{"name":"Prophecies A Warning To The Whole World","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1803__southcott___prophecies_a_warning_to_the_whole_world.pdf","mytitle":"Prophecies A Warning To The Whole World","mylang":"de"}
PROPHECIES.
A Warning to the Whole World,
FROM THE
SEALED PROPHECIES
OF
Joanna Southcott,
AND OTHER
Communications given since the Writings were
opened on the 12th of January, 1803.
I Shall now lay before the public some parts of the sealed
Writings, which were given into the hands of three Ministers
and four other Gentlemen, that came from different parts of the
kingdom to Exeter, on December 28th, 1801, to examine into
the truth of what they had heard; and as the Clergy of Exeter
refused to join them to search out the truth, I was ordered, by
the Spirit, to give into the hands of the>e gentlemen my sealed
writings, on the 5th of January, 1S02, who had acted with Solo­
mon's wisdom — as it is “ the wisdom of a king to search out
a matter/' This advice was given to him who asked wisdom
from the Lord, and the Lord granted his reauest: — but, as
tome say, there are wiser men now in the world than Solomon
was, let them produce a iwer* Solomon had his wisdom from
the Lord f WMiow “ every man's ways are clean in his own
eyes ; " and, like Babel's builders, so divided in their faith and
belief of the Scriptures, that one pulls down what another builds
up, and they have thrown Religion info confusion ; but God
is a God of order, not of confusion — and his command is, that
every thing shall be done “ decently and in order. " Therefore
he hath commanded ray writings to go forth to convince man­
kind of the folly of this age, which is now come, as is foretold
in the Scripturefc. Men are departed frqm the faith once deliver­
ed to them by the prophets, apostles, atm from the Lord of life
and glory, bringing in false doctrine, heresy, and schism. I
must call to your remembrance what erroneous doctrines and
blasphemy have been published against the Bible within these few
yean past, denying the Lord that bought them, and how full
our land is of Deists and Atheists. Numbers I am well informed
have burnt their Bibles in so shocking a manner, that I tremble
to relate it. So all that is foretold m holy writ is now fulfilling
by the different desses of men in ibis Age. And as Satan has
worked in the hearts of the people to fulfil one pai t, so the Lord,
according to bis promise, has sent his Spirit to fulfil the other— ,
that ho may not destroy the whole race of mankind in his anger.
Digitized by Google
and bum them up in his sore displeasure. But know first, he
will make up his jewels; and these are his jewels, who shall say
one to another, “ What hath the LORD saidf And what hath
he spoken concerning u s? ” These are the People who shall tread down
the wicked as ashes under their fe e t: as you will see in the fol­
lowing book, who is the wicked one, and how he is to be trodden
down. For now the Lord is coming like Jehu — “ who is on my
side } Who ?” For Jezebel is a type of the Devil; and Satan will
be cast down as Jezebel was, and no more left of him than waa
of her. Therefore I must entreat my readers to weigh deep my
books with the Bible, as the fulfilment of both is even at the door.
Survey your land, sec how all stands,
And how all men appear ;
Then you must know, a God must go
For to reclaim all here.
For there's no man on earth can stand,
If he in fury break ;
They've burnt the Bible in this land ;
Where must the ashes sink ?
If Abel's blood for vengeance stood.
And CHRIST'S doth stand the same,
A day of vengeance in his heart;
Then tremble at the flames.
When men begin the whole to burn,
Shall not the Lord awake ?
His vengeance on the tempter turn,
Or, our Land stands at stake,
To suffer men for to go on
And burn the word of god :
Against our Land, their guilt must stand,
And fear his flaming rod.
The world by water once was drown'd,
But fire it now must come;
The way the Bible men destroy'd,
Must all turn back again.
So all weigh deep, the Lord doth speak—
For all's before his throne :
And for to know, that it is so,
His Spirit Is come down.
So I'll end here, and say no more ;
Let Solomon be found,
For to appear and try all here —
It is the law of God ;
And if you now refuse to hear,
Then tremble at his rod.
JOANNA SOUTHCOTT.
Tbo Second Edition, printed by Marchont and Galabin, in December, 131V
from the First Edition, printed in March, 1803.
Entered at Stationent Hall*
Digitized by Google
*
TUB
FIRST BOOK'
OF TUB
SEALED PROPHECIES.
THIS is the Beginning n f J O A N N A's Book, after the
Proving the Truth o f her W ritings, which commenced on the
Wk, andfinished on the 1g th ef January, 1603, being Seven
Days, having t u s unanimous D ecision o f Twenty-
three Persons, appointed by Divine Command, as well a t
Thirty-five others that were then present, and who a il signed
their Names, that her Calling was o f God»
W HEREAS the learned, and self-righteous, have
condemned me for an impostor, for saying, “ th £
Loan saith,” when they affirm he has'not spoken;
now let them bring forth their arguments, and
shew their strong Reasons, why they pretend to
judge of a thing they know nothing about, and
why they judge in the dark, when they were in*
vited to judge in the day-Ught, and have the
perfect truth laid before them. Such judgment
is throwing aside both the Law and the Gospel.
Let men capable of reason attend to reeson.
Should a man fondemn the Bible who never read
it through ?forming hisjudgment upon a few pages -
of it, and condemning the whole? Would you not
be ready to condemn such aone? You would answer,
yes: you was in duty bound to blame him; and
1 answer I am in duty bound to blame all men,
that condemn my writings, without coming to the
clear light, truth, and knowledge of them. Ye
have judged the Lord another such as yourselves:
and was your judgment true, all men must perish,
for ever: and your Bibles must be denied, if you
A 8 ■
Digitized by Google
deny the promiseof God made at the creation. In
the 3d chapter of Genesis, there, is the promise of
man’s redemption: and our Saviour said, “ L6, I'
c o m e to no t h y w i e l , O G od.” Now let them
tell what was the mil of God when he created the
man and the woman; and then I will answer all men.
Now let it be known to all men, that near twenty
pounds were expended in advertising in the public
papers, to invite the Clergy to come and judge
for themselves and their flocks; but this invitation
was refused, and no one came forward but such
^vho wished for C h r i s t ’s K in g d o m to be esta­
blished, and Satan’s to be destroyed, and his power
to be taken from the face pf the earth, and receive
the curse pronounced against him in the fall. This
was the truth of my writings in 1796 and 1797.
And in 1794, the promise given to me was, that
Satan should be cast, but that he must first receive
his sentence from .men; and that the woman must
first BE MADE FREE FROM THE FALL BY HAN,
before man’s redemption could take place, or the
promise made to me be fulfilled; for men must be
workers with God, and God with men. And the
Eromise of the Lord was then made to me that
e would work in the hearts of his people to do
it,—as you will see in this book. Every page was
written according to the dates therein mentioned.
Now, tell me, O ye worldly-wise men, how this
came to pass, that no man appeared to condemn
me ? and the fifty eight persons who were then
present all joined with me in hand and heart, to
claim the promise for Satan’s destruction r As I
was foretold, in 1794, he would not have one per­
son present, when my writings were proved, who
would befriend him as Pilate did our Saviour; for
P i l a t e sought to release the Son of G od; but
here was not one present, w'ho wished to release
the devil by keeping silence, or refused signing
their names for his destruction. Now will any
4
Digitized by Google
man, endowed With a grain of reason* say, that
Satan -is come, as Judas did, to. hang himself?
.Then I am happy to say, there was not one
present who would cut him down, and thereby
attempt to save Him. Here I may seem to be
jesting with those who are so simple as to imagine
that Satan has brought on “
his trial, for his own -
destruction. But some may say, if Satan's sen­
tence is past, and this calling is of God, he must
be immediately cut off from the face of the earth.
I answer, no.—Read the 12th Chapter of Reve­
lation: after h
’e is cast, who is the great accuser
of mankind, he is there described to come down
. in great Wrath against the Woman; because he
knoweth he hath but a short space to gather in
those who will not turn to and unite .with God,
but have the image of the beast in their foreheads.
It is in the 20th Chapter of Revelation he is
mentioned to be chained down.—And now I shalL
give you the meaning of pur dear Redeemer's
words, Luke xxiii. 31. “If'this be done in the
green tree, what shall be done in the dry ?”—be­
ginning from a parable of a child being left in a
house by bis parents and fprhid to open the door
toany; but a thief prevailed over the unsuspecting
innocence of the child to open the door; so he en­
tered and robbed the house. Perfectly so was it
with our first parents: for, like the child, they
were betrayed—and like the child they acted; and
thus they were robbed of all true happiness: but
help was laid upon one that was mighty, to bind
the thief, and free the child.
June6th, 1797*. the G reen and D ry T r e e .
“ Now hc*Tc*s the type, for it is great;
This was the state of Man:
There nothing was, f did create*
But 1 gave to his hand.
* The Woman free 1 gave to he,
As perfect as a child :
because that she did come from he; - *
5
Digitized by Google
Which way was she beguilM }
Till Satan there did her ensnare,
For to unbolt the door,
To pluck the fruit, she simply took,
And gave to Adam there.
The Child he blam’d, and me he sham'd,
When he saw all was gone:
I said no more I’d trust him there;
But to the purpose come :
I*d turn the key another way,
As my estate was there;
No Child I'd trust, till paid the Cost—
And Manhood must appear.
So Manhood see, and wedded be; ,
For I've not lost the whole;
The Child shall gain the victory—
*
The Foe shall stand the poll.
Lot Men appear, as fathers here,
And now behold their Child.
The mystery now I mean to clear;
For I did Man beguile;
Till wonders here do so appear, •
As it in Heaven begun.
Then wonders see, for so’twill be— '
The Mother and the Son.
Then Cain must come in Abel's form,
And Satan come in Cain's,
And then relent, like Cain repent;
The mysteries lie behind.
If he will not; now see the stroke—
Close to the Woe there’s three; *
The wonders were in Heaven wrought*
And down td^Barth must be.
For this 1 say must pass away,
And a new earQ* begin;
'Tis time for men like Fathers stand,
And paradise you’ll win.
Your Daughters see your Wives to be.
The partners of your souls;
The woman see—now stand like sh<*,
Then you may sure stand all.
Like you I'll blame, like yon I'll shame
The simple sons of men ;
Until you say another way,
'Twas Satan laid the gin.
Then he that laid may be dismay'd—
And draw the Circle there;
6
* The Woes produced are, 1st. the Deluge; id. the Destruction of Jerusalem
and the Dispersion of the Jews, which followed the Death ofChnst; and thej
rot Woe is for the Powersof Darkness and their Adherents on earthy
Digitized by Google
7
And then look back to what was wrote,
When it did so appear.
Now thou dost see the destiny,
Satan roust stand in fear—
From types and shadows you may see
How close thy comings here.
If from thy head thou this hadst done,
As ignorant men might think,
Then Satan he would act like thee,
And pull thee on the brink.
Now here's the dart shall pierce the heart
Of Satan to relent;
Or else, I say, another way
He never will repent,
Until his Crown do tumble down;
Now see the Sceptre there;
Upon his head it must be found—
The dart hangs hovering here.
His head is down, he'll lose his crown,—
The Branch is from the Tree,—
The Woman must him store cut down,
When men thy writings see:
Like the French land doth Satan stand,
He shall srise no more.
Can he get free ? the Circle see,
I'll sway the Sceptre there.
To act like man I'll now begin,
My Parents' honout due 5
But now the victories I shall win;
The Brides are in my view;
Like David here I'll now appear,
Aud bid the Brides to come:
My hand is freely offer'd here;
1
*
1
1have more Brides than man—
I'll none refuse, for all I'll choose,
That give their hands to mb :
Tis time to publish now the bans,
Or licence bring to mb,
That may abound, and make the sound—
Thb Marriage o r the Lamb.
His hand and heatt may now be found
To wed all that will come.
The Harlots here may now appear, •
For 1 shall all embrace:
The Jews and Gentiles both I'll clear,
They both came from one race i
Digitized by Google
And one they'll be, you ail shall set
My royal palace near;
My Brides may come and wear ihe crown ;
For 1 shall triumph here.
So don’t delay, and do nt>t stay;
For dangtrou9 it might prove—
Fast as you’ll be wedded to me,
So fast you’ll s£e roy love.
My Crown shall be, you all sball see,
Deck’d with such beauties here;
When Satan’s crown does tumble down,
Then mine shaft sifre stand fair.
He drew the darf, topieice the heart
•Of those wht> were .his friends:
Because the sinner he'll make sm arts
For there bis vengeance ends,
Till he’ll fall down the second time—
The war must-end in hell;
For man shall be as strong as he—
My mercies none can tell,
Though judgments here must now appear,
My strange works to go on ;
But alj my attributes I’ll clear,
And mercy sure shall come.
Now draw the circle as ’ti* found —
The woes around the head ;
From types and shadows Til go on,
Like man I now shall lead,
Who said the 9 Flag it was hung out,
In token man to try;
And now like man I am surely come —
The black ting let him see,
Is now put here, a9 doth appear,!
For Satan I shall try ;
His casting down I mean to dear —
He’s sentenc’d every day:
As Pomeroy said, I now will plead,
And man the judge must be:
Now all tby writings call to mind ■
—
Man surely must appear:
The Saints must judge the earth, you’ll find,
And judge if 1 am not clear,
To justify now from on high,
To chain the rebel down ;
As every sin from him is found ;
Then now let men appear;
For to men’s judgment 1 did submit*
/
a For the Trial ofPatker for Matfay on board the Fteet.
♦ A BlackFlag bung oat is drawn in Joanna’s writings.
8
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
And did their sentence bear*
Until they nail'd uiy bauds and feet.
And pierced me with a spear.
Now Satan here must so appear.
To have his sentence passcl.
The mysteries all I mean to clear,
From every age that’s past:
Pharaoh you see a type of he,
A .type of Satan there,
Untii he cable to the Red Sea,
And closely followed there.
Now as a man to him. DI come ;
His heart I harden’d there ;
But why ’twas so you all shall kno\f»
I’ll make the mysteries clear.
Pharaoh had beeu a man of sin ;
No pity In him lay ;
With cruelty he did go on,
And all my words gainsay.
.Therefore that man 1 harden’d oh,
To bring the same on he,
As he before bad surely done:
But here’s the mystery —
He was a type, and it was great,
Satan I placed as man ;
Then the green -tree let all mien see,
And to the dry tree come ;
For the green tree, you all shall see,
Man’s likeness it doth bear;
And still doth grow, you all do knew —
Some fruit you’ll gather there ;
For good or bad it will be had, —
Some fruit is on the tree;
And to some use do all produce,
While life in it you see.
I’ll make it clear, now to appear :
Though puzzling thou dost write,
I know fbe man that'is so near.
Whom thou brought’st to thy sight,
Who lies in bed, and life seems fled,
But yet he is not gone.
Some fruit from he you all will see;*
And to the purpose come ;
If he be there a prisoner,
Some fruit it doth afford,
To try the hearts of other men,
And make them like their Lord:
• Joe Cox, who was bed-ridden five yean, a labouring man near B i­
ster—Joannawasputtied ia her mind It findout what use thisman could o( be
tosociety.
9
I
Digitized by L i O O Q i e
Mercy to shew, as I did do;
'Then sure some fruit 19 there :
The bitter herbs, you all do know,
Gbod fruit do often bear:
Because the use it doth produce,
Is useful unto man.
Now when the sinner runs his course,
(To reason HI begin)
You have a law you all do know,
The fnurderer must die;
And he that steals does seldom fail,
But law for justice cries.
Then sure the tree still green must be,
And feel the fatal blow :
You lay the axe unto the tree;
He's green you all will know:
His blood will run in every vein*
When dangers do appear:
Once more I say the tree is green,
Whatever fruit he bears.
A warning take, behold the stake,
And see the end of*
sin : .
The sinner's heart doth often shake,
And grieve for what he’th done.
Now here's the tree, you all may see.
Where vengeance close doth come;
Now to the dry must vengeance fly,
And see what is in him.
The natural branches I’ve not spar'd,
That do my Image bear ;
And the wild olive, that is green,
Doth surely stand in fear.
So now if man the victim come, *
And sorrow doth deject,
The dry tree now is hastening on
To meet his awful fate.
For he is dry, I'll tell thee why,
He hath no heart to feel;
He loves to hear the sinners cry,
His heart's a perfect hell;
It is so dry, the fire doth fly,
His heart does always burn;
The sinners’ hearts he warms thereby,
When he at a distance comes;
But when that near he doth appear,
He'll scorch them in the flame,
Until h? heats the hearts of men,
To bum them with the same.
So in this hell do sinners dwell 3
10
Digitized by Google
i l
One part you may see here:
The sinner doth his,master shew;
His image he doth bear: 1'
Where Satan strong you in man,
All cruelty you see ; -
The murderer in biro is seen;
There's no sin frightens he;
He starts at none, but still goes on,
And dead to every cry,
Till vengeance doth unto him come;
Then here the tree seems dry.
Because that here he doth appear
A picture sure of hell': ,
The master and the servant, sure,
Do in one likeness dwell. *
So now you see the mystery,
How I did paint them here.
Their hearts do bum like the dry tree;
For every fuel's here.
Then now I'll come to make it burn,
And shew the reason why :
The Green Tree was not spar'd by man;
Then I'll not spare the Dry.
If I came here,'their trial bore,
And did to it submit,
I bid the dry tree now come near,
And tremble at your feet.
For every sin by him was done,
Ever since Adam's fall:
When Satan's chain I did let free,
Earth did resemble bell.
The martyrs here let them appear,
Or call them to your view :
Let every murder'd man appear,
And now be judged by you.
What they did feel your hearts can't tell;
Yet you'm&y judges be:
And every murderer came from bell;
And now the end he'll see:
His sentence eome, '(must be from man,
Before I'll cast him down.
Did I submit at Pilate's seat,
And stoop to bear bis sound ?
From whence it came to mk was known
But this I did conceal;
For Satan must that way unthrone—
The mysteries I'll reveal: %
I felt the dart, that pierc'd my heart,
Wh*n I the trial bore; ‘
Digitized by
But vengeance was in my heart*
To turn oil him the spear.
The sinner free can never be *
l ill Satan he has cast:
lie’ll stand the trial now like Mt—
Man must his sentence pass,
That blasphemy was spoke by be*
And judge thy written hand.
Therefore, I say, at Plymtree,
I did let go his ciiaiu:
Thy writing* there the men must see,
And judge Crum whence they came*
Such words to pen thou trcmbled’st then*
And tpan shall tremble too :
Why do I let the rebel reign ?
These words are spoke by you;
And so by them the same most come;
Did Satan lau^h at up,
When 1did submit at Pilate's scat ?
I'll make hkn stoop that way.
Was it for man that I came down
To die upon the tree ?
The clamourous tongues of men were found-
It was for blasphemy ;
For blasphemy they nailed m e ;
Then blasphemy is here:
For Satan hath blasphem'd me strong
In thy writings here. ..
And let them see the mystery,
What thou hast penn'd before:
And see if thou no judge can'st be,
What different spirit's here.
Therefore bis words I ndade thee pen;
For I well-know the day
That Satan's boasting it must end :
Men's hearts I mean to try.
1 shall appear and try them here ;
And let them stand for me,
Prove Satan is a murderer here,
And full of blasphemy ;
Then murderers here I mean to clear,
Like Pilate I'll begin:
Will Satan find he hath a friend
To prove him a just man ? *
No fault in me did Pilate see:
Will Satan find such friend ?
The Judge and Jury let him see,
On whom he doth depend.
I tell him plain, hc’tb not a man *
13
Digitized by C a O C K ^ l c
That will support l»is cause:
The jury do the sentence bring,
'Tis granted by your laiws.
So ’tis with roan do all contend,
Of spirits good and bad;
And man the sufferer hath been
Ever since Noah’s flood.
I swept away, that fatal day.
The world was full of sin;
And now I'll act another way;
For to the root I’ll come*
As he is dry the fire must fly,
For what shall 1do here ?
What will be done, will soon be knowh:
Now like the Jews begin
To clamour hard for Satan’s blood,
As they did then for min b.
To cast him down be every found:
u His blood be ou our head:
u Wc do not fear what shall come here,
But strike the rebel dead,
Christ’s Kingdom come, be every sound”—
I hear tbee say Amen:
Then first this Nation I shall clear,
If they like thee go on.
What I shall clear I’ll tell thee here,
Their loads I’ll take away:
My yoke is easy they shall bear ;•
My goodness they shall see;
My burden’s light, I’ll clear the fight,
And make ail foes to fly;
Bring my Disciples to thy sight,
Satan shall act like them.” *
Ia the year 1796, I dreamt that I went into a
shop to buy some gowns, with a lady who had left
her money at home. I said I would engage to pay
the money for what she bought, if they would trust
her; if not, we would leave the shop. To this they
consented; as they said they knew me.
Simple as this dream may appear, the following
answer, given by the Spitit, is deep and weighty.
“ How hasty dost thou write thy dreams ?
For patience thou hast none;
• Whenthe Disciples fled from the Qsrden of GeUisemane.
13
Digitized by Google. ^
14
To know the meaning is thy view,
And leave one part alone.
But as impatient thou art grown.
. Til instant answer thee :
Unto the world thou art unknown;
But not unknown to mk ;
And thee, men say they do not know?.
But me they don't deny; „
And to men's conscience let them go—
Their Saviour is their cry.
Now as to men thou art unknown,
Thy Bondsman I will be;
And every debt I'll surely pay,
If men will now trust thee. .
The letter put in Pomeroy's hand,
It was a debt of trust;
But when the debt he did demand,
Thegrave hath paid the first.*
Then as the grave hath paid the one
That to my friend was given,
L^al! the seals come to his hand*
Pll surely pay the Seven.f
But if he say he knows my name,
f Then on my words rely ;
I'll never put my friends to shame ;
But every debt I'll pay.
But thee, I say, he doth not know*
Thou art a stranger there;
But keep my memory in view ;
Will he deay me here ?
Then all the goods I'll surely leave,
If credit 1 have none ;
And to another house I'll cleave;
The gold is still my own.
So perfect like thy dream I'll do,
Thou art unknown to man,
But not to m e; it can never be —
Thy nature, nor thy name;
The woman's honour thou'lt defend,
To give my perfect word;
And so can I rely on thee—
Thou wilt not cheat thy Lord;
And in my name thou'st forg'd no bond.
But I was present there:
. —— — KTHucw^put intoMr. Pomeroy'sband*
came to.pats at the end of that
Digitized by Google
So now of mb let all demand '
The bonds they wish to clear.
For let the debts be e’er so great*
I did them all approve;
In mb they’ll find there’s no deceit* '
They are but debts of love.
So now the debts let man demand*
And arrest M£ by their prayer;
Then they shall see the promis’d land ;
I’ll make them sons and heirs.
So Tike the serpent now be wise*
And hold me to my word;
I will no longer now disguise*
If they’ll constrain their Lord.
So perfect* as the days of old*
I’ll now to all appear: '
I know their doubting hearts are cold*
Nor know that I am here.
For idle tales they have believ’d
Did from the woman come ;
But Mary* and Joanna too*
Musi unto all be known ;
Though ether women there were there*
Whose names they are not penu’d.
Let Jews and Gentiles both appear—
The Bride must crown the end.
For if like man I do go on*
As very man to be; .
I sure shall to the purpose come*
And strongly cleave to thee.
So wonder now and stand amas’d*
Ye fools and slow of heart;
For on the Woman you may gase*
But 1 shall take her part.
For all her friends she surely left*
To follow my command;
Then to her now I’ll strongly cleave: —
She’th chose the better part.
Last night did they enjoy their plqy*
Which was a pleasing clream ;
But mark what Woolland said to thee —
This very night is thine*
For to enjoy thy holiday;
And it thou shalt enjoy;
1 ’H wipe the tears from off thy eyes*
' And all thy foes destroy.
And can it be (is said by thee)
Such bliss for to obtain t .
15
Digitized by Google
i tell thee still, like Mary sit,
And thou shalt see the end.
But Minifie would have cheated thee,
^s the this night began :
She said the fire was below;
But mark, when thou didst come
The truth to know, thou there didst go,
No heat could there be found.
And every man would have found it so,
If ttiou*dst pbey'd their sound.
So now thy friends thou’st not obey’d,
Nor was it in thy power;
And thou shalt find thou’st not misled,
But see the glorious hour/’-
16
The following communication was given to
Joanna, on old Twelfth Day, January 17, 1797,
from a parable of a man,' who boiled his eggs'and
put them into the hen-nest again, with a private
mark upon them, thinking to discover the thief
who robbed them.
Simple as this may appear to the world, I was
ordered to write from i t ; as the Lord would spiri­
tualize it to me. When I went up stairs I had but
little ink left, and was obliged to wring the silk
in the ink-stand to get the ink out—and was an­
swered in the following manner:
Now III begin from what thou’st done,
And make the mystery clear ;
I’ll surely wring the dregs of men,
As thou hast wrung it here.
Thou know’st the ink-stand it seem’d dry.
And thou no ink could’st gain ;
Till thou didst wring the silk therein;
And so will I wring men.
For ink I’ll have, my (lock '.I'll save,
That will obey my call;
And now I’ll come to act like maty
And so Til try them all.
Digitized by Google
I’ll put the mark, though in the dark,
As men shall not discern;
And prove, to see their honesty,
I’m acting just like man;
Deep was the thing that be had done
To try his servant there;
And can’t I act as deep as he,
To prove the matter clear? •
For though he boil’d his eggs to spoil.
The thing was curious done ;
Andif I boil mankind to spoil,
I’ve put the mark on them.
Therefore the thief I will find out,
And know where he doth lie;
I’ll watch ifiy brood, and make them good,
Though some 1*Hbod them dry.
But yet the shell I’d never spoil,
*For there thy pen goes deep;
There’s none shall see they bocfed be.
The shell 111never break.
So if the thief should cotne and steal,
He’ll have no better lot
Than be that stole rhy master’s eggs—
T is deep what thou hast wrote.
To tell my name it is high time,
I see my nest*deeay 3
Therefore L*ay I shall begin,
As man began this day.
I’ll mind no cost, nor fear no loss.
But to the purpose come ;
lam resolv’d to catch the thief, *
As man hath now begun.
Now trifling as these lines appear,
There’s weight in every word;
’Tis come to my appointed time,
That men mast know their Lord.
But will they say they do know mb ?
Then let them all appear
And tell mb how they can explain*
That man e’er knew mb here.
But if they say they this con do,
My Bible tney deny;
And bring the leaves all to their view,
Then man must surely die.
The day ha eat forbidden fruit;
Bat did he die that 4a/T—
Then let tbe sons of men be mute,
I’ll taketheirguilt away.
*
17
Digitized by Google
By Adam's fill, 'tb known to all,
That death was fix'd for man $
The serpent was to lick the dust,—
The curse was fix'd on him;
And ofthe dust the man was made,
And so that dust did d ie;
He felt the dart come to his heart,
Tbatifeok his life away ;
And dead in sin he did begin
To moulder into dust;
For he no longer liv'd in me,
As 1 made him at first.
So here the man was truly dead
To all perfection here:
But can you say his life was fled ?
Then make the mystery clear.
If you deny it wasnot so,
At thou these lines hast penn'd;
Then tell ine how they'll make it true,
And bring it to the end.
He liv’d in me, let all men see,
Till tainted by die fell;
Then, dead in sin, he did begin
To bring the guilt on all.
And this was by the woman's hand,
As every man declar'd;
And all the blame was cast on me,
To give the woman there.
Then she and I the cause will tnr,
And cast the blame on man ; *
For who hath copied after her ?
Or does as she hath done ?
Is not my word upon record \
Whoe'er doth come to me,
In no ways will I cast them out;
Ah, how do all men see 1
The gates of hell shall not prevail
Against my children here.
That do rely and trust in me,
Whom I have bought so dear.
Firm as the heavenly pillars stand,
So firm are my decrees;
For to fulfil thy written hand,
All men do now obey.
Then stand or fall, to hear your call,
Like Adam now begin;
And her obey, like him that day,
And Paradise you’ll win.
18
r jitized by Google
So now regain, ye sons of mett,
I’ll make your mountains strong $
The sword I left in Paradise
Shall bring you back again.
For there’s the tree, let all men see,
Preserved for your sake;
The darning sword it is my wO&d, *
Shall make the serpent shakflU
And to the root the axe must come;
Then let the root appear:
For Satan he the root must be,
That did beguile her there ;
And for her he did dig the pit,
Butin it he shall fell;
For now HI stand the woman's friend.
She richer blam’d mb at all;
But on the serpent cast the blame,
And so I’ll cast it there.
So as to man, he stands alone
To plead his trial here; .
Then now what trial can they plead ?
What arguments appear ?
The simple woman is misled*
Or man doth greatly err,
To say ’tis she; bow can this be l
Then I can nothing know:
Nor no man, by divinity,
Can prove my Bible true*
The heavens must a curtain be*
To screen things from iny eye ?
My Spirit it must sleep, like men,
And have no wings to fly;
And all my honour must be gone.
To leave mankind alone;
And like thy pen they must fall down—
Their ransom cannot come.
For if’tis done by thy own head.
Let all their heads appear
And judge if I, as welt as thee,
Don’tknow thy writings here.
Then David’s words can ne’er be true—
“ I see your private ways;
“ And know what from your hearts will go,
“ Before it comes t’ your eyes.
" Your yet unutter’d words I know,
“ Your private footsteps see;
" Then to what mountains will you go*
u To screen yourselves from
b 2
19
9
Digitized by L . o o Q l e
If this is by the woman done,
Fbr to assume the Bride;
Then I mostbe not more than man#
A n d jM the hariot hide;
As m xffim en have often done,
Heflfamour to maintain,
And jj^H nke she, they married b e;
TlMR&th been done by men;
But when the writings they demand,
• The truth cannot appear \
The children ail must bastards stand,
And others be the heirs.
Then now awake, ve sons of men,
And see your bibtes d e a r:
For bastards ye must surely be, -
If an impostor's here.
For now to reason FH begin:
As I am God and Man $
The Woman I will never screen,
That dares assume my name,
Unless I did it thus command ; •
My honour is too high.
Bring me the Woman this shall do,
And she shall surely die;
For while her senses I do spare.
And do her life prolong;
I sure must be as bad as she,
To let my honour down.
If in her head, or in he* heart,
Did these vain thoughts arise;
And from herselfthese things impact.
Such words to make men wise ;
When I did never them command.
Or inspir’d her So to do 5
I'd give her to the tempter1
^ hand,
For she must be his due.
For in the heavens I'd cease to be,
Ere I would let her breathe,
And still to say she writes by m8 ,
Mankind for to deceive.
$Iow many men have her obey'd.
As she did them command ?
Because she told them *twas from me,
Requir’d it from their hands.
.Then now I bid them to look tleep,
_And see who they obey'd; *
And if they'll prove that it is mb,
I'll break the serpent's head. *
20
Digitized by C a O C K ^ l c
Ami so the ransom’d ofthe Load*
May now in triumph turn ;
And you shall find with one acoordt
Tlie tears ofjoy shall come.”
The Rider and Horse, forming a body of stars.
A Dream of Joanna’s, Octolro 17, 1802.
I dreamed I was looking at thn *ky towards the
South, and saw a number of stars collected together
in the perfect form of a horse. There was another
collection of stars in the perfect form of a man,
riding the horse.—The horse and rider a complete
body of stars, that were passing swiftly through
the air. Just behind them there appeared fire
working in the element; at which I greatly mar­
velled, and desired others to look, who were
equally astonished as well as myself.
Here is the Answer of the Spir it to the
above Dream.
“ Now I will answer thee this dr£am;
The horse and rider thou saw^st plain*
Riding together through the air,
And nought to thee but stars appear’d,
Then now they’ll see my starry crown ;
The horse is men, that will abound*
UntO together they will come,
In perfect form, to fc>inas one;
And like the horse they’ll be complete:
But I am the Man thereon to sit,
Because my heart shall sit on all;
And strong my Spirit now shall foil
On all that join me in the throng:
And, like the horse, they will become
Their Master’s burden new to boar*;
The mock offools they first must bear;
But then Che rider M will see
Fulfil the words I’ve spoken by thee*
The horse and rider both as one ;
Because as stats-they both wore seen $ ■
Then sure the?end you aU wiU see*
That roan is made joint heir w ith* I ;
31
k
Digitized by Google
Because my Spirit shall descend
On every man that stands my friend.
And now as stars arise and shine,
To lighten the benighted mind :
And, like the horse, they'll now appear,
To plough my ground with prudent care g
And so to^raw my chariot wheels,
That now are close to all your heels:
Because the rider sat thereon,
And stars alike they all did shine* 1
Then sure as stars must men appear;
Though with the horse I npm compare:
Because men's mockery I bore first.
And so on men it now must burst,
That wish to bear the Cross with me ;
, But soon the Crown they all shall see,
That wish to shine in Jesu's Crown,
The Horse and Rider shall be found.
In perfect union for to join ;
And God and Man alike combine.
Then man the burden now must bear:
But all shall know my Spirit’s here,
On all that do together join,
To bring my glorious kingdom down.
Then God and Man alike they'll see,
Shine bright in heavenly harmony.
And soon my fire it will burn : v
For on the others I'll return,
That will not now obey their call,—
Proclaim my kingdom, one and all*
For now the boughs I’ll all cut down;
Hozanna now must be your sound,
That wish for me in perfect peace,
To make your jarring passions cease.
So now thy dream H r end it here,
And let another to appear ;
. Where thou the serpent so did'st kill;
And man would eat that poison still.’'
December 12, 1796.
Seven Stars coming to Fourteen.
I dreamed I was floating through the air, and at
last came to a strange city. Just as 1 came there,
I thought I saw the sun either rising or setting;
it being a little above the horizon, with sparks like
22
Digitized by L s O O Q i e
as
stars descending from it. I then thought I went
up the street, and heard a woman complaining of
tne fatal times; and I was then caught up again
\ into the air, and saw the moon in a strange man*
ner. I then looked at the stars, and saw them
close together in a small compass. I said, you
talk of waiting till seven stars come to fourteen—
^
and now they are come to that number.
The Answer to the Dream, by the Spirit.
*
f Now stop thy hand, I’ll answer here.
The Spirit’s surely in the air,
That with thee doth converse:
But I sbiH make the mystery clear,
And bring it so to pass.
Out ofthe sun the stars shall come,
And shortly fly abroad:
Their brightness surely will appear,
For men shall know their God*
As to the moon, it must be known,
It strangely will be seen :
But that 111 tell another day.
For thou can’st mind no farm*
The seven stars are post before; *
Now ’tis to fourteen come;
This is a hidden mystery,
That surely will be known.
And all together they will meet:
If one map’s wisdom should shine bright.
And he shbuld see it d ear;
Can one man bring the truth to light ?
They'd say, that he did err.
As all my prophets were denied.
And mb they did betray*;
Now though die field is open’d wide,
They’d stumble ip the way.
But when the stars together come.
And they do all agree;
I say the mystery will be known.
Why I have stumbled thee.
Then every mystery will be known,
When to the purpose’t oomes j
Digitized by Google
Unhidden stafs will then appear,
• Will surely make fourteen.
For though they are in heaven plac’d,
There are seven more behind,
That now are hid from every eye*
' And that mankind will find.”
24
A Communication given to J oakna, May 27tb,
1796, concerning the chosen men who were to
prove her Writiugs.
*
* Arise, and wiite, my Spirit’s here,
And i will answer all thy prayers;
Mark thou thy fan, see how it stands,
And how the seals appear.
The cross is put on men’s weak hands ;
But I shall bring it here,
And every seal is put between ;
And mark what is within.
. Black are the seals to guard it there— .
To reason I’ll begin:
And now the floors I’ll surely purge,
(Whose tan is in his hand;)
Thy writings true HI make them know,
And let them understsmd,
That perfect as thy fan appears,
So perfect all was done,
When on the cross at Calvary,
I gave my life for man.
The cross was red, all stain’d with blood,
While in the midst 1 stood;
The spear did then my side so pierce,
And stain’d it with my blood.
I was took down; now mark the crown,
With black ’tis sealed there:
And now, unto the sons of men,
I’ll make it black appear.
. And to the other side thou go,'—
Like seals both ranks do stand ;
A simple thing when this was done,
Now by the woman’s hand.
* The seals, the same, it must be known,
Do perfect so appear;
And perfect so it all shall stand,
Before I’ve ended here.
Another day I’ll tell thee more,
And deeper things explain :
.«
k Digitized by Google
But for-the present I’ll end here—
And think upon thy dream ;
For down thou’st fallen, to man thou'st call’d;
Assistance he refos’a ;
Then thou jump’st off,* 'tis known to alj,
And stood upon thy shoes.
On thy own feet, the mystery*9 great,
And there thou*lt surely stand.
Wilt thou go back? Am 1 now slack?
And trust to men’s weak band ?
They’ll surely come, as he hath done:
Thy Jury cannot stay;
When to the purpose all do come,
Thou’ll surely go that way.
Thy journey through I bid thee go :
Thou can’st not tarry here :f
The rest not come, it shaU be known,
I’ll make the mystery clear.
The feast preparing is at hand—
The garden door uobpit:
For in they'll rush, by my command,
But on thee none take hold.
'Tis not with thee as 'twas with me—
No enemy is there:
One look'd, thy dangers for to sea­
l’ll make the mystery clear."
25
J oa n h a ’s Prayer on the morning of the Fast Day,
February 28, 1795.
I was in earnest prayer for the fulfilment of the
Prophecies made to m e; and praying, that I might
know the will of God and obey it ; that his word
might be a light to my feet, and a lanthorn to my
paths; that the God of truth would lead me into
all truths; that I might be guided by his Spirit,
directed by his wisdom, kept ny his power, and in
all things Know the will of God, and do it ; that f
might drink deeper and deeper into his Spirit, be
made perfect in righteousness, perfect in holiness,
and perfect in obedience, and in every good word
and work. In this manner I was entreating the
• Alludingto* dram ofJoanna's. t At Exeter.
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
Lord for bis grace and assistance, both for myself
and the nation, and concluded with our dear Re­
deemer's Prayer. As I was saying it, the clock
begin to strike, and^s I said the last word, Amen,
the clock struck the last stroke of twelve. 1 know
not why I am to write out particulars, but 1 was
commanded to do it. In the morning when I was
in prayer, the clock struek seven' soon after I be­
gan ; I went to church without tasting any thing,
as I was commanded; it being the command of
God and the king to fast on such occasions. I was
pressed to eat, as I had staid up, and they were
afraid it would hurt my health; but I refused, as I
knew I was forbid. I was very faint in church, for
want of something; and the thoughts of the fa­
mine afflicted me greatly. This made me the more
earnest in prayer in the church, that the Lord
would have pity on the people, and accept their
humble petitions before him ; when these words
came to me: “ My ear is not heavy, that I cannot
hear, nor my eye darkened that I cannot see; but
your iniquities have separated between you and
your G od: your sins have caused him to separate
from you: for your hands are defiled with blood,
your fingers with iniquity, yourtongueshave spoken
lies, vour lips have uttered perverseness; none call­
ed for judgment, and none pleaded for truth.”
These words coming so strongly upon me, threw
me into a flood of tears; and 1 kept my prayer-
book before my eyes, that none might see my sor­
row. I cannot describe the feelings of my heart: I
was affected to see the sanctuary filled with soldiers
and volunteers. When I came out of St. Peter's,
Exeter, I went to the church of Mr. * * *, and
sat in his porch, and heard the sermon there. Both
ministers exhorted the people to repentance, and
shewed them their danger, as they said the enemy
bad got ground. This I thought right; but did not
S6
Digitized by v ^ o o Q i e
brink that either of them shewed it in such lively
cobars as it appeared to me. I was low spirited all
the day: but was ordered to eat meat when I came
to Mr. Woolland’s of Heavitree. In the evening
Mr. Wooliand called us out to see a circle round
the moon, at a great distance from it—
87
Withthree stars on one side of the moon, and one
star on the other. Mr. Wooliand said, we must
observetimes and seasons, and now it is a fast day,
andthe moon is circled like the globe of the world.
The four stars are the four quarters, and three of
thefour were like a compass to compass iu the
world.
“ But in it there*# a doable mystery.
For like a compass did the stars appear,
And in the Seal the four stars they are.
Thesoitbings together, every one must see,
Could never be contriv'd, nor made by thee.
Now make the circle round the moon appear;
Now make the four stars so placed there;
Ibis is the way 1*11 circle all.
That in my compass come;
Justas the moon was circled round,
Just so HI circle man.**
JOANNA’S PRAYER,
On the \6th of January, 1803.
Omy God, for thy own honour and great name,
and for the sake of tny dear Sou, I pray thee, look
down in pity on man, whom thou hast created in
thy likeness, and now avenge thy innocent blood
onthe serpentY head, which is tne devil, that be­
trayed the innocence of the woman at first, and
Digitized by
£8
next entered into Judas to betray; thy dearly be­
loved Son. Pity qian, I pray thee, whose broken
heart could not bear the remorse of his guilty con­
science, but went out and hanged himself; say­
ing, lie had sinned, in that he had betrayed the
innocent blood.
Here I was stopped and answered—
“ Now Joanna stop thy hand,
Fit answer now thy prayer:
For Satan mast the trial stand;
And see my crown stands fair.*
From types and shadows all is plac’d ;
From types at first I spoke;
And they snail see my sa\ ing grace, >
That now thy prayer don’t mock.
For to it every one must sign,
That wish mk to appear;
I further on shall tell 'my mind ;
For Satan’s casting’s here.
The bill is found, now judge the sound;
For friends and foes do stand;
Asthey that judged it came from thee
Do nlame thy written hand.
Such Blasphemy, they say, to pen,
Condemn thy writings there;
I’ll answer now the sons of jnen~
Let Judases take care;
Because yourselves you all will hang
Upon the cursed tree,
If you the serpent don’t condemn,
And bring the guilt on he.
For Judas’s blood the victim stood;
And now look to the man ;
If you like Jl&fos now proceed,
Your awful fate will come;
I say, like his your end must be,
If you the wknancasi;
Then on your heads must ruin be,
A Judas' fate must burst.
But if you say another way,
And like tne thief appear—
u ’Twas Satan dM the whole betray,
MAnd innocence hi here,
u In robes of white—we see the sight,
" How it was first betray’d ;
• Alluding to the crown in this book.
Digitized by Google
“ Wc «ee the wome'aW In white* — 1
When Christ the pir t ‘each,
By my command Urey 90 do standi
And co they must appear;
The Sun of Righteousness is come
Thetf every guilt to dear.
And when the woman’s guilt isfreed,
And on the serpent cast;
Then I like man will next proeeed,
And Paradise shah burst.
I say again, ye sons of men.
Now weigh the matter deep;
Your Maker must the woman free.
Before-your joy can break.
But 1*11 end here, and say no more.
But to the purpose con e;
And now I’Ufelly answer hete.
From all that thou hast done.”
A communication given to Joanna in 1797.
“Let them weigh deep the whole together. It was
in this year (1797) that thou didst write, by my
commaud, the tasting down of Satan; and there
were Two Sevens in the date—the one seven for
the Creation, the other seven for Man’s Redemp­
tion, and to be done in seven days, in the third year
of the new century. And all men shall find the
Tbree-One-God will .now go on conquering and
to conquer, till he hath put down all principalities
and powers, and the workers of darkness in high
places—and the workers of darkness are the devil,
and all his hellish host.
But now I’ll rid him off ||^coast,
And bring a glorious day for man;
And Paradise they may commaud.
But shall I make them #tunk with wine,
Before my fell appointed lime?
My labour they could never do,
To bring the mysteries to men’s view*
Therefore the best wine 1 keep back,
- .Till Satan hath receiv’d the stroke.
And by the Judge ami Jury cast.
They’ll find my Spirit softer burst;
But joy would sooner kill than woe,
If I should let my Spirit go ,
S9
Digitized by Google
Unguarded, like the sons of men,
To Enow that Paradise you’ve won.
No, go, like thee I do appear;
And in the house I tell them here ; *
But at the table thou’lt not sit;
Because this day thy work is great:
And great the work it must appear;
Because the seventh day draws near,
That thou the trial then must stand.
To be condemn*d orfreed by man.
And every man is plac’d by me :
And let the Jury all agree
To speak with an united voice—
u To save the woman is our choice,
“ And let the devil to be cast;”
And then the mysteries all shall burst.
For every victory they shall gain ;
And soon they’ll find I’ll shame all men;
Because my footsteps are behind—
A Cana’s wonder fast they’ll find.
So now for battle all prepare;
My breast-plate is before you here,
And all my armour put you on ; '
And soon the water shall become,
I tell you all, more strong than wine:
That every water-pot shall find.
The water-pots I’ll place as men—
The weakest words at first must come,
Wherewith I first have fill’d their minds ;
But deeper mysteries arc behind;
And then the wine it will appear—
■
The Governor will see it dear.
That I preserv’d it for the last; .
And all shall know the marriage feftst
Doth daily in this house appear;
And every mystery soon Fll d ear;
For here’s tb$ fcpuse that I shall bless.
And here’sthe love that men express,
To one, the other, and the Lord,
And fast my wo*ls will fly abroad.
That every nation soon will see ; •
And they are workers now with me,
To bring my glorious Kingdom down;
For like the Psalm will all be found; .
And every land will bless these men,
Wli6n I have made the mysteries plain.”
30
Digitized by Google
H ere I m u st in tro d u ce th e foU om ing L ttt& s *
A Letter to the Reverend Archdeacon Moohe,
- March 11, 1796.
Rkvekemd Sib,
I must beg pardon with troubling your honour
with a letter.;' but conscience commands me, and
itis of thegreatest importance; and I trust to your
good sense to forgive my weakness, if you judge
me harshly, in relying on spirits invisible; but I
have strong grounds for it. In 1792,1 was told
what was coming upon this nation, and upon the
whole earth; but was judged by all, at that time;
to be out of my senses to believe it; as there was
no appearance of its coming true. I was ordered
to wnte and seal it up in 1792, and I obeyed the
voice. The strange dreims and visions that I had
by night, and the manner they were explained to
me by day, astonished me; as it was beyond all
human reason to fathom the depth. My friends
feared a strange infusion had seized my spirits, and
had told me what was not true, as it was so un­
likely ; but when the truth came on, some believed,
and others did not; though every thing hath
come perfect to my writings in this nation, and in
all other nations; and I have been told ever since
what would happen the ensuing years, and was
ordered to seal it up at Christmas, and not to keep
‘ the seals in my own possession, but leave them
with creditable witnesses; as my near relations
were against my making it public, as they thought
the storm would soon be blpwn over. But I was
told by the Spirit they had prophesied out of their
own hearts, and had seen notning, and their wis­
dom would perish.—Unbelief would not prevent
the truth or my writings. I have found it true.
And now I may say with the prophet of old, “ My
“ heart is broken, and all my bones shake, because
31
Digitized by Google
“ of the Lord, and because of Ins h o lin e ssa s I
am told we have lifted up our hands against him,
and are bringing destruction on ourselves; for,
who is he, who fighteth against the will of the Lord,
and prospereth ? ’
As I am told the antichrist must
fall, and all the gods which they have set np; for,
the Lord hath whetted his sword, and wiH bathe it
deep in the blood of his enemies, for he is now
treading the wine-press of his Father’s wrath: and
will ye tread it against me, sakh the Lord ? There­
fore have we fasted, and the Lord regarded us not.
His ear is not heavy that he cannot hear, nor his
eye darkened, that he cannot see : but we stumble
at the noon-day sun, and if we go on we'shall roar
like bears, and mourn sore like doves, and be in
desolate places like dead men; and we shall bring
the sword, the plague, or the famine, upon our land.
I was ordered to write unto you and five more
worthy divines of God’s word, to lay before you
how every, thing had been revealed to me, and
how the Bible is explained to me from the' begins
liing of the fall of man to the last chapter in the
Revelations, by a Spirit invisible; and these are
the words Spoken to m e:
I have sent my angel unto thee.
To warn all men before;
That of the blood ofevery soul,
That I may now be clear.”
And it is said to me, If I any longer keep silence,
the blood of the nation will be upon my head, and
my end will be fatal. Now, sir, if you will give
yourself the trouble to hear on what foundation I
I build my faith and fear, I shall be happy to wait
upon your honour; but cannot take that liberty
without your approbation. I trust to your good­
ness to answer my letter. Please to direct to Miss
Bird’s, Mantua-maker, Strip-coat Hill.
I remain, with the greatest respect,
Your very humble Servant,
J oanna Southcott.
Digitized by Google
ALetter to the Reverend Chancellor K u tc o m c x *
March 20, 1798.
Revere^ 0 Sir,
I beg pardon for troubling your honour with
another letter, after troubling you with one before.
I was told that your silence to it proceeded front
judging me out of my senses. At this I do not
marvel.—I was jealous for myself, in 1792, being
foretold what was coming on the earth, and ho#
it should come on.— I wrote it; but might say,
with St. Paul, whether in my senses or out of them,
I could not tell what Spirit came so powerfully to
visit me by day and by night. I well knew time
would make mentiou whether it was from the
Lord, or from Satan in disguise; but time hath
ittnoved all doubts from me. The end of all
tilings is at hand, that the scriptures foretell. I
was told, sir, that you judged Prophecies had
ceased ever since our Saviour Was upon the
earth; how then will the Bible be fulfilled to bring
all men to the knowledge of the Lord r It hath
beenconcealed from man ever since the Fall. How
willye explain the 12th chapter of the Revelation ?
The wonders John saw in the heaven were but a
type of what was to come upon the earth. There­
foreI do not marvel, ye all wonder at me. The 19 th
chap, hath the same meaning—no man could ever
explain it, that no imposter might ever arise. The
Sfirit and the Bride have the same meaning.
You may think me vain, sir, to believe these things
shduid be explained to me. They are but types
»nd shadows, for men to know the Bible is fulfill­
ing; and the end is at hand, and men’s hearts will
foil theiU for very troubles, that do not know the
visitation of the Lord. I do not wish you, sir,
to give credit on a sandy foundation, or reiy barely
on my written words; but judge for yourself, as
you are chosen, not of me, but of the Lord. If
c
33
Digitized by Google
h e hath not spoken by me, I must be the greatest
impostor that ever came into the world. But I
trust to your goodness not to judge me so harshly,
nor condemn me unheard; for that is more cruel
than the Jews. Paul was permitted to speak for
hinrsejf before he was condemned ; and shall I say
in a Christian land,I am condemned for the blackest
crimes unheard ? I shall be happy to answer for
myself, if you will permit me to wait on your
honour. Please to send an answer by the bearer.
I am, Rev. Sir, .
With the greatest respect,
Your humble Servant,
J o a n n a S o u t h c o t t .
March 12, 1800.
The following words were spoken to me, in an­
swer to the ministers mocking my writings:
u If they go oo as they've begun,
The nations all may weep ;
Out of my mouth the word is gone,
And I shall it fulfil.
Unless the priests they do awake,
Your nation I shall chill
* With sore distress, to wound your breast,
When harvest doth appear,
By sun or rain to hurt your grain,
And bring a famine near,
By scarcity you all will see;
But if they do awake,
And now repent, like Nineveh,
Their cause I'll undertake.”
I must beg my readers to observe this was iu
March 12th, 1800, after I had sent the letter% o f
the Harvests of 1799 and 1800 to the Rev. Arch­
deacon Moore and the Rev. Mr. Pomeroy; and
'though the truth followed in the year 1799, y et
they did not believe it would in 1800, so continued
mocking till the harvest came on; and I must beg
to Call to the remembrance of the public, how many
hundred thousands of bushels were had from abroad
34
•Digitized by Google
that year to save us from a famine. All the far*
mere in Devonshire said there was not corn enough
to last till Lady-Day, if we had not a supply from
abroad.—So I must leave the readers to judge for
themselves; and now I shall come to a copy of a
letter I sent to the Rev. Mr. Tucker, Heavitree, in
answer to his saying that a former letter of mine
was composed and written by methodist parsons.
To the Rev Mr. Tucker, Heavitree.
Rev. Sir,
I must beg the liberty to answer for myself, as
I heardyou have said, that my letters, which I sent
to you, were from a parcel of methodist parsons,
composed by them to impose on the church mini­
sters, and teach them how to preach the Gospel.
If this is your belief of my letters, I must take the
liberty to answer you as our Saviour did his Disci­
ples—“ Ye Fools and slow of heart this to believe.”
Ought not such woman to be put to silence, and
all her accomplices to shame and confusion, if
the methodists and I had agreed together to put
the Bible in such a manner as no one ever heard or
thought of before; to explaiu the mysteries of the
Bible, as I have wiitten to you and other ministers,
and said I wrote them from the Inspiration of
God,’as it was explained to me from on high, be­
ing visited from the Lord ? Now if this is done
by the heads of men, as you say, we must be full of
mischief, children of the devil, perverting all true
righteousness, mocking of God, and deceiving of
yoafl; and I may add, deceiving and being deceived,
bringing on ourselves swift destruction; and our
crimes are enough to bring down the vengeance of
God oh our land, as there are no Pauls full of the
Holy Ghost to put us to silence. But now to come,
to the purpose—“ Judge not, that ye may not be
judged; condemn not, that ye may not be con­
demned.” As high as the heavens ar$ from the
c 2
' 35
Digitized by Google
earth, so high are my writings from the thoughts,
knowledge, and understandings of the methodists,
and as far as the East is from the West, so far are
my writings from your thoughts, ifyou judge them
from any cunningly-devised fable of men. I now
speak’boldly and affirm, if my writings do not come
from God, there never was any person wrote by the
Spirit of the Lord since earth's foundation was
placed. The same Spirit that first inspired men
to write the Bible, hath inspired me in these last
days to fulfil it, beyond the reach of human learn­
ing. The letter"which I sent you on the 12th
chap, of the Revelation, was" explained to me
from the. thoughts and private conversation o f
the Rev. Chancellor Nutcomb&and the Rev. Arch­
deacon Moore; for I was told by the same Spirit
I wrote by, what they had ‘
said concerning the
letter I sent to them, and they had judged the
Man-child to be Christ; but could not tell how
to make it clear of the Woman travailing in
heaven to be delivered. This, I was told, was
their private conversation together, though I never
heard any one say it. But I may say as Elijah
said to Gehazi, when he went after Naaman :
“ went not my spirit with thine?” The truth of
this you may easily find out from them ; as I do
not think they will deny the truth, if it be so. -But
I believe it from the Spirit I wrote b y ; which is in­
visible. I was surprised to hear in what manner
Mrs. C*— spoke of me. Doth she think I am
another such as herself ? I can assure her, I feared
sin from a child, and I cannot mock God, nor trifle
with eternity ; neither am I jesting with the mini­
sters of the Lord. The letter I sent to the Rev.
Archdeacon Moore last spring foretold the harvest
perfectly as it came; and it was written within th e’
letter, that the first would be mockers, and such
harvest should follow. I was ordered to put it in
36
Digitized by Google
my own hand-writing, to prevent his reading it
before the time was expired. You may marvel how
. a woman that professed to say she is called of God
to write such deep prophecies, and have the.mys-
’ teries of the Bible explained to her, should write
! such a hand as no one can read. But this must be
1 to fulfil the Bible. Every vision John saw in heaven
[ must take place upon earth; and here is the sealed
1 book that no one can read. For what is sealed in
heaven, is sealed on earth; what is loosed in
t heaven, must be loosed on earth. 1 write to you,
sir, as a friend, to judge for yourself. If unbelief
do still abound, the next harvest will be worse than
the last; and your repentance may come too late.
1 am ready to answer for myself in all I have said
and done. I have written no cunningly-devised
fable to any man, but written to make known unto
all men the s e c o n d c o m in g o f t h e Loan
J esus C h r is t ; and am, with the greatest respect,
Your most bumble Servant,
J o a n n a S o u t h c o t t
^ Now I must beg my readers to observe, this
I • . letter was written the 2d of March, iii the year
1800; and the harvest that followed was worse,
as foretold, than the former of 17.99.
k ' A Communication given to Joanna, Jan. 30,
1797, in answer to people’s saying, the fall of
man came onlyfrom eating of an Apple,
The Answer of the Sp ir it .
37
“ From trifling things I did begin ;
The Apple was the first:
Then w«s it not a trifling thing
That man was surely cast ?
'Tis net the Apple I regard,
But disobedience there;
Digitized by C j O O ^ I c
That brought on man my just reward,
- Which he with shame did bear.
Now as he did not mt forsake,
But owned his sentence just,
I gave mv word, upon record,
To save him at the last.
For here is love 1 then did prove,
And well 1 knew his fall;
Therefore my Spirit high did move,
To die and ransom all,
That will obey what I did say;
My Yoke is easy here :
If Men will now rely on me,
Then everv bond Ml clear.
As Satan held me to my word;
My word I did fulfil:
Now let men be as wise as he,
Then Satan’s heart I’ll chill.
I was the author of men’s faith,
Their finisher will be s
So Abel’s blood for vengeance cried,
Yet mine shall set them free.
I am not man, it shall be knowrn ;
I know what Cain did feel;
When Satan gave the fatal blow,
I was near his heel.
His brother’s keeper he was nbt,
And that I well did know ;
The words of Cain were not forgot —
The mysteries I shall shew.
As men do say it is from thee,
Cans’t thou these things explain ?
Thou answerest no : then let it go
l o thy weak foolish brain.
If men do say it is by thee,
T he heavens sure must smile:
To see the simple sons of men
Stand silent all the while.
To hear a woman’s head’s so deep, '
To puzzle mortals here ;
The Shepherd cannot keep his sheep
If he be murder’d here ;
And murder’d here he sure must be,
His life and senses gone ;
If ye believe such simple sheep,
Hath all these wonders done;
At such a time to write my mind*
Was e’er such thing before ?
38
Digitized by Google
Bring me the likeness, and the time,
Then an impostor’s here.
But if the likeness never was.
That any man can prove ;
Then know the Bride must Sure be here—
*
Hath she denied ray love }
Is she asham’d to own my name ?
I'll take her shame away :
Because she knows, she is too low— t
Doth blush the truth to say.
But now, t say, with modesty,
I’ll surely make her bold;
For if her head be covered then,
The truth she shall unfold.
0 now of Cain I shall explain—
He surely fled away ;
Because the sheep he did not keep—
Think on that fatal day ;
His brother dead, and he was fled,
And shepherd there was none ;
His brother’s keeper he was not.
He dreaded his brother’s groans.
So now with men ’tis just the same,
For Satan strikes them dead;
Or else they’d see the mystery,
That they were all misled,
For to believe another Eve
Should lead mankind astray;
The woman then might make them grieve,
And cast the blame on me.
For on me all the blame shall fall,
If thou dost man deceive;
My promise is forgot by all—
Ohf how do men believe !
I made her to complete roan’s bliss.
Sohe was not alone.
1knew the serpent would molest;
I made her of man’s bone,
That at the end it might become
To strike the rebel dead.
So now from Cain, it must be known.
He sure must die, or flee :
Because my sheep he shall not keep,
As he hath murder’d here:
For 1 myself will watch my sheep,
And take them from his care.
So let him flv, like Cain, that day ;
He brought that curse on roan i
39
Digitized by Google
And h$ roust fly, I say, like Cain,
Or else go to his den.
And now unto Isaiah come;
He prophesied of me :
But said a bone should not be broke—
And deep’s the mystery.
As perfect Alan I then did come,
Bom of the Virgin there ;
But now ’tis in the Woman’s form,
I’ll make the mysteries clear.
So here’s the Bone, that stands alone,
A stumbling-bloc k to man:
Close by your side behold the Bride,
And marvel what you’ve done.
Fot just like he, Isay, you be,
And every man’sasleep:
But with surprise lift up your eyes,
And tears ofjoy now weep.
My love’s unknown to every man—
, The bliss I have in store;
For in your hearts it never came*
The golden days are near.
Your standing’s stronger, ’t must be known,
Than ’twas before you fell s
TTie sword that pierc’d my Motber’s soul* *
Shall shake the powers of hell.
So death and hell tney both may swell*
And rage against the Bride;
But they snail know, and tremble too,
That I am by her side.”
Here I ended, January 90, 1797.
Iu the night there were hard winds, like thun­
der, with heavy rains, so that I could not sleep,
hut lay restless all the night j and fearing to believe
the glorious promises-which had been made to
me, thinking they were too great, tears drowned
my eyes, to think that I had lived no more to the
glory of G o d ; and tears of joy to think of his
loving-kindness to man, and the happy days that
were approaching, when Christ should be all in
all, arm Satan chained down; I had many strong
promises made to tne to banish my fears. I
then went to sleep, and thought Satan came tome,
40
Digitized by v - j Q O Q L e n
and put his hand in my mouth. I thought I bit
off bis fingers, and fought and overcame him.—I
had many other strange dreams, which I could
not call to mind.
The Answer of the S p i r i t to the Weather, and
to my Dream.
“ Now what thou'st written I will answer;
As the thirty days were gone*
In the night came windy weather-***
Fast the stores are hastening on.
But if England does awake,
And come to perfect day*,
Ti* other fjqtiams I shall shake—
The sunshine, here you’ll see.
For as the clouds this day dismiss,
The sunshine at the end;
Then shining days HI bring to pass.
And stand your every friend.
So now /tis. time for la awake*
And restless be like thee;
• But will they wish fc>fell asleep*
And say these things must be
Too great for any to believe*
And let it die away ?
Then9
1must be known Satan will come,
And meet them with surprise;
Into their mouths he’ll pvt bis hand;
But let them now be wise—
His lingers bite* his offers slight*
And then they must come off:
For though he watch’d them in the night*
I’ll bring his schemes to nought:
Hi* hands I’ll clear * thou’st nought ta fear*
And bite his thumbs away.
But now to thee I’ll answer here^
It is too much for thee
To feel* and know* bow things do go*
And have thy senses d ear;
Therefore I always stumbled thoe>
That thou mayV stand with fear.
Because a child* that’s never {pil'd,
Will careless go alone;
He’ll headlong run* and down he’ll come*
.Anddash,egniM a stone.
41
Digitized by Google
When tins is done, his father's hand
He will hereafter crave ;
Though stumbling then he goes along.
His father's hand doth save.
As many children partly fall,
When in their father's hand;
The father takes them in his arms,
He finds they cannot stand.
When tir'd they grow, thou well dost know.
The child doth then complain ;
The father takes them in his arms,
And carries them along ;
If sleepy in his arms they grow,
He safely carries them home.
So here's the father and the child,
The spir it and the brid b .
She leans upon her husband' s arms,
The truth can't be denied ;
If she's assaulted in the way,
The husband doth protect;
And if the rebel boldly grows, '
The sword hath often fought;
For what have men of valour done.
Their honour to maintain ?
Sooner than see their Bride become
A victim unto men,
A challenge send, mark what thou’st penned,
(For I shall challenge here 5)
Sooner than thee the victim be,
My sword shall surely clear.
Thy name and nature well 1 know;
What shall I answer here ?
If I should let my Spirit go,
Thy eyes thou drown'st in tears;
Therefore asleep thou still must keep,
Until the challenge come.*
Have I no second intthe pit,
To bear my armour then,
To draw a sword (I mean the w ord,)
And prove I'm injur'd here ?
To say my Bride hath been misled,
And an adulterer ?
The words are high, the cause I’ll try,
My glittering sword shall come ;
I'll never stoop so low to look,
And let my honour down.
* the challenge in the hand-bill* in January, 1803.
48
Digitized by Google
I have begun, I will go on
To vindicate the Bride;
And if a second I have none,
(The field is open’d wide,
The challenge bold,) the fight I’ll hold.
And no man will I fear;
For conquering 1 will conquer now—
I’ll surely kill or cure.
As I've begun I’ll now go on,
And prove the Bride is free;
for an impostor *he is none,
And that you all shall see.
A wife may often be mistook,
Jn what her husband meant;
Fart of his words discern’d them not,
To fathom hisdesigns;
For often this is done by man,
He tells not all his mind.
Now to that purpose I shall come,
And hilly answer here;
This is a perfect type for man,
Which in the ena I’ll clear.”
43
From the Sealed Writings, opened on the IStb of
January, 1803.
Old Christmas-day, 1795, I was commanded to
write and seal up the King, with half the nation.
that was loyal to him* and seal it before twelve
o’clock, and then go out and look at the moon. 'I
sealed it up at eleven, and went out to look at the
moon, and saw a great mist over the earth and in
the heavens; so that the earth was covered with
the mist, and there was not a star to be seen; but
only a halo round the moon, i saw something re­
markable in the moon, and the clouds round it. I
called to Mrs. Minifie and Mrs. Woolland: they
said it was too cold to stay out. I saw an appear­
ance of a man dart through the moon, and 1 said,
Digitized by Google' ^
I wished they had seen i t ; for if I told them the
truth they would not believe me. I went in and
staid some time, and at last rose up to go out again,
and was answered in going out, “ this is the last
time” Soon after I came out, the clock struck
twelve. I went in dissatisfied, as I saw nothing
more extraordinary at that time than I did at
eleven ; and being ordered to look at the moon for
. ends which I should know hereafter, I expected to
see something remarkable; and my friends said it
was common to see the mist over the earth, and in
the heavens. In the night I dreamt I was in a
room where men were dying ofclothes in a furnace,
so that the mist covered the room. At last I saw
them take out something that was smoking, tied
up by the middle, and hung upon a pole. . I went
into another room, and two men came in after me
with a pole over their shoulders, and a pig tied to
it. They then let it down aud untied the pig; I
perceived life in it, and asked wliv they put it into
the furnace alive P They said tney must, but the
pig would not die then. The pig came towards
me with the steam issuing out of his mouth and
nostrils, as though he would devour m e; but the
men said, he should not hurt me. The dream was
answered in the following manner:
44
AH these mysteries I'll make clear to thee.
The met were dying; thou the smoke did’st see;
The furnace at a distance then was seen,
And after that thou saw’st the pig brought in,
Tied in the middle by two single met).
Thou saw’st the pole, and then the pig put down.
Untied the cord, and then it stood alone;
But life was in him, and the smoke appear’d ;
Thou gaa’d upon him* and thou wast afraid.
Now what thou’st written I well know is true;
*TWas I that brought this vision to thy view ;
And with the furnace first, i say, begin?—
It is already on the sons of men
Digitized by L a O O Q l e
• 45
The smoke ascending upwards will appear.
There’s coining on, I say, some awful years,
Satan already, I say, is last bound,
And by the Gospers pole he must come down.
The anger of the Lord it now will rise.
And Satan’s fury, that is in the skies.
Where he came from, I say, thou didst not see.
Until the pig he was brought in to thee; *
So now, 1say, his dye’s already cast,
But on the earth he'll fora season last;
Because thou sawest he certain was alive,
And to believe it thou wast first deceiv’d ;
Because that smoking he was then brought in;
And now I’ll make it unto thee more plain;
For on the earth he will with fury reign,
Because he knows his time will not be tong—*
' He will not bear to leave my sealed ones.
And with^thy dream thou now hast ended there ;
And from the mist I tell thee to be dear. %
They simply say, it is a common thing:
But times and seasons you must sure observe,
If from the Lord you’ll any knowledge have.
The wars are coming, discords are the same*
But now observe, au these together come;
So now remember, at that very time .
That I had told thee for to seal up mine,
And then I told thee to the moon togo,
For ends hereafter thou should’st better know.
Had a strange vision then to thee appear’d,
Thou’st say the end already was declar’d.
But now unto the purpose I shall come:
Thou know’st that night I sealed up the King;
With half his kingdom I did seal him up $
Remember then thou saw’st the mist to smoke ;
Then to the heavens thou surely didst look there.
And then thou saw’st I’d seal’d up every star.
I say again, I”ll surely seal them up;
Come what there will, not one ofthem shall drop.
Those that I said I’d surely seal them m ine;
For thou must seal their names a second time.
For by their Christian Names they all must stand
In perfect order now is my oommand.
For in the Resurrection they are first.
And now I’ll tell lhec why 19eai them last;
For death no power then on them can have;
I do not say they shall not see the grave;
But then the sting of death I’ll take away.—
This is a thing to all a mystery;
Digitized by L j O O Q i e
But yet the mystery I will make more dear ;
Death is a message they with joy shall hear;
The string of conscience, ana the sting of sin,
The pains of death from them shall*sure be gone ;
For like thy mother they shall fall asleep.
Remember when she thought to thee to speak,
Her life then in an instant it was gone;
Remember what she said unto her friend:
“ Her children she must leave unto the Lord;
€€She did not wish to live”—her dying words.
And when thou ask'd if she did feel no pain,
Write thou her words, Til answer thee again.
She said, “ no, my dearest child,”—
Jesus can make a dying bed
“ As soft as downy pillows are ;
“ While on his Breast I lean my head,
*€And breathe my life out sweetly th re .'
So tears of joy I say will surely go
With those ; for I will surely seal them so.
For what I bind on earth, I'Ill)ind in heaven ;
And by the seals the lump it shall be leaven'd ;
For at that time the stars were all seal'd up—
I say again, not one of them shall drop,
That give to thee their perfect Christian names.
Before the year does end, all must be done;
For as the moon * divided was this night;
So will the hearts of men, you'll find, to fight;
Because that one part Satan will proclaim
To work with power, and think they are his own.*
But here his kingdom shall not long endure—
I said I’d bind in bundles every tare;
And a quick harvest Satan he will make;
Into my garners I the wheat will taks ;
And those that will the devil now obey,
I say, on earth they have not long to stay ;
But of my sealed ones let him beware—
He'll take his own, but he shall take no more.
But whosoever will, may to m e come;
I say, that I will never cast out one
That doth for refuge ever come lo m e ;
I am that C ity to which they all may flee;
The Man-slayer js surely now,at hand;
The moon is parted, aud the mist come down;
Unto my w ord, I say, Pll ever stand.
And now awake, O thou, enlightened land—
But to thy Father's dreatn J bid thee go ;
♦ There was a black cioad like a streak across tlie moon.
46
Digitized by L , o o Q L e
47
The perfect dream, I say, thou dost not know;
But untothee, I say, it is a sign,
I amthe very Father of mankind;
And now my Sons I’ll surely come and cure—
1 know that Satan cannot tnem endure;
Therefore, I said I’d surely bind him there; .
ForwelH know he’ll never give them up,'
Till in my anger I do make him drop.
The stroog man arm’d, I tell thee he is here—
A stronger man to conquer shall appear.
. Give o’er thy writing, I no more shall say,
But 1shall talk with dice another day*”
I dreamed I was in an orchard, in 1796. Some of
the tree.s were full of leaves without auy fruit, and
withered; others withiiuit that fell into the mud;
and other trees had fruit very thick and very high,
so that no pole could reach nor shake it down.
" The trees that had no fruit thereon.
The leaves were wither’d there,
Thou didst not gaze so long upon,
But mark what did appear;
The apples high thou didst espy,
But they did never fall;
And now I’ll shew the reason why,
The mysteries I shall tell.
Because that fruit I shall not shake,
That stedfast now do stand ;
They’ll find my promises are great,
Out of the reach of man.
Under the trees the fruit was fall’n ;
With dirt it did appear;
Andthou may’st easy know it all,
The perfect substance here.
Under the trees the fruit was found,
And damag’d by the dirt ;
Upon the trees the fruit is plac’d,
That I shall never hurt.
Out of thy reach the apples stood;
Out o f the reach of man ;
Because the truth they’ll all allow*,
The ark will there be found.
Digitized by
So now alike you three may be,
- And peaceably sit down ;
Wait till you see the mystery,
And how the end I*ll crown.
I said like Woolland • I would do,
And he did threaten long:
I’ve brought the mysteries to thy view.
And to the purp .se come. •
Because the voice f thou heard'st aloud.
And loudly 1 shall call;
My wind shall blow, they all shall know,
. And down the fruit shall fall.
Because my anger it shaH burn,
And they shall know the call;
But first the truth I will make clear,
. And all men I will try.
Therefore my promise I keep back,
And here’s a mystery ;
If I my Wonders had begun,
How could 1 any try ? .
* Or shew how all men now would act*
In this great mystery i
I'll shew the mystery at the last,
And make the lines now clear ;
*Tis I that strengthens now thy hand,
And that a fool may see ;
Or like thy pen thou must fall down;
And here's the mystery:
Tor like the mistress thou hast been—
Thy heart is wounded deep ;
And now unto the sons ot men,
My fury soon will break.
If like the servant they begin,
♦ As warning she did give;
I tell thee now what is my mind,
Another jury have.
Now from this day, to thee I say,
I’ll trifle here no more ;
For on the third, it was my word.
I’ll open now the door ;
For Leech’s coming was the first,
But none did then believe ;
It came not as he did expect,
And therefore was deceiv’d.
48
• Mr. Woolland had a set oftroublesome servants, and threatened fhem^k •
twelve month, and at last suddenly discharged them,
f Joanna heard herself called three times.
Digitized by Google
So perfect with the Jews ofold, /
So perfect this hath been ;
Another jury I shall choose,
If these do not agree. .
Now from the former who could judge,
Ifthou had’st ended there?
From these two lines could any see,
How things could now appear ?”
49 /
Zechariah 11th and 12th Chapters—‘Explained
in part. 179o.
“ Now from these chapters I'll begin;
The mysteries there are deep ;
From types atid shadows nowH comes on—
The law and gospel keep.
Thou know'st the price was valued there,
That I was after sold;
But now the mysteries I shall dear.
And all the lines unfold.
The staff was Beauty that was broke,
And valued at that time;
My Covenant from diem was broke
In my appointed time.
# So by the Seals Hisjust the same;
Thou know'st 'twas broken there;
And round thy seals I bid thee cut—
Let all men now beware.
Tis but the Church alone doth stand,
And stedfast it will b e;
When I've awaken'd every land
Tis there they all must flee.
So here the chapters do go detp—
Mark what was seal'd before;
I told thee plain dial they would weep;
To see how they did err.
The types do in the altar stand ;
And stedfast shall endure;
I said the ark was in m y h a n d ,
And there must Hride secure.
* Joanna was ordered to take outfrom one pert of her tooled wriciAgs in the
fttwncc of witnesses, and to cat round her semis, as no seal was ever broke
(fromthefine, until the 12th ofJanuary 1803. See the first page in this Book)
cscept by the sis men who x^ct in 1795 to examine part of the writings; they
were dissenters from the church, who contrary to the agreement broke the
•calsw about three sheets, which they carried away. (See page 10 of tbo
finepartofProphecies published in 1801')
D
Digitized by Google
Blame on themselves they all will cast;
But who can blame thee there ?
I said that Covenant would not last;
And now the truth Pll dear.
Thou told’st them not to break the seals ;
Then how can they blame thee,
If to their wisdom they will trust.
In such a mystery
As far surpassed all their heads ?
Not one could it explain ;
How could they say thou wast misled ?
The folly there of men !
Out of their mouths condemn’d they b e;
Theirfol/y don’t discern ;
But Pll explain the mystery,
And show how they did warn ;
Because that good men were deceiv’d,
Was all they could assign;
Then why not they as well as thee ?
’Twas pride puff’d up their minds;
But then they thought they must be right,
As all were ofone mind,
And 1 shall bring the Truth to light.
And shew what lies behind;
All of one mind they did agree,
The priests must appear;
So now my shephera he is come,
Pll fix the standard there.*
If they were right in all they’d done,
Then let them all agree;
And to the standard let them come ;
For that’s the mind of me.
Because their covenant is broke—
I said it was not good;
None mark’d the words that I had spoke;
Nor were they understood.
So in the enckthey will be right;
Because it was my mind
To fix the standard to the Church,
And there I shall resign.”
50
* A Minister oftbc established Church who called to advise Joamna.
/
Digitized by Google
Explanation o f: the 33d Chapter of Numbers,
given to Joanna in 1796.
" Now this chapter doth thee fRZzte*
As I said before to thee $
And as thou canst not explain it,
I shall shew the m
51
Moses my command nritten;
To the Jews he did it give;
But thou know'st how they were smitten;
For by it they would not live,
6ee thejudgments there did happen;
If that this you will prevent,
Let them do as 1 have spoken ;
Or they surely shall repent
Thou’st devis'd no cunning fables;
And that every soul shall know
Where's the man that now is able
All such writings for to shew ?
In thy heart thou answerest, no one;
And the truth thou answerest here;
And the truth's in all thy writings,
I will nuke them to appear.
Now to thy ribbon thoa must look,
And see how't doth appear;
No perfect likeness in it o e;
But see the mystery clear.
The stars on bom sides they do stand ;
The parting is between ;
So Jews and Gentiles both may come,
And I shall both redeem.
Therefore this thing I did ordain.
That different you should wear j
The four stars are at the top ;
And see the crown is clear.
The four stars were seen at first,
I told thee, in the seal; •
The four stars in heaven were plac'd—
The mystery I'll reveal.
The four stars do now appear,
That thou must wear that day ;
Then now my jury all must come—
I bid them all obey.
To jodge as men they must begin ;
And thy accusers come;
No greater trial e'er was found,
Than now is coming on,
Since oh the Cross! did expire.
To die for sinful man.
Digitized by Google
1*11own the trial then was high;
- -But to the purposecome;
For thou art equally now condemn'd1
,
A m*d-UNMn to be; *
And if the truth they thus deny,
Their folly let them see.
Thou know^st thou art already east,*
And by onejury tried ; *
But now the mystery's at the last; k
For twelve must be applied. *
Now let them for my Church appea^
And let my chosen come. a
It was the Church that first believ'd y
Then who must I condemn ?
But here thy trial will be great,
As I haye mid before; a
And they will find there’s no deceit
In all thy writings there.
To judge as men they must begin, .
If they will stop my hand;
Or else my vengeance fast will come,
For to destroy your land.
But thou hast promis’d to obey,
And I well Know 'tis true;
T is I that holds thee by the hand,
a And will not let thee go.
The power and word are from the L o an ;
But those that do thee blame,
Will surely know, with one accord,
I'll put them all to shame.
If they against mb still will fight,
They shall not stop thy hand;
For I shall bring the truth to light, *
And shew it in the land.
But on condition I have said,
Like Nineveh I'll do;
And will ye wish it to appear,
And wish to see it true ?
To this petition I shall answer,
Let priests and bishops now awake;
Then the King's heart III make tender,
Ere my Sceptre I will shake.
He that doth obe) me now.
Preserv’d will surely be;
And he that doth refuse my word,
My power shall surely see.” '
* By the Six firstat Exeter, who brokethemselves offthrough dieobedicuct.
58
Digitized by Google
J o a n n a , in 1796, put her pen into the bible
with her eyes shut; and she f94Mpd.itin the Second
Book of Chronicles, chap. xxix. v. 1 . She was
ordered to read it o v era n d was answered in die
following manner by the S p i r i t :
* “ Mow this chapter thou hist read it,
Aadapystery *tis to thee;
But the mystery I’ll explain it,
And shew these chapters do agree.*
By the law I did ordain it,
- That burnt-offerings they should shew;
By the Gospel I command it,
As a token of the law ;
Both together I havejoin'd them ;
All alike, I say, must stand:
I am God and nothing vary—
Wrong inventions come from man;
Wrong inventions they're pursuing;
Is my altar cleansing here ?
Do they know what they are doing ?
Let' the priests then now appear;
Every altar they must cleanse it; »
Nor support the Romish bands.
They shall know what Pm pursuing,
In short time, in every land.
*Tis the altars I am cleansing,
And that every soul shall know;
If my priests do awaken,
They’ll prevent the filial blow*
For this land I will defend it—
Peace and plenty they shall see;f
For this thing I did intend it,
That the earth may all Iuiqw Mi.
But if 1 am now denied,
Fatal shall the ruin fall;
Therefore thou must make it public;
Let menknow that I do call. ..
For my Name shall now be known
Amongst the sons of men;
And to thy other chapter go.
And I will it explain.”
9 Indth liv.—Numbers xxxiii.— %Chron. xxix.
tin the Summer of 1801, three ministers of the established church wroto
Is Joanna sod inquired into the trath of these things.—The preliminaries of
Fetes followed in October 1801,and plentiful Harvests since.
53
9
Digitized by Google
The‘SOthfD ay of January, 1803.
>
►
The following communication was given to
J o a n n a , in answer to three ladies, and four gen­
tlemen, who came to persuade her that no pro­
phecies could be given to a woman for the fulfil­
ment of the bible.—And they said, they thought
that the happiness of man would never be com­
pleted here on earth.. These words were given to
m e -t-
“ Let them answer the following questions—
The earth was formed, and man was made in
the likeness of his Maker, to be lord of the cre­
ation ; the woman was taken from the man to
complete his happiness; as I said, it was not good
for tne man to be alone, and made the woman for
his helpmate; and by her casting the fault on the
serpent, his curse was pronounced to be above
every living creature. Now let the learned
answer this question, How is this to be done?
The tree of know edge was of good and evil,—
The knowledge of God, and the knowledge of the
Devil. Now, if they say the woman brought
them to the knowledge of the devil, which is the
evil, and never brings them to the knowledge o f
the g o o d , which is the Lord ; let them tell, how.
it was not good for the man to be alone ? or how
I came to do the will of G od, if I do not make
the woman what my Father designed her for? Will
they answer, it was done by my Mother’s bring­
ing m e into the world ? Then tell me how that
happiness was completed, and prove it is done ?
Let them tell what the prophet meant by the bar­
ren womb being made a joyful mother of chiU
Digitized by Google
dren; and what I meant by saying, the time
should come, that they should say, “ Blessed is
the barren womb that never bore, and the paps
which never gave'suck?” Or what the apostle
meant by saying, “ that the married woman is in
bondage to her husband; but the single woman
is to the Lord ?” And what he meant by saying
“ when the fulness of the time was come, Gojo
sent forth his So n , made of a woman, made under
the law, to redeem them that were under the
law r” Now, if they answer, it meant my being
born of a woman, at my coming in the body; Jet
them tell me, who is redeemed that was under the,
law ? for the Jews were under the law of G o d
and will they prove they are redeemed ?” •What
fulness of time was then come ? What woman
hath ever appeared clothed with the Sun e f
Righteousness, that hath been a wonder to man­
kind ? Who: ever professed to man, that she was
to claim a promise of G o d to tread down Satan
under her feet ? Or, where is the woman that
they can bring, who is ready to declare unto all
men, her Lokd is preparing to return, and visit
the world in power and splendour, to fulfil all that
the prophets prophesied of him: and that she is
ready to bear the testimony of him by the truths
which the S p i r i t hath told her—that the Spirit
of J esu s is come to visit her, to enlighten all men,
and to reconcile -the world unto Goj>; and that
she is to invite them in my stead ; as my S p i r i t
is come to the Bride; so whosoever will may take
of the water of life freely ? Let them tell what the
waterof life means; and what the tree of life means,
that the leaves thereof are for the healing of the
nations; and whether the nations were, ever yet
healed ? Let them tell what Spirit informed thee,
in 1792, of all the things which have already come
to pass ? viz. The war, the dearth, the distresses o f
55
Digitized by L - o o Q i e
nations, the fever in America, the rebellion in
Ireland, the deceit of Holland, the conquest of
Italy by the French, every bad harvest foretold ,
the year before they came, and every leading
event which has happened for eleven years past;
the conduct of the shepherds (or clergy) foretold,
and the threatenings pronounced against them*
I f I had not known what was in them, how could
I say, I well might weep, to see my sheep such
careless shepherds have, if I had not known they
would be weighed in the balance, and would be
found wanting ? Now, let them tell, who
knoweth the heart of man, but he that made and
formed it ?”
Th'e Methodists, and all the self-righteous, I
was foretold, would act perfectly like' the self-
righteous Jews; and they have acted exactly as
foretold.
“ The Jews said they were the seed of Abraham,
and there they trusted for their salvation; the
self-righteous say they are saved by being itt
C h r i s t , without having my Spirit. This I fore­
told thee; and this is now fulfilled. Therefore, I
said I would choose their reprobates, to judge thy
written hand; and that sentence is now passed
by them on the Jury. So let them that boast of
wisdom now shew their wisdom, and answer all
these scriptures, which I have mentioned; and
tell what Spirit foretold thee all the truths in thy
writings, which have already come to pass; and
the others they will find are hastening on. Let
this be answered by the learned, and I will answer
thee again: and let them tell what death Adam
died when he eat the forbidden fruit. For now
they shall find I have a controversy with my
people, and I will plead with them, in the Sp ir it ,
b y THEE.”
56
Digitized by C j O O Q i e
A commuaication given to Joanna, June 13th,
1797, in answer to Mr. Woolland (at whose house
Joanna lodged) and a Mrs. Minifie, disputing about
having a peace at the end of that month; Mr.
Woolland saying it would be so.
* 4t Now Joanna this III clear:
Wondrous news may sure come here, *
When that ■
■ ■
■■
—does return.
On the seas, I say, lam ;
Seas of sorrow do abound;
Every nation compass’d roun<^
Full of sorrow ana of sin.
Now to reason HI begin.
I have dipt my sword in blood;
Where’s the man that knows his God 1
Or these fatal days discern ?
Judge if I should alter one ?
In thy heart thou answerest, no;
Then what swords shall I let go.
If the Spirit’s sword don’t fight,
For to make you sons of light?
Still my glittering sword must fly.
Till the rebels do comply.
Have I drawn the sword in vain }
Shall I sheath it up again,
And my work left now half done ?
N o ! 1say, 1 will go on:
1 to conquer have begun:
The Pope his pardon bought of mav.
If his life that he would save:
Surehis money he did give.*
Lewis he hath lost his crown;
Holland in that state is found;
Every Nation is perplex’d.
Now, I’ll tell thee what comes next:
If 1 stop the raging war,
See my bible and be clear;
From the Gospel draw your sword; ,
Sound the coming of your Lord ;
Let my thunder sound that way ;
For my wheels shall not delay ;
Perfectas (he crown doth stand,
Now’s the sceptre in my hand*
• Thu*n*d«to a bargaintetwoon tbeF*ye and the Snack at Hub Hbtf
fc*Rosa abortthis Uo*
S7
Digitized by Google
l)rawri the circle on both sides:
Let the Cause be fairly tried:
There the Olive Brandi you’ll see.;
In thy Sealsthe same you’ll see:
Every Seal you mast compare: -
*Tis time for Shepherds to be dear—
58
That my C rown may surely stapd ;
And my Biblk now command. ■
Let his forehead be like thine.
See the truth and make it shine.
I will make bis face like brass;
Who shall now the man disgrace,
That so wisely did appear
Tojudge from whence thy writings were?
Then now to challenge he may come;
His armour-bearer must be known;
For when Taylor doth appear,
I'll prove his armour-bearer’s here.
Jn the balance they were weigh’d.
Over-balanc’d by thy head;
.And they were not wanting there:
Soon the mysteries I shall clear.*
Digitized by C a O C K ^ l c
I was ordered to stop the printing of this book,-
of the Sealed Prophecies, at the fifty-eighth page ;
and I must inform my readers, that there were
fifty-eight persons, whose faith was clear that my*
calling was of G od; and who signed their namea
to this truth, on the 19th day of January, being
the last of the seven days when my writings were #
proved.
Now I must draw the attention of my readers,
and desire them to weigh deeply what is written in
eachseparate page. Let the two first be answered,
bythose who say the Calling is not of God. And
let it be answered how fifty-eight met together of
one mind—and let the fourth and fifth page be-
weighed deeply, and answered with judgment; and
not like children, who blame a thing because they
i donot understand it. Now I shall call you to the
sixth page and the sixth day of the creation, and
answer, why the Loan should not fiuish that hap-
I piness for man at last, which he created him for at
| first? Weigh the seventh day in the creation with
I theseventh page. Who will disannul that seventh
day of rest for man ? And one day is with the
Lord as a thousand years, and a thousand years aa
oneday. Here C h h is t has promised according to
hisGospel, to bring in that one thousand years of
rest to man; and here he has promised to triumph
over Death, Hell, and the Grave; as you will see
in the eighth page. And now I shall call you to
theninth page. Let the leprous men return, unless
they wish to abide in their spots, and perish with
their Leader; as you see it is continued on in the
1 tenthpage. Now weigh deeply the eleventh. Quit
yourselves like men and be strong; that Satan may
becastand man be freed. Mark deeply the twelfth
page;and see how strongly C h r is t , hath promised
to pay the debt of man’s transgression, it we now .
59
Digitized by Googte
trust wholly in him, as a child trusts to his father.
And now go on to the thirteenth, and see the
threatenings pronounced against those whose faith
'will not be to believe, to rely upon his words.
For now, see in 14 page the L o r d will do as he did
in the days of old, when h e saved Noah in the
ark, and destroyed the world through unbelief.
And consider deeply the 15th, 16 th, and 17th pages;
and see if men are not become as dry as the eggs
that were boiled: and deeply weigh the 19 th and
SOth pages, and mark the SOth ; particularly, what
a body of stars was collected together when my
writings were proved ; and who all joined toge­
ther as the heart of one man. Weigh deeply the
S2d and the 23d pages. Remember this was in
1796; and now I am come to the City, according
to my dream; and the seven stars, were joined
with seven more, making fourteen; one seven went
down'to Exeter to inquire into the Truth; and
now seven more have joined them: And 1 must
beg every one to join with me in my prayer, in
the 27th page, if you wish to bring the day of ven­
geance on Satan, and not on yourselves. Then
see what is continued on to the 30th page; and
there see the begiuning of the letters sent to mi--,
nisters; which is continued to the 37th page; and * -
seven years I have been warning them without any -
effect; and must compare them to the boiled eggs.-
Here I shall begin from the 86th page, and give
the explanation given to me by the Spirit.—*“ As :
the 26th page has the circle in it, so mil I encircle j
all that come within my compass: for there is the
mystery of the circle that was seen in the heavens. ,
The three stars on one side in the form of a com­
pass denote the Three-Oue-God, that placed it
and commanded it to be drawn—and so will I
encircle the names of ttyose that believe ; that
I may know every’ name which signs for Satan’s de*
60
Digitized by Google
•traction, and for the coming of my Kingdom*
when I come to take possession of the earth. But
ktnoone sign it, who does not wish it, or does not
believe that I have commanded it by thee, who art
the single star, standing alone to accomplish my
Will, with three Shepherds, in my stead. There^
fore I chose three, and no more, to begin and
carry on my work with thee; and my Sheep are
joined with my Shepherds, and so am I joined to
them all, that join with thee in prayer for Satan’s
destruction; as thou prayest for it in the 87th
page. There is a prayer for all to copy after:
and I will encircle such; as the four stars are en*
circled within the compass. Now let the learned
worldanswer how there came to be three ministers,
or three shepherds, and no more: and they of the
establishedchurch, to whom my promise was made:
Let this question be answered by man, and I will
answer thee again. But let it be known unto aH
no, I have compared these three shepherds as & .
Shadow of the Three-One-God, and invited the
l the ministers both privately and publicly to taste
of my supper; but all refused: and this I foretold
j would happen at my second Coming; and let all
menknow it is now fulfilled. Now let them an-
iwerbow the women came all with wedding gar*
Bents, in robes of white, as tokens of innocence.
—
Twocame without and went away. This is close
to.my bible, as I shewed thee in the 88th page;
hnt men have placed their bibles wrong, and so
, they continue to do; but now they must call back
■ all to their remembrance that 1 compared the
shepherds to—
-Dumb dogs that cannot bark: and
1 therewas not one that appeared to condemn thee.
1 I was in the house, as thou wast the day thou
didst not appear (see 89th page) and that every
soulshall know. Now let no one blame my shep*
herds who were present for I tell thee and all
6l
i
Digitized by Google
Mankind, great is my promise, and great shall
be their reward, if they follow on to know the
L o r d , as they have begun : but severe would be
their punishment in time and eternity, if either of
them should fall back, for fear of the anger of men;
as my word is gone out against the carelessness of
my shepherds, who I told thee in the beginning
would be careless for their docks. Therefore, I
said, weep ye ministers, mourn ye priests; let the
ministers weep between the porch and the altar,
when the destroying angel goes through the land;
But how could they weep, if they had been faith­
ful shepherds to a faithless dock? Then the dock
might weep and the shepherds rejoice, to think
they were clear from the blood of all men, as they
had obeyed their L o r d ’s command; and the blood
of the sheep must be on their own heads. And
now let the call to the ministers be marked by-all
men, from the 30th page to the 37th. Seven
years, thou hast been warning them: But who hath
believed the report ? or to whom is the arm of the
Lord revealed ? I was found of them that I sought
not after; but was rejected of them whom I had
called ; for like Adam they hid themselves from
my Presence: and now let all men weigh their
letters deeply. And now I tell tbee, if there had not
been found these three shepherds, to be as a Moses
in the gap, as a Joseph in Egypt, and a Noah to
build tne Ark of the N e w C o v e n a n t for man,
your land must be destroyed by fire, as the world
of old was by water: for I would not spare horse
nor rider; but would have brought the day. of ven­
geance on all flesh, for nailing m e to the wood;
that wood should kindle a fire in my anger, and
wrath in my fury, that should burn to the ne­
thermost hell, if 1 had not found men to bring the
Woman’s guilt on Satan’s head, as man brought
hi# guilt oh m e .” So now* O men, judge for yow
63
Digitized by L i O O Q i e
selves, and tell me on Whom the day of vengeance
shall fall. Will you say on sinners? Then he
that is withoutsin let him cast the first stone. But *-
here must every tongue be silent, and every mouth
be stopped. I am a swift witness against man*
kind. If I tell you the truth why not believe me?
If I tell you lies, why not reprove me? Weigh
my letter to the Rev. Mr. Tucker? and let it be
known he was a Curate to the Rev. Archdeacon
Moore, and often came to the house where I re­
sided: yet no man reproved me; but privately
said they could not believe the L o r d would-reveal
his secrets to a woman. Then, ye should never
have believed the fall came by a woman. “ So now
1 mao stands to plead his trial alone; why he re­
fuses the good, and chooses the evil; why he hath
turned the past judgments into gall, and righ­
teousness into hemlock. Or how can he run upon
these rocks? Or how will he plough therewith
oxen? How will he break this ground, that is
made as firm as the pillars of heaven ? Is it good
| for the man to be alone ? For as the woman hath
! borne the. pains of hell, to bring in her natural
I children, so now she shall bear the joys of hea­
ven to bring in her spiritual children. And as
she hath borne pain ever since the fall, that was
never cast on man, to bring forth the fruits of the
womb, so she shall have that light given'her,
which never shall be given to man, but through
the woman, to bring in the spiritual children.
63
Then now I tell you one and all,
When you the race of man can call
Without the woman to appear,
Then say you do not want her here.
If you without her can be born,
I need not Visit in her form,
L
Digitized by Google
To bring a spiritual race to man;
Because the woman was my plan,
To have mankind be born anew.
Now bring my Gospel to your view;
1 said, ye must be born again.
Look deep, ye simple sons of men;
And tell me how that man was born,
You say," from Adam’t might be known ;
9
9Without the woman he did appear;
4
9He was the dust that perish’d there.
*
*And so the dust doth still go on;
9t And putrefaction’s still in man.”
But of the woman I was Lorn,
(A mystery deep no man discerns)
To putrefaction did not come:
Then now like me be born again,
And from the woman all appear;
And then I’ll make you sons and heirs;
For heirs of G od you now shall be,
And, as I said, joint-heirs with m e ;
And of the Spir it now be bom.
You know ’tis written, in her form,
That G od would surely send his Son,
When the full t im e was surely come;
That as in Adam all men died,
Even in mb, it is applied,
That all I’d make alive to be—
Appear vain men and answer me,
How you my Bible so deny ? •
The H oly G host, I then did say,
My Father would send in my Name,
And all to your remembrance bring;
And all together is brought here,
What men by learning cannot clear.
No more than they can make a race z
The Sodomites must men disgrace.
2 ask what children there did come ?
For, men’s inventions all are wrong;
And so ’t wenton from Adam’s fall;
I came as man unto you all—
As man I lived, as man I died:
As very man by you applied; *
And yet you say I’m very G od ;
Then sure the woman must be know’d
To stand before you like my Bone;
For G od and Man alike to join.
The second A dam must appear.
As in my Gospel you see clear,
64
Digitized by Google
For to redeem you from the first;
And there the serpent must be cast;
Because he came to tempt the bride,
As he did Eve, it is applied;
But she like Eve did not submit;
And him Til chain beneath her feet;
And she shall surely tread him down;
And all men's wisdom I'll confound,
That do like Adam now appear,
Condemn me for the woman here,
As Adam cast the blame at first;
But man shall find I’ll cast it last;
Because no more I'll bear the blame,
But put the sons of men to shame.
My second coming is begun,
I tellyou, in the Woman's form;
And I'll go on and make an end ;
i died to oe the woman's friend ,
And as her friend I’ll now appear.
In every page that's written here.
And so I'h end it with the^CmowN ;
As fifty-eight their names were found,
To sign their names, as doth appear—
Satan is cast, the Woman's clear'd.
And I'll go on to clear the whole;
And now's your time to stand or fall.
So here's the Bone shall not be broke |
The second Adam is your lot,
For to redeem you from the fall—
Appear Vain men; and answer all,
How Adam's likeness can appear, 4
Without the Woman ? Who can clear f
Or how you'll cast the blame on bell.
Without the Woman? mortals tell.
Let all my Bible to appear;
More blind now than the Jews you are:
Yet they of wisdom did proudly boast *
And by their wisdom they were lost.
And all men’s wisdom is the same ;
For dead to knowledge man I'll name—
He was pronounced By the fall,
And now III prove you are dead all,
To every knowledge of your G od ;
Confirm the lie which Satan said,
That a true knowledge you should gain;
But soon I’ll make you know you're men $
And no more knowledge have of mb, ,
Than a dead corpse has eyes to see,
£
65
Digitized by Google
When he is bnricd in the dust 5
So wrong your wisdom you do trust;
And so I #m come to prove yoifire dead
To every knowledge, as I’ve said.
It is by faith that some believe ; ,
But learning doth men afl deceive,
Wherein their wisdom they do trust;
The natural branch that way was cast—
And the wild olive is the same,
And so high-minded are become.
Then now ’tis time to stand in tear ;
The natural branches perish’d there.
Then sure the olive will the same;
No man by learning knows my Name ;
So to your learning do not trust;
I tell you all there man is lost;
Because my Bible none discern,
Nor in what manner I do warn ;
For how could I pronounce man dead,
If that his knowledge was not fled ?
And now I am come to try them all,
And down their wisdom it must fall:
And all as new-born babes become,
Confess that ye have all to learn ;
And then 1 say I’ll make you men ;
And the good fruit to all shall come,
That will like Moses now appear;
Put offyour shoes as he did there--
That is your wisdom all put off; ‘
Weigh deep these lines—I’ve said enough*
And to the sealed now I’ll come,
And tell you how I’lljoin all men.
For how can man his talents boast,
And prove his wisdom shines,
When all his wisdom it is lost ? .
Another lies behind, .
And then condemns what he hath done >
Then where’s the man can boast,
To say his wisdom bright does shine?
No, every man is lost.
In wisdom here no man can clear,
To prove his wisdom’s good :
Because anotherM
does appear
And say that it is bad.
And so’t went on, I say, by man,
Ever since Adam's fall;
And every century trace you back
Then prove thetruth of all. .
66
Digitized by Google
But now I'll come t6 rescue man,
And make the blind to see;
That when toy Kingdom doth come down,
You of one mind shall be.
As Fve began Til now go on,
Tift all are ofone mind.
And to the sealed letters come—i
My. Kingdom there 1
*
1
1 bind.
So now ye seethe mystery,
How 1 shall draw you alt;
Ye that don't come, it shall be known.
Must die in Adam’s fall.
For there’s not one I will redeem
From Adam’s fallen race,
That do not come with me to join,
And plead my saving G race.
So by the Seals, I’ll now reveal,
Tis there your Names must stand,
If you will be wedded to ME,
And gain the promis’d land ;
For there's no man that is not found
For to be seal’d below,
That shall possess this earthly ground,
When I my Kingdom shew,
For to come down, and rescue man
From Satan and from sm,
And give you all the promis'd land^
That I fur man ordain'd.
4fl know them not ” shall be their lot,
When I to man appear;
My Kingdom you have all forgot,
^ And you're forgotten here.
To have your names enroll'd above,
As you've refus'd below;
Vou ail despise my perfect love ;
And how will you appear ?
* J said on earth you must be seal’d,
Before you were in heaven ;
And now themysteries I'll reveal,
And I my Seal have given.
The second Star doth now appear,
And tothe Bride is come;
If for the*Bridegroom you'll prepare,
Then let your faith be known;
To give your names that I may come,
For to deliver here
From Hell and Sin; my Kingdom win,
And let your naxnesappear ;
e Q
67
Digitized by Google
Of else your let, * I know you not,”
You’ll find is then my cry;
The E&roueftobM you have quite forgot.
And let your lamps grow dry—
That is, your faith is wither'd here,
And all your oil is gone.
1 told you I should so appear;
But lamps in every hand
Must then appear, when 1 come here
I ask, what lamps must be l
It is a faith for to believe
That I shall rescue ye,
From death, and hell, and Adam's fall—
The promise there was made;
And so I said, I’d rescue all;
Oh, men, be not misled!
What’s seal'd on earth, the scripture smith*
Is surely seal’d in heaven ;
Therefore your names 1 know them not.
Where you no names have given.
But those that give, and then deceive.
And say their faith was wfong,
They ’re loosed here, and shall appear—
For so their lot must come.
So now you*see your destiny,
The hours of all went wrong\
And twenty-four, now judge ye.
For so the day is crown’d ;
And so ’t shall end, ’tis my intent;
The names must all appear $
By my command the names must stand—
*
And so I have ended here.”
6S
This communication was given to Joanna, ha
1795, concerning the Sepulchre of our Saviour,
and the Sealing up of her Writings,
u When in the Sepulchre I soon was laid,
The stone was roll’d and the seats were mad^
To guard mv Body, it might not arise.
Or my Disciples e’er deceived their eyes.
This was the wisdom first begun by m an;
^low ebangwthe lines# and to the other come;
Digitized by L . o o Q l e
I aid a Bone of him should not be broke;
Read o’er the chapter, see how it was spoke.
That all the Bible it might be fulfill'd;
And every thing according to my will.
Without a Seam my garment it was made.
And interwoven; out by man betray'd.
But now the mystery I’ve explain’d to thee ;
Or fatal now for all men it would be.
But as my Coat was interwoven through.
My Covenant I make with Man isnew :
J tellyou it shall be without a seam,
When I do come aU menJot to redeem«
For now the Bone it must to all appear ;
It is not broken they may see it clear.
.For all my Covenant is sealed up :
Three seals together are in every stamp;
The Fathar, Son, and H oly G host, these three
Combin'd together in the T b in it y .
Bone ofthe Man the Woman first was made,
And by the temptershe was sooit betray'd;
And in the garden I did find the same—
II was the Devil then in Judas came:
So like the Woman \ was then betray'd %
Now in the Woman I will break his head.
Thou know'st how Judas did himselfcondemn:
Therefore 1 pity now will have on man.
•Tit well for Satan had he ne'er been born;
Or the proud waves confin'd him to his doom f
Because on Satan doth my anger burn—
I'll save all souls, that now to me will turn*
My arms are open all men to receiye;
The water flowing will the fountain give:
And let my Gospel sound from pole to pole;
Andfree salvation must be preac&d to all;
Whoever will I bid them now to come—
My Promise is,‘I'll never oast cut one,
That doth my fav ur now begin to seek:
The time draws nigh that it will be toolate*
I spar'd the fig-free but one single year;
*Tu in mv Gospel, let all men beware.
My feast's preparing, and my servants g6,
To know if they win sup with me or no.
The Bridegroom's coming, let them oil prepare
It is too late when 1 have shut the door:
For when the axe is laid unto the Tree,
The Boot cat down, the Branches dead mutt be.
Digitized by Google
Now glorious days, I say, are coining on
To such as don’t my favours proudly scori);
But they that do my favours now despise,
Go with their masters, whom they do more prize f
Because this earth I've chose itf o r m y ow n;
And in my chariot I am coming down.”
70
j
In December 14th, 1795. Mr. Kidner dreamed _
that the com was ripe unto harvest, in some fields;
but one was green, and could not ripen for want
of sun. All on a sudden he thought the sun burnt
so much, that he felt the heat, and was warmed
thereby. The field of corn was ripened at once
by the burning sun. There was some corn, how­
ever, green, and they were forced to cut it down,
and carry it into another field to ripen ; as the
eaves of the trees shaded the field, so that the sun
could not come to ripen it.—
The Answer of the Spirit.
“ And now these lines thou hast read o’er to u z ,
I’ll answer every single line to thee.
The corn in other fields did ripen’d stand—
Why art thou puzzl’d ? it is in this land. ^
This is the field he dream’d it was so green :
In all thy writings plain it might be seen ;
For by the leaves the corn was shaded so
I say, the leaves do shadow all the corn,
It was notripe, nor fit for any barn,
Until the burning sun did there appear;
And now the mystery I will make more clear:
The leaves that shaded it is men’s wisdom so ;
Do not thy writings tell thee how to go ?
For now 1tell thee ’tis the leaves of men
They sew together and do shade the com.
Therefore no fig-leaves let them sew at all; ,
But cry we’re guilty, we are guilty all;
And let your fig-leaves all be thrown away;
And all shall burn to the most perfect day*
For unto harvest must the corn now come ;
Because the tares I surely now shall burn j
Digitized by k j O O Q i e
But to the purpose I do bid thee come.
The field he dreamed of it is Westley's room—
The cbm is green I'll make.it to appear?
Because, I say, themselves they so do trust.
Thinking they are so wise, so good, and just—
And as they're cleansed, now they want no more:
But go the very way they went before :
And 'tis their righteousness they do commend ;
And on their wisdom they do all depend.
But here thou’rt puzzYd, and thy pen's put drown;
And by their prayers they do thy senses drown:
As in my merits thou sayest they do plead;
And what thou'st written I well know is true.
And now l'il make it plainer to thy view:
To make it plainer and to make it dear,
They do not act according to their prayers ;
For ifthey did, they would inquire to know,
Whether the things thou speak’sl of, they are so
l
Therefore, 1 say, the corn will still be green.
Until men's wis^m it is all cut down;
And in another field to ripen there.
Whyart thou puzzled? I shall answer here :
The burning sun did ripen soon the corn,
And bring it fit to put into the barn ;
The burning sun it surely will appear—
But for the present thou hast ended here.
For what he dreamt he did not understand—
Twas I permitted it to come to thy hand:
And they will better know another day,
W h^W uiU shew the true and perfect way.*
71
February 422d, 1803. I dreamt that I was on
an amazing large Tree, with such large branches
and trunk as never was seen. There ivas a great
Dumber of people on it, like a flock of birds. I
thought I stood on one of the large branches,
and field by an u p p e r b r a n c h .. When 1 came
to the end of the branch I stood ou, I left my
footing, and held fast by the u p p e r one ; and
that branch lengthened out like the wa£er from
Digitized by C j O O ^ I c
72
an engine, and carried me over many dangerous
and difficult places. At last I was over a gate,
where two horses were talking together; and1was
carried beyond them, and landed upon an high,
and beautiful, and. clean bank; and tnen I awoke.
The Answer of the Spir it to the dream.
“ Now I will answer thee this dream;
The T rek of Knowledge thou saw’st plain,
And on the branches many came;
And the true knowledge they will gain.
The branch thou stood’ston is my Word,
To prove thy writingscome from God ;
By all the truths that are past and gone,
But when the Learned do appear,
To prove the truth is not/ril dear;
Then thou wilt hang upon my word.
That is to come, ana say, thy Lord
Hath promis’d all*for to fulfil;
And they may judge it as they will.
If they say Satan told thee first,
. No more on it thou’lt say thou’lt trust;
But if thy calling is o f God,
He will fulfil the words he said ;
And on my words thou’lt trust to come,
And leave the truths are past and gone;
And then my arm shall strong appear,
And from all dangers thee 1
*
1
1clear;
* i »
And then my Bible all may see,
Just like thy writings all to be ;
That in like manner I’ll fulfil:
Then let the learned try their skill;
And deeply weigh how all was spoke,
And then discern how all did drop.
No enemy appear’d at first;
But in the end thy foes will burst;
And then the mysteries all will see—
So perfect true the end will be,
That every truth I shall perform,
And thou shalt find my out-stretchrd arm,
Safely to land thee on the bank-*
Of Jordan’s river all may drink.
For in tty dream thou’st not discern’d,
How it like thy father’s yard did corop ;
Because the gate was at the tint,
And at the end the river bur?t,
'And on the rising ground appear’d,
And perfectly h
o I’ll land thcethere.
So when the ice begins to break.
Perhaps thy footing it will slip;
And tnen thy dangers will appear,
And then my arm thou’lt find is near,
As thou didst find thy father’s hand.*
I said thou ’dst broke the ice for roan;
, And sopn their frozen hearts thou’lt see
Begin to break, for to drown thee;
And say ‘Vthe calling is to high
And Satan's*maHce fast will ny,
And say “ thou swell’st them up with pride
And all thetruth will be denied.
But then their letters at the first
Must free them all—no pride could burst
When they fhy writings first believ’d,
And therefore men must be deceiv’d,
To say their hearts were swell’d with pride,
When every truth is here applied.
But men must give their Go o the lie,
If they my words will now deny t
I said, that they who honour’d mb
I’d surely honour, they should see;
And now i’ll honour ill these men
That did awake to see it plain}
But those that did despise mb here,
Lightly esteem’d they shall appear.
So now from Eli all may see
The promise made to man to b e ,.
If he like David don’t become,
I say, a Samuel shall be known
To be a prophet in his room ;
And from a child it shall be known
That he the man-child must appear,
And all my office he dudl bear; *
Unless that man do humbly turn,
And like a David now do mourn;
But here thy heart is griev’d within—
Thou tfay*sta child must be too young;
And won’t my Kingdom now appear,
before a child the truth can clear ?
♦
Readpage 79, of the Answer of the Lord tothe Powers of DarktMgi,
73
Digitized by Google
Then Ihou dost say, it can’t be soon ;
And so your sun will cloud at noon.
But from the Bells,* I told thee first*
The calling of all Lands was plac'd.
So here the first bell does begin; .
And ’tis the first I shall call in,
And free this Land from, every tare ;
And you may judge my kingdom’s here
Then other Nations 1 shall call;
My warning it must go through all*
Before I make a final end.
And can all Lands-so shortly bend*
Before a child he can become
At twelve years old to talk with men ?
Or like young Samuel for to be, .
And learn my word like Timothy?
No, flvery Nation first I’ll try,
And then my firrows fast shall fly.
But how can { injustice come
To chain the rebel to his den*
And every wither’d branch cut off,
Before I do begin to graft
Some other fruit upon the tree ?
Then every root cut down must be 5
For when that Satan is chain’d down*
I sure shall shake this earthly grounds;
And all his legions he will draw—
It is a day no man does know 5
And ’tis a day no man cau bear,
But those that know the truth before;
And they with joy will hear the sound
When fast ray thunder doth abound:
And ’tis by thunder he will fall—
My lightning flash, my thunder roll;
And every bolt shall fall on he*
Till fast the Rebel he shall fiee.
And can these days so hasty come?
Then I roost sore destroy all lands.
But now iffEngland do awake*
And all my Bible undertake*
To shew them all that it is plain
My Sp ir it 's come to warn all mon.;
Then sure the tempter he shall fly,
I say, like cain—the years draw nigh
74
* Set Srfange Effect* ofFaith, page 1ST.
Digitized by Google
X
.
That I shall Hess this happy Land-r*
1 know, IVe thousands that wiQ stand
As valiant soldiers in the fight*
And Howshall make them men ofmight* >
And eve;ry land before them fall;
My Kingdom’s hastening last for all j
And England willpossess itfirst.
And wonders last fos all will burst.
You’ll find the storms are hastening on.
To wet die ground that's dry become |
And then the clouds I shall dismiss \
Because the rest1in me will trust,
That l shall surely leave behind—
You’ll find my words are like, the wind*
That shall the hearts of thousands shake-*4
*
rfis time for England to awake,
And call the Nations from afar,
And let them know ray Sp ie it ’s here.
But how the Nations aMl I call ?
Appear, vain men, and answer alh
How you my Bible will fulfil ?
1 tell you, ’Us beyond your skill.
Shall I in person come below l
To call all nations shall I go,
Because on earth I have no friend*
Like my Disciples, for to send ?
My sons and daughters from afar,
Shall I in person call them here)
Because my Spir it can’t be found
To visit man, or know my sound ?
Then Reprobates-yeo att*am t be—
Appear, vain men, and answer me
The following Words that I shaft name,
Or else I’ll put you all to shame.
How am I to reason with man ? It is written,
"now let us reason together, faith tf tt L o r d ;
for though your sins be as scarlet, I will make
them as wool; though they are as crimson, 1 will
make them white as snow.* How am I to plead
with men, and bring them all together in a Ipar
▼
alley, as a body of one people ? And bow is the
Digitized by Google
H olt Ghost to come and comfort you in my
Name, and bring all things to your remembrance ?
Or how is the prince of this world to be judged ?
or how is Satan to be cast down ? or how is he to
be chained down? and how is the Second Adam
to repair the loss of the First ? and how are the
Nations to be healed? How is my w i l l to be
done on earth as it is in heaven ? or how will you
bring men to the knowledge of the Lord, until
they know me from the greatest to the least? Let
those that reprove, answer these questions. And
let God be true, and every man a liar, that says,
I shall not fulfil my Bible according to my pro-
mise. But how can men judge me the God o f
truth ? When did I come the Mighty Coun­
sellor, the Prince of Peace, the Everlasting Father r
When was the throne of David established ? or
bow shall I be the desire of every Nation, without
my peaceable Kingdom being made known ? and
how shall it be made known without the Spirit o f
Prophecy P or how shall my Testimony be made
known to men without my Spirit to' warn them?**
76
pi
i
The following is the Answer to P eter’s drawing
his sword contrary to his Lord’s command.
*Like Peter all have done—
Against my W q* p you’ve drawn the
And me you all deny; -
But if like Peter you return*
And look to Calvary*
And see the rock where all is spilt*
And see the Rock, that stands*
On what foundation all isbuilt*
You’ll find me G od and Man.
Tbou say’st thou dost not understand j • '
Then 1 shall speak more plain *
Digitized by Google
For all are Peters in your land, *'
And acting so as men*
Is not my Bible all dented ?
And men are all asleep;
Then now the field is open’d wide;
Like Peter all may weep;
Then tears of grief shall bring relief
And tears of joy shall come ;
And they shall find I am the Rock
That they shall build upon.
So now like Peter all begin,
' And all like Peter end;
You’ll find that Rock in e ie r y heart#
For I’m the sinner’s friend.
So Peters here let men appear,
And lannch into the deep ;
Then fish by them hist caught may be,
Until the net does break;
Their labours I will surely bless,
If they will me obey,
And humbly come, as these have done#
Then I’ll exalt them high.
Thou know’st how they are sealed up—
HI make the mystery clear; .
Bat every proud and scornful heart
Shall certainly come low ;
And that I am the Lord above,
That every soul shall know.
Let nothing stumble nor surprise,
Of what is coming on—
If darkness now does cloud the eyes,
The day-light soon will come.
I’m not such fool, as thou dost say.
To act as men would have;
Their judgment they do all betray,
And did it at icv grave.
Their worldly wisdom then did shine*-*
I simply gave it up;
And simply from the sons of men
Receiv’d the dreadful stroke^
Simply, I say, all this was done,
To stoop so low to man;
JjkDd simply now for to invite
I surely have begun;
And simply I did ail men try ;
But wisely I shall end ; „
And they shall know by P r o p h s c ib ^
' My Biplk first was penn’d* *
77
Digitized by Google
And now; I say, ’tis going through.
The Revelation’s come;
And after that the Psalms* afe penn’d |
My Bi ble must be known.
Man was the first that did appear,
And singly stood alone;
The H blpmate I for him prepar’d .
Did sorely pull him down*
Simply the fruit she first did taste,
Ana gave it unto man ;
And simply then their dye was cast;
Their ruin then began.
For Satan’s &isdora there did shine,
To hold me to my W ord :
Now let men be as wise as he.
And all shall know the Lor to
This is the wisdom of a G od,
78
To deal with simple man;
But when my wisdom flies abroad,
That they have buik so high:
~Mv simple wisdom shewn to aH,
Must make them to comply.
And simply now the date is put
The 29th of May ;
And when this letter thou didst write,
The 23d thou say’st.t
Then sure the date it was forgot.
To man it must appear
But by the old stile this was put,
And man does surely err.
This is*a hidden mystery,
That man does not discern,
That thou didst write the date to me.
And brought it out to man:
And at thy folly men would laugh,
And ask how this could be;
That thou didst write the 23d
What happened in that day ?
The 29th, before the time, <
They’ll say that this was wrote:
From G od and Man now this is done, ..
And men discern it not.
So all thy writings are the same;
* Singing Psalms at the end of some Bibles.
t Joanna wrote about a sermon preached on the 29th of May, and by rmm
bake dated the letter the 23d* wfcirt was pfeseatcd onJune 4, that is, the tS A
sf May, old stile,
Digitized by Google
Fbrevery mystery's deep ;
And all thy conduct they do bjatne—
9Tis right and vyjong thou speak’s t
So right and wrong thou may’st go on.
For ought that they do care;
But when my sheep 1 do demand.
How will they all appear ?
W hat! perish in the wilderness ?
Will then my shepherds cry—
The wolf to carry off my sheep,
While they were standers by ?
And never stirred a step to save:
How will they all appear ?
The wounded the physician wants-—
The whole need not a cure*
So if my judgments do come on.
Let all men own me ju st:
For if the wolf do steal the one.
He surely may the rest
|s this the way my flock is kept,
. L e f t to the shepherd’s care l'
The wolf to drag them in the pit,
And left to perish there ?
Then now my anger who can blame,
If it should heat and burn ?
And like the Gospel, say to all,
To England 1 shall turn.”
79
A communication given to J o a n n a , in 1797* W
answer to mbn’s saying, that the first chosen were
aot religious enough for so great a calling, ifit
was of God ; for they said the twelve men, men*
tioned in the 12th chapter of Revelation, ought
to be the best men upon the earth. ’
u With thy remarks I'll first begin,
And answer next the sons of men—
For just like thee they all m#y wait,
Before they’ll find a man complete.
Perfection never was in man * *
And now to reason I’ll begin.
The fall of man must first be freed,
Before perfection ^rou will see.
Can man that’s tainted by the fall
Be free and have no sin at all ?
Digitized by Google
so
Then sure my blood was shed in vain.
If men perfection could obtain,
Till to the fulness they do come:
For your Redeemer must be known.
Till Death and Helt be conquer’d here.
Some spot in man there will appear;
Therefore my blood for man was shed;
If there’s no guilt, I’ve nought to plead.
That for their sins I did atone—
Their frailties to mb are known.
The world I’ll answer now like thee ;
If upright men they wait to see,
Wherein no spot can e’er be found.
The Marriage never can be crown’d.
For, like thy father, I do say,
These noble men are gone away.
That you can say did never sin ;
But now to reason I’ll begin:
As men so boldly blam’d my choice.
And think ’tis nottheir Maker’s choice ;
I bid the sons of men appear,
And bring me twelve that perfect are,
That no man living will condemn—
I say it can’t be done by man.
Therefore these very men I choose,
For to convince the stubborn Jews,
That no self-righteous man is here.
To say his merit this did clear.
How could the race of Adam stand
Guilty before the Lord,
If upright men were in your land.
Nor sinned in a word r”
A communication given to J oanna, in 1794,
cerning the Vials in 'the Revelation, and
from the Sealed Writings, opened Jan. 12,
Now from the Revelation thou begin:
They say the Vials were poured on the Sun,
This is a mystery to all unknown:
And now the chapter read thou o’er to me,
And then I’ll answer all the mystery.
For mendisputewhattheydon’t understand,
Ffar canfindoutwhatalt these plaguesdomeany
, con-
taken
1803*
Digitized by Google
But now I'll tell thee what thoii’lt find is true.
The past and present bring before thy view;
And from the vials thou must now begin;
They are already on the sqns of men.
The first on France is greatly poured there;
And now I'll make it plainly to appear:
Have not the plague, and pestilent disease,
The dreadful sword, and all such evil ways,
Been in their city ? but they do blaspheme;
And who to seek the Lord does now return ?
And now these things thou say’st they are not dear
That's in thy heart; for surely I am there.
But in what manner dost thou think 'twill be ?
In perfect likeness must it be to thee:
The perfect likeness thou dost little know ;
But further on thou from the vials must go.
For the first vial was poured on the earth;
In every nation you have heard a dearth ;
But yet much dearer things will surely be;
And now comes on the other mystery.
The dearth in France you know' did first abound, *
Before the other vial was poured down.
So in all lands it sure will be the same;
One vial is poured; another will come on.
The want of Brbad it certain will appear, 9
Before the other plagues tliey will come here, jT
That is the reason why the men will rise:
Because that darkness will destroy their eyes,
They will not say, that sin hath this decreed;
But their complaint will be for want of bread.
For when the vials are pour'd upon the earth,
Then every vial will soon bring on itself.
So with the vials thou hast ended here,
And on the sun the vials will soon appear;
But that’s a mystery I to thee will show.
No man by learning can these truths find out:
It is of God, I say, let no man doubt.
Thy pen’s put down, and thou no moreranst say:
Till I shall further on direct thy
And now thy way I surely will direct.
'Tis on the Sun the vial is poured out;
And fervent heat it shall so strongly burn, .
That oil the earth shallfeel it, and shaltlffffUrn;
Because the sun shall burn so very strong
That all the corn it surely will consume.
One vial after another fast shall go,
TUI every vial is poured here below.
F
81
/
Digitized by C j O O Q i e
In no fix’d kingdom have I e’er decreed
The burning sun shall burn up every weed.
For summer fallows I will then make bare,
To burn the weeds, and to destroy the tares J
And a good Husbandman I’ll surely be.—
But now comes on the other mystery ;
For now I’ll surely be a man of war ;
And in the Bible thou may’st read it there.
*Tis not the word, the meaning is the same ;
I’ll be a man of war in every land.
My sword shall glitter, that they all shall know,
My spear4is ready, and I’ve fix’d my bow.
Now what thou’st read thou dost not understand
But now consider what is in thy hand.
Unto Isaiah thou must now repair;
In Jeremiah thou wilt find it there;
And now these chapters thou’st read o'er to mb,
It doth appear a mystery unto thee;
But yet this mystery 111 to thee reveal, •
What I from ages have so long conceal'd.
I said unto Isaiah thou must g o :
In Jeremiah thou wilt find it too.
The Ten of Iron it is in thy hand ;
And they shall find .it so in every land.
And now Isaiah thou hast search'd all through,
And no appearance like it to thy view ;
Yet in it thou the Prophetess dost see;
As it was in ’for6 times now ’t shall surely be—
Great Peace in England after that shall b e ;
Because the remnant will believe in me,
'Tis the last plague that ever shall come here,
Before the Bridegroom doth to all appear—
Ahappy land when all the storms arc gone,
The wheat preserved, and the weeds I’ve burn'd.”
82
A communication given to J o a n n a , in 1794,
concerning the Second Chapter of Joel, and no\y
taken from the Sealed Writings, opened January
14, 1803. It begins from the ministers, in St.
Digitized by Google
%
Peter’s church, at Exeter, ordering the people to
leave the marble corner stones on each side of the
altar, and to kneel, in the front of it.
83
“ Now leave the Building and the Corner Stone ;
And every one to Z ion now must come*
For on the Corner Stone no longer lean ;
But the pull promises you alliftust'
Whereby your full atonement oof? is insjfe;
And the pull promise quickly shall be paid*
Now sing the song of Moses and the Lamb,
And every one to Zion now must come ;
And my pull promises they all must plead,
And they shall find mb in the breaking h^ad.
Now back to Joel I do bid thee turn—
While it was reading it made thee for to mourn;
Because that they so dreadful did appear;
And every soul shall find that day is near—
A day of mourning it will surely be
To those that do not put their trust in me.
My voice most dreadful every soul shall hear—
Saints fhail rejoice, while sinners’ hearts shall fear, ,
The Birth shall auake, and trembj^ at my word.
The n |fft£ e dark’ned, and be turn’d to olood.
The m ip b g of that word thou dost not know.
Why f>m the moon such streams of blood do flow*
So l hive told thee that the moon is new.
As a sure'token all these things are true.
But yet the mystery they can never find,
Till 1 shall open the benighted mind.
Then why should men pretend tor to dispute
What they don’t understand, nor can find out ?
*Tis from the wise and prudent men conceal'd
What 1 to thee intend for to reveal; v
And I their eyes will open for to see
That I alone reveal’d these things to thee.
But Oh ! the mysteries are not yet re v e a P ^ ^ ^
What 1 from ages have so long co n ced tf^H feh
Because the type must from the
The moon’s a type—that every s
• And when the moon is turned into
Then all is cleansed by that heavenlyffoo^r
The sun be darkened at that very time, g
It plainly shows, that sin shall have an end. *
Toe stars from heaven they shall surely fall, . ,
Because you will not want their light at all.
F 2
Digitized by ( j O O ^ l c
Now further on you must from Joel go,
If deeper mysteries you do wish to know.
Your plough-shares into swords you all must turn,
And every weak man say, that ne is strong:
Because that persecution will arise;
Darkness ahd sin will cover many eyes;
And True Religion men will sure pull down,
If they don’t firmly stand to keep their ground.
A dreadful slaughter there will surely b e;
But let not the$e things ever trouble thee.
So now remember your baptismal vow ;
* Which thing is right, as all men do allow;
Under C hrist’s banner you must manful fight;
(This things allowed by all men to be right)
Against the iforId, the flesh, against the devil—
These things were meant when days were coming evil.
Then as C hrist’s soldiers you must manful stand;
You know your Master gave this strict command,
That he which had no sword must go and buy;
The time to use know is drawing nigh.
For Christ affirm’d his servants should have fought,
Had it been then ; but surely it was not.
Therefore he did submit their frowns to beat,
And charged Peter lb put up his spear; ^ J
But then he said his Kingdom was not herel j
But when his Kingdom doth come here below, J
My saints must fight, and they will find it so* y
For Jobl’s prophecies are drawing near; J
Unto mankind I’ll make them all appear.” ?
84
A communication given to #
JoANNA, in 1794.
concerning Stephen being stoned to death, and
taken f^om her ^Sealed Writings, opened Jam 12r
1803.
“ Stephen wa«my disciple then of old;
And now the mysteries I’ll to thee unfold;
W o r his R e l ig io n be was ston’d to death,
As now the record of the Scripture saith ;
And with the zealous people there was Paul,
* When at his feet they laid their clothing all.
#
Digitized by Google
And now this mystery I w il here bm m I,
The meaning ofit I'll to thee reveal i
The clothing of mankind I’ll strip them all*
And lay their clothing at the feet of Paul, i
For in men's wisdom they do sore abound.
Until from Heaven they'll hear a different sound y
And then like Paul they'll suddenly obey;
Before his face I’ll shew the perfect w ay;
And such a persecution will begin.—
*
Thy mind is puzzled, and thy pen’s put down;
And this shall be a sure and certain sign;
They shall be puzzled, and their swords thailfefl;
Or in mine anger 111 consume them all,
As Stephen, by the malice here of men,
Was stoned to death, and did his life lay down.
The Heavens were opened then for to receive
His dying spirit that to G oo he gave. 4
So now the things shall turn the other w a y ^ •
Why art thou puzzled, and no more cans! say »
Then if ’tis chang’d *tis Hell must open note.
To such as do myjudgments disallow;
For I no longer will m>mit to man.
Unless it be such that truly fear my Name;
My patience is already wearied out;
My anger’s kindled; 'tis too lam to doubts-.
For to dispute whether these things are true;
The time draws near, and they will find 'tis so.
Nuw from the Gospel* thou begin to write.
What things afore-lime were recorded there.
Were for your learning, now it doth appear;
That ye through patience might the Scriptures know
And God’s Salvation to you all I’ll show.
Now be like-minded in this very thing ; *
To Christ together all these glories bring,
That in thy writings 1 before have said—
Thy Saviour C hrist was truly circumcis’d^
And now the Qod of hope will give you peace
In this belief, and you must give him praise.
And now the Gospel read thou o'er to MR;
Theseare the words thy Saviouji he did say,
Signs in the heavens thou wilt surely see ;
But surdy further on thou can’s! not say.t
Tilll shall furtheron direct thy way. *
* TW test ofa •ermaa pa the Fast Day—Lute xiii, f . *
♦ Here (he voice stopt speaking to her. ^
85
Digitized by Google
For when the fig-trees shoot their leaves most green,
The winter’s past, the summer’s coming on ;
And then great joy may unto you appear ;
Because that your salvation now draws near.
For then the Kingdom of Heaven’s nigh at hand;
Then sing for joy, O thou enlighten’dland.
Therefore 1 all these things have spoken in verse.
That you piay sing to your Maker’s praise;
And if your voices cannot reach the tune,
Let it be altered by the sonsofmen—
And from thy observation now begin :
The Bishop bid the Minister to come,
* Or sent his servant—that wa^j ust the same ;
And soon the minister with blushes came;
And then he charged, that young Timothy
Should in his faith continue for to be;
As he was well assured from whom, he’d learn’d,
He bid him to go on, and not return.*
So in like manner it will surely be ;
I’ll send my Servants as I promis’d thee;
And then with faith and fear they’ll hasty come,
And bid thee, like young Timothy, go on.’’
86
«
i
\
A communication given to J o a n n a , in October
1794, in answer to a dream which she had, where?
in she thought she had ap engagement with Satan,
and had overthrown him into a pit.
The Answer of the Sp i r i t .
*
*So pill it happen to the powers of darkness:
they will be cut short. -Satan, thg great accuser o f
the brethren, will be cast down. Woe to the in­
habitants ofthe lrarkofsinners; for Satan will come
down in great power and wrath, because he kn<ws
}iis reign will be. short. Sin will abound, grace will
• In Exeter, it S t Peter’s Church, (he minister continued so long in
vestry after.prayers, that the bishop sent his servant for him,—He took
text from t Timothy iii. 14.
Digitized by Google
'
f
f
87
much more abound. The Power of Christ will
be strong in believers; the power of Satan will be
strong in sinners. As it was in Heaven; so will
it be on earth. Michael and the dragon fought;
but could not cast him out of heaven, till the
So n of G o d came, and thrust him out. So will
it be on earth, when Satan is chained dawn: per­
secution must first arise; saints and sinners must
first fight. That time will be short and sharp.
Then will the pillars of the heavens be shaken, and
the foundation of the earth will tremble; the seas
will roar and make a great noise; men’s hearts
failing them for very trouble, because they did not
believe these things would be. Now let all men
search the scriptures, for they testify of these
things,
tf The solemn midnight cry—
The Bri df.gr oom’s voice you’ll hear,
The Spirit and the Bride affirm,
His coming now draws near.
The heavenly pillars soon will shake,
And earth’s foundation mourn ;
Therefore ’tis time loudly to cry
To sinners, to return—
While mercy waiteth at the door,
The Saviour,doth invite, '
For to come in and sup with him,
Before the door is shut.'.’
The following communication was given to
J o a n n a , in February 1798, and now taken from
Digitized by Google'
her Sealed Writings, opened January 12th, 1803,
in answer to a Jew, who said, it was presumptuous
in her to say, that the Lord would reveal his
secrets to her.—His words were answered by the
S p i r i t , in the following manner:
✓
“ What foundation had they (theJews) to believe
I ever revealed my Will to them ? Was it for their
{
goodness, or their merit ? Did not Esau seek the
ife of his brother Jacob? Did not Jacob's sons
seek the life of their brother Joseph ? First, they
conspired to take his life; next, they changed
their intentions, and sold him for a bond-slave ;
and then deceived their father with lies. Was not
David guilty of murder and adultery ? Trace the
life of Solomon, with all his wisdom/ The prophets
that were good men, they (the Jews) put to death.
Let them trace back all the actions of their fore­
fathers, and see, why they should be so presump­
tuous, to believe I ever told my mind, or will, to
such a people. Are there any crimes their fore­
fathers have not done r But did I condemn the
innocent with the guilty ? or the just with the
unjust ? If I made the Jews, I ask them, who made
the Gentiles? Was I not the Maker of both? Then
now let them look to the apostles and martyrs, who
suffered death for my sake. Was it not a stronger
proof of love, than ever was shewn by any nation,
save the Jews ? Then now let us reason together.
If I conceal nothiug from the Jews, why should I
from the Gentiles, who owmed m e for their Sa­
viour, when the Jews denied m e? If they de­
ny the oath which I sware unto Abraham ; then
let them deny the oath which I sware uuto thee.
If they believe the former; let them judge the
latter. For my oath is made alike unto both ; and
I will no more forget the one than the other.
88
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
Shall 1 forget a people that are always with m e , and
relying upon my mercies for salvation ? -not trust-
ing to their own merits, but to my mercies: and
mercy in me they shaHfind. But, on what founda­
tion do you build, that trust to yourselves r Then ye
must be perfect men without spot or blemish ; and
where is the man tbatcan stand before me ? Thou
sayestno man is perfect—then no man can be justi­
fied by the Law. Butnow let them bring forth their
arguments, and shew their strong reasons, on what
foundation they build theirfaith; and why theirpro­
phets were put to death; why they deny the Gospel
of Christ; why they were scattered over the face
of the earth, their houses become desolate, and
their holy temple destroyed. Did not the Gos­
pel confirm the Law? The N e w Testament the
Old ? This being done must make them appear a
despised people, and impostors: saying, their fa­
thers were false writers, and affirming what never
was; and therefore the curse ofGod was upon them
for their lies, and not for their unbelief. But now
the G o s p e l must clear the L aw : and what they
lost by their unbelief, they shall now gain by their
faith, if they turn unto m e , and believe the Gos p e l .
I have thus called them to answer for themselves.
Let them bring forth their reasons, and I will bring
forth mine : and then let us reason together. The
words of Isaiah were sealed up from man: but the
end of the Revelation was not to be sealed up;
though the words of Isaiah seem more plain to man
than the Revelation.4 But here is the mystery: by
the Revelation all the B i b l e will be explained.
Mark how close the words are joined together—
“ I am the R o o t and O f f s p r i n g of David, and
the Bright and Morning Star— The S p i r i t and
the B r id e say come.”
89
Digitized by Google
Then now in verse 1 will begin
To answer here the sons of men.
The Root of Jesse doth appear :
The Spir it and the Bride are here.
Can man this chapter now explain ?
The morning star by thee was seen;
And all these tumults were foretold;
And every truth 1
*
1
1now unfold.
So let the learned men look deep;
And let the Jews awake and weep;
And all thy reasons call to mind,
Ahd pen them here; the end they’ll find:
For then 1
*
1
1 answer thee again,
And all thy pondering heart explain.**
90
The following communication was given to Jo­
anna, July 19, 1798, and now taken from her Seal­
ed Writings, opened January 12, 1803.
My mind and heart were torn with different pas­
sions. Thevariousopinionsofmankind; thedoubts
and fears of those that believed; the carelessness o f
ministers who were chosen by the same S p i b it that
directs me; I was at a loss to account for; as the
hearts of all men were in the hands of the L o r d ,
and h e turns them as the rivers of waters, why
not incline these men to search out the truth ?
Why are they .chosen who keep it back ?
To this inquiry I was answered by the Spirit in
the following manner.
“ Just is thy inquiry, why such men were chosen.
How could my B i b l e come truer How could
the pride of the great be brought low ? How could
men become as little children ? How could they be
born again ? Or how could the weak, foolish things
of this world confound the great and mighty ?
How could the wisdom of the wise men perish ?
How could the understanding of the prudent men
he hid ? How could the bows of the mighty men be
* . ’
Digitized by Google
broken? How could he that stnmbleth be girt with
strength ? How could I ask men if their ways were
equal, and tniue unequal? Or how could I tell them
that my ways were equal, and theirs unequal?
How could I demand of them to bring forth their
arguments, and shew their strong reasons? Or how
could I do marvellous things among them, if I
should act according to thy weak understanding?
How could I make the blind to see, the deaf
to hear, or the leper to be cleansed ? Or how
could I bring men out of themselves, if I had
chosen twelve men to come at their first call; and
in seeing, to see; and in hearing, to understand ?
• Then man must be blameless, and all the Pro­
phets* words perish, and thy former writings be
false. What blame could I cast on man, as he
cast on me at first ? — “ The tooman-thau gavest
me, beguiled me, and 1 did ta t” Here was Para­
dise lost. The man copied after the woman in
. disobedience, and cast the blame on his Maker.
Now here let Paradise be regained. The woman
you shall all 6ee stands, in perfect obedience to m e ,
and in her writings hatn told you what is m t
mind and will. Now bring forth your arguments,
shew your strong reasons, why you refuse to hear
her. Are your ways equal, to cast your blame
on your M a k e r , for giving you the woman?
And are mine unequal, to complete your happi­
ness by her ? If I cast down, shall I not raise
up ? If I wound, shall I not heal ? If I kill, shall
1 not make alive ? If I made the woman, and she
completed your misery at first, shall I notin the end
make her to complete your joy ? Then, now let us
reason together: though your sins are as scarlet, I
will makethem as w ool; though they areas crimson,
I will make them as white as snow, if you will copy
after her at last, as Adam did at first. What have
Jrequired of thee, Oman, hut a yoke that is easy,
ft
91
Digitized by b o o Q l e
and a burden that is light ? What self-confidence
is in you now ? What fig-leaves will ye sew to­
gether r Or where will ye hide yourselves from my
presence ? Will ye now say, the woman beguiled
you, and ye did eat ? Or will vou say, ye are
wiser than your forefathers, and have hid your­
selves from the folly of a woman ? Then now let
both stand together, and see which is naked, or
which Hath broken all my Laws. J udee no one
unheard; pity the afflicted; pray for those who
are tried and tempted; reprove, exhort, with all
meekness and patience. If ye love me, feed my
sheep; if ye love m e , feed my lambs. But here
ye must stand guilty. Then now let your mouths
be stopped, and every tongue be silent, when I
come to demand the sheep from your hands. Other
sheep I have, that ye know not: whose minds your
conduct hath greatly liurt. Therefore, wake ye mi­
nisters, mourn ye priests. Let my shepherds now
. awake, for the day of the Lord is at hand; and
I will gather all nations to battle by the Sriuir,
or by the Sword, till ye own my ways are equal,
and your’s unequal. Now search the Scriptures, for
. in them ye think ye have eternal life. All must
be fulfilled; all must be accomplished; before your
redemption can come, or the fulness of the Gentiles
be. Then shall the meek inherit the earth; the
humble be exalted; the proud abased; honour sbaH
follow humility; the haughty spirit shall fall. But
when was this fulfilled ? The proud and not the
meek inherit the earth; the wise is judged to act
wisely; the prudent man thinks he acts prudently;
pride goeth down to the grave, and his pomp fol­
lows him, while the meek and humble are trodden
-under foot; the high hills are exalted ; and the
mountains are not brought low. But now 1 will
\veigh the mountains in a balance, and the little
*
9*
Digitized by Google
hills in a scale. But how will this be accomplished
by the wisdom of the wise and learned ? Have I
not said heaven and earth shall pass away; but
my Words shall not pass away; this generation
shall not pass away till all is fulfilled ? Where is
the mao that can explain it ? Or where is the man
that can tell by his learning, how it will be brought
to pass ? But the end is at hand. The type of
these Twelve Men is a mystery which none can
find out, why they were chosen, and why they
never saw thee, to know on what grounds thou
buildest. If I speak after the manner of men, they
are ungrateful, ungenerous, and unjust. I mean
***** and *•***•**. As thy worldly master pays so
much regard to their honour, and so greatly re­
spects them; they ought for his sake, if not for
thy sake, to have seen thee, and to have endear
voured to convince thee o f what they did not be*
lieve. But here they shewed a disregard to thy
worldly master, as well as to thee. Would they
have liked that one of their servants should have
been treated with such disregard ? I tell thee no.
They would have taken it as an affront offered to
themselves. And now I will provoke thee to an­
ger, and make thee full of the fury of the Lord ;
and my danger shall be kindled m ihee, and my
S p i r i t shall be upon dice. For my law shall be
written in thy heart. Then shall men tremble be­
fore thee, and own, with Confusion, that they have
done wrong. The same Spirit I will put in my
shepherds, and will provoke them to anger and to
jealousy; for, they shall say as the woman did to
Pieter, “ Thy speech betrayeth thee" When thoo
seest how these men will be brought to stand the
trial with the rest, then I will tell thee how thy
writings will be accomplished.
93
Digitized by Google
For I'll provoke by anger and by love,
Till they the truth of ail shall prove.
As he did tremble, at the grave,
Over the dead he could not save;
And tears stood gushing in bis eyes;
Just so he’ll be when 1 surprise
Him with another letter here,
That from’my shepherds must appear.
I tell thee plain I know the man,
And know where Satan’s footsteps come,
And all his arts I know before.
And now to make my Bible clear,
I tell thee, I did choose these men,
And let the Power <^fDarkness reign,
Upon their heads, and in their hearts,
Till in the end for it they’ll smart”
94
The following communication was given to
Joanna, on March 11, 1803, in answer to people’s
saying, “ the Lord would never reveal his will to
a woman : if he revealed his will at all, it would
be to learned men and ministers.”
The Answer of the Spirit to the above Words.
“ I said, when I was here in the body, I came'
to fulfil the Law of God, and the Prophets;
and heaven and earth shall pass away, but my
Words shall not pass away ; this generation shall
not pass away, till all is fulfilled. And did I not
say, I thank Thee, O Father, because thou hast
concealed these things from the wise, the learned,
and the prudent men, and hast revealed them
unto babes ? Did not the Prophets say, the
wisdom of the wise men should perish, and the
understanding of the prudent men should be hid ?
For in the latter days he would do marvellous
things amongst them. Now bring forth my Bible,
and shew m e where I promised to reveal my
secrets to a learned man. I never promised it,
Digitized by L a O O Q i e
neither will I do it Eveiy thing shall come to
my Bible, and. from my Bible I demand every
man to answer for themselves: and they shall
find that God is true, and every man a liar, who
denies the truth of my Bible, and wrests the
Scriptures to his own condemnation. I have
shewed you ob record, that my C h u r c h mutt be
brought in by a Woman. As the Woman bore
m e into the world; so she shall bear the Fruits of
the Spirit and the strongest testimony of m e .
But as I and my Disciples went on together, to
fulfil the words my mother affirmed were told her
by the angels; so will I now go on with my Dis-
‘ciples, who jpin with the Woman, in faith and
belief, conquering and to conquer, till I have
established my K in g d o m on earth as it is in
heaven. No man could believe my testimony, aa
being the Son of G o d , without believing the tes­
timony of my M o t h e r ; and no man can believe
the testimony of my coming in the S p i r i t , to
bring in my spirituaCkingdom, before 1 have re­
vealed myself to a Woman, as the Bride, by my
Sp i r i t , that I am coming as the B r id e g r o o m ;
and all flesh shall know 1 am already come in the
Spirit, and never will return till my K i k o d o m is
established on the earth as it is in heaven. For as
I have stooped so low, to submit in words to the
simplicity of men, so will I bring men to the simi­
litude of angels. And here I have shewed myself
a pattern to mankind. Before honour cometh
humility : I have humbled -myself, before I am
exalted by all men as a P r i n c e and S a v i o u r ^
conquering and to conquer, treading down all uiy
enemies under my feet.
Andmenmst copy nowthesame.
Ifthey will know myevery name#
Sonowmy Bulb 1demand—
It is byil youail moststand;
9&
Digitized by Google
96
And as tike man 1 did appear,
I say, like man. I’ll answer here.
You say the kings receive their crown.
And ^tis by heirship they are found;
Then tell set where the heirs do come ;
Is it from woman, or from man ?
Let all the learned Jaen appear,
And tell ms if they bring the heirs,
From Any law that they have got:
The mystery’s deep, beyond yoor thought.
I plac’d my Bible ail like man,
That heaven and earth alike might come:
And now like man 1 do appear,
To prove the Woman brings the Heirs,
That must possess my every Crown;
And so the end shall now be found.
For if I ever join with man,
I said like him, I’d lay my t>fan:
And so my plan I’ve shew’d it plain*-*
Look deep yc learned sons of men,
And tell mb how you’ll bring an Heir,
Before the Woman doth appear.
Then I must change my Fatner’s WHI,
And say 1come for to mlfit
The will of Satan—not of G od;
For Satan’s will must now be know’d,
Who made the Woman prove your Curse—*
My Father’s Wisdom all must miss,
If I should act as weak as men,
To bring my Kingdom in by them,
Without the Woman to appear—
My Father’s helpmate perish’d there:
Then Satan, he must win the day,
And on my Father ail must lay,
1 say, at first, the every blame,
To make the Woman as your shame;
And I can ne’er complete his will;
The serpent’s heart I cannot chill.
If 1 don’t make him for to wear
The poisonous coat he made for her;
To wrest the dagger from his hand,
And it bade on him again,
That t levell’d at her heart,
Turn back the blow: then he must smart,
Because ’tis blotted oat from she—
Thou blott’st the S, and so ’t shah be.
So now in print let this appear,
And ask the learned how tney’tt clear
Digitized by Google
That I can do my Father's will,
Without his words I do fulfil,
To prove that man’s not good alone—
M b and my prophets they’ve unthron’d ;
And my disciples shar’d the same,
And judg’d not good; but bore the blame
In every age was cast by man ;
But noyr your H elpmate strong is come,
That earth and hell may rage in vain—
Your every victory now I’ll gain,
To prove your Helpmate now is good;
And I’ll fulfil my F ather’s word :
And Satan’s arts are all in vain—
By his own sword he shall be slain*
So let the learned now appear,
And answer what I’ve spoken here;
And then I’ll answer thee again—
Men with their Maker now contend,
I say, as Adam did at first;
And now’s the time for mb to burst,
And cast the every fault on man.
As you reject her written hand,
Which you so soon receiv’d at first,
To have the evil fruit to burst,
M b and my followers for to kill;
And so your guilt hangs hovering still,
Until I do turn back the dart,
And plunge it in the rebel’s heart.
By the same hand that he betray’d—
Therefore the Oath to thee was made:
And where’s the man will blame thy prayer ?
M y Kingdom he shall never share.
So here’s the Justice of a G od :
Embrace my Love, or fear my Rod.”
> 97
The following communication was given to
Joanna, in January, 1798, and now taken from
her Sealed Writings, opened January 12th, 1803,.
in answer to her repeated letters sent to ministers,
entreating to know from what Spirit her writings
came; and who but a God could foreknow all
the events which were coming on the Earth; but
as they kept silence, she was auswered by tha
Spirit, in the following manner;
c
Digitized by Google
If in thy writings thou dost err,
And dost not write by mb,
To steal my Name, will no one blame ?
What forgery is here ?
If from her head she this doth spread*
And make my people err ;
If it be so, will you let go
Sins of the blackest die ?
And other sheep to poison too
Sltall this disorder Ay
Amongst my flock ? IVe ordered not ?
But judges plac’d below :
Be Law and Gospel both forgot l
Will no man justice do 2
Doth she appeal, and man now fail
To bring the trial on ?
But judgment clear must now appear.
Before you do condemn.
In things so great let no deceit
In any man be found ;
The prisoner here must now appear.
And Man call back the sound—
“ The Woman, see, thou gav’st to us.
“ Hath plac’d into our bands
u For to call back our destiny,
" In Paradise to*stand.” *
By her ’twas lost, and dear the cost*
By God and Man ’twas paid; <
Then now by her, you all shall see,
, I’ll break the Serpent’s head.
So judges here you must appear*
The weighty trial’s come—
All sins and blasphemies I’ll deal*
That have been done my man;
But here’s a sin, if you begin,
Against the Holy Ghost:
If you condemn before you’ve seen*
Then you must stire be lost.
Now to condemn I shall explain ;
This mystery I’ll, make clear ;
Jf you do say *tis her wise brain.
Before you have prov’d it here;
Or if you say, another way,
That wisdom you see none.
When all together you do weigh.
Your senses must be gone ;
Or Satan here must strong appear ;
A Judas must be found.
But now that roan I’ll never clear—
No more’s atonement found*
99
Digitized by Google
The Woman’s free, you all shall see*
WHI von like Satan come
To foil Fier here, when she is clearf
And lead her back again ?
Though this by roan cannot be done—
Her standing Pve made sure ;
And deeply I have foiled man,
To prove that 1 am here;
That they may see the mystery.
And judge themselves but men:
Their wisdom cannot equal mine,
And all their power is gone.
For could you lead a simple maid
In by-paths so unknown ?
Would you not see herjealousy,
And then turn back again i ”
99
The following communication was given to Jo*
anna, on the 12th of March, 1803, in answer to
men’s saying, there were Spirits invisible, neither of'
God or of the Devil, that couversed with mankind;
which persons have said in Swedenborg’s name,
and which Joanna does not believe to be true.
The Answer of the Spirit to the above Words.
“ As your faith is, it shall happen unto you; as
my words are left on record; and the trutn of my
Words and Gospel I am now fulfilling. Thy
faith is, that the gates of hell cannot prevail
against a true believer in me ; and my honour
is engaged to save all that believe in me, accord­
ing to my promises. Thou inquiiest to know
what Spires there are invisible. 1 answer, but
Two—the good and bad. The good are under
my power and directions; the bad are under the
Power of Darkness. And now I will tell thee
why all must come to the standard of the Church;
becauseyour prayers are— “ to be kept from all false
doctrine, heresy, and schism, and all contempt of
my words and commandments.” And now I tell
g 2
Digitized by Google
thee, they are bringing in heresy and schism, anda
full contempt of my words and commands. My
command is, to believe in he, as the Three-one-
G od : God the Father, who created you; God
the Son, who died to redeem you; and God the
Holy Ghost, who shall sanctify and preserveyou
•from all the Powers of Darkness. This is my pro­
mise left on record ; and this command is given
to man to rely wholly on his God. But how
can he rely on his God, if I do not keep yon,
. as I have promised, as the apple of my eye,
' as in the hollow of my hand, and to carry the
lambs in'*my bosom, and gently to lead those
that are with young ? And I have promised they
shall have the Witness of God, to bear witness
with their spirits, that they are the children of
G od, whereby ye cry, “ Abba, Father, my
L ord, and my God.” But here they are making
a contempt of all my words and promises made
to man; and they are now going into all false
doctrine, and putting aside all true belief in me.
How can I be the True Sh e p h e r d , if I do not
take care of my Sheep, but suffer an enemy to
destroy them ? How can my Sheep know my voice
and follow me wheresoever 1 go, if there are
worlds of spirits to deceive you ? O foolish people,
and unwise! Who hath bewitched you to depart
from the True and Living God? Do 1 not
fill heaven with my majesty, earth with my
goodness, and hell with my terrors? Who that
shall dare to come and deceive you, while you rely
upon your God? But I said in my gospel, that
I should scarce find faith upon the earth at my
second coming, and that they would build their
houses upon the sand, and great would be the fall,
thereof. But how could these scriptures be ful­
filled, if Satan had not found a way to draw
men’s hearts and minds from the True and Living
^100
Digitized by L a O O Q i e .
Goo, hewing out to themselves broken cisterns,
that yield no living water ?
101
For every stream is now dried up by man:
They’ve plac’d my Bible by their every plan;
Ana ifmy Spirit did not visit here,
To shew my Bib l i, and to prove it clear,
I see that all would build upon the sand—
*
The grossest darkness now is in your land;
And by this darkness you would perish all,
The day of vengeance on your heads must fell.
And by my anger I the world should bum.
Blind leaders of the blind, I see, are come ;
And every soul will find the ditch is near.
To meet your God, O Israel, now prepaifey
And tell me where your third Spirit must be.
I told you there was Satan; now judge ye.
I said, my Father and Myself were Onb 5
I said, the Holt G host from both did come;
And those that with us now would not appear,
1 said that ofthe devil sure they were.
But now my Bible I ofall demand;
Where any other power I said did stand.
To gain an influence o’er the human mind ?
Now, like the Jews, I see, you’re equally blind;
And like the Romanpower* you all appear—
Like Papes to pardon, you a world plac’d there,
That hath a power equal with a Goo,
For to direct and guiae your every word;
And so my Bible all have thrown aside.
Once more, I tell you, let the cause be tried;
And to my Bible I do bid all come;
Or else, I tell you, I’ll destroy your land,
The plague and famine, and the sword appear:
I say, my anger, it shall kindle here.
If in this manner England does go on.
I see my Bible every one does bum ;
And in my anger I shall burn the whole;
lik e Sodom and Gomorrah is vour fall.
For where’s the man who can Delieve in mb,
If that a world of Popes are made by ye ?
That is a world which hath power to assume
That they are Gods above, and now come down.
But this ray Apostles warn’d you of before;
Such hellish doctrine would from man appear;
And so my G ospel it would be denied. —
And now I’ll speakconcerningofthe Bride*
V
✓
r
Digitized by Google
You know the Spir it with the Bride roust come,
To warn all nations what is hastening on :
And if the Church can now the Bride appear.
Then every one must prove my Sp ir it 's there,
To warn them all that 1 am at the door:
For he that's bom of G od must nowappear
For to affirm he knows the things of God ;
And by my Spirit must these things be know'd.
So now in print let all these words appear:
This is die reason I have linger'd here,
The madness of men’s folly lor to stop;
If they repent, 1 tell thee, all may hope;
Because in Love to Man I did come down;
For Satan’s art in every age was found
To work with power on die sons of men;
And new inventions always did begin
To wrest my Bible, as 1 said before ;
And by his arts he made the Jews to e rr;
And now the Gentiles he would make the same,
Had not my Spir it strong unto thee come,
To prove my Bible and my Gospel true:
There's but one G od, that every soul shall know,
*That is ill power, in the T rinity—
The Father, Son, and H oly Ghost, these threas
There is a Devil, 1 did say before;
And like a lion he doth daily roar,
For to destroy where he can power gain—
But now the other power let man explain."
102
The following communication was given to Jo­
anna, on the 13th day of March, 1803, in an­
swer to people’s saying her writings were blasphemy,
and came from the devil; and they would put a
stop to them.
I was answered by the Spirit in the! following
manner’
:—
“ The land is come into such a situation, that
I now tell thee and all mankind, there is nothing
but thy writings which will save the nation
from utter ruin. Not that they are thy words;
but because they are my w o r d s ; and the word
is gone out of my mouth — I will preserve
to myself all that will obey my command?.
Digitized by Google
t
And now 1 tell thee, was it in the power of men
to stop thy hand, orthy writings from going abroad
in the world, as they stopped my life on the
Cross, saying, My blood be on them and their
children; now should this be the presumptuous
conduct of this nation ; 1 tell thee and all'men,
they should perish in their presumption, as the
Jews didin tneirs; and your houses should be left
unto you desolate, and your land utterly destroyed.
For, if I spared not the Natural Branches, but
eut them off, because of their unbelief, and o f.
their presumptuous conduct; 1 will not spare the
Wild Olive, that is grafted in, if they act with
the same presumption, because of their unbelief.
All fiesh snail know the sin was not so great, to
say, 1 worked miracles through Beelzebub, the
prince of the devils, as it is to say thy prophecies
came from the devil. For then they make him
the perfect God of heaven and earth. Here thou
art lost in wonder, how they make him the God
of Heaven as well as the Earth. I answer: the
sun and the rain, the fruits of the earth, and
the fruits of the spirit, are in the hands of*
God alone. Now, if they say the devil told
thee, in 179b, what the harvest should be
in 1797, to make the grain as soft as men; if
they believe thou hast this foreknowledge of thy­
self, and when the harvest was near approaching,
to tell thee on the S2d of July, 179?, that he
(meaning the devil) would be as silent to their
prayers, as the ministers were to thy letters, and
Satanhad the power to command the rain to fulfil
his words; they make him the God of all power in
heavenand earth. Will they say the devil told thee,
inAugust, 1798,what the harvestshould be in 1799,
ifunbeliefshould abound ? and that, unbelief did a-
bound, and the weathercame perfectly as thou didst
foretel. And again, when thecom was ripe unto bar-
105
Digitized by Google
vest, and all menjudged the harvest would begood;
I then shewed thee in a dream, the Hoods I would
bring upon the harvest; and in two days the floods
came, and ceased not till the grain was in a great
measure destroyed, as 1 told you. I then told thee,
that the land should be burnt up, by the heat
of my anger, in the following year; as they had
made the devil the God of the rain, to threaten,
and have power to fullil, I tried them another
way, by the burning sun ; and sent it, as I threat­
ened, because of their unbelief. But when I found
men were so wholly blind and ignorant, to make
1 the devil the God of the sun ; to say, that he
threatened, and accomplished; I tried them ano­
ther way; seeing they would perish for want o f
knowledge. I then ordered thee to try the World,
at large; and promised to stop my judgments, if
I found but five righteous men to search out the
truth of these things. I found more than five,
and stopped thejudgments for their sakes. I com­
manded thee to put it in print, before it was ful­
filled ; and then I fulfilled my promise. —'Now, if
men will be so presumptuous, to say all this came
from the devil, they must make him, as I said,
the God of heaven and earth, to have power to
send blessings or cursings, as men obeyed or
disobeyed him; and my name and power must
have been forgotten and despised, by every soul
that thus believes; and they.must have a strong
presumptuous faith, worse than! the Jews.
And if men thus presume to boast,
I tell them all that they are lost, '
A total famine shall appear,
When I’ve fulfill’d my Promise here,
The three years plenty to abound;;
I say, your harvest shall be found
Much worse than any that is past:
For on you shall my fury burst,
If you deny me for a G od
Neither to bless, nor send a rod ;
104
Digitized by L i O O Q l e
But aBfrom Satan did appear-
Then him you both must love and fear;
And treat your Maker with disdain.
I’ve neither power to rule nor reign,
If that by Satan this is done.
Awake, ye simple sons of men !
I see your wisdom all is lost,
And different doctrines men do boast;
like Babel’s builders all are come
To build to heaven, by your weak hands $
And jast like them you all appear-^
Your different faith is every where,
That must your building all confound;
For so you differ in the sound:
My Bible’s plac’d so many ways.
And all men judge it as they please,
Till true religion all is gone,
And you’ve no Rock to build upon*
For sects and parties all dispute,
That all are wrong, but they are right;
<And so your preaching’s for debate;
And every passion men do heat,
I say, to anger—not to love. *
Your differentjudgments now do proven
Thatye no judgment have at all:
Like Babel’s builders all must fail $ *
And I shall take the cause in hand.
And prove my Bible as it stands ;
For every weight shall now turn round;
Just like thy dream shall all be found.
The organ is the word of God, '
That sounds in thee, it shall be know’d ;
The weights were hanging, they were two.
It is the Gospel and the Law,
That both together did appear;
And now the mysteries 1 shall dear *
As by two irons both were found,
I say, to hang, and to turn round;
And now I’Utell thee, round they’ll lam,
Till IVe fulfill’d them both for man.
The Law and Gospel both appear;
Now search your Bible, and be clear;
I’ll shew the weight was made at first—
The Man and Woman both did burst.
And in'one weightthey both were found ;
But mark, they differ’a in the sound—
The man did cast his blame on n s ;
The womandidherruinsee.
105
Digitized by L . o o Q l e
That from the forpent did appear;
And so it hung till I came here >
To bear the blame then cast by man.
I and the woman then were one,
That hung together in the weight;
And here’s the mystery, for ’tis great:
And though His great I’ll make it plain,
And prove it to the sons of men*
I and the woman must appear
My Mother’s innocence to clear, <
That of the woman I did come
To bring Salvation unto man;
Which at that time they’d not receive,
And so the world we both did leave.
Yet in one weight we still appear—
My Mother’s spirit must be here,
To take revenge on every foe.
That pierc’d her heart and soul all through ;
Because the sword went through her soul—
Awake* vain men, J tell you all,
My Mother’s spirit now is here ;
And both together do appear,
I tell you, perfect like the first;
And op you shall my fury burst.
If now you draw your swords again, *
To pierce her soul—’tis all in vain;
fo r I shall now turn back the dart.
And plunge the sword in every hearty
That as her foe doth now appear;
For all my Gospel now I’ll clear.
Mothers and Sisters I did call
Appear, vain men, and answer all,
How I my Bible can fulfil*
I said, all those that did my will
Should in that manner be to ms ;
And in the end you all shall see,
That all the righteous blood shall come
To be avenged back on.man.
Then sure my Mother must appear;
(The mysteries deep to man I’ll clear,)
That is, in Spirit here below;
Or how could I avenge the blow
On men and devils, that betray’d,
To bring it on the Serpent’s head, r
To free all those that with her join ?
But all her foes that now combine,
I say, against her every hand,
Her injuries I’ll return on man.
10G
Digitized by Google
So you may call her what you will—
A Bride,or Mother ; but stand still:
I said, n Bridegroom I'd appear,
When I bring in my every heir 5
And by her name you all shall see
That Mary doth with her agree,
To cast all on the Serpent's head;
And like Joanna is her plead.
And ifyou will not cast it there,
Then of her blood let all take care;
For I'll avenge her every foe.
New look to Calvary, you may know
What fetal sword went through her soul,
To see her Sow to die for all
I know her grief was more than mine j
And HI avenge the every crime,
That caus'd my Mother's heart to bleed ;
So now take care how jou proceed.
Bat now 1 ask how 't could be done*
Had not my Spirit to her come,
To have the Woman to appear.
That in my Mother's room is here }
And if her offers you refuse,
I say more fetal than the Jews,
You'll find the every weight to turn/
Till ruin is on every man.—
And now 1 bid thee write thy dream,
And let the learned see it plain,
How every weight must now come round,
And every spirit now is found.
As when I hung upon the tree.
My Mother's heart then bled for me ;
And here's Joanna in her room,
That early came to see my tomb,
To know if I was risen there;
And now Joanna doth appear,
I tell you plain, to warn you all.
That now's your time to stand or fell.
For I'll avenge my Mother's griefj—
And there, 1 tell ytiu, came foe thief;
After foe angel aid appear,
Satan came next and found foe spear,
I say, to pierce her very soul;
And now's the time I’ll turn on all;
The every weight shall so come round.
Without my wS&could I be found,
107
Digitized by Google
I say to come and die below ?
But in thy heart, thou answer’st no:
But sure ’twas not my Mother’s will
That I the fatal spear should feel;
Then now I will avenge the deed 5
Tis for the Woman all rau^t bleed,
Whose hands and hearts do not appear
To cast all on the Serpent there,
As she already hath begun ;
For back the sword again must turn,
I tell you all, the other way:
Just like thy dream they all will see
That every weight will so come round ;
And now the dream let it be found.’9
108
March 7th, 1803.—I dreamed that I was in a
large room, and there was an organ-loft in it, with
polished stone and marble under it. The loft was
supported by two pillars; near to each pillar there
hung a large round stone, like a grinding-stone,
with two irons through each of them, which came
through the gallery and the stones, and were
fastened at the bottom. I thought I sat near it,
with a large company ; and both weights hung
steady for some tim e; at last on a sudden, to my
great astonishment, both weights began to run
round with amazing swiftness; and I began to
fear they would break the irons, and that the
weight would fall upon us. They that were with
me did not appear so much alarmed; but I arose,
and went to the window; where I saw a boat
hung up, andifastened to the window; and there
was a river, like a canal, under the window. I
asked why the boat was hung up ? They answered,.
because the bottom was out. And then I awoke,
T h e a n s w e r o f t h e S p i r i t .
“ Now I answer. As the weight turned round,
so shall every thing now turn round, as I told
thee; and as the boat was hung up, which had no
Digitized by Google
bottom to abidfc in the water, so will the end be
to every one that has no bottom to swim in the
stream of living water; which is near to all your
windows. For in a day ye little think of, and in
an hour unawares, all will turn round, like thy
dream. So now let all men watch, and be ready.
And it is happy for those who have signed their
names for Christ’s kingdom to come, and Satan’s
to be destroyed, and are sealed before they die;
for their labour of love shall not be forgotten by
M E.”
109
The following dream was given to Joanna on
the 5th of March, 1803. I dreamed that a clergy­
man took me by the right hand, and said he
would cut it off close to the wrist. I answered,
will you, sir? Then I shall die. He said, no,
you shall not die; for I will heal ic again. I
' thought I answered, warmly, no, you shall not;
for I will bleed to death, if you cut it off.
The Answer of the S p i r i t to the above Dreamt
4
9Now, as he said he’d cut it off;
But let him understand,
If this was done, the blood must run,
Till I destroy’d your land.
For I would never heal the wound:
My vengeance should be laid,
I say, on all—thejust I’d call
Out of your very land;
And then your judgments fast should fall.
Till England could not.stand.
But like the Jews, they’ll hear the news.
And all be forc’d to fly:
Jerusalem’s ruin all will see—
The time is drawing nigh.
I’ll heal no more, if toes appear.
With violence stop thy hand;
Digitized by Google
It is my blood, for man 'twas shed,
Still runs throughout your land.
What I do mean I’ll tell thee plain;
I did die once for all,
To bring your guilt on Satan’s head,
That he like m b may fall.
And if this hand they do cut of£
Your ruin must abound,
And bleed to death, as thou didst say9
I’d never heal the wound,
Nor stop the blood, as thou then saidst—
Thy words were spoke by me.
And there’s no man should heal thy hand
But ruin all should see;
Because thy hand, let all command—
The woman pluckt the fruit;
And ’tis by her you all must stand,
To strike the fatal Root.
Or else you’ll see your destiny,
Your sorrows will abound,
If the same hand does not condemn,
To chain the rebel down.
That drew her in by arts to sin ;
’Tis her demand must come,
As man did cast her blame on me,
And so they slew her Son.
Then she must say the other way,
Let justice now appear;
1 cast the blame on him at first;
Let him his trial bear.
So here’« the hand for me must stand ;
And if you cut it off,
I soon to death should bleed your land,
And so bring down my wrath.
I’ll die no more, I tell you here—
I died upon the tree;
But had the vengeance in my heart
To bring the guilt on he.
The serpent there he did appear;
The woman must it claim ;
And if that hapd you do cut offi
1 say, ye sons of men
Must bleed to death, the scripture saitb.
The day of vengeance’s near.
So now let men behold the hand,
And tell which they will clear.
One of the two you all must do ;
For if the woman’s cast.
Digitized by C a O C K ^ l c
in
Youcrucifyyour Lor d anew.
And prove my sentence just;
Because that I, who dwell on high,
Did give her to your hand;
Andif the fault in her doth lie,
Then I must guilty stand.
To give her there I did appear,
And now her hand you see,
It isher maker for to clear,
And find no fault in me ; •
But all her blame from Satan came.
And here she strikes the root;
Andif this band you do condemn,
Thenlet mankind be mute,
If I shouldcome and all condemn,
And cut you all away—
And bring a race that's nought but men,
See where your bliss doth lie.
Bo now weigh deep the words I speak;
For all shall find I'm here;
And *ds my word that's on record.
The woman's gutk must clear
The sonsof men, when she demands
To cast your guilt on hell.
Mo other way, to man I say.
The serpent e’er can fall;
As I for man the victim came,
And so for man I died;
For he did cast the blame on m i,
And sothe cause was tried.
Butnow I'm come the second time.
My Spirit doth appear;
And let the woman’s cause be tried,
And Satan's trial come.
And by her hand she doth demand
That justice claims his blood ;
And ’tis by it you all must stand,
Or perish in the flood.
I'll heal no more, if you appear
To cut this hand away;
Foras these writings do appear.
You up and down must lie.®
About the end of 180S, a young lady, about
twelve years old, dreamed that she was at a rela­
tion’s house, and saw a fine bed of strawberries,
*lawns tad written Iron the eppoittc ends of her hook*«Rd finished fees*
hit tactic the middle.
Digitized by Google
112
which, while she looked at them, were turned into
cherries. She very much desired au explanation
from Joanna Southcott; and on the 7th of March,
1803, the following communication was given to
Joanna:
* T H E A N SW E R OF T H E S PIR IT .
“ Strawberries area fi ’
cherries, which are above the earth, so will the
joys of my kingdom rise above the earth to hea­
venly joys, which no man ever yet tasted. They
will rise, like the fruit. The earth’s fruit is earthly,
and dies away; but the trees are above the eartn:
the one is subject to be devoured by earthly ver­
min ; but that on the trees, none but birds can
take or taste'—and ye are .commanded to mount
up with the wings of an "eagle, and build your
nest op high, to taste the joys which are above the
earth. For, as the fruit was raised high, so will I
raise all your joys high above the earth; which no
worm or vermin, that creep on this mouldering
dust, can taste or devour: wings of faith must
carry you above the earth, to taste them.
For as the fruit was raised high,
And on the trees the fruit did lie;
So you must rise from things below,
With wings of faith you all must go
To taste the joys that now are come.
I’ll change the fruit, as she did dream,
To raise the fruit above the trees;
And men may judge itafc’they please,
As none but birds can e’er come there:
It is by wings that birds appear,
And ’tis by wings ye then must fly
To taste the joys that now are nigh.
For if I keep them on the ground,
I know the worms will them confound.
That grovel on the dust below.
But here’s a mystery none do know.
Why it was rais’d above the earth,
And came to cherries, as she saith:
cherries upon trees.
Digitized by Google
Bactuie that cherries have a stone—
A shadow deep to men unknown•
For the white stone most now appear,
' And all will find a sweetness there.
Now if that men coold this discern,
They'd know no earthly worm could harm
All those who change their Faith, to bo
Just like the Fruit upon the Tree:
- Because ’tis rais'd above theearth—
The fruit was chang'd just like your faith.
That I shall raise you from the dust,
. If in k b now you put your trust;
Where earthly worms cannot destroy:
Too all shall find HI raise your joy,
To the Naw N ame, and the W hite Stone,
The Stem of Jkssb shall be known,
My every promise to fulfil;
And men may judge this as they will,
And to the vision now 1
*11come."—
113
A vision seen by Joseph Prescott, March 4,1803.
—An Angel appeared, in size like a grown person,
inaloose blue robe, with a star on his head, like a
cap, with a square box under his arm, about a foot
each way, apparently of gold. He opened the* box,
inwhich was a crown; to look at it all together,
it looked like one star of diamonds. Four large
arches came from the ball in the centre, at the
top. Between each of the four arches there was a
small crown like the large one. Underneath the.
ball was another small crown, hanging to the ball
At the top of the ball was another crown. The
angel said, the* four arches signified the four quar­
ters of the world; and the crowns between the
four arches, crowns of wisdom, that the people of
the world are to be crowned with; and the crown
under the bail, the crown of Light, that was to
be in the hearts of the people. The Ball was the
World. The crown at the top, the Crown of
(Hoiy and Happiness, given them at their going
out of the world. The reason the box first ap-
M
Digitized by Google
peared shut was, because it was not yet ***. And
if any one, that was a believer in God, desired a
picture, it should appear again ; but not without.
The reason the angd appeared in blue Was, be­
cause he came with t r u t h . At first there was no
light in the box, but what came from the crown.
After, an eye of superior brightness appeared over
the crown, and rendered the whole luminous.
A young lady, who is a believer in these things,
and that they come from God, desired a picture. <
When the crowns were again seen, and drawn by
Joseph, the same evening; and the next day the
angel appeared, and was drawn by him in a se­
parate picture. Both pictures are very beautiful,
and are copied by the youth from pictures set be­
fore him in vision.
This boy has had these kinds of visions ever
since he was eight years old, in the year 1793.
He is now eighteen; but not bigger than a boy
of twelve. He was taken, by a gentleman, out o f
a workhouse, on Sunday, the 27th of Februaiy,
1803, and on the Wednesday following, March the
2d, 1803, he had the vision of the Angsl o f
J u d g m e n t , dressed in a robe of light, ornamented
with diamonds and stars. He had m his right
hand the Trumpet,of Judgment, holding it toward
his mouth, as if preparing to sound, b u t d i d m o t
t h e n s o u n d i t : but uttered these words, “ W oe
to the Earth, and the W orld; fo r /, the Lord, am
with thee, and the Deoil i» in the midst of th ee”
This youth is veiy happy in his present situation,
as he has now free liberty given him to execute
tliese heavenly visions.
114
Joanna Southcott saw the pictures on the sixth
of March, 1803, and on the seventh the following
communication was given to her, concerning the
S p v e n C b o w n s , from the Spirit. ■ .
Digitized by Google
“ And to the vision now I'll come.
In Heaven it was all 9een by John:
I told thee allmust come below,
Therefore this Visum Fdid show'
Unto the youth, at the some time
That I was telling thee my mind. *
I said, on earth mast all take place—
Awake, yedark benighted race,
And all together now compare;
You must confess my Spirit's here*;
And I the child did visit then,
To fchew these visions unto men;
Which at that time seem'd of no use;
But now I bid them all produce
The visions unto diem were given—
I tell you all, they came from Heaven.
For I these visions all did show:
I told thee all must come below;
And as the Shepherds9 did appear.
That pray’d to quench the Spirit there,
Which tbey then said was not of G od ;
But still, theysaid, they fear’d the L o r d ;
And so my word, they said, should stand ;
And now their answers I demand,
How bothf together did appear ?
I said, all visions must come here,
Thou know's! I told thee, down M ow y
In Tucker’s letter 1 said so;
And unto Hill} I did command
That he the visions then should send:
And yet to all it did appear
As Fruit on Barth-*-the worms were there,
That did destroy their every fruit;
But now, I tell them to stand mute:
For on the Tree I've rais’d it high,
Out of their power all do lie,
For to destroy this fruit again—
The feather’a fowls must k explain:
For they alone the fruit can taste;
And mark the tree, how all is plac’d,
9Someyears ago some ministers visited Joseph, and agreed that bis visions
cane from an evil Spirit, and prayed that he might be delivered from it.
t The Youth’s visitation and Joanna’s were nearly at the same time.
| By order from the Loud, the boy took a Book of Visions to the Rev.
HowlandHill, who afterwards mentioned it from his palpk, as coming from
tom Roman Catholic.
115
H 2
Digitized by Google-
I say, out of the reach of man,
To answer now thy written hand v
Because my eye is every where,
As to the youth it did appear;
And let them see the single eye.
And so your ways I do espy.
And as the Jewbls did appear,
Just so in Heaven they making are;
And as the Seven C rowns were seen,
Just so the Crowns Til make for man;
Because the Sexxnth Day draws near,
That man the Seven Crowns must wear.
The Crown of d o ry m place?first;
For so the end for man must burst
The Second Crown, that must appear,
Is Man’s Redemption I shall clear ;
For now the Third is hastening on,
For to establish David’s Throne;
Who as a shepherd did appear,
And to a throne was raised there;
As he from Saul receiv’d the crown,
A Son of Jesse he was fouhd,
When Samuel warn’d him to appears—
The mystery now of Saul I’ll clear,
Whom I anointed,to be king.
And then the kingdom rent from him,
As he had disobeyed my word—
A type of Satan, and the Lord.
When Satan’s kingdom is destroy’d,
Then I’m the King by man enjoy’d,
But as a David did appear,
An Absalom was surely there,
Who thought his father to unthrone,
And gain the kingdom for his own;
So I have many sons below.
Like Absalom t you’ll find it so,
That will not wish for me to reign ;
But they, like Absalom, shall be slain*
And these are types go deep for man,
That first and last alike will come;
And with your Bible/ all compare;
For then your Crowns you’ll all see clear.
When I establish D avid’s.T hrone,
The Absaloras will all he known
To fly and perish, just like he,
Whose hair was hung upon the tree:
Because the Tree, you know was bad—
The branch whereon yon evil had.
116
Digitized by Google
Unto that evil men wilt fly;
Their Father's reign they will deny;
And so they'll perish on that tree,
Who now deny the reign of me*
So let the Absaloms all take Care;
Because his fate they all shall share:
For I have diew’d you David’s Crown,
And all shall know ’tis coming down;
And every branch that is in me,
a like the vision, all shall see,
they shall all share in the Cfown,
As every jewel there is found:
And fast you’ll find I’ll make them ujf;
For hke the vision ail shall drop,
To bring the Fourth Crown now to man.
That he the earth may all command.
When I as David do appear,
Then man with mb must triumph here—
That’s over Death and over HeD ;
And every furious beast compel
For to be subject to his will:
I'll shake the Earth—the beast HI fill
With everv fear, as well as m an;
And all I’Uconquer to your hand—
And the proud waves snail then comply;
No more their storms shall swell so nigh,
That man can’t conquer: oft they’re lost;
For now the raging seas may boost;
But then, I say, they’ll boast no more.
Because that man I'Mcrown him there,
That he the mastery shall gain,
As on the seas I safely cam e:
And fell as safe’t shall be fer man,
When I the Fourth Crown do send.
They’ll triumph over Death and Hell,
And furious beasts, and seas that swell:
And now, I say, the furious winds
Do conquer men, they oft do find,
Your stately buildings' to throw down ;
But when I bring you the Fifth Crown,
Then in subjection they must come ;
No more you’ll hear the ragingstorm,
That from the angry wind doth rise;
But Peace and Safety round you lie:
Because I’ll crown your every bliss—
And the Sixth Crown shall finish lias;
Because I said, that all was good?
And now 111 come and crown my word.
117
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
. And so your Helpmate doth appear '
For to faltt the Seven here—
That is, 1 say, the Seventh Crown;
The thousand years of rest are found,
That I at first-pronounc’d should be:
I’ll rest from labour—so shall he
Rest from all sorrow, and from sin,
Rest from the pains that Nature brings,
Rest from temptation—he’ll find none;
But every heart wilt then become,
I say, like thine, for to hate sin:
They’ll see the victories 1 have won ; N
.And with mb reign one thousandyears,
To make your children love and fear .
And tell them all what I have done,
To free them all from hell and sin;
For that will be theSeventh Crown;
And so my J ewels will be found
To shine as sparkling diamonds bright,
And I with men shall then delight;
And men shall then delight with me,
And dwell in heavenly harmony. a v
For as in Love a few do meet,
That do believe this calling great,
So all the earth will meet the same,
And praise their Mak.Bit’s glorious name.
And as these visions do come down,
.* So will departed friends be found.
To visit all their friends below—
From types and shadows all do go :
For as these boys9 do things behold,
And faith destroys their fear,
Or else their senses I’ve confin’d,
To bring all visions near ;
Sp when l come to make an end,
^ Both Churches to unite,
Just so you’ll see departed friends,
In dazzling robes of white:
They’ll come below, you all wilt know.
And with them you’ll converse;
From world to world the dead will go,
When none can them molest.
But now be clear, some legions there
Are hovering in the air:
Wiihout my angels guard them there,
They cannot come to you.
* There are two boys in London, and one in America, that havceitraor
dijury spiritual gifts} but all in a different manner.
118
Digitized by Google
nsf
But nark the Crown, how this was found,
And bring it to Ihy view :
See it again—I’ll tell thee plain
' How every branch doth go
And how 'twill be, the end they’ll see,
Like Peter’s vision come,
That from the heavens was shewn to him*
Ye simple sons of men,
If this was done when first I came
My followers for to see,
You must expect more wondrous sights,
When I come down to ye,
To dwell with men, in Spir it come—
Visions must first appear;
You all do know, I told you so,
And Joel’s words are here.
But now I’ll come unto the Psalm;
It was of David sung—
**The Lord descended from above;
“ The shadow there is found:
" On Cherubim and Seraphim
u Full royally he rode ;
“ And on the wings of mightjr winds
“ Came flying all abroad
And oh the wings of mighty winds^
Or mighty love, I came,
To shew the vision unto him.
That all may know my Name.
The Vision plain is given to man.
Or else, you’ll say, a child,
*' That all may know, the truth is so—
That Boy can no one foil,
No more than thee.-^let mortals see
What simple hands appear;
Then you must know ’t came all from mp,
For there’s no man can dear
The mystery, when all you weigh,
And all together bring;
The Furnace I did show thee there.
Where Satan must fall in :
And there I came to shew the crown
I have for man in store.
Now if vourjudgment clear is fourn^ .
I need to say no more.
Mark how all came, ye sons of men, *
And will you say by chance ?
Then I with you will this contend.
And your own words advance.
..Digitized bfGoogle
ISO
If chance came first, the fur
And chance made him beli
The master there by chance i
Chance Satan may deceive
When chance again to haste
To see my eye fix’d there
And bring my starry crown I
My Jewel? all prepare,
To them up, for men
By chance I shall redeem
The foil of man—my chance
And these foil in the streai
That judge no God in what i
Then they must mock my
Which I have said is every i
! ask, where chance can 1
If up to heaven you take yo
’Tis there you’ll find Msclotj
If down to hell’s infernal dei
You’ll find that there my ven|
And there the shadow I shev
Design’d for hell, and so ’t s
And there my Glory 1 did s!
That what I said, I’d surely
For so my Glory shall appea
With wings of Love I’ll visi
And bring to man my starry
And all my Jewels seal them
For on that house I fix’d my
I know my Jewels, where tl
And the same chance that br
1 tell them, in the end will 1
As all these visions did appe
I skew’d thee firstthe famac
Then 1 will come to chain h
And so the visions both wen
A communication taken ftoi
'writings of February 5th, 17 9 f
complaining of the harshness ol
ment with respect to himself.
“ Now stop thy hand and re
Till 1 fully answer here:
Just like Job’s friends, so are
And the mystery 1 will cli
Digitized by Google
for my word is gone with fury—
Ail men’s folly I do see:
Call together all my Jury,
Ask them how they can agree
For to prove thou’rt led by Satan,
When the truth doth so appear.
If they will prevent the famine.
Let them own the truth is here*
Here the words I will explain;
For here thy pen goes deep:
As glorious as the sun doth shine
The woman I will keep;
Fbr a good work on mk she wrought.
The woman to redeem:
And indignation in mankind
In most men now is seen.
But from that chapter let them see,
I war by roan betray’d :
No woman to the company,
When hands on,m s were laid.
My head before she did anoint.
Against the fatal hour;
And now to her my mind I’ve told;
But man shall feel my power.
I ask .them why they trouble thee,
Their indignation raise,
And say to waste thy writings were ?
O let mankind be wise!
They say that thou dost waste 4hy time,
Things of no use to shew; .
But now, I say. I’ll not resign,
’Till men the use shall know.
For when I from the grave did come,
The woman saw me first;
And now my Spirit is made known.
The Seals must surely burst;
And by the woman’t must be prov’d
That 1 am come again.
Before my funeral, in my love,
Thou fuM>w’st they •gng an hymn;
Then now in hymns, or verse, is wrote
What is my just decree;
Fbr spiritual songs 1 always taught*
And now ’tis come to thee.”
121
The following is copied from Joann:
writings of August 24, 179 6 .
t
’s sealed
Digitized by Google
I was at work at Mr. Swales’s,' making a hair
mattress, picking the hairs. A little child, three
years old, came up,' and went in among the hair,
without shoes, on his feet. I tokl Jura he would
prick his feet. The child asked me if it pricked
my hands. I answered, no. He said, then how
can it prick my feet ? Simple as the words of the
child might appear, I was ordered to pen them.
“ Now I’ll explain this simple thing,
Which from an infent’s tongue did spring—
To prick the feet, and not the hand.
The child dad wisety understand
That was not easy to be done.
But tp the purpose I shall come;
And let the men like children see,
Then prudent men they soon will be ;
For wnat is written by thy hand
Hath oftbeen, given unto man ;
And yet thou ne’er received’*! harm,
When in my Name thou’st often warn’d.
Then they may stand on it secure,
Unhurt h ie thee—I’ll tell thee more; -
And every mystery PU explain,
And from a babe reprove mankind.
They see that thou dost still go on;
Thy wordi fulfill'd—no harm doth come
To thee, nor none that thee obey ;
Then they may stand as well as thee,
And no more hurt shah they receive;
Wise as the child let man believe ;
And then as babes rttm ake them men.
Now from the child I shall condemn:
No more the child coukl’st thou reprove—
Admir’d his wisdom; and didst love
To hear a child so wisely sp eak s
Reprove thee twice;—are men so deep,
To shew their wisdom } Deep’s the thing.
My Spirit in the woman’s form
Doth all thy letters now indite,
And men, #he thee, know not by sight;
And from a Child, I'll all reprove;
The sight deceives—the truth disclose.
But to thy words—I am the Man
T hat hath deceived them by thy form;
They know no tnore from whence incomes *
Than thou to call the child a m an;
128
Digitized by Google
But as die child'teproyed thee.
Like him believe, and all will see
What thou hast written will be true;
I will bring the mysteries to thy view /1
183
As I am now drawing towards the end of this
book, wherein my readers may be disappointed to
see it is not all filled from my sealed writings ; 1
have this to inform the public, that the prophe*
cies of this book shew the destruction of Satan, and
the coming of C h r is t 's Kingdom; that ye may be
looking for, and hastening to, the coming of tjie
L ord J esus C h r is t . In this book I shall inform my
readers how the dates of my sealed prophecies were
then spoken in verse, and shewed me in dreams and
visions; but in the years 1802 and 1803, which were
neversealed, I am to inform you the time is at hand
that these wondrous changes will take place. Here
my readers may ask me, what ground 1 have to af­
firm this belief. I answer: from the truth that is
past, 1 have grounds to believe the other truths
will follow. From the former, I judge the latter.
The war that I foretold in 17112, we should be en­
gaged in, followed in 17113. The dearth which
came upon the land in 1794 and 1795, I foretold
in 1799; and if unbelief did abound, that a much
g
reater scarcity would take place, and which too
tally followed. T foretold the bad harvest in
1797. I foretold in letters sent to two ministers
of Exeter, ,what would be the harvests of 1799,
and 1800'; that the former would be hurt by raiu,
and tlie latter by sun—these followed as predicted,
The rebellion which took place iiylreland in 1798,
I foretold in 179 5, when the Iri# .soldiers rebelled
in Exeter against the English oilicers. It was
then told me, as the shadow was begun betweeu
the Irish soldiers and the English, officers in Eng­
land ; so the substance would drop in Ireland: tor
Digitized by L . o o Q L e
124
a rebellion would be there. In 1791, when some
families went to America from Exeter, to shun the
dangers of the war in England, and the dearth that,
was begun in the land; I was then told by the
Spirit, “ that their running from dangers was like a
man, that did flee from a lion and a bear met him:
or went into the house, and leaned his hand on the
wall, and a serpent bit him for though the sword
was not there, some fatal disease would be in that
place, and would carry them off like the sword of
war; and which soon after followed, and many
thousands died of the epidemic fever there: and I
was told the same fever would visit them again;
which is well known to have happened a few years
after. I foretold the secret thoughts and conver-
satfon of people in Exeter, which took place in 1792.
This was acknowledged to be true by Mr. Eastlake,
of Exeter, before the Rev. Stanhope Bruce, the Rev.
ThomasWebster, the Rev. Thomas P. Foley, Messrs.
Sharp, Turner, Wilson, and Morison, January 2d,
1802, whilst they were at Exeter examining into
t tlie truth of nry character, and my writings.—See
page 8, of my first book. I foretold, that if mi*
nisters began to search out the trut’ "
three harvests were promised to be plentiful. The
ministers did begin to search into these things, and
the two last harvests have been plentiful.—See
page 18, of my first book, I foretold, in 1794,
that when England joined the Turks, their arms
would be successful. Fulfilled;—witness our vic­
tories in Egypt—see page 39 of my first book. I
foretold, in 179 4 , that the Lord would defend this
nation from the foreign enemy, and that all their
schemes of invasion would prove abortive. See
page 52 in my second book. I foretold the French
would gain tneir point; for in the last century we
acknowledged the Americans td be a free nation';
books, being published in 1801,
Digitized by Google
aid that in this century we should acknowledge
the French to be a free nation. See page 141 in
rmy third book. I foretold how the war would
end, and the year when peace would take place.
See page 143 of my third book. In January, 1797,
I put a letter into the hands of a minister, fore­
telling the French would conquer Italy that year;
that the people of that country would be forced to
submit—that we should seek for peace that year,
but in vain—and large sums of money would be
demanded at the end of the year, which happened
by the treble taxes being then put on. To another
minister, I wrote what would be the harvest that
year, and the truth followed, as foretold. It is
fruitless to enter into the detail of all the truths of
my prophecies which have followed. But few be­
lieved that any of these tilings would come to pass,
tHl they were accomplished. There is nothing of
consequence which has happened to this nation, or
to any other of the surrounding nations, but was
foretold by me, and which I can prove by un­
questionable witnesses, as well as by my writings:
and now I see them as clear as the noon-day’s sun
before me. I foretold what the hearts of the
people would be towards m e: that warm would be
the love in the hearts of believers; and warm
would be the malice in the hearts of opposers.
This truth, which has followed, when I read it
to my friends years ago, before it was fulfilled,
they could scarce believe; as they said my pro­
phecies. tended to the perfect happiness of man­
kind, the glorious establishment of Christ’s peace­
able Kingdom, and the destruction of Satan’s;
which every one must wish for: none could be so
hardened as to wish Satan’s power to continue any
longer, seeing how miserable be makes mankind
But unlikely as these things then appeared to my
friends, I now find them true: and if any say these
truths came by chance, then by chance all the
115. ►
Digitized by Google
other predictions may come the same; for time and
chance happen to all m en: and time and chance
may fulfil the whole; for there is no chance
that is not under tlie direction of the Lord. But
as some will say, they do not wish for Satan to
reign any longer; j et, they say my dispute with
tlie Powers of Darkness is blasphemy; as they do
not believe it. came from the devil; it being too
bad for him to speak, though not for me to write.
•They may judge as they please: I only ask my
enemies, as King Ahasuerus asked Hunan, what
ought to be done to the author of the blasphemy
in that book ? They must pass their judgment;
and the Lord is the Judge from whence it came.
The language of my heart is—the author of it
ought to be. hanged as high as Hainan; and all mgr
friends join with me in heart and mind the same:
as. he hath blasphemed God, the King of Kings,
ami L o rd of Lords. Therefore such blasphemer
ought to lie taken from the face of the earth; and
he that refuseth this sentence cannot be faithful to
his G o d , to his King, and to his Country.—
So by that book I now submit to stand;
Because my Judge has given this command,
That man mustjudge it from the blasphemy.
And 'tis the author now condemn'd roust be,
And \vhen men's judgment it doth all appear,
They'll find the righteous Judge stands at the door,
To hear the judgment A
hat is pass'd by man ;
And then, like Jehu, after he will come.
So now, I say, I'll stand the fiery task,
• And now invite my enemies to burst,
To pass their sentence on,the blasphemy;
4You all do know some Author there must be,
To speak the words which do in print appear;
Bring forth your judgment—and I'll answer here.
Now I have shewn my readers how Satan and.
myself are to stand the trial from my Disputes;
and 1 call my enemies to be the judges, and to
pass their sentence upon the author o f the bias-
• 126
Digitizedtby Google
pbemy. Now J sbajlcome to die s e a l e d pebble.'!
It is fruitless to sign their names, unless they npsh'
to be free from sin, and the power thereof to be-
destroyed; tliat they may live m Christ, tor him to.
beall.in all. I shall also inform my. readers that I
shall remain at the High House, in Paddington,
until the latter end of May; 4 nd if any learned!'
divine* .or gentleman, or any serious pcrspn, wish,
to know what-foundation L have fo affirm -my
Calling to be of God; i am ready to answerfoT,
myself. But as I am well informed that some
gentlemen and Indies have so tor let themselves.
<lown, and have forfeited the Christian character,
by saying, they would give ifre money, if I would
tell their fortunes; to such I answer—
-They and
their money tnay perish together—my soul shall
never come into their secrets. Their gold and
principles I abhor and despiseand 1 further in­
form such, that when I had an elegant suit of
clothes sent me, from one who professed it was.
done in love to the L o r d , to strengthen my hand
to cany on his work, but when that faith fell from
the giver, I was ordered, by the Spirit, to return
her the present back again, and not to receive one
pennyworth from her; as the Lo k d would not
suffer me to accept any present that was not given
through strong faith in his Name, to carry on his
Work; which was sown.in weakness, but now the
Lord is raising it in power—for when the L o rd
works none can let. And now I conclude with
telling my readers it is butstlie. shadow of my pro­
phecies which is past; for the substance of all
is hastening on. Little do you know what'is be­
fore you; nor how near die Judge stands aft the
door. I must also inform the public, that I see no
oneon the sabbath-day but my intimate friends;
but on .the week-days, if any. serious inquirer, or
warm opposer, that will bring forth arguments,
1®7,
Digitized by Google
founded on the 8criptures, to shew their reasons
why they judge my prbphecies from the D evil;
they are at liberty to come, and bring forth their
arguments, and I will bring forth mine. But there
are some that I know, who are accustomed to tell
lies, whom I have forbid already, and I now for-
bid them again; for a liar shall not tarry in my
sight it I know it. Now I have shewn my up­
right dealings with men, I hope to find upright
dealings from them— to judge as they wish to be
judged—
with justice, equity, and truth. 1 am
ready to stand a just trial, that 1 have not written
any cunningly-devised fable, but have made known
the c o m in g o p t h e L o r d J e su s C h r is t . Happy
will it be for all men who have their lamps burn­
ing, to meet the B r id e g r o o m at his coming.
JOANNA SOUTHCOTT.
128
High-House, Paddington,
March 21, 1803.
LONDON:
Printed by Marchaift and Galabin, Ingram-Court; and told b j W. T o tsa ^
Chapel Place* Duke-Street* Westminster-Road, Southwark; alto by Yf.
Symohds*Gandy-Lane; and the Miss F.vcleigiis*St. SidwelTs* Exeter ;
S. Hia«T, Leeds; W. Wadman, York j J ames Light*Coventry-Street,
Stourbridge; E dmund B aker* 11minster; C. B r a d l e y , Digbeth, Bir­
mingham; R. Goldsmith* Gravesend; andT. Turpin, Greenwich.
( Price Two Shillings and Sixpence)
Digitized by Google
