{"name":"History Of Free Masonry","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1804__brewster___history_of_free_masonry.pdf","mytitle":"History Of Free Masonry","mylang":"de"}
0
THE
HISTORY
OF
FREE MASONRY,
DRAWN FROM
AUTHENTIC SOURCES OF INFORMATION;
WITH
AN ACCOUNT
OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF SCOTLAND,
tRG:\t ITS INSTITUTION IN I 736, TO THE PRESENT TIME,
COMPILED FROM THE RECORDSJ
AND
AN APPENDIX
OF ORIGINAL PAPERS.
EDINBURGH :
l'lllNTED BT ALEX, LAWRIE AND CO.
FOR -\U.X. LAWRIE, BOOl,SELLEll AND STATIONitR
TO THE GRAND LODGE OF SCOTLAND,
NO. 24. PARLIAMENT SQ...UARE;
AND
LON'G:\1.\N AND REF..S, LONDO'X.
l R04.
Digitized by Google
...-.,
I
Dig1tized by Google
TO THE RIGIIT IIONOUR,\BLE
GEORGE EARL OF DALHOUSIE,
GRANp-M.:\.STER ELECT;
A~D
THE OFFICE BEARERS AND l'tfEJliiBERS
OF THE
GRANP LODGE
OF
SCOTLAND,
This Work is Inscribed
By their Obedient
And
Obliged Servant,
ALEX. LAWRIE.
---- ~-
Digitized?~. gl~.
Digitized b
yGoogle
PREFACE.
FROM the events which have lately taken
place in Europe, the History of Free
Masonry ·has a claim upon the public
attention, to which, at another period,
perhaps, it might not have been entided.
The history of a peaceful institution,
whose proceedings afe concealed fro~
the public eye, can be interesting only to
its own members,who are solicitous about
. ..
the honour and advancement of their
order. But, whenever it influences the
opinions and practices of men; when-
ever·itcontributes to the disturbance or
degradation ofkingdoms ; and whenever
it is deemed an instrument in the pro·
motion of those ~eat revolutions, which
involve, in their consequences, the happi-
ness of individuals, and the stability of
nations, it may then arrogate some title
to public attention. That such allega-
a tions
4..
~ ·- .
..........
--- ~- - --
Digitized by -ogle
Vl PREFACE.
tions- ha'V'e been made against the frater-
nity of Freo Masons, is a circumstance
which is known to all. A few weak-
minded alarmists have represented the
lodges of the order.as caverns-~f dark-
ne$s,in "YVhich the most detestable schemes
have been hatched, and fr9Ql which have
issued those monsters of wickedness whQ
have unsettled the tranquillity of Europe,
and subverted the principles of religion
~ ofgovern~~t! The $Cenes to which
I allude are deeply ~printed on the
minds ofaH ; an<lit must ~av~ QC~asioned
no s:mal1 degree of te~;r~r ~ the- frieads
of or~r, were they conviu.c~d that.~re
existed. in every tow:-I~, nay, in every vil-
lage of their native land, a ~nget:ous.
association of powerful men, who were
partakers in the enormities of the French
Revolution, who were instigators] of re-
bellion in their own country, and. con~
spira.toxs aga~nst the existing governments.
of Europe. We ca1.1not, indeed,.su.iti.d-
ently admire that dep~h of wisdom which
~ pretended
-; - ___·.... . .... • - - . t .
PREFAC.E~ Vll
pretended to discover such evils, nor ap-
plaud that stretch of patriotism which
warned Europe of her danger. But we
must be allowed to think, that such pre-.
tended discoveries have been productive
of the most baneful effects : They have
weakened that reliance which man natu.
rallyplacesupon man : They have broken
those ties which,bind together the mem-
bers of the same community : They have
introduced distrust, suspicion, and terror,
"into every district where Free Maso~ry
prevails, and where such reports have
been credited.
THE best way of refuting those calum..
nies which have been brought against the
fraternity-of Free Masons, is to lay before
the public a correct and rational account
of the nature, origin, and progress of the
institution; that they may be enabled to
determine,whetherornotits principlesare,
in any shape, connected with the princi-·
piesofrevolutionaryanarchy,andwhether
b 2 or
Digitized by Google
VlU PR.EFACE.
or not the conduct of its members has
ever been similar to the conduct of trai-
tors. For this purpose, as well as for the
instruction ofthose who desire to be ini..
tiated into the order, the following Trea..
tise on Free Masonry is submitted to the
consideration of the public. The works
on ~s subject, which have already been
given to the world, are of such a repul-
sive nature, as to deter the most inquisi..·
rive from their perusal. They contain
nothing more than a meagre account of
public buildings; and by referring the ori-
gin o£ the order to ·the creation of the
world, and ranking among the list of
FreeMasons,themostcelebratedmonarchs
of the east, without any authority fr~m
authentic history, their authors have dis,.
credited an institution which they meant
to have honoured. It shall be the object,
therefore, of the following work, to divest
the history of Free Masonry of that jar-
gon and mystery in which it hath hither-
to been enveloped ; and to· attempt some.,.
thin
. -~
Digitized by Google-..
--'
.
.P:R.EF ACE. IX
thing like a.classical view of this ancient
and respectable institution.
The difficulties which attend such
an_ undertaking, can be obvious to
those only, who are, ·in some measure,
acquainted with the subject. From the
very constitution of the fraternity, its
origin .must be involved in obscurity;
the IJ:).aterials for its history must be
ecantyinthe extreme; and those whichcan
be procured, cannot in themselves be of
such an interesting nature as to excite
general attention. The history of an
association, however, which has existed
from the remotest antiquity ; which has
extended to every comer of the world,
and embraced men of every rank, of eve-
ry religion, and of every form of govern-
ment, must surely be interesting to a con-
templative man, who is accustomed to
discover new features ofthe mind, in eve- .
ry human institution. . But those who
derive amusement, only from the recital
of
Digitized by G_
oogle
. .. ~~~
X PREFACE.
of bloody wars anddomestic commotions,
who are ·delighted with romantic narra-
tions, ar1d stories of imaginary,happiness
and misery, will find here no gratification
of their sanguinary and corrupted taste.
They will turn,with disappointment,frotn
the history of a peaceable association,
for~ed for the purpose of scientific im-
provement, and the exercise of mutual
benevolence ; patronising and executing
those magnificent structures, which at one
time have contributed to the utility and
ornament of nations, and at another to
the amusement and admiration of suc-
ceeding ages ;-an association sometimes
persecuted from the jealousy of power,-
jiometimes alarmed by the thre~ts of
superstition,-frequently attacked, but
never overturned.
. AFTER having investigated the origin
of Free Masonry, and exhibited the state
of the fraternity from that period to the
present day, the Second Part of the work
J.S
Dig•tized by~oog!~. _
_.
- - - - ~
'
PR.BFACE. xi
ia exclusively devoted to the history of
Scotish Masonry, from.the institution of
the Grand Lodge ofScotland, in 1736, to
the present year. This has been extract-
ed from the records of the Grand Lodge,
and contains much important informa-
tion, equally interesting to the public in
general, and to the Brethren of the order.
Two ancient charters from the Scotish
masons to·the Sinclairs of Roslin, from
Hay's Manuscript in the Advocates' Li-
brary; together with other papers which
were necessary for completing the work,
are given by way of appendix.
THE attentive reader will find, in the
First Part of this work, some interesting
facts, which have hitherto been unknown,
and many more brought to view which
have never been noticed in any former
history of Free Masonry. The history
of the Grand Lodge of Scotland, too, is
altogether new, as its records, though
frequently s.olicited, have never been
grante4
Digitized by Google
..
xu PREFACE.
granted to any who have written a his-
·tory of the order.
As no labour has been spared inthe exe-
cution of this plan, itis hopedthatthe cap-
dour ofthe public will be experienced for
· anydefects which they may discover; and
·that these may be imputed to want of
ability, rather than to want of attention.
For the sentiments which are expressed
concerning ~e nature and tendency of
Free Masonry, neither pardon nor indul.
gence are solicit~d. The object of the
fraternity is certainly innocent .and salu-
tary,though, like other institutions, it has
sometimes been perverted by the igno-
rance and depravity of its members.
THE
Digitized by ~oog!~ ....- _
CONTENTS.
Page
On the separation of Professions 1
Superiority of Architecture as a separate profession 2
Description of the Institution of Free Masonry s.
Different opinions respecting its origin 7
It probably originated in Egypt 10
Its importation into Greece under the form of the
Eleusinia and Dionysia 14
~mparison betw~en the Eleusinia and Free Masonry 16
Connection between the Eleusinian and Dionysian
mysteries 24
On the Dionysian artificers of Asia Minor 28
Comparison between the Dionysian fraternity and
Free Masonry 29
The existence of Free Masbnry at the building of
Solomon's Temple, highly probable 32
Comparison between the Essenes and Free Masons 34
On the fraternity. of the Kasideans 38
Comparison between the Pythagorean Fraternity and
that of Free Masons - 40
Connection of the Pythagoreans and Essenes with
the Kasideans, whose office it was t() repair the
temple of Jerusalem 45
Objections of Barruel against the early origin of
Free Masonry answered 48
Partial
c
Digitized by Gpogle
xiv CONTENTS.
Page
Partial extinction of Secret Associations in Europe
during the dark ages 52
Travelling Fraternity of Architects during the dark
ages
Causes of their encouragement
Free Masonry extinguished in every part of Europe
except Britain
Causes of its continuance there
On the origin of the Knights Templars who were
Free Masons
Persecuted·by the Pope and t.hc French King
Their barbarous treatment
Declaration· of Molay
The innocence of the Templars maintained against
.the arguments of Barruel
Impossibility of the public in general ever knowing
the mysteries of secret associations
Connection between chivalry and Free Masonry
Exemplified in the case of the Templars
The Knights Templars initiated into the Syrian fra-
ternities, one of which exists to this day
Progress of Free Masonry in Britain
Introduced· into Kilwinning in Scotland
Time of its introduction into England unknown
Causes of the decline of Free Masonry in Britain
History of the fraternity in the reign of Henry VII.
Account of ·a curious Manuscript
Historyof Free Masonry in Scotland under James I.
---------- in the reign of James II.
------------ in ·the reign of James VI.
54
s6
57
ibid.
87
88
89
91
92
94
96
99
100
101
Office of hereditary Grand-Master conferred upon
the Sinclain of Roslin IOJ
Re&ig-
oi9,tizect by Google
CONTENTS.
Page
Jlesignation of that office by William Sinclair, Esq.
in I736 I04
Grand Lodge of Sc~tland instituted IOS
History of Free Masonry in England during the wars
between the King and the Parliament 1o6
Fanciful opinions of Dr Robison and Pivati examin-
ed 107.
Proofs, in opposition to Dr Robison, that Free Ma-
sonry was introduced into France long before the
exile of the Stuart family I o8
Probable tirne of its introduction 109
Causes of the innovations superinduced upon Free
Masonry in France I 12
Causes of its·purity in Britain I I4
History of the Schism in the Grand Lodge of Eng-
land, by the secession of what are called the Anci-
ent Masons .,. 1 IS
Rapid progress of Free Masonry I I 8
Introduced into India, Holland, Russia, Africa,
Spain, Germany, &c. r 18
The persecutions of Free Masons in Holland in I 73S r19
Persecutions of Free Masons in France I 2 I
-----------in Germany ibid.
-----------in Holland, in 1740 I24
Origin of the Fraternity o(the Mopses - 125
Persecution of Free Masons in Switzerland 126
Cruelty of the Inquisition to individuals who were
Free Masons, at florence, St Sebastian, and Lis-
bon 128
Examples of. the active benevolence of Free Masons
Story of M. Prevorot
129
129
IJO
Story of a Dragoon at diebattle of Dettingen
lntroduction of Free Masonry into Boheri1ia
c 2
• IJ I
StoTy
Digitized by Go e
xvi CONTENTS.
Page
Story of a Scotish Gentleman who was a prisoner at
Prague ·
Free Masons persecuted in Scotland by the Asso-
Ci<\te Synod ibid.
Progress of Free Masonry on the Continent 134
Grand Lodges established at Berlin and Brunswick 136
<;:ompact between the Grand Lodges of Berlin and
·England • - ibid.
Erection of charity-schools bythe continental lodges I37
Persecution of Free Masons in Portugal 139
Progress of Free Masonry in Holland ibid.
Origin and progress of the, Illuminati I 4Q
Causes and utility of that institution .. 141
State of Free Masonry in Germany 144
Conduct of the British Government to the Fraternity
in 1799 .,.
<;onclusion
I4S
ibid.
THE HISTORY OF THE GRAND LODGE OF
SCOTLAND.
Circular letter from the Edinburgh Lodges
Deed of Resignation by W. Sinclair, Esq~
1 Grand Election, I 736 ..
Proceedings relating to the Royal Infirmary
2 Grand Electi~n, I737
Page
I46
148
ISO
tp
152
Ceremony of laying the foundation-stone of the
Eastern Wing of the Royal Infirmary
. 3 Grand Election, 1738
4 I739
5 174°
6 1741 I6I
7 Grand
. Digitized by Google
· -~. ...•
. ""!.,_ ~- ~ '!_
CONTENTS. xvii
7 Grand Election, 1742
8 1743
9 1744
JO 1745 I
II 1746
12-----
13-----
14 1749
15 1750
16 1751
17 1752
Ceremony of laying the
Royal Exchange
Speeches on this occasion
18 Grand Election, 1753
19 1754
20 1755
21 1756
22 1757
23 1758
24 1759
2.5 1760
26 1761·
27 1762
Ceremony of laying the
North Bridge
28 Grand Election, 1763
29 1764
30 1765
31 1766
32 1767
33 1768
34 1769
~s 1770
Page
161
162
163
ibid.
164
ibid.
165
166
ibid.
167
ibid.
foundation-stone of the
168
178
184
xss
186
187
188
ibid.
189
19~
191
ibid.
foundation-stone of the
.•
19l
19S
196
191
ibid.
198
ibid.
199
ibid.
Foundation-stone
Digitized by Google
Xviii CONTEN1·s.
Page.
Foundation-stone of the Episcopal Chapel, Cowgate,
laid
36 Grand Election, I77I
Ceremony of laying the foundation-stone of the New
Bridge at Ayr
Resolutions of theGrandLodge of England under the
Duke of Athol, respecting a correspondence with
200
ibid.
201
the Grand Lodge of Scotland 205
37 Grand Election I772 207
Resolutions of the Grand Lodge of Scotland, re-
specting a correspondenc.e with the Grand Lodge
of England, under the Duke of Athol 208
38 Grand Election, 1773
39 1774
40 177s
~· 1776
210
ibid.
211
ibid.
Ceremony of laying the foundation-stone of the High
School 212
Speeches on this occasion 2 I 7
42 Grand Election, I 777 2~1
Death of William Sinclair, Esq. who ~esigned the
office of Hereditary Grand-Master - - 221
'Funeral Oration on this occasion by Sir William
Forbes 112
43 Grand Election, I773
44 1779
4S 178o
46 J78I
'-
47 1782
48 I783
49 1784
Ceremony of laying the
South Bridge
-,.
.. 232
foundation-stone of the
233
ibid.
234
ibid;
2 3S
ibid.
2J6
so Grand
- Dig1tized by GQ_o_gle__.___
mnd_
;a:. .... "- ""'~fil!iOOO~ . -
CPNTENT~ ~
so Grand EJection, 1785
SI 1786
52 1787
Page.
24~
243
ibid.
~eremony of laying the foundatiop-sto~e of ~1e
Draw-Bridge at Lei~ ibid.
53' Grand Election, I788
Ceremony of laying the foul).d<\tion-stQne
New College of Edinbur&h
Speeches ort this o.cc;J.Sion
54 Grand Election t789
55 1790
s6 179I
244
of th.e
- 245
Ceremony at laying the foundation-stone of the New
Bridewell, Calton-Hill, Edinburgh 257
The Grand-Ma~ter's speech Qn this occasion 25$
57 Grand Election, I792 262
ss 1793 263
59 1794 264
~ Im ~
Address from the Grand Lodge to his Majesty, on
his escape from assassinatio_n 266
61 Grand Election, 1796 267
62 1797 268
Address from the Grand Lodge to his Majesty, on
Lord Duncan's victory ibid.
63 Grand Election, 1798 270
Clauses in the Act of Parliament for suppressing se-
ditious societies, respecting Free Masons a71
Proceedings of the Grand Lodge in consequence of
this Act 213
64 Grand Election, I799 277
Address from the Grand Lodge to his Majesty, on
his escape from assassination
's Grand Election, 18oo
Ceremony
Digitized by Google
' ..
CONTENTS.
· Page
Ceremony of laying the foundation-stone of the Wet
Docks at Leith 281
Speeches on this occasion 286
66 Grand Election, 1801 291
67 I 802 ibid.
68 180J 293
Commencement o'f an union between the Grand
Lodge of England, undet the Prince of Wales,
and the Grand Lodge of Scotland, by means of
the Earl of Moira 293
-APPEND I X-
No. I. Charter of the Scotish Masons to William
Sinclair, Efq. of Roslin 297
No. II. CHarter of the Scotish Masons to Sir Wil-
liam Sinclair, in 163o 300
No. III. Laws and Regulations of the Grand Lodge
of Scotland 305
No. IV. Lift of the Lodges holding of t.he Grand
Lodge of Scotland, classed into Districts,
with the Provincial Grand Masters 329
No. V. Lift of all the Lodges holding of the Grand
Lodge of Scotland 347
ERR .AT .A.
Page 8. line 14, For secret read .tacrtd.
- - Jl.- S· For dominion.t read dominion.
N. B. The Binder will observe, that after page 144•
- a leaf is to be taken in,marked by [2 S]
Digitized by Coogle
THE
HIS T 0 Rj Y
OF
FREE MASONRY.
WHEN men are in a state of barbarity, and
are scattered over the surface of a country in
small and independent tribes, their wants are .a,
small in magnitude, as they are few in number~
It is in the power, therefore, of everr individual,
to perfonn, for himself rum his family, every
work of labour which necessity or comfort re-
quires ; and while, at one time, he equips him-
self for the chace or the combat, at another,
he is rearing a habitation for his offspring, or
hollowing his canoe to surmO\mt the dangers of
the sea. But as soon as thefe tribes associate to-
gether, for the purposes of mutual protection
and comfort, civilization advances apace ; and,
A in
"' /
.· r-"
·----- Digl~dbyG6bgk
THE HISTORY OF
in the same proportion, the wants and desires of
the community increase. In order to gratify
these, the ingenuity of individuals is called forth;
and those, who~ from inability or indolence, can-
not satisfy their own wants, will immediately re-
sort to the superior skill of their neighbours.
Those members of the community, who can exe-
cute their work with the greatest elegance and
celerity' will be most frequently employed; and,
from this circumstance, combined with the prin-
ciple of emulation, and other causes, that distinc-
tion of professions will arise, which is found on-
ly among nations considerably advanced in civi-
lization and refinement.
ONE ofthe first objects of man, in a rude state, is
to screen himself and his family from the heat of
the tropic sun, from the inclemency of the po-
lar regions, or from the sudden changes of more
temperate climates. If he has arrived at such a
degree of improvement, as to live under the do-
minion of a superior, and under the influence
of religious belief, the palace of his King, and
the temple of his Gods, will be reared in the
most magnificent stile, which his skill can de-
vise, and his industry accomplish*, and decked
with those false ornaments, which naturally catch
the eye of unpolished men. From that princi-
ple, which impels the lower orders to imitate the
magnificence
• Robertson's America, vol. 2. page 316.
...:....- --- - __.__ _
. Digitized by Google
.. ______
____,___
FREE MASONRY· 3
magnificence and splendour of their superiors, a
foundation will be laid for improvement in the art
of building; and it is extremely probable~ from
the circumstances, which have been mentioned, as
well as from others, which the slightest reflection
will suggest, that architecture will be the first
profession, to which men will exclusively devote
their attention; and for which they will be train-
ed by an established cpurse of preparatory edu-
cation.
NoR. is it from ·this ground only, that Mason-
ry derives its superiority as a separate profession.
While many other arts administer to our luxury
and pride, and gratify only those temporary wants
and unnatural desires which refinement has ren-
dered necessary, the art of building can lay claim
to a higher object. The undertakings of the
architect, not only furnish us with elegant and
comfortable accommodation from the· inclemen-
cy of the seasont, from the rapacity of wild beasts,
and the still more dangerous rapacity of man;
they contnbute also to the ornament and glory of
nations, and it is to them that we are indebted for
those fortresses of strength, which defend us from
the inroads of surrounding enemies. . Nor can
the works of the architect be ranked among
those objects.which furnish amusement and ac-
commodation for a few years, or at most during
the short term of human life; they descend un-
impaired from generatton to generation ; they
A 2 acquire
Digitized by Google
4 THE HISTORY OF
. .
acquire additional grandeur and value from an
increcue of age; and are the only specimens of
human labour which, in some measure, survive
tlie revolutions of kingdoms, and the waste of
time. The splendid remains of Egyptian, Gre-
cian, and Roman architecture, which, in every
age, have attracted the ttttention of the learned,
and excited the astonishment of the vulgar, are
standing monuments of the ingenuity and pow-
er of man ; and, in ages yet to, come, they will
i
reflect a dignity on the art of building, to which
no other profession can ·arrogate the· slightest
'tlaim.
BoT there is still another consideration, which
entitles architecture to a decided pre-eminence
among the other arts. It is itself the parent of
many separate professions; and requires a com-
bination of talerlts, and an extent of knowledge,
for wh~ other professions have not the smalleSt
occasion. An acquaintance with the sciences of
geometry, and mechanical' philosophy, with the
arts of sculpture and design, and other abstruse
and elegant branches of knowledge, are indis-
pensible requisites in the education of an archi-
tect; and raise his art to a vast height above
those professions, which practice alone can ren-
der familiar, and which consist in the mere ex-
ertion of muscular force. It appears, then, from
these considerations, that there is some founda-
tion7 in the very nature of architecture, for those ·
extra-
Digitized by Goo,Qle
--
--- ~---~- -~ --- - -----~
FltEE MASONRY. 5
extraordinary privileges, to which Masons have
always laid claim, and which they have almost
always possessed---privileges, which no other
·artists could have confidence to ask, or liberty to
enjoy; and there appears to be some foundation
for that ancient and respectable order ofFree Ma-
sons, whose OJ:igin. we are now to investigate,
and whose progress we are soon to detail.
BuT, that we may be enabled to discover Free
' Masonry under those various forms, which it has
assumed in different countries, and at different
times, befo1'6. it received the name which it now
bears, tt will be necessary to give a short de-
scription of the nature of this institution, with*
out developing those mysteries, or revealing
those ceremonial observances which are known
only to the brethren of the order.
FttEE MAsomY is an ancient and respectable in-
stitution, embracing individuals of every nation,
of every religion, and of every 'condition in life.
Wealth, power, and talents are not necessary to
the person of a Free Mason. An unblemished
character, and a virtuous condutl, are the only
qualifications which are requisitefor admission into
the Order. In order to confirm this institution,and
attain the ends for which it was originally formed,
every candidate must come under a solemn en-
gagement neveT to divulge the mysteries and
ceremonies of the Order, nor communicate to
the
~-
-
6 THE HISTORY OF
the uninitiated, thofe important precepts, with
which he may be entrusted; and those proceed-
ings and plans, in which the Fraternity may be
engaged. After the candidate bas undergone the
necessary ceremonies, and received the usual in-
structions, appropriate words, and significant signs
are imparted to him, that he max be enabled to
distinguish his Brethren of the Order from the un-
initiated public; and convince others that he is en-
titled to the privileges of a Brother, should he
be visited by diftrefs or want, in a distant land.
If the newly ad~itted member be found quali-
fied for a higher degree, he is promoted, after due
intervals of probation, till he has received that
Masonic knowledge, which enables him to hold
the highest offices of truft, to which the Fra-
ternity can raise its members. In all ages, it
has been the objet\: of Free 1\Iasonry, not on-
ly to inform the minds of its members, by.
instructing them in the sciences and useful
arts, but to better their hearts by enforcing
the preceptS of religion and morality. In the
course of the ceremonies or initiation, brotherly
love, loyalty, and other virtues, are inculcated in
hieroglyphic symbols; and the candidate is often
reminded, that there is an eye above which ob-
serveth the workings of his heart, and is ever
fixed upon the thoughts and the actions of men~
At regular and appointed seasons, convivial meet-
ings of the Fraternity are held in lodges con-
structed for this purpose: Temperance, harmo-
ny,
- ,..-.,... -
-- Digitized by Google
- · - -- - ~--.........-
FREE MASONRY. 7
ny, and joy, characterise these mixed assem-
blies. All distinctions of rank seem to be laid
aside, all differences in religious and political sen-
timents are forgotten; and those petty quarrels
which disturb the quiet of private life, cease to
agitate the mind. Every one strives to give hap-
piness to his brother; and men seem to recollect,
for once, that they are sprung from the same ori-
gin, that they are possessed of the same nature
and are destined for the same end.
SucH are the general features of an institution,
which has of late produced so great division in
the sentiments of the learned, respecting its origin
and tendency. While a certain class of men*,
a little over-anxious for the dignity of their order,
have represented itascoevalwiththeworld; others,
influenced by an opposite motive, have maintain-
ed it to be the invention of English Jesuits, to·
promote the views of that intriguing and danger-
ous association t. Some philosophers, among
whom we may reckon the celebrated Chevalier
Ramsay, have laboured to prove, that Free Ma-
sonry arose during the Crusades ; that it was a
secondary order of chivalry; that its fonns origi-
ginated
• Anderson's History and Constitutions of Free Masonry,
p. I. Desagulier'sConstitutions, p. I. Smith's Use and Abuse
of. Free Masonry, p. 27. Preston's illuatrations of Masonry,
p.-6. 10th edition.
t Manuscript of Bode of Germany, in the possession of M.
Mounier.
Digitized by Google
I !·
- ·-.
THE HISTORY OF
ginated from that warlike institution; and were
adapted to the peaceful habits of scientific ~en*,
Mr Clincht has attempted, with conside~ble in-
genu\ty and learning, to deduce its originfrom the
institution of Pythagoras. M. Barruelt supposes,
that it is a continuation of. the Templars; while
others, with a degree of audacity and malice,
rarely to be found in the character of ingenuous
men, have imputed the origin of Free Ma&<>nry
to secret associations, averse to the interests of
true government, and pursuing the villanous .
and chimerical project of ·levelling the distinc-
tions of society, and freeing the human mind
from the secret obligations of morality and reli-
gion.
WITHOUT adopting any of these untenable
opinions, or attempting to discover the precise
period when Free Masonry arose, it may be
sufficient to show, that it can justly lay claim to
an early origin, and that it .has existed from that
period to the present day, under different forms,
and different appellationsII· In the execution
this
• Leyden's Preliminarymeie~f!'~ the Complaynt of
Scotland, p. 67, 7t.. ~.: .
·:·...~-)~'it~(_. .
t Anthologia Hiboinicil, for Ja.uary, March, April, and
jUlie 1794· .
t Memoirs of Jacribiniain, vol.~i., P:-377• 378, 6-c. .
II M. Mounier observes, that if the proer of Free Maso~s
existed am6ng the ~ients, it would-have been mentioned by
cotemporary
. .
- - ~ -
~---·- • . ._ Dig4iz~ ~ogl
.... • - - ~·- - -~'lr~· - 0..... - - - -
FREE MASONRY.
of this task, the candid enquirer will be satisfied
with strong and numerous resemblances, as the
nature of the subject excludes the possibility of
rigid demonstration. Every huinan institut:ioll'
is subject to great and numerous variations ; the
different aspects under which they appear, a:nd
the principles by which they are regulated,
depend upon the progress of civilization, upon
the nature of the government by which they
are protected, and on the peculiar opinions and
habits of their members. If, therefore, in com-'
paring Free Masonry with other ancient associa-
tions,
contemporary authon. This argument, however, for there-
cency of their origin, is far from being conclusive. A secret
association unconnected with national affairs, would seldom
come under the consideration of contemporary writers, who
could orily tell their readers that such an association existed.
They who believe that the Eleusinian mysteries were those of
Free Masonry, under a different appellation, wiH. deny the
premises from which Mounier's ~onclusion is drawn. Th~se
mysteries existed in the eighth century of .the Christian a:ra,
and have been mentioned by contemporary authors, on ac-
count of their connection with the history of the times, and
the religion of their country. From the eighth century, to
the revival of learning in Europ~,. Free Masonry must have
been in a very languishing condition, and could not engag~ ·
the attention of writers, when but few lodges, and still fewer
authors existed. The minds of meri were then· bent upon
less noble pursuits. Science and common sense were no
where to be found ; and. those amiable propensities of the
heart, upon which Free Masonry is founded, were smothered
under that debasing superstition, which characterised tltose
a~s of ignorance and iniquity.
B
~·-"'-'
...____ oig,tizect by Goo le
.
-
---··
~ -
JO THE HISTORY OF
tions, we should find it coincide with them in
every circumstance, there would be st,rong rea-
sons for suspecting, that the imagination of the
writer had counterfeited resemblances when des-
titute of authentic information; or that the Or-
der had adopted the rites and ceremonies of
antiquity, to cloak the recency of their origin,
to command the veneration, and excite the no-
tice of the public. Against Free Masonry, how-
ever, this charge cannot be preferred: We shall
have occasion to consider it when comiected
with the idolatry of the heathens, when devot-
ed to the church of Rome, and when flourishing
under the milder influence of the reformed re-
ligion.
As men in the early ages of society, were des-
titute of those methods of diffusing knowledge
which we now enjoy, and even of those which
were used in Greece and Rome, when the art of.
printing was unknown ; the few discoveries in
art and science which were then made, must
have been confined to a small number of indivi-
duals. In these ages, the pursuit of science
must have been a secondary consideration, and
those who did venture to explore th~ untrodden
regions of knowledge, would overlook those un-
substantial speculations, which gratify the curio-
sity of philosophic men; and would fix their at-
tention on those only which terminate in pub-
lic utility, and .administer to the necessities of
. · life.
FR.EE MASONRY. II
life. As architecture could only be preceded
by agriculture itself, it must have been in
this science that the first efforts of human skill '
were tried; and in which man must have first
experienced success in extending his dominions
over the works of nature. The first archi~
'tects, therefore, would be philosophers. They
alone required the assistance of art; and they
alone would endeavour to obtain it. The infor-
mation which was acquired individually, would
be imparted to others of the same profession;
and an association '"·auld be formed for the mu-
tual communication of knowledge, and the n:u-
tual improvement of its members. In ,o;der t~
preserve among themselYes that itit(irmation
which they alone collected ; in order to exc-
ite'
amon~t others a higher degree of respe-
ct for their
profession, and prevent the intmsi~ ·of those
who were ignorant of architecture, and; conse-
quently, cauld not promote the bbject ·of'the in~
stitution;·appropriate words and signs would be
communicated to its members; and significant
ceremonies would be performed. at their initia-
tion, that their engagement to secrecy might be
impressed·upon their minds, and greater regard
excited for the information they were to receive.
Nor'is this mere speculation; there exist.at·this
day, in the desarts of Egypt, such monuments
of arbhitecture, as inust have been rear~d in '
those early ages, which ·precede the. !ecords ·of
authentic history ; and the erection of these stu-
B z . pendous
. - Digiti ed by G<;Jogle
--- - ~ · .
- -
THE HISTORY OF
pendous fabrics, must have required an :acq~n­
tance \\:ith the mechanical arts, which is not in
the: possession ~fmodern architects. It is an un~
doubted fact, also, that there existed, in these
days, a particular association of men, t~ whom
scientific knowledge was confined, and who re-
sembJed the society of Free Masons in every
thing but the name. ·
IN Egypt, and those countries of Asil:l which
lie contiguous to that f~voured kingdom, the arts
and sciences were cultivated with success, while
other nations were involved in ignoranc~ : it is
here, therefore, that Free Maso~ry W()uld flourish,
and here only can we discov~t ~arks of it~ exist-
~nce ip the remot~st ages. It i~ e,xtre,n~ly Pl'9-:
bable, t~t the first, and the only object of, the
Socie~y of Masons, was the ~utual . co~~­
tion or' knowledge co~11ected with their .profe~­
sion; and ,that those only would gain a4.mittance
into thei~ ~rder, whos~ laboUrs were s~b~idiar.y .
to those of the architect. But when the ~mbi­
tion 9r.vani~y of t~~ Egyptian, priest~ .prq1Jlp~e4
them to erect huger and expep.sive fa~qs, fpr ce-
lebrating th~ worship of their.~s, or p~rpetuat­
ing the memoxy of their kings, they· would n~
turally d~sire to participate in that scientific
knowledge, which was .possessed by the ~hi­
teet& they.employed;· and as the sacerdotal ·oro:
der seldom fail, among a superstitious peppJ.e• .to
gain the opjects of their ambition, they would,
in
Dig•tized by Google
- ............. ~-- - -~ ............
FREE MASONRY~-
in tbjs cas_e, succ~d. in their attempu, a~d· be ini.:.
tjate4 i»fo tb.e mysteries, as well as instNcted
in. the ~cien.ce i>f Free Masons. These remarks
will not ~nly assist us in discoveri.ng the SO}lrCe,
froJU which the Egyptian priests .derived that
knowledge, for which they have been so .mghly
celebrated ; they will aid us also in accounting
for those changes which were .superinduced: on
the forms .of Free Masonry, an~ for the admiS.:
sion of ~en into the Order, whose professions
had no connection with the royal art.
WHEN t11e Egyptian priests had, in this ma.a._.
ner, prQCured admission into the Society of Free
~ns, they.connec~ed t~ mythology of their
country, lJ.nd theiz: m,t:whysic:al.sp~ulations coll-
cern.i,ng the uature of(iod, and the condition of
maJ);·with rm asso.ciati~n ·futmed for the exclu.=
sire pW]>C)se of scientific improvement, and pro.:
quced that COll\bina.tion pf science and theology
which, in after ages, fOrmed. such a conspicuous
part of the principles of·Free Masonry. · · ·•
.T~ knpwledge of the Egyptians was carefully'
coqcealed. from·the .vulgar; and when the priestit
did condescend to communicate it to the learned
men of other nations, it .was conferrep in s.JIJl~
bois and hieroglyphic~, accompanied with par-
ticular rites and ceremonies', mar~g .t~ v~u.e.
of the gift ·they bestowed. What those·ceremo-
~~ were, w.hic.h were performed at initiation in-
to..
14 THE HISTOllY or
to the Egyptian mysteries, we are unable, at this
diatance of time, to detennine. But as the Eleu-
sinian and other mysteries had their origin in
Egypt, we may be able, perhaps, to discover the
qualities of the fountain, by examining the na-
ture of the stream.
THE immense population of Egypt, conjoined
with other causes, occasioned frequent emigrations
from that enliglltened country. In this manner it
became the centre of civiliz.ation, and introduced
into the most distant and savage climes, the
sublime mysteries of its religion, and those im-
portant discoveries and useful inventions, which
originated in the ingenuity of its inhabitants.
The first colony of the Egyptians that arnved in
Greece, was conducted by lnachus, about nine-
teen hundred and seventy years before the Chris-
tian rera; and about three centuries afterwards, he ·
was followed by Cecrops, Cadmus, and Danaus•.
The savage inhabitants of Greece beheld with as-
tonishment the magical tricks of the Egyptians;
and regarded as gods those skilful adventurers, who
communicated to them the arts and sciences of
their native landf. In this manner were sown
those
• Voyage du jeWle Anac:harsis en Grece, 4tb. tom. i. p. 2.
Cecrops arrived in Attica in 1657, B. C. Cadmus came from
Phenicia to Beotia in I 594, B. C. and Danaus to Argolis in
• 1586, B. C•
.t Bochart Geograph. Sac:. lib. i. cap.. 20. Herodotus,
lib. i. cap. 58. Robertson's Hist. Antient Greece, p. 45, 46,
· Digitized by Gooole
- - - __... - - - - 0 <• ·-
FREE 1'4ASONRY. IS
those seeds of improvement, which, in future
-ages, exalted Greece to such pre-eminence
among the nations.
ArrE.R the Egyptian colonies had obtaiDed a
secure settlement in their new territories, and
were freed from those uneasy apprehensions,
which generally trouble the invaders of a fore~gn
land ; they instituted, after the manner of their
ancestors, particular festivals or mysteries, in
honour of those, who had benefited their country
by arts or by arms. In the reign of Ericthoni-
us, about fifteen hundred years before the c;.om-
mencement of our cera•, the Eleusinian myste-
ries were instituted in honour of Ceres, who, hav-
ing come to Greece in quest of. her daughter,
resided with Triptolemus at Eleusis, and in-
structed him in the knowledge of agriculture, .
and in the still n:tore important knowledge of a
future statef.
ABouT the same time, the Panathenea were in- ,
stituted in honour of Minerva, and the Diony-
sian mysteries in honour of Bacchus, who invent-
ed theatres:t:, and instructed the Greeks in many
useful arts, but particularly in the culture of the
• Robertson's Greece, p. 58, 59·
t !socrates Paneg. t. J.p. 132.
t Polydoc. Virg. de Rerum Invent. lib. 3• cap. 13.
'
- ~..,_, -
vine.
Digitized by Goo-gle
- ~ ~ ..__... _
__......,..
THE HISTORY OF
Wle*. That the Eleusinian and Dionysian m:y-
~ries, were iptimately connected with the pro-
gress of the arts and sciences,. is manifest from
the very end for which they were formed; and
that . they were mOdelled upon the ·mysteries
of Isis and Osiris, celebrated in Egypt, is pro-
bable from the similarity of their origin, as well
as from the consent of artcient authorsf. If
there be any plausibility in our fonrter reasoning,
concerning the origin of knowledge in Egypt, it
will follow, that the Dionysia and the mysteries
of Eleusis, were societies of Free Masons, formed
for scientific improvement, thbugh tinctured with
the doctrines of the Egyptian mythology.
BuT it is not from conjecture only that this con-
clusidn may be drawn. The striking similarity
among the external forms of these secret associa-
tions, and the still more striking similarity of the
objects they had in view, are strong proofs, that
they
• Robertson's Greece, p. 59· Bacchus or Dionysius came in-
t~ Greece during the reign of Amphyctyon, who fiourished
about 1497, B. C.
'f En adsum natura parens tuis Luci admota precibus sum-
ma numinum,--cujus ·numen unicum, multiformi specie, ritu
vario, totus veneratur orbis. Me primogenii Phryges Pessi-
nunticam nominant de4m matrem; hinc Autochtones Attici
Cecropiam Minervam (alluding to the Panathenea) ; lllinc
Cretes Dictynnam Dianam, &:c. Eleusinii vetustam Deam
Cererem ; priscaque doctrina pollentes Egyptii, ceremoniis me
prorsus propriis percolentes, appellant vero· nomine reginam.
lsidem. L. Apuleii Metamorph, lib. xi.
- ---,
I
ar ilifi •ser !>:
_ _ _ _ ___,~
D,;.;;
iq..-
'tiz;.;,;
ed;,;;
b_,_
y G
...:::=--.-::-;
00 le _
_ J
FREE MASONRY. 17
they were only different streams issuing from a ·
common fountain. Those who were initiated
int!o the Eleusinian mysteries, were bound by the .
most awful engagements, to conceal the instruc- ·
tions they received, and the ceremonies that
were performed*. None were admitted as can·
didates, till they arrived at a certain age; and par- ..
ticular persons were appointed, to examine and .
prepare them for the rites of initiation t. Those,
whose conduct was found irregular, or who had
been guilty of atrocious crimes, were rejected as
unworthy of initiation, while the successful can-
didates were instructed, by significant symbols,
in the principles of religiont; were exhorted to
quell every turbulent appetite and passionII; and
to merit, by the improvement of their minds,and
the purity of their hearts, those ineffable benefits
which they were .still to receive f. Significant
words were communicated to the members :
Grand officers presided over their assemblies ** :
Their emblems were exactly similar to thofe of
Free
• Andoc. do Myst. p. 7• Meursius in Eleus. Myst. cap.
20. This latter author has collected all the passages infJltient
writers, about the Eleusinian mysteries.
t Hesychius in de-•·
:t ClCJ11ens. Alexand. Strom. lib. i. p. 3ZJ.lib. vii. p. 845.
IJ Porphyr. ap. Stob. Eclog. Phys. p. 142.
4ft' Arrian in Epictet. lib. ill. cap. :n. p. 440.
•• .Robertoon's Greece, P• u.7.
c
Digitized by Google
18 TilE HISTOR.Y OF
Free Masonry •; and the candidate ad..anced
from one degree to another, till he received aH.
the lessons of wisdom and of virtue, whieh tile
priests could impart f. But besides these cir-
cqmstances of resemblance, there are two facts,
transmitted to us by antient authors, which have
an astonishing similarity to the ceremonies of
the third degree of Free 'Masonry. So striking
i$ the resemblance, that every brother of the Or-
der who is acquainted with them, cannot ques-
tion, for a moment, the opinion which we have
been attempting to support t.
HAVING thus mentioned some features of
resemblance between the mysteries of Eleusis,
and those of Free Masonry ; let us now attend
to the sentiments of contemporaries, respecting
these secret associations ; and we will find, that
they have been treated with the same illiberali-
ty ·and iasolence. That some men, who, from
self-sufficitmcy, or unsocial dispositions, have re-
fused to be admitted into these Orders, should de-
tract from the character of an association, which
Jiretends to enlighten the learned, and expand
the affections of narrow and contracted minds,
· is
• Euaeb. Prepar. Evangel. lib. iii. cap. 12. p. •·•7·
t Petav. ad. Themist. p. 414~ An111:harsis. tom. iii. p. 582.
t The Brethren of the Order may consult, for this pur-
pose, the article Eleusinia, in the 6th vol. of the last edition of
the Encyclopaedia Britannica, and Robertson's history of
Antient Gs:eecc, p. 127.
Digitized by Google
19
is by no means a matter of surprise ; and it is
equally consistent with human nature, that those,
whose irregular conduct had excluded them from
initiation, should calumniate an Order, whose
blessings they were not allowed to participate,
and whose honours they were prohibited to
share. : Men of this description represented the
celebration of the E_
leusinian mysteries, as scenes
of riot and debauchery; and reproached the
members of the association, that .they were not
more virtuous, and more holy than themselves •.
But it is the opinion of contemporary writ-
ers, that these rumours were wholly conjectu-
ral; and originated in the silence of the initiated1
and the ignorance of the vulgar. They even
maintain, that the mysteries of Eleusis produced
sanctity of manners, attention to the social du-
ties, and a desire to be as distinguished by vir-
tue, as by silence t. The illustrious Socrates
could never be prevailed upon to partake of
these mysteriest:; and Diogenes, having receiv-
ed a similar solicitation, replied, That Patrecion,
a notorious robber, obtained initiation; and that
Epaminondas and Agesilau~ never desired itl!.
But
·'
• Robertson•s Greece, p. 127, Porphyr. de Abstincntia
lib. 4· p. 353· Julian orat. 5· p. 173·
t Encyclopoedia Britannica, article Eleusinio.
t Lucian in Dtmonact. t. 2. p. 380.
II Plut. de aud. ,Poet t. ~. p. 21. Diog. Laert li~. 6. §." 39-
C2
.. ...
,
THE HISTOR.Y QF
But did not these men know, that in all hu-
man societies, the virtuous and the noble must,
sometimes, associate with the worthless and the
mean ? Did they .not know that there ofteQ
kneel in the same temple, the righteous and
the profane; and that the saint and the sinner
frequently officiate at the same altar ? Thus did
the philosophers of antiquity calumniate and de-
spise the mysteries of Eleusis ; and, in the same
manner, have some pretended philosophers of
our own day, defamed the character, and ques-
tioned the motives of Free Masons. With a lit-
tle less modesty than the ancients, they have
not, like them, quarrelled us, because we are
not more 'Virtuous than themselves; they have
told us, that we are less than the l~t of men,
and charged upon us crimes as detestable in the
eyes of Masons, as tbey are ho~ile tQ the inte':"
rests of men.
,THIS similarity of treatment, which the my7
~teries of Ceres and Free Masonry have received,
is no ~mall proof of the similarity of their origin,
and their object. To this conclusion, howeve~,
~t may be objected, that though the points of
resemblance between these secret societies are
numerous, yet there were circumstances in the
celebration of the Eleusinian mysteries, which
have no counterpart in the ceremonies of Free
Masonry. The sacrifices, purifications, hymns,
~n4 dances, which were necessary in the festival
9f
l
~·c -•t --...
Digitized by 0(
~
6 ~ _j
FR.U MASomY.
of Ceres, have, indeed, no place in the society of
Free Masons. But these points of dissimilarity,
.ill$tead of weakening, rather strengthen our opi~
nion. It cannot be expected, that in the reign
of Polytheism, just sentiments of the deity should
be entertained ; and much less, that the adhe~
rents of Christianity, should bend their knees to
the gods of the heathens. The antients wor~
shipped those beings, who conferred on them the
most signal benefits, with sacrifices, purifications,
and other tokens of their humility and grati-
tude. But when revelation had disclosed to man
more amiable sentiments concerning the Di.
vine Being, the society of Free Masons banished
from their IDfSteries, those useless rites, with
which the antient brethren of the Order;lttempt-
ed to appease, and requite their deiues; and mo-
delled their ceremonies upon this foundation, that
there is but one God, who must be worshippe.d
in spirit and in truth.
THE mysteries of Ceres were not confined to
the city of Eleusis; they were introduced into
Athens about thirteen hundred and fifty~ix
years before Christ•; and, with a few slight va-·
-riations, were observed in Phrygia, Cyprua,
Crete, and Sicilyf. They bad reached even to
the
lt Playfair's Chronology.
t Lucii Apuleii Metamorpb.lib. xi. p. 197, 198.
o,g .-d by Google
THE HISTOllY OF
the ·capital of France*; and it is highly proba-
hle that, in 1J. short time after, they were intro-
duced into Britain, and other northern ,king-
doms. In the reign of the Emperor Adrian!!,
they were carried into Rome, and were celebra- ·
ted, in. that metropolis, with the same rites ancl
ceremonies, which were performed in the hum-
ble village of Eleusis. They had contracted
impurities, however, from the length of their
duration, and the corruption of their abettors;
and though the forms of initiation were still sym-
bolical of the original, and noble objects of the
institution ; yet the licentious Romans mistook
the shadow for the substance ; and, while they
underwent the rites of the EleusiRian mysteries,
they were strangers to the·object for wbicb they
were framed.
ABouT the beginning of the fifth century,
Theodosius the Great prohibited, and almost to-
tally extinguished the Pagan Theology in, the
Roman
• Praise or Paris, or a sketch of the French capital, I 8o3·
by S. West. F. R. S. F. A. S. This author obeerves, ia the
preface te his work, that Paris is deriwd· from Par /AI, be·
cause it wu built beside a temple, dedicated to tliat goddeas ;
-that this temple was demolished at 'the establishmeRt of
Christianity, and that there remains, to this day, in the Petits
Augustins, a statue of Isis nursing Orus.
II A. D. 117. Encyclop. Brit. vol. 6. p. HS· Potter's A~.
tiq. vol. I. p. 389.
m ..-- ..._.__.
---------~~nilt•nlii
Siii
s!f~
liillil
..o
ili~
ill~i@i
:,_P
.__
~........----==----=-· •
- . - _
_.......---....,...-----~--------...
FB.U MASONRY.
Roman empir~*; and tl\e mysteries of Eleusis
suffered in the general devastationt. It is pro-
bable, however, that_
these mysteries were secret-
ly celebrated, in spite of the severe edicts of
Theodosius ; and that they were partly contin,._
ed during the dark ages, though stripped of their
original purity and splendour: We are e~
at least, that many rites of the Pagan religion
were periOnned, under the dissembled name of
convivial meetings, long after the publication of
the Emperor's edictst: and Psellusll, informs us,
that the mysteries of Ceres subsisted in Athens
till the eighth century of the Christian rera, and
were. never totally suppressed.
HAVING thus considered the origin and decline
of the mysteries of Eleusis ; and discovered in
them, numerous and prominent features of re"
semblance to those of Free· Masonry; we may
reasonably infer, that the Egyptian mysteries
which gave rise to the funner, liad·a still nearer
affinity to tl:le latter ; and, from this conclusion,
the opinions that were formerly stated, concem-
illg the antiquity o£ the Order, and the origin of
Egyptian knowledge, will receive very consider-
able confirmation.
LET
• Gibbon's History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman
Empire, .Svo. vol. 5· p. I 20. '
t Zosim. Hist. lib. 4-
t Gibbon v. 5· p. no._
II In his treatise on the gods lvhich the Greeks wonhippea,
quoted by Mr Clinch in the Aftt11ologia Hi~mica, for J:mu-
lry 1794, P• 36.
Digitized by Google
FREE MASONRY.
Athens with similar ceremonies. The connec-
tion between the Eleusinian and Dionysian mys-
teries is manifest, also, from the common opi.:.
nion, that Ceres was the mother of Bacchus*~
And Plutarch assures us, that the £gyptian Isis
was the same with Ceres ; that Osiris was the
same with Bacchus ; and that the Dionysia of
~reece was only another name for the Pamylia of
Egyptt. As Bacchus was the inventoroftheatres,
as well as ofdramatical representations, that parti-
cular class of Masons, who were employed in the
erection of these extensive buildings, were called
, the Dionysian artificerst, and were initiated into
the mysteries of their founder, and consequently
into those ofEleusisII· But, troJ:n the tendency of
the human mind to embrace the ceremonial,
while it neglects the substantial part of an insti-
tution, the Dionysian festival, in the degeherate
ages of Greece, was more remarkable for inebria..
tion and licentiousness, than for the cultivation
of virtue and of scie~ ; and he who was at first
celebrated as the inventor ofarts, was afterwards
·worshipped as the god of wine. Those who
were desirous of indulging, secretly, in licentious
mirth,
• Potter, v. i. p. 393•
t De Iside et Osiride. Idee du GO\lvemement Ancien et
Modem de l'Egypte, p. 26. Paris 1743•
t .AArw- n~'""' Aulus Gellius, lib. u. e. 4·
II Vid. Potter, v. i. p. 41.
D
Digitized by Google
,
..
THE HISTORY OF
mirth, and unhallowed festivity, cloaked their
proceedings Wlder the pretence of worshipping
Bacchus; and brought disgrace upon those mys-:
t,:ries, which were instituted for the promotion of
virtue, and the improvement of art.
ABouT two hundr~d years before Christ, an il-
literate and licentious priest came from Greece
to Tuscany, and instituted the Bacchanalia, or
feast of the Bacchanals*· From Tusc~ny they
were imported to Rome; but the promoters of
these midnight orgies havix;tg proceeded to the
farthest extremity of dissipation and disloyalty,
they were abolished throughout ~11 Italy, by a de-
creeofthe senatef. It has bec;n foolishly supposed,
that. theBacchanalia were similar to the Dionysian
mysteries~ merely because they were both dedi-
eated to Bacchus. The Liberalia of Rome was
the ·festival . corresponding to the Dionysia of
Greece t ; all<l: it is probable that this feast wa&
observed, throughout the Roman empire, till the
abrogation of the Pagan theology, in the reign of
Theodosius. The opinion which an impartial
enquirer would form, concerning the nature and
tendency of the mysteries of Bacchus, would not
be very favourable to the character of the insti-
• Tit. Liv. ~b. xxxix. cap. 8.
t Liv. lib. xxxix. cap. I 8. ·
tution.
t Liberalia (says Festus) liberi Festa, quae apud Graeco:J
dicq.ntur Dionysia.---Vid. Universal History, vol. I j. p. 262•
Digitized by Google
FREE MASONRY.
tution. But it should be remember~d that de-
viations from the intentions and form of any as-_
sociation, are no objection to the association it-
self: They are rather proofs of its original puti-
ty and excellence ; as it is not from the paths of
vice, but from those of virtue, that we are ac-
customed to stray.
HITHERTo .we have considered the Dionysian
mysteries under an unpropitious aspect ; let us
now trace them in their progress from Europe to
Asia, where they retained their primitive lustre,
and effectually contributed to the rapid adva.nce-
ment of the fine arts.
About a thousand years before Christ*, the in-
habitants ofAttica, complaining ofthe narrowness
of their territory, and the unfruitfulness ofits soil.
went in quest ofmore extensive and fertile settle-
ments. Being joined by a number of the inhabi-
tants ofsurrounding provinces, they sailed to Asia
Minor, drove out the inhabitants, seized upon the
most eligible situations,and united them under the
name of Ionia, because the greatest number of the
refugees were natives of that Grecian province f.
As the Greeks, prior to the Ionic migration, had
made
• Playfair places the Icnic migration in 1044, B. C. GU-
lies in 1055; and Barthe1emy, the author of Anacbarsis's
Travels, in IOj6.
t Herodotus lib. r. cap. I 42. Gillies's Hist. of Greece, 8\'0.
:vol. i. p. 102.
Digitized by Google
THE HISTORY OF
made considerable progress in the arts and sci~
ences*, they carried these along with them in~
to their new territories ; and introduced into Ionia
the mysteries of Minerva and Dionysius f, before
they were corrupted by l:he licentiousness of the
Athenians. In a short time the Asiatic colonies
surpassed the mother country in prosperity and
science. Sculpture in marble, and the Doric and.
Ionian orders were the result of their ingenuity+·
They returned even into Greece ; they communi-
cated to their ancestors the inventions oftheir own
country; and instructed them in that style of ar-
chitecture, which has been the admiration ofsuc-
ceeding ages. For these improvements the world
is indel$ted to the DIONYSIAN ARTIFICERS, an as-
sociation of scientific ~en, who possessed the
.exclusive privilege of erecting temples, theatres,
and other public buildings in Asia Minor II·
They supplied Ionia, and the surrounding COW'l-
tries, as far as the Hellespont, with theatrical ap-
paratus by contract ; and erected the magnificent
temple at Teos, to Bacchus, the founder of their
order~- These artists were very numerous in
Asia,
• According to the Author of Anacharsis's Travels, the
arts took their rise in Greece about 1547, B. C.
t Chandler's Travels in Asia Minor, p. xoo. 4to. 1775·
The Panathenea and the Dionysian mysteries were instituted
about 300 years before the Ionic migration.
:t Gillies's Hist. Ant. Greece, v. ii. p. 162.
II Strabo, lib. iv. Chishull Antiquitates Asiaticae, p. 107.
Robison's Proofs of a Conspiracy, p. 20.
4ff Ionian Antiquities, published by the Society of Dilet-
~~nti, p. 4: Strabo. lib. iv. Cbishull Antiq. Asiat. p. 139~
FREE MASONRY.
Asia, and existed, und.er the same appellation, in
Syria, Persia, and India •. About three hw1Clred
years before the birth of Christ, a considerable-
number of them were incorporat~d, by command
of the kings of Pergamus, who assigned to them
Teos as asettlen1ent,being the city oftheir tuteJa..
ry godf. The members of this association, which
was intimately connected with the Dionysian
mysteries, were distinguished from the uninitiated
inhabitants of Teos, by the science which they
possessed, and by appropriate words and signs,
by which they could recogniY.e their Brethren of
the Order :f:. Like Free Masons they were di-
vided into lodges, which were distinguished by
different appellations II· They occasionally held
convivial meetings in houses erected and conse-
crated for this purpose; and each separate asso-
ciation was under the direction of' a master, and
presidents, or wardens,. They held a general
meeting
• x.u 'rll AHJIIftiTliJ ArUIJ o'-11' "'''C-rrtf I"XC' ... rt)-..
Strabo. p. 471. Ionian Antiquities, p. 4·
t Chandler's Travels, p. 100. Cbishull Alltiq. .Asiat.
p. 138. Ionian Antiquities, p. 4•
:t Robison's Proofs of a Conspiracy, p. 20.
II One of these lodges was denominated KetroJ .,., An.WSIIJ,
i. ~. Commune Attalistarum, and another Keu., '"" E»* l:11~
Mf(Uift i. ~.Commune Sodalitii Echini. Chishull, p. 139·
1f See the two decrees of these artists preserved in Cbishull,
p.138-149· The place where they assembled is calledt"'lkl-
.,.., eontubernium ; and the society itself, sometimes "''"?'"'YYit
collegium ; -"C'"''~' secta; "'")~, synodos ; U«Nf, eommunitu.
~e Aulus Gellius, lib. 8•.cap. xi
"' .
~------- -~-
Digitized by Google
-- _.__....... -
30. THE HISTORY OF
meeting once a year, which was solemnized with
great pomp and festivity ; and at which the
Brethren partook of a splendid entertainment,
provided by the -master, after they had finished
the sacrifices to their gods, and especially to their
patron Bacchus-*. They used particular uten-
sils in their ceremonial observances ; some of
which were exactly similar to those that are em-
ployed by the Fraternity of Free Masonst: And
the more opulent artists were bound to. provide
for the ex~gencies of their poorer brethren +
·The
very monuments which were reared by these ma-
sons, to the memory of their masters and wardens,
remain to the present day, in the Turkish burying .
grounds, at Siverhissar and Eraki II· The inscrip-
tions upon them express, in strong terms, the gra-
titude of the Fraternity, for their disinterested
exertions in behalf of the Order ; for their gene-
rosity and benevolence to its individual mem-
bers; for their private virtues, as well as for their
public
• Chandler's Travels, p. 103.
t See the decree of the Attalists in Chishull, particularly
the pa!>Sages at the bottom of p. I 4I, 142 ; ,;,.A41r1r ), ""'
""" "'(" W""X"f'"'"" •• 'f'll nfl"" XC'"~e~• ~"""'""• i.l'.in delubro c:tiam,
ultra ea quae omamento erant, non pauca uten~ilia rcliquit.
:t Chishull, p. 140.
II Chandler'~ Travels, p. xoo. These monuments were
erected about I 50 years before Christ. The inscriptions up-
on them were published by Edmund Chi~hull, in 1728, froiiJ
copies taken by Consul Sherard in I 709, and examined in
1716. Ionian Antiquities, p. 3·
• _ _ __o_
;9,,_
;ze
_d by G_
oogle ~ ,_
_J
FREE MASONRY.
public conduct. From some circ;:umstances,
which are stated in these .inscriptions, but par-
ticularly from the name of one of the lodges;
it is highly probable, that Atta.hp, King of Per-
gamus, was a member of the .Dionysian Frater-
nity.
SucH is the nature of that association of archi-
tects, who -erected d~ose splendid edifices in Io-
nia, whose ruins even afford us instruction, while
they. excite our surprise. If it be possible to
prove the identity of any two societies, from "the
coincidenc.e of their external fonns, we are au-
thorised to conclude, that the Fraternity of the
Ioniat;J. architects, and the Fraternity of Free
Masons, are exactly the same; and as the .for-
mer practised the mysteries of Bacchus and Ce- •
·res, $everal of whi~h we have shown to be si~­
lar to the mysteries of Masonry.; we may ~er
ly ~rm. ·that, in their internal, as well as: e.x-
~ernal procedure,. the Society of· Free ·Masons
resembles the Dionysiacs of Asia ~nor"*.
THE opinion, therefore, of Free Masons, t~t
their Order existed, and flourished at the building
of Solomon's temple, is by no means so preg-
nant with absurdity, as some men would wish
us
• Dr Robison, who will not be suspected of partiality to
Free Masons, ascribes their origin to the Dionysian artists.
It is impossible,indeed,for any candid enquirer to call in ques-
tio~ their identity.
~;9,tized by Google
_
..
THE HISTORY OF
us to believe. We have already shown, from
aut1aentic sources of information, that the mys-
teries of Ceres and Bacchus, were instituted about
four hundred years before the reign of Solomon*;
arid there are strong reasons for belieVing, that
even the association of the Dionysian architects
existed before the building of the temple. It
was not, indeed, till about three hundred years
before the birth of Christ, that they were incor-
porated·at Teos, under the Kings of Pergatnus;
but it is universally aHowed, that they arose
long before their settlement in Ionia, and, what
is more to our present purpOSe, that they exist-
ed in the very land of Judeat. It is observed by
Dr Robison:J:, that this association came from
Persia into Syria, along with that style of archi-
• tecture, which is called Grecian : And since we
are informed by JosephusI!, that that species. of
architecture was used at the erection of the tem-
ple; we are authorised to infer, not only that the
Dionysiacs existed before the reign of Solomon,
but that they assisted this monarch in building
that magnificent fabric, which he reared to the
God of Israel. Nothing, indeed, can be ·more
sim-
• According tO Phlyfair's Chronology, the temple of Solo-
1il0n was begun in IOI6, and finished in xoo8, B. C. The
Eleusinian mysteries were introduced into Athens in 1356,
I. C. a considerable time after their iDstitution.
t R.obisoa's Proofs of a Conspiracy, p. 20.
t Proofs of a Conspiracy, p. 20, 21.
II Jcwieh Antiquities, .Book viii. chap. S·
' Digitized by Google
.- .. -
--- - - - - ~-____....._ - -. . ·
---- ....._- -~~--
FJlEE MASONRY. 33
simple and consistent ~ the creed of the Fn..
ternity, concerning the state of their order ·at
this period. The vicinity of Jerusalem to'Egypt;
the connection of Solomon with the Royal Fa-
mily of that kingdom* ; the progress of the
Egyptians in architectural science ; their attach-
ment to mysteries, and hieroglyphic symbols;
and the probability of their being employed by
the king of Israel, are additiOnal considerations,
which colTOborate the sentiments qf Free Ma-
sOns, and absolve them from those charges of
credulity and·pride, with which they have been
loaded.
.,
To these opinioris, it·may be objected, that if
the Fraternity of Free ~ns flourished during
the reign of SokJmon, 'it w®ld: have exist~ ia.
Judea in after ages, and. attracted .tbe notice' of
sacred or profane ·historians. · Whether ··or ·not
this objection is well foUnded, we shall ~ot pre·
tend to detennine; but if it can be sboWn, that
there did ex.ist, after the building of the 'temple,
an association of men, resembling Fm Masons,
in the nature, ceremonies, and object of their
institution ; the force of the objection will not
only be taken away, but additional strength will
be communicated to the opinion which we have
been supporting. The a!!Jsociation here alluded to,
"
• Josepbua's J~wish Antiquities, Book viii, chap• 2•
__.....,. --- -.
.H THE HISTORY OF
kthat ofthe Essenes, whose origin andeentiments
bave occasio~d much discU88ioo among eccle-
aiarical historians : They ane all of one min41,
however, respecting :the constitution, lUld ob-
tervances of this religiQus order.
W.HXN a candidate was proposed for~
the strictest scrutiny was made .into his charac-
ter•. If his life bad hitherto been exemplary.;
and if he appeared capable ·of curbing his pu-
aions, and MgU}ati:Dg bis conduct, acoording to
the virtuous, though austere maxims of their
order, he was presented, at the expiration ot
his noviciate, with a white garment, as an em-
blem of the regularity ai his conduet, ian61 the
purity of hit heartt. A soltmn oath was_ then
administered to him, that ·
he would De'Ver di-
hlge the mysteriea of the Order; that he woul~
·make no innovations on the doctrines of the ·so-
ciety; :alid that he would continue in that ho-
nourable courae f)f piety and virtue, which he had
.begun to p\iraue~. Like Free Masons, ,they iJl..
ttructe4 the. young member in tiM=- Juiowledp
which
_• ~ictet. ~Theologie ChretiCIUlCi, tom. iii. fit. 3• p. 1090
BaSIIage's History.of the Jews, booldi. chap. 12. S 24·
t Pictet4Theo1og. Chrtt. tom. ill. pt. 3• p. I 07, I o8, 169.
tiamage's History of the Jews, b. ii. chap. 12. S 21.
:t Pictet. Theolog. Chret. tom. iii. pt. 3· P• 107. Baa-
Mje's History of the Jc.,.,, b, U• c:bap. r2. f 24. ·
--- --- o;9,tizedbyGO gle ----·
--------
'· - - ------
-
FR.U MASONRY. 3.5
which they derived from their aaeeltDrs•: ~
admitted no, w.omea i11to their Ordut. They
had particular signs fur .Rcognising each other,
which have a strong resemblance to those of
Free Masons~· They had colleges or places
-,£retirement 11, where they resorted to practise
their rites, and settle the affairs of the society ;
and, after the per&maace of these duties, they
assembled in a large hall, where an entertain.
meat was provided for them by the presi~nt, OJ
master of· the college, who allotted a. certain
quantity of provisions to every individual,.
They abolished all distinctions ef rank ; and...i£
P,reference was ever given, it wa8 given to piety,
liberality, and virtue". Treasurers were ap..
poinwd iD every town, to supply the wan~ of
i~nt
• Philo de Vita Contemplativ~J, apud opera, p. 69l. Bamage,
b. ii. ch. 13. S8. ·
t Bamage, b. ii, chap. 12. S 26. Id. Id. S 22.
t In order to be.conviaced of this, our brethl'll!l of ·the Or.
der may coosult some of the works already quoted ; particu..
larly, Philo's Treatise de Vita Contcl!lplat.iv", ~~ o~a,
p. 691.
UBasnage, b. iii. c. 12. S 14. vid. opera Philonis, p. 6i9·
When Philo, in his Treatise, entitled •• ~od omnis probus
Liber," is describing the society of the Essenes, he employs
the IIUDe terms to denote the association itself, and thei., places
of uaceting~ which are used in the decree of the Dionysian3
already mentioned. Vide Philo de Yita Contemplativa, p. 69I.
I[ Ramage, b. iii. c. I~ • :u.
•• Id. ld. f 20, 22. Philonis Opera, p. 678.
E2
Digitized by Coogle
THE HISTORY OF
indigent strangers•. The Essenes pretended
to higher degrees of piety and knowledge, than
the uninitiated vulgar ; and thoUgh their pre-
tensions were high, they were never questioned
by their enemies. Austerity of manners was
one of the chief char;tcteristics of the Essenian
Fraternities: They frequently assembled, how-
ever, in convivial parties; and relaxed for a
while the severity of those duties, which they
were accustomed to perform t. This remark-
able coincidence, between the chief features of
the Masonic and Essenian Fraternities, can be
accousted for, only 1Sy referring them to the
same ongm. Were the circumstances of re-
semblance, either few or fanciful, the similarity
might have beeQ. merely Cf!Sual. But when the
nature, the object, and the external fol1Il8 of
two ill.Stit~tions, are precisely the same, the
arguments for their identity, are something more
than presumptive. There is one point, how-
ever, which may, at first sight, seem to militate
against this supposition. The Essenes appear to
have been in no respects connected with archi-
tecture; nor addicted to those sciences and pur-
s~ts, which ~re subsidiary to the art of building.
That the Esseiles directed their attention to par-
ticular sciences, which they pretended to have
r~ceived
• Basnage, b. iii. c. 12. S 20. chap. 13. S x.
t Dicam aliquid de sodalitiia eorum, quoties ~ius tonvi-
via ~elebrant. PhiloDis ope~ p. 692:
~••z~A=-~~-·~·--·~-~-----
FREE MASONR.Y. 37
received from their fathers, is allowed ·by aU
writers ; but, whether or not these sciences were
in any shape connected with architecture, we are,
at this distance of time, unable to determine.
Be this as it may, uncertainty upon this head, nay,
even a,n assurance that the Essenes were uncon-
nected. with architectural science, will not affect
the hypothesis which we have been maintaining.
For there have ~n, and still are, many associa-
tions of Free Masons, where no architects are
members, and which have no connection with the
art of building. But if this is not deemed a suf...
ficient answer to the objection, an enquiry into
the origin of the Essenes will probably remove it
altogether, while it affords additional evidence,
for the identity of the Masonic and Essenian as.. -
soci;1tions~
THE opinions, both of sacred and profime his-
torians, concerning the origin of the Essenes,
have been widely different. They all agree,
however, in representing them as an ancient as-
SQciation, originating from particular fraternities,
which formerly exifted in the land of Judea •.
Pliny refers them to such a remote antiquityt,
that
• Gale's Court or the Gentiles, part ii. book ii. chap. 6.
· p. 14'7· ~ Trihaer. lib. Ui. cap. ii. Vld. etiam Bamage
b. ii. ch. 1 ,, S 4; and Pictet. Theoloi· Chrct. tom. iii. put
iii. p. to6.
t Pliny, h'b. 5• cap. 17. Vsd. etiam Solinus, c. 35· P• 43•
Edit. Salmasii, and Encyclopoedia Britannica, Art•.Esscnes,
~1. 6. P· 739·
Digitized by Google
THI: HISTORY or
that they must have existed during the reign of
Solomon ; and even Baapage~ wbo is ·the oaly
writer that teenu dispoaod to comicler them aa a
recent association, confesses that they uisted un-
der Antigonus, about three hundred years befow
the Christian aa •. Scaliger contends, with
much appearance oftruth. that tbe EneDes were
dacended from the Kasideana, who make such a
conspicuous figure in the history of the ·Macca-
bees t. The K.asideana were a reli~ous &atemi;,.
ty, or an order of dte K.NioBTS ar THE TEMPLE
oF Ju.us.u&M, who bound themselves to adorn
tbe porches of that magnificent strueture, • to
preserve it from injury aad decay t..:This asao- -
ciation was composed of the greatest men of
Israel, who were distinguiahed for t~ dmitable
and peaceful dispositions II ; and always signa..
lized themselves by their ardent zeal for the pu-
rity and preserYation of the. temple f. From
t1aeae facts it appears, that the .E.enea were not
QDly an ucieDt fraternity, but that they origi-
nated from an auociation of architects, who were.
CODQeeted with the building of Solomon's tem-
ple. Nor was tbis order cootincd to the Holy
Land. Like the fraternitiec of the Dionysiacs,
and Free Masons, it existed in all parts of the
world;
• B.mage, beok ii. ebap. ii. f 8. Plctct. :'Theolog. Cbret.
t. ii. put 3· P• 1<>7,
t Scaliger de Emend. Temp.
:t &aligcr EJencb. Trihatf. cap. 22. P. 441.
~ I Maccabees, ft~ 13.
~ Scaliger ut lllfl'l.t
...llllr-~~~..............~
o;9.
,tiz.
ed.
by•
G
._
o•
o~
~~
le
A ___..._..---
worW *;·-ana dlough the lodges in Judea -.re
chiefly, if nat wholly, composed of Jews, yet the
Essenes .admittecl into their order men of every
religion, and everyranlt in life t· They adopted
many oftbe .Egyptiim mysteries :f:; and, like the
priests,df that CCDUntry, the Magi of Persia, and
the Gy.m.nosopb..ista in India, they united the
study ,af. moral, with that of natural philoso-
phy II· .Aluhoilgh1:hey were patronized by He-
rod, aDd 'Mipeattd hy all men <for <the correctness
Qf.thcir CODtucc, aud the innocence -0f their or-
tlertj; :t:hq .4IUft:ered severe persecutions from
the R.olllml, 1i¥ their ordel" was abolished, about
the middle:ofthe 1i:fth century :J::t:; a period ex-
tleJmCly .•fittal.:to tthe wnerabie inat.itutioaa ra
Egypt, ofGIIHDe, aad ofRome. .
. . ·,
C<OOCEcqnm,jth the :Euemim ani MasOnic
Frate~ l1u;the inatitutiGn ~ Pyth~·at
Cmtona. ,After this 'P~er, in .die ·course
ufhis ibUeis<tbroogb E~ypt, Syria, and- :loa~&.
bad btcm•iDitiatedh\to'tbemystdnaofmuse tn-
lightened mngdoaas, .be imported into Em.
the scienca of :Atlia, and offered ~o the ialasbi.:.
tants
• Basnage b. ii. chap. 13. S4· .
tId. Id. chap. 12. S 20. compared with chap. 13. § 4•
,f: Id. Id. chap. 12. S24. . ..
II Pbild's Treatise, entitled, " Q..uod omnis probu,s IJbcr,"
apud Opera, p. 678. · · .
1f Id. Id>chap. 12. S13. 25. ·
. lt Basnage, b* ii. chap. 12. S 25. 26.
•
...- D,grtiz;j-byG ogle
THE HISTORY OJ'
taats of his native 8oil, the important benefits
which he himself had received *. The offers of
the sage having been rejected by his countrymen
of Samosf, he settled at Crotona, in' Italy, where
more ·respect was· paid to his person, and more
attention to his precepts +· .When the kindness
of the Crotonians, and. their aoli~i~ to obtain
scientific information, bad· inspired Pythagoras
with some hopes otsuccess, he selected a num-
ber of his disciples, who, from· the similarity of
their characters, the mildness .of their dispoSi-
tions, and the stetdineas of their conduct,seemed
best adapted for forwarding the purposes he had
in view II· He fol'lllf:d tllese into a fraternity, or
acpara.te order oflilen, whoni he instructed in the
sciences of the east, and to whom he imparted
the mysteries and rites of the Egyptian, Syrian,
aild Ionian associations'. · Before any one ·was
received into the nqmber of his disciples, a mi-
nute and diligent enquiry was made into his tem-
per andcharacter**. If the issue ofthis enquiry
Wa.s·favourable to the candidate, he bOund him-
self, by a solemn engagement, to cOn.ceal, from
the uninitiated, the mysteries which he might re.
ceive
• Pythagoras returned from Egypt about s6o years before
Christ. .
t Jamblicbus de vita Pyihagorae, part i..cap. 5· p•.p. 37·
:t Id. Id. cap. 6. p. 42, 43·
II Gillies's History of Ancient Greece, vol. 2. p. 27.
f Aulus Gellius book i. cap. 9 Gillies, v. 2. P• 27•
•• Jamblichus de vita Pythagorae, cap. i.7. p; 76. Gillies
v. 2. p. 27.
Digitized by 00gle •..
FREE MASONRY.
ceive, and the sciences in which he might be in.
structed *· The_4octrinea of charity, of univer-
sal benevolence, and especially of atfection to the
Brethren of the Order, were warmly recom-
mended to the young disciplest; and such was
the influence which they had upon their minds,
that discord seemed to have been banished from
Italy~ ; and the golden age to have again re-
turned. Strangers of every country, of every re-
ligion, and of every rank. in life, were received, if
properly qualified, into the Pythagorean 3.S$0Cia-
tion II· Like Free Masons they had particular
words and figns, by which they might distinguish
each other, and correspond at a distance '. They
wore white garments, as an emblem of •their itt-
nocenee**· They had a particular regard for
the Eaft ft. They advanced from one degree of
knowledge to another tt. They were forbidden
to commit to writing their mysteries, which were
pre-
• Jamblichus cap. 23. p. 104.
t ld. l::ap. 8. p. 53· cap. 33• p. 193· cap. 6. p. 43• cap. 23.
p. 102. Basnage's History of the Jews, b.ii. cap. 13. S 21.
~nthologia Hibernica for March 1794, p. 181.
t Jamblichus, cap. 7· p. 46.
If Gillies, v. 2. p. 28. Jamblichus,cap. 33·P· 202.
1f Gillies, v. 2. p. 27. Anthologia Hibemica, for March
J794t P• I8J.
•• Basnage, b. ii. chap. 13. S 21. Antholop Hibemita
for March 1794, p. 183.
tt Basnage, b. ii. chap. 13. S 21.
H Jamblichus, cap. 17. p. 72.
F
Digitized by Goo~le
__.._ ........,_..._
-----~-- ~--- --- --- .... - -- -
:--- ~-~
lOS
. THE HIS'fORY OF
preserved solely by tradition*: The Pythagorean
symbols and secretswere borrowed from the Egyp-
tians, the Orphic and Eleusinian rites, the Magi,
the Iberians, and the Celtsf. They consisted
chiefly of the arts and sciences, united with the-
ology and etkics, and were communicated to the
initiated in cyphers and symbolst. To -those
who were destitute of acute ·discernment, these
hieroglyphic representations seemed pregnant
with absurdity, while ?thers, of more penetra-
tion, discovered in them hidden treasures, calcu-
lated to inform the understanding, and purify
the heart II· An association of this nature, found-
ed upon such principles, and fitted for such ends,
did not continue long in obscurity. In a short
time it extended over the kingdoms of Italy and
Sicily, and was diffased even through ancient
Greece, and the islands of the Egean sea,. Like
other secret societies, it was vilified by malicious
men, who were prohibited from fharing its ad-
vantages, from the weakness of their minds and
the depravity of their hearts **. Chagrined
with
• J:unblicbus, part i. cap. 32. p. 191.
t Warburton's Divine Legation ,
of Moses, book iii. sect. 3·
Tol.~. p.132, I33• Jamblichus., cap. 8. p. 139· Gillies. v. 2.
P• "7·
:t Jamblicbua, tap. 8. p. 139· Gillies at llllpra.
II Jambliclius, cap. 23. P• 104; cap. 32. p. 191, 192. It
is remarkable that this often llappens in Free Masonry.
·1r Gillies, v, :2. p. 28. Jamblicbus <;ap. 35· p. 207.
" Id. Id. p. :zoo.
)tttTr • «
I
....
FREE MASONR.Y. 43
with disappointment, and enfiamed with rage,
they often executed vengeance upon the inno-
cent Pythagoreans, and even set fire to the
lodges in which they were assembled*· But
the disciples of the sage persisted in that hon-
ourabl~ cause in which they had embarked;
and, though the persecution of their enemies
drove them from their native land, they ·still
retained .tOr each other the sympathy of bro- ·
thers, and often suffered death in its most ago-
nizing form, rather than violate the engagements
into which they had entered f. An attempt,
like· this, against the society of Free Masons,
has been witnessed in our own day. It has not,
indeed, proceeded to such an extremity of vio-
lence. '{he spirit of extirpation, however, exist-
ed in sentiment, though it had not the courage
to display itself in action. Disaffection to go-
vernment, anp disrespect to religion, were charg-
ed upon them with all the c;:onfidence of truth:
And, had· the governments of Europe been child-
ish enough to swallow the dreams of a few nervoug
philosophers, their subjects might, at this mo-
ment, have been armed against each other, and
the nations of the world embroiled in discord.
FRoM these observations, it is manifes~, that
the Pythagorean and Masonic institutions, were
similar in their external forms, as \\'ell as in the
objects
• Jamblichus p. 208. et seq.
t Id. Id. chap. 32. P• 189.
Fz
•
oi~tizect~_s:;oogle
I •
rHE HISTOJ.Y or
objects which they had in view; and that both
of them experience<\, from contemporaries, the
same ~erited. reproach. Mr Clinch. in his
Essays on Free Masonry*, has enuq1erated, at
great length, all the points of r~mblance be·
tween these two institutions. lie attempts to
prove, that Free Masonry took its rise from the
Pythagorean Fraternity; but though he has been
successful in pointing out a remarkable coinci.
dence between these associations, he has no au-
thority for concluding, that the former originat-
ed from the latter. In a Masonic manuscript,
preserved in the Bodleian library, in the hand..
writing of · King Henry VI. it is expressly
said, that Pythagoras learned masonry from E..
gypt and Syria, and from those countries where
it had been planted by the Phenicians ; that the
Pythagoreani carried it into France; and that it
was, in the course of time, imported from that
country into Englandt. This, indee<i, is. no di-
rect proof of our opinion; it shows Us,at least, that
the same sentiments have been entertained about
four hundred years ago by the Fraternity in Eng...
land. It has beensupposed bysome philosophers~,
that Pythagoras derived his mysteries chiefly from
the
• Published in the Anthologia Hibemica for I794·
t Lives of Leland, He~e, and Wood, Oxford 1771.
Appendix to the life of Leland, No vii. A copy of this ma-
nuscript may be s~:en in every work on Free Masonry.
t Faydit Let~, Nouvelles de 1a Republiquo des L~t~1
Pftobre 1703, p. 472: ·
..
----
-
FREE MASONRY. 45
the Essenes, who were, at that time, much re-
spected, and very numerous,-in Egypt and Syria.
The wonderful similarity, indeed, between these
societies, both in the forms which they had
in common with Free Masonry, and in those Ies_.
ser customs and ceremonies, which were peculiar
to themselves, render such a supposition extreme~
ly probable. It is remarked by all Ecclesiastical
historians, that the Essenes were Pythagoreans,
both in discipline and doctrine* ; without ever
considering that the former existed some hun-
dred years bef9re the birth of Pythagoras f.
The Pythagoreans, therefore, were connected
with the Essenes, and the Essenes with the Kasi.
deans, who engaged to preserve, and adorn the
~emple of Jerusalem:f:.
THERE
• Gregory's Church History, v. I. cent. r.
t Pliny, book 5• cap. 17. Solinus, cap. 35· p. 43·
t: Along with these fraternities, the Druids might hav~
-been mentioned, as resembling Free Masons in the object, a.a
well as in the ceremonies of their Onler. But the learned
are so divided in their sentiments, concerning the nature and
opinions of this Fraternity, that it is difficult to handle the
subject, without transgressing the limits of authentic hirtory.
The mo~ probable of all the hypotheses concerning the origin
of the Druids, is that which supposes them to have learned their
mysteries from the Pytbagoreans. For in the 57th Olym- .
piad, about 550 B. C. a colony of Phocians imported into
Gaul the philosophy a~d the arts of Greece (Justin, lib. 43·
cap•.4·) ; and prior to this period, fraternities of Pythagore-
ans had been established in Greece. Anunianus Marcellinus,
.pib, I S•cap:9·) infoJm& us, " that the Druids were formed in.
' w
•
Digitized by Google
THE HISTORY OF
THERE is one objection to the view which we
have taken of this subject, which, though it has
already been slightly noticed, it may be necessary
more completely to remove. Although it will
be ackqowledged by every unbiassed reader, that
·Free Masonry has a wonderful rese.mblance to
the Eleusinian and Dionysian mysteries, the fra-
ternity of Ionian architects, and the Esseni-
an and Pythagorean associations ; yet some may
be disposed to question the identity of these in-
stitutions, because they had different names, and
because some usages were observed by one, which
were neglected by another. But these circum-
stances of dissimilarity arise from those necessary
changes, which are superinduced upon every in-
stitution, by a spirit of innovatio~ by the caprice
of individuals, and by the various revolutions in
civilized society. Every alteration or improve-
ment in philosophical systems. or ceremonial insti-
tutions, generally produces a corresponding vari-
ation
to fraternities, as the authority of Pythagoras had decreed;"
and, indeed, the similarity of their philosophical tenets (as
detailed in Henry's History of Great Britain, vol. 2. b. r.
chap. iv. 8vo,) to those of the Pythagoreans, authorises us to
conclude, that they borrowed from this philosopher, their forms
and mysteries, as well as their religious and philosophical opi-
nions. This supposition will appear more probable, when we re-
flect that Abaris, a native of Britain~ travelled into Greece,
returned by the way of Crotona, was instructed in the Pytha-
gorean mysteries, and carried back into his native country, the
knowledge which be had acquired. Compare this note with
the !acts..in p. 44· supra,
FREE MASONR.Y. 47
ation in. their name, deduced from the nature of
the improvement, or from the name ofthe innova.
tor. The different associations, for example, whose
nature and tendency we have been considering,
received their names from circumftances merely
casual, and oftenoQftrifling consideration; though
all of them were eftabliihed for the same purpose, ·
and derived from the same source. When the
mrsteries of the Essenes were imported by Py.
tb.agoras into Italy, without undergoing much
variation, they were there denominated the mys-
teries of 'Pythagoras; and, in our own day, they
are called the secrets of Free Masonry, becaus~
many of their symbols are derived from the art
of building, and because they are believed .to
have been invented by an association of archi.
tects, who were anxious to preserve, ampng them-
selves, the knowledge which they had acquired*·
The difference in the ce:re,monial obserirances of
these institutions,maybe accounted for, nearlyup.
on the same principles. From the ignorance,or su-
perior sagacity of those, who presided over the
antient fraternities, some ceremonies would be
insisted upon more than others, some of le~s mo.
ment woul~ be exalted into consequence, while
others of greater importance would be depressed
into ~bscurity. In process of time, therefore,
some
• Symbols derived from the art of building, were also em· '
ployed by the Pythagoreans, for conveying instructiot1 to those,
who were initiated into their fraternity. Vid. Proclus in
EucL lib. Ji.iief. a. &c,
Digitized by Coogle
THE HISTORY OF
some tritling changes would be effected upon
these ceremonies, some rites abolished, and some
introduced. The chief difference, however, be--
tween the antient and modem mysteries, is, in
those points which concern religion. :But this
arises from the great changes which have been
produced in religious knowledge. It cannot
- be supposed that the rites of the, Egyptian, -Jew-
ish, and Grecian reljgions, should be observed by
those, wbe profess only the religion 'of Christ;
or that we should pour out libations to Ceres and
Bacchus, who acknowledge no heavenly superior,
but the true and the. living God. -
·It may be proper here to take notice of an ob-
jection, urged, by M. Barruel, againft the opinion
ofthose, who believe that the mysteries of Free
Masonry are similar to the mysteries of Egypt
and Greece•. From the unfairness with which
this writer has stated the sentiments of his op-
ponents on th¥ subject; from the confidence
and trimnph ·with which he bas proposed his
own ;- and, ·above all, from the disingenuity
with which he has supported diem, many in-
attentive readers may have been led to adopt his
notions, and te form 'aS despicable an idea of the
understandings, as be would wish them to form
of the character of Masons. He takes it for
granted, that all who embrace the opinion which
we have endeavoured to support, must necessari-
ly
• Memoirs of Jacobinism, vol. ii. p. 355--360'-
..
Digitized by Google I
..
-~-~-~-
'
FREE MASONR.Y.
ly believe, that a unity of religious sentimenu,
and moral precepts, was maintained in all the an-
cient mysteries; and that the initiated entertained
justnotiona of the unityof God, while the vulgar
were addicted to the grossest Polytheism. Upon
this gratuitous supposition. which we completely
disavow, becaus~ it has no connection with our
hypothesis, does Barruel found all his declama.
tiona, against the connection of our order with
the Pythagorean and Eleusinian institutions. If
this supposition, indeed, were true, his opinion
would be capable of proof. But he is all the
while combating the dogmas of Warburton,
while he thinks he is overturning the antiquity
of our order. There is, perhaps, in no language,
such a piece of downright sophistry as this por.
tion of Barruel'swork. He seems to scruple at no
method, however base or dishonourable, that can
bring discredit upon Free Masonry, and every
thing connected with it. After having overturned
the opinion of Warburton; he then attacks 1.18 em.
om ground, and stiles us the c'6ildren of sophis-
try, deism, and pantheism, who deduce ourorigin
.from associations of ,men that were enemies to
Christianity•, and followed no guide but the
light of natute. But this writer should recol-
lect, that the son is not accountable for the de-
genemcy .
• V1d. Barrutl, v. 2. p. 351• ldo not find in any ays-
~of. cbrpnoloi)o, that Cbristianjty existed in w time o£
PJlhagoras, or at the establishmentof the Eleusinian mysteries !
. . . G
Digitized by Google
so fHE HISTOaY OF
generacy of his parents; and, if the ancient mys-
teries were the nurseries of such dangerous opini·
ons, as this writer, in opposition to authentic his-
tory, lays to their charge, it is to the glory of
their posterity, that they ha\·e shaken off the
yoke, and embraced that heavenly light which
their ancestors affected to despise.
IT is unfortunate for Free Masonry, that it
should have to encounter such objections as
these, stated by a writer, like Barruel, qualified
to adorn fiction in the most alluring attire, and
impart to sophistry the .semblance of demon-
stration. Many careless readers have been mis-
led by the elegance and animation of his dic-
tion ; many religious men have been deceived
by his affectation of piety and benevolence ; and
all have been imposed upon, by the intrusion
ef numer~us, and, apparently, wilful fabrica,.
tions. But, though the name of Jesus sounds
mnery period ; though a regard for individu-
al happiness, add public tra.Dquillity, are belcl
forth as the objects of his laboun; yet that cha.-
rity and forbearance, wbicb. distinguish the Chris-
tian character, are never exemplified in the work
of Barruel; and the hypocrisy of his pretensions
are often betrayed by the fury of hie 7.eal. The ,
tattered veil, behind which he attempts to cloak
his inclinations, often discloses to the reader, the
motives of the man, and the wishes of his party.
The intolerant spirit of a Romish priest burst~
·forth
Digitized by Coogle
---
forth in every sentence, and brands with infamy
every order ·of men, whom he supposes to
have favoured that fatal revolution, which de-
molislaed the religious establishment of France;
and forced a catholic to fly, for refuge, to our
hospitable isle*.
HA.VING finished what may properly be deno-
minated the·ancient history of Free Masonry,
we are now to trace its progress from the aboli-
tion of the heathen rites, in the reign .of The~
dosius, to the present day ; and, thOugh· the
friends and enemies of the order, seem:to coin.;
eide in opinion, upon this part of its history, the
materials are as scanty as before, and the incl.;
dents equally unconnected. In those ages of ig-
norance
• These.remark!, upon the ~emoirs of Jacobinism, may be
reckoned by some' too general and acrimonious ; especially as
Barruel hag· exculpated the Masons in England from those
enonnous crimes, with wbich be has charged their brethren
on the continent. It is. e\'ident, however, though denied by
the author, that this exaption wu intended merely as a com-
pliment to the English nation ; fQr many of his allegations
1lgainst Free ~asonry are so general, that they'necessarDy in-
volve in guilt every class of Masons, whether Briti~h or con-
tinental. The falsehood of afl these 3('CUSationS is manifest,
J\Ot only from their being unsupported by evidence, but from
the mild and geaerous conduct of the British legislatUre to
these secret societies. F~, if the govemm~t of this. country
were silly enough to believe one half of what ~arrucl has said,
it would be called upon by evtry motive, not,only to dissolve;
but to extirpate Such villanous associations. : . . ..
G~
Digitized by Google
' ) '
'
ftQJ'~e Blld disorder wh~h succeeded the des-
tlllction of the Roman empire ; the minds of
men Wefe too debase<! by sup~rstition, and con-
tr~· by bigotry, to enter into associationa for
p:-Qll\Qtin~ mental improvement, and mutual
benevolence. The spirit which then raged, was
not a spiri~ of enquiry. The motives which then
inftuenced the conduct of men, were not those
benevolent ~md correct principles of action
which once· distinguished their ancestors, and
which still distinguish their posterity. Seques- .
tered habits, and unsocial dispositions charac-
terized the inhabitants of Europe, in this season
qf mental degeneracy; while Free Masons, ac..
tuated by very different principles, in.c:ulcate on
their brethren the duties of social intercourse,
and communicate to all within the pale of their
order, the knowledge which they possess anq
the happiness which they feel. )Jut, if science
'had existed in these ages, and ·if a dr;sire of
social interco~ had animated the ~nds of
men, the latter must have languished ·for w;lnt
of gratification, as long as the former was im.,.
prisoned with~n the walls of a convent, by the
tyranny of superstition, Qr the jealousy of power.
Science was in these days synonimouswith heresy;
and had ~y l>old and enlightened man ventured
on philQ&ophical investigations, and published bia
discoveries·to the world, be would, have been re..,
garded as a
.magician by the vulgar, apd punished
JS a heretic, by the church of Rome. These re-:
:JOar~s
Digitized by"'Google
FllEE MASONRY. 53
marks may be exemplified and confirmed by an
appropriate instance of~he interfering spirit ofthe
Romish church, even in the sixteenth century,
when learning bad made considerable advance-
ment in Europe. The celebrated Baptista Porta
having, like the sage of Samos, travelled into
distant countries for scientific information, re-
turned to his native home, and established a so..
ciety which he denominated the academy of se-
crets. He communicated the information which
he had collected to the members of this associa,..
tion, who, in their turn, imparted to their com.;
panions, the knowledge which they had indiVi-
dually obtained. But this little fraternity, ad.
vancing in respectability and science, soon trem-
bled under.the rod of ecclesiastical ·oppreSsion ;
and experienced in its dissolution, that the llo-
Jilish hierarchy was determined to check the ar-
dour of inv~tigation, and retain the human
mind in its former fetters of ignorance and su-
perstition. How then could Free Masonry flou-
rish, when t~ minds of men bad such an unfor-
tunate propensity to monkish retirement ; and
when every scientific and secret association was
overawed~ pe~uted by the rulers of Eu-
rope~
BUT, though the political" and intellectual con- I
tiition of society was unfa'Vourable to the pro-
gress of Free Masonry; and, though the secret
flsso~iations of the ancient$ were diiSOlved in
tn~ •
Digitized by Google
54 THE HISTORY OF
the fifth century, by the command of the Ro-
man Emperor, yet there are many reasons for
believing that ·the ancient mysteries were obser-
ved in private, long after their public .abolition,
by those enemies of Christianity who were· still
attached to the religion of their fathers. Some
authors • even inform us, that this was ac-
tually the case, and that the Grecian rites exist-
ed in the eighth century, and were never com.
'pletely abolishedf. These considerations enable
us to connect the heathen mysteries,· with that
trading association of architects, which appear-
ed, during the dark ages, under ~e special au-
thorit~ of the See of Rome.
. THE insatiable desire for external finery, and
gaudy ceremonies,which was displayed by the ca-:
tholic priests in the exercise oftheir religion, intro.;.,:
duced a corresponding desire for splendid monas-
terie~, and magnificent cathedrals. But as the de-
mand for these buildings was urgent, and contin~
ally increasing; it was with great dittitulty that ar...
tificers could be procured, even far the erection
of such pious works. In order to encourage the
profession of ~rchit:e<:ture, the bishops of Rome,
and the other potentates of Europe, conferred on
the fraternity of Free Masons, the most impor-
tant.privileges; and allowed them to be goTemed
by laws, C\Sstoms, an<l c~remonies, peculiar to
,themselves.
• Gibbon, 8vo. v. S• p. ue.
t Psellus, nac• ~,...,., ;..,.).tcnr., ;, Ill~"'· Vid. Anthologi•
Hibernica, for JanUU7 1794· P• 36. and pp. :z:z, 23, ~~r·p.
FREE MASO!mY. 55
themselve& The association was composed of
men of all nations, of Italian, Greek,French, Ger-
man, and Flemish artists, who .were·denominat-
ed Free Masons, and who, ranging from one coun-
try to another, erected those elegant churches
and cathedrals, which, though they once gratifi-
ed the .pride, and sheltered the lites of a cor-
rupted priesthood, now excite the notice of anti-
quarians, and administer.ro the grandeur of king..
doms. The government of this association was
remarkably regular. Its members livecl in a camp
of huts, reared beside the building in which they 1
were employed. A surveyor, or master, pre-
sided over, and directed the whole. Every
tenth man was called a warden, and overlooked
those who were under his cbai-ge; and such arti-
ficers as were not members of this fraternity,
were prohibited from engaging in those build..
ings which Free Masons alone had a title tiJ
rear*. It may seem strange, and, perhaps, in-
consistent with what we have already said,
that the fraternity of Free Masons should have
been sanctioned, and even protected by the bi-
shops of Rome. Secret associations, indeed, are
always a terror to temporal and spiritual tyran..
ny. But the church of Rome, instead of ap-
proving of the principles of Free Masonry, by
the encouragement and patronage which they
gave
• Wren's Par~tatia, or a History of the Family of Wren,
p. 3o6, 307. Henry.'s History of Great Britain, Svo. v. 8. p.
273· b. iv. chap. S• Sx.ftobison'• Proofs of a ConspiracJ, P• 21.
Digitized by Google
/
TID IUSTOllY OF
.gave to arcbitectJ, Clllly employed them as instru.
ments for gratifying their vanity, aDd satiating
their ambition. For io. after~ when Masons
were more numerous, and when the demand fOr ·
religious structures was less urgent than before,
the bishops of Rome deprived the fraternity of
those very privileges wbich bad beenconferred up.
on them without solicitati~ and penecuted,with
unrelenting rage, the very men whom they bad
voluntarily taken into favour, and who had con..
tributed to tbe grandeur of their ecclesiastical
establishment.
WHER.EVD. the catholic religion was taught,
the meetings ofFree Masons were sa.Dctioned and
patroni7.ed. The principles o£ the order were
even imported into Scotland*, where they con~
nue~ for many ages, in their primitive simplicity,
longafter they had been extinguHhedin the conti.
nental kingdoms. lnthis manner,Scotland became
the centre from ~hich these principles again is-
sued, to illuminate, not only the nations on the
continent, but every civilizod portion o£ tht
habitable world. What those causes were which
cootio.ued the societies of Free Masons longer in
Britain than in other countries, it may not, per-
baps, be easy to determine ; but as the fact it-
-.elf is unquestionably true, it must have arisen,
.. ·· either
• A. D. 1140· Vld.Sta~Ac:cOUlltof Scetlrmd, YOl. xi.-
Puish-o£ Kilwiu.n:iDg;.ar Edmburgb:Ma«-e £o~ AprilxSo~
,. 243•,
_
_Digitized by Google
FR.EE MASONR.Y. ' 57
either from some favourable circumstance in the
political state of Britain, which' did not exist in
the other governments of Europe; or from the
superior policy, by which the British Masons
.eluded the suspicion of their enemies, and ·the
superior prudence with which they maintained
the primitive simplicity, and respectability of
their order. ,The former of these causes, had,
without doubt, a considerable share, in produ-
cing the effect under consideration; and we know
fur certain, that, in our own days, the latter has
preserved Free Masonry in a flourishing condi-
tion throughout these united kingdoms, while, in
other countries, the imprudence and foolish in-
novations of its members, have exposed it to the
severest and justest censure, and~ in many cases.
to the mest violent persecutions. It is a fact,
requiring no .confirmation, and resulting from the
most obvious causes, that Free Masonry never
flourishes in seasons of public commotion ; and
even in Great Britain, though the seat of war is
commonly in foreign countries, it has universal.
ly declined. But in those lands, which are the
theatre of hostilities it will be neglected in a
still greater degree; and, if these hostilities are
long continued, or frequently recur, the very
name and principles of the order must be soon
extinguished. Amid those continual wars, there.
fore, which, during the middle ages, distracted
and desolated .the continent of Europe, the as.-
sociation of architects would be soon dissolved ;
H while
~- _,.
- . o;9,tize~Gooole
.. _ 0
ss THE HISTORY OF
while, in the humble village of Kilwinning, on
the western coast of Scotland, they found a safe
retreat from the violent convulsions of continen-
tal wars.
BEFORE we detail the progress of Free Mason-
ry, after its importation into Britai,n, it will be
necessary to give some account of the Knights
Templars, a fraternity of Free Masons whose af-
fluence and virtues often raised the envy of con-
temporaries, and whose unmeri~ed and unhappy
end must have often excited the compassion of
posterity. It would be needless labour to enter
into any investigation, in order to prove, that
the-order of the Knights Templars was a branch
of Free Masonry. This fact has been invariably
acknowledged by Free Masons themse\ves ; and
none have been more zealous to establish it than
the enemies of their order*. The former have
admitted the fact, not because it was creditable to
them, but because it was true; and the latter
have supported it, because by the aid of a little
sophistry, it might be employed to disgrace their
opponents.
• Vid. Barruel's Memoirs ofJacobinism, vol. 2. p. 379-383.
wl1ere this is attempted at some length. As Barruel, how-
ever, was una-cquainted with the observances of the Templars
:rnd MasOI'Is, he has attributed to both many absurd rites
which probably never existed but in his cnvn mind. For the
same reason, he has omitted many points of resemblance which
would have established the common opinion upon an immove-
able foundation.
_..J
FREE MASO!orn.Y• . 59
·· -THE order of the Knights Templars was insti-
tut.ed during the crusades, in the year I I I 8, by
Hugo de Paganis, and Geoffrey of St Omers.
It received this appellation because its members
originally resided near the church in Jerusalem,
which was dedicated to our Saviour. Though the
professed· object of this religious association was
to protect those Christian pilgrims, whose mis-
taken pibty had led them to the Holy City ;
yet it is almost beyond a doubt, that its chief and
primary intention, was to practise and preserve
the rites and mysteries of Masonry. Vve know -
at least, that the .Knights Templars, not only
possessed the mysteries, but performed the cere-
monies, and inculcated the duties of Free Ma-
sons ; and it ·is equally certain, that the prac-
tising of these rites could contribute nothing to
the protection and·comfort of the Catholic ·pil-
grims. Had the Templars publicly avowed the
real object of their institution, instead of that fa-
vour which they so long enjoyed, they · would
have experienced the animosity of tbe church of
Rome. But as they were animated with a sin-
cere regard for the Catholic religion, and with a
decided abhorrence for the infidel possessors of
Judea, it was never once suspected that they
transaeted any other business at their secret
meetings; but that which concerned the regula-
tion of their order, the advancement of religi-
on, and the extirpation of its enell).ies. The
many prodigies of valour which they exhibited
H z against
Digitized by Goog!e
-·------ ~~- ----- - ~.....---------·-~-~ -- --~-
oo THE HISTOllY OF
against the infidels; the many charitable deed9
which they performed towards the distressed pil-
grims; and the many virtues which adorned their
private character, procured them, from the rulers
of Europe, that respect and authority to which
they were so justly entitled, a.Ild which they so
long maintained. But respect and authority
were not the only rewards, which they purcha-
sed by their virtues and military prowess. From
the munificence of the Popes, the generosity of
the pious princes and nobles of Europe, and
from the gratitude of those opulent pilgrims,
who, in the moments of distress, had experien...
ced their kind assistance, the Knights Templars
had acquired such immense possessions in every
kingdom of Europe, but particularly in France,
that their revenues often exceeded those of the
secular princes. Thus independent in their cir..,
cumstances, and being fatigued with those \UlSUC..,
cessful struggles against the infidels, which they
had maintained with such manly courage, they
returned to their native land to enjoy, in· peace
and q~iet, the recompense of their,toils. But,
like all men who are suddenly transported from
danger and fatigue, to opulence and ease, many
of the Templars d~viated from that virtuous
course, which they had hitherto pursued, and
indulged too freely in those luxuries and fashion-
able amusements to which they were invited by
opulence,· and impelled by inactivity. Thus,
. from the indiscretions of a "few, did the Knights
. Templ~rs
___
__~- -=--- -----.~--..___,______.
...
oi=-
g,,iz~d ~~-G
-
o...
o
....
g
_I_
e_____
~----- - ---.--- + • ~ - - - - - -
FREE MASONR.Y.
Templars lose a considerable share of those ho-
nours, and that celebrity which they had long.
enjoyed. But this relaxation of discipline, and
attachment to luxuriQUS indolence, were the on..
, ly crimes of which the Templars were guilty;
and to men of honour and spirit lil:e them, the
forfeiture of popularity which was the conse-
quence of their apostacy, would be a sufficien~
punishment. This, however, was not the senti-
ment of Philip the Fair. That barbarous mo..
narcb, instigated by private revenge against some
individuals of the order; encouraged by the pros-
pectof sharing in their ample revenues; and spur.
red on by·a spint which selcloro resioes in a hu-
man btea$t, imprisoned in one day all the T~mp­
lars in Franee, merely at the instance 9f two
worthless members of the order, who had. been
disgraced and punished by their superiors._ fot ·
the enonnity .of their crimes. It was pretendeq
by these base accus~, that the Templars abju:-
red our Saviour, that they spit upon his cross,
tha.t they burned their children, and committe4
other atrocious crimes, from which the human
mind recoils with hoiTor, and which could hav~
been perpetrated only by men so completely
abandoned ·as the informers themselves. Un-
der the pretence of discovering what degree of
credit might be attached to these accusations; the
Templars were extended on the rack till they con-
fessed the crimes with which they were charged.
Several of the Knights, when stretched on this
iqstrument of agony, made every acknowledge-
men~
......._ _
_ --~-'tized bv Google
•
62 THE HISTORY OF
ment which their persecutors desired. But'
others, retaining on the rack that fortitude
and contempt of death which they had exhi-
bited on the. field, persisted in denying the
crimes laid to their charge, and maintained with
their latest breath, the innocence of their or-
der. Many of those, even, who bad ·tamely sab-
mitted to their persecutors, retracted those igno-
miniotts confessions which the rack had extort-
ed; and maintained their integrity in the midst
of those flames which the barbarous Philip had
kindled for their destruction. Fifty-nine of these
unhappy men were burnt alive at Paris, by a
slow fire ; and the same vindictive and inhuman
spirit was exhibited in the other provinces of
France, and in the other nations of Europe. The
fortitude which, in every country, was displayed·
by these unfortunate sufferers, could have beeu
inspired by innocence alone; and is a strol\g
proof, that their minds were not so enervated by
indolence, nor their bodies so enfeebled by lux-
ury as has been generally believed. The only
murmurs which parted from their lips, were those
which expressed their anguish and remorse, that
they had betrayed,in the hour ofpain,the·interests
of their order, and had confessed themselves guilty
of crimea, unworthy of a Templar and a man.
BUT the atrocious scene was yet to come which
was to complete the ruin of the Templars, and
satiate the vengeance of their enemie~. Their
Grand Master Molay, and other dignitaries of the
· order
Digitized by Google
FllEE MASONRY.
order still survived: And, though they had made .
the most submissive acknowledgements to their
unrelenting persecutors, yet the influence which
they had over the minds of the vulgar, and their
connec~ion with many of the Princes of Europe,
rendered them formidable and dangerous to their
oppressors. By the exertionof that influence,they
might restore union to their dismembered party,
and inspire them with courage to revenge the
murder of. their companions; or, by adopting a
more cautious method, they might repel, by un-
controvertible proofs, the charges for which they
suffered; and, by interesting all men in their be-
half, they might expose Philip to the attacks of his
own subjects, and to the hatred and contempt of
Europe. Aware of the dangers to which his cha.
racter and person would be exposed by pardon.
ingthe surviving Templars, the French Monarch
commanded the Grand- Master and his brethren
to be led out to a scaffold, erected for the purpose,
· and there to confess before the public, the enor-
mities ofwhich their order had been guilty, and
the justice of the punishment which had been in-
flicted on their brethren. If they adhered to their
former confe$sions, a full pardon was promised to
them; but .if they should persist in maintaining
.their innocence, they :were threatened with des-
truction on a pile of wood, which the executioners
had erec.ted iri t)leir view, to awe them into com-
pliance. While the multitude were standing a-
round in awful expectation, ready, from the words
· · · of
Digitized by Goo le
. - - -.v
1'HE HISTORY OF
of the prisoners, to j~ify or condemn their
King, the venerable Molay, with a claeerful and
undauntecl countenance, advanced, in chains, to
the etlge of the scaifold; and, with a ·firm and
impressi~ tone, thus addressed the spectators.
• It it but just, that in this terrible day, and in
" the last moments of my life, 1 lay open the
· " iniquity of falsehood, and make truth to tri-
" umph. I declare then, in the face of heaven
" and earth, and I confess, though to my eternal
" shame and confusion, that I have committed the
" greatest -of crimes; but it has been only in ac-
" knowledgingtho!le tbat have been charged with
" 50 much virulence upon an oroer, which truth
" obliges me to pronounce innocent. I made the
" first declaration ~ey required a( me, only to
" suspend the excessive tortures of the rack, and
" mollify those that made me endure them. I
" am sensible what torments they prepare for
" those that have courage to revoke such a con-
" fession. But the horrible sight which they
" present to my eyes, is not capable of making
" me confirm one lie by another. On a condition
" so infamous as that, I freely renounce life
" which is already but too odious to me. For
~' what would it avail me to prolong a few mise~­
" able days, when I must owe them only to the
" blackest of calumnies*." In consequence of
this manly revocation, the Grand Master and his
com.,.
• Histoire de Chevaliers Hospitaliers de Saint Jean dr Jeru-
$alem, par Abbe Vertot, tom. ii, p p. 101. 102.
---·
. FREE MASONRY.
companions were hurried into the flames, where
they retained that contempt of death which they
had exhibited on former occasions. This mourn.
ful scene extorted tears from the lowest of the
vulgar. Four valiant knights, whose charity and
valour had procured them the gratitude and ap-
plause of mankind, suffering, without fear, the
most cruel and ignominious death, was, indeed,
a spectacle well c~lculated to excite emotions
of pity in the hardest hearts;· and, whatever
opinion we may entertain concerning the cha.
racter of that unhappy order, every mind of
sensibility will compassionate the fate of the
Templars, and curse the inhuman policy of Phi·
lip the Fair.
FRoM this short and imperfect account of the
origin and ruin of the Knights Templars, the
reader will be enabled to understand the merits
of the question, respecting the innocence of that
order, which it will be necessary here to con-
sider. The opinions of contemporary writers were
too much influenced by party spirit, and religi-
ous zeal, to deserve any regard in this investiga-
tion. All those writers•, however, who are go-
nerally deemed impartial historians, and who
were in no respects interested, either in the con.
demnatioll
• Among these we may reckon Hume, History o£ England,
v. 2. p. 373· Henry, History of Britain, T. 8. P• 43· uul
Vertot, 11t supra.
I
Digitized by Coogle
----.
66 THE HISTORY OF
demnation or acquittal ..of the Templars, have,
without hesitation, pronounced them innocent of
the crimes laid to their charge, and imputed their
destruction to the avarice and private resentment
of Philip. In the decision of these historia.ns~ the
public had, in general, acquiesced, till their sen-
timents were un~ettled by the bold pretensions,
and the .sophistical reasoning of Barruel. This
writer has charged upon the Templars all those
crimeswithwhich their enemies had formerly load-
ed them: He has attempted to justify the severi-
ty of the French King, and has reproached, wit~
the bitterest invective, the Society of Free Ma-
sons, because they were once connected with a
~temity, which, in his opinion, was so wick-
ed and profane. While we endeavour, therefore,
to defend the Templars against these recent ca-
l~es, we will, at the same .time, be maintain-
ing the respectability of our own order, by vindi-
cating its members from that imputed depravity,
which, according to Barruel, they have inherited
from their fathers.
. IN order to form an -impartial judgment res-
pecting any sentence whi.ch has been passed,
without proper evidence, either against indivi-
duals or associations, it is necessary to be- ac-
quainted with the motives and character of the
accusers, and with the benefits which might ac-
crue to them and the judges, by the punishment
or liberatio~ of the accused. In the 'ase before
us,
.....-=--::--.----.-------
"-..
.~<!.tl¥
h Google ··
liP - -.- - ·- ·
- ....
FREE MASONRY. - 67
us, the accusers ·had been disgraced and impri-
soned by the accused, for their. ·villany and
crimes. Their chief prosecutor and judge was
actuated by motives of avarice ·and private re-
sentment ; and many rival orders who had been
languishing it1 obscurity and indigence. propa-
gated with assiduitythe slanderous tale, in hopes of
sharing in those ample·possessions, and that pub-
lic favour, which had been acqnired:by the supe-
rior abilities of the Knights Templars. · To all
ranks of men, indeed, the veneration which the
name of a Templar inspired, was an object of en-
vy: Theiropulent revenueswere calculated to give
trouble to a covetous mind, and the remarkable
regularity of their conduct was no small incite-
ment to the exercise of detraction. Such were
the motives and prospects of their judges and ac-
cusers. Let us attend now to the accusations
which were brought against them, and we will
find that these could ·scarcely come under the
cognizance of law, as their pretended crimes
were committed against themselves, and not
against society. Did.· they perpetrate . murder
upon any of their..fullow-eitiz.ens ?...;..This was
never laid to their charge. Did they purloin any
man's treasures?-Oftheft they were never accus-
ed. Did they instigate to rebellion the subjects of
any government, or plot destruction against the
person ofanyking?-Under such a character they
were never known,till Barrnetcalled them traitors
and regicides; because, forsooth, it was his opinion~
I 2 that
Digitized by Coogle
- - ~- - ·
68 THZ HISTO&Y OF
that their sueeessors, the Free Masons in France,
were accessory to the murder of their King.
What thenwere their crimes? It was said,thatthey
butned their own infants ! And yet an instance
was never produced, in which the child of a
Templar had disappeared, and in which the ten.
demess of a mother, as would certainly have
happened, remonstrated against the murder of
her child. They were said to have committed
upon· one another the most unnatural of all
crimes ! And yet, no individual produced a
specific instance which he could corroborate by
indubitable proof. They were accused of insult.
ing the Cross of Christ ; and yet they had shed
their blood in the defence of his religion. Of
crimes like these, one may conceive a deprave:d
individual to have been guilty ; but to believe,
that. a respectabltt fraternity, consisting of thou-
sands of members, could be capable of such enor..
mities, requires a degree of faith to which the
most credulous will scarcely attain.
THE innocence of the Templars, and the in-
justi~e of Philip, will be still more ap~rent, by
considering the conduct of the latter, as related:
even by Barruel, l'his writer ebserves, •• That
•' two men, who had been imprisoned for their
" crimes, declared that they had some important
·•• discoveries to make concerning the Knights
" Templars, and that this declaration, though
•• ~title4 to little credi~, made the king deter-
" mine
5
FllEE 1\USORT. ·
. •• mine on the dissolution of the order, and u ..
" rest on one day all the Templars in his king•
" dom *·" Here then was the most flagrant in...
justice in the very threshold of the whole affair.
Without summoning a singlewitness; without ex..
amining a single Templar; without consulting a
single friend ; without even knowing what the
important discoveries were which the crimiuah
had to make ; the French King determined oa
the destruction of the Templars, on the destruc-
tion of an order whose Grand Master had been
his particular friend, and even the god-father of
one of his childrent. This latter circumstance,
indeed, is brought forward Qy Barruel, to justify
the conduct of Philip, because he sacrificed the
cduties of friendship to the principles of justice;
But, when we take it in connection with the rat
of his conduct, it must inrpire every honest mincl
with a more degrading opinion of the head and
heart. of that persecuting monarch.
SuCH being the premature ·and precipitabt de-
termination of Philip, we may cons1cder the or"
der of the Templars as at that time dissolved,
and regard all those examinations, enctuiries, con-
fessions, trials, and council• which succeeded) u
mere phantoms of justice, conjured up by that
crafty prince, to da7:z.1e tbe eyet of his subjec:tt,
and sanctify the depravity of bit own conduct.
By \eeping dlis circumstance in view, the inttlli..
• Memoirs of Jacobinism, v. 2. p. 36~
t Id, ld. P• 366.
~ - -- ----.,_. . .---.::
..
gent
Digitized by Google
THE .BISTOR.Y OF.
gent: reader will be.enabled to ·understand the
minute, thPugh sometimes contradictory, details
of.historians, respecting the trial and confessions
.of the Knights Templars; and,. notwithstanding
the veil. of justice with which the Judges at-
tempted to cover their proceedings, he will be en-
abled.to develope the detestable principles upon
which their trial was conducted, and the still
more detestable motives which invited Clement
V. to partake in the guilt of Philip the Fair.
THE .most formidable, and. indeed the only
plausible argument .by which Barruel supports
his opinions, is drawn from the confessions of the
Templars. . He maintains that the avowals of the
Knights were free from compulsion, and that no
set of men could be so base as to accuse .their
brethren of crimes, of which they believed them
to be entirely innoc..-ent. But the fallacy of his
reasoning will appear from the slightest. reflec-
tion. It is a curious, though unquestionable
fact, that, when an avowal must be made, men
are more ready to accuse themselves of crimes of
,rhich they have never been guilty, than to con-
fess •those which they have actually commit-
ted. · Such as have attended to the operation of
their own minds, particularly in the earlier part
of life, will acquiesce in this extraordinary truth;
;ptd those who have not had occasion to observe
it, will find, upon consideration, that it is conso-
nant to the constitution of the human mind.
When
•
oi9,tizect by Google
A3C w #
FREE MASOmY;.
When a man confesses himself guilty of a crime
which he has' really perpetrated, he is exposed,
not only to the reproaches of his own conscience,
but to those of the world; and; should he, at.
any time, retract his confessions, he must be
aware that every subsequent enquiry would only
confirm the truth of his first deposition. But
when a man, from a principle of fear, acknow.
ledges the truth of accusations with which he h~
been unjustly loaded, a sense of his integrity ancl
innocence supports him under the opprobrium of
the world, and he is conscious that his .chru;ac-
ter will be vindicated by every investigation,
and that .the confessions which he himself made,
may at any time be proved to have been the off-:
spring of necessity. Such undoubtedly were
the feelings by which the Templars were actu-
ated. Convinced, that the crimes which they were
desired to acknowledge, were of such an unna-
tural kind, that they could ·never be imputec!,
by any reasonable man, to a numerous and
hitherto respectable fraternity, .they ·yielded. to
the solicitations of their persecutors ; with the
well-grounded hope that future enquiry would
remove the stain which the irresistible desire of
self-preservation. had prompted them to throw
upon their character. From this very- conside-
ration, indeed, namely, from the nature of the
crimes charged upon the Templars, have many
eminent historians maintained the innocence of
that unhappy order. But, were we . even to
allow
Digitized by Coogle
THE HISTOilY CF
allow with Barruel, in opposition to all histo-
ry, that the avowals of the Knight's were free
and numerous ; by an application of the princi-
ples already laid down, we would, from that
circumstance, prove the innocence, and not the
guilt of the Templars.
IT is not, however, upon speculative principles
alone, that we can account for the confessions
and subsequent recantations of the Knights.
There are, fortUDately, some historical facts which
furnish a rational explanation of their conduct ;
\tit whieh Barruel, either from ignorance or de-
sign, has totally overlooked. About the com-
mencement of the whole affair, Molay, the Grand
Master of the order, had been examined at Pa-
ris. From the cttuses which we have already ex-
plained, but, particularly, from a dread of those
torments, to which an obstinate avowal of his
imtocence would expose him, he made every con-
fession which his persecutors demanded ; but he,
at the same time, transmitted circular letters to
an immense number of his brethren, requesting
them to make the same confessionswith himself*;
for it was only by submissive conduct, that they
could hope to disarm the fury. of their enemies,
and avert the blow which was threatened to their
crder. Agreeably to the request of Molay, many
of
• Histoire de Chevaliers Hospitalierg, par Abbe Vcrtot,
tom. ii. p. 86.
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
oigitizedbyGoogle J
- - ~ _,
~
FREE MASONRY. 73
' .
of the Templars made the same acknowledge-
ments; while gthers, whose morality was more
inflexible, and whose couragewas more undaunt•
ed, disdained to do evll, that good might come,
· and persevered unto death in the avowal of their.
own innocence, and that of their order. Molay.
however, alfd those knights who had followed
his example, soon perceived, that though their
submissions had protected thetn from injury as
individuals, they had, nevertheless, rather in"'
flamed the rage of Philip against the order; and,
being now convinced, that their acknowledge-
ments of guilt had produced an effect opposite
to what they expected, they boldly retracted
their former avowals, and adopted that intrepid
conduct of which we have already given a short
account. There is another circumstance con...
nected with this part of our subject, whi£h.
though not taken notice·of by historians, is well
de~rving of the readers attention. It is asserted
by all contemporary writers, whether the friends
or adversaries of the Templars, that all those
knights who maintained their innocence, were
condemned either to death, or to a punishment
equallr severe; while .all who confessed,· and
adhered to their confessions, were either com.
pletely acquitted, or sentenced to a few days
fasting and prayer, or a short imprisonment*.
It
• Some otthem even rec:eived ptnsi6nafor their ccmleuions.
See Vertot, tom. ii. p. 91.
K
'I·
...~
____ . Qjp.!'<.Rd by Google
~-- _.L______
.__
:_.., ___....._
.
74 THE HISTORY OF
It is allowed also by these historians, and even by
B~el, that a very considerable number of the
Templars were altogether ignorant of the crimes
perpetrated by the rest, and that some who were
privy to them, were not partakers in their guilt.
In which class, then, are we to rank these inno-
cent men? Among those who suffered, or among
those who were saved? If among the former,
their enemies were guilty of the most ftagrant in-
justice and cruelty, in ~onsuming the innocent
on the same pile with the guilty. If among the
latter, they must have been compelled to con-
fess themselves guilty of ,crimes of which they
were completely innocent.
1N order to show that the confessions of the
Templars were voluntary, and not extorted by
the rack, Barruel is obliged to deny facts which
are admitted by every historian. But, lest his
readers should not be so sceptical on that point
as himself, he takes care to inform ~hem, that
the bishops declared, that all whose confessions
were extorted by the rack, should be regarded as
innocent, and that no Templar should be subject
to it; that Clement V. rather favoured the Tem-
...
plars, and that he sent the most l1enerab!e per-
sons to interrogate those, whose age and iRfirmi-
ties prevented them from appearing before him.
But who, pray, were those aged and infirm Tern..
plars to whom Clement is so compassionate ?
Were they men who were st:Darting under dis-
eases
.... >i zM -~lilt.---· ......
..
FREE MASONRY. 15
eases inflicted by the hand of heaven? -
Were they
men whose aged limbs were unfit for the fatigues
of-a journey, or whose gray hairs·had e~cited the
pity of the Roman.Pontiff? No-they were a few
undaunted knights whom the blood-extorting
screws of their tormentors had tortured and dis.
abled; whose fiesh had been lacerated on the rack,
and whose bones had been disjointed, or broken on
the wheel. These are the men, who, in the
language of the above writer, were prevented by
their ag~ and infinnitie.s from travelling to Poic-
tiers, or who, in the more simple stile of the
Pope himself, were unable to ride on horseback,
or to bear any other method of comJeyance whatso.
ever. Such was that mildness of Clement which
Bamrel applauds! And such too, we may add, the
integrity of Barruel !
HAVING thus endeavoured to vindicate the cha.
racter of our ancestors from the accusations of
their enemies, it will be necessary to make a few
remarks respectillg the ceremonial observances
which are attributed to them and their posterity,
by the author of the, memoirs of Jacobinism.
But this, our enemies well know, is forbidden
ground, on which Free Masons are prohibited to
enter by the laws of their order, It js here. con..
sequently, that the most numerous, and appa-
rently the most successful attacks have been
made, for we can be proy:ided v.ith no means of
defence without laying open the mysteries of the
K z fraternity.
..... Digitized by Google
------- J,. -- -
THE HISTORY OF
fraternity. Conscious of the disadvantages un~
der which Free Masons labour, their adversa~
ries have fabricated the most frightful and fool-
ish ceremo~es, and imposed tqem upon the world
as the ceremonies of Masonry. Among this num-
ber, may be reckoned those rites and o;1ths which
Barruel ascribes to the Templars and their poste~
rity, but which, we solemnly aver, have no c~>n­
nection either with the one or the other ; and,
were we permitted to divulge tp the world the
whole cf our ritual system, many who have dup-:
ed the public by deceitful information, would
stand abashed at their conduct, while others,
who have confided in such information, would
be astonished at the extent of their credulity.
Then might FreeMasons defy, as they have done
in every other point, the fabrications of ~he ma~
licious, and the conjectures of the ignorant :
Then, too, might they mock at the ingenuity of
the wise. But, as they are bound to preserve
from public view the rites of their order, it is
highly disingenuous to assail them in a quarter
.where resistance is impossible, and where every
unprincipled man may triumph with impunity.
Is not this to assassinate an enemy with his hands
tied behind his back? Is not this to reproach a foe
who is deprived of the organs of utterance ?
BuT there is another important consideration,
which, while it points out in a more striking
manner the disingenuity of such conduct, should,
~t the same time, incite the candid enquirer to
reject •
~.... ·'· ...._.._'_-'_ ...................._
Dig
oil
! lil
ze.db
•ylli
c:
lil'O
,_
._
ogle__..~
- . 7 · · - ........ . t. - ••
- --- ~- ~ -----~~
BEE MASONR.Y. 77
reject every calumny against secret associations,
arising from reports concerning their rites and
ceremonies. If ever the secrets of Free Masonry
were betrayed, they must have been betrayed by
men who were completely destitute of religious
principle ; who paid no respect to those tiea
which unite the m~mbers of civil, as well as.se-
cret associations ; who, in short, neither feared
God, nor regarded man. Suppose, then, that a
person, pretending to be a Free MasOn, offered
~o commUnicate, either ·to an individual, or to
the public, the rites and ceremonies of his order.
What degree of credit should men of probity
attach to the information which they might in
this way receive? A person addresses them un.
der the character of a perjurer, offering to via..
late the most solemn engagements, and to divulge
mysteries which have been concealed for ages.
He may give them accurate information, or he
may not. If the secrets which he offers to be......
tray, have been hitherto unknown, there is no
possible way of ascertaining the truth of his depo-
sition. And it is rather to be suspected, that he
will dupe his auditors by false information, than
trample upon an engagement, guarded by the
most awful sanctions. He might, indeed, con-
finn by an oath, the truth of his asseveration ;
but, .as he must have violated an oath equally SO·
lemn, rio man of sense will give him the smal-
lest credit. But, supposing that he really di-
~~es ~e secrets and· ceremonie~ of Free Ma-
sonry,
·- Digitized by Google
- --·--
THE m5TORY OP
sonry, it is clear that he has not understood their
trne import, or, at least, that they have made no
impression upon his mind. It is almost certain,
therefore, that, from ignorance, or misapprehen-
sion of their meaning, he will exhibit, under an
aspect calculated to excite ridicule, those rites
and ceremonies, whic~ if properly explained,
wculd command admiration. If then it be so
flilicult for the uninitiated to discover the secrets
of Free Masonry, and still more so to ascertain
their signification, if they should discover them,
What must we ·think of those men who op-
ea their ean to every slanderous tale against
Free Masons, which unprincipled men may im-
poee upon their credulity ? What must we think
tJf those who reproach and vilify our order, up-
on the uncertain reports of cunning and inte-
rested men? We appeal to the impartial read-
er, if they are not equally base with the infonn-
ers themselves.
SucH are the considerations by which we would
attempt to repel those charges an.d distorted facts,,
with which Barruel bas calumniated the charac..
ter, and disfigured the history of the ~emplars.
They will be sufficient, we hope, to remove those
erroneous impressions which the perusal of the
· Memoirs of Jacobinism may have left upon the
reader's mind. Although we have adopted the
opinion of those who maintain the innocence of
that unfortunate order, we cannot coincide with
· them
i
I
j
-~ - -~-------~~~~··
TREE MASONRY.· 79
them in believing, that, as individuals, they were
free from blame. The Templars were possessed
of the same corrupted nature, and influenced by
the same passions as their fellow men ; aud they
were, unquestionably, exposed,to more strong and
numerous temptations. Some of the knights,
therefore, may have been guilty of crimes, and
these too of an aggravated kind, which, by a
strange, though not uncommon mistake, migm,
have been transferred to their or~. But it waa
never proved that they were traitoJ.Ts, child-mur-
derers, regicides, and infidels. A certain class of
historians, indeed, have imputed to them such ini-
quities, and, when unable to establish their as-
sertions, have fixed upon their order the more
probable crimes of drunkenness and debauchery.
But, amidst all these accusations, we hear no-
thing of that valour which first raised the Tem..
plars to pre-eminence; nothing of that charity
and beneficence whidt procured them the re..
spect of contemporaries ; nothing of that fort;...
tude and patience which most of them exhibit-
ed on the rack, and in the ilames. In their case
it has been too true, that '
The evil wbic:h men do li•es afte!- them :
The good is oft io.temd witb tJ.ir bema.
BuT, allnwing the Templars to bc .as guilty as
their enemies • ba"fe re~resented them. Upon
what principles of sound reasoning, or of com-
mon
Digitized by Google
-
· m:sa9
So THE BJSTOJlT OF
mon sense, does Barruel transfer their guilt to
the fraternity of Free Masons? Is it absolutely
necessary, that the son should inherit the bodily
diseases, and the mental debility of his fore-
fathers; or is it fair, th.at one order, proposing
to itself the same object, and instituted upon the
· same principles as another, should be charged al-
so with the same crimes? Certainly not. If vir-
tue and vice were hereditary qualities, we might
arrogate to ourselves much honour from our con-
nection with the Templars: B,ut, as we have not
been applauded for a Templar's virtues, we should
not be reproached for aTemplar's crimes. But the
reasoning of Barruelis as repugnant to the dictates
of experience, as it is to those of common sense.
Were ·not the inhabitants of England, at one
period, f~atics, rebels, and regicides? But where
now is the nation that is more liberal in its refi...
gion, and more steady in its loyalty! Did not
the French, at one time, torture, bum, and mas-
sacre their fellow citizens, from the fury of their
religious zeal, and the strength oftheir attachment
to the catholic communion? But what nation un-
der heaven is at present less influenced byreligious
principlea, and less attached to the church of
Rome! Did not the rulers of France, at one time,
torment and assassinate hundreds oftheTemplars,
because they deemed them infidels, traitors, and
regicides ? And have we .not seen, in these lattet
days, the very rulers of France themselves, in-
. fidels,
. '
Digitized by bOO I I · ...~~ I
e .• . :..........
f. a•
FREE MASONRY. 81
fidels, traitors, and regicides! But if the impartial
reader should, upon farther inquiry, give credit to
the guilt of the Templars; in order to remove the
imputed stain which has been transferred to Free
Masons, it may be.sufficient to address him in the
words of the poet,
Tempora mutantur, et nos mutamur in illis.
ABouT the time of th~ Knights Templars, chi-
valry had arrived ,at its highest perfection. It
bad its existence, indeed, prior to this period, but
as it continued to influence the minds of me~
long after the destruction of that unhappy order,
it was thought proper to defer its consideration
till the present stage.of our history. When chi-
\'alry made its first appearance~ the :moral and
political condition of Europe was ·io. every res-
pect deplorable. · The· religion of Jesus existed
only in name. · A. degrading ~perstition hltd
usurped ills place, and threatened ruin to:the rea-. ·
son and the dignity of m!Ul. ·The political rights
of the lowerorderswere sacrificed to theinterestsof
the ~eat. War was carried on with a degree of sa.
v~ge eru~lty' equalled owy by the sanguinary con-
tentions .Qf the beasts o( prey ; no clemency was
shown to the vanquished; no humanity to the
captive. The female sex, even, were sunk below
their natural level ; they were doomed to the
most laborious occupations, and were deserted
and despised ~y that very sex, on whose protec.
L tion
-- Digitized by Google
--.- -·-.,~--
THE HISTORY OF
tion and sympathy they have so natural a claim.
To remedy these disorders, a few intelligent and
pious men formed an association, whose members
swore to defend the Christian religion, to practise
its morals, tQ protect widows, orphans, and the
weaker sex; and to decide judiciallyf and not by
arms, the disputes that might arise about their
goods or effects. It was from this association,
undo"'btedly, that chivalry arose*; and not, as
some think, from th~ public investiture with
arms which was customary among the ancient
Germans. But, whatever was its origin, chivalry
produced a considerable change in the mannen
;md sentiments of the great. It could not. in-
deed, eradicate that ignorance and depravity
which engendered those awful evils that we have
already enumerated. It has softened, however, the
ferocity of war. It has restored the fair sex to that
honourable!1lnkwhichtheynow possess,andwhich
~ all times they-are e~titled to hold. It has ill'!
spired those sentiments of generosity, aympathy,
and fJiendship, which have contributed so much to
the civiliution of the world; and has introduced
that principle of honour, which, though fat from
being a laudable motive to action,often checks the
licentious, when moral and religious considera-
~ons would make no impression upon their minds!
· SucH
• Bontainvilliers on the Ancient Parliaments of France,
Letter 5, quoted in Brydson's Summary View of Heraldry,
JP• 24, 25, 26: .
---
Digitized by Google _.
___....._ ~ -- ~- ~
...--- -
,.
..
FREE MASONRY.
Sucu was the origin of chivalry, and such the
blessings which it imparted. That it was a
branch of Free Masonry, may be inferred from
a variety of considerations, from the consent of
those who have made the dec;pest researches into
the one, and who were intimately acquainted
with the spirit, rites, and ceremonies of the other.
They were both ceremonial institutions. Impor-
tant precepts were communicated to the mem-
bers of each, for the regulation of their con-
duct as men, and as brethren of the order •.
The ceremonies .of chivalry, like those of Free
Masonry, though unintelligible to the vulgar, were
always symbolical of some tmportant truths f.
The object of both institutions was the same,
and the metnbers bound themselves, by an oath,
tct promote it with ardour and zeal ~· In chi-
valry there were also different degrees of bon-
. our, through which the youths were obliged to
pass before they were invested with the dignity
of knighthoodII; and the Knights, like Free Ma-
sons, were formed into fraternities or orders, dis--
tinguished by ~erent appellations§.
FRoM these circumstances of resemblaRCe, we
do not mean to infer that chivalry was Free Ma.
sonry under another name; ~ mean only to show
that the two institutions were intimately con-
nected; that.the former. took its origin from the
latter•
• Brydson's Summary View of Heraldry, p. 31.
t Id. P· 95· t Id. P· 32· II Id. PP• 36, 37•
§ Id. pp. 38, 40.
L~
. ,.:....: .., -·. ..
~
~...J.---~ ·
. - - . ............ - ·-
- _
.. - ~ --·- -- __ ...., -~·
t'
....
THE HISTORY OF
latter, and borrowed from it, not only some of its
·ceremonial observances, but the leading features,
and the general outline of its constitution. These
points of similarity, indeed, .are in some cases so
striking,that several learnedmen haveaffirmedthat
Free Masonry was a secondary order of chivalry,
and derived its origin from the usages of that in-
stitution*. For what reasons these authors deduce
the forms of Free Masonry from the ceremonies of
chivalry, it is impossible to conjecture. The only
argument which they adduce, is the similarity'of
the institutions; but they do not consider, that this
proves,'.with equal force, that Free Masonry is
the parent of Chivalry. We have already shown
that there were many secret institutions among
the ancients, 'but particularly the Fraternity of
Dionysian architects, which resembled Free Ma-
sonry in every thing but the name ; and it re-
quires no proof that these fraternities arose many
hundred years before the existence of chivalry.
If then there be any res~mblance between the
institutions which we have been comparing, we
must consider Free Masonry as the fountain,
and chivalry only as the stream. The one was
adapted to the habits of intelligent artists, and
could flourish only in times of civilization and
peace ; the other was accom~odated to the dis-
positions of a martial age, and could exist only
1D
• Chevalier Ramsay, See Robison's Proofs of a Conspira-
cy, p. 39· Leyden's Preliminary Dissertation to the Complaynt
of Scotland, pp. 67, 71. and· the preface to the sixth edition
of Guillim's Display of Heraldry.
·- ·-~-
~.-.------ --·--...-•rrwGS&ill?••<'-/J
-i;111
;,;•
ze•
db•y•
G
-
6-og~e.:_:-..:.
FllEE MASONRY.
in seasons of ignorance and war. With these ob-
servations, indeed, the history of both fraterni-
ties entirely corresponds. In the enlightened ages
of Greece and Rome, when chivalry was un-
known, Free Masonry flourished under the sane- .
tion of government, and the patronage of intel-
ligent men. But, during the reign of Gothic
ignorance and barbarity, which follpwed the des-
truction of imperial Rome, Free Masonry lan-
guished in obscurity, while chivalry succeeded
in its place, and proposed to accomplish the same
object by different means, which, though more
rough and violent, were better suited to the man-
ners of the age. And when science and literature
revived in Europe, and scattered those clouds of
ignorance and barbarism with which she had
been overshadowed, chivalry decayed along with
the manners that gave it birth, while Free Ma-
,sonry arose with increasing splendour, and ad-
vanced with the same pace lijl civilization and re-
finement.
THE connection between chivalry and Free
Masonry, is excellently exemplified in the fra-
ternity of the Knights Templars. It is well
known that this association was an order of chi-
valry, that the Templars performed its ceremo-
nies, and were influenced by its precepts ; and
we have already shown, that the same associa-
. ~ion was initiated into the mysteries, was regu-
lated by the maxims, and practised the rites of
Free
-----
-- - .. -· -.... --- - - ..... - ·--- .
Digitized by Goo le
_____
__..._.,..,.
\.-
86 THE HISTORY OF
Free Masonry * : But, though they then existed
in a double capacity, it must be evident to all
who study the History of the Templars, that
their masonic claaracter chiefly predominated;
and that they deduced the name of their insti-
tution, and their external observances, from. the
usages of chivalry, to conceal from the Roman
PoDtiff the primary object of their order, and to
hold their secret meetings free from suspicion or
alarm. About this time, indeed, the church of
Rome sanctioned the fraternity of operative Ma-
sons, and allowed them to perform their ceremo-
nies without molestation or fear. But this cle-
mency, as we have already shown, was the off-
spring of necessityf; and the same interested
motive which prompted his Holiness to patronize
that trading association, could never influence
him to countenance the duplicity of the Tem-
plars, or pennit them to exist in their masonic
capacity. It was the discovery, indeed, of their
being Free Masons, of their assembling secretly,
and performing ceremonies to which no stranger
was admitted, that occasioned those awful calami-
ties which befel their order. It will, no doubt, ap-
pear surprising to. some readers, that such zealous
defenders of the Catholic religion should practise
the ob9Crvances of an association, which the
church of Rome has always persecuted with the
bitterest hostility. But their surprise will cease,
when
• See pages s8, 59· suprll.
t See pages 54· ss, s6. supra.
FR.IE MASONR.Y.
when they are informed, that even about the
middle of the eighteenth centnry, when Free
Masonry was prohibited in the Ecclesiastical
States, by a papal bull, the members of the Ro.-
mish chur~h adopted the same plan. They were
so attached to the priACiples and practice of the
fraternity, that they established what they cal-
led a new association, into which they professed to
admit none but zealous abettors of the papal hier-
archy. l.n this manner, by flattering the pride
of the church, they eluded its vigilance, and
preserved the spirit of Free Masonry, by merely
changing its name, and profcsmng to make it sub.
servient to the interests of the Pontificate.
BEPORE leaving this subject, it may be interest-
ing to some reade!s, and nece8sary for the satis-
faction of others, to show in what manner the
Knights Templacs became depositari~ of the
masonic mysteries. We have already seen, that
almost all the secret aSsociations of the ancients
either flOurished or originated in Syria, and the
adjacent coWltries. It was here that the Diony-
sian artists, the Essenes, and the Kasideans arose.
From this country also came several members of
that trading association ofmasons,which appeared
jnEurope during the dark ages*; and we are assur-
ed,
• Mr Clinch, who appears not to have been acquainted with
this fact, suppo~ that Free Masonry was introduced into
Europe by means of the Gypsies. Anthologia Hibemica, for
.t\pril 1'794• p. 280. '~'here was such an intimate connection
· be·
Digitized by Google
88 THE HISTORY OF
ed, that, notwithstanding the unfavourable condi-
tion of th~t province, there exists, at this day, on
Mount Libanus, one of these Syriac fraternities*.
As the order of the Templars, therefore, was origi-
nally formed in Syria, and existed there for a
considerable time, it would be no improbable
supposition that they received their masonic
knowledge from the lod~s in that quarter. But
we are fortunately in this case not left to conjec-
ture, for we are expressly informed by a foreign
authorf, who was well acquainted with the his-
tory and customs of Syria, that the . Knights
Templars were actually members of the Syriac
fraternities.
HAVING thus :compared F.ree· Masonry with
those secret as$0Ciations which arose during the
dark ages ; let us now direct our attention to its
progress in Britain, after it was extinguished in
the other kingdoms of Europe. We have already
seen that a trading fraternity of Free Masons ex-
isted in Europe during the middle ·ages ; that
many special favours were conferred upon them
by the Roman See; that they had the exclusive
privilege of erecting those m_agniticent . build-
ings, which the pride of the churdt of Rome,
and
between Asia and Europe in the time of the Crusades, that
the customs and manners of the one, must, in some mcesure,
have been transferred to the other.
• Anthologia Hibernica, April I 794, p. 279·
+ Adler de Drusi.s l\1ontis _
Libani. Rom•.x786.
Digitized by Google
- - --- -~~
FREE MASONRY. 8g
and the misguided zeal of its members, had
prompted them to rear ; and that several masons
travelled into Scotland, about t~e beginning of the
twelfth century, and imported into that country
the principles and ceremonies of their order. And
we had.illustrated several causes which preserved
this association in Britain after its toul dissolution
on the Continent*.
That Free Masonry was introduced in~o Scot.
land by those architects who built the abbey
of Kilwinning, is manifest, not only from those
authentic documents, by which the existence
of the Kilwinning lodge has been traced back
as far as the end of the fifteenth century, but
by
• Among these, another cause might have been mentioned,
which, without doubt, operated very powerfully in the pre-
lel'Vation of Free Masonry in Britain. The first lodgu in this
country were certainly composed of foreigners, who, when the
patronage of the church was withdrawn from them, were pro-
bably unable, or unwilling, to undergo the danger and expence
of returning to their homes by sea. The lodges of which they
undoubtedly were the leading members, would, on this ac-
count, prc?bably, continue in a more flourishing condition, as
the foreign members would find it their interest to coanect
themselves with the inhabitants, by the ties of a brother ma-
son, when they had no claim upon their affections as fellow
countrymen. But the case was quite different with the canti-
nentallodges, which were entirely composed of artists from
every country on the Continent; for, when the church ofRome '
had no farther occasion for their services, they would return
to their respective homes, and Free Masenry would soon de-
cay when her supportcn were dispersed, and her lodges for-
saken.
Digitized by Google
THE HISTOR.Y QF
by other collateral arguments, which amount al-
most to a demonstration. In every country where
the temporal and spiritual jurisdiction of the Pope
was acknowledged, there was a continual demand.,
particularly during the twelfth century, for re-
ligious structures, and consequently for operatiYe
masons, proportional to the piety of the inhabi-
tants, and the opulence of their ~cclesiaatical es-
tablishment; and there was no kingdom in Eu-
rope where the zeal of the inhabitanu for pope-
ry was more ardent, where the kings and nobles
were more liberal to the clergy, and where, of
consequence, the church was more richly en-
dowed, than in Scotland*. The demand, there-
fore, for elegant cathedrals and ingenioua artists.
must have been proportionably greater than in
other countries, and that demand could be sup-
plied only from the trading association on the
Continent. When we consider, in addition to
these facts, that this association monopolized the
building of religious structpres in Christendom ;
we are authorised to conclude, that those nume-
rous and elegant ruins, which still adorn the 'ril-
lages of Scotland, were erected by foreign ma-
sons, who introduced into this island the customs
of their orderf.
h
• The church possessed above one half of the property in
tbe kingdom. RoberUon'• Hiatoryof Scotland, voL 1. pp. 137,
65, 269.
t It is a curious fact, that in one of those towDs where
there is an elegant abbey, which was built in the twelfth
century, the author e£ this history has often beard that it
was
Digitized by Google
· - - -· ----- -- J
FREE MASONRY.
IT was probably about this time, also, that Free
Masonry was introduced into England; bu:t whe-
ther the English received it from the Scotch ma-
sons at Kilwinning, or from other brethren who
had arrived from the Continent, there is no me-
thod of determining. The fraternity in England,
however, maintain, that St Alban, the Proto-
Martyr, was the first who brought masonry to
Britain *; that the brethren received a charter
from King Athelstane, and that his brother Ed-
win summoned all the lodges to meet at York,
which formed the first Grand Lodge of Englandt.
But these are merelyassertions, not only incapable
,of proof from authentic history, but inconsistent,
also, with several historical events which rest up..
on undubitable evidencet. In support of these
opinions, indeed, it is alledged, that no other lodge
has laid claim to greater antiquity than that of
York,and that its jurisdiction over the oth~r lodges
in England has been invariably acknowledged by
the whole fraternity. But this arg'ij!Dent only
proves that York was the birth place of Free Ma-
sonry
was cm:ted by a company oi industrious men who spoke in a
forei&n language, and lived separately from the town's people.
And storie• are still told about their petty quarrels with the
inhabitants. .
• About tile end of the third century.
t A. D. !}26. Preston'• !~ions of Masonry, p. 148.
Smith's Ute and Abuse of Free Masonry, P• 51. Free Ma-
son's Callendar 1778.
:t See Dr Plot's Natural History of Staffordshire, chap. viii.
pp. 3161-318.
Digitized by Coogle
TilE HISTORY OF
sonryin England. It brings no additional evidence
in support of the improbable stories about St AI~
ban, Athelstane, and Edwin. If the antiquity
of Free Masonry in Britain can be defended only
by the forgery of silly and uninteresting stories, it
does not deserve to be defended at all. Those who
invent and propagate such tales, do not, surely,
consider that they bring discredit upon their order
by the warmth of their zeal; and that, by support-
ing what is false, they debar thinking men from
l>elieving what is true.
AFTER the establishment of the Kilwinning
and York lodges, the principles of Free Mason-
ry were rapidly diffused throughout both king.,.
doms, and several lodges were erected in diffe-
rent parts of the island. As all these derived
their authority and existence from the two mo-
ther lodges, they were likewise under their ju-
risdiction and contraul; and when any differ-
ences arose, which were connected. with tQe art
of building, they were referred to the general
meetings of the fraternity' which were always
held at Kilwinning and York! In this manner
did Free Masonry flourish for a while in Britain,
when it was cqmpletely ab91ished in every part
of the world. But even here· it was doomed to
suffer a long and serious decline, anc:i to experi-
ence those alternate sucqessions of advancement
;md decay, which mark the history of every hu-
man institution. And. though during several cen-
~uries after the importation of Free Masonry in-
tq
9
·--- - .....
Digitized by Google
- ~---~-
FREE MASONRY. 93
to Britain, .the brethren of the order held their
public assemblies, and were sometimes prohibit-
ed from meeting by the interference of the legis-
lature, it can scarcely be said to have attracted
general attention till the beginning.of the seven..
teenth century. The causes of this remarkable
retardation which the progress of masonry expe-
rienced, it is by no means difficult to discover.
In consequence of t4e important privileges which
the order received from the church of Rome,
many chose the profession of an architect, wl)iclt,
though, at all times, an honourable employment,
was particularly in the highest request during the
mi.ddle ages. On ;this account, the body of ope-
rativ~ masons encre~d to such a degree, and.th~
rage, as well as the necessity of religious edifices,
was so much di~jnished, that .a more than suf-
ficient numbe,r of hands could, at any time, be
procured for supplying the ~emands of the church,
and of pious individuals. Anc;l, as there was
now no scarcity ~f architects, the very reason
which prompted the church to protect the frater.
nity, no longer existed ; they, therefore, !,with-
drew from them that patronage, and those fa.
vours which they had spontaneously proffered,
and denied them even the liberty of holding th!!ir
secret assemblies,-the unalienable privilege of
every free born-community. But these were not
the only causes which produced such a striking
change in the conduct of the.church, to the rna-:
sonic order. We have already mentioned, that the
spirit of Free Masonry was hostile to the principles
· · of
Digitized by Google
-·=-. -......~---------~-
/
94 THE HISTORY OF
of the church of Rome. The intention of the one
was to enlighten the mind; the object and policy
of the other to retain it in ignorance. When Free
Masonry flourished, the powerof the church must
have decayed. The jealousy of the latter, there-
fore, was aroused; and, as the civil power in Eng-
land and Scotlartd was almost ~ways in the hands
of ecclesiastics, the church and the state were
both combined against the principles and prac-
tice of Free Masonry*. Along with these cauSes,
the domestic and bloody wars, which con'f'Ulsed
the two kingdoms from the thirteenth to the ·
seventeenth century, conspired, in a great degree,
to produce that decline of the fraternity for
which we have been attempting to account.
· BUT notwithstanding these unfavourable cir-
cumstances, Free Masonry seems to have flourish-
ed, and attracted the attentiOn of the public in
the reign of Henry VI. who, when a minor, as-
cended the throne of England in 1422. In the
third year of his reign, indeed, the parliament
passed a severe act against the fraternity, at the
insti-
• As a proof of the hostility of the church of Rome to se-
cret associations which pretended to e1llighten the mind, we
~entioned (P• 53· .rupr11) its treatment of the Academy of~­
crets, instituted in the sixteenth century for the advancement
of Physical Science. When a local and temporary institution
drew down the vengeance of the Roman ~e, what must have
beell its conduct to a lodge of masons? A farther account of
the Academy of Secrets may be found in Priestley's History
ef Vuion, vol. ~
Digitized by Goog.!:..._
1
I
"""""'"' ---:x:;....._ --=- ~ ·- -
95
instigation of Henry Beaufort, Bishop of Wm-
chester, w~ was then entrusted with the educa-
tion of the, young King. They enacted tha.t
the masons should no longer hold their chapters
and annual assemblies; that those who summon-
ed such chapters and assemblies should be consi-
dered as felons; and that those who resorted to
them should be fined and imprisoned•. But it
would appear that this act was never put in exe-
cution ; for, in the year 1429, about five years
after it was framed, a respectable lodge was held
at Canterbury, under the patronage of the Arch-
bishop himselft. When King Henry was able
to taJ.c into his own hands the government of
his kingdom, and to form an opinion of his own
respecting the use and tendency of the masonic
fraternity, in order to atone for the rigorous con-
duct of his Parliament, he not only permitted
the order to hold their meetings without moles-
tation, but honoured the lodges by his presence
as a brother. Before he was initiated, however,
into the mysteries of the order, he seems to have
examined, with scrupulous care, the nature of
the institution, and to have perused the charges
and
j• 3 Henry VI. cap. i. A. D. 1425, see Rutrhead's Sta.
tjutes. Dr Plot's Natural History of Staffordshire, chap. viii.
~.31L .
, t Manuscript Register of William Molart, prior of Can- .
)
erbury. p. 28. entitled, I..ibn-lltio gmw11/u DMnilli G~tlidnu~
-prioris &tk1ite Christi c.,~~~~~rmm, ergofolium fllltalu D.,;.
,; 14'19• In this Reper are mentioned the. names of the
/ lUSters, wardens, and other members of the lodge.
Digitized by Google
~-....--..,_ -S!IIIIia-
------ --- - ~ ·~ · . ,__
THE HISTORY OF
and regulations of the fraternity, as ·collected
from their ancient records. These facts are con-
tained in a record written in the reign of his
successor, Edward IV. and confirmed by a manu-
script in King Henry's own hand-writing, which
is familiar to every person who has studied the
history of our order*. This manuscript consists
of questions and answers concerning the nature
and tendency of Free Masonry, and seems to be
the result of the King's examination of some of
the brethren before he became a member of the
fraternity. It was first procured from the Bod-
leian library by the celebrated Mr L9cke, who
transmitted it to the Earl of Pembroke, with
several excellent explanatory notes t. In the title
of
• We have hitherto been careful to bring forward no facts
upon the sole evidence of the records, or the opinions of Free
Masons; such evidence, indeed, can never satisfy the minds
of the uninitiated public. But when ,these records contain
facts, the fabrication of which could be of no service to the
fraternity, they may, in this case, be entitled to credit ; or,
when facts which do reftect honour upon the ordet,. are
confirmed by evidence from another quarter, the authori~ of
the record entitles them to a still greater degree of cr
With respect to the facts mentioned in the text, we have
merely the authority of the record and manuscript alluded o,
but we ,have proof that there lvas no collusion in the case ; ft: r
the record is mentioned in the book of Constitutions by
Anderson, who.had neither seen nor heard of the manuscript
t This manuscript wu first printed at Franckfort in 1748
and afterwards reprinted in the London and Gentleman's Ma
gaz.ines for I7J3• It may be seen in the lives of Leland,
Heame
Digitized by Goo le
FREE MASONRY, 97
of the manuscript, it is said to have been faith-
fully copied from the hand-writing of King
Henry VI. by John Leland, antiquarian, who,
according to Mr Locke, was the celebrated anti-
quary of that name who lived in the sixteenth
century, and was appointed by King Henry Vill.
at the dissoh,1tion of monasteries, to search for, and
save such books as were wt>rthy of preservation.
As this manuscript was originally printed at
:Frankfort, I was led to enquire what grounds
there were for believing that the explanatory
notes, and the letter to the .Earl of Pembroke
which accompany it, were the production of Mt
Locke. But I found that this had been uniform-
ly taken for granted by every writer upon the
subject, though the circumstance is not mention-
ed in the folio edition of Mr Locke's works.
The style of the letter, however, and the ac-
cuteness of the annotations, resemble so much
that philosopher's manner of writing, and the let•
ter is so descriptive of Mr Locke's real situation at
the time when it was written, that it is almost im..
possible to deny their authenticity. In the lettet
itself, which is dated 6th May 1696, Mt Locke
remarks that he composed the notes for the sake
of Lady Masham, who was bec9me very fond of
masonry, and that the manuscript had so much
excited his own curiosity, that he was determin-
·ed
Hearne, and Wood, 8vo. Oxford, I?7Z1 vol. I. pp. 96, 104.
Appendix,' No viii.; in Preston's Illustrations of Masonry,
p. no. atld in Dermott's Ahlman Rezon, p. xlv_
N
Digitized by Coogle
9B THE HISTOR.Y OF
ed to enter into the fra.tern,ity the next time
he went to London, which, he adds, will be very
soon. Now Mr Locke was at this time residing
~t Oates, the country seat of Sir J:l'rancis Mash-
am, as appears· from one of his letters to Mr
Molyneux, which is dated ~ate~ March 30th,
16¢ ; and it appears, that he actually went to
London a short time after the sioKth of May;
for another letter to the same gentleman is dat-
ed, London~ 2d July 1696 *· Notwithstanding
these facts, Dr Plot maiDtains that Free Masonry
was not patronised byKing Henry VI. t and that
those who ha:ve supported a different opinion, were
ignorant of the laws and chronicles of their own
country. Dr Plot may have been a good che-
mist and natural historian, but when our.readers
hear upon what fuundation he has established his
opinion, they will agree with us in thinking that
be was a bad logician. He observes, that an act
was passed in the king's minority, prohibiting all
general assemblies and chapters of Free Masons,
and that as this act was not repealed till 1562,
by sth Eliubeth, cap. + it was impossible that
Free Masonry could be patronised in the same
reign in which it was prohibited. The fact is, that
the act was not repealed by 5th Eliubeth, cap. +
which does not contain a single word about Free
Masons. If Dr Plot's argument, therefore, pro,
ns any thing, it would prove that Free Masonry
has
• Locke's Works, folio, vol. 3· ,
t Natural History of Staffordshire, cap. viii. p. 318.
-~;.;:=-- ------ - - - -
__ o;9;tizedbyGoogle
·FREE MASONllY; 99
has not been patronised·since the reign 6f Henty
VI. for that act has never yet been repealed. But
supposing thilt it was repealed, the pmhibitory
statute in Henry's reign might never have been
put in execution, as very often happens; and Dr
Plot himself remarks, that the act sth Eli-z.a-
beth was not observed. It is plain, therefore,
that instead of being impossible, it is highly pro-
bable that King Henry patronised the fraternity.
When they were persecuted by his parliament," he
was only three.years of age, and could neither ap-
proYe. nor disapprove of its sentence; and it was
very natural, when he came to the years of ma-
turity, that he should undo a deed which his par-
liament had dishonourably done.
WHILE Free Masonry was flourishing in Eng-
land under the auspices of Henry VI. it was at
the same time patronised, in the sister kingdom,
by King James I. By the authority of this mo-
narch, every Grand-Maater who was chosen by the
brethren, either from the nobility or clergy, and
approved of by the crown, was entitled to an an-
nual revenue of four pounds Scots from each mas-
ter mason, and likewise to a fee at the initiation of
every new member. He was empowered to ad-
just any differences that might arise ·among the
brethren, and to regulate those affairs, coAnected
with the fraternity, which it was improper to bring
under the cogni-z.ance of the courts of law. The
Grand-Master,also,appointed deputies or wardens,
N 2 who
Digitized by Coogle
100 THE HISTORY OF
who resided in the chief towns of Scotland, and
managed the concerns of the order, when it waa
inconvenient to appeal to the Grand-Master him-
self•.
IN the reign of James II. Free Masonry was by
no means negle<;ted. The office of Grand Mas.
ter was granted by the crown to William St Clair,
Earl of Orkney and Caithness, Baron of Roslin,
and founder of the much admired chapel of
Roslin. On account of the attention which this
nobleman paid to the interests of the order, and
t:he rapid propagation of the royal art under his
administration, King James II. made the office
of Grand-Master hereditary to his·heirs and suc-
cessors, in the barony of Roslin; in which fami-
ly it continued till the institution of the Grand
Lodge of Scotland. The Barons of Roslin, as he.,
reditary Grand-Masters of Scotland, held their
principal annual meetings at Kilwinning, the
birth place of Scotish Masonry, while the lodge
of that village granted constitutions, and charters
oferection to those brethren ofthe order,who were
anxious that regular lodges should be formed in
different parts of the· kingdom. These lodges
all held of the lodge of Kilwinning; and., in to-
ken of their respect and submission, joined to
their own name, that of their mother lodge, from
whom they derived their existence as a corpora-
~onf,
DuRING
• See Appendix, No II.
t Such as Canongate Kilwinnin~, &,c;
- - - 0 - - -~·- ~~- - - - · - -
•
Digitized by Google
-- -----------
FRJlE MASONRY. 101
DuRING the succeeding reigns of the Scotish
monarchs, Free Masonry still flourished, though
very little information can be procured respect-
ing the particular state of the fraternity. In the
PrivySeal book ofScotland, however, there is a let-
ter dated at Holyroodhouse, 25th September 1590,
and granted by King James VI. " to Patrick Cop-
" land of Udaught, for using and exercising the
" office of W ardanrie over the art and craft of ma-
u sonrie, over all the boundis of Aberdeen, Banff,
" and Kincardine, to had wardan and justice·
" courts within the said boundis, and there to
" minister justice*." This letter confirms what
bas already been said concerning the state of ma-
sonry in Scotland. It proves beyond dispute, that
the Kings of Scotland nominated the office-bear-
ers of the order; that these provincial masters, or
wardens, as they were then called, administered
justice in every dispute which. concerned the
u art and craft of masonrie ;" that lodges were
established in all parts of Scotland, even in those
remote, and, at that time, uncivilized counties of
Aberdeen, Banft, and Kincardine; and it com-
pletely overturns the unfounded assertion of Dr
Robison, who maintllinsf, that the celebrated
antiquary Elias Ashmole, who was initiated in
1646, is the only distinct and unequivocal instance
of a person being admitted into the fraternity
who was not an architect by profession.
• Privy Seal Book of Scotland, 61. F. 47·
t J;>roofs of a Conspiracy, p. :u•
• Digitized by Google
----
TRB lUSTOR.Y f1f'
· Tu'miirutes of St Mary's chapel, which is the
caldest lodge in .Edinburgh, extend as far back as
the year 1598; but as they contain only the ordi-
nary proceedings of the lodge, we can derive from
them no particular information respecting the
customs and condition of the fraternity. It ap-
pears, however, from these minutes, that Thomas
Boswell, Esq. of Auchinleck, was made a warden
of the lodge in the year 16oo; arid that the Hon-
ourable Robert Moray, ~artermaster-General
to the army in Scotland, was created a master
mason in 16.•p. These facts are deserving of no-
tice, as they show, in opposition to Dr Robison,
that persons were early admitted into the order,
who were not architects by profession.
WREN James VI. ascended the throne of Eng-
land, he $eeiDS to have neglected his right of
dOminating tbe office-bearers of the craft. In
Ha.;t's Manuscript in the Advocates' Library, there
are two charters granted by the Scotish masons,
appointing the Sinclairs of Roslin their heredita-
ry Grand-Masters. The first of these is without
a date, but signed by several masons who appoint
William St Clair of Roslin, his heirs and succes-
sors, their" patrons und judges*." The other is, m
some measure, a ratification of the first, and dated
1630, in which they appoint Sir \Villiam St Cl«tir
of Roslin, his heirs and successors, to he their " pa-
" trons, protectors, and overseers, in a11 time com-'
ing."
• See Appendix No I.
•
Digitized by Goo le
-- -- _ _.._ _,=
-
FaEE MASON1Y. 103
ing*." In the first of these deeds, which seems to
have been written a little ~er the union of the
crowns, it is stated, that the want of a protector,
for some years, had engenckred many corruptions
among the masons, and had considerably retarded
the progress.ofthe craft ; and that the appointment
of William Sinclair, Esq. \vas, with the adlice and
consent of William Shaw, Master of Work to his
Majesty. After presiding· over the order for many
years, .William. St Clair w~nt to Ireland, where
he continued a considerable time; and~ in conse-.
quence of his departure, the secon(i charter was
granted to his son Sir William StClair, investing
him with the same powers which his father en-
joyed. It deserves also to be remarked, that in both
these deeds, the appointment of William Sinclair.,
Earl of Orkney and. ·Caithness, to the office of
Grand Master, by James II. of Scotland. is spoken
of as a fact well known, and UDiversally admit.a
ted. These observations will set in a clear point
of view what must hitherto have appeared a
great inconsistency in the . History of Scotish
Masonry. In the deed by which William Sin·
clair, Esq._
of Roslin, resigned the office of he·
reditary Grand-Master in 1736, it is stated that
his ancestors, William and Sir.William St Clair
of Roslin, were constituted patrons of the frater-
nity by the Scotish Masons them.selvest; while
it is well known, that the grant of hereditary
Grand
• See Appendix No II.
t This deed of resignation is inserted at full length ill w
second part of this work.
Digitized by Google
----~~--~~~-----~-------·--"------~---~----------
104 THE HISTORY OF
Grand-Master was originally made by James II.
of Scotland, to their ancestor, William Sinclair,
Earl of Orkney and Caithness. But, when we
consider that James VI. by not exercising his
power, virtually transferred to the craft the right
of electing their office...bearers, the inconsistency
vanishes ; for Mr Sinclair and his predecessors,
as tar back as the date of these charters, held
their office by the appointment of the fraternity
itself. Lest any of Mt Sinclair's posterity, how-
ever, might, after his resignation, lay claim to the
office ofGrand-Master, upon the pretence that this
office was bequeathed to them by the grant of
James II. to the Earl of Caithness and his heirs;
he renounces not only the right to the office
which he derived from the brethren, but any
right also, which, as a descendant of the Earl of
Caithness, he might claim from the grants of the
Scotish monarchs.
NoTWITHSTANDING those civil commotions
which disturbed Britain in the seventeenth cen-
tury, Free Masonry flourished in Scotland, -r~n­
der the auspices of the· Sinclairs of Roslin. No
particular event, however, which is worthy of
notiee, occurred during that time, or even dur-
ing the remainder of the century. The annual
assemblies of the fraternity, were still held at Kil-
winning, and many charters and constitutions
were granted by the lodge of that village, for the
erection of lodges in different parts of the king-
dom.
...
Digitized by Google
Fll.EE MASONJ-1',
IN the year I 736, William St Clair of Roslin,
Esq. who was then· Grand..Master of Scotland,
was under the necessity of disponing his 'estate,
and, as he bad no children of his own, he was
anxious that the office of Grand-Master should
not be vacant at his death. Having, therefore,
assembled the Edinburgh and neighbouring
lodges, he represented to them the utility that
would accrue to the order, by having a gentleman
or nobleman, of their own choice, as Grand-Mas-
ter of Ma8onry in Scotland ; and, at the same
time, intimated his intention to resign into the
hands of the brethren, every title to that office
which he at present possessed, or which his succes-
aors might claim from the grants of the Scotisb
Kings, and the kindness of the fraternity. In
consequence of this representation, circular let-
ters were dispatched to all the lodges of Scot-
land, inviting them to appear, either by them.
selves or proxies, on next St Andrew's day, to
concur and assist in the election of a Grand-
Master. When that day arrived, about thirty-
two lodges appeared by themselves or proxies, and,
after receiving the deed of resignation from Wil-
. liam Sinclair, Esq. proceeded to the election of
another Grand~Master; when,.on account of the
uai which William Sinciair, Esq. of Roslin bad
always shown for the honour and prosperity of
the order, be was unanimously elected to that
high office, and proclaimed Grand-Master Mason
of all Scotland. Thus was the Grand Lodge of
0 Scot~
ar A .;·. --.·-
Io6 THJ: HISTORY OF
Scotland instituted, whose future history will form
the Second Part of this work.
WE have already brought down the history of
masonry in .England to the end, nearly, of the
fifteenth century. During the whole of the six-
teenth, and the beginning of the seventeenth cen-
tury, no events occurred which can be inserted in a
general history of the order. The lodges conti-
nued to meet, but seem neither to hure attracted
the notice, nor excited the displ~asure of the le-
gislature. ·
DuRING the civil wars, however, between the
King and the·Parliament, t~ fraternity appean to
have been better known ; and many were initi-
ated into irs·mysteries, who were equally distin-
guished by their literary talents, and their rank
in life. Elias Ashmole informs us, that be and
Colonel Mainwaring were admitted into the order
at Warrington, in October r646•. This gentle-
min was the celebrated antiquarian who founded
the Ashmolean museum at Oxford. His attach-
ment to the fraternity ·is evident from ,his dili.:
gent enquiries into its origin and history, and his
long and freqU'ent attendance upon its meetingsf.
Charles II. too, .was a member of the fraternity,
and frequent1y honoured the lOdges with his pre-
sence t. .From this fact~· chiefly, Dr Robison as-
' " J ,, ..
serts,
•• Ashmole's Diary, p. I 5. , t Id. p. 66.
·f Proofs of • Conspiracy, p. 22•
., ____, .- --
---........ ·--
FREE 1\IASONRY.• 107
serts, th'-t Free Masonry was em~yed by t.lte
royavsts for .promoting the cause of their sove.
reign, and that the ritual· of the master's degree
seems to have been formed, .or twisted {rQm itiS
original U.stitutio~, in order to soun<l.: the political
principles of the <:andidate*. T.be 1tr.ained aod
fanciful analogy by which thls·opinieo is 61\f>port-
ed, is perhap$ one of the mQSt sttikieg- iQ~~es
that could ·be addu~ed. to show, tQ \f.fbt~.t pn~rile
arguments the mo8t l~rned will r~, c1wheq
en~aged in the defeOJ::e of a bad ca~. . ..B.t~-t
though Dr Robison ~int~ins, tbat .~Jl wbt) wit..
nessed the c·~remonies ·of 'the master~s dcsgrae4ur..
ing the civil WatS, could not tail.tu sbpw,_\ly the_if
countenances, to what .party they bdonge4, y~l
be observes, in another part of his; work, ·\hat
the symbols of masonry seemed to be. :ectttally $US-i
ceptible of every interpretation, aod that wnte .ei
these were entitled to a11y decided pref.ealence~t..
For such inconsistences as theSe: we leave our
readers to account.
AN-opinionofan oppo~~ natilre,thoughequally
extravagant, has been maintained by Pivati:f:., and
the author of -s Frte Ma!onry Examined." These
writers assert, that Free Mtsonry"originated.in the
time of the .English commonwealth.,; that Olivet
Cromwell was its-inventor; that the·level "'"as the
· , I · symbol
• Proofs of a Conspiracy, p. :u. ·
t .ld. P• 99• , ::~
:t Pivati Art. Liberi Muratori auvero Francs Ma~ons \"c.
nczia, quoted by Mr Clinc.h.
0 ?.
" oigltized by Google
g@
-----
zoB t'BE HISTOR.Y OF
symbol of republican equality; and that·the other
signs and ceremonies were merely arbitrary, and
formed for concealing their political designs. It
would be·ridiculous to enter into a serious refu-
tation of such opinions as these, which are found-
ed on the moat unpardonable ignorance. That
Free Masonry existed before the time of Crom-
well is as capable of demonstration, as that Crom-
well himself ever existed. It is really entertain-
ing to observe, what inconsistent and opposite
opinions are formed upon the same subject. Ac-
cording to one writer, Free Masonry was invent-
ed and employed by the adherents of the King ;
according to anotber1 it was devised by the
friends of the Parliament. In the opinion of
eome, it originated among the Jesuits, who used
it for the promotion of their spiritual tyranny
and superstition ; while others maintain, that it
arose among a number of unprincipled sceptics,
who employed it for destroying the spiritual ty-
ranny and superstition of the Jesuits!
IT was about this time, according to Dr Ro-
bison, that Free Masonry was introduced among
the continental kingdoms. After James II. of
England had abdicated. the throne, and taken re-
fuge in France with several of his adherents, it
is probable that they would communicate addi-
tional spirit to the 'French lodges ; but that the
}:nglish refugees were the fint who exported ma-
son!')' from Britain, or that tbey employe~ it
for
--
Qig1tized by Goo
~.~
il!!
l!ll
e.........
.
....,....__ - -------....... ---.,._...,..,J..;;I:"_~=.,....-------..
·~·¢'!$~-"":-~::::aoJIII
.., .
• ..
,.~."11!-'!"l,t£1!"!
. _!!-\!5!1
. ...- ..
FIUK MA!ONa.T.
for re-establishing the Stuart family on the Eng-
lish throne, it is impossible to prove. Such as-
sertions Dr Robison has not only hat.arded, but
has employed them also as the foundation of de-
famatory conclusions, without adducing a single
proof in their support. Notwithstanding the dif-
ficulty, however, of determining the precise pe-
riod when the principles ofFreeMasonry were im-
ported into France, it is manifest, from the univer-
sal consent of the continental lodges, that it was of.
British origin; arid it is more than probable, that
the French received it from Scotland abou~ the
middle of the sixteenth century, during the mi-
nority of ~een Mary. It is well known, that
there was at that time a freer intercourse between
Scotland and France than at any other period.
Mary ~een ofScots was then married to the heir-
apparent of France; and Mary of Guise, sister to
the French King, was at the same time Regent of
Scotland. In consequence of this intimate con-
nection betw~en the two kingdoms, French troops
were sent to the assistance of the Scots, who, hav-
ing resided many years in the kingdom, and being
habituated to the manners and customs of their
allies, would naturally carry along with them in-
to their native country, those custom$ which af-
forded them pleasure ; and none we know could
be more congenial to the taste and dispositions
of Frenchmen, than the ceremonial observances
of Free Masonry. But it is not upon these con-
Jiderations merely that our &pinion depends. It
receives
Digitized by Google
110 ·nu: HISTORY OF
receives ample confirmation from a.fact, ofwhich
Dr Robison seems to have been totally. ignorant.
In the year z645, a particular jurisdiction for
mas6ns, called Ma~onnerie, or Masonry, was esta-
blished in France. All differences which related
to the art of building, were decided by particu.
lar judges who were called Overseers of the Art
ofMasonry; and several counsellors were appoint-
ed for pleading the causes. which were referred to
their decision*. This institution has such a strik-
ing resemblance to the warden·courts which ex-
isted in Scotland in the sixteenth century+, tbat
it must have derived its origin from these. In
both of them, those causes only were decided
which related to masonry, and ove~en were cho.
sen in both for bringing these causesto a decisiont.
But as similar tribunals were held in no·Other part
of the ,/orld, and as the warden courts were first
established in Scotland, it is almost certain, that
the French borrowed from the Scots the idea of
their masonic tribunal, as well as Free Masonry it-
self,
• Ma~onnerie est aussi le nom d'une jurisdiction particuli-
~re pour les ma~ons: Elle se tient au palais ~ Paris, et les ap-
pellations sont port&s au parlement: cette jurisdiction a &e
etablie en 1645• Ceux qui l'exercent sont appellea Generaux
des Oeuvres de Ma~onnerie de France. lla connoillte'nt de dif.
ferends entre les c;euvriers concernant le fait des batimonu. ·
La ma~onnerie a des procureurs particulieres, different de
ceux de .,.rlement, qui cependant peuvent y plaider. Dic-
tionnaire de Trevoux, v~, S· p. 23.
t Seep. 101, tupra. ·
t See Appendix, No II.
- ~ ......-
··- - - -,..,-
FR.U MASONRY. Ill
self, at that particular period when there was
such a free communication between the two king-
doms. Tpat the French received Free Masonry
from Scotland, may be presumed also from the
singular pre-eminence which was always given by
foreigners to Scotish Masonry, and from the de-
gree of Cbe'Valier Mafon Ecossoi.r, which, as at
mark of respec::t to Scotland, the French had ad-
ded to the three symbolical degrees of masonry,
about the beginning of the eighteenth century,
Had Free Masonry not been introduced into
France till after the revolution in 1688, as Dr
Robi:90n affirms, it is wonderful how such a fact
should have been so quickly forgotten; for it was
unknown about thirty or forty years afterwards,
at what period the French received it ·from
Britain; and, if the exiled family had employ-
ed Free Masonry for cwertuming the Hano-
verian succession, it is still more stran~e that
such a circumstance shoul<l be unknown in a
country, where concealment was certainly unne-
cessary. When any new custom is introduced
into a nati<>n, the time of its introduction may
be remembered for seventy or eighty years by
one individual, without being committed to writ-
ing; and, though it be not ofsufficient importance,
tradition will preserve it from Jblivion for a much'
greater length of time. If Fr.-!e Masonry, there-
fore, never existed in' France till after the revOJ
lution in 1688, is it not absurd to suppose, ttui.l
the period.whefi such a singular. institution·-
wal
esta-
Digitized by ·oogle
In THE HISTORY OF
established, should be utterly forgotten at the
distance of thirty or forty years from its establish-
ment, though, duri.ng that time, it was never per-
secuted by the French government?
BuT, at whatever period, and from whatever
source Free Masonry was introduced into France,
it assumed there a very remarkable form. The at-
tachment ofthat people to innovation andexternal
finery, produced the most unwarrantable altera-
tions upon the principles and ceremonies of the or-
der. A number of new degrees were created; the
office-bearers of the craft were arrayed in the most
splendid and costly attire; and the lodges were
transformed into lecturing rooms•.where the wiser
brethren sported the most extravagant opini-
ons, discussed the abstrusest questions in thea-
logy and political economy, and broached opi-
nions which were certainly hostile to true reli-
gion and sound government. In the other coun-
tries of the continent, similar innovations, in a
greater or less degree, prevailed, while the British
lodges preserved the principles of the craft in
their primitive simplicity and excellence. Such
dangerous innovations have not the smallest con-
nection with the principles of Free Masonry.
They are unnatural excrescences formed by a
warm imagination, and fostered by the interfer-
ence of designing men. Those who reprehend
Free Masonry, therefore, for the changes which
it \lilderwent in the hands of foreigners, may
throw
·..-11!'!-'...
Digitized by Goog ,.,...._ .,I
-FREE MASONRY. Il3
throw equal blame upon religion, because it has
been a cloak for licentiousness and hypocrisy; or,
upon science, because it has been converted into
an instrument of iniquity. The changes of which
we have been treating, arose altogether from the
political condition of the countries where they
were made. In France, and the other kingdoms
of Europe, where popery was the ecclesiastical
establishment, or where absolute power was in
the hands of their monarchs, the most slavish re-
straints were imposed upon ):he conduct, and con-
versation of the people. None durst utter his own
sentiments, or converse upon such metaphysical
subjects as militated against the theology and poli-
tics ofthe times. Under such restraints,speculative
men, in particular, were highly dissatisfied: Those
powers which heaven had bestowed, andon the ex-
ercise of which their happiness depended, were fet-
tered by human laws; and that libe1tyofs.peech re-
strained, which tyranny had no right to controul:
For these .reason\ the lodges were frequented by
men of philosoplucal habits, who eagerly embra-
ced an opportunity of declaring their sentiments,
and discussing the favourite objects of their stu-
dy, without dreading the threats of government,
or the tortures of the Inquisition. In this view~
the lodges may be compared to little republics,
enjoying the rational liberties of human nature,
in the midst of an extensive empire, enslaved by
despotism and superstition. In the course of
time, however, that liberty was abused, and doc-
p trines
Digitized by Google
THE HISTORY OF·
trines were propagated in the French and Ger-
man lodges, which it is the duty and policy of
every government to discover and suppress. But
these com1ptions had, by no means, a necessary
connection \\;th Free Masonry: They arose whol-
ly from the political condition of the continental
kingdoins. In Britain, where the order subsisted
much longer than in any other country, its his-
to~y is stained by no glaring corruptions, or offen-
sive innovations; more attention was paid to the
intrinsic value of the orde~, than !O its external
observances; and th~ British lodges had a great-
er resemblance to charitable meetings, than to
pompous and splendid assemblies. Blessed with
a free constitution, and allowed every innocent
liberty of our nature, we can divulge our senti-
ments with the greatest freedom, we .can mark
even the errors of administration without any to
make us afraid. In such circumstances, Britons
· are under no temptation to introduce into the
lodges religious and political discussions. The
liberty of the press enables them to give the wid-
est circulation to their opinions, however new or
extravagant; and they are liable to no punishment,
by publicly attacking the established religion of
their country. The British lodges, therefore, have
retained their primitive purity; they have been
employed in no sinister cause; they have har-
boured in their bosom neither traitors, nor athe-
ists, nor French philosophers.
WHILE
Digitized by Google
- - -.
--~ - -- -·-
FREE MASONRY. IIS
WHILE the French were busily engaged in the
decoration of their lodges, and in the invention
of new degrees and trifling ceremonies, the ma-
sons in England were more ' wisely employe'd in
~xtending the boundaries of the royal art. About
the begin"
ning of the eighteenth century, during
the reign of Q.!.!een Anne, Free Masonry seems
to have rapidly declined in the South of Eng-
land. Four lodges only existed in the soQth, and
few hopes could be entertained of a revival, while
the seat of the grand lodge was at such a distance
as the city of York. In such circumstances. the
four lodges met in 1717, and, in order to give
vigo\Sr to their declining cause, and advance the
interests of the fraternity in the south, they elect-
ed themselves into a Grand Lodge, and chose An.
thony Sayer, Esq. for their first Grand-Master.
Thus was instituted the Grand Lodge of Eng.
land, which has now attained to such a pitch of
prosperity and splendour. The motive which
suggested this institution, was certainly laudable
and useful ; but every person must be aware,
that the four lodges were guilty of a considerable
impropriety in omitting to request the counte-
nance of the Grand Lodge of York. Notwith.
standing this negligence, the greatest harmony
subsisted between the two Grand Lodges till
1734; and under the auspices of both, the order
flourished in every part of the kingdom, but parti-
cularly in the Sot~th of England, where it had for-
p 2 merly
Dig1tize~ by Google
u6 THE HISTORY OF
merly been in such a languishing condition. In
the year 1734, however, the Grand Lodge of
England having granted constitutions to lodges
within the district of York, without the consent
of theit Grand Lodge, incurred to such a degree
the displeasure of the York· masons, that the
friendly intercourse which had formerly subsist-
ed between them, was completely broken off, and
the prosperity of the one was always viewed by
the other with a suspicious eye. In 1739, also,
some trifling innovations upon the ancient cus-
toms of the order, having been imprudently sanc-
tioned by the Grand Lodge of England, several
'of the old J...ondon masons were highly offended,
and, after seceding from the Grand Lodge, and
pretending to act under the York constitution,
they gave themselves the appellation of And-
ent Masons, while they attached to those con-
nected with the Grand Lodge the odious appel-
lation of Modems, who, in their opinion, never
existed till the year 1717. The ancient masons,
after their secession, continued to hold their
meetings, without acknowledging a superior, till
the year I 772, when they chose, for their Grand-
Master, the Duke of Athol, who was tben Grand-
Master Elect for Scotland. Since that period,
both the Grand Lodges of England have attain-
ed to a high degree of prosperity ; but such is
their mutual antipathy, that the members of the
one have no correspondence Of communion with
those of the other. The Irish and Scotish masons,
how-
...
------- Digitized by Goo ~~.._. z"'lllll
FREE MASONRY. U7
however, who seem rather to favour the Ancients,
hold communion with both the Grand Lodges,
and are allowed to be present at all their meet-
ings. It is much to be regretted, that such res-
pectable bodies as the two Grand Lodges of Eng-
land, should retard the progress of masonry .by
their mutual jealousies and dissensions. Schisms
in societies generally arise from misconduct on
both sides, which was certainly the case in the
schism under consideration. The Moderns un-
doubtedly departed from their usual caution and
propriety of conduct, by authorising the slightest
innovations upon the ceremonies of an ancient
institution. But the Ancients have been guilty
of a greater impropriety by being the active pro-
moters of the schism; and still more, by holding
up the Moderns to the ridicule of the public. . If
these errors, however, were mutually acknowledg-
ed, and buried in oblivion, that breach would
soon be repaired which has so long separated the
two lodges, and which the Scotish and Irish ma-
sons have alway,s regarded with pity and indig-
nation*.
AFTER
• Much injury has been done to the cause of the ancient
masons, by a book, intitled .Ahiman Rt'Zon, written by one
Dermott, their secretary. The unfairness with which he has
stated the proceedings of the Moderns, the bitterness with
which he treats them, and the quackery and vain glory with
which he displays his own pretensions to superior knowledge,
deserve to be reprobated by every class of masons who aJ:e
anxious for the purity of the~ order, and the preservation of
tOOt
.... --- -..- Dig1tize; by Google
us THE HISTORY OF
AFTER the institution of the Grand Lodge of
England in 1717, Free Masonry assumed a bold-
er and a more independent aspect. It was no long-
er confined to the British Isles, or to the capital
of Fcance, but was destined to irradiate every por-
tion of the, globe ; and, while the Grand Lodges
of Scotland and England contemplated with plea-
sure the propagation of the royal art, their di-
ligence was fully rewarded by the gratitude and
liberality of the foreign lodges, for the gift which
they received:
IN the year 1729, Free Masonry was introdu-
ced into the East Indies; and, in a short time
after, a provincial Grand-Master was appointed
to superintend the lodges in that quarter. In
1 730, the Grand Lodge of Ireland was institut-
ed ; lodges were erected in different parts of
America ; and a provincial deputation granted
to Monsieur Thuanus, for the circle of Lower
Saxony. A patent was sent from England in
1731, to erect a lodge at the Hague, in which
Francis Stephen, Duke of Lorrain, and after-
wards Emperor of Germany, was initiated into
the order; and provincial Grand-Masters were
appointed for Russia, and Andalusia, in Spain.
' In
that charity and mildness which ought to characterise all their
proceedings. The candour and fairness with which this d~li­
cate subject is treated by Mr Preston, in his Illustrations of
Masonry, merit the highest encomiums.
i
I
le_~
- ~- -------------··_,-.·--"" -
FREE MASONRY.
In 1736, lodges were erected at Cape Coast, in
Africa, and at Geneva; and provincial deputations
were granted for Upper Saxony and the Ameri·
can Islands. In I 738, a lodge was instituted at
Brunswic;k, under the patronage of the Grand
Lodge of Scotland, in which the late King of
Prussia was initiated, when Prince Royal. His Ma•
. jesty was so pleased with the maxims and cere.
monies of the order, that he, ever afterwards,
was its most zealous partizan, and requested even
that a lodge should be established in the capital
of his own dominions. In this lodge many of
the German Princes were initiated, who after-·
wards filled the office of Grand-Master, with much "
honour to themselves, and advantage to the fra-
ternity.
BUT while Free Masonry flourished in these
different parts of the world, and in many other
places which it would be tedious to enumerate,
it was doomed to undergo a variety of persecu-
tions from the unfoundedjealousies ofa few despo-
tic rulers, and the deep-rooted superstition ofa few
Catholic priests. Tqese persecutions took their
rise in Holland in the year 1735· The States
General were alarmed at the rapid increase of Free
Masons, who held their meetings in every town
under their government ; and as they <;oulJ not
believe that architecture and brotherly love we .e
their only objects, they resolved to discounte-
nance their proceedings. In consequence of this
deterJ
THE HISTORY OF
determination, an edict was ·issued by govern-
ment, stating, that though they had difscovered
nothing in the practices of the fraternity, either
·injurious to the interests of the republic, or con-
trary to the character of good citizens ; yet, in
order to prevent any bad consequences which
might ensue from such associations, they deem-
ed it prudent to abolish the assemblies of Free
Masons. Notwithstanding this prohibition, a res-
pectable lodge having continued to meet private-
ly .at Amsterdam, intelligence was communicat-
ed to the magistrates, who arrested all the mem-
bers, and brought them to the Court of Jus-
' tice. Before this tribunal, in presence of all the
magistrates of the city, the masters and war-
dens boldly defen4ed themselves; and declared,
upon oath, that they were loyal subjects, faith-
ful to their religion, and zealous for the interests
of their country ; that Free Masonry was an in-
stitution venerable in itself, and useful to society;
and that though they could not reveal the secrets
. and ceremonies of their order, they would assure
them that they were contrary to the laws nei-
ther ofGod nor man, and that they would willing-
ly admit into their order any indiviaual in whom
the magistrates could confide, and from whom
they might receive such information, as would
satify, a reasonable mind. In consequence of
these declarations, the brethren were dismissed,
and the town-secretary requested to become a
mem.ber of the fraternity: After initiation he re
turned
t
....
-
FREE MASONRY, 121
turned to the court of justice, and gave such a
favourable account of the principles and prac-
tice of the society, tnat ·all the magistrates be-
came brethren of.the order, and zealous patrons
of Free Masonry.
AFTER. Free Masonry had thus honourably tri-
umphed over her persecutors 'in Holland, she
bad to contend in France with prejudices, equally
inveterate, though less impregnable. Although
many persons of distinction detended the frater-
nity, and expostulated with the court, on the im-
propriety of severe measures, their assemblies
were abolished in 1737, under the common pre-
tence, that beneath their inviolable secrets, they
might cover some dreadfui dt:sign, hostile to reli-
gion, and dangerous to the kingdom. :But when
these ebullitions of party spirit and private malice
had subsided, the prohibitiOn of government was
gradualJy forgotten, and the fraternity in France
recovered their former prosperity and splendour.
IN Gennany, too, the trimquillity of the order
was interrupted by the malice of ~orne ignorant
;women. The curiosity of the female sex is pro-
verbial : A few German ladies, who possessed a
greater share of this commodity than is necessary
for shining in a drawing..:room conversation, J.re
anxious to discover the secrets of Free Masonry.
Having been baftled in all their attempts, · upo~
the fickleness of their husbands, and the fondness
of their admirers, they converted their curiosity
Q... in,tQ
Digitized by Google
·- ~-- - . ---
------ ---=--
uz THE lUS'IOilY OF
into revenge, and attempted to inflame the mind
of Maria Theresa, the Empress Q!!een, against
the lodges. in Vienna. ·Their attempt was in
some measure successful, as they persuaded her
to issue an order for surprising all the masons
in the city, when assembled in their lodges.
, This plan, however, was frustrated by the inter-
vention of the Emperor Joseph I. who being
himself a mason, declared his readiness to an.
swer for their conduct ; and showed the ladies and
their, friends, that the charges which they had
brought against the order Were false and defama.
tory,
WHEN the flame of persecution is once kin·
dled, its devastations are aeldom confined to the
country where it originated. The example of
one nation is urged as an excuse for the conduct
of another ; and, like the storm on the sandy
desert, its effects are ruinous in proportion to
its progress.' In Holland and France, the hostili.
ty of the legisla~ure against Free Masonry was in
a short time disarmed. But; when the flame reach-
ed the ecclesiastical states of Italy, it broke out
with more ungovernable rage,-its effeqs werq,
more cruel, and its duration more lengthened.
In the year 1738, a formidable bull was thun-
dered from the conclave, not only against Free
Masons themselves, but against all those wbo
promotedorfavoured their cause,-who gavethem
the smallest countenance or advice, or who were,
in any respect, connected with a set of men
who,
FREE MASONRY.
who, in the opinion of his Holiness, were enemiet
to the ttanquillity of the state, and hostile'to the
spiritual interests of souls. Notwitbstandihg the
severity of this boll, which threatem excommu-
nication to every offender, no particular charge,
either of a moral ·or political nature, is brought
against a single individual of the order. It is
merelystated,that the fraternity had spreadfar and
wide, and were daily increasing; that they admit-
ted men of every religion into their society, and
that they bound their members by oath, to pre-·
serve with inviolable secrecy, the mysteries of their
order, These circumstances, indeed, were suf-
ficient grounds for exciting the church of Rome
to oppose a system, so contrary to their supersti-
tious aDd contracted views, in religion and govern-
ment.
,
THIS bull was foltowed by an edict, dated 14th
January 1739, containing sentiments equally bi-
gotted, and enactments equally severe. The ser-
vitude of the gallies, the tortures of the rack, and
a fine of a thousand crowns in gold, were threat-
ened to persons of every description who were
Elaring enough to breathe the infectious air of a
masonic assembly.
ABouT a month after this edict was issued, a _
decree was emitted by his Holiness, condemning
a'French book, entitled an Apology for the So-.
eiety of Free Masons, and ordering it to be burnt
QL2 by
Digitized by Google
THE HISTORY OF
by the ministers of justice, in one of the most fre-
quented streets of Rome. Did.his Holiness ima-
gine, that by purloining a grain from a magazine of
gun-powder, the explosion would be less tremen-
dous? or, that by ·consuming a single copy of a
trifling tract, he could suppress its circulation, re-.
strain the inclinations and energies of the mind,
and blunt those social and benevolent affections,
which unite by an indissoluble tie the members of
a society.
Where Christians, Jews, and Turks, and Pagans stand,
One blended throng, one undistinguished band.
IN consequence of these enactments at Rome,
the Catholic clergymen of Holland attempted, in
the year 1740, to enforce obedience to the com-
mands of their superiors. It was customary among
the divines of that country to examine the re-
-ligious qualifications of those, who requested a
certificate to receive the holy sacrament. Tak-
ing advantage of their spiritual power, they con-
cluded their examination of the ca[\didates, by
asking if they were Free Masons : If they were,
the certificate was refused, and they were expell-
c;d for ever from the communion-table. After the
. priests had exerted their authority in the expul-
sion of several respectable characters, the sub-
ject excited general attention ; and when many
pamphlets had been published in defence of both
parties, the States General interfered, and prohi
bited the clergy from asking questions that were
uncon..-
- ·
- - -- --- ·~ -~ --
· FREE MASONRY.
unconnected with·the religious character of the
individual.
SEvErn Free Masons of distinction in Ger-
many, though steady friends to the church of
Rome, disapproved highly of its proceedings
I
against the fraternity, and were anxious to ·pre-
serve the order from that ruin to which it was
fast approaching. In order to effect this, they in-
stituted a new association, formed upon the same
principles, and.proposingto itself the same object
as Free Masonry. The members were denominat:
ed Mopses, from the German word mop.r, denot-
ing a young mastiff, which was deemed a proper
emblem of the mutual fidelity and attachment of
the brethren. But that they might preserve the
mysteries of Free Masonry from those members
of the new association who were not masons, they
rejected from their ritual all the masonic cere-
monies, words, and signs. And that they might
escape the vengeance of the Roman church, .they
softened all those parts of the institution which
.had a tendency to give offence to narrow and su-
perstitious minds. Instead, therefore, of bind-
ing the members by an oath, they took their
word ·of honGur, that they would never reveal
the mysteries and ceremonies of the order. It is
well known to every person acquainted with the
History of Masonry, that the exclusion of ladies
has been a fertile source of calumny against the
brethren. It was supposed that actions were per-
formed
oi9,tizect by Google
THE HISTORY OF
formed in the lodges inconsistent with the deli..
cacy of the female sex ; and, as in the case of
the Templars, that the most unnatural crimes
were perpetrated and authorised. In order· to
avoid this ground of defamation, the Mopses ad-
mitttd women ·into their lodges, who were allow-
ed to hold any office, except · that of Gnnd-
Mopse. The a880ciation of the Mopses were pa-
troni7.ed ·by some of the most illustrious cbarac-
ten in Germany; the lodges consisted of the
most respectable members of the community,
and several of the Princes of the Empire were
Grand-Masters of their order. The admission of
protestants or heretics into the mason lodges in
catholic countries gave great offence to the
church of Rome, and was one of the causes
which prompted the severity of their proceed-
ings. Aware of this circumstance, the Mopses
resolved to initiate none into their mysteries but
the steady friends of the catholic communion.
This, however, was merely a pretence to deceive
hia Holiness, for they admitted into their order,
without the smallest scruple, men of every reli-
gion and every country.
As the bulls of the Pope had no authority in
Swit1.erland, Free Masonry flourished in that re-
public till the year 1745, when a most unaccount-
able edict was issued by the council of Berne,
prohibiting under the severest penalties, the as-
semblies of Free Masons. No reason i.s assigned
by
- - ---JI'-- ~ -. - - - - ~- -·
Digitized by Gqp _£ ;a, -i"~~~
------- ,.__ _ ___ s.:. ~
'
FREE MASONRY.
by the·council for their conduct ; no charges are
advanced against any of the brethren. The
.council of Bern~ are terrified for secret associa-
tions; and, oo this account, for900th, they muat
persecute and destroy. More intolerant in their
bigotry, and more cruel in their conduct than
the church of Rome, they are not satisfied with
abolishing.all the lodges in the republic. Every
Free Mason in Switzerland must accuse himself
before the magistrates of the district. He must
reaounce his obligations to secrecy; and swear,
in the presence of the great God of .Hea.
ven, to trample upon those engagements which, ~
before the .same Being, he bas sworn to revere.
Such an instance of tyranny over the minds and
consciences of men, is a remarkable fact in the
history of a republic, where the reformed reli
gion has been protected frOm its infancy, and
where Free Masons had always conducted them~
selves with exemplary propriety*. The severe
treatment,. therefore, which th~y experienced,
must have originated in some private quarrel be..
tween the members of the council and the fra..
te~ity. It could be prompted by no patriotic
motive,
• Free Ma~nry aeems to have heen directly impOrted into
Switzerland from Great Britain ; as a deputation was granted
by the Grand Lodge of England, for erecting a Lodge at
Lausanne, in the canton of Berne, in the year 1 739· It
could not, therefore, in so short a time, be corrupted by
those offensive innovaticms whkh were ·superinduced upon· it
j,_ France.
Digitized by Google
-------------------~---------·-~--------------._~...
pa~-,
•
THE HISTORY OF
'
motive ; by no regard for the welfare of the state,
or the safety of individuals. But notwithstand-
ing these persecutions, Free Masonry was after-
wards revived in Switzerland, and practised with-
out molestation, though with less eagerness and
success than in the other States of Europe.
DURING these various persecutions of wh~ch we
have only given a general account, many indivi-
duals of the fraternity underwent the severest
treatment ; and, in their relief, that practical
benevolence was strongly exemplified which Free
Masons are taught to exhibit to the distressed
brethren of their order. In 1 739, after Pope Euge-
nius had issued his bull against Free Masonry, one
Crudeli, a Free Mason. was imprisoned at Florence
by the Inquisition,and suffered the most unmerited
cruelties for maintaining the innocence ofthe asso-
ciation. When the Grand Lodge of England was
informed of his miserable situation, they recol-
lected that a foreigner, however low his rank, and
however distant his abode, had a claim upon
their sympathy ;-they transmitted to him twenty
pounds for procuring the necessaries of life, and
exerted every nerve for effecting his liberation.
A brother confined at St Sebastians in Spain, ex-
perienced from the English Masons, the same at-
tention and generosity. At Lisbon, in the year
1742, James Mouton, a French artist, and John
Coustos, a native of Berne, in Switzerland, were
imprisoned by the bloody Inquisition.· They
were
o;9,tiz~d by Goo le
- - - - ___ .,_____ .
I
__j
~ -- .. - .
..- ---
FREll: MASONR'l'.
were accused of belonging to a society by which
sacrilege and sodomy were allowed ; and were
requested to discover to their persecutors, the
true design of Free Masonry. After defend-
ing the institution as useful and innocent, they
were extended on the rack, in expectation that a
confession would be extorted by its torments.
Force, however, had no controul over a m4ld
conscious of integrity. Coustos having main~
tained his innocence, after having been thrice
stretched on this instrument of agony, was, at last,
.sentenced to walk in the procession of the Auto de
Fe, and to serve in the gallies for four years. At
the instance of the English Masons, however,
. George II. authorised the British Minister at Lis-
bon, to demand, in his Majesty's name, from the
King ofPortugal, the liberation of Coustos; which
was granted in 1744, after a dreadful confinement
of two years and a half.
FRoM such scenes of inhuman barbarity, it is
pleasingtoturn toexamplesof realbenevolencea1_1d
generosity. As the consideration of these is always
, gratifying to a humane mind, they certainly de-
serve to be recorded ina History of Free Masonry.
In the year 1748, Monsieur Preverot, a gentleman
in the navy, and brother of the celebrated M.
freverot, doctor of medicine, in tJte faculty at
Paris, was unfortunately shipwrecked on an isl·
and, whose viceroy was a Free Mason. Along
With his ship, M. Preverot had lost all his money
R ana
......_ -:::f_ • - ~. - •...
, .
130 THE HISTORY OF
and effects. In this destitute condition, he present•
ed himself to the vicer-oy, and related his mis-
fortune in a mamier which completely proved
that he was no impostor. The viceroy made the
masonic signs, which being imtantly returned by
the Frenchman, they recognised and embraced
each other as brethren of the ·same order. M.
Preverot was conducted to the house of the vice-
roy, who furnished him with.all the comforts of
life, till a ship bound for France touched at the
island. Before his departure, in this vessel, the
viceroy loaded him with presents, and gave him
as much money as was necessary for carrying him
into his native country.
IN the battle af Dettingen, in 1743, one of
the king's guards having his horse killed under
him, was so entangled among its limbs that he
was unable to extricate himself. While he was.in
this situation, an English dragoon galloped up to
him, and, with his uplifted sabre, was about to
. deprive him of his life. The French soldier hav-
ing, with much difficulty, made the signs of ma-
sonry, the dragoon recognised him as a brother,
and not only saved his life, but freed him from
his dangerous situation. He was ma~e a priso-
ner by the English dragoon, who was well aware
that the ties of masonry cannot dissolve those of
patriotism.
IN the year 1749, Free Masonry was introdu-
ced
FREE MASONRY. 131
ced into Bohemia, and eagerly embraced by all
·the distinguished characters in the city of Prague.
They call themselves Scotish masons, and are re-
markably inquisitive into the characters of those
whom they admit into the order. On this ac-
count they perform, with punctuality, those du-
ties which they owe to th~ir brethren of the order, ·
as is strikingly exemplified in the following story.
A Scotish gentleman, in the Prussian service,
was taken prisoner at th.
e battle of Lutzen, and
was conveyed to Prague, along with four hun-
dred of his companions in .arms ; as soon as
it was known that he was a mason, he was re-
leas~d from confinement ; he was invited to the
tables of the most distinguished citizens; and re-
quested to consider himself as a Free Mason, and
not as a prisoner of war. About three months
after the engagement, an exchange of prisoners
took place, and the Scotish officer was presented,
by the fraternity, with a purse of sixty ducats, to
defray the expences of his journey*.
THE persecutions which Free Masonry encoun-
t~red were hitherto confined to the continent.
The tide of religious frenzy, however, now
rolled
• Several striking and curiou( instance~ of the extensh·e
benevolence of .Free Masons may be seen in Smith's Use and
Abuse of Free Masonry, pp. 374, 377, 378, &c.
Jtz
D1g1tized by Google
lJ2 THE HISTORY OF
rolled to the shores of Britain. In the year 1743, ·
the AssociateSynod,COQsistingofafew bigotteddis-
senters, attempted to disturb the peace of the fra-
ternity ; and had they been possessed of half
the power of the church of Rome, or the council
of Berne, their proceedings, prompted by equal fa-
naticism, would have been marked with the same
severitv; but, fortunately for the order, their power
extended only to the spiritual concerns of those
delinquents, who were of _the same sect with them-
selves. In the,beginning of the year I 74.'), an over-
ture was laid before the synod of Stirling, stating,
that many improper things were performed at the
initiation of masons, and requesting that the synod
wouldconsider,whether or not the membersof that
order were entitled to partake in the ordinances
of religion. The synod remitted this vverture to aH
the kirk-sessions under their inspection, allowing
them to act as they thought proper. In 1755, how,.
ever, they appointed all their kirk:sessions to ex-
amine every person who was suspected, to be a
Free Mason, and to demand an -explicit answer to
any question which they might ask, concerning the
administration of the mason oath. In the course
of these examinations, the kirk,.session discover-
·ed, (for they seem hitherto to have been ignorant
of it) that men, who were not architects, were ad-
mitted into the order. On this account the synod,
·in the year 1757, thought it necess3,ry to adopt
stricter J1leasures. They drew up a list of fool-
· 7 1·t ·ra!I ~- - -
. . h
lL
~ --
,
FREli: MASONRY. 133
ish ques.tions, which they appointed every kirk~
session to put to those under their charge. T~ese
questions related to what they thought were the
ceremonies of Free Masonry; and those who re·
fused to answer them were debarred from reli-
gious ordinances. The obj:!ct of these proceedings
was not, certainly, as is pretc.nded, to make the
abettors of the Associate Synod more holy and
upright, by detaching them from the fraternity.
This could have been effected without that spe~
cies of examination which they authorised. The ··
church of Rome were contented with dispersing
the fraternity, and receiving its repentant mem-
bers into their communion. The council of Berne
went no farther than abolishing the society, and
compelling the brethren to renounce their en.
gagements, lest these should.be inconsistent with
the. duties of citizens. But a synod of Scotish
dissenters, who cannot imitate, in these. points,
the church of Rome, and the council of Bei·ne,
must, forsooth, outstrip them in another. They
must compel the Free Masons of their congre.
gation to give them an account of those myste-
ries and cerentonies,. which their avarice and fear
hinder them from obtaining by regular initiation.
And what, pray, becomes of those perjured mcm
·from whom such information is obtained ? They
are promissed aqmission into the ordinances of r~­
ligion, as if they were now purified beings, from·
whom something worse than a demoniac had
been
Digitized by Google
THE HISTORY OF
been ejected. The criminality, may we not say,
the villany of such proceedings, should be held
up to the ridicule and detestation of the public *.
NoTWITHSTANDING these persecutions, Free
Masonry flourished, and was in the highest esti-
mation in Great Britain, france, Germany, and
several other kingdoms of Europe. In 1743,
it was' exported from Scotland to Denmark ;
and the lodge which was then instituted is now
the Grand Lodge of that kingdom. The same
prosperity has attended the first lodge in Swe-
-den, which was erected at Stockholm· in 1754,
under a patent from Scotland. In 1765, a
splendid apartment was erected at Marseilles,
for the accommodation of the brethren. It was
adorned with the ,finest paintings, representing
the most interesting scenes that occur in the his-
tory of the Old and New Testament, and cal-
culated to remind the spectator of his various du-
ties as a man, a subject, and a Christian. The
representation of Joseph and his brethren, of the
Samaritan and Jew, of Lot and the Angels, must
have reminded every brother of the beauty of
charity
• It is remarkable that the Grand Lodge of Scotland did
not deign to take the smallest notice of these proceedings·
.A paper, however, entitled An Impartial Examination of the
Act of the Associate Synod, written with great humour, and
acuteness of reasoning, appeared in the Edinburgh Magazine
ipr I 757. The Act of the Associate Synod was published iu
the Scots Magazine for the same year.
FREE MASONRY. 135
charity and forgiveness, which are the first prin-
ciples of masonry, as they are the first duties of
man. The picture of Peter and the Apostles
paying tribute to Cresar, must have recalled to
every individual his obligations as a citi1.en, to
revere and support the constituted authorities.
And the representation of Job in his misfortunes,
lifting up his hands to Heaven, must have forced
upon the minds of the most inconsiderate, this
important reflection-that fortitude and resigna-
tion to the will of God are the duties of all in dis-
tress, and that the Divine blessing will ultimately
attend those who bear, without murmuring, the
chastisements of their father, and preserve, amidst
the severest trials, their patience and virtue unim-
paired*. These observations, apparently trifling,
are important in one respect, as they show that the
French lodges bad not at that time fostered in
their bosom the votaries ofscepticism and disloyal-
ty. The other lodges in France were'at this time
numerous and magnificent. The Grand Lodge
contained about twenty offices, which were all
filled by noblemen of the highest rank. They
had provincial Grand-Masters similar to those of
Scotland, and the insignia and jewels of all those
office-bearers, were as rich and splendid as the
lodges where they assembled.
IN the year 1767, a lodge, under an English con-
stitution.
• For a farther account of.this building, see Smith's Use and
Abuse of Free Masoney, p. 165.
Digitized by Google
Tt-lE HISTORY OF
.
stitution, was established at Berlin, under the ap·
- pellation of Le Royale Ttirk, in honour of the Duke
of York, who was initiated into the fraternity by
that lodge while he was travellingon the continent.
In 1768, the Free Masons of Germany were au- -
thorised to hold their assemblies, by a charter
granted by the King of Prussia, the Elector of
.Saxony, and the Q2een of Hungary and Bohemia,
and afterwards ratified by the Emperor of Ger-
many himself. By another charter from Eng-
land, in I 769, a lodge was erected at Brunswick,
which, in I 770, became the Grand Lodge of that
part of Germany. Its Grand-Master was Prince
Ferdinand of Brunswick, who, a short time after,
received a provincial deputation from England,
for superintending the lodges in Lower Saxony.
In the year I773 a compact was entered into
between the Grand Lodge of England, under Lord
Petre, and the Grand Lodge at Berlin, w1der the
Prince of Hesse Darmstadt, \\:hich had a few
years before been duly erected into a Grand
Lodge, at a meeting of the masters and wardens
of twelve regular lodges. In this compact, it
was. stipulated, that the Grand Lodge of Berlin
should be acknowledged as the Grand Lodge of
the whole Empire of Germany, including the ,
dominions of his Prussian Majesty; that it should
exercise no masonic power out of the empire of
G~rmany, or within the district, under the au-
thority of the Grand Lodge of Brunswick; that
tbe Electorate of Hanover ~hou]d Lc free to both
.
the
• •,1
-~··~btC. qsl~---~,....
-
FREE MASONR.Y. ~37
tbe Grand Lodges in Germany ; and that the
contracting parties should unite their efforts to
counteract all innovations in masonry,.and parti-
cularly the proceedings ofa set of masons in Ber-
lin, who, under the denomination of Stricte Ob-
servantz, had annihilated their former constitu-
tions, erected themselves into a Grand Lodge,
~nd sanctioned very improper innovations, upon
the principles and ceremonies of tho fraternity.
This compact was highly approved of by the King
Cilf Prussia, who immediately erected the Grand
Lodge ofBerlin into a corporate body. In 1777,
the King of Prussia was Protector of all the ma-
sons in Germany. Ferdinand, Duke of Brunswick
.and Lunenburgh, was Grand-Mi.!ler of ·all the
united lodges in Germany ; and tP.e other offices
were filled by the most able and illustrious prin-
ces of the empire. Under the auspices of such
distinguished personages, and the jurisdiction of
the Grand Lodges of Berlin and Brunswick,Free
Masonry has flourished, to the present day, in that
extensive empire.
IN Gennany, Denmark, and Sweden, charity-
schools were erected by the lodges, for educating
the children of Free Masons, whose poverty de-
barred them from this advantage. lri that \x.·hich
was formed at Brunswick, they were instructed
even in classical learuing, and various branches
ofthe mathematics; and were regularly examined
by the Duke of Brunswick, who rewarded the
most deserving with suitable donations. At
·S Eisenach,
--........
THE HISTORY OF
.Eisenach, several seminaries of this- kind were
established. The teachers were endowed with
fixed salaries ; and, in a short time after their
institution, they had sent into ~he world 700
children, instructed in' the principles of science,
and the doctrines of Christianity. In 177I, an
establishment of a similar .kind was formed at
Cassel, in which the children were maintained
and educated, till they could provide for them-
selves. · In 1773, the united lodges of Dresden,
Leipsick, arid Gortit7o, erected at Frederickftadt a
seminary of learning for children, of every
denomination, in the Electorate of Saxony. Tpe
masonic subscriptions were so numerous, that the
funds of the institution were sufficient for its
maintenance; sad, in the space offive years, above
I 100 children received a liberal education. In
the same year, an extensive workhouse· was
erected at Prague in which the children were
not only initiated into the first principles of
learning, but into those branches of the useful
and fine arts which might qualify them for com-
mercial and agricultural situations. It. deserves
to be remarked, that the founders of these insti-
tutions, amid their anxiety for the public prospe-
rity, never neglected the spiritual interests of the
children. They saw that early piety is the foun-
dation ofall that is useful and honourable in life;
and that, wi~hout this, speculative knowledge
and practical skill are of little avai1.-How
inconsistent are such facts with those fabulous ac-
counts
Digitized by Google
COUntB .of the German lodges, which nave been
published. in England ·bya few party.:..men.
. '.1 ! ' .
W RILE tbe~e things.were going on in Germany;
dae bretln'en in Portugalwere exposedt.otheperse.
clitionofits bigotted rulers. MajorFrancois.d~Alin~
eourr,.a~renclunan~ndDonOyresde Omd:J:as fu8#
cao, a Pottugue5e nobleman,·were, rin:.i.766, ini;.
prisoned .by the Governor.of Madeira·fur. their at.;.
tachment :.to their order.· Being.,;afterwartb
carried to Litbon, they W:ere confined for faur...
teeri months, till they .~re released 'by the
generOllls i~tercess.ion :of the ·brethren in that
City. ·In the fo&wing year several Free:MasoiD
wtre confined at N-aple$, but ·aoon. libet1lted by
the intertession of foreign. princes, and the elo:.
4uence ofan Italian m.ocate.
N OTWITHSTANrirNG the persecutions which the
fraternity experienced in Holland, Fiee Masonry
was flourishing in that Tepuhlic iri rn9~ At
that time · a compact was entered into between
the Grand Lodge of Holland, held at the Hague,
and that of England. In ·this compact, it was
ttipulated· that the Grand Lodge of Holland
should be permitted to eiect lodges within ncr
territories, both at home and abroad, and to ap-
point provincial Grand-Masters over each ·dis-
tri-ct. In consequence of this acession of power
to the Grand Lodge of Holland, Free Masonry
flourished, under its auspices, in the Dutch set-
tlements in lntlia, Africa, and South America.
s ~ LET
•
...-.-··.....-
.. Digitized _
b
_
y Gooole
__;;:""·ii!iit-....;.;.._____ 0
THE HISTORY OF
. LET us.now direct our attention to a new secret
association which, about _this time, arose in Ger-
many, and which was imagined to have taken its
rise from Free ~onry, ·and to have planned a
diabolical conspiracy, against every religious and
political establishment in Europe. In I77S• the
order of .the Illum.inati was founded by I)octor
Adam Weishaupt, Profe&sOr of Canon Law in the
university. of Ingolstadt. In thi; assoq_iation spe-
culative opinions were jnculcated, which were
certainly inconsistent witl~ the principles of sound
religi~n, and social order, But that llluminism
originated·from Free Masonry; that it brough~
abput,the French Revolution, or even planned
~ny dangerous conspiracy, atd circumstances for
.which the shadow of a proof h·as not yet·been ad,.
duced. Dr Robison, indeed, expressly affirms,
that illuminism " took its rise among the Free
Masons, but was totally different from Free Ma-
sonry;" and, by a 4ece~tful anachronis~Jl, he re-
prese~ts Weishaqpt as an active member in the
German Lodges, before lle acquaints his readers
that he was the founder of the llluminat,, for no
other reason than to mak~ them believe, that
Weishaupt was a Free Mason before he planned
his new association •. Now the case was very
different inde~d. Barruel himself asserts, " that it
js a fact demonstrated beyond a doubt, that
Weishaupt became a Mason in I 777 only; and
that two years before this, when he established
Illuminism,
• J»roofs of a Conspiracy, Introduction, p. xv. and p. ~ox,
·'
·-""
..
nlEE MASONa.Y.
llluminism, he \vas totally unacquainte4 with the
mysteries of Free Masonry~." . Here, then, is
an imp<?rtant fact which strikes:at the roOt: of aU
Dr 1~.'obison's. reasoning, against Free ·Masonry.
Barruel maintains, that Weisl:iaupt W!lS not·a ma-
son till two years after the. organii.ation of his
new institution ; and Dr Robison allows,:'tbilt. il-
luminism was totally 4ifferellt from·Free Mason-
ry. The two institutions, ~berefore, were totally
.unconnected.;: -for the membeJis of the one·were
never admitt~d into the lodges of the other;:with-
out being regularly initiated into the mysteries of
both. Upon these simple facts we would arrest
the attention of every reader, and those·in parti-
cular who have been swincijed. out of their senses,
by the united exertions of a priest and a pbilo-
.sopher. · · · ·
') ::. :.'
Ant&. Weishaupt badorganized his institution;
-be exerted every nerve to disseminate its .princi-
ples. For this purpose he became a Free Mason
in: 1777; and, by means ofemissaries, he attempt-
ed to circulate his opinions among the French and
German lodges. In these attempts, indeed, he
was sometimes successful. But it shduld be re-
collected by those who, on this account, calumni-
ate Free Masonry, that the same objection may
be urged against Christianity, because impostors
have sometimes gained proselytes, and perverted
the wavering minds of the multitude. These doc-
trines,
• Memoirs of Jacobinism, Part III. Preliminary Observa~
~ons, p. xv. and P• 12.
Digitized by Google
•.
'IBE HISTORY OIF
trines, however, were not merely circulated by
Weishaupt in afew()f ~he lodges, and taught at the
nemblies ofthe:llluminati. They were published
to the world in the most fascinating fo~ by t1te
French Encyclopedists; and inculcated in all the
eloquence, with which some of the most celebra-
ted· philosophers, on the continent, could adorn
them. It cau ooly •
be said of Weishaupt, there-
fure, that he was IWit just such a determined infi-
del as:Voltaire and.ia1s associates.-Such is a hort
and, ·it is hoped, an impartial view, of the origin ·
and progress of tbe -Illuminati. It may be now
proper to attend to the causes from which this
association arose, and the advantages and disad.
ftlltages which it.may have engendered.
-
About the middle of the eighteenth century,
the literati on the continent were divided into
~o great parties. The one may be, considered
as Ex:Jesuits, or adherents to the catholic super~
atition, who were promoters of political and reli·
gious despotism, and inculcated .the doctrines of
non-resistance and passive obedience. The other
pal\y was composed of men, who were friends to
.the refoi."'Ded religion, enemies of superstition·and
fanaticism, and supporters of the absurd doctrine
()f the infinite pertectibility of the human mind.
They were dissatisfied with that slavery which was
imposed by the despotism of the continental
rulers, and the superstition of the church of
Rome ; and many of them entertained opinions
adverse to the Christian religion, and to every
existing
..
_,;~-::~·....
. ~-
-":_
.~
...- - - -
~ - - - .-
.- - - -
FR.EK MASONilT. 143
existingfonn ·of government. Between thesetwo
parties there was a perpetual struggle for power.
The Ex-Jesuits accused their opponents as heretics
and promoters ofjacobinism and infidelity; while
the others were constantly exposing the intrigues
of priests, and the tyranny ofdespots. To this
latter class belonged Weisbaupt and hisassociates,
who instituted tho order of the illuminati for no
other purpose, than to oppose those conupted
priests, who would hne degraded them as Ch~
tians, and those tyrannical despots who have en~
slaved them as citit.ens. The collision of these
parties was certainly productive of tbe greatest
advantages. While the Jesuits restrained the in-
clination of one part of the community, to over-
rate the dignity of the human mind, and antici-
pate ideal visions of religious and political perfec-
tion; the IDuminat.i counteracted those gloomy
opinions which debase the dignity of our nature,
which check the energies of the mind, and im..
pose the most galling yoke of religious and poli.
tical servitude. · Both these parties were, without
doubt, deserving of blame. But had any of the~
prevailed, the triumph of the Illuminati would
· certainly have been most desirable. As a Chris-
ti.n,-1 would glory in the downfal of that Papal
hierarchy which has so long deluded and enslaved
the world. As a man,-I would rejoice a~ the over-
throw of every throne which is raised upon the
ruins of <;ivil liberty and domestic happiness; and
as a Briton,-! would wish that all my brethren of
mankind should enjoy those religious and political
· privilege~.
Digitized by Google
THE HISTORY OFt
privileges, which have so long been the boast of
.our friends, and the·envy of our foes.
AFTER the French revolutiont which, as Mou-
nier has well shown, arose from other causes than
those to which Barruel and Robison.ascribe it, the
plansoft}lesepartieswerenotcarriedoninGermany
so systematically as before; and, notwithstanding .
. the fabrications with which the Jesuitical Barruel
has calumniated the lodges in that country, Free
Masonry prevails to this day, r~pected by the
most virtuous and -scientitic members of the com-
munity, and patronized by the most distinguish-
ed princes of the Empire.
lN Germany, the qualifications for a Free Ma-
son are great and numerous. No person is initi-
ated into the order without the consent of every
member of the lodge; and it 'frequently happens,
that a German even is excluded by a single dis-
senting voice. On this account, the lodges of
that country are filled with persons of the first rank
and respectability; and every thing is conducted
with the greatest decorum and solemnity. As
masonry is there held in the highest estimation,
an Englishman will obtain an easier introdij.ction
to the chief nobility and literati of Germany in
a mason lodge, than in any other place; and will
never repent of havmg been initiated into the
order in his native country*.
AFTER
• Dr Render's Tour through Germany, Introduction to vol. 1,
pp. 30, 33· Dr Render maintaift5, that Free Masonryhu greatly
-----=----,.....-------"'11
,FREE MASONRY. 145 .
AFTEJt. the publication of the works of Bar-
\'uel and Robison, the progress of Free Mason-
ry in Britain was retarded by an act of Parlia-
ment in 1799• for the suppression of seditious so-
cieties, in which the fraternity were vir.tually pro-
hibited from erecting new lodges iri the kingdom.
But this act was not prompted by the calum-
nies ~f these writers. It became necessary from
the political condition of the kingdom; and the
exceptions which it contained in favour of Free
Masons, are a complete proofthat government ne-
ver credited the reports of these alarmists; but
placed the most' implicit confidence in the loyalty
and prudence of British masons. Dr Robison,
indeed, asserts, that the emissaries of corrupted
Free Masonry, and illuminism, were lurking in
the British empire, and plotting its destruction.
But such monsters of iniquity have never yet
been discovered within the circuit of our island;
they have never polluted the British lod~es. Tell
us then no more, that our lodges are the re-
cep~acles of sacrilegious and revolutionary mis-
creants.-! see them frequented by men of un-
affected piety, and undaunted patriotism. Tell
us no more, that our brethren of the order are
less holy and virtuous than the uninitiated vul-
gar.-
. I see them in the church and jp the senate,
defending, by their talents, the doctrines of our .
r~ligion, and e~emplifying in their conduct the
precepts
improved the mannen and dispositions of the Germans. See
fpl, ii. p. 200. note.
[z S]
'n rw
'
•
TH.E HISTORY OF
'
precept-; it enjoins, kind to their friends, forgiving
to their enemies, and benevolent to all. Tell ut
no more that they are traitors, or ·indifferent to
the welfare of their country.-I see them in the
hour of danger rallying around the throne of our
.king, and proffering, for his safety, their hearts
and theif arms.-1 see them in the form ofheroes,
at the head of our fleets and our armies; and the
day will arrive when a Free Mason shall sway the
sceptre of these kingdoms, and fill, with honour
and with dignity, the British throne•
•
0--0--0--
THE
"'
THE
HISTORY
/
OF THE
GRAND LODGE
OF
SCOTLAND.
W E have already brought down 'the his•
tory of Scotish Masonry to the institu-.
tion of the Grand Lodge in 1736, and given
a short account of the different circumstances
which occasioned and accompanied that impor-
tant event. It is necessary, however, before en..
tering upon the History of the Grand Lodge, to
give a fuller detail of the proceedings of the fra..
ternity at the time of its institution, than could
be admitted into a general history of the order.
Ann William Sinclair, Esq. of Roslin, had
pointed out to the Edinburgh lodges, the benefi-
T cial
Digitized by Google
~- ..--..""'-...·-
THE HISTOJlY OF
cial effects which would accrue to the fraternity,
by having a nobleman or gentleman of their own
choice as Grand-Master of Scotland, he offered
to resign into the hands of the brethren his he-
reditary title to that honourable office. In con-
sequence of Mr Sinclair's representation, the fol-
lowing circular letter was transmitted to all the
lodges in Scotland, requesting them to appear on
next St Andrew's day, by themselves or proxies,
in order to concur in th~ election of a'Grand-
Master ; a scheme so useful to the craft, and so
advantageous to the kingdom.
" BRETHREN,
" THE four lodges in and about Edinburgh, hav-
" ing taken into their serious consideration, the
" great loss that masonryhas sustained through the
" want of a Grand-Master, authorised us to signify
" toyo'if, our good and worthybrethren,ourhearty
., desire and firm attention, to choose a Grand-
" Master for Scotland; and, in order that the same
" may be done with the greatest harmony, we
" hereby invite you (as we haTe done all the
" other regular lodges known by us) to concur
" in such a great and good work, whereby it is
" hoped masonry may be restored to its ancient
., lustre in this kingdom : And, for effectuating
" this laudable design, we humbly desire, that,
" betwixt this and Martinmas day next, you will
" be pleased to give us a brotherly answer, in rela-
" tion to the election of a Grand-Master, which
'
" wcr
Digitized by G ogle
.....
It
.FRJtE MASONR.Y. 147
" we propose to be on St Andrew's day for the
" first time, and ever thereafter to be on St John
" the Baptist's day, or as the Grand Lodge shall
" appoint by the.majority of voices, which are to
" be collected from the masters and wardens of
" all the regular lodges then present, or by proxy·
" to any master-mason or fellow craft in any
" lodge in Scotland ; and the election is to
" be in- Mary's Chapel. All that is hereby pro-
~' posed is for the advancement and prosperity
" of masonry, in its greatest and most charitable
" perfection. We hope and expect a suitable re-
" turn; wherein if any lodges are defective, they
" have themselves only to blame. We heartily
." wish you all manner of success arul prosperity,
" and ever are, with great respect, your affection-
" ate and lo'riDg brethren, &c."
WREN the day arrived which was appointed
for the election of the Grand-Master, and other
oftice-bearers of the Grand Lodge; the following.
lodges appeared by themselves or pr?xies.
Mary'B Chape~
Kihvinning,
Canongatc Kilwinning,
Kilwinning Scotch Arms,
Kilwinning Leith,
Kilwinning Glasgow,
CupaT of Fife,
Linlithgow,
Dunfermline,
Strathaven,
Hamilton,
Lanark,
Dunse,
Kirkaldy,
JourneymenMasonsEdinburgh,
Kirkintilloch,
BiggaT,
SanquhaT,
Di!ndee,
Tz
Digitized by Google
---
THE HISTORY OF
Dundee,
Dalk.eith,
Aitcheson's haven,
Selkirk,
Inverness,
Lesmabagee,
St Bride's at Douglas,
Peebles,
Glasgow, St Mungo's,
Greeaock,
Falkirk,
Aberdeen,
Canongate and Leith, Leith
and Canongate,
Montrose,
THE Grand Lodge being met, and the rolls cal-
led over, the following resignation of the office
of hereciitary Grand-Master was given in by Wil~
liam ~nclair, Esq. of Roslin.
" I WILLIAM ST CLAIR of Roslin, Esq. taking
" into my consideration that the masons in Scot~
" land did, by several deeds, constitute and ap-
" point William and Sir William St Clairs of
., Roslin, my ancestors, and their heirs, to be
" their patrons, protectors, judges or masters ;
" and that my holding or claiming any such ju-
" risdiction, right, or privilege, might be preju-
" dicial to the craft and vocation of masonry,
" whereof I am a member, and I being desirous
" to advance and promote the good and utility
" of the said craft of masonry, to the utmost of
" my power, do therefore hereby, for me and my
" heirs, renounce, quit, claim, overgive, and dis-
" charge all right, claim, or pretence that I, or
" my heirs, had, have, or any ways may have,
" pretend to, or claim, to be patron, protector,
•' judge, or master of the masons in Scotland, in
,-
-
" virtu~
.
.........~~iillii.\~
~
OW.
"-illlj~~·ilill
!.l
•.
.'........
-IIW
· -dill ··anlit vv- -
~ - -- -- - ··-------~ ---- - -
FREE MASONRY.
, " virtue of any deed or deeds made and granted
" by the said masons, or of any grant or charter
" made by any of the Kings of Scotland,'to and
," in favours of the said William and Sir William
" St Clairs of ·Roslin, my predecessors; or any
" other manner of way whatsoever, for now
" aHd ever: And I bind and oblige me, and my
" heirs, to wamind this present renunciation and
" discharge at all hands : And I consent to the
" registration hereof in the books of Council and
" Session, or any other judges' books competent,
" therejn to remain for pres~rvation; and thereto
" 1 constitute
" my procura-
" tors, 8tc. In witness whereof I have subscrib-
" ed these presents .(written by David .Maul,
" Writer to the Signet) at Edinburgh, the twen-
·~ ty-fourth day of November, one thousand seven
" hundred and thirty-six years, before these wit-
" nesses, George Frazer, deputy-auditor of the
~' Excise in Scotland, Il)aster of the Canongate
" lodge, and William Montg.omery, merchant in
'' Leith, master of the Leith lodge,
,, w. ST CLAIR.
" Geo. Fraser, Canongate K~lwinning, witneu.
" Wm. Montgomery, Leith Kilwinning~ witneu."
AFTER this resignation was read, and ordered
to be preserved in the records_
of the Grand Lodge,
the
Digitized by Goo le .J
-------
THE BlSTOllY OF
the brethren proceeded to the electiOn of a Grand-
Master. To this high office, William St Clair,
Esq. ~ Roslin, was unanimously chosen, in con-
sideration of the nobility and antiquity of his fa-
mily, of his zeal for the advancement of the or-
der, and the peculiar connection of his ancestors
with the Masonic History of Scotland. Let us
now proceed to the History of the Grand Lodge
itself.
L GRAND ELECTION, N()fJ. 30. 1736.
W'illiam St Clair of Roslin, Esq. Grand-Masttr.
Captain John Young, Dtpfi/J GrantJ..MIUttr.
Sir W. Baillie of Lamington, Stlliw Grt~nd-Wartlm.
Sir Alex. Hope of Kerse, Juniw Grenul-Warrlm.
Dr John Moncrief, GranJ-Trtasurtr.
John Macdougall, Esq. Grand-St&rdary.
Mr Robert Alison, Gralfd-Citrl.
THE Grand Lodge having ordained that a fe~
should be exacted from every person who w~
initiated into the order, since the institution of
the Grand Lodge, or who might afterwards be
initiated, and that this fee should make a part of
the charity fund for the relief of the indigent
and distressed brethren ; the Kilwinning lodge
petitioned that this fee should not be demanded
from the operative masons, many of whom found
it difficult enough to advance the dues to their
respec-
~ '
0 .-~·- ~-----.,: - -_....
o;q,tized by Googls;. ......-.
J'I.D MASONRY.
respective lodges. Tbil request of the Kilwinning
masons, laowever, was rejected; and the Grand
Lodge ,decreed, that those who refused or neglect.
ed to pay the entry-money, should receive no aid
f'rom the ebarity fund.
THE opulent inhabitants of Edinburgh and its
environs, having resolved to erect an infirmary or
hospital, for the reception of poor patients who
were unable to procure for themselves medical
assistance, tbe Grand Lodge proposed to pay,
out of their own funds, a certain number of oper-
ative masons to assiat in building the infirmary,
provided that the managers of that institution
would allot a particular apartment in the hos-
pital, for the reception of a few infirm masons,
who should pe recommended by the Grand-Mas-
ter. Circular letters we~ immediately dispatched
to all the lodges in Scotland, requestiug their
cottcurrence in such a humane and .useful pro-
posal.
UPON the institution of tHe Grand Lodge, it
became necessary that all the lodges who ac-
knowledged its authority, should receive a rati-
fication or confirmation of their former constitu-
tion. In consequence of this, almost all tha
Scotish lodges applied for new c;:onstitutions, and,
by a ready and voluntary renunciation of their
former rights, evinced the steadiness of their at-
tach-
--.Dig1tized.by Google
~--............__
_
THE HISTOllY OF
tachment to the Grand Lodge of Scotland, and
tbeit unfeigned acknowledgments of its jurisdic-
tion and power.
lT bad long been customary among the frater-
nity to bold their principal assemblies on the 24th
of June, the birth day of St John the Baptist;
for many weighty reasons, however' it was re-
solved by the Grand Lodge, that. the annual
election should no longer be celebrated on that
day, and that, for the future, it should be held on
the 30th of November, the birth-day of St An-
drew, the tutelar Saint of Scotland.
II. GRAND ELECTION, Nov. 30. 1737·
George Earl of Cromarty, Grant!-Mastw.
Captain John Young, Dtput1 Grant!-M111tw.
Dr William Congalton, 8mior Grant!-Wardm. '
Dr Charles Alston, Juniw Grand-lYardm.
Thomas Mylne, Esq. Grant!-Tre111urw.
John Macdougall, Esq. Grantl-&crd"'7·
Mr Robert Alison, Gnmd-Ciwl.
IN the c'ourse of this year, it was resolved, that
all the lodges, which held of the Grand Lodge of
Scotland, should be enrolled according to their
seniorities; that this should be determined from
the authentic documents which they produced ; -
and
I
FREE MASONRY. 153
and that those who produced no vouchers should
be put at the end of the roll.
THE benevolence and liberality of the different
lodges were amply displayed by their generous
, donations for the building of the Royal Infirma-
ry ; and that particular attachment to the bre-
thren of the order, which, by the principles ofFree
Masonry, they are bound to cherish, was also ex-
emplified in their eager exertions to procure an
apartment of the Hospital for distressed masons,
who, from the very nature of their. profession,
are more exposed to accidents than any other
class of labourers.
A LETTER was received by the Grand Lodge.
from George Drummond, Esq. one of the Com-
missioners of Excise, and President of the Mana-
gers of the Royal Infirmary, informing them,
that the foundation stone of the Hospital was to
be laid on the second of August 1738, between
three and four in the afternoon, and requesting
the presence of the Grand-Master and his bre-
thren, to give their countenance and assistance to
the undertaking. With this request the Grand
Lodge unanimously complied.
ON the 2d of August 1738, between three and
four o'clock in the afternoon, the foundation-
.stone of the New Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh
was laid in the following manner.
THE
u
--- Digitized by G'oogle
- --
- --"":"" - ._~
-.=- ..:.--·
- - ---~
I 54 THE HISTORY OF
THE Lord Provost, Magistrates, and Town
Council, preceded by the city officers and
mace, walked in procession, from the council-
chamber, to the ground where the foundation
was dug. Immediately after tbem came the Free
and Accepted Masons, in their proper cloathing
and jewels, after the following order.
THE Tylers of the several lodges of Edin-
burgh and its neighbourhood.
SucH Brethren as did not belong to the Grand
Lodge, walking by threes.
THE Lodges as they stand enrolled; the young-
est walking first, by threes; the Master being
supported by the Wardens.
THE Officers of the Grand Lodge.
THE Nine Stewards, by threes.
THE Secretary, with his Clerks.
THE Treasurer, with his Purse.
THE Grand Wardens.
THE Grand Master, attended by those Bre-
thren of distinction who did not represent any
particular lodge. The President and College of
Physicians walked in procession from their own
Hall~ The Surgeons from their Hall; and, along
with them, several of the Lords of Session; the
Dean, and many of the Faculty of Advocates;
the Writers to the Signet; the Presbytery of
Edinburgh; several of the Incorporations, and 1\
great
Digitized by Google
~ ----~~-~~~~--------~-~--------------....M
-=.:.- .. ·.· ~ -dl
FREE MASONRY.
great number of persons of quality and distinc-
tion.
vVHEN the company came to the ground, the
Grand-Master, and his brethren of the free and
accepted Masons, surrounded the plan of the
foundation hand in hand; and the Grand Mas-
ter-Mason, along with the Preses of the Ma-
nagers of the Royal Infirmary, having come
to the east corner of the foundation where the
stone was to be laid, placed the same in "its bed ;
and after the Right Honourable the Lord P.r~
vost had laid a medal under it, each in their turns
gave three strokes upon the stone with an iron
mallet, which was succeeded by three clarions of
the trumpet, three huzzas, and three claps of
hands.
SEVERAL soc1ettes, and persons of condition,
made large contr~butions, upon this occasion, for
carrying on tbe work. Many .
gentlemen, and
proprietors of stone-quarries, made presents of
stones and lime. Me.rcba.n.ts .gave considerable
parcels .
.of timber. The £anners in the ne~h­
bourhood agreed to carey all tile materials gra-
tis. The journeymen masons furnished each a
certain quantity of hewn stone'>. And, as this
undertaking was ror the relief of the diseased,
lame, and maime~ poor, even t:be common la-
bourers agreed to work a day in each montb gra..
tis: 86 m·uch mooey was raised by voluntary
u 2 convibution
oi9,tizect by Google
___,.- -
----
'fHlt HISTORY OF
contribution as to carry on this useful and neces-
sary work ; and there appeared such· a spirit in
persons of all ranks to encourage it, that they
expected to finish the building withO\lt the least
encr~achment upon the capital stock.
AFTER the ceremony was over, the Magis-
trates, atten~ed by a great many of the com-
pany, returned to the borough-room, where
many loyal and appropriate toasts and senti-
ments were given. A numerous and splendid
Ass~mbly, in the evening, for the benefit of the
Royal Infirmary, crowned the festivity of the
day.
III. GRAND ELECTION, NOfJ. 30. 1738~
Jphn Earl of Kintore, qrand-Masttr.
Captain John Young, Dtputy Grand-.Masttr.
John Douglas, Esq. Substitute Grand-Master:
Patrick Lindsay, Esq. Stnior Grand-Wardm.
George Drummond, Esq. Junior GranJ-Warden.
Thomas Mylne, Esq. Grand-Treasurer.
John Macdougall, Esq. Grand-Secretary.
Mr Robert Alisop, Grqnd Cltrf.
IT was reported to the Grand Lodge by Ge~rge
Drummond, Esq. one of the managers of the
Royal Infirmary, that the directors of that insti-
tution, out of gratitude to the society of Free
Masons, for their countenance and aid in build-
ing
rr a
FJt,EE MASONRY. 151
ing the Royal Infirmary, had unanimously agreed,
that preference should always be given to distres-
sed and infirm Free Masons in one of the galle..
ries of the Hospital.
SINCE the institution of the Grand Lodge, the
principles of the craft had been so rapidly pro-
pagated through every part of the kingdom, that
it was found necessary to appoint provincial Grand
l\fasters over particular districts, who were em-
powered to hold gen~~ meetings, and to take
cognizance of every thing relating to masonry,
within the bou11ds of their district. In conse-
quence of this resolution, Alexander Drummond,
Esq. Master of Greenock K.ilwinning, was ap-
poin,ted provincial Grand-Master ov~r the lodges
in the western counties of Scotland;· Although
this was the first appointment to that office since
the institution of the Grand Lodge, yet there
was an office of the same kind during the reiga
of James VI. of Scotland, as we have already stat~
~d in the General History*. ·
IV. GRAND
-~
It ~page 101, supra.
Digitized by Google
THE HISTORY OF
IV. GRAND ELECTION, Nov. 30. 1739·
James Earl of Morton, Grand-mt!fl~r.
Captain John Young, Deputy Grand-A-!ast~r.
John Douglas, Esq. SubJtiJute Grand-Ma~tu.
Henry Lord Cardrofs, Senior Grand-Warden.
Archibald Macaulay, Esq. J~~nior Grand-Warden• .
Thomas Mylne, Esq. Grsnd-TreaJuru.
Jphn MacdougaH, Esq. Grand S«rttary.
Mr Robert Alison, Grani-Ciul.
Ir has been frequently and justly remarked,
that those philosophers who speculate most upon
universal benevolence, have been proportionably
deficient in bringing it into action. This accu-
sation, also, bas been keenly Ull;ed against the
· abettors of Free Masonry, who are bouod at their
mitiation to relieve the distresses, and supply the
~-ants of their brethren of the order. It is pro-
per, therefore, to do justice to the fraternity, by
recording every extraordinary act of practical
benevolence, which has been performed by the
Grand Lodge of Scotland. The son of an opera-
tive mason in Edinburgh having been left, at his
father's death, in the most friendless and indigent
condition, was recommended to the patronage of
the Grand Lodge. With a readiness which en-.
!.anced the value of the action, they agreed to
take him under their own charge; to bind him
to an operative mason for eight years, for the
freedom
Digitized by Google._.:. -;..
- :=zas flALii
' FREE MASONRY. 159
freedom of St Mary's chapel, and, during that
time, to furnish him with clothes and other ne-
cessaries. It was agreed also, that, if any simi-
lar applications were made, the same action should
be petformed every three years.
THE managers of tlie Royal Infirmary request:.
ed the company of the Grand Lodge, together
with those of the city lodges, at the laying of the
foundation stone of the western wing of the In-
firmary, on the 14th May 1740; which was una-
nimously agreed to.
WHEN that day arrived, the Right Honourable
. the Grand-Master, attended by his Grand-War-
dens, treasurer and secretary, and by the offiee-
bearers of the other lodges, and several brethren
of distinction, went in procession from Mary's
chapel, to the Royal Infirmary, preceded by
trumpets and other instruments of music, where
the foundation stone of the western part of the
building was laid with the usual solemnities.
IN the course of this year, a present of ten.
pounds Sterling was paid into the charity fund
of the Grand Lodge, by the Earl of Kintore.
V.GRAND
· ·~ - --~
, Digitized by<:;;oogle
I6o THE HISTORY or
V. GRAND ELECTION, Dtc. 1. 1740.
Thomas Earl of Strathmore, Grand-Masttr.
Captain John Young, Dtputy Grand-Masttr.
John Douglas, Esq. Substitutt Grand-MtJJttr.
Captain A. Forbes of Pittencrief, Stnior Grand-Ward~H.
David Kennedy, Esq. Advocate, Juniw Grand-Wartkn.
Thomas Mylne, Esq. Grand-Trtasurtr.
John Macdougall, Esq. Grand-Stcrrlary.
Mr Robert Alison, Grand-Citrl.
DuRING this year it was proposed, and unani-
mously agreed to, that a correspondence should
·be opened between the Grand Lodge of Scotland
and England, and that the assistance of the latter,
in building the Royal Infirmary, should be par-
ticularly requested.
A DONATION of ten guineas, each, was given by
the Earls of Cromarty and Morton, late Grand-
Masters of Scotland, into the charity fund of the
Grand Lodge. It is but justice to those illustri-
ous characters who have honoured Free Masonry
with their patronage, to show to the world that
their pretensions to charity have not evaporated
in empty professions.
VI. GRA~D
Digitized by Googk pd
~--
--.---...-, .- -=- - - - -- - ____._,.,.., __
FREE MASONRY.
VI. GRAND ELECTION, Nofl. 30. 1741.
Alexander Earl of Leven, Grand-Master.
Captain John·Young, Dtputy Grand-MIJiter.
John Douglas, Esq. Sulutitutt Grand-Master.
Sir Andrew. Mitchell,. &nior Graf1d-Wardtn.
Ja,mes Colquhoun Esq. Junior Grllnd•Wardtn• .
'fhomas Mylne, Esq. Grand-Trta.rurtr.
John Macdougall, .Esq. Grand-&t:rttary,
Mr Robert Alison, Grand-Citr!.
161
IN the course of this year, nothing of conse-
quence occurred. Many· charters and constitu-
tions were granted; and distressed brethren of
all descriptions were relieved from the fund of
charity.
A PRESENT of teo pounds was given by the Earl
of Strathmore, late Grand-Master for the relief
of inqigent brethren.
VII. GRAND ELECTION, NOfJ. 30. 1742.
William Earl of Kilmarnock, Grand-Ma.rter.
Captain John Young, Dtputy Grand-Ma.rttr.
John Douglas, Esq. Suhstitutt Grand-MIJiter.
Sir Robert Dickson of Carberry, Senior Grand-Warden.
Sir John Scott of Ancrum, ,Junior Grand-Wardm.
Thomas Mylne, Esq. Grand-Trta.rurer.
John Macdougall, Esq. Grand-Secrttary.
Mr Robert Alison, Grand-Citrl.
No events ·of importance occurred during this
year.
X VITI. GRAND
Digitized by Google
_ _ ,.c._ __ .... _ -~ -
UIE HISTORY Of:
VIII. GRAND ELECTION, Nov. 30. 1743·
James Earl of W emyss, Grrmtl-Madw.
Captain John Young, IhputJ Granti-Mastw.
John Douglas, Esq. Wstitutt GranJ-MMtrr.
William Nisbet of Dirleton, Estt• Btrriot' Grtttttl•,.•rtlnr.
John Murray of Broughton, Esq. y.,;,. Gr•lld•TYllrtlnr.
Thomas Mylne, Esq. Gmntf.Trto111rw.
John Macdougall, Esq. Grtmtl-&NY~ary.
Mr Robert Alison, Grand-Citrle.
A LETTER was read from the lodge of Kilwin-
ning, complaining, that they were only second
on tlJe roll, while, as the mother lodge of' Scot-
land, they were entitled to the first place. The
Grand Lodge decreed, that as the lodge of Kil-·
winning had produced no documents to show
that they were the oldest lodge in Scotland, and
as the lodge of Mary's Chapel bad shown their
records as far back as 1598, the latter had an un-
doubted right to continue first on the roll.
THE conduct of the Grand Lodge in this affair,
by no means contradicts \\•hat has been said in
the general history, respecting the antiquity of
. the Kilwinning lodge. It was well known, ttnd
universally admitted, that Kilwinning was the
birth place of Scotish masonry. But as the re-
cords of the original lodge were lost, the present
Jod&e at Kilwinnioi could net prove that theirs
W&l\
. . 5"' --- ~ - ---
Digitized by Google
--- ---- -------
- - sa osc:;:;zu
FREE MASONRY•
.
was the identical lodge which had first practised
Free Masonry in Scotland.
IX. GRAND ELECTION, Nov. 30. 1744·
James Earl of M«af, GrlltUl-Mastw.
Capt:Un John T oung, Ih;Mt1 Grantl-Mastw.
John Douglas, Esq. Sulutitutt Grand-Mastw. ·
John Robertson of Eamock, Esq. Smiw Grand-Wal'dtn.
Thomat AHan, Esq. JuniQr Grand-Wa,-dtn.
Thomas Mylne, Esq. G,-and-Trtasurw.
John NacclougaH, Esq. Grand-S~&rltor,.
M~ Robert AJ~ G,-IIIJd.C!Hi.
NoTHIMG worthy of notice occurred during this
year. A donation of twelve guineas was giveq
by the Earl of Moray, present Grand-Master; and
the same sum by the Earl of Wemyss into the
charity fund.
X. GRAND ELECTION, Nov. 30. 1745.
Henry David Earl of Buehan, Gra11d-Ma.rttr'.
Captain John Young, Dtputy Grand-Masttr'.
John Douglaa, Esq. Bu!stitutt GranJ-Mastw.
Alexander Tait, Esq. imiw Gr4nJ-.1Yartk11.
John BroWD, Esq. Jumor G,-antt.W",-tkn.
Thomas Mylne, Eeq, GriJIUI-Treasur~l'.
John MacdougaH, Esq. Grantt.Sin-etary.
Mr Robert Alison, Grand-C/erl,
Xz
Digitized by Google
THE MSTORY OF
. In the course of this year it wa!lll!feported to
the Grand Lodge, that the managers of the Royal
Infirmary had appointed a particular apartment
of the Hospital, for the reception of such infirm.
Free Masons as should be recommended by the
Grand-Master, and another for such distressed
brethren as should be recommended by the So~
ciety of Journeymen Masons in Edinburgh.
XI. GRAND ELECTION, ·I. DN. 1746.
William Nisbet, Esq. of Dirleton, Grand-Mastrr.
Major John Young, Dtputy Grand-M,asttr•.
John Douglas, Esq. Substitutt Grand-Masttr.
Francis Charters, Esq. of Amisfield, &n. Grand-Wardm.
Andrew Hay, Esq. Junior Grand-Wardm.
Thomas Mylne, Esq. Grand-Trrasurrr.
John Macdougall, Esq. Grand-Stcrttary.
Mr Robert Alison, Grand-CirrJ:.
N ~ events of importance happened during this
.year.
XII. GRAND ELECTION, NOfJ. 30. 1747.
Francis Charters, Esq. of Amisfield, Grand-Masttr.
ftfajor John Young, Dtputy Grand..Masltr.
John Douglas, Esq. SuJ.rtitult Grand-Masttr.
Deacon Samuel N~lson, Stn~r Grand-Wardtn.
John StClair, Esq. Junior Grand-Wardm.
Thomas Mylne, Esq. Grand-Trrasurtr.
John Macdougall, Esq. Grand-Srcrttary.
~lr ~Qbert Alison, Grand-CitrA:.
Digitized by Google ·
FREE MASONRY,
·AT th~~iversary meeti.ng of the Grand
Lodge, it was stated by the Right Honourable
the Lord Provost of Edinburgh, that his brother;
Alexander Drummond, Esq., late Master of Gree-
nock Kilwinning, and provincial Grand-Master of
the west of Scotland, having taken up his residence
at Alexandretta in Turkey, had erected several
mason lodges in that part of the country; and, aa
he was anxious still farther to diffuse the principles
of the fraternity,he begged that .the Grand Lodge
would grant him a provincial commission, The
Grand Lodge 'having takenthi~ petition into their
consideration, u·nanimously granted·his request,
and gave full power to him, and any other whom
_ he might nommate, to constitute lodges in any
part of Europe or Asia, bordering on the Medi-
terranean Sea; to superintend the same, or any
others already erected in those parts of the world,
and to transnii~ an account of his proceedings to
the Grand Lodge, as soon as he found it conve..,.
nient.
XIII. GRAND ELECTION, Nov_. 30 1748.•
Hugh Seton, Esq. of Touch, Grand-Mast«•.
Major John Young, Deputy Grand-MtUt«.
John Douglas, Esq. Substitutt Grand-Masttf'.
,John St Clair, Esq. Smior Grand-Wardtn.
James Norie, Esq. Jtl(flior Grand-Jf(.ardm.
Thomas Mylne, Esq. GranfJ-Trtasur«.
John Macdougall,- Esq. Grand-Stcrda,.,.
Mr Robert Alison, Grand-Clerk.
Digitized by Coogle
-
.-,,..,
THE HISTORY OT
IN the coune of this year the usual meetings
and solemnities were held and observed ; but no
evenu happened which can excite general inte-
Jest.
XIV. GRAND ELECTION, NOfJ. 30. 1749·
Thomas Lord Erskine, GranJ-MaJttr.
Major John Young, Dtput' Grand-Mastw.
John Douglas,' Esq. Sulutittd1 Gralltl-Masttr.
Andrew Hay, Esc{. Smiw Granti-1Yartk•
~Q Mack, Esq. Juniw GranJ-1Yflf"dtn.
TbQmaa Mylne, Esq. Gr~~nd-Truuurw.
John Macdougall, Esq. Grand-&crdflf"WJ•
MJ R.Qbert Allton, Gf"QQU/-Citr,i.
THE funds of the Grand Lodge were much di-
minished during this year, by numerous dona-
tions to indigent brethren: While its jurisdiction
was greatly extended, by the erection of many
new lodges, and the confirmation of old consti-
tutions.
XV. GRAND ELECTION, NOfJ. 30.1750.
Alexander Ead of EgllntQD, GIWlll-M111tw.
Major John YOUIJ D.putJ Grallli-MtJdn'.
John Douglas, Esq. 8ubJ#itult GrtmJ-Maste.r..
Charles Mack, Eac!· Bln»r Grami-1Yardm.
Captain James Ogilvie, Juniw GrranJ..Wardtlf.
Thomas Mylne, Eaq. Grfllld-Trwww.
John Macdougall, Esq. Grtmd-&&rdar,.
Mr Robert Alison, Grand-Ckrl.
Digitized by Google
TRE HJSTOit.Y OF
Tsz ptoetedings of the Grand Lodge were dis-
tinguished by no important e"fents in the ·CO\lr&e
•f this year.
XVI. GRAND ElECTION, Nw. 30. 175'·
James Lord Boyd, Grt~tlfl..Mastw.
Colonel Jolua Young, Dtput1 GrMUJ..M.sm-.
John Douglas, Esq. SuiJ.ttitut~ GNtui-Mill1tr.
James Stewart, 8mior G~MUJ-1f'•rtlm.
John Hendenon of Leiaton, J11flitw GNfld-W'•dm.
Thomaa Mylne, Esq. GranJ-Tr~tUurw.
John Macdougall, Esq. Grand-St&rdary.
Mr Robert Alison, Grand-Ciwl. '
IT bad hitherto been customary for the Grand..
Master to nominate his successor, at the quarter-
ly communication which preceded the Grand
Election. Lord Boyd having neglected thi~ part
of his duty, the deficiency was supplied by a
committee appointed for the purpose, whose
judicious choice was of great benefit to the or-
.cler.
XVII. GRAND ELECTION, Not~. 30· 175:&.
Ceorge Drummond, Esq. Grand-MtUttr.
Charles Hamilton Gordon, Esq. D~ttt1 GranJ-MtUtw.
George Fraser, Esq. Substitutt Grand-MtUtw.
Joseph Williamson, Esq. Stnior Grand-WarJtn.
David Dalrymple, Esq. Junior Grand-WarJm.
Thomas Mylne, Esq. Grand-TrttUurtr.
John MacdougaU, Esq. Grand-&&rdary.
Mr James Alieon, GnznJ..Citrl.
Digitized by Google
168 THE HISTOJlY OF·
A MESSAGE was brought to the Grand Lodge,
informing them, that the foundation-stone of the
RoYAL ExcHANGE was to be laid on the 13th
September, and that a splendid procession of the
GrandLodge, attended bythe other lodges, in and
about Edinburgh, would take place on that oc-
casion. In order that the whole ceremony might
be conducted with the greatest propriety, regu-
larity a{ld splendour, a plan of the procession
was transmitted to the brethren by the Grand-
Master, which was highly approved of, and una-
nimously adopted.
WHEN the appointed day arrived, the cere-
D;lony was conducted in the following manner.
IN the morning, the Grand Lodge ordered a
magnificent triumphal arch, in the true Augus-
tan style, to be erected at the entry which led to
the place where the stone was to be laid. · In the
nitches, betwixt the columns, on each side of the
gate, were two figures representing Geometry and
Architecture, each as large as life. The entablature
was of the Corinthian order, and the friz.e con-
tained the following inscription,
Quod
FREE. MASONRY.
Quod felix faustumque sit.
TRANSLATION.
May this prove fortunate and auspicious.
On the middle pannel of the Attic base, placed
over the entablature, was represei1ted the Gmius
ofEdinburgh, in a curule chair, under a canopy•
On her right hand stood a group of figures, repre-
senting the Lord Provost, Magistrates, and Coun.-
cil, in their robes ; and, on her left, another
group, representing the Noblemen and Gentle-
men who were employed as overseers of the
intended structure. In front was placed the
Grand-Master presenting a plan of the Exchange,
attended by several of his brethren, in their pro-
per at~ite. The whole was decorated with laurels.
ON the west of the piace where the stone was
to be laid, a theatre was erected for the magis-
trates, covered with tapestry, and decked with
flowers. Directly opposite to it, on the east, was
another theatre, adorned in the sallie manner, for
the Grand-Master, and the officer-bearers of the
grand lodge. Around were galleries for the other
lodges, and for ladies and gentlemen.
THE foundation-stone, with .the following in-
!>cription, was laid on the pavement, early in
the morning, for public inspe~tion.
y
I
ljO THE HISTORY OF"
·Georgius Drummondus
In Architectonica Scoriae Repub.
Curio Maximus,
U rbis Edinburgi ter Consul,
Adstantibus l'"ratribus Architectonicis ccc.
Praesentibus multis Regni Magnatibus,
Senatu etiam Populoque Edinensi,
Et Hominum Ordinis cujusque
Magna stipante frcquentia,
Cunctisque plaudentibus ;
Ad Edinensium commoditatem
Et Decus publicum,
..iEdificiorum novorum Principium
Lapidem hunc posuit
Gulielmo Alexandro Cons.
ldibus Septembr. A. D. MDCCLIII.
Aerae architectonicae VMDCCLIU.
Imperiique Georgii II. Britanniarum Regis
Atmo xxvu.
TRANSLATION.
George Drummond,
Grand-Master,
Of the Society of Free Masons in Scotland,
Thrice Consul (Provost) of the City of Edinburgh,
Three hundred of the fraternity attending,
In presence of many peers of the realm,
"The magistrates and citizens of Edinburgh,
And of people of every rank
A numerous Assembly,
And all applauding,
•
For the conveniency of the inhabitants of Edinburgh,
And for the public ornament,
As the beginning of the new buildings,
Laid
- . . . , _ . _ _ L
~edb_Y_Googl~- ill'•
FREE MASONR.Y.
Laid this stone,
In the consulship of William Alexander~
On the 13th of September 1753,
Of the lCl'a of Masonry 5753,
And of the reign of George II. King of G. Britain,
The 27th year.
BELOW the inscription were three holes, each
fitted to contain a medal struck on the occasion.
On the one side ofthis medal was the effigies ofthe
Grand-Master in profile, vested with the ribbon
peculiar to his office; and, in front, a view of the
Royal Infirmary, with the following inscription,
G. Drummond, Architect. Scot.
Summus Magis. Edin. ter Cos.
TRANSLATION.
George Drummond, Grand-Master of the Society of Free
Masons in Scotland: thrice Consul (Provost) of Edin-
burgh.
'
ON the reverse of the medal,.was a perspective
view of the Exchange, encircled with thG follow-
ing inscription,
Urbi exom~dae, civiumque Commoditati.
TRANSLATION.
For the ornament of the city, and the conveniency of the
citizens.
And
Y2
'
FHE HISTORY OF
And underneath,
Fori Novi Edinburgensis posito Lapide primo, Ordo per
Scotiam Architectonicus excudi jussit, xtu. Septembris
MDCCLJU.
T!tANSLATlON,
The first stone of the New Exchange of Edinburgh being
laid, the Society of Masons through ScGtland ordered
this to be struck, 13th September 1753·
--.Another medal was struck on the occasion,
One side had the effigies, .8t.c. as above, and on
the reverse were the masops arms, inclosed within
the collar of St Andrew, with this inscription:
In the Lord is all oul' trust.
THE bl"ethren were all convened in Mary'3
Chapel, Niddry's Wynd, at three o'clock in the
afternoon, all i.n their proper jewels and clothing,
where they were met by the Most Worshipful
Grand-Master, who represented to them, that,' as
he proposed to execute this solemn act ofhis office
in the most regular manner, he had ordered the
clerk to transmit to. the master of every lodge a
plan of the order of procession, to be strictly ob-
served on this occasion. At three o'clock in the
afternoon, t~e procession advanced in the follow-
mg prder! .
THE
Digitized by GooL~
- -- -- - - --
FREE MASONRY. 173
THE junior lodges first. •
A body of operative masons not belonging to
any lodge present.
A band of French horns.
The lodges present, in the following order:
A military lodge from General ~ohnston's regi~
ment.
Thistle lodge.
Scots lodge in Canongate.
Holyroodhouse lodge.
·V emon Kilwinning lodge.
Canongate from Leith lodge.
Dalkeith lodge.
Lodge of Jourl)eymen Masons.
Canongate and Leith, Leith and Canongate
lodge.
Leith Kilwinning lodge.
Canongate Kilwinning lodge.
JMary's Chapel lodge.
All the brethren new clothed, and the Mas-
ter and Wardens of each lodge forming
the last rank, in the proper clothings and
jewels of their respective lodges, with their
other badges of dignity.
A body of gentlemen masons belonging to fo-
reign lodges.
A band of hautboys,
The golden compasses, carried by an operative
Jllason.
Three Grand Stewards, with their rods.
.. Grand
Digitized by Coogle
174 THE HISTORY OF
Grand Secretary, Grand Treasurer, and Grana
Clerk.
Three Grand Stewards, with their rods.
Golden square, level, and plumb, carried by
three operative masons.
A band of French horm.
Three Grand Stewards, with their rods.
The Grand Wardens.
The cornucopia and golden mallet, carried by
the officer of the Grand Lodge and an operative
mason.
The Grand-Master, supported by a former
Grand-Master, and the present Substitute.
Another body of operative masons.
·.A company of the City-guard covered the
rear.
AT the head of Niddry's Wynd, a body of the
military, consisting of 150 men, besides a com-
pany of grenadiers, were drawn up in two lines,
to receive them. By these the procession was
escorted ; one half of the grenadiers marching in
the front, and the other half in the rear, with
their bayonets fixed. The officer on the city-
guard, at the head of his company, paid the pro-
per military honours as they passed. In this or-
der they marched, drums beating and music play-
ing, to the Parliament-close. Here the masons
and the troops were formed, each into two lines,
tl1e troops covering the masons. Notice being
sent
-- _ _ o;9:tized by Google
- --. -
------ --- -----
FREE MASONRY. 175
sent'to the council-chamber, theLord Provost,Ma-
gisrates, and Council, in their robes, the city-
sword and mace borne before them, ·preceded by
the ci~y officers with their partisans, came into
the Parliament-close. They were received by
the Grand-Master, and the officers of the Grand
Lodge, at the north-west corner~ next to the
Council-chamber. The procession then moved
in the following manner :
FIRST, the Lord Provost, Magistrates, and
Council, attended by several of the gentlemen
employed in directing the public works, walk-
ed through the lines. The Grand-Masters up-
ported as before, the jewels, St.c. borne before
him, went next. Then followed ·the several
lodges according to their seniority. Having
passed in this manner through the triumphal
arch, the Lord PJ.ovost, Magistrates, and Coun-
cil, went to the theatre on the west ; the Grand-
Master, and the officers of the Grand Lodge, to
that on the east ; and the several lodges to the
galleries respectively assigned them. There was a
chair for the Grand-Master, with a table before
it, covered with tapestry, on which were placed
the jewels, &c. the cornucopia, and two silver
vessels, filled, the one with wine, and the other
with oil.
WHEN all the company were thus properly
disposed, the Grand-Master took his seat, and
the
Digitized by Goog:le
~~............~~~-----------·._-------~--~•NF·~---
THE HISTORY OF
the stone was, by order of the Substitute Grand-
Master, slung in a tackle, and let down gradu-
ally, making three regular stops before it came
to the ground. While this was going on, the
Mason's Anthem was played by the music, and
then sung, ail the brethren joining in the chorus.
The music continuing to play the anthem, the
stone was laid on the ground, the Grand-Master
came down from the theatre, supported as be-
fore, preceded by the officers of the Grand
Lodge, the jewels, &.c. borne before him, to
the ground where the stone lay ; and passing
through the officers of the Grand Lodge, to the
place where the stone lay, the Substitute Grand-
Master put into each of the three cavitie~ made in
the stone for that purpose, one of the aforemen-
tioned medals. Here- the music stopped. The
former Grand-Master and the Substitute retiring,
two operative brethren came in their place ; with
whose assistance the Grand-Master turned the
stone, and laid it in its bed, the inscription un-
dermost. The stone is in the south-east corner
of the west wing~ After it was laid, the Grand-
Master, with the Substitute on his right, placing
himself on the east, and the wardens standing on
the west of it, the square, the plumb, the level,
and the mallet, were successively delivered to the
Substitute, and by him to the Grand-Master ;
and having been severally used by the Grand-
Master, one of them, always before he received
another,
_o;g,,~~ by Google
--,
I
FREE MASONRY. 177
1lnother, they were redelivered in ,the same man·
ner, to the same persons by whom they were
borne. He applied the square to that part of the
stone which was square; the plumb to the seve-
ral edges of the stone ; .the level above the stone,
in several positions, and with the mallet he gave
the stone three knocks. Onthis the brethren gave
three huzzas. The anthem was played again ; and
the cornucopia, and the two silver vessels, were
brought from the theatre,.and delivered; the cor-
nucopia to the Substitute, and the two vessels to
the Wardens. When the anthem was ended, the
cornucopia and the two vessels were successively
presented by the Substitute to the Grand-Master,
and he, according to an ancient cel'emony on
such occasions, poured out the contents, the
corn, the wine, and the oil, on the stone, saying,
'' May the bountiful hand of Heaven ever sup-
" ply this city h abundance of corn, wine,
" and oil, and all the other conveniencies of
" lite." This being succeeded by three .huzzas,
the anthem was again played, and, when finish-
ed, the Grand-Master repeated these words,
" May the Grand Architect of the universe, as
" we have now laid this foundation-stone, of his
" kind providence, enable us to carry on and
" finish what we have now begun ; a·nd may he
" be a guard to this place, and the city in gene-
.. ral, and pteserve it from decay and ruin to
" the latest posterity." Having closed the cere-
mony with a short prayer for the Sovereign, the
7. senate
·---
• Digitized by Google
THE HISTORY OF
senate of the city, the fraternity of masons, and
all the people, the anthem was again played, and
the Grand-Master returned to his chair ; the bre-
thren expressing their applause by repeated clap-
ping of hands, and three huuas.
THE Gran<\-Master addressed himself to the
Lord Provost, M01gistrates, and Council, and
such of the gentlemen employed in the direction
of the building as were then present,
" MY Loan AND GENTLEMEN,
" IN the public character which I now hold, at
,. the head of my brethren of this aneient and
" honourable Society, I presume to address you ;
" and in their name, and for myself~ I return
" you my most humble and hearty thanks for
" the honour you have done us in witnessing
" our laying this foundation-stone• . May you
" and your successors be happy instruments of
" forwarding this great and good work, of which
" we have now so fair a prospect. M it will
" add greatly to the ornament and advantage of
" the city, so I hope it will be a lasting honour
" to you, and a means of transmitting your me-
" mories to the latest posterity.
"To suchofyou,myfellow citizens, as arejoined
" in the direction of this building with the other
" nobleand generous patrons of the intended pub-
" lie
o;9,tizedbyGoogle-- ,J
THE HISTOllY OF 179
u lie works, I address myself particularly., and
" at the desire of my brethren, some of.whom
" have become contributors, and I hope more
" will soon follow the laudable example. I
" beg leave to take notice, that, as ·these works
" are designed for the ornament, interest, and
·.. conveniency of the city, it is not doubted but
" you will be attentive, with the most vigorous
" and ardent zeal, to pursue the whole of the
. " scheme' for the general good, and on no ac- ·
" count to allow private interest, or party hu-
" mour, any where to prevail or interfere. I
" would not have_presumed to express myself in
" this manner, were it not absolutely necessary,
" for the success of such works, that the people
" without doors should be entirely satisfied of
" the disinterestedness of the directors. Jea-
" lousies, if there should be any at our setting
"out, could not Jell to be attended with fatal
" consequences, no les~, perhaps, than the en-
" tire overthrow of the scheme. They would
" occasion an unhappy backwardness, if not a
" stagnation in the contributions ; as prejudices,
" however ill-founded, are always very difficult
" tO' be oTercome. This could not but give the
" utmost concern to all of us, and to every good
•• citizen.·
" The task I bave und~rtaken, will, no doubt,
u- to some appear insurmountable ; it must, in-
" deed, be confessed to be difficult. But my
2 2 " experience
• Digitized by Google
ISO THE HISTOI.Y OF
" experience of the kindness of Proyidence in ~
" late affair of this nature *, and the generous
" d~sposition of my fellow-citizens, and man)'
" others, encouraged me to engage likeWise in
" this undertaking. And, whatever judgment
" the censuring part of mankind may pass, I
" have a secret satisfaction in thinking some of
" my leisure hours thus usefully employed. I
" shall chearfully sacrifice a part of my own
-" quiet and interest, if thereby I can be any
~· ways seJ:viceable to the place of my birth,
f' and the metropolis of my country, which has,
" agaip and again, done me the great honour to
" put me at the head of its senate. And I flatter
" myself this resolution will be allowed not to
" proceed from any sinister mo!ives.
" As I hne nothing more sincerely at heart
" than the finishing the work we have now so
" happily begun, I am hopeful, that if-God, in
" his providence, shall not permit us to see it
~· finished, there will not be wanting gentlemen
" of abilities, ~naued with so much love to their
" countrf as to think, as I have always done,
" a part of their time aml labour worthily be~
" stowed, in superintendi~g and promoting this
" and all the other schemes now in view, for the
" benefit of the public. That the city of Edin-
" burgh may always be blessed with many such
' .
citizens!
~ The ~oyal lnlirm~ry of Edinburgh~
Dz;:::·-
Digitized by Google - ••• I
l'REE MASONllY~ · 18I
~· citizens, and that the city, and all ranks of
t• people in it, may flourish and be happy, has
'' ever been, and still shall be, my unfeigned
'' wish, and most ardent prayer."
THE Grand-Master next addressed himself to
the 'Ulldertakers, to the following effect.
" MY BRJ!:THREN AND FELLOW CITIZENS,
" You are now about to engage in the execu..
" tion of this great undertaking, which I hope
I' will bring you profit. It will bring you h~
" nour likewise, if you perfonn your part faith-
" fully. I persuade myself you are convinced,
" that, to gain the esteem and thanks of the
" noble and judicious patrons of this work, and
~· of your fellow_citizens, will be of no smaD
~· consequence to you ; and that these depend
f' on the executiqn of what you now undertake.,
" Your .reputation must either stand or fall by
" it : For the beauties or faults ofpublic edifices ·
u are in a manner manifest to every body. A
~· good design well executed does honour. to the
" undertaker; but his reputation must suffer, if
" art, prudence, or honesty, be wanting. What
,, I have said is only by way of caution•; for I
" have no doubt of your capacity to ju~ge of the
~· soundness of the materials, or of your know-
~· ledge in every thing requisite. Yet, let me
~· advise .you to consider well, and ·make your-
~~ selves thoroughly acquainted with the whole
of '
- - -
Digitized by Google
Ih THB mSTOR.Y OF
"·of the design. By having a clear and distinct
.
" view of the general plan, you will discover
" many thi11gs necessary to. be known, which
" otherwise might escape the most accurate;
" and thus you will avoid false and expensive
". executions. I believe it will be convenient
" that one of your number, sufficiently accom-
" pli5hed to 'perform every part of the wor~,
" and who, by a constant study and practice in
." works of this kind, has demonstrated his know-
~' ~ge, be appointed to attend and oversee the
~' work at all times. I have nothing to add, but
" to recommend a strict adherence to the plan,
" and to whatever the directors may think fit to
~' ·prescribe ; and that no undue freedoms be used
" by you, either in the exterior ornaments, or in
.- the interior disposition. ·You are never to de-
., viate in the least from the design, unless it be
" thought absolutely necessuy by its noble pa-
" trons."
T~z ceremony being now over, the magistrates
.t09k. leav~. When they were going away, the
·~ubstit,ute Gl'aod.:Master presented them with se-
v~l of.the medals struck on the occasion.
' ..
. THE t;>rethren then walked from the fJWUDd
.to t:be·palace of Holyroodhouse, in the same
order,[ and escQfted·in the same manner as in
.t;b:e proc~~i<)n from the chapeL When they
armed ~ tf}e -p~gate, the troops l~ft them ;
the
~-"D,cg'g'=''zed by Google --- -
·l'llJUt MASONRY.
the Grand-Master having, in his own name, and
in that of his brethren, made proper acknowledg-
ments to the.commanding officers·for·their care
and prudence.
THE brethren now entered theiimer court, and
formed themselves into a square ; -aod ,having. re-
ceived the Gtand-Master, with the Officers of the
Grand-Lodge into the centre, they paid him thcr
complime~ts due to his high ran~ by repeated
clapping of hands and huzzas. He then ·pro.:
-ceeded, with the usual state, followed by the
lodges according to their seniority, to the great
gallery. There they were entertained, -in ioo
decent, solemn, and harmonious manne.r, usual
among masons. And, that nothing might be said-
-to break in upon the regularity that had been
observed during the whole ceremony, the com-
pany dismisSed about nin~ o'clock inthe evening.
ON this occasion there was the greatest con-
course of people that has been witnessed in the
city. Wherever th~ -procession passed, all the
windows, and ·even the tops of the houses, were
crowded. But, notwithstanding the vast multi-
tude, and the hazardous situation into which
many were led by their curiosity, the whole
ceremony WRS, by the goodness of Divine Provi-
dence, brought to a happy termination, with-
out the imallest accident.
XVIII. GRAN»
~ ----- :._ ,_ -. ---
-
- Digitized by Google_
TRlt 11ISTOllY Cli'
XVIII. GRAND ELECTION, NOfJ. 30•.1753·
Charles Hamilton Gordon, Esq. Grand-Mast".
Joseph Williamson, Esq. Dtput1 Grand-MaJt".
George Fraser, Esq. Su!JJtitute Grand-Master.
Dr John Boswell, Senior Grand-Warden.
Patrick ·Lindsay, Esq. Junior Grand-Wardm.
Thomas Mylne, Esq. Grand-Treasurer.
John 'Macdougall, Esq. Grand-&crdary.
Mr James Alison, Gr.nd-Cierl.
A PETITION was received from the Scotish lodge
in.Copenhagen, denominated Le Pdit Nombr~, re-
questing a charter of confirmation from the.Grand
Lodge of Scotland, and also the liberty of electing
a Grand-Master, with full powers to erect new.
lodges in any part of the kingdom. This peti-
tion being considered, the Grand Lodge were of
opinion, that they could not, consistently with
their supreme dignity and authority, delegate the
power of electing a Grand-Master. But as they
were desirous to promote, as far as possible,·the
interests of masonry, they resolved to. grant a
patent of constitution and erection in the usual
form, and a provincial commission to a qualifi-
ed person, empowering him to erect new lodges
in the kingdoms of Denmark and Norway, and
to superintend those which were already erected;
provided that this provincial Grand-Master should
be always subject to the Grand Lodge of Scot-
"klnd ;.
'
Digitized by Google
Ftl.EE.· MASONRY..
land; and that the lodges which he constituted,
should recognise and acknowledge her as their pa-
ramount superior.
XIX. GRAND.ELECTION, Nw. 30. 1754•
The Honourable James, Master ef Forbes, Grtmd-Mute~.
David Dalrymple. Est~• D'ju/1 Grtmd-M'atter.
George Fraser, Esq. Su6stitu* GranJ-Master.
John Lum~n, Esq. SenWt- Grllllli~Wardm.
Alexander Cunningham, Esq. Junior Grand-Warlkn.
Thomas Mylne, Esq. Grand-Treasurer.
Alexander Macdoug~, Esq. Grand-SecretarJ·
Mr James Alison, Grand-Cierl:•
. .
· AFTER the election of the office-bearers, the
brethren walked in proce!;sion from Mary's Cha-
pel, to the High School, accompanied with bands
of music, and directed by the light of torches.
At this procession, above four hundred brethren
were present, and amongst them, Colonel James
Adolphus Oughton, provincial Grand-Master over
the English lodges in the island of Minorca, &.c.
This is the first instance of a procession by torch
light that occurs in the records of the Grand
Lodge.
--
IT was agreed upon in the course of this year,
1 that·the quarterly communications should here-
after meet on the first Mondays ofFebruary, May,
August, and Nov~mber.
XX. GRAND
. .
J
.1." •
- - . - - - - _DJS tized.b),;oGoogle
1.86 THE H~STOR.Y OF
XX. GRAND ELECTION, D«. 1. 1755·
Sholto Charles Lord Aberdour, Grand-Masttr.
George Fraser, Esq. D~uty Grantl-Masttr.
Richard Tod, Esq. Sulutitutt Grand-M~tr.
Dr Henry Cunoingham, Esq. Stnitw Grand-Wardtll. ·
William Budge, Esq. Juniw Grantl-Wardtn.
James Ewart, Esq. Grantl-Trtasurtr.
Alexander Macdougall, Esq. Grand-Stcrtta?;
Mr James Alison, Grt~nd-Citrl.
IT was represented to the G~d Lodge, that
the interests of masonry would be greatly pro-
moted by the dil'ision of Scotland into districts,
and the appointment of provin~al Gnmd-Mas-
ters to each district. This suggestion being taken
· into consideration, it was resolved to nominate a
number of respectable gentlemen, who were qua-
lified for the discharge of that important office.
Sir William Dunbar, Bart. of Westfield, was ap-
pointed to the district of Inverness. Mr David
'Dalrymple, Advocate, to that of Aberdeen. Mr
John Cunningham, younger of Balbougie, to
the Fife district. James Liddersdale, Esq. Col-
lector of Excise at Kelso, to the district compre-
hending the counties of East Lothian, Roxburgh,
Selkirk, and Peebles. And Archibald Hamilton,
Esq. of Dalserff, to the diitrict of Glasgow, Dum-
fries, &.c.
'
.... Digitized by oogl<;.. Q d
----- --·- - - ~-.....-,..-
.s•:.
"'FREE MASONRY.
THE Grand Lodge was requested by the lodge
of Canongate and Leith, to appojnt a proper
person to consecrate ~ new room, fitted up for
holding their meetings. In compliance with
this request, Mr John Maclure, Grand-Chaplain,
was appointed, who performed the ceremony in
presence of the Grand-Master, and other office-
bearers of the Grand Lodge:
IN consequence of a petition from the lodge
at Kelso, stating that the progress of the bridge,
· then building over the Tweed, would likely ~
retarded for want of money, and requesting as-
sistance from the funds of the Grand Lodge; they
agreed to allot twenty guineas for this important
purpose.
XXI. GRAND ELECTION, Nw. 30. 1756.
Sholto Charles Lord Aberdour, Grand-Maittr.
George Frast;r, Esq. Dtputy Grand-MtUtrr.
Richard Tod, Esq. Su/utitutt Grand-Masttr.
Dr Henry CunninghaOl, ·&nillr Grand-Wartkn.
William Budge, Esq. Junior Grand-Wardm.
James Ewart, Esq. Gf'ond-Trt~~surtr.
Alexander Macdougall, Esq. Grand-Stcrttary.
Mr James Alison, Grand-Citrll.
LoRD Aberdour was again elected to the of-
fice of Grand-Master; .which is the first instance
of a re-election since the institution of the Graml
~d~. . .
A az
_____............
--.....~- ~-·· - -
..........
'
-
tSS Till! HISTORY CJr
· IN the course of this year, a provincial com-
mission was granted to Co~nel John Young, who
had been for many years Deputy Grand-Master
for Scotland, over .all the lodges in America and
, the West-Indies. A patent of erection was also
,granted for a lodge at Boston, in New England.
XXII. GRAND ELECTION, N()'f), 30. 1757•
Alexander Earl of Galloway, Grana-Master•
. George Fraser, Esq. Dtputy GranJ-Mastw.
Jichard Tod, Esq. &•rtit~e Granti-.Master.
David Roas, Esq. &tnWr- GranJ-Wartlm~
William McGhie, Esq. J•niw Grond-TYarJt&·
James Hunter, Esq. Grand-Treasllt"tr.
AleX;ander Macdougall, Esq. Grnnd-Stcrttary.
Mr James Alison, Grand-Citrl:.
A CHARTER of constitution was, during this
year, granted to the lodge of Fredricksburgh in
Virginia. ·
XXIII. GRAND ELECTION, N()'f). 30. 1758.
Alexander Earl of G~oway, Gr..J..Madtr,
George F~, Esq. Dtpllt] Grand-M-.rttr.
Richard Tod, Esq. Subttitute Gra11d-Matttr~
David Ross, Esq. Senior Grand-Wartkn
W'illiam McGhie, Esq. Juniw Grand-WQrJm~
James Hunter, Esq. Grand-Treasurer•
.Alexander Macdougall, Esq. Grand-Stcrdarl:
Mr Jolm Maclure, Grand-Chaplain.
Mr George Beam, Grond-C{rrl:. •
.,, rn h It] 'U , ( t h~ i'~d by Google _~__..j
FREE \l'ASONR.Y. . ..
· TwE committee of chanty, havirig taken into
their consideration the distressed condition of the
French prisoners, connnetl.ln 'the Castle of Edin-
burgh, resolVed to lay out ten guineas in supply-
ing them with clothes and other necessaries; and
to give the preference tot.hO&e \qho were breth~n
of the order, without neglecting the necessities
of such ru; were uninitiated. · :we have already
mentioned several instances of the humanity and
benevolenoe of ·the Grand Lodge of Scotland.
But we are persuaded, that their conduct to the
French prisoners will procure' them the esteem
of every generou!i and feeling niirid.
MR John Maclure having acted as chap.
lain to the Grand Lodge for ~ c,o11sjderabl~ time,
they installed him into that office, and authorised.
him to hold the .proper raok ~d precedency in
the Gr3nd LOdge.
XXIV. GR.AND ELECTION, Nov. 3o;. •159· · •·
David Earl of Leven., Gt-MU/-.:Mt1411r.
George Fraser, Esq. JJ'IIIIy.Gronii-MIIIIw.
~ichard To<i, Esq. Sllhstitlde ·Gtltiiiii-MQ~Mr..
Walter Stewart, Esq. 8miw Gr..N-Wan/m.,
Major James Seton, Junior Grand-Warden.
James Hunter, Esq. O,and-TrtiUurw.
AJex.aJUler Macdougall, Esq. Granti-Se~rd•ry.
Mr Jolm Maclure, G!'anJ-Chaplain.
Mr George Beam, Grand-Clerk.
, .
SEVERAL
Digitized by Coogle
THE HISTOilY OF
SEVERAL brethren who were Scots masons, hav-
ing erected a lodge at Charlestown in South Ca-
rolina, transmitted five guineas to the Grand
Lodge of Scotland, for the use of their poor.
Grateful for this unexpected instance of benevo-
lence, the Grand Lodge ordered a charter to be
instantly made out, and transmitted to them by
the first opportunity.
ON the 24th April 176o, the brethren, in and
about Edinburgh, walked in procession from the
lodge of Canongate Kilwinning, to lay the foun~
dation-stone .of the Canongate Poor-House,.which
was performed with the usual solemnities.
XXV. GRAND ELECTION, D«. 1. 1760.
DaYid Earl of Leven, C,tmtl-Masttr.
Charles Earl of Elgin, Grand-Masttr El«t.
George Fraser, Esq. DtJnl? Grand-Masttr.
Richard Tod, Esq. Suktitutt Grand-Masttr.
Walter Stewart, Esq. Smior GratUI-Wartlm.
Major James Seton, Jt~~~ifW' GranJ-WarJm.
James Hunter, Esq. C,tmd-Trtasurtr.
Alexander Macdougall, Esq. Grflnd-&N"ttary.
Mr John Maclut"e, GranJ-CIIaplain. ·
Mr George Beam, GranJ-Citrle.
IN the course of this· year the practice was
introduced, of permitting the Grand-Master to
hold his office for two years ; at the end of the
first year, however, he nominated his successor,
who
Digitized by G_
oogle
-- ---------~----------~----~
FREE MASONRY.
who received the appellation of Grand-Master
Elect.
XXVI. GRAND ELECTION, N(I'IJ, 30. 1761• .
Charles Earl of Elgin, Grand-Masttr.
James Stewart, Esq. Dtputy Grt~nt/-Mast".
Richard Tod, Esq. 8u!JstiJutt Grand-Mast".
Captain John Wemyss, 8miw Grt~nd-Wardtn.
The Hon. Alexander Gordon, Juniw Grand-Wardtn.
James Hunter, Esq. Grand-TrtaJur".
Alexander Macdougall, Esq. Grand-8tcrttary.
Mr John Maclure, Grand-Chaplain
Mr George Bean:t, Grand-Clerk.
IN the course of this year two French prison-
ers in Edinburgh Castle, who were FreetMasons,
were allowed four guineas from the Grand Lodge.
These instances of practical charity should not be
suffered t.o pass in silent oblivion.
XXVII. GRAND ELECTION,.Not~. 30 1762.
Charles Earl of Elgin, Grand-Masttr.
John Earl of Kellie, Grand-Masttr Eltct.
James Stewart, Esq. Dtputy Grand-Masttr.
Richard Tod, Esq. 8u!Jstitutt GranJ..Masttr.
Governor John W emyss, 8tnior Grand-Wardtn.
The Hon. Alexander Gordon, Juniw Grand-Wardtn.
James Hunter, Esq. Grand-Trtasurtr.
Alexander Macdougall, Esq. Grand-8tcrti~UJ·
Mr John Madure, Grand-Chaplain.
Mr Georce Beam, Gram/-Citr1.
A
r•
, I
i
. I
• I
I
IHK HISTORY O!'
A unnON was this year received from some
brethren in London, requesting a charter of con-
stitution from the Grand Lodge of Scotland.
Lest such a grant; bowever, sho~ld interfere with
the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of Englandy
it was agreed to reooe their ICC~uest. But. the
Grand Lodge oft'ered to recommeiMl them to the
Grand Lodge of England.
A tETTER was received from the Lord Provost,
Magistrates, and Town Council of Edinburgh, in-
forming the Grand Lodge, that they bad resolved
to lay the foundation stone of the NorthBridge, on
the :nst ofOctober 1763, and requesting the com-
pany and assistance of the Grand-Master and
his brethren, in conducting the necessary cere·
monies. ·
THE brethren met in the Parliament f.louse at
two o'clock in the afternoon. In absence of the
Earl of Elgin, the present Grand-Master, George
Drummond, Esq. Lord Prov-:Jst of Edinburgh,
who was Grand-Master in I 753, and oBiciated in
person at_
laying the first stone of the Edinburgh
Exchange, was appointed to act in that charac-
ter. At three o'clock the procession advanced in
the following order.
The
Digitized by Google
---~ __.. ~ ---~--,....----~
FREE MASONllY. 193
The lodge of Musselburgh Kilwinniog. .
The military lodge of the Duke of Norfolk.
The thistle Lodge. .
Edinburgh St Andrew's lodge.
St Luke's lodge. •
St Giles's lodge.
· St David's lodge.
Dalkeith Lodge.
Journeymen-Masons lodge.
Canongate and Leith, Leith and Canongate.
LeitP lodge.
Canongate Kilwinning lodge.
Mary's Chapel lodge.
Grand Lodge.
THE masten; and wardensin their proper ~loth­
ing, jewels, and other badges of dignity, .formed
the last ranks of their respective lodges. The
Grand Lodge was preceded by a musical band of
the fratemity, who all the way sung several tine
airs, accompanied by French horns, &.c. and by
some opetative brethren who carried the jewels
of the fraternity. In this .·order, the procession
(escorted by two companies of the military, and
the city-guard) advanced along the street, by the
Netherbow, Leith-Wynd, and the road leading
west from the port at the foot of that wynd, to
the place where the foundation-stone was to be
laid, which is a few paces to the north of the new
port. When they arrived at the place, the bre-
thren having stationed themselves around the
Grand Lodge, on scaffolds erected for the pur-
B b pose,
, _ _ Digitized by Google
· TRE "HISTORY OF
pose, the stone was laid, with the usual solem-
nities, by the Grand-Master, amidst the accla-
mations of the brethren, and a prt>dig;ous pum-
ber of spectators. The whole being concluded
with an anthem, about five o'-clock, the brethren
returned ,in procession, and passed the evening
in the Assembly-hall, with that social chearful-
ness, for which the society is so eminently distin-
guished.
THREB medals, struck on the occasion, were
placed below the stone. On one of these was
an elevation of the intended·bridge; on another,
a bust of the present King ; and on the third,
the following inscription, which was likewise cut
'tlpon the stone, in capital letters.
i. D. 0. )f.
Pootus acl Lethem :Eclinb. portam.
Lapidem hunc fuodaminl$ principi~
posuit
Georgius Drummondus Armiger,
. Urbis Consul,
Pntorii sui anno duodecimo,
Die Octb. xxr. A. D. MDccLxm,
.lEnt autem Architectonicae anno
VWDCCLXIJ11
Honorabili summe colendo -riro
~lo Comte de Elgin,
Apud Scotoa Artis hujus Curione maximo,
Ac Georgii Ill.
Mai· Britan. Fr. & Hib. Regis.
Anno III.
Q. D. B. V.
. TRANSLATION
• I
Digitized by Coogle
gO
FREE MASONilY.
TRANSLATION.
By the favour of Almighty God, ~
George Drummond, Esq.
Lord Provost of this city,
· Laid
This Foundation-Stone
or the bridge .leading towards Leith,
The sea-port of the city of ~
In the twelfth year of his ProYostship,
Upon the ~1st day of October,
In the year of our Lord 1763,
And of the zra of Masonry s163,
(The right Honourable and Most Worshipful
Charles Ead of EJgia
BeiDg Gr.utd Naster-Ma1011 of~
.Anll of cbe nip of G.qe m.
King of G. &i12ia, l'ralloe; aQd lreilad,
The third yev.
Wltich may the supnne God ,...per.
XXVIII. GRAND ELECTION, Nw. 30, 176$•
John Earl of Kellie, Grantl-MIUitr.
Joseph Williamson, Dtpu!J Grllllll-Mmtr.
Richard Tod, Esq. Suhtitrm Gnmti-Mmtr.
Andrew AJi10n, ~ an.;., Gnl1111-IY
.,.,__
AieL Wight, Esq. Adwcate, J-i-' Gnlfiii.F--
James Hunter, Eaq. Gnmfi-Tr.,nr.
Alex. MacdougaU, Escv Gr~.
Mr Jolul Maclure, Gratl-~.
ldr George Beam, Gr11111l-Ckri.
. ..
THE Lod~ of St. Andrew's, at St. Thomas
in.
Digitized by Google
THE HISTORY OF
in the East, Jamaica, transmitted, dudng tbii
year, the sum of ten pounds for the charity
fund.
A Military L9c1~ was thi~ year erected in
Holland, under the name of the Union Lodge,
The constitution was granted by the Grand Lodge
of Scotland, at the request of the chief officers iQ
General Marjoribanks's regiment, in the service of
the States-Gen.eral of the Unitecl Provinces.
XXIX. GRA:ND ELECTION, NfJ'IJ. 30. 1764.
John Earl of Kellie, Grand-Master.
Rt. Hon. J. Stewart, Ld. Provost, Grand..Mann: Ekd:
Joseph Williamson, Esq. Deputy Gratrd-Master.)
Richard Tod, Esq. S~stit11t, Grand-Master~
Andrew Alison, Esq. Smior Grand-Wardm.
_ Alex. Wight, Esq. Advocate, JuniDr Grantl-JYarden~
Alexander Macdougall, Esq. GranJ-Trtasurtr!
Mr John Maclure, Grand-Chaplain.
Mr George Beam, Grantl-Cier1.
In the c~urse of this year two guineas were
transmitted:. to the charity fund, by St. John's
Lodge in Virginia. Facts of this n~ture, appa:.:
rently ttifting, are mentioned for the ~nformation
of those who represent the benevolence of Free
Masons as counterfeited and hypocritical. We
have seen, in more instances than one, that the
)Vide Atlantic, even, cannot separate the hearts of
the Br~tbren. ·
Digitized by Google
FREE MASONRY.
XXX. GR,AND ELECTION, NrnJ. 3o. 1765.
llt. Hon. J. Stewart, Ld. Provost of Edin. Grand-Master.
The Hon. Alexander Gordon, Deputy Gr~~nd-Masttr.
Ric:bard Tod, Esq. Substitute Grand-Masterr.
Sir John Whiteford, Senior Grand-JYarden.
Sir William Forbes, Juniqr Grand-Warden.
James Hunter, Esq. Grand-Treasurer.
Alexander Macdougall, Esq. Grand-Stcretary.
Mr. John Maclure, Grand-Chaplain.
~r George Beam, GranJ-CierJ:.
No important events marked the proceedings
of this year.
XXXI. GRAND ELECTION, Dec. r, 1766.
Rt. Hon. J. Stewart, Ld. Provost of Edin. Grand-Masttr.
George Earl of Dalhousie, Grand-Master Elect.
The Hon. Alexander Gordon, Deputy Grand-Master.
;Richard Tod, Esq. Substitute Grand-Master.
~ir John Whiteford, Senior Grand-Warden.
~ir William Forbes, Juniqr GranJ-Warden.
James Hunter, Esq. Grand-Treasurer.
Alexander Macdougall, Esq. Grand-Secretary;
ldr John Maclure, Grand-Chaplain.
1dr Archibald Megget, GranJ-CierJ:.
The elegant mason lodge at Dalkeith was con-
seerated on the 24th November 1767, by Richard
'fod, Esq. Substitute Grand-Master.
xxxu.
o;9;tizedbyGoogle
xgS THE HISTORY OF
XXXII. GRAND ELECTION, Nov. 30, 1767.
Gtorgc Earl of Dalhousie, Gratul-Mtl.rtrr.
Lord Robert Kerr, D~uty Granti-Ma.rttr.
Andrew Alison, Esq. Srrb.rtitutt Grllfiii-Ma.rur.
Alexander Elphinrtone, Esq. Snmr Grtlflti-J!J~.rtrr.
Harry Bethune, Eeq. J11mrw G,..lfti-W•n/t,,
James Hunter,_ Esq. Grv~tui-TrN.trtrn'.
Alexander Macdoug:o~ll, Esq. Gr11111i-S«ru.ry.
Mr. John Maclure, G1WtNI-Cllllf'l4U..
Mr Archibald Megget, Gr•-'-Cier'l.
During this year the practice of granting diplo.-
mas was introduced into the Grand Lodge. '
XXXIII. GRAND ELECTION, Nw. 30, 1768.
George Earl of Dalhoaaic, Gr.,J.I£utw~
His Excellency General Oughton, Gr11tui.Mtutw Elect•
.Loft Robert Kerr, Dlf'•l7 GIWIIIhMillltr.
Andrew Alison, Eaq. S•b.rtiltdt Grt~tui-MIUfrr'w
Alexmder Elphinrtone, Eaq. Senior GranJ-W•rtlm.
Harry Bethune, Esq. Junior Gr11•J-Wartlnt.
James Hunter, Escf. Gr•NI-Tr'tuurtr•.
Alexander Macdougall, Esq. Gronti-Set:rtlti'"J'•
Mr John Maclure, Grond-Chaploiir.
Mr Archibald Megget, Grt~ttii-Cirrl.
In the course of this year several irregularities
had been committed by the Lodges, while laying
the foundation-stone of the bridge at Glasgow. It
c'tppears that they had elected a Grand-Master and
other office-bearers for this purpose, without think-
ing that such conduct was highlyunconstitutional.
''rhe Grand Lodge having written upon this sub-
ject
Digitized by GQOQ[e
__,..
....
._
..
---
---
FREE IIASO)JI.Y.
ject to the Lord Provost of Glasgow, who was
then Provincial Grand-Master of the district, re_.
ceived' a suitable apology.
XXXIV. GRAND ELECTION, Nov. 30, 1769;
Hia Exee11ency.General Oughton, Grqtu/~skr.
Sir WUliam Erskine, D~:J Gr11111i-MaJJer.
Andrew Alison, E.q. S11bst1iu1t Grorui-Masltr.
Dr James Lind, s~nior Grana-Warden.
William Baillie, Esq. Junr"tJr Gf'anti-Wortltn.
James HUtater, Esq. Gf'llntf-T,.ttntlf't1".
Alexander Macdougall, E.q. Gron4-S«r•ttvy.
Mr John Madore, Granti-Choplain.
Mr. David Bolt, GraNi-C/"!.
In the course of this year no events of impor-
ponance occurred.
XXXV. GRAND BLECTJON. Nov. 30, 1770.
His Excellency Geoeftl ~gbtoa, Gt-111111-Mast~r.
Patrick Earl of Dumfries, Gr~tf....l4t&sur El«t.
Sir William Erskine, IH!*'J Gr41Ui-MIIIItr.
Andrew Alison. Esq. Substitult Granti-Milsl~r.
Dr James Lind, &niw Granti-W11rtlm.
William Baillie. Eeq. Y.,.Wr Gr•.J-W,:im.
James Hantcr, Esq. Grlllfii-Trt~,..
Alexander Macdou~Wl. Esq. Gronti-S«rtiiii'J·
Mr John Maclure, Gr•nti-Cb•piain.
Mr David Bolt, Grou-CI~r!.
The Lodge of St. Andrew, at Jamaica, exem-
plified their submission to the Grand Lodge of
Scatland, by applying to them for libeny to em-
ploy
Digitized by Coogle
THE HISTORY OF
ploy a person of their Qwn appointment for con-
secrating their lodge, which was willingly agreed
to.
In the course of this year the foundation_
-stone
of the Cowgate Episcopal Chapel was laid on the
3d of April, I 77I, by his Excellency Lieut. Gen.
Oughton, Grand Master-Mason of Scotland, at-
tended by several gentlemen ofdistinction. Some
coins of his present Majesty's reign were deposit-
ed in the stone un~r a _
plate, containing the fol-
lowing inscription•
.B.dificii sacri Ecclesiz Episc.
Angliz,
Primum posuit lapidem,
J. Adolphus Oughton,
In Architectonica Scotiz Repub.
Curio Maximus
Militum Pr:l:fectus,
Regnante Georgii III.
Tertio Apr. Die.
.a. D. MDCCLXXX.
No regular procession of Masons attended upon
this occasion, as the countenance of the Grand
Lodge was not solicited.
. XXXVL
Digitized by Google
FREE MASONRY.
XXXVI. GRAND ELECTION, NOfJ. 30, 1771.
Patrick Earl of Dumfries, Grami-Mastt'r.
The Hon. Col. Napier, Dt>puty Grand-Mastn-.
Dr John Caimie, Substziutt' Grand-Mastn-.
Andrew Balfour, Esq. Smior Granti-Wardm.
William Barclay, Esq. Junitlr Grafiii-Warden.
James Hunter, Esq. Grami-Trt>asurt'r.
Alexander Macdougall, Esq. Granti-St>er#ary.
Mr John Maclure,'Granti-Cbaplain.
M~ David Bolt, Gr•ntl-Cieork.
201
. A letter was addressed to the Grand Lodge by
the Earl of Dumfries, intimating that he .was to
lay the foundation-stone ofthe harbour at Ayr, on
the 22d September 1772, and requesting that the
jewels of the Grand Lodge might be sent for the
purpose, and that as many of the office-bearers·
as possible might'attend.
When the appointed day arrived, there were
present
Patrick Earl o£ numfries, Grand-Master.
---.Dalrymple, Esq. of Orangefield, D. G. M. P.1' .
Bain Whyt, Esq. S. G. M.P. T.
William Campbell, Esq. of Fairfield, S. W.
William Logan, Esq. J. G. W.
Alexander Macdougall, Esq. G. Sec.
Rev. Mr. Macgill, Grand-Chaplain,
Mrpavid Bolt, Grand-Clerk.
c c
,
LODGES
Digitized by Google
...---- -
2.02 THE HISTORY OF
LODGES .\TTEND!NG.
Ayr Kilwinning.
Maybole.
St. Marnock's., Kilmarnock.
St. James's, Newtown of Ay1·.
St. Andrew's, Kilmarnock.
Thistle Lodge, Stewarton.
St. Andrew's, Girvan.
THE brethren being convened at the King's
Arms Tavern, the Grand-Master took his place,
and stated that the gre~test attention and regula-
rity should be obseliVed in the course of the so-
lemnity, which began in the following manner:
The youngest lodges walking first, with the
masters and office-bearers in the rear.
The brethren belonging to promiscuous lodges.
The golden compasses carried-by an operative
mason.
1-"ive Grand-Stewards with their rods.
Master of the Grand-Stewards.
Golden square, level, and plumb, carried bl
three operative masons.
A band of instrumental music.
Three Grand Stewards. •
TheGrand-Secretary,Grand-Chaplain carryin&
the Bible, Grand-Clerk.
The cornucopia and golden mallet carried by
the Gra!J.d-Tyler, and operative mason
The
Digitized by Google •
- - --
--- ('"'c..;.._..,.,
J'R.E.E MASONR.Y.
The Grand-Master supported by-his Deputy
and Substitute.
A body o( gentlemen-masons, in proper cloth-
ing.
IN the above order the brethren proceeded to
the church of Ayr, where· they heard an excel-
lent discourse'delivered by the Reverend Mr Dal-
.rymple, one of the ministers of that place, from
the ciT.. Psalm and xsth verse, "And wine
" maketh glad the heart of man, ·· and oil
" to make his face to shine, and bread w:hich
" strengtheneth man's heart." After which they
proceeded in the same order as before to the
place where the foundation-stone was to be laid.
The Grand-Master, attended by his- grand offi-
cers, took his seat in ·a chair placed upon the
end of the quay, all the brethren being situated .
on the opposite banks. When the whole company
was properly placed, the foundation-stone was,
by order of the Substitute Grand-Master, slung
in a rope, and let down, making three stops be-
fore it came to the ground. In the mean time,
the anthem was played by the music, and
then sung, all the brethren joining in the chorus.
The music alone still continued to play the an-
them. Wben the stone was laid on the ground
the Grand-Master, supported as before, pre~eded
by the oflicers of the Grand Lodge, the jewels
carried before him to the ground where the stone
lay, and passing through the officers of the Grand
. c c 2 Lod&'e,
Digitized by Coogle
THE HISTOllY OF
~dge, close to the stone, two operative brethre~
came, and, with their assistance, the Grand-Master-
turned the sto11e, and laid it in its bed. After
it was laid, he, with the substitute upon his right
hand, placing himself in the east, and the war-
dens standing on the wtst, the square, the plumb,
the level, and the mallet, were successively de-
livered to the substitute, and by him to the
Grand-Master, one always before another. They
were delivered back in ~he same manner to the
persons by whom they were borne. He applied
the plumb to the several edges of the stone;
the level above the stone, in several positions,
and with the mallet he gave the stone three
knocks ; on this the brethren gave three hu1.zas.
The anthem \\"a~ played again, and the cornu-
copia, and two silver vessels, were brought from
'the table on which they were placed before the
Grand-Master when in his chair, the coqlucopia
delivered to the substitute, the silver vessels to
the two wardens. When the anthem was ended,
the cornucopia, and the two vessels, were suc-
cessively presented by the Substitute-Master to
the Grand-Master, and he, according to ancient
ceremony, poured out the corn, wine, and oil, on
the stone, saying, " May the bountiful hand of
,, Heaven ever supply this town with abundanceof
" com, wine, and oil, and all the other conveni-
'~ encies of life." This being succeedes by three
huzzas, the anthem was again played, and, when
finished
o~9,tized by Googl~..;:...,
I
FREE MASONR.Y.
finished, the Grand-Chaplain, (the Reverend Mr
l\1acgill), repeated these words, " As we have
" now laid this foundation~stone, may the Grand
·~ Architect of the Universe, of his kind provi-
~ dence, enable us to carry on and finish what
'f we have now begun ; and may he be a guard
" to this place, and the town in general, and
" preserve it from decay and ruin to the latest
., posterity." The ceremony was closed with
a short prayer for the fraternity of maions, and
the people. The anthem was again played, and
the Grand-Master returned to his chair ; the
brethren expressing their applause by repeated
hu1.1.as. All the ships in the harbour had their
colours displayed, and fired several rounds of can-
non. The ceremony being now over, the brethren
went in procession from the ~ay to the King's
Arm's Tavern, the ypungest lodges falling.ba<lk,
and allowing the Grand Lodge to pass, and the
senior lodges following them in their proper or-
~er, where an elegant entertainment was pro-
Yided for them.
A LETTER was received by the Grand-Secre~
tary from the Ancient Grand Lodge of England,
~ontaining the following resolutions which they
p~d adopted.
~solwd,
Digitized by Google
THE HISTORY OF
" Rtl6lfJed,
" THAT it is the opinion of this Grand Lodge,
" that a brotherly connection and correspon-
" dence with the Right Worshipful Grand
" Lodge of Scotland will be found productive
" of honour and advantage to the fraternity
" in general.
" Ordered,
•• TnAT the Grand-Secretary shall transmit the
" names of the officers of this Grand Lodge to
" the Sectetary of the Grand Lodge of Scot-
" land yearly, or as often as any new change
" is made; together with such information as
" may tend to the honour and interest of the
" ancient craft; and that all such information
" or correspondence shall be conveyed in the
" most respectful tenns, such as may suit
" the honour and dignity of both Grand
" Lodges.
" Ordered,
· " THAT no mason (who has been made under
" the sanction of the Grand Lodge of Scot-
" land) shall be admitted a ntember, nor par-
" take of the general charity, without having
•• first produced a certificate of hi~ good be-
•• haviour from the Secretary of the Grand
" Lodge of Scotland : but, upon producing
' 1 such certificate, he shall receive all the ho-
" nour
Digitized by Google iJIII'-
- - ~- ,___ ¢'1
~EE MASONilY.
•• nour due to a faithful brother of the same
.. household with us. By order,
Signed
" WILLIAM DICKEY, G. Sec."
" To the Right Worshipful '2_
the Grand Lodge of Scotland." 5
TH.E Grand Lodge ord.
ered Mr Macdougall their
Grand-Secretary, to inform the Grand Lodge of
England, that they had received their resolutions,
and to assure them, that it should be laid before
the Grand Lodge next quarterly communication,
as it was first presented to the Committee.
XXXVII. GRAND ELECTION, NO'I1. 30. 1772.
Patrick Earl of Dumfries, Grand-Master.
His Grace the Duke of ,Athol, Grand-Master Elut.
The Hon. Cot Napier, Deputy Grand-_Master.
Dr John Cairnie, Substitute Grand-Master.
Andrew Balfour, Esq. Senior Grand-Warden.
William Barclay, Esq. Junior Grand-Wardm.
James Hunter, Esq. Grand-Treasurer.
Alexander Macdougall, Esq. Grand-Secretary.
Mr John Madore, Grand-Chaplain.
Mr David Bolt, Grand-C/erl.
IT was reported to the brethren, that the Grand
Lodge of England, according to the old constitu..
tioo, .
Digitized by Google
......--··--·- --
'£HE HISTORY OF
tion, had, on the 2d of September last, passed a
resolution and order relative to a constant corres-
pondence betwixt them and the Grand Lodge of
Scotland, a copy of which had been lately trans-
mitted by their secretary, along with a letter, con-
taining the names of their officers, to the sec~ta·
ry of this Grand Lodge.
THE resolution and letter being read, the Grand
Lodge were of opinion, that the brotherly in~er­
course and correspondence, which the Right Wor-
shipful the Grand Lodge of England were desirous
to establish, would be serviceable to both Grand
Lodges, and productive of honour and advantage
to the fraternity in general. They therefore
Order~d, "THAT the Grand Secretary do transmit
" to the secretary of the Grand Lodge of Eng-
" land, the names of the officers of the Grand
" Lodge of Scotland, elected this day ; and
" shall henceforth transmit the names of the
" grand officers yearly, or as often as any n~\V
" change is made, and shall lay such letters,
•' orders, or information, as he may, from time
" to time, receive from the Grand Lodge of
" England, before this Grand Lodge, their
" quarterly communications, or standing com-
" mittee : And also shall transmit such infor-
" mation as may tend to the honour and ad-
" vantage of the craft, according as he shall be
"by
o;9,tizedbyGoogle _tlfJ
-- - - -- ---~
---~ -- ,....--~---...---..--~--==-----==
F.REE MASONRY.
" by them directed ; and that he assures the
" Right Worshipful the Grand Lodge of Eng-
" land, in the most respectful manner, of the
" desire which the Gra~t<L Lodge of Scotland.
" have, to cultivate a connection with them,by
" a regular correspondence, for the interest of
" the ancient craft, suitable to the honour and
" dignity of both·Grand Lodges."
Ordered, " -
THAT no mason, made under the sane.
" tion of the Grand Lodge of England acco~d­
" ing to the old institution, shall be admitted
" a member of the Gr<lnd Lodge of Scotland,
" nor partake of the general charity, without
" having first produced a certificate, .of his good
" behaviour, from the secretary of the Grand
· " Lodge ofEngland ; but upon producing such
" certificate,_be s1taU.receive all the honours
" and bounty due to a faithful brother. of the
" same household with .us.''
" By order of the Grand Lodge .of Scotland,
"ALEx•.MACnouaALL, Grrpul Secretary."
." To the Right Worshipful the
Grand Lodge of England."
1>d
'·
XfX.Vlii.
Digitized by Google
THE HISTORY OF
XXXVIII:GRAND ELECTION, No'fJ. 30 1773·
His Grace the Duke of Athol, Grand-Master.
William Barclay, Esq. Dtputy Grand-Master.·
Richard Tod, Esq. Suhstitut~ Grand-Master.
]. Bo.swell, Esq. of Auchinleck, Senior Grand-Wardnr.
Hon. Henry Erskine, Junior Gran~Warden.
James Hunter, Esq. Grand-Tnasur~r.
Alexander Macdougall, Esq. Grand-Secretary.
Mr John Maclure, Grand-Chaplain.
Mr David Bolt, Grand-Clerk.
No important events occurred during this
year.
XXXIX. GRAND ELECTION, Nov. 30. 1774.
David Dalrymple, Esq. Grand-Mast~r•
. William Barclay, Esq. Dtput1 Grand-Master.
James Rennie, Esq. Suhstitutt Grand-Master.
James Geddes, Esq. Senior Grand-Wardm.
William Smith, Esq. Junior Grand-Warden.
Jam~s Hunter, Esq. Grand-Trtasurer.
William Mason, Esq. Grand-Secretpry.
Mr John Maclure, Grand-Chaplain.
·Mr D:Jvid Bolt, Grand-Clerk.
A few days before the Grand Election, the fra-
ternity were deprived of their Grand-Master, by
the death of his Grace the Duke of Athol•
• . XL.
__,...____~~ ·- _ Dig,tized by G_
ooglem
- - · _ _ _;;,
_____
-
FREE MASONRY. I
XL. G~AND ELECTION, NO'!J. 30. 1775·
David Dalrymple, Esq. Grand-MtUter.
Alexander Earl of Balcarras, Grand-Mas~tr El,t1.
William Barclay, Esq. Deputy Grand-Mnrter.
James Rennie, Esq. Substitute Grand-Masttr,
James Geddes, Esq. Stnior Grand-Wardm.
William Smith, Esq. Junior Grand-Wardrn.
James Hunter, Esq. Grand-Treasurer.
William Mason, Esq. Grand-&crdary.
Mr John Maclure, Grand-Chaplain!'
Mr David Bolt, Grand-Ckrl.
ZIJ
So~x differences having arisen, in the course of
this year, between the two Grand I.odges of Eng-
land, those who denominate themselves the An.
cients, submitted the case to the Grand Lodge of
Scotland, who, from motives ofdelicacy, declined
to intermeddle in the affair.
XLI. GRAND ELECTION, Nov. 30. 1776.
Sir William Forbes, Bart. of Pitsligo, Grand-Marter.
J. Boswell, Esq. of Auchinleck, Deputy Grand-Marter.
Nathaniel Spens, Esq. Substitute Grand-Master.
Simon Fraser, Esq. Smior Grand-Warden.
David Maxwell, Esq. Junior Grand-Wardtn.
Jamea Hunter, Esq. Grand-Treasurer.
William Mason, Esq. Grand-&crdar;•.
Mr John Maclure, Grand-Chaplain.
Mr David Bolt~ Grand-Clerk.
Ddz At
Digitized by Google
:2.12 THE HISTORY OF.
At a meeting of the Grand Lodge on 'tpe 21st
June 1776, the Grand-Master intimated to th~
brethren, that the lprd Provost and Magistrates,
together with the Professors of the University',
and the' Masters of the High-School, had fixed
ppon the 24th ofJune for laying the foundation-
.stone of the High-School, and that they requested
the assistance of the fraternity on that occasion~
To this request the Grand .T,.odge ~greed.
When the appointed day arrived, the ceremony
was conducted in the following manner.
ON June 24th, the foundation-ftone of the
High-School was laid, with great solemnity, by
Sir William Forbes, Bart. Grand-Master of Scot-
land, in presence of the Lord Provost and·Ma.;
gistrates, ~he Principal and Professors of the Uni,.
v~rsity, the Rector, Masters, and Scholars of the
High-School, ar.d the Masters, Officers, and Bre..
thren of all the Lodges of Free Masons in the
city and neighbourhood, besides an innumerable
croud of spectators.
ALL the Office-Bearers of the Grand Lodge.met
in the Parliament House ; the Lord Provost and
Magistrates assembled in the Council-Chamberi
the Professors ol; the University in the Gold-
smiths' Hall; the Rector, Masters, and Scholars,
in the New Church : and the Grand Lodge and
Brethren in the . Parliament House. At two
o'clock
o;9,tizedbyGoogle Ifill""
- -~- ~
o•ciOck~ tbe· Procession·advanced in the following
order.
A party of the City-Guard to olear the way..
The Lord Provost and Magistrates in their
robes, with their Regalia before them, carried·by
their proper officers.
The Principal and Professors of the University
in their gowns, &.c.
The Rector of the High-School in his gown,
at the liead of his class, the Scholars three and
three.
The four Masters in their gowns, each at the
head of his d~, the Scholars three an~ three.
The Lodges in their order, the youngest Lodg'
first. . · '
St Laurence's, Laurence-kirk.
New Edinburgh Kilwinning.
Carron Lodge•
. StJames's, Edinburgh.
Roy~l Arch, ditto.
Morton's Lodge, Lerwick,
~tiding Royal Arch.
Thistle Lodge, Edinburgh_.
Edinburgh St Aadrew's,
Ditto St Luke,
Ditto St Giles.
Ditto St David's.
Ditto Journeymen Masons.
Canongate and Leith, Leith and Canongate.
Canongate K.ilwinning. ·
~dinburgh St Mary's Chapel.
The
Digitized by Google
THE HISTORY OF
' The Tyler walking before his respective lodge
with a naked sword.
Music.
Brethren of each lodge, three and three.
Stewards with their rods. ·
Treasurer and Secretary.
Senior Wardens, Junior Wardens, with their
Batons.
The Past-Master, Master, Deputy-Master.
Grand Lodge in the following order :
The Golden Compasses,carried by an Operative
Mason.
Six Grand Stewards, with rods, two and two.
Golden Square, Level, and Plumb, carried by
three Operative Masons.
Band of Music.
A Body of Masons attending the Grand-Mas-
ter, three and three.
The remainder of the Gran(! Stewards, with
Rods, two and two.
Master of the Grand Stewards.
Grand Secretary, Chaplain, Clerk.
Cornucopia and Golden Mallet, carried by the
Grand Tyler, and an Operative Mason.
Senior Grand Warden, Junior Grand Warden,
with their batons.
Deputy Grand-Master, Treasurer, Substitute-
Master.
Past Grand-Master, Grand-Master, and another
Past Master.·
Noblemen and Gentlemep who haye been for-
merly Grand-Masters.
A detachment of soldiers.
Digitized by Google
;,5;;3;;.-..~·.,----"':3:--·--- -- - - ----- ~ -..-.:::;....,..&.__,4.......
......,.__ -,...~~~---- --~ - - - - --=--..-------~----;----.,
FR.EE MASONRY.
A.nEll proceeding down the High-Street and
Blackfriars' Wynd, they arrived at the High-
School-Yards, and entered the area where the
·New School-House was to be built. The Lord
Provost and Magistrates, the Professors of the
University, and the Scholars of the High-School,
arranged themselves on the right side, and the
Brethren on the left; thus forming two lines,
through which the Grand Lodge walked up to
the south-east comer of the foundation where the
stone was to he deposited. On a table erected
for the purpose, the jewels of the order were
laid ; the Grand-Master, the Substitute Grand-
Master, and Grand Wardens, then walked up to
the ground where the stone lay. In the stone,
wherein five holes were cut, the Substitute
Grand-Master put some coins_
of his pre~ent Ma-
jesty's reign, and covered them with a plate,' on
which the following inscription was engraved.
Ex cura posteritatis,
Ut literae humaniores,
Virtusque ilia quae olim in gente
Romana enituit,
Diu a juventute Scoriae coJantur ;
Haec Schola,
Munificentia Publica,.
Quam optime reficitur,
Sub auspiciis
Joannis Dalrymple Consulis t
Nee non,
·Seuatus Edinenais,
Primum la~idem posuit.
- Digitized by Google
~
~
....,.
,.
•
-
•
•'
~
THE· HJSTOilY oF
Gulielmus Forbes, Esq•. Aar.
In Ardlitecton. Scot. Rep. Curio
.Max. · ·
·A. S. H.
1777,
~rae ArcbUtectonicae
5777·
THE Grand..Master then s_tanding on· the east,
·with the ·Substitute on .eli 'right hand, and the
Grand Wardens ofltlthe west, the square, the
plumb, the level, and ·the maMet, were ·succes-
sively delivered by an operative to·theo-Substi-
tute, and·by-him to the Grand:..Master, who ap;
plied ~he s~uare'to that part of tb~·stone which
was square, the.p1~te' the s~eftl edges, the
le"tel above the Sf'~·n seveThl positions, and
witli.,..,the ~allet..;~ve_ th~~: !mocks, s~ying,
" May-.-._,se· Gran~Arch1tect of the Umverse
" ~rant a1>lessing on this foundation-stone which
" we' have now laid, and, by his providence,
" enable us to finish this and every other work
" which may be undertaken for the. embellish-
" ment and advantage of this city." On this
the brethren gave three huz?.aS. The cornuco-
pia and two silver vessels were then brought from
the table, and delivered the cornucopia to the
Substitute, and the two vessels to thi Ward~ns,
which were successively presented to the Grand-
Master; who, according to an ancient ceremony,
poured on the stone the corn, the wine, and
the oil, that they con.taii\e~, .s.aying, " May the
al.L.
_...,.__.,._ _-~- __-~~izedbyGoogl_
~___
Q_I
-.-...-
FREE MASONRY• 217
.. all-bou11teous Author of Nature bless this city
" with an abundance of corn, wine, and oil,
" and with all the necessaries, conveniencies, and
" comforts of life ; and may tpe same Almighty
" Power preserve it from ruin and decay to the
"' latest posterity." On this the brethren gave
three buuas.
THE Grand-Master afterwards addr~ssed him-
self to the Lord Provost, Magistrates, the Prin-
cipal and . Professors, the Rector and Masters,
and the Brethren, as follows.
" My Lord Provost, and·Gentlemen qf the Magis-
" tracy, Reverend Principal and Professors qf
" the University qfEdinburgh,
" IN the name of the Grand Lodge of Scot-
" lana, and of the ancient and honourable fra-
" ternity of Free and Accepted Masons, as well
" as in my own, I beg leave to return our united
" thanks for the honour this day done us by
" your presence at laying this foundation-stone.
" May the city of Edinburgh continue to be
" blessed with able and upright Magistrates,
" ever watchful for the public good; and may
" this University, now so celebrated over all the
" world, be at all times equally happy in Pro-
" fessors, whose learning and abilities may not
11 only preserve, but add an additional lustre to
E e " that
/
Digitized by Google
218 THE HISTORY OF
" that reputation which she has, through your
" means, so justly acquired.
" WITH the prosperity both of the City and
" the University, I consider this work, now so
" happily begun, to be most intimately connect:
" ed; for,· in this seminary of learning, the foun·
" dation is laid of all useful knowledge ; and
" there the minds of youth receive impressions
" which often determine the fate of all their fu-
" ture fortunes, As a citi1.en of Edinburgh,
" therefore, as well as a member of that commit-
" tee to whose care the conduct of this building
" has been intrust~d, I beg leave to express my
" own and the committee's warmest acknowledg-
" ments, not only to you, my Lord Provost, and
" the gentlemen here present, but to all those
" ~r&ons of distinction in both kingdoms, who
" have already so generously contributed to the
" erecting, of this ·School-house. After having
" fortunately surmounted a variety of obstacles,
" which unavoidably attend the commencement
" of every public plan, we _rejoice in the idea of
" seeing it now carried on with ardour, and
" without interruption. As good citizens, we
" are happy with the prospect, of not only pro.,
" mating that most important of all objects, the
" public education of youth, but of adding even
" somewhat to the grandeur of this city, by a
" building, which, though meant to be void of
'' all superfluous C'rnament, wil1, we. trust, ex·
" .hibi~
FREE MASONRY.
" hibit a decency of appearance well suited to
" the purpose it is intended to serve ; and, as
" parents, we fondly flatter ourselves with the
" pleasing hope, that our children, and our chil-
" dren's children, to the latest generation, will
" reap the benefit, and feel the happy effects of
" your public-spirited and well-timed munifi-
" cence.
" To you, Mr Rector, and to your Colleagues
" of the High-School, I am happy in this oppor-
" tunity of publicly expressing the approbation
" of every citiz.en for the uncom~on attention
" you have hitherto bestowed on the education
" of the young gentlemen committed to your
" care. The high character which your school
" has acquired, can receive no stronger testi.
" mony than f~;om the number of scholars now
" present; and I persuade myself, we have this
" day exhibited a spectacle the most pleasing of
" all others to the city ; for no sight can be so
" interesting to a community in general, and to
" parents in particular, as the·appearance of so
" many comely boys as have walked in proces-
" sion to attend our solemnity. I cannot doubt
" that you will earnestly endeavour to preserve
" the l)igh reputation of this seminary of learn-
" ing, by tl;le utmost ex~rtion of your z.eal and
" assiduity ; that you will make it subservient,
' not c:mly to the acquiring oi languages, which,
" though the most obvious, is not the sole object
E e 2 " of
220 THE HISTORY OF
" of a grammar-school, but that you will be ever
u watchful to instil into the minds of your
" youthful charge the true principles of virtue
- " and religion, that they may thereby be ren-
" dered worthy men, and valuable members of
" society.
" To the Right \Vorshipful Masters, the Wor-
" shipful Wardens, and all my worthy Brethren
" who have honoured me with so very numer~us
_" and respectable an attendance in my public
" character on this occasion, I beg _leave to return.
". my warmest thanks. It shall ever be my pride
" and my pleasure to express my gratitude, by
" contributing all in my power to the honour
'' and the interest of that Society, to the head of
., which your partiality has exalted me, As we
" are all equally interested in this important (I
·u may even say national) work, which we have
" now begun, permit me earnestly to recom-
" mend to you all, my Brethren, to exert your-
" selves, as far as the influence of. each indivi-
" dual may extend, in procuring contributions
" towards carrying it on ; for, although the
" sums already subscribed be indeed considerable,
" they are yet far short of the money that will
" be required to bring it to a happy condu-
ce sion."-The brethren then gave three hu21.as,
which concluded the ceremony.
No ceremony in this city, for many years past,
na.~
Digitized by Google
FREE MASONRY. 221
has yielded such ,heartfelt satisfaction to the in-
habitants. The importance of the objects, the
dignity of the procession, the numerous train of
brethren, and, above all, the charming exhibition ·
of above 350 fine boys afforded a most pleasing
spectacle.
THE brethren afterwards repaired to their se-
veral lodges, to celebrate the festival of St John,
and spent the evening with that harmony and
decency peculiar to the order.
XLII. GRAND ELECTION, D~c. 1. •777•
· Sir William Forbes, Bart. Grand-Ma.tter.
His Gnce the Duke of Athol, Grand-Ma.tt~r Eltct.
James BO&well, Esq, Dtputy Grand-MDJt~r.
Nathaniel Spens, Esq. 8uh1titut~ Grand-Ma.tttr.
Simon Fraser, Esq. s~nior Grand-Wardm.
David.Maxwell, Esq. Junior Grand-Wardm.
James Hunter, Esq. Grand-Tr~aJurer.
William Mason, Esq. Grand-Stcrttar!•
Mr John Maclure, Grtmd-Chaplain.
Mr Datid Bolt, Grand-Cierle.
On the 24th of January 1778, William Sin-
clair, Esq. of Roslin, died at the age of 78. frr
consequence of the loes of this amiable man, and
7.ealous mason, the Grand-Master ordered a fune-
ral lodge to be held on the 14th of ·February.
Above four hundred of the _
Brethren, dressed in
deep mourning, ~having assembled on that occa-
sion,
oi9,tizect by Google
THE HISTORY OF
sion, Sir William Forbes, Bart. as Grand-Master,
delivered the following funeral oration :
" Right worshipful Masters, worshipful lf.'ardens,
" and worthy Brethren,
" I SHOULD h~ve been greatly wanting in my
" duty, had I not called you together on so so-
" lemn an occasion as the death of our late l\1ost
" Worshipful Grand-Master and worthy Brother
" St Clair of Roslin, to wltom our craft lies under
" very high and peculiar obligations.
" FuNERAL orations are but too often perverted
" from their proper purposes; and, instead of ex-
" hibiting faithful portraits of departed merit, are
" prostituted to the arts of pompous declamatiort
" and unmeaning panegyric. It would be no very
" difficult task for one in this manner to ring
" changes on a set of well-sounding words, and
" to make a display of all the epithets, and all
" the virtues, that can adorn a human character.
" But this would neither do honour to my audi-
" ence, nor to myself; far less to the person
" whose death we now meet to commemorate.
" As something, however, is probably expected
" from me, in the office which I have now the
" honour to fill, I shall beg leave to lead your
" attention for a few minutes, \\'hilst I recal to
" your remembrance what he was, and the grati-
" tude
Digitized by Google
FREE MASONRY.
•• tude which,..,.~ owe to the memory of this wor-
" thy brother.
,. DESCENDED from an ancient and illustrious
· " house, whose heroes have often bled in their
" country's cause, he inherited their intrepid spi-
" rit, united with the milder ,;rtues of humanity,
" and the polished maimers of a gentleman. Ath-
" letic and active, he delighted in all the manly
" exercises ; and in all of them excelled most of
" his contemporaries. Ardent in his pursuits, he
" steadily persevered in promoting the interests
'' o( every public society, whether of business or
" amusement, of which he was a member, and
•' thereby justly obtained pre-eminence in eacli.
" OF this laudable spirit on the part of our
" worthy brother, no society can afford a more
" remarkable instance than our own. Among
" other marks of royal approbation conferred on
" his ancestors for their faithful and valuable ser-
" vices, they enjoyed the dignity of Grand Mas-
" ter-Mason, by charters of high antiquity, from
" the Kings of Scotland. This hereditary honour
" continued in the family of Roslin until the··
" year 1736; when, with a disinterestedness of"
" which there are few examples, he made a vo-
" luntary resignation of the office into the hands
" of the craft in general ; by which, from being
'' hereditary, it has ever since been elective; and,
" irt consequence of such a singular act of gene-
" rosity.
Digitized by Google
THE HISTORY OP
" rosity it is, that, by your suffrages, I have now
" the honour to fill this chair. His zeal, how-
." ever, to promote the welfare of our society,
" was not confined to this single instance.; for he
" continued. almost to the very clo$e of life,
" on all occasions, where his influence or his ex-
" ample could prevail, to extend the spirit of rna-
" sonry, and to increase the number of the bre-
" thren. It is therefore with justice that his name
" should ever be dear to the craft, and that we
" lament the loss of one who did such honour to
". our institution.
" To these more conspicuous and public parta
" of his character, I am happy to be able to add,
" that he possessed in an eminent degree the vir-
" tues of a benevolent and good heart ;-virtues
" which ought ever to be the distinguishing
" marks of a true brother.
" THoUGH those ample and flourishing posses-
" sions which the house of Roslin once inherited,
" had, by the mutability of human things, al-
" most totally mouldered away, so as scarcely to
" leave to him the vestiges of their ancient and
" extensive domains, yet he 'not only supported,
" with decent dignity, the appearance of a gen-
" tleman, but he extended his bounty to many ;
'' and, as far as his fortune permitted, was ever
" ready to assist those who claimed the benefit
N of his protection. If, in the course of his trans-
" actions
FREE MASONRY.
•• actions in business, his schemes were not al-
" ways successful ;-if a sanguine temper some-
" times led him too far in the .pursuit of a fa-
" vourite, plan, whatever might be urged against
" his prudence, none ever suspected the rectitude
" of his principles; and if at any time he was
" unintentionally the cause of misfortune to
" others, it was never without his being, at the
4' same time, himself a sufferer.
'
" AFTER this brief, but I hope just and well-
" merited eulogium, permit me to chim your at~
" tention a little longer to a few reflections
" which naturally present themselves on such an
u occasion ; and which, therefore, I hope, .will
" not be thought foreign to the purpose of our
" present meeting. I need hardly remark, that
" commemorations such as this are meant not
" solely in honour of the dead, but chiefly of ad-
" vantage to the living. Our worthy brother is
" now gone to that land, where, in respect of the
" passions and prejudices of mortals, all things
" are forgotten ; where he is far removed from
" the applause or censure of the world. But
" whatever can tend to enhance the falue of de-
" parted merit, must, to an ingenuous mind, prove
" an incitement to the performance of praise-
" worthy actions ; and if we make the .proper
" use of this recent instance of mprtality, our
•• brother's death may prove-Of-higher utility to
F f '' us,
Digitized by Google
)
-=- •
226 THE HiSTORY OF
" us, than all those advantages for which in his
" lite time we stood indebted to him.
" J\IY younger brethren will permit me to re-
" mark to them, that although this our Most
" Worshipful Brother attained to that age which
" David has marked as the .boundary of human
" life*, at the same time without experiencing
" any great degree of that" labour and sorrow,"
" which the royal prophet has recorded as the
" inseparable concomitants of so advanced a pe-
" riod ;--although his mental faculties remained
" unimpaired to the last, and even his bodily
. .
" strength had suffered but a slight and very late
" decay ; we are not to look on this as a com-
" mon instance, nor to expect that we shall cer-
" tainly be indulged with an equal longevity; for
" hairs so grey as his are permitted but to a few,
" and tew can boast of so singular an exemption
" from the usual uneasiness of adYanced age. Let
" us not, therefore, vainly flatter ourselves that
" we have many years unexhausted, in whicli we
" shall have time sufficient for the performance
" of the duties peculiar to our respective stations;
" nor from' this idea delay those tasks, which, al-
" though of infinite importance, we may be dis-
" posed to postpone a little longer, because they
" are not perhaps of a very pleasing nature.
I
• 78 )'Cf!r~.
Digitized by Google
-
-- ·----~~--
FREE MASONRY. 227
" Ir this instance of our aged brother should
" seem to contradict my assertion, I am able tb
" confirm it by another recent event, which but
" too fully proves the justness of my observation.
n The hallowed earth .is but newly laid over the
" remains of a Noble Lady*, cut off in the mom.:.
" ing of her days. Blest with health, with youth,
" with beauty, riches, titles; beloved by all who
" knew her : yet all these " blushing honours''
" could avail her nothing ;-they quickly vanish-
" ed; and, " like the baseless fabric of a vision,
" left not a wreck behind." So sudden, so unsus-
" pected was her fate ; so little thought she of
" instant dissolution, that she drew her last breath
" without a moment's time to say, "May heaveR
" receive my parting spirit." An awful warning
" this ! May it strike such forcible convictiQR
" on our minds of the uncertainty of all subluna-
" ry things, that we may study to live with inno-
" cence like hers, lest our fate may steal upon us
" equally sudden and equally unlooked-for!
" To my brethem who, like myself, have pass-
" ed the middle period of life, allow me to say,
" that by having already ·spent thirty or forty
" years in this world, our chance of making a
" much longer residence in it is greatly diminish-
" ed; and even the longest life with which our
" hopeS'·may flatter us, will shortly .come to an
F f 2 " end.
• Countess of Eglinton, aged 21 years.
Digitized by Google_
~----------..~------- -
mE HISTO.IlY Ol'
'' end. When we look forward to the ~rs yet
.,. to come, the space indeed, in fancy's eye, seems
•• almost immeasurable; but when we look back
" on the same space already past, how doa it ap,-
u pear contracted alm<;>st to nothing. Happy if
'' we can look back on something better than a
" tot•l blank. If we can discover, on a c:aref~
" and impartial review, that the general tenor of
•· our conduct has been virtuous, our anxiety to
" live many Jllore days should be less; but ifwe
&J find nothing, 'by which to mark our ibrmer
" years, but scenes of guilt or folly, the time w~
" have yet to spend on eanh may prove too tbort
" to expiate them ; and we may be called out of
f' the world before the great business of life be
·" finished, perhaps even before it be p~rly be-
~ gun. I~ is, therefore, our indispensible duty to
" employwell that period which may yet be grant-
" ed to us, and not to waste in idleness those
" precious hours that heaven has lent us for the
" noblest purposes; and of whlch we must one
" day render a severe account~
" MY brethren who are farthest advaneed iq
" year~ will not, I hope, be offended, if they
" are reminded of their mortality by a brother
" younger than themselves; because it is by one
ff who has but lately escaped f1'91D the gates of
" the grave, and exhibited, in his own person, a
!' striking instance in bow few hours the highest
" health
oig1tized by Google
- - ·- ~ "
- -- ~ -~ -
l'tlEI: MASONllY.
" health and st~ngtb u1ay be reduced to a state
'' of the lowest debility. It has pleased heaven,
u however, to spare me a little longer, in order
" to show, perhaps, that in tbe hands of the AI-
" mighty alone are the issues of life and death ;
'' and that not a single mOment of our mortal
" exisrence but the present can we call our own.
!' This uncertainty of life is, indeed, of all re-
"' ilections the most obvious; yet, though the
" most important, .it is unhappily too often the
•• most neglected. What a damp would come ,
" OY'e:l" our rpirits, what agitations would be rais-
t' ed even in this assembly, were the book of mte
~ to be unrolled to our view. IfProvidence should
,, permit us to penetrate this m<mtent into flltu-
,, rity, and to foresee the &.te of ourselves and
~ others only to tlle encl tX the present year, some
f' of us, who, perhaps, suppose death to be at a
'' great distance, would see him already at the
'' very dooc. Some who, in full set;urity, are
'' dreaming of a long course of years yet~o come,
t' would find that they have already entered on
- ~ their last • ; and that before it come to a dose~
" they, like our departed brother, shaii·be min-
'' gled with the dust. A great part .of this asaem-
'' bly, by the~ of nature, will probably sur-
" vi'n' a little longer; but it is morally certain
'' that some of us, before the sun has made an-
" other annual revolution, will be removed hence
.. tQ
f Riddoch's sermons.
'
Digitized by Google
230 ,.HE HISTORY OF
" to that unchangeable state, where our doom
" will be fixed forever.. And although heaven
" has wrapt in impenetrable darkness, who they
" are that shall pass through the vale of the sha-
" dow of death, during that short period, in order
" that we may all live in a state of habitual pre-
" paration, yet who can have the presumption to
" say, that he himself shall not be the first to vi-
" sit " that undiscover'd country, from whose
" bourne no traveller returns."
" How careful, therefore, ought we to be not
" to disappoint the wise design of this mysterious
" secrecy, nor pervert what is meant to keep us
" perpetually on our guard into a source of fatal
u security; for the day will most assuredly come,
" (whether sooner or later is of little importance
" to us), when we likewise shall be numbered
" with those that have been. May we all endea-
" vour, therefore, so to live daily, as we shall fer-
~· vently wish we had lived when that awful rna-
" ment overtakes us in which our souls shall be
" required of USJ May we study to act in such
" a manner, that our practice may prove the best
" <;omment on the principles of our craft ; and
" thereby teach the world that charity and bro-
" therly love, integrity of heart, and purity of
" manners, are not less the distinguishing cha-
" racteristics' of masonry than of religion. Then
•• may we piou&ly hope, that when a period even
" still more awful than the hour of our dissolu-
" tion
Digitized by Google
-- --·-----~~-
l
I
I
~REE MASONRY.
" tion shall arrive, when the last trumpet sl}all
" sound, and the dead sJlall be raised incorrupt-
" ible, when our scattered atoms shall be collected,
" and we shall all appear in the p~esence of the
" Lord God Omnipotent, " the high and lofty
" One who inhabiteth eternity," that our trans-
" gressions will be mercifully forgiven, and that
" the Grand Architect of the Universe will be
" graciously pleased to give us rest from all our
" labours, by admission into the celestial frater..,
" nity of angels,~and the spirits of just men made
" perfect.
" To Him be glory, honour, and praise, for
" ever and ever. Amen."
AFTER the above was delivered, the Resurrec-
tion-hymn and several other select·pieces ofsacred
poetry were sung by the brethren. The whole was
conducted with a ~egree of solemnity and pro-
priety suitable to the nature of their meeting.
The following beautiful lines, composed for the
occasion, were sung to the tune of Roslin Crutle.
Frail man! how like the meteor's blaze,
How evanescent are thy days ;
Protracted to its longest date,
How short the time indulg'd by fate.
No force death's potent arm can brave~
Nor wisdom's self elude the grave:
Where'er our varioU$ journies tend,
To thiJ we soon or late descend.
Thithe,
· o;9,tizedbyGoo,gle
-......-G!A:: • --
. . ~-~
THE HISTORY Of
'I'bitber from mortal eyes tetir'd,
Though oft beheld and still admir'd,
St Clair to dust iu claims rcsigu,
And in sublimer regions shin~s.
Lc:t us, wi.om ties fraternal bind,
:Beyond the rest of human kind,
Like StClair livo, like St Clair die,
Then jom th' Eternal Lodge oo high.
XLIIL GRAND ELECTION, N(lv. 30. I7j8.
John Duke of Athol, Grand-Masttr.
The Hon. Col. James Murray, Deputy Grand-Mastrr.
Nathaniel Spens, Esq. 8uhttitutr Grond-Mattn-.
George Stewart, Esq.&nior Grand-W11rtlm
John Ramsay, Esq. Junior Grand-Wardm.
James Hunter Blait, Esq. Grand-Trtasurn-.
William Mason, Esq. Gra,J-&crttary.
Mr John Madure, Grand-Chaploi11.
Mr Davie Bolt, Gmnd-Cirrl.
IT is remarkable that at this time the Duke of
Athol was Grand~Master both in Scotlt.nd and
England.
XLIV..
Digitized by Google
-- - - -· ""'--.,_JII
-,
FREE .·MASONK.Y.
XLIV. GRAND ELECTION, NI)'IJ, 30, 1 7-
79·
John Duke of Athol, Gt'and-Mastn-.
Earl of Balcarras, Grand-Master .Bkct.
The Hon. Col. Murray, Deputy Grlllfll.MII#tf'•
Nathaniel Spens, Esq. Subrtitutt Gt-and-Marttr.
George Stewart, Esq. Senior Gtand-Warden. ·
John Ramsay, Esq. Junior Grand-Wardm.
James Hunter Blair, Esq. Gran.d-Treasurer.
· . William Mason, Esq. Grand-Secretary.
Mr John Maclure, Grand-Chaplain.
2 33'
\
In the course of this year no important events
occurred.
XLV. GRAND ELECTION, No'IJ. 30,1780.
Alexander Earl of Balcarras, Grand-MaJter.
Lord Haddo, Deputy Grand-Master.
Nathaniel Spens·, Esq. Substitute Grand\Master.
Robert 'Dalziel, Esq. Senior Grand-Warden.
William Farquharson, Esq. Junior Grand-Wardm.
James Hunter Blair, Esq. Grand-Trtast~rer.
William Mason, Esq. Grtmd-&crdsry. •
Mr John Maclure, Grand-Chaplain.
Mr Robert Meikle, Gr'and-Cierl••
No interesting events distinguished thi~ year.
Gg XLVI.
Digitized by Google
--
---
THE HISTORY OF
XLVI. GRAND ELECTION, Nov. 30, 1781.
Alexander Earl of Balcarta9, Grand-Master.
Lord Haddo, Grand-Masln" Elect.
Francis Char:teris, younger of AmU6elJ, Deputy Gr11NI-l•larur.
Nathaniel Spens, Esq. Substitute Gr011d-Master.
Robert Dalziel, Esq. Senior Grand-Warden.
William Farquharson: Esq. Junior Grand-lV11rdcn.
James Hunter Blair, Esq. Grand--Treasurer.
William Mason, Esq. Grand-Secretary.
Mr John Maclure, Grand-Chaplain.
Mr Robert Meikle, Grand-Cierl.
Many new lodges were erected during this year,
and much money distributed among the poor.
XLVII. GRAND ELECTION, Nov. 30, 1782.
David Earl of Buchan, Grand-Master.
Nathaniel Spens, Esq. Deputy Grand-Master.
'William Charles Little, Esq. Substriute Grand-llastcr.
Alexander Ferguson, Esq. Sevior Grand-UTartlen.
Thomas Hay, Esq. Jmrior G;.and-Warden.
James Hunter Blair, Esq. Grand-Treasurer.
William Mason, Esq. Grand-Secretary.
Mr John Maclure, GranJ-Chaplain.
Mr Robert Meikle, Grand-Cierl.
No particular business was transacted in the
coufSe of this year.
XLVIII.
FREE MASONRY.
XLVlll. GRAND ELECTION, D~. 1, 1783.
David Earl of Buchan, Grand-Matter.
Nathaniel Spens, Deputy Grand-Mastd-.
William Charles Little, Esq. S11bstiluu Grand~Marttr.
Alexander Ferguson, Esq. Smiqr Grand-Martn-.
Thomas Hay, Esq. Junior Grand-Warden.
• James Hunter Blair, Esq. Grand-Treasurer.
William Mason, Esq. GrtVId-Secret~ry•.
Mr John Maclure, Grand-Chaplain..
Mr Robert Meikle, Grand-Cieri.
•
A petition was received from several Scotish
masons, who had been commissioned by the Em-
press of all the Russias to settle in her capital,
requesting a cbarter of erection for a lodge at St.
Petersburgh, under the name of the Imperial
Scotish LOdge of St. Petersburgh ; which was
unanimously granted,
XLIX. GRAND ELECTION, Nov. 30, t 784.
l.ord Hadde~ Grand-Master.
Nathaniel Spens, Esq. Deputy Grand-Master.
Thomas Hay, Esq. Subrtziute Grand-Master.
George Gordon, Esq. Senior Grand-Warden.
William Mackillop, Esq. Junior Grand-Wardt>q.
John Hay, Esq. GrJJnd-Trearurer.
· William Mason, Esq. Grand-SecretarJ'•
1\fr John Maclure, Grand-Chaplain.
Mr Robert Meikle, Gr11nd-Cieri.
Gg2 DURINC,
-- .-
··-- ~=---.,._-
THE HISTORY OF
• DuRI:t-;G this year the Grand: Lodge granted a
confirmation of the Pythagorean Lodge at Anti-
gua.
ON the rst ofAugust r785, the foundation-stone
of the South Bridge was laid with great solemni-
ty by the Right Honourable Lord Haddo, Grand
Master-Mason of Scotland, in presence of the
Right Honourable the Lord Provost and Magis-
trates, a number of nobiEty and gentry, and the
masters, officers, and brethren of all the lodges
of Free Masons in this city and neighbourboo~
besides an innumerable crowd of spectators. At
.half pac;t twelve the procession began from the
Parliament House in the following order~
The Magistrates in tpeir robes.
The Grand Lodge, preceded by a band of mu-
sic, and a band of singers under t~e direction of
Mr Clark.
The lodges according to their seniority, the old-
est lodge walking first.
Orikr if tbe Grand Lodge.
The golden compasses carried by an ope- ·
nitive mason.
Six Grand-Steward~, with rods-two and
two.
Golden-square, level, and plumQ~ carried
.. hy three operative masons.
Band of rnnsic.
A
Digitized by Gooole 111111
·"-·.
... ••ctz..= S:- 0
FREE MASONRY.
A body of masons attending upon the Grand-
Master-three and three.
Remainder of the Grand-Stewards-two and
two.
Master of the Grand Stewards.
Grand Secretary, Chaplain, and Clerk.
The cornucopia and gold¢n mallet, carried by
the tyler of the Grand Lodge, and an operative
mason.
Grand-'"ardens with batons.
Deputy Grand-Master, Treasurer, and Substi-
tute.
Grand Master-Mason of Scotland, supported
by two former Grand-Masters, nobiemen and
gentlemen, who had fo1·merly been Grand.;Mas- ·
t~rs.
A detachment of soldiers,
AFTER proceeding down the High Street and
Niddry's-Wynd, the Lord' Provo~t and Magis-
trates, &c. arranged themselves on the right, the
. . ' '
brethren on the left, The Grand-Master, the Sub-
stitute Grand-Master, and Grand-Wardens, then
walked up to the ground where the stone lay :
In the stone were cut five holes, wherein the Sub-
titute Grand-Master put in some coins of his
present Majesty's reign, and covered ~hem with
11 plate, on which was engraven the following in~
~criptio" :
AMuente
Digitized by Google
,-
THE HISTORY OF
Annuente Deo optimo maxim~,
Regnantc Georgio III. Patte Patriz,
Hujus pontis,
Quo ,·ici extra ma:nia Edinburgi,
Urbi·commode adjungerentur,
Aditumque non indignum tanta urbs haberet,
Primum lapidem posuit
Nobilis vir Gcorgius Dominus Haddo,
Antiquissimi sodalitii Architectonici,
Apud Scotos curio maximus,
Plaudente ampli.s$ima fratrum corona,
lmmensaque populi frequentia
Opus,
Utile civibus, gratum advenis,
Urbi ·decorum, patri~ honestum,
Diu multumque desideratum,
Consule Jacobo Hunter Blair,
lncepti auctore indefesso,
Sanciente Rege Senatuque Britannia:
Approbantibus omnibus,
Tandem inchoatum est
Ipsis Kalendis Augusti,
• A. D. MDCCLXXXV•
...£ra: Architectonic~ 5785.
Q· F. F. Q. S.
'fR'ANSLATION.
.....
BY the l>lessing of Almighty God, in the reign of
6eorgc the Third, the father of his country, the Right
Honourable George Lord Haddo, Grand-Master of the
most ancient fraternity of Free Masons in Scotland,
amidst the acclamations of a grand assembly of the bre-
thren,
o;9,tizedbyGoogle ~
_.....--- --- - - .. - ~
FREE MASONRY. 2 39
.thren, and of a vast concourse of people, laid· the first
stone of this bridge, intended to form a convenient com-
munication between the city of Edinburgh and its sub-
urbs, and an access not ~worthy of such a city.
THIS work, so useful to the inhabitant~ so pleasing
and convenient to strangers, so ornamental to the city, so
creditable to the country, so long and much wanted and
• wished for, was at last begun, with the sanction of the
King and Parliament of Great Britain, and with univer-
sal approbation, in the Provostship of James Hunter
Blair, the author and indefatigable promoter of the un-
dertaking, August the first, in the year of our Lord
1785, and of the rera of masonry 5785. Which may
God prosper.
THE Grand-Master then standing on the east,
with the Substitute on his right hand, and the
Grand-Wardens on the west,the square, the plumb,
the level, and the mallet, were successively de-
livered by an operative te the Substitute, and by
him to the Grand-Master, who applied the square
to that part of the stone which was square; the
plumb to the several edges, the level above the
stone in several positions, and with the mallet,
he gave three knocks, saying : " May the Grand
Architect of the Univcr~e grant a blessing on
this foundation-stone, which we have now laid,
and by his p'rovidence enable us to finish this, and
every other work which may be undertaken for
the embellishment and advantage of this city.''
On this the brethren gave three hu;.r:z.ns.
- - -~- -- --.,
- Digitized by Google
.l -
I.
THE HISTORY OF
THE cornucopia and two silver vessels were
then brought from the table, and ·delivered; the
co~ucopia to the Substitute, and the two vessels
to the Wardens, and were successively presented
to the Grand-Master, who, according to an an-
cient ceremony, poured the corn, wine, and oil,
which they contained, on the stone, saying,
" May the all-bounteous Author of Nature bless
this city with an abwulancc of com, wine, and
oil, and with all the necessaries, conveniencies,
and comforts of life, and may the same Almit;hty
power preserve this city from ruin and decay to
the latest posterity." On this the brethren again
gave three huzzas.
THE Grand-Master afterwards addressed him-
self to the Lord Provo~t and Magistrates, in a
speech suitable to .the occasion ; when the bre-
thren again gave three huLZas, which concluded
the ceremony.
THE Grand-Ma~ter, at laying the t'l1undation~
stone, w;cs supported on the right hand by the
Duke of Bucclellgh, and, on the left bv the Earl
' .
of Ba1carras.
AFTER the foundation-stone was bid, and the an-
them sung, the brethren returned; the whcJe pro-
c~ssion being revcned; and when the juniorJodge
arrived <!t the door of the Parliament House
'
they
· - AZ"JJ s ........... a .: . ..... a 0 . .
' FRE! MASONRY.
they·stopped till the Magistrates, Grand Lodge,
and senior lodge~ passed.
L. GRAND ELECTION, Nfl'll. 30, •'18s.
Lotd Htddo, Gr.,._M.n,..
Hon.F.Charteria,youngerQ£Arniefitld,Gr•nd-MIUt.Ektt~
Nathaniel Spena, Esq. IJI;tlty G,.aiUI-M.mr.
II .
Thomas Hay, Esq. Wni!utt GrMid-M•nw.
George Gordon, Esq. itiiUr Onmtl-Wartkfl.
William Mackillop, Esq. Junit# GrDfld-IYtmfn,.
John Hay, Esq. Grand-TrtaJUrw.
William Mason, Esq. Grand-&crdllry.
Mr John Maclure, Grand-Chaplain.
Mr Robert Meikle, Grand-Citrlt.
A CHARTER ofconfirmation was granted during
this year to the Union ·Lbdge in the island of
St Christophers.
A PETITION having been presented from a dis-
tressed Turk, who, upon examination, was found
to be a brother of the order, he was ordered im-
mediate relief.
DuRING this year there was a correspondence
between the Grand Lodges of Scotland 'and
Berlin.
LI.
-..
Hh
Digitized by Goog{e
THE HISTORY OF
LI. GRAND ELECTION, NOfJ. 30. 1786.
Hon. F. Charteris, younger of Amisfield, Grand-Masttr.
Lord Torphichen, Deputy Grand-MaJttr.
Thomas Hay, Esq. Subrtitute Grand-Marter.
Sir J. Sinclair, Bart. of Stevenson, SenirGrand-JYardnJ.
James Hume, Esq. W. S. Junior Grand-Wardm.
John Hay, Esq. Grand-Trtarin'er.
William Mason, Esq. Grand-Stt:Ntary.
Mr John Maelure, Grand-Chaplain.
Mr Robert Meikle, Grand-Ciirk.
IN the course of this year a charter was granted
to a French Lodge at Aix, in Provence, under
the title of La Douce Harmonie.
Lll. GRAND ELECTION, Not~. 30. 1787. ·
Francis Lord Elcho, Grand-Molter.
Lord Torphicben, Deputy Grand-Molter.
Thomas Hay, Esq. Subrtitute Grand-A1aJter.
Sir John Sinclair of Stevenson, S~niDr Grand-Wardm.
James Hume Esq. Junior Grand-Warden.
John Hay, Esq. Grand-Trearurer.
William Mason, Esq. Grand-Secretary.
Reverend Dr Touch, Grand-C~aplain.
Mr Robert Meikle, Grand-C/wk.
DuRING this year a charter was granted to a
number of brethr:n to hold a lodge at Rouen,
in France, under the title of Ardente Amitii,
and another for the city of Marseilles, under the
name of the Faithful Friend.
LEWIS
oi9,tized :Y Google.-.-J
- ~ ·---- ' ~.•~-- -------=
FR.!E MASONRY. 243
. .
LEWIS CLAVEL, Master of the Scotish.Lodge at
Rauen, in Normandy, was appointed Provincial
Grand-Master over all the lodges in France,
which held oft.\le Grand Lodge of ~cotland. '
• · THE Right Honourable Lord Haddo, in ab-
sence. of the Right Honourable Lord Elcho,
(Grand-Master of Scotland) accompanied by the
- Grand Lodge of Free Masons, with the proper in-
signia, the Lord Prov.ost, Magistrates, Council of
Edinburgh, in their robes, the Magistrates of
Leith, several of the principal inhabitants, &.c.
walked in procession from the Assemby Rooms•.
atLeith, attended by a party of the ,military, and
a band of music from the castle, and laid the
foundation-stone of the Draw-~ridge a~ ~e Har-
bour of Leith, with the usua~ solemnities• . In
the stone were put some coins of his .present
Majesty's reign, covered with· a plate of silver,
on which was engraved the following inscrip-
tion :
Florente
Sub Imperio Georgii m .
. Omni Britannire ora,
Opibus, Artibus, Commercia,
Civitas Edinburgensis,
Veterem suum Letha: Portum,
Navium multitudinem undique
Appellentium,
Jam non capientem
Munifice ampliavit..
f. · D. MDCCLXXXVIII.
H h 2
Vrbis
Digotized by Google
I
Tll.E IUSTORY OF
Urbis Consule IVto J~e Grieve,
Hujus molls primum lapidem poeuit
Nobilis Vir Georgius Dominus Haddo,
Die Septembris, XXJII0 ,
~rz Architectonicz 5788.
ALL the ships in the harl>our displayed their
colours upon this occasion.
LIII. GRAND ELECTION, Dtc. 1. 1788.
Francia Lord Napier, Gra11ti-Mutw.
Lord Binning, D~ty Grand-Matter.
Thomas Hay, Esq. Sub.stitutt Grand-M(lsttr.
J.Stewart,Esq.youngerof Allanhank, Sm. GranJ-TYardtR,
James Wolfe Murray, Esq. Junior Grand-Wartkn.
John Hay, Esq. GranJ-Trtasurer.
William Mason, Esq. Gra~Stcrdary.
R.everend Dr Touch, GranJ-C!Japlt~ill.
Mr Robert Meikle, GranJ-Ckri.
IT wasagreed upon during this year that all gen-
tlemen in the clerical line should p~y no dues for
being initiated into the fraternity.
ON the 16th November 1789, the foundation-
stone of the New College of Edinburgh was laid
\\ith great solemnity by the 1\ight Honourable
Francis Lord Napier, Grand Master-Mason of
Scotland, in presence of the Right Honourable
the ~r~ Provost, Magistrates, and Town Council
' ~f
~ --
Digitized by Google
FlUtE MASONRY• 2.45
of the city of Edinburgh, 'with the Principal, Pro-
fessors, and students of the University of Edin-
burgh, a number of nobility and gentry, and the
m•sters, officers, and brethren of all the lodges of
Free Muons in this city and neighbourhood, be.
sidos an inn.ume.-.ble crowd of spectaton. T~
brethren assembl¢d within the Parliament House
at eleven o'cl<M:k forenoon, to meet the Most
Worshipful Grand Master-Mason. When th•
lodges were amnged, t4e Grand-Master sent no..
tice to the Lord Provott and Magistrates in the
Council-chamber, and to the Principal, Professors,
andstudentsofthe.Universityin the HighCburch;
ppon which notice-the prooessiQil bepn as fol..
lows,
The Principal, Professors,· and Jtudents, with
their mace carried before tbem.
The Lord Provost, Magistrates, and Council,
preceded -by du; sw~rd, mace, &c.
A band of singm, under the direction of Sig-
nior Scltotky.
Tho Grand Stewards.
The Noblemen and Gentlemen attending the
Grand-Master.
The Grand jewels,
The Grand Lodge.
A band of instrumental music.
The lodges according to their seniority, the
lodge of St Mary's Chapei walking first,
Digitized by Google
•
THE HISTORY OF
THE band played the first three song5, and
the singers sung them in going to the cere-
mony. Upon arriving at the spot, where the
stone was laid, the instrumental band played
Co~ let w prepare, till all the lodges had taken
their ground. The Substitute Grand-Master,
assisted by Mr Robert Adam, the architect and
designer of this noble work, proceeded to place
the medals, writings, &c. in the stone. The
Grand-Master then, standing on the east, with
the Substitute on his right hand, and the Grand-
Wardens on the west, the square, the plumb:
the level, and the ·mallet, were successively
delivered by an operative to the Substitute,
and by him to the Grand-Master, who applied
the square to that part of the stone that was
square, the plumb to the several edges, the level
above the stone in several positions, and with the
mallet he gave three knocks, saying, " May the
Grand Architect of the Universe grant a blessing
on this foundation-stone which we have now laid,
and by his providence enable us to finish this and
every other work which may be undertaken for
the eptbellishment and advantage of this city ;" .
on this the brethren gave three huzzas. The cor.,
nucopia and two silver vessels were then brought
from the table, and delivered, the cornucopia 'to
the Substitute, and the two vessels to the War-
dens, and were successively presented to the
Grand-Master, who, according to an ancient cere-:
mony, poured the corn, the wine, and the oil,
which they contained, on the stone, saying, " May
the
m , _: ~-~-_..._.-'-
' ~-""""-- . - -
EiiQ... ... . _.......,.. ..... --~ -
FR.EE MASONRY• 247
the All-B.ounteous Author of Nature bless tbi$
city with abundan.ce 'of corn, wine, and·oil, and
· with all the .necessaries, conveniencies, and com~
forts of life; and may the same Almighty Power
preserve this city from ruin and decay to the
latest posterity;" on this the brethren a~in ga:ve
three huzzas. The Grand-Master afterwards ad·
dressed himself to the Lord Provost and ~gi~
trates as follows :
" My Lord Provost .and Magistrates ofthe city of
· Edinburgh, · ·
" IN compliance with your request, I have now
had :the honour, in the capacity of Grand Ma~ter~
·Mason of Scotland, to lend my aid towards laying
that stone, on which it is your i.ntention to erect
a new College. I must ever consider it as one of
the fortunate events of my life, that the craft of
Free and Accepted Masons should be called foith
to assist at an undertaking so laudable and 8o glo-
rious, during the time that, from their affection,
I have the honour of sitting in the chair 'of the
Grand Lodge.
" THE attention to the improvement of this
city, manifested by the Magistrates your prede-
cessors in office, has, for many years, excited the
admiration of their fellow-citizens. The particu-
lar exertions of your Lordship, and your col-
leagues, have merited, and it gives me infinite sa-
tisfaction
THI HISTOltY OP
tistilction to say, haTe obtained the univeral ap-
probation of all ranks of men. The business oE
this day, equally to be remembered In the annal•
of this city and of masonry+ will transmit your
name with lustre to posterity. Thousands yet
unbom, learning to admire yovr virtues, will
thereby be stimulated to follow the great e:um-
ple you have set them, of steady patriotism, love
of your country, and anxious desire to ad-.ance
the welfare, and increase the fame, of the city of
Edinburgh. In the name of the craft of Free
and Accepted Masons, and in my own, I sincere-
ly implore the protection of the Supreme Arcbi.
teet of the Universe on your Lordship, and your
bret~ in Magistracy. May you long continue
here the ornaments of civil society,; and may you
hereafter be received into those mansions, tbollC
lodges, prepared in Heaven for the blessed."
To this address the Lord PrOToet, in name of
the Magistrates and Town Council of the city of
· Edinburgh, made a suitable reply.
~ THE Grand-Master next addressed the Princi-
pal, as representing the University of Edinburgh,
in the following words.
: •• Reverend Sir,
" P&llMIT me to congratulate you, as Principal,
and
FREE MASONRY. 249 '
and your brethren as Professors of the University
of Edinburgh, on the work in which we have this
day been engaged; a work worthy of your pa-
trons, who, ·ever considering the public good,
will not permit the seat of learning, established
in this ancient metropolis, to bear the appearance
of decay, at a time when so much attention is be-
stowed on the elegance and convenience both of
public and private edifices. Permit me likewise
to congratulate my country on the probability of
seeing the different chairs of the magnificent
structure, now to be erected, filled by men so dis-
tinguished for their piety, so eminent for their
learning, and so celebrated for their abilities, as
those to whom I now have the honour of address-
ing myself. Any ·panegyric I can pronounce,
must fall so far short of what is due to you, Sir,
and your honourable and learned brethren, that
it would be presumption in me to attempt to ex-
press my sense of your deserts. Suffice it to say,
that the Grand Lodge of Scotland, and the lodges
depending on it, are most happy in having this
opportunity of assisting at, and witnessing the
laying the fOundation, from whence, it is their
earnest wish, a building .may arise, which in fu-
ture ages may be as renowned for the excellence
of its teachers, and as much respected for the pro-
priety of conduct in its students, as the Universi-
ty now is, over which you have the peculiar sa-
tisf.1ction of presiding. May the Almighty Ar-
I i chitect,
Digitized by Google
THE HlSTOKY OF
chitect; the Sovereign Disposerof all events, grant
that the Principal and Professors of this College
may continue to deliver their instructions, and
· the students to receive their admonitions, in such
a manner as may redound to· the glory of God,
the promotion of science, and the extension of all
usefullearhing." ..
To which the Reverend Principal 'Rohertlbn
made the followii)g reply.
' ·1 F~to:\t very hun1ble beginnings, the Univer-
&ity of Edinburgh has attained to_
such eminence,
as entitles it to be ranked among the most cele-
br.ated seminaries of learning. Indebted to the
bounty of several of our Sovereigns ; distinguish- .
ed particularly by .the gracious Prince now seat-
ed on the British throne, whom, with gratitude,
we reckon among the most mu'ligcent of our
royal benefactors, and· cherished by the conti-
nued attention and gocxl offices of our Honour-
able Patrons, this University can now boast of
the number and variety of its institutions, for the
,instruction of youth in all the pranches oflitera-
ture and science. · · ·
. " WITH what integrity and discernment per-
sons have been chosen to preside in each of these
departments, the ch_aracter of my learned col-
leagues affords the most satisfyingevidence. From
confidence 'in their abilities, and assiduity in dis-
charging
Digitized by Google - ---
FR.EE· MASONRY.
charging the duties of their respective offices, the
University of Edinhurgh has become a seat of
education, not only to youth in every part of the
British dominions, but~ to the honour ofour coun-
try, students have been attracted to it from almost
every natidn in Europe, and every state in Ame-
rica. One thing still was wanting. The apart-
ments appropriated for the accommodation of
Professors and students were so extremely unsuit-
able to the flourishing state of the University, that
it has long been the general wish to have build-
ings more decent and convenient erected. What
your Lordship has now done, gives a near pros-
pect of having this wish accomplished; and we
consider it as a most auspicious circumstance, that
the foundatim~-stone ofthis newmansion ofscience
is laid by your Lordship, who, among your ances-
tors, reckon a man, whose original and universal
genius places him high among the illustrious per-
sons who have contributed most eminently to en-
}arge the boundaries of human knowledge.
" PERMIT me to add, what I regard as my own
peculiar felicity,- that by having remained in: my
present station much longer than any of my pre-
decessors, I have lived to witness an event so be-
neficial to this University, the prosperity of which
is near to my heart, and has ever l>een the object
of my warm~st wishes.
" MAY Almighty God, without the invocation
I i 2 of
'
-----------~-~-~--·-~-- . ----
111E HISTORY OF
of whom no action of importance should be be-
gun, bless thi& undertaking, and enable us to
carry it on with success. May he continue to pro-
tect our University, the object of whose insritu-
. tions is to instil into the minds of youth princi-
ples of sound knowledge, to inspire them with the
love of religion and virtue, and to prepare them
for filling the various situations in society with
honour to themselves, and with benefit to their
country. All this we ask in the name of Christ;
and unto the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spi-
rit, we ascribe the kingdom, power, and glQI'y.
Amen."
AFTER the Principal had finished his speech,
the brethren again gave three hmzas, which con-
cluded the ceremQny.
Two crystal bottles, cast on purpose at the
Glass-house of Leith, were deposited in the foun-
dation-stone. In one of these were put different
coins of the present reign, each of which being
previously enveloped in crystal in such an in-
genious manner, that the legend on the coins
could be distinctly read without breaking it. In
the other bottle was deposited seven rolls of
vellum, containing a short account of the original
foundation and present state ofthe University, to-
gether with several other papers ; in particular
the different newspapers, containing advertise-
ments relative to the College, ~c. and a list of
the
FR.EE MASONRY. 253
the Lord Provost, Magistrates, and Office-bearers
ofthe Grand Lodge ofScotland. The bottles being
carefully sealed up, were covered with a plate of
copper, wrapped in block tin; and upon the un-
der side of the copper were engraved the arms of
the city of Edinburgh, and ~f the University,
likewise the arms of the Right Honourable Lord
Napier, Grand Master-Mason of Scotland. Upon
the upper side, was a Latin inscription, of which
the following is a copy.
Annuente Deo Opt. Max.
Regnante Georgio III. Principe
Munificentissimo,
Academia: Edinburgensis
.lEdibus
Initio quidem humillimis,
Et jam, post duo secula, pene ruinosis,
Novi hujus .lEdificii
Ubi commoditati simul et elegantiz,
Tanti doctrinarum domicilii,
Dignz
Consuleretur,
Primum lapidem posuit,
Plaudente ingente omnium ordinum
Frequentia,
Vir Nobilissimus
Franciscus Dominus Napier,
Reipub. Architecto,Ucz apud Scotos,
Curio Maximus,
xvr. Kal. Decemb.
Anno salutis humanz MDCCLXXXIX•
.Era: Arcbitectonicz ll~>I:>CCLXXXIX.
Consula:
oi9,tized by Google
2.54 THE BISTOR.Y OF
Consule Thoma Elder,
Academiz Pr~fecto Gulielmo Robertson,
Architecto Roberto Adam.
Q. F. F. Q. S.
TRANSLATION.
By the blessing of Almighty God,
In the reign of the munificent Prince Geo. lll.
The buildings of the University of Edinburgh,
Being originaHy very mean,
And now, after two centuries, almost a ruin,
The Right Hon. Francis Lord ~apier,
Grand-Master of the fraternity of. Free Masons in
Scotland,
Amidst the acclamations
Of a prodigious concourse of all ranks of people,
Laid the Fo\lndation-stone of this
. New fabric;
In which 1- union of elegance with convenience,
Suitable to the dignity of such a celebrated
Seat of leanting,
Has been studied;
On the 16th day of November,
In the year of our Lord 1789,
And of the ~ra of Masonry 5789,
Thomas El~er being Lord Provost of the city ;
William Robertson Principal of the University;
and Robert Adam Architect.
May the undertaking prosper and be crowned
with success.
Tm:
•...;.... _..:. • ----.-~;9,iized by Google
!'RE~ MASONRY. 255
,TaE anthem being sung, the brethren returned,
the whole procession being reversed; and when
the junior lodge arrived at the door of the Parlia-
ment House, they fell back to.the right and left,
within the line Qf the soldiers, when the Principal,
Professors, and Students, the Lord Provost, Ma.
gistrates, and Town Council, and the Grand
Lodge, passed through with their hats off. The
Grand-Master was supported, on the right hand,
by Sir WilHam Forbes, Bart. a former Grand-
Master, and, on the left, by his Grace the Duke
of Bu<:cleugh.
LIV. GRAND ELECTION, NotJ. 30. 1789.
Francis Lord Napier, Grand-Matt".
George Earl of Morton, Grand-Mattn- El~ct.
Lord Binning, Dtputy Grand-Matt".
Thomas Hay, Esq. Substitut~ Grand-Master.
John Stewart, Esq. of Allanbank, Smior Grand-Wtmlm.
James Wolfe Murray, Junior Grand-Wardtn.
John Hay, Esq. Tr~asur".
William Mason, Esq. GranJ-Secrttary.
Reverend Dr Touch, &ond-Chaplai11.
Mr Robert Meikle, Grand-C/"Ie.
No events of importance occured during this
year.
LV
Digitized by Google
4 - -
-- -- ~· -- - -~--
THE HISTORY OF
LV. GRAND ELECTION, NfiTI. 30. 1790.
George Earl of Morton, Grantf-Marur.
George Earl of Errol, D~puty Grand-MOJI~r.
Thomas Hay, Esq. Subrtilut~ Grantf-Marl"·
William Campbell, Esq. s~nior Grand-Wardn.
Captain John Scott of Milleny, Junior Grand-WIIT4m.
John Hay, Esq. Grantf-Tr~asur".
William Mason, Esq. yrantf-Secr~tary.
Reverend Dr Touch, Grand-Chaplain.
Mr Robert Meikle, Grand-CI"l.
A NEW lodge, under the title of the Mount
Olive Lodge, was erected at St Christophers, un-
der a patent from Scotland.
LVI. GRAND ELECTION, N(Jf}. 30. 1791.
George Earl of Morton, GranJ-Masttr.
Marquis of Huntly, Grand-Marttr Eitel.
Earl of Errol, D~uty Grand-Mast".
Thomas Hay, Esq. Suhstitut~ Grand-Masttr.
William Campbell, Esq. Smior GranJ-Wardm.
William Douglas Clephan, Esq. Junior Grand-Wardnt.
John Hay, Esq. Grand-Tr~asurtr.
William Mason, Esq. Grand-S~cr~tary.
Reverend Dr Touch, Grand-Chaplain.
Mr Robert Meikle, Grat~d-Citrl.
ON the goth November, the day of the election,
the foundation-stone of the Bridewell, Calton-
Hill, was laid in the following manner.
-~- --------------------~
FREE MASONR.:Y• '257
., THE Lord Provost, Magistrates, and Council,
i~ their robes.
The , Sheriff-Deput~. attended by the Noble-
men and Gentlemen of the county.
Ttte ~and of the 53d regiment.
The Grand-Stewards.
. The Noblemen and. Gentlemen attending the
Grand-Master.
The Grand Jewels, Cornucopia, &c.
.The.vrand Lodge.
The Lo~ges according to their seniority ; the
Lodg~ pf St Mary's C~apel walking &rst. ·
THE procession began to move from the As-
sembly-Rooms a little after one o'clock~ _and
reached the site for the New Bridewell, upon the
Calton-Hill, about two. The Grand-Master then
standing on the east, _
with the Substitute on his
right hand, and the Grand-Wardens on the west,
the square, the plumb, the level, and the n1allet,
were successively delivered by an operative to the '
Substitute, and by·him again to the Grand-Master;
with the mallet he gave three knocks, saying;
" May the Grand Architect of the universe grant-
" a blessing on this foundation-stone which we
" have now laid, aod, by his providence, enable us
" to finish this, and every other work which may
" be undertaken for the advantage of this city
" and county." On this the brethren gave three
huzzas. The cornucopia and two silver vessels
were then brought from the table, and delivered,
K k the
....____.__
...-,.____• Digitized by Google
THE HISTORY OF
the cornucopia to the Substitute, and the twi
vessels to the Wardens, and were successively
presented to the Grand-Master, who, according
to an ancient ceremony, poured the corn, the
wine, and the oil, which they contained, on the
stone, saying, " May the All-bounteous Author
" of Nature bless this city and county with abun-
" dance of corn, wine, and oil, and with all tbt
" necessaries, conveniencies, and comforts oflife;
" and may the same A1mighty Power preserve
" this city and county from ruin and decay to the
" latest posterity." On this the brethren again
gave three hunas.
THE Grand-Master afterwards addressed him-
self to the Lord Provvst and Magistrates as fol-
lows.
" MY LoRD PROVOST AND MAGISTRATES,
" I J-IAv:t: the honour of meeting your .Lord-
fuip, and the Magistrat.es of Edinbnrgh, this
day, for the purpose of carrying into execution
an ;undertaking, which there is every ~n to
believe wiU be attended with great public bene-
fit. While we contemplate with plea&ure the
flourishing state of Scotland, we cannot help la-
menting, that, from the imperfection of human
affairs in this, as in every other country, the in-
crease of arts, manufactures, commerce, and po-
pulation, (however desirable in itself,) has been
attended with a degree of corruption in . the
manners of the people, to which, I am sorry to
· · add,
FRU MASoNllY. ZS9
add, -~ too general u~ of spirits, among the
lower class of both sexes, has, in this country,
greatly contributed. I trust, therefore, that every
good citi2.e11 will most cordially join with me in
giving due praise to the zeal of those honourable
and respectable Magistrates, through whose exer-
tions the sanction of the legislature has been ob-
tained fur the institution of this house of public
discipiice, which we are now preparing to erect.
May it prove, under the guidance of Magistrates,
upright and vigilant as those to whom we owe its
e.x.istence. a terror to the idle and profligate, and
a pl~ of security to the industriom and well
. disposed inhabitants of this city and county.
May those who shall once feel the severity of its
discipline leave it so amended in their behaviour,
and inured to habits of industry, as &'ler to
require a repetition of iu ~hastisements ; and
may the accomplishment of the purposes for
which it is founded be marked by the regular
diminution of .Ue muaber of its inhabitants!'
To tlris speech the Lord Provost made a very
elegant and suitable reply. After the Lord Pro-
vosthad finished his speech,thebrethren again gave
three huz.:z.as, which concluded the ceremony.
Tw.o, ·qystal-bqttles, cast on ,purpose a~ the
Glass-house a£ Leith, were deposited in tl1e foun-
dation-stone. ln ·one of these were .pl:it different
coins of the present reign ; each ·of wh1ch being
previously enveloped in crystal, in such an inge-
&.,k 2 lllOtl..'>
..
Digitized by Google
·---
THE HISTORY OF
nious manner, that the legend on the coins could
be distinctly read without breaking the crystal.
In the other botde were deposited two rolls of
vellum, containing the names of the present offi-
cers of the Grand Lodge, and the present Magis-
trates of this city ; together with an Edinburgh
almanack, and a copy of each of the newspapers
published in this city, viz. the Caledonian Mer-
cury, Edinburgh Evening Courant, Edinburgh
.Advertiser, and Edinburgh Herald. The bottles
being carefully sealed up, were covered with a
piece of copper, wrapped in block tin ; and, upon
the under side of the copper, were engraved the
Arms of the city of Edinburgh, the Arms of
the Earl of Morton, Grand Master-Mason of
Scotland, of Masonry, and of the Right Hon.
James Stirling,Lord Provost·of Edinburgh. Up.
on the upper side of the plate, a Latin inscrip~
tion, of which the following is a copy.
Regnante Georgio ill.
Ad nequitiam
Intra U rbem et Comitatum Edinburgensem,
Salutari labori coercendam accommodati
Primum hujus Ergastuli lapidem
Posuit
Vir nobilissimus Georgius Comes de Morton,
Dominus Douglas de Lochleven, &c. &c.
Sodalitii Architectonici apud Scotos Curio Maximus,
.Anno post Christum natum MDCCXCI.
4Erae autem ArchiteC\:onicae J:>:>I:>CCXCI.
:Pie irso Divi Andreae
V.rbi-.
Dig1tized by Goo~le ~.J
~---""-....-~..-..-::-~-.........,_..
•..,....,..llli.•zr•...:.--=- = n~
FREE MASONRY.
Urbis Consule .amplissimo Jacobo Stirling,
Comitatus Vicecomite Vic~o Joanni Pringle,
Architecto Roberto Adam.
THE procession then returned to the Assembly
Rooms. The Right Hon. the Earl of Balcarras
walked on.the right side ofthe Grand-Master, and
Thomas Hay, Esq. Substitute Grand-Master, on
his _left. HisrGtace the'Duke of Bticcleugh took
the right 'of Mr Sheriff Pringle, and the Lord
Advocate the left.
THE foundatio~-:stone. of'that pri~cely fabric,
the Royal Infirmary, was laid by the n'oble Earl's
grandfather. That humane institution was in-
tended as. an asylum for .the distressed,..where
the diseased in body might meet a cure. It has
been reserved for the gnmdsbn :to found :af\.:'
bric intended for the express pUrpose' ~f reclaim.;.'-
ing the vicious, and promoting th~ noble ends.of
virtue. The following in"scrip~ion is·to 'be placed
in·the front of the building. ·
For
The safety of the good,
And
The reformation of the guilty,
This building was erected,
In the magistracy
Of
The Right Honourable James Stirling,
Lord Provost of the City,
And
Digitized by Google
THE HISTORY OF
And John Pringle, Esq.
s-~~~~of~eOooo~
0£ Edinburgh,
The foundation-stone was laid
By
The Right Hon. George Earl of Morton,
Grand Master-Mason of Scotland,
On the 3oth day of November,
In the year of our Lord J 791,
And of Masonry 5791,
Dut.ING this year a provincial deputation was
gnnted for the Leeward Carribee Islands.
LVU. GRAND ~LECTION, NtJ1U. ~· 1791.
The Marqllis of Huntly, G-and...Masur.
The Earl of Ancram, D~ut1 Grantl-Mastu.
Thomas Hay, Esq. Substitutt Grand-Masttr.
William M. D. Clephan, Eaq. Smior Grand-Wartlm.
Lord Downe, Juniqr Granti-Wardm.
John Hay, Esq. Granti-Trtasurtr.
William Mason, Esq. Grantl-&crttary.
Reverend Dr Touch, Grand-Chaplain.
· Mr Robert Meikle, Grlllli-C/ni.
NOTHING of impcDrtance OCc:wTed during this
year.
LVIII.
---._.____....;______..___::
o~
;9~
;t;z~
ed byGoogle _ ____.,
-·-·- -----
FREE MASONRY.
LVUI. GQ.AND ELECTION, NOfJ. 30 1793.
The Marquis of Huntly, GranJ-MtJIIw.
The Earl of Ancram, Dtputy Grartd-Mattw.
Thomas Hay, Esq. 8ubstitutt GrarttJ..Mastn-.
CoL Maclean Douglas Clephan, Bmiiw Grtlfld·W'tWdtrr.
Lord Downe, J•nin- Grlll'lll·'IYtWdtn.
John Hay, Esq. GranJ-Trtllltlrtr.
William Mason, Esq. Grand-&c.-dary.
Reverend Dr Touch, Grand-Chaplain.
Mr Robert Meikle, Granti-Ciwl.
THE members of the Journeymen Lodge, ha-
ving inconsiderately let their lodge room to a
number of men calling themselves the Friends of
the People, an extraordinary committee of the
Grand Lodge was called to consult upon the busi-
ness, when it was agreed, that their conduct wa!
highly reprehensible,and it was unanimouslyresol-
ved to suspend from their office five members,who
who were concerned in that improper affair. This
circumstance is men~ioned to show the loyalty '
of the Grand Lodge, and their eagerness to dis-
courage every society that was unfriendly to the
existing government.
ux.
-··-- Digitized by Google
THE HISTORY OF
LIX. GRAND ELECTION, !He. 1. 1794·
The Earl of Ancram, Grand-Masttr.
Lord Down~ Deputy Gran,d-Masier.
Thomas Hay, Esq. Substitute. Grand~il{ast,.
Sir James Foulis, Ban. Se..Ur Grand-Warden.
A. Houston, Esq. ofJordanhill, Junior.Grand-lYIITdnt.
John Hay, Esq. Grand-J;reasurer•.
William Mason, Esq. Grand-Secrda?·
Reverend Dr ToucJt, Grand-Chaplain. . .
Mr Roben Meikle, Gra~uJ-Citrl..
No.interesting occurrence marked the proceed-
ings ofthis year. ..
LX. GRAND ELECTION, Nw. 30. 1795-
The Earl of Ancra.tn, Grand-Master.
Lord Downe, Dtputy Grand-Maste~.
Thomas Hay, Esq. Subrtitute Grand-Marter.
Sir James Foulis, Bart. Smior Gra11d-Warden.
Andrew Houston, Esq. Junior Grand-Warden.
John Hay, Esq. Grand-Trearurtr.
Roben Meikle, Esq. Grand-&crda?·
.Reverend Dr Touch, Grand-Chaplain.
Mr Thomas Sommers, Grand-Cier1.
THE Grand-Master having taken the chair,
thanked the brethren for this second mark of
attention, in calling him to the chair of the
Grand Lodge of Scotland, an honour which he
would ever recollect with gratitude. He regret-
ted
Digitized by Google ·
.FREE MASONRY.
ted, that from his necessa.ry avocations, which
led him occasionally at a distance from this city,
he had it not in his power to pay that attention
to the lodges, · which inclination, as well ·as a
sense ·of duty, would induce ,him to give. He
would, .however, embrace the earliest opportu-
nities in his power of paying his respects to them.
He then observed, that although, from the prin-
ciples of the craft, it was at all times unbecom-
ing o~ them as a body to interfere with politics,
yet he considered loyalty to the King, and sub-
mission to the laws, to be duties incumbent on
all. He hoped, therefore, that from the late de-
liverance of his Majesty, when personally at-
tacked in going to Parliament, the first day of the
present session, it would be proper for the bre-
thren, when now assembled upon the anniver-
sary of St Andrew,.to express their happiness at
that deliverance. He would, therefore, propose
an Address, which he had then. in his hand, and
which, he flattered himself, would meet with
their approbation." The Address having been
read by the Most Worshipful, and approved of
by the brethren, it was transmitted to the Duke
of Portland; Secretary of State for the home de-
partment: and by him presented to his Majesty.
Of this Address the following is a copy.
L 1
.,
"UNTo
Digitized by Google
___..__ ___. -_._.___
THE HISTORY O'F
"UNTo THE KrNo~s MosT ExcELLENT MAJESTY,
" The Humble Address of the Right Honourable
and Most Worshipful, William Earl of An-
cram, Grand Master-Mason of Scotland; ·Fran~
cis Lord Viscount Downe, Depute Grand-Mas-
ter; Thomas Hay, Esq. Substitute Grand~
Master; Sir James Foulis, Bart. Senior Grand-
Warden; Andrew Houston, Esq. Junior Grand-
Warden; John Hay, Esq. Grand-Treasurer;
with the Brethren in Grand Lodge asS"embled
on the Anniversary of St Andrew.
" MosT GRACIOUS SovEREIGN,
" WE, your Majesty's most dutiful subjects,
the Grand Lodge of Scotland, humbly requett
permission to approach your Ma~sty; with the
most sincere expressions of that attachment and
loyalty, for which our ancient and respectable
order has- ever been distinguished.
"YouRMajesty'slatedeltverance from thebands
of wicked and sanguinary men, while it rec~tls
to us the recollection of your Majesty's virtues,
.impresses us with gratitude to that providential
care, which, by watching over your Majesty~s
life, has averted the most alarming calamities
from your people.
" WE
Digitized by Google
~.........:==o..... - • """- ~-...-.a-
a a
FREE MASONRY•.
" WE have, on this occasion, witnessed the in.
terposition of Heaven for the safety of your royal
person. That it may never cease to extend its
guardian protection to your Majesty, and to your
illustrious h!?.use, is our 1.JUlted prayer.
" SIGNED qy l.lpPQiP.t:nlen~, ~nd !n Qur pre5ence,
when in Grand.Lodge assembled, this thir.
tieth day of November, qne thousand seven
hundred and ninety-five.
(Signed)
" ANcRAM, Grand-Master!'
LXI. GRAND ELECTION, Nw. 30. •7¢•
Lord Viscount Downe, GranJ.Master.
The Earl of Crawford, Dtputy GranJ.Masttr.
Thomas Hay, Esq. Sulutitutt Grand-Master.
John Clerk, Esq. Smior Grand-Wardm.
Robert Moir, Esq. Juniw Grand-Wardtn.
John Hay, Esq. Grand-Trtasurtr.
Robert Meikle, Esq. Grand-S«rdar,.
Reverend Dr Touch, Grand-Chaplain.
Mr Thomas Sommers, Grand-Citrl.
IN the course of this year a correspondence was
opened with the Grand Lodge of Ireland.
Ll1. LXH.
. --... _..
!i",
.,._.. ---.L o;w
_v ·"p~ggle
_
_____.;.,_ __.......~......
:168 THE HISTORY OF-
LXIL GRAND ELECTION, NOfJ. 30. 179i·
Lord Viscount Downe, Grand-MaJtw• .
The Earl of Crawford, Dtputy Grand-MaJtw.
Thomas Hay, Esq. Sulutitutt Grand-MIJitw
John Clerk, Esq. Stniw Grand-Wankn.
Robert Moir, Esq. Juniw Grand-Wardm.
John Hay, Esq. Grand-Trtasurw.
William Guthrie, Esq. Grand-Stcrdary.
Rev. Dr Touch, Grand-Chaplain.
Mr Thomas Sommers, Grand-Ckrl:.
·--
AN Address to his Majesty, upon the late signal
victory over the Dutch fleet by Lord Duncan,
was moved by the Substitute Grand-Master, and
unanimously agreed to. In consequence of this
motion, the following Address was drawn up, and
transmitted to the Duke of Portland:
" UNTO THE KING's MosT ExcELLENT MAJESTY._
" The humble Address of, the Grand Lodge, and
Masons of Scotland.
" MAY IT PLEASE YOUR MAJESTY,
'' WE, your Majesty's most dutiful and loyal
subjects, the Grand-Master and other officers of
the Grand Lodge of Scotland, with the ·Masters,
Officers, and Proxies of Lodges, and Brethren in
Grand Lodge assembled, though generally unac-
, customed
==
FREE MASONRY.
customed to approach your royal person, except
upon events connected with the domestic felicity
of your illustrious house, yet we trust we will be
pardoned by your Majesty for thus expressing our
congratulations on the late naval victory, glorious
almost beyond all former example. Actuated aswe
are,by an honest pride in the reflection that thesig-
nal succe~s on this occasion was obtained through
divine aid, under the auspices of one to whom our
native country had the d·edit of giving birth,
we are ready, in common with your Majesty's
other loyal subjects, to stand or fall in the support
of our liberties, our laws, and our religion; and
conclude with breathing a hope in the true spirit
of masonry, that peace may soon be restored to
these realms on a solid and permanent basis,
honou:able to your Majesty, and to the nation.
" StoNED in name, and by appointment, and in
presence of the Brethren, within the Grand
Lodge, this 3oth Day of. November 1797,
being the Anniversary of the Festival of St.
Andrew."
Lxni:
Digitized by (;oogle
•
\
270 Ti{E mSTORY OP
LXIII. GRAND ELECTION, NofJ. 30, 1798.
Sir James Stirling, Bart. Lord P,rov. ofEdin. GraNI-H...rtt!r.
G. Ramsay, Esq. younger of Barnton, Deputy Gr11Ni-M~~.rur•
John Clerk, Esq. Substilul~ GraNI-Mast".
J. Trotter, Esq. of Morton-Hall, Snrior GratuJ..KTartktt.
A.Gibson Maitland,Esq.ofClifton-Hall,Ju~tiorGrii.J-W.,.*a.
John Hay, Esq. GranJ-Tr~11sunr.
William Guthrie, Esq. GranJ-S~cr~tary.
R.ev. Dr Touch, GranJ.Chaplain.
Mr James Bertmm, GranJ-Cin-l.
IN consequence of the celebrated victory over
the French fleet by Admiral Nelson, an address
was presented to his Majesty by the Grand Lodge
of Scotland.
AT a meeting of the Grand Lodge, on the sth
of August I 799, it was stated from the chair,
that by an act passed in the last session of Parlia-
ment, cap. 79, entitled, " An Act for the more
" effectual suppression of societies established for
" seditious and treasonable purposes," &c. it was,
inter alia, declarecl illegal for any body of men to
require an oath, test, or declaration from their
members, not authorised by law; but that an ex-
press exception was contained therein, in favour
of Free Masons, under certain provisions, of the
following tenor.
" ANo
FltEE.NASONR.Y. 271
" ANn whereas certain societies have been long
" accustomed to be holden in this kingdom,under
" the denomination of Lodges of Free Masons,
" the ·meetings whereof have been, in a great
" measure, directed to charitable purposes, be it
~' therefore enacted, That nothing in this act
" shall extend to the meetings of any such socie-
" ty or lodge, which shall, before the passing of
" this act, have been usually holden under the
" said denomination, and in conformity to the
" rules prevailing among the said societies of
" Free Masons.
" PRoVIDED always, that this exemption shall
" not.extend to any such society' unless two of
" the members composing the same shall certify ·
" upon oath (which oath any justice of the peace
" or other magistrate is hereby empowered to ad-
" minister), that such society or lodge has, before
" the passing of this act, been usually held under
" the denomination of aLodge of Free Masons,
" and in conformity to the rules prevailing among
" the societies or lodges of Free Masons in thi~
" kingdom : which certificate, duly attested by
" the magistrate before whom the same shall be
" sworn, and subscribed by the person so certify-
" ing, shall, within two calendar months after the
" passing of this act, be deposited with the clerk
" of the peace for the county, stewartry, riding,
" ·division, shire,·or place, where such society or·
" lodge hath been usually held : Provided also,
" That
= iz-4" - -
~a;,.-
Digitized by Google
THE HISTORY OF
'.' That this exemption shall not extend to any
" such society or lodge, unless the name or deno-
" mination thereof, and the usual place or places,
" and the time or times of its meetings, and the
" names or descriptions of all and every the mem-
" bers thereof, be registered with such clerks of
'·' the peace, as aforesaid, within two 11Wnlhs after
" the passing of this act ; and also on or bef~re
" the 25th day of March in every succeeding
" year.
" AND be it enacted, That the clerk of the
" peace, or the person acting in his behalf, in any
" such county, stewartry, riding, division, shire,
" or place, is hereby authorised and required to
" receive such certificate, and make such registry
" as aforesaid, and to enrol the same among the
" records of such county, stewartry, riding, divi-
" sion, shire, or place, and to lay the same, once
" in every year, before the general session of the
" justices for such county, stewartry, riding, divi-
" sion, shire, or place; and that it shall and may
" be lawful for the said justices, or for the major
" part of them, at any of their general sessions,
" if they shall so think fit, upon complaint made ·
" to them upon oath, by any one or more credi-
" ble persons, that the continuance of the meet-
~· ings of any such lodge or society is likely to be
" injurious to the public peace and good order,
" to direct that the meetings of any such society
" or lodge, within such county, stewartry, riding,
" division,
, FREE MASONRY•
·" division, shire, or place, shall from thenceforth
•• be discontinued; and any such meetings held,
" notwithstanding such order of discontinuance,
•• and before the same shall by the like authority
.. be revoked, shall be deemed an unlawful com-
.. hination and confederacy, under the provisions
" of this act." •
WHICH enactments the Grand Lodge having
· taken into their most serious _
consideration, they
unanimously agreed, that it was their province,
as the head of the masonic body in Scotland,
from whom all regular lodges hold by charter,
their right of meeting, to take effectual steps for
enforcing observance of the law before recited-
a law, which, as bearing honourable testimony to
the purity of their order, and thus silencing the
daring breath of calumny, must be truly flatter-
ing to the brethren at large. ·
THEY do, therefore, in the first place, most stre-
nuously recommend the instant attention of the
whole lodges of Scotland to the foregoing legis-
lative regulations; by which it will be observed,
that two essential requisites are necessary for en-
titling the Free Masons of Scotland to hold in
future their usual meetings.
ut, That two of the members of ~ach lodge
shall certify upon oath, before any justice of th~
peace, or other magistrate, that " The lodge has,
M m " before
Digitized by Google
THE HISTORY OF
" before the pauing ofthe said act, been u-IUillly
" beld under the denomination of a lodge of Fre~
" Masons, and in conformity to the rules pre'Vailing
" among the lodges of Fru Masons in this king-
" dom ;" and ·which affidavit, certified by the
magistrate before whom it is taken, must be re-
gistered. with the sheriff-clerk of the county
where the particular lodge holds her meetings,
within two calendar months from the 12th of
July last : And,
. 2dly, That one of the presiding officers of the
lodge do record with the sheriff-clerk, within the
same space, 1st, The name by which the lodge is
distinguished; 2d, The place and days of meeting;
and 3d, The names and descriptions (designations)
of the attending members.
AND the Grand Lodge, responsible for the regu-
lar conduct of the masons of Scotland, holding of
them, which they are firmly persuaded is almost
without exception entirely consonant to the prin-
ciples of the craft ; yet, anxious to guard against
every intrusion on th«!ir ancient and respectable
order, or upon her established and accustomed
forms, do unanimously resolve,
Imo, That every lodge holding of the Grand
Lodge of Scotland, shall, within six 1ll()nths from
this date, apply for a certificate from the Grand
Lodge ; which certificate shall bear an express
renewal
~ ~ "Y-- . pw .__ .
-
-
FREE MASONRY.
renewal of power to hold masonic meetings, under
her sanction and authority; and which shall not
be granted without production of evidence to the
Most Worshipful the Grand-Master, his Deputy,
o~ Substitute, that the act of Parliament above
recited has been literally complied with. And
every lodge which shall not, within the said SRace,
demand and obtain such certificate, shall be ex-
-punged from the grand roll, have consequently
no right thereafter, by her presiding officers, .or by
proxy, to sit or vote at their meetings, and be de-
prived of all future protection of the Grand
Lodge.
2do, That the said certificate shall be subscrib,..
ed by the Grand-Master, his Deputy, or Substi
tute, and by the Secretary and tlerk for the time,
and have the seal of the Grand Lodge appended
thereto; for which a fee of five shillings, and no
more, at the disposal of the Grand Lodge, shall be
exacted.
3tio, That the said certificate shall be there.
after applied for, on or before the 25th day of
April I8oi, and of every succeeding year, 'and
evidence prod1:1ced, as before mentioned, so long
as the said act is in force, under the same certifi-
cation of being so expUllged from the roll in cas~
of failure.
'\
ffto, That no such certificate shall be granted,
M Ill 2 until
-·...., . .. .·- -·-- ~;g,tized by Google
.- -.......
THE HISTORY OF
until all the arrears due to the Grand Lodge be
discharged.
sto, That. the names of all the lodges who have
so obtained certificates shall be annually tran~
mitted to one ofhis Majestfs Principal Secretaries
of ~tate, and to the Lord Advocate of Scotland,
6to, That the foregoing resolutions be printed,
and copies t!ransmitted to all lodges· throughout
Scotland holding of the Grand Lodge, that none
may pretend ignorance thereof,
711Zo, That copies thereof be also transmitted to
his Grace the Duke of Athol, and the Right Hon.
Henry Dundas, by the Most Worshipful Grand...
Master, and ~e be requested to take that opportu.,.
nity of expressing the ·grateful sense the masom
of Scotland entertain of their exertions in behalf
of the cr~t.
8vo, That a committee be appointed to wait on
the Lord Advocate, with a copy of the said reso-
lutions, and instructed to assure his lordship,
that they have a grateful feeling of his lord-
ship's kindness to the masons ofScotland, and w_ill
be ready to listen to any other regulations that
to him may appear proper to be adopted.--
. The following committee were accordingly named
for that. purpose :-The Right H;on. and Most
Worshipful the Grand-Master, his Substitute, 'Pl4
Brother Cam~bell of Fairfield.
FREE MASONRY.
9fZO, That a copy of these resolutions be also
transmitted to the Secretary of the Grand Lodge
of Ancient Free Masons in England.
AND, lastly, That the thanks of the Grand
Lodge are justly due to the Right Honourable
~d Most Worshipful Sir James Stirling, Bart.
their present Grand-Master, for his constant atten-
tion to their interests, since his unanimous elec-
tion to the chair; and more particularly in his
correspondence with Mr Secretary Dundas, during
~he dependence of the late bill in Parliament.
LXIV. GRAND ELECTIGN, Nov. 30, 1 799·
Sir James Stirling, Bart. Grand-Master.
· Charles William Earl of Dalkeith, Grand-Masttr Eled~
G.Ramsay,Esq.youngerofBamton,DtputyGrand-Mosttr.
John Clark, !';sq. SuiJJtitute GratJd-MaJter. ·
John Trotter, Esq. of Morton-Hall, Senior Grand-Wardm.
A.C.GibsonMaitland,Esq.ofClifton-Hall,Jun.G.Wardm.
John Hay, Esq. Grand-Trea1urer.
Rev. Dr Touch, Grand-Chaplain.
William Guthrie, Esq. Grand-Secretary.
Mr James Bartram, Grand-Cierl.
S!tVERAL charters having been applied for, in
the course of this year, a doubt was entertained
by several members of the Grand Lodge, whether
or not they were entitled to grant new charters
since
Digitized by Google
,_
THE HISTORY OF
since the passing of the act concerning the sup-
pression of secret societies. It was agreed to take
the advice of counsel, who were of opinion, that
no lodge, erected since the 12th of July, was en-
titled to the benefit of the statute. ·
IN consequence of the escape of our Sovereign
from a base attempt upon his life, the Grand
Lodge of Scotland, ever attentive to the duties
of loyal subjects, prepared the following Ad-:
dress, and presented it to his Majesty.
" MAY IT PLEASE YOUR MAJESTY,
" WE, your Majesty>s mo,St dutiful and loyal
subjects, the Grand-Master and other officers of
tbe Grand Lodge of Scotland, with the Masters
and Proxies of Lodges, and their Wardens, in
Grand· Lodge assembled, approach your Majes-
.ty's throne, with reflections of horror, .in com-
mon with all your other affectiona~e subjects, on
the possible event of a recent attempt upon the
sacred person ofyour Majesty, of which, but for
the proof of that atrocity, we should, for the ho-
,no~r of humanity, have doubted the reality.
" THE miserable person who made this wicked
·attack on a life so justlyprecious to the whole com-
munity, must, according to our feelings, have
either been visited by the Supreme Being with
the
ttd
FREE MASONRY. 2 79
the greatest affiiction to which our nature is
liable, or be of a description of men, (if such are
entitled to the appellation), of which we are
fully convinced there exists not another solitary
individual throughout the extended dominions of
your Majesty.
. " THE magnanimity displayed by your Ma-
jesty, on so trying an occasion, will ever, on re-
collection, fill the eyes of your faithful subjects
with tears of gratitude, as establishing your en-
tire confidence on your affectionate people, and
as having had an effect pleasing, we are well
aware, to your Majesty, of preYenting many and
serious mischiefs, among the great concourse of
your subjects then assembled, whose fears were
alive for the safety·of their beloved Sovereign.
" WE take this opportunity of assuring your
Majesty of the purity and simplicity of our an-
cient order, and of our sincere attachment to the
glorious constitution of our country, founded' on
a basis, which, from its stability, cannot be shaken
by foes foreign or domestic ; and conclude with
our most anxious wishes for the long continuance
and prosperity of yo_ur Majesty's reign, and for
the permanent, unimpaired, and undisturbed fe_.
licity of your Majesty, and of every branch of
your illustrious house.
" SIONED
Digitized by Google
r - - - - - - -
280 .THE HISTORY OF
" SIGNED in name of, by appointment, and i.a.
presence of the Grand Lodge of Free Ma-
sons of Scotland, this 9th day of June
x8oo.
(Signed)
" JAMES STIRLING,
" G. M. Muon of Scotland.n
LXV. GRAND ELECTION, Dtc. r. 18oo.
Charles William Earl of Dalkeith, Grand-Master.
Robert Dundas, Esq. of Melville, Dtputy Grand-Master.
John Clark, Esq. Suhrtitute Grand-Marter.
' John Trotter, Esq. of Morton-Hall, Sen. Grand-Wartkn.
Sir Charles Douglas, Bart. Junior Grand-Wardm.
John Hay, Esq. Grand-Treasurer.
Rev. Dr Touch, Grand-Chaplain.
William Guthrie, Esq. Grand-Secretary.
Mr James Bartram, Grand-Cier1.
IT was agreed upon, in the course of this year,
to divide Scotland into different districts, and to
appoint provincial Grand-Masters over •each of
these. · After proper regulations and instructions
were drawn up for these office-bearers, several
gentlemen were appointed provincial Grand-
masters.---See Appendix-, No.4·
A
Digitized by Google
FR.EE MASONRY~
A cHARTER was this year granted to· die officers
of the 51st regiment, stationed at Columba, in
the Island of Ceyldn, to hold a lodge under the
denomination of the Orange Lodge.
THE Grand Lodge received a message fro11t the
Magistrates of Edinburgh, informing them that
the foundation-stone of the Wet-Do<::ks at Leith
was to be laid- on the 14th May I80I, 4lnd re-
questing ~heir company and assistance on the
occasion:
WHEN the appointed day arrived, the·brethren,
amounting to about 1200, set out from the Leith
Assembly Rooms, a little before nine o'clock in
the morning, and advanced in the following
order.
THE Lord Provost, Magistrates, and Council
of the City of Edinburgh, with the Magistrates
of Leith, in their robes, preceded by .the in-
signia of their office, 1\nd a band of music.
The Engineers and Architects of the proposed
building.
· The Grand-Tyler, in his proper clothing, car-
rying a drawn sword.
The Grand-Stewards, with their rods.
The . Golden Compass, Square, and Plumb,
carried by operative masons.
Nn The
•
Digitized by Google
------
TH! HISTORT OF
The Golden Mallet, carried by an operative
brother.
The.cornucopia, filled with com, and two sil-
ver cups or goblets, . the one filled with wine,
the other with oil, carried by operative bre-
thren.
The inscriptions and medals to be deposited in
the stoae, tarried by Ol>'rative brethren.
Th~ .Crand-St:cretary and (}rand-Clerk.
The G.rand-Treasurer and Grand-Chaplain.
The Senior and Junior Grand-Wardens.
The Holy Bible open upon a cushion, carried
· by Brother Peacock.
The Grand-Master, supported by Sir James
·Stirling, Bart. last Grand~Master, and Sir Patrick
Murray;· Bart. Deputy Grand-Master P. T.
Lord Downe, accompanied by the Substitute
Grand-Master, and the Provincial Grand-Master
for PeeblesF Selkirk, -&c; · .
The Master of Prox,ies~ supported by his De..
pute and Substitute, and accompanied by all the
Proxy-Masters and Wardens, according to their
eeniority.
The Masters of Edinburgh Lodges, accompa-
nied by their Officers and.Brethren, acc.ording to
their seniority ; with Bands of Mosie attached to
several of these Lodges.
The Masters, Wardens; and B~threil, of the
Trinity-House, Leith, accompanied by a great
number
•
-- --
Digitized by Google .J
- ~~ ....
---.-
..~=-·-""'"""=--""-
· ..-..--- ,__--,_·- -----·----'..--44=.,..••--;;;;~;;;;;-iiiiiiii•lliiiiii;iiiOilii_..O_a,_.._;
__
.....
FREE MASONRY.
Dumber of the most respectable Merchants and
Inhabitants of Leith.
WHEN the procession arrived at the spot, the
Lord Provost and Magistrates went to a theatre
erected for them on the'.west side of the founda-
tion-stone. The Gra~d-Master, with his officers,
went to one on the east, where a table was placed,
upon which were laid the Jewels, and other em-
blems of the ciaft. The SuBstitute Grand-Mas-
ter then ·ordered the stone to be slung, and let
down gradually, making three regular stops be-
fore it came to the ground ; and, while this was
going on; the bands vtayed the anthem.
THESubstituteGrand-Masterthenplaced l\large
phial in the stone, which c:ontained all the present
current coins in this country, with a number of
beautiful .medals, of the first characters of the
present age, which were pre-viously inclosed in
·crystal. Abovethe phial were deposited t\\1o plates,
on one of wij.ich the following Inscription was
engraved.
N n 2 In
..
• Digitized by Google
THE HISTORY OJ!
In the reign of the most gracious Sovereign
George IIJ.
And
U nd~r the auspices of the Right Hoqourahle
William Fettes,
·Lord frovost of Edinburgh,
The harbour of Leith,
Though
Formed at a remote period,
And,
A. commerce, in the course of ages, increased,
Oftell repaired and e¥tellf.ied ;
Yet being still '
Narrow and incommodious,
Robert Dundas of Melville, Esquire,
fn absence of the Right Hon. William Charles Earl of
. Dalkeith,
Grand Master-Mason of Scotland,
Laid the foundation-stone
Of these Docks ;
ln which the numerous ves~ls, arriving
FrQm every quarter of the globe,
Night ~eiTe ample and secure accommodation i
On the 14th day ~f May,
In the year of our Lord 1Sot,
And of the zra of masonry 58ot,
John ~ennie being engineer.
Jrfay the undertaking prosper
By the blessing of
Mmighty God!
•
Digitized by Gooele ·
-~- - . d
-----......---,_ - - ..---;-; -- ~ - --
tREE MASONK.Y. zSs
AND ON THE OTHER,
The names of the present Town-Council of Edinburgh,
The Right Hon. Henry Dundas, member·
For the city ;
The Magistrates of Leith ;
The Wet-Dock Committee ;
The Engineers ;
The Contractors for the Works,
The .Grand Lodge of Scotland ;
The l'ylasters and W ardcns of the Trinity-
House, Leith.
THE Grand-Master, preceded by the Officers
pf the Grand l,odge, the Jewels, St.c. borne before
~hem, was conducted by Sir James Stirling, late
.Grand-Master, with the Depute and Substitute
Grand-Master, to the site of the stone. The De-
pute and Substitute retiring, the Grand-Master,
with the assistance of two operative brethren,
t~med the stone,. and .laid it in its bed. The
stone being laid, the Grand.Master,with the Sub-
stitute on his right hand, placed themselves on
the east of the stone, the Grand-Wardens stand-
ing on the west. The square, the plumb, the ·
level, and the mallet, being successively delivered
to tbe Substitute, and by him to the Grand-
Master, he applied the square to that part of
the stone which was square, the plumb to the
several edges of the stone, and the level above
the stone in several positions. And, lastly, he
gave the stone three knocks with the mallet,
saying
Digitized by Google
--- .
TllK JUSTOilY 0'1
saying~ " May the Great Architect of the Uni-
verse enable us successfully tq carry on and finish
the work of which we have now laid the foun-
dation~stone, and every other undertaking that
may tend to the advantage of the city of Edin-
burgh, and its harbours. May he be a guard and
protection to them ; and may they long be pre-
served from peril and decay." On which the
brethren gave three cheers, and the band played
the anthem. After this, the cornucopia, toge-
ther with the wine and oil, were delivered by the
Grand-Wardens to the Substitute Grand-Master,
who hande~ the same to the Grand-Master ;
when he, according to an ancient custom upon
such occasions, poured out the com, the wine,
and the oil successively upon the stone, saying,
" May the bountiful hand of Heaven ever sup-
ply this country with abundance of com, wine,
:!nd oil, and all 'the necessaries and comforts of
life." The brethren having again given three
cheers, the Grand-Master addressed the Lord Pro-
vost and Magistrates to the following effect.
· • Mt Lord Provost and Magistrates,
" IT is with the highest satisfaction that 1 have
now availed myself of the opportunity, which the
situation I have the honour to hold in the Grand
Lodge of Scotland has afforded me, of assisting at
the commencement of a work so essential to the
welfare of this metropolis, and which I trust will
contribute,
FlUE MASONllY.
contribute, in an eminent degree, to the exten-
sion .of the commerce, and the general prosperity
of this portion of the united kingdom.
'' THE respect and esteem which you enjoy in
the community over which you have the honour
to preside, ·are the surest pledges, that nothing
will be wanting on your part to second the etli>rts
and fulfil the wishes of those public-spirited in-
dividuals who have promoted this undertaking,
and that the just expectations of the Legislature,
to whose liberality you are also indebted, will not
be disappointeci
" IT is impossible to contemplate the auspici-
ous period at which this work is begun, wjthout
the strongest sensatioos of gratitude to that Pro-
vidence which has inspired his Majesty's councils
with temperate·firmness, and his fleets with irre-
sistible valour, to assert and maintain the just
rights of his subjects, on that element which has
ever been the scene of their triumphs, and the
source of their envied prosperity and power. May
the same bountiful Providence, in the blessings
of an honourable and lasting peace, secure to the
merchants of this, and of every other port in the
British dominions, the free and uninterrupted en-
joyment of their trade, and the well-earned fruits
of industry and enterprizing activity.
" IN
Dig1tized by Gopgle
288 THE HISTORY OF
" IN the name of the craft of Free and Accept-
ed Masons, I have to offer our humble supplica-
tions to the Supreme Architect of the Universe,
that he will afford his protection to your Lord-
ship, and your brethren in the Magistracy, and
that you may continue to be the instruments,
·through Him, of promoting the happiness and
welfare of the community intrusted to your
·charge."
To which the Lord Provost· made the follow-
ing reply.
" Most Worshipful Sir, ·
" LEITH has long had reason to be proud of the
enterprize and success of its merchants and
sailors. The rapid increase of its commerce bas
made it necessary to extend the barbour, and im-
prove the conveniencies for its trade. The plan
of that able engineer Mr Rennie has been adopt-
ed ; and I think it one of the happiest events of
my life, that I have the honour to fill the chair of
the city when the foundation-stone is laid of these
extensive wet-docks, which, I conceive, will not
only be of great benefit to the city and its port,
but to the country at large, as well as convenient
for the admission of large ships of his Majesty's
navy.
" I ASSURE you, Sir, that it is highly gratifying
to
Digitized by Google .J'fiiiU
~ - .____ ·- ------
- - - -- - -- ~ - -· ---
FRII MASONR.Y.
to me, and to my fellow.citizens, that the first
stone of this i{llportant work has been laid by
you. Allow· me to remark, that there appears. a
fortunate propriety in this ceremony being per..
formed by the son ofa man, to whom our city, the
navy·of Britain, and the whole Empire, are un-
der so many obligations.
" PERMIT me, in the name of the Magistrates
and Council of the city of Edinburgh, to return
our warmest thanks to you, to your brethren, and
the gentlemen who have honoured us with their
attendance upon this occasion. And may that
Almighty Being, whom winds and seas obey, ac.,.
company this undertaking with his bl~ssing, and
crown the work wi~h success,"
THE ceremony being concluded, the brethren
gave three cheers, which was followed with a sa-
lute of twenty-one guns from the vesSels in the
Roads, under the co~nd of Captain Clements
of the Royal Navy,
TH.E procession th.en returned, in the same order
as before, to tQe Assembly Rooms at Leith ; where
the Substitute Grand-Master, in name of the bre-
thren,.returned their united thanks for .the very
proper and handsome manner in whichthe Deputy
Grand-Master bad conducted himself upon this
pc~asion; to which a suitable return having been
0 o made,
..
_..........__.___ -: -
...-~,...
··----
...--~...-~·---...41·••-•.....,"'"G....-"•~ -E:Ig'''· ...r. wg
~Ie
""''seQ - ...._
, -
TH£ HISTOJlY QF
made,the SubstituteGrand-Master addressed him-
self to the operative brethren to the following ef..·
feet : " The foundation.stone of the wet-docks at
Leith, planned in much wisdom by the ingenious
architect, being now laid, and these implements
in your hands having been applied to it by the
Grand-Master and approven of, they are recom-
mitted to you with full confidence, that, as skilful
and faithful workmen, you will use them in such
a manner, that the building may rise in order,
harmony, and beauty; and, being perfected in
strength, will answer every purpose for which it
is intended, to your credit as craftsmen, and to
the honour of our ancient fraternity." After this
the Deputy Grand..Master closed the lodge indue
form.
THE procession was attended.by a party of the
4th or Dumf~es-shire militia ; who, by their
steady conduct, prevented an uncommon crowd of
spectators from impeding or interrupting its pro-
gress. There probably never was such a numerous
procession, so happily conducted and carried on,
and that too without the smallest accident having
happened. The morning being fine, the ships in
the Roads and Harbour having their flags flying
and colours displayed, rendered the spectacle
more grand and pleasing.
IN the course of this year Alexander Cunning-
-Pam
FREE MASONRY.
ham was appointed J-eweller, and Alexander
Lawrie, Bookseller and Stationer to the Grand
Lodge of Scotland.
LXVI. GRAND ELECTION, NO'IJ. 30, 18o1.
Charles William Earl of Dalkeith, Grand-Marl~r.
George Earl of Aboyne, Grand-Mast~r Elttt.
John Clark, Esq. Sulutitute Grand-Master.
J. Trotter, X.q. of Morton-Hall, Smwr Grand-Warden~
. Sir Charles Douglas, Bart. Jut~iqr Grand-Wardm.
John Hay, Esq. Grand-Treast~rer.
William Guthrie, Esq. Grand-Secretary.
Rev. Dr Touch, Grand-Chaplain.
Mr James Bartram, Grand-Clerk.
No events of importance distinguished the
proceedings of this year.
LXVII. GRAND ELECTION, Nov. 30. 18ol.
..
George Earl of Aboyne, Grand-Master. ,
George Earl of Dalhousie, Deputy Grand-MaJter.
John Clark, Esq. Substitute Grand-Master.
Sir George Mackenzie of Coul, Bart. Sen. Grand-Warden
Jamet Farquhar Gordon, Esq. JunWI' Grand-Wardm.
John Hay, Esq. GranJ-TreaJurer.
William Guthrie; Esq. GranJ,..Secretary.
Reverend Dr Touch, Grand-Chaplain.
Mr Jamea Bartram, Grand-Ckrlt.
Oo2 TnE
o;9,tiz"M by Go . le
--~-
'fH.E HISTORY OF
THE day ofthe GrandElection was distinguish-
ed by a splendid.. procession of above 1200 bre-
thren, from the Parliament House to the King's
Arms Tavern. In the course of this year a letter
was received from Lewis Clavel ofRouen,Provin-
cial Grand-Master of all the Scotish lodges in
France, requesting a charter for a lodge at Mar-
seilles, and inclosing a copy of a paper, said to
be written by the Grand Lodge of Scotland,
granting to the lodge des E/i'lJes de Minerve at ·
Paris, the liberty of granting charters. This,how-
ever, appeared to be a forgery, as no such power
had been granted by the Grand Lodge. Such is
the estimation in which Scotish masonry is held
on tlie continent.
IN the course of this year a provincial deputa-
tion was granted for the. Bermudas in the West
Indies.
A CIRCULAR letter was this year received from
the Grand Lodge of America. The spirit of il-
lumination which it breathed, and the supernu-
merary degree~ amounting to about so, which it
authorised, were sufficient reasons for drawing
down the contempt of Scotish masons, whose ho-
nour it is to have preserved Free Masonry, for
many centuries, in its original and simple form;
and whose prideitsballeverbe to transmit, to th~
latest posterity, the principles and ceremonies of
their order unpolluted and unimpaired.
LXVDI..
- ···- ~
---~------- ~- - - --- --~
FR.U MASONRY.
LXVIII GRAND ELECTION, NflfJ. 30. 18o3.
George Earl of Aboyne, Grantl-Mastw.
George Earl of Dalhousie, Grand-MtUtw Eltd.
John Clark, Esq. S,Ustitutt Grand-Mastw.
Sir G. S. Mackenzi~, Bart. Smior Grantl-1Ytmkn.
James Farquhar Gordon, Esq. Junior Grantl-Wardm. ·
John Hay, Esq. Grand-Trttuurw.
William Guthrie, Esq. Grantl-Stcrdary.
Reverend Dr Touch, Grand-Chaplain.
Mr James Bartram, Grantl-Cin-1. ·
Ann the election ~as over, the brethren
walked i,n procession from the New Church Aile.
to the Tron Church, where an appropriate and
eloquent sermon was preached to them by theRe-
verend Mr David Ritchie, one of the ministers of
Edinburgh, from a passage in the Hebrews, " Let
brotherly love continue." The Earl of Dalhousie,
Grand-Master Elect, in absence of the Earl of
Aboyne, was attended, on this occasion, by the
Earl of Errol, and Sir James Stirling, Bart. late
Lord Provost of Edinburgh.
Tm: brethren having re-assembled at the Ki.ng's
Arms.Tavern in the evening, to celebrate the fes-
tival ofSt Andrew, were honoured with the com-
pany of his Excellency the Earl of Moira, Com-
mander in Chief of his Majesty's forces in Scot-
land, and Acting Grand-Master of the Grand
Lodge of England. From the presence of this
nobleman the friends of the Grand Lodge ofEng;
land
Digitized by Google
1'118 HISTORY OF
land antcipatedap:unmhetween that respectable
body and the Grand Lodge of Scotland. ·
. ... ,. . ..
• • . • • l ~ . t •
IN the generaf}f'ist~rj ·of Ft~e·. Masonty we_
have alr~ady" give(j 'an account' of the .schism
which took' p~ce in'.the ·oran·d Lodge of Eng-
land, by the secession ofa numbe,r.of ·men, who,
taJling thems~Jves .AAeient Masops, ·invidiously
bestowed upon the ·Grand l...ru.lge ·the. appella..
tion of Modems. These Ancient Masons, who
certainly merit blame, as the active promoters
of the schistn, chose for their Grand Master,
in the year 1 772, his Grace the Duke of Athol,
who · was then Grand- Master Elect for Scot-
land. From this circumstance, more than from
any particular predilection, on the part of the
Grand Lodge of Scotland, for the Ancient Ma-
sons, ·the most friendly'intercourse has always
subsisted between the two Grand Lodges ; and
the Scotish masons, from their union with the
Ancients, imbibed the same prejudices against the
Grand Lodge of England under the Prince of
Wales and Lord Moira, arising merely from some
trifling innovations in ceremonial observ~nces,
which the Grand Lodge of England had incon-
siderately authorised. From these causes, the
Grand Lodges of Scotland and England, tho' the
brethren of both were admitted into each other's
lodges, never cherished that mutual and friendly
intercourse, which,by the principles of Free Ma- .
sonry, they werebound to institute and preserve.
su,h
Such was the relative ·condltiGri of the:Grand
wdge of Scotland, and that of England u~
the Prince: of Wales; an the day of the pN5eiJt
graoo election.
hr the course·of the ~vening, however, an op•
portunity being offered for the discussion ot:tbls
subject, the Earl -at ·Moira, ' in -an impressive
speech, equally remarkable'for the ·el<>quence ef
its sentiments;and the energy 4 its .enunciatioti,
.related, at considerable length, the condUCt of
the GJ"and Lodge of England to the·Ancient Ma-
sons. He stated, that the hearts and arms of the
Grand Lodge had ever been open for the reeep..
tion of their seceding brethren ; who had obsti-
nately refused to acknowledge their faults, and
return to the bosom of their mother-lodge ; and
that, lhough the Grand Lodge· of England differ-
ed, in a few trifling observances, .from that of
Scotland, they had ever enteJ;tained for Scotish
masons that affection and regard which it is,the
object of Free Masonry to cherish, and the duty
of Free Masons to feel. His Lordship's speech
was received by the brethren with loud and rei-
terated applause,-the most unequivocal mark
of their approbation of its sentiments. From this
period we may date the origin of an union be-
tween the Grand Lodge of Scotland and that of
Englanq, which, we trust, will soon be completely
effected. From such a junction, under the auspi-
~es of his Royal Highness the Prince of Wales,
aided
..:.
niE RISTOilY OF'
aided by the distinguished talents and respectabJ-
ility oftheEarl of Moira,andthe abilities and con-
ciliating manners of the Earl of Dalhousie, Free
Masonry, we hope, will receive additional respec-
tability and vigour, and preserve, in these king-
doms, its primitive purity and simplicity. And,
while its inftuence is ditfUJed from the British
empire to every comer of the world, we trust
that it will continueto be, asit has ever been, the
bane of despotism and oppression; the enemy rL
superstition and fanaticism ; the promoter of ci-
viliution and good order ; the friend ·of uncor-
rupted science, of true benevolence, and unaif'ec-
ted p1ety.
FINIS.
APPEN-
. -· .....~
- - - I I J
oi9,tizect by Gooole
--- -- - E'n <) • • •
APPENDIX.
No I.
CHARTER
CRANTED Br THE MASONS OF SCOTLAND
TO
WILLIAM ST CLAIR OF ROSLIN.
FROM RAY'S MSS. JN THE .ADVOCATES' LIBRARY•.
BEit kend till all men, be thir p'nt letters, we dea-
cons, maistres, and freemen of the masons, within the ·
realme of Scotland, with express consent and assent of
William Shaw, master of work, to our Soveraine Lord,
for sa meikle as from adge to adge it has been observ-
ed amongst us, that the lairds of Roslin has ever been
patrons, and protectors of us and our priviledges; likeas,
our predecessors has obey'd and acknowledged them, as
patrons and protectors, while that, within thir few years,
throw negligence and slothfulness, the samyn has past
furth of us, whereby, not only has the laird of Roslin been
qut
• Thismanuecript it entitled Hay'• Memoin, or a collection of lle'ftral
t.hing• relating to the hlttorical account or the DlOit famed familia o£
l!cotland. Done by Richard Augustine Hay, Cmon Regular at Sain&e
e~nnefs of Paris, priorof Sainte Pierremont, &:c. """ DM.illi 1700.
Pp
Digitized by Google
----'~--
APPENDIX I.
out of his just right, but also our hail craft has been des-
titute of ane patron, and protector, and overseer, which
has engendered many false corruptions and imperfections,
both amongst ourselves, and in our craft, and has given
occasion to many persons to conceive evcl amongst us and
our craft, and to leive otr gr.eat enterprises of policie be
reason of our great misbchavour without correction,
whereby not only the committers of the faults, but also
the honest men are disappointed of their craft and profit :
-As likewais when di\·er, and sundrie contra,·crsies
falls out l\mongst oursclfs, their follows great and mani-
fold incorl\'enicncies through want of ane patron and
protector; we not being able to waite upon the ordi-
uair judges and judgement of tl1is rea)mc, through the
occasione of our povertie and lon~somenes of process, for
remied whereof, and for keeping of good order amGngst
us in all time coming, and for advanc.?ment of our craft
and ~ocatione within this realme, and furthering of poli-
cie within the saymn, W~' for ourseh·es, and in name
of our haill brethering and cmftsmen, with consent fore-
said, agrees and consents, that \Villiam Saint Clair, now
of Roslin, for himself :md for his heirs, purchase and
obtain, att the hands of our Sovereigne Lords libertie,
freedome, and jurisdictio :c upon us, and our successors, in
all times coming~ as patrons and judges to us, and the
several professors of our craft within this realme, whom
off we have power and commission sua that hereafter we
may acknowledge him and hi~ airs, as our patrons and
judges, under our Sovercignc Lord without any kind
of appellation on declyning from his judgement, with
power to the said ·william and his h~irs, to deputt
judges, ane or maire under him, and to use sick ample
and large jurisdictione upon us, and our successors, as
well :lS brugh as land, as it ::;hall please our Sovereigne
Lord
o;9,tiz~d by Google J
-~-··..e:·IC.. ·
APPENDIX I.
Lord to grant him and his airs, sic suhuribitur, William
Shaw, master of work, Thomas Weir, mason in Edin-
burgh, Thomas Robertson, wardine of the lodge of
Dumfermlyne and St Andrews, and taking burden upon
him for his brethrene of the mason craft within the lodges,
and for the commissioners before mentioned, viz. David
Skougall, Alexander Gilbert, and David Spens, for the
lodge of St Andrews, A~Jrew Alisone and Archibald
Angone, commissionars for the lodge of Dumfermlyne,
and Robert Baillie, for the lodge of Haddington, with
our hands laid on the pen be the notar underwritten att
our commands, because we .could not wreate. Ita est,
Laurentius Robertsone, notarius publicus, ad prremissa
requisitus de specialibus ma11datis dictarum persona-
rum scribere neicientium ut aparuerunt teste manu mea
propria.
,Ita est Henricus Banatyne co'notarius ad premissa de
mandatis antedict. person. scribere nescientium ut aparu-
erunt teste manu mea chyrographo, Wallace Andrew
Sympson, John Robertson, S. Andrews, Haddington, P.
Campbell, Will. Aytooe, Aitchison's He:wcn, George
.t\ltone, John Kusserver, f'hos. Pitteriew,.Dumfermelini,
Jlobt. Peires.
A PPEN DJ X.
Dig~ " C::oogle
A P P E N _
D I X.
No II.
CHARTER
GRANTED BY THE MASONS OF SCOTLAN~
IN THE YEAR 1630~
TO
SIR WILLIAM S-r CLAIR.
FllOl\1 HAY'S ?.ISS. IN THE ADYOCATU' LIBRARY.
BE it kend till all men be thir p'nt ktters, us, the
deacons, masters, freemen of the masons and hammer~
men, within the kingdome of Scotlande, that for sameikle,
as from adge to adge, it has been observed amongst us
and our predecessors, that the lairds of Roslin has ever
been patrons and protectors of us .and our priviledges,
Likeas our predecessors has obey'd, reverenced, and ac-
knowledged them as patrons and protectors, whereof
they had letters of protection, and other rights granted
be his Majesties most noble pfogenitors o£1 worthy me-
mory, whilk with sundrie uther lairds of Roslins, his
wreats being consumed in ane flame of fire within the
Castle of Roslin, anno The consummation
and burning thereof being clearly known to us and our
predecessors, deacons, masters, and freemen of the said
· vocatio~
""' --;-:- --- o;9,trz~!'~qoo....g
.....
I~
•*-•..,•-•J
---------- ..,_.
APPENDIX II. 301
voeations, and our protection of the s:1mc and our pri-
viledges thereof, he negligence and slothfulness, being
likely to pass furth of us, where throw not only would
the lairds of Roslin lay out of their just right, hut also
our hail craft would bin destitute of ane patronc,
protcctour, and overseer, whilk would engender manifold
imperfections and corruptions, both amongst ourselves
and in our craft, and give occasione to many perSPns to
conceive evill opinion of us and our craft, and to lea,vtt
off many and great enterprises of policie whilk would
, he undertaken, if our great misbehavour were suffered
to goe on without correction. For remeid whereof,
and for keeping of good ordre amongst' us in aU time
coming, and for advancement of our craft and vocation
witl1in his Hienes kingdom of Scotland, and furdering
of polici~ therein till the most part of our predecessors
for themselves, and in name and behalfe of our hrether-
ene and craftsmen, with express'advice and consent of
William Schaw, master of worke to his Hienes, um-
qle deceased father, of worthy memory, all in one voice,
agreed, consented, and subscribed, that William St. Clair
of Roslin, father to Sir William St. Clair, now of Ros-
lin, for himself and his airs, should purchase and obtain
att the hands of his Majestic, libertie, freedome, and ju-
risdiction upon us and bur predecessors, deacons, mas-
ters, and freemen of said vocations, as patrons and judges
to us, and the haill professors thereof within the said
kingdom, whereof the had power and commission, sua
~at they and we ought hereafter to acknowledge him
.and his airs; as patrons and judges under our Sovereigne
Lord, without any kind of application or declination from
their judgement forever, as the said agreement subscriv'd
be the said master of worke, and our predecessors at mare
~ength proports. In the whilk office, priviledge and ju-
risdictioD
o;9,iized by Google
<
~Ol APPENDIX II.
risdiction over us and our said vocation, the said William
St. Clair of Roslin ever continued till his going to Ireland,
quair ~e presently remains sine the quhilk time- of his de-
parture forth of this realme, there are very many cor-
ruptions and imperfections risen and ingenerit, both
amongst ourselfs and in our said vocations, are alto-
gether likely to decay : And now for safety thereof, we
havins- full experience of the auld, good skill and judge-
ment whilk the said William St. Clair, now of Roslin,
has in our said craft and Yocatione, and for reparation ol
the ruines and manifold corruptions and enormities done .
be unskilfull persons thereintill, we, all in one voice, have
ratifi~ and approven, and be thir p'nts ratifies ana ap-
proves the faresaid former letter of jurisdiction and tiber-
tie, maide and subscriv'd be our brethrene and hi& Hie-
nes, um'qle master of worke for the time, to the said
Will. St. Clair of Roslin, father to the said Sir William
Sinclair, where~y he and his heir$ are acknowledged aa
.our patrons and our judges under our Sovereigne Lord
_over us, and the haill professors of our said vocatione
within this his Hienes kingdom of Scotlande, without
any appelation or declination from their judgement in
time hereafter forever: And further, we all in one voice,
:lS said is, of new, have made, constitute, and ordained,
and be thir present, makes, constitutes, and ordains, the .
11aid Sir William Saint Clair, now of Roslin, and his airs
in all, our only patrons, protectors, and overseers, under
our Sovcreignc I.ord to us and our successors, deacons,
mastrcs, aqd freemen of our said \'Ocations of masons,
hammermen within the haile kingdome ofScotlande,andof
our haille priviledges and jurisdictions belonging thereto,
wherein he, his father and their predecessors, lairds of Ros-
lin, have beenin use of possessione thir many adges bygain,
with full power to him and them, be themselves, their
wardens,
_,.
••
APPENDIX II.
wardens, and deputts, to be constitute be them, to affix
and appoint places of meeting for keeping of good ordere
in the said craft, als oft and sua oft as need shall require
all and sundry persons that may be knowne to be subject
to the said vocation, to make be called absent, aremerti-
ate, gangressors, punish unlawes, casualities, and other
duties whatsomever pertaining or belonging, or that may
fall to be paid be whatsomever person or persons subject
to the said cr.lft, to aske, crave, receive, intromitt with,
and uplift, and the samen to their own proper use, to ap·
ply deputts under them in the said office, with clerks, ser-
jents, assisters, and all other officers and members of
(said) court, needfull to make, create, substitute, and or-
dain, for whom they shall be holden to answer all and
sundry plents, actions, and causes pertaining to the said
craft and vocation, and against whatsomever person or
persons, professors thereof, to hear, discuss, decerne,
and decyde acts, duties, and sentences, thereupon to pro-
nounce : And the samen to due execution, to cause, de-
putt, and· generallie all and sundtie other priviledges,
liberties, and immunities whatsomever concerning the
said craft, to doe, use, and exercc, and cause to be
done and exerced, and keeped siklike, and als freely in all
respects as any others their predecessors has done, or
might have done themselves, in any time by gone, freely,
quietly, well, and in peace; but any revocatione, obsta-
cle, impediment, or again calling whatsomever. In wit-
ness of the whilke thing, yir presents written be Alexan-
der Aikin, servitor to Andrew Hay, writter, we have
subscribed thir p'nts with our hands at Ed 1630 .••••
Si.: suhscrihitu1·, the lodge of Dundee, Robert Strachane,
master, Andrew Wast, and David Whit, masters in Dun-
.dee, with our hands att the pen led be the notar under
subscrive, and att our commands, because we cannot writt,
Thomas
------r-- .·-~::a.-"IF.,..d
APPENDIX II.
Thomas Robertson, notarius publicus aperit. Robert
Johnstone, master, David Massone, master. The lodge
of Edinburgh, William Wallace, deacone, John Watt,
Thomas Patersone, Thomas Fleeming, wardein in Edin-
burgh, and Hugh Forrest, with our hands att the pen be
the notar under subscreve, and for us, at our command,
because we cannot writt, Thomas Fleeming, notarius
aperit. Robert Caldwell, in Glasgow, with my hand at
the pen, led be the notar under subscrive, and for me,
because I cannot writt myself, Henrisone, notarius aperit.
The lodge of Glasgow, John Boyd, deacone, Robert
Boyd, ane of the masters, Hew Duak, decone of the ma-
son craft and wrights of Ayre, and George Lydell, dea-
cone of Squaremen, and was quartermaster. The lodge
of Stirling, John Thomsone, James Ryve. I John, servi-
tor to the master of the crafts in Stirling, with my hand
att the pen led by the notar, under subscriving for me,
because I cannot writt, Henrisone, notarius aperit. The
lodge of Dumfermling, Robert Alisone, one of the mas-
ters of Dumfermling, I John Btirnock, ane of the mas-
ters of Dumfermling, with my hand att the pen led be
the notar under subscrive, and for me, at my command,
because I cannot writt myself, Henrisone, notar aperit.
David Robertson, ane of the masters, Andrew Masson,
master, and Thomas Parsone, of the said lodge of Saint
Andrews.
APPENDIX.
Digitized by Google ~
APPENDIX.
No. III,
LAWS AND REGULA 'I IONS
OF THE
GRAND LODGE
OF
SCOTLAND.
CHAP. I.
I. THAT the Grand Lodge of Scotland shall consist
of a Grand-Master, Grand-Master Depute and Sub-
stitute, Senior and Junior Grand-Wardens, Grand-
Treasurer, Secretary, Chaplain, Clerk, and Tyler, of-
fice-bearers. The Master and two Wardens of the
Lodges of Edinburgh, holding of the Grand Lodge,
Masters of Country Lodges, and their Wardens, or
proxies, and their Wardens, duly and regularly appoint-
ed, representing Lodges in the country holding of the
Grand Lodge.
II. That the Grand-Master, when present, fhall pre-
side in the Grand Lodge, whose commands relating to
the order and regulation of the Lodge shall be most im-
plicitly obeyed; and to whom every member, when speak-
ing, shall ad!lress himself.
Q q III.
.. - ..__ ~
,.
APPENDIX III.
III. That in the absence of the Grand-Master, at
the celebration of the Festival of St Andrew, or at lay-
ing a foundation-stone when a processicn has been or-
dered, the latest Past Grand-Master present shall pre-
side; failing of whom, the Grand-Master Depute, or
Grand-Master Substitute, in their order; or such per-
son, being a Master, as the Grand Lodge shall ap-
point.
IV. That no Brother can be a member of the Grand
Lodge, unless he has been raised to the sublime de-
gree of Master-Mason.
C"li A P. II.
ELECTION.
I. THAT ~1e Grand Lodge shall meet annually on the
3oth November, being the Festival of St Andrew, the
tutelar Saint of Scotland, in order to elect the Grand-
Master and theit- office-bearers, enumerated in Chap. L
sect. 1. But when the 30th of November shall at any
time happen to faU on Sunday, the election shall proceed
on the day following.
II. That the same Grand-Master shall not continue in
office for a longer period than two years successively.
III. That the Grand-Master &hall have tl- ~ choice of
his own Depute, unless when the Grand Lodge shall
make choice of a Grand-Master Elect to succeed the
Grand·Master then in the chair ; in that case the Gnnd-
Master Elect shall also be Grand-Master Depute.
IV. The Grand Wardens shall not continue in their
respectirc
APPENDIX Ill.
respective offices for a longer period than two years at
one time.
V. The Grand-Master Substitute, Treasurer, Secretary,
Chaplain, Clerk, and Tyler, shall be elected and con-
tinued in office from· year to year during the pleasure of
the Grand Lodge.
VI. Upon the death of any of the above office-bearers,
the Grand Lodge shall appoint a brother to act till the
~rst annual election ; excepting the offices. of Grand-
Master, and Depute, which shall remain vacant until
that period.
C H A P. III.
OF TREASURER, SECRETARY, AND CLERK.
I. THAT the Treasurer shall be solely intru~tcd with
the funds belonging to the Gnnd Lodgr, the meet-·
ings of which he ought to attend regularly, so as to
give any information that may be req1,1ired re-<>p&t-
ing the state of the f11nds ; and he shall be bound to
give in a state of his accounts and intromissions there-
with, at least once every year, six months previous to the
annual election, in order that they may be inspected, and,
if found right, that he may be e1:onered.
II. That it shall be the business of the Secretary to
correspond with the lodbes upon all matters relative to
the Grand Lodge, to keep the records when completed,
and the seal of the Grand Lodge, and to issue diplomas,
when required, to any brother who is certi!!ed to be a
member of a lodge holding of the Grand Lodge of Scot-
land; which certificate shall be signed by, at least, two of
the principal office-bearers of such lodge.
Q q 2 DIPLOMA.
.......
Digitized by Google
APPENDIX III.
DIPLOMA.
OMNIBUS & SINGULIS qui has litcras videant
salutem. ScuNT omnes fratrem nostrum
qui hasce Iiteras affert TIR.OCINIA. sua rite
posuisse CooPERATOREM factum esse, nee non Sublimem
Ordinem ARCHITECTONICUM assecutum esse in Socie--
tate Architectonica nostljl
numero a SuMMA SociETATE,
ARCHITECTONICA ScoTICA~ condita et constituta sicuti
constat a chartis nostris in Summa Societate et magistro
apparitoribusq. dietz soc. explicatis. In testimonio quo-
rum hre literre, a fratre nostro qui in SuMMA SociETATE
est ab epistolis, subscriptz sunt sub Summz Soc. Sigilla.
Edina: die mensis Anno
Domini 18 nee non lucis 58
TRANSLAT{ON,
APPENDIX III.
TRANSLATION.
TO ALL AND SUNDRY, to whose know~edgo
these presents shall come Greeting, These are tp certify
that the bearer, Brother was
duly entered an APPRENTICJi, passed FELLOW CRAFT,
tlnd raised to the sublime degree of M.tsTER MASON
in the lodge holding o£
the GRAND LoDGE of ScoTLAND, as appears from au-
thentic documents in the hands of the Master and office-
l>earers of said lodge, produced to the Grand Lodg~
aforesaid.
In testimony whereof, these presents are subscribed by
the Grand-Secretary, and the seal of the Grand Lodge
hereto appended At Edinburgh the
day of in the year of our Lord one thousand
~~h~ h\lndred and and of light 58
Ill.
~-~ --=---------. Digitized by Google
310. APPENDIX ill.
III. That it shall be the business Qf the Grand-Clerk to
engross the minutes, to enrol the names of entrants,
and to keep the ordinary account books of the Grand
Lodge; but to have the use of the whole records and
seal of the Grand Lodge when he has occasion for
them.
CHAP. IV.
IUtGULATIOlCS llE.GAlll>ING GlUND-STEWAR.DS.
I, FROM the institution of the Grand Lodge, it has been
the practice of each of the Masters, in and about Edin-
burgh, to name one of their brethren to be a Gn.nd-
Steward, subject to the approbation or disapprobation o(
the Grand Lodge.
II. That from these brethren, so named, the Grand-
Master, or his Deputes, (with the approbation of the
Grand Lodge) elect and appoint such a number of Grand-
Stewards as they may think necessary.
III. That the brethren thus chosen by the Grand
Lodge, to be Grand-Stewards, are to elect from amongst
themselves a Master and Wardens.
IV. That the Granli..Stewards thus appointed be in-
trusted with the management of the Feast of Saint An-
drew, and other festivals, when necessary, under the
direction of the Grand Lodge.
v.
..- -
~PENDIX m.
V. That~ instead of the plan followed for some time
past, of the Grand-Stewards attendi.ng at the festivals as
servants, or waiters, to the office-bearers and members of
the Grand Lodge, (which certainly neither was, nor
could be the original intention of the institution) each
Grand-Steward shall in future appoint an assistant to do
that duty. The Grand-Stewards themselves being only
obliged to give directions, respecting the mode and man-
ner in which such entertainment shall be conducted, and
contracting for the same with the pronders thereof, un-
der the authority aforesaid.
VI. That the Assistant Stewards, at processions, shall
walk before the Grand-Stewards with inferior rods and
clothing ; and, at the introduction of the Grand Lodge
into the hall, or lodge, these assistants shall announce
the arrival of the Grand Lodge with the usual and ac•
customed honours; the Grand-Stewards, with their Mas-
ter and Wardens at their head, walking in procession as
office-bearers of ihe Grand Lodge in their proper rods
and clothing.
VII. In order to secure the due performance of the
duties incumbent on every Grand-Steward, and that
Masters of lodges may pay due attention to the brother
recommended, it is humbly suggested that each lodge
should be responsible for. the character df the brother
whom they recommend, and that each Grand-Steward
elected be responsible for the assistant he may choose.
CHAp.
I
Digitized by Google
-- --
312 APPENDIX llL
CHAP. V.
STANDING COMMITTEE.
I. THAT there shall be a standing committee of the
Grand Lodge, which shall consist of the Grand-Master,
in his absence his Depute, and in his absence the Su~
stitute Gr.and-Master, nine Masters of Edinburgh lodges,
and six proxy Masters, who shall attend to such matters
as shall be remitted .to them by the Grand Lodge. FiTe
to be a quorum.
II..That the Grand-Master, Depute, or Substitute, in
their order, shall be convener and president of the com-
mittee, and that the Grand-Secretary, and Grand-Clerk,
shall attend all the meetings of said committee.
CHAP. VI.
Q.!JARTERLY MEETINGS.
I. THAT the Grand Lodge shall hold four quarterly
eommunications, or meetings, during each year, viz.
upon the first Monday of February, first Monday of
May, first Mondays of August and November, at which
all business relative to the Grand Lodge shall be dis-
cus~ed; but, if necessary, the Grand Lodge may adjourn
these meetings to a future day, or days, for the dispatch
of business.
II. That the Grand-l\hster Depute shall onlybe entitled
to vote upon any question under the discussion of the
Grand Lodge, when presiding in absence of the Grand-
Master;.
Digitized by oogI
Al\PENDIX III.
Master ; arid the Grand-Master Substitute only when
presiding in absence of the Grand-Master Depute, unless
such Grand-Master Depute and Substitute hold proxies
from country lodges holding of the Grand Lodge.
111. That the Grand-Treasurer, Secretary, Chaplain,
and Clerk, shall not be entitled to vote upon any business
before the Grand Lodge, unless they hold proxies as
aforesaid ; and the Tyler shall in no event have any
vote.
IV. That in absence of the Grand-Master, Grand-
Master Depute, and Grand-Master Substitute, the Senior
or Junior Grand-Warden shall preside in their order.
And, in their absence, the principal chairs of the Grand
Lodge shall be filled by the Masters of lodges present,
or proxy Masters, according to the seniority of such
lodges.
V. That when any question before the Grand Lodge
shall have been fully and regularly heard, the majority of
the members present shall determine the point at issue ;
and in case of an equality of voices, the Grand-Master
presiding shall have the decisive vote.
Vl. That when any member of the Grand Lodge
makes a motion, which, is seconded by another mem-
ber, such motion shall be disposed of before any other
can be brought for\vard.
VII. That the Masters of lodges present shall take
their places upon the right and left of the Grand-Master,
according to their seniority. ·
Rr vm...
Digitized by Google
314 APPENDIX m.
Vlll. That no member of the Grand Lodge shall be
entitled to speak, or vote, in the Grand Lodse, unless he
is clothed in the proper official regalia of the lodge he
represents, or in the clothing Qf one of the office-beaien
of the Grand Lodge.
CHAP. VII.
GRAND VISITATIONS
I. TUAT the Grand-Master and office..bearers of t;he
Grand Lodge shall at least once a year visit the several
lodges in Edinburgh holding of her, either upon a night
of the usual meeting of the lodge to be visited, or upon
such other night as the Gran4-~aster may appoint for
visiting them.
II. That upon these occasions, the Masters, Warden~
and other office-bearers of the lodges, shall resign their
respective chairs in the lodge to the Grand-Master, and
other officers of the Grand Lodge who are to preside.
· CHAP. Vlll.
PROVINCIAL GRAND-MASTERS, AND DISTRICTS.
I. THAT Scotland shall be divided into sixteen dis-
tricts, or provinces, as under, and each district, or pro-
vince, shall have a Provincial Grand-Master appointed
by the Grand Lodge by special commission.
~--- --- -~--
APPENDIX UI. ·
II. That such Provincial Grand-Master shall be at li-
berty to choose two brethren to be his Wardens, and a
Secretary; all of whom must be Master-Maeons.
III. That in'order to qualify a Provincial Grand-Mas-
ter to sit and vote in the Grand Lodge, he must hold
a proxy from a lodge in the country ; every Pro-
'rincial Grand-Master, however, whether he holds a
proxy, or not, shall be entitled to attend and give his
opinion in the Grand Lodge upon any question before it
relating to the district over which'he is Provincial Grand-
Master.
IV. That when Provincial Grand-Masters, one ot
more of them, attend the Festinl of St Andrew, or any
public maaoaic procession with the Grand Lodge, sucb
Provincial Grand-Masters shall be arranged immediately
behind the offiGe-bearers of the Grand Lodge, according
to their seniorityi which seniority is to be regulated by
that of the oldest lodge in their respective dittricts.
And also, upon such occasions, the Provincial Grand-
Masters shall appear in their own proper clo~ing.
J.EGULATIONS AND INS"tRUCTIONS FOR THE GOVERNWlNT
OF PROViNCIAL GRAND MASTERS.
I. THAT tfte Provincial Grand-Master shall, with hia
earliest convenience, assemble and convene, at a place!
most suitable and convenient for all concerned, the re-
spective lodges in his diftrict, and lay before them his
commission from the~Grand Lodge.
· R r 2 . II.
o;9,tiz~d by Google
\
APPENDIX III.
II. That it is of the utmost consequence to be ac-
~;:urately informed, whether the lodges holding of the
Grand Lodge have literally complied with the requisites
of the act of Parliament, the Provincial Grand-Master
is requested particularly to attend, that the lodges in his
district have strictly and literally complied with the
terms of the act of Parliament, and the resolutions of
'the Grand Lodge, a copy of which accompanies these
instructions.
III. That the Provincial Grand-Masters shall visit and
assemble the lodges in their district, at fixed and stated
times and places, as may be agreed to by him and them
progressively, in such central places as may best suit the
attendance of the brethren of the lodges under his charge,
fourteen days at least prior to the quarterly communica-
tions of the Grand Lodge, if not four tim~ts, at least
twice in every year ; the Provincial Grand-Master always
giving the respective lodges due and seasonable notifica-
tion, when and where such meeting or meetings are m
be held.·
IV. That all complaints, whether by individual breth-
ren of lodges, or by one lodge against another, shall be
given in writing, and must in the first place be brought
before the Provincial Grand-Master of the district : That
he shall immediately, or as soon as convenient, as-
semble the Masters and Wardens of all the lodges in his
district, and lay the complaint before them, when they,
or the majority of those present,' shall investigate the
matter, and give such judgment thereon as shall appear
to them just and proper.
v.
APPENDIX III.
V. That the ProvincialGrand Lodges, convened for de-
termining such complaints, shall consist only of the Mas-
ters and Wardens duly elected by their respective lodges
for the year; the Proyincial Grand-Master, or in case of
his absence,.the Master of the senior lodge present, to be
preses and convener ; and in all questions brought be-
fore them, the majority of votes shall determine the mat-
ter.
Vl. That the Masters and Wardens of the respectiYe
lodgea shall not be entitled to have a vote at any of
these meetings till such time as they produce their aQ-
nual certificate from the Grand Lodge, of their having
complied with the requisites of the act of Parliament,
and resolutions of the Grand Lodge.
VII. That should either of the parties be dissatisfied
with the judgment pronounced, they may bring it under
the review of the Grand Lodge by appeal : Or should
the Provincial Grand Lodge feel themselves difficulted,
the Provincial Grand-Master may report the case to the
Grand Lodge for their opiniem and direction.
VIII. That in case either of an appeal by the parties,
or a report by the Provincial Grand-Master, the com-
plaint, with all the papers and productions, and the proof
taken therein, must be transmitted to the Grand-Secre-
tary, or Grand-Clerk, on or before the first Monday of
February, the first Monday of May, the first Monday of ·
August, or the first Monday of November; these being
the regular quarterly cbmmunications of the Grand Lodge
of Scotland.
IX. That the Provincial Grand-Master shall make iri-
~uiry into the orders and degrees of Masonry practised
in
-·----. --
Digitized by Google
APPENDIX IlL
in the respective lodges in his district, and alWl strictly
prohibit and discharge them from practising any other
degrees than that of St ·Johtls Mumry, ~onsisting of
. .A~trmti", Ftlhw Cr11j4 and Masttr Mason, the only
' three d~s sanCtioned by the Grand Lodge of Scot-
land.
X. That the Provincial Grand-Master shall make his
secretary, or clerk, keep regular minutes of all meetings
and proceedings held by him and his lodge ; and that
once ill every year, m. previous to the quarterly com-
munication in February, the said setretary, or clerk, shall
transmit an abstract of these proceedings to the Grand-
Secretary, or Grand-Clerk, in order that the same may
be laid before the Grand Lodge, and in this report par-
ticularly to specify, tst, The names of the lodges in the
district that are in existence, and hold regular and stated
meetings, and have complied with the requisites of the
act of Parliament, and the regulationsof the Grand Lodge:
And, :1dly, A list of those lodge. tll2t do nOt hold regu-
lar meetings, the cause of their discontinuance, and as
nearly as possible, the time when they gave up holding
these meetings, ·SO that the Grand Lodge may be ac-
curately informed what lodge~ are still in existence, and
take such measures as may appear necessary for strilr.ing
these donnant lodges from the roll of the Grand Lodge.
C H A P. IX.
f.RECTION AND CONSECRATION OF LODGES.
I. THAT if any number of brethren, not less than
twenty-one, shall wish to erect a new lodge within Edin-
. burgh,
Digitized by Google ...
APPENDIX Ill.
I
burgh, or $uburbs thereof, they shall apply to the Grand
Lodge by a written petition, signed by them, setting'
forth the reasons for which they desire such lodge to be
erected, craving the Grand Lodge for her permission and
protection ; which petition must be signed by. them, and
alongst with it there must be produc~ to the Grand
Lodge a recommendatory certificate, signed by the Mas-
ters and Wardens ·of at least two of the sister 'lodges in
the city.
II. But, if in the country, seven htethren should apply
to the Grand Lodge by petition, setting forth .their recr-
sons as aforesaid;and alongst therewith should produce a
recommendatory certificate, signed by the Masters and
officers of two of the nearest lodges in the district
where such lodge is craved to be erected, this petition,
with the recommendations, shall then be laid before the
Provincial Grand-Master, .and if, upon inquiry, he ap-
proves thereof, he shall mark and subscribe the said pe-
, tition accordingly, and transmit the same forthwith to the
Secretary of the Grand Lodge•
..
III. That after any room, or hall, shall be erected
for the ~pedal purpose of holding masonic meetings,
by any lodge holding of the Grand l.odge, the Master
and Wardens of such loc\ge shall apply by petition to the
Grand Lodge, praying to have the same consecrated, and
that previous to any such masonic meeting being held
therein.
IV. That upon a charter being ·granted, there shall be
paid for it a fee of ten guineas to the Grand Lodge,
~nd that before such charter is expeded.
v.
---4L~--~·----- _........... --..-~
-- --......- - --- ...
320 APPENDIX m.
V. That upon any charter ·being granted, erecting a
lodge within Edinburgh, and suburbs, the Master and
Wardens of such lodge, previous to its holding any meet-
ing, and before the charter is delivered, must appear in
the Grand Lodge, and there take the assurance of fi-
delity to the Grand Lodge ; and if, in the country, the
Master and Wardens shall take such assurance before the
Provincial Grand-Master of the district, who shall no-
tify the same forthw'ith to the Secretary of the Grand
Lodge.
Vt That all charters shall bear date from the day of
presenting of the petitions to the Grand-Lodge, and be
entitled ·to precedence accordingly. The dues for admit-
ting each apprentice shall not be less than one guin~
CHAP. X.
fORM OF PROCESS BEFORE THE GRAND LODGit.
I. THAT when' any dispute arises betwixt any of the
sister lodges in Edinburgh, or any of the brethren, the
party complaining shall lay the same before the Grand
Lodge by a written petition and memorial, stating dis-
tinctly the matters complained of, and subscribed by the
.complainer or complainers.
II. That two copies of such petition and memorial shall
be lodged with the Grand-Secretary, one for the Grand-
Master, and the other for the record.
III.
«
APPENDIX III.
III. That with each petition there shall be paid a fee
of five shillings to the Clerk.
IV. That petitions must be so lodged, and fees paid,
at least forty-eight hours previous to the' next· quar-
terly communication of the Grand Lodge.
V. That the party complained upon shall be ent\tled
to an- extracted copy of such petition, upon paying to the
Clerk a fee of two shillings and sixpence for the first
sheet, and one shilling and sixpence for every after sheet.
VI. That should the Grand Lodge think it requisite
that written answers be made to such petition, there
shall be paid therewith a fee of five shillings to the
Clerk, and so forth, with each paper given in by one
party, and extract copy required by the other.
VII. That over and above the foresaid fees, there shall
be paid to the Clerk for each sheet of extract of the
proceedings, two shillings and sitpence first sheet, and
one shilling and sixpence remainder, by the party re-
quiring the same.
CHAP. XI.
Q..UALIFYING AND TRANSMITTING THE NAMES elF
ENTRANTS.
I. THAT until the· act made in the 39th year of his
present Majesty George III. shall be repealed, the Grand
Lodge expressly enjoin, that aU lodges holding of her, as
they value her maternal affection and support, shall posi-
tlively comply with the requisites of the act of Parliament,
Sa and
Digitized by Coogle
322 AP.PENDIX IU.
and enactrrutnts of the Grand Lodge ·ih consequence
thereof, which are in substance as follows.
" 111, That two of t)ie member& of each lodge shall
" certify upon oath, before any justice of the ~' or
" other magistrate, that " The lodge haa, before the ~
" sing of the said act, been usually held under the denomi-
" tion of a lodge of Free Masons, and in conformity to
" the rules prevailinJ amoog the lodges of Free MaiOill
" In this kingdom i,. and which affidnit, certified by t1le ·
" magis~ate before whom it is taken, must be registeretl
" by the sheriff-clerk in the county, where· the parti-
" c:ular lQdge holds her meetings, within twe caleadar
" month8 from the 12th of July last. Atld,
" 'ldi], That oee of the presiding offitera of the loclgt
" do record with the sheriff'-clerk within the same apace:
" lst, The name by which the lodge is Cliatinguiahed :
" 'lfi, The place and days of meeting ~ and 3d, tht
" names and d~criptions (designations) of the atteaclin&
" members.
" And the Grand Lodg.e, responsible for .the regular
" conduct of the Masons of sCotland holding of them,
" which they are firmly persuaded is, without exception,
" entirely consonant to the principles of the craft, yet,
" anxious to guard against every intnltion em their an-
" dent and respectable order, or upon her established and
" accustomed forms, do unanimously resolve,
" 1mo, That every lodge boldine of the Grand Lodgt
" of Scotland, shall, within six 100nths {rom this elate,
" apply for a certificate from the Gnnd Lodge ; whicll
" certificate ahall beat an espreta renewal of power to
" hold
•
--- ........ ,., Digitized by Goool~
-:-.. • -- ~A/87· - 1
APPENDIX m.
• hold masonic meetings under her sanction and au-
• thority; and which shaU not be granted without pro-
u duction of evidence to the Most Worahipful the Grand-
e-e Masrer, his Depute, or Substitute, that the act of
" Parliament above recited has been lite~lly complied
" with. And e-rery lodge which shall not within the said
• space demand and obtain such certificate, shall be ex-
" punged from the Grand-Roll, have consequently no
"' right thereafter, by her presiding oili~ or by proxy,
" to sit or vote at their meetings, and be deprived of
" all future protection of the Grand Lodge.
" 2th, That the said certificate shall be subscribed by
" the Grand-Master, his Depute, or Substitute, and by
" the Secretary and Clerk for the time, and have the seal
" of the Grand Lodge appended thereto ; for which a
" fee of five shillings, aud no more, at the disposal of
" the Grand Lodge, shall be exacted.
" 31.io, That the said cettific:ate ahall be thereafter ap-
" plied for, on or before the 25th day of April 18o1,
" and of every succeeding year, and evidence produced,
" ~s before-mentioned, so long as the said·.act is in
" force, under the same certification of being so ex-
" punged from the roll in case of failure.
" 4fo, That no such certificate shall be'granted, until
" all the arrears due to the Grand Lodge.be discharged.
" sto, That the names of aU the lodges who have so
n obtained certificates, shall be annually tranSmitted to
" one of his Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State,
•• and to the Lord Advocate of Scodand.n
n.
/
.,._,..___ -- -
-- Digitized by Google
APPENDIX ill. .
II. That no lodge, holding of the Grand Lodge, shall
hold any private meeting for any other purpose than the
three great orders of Scotish Masonry, of Apprentice,
Fellow Craft, and Master-Mason, being the ancient or-
der of St John, under certification, that the Grand Lodge,
upon conviction, shall impose such censure, or even de-
prive such lodge offending, of her charter, according to
the particular circumstances of ihe case ; excepting al-
ways such meetings as may be held relating to the atrain
of the Lodge.
C H .A P. XII.
J'B.R&GULA1l LODGES.
I. TH.&T no lodge holding of the Grand Lodge of
Scotland, shall have any communication or intercourse
with any lodge in Scotland not holding of her, under the
penalty of being deprived of her.charter ; and Provincial
Grand-Masters are strictly enjoined, not to allow any
lodge in Scotland not h<?lding ofthe Grand Lodge to attend
him at any masonic meeting or procession whatever.
CHAP. Xlll.
PROXIES.
I. THAT no proxy commission shall he received by
the Grand Lodge, but such as are dated on one or other
of the two StJohn's days, vi~. 24th June, and 27th De.
cember,
APPENDIX III.
cember ; and which commission must be conceived in as
nearly the terms following as possible.
We, the Master and Wardens of the Lodge
holding of the Grand Lodge of Scotland, find- .
ing.it inconvenient to attend the quarterly communica~
tions, and 0ther meetings of the Grand Lodge, do hereby,
with the consent and approbation of our brethren, nomi-
nate and appoint our truly and well-beloved brother
Master-Mason of the Lodge
holding of the Grand Lodge of ·
Scotland, to be our Representative in said Grand Lodge,
with full power to him to make choice of two Brethren,
-Master-Masons, to he his W:lrlLms• hereby authorizing
our said Representative and his said Wardens to act and
vote upon all questions that may come before the said
Grand Lodge, as fully and- freely in an ·respects as we
could do ourselves if personally present.
Given under our hands, and seal of the Lodge, in full
Lodge assembled, this day of in the . 1
year of .out Lord one thousand eight hundred .
and and of light 58
•••••• •
•
•
Master•
(SEAL)
••••••
• Sen-nary.
Senior Warden.
Junior Warden•
II. That such commission shaH rerftain valid for one .
year certain, and thereafter until superseded by another
regularly granted and reported to the Grand Lodge.
III. That no proxy commission shall be received which
has not been presented at the first ot second ·quarterly
meeting after its date.
~;That the Wardens namei by the said Proxy
Master
Digitized by Google
APPENDIX III.
Master shall continue in office for one year at least ·after
their nomination.
V. That with each pro:1y commission their shall be
paid a fee of two shillings and si:~pence to the clerk.
VI. That no proxy commiaaion shall be received until
auch time as the lodge shall have settled all arrears to the
Grand Lodge ; and that each commission shall be lodged
at least two days before the quarterly communication,
with the Grand Secretary or Clerk.
CHAP. XIV.
CBAIUTIES.
I. Ts&T·the charity committee shall be an open C3CJIIl.
mittee.
n. That the said committee shall meet for the distri-
bution of charity at such times as the Grand Lodge at
the quarterly·communication shall appoint;
III. That no petition for charity shall be receind.
unless the petitioner be a member of a lodge holding
of the Grand Lodge, or the widow or child of such
member ; and which petition must be certified by a
Muter of a lodge, or Proxy Master regularly qualwed,
that the petitioner is not only an object of the Grand
Lodge's charity, but to the best of his knowledge and be.
lief is not in any way supported from any other fund,
nor otherwise than by his or her industry.
IV. That each petition for charity, so attested, shall
be lodged with the Grand Secretary at least three days
previous to any quarterly communication.
. v.
APPENDIX III.
V. That nothing contained in tiUs chapter aball be
construed to encroach upon the powen vested in the
Grand-Master, or his Substitute, with x.egard to givin&
interim charities from the funds of the Grand Lodge•
.~PPENDIX.
•
Digitized by Google
·--..----..--~
D1Q:tied b~OO
·zl·---~------ -
le - _
...........
_,._... - -- ·
APP-END I 4·
No. IV.
-
-
LODGES
HOLDING OF THE GRAND LODGE OF SCOTLAND,
CLASSED INTO DISTRICTS,
OVU WHICH PllOVJNCIAL GUJm-loiASTEJlS AU: APPOINTED.
LA N A R K S HI R E.
UPP.Elt WAilD.
Lord Archibald Hamilton, P. o. M.
N~~>
• tk NAMES OF LODGES.
RJL
1o. Hamilton
22. Lesmahagoe
.23. Old Lodge, .Laoark.
34· Coltness
94• Lanark Kilwinning
J53· Lesmabagoe
l64· Hamilton Kilwhming
Tt
N..
.. tk NAMES OF LODGES.
R.U.
187. Strathavcn Kilwizmiog
221. Ainbie StJohn
22. Biggar Linlithgow, now
Free Operati.tes
251. StJohn's Carluke
270. Operatiw:·Lodge, .Air-
chic
,
.
Digitized by Google
..
330 APPENDIX IV.
L A N A R K S H I R ~:
Ul'DJ!R WAJlD•.
:No. No.
'"tin NAMES OF LODGES. ,. ~~~ NAMES OF LODGES:
.R.n. Roll.
7· Glasgow Kilwinning 145· Glasgow St Mungo
29. Glasg'Jw St Mungo Royal Arch
30. Kirkintiiloch I 46. Cambuslang Royal Arch
Kih-ytb . H9· Rutherglcn Royal Arch
70· Glasgow Montrose J 50. Partick St Mary
76. Gla~~w Argytc ~69- Glasgow Shewc:lstou St
77· Gl:!sgow Royal Arch Jc.hn
87. GlasgJtw Thime & ltoR 19-J. Calder Argyi. by Gla.s~
11 I. Gh~gow Thistle gow
112. New Monkfand MOiltt<* 213. Muniesburglt Kilsyth
128. Glasgow St Mark 238. Old ·Monkland St
12~. Glasgo;\· Union & Crow1:1 James's
l44· Gbsgow S: D:l'Jicl's 139· Gla~gow St Patrick's
A YR S II IRE.
Jilllim:z c.u:IJ.':b:/1 if litirfi.:ld, Esq. P. G. -M.
-.Yo. N..
•~ the . NAMES OF LODGES. ., th• NA..\1ES OF LODGES.
R.tl. • Roll.
14• Maybole . 171. Girvl¥1 St Andrew's
24. Kilmarnock 172. Galston St Patr:ck's Kil~
110. Irvine Navig2tion ' marnoc~
136. SfMarnock'sKilmarnock. 174· Tarbolton St David's
163. Ayr Kilwioning 178. Tarbolton Sl James's
165. St ~s's New Town of 182. Operative Lodgt', Ayr.
Ayr - 198. Irvine St ARdrew~s
166. St Ancltew's Kilma~k 209. StJohn's :Reith
167. Thistle Lodge S~warton zzo. ~oyal Arch Ayr
..
·------ -----
4PPENDIX IV.
268. St Th:>mas Muirkirk- .
venson
232. Largs StJohn
269. St Clement's Riccarton
271. Ayr and Renfrew Mili-
240. St Mungo's Mauchline
264. Royal Arc)J Maybole
tary St Paul
D U M F R I E S- S H I R E.
Charles Sharp ofHoddam, E.rq. P. G. M.
,y,_ No.
•~ tht NAMES OF LODGES. •M tht NAMES OF LODGES.
R~ R~
61. Dumfries Kilwinning '59· Hartfell Lodge, Molfat
74• Dumfries Thistle Lodge 179· St Andrew's, Dumfries
75· Dumfries St Michael's 184. Operative Lodge, Dum-
Dumfries Journeymen fries
99• Annan St Andrew's 195· Senquhar Kilwinning
127. St Magdalene's Lochma- 204. Union Lodge, Dumfries
ben 2i5. StJohn's New Abbey,
t 34· Eskdale Kilwinning Dumfries
Langholm 216. Union Lodge, Carlisle
139· Nithsdale St Paul 255• St Ruth's Ruthwell
WIGTQN AND KIRKCUDBRIGHT.
Sir Alexander Gordon ofCulvenan, P. o. M.
No. N..
,, tk NAMES OF LODGES. o tht NAMES OF LODGES.
Roll. Roll•.
43· St-Cutbbcrt's Kirkcud- , 214. St Stephen's Gatebouse.
bright of Fleet
12:. St Bernard's Kilwinning 245· Union Lodge, Newton-
us. Wigton Kilwinning Douglas
183. St Andrew's Cree Bridge 248. St Thoroas, Whitborn
253· StJohn's,CastleDouglas
•
T t 2 Pi:&JII.ES,
Digitized by Google
• •
- - - ----~----A- ----------~-""1
\
APPENDIX IV.
P~EBLES, SELKIRK, ROXBURGH, AND
BERWICK.
G~org~ Douglas of CIJ'V~rs~ Esq. P. G. M.
No.
• 1M NAMES OF LODGES.
JUJJ.
25. Dunse
26. Old Lodge, Peebles
35· Selkirk
55· CutDberland K.ilwinning
Peebles
69. Kelso
No.
•• the NAMES OF LODGP3.
Roll.
84. St Abb's
·89- Dunbar Castle
J 30. Jedburgh
141. Hawick
J73• St Luke's, Lauder
243· St Andrew'&, Jedburgh
DUMBARTON AND RENFREW.
Vacant.
No. No.
.., tk NAMES OF LODGES. ,. tbt NAMES OF LODGES.
Roll. Roll.
15. Greenock Kilwinning 203. Roy:tl Arch, Pollock.-
20. DuiDbarton Kilwinning sbaws
17o. Paisley St Merrion's 208. St Barchan's at Kilbar-
J 7S· St James's, Paisley chan
191. Paisley Royal Arch 229. Leven StJohn
J 93· Renfrew Prince of Wales 234· Greenock St John
Lodge 272. Garthland St \Vinnoch's
FIFES HIRE.
. .
Gm. Sir James StClair Erskin~, Bart. P. G. M.
·No.
,. -. NAMES OF LODGES.
.Roll.
21. Cupar of Fife StJohn
27. St ·Andrew's at St An-
drews
No.
• tbt NAMES OF LODGES.
Roll.
28•. Dunfermline
Falkland StJohn
51. Dysart
APPENDIX IV. 333
71. lnverkeithing 119. ~t Ayle's, Anstruther
86. K.irkcaldy 157, Auchtermuchty St Cyre
91. St Regulus, Cupar of Fue 161. Oswald of Dunniekier's
105. St Andrew's, Caail Lodge
107. Ceres 185. St Andrew's, Pitten-
114· Elgin's Lodge, Leven weem
118. St Leonard's, Kinghorn 231. St Bride's, Kirkcaldy
LINLITHGOW, STIRLING, AND CLACK-
MANNAN.
Major Mayne ofPowislogie, P. G. M'.
N,. No.
•• tl» · NAMES OP LODGES. .. tbt NAMES OF LODGES.
Roll. Roll.
16. Torphichen Lodge at 235· Denny and Loanhead
Bathgate 244· Hopetoun Lodge, Bath..
19. Falkirk gate
Linlithgow 247· Lennox Kilwinning,
32. Stirling Campsie
62. Maddiston 249· Operative Lodge, Fal-
83. Alloa kirk
90. Pythagorick Lodge, Bor- 261. Caledonian StJohn, R.
rowstounness A. Campsie
93• Stirling Royal Arch 264. St Andrew's, Cumber-
J 38. Carron Lodge nauld
ARGYLESHIRE AND THE ISLES.
Colonel Campbell, jounger ofShawjield, P. G. M.
No. . No.
on tl» NAMES OF LODGES. "" tbt NAMES OF LODGES
R~. Roll.
56. Inveraray St Brook's, Rothsay .
65. Campbeltown 258. Argyleshlre Military.St
1 H• St Kilda at Portree John
186. StJohn's, Campbeltown· 262. St Stephen's, Portsoy
242. Commercial Lodge,Obal)
PJi:R.TH:SHilUt.
Digitized by Google
.334 .APPINDIX IV•
P E R T H S H I R E.
Sir'P. Murray, Bart. ofOcburtyre, P. c. M.
N•.
• llw NAMEB,Ol LODGES.
RJI.
J :z. Dumblane
17. Dunkeld
46. Crielf'
50. Auchterarder
85. Moncur
88. St Andrew's, Perth
131. Cnpar of Angus
133• _
Lindores Lodge, New-
burgh
N•.
• tJ. NAMB.S OP LODGES.
Roll.
158. Perth Royal Arch
181. StJohn's, Blairgo,t""fie
:ao1. Operative Lodge, Dun-
keld
230. StJames's, Downe
233• Lodge of Dunning
256. StJohn's Lodge, Mu.
thell
Scoon Lodge
A N G U S- S H I R E.
The Honourahle William Ramsay Maule, P. c. M.
N•. N•.
., tk NAMES OF LODGES. ., tbe NAMES OF LODGES.
RJJ. Roll.
J8. Montrose Kilwinning 127. St Vigian's, Arbroath
33· Bervie 134· St Peter's, Montrose
StThomas, Arbroath 151. John's-Haven StJohn
s:z. OperativeLodge,Dundee r6:z. StJames's, Brichen
54• Ancient Lodge, Dundee r8o. St Laurence, Laurence·
79· St Ninian's, Brichen kirk
96. St David's Lodge, Dun- 21~. Thistle Operative
dee Lodge, Dundee
J 14. Forfar Kilwinning 246. Montrose K.ilwinning
..•6. Glamm.is Incorporated Lodge
A II E R DEE N SHIll Jt,
' .
a
APPENDIX IV. 335
•
A B E R D E E N S H I R E.
Toe Right Hon. the Earl ofAhoyne, r. o. M.
N•.
~" lhe NAMES OF LODGES.
Roll.
39·· Aberdeen
4 r. Keith Ledge, Peterhead
66. St Maucbar
78. Stonehaven
116. St Nicholas, Aberdeen
.
14"· St Andrew's, Aberdeen
J89. St ~uke•,, Gilcolmston
N.. \
•• lht NAMES OF LODGE&
Roll.
zoo. Operative Lodge, Aber-
deen
2.9s~ St. Anthony, Inverury
2l9- Old A.berdeea Lqdge
2.23. StJames's Lodge, Aber-
deen
2.54- St George's Lodge,
· Aberdeen
I N"V E R N E SS, R 0 S S, AND ELGIN,
James.Brod.:e of Brodie, Esq. P. G. M.
N••
,. tiN NAMES OF LODGES.
Rail.
9• Old Lodge, Inverness
3t. St Andrew's Lodge, In-
verness
38. St John's Oper. Lodge,
Forres
47· Fort William
49· Kilmolymoack
57· Cumberland Kilwinning
· Invemc'ie
No•
., tiN NAMES OF LODGES.
Roll.
67. Dyke
1oo Fort George
JJ 5. Fo~t George,..Atderse~
Point
190.,St Lawrence, Forres
196. Trinity Lodge, Elgin
257· Rothes Lodge
259· Operative Clacnacudden
Lodge, Inverness
ORKSEt'
--~--~-
· APPENDIX IV.
ORKNEY AND CAITHNESS.
Sir Geo..Stewart Mackenzie.ofCouJ, Bart. P. c. M.
N-. No.
.,. IN NAMES OF LODGES. "' tiH NAMES OF LODGEIL
R,/1. RJJ. '
44· Kirkwall 176. Robertson's Lodge,
45· Thurso StJohn Cromarty
104. St Duthus atTain 237· St Paul's, Kirkwall
113. Morton'sLodge,Lcnridt. 252. St Fergus's, Wick
-'35• Fortrote Lodge, Stom-
away
B A N F F S H I R E..
Tbe Marquis of Huntly, P. G. M•
.W•• No.
• IN NAMES OF LODGES. •• tk NAMES OF LODGES.
RJJ. R~
6o. Banff Lodge 250. St James's Operative
72. Huntly Lodge, Keith
So. Forbesl.odge,Rosehearty 262. St Stephen's, Portsoy
120. Operative Lodge, Banff 263. Solomon's Lodge, Fn.
:to6. Lodge of M'Duff · 5erburgh
SCOTISH LODGES IN FRANCE.
Lewis Clave/, Esq. Roum. P. G. M.
BERMUDA ISLES.
John llfaclachlan, Esq. f, G. M.
APPENDIX.
. o,9,t,zedbyGoogle · _ J
---~ - _..., ..'
APPENDIX,
No. V.
L I S T
OF
LODGES
HOLDING OF THE ORAND LODGE OF SCOTLAND•
.Edinburgh Mary's Chapel
Canongate Kilwinning
Glasgow Kilwinning
Canon~ate and Leith
01..1 K.ilwinning, Inverness
Hamilton
Journeymen Masons
Dumblane
Dalkeitb
Maybole
Gr~enock Kilwinnin~
Torphicben Kilwinnmg,
Bathgate
Dunkeld
Montror.e Kilwinning
Falkirk
LinIithgow
Dumbarton Kilwinning
Cupar of Fife StJohn
Lesmahagoe
Old Lodge, Lanark
Kilmarnock
Dunse
Old Lodge, Peebles
St Andrew's
Dunfermline
Glas$ow St Mungo
K:rkmtillocb
ltilsytb
St Andrew's, Inverness
Stirling
Bervie
Coltness
Falkland StJohn
Selk.irk
St David's, Edinburgh
StJohn's Operative Lodge,
Forres
Aberdeen
Keith Lodge, Peterhead
St Cuthbert's, Kirkcudbright
Kirkwall
St Thomas, Arbroath
Tburso StJohn
Crieff
Fort William
St Luke
·Kilmolymoack
Aucbterarder
Dysart
Operative, Dundee
Edinburgh St Andrew's
Ancient Lodge, Dundee
Cumberland Kilwinning
Peebles
lnverary
Cumberland Kllwinning
Inverness
U u Duko
Digitized by Google
331 APP.l.NDIX 'f'.
,
Duke of Norfolk's r.;,dgc Scots Lodge of St Andrew,
Banff Jamaica
Dumfries Muuelburgh Kilwinning
Maddiston St Duthus at Tain
Welsh Fuzi1iers St Andrew's, Crail
Thistle, Edinburgh Duke of York's Lodge
Campbelto\;'1'11 Ceres
St Mauchar's StGeorge, 3ut Regr. of Foot -
Dyke Kirknewton and Ratho
Kelso Irvine Navigation Lodge
Glasgow Montrose Thistle Lodge, Glasgow
lnverkeithing New Monkland, Montrose
Huntly Mortoc's Lodge, Letwick
Whitt'• Lodge, 32d Regt. Forfar Kilwinning
Thistfe Lodge, Dumfries Elgin's Lodge, Leven
St Mich~el's, Dumfries Fort George, Ardeneer Point
Argyle's Lodge, Glasgow St Nicholas, Aberdeen
Royal Arch; Glasgow StJohn's, Norfolk, Virginia
Stonehaven St Leonard's, Kinghorn
St Ninian's, Brechin St Ayle's, Anstruther
Forbes Lodge, Rosehearty Operative Lodge, Banff
St Andrew's, &ston Union, General Majoribanks'
Blandford Lodge, Vrrginia Regiment
Alloa .St Bernard's Kilwinning
St Abb's Royal .Arch, Edinburgh
Moncur St James, Edinburgh
Kirkcaldy Wigton Kilwinning
Thistle & Ro~e, Glasgow Glammis
St Andrew's, Perth St Ma~dalene, Lochmaben
Castle of Dunbar St Vig1an's, Arbroath
Pythagoric Lodge, Borrow- St Mark's, Glasgow
stounness · Union and Crown, Glasgow
St Regulus, Cupar of Fife Jedburgh Lodge
Prince of Wales Lodge ftom Cupar of Angus
Edinburgh Moriah Lodge, 22d Reg1•
Stirling Royal Arch Lindores, Newburgh
Lanark Kilwinning Eskdale Kilwinning, I.ang-
St Columba's Lodge holm
St David's, Dundee Fortrose Lodge, Stomaway
Hooker StJohn, 17th Regr. St Mamock's Lodge~ Kil-
Foot mamock
Union Kilwinning, South Ca- Royal Welsh Fuziliers
rolina Carron Lodge
Annan St Andrew's Nithsdale St Paul's
Fort George St Andrew's, Aberdeen
King-Geor~e III. 56th Re&1• Hawick
StJohn's
Dig1tizecl by~~~ ,.. • p ~
APP~IX V. 33f
StJohn's, Fuhenow StJohn's, Blairgowrie, C.
Grant's, East Florida Angus
St David's, Glugow Operative Lodge, Ayr
St Mungo lloyal Arch, St .A,ndrew's, Cree Bridge
Glugow Operative Lodge, Dumfries
Cambuslang Royal Arch St Andrew's, Pittenweem
United Lodge, 4th ltegimmt StJohn's Lodge, Campbel-
ofFoot town
New Edi.nburgh K.ilwi.nniog Stratbaven Kilwi.nniog
Rutherglen Royal Arch Q.ueeo's, or 7th Regiment of
Partick St Mary Dragoons ·
St Andrew's, St Christopher St Luke's, Gilcolmston,Aber-
John's-Haven StJohn deen
Lamahagoe StLawrence, Forres
St Peter's, Montrose Paisley Royal Arch
St Kilda at Portree St Stephen's, Edinburgh
St Patrick's Royal Areb, 43d Renfrew Prince of Wales
Regiment Calder Argyle by Glasgow
Auchtermuchty St Cyre Sanqulaar Kilwinning
Perth Royal Arch Trinity Lodge, Elgin
St Andrew's Royal Arch, Irvine St Andrew's
Scot! Greys St MagnusLodge,Gottenburg
Hartlell Lodge, Moffat OperatiYe Lodge, Aberdeen
De la Parfaite Union de Na- Edinburgh Defensive Band
mur · Operative Lodge, Dunk.eld
Oswald of Dunniekier's LodgeRoyal Arch, Pollocktltaws
StJames's, Brechin Union Lodge, Dumfries
Ayr KilwiAni.nJ St Anthony, Inverury
Hamilton Kihnnning Lodge of M•Duff
StJames's New Town of Ayr Imperial Scots Lodge, St
St Andrew, Kilmarnock Petersburgh
Tbi.stle Lodge, Stewarton St Barchan's at Kilbarchan
Unity Lodge, 17th Regiment StJohn's, Beith
of Foot Thistle Operative Lodge,
Shewelston StJohn, Glasgow Dundee
Paisley St Merrion's Royal Arch Union, 3d Regi-
Gi.rvan St Andrew's ' ment Dragoons
Galston St Paul's Kilmar- Roman Eagle, Edinburgh
nock Muniesburgh Kilsyth
St Luke's, Lauder St Stephen's Gatehouse of
Tatbolton St David's Fleet
StJames's, Paisley St.John'~, New Abbey, Durn-
Robertson's Lodge, Cromarty fries
St John's, Philadelphia Union Lodge, Carlisle
St James's Tarbolton Union, St Christophers
Dumfries St Andrew's Caledonian Lodge, Edinbilrgh
St Laurence, Laurcnc:e-kirk Old Aberdeen Lodge
ltoyal
Digitized by Google
540 APPENDIX V.
Royal Arch, Air
Airdrie StJohn
Biggar Free Operatives
StJames's, Aberdeen
Thistle and Rose SteveniOtl
Pythaf{oric Lodge St' John,
Antigua
La Douce Harmonie
La Ardente Amiti~
Faithful Friends, de !'Orient
de Marseilles.
· Leven St John, Dumbarton
StJames's, Downe
St Bride's, Kirkcaldy
Largs StJohn
Dunning
Greenock St John
Denny and Loanhead
Phcenician Lodge, Leith
St Paul's, Kirkwall
Old Monkland StJames's
Glasgow St Patrick's
St Mungo's Mauchline
Mount Oliver's, St Christo-
phen
Commercial Lodge, Oban
St Andrew's, Jedburgh
St Brook.'s, Rothsay
Hopetoun's Lodge, Bathgate
Union Lodge, Newton-
Douglas
Montrose Kilwinning lncor.
porated
Lennox Kilwinning at
Campsie
'St Thomas, Whitbom
Operative Lodge, Falltirk
StJames's Operative Lodge.
Keith
StJohn's Carluke
St Fergus' Lodge, WICk
StJohn's, Cas·.Je Douglas
St George, Aberdeen
St Ruth's, Ruthwell
StJohn's, Muthell
Rothes Lodge
Argyleshire Military St Jolm
Operative Clacnacudden
Union Royal Arch, 4th Rcgr.
Dragoons
Caledonian St John Royal
Arch, Campsie
St Stephen's, Portsoy
SolomOil's Lodge, Fraserburgfl
Royal Arch, Maybole
St Andrew's, CumbemaWd
St George, Bermuda .
Scotia Lodge, Barbadoes
St Thomas Muiri.irk.
St Clemerit'l, Riccarton
Operative Lodge, A.irdrie
Ayr and Renfrew Mi1itaty
St Paul
Garthland St Winnoc:b
Stranraer Kilwinnin&
fINIS.
IJI
,
..
o;9,tizedbyGooole .~ b
- · ......
r..
..........
.
