{"name":"Letters On Various Subjects","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1804__southcott___letters_on_various_subjects.pdf","mytitle":"Letters On Various Subjects","mylang":"de"}
LETTERS
ON
V A R I O U S S U B J E C T S ,
FROM
MRS. JOANNA SOUTHCOTT TO MISS TOWNLEY.
LONDON: PRINTED BY S. ROUSSEAU, WOOD STREET, SPA FIELDS;
AND SOLD BY E. J. FIELD, NO. 9, HIGH STREET, ST. GILES'*
TWO DOORS PROM THE ANGEL INN; THE MISS EVELEIGHS, EXETER;
• AND W. RIMMONDS, GANDY LANE, EXETER. 1S04.
. TO THE „ ¥
RIGHT REV. THE LORD BISHOP OF LONDON.
M r Lord,
W hbi* I heard ofJoanna Southcott’s Prophecies,
last M ay, I thought it my duty to read them and
judge for myself, whether they corresponded with
the Scriptures; and was soon fully convinced, that
her Communications could only come from a God,
as her Writings clearly explain the Mysteries in the
Bible, that were locked up in the Bosom of the F a­
t h e r , till the latter days, and were then to be re­
vealed by the help-mate promised in the Creation :
our Saviour speaking through the Woman, to claim
the Promise given after the Fall, that the Seed of
the Woman should bruise the Serpent’s Head. On
the 20th of last April, Joanna came to me in Lon­
don, and during her stay with me, wrote and publish­
ed a Book, which I shall desire a Friend to send to
your Lordship, that you may see the dreadful threa-
tenings pronounced against ministers for not search­
ing into the truth of her Mission; and that I may be
clear from the Blood o f all Men. I shall send a Copy
of this Letter, and a Communication that will accom­
pany this Letter, to London, that three thousand
copies may be printed and sent to Bishops and Minis*
ters; as it would be fatal for ipe, if I concealed the
knowledge of the truths contained in the Commuai-
Digitized by Google
cation. Myself and Maid, being, both strong Be­
lievers, the Lord, through Joanna, ordered us to
come to her Brother, in Bristol, on the 16th o f this
mon'-h, for ends we should know hereafter. On m y
arrival, I found Mr. Southcott bad an infant Son,
who was born the gth of April, and called John, to
all appearance dying in convulsions. They told
the Child was suddenly seized with convulsion (its,
a little before one o’clock on Tuesday morning, and
the Child continued to have fits till half past three
o’clock on Friday afternoon, when it laid in peace till
after the clock struck five, when it expired in sleep.
I sent thes$ particulars to Joanna, and she immediately
^returned mean answer, tfhich is copied for your
Lordship's perusal; and, I think, after reading it,
your Lordship must be convinced, fatal would be
my end, if I concealed its contents front the world ;
and trusting the Lord will protect me, if lam obedi­
ent, I fear no mart> nor any ridicule I may meet with
from the yyorld-
I am Your Lordship’s humble Servant.
M a y t h e 2 2 d , 1804, J ane Tqwnlkt.
N o. Q, T r in ity S t r e e t , B r is to l.
( 5 )
P ear M iss Townley.
In consequence of your letter, informing me of
the death of my Brother’s Son, I was ordered to call
tntny remembrance the words that were said to me
in 1798, when I was first ordered to go to Bristol.
After the Rev. Mr. Pomeroy had desired they would
send tp me, to return to Exeter, and that he would
get the ministers forward tq search out tfie Truth,
irjy brother asked me, if I thoqght the Lord would
do any wondrous work when my writings were prov­
ed, to convince mankind the calling was from the
Lord ? To which I was answered, If he had a son,
$ e I*ord tyould dp wpndroys wprks. H jsw ifew fs
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
theft pregnant; but to my great disappolritmeht slie
bad a daughter; and so I was disappointed in
both *. But deeply was it Said to me, that my
Mother would hard a son,«before the wondrous
working d f the Lord took place. Now in answer
6f what you Say of the child’s death, 1 was an­
swered in the following manner, by the Spibit :
“ I shall ftoW.ansWer thee of the child’s death— thred
flays and part of the fourth he was irt convulsions*
which left him riiore than an hour before his death*
and he Was in peace at his death.--—Now I teli thee*
three yeafs the convulsions of this Land will last;
but a* thejf staid up with the child the third night,
expecting to see his end, but yet it lasted great part
of the fourth day— just So, £ noW'tell thee, the
fourth year must Begin from tins date befofe all sor­
rows will end in your land.' And know I told thee,
in May, 1802* it would be five year’s from that time,
before this would be a happy land. Now this is one
of the years for judgment to this land; in 1805
will be two years; in 1806 will be three years; but
as I told thee, in May* it must come to the seventh
year to bring it to May, so the child lived till the
fourth day, and died the fifth hour, after the turn of
the day in the month that I mentioned*•and in the
Very year1that I said the signs should be Set for judg­
ments.— Now if thou couldest remember the words
I said to thee in 1798, thou wouldest know I told
thee, thy brother should have, a Son, when the
Truths o f thy Writings were proved; and. now the
Very year Is come, that I say they shall be proved.
He hath a son that suffered convulsions for the nati­
on* three days and part of the fourth, and died in
the very month that I said should be a fatal May for
Man, if unbelief in them abounded; and now l tell
thee, and all mankind, the destiny of the child shall
fall on all, that now mock the Coming of the Lord.
* Tbit it, the birth o f a Son, and the rrovine the Truth o f her
Wiiu*t - .
A 2
Digitized by Google
( * )
Tbe .innocent child hath suffered to set the Type far
man ; therefore, I ordered that she should so nasdl|r
leave London, because that they might see the en d
o f the child, that standeth as a Type for your land.
But I know the unbelieving world will say, there is
nothing has happened to the child, but what is com -
mon to children. This 1 grant to be common; h u t
here is a thing that is not common, for thee to b e
informed, in 17Q8, of thy brother’s having a son,
when the wondrous events of thy Prophecies hasten­
ed o n ; and now in tbe 1804, when I have told thee
the events of thy Prophecies shall hasten on, for th y
brother to have a son bom in the very month I men­
tioned the shadow of dangers to begin, and to die in
convulsions, in the very month that I threatened a
fatal month for man. Now let the learned weigh the
whole to gether, how thy elder Brother’s Son, of the
same name, that had been set as a Type for thee,
’ was put in print; and now when all the Signs of the
nation were put in print, the Signs of the years,
with the Rolling Stone, to roll on from year to year,
_
three years after thou heardest the. noise at mid­
night ; and at midnight the child was taken ill, near
(he hour thou heardest the noise, and then went on
from day to day, three days after the noise was heard
of the child’s first alarm; but did not live through.
the fourth day, but slept in peace: and so yobr land
shall rest, when all that mock the Coming of tbe
Lord are laid in the silent grave like him ; for ! have
already told thee, and I now tell thee again, I will
not spare horse nor rider, but will cut them off, as
I cut off the child; for here the innocent child suf­
fered to set the Sign for the guilty world ; but as his
last hour was in peace without convulsions, so is his
soul in peace and rest, where no pain can come near
him, in a world of glory. Ana this will be' the
happy end of all true believers, that die before the sor­
rows are over; but as the clouds gathered in, and the
heavens were filled with clouds after the child’s death,
Digitized by ( g o o g l e
( * )
•o the clouds will ,follow the nation. Here I havp
,given them line upon line, .Warning upon warn- .
in g ,' sign .upon sign. And all these Signs and
Warnings agree in one. Now let the learned weigh
the whole together, and See if this working is com­
mon, or could be brought round by any wisdom
but the wisdom o f a God. I tell them n o ! they
that deny its being from the Lord, must deny the
knowledge of a God, the power of a God, and the
wisdom of a God, and give all knowledge and
E
ower to ,the devil; and if men rob me thus of my
onour, I will rob them of their happiness. Anfl
this must be sent to all the clergy., to awaken them
out of their sleep, and let them see how all these
things have come, one;after the other, to make the
Signs clear before them.**— Now you see how the
death of my brother's son is perfect like the warn­
ing, given me at midnight, with the Rolling Stone,
that rolled three, staifs' down, at Christmas. O h !
how doth the Lord condescend to give sign upon
sign, and warning upon warning, to prove his call­
ing d ’
ear to man; and yet they are blind and will
not see. But we most he dear from the blood o f
all men, and I am ordered to write to yon, for you
to warn the bishops and the clergy, o f the fatal
judgments pronounced on them, if they are now
careless, and do not search into every truth, to warn
their flock of approaching dangers, or the blood of
the nation will be on their heads, if the people die
in their sins, and the shepherds do not warn them to
prepare for the Coming of the Lord. But if you
warn not the shepherds, the sin will be on yoijr
head, and then your sin will be the greatest, as you
will sin through light and knowledge, being con­
vinced the calling is of G od;'and this duty is re­
quired of you to be a faithful labourer in the Lord’s
vineyard. So I trust, my dear Miss Townley, know-,
ing in whom you have believed, and weighing the
whole together, you will not fear the ridicule of the
Digitized by Google
todrld for the sake, of our de^ar Redeemer, who .sjif*
fered so much ridiciiljefrom man f<
p
r our sakes, ana
laid down his life to redeem us from the Fall,, as*you
know is so clearly explained to me in my writings.
But here t musf conclude with' my. c&rnest pray­
ers for you, thiat. the Lord will strengthen you
in the great Work tie hath commanded you to do.
M ay the Lord'pour down .every blessing on your
head, is the earnest prayer, of your sincere friend and
fellow labourer in the Lord's vineyard. I conclude
with my kindest Christian love to you, and please to
femeniber the same to your servant.
I am, with the greatest Respect,
‘Your sincere Friend and humble Servant,
J o a n n a S o u t h c o t t ..
Tuesday) May 22, 1804.
A little after eleven o'clock. Miss T(.vanity and k ef
servant went to the funeral-of the child, and a vio­
lent trembling came over- her when she arrived dt the
churchyard. They w ere disappointed in sending these -
letters, fo r the post goes out at four, and they thought
not tillfiv e.—The letters being returned, ga ve them
much pain and confusion, and they w ere blaming them­
selves that they were not soon enough' fo r the post,
when thefollow ing communication was given to Joanna i
D e a r M i s s T o w n l e t ,
Here .1 send you the Communication about the
burial of the child,- and the returning of the letters.
•* Now from thii shadow I shall answer here:
To see these letters all turn'd back again,
It is a shadow I shall here explain.
1 khow confusioh in you all Was plac'd;
And well 1 know the pondering m thy breast.
How from the shadow,that did here appear
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
( / )
Thou judg’st the substance must ihe same come here j
And so thy letters would coqae back the same %
This is the pondering in thy heart that came j
But now 1 tell thee* this is not the Sign,
This is a shadow deep unto mankind—
{low that thy letters they turn'd backat first.
And now to them they're all turn'd back at last, '
*W ith ihore confusion they thy lines will bear, .
Than ever in your hearts there could appear;
Because their letters now turn'd back they11 see,
And eager wish they'd act'd a different way;
As they did wish they had more hasty been.
They'll blame themselves, as these this day havedoof:
For on themselves will many cast the blame—
As now these writers have this day begun;
And so they’ll say they'll hasten now their speed.
A different way 1 say they’ll now proceed ;
Therefore to thevo the type, l order'd thee
To send the letters to thmppst this day;
But well 1 knew, th^t they would^all come b*ck;
And so confusion in you ^11 did break:
And so confusion in mankind will be,
Their words and letters all turud back to see;
How all in public pi mt do now appear—
And some like Townley will begin to Fear
Tb*t something wrong by them issorely done,
As now they'll see they cannot stop thy hand.
Bi|t from this shadow now let Shatp take care, '
And hasty to thp printer now repair,
To have the letter printed as 'tjssent
And let them boldly, stand the Woman’s friend;
For, by thdse letters now turn'd back this day,
It is too late for any man to say,
This is a calling never come from Heaven;
They'Ufin d the Lord hath oil these warnings given, ' ’
Then now to come against thee 'tis tpo late—
1 plainly tell them that tlje door is shut,
Because thou know'st the book Before is gone;
Then sure their letters must turn back agahw
If now against thee they would but appear—•
They’ll come too late to find admittance here
Before fhe whole is open to their view.
Tfip Type's tp man, and they uili find it true;
So of tne shadow thou hast nought to fear,
But on the morrow send the letters there;
fo r that's the day appointed for the child,
And that's the day the learned shall be foil’di
Because that 1, in my appointed time,
po all my wprk, and am not like mankind, . .
To change decrees tliat I did make at first:
In my appointed time all things shall burst
So on the day appointed for the child f
• That is, the clergy wopld send the letters bfick. %
| The child was buried the dpy before, instead ofthe day fixed upop.
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
9enA every letter, and they’ll see they’re foil'd;
For all the letters they turn'd back too soon;
Because i tell thee they judg'd me like man*
To alter the decrees that 1cud make,
And so their letters they did all turn back."
(Signed,) Joanna S o u t h c o t t .
May 2 3 , 1 8 0 4 .
Now, to tell the sense o f this, the child was ap-
fointed to be buried this day, Wednesday, the 23rd, put
the nurse thought it would not keek, and the letters w ere
ordered to be sent at the child's vurial; so, as the fa~
ther had altered his pi m, the letters w ere sent the
same day and turned back, being too late fo r the p est,
Now I shall g iv e you part of the meaning o f the let­
ters bang sent, from the child’s death.
■ D e a r M i s s T o w n l b y ,
I now send you the words given to me by the
Spirit, about the burial:
“ I shall tell thee the shadow of the child—
They had it buried sooner than they proposed, fear-,
ing a putrefaction in the child that it would not
keep. Now I tell thee, here is the shadow for thee :
sooner than thou mayest expect, thy trial will come
on, as men will fear the putrefaction ip thee.-—If it
be from a disorder in thy head, they will say it is
time to put a stop to i t ; but if it be of God they
will say, it is time to fear what judgments are com­
ing on man. Now I shall come to another type and
shadow: remember when thy writings were proved,
I ordered them first to be buried in thfc cave, or
the. dark regions like a grave, as a type of the sha­
dow of death : soon after that, the wind rose high.—
Notf after the child was put in the grave, see how
hard the rain came, and the heavens werecovered
Digitized by Google
W ith blackness: and now they are writing to warn
th e bishops and clergy.—
«
4
4Here is a type stands deep for all:
Thisfun eral ’will bring on the call oV°4
To make the shepherds to appear-^
Therefore the shadow I plac'd there
To have the likeness at the first
But now the substance it is plac'd:
A perfect funeral now is come;
And so the substance will go on
To have thv Trial to appear—
They’ll find these shadows first were there:
But now the substance it is come.
And every substance will be known.
In perfect likeness to appear:
They’ll find the substance now is near;
For all as shadows I plac’d first,
But now the substance 1 place last,
To bring thy awful trial on—
And Townley’s tiembling will be known,
That strong in thee it will appear,
As in thy stead I’ve now plac'd her,
And ib thy stead she bold may stand—
The heavens with blackness now command#
And now mv blackness will appear,
If men don't hasty waken here,
As she so early did awake, - •
I say, my clouds on them shall break;
Because, frbm shadows all shall see,
Such things were ne'er brought round by thee*
To place the shadows at the first, ~
That like a fiineyal this should bursta
And now the funeral doth appear,
From innocence no sin was here
Ever committed by the child—■
And here the learned men are foil’d ; k
As 1 compared with my own:
Then here the thild must sure be known .
„ In innocence, I say, to die—
And mark the worcls were said to thee,
W hen that the shadow did appear,
Thou-know’st, the child I told thee there:
To shew my Birth, the child must come;
And so my Death a shadow then.
But now the shadow's in the child,
To'shew my death, to reconcile
The world to God—‘like him I died
In strong convulsions then for man.
t .0 )
* That is, the writings put ina vaultat Paddington, ashadow then
•f the burial now.
B
Digitized by Google
The Garden first you mast discern,
' W hat Agonies I then did bear!
And how the midnight hour drew near*
As my Convulsions were within.—
, My feelings were unknown to Men
What for their sakes 1 then did bear*
As well I knew my chosen were
To suffer then the like for Me—
And then the Jews I kne* were cast,
To prove the mysteries at the last,
That dead to knowledge man was come.
As I at first pronobnced him;
And so their knowledge it was dead;
And by their death my Blood was shed;
Because that me they did not know,
From all the wofiders I did show,
As never could be work’d by man.
And nowin spirit Lam come
To work by Wisdom now the same,
And man knows not from whence it came
To see these mysteries so brought round;
They cannot tell from whence the sound.
Before some others doappear
To make these mysteries out more clear;
And then they'll own their knowledge dead
To every tiling before them laid;
That they did never understand
It was a Work by my Command;
Because theyjudg’d I could notgo
To stoop to man in things so low.
From types and shadows to appear
In language low, no man could clear,
To see the depth, how all is plac'd.
You ne'er discern’d, ye fallen rage,
How 1 from shadows plac'd all first.
Nor how the likeness it did burst
The type of Isaac plac’d before,
And so my death it did appear.
And then the Brazen Serpent see;
For as I say they look'd on me,
Nought but a Serpent to appear.
As from the Jews, theyjudg'd me there.
So from these shadows none-do see
How deep they’re plac'd as types of me ;
And let my Gospel to appear;
From Parables 1 told them there,
How I had liken’d every thing.
* ' Now all to your remembrance bring,
Then all these shadow’s you’d see clear
Doth with my Bibte all compare.
From types and shadows I began,
From types I now shall make an end;
So from this type I now do say*,
Here is a shadow plac’d this day,
* Child's convulsions, death, and burial.
( 10 )
Digitized by Google
( n )
How all the substance will appear,.
For the death warrant's hastening here:
Unto the shepherds this will be, *
And their convulsions you will see
To be much greater than the child's ;
For now the learned will be foil'd
For here’s a mystery none do see,
How the Tenth Year these things must be,
To have thy letters blaz’d abroad,
A way that man ne'er understood;
But judg’d tbe letters sent before •
Did in like manner so appear;
But then thy letter coula not be,
Thou publish'd then the mind ofM f
In public letters for to send;
But now 1 tell thee, by thyfrien d
Thv letter is publish’d a11 abroad:
And all the others will be know'd
To fly abroad to man the safne;
For here’s the letters I did namef,
That I should make to fly abroad;
And now their conduct will be know’d*
For different roads they now will take.
Until they find the truth to break. %
But from what shadows you don’t discern
The way or manner 1 to Vou do warn;
It was a private letter blaz'd abroad,
When in November every truth was know’d :
And now to make the likeness all agree,
It is the private letter I tell thee,
That by the public now must fly abroad;
For like the shadow's must the truth be know’d ;
For so the substance in the end must burst,-*-
.You ne’er discern’d the manner ofthe first,
Nor how' the shadow it did first appear:
When Pomeroy read his name in public there,
That thou didst put in print by my Command,
J3ut now the substance all may understand.” i/Y•/f-
' t ' N
(signed,) J oanna Southcott.
Dear M iss T qwnlbt, May 23d,1804.
In answer to the Letters being returned, you say,
dieday the child was buried, and the Letters sefit the
J f r s
• Parliament Letters.
t See page 82 of Joanna’s Six Books o f Prophecies.
B 2
Digitized by Google
day he was designed to be buried, I was answered in
the following manner:
“ As this day was designed for the child’s funeral,
and this day the letters are sent, it will be for their fu­
nerals if thel.ving do not lay it to heart. But as the
child was buried die day before, and the letters did not
go that day, if they come forward like the letters, the
funeral is gone before them ; and by the child’s death
they may have life. If they do as these have done,
to improve their timefor the future, and be strict to
obey my Commands; then I shall change my Threa-
tenings into Blessings, as thy Brother changed his
funeral; and my sunshine shall rise upon them. If
they now turn unto m e , I will now turn unto them.
And pow I will tell thee why I have made thee a pri­
soner ; Because I know the weakness of thy nature,
mind, and heart. I put thee to the trial by Pome­
roy, and saw the weakness of thy heart: thou hadst
no fortitude to withstand one man, but sjgned thy
name, to please him, to what he never said but once,;
apd that was by putting his name in print, which he
said,was from the devil; but he never said thy wri­
tings were *. But as he complained to thee, thou hadst
no fortitude to dispute with him. Therefore, now I
have made thee a prisoner, to see no one before it is
disputed by those that have more strength and forti­
tude than thou hast g o t; and not to give up to any
before they give their strong reasons, why they
judge thy prophecies come from the~£>evil; and how
they can prove such types and shadows were first pla­
ced by him; and how the substance came in such
manner, in the tenth year, wherein thou sawest the
light of the candles; and how thy Brother should have
a Son in that very year, that had nought but daugh­
ters before : but he said he had a Son dead-born be­
fore .the time. And now I tell thee, like dead-bom
( I* )
f See page 76 of the Second Book of Letters,
Digitized by L j O O Q i e
( 13 )' ■ 2/A s
children, before the time, all have been j but now
the living children sh ill appear.— Here thy heart
beginneth to ponder : W ill the living children die,
like the child ? To. this I answer: the living chil­
dren, that are to die before mv Kingdom is establish-,
ed on this Earth, shall die as innocent as the child
did; for I will not impute any more sin to them than
I imputed to the ch Id, that had committed no sin.
Butas die child’s name shall stand for ever in remem­
brance, and dying in convulsions is left on record,
toshall their names for ever stand, in honour to
them; and their virtues be recorded, like the child’s
convulsions, for the pains they have taken to bring
ina guilty land. So here I have compared my living
children to the dying child, if they die before my
Kingdom is established. But, as the other was
living, all jvill not die before the time ; but the child,
that standeth as a type I compared of my Death,
must die before the time, to shew the shadow of thy
Writings, which I ordered as a sign to put as in the
grave * ; and so. by the child’s death, 1 ordered my
Shepherds to be warned, to bring them forth by the
death of the child. Now let the learned answer, how
Satan should place the writings first as a shadow o f
death, and how death should come to thy Brother’s
Son in the tenth year of the Vision -f*, and in the
monthof May to die in convulsions ; a month that I
threatened a fatal month for man ? Let these things be
answered by the learned, before I permit thee to ap­
pear : for well I know thy weakness ; and as Satap
cannot overcome thee in any form he can come him­
self, I know he will try, as an angel of light, to
come in man. Therefore I will, not leave thee to.
Man, as Adam left Eve to the Serpent. Thou hast
tnsted to my protection, and my protection' thou
shalt have : for I myself have mad: thee a prisoner;
• A vault under the High House at Paddington,
t See page 17 of the first six Books of Prophecies, 1794.
Digitized by Google
/
and it would be fatal for any man to seek to find th e e
out, to break my prison doors, before they h a v e
brought thee to a fair Trial, then.thou shalt appear ;
and as my guardian angels have guarded and kept th ee
from all the arts and power of hell, now let m y
friends, brothers, mother, and sister, keep thee from
all the arts and power of men ; for there will Satan
try to work, to prevent the truth from being tried
and proved; as he knoweth, if the truth is tried and
proved, they will prove the calling from the Lord ;
apd then m y k in g d o m must come in—
( 1 4 )
As men's desire will daily come
To wish my Kingdom to appear ;
And then he knows I’ll bring it here,
And then his Kingdom it must fall.
And now 1 tell you one and all,
That men's desire must first appear
Before I bring my Kingdom here;
And their desires I soon shall know
When I have prov'd my writings true ;
Because thy writings are from me,
That every soul shall know and see;
fo r so I'll prove them in the end.
But first with man I shall contend.
To see what in them all do lye,
And then they’ll find I’m come in the*,
So strong in power lor to appear.
That all shall know their Lord i? here,
That in the end 1 said should come;
In marvellous things appear to man;
And so mankind may marvel here
The way that I ip thee appear.
To keep thee secret at tne first,
Before men’s judgment it is cast;
And then in wonders to appear,
The sacred Truth then in all to clear.—
And this to Townley thou must send,
And tell her, as a faithful friend,
W here thou residest no man must know,
Before their judgment they do shew, .
To tell from whence thy writings came,
And then they’ll surely know my Name,
Now let Townley answer all that enquire for thee,
the Lord has commanded her not to te ll; for she
will not tell them ; and it is fruitless for the Serpent
to come in man to her, and tell her that it is the
4 k
Digitized by L , o o Q l e
( 15 )
Lortl's command to conceal thee. She must tell them,
they must convince her, from strong arguments and
just reasons, how this is all brought round by the
Devil, before she will disobey the'command of the
Lord.”
Here, my dear Miss Townley, you see what a
strict charge is given to you, not to discover
my abode ; neither must you let my friends in Lon­
don know what place you have taken for me, or
where my abode is. I am very comfortable, and
hope to have the happiness of seeing you soon. I am
sure of the pleasure of seeing Underwood every day,
to bring me all the news, and to receive the direc­
tions. I have another communication to write you
to-morrow; but you know I must have my secretary.
The Lord bless you, and strengthen you to stand the
fiery trial with men. The people in this house are
very quiet and civil. Accept my kind love; and am
yours sincerely in heart and mind.
(Signed,) J o a n n a S o u t h c o t t .
Another communication added, May 24th, morning,
in answer to the wind and rain that came on soon after
the Utters w ere gone out o f town by the mail; and con­
veyed in the same letter.
“ As the wind and rain arose when the coach was
carrying the warning to mankind, and the cup is now
held out to man, they may drink it which way they
will: for Townley hath wisely discerned, to weigh
the past with the present. Therefore I told thee at
Leeds, that were she called forward to give account,
of her faith, she could give a clearer judgment than
man ; because she hath discerned what is fulfilled,
and what is not. Therefore I have chosen her to
warn the shepherds; and if they take not the warn-
Digitized by Google
ing, they shall fiiid the floods of sorrow to come upon
them. But how could I strike before I warn ? I
warned the Parliament; and they refused the warn­
ing, and the sword of war followed; but now is come
the second watning, from the woman’s hand to the
.shepherds. Therefore I compared her to my mother,
as she is daily seeking to support my honour and
great N am e: for they that honour thy writings,
honour m e that gave them ; for all shall know they
are from me the l i v i n g L o b d . S o they that ho­
nour m e , I will honour; and they that despise m b ,
shall be lightly esteemed ; for they that despise thy
writings must despise the Spirit, and do despite to
the Spirit of God. Then they shall find I will do
despite unto them : but how can 1 strike before I
' Warn ? I tell thee, no 1 The Warning must first go
out in the world before I strike ; and the sooner the
warning is given, the sooner will my hand appear;
for my hand shall follow the warning, as the rain and'
.wind followed the letters in their journey. So there
is no.time for trifling now— The King’s business re-
quireth haste ; and as they wish to have it come in
haste, in haste let them proceed with the warning,
and my hand shall be close after. Therefore I said
the man and woman should join together : and now
let my brethren join as in one family in the Lord,
with my mother and sister, to warn my shepherds :
they that are not my shepherds will not regard the
warning,—
For now my shenherds I shall try,
To see what m thorn all doth lie;
And if no milk in them is found,
Then they mav tremble at the sound:
For now like Woolland I’ll go on ;
To try my flock I now am come;
For all are shadows plac’d before,
But now the substance shall appear:
Because the substance is begun,
1 tell thee, from thy brother's son :
And so the substance shall abound,
The truth in all shall now be found.
I know thy writings, how they stand*
And every truththey shall comjnand;
( i6 )
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
( it 1
Because 1 said I'd make all clear
Before that i had ended heie.
Add foil'd the wisdooi of mankind:
Now I shatl tell you the meaning of Mr. Woolland }
ih 179&> the year the Bishop died, Mr. Woolland
had bought a flock of sheep; but Hot knowing whe­
ther they were with lamb dr not, he killed One for 4
tria l; and said if there was ho milk gathered in the
others, as there was no lamb in the one he killed, all
his flock Should go tb the butchers. It was then said
to me, the Lord would do as Woolland had done t
he would cut off one to try what was in the rest.
Bu| i f I find my shepherds dry,
And no true milk in them doth lid: ;
Then sure like Woolland 1'Jl go on,
Till all my flock btedead and gone.
Tor now the branch 1 will cut off
To make my vineyard spring$
But if I find 'tis not enough,
I'll surely cut your land.
This was in l fg 6 , when the Bishop’s death wat
put as a shadow; but £ow it is coming to the sub-*
stance. *
gravers on the fast day, may is, iso*,
I Shall give you the communication that is
given to me this day, the 24th of May, after you
lent me the Form of Prayer for the Fast Day. I was
ordered to call all things to my remembrance in
1796, in answer to the Prayers for the F a s t I
then ordered thee to write to Pomeroy, and in that
year to put in his hand of the Bishop’s death*. But
D e a r M i s s T o w n l e y r
* This toek place at the end « f theyear.
Q
Digitized by C j O O ^ I c
now I have ordered thee te warn the Bishops and the
Clergy in May ; and now in May the Fast is ; and
out of their own mouths will I condemn them all, if
they are p/eith^r hpt npr cold, but lukewarfn ; for,
the Letters were written to warn the Clergy before
the Fast came; therefore I ordered ope to be hastily
fent to the Bishop, and to have the Letters hastily-
printed. So if they are now lukewarm, they are con­
demned from the yery Scriptures they have placed.
' If they say they have wisdom and want nothing, then
I tell them they are blind and nakeej. I have coun­
selled them to buy of me true gold ; that they maybe
clothed, that the shame of their nakedness may not
r appear ; and to anoint their eyes with eye-salve that
they may see; for as many as I love I rebuke ; and
this Nation I have rebuked, as there are many in it
whom I love ; but let them not think the French
' are sinners above all men, because they have done
these things. I tell them nay, but unless they re­
pent they shall all likewise perish. Now let them
park- the Reason in Isaiah, the 38th chapter,— In
tho.se days was Hezekiah sick unto death, and a Sign
was given’hint from the Lord. Now let the learned
answer what the Sign was for ? Could I not have re­
stored him without giving him a Sign, and do the
thing I had promised him ? Could he not take m y
word without a bond ? Yet I gave a Sign to Heze-.
kiah.. And ^ojtv I have given Signs unto the Nation :
If they turn unto m e , as Hezekiah did, my threaten-
ings shall go backwards; and I will save this Nation,
that is condemned to die by judgments; but if they
will not lay it to. heart, as Hezekiah did, they shalf
fall by the Signs of the convulsions placed in the
Child. So here is the Sign set before them; and
the Signs of the Gospel are now come, from the
many false Christs that have appeared. Two false
Christs have written to thee; therefore I ordered
thee to keep their letters, to prove that false Christs
were come; and two others have told thee they
( 1 8 )
Digitized by G o o g l e
( ■ >
ifcere the Christa, and wanted thee 'to trust to fhem'
for Redemption.. Yet they confess1they never were
visited by the Spirit of Prophecy, or-hatl ahy pow—'
er given them of working of Miracles. So the Sign-
of false Christs hath appeared unto thee, as well as
the Signs of Tumults and War. But I should act like
men, to come to one part of the chapter and not go
through the whole. . For I tell thee, that chapter is
like thy writings.— The shadow fulfilled in the de­
struction of Jerusalem, and what followed after to
my disciples; but the end was not then;.for men
have stopped where I shall begin— When ye see Je­
rusalem compassed with arrtiies, know the desolation
is n ig h ; and that desolation followed Jerusalem.
But can man say the end followed then— to see me
come in a cloud with grdat P o w e k and G l o r y ? I
tell thee no— But now the time is at hand, that all
these things shall be fulfilled— and man’s Redemp­
tion draws nigh : For the Kingdom of G o d is nigh
at hand. But the fulfillment of the chapter * is as
much neglected by man, as they have proposed not
reading it through ; for I tell thee, men stop where
they ought to begin. Now I shall come to the 20th
verse o f the other Lesson-^— Relieve in the Lord your
God, so shall you be established ; btlieve his
Prophets so shall ye prosper. See the xxxviitn Psalm
the 9th verse to the ldth— Those that wait upon
the Lord shall inherit the earth; and the xlixth
Psalm at the 4th verse— I will incline mi'ne ear to
Parables. Now I tell thee, the very Chapters and
Psalms, which they have chosen, allude to the last
days. The Sign given to Hezekiahof the Sun’s go­
ing backward, is a Sign how all shall go back­
ward, when those that wait upon the Lord shall
inherit the earth. For those Signs were given
for the end. And now I shall speak from Parables:
• The xxxviiith of Isaiah,
t * Chrom
. xxthchapter,
cV
Digitized by L . o o Q l e
I hare compared all thy Writings to Parables; and
from the Bible are Parables; and 1 shall now com e
to Parables here, from the ppistlc— I have sent m y
9Ji£el unto thee—-
" ( 10 ) ■
To warn the Churches here—>
W hen the Creation first was laid.
My witness must appear,
W hat on the Serpent there was cast,
I say, the every blame.
And now’s the time it so must bursty
Not hot norvoid you came:
Wrbat Blasphemy was judg’d by ye ?
Then, how will you appear?
Out of my moutn I’ll spue you all 5
My honour l see here
You don’t regard that you have err'd,
But say she does bl^srheme
Against My Name; then now 111 shamp
Tnelegrned sons of men;
Because \our lcve 1 now will prove
Not hot nor cold to be.
For soon the cause, 1 know, you’4 prove^
If you had love for me :
So if you \ e not I'll tell your lot.
For I shall spue you all,
If sickly is you^ :ove fit ME,
To let my honour fall.
If you do sav that blasphemy
}s in this Woman here.
And never try to stopher hand,
To make it to appear;
Because to you, I’ll prove it true.
The words I shall allude.
The J ews they didnot so appear:
In fiery zeal they stood;
But worse than they you Gentiles be,
To judge she doth blaspheme,
Ana never come the ti uth to see,
in honour to my Name.
Then blind you be, I now tell yef
Yea, miserable and poor;
Because your hearts are gone frojn M
E—r
You judge your earthly store
Enrich you all; but now I call,
Your nakedness I-see;
How, void of grace, \ou now must fidl,
That have no love for me;
Then eye $aiyehere mpst now appear
To open all your eyes 5
Or else the ditch the blind may fear.
For I shall now chastize
Ifbit very land, where nowl’gn comf
Digitized by Google
k « >
In Sp ir it to appear,
For to give eye salve now to m e^
And bring my Gospel here—
For where you end I shall begin*
My Gospel to go through—
My K ingdom now is nigh at b&ndf
And all shall find it true.
•So now take care, I warn you here*
That ye may boldly stand;
When in tho clouds I do appear
For to redeem the Lands
From misery—mankind will see
I shall th^ lands redeem.
And that you may lift up your headf
My warnings plain are seen;
They do appear, I tell you her*
As shadows at the first;
Because the visions do appear
That in the end will burst.
So I’ll go on where man did name*.
If you pplieve your God
You must discern what there is penn’d,
My Gospel must be knowd,
That so must come, l tell thee plain,
Then judge my prophets true,
And tnen the victory you shall gain j
For as I then did do
!’ll do aga^ia, ye sons of meiv
f you like him appear;
J ehoshaphat is in my view*
Though man h^d ended here f
Mot to go through as he did d *
But you must go through all—
Or like the Gospel chosen by you,
I tell you this will falL
You must repent and now relent
That you stood out so long;
Or else, I say to thee this day*
Your ruin now will come;
Because 'tis you my angels warn’d,
1 say by my Command.
Then how, Oh ! England will'you stan4
For to protect your land,
If 1 appear to spue you here,
As lukewarm friends to me ?
Yourselves with it you must compare;
For now ! this tell thee :
That with the French you can’t compare—
For hot and cold they be:
Hot in the zeal of their pursuits;
And love to me quite cold.
Then tfris to England sure must he—*
T|ie mysteries Til uDloTdT
* See the Prayer read on the Fasf D^y, p. i \.
t Oaly part of the chapter was commanded be regd,
Digitized by Google
c « >
That this epistle doth allude, 1 '
And own the truth plac'd here; ■ • ■
For if mv K ingdom is at hand, - v
1 see they do not care: ^ - ■
And if my name thou dost blasphemer* t ’■
To ruin all my land, . r
There is not love enough *in man
For L od and Man to stand, .
In love appear to sde ail clear^
Their lukewarm hearts I see;
And if their hearts are frozen here,
Their ruin it will be;
For like the wind it now shall edme^, 1
They'll find my fury to go on—
If now they mock ME>bv their Fast’
They'll tind my anger for to burst.
They own my judgments do appeal*,
And for their sins I’ve smitten here ':
, 4 ? § Their gracious Sovereign Lord the King t '•*1
They own'd iny judgments in the thing;
Then let them know when it did begin,
That I at first did afflict their King,
And see my judgments to roll on.
From their oxen vords l now am come
To answer back, in ever)' line;
As they allow the judgments mine.
And this 1 told thee of before,
That in this manner should appear,
If men my anger did provoke—
I told thee there I'd bring the stroke,
And now they’ve own’d the stroke is com#! \'
From their own mouths I’ll now condemn,
I say, my shepherds every where—
If they deny my judgments here,
When they have warn’d them in the Fast,
From their own words I now shall burst;
Became l said the stroke was there
When first the news it did appear;
And said the papers thou must sealJ.
But now my mind I shall reveal:
Since men haveo\vn’d my words are true^
I'll bring all mysteries to thy view:
I meant to have them own it first.
And then the truth I meant should burst,
How I from shadows did begin,
And brought my judgments in the Spring;
In the same month they did appear
That in thy Book was printed thete:
• On Thursday afternoon the wind was tw y lriglf and roared like
thunder, when our friend was writing the Communication in answer
to the Prayers for the Fast.
t See p. 5, in the Prayer for ourSovereign, and in p. 25 of this book.
%Joanna wasoidered to seal up some newspaper*, and all the papers
to be laid by.
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
( AS )
And npw mankind have own'd it true#
That there my judgments they did go;
Because their sins nad me provok’d
Upon the head to bring the stroke.
And now the stroke, I Bid them fear#
For I shall answer from their prayer:
Let no man mock me by their word,
To own the judgments are from God#
And then to give their God the lief
And say my judgments cannot be
Plac’d in the manner I did say:
For this was first thy Prophecy,
That if my shepherds they dia mock,
Upon the head I d brine the stroke.
Therefore their Prayers I’ll own them trut^
*Tis for their sins they all shall know
That I do so afflict their king—
And now their answers Let them bring#
And tell me how it did appear
The judgments threatened heretofore#
What in thy writings I have seal’d ?
Let them seek out, to be reveal'd,
Or else the feet may tremble here,
Because the head the pain doth bear/*
Now, my dear Miss Townley, you see the w
ia->
<Jom of God joined with his power in fulfilling the
words that have been always said to me, that out of
their own mouths he would condemn m a n k in d .
You know how I was told, the shadorw of judgments
began in our land when the King was first seized
with illness, in the very month that was mentioned
that dangers would begin; but as no man would own
the visitation of the Lord in it, you know I was or­
dered to seal up the Newspapers, and say the mark
still stood in the dark for man. But now men have
brought that mark to light themselves, by their
owning the visitation of the L ord to our s o v e -
bbign for the transgression of his people, which was
in my Prophecies; for though I said, if the shep­
herds did not lay it to heart, the Lord would cut
the land ; but it was on the King the first stroke was
to come; and now that they have owned it, the Lord
hath publicly explained it. So I do not fear who
seeth the letter; for if the Bishops have any love
for their King and Country, and they have owned
Digitized by
k
‘ ( M l
the cause, now let them try to remove the effect
Now what have you or I to fear, when we are guided
by a God so wondrous in wisdom, so wondrous in
working, so wondrous in council, power, and truth,
that would not permit me to say, publicly to the
world, the judgments were there begun, before the
wise and learned had publicly confessed it ? Now
call to your remembrance the former words.— By
the 2Qth of M ay men's wisdom I'll confound, and
in June I’ll prune the sons of men; arid now in
their own wisdom they are cut down; and where is
the 'man who can withstand: the wisdom and power
of a God, whose footsteps are hid in the great deep
and whose paths are past man’s finding out ? And
though our weak sight cannot see how a s will
bring all things to pass that is spoken in my
writings; yet, I see that G o d , whose wisdom never
has erred, is now shining brighter and brighter, to
the perfect day. So we shall see the S A L vxf io n
o f the L o r d , if we are perfect in obedience to his
Command. But 1 am clearly convinced of the
tmth of the words last year, “ that they all stood
but as-water pots, before the time was come that
the Lord bringeth every truth to light; and we
. have seen things but as trees walking; yet, I trust
toon we shall see all things as men.” Since I had
finished writing my own judgment to you, from the
wisdom of the Lord in this wondrous working, I
was answered by the S p i r i t in the following man­
n er: ■ ■
Now from thy words Til stutter here—
A G od in power shall now appear,
In every wisdom bright to shine,
And all shall know the Wisdom's mint
fo r to conceal it all from man,
E ffort I prov'd it by their hand,
To make them own my judgments tru^
from their own sins—to say it was so:
And for their sins, the thing is done.—
And now I'll try the love of man;
Iffo r their King, they'll now appear,
For to remove m y judgments there,
Digitized by G o o g l e
The hidden Mysteries to find out^»
From their own words they cannot doubt
But 'tis their sins have brought it on,
Then let the cause be remov’d by man9
If that their Sovereign they will free
From all his suffering malady :f
For still m y wisdom is behind,
That thou another day wilt find;
And m y Salvation all shall see*
That do obey like her and thee.
So Townley nothing;has to fear,
I f in her faith sheY
ll persevere 5
Because more wisdom she will see*
That is conceal’d from her and thee.
Because men s wisdom I’ll confound*
And make them tremble at the sound
Before that 1 have ended here,
They’ll see m y W isdom shine more clear
Than by thy wisdom thou hast seen
Is shining, like the fervent Sun,
That shall in splendour soon appear
W ith light too strong for thee to bear*
Without a cloud to stand between:
My wondrous working will be seen
Just like the judgment thou dost draw*
And that my foes shall see and know.
And therefore Townley bold may stand
For to support thy written hand \
And I'll support her from all harm:
Let no one fear the rising storm
That men can bring upon their friends*
They’ll see m y power is in the end.’*
( 25 )
(Signed,) J oanna Southcott.
t Extractfromthe 5th pageof the Prayersfo’r the Fast.
“ H ave mercy, w e beseech thee, upon thy Servant
our Sovereign, whom thou hast smitten fo r the trans­
gressions o f his people. We acknowledge that fo r our
manifold sinst w e are worthy o f the severity o f
tlyjudgments, yet w e beseech theet .incline thine ear to
vs, when, with penitent and contrite hearts, w e turn
unto thee, and remove froth our Sovereign and from
us this dreadful visitation.
Dbar M iss T ownley,
I Shall send you the Communication that was
given me, in answer to the Prayer after the Prayer
D.
Digitized by G o o g l e
for the whole state of Christ’s Church, that was tq
follow, wherein are these w o r d s -
“ And to all those that may be ordained to sufferfo r
thy sake,' impart, O merciful Lord, such plentiful
Succours of thy Holy Spirit, pour into their souls suck
contempt of pain and death, kindle in their hearts such
love of thee, and zeal for thy truth, fill them with
such animating hopes of immortality, that after the ex­
ample of the blessed saints and martyrs of the primi­
tive ages, they may so stedfastly confess thee before men,
that having glorified thy name, by their sufferings here
upon earth, they may obtain of thee an everlasting
crown of glory. And grant to us all, such a denial
of ungodliness and worldly affections, that we may look-
forward with k°pe to the consummation of all thingst
and to the glorious appearance of the great God and
our Saviour, Jesus Christ
Here is the Communication given in answer torit:
“ I now tell thee, it is those who aye workers with
m e to bring in my Kingdom of Peace, that are now
suffering the reproach of man for my sake,. W ho
else can they prove is suffering for my sake ? Let
them answer, who they are that are now suffering
for my sake, but only those who are now persecuted
for my sake ? But I know the thoughts of thy
heart: thou sayest, that men will say, those , that
are called to the war are suffering for my sake.
But is thy judgment so weak, to believe it, that
they are suffering for my sake, when they are going
to a war to defend their own lives, and the lives o f
others; and my Honour nor my Kingdom is not in
their thoughts ? Then how can they be suffering
for my sake, that have no love for m e, nor any de­
sire for my Kingdom approaching ? Then how can
they compare such men with my saints and mar­
tyr? ? I tell thee, N o : they cannot compare the
soldiers wjth saints and martyrs; neither are they'
looking for the glorious approachinig of the great
( *6 )
Digitized by Google
God arid Saviour, Jesus Christ. These things are
not in their thoughts; but these things are in
the thoughts of my people, that are now looking
for my Coming.— For on your heads their Prayers
shall rest; for I will give a plentiful succour of my -
Holy Spirit, and pour it into your souls, that are
now suffering for my sake—
( *7 )
For on your heads their prayers shall ever rest*
And as they pray’d, I say you shall be blest ;
Because my Holy Spirit here is come,
And for to pour it I shall still go on;
For all their Prayers I’ll turn a different way:
And let the learned now point out to me
W ho they can prove do suffer for my sake,
But only those my cause do undertake;
Just like the martyrs or the saints of old,
Like my disciples, I shall now unfold,
W ho suffer'd then my Gospel to bring in—
-
And now my Kingdom if you will it win,
I know, reproach you’ll suffer first for mb,
As SatanS fury in mankind will be:
And so my friends must suffer for rtiy sake,
Because tne rage of hell in man will break.
Therefore my friends will suffer riow for me,
And there my Spirit th£y with power shall see;
And so their prayers shaft rest upon your heads,
Fcfr I will pour my Spirit as they pray’d.
No other sufferers are there in the land,
That for my sake they now can boldly stand.
To say they are saints, and suffering now for ME.
Bring forth the soldiers, let them answer thee:
If to the battle they go for my sake;
Or like the saints my Cause do undertake;
Just like the martyrs that did die before.
1 ask what oaths or curses, then were there,
W hen iti the flames in love for me they stood?
Then how canst thou so vainly this allude
Unto the soldiers, that do so boldly swear ?
Hast thou not trembled oft their words to hear ? '
Then where the saints or martyrs thou canst see
In any soldiers suffering no*v for me ?
And from thy heart 1 know thou answerest, none;
Then unto them that Prayer can never come;
For well I know they suffer not for me,
Nor yet my Kingdom do they wish to see.
Therefore Vis judgments that be in the war;
And with the martyrs wilt thou this compare ?
No, n o : I tell thee, they’re no martyrs there;
Nor for my sake their sufferings do appear*
n 2
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
( * • ' )
And fiom their conscience they must own it troe£
For praise and victory is all that’s in their view:
Ana in thy heart thou say’st the words are true—
They are not soldiers suffering for my sake;
Nor will they answer that their life’s at stake
For any love that they have got for me ;
And with the shepherds this cannot agree*
W ith saints and martyrs ever to compare;
Because the praise of men is all their cart;
And nothing now they ’re suffering here for mb*
Because my Honour 1 do plainly see
Is not regarded by the shepherds there*
If theyjudge blasphemy in thee appear*
And not come hasty all for to prevent:
They must in silenee say with one consent*
No, *tisour Honour we come to maintain.
If thou horn Exeter hear first from men*
Then for my sake must every man stand mute
W hile 1 with reason boldly will dispute
It's not my Honour you sought to maintain:
No! no! I tell you lis the pride of man;
Because your Honour you were afraid would fall—
And this shall be my answer to them all*
If they in London do not first appear;
Because the Warning and the News came there*;
Unto that City* 1 do tell thee, first*
And their Society must now be cast;
If they can prove the Book in vice appear*
And 'do not hasty come* to see it clear;
F ori permitted it there tcfcome at first,
To try and prove them how they now will b u n t
So if they do not come for to condemn*
They must appear to justify thy hand*
Or else no love, they can have for me.
*Tis but seditious books* I now tell thee*
That their Society do now suppress,
If they are silent now to answer this ;
Then where's the love that men express for mb?
No* all mv suffering friends I now do see
Are only those that wish my Kingdom here;
And they alone men’s ridicule do bear.
For this I know they suffer for my sake;
And here with power shall my Spirit break: *
And so their Prayers shall rest upon your heads;
For here 111 prove my Spirit strong doth lead*
To shew my Coming unto all is near;
For so my suffering friends do now appeat
T o suffer shame and all reproach for m e:
No other sufferers in this land 1 see*
That now can prove they Suffer for my sake;
• See the advertisement in the papers, addressed to the Society for
the SuppressionofVice.
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
( )
A pi here my Spirit shall with power break.
For with my suffering tiiends i'll now go on,
Until their sufferings all for me arc gone;
And then to joy their sufferings I will turn,
And those that cause their sufferings then shall m ow*
For in the end my suffering friends they'll see
To eom* in triumph every one with ms,
Enthron'd in glory, or, 1 say, below."
My suffering friends for me Lthen shall shew
That they in me shall find their full reward;
For all their love 1 faithfully regard.
So now, my suffering friends, let all appear#
And speak from conscience if they suffer here
For any love that they have got for me,
Only my friends that noware join’d with thee;
And then to man I'll answer here again;
But well I know it cannot be prov'd by men.
Therefore the Prayer they then made for the Fast#
1 say, upon your heads that Prayer shall burst
(Signed,) J o a n n a S o u t h c o t * .
O
T
4 EVE’S BEING THiTsISTErTBRIDE,. AND MOTHER*
IN THE CREATION.
Dear M iss T owwjlev, May2 1 ,1 8 0 4 .
1 had a wonderful communication given me thit
morning that astonished me, when I came up to m y
writing, and prayed for directions. It is th u s:
“ I have brought thee hither with these two :
[Miss Townley and herM ud,] who I call my Mother
and my Sister; for I said they that did my will, the
tame were my mother and my sister; and by them
my will is done. Now I shall give direc­
tions to thee, and tell thee what is meant by my
mother and my sister. As a mother wishes to sup­
port the honour of her son, and the happiness o f a
son, so does she wish to spend her time,, and money
like a mother, for my honour and glory, and for
the good of my brethren ; and as a sister that loveth
her brother joins with her mother, just so is her
servant now joined with her mistress; here is the
shadow o f my Bible fulfilled ; as it is with the mis­
tress, so with, the m aid; as it is with the borrower*
to with the lender. Let my brethren weigh this deep*
and know, I called these two women my mother
Digitized by Google
ftnd my sister,' and as my brides joined with thee :
fo r so tie wofnan was in the creation, as being taken
from the man, she was his sister ; but as bearing him
children, she was a wife', and a mother ; thus was
the woman made at first, and this must be the state
of the woman at last, now I am come to free the fall
of women. Here I have placed you three, as true
helpmates for man; and as such let men receive you,
if they wish to be made alive in m e, as they died in
Adatn. For here all shall find is a shadow of my
Gospel began in you three ; and by the hands o f
you three my wondrous working shall go on, till
your light snail break forth as the morning, and the
truth be made as clear as the noon day’s sun, that
the woman is the true and perfect helpmate for m an;
for by the woman I will now complete his happiness,
but no other way will I ever accomplish it*
So from you three mankind shall sec*
Vour brother I'll appear;
* - The second Adam is in me,
Then see the Bridegroom here,
To take the woman as my friend,
M y mother for to be :—
I tell you man knows not the end.
M y sister they must see j
M y brides appear 1 tell you here,
For I am the woman's friend.
It is to make my Gospel clear
That 1 these things ordain'd;
To have these thtee alike to be,
And see my Gospel clear.
Then, my disciples, now judge ye,
M y brethren all appear;
And now see plain, ye sons of men*
How I've brought round this last;
Before* the trial doth come on
1 tell you so't must burst:
For to shew clear all are here,
And here I've place’d these three,
My Law and Gospel for to clear:
Then let my brethren see,
.My will by them must now be done,
I f brethren they will be.
Then I'll appear, I tell them here,
Their brother and their friend:—
Their conquering Saviour 1 11appear
( 30 j
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
( a i y
And save them in the end 5
From Adam’s fall, I tell them all,
I shall them all redeem;
And let my coat be known to alt,
It was without a seam,
Then now see clear, 1 must appear,
All interwoven through;
No seam of sorrow shall be here,
When I’ve my work gone through.
So brethren all I now do call
You, by the woman’s hand,
And if my friends you'll now appear.
Then by these women stand,
la perfect love let none remove
Your strong affections here !
And place no daggers in the breasf
O f those to me are dear:
For if you do, I tell you true,
You'll place them in your own;
My Gospel is before your view,
And let my words be lenown ;
My will is done," I tell you plain,
By these three women here: *
And I their cause will now maintain,
And let the land take care.—
For now I say to thee this day,
Their ruin shall come on,
If men my words now disobey ; .
1 this shall answer man,
I've made all clear, that I am here
In Spirit come again :
The mystery deep no man can clear
To prove from Hell it came ;
No, 'tis from me, mankind shall see,
For so 1 shall appear,
To prove my Spirit visits thee,
Ana other friends are here,
Whose hearts within to me are known
Like mothers to appear,
And so a sister’s love is shewn— .
And let the Land take care *"
They do not mock, for now the stroke
Shall go throughout the Land;
I tell thee, like thy Brother’s Son,
Convulsions now shall come;
If men appear as heretofore
And now despise the call,
I tell thee, like thy Brothers Son,
I’ll bring the stroke on all;
Year after year it shall appear,
Convulsions men will see,
The agonies the child did bear
In England now shall be,
If they go on, I tell thed plain, -
My Warning to despise, -
S
' Digitized by Google
/
(i 32 >
J shall not trifle now with m en
I f they do act unwise,
T o slight my Love, as now 111 prove
J’m cqme to set them free,
And all their sorrows to remove,
I f now they’ll turn to me.
If they will not, I’ll tell their lot.
Their ruin shall abound;
And let the child not be forgot—
In May they heard the sound;
So M^y is come, I say, for man.
And may they all relent! !
Or they will see such destiny
W ill make'them all repent.
J f they can bear my threatening* hero
And not the words regard,
But all my Love they disapprove
And not my Love reward,
To wish for me—they all shall see
My anger for to b u rn -
ingratitude, they all shall see,
Shall find the same return:
But those that turn and now begin
In Love to wish me near,
They’ll fold a brother and a friend,
A Saviour to appear—
To save them all from Adam’s foil
And set the prisoners free* #
That now are bound in Satan’s chains.
If men will turn to me ;
Then 1 to them will surely turn
And strong their Friend appear, .
For my delight shall be with men, •
I f their delight be here
T o have me come, and dwell with them,
M y Coming they shall see,
How I from Sorrows shall redeem
And from all sufferings free. .
So this to Sharp I bid thee send;
And let them weigh all deep,
And then I’ll stand their every friend,
I f now my word they keep;
And warn them all, that great’s the call.
And great ’tis now for man;
Because my Judgments strong will foil
If men now mode thy hand:
For I’ll appear in words more dear.
Your Nation blind must be,
If altogether men compare
And judge it not from me :
And if they’re blind, the ditch they'll find
It hastening on for a ll:
But if they see the mystenr
And come to judge the cau,
Digitized by Google
Then I’ll appear to make it dear
from Heaven is every sound j
But if men say they will not hcaf*
In grief they shall be found;
And 1 11 nothear 1tell them there
If they'll hot now hear me j
When Sorrows in your Land abound
1 will not set them free.”
(Signed,) Joan n a SouthcotT*
D ear M iss T o w n le y, Jw iel, 1804.
“ On the receipt of your letter that you sent to
me, from Mr. Sharp, of a Bishop’s returning his
two engravings of our Saviour and the Virgin Mary,
with these words, “ The Bishop of *-------- , is
obliged to.Mr. Sharp for the offer of his Prints, but
desires to be excused from' accepting them. They .
are fine engravings, and he wishes Mr. Sharp shewed
as much judgment in his religious opinion as skill in
jiis profession. -------- - House, May 30th, 1804***
This contempt of the Bishop filled my soul with
contempt. Oh, what a pattern do the ministers of
God’s word set before mankind, to fill their hearts
with scorn and contempt! If Mr. Sharp, being an ar­
tist* is a judge of his profession, I confess the Bishop
has given him more credit for his profession than I
can give the bishop for his profession as a minister
of God’s word ; as I cannot give that honour to the
bishop. For we must give honour where honour is
due. But what honour can there be due to the bi­
shop from me, when I consider the thousands a
year they are paid to be faithful Shepherds of the
Lord, to take care of his Flock ? And Christ died to
set them an example, to follow his footsteps. Now
if Christ so loved the World, as to die for m an; and
became poor, that we, through his poverty, might
be made rich; ought not the bishops, that are made
rich by the Gospel, to take care of Christ’s flock
that is committed to their care ? Now I ask the
Bishop, who came to Christ that he refused to
hear, or whom he sent empty away ? W hat did
our Saviour say unto Peter i “ Simon, Son of Jo*
it
( 33 )
Digitized by Google
nah, lovest thou me ?” Peter said, “ Yea, Lord*
thou knowest all things, thou knowest that I love
thee.” “ Then feed my sheep, feed my lambs,’*
wen Christ’s commands. And now I shall come to the
'Communion Service, for the preparation of the
Lord’s Supper: “ Let your light so shine before
men, that they may see your good works and glorify
your Father, which is in Heaven. Not every one
that saith unto M e, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the
Kingdom of Heaveft, but he that doth the will of m y
Father, which is in Heaven. Therefore, if there be
any of you, who, by this means, cannot quiet his
own conscience herein, but requireth further com­
fort or council* let him come to me, or some other
discreet and learned minister of God’s word, and
open his grief, that by the ministry of God’s holy
Word, he may receive the benefit of absolution,
together with ghostly council and advice to the qui­
eting of his conscience, and avoiding of all scruples
and doubtfulness*” Now here, as faithful Shepherds,
they are in duty bound to give clear and right judg­
ment ; not to judge of a cause unheard ; but to be
clear in judging, that they may be able to give
ghostly council and advice, to the quieting of the
consciences of those that have scruples or doubts.
Now this is the strict command to the clergy, if
they profess themselves ministers of God’s word.
And then where was a cause of more importance to
all people than mine is, to the quieting of the con­
science of those that are called with me ? When I
then told you, my dear Miss Townley, it is for
the quieting of our conscience, that you did the
will of the Lord to write unto him ; then how much
is he bound in duty to give ghostly advice to the
quieting of our conscience ? But instead of this*
he refused to hear, and treated the application with
contempt; when not only our souls, but the souls
of thousands must be in danger, if it were possible
for a wrong spirit to lead me astray. But on the
contrary* if it be of God* as I am firmly persuaded
( 34 )
Digitized by G o o g l e
and assured, this wondrous visitation never came
to me from any other spirit but the Spirit of the
tiviNG L ord, and the whole nation stands in danger^
of utter ruin for their neglect. Strongly are the
words said to me, if the Lord calleth and no man
answer, they shall call, and he will not answer,
but laugh at their calamity, and mock when their
fear cometh. And now I am full of the fury of the
Lord, whose anger is kindled against his Shepherds;
for deeply are the words said to me, it was the
Lord that worked in Mr. Sharp’s heart, to send the
prints of our Saviour to the Bishop, at the time
the Lord had ordered his words to be sent to him by
you, and he has as-much refused to obey the com­
mand of /he Lord, as he refused to receive the pic­
tures of our Saviour. Now the contempt that the
ministers o f God’s word, when they first treated,
me in the like manner, sunk my spirits, when I
sought them in the bitterness of my soul, and they
would not hear. This sunk my soul in secret sorrow,
and in private prayer and tears I poured out my
complaints and grief unto the Lord; for as man re­
fused to hear me I trusted wholly in the Lord, and
knowing I was so much their inferior in rank and
fortune, I bowed in submission with a broken heart
to their silent contempt; but now I find that you
sre a lady of family and fortune, not inferior to
them, and Mr. Sharp, an artist of no low profes­
sion and well known in the world, to be treated
with this contempt hath raised my spirits with in­
dignation ; so I shall thank you, or Mr. Sharp, to
write to the bishop, in my name, or your own,
what is the duty of a bishop, if he judge the call­
ing not of God. To try and prove it by his argu­
ments, and shewing his strong reasons, is the com­
mandof the Lord unto man. I must conclude with
saying, I wish the bishop was as good a judge of his
duty, as a bishop, as Mr. Sharp is of his engraving,
as an artist; but he cometh far short of Mr. Sharp,
s 2
( 35 )
Digitized by Goode
for though he gave M r. Sharp credit as an artist,
I cannot give the bishop cred it as a bishop; un­
less, like Peter, he is convinced of his- errors and
goeth out and weep bitterly. This I have written
to you for your perusal, in the height of anger, a*
you apd Mr. Sharp arc treated with contempt op
my account, as well as the L ord, for doing the
thing that he had commanded you,. Now, my dear
Miss Townlcy, you see how my passions were
worked, after hearing in what humble polite man­
ner Mr. Sharp addressed the bishop, and offered to
wait upon his lordship, and give him every ip-
formation ; for the glory of God and the good o f
mankind were all the ends he could have in view,
but the glory of God and the good of man­
kind were treated with scorn and contempt, But
now judge my surprise after J had written in
the height of my anger, as a private letter, to you,
I was answered in the following manner : “ The pre­
paration of thy heart in thy letter to'Townley, came
from m e , for thou art full of the fury of the Lord,
and all my fury this land shall find.— The enemy
shall break in upon them and destroy them, if my
. Spirit, and my faithful servants are treated with this
contempt} therefore my strict command is to thee,
to have thy letter, thou hast written tq Townlcy, in
the height' of thy anger, put into print; for it was I,
the Lord, that worked that anger ip thee ; and they
shall see much greater in m e . If they do not re­
pent, I will strengthen the enemy, tp be strong
against them and they shall not be able to get out
o f his power, for they are doing despite-to my
Spirit and jp my servants; and l will reward them
according to their works, unless they return with
weeping, as Petfr did. Then wilj I shew mercy
unto them, and not destroy them ; for the bat­
tle i$ mine, to give the victory which way I
will. So let the letter be printed, and my an­
swer to it, for it is fipal for thee, or Townley,
or Sharp, if out of fear of offending the bishop,
my command is not obeyed ; for all men shall
( 38 )
, ~ •^ iS
T
*ir £
,*
£
— f >
7
f£t~ ^-/^L fS fAe~ L'A'i-S/v ^
tHV^ l/ Jx
_
_ ~
/
/
iC*
-
*
-- /
<Zt*.-/*.
- &-e,
eA*-*<*A-i
•<
•>
«
*
( ? 7 )
know thy writings come from the l i v i n g L ord,
who feareth no man’s person, and for my Honour
and great Name, I cannot save this land from ruin;
but for the sake of the shepherds’ searching into all
thy writings, to know, and to prove from whence
they came ; for the word is gone out of my mouth,
and shall not return, till unto me every knee d6 bow,
and every tongue do swear.” Here you see I
am caught in a net; by my own feet, thinking to
write you a private letter, I am ordered to make it
public ; to kindle the wrath of mankind against
me; but what is the wrath of man, to the wrath of
the Lord ? Man can but kill the body, but the Lord
can cast squI and body into hell. It is better for me
to die, than the whole nation to perish, by my diso­
beying the command of the Lord'; so I must stand
the trial of their fu ry; as in man I could never find
pity. Here I was ordered to add a parable that was
in my thoughts, of a man at Topsham in Devonshire:
hewas a man that my father told me of, that had for
along time been stealing of salt, from a salt trader;
at last the owner of the salt caught him, stealing of
his salt; he had filled up near a hundred- weight to
carry aw ay; when the owner came, •who told
him if he would pay him 30l. for all the salt he had
stolen from him, as lie had lost it for a long time, he
would forgive him. The thief paid him the 30l. and
went and indicted the master, for concealing a thief,
and not indicting him ; and the mastertold my fa­
ther, it cost him five hundred pounds, and brought
him to beggary, poverty, and want; that he had
made it Up with the man, thinking to save the exr
pences o f a prosecution: so to encourage men in
vice doth but harden their heama the more. This
thing of the man I was orderedTb pen, and now I
shall give the answer of the Spirit, that was given
to me in answer to this parable of the man.
Now thy fable thou hastended.
For to answer I'll appear:
Like the thief I now intend it
My indictment shall be here.
Digitized by Google
Hut now within tbou dost begin,
Tby pondering heart I know:
Satan may with the thief compare
But will the L ord do so ?
For to compare my honour here*
Unto a thief that’s cast:
The Brazen Serpent this will clear ;
For so 1 now shall burst
On every man, that's in your land.
In power to appear,
If they do judge thy written hand
In blasphemy i* here*
Jfthey go on to act like him,
And say they’ll it forgive-,
For the expences of the law,
, The tho ght he should save, .
To harden sin he did begin,
Until it did abound,
And then upon his head it came—*
Then tremble at the sound *
,
^or to yourLand it so will come,
For sin you’re hardening here.
If Satan now do guide her hand,
In her it must appear)
Jf it be not, I’ll tell your lot,
You harden it in your I*an<L
In blasphemy I now tell thee,
Your nation it doth stand;
Men do blaspheme my every Name,
That speak against my woyd.
The shepnerds now must own with shame
They do blaspheme the Lordj
I f ’tis from M
R thy writings be,
Then here they do blaspheme.
And won’t my shepherds now agree
To know from whence itcame ?
Then I’ll go on, I tell thee plain,
With my indictment here
Until I’ve Drought the heavy load,
Their ruin shall appear j
As on the man the load did come,
His ruin for to be *
Because the end of him was known,
He was in poverty
Brought by the law, thou well dost know
His folly brought him poor;
Because the thief, he well might know,
Would quickly steal for more;
When he wtid down the thirty pojunda
He hanien’d was in sia.
And so the man his sorrows founds
Because he’d harden'd him
For to go on in every sin,
And he the stroke did feel,
v And perfect so is now your Land,
Your grounds 111never heal
( 38 )
Digitized by Google
White you go onto harden sin*
And rob me of my fame.
One way or other this is done*
For blasphemy must come;
They all must know the truth isso*
If thou dost here blaspheme.
And like the man the shepherds ard*
To let thee steal my Name;
Because like he the shepherds bea
That trouble think to save;
And with the man they do agree*
The money’s all they crave; -
This is the likeness ofyourland*
And so they do agree;
And if this way they now go on*
They’ll find his poverty
Will come on all, both great and sm
&O*
For who shall you redress >
As you're hardening sin in.all*
IT! boldly answer this:
If now from me thy writings be*
As I affirm them here*
Your land isfull ofblasphemy*
As men so boldly swear;
Against my name they do blasphemes
. And rob me day by day.
And so ydu let them to goon—
Give ine the gold, you say:
Sin may abound in every sound*
For ought that you do care.
Just like the man you all are found*
And so his end you’ll share*
Ifyou goon toact like him*
Thinking to save the first*
I plainly tell you in the end,
Xikehimyourend shall burtt,
For poverty and misery
Shall fast upon you come,
tty land is full of blasphemy,
Then tremble now vain men ;
For I'll make clear, I tell you here*
That I the Lord do warn ;
But you my Spirit cannot bear,
.And back you all do turn
My offers all; for now 1 call*
And do you all invite
For toreceive my offer’d love*
But it youall do slight
Forlike the Jews you hear the news*
And crown my head the same;
For back the thorns you now do turn*
Then tremble at my Name.
If 1 turn back the coming stroke*
As then the Jews did see;
, Your names like them must be forgot:
( You’ll not accept of me,
( $9 )
Digitized by Google
( 4o )
To have me come your Prince and &fo£|
Your Father and yourFriend; N
Your conquering Saviourto appear,
Your Brother in the end.
And your Redeemer to appear:
But fU redeem my Friends
'That now do bear for me the spear,
As I bore it at first;
And then my crown with me they'll share.
For to it now shall burst”
A dieu! my dear Miss Townley, I have only time
to add my love, and good wishes, to yourself and all
friends, and believe me,
sincerely yours,
(Signed,) J o a n n a S o u t h c o t t .
D ear M iss T ownley, June 3d, 1804.
W hat a letter have you sent to iiie from a Minis­
ter, that hath done violence to his OWn understand­
ing l first to say, there was no such thing as prophe­
cies : and then to conclude his letter by saying, he
himself is a prophet. Here I shall place his words
that were in his letter, that you sent me. “ T h e
Christian however, my dear madam, is so strongly-
cautioned by his Divine Master against being d e­
ceived by raise prophets, ahd false doctrines, that
if he does surrender his understanding to enthusiasm,
and make shipwreck of a sound faith, while in pur­
suit of fables, and lying wonders, he exposes him­
self, more or less, to the aweful fate of the false pro- .J
phet. Rev. 20 chap. 10 verse,— W oe unto them that j
say, the Lord saith, when the Lord hath not spoken ;
who pretend to spiritual gifts, which are neither
granted, nor indeed necessary in this Era o f the
' Church, &c. &c. I am an ambassador, an unwor­
thy one, I confess, from Jesus Christ, if you disre­
gard my warning voice; behold I am charged by
him to prophesy unto you, that he will laugh at
your calamity, and mock when your fear .cometh.”
In the Postscript he recommends to your perusal, the
22 chap, of the 1st book of Kings. Now, my dear
Miss Townley, out of his own mouth will I con­
demn him, as one of the false Prophets, he point-
Digitized by L j O O Q i e
ed out to you that Ahab was seduced by. Can a
man presumptuously say, he prophesieth in the name
o f Christ, and boldly tell you, there is no necessity
for spiritual gifts ? Then he must be the prophet he
mentions, to say the Lord saith, when the Lord
hath not spoken. Then how can he be an am­
bassador from Christ, and a prophet in his name,
without he be visited by his Spirit ? Deeply are the
words said to me, that the anger of the Lord, that
was kindled in me so greatly yesterday, the '2d. of
June, was as much in consequence of his letter, that
the Lord knew was coming, as it was for the bi­
shop’s, refusing to search into every truth ; therefore
the Lord worked in my heart, to place the Scrip­
tures in that manner, and send them to you; and
fave that strict charge, they should go in print.
’or the Lord knew what letters were coming from a
man who saith Lord, Lord, and thinks because he
is a minister he is an ambassador from Clirisr, and
hath authority to prophesy in his name, with con­
fidence and assurance < and this is the reason why
the Lord has so threatened the clergy, for setting
up their own wisdom, in opposition to the wisdom
of God. But what did the Lord say, by the mouth
of his prophets ? Prophesy thou against these pro­
phets, that prophesy out of their own hearts, and
nave seen nothing; and say the Lord saith, when
I have not spoken. For I neither commanded him,
neither did I send him, is the word of the Lord,
now spoken to me. Therefore the threatenings of
the Lord are so severe to the bishops, if they do not
call the whole together, and let the cause be fairly
tried who is the true prophet, he that demerit spiri­
tual gifts, and says there is no necessity for them,
but yet afhrmeth in Christ’s name he is a prophet
unto you, and threatens' judgments if you do not
obey his voice. On the other hand, I am writing
to you from the Spirit, that fatal judgments will fall
upon you, if you do not obey the voice of the Lord
9
( 41 )
Digitized by Google
arid follow after spiritual gifts, that you may
the Lord, if you follow on to know him. N ow
which are you to obey, Gpd or man, judge ye ? It is
your cause they must take in hand, which of th'fe
two you are to obey ; aqd whether all the ministers
are prophets, the bishops must decide : or you w in
all find an Ahab’s reign shall come. So let the cause
be fairly tried, who is the Micaiah the trqe prophet,
or who are the false prophets ? For he has po.ntejl
to the very chapter that I have threatened shall bring
destruction on your land, if they are seduced by false
prophets. And now he hath told Tpwriley, the rtii-
nisters are the prophets, without spiritual gifts; and
I have told them thpu art the prophet with spiri­
tual gifts. Then let the truth be tried’; and this chUj^-
ter must be mentioned : Ahab was seduced by first
prophets, and was slain, And now he saith the Wii-
jiist'ers are the ambassadors qf Christ, and they ^reth’t
prophets of tfie Lord. Then riowjbdge foryourselveV,
ye men of Israel; Ahab’s false prophets were mahy?
but the true prophet Micaiafrwas but one ; to the
False ’prophet? must be the clergy, ‘ as he his made
the clergy the prophets, and they are many, bu't I
am one ; and his letter has brought it to the very
"purporfof my writings, arid out of Tiis own month he
has cast the clergy for false prophets, by the ‘chapi­
ter he alluded to, ancj made good my last bo6ks i
for in them they are cast aS' false prophets ; land ft
was said the shame of their nakedness tfrould appear.
1 So here you seefhero^c of sand, ' ; /* '
That jfV prophets thqy may stand:
ThensureyourLand m
ust.aU be casf,
As ipthe chapterit is plac'd/
Here I shall end for the present, as I ‘fear this le&e'f
will be too late'for the prist, and I am ordered it must
go to day, as the letter I wrote to you yesterday,
and the letter I ;have setit you to day, must grim
print together;' so, my dear Miss ToWnley, I must bid
adieu; You will hear from me again to-morrow with
ifullexplanafion Ofthe y hole.
1 (Signed,) ' Joanna Sovthcott.
( *
4* } _______ _
Digitized by Google
f « 1
iDBAE M iss T o w n lby, May theigih, 1804*
. I|) wfrat wondrous manner is the Lord now work­
ing, jo bripg jvery shadow to the substance ! and
yet it i$ in so easy a manner as though all came by
chance. But I remember how deeply it was said to*
me years agone, that all these times, seasons, and
c)iaqces, were ordered and ordained by the Lord;
fro m t|ie newspaper that yoti sent me, of an adver­
tisement being put in tne paper by my friend, who
delires the religious Society for the Suppressioh of
yip? to examine my books and writings, and to point
quf every false doctrine they contain; of, if on the
contrary they should be found true explahations of
the Bible, the society 'must feel it a duty to make
every laudable effort to spieacj the knowledge of her
books in the world. When I had read the adver­
tisement, I was ordered to look the paper over, and
fount} P trial in the court' of Ring’s Bench, M ay
24t)i, the Kpig y. William Cobbett. It was an InT
formation filed, ex officio, by the attorney geperal
against Mr. Corbett, dor an aljedged libel on Lord
H ardw ire, the lord lieutenant of Ireland; Lord Red •
esdaie, lord high chancellor of Ireland ; M r. Justice
Osborne, one of the puisne‘judges of the court of
King’s Bench in Ireland ; arid*Alexander Marsden
Esq. under secretary in the civil department in Ire­
land.— I waa ordered tb takeout this part of the
trial:
“ I beg leave to say; gentlemen of the jury, that
the question fdr you to try, is the quo ahimo with
which this writing has been published; It compli­
ments the private virtues of Ixird H.irdtoicke, but it
points- out nis defects as a political character. It in­
culcates the most loyal principles, and ixeCrates re­
bellion throughout. !His object is clearly to excite
the vigilance of the well affected of both countries,
in order to secure them ‘ frdm the dreadful conse­
quences of sudden insurrections, and ‘the calamities
Digitized by Google
occasioned by it, such as unfortunately took place
in Iieland, in the month of July last.”
' # After I had copied these words, I was ordered to
mark the letter sent me, the same day, of the eight
tnen that are printing a Book against my W ritings.
— Now I shall give the Communication that was
given to tne, in answer to the above—
“ In all thy Writings I have gone from Types
and Shadows ; and this year I have told thee that
the Types and Shadows shall stand together. N ow
in the newspaper, that thy friend points out thy
Writings and Books to be examined by the Society,
the libel against Hardwicke stands. Now I tell thee,
no men, by all the learning they can invent, can
bring thine as a libel against man 5 because thou
hast done all in my Name, the Lord of Lords and
King of Kings, who fcareth no man’s person ; and
thou hast done all by my command; so if they in­
dict thee, it must be for a libel against the Lord,
whose private goodness to mankind thou hast point­
ed out through all thy writings ; but the public
threatenings are pointed out to man the same. So
here is the libel that men must try, not as against
man, but as against m e , whose
Private Virtues* are all unknown to man,
That’s in thy writings and shall ever stand;
And that my private Friends they all shall see
My private virtues arc made known to thee;
And so to man they’re publish'd all abroad,
To have my private Love for mar: made known;
But for the public it may now appear
That hard tne threatenings to this nation here,
If they in sileuce now these words do hear,
And do not seek the truth in all to dear;
Because a week they’ll surely find to come,
That I’m the Lord and will them all condemn.
If they bring Trials for men’s honour here,
And will not seek my honour for to clear:
To prove the calling if it be of God,
I tell them plain that hard they’ll feel my rod.
Because an awful week I’ll bring to man—
My public threatenings are throughout your Land;
Ard if my honour you’ll not here maintain,
To act for me as you do act for men,
To bring the Trial, you say the Truth you'll see,
For with thii libel it doth ail a^rce,
( 44 )
Digitized by Google
f f i )
My private footsteps and my Love for man c ( ■S
Are surely*publish d by her'written hand;
But for my public theatenings that are here ' . *
*
You judg'd them hard, but they shall be severe
If now I see yt>u shew more love to man,
To dear his honour, than for mine you'll come “
The Truth to try— If you’ll not seek to ktiow,
I tell you plain, that hard my hand shall go;
For I’m the Ix>rd, that she has written here,
My private Love to man she hath made clear}
But public threatenings and my wrath severe,
I tell you now, shall come upon the Land,
If not for me you will the Trial stand,
To know if she has forg’d my Name or no—*
And to the press these threatening* now must go#
Because this shadow here 1 did ordain;
And see the Bill is put in by my friend,
To have the truth in all be fairly tried.
And now they’ll surely find, if Fm denied,
That hard my Judgments now shall be for mad#
If for my honour they refuse to stand
The Truth in every thing to prove and try,
Since now for man they easy did comply.
To bring the Trial hasty on for man ;
And for my honour now I bid them stand,
For I am the Lord, that every soul shall see,
That now commands this Bill put in to be;
And if to prove it you do not regard,
I tell you plain, my liand you’ll find it hard;
For thereare Libels printing now I see,
Against my honour, and they cast shall be,
Because they’re printing now against my Nantty
Against thy writings menare going on.
Then sure I say they're printing against me.
And that with fury all your Land shall see,
If men don’t hasty come for to prevent,
And say, yre’ll trv the cause with one consent,
To know from whence the Bill doth now appeal
Against my honour men are printing here.
They must confess it isin man or thee;
For if thy writings do not come from me,
Then thou art wrongly printing in my Name;
And then mankind i’ll surely put to shame,
If they in love for me do not appear,
To prove from*whence it came, and see all clear;
Whether or no they do come from the Lord
They all mustjudge it by the written word,
Which from the world isnow seal'd up fromman.
For there in secret I have laid my plan,
The faith and wisdom first in men to try,
And then behind they’ll find my wisdom lie,
The truth of all 1 then shall surely clear,
And they shall find the Lord of I*ords is here.
That men in libels printing now they be
Against my honour I do plainly see;
And *o I say they surely shall be cast—
Digitized by
( 4 * t
for tliai’jj y*x jny Juryqow
. $h$U
Vun#
1 sav, tlieg^igno^nt for to condem
n.
ifo And nowto try the Cause I'mboldly coibe;
1° %
r*'*' So w
ith their fihehfet them \
oappear
%
l°Cj — Before m
v .Jury, and nicast tbemtbere ;
y Because their w
ords they,never can defend:
To wpieagainst the Lord w
ill m
an pretend,
When I dotell’therm Tam Lori?of all
That in thy w
ritings do this Nation call? .
And LoRp of LoRps I'll surely prove tobe;
And }iard js m
y hand, that every soul shall see;
I f then 'don't'find a week for to anpear
To brihgthe Trial, and toseeallclcar.
So here the w
drds are parted into three,
Apd asthey are parted so*!tw
i|| surely be,
ff m
en don’f hasty bring thv trial on,
To knowfromwhence thelibel now doth com
e.
For everjr soul that nowhave eves to sec,
They sure m
ust know'tisin theMen or thee*,
Apd jioty 1 Jell them it is in the Men,
Aha that theyll find, I’Dprovelt inthe end”
These last wordg wpre given to the, in answei td
the letter you sent roe, the samp day with'the news­
papers, of the men' at Stourbridge, that are now
printing a book against my writiogs, which is so
clearly explained, i? my writings are of Gcjd, they
are printing affifipst tHp L pfd ; but if1 my writings
are not of God, men shew no love to his honour to
let me go on ip his Name, to say the Lord saith, if
they can prove the Lord1hath not spoken by me *
and that is as equally impossible for man to do,
without searching into every truth, and trying them
the way the Lord hath commanded them to be tried,
as it is for a man that is siafk Iftinjj tp jodge of co­
lours. Neither can any man judge cqlours in the
dark, yet in the dark thejp prctendtojudge them,
but are afraid to come* to the ‘ light, fearing their
deeds should be reproved. This Communication t
am ordered .to serm to y?u to Kaye it put in print
with all speed.. I am ready tfwJ willing to stand
every trial to ^peyenf the Jiidgt^enp that threaten
us, and thathang oyer pur heads.— I shall give you
part of the letter I received from piy friend • “ There
is a book now in th§ press, printing, and where save-
Digitized by L j O O Q i e
M 7 j
fa/ heads have teen engaged in it, that are attaching
yourselfyour writings* aridyour abettors."—-In an­
swer to myself, no man cart irijurfc my character
without he doth it by falsehood and lies: for my
character will bear the strictest scratiny £
t» to any
thing the world can lay to my charge; but as to my
writings, and from what Spirit they come, I ready
to stand the trial, if they fan be .proved from any
Spirit, but the Spirit of the living Lord, I will freely
give them up, and; burn the tyhole. But 1 cannot
suffer my judgment to be so easily imposed upon as
tp believe such wondrous Wisdom, council, and
truth, can cpme from aiiv Spirit but from the God
of Wisdom and of Truth, before it is tried by the
touchstone pf truth, and fhen the Lord will make the
truth clear before them. Then how can men pre­
tend to judge of things they know nothing about ?
For none b.ut them that have searched into my writings
can be Judges of the truth they ‘
contain ; and as to
fee manner of the Writings that meti cohdehih, il is
but the fulfilling the Scriptures; for it is written,
The wisdom of God is foolishness to mert— and the
'wisdom of man is foolishness with God; and thii
"truth is plate land easy to be Understood, As meii
sp fooftshW pretend to explain the hiddeti mysteries
pf the Bible by their Own Wisdom and they have
explained it so many spays that the Bible can hAve
ho meaning or explanation at all by \h'p Visdorii bt
nien| for the wise men, the learned, and the good
men, haVe drawn s'o iuany judgments different from
each other, that they have made the Bible like a
rope df Sand, that cannot join together; and so they
make their oyvp wisdom, that will soqp break ip
sunder. But the foolishness of God is wiser than all
the wisdom of men, like a threefold cord, that can-
not be broken. 'As soon As I had written these
words, from my own observation, I was answered in
tHefollpAdfig ‘lines:
Digitized by L j O O Q i e
( 48 )
Now from thy wisdom, I will answer man:
Thoil’st plainly seen their wisdom like the sand*
That *tis impossible for man tojoin >
But now my foolishness 1*11 make it hang
Just likea threefold cord, that is not broke
By strength of man, unless you do it cut;
And now 1 tell thee, if men cut it here,
Just like the rope of sand shall all appear,
I say in pieces— so I’ll break your Land:
And here I’ll end it by the rope of sand;
Unless they*
11come and ioin it with my ^ord,
And then I’ll join them like a threefold cord;
Because my toevkness* every soul shall see,
Is stronger than the strength of man can be;
And so my folly in thy writings here
Is conceal’d in wisdom, that no man can dear.
To prove them weak or foolish in the end.
But for to try men’s wisdom, I intend
To bring it round in this weak foolish hand,
To prove that men were like thy rope of sand.
That by their wisdom they could neverjoin ;
But like a threefold cord they’ll nowfind mine
To break in pieces all their ropes of 6and,
For sq they'll find my threefold cord shall stand/'
Here I am ordered to end my B ook; and put in
print that a Book is publishing against my W ritings;
and it is said to me, the Book is full of blasphemy,
which will be proved hereafter. But I do not be­
lieve the men designed to print blasphemy against;
the Lord ; but they cannot write against his words,
ways, or wisdom, without it. This letter you a re .
desired to send hastily to the printer. And here the
Book ends.— So now, my dear Miss Townley, I
hope your great fatigue for the present is ovet. I
must conclude, with my earnest prayers that the
Lord will add a double blessing upon you. Please
to remember me to all friends. Adieu,
And believe me, your’s sincerely,
(Signed,) J oanna Southcott*
June§thr 1804.
Printed by S. Rotr&xeAir,
Wood Street, Spa Field*.
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
