{"name":"Mr Joseph Southcott Vindication Of His Sister","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1804__southcott___mr_joseph_southcott_vindication_of_his_sister.pdf","mytitle":"Mr Joseph Southcott Vindication Of His Sister","mylang":"de"}
H R . JO SE P H SO U TH CO TT,
THE BROTHER OF
JOANNA SOUTHCOTT,
W I L L N O W C O M E F O R W A R D A S D IN A H ’S B R E T H R E N D ID
T H A T T H E Y S H A L L N O T D E A L W I T H H IS SISTER ,
A S T H E Y W O U L D W I T H A H A R L O T ;
FOR SO T H E Y A R E N O W D E A L IN G W IT H HER.
A N D H E W I L L P R O V E T O T H E W O R L D W H E R E T H E
A D U L T E R Y IS C O M M IT T E D , B Y M E N W H O A R E
U N C IR C U M C IS E D I N H E A R T A N D L IF E ;
A N D N O W . H E W I L L E X P A N D A L L T H A T H E H A S
IN T H E W O R L D , IF R E Q U IR E D , IN T H E H O N E S T
D E F E N C E O F H ER C H A R A C T E R — T I L L H E H A S S L A IN
T H E H N C IR C U M C IS E D P H IL IS T IN E S ,
A N D E N T IR E L Y FR EED H IS SISTER FR O M T H E
R E P R O A C H E S O F T H E I R A D U L T E R Y .
LONDON:
PRINTED BY & ROUSSEAU, WOOD STREET, SPA FIELDS;
AND SOLD A Y E. J. FIELD, NO. 2, NIGH STREET, ST. GILES S,
TWO /DOORS FROM THE ANGEL IN N ; AND
t h e mjss e v e l e ig h s , s t . s id w e l l ’*, e x e te r .
1 8 0 4 .
Digitized by G o o g l e
- ; ( * )
Monday, Ju ly 2, 1804.
Now, Joanna; this is for thy Brother. I have
drawn my sword every way, to stir up jealousy, like
a n u n o ffta r; and like warriors will I prepare m y
soldiers for the battle; and as I have already told
thee, I now fell thee again, I should deal with men
after the manner of men; and after the manner o f
men I will now deal.. Therefore I told thee, when I
sent thee to firistdl, that I had sent thy Brother be­
fore the£, and I .should order thee to keep thy Brother
in Bristol, before thy trial came on. And now to
deal with men after the manner of men, when a W o ­
man hath no Husband and no Father, but only a
Brother, then that Brother, (by the laws of your
land, can support a Sister’s injured honour, if he can
prove her honour is injured falsely; and they that
have injured her character must prove it by wit­
nesses that she has done wrong, or they are liable
to be punished fbr slander, ff they murder a cha­
racter, and that of an innocent woman. And thou
hast affirmed to,, thy Brother, they are not only
murdering thy character, but murdering the cha­
racter of a worthy Lady that supports thee; mur­
dering the character of all thy friends; murdering
the g l o r y and h o n o u r of thy L o r d and S a v i o u r
J e s u s C h r i s t ; setting at nought all h i s counsels,
putting up man above h i s C r e a t o r ; saying with
Pharoah, W ho is the Lord that we shall serve him ?
W ho is the Most High that we shall pay homage
unto him ? This I will prove to the world, as a
G o d that now speaketh, and adultery has been
committed in Israel, by Pomeroy and thee; but I
will say, as Pomeroy said, I will exculpate thee, if
thou confessest the truth ; and every Letter thou
didst send, that thou sayest I commanded thee,
that it was / the L o r d that did command thee; the
Letter thou sent to Symonds, Monday the 25th of
June, it was I the Lord commanded thee to send it;
and Jack Symonds drew his sword against m e , and
Digitized by G o o g l e
( 3 )
sent back worse lies than Ananias and Sapphira
spoke. Here the D evil with Symotirfs began their
office : and thy Brother is in the Custom Office;
now in the Custom Office they are bound to act
with justice, honesty, truth, and sincerity, to their
king aud to their country; now tho^e laws thy
Brother has a right to demand of the Clergy to deal
with thee and with Town ley, and let him say as
Dinah's brethren did : “ Shall they deal with my
Sister as they deal with a harlot* ?'’ He may say,
“ Shall they deal with a Lady as they deal with a
harlot, one that is faithful to her God, faithful to
her friends, and a sincere and faithful friend to my
Sister, but that Lady's character I cannot ele,.r till
I have cleared my Sister’s innocence, that hath hud
the whole truth before me. Her Prophecies I had
heard of from the beginning; but I waited for time
to be a better judge, from whence they came. But
as these things are now known to the world, and all
her Books have been laid before me, I shall come
to the purpose of what she hath laid before me now.
Three causes are in hand. The first she lays before
me, is her being condemned for adultery in pro-
phaning the truth with the Rev. M r. Pomeroy. She
doth not condemn the man in any temporal adul­
tery ; she never heard of a spot in his character that
way in her life.— In the presence of Mrs. Taylor
she had a particular interview with him, when he
intreated her to sign the articles, which must fall
upon her head, and be guilty with him, if she do
not make the truth public, when he took her by the
hand, with a shew of kindness, to persuade her to
sign ; which she was after* told of, as far as Leeds
in Yorkshire, that Joanna Southcott had signed her
name in the public Newspaper with Mrs. Taylor
and M r Pomeroy, who had placed her writings to
the devil, with truth and errors blended together,
* Gen. X'::;iv. 31.
A 2
Digitized by G o o g l e
( o
so to adulterate the truth? for tiere Joanna says,'
“ At the time I put his name in print, and told
him, the L qbd had commanded me to do it, he then
said, before Mrs. Taylor and Mrs. Jones, it was
the devil ordered me to do it, and from that single
•word drew in Mrs. Taylor and me to sigh, that he
had said, my Writings were from the devil, and
put it in so artful a manner, that she never dis­
covered the way it was. put in till afterwards. And
now I shall come to the particulars of M r. Pomeroy,
and how this happened.— I put Letters into his
hands of events from 1796 to the year 1800; I
asked him repeatedly, if he thought them from the
devil ? Jrle repeatedly answered, No ; do not men­
tion the d evil; there is not a word in your
Writings likely to come from the devil; but
would often ask r e, i f they were not from m yselff
I always told him, they w ere not. Sometimes he
would tell me, they were from the Loan , and
sometimes dispute, and tell me, that my knowledge
came from myself. When 1 assured him they were
not, he would ask me, why I did not publish them
to the world i for if he was called of God, as I 6aid
I was, he would fear no man upon earth. W hen I
told him I wanted the clergy to come forward!, and
they would not; he answered, “ then how can yon
think your calling is of God ? for the Lord never
has a work to do that he could not find instruments
to work by.” In this manner he would encourage me
and discourage me together, to go on and wait,
till the Lord did find instruments to work by.
Twice he asked me, in M r. Taylor’s house, why I
did not bring forward my Writings and have them
proved ; for if I could not get twelve men, I should
get six ; or I should wait till I brought the sword,
the plague, and the famine, upon the land. I told
him I could not prove my Writings without twelve.
He said, if it must be twelve, let it be twelve; I
will meet with six, or twelve. A t the end of 1796,
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
When I put the Prophecy of the Bishop's death i&
his hand, after disputing with me for some time,
concerning the smallness of it and its being trifling,
he asked me again, why I did not prove my W rit- .
ings ? I told him I could not, unless the clergy would
come forward. He said, if you cannot get them, get
others; getsix Jewsand six Gentiles; Ido not carewho
you get, as long as you bring forward your Writing,
and I w ill meet w ith any. I told him if I acted de­
ceitfully, I must be the greatest impostor upon earth.
H e answered, in Mrs.Taylor s presence, do not men­
tion an impostor ; for you are not a bit of an im­
postor, nor do not act like one. I then put the
events of another year in his hands. When I told
him 'M r. Leach said my writings were from the de­
vil, he said do not mention the devil, there is not
in your writings a word that I have seen likely to
come from the devil; and when I went and told
him Sir-Egerton Leigh said they came from the de­
vil, he laughed at him for a fool, 'and said, “ Is
this the great Sir Egerton Leigh ? is this the man
that is-advertised in the newspapers ? strange ideas
indeed, to say your writings are from the devil !’*
H e assured me they were not from the devil; and
he came out after me, when I was going away, to
‘beg that I would not distress my mind, but make
myself easy, for my writings were never from the
d evil; then I knew they must be from the Lord.
Another time I met him in his own church, as I had
appointed to meet him there, when he stopped and
talked with me, after the people were gone out; he
said, “ he bad not-one doubt, but what my writ­
ings were from, the Lord, and he believed-//;* the
w ondboUs w o m an mentioned in the B ib le ; and if
the Lord had a work for him and me to do, in due
time he would do it; but wished me to make my­
self easy far the present.” When I told him I was
going to Bristol, he, to prevent my going there,
went to Chancellor Nutcombe’s, and begged they
( 8 )
Digitized by L j O O Q i e
( a )
would come forw ard to pass their judgment; but
they refused giving any. After I was in Bristol, he
ordered my friends to write to me, to have me
come home, and he would try to bring forward other
ministers, if those that were chosen would not come
forward. I returned home, when he told me to
come to his house, whicii I did. He then asked
me, “ if I would stand to the letter my Brother had
sent him, to give up to the judgment-of twelve?’*
I said, “ yes, sir, to the judgment of twelve I’ll
give up the whole.” He said, “ then I should give
in the names to him, of those who would come, and
put a cross to those who refused.” I put down the
twelve names, and I went to six or seven of them,
and they all promised to come. M r. Pomeroy tried
the clergy, but could not bring one forward with
himself. He then told me, “ he could not compel
men; and if 1 wjuld not give up to the six that
would come forward, my writings must abide to be
proved.” I told him, I would not give up to eleven
men, without the twelve, for that was the command
o f the L o r d unto me. He said, “ then the writings
must abide longer but when he siw the Harvests
of the 1799, and 1800, and I was complaining the
clergy would not come forward, he blamed them
equally with m e; and said, “ you may write for
everlasting ; you may talk for everlasting; you may
preach for everlasting ; but nothing will move them
till fatal judgments come upon them.”
When my Writings went out'in the world, I sent
to five ministers. M r. Pomeroy ordered my W rit­
ings to be opened in the presence of witnesses, (and
one of the witnesses is here present,) I was ordered
to have every leaf written upon, before I had any
of my writings copied off. Then I took out what
was put in print, copied one part, and sent it to
M r. Pomeroy, and wrote to the five clergymen to go
to M r. Pomeroy’s house, and pass their judgment
upon them ; but if the clergy kept silence for seven
Digitized by L s O O Q i e
days, it would be fatal to me if I did not let them go
out in the world ; but if they met together in the
seven days, and proved the writings to be not from
the Lord, they should not go out in.the world. Mr.
Pomeroy met one of the ministers and intreated bim
to come to his house, and bring his uncle with him,
and he would send for. me, when he would shew
them the writings that I had sent him ; but the
minister refused. Mr. Pomeroy had the writings
in his hand seven days. I then told him they roust
go out in the world, and fatal judgments would
fall upon me if they did not. M r. Pomeroy gave
the writings into my!hand>, and confessed he could
not persuade me to run that fatal hazard. M y writ­
ings went out in the wdrld in 1801 ; then my Sister
Carter wrote to Mr-Pomeroy, and begged he would
read a letter to me that.she had sent to him, as I
could not read her hand-writing. Mr. Pomeroy
sent for me and read her letter, she saying my W rit­
ings were from the devil. I said it was as false as her
saying we should, have ho war in 17Q 1, nor any
dearth. He said, it was as wild random talkingasSir
Egerton Leigh’s; and we must wait to see the event of
the Harvest, which was put in his hand. . The har­
vest came perfect as the letter was'put irk his hands.
Then I sent him some of the letters which the cler­
gymen had sent me, and I told him they were com­
ing down to prove the Writings. He said he should
be very glad to.see them, and prove the Writings
with them. .1 said if they were not from the Lord,
I would not let them come so far. He said do let
them come down, forif.it be of God, they may be
the saving of the nation ; if it be not of God, yon
will never be convinced of it till your writings are
proved ; so let them come : And in my heart I was
determined they should come. I then was ordered
to write to thetn to print their letters received from
me, which they did. When these Books came to
-Exeter, I was ordered to send one to M r. Pome-
< 7 )
Digitized by Google
( » )
toy 5 but when he found hra name was in print, the
jealousy of his honour alarmed his soul; he thought
he should be mocked by an unbelieving world, as
the disciples were mocked of old. This he could
not bear; in rage he sent for me, Mrs. Taylor, and
Mrs. Jones, to come to his house; he abused me
for ingratitude, in putting his name in print; as he
had told me before, he would do any thing for me,
if I did not print his name. I said I should not;
neither did i ; but I was ordered they should print
the Letters as they were sent; and I told him it
was the command o f the Loan. He hastily answered,
it was the command of the devil, that is to print
his name; and he turned me from the Sacrament. I
then was strongly influenced to say, his name should
be blotted out o f the Book before Christmas, that
they came to prove the writings; and if they wese
proved hot of God, his name should stand blotted
out for ever; but if they were proved to be of God,
"his name should go out after Christmas. In this
manner I wrote to my friends, who began to blot
out his name, as I had done; and M r. Bruce wrote
Jiim a letter, that they were blotting out his name,
b y his desire. He then came to'Mr. Taylor’s again,
and brought back the ticket for the Sacrament, and
-begged Mrs. Taylor to give it to m e; and said,
■ there was no one in his church he should be more
happy to give the Sacrament to than to me. I was
ordered to go again; and was told before, if be re­
turned the ticket to invite me to come, I should go.
The summer before this, when he gavethe tickets, he
was giving exhortations to the people that came for
them in the church ; but: when I came up, he said,
“ L need not tellyou your duty, fo r you know it alrea­
d y ." But when his name was. put in print, he
thought I was departing from i t ; but after he re­
turned the ticket, and I had been at the Sacrament,
the Christmas day, the gentlemen after came to
•Exeter, and 1 desired them to write to Mr.-Pomeroy.
Digitized by Google
The clergymen wrote accordingly, and he sent back
a letter, that he should be happy to see the gen­
tleman at his house by four o'clock the next day, if
w e Would all promise never to put his name in print
any more. I was in the house when the letter came,
and told them that that request could not be com­
plied w ith; but they might say they should be happy
to see lam upon any other terms to dispute the mat­
ter. W hen this answer was sent to M r. Pomeroy,
he sent his servant the next day to me, to desire me
to come to his house. I went immediately to Mr.
Taylor’s, and desired the clergymen to go with me.
T h e Rev. Mr. Foley and I went before. When he
saw Mr. Foley with me he began to tremble, and
said he did not send for the clergymen; he sent for
m e to come alone. I told him I did not like to
come alone, but wished to clear up all before them.
H e then desired Mr. Foley and me to sit down;
which we did. Soon after the Rev. Stanhope Bruce
and the Rev. Mr. Webster knocked at the door;
the servant let them in, and told him there were two
more clergymen at the door. He then trembled
like an aspen leaf; his legs shook under him as
though he could scarce stand, and looked about
him as if he would have gone through the wall; and
said, “ l can’t see them, I can’t ; I am not prepared
for them, I am not; I did not send for them, I
only sent for you; and I did not think you would
have brought them with you.” I said, I brought
them to have the truth cleared up. For some time
he kept the gentlemen in the passage, till shame
made him ask them to come in ; and said, “ Do
not stay in the passage, gentlemen.” They then
disputed from whence the Writings came. M r.
Foley and M r. Bmce assured him they were from
the Lord. He said he did not dispute it, only in-
treated they would not put his name in print. They
said they would not put that conversation then in
print, but I promised him nothing; so as they caa-
( 9 )
Digitized by Gooie
not, I will, and Mr. Sharp shall cause it to be printed,
for he told Mrs. Taylor himself, that he caused the
copy of his owp letter, that Mr* Sharp returned to
him by his own desire,,to bo read in the public
Coffee-house; and now the conduct .that I acted
upoijj if he cfesired it, might be read in all the Coffee-
ho^ses. After .the gentlemen were returned to
London, he went to Mrs. Taylor’s, and told her
that he was plagued in the Coffee-house and in com­
pany with minister?, who, told him he was the pro­
phet, and wearied him out .of his life, I then wrote
a letter to the Coffee-house in M r. Pomeroy's vin­
dication ; I pleaded every argument I could think
of, that he had said to persuade pie against i t ; I
omitted every word h£ .had said before, that my writ­
ings were, from the Lord, and not from the devil ;
but this I.left out in my letter, and only, put in the
'arguments fhat he .pleaded they, might be from my­
self. The day that I.sent, the letter to the Coffee-
• house, he went to, Mrs. Taylor’? and begged she
would send for,,me. Mrs. Taylor did?end for me.
He began telling me how he was plagued on
my account; and every body was plaguing of him,
that he could not go into ,tbe Coffee-house, without
their tormenting him. I shewed him the copy o f
the letter I, had sept tq1(the Coffee-house ; he read
it; and threw it on thegrpund ..with; fury, and said,
“ f f you do that you will ruin m e; you could not
do a worse, thing thanyo send a letter to the Coffee­
house, to see your name .and tnine stand together/’ I
told him .1 wrote to clear him, that they might not
condemn him. “ Oh,!” said he, “ you have acted
the very way to Ijurt me; I had rather yoq had set m y
house, on fir<;. ,Is this your kindness for all the good
. offices that I have done you ? Not one of the gen­
tlemen have done mom for you than I have;” (andhe
Repeated all thegoodoffices that are heire mentioned;)
*f and how,” said he, “ in return, you are going
to cut my throat.” I told him then I would go to
( 10 ')
Digitized by Google
th e Coffee-house directly, and have back, my letter.
H e said, ‘f do, do go.” I hastily went; but the
servant said the mistress: of tho Coffee-housfe was
g o n e out, and had' gat the letter in. her pocket. I
sen t word to the mistress, that She should not let
th at letter be shewed in the Coffeehouse, but re­
tu rn it to Mrs.-Taylor. The next morning she sent
w o rd she would, and so she did, but she had then
been out upon a visit, 'and had locked it up in her
bureau. W h e a l came back and told him that let-,
ter would not go out,' he took another letter out o f
his pocket, and begged nae to sign to that. I told him
then our names must stand together> the Same ? He
said, yes; •but that would cleat' him,- to say, that he
said it was from the devih Mrs: Taylor 'and I both
told him, he never said it was from the devil. He
said, yes,you know I did, the last time you two and
M rs. Jones were at my house. 1 said, yes, sir, you
Said it Was the devil told me to put your name in
print. 'W ell, says he, that is saying it was from
the devil. However, Mrs. Taylor and I both dis­
puted with him, that was not 6aying my writings
were from the devil. He threw h:mself back upon
the chair and began to cry, “ kill me ! d o ! yoH
will kill me'; you don’t know- how I am situated: ■
have not I ‘got trouble enough, and now will you
add more ?” He again repeated all his good offices
that are before mentioned, and pleaded my ingrati­
tude, that I waS killing of him ; I was setting his
house on fire ; ruining of him; and for all the good
offices he had done for me, I would not do one for
him. I said I would do any thing that Was in my
power* but I would not sign to lies. He said I was
roasting of him first, and putting him. on the-Spit
after ; he intreated and begged of me, as though his
whole happiness, soul and body, depended upon my
signing. Mrs. Taylor and I again expostulated
with him, that he never said my writings Were from
the devil, but always said to the contrary. He argu-
b 2
l 1 1 )
Digitized by G o o g l e
( W )
ed again, you know I said it were -from the devil,
when Mrs.Taylor and you were at ray house. I again
said, true, sir, you said my putting your name in
print was from the devil. He said well, and that is
saying it was from the devil. I said, if that would
make him easy I would sign,to it. He began thank­
ing me as though I had saved his life ; but I was so
fluttered and confused that I scarce knew what I
signed to. Mrs. Taylor .said she was 6ure my writ­
ings were from the Lord; he said be did not per­
suade any one against them, only to pat him out of
the question. The next day I was answered, if he
Ixu that in the Newspaper, I should ptint against
lim. 1 went and told Mrs. Taylor of it ; and Mrs.
yaylor said she was going of herself, to tell him not
to put it in print; that sne could not see it right in
;the manner he had drawn me in to sign, and I said
| did not see it right neither. So M r. Taylor wdd
he would go down to M r. Pomeroy, and tellhhim
what I said. M r. Taylor went down in the morn­
ing, but Mr. Pomeroy was not at home, and they
said he would not be at home till four o'dook. M r.
.Taylor went down again at four o’clock, and told
him I should print against him, if he put it m'prmt,
and I should publish bis name. He said to Mr. Tay­
lor he did not believe it. M r. Taylor told him he
knew I would. Then Mr. Pomeroy desired -Mr.',Tay-
Jor to go to the printer and get it out of the press.
M r. Taylor went to one of the printers, but I think
he said the type was set; Mr. Pomeroy went down
to the other printer, and I think he Said the same.
M r. Pomeroy came to Mrs. Taylor’s and serft for mp
*gaip. As soon as I saw him I was full of fury and
anger; I told him he had made me sign to lies; but
he argued with me from that word. I told him
other things he had put down was not true. He
■ said he would blot out some of them : and so be
did in ihe paper he had got in his pocket; but what
qse was that ? He did npt blot it out >o the JJew%-
Digitized by L , o o Q L e
( 1* )
paper, (hough he bkrttedout many thingsin thepaper
h e had got with Jum, but the Lies stood in the News*
paper, which at that time I understood he wasgoing
to change.. He. said, “ Oh, my dear good woman, do
«ign,-that I said it was from the devil!” He took me
b y the hand, by the arm, and intreated me as though
bis life had stood at stake, that I would deliver him
o u t of that trouble. 1 felt aoger and indignation
rise in my breast. I said well, you said it, and I’H
sign it, that the devil persuaded me to put your
.name in print, but blot out all your other words.
M rs. Taylor said, Joanna, I am afraid it will hurt
yo u r Prophecies. I said, n o : what is of God can­
n ot be overthrown by men; and l know my writ­
ings to be of God, and it is not all the men upon
earth can overthrow them. He said that was true \
and what he was doing could never h.urt them, if
they were o f God ; for, as I said, what was of man
would come to nothing, and what was of God no
man could overthrow. So he went out of the room.
But judge my surprize the next day, when I saw in
the Newspaper, that it was put in fell of lies, in
■ quite-a different manner to what I thought; fcir he
did not blot out of the Newspaper, though he had
in the paper he had with him. 1 then wrote him a
letter in fury, demanded back all my books and
-every letter i had sent him. He brought back my
books to Mrs. Taylor’s. Mrs. Taylor asked him *
where my letters were > He said he had burnt them..
Mrs. Taylor looked at him with astonishment, and
said, burnt them ! He said, yes, be was persuaded to
it. But here I blame myself, that 1 had not imme­
diately demanded of him to bring me back every
letter he had got of mine, and lay them all before
him, and asked him if he could say with a safe con -
science, those writings came from the devil. This
I blame myself; I blame myself I had not demanded
them before I signed tohis paper; for when I found
he had burnt them, I saw he .had acted with the
Digitized by Google
most deceitful and artful prihciple. I trusted to
his honoifr; -but found there was- no honour in him.
I wrote fifth a letter, telling him with what knavery
he had dealt with me. He went to M r. Taylors,
and said I had sent hinv'rhe most severe letter that
ever was penned. Mr. Taylor told him I was full
o f fury, that he had drawn me in to sign, that he
said my writings w erefrom the devil, mid then td Burn
my letters, because they should not appear im prove they
w ere o f God. He said he was persuaded to- do it ;
. and I know it was the devil persuaded him to it; be­
cause' the letters must have condemned them all.
But there my heart reproached me- for fever trusting
to the honour of a man, when I found there was no
iionour in hirrt. I always told him the letters were
.•put in his hinds to be brought forward, fot- me or
against me, and he always promised to kern
them safe for m e; but Oh, what were the egoniesmf
m y soul, when he sent toe word he had absolutely
burnt 'them 1 I could not have felt so much agony,
•if fhey'hld been writings of'gold for ten thousand
•pounds, as I did for the loss of-these letters.-’ I be­
gan to repent my folly too late, that I had not made
him jbrift’g back every letter, before I signed my
-hand to*'airy thingt So I saw I had acted lHce a fool,
and Pomeroy had acted like a knave; but as I did
not suspect any knavery ih* hirrt, I did not;iat first
see my own" folly‘in signing to what I knew he had
said, arid, as he1had declared it would free hihi of all
’
.his nffcety, if I would sign, to clear his- honour,
•as he said;- and that he chose to join with the un­
believing'world, because thfe* clergy and bishop of
Exeter had Said that he joined with me; and so with
them he thought to shine in the honour of the world;
but when his honour Was tried, there was no honour
in him to return my letters ;' neither cduld he plead
one word for himself, only said he was persuaded to
it, and so the devil persuaded him to act without
honour or honesty.' • For-he had letters of mine-of
( 14 )
Digitized by Google
{ » )
Prophecies &om 1798, till the 1 80tv from,ysar tq year,
a n d a true Pcopheqy of himself, which they thought
b y persuading h i ® to burn, wouldpreserve his honour*
a n d stifle his conscience, forgetting there was a. G od
T i y i T . K i J S w a l l t h i n g s ; forgetting .1 had wit­
nesses, that copied off the letters that were sent to
h im , and that I had the original by me in my own
h a n d writing, except one, that I wpuld not lose fora
m illion, of money, and that is a letter I put in M r.
Pom eroy’s hand in 1797, three sheets of paper, fore­
telling the events of that year, and succeeding years,
w h a t would be at the end of the war* of the destiny
t>f England, France, and Spain, the destiny of in­
dividuals as well as the world at large, and the des­
truction of Satan. For he spid, if he must be my Judge
I ought to put the t r u t h s in his hands, and he w ould
b rin g themforw ard, fo r me, or against me. But this
letter being so long, I did not stay to' have two co­
pies, as 1 >yas ordered to put it ,in my own writing
when the year was at an.end; and I went to him to
tead the .letter, he abused me tor putting it in my
own hand-writing, which he could pot read ; but I
said I was come to read the letter to him. He said
you may read what you please, but how do I know
it is true, as I cannot read your hand-writing; there­
fore you may read what you please. Would not the
world-judge me a rascal, if 1 was to put writings in
their hands that no one could read but myself?
W ould they not say I wanted to deceive them ? I
answered, true, sir, if you was to do it, they might
say-, it, because you can write better, bu^ 1 ‘ eannot$
you cap. write as any one may.read, and must dis^
guise your handjt tp put- it as they cannot read ; but
mine ,is in my own hand, and I cannot write any
other ; and I would, not read a false word to you#
sir; for- the world, lie-repeated againy’
olu. might read
what you like, as -1 cannot read your hand-writing.
I .then fuse ivp. in. a. passion, threw my hand with
fury1on hia table, and said,, sir, you judge me worse
3
Digitized by Google
H* ,\
than die W itch of Endor, to think I would mock
God, and deceive man, to put letters in your hands,
to say the Lord saith, and then if the truth does
not come, to prove the Lord hath spoken ; for me
to read lies, to deceive you, and to deceive myself
T o mock God, and trifle with eternity, you must
judge me as bad as the devil. He saw my passion,
he saw my fury; he said, No, he did not judge me
a bad woman; hejudged me a very sober, religious
woman, and he would appeal to my friend. Here
I was glad I had my friend, Miss Bird,with m e; he
called her for a witness, that he had always told her
he believed me a' religious, good woman. Miss Bird
rose and took his part, and said, he had always said
to her, that he believed me to be a religious, good
woman. I answered, he. could not believe me a re­
ligious woman, if he thought 1 would read to him
false. He then desired me to sit down ; saying, if
he believed it that T would read him the truth,
others might not; it was not what he believed; it
was what others believed; but as he did believe I
would read him the truth, I should Come the follow­
ing week and read it to him, as it was then too late,
as he had engaged himself to go out to tea, and
could not stop that evening; it was not for his own
sake, it was for the sake of others, that he wished
the writings had been as they could be read ; for he
was mortified, that when the year was at an end he
brought down the seals to read it to gentlemen, but
he could not read a word of my hand-writing. I
told him, he had every truth in his hand. He said
he wished for the sake of others it had been in a
hand writing that he could read; but lte consented
for me to come the next week and read it to him ;
and I said I would come. He mentioned to me a
chapter in the Revelations, which I shall hereafter
mention, and how it was then explained. The fol­
lowing week I promised to come and read the letter
to him; but when lcam e home I was ordered.not
( i « >
Digitized by U o o Q l e
t o go, as I had proposed; but to write to Mr. Po­
m eroy, and tell him to send back. the. letter, and
w rite upon every leaf, that I might not be able to
deceive him, and he should have it copied'off word
fo r word and the original sent back, and also the
co p y, that he might compare them both toge­
ther : forthis was the w i s d o m o p a G od— “ And the
wisdom of a God Pomeroy shall find it. For if
thou hast roasted him first, thou shalt put him on
the spit at last, that shall run through every soul that
blamed him, and through every soul that condemned
him , for putting his hand to the Gospel Plough,
and then persuading him to fall back; for 1 tell '
them there came the hornets’ nest that stung Po­
meroy. But now let thy Brother, now let thy
younger Brother act like thy elder Brother— put
the fire over the hornets’ nest, and destroy the
hornets that stung him. For though Pomeroy bath
been like Ephraim, a silly * dove, a cake f that is
not baken, and the pride of the Assyrians testify
against him, he hath followed after wind, he hath
followed after the east wind £, and the pride of the
Assyrians testifieth against him : but now shall 1
give thee up ? Oh, Ephraim! my heart is turned
within me, my bowels yearned together! now if
thou returnest unto m e , I will return unto thee; I
will heal thy bacltslidings; I will love thee freely;
if thou returnest unto m e , I will return unto thee :
Oh, how many times have I said unto thee in thy
writings— 1 have said it before, and I tow say it
again, let him turn unto m e , and I will turn unto
h im !”
.“ I Joseph Southcott, Brother of Joanna South-
cott, who thought her Prophecies in the beginning
to' be a religious frenzy ; but when she came into,
my house, in 1798, and read to me many wondrous
things; I said unto her, God knows from whence
your Prophecies are; but I shallleave them to time,
* Hotea, viv 11. t Ho»ca, vii 8. 4 H omo, xii. 1.
C
( 17 )
Digitized by
for I cannot tell; but there is no comer that a man
can drive you up in, but the Spirit finds a gutter-
hole to creep out. So I, confess, I tried to make a
corner to drive her up the closer, and that corner
made the gutter*hole the greater. And I remember
my Sister said to me, her Father had five wise chil­
dren, and one foolish one; or he had five foolish
‘ children and one wise one. M y answer was, I’H
never say that, for if your calling be of God I shall
say you was kept by his power, that no man could
overturn; but not by your own wisdom; for f do not
think your own wisdom a bit better than Sister Car­
ter’s ; but if you stand, it is by the power of God,
that men have ‘tried to overturn, but cannot. In
i 803, when I saw her books, and reflected on all she
had told me before, I was convinced her calling was
of G o d ; and now the world, in calling her an im­
postor, is dealing with my Sister as they would deal
with a harlot; but let them be circumcised accord­
ing to the Scriptures in heart and life, then I will go
forth with courage to meet them; and they may
take my Sister to wife if they have not made them­
selves sore. The 34th chapter of Genesis, which
you must read through, then you will see you made,
yourselves sore by returning the letters. Solook on
me as Dinah’s Brother; for you shall not deal with
my Sister as you would deal with a harlot; for she
laid her cause open before me, and I see my Sister’s
innocence; and her innocence I’ll protect. ' So now
let us reason together; bring forth your arguments,
and shew your strong reasons, why you call my Sister
an impostor and an adulteress ?
J o s e p h S o u t h c o t t .”
F R O M M IS S T O W N L E Y T O M l* . S H A R P .
Sunday Morning, Ju ly 8, 1804.
After this letter, which was written for M r. Foley,
it would astonish, every man to see in what a won­
derful manner the devil broke in upon Joanna, con­
cerning her Brother, wliich made the devil appear
( 18 )
Digitized by Google
V / / J//*.
( JQ X
w o rse than the fire, Joanna was ordered toiiave co-.
p ie d off his words and parables, and the answer of
t h e Lord that was given to them; for the devil had
s a id it was not justice in the Lord, to bring-forth all
h i s Parables against the devil, and the devil not
allow ed to bring forth any Parables himself, to
s e e if he could not conquer by Parables;' as
w e ll as the Lord convince by Parables. So to
d o justice to men and devils, that all might
b rin g forth their arguments, all might bring forth
th eir strong reasons, and all might try their wisdom
t o the utmost, to see if the wisdorti of men or devils
w ou ld overthrow the w i s d o m of the M o s t H i g h ,
th e Lord hath permitted all to act in their own
wisdom : and as the Serpent was permitted to come
and try Eve in the Old Creation, so he is permitted
to come and try the Woman in the N ew Creation.;
fo r the New Creation is now begun, man to be born
anew, and to be taught of God. The Woman as
his helpmate; for his good now standeth in the W o ­
man, the- first in Joanna, then followeth my Mother
and my Sister.
Now to the first will Satan burst,
And to he may appear;
But I'll go on my Biole strong—
The Esther first is here:
That she did free, you all may see,
Her brethren at tnat time,—
But her I leave, though there I cleave,
To shew the work divine.
It was not she; No, it was me
That did her wisdom place;
A Hainan's gallows to prepare,
And free the fallen race:
That then did fall, I tell vouall,
And Hainan's pride did swell;
Because they would not worship he,
H e sweird in pride from hell;
A u d io the callows did prepare,
By cursed empty pride,
T ill Esther's wisdom brought him near,
That ou her bed belied. •
I!cr pardon then he thought to gain,
Which did the King provoke,
. And brought on him, it plain was seen,
His just deserving stroke.
But now [’ll tell my every mind, J
Too late tbey'U wait to see .
C 2
Digitized by
\
( 20 )
T h e wonder* here that must appear^
W h en that thy trial comes on ;
A doubtingfaith will never clear*
I tell thee, of my own.
Then if the righteous scarce are sav'd,
W hose faith do then appear,
I tell you all, the silent grave
Must be for mocker* here.
So I'll end here and say no more
But to the purpose come,
A n d with my Bible this compare—
Then tremble every one.
That now stand* out so full of doubt,
For no* M an* W ife Til free,
That don't believe before the time,
Their death they all shall see;
And every Husband now the same
I'll surely cut them off,
That don't believe before the time—
M y Bible s brought to nought,
1 say, by men that do discern
They may believe so late.
W h en that m y c o m in g doth appear.
M y Bible tells' their fate.
T w o Witnesses here do strong appear,
I tell you, for thqie two,
Taylor and Updcrwood are clear.
The words are spoke by you,
Joanna here that doth appear,
' And Townley for to free.
Between them two let all men know
The Vision thou didst see,'
W h ere loye "was strong, and rage did bprnj
But like the Harvest Day, *
W here men in reaping do appear.
And so the end you ll see;
For I shall come tne Harvest Man
T he whole for to cut down,
But in my Barns the W heat shall come,
Then tremble at the sound;
Because the W eeds i'll make them bleed;
And let the Weeds appear.
For thou must pen the Harvest Men,
For 1 shall end it here."
//3
“ W hen men jwe in the harvest reaping, the heat
pf the day and the quickness of their reaping hooks,
Which they throw into the corn, that cuts down
l&th weeds and wheat, makes them all over
in a perspiration; and my Father, with many other
reapers, often used to go with the collar o f his shirt
unbuttoned, and in that manner that heavenly Vision
Digitized by L s O O Q l e
appeared to me. And now I shall tell you further
o f the husbandman : the weeds lay at the butt-end of
the sheaf, that lieth towards the ground. So when
the husbandman coineth to thrash the wheat and
gathereth into his garner, he takes the sheaves,
and spreads them with a comb in his hand, that is a
pbarp pointed tiling of steel, with a handle to it,
with which he takes and pulls out every weed at the
butt end of the sheaf, which he burneth for stroll,
that the seeds may not go again into the earth.—
Now, as Satan upbraids me with hypocrisy, to con­
ceal the feelings of my heart, because I would be a
man-pleaser; I cannot be a man-pleaser any longer,
but must be plain to the whole w orld, that my hand
is against every man's hand that hath been against
thy hand. And my tongde is against every man’s
tongue that hath been against me. And the daggers
and swords they have placed in my soul it i6 too late
to pull them out, when I am gone to the cold cham­
bers of the grave; for then I shall die, and my sorr
rows will die with me : and every dagger that hath
been placed in ray brfcast must appear before the
Lord in my Father’s Kingdom."
These lines were taken from J o a n n a , w ord
fo r w ord as she sat up in her bed, which she
affirms were spoken by the L o r d , to declare
her heart and soul to mankind, as well as the
mind of the L o r d , to tell all men waiting to
see whether the clouds will burst or not, will
be too late when the storm comes; but he that seeth
the gathering of the clouds, and say there is a sound
of abundance of rain, will prepare himself for the
storm; but he .that seeth the gathering of the
clouds, and say it is only the pride of the mornings
for that the clouds will break off, the floods will nit
come, and say as a man said at Musberry— “ I
Ventured through the first flood, and I will venture
through the s e c o n d b u t when they persuaded him
not, and said the floods were now.gathering too high,
he answered, “ He that is born to be hanged will
' ( *> )
Digitized by Google
( * * )
fiever be drowned,” so with confidence he attempt­
ed to swim through. But he did not happen to be
born to be hanged, as he said; for in that very flood
he was drowned. ' And in like manner it will now
come to all, that judge they were born to be hang­
ed in the same chain they have always been hung
to. But now they will find that great water floods
are coming upon them.
FROM MISS TOWNLEY TO MR. SHARE.
D ear Sib, Monday M orning, Ju ly Qth, 1804.
Joanna says the letter of yesterday was spoken
‘ by the Lord in love and anger, to cut o ff a ll tht
w ithered branches; but if he cast down he will
raise u p ; if he killeth he will make alive all that
now turn unto him. Therefore, she was ordered
to send that communication to be like Deem's salve,
to gather'the wound and break it, and draw out all
the corruption that is there; then the healing fla ts ter
may come after; but if the salve he not applied, and
the corruption draw n out, but lie rankling till hft-
T r i a l ; and say, We w ill w ait and see, they will
only w ait to see their own death. For it is by F a i t h
before the time that every one will then be saved;
for it is their Faith must make them whole. So
they must feel-the wound if they will be healed.
Men have noidea of her T r i a l . “ I have 9imply
thought, as the world thinks, that Wonder was
only my Trance, and when I return from my
Trance I am to tell them wonders from heaven. But
how will unbelievers stand when I return and tell them
not only wonders from heaven, but call forward my
Father’s W ill; and then bid Satan enter the field and
stnswer for himself, from the Fall to this d a y ; an-
Wfrer for all the impudent, ignorant, and provoking
lies he hath said to me against my Lord, against my­
self, against my brethren, my mother, and my
sisters ?—
But how oon T look round the field,
J\nd tell i!ie cursed Foe to vicjtl,
3
Digitized by L j O O Q i e
( 23 )
And go from these that do appear
N o brothers, ^ior no sisters there?
No, then they’ll find it is all too late,
1 tell them plain the door is shut,
For every dagger in my breast,
I tell them plain, that day must burst;
For my forgiveness now is o'er,
I never can forgive one more
That did offend in years are past.
So now they all must go to Christ,
That ever have offended me,
And say, 4
4 M y God, I know *tis thee
4
4Whose Spirit I so much did grieve,
4
4Because thy words I ne'er believ'd,
4
4That they were spoken by a G od;
4
4 But now 1 tremble at thy rod,
4
4 And now thy mercy I'll implore,
4
4That I may fill mv Lamp once more,
4
4Before 1 hear the Midnight C ry !
4
4I f l am shut out then I shall die,
4
4Therefore to Heaven I’ll now complain#
4
4Too long I’ve trifled here with men,
4
1Until I see my pardon past.
4
4Hath God forbid them at the last
4
i Never to forgive me more?
4
4 Then if my Judge stands at the door,
4
4 And I have not his favour then,
441low shall I tremble to come in,
4
4T o see a God in fury burst,
4
4 In Spirit strong where I have plac’d
4
4 Such swords and daggers heretofore.”
She saith her pardons all are o’er,
And at her T r ia l when it do come
She’ll slay her foes, it shall be known,
Unless they make their peace with God,
So let them tremble at his rod."
Now Joanna saith, it was many days agone that
she was told, that no one should ask her pardon for
the offences they had done unto her, by despising
her Writings, for all the offences were done to the
Lord; and when her T rial appears, she must
come forward with all the daggers they had placed
in her breast. After that she dreamt that she had •
killed the devil; and her right breast was filled full
of skivers, which she pulled out every one of them ;
for they were in bunches; and she looked to see if
there were any left, but found there was not one
left, but saw afour-square place, like a grave, in her
breast; and there Joanna saith, the world have
brought her with their cursed ingratitude; for she
'*} ' ' *
Digitized by G o o g l e
will freely die a martyr by any tortures men can put
her to, if they can bring before her that man or that
woman that is now upon earth, and as an earthly
being, can say and prove he hath acted with a more
just or upright principle than she hath towards God
and towards man.— “ For I may say with David,
my upright dealings see. And now I will challenge
all men upon earth, that they cannot bring before
me an earthly being that hath acted so much for the
glory of God and the good of mankind as I have.
But not I : it is the grace of God that hath strength­
en:d me, through Christ Jesus. Then now let the
world bring forth bis fellow; for it is the Lord that
speaketh ; not J o a n n a S o u t h c o t t as a simple wo­
man of herself; for Joanna confesses boldly to the
' world, she hath nothing to boast of but her own in­
firmities ; a woman that is nothing; a woman that
' knoweth nothing; a woman that can do nothing
without C h b i s t strengthening her. And now the
decree is gone forth from the Lord, that every un­
believing husband, that hath provoked a believing
w ife ; and every unbelieving w ife, that hath provoked
a believing husband, must now go to God fo r pardon;
fo r the husband cannot save the w ife, nor the w ife the
husband, no other way. than this : Read this Letter
before them, and tell them that every dagger they
have placed in their breasts as believers, Joanna
saith, they have placed them doubly in her breast; and
i f the husband w ill fo rg ive the w ife, and the w ife would
jo rg ive the husband, where unbeliefhath placed thedag­
gers, Joanna saith, they have placed them doubly in her
breast; and her heart is bolted, her door is bolted, and
they cannot enter any other way but by going to their
closets, by making prayer and supplication to the L o r d .
before the door o f mercy be shut against them by the
L o r d , as it is now shut by m e; for I am full of the fury
of the Lord, to be a consuming fire unto all. Then
let them go to Christ, that is a Mediator between
God and Man.”
( 24 )
Digitized by b o o g i e
/S A S p ,'V // t
( 25 )
A D R E A M O F M R . S O U T H C O T T ’S.
Sunday Nighty Ju ly If/, 1804.
I thought myself in a large wood, that I had
t o go through in my way to Burton Pynsent, a Seat
ib Somersetshire, belonging to the Earl of Chat­
h a m ; the thicket on my right hand seemed im­
passable, and close on my left was a river of cleat
water, but so full that at many places it overflowed
its banks; and the path between the wood and the
river was so very narrow, that I was often forced to
craw l as it were on my side, so the cloaths on my
left side were quite ;wet; yet I thought the water
d id not touch my body. I at last got into the path
that led across the wood, in the midst of which 1
cam e to a large mount that I had to go over; but
to my great surprize, I found it hollow beneath,
and I thought I saw some one 1 knew.. W e entered
into conversation, and I found by him that this sub­
terraneous cavern was inhabited by a banditti of
thieves who lived by plunder; and I thought their
greatest traffic was in horses, asses, and pigs, which
they stole, not only in the neighbourhood, but their
trade was extended to different parts of the king­
dom ; and some were employed in stealing,and others
in manufacturing of the carcasses and hides within
this place. A t last 1 got in, and saw a great many
at work, both men and women; some digging out
o f the cavern, which seemed full of roots and sand ;
at the bottom was solid rock of stone. It filled me
with horror, and I was" exceedingly terrified; but
my whole intent was to -have them all taken, yet
was afraid they should find out my intention and
kill me. ' However, I gOt out, but’was not satisfied,
and wanted to sec more before I gave the informa­
tion. 1 then thought I met my wife^ who went with
m® to the door with a lighted candle m her hand, and
lighted me a little way in, till I1said f knew thc- yt‘a.y1
through very well. 'She. shut the door and left hae."
D
Digitized by
( 2d )
I was greatly afraid and terrified to think w h ere I
was, but determined to go on. In the bottom p a r t
I saw a number of swine that the women were fe e d ­
ing. I passed several who looked at me, but n o
one molested me. I thought I saw an arched w a y
across the dome, which I had not seen before. I
ventured up, though very steep and rugged. W h e n
I got near the top, I thought it was all hollow u n d e r
me,and I could look down and seethis banditti at th eir
different employments; some were killing those beasts
they had stolen, others were tanning their hides, a n d
others were making soup. Just here I met Miss T o w n -
ley, which I was very glad of. W e had not been lo n g
together before wc saw two boys coming across w ith
two pans of soup; one of them had a large piece
of pork in it. Miss Townley was very curious, am i
wanted to question the boys, which she d id ; but
they evaded her questions a long time ; but at last
Miss Townley said, one of them had told her some­
thing of importance. I said I had seen enough, and
was determined to have them taken. Miss Townley
asked me what I meant to do ? I told her I would
go to the commander of a regiment, and get soldiers
enough to surround the whole place, so that not one
of them might escape. She thought it veryadviseable,-
and we went out. Just as we got without the door,
we had to turn to pur, right hand ; but the way we
had to pass was terrible beyond description. I said
to Miss Townley, you see, madam, what you have
to encounter; and if you mean to undertake it, be
resolute and not die ip the middle. She said she
was not afraid in the least, and asked fur my arm.
W e had then to pass a most tremendous rock, at
the top of which was water that ran down over it.
However climb it we must, and pass over the top
of it, that was so narrow that no one could stand
upon it alone, I thought we got up very well, and
I took hold of Miss Townley’s left arm, with both,
my lands, and walked along, the crags of die rock,
Digitized by
/ // i/ s s s / fc s s v fr s cA ^ ss/t*
(•' v )
whilst M m Townley walked, or rather climbed along
the narrow top of this dreadful precipice. However,
shedid it very heroically, and we got quite safe over.
W e then went on, and I thought we got into a path
that I knew led us out of the wood, and in my ima­
gination I saw a large gravel walk before us. W e
went on till we came-to a house, where we enquired
if we were in the right road; but were told we were
not, andthat we must go back. I told Miss Town-
ley I knew I was right, and that these people be
longed to the den of thieves, and were afraid wc
should betray them. However we went back, and
I thought I saw a hdrse I knew to have been stolen,
which made me very eager to get away, as I had
such strong prbofs of their villainy; apd I was going
to fetch the soldiers, I thought I met my child
Susan, who had in her hand some numbers of a
publication of the New Testament. At that time-
a genteel elderly looking man came out of this place,
i seemed afraid of him, lest he should think* I was
going to inform against them, and that he would
kill m e; but he seemed equally alarmed, and came
very civilly to us, and asked what we had got ? I
told him the numbers mentioned above*. He took
some o f-them, and either by design or accident left'
his gloves in my hand, which 1 could not account'
for, not knowing if he meant it as a bribe; or n ot;
but on rite buck of one of them was printed in Ro­
man letters, H en r y W ilso n, f thought I got
back into that horrid place again ; but just as I got
within the first passage, I stopped to listen, before
I ventured to go through that long and dreary pas­
sage I had before gone through with Miss1Townley ;
and whilst I stood there, 1 heard, I thought,
somebody coining in. I looked, and saw coming
in at the door a large, fierce looking,' ugly dog.
He passed me, and went to the entrance of the pas­
sage I had to go through, as if to defy my going
that way, I went to drive him out, but lie ilew at
a 2
Digitized by Google
me, but did not touch me. I struck him hard on
the head; he then ran at a small dog I had with m e.
I followed him, and again struck him hard •ani-' the
head, and drove him out. Here I awoke greatly
terrified and agitated.
( 28 )
COPY OF A LETTER SENT TO THE REV.
MR. POMEROY.
Rev. Sir, July 5th, 1804.
Conscience and honour as a Christian and a .Bro­
ther to Joanna Southcott, demands me to take her
part; for I may say with David. is there not cause
enough, when I see my Sister, in every thing she
has kid before me, appear clear and innocent; but
from the advertisement you put in the paper in
1802, signifying she had signed that you had affirm­
ed her writings were from the devil, which my Sister
declares to me you never said; but, that you said,
her putting your name in print was from the devil.
Although I understand you took an unfair advan­
tage of what you wheedled her to supi, and said in
your advertisement, she had acknowledged you had
condemned the whole of her writings as from the
devil, which the world now condemn her as guilty
of. Now to clear my Sister’s injured honour, I must
demand all the letters she has sent yo u ; as she tells
me you promised her- to keep the letters faithfully,
that she put in your hands year after year ; and you
promised herthey should be returned, as they might
appear either for or against her. And now, sir, as
a gentleman of honour, I trust you will act with
honour in this; for, as she has no Husband
or Father on earth to protect her, therefore it is my
duty, as a Brother, to stand in their stead. I ipust
reason with you as a gentleman, as a husband, as a
father, and as a brother. How would you stand and
Digitized by G o o g l e
( n J
see a sister’s character injured without demanding
justice t and all the justice my Sister wants of
you, is to return her the letters you promised faith*
fully to keep, and safely to return to her. She says
if you had not promised it, the letters would have
been put into the hands of others, and not into yours.
'She tells me, that in 179 7, you asked her to put
in your hands the events of the wars, which she
did; but depended so much on your honour of re­
turning them, that she never keptthe copy; formySis-
te i says she confesses you gave h erroast meat aridbeat
her w ith the spit after * . I must confess I think you
still believe her writings from the Lord, although as
st man of the world, you do not like to own it ;
yet I hope there will be a time when you will pie*
fer the happiness of your immortal soul to that' of
your mortal body, and that you will, like Judas, re­
turn and say, I have sinned in that 1 have denied and
betrayed this innocent woman. I have only to add,
that' I hope I shall not be obliged to trouble you
again for the writings, or I shall be under the ne­
cessity of putting the law in force against you.
I am, sir,
Very respectfully, yours, &c.
(Signed) J o seph S o'u t r c o t t *
N o. g , Trinity Street, Bristol,
/
M IS S T O W N L E Y T O M R . S H A R P ,
S ir ,
Y o u are desired to print the following circumstan­
ces. On Sunday morning, July 15, 1804, Townley,at
eleven o’clock, went to Joanna and found her very un­
happy about those whose faith was always waver-?
in g ; as words were said to her, that the devil had
* Alluding to an expression made as? of by Mr. Pomeroy to
Joanna.
Digitized by L i O O Q l e
( s o }
worked b.y instvrirtYents,ahd the instruments he had
worked by, the-Lord would cut off as the branches ;
therefore, shefearedfor all tbatdid not now stand linn
to their faith—i-and then the Lord would cut off .the
devil as the root... She. complained of beirig very
faint, and said she was ordered to call for beer in­
stead of wine, as the,six days were over-. She kept
lament!rig to Townley how many wavered in their
faith, and when, she brid emptied her glass, she
cried out with hasty words, “ The Lord would break
all those, who went from their faith in pieces, like
this glass.” W ith these words, she flung away the
rummer, and it w^s dashed:into shivers, and some.of
it almost as small as,if it had been pounded. Townley
Wjis then standing close to the bed-side, and though,
looking at her, it went with such swiftness, that she
did not perceive it till the noise alarmed her. W hen
Miss Taylor cafne from church, she was astonished
at seeing the glass; broke into such small pieces. Jo ­
anna then asked for another rummer to shew; Miss
Taylor how she did it ; and without any design of
breaking it, she. suddenly felt her arm lifted with
fury, and flung it like the former, • and broke the
last much nearer. the foot. On Monday mornings
she received a letter from Exeter, which informed
her she would have Mr. Jones’s answer about M r.
Pomeroy in the evening : and her fears fbr him flung
her into a violent agitation; every nerve in her shook,
and she felt siek, as though she would have fainted
away. ShpcQuld not keep in her bed, but laid her­
self on the floor in agonies, and said she knew not
whether to pity or condemn him ; but at last got up
in a rage against’’ the devil, and said her rcveftge
would be sweet, to ^ e the devil chained down, and
she should like, -W h a sharp sword, to cut him in
pieces. She tlieh got into bed, exclaiming against
the clergy, and asked for a glass of wine ; but she
brought it up immediately. Soon after the bason
was set upon the bed, she took it up and dashed it
Digitized by L , o o Q l e
l/# \
v ^ y
violently across the room, and broke it to piece*.
After that she had some lomb brought up for her
dinner; she tried to swallow a mouthful, but could
not, •but spit it into another bason ; and said “ she
could neither swallow the wine nor the lamb, but
found the fury of the Lord break in upon her,” and
she dashed the second bason on the door. She then
said, “ she felt herself happier and easier since she
had broke both the basons; for so wiuld the Lord, ire
his anger, break the clergy.” In the evening she
received the letter from Mr. Jones, informing her
that Mr. Pomeroy would not listen to him, but cal*
led Joanna a liar, and sakl she was deranged, and*
was as mad as a March hare; and that he had
burnt the stu ff she put into his hands, and would'
not hear Mr. Jones. W hen this letter was read
to Joanna, the fury of the Lord broke in im­
mediately, and lasted upon her near an hour, ex­
claiming^ that as her fury was against Pomeroy,' so
would the- Lord's anger and fury bum against him
and the clergy. She had a miserable, restless night.
This morning she waked Very sick and ill, and could
not tako any thing; but had such dreadful reachings
and convulsions in her' stomach, that she thought
every hour would be her last, and that it was1 im­
possible for her to live through the day in such'
agonies; but was answered, her sickness was not unto'
death: but as sick as she was, the Lord was as sick’
of the clergy ; and H e would not remove her s ic k ­
ness till she had promised to make the Conduct o f
the clergy and Pomeroy public to the world, and till
her Brother had written to Pomeroy ; then het sick­
ness should be removed*. About one o’clock she
called for sonic wine, but her sickness returned ; and_
in the midst o f it she cried :d u t,4
< Their feast days,'
I-'hate them, and will not smell' in their solemn as-*
semblie*— take away from me the noise of their mu-’
sic, for I will not hear the tnelody o f their voice t-
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
C 30 );
for as sick asJosnoa was of the wide she had drank
and brought up, so sick is the Lord of the cler­
g y’s taking the Sacrament in memory of hint, when
they are crucifying him daily.” This sickness con­
tinued all the day, and about eight o’clock. she was
taken with a violent shivering, which alarmed us alii
W e covered her up as warm as we could, and sent
for some warm mulled wine. She looked on the
floor, and Said she saw a Vision, and the most beau­
tiful one she had ever seen. She first told us, shesaw a
circle of fire before her eyes, and then said the fire
seemed to extend with large rims as of gold, and
candles burning in the midst, and placed along the
side of the waif; and one large candle appeared at
the door, which burnt with sparkling light*. The
beauty of it, she says, is impossible to describe.
After seeing this Vision,, she had another shivering
fit, which alarmed both her and us. She then took
a little mulled wine, which threw her into a vio­
lent perspiration and took away her pain- W e sat
wiping the perspiration o ff her face, which con­
tinued almost the whole night. About eleven
o’clock Townley thought she fell asleep, and wax
afraid of moving about the room, lest she should
awake her ; at last Joanna spoke, and tbld Townley
she had not been asleep, but felt perfectly happy
and comfortable, and had been communing with,
the Spirit. A t twelve o'clock the watchman sprang
his rattle under our window, and heard the fire-
bell. The. watchman said, the fire was towards
Milk-street. Underwood looked, out at the back
window, and saw a fire,; which appeared at some
distance from us. ■W e 'then, heard the alarm drum ,.
that beat for .a considerable time. This morning,
Wednesday, Ju ly 18) upon £nquiry, ,we find the
fire was in -St. Prfliliip’s, and,, had broke out in a
building for distilling turpentine for the spirits;
and the fire was owing to aflaw in the still. This-ia.
the account ws have heard of the fire.
Digitized by G o o g l e
' ( *» )
THE ANSWER OF THE SPIRIT.
Then now I’ll answer all—
Every shadow weigh together,
And discern from whence the call.’ . •
T h e Vision first to thee was plac'd,
W here the bright Sun was seen, .
Like the bright fire encircled round,
Appear'd to thee within;
But cloudl around to thee were found,
And clouds thou there didst see,
That then did press thee to thy bed,
And so ’tis kuown to me,
In grief thou’rt press’d, the clouds do burst,
T h e outer rim appears; -
A n d so into thy bed thuu’rt cask
W ith every suffering here—
That is for man— it will come on,
Their sorrow they will see.
T h e sickness that in thee did come
Is a shadow deep o f me,
*fhat I am come, it must be known,
So sick of all mankind,
That now my Bible do disown.
The Wom an ne'er wiH find,
Cloth’d with the Sun to have her coma
My Shepherds do deny;
Therefore, 1 shall them all unthrone,
M y fury soon shall fly ;
Because within the Sun was seen
Like fire for to appear:
T hou’st felt the shadow of thy dream
T o have the clouds appear;.
And thou should’st die was then thy cry,
Thy sickness so was fix’d.
But know, within the Sun was seen,
Then so it now must burst;
The Fire to burn in thee must como
As it did then appear.
Y ou’ve seen the shadow of the OiKW
But necr discern’d it here;
Though unto men the Vision earner
But they did ne’er discern
The clouds that over thee did hdng,
T o make the fire to burn.
So thou didst call ip vaiu to all,
As in thy dream to be;
Thou feel’st the wonders there did (all,
And ask’d if they could see
The shadow first how it was plac’d?
Thou know’st, they answer’d no:
These miracles they could not trace,
Nor ne’er discern’d them so,
M
Digitized by Google
That on thy bed thou must be laid,
A sufferer for mankind; -
Because in thee they all must see
M y sorrows l do find;
In Spirit here I do appear
Wounded and griev'd for man;
T h e agonies that are in thee,
They'll find in ME are strong. ,
W ith grief oppress'd my heart doth burstr
T o see how men must fell;
I cannot screen them at the last,
I f now they’ll join with hell.
So H I go on from what thou'st done
W ith Satan to dispute,
And then I'll send thee out to men .
T o make them all stand mute.
I f they would come with thee to join*
And ndw my Bible see,
It must be in the W oman's form
Your Conqueror I must be.
80 I’ll go on from man to man:
Unto the glass appear;
T w as 1 that threw it from thy hand
In rdge and fury there;
Because l knew how things would go,
T h e way they'd me provoke;
And then my fury they will know,
T o bring on them the stroke.
T h e branches here that do appear
Enrag’d by Satan's hand,
They'll find’front me they all must flee.
And like the glass to stand,
T h a t’s broken there, they must appear.
For so I’ll break them all,
T h e second time, you know my mind.
The second glass mustfall.
For Satan here the same must share,
And feel his fell like man;
For the Creation now I’ll clear.
And bring the Promis’d Land,
I sav, to men that do begin
T o wish MY Kingdom near.
But for the glasses that were seen,
Let men and devils fear; v
For I’ll go on as thou st began,
Udtirthe whole I’ve broke..
Therefore tp men. I’ll tell them plain,
T is noW too late to mock.
T h e basons next 1now shall fix:
That Type goes deep for m an;
Because that there thou didst appear
T o have the wine to come; •
Far sick within thou didst begin;
v And I am kick the same,
( 34 )
Digitized by Google
7
i/ A / t/ o / s
( 35 )
T o see the way my Blood is drank*
In memory of my Name,
W h en they despise my every love
And now despise my fame.
T o have m e come their Priest and King,
Their Saviour to appear*
The powers of darkness-to chain down*
And bring ,my Kingdom here.
Bat this to man they do disown,
My Bible they deny;
Then like thy hand they'll find M
E stand*
And make the shards to fly.
The Potters clay, to thee I say.
In pieces 1 shall break;
Mv passions shall arise like thee
Though men may judge me weak;
Ls^ke thee to do, can I go through^
The reasoning of mankind ?
Thou breakM the basons that were two^
In pieces both did find,
In fury here from thee appear’d —
Shall I go on the same,
And break in two, mankind to know*
That npw despise my N ame?
The Jews at first, 1 there did bursl
And broke them off from me;
But now the Gentiles at the last
W ill more fatal ruin see.
Now mark the day, to thee I say,
Thou brok'st the basons tw o;
And Pomeroy’s answer came that day;
He acted like the Jews:
Sbo now the two, before mv view,
W ill shortly feel their fall;
For sick as death, thou mayVt expreft
The following day thy call,
For to appear and shew them here.
How sick I am of man;
Their conduct 1 can never bc^r,
'To let them thus go on.
Now in the night, bring to. thy sight,
Cold shivers then hadst two;
And so to man it now shall come,
Their sIdvers they shall know.
The TVpe from tlrcc let all men set,
l or here the T ype must come.
And from the basons all shall see
How furious I'll break men.
For though 1grieve one that I lore
T o place the T y p c f°r ;lH»
The cause I surely shall remove.
And make the iand to fall. *
The shadow there that did .appear.
W ith light and fire to burn,
x 2
/<
L
1
Digitized by Google
36 *
As (hough the candles placed were.
And sparkling fire did1
come
In ringlets there that aid appear.
But mark Nthat follow’d next:
T h e midnight hour did then appea^
' The watchman’s rattle was fix'd,
1 tell you near, yOu all dfd bear,
'A n d fife did then alarm;
And suddfcta as this did appear .
Your dangers will*come on.
T he drum and bell, you do know well,
• Alarm’d them at the time,
T o see the spirits inaflatne,
A warning to mankind.
T he Shadow’s deep, the T y p e is grefc^
I f you the!T ype can see: '
So if yonr spouts begin to leak,
Your *flamc8 will mine that way.
Until you burn, ye simple men,
■Tour spints all away.
I tell you like that midnight dream
The'fh*stt
hi her you see,
That did appear so cloudy litre,
. And clotras O
n her did cbme,
Oppress’d to die, you heard her cfy
That death must be her doom ;
Then now your land see how it stands—*.
T h e substance deep is htete.
The rattle came, be it known for mao,
W hen thou judged death was near, *
For thee to die, nF fell 'thee why,
T h y spirits they’d 'su
n
k1dw j
So sick within, thou didst begin*—
And spirits I 'let go
T o be a flame aud t<
1 consume
T h e spirits fbt mankind.
1 tell you all this is a call.
A shadow deep you’ll find.
That it will break and you may sink
T o see your spirits btfrn,
Kindl'd in flame, do you discern,
N o water there can coiAe j .
N o : spirits*burn, it must’W Vnbwm
T ill flames consume the hbdle.
Then tremble now, ye sons Of mtoi
Y«Kir haughty priae let ‘fell.
But as to thee, I’ll never free
T o raise thee from thy bed,
Until the shepherds wounded be
That they nave Me betra/d.
W orse than the Jews, hear ye the
You stubborn Gentile*- b e ;
T ell how tbedeVgy ME refuse,
Andthed FlTsnsWaf (b e ^ .
Digitized by Google
/
t i
• Wednesday* Ju ly the 18th, 1804.
A s I, Joanna Southcott, am upon a sick bed,
and am informed that the Lord will never restore
rne to health before I have publicly declared to the
world what daggers the ministers have placed.in my
breast; 1 now must answer thousands and tens of
thousands,and have often thought, ifl were inTurkey
I shouldfind more humanity amongst the prieststhere
than I have found in England. In the first place I in-
treated them, as though my soul and body depended
upon their advice toknow from what Spirit my writings
came; yet they refused to give it; or even to hear
me. But the Uev. M r. Pomeroyheard me with every
attention, assuring me that my writings were not from
the devil, desiring me to put the events of years ia
to his hands, promising, whenever my Trial camc,tQ
bring the letters for or against me. Here he acted, as.
I thought, like a wortlxy minister; and though I was
ordered to send him a letter, that if he acted faith*
lessly he would act like. Judas; yet I had no idea
that he would; because I was ordered to put the
letters in his hands. But as soon as his name was
made public, the clergy kept on plaguing him till
they,made him advertise that my writings were from
the devil; and he said that he could not go out of
doors without doing it. After that I wrote to him to
give me up my letters; but no tongue can describe
my astonishment or what I felt, when he returned
for answer that he had burnt all my letters. This
"appeared to me the deepest of aiisi and the blackest
of crimes; as he well knew that every letter I had
put into his hands must appear, to convince the
world that my writings were, not from the devil.
He knew they must appear to my honour, and to
his own disgrace; for-had the letters been, against
me lie. would gladly have returned them. T h is
/node me write him a letter, telling him what black
arts he had used to murder my character, and four*
Digitized by Google
( 33 ) .
<1er my peace; and that he had burnt the letters t a
conceal his own want of judgment; because ho
knew the letters were in niy favour, and against him ­
self. After tills he went to M r. Taylor’s, and told
M r. Taylor 1 had written him one of the severest
letters-that ever was penned. M r. Taylor,told him
it was for his not returning my letters. He said that
he was persuaded to bum them. How far that is
tme 1 must leave. If he did it by persuasions from
the clergy, I must say that they murdered his cha­
racter, and the peace of his mind; for it is not in
the power of all the men upon earth to clear M r.
Pomeroy’s character, that he acted either consistent
as a minister or a gentleman, as a counsellor or a
man of honour— or I will say the. meanest shop-boy;
For now I will suppose a shop-boy‘has got large ac­
count-books, that he had kept for his master; sup­
pose tlie debtors make intercession with the boy, and
say they will be his friend if he will burn his mas­
ter’s account books, and publish to the world no
man' owed him any thing; and so the boy leaves
his master; how could that boy shun the laws of
men ? Then Pomeroy’s crime is of much weightier
consequence, because lie has kept back the things
that were of God, to prove the calling was of God,
by the troths that followed. But here I shall leave
him,and only say,my soul come not thou into hisse-
erets: how canhe speak peace to hisownconscience?
Had I ever acted with such artful, deceitful, and
wicked principle, I never could enjoy one hour of
my life* Then how can the judgment of such.a
man Wt true ? For he appears to me in the perfect
language that he now says I appear to him.
Now I shall come to another minister, which was
M r. Leach, a methodist parson, who had that self-
confidence of his own wisdom as to tell me, in 1793*
that not a word more of my writings would come
true ; and 4 should go to the Lord in his name and
tell the:Lord, that he said they were from the devil.
Digitized by ( g o o g l e
< 3» >
This self-confidence shewed me that he made him­
self more than a man, and boasted as though he
•were a God of knowledge, which I should think no
earthly object would dare to d o : and those object*
that have dared to do it have every one erred, as the
Jew s did; for when they were self-confident that
our Saviour was not the Son of God, and said, “ Hfc
blood be on Us and our c h i l d r e n i f their sclf-con-
fidence was true, why do the clergy bring us to the
Gospel ? If their self-confidence was wrong, why
do our. clergy boast in the same confidence, exer­
cising themselves in what they know nothing about *
and what they have no desire to know any thing
about ?
And now I- shall come to the other clergy. When
my writings were examined by the seven gentlemen
at Exeter, several clergymen were invited to come
forward, but they all refused. Previous to my
writings being proved at Paddington, the bishops
and clergy were invited, by private letters and in'
the public Newspapers, to come forward and judge
for themselves; but they refused by the same
haughty,- vain conceit, thinking they knew every:
thing, when I shall prove they are blind and know
Nothing. On the twenty-second of M ay, Miss
ToWnley was ordered by the Lord, through me, to.
send out letters t’o warn the bishops and clergy ;
and afterwards was ordered, through me, to write
again to the bishops, to say that if they would come
forward themselves, or send twenty-four minister*
from different dioceses, to meet the twenty-four
chosen by the Lofd,. to examine my writings with
them ; and if die twenty-four ministers could | rove?
that my writings were not from the Lord, they should
be given up to their judgment. This fair and ge­
nerous offer was refused also. So whether tens of
thousands were going wrong on the one hand, being
believers tliar my writings come from the Lord,
looking for and hastening to the coming of the Lord
Digitized by Google
{ )
Jesus Christ, of whether on the other hand tens o f
millions, through unbelief and ignorance of this vi­
sitation, were going to destruction, and the day of
the Lord came upon them unawares to cut them
oft; like a thief in the night, or like the days of
Noah and Lot, to fall upon them, it is all one to
the bishops and clergy,while they are fed asfat horse*
at the fu ll; and while they can have the fleece they
care not what becomes of the sheep. This is Joanna
Southcott’s opinion of the clergy; and by experi­
ence can prove it true; for I now speak boldly to
the whole world, never such wondrous things came
to any woman upon earth, nor such wondrous truth*
ever followed without coming from the Lord of Life
and G lory; and he that denieth them must deny his
•Bible. But the Jews never, with more confidence,
rejected the Gospel and our Saviour’s coming in the
Body, than the clergy 'now reject the fulfilment of
the Gospel and his coming again in the Spirit. T h e
letters were returned by the ministers with such in^
famous and blasphemous language, as though the
devil had either guided their hands or hearts. For
such letters, from men that were wonhy the name of
men, I should think could never be penned; for
many of the expressions are so low, illirerate, and
indecent, that it appears to me what we call ih De­
vonshire Billingsgate Language. Then has not our
nation reason to tremble, when their teachers are
blind guides, their priests are polluters of the sanctu­
ary ? Woe unto them that go in to them ! Are
they not weighed in the balance and {bund want­
ing ? Are not my writings true ? Were they not
from a God who searcheth the heart arid trieth the
rfcins of the children of men, who shewed me in
I79 2, what a black veil was round the ministers*
hearts ? Are they not as our Saviour said, dumb
dogs that cannot bark ; blind leaders of the blind ?
Then have you not all the ditch to fear ? Are they
_ hot hirelings that care not for the sheep ? Then come
Digitized by Lj O
O
Qie
( 41 )
to the truth of the gospel, and confess the words of
our Saviour to be true, when he saith, he alone is
the good Shepherd that careth for his sheep; and
his sheep know his voice, and they follow’ him where­
soever he goeth, but a stranger they will not follow:
And what a stranger must l be to the Gospel, to
follow such men, whose hearts appear to me as
black as the coats they wear ! And well they might
be ashamed to sign their names ; but how scandalous
and ridiculous in ministers to do things they are
ashamed to own ? I have done nothing I am asham­
ed to own ; but publicly sign my name to all I say
and do ; and have strong grounds for all I say and
do. If there are any noble-spirited ministers that
are ashamed of such conduct in the clergy, and
judge with me it is not becoming ministers of the
Gospel of Christ, I will not condemn the innocent
with the guilty, nor the just with the unjust. I hope
there are some who have not bowed their knees to
Baal.
W e three, who have signed our names, are witnes­
ses that this came from the mouth .of Joanna
Southcott.
Thursdayy Ju ly the 1Qth, 1804.
As soon as Joanna’s opinion and sufferings of the
ministers were written, she was told she should not
be answered till they were sealed up to send to the
press to be printed; and when they were sealing, she
said she felt as though something was bursting with­
in her, which threw her into tears, and threw all
her bowels into pain.--
“ Now Joanna, thou bast ended,
Then to reason I’ll begin:
Every dagger thon hast m
ention'd
In my heart $ plac'd by m
en*
J ane T ow^ i-e y ,
F r a n c e s T a y l o r ,
A nn U nderw ood.
f
Digitized by C j O O ^ l C
( « )
At the firsft the Jew» did bunt,
Like Pomeroy to appear;
For many Jews came at the first*
And did me follow there,
T ill other men with them began
T o make them mock my word;
A n d so by Pilate this was seeg;
H e tint believ'd his Lord
W as in the sound, that did abound,
W h at he from m e did bear}
A n d now to Pomeroy I shall come.
A nd fix the likeness there.
H e said from hell no man could tell
T h y Writings ever came}
But if it was not from thyself,
From heaven he said’t must comew
Can he deny this is a lie,
And stand before his God ?
I tell him, n o : the words are true;
H is words to me are know’d ;
fo r standing by, 1 now do say,
I always heard the m an;
A n d much like. Pilate, now I say,
His conduct here, hath been.
Striv'd to release, if 'twas in peace,
His conduct sure hath been.
Mark how to Nutcombe he $id g o ;
His ways to me were seen; ‘*
A n d after there he did appear
T o try the Priest once more;
But then they all refus’d to hear,
And bolted every door*-
Against the then they did begin,
And Pomeroy sought in vain:
So like the Jews they heard the new*.
Y e stubborn sons of men,
W h en my disciples did appear
W h o truly love m y n a m e ,
Y our hearts by hell then bolted ^ere,
And set your rage in dame} . ’
Against the man you did begin
Your fury for to shew.
A nd when your tumult it was seen,
Then Pomeroy’s heart, I know, ’
Did soou begin, to me was seen,
Like Pilate tp appear.
Because no courage in the man,
His G od the most to fear; .
N o, ’twas to man, ly me was seen,
He surely fear'd them most;' ? 1
And though I warn’d him in ad&pupi
M y murderer he was plac'd,
I f he went on for to trepan, * . ■
»
A Judas^to deny, •
A Pilate here for to appear-~r
Men-plcasers now must d ie; -
Digitized by Google
43 i
For though the first in him did burst
Like Pilate to appear,
They now must see the man is cast.
Though thou like death art here.
H ow can I free the Type in thee
T he likeness all to place ? .
W ithout a sick-bed it cannot be—
Awake ye fallen race!
H er murderers here you do appear.
Her wounds you've open'd new ;
And every dart that’9 in her heart,
. They're plac'd, vain men, by you.
T he shepherds here mus t all appear.
Confess their every guilt ;
H er murderers see, you shepherds be:
I know what she hath felt
A nd now this day, to all I say,
Her spirits I sink low,
That you may see the agony, ;
W h at I for men went through;
But now I'm come in Spirit strong
In Spirit I do groan;
But if mv passions you awake,
I'll make you all to mourn.
1 said at first it so should burst,
Upon the shepherds here • ;
And perfect true, you all shall know,
I’ll now turn back the spear.
T en thousand daggers you have plac'd
Here in a heart that's m ine;
T en thousand daggers you shall taste
In my appointed time;
. I f you don’t turn, ih sorrows mourn,
Like harlots yoU must be,
That have no honour in your name,
Your characters to free.
It is not the, I now tell ye,
That you're call'd forth to clear.
It is your titles now as men,
W hat shepherds ye are here:
And now from one I shall begin,
A shepherd in thy view ;
W rite thou the Fable of the man,
And then Til prove it true.”
This was a M r. Follard, a gentleman at Sidmouth,
whose shepherd was called both tha hind and the
shepherd. As most of his ground was occupied in
sheep, the shepherd was allowed a horse to ride about
and see the sheep every day with his dogs, as he had
no other employment. I have been in my Brpther’s
ground weeding, and haveseen himride into the fields,
* After these words Joanna-felt as if she was dying.
V 3
Digitized by Google
( -*4 y
with his dogs, and call round the sheep that were there
present in the field; at the same time I have known
many sheep were in the ditch groaning and eat out
with the maggots. I have seen him ride out of the
field without taking notice of the sheep that were
missing, or taking one step after them. This en­
raged me against him, and made me tell it to others,
who told me he did the same at every place. A t
Bullw.irton Hill his sheep lay dead under the bushes
and hedges, eat out with the maggots, and he never
took one thought about them j for as long as he
could spend his time in idleness and drinking with
any that would pntertain him, it was all that he
cared for ; his master’s flock might all perish. S o
this is the shepherd I compare with the ministers.
On Thursday evening, July 19th, Joanna went
to sleep for about a quarter of an hour, and awaked,
with a dream,and desired us to pen these lines: but
the dream she cannot recollect—
The world in all its tarlons cliariiia
May prove its just deceit,
Then Christ will take me to His a r # s»
And prove his justice great,
T o bring on man what is at hand,
T h e judgments he'th decreed.
His wisdom there’s no man can scan*
T o make me first to bleed,
In sickness lie like one to die,
The sliadow lie plac’d here;
But when he turns the other way.
Oh, Shepherds all take care !—
4
4M y hand you’ll see in fury be
If you’!! hot rise and fall,
.Tu>t as this Woman doth appear*-
No, 110. I tell you all,
The slmtlow’s past, the die li cast.
And you may mourn too late;
I f you stand out longer in doubt
Vou'l! see your every fate.
So I’ll end bene and say no m ore:
But every fine goes deep;
The shadow doth to licr appear
llow all the end will break.
T he shadow first in her is plac’d :
My friends may rise and
Digitized by
' j t z J L - l .
a #
( 45 >
But them I'll free from misery,
I I now do tell you all.—
But to the land, they’re om the sand*
And storms will fast abound,
(You little know what is at hand)
And houses empty founfi.”
D IR E C T IO N S FOR MR. JO NES T O G O T O T IIE REV.
MR. FO M ER O Y.
“ Tell Jones to go to Pomeroy, and makehim brings
forth his arguments, and make him shew his strong
reasons, why he published thy writings to be from
the devil, when he told Jones that he was jealous
from thy wisdom, that all came from thyself, as he
had tried thee every way, and thou hadst a great
deal of shrewd sense ; and he had been astonished
at thy answers.— But thy answers to Pomeroy came
from m e , and not from thyself; therefore, Jones
was wiser than Pomeroy, to say he did not believe ,
thou hadst any more knowledge than he had, of thy­
self. Now let Jones go to Pomeroy, and tell him
I hc'hjs come as a friend to prevent his house ffonr
being set on fire, from a letter that has been sent
to him. The fury Ofthe Lord is broke out so strong
in thee, to advertise Pomeroy in every paper that he
hath been led by the devil, as he advertised thee—
For the day of vengeance was then in her heart, for
full of fury she came into his presence,-and it was
full of fury she signed her name, to submit to
Pilate’s words, that she was an impostor and had a
devil.” And to Pilate’s words Christ submitted on the
Cross, and with Pilate’s words I signed my destiny,—
As Christ scaled his Blood upon the Cross, so did I
sign to Pomeroy, and yielded myself to be an im­
postor—a woman led by the devil.— But by the let­
ters I sent to him afterwards, he must seethe veil of
the temple that was rent, and the day of vengeance
that was in my heart:— “ And now the day of venge­
ance is come, that all the good offices that he boast­
ed of appeareth no more to thee, than a Judas that
professed to be a ,disciple of Christ, and afterwards
denied him, afterwards betrayed him as Pomeroy -
betrayed thee; and now if lie do not lay down hi$
Digitized by Goode
( * )
pen, as Judas laid down the money : for it was for
money Judas betrayed m b ; and Pomeroy gave mo­
ney to betray thee. Then let the scenes be changed}
but let Ponaeroy say with Judas, I have sinned, in
that I have betrayed innocent blood. And now let
him comeback to Pilate: “ W hat fault could I find in
the woman, before I had provoked her to anger, by
turning her from the Sacrament, by advertising het
for a devil, or drawing her in to sign her hand, as
Christ signed his Blood?” If they judged him pos­
sessed of the devil, to their judgment he submitted
t>nthe Cross} and to Pomeroy’s wisdom I made thee
submit. Judas kissed me when he betrayed m e}
and Pomeroy called thee a dear good woman, and
tpok thee by the hand when he betrayed thee,
and advertised thee in the paper, as being led
by the devil; but let him remember the words that
were then spoken, when Taylor feared it was m y
Spirit that rose within thee with indignation, to make
answer and say, that he couUl not hurt thy writings i
for what was Of man w'ould come to nothing, but
UL'hdt was of G od they could not overthrow, lest
luckily they were found to fight against God : for
that luck shall never come to Pomeroy, nor they
that tempted him, as the men tempted Judas. Th ey'
shall not answer as the men answered to Judas, when
he brought in the money7 and said, I have sinned, in
that I have betrayed innocent blood ; for their an­
swer was, “ what is that to u s; see thou to it.” But
my answer shall now be unto him that says, “ I have
betrayed and sinned, in that I have betrayed inno­
cent blood— and now I will cast my pen before h i m .”
Let this be Pomeroy’s answer, and then I’ll tell thee
my answer ; you cursed shepherds, you blind guides,
you- would not enter in yourselves, nor suffer those
who were entering to go in ; therefore I’ll place you
in Satan’s room, and you shall look to i t ; for he
that delivered thee unto him hath the greatest sin.
And now let Jones plead with Pomeroy in this man-
Digitized by Google #
( 47 )
p e r :— Suppose a man should put in the hands of a
law yer writings that should gain him a whole king­
d o m ; and the lawyer should say, I will keep the
w ritings, and I will carry them on to the trial; and
i f the writings will gain thy trial thou shalt gain the
kingdom ; and I will stand thy lawyer; I must stand
th y counsellor, as a judge at the assizes; but if thy
ivritings will not gain the trial, I confess I cannot
gain it by law any other way but by the truth of thy
writings. Suppose the man consents to put all into
th e lawyer’s hands upon this condition, and say if
the truth of my writings will not entitle me to the
kingdom, then I will give it up ; but do you justice,
and bring my writings forward. The lawyer he pro-
•Tnised to be faithful, and the man depends upon his
honour, and puts the •writings in his hands, expecting
him to come forward as his counsellor to plead his
cause. But suppose an enemy to the man should go
to him that was the supposed counsellor, with the
writings in his hands, and say, I hate the person
that is heir to the kingdom, and in my heart I de­
spise him ; therefore 1 will give you any thing, and
I will be your friend for ever, if you wr
ill now
prove treacherous and deceitful: publish to the world
the man's cause is not good ; he is no heir to the
kingdom; and to prevent others from trying the cause
in his stead, burn every writing he hath put in your
hands, that justice may never be done to the man—
' Ask Pomeroy how he would look upon such a man?
Or suppose the cause to be liis owm, and lie should
lose every penny lie had in the world, by such an
artful and deceitful friend, would he not say lie was
worse than the one who set liis house on fire r— Let
this parable be proposed by Jones, and let the an­
swer be given by Pomeroy ; then let Jones answer
as Nathan answered David, Thou art the man ; for
thou hast slain Uriah ; and put him in the front of the
battle to be slain by his enemies; and thou hast taken
his wife to be thy wife, to commit adultery \
0 Digitized by Google J
and gave consent to her husband’s death: But hejre
see her heart awakened to despise the man that slew
her husband ; and she will not bow to be like Uriah’s
wife, but is enraged with the man that slew her bus-1
-/band— And now I shall answer the ponderings of thy
titoufout l1eart : Thou'saycst in thy heart, how am I placing
this pareVie to place m e , the Lord ofL ife and Glory,
as t!ie Uriah that was slain in the front of the battle;
and to nhee David as the prince in man, whom thou
must i ow despise, for slaying Urialt. the Hittite in
the front of the battle; and bring-ma David, whom
I said I v.as the root and offspring of, the bright
and morning star, to be the murderer thou must des­
pise ? Here is the dark saying thou dost not under­
stand ; but now that dark saying shall be brought to
*
ligh t: men have always sought M an to be the Da­
vid established upon’the throne, and always made
M e to be the Uriah that was slain in the front of the
battle ; but now I tell thee, for this the sword never
■4
L 4
m shall depart from man, till a Solomon doth appear,
that will ask wisdom of God. Then shall m y
T hbo ne be established, and the house shall be built
in m y N a m e , and all the cedars of Lebanon shall
appear; then shall they say, Uriah is the man whom
Satan's arts hath worked to destroy, and always slew
him in the front of the battle ; h it F am the D a v id
thatpreserved the IVoman, when Satan’s arts slew the
Man— But here thy heart is puzzled again ; because
David himself ordered Uriah to be put in the front
of the battle, for the adultery he had committed
with his wife, to slay the Man and save the Woman
alive!! This appears marvellous in thy eyes. Can I be
the S a vio u r, the Pr in c e op P e a c e , the E v e r ­
l a s t in g F a t h e r , t h e d e s ir e op e v e r y N a­
tion to establish the Throne of David, to be the
adulterer who tempted the woman to sin,— then to
destroy her husband, and take the adulterous wife
to my throne ? A God that is full of honour, a God
whose pure eyes cannot look on iniquity with any ,
( 48 )
Digitized by U o o Q l e
' ( . )
allewanee, a Saviour that was without sin, neither
was guile found in his mouth ! But he that was
without sio was chastised for sin; for the Lord laid
on him the iniquities of all. And now come to the
Creation : In the form of a Serpent the Woman wa»
•betrayed. Then come to the Wilderness: in the form,
o f a Serpent, they were to look oa- to be saved.
Then now I will go back to the beginning: from the
throne of David* the shadows have been established^
as though Satan, the prince of this world, had beet*
establishing the Throne and slaying m e , as Uriah
was slain, and taking the adulterous woman to their
bosoms, and say the man may be murdered, but
the adultery of the woman I will hug in my bosom.
T h is has been from the Fall to this day. And here
I have spoken after the flesh, that was betrayed by
the living Serpent that spoke; but know the Ser­
pent in the wilderness appeared to man to be without
life, a dumb idol that could not speak; yet that
Serpent that appeared without life saved them that
looked at him, that had been stung by living Ser­
pents. Then here you must come to the S p ir it , to
nim that appeareth dead, but speaketh ! And now
I will come as the Brazen Serpent, to cut off the
Crown that is established by adultery; and I will
come as the Uriah, to establish the throne of David,
that was slain for the adultery of the woman ; and
y e t I will come as a David, to save the adulterous
woman that was betrayed by the arts of man, while
the crowns have been established in sin : for what
is after the flesh is fleshly; and what is after the
earth is earthly ; but what is after the spirit is spi­
ritual. And know, I said ye must be born again,
and all old things must be done away, and all things
must become new; then for all things to becotre
new, I must come as David in all his virtues, but
not after the flesh, in one o f his vices. I must come
as the G ood S h e p h e r d , that taketh care of his
theep, and lead them into good pastures:— I mast
G
Digitized by U o o Q l e
( 50 )
come as the David that slew the Goliah; I mustcome
as a D a v id that despised- Saul's daughter, when
she despised to see David dance before the ark to see
it brought back: for this is the A bk of t i b N ew
C o v e n a n t , that I shall slay the Goliah ; and to esta­
blish it I must come to save the adulterous Woman,
who was adulterated by thefa ll, but not by m b in ihe
S p i r i t , but alter the Flesh by Man. But here the
scenes must change, the Woman hjth renounced all
the works of the flesh; and put on all the Works of
the S p i r i t . Her hufband was not slain in.the bat­
tle, whom she wished to make her husband— but
here, I confess, af.er the Spirit I slew the Man by
love, by drawing her heart after m e and putting him
in front of every battle that was against him. This
have I done with all her lovers, till I taught her
heart to love m e , and m e only. Then now from
the Spirit see the perfect likeness of David in the
flesh; but what was of earth was earthly and sinful;
but what is from the Spirit is spotless and innocent
without sin unto salvation—-
go npw sec cle^r yojir David here,
And all my armour see; ‘
For in thy bed 1did appear
W ith aJI iny majesty :
But looks disorder’d thou didst cry,
And so they do appear—
W e t with the sweats of agonies
Thou sawest iqy flaxen hair;
W ith perspiration on mV face,
A n a drolw thou large did see—
You little know, ye fallen race,
T he agonies of M e !! I
T o shew my love so strong to prove
1 do to man appear;
And camt thou marvel at the sight
T o see my flaxen hair
Disorder’d stand, appear to man,
O r yet appear to thee ?
I tell thee my diborder’d hair
Points out m r agonies,
That now again in m e are come,
But see men's love so cold;
T he drops of sweat must now be known,
Tlmt thou didst then behold; •
Digitized by Google
( 3* )
1 breath’d in thee, they all shall see, *
'T h e BREATH O f HEAVENLY LIFE ;
A n d where's the man shall dare to stand
T o prove thou’rt.not the W ife?
For to appear, and make all clear,
That ready now thou’rt come,
T o say the Bridegroom doth appear
Freely to wed with man >
Between yon two, thou well dost know,
T h e sight did so appear;
A n d canst thou marvel for to see
M y wet disorder'd hair?
N o : la m press'd, my heart doth burst
W ith love and anger too;
1 know m y shepherds must be cast;
For now between you two,
M y heart is press’d— my grief doth bunt,
And passions strong do b u m !! 1
Into m y Sp i r i t thou shalt drink,
Though Pomeroy did thee turn*,
Unworthy there for to appear,
Thou'rt worthy unto m e :—
A n d Pomeroy may begin to fear
And tremble for to see—
H e turn'd back one, to me ’twas known.
That lov'd m e above the rest—
A n d all his Hock from him* is gone,
Then let his grief to burst.
In sorrow here tor to appear,
I f he a branch will b e --
For I am the vine— I'll tell my mind.
That did appear to thee
In glory bright before thy sight;
As in the harvest day.
W h en men are reaping strong in might
Their feces oft do lay
W ith sweat appear, as mine did there—
T h y Father's collar see,
H ow oft unbutton’d, did appear,
W h en in the field to be
In reaping string, to thee ’tis known—
M y harvest now is near:
I plainly tell thee, begun;
Then let the shepherds fear.
I f they'll not come like husbandmen
M y harvest now to see,
I tell them plain I'll cut them down] H .
M y reapers now shall be
Those that do join and do combine
In love for to appear;
Between you two, they all shall know,*..
A shadow deep lies here;
Because the first in thee did burst.
In grief to travel on ;
• From the Sacrament
0
4
4
s]/3 /fatrfC
G 2
V"
Digitized by Google
0 M >
And when I told thee at the h it
T he Apostle's words should com e-*
That as ih Adam all did die, -
T h e life should come in me
T o man appear’d a mystery*
The trutli they, could not see.
T h y second heie did then appear*
Believ'd the words were truer
And from her judgment did compare
The Bible to their view—
But her they mock'd; then judge the stroke
Must on the right handfa ll ;
Because her letters they turn’d back;
Then tremble one and all,
You shepherds here for to appear*
M y l o v e andybrysce.
Between the two, before your viewr
You're deeply wounding m e :
Because the first • in love did burst*
In love to me was strong;
And now her second so is plac'd*
Between them both I'm come*
W ounded to see the misery
That they for me do bear.
And now^ ye shepherds of MY FLOCK*
Tremble my words to hear: .
Y6u wound m.y heart, you've caus'd a smart
That you can never heal;
And from the love that here I prova k
M y anger you shall feel.
There’s not a sin under the sun
That is so great to me,
As 'tis to wound these women’s,hearts*
That now my helpers be,
And do appear in love so dear* '
And mine they’ll find is strong; .
So, o f these women now take care;
Or bring your ruin on.
For fast shall fall, I tell you; nil*
M y leg I shew'd to thee, j ’
W h ere on thy hand so strong did folk
In purple spots for me;
A n d purple here i did appear.
T o shew my grief like tnm *;
Thy agonies 1now do beat’
T o see the human mind
Fetter d so strong in Satan's chains*
H e will not let them g o ;
Because men's reason they do drown*
,The light they will not know.
So in the dark they miss the mark*
As I did vanish there;
But quickly in the W om ans Form
la id to thee appear.
• Joanna. ‘
/ //
Digitized by Google
f % But then* likje man* thou didst begin,
And griev’d her sight to see $
Thou couId'st net bear the Wom an’s Form,
T h e shadow there of me. '
. Just so your Land is now become,
T h e Woman cannot bear.
It was I that worked in thy heart
T o shew the mystery clear, \ ‘
H ow that your Land to thee is seen,
And every Type behold;
But I do say another day
I’ll make their blood rim cold.
So I’ll end here and say no m ore:
But Jones must weigh all deep;
And all together now compare,
T o seek my long lost sheep.
' ( W )
The explanation of that vision is only given in
part. The above was written ou Thursday, July 5,
18C
(4j and sent to Exeter early this morning, Fri­
day, July 6.
Before an explanation was given further, Joanna
Was ordered to take her, Bible and put down such
‘passages of Scripture as the Lord Vrould direct her
— the first was in .
r ’Amos, chap, v . ’ v e r . 2 0 . Shall not the day of
"the Lord be darkness, ■ and not light? even very
dark, and no brightness in it ?
2 1 . I hate, I despise yout feast days, and I will
not pmell in your solemn assemblies.
2 2 . -Though ye offer me burnt offerings and your
meat offerings, I will not accept them : neither
•will I regard the peace offerings of your fat beasts.
2d. Take thou away from me the noise of thy
•bhgs : ‘for I will not hear the melody of thy viols.
24. But let judgment run down as waters, and
righteousness as a mighty stream.
Micahy chap. vi. ver. 1 1 . Shall J count them
*pure with the wicked balances, and with the bag of
deceitful weights ?
12 . For the rich men thereof are full of violence,
and the inhabitants thereof have spoken lies, and
•their tongue is deceitful in their mouth. *7
14. Therefore also will I make thee skfk in smit-
. I*
* ' Digitized by Google
( 54 )
ing thee, in making thee desolate'because of th y
sins.
Habakkuk, chap. ii. ver. 11 . For the stone shall
cry out of the wall, and the beam out of the timber
shall answer it. '
14. For the earth shall be filled with the know­
ledge of the glory Of the Lord, as. the waters cover
the sea.’
John, chap. v. ver. 39. Search the Scriptures;
for in them ye think ye have eternal life ; and th ey
are they which testify of me.
40. And ye will not come to me, that ye m ight
have life. •
John, chap, vi *. ver. 33. For the b readofG od
is he which cometh down from heaven, and gprcth
life unto the world.
53. Then Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily,
I say unto you, Except ye eat the flesh of the S ob
of Man, and drink his blood, ,ye have no life ia
you.
54. Whoso eateth my flesh, .and drinketh m y
blood, hath eternal life: and I will raise him up at
the last day.
66. From that time many of his disciples went
back, and walked no more with him.
1 E pist. John, chap. iii. ver. 1. Behold,what man*
ner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us, that
we should be called the sons of God, therefore the
world knoweth us not, because it knew him not. *
2. Beloved, now are we the sons of God, at|d
it doth not yet appear what we shall be$ but we
know that, when he shall appear, we shall be likje
him ; for yre shall see him as he is.
1 Epist. John, chap. iv. ver. 14. And we. have
seen and do testify that the Father sent the Son to
.be the Saviour of the world.
, 1 Epist. John, chpp. v. ver. 9. If we receive the
witness of men, the witness of God is greater: for
* Read the whole chapter, and mark the 66th verse.
Digitized by L j O O Q i e
this is the witness of God which he hath testified of
his Son.
10 . He that believeth on the Son o f God, hath
th e witness in himself; he that believeth not God,
hath made him a liar : because he believeth not the
.record that God gave of his Son*.
1 1 . And this is the record, That’God hath given
to us .eternal life: and this life is in his Son.
1 2 . He that hath the Son hath Jife ; and he that
hath not the Son of God hath not life.
13. These things have I written unto you that
Jbelieve on the name of the Son of God ; that ye may
know that ye have eternal life, and that ye may be­
lieve on the name of the Son of God.
Psalm ii. ver. 7. I will declare the decree:
the Lord hath said unto me,, thou art my son ; this
day ltave. I begotten thee.
,j. 8. ,Ask of me, and I shall give thee the heathen
.for thi;e .nhchtan.ee, and the uttermost parts of the
earth for thy pus ession.
9. Thou shalt break them with a rod of iron;
.jthou shalt dash them in pieces like a potter’s vessel.
10. Be wise now therefore, O ye kings: be in­
structed, ye judges of the earth.
11. Serve the Lord with fear, and rejoice with
trembling.
. 12. Kiss the son, lest he be angry, and ye perish
3 from the way, when his wrath is kindled but a little.
Blessed are all they that put th. ir trust in him!
Isaiah, chap. lx. ver. 1. Arise, shine; for thy
,light is come, and the glory of the Lord is risen
ppon thee.
2. For, behold, the darkness shall cover the earth,
.. ;and gross darkness the people : but the Lord shall
. .arise upop thee, and his glory shall be seen upon
thee.
Isaiah, chap- lxi. ver. 1. The Spirit of the Lord God
(supon n e ; because the Lord hath anointed me to
preach good tj,dings to the meek.
( 55 ) .
Digitized by b o o g i e
( 56 )
2. T o proclaim the acceptable year o f the L o rd ,
and,the day of vengeance of our G od ; to comfort
' all that mourn.'
THE ANSWER OF THE SPIRIT.
Now mark these Scriptures; see in what manner
they are spoken; and judge for yourselves how they
are to be fulfilled. Therefore, I told thee in the
beginning, they must mark how the things came
first to thee, and how they followed one thing
after another, or no man can be a clear judge.
Let a man see thee full of the fury of the Lord, and
know nothing before o r. after, then he might
judge that thou wert mad, or had a devil; it was
not the words could convince them that they were
spoken from the Lord in fury. Let them see thee
in thy sick bed, Teady to die with sickness when
thou receivedst Pomeroy’s answer, that thou wert
a liar, and out of thy senses; would they notjudge
that the judgments of God was upon thee, and the
judgments of men were true ? And hadst thou died
in that sickness, would not men have said it was a
judgment from heaven upon thee, to. cut thee o ff
from troubling the man, that thou mightest never
trouble him more ? Had a stranger been in the room
that knew nothing of thee from the beginning, and
knew nothing of the types and shadows I had placed
in thee before, but seen thee like one mad, when
the answer came, and as one dying the following
day ; would they not sooner have said the devil was
working in thee for revenge, while the hand of
the Lord was cutting thee off, than have be*
lieved how thy sickness was to shew how sick the
, Lord was of such ministers, and thou must warn him
again if ever the Lord raised thee from a sick bed.
• Let this appear to an unbelieving world, and ask
„them which judgment they would draw? Would they
a *? not have said, as the people said of Paul, when they
saw the viper on his hand; that he was a murderer,
Digitized by Google
o r had done some black crime before the viper wts
shook ffomhis hand, when they changed their minds?
Ju s t so would the worldjudge of thee, if they had seen
thee in all the appearance of death, sickness, and ago­
nies, which thou couldest not bear; and at the same
time to tell them the Lord would never remove his
afflicting hand from thee, before thou hadSt pub­
lished to the world the cruelty, the ingratitude, and
the unjust dealings of the clergy; and then he would
take thy sufferings from thee, and lay it on the clergy.
N ow let the ministers answer for themselves, if they
had been in thy room attending thee, as my hand­
maids were, whether they would riot have persuad­
ed thee, that a wrong spirit visited thee, and that the
hand of God was heavy upon thee, and that he
would soon take thee out of the world ? Therefore,
instead of writing against the ministers, thy duty
was to forget and forgive all the injuries that were
done to thee ; and thou oughtest to try to make thy
peace with God, that he might pardon ajl thy sins;
and if thou didst not forgive thy enemies, the Lord
would never forgive thee : and conscience must con­
demn them. Just so would have been their mistakeii
zeal, which the devil, as aft angel of light, would
have worked strong in their hearts to do, and so have
kept thee a martyr in sufferings; and the greater
they saw thy sufferings increase, the greater they
would have thought thejudgmentsof God uponthee;
therefore, under afalse and mistaken notion o f religion,
they would have been thy murderers; fpr the Wt>rds
were gone out of m y mouth, that I would never
restore thee to health, before thou hadst published
the unjust dealings of the clergy. So the wisdom of
men would have tried to make their God the liar !
And now I shall come to my Bible, concealing the
Second Psalm : “ Ask and receive thy full demands,
and 1 yvili give thee the heathen for thioe inherit­
ance, and’ rhe uttermost parts of the earth for thy
possession; ' Thoii shalt break them with a rod of
H
' ( 5
7 )
Digitized by Google
( *» \
.ifon, and dash them in pieces like a potter’s vessel.’ "
let them tell me, who is my Son ? or to whom
that promise was made ? Or whom that Spirit
of the Lord was to be upon, to bind up the broken­
hearted ; to proclaim liberty to the captive, and the
opening of the prisons to them that art bound’
, to pro­
claim the acceptable y e a r op th e Lord, and the
iday of vengeance of our G od ; to comfort all that
mourn ? When was this done is my demand of the
shepherds ? W ill you answer, when I came in the
jflesh ? When the priests, judges, and rulers put me
\o death, were the mourners, then comforted ?
W ere the broken-hearted then healed ? Will you dare
to say the vengeance o f Gon was then upon me ? For
1 tell you, it is I am the S pirit that am speaking
now through the Woman. You hear her voice, b u t!
uni the Spirit that was crucified for man in the body,
but am now c,omc again in the S p ir it, to fulfil the
.
’T ruth of m y G ospel, and what vyas promised in
the beginning.— And he that bcl eveth not in u r
G o spel, nor in the Promise God made in the Son,
hath made God a liar, because he believes not the
"record God gave of his Son: and this is the record,
'God gave to us E t e r n a l L i f e , and this L ife is
In his S on. Then now bring forward your argu­
ments, and prove that Eternal Life is come to man—
jirove the record God gave of his Son,— prove the
promise that he made in the beginning — and tell
m e , whose heel was to be bru sed, and whose head
j,va$4P be broken ? In whom and by whom was this
to be done.? Now I shall come to my Gospel.
W hat did I say of the Shepherds ? Did I not say
they were dumb dogs, that could not bark ? Did I
rot say they were blind leaders of the blind, and all
would fell into the ditch together ? Did I not say
they were hirelings, that cared not for the sheep, be­
cause they were hirelings? Bur I was the G ood
"Sh ktu ke u» that careth for m y sheep.— Now see
what this Woman has published to the world against
• 4 ^ ^ ' • * * * ' *
Digitized by G o o g l e
the shepherds; and let every Cause be fairly tried.—
T h e y must stand guilty before G od and Man, an-d
say, “ we are hirelings, we care not for the sheep; if
they fell by thousands on the right hand, or tens of
thousands on the left, we cared not. W e care not
what become, of the sheep.” This their conduct
has proved by the manner they turned b^ck the let­
ters : it was to try them, that I .ordered the letters to
be sent out; and to try them again I -Ordered the
other letters— that men might find no. excuse for
themselves, only guilty—
' ( 5
9 )
And guilty all they now shall fall,
As Adam fell at first.
But wheie's the Wom an they cati call,-*.
T o say their guilt di<J burst
From her weak hand ; can they now staled
T o plead before m y B ar,
••It was theWom an us betray’d ?
” A
N o : man I’ll answer here.— •
You cannot free your infamy, „
T o cast it on her head:
For by her hand you will not stand, ; ,
Then what have you to plead ?
N o Adams here can you appear,
* For me to free your fall* v
And from the Psalm I’ll answer here, „
I now do tell you all,
1had design’d assuredly ^
As GoDs to make vo i here.
Priests and Prfiphets for to be, y
And join’d you Sons and Heirs. *
For Heirs of God, you know *tis said, „
That men I’d surely make ; *
Joint Heirs with me, my Bible sec,
M y words I’ll ne'er forsake, *
Because that some this way are com<%
As Adam came at firrt:
•‘ W e took it from the W om an’s baud,,
•‘ That told us came from C h rist; **
•• And so from H r, the words we see
“ In likeness do appear.
«*• It is our Saviour we've obe 'd,
•• From all our judgment hcrc.^
Then surely I that dwells on high.
Must free them of the Fall; T
M y words I never will deny, 1
But now I'll conquer hell, '
M v Fathers wtH’fof* to fulfil
In all 11
1now go through;
H 2
\
Digitized by Google
( 69 )
M y B lood in vein J11 never spiH,
Though I have got but few
T h a t stand by me; I plain do see*
T h e Shepherds are asleep*
l^ike Follard's Shepherds sure they b e ;
But l shall make them weep*
W h en I turn back the coming ftrq k ^
A n d bid them to appear;
r i! ask them bow they dare to mock
M y Law and Gospel here;
because by them 1know 'tis done*
M y sheep like his I see,
Sat out with worms, from Satan oome-r—
Such careless Shepherds be
N ow in this land, and on the sand
* T h e ir houses soon shall fall;
Because the ditches you may see*
M y sheep may perish all:
Careless they go, as he did do*
A n d carelessly they stand; #
T h e sheep that's brought before their view
T h e y easy 'may command.
But if there's one from them is gone*
T h e y 'll say that sheep may die ;
A n d i f t be ten, 1 know these men
W o u ld let them so to lie ;
O n every hill, 1 tell you still,
M y sheep are dying there;
From every ditch you may them fetch
D ying for want o f care:
For like that man the Shepherds stand-*
But shall I call them mine,
T h ou gh they profess, but do disgrace
T h eir Master.at this time ?
Shepherds for me they say they'be 11
M y Flock they do destroy;
F or want o f care, I tell you here*
T h e devil may enjoy
H is woi ms to breed in every head,
An d to the sheep may g o ;
T h e y care not o f my Flock that's dead,
I f they can blind me so*
A s did the man his master's hand,
H a did blind him at the first,
A n d careless left his sheep to die.
A n d di4 blind him at to e last
A n d this by man it m ight be done^
But can you blind your G o d ,
W h ose B vp before yob always fub|
T o mark the stpps you've trod ?
fo r ju s t liketh
ee*ihey'Ji all find Mfe
Thou seest the Shepherd comet
A n d a ll his ways thou didst espyt
A n d knew th? shedp w g on ^
•Digitized by Google
( )
Wounded in grief, to seek relief,
^The groaning sheep did lie,
N or e'er one step did he pursue^
T o see his agony; •
N or yet relieve or e’er reprieve
Him from his sore distress.
This cruelty provoked thee,
Did wound thy feeling breast.
Now for thyself, I'll answer here, •
My Ey e has been like thine;
I ’ve seen the Shepherds’ cruel care.
But knew ’twas near the time
That 1 should speak, my anger break,
And on the Shepherds turn,
fo r worse than he the Shepherds be, -
' Because m y sheep are m e n ;
And they may die in hell to li«^ .
In flames for ever burn;
I f they can gain their wages here,
They care not who do mourn. *
M y Gospel here they cannot clear /
T o copy after me; ,
A n d now 1 bid them tell me where
1 ever act that way?
W hoe'er did come, to you His known,
i always stoop’d to hear.
Then if 1 was the Son o f G od,
You Shepherds now take care !
For my example you do say
I left for you to go—-
But every one is gone astray.
And that I well did know,
That at the last it so would burst,
M y Gospel be a form,
W h en in the Spirit at the last,
1 did to you return.
But Shepherds three, you nowmaysec,
I’ve got to make the One
That is a Shadow deep of me, -
And there you’ll find I’m come.
Then now from Spring I will begin-* *
And let the hour appear; .
T he one is past, the second burst,
And now the Type I’ll clear:
And from the Seals I shall reveal •
T he first was broken here, „
The second came, the same be’t know#*
Until the words appear’d ;
And from the third, behold the word,
T w o hours must appear,
Ere thou didst see the mystery, .
W hat in the Seals were plac’d ; -
And perfect so you all shall know*, .
W hat Seals to m lh shall burst:
Digitized by Google
I'll never blame the simple thing,
’ I\vas I that work’d it heie:
W h en from the simple Types o f men
I always did appear. .
And so from Spring I shall begin *
T o shew the Type once more ;
W ait ye to sec the mystery,
W hen two months do appear. .
As seven stars came from afar,
T he wise men came to see
But seven more will then appear,
And full as wise will be;
For with the first they'll surely burst
And fourteen stars will come, ,
That bright will shine when ’tis m y t im e ,
And with the seven join :
So fourteen then will be wise men,
W ith wisdom come to see
W h at wonders here do now appear, *
And join in harmony. .
So then thy dream I snail explain, *
I shew’d thee at the first; .
W h en seven Stars to fourteen came *
T h e Wonders all Wbuld burst
So now the man I shall begin
T o answer from his w ord;
. I never will condemn the things
But let him judge his Lord ;
From what he hath done behold his hand,
H e bid thcc wart his time,
And perfect here thou didst appear
Unto his will resign'd $
Thou’st never broke till it was up,
And so obey’d the m an:
Because 'twas 1 that work'd in thee
T o make thcc silent ‘tamd;
Then • • • • • • here like him Fll clear
T h e * * • • 9* in his view ; .
Then he shall know bis God is here,
And all my words are true;
Though spoke by thcc, they all may say,
But I’m the Author here;
T h e God of Heaven the lines hath given—
Let • • • • * * now take care;
And judge the W ord is from the L ord,
And thep he ll find me just; -
Much greater than was'in his view, * *
H e’ll find that day to burst. '
W h at he ne'er thought, nor mane'er wrote,
N or ever thought to see ■ .
The wonders gr^at, without deceit, *
'That day will surely be.
So now act whe, let none disguise,
For every Seal wHi come.’’ •
( «2 )
Digitized by Google
( 63 )
About eight o’clock, Saturday evening, we were
prevented going on with this beautiful communica­
tion, by a letter from Exeter, which agitated Jo ­
anna so much, and made her so ill and faint, that she
could not go on any further that night.
Sunday Ju ly lld y 1804.
After the letter came1
, Joanna spent a restless
night; and though she sleeps in a large bed, thought
it was not large enough for her. In the morning
she waked very faint and low spirited; but was an-
.swered, the shadows to her were the fubstance to
the clergy ; and she was ordered to call tq her re­
membrance the words in her writings years agone ;
“ a bed is too short for a man to stretch himself on it;
the covering is too narrow to wrap himself in it
that she must go through the shadows, and then the
substance should come ctn the nation, that was now
mocking the Coming of the Lord ; and then the
Lord would restore her to strength and take all
the shadows from her, and place all the substance
in mankind. Then they would find the restlessness
o f their minds, the trouble of their conscience would
make their beds too short to stretch themselves on,
and the covering too narrow to wrap themselves in
i t ; and they would wake in the morning as weak
and faint as she was; they will find themselves
weak in judgment, weak in understanding, and weak
in strength to defend themselves, so that they will
appear but as dead men.”
A S E C O N D L E T T E R F R O M M I L J O S E P H S O U T H -
C O T T T O T H E R E V . M R . P O M E R O Y .
R e v . S i r , B ristol,Ju ly 1 8 0 4 .
When I wrote to you, by Mr. Jones, I thought
I was writing to a gentleman, and as such I expect-r
ed an answer; ucr could I have thought you would
Digitized by
( <U }
hare disgraced the gown you wear, as yon have, b y
calling my Sister a liar. I think it neither does cre­
dit to the gentleman or to the clergyman; for let
the world’s belief of her Writings be what it m ay,
there is no one who knows her,. but thinks her fat
superior to that appellation ; and you yourself have
sufficiently proved yourself what you call her, b y
frequently pronouncing her a religious, good wo­
man, which no liar can be. You, sir, received the
letter worldlfly; and, as a man of the world, turned
it into ridicule, and said my Sister was a liar, and
as mad as a March hare. But, sir, consider my Sister
takes things in a spiritual sense ; and if you have
never been spiritually affected, which, if yoii never
have, God grant you may, at the reading of this,
is my sincere wish and hope; and that the Lord
may spiritually affect you, as he has her ; for I must
tell you, the Lord hath afflicted her with a violent
sickness; and that the Lord saith, he is as sick o f
the clergy as she is now sick, which I trust the
Lord will reward with an immortal crown of glo ry;
and that you, and all the right reverend divines, the
bishops and other clergy of this kingdom, may, ere
it is too late, be convinced, and endeavour to con­
vince your different flocks, that Christ's Kingdom
is nearly at hand; and that all our united prayers
may be the means of destroying the power of the
devil, and chaining Satan down in the bottomless
pit, as foretold in the Revelations, and establishing
Christ’s peaceable Kingdom here on earth ; so that
we may, like her, receive that inestimable reward,
which no earthly power can give, is the most ardent
wish of my heart.— I, sir, am not mad, nor am I
an enthusiast. I am a man very publicly in the
world; yet I am not ashamed to speak in any com­
pany, what I can prove from our blessed Saviour’s
words, and having the holy Bible to support it, I
need not point out to you where these truths are to
be found ; and how they were to be fulfilled, I re-
Digitized by G o o g l e
( e i )
fe r you "to Joanna’s writings. The purport o f m y
ietter to you, was to demand the writings and letters
y ° u had of hePs, which she innocently lodged in
yo u r hands, thinking that if ever you declined her
cause, you would honourably return, them ; but I
TOust say, you have entirely deviated from that prin­
cip le by not doing it; and must further add, that
w hen her Trial comes, you will most certainly be
called upon to give an account of that stu ff, as you
term it, which you amused yourself with burning
o f. M y Sister has sent to desire me to remind you
o f a letter she sent you in 1796 or 179 7, which
contains these words—
A Judas he shall be to me
I f he doth me deny;
N o comfort in this world he'll have*
And tremble for to die.
H e must be found an empty sound,
And hollow all within;
I ask the bishop how he'll look
On such deceitful men >
1 have further to add, the time above alluded to
w e are to expect; but the day nor hour no man
knoweth, not even the angels in heaven; but that
the Lord will come upon them as a thief in the
n ig h t; and that you, and all mankind might turn
unto h im whilst the gates of mercy are open, and
be ready to meet h im at his Coming, is the sincere
wish and prayer of, Sir, yours very respectfully,
(Signed,) Josxph Soothcott.
N o . 9, T rin ity Street, B risto l.
M onday, Ju ly 23, f 8Q4.
Joanna had a restless night, but towards the morn*
ing fell asleep, and lay between sleeping and wait*
ing till the postman rang the bell, with a letter from
M r. Foley. She was waked by the bell, and told
Underwood, that, whether she was awake when the
words were spoke, or whether she dreamt it, she does
not know; but they were these words, “ In forty days,
1
Digitized by
fatal destruction should happen to England.'* She
was faint, but comfortable : after that M r. Foley’s
.letter was brought her, which gave her great plea­
sure. She then was answered to the words, or her
dream— “ O England, England ! ten years have I
warned tli.ee, ten years have my judgments been upon
:thee, and though the poor have perished in thy
.streets, and all the land hath been oppressed, yet
thou art like the anvil that is hardened to the stroke;
tby teachers are blind guides; thy priests arepolluters
o f the sanctuary : woe unto those ,who go in unto
.them; for they will notenter in themselves, nor suf­
fer those who are entering in to go in. I had one
Shepherd,' that began in the Spirit, but the shep­
herds have murdered him ; for he was like Ephraim,
as a cake not baken; the Assyrians destroyed his
strength; and the pride of the clergy testified in their
hearts against him : O how weak is Taylor’s judg­
ment, to wish thou mightest never trouble Pomeroy
more! Let- her reflect on the days that are past, how
wrong she judged my ordering thee to send him that
letter ; but now let her see the justice of its being
sent. Now from this day let no man persuade thee;
let no man advise thee; let no man say, I wish the
.Lord would act another w ay; but all say, not my
.will, but thine be done, O L ord ; and then I will
‘make their bliss complete: but I will be avenged on
those Shepherds that mocked Pomeroy; for they have
been as serpents in the way to sting him; they have
robbed*him of his honour; they have robbed him
of a good conscience ;-‘they have robbed him of the
peace of his mind. Because he was like Ephraim, as
a cake not baken ; therefore, they had power to de­
stroyTiis strength but let him not say with Adam,
-the woman thou sendedst unto me beguiled me and
I did eat, or tempted me to do evil; for I now tell
•Pomeroy, if he had continued, as he began, to fol­
low on to know the Lord, and to be clear in judging
before be began to condemn; in blessing, I would
( 66 )
Digitized by Google
l£ ) s t r s s
( o r r
hare blessed him ; in multiplying, 1 woiikl -hav£r
multiplied him, and his seed should have been from:
generation to generation, till time was no more>
F o r in that manner was the letter sent unto him, the:
promises great, and the threatenings seven t.-t^e pro­
mises great, if he continued on to know the Lord ;."
the threatenings severe if he drawed back. Arid now'
reflect on Pomeroy's words, what he said unto thee
in Taylor’s house, how greatly the clergy at. Exeteg
plagued him, that he could not go into a coffee-;
house, nor into company where the ministers were*
but they would be wearying him with words,, than
he was the prophet, and that it was he that supported
thy hand; so to shun the ridicule of men, he pub-
lished to the world that thy God was a devil; but ho
shall know and tremble too before that God, whonf
he called a devil. So the very way he went to 9ave
his life, he hath lost i t ; for the comfort of his life is
destroyed in this world ; and without bitter repent^
ance, his soul must perish; for as he rejected thee, and -
t h y m a s t e r before thee, therefore th y .m a s t e r
he cannot come to, unless he repent in dust and ashes:
but they that tempted him to this evil have the greater
sin ; because they never acted in one step of virtue/
but despised every virtuous step that was in him*
I will set his good deeds, as well as his black deeds
before them: he acted wisely to search put the truth;
he acted wisely to offer to clear up the truth ; he
acted wisely to go to Nutcombe ; he acted wisely to
try the clergy ; he acted wisely to have the writings
sent to his house; he acted wisely to ask Dennis
and his uncle to come to. his house, and offered to
shew them thy writings and send for thee-; but
these, like Scribes, Pharisees, and hypocrites, would
neither enter in themselves, nor suffer him that was
entering to go in; but as thou sayest ih thy heart
they fell upon him, as the greedy hounds, fell
upon a hare, and made him like-ft. March hare?
out of his senses, when compassed sound by. the
greedy dogs of prey. . Ami now- by, -whom was
Digitized by G o o g l e
( < fe .)
this man beguiled ? Out of his own mouth the troth
must be made manifest; for he confessed it was the
clergy that beguiled hint to do e r il; and made him
tempt the Woman to commit evil also, that she m ight
fo U from t r u e o bbo Ib n Ce . So here is the fell
changed; here is the scene changed. The woman is
broughtagainto tau E o b e d ie n c e , and it is men and
devils that are trying to tempt her to disobedience;
but no man can prevailagainst her,and noweapon that
is forpned against her shall prosper, and everytongue
that is against her shall fall for her sake ; for here
die old creation sh all die, and all things shall begin
htiffto; so ho longer let it be said the woman be­
guiled me, and 1 did eat; for he that eateth by the
woman’s directions, shall now eat of the Tree of
Life and live for ever in M b ; for then they shall eat
of my Flesh and drink of my Blood ; that meaneth,
I will make their vile bodies like unto m y globioos
B o u t , and they shall drink deep into my heavenly
Spirit, abd they shall find joy in believing: for he
that shall Come, now will come, and will not tarry.'
O ye blind leaders of the blind, why did 1 tell you
In my Gospel of MY Second Coming ? W h y did
the angels warn my disciples, that as in like manner
they saw m e ascending, they should see m e descend­
ing ? W h y did all my disciples warn men o f my
Second Coming ? And why did the prophets say, I
should be the desire of every nation, and the govern­
ment should be.upon my shoulders, for of my King­
dom there should be no end ? Heavens should be
filled with my majesty, earth with my goodness,
hell with my terrors ? Answer m e , ye blind Shepherds,
if all these Promises are not made in the Bible, by
God through his Son, that he should reconcile the
whole world unto God ? Then have you not made
ypuc God the liar ? Is not the devil now come in Man
instead of the Serpent, tobetray the Woman and con­
demn his Maker, that the Woman may never be
yoof helpmate fbr your good ? But how can the W o­
man be you* helpmate fbr your good without my
Digitized by Google
Spirit to assist her, and without my strength to sup­
port her ? For without m b site can do nothing, and
without m e ye are all nothing; then why have ye
turned back your letters ? W hy have ye refused m y
Spirit to redeem you from the Fall ? For I now tell
you all, till the fill of the Woman be freed, by her
perfect obedience unto God and Christy M an’s Re­
demption can never take place. Tell m b , ye men
that boast of learning,why the Fall came by the W o ­
man's disobedience i And that Fall has heen pro­
nounced from age to age to this day, and that Fall
came by the serpent, which was the devil speaking
in him, which brought the Fall. Then why do you
marvel, now I am come to redeem you from the Fall,
I should come speaking through the Woman, to
bring in the Redemption that was promised through
Christ, as the Fall came by the Serpent ? For that is
the way 1 shall triumph over death, hell, and the
grave. As the Serpent triumphed over the creation,
and over the works of the Lord, when he brought
the Woman to disobedience, so shall I triumph over
hell, by the Woman’s true obedience, and by her
withstanding all the fiery darts of the Deril.”
A PART OF THE HISTORY OF JOANNA, WHILE SHF,
CONTINUED WITH MR. WILLS*.
“ The next communication I shall give unto thee
concerning W ills; why 1 sent thee into his house;
and why I recommended thee to live in the Jiouse.'
After Wills professed himself a Christian lover, too
great thou judgedst for a married man; and thy soul
trembled at the idea of his words, and determined
to leave the house, prayers and tears were thy pri­
vate companions, and thy resolution was fixed to
leave the house. Rut know, I told thee I wOuld
be with thee, and nothing should harm thee; for
in the fire I would be with thee, and in the water it
• Joamni’shistory while she lived with Mr. U'ilK begins in page IS
•T the bock coiled " The Little Mock ol* Sheep/’
6 )
Digitized by Google
should not drown thee: For in the ftridstoftemp-. •
tations I was the Rock of thy Defence. And now
I will tell thee wliy I suffered thee to endure temp­
tations: to bring to light the hidden things that
w ere done in darkness, because I knew the Day of
Judgment was near; and near they will find it.
And how I shall go from Wills’s pretended Chris­
tian love, who afterwards turned that love to malice,
envy, and;ridicule, by the arts of a malicious, wick­
ed, and lewd woman, whose heart was roving after
every man that she' could make the object of her
prey. Here I shall begin from the vice of a wicked
woman, arid compare her to the world at large; after
defiling her husband’s bed; after wounding her hus­
band's heart; after breaking the hearts of many mar­
ried women, orgriev.ng them to the heart by seduc­
ing their husbands; and grieving her own husband,
even' unto dust, that made him first fly to his ruin for
succour; (for thou hast notfaithfully told W ills'slus- i
tory, how he first told thee it drove him to drinking,
till he had brought himself to beggary, and expected 1
every day to be arrested for debt. This was the
first misery her sins brought upon him. The se­
cond misery he told thee, he thought to destroy
himself, as Mrs. Hern went to destroy herself, be­
cause her husband kept company with Mrs. W ills;
and Hern beat his wife out of doors at midnight, on
M rs. Wills's account. This, with many more of
the vices, W ills told thee, which thou hast never
penned.) After flying to h>9 ruin for succour, as he
told thee at first, he flew to religion for his comfort
at last, as he found no comfort in the vices he had
fractised. This was the state of Wills’s mind when
first sent thee to his house ; and thou judgedst him
a truly religious man, and didst respect him as a
master, that thou thoughtest a worthy good ntan.
But I knew the anguish, of thy soul, when Satan
tempted him to make religion his vices, "when he
broke off from the vices of the worlds Here .Sataa
laid a hook for thee ; and he, under pretence of
( 70 X
Digitized by Google
O 'l} <?<?-/<'
( 7 * )
religion,'to drawthee jbto ruin, and Wills $»6f if-his
arts could prevail;<
-though I know WiUs’s heart; at
first lie had no evil design, when he told thee thy
religion made him respect thee; arid I well knew
it was thy religion,' and. the beauty he saw-in thy
mind, which made.him love and esteem thee, hav-r
ing a wife-so great an adulteress, roving after eyery
man, and seeing in thee so different a mind,, drew
his heart with cords of love; and as I well knew
thee, that thou wert kept by my power, being
watchful;unto prayer, that men or devils could
not harm thee.. I prevented thy leaving the house
till I had shewn thee, them both in their true colours;
and from them I shall shew the world in its true co­
lours. ;For when thou hadst so far reproved Wills,
telling him how thou didst despise to hear .of lore
from a married man, he gave up all pretensions,
and Would have buried it in oblivion, had it not
been for his wife, who renewed the flames, by
Sanderson the methodist preacher, when his wife
shewed every attention to him before W ills's face.
Here begins the error in him ; and here begins an
error in thee— Though I reprove, I do not blame
thy want of fortitude, to tell him plainly his jealousy
was founded, on a right foundation, and that he
ought to turn the man; from his house.— Here are
the.ruin and folly of mankind ; here are the folly,
and destruction of the world: fearing you should
wound people’s feelings, and bring them into a pre- .
sent trouble, you let them go on till they add sin to
sin, sorrow to sorrow, and woe to woe, bringing on
themselves swift destruction. Now see what fol­
lowed in W ills: thy concealing the knowledge from
him, and thinking thou wouldest act with prudence
to get Sanderson out of the house, without ever
-letting W ills know of his conduct with his wife,
gave Sanderson and her an opportunity by arts, to
work jealousy towards thee, that he might take her
part, and cast the whole on thee. Thus Wills, be*
Digitized by L s O O Q l e
( n )
fogiomtiMra lie had loyed tfce#, throw guilt e * hi*
own se>f, toot considering thy tittoe and innocence,
how thon veptowodst him, and how unjust then
toldest hint it was for tomarried man to indulge a
thought of another: and if hit lore was not sinful,
Satan would work in him to make it sinful; and that
thou might say unto him, os thy Saviour said unto
Pieter, * Satan hath a desire to bare chee, that be
may sift thee like wheat’— But may the Lord keep;
you, that your faith fail n o t! Do not do as Spirt
did, after putting his hand to the Gospel Plough;
fall back a prey to the devil. W ills’s answer was,
He knew his own heart better; he had too much
religion to hurt any one; and that he would not
bring a disgrace upon religion for five hundred
pounds. Remember the answer thou madest him :
he that trusteth his own heart is a fool; and if ha
would trust his heart, thou wouldest never trust thine.
This was the manner of thy disputing with Wills,
and was as well known to m b as it was to thee; for
my eye was present, and my angels that were thy
guardians, were standing b y ; for every footstep of
thine has been known to m e , from thy youth up
to this day : and to prove thy virtue and innocence,
I have permitted thee to be tried by every art that
men and devils can invent; for an untried faith is
no feith ; and an untried virtue rs no virtue. There- i
fore 1 permitted thee to be tried to the utmost; and
to the utmost I have kept thee from all the arts of
men and devils.”
'* And now I shall come further to Wills. As Sa­
tan tempted him to be guilty of an Unjust passion
for thee, to love thee with such tender afte&ion, be­
cause his wife was such an adulteress; therefore Sa­
tan worked in him afterwards, that he ought to seek
the ruin of that virtue and innocence, which he had
jpo artfully seeked to betray; and that adulterous
wife, that he had so much spoke against, he ought
in honour to support. Here is the world in its true
Digitized by G o o g l e
Ls'3
n )
colours.— And now I shall come to Marshall the
minister, whom he appealed to. When thou
livcdst in Marshall’s house, Wills came to get thee
out of thy pface. After Wills was gone, Marshall
told thee of the information W ills had given against
thee. Thou toldest Marshall it was false; and en­
treated him to have Wills and thee face to face, and
thou wouldest clear up every truth before him. This
Marshall promised to d o; but he went from his
word. As Wills was a man of some substance in his
parish, so he went to Wills’s house, and listened
to all Wills’s lies, and came home and turned thee
out of service. This made thee sue for a law suit,
to clear thy character ; and Wills appeared with his
two false witnesses, and perjured two ignorant wo­
men. This was done by the minister's neglect—
which 1shall bring to the nation at large. For, had
Marshall cleared .up the truth between Wills and
thee, the law suit would have ceased, and the per-
jury would not have been committed. But know
what followed Marshal!— and the same shall follow
the clergy,, that now refuse to search out the truth.”
— Marshall lost his senses years before he died ; and C
I have been told that it was shocking to hear the
noise he made.—■
*• N ow from the words where thou hast ended
I shall further answer here:
A ll this thing it was intended
For to make all mysteries clear.
Yet strange my ways you see to be,
M y footstep’s none can trace—
In Woodford House, ’twas known to M I<
Thou thoughtest to seek redress.
That l would free thy misery
From sore temptations there;
I said I d free. *tis known to thee,
And answer then thy prayer.
Unto mv word thou found'st thy Lord,
And chearfully did st g o ;
But little thought that l’d prepar'd
Another house of woe.
Unknown to thee my footsteps be.
As thou dost travel o n ;
K
Digitized by Google
Relying on thy every God,
'lh y sorrow*, ne'er di*cern*<3
,
That in a house 1did prepare
T hy greatest grief should break.
T w as I that drew thee in that snare—
I knew the serpent's net
W ou ld every way seek to betray*
As he did seek at first;
A nd in that house 1 did send thee,
And there his arts did burst;
A n angel there he did appear,
In every subtle art
M y wisdom he did never know,
W h y l did let thee smart;
Temptations strong on thee did come*
In every way to see
I was the Rock thou build'st upon,
N o man could baifle thee.
But had not 1that dwell on high
Have kept thee by my power,
The subtle arts that W ills did use
Might all thy strength devour;
Because a man to thee to come,
T o have a wife and none:
Adultery was said by me
T h e Marriage doth unthrone;
For I'll appear to answer here.
Her every vow she broke.
N o wedlock band in her did stand,
W hich made thee feel the stroke;
Pity in thee was seen by me,
T o see his heart to burn,
Daily wounded by jealousy, ,
And his complaiuts did come;
In sorrow there he did appear
In grief before thy view;
A n d every way sought to betray
A heart sojust and true:
And yet the man to me was known—
Satan deceiv'd him first;
H e never thought for to betray,
Nor have thy honour cast
N o : love was strong, to me ’twasknown
In innocence at first;
Had not his wife a harlot been,
M y rage, like thine, would burst;
I'd bid thee go, as thou didst do,
And leave the tempter there;
N o married man to thee should come,
T hy heart for to ensnare.
But surely I who dwell on high
Such marriages forbid;
W h en every oath is broken there
Say not tne man was wed.
( 74 )
Digitized by Google
( 7S )
I tell you N o : it is not so;
N o wedlock could be there.
W h en every oath and vow were broke,
' W h at altar can you clear,
T o say you stand in wedlock’s band }
W here wives are so prophane;
And roving after every man
You can no marriage claim.
This thing you see ordain'd by iu t
For l did it permit,
T o shew the harlots every where#
The> double sin commit;
Because at first the oath doth burst#
Untotny altar com e;
A n d after that they do disgrace
Their husbands and my name; /
They mock their God, they mock my w
o
rd
#
They mock my altar too,
They mock the oath that they havcspoke^.
Bring all before your view:
Such harlots here, can they appear
T o say that they are tied,
In wedlock’s band that they do stand *
But here they re all denied;'
M y Gospel see your Law to b e ;
The* are no wives at all*
Therefore let no man now blame thee,
And say it was from hell,
That sent thee there all things to clear:
No, no: they’ll find ’twas I,
The God o f Heaven whose Laws were given
The harlots to defy.
N o greater sin on earth is done
Than such adultery;
The first be bound by marriage vows
And then to others Hee
Then can you stand in wedlock’s bands?
No, no, I tell you n o :
W h oe’er do break their marriage vows#
And do a whoring go,
They are surely fiee, i now tell thee#
That innocence posses?.
W h oe erdo break their marriage vows
M y Gospel doth express,
T o free them all; and now I call
N o woman married here,
That goes a whoring from her Lord#
O r ii^band to appear;
A n d just the same Lsay o f man#
I f he a whoring go
H e cannot say the wife is tied#
Bound to ab oath by law ; .
W h en he hath broke the words he spoke*
W h ere’s then liis marriage band?
K 2
Digitized by
r
] tell you plain I did ordain
T o bring this to the land*
That every one may see their sins
They daily do commit,
Before my altars to repair
And break the oath they make.
Then by yoilr law they’re freed you know,
And so theyYe freed by m in s .
And now l say no married men
E ’er sought the heart was thine;
Because the word was broke, o f God»
H er vows she’d broken there—
A n d let them tremble at toy rod,
For 1shall soon appear,
T o tell them plain: ye sons of men,
Your sins tne deepest dye,
Before my altar to appear -
A n d then your oaui deny.
Y o u will not stand, nor give your hand,
As you did promise there: •
T he greatest harlots in the land
Are those so fake do swear,
Then whoring go, you all shall know, *
And still to claim the word,
That you are bound unto-the law—
N o : tremble at your God,
That will appear, i tell you here, '
Consuming fire to be!
Such marriages 1will never own
As was with W ills and she.
N o : I will clear thy honour there;
H e was no married m an;
Though in his house thou could st not bear
T o hear Trim to condemn
His wife so great, full of deceit;
And thou in grief didst mourn;
His words to hear thou could'st not bear,
And made thy heart to bum
In jealousy, Ywas known to me,
And fear’d to tarry there.
But it was I that le*' thee on
The end of all to clear,
That thou mayest see the infamy
O f what should follow next.
W h en Sanderson in the house appear'd^
Thou sawest her heart was fixt 1
Upon the man, thou sawest h strong.
And W ills he did abuse,
A n d all his ways b$ did condemn,
And bid her him refuse.
This thou didst see as well as me,
And trembled all to hear:
Bat well I knew the heart of taee,
T he anger thou didst fear
( 76 ) '
Digitized by Google
£ J 3
That thou should’st make if thou didst speak*
T o stop her every hand,
Forgetting that thcie was a G od
W h o did the whom discern.
So by thy folly thou didst stand
Silent the whole tosee;
But here the mystery now command:
She ea t the whole on thee*
Guilty there did then appear,
T h e innocent was cast.
And thou in trembling didst appear.
T o see her fury bunt;
Upon thy head it all w^s laid,
Her ever)' guilt to free—
Oh England, now mark what is said,
This is the Type of thee l
T bou dost appear, i tell th^e here.
So much like Wills's wife,
T h y infamy this way to clear,
A n d so bring on thy strife
N ow against one, to me is known,
From all adulteries free;
A n d yet the harlots do condemn,
Like W ills’s wife they be.
But you may stop, your time’s near up,
For 1shall answer here;
T h e harlots every one shall drop—
I'll not like W ills appear,
T o own the brides are by my side,
That do a whoring go.
M y Law and Gospel a ll’s denied,
And that they all shall know;
M y Law* is broke, my Gospel mock’d,
My Bible you deny;
Then how can you so boldly speak,
T o say you’re brides to m e?
I tell you N o ; you ail shall know,
You’re just luce Wills's wife;
And just like he, you shepherds be,
This way you'd end the stfife;
Like him appear, I tell you here,
For just lite him you're come;
You do profess to love me here,
And just like W ills you’ve done.
H e did pretend to be thy friend,
And lov’d thy every name;
A n d then the harlot to defend,
H e did my honour shame.
So just like he my shepherds be—
The harlots you support,
Though you pretend to love m y name*
You do my honour hurt
( 77 )
Digitized by G o o g l e
Wednesday, July 25th. Joanna was told that the
D ay of Judgment was begun, for the Sainrs to judge
the Earth : and they must judge between men and
Joanna; and between the devil and Joanna. There­
fore her life is ordered to be in print.
Continued, W ednesday, the 25th o f Ju ly , 1804.
4
4The Type is deep, O h ! shepherds weep.
Like W tils you’re ail become;
A n d fioqi his love I now will prove,
Like \Vills you all have done.
For I II appear. I tell you here, *
T o place myself the vine;
And she's the branch 1now shall clear,
T o bring it to mankind.
His love to thee, let all men see,
For virtue it was plac'd;
From thy religion, ne did say,
H e wish'd for to embrace
So noble a mind, as he did find
W as plac’d in thee below;
And therefore wish'd thee to prove kind,
T o let his folly go
T ill it might run, to sin become,
But that prov'd W ills’s end;
1 A nd bv the harlot this was done;
A na this was my intend,
T o bring it round: the world might find,
T he Type of W ills goes deep;
For just like he ten thousands be,
' And so their end will break.
They do appear as W ills did there,
Profess to love my name,
M y virtues in their minds to bear,
And set their hearts in Hame.
For 1know some, like W ills, become
So great in love with me;
A n d perfect true, I well do know,
* Their perfect love to be;
Until I come, as thou didst then,
His rival to destroy;
And perfect so l now tell men,
You may your wives enjoy;
I’m come to cast, I’m come to burst
Upon your rival foe.
So thou to Sanders • did appear,
T h y fury let them know;
W h en thou didst come to see the man,
That did in rage appear,
Thou told’st him o f his every hand
In W ills’s absence there.’*
• H e is otherwise called Sanderson, which is his right name.
( 78 >
Digitized by Google
Here I am ordered to pen what I told him in
W ills’s absence. Having seen the conduct of San­
derson, whilst lie was in Wills's house, trying to
set Mrs. Wills against her husband ; and to seduce .
the wife and daughters to himself, at the same time
M r. Wills maintained him in a most extravagant
manner. This was a thing that wounded my heart
and conscience. I knew not how to acr. I thought
if I told Wills of it, that it would make him more
wretched and miserable than he was before : as he
told me ofmany men his wife had been caught with
in adultery ; and Garrick told me of many more.
This made me wish to get Sanderson out of the
house, without letting .Wills know his conduct to­
wards his wife and his daughters; but as I was gone
from Exeter to M u sherry, which is twenty-five
miles distant, and had sent private letters to her to
no purpose; and to Sanderson also, that I should
discover his conduct to M r. Wills, if he did not
leave the house; but- all to no purpose. I then put
myself to the expence of a journey to go from M us-
berry to Exeter. When I came to Wills’s house,
she was not up. I waited in tlie house some time,
when she came down in fury, and said, “ You im­
pudent wench ! what do you do here, oefore I am
up ? W hat hast thou told thy master ? Thou hast
told him all thou knovvest; and thou wantest to
cut my throat.” I said, I had told him nothing;
and both Wills and his children assured her 1 had
told them nothing. But Wills asked what it was,
that he was not to know ? They then said they would
send for Sanderson, for him to punish me, whxh
they did. When he came into the house he looked like
fury, and swore by the eternal God, he would pu­
nish me. He had forgiven many ; but me, he said,
he would punish. He called the Three-one God
to swear to those lies in one, which was that he had
never touched me or kissed me in his life. I said,
1 had nothing to lay to his charge concerning my- _
y ( 79 )
Digitized by Google
self; for T never had been in Ms company alone; bat
what I had against him, I would tell him, if M r. W ills
would quit the room. M r. W ills asked why he must
nor know? Itold him I would not tell before him. M r.
W ills rose up and went out of the room. I then told
Sanderson of his behaviour with Mrs.Wills, of what I
had seen and heard myself; and how he had persuaded
her never to mind her husband, and of his behaviour
with her daughters; and what they had told me
themselves, which they then denied, and the mother
also; and said I wanted to cut their throats. K it
Folly said she would tell her father of what I said of
Sanderson’s behaviour to her mother; but they said
she should not. So I went out of the house and left
them; and was informed afterwards that they told
W ills all I- had against him was the lie that he had
sworn; because he had saluted me once, which they
all remembered; but I never mentioned it to him ;
because a religious man might have done that, as it
was after he had returned from some journey, and
he saluted all the women in the house, before be
went to bed. But this was the forged story they
made up to W ills; and from that time Mrs. Wills
began to seek all the revenge she could against me;
and to accomplish her designs pretended jealousy,
to make her husband join with her, which he did,
as you have seen in the former part of the history.—
But one thing more I must pen : the beginning of
Sanderson's coming to W ills’s, he used to ter­
rify all the people when he was in prayer; and was
often telling what wondrous miracles he had wrought
by prayer; and that he had, at a meeting, made
the whole society lie stiff upon the floor, till he had
got the evil spirits out of them; and I remember
myself, once at a class meeting, a religious, good
man shrieked out in such a manner as though he
had sent an evil spirit into him ; but I cannot say he
ever had any power over m e: only I used to think
the room was full of spirits, when he was in prayer:
and he was so haunted by night, that he never
( 80 )
Digitized by Google
could sleep in a room by himself; but the excuse
he made was, that his wife came every night to
'trouble him; therefore he had wakers or some
one to sleep in the room with him. This, before
I saw his wretched conduct, threw my mind
in a confusion about him ; and made me earnest in
prayer, that I might know by what spirit he did all
these miracles. To which I was answered, I should
take the Bible in my hand and open it ; which I
>did, and it was in the 19th chapter, of the Revela­
tions, 20th verse. I cast my eyes on— “ The beast
was taken, and with him the false prophet, that
worked miracles before him, with which he deceived
them that had received the mark of the beast, and
them that worshipped his image ; these both were
cast alive into a lake of fire burning with brimstone.”
I then was answered, he was the false prophet, which
did his miracles wrought by devils; for that was
the meaning of the beast. But Sanderson affirmed
that his miracles were from the Lord, who gave
him power to destroy all his enemies ! ! For he said
there never was a man so highly favoured of God as
he was: and he would not thank God to make him
any thing, if he would not make him greater than
any man upon earth, and give him power above all
men. I told him, it was happy for him, if the
lyord had given him that power, and favoured him .
abov^ all men upon earth ; but, on the contrary,
if it was not so, his end would be fatal in hell. A t
which he’ laughed, and said, “ Yes, I will take
care to get a good warm corner there.” This ans- .
wer shocked me ; and I never could bear him after­
wards. . But the servants in the house were afraid
of him ; as they heard of.the death of a inan at
Plymouth, that had reproved Sanderson’s conduct;
and when Sanderson heard he was dead, he said he
had fasted and prayed three days and three nights,
that the Lord would take vengeance on that man,
and send him to eternity. This made Wills’s fa-*
L
' ( 61 )
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
f )
mily and servants afraid ofhitn, and said they would
not speak against him for the world, fearing he
would send them to eternity. But I had no fears o f
that sort; for it heightened my malice and hatred
against him ; because I always felt in my own heart
to pray for my enemies, that the Lord would con­
vince them and turn their hearts, before they went
to eternity. Were I to go through all Sanderson’s
wonders and miracles that he told of, and all the
wretched deeds that he did, I might fill many sheets
of paper: for not half the history of W ills’s family
and Sanderson is penned.— “ Now I shall answer
(lice this history of Sanderson. He is, as I told
thee, the false prophet that did all these miracles
wrought by devils; and I have already told thee
how he wrought them. And now let men read that
chapter through, and judge for themselves.— For
that reason I sent thee to W ills’s house ; for that
reason I kept thee in W ills’s house till Sanderson
appeared, that thou mightest see his conduct with
thy own eyes, and hear his words with thy own
ears; for' how canst thou affirm as truth the words
of another.”
A Continuation o f W ills and Sanderson. W ednesday
E ven in g, Ju ly 0
.5th, 1804.
** Now I will tell thee why I kept silence
and said nothing till thou hadst been to sleep t be-,
cause the history thou hast here penned, though
they wearied thee out of thy life, and made thee as
forgotten, like a dream, that they should hear no
more of it ; but know, I told thee, as soon as thy
Trial was over, thou shouldest write thy history of
W ills and Sanderson, and the history of thy whole
life, for all should go in print. Thou then didst obey
in writing; but thy friends persuaded thee out of it,
that it was not the Lord’s command ; but as m y time
was not come to have it printed, I kept silence, and
Digitized by U o o Q L e
said no more unto thee, so thou destroyedst the writ­
in gs thou hadst taken so much pains to pen; but
when I visited thefc in 170 2, I visited thde with
power, as well as with words; and though thy friends
m ade the same effort to prevent thy going on, as
th ey had before, to publish to the world, yet, now
all was vain, all was fruitless, for my appointed time
w as come—
And now in verse I shall begin.
T o echo back the lines to men: 0
From the Fake Prophet I’ll appear,
That with the Beast I did com paie;
Because the beast Was in the man,
H e boasted o f wonders from me come.
Then sure a prophet he must be,
I f he was favour d as he said.
Above all men, so high o f God, .
T o govern with my powerful rod.
But from Myself, Til answer here,
Favour'd by me, he never were;
•
> From Satan's arts came all his skill, .
And all his wonders came from hell;
So tfifh the beast thou didst first contend,
O r the false prophet in the man;
And thy false friends, that bore his mark,
Join'd boldly with him in the dark,
Until they brought thy Trial on.
T h e Shepherd acted like the man,
But thou thyself sued for the law—
T h e Type is deep, you all must know,
Because 1 told thee o f the end,
Great judgments on them 1 should send;
But what is past they don't discern,
N or in what manner 1 do warn ;
But n ow Tll bring the judgments on,
And they shall know the time is come
That earth s foundation 1 shall shake,
And make their stubborn hearts to break,
I f they do not repent in hast?.
I tell thee there's no time to waste;
For Fm the Judge that shall appear:
T h e Great Assize for all draws near—
And now my Counsellors all shall see,
Like Roberts’ words in men shall be,
Because thy cause they will defend.
T h e shadow first foretells the end *
,
} ecause the jury at the fir t
Granted thee thv Bill, and own’d it just; *
And when thy Trial did appear,
T h e y cast thy foe and thee did dear;
L 2
( 83 )
Digitized by Google
So W ills the Trial then he lost,
Though’ his false witness proud did bojut
That she would make thee black as Hell*
As from his rage, her rage did swell.
But all her rage did swell in vain,
And all the arts they then could gaixt
' Could never free her roaster there;
And pale as death he did appear,
T o hear the words to him tnou spoke
O f the false witness he had got,
W hich then the jury did condemn.
And so it was by every man. •
His Counsellor was fierce at first:
Mark, with what fury he did burs^
T o have the witnesses appear*
And mock’d all thy religion there;
And so he went to mock the whole,
T o bring destruction on them alL
This was the Counsellor W ills had plac’d,.
So perfect like this fallen race,
T o mock religion at the first,
And after that haye perjury burst,
Because the witness ne did try
By every word to make them lie;
And to' nis words they both did swear,
Thinkine to gain the Trial there;
Whilst thou stood singly there alone,
And to thy Counsellor didst complain.**
So here v:e ended, W ednesday, Ju ly *
15, 1804J
( 84 )
Thursday., Ju ly 26, 1804.
This morning after eight o’clock Joanna went
to sleep, and dreamt she was in the most beauti­
ful street that ever was seen, and the light
•was so beautiful, that she cannot describe i t ;
it was neither like day-light, nor like moon-light;
but an uncommon light, such a one as she never
Saw before, brighter than day- light, and appeared
beautiful.— “ I thought l looked forward, and I
looked backwards, and I saw the beauty of the
light each way,- sparkling like diamonds. I thought
I was walking in the street, and some one with me;
I desired them to take notice of the light, that it
was not dayflight, because it was quite dark the
pther side of the street. I took notice of-the pave-
Digitized by Google
t s M v > *■ / / S + s
( )
ment, but it was in such a beautiful' manner that
I cannot describe either ; it was not broad stone,
but more like marble pavement. I thought I was
•going along admiring the pavement and the light,
when all on a sudden * hall-storm came, and I
turned about to go to a house, but in an instant was
taken up in the ait*, and carried along through the
storm. I thought the hail came very fast, and I
did no** feel the least inconvenience from it. A t
l&<f, I was brought to a shed, and carried in under
the shed, and let down inside of some paHisades ; I
fell upon my face, and thought a little wet dirt came
just at my breast., which I thought I should be
able to rub off when I was taken ou t; so l lay con­
tented waiting for the guide to come for me again,
which he did, and took me out and carried ihe
through the air to the most beautiful places 1 ever
saw. At last, I perceived myself as it were, sit­
ting in a man’s lap, who was in regimentals; both his
arms were clasped round me, and he held me fast
with both hands. I thought I longed to look at
his face, but could not In this manner I thought
we were both carried through the air ; and at last
I thought something jerked me, and I awoke and
found myself in my bed, perfectly happy, heavenly,
and chearful; and I seemed to feel perfectly well in.
health.
THE ANSWER OE THE SPIRIT.
“ Now this Dream td thee I'll answer,
O f the feiGHT that did appear
In tlie street where thou wert walking.
Pav’d with every beauty there.
Now from the Dream I shall explain
The Light that thou didst see;
Backward and forward to appear,
In sparkling light to be.
Now fiom the light behold this sight.
Backward th¥ Life all trace,
. And then thouvlt see like diamonds bright.
It is thy G o o o r Grace
Ila^ carried theethrough thy life o f woe.
When darkness there was seen,
because the other side anj card
in to thee dark atfd dim.
Digitized by Google
$ * in the dark thou wanderestfint
In sorrow, grief, and wo^,
But now the L ight to thee shall burst*
And \nit thou shalt go
T h e hail m&y come to fell on man*
As it did on ttv* corn *;
B at I shall raise thechv M y H a m *
And nothing thee shaivharm;
But in the shed, where thou_*u»rt laid#
T h e dirt may be at first,
Because by ignorance may be said*
T h a t thou thyself hast cast*
Tor to declare a lover here
Was o f a married man ;
And in that house thou didst repair
T o stay by in v command.
This thing tney’U blame, this thing tbeyll sham?.
T h e harden'd soqs o f men; . '
And harlots here may now appear
T h y virtue to condemn;
Because they'll say another way—
u W e d leave the house with speed;
* Herself she surely did betray
* T o make a harlot bleed.
*
*Her virtue there we can t see cleat*
•• In such a house to dwell,
* W here nought but harlots in it were;
* “ The words must come from hell,
uThat bid her stay, we plain do see * *
This many now* will c ry ;
Therefore my judge and jury’s fix'd
T o judge the cause o f thee.
A n d from the light behold the sight*
That did to thee appear,
Backward and forward bid them look
T o make my Bible clear.
X did ordain this very thing,
And bid thee there to got
And in the house I bid tnee stay*
Though 'tw
inin griefand woe;
T o she# you clear toe chapter there*
The prophet that is penn'd,
From hell nig wonders ever were*
And there thev all must end.
But now from thee, let all men see
T h e chapter so is plac'd,
T h e T>ambs W ife must appear to be
Against all hell to burst:
Therefore the man thou didst condemn*
H ad I not kept thee there*
• This alludesr to an extraordinary hail-storm, that fell about
Maiton Moor, in Yorkshire, on the 5th o f July, 1804. The hail­
stones were as large as marbles, and the impetuosity so great, that in
two minutes the grbund was covered four inches thick. It was ac­
companied with much thunder and lightning, and the com within
its extensive range was cpiite destroyed.
Digitized by
( 9t )
Thou never coukfst against him cdtae
T o make a]j mysteries clear;
T o prove to man the time is com e
M y Bible to fulfil.
For there you see they both do stand,
N ow ju dge things as you w ill;
T h e W ife is first, aud so she's plac'd*
A n d there thou first didst go,
A n d know the sorrows thou exprest
W h en W ills fill'd thee with woe.
T h ou would’st not stay, thou oft didst say*
T w a s 1 that kept thee th ere:
So in the dirt thou'rt thrown by m i *
I f men do mock thee here ;
Because 'twas 1 who dw ell on high
/ D id every step ordain,
T o shew the love in W ills did lie*
So like the sons o f men.
L ik e him they love, like him they p ro ve-*
PretendtoloveM y N ame.
But now I'm come to cast the man*
T h e shadow I’ll begin:
T h e shadow first in man did burst*
* A n d the false prophet there.
A s it o f Sanders now is plac'd,
T h en see m y Bible c le a r:
T h e Beast with he in hell must b e ;
T h en how can men dispute
It Is to make m y Bible clear,
H ow 1 shall strike the root
T h e shadow first from thee did burst*
W ith Sanders to b egin ;
T h e substance next 1 now have fix'd
W ith Satan1 shall end.
So from you three the shadow see*
T h e World I’ll place as one;
Because like W ills ten thousands be*
A n d turn their love to scorn.
B y harlots, here, that do appear
T o take the Devil's part;
F or so their m alice doth appear*
T ill they bring on the sm art
I tell thee strong upon this land
T h e hailstones fast w ill break*
A n d all their houses on the sand
1 tell them now w ill sink.
Jv
l
* V$ L ik e Marshall here my Shepherds are*
7 T o let them to go on,
Because the truth they w ill not clear*
T o stop the rising storm.
So W ills * w ife brought on the strife*
A n d peijury follow’d th ere;
Because they judg'd there was no G od
In judgm ent to appear,
T h a t judgm ent strong is coming ofi*
A n d that they'll surely find;
Digitized by Google
( * )
T h sd ay to W ills will soon be known*
Then let him see his wife*.
That he carress'd and he so bless'd9
In vice for to appear.
A n d of his own, when conscience gone*
Let him look back with fear,
And say* “ in hell must l now dwell,
“ I f I do not repent?—
* Like a trembling jailor let me fill
“ Before the pit is shut
* T o keep me in, in hell to burn
“ M y back's not iron here,
* Nor yet o f brass my sinews strong*
MIn hell for to appear."
So now let him in grief begin*
I f he will shun my dart:
And let bis wife in sorrowmourn*
I f she will shun the smart,
A l hell to lie and there to cry.
W hen all do come too late.
I tell them hasty to repent,
Before the door is shut
Their honour here they cannot clear;
T is well known they have none—
But as'Isent thee to the house,
My mercies shall be shewn.
I f they'll repent, and now' relent*
O f all that they have done ;
But if they'll not I'll tell their lot*
Their ruin's hastening on.
So I ’ll end here, and say no more—
The Type o f W ills does stand,
Just as your nation do appear,
For so is all your land."
Now I shall answer thee in plain words of W ills’s
pretended love to thee, or his real love to thee, as
I know the.heart of the man. Once it was a real,
and a true Christian love— Just so are thousands in
the world professing their love to m e, as Wills did to
thee ; some I know to be real, and some I know to
be deceit. But now I am come to strike at the root
of all evil, as thou goest to strike the branch' in
Sanderson ; there, their love is turned like W ills’s.
For they that pretend to love m b rafc>st, now perse­
cute me most; because they are stirred up by the
devil, as W ills was by his wife; and they think they
are bound in wedlock to remain with the world, the
flesh, and the devil; and they are persecuting of
Digitized by
m e for putting that evil frcn them, as Wills perse­
cuted thee for putting Sanderson from him, or tel­
ling his crimes that he might, do it— S a l compare
W ills with the Christian world, that boast of the
great love they have for me ; but now I have put
them to the trial of their love, they are persecuting
m e , as Wills persecuted thee. The adulterous world
that persecute thee, is perfectly like W'dls’s wife,
that would sooner have Satan remain than-sin to be
destroyed : So now they may go with their master
whom they so highly prize ; for I shall now cut
off both root and branch, and they may enjoy
themselves together. If they think there is plea­
sure in sin, they shall go .where there is nothing else
but sin ; and let them all own with shame and con­
fusion of face, they have got their deserts. But,
unto them that fear my N a m e , and are longing
for.the K ingdom of C hrist to be established,
on them shall the Sun of Righteousness arise with
healing in his wings ; and they shall grow up as
calves in the stall; and tread down the wicked a"$
ashes under their feet: For now I say, with Jehu,
“ W ho is on my side? who? who is it ?” These that
fear the Lord speak often one to another, that
the Lord listened and heard, and a book of re­
membrance was written*—and they shall be mine in
the day that I make up my jewels ; and I will spare
them as a man spareth his own son, that serveth.
him ; for these are they whom my Bible affirmetli
to save : That shall say, what hath the Lord said,
and what hath he spoken concerning us ? These are
the people that shall rejoice in the God of their
salvation, and shall say with joy, “ This is the
L ord, we have waite^ for him.” And their w ait-
ing shall not he in vain in the Lord.
/ , ( 89 )
M
Digitized by G o o g l e
sHy c i/c^
sjL '/frrQ €+u/£'T+J V?
. f go ) & r v r
The continuation o f the explanation o f the Vision o f
Thursday, the 20th Ju ly , 1804.
! •
Friday, Ju ly 2 7 , 1804.
Stt fr S
Now I'll appear to answer here
The Vision I began:
And now the dirt f mean to clear
T h e way I shall go on.
I'll raise thee from the mire and clay;
H I raise thee from the pit;
ril raise thee to the brightest day.
The way l now shall break.
For H I go on in armour strong;
M y armour they shall wear,
And by my hand f'll guide thee on.
There's none have room to fear.
Because the man in armour came
T o guide thee safely through.
And firmly held thee by the hand.
N o dangeis thou didst know
Was in the wav, to thee I say,
But heavenlyjoys thou’st tee!,
Ahd wishing tnen my face to see,
W hich was beyond thy skill.
•Twas but the hand thou didst discern
Was cloth'd in armour there:
And now my hand shall come to man.
My armour they shall wear;
F o rth put on my armour strong
Upon the sons o f men;
And they shall know before 'tis long
Hell’s rage is all in vain.
From Sanderssee the Type of he;
He did not long stay theie.
But from the city he did flee—
And Satan, now take care!
For just the same to thee shall come,
Though mischief thou'st work'd great;
But l have told thy final doom,
And now I'll it complete.
M v friends are here, in grief appear,
In cursed arts from thee;
But now, like Sanders, thee I'll clear,
And thou like him shall flee.
. Because my love they now.shall prove.
T o guide them safely through;
T h e armour strong I'll put on man;
M y S pir it they shall know
Shall come on man for armour strong—
And let my coat appear
A ll stain'dw
ithredf ana dipt inblood,
Thisarm
ourtheym
ust w
ear:
Digitized by Google
( 91 ) .
That fs to see the love of me,
And point it out to men,
And asR them how they can agree
To say I died for them, -
And ncer redeem frpm hell and nn ?
Then sure I died in vain!
This is tke armour they must wear, '
With ail wen to contend;
And say, 4
4her handweII hold it strong
4
4And holdher to htr -word, *
4
4She says her 1,oR
Dis surely come *
4
4For to avenge his blood .
44'On Satan's head, asshe hath said; .
4
4So nowwell hold her there. -
4
4The WOman's Promise is her plead,
4
4Then whathavewe to fear ? .
4
4Weknowatfirst, the wordswereplac'd
4
4God’s Promise he’ll fulfil; .
4
4And if her hand do this command,
4
4By her obedience still, .
4
4Well hold her so, she shall not go
4
4Fromtas no other way.
4
4It is the armour ofour 'God, -
4
4Our Bibles so do lay;
4
4So wellgo on in armour strong, *
4
4And trust upon the word.
4
4We know, from her it never came—
4
4No: all is from theL ord, ,
4
4Whose armour strong did carry on
4
4The W oman to this dav;
4
4And now tojoin her we are come;
4
4'Tis God we now obey. ,
4
4Becausefromhell,where daHcnes*dwells,
4
4No likeness we do see; ,
4
4And as tojudge it from herself— . -
4
4Impossibleto be!
4
4For to bring round in every sound
4
4The wisdom here is placcl,
4
4The learned world for toconfound,
4
4And bathe all therest
4
4That now stand out so full of doubt.
4
4In Wills we sec themstand,
4
4A mystery man could not find out,
4
4Why God should this command,
4
4To make her go in grief and woe; •
4
4Love she despis’d to hear:
4
4But now theworld, wc see them so,
4
4Like Wills they doappear.
4
4When she did come for to condemn
4
4The man that was his foe,
4
4His love toanger he did turn: .
4
4We knowthe world is so.”—
Fbr thousands here do so appear,
Profess they love their God :
>1 2
Digitized by Google
( 9« )
But nowI'm come the whole to clear*
They d soonei bung the rod
Upon then head*, a* W u is did lead—
•
lor there the Type goes deep
To screen the roan hedid become '
At fiist to makethee weep;
But sure the next on himis fix'd,
For he must weepmore sore,
Or else in hell* where Satan dwells*
he'll feel his grief much more
Than he c?n bear, 1 tell him here9
If he do notrepent. *
This with the nation I compare:
Like him their heartsaie bent
The foe to free, as well as he,
They blame that I am come
To publish Satan's infamy
And tfien tocast him down.
So W illis here dostrong appear,
I say throughout the land^
Pretepded lovers i'll not clpar, ~
That now like W in s do stand;
In anger turn, in rage to burny
That Satan l shall cast:
And here'sa likeness of the man
In P o m e r o y strong didburst
So l 1
1go on fromman to man9 .
And ah with W tu s compare*
That now refuse thv written hand*
And W i U i t grief they’ll share. ’
The Tbial strong is comingop*
And that they all will find;
My counsellors shall then beknown*
And jury fast shall bind.
Thy every foe they then shall know$
,
My armour they shall wear5
And by thyhand I'll hold thee sp
That thou hast nought to fear. •
No dangers see shall come to thee;
My friends I’ll all protect;
Theenemies I’ll make themdee*
Though they may first deject
The heart of thine, when near the time,
But I’ve an arm that’s strong,
And all thy foes I'll so confine,
To bring thy Trial on,
Till on their head itshall belaid*
As W ills's fell that day. #
My jury cannot be betray’d; #
Aud solike them they'll say,
That thou art clear, I tell theethere,
The world they’ll all condemn,
Andsay they see themystery,
for just {ike W ills they have done.
Digitized by Google
But fromthis day, to thee I say,
Twas I that rais'd thee here
Out ofthy bed, this day togo 7
To shew the shadow clear. - *
For sure within my Spirit came '
, When thou didshew the sign,
To tell themwhat was pastandgone;
But when’t comes to the time, ' *
The shadow past, for I shall bunt .
In fury then more strong;
And as thy shadow it was plac'd,
That in my hand will come.
Supported there thouwilt appear, '
W ithgarm ents that are red . „
I donpt tell thee themto wear;
But knowit is my blood
Must then appear inscarlet there-^ "
Behold the scarlet dye 1
And what for man I once did v e a r , 7 „
. When pierc'd on Calvary l
Water and blood, behold the flood1 '
Behold the purple gore!
Then sure my clothingm ust be red,
When it wasspotted there;
All staind with blood the victim stood.
As 1 stood then for mau.
And so thy vision did appear,
When thou beheldst the hand
So close round theem red to be,
The face thou'st not discern'd;
And perfect sothe end will be . '
' A mystery untoman.
The hand they'll see in strength to be, ■
And wonders to go through;
And yet I say the face of me ~ ' '
That day they will not know.
I shan't appear, I tell them, there 1
. In PERSON LIK E M Y OWN j
But wondrous mysteries I shall clear, #
And Satan s power unthrone, ,
I s;Sy, from themthat love my name,
And sign to have me come.
They then shall see my every fame; -
For Satan I’|l condemn,
If he appear, li|ce Sanders, there
‘ I shallhim soonsurprize;
The words he'll tremble for to hear,
When I do him chastize^
His rage may swell almostfrom hell,
As Sanders rag'd at first.
But when his artsJo him I tell,'
He'll find that he is cast
Just like the man, 1 shall condemn
' Him for his every guilt;
( 93 )
Digitized by Google
And how Che L ord he did condemn,
My arrows shall be felt
for now I say, another way *
I’ll sorely place the deed:
Had W ils 's wife brought on the strife,
Then Sanders' heart roust bleed.
Had she appear’d against him there
And all his vices plac'd,
And how her children he'd ensnar'd,
Then Sanders must be east,
That very day, from all 1 say,
But she prolong’d his reign— -
And to this N a tio n now 1 say,
Like W i.,ls's wife vou ve gone:
That S n ta n s reign may now remain,
Until he hath ru.n d more:
Because*the land like her dothstand,
And so I’veanswer'd here.
Judge as you will, your hearts I’ll chill,
As W ills's 1’U chill soon,
Because a letter thou must send,
To make his heart to bum
with misery and jealousy;
For hemay fear to die;
And know the Judgment Day is near.
He trembling then may cry,
“ What £avc l dope, n>y sinsare come
** So fast upon my headt
4
0 All vices I’ve encourag'd on
“ Till now they strike me deadf
“ But if at first her words 1‘dplac*
“ Then strongbefore my view,
“ These miseries 1 shouldnever taste:
MBut how shajl 1 go thtougb
“ My sorrows heie that doappear?—
•* My hell is now begun !
m And this she toldme of before,
“ That so my end woutd come.
0
4 Like Peter here 1 did appear,
u As she said at the first;
“ But Spirn sec, the Type ofme; *
For so roy end must burst 1"
And yet, l say to thee this day,
If W ills will thus repent, -
I’ll free him of his infamy,
My anger I’ll relent; *
Ifheamiear in sorrowhere,
Confess the grimes he’th done,
And say his grief he cannot bear,
Nor try his guilt to shun;
Then I'll turn back the coming stroke
That’s coming o’er his head; -
But if inanger he appear,
His guilt shall strike him dead. -
( 94 )
•Digitized by Google
( 95 )
One o f the two he now must do—
A penitent become;
Confess in sin his life has been,
The virtuous to condemn;
Then kt him say another way—
“ H ^t I'll condemn no more;
4
4No longer virtue I’ll betray:
4
4I see she’s happy here,
4
4While l in grief do seek relief,
4
4Know not which way to fly;
4
4 My sins appear before me here,
4
41 tremble for to die!
And if I live can l retrieve
4
4My honour that is lost?
••And thisshe told me of before,
4
4When I did proudly boast
4
4 My heart I know would never go
4
4To act in things so wrong:
4‘ She said my heart I could not trufct;
** And true her words are come.
4
4Had I relied on all she said,
4
4This guilt I should not bear;
4
4She told me for tobe afraid,
4
4For Satan's arts were near—
4
4Ah, wretched man amI now come!”
Let this be W ills's cry,
Before hefeels his final doom—
The sentences are nigh,
I sav, ofall, nowjudge the call—
The Judgment Day’sat hand;
And happy nowshall be for all
That bold with me will stand.—
So 1 11end here andsay nomore:
But bid him to repent.—
Unto my friends I’ll now appear.
Forthere my mind is bent,
To turn to them that now will come
Like soldiers in thefight,
And all my armour nowput on,
I’llmake you men of might;.
Mv soldiers hereI’ll surely clear,
My Blood’snotshed invain.
If crimson dye in you do lie.
I’ll wash away the stain;
If scarlet here your sins appear.
I’ll make them white as snow,
If for my honour you appear
To wound the deadly foe,
That did begin to tempt to sin—
Your lives look back to see,
And if you say to me this day
Much happier now you be,
'Your vice to shun, to me to come, '
And wish my k in g d o m here;
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
( 96 V
T h en you shall know before 'tis long
Your joys shall bright appear: .
No enemy shall conquer ye,
If you this way go on,
To say you hate the course of sin.
Anil long for m e to come
To free you all from Adam's Fall,
Then from his Fall I’ll free,—
This is a vision for you all,
- A light no man can see,
That sparkles bright before yonrsight,
Like diamonds to appear;
But when 1 bring theday to light,'
With every truth appear,
^ Then you will say that very day,
“ Such light we ne'er didsee;
Theseall were mysteries hid from man.
But diamonds bright they be;
The pearl here doth now appear,
And the great prize is come;
Our Bibles ail we now see clear.
What we could ne’er discern.
No day-light here could make it clear,
No moon-light we behold;
Philosophers deceived were,
And shepherds' heartsgrew cold,
When in tne dark they miss'd the mark
Of this high calling great—
•‘ We little thought sosimple aspark
Should bring all things to light1’*
—
To make it shine in words divine,
And make my Bible clear,
And wonders peat that are behind
Will unto them appear;
Then they will see, as well as thee,
Twas I that held thy hand.
With garments redall stain'd in blood,
Andthou the T r i a l stand,
My blood to crave, mankind to save,
And Satan to be cast.
This is the way to man, I say,
For so the end must burst.
Can man appear, 1 ask you here, .
To cast on Satan's head
A guilt that he fromhim did free,
And on the Woman laid;
And me to blame, and me to shame,
He equally cast it there?
Then how can man to Satan come,
Against him to appear ?
No, no, 1 say to thee this day,
The Woman must condemn;
Because at first 'twas him she cast,
And so his curse mustcome.
Digitized by Google
Jtbl sifaple men, for to contend
In things you do not know;
•Tis with the Women you mustjoin#
I f you’ll destroy your foe;
Because that here 1 can't appear
Injustice to proceed,
Without aW oman, you see cleai#
Her promise for* to plead;
Made at the first, it How must burst*
As I have said before.
So by her hand you all must 6tand,
And wear my armour here;
That Is of love, the cause to prove,
And then your guilt I'll free.
The W oman’shand you must command
M y promise stands this way.—
So 111 end here and say no more;
But this to Foley send,
A nd tell him he hath nought to fear
T o read it ta a friend.
^Thursday Morning, A u g u st‘id , 180 4..
Joanna awaked very faint in the morning, being
hurried with a dream in the night. Site dreamt
she was upon a hedge, and in going down, her foot
slipped and she fell along in the lane, and the
water-floodswere runningdownthe lane, ahd ran very
fast over her."She groaned in her sleep; and thought
the water ran over her ; that she creeped through
the lane upon her hands and knees, and thought
she should have been drowned before shfegot out of
the lane. Many other troubles and.dreams she had
in the night. One was, she thought M r. Channon,
that is dead, was living, and intreated her to marry
him, which she refused ; another man intreated her
the same, and she refused them both. After she got
up she was so faint that she thought she should
be forced to go to bed again, but was a little re­
freshed by drinking a drop of wine.
“ Now, Joanna, I shall answer thy dream. Some
things that are given thee are hastily to be fulfilled,
and some things are for times and seasons. But now
K
Digitized by Google
.( Qfi T
I tell thee, the water-floods are coming upon thee.—
But thou hast forgot to mepupii thou heardest a
man this morning intreating thee to be let in, as
though he was under thy window, i^nd now thou
feelest thyself faint and dying, as thoughlhou could-
est not stand tl)e jd^y; the $ecpi*d cj^y of.thy rising is
worse than the first; because m y Sjurit arose with
thee the first day; to strengthen and comfort tliee;
but now I have left thee to the weakness of thy
own nature ; and see what thou art in thy own self.
But this is to she® thee thp shadow of what the sub­
stance will be ; when I raise thee to take thy Trial,
m v Spint shal} yrise with thp?,. to strengthen and
comfort thee; but as soon,as I. leave thee to thyself,
thou wilt not be able to stand the day. Therefore I
ordered thee to rise tfetpf.daysjto shew the types and
shadows of what is to come ; and without m y Spirit
to strengthen and support,thee^ it is impossible for
thee to go through thy Trial-—-
Became the floods o f man will new-cone on,
f o r I stall sw^Uthe tide,
And over tnee the floods will run,
T h e truth 1 will not hide;
\Yhat's copying on will soop he kpown:
In rial if e some will burn,
And other*’ conscience be awak’d,
T o n^akp their hearts to mourn, .
W ith jealousy and misery
Some will be compass’d round;
frptji bzH in n*ge wUlsweft,
FqcsQ ’twill now bs fquiid.
W h at pass’d bfefltre will noSv appear/—
. The bullocks men will see.
T o ^fho.bajck .their every sopj^d.
In different Voices b£.
*But how x'an men dare to contend
, W hen all things I do know ? < ••
Ami wifi they call themselves a friend
* T o let their parents go* . >
. , .fojjn to^wefi toburn in hefi?t <
For there ipy n>ind is bept,
That Wills's wife shall ever dwell
If sbe .doth not repent.
, T he crimes that's here there* none can clear
She ihusj confers them tyue;
... -L.i - * !•/*.„.
Digitized by Google
(< 9 9 )
And let her htisbattd to appear?
And he must own *t» so,.
Then surely he sd well as shew
Must hasty now repent •
But l do. tell you, just like thee,
His heart will sOon grow faint—
** My sink appear against me 1'fere,
4
4M v conscience doth condemn?
“ And hdw my guilt shall l nefw dear?”
May be the cry of him.
But will thee tav another way ?
—
4
4Our fathem han’t repent;,
4
1 W e now will try* to harden he?
4
4H e never may relent;
4
4But still gqrcri m fatr strong,
4
4 As he did at the first,
4
1 False witness now in him shall come"—*,
I f they this way should bunt*
1 tpll them all their every fall.
Like Garrick they shall die;
T h e Phy.of Judgment is for all.
And VVillss judgments nigh.
The die is cast for trim at last
T o bring the judgment here;
And so on .earth the thing is bittlt?
So let men n o * take care.
*Tis time to flee from misery
That now is hastening on :
T he water-ftodds may come to thee?
And over thee to rita—
But call to ihind how thou didst find
That way thy passage through ;
And after that them' find st mankind?
Ami with’d-theh for to go
In wedlock strong to join with them?
A nd so the end would break,
I f I’d not hold thee by the hand,
The way thou dream^t to speak?
A ll te^refuse, no man thou’lt chuse,
I know, to wed! but me ;
So litapptftw thy husband here,
That every soul shall see.
I’llWound the heart. I'll!strike the dart
Against thy every foe;
So dq not fehr thy danger here,
Though fast the floods' iriay g<>»
1 say, to run laufch'dike a*stream,
And over thee to come,
A nd thon-raaVdtt'fefcr the dangers near*
But I shall thee support;
The_waterfloods that are so near
They nevei^shall tbee’hurt; <
I f thou’st foildown to hear the sound,
As thou didfcft'foll this5
day,
W 2
r
Digitized by G o o g l e
Til raise thee'up, so do not droop, ' \
But hear what l do say-*-
In power strong to thee III come, ’
M y friends shall thee support.
The water-tioods are hastening on, .
A l first thy mind they’ll hurt,
For to fell down to hear the sound, *
W hat shortly will appear-,
But all thy foes 1 1
1soon confound
By friends that i have near.
For tb come in some will begin, '
And wish the truth to see;
A n d now k-tell thee many men 1
W ill wish to know of thee
I f all be true before their view ,, ‘
M v friends have written here;
Btctfwwh thy heart thou dost begin *
T o say, can men appear
T o judge it wrong what they have done* *
I f it did not cotne from thee,
A history they could ne’er command, *
Invent such things to be?
I f *twas not so, thou well dost know, '
N o one could this invent;
But now.ril-tell thee why ’tis so, *
Men’s minds will be so bent,
T o talk with thee the truth to see, •
Or every truth to know ; ^
W h y thou In W ills’* house did stay, *
And now to publish so
Against thyself, some men will swell, .
And women swell the same^—
“ It is no honour unto her •
T o let these things be known.”
But 1'U appear to answer here,
If it be knownto thee,
It is to make my honour dear, •
And lej the nation see,
That 1with them the same have done,
And lon^ have tarried here;
Though with the sinful sons o f men,1 '
That did like W ills appear,.
Andlike his wife that brought the strife^
I so have staid with m an;
But now, l say, like W ills’s wife, '
The end to all is come:
T he man at fin^t, the Devil last, 1
Is so unholded hero, :
And I, like thee, on all shall burst,
So let the land take care ! -
And W ills the same, if he condemn*-*?
I pfecd him with mankind,
T h a i do*profe*s mv lovers here, *
- A nd that yoi^ tdl shall find* . . .: .
( ' l d o f
Digitized by Google
- • ’ • - Sablam euam ore, I’ve made itd egf} , ' ' {
T o bring it to the land,
In Willa's house I did ordain.
That thou so long should stand.
And' now I shall answer thee in plain words. If
they blame thy pity and compassion for staying in
W ills's house, because he tried to draw thee by
cords of love, that might appear to the world un­
just ; then they must blame my pity and com­
passion, so long to bear with a sinful nation, trying
i f time will bring them to repentance. Now mark :
thou triedst to persuade Wills to forgive his wife
all her adultery with every man but Sanderson,'as
! told thee he was the false prophet mentioned in the
Revelations; and it was I commanded thee to con­
tend with Wills to rid him from his house. So
it was not thy Spirit, but it was my Spirit they were,
persecuting of then, about the man; and now I
tell them it was not thy Spirit, but it is my S pir it
that they are contending against, to support the"
devil, as she did to support Sanderson; and Wills’s
firetended love to thee is like the world’s pretended
ove to m e . But how could I shew this clear to-
mankind, if I had not placed the type and shadow
in you three ? So who is he that condemncth ? It
is mb that justifieth thy stay in that house. And
now I tell thee, I am like thee, that persuaded
W ills to forgive his wife all her adultery with every
.man but Sanderson; for now I tell thee, I will
forgive every returning sinner, that is no\$ against
Satan’s reign, and longing for m y K ingdom to be
established. But they that are against my p eace­
a b l e R e i g n , and longing to have all things re­
main as they arc, and do not wish to have ■ Safari
chained down, they will soon find shame and con­
fusion of face, with sorrow and misery to fall upon
them, as this is now fallen upon W ills— and yet
this is but the shadow of what the substance will be
ppon this ungrateful nation.”
( 101 >
Digitized by Google
( « n )
PART O F A LETTER FROM' JOANWA TO M8& TAYLOlL
Bristol, A u g u st *3, 1804.
As the Methodists may say, How can Joanna’s calling
be o f G o d — to be ordered to make public, to the wo{ld,
every weakness and folly that has been ih hersfelf, and the
sins of those that she has lived with? To this Jbantia hr
com m an ded , by the Lord, to make thiaanswer ; Tell her^
why all D a v id ’s Sins were put in print, who was a King j
and his Adultery with Baihsheba; his murder of Uriah ;
and w hose secret sins were made public by the Lord,
through N a th a n being sent to reprove him, Otherwise it
W ould not havebeen known that hedesigned toslayUriah f
Another thing they are toanswer, Why alt the Sins that
.Jacob’s Sons comuiitted were ordered to be penned in the:
Bible? Why all the Sins of Solomon were penned in the*
Bible ? Why all theSins o r the Kings were penned in the-
Bible ?.Why alt the Sinsof Lot’s Daughters were penned
in the Bible ? And why was it penned inthe Gospel, that
our Saviour was a Friefad to the Sinners; that He;:
who was theSonof God, went toeatand drink with them ;)
andthathe forgavethegreatestAdulterers,.iftheyrepented;
■
*
and yet their Sins weie all mentioned, and what they had
done ? Why were the Sins of Paul ail mentioned, when
lie turned to be sozealous an advocate for the Lord ? Now1
let tfnm read their Bibles through andanswer, Whyetery]
man’s Sins werementioned in theBible ? And then I will1
answer them, Why these things were ordered to bemarie
public now; and whytheShepnerds wereblamed through*,
out the Bible, from tbe Old to the New Testament ; and
then I will answer, Why they wereblamed now—because
there is nothing done but has beert d6ne, 1 st. Cliap. oC
Ecclesiastes, 9th verse: the thing that hath been Jsit, that
which shall b e ,and that which is done, >
&that which shall?
bp done, dnd there is nonew thing under die Sum Is there'
any jibing whereof it might be said, see, this* is new ? It!
haih been already of old times, which, was before us* The,
explanation o f this you have seen in my Book The Warn*
ing to the World, 52 page. For now all the Bible must be*
fulfilled ; am
i remember what our’Savioursaid in St. Mat-?
thewsGospel, 5th Chap. 1 7 thandlSth verses: Think noP
that 1 aincomc to destroy the Law, or tbe Prophets: I and
not cqine to destroy, but to fulfil: For verily,, I say untbr
you, till Heaven and Earth pass away,/ one jot o
t>
one tittle, shall'in no wise pass from the Law till all be ful­
filled. And now is coming theftrlfiftmentof the and
the Gospel, Now i shall come to Mr. EaStl&ke.’ Ido
not deny but Mr* Eastlake is a religious man, and I al-
Digitized by Google
(; w * >
Ways believedhim so; but I believe Mr. Eastlake is some*
what like my Aunt; that when she went to School to
learn to make lace* upon account of my Grandmother,
who was very good to the Schoolmistress, she wa9
indulged in every thing, and if she made the woist of
work she was never corrected, whilst o»her Scholars were
heat, who made their work much better, am
i found fault
with that it was not made better. This my Aunt had oI
h
served for along time, andatlast shethought herselfsuch
a fayourite with her Mistress that do what she would she
would not fall out with her. So she put her Mistress
to the trial: one dky when her Mistress was gone out of
the room, she went and took the soot of the chimney
and put it upon the top of the lace to spoil it, to prove
to the rest of the Scholars that she was sueh a favourite;
but hereshe carried her jest too far, and found herself se­
verely beat. And I wish Mr. Eastlake'sself-confidence may
not bring a like sorrow upon him; for a man may live
ever so religious, yet if he be so
. self-confident* that he
cannot do wrong, and think the Lord would never be an-
fry with him, that man would find himself deceived.
can assure Mr. Eastlake, that I have feared sin more
than death, from my youth up to this day, and the ways
of the Lord has been my delight; yet I have had ten
thousand fears that I might do wrong, and ten thou­
sand fears that a wrong spirit might deceive me, and
that my own heart might deceive me, that 1 might
not have a right judgment in all things; but if I had
been of Mr. Eastlake’s make, to be self-confident, that I
could never do wrong, i should never have been so clear
that my calling is of God, as I now ain; for by my doubts,
fears, and jealousies, the lord hath made them much
clearer before me. You are aJiving witness of my fears
and jealousies, as well as your own, when things have
not come to our judgment, fearing a wrong spirit might
have deceived me; and it will be well for Mr. Eastlake to
let these jealousies'alarm his breast, fearing a wiring spirit,
ora wrongjudgment, might deceive him ; lorthe Metho­
dists affirm, there is no knowing one spirit?from
* another,
and Satan will come as anangel of light to deceive them;
so let thembe not hjgbi»minaedt hut fear. I judge of the
Spirit that visits me, by the tfijth of his words* and by the
wisdom, in the manner he is bringing every thing round
to fulfil his wprds in all things $and by the clear and won-
rdrriusimanner that ;ha is captaining*the Bible, 16 make it
all true. Butyou will hear morcinyiterie?htreafter% 1„
Digitized by Google
The following im po rtant C om m unications
was given M a y 2 7 ,.1800 *.
It was in answer to a dispute between Joanna am i
her Sister, who told Joanna she was spoiling the pa­
per upon which she was writing, and was answered
by the Spirit, That the paper, which she said waa
spoiled, should be the means, by the writing upon
it, to awaken thousands.
As I indite for thee to writer
And all shall fly abroad;
For in the end *tis my intend
The truth shall all be know’d;
F o r’t must appear, the valley's near.
And Satan laid the plan,
A nd men did suck the poison deep—■
Aud deep 1
*1
1go with all:
I’ll first try man, how he will stand
W hen 1have shew'd his fall.
In colours fair 1
*1
1paint it here.
And sinners 1 1
1awake,
T o shew from hell what arts do swell j
And men s hearts ! shall shake,
T ill I mete out the valley quite—
Then Succoth I’ll divide;
And men shall sec their destiny.
W hen 1 bring back the tide
On Pharaoh's host— my honour's lost
W hile he doth this pursue:
For at the sea my people be,
And know not what to do.
^The sea is red with streams of blood,
And Pharaoh’s pride docs swell;
* This Communication relates particularly to the Harvests of the
r oi. rfo ilwing ycurs from IbOO. . _ ^ ii*
( 104 *
■ S"
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
For Satan Jicre does so appear*
W ith all his force from hell.
M y people go l doth Satan know ?
—
“ Then 1
*1
1 pursue them strong”—
And all his force, like Pharaoh's host*
Doth furious follow on ;
But all shall 6ee the mystery*
H e’ll follow to the shore; */«<***-•»
And then the rod shall come from God*
And smite the ocean there;
Then men will see the mystery,
How 1 shall it divide,
T o make it dry* for man to fly,
And in the pillar hide.
A light for man it so will come,
W h en in the ocean there;
But in the dark they'll miss their mark*
W h en Satan fpllows here.
His chariot wheels I ’ll surely foil ;
For off they fast shall come:
H I make the light to guide the night*
And that shall be for man,
W h en darkness here doth fast appear*
And Satan's pride doth sw ell;
His chanot wheels, with all his skill*
Must perish— there he’ll fell.
The Type is deep, the mystery’s great:
N ow see the fate of m an;
By Satan's arts came every smart;
He'th laid the burden strong *
He'th took away from man, I say*
T h e G r a c e that 1 had given;
Yet men arc idle, he doth say,
And so complains to heaven.
So much like man doth Satan stand*
T o make their load encrease;
(M en gather stubble in my land)
And makes their number less.
That is, their Grace doth not encrease,
W hile Satan robs them so;
o
( »05 >
Digitized by Google
*
He th beard my threatening*, more ofriett,
To let my people go j
But all in vain, he still finds me&
To work in hearts like me—
No prophecies from heaven came
But Satan finds a way
To followon the same in man;
So Moses tries in vain!!! -
While Satan swells in arts from hell
Your land may still complain—
u No Moses1rod can come from God;
“ He is not in the sound-; .
° We all knowwell’t must come from hdl
“ Throughout ourland they’re found
u To work thesame; by arts they’recome,
•* And all’s imagin’d art.”
But when l do unveil my nams
Satan must feel the dart;
For I’ve a wheel beyond his skill,
That I shall so work round,
That ’tis not all the arts of hell
Can in thiswheel be found.
No likeness there can e'er appear
When I my wonders show;
Hi strike theiintels of the doors,
And let my people know
’Tis but arod that came fromGod, #
To warn them todepart;
And mysalvation they shall know,
Though first it makes them smart.
NowTil begin in words moreplain;
My rod doth here go.decp;
It frills onSatan and his men,
And alt my friends feel it
As itwas then, be’t known to men,
When Egypt felt the blow,
Against my people Pharaoh rose,
And would not let them go>
Till I begana heavier storm , '
And made mypeople fly,
Digitized by Google
( 1 0 7 )
f
Then to the RedSea they did go,
And here’s the mystery.
Td murmur th$p theydid begin.
While Pharaoh follow'd there:
They saw the dangers they were in—
And nowthe truth IH dear:
Forjust the same ’tisnow with man;
Dangerssurround you all,
And must come on, I tell you, strong,
Ere menwill knowtheir call;
For Pharaoh’s host will follow close*
And dangers aHsurround,
Just like theshore, before ’tis o’er,
Your dangers will be found.
Now I’ll explain what this doth mean
Dangers standthickfor man,
When I the strawshall takeaway*
And stubbietills your land;
That is, you’llsee the mystery—
Your C orn 's design'df o r S tra w ; *
And if the wheat I takeaway,
Then stubble all will know t
Must follow next, and man perplex;
Yet thousands will complain—
u We will have food; *tis not fromGbd;
“ We are but starv’d by men.
u The fault we seein man to be— •
* *
“ They’restarving of the poor: 4
“ Shall we diesor"—they’ll answeir " No;
“ We'll have as heretofore.”
So ’twill begin, a storm to men,
These dangers will appear;
And like the people at the sea,
You’ll be surrounded here.
The Egypt’s host did follow close; *
The Red Sea stbod before;
They judg'd their cause still worseand worse,
A n dall did ntuimur there,
Till I began an arid tr i. an,
And didthe waves v?d::
o i iv
Digitized by C j O O ^ I c
I made the seas to themdry land,
And so I smote the tide. ^
Then Pliaraoh’s host, and all hiscoast,
That did so proud pursue,
Went heavy on, and thought to titrn, ;
But had no wheels togo; -
’Twas all too late : you see their fete,
A-buricd ip the deep. L
Then Satau there will find hisspar?
And buried inthe pit;
For he piess’don so after man, .
As Pharaoh did that day; r
Then sure ray honour now I’ll gain, -
And et piy chosen free.
My chosen men, I tell thee plain, ;
Are aU that do belie:t ; *
Eut mockers heie will sure appear* „
And with their master cleave;
Because some men will followhipi,
Thoughjudgments stand before— ,
** We oft have heard the selfsame thing,
“ And seen no roomto fear.”
So Pharaoh, king, will lead theip on—
The judgments all forget,
Till to the purpose I shall come^ .
And make the mystery great.
Whoe'er believe they need not grieve—
Tbe.promis’d land's before:
I’ll guide them through, they’ll find it true,
And give them Canaan’s shore.
A land’t shall be of Li bert Y| »
Their foes I will destroy;
Man’s happiness I will encreasej .
For man I will enjoy.
Though’twounds my heart tomakethem$mart
But sure the storm must comcf t
Or men will never follow me ;
For Satan leads them on, ,
In every chain, that now gives paiiif ,
My Und is sore oppffcstj
4 * \
( 1 0 8 ' )
Digitized by Google
(£ ^ /> s/7 /iss
y
( 109 )
And the distressesof the' poor,
Like Israel, wound my Breast.
For in My eand my children stand
Half starv'd, for want of bread:
But 1'Utryrah, both greatand small,
And see how man will feed;
W hen 1 bringona heavier storm
The hearts of men I’ll try;
And if i seethey starve the poor,
Then ail shall starve and die.
For Famine hereshall next appear,
W hen I fulfil my word ;
Three plenteous harvests shall appear9
When men obey their LoRt> *;
That is, to lufowifall be true,
And trace the,Writings deep;
=And public let the words to go, \
Then 1 shall find my sheep. >
If large my flock andfew do mock.
N o Famine shall appear; . .
I’ll striked!* lintelsof the doors,
And send my angels here;
With such Disease I manshall seise,
That they shallnot get free;
And fast by death I'll bring them forth,
And then my sheep 1’li free.
So every year,will fast appear, a!
When the new date’s begunf:
1 shall notdoas heretofore,
And linger on with man.
The night's for spent, 'tis my intent
To bring the day*light here:
And if Believersare butfew
The Famine shall appear:
In three years tinje, behold thesign!11
•i. When the new date is three,
• See First Book, p. 18, three divines and fourothers went to en*
q lire into the truth, apdthe promises werefulfilled in lgpi, 1809, and
1 ^03, of plenty. . , ,
t That is 1800.
Digitized by
v
( n o )
Thefourth year **U then appear,
That stubble men will see.
T h ey all ahall sow, but shall net near*
Yet Til my flock secure:
I'll fill your barns to keepfrom h a m s
For it w ill last t h r e e t e a r s :
W herein you'll see your destiny.
I f unbelief abound*.
Then sure my sheep they need not weep,
T o see the truth come round:
For fast will come disorders strong^-*
M > shee; shall not want breed}
For if the Famine it doth come
Believers shall be fed.
For r.ov- sha.l fall, 1 tell you
Nothing but Phataoh's host;
A n d when you find Fve rid them alb
You'll find a Glo r io u s c o a s t l
So all is plain, if learned men
Can trace the matter deep;
HI burn the chaff-^Tve said enough**
I will secure my wheat.
So now this lteer let all take caret
I f all thy words come true,. *
They'll find the date, in every year,
W ill perfect happen so .
So now to shun 'tis time to come.
T h e mockers of the day ;
I f Plague or Famine do appear,
*Twill surely come that way.
But those that scorn where thou art known
W ill surely fare the worse;
Because the truth will clear be shewn,
That no deceit hath pass'd;
But surely blest above the rest,
I tell you, of your land, *
Are thousands here who will appear,
And strong by faith will stand. ,
A happy Isle, may thousands smile
That they are plac’d so near,
Digitized by Google
\ n i )
T o tee the sig n , and know the T iM *f ..........
W h en all things will appear.
M y chosen men so near your land, '
O r yet so near your home,
That have stood out, so full of doubt,
T h e truth confirm'd by them.
I f anger rise, fet men grow wise,
A nd judge the matter well:
, Themselves they will not first chastize*
I f they can screen themselves;
I f these can not, they’ll see their lot,
T is heaven doth them reprove:
Then they'll see clear, that they did err.
W h en fear and anger mov'd. *
Provok’d they’d go, the truth to lenow, ,
And jealousy alarm’d ;
Then sure these men hy faith must stand, T
And every troth discern —
So from these men, I tell you plain,
You nothing have to fear; '
Because themselves they’ll surely screen.
I f they can bafBe hert;
But when they faU, be t known to all,
Their fig-leaves throw aside,
T h en suremy*clothing oil ntastgo.
For I shall loweV their pride.
Then sure will swell the pride o f hell—
4
1W h a t ! have w e let them go?
4
1W e ll follow on by arts unknown,
“ And overtake them too.”
Close t£ the deep, close to the p it
His chariot wheels prepare*
rw H e will go on with fuiy strong*
And sin ely perish tfierfe.
For if 1keep my word withman,
That 1 did first create,
Then sure I’U keep my word with him.
Because he laid the net;
Thou knows’t the promise, how he’s bound.
Th ou know st where he did fa ll;
Digitized by G
o
o
gle
< 112 >
And if to tempt again he's found
I'll chain him down to hell.
I f he my promise did demand
Against the sons o f m en;
Then to my word JL'll faithful stand,
/ And cast him to his den.
Then Til try man how he will stand,
W h en I do govern all;
A nd if I find an upright land
Satan shall pay for all;
For him I’ll try, I'll tell thee why,
And free his chain once more;
W h en he hath heard the sinners cry,
Confin'd a t h o u s a n d years,
I'U let them free, mankind will see,
A nd try his reign once more :
A nd if a Pharaoh still he be,
A Pharaoh shall appear;
That is, he'll fall, 1 tell you all,
A-buried in the deep:
N o more of him shall then be seen,
W hen the full time is u p ! 1
1
These words were spoken before the day of judg­
ment, which is given to the public in my Fourth
Book.
. , . r : - I ........... -•
’ ' i i
[Price Two Shillings.]
S. R ousseau, Printed
Wood Street, SpaFields, London.
Digitized by G o o g l e
