{"name":"True Explanations Of The Bible P1-4","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1804__southcott___true_explanations_of_the_bible_p1-4.pdf","mytitle":"True Explanations Of The Bible P1-4","mylang":"de"}
f
\
• V SPHB .
T R U E E X P L A N A T I O N
OF THB
B I B L E ,
REVEALED b y
DIVINE COMMUNICATIONS
«,pt
J O A N N A S O U T H C O T T .
Pa r t t h e f ir s t .
rrd WtilCHf ARE ADDED
£ Ei T T E R £
5
fO AljfD FROM
TH E M r . POMEEOTK
/
•
>
f. ¥
A
NoProphecy o f the Scripture h o f any private Interpretation;
2 Peter,i.2o.
........ .....-I■I
NI - ■ r , , . H
...I n■ ,, ■
LONDON:
Pr in t e d Ay a. rous«e a u , w o o d s t r e e t , sp a f ie l d s ;
AND SOX.D BY E. & FIELD, NO. % HIGH STREET, ST. GILES'S*
tW O DOORS FROM THE ANGEL INN; AND
THE tyUSS EVELEIGII S, ST. SIDWELL’S, EXETER.
' 1804.
[Price Eighteen Pence
Digitized by Google
Digitized by Google
P R E F A C E .
J oanna S o u t h c o t t now affirms to the
W orld,**that she has the full Consent o f the
Bishops to p -iiL b lish that her Calling is o f G O D ;
but if the B i s h o p s should say n a y ,, this is her an­
swer to t h e m r T h e Lord commanded m e to send
printed L e t t e r s to all the Bishops, that if they
would b r in g fo r w a r d twenty-four o f the Clergy,
to prove t h a t nay Visitation was not from the
Lord, I w o u l d g iv e up to their judgm ent w hen­
ever the c a u f e w a s fairly tried and examined by
them ; b u t a s they have kept silence to this
Letter, th eir c o n s c ie n c e s must tell them , that the
Calling is o f G r o d . And now 1 shall ask them ,
if a man w ere p r in t in g a Book, that was blasphe­
my against t h e B ib le , and the world condemned
that Book ; s u p p o s e that man should appeal to
the Bishops, a n d say, “ If the Bishops w ill com e
forward and e x a m in e my Book, and prove before
my face it is "blasphem y, I will give up to their
judgm ent, a n d destroy the w hole,”W hat must be
their a n sw er 1 C onscience must tell them — “W e
should b e u n w o r th y the name o f Christians, and
m uch m o r e u n w o rth y the name ofBiahops, to b?
A 2
Digitized by Google
- - . a - . * i
the heads and guides o f the Church, if w e did
not immediately com e forward to put a stop to
this man’s blasphem y; w e must despise the
M A S T E R w e profess to serve ; and shew no re-?
gard for his h o n o u r and g rea t ^ a m e ;
neither can w e have any regard for the people,
by whose bounty our livings are supported,
ltnow ing that many weak minds m ight be hurt
by such blasphemy.” Therefore for the glory
©f God, for the good o f mankind, and for their
ow n honour, and a good conscience, they would
say they should immediately com e forward, if
they saw that the man had written blasphemy,
N o w the same must be their answer tom y Rooks.
Tfthey believed they were written from the Spirit
o f the D evil, in the name o f the Lord, they
w ould immediately come forward to put a stop
to them , as they were offered for theirjudgment.
So their silence gives full Consent, that my Callr
ing is from th e Lord. And this I now testify
and affirm to the world, that there is no Bishop
who can comefo rw a rd ggainst me.— “ And as the
Bishops, are silent, let all the Clergy he silent;
and know it is' I the Lord that works in the
heart o f my people, to w ill and to do o f my good
pleasure.” .
Therefore *tis I, who dwell oh High,-
Do send oat this to mah ;
4 5BEPAC0.
Digitized by Google
PkfcPAfelS.
That ais the bishops silent He,
Thy. written word shall stands
Pver to he as 6pokeby m e ;
And so the end Til clear.—
The Bishops* silence, all shall see,
Proves \ have spoken here,
ttave I not one in love Vvould come,
In honour to my Name ! ! !
Tf that from Hell the whole did swell,
And Satan did blaspheme ?
^hen they must be despis'd by me,
As me they must despise,
I f they judge thine is blasphemy,
And say they’ll blind their eyes,
Not to appear and see it clear—
“ We care not what goes on,
1* The minds of who are injur’d here,
“ Nor what from Hell doth eofrie,,
“ As long as we in grandeur be,
“ Tis all we wish for here’~
Then they shall see the mind of me,
In anger I’ll appear;
Pecause no love they so Gan prove,
If they judge thou art wrong.
If they judg’d right before their sight, /
Their silence leads thee on,
Forward to go, they all shall know,
For who shall thee prevent ?
While all the Bishops silence shev^,
Thou’st got their full consent.
So now for thee ’twould fatal be
If thou should’st here draw back;
because the Bishops, thou dost see,
Ne’er tried thy han4 to stopj
Digitized by Google
$ M E N A C E .
So if'tis sin what thou hast dont,
It on tbeir beads must fall.
If all be right, before their sight,
Fll surely screen them all,
If they will say this very way,
Like thee,—-"We all did fear
“ The Calling was from Heaven highj
•cThen how could we appear
« To stop thy hand—when in the Land
u We see the Truth abound ?
u And could we come to thee unknown*
u And e’er condemn the sound
So now appear my Bible here,
For it I’ll all go through ;
And so I say, thou'st nought to fear,
For l shall prove all true.
A ll taken from Joanna Southcott’s m onth.
J a n e T o w n l e t .
Digitized by Go»gle
T R U E EXPLANATIO NS
OF THE
J Sunday Afternoon, September 23, 1804.
o an na began this morning, as soon as she had.
breakfasted, to read through Samuel, arid could not
avoid pondering in her heart, how David, that was
such a chosen man of the Lord, and to whom such
great blessings were promised, should have such
wicked Sons; and yet. she was clearly convinced in
her own mind, that-it was no cunningly devised fable
of David’s to say i t ; because our Saviour himself
speaks so highly of him. She likewise thought upon
Jacob’s Sons ; how great the Promise was made to
Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob ; and yet what vices
were in Jacob’s Sons! All these things appeared
marvellous in her eyes: but here cornea
THE ANSWER OF THE LORD.
" J o a n n a , I shall answer the ponderings of thy
heart. A ll these are T ypes op t h e Cb e a t io n ,
T ypes o f t h e F a l l , .and T ypes op t h e R e­
d e m p t io n . Here are mysteries thou canst not un­
derstand ; but I shall explain them unto tliee; and
begin with the Creation. What a Promise did I
make to Man at first; and what blessings did I set
before him ! In whose likeness did I say I created
him ? and in what Paradise did I place him, if he
had continued to obey my command ? But where
did Adam fall ? and what followed the Fall ?Was not
Adam the original progenitor of all men that I cre-
tted, to be fruitful, to multiply, and to replenish.
^ Digitized by Google
$ TfiUB B X ^L A N ^T IO llS OB
the earth ? and said, I had formed him in my owft
likeness ? But after his Fall, what did Cain do ?
Then why dost thou marvel so much about David’s
sons ? Was not Adam as greatly formed as David?
W as not I his Maker ? And do I not call myself
the Father of all men ? Yet what followed on in the
posterity of the children, here I shall explain to
thee, in the children of David. As David was the
father of his children, that rose up in rebellion
against him, just so am I the common pa r e n t of all
men ; and thou mayest as well marvel l*ow men rise
up in rebellion against their God, a§ mafvcl Ijow
David’s sons rose up in rebellion against him : and
thou mayest as well marvel how mankind cm he §9
wicked, when 9very, b l e s s in g they receive is from
ME ; and yet see what rebellion there is in thy world
against mE. Do pot men rise up in open violence 1
against me/ apd want to take the power out of prf
hand, if they could ; as much as Absalom rose up
against David, and wanted to take the throne frotji
him ? Now I shall answer thee from thy pondering
heart. Thou thoughtest so great a Promise, as was
made to David, his sons must have been the best of
men, lie being anointed a chosen servant o f mine; I
but I tell thee, No. These chosen servants shew the j
Type of Man in the Creation; what they were ere- ]
ated fop, and what their children departed from,
like Dayid’s sons. How could I compare DayicJ
with MysELf if it were otherwise ? Is (t qot written,
I have nourished and brought up children, and thef
have rebelled against me l And so difi David’s child­
ren rebel agaihst,him: for the children of David
are throughout the land, and have bpen }n every
age of thpworjd, as rebellious against MEptbat ap
the common p a r e n t of all men, as Davifl’s §on$were
against him '; and their vices and cruelty orjeagaijist
the other, as David's sons were one against tfie othpf,
So marvel not, if the children, where the prprpisps
were made great to the parents, whouj thou judges);
Digitized by Google
CONCERNING D A T ID .' ' 9
/
should be the best of men, and in thy heart thop.
sayest they are the worst of men. And—
Now thy folly I shall answer,
From the judgment drawn by thee,
If thou’st look’d to thy Creator,
And the Land in sin to be.
If from me first the whole did burst,
And I did Man create,
And yet in sin they did begin
% For to bring on their fate 5
Then how can Man so upright stand,
Where Promises are made, .
While Satan’s roving through the land?
Thy wisdom weak was laid :
Had Abraham’s seed in virtue stood,
And David stood the same,
Then surely I who dwell on hig*
Must be more •weak than Man.
If Man,had power to subdue
The folly of his child,
Then how can I he just and true
To let mankind be foil’d ?
If Abraham’s seed in virtue stood
I ask thee, wh y not mine ?
If David s sons in virtue came,
And bright in wisdom shin’d, ,
I ask thee then why mine began
To fall away from me ?
I tell you all, the things are plain:
These things compar’d must be
Now wjth the Fall, I tell you all-*?-
Was David without sin ? •
Thou answerest, no: the truth is so;
Then how could he bring in
His children here for to appear
In virtue bright to shine,
When Me.n bv me created were ?
But Satan had his time
To baffle all, and Men did fall,
lake Davifi, at the first,
For there his Crimes you now must call,
How David’s sins did burst; •
Upon his head they first were laid—
Thou knowest Uriah’s de&th :
And then his children did proceed
In deeper crimes come forth.
6 0 first began the Fall of Man,
I say of Adam’s Fall; ;
The? sin first there did sure appear^
But now I tell you all, ;
The Promise see at first to be,
The Curse was castGnMan; -
And so the offsprings you do sen
Jn every age com on;
# B
Digitized by Google
TRUE ex pl a n a t io n s or t ijb b ib l e .
Sjn did abound in every sound,
Where I did Promise'make,
Because the Curse was on the Ground,
And so that Curse did break;' •
I say on Man at first did come—
_ S o here stands David's bkion :
^ Promise great you may command,
hat I shall here explain: *
The Curse at first on him did burst.,
^ A s twas pronounc'd on Man ;
1 h* “ I™ 1
ngs great they all did miss,
But neer discern’d my plan,
H l was plac'd, ye fidlen race,
w here Promise 1 did make;
1 tell you all, back to the Pall
The truth of all must break;
**0aiWn e °n ^ an ^lc Gurse do stand,
INo Promise I can free ; >
But now 1 tell vou every one
My Promise';:ll sliall see.—
A AcV/ 0 5 1 1 1 now explain.
As I ha.\c M
iid before}
" ere just like mins,
And id the Jews appear :
Ineverv land see how they stand,
And how they sought mv Life •
But in the end, '(is my intend ’
1 Ins way to cleai- die strife.
A Ul:'?y 1 tdl >
'ou pain,
Hath followd rioni the- Fall;
,, all m.v elnldien you mav see,
Have been like D avids a ll:
Because that some in wisdom stand,
L.iKe bolutnou appear;
And other men in vice did come.
As Atsalvm did there.
A,ThD pviliD’A e, <litlact *"sin;
The Fall of Man doth lav
Uj.on their head, as I have'said;
1 hen how cau man be free
Before die promise, they will plfad >
And then the Curse must be
B*e first, as it was cast—
the Woman east it there,
A ndnW
’ V
.,,,,on theserPent's head__
And now 11
1answer here,
When this is done, I answer man
In m
'v rADAMStlUth shal1 Burst:’
Digitized by Google
C ON C ERNI N O D AVID •
K o : ,he did.fall, I tell you a ll;
Then now liis offspring see:
T hen David here you soon would clear,
... His standing was the same—
T h e man did fell, I tell you all,
And so his offspring came
T o follow on as he began,
So tainted, by the Fall;,
A nd worse and worse they still went on,
.. I now do tell you all. .
So Adam see, the Fall of he,
. W hich was the Fall of M an; .
But after him,, you all do see,
. A fataller FalLbecome ; '
. Because that €dm—
-caHto your mini—
*
. A murderer did appear ;
And so from David yon do find
W h it murdering sons were there.
So all in sin they did, begins.
• The parents first did fell,
W hen! the Promise made to them;
Once moreA tell you all,
While Satanstands in every land,
He hasty will pursue;, ,
take men of war he wilLappear;
All ag#s find it true';> :
fiecapte on man the Cumetdid stands
.^Asl did say. before ;
And now I say, in every tefti
It strongly doth appear. .
So marvel on as thou'sl; begun, -
To think of Davidls Fall :
You see the Tempter still is atrdng*
I say,, to east down all, .
Where Premise gr^at to them ! make;
But see they cannot stand,.
Until my Sceptre I do shake,
To gain the pjiomisx>lani>.
The Promise first for Man to burst;
The Serpent’s curse appear;
Then all may say another way,
“ We see the PiUmi&e dear: ,
“ A Davids Rdgn dothndwbegin
M Inhappfness to burst; . :
“ We see the curse remov'd-from men*
“ Upon the Serpent east" ,
Then children free alimemwil] see,
Like Solomon appear; .
That is in wisdom great tobe^.
But not in sin to err: ;
No, no; Isay to thee*, that day
When 1destroy the Boot,
And every evil take.away,, v .
Then Satan must stand mute.
B 2
Digitized by Google
“ I've had my time I now do find,
“ When God did promise Men,
“ That he unto them would be kind,
< “ If they would worship him.’*
That is, to do, you all do know,
As l do them command.
But Satan he did find a way,
He would not let them stand:
For like the first, this sure did burst,
Like Adam's promise make; ' '
And Satan then so strong did com#
‘ These promises to'break. *
Then of what use can I produce
. A Promise great to Man ?
They’ll not obey what I do say ;
- I see they cannot stand, ' *
While Satan here do strong appear.—
*
Weigh every Promise through:
As Adam first I here have plac’d ; ’
My Bible all go through: '
And Moses see, 1 promis’d he
The land of Canaan ♦here,
That l my children then'wtmld free;
Buthdw did they appear? ‘
Sin did abound in every sound.
And Satan did pursue,
Like Adam’s Fall, 1 tell yoti all,
Wak then their passage through. ‘
- Then how could I who dwell on t\igb,
Preserve the life of Man ? f< "
I tell you, no: it was not so,
My Promise first must stand:
If men obey what I do say,
1shall fulfil my Word; *
"
But men did not, judge every lo t:
fSee how they fell from God:
Though Abraham here I mean to clear,
But Isaac he was bound ;
And know the Promise l made there,
And see how soon was found
Then Esau strong from him to comt—
And Esaus all may see; 1
While Satan’s reign I do prolong,
Yonr murderer he will be :
So Jacobs here let men appeal^-
But know his sons did fall \
1 say in sin they did begin— ,
The Promise stands for all:
I sav, at fii>t it there must burst,
As Man so strong is bound;
By Satan’s chain they do remain, *
. Where Promises are found
*5o great to Man, he cannot stand,
WhiU Satan’i power do reign* ' •
12 TRUK EXPLANATIONS OF THE BIBLE.
A nd so a David you command*. . ..
'These Promises see plain ;
JHow man did fall, I tell you all* ; *
W here every Promise stood; .
T hen how to Adam can you call,
And all to him allude,.
W hen you see plain, ye sons of men,
.How all did tall like he ?
T hen like the Woman now contend,
T hat I may set you free ’
From Satan’s hand in every land,
And from his artful power; ;
A nd then you’ll See*the reiPn of me,
When Satan can't devour.— .
A D avid here I’ll then appear .
And bring my crown to Man:
A nd every promise^hen I'll dear, ‘ ‘
And shew how all shall stand; f ,; > 1
W hen from the first the Promise burst .
, Unto the-Wjoirian made,
Then Satan shall receive his curse, •
•
' And men shan’t be misled, . ; ...
Like David here I did appear, * .
And ljke l?isiwords do cry ;
Though he did ne’er receive the spewy i:
But mark what ne did say-*- /
O Absalom! :mjrson! my soril1 %
O that I’d died for thee l”
The shadow there that did appear, *
The word'sfulfill'd in me i
So I did die-—
I tell thee why:
Because my sons I’ll save 1 I
And yet I hear, like Absalom’s cry,
My throne they now would have.
The vrays are two before thy»view;
Some wish me for to die, .
T hat all their yice they may pursue,
Forgetting hell .is nigh,
Where they must go, as he did do-* •*
Such Absaloms, are here 1 ’
Bring every thing before thy view,
And then thpu jnpay’st see clear, ^
,How strong in sin mei\ do go on,
Against my every word ;
- My kingdom they would sure unthrone
By mocking of their L ord.
Then now see clear,:I tell thee here, >
'
My children are like he— ,
The Absalom?,are every where, ; .
That soon cut down will be. »
Yet still J grieve that men will live , *
So much in Satan's power! *
For reason here thev will not bear*
‘ glen’s senses be.devour#, • ‘
r CONCERNING BAVID2
Digitized by Google
14 TBUB m ^iA #A T ro»> ow- TttE b is l k *
Now I’ll begin from what tfiou’st seen',
Or what thou said’st this day $
As by thy wisdom thou host'sccfl
How all my Bible lay:
After part of this Communication* wad given,
that the ponderings df Joanna’s heart were answer­
ed, Joanna said that the Light of the Lord broke
in so strong and clear upon her, that she said she
daW the Foundation Was laid clear- hn the F a ll; and
if men took away that Foundation, it Was like taking
the Foundation of a
* house: that if you go and
dig round a house, and dig* away aftt the founda­
tion that it stands* trpon, where would your house
be ? must if not fall to the ground. ? And is it not
likely to fall upon those that digged away the first
foundation ? Just so, Joanna saith, is the Bible.
If you take away the Foundation* the Lord laid in
the Beginning, and the Promises he made in the
Fall, you destroy your Bibles,, like thfe hoilse—
u Now*. Joanna* thee‘FI! aiirsWfcr:
Thou dost'say the WSsrdbmYthhiej
But 1 tell thee, I'm 1thy Master,
And the Wisdom it was mine.
For til appear to-anewer here,
The Parable thou hast inadbj
They’ll find, in wisdom f*s© dfear,
That men arc'all misfed.
If theywill say anothCr tfay—
4
4Our Bible is not so:
" Nor the Foundation •
What thou’st compaPd it to<
1 tell you?plain, you sorts of ntehi
% The Parable goes deep,
And perfect true,.you ml shall'ftfrirt*;
For so theertd shall'brestfc
Upon you all the house Would1fell,
If you go on’this way
, To undfcrinine1
the everyth,
Where the foundation lay 5
You cannot stand* I say to mart*
A house to throw down so,
Because upon you it would faity
That every soul doth khrtw.
So no>v^to man the stnheTll'com#—
•
My Bible stand*the stale-,
Digitized by Google
I
TH E OLD PRO PH ET’S D EC EIT, I f
And the Foundation I have lajd.
To fi^ee the sons of men.
^ut if you say another ^ay-~t
J It shall not stand so here:
This Foundation we’ll takeaway,
“ Because we’ll baffje heiV’ : .
' Then I’ll appear to answer hei^e: , ■ ,,
Upon you it must fall;
The gujlt of Man I cannot cleaiy
I now.do fell you .ajl.
So I’ll end here and say no mote*
But thou must ponder on,
'TUI all the mysteries l clem:* f !
For to be given to man.’’
Here ends Sunday night, September,23, ISOC-w
•fallen from Joanna Southcott!s mouth, by me,
' J a n e T o w ^ l e y ,
Monday, September 24, 1804.
Jqanna has been reading, since the morning,,
through the first Book of Kings, and began the
second; hut could by no means help her feelings
being provoked with the perverseness of men, after,
the great promises the Lord had made thepi, and,
the extreme grandeur the Cord had filled the kings
with, and the promise he had made them, if they
continued in his statutes ; and the threatening^.pro­
nounced against them, if they departed from them. ’
But with what perverse hearts they did depart, one
ting after the other, though they were warned fry,
the prophets, what judgments should follow them,
if they did depart from them ; and yet they con­
tinued. worse, and worse. The more Joanna feads
her Bible, ippre she is cop^inced, that nothing
will free men from sin and sorrow, and, bring them
to happiness and union with God, till the Power
of the Devil is, destroyed, wbicfr is, the root of all
evil. But one thing Joanna was afraid for herself,
whether she did not commit sin in her.heart, con­
cerning the old prophet’s deceiving the young
prophet. 1 Kingsy xin. For Joanna could not
. Digitized by Google
help thinking, the old prophet should have died'
as well as the young one ; as, in her opinion, he
appeared the greatest transgressor ; because he de­
ceived the other with the lie.
<
v Now Joanna I shall answer thee. Thou sayest
thou fearest in thy heart, thou hast com'mitted sin ;
because thy judgment was not like the judgment
that I sent at that time. But as thou sayest in thy
heart, the old prophet seemed moil to blame, by
telling the lie knowingly ; and the young one did it
innocently ; yet he suffered for his disobedience, and.
the other s lie. Now I shall answer ’thee this from
the F all: fpr this is the way I shall clear all my
Bible, Therefore I will not blame the anger that
arose in thy heart against the old prophet, for de­
ceiving the young one; and let no one blame the
anger that ariseth in thy heart, to condemn Satan
for betraying the Woman : for all thefe things stand
ip triy Bible, to shew the likeness of the Fall, in
men arid devils. For as the old prophet deceived
the young one, so did the old serpent, which is the
Devil; deceive the Woman. But know, my com­
mand was given to the young prophet; and my
Command he disobeyed; therefore my honour could
jiot save hrim, though the other lied unto him. But
dost thou think nothing followed the old prophet
after, to punish him for what he had done ? 1 tell
fhee, Yes ; but should I have slayed them both in
one day,, then I could riot bring it to the Type of
the Fall. But now 1 shall bring it close to the Fall;
for in perfect manner Satan betrayed the Woman,
and lied unto her; therefore I do not blame thy an?
ger at all. And now I shall go on with the Fall,
Just as the man to him did come .
The prophet did appear.
; . That told thelieunto the man;
But Satan's arts were there,
Tor to betray, I now do say, ,
, And their the man did blames
- For I do tell thee, evpryvay; \ '
He tries for to condemn*
1(5 TRUE EXPLANATIONS OP THE BIBLE.'
Digitized by Google
T H E O l d *K6 #HET*S B E C g ltt
So at the firsthe there did burst,
Like the old prophet stood,
And then the Woman did condemn ;
And this I shall allude,
The fault on hiiti, as thou hast done-*
. The Woman felt the blow,
And so did Man in sorrow stand;
. But now you all shall know,
My anger here doth now appear,
. l tell thee, just like thine:
The old prophet thou canst not bear*
^ And this is now my m ind;.
Though on the first my fury bursty
As man did disobey;
But now at last he shall be cast,
That did with lies betray.
So do not fear thy pondering here,
That thy thoughts run to sin,
Bfecausfe in anger thou didst appear'
. To see what he had done '
Fbr to deceive; though lie believ’d
The words he spoke were true,
And so that day he fell away ;
His. death before your view
Did surely come that day to man,
The shadow of the Fall:
But Adam’s life I did prolong—
For now I tell you all,
Had he died then, just like that Itiax^
Satan would4ME defeat;
Therefore his life I did prolong,
Though ddad to knowledge great
Adafn came first; so men did burst
In knowledge dead to me.
T hat like the Fall, 1 tell you all,
The prophet there did die; .
So Hi go on, from Types, to mail,
Till l have plac’d all. through;
Thy pondering heart1they must command
For all’s before my view;
WhatVift thy mind, they all shall fihd.
Is strongly work’d be mb ;
Therefore the pondering! of thy heart
They all mpst hear and see. .
$o HI g6 on from mail to man, ,
As thou did^t ponder here :
The ways of all thou didst condemn
That did in vice appear;
Ungrateful men to thee were seen,
Thou j.udgest, from, the first,
W hat Promise great I made.to Man,
From David at the first; -
Yet he began to fad .by^in* ‘
But sorely did repent;
C
Digitized by Google
Yet Solomon did after come*
That was in wisdom sent;
And yet that man thou didst condemn# %
In falling so from me, '
After such Blessings I had sent.
I now shall answer thee,
That every way, I now do say,
I surely have tried Man
In Blessings great without deceit,
But now the whole discern.
Did he abide; did he confide, .
Strong in his Maker there ?
Though at the first in prayer did bursty
A house he built me there;
But see the man, how soon he came
To fall away from me.
And wisely here thou dost discern,
These things would always be,
While Satan reigns, thou dost maintain)
„ And I’ll maintain it too;
See every Blessing of the men,
Bring all before thy view.
When Blessings there they did appear,
They did not me obey ;
When Judgements sent they'd ne’er relent*
But still in sin did lie;
Then how can Man the trial stand,
thing all before their view }
To judge my Kingdom is at hand, *
And'Satan rule men so, v
II is power so strong to work in Man,
What Kingdom could it be ?—
The Woman s Promise you condemn,
But now my Bible see;
, I tell you plain, ye sons of men, .
You’ve plac’d my Bible wrong;
And, from the judgment you do draw, ,
You never do discern
How Man first in sin did burst, .
And how he did go on;
And how I-tried them everyway, „
To see if they would turn.
My Blessings first I there old place v
To David, all tnay see;
And Solomon the same did come, >
But wander’d soot* from me ; *
* Then Judgments next I soon did &£, ,
Yet Man went on the same.
So love or anger would not do,
For men despised my Name, _
Whatever way I them did try;
But nowTll try onefe more,
I know the Evil where’t doth lie, ’
I’ll cid him fho/e.
I Z TRUE EXPLANATIONS OF THE BIBLE*
Digitized by Google
STBB OXB PR O PH ET A TY PE OP SATAlT. 1 0
Then I’ll try Man, what he 1
1become,
And how he will appear; r
I’ll send my Blessings o’er the land—>
But now I’ll tell thee here,
That from the Kings that thou hast seen*
And in thy heart did blame,
Them with the Prophet I’ll compare,
And so put all to shame;
For, as the man like Satan stands,
That did deceive at first,
So all these Kings you may command,
Like Satan they did burst.
Because, by him they were led strong—
And strong I’ll lead the whole;
For now I say the time's near come% ' 1
He like these Kings shall fall;
Because, like them, he’tli surely been,
For to make sin appear;
And if that Men I did not screen,,
Shall I their Tempter clear ?
I tell thee No.—I now' shall go,
As I did go before,
When all these Kings I did destroy,
/ And sent my prophets there
To warn them all that they should fall*
If they would not repent.
And now I tell you one and all,
My mind is fully bent
T o come agafn the same to Men,
And tell them what I'll do,
I f Satan’s ways they’ll all condenrm—
Bring all before their view; ’ . , .
My BiBle here let men judge clear,'
But let them judge like thee, ,
That Satan’s arts av
re every where,
And they do plainly see,
No peace in Man can ever come,
While Satan’s power docs reign— .
**Then why our God shall we condemn }* ; *'
“ For now we do see plain
The fault’s in Men, they so did stand ,
“ All ways the Lord did try,
“ To see if they would turn to him—
“ Our Bibles so did lie.
** Can we blame God in what he said,
“ Or what he does for Men,
*( If they’d obey what he did say ?
“ N o: there ^re cannot stand,
- " Our G od to blame; ’tis Man we shame,
“ When he made Promise great;
u And yet, that Man from him should turn*
“ Then where lies the deceit ?
It is in Man : we cannot stand,
Or Satan us destroys. ^
Q %
Digitized by Google
* We wish our God would send the rod,
“ That foe for to destroy;
44 For we see plain from ancient men,
44 What mischief he did do;
u We see ail lands the same do stand—
44 Bring all before our view:
?4 Where grandeur here in men appears^
44 Like Solomon they b e;
44 Their hearts are roving every whert
44 From God, we plain do see ;
44 Then how can men the trial stand,
44 If we blame men before ?
f* A Solomon men do condemn;
*44 But ne’er discern it here,
f4 The Promise then unto the man
44 Was if he did obey,
44 If he did not, we see his lo t;
44 Hear what the Lord did say:
* The whole shall fall, was then the call^
44 O f God unto the man;
44 The House that he had built, we see^
44 He said should never stand.
44 And it did fall, ’tis known to ^11,
44 As Solomon acted wrong,
44 He took the kingdom then from all,
44 Which in the end did come,
f4 When hcj'd tried men by different reigps,
44 In placingjudgments there.
44 W« see no way that God did lie—
44 N o: it was Man did err.
. 44 Then can we blaqie our Maker’s Nam<*
44 To try witbscords of love
* The hearts of men for to inflame,
44 That he their hearts might prove
44In every way, mankind to try— ‘
44 And all we see in vain?
4
4How dare we give our God the lie,
44 Our Bibles to condemn ?
44 Because that men in vice would stand^
44 And now they stand the same;
44 W e see it strong in every land,
44 Then man we sure must blame ;
44 And plainly see our destiny,
44 The root that caus’d our Fall
44 He will bring on our sorroyrs strong;
44 It now is plain to all. '
44 So men in vain do here contend,
44 If they’ll keep Satan u p ; ^
y We sure snail see our destiny*
44 In Sin, till be doth drop. —-
Jo now see plain, ye learned mep,
The way I’ve plac’d the whole j,'
< And with my Bible this contend, ’
‘ And shfcw from Adam’4 Fall,
£ 0 ttllCE EXPLANATIONS 0 ?
Digitized by Google
A H P JE Z E B E L TY PES QP BATAIT. %%
How men Went on to live in sin:
My-love and anger see;
Yet all have been alike to men—
Then can you answer me,
The Fault is mine? No: man, resign . .
And plead a different way: •
The enmity you plain dp see,
Doth in the Serpent lay, *
To work in Man for to go on
Against his Maker here.
Then to the purpose I shall come,
. And make my promise clear; '
Though on these Kings I Curse did brings
That disobey'd my word ;
But Satan’s Curse shall now bp worse.
If you’ll believe your Lord. '
Bely on me, you all shall see,
My Promise I’ll fulfil
On Satan’s head, where it was laid,
And my avenging heel '
Shall there cpme on, I tell you, strong, ’
Till I have caus’d his fail.
But, like these Kings, I know he’s comp,
I now do tell you all;
To make you sin he doth begin,
By pvery art appears ; '
But I shall rid him from the landr-*?
Like A hab he may fear;
( And Naboth’s vineyard he doth crave ;
But I shalLanswer here:
ABOTH was cast when I did hurst
T o SHED MY BLOOD FOR MAN;
But now, [tell thee, at the last
An Ahajf&doom shall come;
On Satan’s head it shall be lain.
Because the bow is b ere
That at a venture men did draw, ,
Then let the fool take care 1
For Jezebel, tne Type of Hell,
Affirm’d what she wopld do : ‘
But like her words her end did fai) y
And now I tell you true, ' '
On Satan’s head it sh^ll be kid,
' As he did say before— ,
1 Mark in thy writings what is penn’d i
Apd let him now take care 1
So all is plain, if you discern
How Jezebel did swell,
. -And in what manner I do warn.-*- /
You know a Type of Hell
} plac’d in shp, you all must see,
And now I'll place it strong;
'Mark thou the words thou’st read this day.
' That fi-ojn herlip&did pome; . *
Digitized by Google
W ith Satan there you may compare—
For I’ll compare the whole:
He said this Kingdom he would share
If he the votes could call
To vote for he, you all do see,
Or else he‘said he'd leave,
Thou knowest, all—behold his Fall—
Like Jezebel, believ'd
That he should come to conquer Man;
But this he could not do.
Like Jezebel, his crown doth stan d s
Bring all before your view:
' She said that she her end would be
Worse than her prophets there,
* If she my prophet could not slay—
And so it did appear.
Then how can Hell in rage now swell,
To think they can get free ?
For like her words, I now do {ell*
Were Satan’s words to thee.
S ol’ll go on in fury strong,
Till I’ve fulfill'd tlie whole,
And then a D avid's reign shall come,
1 now do tell you all;
In love shall be, you all shall see,
And harmony unite.
What was alluded to of Jezebel is ifi 1 Kings,
jrix. 2. “ Then Jezebel sent a messenger unto
Elijah, saying, So let the Gods do to me, and
more also, if I make not thy life as the life o f one
of them by to morrow about this time.” This
chapter Joanna does not remember she ever read
before. But you- may see, from the chapter, how
true Jezebel brought her prophecies upon her
own head, as she missed them that day concern*
ing Elijah. But in the id Book of Kings, she
brought on worse ,fate upon herself, than upon
her own prophets, whom, she lamented. See
1 Kings, ix. 33.
“ Now, Joanna, I shall answer the pondering*
of thy heart. Thou sayest, how great was the
house built unto m b, by Solomon, after the pro-,
mise was made to David; and what was Solomon’s
Prayer ? ^nd what promises the Lord made to Solo­
mon, if he abided in the laws of-the Lord; and
the threatenings made to him, if he departed
2 2 TIUTfc EXPLANATIONS OP THE BIBLE.'
Digitized by Google
CONCERNING^ SOLOMON* . 33
from them ; and how soon he did depart; and how
soon the whole house was cut off! Now I shall an­
swer thee o f this mystery : Know it is written, the
first is last, and the last is first. Now the great
promises that were made to David and Solomon, in
the fallen state o f man ; they soon went on in their
fallen state, to fall from the greatest happiness to the
greatest misery, by the subtle arts of the Devil, and
by their own ingratitude. But now, I tell thee, the
first shall be last, and the last shall be first: for, as
it is written of Satan’s head being bruised, before
my heel; and‘I was first wounded for the transgres­
sion of Man, before Satan's head was bruised for the
transgression of the Woman. So the last was first,
and the first was last; and so it shall be now; for 1 '
will go on to cut off all the powers of the Devil, as
I cut off the house of Aliab ; and his fall shall be
like the fall of Jezebel, and all that join with him
shall fall, root and branch that wish to prolong his
reign. And then I shall come back to the G lory !
of Solomon : and m y house shall be established in'
R ig h t e o u s n e s s , in p e a c e , and in h a p p in e s s , to "
all mankind; for what was %
not accomplished by
Man shall now be accomplished by m e ; and the
ends o f the earth shall see the Salvation of the
L ore ; and say that a g r ea ter than Solomon is ,
here. For how soon did it fall when established by
Man? But my s t a n d in g shall be secure,-—
'Backward all l now shall call,
And backward all shall come,
Until I bring you to the Fall,
Then Man l will redeem.— ^ ,
So Til end here and sav no more 5
But thou must ponder on;
And I shall make my Bible clear, ‘
The tyay it back shall come.’*
All this taken from Joanna Southcott’s mouth, by m e,.
J a n e T o w n l b y . i
And here we ended, Monday, Sept, 24th, 1804, •
Digitized by C j O O < ? Ic ^
Tuesday Afternoon, Sept. 25, 1804.
Joanna has been reading through the first and se-*
cond Books of Kings; and is astonished to hear w hat
judgment men have drawn of their Bibles, concern-1
ing David and Solomon; as she has frequently
heard the Bible taken to pieces On account of these!
men, that the Lord promised such great blessings
to, and they condemned them for the greatest crimes.
But let them know how the promise s t o o d I t Wasf
entirely on conditions. Now, if David sinned, let
them see his repentance; which I have weighed
deeply. But now I shall come to Solomon. Hear what
the L ord said to Solomon, after he had built the'
house. 1 Kings, ix. 4. ’The promise was mad6—
** If thou wilt walk before me, as David thy father,
walked.”— Now go on to the 1 0 th verse. The-
same words again in the 2 Chronicles, vii. 12. to'
the end. Now let them read through the Ktngs,
and see how the .promises stood; and see what
Solomon did afterwards, in the 1 Kings, xi. Weigh
deeply the Qth versed * And the Lord was angry-
with Solomon, because his heart was turned from the
Lord God of Israel, which had appeared unto him
twice.” Now weigh the chapter through; and see'
how the greatest part of the kingdom was rended from-
Solomon, and given to Jeroboam; and see what:
Rehoboam did, the son of- Solomon.— In reading
these chapters my heart pondered deeply, and in a dif­
ferent way from what I have heard the judgment of
men. The more I read the more I admire the mercy,
the goodness, and the condescension of the L obd
in all ages; how he trieth to win men with love, with
mercy, and with blessings, if they will not seek after
other gods, to their hurt.— But here my heart
seems lost in wonder, of the ingratitude of men;
arid the power and influence that the Devil l as over
them !—
^-That after Rehoboam saw the Lord was
angry with his. father, fox departing from. the. earn-
4A * ru e e x p l a n a t io n s op tB E b ib l e ;
Digitized by Google
O f s o E O t t o N A n d H i s s u c c e s s o r s . 25
go on in the perverseness of his heart, to harden
his people against him ; and to think of making
war with .the children of Israel, before the Lord
prevented him by the pr o ph e t . And as to Jere-
boam,, after the Lord had made him King, see
what he went onto d o ; and how the Lord sent
the prophet to reprove him, in 1 Kings, xiii.
*nd see how all the judgments, that the Lord
threatened, came upon them; yet how did -they'
still harden their hearts, to pull down judgments
upon their own heads ! See how often the Lord
sent the prophets to reprove them; yet ' they
would not hear. See 1 Kings, xviii. After there .
had been the famine, and the Lord sent Elijah
to Ahab, and shewed such Vonderful miracles
before him, and brought the rain again upon the
land; yet see, in the 1Qth chapter, how Jezebel’s
heart Was hardened, and how they went on in the
perverseness o f their hearts, to bring down judg­
ments upon their heads ; yet, when they saw. the
Lord repehted of his evil, if they repented of their
ways ; and the Lord turned unto them, if they re­
turned unto him; yet see how soon they were weary
of blessings,' as though they were determined to pro-
’
voke the Lord to anger; for the Lord tried them
every way: and see what blessings he sent, when
there came good kings, that made .them walk in the
statutes of the Lord. But how soon did the chil­
dren depart from their fathers ! How soon did Ma-
nasseh depart from Hezekiah his fa!her, though he
saw the blessings and the wondrous deliverance that
the Lord worked for Hezekiah his father! yet how
soon did he depart from all his father’s steps in the
perverseness of his own heart, as though he wished
to provoke the Lord to anger against him ! Here, in
reading my Bible, it appeareth to me, the Lord
hath tried men every way, to convince them of the
tnatids o f the Lord and the grei
kingdom was rended from him ; y
greatest part of the
; yet that he should
D
Google ’
Digitized by
etol of sin, and shew them what blessings they*
should receive, if they would but walk in the fear o f
the Lord; but they themselves, by disobedience,
brought all the evils upon their own heads ; for all
the old Testament stands upon conditions. Then
how can man say, the Promises were sure, let men
do what they would ? 1 have not read such words
through my Bible : but I find the words of the
L ord have been true, what he spake by the pro­
phets : and the fatal end of the kings came by
their rebellion, as the prophets all had told them,
one after the other. Then how can Man contend
with his Maker ? or how can Men find fault with
their M aker, when they bring evil on their beads,
by the haydness of their own hearts and their own un­
belief ? Then what have we to marvel now at the
unbelief of mankind, seeing how the kings went on
one after the other, after being warned by the pro­
phets of the judgments that should follow ? And
the same judgments did follow; yet they still har­
dened their hearts. Therefore my opinion, from
what I have seen of the Bible, is, that men would
be the same now ; if the sword, plague, and fa­
mine were to be in the land, it would not change the
people for any continuation, if the powers of dark­
ness remained; for, in reading through my Bible, I
read the perfect language that is now in the world.
Then where is the difference in men ? are they not
all of one spirit ? While the powers of darkness are
at enmity against God, they have power to work
in man the same. See what wondrous miracles the
prophets worked of old, and how true their pro­
phecies came ! And yet all thought they should
miss them, before they came upon them unawares.
Now, if that came to the Jews, who being hardened
through unbdie'P,-after seeing all the truths of the
prophets fulfilled, yet still went on the same, till
.they were made entirely captives and the kingdom
taken from them; yet again, when our Saviour
2 6 TRUE EXPLANATIONS OF THE BIBLE.'
Digitized by Google
i
BE MARKS OK MAN*S EVIL M A T E . 1 7
Battle to visit them, they despised his miracles, his
words, and his working, as they had despised their
prophets' before; though some of their kings be­
lieved in their prophets, as did some of th e :
people, and hid the prophets from the fury of their
enemies; just so was it with the Jews, when our Sa­
viour came. Witness the disciples, and many
©f the Jews that turned to the gospel. Then
is it not plain, that these two different spirits
will always be in the world, as long as there are two
opposite powers to work ; the po w er of G o d and
the power of the Devil ? These are my observations
from the past ages, and the present ; for Jsee them
perfectly alike in the opposite spirits, that are now
in the world : and this I am clear will never change
till the powEfc of G o d hath destroyed the power
o f the D evil: for how did the Jews stand out through
unbelief? Though they saw the truth of our Savi­
our’s words, the holy city of Jerusalem destroyed,
and they themselves scattered throughout the face of
ihe earth ; yet all this doth not change their minds.
B ut one observation 1 made in my heart, in reading
over the reigns of the Kings, and meditating upon
the reign of kings in all nations, that there is no
government that has been so well established for the
happiness of unankind, as the government that is
brought in by the Gospel. -This appeareth to me a
shadow of good things to come; that perfect peace
and happiness shall beestrblisedwhen the fulfilment
o f the gospel is accomplished. This is the ponder­
ing of my heart, from reading the Bible, which I
am ordered, to pen ; -and I think, instead of men’s
blaming the Lord, they ought in reading their Bibles
to take guilt and shame to themselves, seeing what
perverseness was in the heart of man ; and they
ought to look abroad and at home, and see what per­
verseness now is inthe heart of man. So whattheworld
now make a mockery of, is a truelooking glass forme,
to see all faces in their true colours. My observation
D 2
■ ' Digitized by Google
went the deeper, as I have heard men make the
greatest mockery of the Bible ; and I know many
abandoned wretches have not only written against
it, but have taken pleasure to turn it into ridicule
and fun. But let them look into their own hearts ;i
then they may say the Bible is a looking glass for
them to see their own likeness painted there; for-
there is"every man’s likeness in the Bible”
, both good
and bad. And the mockery and unbelief of man­
kind do but strengthen my faith the more; because
I see all these characters have been before; and the
Gospel assureth us they would remain till the
powers of darkness were destroyed. *Therefore, my
prayer is, that the Lord will hasten that happy time,
to cut off Salnn s reign; and bring in h is o w n ,
whose mercy and goodness' are over all his works.-
:But what mercy and goodness would it have been in
the Lord to prolong the wretched reign of Manasseh I
who appeareth to me a complete tyj e of the D evil;
. and yet Hezekiah his father was so good ,a man !
Thus it appeareth to me, it is not from the Fall of.
A dam, as the blood running in man; for then the child
might be like the father %but it appears to .me, by
the heart and spirit that are in men, some give them­
selves up to be drawn by the Spirit of God, and
others give themselves up to be drawn by the power
of the Devil. But these-are my own ideas from my
observation o f the Kings, that the, sons did not all
walk in their fathers’ steps ; for some turned to do
good, and others turned to do evil; which brings my
thoughts to our Saviour’s words. “ His servants ye
are to whom ye yield yourselves to obey.”-—
*
* Now Joanna, thee I’ll answer*
From the pondering* thou hast hejre*
, Let thepi judge who is thy Master >
Let the sons of ineu appear.
To answer man i shall begin;
Let them thv pondering see,
* And then I say HI answer men,
If theycan answer m e;
That say trorn Hell thy heart doth well,
9r Satan doth(hee guide;
23 TRUE. EXPLANATIONS OF THE B IE ftt.
f
• Digitized by Google /
Because thy heart J do know well—*
The swelling of the tide.
How it is Man that thou doit blame,
Thy Maker thou dost free;
And all thy foes I’ll put to shame* .
There’s none can answer me.
When I begin to plead with man,
My Bible then go through }
For I shall guide thy heart aud band ; _
Thv pondering all shall know. ^
So ncw jeacTback wiiat tTieyTSve wjKQte,
~ Thy pondering’s all from mb, r
AhiT&y my spirit thou art taught
The looking glass to see. ........
So all must come mid so discern
All faces do appear,
As in the Bible thou hast read,
No man can answer here. .
It is not so, I well do know ;
N o: there they must stand mute,
And from Manasseh I shall go
To strike the every root.
The thoughts of thee are known to mr.
For I have plac'd all there ;
T hy pondering heart they all must see, .
And tell me when and where
A heart, like thine could not be mine ?
■ S6 no'WTfcad back the whole! ~
And I shall further tell my mind,— .
Those that can’t stand shall tall.
■So I’ll ge on to answer man, \
, From all the lines here penn’d;
And let the wise and learned come,
With all their learning bendy
And tell M
Explain if they’ll maintain^ _
This pondering came from thee $
If that from licit thy heart did swelh
‘ And so led on by he ?
I fell them po; they all shall know,
Thy heart end *soul is mine;
Unto the standard I shall go, *
And make them all resign.
The thoughts of thee, let all men see,
Thou’st wiselyjudg’d the whole;
While Satan reigns, I will maintain, r
The glass stands deep for ail * »
As thou dost see alike to be,
In every age that’s past,
And with the present doth agree,
The looking glass is plac’d ?
So strong for all, now judge the call, 1
Tfiy thoughtsjn all I’ll clear.
, TiTnol the taint bf Adam s Fall *
That brings $jn every where'} .
©* TH E T A 1U T 0 $ TH E * A I$ .
Digitized by Google
\
No, ’tis the man, I say must stand*
And answer just like" thee:
IFAdam’s Fall had tainted &ik ~
| And in the blood to be, _
^ Then in the Man the Fall must stand*
• An(Trim through every vein;
* j For then the Father and the Son
, 7 Would both alike remain.
, But *tis not so, 1 well do know*. _
' Then how can man appear,
. To say it is by Adam’s rail,
V ^ Y o u are so tainted here >
*t 5oVanswer, man; you cannot stand
\ T o prove it alt this way ; ~ \
jAnd yet I say, from Adams Fall*
, In grief you all do lay;
| Because the Man did me condemn*
Which did prolong the reign
;O f Satan there, I teil you here* .
! And this I shall maintain— * '
1 Your spirits free they surely be
i To act which way you will:
Your hearts you may give up to
Then Satan's heart I’ll chill;
For now I’m come to tell his doom-—
*
He like these Kings shall tall.
Bfanasseh here I now shall clear*
' A Type goes deep for all ; •
Because that he, you all do see, ,
Did from his father go; ’
\ “ And Satan wander’d so from me—*
\ But now thy heart I know:
i ** Can Satan here like him appear ?
\ “ How can he be a son?”
I tell thee. No: it is not so;
j Yet still from shadows come;
" Satan with me his reign you see;
« In Heaven he reign’d at first; *
I And had he stood in harmony,
I He never would been cast,
j But he did not; you see his lot,
How he was cast below;
f And then my judgments he forgo
Did like Manasseh go;
I 1 say, in sin he did go on
I To tempt men to this day,
| Though all the angels I unthron'd,
t That joined then with he.
I Now, this before they’d all seen clear* .
. Just like the Type of man;
• And when my Coming did appear, ‘
' Like Hezekiau stand;
Though not a son shall I name him*
' But from the shadowgo: 7
3 0 TEUfc EXPLANATIONS 0 9 THE BIBLE*
Digitized by Google.
V
MANASSEH A TYPE OF SATAN. 31
t
T h e Jews he hardened then in sin, 1
And then brought on their woe9
T ill they were cast; and so did bursty ,
For he did so appear,
Ju st like Manasseh at the first— .
But I shall answer here ;
T h e Type in Man, I say was strong,
And strong shall be for all ; *
For like Manasseh he did come
To make my people fall.
Then I’ll appear to answer here,
If I did not spare Man. •
Which way the Tempter shall I clear? ** ,
These Kings you may command:
Tor as a king he does begin
, To war against his God ; '
And from the judgment thou hast drawn
May now by all be draw’d. ,
For all may say, as well as thee,
Sin ever will abound,
W hile Satan is your enemy.—
The hearts too strong are found,
Are drawn by he, you all may see,
If deeply you discern.
Sin in all nation* you may see.
The hearts of men he’d turn .
T o make them here for to appear,
The Type stands deep for man. >
From H ezekiah I shall clear,
The shadow first must com e;
Because the good you there allude
Did surely come the first;
And after him the evil came— »
And see how this did burst
Just so to man I now shall come, .
And your forefathers see;
T h e way my Gospel was brought
In strong belief to be,
That I should come again to them.
My people to redeem.
This is the way they did believe—
My coat without a seam.
If you see clear the shadow hare,
it must go through for all;
This is the way they did believe
I should redeem the Fall:
But now is come Manasseh strong,
And from them to depart: *
These are the sons throughout the land.
To wound your every heart.
That now ^rili go, as he did do,
Against yourFather rise.
So now, Manassehs all take caret
T is time for to grow wise!
Digitized by
For every way I now do say,
I’ve plac a the shadow here,
For men and devils now to sec;
Tis time for all to fear*
That will not stand by'tny command;
As David stood at first;
Though he did sin, to me ’tis known;
But know his grief did hurst:
He did repent, and did relent,
* The crime that he had done.
And now, 1 say, with one consent,
If men like hiitf return,
Their guilt I’ll free, I now tell thee—
« But l shall say no more,
J tell thee, till another day;
Then 1 shall answer here.’*
Here ends Tuesday night, Sept. 25, 1804&
32 TRUK SXtLANATIONS OR THK A(RLE'.
Wednesday Morning, Sept, 26, 1804.
W e received Mr. Foley’s t^goks—and Joanna was
deeply, affected in reading from the twelfth page to
the nineteenth, as it called all the past to her re­
membrance : and she thought on the dreadful horror
that she felt at that time, that she would not go
through again for the world: but in \khat powerful
manner the.Spirit of the Lord broke in upon her,
that she blesses the Lord for his abiding presence to
this day. She feels every happiness is centred in him.
“ Now, Joanna, I shall answer thee. The sha-
• dow of that day is a warning to thee and to all, as it
came first from thy jealousy, fearing thou hadst
done wrong, by disobeying my command; and
now I tell thee, and all men, wert thou now to dis­
obey my command, thy end would be more wretch­
ed and miserable, than it was for that hour; but by
thy obedience thou shalt find my Spirit as strong tot
deliver, as it broke in upon thee that day.
So do not fear ifdagger s near,
For thou shalt safe go through ;
My Bible by thee I shall clear,
And toy before their view.
So thou go on as thou’st bepun, -
To ponder through the whole ;
Digitized b
y
Google
SATAN TTBIFtEB BY JOAS,
A nd I'll appear to answer here,
And make the learned fall. '
T he ways of men must all be known, .
From Adam at the first;
Because his Maker he condemn’d j
T hen how can Mail be plac’d,
T he Promise claim that’s irot to Man?
N o; there the Type stands deep;
For to the Woman it must come5
—
For I in her shall break;
And/ then you’ll see the end to be—
For all a David’s reign.
*Tis not for one, I say to man,
But you must all see plain,
W hen I do come your Prince and King
Your Saviour to appear; ' i
You’ll find the power is not in men
The wo man’s vuilt to clear.
N o; rtis in me, alhflesh will see,-
For I shall free the whole;
A nd frohi the Fall, I tell you all, *
Tfie Serpent hc^nust fall.
T he Proihree ther^shall now appear,
And I shall^ake it good;
So men with thee they join’d must be*'
And judge me as a God.
I f I went on’to punish Man,
That me did disobey,
Shall I let Sataft always stand,
When I before did say, 1
T hat he should npt ? t told his lot—
*
Now trace hiy Bible through:
The different changes you forgot,
That lie before your view.
So I’ll go on the whole to change
Until I’ve chang’d the whole;
And Satan's doom is nearly cbme—
. lie like these-Kings shall fall.
In them he swell’d, I do know wells
Shall I the Authorfree Y
No! no! Tsay to thee this day,
My Bible true shall be; \
For he shall foil, I tell you 3 II,
As in iny Bible penn'd; ;
And like these Kings, I tell yotf all
He’ll surely find his end.
So Joafrhere thou didst see clear
How he went on with man;
And yet what sins in him appear d,
And how liis end.did borne !
On man at first the whole did burst,
The judgments did appear.—
1 know the ponderings of thy heart,
' When thou didst read it there.
E
\
Digitized by Google
That Joab met his awful fete*
That he did just deserve j
Because his sins, thou seest, were great,
How he in vice did live.
The blood of men on him did come,
That he by arts did slay ; .
Yet still with David he went on,—
Pretend hisfriend to be.
A mystery here thou canst not clear,
But i shall clear the whole,
And tell thee nlain of D avid’s reign,
By man diet surely fall; *
But now by m e ’t can never be j
I shall not act like man ;
Nbr with the Joabs will agree
fn any murderous plan.
No, no! to men, I tell them plairr,
In justice Vl\ appear,
When I bring in a David’s reig^,
’T shall be in spirit here.
Then it shall stand by my command,
Though man did surely fall:
The greatness here that ah) appear, • .
I now do tell you all,
To Solomon that did become^
W ho built the House to me,
It is a type that’s deep to Man $
Though I the D avid be,
It is by Man it must be done,
When I my sons do make
Like Solomon for to become, ,
The powers of Hell I’ll shake. '
Though he was cast, you know, at first, .
I Twas but a shadow there }
But all sdiall see the end to burst,
The substance shall appear;
In every land my sobs shall stand, ,
In wisdom great like he :
But not in sin for to begin------ _ .
N o: I shall come, the type to man
That did from him appear,
When he the house haaouilt to Mf,
^Mark thou the number there '
'That he did slay of beasts that day— *
And l shall slay the whole ; , ‘
Then the burnt offerings all shall see,
In peace and joy shall fell,
Always to stand by my command,
And men shall all possess; ‘
I’ll fill with glory every land, '
And I’ll enthrone in peace ;
In joy below shall blessings flow^
But, w » it doae by M an} *
TRUE EXPLANATIONS OP THE BIBLE
Digitized by Google
OF TUB TEM PLE OF SOLOMON. 9$
A Solomon, you all do know,
Did ne'er'enrich his land $
* N o: 'twas to one the whole did come,
But I’ll bring it to all «
That do appear; my sonsI’ll clear,
When 1 navefreed the fall.
1 K ings, viii. 63. “ And Solomon offered
sacrifice o f peace offerings, which he offered unto
the Lord, two and twenty thousand oxen, and
an hundred and twenty thousand sheep. So the
kin.tr and all the children of Israel dedicated the
house o f the Lord.”
“ N ow I tell thee, this type goeth deep. The
shadow o f the Beast was slain by M an: but
those beasts could tempt no one to sin ; but when I
come to establish my throne in righteousness, I shall
shy the Beast, which is the D evil; therefore it is the
number was so great.”
After this Joanna went on reading her Bible i arid
from the last chapter of the second book of Chronicles,
^found the words of the prophets were perfectly
fulfilled : And the vessels of the house of the Lord
weTe carried into Babylon, and the children of Israel
were made captives there: and the house of God’
was burnt and totally destroyed. Yet in reading
on, in E zra, chap. i. Cyrus king of Persia,
the Lord stirred up to build the house of God, and’
Jerusalem again ; but when they were going oh in
the buildings, in the fourth >
chapter, see how the
Devil stirred up-the people, by subtilty and arts, that'
it might not be built. There the work was defer­
red, until the second year of the reign of Darius king'
of Persia,, and all their arts could not prevail on
him to prevent the work ; for, in the 6 th chapter, he
commanded it to go on; and, in the 11th verse', who­
ever went to prevent the building was to be hanged.
So the building was completed. Now the ponder-,
ings of Joanna were these : The different spirit?
that were in men shew plainly the different masters
they are led b y ; and by subtle arts the enemyt
Digitized byGoogle
Went to prevent the building, by falsehood and lies,
and discovers clearly what the Devil is in substance,
by the shadow that appeareth in men. But I was
deeply affected in reading how much the children
of Israel were delighted, and how much they were
affected, in building, again the house to the Lord ;
in the jOlh chapter they had consented to put away
their 'wives, that they had taken from among the
heathen ; in Nehemiah, Qth chapter, how the chil­
dren of Israel confessed their sins and repented; iti
the 13th chapter, that they completed the w hole;
and observed how Solomon’s strange wives, or out­
landish women, caused him to sin; so they deter-
mined not to follow after them. Then followeth
Esther, by whose hand the Lord delivered the Jews;
when Haman had designed for them all to be mur­
dered. These wondrous workings of Providence
deeply affected my heart, to see how the Lord deli­
vered, when they turned unto him with all their
hearts. But one thing strikes deeply upon m e; thd
Lord only knoweth whether my thoughts are right
orWrong: The first house that was built to the Lord by
Solomon, appeareth to me in the pride of men ; for
though the Lord had commanded him to do it, yet
Certainly Solomon was swelled with pride by all the
grandeur that he kept up ; and that pride, and the
love of women, made him fall, and the house fell also;
but when the second house was built, it was through
opposition, through persecution, through humble­
ness of spirit, through a love to God, through a fear
to (^od, (for see how they lamented of their sins,
and confessed it was their sins that brought all fhe
judgments upon them, and they repented with fast?
jng and prayer,) and then the house stood ; and by
Esther’s petition the J ews had liberty to destroy all
their enemies, that were in the land where they
dwelt, that had decreed to destroy them. Esther,
ix: and x. Here my thoughts went deeply two
ways} the one to see the mercies of God, when
3 6 TRUE EXPLANATIONS OP THE BIBLE.
Digitized by Google
O t TT}% SECOND TEMPLE. 97
w eft turned hunibly to him ; and the other to see
how humbly they did return, which makes, me judge
the Lobd will do according to his promises, and
pity, the fallen state of men, when they humbly
turn to him. But see the different spirits of men ?
on e being hardened in the midst of judgments, and
the other being humble and confessing their sins, and
acknowledging the justice of God in their punishment,
appears to me but a Type of Men and D evils: How
Satan will be hardened and Man will be penitent.
These have been my observations and reflections,
and the ponderings of my heart, in reading; and
that there is the same difference of men upon earth,,
its there was in the angels in H e a v e n ; and this will
continue while Satan reigns, as long as he has power
to. make a division on Earth, as he did in Heaven.
These have been the ponderings pf my heart, and the
Lord pardon me if my thoughts have been wrong in
any thing, as I am ordered to pen the feelings of my
heart: and greatly did 1 feel in my heart for the
Jews, at their sincere repentance at the second
building of the house unto the L obd, which made
me think he would have mercy upon them in the
e n d , as he hath promised in my writings.
Now, Joanna, I shall begin to answer thee.
There is not a word in thy mouth, nor a thought in
thy heart, but I know it altogether; and as thou
hast jfaithfully spoken, there is not a thought in thy
heart, nor a word in thy mouth, that I blame; for
now I shall come to Solomon. As thou sayest the
house was built in pride, as well as obedience ; it is
t r u e ; and the pride of: man fell-, but as thou
6ayest the other house was built in humiliation and
in repentana, which stood till the pride of man
began to swell a g a i n B u t here I tell thee the Typie
goes deep. When Esther delivered her people*
know they were scattered throughout the earth, and
their Kings were destroyed, andi they were delivered
by the hand of a woman.. Here is a Type standi
Digitized by Google
3 8 TRUE •EXPLANATIONS OR THE BIBLE.'
deep for all men. When I had destroyed their
Kings, I delivered them by the hand of a woman,
and made their enemies become their friends, by
D a r iu s , and by A h a s u e b u s , as neither o f these
were Kings of the J e w s , but had declared themselves
their great enemies; and the latter was stirred up by
jtfaman ; but see what became of Hanian. Now thou
Jtnowest I have told'thee all things stand for Types
and Shadows of the End ; and here is a deep Type of
the E nd: when a man’s ways please the Lord, he will
make his enemies at peace with him. A n d now
I will tell thee how men’s ways may please me : when
men begin to act like the Jews, who went the
second time to build a house in my Name, they
wept to see the ruins of the fa ll of what had been
built and destroyed before—•
So now to all I thus shall call—
The Type goes deep for Man ;
Here is a shadow of the Fall*
When I at fin t began,
I sav, to lay the house of cloy.
That I did lay in Man ;
s Btit he from m e did fell, away,
Like Solomon become;
Soon tainted there he did appear.
As Satan’s arte were so,
The Woman did his heart ensnare,
And that you well do know’;
By Satan’s art she felt the dart^
And did the Man betray:
Like Solomon he soon did come,
His glory fell away.
So thus at first the Man was cast
Then hy the Woman there:
Like Solomon his fall did come-!—
There’s no man this can clear,
To sav *twas not: 1
*
11tell your lot—
*
This was the Fall at first;*
By Satan’s arts the Woman fell,
And so the Man was cast
But now see plain, ye sons of nfen,
T he mystery of the Fall;
.For now I tell thee, from his reign,
A paradise for all
I made at first; but Mah was cast,
By Satan’s artful hand:
Ton see the Woman so was plac'd*
'Vhe Serpent her trepan d,
j
Digitized by Google
^THB BIBLfi MADE A MI9-MAZi,' 3 9 -
Then sure the Fall, I tell you all,
Did much like his appear:
A nd by Jthe Woman Men did fall.
As Solomon did there. y '
So all went on, 1 tell you plain,
Till things grew worse and worse ;
' As in the Temple you did see
How every thing was plac’d ;
In grai\4eur there did all appear,
nut see how all fell down!
This way the Fall I mean to clear, ,
If men can judge the sound;
For I'll go on from man to man,
Till Esther all must see:
She freed her People iu the Land,
That was condemn’d |to die.
T hen now see clear the shadow here—
If Woman caus’d the Fall;
By Solomon the first did come,
And Esther freed them alL
T h e thing is,plain, I say to men.
Though it may to them appear
Ju st like the mis-maze * thou hast mad%
T he paths no man can clear;
T he way to go thou well dost know,
T o tread thy paths all round:
A nd yet 1 see ,the eye of thee— /
A straight path may he found
In every way, as it doth lay,
JJnto the ipiddle come:
All paths are straight before thy $igl& " '
r As thou dost here discern;
Though puzzling see the thing may he, .
W hich way will all go through,
T o bring it straight before your sight,
And now the whole you view.
Kow I’ll go on from what thou’st done,
A trifling shadow here,
Y et to the purpose I shall come.
And prove my Bible here.
As many ways, 1 now do say,
As they work’d this to night,
So many ways, I now do say, '
Men try to bring all straight;
But there’s in>t one,, to thee ’tis known.
That they did bring straight here;
The crooked paths to them were shewn, "«
Which they thought they must clear;
So they went round in every sound, ' :
But all brought crooked through, .
^ust so the legrped men are found, .
And bring all to thy view:
ju st so to, men I now shall come— t
My Bible I’ve plac’d there;
* This is explained further osk
m
l
V
Digitized by Google
i n TKtJR JSXPLAXAT10N8 Of SiB lx;
And crooked paths they all bring in*
No straight path man can clear.
For all have done* as those began—
Came crooked every way.
It was to shew the Type of Man*
That I work’d so in thee,
Toplace it here to make it clear,
That crooked men do go;
Therefore their hands I did prepare,
That they should work it so:
But as to thee it was by me,
That I thy hand Work’d straight
The mystery round must so be fooiicl,
To bring all things to light:
You must bring round in every sounds
Isay, my Bible here;
And then the straight path shall be founds
That I the whole shall clear.
The ways are two before thy view,
Which way to make it come;
The crooked paths before thy view
Were first work’d by thy hand;
T hin all was straight before thy tigh^
And so *tis straight for all,
I f men go through, as thou didst do*
And prove it from the Fall,
That crooked round have all been fountf
I tell thee^ to this day;
And as my handmaids nere were found,
Men’s wisdom works this way,
To bring all in as they began,
The paths were crooked there;
I said a straight path sure was seen.
And thou didst prove it clear:
But they did not behold the spot,
The way it straight must come ;
Just so, 1 say to thee, this day %
My Bible's work’d by m an;
For crooked here they all appear, '
And yet they judge ’tis straight
The way they work my Bible here ;
But now before thy sight,
There was not one that by his band
Did bring a straight path there;
TJnless’twas thee, they both did see,
Then how can they appear
T o say ’twas straight before their sight,
The way they work’d it round ?
—
And perfect so, they all shall know,
My shepherd all are found:
They wont the same, as these begaife
v Till I did work in thee.
T o have the straight path to appear,
The winding paths first tea
Digitized by Google
CONCERNING THE M IS-M A ZE. 4 1
* iPor to go round in every sound,
; • Thens copie. to j
*stvajght lipe;
, I tell thee, fyere T
t must soappear*
My Bible men mustfine!- ’
4t?9lber diy, thee; 1 say,
I'll place the TypQohce ajora:
* ^ And then my handmaids I wiU tryfl
* : Jfthcy can straight appear.
•
. Ilene Jffednesday, ntghh Sept. 2& This taken
ire,m>lQAnp& SputhcottV mouth.
J a n e T o w n l e y . ,
©EAR S ir , Saturday, September 2Q, 1604.
M y last letter must have appeared very puzzling,
as I had not time to explain the Mis-maze. Since
Joanna was ordered to (hop her pen, she saith th$
words that are given Her throw so great * light upon
her mind, Jfhat while we were writing the lines that
she spoke, she began to ruminate and ponder deeply
in her,own heart, which made her often, forget the
words that were spoken to her ; for when she" wrote
her ownseltj she had then no time to ponder, as she
was engaged in writing. So that of late, to prevent
any pondering with the words of the Lprd, she has
amused her thoughts in taking scraps pf paper ah(J
doubling them to cut them in holes like diamonds.
This she often did when in bed ; and.finding by
this amusement her thoughtsj were so ]employed ip
what she was doing, she never lost a, woun that the
"Lo rd said tp her. B\it since she has been up, she
has often amused herself in bending these scraps of
paper to make them stand upbn the table; and, as
riie had seen a Mis-maze at Lord llolle's, she now
sits day after day, when the Spirit of the Lord
bleaks in upon her, amusing herself with making
of Mis-mazes with the paper on the table ; and then
she has no thought of her own, only amusing her-
F
;• - Digitized by Google. *
self with what she was doing; and as soon as we
had written one line, she distinctly had another
line given her, as fast as we could write them . In
this manner she was amusing herself, when we were
writing about Solo m o n . She had placed a large
pincushion in the middle and made a mis-maze all
round it, and then the words were spoken to her
pf what she had done. So Underwood arid I were
ordered to take a -pencil, and work round all her
scraps of paper, some of them the length o f the
line I have drawn *, some still longer, and some
shorter, placed round like hedges in a mis-maze ;
and we were to try to work round them, so as to
bring them into a straight line in the middle ; but
thinking we were to bring every one to the middle,
by so doing we brought them all crooked, which
were twenty-four in number. Then Joanna took
the, pencil and worked round the outward ones first,
and when she came to the bottom, she brought
them up in a straight line to the middle, and the
same at the to p ; and so she worked the table
round, arid brought them into four straight lines,
that we brought into twenty-four crooked ones;
Now I have told you the sense, you will understand
the meaning of what was written of the Mis-maze.
W e were all ordered to draw our judgment, what
was meant by the four straight paths. Townley’s
judgment:—The word of the Lord—rthe light of
the Gospel—the Salvation—and the Redemption of
Man, Underwood’s :—The word of the Lord to
Joanna— the light of the Gospel given through her—
men’s wisdom to be thrown aside— and give them­
selves up wholly to be taught of the Lord. While
we were- drawing our judgments Joanna said, she
, would not think herself wiser than us, if she drew
her judgment clearer; becausje a light broke in
upon her, and told, that it was the Promise made of
the Woman in the Creation— the Promise that was
* A line of about J&
ixinches in length.
ir
4 2 TRUE EXPLANATIONS OF THE Bl&Ltf.
Digitized by G o o g le
C O N C E R N IN G TH E M IS* M A Z E .' 43
, \
made to th e Woman at the Fall—Christ’s death to
clear the o n e — and his Second Coming to claim and
fulfil the other.
«< Now Joanna thefe I’ll answer:
Though the first I will not blame;
Y et ’tis 1,'that am thy Master,
Work’d thyjudgment, none can shame^
Because at first it so was plac’d, ,
And so I’ll work all round;
*The others' judgments I’ll not cast,
Because my words are found
Mo make all true before their view, •
The straight path to appear.
Mhejudgment that was drawn by you
Shews how the wise do err ;
And yet I say the words of they,
Though varied in the sound,
They had a judgment I do know,
That must mankind confound.
The lines were here I now shall clear,
Thou drew’st them straight at first,
*' And in the end 'twds my intend
Thy judgment right should burst j
' For it was I who dwell on high
t Did assist thee in the thought.
Thv thoughts were right before mens sight>
for so must ail be wrote.
I tell you plain, yc sons of m6n,
My Bible you work bo,
That all is straight before your sight;
, ^ . And then the end you’ll know,
~ I shall bring in, as thou’st begun, '
- I tell thee, from the Eall;
No other way, to men 1 say,
You can my Bible call,
To make it straight before your^sight^-
N o: crooked men go on;
The winding way there’s none doth see
IloW in the end’t must come,
Till I’ve work’d round in every sound
My Bible to appeitr 5
For every leaf men must work round,
As I have work’d them here;
And then mY 'vorp that's on record
Will make my Gospel true:
The differentjudgments all did draw*
‘ Be laid before your view.’*
F a
Digitized by Google
*4 ' LETTEfeS TO AN** t lO if
fVe are commanded to insert the f 6llowing tetters, tfk
reasons for which w ill he clearly seen hereafter Hy
the public, as they 'are now by those ivbho are dili­
gently examining the writings of Joanna Southcotf,
to know the ttue meaning of the Bible concerning
these latter days.
A COPY OF A LETTER FROM JOANNA TO THE,
REV. MR. POMEROY.
r ev. sib;
I have a message from God onto you. If you
will not be a just judge, be an unjust judge, that I
may be avenged of my adversary. Therefore renddc
unto Caesar the things which are Caesar’6, and unto
God the things which are God’s : but the things that
are God’s you have kept back, and you say,committed
to the flames. Then my answer is, out of your own
mouth will I condertm you : and you will find you
have a God to deal w ith; therefore you must give
a satisfactory answer, why you burnt the letters ?and
what they contained ?—You may say, I am he that
troubleth Israel: but I have not troubled Israel\
but I am troubling you and your father’s housed
which I mean are the Bis^pps, because you call them
reverend fathers in God. They have acted just like
you, to keep back the truths of the Bible, as you
have kept back the truths of my writings; they have
denied the truths of the Bible, as you have denied
the truths of my writings ; they have denied the
promise made in the Ml to the woman; that though
they must own it was a promise made, yet they deny
it to be a promise to be claimed ; or a promise that
ever theLord will fulfil* Then yvhatdo men makp
Digitized by Google
I
t i s * ItfiV . POStEKOT. &b
o f their B ib les ?' It was to shew what mankind is;
that the Loi'd ordered me to put the writings i your
hands, and. concealed from me, that you would go
Froth your word, ;and not be as good as your promise.'
Arid nbw, sir, I must come to the purpose with you.
You rttay think it strange, when I tell you, there is
hot one m an upon earth,, hath strengthened my faith
SOm uch t o prove clearly my visitation from the Lord,
as you have : you may ask me how ? To this I an­
swer : ’W hen I first sent to you concerning my pro*
phecies, in 1796, you declared to me, they werene-
ver from the D evil; but have often pleaded with me;
if they were not from myself? But I was the judge
there ■
; and knew they Were not of m yselfand as you
affirmed they were not from the Devil, then I knew
they must be from the Lord. Now, while you affirm
lily Writings were not'from the Devil, you acted as
a Worthy, religious miriister; as a wise man, as a
igood man, and-as one that seemed to wish to be
clbkr in-judging, before you condemned. You told
hie, in 1796, you was willing to receive any thing
from my hands, that you might be a judge of the
truth ; and when the truth followed by the Bishop's
death,.you asked me in Mr; Taylor’s house, and in
Mrs. Tfayl'dr’s presence, in January 1797, if I could
put into your hapds the events of the wars concerning
Italy, or England; then you wduld believe my call­
ing was of God ? The week following I put in your
hahds what would happen to Italy, which took place
within the six months you- mentioned; asyou asked me
what Would happen in three months, dr Six mbnths.
I put in your haitds, England would seek for peace,
but in Vain ; for we had involved ourselves in such
tumults of war, that the wise men, with all their
Wisdom, would- not be-able to make a peace ; and
that latge suttis bf mohey would be demanded at the
endofthe year; all these truths, you know followed.
ButIConfess you simply asked die if I did not knour
Digitized by Google
these things from myself; which* you know* I told
you, I knew no more.from myself than ydur table;
At the same time there were in the writings events
that were to take place in years to come* that now
6eem bursting out in all nations ; and you told m e
yourself, you knew they would be true ;. yet for some
time disputed with me, if it was not from myself, for
my own knowledge ; but When I assured you it was
not from myself, and I had no knowledge of my own,
you asked me, why I did not publish to the world ?
For, if you was clear you was called of God, you
would fear no man. And now, sir, I am clear I am
called of God ; for the. wondrous visitation that hath
happened to me for the three months past, is im­
possible to come from any but a G od ; therefore I
shall fear no man’s words, neither shall I be dismay­
ed at. their looks : for little do men know what lieth
before them. You know I put in your hands the
truth of the harvests in 1799, and the 1800 ; and it
has stood me in pounds to put writings in your hands,
which you always promised faithfully to keep, and.
faithfully to deliver to me, whenever my trial was:
and now my trial draweth near, and I shall hold you
to your words, and to your promises ; and if you go
from them, I have more just grounds to publish you
To the world, that the Devil has taken the advantage
over you, than you could have to publish to the
world that I was led by the Devil, to put your namt
in print, as the Lord had commanded m e; but that
command you said was from'the Devil. Now, sir,
reflect on the change of your conduct i how you
acted before, when you said my writings were not
from the Devil, how faithfully you promised to act.
How you said you would meet with six, or with
twelve to prove my writings. How you asked me, in
Mr. Taylor’s house, in 1801-, to put the prophecy uj- '
your hands of that harvest, that 1 told you I'had put
m Mr. Jones’s ; for you said, in Mrs. Taylor’s pre-
46 LETTERS TO AJfD FROM
Digitized by Cooglc
senCe, if you was to be thejudge, the writings ought
to be put in your hands ; which I complied with, and
carried them to you. You promised to keep the whole
safe ; and told me you had ^very one of my letters
in your bureau, that you would keep safely for me.
B u t as soon as the Lord put you to the trial, to see if
y ou could bear the mockery of men, and the ridicule
o f the world, for his sake, by having your name in
print, how soon did the fine gold become dim 1
H ow soon did you begin to act like Pilate, fearing
th e Jews !, and just so you began to fear men, that
you should lose your honour amongst them. But
know what our Saviour said : He that loseth his life
for tfiy sake, shall find i t ; but he that saveth it, shall
lose it. Now you tried to save your honour amongst
m en ; and that is the way you have lost it : for the
honour of the world workefh death to the honour of
G od ; and that death you soon fell into ; for you be­
gan in the Spirit, but you ended in the flesh. Here
your wrath began, by fearing the honour of men; and
y ou let the sun go down Upon your wrath ; and so
yovi gave place to the Devil. Then you sent to me to
give in rpy .sacrament ticket, to turn me from the
altar, which I faithfully delivered up to you, at your
request, as I well knew there were other ministers I
could go to, to receive the sacrament; but after
that your conscience seemed to reprove you, you
sent me a note to come again, and invited me to
come by Mrs. Taylor; then, after that, you sent for
m e togive up the second note-, and because I had mis­
laid it, and could not find it directly, you seemed to
.be angry that it was not returned ; but as soon as X
found it X faithfully returned it to you. Then you
came to Mrs. Taylor’s, and told her and me how
you was situated, and how the ministers were all
plaguing you, that you could not go intp company,
jf I would not sign that you had said my writings
were from the Devil. Mrs. Taylor expostulated
TH E REV. MR. POMEROY. &T
Digitized by G o g g l e
jvith you, that you had never said they were from
the Pevil, but you had affirmed to the contrary j
but you made answer, you had said it was from the
Devil, my putting your name in print, which I
confess was true; and as you cried, and said I should
kill you if I would not sign it, I gave you the ad­
vantage of that word, as you thought it would re­
claim your injured honour. But how did you your­
self go on with principles to lose that honour, that
you with subtilty went to claim ? f Returned to you
evyry demand you had of me, by returning the sa­
crament tickets ; though I never promised it before
you dethanded them, and then I returned them.
But how unjustly did you deal with me ? As soon
as I demanded all my writings, yoU went from the
})romises of a man, refused to return me one of my
etters, hut told Mr. Taylor that you had burnt
them, and that you was persuaded to clo i t ; so you
broke your word', you broke your promise, and you
dealt unjustly with me. Now do you think the Lora
is another such as yourself, to brieak all his words>
all his promises, and to act unjustly, as you have
done ? This change of conduct in you truly con-
vinceth me, that you gave the Devil tjiat advantage
pvef you, that you published to .the tyorld he had
over me,," And now I shall call to your remembrance
the words 'I,said unto, you in Mr. TaylorV house,
when Mrs', Taylor said to me, she feared your adver-j
tisement would hurt the cause 5you know I made an­
swer, that was impossible : fpr what was of men would •
come' to nothing,, but what was of pod they could
pot overthrow, lest they were found to fight against.
God. You answered, that was true. And now I an­
swer, you are fighting against God : but’you can­
not fight against1God and prosper, See how soop
your eyes were darkened ; see hojv soon your under­
standing was hid, when you were seeding the praise
of man more than the praise of God i ana the
4$ 1ETTEB S TO An d FROrf
*, Digitized by Google
honour of men more than the honour of God. How
did that honour you contend for come to nothing,
by your own conduct, by not returning back my
letters, according to your promise ? This provoked,
the Lord to anger against you, and I was ordered to
publish to the world all your conduct; so the ho­
nour you contend for, you yourself brought to no­
thing ; but the honour of God, and the visitation of
G od, it is not you, nor all the clergy in England
can overthrow. All the Bishops have been written
to, that if they would come forward, or send twenty-
four of their ministers, to meet the twenty-four whom
the Lord has chosen, to have a fair investigation
into all the writings for seven days, if they could,
then prove they came from the Devil, they should
be then given up to their judgment; but this dies:
Bishops have declined, as they know it is a thing
impossible for man to prove ; so their silence gives
consent that the writings are from the Lord. The.
Religious Society * have been appealed to likewise ;
and they are silent. So all their silence gives con­
sent, that the calling is of God, and they cannot over­
throw it. But this way that you acted to overthrow
it was like throwing of oil into the fire, and make,
the flames burn the greater." So you have been the;
murderer of your own honour, and convinced ma
clearly that it was you and not me, that was deceived
by the subtle arts of the Devil. And now I shall
come to M r.,Jones. The Lord commanded me to
send Mr. Jones unto you, to reprove you, as Na-
than reproved David ; but you refused to hear the
reproof, and blamed Mr. Jones for obeying the,
command, and returning the answer you gave him.
Now I shall come to reason. Mr. Jones, believes
my visitation to be from the Lord, and in obedience,
.to his command he waited upon you. Npw if you
.* The.Spciety for the^upprcssion of Vice;
THE BBV, MR. PpMEEOT. 4.Q
Digitized by Google
St) LKXiERS TO FfcQW
blame Mr. Jones for doing that, I must beg you
Spill throw off your gown : what use is your mock­
ing of God to go into your pqlpit, and tell people to
obey the commands of the Lord, and then to go out
of your pulpit and abuse them for doiog the very
thing that they believed the Lord had commanded
them ? For it is by faith we must be saved. And now
I shall ask. you one question: Supposing a Jew, who
never believed in Christ, but believed hirnao im­
postor, as the Jews do, yet if that man being a gen­
tleman of great property, and wishing to have land
like the Christians, and say I will turn Christian, I
Will turn to the Gu$pel, and 1 will take the sacm-
ment, to worship what I believe an impostor, be­
cause I will have a title and honour amongst m en;
would not that Jew be a greater sinner, that could
thus mock God in his heart, than the othqrJ«K*
who would not . worship him as a Saviour, out of
conscience to the Lord, because they did not .be­
lieve he who was the Saviour— only trusted in one
God ? which, judge you, would be the greatest sin­
ner ? You must believe it to be hipa who mocked God
with his unbelief; because it is from the heart man
believeth unto righteousness; and the Lord judgeth
not as man judgeth, by outward appearance; the
Xord judgeth from the heart. So, from the faith
of Mr. Jones, you must blame the man for doing*
what he judged, doing his duty ; and to sin against
God and his own consciences And is this advice
worthy of a clergyman ? Can you justify yourself
in these things ? I tell you, No. Your arguments .
Were to bring sin upon Mr. Jones’s head, and to
blame him for doing what be judged was the will
of the Lord concerning him. And now I shill
come to my Brother. You say, my Brother ought
to .be. horse-whipped, for claitning justice to be.
done to his Sister. Then what religion do you
preach ? or, how wqqkl you wish brothers and
Digitized by Google
lifters to be united together ? Ought not brotherly
love to continue ? Doth not iny Brother know the
manner o f my life,- from my yoifth up to this dav^
better than you do ? MyBrcfther kftoifreth 1 should
bring no lies before him ; he knew he fcould de*
pend upon the truth o f all I told him, and
the unjust manner that you had dealt with ihe, .my
Brother knows I should never have kid ft before
him , ,if it was not true. Then how can you judge
rpy Brother a.Christian, a man of tender feeling#
for his Sister, as a Brother ought to have, if h i
Would nOt support my cause when' he saw me so
unjustly dealt with, knowing I had no Father liv­
ing, nor tio husband) to “
protect me ? And now £
tnu st call, to your reihembrance your own beha­
viour ‘to Mrs. Syrtionds, when you bid her go out
of yOur house, in my :presence, liecause you said;
bet husband had offended Mrs. Pomeroy, and said,
you wtrnld sooner forg?ve..an offence done to your*
self, than dne that was done to Mrs. Pomeroy, as
you cbuld put harm! from youtself, but she could
cot. Then how tan you justify in yourself a prin­
ciple you condemn in another ? .Can yotf prove
Hite World, that Mr. Synrfonds’s affront to Mri*
Pomeroy was a quarter so great as. yours has been
t6 me ? I tell you, No ; and your Own conscience
must condemn yon. Your'offence against mfe is
ten thousand times greater than Mr. Symemds’s
was against Mrs. Pomeroy : for though Mr. Sy-
morids might utte harsh words, yet his offence wals
only to have her stand to Iter bargains she had
made. Then wheri was the offence? Only you
may say in harsh words, and what iharsh >worcfe have
you used o f my Brother., when hi acted in my princi­
ples, that you thought rightto,justify yourself in? But
it is impossible for you fo justify your cause, as much
as it is -for my Brother to justify my cause. So, tf
you Would weigh these things together, with ah
0 2
TH2 103V. MR. POMBROf.
Digitized by Google
the conduct that you have acted since you said my
writings were from the Devil, you would see there
was more reason for you to fear that the powers of
darkness had deceived you by temptations, than it
was to believe that I, in all things, was obedient
to the Devil, doing every thing that he commanded
me. Does not our Saviour say, the tree is known
,by the fruit ? Now, what fruit can you condemn
in me ? M y life and character will bear the strictest
Scrutiny; and I have feared sin more than death
from my youth up unto this day. And flew I may
say with Samuel, here I am before the Lord and
before his anointed ; witness against me, whose ox
have I taken ? whose ass have I taken ? or from
Whose hands have I received a bribe, to blind
my eyes therewith ? But the Lord is my judge,
and is witness against you': and as wrong as Pilate
condemned our Saviour, much wronger you have
condemned m e; because Pilate confessed he was
innocent; but he that tempted you to this evil has
the greater ain. And now I tell you, as all your
conduct is in public print, and the manner of your
beeping back my letters, there is no way you can
clear your honour, unless you come forward with
the truth, and acknowledge every letter that was
put in your hands, and the truth they contained;
and assign your reasons why you burnt and de­
stroyed them. The reasons you assigned to Mr.
Taylor were, that you was persuaded to it. Then
I answer, the person that persuaded you to burn
them, persuaded you to injure your honour and a
good conscience, as the world has tried to persuade
m e ; .but blessed be God, I never took their ad­
vice : and it would have been happy for you, if
you had never neither^; but went on as you began,
till you could justify yourself before God and man;
and shew it plain to the whole world, that you was
Clear in judging before you condemned. But yen)
LETTERS TO AND FROM
) Digitized by Google
TTHE REV. MB. POMEROY- 13
burnt tny letters, as you say, because you knew, if
they appeared, you could not justify .yourself in
.what you have done; but they being from the De­
vil, you would readily have produced them before
the ministers, artd said, I had never put any truths
in your hands, and shewed the letters to prove it.
But as you did not then let the truth appear,- you
must let the truth appear now ; for it is not to say
I am troubling you, but the Lord hath commanded
m e to trouble you till you acknowledge the truth.
W hen I jeceived your answer from Mr. Jones, the
day following, I was as sick as death, which con­
tinued all the day ; and was deeply answered, the.
Lord was as sick of your conduct and the clergy,
as I was that day ; but my sickness he would never
remove, till my Brother had written to you a second
time ; and as soon as my brother had written, the
Lord removed my sickness from me. Three months
the Lord has taken my appetite from bread, or any
thing made of the produce of wheat; and deeply
are the words said to me, that if you and the clergy
go on, as they are going on, three years the Lord
will take bread from the nation, by bringing a total
famine in the land; and my appetite he will never
restore more to wheat, till I have demanded the
truth from you. So must beg a satisfactory answer
. 40 this letter.
Taken from Joanna Southcott’s mouth.
Witnesses,
Dated, Se^i. 17, 1804.
J a n e T o w n l e y ,
F r ances T aylor,
A nn U n d e r w o o d .
Digitized by Google
M £B t * brs t o a n d tB O ft
' copy of the rev. j. posiERbY'S tfefrfeR fd
the rev. S
tanhope bruce.
IIev. Sir,
After hear a fortnight’s absence, I have found 09
my return a most extraordinary letter from that de­
luded woman Joanna Sonthcott, who is now, I
presume, with you. Be so good as to assure her
again of what I assured her about two yeafs since,
(that except her lad) I have no letters, writings, Or
papers whatsoever of, or belonging. to her: if I had
I would certainly send them to her. Indeed I knoW
nothing of her, but from the insulting letters I, re­
ceive, wherein I am treated with the rrieat virulent
abuse, for not doing what it is impossible for me to
do.— The scandalous reflections she has made} tht
misrepresentations of my conversation With hear;
the false accusations and charges she has made in
her publications; the irreparable injury she has
done to my character; and returning the good ad­
vice I gave her With so much ev il; confirm .toe
more than ever in my former opinion, that she is
under the influence of a deranged state of mind, or
the evil Spirit; for you must allow, that such im
jurious, ungrateful, and malicious conduct, cannot
proceed from the'holy and benevolent Spirit of
God. Surely, Sit, such behaviour cannot meet
with the approbation of yourself, or her other
friends} therefore I hope, that you and they wifi
endeavour to convince her of the impropriety and
sinfulness of it, and will prevail on her to desist
from troubling me with any more letters,..and from
persevering in the diabolical practice of traducing
my character in print; for which illegal, as well as
unchristian conduct, God will certainly bring her i
into judgment. Not having time to answer the
Digitized by Google
pjsfly IcfteES I receive respecting her, they must be
returned unopened, especially ,as I have nothing
fort^r tgsay op this subject*
I remain, Reverend Sir,
Your humble servant,
9 fM , 1§Q*, J P .
TO THE REVEREND MR. POMEROY,
BODMIN, CORNWALL.
JU
v. 8ia, Oct. 9th, I8
D
4
.
1 cannot pen my astonishment op hearing the
letter read, that you sent to Mr* Bruce, concejv
ping me, which I am bound in dpty to turn back
upon your own head. If you have so far stifled
conscience, as to let it come as a swift witness against
you, I have living witnesses of all the letters I put
in your hand. Reflect how- many fetters Mrs, Bou­
cher hath delivered to you from me; how many
Utters Mi*9 Bird hath carried you, six sheets of
paper at once at the end of 179? ; consider how
many letters Mrs, Taylor hath sent you by her ser­
vant; and how many Mrs.’ Symopds’s children.
Nqw I have living witnesses, as it is kpowp to you,
that copied off'the letters that I put in your hands j
and o f a particular instance in 1796, the perfect
truthofl797, of Italy and England; the truth of thp
harvests of 1799 and the 1800; and the truth of
the harvest of 1801 ; with many other weighty and
true prophecies, that are now upon the Earth* All
these you promised faithfully you would return, fof
me or against me y and you never told rpp in youj
fife you had destroyed them ; but you told me they,
were all safe, But, when I demanded them ihl8;02,
you told Mr. Taylor you had burnt them; and said
| had written you a seYere letter for doing it> - And
.BPY. MR. PQMBSQY. $5
Digitized by v^oogle
when Mr. Taylor reproved you, you said you watt
persuaded to do it. Now you say I desire of you
. what is impossible for you to do. I grant it is im­
possible for yoif to return the letters, if you have
burnt them., But is it a thing impossible for you to
act as an honest, upright man; to acknowledge your
fault in burning the letters, and betraying the trust
that was put in you ; and to act with honour; to ac­
knowledge the truth they contained ? Have you
given yourself up so far to the powers of darkness,
to have such influence over you, that it is impossible
for you to act with honour and honesty ? Then f
have more reason to say your senses are deranged,
and, that you are led by ah evil spirit, than you have
to say I am deranged,, or that an evil spirit leads me.
Know what is said, the 12th chapter of Proverbs,
lg ti verse-—*
* The lip of truth shall be established
for1ever; but a lying tongue is but for a moment.”
And the letter you have sent to Mr. Bruce is fuH of
lies: as you say I have published false accusations
and charges against you. Now, Sir, I can bring
forward ten living witnesses, that I have published
nothing concerning you but the truth ; and your
own conscience is witness against you. For if I had
published any thing that was false, the law is open,
and you would appear to clear your own honour, -if
you could; but you know that is impossible, unless
you come forward to acknowledge, your faults.
Trying to conceal them only brings you deeper and
deeper into them. Now, as to yoyr saying mine
is malicious conduct, to contend for the truth, you
must put your Bible out of dobrs; but I think you
have acted with injurious and malicious conduct
towards me: First, to advertise me as a woman
being led by the D evil; and said nothing else would
free you from trouble; then to burn all the letters I
had put in your hands, because the' truth should
not appear for me. Now where could a man aft
*6 LETTERS TO AKh FROM
Digitized by Google (
Th £ KEV. Mfi. POMtROt. 57
-with greater malice and unjust principles than that ?
Now you say it is not consistent with a merciful and
benevolent God, to visit you as I do, for your un­
just dealing to me. Then what do you make of the
prbpheCies of .Jeretniah, 36 th chapter 23d verse ?
whereJehoiakim— “ had rfead three or four leaves he
cutit with a pen-knife and cast it into the fire that was
on the hearth, until all the roll was consumed in the
fire. Yet they were not afraid.”— But know what the
Lord said to Jeremiah, in the 28th verse: “ Take thee
again another roll, and write in it all the former
words that were in the first roll, which Jehoiakim
the king of Judah hath burned. And thou shalt
say to Jehoiakim king of Judah, Thus saith the
Lord : Thou hast burned this roll, saying, W hy hast
thou written therein, saying, The king of Babylon
shall certainly Come and destroy this land, and shall
cause to cease from thence man and beast ? There­
fore thus saith the Lord of Jehoiakim king of Judah;
He shall have none to sit upon the throne of David;
and his dead body shall be cast out in the day to
the heat, and in the night to the frost. And I will
punish him, and his seed, and his servants, for their'
iniquity.” . Now did the unbelief of Jehoiakim
prevent the evils that1the Lord had threatened
against him ? And did not the Lord conmfartd >
Jeremiah to Warn Jehoiakim again, of the evil that
he had done in burning the roll ? Yet, when he
did it, I suppose he -judged Jeremiah as deluded a
tnan as you judge me a deluded woman ; but his
judgment did not prevent the Lord from ordering
Jeremiah to trouble him again; nor prevent the
judgments that were threatened against him. Now
the ridiculous judgment you have drawn of me, as
being a deranged woman, does not make me so, ho
more than the unbelief of Jehoiakim made Jeremiah
a false prophet; or the unbelief of Lot’s sons proved
their-father an old fool j or the unbelief of the Jews
H
Digitized by G o o g l e
proved that our Saviour was,not the Messiah tffat was
prophesied of. I do not tell you what my judg­
ment is of you ; neither do I ask you what your
judgment is of me ; I only ask for equity, justice,
and truth; and that you have denied me. So I do
hot marvel at the ridiculous manner you have
spoken of m e f o r people often hate those they have
irijured. And now the words of the Lord concern­
ing you, are like the words of the Lord to Jeremiah,
concerning. Jehoiakim. In three things you have
provoked the Lord to anger against you: in. turning
me from the sacrament, in betraying your trust, in
, burning the roll wherein the words of the Lord were
Contained; and so you have done despite to the Spi­
rit of God. Now judge for yourself; if you say
your honour is gone, who robbed, you of that ho­
nour; but your ow a wrong conduct ? W hy hare
you not done in the. first place, as you now $ay you _
would do, if you had got them now, you would re­
turn; them?; But why did you not return themi
when you had got them ? W hy did you burn them ?
Your saying what you would do mow, is like a man
that has committed murder, and when he is called to^
take his trial,' say if the man were now alive I would
not kill him ; and so I hope the judge will forgive
.me;'because it is impossible for me now to bring
the: inan.to life : and so I know it is impossible for
you . to fecal the wrong principles that you, have
acted with'; but if you have any regard for the glory
of .God, or any regard for, your own honour as a
minister, you ‘would now come forward to clear up,
every truth. I would not lie under the slander of
your letter without'coming forward to clear myself
if you would give me a million of money. If I
were to do so, I must disgrace my. God and
Saviour, whose servant I profess co be ; and to
know his will and obey it is the study and practice
»f my life: aud the advice you gave m e,'in your.
5$ LETTERS TO ANA FROM
Digitized by Google
fetter, is like the advice of the serpeqt to Eve,
and much more fatal than her end was, my end
must he if I take it. So now if you wish to clear
your honour, yt>u must come forward with every
truth. You see your letter is in print, as your false
accusations cannot injure my innocence; for by the
answer I have sent you, every man upon earth, that
hath a grain of sense must know you cannot clear
yourself if yoq are silent now. The letter that I
sent yon before, I shall put in print likewise ; and
I have not printed a word concerning you but I can
affirm to be truth, and can bring forward witnesses
to prove it. And now J see the wisdom of the Lprd,
why he ordered me to take witnesses with me, when
I went to your house on any deep and weighty sub­
ject, which you know I told you I was ordered to
do. And now, Sir, if you will come forward, aha
acknowledge every truth, tell who persuaded yon
to burn the letters, assign your reasons for listening
to such wrong advice, then you may clear that hor
hour ybu say yrou have lo st; but you cannot fight
against God and prosper. I know my calling to be
Of God; and I want nothing of you, but to acknow­
ledge the truth bf what was put in your hands; every
particular concerning you and me I was ordered tb
put in print. And shall I disobey the command of
the Lord, tb be a man-pleaser ? I tell you No. W ho
•ought we' to obey, God or man, judge ye r Now,
Sir, I shall conclude with saying, if I had put in
print as false an accusation against you, as you
Wrote to Mr. Brute against me, 1 should despise my
name, and hate myself for ever. What do you
make of that benevolent God, whom you mentiob,
if you judge him another such as yourself, first to-
tell man he is in the right road, and at the end to
tell him that road was destruction ? Forjust so was
your good advice to me ; for you always assured me,
my writings were not from the Devil, before I put
Ha
THE EEV. ME. POMEftOY. 5jj
Digitized by Google
60 lettbrs to and front
your name in print; but I confess you did givp in?
good advice, to say it would be fatal fpr me, if my.
foreknowledge and my writings came from myself,
and I had placed it to the Lord ; but this advice I
never wanted of any man, fpr I had a deeper sense of
that sin than any man livjng could tell me ; so l
myself am the judge there. Now as you bpast so
much of your goodness, you have made all your .
good be pvil spoken of, and the best of your good­
ness towards me, is fhe duty of eveiy minister, upon,
earth; for when any one is strongly visited by a spirit
invisible, it is the duty of a minister to tfy to search
but what that spirit is. So if other ministers neglect­
ed their duty, is it any excuse for you to copy after
them ? You say, Sir, you wish my friends to per-r
suade me to trouble you no more ; at this I do not
marvel, for if you owed a person 50001. and you were
1not able to pay him, you would be glad to get a
friend to prevail on the man not to trouble you for
the money. You are now running yourself deeper
' and deeper'in debt to treat me in this manner, to rob
me of all truth and innocence. But I am sorry tQ
say you began in. the spirit, and end in the flesh.
The Lord grant you may see your errors before it is
too late. This is my answer to your insolent and
abusive letter, that you cannot come forward to an­
swer in a word, to justify the letter you have sent;
for | tell you it is full of falsehood and lies.
From your injured friend,
; J o a n n a So v th q o tt,
Digitized^by G o o g l e
THBREV. MR. FOMBROY. 6 l
TO THE REVEREND J. POMEROY,
BODMIN, CORNWALL.
R ev. Sir, Oct. 8, 1804.
As no letters go to Joanna Southcott, but through
my hands, the letter you .sent to the Rev.' Stan­
hope Bruce, concerning her, was brought to me,
and I read it to her, and saw the agitation of her
spirit, being provoked to hear your letter, that she
affirmed was entirely false ; and I have every reason
to helieve it is false, from what I have heard from
Miss Fanny Taylor, who was with me a quarter of
a year, and said she copied many of the letters for
Joanna to you ; especially that of the 1797, foretell­
ing the events of England, and Italy, and many
other letters, that had come true ; and she perfectly
remembered hearing her mother say, all that Joanna
had said of you,was true, who knew more particulars
of- private conversation than she did. Now from
this assertion ofM iss Fanny Taylor, and the spirited
manner Joanna immediately answered for herself,
prdering your letter to be put in print, giving her
answer so clearly to it, that she is ready to come for­
ward to answer to every truth, and demanding
your coming forward to answer for yourself ■
, and
having daily, seen Joanna ever since the 20 of April,
that she came to my house in London ; and having
seen in her the mo$t perfect, upright, just, and inno­
cent dealings ; that she acts with no deceit,' nofalse­
hoods, or arts, and perfectly answers the character I
had heard pf her, from many respectable people,
that she was truth, innocence, and simplicity : andper­
fectly so I have found, her. This makes me think
you, Sir, are the transgressor, and that she is inno­
cent of what you have laid to her charge. But if
you come forward, and can prove your assertions to
|>e true, j shallbe open to conviction; but you
Digitized by Google
(5% IiCTTWM TO'AWBTIOTT
must think you were writing to madmen and fools,,
if you think we'should persuade Joanna to be silent
to your slanderous -letter-against her { then you and
the world might think we are supporting falsehood
and deceit, for which /' should despise myself; and
as her books that are lately printed, nave been taken
by m.y'hand from her mouth, I should disgrace
myself if I were not to call you to an explanation o f
your letter, that I may know if she had told hie any
thing false. If you can prove that, I have done ;
but I cannot rely on your words, except you come
forward loprove your assertions. Joanna is ready
to meet you at the trial* and demands nothing'of
yOu but the truth. Now if you are not ashamed to
own the .truth, you will certainly come forward to
clear yourself. If you do not, what must yob think
of yourself, to injure the character of kh innocent
woman, to try to set all her friends against herj
which you must do, if me believe ydur assertions'td
be true; but if you canriot pfovfe your assertions, I
have more reason to believe an evil spirit visits you
than her; as I am convinced from the manner the
words flow from her mouth, iiflee She ha£ given uji
her pen, and the beautiful thannot that the Bible is
explained, for the glory of God, arid good of man­
kind, it cannot come from kn evil spirit; and it ii
impossible for a woman of herself tt> go on With the
explanations as she doth* as the Words Frequently
flow faster than I cab pen them. Now, Sir, What
must the world think of me, afoef having so warmly
espoused her cause, and asserted publicly my be­
lief that her writings came from the true arid living
God, if,, after perusing youf letter to the Rev.
Stanhope Bruce, I did n6t boldly ste^ forward to
clear her character, if she is itwocfcn* off ydur charges
against her, and derwirid you to dottle forward and
prove your assertions ? It is a duty IbWe to thy
God, to Joanna, myself, and all tKose1friends who
• - V
Digitized by Google
are fellow labourers with me in the Lord’s vineyard:
for a cause like tfiis cannot be. trifled w ith; and for
my own honour and credit, if you do not come for­
ward like a gentleman, to clear up every truth, I
shall compelyou to dp so. Now* Sir, you. talk of Joan­
na’s injuring your character. I must appeal to your!
own conscience, whether you. h%ve not. injured it
purself ? .You must be assured, if Joannas calling
is of God, which jasfrm ly, believe, as my own ex-"
istence, (and Joanna, sajth ?h$ isjure it,) that the
Lord will clear-her innocence, and support mo in
vindicating her cause. Now I. shall conclude my
letter with the words, ( 6 th chapter of Esther, 13*A
veisej that Hainan’s wife' and the wise, men ; said
unto him: “ If Mordecaj be of-the seed of the Jews,
hefore whom thou hast begun tQ fall, thou shalt not
prevail against him,, but shalt surely fall , before
him,” So if Joanna’s calling-be of God, and'your
honour begin to fall before her, I know you will
never prevail against her,;but wUl assuredly faU be­
fore her; because you have turned tbe grace of God
into a lie ,,by paying sshe i s l e d . by. an eviL spiriti
Now, Sir, I mu?t-intreat an answer to my letter im­
mediately, after you .receive this, or your silence
will prove you guilty, and then you must expect to
hear from me again : for in support o f innocence and
truth I fefir- no,manf As, a Christian, you have my
best wishes, that.thisjetter may awaken you to a
proper,sense of.your honour and duty .to your God,
Joanna Southcott, ancfyourself, and
I remain, Rev. Sir,
Your humble servant,
•Jane Tow srpr.
Please , to direct,to me at the Rev. Stanhope
Bruce’s, Inglesham, near Lechlade, Gloucestershire"
Digitized b
yGoogle
$ 4
i . - •
' •* •
•
TO THE REVEREND MR. PoifEROY, ' >
BODMIN, CORNWALL. ; , , ‘
j|
■No1
. 50, TitchfieldStreet, London', Hipt. 28, 1804.
Sin,
It will give me particular happiness if you will
attend '*to the subject of this letter, which is!purely
intended :to save your character from that disgrace ;1
and ,ruin, which must inevitably happen, if you :
|
any. longer persevere in treating with contempt the-
applications made to you, to restore to Joanna those ~
papers and letters, thht were placed in your hands, for r
j
some years past, as a sacred deposit^ that the truth si
should be made known of her most extraordinary vi- 3
sitation, without arty possibility of deception, and -j
which yourself believed at that time to be of the most
aweful and serious’nature; and you certainly urged her 3
then to have an immediate examination, to prevent ^
the rod of affliction from falling upori this land. a
This conduct of your’s to Joanna arose from those c
honest dictates placed in your heart, and did you so i
much honour as a real minister of Christ, for you,
as a clergyman, at this day to attend to the humble
request of an honest, simple woman, token, accord- :
i
ing to the pride of human society, they are so neg- j
lected and despised as'scarcely to be considered i
human beings. Now, Sir, by tohiat I know of Jo-^ \
anna’s grateful and feeling heart, she could not but
place entire confidence in you ; and she would have
parted with her life rather than have deceived you; .
and believing, as she did, that her visitation was s
from her blessed .Lord and Saviour, you appeared i
to be the man after her own mind, that would pre­
vent her from.beingjdeceived, .if there was any.pos-
sibility. A hdjn that, case you would have don*
honour to yourself as a man -to have stopped her
in her progrefs; and would have prevented thou; ,
1ETTERS TO AXD FROM
Digitized by Google
sands at this day from being deluded into error,
whose numbers are daily increasing, believing with
her, that her calling is from the Most High ; and
is also a powerful motive for her to be faithful to
the truth, neither to deceive either her God or
yourself, that she has placed confidence in. Now,
Sir, I cannot,-from these circumstances, but belie
that the contents of the writings placed in your *
hands, of future events ,taking place, must, by your
silence, have come to pass; but on the other nand
as you have thought proper to treat her and her
friends with the most silent .contempt, you are de­
parting from your duty to the world in suffering
deception to go on j you are departing from your
allegiance to your king, by bringing his church,
which forms a part of bis government, and the bi­
shops, into. contempt, at a time when we am
threatened with every calamity front a powerful arid
ambitious enemy. But, Sir, if her calling is from
Heaven, why deprive your king and country of the
light of divine wisdom, at a time when we stand,
most in need of divine protection ? If the cause »
the cause of God, which your silence proves it to
he, what line of conduct has Joanna to take, but
to be obedient to divine command in all things, and
follow the directions of the Spirit ? Therefore, Sir,
the laws of your king, and country are commanded
to be appealed to, according to humarl order; for
her God is the God of order ; and it is commanded
for you to be. compelled to be just, and the truth
to be brought, forth according to the English laws ;
and the advice of a- gentleman of the law has al- v
feady been, obtained, and I am thus for permitted
,to inform, you, that you will be compelled by a
precept from, tire Court of King’s Bench, or some
ether court of justice,, to produce all papers, and
letters deposited with you in trust, and under yorir
$»n promise, as ajudge of the truth for her, in tht
/ THEEEV. MR. EOMERQY, 65
Digitized by Google
• hour of confidence; and if you do not, you wilt
be obliged to declare, the whole truth upon oath,
why you'have refused ; and give satisfactory an­
swers to all questions that shall be demanded of you;
anjd inform the court of what the papers contained.
Happy shall I feel if I am an instrument to prevent
you from disgrace and ruin; and I hope youwill
consider this letter as the letter of a friend; fori
know it is said to Joanna, that the Lord will not
permit you longer to contend against his w ill; for
you once believed it to be of divine authority, and
encouraged her to proceed, adding these words,
“ you will wait Until you bring the sword, the
plague, and the famine upon us.’4 Now, Sir, these
words are your own words to Joanna, and are pub­
lished to the world at large; which words you
would not have used,, neither would you have had
any interview with her at all, if you had not had
Some belief, at that time, of the truth of her visita­
tion. You also added, you would meet with twelve
persons; and advised her not to wait until the sword
came upon us. Wfyy, Rev. Sir, do you continue
silent ? Why will you suffer people ta have the
least cause to suspect you to be a traitor to your
king and country ? W hy not invite the church to
come forth, and vindicate the cause of God and
man ? I have already told you the church forms
a part of our government,.and you are one of its
ministers ; your opinion, as a minister, ought to be
of Consequence; and those gentlemen, whom you used
to meet at the coffee-house at Exeter,'ought to
have some decency towards you.' It was not for.
them to teach you what to believe, or whom you
chose to converse with upon the subject of pro­
phecy. They treated you with impertinence an,d
disrespect; and, mark my words, these very men
may be the first to condemn you, when they read
in the1public 'papers a true statement of wkat h^a
6 6 LETTER S TO AND FRO#
Digitized by Google
{Hissed in' a court of law, These very men will ex­
claim against you for being guilty of a breach of
trust. These supercilious cotfee-house politicians
will be the first to cry out against you ; so that
your character will be trampled on by those, whose
opinion, or rather ridicule, you have been such a
slave to, as to make you betray the confidence of an
innocent woman, who treated you with ever)' re­
spect, and placed in you the most implicit faith,
You believed her to be a good womari, and an inno­
cent woman; now, you are trying to make her ap­
pear an impostor. But every one’s character in a
court of justice is of some value ; and your conduct
has forced her to take this step. The publicity of
the proceedings in a court of justice must justify her
conduct; and her duty to her God is of too sacred
a nature to make her disobedient to his commands.
Had you, Sir, the fortitude to treat with con-.
tempt the mockery and ridicule of ignorant peo­
ple, whether in a. coffee-house or at any other place,
and considered your dignity, as a minister, in its
proper point of view, you would not have suspected
Joanna to have been led by the Devil, after having
encouraged her to proceed. You mqst* remem­
ber, when myself and six other gentlemen first
came to . Exeter, that the three clergymen
waited on you with Joanna : the Rev. Mess. Bruce*
Foley, and Webster. As soon as you heard that, the
letter you had written to the printer in London, in
which.you forbid him to print, or make public your
name in Joanna’s Book of Letters, was at,Exeter, you
particularly desired that very 'h /h r to be returned
to you again. Now, Sir, as soon as your wish was
made known to me, I gave it up ; and it was con­
veyed safely into your hands. I would ask you, Sir,
in the name of justice or honour, by what rigin can
you withhold the letters and papers that Joanna plac­
edin your hands, which she had copied at a great
expeftee to herself, by your request, when she could
YHfi REV. MR. POMEROY. <?7
Digitized by Google
ill afford the money, even if you were under no ttfc*
press condition to return them to her when you was
called upon ? As a' gentleman you ought to
comply, as I did, when your request was' made
known to me. I was not bound to retqrn you that
Jptter. It could be no breach of trust oh my part, if
I had refused your request; my conscience would
not have been wounded by such refusal: I was not
in the situation you have been placed in, with an in-,
nocent woman. Your breach of trust with Joanna,
Ho one can justify; and all persons who have' read
the account of this transaction condemn you r whe­
ther they believe in her visitation or not, all alike
Condemn you. And when the proceedings of a court
bfjustice are laid before the public, what can the
world say of your- character as, a man, your
duty as a clergyman of the church of England ?
Your being afraid of the slander and mockery of
fools, in order to have the praise of fools, must sink
you very low indeed! You ought to be their
spiritual teacher, and to have resisted their imperti--
bent mockery. The character of a minister of the
gospel they ought to have held in respect. Now
view the conduct of Joanna towards you and the
Clergy on the one hand, and view the conduct of
these men, whose praise you fearto lose on the other?
then examine your own heart and mind to find out
who is your true and faithful friend. I need say ho
more, 'the different pictures are before your view,'
Joanna has a duty to perform to herself; she has a
pacred duty to perform to her God, and the truth
the cannot give up ; and when hertrial comes there
must be nothing withheld. „
I am, Rev. Sir,
Your sincere friend and wellwisher,
W il l ia m Sharp,
_P. S, ft is not too late for you to withdraw yous-
|e]£ from your present unfortunate dilemma; you
68 i,ETTERS TO AND PROiSP s
Digitized by Google
S ftS ftBV. M il. POM EftOY. 6 $
may now pursue a noble line of conduct: throw off
your chains of worldly applause, restore to Joann*
her papers, and unite with her friends, with an in­
dependent mind, only to search out what is true.
MR. POMEROY’S ANSWER.
Sib, - - ' Oct. 4, J804.
Though I have neither time nor inclination to
answer the many strange letters I have received re­
specting J. Southcott, that you may not sup­
pose me capable of treating any gentlemans letter*
with contempt, I take the first opportunity ,to assure
you, that, (except one just received,) I have no
letters, or writings whatever of, or belonging to, that
deluded, ungrateful woman. She herself knew this
near two years since, so that to charge me with
having any of her papers now, is to deceive the
public, and wantonly to traduce my character. As
to the menacing part of your letter I wish to observe,
that though it is impossible to produce what I am
not possessed of, I shall be ready at all times, and,
in all places, to bear my testimony to what appears
to me to be the truth; to vindicate my aspersed
and injured character, and to maintain my opinion,
with respect to the farrago of sense and nonsense, of
scripture and blasphemy, contained in her pretended
prophecies that such incoherent matter never
could proceed horn a sound mind, or from the pure
spirit of wisdom. You are pleased to signyourself
my sincere friend and wellwisher ; prove the sincerity
of your profession, by exerting your influence to1
restrain. herr and her printer, from the malevolent
employment of exposing and vilifying my name, in
such an unprecedented, and illegal manner, in di­
rect violation of her own solemn promise; and by
Digitized by
70 BETTERS TO ANB 1ROM
prevailing on her to desist from publishing, with
such misrepresentation and shocking perversion, the
confidential conversation, which at the earnest request
c f her friends, and out of 'compassion to .the disorder­
ed state of her mind, I was induced to permit her
to hold with me. In short, Sir, if you are possess­
ed of a Christian spirit, dr even of humanity ; .if you
have airy regard for her, or her cause, yon. will im­
mediately exert your interest and authority to pre­
vent this unhappy woman, from disgracing her Own
pretensions, and violating the laws of God and man,
by thus continuing to add to the irreparable, and
inconceivable injuries she has already done to the
respectable ,name, and sacred character of
Sir,- yours, &c.
J. P.
P. S.
letters.
You will excuse my answering any future'
TO THE REVEREND J. POMEROY,
BODMIN, CORNWALL.
&e v . Sir ,
The Lord hath. commanded me, once more, td
write unto you from the words of Samuel, the fol­
lowing texts: First Book of Samuel, 15th chapter,
beginning at the I'lnd verse, to the end, “ And
Samuel said, Hath the Lord as great delight in burnt
offerings and sacrifices, as in obeying the voice of
the. Lord ? Behold, to obey is better than sacri­
fice, and to hearken than the fat of rams. For re­
bellion is as the sin of witchcraft, and stubbornness
is as iniquityN
and idolatry. Because thou hast re­
jected the word of the Lord, he hath also rejected
thee from being king.. And Saul said unto' Samuel,
I have sinned: for I have transgressed the com-
Digitized by
,yGoogle
mandment of the .Lord and thy words; because I
feared the people and obeyed their voice. Now,
therefore, I pray thee, pardon my sin, and turn
again with me, that I may worship the Lord. And
Samuel said unto Saul, I will not return with thee :
for thou hast rejected the word of the Lord, and
the Lord hath rejected thee from being king over
Israel. And as Samuel turned about to go away,
he laid hold upon the skirt of his mantle, and it
rent. ' And Samuel said unto him, the Lord hath
rent the kingdom of Israel from thee this day, and
hath given it to a neighbour of thine, that is
better than thou. And also the strength of Israel
will not lie nor repent: for he is not a man that he
should 'repent. Then he said. I have sinned: yet
honour 'me now I pray thee, before the elders of
my people, and before Israel, and turn again with
me, that I may worship the Lord thy God. So
Samuel turned again after Saul; and Saul worshipped
the Lord. Then said Samuel, bring ye hither to
j me Agag the king of the Amalekites. And Agag
came unto him delicately. And Agag said, Surely
i the bitterness of death is past. And Samuel said,
I as thy sword hath made women childless, so shall
i thy mother be childless among women. And Sa-
j muel hewed Agag in pieces before ''the Lord in
| Gilgal. Then Samuel went to Ramah; and Saul
| went up to his house to Gibeah of Saul. And Sa­
muel came no more to see Saul until the day of his
death : nevertheless Samuel mourned for Saul: and
the Lord repented that he had made Saul king over
Israel.” And now I shall send you the words of the
Lord given to Joanna and sent to me, as I had sent
her a copy of your letter to me, which she submitted
to the wisdom of the Lord; who graciously speaks
toher, the same as he did in times of old, like one man
speaking to another. But whether you believe this
ornot, the consequence is to yourself. I believe it,
TH E REV. SIR. POMEROY. 7V
Digitized by Google
and the whole world will be made to believe it, I Rift
afraid, to their sorrow; and, perhaps, the pride dis-,
played in your letter, so enslaves your understanding,
that you can neither believe it, nor the true sense of
your Bible. Here are the words of the Lord to your
hlr.sphemy against him, and your abuse to Joanna:
“ Now let the words of Samuel be sent to Pome­
roy, in my N a m b , the living G o d , and thus shalt
thou say unto him, The anger of the Lord is
kindled against you, because you have disgraced
the living G o d , and mocked and despised all his
words; therefore, they that honour m e, I will ho­
nour; and they that despise mb, shall be lightly
esteemed; for rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft,
and stubbornness is as iniquity and idolatry; for
you have rejected the words of the Lord, to.giye
unto him the honour due unto his Name; therefore
I have rejected to give honour to h im ; and. he
shall know it is 1 the Lord have spoken.by thee.
And now I will speak to him, in his own words. He,
said the Lord had no work to do, but he. could find
instruments to work b y ; now I have found instra-
.ments to work by, for thee to carry on my work;
and as he saith, that work is blasphemy, a farrago of
.nonsense from the Devil, let him find instruments.
- to work by to clear himself and come against the©.
I have chosen for myself twenty-four, to be judges
for thee; and let him clioose twenty-four to come
against .thee; then if they can prove It to be a
farrago of nonsense and the works of the- Devil, #
thou shalt publicly ask his pardon in every papei^
and the books, that are against fiim shall be totally
destroyed. So let him see I shall dp him justice:;
and now with justice let him act. He is at liberty
to gain ministers, and appeal to the- bishops to gain
them for him,, or he is at liberty to gain other men,
but he cannot. h.ave one of those ministers that•thet
fr'mted letters were sent to, who returned them hack ;
.but of all others fie may choose for himself twenty.-
Digitized by ^
•ft LETTERS TO AND FROM
I
three to come with him ; for I do not desire him
to come alone, so many men against one; but let
there be an equal number. But as he hath disgraced
me the l iv in g G od, aftd betrayed the trust I told
thee to put in him, and who burnt the truth that
was in his hands, he must appear to answer for
himself in November. If he can be ready by the
middle of November, thee and thy friends shall
be ready also to meet him in London, to have the
cause fairly tried for sev en d a y s. Then if he and,
his friends can join'together to prove it a farrago of
nonsense coming from the Devil, thou and thy
friends shall fa ll befot e him; then let him say, he
hath put a stop to the works of the D evil; but if
he finds it like the days of Pentecost, and they are
all convinced the Calling is of God, then let him
say, “ blessed be the rod of the Lord! for how fatal
must my end have been, if I had gone on in perse­
cution against the Lord, and doing despite unto
his Spirit! I know I could never appear before him;
for if I tremble to meet a woman I have injured,
how shall I tremble to meet a G od whom I have
mocked and despised, and set at naught all. his
councils, counting the words of the Lord unholy
things ?” For he must know if thy calling be of God,
it is he that is committing the blasphemy that can­
not be forgiven without sincere repentance %there­
fore he must appear to answer for himself, lest t
destroy him and his house; neither shall he put it
off to a future day ; for in November, this very year,
shall every thing be tried and proved; so let these
.words be sent unto^ him in print with the other
letters; and he must send a satisfactory answer im­
mediately to Sharp.” '%
These are the words of the Lord to Joanna South­
ron, given this day, Thursday, 1 1th of October,
18Q4, taken from her mouth by me,
Witness,
K
SHE REV. MR. POMEROY,
J ane T ow nley.
Ann U nderw ood.
' Digitized by Google
DETTBRS T® AND FRONt
' N ow , Sir, after sending you these awful word's,
no person can, from reading them, say, they are from
. any other authority than the pure s p ir it op w is ­
dom. In thiB proposal there is nothing but justice
and equity : when the truth appears, the impostor is
no more. And I should not presume to add a word
from myself, but my character stands condemned
!by you, as well as all Joanna's friends, for having
encouraged blasphemy and lies, unless you suppose
us to he madmen or fools, and you have the ex­
clusive possession of a sound mind. You desire me
to prove the sincerity of my profession in signing
myself your sincere friend, and wellwisher; which
I have now faithfully done, not only in my endea­
vours to prevent you any further from degrading
yourself, but begging of you to accept the gracious
'invitation; by coniing forth with your friends to
meet Joanna's friends. If you refuse, jou’ stand
condemned, as you condemn us by your letter, in
casting on us the reproach of supporting-Joanna in
lies, and encouraging her to be an impostor. You say
your Own name is both respectable and sacred ; 1 have
a name also, which I will not disgrace ; I have a cha­
racter to lose, which I am not to be cheated out of
by any arts that you may contrive by vain boasting •
words. That deceit and imposition may be exposed,
your letter and others now are before the public;
because you refuse the usual correspondence;and the
sincere conduct o f Joahfta’s friends will appear to the
public, in consequence of your refusal; who are all
condemned without trial. You have broughtjor/r*
respectable and Sacred 'character into that situation
from which you shall not retreat; for yon declare, un­
der your own hand, and here are your very words, / ‘ I
shall be ready at all times; and in all places, to bear
my testimony to what appears to me to be true.”
N ow , Sir, instead of your letter being burnt, you
have produced the Opportunity of seeing yourself in
Digitized by Google
f rint^ that we may all come to the standard of truth.
.'hall for the present say no more, as the rest of
Joanna’s friends, who perfectly understand the va­
lue of character, better than yourself, will vindicate
their injured honour, and they will not be trifled
with to pass over your conduct with impunity. I
aow expect your answer to this just proposal, and
you will well cons'der, if you act in opposition tq
divine authority, your family has more claim to your
compassion and tenderness, than your pride. These*
Sir, are the concluding words of your sincere friend^
and wellwisher, '
W il l ia m Sh a r p . 1
P. 5, I particularly desire you to attend to the
former part of this letter, as fir as the name of Jo­
anna’s two faithful friends, for they are the words of
the Lord to you. Your answer must be sent to me.
TH E EEV. MB. POMEROY, 75
TO THE REV. MR. POMEROY, BODMIN,
CORNWALL.
rev. sin, London, Oct. 17, 1804. '
Your letters, dated the 1st and the 4th instant,
sent to the Rev. Stanhope Bruce, and to Mr. Sharp*
in conseqence o f their extraordinary contents were
submitted to our consideration ; therefore it is pre­
sumed that you will not be greatly surprised at receiv­
ing this address upon the subject; and as we are
plain men, aspiring to no other pretensions than a
zeal for honesty and truth, we trust that the simpli­
city and openness with which our animadversions
may be made will have 9ome effect with you.
It appears to ils that the general tenor of your two
letters is, in the first place, to avoid what might
havethe- semblance ofa candid answer to the appeals
K 3
Digitized by Google
made by those gentleman to you, aswell as to with­
hold every information; then to make your letters
-serve as vehicles of abuse against Joanna Soutlicott £
and ultimately to obtain the applause of the world,
by charging her friends with wilful dishonesty, and
with folly, in supporting her cause.
From the style in which you have written, we feel
ho kind of disapppintment, by seeing that you de­
signedly avoid to disclose truths that must be well
known to you ; but that you should have recourse
to a quibbling evasion, in order to put on the ap­
pearance of candor and openness, we conceive to be
very unsuitable to your sacred character. W e need
not point out to you what is alluded to ; hut to the
public, who cannot be supposed to be acquainted
with your conduct to Joanna, we shall explain
wherein you amused yourself in trying to find the
dfepth ‘of our folly. fCnowing that Joanna had evi­
dence of your saying in 1802, that you had burnt
her papers, you now come to assure us, that you
“ haye no letters, or writings whatsoever of, or be­
longing to, that deluded, ungrateful 'woman. She
herself,” you also say, “ knew this near two years
since ; so that to charge you with having any of her
papers now, is to deceive the public.” .Thus it is
intended it should be understood, by the ambiguity
of. your expressions, that you never had any of her
papers in your possession. And, you also insinuate
thatyou know nothing of her, but from the insulting
letters you have received ; yet you contradict this
where you charge her with misrepresenting “ the com
Jidential conversation, which ,at the ^earnest request
of her friends, and out of compassion to the disorder­
ed state ofiher mind, you were induced topermit her
to hold with .you.” You then proceed by calling it
virulent abuse on her part for claiming.her property;
and which you artfully say is impossible for you to
do ; but .you refrain, probably out of tenderness
7<5 LETTER S TO AND FROM
Digitized by Google
TH E B E T. MB. POMBBOY. 77
of conscience* from saying that it never was possible,
or bow that possibility has been put out of your
power.
- What gratification it may have been to you, Sir,
we know not, but your calumny against Joanna
seems most cordially studied to wound her feelings.
You intended, no doubt, that it should operate se­
veral ways, when you insinuate that she is deranged
in mind; but your principal aim, by such an impu­
tation, is to ridicule her friends for want of discern­
ment, in not having made a similar discovery with
yourself; and then to implicate them in a criminal
collusion, for the purpose of deceiving others more
ignorant than themselves.
Now, Sir, we think it highly incumbent upon you
to reconsider the charges, which you have made ;
and also your conduct in various, ways towards Jo­
anna : for, be assured, they are o f two serious a
nature to be passed over by us in silence.
In the first place, what must you judge our prin­
ciples to be, to support a cause as of divine origin,
that we should abandon it, because you think it con­
venient to assert that Joanna has uttered falsehoods,
and that she -is an impostor ; and in the same breath,
with very little consistency, that she is deranged in
mind ? Then we must be the mo^t arrant fools in­
deed, to believe your malicious report, before you
come,forward to prove your assertions. For thus wq
should do violence to our own understanding, By
condemning the innocent, or clearing the guilty,
without evidence. And again, how are we to know
whether any falsehood can be attributed to Joanna,
if we follow your advice ? and, should we either
acquit our consciences, or have any pretensions to
honesty, by so doing ? No, Sir; our reason must
inform us, that for our own honour we can in 'np
wise give up the cause in such a manner ; neither
•wiil we relinquish you, Sir, until we have cleared
our honour from' the injurious aspersions contained
Digitized by t ^ o o Q l e
Tflf £fZ<TTm* ANB P'ROM.
in your letters. And we shall further observe Id
you, that if we did.not believe Joanna’s calling to
be from the Supreme Being, we must certainly be
guilty of the most attrocieus crime, and your slan­
derous charges must then be well-founded ; but, an
this is our. finn belief, we are compelled to act as
we are commanded; whether it be to print any thing
Concerning your mpst decettful conduct to her ; or
to be under the necessity of noticing your maii-,
cious, though impotent, insinuations against her
friends.
To come more immediately to the purpose of our
addressing you* we say, that your accusations, if they
are false, must reflect great dishonour upon your
sacred character; but if trire, they throw disgrace
upon Joanna* and upon her friends* . W e therefore
solemnly call upon you, Sir, to clear up your ho­
nour, if it be in your power, by proving the asser­
tions and insinuations, which you have made. For
We are now determined to investigate the matter
thoroughly; and to had out whether the fault is to
be attributed to Joanna, or to yourself; because
that one or the other must clearly be guilty o f false­
hood. W e have characters to support, Sir, as well
as you, and hitherto -unimpeached; therefore we
will not? dishonour our pretensions, by suporting
falsehood* W e have done nothing artfully, sox
deceitfully; neither will we consent thereto, nor
eohceal .it where we find it done. This cause, in
which we are engaged, we consider as a cause of
honour; and in -it Wefcnow of neither, fraud nor coif
lusion. The object of our pursuit is truth vand the
truth we are determined to stand by -; and to ex­
pose wlroever makes, lies, his refuge. W e contend
for the honour of Joanna, and of ourselves; and that
- qo folly may fee laid to our charge, through auy
base and interested motives, or through prejudice;
we contend for justice, and for truth; we contend
Digitized by Google
Ibftlie glory of God, and for the good of mankind.
You are a Christian minister, and to our astonish?*
ment, you contend that pn your hare'word, and
without examination, we should desert a much in­
jured woman, who is prepared with evidence to
prove that you withhold herjust right from her; and
to prove thajt you have villified her good name : and
what is still more awful, you contend that the verity
of her mission shpuld npt be examined into, so that
it may not be jrefpted if unfounded, nor esta­
blished if it be true. Thus on the one hand, you
uphold a continuance of delusion among thousands
pfsimple and well-meaning people ; or on the other,
that the author of sin may triumph in his fall, in the
ruin and misery of millions of human beings.
Again: we call upon you, reverend Sir, to take
a retrospect' o f your conduct. W e have what we
judge to be indubitable evidence of your having ex­
pressed very different sentiments respecting the
mission of Joanna, cpmpared with the artful, oppro­
brious, and insulting tenor of ypiir late letters. You
may imagine, Sir, that they may be well suited to
screen you from the ridicule of the world, by ap­
pearing to do away the imputation of your having
been formerly more attentive to the pretensions of one
whom you now Call a poor, deluded woman. But
it may be worthy of your consideration, that the
cause at issdei between you and- Joanna claims a dif­
ferent mode of conduct; for the only way remaining
for you to act honourably is'to bring your charges
forward; and we are rfeady to meet you to examine
them, and to exhibit our evidence upon the subject.
1 To conclude : you must be sufficiently aware, rev­
erend Sir, that at all times, when- any great good
| has been designed for mankind, .the■evil power lias
never failed to gain over human agents to counteract
it; and now that universal blessings are promised,
\ and the destruction of that power threatened, that
THE REV." MR. ROMEROV. f 9
Digitized by v ^ o o Q i e
SO X,ET*KBfi * 0 A »fc P B O tt
he will make moip than usual exertions to averthis
destiny ; let us all therefore watch and pray,"* that
he may not be able to uphold his reign by means of
any respectable name and sacred character * !
(Signed,)
R ev. Stanhope Bruce.
R ev . T , P. F oley.
R ev . T ho. W ebster.
G eorge T urner.
W . J o w e tt .
W il lia m H arwood.
,E . Ca rpen ter.
J ohn W ilso n .
P eter M ori son.
W il l ia m R. W eth er ell.
W il l ia m Sh a rp.
C harles T aylor.
W il lia m Be l k ,
C harles A bbott.
J ohn T o r in .
T homas St eph e n s.
J ohn Y oung.
J ohn M orris. .
R ichard L aw .
G eorge Stocks>
E lias J ameson F ie l d . ’
W il l ia m L ayton W inter.
/ • W il lia m O w en.
J ohn H ows.
• *ftiereader is referred to Mr, Pomeroy's letters* where theas-1
perity, whichteems to pervade thisaddress willbefoundhrhis oytK
words.
Digitized by
;Google
fVe here subjoin an extract of a letter /torn the Rev.
T . P. Foley, to shew that our friends in the country
agree in our sentiments > and to. sanction the inser­
tion of his name with ours, agreeably to his desire.
I must confess that Mr. Pomeroy’s letter, pro­
voked my indignation in a great degree. Can he
foolishly suppose that we have no characters or ho­
nour to lose as well as himself ? I trust that we shall
shew him that ours are as dear to us, as his ow n;
and that we shall contend for them to the last mo- ‘
ment o f our existence.— He calls Joanna a deluded
woman; and that she is deranged, or led by an evil
spirit. If Mr. Pomeroy would only weigh the mat­
ter coolly and honestly, he might think, as so many
persons o f strong understanding and clear judgment
do believe in the divine mission of Joann^ Siouth-
cott, that he himself might be deluded, and not
her; and if he were to try the spirits by the scrip­
ture rule, he would have some solid reasons t» be.-
lieve that the spirit which guides him wa6 an evil
spirit, as truth, honour, nor honesty, guides his own
proceeding ; and he would see that the spirit which
guujks Joanna is full of truth, honour, and wisdom.
Were he to act in this fair way, there would be no
difficulty in drawing the right inference; and he
would be put in the right road to establish his own
peac$ and happiness,’’
THE RET.MK. POMEROY.
$
lb
Digitized by G o o g le
TO AHB * B * f
Here we shall also add a part of a letter from Miss
' 't'ownley to Mr, Sharpy containing some remarks
by Joanna, and words of the Jrtfdy respecting the
conduct of Mr. Pomeroy,
Joanna says, that Mr. Pomeroy’s conduct has
made her quite sick aud bad, which hits opened all
her Wounds afresh. Hjs subtle arts, tw o yeafs
-agone, appear more lively before her than ever-} “
for
ishe saith, he acted like'a fnatti that ’
would -dip &
razor in oil . to <cut her throat} first to come with
m ch subtle: arts, pleading it would be hi sown de­
struction^ ifsfae'would not -sign., ‘that he had haid it
iwaa the \Deoil that told h$r to put Ms ti&tite'Mprwt j
and as soOn as he.bad drawn her hr to hee-him from
the ridicule o f the world, then he burnt ;a|l her.let­
ters, wheicin the trach'of- her prophecies -had sirieid
-fdr so yearsi; because the truth Should hot
tappear for hee. And how he is '-going on WMi -ffcore
-aubtfe auts, to be her complete murderer & h e tBftu
-Joanna was again highly ptoVoked When #he’!4to
lin the newspaper what' was said of sSphft,- which
-•she prophesied erf in January, 17-§7<* arid put-!k lih
;Mr. Pomeroy’s hands, with many •-other ptopheekfc,
that she did not then keep the eopyof, U shehad it.
<|n her own hand-writing, and in MiSs <Fatthy'Tay-
i<i>rYhand also; as Joanna' did hot then sUSpect he
iwouldiact so deceitfully; ’hlSdtbe Lord cOiicet&ed fit
from her, but charged her to have Wlthdss^OOa-
cerning them. And now the Lord will call him
into judgment, to shew him that such artful.and de­
ceitful dealings are never consistent with the Spirit
o f Qod. The words of the Lord now broke in upon
Joanna. <41 shall answer thee of what thou sayest of
Pomeroy. Pomeroy shdll know, that such artful
apd deceitful dealings aa he hath dealt with to thee,
Digitized by Google
tt'h 'h isy , Mb . POMHHOfi &&
feeder came from my Spirit ; therefore he shall
kppw hath disgraced his God, to say that he is
led by my Spirit to act with arts, deceit, and lies ;
and to Say thou art led by the Devil, that dost act
with every1 true, just, and upright dealings towards
God and towards man. Let them see thy upright
dealings, to put the prophecies in his hands, when
thou knewest, if they were'not of God they would
not come to p a ss.; then he would have had it in his
power to convince thee thy calling was false. So
all th£ world must see, that thou hast acted with
honour, and with honesty towards God and toward*
matt; for thou eouldest not deceive the world, if
the prophedes that- thou didst put in his hands h a d
not come tPuo, Now when he published it was from'
the Devil, he ought to have acted with justness and
honesty, to have brought' forward the letters and
piweff his aisssrtkmi But if he could not prove it
by the letter*, how dare he1 affirm it, and bum the
letters, that 'shewed the truth,' from whence thy
writings came ? So let not Pomeroy say, he thaf
acteth with arts and deceit is led by the Spiritof
the Lord ♦ and they who act with every upright
dealing, in perfect obedience to their God. are
led by the Devil 1 So by the different principles;
let men judge o f' the Spirit. I am thy judge, and
witness against him, that thou canst come forward
with truth and with innocence ; -but’ he cannot;
therefore he shall find be is deceived, and is deceive
ing, and the truth i$ not in him, to say thy writingj
are from the D evil; for they are no more from the
Devil, than thou hast printed lies against him, but
hast p«t the truth in- print, as I commanded thee :
Md I shall be a 9wife witness against hiin in his trial;
that thy writings a»e from M E the LIVING GOD,
an dnotfcom th e w//, as ho said.7
L a
Digitized by Google
84 Z'fcTTBRS TO AND RROJC'
The following Letter from the Rev. T. P. Foley 19-
Mr. Pomeroy, being ordered to be printed, is in­
serted here, at it came too late to appear in order
'among the other Letters.
TO THE REVEREND MR. POMEROY,
" BODMIN, CORNWALL.
Old Sviuford, Worcestershire, Oet. 16th, 1804.
R e v . Sir, , . i
• I niust confess I read a copy of yourletter, either
to Mr. Bruce or to Mr: Sharp, with the keenest
•sorrow and indignation; I was grieved most bit­
terly, to see a clergyman of such respectable abi­
lity and general character as yourself, so far lost to
every honourable and religious feeling as to declare
positively, with a view- to impose upon and deceive
tire friends of Joanna, that you have n©'letters, or
writings whatever, belonging to Mrs. Southcott,
whom you are pleased to term “ a deluded and un­
grateful woman, and that she herself knew that you
had no letters or writings of hers near two years
since, so that to charge you with having any of her
papers now was to deceive the public, and wantonly to
traduce your character.'' But will you permit me,
Sir, to ask you, what is become of those letters,
which she sent you, from 1796 to 1801, and those
writings of “ three sheets of paper,” that were put
in your hands in 179 7s upon ypur promising, faith­
fully and honourably, to bring-them forward, either
for or against her, when they should be demanded)
Can you, with a safe conscience, lay your hand upon
your heart and say this is an untruth ? I do not be­
lieve you dare do i t : for I can assure you, we have
full and decided proof tb the truth of this statement.
A nd wr shall be happy, to meet you, in the face of
an assembled world, and yvdl try the cause with you,
Digitized by Google
THE BEY.-MK. POMBBOT/ 85
■Whether, we Bre supporting Lies and an Impostor?
or, whether your, accusation* can be established.
Allow me to tell you, that our honour and charac­
ters are as dear to us, as yours can possibly be to
y o u ; and we will contend for them (the Lord giving
Us strength) to the last moment of our existence; nor
are we afraid to meet yourself and any twenty-three
m en in this kingdom (except those who have re­
ceived letters from. Miss Townley, and have returned
them back, or destroyed them ; for with such, we
have smorn unto the Lord, that we>
will dot meet) to
decide this serious and most momentous cause!; for’
it is either the cause of the Most High God ; or, it
js the cause of'error and delusion—and therefore.it
is high time to be decided .
which. For if it should
prove to be a delusion, thousands and. tens, of thou­
sands will be ruined-riand how ican-jthe bishops and
clergy, who- have been appealed to,:answer for
themselves to the Supreme Ruhr of the Universe,
for not having diligently ,searched into this cause, .
which I knoja to, bp one of Ithe. first importance that,
ever came before mankind, and second only to that,
of our -blessed Lord/ when he was tried at Pilate’s
bar. , What twill be the astonishment and .confu­
sion of the! Shepherds of Christ’s Flock, when they
have demonstrative proofs, that this is his blessed
and glorious wofix ? W ill they not, think you,
be almost ready ta call .upon the mountains and the
rocks, to fall on them, and to hide them from the
Face o f H i m that sitteth upon the- Throne, and
from the wrathof the L a.m b ?
. For they will find
the day of his- w*ath is came: and who will be
able to stand }. I tremble for their situation, as.well
as, your own ; and Id o most faithfully believe, that
without a hasty and hearty repentance, that many
will ere long be swept away, by the just judgments
of the Lord. I sineefely hope, and pray,- that.your-
eyes may be opened,, before it is too late, that you
Digitized*by Google
ed 1I*T*»* TO. AH» MOM '
fnay be S4*sible of the evil One, who hag deceived
you, and not Joanna; and that yon may turn unto
the Lord with deep- contrition, and be forgiven—
and come forth boldly in this glorious, and divine
work of the Lord ; and I shall hail you with muck
joy, as a brother snatched from the burning.— T he
proposal that is now made to you, is so-fait andju st,
that you cannot possibly shun accepting it, without
you will sit down with all possible infamy upon- yout'
own head. W e shall then take it for granted, as
you yourself have declared, that you will Up ready
at all times, and in all places, to bear testimony to-
what appears to you to be truth, and to vindicate
your aspersed and injured ch a ra cterth a t you will
come forth next m onth, with twenty-three proper
persons to meet the twenty-four that we believe to-
be chosen by the Lord ; and then, after seven days
Trial, it will be proved to the world, whether you
have acted with truth, honour, and justice $ or, whe­
ther we (the friends of Mrs. Southcott) have acted
with- truth, honour, and justice, to- the world, for
the glory of God, and the good of mankind— and
let the final result stamp our character, either with
infamy, or crown us with the palms of. victory.—
-?
Cannot pass over the following charge without a few
words *
. you say Mrs. Southcott “ is a deluded and
an ungrateful woman."'—I have had the happiness of
knowing her for near three years, and I have lived
great part t f that time in the same house with her,
and I do declare, that I never met with any person
in my life of a clearer and more sound understand­
ing, than what she possesses. And as- to her ingraft*
tude, I do not think there is that being now m ex­
istence, who deserves less the accusation than she
does; for in all her transactions, which I have wit­
nessed, piety, charity, honesty, and the strictest
honour, have ever borne the supreme ’
and only sway,
Digitized by Google
?H S JR*Vf ,MJU IXIJJUUUXY. ' 87
and therefore, you must Allowme tp hetreve, that
you are deceived in your accusations; and so I am
persuaded•you will find it* when all matters come
to be fairly and honestly investigated.—-1 shall con­
clude with heartily wishing yoti may weigh every
thing with candid 'and impartial ju sticea n d that
honour and truth may hereafter guide you : for we
know, ‘‘ The Iafj>K
Srf Truth Shall be ertabdished for
ever.” la m ,
fieweneadSir, • "
Your sincere aadfaitibffal Brother
‘ in the Lord’s vineyard,
TU0»S, P. FoLEY.
Monday Evening, 0 ( t t. 15, 1804.'
Thefollowing is an answer to a person "iplio has been
reading Joanna's "Books, and who .having come to
thepart where Joanna is mentioned as.4he Bride in
the Revelations, was afraid to read,any further.
Joanna sent her a ktter 'to explain this, so as to re -
move her fstrtf. In that letter 'arguments were
broughtforth to shew, that it wastiotmore wonder­
fulfor the hard lto visit ihe Virgin Maty to bear a
Son,, than to viiit a Woman fry His S pirit to
claim the Pbomjse made in the Fall io bruise the
Serpent's head,, , , . •
Now, Joanna, -f shall answer thee,.
Thy letter here let-men see clear,
What arguments thou ’st us’d}
Bdt 1 36 tell thee 1 was here-w
And perfect like the Jews
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
Do men begin in every thing,
• For all they judge too high;
And so MY mother they condemn’d,
And judg’d that she did lie ;
And me the same they did condemn, ,
That I too highly spoke.
- Now this hath been the way of men—
But can the Gentiles mock
My Spir it strong td thee it’s come,
If I did come before ?
The wondrous manner that is nam’d,
The Holy Ghost appear,
To her did come, it must be known,
Let men judge as they- will;
Thoughfrom that truth are many gone^>
The Ari a n s ’ hearts I’ll chill,
Who tbi$ deny; then 1 must lie*
And like mankind appgar ;
But IFthey say I came that way,
The Holy Ghost was there;
Then can men blame, or will they shame,
If at tirrst I stoop’d so low, *
Of the mean Virgin to be born,
And strongly visit so ?
My mother here for to appear*
Should I call her at first,
Though.surely I her maker were
When the Creation burst?
In u n ity ,*allflesh must see
TheJ^ATtfER, and the Son,
That so in Heaven they do agree
In heart and mind as one.
The mystery there no man can clear*
The Unity in Heaven—
88 AKSWM TO SCRUPLE*
Digitized by Google
And when the Holy Ghost appear'd
It in one mind was given.
So I was born, it must be known,
From her I did appear;
And though the Maker of you all,
I call’d her Mother there.
Then Mother see if she must be,
The Mother plac’d by H eaven,
Ifyou weigh deep the T r in it y ,
The Woman must be given;
To free you all from Adam’s Fall,
Her Promise she must claim.
I made a M other for you all,
And called so to Man;
Then know, the Bride must be applied,
That I have known so here,
To claim the Promise as I’ve said,
And then the perfect H eir
She makes of mb, all flesh shall see,
A M other then for all !
So i ’ll appear the Son and He ir ,
And now my Brethren call
For to go on as I began,
The W oman’s truth support,
And say our Mother now is come;
For who her call can hurt ?
When Christ before did so appear,
She’s honour’d by the Son ;
Then sure the Bride can’t be denied
To be receiv’d by Man.
So now see plain, ye sons of men,
The Wisdom in the Fall.—
You know when I did here come down
I did her Mother call;
M
CONCERNING THE BRIDE.
Digitized by Google
But how could she a Mother be,
If every thing stop there ?
To bring such fatal griefon me, '
My Mother none could clear,
To say that I who dwell on high
Should call a W oman so,
Who first did cause my agonies,
And then no further go,
Withouta Br id e to be applied,
For to avenge the whole
On Satan’s head, as I have said—
My Tyrant so nrust fall.
So Brethren hereto# must appear,
And your own Mother see.
If I do make you Sons and Heirs,
And so jo in t heirs with me,
Then she must come your Mother stfong,
That I have nam’d the Brine ;
Because by Heaven it first was done—
Now can she be denied ?
Her Promise claim, I tell you M iv ,
It is tofreeyou all: -
So now grow wise, I’ll not disguise,
But tell you from the Fall,
If I at first the W o m a n plac’d
A H elpmate then for Man ;
Though she by Satan’s arts was cast,
I did your H elpmate come,
From Her atfirst, and now at last
Tour H elpmate I will be,
If you go on as she ’th begun,
The P rom ise claim of m e ;
Then sure the Br id e must be applied
The Mother of you all
ANSWER TO SCRUPLES
Digitized by v ^ r O O Q l e
W ien I redeem from hell and sin,
Her P rom ise she must call;
So she must claim, and 1*11redeem,
As I did say at first;
The curse pronounc’d upon him there
Shall on the Tyrant burst*
So now to Man I bold shall come:
% If I, that come from Heaven,
Did condescend for to come down
To have a Mother given,
I say, from Man Mr Mother came,
Then now my Bride you see.
Will you not condescend the same,
To stoopas low as me ?
I rais’d her up, then Man must hope
I shall not leave her here,
Until IVe made her Foe to drop,
And all her promise clear.
So now discern how I do warn—
I honour’d her at first:
And if my sons you now will corner
My breth ren somust iurst,
To say the same—u we’ll gladly come ;
" We see the Promise clear:
“ The Woman’s Promise must be.known,
“ She is our Mother here 1
€t Her Promise see the whole must free—
“ Our G od did stoop so low,
" To make a Mother first of she ;
u How dare we proudly go
fl To swell so high, and her deny,
€
CWhen God did so submit ?
u We say, from H eaven the Son was giveiv
" And she did sure bear i t :
M *
CONCERNING THS BRIDE*
Digitized by v ^ o o o l e
€t Then God above did shew his love,
€
€ To call her so at first.”—
So now let Men the Tiial stand,
And they like me must burst.
c T + c v ts /h I Mother ^ere they must see clear,
1 The true Mother is come,
To claim the Son to be the H e ir ,
And free the whole for Man.
T he lines are deep that I do speak—
I made her the Mother first;
But if the Bride she’s now applied,
To have her Lord be plac’d ;
L qr d oyer all is now her call, ,
Your every Foe to free ;
Then now my Brethren, you see all, *
Your Mother she must be.
So now ’tis come to God and Man,
The W oman doth appear
A Mother now for both become,
The Fall in all to clear;
Because by lies he did disguise,
Deceiv’d her at the first;
And I should surely act unwise
Had I the Woman cast,
Never to free from misery,
But still support the Foe9
That did by subtle arts betray—
And shall I let him go ?
Unpunisb'd here shall he appear ?
N o: I her cause will plead;
And now his Guilt he sure shall bear,
I’ll bring it on bis Head.
So ponder on as thou’st began,
In all my.Bible through ; ,
Q2 ANSWER TO SCRUPLE?
Digitized by L r O O Q l e
f
' • ’ 1 ;J. ■
concerning th e b r ib e . "9 3
For as a chain the whole doth stand,
When plac’d before your view: ' • . •
So I’ll appear, the c h a i n is here
That now must join the whole; 1
The Woman’s Fall I now shall clear, ; [
And mate her Foe to fall. 1
Then see the c h a i n that must remain, t ; !
The M other and the Bride !
To bring in Man with me to stand, 1
For so’t must be applied. : I ;
A M other here she must appear, • 1 | i
A M other a l l ; .
For Satan’s guilt he now shall bear,
And I shall free the Fall.
Then at the first as she was plac’d \
You’ll own it for your good, ,
That on the Serpent it was cast, , !
And so the P romise stood— '
Made strong to she, you all must see 5 . ^ j
And I have rais’d her here, !
To be a M o th er / n / to me 5 j
And so must Men appear, •
,
To say—“ the Brid e must be applied j ,
MAMoTHER/orwfl//; '
" For she is ready, as ’tis said, i
<
c To claim it from the F all: ;
€
€ Her Promise there, that did appear,
" Her dying L ord to free, * 1
u To bring him in the perfect h e ir .”— ;
The kingdom is for me, . j '
When Satan’s head, as I havesaid, i !
Is braised for the Fall; j M
Then men I’ll free from misery— , | ! !
The marriage stands for all, 1 H ,
Digitized by Google
That now"w ill gome with her to join-*-
But know she is the first.
That thought the Promise e’er So claim,
Then see how she is plac’d,-
The first of all to hear the calif
My spir it here is come;
‘ As at the first, it must be known.
When I the virgin warn'd :
In p e r s o n here I might appear,
But now it is not so;
( It is in spir it I am here,
I That every soul shall know.
Then judge the two before your viewr-f
The Mother and the Bride *
Came both from mb, you all shall see,
The H olt Ghost applied.
As at the'^?r$f, 'tis now at lastk
Though ’tis a different way;
Because in Flesh I then did burst,—
But now, Ho thee I say,
In Spirit strong I ’m purely come
To claim Mv k t nodom here;
And from the Bride, it mult be known,
Her Promise all must cl*ar.
So now discern, ye sons of men,
And w$lgh the matter deep :
How dare you longer to contend ?
My Bible speaks of it.
If I stoop'd so, you ^11must know
That ypu must thersame,
To prove the Serpents overthrow,
The Woman’s Promise claim,
-Then Mother she must surely be*
A Mother so to M an, -
ANSWER TO SCRUPLES
Digitized by v ^ r O O Q l e
The s a m t as M art was to me,
Thoughfiesb from her didcome }
In Sp ir it here the end must clear,
M r Kingdom for to see 5 ,
And then alike you’ll say, we are,
> ' Add made joint heirs with mb.
And now I shall tell thee in plain words. If I,
that was the son of God, who came down from
.Heaven, did hot take upon the the form of Angels,
like as I had seht them to warn Lot, and who they
judged.swere men ; in that manner I might have
cbtrte to men, and died for them the same ; but as
I did riot eome that way, but was born of the wo­
man, that Was condemned by jthe man, for the
trangnession of the Fall, when I condescended to
raise her uj^, by making her the moth er of the
sou of G oh, Men must noWraise her up likewise,
by joining With her in the P romise that was made
in the F all; then know, that she is the spir itu a l
M
other for all men, as M iry was a tem poral
mother for m e : yet knows, she had a spir it u a l .
■
S
on, by whose S p ir it and P ow er, the redemption
»/Man'must he brought in. So now the tem poral
Mother is become the spir itu a l M o th er, by the
visitation of the L ord unto her, and must bring in
her spiritual c h il d r e n . And they that will not
acknowledge her as a true M other for M an, by
claiming her P ro m ise, to fulfil one part, as M ary
was my M other, to fulfil the other part; those that
will not thus acknowledge her, have no share nor lot
in my K ingdom ; for by my b ir t h , being born of
her, to take from her the Guilt that Man cast upon^
her, know 't^at she must take from me the guilt thal
was cast upon m e, by claiming the Promise. Now
I have shewed thee, how by the Sp ir it I made the
Woman the M o t h e r at first, by the P ower of
CONCERNING THE BRIDE. QS
Digitized by Google
9 * ANSWER *0 SCRUPLES.
r
the H oly G hosY, a M other to G od as wel^M W
M a n ; And now l have shewed you by the visitation
o f my Sp ir it , how I have made her a true M o­
th er to M a n .— And this wus, the W isim / of
G o d , to clear h is honour, in making the fp flv
that no man might charge G od foolishly, nfr'^hafih
Satan might proudly boast his arts were greater
than my wisdom ; therefore, he shall fill by the
P rom ise, and by the W oman’s Petition, who ner
ver knew her Promise till I revealed- it. An$
now he that will not honour her, to own her Prafc
misejust, doth dishonour m e ; but he doth it
knowingly doth despite unto my S p iR itf* ; then
let them judge for themselves what ri&sP be their
end; but he that does it through unbelief, as the
Jews through unbelief denied my MqTHEij, End
were cast out of my favour, so will t£s ot(rets*he
" *n<
cut off from the earth, as enemies of fiine
their unbelief. So here are words deep for the
learned, if in seeing they can see, or in hearing
they can understand; but if they cannot, let them
answer me, why I made the VVoman my Motlien
if l never designed in the end to make the Woman a,
true Mother for Man ?—And now gq on- with thy
Eible. - ,7
■i.
T he ^Explanations of the Bible e
Second P a r t .
in tie ?
■■
m*
> S. Rousseau, Printer, •'
Wood Stogfe Spa Fit [ds, London.
Digitized by Google 7* I
TRUE EXPLANATIONS
OF THE
P A R T T H E SE C O N D .
C O N C E R N I N G JOB.
. Sunday Afternoon, Sept. 30, 1804. !
J oanna has been reading through Job ; as she is
to read her Bible through, and draw hef own obser­
vations, and her own judgment from what sire reads.
But asshe wished, if it was the will of the Lord, to
answer Mr. Maudesley’s letter, she desired it to be
read again, to see if the Lord would be pleased to
answer it.— “ Now, Joanna, 1 shall answer this letter
after thou hast drawn thy judgment upon the ,Boolc
ofJob: and when thou hast drawn thy judgment, I
shall answer thee again.” Now Joanna’s judgment
upon the Book of Job is very different to what it'
ever was beforei When we come to weigh 'the 1st
chapter, and*the 8th verse—The Lord said unto Sa­
tan, Hast thou considered my servant Job, that
there is none like him in the earth, a pekfbct and1
upright num, one that feareih God and escheweth
evil ? Here *the Lord justifieth Job’s conduct, as
being an upright and good man ; but Satan goes on
to condemn hiryj and the Lord gave Satan leave
every way ito fry hint; and when Job’s trial was
put to the utmost, and his wife condemned him, in
chap. ii. 9 ; but Job reproves her in verse 10 .— Thou
speakest as one of the foolish women:' shall we $e-
' N
8. Roui&auj Printer,
Wood $uer» Spa Field*
Digitized by Google
i
93 TRUE EXPLANATIONS OP TAB BIBLE# :
ceive good at. the hand of God, and shall"we not
receive evil? In chap. i. 2 1 . he saith—The Lord
gave, and the Lord taketh away; blessed be the
name of the Lord.— In ail this J ob sinned net, nor
charged G od foolishly. Yet, in chap, iii, we hear
J ob complaining, and wishing the day to be dark, 1
wherein he had been born. After his complaining
,his friends reproved him.. But no man, without
experience, can be a judge of J ob in this ease.
Consider the affliction he lay in, when his grief
seemed more than he could"bear. He might have
this sorrow of heart without murmuring against
G o d . This is my judgment drawn from experi­
ence 5 for though I had never Job’s afflictions in 3
manner Hike him ; yet a similar case was mine in
17 9 2 , when I judged myself visited by the .Lord*
and the powers of darkness broke in upon me, and
every friend was entirely against me. This made
me miserable and unhappy, fearing I might- do
wrong, and not knowing how to do right; having
the threatenings of the L ord on the one hand, if I
did not obey; and Men and Devils Tormenting me
On the other hand, of the fatal destruction I should
meet with, if I did obey. This has often made mo
wish, with Job, that I had died in my cradletj or
that I'had been drowned, when an infant that I fell
into the river *; and yet at the same time. Heaven is
my witness, I had not one thought to murmur against
God ; and only thought I was a short-sighted erea-'
ture, fearing I might act wrong; therefore, I wished
sooner never to see life, than to live to Offend the
Lord which in that confusion and difficulty I wai
afraid I might offend him. And this appears to mo
flie case of Job} but when I come to Job’s friends*
it appeareth to me, Satan worked strongly in them,
to try to persuade; Job tp acknowledge he hadhew a
vtw . tvifked man, winch Joh refused, to dcu Thii
appeareth .to me to be the ^rts of the Devil, to make
*/ See the Answer to the Disputes ^ith the Powers of Daikhess,
Digitized by Google
Qob the liar, when the L ord had justified JoBi
and by Jeb-’s words he affirms the TRiJtH of what
the L ord had said concerning him.- Hear what
Job says, chap. xxix.. to chap, xxxii. But heat
what answer Elihu made him ; and how he goes on
to chap, xxxviii. Then the Lord answered Job out
Of the whirlwind. In the last chap. Jth verse, the
anger of the Lord was kindled against his friends:
for he said, “ They have npt spoken of me the thing
that is right, as my servant Job hath.” Now, though
Job’s friends were, as he said, cruel fofmentofs and
miserable comforters; yet they did not speak against
God : yet by theirjudgment they denied the L ord,
like the Devil, that when the L ord justified J ob,
Satan condemned him; and when Job justified him­
self, his friends condemned him; they told lies to
him; and wanted J ob to affirm they were true. See
chap. xx. 19 . what they upbraid Job with ; and how
false was their accusation; therefore, though they
justified G o d , and condemned J ob for justifying
himself, yet they did not justify the truth of the
words of the Lord, that he had spoken of J ob, as
Job by justifying. hinjiself did. This is my judg­
ment in reading the Book of Job. Wherein I err I
trust the Lord will forgive m e,.as I am ordered to
draw my own judgment, and cannot deceive the
Lord with the thoughts of my heart.
THE ANSWER OF THE LORD.
“ Now I will answer thy thoughts of J ob. I shall
not blame thy judgment that thou hast drawn: for
though I bid thee draw thy own judgment, yet thy
ideas come from m b ; and it is I that work them in
thee. And now I tell thee of Job’s friends: Satan
' worked strong, in them to make Job confess himself
guilty of crimes he had never committed ^ then Sa­
tan might accuse m e , out of J ob’s, own mouth.
Therefore Job. contended with men as 1 con-
- N 2
CONCERNING JOE. 90
Digitized by G o o g l e
tended with the D evil; and Job justified himself
as I justified him.— So
Here's a mystery deep ofJ ob,
That i shaU now explain.
I did with Satan first dispute,
And he did then maintain
That J ob was not what I had spoke,
And so he tried the man;
And on his friends he strong did work
To bring the likeness on;
That J ob with man might so contend*
Himself to justify;
And like thy judgment, in the end,
Satan might give the lie,
✓ Isay, to me, if words from her
Were spoken like the rest.
This is a mystery none did see,
. Till 1 had fill a thy breast,'
For to discern how I do warn*
From shadows plac’d before;
This is the way, I now do say,
. . Thy thoughts'do so appear.
So now let men the same begin
‘ To cbpy after thee;
Then, 1 do tell them, in the end
Aright they all will see.
And how to clear the End that’s near.
From J ob I shall begin ;
And from thyself I will appear,
As thou hast form’d the thing:
For with thyself thou him compar’d,
And soTil place the line; ’
For men like them have greatly err’d,
T hat every soul will find.'
Just likeJ ob's friends have thine goneon,
And like them Still they be;
# But to the purpose I shall come,
And let men answer me,
If they can dear their sayings here,
What they against thee spoke ? 1
I tell them* no: they all must know,
/ Like J ob’s, they wrong have wrote;
And so their tongueshave all been wrongs
But thee I’ll justify.
When to the purpose all do come,
, Will they their God deny,
T hat lies all through, they’ll prove it so*
And lies from me appear, .
Because thy life I’vejustified ?
Then let Men answer here, J
If they can command prove it wrong?
But let the trutfr be spoke;
100 T&T7B BXBLANATIOIfS OB THfi B tB I^
Digitized by ( ^ o o Q l e
m
fcONCEftNING JOB.
Would thev wish fhee for to condemn,
And prov’d his God uqjust
Now i ll explain what.l do mean,
The way he me might cast: .
His friends ?ec clear, they did appear
Against him strong to bursty
And they condemn’d his every hand.
In guilt he must he found. -
If Job the same himself had blam'd.
Then Satan must be crown’d,
T o sav that he, morejust than mb.
Did sure condemn the Man.
The crimes that they did lay on he,
I tell you all discern,
No Justice there they then did clear.
Tliat ip the Mtya was found; *
But his accusers tyc did hear, ,
And by his conscience crown'd,
The words of me were spc,ke for he.
To prove it in the end.
So Men and Devils both you see
Must to my sceptre bend.
But had the Man himself condemn’d.
He must condemn his God,
Totustifyhim From on high.
The paths that be had trod.
So, if that he had done like they.
The truth denied all there:
And said in sin his life had been $
And his accusers were #
More just than he, then 1 must Ue lit
Now see the mystery plain;
Because the truth he must deny4
Could I his cause maintain
.From first to last, if Job had burst,
Justlike his friends aprear, ,
And say in sin his life had been,
As they condemn'd him there?
Then "they might swell with arts from hell,
The man I could not f \
JkIc must be cast, if he had burst
In lies spoken like they*
Could l appear the man to clear, .
That wa* such sinner great, ,
When I had boldly said before
In him was no deceit ? *
No, ho : to man I thus shall cpme,
And answer so for thee ;
I've plac’d thy life throughput the land,
That men tby life raigh t see;
How every way men would betray, .
And Satan work’d the same. *
Digitized by Google
Then nqfar to Man I so sh^ll come}
The troth from thee it came,
Like J ob^before, I’ll answer here*
I did him justify;
And if his lire henad condemn'd.
His God he’d give the lie;
And so denied what I had said,
. If he'd denied the whole. (
But the first lines call thou to fiiind—*
Thy word did hasty fall:
Had he denied then t must lie 1 .
That upright he appear’d. '
And so to Men I how do say,
The sameI’ll answer here***
Thy life hath’been, to me ’tis seen,
. Then fearing of thy God,
Which Mep and Devils both condhmft’d,
But let them fear my rod:
Because from thee the truth they’ll see$
But J ob’s friends thou hast found.
I know they’ve spoken so by thee,
But let them hear the sound, .
When at fhe last the truth do bursty .
And I in power appear;
I shall, condemn thy every friend, ,
That act as Job’s did there.
My Bible so all fresh shall know, - ...
•r I plac’d it for the end; “ ‘ .
These wondrous things I order’d so» ,
Because ’twas my intend, * ,
When at the last the whole did bursf,
To work"my Bible through, ,
To shpw the shadows from the first .
r The way I shalf go through,
To clear the whol<2 : and Men must fall, .
That will with me dispute;
.. The likeness I have shew’d in all*
So let*mankind stand mute.
For God or Man they must condemfi,
In what was said before: >
And will they answer from thy hand* .
That J ob the most did err ? '
If they say no: I’ll answer so, •
That silent all must stand; , •
Because with he do all agree,
And Men alike condemn) , t * *
As thou say’st here, I how shall cleaif,; 4
The truth in all I know. -
Sufferings that no onehere could Bear,
That thouiiast all gonf through, ‘
Unless that I who dwhfr on high -
Had strengthen’d thee in all. -
Therefore thy friends at first did lie, -
WhenT toiliee did call i . , .
*0$L TIUtE EXPLANATIONS OP TBS BIBLE,
Digitized by Google
cbTxckxmxG jo *.‘ $03
B louse thy friends they did pretend
To act like JobVbefore;
And thought to see it in the end,
That thou would’st answer here,
Some sin hi thee must surely be*
That la afflict thee so :
For many ways I sp disguis’d,
Thou kpew’st not how to go;
Yet still m me thy trust I see,
And so thy foes I’ll shame j
Because the .end ’tis my intend
That all shall know my Name,
T he mystery hereofJob I’ll c le a rs
Should I afflict one Man
With grief too great for he to hear.
By Satan’s artful hancj >
Ttelrthee no j it should not be so,
Had I not ends behind, '
Another /dayto shew.the way
The Tempter I should bind.
$o from the word that’s on record,
Satan did try the man,
Then every, way for to betray;
But sec how ne did stand,
With words appear himselfto clear,
As I had clear’d before;
And though he thought my rod was there*
The grief that he aid bear
Came all from me, was judg’d by he,
And yet he did submit:
But now I’ll chain the enemy,
And lay him at Men’s feet.
One chapter there to thee I’ll clear,
I say, the following day:
And other mysteries will appear,
I shall before thee lay ;
Because to Man all Types must cerne-^
The Type of J ob stands deep:
After his fall, which came by Hellj
He did in grandeur break; ^
And from his friends See what is penri’d.
They surely did repent j
'Their boasting soon was at an end—
? .
And so my mind is bent:
The just I’ll free, as I did he,
And make their foes tP turn ;
Because the end, they all shall see.
It just like J obs shall come.”
The xxxviii chapter, ver. 1 1 , Hitherto shaft “
thou
come, but no further; and here shall thy proud
W
aves be stayed.— The 13, 14, is , verses. Thai
it might' take hold of the ends of the earth, that
the wicked might be shaken outof it, it is turned as
Digitized by Google
clay to the seal: and they stand as a garment; and
from the wicked their light is withholden; andthe
Jhigh arm shall be broken,
4i Now, Joanna, thee HF answer:
Mark the >*prds were written thcre^
That were spoke* by thv Master,
\V hen the whn lwimf did appear.
Disputes at first, 'twas I that bursty
V
yit\t Sataq for artime;
Disputes with Men did then comeon^
But no one fajew my mind ;
for sfTent there 1 all did hear,
But then, my silence broke
In thunder there for to appear;
But men discern'd it not, •
That for the last the thing was plac'd^
To shake the whole away.
And from the Seal 1 now shall burst: ,
This is the Mouse of tyay*
That 1 am come to seal in Man,
For Satan I’ll destroy;
For his proud waves have been so strong*
My friends cannot enioy
Their peace in me, I plain do see.
But now 1 11 shake the whole;
Tor his high hand shall never stand, ’
I’ll make the foe to fall.
If he at first on Man did burst#
Then now I'll burst on he,
And plead like Job, to have him cast--*
A mystery none do see.
So I'D cm! here, and say no more,
The lines tor all go deep.
The Ty pc of Job doth here appear,
To make thv friends to weep;
Though some begin, as they had done^
And presents send to thee
This is a shadow deep for Man,
That ever}’ soul shall see*;
Sb if they turn, as some have doneA
1 shall forgive them all
Thatclo repent, and now relent,
They e er condemn’d thy call.—
v
.
I shall reason with thee on the morrow.’'
Ilere ends Sunday night, Sep. 3Q, 1804.
|<3Mf TREE EXPLANATIONS OP T^B B ItLE.
.*
■ On Sunday morning 'ye received a hamper with poultry, front.
Mr Cole, a farmer in Devon, who was Joanna's great opposer, anil
naid she ought to be hanged, jvhen she was in Devon; b*t noeaJ}
the family are coine ins trong believers; as the hareal in Devon hts
wakened many.
Digitized by Go6gle
- , Mottdby, Oct. fst, 1804J •
*
’
te And now t shall tome to answer the man, who
Wished thee to enquire of M i concerning him;. Let
not his heart be cast down, nor his spirits grieved,1sit1
any artsor subtlety that the Devil ihay try to blast his1
comforts. But let him weigh deep the Book of Job',
and see the judgment thou dfaweSt from ity an# the;
answer that I have given thee. For now I iefi thee^
Satan will try many, as he tried Jo b; butletm en!
stand out like J o b , and I shall arise to plead for mi/fl;
as I pleaded for Job; But he that falieth by temp*-*
tations,' will fall on the corner stone, which is the
foundation that was laid in the F a ll; and then that
prom ise will break him off from obtaining it< But
now is the time for that corner Stone, and that pro­
m ise to fall on the head where it Waslaid; which was
on the head of the Serpent, that is, the D e vil: and it.
shall grind all bis power, like powder. So now let
men take care they dd not fall on that padMiSR *that
meaneth, .not to believe it, and stumble at its fulfil­
ment ; for then they may fall to be broken off, when
the -stone falls on the head of the woman's betrayer$
and men’saccuser. But now let the man Stand Stedfast
in his faith, and he shall live for ever in m b , whether
in this world, Or that which is to coiiiei -NoW let
him weigh deep the xli. ch. o f Job; M y answer to Job
was never discerned byarty mab; neither Was it fever
understood by man, what l meant in the following
Words— *
■
“ Canst thou draw out Leviathan with a
hook, or his tongue with a cord, which thou lettest
down? Canst thou put a hook, into-his nose, or
bore his jaw thrdugh With a thorn ?” These are the
words men never understood. The Leviathan mfean-
cth the D e n i; and by his contending against Job,
Idrew him outlwith the hook of his words, and by
foe cord that I let down to give him the power, then
I put the hook into his nose, and bored his jaw
through With a thorn, that he could nevermore
condemn Job. But now do men vainly suppose this
CONCERNING K>fi; f t | :
, . Digitized by Google
wasdone fop Jo? only ? I tell them n o : it stands a
T*B£ f $ r ^U,0tm ^-.’tgnA,}ike-tbe iiesdath&nihtheOea
if <|e ppw*r «f-the Devil a'gsiort man)’ whinlfc «Uia
<fi «a»> fto metredestroy, than-hiecoo'destroy*
the! Levi|tt<^»; ;in *ht> ■
sfcR ■Bat fc>
jr 'tat' wisdom l
shftftk|d> thevfkttl/eotrcm&ogJofej andfconfouhded:
t^rD e vil ^onfiet-ning Jobi afti l took. Satnn’s poWer
fr-Qj^dt tfohi that h<<: coidd no mors aeejufeo hinti «n d
no<;#i9Et eotn^etnft him ? is- he txtedto thtf otmeetj.
and' fonpd jph^what I SJtid^hfewas,-—And h©W I a m
como.tlKf sftme to justify all menj that are kinging
for i>
c
iY.:cotemg. r and shew Sabafyit Was'their being
4ealdto knhwdedgje that irraidte them, ckdottr for m f
Ble(od1 )and pJwt M
.is tddfcath : 'add 8b I fell on dm
corsbr sTott®*-^ the promise :•mid ibbngh 1 wtm
hr&kah at that itime iodmput to kkdth)-p& when dm
fulfilment of■the 'pbqmeee tomes-,hn&wrt Hwd findon
. him* to- gdnd Mmto-fetaider. - YMslii the fnlfiltKrlt
qf tkexxiti,*: Bat. if- O nfall onthat promi-
sb, ms
the $%Ws didi the? tniti fall to-he broken qff. £u&
letfiketkthwvfi dtat I fell to-rise- agumf tor- thrownil
hitfpawirt mnd-east the tQ» n £r trana^sE him i for
all Shea thus* know that'that coEn k* arotic mefea*
eth tlle. PROMiiE that-was ik;ide in -the PAi*.*- NoW
let thejearoed anawfr, what they make of that cor*
tief. stoned; But i answer, they-can no nftofe;expkin
it, thin* fchey cao draw oct the Leriattmn with the
hook :: titeither can they; explain the*myfcttrios of my
Bibfle,; in what ntanoer, and for what purpose, ad
Tyipeisand Shadow^were pUced, and all these word!
1*erespelter!.■ ■
:
■
' ‘ - -
t . - . . . - •"
. <*••'
• ; - SbjtioWto Maa I bold; shall 4oiUf&: r
Kcad.anmy,Bibletliroiii;)i, . r
AiidjwJtfike thee, to ^dnder oift "
, ' . W(i> 6 laid beforetheir fi$w$; \ ' -
And ieb;them s^e as jfkej* as thcp».
’ ftffv ^tedom’slii&ift atl,
' ; Thattottweieod 'Xk^yiw tend *
H rtVv?aU*; ■
*
■-u * ■ *'
Then 1TI draw out witn every hook
- *: Tile tetnptei- tfo3$ sibod tlitre; ^
DOS* TRUK EXPt*XA«t*»*SL0* THE BIBLE.
U
Digitized Google
But how by M apVwithkW -
Now see m t B
M
e>/te^fekr’: r ^
As I diid say tb idb t e day,' • ■
I now mflyf i* f 1 s>Man 5 7 J’!*' '
T te th*t^’s none can fcfey.
The *v*y I said td whi , ‘ T
And now the saro^ T ^ ’t^
Can youttestrWy ydiir foe, ’ 1
, T to ^ iiW that ^shi is sureJy'strong, -
And doth afehitig go?'* ’ r ’ ’
I know h* than*his {jbifof is*strW
rtjj*v ^ r
They film d^trhy^ ‘ " J .
Bitf i-jft %Gb&shall send a rod* . : 1
For man i wftl enjoy.'*
Ch. xli. la stw fsfa T -rifc UeheJdeth aflhigh things;
ne is a King over 3II the children o f pride.
C♦
; i) /, :i r; • *
>i•.». •- . .
Now from theVerse that tbptels lj^tio&'d
Lefthe wise and IpriV^fl Vepj| .
Then’they iptisf <$rpn all copte^ti'on?
Know the fish was Rfdud py i ?
W hat I compar’d, they all m\j&t heaj* *
AType^aiah stoodr* w
How^can men *ay another way • \ ^
I do ^he'fi^h ^Tiu^B, .
T o be the when Td° tall ...*?. . ^
ftfy*cliii<lVeiji 'ffoiia V
. ...
As I did, there to JoVappe^iv > .. *r
His sufferings to redrew,. r'
His grief to ffie?> T uowtellt^ee,
The fish I did'cpinp^re^ ^ y
There w^s po. wjis'doja ^rxiug|vt: !. ;•
Forth aestrqr'hitri there; ’ ‘ \ ,
And so to Mari T now shalV.Gppfe^ if ;
You can’t dcstrpy yonr fog; . , —
For as I ‘
said the ffsb Was.sjt^o^ '
So SatanV arts! jviiQWj '* f <
But as a kihgean yop^ow Jpripjr . •
That fish upon the se a ,’
That all the chfldrch here' of.pride
His pow^r dp castaway> v . • r
In power there jcah he appear, r
j O’er alltHen) tha^ aje prqpd?.
I tellthee? N ^ 'h e ^ a n u o ^ j.. , r . . *
Nor can ypi^tlns acuity , ' V . .
To make it htpm by Teamed ..
Thewajr*i\k.nvcnfipijk'd.^j;4f\ y
Nought bu^thh’fe'h
That did la powcv anBrPr% ' . /
- No; ’twas to nett,*tlie truth'•T tell,
Though like a fable penn'd;
For Satan's arts they so did swell
Again»t my every friendj
‘
O 2
\
Digitized by Google
So unto he I (hen didsay,*' ;
Could he destroy his Foe,
Who like t|iat fish in power did lie ?
But now the truth you know,
*Twas djpwn from he, the end yflii see.
Because you know ’twas great$ . ‘
i And Ldid turn his enemies,
That judg’d thprpwas deceit
Fop^d ip the Man, his grief;did COmef '
But I did turn the whple; ,
< And po^ the end ’tis my iptend, '
* The same op Manshall fail; .. .
Though Saiap first in rage may burst, ^
, My friends for to condemni
But I do tell them at the last
.........: r , . .My thundering vpice shall come ^ r •' r
<c -:;ij My rri^hds FITfree, I nowteH thee, 1* * 1
A AsfF^e^d J ob before ^ ,
But first, you see* condemn'd they be \
By false friends to appear.
Who say, *tis wrong tnev do go on,
My friends they would confound; , t-
And strong ibe tempter pow is come.
I shy, in every sound, - *
. Tor'to condemn in eveiSr Map . ;
That upright wish tphe, •j
And wish the Serpent was destroy'd,
That t^ey might live in , .. ••
Then these to J ob ! shall allude—
And here the lipes go deep: - •
Because they wish1
for t9 be good, ,
That they my laWs may ^eep;
Sin £0 be gone, and I may come .
To be the guide of all ; v .
TbeB all may see they ubright b&
Or they’d reject the call. V. <
.
So unto J ob Fall allude, "
That wish iny Kingdom near; • .
Put I dosay to thee this clay, '
False friends do now appear,
As his did cotne, t see in Mai^
They daily do abound; ,
Hypocrisy they do condemn,
But their words will be found, -
I say, at last, as job’s did burst-4? %
* It fell upon their heads: ' . . j %
And in the end ’tis niy intend, *
, That back their words ill lea<^ .>
Upon AGm idr, when Fdo caU; ,. 1
' So let Ae vrords bp penn’d. ",l'
This is aVarning’deep for alj; V \ ‘
' j^or sp they’ll set Ae eh ’ v
TRUE Ex H A N A TIO N S O E T H E BJBLR,
- COltfcBBNINO j6 4 .' }0§
•
' In chap, vili. Job is deeply condemned by his
friends, verse :13— And the hypocrite’s hope shall
perish— Chap. xi. 2 , 3, Job is again reproved by
•his friends—Should not the multitude of words be
answered ? And should a man full of talk be justifi­
ed ? Should thy lies make men hold their peace ?
And when thou mockest,. shall no man make thee
ashamed' ? Chap. xv. Job is again reproved by hjs
friends, verse 4, 5— Yea thou castest off fear, and rc-
strainest prayer before God : For thy mouth'.utter-
eth thine iniquity, and thou choosest the tongue of;
the crafty. Chap, xx,-Job is again reproved by his
friends, verse'6—-The triumphing of the wicked is
short, and the joy of the hypocrite but for a mo­
ment. This'they laid to Job, that his triumph was
the triumph of the wicked, and his joy, the joy oF
the hypocrite, which they said should perish like
hisowfidung; and they which saw him, should say
where is he ? Therefore Job might well say, in chap,
xxi. 2 7 — Behold I’know your thoughts, and the-de­
vices which ye wrongfully imagine against me. But
how do his friendsreproVe him, in chap, xxii. 5, 6 , 7
—Is not thy wickedness greats? and thine iniquities
infinite ? For thou hast taken a pledge from thy
brother for nought, and stripped the naked-of their
clothing; Thou hast not given water to the weary to
drink,-and thou hast’ with holden bread from the
hungry. But see What Job answers.for himself, in
chap. xxix. 12 , 13— I delivered the poor that cried,
and the fatherless, and him that had none to help
him. The blessing of him that was r?ady to perish
came'upon me : and I caused the widow’s heart to
sing for joy. ' Now let God be true and every man
a liar ; for in the same manner that the Lord spoke
of Job to the Devil, in the same manner he justi­
fied Job to his friends. So, blessed be God, a good
conscience is better thah ten thousand witnesses.
For so Job washable* to justify himself; and their
pasting'as fools- was but for a moment ; and thu|
Digitized by Google
t ip tkitb E x r g ^ r i* ? # * * * -?
wifll b f thebpaering of.*11 those j& p judge of^W hgs
they know nothing *b*yf, .**, Job’* hH*dsj«dgQ4
him. " They neither kniewthe,c:jufe, n o f l^ .h f e ;
*nd therefor* they drew a prawd «
W
>
4,ignorant judgr-
m e n t; but were now cut d$wftH* their qwmJftnafe-
tng, and brought upon tblMflselreswhat they blamed
J oe fon-~that they had judged W hypocrite* CM*
denjning the ippoceat,; w 4. cje«ri«g Ahft guilty.
For though they did not discern ^ribat they, were
doing: yet ip the ^*nnei thGy wn^ef»«ed W b,l*»ey
joined wkh his accuser,-,-which wa?the,I><mb wfe»
condemned hup to Mf. ,NpW retpejmbej wh*t I told
thee ip 179?: thy cause w*s like Jo a ’a «au$*;, and
thy friends vfere liho Job’s ftjepdsu anriboeattsftbey
fould not account, for, #*iy wondreiiW working w ith
thee, they were sometime/siten* ;* n d w b « n tb c j
Spoke* they ^pok« wrong j ,f*r, tqbej) they dscyt their
judgment, they, 4rew j t r/^wtA* Aodnew I
w4l ptove they are p*rJtetJy 'HfceJ«*fc friend*; k
yb ilf they aw boaatj*g of their igwat gootiw tsA tm
*»*, and ,A e great pperits of thoi*$*Mtwl* efasy
•rejust ftk« Joe’s friends, Aat.wfltedt* mklot A cif
O o p t k by denying that, teas
padp in the Fall:; #nd by d ^yjijg Ah'&ifHnwmt f)f
the Merit of my De*th. -$few, usJaaidby.Jo*,.!
A
*y b y .
theej! if Jri» had said,of kifm V , what,his
frifnds said of .ham, he could not ;have said he WAS,a
jperfect and upright p m i for, then bejniw^JiMi*
f iyen hU Gou the lie* *od.denied them-pth wfjpbat
said to §at*n concerning hi**, A fd jvst the^orufij
pay of thee: ehouldfftt.*boWi speak,after theimannor
o f tbe.wpvjd, to-say thy writings,were ifrom-thy -owB
invention, thou, must give: the. w jw t tk tw i * a J
have spiel, through thy weitftoge hhatt tfceqn orine f tv a
v k . ^ W r j f <hPu.»yes< tk y .ie ».O o «iE W JGkvri,
theBthon muft be opfiply obeying him . Bntjbtrfcin
tlry heart thou hast often ^pfendeKd lik* Joh^ whco
confusion M sfUlgdtby tpidd»i,ftftd.k«ew(i¥)tifmni
whence they cam*,. , tiow oftcu haa thia bocat tby
Digitized by Google
firacfftfasxnrc job* t i t
t i f f y 7 r
coraplaming-^Qfe I that I td u ld CWftt before the
l a d ! O h ! that I couixi.. bo«r' myself before the
Most H ig h !— -•T•“ " - ' '
And no*Miffed lM -w illto n e :
For I si»H harder henr.'
Perfectlike Jo h th y tm * je h i» ^ fiv ^ /
3o tottkyftefatifcfe o*ef--
For much iike he* iw*w eriittaty
Tberef<thnL^ebi»'fe*5«rty
All ways to *rytfcy bead. • •
Soeveryvtatyifmdtedh*ay>
T h*tt^tfer^«|»)*& *4 i -
And every vHty, tta y w a ty sett
Like Jobt& oW akt appear. •
Integrity -was fm tid in fath* ■
••■
''
lSeElKWwi*ddbt$we<*p*
The hopes ttart ebon fclitM a?#*Hi a t t /
W hjrt-au^siiyfttefo'dragk
I*av, in ftr’t'cfcfciU&arte L
*) -l \ >*f
Because I let him.eveiyday;
L iW ^b ^th try n b reb erfe1•
Then now to -Itthbe^dJy.ean^
AadHt te a l *
Their boas baa*Uiwrn»
1 Wbc* fthntefi;in *
Then they sfcali uffelhey wrtrty be
Like,J ^ r f r r e te s heteloteev
Their boasting is bypOOabhv n
Their 4riw*Mii t e i i W o’
er \
Because of urn, afl flUihiniM
Theyeoatet&idfc Mm >
My Bible ck arsarte4 tia* ?l« ite
To ^hrtfy^Ay 'Ifatue^-- *
in wisdomshine*be thoughtsofthii*,
Thy Gd&.ib all te tf* t fated.
Bring me th e Men 4 M ta b can (come,
Mr&fcfe'cfettr ttediee t ^
Though ’tis Akmt.Hnti iHme a n <b Uell,
Tiien^ateoalltnaystmaie*;1
If ’tis from thee*’<tey*HJtoteS€te
Th<^a^iteotfr& grfcatswy
Then whereat 4h* M in <ca»-ifapeaa
For to corideian thee lter%? 1 1
For aftaete«icK9
My Bible nfacvwn clear, 1
’
*At thou ■
FB'uns^ter towi*-
. l^u»f*i^fcbokbatfttind ;
Agamst iny ^iferla^iatrispeim’d,
A n d J N u A ite ja d ^ th ^ \
-Then they muatsey dsothtr tep -*
* We judg’d the Bible wrong*
ii fll* d h /_
}
Digitized by Google
' ..,, •* Therefore our heart* were led Astray*
. “ Our Bibles to condemn." . ^
. . . .: jBut let them see the lines of thee,
Which way can Man appear* -
I ask them now, to answer thee*
The way thou st work’d it here ?
If by thy hand they say ’tis done*
Tlven by it they shall fall.
Let these pretended Chrittians come
• To answer one and all: ; '
When men appear* as'they have here*
You know* tnrtiughout the land;
My Bible's mocked every where—:
Then let these Christians stand
To answer men* as thou hast done—
. 'Tis more than Man can do.
Mv honour they do try to shun;
My words I'll prove them true.
Mv honour here can men now dear—i
Ne'er to support my vtofd?
Can I be honour’d by their prayers# *
While they deny their Lord ?
And while then here men do appear
My Bible to disgrace*
My honour they'll not try to clears
Then judge* ye fallen race.
If honour due is brought from you ?
I tell you* you bring none;
Just like the Friends of J ob were penn'a*
My honour you unthrone;
For they appear'd; I tdl you here,
. As Satan did at first*
That way my honour tried to clear—
See how the end did burst:
When I did come l did condemn— •
My thunder will appear,
I’ll make men tremble in this land: •
Like Jobs friends, men shall hear;
That right of me, they all shall see,
/ Like thee they have nof spoke::
And if they say *t come not frorii lie*
Let them no longer mock;
For they must see a mind in thee
My honour all to clear;
But can men say 'tis done by they*
' Because they meet in Prayer?'
1 tell them, N o; it is not so;
,Though thou dost pray the same; .
But if nofurther thou dost go,
Cotild st thou exalt my Name?
1 tell thee, No; they all shall kno#*
Their Prayers are all in vain,
If they no further will go through* ‘ .
Mjr honour to maintain..
) l l TRUE EXPLANATIONS OF T H S fttStg*
Digitized by Google
/
OP THE PSALMS. l i t
\ s So let them sec the end of thee,
Y Whcfo 1 have all work'd round,.
]| And then their boasting they will see,
If Like Job s friends they arc found.
/ So I’ll end here, and say no more;
L But to the Psalms I’ll come:
W hat in thy pondering heart appear'd y
Must now be penn’d by them ;
Then I'll explain what all do mean,
When thou hast all gone through 5
^ For now with men I shall contend—
The End is in my view.”
T H E P S A L M S .
Monday Eve?ting9 October !♦
Joanna has been reading the Psalms all the day,
wherein her heart has been pondering.
And now I shall give the thoughts of my heart,
from the words of David. His heart has often been
like mine ; and mine joins with him in complaining
against my enemies ; and relying only on the mer­
cies of God. But from my judgment of David, £
whatever was “
his fault, concerning Uriah, he ap •
pears, by the Psalms, to have a warm zeal and love
for God ; and a desire for his honour and glory, as
faras my heart ponders upon the Psalms; and I do not
read of any one in the Old Testament, that seems
to have more of a heart to honour and glorify G o d
than D a v i d . Hear what he says, Psalm xix, 1 4 —
Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of
my heart, be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, my
strength and my redeemer. And how strong is his.
Faith. Psalm xxiii. 4— Yea, though I walk through
the valley of the shadow of Death, I will fear no
evil:‘for thou art with me ; thy rod and thy staff
they comfort me. .Psalm xxv. 14—The secret of
the L o r d is with them that fear him ; and he will
shew them his- covenant. Psalm xxvii. 8— When
thou saidst, seek ye my face, my heart said unto
P
Digitized by Google -
the#, thy face L o r d will I seek,; hide not thy face
from me. Fer. 14—Wait on the L o r d : be of
good courage^ and he shall strengthen thine heart:
wait, Isay, on'the L o r d . Psalm xxx. 4 , 5 — Sing
unto the L o r d , O ye saints of his, arid give thanks
at the remembrance of his holiness : for his anger
endureth but a moment; in his favour is life : weep-
ihg may endure for a night, but joy cometh in the
morning. Psalm xxxvii. 4j 5— Delight thyself alta
in the Lord, and he shall give thee the’ desires of
thine heart. Commit thy way unto the L o r d ;
trust also in him; and he shall bring it to pass. Fer.
1 1 —The meek shall inherit the earth ; and shall de­
light themselves in the abundance of peace. Fer.
2 8 , 2 Q— For the L o r d loveth judgment, and for-
saketh not his saints; they are preserved; for ever :
but the seed of the wicked shall be cut off. The
righteous shall inherit the land, and dwell therein
for ever. Psalm lxxiii. 2 5 —Whom have I in hea-
ien but thee ? and there is none upon earth that 1
desire beside thee. Psalm lxxiv. 10— O G o d , how
long shall the adversary reproach ? Shall the ene­
my blaspheme thy name for ever ? i^er. 2 2 —Arise,
O G o d , plead thine own cause; remember how tl^e
foolish man reproacheth thee daily,
- Here enJs Monday Night.
J14 TRUE EXPLANATIONS .OR TH E B IB LE.
Tuesday, October 2 , Three o'Ciack*
Joanna has finished reading the Psahns through}
and from pondering them in her own heart, she can
see the manner of her. own life througli all D a v i d ’s.
Sometimes he writes strong in faith, and his whole
confidence and rejoicing ip the L o r d ; other times
he writes in despair, being overpowered by his'ene­
mies. The different manner of David’s writing, no
man can be a clear judge of, but those that can
Digitized by Google
t)?*th£ W x iiri.1- 7 r; "• • f i i i
judge by experience, -thfe different rrfanner that otif
own spirits may be led-; Fdf though tny ljfe has not
been like Darid’s, yet it has beeff similar to It in
another way; therefore, in the Psalms of David J see
the different Feelings of my own heart placed every
w ay.,l But one thing D a v i6 and I differ in : Psalnt
lx ix .2 1 . Though lie speaks of himself, he prophe­
sies ofoiir Saviour—They gave me also gallfot mjl
haeat f and:in my thirst they gave me vinegar to
drink: -In the following verse, he prays for utter
destruction upon his enemies, without shewing anf
mercy to man ;■and in the'same manner lie writes
in Psalm cK. Fatal -judgments without mercies oij.
his eniettties: Here David and I widely differ, oft
the'one hand, ,aild yet ,we join together on the olher:
Now I shall explain my meaning : I never cotild
feel that anger and indignation against the greatest
enemy ■I had in this world, but always felt'in my
heart to pray for my erjemies, that the Lord-would
turtv them from the evil of their ways. And though
1 h.aye been provoked,' to see the hardness of men’i
hearts, and have been angry with them ; yet Tal­
ways wished to see them turn from their evil, that
they might not perish everlastingly. This is my
heart, in a temporal Sense, that I cannot join with
D a v id there ; yet I can join with' David in a spi~
riTwtfj?sense. When I come to reflect on all the mi­
sery and sufferings, that the Devil has brought bn
mankind, from the Fall of ABAif;tp-this day, and
the dreadful blasphemy lie has Cbme to me against
the"LotiD, and against'his anoirited, who is full
of - mercies, goodness,1 and truth; but Satan’s
tnaKee has been; fu lP of -blasphemy. Here I
can'join with D aVi p,-1
-against the Devil. • Psalm
£ix.-']7 , )8 — As he loved cursing, so let it come
linto him ; as he: delig'hted not in blessing, so let
ft be 'far from him. As he clothed' himself with
fcurstng KKd-as with his garment, so let it come
iftto his - bowels- like-water, and like oil into.
P 2
Digitized by Google
his bones. . Now this is the spirit of the ‘Devil,
from his own confession tome.* Then if it be his de­
light, let his delight come upon him ; and let him
not make others miserable with the wretchedness
that he delights in. Here, in a spiritual sense, my
heart joins with D avid : and the feelings of my.
heart, in various different ways, are perfectly penned
by David in the Psalms. And the Spirit of- the Lord
must be with David, or he would never have had
snch strong love for the Lord, as he expressed. But
the prophecies of David go deep to the establishing
of Christ’s kingdom. Psalm ex'. 1—-The Lord
said unto my Lord, sit thou at my right hand, until
- I make thine enemies thy footstools Here David in
spirit calls our Saviour Lord : and he adds? in ver.
3— Thy people shall be willing in the day of thy
power, in the beauties of holiness from the womb of
the morning : thou hast the dew of thy youth. Psalm
lxxxix. l 9 , ‘
27, ‘
28, 15—Thou speakest in vi$jon. to
thy Holy One, andsaidst, I have laid help uponxtne
that is mighty ; I have exalted one chosen out of
the people..I will make hinvmy firstborn, higher
than the kings of the earth. M y mercy will I
keep for him: for evermore, and my covenant
shall stand fast with him. Blessed is the ,people
that know the joyful sound : they shall walk,
O Lord, in the light of thy countenance.
Psalm lxxxv. p, 10, l.l-r-rSurely his salvation
is nigh them that fear him ; that glory may dwell
in our land, Mercy and truth are met together j
. righteousness -and peace have kissed each other,
Truth shall spring out of the earth ; and righteous­
ness shall look down from Heaven. Psalm lxxxh. 8
— Arise, O God, judge. ,the earth : for thou shalt
inherit all nations. Psalm txxviii. 1. 6—I will open my
mouth in a parable: I wiil utter dark sayings o f old.
That the generation to come might know diem, even
the children which should be born ; who should arise
and declare them unto their children. ,Psalm \xx.y\,
J l6 TRUE EXPLANATIONS OF TH E BIBLE*
- Digitized by Google
. . : i J iOff \ TltM a t t -I M f i : 1 i ■? H J
9, lO—When dod ariseth tt><judgment, tosavrall
the meek of the earth : surely the wrath o fm a i;
shall praise thee : the.xemai.ttd^r;of wrath,thou shalt
restrain. Psalm lxxv. 10— All the horns of the
wicked also w illI*cut off j bht the horns o f the
righteous shall be exalted. Psalm Ixviii. 18—Tbdtt
hast ascended on high, thou hast led captivity cap­
tive : thou hast received gifts for men ; yea, forth*
rebellious also, -that the Lord God might 'dwelt
among them. ‘ Psalm Ixvhv 7— God shall bless hs ;
and all the ends pf the earth- shall fear him. Psalm
hevi. 4— AH $hd earth shall Worship thee, and shall
sing unto thee ; they shall sing to thy name. Pialm
xlvi. 9 , 10*—He tnaketh- wars to cea6e>
- unto the
end of the earth ; he-brfeaketh the bow, and ctifteth
the spear in sunder; he:burnerh the chariot in the
fire> Be still 'and know that I am Gochi tw ill be
exalted among the heathejiy I will be exalted in the
earth. Psahn xL 6, 7 ,' 8— Sacrifice and offering
thoudidst not desire ; m-rie e&rshast thouopirted}
burnt offering and sin offering hast thou not requir­
ed. Then said I, Lo, I come : in the volume of the
book it is written of me I delight to do thy-Willj
0 my God : yea, thy law is within my heart. Psalm
ix. 5, 6— Thou hast rebuked the heathen, thou hast
destroyed the wicked, thou hast put out their name
forever and ever. .O thou enemy, destructions are
come to d perpetual end : and thou hast destroyed
cities; their memorial is perished with.thpm. Psalm
viii. 5 , 6—Thou hast made him a little lower than
the angels, and hast crowned him witli glory and
honour. Thou madest him to have dominion over
the works of thy hand ; thou has put all .things un ­
der his feet. Psalm ii. 6, 7 , 8— Yet have I set my
king upon my holy hill of Zion. I will declare the
decree : the Lord hath said unto,ine, thou art my
Son; this day have I begotten thee. Ask of'm e,
and I shall- give thee the heathen for thine inherit-
Digitized by Google
I I S TBUB e x P IiU O fM D e S .a r e H B B IB L fi.
Ancestral thearttetomosf partr of'tfte: edrth fbrthy
possession. <: ■ *-..t .• > •'
a..f^Now* Joanna,-! ;sh*U. answer thee. From the
fnannet-thouf hast brought backward the Psalms, so
shah J bring all things ,,backward* r
;N ow remember
ftfilvti ij— Ask and receive thy full dem ands; then
tviil >j give -thee .the heathen for -thine inheritance*
and the uttermost parts o f thpx
earth for thy possessi­
on. .'T h en .goes on what the pfpphecies are ; and
that help should be laidinpon one that jwas m ightyt
to receive „gifts for n>en. N ow ali.Jjh in ga thou
hast iworked backward, for m t*:to ask and dpnjadd
them-alh r But what,are the gifts 1 am to ask for mesj
but to give then* the'gift, of »hy sB ru ny and to de­
stroy their enemy,-, the D evil? N ow •as thou hast
worked b^ckwardjthe prophecies o f m s , to ask and
receive* sjoj have-worked backward the Bible*, for
thee $Oo3skrand receive thy. full demands* that tiw
W om an’s betrayer m ight be cast 5 and thCiWomari
m ight be freed,. .This -is the help that is, laid upon
one. that is m i g h t v : that is able to save junto the
.all them that long for m s com 1n o .— , t-
_ • ! r . Now HJ bc^in from wliat diou’st done,
. To trace the Psalmist back, '
And tlicn, I tell*thee, in the end
Thev’ll fiiid hbw all must break.
♦, ., Wisely tl*e words wemjudij’d by thee (
Of David s prophecy :
« — It was in spirit he did see
^ , The words that here do tie; '
; Because the Lord with one accord,
• • •• Plac’d Judgment at the tir*t,
That at his right hand 13houtd sit,
. , Until the end did burst.
That I did come for to fulfil,
\M* - ' As it is said before— - c
You know it -vas my Father's will*
In the Creation here,
The Wonfan’s Seed should bruise the head
Of him that did betray ; j ■ .
For so the Promise first was laid*..
* And backward, rnrw I say,
Digitized by Google
>:r:5 ~ s ’frT
The whole rfWtll eatfe^S tft&«TjaHfloirti
For backward Ttohall go, ‘ '
Till oitThk Sterpent I shall turn, ' ’ ^
Isay, theOverfblow. . ' r r ^
Let Men see'Clear fch&fFs'Written thexw* *
•
‘ And trace thbPsAfcMsdikb thee,; T t
And then-1 bi£ them Answer here, ' v
How they1the whole crtrt free ? ( .
WhatVlaion fihst can they how place'* ;
That did<#M£ for^tel; - *
'■ .„
That helpin' e should surrtly 1 -
The mighty ONEexcel? *
Or what First Born wasjudg’d by men, t
To be exalted so, * / j *,
Hieher thaw’earthly king to Wine t; '
Above thbtn; you do know* ' ^
A Let men aqlpeAr arid arisWer h<!re, '* ‘ *
. dlow they do-jhdge^he fhmg ? ^
Because the Word! are written nere— ; ’
Higher than earthly kibg^f. r \ r
This surrtb Man criti n^Ver corite > *
Then it riiust Aometo Me; " ' ,
7 Who shed my Blood then'iri Mart’s steady
As there the fault *ybu:sefe^r ; .
Was cast b y Mari': so t'did^coftie; ^
But noWTIl bring it back,M1 J ,
' Isay, upon the^ Sbrprinfs head,/ r r . 1
And ne>haH feel the rack'. " ' p ' •
Becauserthat long he did blaspheme;' n
And does it to this day; ,
But he shall know my every Najne— :x
The Promises do lay , r ^
For me to come again toMan, *
And plead my promi$£ here; .
And as a God PH now ariafce, . * . ‘
I’ve told thee so before; ^
When Fat first to thee did buftt, • , ^
In Spirit toappear, " *
I said the Serpent should be cfcst—
* ' ^
The second rsalm was hear $
That 14 fulfil’ray FatheFs will, •
And my demand Fd cEailrt ; ' ■ r.
And now this day, to thefc I siay, ‘
I will the whole maintain ] ,
My cause I’ll plead, a$T ha*t<AsalcL- ' 1
tlemembef- ailbefBrfe : " *
How the reproach of \rickO(| rmeu * 1
Doth daily herd apjtear *
But 111go back to brmg the stroke, r ’*
I tell thee, now ori M
fert> • *
If thaft iWyiBiW^still they’ll mock, v ’*
When I have shOw'd them plain *^
Howritdoth appear ihy PibtecIear^ ' " ^
'fhat no Man cartdwiy: 1 - * ^ \
Digitized by Google
- Btttif they now beginio fear* .
Andsechow alfdo lie*
, , ^
Then theyll,*ee plain in evtry line,
W hen I was murder’d here,
Tha. ascended up on high* -
To make my B*ple clear: .
And gi|ts Written lsaid Id bring,
And so ’t shall now come down;
I said the Comforter should corner
The Hol y Qkost be found,
That in twy Name should surely come,
, And m my Name ’tis dona*
Andas thou say’st of David’s Psalms—
His mind was like thine own ;
Only intone tbeu can’st notjoin,
Then'now j ’li join with thee:
As to th&Serpent thou artcome»
„ In Spirit join’d with h e ;
( That’s D avid here I mean to clear,
That wish’d it tp the man :
Mv eneipies he could pot bear— *
The shadows from him come.
But thou dost say another way-,' ,
That Satan is the Foe : '
Mankindh* daily does betray, ■
And lhat thou well dost know;
t In blasphemy he came to thee,, T
' And did"blaspheme my Name $•
, Thou wish’
d k now to fall on he— ,
So all thy foes ('ll shame,
If they will say another way, *
“ We do not wish it here 5
** Though he the Woman did betray,
Herguilt we will not dear,
“ To have it laid on Satan’s bead,
“ But let her guilt go on.”
Then as the Psalm mankind do read, *
They could not bear for M an;
But now th®same I do discern,
T is to ih&Serpent plac’d:
And in like manner men are come,
Their Lord for to diierace; r
f Then surely t, who dwellon high*
Have shed my Blood in vain,
If men go on \ay enemies, ‘
And Satan's cause maintain.
But if they turn, in sorrow mourn, + r
And alfhegm like thee—
. M On Satan’sbead it might be laid, ;
% « H isblasphemy, we see, *
«• Will never cease, to bring in peace ;
u We wish him for to fall*’ 1 ,
• Then their rehellipp let diem turn—
For t shall an$w#££ll, ; .
IWf TJltTE ^ BIBLE
Digitized by Google
(That gift* for them shall surely com£,
. Their pardon I’ll implore;
And give my Kingdom unto them—
*
And 1 shall give theta more:
My Spirit strong on them shall come*
In blessings to abound,'
When Satan's power is overturn’d,
And I have chabid him down.
Then men maysay from day to day,
" We benefits receive,
u Strongfrom our God, whathehath said-*
*
*His words we do believe;
*
*He loads us here, as doth appear-—
. “ Our Bibles here are true;
* We know the Spirit cannot err— , ,
“ Bring alLbefore our view:
“ Our Bibles here we see them clear,
*
€This Promise made at first,
4
4And now die mystery we see clear,
4
4How plain the truth must burst—
4
4On Satan’s head, as she hath said,
4
4It must be laid by she £
4
4Because by Man ’twas never doiie—
*
, 4
4Adam at first, we see,
* Cast it on God, who frit the rod,
, 4
4And suffer’d here for Man;
4
4And David here did so appear,
•*To cast it back oh them.
4
4But now from she we plain do see,
. 4
4She cast the whole on Hell; ,
4
4Cab we appear in conscience here
4
4Her wisdom to condemn,
4
1When for our good we know she stood,
“ Though Man blam’d her at first*
* And to her weakness all allude*
4
4Though he as weak was cast ?
”
Did he appear more strong than hef ?
. Was he not soon betray’d ?
But was his justice then as clear*
Tq cast it on my head?
Se now let Man the trial stand,
And answer from thy word; ,
How they’ll appear to answer here,
Still to condemn their God?
They’vestill blam’d Manin ail they’vedonty ,
And David they blaipe here;
They judg’d it cruelty in Man
To speak in words severe;
But now ’tis come to thy weak hand,
Thou speak’st a different way;
Then how can men the whole condemn f .
Unless they boldly say— '
44 ’Tj$ on our God we wish the rod*
44 For ever to remain :
Q
. O F 'TH E YBAliMS* i 2 l
Digitized by Google
' 4
4We wish not to avenge his Blood %
“ On Satan’s head nor Man.y
“ No ; blasphemy we wish to see -
. ^ 4
4Against his holy Nam e;
4
4We do not wish for to be free
“ From Satan’s cursed chain.*’
Then surely I, who dwell on high,
* Like David must appear,
. To be their fatal enemy,
Unless they’ll answer here—
“.By thy weak hand we wish to stand— '
4
4The Woman’s pleading’sjust: „
W e cannot wish the curse on Man,
, “ Nor wish our Saviour cast,
4
4Such grief to bear as he did here,
4
4And ne’er avenge the deed 5
4
4The Woman’s pleading, we see clear,
“ Brings all on Satan's head. ,
44 Then like the first we see the last—
4
4Our God we now see true:
4
4He made.the Woman at the first,
• v 4
4And said he this would do,
“ A helpmate here for Mail t’ appear—
4
4He was not good alone;
4
4And from our Bibles we see clear—
. 4
4Could it be good in Man
4
4To cast the blariie, as by Adam done, ‘
“ The Serpent’s guilt to free ?
4
4And David here there’s few will clear,
4
4To praise the curse of he, *
4
4So strong on Man to have it come— *
4
4His anger there went deep.
4
4And now we see a different way *
“'The W oman here doth break: .
4
4W e now see alljo in d with the Fall—
“ Then how can we complain ?
“ If werefuse the W oman’s call,
' “ For wishing to free man, .
4i Then we must blame, ourselves toshame,
“ Our Bible to condemn, # ■
4
4If God a Helpmate made of her,
4
4And in the volume come, ’
4
4As Written there for to appear,
“ His words for to make good; *
“ His.Fathers will for to fulfil, ' '
■ 4
4And in her weakness stood
“ A help for Man—shall we condemn,
. “ Because he doth appear .
4i To prove at last his word at first,
. “ And be our Helpmate here ?
4
4The stronger come the weak to bind,
In hand and heart to he ? .
4
4That the strong man he now may find,
4
4And may Ihs fetters $ee ? .. - ’ • ~
122 TRUE EXPLANATIONS QP THE BIBLE#
Digitized by Google
123
* Thou gh strong toman we knowhe’s come,
“ And us in sorrow bound; *
" The stronger here will now appear—
“ Then let his works he crown’d,
“ To bind the whole that caus’d the Fall—
“ From Satan's arts it came:
“ Our God and Saviour now we ll call,
“ That he may chain him down.”
So thus let Men the trial stand,
And I’ll stand strong for ail;
But if they’ll not, I’ll tell their lot,
That down they all must fall.
So I'll go back as thou hast wrote,
And bring it to the first: ’
The second Psalm shall now be known, *
In truth and power shall burst; '
The Heathens here shall surely fear, *
And all the earth shall see,
That to th,e ending now't is come,
That my Name prais’d shall be .
Froifc sea to sea, l now do sajj;
And so from shore to shore,
I’ll bring my blessings down to men,
That wait die truth to hear.
For all to see it so shall be,
I’ll make the wars to cease,
When I have gain’d the Victory
111bring a lasting Peace; .
In every land it so shall stand—
Then see my Bible true,
I’ll break the Bow, they all shall know,
That doth in war pursue;
In sunder here i’ll cut the spear,
And so it down shall tall;
And a$ a God I’ll send the rod,
Till I have conquer'd all.
Then I’ll be known a God to come,
And bring my Glory here; ‘
Exalted then i’ll be bv men,
That do me love and fear; •
Because the Earth when 1 bring forth
A Paradise for Man,
I know that they will worship me,
And in MY T emple come,
With praises great, without deceit,
When harmony abounds;
And rig hteousness together n eet
And lo ve in every sound ^
Will then begin, the hearts ot Men,
That now the T ruth embrace,
They’ll say that all is .joined sweet,
And Man return the* Kiss:
That is my W ord, that’
s on record,
They will embrace it here,
. kOP THE PSALMS.' .......
Digitized by Google *
And say, 44 With pleasure now we see
44 The truth in all is clear.
44 Burnt offerings here they did appear*
44 We find they did not do;
«
«Their sacrifices none can clear*
44 For Solomon, we know,
u He offer'd up, but all did drop-—
44 The Beasts, we see, were slain;
*
*But still in Hell the Beast doth swell,
44 And there he doth remain,
** Till Christ shall come to be our King,
44 And then destroy the Foe:
*4 Lo, in the volume of the Book*
44 We know’tis written so; *
•‘That hedid come, his blood wasslaiq"—
«t
But must his blood stop there?
N o; in the Spirit, I'll maintain*
1 must again appear,
" M y Fathers will for tofulfil.
The Helpmate at the first;
And then you'll find my avenging heel
Must on the Serpent burst.
For Fll make good, as first it stood*
The Promise in the Fall
Will bring at last, as first was plac'd^
I now do tell you all.
Another day, to thee 1say,
The Psalms 1 1
1all go through:
And thou mav’st ponder in the way|
Thy heart W ell do know,
Like Oavid s here it did appear*
Because 1 plac’d it so,
For thou to live in faith and fear*
That thou like him might go;
Sometimes went on, thy taith was strong*
Reiving on thy God ; *
Anotherilav in tears did say,
In bye-paths thou hast trod.
So just like him thy life hath been*
But not in sin appear’d;
Became by me thy heart, they’ll see^
Was always guided here;
For when I come in Spirit strong*
The carnal Man must die\
So ’tis hy thee, all flesh may see,
Thy history doth not lie;
The truth is shewn, to me ’tis known^
And so I’ll end it here, ' /
Vntil, 1 ‘say, another day,
My Spirit shall appear. '
I will reason with thee on the morrow,**'
Here ends Tuesday night, Oct. 2, 1804.—All take^
trom Joanna Southcott’s mouth,
......... J a n e T o w nley.
H4 TRUE EXPLANATIONS Off THE BIBLE;
Digitized by l e
105
09 T1TE 'BSJl&M*,
Wednesday morning, October 3* 1804.
On the Tuesday night, Joanna felt a heavenly
joy, and said {the was obliged tp keep back
what she felt in the explanations of the Psalms,
or her eyes would have been drowned in tears of jo y ;
and the feelings of her heart too great to bear, to see
in what a clear and beautiful manner the Psalms
were explained. But in the night she was distressed
with dreams—and dreamt that she lay upon the floor
dying; and her mouth was almost cleaved together ;
hut she awaked and found it a dream. She then
went to. sleep again, and dreamt that she was dis­
puting with many people about her writings. They
told her she was prophesied of in the Psalms to be av
false. Prophet. She asked them where ? and-said,
if they could point it out and shew her ,where it
waiin the Psalms* she would give up her writings.
In this confused manner she awaked in the morn­
ing, and found her spirits •greatly oppressed ; her
heart seemed swelled too big for her body; and all
her j|c»y and happiness seemed fled. Her head felt
its though it wa$ filled with rivers of water; but can­
not shed a tear. So that she is how jealous for her­
self, whether she was not in a sin, to keep back the
feelings of her heart, and amusing herself with non­
sense, because she would not discern the beauty of
the Psalms, in what wondrous and clear manner
they were all explained ; and how true and clear the
Psalms stand for the fulfilment of C h r is t ’s K in g -
rom, which she tried to stifle, when she was giving
the lines in the evening, fearing the joy of its being
at band would be too great for her; and in the
morning she awoke with a load too great for her to
hear. And now her enquiry is— Lord, let me know
my transgression,' and wherein I have offended!
When she opened her Bible in the morning, it was at
Psalm xl. She cast ter eye on ver. 2— He brought
jne up also put of an horrible pit, out of the miry
Digitized by Google
clay, and set my feet upon a rock, and established
my goings. He hath put a new song into my moyth,
•even praise unto our God ; many shall see it, and
fear, and shall trust in the Lord.
THE ANSWER OF THE LORD.
“ Now, Joanna, I shall answer thee. The sha­
dow to thee is the substance to the nation. I do not
blame thy amusing thyself to keep back the ponder-
ings of thy heart; because I know, if the eyes of thy
understanding were. clearly opened, and thou dra­
pernedst clearly the days that are come, and gave
thyself up to the fulness of joy, it would be more
than thou couldest bear., to go through all my la­
bour. But though I do not blame thee, I brought
this shadow upon thee, to bring it to the nation. If
they say like thee, “ We will amuse our ourselves
“ in any worldly nonsense, to keep ourselves from dis-
“ cerning the t r u t h . If it be so, we will not see
“ it \ neither will we discern it ;*therefore.we are re—
tc solved never to see the Truth, nor to believe it,
ff nor attend to things that are for our eternal hap-
*
• piness. If they are so, they are too great for usj
“ therefore we are determined not to discern them,
“ So we will amuse ourselves in vanity and pleasure,
“ that are of this world, to stifle the whole.” Then
I tell thee their pleasures and amusement will turn,
like thine, into the greatest heaviness and sorrow.
For if they will not delight themselves in the joy of
•m y K in g d q m , they shall feel the sorrow that is ap­
proaching ; for their worldly amusements will bring
sorrow upon them, too great to bear: for if they-
refuse the joy of the one, they shall feel the sorrow
pf the other.
Sq.now from thee the Type they’ll see,
h hastening fast for &ilj
But I the shadow plac’d in thee,
That men^might knpw thei$ call, , *
126 TRUE EXPLANATION'S OP THE BIBLE.'
Digitized byKjOOQle
So now thy dream I shall explain,
And bring it out to Man :
Thou saidst thy joy thou didst keep back;
Fearing thy eyes would run, ^
I say, with joy, for to destroy
T hy perfect labour here ; ^
Because in love thy heart tliou’st prove, _
It was too great to bear
The whole to see, was said by thee—
And all jny words discern;
And thy confusion soon would be
Too great to hear my tongue ;
Or words were spoke, thou fearestthy lot,
Could not them both go through;
Therefore thy joy thou didst keep back—
Then I brought to thy view
A death was near for to appear,
In agonies to come.
And "so your land like thee doth stand, .
I f they this way go on,
To say'like thee—“>we w ill not see
“ Our Bible to appear ;
« That Christ is come the whole to free,
‘ * * ’Twill drown our senses here *
,
«
« So Well go on as we have done,
« And still keep back the whole,” %
Then soon, like thee, their end they’ll see '
In agonies to fall.—
Now I’ll explain the other dream, _
And to the purpose come : *
The people that did dispute with thee
Did wrongly turn the Psalms,
And said that there thou didst appear
A prophet wrong to be
But I shall boldly answer here ; •
And let men answer me,
I f they can say anwther way,
They’ll make the Psalmist good, - ,
It was not David’sprophecies,
The way that I aliude.
The Psalmist here then let them clear
The whole before their view ;
And let men answer when and where
They’ll prove the Psalmist true 5
Or how’t can come as plac’d by man,
Then I'll give up the whole? «
.
There’s not that earthly man can stand
To prove my words must fall;
That f shall say to thee this day—
The lines for all go deep.
Thy sorrows I shall take avray,
And bring thee from the pit
O f horror here that d.d appear:
Upon the rock thou’ltbe;
bF TH E PSALMS.
Digitized by Google
I t s TRUE EXPLANATIONS OF TH E BIBLBv
And so thy feel I’ll ever keep# ,
Thy standing is in 14E. . '
I’ll take thee from the mire ana day*
That is so strong in Man;
I’ll guide thee in the perfect wayfc
And thou shalt ever stands
To praise my name the end fcbafl cdnMt
And thou thy God shaltbless. .
The liars I shall all unthrone;
Though many do profess
They trust in me, I plain do $ee*
And yet they turn aside, ^
And trust in lies—I’ll not disguise*
The field is open’d wide, ,
I say, for all to judge the call, -
My Bible to go through;
And strong in Spirit how I call.
That every soul shall know.— .
So, from thy dream, let men contend
To prove thou’st plac’d it wrong
Then they must say the same by
As they by thee have done— ,
4
4 Our Bible here we now will clear •
4
4 No prophecies can be, -
v
4
4 For him in Spirit to appear,
4
4 The nations all to free.” .
Then I’ll appear to answer here,
.As thou didst say before, '
My Bible I will aU give up,
If men can prove it here—
^he second Psalm has ever come*
The heathens ior to free;
When did I govern every land ?
Then let Men answer me,
When it was done, be spoke by Mart f
But this they cannot ao.—
The secrets of the L ord are coirie,
That every soul shall know,
For to reveal and not conceal,
The end for all draws near;
The covenant is come to Man,
That I shall now make clear.
So Men discern how I do warn,
And weigh my Bible deep,
You’ll find the end fbr all is come***
The second Psalm shall break*
1 say, for all: ’tis I did call
And visit at the first:
In ninety-two, thou well dost know,
I told thee so’t should burst.
Now mark all lands,, how they do standi
In tumult and in war $
And I do say to thee this day,. _
Much stronger Twill appear^
Digitized by Google
i; top THX PSALMS;’ ' " •
TilUVe brought tom, they nil shall know*
The nations, like my word ; _t.
And then the gleanings men may shew, '
'Hiat they will turn to God. :
l nen ill 11
1free from misery; f /
Theirswords in sunder break *
And then the spear, they need not fear*
; l shall in stHidef cut - . . *
' Then Men with me in peace shall be5
For I’ll enjoy them all, ’
That now in heart will turn to m i ;
But know, the reU must fall *
Fbr111 put! olit their eVdryname* *
.. They shall no longter stand.— -
But evermore can men appear,
T o answer my demand,
To feay ’twas done in anydand > ' ’
' Then how can men appear,
To prove my Bible true noth stand*
If I the truth don’t clear ? -
So how 1 call, to warn them all,. ,
The heathens HI destroy*
That will hot fted, and t\irn to me—
. For man I’U now injoy,
That fcoks to me the truth to see,
My Bi4le to appear.
The eliding, every soul will see,
For Man is drawing near * ^ ,
For now, like thye, they shalTsce^
^My SpiRit it is comet ;
^Andthe destroying enemy
I’ll now destroy fyr Man. *
Because the dnd ’tWas'my intend ’
T obringkis fkin herd* 1
His vice is drawing to an end,
Though he doth strong appear.
Perpetually* I now dd say,
He’s working here with men, ,
Their innocence/or to betray—
>But long beiC&hrtot stand. ’
*.My Bible through I now sbaltg<u ;
. And will fulfil the whole: ,
‘ I’ll bring the eilding of the Foe,
And that he’ll surely know;-^- •
t So4Hrcv see clear the 1*S4MrixsT here'
‘And thou go to the end ; ,
Then the New Sdbg shall all appear; *
:
. For now "tis mjr ifrtend,, , -
jtfew Songs of praises shall begin............. %
' k k sdy, in every hedrt, ^ ‘
" T haufehm v fciNhDdM for to win— ^
Satan, shall fyel the daft, # \ -
, That hd oti Man hath brought so
l . $0 tracesnayBible through:
U S
HVJ\ >
ll o' ■J
, - I ‘ „
R
Digitized by Google
ThcP&ulitn wrtrfor a M d c n ^ •'
And Soagrtagin aaett.
Nqwbferel we tie mindof the*,
Thou’st poader'd.to theend:
That different Psalm*there sutelyW*-.
Nowlet th,ythoogfets be peoa’d.’' - '
From the ponderings of Joanna’s heart, in read­
ing the Psalbns, she took ^notice bow'-much they
changed after they came to Psalm cxvit—O praise
the Lord, all ye nations, praise him all ye people.
For his mercifiil kindness is great toward us : and
the truth of the Lord errdureth for ever. Praise ye
the Lord. Then followetb, Psalm cxviiu how all is
to praise the Lord :—The house of Israel, and the
house of Aaroft, now say his mercy endureth for
ever. Ver. 16, 17, 18—The right hand of the Lord
is exalted : the right hand of the Lord doeth vali­
antly. I shall not die, but live., and: declare the works
of the Lord. The Lord hath chastened me sore : but
he hath not given me over unto death. Now this is a
prophecy, by my judgment, of the Kingdom o f
Christ, at hi's second coming: for he was chastened
;Sore; and though he was put to death by. man, yet
the Lord did not give him Ov6r to that death ; for
his’ body did not see the grave-, neither did the
holy one see corruption ; but he arose again from
death, perfect in his own body, to declare to his dis­
ciples the wondrous works he should do at his
second com ing. So tins;appears to me the pro­
phecies of D avi®r in Ps'ahn cxviii. Then, if we
follow to Psalm cxix. it go.es.on to .achange: of man.
wishing tp come to a perfect .knowledge of God.
W eigh the Psalm deeply through. Ver. 103. 105-
How stoeet are, thy words unto my taste l yea sweet­
er than honey to my mouthi!" Thy word is a lamp
unto my feet, and a lighiim to my path* Here Da­
vid goes through-with a full desire to edme to the
perfection o£.Gqd ; and complainihg of,every thing
that kept him from God.'But he saya^-sMy lips shall
utter praise, when thoujliast taught me thy statutes.
19® TRUE BXELi.KATIOflSSOB THE BIBLE.
Digitized by Google -
• T «r ttwriAXM a. • v :? 'Aftl
Mer. 17 i. Then D a v id goes oft to shew the hap­
piness of those who are ii) favour with Oeo, in Psalm
cxlv. 4— One generation shall praise- thy works to
another, an^'!snall;?d|it^re thy."eighty acts. Fer»
11, 12. 21— Thay«halkspeak<4the otORV of thy
k in g d o m , ^ 4 talk of ^To make known
to the sons of mep his luightytafifs,' and the glorious
majesty of his kingdom. '■
■
‘M y mbuthsh&ll speak the
praise of the Locd : ant}. letalijSesh blfss his holy
name forever and ever. •Psaim cxlvii.14, 1 5 — He
.maketh peace^in thy Kinders, apd' fiRetti thee with
the finest of the. wheat* He aendeth ifowh his com-,
mandment upon_?arth *'tyisword fahnetfi very swift­
ly. Psalm cxlix.j,, 2— Praise ye the Lord. Sing
unto the Lord a new song, and his prat$fr in the con­
gregation of saint$.,’ jLjet Isfael rejoice rin him that
maJehim : let the children ofZionbegoyful in their
-King-i pffhe Psalpnj it appears
Jao^tfgfpr tl^e,k1n-^dom,pfOurfst^w ^ h ^ e hfP
pff^hcayipgbf; Andy/jjiphhe.jn spiriM ?^
fp^ .asbq P W e4 to be fr^d frpt¥ wer*
«ia?rr¥»4 hptp ijoin wi^h.I>a.vip, hand
THE ANSWER OP THE SPIRIT; Li r
« Now, Joaiina^r
Hi«i'Il ,aDwfer> ' - •
A» thy pondering heart appears: -
>r'^
As my Spirit waswith David*
Perfect so* I>ttlltbee here,
It iawilh theep fclLflefAAidfseew ^
My words to f)y:«br0ad>9 .■ f r"f
And cpitmiaiulmefatsj all shali see/-T
Are given firdm A y Ofcb : 1* 1
That on the earth,may.all Come forth, T
What is my just decred* - - *
An4‘from JdV'Srntiiy nil sbaEktwlw/ A
The words are givento.thee. ^ . '
• So from thePsahna,asthan hast nanitd^
If men wilhweigh them deep,' A
TfatoylP firid itheoPsahns that them hast nam'd*
Must make thy fbettawoop;
Because in thee/ail flesh shall see, * X
1’v.e plac’d my-Sprkit strong* '«• A
As ’twas in David, all may see
These things to me were known; .
■ R 2 . ;
Digitized by
y
"Google
i
- 182 TPUE EX?LAHATI03T'8 07 THE BIBlBii
r *•: That at thee$d Ldidintead ; ' j* r *
To have them all appear* .
‘ ' ■1 'Though he to sin did Sure begin r
To shame his Maker there; . • ' i ,
Byt pow, at last, the Fsalms arepjaod, ... ^
’ 'A heart so'much like thine— ‘ ‘ • '
Ahd nowthe mysteries 1shall clear, - 'J .1 \
, To?bring it to(
yianjfin^. t :
The thoughts of thee arejoin’d with ki^f
* ' Throughout pay Bible here* f k *
> \ Ta ^ enem^ ^ ?
r> ..
That aid to her appear, + ,
* 1 saV, at first when she W
as cast— - °
- - v
. ■ : ' !Twas Satan caus'dher feh* L ■
„*
;
«, No bhme on me was broughtt^ sh®-* ,, ,?
. ! And now I’ll answer all:
\ . ' My honour here I’ll proveTtclear* , : ,a
. For to,avenge h?r plowi
Because that she doth honour me, 4
^ • And that you all must kn<*y< '• s* •
4; ;i) ; r jNow as the verse before thy*view, ,L
|; , * ;r
. Thy pondering heart I see;
1 But not like Man to have it come, 1 *
‘
It:.jj: Thenjp m IBjodawith thee.”— *
: " Psalm elk; 9, i d, As for the head o f those
conajiass tni aboul^ ‘let the iiilschiifbf theftfo#&
tyip$*eovertiiern- 'Let bdnrfng opals fall upo* them :
"leOthem JSe castiotdthe fire ; into deep pits, that
they tise npt tip agairf, £etTnot ap evil speikar^be
established in the earth :1eVil shall hunt thtf violent
man to oyert^fow l(im^ r> . /y
* Now, here within thoudost begin" 1
To ponder from the word. "
The heart of Man to thee’s unknown, \
if he couldwdsh*thd Lord,
Such vengeance take as he did speak, •■
*Tis cruel unto thee; >
But from thepondering* in thy heart,, \
Thou’st wish’d it so to bc^
To fell on hell, as he doth swell
All ages to destroy
As thou’st look'back to see the wreck, .
Man never did enjoy "
A life Ofpeacedid he possess, ,
As SatanVarts were strong.
.* ; Therefore tbeponderingsin thy heart, '
Like David nowthou’lt turn
A diffcrent.wiy, Inow dosay,
And yet thou wish thewholc
Digitized by Google
' : T r o » m . n u w , n • \ t tSS
(Jpt& tte TenpterV M tdlo by,
And in the pit tp fall. 1
Thou wish'd him there, to rise no mope*
To be a plague to M ai;
And Davia* spirit nuwt betbeee,
T o wish*it so to conte* < •*1
Whatever way isjudg’d by thee *
Did m his heart appear.
H cne’er could judge that wicked men. ,
Could all be rooted here,
While Satan's reign1did still remain -
- So strong to work in Man.
The waythat David did eontend, t .
T w asfortheend to come;
And now in thee the end they’ll se*
Thou’st fix’d all to the root, , ^
Tor to destroy the enemy, ' y 1
, . That did tempt her to the firuit, v f , 1
That evil here might strong appear; . ,
But now I’ll cut him down.— ^
A David4
* heart in thee is here,
Though 'tis a different sound \
A difFerentway, I now do say,
Thou'st wish’d to have it so—
That all the evil in the earth
Maybdcast down below;
That is thg thing that brought in sin-*
. By Satan's arts’twas done ;
Ana him thou'st wish’d to overthrow/
Hemlght no longer stand ;
Because that sin hath ever been,
Everfcince Adam'sFall;
Till Satan's cast thou kpow’st ’twill last,
And sorrow bring on all.”
Psalm clxii. 4— I looked on my right hand, and
beheld, but there was no man that would know mo;
NoWhere’sa word thou dost notunderstand*
The,words, of David no map can, command#
What in hit heart heJponder’d arid did pep-*- / ' 1
And; tare's a verse ne'er understood by men. ,
CouldDavid say, tljat no mandid knowhe ? t ,
No: here's a,mystery,! shall answer th ee:,
For I’m the’ mam that no onehere doth know,
That 1 did oome to seek .the overthrow / .
Of the proud Tempter, tjiat at first bejray’d, '
Andbrmg the every guilt upon his head;
But know, by Man l could not do at first;
Becauseon M£ the guilt he surely cast,
To eive the Woman then into his care./ ; .
And so the guilt both her and I did sharpy
But as {he Woman cast it on bis head, ^
And said ’twas the Serpent that had her betray'd;
’ And as the Woman then did cast it there,
Boherund%will dm* the whole toclear,
Digitized by Google
So here's a wy&t&f tbtkti& mm flotiklaww*-.
1 came to die, that he toigktfoci the blow;
Andyetthe wends110naanc’
er understood.
Nor knew my death whichwriy fcr to allude.
That I should"come aad suffer so lor Man,':
And let the Jews so 9trang against its stand,
If that the merteofiny death end.there,
1 ask, my mercies how. they could appear ?
Becauaeibat refage in me they, feond aone;
Nor any refuge djd I And in them?
B
ecause yen know, they eiamourilfbr my Blood—
'hen how my Bible la it understood; <
That all the earth should come and worship me ?
The verse before thee let the Nation «eaH
, .. : , , ( i *
Psalm cxxxviii. 4— All the kings, oftbe earth shall
praise thee, O L o r d , when they hear the words of
thy mouth. ■ ,’„. ‘
« Now, from these words, Ief all answer,
Can they prove ’twas ever, sq£, . .*
Yet if I was DAyiD531^ $ T £ a , t
All his wopls ipust sure copje true; •’
\ Because of ml’
, all flesh$hajj >
Be prophesied before;
And-in the epd ’tis my intend
His every word to clear- ; 4
So here£s the word that’s oq. ;
That now I ’ll make to stand 5 .„* :
It is the H
vord now of the Loftp
Shaiti go througjx every land*
My Bible here 1 now shall <?lear*,,
And it I’ll aH fulfil;
; ' And who© my wondeFt do atpear* . V r \ ’
f , I shall the whole fulfil." *
' v/- <‘ ? : - t '■ ? •;'**' j ' 't , .G' .1
Psalm, cxxxii. if*. to the tnd+~-1 wiRabundantly
bless her _provjsioh : I will satisfy Wr poor with
bread. I will also'clothe her priests with salvation:
and her saints shall shout aloud for joy; . There will
I make the horn of P av in to hud: I have- ordained
a lamp for tnine anointed. His enemies wilji I clothe
with shairie: but upon himself shall bis crown
flourish. . ■• ■ 1 ‘
u Now here again, I say to mefc,
My Bible hone do see: i\
Though k was spoke of Davtd's "
4 It ne’er was done by he; ^ ^
r . , *
. . k *' ^^ v
'~
*
*34 TRUE &XJPCAKATIOTTI 0 9 THK BIBLE*.
Digitized by Google
guthtow that 1,who d>w
allrO
*»hiyh»<
• , | r ,,
W un Duval did compare ; ,
o#ipr/7
fg*i did s a y ^ !
Thm> row d w ^ n i t tiere; ~ ; . , .’"
.
T he boot in me must surely be, .,
To mate the Blossom cpme: 1~ ^
* And hare s,the mod* yotsaiksfciH sea; . » l '
The lamp that must be known* , A
T he a n o in t e d see it sure was >ie,. 4v‘
To tong dime blessings dowi* * * ;>
f
Fro^ D^vinit couldnever,bt» , * . ^ i
& foes for to confound; ; ( \ .t ,
« N07 *tis N f NAME fiiewhciesmdl shame;
1 Od an the $adw shall stand, . . .
When 1appear to govern here,*\
And*reign ihtvety land/ 1 1‘
199
K)0. 106. !74—T hy vfcrtd is true from
the beginnings amd every one of A y righteous judg­
ments eadum fe for ever. Lord, I have hoped1for'
Ay safvatibnr, and done thy commandments. I have-
longed for thy salvation, O L ard; and thy law ir
tty delight. . \
"N aw hatttoM litagfciiifH -eoine; :
The Psalm stand deep' for thee;
And perfect as the words are penn’d,
Thy heart I fctiow to bet
Thon from the first ! now shall burst,
From tno beginning here;
And at theiasf when all is cast;
. They’d find/myjudgments clear.
Then righteousness, in perfect peace,
For ever shall endure; '
And from thePsalmsi that thoNhagt penn’d;
My covenant is sure, 1
So now the Psalmist all weigh deep-^-
* Thy life in-it they’ll sec}
Though they deny—Mit is a £«-— .
“ For D a v id ’tis and me-,”
ThOy’ftoWn it true,’before their view;
For David it does stand;
And owp of ;»ie he prophesied?
# But thet they wifi condemn—r
Toaay, that there can ou^ht appear
n A.Prophecy of.the*?. > I.-
Now pen the verse thou’st marked here, „
*’i And thenIll-OnsWer thee.”
1 t
Psalm au 6,,Z»8—I am like a pelican of.the wil ­
derness-: 1 am. like, an owl. of] the desert, L watstvi
Digitized by -oogle
and am as a sparrow alone upon the house top. 1
Mine enemies reproach me all the day j and they
that are mad against me are sworn against me. Vert
18. 16.22— This shall be written for the generation
to come: and the people which shall be created '
shall praise the L ord. When the L ord shall build '
up Zion, he shall appear in his g lo ry, when the '
people are gathered together, and the kingdoms, to "
serve the L ord. Psalm c. 5— For the Lord is good; '
his mercy is everlasting; and his truth endureth to
all generations. Psalm xcviii, 1, 2, andpart of ver. '
3— O sing unto the Lord a new song; for he hath
done;marvellous things: his right hand, and his^ ■
holy arm, hath gotten him the victory. The Lord' ;
hath made known, his salvation^ his righteousness .
vhath'he openly shewed in the sight of the heathen. '
All the ends of the the earth haye seen the salvation
of our Qbd. Psahnacm. 11— Light is sown for the. ■
righteous, and gladness for the upright in heart.
Psalm xcvi. 12, 13—
-All the trees of the wood rejoice
before the Lord;; for he cometh, for he cometh to
judge the earth : he shall judge the world with righ •
teousness, and the people,with his truth. Psalntt
xciv. 8, 9..12— Understand, ye brutish among the
people: and, ye fools, when will ye be wise ? H e
that planted the ear, shall he not hear ? He that
formed the, eye, shall Jie not see ? Blessed is the
man whom thou chastened, O Lord, and teachest
him out of thy law. Psalmxcn. 11— Mine eye shall
see my desire on-mine enemies. Psalm xci. 11, 12,
13— For he shall give his angels charge/Over thee,
to keep thee in all thy ways. They shall bear th ee
up in their hands, lest thou dash thy foot against a
•tone. Thou shah tread upon the lion and adder *
.
die young lion and. the dragon shalt thou trample
under feet. Psalm cxiii. 4, 5 ,6 .9 —TheLord is h ig h
above all nations, and his glory above the heavens.
W ho is like uhto the Lord our God—who hum bldth
himself to behold die things that are in heaven, And
+ Digitized by Google
JBfl f RllE EXPLAHAtflOHS OVTHE EIBtE.
. t>F THK BSALMS. " 137
in the earth ! He maketh the barrel woman tot
keep house, and to be a joyful mother of children;'
Psalm cxviii. ^— The Lord taketh my part .witlii
them that help m e: therefore I shall see iny desire
upon them'that hate me. Psalm cxvi. 6, 7—The
Lord preserV^th the simple: 1 was brought low, and.
he helped me. Return unto thy rest, O my soul f
for the Lord hath dealt bountifully with thee.- Psalm
cxi. 10—-The fear of the Lord is the beginning o f
wisdom : a good understanding have all they that do
his commandments: his praise endureth for ever.
Psalm cix. 2, 3>4— For the mouth of the wi'cked and
the mouth of the deceitful are -opened against me :
they have spoken against me with a lying tongue.
They compassed me about also with words of ha­
tred ; and fought against me Without a cause. For
my love, they are my adversaries. Psalm lxxxviii*
15—1 am afflicted and ready to die from my youth
up: while I suffer thy terrors, I am distracted*
Psalm Ixxxvi. 11,12— Teach me thy way, O L ord ;
,1 will walk in thy truth : unite my heart to fear
thy name. I will praise thee, O L ord my G o d ,
with all my heart: and I will glorify thy name for
evermore. Psalm lxxvii. 6r 7—1 will call to my re­
membrance my song in the night: I commune with
mine own heart: and my.spirit made diligent search.
Will the Lord cast off for ever ? and will he be fa­
vourable no more? Psalm Ixxii. i 5, l6— And he
shall live, and to him shall be given of the gold of
Sheba : prayer also shall be made for him continu­
ally ; pnd daily shall he be praised. There shall be
, an hapdful of corn in the earth upon the top. of the
mountains; the fruit thereof shall shake like Le-
banon: and they of the city shall flourish like era$$
of the earth. Psaint lxrx. 6, 7, 8— Let not theriv
that wait on thee, Q L ord G od of Hosts, be
ashamed for rfiy sake: let not those that seek thee
be confounded for my soke, O G od of I sr a el.
Because for thy sakd 1 have borne reproach; shame
Digitized by Google
139 TRUE RXPLAHATroES W THB BIBLE.
hath covered my face. I ambecome AstrangerUnto
my brethren, and an alien onto my mother's chil­
dren.
THE ANSWER OF THE LORD.
Now, Joanna, I Shall answer thee, before thou
goest any further, as thou sayest this has been thy
frequent prayers, that none of those that believe in.
thy writings may cotae to Shame or reproach for
thee. Then here is the Prophecy of the true spi­
rit that is in thee. But from whom came that Spi­
rit upon thee ? Are not. my laws written in thy
heart? And' the manner of thy life is written
in the Psalms.
So now, Joanna, thee I'll answer:
As the Psalms are written here.
Let them know I'm thy sia^ter^ .
Arid thy Spirit did prepare
All to go through, as th6u didst do—»
A.pelican at first.
Because alone, th&f all do know,
* My Spirit here aid burst y
Ana so to man thou didst become
Just likean Owl appear,
That in the desert may be seen—
Thou'dst not one helper here;
• * W hen I began to lead thee on,
Thou perfect stood alone,
Jiist likea Sparran oil thehouse,
To every soul *tis known. :
So all may see the state of thee, . .
Just as my Bible's penn'd:
I lead the Spirit hereof thee—
An.d i-0 the)''1
1find die end,
'Thou didst go on, to me 'tis known,
Sometimes m faith and tear;
' And other times thy faith was gone, *
To sink in cfe^p despair.
Then surely I, wno dwell on high,
Did pluck thee from the-Fall;
; 1 took thee from the mire and day,
, Where men did sink thpe all.
Thy standing sure shall now endure$
* fo r all thy life hath besom.
Just like the Psalms are mention'd here;
Thy writings prove the thing.
W hen men look backon whatthott*stwrote,
They'll see thy feeling breast$
Digitized by Google
When misery andjealousy, '
By men and devil* plac’d
So strong in tboe, thy grief they’ll set,
When 1the whole unfold $
And perfect as the Psalms are here*
The truth will then be told.
But it was l, that dwell on high, ■
That gave theefeith sostrong,
To say thou could’st not shun mine eye,
The whole to me was known.
.So -thou wert clear l must be here,
Or things could not come true;
And as to me thou mad’st thy. prayer,
Mine eye was in thy view,
Th^t I diA see the,grief of thee,
And all thy ways did know;
^V
nd if the things pane not from ms.
Thou judg’d l’d overthrow:
Never like Man thou judg’st M
Yhams, *
That l the whole don’t see;
-Thou judg’st my honour and my fame
Would soon confuted thee;
|f not from Heaven tlte Hues were given.
Thou judgst that all must fall;
.Because that l who dwell on high
Would ne’er support thy call
(So tbou’ai appear, t tell them here,
Just like toe Psalms are pennM;
For I have heard thy every prayer, ’
The way thy heart did bend;
But unto Man 1know thou’rt come
Much like an O vi appear;
The ignoranceof foolish men, '
They so have plac'd the©here.
Sa men may see theLife of thee,
When they have seen the whole;
Just as the Psalms that thou hast pelin’d,
It mutt appear to all.
False tongues appear, you all do hefcr,
With lies thou’rt com|>a*s’d round,
That inthe end to all I’ll dear,
For so it will be found;
The words of man in hatred come*
In malice to proceed ;
•But i shall prove it in the end— ' .
Like me, they’d make thee bleed;
As they did M
Eon Calvary, 1
If they could so api^ear:
They hate that ait without a cause;
A ndfa r thp have appear
In malice great, i»U of deceit— -
But see thy love to Man,
Whatsufiermgshde forMan tbou'stbear!
Andjudge thy written hand;
S 2
: tfFTH B M A MM,
Digitized by Google
If not from m e thy writings be, .
Thy hazard must be great,
The truth to know if it was so— -
In thee there’s no deceit;
But bad all been in a straight line,
My answer could not go,
*Thyself to free, as I do say> ’
The world like m e don’t know.
When jealousy and misery t
Alarm’d thy faithful breast, '
I knew the pondering heart of thee, •
How in tne flames thou’d’st cast.
Thou saidst, the whole, if wrong did fall,
• And so I thee shall clear.
Then let thy love be known to all, .
How thou didst persevere;
The truth to know, how thou didst go
To put in every hand;
• And when m y P r o m ise I did make, -
To ask m e, and command, . .
Then let them see the words of thee—
Thou ask d it for Man’s good;
As Satan is your enemy, '
Let all be understood—
No grandeur here thou wish’d to share,
But to adore thy God, .
And Man’s redemption wish’d to hear.
Arid have my purchase Blood
The lands to free from misery,
And happiness possess: 1
This is the perfect love of thee,
Though men do wound thy breast
' Then sure ’tis wrong what they have done -
Thy love and pity see,
Which men in rage and fury turn, .
Justiike the Psalms to he.
Unjustly here do all appear,
^ For cause they can have none,
in rage to bum, as men do come,
Thy love for to unthrone.
But as from Hell the whole do swells
The standard thou’st plac’d there}
And wish his Fait to be from all, "
Let men in conscience clear *
W hat they have done, I say,/in Man;
They cannotjustify *
, To ill requite, thy love to slight;
In pity men should lie,
If they believ'd thou wert deceiv’d, •
* Such hazard for to run; •
, They all must see thefbefit ofthee
Throughout in love to Man;
s. . M^fhen pity they should shew to tbety
And notthy heart condemn. * '
140 *BUE EXfct'AJfrATJtfRS OP THE BIBLE.
Digitized by Google
r m
But Til appear to answer here;
In lying t<?nehe» they’re found,
'W ith ma&e they’can never clear,
I say, in any sound.
That they do come in malice strong-*
But I shall take thy part,
With thosethat are thy helpers here*
And join'd in hand and heart.
So, in the end, ’tis ihy intend
To shew my Bible clear;
And those that are thy every friends.
They shall -with joy appear,
I say; to see the mind of m e—-
Thy enemies shall fall.
And here’s another mystery,
I from the Psalms shall call:
Humble I'm come for to look down;
And view the things below;
The barren w o m b shall now be found
Injoyful heart to go;
Hen CHIl DREN tee injot/ shall be,
How they are born of God :
And Til destroy their enemy,
That vex them with his rod;
Then glory here shall great appear, *
; And men in joy may sing,
vThat the n ew song to ail is come 5
For Jacobs God and Kino
Is come to all to free the Fall.
And I shall answer here,
And from this Psalm the whole Til call;
I ask liow men can clear
The words are penn’d are judg’d to m<Mp
When I did come below? '
But can they say I then did reign,. -
In power these things‘to shew ?
I tell them n o : it was not so;
Nor there’s no man can clear
That peace to "Man it then did coma;
No : wars and tumults were "
Continued then, you know, by men,
Oppression stillwent on:
Aad to this day, you' all must say,
It is in every land.
Then Can you clearthe Psalm that’s’here,
In blessings to abound?
, I tell you no : ’twas never 90; ;
' These things were never found
To be in Men, since here I came-* '
And m e tkey did destroy :
You see the Jews in every land/ ' *
What^peacerdo they enjoy ?
And as to Mem, see how they sta n d i
in peace do they appear}
Digitized by GOogle
Then *tU
. m i p i J nrn$t<mto *
MyfoM? 4U to *U*r}
The^rUcoBM! d*wp, it sh*Ube frrabd,
Like rein upon t^ve gre§s :
Andjpe^ mytutssiKes shallbe &uad,
And peeff' shall %
Upossess.
$*jpMY P M skill all be seen,
Thf l<4G
i|T*O
V
6flourishherb;
And pegce ab^D^nishall befcumL
That over shall endure. •
Tbs*np*Mr tbe^r eU shall see, .
Shall lick t\e (fast Man ;
. fo r so the Serpent'sdem shall hffc
He to that end eb%U ew e. '
Then matt lie kings fk&r present* M pgn
To buiUl MY BQUSJe *rwp'% ‘
Apdrn&
ruwtxm worship M
S, .
_ And all shall find it true;
The needy here their grief 111 clear.
And all the ppojd’
iTfree; •
Tor great my bountyshallappear,
That every soul shftUsee; .
I shall redeem from bell end rj>i .
From their deceitfuljo* ; ./ .
I’ll make them precious in my sight;
My b^oop shall cleanse them so!
So, as I live, let w ane grieve—
You know I rose again.
And sftid to Man that 1should come, .
My every cause maintain* *
$0 friends appear the.shadows here;.
For presents they do sead:
It is MY won* to carry on ; '
A ndl shall stand tbeir friend:
And thou dost know, thetnuhisa^
That prayersfor me art made* .
To bring my KwenotM down beiotf-*
0 men ! you’re all misled*
That now do say another way,
1 did it at the first. •
J* vas not so, ypu all do knew;
Nor did my glory buiat
$0 strong on Man, as in this Psalm,'
That all is mentioned thene; .
. Rpt rtow^ I say, in every land '
My glory shall appear -
Jfandful^f wheat* yCu'll find it epeit,
Or else. I my« of corn; *
' Though ’tis butfew, thou well ^e&tknow,
That new wish to be bom,
So strong in me the whole to aeet 7
But yet theywillwtoeauy
♦Though with ^handful in the ^laind;.
I did begin in peace \ -. ■: 1
...
* The peace in the beginning of 1805.
f i t TRUE Of THE BIBLE
Qigitized by Go'ogle
. . OP 1k*B T9MAtK ' V M l
. . . , , * f
To tell.MY Mitfto, thatfcrnr tkriimk* -
My kingdom is at hand}
ta k e Lebanon, they mil will find.
My handful now.mitt Hand
To ffatke the whale, till men will fall, •^
My kingdom wish tv see 9
And say—“ we’re guilty one and all*
*• To be her enemy,
9
4If Chris? is come for totperforoifc ..
4
4The prophecies are here ;
•*And tfo the it Must come
4
4T o plead HEfc moftfisB there,
tt Thattif thefirst it so waspfec^-**
*
< Then why do men dispute ?
* If blessings great «>n Man is cast,
MThen Christ ihnst strike therodt ;
4
4Then cities here might •wellappear
4
4In prospect.tQ.beJoy
“ And like the grass to flourish here,
•«When Christ thewhole hath crown’d ;
** Ttyenhe'M ctidurefor ctieftAort
“ Like Jacob's God and King*
* We never did discern it here,
•‘ The way he’d bringail in c
4
9Our Bibles true kdfereour view
4
1We ne’er expect*) to ?ee ;
4
4That Christ should come our FRiNCR and CIN0,
9
4All nations worship *H
t.
4
4Twas never sow we well do knew*
4
4Yet so ’tis said shall come j ,
k‘ And yet the woman we deny, '
^ Our Bibles to condemn j
*
* Because that clear theycan’teppear*
4
4The way that all hath stood;
* W e know, the Lord most fnturfere,
•‘ If he doth make all,good-
4
4Then all will bless, when they possess
•• The blessings are in store ; '. ‘
V And Satan’s arts must surely miss,
•* When he can tempt no more. .
•*Then well we know thatjoy may Bow,
4
4When Christ that is the Ynffi,
4
4And all the brancjups he’th plac’d so*
•• To have his heart and mind.
9
4Then will begin the praise to him,
Arid all will bless his Name; ■ #
M They’ll say from Israel’s God and King
9
4too all these blessings come.”—
50 Men will praise the end o f daYU,
As Adam prais’d the first,
When the woman I did create $
For so the end will burst: ’
But standing sure for to endure,
Will be the state of Man;
Digitized by Google
And *he.irtemptations will be o’ef,
Theway I’ve laid wy plan.—-
So I’ll end heieand say no more.
Until another day. • >
Thy pondering heart doth now appear} -
And thoughts within thee lay—*
* **Oh, ,that to all it so did fall,
- u From Adam at the firat 1
”
Then howinjustice could 1call
To have the Serpent(Cast*
Sofarfrom Mem as shall bedone f
No: this couldnever be :
I know thy pondering heart do run
And wish the whole tofree /
Here ends. Wednesday night, October 3,
IA4 BXPfcASfAXIO*S OP-THfi BlfiLfl,
THE 'PROVERBS AND WISDOM OF SOLOMON.
Thursday> Oft. 4 , 1804*
Thursday morning Joanna dreamt thatshe saw a
house tumble down in the same mariner aSyou might
see '&chest-of-drawers fall, without any part of it
being' broken, so that you might raise it'up again,
and place it as it was before ; and perfectly so the
house fell, and they raised it up, and placed it as be­
fore ; and Joanna thought §he went into, the hous#
afterwards, and went up into many of the roorps;
and it stood-upon a solid foundation ; blit she told'
. the master,1she was afraid it would tumble again
but he told her it would not. \
Thursday evening. I Joanna have finished read­
ing through 'all the works of Solomon; and as I am
commanded .to draw rri’
y own judgment, before any
answer is given me, I shall now draw it perfectly to
the ponderings of my own heart, whether I draw it
right or wrdng; for I cannot deceive the Lord;
therefore I shall not try to draw my judgment with
man, in reading the Proverbs of Solomon. His ad­
vice is good ; and by his wisdom, in his advice, he
foretelleth the end,of his children; what their evils
would bring upon them, for the punishment that
Digitized by Google
: VisDoii 6p Solomon 145
he said would follow sin, followed the generation of
Solomon's children ; which is a type for all mankind ;.
as it appeareth to me, that although Solomon was ^
endowed with so much wisdom, I Cannot say his .,
heart was like David’s, neither was his repentance ^
like David’s, So that from my judgment, wisdom
alone will not do, without a sihcere desire o.f the
heart, to have the laws of the Lord written there.
'The wisdom Of God is ohe thing, because he is in- .
finite in 'goodness and mercy, as well as infinite in j
wisdom and truth. Now, from my observation of
SolOmon, the wisdom of Got) woiild not dp for Man
till his heart was renewed to the likeness of the Lord,
in that state of innocence that he was at first created
in ; as from my judgment, David, without this a-
bUndance of wisddm that Solomon possessed, had a
more humble and penitent heart, and deeply repent­
ed of the sins he had committed; but Solomon’s .
complaining is, that all was evil and vanity, of the
sins that he had committed; but be does not repent,
like David, in his writings, whatever he did in his
heart} and yet, by his wisdom, his counsel was no- ,
^>le ; and by his wisdom his prophecies, to me, ap­
pear deep of the kingdom of Christ. And here
I shall begin from the Wisdom of Solomon, viii. 8—
IF a man desireth much experience, she knoweth
things of old, and corijectureth aright what is to come;
and can expound dark sentences; she foreseeth signs
and wonders, and the events of seasons and times.
Per. 14—I shall set the people in order, and the na­
tions shall be subject unto me. Chap. vi. 1)— For the
very true beginning of her is the desire of discipline ;
and the care Of discipline is love; and love is the
keeping of her laws; and giving heed unto her laws
is the assurance of incorruption ; and incorruption
tnaketh us near unto God : therefore the desire of
wisdom bringeth to a kingdom. In chap. v. 4-—yVe,
foots accounted his life madness ; and his end to be,
without honour,; how is he numbered among the
T
Digitized by Google
children of God, and bis lot is am pngthtsaints !
Ver. 17— Hi? shsdl fa.Ke.to him bis jealousy for £ont*
piete armour, and make the treatyre hjs weapon for C
the revenge of hi« enemies; h? shah put on right- *
edusness as a breast-plate,.and true judgment instead s
of a helmet.. He shall take h o lin g for ay invincible i
shield, Chap. iv, 15, 14, IS. 18, IQ— He being ti
made perfect in. a short time,fulfilled a long time 1. for ?
..
his sOul pleased the Lordtherefore hasted, he tA «
i
take him away from among the ,wicked- This th e e
people saw and understood it’not j neitbei^Iaid they up 1
1
this jy their minds, that hi?grace apd mercy is with hia ri
saints, and that he hath respect unto his chosen. T hey ! k
shall see hin\ and despise him ; but God shalllaugh n
them to sewn. For she shall rend them apd cast r
them down headlong; they shall be speechless; and n
he shall shake them from the. foundation. Chap, e
iii. 7, 8,. 9 .1 3-1-I0 the time of their visitation, they $
shall shine, and run to arid,fry like sparks among the. m
stubble. They shall judge the nations,' and have do- a
minion over the pebple; and the L o r d shall r e i g i c (j
for Ever ; they that put their trust in him shall un» a
derstand the truth. Blessed is the barren that is un- m
defiled; she shall be fruitful in th.e visitation of souls* r
Chip. i. 2. 7— Port he Lord will be found, of them that t
tempt him not: and sheweth himself unto such as do $
not distrust him. The spirit of the Lord filleth 3
the world : and that which containeth all, things hath t
the knowledge of the voice.— Now, ag I am ordered. ;
i
to draw my own judgment, first from the Wisfam e f
Solomon: fop that wisdom, Vyhjch Solomon speak* t
of, to have all power to reign and rule, and tp sub- )
due all things to himself, cpifld never be in an earthly
object, as to fallen man ; it must allude, to, the know­
ledge and power of Gon, in and through his SoNy
in the verses here mentioned fpr, in chap,, vii, 35,.
2 6 ,27. he says—-She is tiie rrrath o f the pow er o£ .
G o t), and a pure influence flowing from the. gj-ort.
bfthe ALMicHTv : therefore can no defiled, thin^.
14(5 TRUB KXJ!^ANA,X10|J5 Q T.TH R BIBLK.
Digitized by Google
w vsbom o p cafeouras. 1*7
6 U idlo her. ForsheiS the brightestssof evferkwiHg
light*. jthe :dnsp&tted mirror of the power Of
& Q » .y and the image of his goodnete; and being
h a t . One*' ishe. can do a ll.things: --and >rem&ih*»
i*gS» herself, she. maketh all /things new. Now
Muaw&$tth« wisdom of Solomon, that die L ord had
jgiTea him* to kndwland understand. what the L
>
6 Rb
should do* by' Hi»/Wfi»ooid in,tie m i Nowfrom tfty
no man can drxlfiistand, or believe, that
Mi thin 'wisdom, knowledge,: power,rgdodnetes, ifed
truth, was. i>n Solomon, or in anymaft, tOaceorW-
r
lish these things.; for SdLqmon sahh of himself-*-*-
'mjrrelfam a ntortal man, like tdadl, and the -ofh-
spring o f him, that Was first made of the earth >Theft
ke cannot say that ie is entering into holy eoulfc, to
Make thcnt friends of God, and prophets; and thfit
Vice shall ndt prevail against wisdom. This could
cfevfec be alluded bo Man : it can be rrolre, buit the
eofwsa df Odn in the wisbom of his Sow, who W
dS
without sin unto fealVatron 5 achd in him was wisdom,
gboddesv and truth : whoih it is clear that die Jeafe
dOuhtbd his life fasdndssy and his end to btf withftSt
honour; bdt howdnratthey appear, When he cottitetti
again in Snesx, majbbty, and glory, to p u to h
righteousness as a breast-plate; and true Judgment
instead iof.,a helmet, and his severe wralh shall hfc
sharpen for a sword, and the world shill fight With
him , against the unwise ? Then may they cry out,
when they begin to see his power bringing in his
OUORIOU8 KiNODost of peate—“ HOW:is he num­
bered among the children Of GoD, Ind his lot arttdh^
the saints 1 Therefore we bt'red from the df
truth} and the light of rightfcoltsn ss his not-shined
tmtx> u s; and the Sow of righteousness rdse not upoh
us.: W e wearied Ourselves ift the ways Of Wickeds-
n e ss; but the ways of the Lord we have hdtknown'.
W hat hath pride profited us ? O r what good havfe
riches, with our vaunting, brought uS?” Ntalr this
appeareth to me, that the wisdom of Solomon was
T i n ' \
Digitized by V j O O Q L C
*
given to. him. to discern the l a st d a y s • th ou gh
none of the com mentators ever placed it bo? n d th e t
-is the name of.Christ even mentioned in the contents
o f the chapter.,, .Sa it appearfeth to me that-the w is -
-dom o f Solom on, was the1
w isd o m G otr g iv e tiiro,
:concealedfrom the. w orld %
a j.lght shinmgin 'darkness
to m a n k in d th a t now appeareth breaking o u t ; a n d
the true b e l ie v e r s , .thm-rely w holly on th e fu l­
film ent o f the B f b l e , of Christ’s glorious and peaoei-
isble . kingdom, to be-' established, as ; promised,
have already^ .began to fight’ with h im , against
■the unwise, that judge all things w ill remain hs they
itre. But if no change is ever to take place, how can
m en believe changes ever did take place? For die
(World to b e once drowned; the wonders that werfe
done in E g y p t; Sodom and Gomorrah burnt ;'-the
:Jews, that were so long a standing people, cut offtand
^tattered throughout the face of the earth; th e holy
tem ple and Jerusalem destroyed; and the G ospel o f
.Christ brought in. ! N ow as ail these changes have
.taken place, why not. the change take place for the
-jcingdom o f Christ to he brought in t o ’ fulfil the
iL aw and the G ospel ? This is the pondering:of my
iheart.; and are m y thoughts on the W isdom of Sola •
mon \ if J -am wrong, the L ord reprove-me, apd
-phew me ithe error o f m y ju d gm en t: aitd now l am
.Whiting foi his answer, 1 ' Z1
^ THE ANSWER OF THE LORD.
“ And now, Joanna, I- shall answer thee.; The
preparation of thy heart,; add the answer ,of thy
tongue, are both from the Lord ; and no more, than
men have discerned the wisdom of Solomon, no
more have they discerned the wisdom o f my B ible.
.So, if they cannot understand the widom. of a Man,
they cannot understand the wisdom ofa Gob;; for
that wisdom, which Solomon speaks, of,’was nett in
feim to be pure and undefijedo-r-.
Now frond thy dream r shaft explain i '
For there the Jiouse did fall—* i
Digitized by oogle
H it TRUE.EXPTJLNATIOltf iWTWfi BIBLE*
r.i:=
The house qfclay, to thee I say* . ;
Ne'er rose to conquer all; .
No;.it-was I, that*dwell oti high,
Fell by the wrath of Mau:
Though in the sepulchre I did lie, \ ;
Youhnow l, rose again, Vv \
And perfect stood 1
—
-So now allude, v
The house of clay mustJalU
But it^s I, that dweU on high, . '
Must rise again for a ll!
M y fa d in g jure shall now endure; j "
From Solomon you see,
The wiscfepi that I gave him heie „
He prophesied of M
ifu
And now to-the#, all flesh shall see,
The wisdom here is come;
That h$>did *ay should be in SHpr^»
And bring me now the Man,
That*wiH;appear the whole to clear—? '
Thy pondering heart goes deep: .
Men b^ithpir wisdom they do err* /*
As he in sip-did break.
Though wsDOM strong to him did come.
But did it hiimimorove,
To livj^jn,virtue all nis life, ,
For to reward my love,
That I did come, and place so strong*
His greatness all.might see?
But mark the way he did go on, ,
Till he fell back from M$>’
Then boast no more of wisdom here, :
That it is plac'd in Man. t*’
I tell thee; greatly all do err—►
The Trial none can stand, *
To say that Man did ever come \
In wisdom so to shine; • .
In all the virtues there are plac'd t
A warning to mankind. <
From Solomon it now must come,
Your wisdom it must fall;
No ipore than be, you ail must see, . '
You so can boast at all. .
So learned Men must now begin
To see theirdolly deep;
The wisdom here of Solomon
Did of my coming speak. .
Wisdom in thee was plac'd by •
*
His wisdom to discern ;
That unto him could never be
Suich wonders to perform; . *
As wisdom there he said should clear '
The wicked to tread down; .
And make the nations for to fear—
Can t&s in jdan be found ?
Digitized by Google
tRUE-W nyAKATtOUfW ^W B BI?LB
I tell thee; N&f ftii n o tio ; - V
Norwas it tottebp he; ; . j .
Nor did they judge the Man a Idbl—.
’ Let wise menaftswer mb, .
Jf wis&kn Here he so did share*
And all men jrud&’d him vHtoj
In giaftdefo|Wbt fodid appear, r 4
And so did end his days; ' .
Then how Oaft MaftsO%imp!y fcdftje, '•
With him to place tbew aan?
To shy yti&t fo&jhme they compared -
The steps that -he had trod >
Or didfhttySny* th atto ry w i^ / > „
That honour he had toft*, ' ;
Whetf that fch Life I tbefcWWjty? v
My Bible m m discern !\*
Did he appear (bo* answer beta)
lNRiGHtEOU^NE»s to-^erne, '
That as a BREAst^txtfc he dSd*e»
To judge the s<m* of men ?
The world with he, dsd theyagreey
As it is mention’d thebe* : »
And the unwise beware? ■
Did he cast down* in every- sound*
His thunderfhg boks abroad?
And IVofri the clouds co&id he be fobbed
To set the mark of God ?
I tell theO* NO; 1t WftsatfUb; ;
His hailstohte Could net fa%
Nor wfcb hit wrath to fly abroad
The ragingsens tocak
No, no; by Man "twgs never done*-* f
He could IfcfegothitAigh: '
And from the Life that he did ftfriu* **
Call all before Ay yiew**- *
How bekegaa to f&l ihSht, '/ V.
And wrong built afchft here: .
* Then hew can men allude to him,
What they can never clear?
N o; Hkfrom tafe the Wholermfct be*
For I shall sogb On,
Until mYwittftbBf ‘
all shall see *‘
Is like his words become, . .
Ishall not stop* so all may hop* *
That wish the whole to See;
The wisdom of his Words to drop
And now fuffkl’d ta M
R.
So ’tis not tbOe, allflesh must see,
* By wisdom r
dmwv
d it here:
N o; it was 1, that dwellon high, v
Did iathy heart appear
To ponder oft, as thotfst begun* - ^
My Law iS'WftttOn dfem.* * •
Digitized by Google
X U
Back to the standard all must, come—
And let thy Life appear;
When tliou’st.began in Prayer, ’tis seed,
To wrestle with thy Gqdj
I said my LAwaupop thy n£ABt
Should*sur^ he writ and know’d:
Then now see plain, ye sons, of men,
What-LaWsare written here!
Then how with hen can yo»u contend^
♦Without your wisdom clear,
That you cap say another way,
The wisdom he did see
Was in himself* Gan you xjowtell
It did not speak of me ?
1 tell you vain, ye sons of men,
, Your judgment must appear.
If you do say aivkhtr way
In judgment she doth err,
The things to place, ye fallen race,
T hatmy wisdom it must cotne
These vondrous things to bring to past—
^
t
IlneT
er was done by Mhn. ,
What mighty winds*can you now find
From man can surely blow >
What storms arp here, like bows appear, .
That Man by strength can throw
For to lay waste, the earth to pass,
1U dealings castaway—*
. •
The mighty menjto overthrbW,
Their'strength to cast away,
That will q#t stoop, beneath my feet,
To^Vish my Kingdom here;
A r ' *ork with me the wholeto ?et
rhat'the unwise may fear?
So now begin froip Sqlomon
His Wisdom you’ll trace deep;
And from the words to thee are see©
I shall begin to speak:
A short time here I did appear
My Labour to go through *
,
And now the long time I shall dear, J
ForfH fW fiiitso;
Though hasty then, I say to men.
My Life was took away;4
Because it was by wicked men
My Life1
they hasty stay'd-
But ne'er discern’d what they had don? j
And understood it not,
If their redemption ever came,
Then I their sins mnsublet ■
To come at first arid d^im the fewtj * '’
God's wisdom all go through ;'
That as the FftOMise first wai plac'd*
SatannwtfyelMsi**
Digitized by Google
±RUE bxplAnations b>*Ti{k BtfiLfi.
"!
So wisdom here is plac’d in her , . ,
The promise for to crave y , r. /
And by it she can neve** err-} M
Her promise she shall have;. t i
As at the first in her ’twas plac’d,
To have the guilty fall j ., 7
So at the last the whole shall burst*„ .;
I now do*tell you all y ;
Then can you blame, and will you shame
The wisdom that ishere ?. *
Then sure my anger you’ll inflame, : ,
My answer you shall hear:* r
If you despise for to be wise, ;
To hear myjust decree, ;
Then now the end ’tis my intend ., -
My laughter soon will b e *
Tor Men I’ll scorn, it shall be known#
If-they do scorn me here y "
’Tis I must come the righteous man
. In boldness to appear. ^ t
Now bring me one that you can name#
That you’ve atilicted here, *
That you can call the righteous man#
To make you tremble here ; *
Amaz’d to see the power of he,
And his salvation come ; .
I tell you plain, ye sons of men,
It ne’er was meant in Man.
N o: ’tis in me the power must be,
For so I shall appear y
And my salvation Men shall see^»
Then let my -foes to fear y
For upright men with me will join,
Till I have went all through y ;
And then the souls of righteous men •
In God they’ll find him true. . ^ «
Torments to them shall never come, j
Fori shalliree them here. 4
And to the verse* that thou dost look *
I now shall answer here : k
They’ll see the word that s on record,
That they ne’erjudg'd was true y ^
That in fhe end twas my intend, : -
To bring aU to their vhw. , *
For the just man must now be known
He is the Son of God ;
And from the cross it must be shewn, f '
His enemies,’tis know’d, * >
Said, “ if it be so, we this shall know#
“ So let him help him here; ,
If from the cross he now can go, . ,
“ Waewill believe and fear-” ... ^ ^
With forturing thep they did begin ’ ^^
The Son to crucify5 “
* Chap. ii. 8. Read the chapter through#
Digitized by Google
ifrisoditc of iotoMbir; t
feul never none discern'd the thing
That Solomon did say—
That wisdom here in him was dear,
, Y e t he ne’er understood;
For in his wisdom he did err*
And ne’er discern’d his Goi>—
That unto him 'twould all be done;
As it is mention’d here;
The torturingthenof sinful men
With patience I did bear;
Condemn’d with statutemy Death it cam£
For they condemn'd me so*
To say i f \ was then the Son
Of God he then should go—
Deliver M
fefrom misery ;
But this he did hot ao.
But now I say to thee this day
. The former words are TeDe;
Then now at last the whole shallburst;
Their vices let them see*
How they imagin’d in their hearts*
Such evil things of me.
The mysteries there they could not clear;
God'sways they itere not known $
And from the wisdom ofmen here*
, They never did discern
The Wisdom great that he did speak
■Did all of me foretel;
They cannot bring a righteous M
A
rt*
That way to rise and fill,
ao now the ehd ’tin my intend
My Bible all to clear ;
And I shall point out every way
- Whereof I’m spoken here.
For God created man at first
, ImmOrTal for to be * . *
In his ofaN image he was plac’d
For all eternity;
Yet Satan there did strong appear,
. In envy for to swell i «
And death into the world it carnet
By Satan's arts fromhell;
So if with him you now will join.
You’ll Purely find it so
The Devil’s envy Men do bind*
That they with him might go.
Butl’lTberound now to mankind
That will not tempt me here j ,
And unto s u c h they now shall find
TheirLo*
rd in power appear;
That don’tdistrust me at tne last;
, My Wisdom all shall see;
A loving SpfRiTnow shall burst}
To those thatjoin with M
B
*
u
Digitized by Google
154 TRUE EXPLANATIONSOf THE Bt8LB*
My Spirit here shall stroug appear,
r The world throughout to fill }
And they that long my voice to hear ' 4
Shall have my knowledge «tUl, *
To shew them plain the time,is come
r - My Bible to make good; >
Dark sayings, ne’er observ’d by Map*
Must now be understood
* Were spoke of me, though none did set
Till I in thee appear’d ;
m
Then know, the wisdom given she*
To ask her full reward,
As at the first the thing, was plac’d*
She craves it in the end.—
Will you despise her being wise*
To make your foe to bead-;
My sons to free from misery*
'That on your God confide ?
'It was the wisdom fir$t of M
E*
And yet from Man’twas hid
Till at the last Leometo burst
And place the wisdom here*
The woman should her promise claim**
Then let her foes take care !”
Salmon's Song, viii. 3. 5 ,6—His left hand should
be under my- head, and his right hand should em­
brace me. W ho is this that cometh up from the wil­
derness, leaning upon her beloved ? I raised thee up
under the apple tree :• there thy mother brought
thee forth : there she brought thee forth that bare
thee. Set me as a seal upon thine heart, as a seal
upon thine arm : for love is strong as death; jea­
lousy is cruel as the grave. Chap. vi. 10, 11— Who
is she that looketh forth as the morning, fair as the
moon, clear as the sun* and terrible as an army with
banners ? I went,down into the garden of nuts to see
the fruits of the valley, and to see whether the vine
flourished, and the pomegranates budded;, Chap.
v. 2, 3'—I sleep, but my heart w a k e th it is the
voice of my beloved that knocketh, saying, open to
me, my sister, my love, my dove, my undefiled:
for my head is filled tyith dew, and my locks with
the drops of the night. I have put-off my coat 1 how
shall 1 put it on ?. I have washed my feet; how shall
I defile them i Chap. iv. 15, 1 6 —A fountain of gar-
Digitized by Google
* w o o * solomoit. 1 5 i
dens, a well of living waters, and streams from Leb->
anon. Awake, O north wind; and come, thou
south; blow upon my gardeD, that the spices there­
of may flow out. Let my beloved come into his gar­
den, and eat his pleasant fruits.—The contents of
this chapter: Christ setteth forth the graces of
the church. 'Ver. 8—He sheweth his love to her.
Ver. ]6.— the Church prayeth to be made fit for his
Treskncb. Ver. 8—Come with me from Lebanon,
my spouse, with me from Lebanon. Chap. ii.
II, 12, 13. 15, 16—-For, lo, the winter is
past, the rain is over and gone; the flowers
appear on the earth ; the time of the singing
of birds is come,' and the voice of the turtle is heard
in our land; the fig tree putteth forth her green figs,
and the vines with the tender grape give a good
smell. Take us the foxes, the little foxes, that spoil
the vines; for our vines have tender grapes. M y
beloved is mine, and I am his: he feedeth among
the lillies.
Now n i begm from Solomon,
E’er thou dost further go.
They say that ail is to the church—
*
And 1 shall make it so:
But unto all can they now call,
And let the church appear,
To say “ we ’re thine, and thou artmine,*'
And boldly answer here,
Thatfrom the heart they can impart*
To prove they’re so with m e ?
1 tdl thee, no : ail hearts l know,
And every heart I see;
Though unto all is now the call,
But all wiU not comply;
The churches,here cannot appear
To say—u in us does lie—
«4That we are thine, and thou art mint* ;*
N o : every heart 1see,
They cannot bring it'to the church.
Till all in heart like thee
^ * j the same to have come—
church mu«t here standi mntq*
THE ANSWER OF THE LORO*
v %
Digitized by Google
Till they with thee; united be ^ r
To strike unto the root *
. The foxes here, I mean to clear *,
To take them all away; ’ ;
. My tender vines do now appear,
The branches so do lay, ,
To join with thee; all flesh must se^
I tell thee* 'tis not so, ; #
That all the branches in the Church, ’ '
Like those, with thee do go.
$ 6 here are som e th e branches com e,
And enter’d in the'Vine ; '
But unto all it so must come
Before the c h u r c h be m in e , .
' To answer here, as doth appear,
They both are join'd as one
’ But from the lillies now appear, ‘ :
To feed with them I’m come $ . .
’ As lillies white, before your sight, 9
So white 111 make them all. *
The flowers here do now appear; .
The singing birds do call J,
That they are clear, the TRUTH is here;
The turtle’s voice iscome, - •
■ To bring in p e a c e , le t tum ults cease :
. A turtle must be known,
(low p e a c e from h e r did first appear
The waters to abate : ,
So now the turtle's voice is here,
To tell you all your fafe—
That I a m come for to bring in
My every tender vine; 1
And all the foxes shall be seen
* To perish in their time.
So here's the caH, to one and all*— .
* My calling is begun ;
And if with me you join'd will be* '
, Unto the v in e now turn ; ’
Then I’ll appear to answer here,
And say tnat you are mine:
And so m y k in g d o m you shall share,
And I shall call you mine*;
And'you the same may claim my name^
*To say you're jo in ’d w ith m e .
$0 here’s the c h u r c h l'linever b iam t i
For in the clefts you'll see ’
' That I am cometo visit Man-—
. That is the rock for a l ^, '
- And so with m e you join’d may b
The foxes down shall fall: '
Til take away, I now do say, .
All that do hurt m y v in e .
Now see m y b ib l e how ’t doth Jayt
A warning to mankind. .
t Chop. ii IS, t Ter. 2* %Fer. 12, $ FerH
156 TfiUE EXPLANATIONS O
PTHE BIBfE. ^
Digitized by Google
tQKG 0 * PGL0M0K,
J£ I appear the whole to clear,
The Foxes to destroy ; ✓
Then where’s the man with me can stin<|
That won’t the whole enjoy ?
So now appear, the sword is near,
That will destroy my Foe;
The valiant Men expert in war • •
Must noyr ip valour go,
Till they bring in their every Kingv
Where wisdom strong is plac’d;
for every victory they shall win.
And all my goodness taste. '
So come with me, you all shall see
• What wonders will appear,
When I from Lebanon do come,
My spouse in all to clear f :
My spouse j'ou’li see is join’d with Msr
My sister, and my bride; *
And my beloved, all shall see,
Doth in my truth confide,
Till Cshall come to dwell with them, .
As it is said before;
Because their Love I now shall prove
. My heart hath ravish’d here -
fetter than wine, behold the time
That all these things did come ;
,And every age call you to mind,
And see ife’er ’tw^s done,
JUke sisters here for to appear . ,
Espous’d in L ove to me,
Wishing to bring my Kingdom here,
That they may dwell with mb:
Put I am tnine, and thou art mine,
* Is now their every cry.
Jfow tell me if there was a time#
My chosen friends were nigh,
For to appear, as these do here— '
Invite ME 1? come down, ‘
Into the Garden to appear
This Earth shall so W found; H
For as at first it so was plac’d,
I’ll make it sofor Man; ^
JUke Paradise the whole shall burst,
When I do end my plan* ,
My spices here shall then appear,
And strongly fly abroad:
And in the Spirit I am here.
To let Men know their L ord
| s come to clear the Bible here:
For all Til now make true.
I tell you all ’tis time to fear, ,
That mockery do pursue. t
fo r now see plain, ye sons of men,
The way my Church is plac’d;
f Chap. ii|. 7, $. t TfT*
Digitized by Google
TKUE EXPLANATIONS 01* T *« B1BLS»
It is ofW oman, Til maintain,
To make my love to burst.
My sisters here and spouse appear—
Mark how the whole go throughj
Then how the Church can you now clear*
To prove ’tis done by you ;
^ h e n you stand out so full ctfdoubt,
And all the truth deny?
T he mysteries no man did find out* ,
Why that the Church did lie
So to compare with Women here—
*
My spouse and wsters too.
See how their love to me is dear.
Bring all before your view5
Then you must say another way—
- «• Wecannot here dispute:
« We see their love for Christ doth lit*
4
4To strike close to the root
*• That did begin to bring in sin,
•• That Men might God despise;
<
*But now we see the hearts ol theix^
4
4They've surely done more wise;
* Then can we clear he is not here,
••Their every hearts to draw? ‘ ’
«•Then sure hisLavs, wenow must prov**"
«*Doth with these Women go/
$0 I’ll appear the whole to clear,
. The Church Fin cpme to cafl;
And see if they willjoin with ye*
And foil of L ove be all.
Now i f t be so, my love they’ll knovi
I equal shall return;
For where I see your Love to flow.
Mine is more strong than Men’s*
0 So now appear my voice to hear,
And open to the sound;
For as the words are mention'd here,
They’re in these Women found.
Then how can Men the Trial standi
That do the truth deny,
When you do see the ways of me
* Do like my Bible lie,
To prove to all this is the call,
My Kingdom is at hand?-r*
And as the words are mention'd herb
The perfect truth does stand :
The Vision * see, was shewh to thee-*
Wet with the dew I’m come t ;
Thou knowest my hair did so
And I no coat had on.
So every way, I now do say,
The likeness doth appear;
Thou saw’st the sweat upon my lace,
, With wet disorder'd hair**;
* See the Vision in the Book printed at Stourbridge, ip the Ilet*
in 1804, p* 100* \ Chap. v. 2.
Digitized by Google
l o w o* soLowoy*
W ith tears within thoudost begin.
My perfect Lqve to see:
And! thy 1
^ ^ would stionger win.
But weakness Xdo see,
When l unpart to thee My heart,
How it inJ^ovE is come
To waken ail, to hear the call.
That unto Me will tom.
Under % head ray Hand was laid, '
My Breathing thou didd feel; .
And so I’m come to rescue Man,
The Wo maT
jt'sFall to heal.
Then Women heremust first appear-'-
And first they did begin;
And now at last they so are'plac'dL
• When I come to explain
My Btbee here, to prove it cfew, '
How every thing has stood;
And thy Bjexovep thou didst ifear
^ Had left thee, as x God, ,
” hen Satan strong to thee did caste ■
Let all Men bear thy cry ~
*
*That aiy beloved he Is gone;
“ I knew not where he lay 1-W’ /
Till I again in Love did faun.
And in thee did appear;
Then thy beloved must be know*
Is strong ip Spirit here. . v
Then now jet Men in Love begin *
To ask thee where I’m gone,^ .
' That inthe Spir it thou hast seen, 1
And felt my power strong?
Bnt ’fis not so, thou well dost know ;
t I always do abide
In power strong, as I did come,
Though in me thou’st confide; .
Because that here I do appear
In Spirit now with thee:
But if too strong I here should come*
It is too strong for thee .
Always to hear, I tell thee here,
Therefore I lead thee on,
A gentle manner thou ean’st bear;
But let my power be shewn, -
What I shall do, they alKhali know, N
When to the purpose come,
The words.are now before thy eyes.
I’ll answer here to M an: .
Under thy head my hand was laid.
My left hand did appear;
Mv right hand see embraced thee,
When ^r^itbieg afa-ong was here. '
Then now see plain, ye sons ofmen,
Tbew^y I’ve lad
DJgitized by Google
164 i>&vk iExrLiWATIONSO
FTHEBIBL&
It was to W omen, not to Men*
I in this Power did come. '
Now tell me plain, ye sons ormen#
What W omen do appear
That on the L ord so strong do lean
When all are baffled here? '
I've rais'd thee tip 5 so all may hope*
The end for all is-near. .
The apple tree was shewn to thee*-**
, Thy birth did so appear ;
As from the fruit, let all be mute,
The orchards did abound,
7 Wherein thy birth I did bring forth*
Let all men judge the sound:
The nuts to thee were shewn by ME*'
Thou knowetft, in ninety-two. '
The Garden here I mean to clear*
The Orchard in thy view, *
Where thbu didst see the huts to be*
; But then that fruit did fell; *
The Vineyard then I shew’d to thfet*
The vines should flourish all
That did appear; I told thee there
The bud was on the .
vine ;
Or on the trees that joined were
In hand and heart with mine.
So weigh the whole, theti men must*fall '
^ That with thee do dispute'; •
* My Bible must surprise them all—
* 1
_ I've fix’d thee to the root
That is to come of ages strong —
I ask them who is she
That's looking for the morning herd*
These wondrous things to see ?
Pair a&the moon she now is come, '
,For all her words are fair,
_JThe power of darkness to unthrone J
For now her light I’ll clear,
Light in the darkness it hath shin'd 5
But yet conceal'd from Mah:
But now 1
*
1
1further tell my mind*
Her light as clear is come, "
As Satan'sJitsty when he did buist
The Woman to betray:
But now as fair, I tell you here,
Her Promises do lay.
Clear as the sub her light is cofnd ;
My b a n n e r doth appeart* '
That is of Love, I now shaU prove*
And terrible 'tis here j,
To overthrow her eveiy foe.
So all these lines weigh deep; -
Judge if a W oman so could go*
Without the Lord did speak;
# Chap. ii. 3. f Far. 4. t Ckapi vi* 4»
Digitized by Google
I tell you plain, ye sons of men,
You’ve drawn your judgment wrong;
For when you see die lines of she,
Yourselves you must condemn;
Or, you must blame your God to sKame,
This way to raise her up ;
These wondrous visions for to see*
- To strengthen all h er h o p e ;
And sickness here that aid appear
Like one condemn'd to die;
, Then why her sickness shpuld l clear
Tq fill her with a lie?
If’
twas not true, before my vie\v,
The vision she hath penn’d,
I’d ne’
er let her to go through
Still leaning on her friend ;
Judging ’tis me, they all shall see,
Thy hand and heart resign,
Thy life and all give up to me—
And now I tell thee, mine
Shall be the sanpe!—so know m y n a m e ,
To rescue thee I’m come.
So W omen here in love appear,
. You’H find m y l o v e is strong
To free you all from A d a m 's F a l l :
If E v e brought in th e first,
Of sdrroxo here that did appear,
Then I'll bring in the last ;
Foy jow shall come the same to Man;
So now the W oman see!
My C h u r c h u p o n HER it m ust stand,
As W omen join'd with me.
So I’ll end here, and say no more;
But let your songs abound ;
Fpr you may sing, your God and King
W ill for you now be found:
So ’twas the Song of Solomon—
And song9 I’ve made for all
That now will see the mystery,
^ And judge from whence the Call,
So learned men, if they contend,
They cannot answer here;
But by the Woman in the end
My Church must sure stand fair.
The shadow see was plac’d of she,
And so I’ve brought the end;
And now the learned let them see
Which way their minds will bend.
BON^GaFBOLOMdK.
Here ends Solomons Song, for thepresent,—-Friday
night, October 5, 1804.
X
Digitized by Google
ECCLESIASTES AND PROVERBS.
Saturday M orning, O ctoitr 6, 1804.
Now Joanna begins with Ecclesiastes xl. 1, 2—«
Cast thy bread upon the waters : for thou shall find
'it after many days. Give a portion to seven, and
also to eight; for thou knowest not what evil shall
be upon the earth. Chap. viii. 11—Because sen­
tence against an evil work is not executed speedily,
therefore the heart of the sons of men is tully set in
them to do evil, Chap. vii. 29— Lo, this only have
I found, that God hath made nqj|n upright; but
they have sought out many inventions. Fer. 8—
Better is the end of a thing than the beginning
thereof; and the patient*in spirit is better than the
proud in spirit. Chap. iii. 14— I know that whatso­
ever God doeth, it shall* be for ever: nothing can
be put to it, nor any thing taken from' i t : and God
doeth it, that men should fear before him. Proverbs
xxix. 27— An unjust man is an abomination to the
. just: and he that is upright in the way is abomina­
tion to the wicked. Chap, xxviii, 26-nH e that
trusteth in his own heart is a fool: but whoso walk-
eth wisely, he:shall be delivered. Chap, xxvii. 12—
^
A prudent man foreseeth the evil, and. hideth him­
self; but the simple pass on, and are punished,
Chap. xxv. 2—It is the glory of God to conceal a
thing : but the honour of kings is to search out a
matter. Fer. 5—Take away the wicked from before
the king, and his throne shall be established in righ­
teousness. F it. IQ— Confidence in an Unfaithful
man in time of trouble is like a broken tooth, and a
foot out of joints Chap. xxiv. 12—If thou sayest,
Behold, we knew it not; doth not he that pondereth
the heart consider it ? And he that keepeth thy
soul, doth not he know it ? And shall not he ren­
der to every man according to his works ? Chap.
’"*xi, 2—Every way of a is right in his own eyes 1
lQ% TRUE EXPLANATIONS OF TH E' B IB LE.
Digitized by Google
€>F THB PROVERB'S OF SOtOtfOlti 16$
but the Lord pondereth the hearts. Chap. xix. g-i-
A false witness shall not be unpunished, and he that
.speaketh lies shall perish. Chap, xviii. 13-1
—
He
that answereth a matter before he heareth it, it is
folly and shame unto him. Chap. xvii. 13—Whoso
rewardeth evil for good, evil shall not depart from
his house. Ver. 15— He that justifieth the wicked,
nnd he that condemneth the just, even they both
are abomination to the Lord. Chap.xv. 22—W ith­
out council purposes are disappointed; but in the
•multitude of counsellors they are established.: Chapi
xvi. ,1—The preparations of the heart in man, and
the answer oftheuongue is from the Lord. Ver. 3—>
Commit thy works unto the Lord, and thy thoughts
shall be established. Chap. xiv. 10—The heart
knowethhis own bitterness.; ahd a stringer doth not
intermeddle with his joy. Ver. 27— The fearof the
Lord i$ a fountain of life, to depart from the snares
of death* Chap. xii. 13—The wicked is snared by
the transgression of his lips •: but the just shall c6me
out of trouble;' Ver. ig —The lip of truth shall ber
established for ever ; but a lying tongpe is but for
a moment. Chap. xi. 14— Where no council is/
the people fall s but in the multitude of counsellors*
there is safety. Ver. 26— He that withholdeth corn,
the people shall curse him ; but blfcssihg shall be
Upon the head of him that selleth it. Ver. 30-*-'I'he
fruit of the righteous is a tree of life; and he that'
winueth souls is wise: Ver. 31—Behold the righteous
shall be recompensed in the earth. Chap. x. 2g—»
'
The way of .the Lord is strength to the upright.-
Ver. 30—The righteojus shall never be removed-S
but the wicked shall not inhabit the earth. Chap.
viii. 12—I wisdom dwell with prudence, and find ,
out knowledge of witty inventions. •Vejr. 2Q-i—
Whert
he gave to the sea his decree, that the waters should
not pass his'commandment; when he appointed-the
foundations of the earth. Ver. 30’
—Then I was by
hitn> as pne brought up with him-: and I was daily
Digitized by Google
fFftl TDV'KBXPLANWWmSOB'irilBBIUUB.
•his;delight, yejoieingalwaysbefofe'hini. Far.31**-
JRejoioing in the habitable part, of his.'earth ; arid
rhy delights were with the sons of men’
.- Ohajp. tit.
J 9 —The lord by wisdom hath founded the earthy
<by understanding hath’ he established the heavens.
Ver, 32— For the froward is abomination to the
Lord: hut his secret is with the-righteous. Ver. 6^-
Inall thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall di­
rect thy paths. Chap. ii. 5—Then shalt thou un­
derstand the fear of the Lord) and find the know-*-
ledge of God. Ver{ 6 ^ -For the Lord giveth wis*-
dom;. out of his thouth cometh knowledge and un­
derstanding. Ver. 22—
’
-But the wicked shall be cut
off from the ieartb, and. the transgressors shall bi
rooted out of it. . -Chap. i.G3-r-Turn you at' my re­
proof i behold, I. will pour out my spirit Unto you*
, I tvilhmake known my words unto you* Ver. 24^-’
-
Because I..have called,' and ye refused;; I- havi
sjtretehedout my hand, and no man.regarded. Veri
—But ye have set at nought all my council, and
Wduld inone of my reproof. Ver. 26-—I also will
laugh at yoqr calamity ; I will, mock when your fear
. qometlr. Ver.'ig— FoF-that they hated knowledge)
and did not chuse the fear of the Lord.
. THE ANSWER qF THE LORD.
Joanna,. J shall answer thee, from thet
words qf Solomon : a wise spn makpth-a g lid father,'
. ljut; a*foolish sbti is heaviness to hia m pther. A nd
now I shall tell thee from .the wisdom o f Solomon,
who is the wise ■son, that shall make glad his rA -
t:he,r that first created him to have his delight with
the tons of men e for by; m y wisdom, I laid th©
f^ ndation of the earth, and ;by m V:wisdom I formed
MAif in i t ; and now m y secrets shall be v^ifh them
t|^t, fear m e ; and they who d elight in the Jtnow-
ledge;jpf their G od, the knowledge o f their ^God
shall be given uatQf th em ; and I will pour out m t
sp.ie it upon them.. T h e wisdom that was. g iv en t«i
Digitized by Google
, flit ’SDiaOM
O
W
r *$5
Solomon, was wisdom given for ail men to know
and understand the. end ofa!ll th ings; that the wicked
should be rooted out, and they that trust in the
L o r d , should be established in the earth.
So Fll^begm from Salomon :
As backward thou didst go, 1 /
And so the same i shall go on
Till I the end shall shew.
The bread is on tlfe Water cast—
My wo Rifdoth now appear.
You know that water bread would waste,
If men should cast it there ;
Then ’tis my word that’s on record
Isi bread for all to find:
And rf they’ll now believe their L ord,
’Tis my appointed time
For men td see the ways of me,
In wisdom to appeal ;
And*Inany portions now I’
ll give
To them that seek me here.
Evils will cOme upon the land,
And fast they‘will abound:
But they that ttu$\ to my commands,
In secret will be fdund,
Theirsetves to free from misery,
When it do hasten cm; ‘ v
But evil workers, 1 do see,
They are more harden'd strong.
A sentence here they oft did hear
Against them it was cast
But hastily the fools do say—
These judgnients did not burst.
Soevil here doth Strong appear
Against my every hand y
They say my words they will not hear
Asjudgments are prolong’d j '
But I do say to thee this day
, That hasty they will fall; ^
The times at hand you'll see )rour land 1
To tremble one and all,
That now dd mock the coming stroke ;
For men I no\v do see,
Inventions here in them appear
To mock the words of ME ;
They will'not clear my Bible here,
Nor suffer’t to be done;
Butiifdge that all is ended here,
Tne wisdom given to Man.
Was it for he, blind mortals see,
And for himselfalone?
No : it was wisdom come from Me,
Given out fot every man; 4
Digitized by Google
That at thelast vfben I do burst , f .■/
My Spirit to appear, .
The wisdom given at the first,
, Men all might see itolear. > i -
For now the end, ’tis my intend*
* The wisdom seen by he ‘
That better shall the ending come
Than the beginning be. .
But can you say* in every wa$*
. The ending is the best ? . , , *
Man that’s of a Woman born,
And in this world is plac'd,
If he gr»v;s up, can he now hope , •
His end for to appear *
Jvlar.lj better than ins birth did drop? •
Itcv 'jry sin appear
St cii6 in tnc Man, will you contend .
. T' is ending l
- the best ? .
' And if he goes to slay a friend »
. With ina!ice in his breastj
If he goes through what’s in his view,
His faithiul friend to slay,
Then will you say the end is best
What in his thoughts did lay j
That power there did so appear,
- His thoughts for to complete ?
No, no; the end he most must fear*
Because his evil great ,
. Must fall on him, at last must come y
■ His ending’s not the best; -
The thing much better was for him
To stop it at the first,
And ne’er go through what’s ija his view}
So ending you see here
Wrjth Solomon can never join,
In earthly things appear ;
Because in all I’ll prove the Fall -
It often is for men,
That they the ending cannot call
The best for them to come; -
If men begin to harbour sin,
* Imagine at the first, ~
1 And then in practice they go on, •
Their ending is the worst.
So now if men do clear discern, '
From Solomon appear, * •
They all must say another way—
“ We cannot see it clear . '
€t The ending best for ail to burst 3
* We know it is not so.” .
But I shall prove it at the last, ;
And prove his wisdom true—
' The ending here doth now draw near*
For 1 shall end for man, ^ '
1 6 6 IKUE EXPXANX T IO N 9 OP THB BIBLE.
Digitized by Google
Better than the beginning were:
For so I’ve laid my plan.
When the first the Woman plac'd
In the beginning here,
You say the Man was not then blest '
As she atfirst did err;
But how at last I’ll prove it best—-
I’m to the ending come;
And better Here shall all appear
When I do end my plan.
Then all shall see the depth of m
jk
When I do strong appear;
They’ll see the end of evefy thing, .
And Satan conquer'd here. *
Then sure the best it now must burst,
The ending all will see ;
Though she brought sorrow at the first,
But joy shall come bv me.
For upright here did Man appear
When I did create him first';
. And upright here he doth appear,
That now in love doth burst
ITo see the end9 a? I intend .
To make the whole for Man.
And from the words that here are pcnn’d,
They with their Lord must join—
^ We know our God what e’er he 'th done,
“ And what was his decree,
^ We kqow it shall For ever stand,
" No man can bathe he.
*
*Then why should Men so vain contend,
“ To take away his word ?
We wfcil do know what he’s decreed
u Is power like a God.”
Then now can Man so simply comt
To alter my degrees ?
Impossible for to be done,
For I shall answer thee—
The wisdom here that doth appear.
And Solomon foretels,
You know my doings at the first,
And what l said of H ell;
The Serpent there that did appear,
I said that he shouldfall:
Upon his head the curse was laid ;
Then will you answer all—
*
*We’ll take away what he did say ;
“ It shall not so appear; '
“ We 1
1place it all another way ?’*
Vain mortals, you do err;
*Tis more than you can ever do,
My word I’ve plac’d so strong;
tyom Solomon, you all shall kpow, *
My wisdom there did conge,
©F THE FBOVEKBS OF SOLOMON*
Digitized by Google
ltfs TRU* T « *
. To shew him.pkm wbatwas the cauL ■
Of all things to appear. T
So with their £pd men do contend.}
But ne'er discern it here
The wofds of him from me tkeycame^’
His wisdom all went deep;
And though yon say he liv'd in sin,
His wisdom ITJ. not break; 1
But to his wq$d lever stood*
And to it no* I'll stand;
And he that trusteibhjs own heart.
Must be a foolish man ;
For wisdom here*no man cancleary *
That w
rill not weigh the whole. *
And now my Q
&
ble forward call—
The pit’s dug dew for all
That now wjll stand in Satan’s hand-'?
He dug the pit at first 1
- , Because the Woman should not stands
But now in it heVcast;
I tell you there he shall appear—
He dug a pit for ail;
And now he’s catch’d in hisown mare,
He in it no,w shall fall:
He roll’d the stone at first, ’tis known,
To roll it hack on Man;
But now the,end is come of all—
The Rolling Stone shall turn
The same on He,; the end shall bey
* And he shall feel his foil.
As fie did dig the pit for shey
In justice she must call
On hioithe s $ w 9 the time is come,
The prudent men may see
The evils,that are hastening on,
When ail falfill’dinust be;
So they will hide, ju m
elabide,
And make their refuge*strong.
The simple here will »ot see clear,
Till their destruction come.
Unfaithful men do now begin,
As troubles do appear,
I know, to wrest the every thing.
And make my Bible err. :
So if you Jrust tb ,those who wrest ^
My Bible and-t^y word, .
Troubles you'll see, l now tell ye,.
Your confidence hath Red;
For broken here must ail appear; -
For I shall answer thee-r- . ■
My olory 1-conceal’d from Man:
They nf’
^r discern’d from me . ■
They wisDok came from Solomon, -
To she (Vycu. all,the end, . ..
Digitized by Google
And now;the wisdom of a king
, Would be to bow and bend, ' 11
The truth to know if it was so* < 1
My kingdom was at hand; > >
And then the mysteries they would ktioW; ■
To save throughout the land.
My Spirit here doth strong appeal*,
A candle’tis for Men, f
If they my knowledge wish to hear, ‘ r
And judge as I command,
The truth to know, and search all through i
For I search every heart
And now the ending’s in my view,
I to you shall impart
The time is come, the end for Mart,
From Solomon now see 5
The pondering of the heart is GoD’i;
, Who ponders deep in fHEE.
$0 if ’t be so, alt flesh must know,
Thy pondering heart goes deep; ]
Because from me thy pondering be—»
Then let the wise to speak :
Can mbn appear to answer here; '
A thing to them unknown ?
Or can they prove' theirjudgment clear #
In what was never shewn ?
Can this be done ? answer, vain men :
The way you all dispute,
Your folly must bring on your *hame;
Fori shall strike all tnute;
For evil here you do appear
For to reward the good;
Then n o w h ich way can you appear ?
Let this be understood :
If evil you reward for good, ’
, Your evil can’t depart;
Now let the whole be understood—
You wound the upright heart,
Who wish to free from misery j
And can you call thisjust >
No, no: I say, your misery
By Solomon is plac’d ;
Because that here I did prepare
The every heart of thine ;
So now thy foes let them take care,
Andfurther know mv mind :
’Tis from my tongue thy words have sprung,
The answers that are nere.
The ways ofmen theyjudge them clean (
In their own eyes appear;
But I the Lord, must now be know’d,
Do every spirit weigh.
My Spirit sobri shalffly abroad—
And let the Jbanted'sce^ •;
Y
.:;QE THEJMl>yEBBS OF ~SOEQMWff*
Digitized by G o o g l e
No council here <
U
>tbey appesr;
Then now can they defeat ? .
I tell them; no ; they all /do err;
The mysteries here lie great ;
Fpr though to them the whole Is known
,That they have wish'd to die ;
But frqjmthe manner they do act
Can it defeated be ?
I tell them #10 : they aHdo fcnbw
The thing they do support,
And counsellors here do strong appear
To carry on my won*.
So how can Man the Trial stand, .
' That council here gave none ?
r My counsellors here do all appear,
And with thee they dojoin;
So rcwTM Ns here shall strong appear, ’
I say, of life for man;
And for the evil they’ll not fear,
When Thave shew’d them plain,
. How they'll depart from every smart,
That is of death to be.-r*
Though first thou fed st an aching heart,
Let all men judge from thee,
How at lire last thv joys did burst, •
And so shall joys come on :
. I say, thy sorrows at the first
. Were quite unknown to Man ;
* And so at lost thy joys were plac’d, x
What Man dpth little know; ^
Such happiness no one did taste,
As tasked was by you ;
Yet stillbehind, they all will find.
I've greater joys in store
. Than ever vet came in thy mind,
When lying tongues are o'er. ,
* The lip of truth come from thy youth,
Establish’d now shall be ; _
And all the lies that men have spoke,
With shame, they’lksurely see j
For I’ll appear to answer here, '
The council hath been great;
Then surely n© man need to fear,
They know without deceit,
The truth to Man in all his known,
The manner spoke by thee.
Then where’s tbeman sballthee unthrone? *
The Proverbs let men see ;
As all is plge’d, so all have burst,
Then safety must be here p • ’ .
The counsellor’s come, be*tknbwn to Man,
In council all’s seen clear, 1
■* • *
That corneJrpm God thy written word:
Then how can mjatcontend* . i .
170 TXV* EXPtLAttATrOHS tXT’THE 1XXCE.
Digitized by Google
To say from m e ’t can never be ?
Your'council's allin vain#
To judge a thing yfu ve never seen—
~
My counsellors must appear, ,
W ho judg’d it right before their sight*, , j
The truth they’d all see clear, 7
So they shallstand by my command* j/
The righteous shall appear*
For to endure for evermore--
But Vho.is righteous here)
To judge a thing they have.not secru . / •
In justice cannot he \
No uprightness* nor righteousness*, " ,*
Should this be done by. me ;
Should I come down from Heavens high throne*
To be1a judge of Men.
And all their conduct quite unknown* *
What judge could l (oea stands . 7
For Satan strong would all condemn* . ,: *
That vic^ in all appear'd r— . ..
And men, as judges in the land* . •
InJu dgment strong, do err.
The hearts qf men to MEare known*
What'raeq do never see :
Then how ip judgment could t coip^ **
•
If nought was known to me ?
So men appear, and answer here, .
If brighter you can shine,
In wisdom for to be so clear*
And wisdom not like mine?
The truth tp.knQW how things do go, ( \
You boast'more than yourGoo \
Such wisdom I shall never shew, . >
' To let no truth be know’d.
So now begip fr<pOi Solomon, p
And see his wisdom clear >
You-must searoh out tlie every th
in
g*
• Ifyou’ll bejudges here;
If you will not,-i’ll tell your lot,
Like foolish meuypu ll fall; •
But if you’re wise til not disguise* j }
But now' I’lt tejl yoq all,
The fruit, is here that.doth appear* ■
.r
A treeTof u e e for man l ! ;
And if in it you’ll now appear },M
l / f
You’ll find the end’s at hand $ .
That all will break as he did spcaV j , , -
By wisdom at t|}e first. , , f
So npw to win you'ipay,begin, . t ) ,
And find the end to burst:
The prudeut here shall now appear
The whble for to receive, .
What in my spoken here* ,! ; 1
So let thte wise^hgvq. J
4 7 ,
.0* ? » * Of SQtQUOX. *7}
Digitized by
T R U E' EX T't ANATIONS OF THE BIBLE
That now the end is conle to Men, ‘
To make my wisdom shine. ,
For when the world I did create ‘
The wisdom all was mine, ,
F o r to bring forth a glorious earth.
When I created m&n } ,
Though Satan robb'dhim at his birth,
Fd deeply laid my plan, * -
. That at tne last it so should burst,
' Man should be my delight. ‘
Therfore the Serpent I did castj
Tfc bring all to men’s sight; • ^
That they might see the mind of me, '
When all came to the end. ‘ ,
1 And now with Man I’Jl surely be ; ‘
It is my full intent ^
With man to end as I intend, '
Who form’d him at the first. r
To my"invention all must Bend, / 1
My wisdo'm no\v shall burst; '
Because that clear I’ll make all here—
The Proverbs in my view ; ..
The SECRET^ ofthe Lbu6 ate here, f
The righteous all shall know,
M y WoRris with thee they surely be^
'M y secrets thev ari£ here: ; ,
And Solomon with me didjoin, ' i: , ^
And I shall prove it clear. , ,
Trust in the Lord with ond accord, 1'
And then f will direct: ,i
•* In all thy ways acknowledge me,
Thy paths I will protect. v
So do not fear-the dangers near, ;
Thy goings I do know ; ‘ ,
Thy wavs didst all direct to iiE,
And I did guide thee so, < ,
That there’s no man on earth can stand
To overthrow thy word ; ’
I’ll cut the kicked from the land; ' V _ ' 1 *
, And men shall knoyr their Lord , ,r/
Will now possess the every Earth, 1
And claim it for my Own i ’ •
In glory now I’ll bring all f o r t h i .
And let my power be shewn.
So now the call is here to all,, V . r
Ifmyreproofyop*llhear: , ,,
My Spirit strong to you shall,come "
And make my W^rds appear: 1
You’ll fipd them true before your view',
If now ip faith you’ll come: ' ,
But if you’ll not, Til tell ypur lot, ’
You must receive yoiir dooip:
for I have call’d, ’tis known to all,
Put Man refus’d to Bear i - .
Digitized by Google
. Au^if:thitso<youon do g o . ^ ’ :
When sorrow doth appear, * ^
You’ll find the Samefrom me iliall come,
Your grief I’ll not regard ;
When your calamity comes on
My answer must be heard *
. ! .
I call’d in vain, ye sons ofmen, 1
And you refus’d to hear ;
Then how with me can you contend,
To ask me then in prayer
To visit you, when you'd not go
To listen to my word, '
W h en l’sO long to you did come, *
And you reject your Lord;.
I call’d lif vainto sinful men,
Your subbornness Tse^— %
And subborn then I'll answer men •
As they now answer me.
So on^record is every word,
From Solomon appears;
And on record you’ll find my worj>,
As he hath spoken there
Will be the end to ever?/man—
The wise and foolish see;
And ixfty together let them stand—
But wha can answer me,
When all’sgone through before their view ?
My Bible now begin; * * r
And from'the pondering of thy heart
I’ll answer tnee again.
JJere ends Saturday night, October 6, 1804.
fftB ttfr&StfEfr AND MOCKERY OP MAN. 17*
Now thou hast gotten new paper, I shall relieve^
thee for the present from the Bible, and come to
# * # # # # # ; for there, I tell thee, my anger is kin­
dled, by his calling thy writings a farago of non­
sense ; and that farago.of nonsense he shall find came
from me ; therefore, .1 permitted lie should'take the
honour of men with my honour, that they might be
able to take the,cause in hand, to clear their own
honour. For I tell thee, they could not take it in
hand to clear rpy honour; because: the unbelief of
men is against them; but now I have made an open­
ing for them, and it would be fatal for thee, and
Digitized by Google
J.74 t r u e e x p l a n a t i o n s o e 7 X X
them, if you did not pursue for yeurowto honour;
for that is the way I shall clear mxpe. ;„Y
So let no one blame, nor nooipe shame, *
. For I shall ali go through, , .
It is my honour to support , i *
That I have order a so; .. , , ,
The thing to Man this way fhaUvCttKMk .
His folly alLshall see ; r
And then I’ll bcing.it to the land,, . 7
And shew mankind from he,. .
What folly here from Man appeals.
That boasts against my wonp• i p
The ways of * ****** none ean cl&*r» ; .
For he’th brought on a rod ;
On him ^oiall j. I tell you all, ._
Your nation is the same;
Andso like *** **** they will fall~. , :
I’ll never honour Mao,
That thev'il feel the stroke^ A
And ******* aow shall se©
’ It is the L o a t he hath disgrac'd*: , V
.
Then shall I honour he t . •k
I tell him,; No ; that lie shall know*. , y
And all shall know the s a m e :
My a^ger tinward,now shall go ; . ;,r
• To those that mock my : .
Mv B i^fc .is known to the©, r.= ;; ;.;,*
No greater to appear, , ( v ^ k
Than in the words I’ve spoke to thee;
So lot them all/t&kc care l . • ; >
If T went 6n, Horn man to tn&n, ■
'
In apes that are past,
And simply I did lead them on,
I tell them, at the last - ~
Shall I appear then stronger here
Unto a simple Maid
Than unto Man 1 t h e n did come?
r ? 1 ; r Not IVienyou ’re ail mtsied.)
Mut all h hei^ei I now shall clear,
' ' Do like m y Bjbde stand*; '! ’ '
And-so my Bible* mocked hfeteiJ
, , By tbousaryk in the land; ‘4 .
Faiaga herb they cannot clear;1 1 ,
Then how I 4f dear the wHhler
1 knowtnv BibleMen do tear* *
r
Like, ***'s words
JFheBiBt'E see, is known to Mtf, "
Is mock d like ** *•* * * ’&
And perfect a5
, hp mocked thee,.
So Men do mock the Lord. 4 ' ' J
TheBiBGc through, 1 vveirdo 4mc#vr*
They mock all that is peopl'dj ;
c '
y\
■
t: ■
:
?
•j
A A) 1,?
r .
o ... r.i
! .Li
J-'- u j i
. r
') ..
^
n *
1
1
auA
Digitized by Google
From heart to heart l eure do go,
And now lH ftfchre* the end , •
It surely eorae tnc same to maw-—
They ’re like the Jewsof old.: .
la iny «ptamhnd they would not stand, .
And so their faith grew cold;
And Israel there dad so appear
To bring their sorrows on ;
Mv statutes they could never bear
For to continue long; .
They did depart iaamind and heart, ■
My statutes they despts d ;
Forgot theidesfkigs 1 had sent, ,
Wonders before their eves
They quite forget, I minded than not, .
. As years to them roll'd on;
Asidiiow the same l see my name .
Is mock’d throughout the land.
Thy writings here 1 now shall clear,
’Tis more than man can do x
To make (their mockery out so dear, '
If they will all go through;
As thousands stand now in the land,
My Bible to despise.
Men say like He, ’tis known to me,
u Should God act so unwise,
* That way to come to every Man ?”
As in my Bible penn’d—
The mysteries there no mas can clear,
Till I do shew the end ;
Hoyr all dan plac’d from shadowsfirsts ,
The shadow of the Wall4
Then I began to guide them an,
And so I Man did call
For to obey what Ldid say,
And sacrifice prepare;
The Beast I order’
d them to slay,
And my command was there,
This should be done from man to man— .
But what was it to me? . .
’Twas but a Type that now shall stand—
The Beast you all vrust slay,
CovfldBollocks there to man appear
To atone for any gnilt ?
I ask, my honoor could they clear.
To say that they had spilt
The-bfood of beasts and sins increas’d ?
How could the beasts free Man?
No, 00? tkaendvm my intend *
To shew my every plan.
The Beast athivt, you know, was cast,
A curse upon them all; <
•
But on the: head where it was laid, -
The Serpentinthe Fall,
OFTHB tOBTOIN OF SACJtlFICEB. ^
Digitized by Google
170 TRUE EXPLANATIONS OP THE B19L&
Above the Beasts, you know, his cursor
* Wai then pronounc'd by hi*E:J
But now the shadow of that Curse 1
In Beasts, to tnan did say
That they should kill, their blood to spills
Atonement for to make; : *>’
A mystery see the end must be, 1'
For so you all must break,'
The Beast to killi his blood t6 spill*
As man at first spill’d mine: - r
Therefore this thing I did command*
To shew it at a time • -
From shadows here I first appear'd; :
From shadows I went on, 7
. From Types, thou seest the ways of me
Does m my Bible stand;
As thou goestthrough,thou well dostknotf
' ' How Moses’ Type was plac'd;
And first the Serpent I dia shew *,
And now observe the next: •
His band appeared so wither’d there*
; That I dm soon restore.
These shadows sec I then told he,
My wonders would be more
In Egypt wrought, as then I spoke,
And so I did go on
From Types all through,* thou well dost kndw,
And simply did guide M an; :
And simply here I now appear,
To tell you all the end; '
Thesq Types and Shadows pass’d before*
From Bullocks I did seriA
ThatuntoMEnousecouidbe,*
Yet it was my command;
Because the ending all might see;
The Beast can never stand.
So now from Saul I’ll answer all:
As he the Beast did save,
II is.Kingdom I from him did call—
I said not one should live;
So now again I say to Men,
The Beast I now shall slay, . ■
Whereon whose head the Curse was laid* '
And then the end you’ll see: <
When every Man with me doth join?
Wishing to slay the w hole;:' . 1
The Beast in Hell that there doth swell-*
These offerings two must fell; v-V
For offerings.two, thou well dostlmtfw; ^ %
Are in my Bible,penn’d ; ;, « *
Sin offering there it doth appear, *> -
But mark and see the ehd ; .
Peace offej;iji£sse was .fdac’d by ME? .i * j *
Then let Men hgw the tvs*s
* Exodus ir. 3.
Digitized by Google
Asacrifke .they madeofiMfe, r
And they the Lamb did slay;
The Type befor* did then appear,
„ The Hf/ff'op and the Blood. *
My choseti Men l then did clear, *
- When Pharoah felt the Flood; *
So Phareahaee the Beast must be— r
The sin offering was there;
The peatd offering mast come from me—
And now the Type see dear. '
Sohy the L amb you now must stand:
It is his Blood must FtEE,
To bring the peace offerings taM an,
. If you will use in ms, .
And noW.regain the-prom is’dla n d ; * V
And CAllAAif’
ahappy shore:
It is in M.ayon now must stand,
Y (^r peace offerings are here.
For now from sin I.shall begin / T
To cleanse the whole away;
Because the Beast shall now be seen !
That all hi* Power I'll slay.
The shadows here shall all appear
A substance greatfor Man;
From types and shadows I shall clear
v The way the end shall come. .
But thoii dost begin to work within#
To ask what shadow here
That like the Bible can be seen i
To have your peace appear ?.,
Because that long thou’st ponder'd on#
. It did with none remain; .
Their peace to wars they soon did turh,
And often did complain
They were distress’d and sore oppress’d^ «
.
Then how can I go through,
To majee my Bible at the last
A Type before their view?
But 1 do say to thee this day#
The Type ill it stands deep: .
When l my cl oseu call’d away#
And Pharoah l made sink# . T .
Then l went on, by Joshua’s hand,
- The heathens to destroy ;
And ifthey’d done by my command
They might the whole enjoy; ;
Bull l saw clear the Beast was there,
To work in every heart; -
And so#*.eir minds he did epsnare,
Till they did from,me depart; ‘ .
Then did begin thqir sorrows strong# ■ *
YVhen they did wron©'pursue;
But when the end to all is come
The sin offering is
£
*tt* KBACBOFFBBIHG AITD SIN OJ't'EIUNG. 177
Digitized by G o o g l e
>7.8 TRUK EXPLANATrOfir* 0 I THH BIBL1* .
The Beast be sUmi* urit to reififthi,
Whereon Lplac'd the C o r s e .
■
1 On Satan's head it first was laid* .
„ And now hd shall not miss
That curse on he pronouhc’d to be—■
>
The offerings must be here$ ' < ^
Wishing to slay the Beetf with mb,
And let my psaok appear; ' < *
Then peace offerings to Man I’ll bring.
And for them Pll atone;
And: to the Lamb the Blood mdst come ■
'
To make year pbac* be leootvn j
Then it tnay standby m vcoiltcaws,
When all my foes are Bed;
As-Isulblj stood by JosbUfth band:
But know* when be wardead;
They did deport in mind -and heart v ■
- !
And thurwili ever he, ' * w
Till as a Kmc 1do begin
The every Beast to stayer *
But Man would not* you see his lot,
And so his croton'did fdti-*
His KiNaTOnt then to DAYiin^eame \ *
, That Type stands deep far all:
But here ally mind is deep confin’d—
*
u Did David bring impeact K
*
1tell thee, No; it wasnot fco*
Neither did he release
The grief*of Mdk, for it was strong, .
,And sin did tfien abcmnd— j.
And when upon this Earth I came.
The same 1 beard the sound.
So DaVid here I did appear;
In tumult and in war;
Buenos; the end for all is near,
In Spirit I'll appear;
My Spirit strong shallbe In Man, /
For to destroy the Foe,
That works within to tempt to sin,
And then my peace you'll know.
Joshua xx. 1, %. 3—“The Lord spake unto Joshua,
6aying, speak to the children of Israel, Saying, ap­
point out for y<ni cities of refuge:; that the slayer
that killeth any person unawares and unwittingly
may flee thither: and they shall be your refuge
. from the avenger of blood. Chap. vii. part of verse
13— Thus saith fhe Lord God of Israel, there is an
accursed thing, in the midst of thee, O Israel: thou
canst not stand before thine enemies, until he' take
away the accursed thingfrom among you. Deutera-
Digitized by Google
nom
y xiar. 15— See, I have set before thee, this day,
life and good, and death and evil ; I have set be­
fore you life and death, blessing and cursing,' there­
fore chuse life, that both thou and thy seed may live.
THE CITY OP. REFUGE. 179
REFLECTIONS OF JOANNA, ON THE CONDUCT OF
Thumday, October 11, 1804.
It is useless now to say he is not prepared ; for he
has had time to prepare himself; and he must answer
to his own letters; so he is catched in a net by his
own feet. I remember his once saying to me, that
if he were in my place he should be jealous of the
Spirit; but if it was of God, he would, work more
powerfully for me. New I see, by his jealousy, he
hath brought upon himself shame and Confusion of
face; but as he hath acted so weakly and simply,
and the w isdom of th e L ord is so powerful, that
he. can in no way shun his destiny now; neither
could I shun mine; neither can the nation shun
theirs. For the Type of ******* stands deep of
the nation, to what disgrace they will bring them­
selves that mocked the coming $f :the L ord,
and his visitation to me.
THE ANSWER OF THE EORD.
" Now, Joanna, I shall answer thee from what I
said in *******’s letter. If he trembles to meet
thee, as being a simple woman, as conscious guilt
must condemn him, that he hath mocked and de­
spised thee, and dealt deceitfully with thee; how
must all the nation tremble at my com ing, that
have mocked all my warnings, all my invitations,
and despised my love, and destroyed the truth
of my Bib l e , as he destroyed the truth of thy
words: for they have, as much destroyed the truth
of my Bib l e , as he denied the trath of thy writings.
—
•And now I studl come t o th e C i t y ' op R e f u g e .
I have already told thee, my Biblesuynds for Types
, and Shadows of the End. Now the cities of refuge
• Z 2 '
Digitized by Google
1 8 0 TRUE EXPLANATIONS OP TH E B IB L E .
were for those,that com mitted &murder unawares and
unwittingly, that they might fly for refuge; and now,
J tell thee, the end is cotpe for m e to be the c itt
o f refuge for al} M en ; and those that have .com?
mitted Blasphemy through.ignorance, unwillingly,
or unwittingly, may npw fly to m e for refuge.
For I’ll appear to answer here,
And. tell what this doth mean :
The refuge see it roust be me— y
But many may complain :
- f*It is in sin our lives nave been,
' And we have mock’d his w o r p \ u
f* But had we e’er believ’d the thing
« As coming from th e L o r d ,
««We should not then, as sinful men, *
“ Mock’d on as we di4 say. (
«
*Unwilling here we must appear,
• ' 4
4No wit on us did lay ;
4
4*Twas not by wit we did commit
* The crimes that we have done$
No: ignorance here our guilt must clear,
N “ And so we fly to shun ;
4
4Our guilt appears, we now see clear, , • .
“ We had no wit to see ' ? *
4f The way our Saviour murder’d were,
4
4And we his ipurderers be.
' ^ As at the first, the Jews were cast;
v 4
4But refuge they had none"— .
Because to me they would not flee,
And so their deajth brought on.
!* And now the same, we do blaspheme,
44His rourderers'tq appear y
' “ For if we do discern the thing,
4
4And see our Bibles clear,
> •? We all must see, plain as she,
“ The Beast must surely die—
“ And his atoning Blood must come $
“ Our r e fu g e there do lie.
*• Then if *t be so, to him well go,.
‘ *
*For if we’ve murder’d here,
Unwillingly, we now must say,
« We in it did appear:
Because cur minas we so do find,
4
4Our Gob we wish’d to knotf ;
f‘He is the refuge of ottr minds;
4
4Then to him now we’ll g o :
4
4To him we Hflee, our guilt to free,
As we can now a p p e a r; .;
4
4We had no wisdom for to see
4
4That we were murdering here.’l
So if men fly to me this way,
Though murder \hey did commit,
T h o r refuge l will surely b e, . *
And they $hail find it great i
Digitized by Google
But if they’ll not, III tell their fot,
The slayers will appear
-Tq be destroy’d, if they enjoy .
The guilt they cannot clear.
Because not one on earth can come
To say thou writ’st from hell ; ,
Nor yet from thee can ever be .
Such wonders for to tell. '
Then men must know that they do go
To sin against my word ;
And plain their murder they must shew.
It is against the Lord.
So if they say they will not fly,
To have tile refuge come;
Put willingly they now will die,
And willing will go on
Against my word that’s on record,
Agaipst my Spirit here* •
If they go on with one accord,
Like murderers to appear,
To slay*the whole that they might fall,
No refuge they will see; '
Then there’s no city they can call
That was design’d by me.
So l i f t a n d d e a t h is now set forth, t
I sav, before your view ;
Choose which you \vill; I tell you still,
Refuge is in my view;
If Men will flee this way tq Mfi
They may chuse life and live ! -
Put if'tHey’
ll not, I’ll tell their lot, *
They must choose death and grieve,
With sin to die, I now do say,
The Root I shall destroy : ■
But if that Men will live in ME,
I shall them now enjoy. '
The t u n e d t h i n g must now he seep,
That kept vour power so low ;
It is the power of hell within ,
That daily wounds you so. '
You cannot stand as 1command,
While he do strong pursue;
H eis accurs’d in every land, .
And Men do feel his blow; .
He weakens here, as doth appear,
The strength and power of man,
If in their hearts theyv
harbour here .
That he must ever stand ;
I tell you, No; it is not so;
The cursed thing shallfall, ,
And down to helllie there may swell*—*
Men’s refuge they may call
Jn mb to trust, and him to cast,
Then you'may face yocr foe*
TftE CITY OP KEFUOEf lP ]
Digitized by Google
162 , TRUE EXPLANATIONS p f TH|5 BIBLE.
Before you all thev now shall fail,
And you will find it true.
The Scriptures here you'll then seedear,
How all stood for the e n d :
You’ll s a y , o u r refuge doth appear,
And all our foes must bend;”
For they shall fall, I tell you all,
That Satan do support :
That cursed ihug with them they’ll bring.
And then they’ll feel their hurt;
Because conceal'd lve’1
1be reveal'd, \
vWhen all together come—
' And then the meaning of MY w o r d * , 1
Will surely be made known; '
For then they’ll see the mystery,
Why Men are fallen so,
- Not to appeal], the truth to clear,
And let their honour go;
Because conceal'd will be reveal’d, ;
• The cursed tki.ig they’ve got;
And so the end will now descend
To those that folly Wrought. '
The love of gold, I II now unfold,
Hath been a snare to Man.
Now I’ll explain what all doth mean,
. See how the Type did come;
The love of gold must now be told, , .
, Brought the curst thing to Man.
SoLovers here do now appear— -
/ Love of the world is come, *
„ I say, in Man .; their gold is strong, ^
They set their hearts that way:
But if iilce Joshua they go on,
ThevTl find their Foes to lay
Before them all, as his did fall, ,
And hi* did perish there. *
So now I tell you one arid alb
The end will so appear; ‘ ~
From Samuel * come, I say to man.
Burnt offerings will not do;
Your Sacrifices will not stand—*1 .
Bring‘all before your view: ~
Obedience here the end must clears
For lshall answer Man, . "
• Obedience 'find for him was placVL
And‘so the end iiiu$t'come.,
Theri now see plain, ye sons of men, . .
What t did say before; . , *
. My F a t ^ erTs will for to maintail),* ^
' I come in all to clear. % ■*
,Changes;thefti see throughout to be, i
. And1now til change the whole, ~
. As changes there did strong upuear,.,
M y BjblEjo doth &1I. ' 4 ‘
' * 1 Samuel xv. 22. "
Digitized by Google
1S3
Then now the ettd, *tis my intend
To work the change all through;
For Satan now mustfail like Men,
That every soul shall know.
So stubborn here if Men appear,
Their stubbornness they’ll see,
When"that the End I come to clear*
And the.truk D avid be,
My sling and stone shall then be known,
It shall destroy my Foe. _
Though Iatfirst in wars did burtrt, *
As Men did me pursue;
But now at /<*.?/, mark how I’m plac’d,
A different way for M an:
Like Esther here tor to appear,
To free my own I'm come. 11
So if my word you do reject,
Then I’ll reject you all;
For so my coming you expect, 1 "1
M y Gospel *o must fall.
So witchcraft here must appear
In those that do rebel j • !
For now the mystery I'll make clear, r
Their influence comes fiom Hdl. ■
Obedience fast, you know, was plac'd,.
And so the end must be j
It is obedience at the last, '
That every soul must see, :
That will bring in, my Kingdom win#
Obedience must appear ^ . *
No sacrifice that can be seen <
Can with it now compare;
Because my word, that>ou record.
Men must be taught of me ;
If they will know the living Lord,
My statutes they must steel -
As on record you'll^ind MY word
From shadows to appear— ,
I said the Jews were taught of God,
* And I’
d deliver there: * . , ^ A
A David’s crown should sp be found,
J If ME they did obeyj * * ' *
But you do know, k isnot$o, . j
‘ They’ve turn’d a different wayf
So far from me-you know.they be, -
And I’ll be far from all;
The Promise of the Jews, yofc $e&
hgone, as they did fall! . . t
No Davids crown to them is found, .
As promis'd at the first t
' And far from m e they surely be-r- , . ;
And now, I say, at last, .
From Cvery Word that’s on record,
My Gospel must appear; . • . • :
^ 1HB CITY OT HBFVGS,
Digitized by Google
J
p
‘ «
164 TRUE EXPLAKATIOXiSi CLF_'ISUS SIS !.*.
And for from MEmysajnts 1see, i .. -
Believers do appear
Far from MV word that’s on record* 1
Far from the truth to stand,
Far from the Spirit of the Lord,
I see, throughout the land !
Then (air from me they sure must be *
My Promise who can claim, : ,
That how .my Bible will not see,
, The truth will not maintain?
Their sons afe’gone, I s«y* like him,
Their evil doth abound *
I know that many righteousinen
4 Like Eli now .are found*
Their sonp.do turn against me strong*
Yet them they’ll not reprove *
They’ll find the time, before ’t» long* ‘
That 1 shall shew my love
TVsuch, they’ll see, as honour ME, 1 *
My favours to implore;
And then their refuge they may see*
To Bee and sin no more*
But i( they’ll not, they’ll see their lot—»
' The. righitous M en will foil *
Fdr nut their memories I shall blot,
I now do tell you all:
For I’ll appear to answer h^re,
My Gospel it must come,
The every mystery for to cleaiv ' " <
This way 1’Uanswer Man.”
THE SEALED BEING PRESENT A t THE TRIAL.
% Augusf 15, 130L
Information tothose ofthe sealednumber, whow
ish
to b
e
preSedtaithe Trial', asho o
n
eisto b
erfused
admittance; being theprincipalpari of a Let*
ter, written, iofmr. Hirst.... . .
The followup remarkable communication is now
ordered to be printed. It is in answer to the fol­
lowing dream of Joanna’s :—-1 dreamt that I Jhada
large cloth fultof eggs, and was going to put them
up in a cart, without the cloth being tied, and as
soon as I let go the cloth, the eggs he'gan to tumble
about the cart, and I began tp pick them up, and.
1 - • Digitized by Google
gttf t^em into a very large jar; there was a woman
oft»$be other side of the cart, And I told .her to pick
them up also, which she did; but the eggs rolled
so fast, that'!'- thought the greatest part of them
were dashed to pieces, though the woman and I
were as expeditious as possible to pick them up ; yet
with all our industry, we could not save the whole,
and I was sorry to see so many broke in pieces. ■ ’
THE ANSWER OF THE LORD.
“ Now i will answer thee this simple, foolish dream,
that thou nevei* thought worth repeating or penning,
before I brought it all to thy remembrance, and or­
dered it to be penned.. The eggs are the sealed
people; those that were preserved whole, are those
that keep their faith whole ; but tho§e that rolled off
and were broke in pieces, are those that roll off
through unbelief and fall away ; and it is as much
impossible to restore them, as it is to put an egg to­
gether aftCr it is broken in pieces.
So here’s£he mystery of thy Dreahv
That for the Sealed ill explain;
Into one lot they all did come, •
And all their names were sign'd as one;
But when they together do appear,
And all the books are open'd nere,
Then many Seals they’ll find^ire broke,*1
> And thev may tremble at the stroke,
; To see thy Trial so come on j
’Tis but the Egg of Faith can stand,
That like thy Eggs their FaitPkeep well
The mysteries now l shall unfold:
For those whose faith dkl fall away,
And like thy Eggs their Seals do lay, -, '
Broken in pieces, and not whole,
1 tell thee, like thy eggs they’ll fall.
So this to Hirst 1 bid thee send, . ■ '
And let him shew it to thy friends,
That wish thy Trial for to sc?e, < \ '
With Seals that are whole to come to thee $ ^
i ■No other way can they appear— 4
The eggs that fell were broken there,
>And to l saythat Men will fall, *
That have not kept their Seals all whole;
But; they that have, and'wish to come,
1 teB thee, I’ll refuse no man, ,
A a , '
THE^SEiALSD PBESBNT AT THB TRIA L. . T $ 5
Digitized by Google
1 8 0 , ' INFORM ATION TO THE SEALB9 '
That the expences he can bear.
And wish to see thy Trial clear;
They are all welcome for to come
And see what is the end of Man, '
That they that time ^ill hear from thee; *
The shadow's deep they all will see:
When thou somethousands there did meet,
Thou knowest the number it was great; .
The multitude might all command,
The words that thou hadst got to say;
And so thy Trial it will be,:
After some days when I appear,
And in the S p ir it enter there, ,
My w il l and p o w e r for to shew ,
And mysteries gredt they'll see and know;
• But then I tell thee none can stand,
That are not seal'd as I command.
The meaning of the m ultitude: when Joanna w
a>
s
at Halifax, in Yorkshire, at Mr- Jowett’s, about this
time last year/ many people came from distances;
some said there were 15,0 0 0 , others 9,000, and others
6,000; and Joanna belieyes the last number wft*
within compass ;'and is a shadow of|ier Trial,,
Now, Joanna, thee I’ll answer,
As that day did then appear,
When I do bring on thy Trial,
So will Men be gather’d there:
No house for thee, they all will see,
*
* Is large enough for Man;
So in the Field they all must yield.
And with thee for to stand,
When l do come in Sp i r i t strong.
For all to know their doom.
1 tell you^Lain* ye sonso f men,
* You cannot find a room
* That can contain the every many
That wish the whole to know;
Therefore in public it must be done.
And [ shall order it so. - . *
^Vhen Men are clear the calling here,v
Is surely from on h ig h ;
And every truth Fd prove so fair,
My friends may boldly say—
f* W hat Man can doubt we’ve now fouled out
“ The hidden mysteries plain ? *
ff W e judg’d o f G o d , but now ’tis know’d,
“ And this we'll jiow maintain:
Digitized by Google
« For all is true before our view,
u And mysteries we’ve discern’d
u Much greater than we ever knew, v
4
4 And now we bold cap stand.’’
This will be seen and known by Men*
When I do strong appear ;
They’ll know from Heaven ihe whole was given#
And nothing have.to fear.
Then thou must go, I tell thee so,
To meet them in the Field;
And then that day thy friends may say—
4
4 We know our foes must yield;
4
4Our standing's strong, the time is come,
4
4Our toes must all submit;
4
4And Christ, We see, our Kino will be,
4
4We’ll worship at his feeti
* Because that Hell# we no\Vknow well,
4
4Its power he will destroy;
kt And so bring forth a glorious earth#
4
4That we might now enjoy
4
4The Paradise that is of Christ^'
4
4His,kingdom we see clear,
4
4All things are open to our view,
:4‘ Now what have we to fear >
”
Thfen will begin thfejoy to Men,*
Tb see the rebel cast;
The mysteries here 1 shall not pen.
That then they’ll see to burst.
Bo now tell all, they shall not fall,
That strong in faith do stand; ~ ^
* H ie Sealed Number may come all ^
To judge thy written liand,
That can appear, l tell thee here^
When in the Field 1 call;
Tl&t is the way, I now do say,
That I shall clear the whole.
So boldly stand, by mv command.
Those that their Seals have got;
Those that have not, I’ll tell their lot.
Just like thy Eggs they’re broke: [
And down they’ll fall, I tell them ail,
None but the seal’d can stand;
For in the Field the rest must yield,
When,J the foe condemn:
Because, in thee they’ll all find ms
In power strong to break /
And those that are thy enemies,
Tcannot one protect,
I tell thee* there if they appear
Into the Field to come;
Because the foe that day, they’ll know.
Will feel my powerful hand—
To make him fear and tremble there.
If be my friends molest;
A a 2
ABOUT BEING PRESENT A t THB TRIAL. 187
Digitized by Google
188 COWCERKlNtSi THE SfeAtEfc -
*Tisbut the Sealed I can spare,
When in the Field I burst.
So now if Men piesume to come,
Without a Seal appear,
» I’ll tell them all their final doom,
My fury they will hear; *
No friends to me, they all shall sfee, ;
Mv anger it -will break ; '
My Kingdom here for to appear, l
My Kingdom yoii reject.
Then how can 1, who dwell 6n 'high,
E’er vindicate my foe ?
' If l screen Man, who against stands,
Satan may answer here,
1 must screen he, as weirds they,
Mv Kingdom they despis’d.
Then how" can Man the Trial stand,
When Satan T chastise ?
He’th had his reign, I tell you plain,
His ending's drawing near;
And now discern, ye sons of men,
And see my Bible clear.
Isaiah xlvi. 10— “ Declaring the end from the
beginning, and from ancient times the things that
are not yet done, saying, my council shall stand,
and! will do all my pleasure.”— Now. go back to
the beginning. Genesis ii. 18-*-And the Lord God
said, it is not good for the Man to be alone; I will
make him an helpmeet fdr him. Chap. iii. 13,
14— And the Woman said, the Serpent beguiled me,
and I did eat. And the Lord God saicTunto,the
Serpent, because thou hast done this, thou art cursed
above all cattle, and above every beast of the field.
Weigh deep the three following verses, then come
to Matthew v. 18-^For verily I say untd you, till
heaven and earth pass, one jot or one tittle shall in
no wise pass from.the law, till all be fulfilled. Now
I shall answer thee, as thou hast put one verse be­
fore the other, the last first, and the first last,'just
so stands my Bible, and just so was my hqel bruised
before Satan’s head.
But when I come in power to Man,
My fathers will to clear,
The last is first, the first is lasK • *'
And I’m your here.
Digitized Google
' Itott you plaint yeaot*0/frh
M
M
, 1 " "
■
*
The Woman nought cando;9 r
IIo j it is me, the end you’ll sec, .
When l have all *e«t through. - *‘ '
Bqmpw ftr thetimc* at hanch •
Your Helpmate shall appear— ^ .
The SriftiT’s Mb, you all snail see* - •
That will my Gospel clear. i 1: , ,
The words I spoke, the way I act*. ^ . f
Was ne’er discern d by Man $ ' ^
Because this day to thee 1say,
1often stumbled them; . *•
Or hosf could 1, who dwell on high, *
E’er save them by my Death, »
If they had known they had ihupderd Ml?
Mark what the Scripture s a itl^
They did not know what they did dot *
To knowledge Men were dead)
But now r« bring ail to their view,
For I the U va
ng heap, • \
’That shall appear tlu* whole to clear.
They’ll see my Spirit strong i
No enemy that daycovud bear
Into the Field to come.
So 11
1end here, and sav no wore*
But this i hid thee send ; ,
And now this au*wor let them ltetr,
Tl*at wrote thee as a friend.
S E n f e ' Y B K S 1! l T T A T T l t B - * T R I A . L i
After this communication was written, the Spirit
seemed to leave Joanna, and there was .no further
communication till half past six o’clock; the
thoughts of her. awful Trial seemed as though it
was over her head, and greater than she could bear;
and was answered with these words :
“ Thy Trial there’s no Man could bear,
If I in Spirit was not there\
But soon thy Trial will come on—
Over thy head thou say’st ’tis coine,
Over thy Spirits to appear,
And so thy doom thou’it shortly hear."
Joanna beyig very faint, Townley persuaded her
to take a lit’
tle port wine. It was in a tea-cup, and
she said to herself, when the wine was; brought,
“ May / drink deep into the Spirit of Christ!" She
was immediately answered, “ W ilt thou break that
tea-cup as thou didst hreak die glasses ? then I will
.take thy Trial from th ee; for thou wilt break thyself
y
Google
Digitized by
off from tne.” These words cut her to the,heart, and
Joanna thought she wotild sooner die as. a martyr,
than ever desert the Lord or his cause; so that she
was tearful of lettihg the cup fall. As we were writ­
ing, she took tip the book of the .Flock of Sheep,
and opened it at the place of Osmyn, which affected
her heart deeply;
lgo A trial o f joanna’$ fa ith * .
•Now, Joanna, tbee I’ll answer;
Let thy doubts and fears be gone;
1 that am tbv every, master,
Much like Osmyn now am com**
*Twas thee to try, I now do say,-
I did thy grief awake,
And shew d thee of the awful day,
That-on thy head would break..
I painted bere, to make thee fear*
What thou hast to go through;
And then in sorrows thou wert found,
I brought all to thy view.
If thou would’st break (’twas I did speak)
ThyselfttiCn off from me,
The Trial thou should’stviever bear,
That thou wilt shortly see.
But then behind thou soon would’st find
Thy ruin to appear;
Because to me tnou’d prove unkind*
My Cross thou could'st not bear.
Then I must fall, I tell you all,
As it was plac'd at first;
Orlando Osmyn's ruin sought, '
And s<xthe end must burst
If thou had’st done as then I said,
To, break thyself from me ;
But from the Parable that’s here,
I hold the hand of thee.
It Could not go, I well do know,
For tfiou art in my hand;
And so the Trial thou It go through,
And by thee 1 will stand.
So do not fear, thy -Trial’s near,
But 1shall thee support;
My rival may thy heaft ensnare,
But he shall never hurt. 4
I say, thy hand in mine does stand,
And I will guide thee through;
Not all thy fo^s who’re in the laheb
By Satan’s arts can do.
For every way, I now do say*
I’ve tried thy every hand;
And silent here I did appear,
To see if thou woula’rtstand.
.Digitized by Google
Oft to indite, when I’d not speak,
The letters waiting hfere,
For thou to send unto thy friends,
But thou didst not appear i
To answer one, till I did cqme,
And answers gave to thee.
So where’s the Man shall dare condemn
A heart that acts like thee ?
Now I’ll go on, from man to man,
And all thy foes confound $
And in the journal this must stand,
For all to judge the sound.
Letters came from Mr. Hirst, and Mr. Senior, on
Friday, August 10, 1804, which Joanna did not
answer till this day. Yesterday, she said the letters
must be answered, but as no communication was
given her she could not answer them, so we did not
write till half past six o’clock, and the Spirit of the
Lord broke in upon her, and gave her an answer to
Mr. Hirst’s letter, which was finished this morning.
After that, she had no communication till this even­
ing, after the melancholy had seized her spirits ; and
one part of her melancholy sprung from: our telling'
things of gipsies and people’s telling of fortunes,
which had been true ; this worked a jealousy in Jo­
anna’s heart, that as knowledges had been given to
them from a wrong Spirit, and thinking of her aw­
ful trial, how she should appear if there was a- pos­
sibility. of her being deceived; but as soon as the
question was put to her, of breaking herself off, she
trembled 3t the thoughts and burst into tears, and
thought she would sooner die than run that fatal
hazard,
thb lim its of satan's foreknowledgb. lg i
Now, Joanna, thee Til answer:
How cans’t thou with them compare;
AU the wisdom of thy master,
With the lying gipsies there ?
If ought be true,v before their view,
-That Satan here did see,
In them he'll speak, in them he'll break,
For now I’ll answer thee:
As, I do come, and in my name,
The words are spoken here;
So Satan works the same tilth them,
In things that he can clear. -
Digitized by G«ogIe
So some tkingstr^e, before their view, >'
Satan oy chance may know;
Bring the Egyptians to thr view,
W hat wonders they did shew;
For to go on* as I began,
By ^oses to appear.
So in the land they still dtfWtand,
' By Satan’s wontiets here;
But as, to thee, let all men tee
The way that all's brought round;
' No Uevil here thou hast to fear,
For l am in the sound.
The wisdom see brought round by me,
The lines that thou bast peon’d;
And all thy footsteps let them see,
Then wisely judge the end.
. . Call back thy youth, and let die trilth
That did to thee appear, ^
And every fodtstep'thoti hast trdd,
. » Let Men discern them here;
Then they will see the mystery,
J ‘ What fortune teller’s come;
It Is to tell the fates of all, ' <
' And so I’ve answer’d Man,
The fate of Hell to thee I’ll telf,
* The fete of Man below; f
Apd jcdn thy heart in grief now swell*
To strike the fatal blow
' ©}jou the head of one that laid
Thy soil in deep distress?
But for my promise is thv plead*
So calm thy grief to rest:
vFor ttl appear, 1tell thee here,
Thv every wound to heal;
And thou hast nothing now to Year,
My pa wer shall never fail
To carry on as Vve began, '
And then the end thou’lt see;
WMien every victory thou hast won,
Thou triumph wilt with ME.
So I’ll end here, and say no more*
' But ! must win them all;
Because thy Weakness they may see*
When I do let thee fall; * -
To be alone, thy grief to come,
And Spirit thou hast none;
Then let them see ’tis all in me,
To make the victory come.
ig2 .
wqsds to rrsssfOThsx joawita’s taith*:
, , , , , ------- <
----------- ----.-......... .......
T he E x pl a n a t io n o r th e Bible a n t t M i i n u e d in t h e
i * / * ,, i
T h ird Pa r t . ‘ * _____
\Prke Eighteen P(uc*.*l )
S. RoossEAtr, Printer, ^ ‘ *
Wood Street, Spa FitIds, London.
# Digitized by C j O O ^ I c /
s . ; , ; n ;•,; y '.*> a / cut ;■Vi.Z ": t o r
7 '*„t‘ ''.-'Ij lJ l . * 1'i > t-.
::? vl ,
' : : •
. .r 7. r * r: • 7.‘lr.
t r u e Ex p l a n a t i o n s
;
f 'U •>
’ ’ ••‘' ' ' ‘ • **
• \ \Of* T H E ’ N ' ' : i - ? i, r.A V*;
. 6 '■
*. • tJ ri "
:• * 3$ Mlii IE*]£]• • ^ 7 :
; * S
' f.i
] r - . ./ \ ]
r*: PART THE THIRDS : ; _< \
■f ’ ; • *'t
•jr * Muudnt/ evening, X)cl. 8, 1804# *
J OANNA had been reading her Bible to Judges xiii.
and deeply' pondering in her heart how the Lord
visited Man,; from the beginning, age after age, and.
in what a familiar manner .he was with men, made:
her call to her remembrance. how the world' hadt
cried out abput her writings ; some saying ittey did
not believe that the Lord-would condescend so to;
visit in the Spirit; others saying; it is too low for it
God. Here;then they must deny die truth of their
Bible, especially the- bboks of Moses. And now J,-
shall brihg fotward the Bible, from the first: conde-:
scension of the Lord, after he had made Mali.. In
Genesis ii. 18— And the Lord God said# it is not.
good that the Man should be alone ; I will make,
him anhelp meet for him. Here was his condescen­
sion in the beginning, Ch'ap* iii» 9— And the Lord;
God called unto Adam* and said unto him, where
aft thou ? Ver. 10—And he.said, I heard thy Voice
in the garden,und I yvas afraid, because I wa&naked >
and I hid myself. ,Ver. 1f—-And be said, ,who told,
thee that thou wa?t naked- ? Hast thou eaten of the
tree, whereof Lcommanded thee.that thou shouldest:
not eat i ^fn»-reading this chapter through k appear-*:
Si Rsutfeau, Printer,
W
oodStreet, Spa Fields
Digitized by C j O O ^ I C
1 £ 4 TRUE EXPL AMAT TON j O J T g E E i& M j, _
eth to me, that the Lord deals perfectly with men
after the manner of men, and alter the language of
men : and witlr mercy mixedwith angfcr,'r
see in what
manner the Lord speaks to Cain, in chap. iv. 6—And
thfc Lord said unto Caia^nwhy art thou wroth ? and
why is thy countenance fallen ? Ver. 7—If thou
doest well shalt tho*i nqt*be accepted ? and if thou
doest not well, sin lieth at the door. After Cain slew
Abel, the Lord said unto Cain, where is Abel thy
brother? And he said, I know n o t: am I my bro-,
ther’s keeper ? And he*said,'what hast thou done ?
the voice of thy brother s- blood crieth unto me from
the ground. After the Lord had reproved Cain, he said
unto the Lord, my punishment is greater than I can
bear : and the Lord said, rib man should slay Cain ;
and', he put a mark updn:Mm, "lest any should find-*
him. andtslay>
him. Here were mercies; mixed with
anger.,, both., in. the1
, reproof to Adam-:;aftd EvtJ,'
in casting thei greatest corse upon the-Serpent, aind
then next in his mercy, ift giving' Gaiti^rooth for-' re­
pentance. Themafterthe jyorldhad been near 2,000
years standing, andisin greirly Abounded4rt the lhnd,
see how the Lord’comerhto instruct Noah, in chirp.
\L Hear what is saidin ,ue>; 6-r-It’rejpeiited the Lord7
that' he! had made Man'on the earth^aridit grieved
him . at his heart; and the Lord;said, I;thill destroy
M an..in! her* 14.' he telleth Noah how to make the
A<rh, as<a master:builderwoiild tell those he-employ-
ed:; and*perfectly a6 mahvvoBld'dfrectdrian, so the
Lordhirected Noah ; arid directed’him,' inwhathw
should-take into- the: Ark.; In chitf. ix. the Lord
spake withi Noah, as< man with many vt'hen he tell*
him, the Flood shall no more destroy the Earth ; and.
said he would set his bowihthfe eloa&s-^-^and 1 will
lookupon it that-1 htnf remember the everlasting cove­
nant between GoU and every living creature. Now see
how the* Lord■
condescends to talk to ‘
Nbihi/ in chap.
Ishwhetuhey were building the tpUwrJ6 f1Babel,' to
reachto the heavens: in w&at manner does the Lord
.■
»: :vi -j!'-*
•
*
Digitized by Google
A in 'vee. 6, 7 ?—1Behold,, the people is orie?.air^d
:y have all bnelanguage; and'this they begin todd;
a - ^ % • i | ; ^ \
confound their language, '^nd that they may not un­
name shall no more be called Abram, but thy name
shall be Abraham ; for a father of many nations I
have made thee. And God said unto. Abraham, as
‘
for Sarai thy wife, thou shaft no more call her name
Sarai, but Sarah shall her name be ; and I will bless
her, and, give thee a sorr also of her. Thus the
Lord condescended to talk with Abraham, as naan
with man. In chap. Xxii. he trieth Abraham, by
ordering him to offer up his son; and when Abra­
ham goes through, the angel of the Lord called to
Abraham out of Heaven, saying, (the second time)
by myself have I sworn, saith the Lord, because
thou hast done this thing, and hast not withheld thy
son, thine only son, that in bl sssing, I will bless
thee; and in thy seed shall all the nations of the
eatth be blessed, because thou hast obeyed my voice.
It is fruitless to go through with all the condescension
of the Lord with Abraham, and how he gave Abra­
ham liberty to plead with him for Sodom and Go­
morrah. Again how often the -Lord appeared to Ja­
cob, when’ha was distressed by his father-in-law.
and said, unto fjhy. seed. wjll I.give^ this land- In
chap. xVii. is said, tKe Lord,appeared to.Abram,
• [thee exceedingly. Here the Lord condescends to.
talk with Abram, as man would talk to man. If yqu
go on in the chapter, where the Lord saith, tlry
Bba Digitized by Google
. Jp6 . “
rnUE EXPLANATIONS OP,
Chap. xxxi.r3—And the Lord said unto, Jacob, re-*-
turn unto the ljtnd of* thy fathers^ and to thy kin-
,dfed ; and I will be with th ee.' And he sent his
' angel' through the journey with him : and the Lord ‘
Visited Jacob, throughout; all his trouble?* Now when
we come to Exodus, we see how the Lord visited
Mose$, in chap: iii. where the angel of the Lord ap­
peared unto nirfi in a flame of fire—Moreover, ho
’ said,' 1'aim the God of thy. father, the God of Abra-
*ham ,, the God of Isaac,/arid the God of Jacob.
| And Moses hid his fate for he was afraid to look
‘upon God.‘ And the I*ord said, I have surely seen
' the affliction ofiriy people, which are in Egypt.
Here the' Lord,goes all through, reasoning with M o-
$esj,as man reasons with man. W hen he complained
<jf his slowness of speech, did not the Lord send
' Aaron his brother to speak for him ? And the Lord
1gdvfe' Moses a Covenant of spiritual things, which
was his command, and he gave him a 'Law of tem­
poral things, in every particular as the kings ofthe
earth make their laws, and in what rpanner they
are to be punished for every, law they'break, In
Numbers xiv. I I — And the Lord said unto Moses,
how long will this people provoke me ? and how
long will it be ere they believe m e, for all the *igns
which I have shewed among them ? , I will smite
them with a pestilence and disinherit them. And
Moses said unto the Lord, and. pleaded for the child­
ren of Israel, saying, the Egyptians shall hear of i t ;
for thou broughtest up this people in thy might-,
and they will tell it to th« inhabitants: for they have
heard that thou, Lord., p rt among this people, that
thou, Lord, art seen face to face, that thou goest be­
fore them, by day time in a pillar of a cloud, and
fn a pillar of file by night.' Now if thou shalt
kill all this peopje as one man, then the nations
which have he?.rd the fame of thee will 4peak, say­
ing, because fpe Lord was not able to bring this peo­
ple into the land which he sware untp. them., the^e-!
' ■ Digitized by C j O O ^ l e
YHE,*^l^bW4RITV<>F G-OB jWITH MAN. -107
.fore he hath slain them in the wilderness.' And now,
J beseechihee, let. the power pft iny Lord be greatj,
•accordingas thou ha^t spoken,,saying, the. Lord i§
joBg-sufferipg, and .o f great; rnercy-r-And the.Lord
^ d , ,I haye pardoned; according to thy word ; but
As;ttuely,/^s I live, all the. earth shall be filled with
the glory pf.;h? L ord. N ovv if you.go through all
.the booksof Mpses, you will find the Lord talked
.with Moses, a.s man with man. And, in the. book of
Joshua, ho,w the Lord visited Joshua. Chap. i. i —
r-
The Lord spake unto Joshua, the son of Nun, M o­
ses my servant is dead ; now therefore arise, go over
this Jordan, thou, and all this people, unto the land
which I gave them. In chap. x. 1 2 — Then spake
.Joshua to the Lord, in the day when the Lord ,der
livered up the Amorites before the children of Israel,
and he said in the sight of Israel, sun, stand thou still
upon Gibeon, and thou moon in the valley of Aja- ’
Ion. And the sun stood still, and the moon stayed,
fintil they had avenged themselves upon their ene­
mies. Now if you go through the Bible, you will
find that the Lord visited his people, to warn them,
to direct them, to protect them, and to reprove
them, throughout the Old Testament ; there he ap­
peared visibly throughout, either by himself, or
bis angel§; making men prophets, as they had no
knowledge of any inspiration of the H oly G host,
before our Saviour came upon the earth. Now
our Saviour’s command is, to teach us to look for
the H oly Spir it of G od, which is a Spir it v:ilh-
in : for know what our Saviour saith—the wind
bloweth where it listeth, ye hear the sound thereof,
but ye cannot tell whence it come, or whither it go-
eth ; so is every one that his born of the Spirit. Now
the H o.ly G host,-^hich is called the Comforter,
is.to com ehupiK iT, and in power ; but it is not
said h e^ ^m co m e in person, like the visitation of
. tire Lord to- the people of.old; for we do not read
.fhat the angels of the Lord were with the Apostles,
• Digitized by Google
TQB TRUE EX't>£AS Atftc&S 6# 'rht'fits \ B'tK
after 'otW Saviour’s Death, as thfey^wete With tl|s ■
.people (if old‘; or that the: LoRb appeared to therti
after -HIS' ascension t o glory, as he appeared
throughdttt to 'Moifes- in . thje W ildetftessl1 TFh»
Apostles Were taught to look for the visitation of the
jLoiiO' frOm his SttR iT ; 'therefore iSi. Pa^i saifh,
iquehch not tho Spi fit, despise nek P ro p h e c ie sT h e
New Testanient as much affirrneth, that the SpiHt
bf the Lord shall be given to prophesy, 'and to know
-rite m in d and' w ill of God, hy the Fow eh of his
S p ir it , by the influence of his Sp ir it , and by tne
visitation of his Sp ir it , a§ ever the people o f old
were •■taught- by tile ;visitation of tHe' LoRD, by his
sending his ajigeU visibly to the prophets ;• but oilr
Saviour'•taught that the power of hisSbiRlT
•vomit'd be invisible. l9o he that denieth the one de-
nieth the Other; ahd how can men pretend to be­
lieve,- that the Lord would condescend to sheW sticjh.
wondrous visitation to-M oses, so mariy times as He
came upon the Tabernacle in Fire, that the chil—
sdren of Israel were afraid, and desired that Moses
would speak to him ; for if the Lord spoke to them ,
they should die? Then how can men be So ignorant,
to think they can be fit for the Coming of Christ,
and his Kingdom, before their hearts be prepared for
his Coming, as the Lord prepared' the heart of
Moses to be able to bear his prrs:bn„
ce ? The
more I read the Bible, the more I am convinced
that the visitation of the Lord must first comeilv
the Spirit, to warn of his Coming, before he cometh
in m ig h t , m ajesty, and.glory, to act consistent
with all the ways of G op, throughout the B ib l e .
How did the Lord try Pharoah, before he destroyed
him ! But some will say, the L ord himself har­
dened Pharoah’s heart. I grant it. Now, before we
pass judgment on these things, we must look at the
'beginning, lest we charge God foolishly. Consider
wliat Pharoah did in the first 'place; by- arts he tried
to kill, all the male children o fth e Hebrews* by con-
Digitized by Google
BBASQtrafO* TI9HBBB ICDGMBNTS'ON E65TFT. Itjtjf
Wltmgavifch<
tfte vinidwltvdw; b a t ■
.when, private >
nrf4
Woiddanatidaty ^en'hemiade> a public'decree, that!
every: tpale! chifdt of "the Hebrews/should ■
be cle-
strayed:.. Here ibmpm'his bloody (practices into exe­
cution ; 1arid! thei Loom .preserved' Most, s for bis de-
&nu£tibui >
iNcrwr^ as that PbaroaHxtiedvSo you p\ight
say,! it(warnDt< fpr< Lf-dcsinjaiiiDn, but tor1 the de­
struction of the; Bharoah:that came after bine; but we
dead ihat he was.1thesiaucass the Phnrbafo before him,
and. the groaningjfe of. the chiklrerf of Israel grew:
greater and gfeafef. ,<Sq tire sinsof one rested >uptftf
the.’head ofthe other, .to woifc .Wickedness, and adtf
w ith’cruelty.. Thennwijy shclold we' marvel' at th#
Lord’s hardening iiifl:heart',, that he might shew his
visible1signsfand jddgmentB id the land!of Egypt, to
pninjsh) ther.kiDg and' the. people, for their cruelty td
the!children: of: Israel*'and to prove *to thethti, that
therfe -W
asi aiOctD' in power;, whom th'd children; of
Israel weiie callfedto worship ; and whom they their-
selves ought to worship ?! Now remember what
Bharbah said to Moses* Exodus v. —(Who is the
L ord/ that I>should ,obey;his!voice to let-Israel go ?
h know not the Lord, neither will I Jet Israel go..
Now we sed from this, that Bharoah had no* idea of
ti'G b ir iiti power, -to patnish his iniquities; neither?
had the Egyptian*; for ithby.believed1bond were ini
greater power1 than their »«;'tPwise iaerr; the sooth- 1
sayiers andrriagicians/who bad .powerto'work liy eTi-'
chantmentfe.. sTherefdne the: L ord .wiseh'hardened?
PharoahVkeairtvYo •skeiw-them the difference* betwieetf
thePdwcr of. .Qonandthfe JPoweriof Memthat worked
by the PoWepiof' thelDevil/ itftbreford the Bold Mat- 1
dendd cm his [heart, to; lethidpfcnow who he was, and1
to •convince the Egyptians 'o f1 the fdlty of the. wiki'
m en/ that,they'trusted! ini !But; hovin cdii-ld this bft1
done/- if Bharoah’s' heart hnd^tot been hartleiiedj to'
exmtend with the 'Lord^1to^ahe-him know and feel1
his power, that it might j§ppear>visibly here upon*
earth ? Now men do allow that there is a punish-
Digitized by Google
ment for inn after death, -which theyalkb.aflawto t#
justi; but .where is the itnm- ;fh»t 'goes’ to see thi»*
punishment ? For it i* of nd uSe t6 the living ; pei-<
ther docs it turn, any Fromi their sins ! r."Bht wHen-the
Lord begins to shew his puqishmeofcaddLjudgments^
hereupon eariUi, then they tuhi manyfromthfrevfc
of their ways; and they stahdVto posterity to shew:
the power of G od, and his judgments) Thertfoie-
the things that I once marvelled at, :wby the Lord:
should harden Pharbah’s heart, I now see d iv in s
and in f in it e wisdom in it; for if the LostD'had not
visibly punished Pharoah in .this world, ho man'
would have thought 'of his punishment.afterwards y
therefore, if we look back to:ihe original crimes of
Egypt, and their cruelty to the children of Israel,'
it was wisdom, justice, and goodness in Goo, to.
shew his public judgments to;the world;; add that
crimes' like theirs, should not go unpunished ; butf
had:pot the Lord raised tfiem up to shew them, thol
wpttd coUld never haVe known them. Now^ when:
we; traceithe- wondrous works of God throughout
the Bible, they stand,- Upon record,! to shew! the
punishment due to sin. in! this world, which never*
Would have bedn-of rise-to man, if-all. had been
punished in the world to come ; and if- no visible
judgments had appeared here, ; their, punishment!
after death would be of no use to the living. Now;
if we, look to Turkey, we see the wretched cruelty
that is committed there!; .
yet till the Ittrd. begins,bjr>
visible judgments, to shew his wondrous works,
and power, the Turks will have no mdre,knowledge
of God than Pharoah’ had r for the! death of one!
bloody monarch raised- !-Up another,hjust as bad.>
Therefore, the Lord must shew hiai visible powbe:
in this world, that it might be made known in the
earth, that there is .aG od, to reward the righteous*
and punish the wicked ;. therefore I see the. w isd o m -
of God in all his dealings. '
to o . TITUR BXPXAfTjlVIOWS O P T tttf ~
Digitized by Google
' kirk fo n t for Vis ib l e ju d g m e n t s . . 201
r i • » I % *
*
*
THE ANSWER OF THE LORD.
“ 1
Now, Jpanna, I shall answer the pondering o f
th y /heart, that thou art afraid to mention ; but as
th o u canst npt conceal thy thoughts from m b, thou
fh a lt riot Conceal them from the w orld; for I knew
every th o u g h t,o f thy heart," as thou wast reading
through thy Bible, that if it was not fronj what I
. had revealed to thee before, fo (
try Satan s feign here
-Hpon earth, that I m ight be clqar }o m en and angels,
Of itiy first casting |iirn out o f Heaven, .and at last tp
th h in him to utter darkness by 'htutself>thou shouldest
h a te marvelled why I created M an at ^11, as all know­
le d g e ‘
was in 'm e, that ir.pn wotdd sin, and sin wpuUl
fering'upori ffietn sorrow. .These have been .thepan­
derings Of thy heart; arid that the revelation,-which
has beefi given to thee, is the very thing that clear*
ltheJjusTffcE ^f.G 6b';6 a ll, j -
ju n g s^ ;fcwf,wj'thput
Ba^nV ;sii^eririk ‘w h o ’ i^ th e origin, o f $jdJ,;tho#
couldest'hbt see Tn thy hear{ why M eq should jpp
kted to ^ tifrerb u t tjhou saycst tth,oaart afraid* tbaf-
th y thoughts havri bceiij sinful,r ia im g in quejstiop
jhfe 'VtlsDoitJo f the M ost TJ\g.u . . Npw I shall .a/ir1
sVrerthde ‘
. the poriderings pjf "t^y heart are just,j -fof
lt'w h fl that caused-them" to’^urh .vvhhih thee.' u|$
,tva& neV-ef my/ ju st ic e , nor e.ver mv d e c r e e ; tp
create iiEN td Suffer, ‘and,/??*’ the author, that.m nptf
them to e v i l y e ‘t M en are.endpvved with sense,apd
w ith reason arid as thou sayest they had m y .yisita^
tion from ageJf6lkge, to warn.them, to teach,them ,
to direct them', a fid to punish them, visibly in this
ittorld, that inert m igh t, know there was a pum.siiT
riient due to sin ; therefore if men were determined
to be rebellious, they ought to suffer for their xc-.
hellion ; .apd if men will give thqnselves up tp hearts
cruelty,'they ought to suffer for their cruelty j
and,this in -thyow n heart thou sayest isj^st. A nd
now I shall com e to the creation of man : ,What
I said' before he fell— it was not good for the man to
Digitized by Google
202 TRUE EXPLANATIONS OP THE ELBIJS. 1
Ini' v T
f!' " r.ci * r" ' W
be alone, I would make a helpmate for him. Now i
you say that helpmate catted the Fall;, ,bilt by whose n
arts did she cause it ? ,Thou7
sayest by the Dftvil. 3
♦Then on hfahead she cast i t ; ahd on his head 1 plao-. s
ed i t : But kndw, in the garden the^tk^e of lire *
was preserved for man.— N ow I shill go bach 19 ;t
thy pondering thoughts of the Creation., j
hardened Pharoah’s heart, to shew my visible judgv ,*
trients in this world,' so I put pondertngs in thyjhfftff 5
to answer the' wbrld at large ^hereby j fpr tjby' ,
thoughts .arrthd thoughts o£ thousands— w h y.d $ ‘
J *
Create Man 1o VeiMset<fble t I answer ; I creatgd\^9Jj
to be perfectin' h arn ess : and perfect in iiappi^ss .j
are millions;‘Which ^vvillJb e' till time is ,no.more j ,
then their happiness1
arid heavenly joys will be.vlsjbly ,
seem- -Then why'should I,keep back tH^t Jhappines$. i;
from 'Man ? Or whj/ should I not create a r^ce to (ag 1
happy', because all would not accept that l^ppupess?
Now T;.shallcotrfe tb the ptoob. Wbeti^ne^whol#
WOrld jiaS hardened ip: sih1
, jand. tfeeit* hgarts ■wijfj '>
bent-fo ;ido;evil', ‘woilld my prolonging tn?if.byes •
havie been ia blessing to them, that they might add L
krrt to sin, and. make their punishment the.gfe/iter l
Yhoiu sayest no : then 'Where wps the ^iffereoep.of ,‘
lily patting ft stop to their sin in a dayy that they '
iriight encrehse no more in it,' or letting them live a
little longer in this world, and spent'than off one i
byh One, without any visible sign ? . y^Quld theit
punishment have been the less ? I tellthee,.No:; but
now as I cut off the race of Man in a.day, that fiad
liorte’of MY Spir it within them, so will I cut off
all the powers of darkness, .Whose spirit is opposite to .'
Min e : and as l saved N oah in .the a r r , wherein
my Sp ir it dwelled, so will I preserve men,who
long for my Spir it to be within them ; and ,as I
told N oah how to make the ark, so I have told
thee every particular, hdw to make the ^rk of the
new covena'nt that is between God and Mam
and how I shall destroy all the vyorks o f fip Devil,
■
■
Digitized by G o o g le
b n S'Iop t h S biviftfe v isit a t io n Td mAn . 40$
Know w h it I said to N oah after the flood, I do set
m y bow in the douds, ind it. stlill be fot a token
o f a covenant between me and the earth.. aN ow mark
m y next visitation to M an— Lfetusgodowfi and there
confound theif language, that they may fnot under­
stand one another's speeches. ' Then fottoweth my
Visitation to AbrAhA#, ah<l' the great Promise I
m ade to him* for his Obedience. Thien followeth
.m y visitation to J acob, and to J oseph. 'All were
blessed through-the obedience. Of AbbahAm, till it
cam e to' Mosfesr Then a king rosfe that.knew not
G od ; then came on. their afflictions; and then
came their deKverande. Ahd now I tell thee, the
T ype of Pharoah te already began in Satan : my
commands have been obeyed as they were by N oah*
'.tfWheri I destroyed the world of sin ; and now I will de­
stroy the Man of Sin, which is the Devil, with all his
host, ahd all-his pow er; as I destroyed Pharoah', and
all his host* for pursuing after the childreft of Israel,
so will I overthrow S^tan for pursuing those whom I
forbid. . For the perfect obedience of Abraham,
Isaac, and Jacob, has beenhere ; and in this perfect
and true obedience all the families o f the earth
shall bb b.lessbd, that will Join with thee ; let
them be as die heahx of'bNte man united together
in faith ; and I will free them, as I freed the chil­
dren of Israel; for I told thee, that was a Type of
the last days; and kndw how Pharoah was destroy­
ed, that pursued after them, and how I destroyed
their enemies, that "were*before them* who had nq
-• knowledge of a G od. = ;
So here the Type stands deep for Man—
%
Thy pondering thoughts Tshall go on
Thou judged it cruelty in me,
When ^|I those,nations thou didst see
* That By the Jews I did cut oft,
And so thejr kings,[ brought to nought^ . '
And all their people Jdi’
d slay; * ' ♦
Thou judg'd itliafd rhy’feifddfdlay—
But l shail answer as before :
la nought but sin they did appear,
C c 2
Digitized by Google
T And If their lives I had prolong’d,
T . Iaskwhat good to tbeurtwoold done ? _ ...
r Because thou knowest that all must die*.
’ And in the grave forgotten lie :
And so in death they did appear ; '
' But they are not forgotten here,
Because it stands upon record,
The wondrous working^of the Lord $ 1
, Whpn that itiy people I did free j .
Behind I drown’
d their enemy, » .
' And then before them f did go, /
TH1I’d destroyed their every foe. v ; , ,:
> Now here’s thc^adow of the last; .
The Type stands deep h6w I shhll burst 5 .
Now I am come to make an ehd, : m x
Thb is the way the whole shall bend, t^ t ,
The enemy doth now pursue, ‘ v .
’ As Pharoah dtd at first; * '■ ‘
Because that m£, he well doth know* •; ;;
I’m colhe to Lave him cast, -
' My friends to free from misery, ’
But he’ll not let them go;
But doth pursue, 1 well do know,
Like Pnaroah he doth do ;
But 1T1go on the same with him-
As Moses did at first;
1 tell you ’tis my strong intend
That way it now shall burst
The shadow there that did appeal ' - ,
Shall now be done for Man ; ^
And Satan is the Pkaroak hert, [ '
And so his doom shall come; ; . ,
v And so behind, they all shall find* . , ,
Though he do follow close, . *
I tell thee, bow wy every mind ' '
Is to destroy his host. ■ .
, Then I’ll 50 through, they all shall know*
And smite the foes before; '
. For every nation now shall know ; *
Their end isdrawing negn
The Promise great, without deceits ' ‘’ ’
Shall surely come to Man ; •;; «
For Abraham s faiths I now shall clear# ;
in thee it hath been strong; . ’J
Then Isaacs see, and Jacobs be .
. Now joined with the word,
And in obedience I do see *
How they believe their Lord. .
So Jacob's sons they now may come, ;,
Believers may appear; " ,
They'll find my Promises are strongs f\
As I have spoken here. * .
And so the lands they now do Stand ‘
Like Israelschosen race, . ,
TKUE EXPLANATION^ OP THE BIBLE#*
digitized by C j O O ^ I c
?TPSS OP PHAAOAH AND THE ISRAELITES. 2Qf
-That Til redeem from Satan’s hand,
JPorso the end shall burst;
So he behind, you all do had, .
Like Pharoan to pureue:
And from the Type my Bible stands--*1
Bring aB before your view:
The heathens here must surely fear,
. They'll perish like the Kings;
Because the likeness 1shall clear,
The ending of the thing. -
* 1tell you Men, for shadows strong
My Bihle came so first;
And from the shadows I'll go on
Till every likeness burst.
When they were free you all do see
What wonders I did do; •
How 1 destroy'd their enemy*
That was Before their view.
These shadows here 1now shall dear—
The nations do abound,
But their destruction they may fear;
My friends shall now be found
My lands to claim, they shall.be mine#
My chosen to enjoy;
And every Foe, they now shall know,
1shall them all destroy.
Now perfect as theJews ofold
Mankind do now appear;
For though the truth to them was told*
Thou knowest, in deep despair
Did many go, thou well dost know,
Before they saw the end;
Their unbelief they strongdid shew*
No wondersmade them bend,
. The end to see in faith to mk.
And so to Manappear;
Because the End they do not see
Fulfilled in one year;
Then they turnback, and they do droop^
As Israeldid of old.
Thinking thatI to Man must stoop,
As 1my mindhave told,
To tell them plain 1shall redeem
From every sore distress;
They think it hasty most be seen#
Or 1 do them oppress.
So now I’ll clear like Israel here
My chosen Men are come;
Josephs and Calebs 1have here
Amongst my chosen men;
Their minds, I see, are bent in Mt
.The End for to go through;
And others like the Jews they be,
Their murmuring 1do know.
Digitized by G o o g l e
1 „ ». ; , J . „ i i - x. - \ ' I I /; .1 A. 11 *1 H ; ' ' • * - ! »
TBUE EXPLANATIONS OP TH E B l£ L < *
Thou now seest Men like them become
And like the Jews appear ; ’ ' 1' ^
They think deliverance must be cbme*I
I£I have spoken here | *
I f ’t be nbt so they back will £<v
Ne’er wait to see the end:
And from these shadows you mdst kndw»
Just lil$e the Chapters penn’d ^
Do all appear, I tell thee here, *
Believers do complain, t
* As their deliverance don’t appear.
The promised land to gain;
They cannot wait to see their fate,
Of what is hastening on,
Though all the nations they do see
In wars anj. tumults Come. *
Then I’ll go through, they all shall know#
As I went through before;
I surely will destroy their Foe,
And bring him to the shore;
So he behind his death shall find* '
L<ike Flmroah now to fall;
The Foes before now in the war,
I’H surely conquer a ll;. -
The nations all they down shall fall*
That will not stoop to me; *
The promis’d land.I now shall call
Ajdd to my people give,; * * -
That Abrahams here in taith appear,
And, Jacobs to go on: '
From Isaac see the Type of me-*-
I ro$e again for M an;
So he the §ame, and Jacob came*
And so I shall go on, A
* Till Jacobs here do strong appear# <
■
*
And Josephs to be found; •
* And Moses see the Type of MEi
How that in every sound 1 •
I visit there, let Mau see clear,
AnJ,so I’ll visit on,
Till all my Foes destroyed are,
My Kingdom then shall come.
The Shadows first to them did burst*** ,
But $at$n was not bound,
And so their pleasures did not last*
They sinn’a in every sound. -
But now I’m come to make an end,'
For to destroy their Foe, •
And I’ll bring in a happy reign,
My chosen friends shall know
That from the first the whole rrtust bursty
As it id then appear; - V
^t was to bring it to the last, ■- •*
' My Bible stands so there*
Digitized by Google
* H * . $ P £ J$ JL 9 ? fT , JQfW,-rr;Sp,ii$. Off
So every land see bow they stand,
r Attd evfery shadow s^e; * '
.. §atan bound bv dray comj»*uid, , j
My Sealed people be,
' Like Israel theVe do some appekr *
To npurmur at my Word;
They judge! deliverance it was.near,
Ana then fell from their Godj
Because too soon, Tsay, ere noon. -
Th^y judg’d the day must end*
That alt these wonders I must do, .
No longer they’d depend,
To tVust in me, 1plain do see,
So Israel’s seed is here;
Joshuas see, and Calebs be, .
. In faith dp £ome appear.
So every sign call thou to mind .
’
As thou hast ponder'd through.
t u t ebS^EL Q^ ST1 JOHN;
~ rj : : • », ' \ -t*..,*, . //. ■ .>;
:Jofw fd.. 15j.;16^rr4ri<l.as Moses, lifted rup*he
Serpeptip;the Wilderhfs& &ren #o must did Sow
pF M a*J bftdifted o p : that whosoever believeth in
hiru s^puld nc^t peFish.i hut have ettmfelr life.'. For
God ;s$ loved the?
world, that he gave his only begdr-
tep.^op, that iwlK^^pevpf beiieveth lo hiin should not
pejrisb^ but.,haveeventing, life. ;r ;• ihw
THE ANSWER d ^ H E ,tdRD:
“ Now I shall answef thee from1 these words.
They stand perfectly to tjie Gentiles, as die Law did
to the Jews, to all them that believed ip m e , and
telied on me for SaTi’ajtlori j. buj OQ,w,,‘
ip coming the
fu lf ilm en t of itu G e At h / to bring ' in M an’s
R e d e m p t io n . Npw.con^e to ' verst; j ^ r —For God
sent not his- Son into the. world to Condemn the
world; but that- the world through hip/ might be
saved. Then now,answer m e , ye worldly wise men,
how the world can be saved through m e , if I do not.
destroy all the k-orks of fl(e£)eyili ji& i$ prophesied
of me ; and as I said I should come again', and take
Out of my Kingdopj ^U tfyat.offend • T W e that are
now believing in me for Salvation, without believing
ip m e for Kedemption, are like the sons of Eli, who
Digitized by Google
pretended to offer the sacrifice, but not according as
the L ord had commanded them ; for.though.they
were rhe sons of JE£li, yet they were sons ofjBelial, that
knew not the L ord. N ow perfectly ^so is it with
the G ospel ; for though inert profess to bechildren
of those that believe the Gospel, and the Apostles
'th at brought in the Gospel yet, they are as far de­
parted from the Gospel, a3 Eli’s sons were departed
from their father, and from all the ordinaHces of the
L o rd ; and so they are departed from the Gospel.
Now what honour do men bring to m e , to say, I
died a shameful Death on the Cross, to cast out all
the Jews, and bring in a few people to believe in
m e , and save..a few. that are righteous ?.• W ere not
the righteous saved before ? Where is the njerit
ydu qmike of my Death and Suff&rin^s^ that 'the
world).through *
m e might- bo saved ? Thferi kno#-,
if the wdrid be saved through m E, I 'miisf destroy
hiirt that: hath the power o f Death, whithW the Dei
v iL T h e n are you riot like E li’s sons, that ktioW
not HheLord, nor the power of h is m i-
g h t , neither
will you giveME the honour due unto m y N a m e !
For jxqw to I. here shall answer t
Ftom th i L lw inil G o s p e l seti*
• f ,^X thatraj^ thy eyely J4ASTE* ( ' .
*' Now will fully answer thee*
i ~ A s’ttrasbefore doth now appear*
:r s a,reqomej! t , .
. * M v.honour thoy will never clear, , , 7
y • >
l<iievway Men1now go on.
W ;il before threir view : . i
' ^ ’hev uever will allow: > -A. - |
' *~Thdt ^hat 1 said Id surely do— * "
r. r;^jLOVaiOimorliils tell'mehow * ‘ 5
,, YQu.fan,believeloud d*at deceives, / ; ’ ; : ; *
*
* You say/ in every word ? ,
/# F ir if G6spLl\1o stop here • - *J1
y { Von ednnoi, pjx>ve the d u e a d / . • i.
Canie down iV
oid H eaven, for Man w^s
‘H 1V
> be the Bread of L ife, ;
Tl'ai is ton all-' wnen I do call, " ^
Xo eu4 your every strife. >
Stranswer hero, let men appear,
: My Gospei let tkem aoe ^
•;;/ -id . w; . • ? ^
ib 8 > W V i EXPLANATIONS OP THE felB&E. '
t»/1
z \
t
t
"\.
: *
. 1
• f f i r;
' It
given
- ' i
Digitized by Google
_ /
f t . JOHN*®Gt»Plt..-*COMFoRT6R PitO&iSEl). 20Q
Then tell ME>how they'll batflehere*
My Spirit cannot b«
So strong with Man, when I do com*
To make the final End ? .
For in my Gospel mhst be shewn
My Spirit I should send.” '
John 5dv. l6 , to the trtd—And I will ptay the Fa­
ther, and lie shall give you another Comfortef, that
he may abide with you .for ever ; even the Spirit of
truth, whom the world Cannot receive, because it
teeth him not, neither knoweth him : but ye know
him, for he dwelleth with you, and shall be in you.
At that day ye shall know that I am in my Father,
and ye in me, and I in you.— He that hath my
commandments and keepefh them, he k is that lo-
Veth me : and he that loveth me Shall be loved of
fay Father, and I will love him, and Will‘’manifest
myself to him.—Jesus answered and saiduntohim ,
if a man love mb, he Will keep my words: ahd- mV
Father will love him, and we will cbm eunfdhim ,
and make nut abode with him.—These things haye
I spoken unto you, being yet present with you.—
But the Comforter, which is the H dy Ghost, whom „
the Father will Send in my name, he shall teach
you all things, and bring all things to your remem­
brance, whatsoever I have said unto you.—And now
I have told you before it come to pass, that when it
is come to pass ye might believe.
THE. ANSWER OF THE LORD*
“ Now let the world answer m e, whether they think;
these sayings of mine alluded only to my disciples' ?
or Whether they think they Were spoken for believers
at die End ? Know, I said I am with you to the
E n d ; but was I with my disciples to the end of their
Says in the body? Thou answerest, N o; then it is
ir. the Sp ir it that I must be with you in the End ;
. and how can men allude my sayings to my disciples
only f For know, 1 answered, if a man love me, he
will Iceep MY words. Now if I spoke thus only
D d
Digitized by Google
to my disciples, then I must not mean for other be­
lievers to keep my words ; but these words were
spoken to every man that' was a believer, for ages t&
come; and for all that would be believers, it was
left 09 record. Then mark what followeth: m t
F ather will love him, and we will come unto him*
and make our abode with him ; but how is this visi­
tation to be ? Is it not sai£ •before, by the Sp ir it ,
even the Spir it of truth that the world cannot
:see ? Then how do you wrest the Scriptures, pro­
fessing Godliness and denying the power thereof ?
-While I was yet with them, I plainly told them
what should happen in the End. . But did the other
.Oomjfort-er come then to abide with men for ever ?
.1 tell you, No ; the other Comforter is the fulfil­
ment of MT WORD, at MY SECOND CoMINO .in
T ower to destroy all the works of the D evil j but
-fthat Comforter must first come in the Sp ir it ,
Whom -the Father sendeth in my N a m e ; there-
‘fppe* I ieft it on record, -that men might know in
..what manner my visitation would be, when I came
;t0 warn in the Spirit ; not as any visible sight> that
.appeared unto M oses, when I appeared unto him
.in the bush, and after followed him through the de-
.Eert of the wilderness they were in. Then was my
•.appearance visible; but know I told you, at the
lastt that my visitation would be in the. Sp ir it s
and now I am come in the Spir it and in T ruTh,
to bring in mt Kingdom and abide with you for
_-ever. But this the world cannot receive, because
<they: see me not. The Jews saw and did rnthe-
, lieve; and when the angels visited them, how many
were rebellious at the same time ? Yet others bid
..belieye, and by their beliefprevented the judgments:
, but was my visita tio n to be the same now, as it
"was in the days of Moses, where could the fulfil-
!snent of my Gospel be ? or how could I grove that I
..came.into the world to place mt Spir it in man, if
J d$ not vuit in the Sp ir it withoist. visiting as 1,4w
1
310 TRUE EXPLANATIONS OF THE BtBLBr
'Digitized by Google /
• / bid? Then m y D o m i n g could have made no
change; but as my Coming has made d change t<
>
come i
n
v
i
s
i
b
l
e
, instead of visible, it is to ’destroy all
the i
n
v
i
s
i
b
l
ee
v
i
l
, that ye know and feel, to yoni*
sorrow, without s
e
e
i
n
g
. So when I . appeared
visible to Moses, I ordered the Beastthat was v
i
s
i
b
l
e
to be s
l
a
i
n
, but noW I a m c o m e i
n
v
i
s
i
b
l
e to Man,
they neither see m e , neither believe m e ; but aS
many as do believe, my Father and I will come
unto them, and take up o u r a b o d e with them, anc|
the things that ire i
n
v
i
s
i
b
l
eshall be seen v
i
s
i
b
l
y
i
when I destroy all the works of the Devil. Now See
what changes have taken place in the Bible ; then
what a happy change must take place in the End,'
when I come to change the whole and bring the
T ree of Life to Man, that wa3 preserved for
him in the Fall,”
Now come to the Gospel of S
t
. John i. g—That
was the true light, that lighteth every man that
cometh into the world. Ver. 10-—He was in the
world, and the world was made by him,’and the'
world khew him not, Ver. 12—But as many as re­
ceived him, to them gave he power to become the
sons of God; even to them that believe on his Name.
Ver. 17— For the law was given by M oses, but grace
and truth came by J esus Christ.- Ver. '2y—John
seeth Jesus coming unto him, saith, behold the’
Lamb of God which taketh away the s:nof the world.
Ver. 51--’And Jesus said, verily, verily, Isay unto
you, hereafter ye shall See Heaven open, and the
angels of God ascending and descending upon the
Son of Man,- Chap. iii. b—That which is born
of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the
Spirit .is Spirit.* Ver, 15*—That whosoever believeth
in him should not perish. Ver. 21— He that doeth
truth cometh to the light, that his deeds may be
made manifest, that they are wrought in God ; but
every one that doeth evil hateth- the light, nei­
ther cometh. to the 'light lest his deeds should be
d % (-> ,
Digitized by v j O O Q I C
St . jorn’s oostel.—
-christ thbtrue £ig^
ht. till
$12 TRU$ RXFLANAT-IGNS 01 MBtB.'
reproved. Chap. iv. 14—
^Whosoever drinketh o f the-
Water that I shall give him shall never< thirst ; bat
the water that I shall give him shall be in him a wctf
pfwater springing up intoeverlasting life.
THE ANSWER OE THE LORD.
” Now, Joanna, .stop with these words; as these
Are words.no man understood, what that water
m eant; for all. who have believed in mb have been
thirsting for water nr something to drink. • But now.
I shall go bade to the beginning. I came to be a
light to lighten; every tnan that Cometh into the
world; but can you say, every man that has come
into the world already is enlightened by Ms ? or
Walketh in that light ? I tell thee,. N o ; I was in the
World, and the world knew me n ot; but as many as
received m e, to them I gave power to become
sons of God, even to them /who believed in my
name, But.how do men believe, in my n ame ? D o
they believe I am the Lamb ofGod that taketh away
the an of the world ?And were the .sins o&tbe world
ever taken away ? Then know, O man, if I come
to take them away, I must fu lfil my coming
and take them away. Therefore I said, ye must be
born again ; and'what is born of the-flesh is flesh,
and what is born of the spirit is spirit. Now when 1
come to destroy the work? of the •flesh, that the
D evil hath ivorked in the hearts of meri to set them
to do evil, and place my Spir it withintheni, then
they will be born of the Sp ir it , which is of God,
and not after the flekh, which is the Fall of Man. But
lie that doeth evil hateth the light, and loves to
abide in the Darkness ofthe Fall; but he that loveth
the l ig h t , and wishes to come to the truth of
Mr Gospel, he will come to the lig h t of the
tru th , that the truth may be made manifest that
the work is wrought in G od for your .redemption.
And this is the fountain of l iv in g watbb, that if
Aman drinkthereofhe will thirst.nomore} forwhen
Digitized by Google
the wells of salvation are come to men, then will;
rivers of joy be flowing within them ; and they will
Hot be thirsting like the children of Israel, that
thirsted to go back to the flesh-pots of E g y p t; nei­
ther will they be thirsting, after Gods to their h u rt;
b u t when they have drank deep into my Sp ir it ,
in my Spirit they will long to abidb, and thirst no
more to depart from i t ; lor then they will find that
G od is a spir it , and they will worship him in
s p ir it and in t r u t h ; and know that Christ is
the S aviour of the world : for I come to seek and
to save that which is lost; and Man was lost by the
Fall; but know that I come to redeem them front
the Fall; therefore, I said I should give them liv ­
in g waters, to thirst no more. Now I tell thee,
these things were not understood; therefore the Jews
persecuted me, and sought to slay. ME, because I
did many miracles on the Sabbath,'notconsidering
that the Son of God was Lord of the Sabbath. But
when I come to fulfil the Sabbath, to make it a da t
o r rest for man, and make that day a thousand
years ; then they will know I am Lord of that,
thousand years; therefore I worked many miracles
«n the Sabbath day, to shew how I should deliver
my people, and bqw I should hail them, for't h a t
P ay that is at hand, the Sabbath, a rest for
man ! and that Sabbath shall be a thousand years,
wherein every day -shall be a day of rest ; as I
worked my miracles withoutmaking any distinction of
days, so shall perfect happiness flow to Man without
distinction‘of days ; for every day shall be a day of
restj~ that meaneth, they shall rest from sorrow,
they shall rest from sin, they shall r ^ t from pain,
and from sickness, they shall rest from strife and from
contentions, they shall resc from wars and tumults.
Then they may see the truth of my G ospel— that
now I have given them the fountain 6f l iv in g wa­
ters ; it is a well of joy, a well of salvation,
that they may thirst no more, when they are called
with an everlasting call, and saved with an
Digitized by 1C
S*. JOHN’S GOSPEL— THB LIVING WATERS. 2.13
H ' 4 ' ■ TRITE -EXPL.ANATIONS OS' Tftfi BIBLE.
EVERLASTING SALVATION.” John V. 44—H ow can
ye believe, which receive honour one of another,
and seek not the honour that cometh from God only ?
“ Now I shall answer, before thougoest further : if
ye seek the honour of men, the honour of men must
fetish i but if ye seek the honour of God, then you
will believe in all his words, and be looking for the
honour that cometh down' from above : that is the
honour of his W ord, the honour of his T ruth, the
power of his Sp ir it , that Go-
d might be all in all.
And when God is all in all, then know the works of
the Devil must be destroyed ; for how can a man be
all in all while he hath a rival standing between ? And
the r iv a l stands in S atan , between God and man.”
. Chap.: in A— Tf thou do these things, shew
thyself to the world; for neither did his brethren
believe in him. Then said J esus unto them, my
,ti;.a
c is not yet home. If any man will do his will, he
shall know of the doctrine whether it be of G od, or
whether 1 speak of myself. The officers answered,
never man spake like this man. Then answered them
the Pharisees, aye ye also deceived ? Have any of the
rulers, or of the Pharisees believed on him ? But
this people who know not the law are cursed. Nico-.
demus saith unto, them, doth our,law judge any man,
before it hear him, and know what he doeth, ? Chap,
viii. 17— Is it not written in your law that the testi­
mony of two men is true ? I am one that bear wit­
ness of .myself, and the Father that sent. mb
peareth witness of me. If the Son therefore
shall make yon free, ye shall be free indeed.
He that is of God heareth God’s words ; ye ttyere-t
fore hear them not, because ye are not of God.
Then the Jews said unto him, say we not well, thou
hast a Devil ? Jesus answered, I have not a Devil j
blit I honour my Father; and ye do dishonour me.
Chap. x. 4— When he *putteth forth his own sheep,
he goeth before them, .and the sheep follow him ;
for they know his voice. A stranger will they not
Digitized by Google
s t . John’s cospsl.—christ sh ew sh is opf-ic e ; * ^
follow, but will flee from him ; for they know not
the voice of strangers. But ye believe not, because
ye are not of my sheep; as I said unto you, my
sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they
follow me ; and no man is able to pluck them out
o f my F ather’s hands. I and my F ather are
o n e . Then the Jews took'up stones again to stope
him. Chap. xii. 31— Now is the judgment of this
world; now shall the prince of this world be cast
out. And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will
draw all men unto m e. Chap. xiii. 19—Now I tell
you before it come, that when it is comp to pass, ye
may believe that I am h e. Verily, verily, I say
unto you, he that receiyeth whomsoever I send, re-
ceiveth me and receiveth him that sent me. Chap.
otvi. 7- If I go not away the Comforter will pot
come unto you; but if I depart I will send him unto
you ; and'when he is come he will reprove the world,
o f sin, and of righteousness, and of judgments;
o f sin, because they believe not in me ; of righteous­
ness; because I go to my F ather and ye see me no
more ; of judgment, because the prince of this
world is judged. I have yet many things to say
unto you, but you cannot bear them now. Howbeit
when he, the Spir it of T ruth, is come, he will
guide you into all Truth,;./for he shall not speak of
himself; but whatsoever lie shall hear,, that shall bn
speak: and he shall shew you things to come, he shall
glorify m e : for he shall receive oi mine; and sba.il
shew it unto you. Ver. 24—Hitherto, ye have ask­
ed nothing in my name ; ask, and ye shall receive,
that your joys may be full. . These things have I
spoken unto you in Proverbs ; but the time someth
when I shall no more speak to you in Proverbs, but
I shall shew you plainly of the F ather. At that day,
ye shall ask in my name : and I ,say not unto you,
that I will pray the F a t h er for ypu: for the .F ather
himself loveth.you, because ye have loved me. Chap.
xvii. 26—
-I have declared unto them tiiy nam e,
^ndwill declareit; that the love wherewith thou hast
Digitized by Google
« i 6 t * 9 t k m k n o u t s o# t h s * m £
loved mb may be in them, and'I in them. Cltaju
xviii. Vb—When he had thus spoken, one of the
officers struck Jesus with the pakn of his hand, say­
ing, answerest thou the High Priest so ? Jesus an­
swered him, if I have spoken evil, bear witness of
the ev il; but if well, why smitest thou me ? Pilate
therefore said unto him, art thou a King ? Then
Jesus answered, thou sayest'that I am a K ing; to
this end was I born; and for this cause came I into
the world,, that I should bear witness unto the truth;
every one that is of the truth heareth my voice.
Chaf. xx. 14—‘She turned herself back and saw Je­
sus standing, and knew not that it was Jesus. Jesijis
saith unto her, Woman why weepest thou ? She
saith unto him, Sir, if thou have borne him hence,
tell me where thou hast laid him. Jesus saith unto
her, Mary ! She turned herself and saith unto him,
-rKabboni 1. which is to say, Master.
THE ACTS OF THE APOSTLES.
Acts i. 7— And he said unto them, it is not for yo*
to know the times, or the seasons, which the P ath eh
hath put in his own power. But ye shall receive pow­
er, after that the H olt G host is come upon you 5
<nd ye shall be witnesses unto me, both in Jerusalem,
and in all Judea, and in Samaria, and unto the utter-
mostparts of the earth. And when he had spoken these
•things, while they beheld, he was taken u p ; and a
cloud received him out of their sight. And While
they looked stedfa.stly towards Heaven^ as he went
up, behold two men stood by them in white ap­
parel; which also said, ye men of Galilee, why
stand ye gazing up into Heaven ? this same Jesus,
which is taken up from you into Heaven, shall so
come in like manner, as ye have seen him go into
Heaven. Chap. ii. 38—-Be baptized in the name of
J esus C hrist for thejemission of sins, and ye shall
receive the gift of the H oly Ghost ; for tlxe Pro­
mise is unto you, and to your children, and to all
that are afar off, as mafly as the Lord our God shall
Digitized by Google
call. Chap. iii. 19—Repent ye and be converted,
that your sins nir.v be blotted out, when the times
of refreshing 'shall come from the presence of the
Lord ; and he shall send J esus Christ, which b *
fore was preached unto you, whom the heavens
must receive until the times of restitution of all
things, which God hath spoken by the mouth of
all his holy Prophets, since the world began. Chap.
v. 16—There came also a multhude out of the cities
round about-unto Jerusalem, bringing sick folks and
them that were vexed with unclean spirits : and they
were healed every one by the disciples. Then the
High Priest rose up, and all that were with him,
which is the sect of the Sadducees, and were filled
with indignation, and laid their hands on the
Apostles, and put them in the common prison.
Per. 28, 2Q—Did we not strictly command you,
that ye should not teach in this name ? and, be»
hold, ye have filled Jerusalem with your doctrine.
Then Peter and the Apostles answered, we ought to
obey G od rather than Man ; and we arc his wit­
nesses of these things, and so is .also the H oly
G host, whom Gon hath given to them that obey
him. When they hoard that, they were cut to the
heart, and took council to slay them. Chap. xi.
15— And ns I began to speak, the H oly G host
fell on them, as 5n ns at the beginning ; forasmuch
as €>on gave them the like gift as he did unto us
who believed on the L obd J esus Chbjst. Chaps
xiii. 451
—But when the Jews saw the multitude,
they were filled with envy,- and spoke against those
things, which were spoken by Paul, contradicting
and blaspheming. , Then P aul grew bold, and.
said,, the wobd of G od should first have been spo­
ken to you; but seeing ye put it from you and
judge yourselves unworthy of everlasting life, lo,
tve turn to the Gentiles; for so hath 'the .Lord com­
manded us, saying, I have set thee to be a light to
the Gentiles, that thou ' skiuldest be. for salvation
E e
. Digitized by Google
ACTS.-—THE APOSTLES OPPOSED BY THE JEWS. 21/
unto the end of the earth. Chip. xiv. 3—But the
unbelieving Jews stirred up the Gentiles, and made
their minds evil'affected against the brethren. But
$he multitude of the city was divided: and part held
with the Jews, and part with the Apostles. Chap. xv.
16— After this I will return and will build again the
Tabernacle of David, which is fallen down; I will
build again the ruins thereof, and set it up : that
the residue of men might seek after the Lord ; and
all the Gentiles, upon whom mt name is called, saith
the Lord. Known unto God are all his works from
the beginning of the world. Per. 8-—And God, which
knoweth the hearts, b&areth them witness, giving
them the H oly Ghost, even so he did unto us, and
put no difference between us and them, purifying
their hearts by faith. Chap. xix. 39— But if ye
enquire any thing concernmg qther matters, if
should be determined in a lawful aflembly. Chap.
xxii. 7— An4 I fell unto the ground and heard a
Voice saying unto me, Saul, Saul, why persecutest
thou me? And I answered, who art thou, Lord?
And he said unto me, I. am Jesus of Nazareth,
whom thou persecutest. And they gave him audience
unto his words, and then lift up their voices and said,
away with such a fellow from the earth; for it is not fit
that he should live. Chap, xxiii. 9— And there arose
a great cry and .strife amongst them ; and the Pha­
risees part arose and strove, saying, we find no §vil
in this man ; but if a spirit or an angel have spoken
to him, let us not fight against God. Chap. xxviii.
33— But we desire to hear pf the*, what thou think-
est for us concerning this sect; we know that every
where it is spoken, against.
Now I am ordered tp pen the ponderings of my
own heart, *in reading through St. John and the Acts
of the Apostles ; and 1' now say, as I have said be­
fore, the Bible is a Looking-glass for all men to see
their own hearts, their.own ways, and their owq
318 TRUE EXPLANATtOHS OF TH B
Digitized by Google ‘
conduct, by every different classes of people: but I
bless God for the Law that is made under the Gos*-
p e l , that liberty of conscience is given unto every
•man, that the malicious and wicked cannot v,ent
out their malice by public rebellion, as they did in
Out Saviour’s days. But yet, in reading irty Bible
through, I!see a malicious spirit of rebellion1
, and
unbelief, in every age of the world ; and just the
same it is now, and ever will be, as long as the powers
of darkness have power to work in man against Godi,
Now I should think the Jews, many of them, and
the Sadducees, to be possessed with Devils, if I did
not see the same Spirits in men now ; but I see the
world isjust like the Jews, where doctrine isspoken
against; some despise it because it hath not the ge­
neral applause of the world; ahd thus appeared the
manner of the moderate Jews, in the last chapter of
the Acts; and-this appears like the modern Chris­
tians, in this age ; it is a religion that is notfashion-
able, nor applauded by the world; therefore they
will despis’
e ir. But when we come to weigh-the
Gospel, how it is spoken through of the H oly
G host being given to them that truly believed in
C h r ist , and how our Saviour promised to send it
in his name, to be the comforter and bring aN
things to youV remembrance ; yet this was not ful­
filled in the Apostles’ days ; neither was it promised
till the restoration of all things. Now if unbelief
abounded in the days of our Saviour, that neither of
his Brethren believed in'h im , what have I to mar­
vel now, in such an age as this, when I hear of
thousands mocking their Bible, turning it into every
ridicule, while others think they have nothing to do
only to trust in the merits of Christ, without striv­
ing to bring any honour or glory to his name,
by supporting that Gospel that others are mocking?
But how can men support that Gospel, when :hey
do not believe it true ? And I am sorry to say, the
people in this age are perfectly like those in the
E e 2
x Digitized by V j O O Q I C
REFLECTIONS OK 5T. JOHN’S GOSPEL Jilt0 ACTS. 2T<)
days of our Saviour, when the officers said, never
luan spake like this man ; and they answered, have
any of the rulers, or the Pharisees believed in h im J
JuSt so is the world now; have any of the Bishops
believed ? have any of the rulers and the great
men believed ? If they have not, those tnns.t befools
who believe the visitation of the Lobd to a simple
woman, as the Jews thought they were •fools to
think the L ord would let himself down so low,
that he who was born of a mean virgin and laid in a ,
manger, should be called the Son of God, and should
humbly bear all the insults and ridicule of mtmkindj
to be called the babbler, possessed with a Devil,
and who hid himself when they went to stone him I
This, by their worldly wisdom, could not appear to
be the wisdom and power of a G od ; but.how can
man believe he would condescend to go through all
the shameful treatment that he went through in this
world, if he would not condescend to visit again in
the S p ir it , according as he promised in the G os­
pel ? For when he speaketh of coming as the
true Shepherd, to be the Shepherd of all men,
as St. Joint x. appeareth to me—H e putteth for,th
his own sheep, he goeth before them, and his sheep
know his voice. Now these sheep, it appeareth to
me, are the true Believers, that believe in hjs Com­
ing in the Sp i r i t -to fulfil the G ospel: He goeth
before in SriuiT , and they hear his voice ; for that
is the manner he hath spoken of the Sp ir it , to be
Born of the Sp ir it , and hear the Sp ir it , as ye
hear the wind. And he saith, I know my sheep
and am known of mine ; other sheep I have, which
are not of this fold ; them al o must I bring in, and
fhey shall hear my voice ; and there shall be one
Fold and one Shepherd ? I laid down my life to
take it again. Now when can men say, there hath
been one Fold and one Shepherd ? Do not men,
mock the voice of Christ coming to teach in the
.Spir it ? Then you cannot say there is ope Shep-
420 TUUfi EXPLANATIONS OP THE BIBLE*
Digitized by Google
herd and one Fold to know his voice. You may
say there are ten thousand shepherds and ten thou­
sand folds, who preach different doctrines, one from
another: and thousands of Arians, that preach
against the Gospel. Then where is the oxe Sh e p ­
h e r d and the one F old, which our Saviour af­
firmed should be ? And to fulfil the Bible it must
te, that all might be taughtof the Lord, from the
greatest to the least; and the fulfilment of the
G ospel affirmeth it. But need I marvel of men's
saying I have a Devil, when they said our Saviour
had a Devil and was mad ? W hy hear ye him ?
Others say, can a Devil open the eyes of the blind ?
these are not the words of him that hath a Devil.
A nd perfectly so is the world at this day. Now let
me appeal to the - Christian world, whether they
think every one should nbuse our Saviour, because
the malice and unbelief of some were great ? Should
those that did believe desert him, because of his per­
secution ? If they did their sins must have been of
the deepest dye ; or should Paul have given up the
visitation of the L ord to him, because he was
mocked and despised by the Jews, and suffered such
persecution? or, because jestus toid him he was
beside himself and was mad ? But did Paul give up
to his words ? Did he not answer, I am not mad,
most noble Festus, but speak forth the words of
truth and soberness ?. Now what would men think
of Paul, if he had disregarded the visitation of the
Lord, to please the mad unbclic-vmg world ? W hat
profit is the world to him now? It is not all t! ;
praise and applause of man could have saved him in
the hour of Death, or in the day of Judgment, from
a fatal end, if he had drawn back. Then may I noY
say with Peter, who ought we to obey, God or
man ; judge ye ? See the fatal end of J udas^ who
began, to be a manf leaser ; but what comfort did he
feel from man, when he complained of his con­
scious,guilt, and„said he had sinned, in that he had
leKPLECTlONS ON ST. JOHX*S GOSPEL AN$ ACTS. 221
V
Digitized by Gooole
betrayedinnocent blood ? What was tkeirtmfelhng
answer t Whac is thait to tis ! . sc© thou to it'l
Now, here is the world in its true colours; if they
Can tempt men to sin against light and knowledge*
and afterwards find they have caused thtei® ruin, by
so doings they -only mock them for fooli. Thisi is
the pondering Of my healt frotli J u d a s 'a d d this
would be my case was I to deny th e visitation of thO
Lord,, to please the unbelieving world* and con­
scious guilt beguti to awaken’me, that I could not
bear the reflection of myself. Then the answer of
the world would be just the same, and I shoukLhkvb
no more comfort from the world, now than Judas
had ; therefore I look upon every one as a Judas 14
me, that wishes to persuade me to give Up the visi­
tation of the L oan, because they do not bddeveir;
P aul might as well have given up his visitation;
because the Jews did not believe him ; the pro­
phets might have given up their visitation^ because
the world did not believe-them s. and l thighras'well
■give up the Gospel, because I heard ir mocked by .
the Jews, and they did not believe it. For being
formerly in company with six Jews, they brought
forward their Bibles to prove our Saviour was net
the Messiah:; as they pointed Out the manner of
his coming to be according, to the second coming*
to be the Prince of Paece, and have the govern­
ment on m s shoulders. It is fruitless* here rd
pen the Scriptures they brought forward,: to prove
that the coining of Christ must be in honour and
glory to God, and to the redemption of man,
which I granted to be true ; but they would never
allow, that lie must first come to diefo r man; and
the Prophecies that prophesied of his death they
would not allow that they alluded to Christ ; and
on being asked what they meant, they answered,
they were chapters? they: never understood; and
what they never understood they, were not to look intot
And -now I see the, Gentiles arojust the•same. If I
222 TRU* EXPLANATIO N* OJ* THH »MRKBfc
Digitized by Google
JEW
S A n n GENTILES EOIJAW-?-GHMUSYING* 223
ask them what is meant by the.comforter being
sent, which is the H oly G h o st , whom the Fa ­
ther will send in h is Name, jhe shall teach you
dll thingsy and bring all things to your remem­
brance. Their answer would be like the J ews ; if it
did not allude tp the Holy Ghost being sent to the
J&qples, that time, they did not know what it
tneant; and as they d>d not know what it meant,
they would, not allow th a t. any other should know.
So. here stand .Jews ahd Gentiles together; and 1
would as soon rely on the one as on the other; for
he that wiU believe one prophecy and not another,
isnobeliever at all. Now the meaning of the H oly
Grost, the Comforter, being sent' in h is n a m e ,
cannot appear to me to allude to the Disciples; be­
cause our S a v io u r was then present, anti taught
them,in his F a t h e r ’s N am e, that he was the S on
of Go b , which they believed, and received the
Power of the H o ly G h o st, as he promised them;
then what new doctrine was then sent in h is n a m e ,
to teach them all things that concerned h im ? Do
not these things allude to the End ? Did he mean
his Gospel was only to his Disciples ? or, did he al­
lude it equally the same to the generations that
should arise after them, that were true believers in
the merits of h is death and sufferings, till he had
brought in ajl his Sheep as one F old ? Then if it
alludes unto all, he saithl a m the v in e , ye are the
branches; he that abideth in m e , and I in him, the.
same bringeth forth much fruit; for. without m e,
ye can do nothing; but he saith, I will pray the
Father, and he shall give you another Comforter,
that he may abide with you for ever, even the S pi­
rit of T r u t h , whom the world cannot receive, be­
cause it seetli h im not. Here our Sa v io u r plainly
affrms, that h is visitation shall be in the S p ir it ,
which no roan knoweth, nor no man seeth ; but he
says, it shall, be with you, and shall dwell in you.
Now whom -can the S p ir it pf Trux^ visit tp be
Digitized by Google
224 ' TRUE EXPLANATIONS OP THE SI2LE.
with, and to be in, .but those that believe G od is
t r u e , the G ospel is true, and that Christ will
visit in the Sp ir it , according as he spoke in
his Gospel ? Now this, have I believed, and this
have I received ; for in this manner hath all my vi­
sitation been, perfecily as our Saviour spoke in the
Gospel; but this the world cannot receive, because
they do not believe what they cannot see ; for being
visited within by the Spir it of G od, and the Pow­
er of the Holy G host, though our Saviour af­
firmed it should be ; yet it appearcth as erroneous to
thousands, that profess they believe the Gospel, as
it appeareth to the J$jys erroneous to believe the
G ospel at all. But I have net so learnt C hrist,
b u t believe his words to be true, that h e is with
his followers to the end, that believe in h im . But
how can a man profess he believes in the G ospel,
and not believe one quarter what he said ? D id not
our Saviour say, I cornea l ig h t into the world,
that whosoever believeth in me should not abide in
darkness ? But if the judgment of- the world be
true, we must abide in darkness without the know­
ledge of God, without the knowledge of Christ;
or what h e meant by his G ospel, or what he meant
by his second coming', or what he meant by so
often speaking of sending the Comforter, sending
the H oly G host, sending the Sp ir it of T ruth.
For all these appear dark sayings to the world;-
So that through unbelief they abide in darkness; and
will not come to the light, because from the Gos-
pel they must be reproved : but shall we follow a
multitude to do evil ? Shall I blind my eyes and
stop my ears, because the unbelieving world are de­
termined to blind their eyes, that in seeing they
will not see, nor in hearing they will not. under­
stand ? Now in pondering through the Bible, I
see the resolute spirits of men, that where they give
Satan, power to work in them, they are determined
be resolute against the Truth ? for how did thtr
Digitized by Google
»KRySM£trV3S Of TUB JIlVS'lfflCRMKLIflRD. l a s
<hief priests consult drat they might put Lazarus tor
death, because m any o f the Jews believed on J e s u s *
. when be lad raised Lazarus from the grave ? Now
if thin be the perverse hearts of men, it might welt
be said* cursed is man who trusteth in man, and’
maketh flesh his stay! Now how perverse were the .
Jews 1 when our Saviour cured a man who was born
blind bow did they try to confound the man, who'
was born blind* that he should not acknowledge
that it was doae by the power and goodness of
Gob ! But remember the map’s answer; if this
3RAI* was not of G ob he could do nothing. But
they answered, thou wert altogether born in sin ;
and dost thou teach us ? add they cast him out.
Now what a perverse spirit must have been in' men*
to cast a man out from among them, who believed
in the Loan that had wrought so great a miracle
Upoa him, and bestowed so great a blessing unto
him ; that he that was born blind should have th'e
blessing to see the sun,. which they themselves,
though having eyes, could not see by what sun he
received his sight! a blessing they could not.give to
him; yet it was a blessing they wished to take from
him, by trying to fill his heart with ingratitude to
deny the' Lord that had opened his eyes! Thus, I
see the perverse heart of man throughout the Gos­
pel ; and thus I see they are working with MB,
casting my name out as evil, because I will not.act
*ungratefully unto the Lord, who has opened mjf
blind eyes ; for in a spiritual sense I was born as blind
as the man, and I grew up blind as the man, before
. the visitation of the L ord came to me, to open the
eyes of my understanding, and shew me the true
lig h ;t of his G ospel, the true l ig h t of the Bi­
ble, and the true l ig h t of the P romise that was
made in the Fall. So 1 may say, like one that was
dead, I am brought to life ; for as the transgression
$£ the Woman brought Death into the world', so the
Jylfibnent of the P rom ise bringeth E ^ a andlM-*
• Digitized by Google
m o rta lity to light. So because this truth shall
not be believed, they would put me. to ddath, as
they wanted to put Lazarus to death ! But- these
ate my own ponderings, how much the :world, ap­
peared now like the days of old, and how they are’
persecuting novo C hrist com ing in the Sp ir it , the
same as they persecuted at his being in the body j
and as they persecuted his. Disciples for believing in
his G ostel ; so they persecute those who believe
in his second com ing to bring in his King dom
of Peace. Now as I see the perfect likeness| and
all has happened as the Scripture foretelleth, 1 would
sooner give up my life than my writings; for I can--
not give up my writings without giving up ihy Bi­
ble, as the truth stands so close together. Before our
Saviour came into the world in the body/ his
Death, Sufferings, and Persecution, were -all fore­
told ; and the same in the Scripture, it is. foretold;
the like persecution and unbelief would abound now
that all these truths stand together. Then •how can
they fall without falling together ? I shall say with
E sther, I will go through to my Trial; then if I
perish I perish: but how can I perish, trusting in
the G od of T ruth, who has not told me any thing
but what the Scriptures will bear h im witness ;
though not understood by the wisdom of man, but
. known and understood by the.wisdom of G od, in
what manner all these things should be fulfilled.
Now what could St. Paul mean when he said, the
heavens must receive him until the time o f the resti­
tution of all things? Then must not a. time come,-
that the Lord will restore all things to Man, in that
likeness and happiness he created him for at' first ?
This appears to me to be the refreshing times, that
St. Paul says shall come from the presence of the
L ord, and he shall Send Jesus Christ,, which before .
was preached unto you. This was spoken by St. -
Paul after our Saviour’s ascension to glory ; so*
he could not speak of the age thej^ present, that1
' %
,, * ’ Digitized by Google 1
22(5 TRUE BXPLANATIOJWO* THE BIBLE*
Christ should come, and restore all things to Man <
£
but he tells them to repent and be converted) that-
their sun might be blotted out Tvhen the time of re­
freshing did come. The more I read my Bib l e ,?
die m orel, am astonished, how ministers can read*
. their Bibles and not discern that the visitation o f
the Loan must come in the Sp ir it ; and that
C hbist must come the second t im e in the Sp ir it
to establish his kingdom in righteousness and*
in PEACE) asm s taught us to pray for his Kingdom
te> come, and his will to be done on earth as it is in'
Heaven, which is spoken of throughout the Bible,'
But can hb warn of h is coming by the Sp ir it , to-
such as do not believe the visitation of the Lord in*
the Spirit' ? It would be like sending of Moses to;
Pharoah, for their condemnation, and not, for their*
salvation. Now as I find in the Bible .1 must go
through evil report, and (good report, have friends?
and foes, be persecuted .and despised, and yet be-
believed and supported by those that go through ’
the fireof men's anger and indignation ; -all this must
be to fulfil the Scriptures, therefore I rejoice, that I*
am counted worthy to suffer persecutions.for the*
sake of Ch rist. I see, in pondering through the>
Bible, how. he suffered persecution, ridicule; moefci-*
ery, scorn; and. contempt, to be counted/a madw
man,-a babbler, and having a Devil, doing bis tro**
racles by. Beelzebub tbe chief of. Devilsv all thisy
and more, he suffered for-me, and for an. angrate-i
ful world, that is just the same now as it was then.
Arid shall I forsake him also ? IsTo ; sooner let me
die byH is cross than ever forsake h im , dr lose him
from my sight; for persecution strengthens my faith ;l
and if men would not believe in Christ himself^
when HE-was in the body upon earth Antony it tftent^
•what have I to marvel, if they reject him now in the
Sp ir it ? F ori see perfectly the same 'different spi­
rits in men now, as.there were in our Sav-
jpu r ’s days.
Now persecution w o f not in' our Saviour norm his
srpondcoming op chhtst rejected. 42Jt
Digitized by Google .
SS8 fc*>LAltATlOI« 6» 'T& f SIBL*. 5 '
P isc ipl b s; for they wait about doing good, and
persuading men for their own happiness,' to ijepent
and believe in h im ’who had pow er to save unto
the uttermost; for which reason they were perse­
cuted ; and just so is the world now, thatthe L oro
is come to warn men every where to repent, that his
.kin gdo m is at hand, that they may be able to'stand,
as good and faithful servants, to enter jnto the joy'
of their Lord at his coming ; and be like die wise
Virgins, ready to enter in when their Lord coraeth,
Now for this merciful visitation,.he:is mocked-and
despised by. a persecuting and ungrateful world;
iaW his servants are treated by the world tunv ait
they were in the days of old. Persecution has been
throughout the Bible ; for they that are; born Kfter
the flesh persecute them that are born after the Spi­
r it . So 1 am. clearly convinced, the carnal mind;
that is at enmity against God, will ever, be at enmity
against God, as long as the Powers o fD afknot reign.
These are my thoughts on reading the B ible,
which meii cannot explain to me themselves, nei­
ther will they suffer the Loan to do it. 'But shall F
quench the Spirit, becausemamwould persuade me ?
God forbid! who can answer for the at the hour of
death and in the day'of judgfoedt i H e.that can
answer for me, and-he that*can-toure me from the
powers of death and hell; let him direct m e; he
that can save me, .let him instruct me ; by my own
Master I must stand or fajlh* ;
THE ANSW^-OE, TflE ;EOjtD.
“ Now I shall answer ftpfo, the pondetings of thy
ljeart; and begin fromthy last words. By Uiy own
Master thou must stand or faU, - And thou sayest,.
Re that can save thee let him direct .thee*-—
♦ ,'I>en sjirdy h whodwdl on high* ■
W ll now direct thy hand; '
Tliy-Foe* I shdt nmkesiftmtIi% * /
:tk $ Trial none cpu
Digitized by Google
iin r f r !#t a k x o * mjlh p k d e r t h e pa» l .
Wb^n I've went through what's in ray view
The Trial must appear;
*. „. And men shall set tney’ve mocked met-*
*
’Tis time for Men to fear!
Mv Bible through 1 well do know,
Men mock'd m e at the first;
And uoray Gospel I went through,
, Mens mockery so did burst;
Then shall I spare the mockers here >
No; them Fshall confodnd;
And men shall tremble for to hear.
They’ve mock'd in every sound;
My Bible's true, they all shall know, . ’
As thou didst ponder on;
Because thy eyes l open'd so.
To see how’all must come:
Blind from thy birth thou didst express^
And blind I say were all; Jp
The Scriptures no one could express,
Nor yet explain the Fall.
For to explain is what l mean
By saying to express;
But now 'tis drawing to the end,
I’ll boldly answer this;
That all are blind, they all will find,
And made so in the Fall: (
So from their birth they may expret*
That they were blinded all,
Never to see the mystery,
The P r o m is e hem it stood;
But those that say they've eyes to sc&
Did never once allude
Back to the Fall the whole must
Now I'll come to the blind,
Who do appear to ans'wer here—
4
4The mysteries none can find;
* Our Bibles here to see it clear
4
4Wc never could discern
* The way th at P r o m ise m ust appear,
4t Nor liow th e L o r d did warn;
* \Ve could n o t seethe m ind o f h e ,
4
4How he wouldaB fulfil;
* And of our Bibles blind we be—”
So let the blind stand still,
And they shall see the light from me,
Their eyfe I’ll open whole;
But those that boast they've eves to see,
I tell them, down they'll fall.
T hy pondering here from m e appear’d,
Twas 1that ponder’d on, ''
T o let thee see roy Bible clear,
My Gospel bow 't must come.
S o it is the blind Jhe light must find*
That they cannot soe:
Digitized by Google
Tot I shall open every mind , *
That now looks up to m e. «' .
But those thatrboasU their light h placid _
In their own wisdom here, ,
I tell them, blind theirselves they'll find,:
When to the light they come. .
To see the blind the truth did find
* That ne’er did boast before,
The light of men could make it plain,
And all my Bible clear.
For as thou dost say# this very day, ^
. . MyWords to thee were t r u e j *
Those that believ'd came all from m e, 1
Confess they did not know -
Mv Bible here to make it clear,
. Nor by their wisdom see .
* Which way the mysteries Ishould dear,
That in my Bible be:
So thus have'been, 1 say, blind men
Confess’d it from the Fall)
. Not with their maker to contend, ,
But when they heard my eaU, t • ,
They wish’d to*ee their light from Ml# <
And so the light is come l
But those that boast they’ve eyes to sect
Are much more blind than them \
Because they boast where wisdom's loot* T <
Just like Jews before: .
And by their*eye-sight they were cast* '
As they s^id they sow clear .
A Devil strong in me was come# > :
But knew not they were blind: .
The prophets they ne’er thought upon*
Where they my death m w tjtpd;
TVas all foretold, if they'dheboid*
My Prophets they were clear) • s
But now the blind men you .behold, »
* Their eves I open’d there# - „ .
That said to m e they could not see, *
So I their light became; : *
And sq^the fishermen did Bee* > »
And left their ^hiflb’ tis known.),
From them they fieri to follow, ME, '
That were in knowledge blind .
That did not boastjutf like the rest; *
-
The Pharisees you find, . .
And rulers there, Jbet did appear, » .
Boasted in their ownsight* < <
And so, 1 say, they blinded were* *
They could not see the light
That camg from me, they could not scev
By wisdom they did fall; . ■
Men j udg’d theirselves as wise do me, .
' But now I tefi you all, , ., . ..
>30 f i t t e BXFEANATIONSOP TflYBIBLl. f
Digitized by Google
IAZABV3 A TYFK Of THfi KBW11*8 IK MAK. 231
Mv Bible here no man can dear;
Nor did I place it so,
That men such wisdom e'er should shari*
Till I’d destroy’d thcyr Foe.
If man could come in wisdom strong*
To have it like a God,
. The words before me let them come—
*Could i pronounce him dead ?
Dead to tht knowledge of his Go d ?
And dead must man appear: *
And so from LazarUs, a§ thou said,
That death I now shall clear:
As dead as him all men have been
To knowledge of their God,
As in the grave when he was seen*
And perfect dead 'tis know'd,
Till 1appear’d to raise him there
And did his life restore:
* A Type for man they’ll find it strong*
For so I’ll raise them here;
And I've began to raise np men
Out of their native dust,
That they may see mVGospel plain,
Atsd for my kingdom‘thirst.
-But men appear, as they did there.
Wishing these men to kik ;
* Because that no man m ay see cleat
1 shall n c ftH g e my keel ;
On Satan's head, as it was laid—
Thy pondering heart I see:
What manner dothmy Gospel break
T is all new life to thee I
Now thou seest plain, what I do mean,
flow I shall raise up Mah
From the first death, that was pronounc’d*
And they shall know my name;
Like Lazarus here thoy shal1appear,
That men do say are dead;
For to believe thy calling here,
1 1
1raise them as I’ve said
r From death to life, I’ll end the strife,
For so their life shall come,;
Though mien do sav, in death they lie,
For to believe my name,
t . Or Spirit here, that doth appear
In words spoken to thee;
They’ll find such wonders drawing near*
Like Lazarus they will see*
They were not dead, as then I said,
Though dead they seem’d to men,
That do appear to mock them here;
But when-their life do come
To rise again and shew men plain,
Like Lazarus all must be.
*
Digitized by Google
232 r /n v *
Rose from the, dust the#fo il a tfirst* *
’And rise and live in me. _ ■.,
5a VII end here and say no more—:
Those that have eyes are bliud^ t *
That boast my. Bible they cajn, clearer 1
That every soul shall nod. r „ ^
Here ends Saturday frighti October 13, 1804*
Sunday morning* Q vtohtr 14, 1804.
Now I shall answer, from the words that are be­
fore you, Acts iii. Now I ask them that boast they
have eyes to see, what they make of this chapter ?
what they make of the time of refreshing to come ?
and what they make of the restitution of all things?
Let this be answered by the learned; but I shall an­
swer thee; and let them, answer what is meant by
these words— ** When the Comforter .cometh he
will reprove the world: of sin, and of righteousness,
and of judgment; of sin, because they believe not
.on m e ; of judgment, because the prince of this
world is judged ;' howbeit, when the Spirit of Truth
is come, h e shall guide .you into all Truth ?” Let
these questions be answered by the learned ; and the
following be answered by the learned— Now is the
judgment of this world; now shall the prince of this
world be cast o u t; and I, if I be lifted up from the
earth, will draw all men ttnto m e ? These are ques­
tions men. must put to the learned to answert but I
shall answer them to th ee; but not to the world
till thy Trial is over. So put down the chapters :
John xii. 2Q, to SQ,-~Chap. xvi. 7> *° 1'5— Chap..
£viii. 3y— Pilate said, art thou a king ? Jesus an­
swered, thou sayest I am a king; to this end was I
born, and for this cause came I into the world.
Acts iii. 18 to 23. These are the chapters that must
be answered by the learned. Now I Shall begin
with thee, from John x.— M y Sheep knqjv my voice;
there shall be one Fold and One Shepherds
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
&ow from thy thoughts thou ponderest hctti
1 tdll thee plainly 1was near.
Work'd in thy hcait to ponder on*
That the ooon shepherd now is cdme}
And ’tis His voice that thou dost hear*
A strin g ers voice thou canst not bear*
Whether of Devils, or of Men,
That do against thy Lord contend;
Because against me they are come*
That do condemh thy written hand.
Now from the chapter all see clear*
How all the hirelings do appbar;
The wolf is-come, and they do flee*
And so my sheep, 1 plain do sed,
The shepherds for them do not care*
They all may flee and perish here;
Then I'M the Shepherd ilow alone,
Whose voice at first to thee was kuowti*
And so my sheep I'm drawing here*
Into one rold they must appeai;
Because these words were lor the Eiid#
When I in SpiRit did descend.
To have thy voice be known to Mati*
Then all my Fold I knew Would come.
And so to thee I answer here,
Ti* the good Shepherd doth appear*
Whose voifce to all men shall be known*
That to the End 'tis surely come.
They'll find the Spirit true is here* *
Which they can't see, nor will they hear*
Nor are they ready to receive
The Bounty here that I shall give;
For if that I Wasjudg’d by Man*
Myjudgment in the EnO must come*
To nave the prince for to be cast
That in the World so strong did burst*
To work upon the hearts of men.
The prince of darkness had his time*
And in this world he did appear,
As though a prince he then was here*
For in the people he did speak,
And in his malice they did break;
And so I say they lift’d me up,
And on the Cross my Life did drop)
But know, with it, 1 rose again,
Then Death and Hell mtist sure be slain 2
For all men now YU draw to ME:
These that wont come must stfrely fltfc*
If with their master they will join*
And with the earthly prince combine}
Then with him they will surely fall*
The worldly prince, 1 tell you all*
As l was lifted on the tree
And crucified* be now shallsee
G g
GOOD SH£*HEfcD. S3*
Digitized by t ^ o o Q l e
That Fwill cut him off the same.
And all the world shall know MY NAME.
For all men 1shall draw to me
That own they are blind, and wish to see
The meaning of my Gospel here,
Their eyes I’ll open to see clear:
As I dt first was lifted up,.
The powers of darkness so shall drop~
For myDisciples at that time
Ne’er understood the words were mine; ;
Like thy believers they appear'd,
And wrong theirjudgment they drew here ?
So my Disciples did at first,
When that m y words, before th em p lac’d*
They said that they did[signify
The death that I design’d to die:
But ne'er discern'd the words before,
What from my death should follow here?
- That all the world I’d draw to me,
The worldly prince cut offshould be.
But this was not discern'd by M an;
As my Disciples’ wisdoip came
For to compare it to m yfdeath;
No mail discern'd the wprds 1 said:
Ai\d when my Bible I go through,
They’ll find thy pondering heart is true*
And iporein judgment tp appear
Than my Disciples everwere* *
Jfor wheu the Apostles thou’st went through].
I’ll lay the whole before their view ;
My honour they’ve not spoke like thee
The world toblame, thy God to free.
But with my Gospel I’ll go on;
I’ve shew'd my lifting up to man,
That if my life l did lift up
To bruise my heel, the head m ust
That did the Womanfirst betray—
On Satan's head it now shall lay—
*
For now the Comforter is come:
But here’s a mystery deep to man*
Bv wisdom they can never clear,'
To say the Comforter is here*
The world of sin for to reprove;
They’ll say— What comfort, or what Io
v
je*.
Can in this Comforter appear,
« When all the world’s reproved here?
« But how the rightepus can they come*
*
*To be reproved then by him ?
«
<And how canjudgment then appear
« To be reprov’d in comfort here ?
*
*But can the comfort of mankind
«
«Come to reprove, our sins to find*
«
«And tell us of our unbelief?
u-The Comforted must then bring grief—
s
TRUE EXPLANATIONS OF THE BIBM&
Digitized by Google
tiSftfPBOMlSC CLASMCT AT TITS EUD. 235
M ar toe the reasoning thoughts of men, >
Till I the mystery clear explain
To tell what righteousness is here;
How With my Father I appear,
Until the End was come to allf
.And then the Comforter shall call
Men to the merits of my blood !
And from the Spirit musttoe know’d,
Perfect as men did judge me hepc.
My second coming l shall dear,
T he worldly prince I’ll judge him here, t
As he in man did strong appear, ■
T o have my heel bruis’d at the first,
But on his bead it now shall burst;
For he shall now be judg’d by Man $
A nd to my Bible they must come,
To claim the Promise at the first,
Then on his head the whole must burst 5
For so you all must judge him here,
H e did the Womanfirst ensnare,
And then the Promise you must claim ;
Bo now be wise, ye sons of men !
But how these things could they then bear
To think that first they sufferers were*
And all those comforts should not see,
T hat would in after ages be ?
But had l plainly told them there,
From Adam’s Fail the thing was clear
To have the Comforter to come.
And Satan to receive his doom;
Then they too hasty would begin
To say v r e n o w will claim the thing,
And ask the Promise then of me.
But how with them could I agree,
Before the whole I had pass’d through,
And prov’d my Bi&LHHt was true,
That Jews and Gentiles both might see
The truth in all was spoke by me ?
Bo had they ask’d and I deny d,
They’d say the truth was not apply’d,
Forthey to ask it in my name ;
To bruise his head when first I came,
As soon as he had bruis'd my heel,
I say, no comfort they would feel;
If they had understood my word,
They’d grieve I did not make it good.
But now they’ll find the truth is comet
In every truth to lead you on ;
For so my Spirit doth appear,
The truth in every thing to clear;
And thou dost testify of me,
That nothing can be done by thee;
Nor e’er these things didst thou discern
Till I in Spirit came to warn;
G g 3
Digitized by Google
Or yet no Promise didst thou claim*, i
Until 1 bid thee in MY name t
To ask a favour then of
That now your joy fulfill’d might he* <
Because thou ask’st the very thing
, That now the CpwroRTEfc wiU firing* ..
T o be a.comfort to mankind:
But Unbelievers now will find \
Their unbelief I shall reprove*
Their want ofjudgment, and theirlove*
And so the righteous may appear,
They’ll find reproof for them is near;
For I’ll reprove their want oflove—
My Bible’s true I now shall prove: ;
Unto my Father I did go .
A nd gifts for men, they all shall know*.
T h a tl’M receiving now for man;
And so I tell you what’s to come. _ ,
% In Proverbs I was speaking there; ■
My Gospel they oould never clear* . ;
The way I meant to make it good; .
My Prpverbs no man understood—
Then now I’m come to make them plain
Without a Proverb unto men: \
• Because I tell you, from the first,
My Father's will by arts was cast,
And man no helpmate then did see-** \
Only to help in misery!!! . i7
But now the Father I’d shew clear,
He cast the $urse on Satan there; \
But said, that it should bruise his heel*
But no,w the Father I’ll reveal:
He said, that it should bruise his head*
As he the W oman had betray’d. ;
So now, I say, the day is come— \
Ask and receive, your joys be knowife *
And ask tfie Promise in my name,
My Father never will you blame,
Because atfr s t it was his will
The Serpent’s heart that way to chill. •
But how can man so weak appear,
To think I came to suffer here .
The mock and ridicule of m en} ;
Despis’d and mad wasjudg’d by them* . \
A fool dnd babbler to appear—
Could men so foolishjudge me here,
That this would kindle love to man £
Or reconcile a Gop to them?
Or yet their sins to take away, .
Because so spiteful men did lay <
In every thing against me there ? .
And now the same they do appear;
Then answer me, ye sons of men, - : .
for my Go6?el do e x ten d *
*30 TRUE EXPLANATIONS OP THE BIBLE*
Digitized by Google
CmtlSYDIXD TO PBXB TUB PALL*
Jf yoa canjudge it wisdom here,
This every mockery for taubear.
Only to sate a simple foe,
When they are dead to Heaven to g o ,;
For to be sav'd, as 1did die.
Because that they believ'd in me ?
Then tell me, how you judge your God^
If so my Gospel you allude*
My death was onlpfor a few.
That did believe my Gospel true?
But now thefew , let them appear.
Believe it true, and then I'll clear
My dying love was then for man,
To hind the powers of darkness down ;
That justice might appear iu all,
I died at first to clear the Fall, ;:
To have the Serpent s doom to come,
.And so l thew’d my Love to man t r
Bat yon mustjudge it cruelty
For me to die and him hefree, j
Because the Promise it was there ;
And now the Promise I shall clear,
The Woman's seed shall bruise his head;
And therefore in her 1 shall plead
Until her‘seed do so appear,
To join with me, and join with her;
A nd-then my words you all shall see.
You'll dwell in God and God in ye;
For then in me you will abide—
And mark from Pilate what lie said;
(kiaskd Me,' if I was a King;
Then know the words 1answer'd him;
His Word! I did repeat again—
Thou sayest tliat 1am a King;
And for this end 1 did appear •—
j came the every thing to clear, ^
And of the Woman 1 was born.
That at the End it should be known
That as a King l shall appear,
And so mv Kingdom I'll bring here :
Because the truth shall now be known, ■
I come the Serpent to unthrone;
I come the truth in all to see;
And as a King l come to be.
So if die truth you now will clear, )
You'll say you wish my voice to hear,
That I might come and free the Fall;
And in subjection now put all
That do object against my word;
1 know ofmen what steps they've trod,
And all their ways I then did see,
And Satan's arts are known to mi:,
T hat your refreshing cannot come,
Till Satan is subdued for Mart t >
f £f,/04ftxvijl*37' t Jfc
y
Google
Digitized by >
And then your peace I shal} pettore* .
■ Ahd bring you safe on C n u tti^ c o r^ .
That is, 1 say, a happy land; . .
For so my kingdom it shall stand*
So now the time for all d riw taear;
The Fall of mam I shall restore*
And my refreshing joy shallcorner.
Can this be answer'd now by man*
How the refreshing can appear *
Or all things now restored here, .
If I that power do mot destroy*
That did at first blast all-your jay ?.
N o ; I must free from Adara'&Fall*
If ever I restore you ail; - .
Therefore the Serpent must be amity .
Before that joy to M ancanburst«
I tell you there's no other way
Refreshing joys can come to ye;
Or restoration to appear—.
My Bible there's no man can clear
By wisdom for to make itgood*
Until the Spirit from your God*
That is in truth* do new appear.
The Comforter no man can dear
'That ever it can come from M an;
N o , 'tis the Ho lt Ghost must comet .
And by the Spirit from the Lord,
I told you all, with oneaccord
These Revelations all must come*
My Gospel is denied by men, _
Though they're profess'd believers he
. But their belief no man can clear#
Because my Gospel can’t bctrue* -
If that my Spirit do net go
To warn you all, when at the end;
For so my*Gospel it is penn'd*
My second coming to appear,
In spirit first to visit htre*
Beforef r o m Heaven I d o d e s c e n d *
As in my Gospel it is penn'd.
For as the angels told them there
I in like manner should appear, •
As they did see me enter Heaven,'
Ascending cloud to them was given# ~
For they to see Me to ascend, ~ *
And so again to come to Man,
You know the angels told them there
Then why stand mortals gazing here* . '
Judging all wonders they do see,
When all before was spoke by me, -
And my Apostles spoke the same? v
. Then bow can you this Woman blame*
To testify my every word? — \ ^
You boldly now deny your Lord,
ID S T»CK SXOT.AKATIONS I f lL S .
* JLtUhQh-lU
Digitized by C j O O ^ I c
S IS , BJMTITVTIOW OF ALL THIVC*. fiSf
Because my Gospel is nottrue,
If every knowledge is m you,
Without M
.Y Sfrttrr to appear;
The whole your.wisdom cannot clear.
Ever to make my Bible true,
I,know tifrmore-thanman can do }
Because,the Comtorter must coxn%
Toprovethe truth to every Man}
Ana so MY Spirit mustappear,
The every mystery for to clear.
Nqw from the A cts! shall go on:
Now marie when Peter he did come
Unto theGentiles toappear,
The Vision first! shew’d him thei*k
How every BeastIdid let down,
And bidhim kill was then my sound;
But Peteranswerd me—not so;
Nothing unclean he’d eat, you know* .
But know myanswer that did Come—
WhatGpdhascleans'dlet nonecdndenln,
' Nor call it Common, nor unclean.
The Vision wasa Type formen :
Then to Cornelius he did go,
And found the Vision to be true;
And so the Holy Ghost did comet
When he'd baptis'd thatvery man
Upon,Cornelius it did appear,
And all his house the same did share
But markand see the ways of man,
How Peter they atfirst did blame,
That he had so baptis’d the man 1
That was not circumcis’d like them.
For so the Gentiles they did blame,
And therefore Peter did condemn,
For to baptise them in my word ;
Because4hey simply judg’d the Loup v
Must be confin'd with them alone.
And perfect so i say are men
Now m this very age become j
My mercies they do so confine,
The Priestsjudge in heartand mind
That unto them I all must give, [
The Holy Ghost they may receive.—
But will the Lord so weak appear,
MTo cleanse a simple woman here,
«• That she might it receive the same}*
No 5 here is wisdom men do blame,
As they blam'd Peter at that time:
p u t let them answer, like his mind—
** IfGod in mercy doth appear,
w Topwce the Holy Ghost if here,
*
*Shau we withstand it from our God,
Andsay from her’tshall not be knowM*
“ Then sureour God we must withstand.
* Arts x. IQ
.
Digitized by Google
•«And whojm ■
w
e,vain>«irajfie.j®€ii# '
. MFor to withstand ms every word ?.
* We see the truth in all is &i4»
t4 Soif the Lord hath cleans^ her here^ i-'
“ To shew the end tti all is near, / ;
\ 4
4r
rhat all CheBeastshell cleanse tiqsameg
* The cnwewas hat Ibr to remain,
**You know, upon the Serpent's head-** '
4
4And there the axe she now hath laid:
u Now if the Lord will cleansethe whole# *
4
4And mate that powenouS Serpent felU
4i Shalkwe complaiii’tis come to she ?
41 IfGodhathcleans'dshecleans’dmustbo;
“ And so tW
esame he*Hfclcanse^hewhole,
4
4If we rely uponOur call;
4
4 Because the Gospel we see plain,',
4
4The H oly Ghost mustcome tomen-V*
For stow;! sayto one andall,
That in the ending*o must fell
4 O ^those that dobelieve MY wont),
Believe my Gospfcl wbatis said#
Tis but a.shndpwcome to cans;
The H oly Ghost to a ll must comet
When I-my Kttfo&OMbring below ’J*1
You*Hfindyour joys within to flow a
For as the vision did appear*
The cleansing time for ail drawsnear,
Thati will make my people dean,
. The po^er of darkness;shan'tremain
To stingthemby his poisonous spfe&
r—
Another day j'll answer hcrcr
2 40 THUS EXPLANATIONS 9W-VW SU E S*
ON THE CONDUCT OF THE REV. MIL POMEROY.
‘ m Thursday nigffl9Oct* 18, 1804,
Joanna for-martydays hathbeeft pondering over
the Whole of Mr. Pomeroy’s condactfiora first to
last, -Which filleth her heart With two,burning pas­
sions: too great to bear, when she reflects on him as
being a ihinister that she once esteemed above all
preachers,- and thought him the first preacher in the
kingdom, before she heard of Mr. Foley. Now
when she reflects how much she rejected him asa
minister in his pulpit, and how much he acted wor­
thy that character out of his pulpit in all his conduct
to her, from 1796 to 1801. this filleth her heart
With love and respect on the one hand, and makes
Digitized’by G o o g l e
Reasons for love and Anger in jo AnnA* QAl
h e r tremble- to come against him ; bat when she
considers, on the other hand, the change that took
place in him* and the work she is engaged in is
from the Lord ; and when he saw other ministers
h ad taken it up and supported it, that he shdiild
th en come against her, and publish that her.works
were from the Devil, which he before had denied
were from the D evil; then to burn all her letters,
th at the Truth might not appear; turn .her from
the Sacram ent; and now to write in the most spite­
ful manner against h e r; and she is compelled, fot
the Glory of God, and for tue' honour of her
Friends that support the' cause, now to come for­
ward against him ; this appears as a dagger to her
heart. W hen she thinks of the beginning of his con­
d u it, love and anger wounds her breast; she feels
to pity him, and feels to be sorry for h im ; because
she judges that Satan hath blinded his eyes, that in
seeing he cannot see, and in hearing he cannot un­
derstand ; therefore she feels pity mixed with her
anger, that a minister like him,, whom she once ad­
mired, she should now be compelled to come against.
This is more than she can bear, unless the Lord
supports her through. Nature is natufe, and has
its feelings: she has the honour of God on the one
hand, and pursuing a itiah on the othet, whom she
once looked on as his faithful servant. Thus is her
heart torn with different passions; for she cannot
give up the one without the other; she cannot give
up the man without pursuing him with justice, un­
less she-gi ves up the command of the f o r d ;. and she
would sooner-give up her life than t h a t f o r what is
his honour, or her life, to disobeying the command
of the Lord in love that astonishes her ? Here she
cannot draw back; and on the other hand She is
pressed to go forward against a man whom she pitie%
and once reverenced and esteemed. But when she
received his letter of abuse, she felt no sorrow but
anger and indignation, to think he should accuse
- H h
Digitized by Google
her so falsely and spitefully. This raised her anger
to go through any th in g ; but when she began to
ponder on his former conduct, it brought love and^
pity to her h eart; and this causes the distress of her
mind. If he had' been all one way, she could have
•been ah one way with him ; but as he hath acted
two ways, that causes two passions, which she can
scarcely bear. Oh, that he had been either one
thing or the other !
THE ANSWER OF THE LORD.
<
r Now, Joanna, I shall answer thee e T hy heart is
like my heart, and thy feeling is like my feeling for
as throw feelest love and anger for Pomeroy, caUnig to
mind his former preaching and former conduct; just so
is my feeling for thousands : for I have thousands like
Pomeroy in the Kingdom,whose love and zeal for me I
once regarded, as they shewedtheir Jove to my coming
in the Flesh ; but now I am come in the Spirit, they
persecute m e , as Pomeroy persecutes th e e ; and they
wound my heart, and grieve my Spirit, as Pomeroy
wounds and grieves thine. I am loath to come against
them and destroy them ; yet, for m y own honour
and great Name, I must come agair&t them, as
thou must go against Pomeroy : though I do it with
reluctance, as tlvou dost by'Pomeroy ; therefore I
shewed thee the Vision in thy bed. They were wound­
ing m e, as Pomeroy is wounding thee ; there is not
that man upon earth that hath wounded thy heart
like Pomeroy and now 1 tell thee, there is no man
upon earth grieves my Spirit so much as these that
profess a great love for my Name, as dying for them :
their words and prayers were as well pleasing to me,
as Pomeroy’s preaching was to th e e ; but now they
are turned as spiteful against me, coming in the
Spirit, as Pomeroy is-turned against thee. But let
thy sorrow cease: this thing of Pomeroy I permitted,
, to ‘bring it out to the whole nation at large ; and
therefore I shewed thee the Vision of the Perspira­
tion thou sawest me in. Remember my cold sweat*
242 'TRITE EXPLANATIO NS OF TH E B IB L E .
Digitized by Google
Ife the garden of Gethsemane, what I suffered for
th e unbelief of the Jews, by sweating as it were
drops of blood ! and now I shewed thee, from the
unbelief of the Gentiles, my sweats the same, and
m y hair wet with the dews of the n ig h t; because
they would not open their doors to let me in ; I
shewed thee my leg, like thine, the wounds I daily
receive from men through unbelief. This I shewed
thee, before I had worked in thy heart the like
feeling for Pom eroy; for thou canst have that feel­
ing for no man but he, who began in the Spirit and
now seems to end in the Flesh.; but thy feeling
■could not be so great for him, if I had not softened
thy heart to shew thee what i feel for M an.
So now within thou dost Begin ,
To ask Jiow this can be,
That I can suffer so tor Man,
As thou dost grieve for he ?
I tell you plain, ye sons of men,
My soirows are the same;
You make md grieve, you li not relieve
My Burden now ’tis come;
My Burden here doth strong appear,
'As Man I’m come to free;
My Bible I liave made so clear
. For every eye to see;
*lf men will come to be my friends.
As friends they must appear,
To know the Promise in the end
The Woman this must clear.
But soe the Laud how they do stand,
Like Pomeroy to begin;
When first he saw thy written band*
Did he condemn the thing,
To say from hell the whole did swell?
Thou knowest it was not so; *
But now the truth to all I tell.
When my friends strong did -go
To prove the whole, from me the call,
And so they took it up,
Then mark how Pomeroy he did fall*
In unbelief did drop;
Because that he himself did see
Cast out from being tirst,
other men with thee did join
To have ihc truth to bunt.
H h 2
A T V r» « F »1V1XE LOVE AND ANOER. 249
Digitized by t ^ o o Q l e
% 4i f THUS, JXM.AK ATIO*TS.-fl*-
So thousands h$rc lik r hhnapprar, > Vl>
Their pride doth swell thesw ner. >
Because that 1 did visit thee, , t,
And to them did not come. . - ' ’*r
The prjde of ,mcp doth thus begin ..li; ;il
By Satan’s arts to swell,
As every thing to. MEis*scen; •
. - r A
But this to thee I tell, t ‘ ~ , -
My Bible true before their view
Could never come that wav. ~
& o : 'tis thq Spirit and the B r im * .: r
As I before did say; .. - . ;
My Bible here I'll pow make clear, ' -
The truth TILnow maintain* ♦ -- 7
;
Though njep like Ppmeroy are^cting her#
To giv£ "M
X every pain;> „' . v ; s
Because my heel no man doth*feel v ; a
How it was bruis'd at first;
Apd ’tis the Woman’s claim must come A
To have the Serpent cast.
But men. appear like pdmeroy here-r-' •
“ These Prophecies«
we see ; <
But yet they never shall appear,
4
4Our hearts inflam'd they be,
*Tb see .thecall, how men do fall
“ To'’
vindicate the yvoRD'%*
Andintheirhearts they’veburntthewhol^
TheTaoMisg of their God !
They see the first like Pomeipy burst, A
Laid allbefore thy view;* ^ %
put I $m come the truth ,to claim, v
Like Pomeroy men do do : . .
Destroy it.all, and prove the faH
Cannot be clear’d this way ;
But when m
yBible forth I nali, - v
*Task Wh^t men wilI say ? '*
•
•Will they appearlike Pomeroy here,, ^
la^ ite agaipst their.God,
And say theT all they'll* never clear, , ;
The way that I allude ,
* N o; 1it shall burn, our hearts well tutH
4
4Against bur. Saviour there; .
4
4W ell never own the truth shall com e'
“ To have it so appear; ^ '
«• The Woman's fall. is cast on. all, ;^
And there it now may stand ; -
4
4We’ll bum the word that's on record ”
4
4And so cbndemii her hand.’’ *
Now Til appear to answer here, a
Like Pomeroy men must do:, :
Destroy my word that's on record*, a ’j
And hide, it from men’s view* f r *
JSre they tap come for.to cond^JW : ' A
BXSLE lit plajp| . v. ”
k „
Digitized by G o d g le
TY PE O F:T H E PROMISE X f i t T 'f e A t t t I T MAY, t 4 $
O f eveiyivord (hat’s on record,:i* V •
Can'rie^er be prov’d by'man; ‘ ' ' ‘ - .
No other way, to thee F say, 1 - ^
Her Promise must appear. ‘ ^ %
But merf> like Pomeroy, now do lay,* 1
My Bible they bum here* /
As they do say another way
My Bible it is plac’d :
The sorrow* *// must fall on me, -v -
And1
Satan never taste
The bUmfe on him, that did begin
To cause her every Fall; v /. *
>,
But I do tell you, in the end ‘ '
The Barnes on a
llwill fall. _
So Pbmeroy here doth strong appear
A Type before yt>ur view * ', -
A nd different passions do appear , \ "
In thee I well do know; .
Thou lov’dst himfirst when he did burst *
In honour to my najvte; * \ 7
But when thou seest he all doth cas£
/ And put thee so to shame, ^
Then anger see inflam'd in thee, >
Thy passions they Werestrong;
Because he burnt the TRurri 6/thee, :
As unto ME ftis known; L : .
Ju§t to m y word that’s on record# - ‘
Professing Friends appear, . 4
%^
They hum like he, I plain dose©, .. ‘< *
And will not see It deaf ; . . . *
*
' - ?
My Bibles true, befofe their view,
And put into their hands, . , -
And yet lik2 Pomeroy they do dp,
' And will not let it.stahcu" . -
So me they grieve, theirsdves deceive—'
The Type stands deep of h e: ,
Throughout theXaiid 1 see them stand
Tp wound the heart of Mt. . ' . .
.Bdicvers here like him appear, ...
That once believ’d my woRp,, 1 ^
A-^AVibfuR I did sure appear, ( .
But ne’er believ’d my Bloody ...
Mu»t now be' laid, as then 1said, -
Upon the Serpent’s head: . »- ..
No; this they burn, thewords they turn.
For Satan close has laid, . .»
■ »./
1 siiy, to all; because the Fait
Shall ne’er come back on he, ; ,**
And so like Pomeroy I see all,
The Truth they will not see-^ j
* No; itwe’Ilburn,andChRryfcmaymopr*
4
4That he his Life laid down;, ^ .*
•fUntobim now we will not turn’’-**;
Wk* Pomeroy men are found ! * ' '
Digitized by
But thou dost say another way— _
s ’Tis Ignorance blinds their eyesi *
Because my Bible they can’t see
To make them act more wise. ;
And this I see as well as thee, '
In unbelief they go, 1
Which now doth work my jealousy,
My Spirit $li with woe ! .
So thou st complain’d the ways of met%
And I complain the same* ^ .
Bring forth my bible, I d e m a n d , :
Or set h hr a flame; ,
One of the two I bid men cto-*"
Deny me as a Go© $
Or lay the truth before their view,
And let m y words be shew’d, ,
That all is come; as spoke by man,
And all as spoke by m e ;
MirBible must the Trial stand, .
Though burning hearts I see
Are now injtam'd, as Satan’s come
Strongly to work in all;
Andjust like Pomeroy men have done, ,
The Truth they wnl not call—
4*W e’ll not appear to shew it clear
" The Bible proves her wrong.”
No, no; the Truth they there do feafr
Doth justify her hand, '
Like Pomeroy's word upon recordl
1 That I firstgave to he:
He promis'd firstthe truth should burst*
If so if prov’d to b e; # .
But when it came as in his hand, '
He would not 9ee it plain;
Neither the Truth would he let stand,
* But hide it all from Man ; ' . 1
Just so pour Land itnow doth stand ;
% My Shepherds do agree .
To burn my word that’s oh record -
The truth they will not see. ‘
But here within thou dost begin .
To say my Bible stands,
As on record is every word, ‘
• It is not burnt by men r
T hat do appear my shepherds h e re ^ r
And this I know is true;
Yet know from bell the flames do swell.
And burning hearts I know
He works in men, not to discern
The Truth before them lies $ -
They will not see howl do .warts, .
*Nor yet the Truth espy. .
So they do go, as he did do, #
Tor to deny the whole * ■
' J ’
346 TRUE EXPLANATIONS OP THE BIBLE.
Digitized by Google
THE AH9BE DP THE LOED AGAINST SATAN*
For Satan's arts before my view
* Do strongly work in all}
H e in a Dam e d o th w ish m y n a m e
I n every th in g to cast*
But h e shall see the t r u t h in m e ,
For on him 1 shall burst
So now from thee 111 answer he—
O f Pomeroy thou didst say,
If he’d ne’er acted well to thee*
In anger thou should’st lay
For t# gp on against tfieman, x ,
Because thy rage would bum $
But as he acts two different ways*
Thy bowels now do yearn
Over the man, if he will tu rn ;
And mine do yearn the same,
I say, o'er men, ifthey will turn ■ . *
They'll know m y every n a m e ! '
, Foriust like thee my heart they'll see*
My passions here are two ;
But where is one 1 now shall come*
And hell shall find it so y
Because that thereno love appears
My anger to abate ;
For him* like man, 1 cannot clear, '
He now shall feel his late l
For just like thee, all men shall,see*
My heart for all is come:
And pen the words w^re spoke by thee* ;
I’ll answer thee again."
The words spoken by me this day were, that my
heart was wounded with the two different conducts
of Mr. Pomeroy; because he had spoken well of
me, as well a$ ill; and he had used roe with kind­
ness, as well as ill-nature. But I said, if his con­
duct had been all of a-piece, like a preacher at Hal-
lifax, in Yorkshire, that would listen to no reason
from his Bible, and would neither point out any
thing from the books to shew wherein he condemn­
ed them, but aggravating!)' and provokingly say I
was a strumpet, without saying why or wherefore.
Against such a man as that, 1 said 1 could come for­
ward with the greatest pleasure; because I could
justly lay to his charge what he had laid to mine ;
for he is an impostor, that condemns a thing he knows
nothing about; and will persuade others to be as
blind as himself. So as I had never received any
thing from that man, but impudent ridicule, it
Digitized by Google
Jt48 TlttfR EXPLAXATIOtfS OF THE BIBLE.
would give me pleasure to come against him. No#
though Mr. Pomeroy has ridiculed it the same atthe
last, yet he shews some excuse for his anger ; be­
cause his name is put in print, which he thinks I
have disgraced him thereby; and he is pleading his
former kindness; but forgetting what unkindness
unbelief has brought in him. Therefore 1 pity a
Bian that judges he has room for his anger; but I
cannot pity a man that has got no room at all for his
spite and malice against me.
THE ANSWER OF THE LORD.
ec Now, Joanna, 1 shall answer thee. As thy
different feelingsare between these two men, soare my
different feelings between men and devils; for Satan
cannot appear to say 1 have injured him ; .for I tried .
his reign in Heaven, and I have tried it here upon
Earth ; and his malice is against ME, as the man's
was against thee, without allowing any justice, or
any reason.
Therefore against him I shall come,
As thou dost say, against the man
That thou in anger couldVt appear
To meet thy bold accuser there ;
Because he nothing had to plead
Why he such unjust chargp had laid
Unto a person he did not know,
Whether the thing was false or true m
,
Or yet no reason would he $ee,
That he'd unjustly blamed thee,
A character he did not know,
And no offence to him didst shew,
Which justly made thy anger built,
Alid so against him thou could'st come*
In nought but anger to appear >
And f shall fully answer here,
My anger men shall find like thee,
The truth they all shall hear and see ;
And Satan he shall fiqd the same,
Though he's despis'd my every Name,
And he no more has got to plead
Than had the man from what he sai&
So now let Satan to appeaiv
He’ll find my anger kindled here;
Because, I tell him, like that man,
■yVithout his reasons, jid (Soitdetn*—
*
Digitized by Google
Seasons #or love and ANGfcfc,
' But Pomeroy hath condemn'd the same;
But know, hej udg’d thou’dst spoil’d iiis name
And made it odious to appear,
Wherefore his anger's kindled herd.
* So he hath some excuse to plead,
As thou hast cast it on his head
That he did support thy hand at first,
And afterwards against thee burst,, %
Which is rio honour to the man ;
So he’th reason for to come,
While he in unbeliefappears;
He may be angry and may fear
Ilis character will now be lost,
To see hisjudgment all is plac'd
So many years to lead thee on,
And then against thee for to come*
Now here’s a Type stands deep for a ll;
I tell you, deeply from the Pail,
It wasof adam at the first,
When with the woman he was plac’d ;
He never did condemn her hand.
Till he the Trial could not stand,
And thert he did condemn the tw o;
His maker strong before liis view
He with the woman did condemn.
A'iul so like thee, in Love I came
To beat* the Blame that was cast at first,
That on the Serpent it mightburst y
Torjust like thee have I went on,
To feel compassion still for M an;
Because I knew he was betray’d,
As Pomeroy’s blame thou’st often laid
On other Shepherds that were near ;
Thou know’st they made the mau to fear,
Aiid so the pity came in thee,
And so I tell thee it came in me ; .
But lJfnv his drawing to the end,.
In Love and anger I'll descend*
l tell vou, on the sons of men.
Now if their Errors they’ll see clear,
And own in judgment they did err.
They’ll fitul my Love for to return,
As thine for Pomeroy now will comcy
If he appears to clear the whole;
Thou’lt free the man, and cast his full,
1 know, upon another’s head,
Because tlie blame willso be laid ;
And so I tell thee now of men,
If they to clear the Truth will come
To cl^im the Promise at the first,
On Satan’s head it must now be cast;
So here’s a Type stands deep for Man;
And Pomeroy must the Trial stand,
Or else the Trial, all will see.
Will be brought round to judge of hef
Then hi!rwcan ever he appear >
Hi* honout he can never clear j _ *“
I 1 Digitized by V j O O g i C
230 TRUE ErPLANATIONS OP 1HB RlBLt*
I tell thee, if he now stands mute,
That he must perish with the root
That did the Woman first betfay; *
Because on him the guilt must lay,
For know he tempted thee to fell— V
This Type is deep, I n<i>wtell all.
And therefore Pomeroy must repent
That e’er his mind with man Vas bent/ *
Thy Innocence for to betray;
For close to him the Serpent lay*
So he did tempt the Man to fell.
The Woman's hand, 1 now tell all,
Against the tempter must appear,
A nd man must come his guilt to clear.
That he was tempted to the thing j
1 know, through ignorance alt W
ats dbttew
* And so l tell tnee of the Fall,
(It was through ignorance, I tell alt,
The Man and Woman were betray’d)
That now I’ll east on Satan’s head—
But now thy pondering thoughts I see;
If ignorance first in both there be,
And l that ignorance castopi all,
Then sure for pity Man must cadi
That all through ignorance were betray’d.
And east the whole on Satan’s head*
But to thv thoughts I’ll answer here,
That my commands meh ought to fear, •
And I shall come to Adam’s guilt y
By every one it was not felt
For they to die in Adam’s Fall,
Because in me they now live whole.
Whose Sins by death I’ve took away * -
And for the tempter now I say, . *
Did lie not tempt Men to the Fall, ^
He’d tempt them worse, I tell you
Like fatten angels to appear, ,
And then their gutIt I eould not clears
But as his arts came round this way,
The simple Woman to betray,
Then I shall bring it on his head,
As in the Fall it then was laid.
So from the Shadow all must see
The Type is*deep of him and thee ;
Because thou tempt’dst him. at the first
To take the good fruit as ’twas plac’d,
And bid him judge thy written hand*
Whether ’twas good as it did stand y ,
And ao the fruit he did receive,
And at the first he did believe
That good fruit in it might appear,
Before the world it mock’d him here.
Now this was Adam’s case at first,
He tpok the evil as ’twas plac’d, v
W hen Eve had given it to his hand i
At finl he did not her condemn*
Digitized by
SICK now ACT tIK B ADAM IN THE FALL* 211
Before that 1 condemn'd the whole,
And then thou Jmowest the Man did fall;
And so by Pomeroy doth appear, . >
W hen men condemn'd thy writings here,
He did begin to.fall the same,
And all thy Innocence did blame. .
So now the Trial let him stand.
As he the woman so condemn'd,
Against her he doth strong appear,
Though he the fruit received there;
Then oy the fruit I bid him stand.
And let the truth be shewn to Man. «
But this thou sayest he cannot do;
<(The fruit's destroy'd, I well do know)
Then let him answer from the word.
Whether he judge a thing of G.od>
That he so easy could destroy,
Or whether hell could this ei^oy ,
To make his folly to appear, . ' .
If he in judgment did not err ? r
Could Satan’s wisdom brighter go.
Than I by wisdom e'er could shew ) '
If he by me was guided here
In wisdom strong and spirit dear*
Then lie in wisdom should go on,
Satan should ne'er condemn the man,.
This very way to have him cast,
And prove his wisdom cannot last: .
No; bere I tell thee it must fall,
And Pomeroy stands a Type for all.
Because his character is gone;
*And so I’ll prove by every man,
Their characters are gone the same '
That now thv written hand do blame;
And so like Pomeroy they will fall— ,
T h e Type is deep t tell you a ll;
Though I’ve a heart to feel like thee,
My Shepherds' folly 1 do see, *
How much like Pomeroy they are come,
Yet I, like thee, shall all condemn^
As for thy writings thou dost cry
So for my Bible now I say,
Let all my Bible to appear, .
And ask if they the whole can clear.
When all is laid before their view ?
I know like Pomeroy they must do,
To say that they have burnt the whole;
Or yet deny it from the Fall: .
The Woman’s guilt was never cast
Upon the Serpent so to burst;
So men like Pomeroy must appear,
To say—“ our Bibles we’ll not clear;
«• Because we wish to keep them back, >
•* The wpn^an’s promise may not break
* With every truth surrounded here”-*-
J ask which way can men appear
J 1 2 Digitized by CrOOglC
Their guilt in every thing to free.
As they did cast their guilt on me,
And so upon the woman there ?
But now the woman s come to clear,
I say> herself of every guilt,
And on the man shall now be felt,
That he by arts deceiv’d her here,
And see if he himself can deaf.
I tell thee it can’t be by man—
The Trial Pomeroy cannot stand,
To cast the blame upon thy bead;
For wrong like Adam all is laid,
Because oi^thee he cast his fall;
But I do answer now to all,
The Fall of him ne’er came from thee,
Which in the end they all will see;
t And so l say of Adam’s Fall,
I suffer'd wrong come all from Hell;
But by thejudgment Man did'draw,
I did submit, you all do know’,
And Satan shall submit the same;
So men no more the woman blame,
For I shall end it by these two,
The Man and Woman in your view*
And then I ask which Men wdll free,
If they do prove the blame’s in he,
To ca$t it on the Woman’s head,
Then on the Serpent it must be laid;
For here’s the ending of the Fall— k
The Type stands deep, I tell you all,
If you the mystery can but see, .
’Tis deep of Tomcroy and of thee.
But in the Woman now Pm come,
For to condemn the Fall 61 M an;
Or else I say the Fall to clear—
Let Man confess that he did err, ’
And then the tempter shall be bound,
And own his guilt must now be found,
He did tempt the Woman and the Man,
For so by arts be laid his plan ;
And so he did tempt the Woman first,
Then on the Man he strong did burst,
To have him cast his blame on me,
. But now’ the ending all shall see,
The Type of Pomerov here goeth deep y
Though in thy heart for him thou’st weep,
But now’ 1 tell thee weep no more, '
If thou th)’ Saviour dost adore; 4
Cast off the veil that stands between, ’
Let no man have the heart of thine,
That now to mockery all wilt turn;
But let them know’thy Lord is come
In all his pow'er to appear:
Ilis honour thou dost Wish to clear.
And by thy master now thou’lt stand,'
Though thou dost grieve for fallen man;
. f yged by OQ
’252 TRUE EXTEANAtlONS OP THE BIBLE
6 ATAV'S ARTS IK TH E P A IX MADE TO CAST H IM . 2 5 £
But if bis fall he'll not deplore,
I bid thee for to grieve no more,
Till he Iiis folly do repent, 1
And sav his mind is fully befit
To know wherein the fault doth lie;
If that the calling’s from on High,
Then ’tis himself that he miist blame, •
Aiid 60 the tempter he will shame.
So here’s the Trial at the last,
Thou knowest they judg'd the Woman first.
And from the Serpent did her free,
And said the fault came all from he;
And now they judge her with the Man,
Which of the two they most condemn ;
So if they free her from the two,
The Fall of Man, you all must know,
Must be turn’d back on Satan’s head,
And l, the advocate, must plead.;
r Satan first did woik in Man,
Me and the Woman to condemn,
That on his head it might not appear.
The Type goeth deep; no man can dear
How I these shadows all brought round,
To prove the Fall in every sound ;
By Satan’s arts came all at first,
Though in the Woman he did biKst,
Yet in the Man he burst the same,
I sav, on me to cast the blame;
And so in Pomeroy he did come,
To make him then his Lord condemn5
But when the truth that I do clear,
Then Pomeroy he may stand in fear: J
And then the Abels I shall free,
That do stand out in love to me.
So here’s a Type stand* deep tor Man;
A simple way the Fall began,
And so a simple way shall end;
To bring it round was my intend,
I tell you all, a simple wav:
Like the beginning this doth lay,
1Twas for a simple thing at first,
You cay, that Adam he was cast;
But y&t you know he disobey’d,
And brought my words upon his head,
That l in honour could not clear;
And now the same I answer here,
How can my honour ever stand,
To say that I direct thy hand,
And unto Pomeroy bid thee go.
That he the truth might see and know?
I bid thee put it in his hand,
Then sure the Trial he must stand,
Or fataller now than Adam’s Fall
|f he refuse his every call;
Because, in honour as a man,
I f he thy writings can condemn,
Digitized by Google
In justice he mint sew appear* <
Toprovetbe troth vat never clear.
If he his honour jkiw will free, r
He's oorapassd round, I now tetllbttt
To act in honour as a man;
Therefore the Trial he m uitsttni
Butif theeaHingisfrom God, ^\
He'd hide himself, it must be knell'd*
Because be wish’
d not to appear:
His nakedness he’Hnow see clear*
How he is naked now toaU; > - .
The Woman hath brought on hit Fall*
And this is done by my cornmaad* '•
And so the Trial be must stands - :
Then he shall fell to rise again*
If he come ibrwaid to contend ?
It is the Woman caus'd bis FaU,
And proye his honourdear in all* j
Before the Woman he betray’d^
And now she’th cast it onim head*
And sobis honour here is lost;
But when the truth to him doth burst*
He’ll find his honour rise more high
Than e’er before it heredidlie,
And see his standing more secure
Than ’twas before for to endure > ‘
Because hisstanding is by me^ . :
The Woman'sinnocenceshall hue .
The every tall that is in Mas, .
That now the Trial bold will standi *
So thou of Pomeroy grieve nomatey 1
Constthou believe thy Godis here* ‘
And will notjustify the man ? ^ A
If to the Trial he do come,
And there confess his every guilt, m ; .
The Way at first his fears he ffek; *
Then I will snrely free the man; b
In Adam's felfbe now doth stand*
By Satan's arts that then were near*
And so like Adam he did fear* ^ ■
As he was weaken'd by his fell, t
He hath no strength to stand.&t all*-
Till by my power I raise him up^
So do not fear that he will drop, 1 .
Because that I shall raise him so.
In passions strong he'll see astdknow*
And jealousy I shall alarm,
And he shall fear that I do want.
So now in peace thy soulpossess,
And comfort now thy troubled breast *
But sure thy sorrows I work’d so* •
That men from thee might seeandknow
W hatsoriowsjde feelfa? all - '
That now reject my every .eaU. ;
So here of Pomeroy I -shall end--*
' Deep are the lines fhat thou to t jjenn’
d ,
254 THUE EXP LANATIONS OF TUB BIBLft*
Digitized by rO O ^ l 0
VYXBS »* THE FALL CONTIKUKD, 25$
I tell you, deep as none can see
The Type of Pomeroy and of thee:
A thing that 1 did firstordain
T o bring the Fall now backon men;
And when thatmen doeee it dear
They must confess the Man did err,
To blame his Maker at the first, .
As Satan’*subtle arts did burst
Upon die Woman at that time,
And Man at weak they all mostfind,
As he was tempted solo fall—
A ndROw let Pomeroyjudge the call;
And so from Pomeroy lit go on*
He stands a Type to every man.
Because his honour Til not clear,
T i/i he confess his Lord is here:
And so Isayof every man,
Their hotiour I shall ali condenttf,
As men condemn’
d the honouf herb
O f those fhatsce the calling cleat,
Because their hbnour men judge test;
And proud against them they do boast
And now asproudly 1 shall come,
For to eendemn thewaysofman, '
That did begin to cause the Fall, ‘
Or say the honour’s gone from all
That did believe thy everywold;
Two ways you say tbe Woman here
Hath took the honour all from man,
Because my friends they here do stand,
Like fools and-madmen they are plac’d,
The waythe world in wisdom burst;
And so the Womancaus’d their fell,
For so you know they’rejudg’d by all;
Judg’d in all follytoappear,
Ana so you see their fell is here,
Plac’d bythe Woman to be cast,
And so the Fall theysay doth burst
Upon them bv the Woman’s hand;
But here’s a Trial none can stand,
As aUher foes are fallen the Same,
A a d she their conduct great doth blame,
Which they by wisdom cannot free.
Then now, blind mortals, answer me.
Why,you your honour do not clear >
You say twowaysyou're fallen here;
Those that believe fell by her hand,
(For so they’rejudged now by man)
And those that don’tbelieve at aQ,
You must confess that great’s their fell.
If they their honour csamot clear.
Then now I hid you answer here,
Which of the two youjudge to fell,
He that eaftfland and boldly call
Digitized by Google
TRtfE EXPLANACTIONS OF THE BIBLE*
Of he thatsaith “ I cannot clear
“ The charges laid before my view ;
« Lmust confess the whole is true ?’*
•Then boldly tell me who doth fall ?
It is the bpjiour, I tell all, •
'That now must dree the Fall of Man# - ’
And sav that boldly he can stand
To say the Woman he obey’d,
As in my Bible it is said
That she her Promise there should claim ;
For by it I shall Man redeem. .
When I do bruise the Serpent’s head# .
Then Man’s redemption I shall plead,
And so the Woman hath begun
To plead the Promise made for Man,
And yet you say that she must fall;
Then now my Bible I do call
To prove that you have plac’d it wrong ;
Or else, like Pomeroy, you do burn
Fhe words are plac’d before your view,
Because you will not own them true ;
But Tshall come and compass round,
As in thy musing thoughts thou’st found
. A waYherein to compass all—
. Thy friends can’t fly; thy foes must fall# •
And so the Trial all must stand.
Ill own thou’st prov’d the Fall of Man ;
But as thou’st brought it round by me,
The Fall of Man I’ll surely free.
That now comes forth to prove thy word, .
They’Uprove their Fall came from the Lord;
Because that they did me deny,
They’ll prove their Fall came from on high;
But those that do believe thy word,
They’llknow their standing’sfrom the Lord,
And say I’m come to free the Fall, .
Mv Bible’s true, they’ll proveto alb
Till every one is compass’d round, *
As in thy musing thoughts were found
A way, i say, to compass here,
And so the ending will appear ;
Because t say, I compass so,
That mock the calling now of thee; .
But I’ll go on to mock them all,
Till down their haughty pride shall feU
And then, I say, I’ll raise them up
W hen that I see their pride to drop.
For. so their ending must appear:
T'he rise and fall of Man is here;
Because that men I shall raise up.
That now will fall and humbly hope,
Like my believers at the first,
Itn come to clear the Fall at last,
The Trial forward to appear ?
Digitized by Google
A way that men did never know,
Though they bebev’d my Bible triie ;
A way that they could never clear,
Yet I by truth will prove it here;
The Promise I made at the first,
Ih the ereation, how shall burst.
So men may fall to rise no more,
That say, the Promise we can t beat ;
But they that wish to have it stand,
PH raise them by tny pbwerful hand,
And their redemption they shall see—
*
Another day I'll answer thee,
And from my Bible I'll appear; .
But now this subject I’ll end here 5
For 'tis a subject deep tor Man,
That can the mysteries here discern;
The lines go deep beyond your view,
But ail shall find the end is true—
But I do know one thought in thee:
Thou sayest, my Bible cannot free,
To say her Promise she must claim,
v But I shall reason this with men,
And ask what Bride must then appear,
The Marriage of the Lamb to clear.
If she don't come and claim my word,
For to avenge my dying Blood
Upon the serpent, as 'twas cast? ,3$
No other way the Bride is plac'd, * *
To bring the Marriage of the Lamb,
' That I may bejoined with them.
So here's the Promise she must claim
No other way a Wife I mean.
To place the Woman so with me :
But now if you with her agree,
1 will make you Wives the same,
And you shall know my every Name;
. But if you will not so agree,
My love to anger turn’d shall be;
For you must know, upon record
The Woman must proclaim my Word,
* Proclaim my Promise to appear.
1 from my Bible this shall clear,
1 tell you all, another day
I'll shew my Bible how'tdoth lay;
But tor the present I'll end here,
Before another day appear."
to Bfc TH E BRIDE 13 TO CLAIM TH E PROMISE. 257
Saturday, October 20, 1804.
1 Colossians i. 23— If ye continue \n the faith
grounded and settled, and be not moved away from
the hope of the Gospel. Now see what the hope of
the Gospel is, verse l g—*For it pleased the Father
Digitized by Google
that in him should all fulness dw ell; and having
made peace through the Blood of his Cross, by
him to reconcile all things unto him self; by him , I
say, whether they be things in earth, of things in
heaven. I Timothy ii. 4— 7— W ho will have all
men to be saved, and to come unto the knowledge
of the truth. For there is one God, and one M edia­
tor between God and men, the man Christ Je su s;
who gave himself a ransom for all, to be testified in
due time. Htbresps ii. 14— Forasmuch then as the
children are partakers of flesh and blood, he also
himself likewise took part of the same; that through
death he might destroy him that had the power of
death, that is, the D ev il; and deliver them who,
through fear of death, were all their life tim e in
bondage. Chap. iv. ft—For if Jesus had given them
rest, then would he not afterwards have spoken of
another day. There remaineth therefore a rest to
the people of God.— Let us labour therefore to en­
ter into that rest, lest any man fall after the same
example of unbelief. Romans ix. 28— For he will
finish the work, and cut it short in righteousness:
because a short work witl the Lord make upon the
earth. Chap. xi. 15., 32—For if the casting away of
tht;m be the reconciling of the world, what shall the
receiving of them be, but life from the dead ? For
God hath concluded them all in unbelief, that'he
might have mercy upon all. Chap. xiii. 11— And
that, knowing the time, that now it is high tim e to
awake out of sleep ! for now is our Salvation nearer
than when we believed. Chap. xvi. 20— And the
God of Peace shall bruise Satan under your feet
shordy. 1 Corinthians xv. 25—-For he must reign,
till he hath put all enemies urider his feet. The
last enemy that shall be destroyed is death. For he
hath put all things under his feet. Ephesians i.. 10,
22—T hat in the dispensation of the fulness of time
he might gather together in one all things in Christ,
both which su*e in heaven, and which are on earth j
even inhim .—And hath put,nil things under his feet,
#58 TRUE EXPLANATIONS OF TH E B IB LE.
y
Google
Digitized by V
s c & irru n s * o s t h e o f f ic e of c h ju st . 259
and gave him to be the head over all things to the
church, which is his body, the fulness of him that
filleth all in all. Chap. ii. 16—That he m ight re­
concile both unto God in one body by the Cross,
having slain the enmity thereby. 1 Peter iv. 12,
13— Beloved, think it not strange concerning the
fiery Trial which is to try you, as though some
strange thing had happened unto you : but rejoice,
inasmuch as ye are partakers of Christ’s sufferings ;
th at, when his glory shall be revealed, ye may be
glad also with exceeding joy. Chap. v. 4— W hen
the chief Shepherd shall appear, ye shall receive a
crown of glory that fadeth not away. 2 Peter,
1. 16—W e have not followed cunningly devised
fables, when we made known -unto you the power
and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. 1 John
2, 28—And now, little children, abide in him ; that,
when he shall appear, wc may have confidence, and
not be ashamed before him at his coming. Chap. iv.
14— And we have seen and do tastily that the F a­
ther sent the Son to be the Saviour of the world.
Revelation i 1S— I am he that liveth, and was dead ;
and, behold I am alive for evermore ; and have the
keys of hell and of death. Chap, ii, 26— H e thatover-
cometh, and keepeth my works unto the-end, to him
will I give power over the nations. Chap. v. 9—For
thou wast slain, and hast redeemed us to God by
thy blood, out of every kindred, and tongue, and
people, and nation; and hast made us unto our God
kings and priests; and we shall reign on the earth'.
Chap. xi. 17-—
W e give thee thanks, O Lord God Al­
mighty, which art, and wast, and art to com e; be*
cause thou hast taken to thee thy great power, and
hast reigned. Ver. 18— And the nations were angry,
and thy wrath is come— that thou shouldesr give re­
ward unto thy servants the prophets, and to the
saints, and them that fear thy name, small and great;
and shouldest destroy them that destroy the earth.
■Chap. xv. 4— W ho shall hot fear thee, O Lord, and
K k 2 .
Digitized by Google
glorify thy name ? for thou only art h o ly : for all na- .
tions shall come and' worship before th e e ; for th y
judgments are made manifest. Chap, xvi. 15— Behold,
I come as a thief, Blessed is he that watcheth, an d
keepeth his garments, lest he walk naked, and they
see his shame. Chap, xix, 9—H e said unto me, write,
blessed are they which are called unto the marriage
supper of the Lamb. And he said unto me, these are
the true sayings of God—For the testimony of Jesus
is the spirit of prophecy. Chap. xx. 1— And I saw
an angel coming down from heaven, having the key
of the bottomless pit and a great chain in his hand.
And he laid hold on the dragon, that old serpent,
which is the Devil, and Satan, and bound him a
thousand years, and cast him into the bottomless
pit, and shut him up, and set a seal upon him, that
he should deceive the nations no more, till the thou­
sand years should be fulfilled. Chap. xxi. 3. 6— I
heard a great voice out of heaven, saying, behold
the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell
with them, and they shall be his people, and God
himself shall be with them, and be their God. And
God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes.— I arn
Alpha and Om/ga, the beginning and-the end. I will
give unto him that is athirst of the fountain of the
water of life freely.. H e that overcometh shall inherit
all things; and I will be his God, and he shall be my
son.'•Chap. xxii. 12— Behold, I come quickly; and my
reward is with me, to give every man according as his
works shall be. I am Alpha and Omega—*
the first and
the last. Blessed are they that do his commandments,
that they may have right to the tree of life, and may
enter in through the gates into the city.—I Jesus
have sent mine aAgel to testify unto you these
things in the Churches.— The Spirit and the Bride
say, come. And let him that heareth say, come. And
let him that is atnirst cotne. And whosoever will, let
him take the water of life freely.
. . THE ANSWER OF THE LORD.
“ Now, Joanna, I shall begin where thou hast end-
Digitize
•0,60 TRUE EXPLANATIONS OP ±HE BIBLE.
ed. T he Sp ir it and the Bride are come to warn all
men of my c o m in g . N ow, let the world answer me,
how I could be the beginning and the ending, the
first and the last, without l accomplish according to
my words ? W as I not the beginning in the creation,
to form man in my own l ik e n e s s, and make the
woman for his helpmate and happiness ? This was
my t l a n in the beginning, when I made'man at
first; then I must accomplish it in the ending, if I
am the last,—
So if man say another way,
I shall uot soappear,
A way to end as l began.
And bind the tempter there
Unto his pit, that doth commit
Such power and poison strong % «
The nations worship at his feet,
He doth them overcome ;
But 11
1appear, I tell thee hrre^
Just as my Bible’s plac’d;
And Satan may begin to fear,
For now his doom is cast
For I've begun by thy weak hand.
That every soul shall see;
M y Spirit bv thee now shall st^nJ,
To set the nations free;
That Satan here might not appear,
Deceitful to go on.
I AM the FIRST, I AM the LAST,
And so I now shall come :
60 do not fear, thy hour draws near.
Thy weakness now I see ;
Thou think’st thou never canst appear*
But I thy strength shall he.
My Bible through 1now shall go,
And 11
,1 makegood the whole,
Though men by wisdom cannot see
The way it now must fall;
And yet, vain men, they do contend
The wUdom is in Man !
But where’s their power for to devour
The Tempter that doth stand
Close to them all ? No; Man must all;
The strength is not in Man
For to appear in power here,
And chain the Serpent down.
No ; ’tis in me, they all must see ;
Then 1 must warn before,
In Spirit strong to Man I’m come,
And in the bride appear;
Your helpmate see it must he me—
Could thy weak foolish hand
• ’ • Digitized by V j O O y i C
THfe BEGINNING A SHADOW OP THE END. 26l
I& l ‘IHVM BXPI.AMATIOHS' O? THE BIBLB.
Ever appear the whole to clear ?
For trembling thou dost stand
Ready tofall, I tell you all, ’
Thy weakness I do know 5
Though boldly launch’d by my command^
Thou rremblest now to go '
To meet the man, where all doth stand
A shadow of the Fail.
If all ftand back, discern the stroke,
And now behold the call;
The Man at first the blame did cast
Upon the Woman’s head;
And now the lost see how ’tis plac’d,
The W ornan so is laid,
For to turn back on him the stroke—
She's casting ail on Man ;
And he isfeller'd in the stroke,
No Trial lie can stand
Him self to free, I now tell thee,
Lnie<s he will fall down
And say bis helpmate must be thee,
No good in h.m is found;
For good alone he cannot stand,
As i did say at first.
Can he aj-j ear hi* g^if to clear,
If I on him sbomd hurst >
The truth demand, can lie now stand
To say his words are true >
I tell vou n o t: hath he forgot
That all s before my view >
Can he appear the whole to clear,
To cast it on thy head ?
I tell thee no, thou well dost know 5
Then back the stroke is laid;
1 say, on Man it now is come,
And I’ll turn back the whole j
In the beginning ’twas my plan,
That so the end should foil.
The W oman, see, I gave to he,
I made her for his good;
And so the ending now shall be,
To those that with her stood;
For after Man, I next shall com e
To cast it back on H ell;
And then the ending ail will see
Lil^e the beginning fell;
When A d a m here did first ap p ear
A h elpm ate he had none,
Before the W o m a n did appear,
And then his joys did come.
’Tis known to me, he joy did see
To see her to appear
In the beginning so from me,
And so I’ll end it here;
Because at last theirjoy shall bursf,
When I in thee am found;
Digitized by Google’ ’
TH EtTtPE OF ADAM BLAMING .THE LORD.
And they shall hear the Tempter cast,
As-Ad am. heard the sound.
As I began I now shall end,
In all things to appear;
But there's no man on earth can come
To make My Bible clear,
And make it true before their view,
The way the whole must come. •
For Adam’s trembling, all must know,
Must be brought round by M an:
The blapie on thee is cast by he,
But I shall so appear
To tell him plain, ye sons of men,
Himself he cannot clear;
N o: back on Hell from M an’t must &1
&
For there he must submit,
And so the ending 1 shall call;
For Satan laid his net
Both to betray, I now do say.
But here he came in vain;
But now in Man I know he stands^
And I’ll cut short his reign;
Then as thefirst you see the last,
The WoMAN’s for his good.
There’s not a man on earth can stand
And to thy friends allude:
They all must fall, I tell you all,
If thou should'st fall before;
But here’s the ending of thy call,
For 1 shall strong appear;
Against the Man I first shall comm
To cast it on his head;
Because that he did me condemn,
But now the fault is laid
Upon the Man, in truth to stand,
And now the truth I’ll clear;
I never will give up the Man,
For he his blame shall bear.
Then surely next my mind is fixt,
The Serpent's doom shall come;
And he shall see his end to be,
As I have fix’d it strong;
For so at fir§t I said should burst,
And so I’ll end it here;
In the beginning so 'twas plac’d,
And so it shall now appear.
But Man will feel, much like my heel
He’s bruised at the first,
Till on the Serpent, as ’tis said,
The every bruise is casf.
So now see clear what shadows hem
' Are standing of the Fall,
The Man and Woman -toappear,
In guilt you both do call; . ■
Because,on thee thy guilt, they spcfc
It cast by Pomeroy’? hand;
Digitized by Google
263
"tutfE 6 JcplA<ja t io » s op/tHE Bi b l e .
And so on him the blame is come,
Thou’st cast it on the man. #
Then see the tw o, before your view,
'1'hat must together roeet>
They’ll find the Woman’s words were true*
And Satan must submit
The whole'to bear, I tell you here,
As all her words were true;
And Man himself can never clear,
To cast his blame on you,
And me the same; 1 tell you plain.
He surely cast it wrong;
Unjustly there I then did bear
The arts of hell that came
To work in Man, for to condemn
His Maker at that tim e;
But know the way I did begin
To tell him then my mind;
So now the end ’tis iuy intend
Mv mind for to go through,
Mv word at first shall be at last
ViiJfiU'd, they ail shall know :
Then you will see the truth of ME,
As 1 began at first,
That I the finisher shall be,
, And make the W oman burst
Tor to appear a H elpm a te here,
A Helpmate strong for Man,
Who says, “ our Maker did not err
4t W hen first he laid his plan. *
Sq now see plain, ye sons of men,
The wav I’ve clear’d the first,
Of the beginning unto men,
And shew’d you so ’t should burst,
So I’ll appear to answer here,
He that doth overcome,
His God I surely will apj>ear,
And make him as MY Son.
Mv Kingdom here it shall appear,
The thirsty souls shall see
The fountains now of life are near.
And I men’s fall shall free.
But unbelief brings on the grief,
Where it does sore abound ; "
The fearful here I cannot dear,
Because their fears are found
For to believe thou dost deceive, .
By Satan’s artful hand)
Then how can they in faith appear,
Or any Trial stand?
( tell thee, No 5 they cannot go
, Ever to claim my word;
* My P romise here they’ll neverdear#'
Nor own me as a God,
That I shall come in p o w e r •trough
As I Im e said before, • *
Digitized by Google
KINGDOM OF CHRIST AS IN THE REVELATION. 265
I
The Revelation now of John
Must all my Bible clear:
The fountain, see, must come from m i,
Jerusalem come down,
* And the New Covenant they will see
How it will now be found.
When I come down to dwell with men,
In Spirit to appear,
All tears, you’ll see, I’ll wipe away,
And all things I’ll make new;
Your griefs I’ll bury in the Sea,
Ana Satan dorm shall go,
The earth no more to trouble here,
The nations to deceive;
My P romises I now shall clear, •
And I with Man will live;
In Spirit strong I now shall come,
And take their.grief away;
For death and hell no more shall swell,
As .1 before did say,
When I’ve went through what’s in my view
I’ll chain the rebel down,
And Man enjoy, his God shall know,
And the new songs abound:
For peace on eaiC
th they shall possess,
And heavenlyjoys obtain;
I’ll wipe the tears they've had before,
Ana free them from all pain.
For as things stand now in your land
They shall be done away;
And Paradise men may command*
When they my Kingdom see.
So blessed here must all appear
That I do now invite,
If they accept my offer here,
And will not ill requite
Mv love so strono that is for Man-**
The marriage let them see,
How I am come with all to join,
My Spir it’s sent to thee
To warn before I shall appear,
Mv testimony’s come;
M y Spirit is in Prophecy,
Then let the T ruth be known.
Thou dost testify ’tis from on high,
And testified of me,
When in thy bed that thou didst lie,
What Vision thou didst see;
What thou didst hear thou didst declare,..
And what within didst feel,'
z And told them thou wast ready here
The T ruth for to reveal;
O f God and Man thou here wilt stand f
The T ruth in ail to clear;
Then thy believers may command* *
f*. . ; They nothing have to fear,
^ ^ Digitized by Google
But boldly stand by thy weak hand,
Where T ruth doth so abound.
But here’s a Trial deep fcr Man,
Wherein no Truth is found:
Just like that fly he now doth lie,
Then thou must set him free *;
Because the Man he soon will stand.
Just like that fly to be y •
Because his Fall he’ll see from all*
He hath no feet to stand;
1 know he’ll tremble at his call,
Though I do it command,
He must appear the whole to clear,
For I’ll ne'er give him up ;
’ His honoifr. I can never clear,
If now I let him drop.
vSo he must stand as 1 command :
And all must stand the same—
“ We. never toill give up his hand
His Promise all must claim.
For to appear the whole to clear,
For Lshall all go through;
And as my Bible doth appear,
The ending, all shall know,
Shall now come on, in every land
Confusions will abound;
In unbelief they all do stand,
My Bible none have found
T© make it good, as now it stood;, .
By Signs are set before.
The Revelation doth allude <,
» What tumults would appear,
When at the last I came to cast
And chain your deadly Foe,
That strong in Men he’d surely burst
Foi; to bring on their woe;
, So sorrows strong, you see, are come,
In every land appear;
I said, my K ingdom sq should come9
Then what have yop to fear,
Where fai^h is strong ? I said I’d com*
To be their priest and king,
My Spirit with them l should join,
And they my praise should sing.
The nations here may now appear
Myjudgmentsfor to see,
* And think it is high time to fear;
But those that follow me,
In love to come with me to join,
My Kingdom they'll embrace;
For now I tell you every one,
My Gospel tells you this.
The Scriptures see that are penn’d by tbee^
I ask men bow they’ll stand ‘
266 TRUE EXPLANATIONS OP TH E BIBLE
V
* Joanna saw a poor fly on its back and could 'not help lliflf
she set it on its legs. C c \ n a \ o
® Digitized by V j O O Q I C
til
A TYPE O f UN1BLIEF AT THE LAST*
Tosay rejoicing so must be,
When judgment great's at hand.
If ’twas not clear that I was near,
Their sorrows to release,
To change their tumults and their wars,
And bring a lasting peace ?
Now I’ll begin from what thou’st seen— '
When the lastplagues appeal
For .to £11 up tlie wrath of CloD
And every judgment near;
When dangers round by all are founcT,
Appear in every land,
I ask, which way man can be found
To sing the every song - •
Of Moses here ? Can men appear
In sorrow for to sing ?
Or of the Lamb can they now come
These victories for to bring ?
Did they not know how things would go
They could not sing at all;
Their hearts would soon be fill'd with woe,
And down they soon would fall;
Did I not come in Spirit strong
To warn them of tne end,
They ne’er could sing the heavenly soqg,
To see all nations bend *, -
And judgments here lor to appear
Made inauifr t to he :
And yet you ki ow 1
tis written here ^
They’d then sing praise to me. x
Then, simple men, can you contend
To tell me bow’tis so,
That praises men to me shall sing,
Ana land surround'd with woe ?
I tell you plain it could not be done,
If I did not appear
To shew it plain tp every man, '
My coming then was near.
But unbelief will bring on grief,
l tell you, fast on one;
And jpy abound, will be the sound*
Bellevers’ faith b,e strong,
My kingdom here will soon appear,
And it they shall enjoy ;
And then the victory they will wear
V
V
’hen I’ve the foes destroy’d.
^So thus to some their joys will comfy
While others sink in woe—
“ We judge no kingdom is at hand v
“ To crown the nations so.”
From Shadows bei;e I shall appear,.
And from them all mu t see,
Thy Trial makes my Bible clear,
The way the end will be:
♦ Revelation XT. 4.
L i -i'itizecl by Google
Thy friends do long to see the time
To have it to appear;
But unbelief will bring on grief,
And Pomeroy now will fear
For to go through, I well do know,
And here you see the end, A
When I my kingdom bring below,
How different men will bend.
Those that are clear my coming’s near,
In joy they do abound ;
But those that do the truth now fear.
Like Pomeroy will be found.—
««How can I go I well do know,
Will soon be Pomeroy’s cry;
4‘ For if that every truth they shew,
“ They’ll know that I must lie;
“ Then can I free my infamy,
“ To say I’ve not done wrong
No, no ; it cannot be done by he,
And so I say of men :
They can’t appear, when I draw near
To make my Bible true;
And just like Pomeroy they must fear.
When I the whole go through.
' They’ve lied the same as he hath done,
r My Spirit to deny ;
' The Trial all may try to shun
That now did act like h e:
I tell thee here, they can’t appear
No more to clear my word,
No more than Pomeroy now can clear
What he of theehatn said.
So they draw back to see the stroke,
As they cannot go through;
Like Pomeroy here they do appear,
My' Bible’s in their view,
Which they deny, as much as he
Denies thy written hand,
Without my Spirit to appear
My Bible ne’er can stand.
* Can one rejoice to hear my voice
In happiness abound,
Another see in grief to be,
And tremble at the sound ?
Could this be done, ye simple men,
W ithout my warning here ?
-Belief in some for to be strong
My kingdom will appear ?
This must begin in different men,
, To make my Bible true;
’Tis unbelievers will complain,'
And know not how to go;
Because they mock the coming stroke,
They mock mv every word, .
They mock my Bible as ’tis plac’d*
And so they mock their Lord.
- Digitized by ooaie
*&5S TfttJB EXPLANATIONS OP M B BIBLE*
V
THE E V IC T S OP SUCH UNBELIEF IN MAN. $<Jg
Then they must fear when I am near*
As Pomeroy's fears will be.
From types and shadows l shall clear
How all the end will see:
I said this year should so appear,
A shadow of the last *;
And now from Pomeroy all may fear
To see the end to burst,
Who mock my word that’s on record,
And mock my Bible through;
For as thy hand in Pomeroy’s stands,
That he’d destroyed so
l tell you here, I’ll now appear
And prove they’ve done the same;
For just like he the shepherds be, 1
For they destroy my Fame ;
As he hath thine so men have m ine,
Destroy’d my every w ord:
But now discern it at the time,
He wish’d from thee to’ve lied %
9
While others here wish’d to appear.
With joy to see the end ;
To see the Truth m all made clear
Believers’ hearts do bend;
But unbelief doth bring on grief
In Pomeroy at this time;
He knows not bow to gain relief;
His honour soon he’ll find
Is gone from all, and he must fall—
This shadow must appear,
Before that I could prove thy call
To make my Bible clear,
How it doth stand, to shew to Man
My Bible here is plain;
The different conduct now in men
Shews how it all will end.
So some will praise the end of days, •
While others they will fear—
“ The end of days we cannot praise,
u Our unbelief is here.”
So men do stand throughout the land,
Like Pomeroy to begin
At first for to uphold thy hand,
And then himself to screen
The whole to burn, when he did turn
To say ’twas not from God:
And by my Bible this is done,
For so 1 shall allude;
Men do appear believers here,
Uphold my Bible first;
But when the Truth I’m come to clear,
I^ike Pomeroy they do cast
* That is, of the last year ofjudgments on mocken.
t Her handwriting that he burnt.
t Alluding to a dream of Joanna.'
Digitized by Google
All in the flame, as he hath done.
For it they do deny— *"
When to the purpose I do come,
, Like Pomeroy is men's cry—
* “ We do not know that it is so,
“ Nor can we this discern.'*
i Then to the purpose I shall go.
And do as thou hast done;
I'll make them fear when I come near
To be the J udge of all;
Because my Gospel none can clear;
The mysteries of the Fall
Do in it stand, I now tell Man:
Then now from Pomeroy see, ,
How he doth fear for to appear.
And so men's end will be, - ‘
•That do go on as he hath done-*
My Bible now discern,
But he that now doth overcame
I’ll s rely keep from harm;
For to the end tis my intend
Believers tor to free;
They’ll rule the nations in the end
That now standout for me.
But mark and see the mystery.
What sorrows must abound;
W ith rods of iron men must rule,
Then tremble at the sound !
*Tis unbelief must bring this grie&
To have these rods appear; 1
Because if men in faith do stand
To wish my kingdom near,
W hat rods so strong could there now corned
Discern the mystery deep ;
How unbelief must be in some,
To make my Gospel break*
And well l knew it would be so,
As in all ages past,
I knew how unbelief would flow
When it came to the last
So, simple men, 1 tell you plain,
To bring the different way
Tis unbelief, I'll now maintain,
My Bible so doth lay ;
. Some will believe, and will not grieve
To see the end appear,
While others flee,like Pomeroy,
With trembling and with fear
They’ll hear the^end—mark how dothbend
Thy ending now is come;
i And Pomeroy, in security,
Thought all from him was gone ;
But now he sees the end of thee,
He cannot shun thee here ;
And perfect so the end will be,
. When I in poweb appear
*270 TBUE EXPLANATIONS OP THE BIBJMI.’
Digitized by 'O O Q I G
ii
PROOFS OF SPIRITUAL BLINDNESS. 2 7 1
They’ll find, like he, they cannot fleet
Their honour so is lost—
“ Though we did never jud^e this way
4
4Our Saviour here would burst;
4t But now he’s come for to demand
4
4Our Bibles to appear,
44No more than Pomeroy can we stand ;
4
4Our Bible we burnt here,
4
4Not to discern how he did warn
4
4That he should come again;
4
4
He died to live for evermore,
4
4And so he now must reign ;
44The keys of hell, we do know well, i
4
4Are given to him there ;
4
4Then sure the Tempter he must fall*
4
4And Christ in power appear”—
Because that then I said to him
That did the Vision see *,
Hereafter it must surely come,
And all fulfill’d must be
The mystery’s great without deceit,
The seven stars you see
W ith golden candlesticks appear,
For so the end will be.
My angels here will so appear,
To keep them by my power;
Their enemies they need not fear*
For I shall them devour •
That's by my word that’s on record.
Like Pomeroy they’ll be found,
Who cannot stand to judge thy hand,
The truth cannot be found
Now in the man ; he cannot stand,
Then down he sure must fall;
And so I tell you, by your land,
’Twill perfect be to ail.
Had he not turn’d, thy writings buru’d,
Thou could’st not shame him here;
And so to men I say the same,
They never would appear
W ith shame to see the words of me,
If they’d not plac’d all wrong;
But in my Bible they did see
That so the End must come.
Then they’d not fear for to appear,
But as they this deny;
For they did act like Pomeroy here,
To burn is now their cry
The every word that’son record,
My Gospel will not see,
How*I that am the Son of God
> Was manifest to be-
The Saviour here for to appear,
The Devil to destroyt
9 R e v e l a t i o n i. 13.
Digitized by Google
272 TRUE EXPLANATIONS OF T H E BIBLE*
And all his works to put away,
That I might Man enioy.
It cloth not appear, I tell you here,
As yet, what Man will be,
But in the end I all shall clear
To those that join with me,
To have me come their prince and king,
And their victorious God ; '
4ly Gospel now I mean to bring,
And ask how you allude
The words are here that do appear,
By my Apostle penn’d,
That I the Son oi God came here
The power of hell to rend,
I say, from Man ? For this I come.
And this I’ll now go through;
But scoffers here do strong appear
In these last days, I know;
They ask thee where these Promises are,
My coming so must be;
And now I bid thee answer here, '
T he Gospel penn’d by thee
Let them explain what it doth mean,
if 1 don’t make it good.
These Promises no man can clear.
Nor how they do allude
To make it known that I shall come
In power for to appear;
If tis not so, you all must know,
My Apostles all did err.
So now I say to thee this day,
Like Pomeroy men go on,
They take my Gospel all away,
And do as he hath done; .
For fuules here they say appear,
That my Apostle penn’d
And ask me where tne Promises are,
That I’ll in power descend
To come again with man to reign,
In spirit to appear?
For so my Gospel it is penn’d,
That I shall so appbar.
But now to Man I thus shall come
And ask, who must reveal
My glory here for to appear, *
When 1 from man conceal
The knowledge here to make it clear ?
’Tis all conceal’d from man
The way my Bible I shall clear,
Then sure from me must come
For to reveal and not conceal,
My glory must appear ;
And those that suffer now with ME,
Men’s mockery for to bear,
Shall then rejoice to hear MV VOICE,
My power for to see,
Digitized by Google
V *
TRIA L AND REWARD OF F A lT tt.
When Treveal and not conceal,
The mysteries deep to thee
, That are behind, they soon will find,
But I shall still go on-—
The corner stone will soon be known*
What rock to build upon:
That rock is me ; I died to free •
The nations in the end ;
And so my Gospel, you may see,
Is in this manner penn’d-—
Gird up ybur loins and you will find
My promise in the eiid ;
So you may hope you shall not drop—
•
Mark deep the lines are penn’d :
What grace is here that doth appear*
That’s now reveal’d by me ?
I say the words no man can clear,
Tp say from m an’t must be *.—
Obedience here the whole must clear.
When I myself reveal ;
But now I ask men every where,
* Why they do this conceal ? ,
4
4Obedience come 1’t must not be done !’*
Is now their every cry.
The chapter s,deep, I say, for men,
Though they do it deny;
But I ask here who do appear
In power kept strong by me,
Through faith unto Salvation here,
That is revealed by mb >
In the last time, you all mustfiud.
These things must be reveal’d,
And I am come to plead with Man,
And shew I’ve not conceal'd
Mv coming here for to appear,
Your faith to try I’Mcome;
More precious than the gold you are
That now in faith go on.
Your Trial's great, without deceit,
ForTRUTH you all pursue
And ’tis from me the Truth you’ll see, ,
My honour you shall know;
For fli appear in power here,
In Spirit like a God ;
Your innocence I’ll surely clear,
Though men to you allude,
Deceitful here you do appear;
They wish to prove you so.
But I their innocence shall clear—
As they’ve begun I’ll do; \ *
I’ll shew them plain I did act like men,
And all the truth shall see : .
Unto the standard now I’ll come,
And further answer thee,
* 1 Peter i. 13.
M a
Digitized by Google
The Trial here doth now appear,
Your faith is tried by Man ;
And my salvation shall appear,
And you by faith may stand.
Believers here do now appear,
Rejoice to see the end,
Because my SpiIut it is near,
And sol shall descend ;
In Spirit strong 1shall go on,
Till I’ve reveal’d the whole,
To shew my kingdom it must come,
As they before did tell.
Because that here I did appear,
Offer’d up once for sin ;
But now my office l shall clear*
The second tim e must come
That I appear, I tell you here,
And without sin must be;
Then all my brethren I must clears
You know the vine is m e :
Then I must come again toMan
And make the branches whole—
My pospel none do understand,
The way the End must (all:
The words that appear before thee here
No one doth understand.”
Hebrews ix. 15, to the 18— And for this cause he
is the Mediator of the New Testament, that by
means of death, for the redemption of the trans­
gressions that were under the first Testament, they
which are called might receive the promise of eter­
nal inheritance. For where a Testament is, there
must also of necessity be the death of the Testator.
For a Testament is of force after men are dead:
otherwise it is of no strength at all while. the Testator
liveth.
w Now 111 appear to answer here.
The words that puzzle thee:
The Mediator 1came here,
. I say, for Man to be;
And as my Death was then brought forth
The transgression then of Man,
TJnder thefirst you’ll see the last9
Redemption so must come;
Because tne w ill l shall fulfil,
As promis’d at the first;
After my Death must this come fort^
And so it now shall buist .
Had l not died, might been applied
*
, I’d ne’er fulfill’d the ore;
Then sure, in justice, nvght been sai<^
My Will could never come
274 THUS EXPLANATIONS OF THE E IB ^f.
Digitized by Google
For to fulfil my Father’s Will,
Without my Death appear;
And here the riches of my love,
That in my Death were there:
T o bear the first, and claim the last,
And all in love to M an;
And as it was my Father’s Will,
I say, that Will shall stand;
For so my Death shall now bring forth,
My Blood shall set you free j
The Testament that God hath join’d
Must be fulfill’d this way.
So now see clear the words are here,
, Then your redemption’s come;
My Testament must now appear,
In force must all go on.
Burnt offerings here they did appear,
But know they did not do;
Then in ttye volume of the Book •
You know ’tis written so,
That I should come, it must be known,
To do the Will of God:
I took the first, I’ll bring the last—
Let this be understood:
4t He took away the first,” you say, 4
So I my Life took there,
The second might establish’d be—
My Gospel now see clear,
How all his come, and all do join,
1tell you, with the Fail :
I took away the Sin for Man,
I now do tell you a ll;
I died to free the guilt of he, ‘
So cast on me at first;
And now establish’d all shall be,
The Promise it shall burst;
The W oman here I now will clear.
And make the Promise good.
So ifwith patience you wait here, - '
And do the Will of God,
His Promise, see, shall come to ye ;
I will not tarry here,
But I shall come, it shall be known.
My Bible ail I’ll clear.
So now the just may live by faith,
Relying on my word j
For perfect as my Gospel saith
You’ll find your coming Lord, '
Who gave my Life to end the strife,
That I might Man redeem,
1 tell you, from iniquity,
Ana so ’t shall now he seen ;
For zealous here do men appear,
Wishing to have it so:
But foolish questions do appear,
Contention I do know,'
About the Law men now do go, r\r \n \o
Which way the Law took place; by
M m 2
* a * p ts ip itto iK T o p t NE n e w ^
t e s t a m e n t . 275
3 7 a
•
• »
TRUE EXPLANATIONS O* THE BIBLK«|
But I have now reveal’d it so, ^
To shew the fallen race,
That I must come again to Man
In Sp ir it .to redeem ;
To make the Law and Gospel stand
A way ’twas never seen :
for I’ll appear to answerhere,
My Bible none make true ;
For it is more than man can clear,
’Tis I the work must do.
The Law before no man could clear
The way that I should come,
Till I in Bethlehem did appear.
And of the Woman born-^-
But none did see the mystery .
Why l that way should come;
That when the Law Idid redeem,
And free the Fall of Man,
I must appear, I tell you here,
In Spirit in her form ;
Because ’tis she the end must free,
To have her Promise known,
And then to claim, ye sons ofmen,
And this I shall go through,
And then you'll find it in the end
My Gospel all is true.
But men appear, 1 tell thee here,
Mv power for todeny !
Because the wise men, I see here,
They boldly do defy,
The power of God cannot be kno’
v
v
’d',
But forms arc in their view
Of godliness, it may be shew’d—» ’
But is my Gospel true,
Till I appear in power here
My Gospel to fulfil >
And then the hope toall I’ll clear,
Mv Promise shall be still,
As ’twas befbre’t shall nowappear *
,
Before the world began
The Promise of your God was there,
To offer up his Son
For Adam’s Fall, I tell you all,
Eternal life to come !
Here is the mystery of the Fall;
’Twras known before to him
That Man would fall, I tell you all
But I must‘die in vain,
IfI do not the Fall recal,
Eternal life to gain ;
Because for Man wr
as then my plhn
To die upon the tree,
Aud after that in power to coipe,
That all fulfill’d should be.
For I’ll appear to answer here,
My Will1is Men to save,
That they in knowledge might appe^y
The truth in all to clear, ~
Digitized by fO O Q l C
For I must come again to Men,
And must their ransom be,
Who on the Cross did die for thcijii
And testified must be
That I do call to ransom all,
For my due time is come,
I say, to free you from the Fall,
And ransom bring to Man.
Mv Bible here you will not clear,
Nor yet allow it true;
Now let the learned answer here
The words before thy view.”—
1 Timothy ii. 5, 6-—For there is one God, and one.
mediator between God and men, the man Christ
Jesus; who gave himself a ransom for all, to 'b e
testified in due time.
4
4Then where’s the man thatnow can come
To prove the time was then ?
If in due time I tell my mind,
Ye simple sons of men,
A time must come, to you unknown.
That did not then appear—
Another Scripture must be shewn
For men to answer here.
2 Thessalonums ii. 6 —9—And now ye know what
withholdeth that he might be revealed in his time.—
W ho now letteth will let, until he be taken out of
the way.—‘Then shall that wicked be revealed, whom
the Lord shall consume with the spirit of his mouth,
and shall destroy with the brightness of his coming.
“ Now let this be answered by the 'learned, who
it is that withholdeth, th a t,must be revealed in his
time—the mystery of iniquity. Now the mystery
of iniquity must be understood by men in a way and
manner they never discerned ; yet ye have always
understood clearly from my Gospel, that the Devil
is as a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour,
and hath always been a let and hindrance to man ;
yet no man has ever discerned the meaning of his
being revealed, nor how he was to be revealed, nor
how the Lord was to consume him with the bright­
ness of his coming, after his being revealed. This
is a mystery no uian can find out, neither can they
explain, before I make it plain to man ; but know,
J have made it plain, as I revealed to thee the myste-
tf HE REVEALING OF TH E W ICK ED O NE. 2 7 7
Digitized by Google
2?8 TOT* BXFLAKATIOir* OF TffE
riet of the Fall, andwhere the Promise stands, and
howit is to be demanded.
So now see plain; ye sons of mea^
How all’s revealed here;
But with my Bible you contend,
Yet never see it clear,
*Twas not reveal’d, but was conced'd,
The things that were to come;
But know 'tis said then from my word
T hat it must be made known;
So I’ve reveal'd,* and not conceal’d,
The mystery of the Fall;
And as the Promise is to the^
I now do tell you all,
I t was design'd in heart and mind',
Though ne’er reveal’d to Man*
That it was by a W oman kind
The Promise first did come ;
Then surely there it must appear
The whole for to reveal;
My Bible there’s no man can clear,
Because 1 did conceal
The things from man, thatnone might’come
Impostors to Appear;
But I’ve reveal’d it to MY own,
To shew my Bible clear:
•Tis now reveal’d, and not conceal’d,
The Promise at the first;
And in my brightness I’ll appear «
* To have the Promise burst
§o now to men I’ll boldly come*
Aftd let diem answer me,
How they'll appear the whole to clear*
My Bible none do see:
Now tell me plain, ye sons o f men;
Was this reveal’d to Man,
The Woman should her Promis# gain,
And claim it from my hand,
What then reveal’d was there conceal’d
. That must hereafter be,
That then did let ? Let men dispute; x
But I have answer’d thee;
It was the Fall I’ve told you all,
That I did then conceal.
It must be by the Woman’s call
I must the whole reveal.
So, simple men, if you discern,
My Bible I’ve made good
And perfect true, before your view;
For so my Bible stood
To be reveal’d, as I conceal’d
v These mysteries all from Man; .
But now you see the mystery—
•
The Bevelation’s come:
Digitized b \ ? C j O O ^ I C
SATAN CONDEMNS!) THROUGH THE WOMAJT, 2?9
The Woman here for to appear
To have the thing reveal’d,
That Satan must his Trial share;
What I from Man conceal’d
Is now made known, I tell you plain.
And so I shall go on.
Because this is the Will of God,
My Spirit so is come ;
Then don’t appear to quench it here,
Despise these Prophecies;
For if you do, 1 tell you true,
In Adam’s fall you lie;
But if you’ll not, I’ll tell your lot,
That blameless you may come
Unto the coming of your Lord,
That now is hastening on.
Mv brightness here shall so appegff
'For to destroy your foe;
My Bible I havb now made clear.
If you have sense to know
That all from me fulfill’d must be, .
That made all at the first;
These mysteries deep no man can sec.
How that the end must hurst,
To make all clear my Bible here,
So let mankind stand m ute;
Know how the tempter did appear, .
And so I’ve struck the root
By the same hand that he condemn d9
And Man did cast on ME;
Burtmw to Man the same I’ll come.
And Man his blame shall see;
He can’t appear himself to clear.
For now he's compass'd round ;
The Woman is against him here,
As he at first was found
To cast on she/ you all do see,
And so I’ve turn’d it back;
Because in M i) the blame doth stand,
And he shall feel the rack
Of what on me was east by he;
For no man can appear
To say, that hell is join’d with thee,
That he his guilt must bear:
I tell thee, No ; it is not so.
But 1shall still go on ;
Though men do mock ray every word.
I’ll to the purpose come.
You say in peace your fears do. cease,
I shall not hasty come;
But I do tell you, unaware
The whole will be made known.—
*
Now write the word (hat’s on record,.
And then I’ll answer thee;
For they shall find their COMING. LoRIE
la Spirit now to be; v
Digitized by L r O O Q L e
28fCf. TlttfE EtffctANATtONS OP trie
Unto thee strong I now am come,'
And so I do appear ; ‘
Now write the word thats on record
And I shall answer here.’*
«
1 Thessalonians v. 2—-3— Knowing perfectly that
the day of the Lord so cometh as a thief in the night.
For when they shall say; peace and safety; then
sudden destruction cometh upon them , as travail
upon a woman with child; and they shall not escape.
“ Now I’ll appear to answer here :
The Type to thee is come;
As one with child thy heart’s beguil’d,
And so thou dost go on;
As sudden here is now thy fear,
Thy sorrows will increase;
And perfect so, I tell thee here,
It will come to the rest;
For sorrows on them now shall come,
As men do mock my word.
Sudden ’tis said that I shall come, ,
And so they’ll find their L ord;
So boast no more their danger’s o’er,
For dangers will abound;
And as thy travail pains are near—
Let all men judge the sound, B
For to your land it so will come,
As it is come to thee;
And as thy sorrows hasten on,
Men’s sorrows they will see.
The Type goes deep, let England weepi
And Pomeroy now may fear,
..Because from he thy grief I see,
Then let the Man take care.
Could it be so ? I tell thee, No
Without thy grief for Man,
Just like a Woman to compare,
For all to hasten on.
Now see the end, how thine will bend
In sorrow first I know,
Put after that thou’lt see thy end
In every joy to flow l
And perfect so, they all will know,
Believers’joy will come;
But those that seek thy overthrow
Will feel a Pomeroy’s doom:
I tell thee, first his grief will burst
To say he cannot bear
The every blame on him that’s cas^
Or how can he appear ?
Will be his cry, I now do say—
And so 'twill be to men;
Digitized by Google
They’ll find tlr.eir sorrows in a day
Ann know not how to stand.
,Like Pomeiov here they all may fear,
That think themselves secure •
He doth not know the news so near,
And sorrows that arc sure
On him to come, he cannot shun,
And here's the state for all—
I ?
tell you tis a Type for Man,
Apd so it now will fail.
Upon record now* stands my word,
How all things must appear ;
But men, like Pomeroy, mock their LorD,
Ajid judge they’ve nought to fear ;
’Twill not come true, be tore their view',
What’s in uiy Gospel peim’d ;
But tliey shall find my words are TRUE*
As Pomeroy finds his end
Jn grief to be, I now tell thee,
if he don’t soon repent ;
And if he do, I well do know,
In grief his mind is bent
For* to go through the whole to know:
He’ll find hi> honour's gone—
And now the shepherds, 1do know,
, Like Pomeroy they have done.
So thev may flee in grief like h e:
* His Type stands deep for all—
But here's a mystery, let men see
The shadow of the F all:
He fold thee first, when thou didst pla£*
T he T ruth into his hand,
He would obey what thou didst say,
And promis’d so to stand.
So he went on, to me ’twas known,
Till Satan caus'd his Fall;
But now from me lie's surely gone l
And I do tell you all
He must appear his Fall to clear,
Wrought by the Woman's hand;
As he doth say it came from thee,
That Trial he must stand ;
Then thou'lt appear the Truth to clear,
it is Fali ne'er came from thee;
ify; ’twas from he!!, 1 do know well,
And .so his Fall he 1
1see ;
Because the men with thee do join
To hold him to his word;
-And so I said they must combine,
dust like a th reefold cord,
And then Ids sand he’ll see won’t stand,
As he did say before :
TTwill break in two, he'll see and know ;
His binds cannot appear
To bind his w
rord, that’s on record,
. . And printed now by thee;
But now he'll find my th reefo ld .cofiD
In.unionjpin'd to be.
TlTPBjQF fPHE DOMING OF THE LORD UNAWARES, 2 8 1
JN " Digitized by C j O O ^ I c
So as ’tis plac’d the Truth is bursty
If you do wise discern—
The private letters come at last,
And now you see how all will burst
Just like my Bible to come round.
And so together j udge the sound*
So from my Bible I’ll go on
And shew it plain to every man,
How that your hope doth now appear*
And your rejoicing now draws near,
To wear the crowns that are from ME,
My coming shortly you will see*
For in the Spirit I am come,
Though it is quite unknown to Man*
Because my Spirit none do see,
Invisibly comes all to thee 5
And ’tis invisible to Man
The way at first, 1laid my plan ;
But now to thee, I have reveal’d
What I from ages have conceal’d,
/ To have the W oman claim the word, .
V Reveal the Promise as ’twas made,
And then my brightness shall appear
To bruise his head, and cast him there^
And then my Bible all will see,
The T ruth ofail fulfill’d to be:
For as the the words are spoken here,
Let them be penn’d and tnem I’ll clear.”
Colossians ii. 2, 3— The acknowledgment of the
mystery of God, and of the Father, and of C hrist;
in whom are hid all the treasures of wisdom and
knowledge.
“ Now if they all' are hid with we,
I ask mankind how they can see
The wisdom of my Gospel here ?
Or how my Bible I shall clear ?
’Tis said the knowledge is not in Man;
Then how,can he pretend to plan
A thing that’s said is hid in me ?
T’hen now the mysteries let men see: i
A thing that’s hid must be reveal’d ;
My Gospel cannot be conceal’d,
Because throughout, you well do kno^;
To be reveal’d, the words are so;
And as’t cannot be done by man,
For ’tis in God the knowledge stands,
Then sure from me it now must come 3
My Gospel’s hope is hastening on
To be fulfill’d in every word.
And bring you peace, as 1have said, . ,
And reconcile the whole to me ;
In heaven and earth it now shall be.
So here you see the Gospel’shope,
Then where’s there room for man to drop t
l n^ess, like Pomeroy, von Ho t»*-p,
The words now here likehim to Jmm*
" . ' Digitized by T
O O l ;
282 TRUE EXPLANATIONS OF THE BIBLE.
For here the Type goes deep for all.
W hen I my Bible forth do call,
Like Pomeroy they must all appear,
And say, “ our God we mocked here/*
As he aid mock thy written hand,
To say the truth should never stand :
But how himselfcan he now clear,
To say the truth was never there ?
Then he must come and boldly lie :
And of my Bible so I say
That they must all deny the same,
And say the truth must never comey
Because my Gospel lveshew’d clear,
The way 1come the whole to clear;
By the atonement of my blood
I come to make the Bible good.
And clear the Promise.of the Fall;
But then the knowledge, I tell all,
Was surely Aid with me that time, m
Till to reveal it was my mind :
And now 1 say the time is come
For to reveal my mind to Man;
That I am come to set yon free,
And your high calling you may see^
How in your Saviour doth appear :
And let the words be written here,
; That now before thy eye I’ve plac'd $
Then answer me ye fallen race."—
Thilippians‘
in. 14, 15, 20, and iv. 5— Press to*
ward the mark for the prize of the high calling of
G odin Christ Jesus. Let us therefore, as many a$
be perfect, be thus minded : and if in any thing ye
be otherwise minded, God shall reveal even this
unto you— For our conversation is in heaven; from
whence also we look for the Saviour, the Lord Jesus
Christ.— Let your moderation be known unto all
men. The Lord is at hand.
“ Now, Joanna, I shall answer thee. The mark
of the prize of the high calling of God in Christ
Jesus, is the prize of your Redemption ; and for that
cause I died to purchase Man with my dying Blood;
therefore, you are commanded to press forward to­
wards it. And those that are perfected in faith, let
them press forward towards i t ; but those that are
otherwise minded, through unbelief, and cannot
see the Gospel clear, I the Lord will reveal it to
them, by the revelation of my W ord: If they will
N n 2
WOW TH E HIGH CALLING OP MAN WAS FIX ED . 233
Digitized by v ^ r O O Q l e
2 8 4 TRUE EXPLANATIONS OF T H E B IB ^ E .
seek they shall find; if they apply their hearts unto
wisdom they shall get understanding.
A
For now to Man I thus shall come,
And your high callings here;
It is to see I died for ye,
And bring my Kingdom near;
For near ’tis come, 1sav, to Man,
And near the end to be.
If yoihcan see the Go-pels plan,
Then all must clearly see, w
In Heaven thy conversation is,
Like my Disciples first,
And now your Saviour, you may see,
Doth strong in Spirit best;
Then judge lin come and nigh at hand,
But Uu . it was not so,
And yet the wmds 1 made to stand,
That a!i the rdul might know,
When 1 did come, in Spirit strong,
fi\, warn that i was near,
Mmt be from Heaven the knowledge given,
Thy conversation there
Hath been with me, they all shall see,
Like my Di ciples first;
And now my Gospel Til make true,
And every thing shall burst;
For to my name they all shall come,
And bow beneath my feet;
What is in earth shall now be known,
The Lord will finish it. *
My hands in vain, I tell you men,
Were ne’er nail’cHo the tree ;
No, no; I said I’d come again,
In power they all should see.
If on this earth my shame came forth,
By Satan’s artful hand ;
If on this earth they spit on me,
And made me bow to Man ;
Now see my shame, discern my name,
How I was mock’d below ;
And do men think ’f shall so remain ,
For me to feel the blow ?
The earth by me was made, you say,
And all things I did create,
And still in shame you sefe my Name,
How men on me did spit;
Then shan’t 1 come in power strong
To make my honour clear ?
For the foundation shall be known
By me was placed here;
Because the two before your view,
God and the Son as one,
And the foundation all shall know,
Was order’d by that plan.
But here below, you all must know,
We did not honour gain;
Digitized by Google
FALLEN* MAN BLIND* TO' TH E HONOUH 2 8 *
For if the Law you all go through,
You’ll find the sons of men
Disgrac’d*their God,* as all is said*
And so despis’d his n a m e;
And when 1came, it must be known,
They put me so to shame ;
Then now can Men the Trial stand,
If I their judge appear,
To say this earth I can’t command,
For Men to worship here?
Then Men must Fall, I tell them all,
' Created of the dust;
They never did observe their call,
Nor how the end must burst:
Men I must free to worship me,
For so they must bow down*
And ’tis my Kingdom, all shall see,
The fabric first was found
Planted by me, you all do see,
And so the end shall come;
I’ll claim the earth, and now bring forth
A GLORIOUS EARTH for MAN !
Then men, you’ll see, will worship me,
And all the earth will join.
1 tell you deep’s the mystery
That now is hastening on;
As from the L aw, you all shall know,
And Gospel to appear,
The earthen vessels they did shew
Such spite and malice here,
When I came down from heaven’s high throne.
And shall I still stand mule ?
No, no; my honour shall be found
To strike unto the root
That cans d the Fall, I tell you all,
Alid him I’ll now destroy ;
And then this ea*th I’ll so bring forth
My honour to enjoy;
Honbur below, you ail shall know,
I'will receive from Man ;
But will you prove ’twas ever so ?
Bring me the age ’twas done;
That all did praise, adore my ways,
And your Creator bless:
I tell you, No; ’twas never so:
My honour here did miss,
As from the Fall, I tell you all,
And enmity in Man,
By Sat&n’s art, I’ll now impart,
And so it still doth stand;
For I’m despis’d, (vain men, grow wise)
And thousands do blaspheme;
Then how can earth set forth my worth.
Till I return again,
In power to conie^he earth to cl&im,
And have it ail my own ?
Digitized by Google
Then I shall see the hearts of men.
When Satan I’ve unthron'd 1
Now from my Death 1 this express,
If that was all for Man,
And never claim the earth my own,
I ask you, why ’twas done ?
You'll answer, here I did appear
Upon the cursed tree,
And so your sins I then did bear,
That you might live with me $
That way my Blood the victim stood;
Is all that’sjudg’d by Man 1
fo r so my Gospel you allude;
But answer my demand,
Why not before did I appear, .
Till thousands did roll on ?
Judge ye the number of the years
Before my Gospel came;
Then how before must they appear,
As things are judg’d by you?
You say, no Saviour then was near.
And yet the Jews did go
To worship me, you plain may see,
My Bible so doth stand.
You do not know the end of me,
Nor why I died for Man j
’T was to recal, I tell you all,
The purchace of my Blood.
Men lost my honour in the Fall,
And so the earth hath stood
Against your God, it must be know’d;
But now I’ll make an end.
I bore the blame on me was throw’d ;
And Satan now shall bend,
, I say, the same; I’ll raise my name,
And now the earth I’ll gain; •
In honour here I’ll now appear,
Join’d with the sons of men,
Who will bow down to wear my crown,
Or else to raise it up,
That l the Saviour may be found,
And make the Serpent drop,
Who doth appear in power here,
Disgrace the earth I made:
That is in me, I now tell thee,
Vain men, you're all misled,
To think that I, who dwell on high,
Created Earth for Man
Always to let my honour die,
I never could command
For men below to honour shew
Unto my holy name ;
Though well I know tis done by few,
But how do men blaspheme ?
In every land see how they stand, ,
No honour give to meM
TRUE EXPLANATION'S OP TH E BIBLE*
Digitized by Google
REDEEMED MAN SHALL HONOUR THE LORD. 287
But now they'll find my powerful hand
Shall set the nations free
From Satan's power, not to devour
The earth at first l made.
And now let Man the Trial stand ;
Where I the Fabric laid
Of Earth below, they all shall know,
That they must all submit;
For every knee shall bow to me,
And worship at my feet.
Those that will not I'll tell their lot,'
That they shall surely fall:
My Prayer they have quite forgot.
That 1 did tell them all
Always to pray, I now do say,
To have my kingdom come.
My power the fabric first did lay.
Then my Will must be done
Upon this Earth, that 1brought forth*
As it is done in Heaven ;
For both, I say, were form'd by ME,
And Man by me was given ;
His breath below, you all shall know,
And Life were form'd by me ;
And now my power I’ll surely shew,
The likeness all shall see.
To praise my name shall now be done,
I tell you, in this earth:
But can you prove, ye simple men,
My praises are set forth ?
You’ll say, a few the thing do do ;
But what’s a few to all ?
But in this Earth, that I brought forth,
I’ll make it so to tall
That not a few, you all shall know.
Shall honour give to me,
No, no ; ’tis all, 1 now do call,
So 1
*
1
1bring every knee.
As shame appears, I tell you here.
Unto me done below,
So on this Earth I’ll so bring forth
That honour men may shew
Unto my name, and none blaspheme;
Then Earth will worship me,
A dcI so my honour I will gain
On Earth, you all shall see.
Then you’ll see clear my Bible her$.
When I have ail went through ;
You’ll see my honour to appear,
And all my Bible true.
From first to last it so is plac'd,
And so it now shall come:
On Earth I'll reign, I say, with Men,
And my will shall ha done.
Jn spirit strong to Man I'll come,
1 And.all thingsI'll make new-~
Digitized by Google
1
*
#
t
;28& c : w im EXPLAflrATrDiN9i^^
Here ik-a.mystery deep for ixien# »
.** .1
- But they shall find it true; ; ;
TheiEavdi) below, all souls shall know,."
I tor my honour m ade ;
Andyljonbur here shall nowappear, *
To worship as I’ve said ;
. Bufvibcan't be done, I tell you plain, '
VV1tile Bin in Man abounds.
How can you say, the Lord dothRtiGN,
Over the. Earth he’s found
A p^u&GE.aiid king ? can yoi*begin /
Of a victorious God ‘ . ‘7*
T o b e l o w a l l ; m e n do go . v t . • ' I
To worship.as.’t is s a i d ’7
Bu t this ;urai'irbe,v.L*aw.Tell,thtre$.
1made the Barth at iuvt, o * 171’
AmVtoI me*i ll bring: eveey knee,..: ■T
My JknuuiA- here shall b'<ir$t: r - 7
I s^V*;:2ii)tB’Mah it no\x Khalilcome, ;1
The world thraugboutiiniade ;
And ail,:d mv, shall bo\y taittE, 1
My Bible so is laid. : y I -
So<if below my shame did gd, . 1
'Then now' below 1’Ucome# f
• . My"ImiKmr here this wayiHl clearv A
Ancl claimthe Earth my 0W1L
So VU«jfid here,, and saryno more
Till Learned men dispute.;
But deeper'mysteries, I shajltelear, , I
And then I'll strike the.root
That (lothoMe blame, and .doth me shariie,
- By working strong irtMari;
Btir.KbIshtdl know my every name# 7
My judgments are at*hand l”f :!
_______________________ . V r 1 ; • ; 7 . J - -t ■■ • ^ 7
In the next Book, xawe rs will be given to a Book
lately published under, the Signature of B. H. a M e­
ch a n ic, printed at*Stourbridge, in1Worcestershire ; and
the Rev. M r. G a r r e t t , of Lant Street, Southwark,
may be also noticed in this Work, as far as relates tothe
Instruction-of iguoi;ant People* who may i>e misled by
relying on the Wisdom and Impudence of such Men.
T hese E xplanations, beginning with PkiL ii. 10, 11. arc
con tin u ed in the F o u r t h :!Pa r t .
L O N D O N : :
PRINTED BY S. ROUSSEAU, WOOD STREET, sSa FIELDS;
* 1
AVD SOLD BY Ev TJELD, NO. % HIGH STREET,* S’JV GILESS, TWO
I>
or;Rs FMOM '?W
E*
XNGi!L INN ; E..CARPENTER, MEETING-HOUSE,
Ni/.VlNCT^N BUTTS,'^ \\T.Alt THE ' ELEPHANT . A ip ,CASTLE; C.
AIi eUTT, LAST i:£p OF OXD STREET, NEAR SHORfcDITCH CHURCH*.
ALSO BY VV.-SYMONDS, GANDY lANE ; THE*MISS EYELEIGHS, ST.
SLDWELL’S, EXETER; AND MR. CHILD, STOURBRIDGE, WQRCES*
T E R S H I R E . Digitized by
r n j ___________ TT___ T
TRUE
EXPLANATIONS OF THE BIBLE,
■ , PART THE FOURTH.
DISPUTES
AND -
C O N T R O V E R S I E S W I T H MAN K I ND S
' Ghe ear, 0 heavens / and be astonished, 0 earth!
The Lord hath a controversy with his people :
J have nourished and brought up children,
And they have rebelled against Ml*
Tvrasmuch then as God gave them the like gift as he did unto us*
v'hojtelicved on the. Lord Jems Christ; rvhat teas J9 that I could
withstand God. Acts xi. 17.
Then hath God also to the Gentiles granted repentance, unto Life*
Acts si. 18.
. F ro m the words of St. Peter I shall begin this
book, knowing in whom I .have believed, and the
strong visitation of the Spirit of the Lord unto me :
—‘What am I, that I could withstand God, when
his Power came with hjs Word to warn the Gentiles,
as Well*as the Jews } Therefore it is time for them
to look to that repentance that bringeth them to jife :
Now the 1 ke gift of faith, that tb~ Lord hath given
unto me, he hath given unto inai true believers*
who rely bn his promises that are made throughout
S. Roufleau, Printer,
Street, Spa Field?*
Digitized by
;the Bible. N ot only a L it e sp ir it u a l , but a
L if e tem poral is promised in Holy Writ.
Revelation xxi. 8— And I heard a great voice out o f
heaven, saying. Behold the tabernacle of God is
with men, he will dwell with them, and they shall
be his people, and God himself shall be with them,
and be their God. Ver. 4— And God shall wipe
away all tears from their eyes; and thefe shall be no
more death, neither sorrow nor crying, neither shall
there be any more pain : for the former things are
passed away. Chap. xxii. 1p— If any man shall take
away from the words of the book of this prophecy,
God shall take away his part out of the book of life,
and out of the Holy City.
On reading the Bible I am lost in wonder at the
madness of mankind ; and am sorry to say, in this
Christian land many professed Christians are like
H erod: because he saw it pleased the Jews that he
had killed James, he proceeded further to take Peter
also This wretched principle is to©'prevalent in our
days; or men would never go on in so blind and
ignorant a manner, to persecute the Spirit of G od;
or be so presumptuous as to write against a Spirit, and
call it the Devil, before they have clearly searched
into every truth, that they might be able, with a
good conscience, to justify the things they are do­
ing; but I see mankind are more inclined to be
men pleasers (like Herod) than to follow on to
know the Lord. From a book that was written
against me at Stourbridge, I was ordered first to
draw my own judgment, and then the Lord would .
answer me. My judgment is as follows; His book
is entitled, “ Plain Remarks, by B. H. a Mechanic
and I shall shew my remarks as a simple'woman.
— O vain man, be wise, and hear the word of the
Lord, not boast of wisdom without wisdom. If you
hear lies do not affirm them ; for in so doing yon
2^0 TRUE EXPLANATIONS OP THE BIRLff.
# Acts xii. 3, &
Digitized by G o o g l e
make yourself the liar; which is to be seen in the
fourth page of your preface, wherein are lies that
.you cannot answer to. Let a man not boast of wis­
dom, before he can assert what he publishes. H e
should have read my Books first, and heard what the
Lord hath said unto me, and what grounds I had for
my Prophecies, before he began to draw such wild
judgm ent; then he would have known the truth of
my Prophecies, that they were copied off, and put
into the hands of ministers, from 1796 to the year
1801, so as they could be able to read them, <
ore-
telling the events that would take place in those
years. Besides he would have known I told my
friends of what, was hastening on, as well as What I
had written in ninety-two ; therefore a man should
be clear in judging before he began to condemn,
lest he bring,his lies upon his own head; as the au­
thor of this book hath done. These are his own
words— “ she makes a scribbling upon sorrie papers,
and delivers them to some of her followers, and
“ when any remarkable occurrence happens in the
**world, she being possessed of a great degree of head
4*knowledge, with a retentive memory, goes to these
“ papers, and pretends to read what has happened,
“ in the same manner as if it had been previously in*
** serted in them ; there is a person writes down
“ what she pretends to read, and then it is publish-
** ed.” Here the author must have judged me ano­
ther such as himself; for I make no doubt but such
would be the conduct of him, if he could by arts
deceive the world, by making a wrong interpreta­
tion of the Scripture, as he is now trying to do,
that men may wrest them to their own condemnation:
for if his judgment be true in the t)th page, where
he says— “ that when our Redeemer finished the
whole on Calvary, it gave the devil, the old serpent, *
at that time such a deadly blow on the head, that it
destroyed him that hath the power of death, that is
the devil.” Then there can be no more condemns-
O O 2
v
. Digitized by Google
BXUARKS ON TEXTS QUOTED XT B. B . 4Q I
$
don to the devil, for then all .condemnation o f tin
must come upon man’s own head, he having no
devil to tempt him to ev il; as the world has been
as sinful since Satan was destroyed, as before, then
of what use can his destruction be to man? or what
honour and glory hath it brought unto the Lord ?
for how few believe,in a crucified Saviour 1 how few
give honour or glory to his name! Oh, ye simple
and unwise ! whose tongues go before your senses,
without your taking a serious view, how soon the
powers of hell worked in the hearts of men to destroy
the disciples, in the same cruel manner that they put
the Lord of life and glory to death. Then to what
purpose is the destroying the power of the devil, if
his power still remains the same in men ? But this
is as false and mistaken a notion, as it is for the man
to say, tc I only pretend to read- prophecies”— Poor,
lying, ignorant man ! though jny handwriting no
man can read before me, yet when I shew them' my
letters and read the words to them, every man can
then read them after m e; for my handwriting is such,
that it is impossible for me to deceive any man, when
1 so read it to them ; so this man has asserted a falsi­
ty, that he can never make good, and who can be
proved a liar by more than forty or fifty witnesses,
that have affirmed they can read every.word after
me ; besides, I have learnt some to read my hand­
writing, and I have lent them my manuscript books,
and they have taken out some of my communications.
So this wise mechanic has erred as much in his judg­
ment of my writings, as he has of the kingdom of
Christ; for he blends all together with such igno­
rance, that no man upon earth can explain his mean­
ing. He saith— “ Christ’s peaceable kingdom on
■
*
*earth, certainly is to take place ; but it is not a
i( literal or a temporal kingdom that is spokeii of ;
“ but a spiritual kingdom.” Now how can this man
-explain his meaning"? Will he say that that spiritual
kingdom took place when our Saviour was crucified?
*0* TRUE EXPLANATIONS OP TUB BIBLE.
^ 'Digitized by Google
and that his blessed and holy Spirit was then poured
out upon all flesh ? What then does he make of his
S p ir it ? But if that spiritual kingdom was to
come upon earth, it must be temporal, as well as
spiritual—^when the Lord claims the kingdoms of the
earth to be the kingdoms of the l iv in g G od, when
h e will dwell in every heart, and at whose Name every
knee will bow. This wise man saith, “ that it
is past,” and quotes Revelation xx. “ that i
t i
s to
come, when Saitan is bound and cast into the bottom­
less pit, and during that thousand years Christ will
in a more particular manner reign in the hearts of
his people on earth.” Now if this is not a temporal
as well as a spiritual reign, I know not what he can
mean, unless he supposes the earth to be superior in
purity to the heavens, and that they could not have
fulness of joy there; and that he will destroy all that
are living on earth in a temporal body, and bring the
saints down from the heavens for to reign in a par­
ticular manner in their hearts, when on this earth ;
but if these are the spirits of the saints that are to
have the spiritualkingdom, without any thing tempo­
ral in it, I ask how Satan, when he is let loose, is to
go out and deceivethesespiritualsaintsagain? Now
before a man begins to. take upon him to lay the
Scriptures before the public, he should call reason to
his assistance, to know whether it is consistent with
common kense; or else, I think, as a mechanic, he.
had better follow his employment, than try to de­
ceive weak minds like himself: for if the whole tern--
poral reign of man is to be cut off, Satan can have
no nations to deceive. He himself allows that Satan
is to deceive the. nations no more, till the thousand
years are accomplished ; yet if they are cut off', there
are no nations l
e
f
t to deceive at all ; then how can
Satan ever go out to deceive ? or why is he confined
that he may not deceive them, if there be no more
temporal reign in man ? I mu t say of this man> a*
he hath said of me-*-he must himself know that he is
REMARK* OK TEXTS OVOTED BT B. H. 2<)3
Digitized by Google
S g 4 T I tf E EXPLANATIONS OP TH fi B IB L E S
Bn impostor, unless he is quite out of his senses; bufc
as to me, I can call heaven and earth to witness, I
Never was an impostor ; neither did I overtty to de­
ceive any man *. Now this wise man says, the mi­
nisters are the “ spiritual pr oph ets as St. Paul
says— “ despise not p r o p h e c i e s a n d this man
Speaks largely of prophecies, that he might go on iii
his publication with treating on prophecies; now I
must ask this wise man, if those whd are called the
ministers ofthe Gospfel are influenced by the Spirit of
God, and are called the spiritual prophets, why do
the preachers differ so much in their preach in g? and
one preacher to write against another ? There an*
some who erroneously say, that our Saviour was an
impostor, which is blasphemy at the highest; and
yet they preach repentance of sin ! others wretch­
edly say— he was not the Son ofG o d ; yet they be­
lieve him to have been agood man ! Now these are as
ignorantasthewriter ofthe book: for how can anyone
vainly imagine that h e was a good man, if he told
diem what was not true, when he said to them he was
the Son of God? and before Abraham was h e was ?
and that he came from God, and h e went to God ?
and that h e and h is f a t h e b were one? Now if h e
knew all this to be false, how could they call him a
good man ? For h e spoke as no other man ever
spoke ; and he wrought miracles that no other man
ever wrought; and he left all on record, for him to
be worshipped as no other man was ever suffered to
be worshipped. Then how can man vainly imagine
the Lord God would give him power to work such
miracles to be worshipped equal with himself, if he
was not what is said of him in the Psalms— ‘Thou art
my Son, this day have I begotten thee ? Now if he
was not what he said, h is Mother- must be a liar,
and his Father the same; the wise men that came
from the East the same ; and his Apostles the same j
* This was proved at m j Trial* lately published
Digitized by Google
for they said they saw the heavens opened, and the
H oly Ghost descending like a dove, saying, this is
jpy beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. Now if
this is false altogether, how can I believe the Gospel ?
Y et such belief is in many of the prophets of this day,
that this wise mechanic calls prophets; I mean the
preachers of different sects; for they are universal
throughout the world t and is this the Spirit I am not
t» quench i are these the prophecies I am not to de­
spise 1 then to what pit of destruction must this
wise mechanic lead me ! 1 must retort back on his
head his own words; he must know he is a bold im­
postor, who imposes on weak minds to believe such
doctrine as this : because a man preaches repentance,
that he hath the Spirit of God and is a prophet l i t ,
for I have heard these very men, with the senti­
ments 1 have mentioned, preach repentance as much
as any other m en; the reason their pernicious doc­
trine is believed is, because they mix honey with
their poison, and deceive the people by this preach­
ing of iBpentance. and by which reason these false
prophets are believed. There is another set of false
prophets among the preachers, who profess to be­
lieve the Gospel of Christ in its truth concerning
our .Saviour being what he said he was, and believ­
ing him truly the Son of God, and yet they jsay—
he only died to save those whom the Lo.rd had
elected before th£ foundation of the world, and all
the rest were ordained by the Lord to be lost!— And
are these also the prophets I am to believe! when
it is written— As I live, saith the Lord, I have no
pleasure in the death of the wicked, but rather in
them that repent and turn : turn ye, turn ye, for
why will you die, O house of Israel! saith the Ix>rd.
Here the judgment of man must say, the Lord said
what he never meant—to say he had no pleasure in
their death, if he created them to be lost, and they
xould not;-be saved ; then they must say it was his
^jdeasms, thus to create them to perish; and if the
REMARKS OK TEXTS OUSTED BT B. It. 2gf
Digitized by Google
decrees of heaven were so fixed, why should the
Lord mock them, to invite them to return, when
hk knew he had made them so as they could not re­
turn ? . Does not the Lord say, Oh ! that there Was
such a heart in them as I could wish ? But if the
Lord made them so at first, and designed they
should be so before the creation of the world, or
before they were born, then they had the heart that
it was the will of the Lord they should have; yet
such preachers are common in the world, that call
themselves spiritual preachers: and yet their doc­
trine is full of blasphemy; for they.say, the Lord
saith what he never meaneth. And yet I know,
they would answer, they never said such a thing in
their lives. This I grant ; they do not speak the
words so plain as 1 have explained it, and yet their
meaning is to the same purpose. Now if these are
the prophets I am to believe, then what road am I
to take ? for there are three different roads that are
already known to the world from these, spiritual
preachers; and now I shall point out the fourth:
those are they who declare all the power and will
to be in man, to do either good or evil, as he likes.
Now though this doctrine is not so against thevLord,
to point out his cruelty like the former, yet it is a
mistaken and false notion in man, to think he hath
power of himself to withstand all the temptations of
the devil. This, I know by experience is false;
for without the Lord we can do nothing; and we are
commanded from the Scriptures to seek the Lord
and he will be found of us; to draw nigh unto
Christ, and he will draw nigh unto us ; to commune
with God in our hearts, and he will commune with
us; but without him we. can do nothing; but if
we are workers with God, he will be a worker with
us ; and that faith is the gift of God, and, not of
ourselves. Then how can man have all power, to
will and to do, without the grace of God assisting
him? Yet such doctrine I have heard preached;
,2()5 TRUE EXPLANATIONS OB THE BIBLE.
Digitized by Google
therefore, among all these spiritual prophets, that'
are Galled ministers, I never heard one of them in
my life but what their opinions led them to err from
the Bible in some things; or in others to go from
the truth of the Gospel ; for I never heard a mi­
nister in my life that ever preached to the perfect
truth of the Gospel ; and since my writings have
gone Out in the world, I find the ministers them­
selves, and these spiritual preachers, wrest the Scrip­
tures more than any men, denying all spiritual gifts*
and all revelation* and all visitation from the Lord ;
as though the Spirit of the Lord had entirely for­
saken us, ever since our Saviour died. Then the
Apostles must, be false, who so often affirm, that
the Lord will visit us again in the Spirit, and alt
hidden mysteries, that arc concealed from man,
shall be revealed by the Spirit of God. But this is
now denied by these spiritual prophets, as well as
by this wise mechanic ; then where is the prophet
that I can trust to ? But does this wise man observe
that spiritual gifts are called one thing, and prophe-.
cies are called another ? so that a man may have
spiritual gifts to teach his people, without having
the spirit of prophecy to warn them of what is hasten­
ing on ; besides, every man must stand in his place;.
and the Scriptures must be fulfilled as they are spo­
ken. Then how can this wise mechanic, with the
ablest English divines, say, that thes Woman in
Revelation xii. means the church in .all its splen­
dor ? Hew then can she be travailing in birth,
Grying to be delivered from all this splendor, and
Satan standing before her, and also the earth perse­
cuting her. that, she is forced to flee into the wil­
derness ; and the dragon casting out floods against
her ; and the earth helping the Woman ? When
he says.the •earth is trampled under her feet, and the
church of Christ is in all its glorious state, how then is
all this persecution to come, when, as he says, the
sun of righteousness, “ the Lord Jesus Christ, of hjs
REMARKS ON TESTS QUOTED BY B. H. 2£)7
Digitized by Google
2q8 True e x pl a n a t io n s op the e ib l £,
“ righteousness imp'ited,and imparted, and the moon,
that is the earth, and its sublunary vanities, under
“ her feet ?" Where s the man can make this join
together, that the church is in- this glorious state as
he mentioned ? that Christ hath subdued all vanity f
and that all evil is thrown beneath him ? and the glo­
rious Gospel and the Apostles shining bright, as they
are‘prophesied to the end to be'in this persecuted
state, as mentioned in the Revelation ? Oh,
what an impostor must such a man be, willingly
and knowingly to impose on weak minds 1 Men
should discern what they are writing, before they
take upon them to correct what they cannot mend,
or understand. And now I shall come to the 14th
page : Hebrews xi. where he speaks of a living
Faith, the substance of things hoped for, the evi­
dence of things not seen ; and without the evidence
of this Faith upon the heart it neyer can be called a
living Faith. Here this wise pretended corrector,
with his plain remarks, has turned the iveapon back
on his own head, and has shewed himself to have a
dead faith. But from the evidence th.1t -I have had
of things not seen, and before they sprang, forth I
told men of them, and the faith that is planted in
me, that I should see the substance of things I hoped
for, he assures me this faith is the gift of God, it
comes from God, and it leads to G od; then he
must allow my teaching is of God; for he adds, if
any man have evidence of this Faith in the soul,
though in ever so small a degree, it is utterly im­
possible for that man to be lost; then it is certainly
impossible for me to be lost, when the Lord hath so
strongly implanted that Faith in my breast— that
the gates of hell should never prevail against me j
and in opposition to men and devils, HE would
carry on Hrs work in me and by m e ; and to his
Honour and glory he has done i t ; for he that trust-
eth in the Lord is. as Mount £ion, that cannot be
rtioyed. But now see what this wise writer says fur-
Digitized by Google
th er:—Without this Faith it is impossible to please
God. Then where is his faith to please God, if he
believes the Lord will go from all his words and all
his promises ? But when I see the Lord has not
jjone from his words or promises in the past, I shall
surely trust him for the time to com e; therefore he
might well add—The Lord is the author and finisher
of this Faith. Here he brings forward the Gospel to
strengthen me ; and the life which I now live in the
flesh, I live by faith of the Son of God, who loved
me and gave himself for me. This, he remarks, is
a true and lively faith. Then now be wise, Oh sim­
ple man, this living and strong faith was planted in
mfe more than thirty years ago; or I never should
•have had faith in ninety-two, to believe it was the
visitation of the Lord, to leave my work to write
what was coming upon the whole earth, wheiv there
was no appearance of it, if the Lord had not been
the author of my faith before to trust 'in h im , and
•bey his word : and so he has carried me on to be
the finisher'thereof. Therefore this wise writer
might well say, the effect this living faith has upon
the heart, is wonderful—and wonderful effects has
this faith had upon me. He further adds, whenever
this faith is planted in a man’s heart, by the opera­
tion and influence of the Holy Spirit, there is an ef­
fectual change in that man’s life:— And I am the
witness for myself (and the Lord is witness for m»)
that I have been dead to the world as to all its plea­
sures and vanities, and the world to m e; and the
desire of my soul, for thirty 3cars past, has been to
vJ'ish to live to God, and to God only; so this man
has assured me, my calling is sure; that the Lord
hath called me with an effectual call; and that he
will save me with an everlasting salvation, who died
fpr me, and has fulfilled the law and made it ho­
nourable—that never said to the seeking seed 'of
Israel, seek ye my face in vain1
: but out of my
weakness he hath made me strong, and to war va«
P p 3
REMARKS ON TEXTS QUOTED BV B. H.
Digitized by Google
liantly in the fight; and I fear not but he will turn
to flight my enemies, and stop the mouths of the
lions, qu nch the flames of fire, escape the edge of
■
the sword. . This he hath quoted in the l<3th page,
that the Lord will do for them where their faith is
strong in him. Then does not this man' build up
with one hand what he is trying to pull down with
the other ? as he has pretended to judge of a thing
lie knows nothing about, as he does not know me;
and, I fear, , does not know m
yMaster ; yet, God
forbid I should deal as harshly with.him, ns he hath
with me ; lor I trust thfc Lord may, at gome places,
be working in.lfis heart, to bring forward Scriptures
to strengthen my faith, and to clear me, while he is
trying 10 condemn me, that he hereafter may see
his own folly, and that he has but a notion of faith,
U dead faith, without a lively sense of faith j for if
he was acquainted with th,e Scriptures, and kn£w
yvhat was the duty of a Christian, he would never
have acted with such gross errqrs, to pretend to write
against my books, and confess himself he had read
but little of them. How unjustly should'I publish
against the man, or condemn his book, before I had
read it through apd had seen what to condemn in it ?
I do not condemn the texts of Scripture he has
brought forward ; but I condepm the manner he hath
explained most of them ; though | grant his explana­
tions are short; but in the ] 5th and lfith pages, I
Confess his explanations are'wise and just and per-
' fectly ,trpe ; which I can prove by happy experience.
And pow I shah cpme to his observation on Sealing.
He says, mine f‘is a new fashioned mode of sealing,
whicl; { vainly imagine as a ,Type of the Israelites’
sprinkling the blood ;v he says, “ that passage refers
to the blood pf Christ,” Does the ignorant man sup-
Fose I did pot knpty tha^ as well as he did ? a thing
w^s taqght from rpy cradle, that the sprinkling of
the door posts was the spripking of the blood of
Christ, as tlie'Lamb slain from the foundation of tjtg
300 TRUE EXPLANATIONS OF TH E B IB EE.
Digitized by Google
world ; and to sprinkle -our hearts from de&d works,
that in and through the merits of his Blood we '
might be saved. But could not his Blood cleanse
us without Types and Shadows ? Could His not
have saved us if the blood had not been sprinkled
upon the door posts ? You will answer, Yes; the
Lord could have done it ; but he did not choose to
do it without setting a temporal sign for a spiritual
salvation. Then what have you to marvel .it the
Sealing, if the Lord should require a temporal love
of man, that they should shew their love to God, by
subscribing with their hands unto him, to fulfil the
words of the prophet * ? And «now to fulfil that
word, believers are required to sign with their
hands unto their Lord, that they wish for Christ's
kingdom to come, and m s will to be done on earth
as it is in heaven ; and Satan's power to be de­
stroyed ; then to have a temporal seal, that
they are the sealed of the Lord, whereby they
are sealed to the day of Redemption; so that
the things temporal and spiritual may stand to­
gether of sealing, as the things temporal and
spiritual stand together of the blood of sprink­
ling. Now if the sealing be not a temporal thing,
why is it said in the Revelation, hurt rrot the earth,
nor the $ea, till the servants of Qod are sealed in their
foreheads ? He does not say, till tlfey are sealed in
their hearts, but in their foreheads, meaning their
names are. sealed—as every man’s name is signed in
his forehead when he is baptized; and a particular
number was mentioned ; but that number can never
be known from the h e a rt—who is sealed, and who is
n ot; blit by the names the number is known. Now
do men vainly suppose, when it is said the-e dread- ,
ful judgments should be prevented until the num­
ber were sealed by their panics, and iliar those that
tyere not sealed had the mark of the beast in their
■ _ * Isaiah -\liv. 5,
REMARKS ON W HAT B. H. SAID ABOUT SEAtING. 301
Digitized by Google
foreheads, (which is a thing easily to be understood)
they are signed with the sign of the cross on thje
forehead in token hereafter that they shall fight man­
fully under Christ’s banner, against the world, the
flesh, and the devil; but now that they are called
forward to fight against the world, the flesh, and the
•devil, they refuse to let their names be seen in pub­
lic, that they have a desire for the kingdom of
Christ? Though they receive their names in the fore­
head, to fight manfully for him ; but let them, know,
the cross of Christ came through the sinfulness o f the
the beast ; then if they are willing to wear that mark
of the cross, but^ refuse to sign for Christ to come
and wear the crown, and possess the kingdom he died
to purchase and redeem, they must remain with the
mark of the beast in their foreheads; whose mark
they are willing to continue, and their pretended
love is but hypocrisy. I could enlarge much on this
subject, as. our Saviour compares things temporal
' with things spiritual : and the sealing is made plain
to me, that it is a command from the Lord to
those, who wish for his coming. But I am sorry
to say there is one fatal truth in his book—.
that some of the. sealed people are just like
the Calvinists, that when they think they are the
elect of God, they may commit what sin they
please— they aife the elect, and they shall be saved.
This erroneous belief I have seen in. many of the
Calvinists, and have heard them say, they knew they
were the elect of the Lord, when their lives and con­
duct have been such as a moral man would have been
ashamed to live in, if he had any regard for his ho­
nour amongst men. I heard one of them say myself,
when he was reproved for swearing: <
c he was
.in no sin, it w as not he swore, it, w as sin that dwelled
in him swore." The sam^ excuse I heard made for
i.drunkcnness; and another who judged himself
elect, for stealing, when he was found out, said—
<
■
“ The devil Would tempt the Children o f God, so the
IQ2 TRUB EXPLANATIONS.OF TUB BIBLE.
Digitized by Google
remarks bit tEXTs alJoT'fef) bx b ."ft. 303
itn could not be imputed to him ; fo r he knew he w as
the elect, and w as sure of being saved. This I have
heard and known. All manner of sins and the black­
est crimes have been committed by these men, that
Call themselves the elect, and said, they "were sure o f
being saved do w hat they would. .Now I fear this er­
roneous and mistaken notion is in some of the sealed ;
for the riet was cast into the sea gathering in good
and bad; and to fulfil the Scriptures perfectly,
many put their hands to the plough and drew back ;
that meaneth, after they had signed their names for
Christ’s kingdom to be established, and Satan’s de­
stroyed, they drew back and destroyed their seals.
Then how can they be fit for the kingdom of heaven }
Now I shall end with one observation more, on page
23, where this wise writer brings every word against
him self: How can a man handle the Scriptures so de­
ceitfully, and not have his own conscience condemn
him ? I shall go from the Scripture he quotes from
Jeremiah xiv. 14, 15—Then the Lord said unto me,
the prophets prophesy lies in my name : I sent them
not, neither have I commanded them, neither spake
unto them : they prophesy unto you a false vision,
divination, and a thing of nought ; and from the deceit
of their hearts. Here this man must make himself
a prophet, whom the Lord hath spoken t o ; or-bring
himself under the very character that he hath here
mentioned, whom the Lord hath not spoken unto,
but who is prophesying out of the deceitfulness of his
own heart. Then let him tremble at the following
words, which he has brought against himself: There­
fore thus saith the Lord— By sword and famine shall
these prophets be consumed. Here he points the
reader to Jeremiah xxiii. l6 —They make you vain;
they speak a vision out of their own hearts, and not
out of the mouth of the Lord: Now this man, if.he
does not make himself a prophet that the Lord hath,
spoken to, must make himself the false prophet,
that prophesiefh lies in God’s name j saying, I have
♦ •
Digitized by Google
^reamed, I have dreamed ; but what a dream, of
ydiat a delusion must this man be in, to place the
Scriptures in this manner against himself, thinking
' to make the people err by his lies, and his lightness ?
If he say, the Lord hath not spoken to him, the fol­
low ing lines condemn .him— Yet I sent them not,
nor commanded them.. Then if the Lord neither sent
him nor commanded him, out of his own mouth lie
is condemned to be fed with wormwood, and drink
the waters of gall. To walk in lies, and strengthen
the hand of evil doers, that none may turn from the
evil of their ways, he says, they are all unto the
Lord as Sodom and Gomorrah— and like the people
of Sodom and Gomorrah, this man hath made him­
self : who went to destroy the angels, when they
came to Lpt, and despised the warning of Lot, till
the (ire came down from heaven to destroy them.
Now. if this man had one grain o f sense or reason,
his own handwriting would come against him, and
make him tremble like Belshazzer of old, and his
knees smite one against another, with the conscious­
ness of his own guilt— that, he hath either made
himself a prophet of the Lord, or he has brought
every text of Scripture against himself, to condemn
himself: how is lie wresting the Scriptures to his own
condemnation ! Now let him mark Ezekiel xiii. 18
— Thus saith the Lord God, woe, woe to the women,
that sew pillows to all arm-holes, and make kerchiefs
upon the head of every statue, to hunt souls ! Will
ye hunt the souls-of my people ? And will ye save
the souls alive that come unto you ? Here, vain and
simple man ! with all the art you can invent, you
are trying to hunt the souls of those who wish to flee
from the wrath to come, and are warned to prepare
for the coming of their Lord, that they may be able
to stand in the evil day. But you are telling them you
can save their souls alive, if they will come unto you;
but can you save your own soul in that day, when
you have tnocked the visitation of the Lord, despis-
i
304 TRUE EXPLANATIONS OF THE BlSBiSi
Digitized by Google
R8WARRS O SYBXTS UVO ttD BY S. H. 305
%
dTiis invitation, and despised his threatCnings, and
tire telling men to come unto you, that you will save
their souls alive ? Does it not plainly appear that you
would slay the souls that should not die,'and save
the souls alive that should not live— by your lying
•unto my people that hear your lies ? Hear what
followeth from your own words : Because with lies
ye have made the heart of the righteous sad, whom
I have' not made sad ; and strengthened the hand of
the wicked that he should hot turn from his wicked
ways by promising him life.' Here are-the false pro’
-
phets, •that are cheating and deceiving the hearts of
the people r telling them no dangers are near-, rid
evils are threatened, hut that they will save their'souls
’alive if they come unto them— by prophesying liek
unto them out of their own hearts, when they haVe
seen nothing. Let the writer take a serious view of
Lis own -works, and conscious guilt must coridemft
himi -that lie hath made kerchiefs to lean upon/that
snuk .be torn from him, and that never did support
him ;, but I have a'foundation stronger'to trust to
.—m y trust is in the Rock of Ages, and not in my
own weak judgment; though he pretends to com­
pliment me in the beginning of the book, of having
a great deal of head knowledge ; but I cannot pay
him that compliment; for he has written the book so
much against himself, as though he had neither
-head knowledge, or spiritual grace; and no morfe
^understood what he was writing than he understood
to y books, that he said he had read but little of.
JBut now I shall conclude with his own words— <
{Let
inen be careful of the fatal consequence of being
found.trusting to na refuge of lies.” His subtlety
jexhorts men- to flee to Jesus Christ, as the only trttfe
rdfuge; while at tbersame time he is using all the arts
Jk Is mils' cr of. to persuade them not to be looking
fo,r and .hastening to the coming of the Lord Jesus
Christ-;, which in,all my writings I am called to warh
men of. J Hp ptctlnds to own. Christ as. the form of
godliness, but denieth the powex. thereof ; yet pro-
^ Digitized by Google
306 .$rj$b-;
: on -irUjr # » * * .
fps?ess to say, that the Spirit ofGod'niay be applied
to thpir hearts,;;that he<would turn th#mif«jm dari^
jiess- to light, and from the power,of Satan unto
righteousness; and teach them toknow.tbe, Gospel,
which is able to make them wiseuntoeternalsalvation;
and yet when this wisdom, this knowledge, and-this
these,words, that, “ you must repent of it.aU, foritvis
•nil wickedness;,apd pray God to changerthe thoughts
o f the hhartaqdw hereto must they be changed.? I
must answer, the thoughts of the heart musf.bechaog^
pd of him that printed this book: for I perceive, he is
jn the gall.of bitterness, and in the-bonds?of-iniquity.
But here I shall say no further of him, .tolanother
book is printed against me,by G arrett, a:preacher
o f Zion Chapel, in Southwark, quoting:many of
jfbe same passages of Scripture asthe form erbut
with more confidence than him. He has hlled his
b^ok with lies against me, which the reader will.see
in its placp, as rhave quoted hiis own words, which
are entirely false concerning me;* j.But when the:book,
was brought to me, I was ordered, to read it through,
and put it in the Bible without knowing where,
which I did, and found it in the Maccabees; The
book lay- on,: 2 Maccabees vii.' 10. thafsLwte ordered
to pen—But think not thwu. that takest in hand to
strive against God; that ;thou shalt escape unpunish­
ed.. J was ordered to put my spectacles in my Bible
without knowing where, andthey were,in the first of
Revelation apd the ending of Jude; but the verse that
I am. ordered tp quote is Revelation i. 11—-Saying,
J am' Alpha and Omega, the first and the. last; and,
what thou seest, write in a book, and send it-urrto the
seven churches. Jude, verse 18—How that they toW
you there should be mockers in the last,times, who
should walk after their own ungodly luat^The thin}
«- f What if?4said in this book as to. Garrett relates chiefly* to his wrest?
Jngof the Bible, ^ bis other falschoods.and presumption,-as well as
the unfouiide,4 charges of others, are answered ia separate boob, iq
oftler t6 keep the innocent* and unwary from being misled fry
epch men, whpmake lies their refuge,* : . , . ; , y
Digitized by C j O O ^ I c
f t i P L t t o 6ARBE«rt Oft T E x ts a tro tfri) a t tfia f. 307
time I'was ordered to open the BibVe/and it was in the
1 Esdras X
L 41 to the end—-For the earth hast-thoii .
not judged with truth. For thou hast afflicted the
meek, tnou hast-hurt the peaceable ; thou hast loved
liars ahd‘destroyed the dwellings of them that-brought
forth fniit; and hast cast down the wallsof such asdid
thee no harm, &c. These were the places I openedto;
then I was ordered, to quote the chapter that he had
mentioned, Jeremiah xxiii. 1— W oe be unto the pas­
tors that destroy and scatterthe sheep of tny pasture,
saith the lord ;1 V et. 28 o f the same Chapter-?—The
prophet that hath a dream, let him tell a dream; and
he'thatf hath my word, let him speak my word faith*
folly. What is the chaff to the Wheat ? saith thfc
Lord. Jeremiah i. 8, 9— Be not afraid of their
faces: fo ri am with thee to deliver thee, saith the
Lord. Then the Lord put forth his hand and
touched my mouth. And the Lord said unto me, be*
hold, I have put my words in thy mouth. V et. 4, 5.
-—The word of the Lord came unto me, saying,
Before I formed thee in the belly I knew thee ; and
■before thou earnest forth out of the womb I sanctified
thee, and I ordained thee a prophet unto the nations.
THE ANSWER OF THE LORD.
** Now, Joanna, 1 shall answer thee before thott
goest any further: For out of his own mouth he hath
condemned himself, without he can prove I have
visited him, to be a prophet to all nations ; and out
Of his own mouth he hath justified thee, from thtk
Chapters he mentioned. Now call to thy remem­
brance the days of thy youth, and the promise I
made to thy mother,' before thou wast born, and
'how often I h ive told thee, no weapon that is formed
-against thee should prosper *» Now mark the words
he hath poyjted out before thee—Be not afraid of
their faces, for 1 am with thee to deliver thee, saith
the 'Lord. Now mark the last verse— And they shall
fight against thee, but they shall not prevail against
• See theFifth Ilook of Prophecies, pageSOS i
w ^ p
'n
i1
" :!:,GoOglC *
thee, for I am with thee, saith the Lord, to deliver
thee. Now here is^ the wisdom of man, who boasts
he is fighting with the weapons of my Spirit, or the
sword of my Spirit; but he shall know he is the false
prophet, the false priest, that goeth when I have
never sent him ; that prophesieth in my Name, when
I have never commanded him ; for he trusteth to a
vainyision of his own imagination, and a lying di­
vination from the truth of my Bible; and greatly
hath he erred in visions; for know, throughout my
Bible, what visions have been shewed in all ages to the
prophets; and are not the Revelations visions?
Therefore I ordered thee to open the Bible, to shew
thee the visions of John : and there thou tindest thine
eyes, as thou pallest them. Now let them see Ver. 13
of the visions of John—And in the.midstof the seven
candlesticks, one like unto the Son of Man cloathed
with a garment down to the foot, and girded about
the paps with a-golden girdle. Head through the
Chapter, you will find it a vision 5 but these visions
were seen .in heaven by John, in the Spirit; but
know it is written by the prophet Joel, in the latter
days when I come to fulfil the whole, and pour out
my Spirit upon all flesh, that your young men shall
see . visions, and your handmaids shall prophesy.
These visions must be seen here below. But how do
men take the word of God in their mouths and handle
it deceitfully, without knowledge or understanding ?
.Now mark what I told tbee of this man in the begin­
ning, and mark particularly where his book was
-found ; and know that he is- now striving against
his God ; he hath drawn the sword against hi* God ;
•then how shall he escape the punishment any more
.than the Jews, who persecuted me in the Body ?
and he is persecuting me in the Spirit. Now let this
Chapter be marked deep : these word?were spoken
to the king who was making martyrs of the mother
and her children. And I now tell thee, he would
'make worse martyrs of thee and thy believers, were
Vou to follow' his pernicious doctrine j for though
. Diglt’izetf'by OOQ
8 0 6 TKUB EXPLANATIONS OP TffiE BIBLE.
bis power is.not like the king’s, yet his malice is
stirred up by the devil, as the king’s malice was
against the mother and her children. Now thou
knowest in thy own mind how greatly thou wast
stumbled to find the book in the Apocrypha, which
thou judgest the least of all the prophecies, and the
least spiritual in the Bible; but I now tell thee, there
is not a place in the Bible that more clearly points out
the destruction such men would bring upon believers
than that Chapter of the destruction of the mother asd
her sons.
SCRIFTURB3 BROUGHT AGAIHST 'GARRETT. 30$
My prophets feltthe blow ;
And wnen upon this earth I came,
My followers, you do know,
Receiv’d the same when here loathe—
a
The sons were put to death;
My Mother she receiv’d the shame—
Know what the Scripture saitb;
The sword appear’d against lier there,
And so wenbthrough her soul;
The children did-4heir sufferings share—
You see her children all,
Where they did come in Spirit strong,
Ancf visited by me ;
Their lives they wish’d not to prolong,
Their fatal eudyou see,
W hat did appear, her children here,
My followers they were cast;
And let the martyrs to appear,
How all alike were plac'd.
So thus to men it plain is seen,
Throughout the Bible stands—
Now think upon thy simple dream, \
And thou may’st here command,
Thy throat they’d cut—though thou'st not.wrpte
The dream that did appear:
But Satan’s arts, 1 say, are deep,
He’ll try to cut it here,
IJow from thy folly I'll begip:
Thou shudder’st at thy dream, *
And thought from Satan it' was seen,
Bui now l tell thee plain,
It was to shew what men would do, >
If thou wastin their power,
For now to ages back HI come :
And this isjust the same—
T * , .1 * / , 1 .V _ ____
Digitized by Google
' I brought that dreamufito thy ,vi$w*r-
And now discern thehouF ,f
c .
When thou the honk hast reafci it throughj
For Satan’s arts were th^re,
Axrd as an angel he’d pursu^. } ,
To make the truth appear. f
. ■ Cnuld he go on in power by men
Thy’destiny thou would’st see;
I tell thee, perfect like thy dream* •
Therefore I order d thee ;
- To take the book then in thifce
My Bible open here, t . ,
And it was put by my comWarid,
* ’Twas I that guided there, ' ’
That thou may’st see the destiny,’
The way thy foes do break;
They try to cut the throat of theO,
And make thy children weep.
Like butchers here, I said before.
The shepherds they were come,
And like the sheep for slaughter here
My Flock they’re leading on.
So this is plain, if you discern
How they do both appear;
But 1shall keep thee from all harm-**
Mark how it ended here:
As from the dream I shall explain f
Thou said’st thou should’st not dier;
No ; ’tis the malice here of men,
That wish thee so to lie j -
' But now too late is every fate
To act as heretofore— # ’
Thy othei Chapter it is great, *
And mark whaf§ spoken there:
T he eagle see, I now tell thee,
In every age hath been ;
For Satan strong hath work’d that way,
Where he man’s hearts hath seen; "
If any call from heaven did fell, ,
A warning from the Lord,
The eagle strong in man would com*
To mock the every word.
- But now at last the die is cast, ^
I’ll pluck his feathers here ; -v
For his deceit hath been too great,
. In man he doth appear:
No truth or judgment is in man—
* ’
I ask when they judg’d right ?
*Tis but believers that can stand _
. When all is brought to light.
I know the meek how he doth seek
Always for to destroy ; ;
There is no peace men can possess
W hile Satan doth enjoy,
t to SfKtIE BEFXASrATlONS^ OP W f e &1BLE
liF
^
Digitized by Google
For to-confound in every sound.
Men’s tongues be fills with lies £
And so like him they do goon f *
With arts and with disguise, ’
Fortosbew dear their feathers here^
In Satan they do shine.
But let them know the end is near:
For now I’ve told my mind ;
The timet at hand, he cannot stand
To hurt the Earth much more;
But white he is support'd by Man,
His feathers will appear
In them to shine now for a time,
His malice will bo high
W here he can come and dwell in men ;
But you may all defy,
If you stand out, not lull of doubts
uut let your faith be strong,
His feathers 1shall pluck them out;
For men with him do join,
Then them I’ll nlucfc, till to the root
His cloaths-I’ll take away.
So let the mockers now stand mute,
My judgments they will see
To Hasten on, ( tell them, strong;
For I’ll deliver here
From all the violence of such men.
That do this way appear.
Judgments shall come; and mercies strong
To thosethat her believe,
sAnd see what hock she builds upon,
I will not one deceive.
J4ow mark the head how all was laid :
And'will they say ’tis thine ?
t T fy? fww'thaip wisdom must be dead,*
And thou must all outshine, r
Tothave thy dream near at the time,
And .so to place the whole >
To shew he a cut the throat of thinc^ .. •*»:
And riiake thy children fa!L ‘
1 And then the last iee how ’tis cast, '
Thy Prophecies before : ' r •*
Thy enemies thpy so would burst ’ , .
By Satan’s malice here ;
But know the end by thee is penn’d, *
He shall opt now destroy ;
I’ve said that I shall stand thy friend,
Atid will mankind enjoy ; r
That wish for ?
4E, my kingdom set,
r They shall not wish in vain ; <
The Wottfans Fall I’ve said I’ll free—
. 1 made her to be jpine.
W hen at the last jibe whole, is cast, .
1 Then*Sfttanhe must fai|:
CAtmCftrBO'G&VKETY’AMB A tb UltBXLlBVXKS.^U
Digitized by Google .
The eagle s feathers now do bunt,
but I shall pluck them a ll; ,
His claws appear, 1tell thee here.
For he dptn work in. man,: .■ ./
And know I’ve told thee them l'll tear, 1
. Ana off the whole shall come*
So now see plain, ye sons of men.
The way this did appear.:
1 Order d thee to blind thine eye#, . ; ?
That all might see itcksuv *
Promiscuously came ail from M£, /_
’Twas I did guide thy hand.—
And now the Chapter let them see
Wherein thy eyes did stand ;
Then surely men must see it plain, t
\
Tlie visions must appear;
And from the mockers I'll maintain .1
That the last times are here;,
And gone from me they surely be.
My Spirit do hot know
They have no faith for to build pp
That I shall come below
In Spirit strong to dwell with man,
My Bible do not see,
Though they pretend to build thereon, '
But nothing know of me.”
1
- T
Here ends.Wednesday night,'Jan. 3#.
012 : .9RVt EXPLANATIONS 0* TtfK BZBX&
Thursday morning.
f am compelled to write the dream that I shudder­
ed to mention. On the Tuesd^ pight,.-ffre 29th, I
dreamt a man had cut my throat,* and'put me in an
elegant coffin; 'arid' carried rpe'ftd tbe^butchers to
bury m e; but ^sf t was not} quite.-deadv .1 thought
Some of my friends put me into a bedj .and I began
to recover very fast, and, said. I should riot die, but
live. This is,: the >
dream that is alluded to in the
communication,, frotri /tfie'Chapter .where I found
Garrett’s book. Last nightTdreamt two men were
going to throw1!^ down a ,pi^ti^i6er which made
me cry out aloud Irimy slejejj^aha Townley waked
me. After that, in the morning^ I had# beautiful
dream of 8M ing''hbrsda}d.,th^Ji^^d' I thought
many saw them as well as me.
Digitized by Google
on b a v i d ’s embassy in su e t e d by h a n u n . 313
' I was this morning ordered to open fny Bilde,
which was in 1 Maccabees vi. the hitUr part ofrer, 8
*r-He laid him down upon his bed and fell sick for
grief, because it had not befallen him as he looked
for.
THE ANSWER OF THE LORD.
“ Now, Joanna, I shallanswer thee. Thou judgest
of this chaptera, the former, there could be nothing
to the purpose init; but I now tell thee, no more
than it happened to the king as he looked for, no
more shall ithappen to thy enemies asthey look for ;
for I shall be a strong tower and wall of defence
round abotit thee to destroy thy enemies. Now re-,
member thy dream, and how thou wast waked out
of it : and now I tell thee, asTownley awaked thee,
when thou criedst aloud, and deliveied thee from
thy fears in thy sleep, andpereeiverht all to he but
adream, so, I tell thee, the malice of men si nil be
no more than a dreamunto thee : for as thou dreain-
edst afterwardsthe horses were placed in tlie air, like
visions, and clouds before thee, so shall my Power
and my Spiritdefendthee. And now I shall call to.
thy remembrance the night thou calledst for the
wine, that thou mightest drink deep in my Spirit,
and be cleansed fromall sin, and by the bread be
strengthened by me ; know, inthemorning I called
thee aloud, as Townley ca'led thee to awake thee
from dangers ; a .d so shall my callingbeuiitothee;
so fearnot them that rise up against thee ; for I am
thy God, and will bewith thee. Aid now go to the
other chapter that he mentioned. 2 Samuel x. 5. from
which he speaks thus— “ And ifthis abominable tribe
“ had staid quietly at Jercho, till their beards were
“.grown, the world had never been thus filled with
“ their horrid blasphemies.”—Now,- Joanna, I shall
answer thee from the judgment thou hast dra\n of
thyself; but do not boastthou art wiser than others.
................. R r
Digitized by Google
314 TRUK EXPLANATIONS OF THE BIBLE.
It was I that placed that wisdom in thee, to shew it'
was the ingratitude * and the unbelief of the children
of Ammon, that brought- that disgrace upon the
children of Israel. Now let them weigh deep what
kindness David had in his heart to do unto Hanun
the king of the children of Ammon. He thought
to have shewed kindness to the children of Ammon;
but now mark their ungrateful return. David'sent
to comfort them by his servants, and the princes of
the children of Ammon said unto Hanun their
Lord, Thinkest thou that David doth honour’thy fa*
ther, that he hath sent comforters unto thee ? hath
he not rather sent his servants for spies to search out
the city and overthrow it ? Here, through their un­
belief, and wrong insinuation, they worked upon
Hanun to entreat David with ingratitude, un­
kindness, and shame, and confound th'erti for the
goodness of their king. Now this hath been in all
ages; through unbelief and wrong judgment the
people of God have been put to shame and confusion,
as David’s servants were; .but mark what became in
the end. , The children of Ammon where destroyed
for their ingratitude ; and now, I tell thee, it is com­
ing to the end, that uhbelief and ingratitude shall
meet with their just punishment, as the children of
Ammon did ; for now, like'David, 1 have thought
to do kindness to the sons of men, as David did to the
children of Ammon ; but if they go on wish ingra­
titude, to shame my servants, whom I have so sent
out to warn and invite them, as Hahun shamed the
children of Israel, they shall be destroyed as the
children of Ammon were. So let them all observe,
that if the children of Israel were shamed at first, the
children of Ammon were destroyed at last: and so
now I warn all men,' if my servants are shamed at
first, who believe in the fulfilment of my Bible, that I
am a God that will not- lie, they shall be destroyed at
last, that mock like the children of Ammon, to say
they are spies sent out by the Devil. So here he hath
1Digitized by Google
*HB CHILDREN 0 9 AMMON SET AS A TYPE. 31 ^
shewed thee the very text that must bring the ser­
mon, to shew how ingratitude, unbelief, and wrong
judgment bring on men’s destruction ; and how
ready they are when they have committed a fault, to'
add one crime unto another, till they have brought
the shame and guilt upon their own heads, that they
tried to bring oft the innocent. Thus did the child­
ren of Ammon do, and thus are thy enemies doing :
they are trying- to shame thee with lies, and calling
thy master a liar; but they shall find in the end thy
master is the God of Truth, whose heart is now like
David’s, to shew kindness to the sons of men ; but
they are like the children of Ammon wresting the
Truth, despising my Goodness, and trying to stir up
all they can against me, and putting my servants to
sham e; but they shall all find it in the end, I will
act like David, and turn my love to anger, to de­
stroy the ungrateful sons of men, who judge they*
‘are wiser than their maker ; that I made a promise ip
the beginning I never intend to fulfil: as the child­
ren of Ammon said by David, so have men said now
by me. Therefore they are drawing their pens like
swords against me, to stir up war against my people j
but they shall find a David here, that will destroy
them as David did ; for now I tell thee, they are
adding one sin upon another, first the sin of unbe­
lief by mockery, to shame my people who believe
m b the God of Truth; and now they are stirring up
. .war against them, as the children of Ammon did.
So from their fall, I tell you all,
Destruction fast shall come ;
And from that chapter now see all»
What unto them did come,
That first did blame and then did shame
The children that were true,
Because that David sent them out
His kindness for to shew.
So now the same, behold my name,
Like David 1have done;
And as you put my friends to shame
Your ruin shall come on.—
But I’ll end here and say no more.
This chapter let them see,
R r 2
Digitized by
» l6 TRtTE EXPLANATION* 01 TBE BIBLE.
The way the ending must appear*
The man hath mocked me*
NoW to another Chapter go,
That 1 shall here explain,
And from Isaiah I shall shew
What mis-maze is in Man.
Another Chapter quoted by Garrett is Isaiah
xxviii. 7— But they also have erred through wine,
and through strong drink are out of the way ; the
priest and the prophet have erred through strong
drink, they are swallowed up of wine, they are out
of the way through strong drink ; they err in vision,
they stumble in judgment, ' He further adds in his
book : “ 1trust that the Lord has brought me through
“ the Jordan of a spiritual judgment, and equipped
“ me with the sword of his Spirit, and put an irrecon-
~ccileable enmity between me and all such awful sur
*
■ perstition ; my soul, through rich grace shall pay
“ away ; yea mine eye shall not spare, till I have ex-
u posed to just contempt this abomination of desolar
tion, and as a watchman upon the walls of Zion, I
“ have given a faithful warning to all seeking souls.”
“ Now I shall answer thee from his words, where
he professes “ to give a faithful warning to all seek*
ing souls,” He professes himself a priest and a pro­
phet ; but he shall know he is th.e priest and prophet
_iner.tiomd in his text: he hath erred in the sense of
. visions, in the meaning of visions, and stumbled in
the judgment lie hath drawn of m e ; for I have nei­
ther called him, neither have I warned him to be as
a watchman, unless he would warn niy people, to
turn them from the evil of their ways, and warn
them of the visitation of the Lord ; but this visita­
tion he hath denied, this visitation lie hath mocked
and despised ; vet he hath set hinssclfup as a priest
and a prophet; then let him tremble at the follow ing
words, verse 14 of his own chapter^—Wherefore hear
the word of the Lord, ye scornful men, that rule
this people which is in Jerusalem. Because ye have
said, ye have made a covenant wjth death—as
Digitized by Google
DRIESTIM
AK
ETHEMSELVES FALSE PSOFHBTS. 817
though as dangers could not come unto you ; but ye
are promising life to those that trust in your lightness
and in your lies: but he shall know 1 have laid in
Zion for a foundation a Stone, a tried Stone, a pre­
cious Corner Stone, a sure Foundation, he that be-
lieveth shall not make haste.
Now I shall answer thee from this chapter. The
priests have made themselves the prophets, which
thou knowest from the letters of others, as well as
from his book ; for no man can say he knoweth my
mind .or will, what I intend to do upon the earth,
without he is visited by the Spirit of Prophecy
from me ; yet the priests profess to be prophets,
that they know my will and understand my Bible,
while they are mocking the true Spirit of Prophecy
that I have given. JNow let them answer what is
meant by the tried stone, the corner stone,
and the sure foundatio n in thy heart. Thou
answerest, that foundation is Christ. True is thy
judgment; but let it be knowm unto all men, that
foundation was laid in the Fall, and that foundation
•cannot be accomplished till the Promise is fulfilled.
It was a tried stone to the Jews, when I came in the
body; and it was a tried stoue to the Gentiles . and
a precious corner stone, a sure foundation for m a n ’s
r e d e m p t io n , unless they make agreement w,ith
hell,, to withstand the Promise that was made, that
Satan's head may not be bruised ; but what will
they do when judgment is laid to the line, and righ­
teousness to the plummet? The line was laid in the
beginning, for Satan’s head to be bruised, his power
destroyed, and the kingdoms of the earth to be­
come the kingdoms of the d iv ing G od. This is
the line through my Bible; but if men make lies
their refuge to deny all these promises, and agree
with the falsehood of Satan, to cover themselves
with him, they will find, when the overflowing'
scourge passes through, they will be trodden down
by i t ; therefore let them tremble at verse 22—Be
Digitized by Google
318 SSXnAHAffSif* dt f t i l t :
ye not mockers, lest your bands be made strong.
And let them answer who is the true prophet, from
the following lines: 1 have heard from the Lord
God of Hosts a consumption, even determined
Upon the whole earth. Now this prophecy is known
to thee,- that I have declared unto tbee; for thy
prophecies go to the ends of the earth, that I have
begun and will go on, till I have brought all men to
know the Lord: but Garrett says, he knows what
God is ; then he must know all my decrees, and
know more than the angels in heaven : for the atf-
gels know not the Lord to perfection, nor what h&
will do, to make -all his ways perfect before men
and devils, saints and angels. Then how can a man
boast he knows from the Bible what God is ? For i
tell him, he knows not what man is ; neither does
he know the deceitfulness of his own heart; though
he pretends to write as a priest and a prophet: and
let him know, from the chapter he mentioned, he
must profess to be a prophet, that hath heard all
my decrees, and determination upon the earth, or
he must allow himself to be the false prophet, the
false priest, that hath erred in the visions he hath
seen, and stumbled in the judgment he hath draws.
Let him weigh his chapter deep, and let all men
weigh it deep; for I tell thee that chapter stands
for the end. And now mark the following, chap. xxix.
p— Stay yourselves and wonder; cry ye out, and
cry : they are drunken, but not with wine; they stag­
ger, but not with strong drink. And the vision of
all is become unto you as the words of a book that
; is sealed. And so I tell thee are the prophecies and
the visions unto them that are hardened through
unbelief.
For now to all I thus do call.
The chapter that ia here
Foretells mankind their fatal fall.
Where unbelief appears.
The chapter he points, out Uf thee>
False prophets there are comfe
I Digitized by Google
And the false priests let them see,
, What is the end of them ;
But from the true they all must know.
That my decrees do hear,
I never shall give hp the blow
Till I have ended here.
So earth and hell they now may swell,,
And let their lies go on,
• But from the chapter let them see
What fatal end must come;
For line on line, behold the time^
What prophecies are penn'd,
And from the precept let them see
The way that all mutt bend.
For backward here do men appear.
And backward they go on ;
Back to the Jews, hear ye the
For backward so they’re come.
So backward all will see their fall.
That stand in unbelief:
The tried stone, 1 tell you all.
Must end your every grief
T hat do believe I’ll not deceive^
The sure foundation’s here;
I am the first, 1 am the lasl^
I’ll make my Bible clear;
My wondrous council all shall
My working shall come round.
Till I’ve destroy'd the enemy,
And man shall now be crown’d
W ith peace on earth, the Scripturetaifh^
That in me do believe,
I am a God that's just and true,
And will not man deceive.
But unbelief will briug on grief
To those that mock mv word:
The vision’s like a sealed book 1
To those that know not God.
Therefore with wonder they may cry,
What false prophets are here,
That gave my Bible so the lie,
W hat priests do appear >
I said before I'll make it clear
The ending so would come;
But one good Shepherd men would bear-*
Now mark the words in John."
FALSE PROPHETS FALL BY THE TBIED STONF, 3 l f
$eeJ»hn, chapter x. 11—I am the good Shepherd:
The good Shepherd gave his life for the sheep. Ver.
12— But he that is an hireling, and not the Shep­
herd, whose own the sheep are not, sceth the wolf
coming, and leaveth the sheep and fieeth: and the
•wolf c a ttish them, and scattoreth the sheep.
Digitized by Google
-3 2 0 , TRUE EXPLANATIONS Of THE BIBLE,
THE ANSWER OF THE LORD.
“ Now I. tell thee, this chapter alludes to my
coming in the Spirit, when I come to call my sheep
and tliey shall know my voice j but what other
Shepherd did I say, as man, they should depend
upon when I compared them to hirelings ? and he .
is a hireling, that denieth the visitation of my Spi­
rit. Now come to the chapter he told thee of in
E zekiel: chapter xiii. 7, 8— Have ye not seen a
vain vision, nave ye not spoken a lying divination,
whereas ye say, the Lord saith i t ; albeit, I have not
spoken ? Now let them mark -verse 3*—Thus saith
the Lord. God woe unto the foolish prophets, that
follow their own spirit, and have seen nothing!
Now from the chapter he' mentions to thee, as be-
-ng brought against thee, is entirely against him­
self ; for he set himself up as a prophet, following
his own spirit and having seen nothing.- Then let
it be known unto all men, the word of the Lord
came unto the prophet Ezrkiel, to prophesy against
these prophets that prophesied out of their own
hearts : and out of their own hearts have all the
priests prophesied that prophesy against thee; and
they are seducing my people with lies, saying,
peace, and there is no peace : they are Building up
walls, and daubing them with untempered mortar.
Now let them see that chapter deep, what destruc­
tion these prophets must bring upon mankind, that
prophesy'out of their own hearts, who .are like the
foxes in the desert; and like the foxes they are de­
stroying my sheep, crying peace: but I ask them
what peace ? Now let them mark verse 22—Be­
cause with lies ye have made the heart of the righteous
sad, whom I have not made sad; and strengthened
the hands of the wicked, that he should not turn
from his wicked way. Now I shall answer thee front
this chapter: Let the prophets fear_and tremble,
that prophesy out of their own hearts, and have seen
Digitized by Google
!
effects of trusting to False prophets.. $2i
nothing, to deceive my people with their lightness
and their lies. Now see how much this is in the
hearts of the ministers; I have threatened with
judgments, and judgments have come ; 1 have
threatened with scarcity and dearth, and.the land
hath felt it ; 1 have threatened to punish with the war
and the sword, and it is still over your land. Yet
seeing all these things before them, they are pro­
phesying peace to my people, telling them ’tis a
vain vision, and a lying divination, all they have
seen and h ea rd fo r they are telling the people,
from their own hearts, they are the prophets to
whom you are to trust: but how fatal will be their ^
end, when they see all the judgments pronounced in
that chapter fall upon their own heads, for prophe­
sying out of their own hearts i This was the de­
struction of the Jews j they prophesied out of their
pwn hearts against the true prophets that I had sent
unto them, and so they deceived the people by
promising them peace, that nothing should happen
to them, when I had threatened to destroy them.
Now as I have told thee, in all ages of the world
me.n have been alike, and that likeness will conti­
nue, as long as Satan’s power reigns ; and perfectly as
the false prophets are mentioned in that chapter,
that they were then, perfectly so they are now ; but
I now tell thee, their end will be more fatal; be -
cause they have my Bible to see what unbelief
brought upon man, and how much it is men -
tioned of the false prophets, prophesying agaimt
the true ones. Therefore this last presumption will
be more fatal to man than all the former; for where
is the-man can now come before thee, and say thou
hast prophesied lies in my Name ? Have not all
things been foretold, from 1792 to this day, that
have already taken place ? And now mark how
many men thou hast heard affirm they were called of
God. to preach the Gospel, whose sinful lives have
made thee tremble : as thou hast often said, to do
$ s
Digitized by Google
the Devil’s drudgery in Christas livery: .and now'I
tell thee, your land is full of these preachers.
Therefore he pointed to thee the very chapter that
sheweth his likeness, and the likeness of others.
Know, the true prophet was but one, the false
prophets were many; and many false prophets are
gone out in your land, saying, the Lord sent them
to preach the Gospel, when I have never sent them
nor commanded them ; but out of their own hearts
are they gone, and budding up walls, daubing them
with untempered mortar, that is not tempered with
my true word, nor with the G ospel; for know it is
written, the good Shepherd must appear, before
the redemption of man takes place, or the fulfilment
©f the Bible is accomplished ; but .how is the good
Shepherd to appear ? or how is the Lord to be re-
vealed ? .or how is the wicked one to be revealed ?
W ill they say, by those prophets or priests that are
gone out into the world, and saying, Lo, here is Christ
revealed to me j I am sent put to preach the Gospel,
by the sword of his Spirit; and another crying out
the same, I am sent out by h is Sp ir it to preach
the Gospel a different way ? For this is known
unto thee and'to all men, it has been affirmed by
the different preachers, that thou hast heard preach­
ing one against the other, and yet both say they are
called of God; then what untempered mortar is
their preaching my word, to say they are called of
me to preach my word when they cannot join to-
So now see all, the wall must fall
That's so built up by man:
Untemper’d mortar is their call.
The prophets false are gone ;
Throughout your land they now do stand.
Affirm they are sent by m e;
But from their doctrine thou <k>st know
. They no ways can agree \
Then surely1here they must appear
False prophets in your land;
Untemper’d mortar, ail see clear*
Togethercannot stand.
3*22 'TRUE EXPLANATIONS OP THE BIBLE.
Digitized by Google
They mock the warning of the Lord#
They wrest my every word, *
And what is left upon record
Hath ne’er to them occurr’d, .
That they are come the prophets wrong.
To say they are sent by m e;
Untemper d mortar doth go on,
As they do disagree.
So now sec clear mv Bible here
The way that it doth stand ;
Untemper’d mortar doth appear,
False prophets they are come,
To tell mankind that they are sent
To preach the word for me,
And on their words you must depend
If saved you will be;
To trust to man is all their plan;
But how will they appear,
When the good Shepherd he doth come
And ask them when and where
That I did call, as things do fall
Bo different from my word ?
T o say that they are prophets all,
That way they mock their Lord;
Yet they contend that ’tis from men
You every thing must know;
They mock the judgments I have sent,
But can they stop the blow ?
I tell thee, No; it is not so;
They have not stopt the past,
And fast they’ll see the scourge to go,
They’ll never stop the last,
But bring it on, proud ignorant meC^
That say, they know the Lord l
And with their Maker do contend,
As I before have said,
x Bo now comes on tha« chapter strong—
Let men the chapter see,
' Then they must know the prophets wrong
The priests so musfrbe;
' And down they’ll fall, I tell thee, all
When it goes through the land:
T he overflowing scourge is near,
I ask them how they’ll stand?
When all begin to tumble down
Their mortar will not do:
The sheep they murder with their sound ; •
- Like foxes, all shall know,
They do appear to mock men here,
To say, they are call’d by heaven ; -
Then all these things they’d known before^
And warning would have given.—
But I'll end here and say no more;
The chapter let them see.
Another chapter must appear,
Tfiet he did name of thett
^ ^Di^lzed by G O O ^ C
FALL OP FALSE PBOPHETS AND MOCKERS. 32$
Or ofhimself5hispride did swell
Like Satan's at the first;
But down, I tell him, he will fall
And on the floor be cast.”
$24 tfctfE EXPLANATIONS OF THE BIBLE.
See Ezekiel xu. 28. (quoted by Garrett)—Thus
saith the Lord ; there shall none of my words be
prolonged any more. Now mark his words : But
he says, ‘‘ This wretch and all.her fraternity pre­
tend to have power to fix a time, and then to pro­
long it at their pleasure! poor, devil’s fun! they
might have escaped many sneers, if they had only
fixed the time of the fulfilment of their prophecies
a hundred years to come.”
“ Now I shall answer his words. Had the art
and deceit been in thee, to pretend thyself a prophet
when thou wast none, thy art and deceit would
have been like his, to have fixed to a time that no
, one could tell whether it was true or false, to mock
thee till thou wast no more. This is the art of Sa­
tan, and this is the art of a man that is lifted up by
him ; but let all'men know, it was never the art of
thee, thou dealest faithfully with God and man: for
I told rhee ajl was at hand, and that aHwas at hand
thou toldesr the public. So if it had not come on
the devil could have had no fun with thee, if he
had come in my name go prophesy; for Satan does
not know with what I mean to visit the nations, nor
what I .intend to- do upon stlie earth. So had thy
visitation heen from the devil, to cast thee up high
by his prophecies, he would soon have brought thee
down to the floor again, as the fall of Garrett will
be. And know what I told thee by the man’s
prayer, that mocked Carpenter’s praying to the Lord,
as lie called m e the devil, so Garrett hath mocked
the Spirit that leads thee and called mb the devil;
but every soul that mocks thee shall know thy Pro­
phecies come from the God of Truth ; whether
they live to see the fulfilment or not, Satan will be
ready go Jell them, after he hath cast them up og
Digitized by Google
•N T fiB WORDS OP T H E .LORD BEING PROLONGED. 3 2 5
high by swelling their pride, that he hath brought
them down to the pit with him, by working in their
hearts to persecute the Spirit of the Lord, and do­
ing despite where I have sent it : for let it be
• known, from my Gospel, he that offendeth these to
whom my Spirit is sent offendeth me ; but these
offences must come to fulfil my Gospel. And now
I shall come to the purport of his chapter: and
know I have told thee, he handles the word of God
deceitfully, to blind the eyes of the ignorant, and to ■
deceive the simple. Can a man dare to preach my
Gospel, and say he is furnished with rich grace,
that doth not understand what he reads ? W ill he
dare to say none of my words are prolonged ? Then
• the Bible must be fulfilled when John wrote the Re­
velation, for know what is writtenin the last chap­
ter— And he saith unto me, seal not the sayings of
the prophecy of this book, for the time is at hand.
Then if it was not prolonged, that time that was at
.hand must be immediately, and the Spirit and the
Bride must then appear to bring the final end to
till; but how are men taking from the Scriptures !
how are they adding to the Scriptures to bring on
their own destruction* and take their names out of
the Book of Life, that they may have no share nor
lot in the matter! Now write verse 21 of the
chapter he mentioned, what the Lord said unto the
prophet— Son of man, what is that proverb that ye
. have in the land of Israel, saying, .the days are pro-
. longed, and every vision faileth? Tell them therefore,
thus saith the Lord G od; I will make this proverb to
cease. Now I tell thee, like the present age so was
the past, because judgments are not speedily exe­
cuted the hearts of the sons of men are set to do
evil. But shall I he a God to destroy and devour at
. once ? Then to what use is my sending prophets
to warn them and threaten them, if I go out irh-
• mediately to destroy them, without giving time to
; try them, whether they will hear or whether they
Digitized by Google
will forbear, whether they will repent, or whether
they will be hardened ? It is to try them that I warn
before I strike; and this warning had come to the
prophet. Now mark what I -ordered him to do, in
verses 5, 6— Dig tboa through the wall in their sight,
and carry out thereby. In thek sight shalt thou bear
it upon thy shoulders, and carry it forth in the twi­
light : thou shalt cover thy face, that thou see not
the ground : for I have set thee for a sign unto the
house of Israel. Verse 11— Ssay, I am your Sign:
like as I have done, so shall it be done unto them:
they shall remove and go into captivity. Verse is
— And they shall know that I am the, Lord, when I
shall scatter them among the nations. These, were
the prophecies given to the prophet, telling, what
judgments should bcfal them for their disobedience
and rebellion; and he was a vision as a sign unto
them ; but seeing these judgments not immediately
executed, northese dangers come upon them, they
began to mock the prophet, as they now .are mock­
ing thee, that the fatal judgments, mentioned to the
unbelievers and the mockers, that shall come upon
them, are not fulfilled; and the proverb is now
in your land, as it was with the rebellious house of
Israel, the days are prolonged, and the fatal judg­
ments are. not come. Thus they provoked me to
anger in the days of old, and mocked my warning,
because I gave them space to repent, and they re­
pented not,, but hardened thek hearts the more;
therefore I said, my word should no more be pro­
longed, because they had provoked me to anger,
to bring on their destruction; for they had hardened
their hearts through unbelief. And now I tell thee,
it is the same : these very men that profess they are
as prophets called of m e , to go out with the sword
of my Spirit, they have drawn the. sword against
m e, to prophesy out of their own hearts against
the prophet whom I have called; they have setup
their own wisdom and their own invention against
$26 TRUE EXPLANATION* 0? THE BIBLB.
Digitized by Google
THE MOCKERY OP TYPES SET IN THE PROPHBTS 3^7 .
my Spirit; and now they are ready to say, like the
Jews of old, where are the threatenings fulfilled ?
are they not prolonged ? mocking the visitation
as not being from the Lord. Here is the perfect
likeness of Jews and G entiles; and now they may
fear the perfect likeness of the fulfilment! and
know how they have mocked thee of the Mis-maze,
and thought no more of it as being a type to the
nation» of what Mis-maze and confusion they will
be in, when I bring upon the land all the judg­
ments I have threatened, than the rebellious bouse
o f Israel thought the type of Ezekiel’s digging
down the wall and carrying out the rubbish was a
type unto them, how they should be carried into
captivity. Now let these ignorant men, that mock
the Types and Shadows, I worked in thy heart to
do, answer me, why I should order the ‘prophet t o .
dig through the wall, and carry it out in their
sight, as a sign unto them ? Could I not have carried
them into captivity, withcut setting that sign by
the prophet ? And was I now to set the like sign,
would it not be as much 'mocked as it was by the-
Jews? I tell thee, Yes; and much more; then
how can he dare to say, that the free, sovereign and
unmerited and unsought-for Grace of God in his
soul, compared with that all-sufficient fund of di­
vine knowledge contained in the Bible, is sufficient
to inform him what God is ?- Now the very chapters
that he hath mentioned must come as a swift wit­
ness against h im ; for how can he mock my speak­
ing to thee, when thou wast cutting of paper and
making.a Mis-maze, and see in the chapter he
pointed out, from the 3rd to the 16th ve?set what
I commanded the prophet to do, how I conversed
with him to set signs for the children of Israel ? Then
what knowledge can he have of his God ? or what
knowledge hath he of my word? But I now tell
thee, as the prophet was set for a sign before them,
by doing the things that I commanded hijn, so the
Digitized by Google
Mis-maze that I worked in thy heart to cut, shall
be an awful sign of what Mis-maze shall come upon-
men that mock the visitation of the Lord, despise
my invitation, and laugh at my threatenings; but
those whose eyes are like the*diamonds, that begin
to see the Pearl of great Price, and dig deep through
■faith to find it (that meaneth going on in their faith
nothing wavering,) they will-find it a Mis-maze of
joy that never entered into the heart of man, but
hath been locked up in the bosom of the Father,
concealed from men and angels, till the time of its
fulfilment. This is a Mis-maze unto all men—
828- TRUE EXPLANATIONS OP THE BIBLE.
Therefore I work’d in thee
That simple thing for to begin,.
That all mankind might see
My wondrous working unto man
A Mis-maze doth appear;
There's no one doth discern my plan,*
Although my Bibles clear,
To shew at last 1so shall burst,
When 1 have all went through.
I shew’d the prophets at the first.
What shadows they should do
To sijew to man how I should come—»
Ezekiel’s shadows see,
The way I bid him to go on—
And now I’ll answer thee:
Dig through the wall, I tell you all,
The wall stood then for man,
And from the rubbish now 1 call
To carry out to them,
When he digg’d through 1 told him so,
That carried out should be,
And he the sign, call all to mind,
How they their end should see.
So from the sign let all discern
The substance did appear,
And will you say you know your God,
And mock the signs are here ?
t , The sign to Israel was foretold,
Which they all mock’d at first,
Until their hearts with fear grew cold,
To see the sign to burst;
But through the wall, I tell you all,
It'never elided there,
Until l came in love-to man,
* , To have the wall appear.
But now within thou dost begi^
To ask, how this ca» be,
Digitized by Google
i
i
That I could come a wall to them,
That they dug through to see ?
A mystery here, thou canst not clear
Thy pondering thoughts within,
To ask, how I can make it clear ?
To reason I’ll begin :
I was the wall, 1 say, for all,
Whereby the end must stand ;
But when.unto the Jews I call’d,
Thou It say 'twas my command
To bid the prophet to dig through,
And so 1 told them all ;
For if their prophets they had known*
They’d seen from whence theircall i
That I was come a wall to m an;
But they would not believe,
And this before to me was known,
The wall did them deceive.—
But here thy pondering thoughts IsM j
I have not made it clear
* The way that I the wall can be,
My prophet dug through there,
That as a type and shadow stood,
I tell thee, of the end. >
The wall was me ; the substance see $
But how mark how’t did bend:
Thou knowest the Jews believ’d in M
fc# .
A Root that should appear;
A branch of David they should see#
•To bring their kingdom here $
That is, 1 Israel should restore,
They’d see a conquering king
That unto them there must appear,
And honour great to bring.
This they believ’d there would appear,
A GREAT DELIVERER come ; . *
And all my Bible shews them clear.
This end must come to them.
But when I came, it must be known, t
No grandeur they did see ;
B ut like a wall prepar’d to fall,
And so they digg’d through ME, ■
Until my d^aTh they had brought forth i
Then see the wall was gone ;
And they like rubbish .were cast out—
-
1 Their nearts to me were known.
Now from the wall, I tell you all,
Though’tis a mark to man,
But from the building, see, to all
By what it there does stand:
From brick or straw, you all must know#*
Or stone, it must be laid;
And ’tis by man the wall must Stand-­
By shadows 1 have said:
Tt
0*1 EZfeRIEL DIGGING THROUGH TH E WALL. 329
Digitized by Google
To build it first by man is plac’d ; .
„ But this thou dost not see, .
v There is no way it can be cast, *
v If that the wall is me.
Then how can man the builder come*
• To build upon his G ob ? . ,
This thing in man it may be done—
But mark what here is said:
- Man was the builder o f the wall,
A shadow plac’d of me ;
But yet the substance known to all,
Look deep and you may see.
The wall by man first plac'd his plans,
I tell you, in the F all; v
That is the way, to all Isay,
That I became the wall;
As on me first the blame was cast,
. And so the blame went on;
- Yet they expected at the last
Their ransom it would come;
T hat their redemption they should sec, ,
According to my Word,
forget the other prophecy,
That I must shed my blood,
And first to fall, 1 tell them all—
Then now the wall you see ;
' The prophet digged there the hole* *
To shew my death must-be,
I tell them first, ere I do burst
T o be a wall for man, ,
• And make the Serpent lick the dust, 4
And have no power to come
Within the wall, I tell you all, .
When 1 have made an end; •
But as he carried then through all,
A mystery deep to man,
W hat be diijg’d out, can you now doubt.
To carry m their sight, .
A mystery no man can find out,
Till I bring all to light ?
My blood was shed, be not misled,
That I then gave for all;
, But as the Jews were so misled, -
They perish’d when I fell:
^ T hat is, my deatu was then brought forth,
But they’d not trust in me,
And so, Isay, they were dispers’d*-*
The lfist error, now see,
Did then appear worse than before,
But now the wail you see:
My open sibE must so appear
Just like the hole to be,
That he digg’d through, theyall sbaUknov,
That Type, stands deep for Man,
330 T ^U l EXPLANATIONS OP THE BIBLE*
Digitized by Google
•N GAKKSTt’
s M1STAKS IK HIS 4C0TA.TI0R. 331
But now the G cntilth like the Jews,
Must to destruction come.
If they maintain that now again—
“ iVc'il dig the wall onfe more."
Then I do tell them in the end
Their ruin must appear:
For on the Jews the stone did fall,
That they digg’d out at first j
But if you now dig down the wall,
Upon vowr heads it must burst.
60 no\y in me your building see,
And let your faith be good $
Or else your ruin you will see $
—
Like rubbish I allude
The faith of man, where it is Wrong,
And wrong the Jews* was plac'd \
But to the Gentiles now I’ll come.
To shew the end at last
So I’ll end here and say no more,
But let the Gentiles see
What from the Jews they have to fear—
And know the wall is me :
A Type to Man the wall doth stand.
As 1 have s^id at first;
And by the unbelief of Man
The Jews were surely cast.**
Another quotation from Garrett—AU visions ami
prophecy necessary to instruct the people of God are
sealed up in Christ. D aniel xi. 24. now put down
•verse 23— After the league made with him he shall
work deceitfully: for he shall come up, and shall be­
come strong with a small people. Ver. 24-—He shall
entfer peaceably even upon the fattest places.
' “ Now thou hast read the chapter through, quot­
ed in his book, and judgechit impossible that any
man could be so void of reason, ta allude that vile
person, which is mentioned in the chapter, and
comes forward in the text, which is verse 24. that
he hath mentioned, alluding to Christ; thus think­
ing it impossible that any man could be so blind, or
full of blasphemy, made thee turn to Chap. ix. judg­
ing the /m ight be placed wrong by the printer ; and
in verse 24 thou hast found t^e prophecies of Christ
mentioned, which thou judgest is what he meant.
Now I tell thee, as great as the mistake was tradi
of the chapter, so great is his mistake to judge thou
Digitized by Google
art led by any spirit, but-the Spirit of the living
G od. By his' mistake he hath placed the Spirit of
Christ, in the fulfilment of his mission, to be the
vile person, as he quoted the xi. Chapter instead of
the ix, perfectly so is his mistake; for should it
stand for the chapter mentioned, as he hath putin
his book, he must make me the vile and deceitful
person. And now I tell thee, this he hath made me
throughout his book concerning thee ; for there is
not a greater mistake of the chapter than there is of
the judgment he hath drawfi of thee, and of the
Spirit that directs thee. Now come to his words : he
saith “ a woman who beyond all doubt is one of the
“ vilest imposters that ever tainted with infectious
“ breath the wholesome air : But I have not sent them
‘‘saiththe Lord; yet they,prophesy a lie in my name;”
therefore he adds, ‘‘Joanna is a false prophet,” in page
Q
. of his book. In page 5 he Saith, “ she saith the
“ Lord talks to her, and she remembers it all; but
the being that she calls the Lord, any man that
“ knows the truth would call.a liar ; for Jehovah is
, a God of truth ; but this being that talks to Jo-
“ anna persuades her that she is without sin.” These
are the words spoken by Garrett; and from the last
observation I shall answer for myself. If he hath
not made a mistake in the word, as he did in the
chapter, to say one thing and mean another; as I
cannot suppose any man so void of reason, to quote
Daniel xi. 24. to allude to Christ, therefore I judge
he hath made a mistake, mentioning the xi and
meaning the ix ; so he must have made the same
mistake by me ; meant that I was a sinner, instead of
saying I*was without sin ; as it is said in my writings,
when I was pleading my own unworthiness to be
called to so great a calling, I was answered by the
Spirit.that leads me— •
“ I know tliy life what it hath been,
Like Adam’s seed tainted with sin ;
But brinij Me now the man that's free,
J say, fiorn sin, I ’ll answer thee.” ,
832 "TRUE EXPLANATIONS Of ;TH$ IIE L I. : '
Digitized by Google
g a r r e t t ’s e r r o r s p a s t e d f r o m h is l i e s . 333
But this I knew was impossible to plead for any
man. Now if hb hath not made a mistake, he must
be an abominable liar; as I can prove him in many
places, where he ■hath mentioned me, that he is a
wilful liar, as though he came from his father the
devil; for he hath affirmed many things in his book,
saying I said them, that never once entered into my
thoughts ; nay he hath boldly and erroneously as­
serted to the world the following words: “ this
also (the similitude of the barren woman,) Joanna
applies to herself literally, and declares that Jesus
Christ is to leave his throne in heaven, and to be
carnally married to her.” Now I must appeal to any
man's conscience, what they can think of a man,
that can so boldly and publicly sign his name to such
an abominable lie ? when in all my writings it is so
clearly explained of the Marriage Qf the Lamb, as to
the shadow with one and the substance to all, means
the heart entirely given up to Christ, for God to be
all in all. Therefore a man that can so erroneously
turn the truth into a lie, what a preacher must he be,
but the false prophet and false priest that are men­
tioned in the chapters he quoted ? And bow abomi­
nable are His falsehoods, to say I am an impostor ?
■
Doth he judge me another such as himself? or doth
he know what an impostor is ? An impostor is a liar
and a deceiver ; but I can call heaven and earth to
witness that I have not acted deceitfully towards God
or man in my prophecies. I judge of the Spirit by
the truth ; and the truth hath followed my prophe­
cies from 1792 to this day; and I faithfully put the
letters in the hands of the ministers, foretelling the
events of years before they took place. Had they
not come true the ministers would have detected
me ; then how dare a man presumptuously to say the
spirit that leads me is a liar ? The book of my Trial
wili clear my innocence of my upright dealing to­
wards man. Another abominable lie that he hath
put in print in page 4 of his book, he says, “ when
‘‘ the Lord first began to reveal himself to her, as
Digitized by Google
“ she calls it, she informs us she was troubled with
“ wandering thoughts, consequently she cut a num-
“ ber of pieces of paper into the shape of diamonds,
**and doubled them up.” Here is a most erroneous
lie ; for such a thought never entered in my head.
When the Lord first visited me in 1792, tears and
prayers were then my private companions, fearing I
might be led by a wrong spirit, as every thing ap.
peared unlikely, that was revealed unto me at that
time, to take place, as all seemed flourishing in our
land ; and I saw the truth of my Prophecies hasten
on from 1793 to 1800, before I published^ them to
the world, that I might not impose upori any one,
to publish prophecies, till I was clear from the truth
that had followed, they came from the God of truth:
and that I believe these false prophets, that prophesy
out of their own hearts, and out of their own spirits,
nothing but deceit they will find to their sorrow,
while believers that are longing for the coming of
their Lord will find it true to their everlasting joy.
As to my cutting of paper it never .entered my head
rill 1804, that I was ordered to throw down my pen,
THE ANSWER QF,THE LORP,
u Now, Joanna, say no further,
I for thee shall answer here:
Wrong as he hath nam'd the chapter
Full as wrong his judgments are*
To say that Satan leads thee on,
Or any spiHt vile*
For to the chapter I shall come,
And shew how he is foil'd: ^
Whatever chapter in his head
He had before his view,
T is from the chapter I shall plead*
And all shall find it true/
To name me there 1 must appear
A vile person to he,
And perfect so he 'hath nam'd me here,
Tire judgment drawn of thee:
He saith the spirit leads thee oif:
A liar must appear $
JIe‘11 find hisjudgment to be wrong.
And full as much to err /
Ac in the chapter he hath nam d—
* .
Let his mistake appear * .
9 3 4 TRITE EXPLANATIONS 09 THE BIBLE.
Digitized by Google
Fdr I shall put him sure to shame,
And shew how men do err.
As he began I say ofmen,
They place the Spirit wrong,
As from the chapter this is seen,
I now to man shall come >
For all the same, I say, my name
They’ve surely plac’d it wrong $
And blasphemy in Man I see,
Against me now they’re come 5
And their mistake they'll find it great,
As in the chapter penn’d.
1 told thee, men were but deceit,
But I shall stand thy friend ;
They all shall see thou writ’st from me \
Thy heart and soul 1 know,
And unto heaven thou may’st appeal$
For I well know *tis true,
' Thy written hand would never stand
In print for to appear,
If I had not commanded thee.
And made the truth so clear.
That it was I who dwell on high
Direct thy every hand ;
But know tne words that I did say,
Satan would come in Man,
And so he’s come, 1 tell tbee, strong—
And now the chapter see :
-Vile as the Man is mention’d there,
. So vile is the heart of he ;
Against his Lord he’th drawn his sword,
And artfully goes on,
Thinking for to destroy my word, 1
I But his mistake will coine.
I tell you plain, you sons of men,
Like him youall mistake,
And for the Serpent do contend,
Though you discern it not.
Had he discern* d how he did warn*
To name the chapter there,
H e would have righted that mistake
It might not so appear;
So many men to me are seen, -
If they the right did know.
Then their mistakes would not go on
Such madness for to shew.
The chapter through 1bid thee read, >
That thou may’st see more plain
How in it there he was misled* 1
Though he did never mean
The thing to do, I well do know,
And thousands are the same; ..
*Tis by mistake men do go on,
Aap do not knowmy Nam^
• a b r e t t ’s m i s t a k e a t t p e OR t h e WORLD. 3 3 3
Digitized by G o o g l e
But now the chapter I shall name, *
To whom thou dost aliade -
Must be the chapter he did mean, .
As wrong the J then stood „ ' . ,. *
The other side, be not misled, ,
W ould brought it to the nine;
And now, I s’
ay,r’tis so by me—, . .
Thy writings,iye divine:,
From his mistake see how did break
The vile, person appear ;
But turn the I “
the other way*
The nine must now appear*
Wherein you see the words of M
E* , T }
What he don’t understand, " *
The wav Hi make ah end of sin, ,
And finish all for Man. .
But in my bosom ’twas seal’d up '
What in the end TH do ; ' *' .* '
Then let mens wisdom now to dr$p; ,
Can they pretend to shew
The mind of me ? it can never be, -
I tell thee, done by Man.
Wrong as the chapter he did place, .
So wrong his judgment came ;
Out of his mouth I’ll him condemn; -
As I have said before ; . .
For if in me it was seal’d up,
Can Man so bold appear,
* ", For they to say another way, .
This knowledge is in Man ?
No*, wrong as he didput the J -
The judgment is or men,
To think my Bible they do know,
When ’tis seal’d up in me.
His wisdom doth him overthrow—j ~
. Men’s folly let them see. t. . *
Now mark the prayer that Daniel made,
. Before the answer came, '
How much he wish’d to know my mind -
If Israel I’d redeem.
. He for the people did intercede, ~+
. 1 tell thee, in his prayer j
But know the angel, it is said
The man that did appear, , ' ’
v Like Gabriel come, the vision place,. . .
Was shewn unto his view; *
The words were giyen for the end,
What I for them should do: •
But of the number of the weeks, "
_ No man can understand”
When from the time I first be^in, .
In my great work to man, . *
To finish siuT mustbegipk, ^ %
' The visiondoth appear *
336 TBUE EXPLANATIONS OP THE BIBLtf.,
Digitized by Google
Be MaEKS Otf tEXTS OUOfrED B t GARRETT. 99f
To tell them I shall make an end,
And righteousness bring here;
But ho* t could be no man could see*
T is all seal'd up from man *
And this is here allow’d by he
Then can they boldly stand
To say they know how things will go,
The way I’ll end the whole }
Now to another chapter come,
And see how it will fall.”
ttomans xiv. 17. quoted by Garrett—The king­
dom of God is not meat and drink, but righteous­
ness and peace. But I shall observe verst 11 —For
it is written* as l live* saith the Lord, every knee
shall bow to mb* and every tongue shall confess to
G od. This chapter I wish my readers to weigh deep ;
it is not reading of one verse you can draw your judg­
ment from; you must weigh the chapter through.
1 Corinthians iv. 20 quoted by Garrett—The king­
dom of God is not in word, but in power. Per. 15.
remarked by me—Though ye have ten thousand
instructed in Christ, yet have ye not many fathers;
for in Christ Jesus I have begotten you through the
Gospel. Hebrews xii. 28. quoted by Garrett. But
I must refer my readers from verse 25 to the end,
then they will see the meaning of verse 28. as it is
written in the 26th— Whose voice then shook the
earth : but now he hath promised, saying, yet once
more I shake not the earth only, but also heaven.
Thenmothing remaineth but the things that cannot
be shaken to receive a kingdom which cannot be
moved. Romans v. 2 i . quoted by Garrett.— That
as sin hath reigned unto death, even somii.ht grace
reign thr&ugh righteousness unto eternal life by Je­
sus Christ our Lord. Here he adds, the subjects
of this kingdom are principally now among the
Gentiles, who under the Law were set forth by the
similitude of a barren woman, Isaiah liv. I. .Now J
must refer my readers from verse 13 to the end% as
Garrett has made out this chapter fulfilled by the
Digitized by G o o g l e
\
Gospel, when Christ called in the Gentiles : now it
is said, in verse 13— And all thy children shall be
taught of the Lord ; and great shall be the peace of
thy children. This is promised to the barren womb
that never bore. Now as I once understood the
chapter the same, that it was fulfilled in that man­
ner, before it was explained to me, I will not con­
demn his judgment here ; but when the enquiry was
put to me, by the Spirit, to know if all the Gen­
tiles were taught of the Lord, and when this great
peace was to them, I was struck silent, as I consider­
ed amongst the Gentiles in past ages, as well as the
present, sin had abounded with a high hand, and the
Gospel wrested by the different opinions of mankind,
which hath brought in many religions, and opinions;
so that the past ages as well as the present seem more
to be taught of man, than of the Lord; and when
I reflect on the persecution of the martyrs, and what
they suffered in their days, and the persecution I have
read of in other ages, I cannot see this great peace
was ever yet established in any past ages ; and I am
certain it is far from being established in the present:
for the preachers of the Gospel themselves seem at
war-in their spiiits one against another, and every
man’s way seems clean in his own eyes : and Garrett
_himself hath condemned all religions but his own ;
-and other religions have condemned his to come
from the bottomless pit, for making God the author
of every cruelty, to ordain one part of the world
'must go to hell, if they live ever such just and up-
-right lives; on the other hand, there is a set of peo­
ple, they say, are ordained to go to heaven, if they
:areas wicked as the devil can make them. O f this
Garrett boasts : .but I may say, my soul come not
-thou ■into their secrets l This convinceth me, the
truth of the chapter is not yet fulfilled: but the
mysteries I leave to the Lord, that were explained to
•me, some years past, and are in print.
358 TRUE EXPLANATIONS OP THE BIBLE.
Digitized by Google
THE ANSWER OF THE LORD.
tf Now, Joanna, I shall answer thee, as I said I
should answer thee again when thou hadst seen the
judgment that was drawn by man ; and the judg­
ment o f Garrett is the judgment of thousands. I
have told thee, the barren womb alluded to the Gen­
tiles, as I came from the house and lineage of David
to the Jews ; but did my coming then bring the re­
demption to the Jews ? though many of the Jews
were converted and became my Disciples, and went
through much tribulation for my sake, and were put
to death ; and so were the Gentiles brought into the
Gospel, that were a barren people before ; for which
reason the wisdom of men judged that chapter to be
fulfilled, without discerning what is said in the chapter
before : Isaiah liii. Ll— He shall see the travail of hia
soul and shall be satisfied. Now thou knowest what
I have already told thee, the cruelty that my Disci­
ples were put to death with did not satisfy me, nor did
the suffering of the martyrs satisfy me, nor hath all
the persecution that hath been satisfied me ; but
what will satisfy me I have already told thee, and now.
I tell thee again, is to see men in heart and mind
longing for Satan’s destruction, as the Jews clamour­
ed for m ine; and as eager to have Satan’s head bruis­
ed as they were to bruise my h eel: for this was the
day of vengeance that I had in my heart, and this it
was written by the prophet I should see and be sa­
tisfied ; but how could I see it before it was reveal­
ed ? and mark what is said in Daniel ix. 24— When
I make an end of sin, and bring in everlasting righte­
ousness, the visions should be fulfilled, that were to
be sealed up till the time to anoint the Most High ;
then what is sealed by man, and from man, must be
revealed by the Most High. Now by the Most High'
it is revealed to thee, that the Promise made in
the Fall bringeth in the Redemption to Man. Now
I shall place this chapter with the Revelation—Be
U u 2
THE SIMILITUDE OF THE BARKEN WOMANV*l39
Digitized by Google
glad and rejoice, for the Marriage of- the Lamb is
come. But what have men to be glad of and rejoice
in, if it allude to one person only ? The happiness of
one does not lessen the sorrows of another, unless it
joins with another, as a mother in distress with the
greatest poverty should have a large fortune left her
to support her children, then they may be glad and
rejoice together, as they are all benefited by it ; just
so is the Marriage of the Lamb ; if it alluded to one
Woman only, that it was revealed to, to claim the
Promise, and the' Lord would give it to her, and it
rested upon her only, there was no room to be glad
and rejoice, for the sake of one ; but when it stands
as I have told thee, the woman, tbat-is the mother
brought todistress by theFall, andChrist theMediator
come to be her Redeemer, to free her children from
all the sin and sorrow that they have suffered to this
day from the Fall, and to bring in a kingdom o f ever­
lasting peace and happiness, and sin arid sorrow to
be done atyay ; then they may be glad and rejoice,
to see the woman’s ransom come ; then will her
children be taught of the Lord, and great will be the
peace of her children. •But how let them mark the
chapter : This peace doth not come in her days, but
it is to herchildren that are believers, that this perfect
peace shall be established, and which no man-living
can prove ever was established. Now thou hast been
reading'the judgment of mendrawn from these chap­
ters; but I now tell thee, their judgment is as-wrong
as the Jews’ was of their prophets; mey drew a wrong
judgment first, and the learned now go on the same,
The Gentiles being called by the Gospel appears to
them to be the fulfilment of the chapter, as my saying
jt is finished, when I died on Calvary. Now mark th^
Commentators there, and I shall answer thee again—
Now thou hast looked and there is no judgment
drawn from my dying words ; and now I tell thee,
they might as well have left all their judgment they,
have drawn; they have drawn their judgment as tQtjfo
8 4 ( ^ V lltr i EXPLANATIONS OF TftB
Digitized by Google
butwith no more knowledge of what they have drawn,
than thou can$t gain knowledge from what they have
drawn from my Death, and that is none 4 and now I
tell thee thus it is in all the rest; for the fulfilment of
the chapter can never be accomplished till the end.
The calling of the Gentiles is meant in that chapter;
but is the calling of a thing the fulfilment ? I tell thee,
no : no more than the dawn of the morning, or the
break of day, or the rising sun, can be the ending of
the day, to bring the setting sun ; just so is that
chapter to the Gentiles ; they had the dawn of day
from the Gospel,and the Sunof Righteousness arising
to shine unto them, as the sun riseth to shine in the
firmament. Yet still they went on, to suffer perse­
cution, to be tossed with tempests, and not com .
fo.rted to that full and perfect peace that is said in
the chapter,'for all her children to be taught of the
Tord, to be established in righteousness, to be kept
from oppression, to fear no terrors, and have great
peace, and no weapon to be formed against them to
prosper.' Where is the man by learning can prove
this hath been the happy state of the Gentiles, or the
happy state of any Church? and when will they
prove, that all the Gentiles were taught of the Lord,
when they tell you, you must be taught of men,
for the Lord hath left teaching his people ever since
the prophets ceased ? Then where is my Gospel ful­
filled, of the Revelation of my Spirit ? Now mark
these commentators, who place that chapter to the
Gentiles’ being established in that peace and happi­
ness that are there described; and from the Revelation
fell you,'the Dragon, the grand adversary of man­
kind, hath in all ages opposed'the Gospel among
men ; then where is that happiness established that
is here mentioned ? I tell thee, No ; they have seen
but the shadow of the chapter, the substance is not
fulfilled. Now mark Isa. liv. g— For this is as the wa­
ter of Noah unto me ; for as I have sworn that the wa­
fers of Noah shall no more go over the earth, so have
fROPHBC*B$ OP THE CHILDREN OP THE BAEIfE!K$4l
Digitized by Google
RUE EXPLANATIONS OP THE BIBX.BJ
I sworn that I would not be wroth with thee, nor re­
buke thee, neither shall the covenant of my peace
be removed, saith the Lord, that hath mercy on
thee. Now if this chapter was fulfilled to the Gen­
tiles, all their iniquities must be done away, and all
their sins must be pardoned, and their peace must
flow as a river.' Now mark deep this chapter, 'Isaiah
liv ; see the shadows; see the substance that is
spoken in that chapter. Now let men mark deeply
what hath followed the Gentiles, what hath followed
the Christians, that believed in the GoSpel; then
they must see they have been afflicted, tossed with
tempests,.and not comforted ; their sorrows have
been great by the martyrs, great were the persecu­
tion to my disciples, and1 great hath been the per­
secution against Christians to tins day; then when
will they prove their stones were laid with fair co­
lours, they were established in righteousness far
from oppression, and that no terrors could come
near them \ This, O vain men, was never fulfilled
to the Gentiles, nor in any age of the world ; yet it
stands on record to be fulfilled: for as the bow was
set in the cloud for a sign to Noah and all posteri­
ty, the water should no more destroy the earth, so
this chapter stands for man, that a time o f redemp­
tion shall come, for man to be redeemed from all
these sorrows that ages have gone through. Now
place my Bible together and see in what chain the
whole hangeth : now mark these words in Isaiah liv.
'— And thy Redeemer the Holy One of Israel; the
God of thewliole earth shall he be called— W ith
everlasting kindness will I have mercy on thee, saith
the Lord thy Redeemer— And all thy children shall
be taught of the Lord; and great shall be the peace
of thy children. Now come to the Gospel of St.
John viii„ 47— He that is of God heareth God’s
words : ye therefore hear them not, because ye are
not of God. Chapter vi. 39—This is the Father's
will that sent me, that of all which is given me J
.Digitized by v ^ r O O Q i e
HER CHILDREN TO BE TAUGHT OP GOD. 342
should lose nothing, but should raise it up again at
the last day. Chapter xiv. 2(j— But the Comforter,
which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will
send in my Name, he ^hall teach you all things,,
and bring all things to your remembrance. 1 Peter
v. 4— When the chief Shepherd shall appear, ye
shall receive a crown of glory that fadeth not awav.
Revelation xxii. 2— The tree of life, which bearcth
twelve manner of fruits, and yicldeth her fruit every
month : and the leaves of the tree were for the heal­
ing of the nations. •And there shall be ho more
curse.i Verse 12—Behold, I come quickly; and
my reward is with me, to give every man according
as his works shall be. I am Alpha and Omega, the be­
ginning and the ending, the first and the last. Blessed
are they that do his commandments, that they may
Have right to the tree of life—The Spirit and the
Bride say, Come. Let him that heareth say, Come.
— Surely I come quickly. ’ Now let men compare
these Scriptures with the words of Isaiah— All her
children shall be taught of the Lord ; and great shall
be the peace of her children. Now I have shewed *
you from the Bible, how this chain hangs together,
from the Law and the Gospel, to be fulfilled. Now
mark the words— Blessed are they that do his com­
mandments. But w'ithout the revelation of the
Spirit, how shall ye know my commandments'l
T o what purpose did I tell my disciples that the
H oly Ghost the Comforter should come, to bring
all things to their remembrance, if I did not intend
to send it? O vain and' simple men, that profess
to. preach my Gospel, and do not understand it ;
and when I reveal it, ye will not believe it. Was I
not in the Body with my Disciples ? and did I not
draw them to obey my commands ? and did I not
after my ascension send the Holy Ghost unto them,
to strengthen and direct them ? and did I not pro-*
mise to raise it up again in the last day; that ye
might have everlasting life ? Now what do mett
Digitized by Google
314 TRUE E*PtA«fATtdNS O* THE SiftLit*
Understand from these words ? Did I not promise
my Disciples that I went to prepare a' place fof
them, that where I was they should be:also ? then
know they are sealed with m b i n 'glory: but the
meaning of my words are, 1 should raise up tnen in
the last days by the visitation of my Spirit, and the
power of the Holy Ghost, to obey my commands,
as the Disciples did. Now by whom -were the Dis­
ciples taught ? were they taught of God or of man ?
Had they been taught of man they -would follow the
doctrine of the Jews, and never went on to bring in
my Gospel; but they, heard the word not as from
man, but from God, and went through all opposi­
tion and all persecutions, to establish my Gospel i
and now to fulfil m y Gospel, and bring in my
kingdom of peace; men must be enlightened and
drawn by my Spirit tb be workers with m e , as my
Disciples were* then Cometh the end. I was the
first, ahd I am the last: ,1 was the .first in the pro­
phecy at the beginning, and I must be the last to
fulfil that prophecy in the ending; I gave my life
for men’s salvation, that in the end I might accom­
plish their redemption } that they might have their
part in the tree of life, that obey my commands:
but what commands can men obey, before my
command is given by the Spirit, as it is written ?
Now I shall come to the purpose with all men : ye
say the Spirit and the Bride alludes to the church ; 1
ask you what church ? will you answer the esta­
blished church of England ? then I ask you, why
you dissent from it? if you place it to another
church, why do you not all follow it? O , ye
blind leaders of the blind 1 know the Spirit and the
Bride must testify of the end. Mark the chapter
through, weigh d6ep every line ; mark what is said
before; mark what followeth after; and mark the
end— H e which testifieth these things saith, surely
I come quickly : then who is to testify these things
bbt the Spirit qf the living G ob ? \V ill you
Digitized by Google
SPIBIT AND BBIDB TESTIFY OF THE END. 345
.dare,: presumptuous.men, to say it must be testified
b y you,- that you come quickly/ and your feward is
w ith you ? Then what reward will yc bring to give
to every man according to his works ? or, what
tree of life is in ybur power to give to man,' spiritual
or temporal ? what leaves can you bring to. heal the
nations ? If this can be done by man without the
visitation of my Spirit, and without the directions
o f m y Spirit ? Why are not the nations healed al­
ready ? Have ye had eighteen hundred years to be
finding out a way, and never found it out yet ?
T h en as it never was found out by your forefathers,
will ye say ye are wiser than them, to find it out
now , without my aid and.)assistance,, without my
Spirit to direct you ? Then I tell you my Bible
m ust be false, my words must be false, when I pro­
nounced man dead to knowledge: for it was to
knowledge man was dead; and every age of the
world hath proved it : But the just have lived by
faith ; and now I am come to try men to the end,
and place rhy Bible plain before them, and he that
believeth will obey my commands, and have his
part in the tree of life. Now thou sayest in thy
heart, what must, men believe to obey my com­
mands, and have their part in the tree of life ? To
this I answer, let them believe my words in the be­
ginning, when Man was pronounced dead ; let them
w eigh, in all ages, how dead to knowledge men-
hflave been, without my Spirit to visit and' direct
them . Then let them believe the Promise that was
made in the Fall to the Woman-; let them believe
the tree of life was preserved for rinari in the end,
with the sword-to cut down the powers of darkness,
according to the promise made in the F all; then let
them wei&h my Bible through and .see the promise
that was made to Abraham, then they will know it
is by faith, arid not by knowledge, they must gain
the promise: Abraham had no knowledge that I
Digitized by Google
should preserve his Son; yet he had faith to believe
I should fulfil my Promise.
So thy enquiries 1 have answer’d:
W ith my Bible all compare,
Then they’ll know ’twas not by knowledge
Abraham did the Promise share ;
And so to all I now do call,
Men’s knowledge will not do,
Because that I’ve conceal’d from all
What lies before my view,
Before 1 come to ftiake an end,
And every mystery clear.
Did Abraham know how things would bend
Before I call’d him there,
To say the Son shouldnot be slain?
Now to Isaiah come:
And from my Bible Pll maintain
That knowledge men have none; -
The prophets prophesied of me,
But who could understand
The way that it fulfill’d should be?
The Jews could not command:
Then sure to knowledge man is dead,
As I’ve said before:
It was by faith that men were led—
See my disciples there,
The way they came by faith ’tis known*
For knowledge they had none;
• The way l should arise again.
Is in my Gospel known, ^
Then now again I will maintain,
To knowledge men are dead
Mv Bible never was so plain
Before mankind now laid, -
As it is here and doth appear,
The way ’tis hastening o n :
The budding leaves do all appear
To shew the spring is come;
Yet man is dead, a s l have said,
For knowledge they have none;
It is by faith the Scripture saith.
Ana how’tis faith alone
That makes believers to appear
' To judge their summer nigh,
■ That f shall come the whole to clear,
As I before did say;
And all my prophets prophesied,
^ For this they did fbretel.
The Law and Gospel I’ve applied^
How in one chain must fall;
So now the chain it does remain,
\ The Jinks I’ve made them clear:
" *Tis not by knowledge this is done;
’Tis faitu mustjoin them here.
3 4 6 TRUE EXPLANATIONS OP THE BIBLE*
m :ant b e a d t o KNOW LEDGE TO Q O B X FA IT H . $ 4 Jl
So faith will come the whohe to join,
And I shall make them good,
And tell them all my strict command
la to obey my word,
And now believe I’ll not deceive,
Like Abraham to goon:
• It is by faith the Scripture saith
Must bring the life to man.
*So now discern how I do warn,
And my command now see$
It is my Bible to trace through,,
As I’ve commanded y e;
For there >ou’ll find my every word,
As I have mentioned here :
Men have no knowledge of their God,
*Tis faith the whole must clear.
Now faith, you’ll see, is a gift from ME,
But if you it refuse
You’!! see your knowledge all to die,
And perish like the Jews.—
But here within thou dost begin
To ponder deep, I know,
That my command is said by men
l’ye plac’d for them to know.
But my command can never stand,
If men do it deny ;
Judge of a thing they do not know
, Is no command from me.
Quench not the Spirit 1 cotnmand.
From my dhciple given; «
Pespise not prophecies is said;
The Holy Ghost from heaven
If you allow it came to they, „
Then all their sayings hear;
If their commands you do obey
You'll see my Bible clear :
The prophecies they were foretold
That they would surely come. #
* Another day I shall uufold
My Bible clear to man ;
But 1*11 end here and say no more:
If men do weigh all deep
They’ll see my Bible it is clear,
And prophecies must break;
For I must come in Spirit strong
To break the truth to all;
And dead to knowledge must be known
That men are by the Fall; , ‘
So by their heads if you are led,
Then monstrous heads will come,
Tsay, to keep you in the Fall, i
And Satan'hold you strong.
Here ends the Explanations, of the Scriptures quoted
by Garrett and another.
X x 2
* Digitized by Google
348 TRUE BXEXANATItWS OP THE BtBLE.
continuation o f the Explanations from t ie end o f
P art III.
Philippians ii. 10,1 l-r-Thatat the name of Jesug
every knee should bow, of things•in heaven, and
things in earth, and things under the earth; and
that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is
Lord, to the glory of God the Father.
THE ANSWER OF THE LORD.
“ Now let the learned answer, when this was
done—
That every knee did bow to me,
And every tongue confess
That Jesus Christ the Lord must be ?
No Man can answer this
% ’
Twas ever done, I tell you plain,
But know it must be su.—
And now from Pomeroy I shall come.
For men like him do do;
Farrago here, let men appear,
My Bible so they make;
And as the words were spoken here.
So l to merfshall break;
go they must pen the words of Man,
' What he did w iteo f thee,
And then again I’ll answer them*
That so they act for me.*
*
The words of the Rev. Mr. Pomeroy concerning
Joanna * are, “ I shall be ready at all times, and in
“ all places, to maintain my opinion with respect to
“ the farrago of sense and nonsense, of Soripture and
blasphemy, contained in her pretended prophe*
“ cies; that such incoherent matter never could
<e proceed from a sound mind, of from the pure
te Spirit of Wisdom.”
Ephesians iv. 30—And grieve not the Holy Spi­
rit of God, whereby ye are sealed unto the day of
redemption. 8— Wherefore he saith, when he
ascended up on high, he led captivity captive, and
, g.i.c gifts unto men. Q— Now that he ascended,
.what is it but that he also descended first into the
lo er parts of the earth ? 10—He that descended
is the 6 me also that ascended up far above all heai
* See Part Lof the.Explanations of the Bible, page 6 9 ,
Digitized by °oge
ALL FULFILLED AND GATHERED IN CHRIST. 34(>
vens, that he might fill all things. Chapter i. 10—
T hat in the dispensation of the fulness of times he
jnight gather together in one all things in Christ,’
both which are in heaven, and which are on earth;
’even in him. These texts of Scripture Joanna was
ordered to add to his words.
“ Now I shall answer thee from these texts o f
Scripture; What sense and nonsense does Pomeroy
make of the Bible ? Let him mark the verses
penned before, and then let him see his own words
follow; and the texts that I have mentioned. How
am I to fulfil all things ? or how are all things to be
fulfilled, in the dispensation o f the fulness of the
times, and gathered together one in Christ ? Now
if all things must be gathered together in m e , my
Spirit must come to visit; for where is the man
who can gather all things together .of things in
earth, and leave out the things in heaven ? Can
Pomeroy gather together all, thy believers to join
with him in his belief ? Then if he cannot do the
least, let him know he cannot do the greater. Then
how dare he to exercise himself in things too high
for him? The way that men make out my Bible,
they make of. it sense and nonsense; and my dis­
ciples full of blasphemy, to place all these Scriptures
of me if they arc not to be fulfilled. So he may
call my Bible as he called thy writings, pretended
prophecies; for no better than' pretended prophecie#
dcrmeu make of my Go9pel, as the Jews made of
the prophets of old. Now let Pomeroy answer
Ephesians i. 17—The God of our Lord Jesus Christ,
the Father of Glory, may give unto yon the Spirit
of Wisdom and Revelation in the knowledge of him.
Now if this be given by the Lord, the Revelation of
Jesus Christ, let him answer, how it can be given by
man ? and let him answer why you are to pray for it,
that God will give the knowledge of himself? why
did my disciples teach a doctrine that never could be?
nor eyer was expected to be ? Now let him answer.
Digitized by Google
what is mean" by living in the Spirit, and walking in
the Spirit ? 1 Cor. xv. 22— For as in, Adam all die,
even so in Christ shall all he made alive. Ver. 24—
Then comeththe end, when he shall have dcliveredup
the kingdom to God, even the Father; when he shall
have put down all rule and all authority and power.
Verse 25— For he must reign, till he hath put all
enemies under his feet. The last enemy that shall be
destroyed is Death.
Now unto man I bold will come,
Like Pomeroy to appear ;.
, Just as the words were spoke by him
The shepherds I see here ;
They make the same my Bible come,
My prophecies, I see,
In sense and nonsence they go on
And make it blasphemy.
My Gospel here no man can clear,
The way that they go on ;
vW hat wisdom in your God appear!* »
I ask the sons of men ?
-W hen that this earth I did bring forth,
And form’d it at the first,
From my Apostles it is plac'd.
I’ll do it .at the last. '
Now Adam, see, is said by ye,
Died in the Woman’s Fall *
1 And so you all must live in ME*
■
* When I to her do call v ^
Forjust the same, you see my Name*
You must be made alive,
As he did die, I now do say,
’Then how can you contrive
Another way t then answer m e*
# J For blasphemy is here,
What my Apostle then did sayv
If you the thing can clear; »
Another way that this must be,
In Adam you did die,
And by the Woman's band, yon say,
Did my Apostle Ire,
To say in me your Life should be,
As Adam’s death did come ?
What sense and nomease d6 you make?
Your Bibles you condemn*
For blasphemy ‘
was spoke by he,
‘ x f' If I don’t make it good, -
The very way that he did.die,
< From her *tis understood ;
Then now the same, know ye MY NAME,
iMy SpjftiT stropg ^ here,
350 TBUB EXPLANATIONS OF THE BIBLf,
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
THE B IB L E IS NONSENSE TO HUMAN WISDOM. 351
'That she (he Promise now may claim.
And make my Gospel clear.
The strength's in me, you all shall see,
The ending now is come;
And as my Gospel here is plac’d,
I tell you, so’t shall come:
The enmity destroy’d shall be.
The power of hell I’ll shake;
To tread him down I’ll now be found,
And all his power I’ll break.
As he began I now shall end,
After his manner here,
The Woman was his bold intent
To make the guilt appear;
But known to me his ai ts to be,
The way that he betray’d ;
Therefore the Promise I made she,
Her seed should bruise his head.
But can it come, ye simple men,
Till she the Promise claim ?
Then her I’ll free, you’ll live in ME,
That do with her contend—
4
4Gur Bible’s true, before our view,
4
4And it he’ll now make good :
4
4The power of Christ all this cand*
4
4To bruise the Serpent’s head.
4
4Then now we see the enemy
•4That he will here destroy ;
4
4By Satan first the death was cast,
4
4 But now we shall enjoy,
4
4Tor Christ to come and him condemn^ v
4
4 And conquer then our Foe :
4
4When the last enemy is gone,
4
4Then all ourjoys shall fiowr.
4
4Like Adam’s first when he was plac’4*
And Paradise began ;
44So when our enemy is cu t,
4
4Our Life in Christ shall come 1
”
So men see hear my Gospel clear, 1
How you do place the whole,
In sense and nonsense you can’t dear.
Your wisdom down must fall:
My Bible, sec, is blasphemy,
The way ’tis plac d by man ;
And my Apostles they must lie:
' The trial none can stand
For to appear, my Bible clear,
Till I ao all reveal;
For sense and nonsense men make hero
If l must all conceal,
Ffever appear in Spirit here
To make my Bible good;
I ask mankind how they can dear
My Bible as it stood ?
Digitized by Google
352 TRUE EXPLANATIONS OF THE B1BL&
So now from he I answer thee*
My Bible men must blame;
And sense and nonsense they must i
To put them all to shame.
Now pen the word that's on record,
111 answer thee again.**
Ephesians, vi. 13. to 17—-Wherefore take unto
you the whole armour of God, that ye may be able
to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to
stand. Stand therefore, havirig your loins girt about
with truth, and having on the breastplate of righteous*
ness ; and your feet shod with' the preparation of the
Gospel of peace; above all, taking the shield of faith,
wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery
darts of the wicked. And take the helnletof saliva­
tion, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word
of God.
*\ Now from my word, that's on record,’
I bid mankind to take
, The Spir it’s sword, it is my word*
To make all hell to shake;
To chain him down my word is found.
And will you.it deny ?
Then sense and nonsense you must make
' My Bible as it doth lie:
My armour here I bid men wear,
The armour whole of m e;
When my Salvation doth draw near
The Gospel's peace you’ll see
In every land it then must stand,
But evil days come first}
Because the unbelief of man
Will make my anger burst
But chose that come in faith now strong,
Jud^e all my Bible true,
The shield of faith they must put on,
T o quench.their every foe;
For fiery darts in evil hearts
He ll surely work in m an;
Therefore your hearts, you must prepard
In all my strength to stand ;
That is, in me vour faith must be
My Bible riffulfil;
Then you will quench your enemy,
My Bible is \our shield
Of faith to stand, as I command.
My helmet shall be near ;
Digitized by
•In my Salvation you shall stand,
Then what have you to feat ?
The Spirit’s sword* you’ll find tfY W
OUl)
Will bear you safely through,
If you do say with one accord,
We judge the Gospel true,
* That Christ will tomb again to man*
wAs he did say before—*
And my disciples so did name,
And so doth now appear.
So we believe that none deceive*
“ Our Bible’s plac’d this way.”
But if in fear men do appear.
The TRUTH th ey ne'er shall see;
Then they maycome, with PomeroyjdiiH»
*
*What blasphemy is here,
**To say that Christ again shouldcome
. MOur every guilt to clear?”
' Then they’ll go through, l tell thee now
*
And place my Bible wronr.
If they deny my Bible through,
This way 1shall not come ;
Then I’ll appear like Pomeroy hire*
And answer from his w&rd:
Yourjarring nonsense none can clear
To prove the truth of Go d ;
Pretended here then must appear
My Bible s prophecies;
Because your wisdom cannot clear,
Tb say they did not lie,
I f I dont come again to man,
As they have plac'd it through.
My BiMe they do so condemn,
As Pomeroy said of you:
But he shall fell, 1 tell you all, »
And tremble at my feet ;
There’s no way he shall-shun his d ill;
, For if he’ll now submit,
Honour to lose to free the cost,
Your honour you’ll maintain;
Because that he like thousands be;
He is a Type of men:
And blasphemy was spoke by he*
That every soul shall know;
So by that man# 1say, your land
In blasphemy doth go;
So his reproof may others move*
f As they’re reprov’d the.same.
If blasphemy is spoke by he,
Then thousanos soare come
For to blaspheme my every NAM
B*
v My fyjBLE all deny ;
Bijt Pomeroy now I’ll put to sham&5
Then let the mockers cry-—
............. - Y y * - --
tafft- B tltftt AS t o fH E SBfcOfrB ADVERT. 353
r
Digitized by foozle
3 E4 TBUE EfPLARATipifS ©P fIfE
“ Like him vrestand throughout the land*
/ “ His honour he bath lost;
Np# G
jipwe now uphold the man,
“ if hejn lies 4oth hoapt”
But know, vain men, you do/contend
In lies as b§d as he:
Apd I shall prove it in the end,
"Then tremhling you may He®
Your fate to shun, he begaurf
For he cannot appuaj?,
(Knowingthe lip of TgyTtt must stand?)
With any courage here.
He will see plain, ye sops of men*
That.he hath caus’d his full y
^And so with men I shall contend,
He stands a Type for all*"
Here ended Thursday night, Qct.0.5, 1804.
. Monday.morning, October 29, t804.
Galatians iv. 4, S, 0—-But when the - fulness of
the time was come, G od sent forth his Son/ made ofa
W om an, made under the Law, to redeem them
that were under 'th e Law, that we might re­
ceive the adoption of sons. And because ye are
sons, God hath sent forth the Spirit of his Son into
your hearts, crying, “ Abba, Father.” Chap. i. 8—
But though we, or an angel from heafcen, preach any
othjer Gospel unto you. than that which we have
preached unto you, let him be accursed. Verse 12
— I neither received it. of man, neither was I taught
it, but by the Revelation of Jesus Christ.
THE ANSWER OF THE LORD.
“ Now, Joanna, I shall answer thee: T hou hast
never received thine from man, nor hast thou learnt
it from any doctrine of man,' or any revelation of
m t\n; but from the revelation of my Spirit, which
is sent forth into* thy heart, that ye may: be made
heirs of God throygh Christ. Now why do men
preach another doctrine, and deny my Spirit being
sent forth in thee ? Then they must preach ano-
\
Digitized by Google
M tA W lfcO OP t t t B P tfiJfB S S OP T tM B .’ 3 5 5 '
ih e r Gospel that was never taught them by me, nor
m y disciples; but my Gospel was never understood
b y any man, for they thought the fulness of time
w as when I came upon the earth, and Was born of
th e W oman ; blit will meri prove I Was made of
th e Woman ? I ha.ve already told thee, and I now
te ll thee again, I was made of the H o n G h o s t ,
a n d became the S o n of G o d , taking man’s nature
u p o n m e , in every form and fashion aj a man |
neither was man’s redemption then : and the Jews
th a t were under the Law, are under the Law to this -
day. But what do men marvel at, to think that that.
Scripture should allude to a Woman in* the last
days, . whom my Spirit should come to visit, to
claim the Promise that was made in the Fall, and
redeem men from the Fall, when I have told you
th a t that P r o m is e must be claimed by the W oman ?
B u t how is the W om an to claim it, without m y
S p i r i t coming to visit h6r? And why does it ap­
pear more marvellous to you, that God should send
fo rth the Spirit of hi* Son into her heart to free the
F a ll and claim the Promise, that ye may be made
H eirs of God, and joint Heirs with Jesus Christ,
th an it is marvellous that God should send forth the
S pirit of his Son into your hearts, thereby crying,
A bba, Father, making you Heirs of God through ■
C hrist ?
Now here to. man I bold shall corner
And let them answer mi:;
Mv Gos'iiel no man doth discern,
How all fulfill d must be;
In the full tim e, call all to mind.
The whole 1rnnut redeem.
. Under the Law, yon all must know,
The Promise stands for men ;
The Woman’s seed must bruise his head.
Then I must sure be iiere,
And in the Woman strong to plead.
Your great Deliverer here ;
T o clear the Fatt, 1 tell you all,
I in her so must coipe,
Because her Promise l must clear,
And in her form, be it known,
y ‘ ^ Digitized by Google
My Spirit strong this way must come,
' ’*Or how could she go through?
%tell you all, ye sons of men,
My Gospel none do l$now,
The Way *tis plac’d, ye fallen race, ‘
As none do understand;
v You by the Woman me disgrace,
. The Fall, you must command,
I tell you plain, ye sons of men,
. Her Promise ryust it cleat;; •
If you discern how I do warn, ~ '
' In her 1 must appear
» ., l a Sp i r i t s t r o n g 5 a*.d so I’m c o m b —?
„ But could you all see plain,
' That God has so sent forth his Son,
In Sp i r i t to r e d e e m ,
- And you went on to mac\ her hapd.
More fatal now it would be
Than for the Jews, that did condemn
And nail’d Me to the tree 5
My hands again, ye sons ofmen.
You'd nail them all the same, ’
In SpiftiT strong now I am come,
- ^ And you the Woman blame* /
,To claim th e w o r d th a t’s on record—
Blind mortals, you must see
It is the Sp i r i t of your L o r d ; * ,
It can ne’er he done by she;
Yet in her form, it must be known,
. The P r o m is e i m u st claim ,
* If I do free the Fall, I say,
' And all my Sons redeem.
The Prom se strong to her must com**
, As it was madeat FiRST;
' I tell you plain, ye sons of m ei^
No other wav ’<can burst;
T*».e,pROMisE there the whole must clear,
‘ And this I’m come to do; ’
And yet you do deny me here, ;
My Gospjel none do know,
More than the Law the Jews d id know ^ *
They stumbled at the first*
And now I'm come in Spirit strong*
You like the J.ews do burst . ’
Another way, you now dp say, •
My t ±o spe l here doth^stand ;
Then can you prove that prophecy r
' Redeem’d the Law for man,
When I appear’d in body here* \
In person like mankind ?
I tell you, no man this can clear ;
My Gospel 1do find .
l»ike Pomeroy’s words, what’s onrecord* ‘
’ Pretended all to be;
3 $ 3 TRUE EXPLANATIONS OP TJH* B1SLB«
Digitized by Google
4 0V C & B N IH 6 TH E RED EM PTIO N . ' 3 5 7
, <
* *Tis but pretended prophecies '
My Gospel the\ do see;
b eca u se no man on earth can come
To say I did redeem t
Them from the Law, you all do know* *
The Jew s in it are,seen ;
And so they stand, I say, for man
A proverb of the Law ;
And you must know they’re pot redeem’d 5 -
Then can you prove it so, *
That at that time the thing was done >
Then how can you appear
To say my Gospel true is coipe,
The way men plac’d it here ?
No, no; tis 1, who dwell on high*
My Gospel must reveal;
And in the Spirit now, 1 say, -
My Gospel I'll fulfil;
To make you sons and heirs^ I’m come.
My Spirit I've sent here*
And yet, 1 know men do condemn,
Though they can never clear
The truth at first it so did burst*-
Like Pomeroy men go on, . *
pretended prophecies at first, -
They say my Gospels come;
Can man appear the truth to clear?
They all must answer, N o;
And own the Jews do now appear
Strong in the L*aw to go ; .
For unto me they do not flee*
To make my .Gospel good;
And so, l say, like Pomeroy,
My Gospel men allude
Jb nonsense here for to appear* '
As they can’t make it true;
Nor yet a word can they now clear
I’ve laid before their view.
Jdy Spirit strong l said should comer
As my Disciples penq d—
Cod sent the Spirit of his Son
Into your hearts to rend
The every veil, that now doth "stand
Betwixt mankind and me.
Tf you will gain the promis’d laud,
And iiow like sons be free,
Jlade heirs of lod, as it is -aid, .
And joint heirs with the Son, " '
Then c airn the Promise as twas made: .
in Spirit you must join,
I tell you here, with hei appear,
For to redeem the Fall, '
fo r that’s trie Law of God you know,
* The Woman he must call*
Digitized by Google
$56- TRUE! RXPtAKATK^rfr d ^ T H i BF#LE<
Her Promise claim for to redeem* '
. And have the Serpent ca9t ; ,
For interwoven must be seen, '
There is no seam to burst -
To part the two, you all must know,
For both alike do stand;
And as the first on me was plac'd,
The second I command
My Father's will for to ftiifil, .
_ And now fulfilled shall be; '
Therefore I’m come in Spirit strong,
To claim it now in thee. ,
. Ne’er taught of man behold thy hand,
For no man this did know,
The way my Gospel here doth stand, *
Till 1 reveal’d it so ; .
So 'tis from me, all flesh shall see, x
,’Tis I’ve reveal’d the word; ,
My Spirit strong to thee is coine, —
As m my Gospel said. .
' So learned men may now begin ’ k
To place a different way,
And by their learning may contend,
Pretended prophecy
My Bible here, that they can’t dear •
The thing was?ever done* .
But if I do not so appear, “
The truth can never com e; . v
( So see the jirst, and judge the hati
' How men will make it true, ?
That man’s redemption thefr did bunt— -
Bring all before your view i ^
As I have said, the Jews misled, ‘
And so the Law doth stand;
No learning here the thing can dear,
My Gospel to command,
To say ’twas then, ye sons of men#
Nor can you say you're free; . -
- That in the Spirit strong I’m come,
To make you heirs with me:
No, no; behind, you all will find,
, Those words are hastening on ;
But in the Spir it, ail shall find,
To clear the whole I’m come.
The chapter through I bid men go** '
And now discern it deep; ..
The travailing Woman you may know
That thus alike does break, ,
To have you come her children* strong—
And now her children see : -
I am her husband, ’t shall be known,
, To make you heirs with me.
So Sarahs here you must appear;
The seed of faith must cotne; *’ .
* Galatiain iv
% •
Digitized by Google
' The Wagers I shell never clear,
* For I shall .cast out them.
So Isaacs, see, you all must be,
The Promise now to claim 5
’Tisfrom the Woman that is free,
When I her cause maintain,
The Serpent cast, my Spirit burst,
I tell you, in her strong* .
This was my Promise at the first,
. And so I say ’tis come.
$0 men dispute; but at the root
The whole is cast by she—
The Promise claim, ye sons of men,
And I shall make you free.
So I’ll end here and say no more*
Let learned men dispute,
And if they say another way,
Til surely strike them mute;
More marvellous here does this appear,
To have my Spirit come,
The Fall in every thing to clear,
Than of her to be born.”
H
O
WTICKWORLD IS TO BB RECONCILED TOGOD» 36$
Tuesday evening, Oct* %09 1804*
1 Corinthians iv. 5— Judge nothing ’before the
time, until the Lord cofne, who both will bring to
light the hidden things of darkness, and will make
manifest the counsels of the hearts : and then shall
every man have praise of God. Romans xvi. 20—
The God of Peace shalL bruise Satan under your feet
shortly. 2 Corinthians v. IQ—To wit, that God
was in Christ, reconciling the world unto himself,
not imputing their trespasses unto th em ; and hath
committed unto us the word of reconciliation.
“ The promise of reconciliation is made by the
G ospel; but how can that reconciliation take place
before Satan is bruised under your feet ? Then how
can you judge before the time that I come in the
Spirit to bring to light all the hidden things of dark­
ness and make manifest the counsels «f the heart ?
But when were the hidden things of darkness brought
to light, or made manifest to man ? or, how can it
be done by man ? F or who know eththe counsels
Digitized by v ^ r O O Q i e
of the heart, but God only l M an scarcely know#
the counsel of his own heart, so changeable is man
in his being. Now I tell thee, all these Scriptures
stand on record for my second co m in O, that they
may appear plain to m an: ,all this was prophesied
before, that I should reconcile the world to myself;
that I should bruise Satan under your heel; and
bring to light the hidden things of darkness.
®60 TRUE EXPLANATIONS OP THE ftiBlfe.
"Now where’s the man oil earth can comfe
To say ’twas ever so,
That I the world did reconcile?
You all must ahswer, No,
Unto the Lord, with oue accord*
You know’twas never done;
Yet, from the apostles you do see,
In Christ it so must come;
And Satan, see, he bruis’d must be,
As oft is mention’d here;
Look through my Gospel, and you'll sec
How oft 'tis.mention'd. there.
Then how can man so boldly stand
Against me to dispute?
Mv Bible ho man will command,
ToJ x it to the roof:
But lie must fall, I telfyou all, -
My Gospel so is^plac’d;
* And now I’m coming to you all.
My Spirit you may taste;
For I’ll reveal, and not conceal, - ,
My coming so must be, . _
And then the sight I’ll bring to light, ’
Dark'sayings, you will see,
Will be reveal’d and not conceal’d, . ,
For I’ll reveal my word; ~ .
* But there’s no man on earth can come
To make my Gospel good.
Till I appear in Spirit here, v
Thexoholefor to reveal;
And now my Gospel I shall cleat#
And nothing will conceal.
So braise to me from man shall come
When I have all went through;
. And when my Gospel’s all naade knows.
1 know the stubborn Jews
Wil? ’ben return, in sorrow mourn,
W hen they the end do.eee\
Thai it was for the Fall of Man \
Idled upon the tree;
- The Promise claim that 1 didnam%
The Fall wagat the first;
Digitized by
But this they never did discern.
But marvel I ‘
was cast
The Son ofGod to them made known*
They well might marvel here,
T f for the one my life laid down,
And not the other clear;
But when the two, before their view^
Are plainly prov’d to be;
Then, 1 do say, the stubborn Jews
My Gospel plain will see.
So ill go on, my Gospel strong
I surely shall fulfil:
The fulness of the time is come
That my avenging heel
Shall bruise the head, as it is said—
But thou dost grieve for Man
W ho mock’d my word* that’s on. record
And written by thy hand
My word to be, they all will see—
My Bible here is plain:
’Tis in the Spirit 1must come,
When all things are made known;
For how to man could this be done,
, When 1 in power appear
To chain the powers of darkness down ?
Then earth may tremble here!
Nothing they’d know, 1 tell thee so,
Should l hot visit first,
T o let them know how things must go* .
When I in power do burst.
NoW I’ll-appear to ask men here—
Suppose this night 1 come
To snake the earthly pillars here,
And thundering bolts roll on
From shore to shore, like cannons' roar*
And earth’s foundation shake?
I ask thee how men would appear
Jf I this way should break,
And they not know it must be so,,
To have my Kingdom come ?
Then terrors, see, like death would he
The fatal end of man;
Because no love I then could, prove
I n M a n t o w i s h mi: n e a r *.
So with my Bible I’ll go on—
T is time for all to tear;
Because their love I now sliall prove,
Men's love I'm come to try :
And those that w kk my Kingdom near
Wilbfind' their Saviour nigh,
For to redeem from hell and sin;
But those that do it mock
- Here ends Tuesday evening, and the following was given on
Wednesday evening, October 31st, 18<M
.
Z z
REASONS TOR REVEALING HIDDEN MYSTERIES. 3$4
Digitized by Google
They cannot stand when l command
To bring on all the stroke.
From what is penn d mark ye the end,
‘ What prophecies are come:
The jchurch might how be edified,
The truth might be made known;
For prophecies you are bid to crave,
As my Apostle penn’d,
And prophecies l now do give,
That all pmy know the end/*
1 Corinthians xiv. 1, 4— Desire spiritual gifts, but
rather that*ye may prophesy.— He that prophesieth
edifieth the church. 'Read the chapter through.
Chapter xii. read through, for there it is written of
the Spirit of Prophecy being given, as well as the
Spirit of Wisdom, and other gifts. The Spirit of
Prophecy is spoken of also in many places in the
Qospel, that it is to be given to the edifyipg of the
church.
502 TRVE EXPLANATIONS OF THE BIBLE:
THE ANSWER OF THE LORD,
“ Now, Joanna, I shall answer thee and lot the
learned answer m e what they make of my Bible?
W hy did ,my apostle teach them to desfre spiritual
gifts, and rather prophecies, that the church might
be edified thereby, if they are not useful to man,
nor profitable to man ?
Then boldly men must answer here, '
That my apostle sure did err,
To bid them wish for prophecy,
• That spiritual gifts in them might lie,
That when my coming did appear
The church thereby might know and hear
My kingdom it was*nigh at hand:
And by this warning they may stand
With courage great, when I appear,
And hearts inflam’d to wish me near;
For that’
s the way that I must come:
It is by the desire of man,
That l shall come your Priest and King}
By your desire my Kingdom bring
Unto the, sons of men below.
Now if you trace my Bible through,
No other way I shall appear,
. Because my Bible, tells you here.
That man’s desire I sure must bq „
b e fo r e the nations I dofre e .
Digitized by Google
^ROPHECT GIVEN FOR EDIFYING THE CHURCH. 363
It is the strong desire of some;
And that desire will further go
In many hearts, I well do know,
Until they'll bring my Kingdom near;
And so that way 1 shall appear;
For in the Spirit I’ll go on
To shew my Kingdom is at hand;
And so the hearts of men I’ll see,
t)f those that long and wish for me.—
But in thy heart thou answerest here,
Thousands do wish it to appear, ,
But do not wish for me to ward,
But judge’t must be brought in by Man:
put if mankind do judge it so,
Upon their heads the blame, you know,
Must surely come, as ’tis hot done:
So I’ll condemn the sons of men,
Who judge’it can be brought in-by man-^
Answer me, why it is not done?
And then again TIL answer thee:
Because no man I'll ever free
If it could be brought in by man;
Because the thing they have not done.
Then know* my Spirit must appear
To warn you all that I am near;
But if they’ll not believe my word, .
That l have left upon record.
That ’tis in Spirit I must come, ,
I know they’ll ne’er believe in man*
Because in judgment men are found
To vary strong in every sound:
Then how can mankind e’er appear
To prove mv Kingdom it is near,
Before together they agree,
Confess the knowledge come from me?
‘ ’ cy,
So now together both discern,
And judge the manner I dor.warn;
From Parables I did begin.
From Parables I’m going oh ; ,
Though some say fables do appear—
They judge the L ord would not compare
Tfieiinvith the things-that are hastening on$
Then to the prophets now I'll cohie,
And ask them, Why 1 did compare
Such Types and Shadows mention’d there;
And call’d them all as prophecies*
And yet too deep they all do lie
)"or any man to understand ?
Then -plainer words I must command* -
For me to place as Types now here—
My fables plainer do appear;
So man’s desire 1 here shall come :
1 z 2
Digitized by Google
Than what are in my Bible pean’d.
1 see them ail too deep for men—
Unto my prophets now I'll go,
The visions unto men I’ll shew,
And ask them how they’ll now explain
The visions that were shewn to them.
304 TRUE EXPLANATIONS 0? THE BIBLE.
Now let the learned answer the first chapter Of
Ezekiel, and tell me, why a vision was shewn to
the prophet, that he nor any other man ever under­
stood ? But of what use is that vision to man, if it
is never -to be understood ? Now let them discern
the 8th wrj*.—They had the hands of a man under
their wings on their four sides; and the four had
their faces and their wings. Their wings were joined
one to another. Here is a vision no man can ex­
plain ; but I shall hereafter explain it to thee; but
first I will try the talents of men, what they will
make of the vision through; or o f what use the vi­
sion is, if it was never to be known or understood.
Now as men have publicly mocked my directions to
thee, let them answer Chapter iv. 4—-Lie thou also
upon thy left side, and lay the iniquity of the house
of Israel upon i t : according to the number of the
days that thou shalt lie upon it thou shalt bear their
iniquity—390days.
s
Now let die learned answer here,
Why that my prophet thus should bear
The iniquities so great for man ?
Mark deep what I did lay on bhn9
And how his food l did prepare;
That I said after they should bear
The sufferings I did lay on he:
And so the same I've said of thee. -
The Type of thee stands deep for all
That now do mock this heavenly call;
And such like thee they shall appear.
W han I thy sufferings all do clear;
I'll cast it on the sons of men,
And then their sicbiess shall he seen*
If bow they’re sick to hear my word.
And mode the coming of the L ana*
Then sure thy sickness I shall turn
On the ungreatful sons of m en5
And 60 thy sickness they shall see.
Turn'd back upontby fops shall be *
Digitized by Google
TYPES SfeT lN THE PROPHET FOR THE PEOPLE. $ 6 5
I'll make them sick to hear the sound
That in the nation shall abound;
And l shall bring it on their head,
Because ungrateful men do plead
Against my Bible and my word.
Against the coming of the L ord.
For unto man doth all appear,
Just like thy appetite, that here
Thou knowest again ’tis gone from bread,
And so are men gone from my word,
That they no more my word can taste
Than thou hast power for to digest,
I tell thee here, the bread of man;
And perfect so I see the land;
Because the bread, that is My word,
" T*
---- said:
Then sick like thee they'll surely come;
And weak like thee they’ll soon appear:
Thou knowest, one day thou could st not bear,
I say, in strength to stand the whole $
For on thy bed thou’st often fell,
And can’st not stand the day all through,
But on thy bed, thou well dost know,
That every day thou art forc'd to lie;
And to the natiou this I say,
I’ll make them weak and sick like thee,
The want of bread is known to me
Makes all thy sickness to encrease,
Because that bread thou can’t digest:,
And so men's sickness will come on—
I’ve said my word is bread to man,
But they cannot digest it here;
Therefore ’tis time for all to fear,
And tremble much the Type to see
That I have plac'd so strong in thee,
As in my prophet plac'd before.
Now let thy sickness to appear,
And both together let them weigh,
Then see the dawning of the day.”
After the three months that Joanna's appetite was
taken from bread, it Was restored for five weeks ;
and on the 24th of October taken from her again,
and she has not been able to eat bread since; there­
fore she eats but one meal a day, which is her din­
ner; but is so weak, faint, and'sick, that she knows
not how to abide>up four or five hours together,
but is obliged to lie down upon the bed every day,
go to bed early, and rise late.
Digitized by L r O O Q l e
- “ The Type to man in thee is stfong-^
Tis time for all to feap
That now in mockery $6'go oni
The Type for all stands here;
In thee ’tis plac’d, and so ’twill burst;
. I tell them, strong on man.
Just as the shadows plac’d at first.
Did to my prophet come,
And so tis here, the end Til clestr;
’Tis come to thee the same;
Then let the sons of metf take care;
That now do mock my name l
Yot I’ll go on; mV Bible strong
From Types 1 plac'd before,
And so the ending so shall come,
Then let mankind take care
IIow they do mock the coming stroke;
That i have plac’d in thee;
And those that do so boldly mock, -
Tell me how this could be,
That thou dost here this way appear,
* Thy appetite so gone ?
* I told thee that in the tenth year
The Types would here be strong;
And strong they b£, they all will ste;
That I have plac’d this year,
I say, in thee for all to see
What shortly will appear. ,
So weigh the whole and judge your fall;
• If you this way go on,
It is a warnipg deep for all
That now do mock her hand.
Can you begin, ye sons of men,
To say from her’tis done ?
Her sufferings here that do appear;
' And from herself do come,
To make it so ? vain mortals know;
Her mockery soon should end; -
For l should strike a fatal blow,
She never should pretend
To feign the thing to have it seen'
Doth like my Bible stand,
And bring the mystery out to men;
How you may all command.
So now see plain, ye sons of men*
My prophet plac’d before,
And now in her what shadows are,
The likeness to appear;-
• Her weakness see your destiny,
She’
s suffering now for all; .
And so will end your destiny,
- If you do mock her call. .
The shadows here you all may fear#
The substance it will come,
&6() TEUE EXPLANATIONS OP 'THE B i B t f e
.Digitized by Google
(THE TYPES PtACED IN EZEKIEL CONTINUED. 30/
I tell you, in thefollowin* t/cart
If she be dead and gone *
,
fo r Til goon, from shadows strongf
Could ne’er be done by she.
1 ask you, why not years agone
This sickness none did see
In her was plac'd* ye fallen race ?
She fasted at the first ;
Her appetite, ’tis known to me,
With pleasure meat could taste;
But now’tis gone, the end’s near come,
She’th bear'd the load tor all:
And those that in her faith do stand,
They need to fear no fall;
For they'll grow wise, and I'll chastise
The unbelievers here.
Could things go on by her weak hand
As all doth now appear?
| tell you, No ; they all shall know—
The learned may dispute,
For I’ll appear in wisdom here
And strike their learning mute.
But 111 end here and say no more;
Thy weakness 1 do see, •
Thou knowest not how to persevere,
Or speak th e words of m e !’"
Continuation of the Bible,from Thursday night, Nov. I .
Sunday evening) Nor• 4, 1304.
“ Here I have shewed the likeness with they and
t)ie prophet. As in me there is no variableness, or
shadow of turning, then why do men seek out so
jqaany inventions, to say I must vary and turn from
tjie whole, when I said I am God, and changeth.
Dot? Now let them answer from EzfLul v. I— Son
of man, take thee a sharp knife, take thee a barber’s
razor, and cause it to pass upon thy head, and upon
thy heard; then take thee a balance to weigh and
divide the hair. Now as I know men are mocking
the parables that I have ordered thee to put in print,
and mocking the things I have ordered thee to do,
by Sealing the I*eopld, for their protection, that notv
are looking to me for kedemption ; and ordered
Digitized by Google
thee to seal up Satan’s destruction; now ns all thig
appears foolish to mankind, and placed as types and
shadows of things to come. Let them answer m e ,
from the prophet, whether these things, I have com*
tnanded thee to do, are more simple than what I
Commanded the prophet to do ? Could I not bring
all the judgments upon the people, that I threatened,
without ordering the prophet to, cut off his hair by
two different instruments ? M ark the chapter and
weigh it through, what I commanded the prophet
to do, and how I brought it as types and shadows to
the people, of what I should do unto them. Tell
m e , ye blind leaders of the blind, when I pronounced
judgments bjr the prdphets, without setting some
type and shadow in them,, to. set signs before them ?
Now let this be answered by the learned, why I
should do all these things at first, to set types and
shadows, from what I should do at j£rst, and vary
from them at last ? Now let them weigh Chapter
viii. 8—T hen he said unto m e , son of man, dig now­
in the w all: and when- I had digged the wall, be*
hold a door. And he said unto me go in and be­
hold the wicked abomination that they do here.
Now let the learned answer h e tram this' vision,
what abomination did he hear from the creeping
things or the abominable beasts ? Yet fisom these
things I shewed him the abomination that was in
man : but could I not tell him what abomination
there was ii\ the sons of men, without shewing him
the, vision ? Chapter x. 13— As for the wheels, it
was cried unto them, O w heel: and every one had
four faces. <
368 TBUB EXPLANATIONS 09 TBE .BIBLE1
Now let the learned men appear
And answer my demand,
Why all these visions I plac'd here,
That none do understand ?
Yet know at first I so did bursty
And so 1
:shall go. on:;
These visions all by me were plac’cfe.
To shew the sons of men,
Digitized by
4 ' From Types at first my Bible's plac'd.
From Visions to go on,
And so, l tell you. At the last
From visions I snail come.
So here's a wheel beyond men's skill*
The way l shall go round ;
Arid so at first they bruis'd my heel,
The Promise shall be found ;
For I'll go on from man to man
Till 1 have work’d all through;
The different faces, now command,
1 upto all shall shew;
The feces nere I now shall clear,
The cherub men shall see,
That now do come in heart to joiri,
And wiph to dwell with me ;
The face of men may now come oh*
To turn which way they will,
They’ll find the lion now is come
The eagle for to kill.
So now take care, those that mock herd,
The vision it goes deep;
My ways to man how could I clear
Another way to break ? ,
Had 1 said then they should be slain,
And so fulfill’d my word,
They’d say no prophecies remain'd,
Tne coming of their L ord ;
For all was past, as it was plac'd,
But from the vision here;
These visions strong stand deep for mad,
The ending now draws near.
So learned men may now begin
These visions to explain,
And when their wisdom 1 have seen,
I’ll answer thee again.
The' chapters through I bid them g6
And so explajn the word;
But if they say they do not know,
Then let them own the L ord
He must appear the whole to clear,
Whp gave them birth at first :
For men wisdom they do err,
They know not how .’twill burst, ✓
Fbr to fulfil the every wheel
That I’ll work round for mart;
, 1 know it is beyond their skill
The way I've laid my plan.
Hh&ehel xin. 2— Son of than, prophesy against
the prophets of Israel that prophesy, and say unto
them that prophesy out of their own hearts, hear ye
the words of the L o rd : thus saith the Lord God.
3 A > i
D igitized by V j O O Q L C
fcfc iUDGMENTS pROBttESIED WlYHOtTT TYPES. 3 0 #
4 7 0 TRUE EXPLANATIONS 09 THE BIBLE i
Wpe untt> the foqlish prophets, who follow their own
«pkits,and have seen nothing.
Now H I appear to answer here,
The learned may dispute:
♦In their own spirits they appear,
But I shall strike them mute.
Nothing they've seen, to me 'tis know]!,
And nothing do they know;
Yet like the foxes they are come,
That in the /desert go:
They’ll not appear the truth to clear,
And nothing will they see;
The gaps are breaking every-where,
And down they all may be,
They’ll not go up, nor will they stop
The dangers are before,
But still in blindness they do hope
Their dangers will be o’er. ^
Like Israel here do all appear, . , ^
/ "And o their fall will come ;
But when my batti e doth appear
They li find they cannot stand $
If they go on as they’ve begun,
Ih vanity to trust,
They’ll find no rock to build upon-^
Men’s wisdom must be cast.
I ne’er did clear men’s wisdom here*
Nor will I at the end;
For then my Bible all must err,
Should 1my Spirit send
From first to last, as it is plac’d,
If men in wisdom shine;
Then I d no need to visit here,
If tnen did know my mind ;
But they do not* mark what is wrote, .
I've told them all before,
No wisdom in themselves they’ve got
To know when l appear;
Nothing they’ve seen, nothing they’ve toown*
But judge their wisdom greatj
But I this wisdom shall unthrone^
If they will not submit
. To learn of me, 1 now tell thee;
Though men do prophesy * '
They know the calling’snot from ME,
And give thy pen the lie: f
Then let them come now in my name
, And answer to my word,
' W hat have you seen ? what have youknown.
To prbve it not from G od ?
Then where's the man that thus cancome
* And answer so to m e?
W ill they affirm a learned man ' ..
This prophet deep can be?
Digitized b
y
Google
B Z S K lH dRDEREB TO PB l IVER PARABLES.
Theti 1*11appear to answer here,
A prophet he must come:
But know my people he’ll make err,
The thing to me is known ;
From his own Spirit he must come*
And from it he’ll appear,
Profess himself a prophet strong
To know I am not here;
Then 1 shall come against the man,
And answer from my word :
Out of your mouth you prophesy,
But do not know your L ord
Pronoun’d you dead, as I have said,
Then what hath man to boast,
Thatdie can know what I shall do?
His wisdom must be cast.
So I’ll end here, and say no more;
But let men weigh it deep,
T he chapter through 1 bid them clears
If they can answer it;
If they cannot i’ll tell their lot,
Just like the end shall fall^
My people I’ll deliver here
Out of the hands of all.
Your vanity they all shall see,
How vain was all your trust, ,
Who nothing here had heard from ME,
But of your wisdom boast.
Here endedSunday night, Nov. 4, 1804.
Monday morning, Nov, 5.
Ezekiel xvii. 1— Son of man, put forth a riddle,
and speak a parable unto the house of Israel. Now
let the learned answer, why I ordered the prophet
to put forth a riddle, and speak a parable to the house
o f Israel ? If they judge it sin and blasphemy' to put
forth riddles now, then what do they understand
from the riddle to Ezekiel ? Let this be answered
by the learned, and I shall answer thee again. Now
let them answer Chapter xix. 2— W hat is thy mo­
ther ? a lioness: she laid down among lions, she
nourished her whelps among young lions. Now let
them weigh my prophets deep, and they will find
the parables I shewed to them, and ordered the
prophet to bring to them', are of the same nature,
3 A 2
D igitized by G o o g le
the same sense as the parables I have ordered thee
to put out to the world. Let them weigh deep
Chapter xxiii. 2— Son of man, there were two wo­
men, daughters of one mother, and they committed
w
horedomin Egypt—
Now when these chapters you’ve gone through
And brought the whole before your view,1
The parables that here are plac’d
Are just like thine, the end to bqrst;
As from the whoredom let them see
The meaning of the words to he,
And then the meaning that is thine, #
Thev’ll see the warning to mankind
Doth in like manner now appear;
So if you blame the Woman here,.
You’ll blame my prophets all before;
As in this land men do appear,
Thousands my Bible here c(o blame,
And put my prophets so to shame
As they do now shame all tfly word,.
And say can never come from God,
The simple parables thou’st penn’d.
But ’tis my Bible to defend
That I have brought it round the same, .
To shew ail those that mock my Namq»
They mock’d my Bible at the first,
And in like manner now I am bur$t
. To place the parables the same,
That in the end I all might shame *
For when thpy find thy ymtings true^
„ Such parables before their view,
’ And tney confess came all from God i
As in this land it shall be know'd
Thy every writings came from m e ,
And then the parables they’ll see,
^ How every thiug alike is plac’di
And thep discern, ye fallen race#
How I my Bibje clear this way—
I know what mockery in them lay,
And now I’m come to mock the whole,
And they shall find the truth to fall.
Like whoredom first I plac’d my word,
When they werfi wandering from the Lqrd*
And so like whoredom I’ve plac’d here
Thy parables to make all clear;
And so they’ll find it in the end
Like Burnet's story thou hast penn’d * ;
If like the lady they go on '
They’ll find her fatal end to ccune,.
So let none qeock thy fable here,
Though like a riddle’t may appear;
* See the Book published by Mr. Foley in the Autumn ofl$M |
jage 88.
979 TRUJS fiXPJ.AHATIOVa OP THE EXILE,
But *tis a riddle that goes deep.
If men go on to mock my sheep,
And say blind shepherds do appear,
They'11find their ratal end is near;
For like that lord 1 11 surely come,
And so their end it will be known
Much like the lady’s to abound:
The riddle deep for them is found,
Though well 1 know ’tis mock’d by mag.
But ’tis my Bible to discern,
The way I warn’d them at the first
The way the ending now shall burst.
So with my Bible I’ll go on
To bring tne mysteries out to m an;
So now my prophet ymi read through,
And then the mysteries you will know.
The way I first compar’d the whole,
The way I’ve said the end shall fall.
A WARNING TO THfi 6HEPHEBD8. 373
Ezekiel xxxiv. 2— Son of man, prophesy against
the shepherds— W oe be to the shepherds of Israel
that do feed themselves ! should not the shepherds »
feed the flocks ?
*How shepherds here can you appear ;
To answer my demand,
Apd prove my sheep you’re feeding here,
While you do silent stand ?
I tell you no; you’ll find it so ,'
My sheep are gone astray,
Which you yourselyes profess to know;
But tell me now which way
That they are gone, to you ’tis known}
W 111 you answer tis here,
Who judge the calling is of me,
Ana you will not appear
To call them back? Then see the stroke,
You must be cast this way.
If you say no ; it is not so,
’Tis other sheep we see
Arc wandering on, fVom me they are gone;
Then how will you appear
Whep you yourselves so lead them on
To tell them thou dost err?
Can the ✓ be free i then answer me,
Which wav they this will do ?
fo r ail must wnow, in blasphemy
Some thousands now do go,
As men blaspheme to hear my Name
Is written by thy hand ;
JtjlyBb'e many put to shame,
Then can my shepherds stand -
Digitized by Google
To say they are Free ih peace tobe,
Ne’er seek the truth to khow ?
I tell them this can never be,
And they will fijid it $6—
What at the last it here was plac’d,
As in my Bible penn’d,
Though at the first it now shall burst*
For this was my intends
All ages, see, were known to me,
vAnd so ] shall go on;
From ages past as all was plac’d,
And so the end will come,
Where I blame m an: Let it-be known,
That warning stands for all. „
So from the prophet you discern,
Ye shepherds^judge your call,
From what is said be not misled,
The chapters stand for Man \ >
at the first so now at last,
Then now discern my hand.
Now let.them weigh the chapter through and see
the threatenings there to the, shepherds for the,
neglect of the sheep; and let them weigh the past
with the present, and see the situafcr<5n qf the sheep
now ; how many thousand believers on the one
hand, and how many blaspheme on the o th e r; then
is it not for you shepherds to learn judgment, to
know wherein the truth lies, and to know wherein
the fault lies, that truth and righteousness may be
established in your land ? This is A command to
you, O shepherds 1 And now come to chapter xli.
The measuring of the tem ple; the breadth of
the d o o rs/th e side chambers ; the breadth of the
house. All this mark how it is penned, that every
thing was to be measured and formed ; the height,
the length, the breadth, the depth, how the build­
ings were to be formed. Then mark chapter xliii. 7
— And he said unto me, son of man, the place of
my throne, and the place of the soles of my feet,
where I will dwell in the 'midst of the children of
Israel for ever, and m y holy name shall the house
of Israel no more defile. Now—
* 7 4 TRtrE ixPtAJ^ATlOWS or tltE BIBXE.
Digitized by G o o g l e
Let this be answer’d by the learned
But 1 shall answer thee :
From this prophet none discern’d it,
For the ena these things must be,
Ezekiel here let men sec clear,
His prophecies go deep $
But ’tis the end that must them clear,
When all these visions break.
The chapters through no man does know r
They ail stand for the end,
When 1 these houses build below, '
And then ’tis my intend ,
For to come down and dwell with men,
And then my throne you’ll see,
How on it beie my feet will stand, v
And men shall dwell with me
In peace below, they all shall know
My namesdefil d no more. *
But where’s the learning man can shew,
It ever was done here ? ,
I tell you plain, you sons of men,
These things are ali to come ;
And now l tell you is the time
That ah is hastenmgon. '
, But there’s no mau on earth can com#
Tq twaseverso } . ‘
And if you say ’twill ne’er be done^
My Bible wrong must go:
But i'll appear to make it clear,
My liihle it is true-— .
' The time for ail is drawing near
That men shall find it so.
’ W hat’s said at first it now shall burst,
' My Bible shall come on ;
, You all shall see it in the last—
The measuring time is come:
In beauty here shall all appear, "
For I shall build all new,
Jerusalem’s low walls repair;
And men shall find it true,
The prophecies that here do lie .
Were ne’er fulfill’d before;
v Nor there’s no man on earth can say^
According to my word, ,
But Israels here, that 1 shall clear,
Are those' that judge their Lord *
In all is true before their view,
And all 1 shall fulfil. *
. Then here’s my throne, it shall be known.
Establish’d to my w ill; ‘
My feet with them shall surely come,
And they shall walk with me ; *
A.nd then they may discern my plan, ,
My. budding all shall see * ‘ *
-
THS VISION OF MSA$UKIK0 THE TEMPLE. 371
Digitized by Google
It shall appear in beauty here.
For I snail walk with men,
.And then I know- they’ll love and fi&r*
When Satan’s power is gone.
But how before can this appear ?
Men ne’er did worship me,
As in this chapter doth appear,
That I said it should be.
So where's the man on earth can come
To say ’twas ever so ?
And if you say ’twill not be done,
My Bible can’*
t be true.
So atiswer here to make all clear,
They way ’tis fix’d by Man ;
In stronger words Til then appear,
But I’ve left room for them
For to appear their ways to dear,
. The way that they’ll fulfil;-
And then behind they’ll surdy find-
Beyond their every skill .
1 shall appear the whole to clear,
And make it whole to man,
That in my Bible they do err,
/ They ne’er discern’d my plan,
W hat buildings here there will appear
W hen I complete the whole;
Nor how mankind will love and fear,
When strong my Spirit falls 5
My feet with them in glory come.
And my delight shall be,
I tell you, for to walk with men,
And men shall walk with Me;
So new my Bible I call forth,
For men tojudge the sound,
That all may see the prophecies
Are in my Bible founa.”
Thus fa r are the E xplanations of t h e B ible gioen ti
Joanna before she was ordered to leave B ristol, •which was on No*
vetiiber229 1804%
Continuation o f Ezekiel.
London* M arch 5, 1805,
*Here I ended from the Spirit, and read Ezekiel
through, b ut could not understand a word I read.
So it goes through to the end, of the building of the
house, the temples, the sanctuary, and the manner
itwas-to be kept, which I by no means could under*
stand. Chapter xliv. “
2—
-Then said. the Lord unto
m e ; this gate shall be shut, it shall not be opened,
3 7 6 THtTE EXPLANATIONS OP THE IflBLE/
t . ‘ Digitized by Google
' OATS O
P THE O
UTW
ARD SANCTUARY SHUT. 377
jm>man shall enter in by it; because the Lord, the God
o f Israel, hath entered in by it, therefore it shall be
•hut. Here appear mysteries to me, how men can
take it upon them to affirm that the Bible is so easy
and plain to be understood. I know it is a thing impos­
sible for any man upon earth .to explain the meaning
of the chapter, or the verse, that I have mentioned.
“ Now I shall answer thee, the meaning of the
verse, thou sayest it is im p o sb 'e for man to an-,
swer ; and I tell thee it is impossible forvany man by
learning to explain mystery of my Bible, which,
I shall begin from the verse thou hast m entioned:
T h e outward sanctuary that is shut is the outward
ordinances of man, it is the wisdom of man; it was
shut from the Je w s , and they never could enter in
by their wisdv... nor by their understanding; for
when I ent. md into the world I"was unknown to
them that tiusted to their outward forms ; therefore.
I condemned them in my Gospel, for being strict
observers of the ordinances of man, but neglecting
the ordinances of God. Now mark, from my Gos­
pel, how the Jews were shut out, that trusted to
their own wisdom; and how they are shut out to
this day, from believing in the way that the Lord
o f life and glory came into the world for the Salva­
tion of Man. Now to mark the second verse you
must deeply weigh the first; it is the outward sanc­
tuary that was shut, that I said should not be
opened, and no man should enter in by it. Now.
let the wise and learned appear and answer me from
m y Gospel, whether the Jews came in by faith, or
by khowledge ? Thou answerest, the Jews that be­
lieved came in by faith ; but the Jews, that stai d out
through unbelief are those that trust to their own
wisdom, their own knowledge, and understanding,
which they have drawn from the prophets: they look;
to the laws of Moses, but not to the laws of C hrist;
then I tell thee, here is the outward sanctuary that is
shut; and it is not open to them, neither shall it
3 B
* . Digitized by Google
eyer be opened by their wisdom. And now I coma
to the Gospel: the outwardsanctuary is the wisdomof
pian, as much under the G ospel as the wisdom if
the Jews was under the l a w : and they that trust to
theft- pwn wisdom, that they know enough of them­
selves, without my Spirit to direct them, will be as
much shut out as the Jews were ; for my coming is
fcpt by the' outward wisdom of man, but by the in­
ward working of Gopi Know what I have said in
niy Gospel, and what I said to my disciples : It was
my Spirit must be within them, and it was my Fa­
ther that spoke within them, and from. H im the
HjoLY Ghost the Comforter should come, to
bring all things to their remembrance. Now I tell
thee it was by shutting up the wisdom of man that I
came into the world, and went through all my offices,
to die for the transgression of man, which could not
have been if their wisdom, had not been shut up; fey
then they must opetdy and knowingly have crucified
the luonis of life and glory. N ow I ask. them
how I could die for men, or how 1 could justify that
m y Death should be for their redemption, if they
had been like the devil and fallen angels, knowing
whom they had crucifiedf Then with them they
tnust-pepish; but here Satan’s arts, as in the beginning,
worked in men to trust to their own wisdom, that he
had tilled them up with ; therefore their guilt in the
end must fall on Satan's head, who worked on them
to slriit them out. But now I have shewed1thee of
the Gospel, and of the J ews, how l came in that
way to fulfil my office to die for man, I shall come
to the end : It is by the unbelief of men, who trust
to their own wisdom, that they will be shut out, and
my Gospel fulfilled ; for my Second Coming, which
is left on record, foretells the unbelief that will be
in mankind : and this is the way my Second Coming
wili be ; but as the wisdom of the Jews shut them out
at first, so will the wisdom of th,e Gentiles shut them
put 0 fastf that thpy will ftaye no share pr lot ip the
3^8 TRUE EXPLANATIONS OF TH E B IB LE,
t ' Digitized by Google
CONCERNING I ’riE H feA llN G OP THfi WATERS* 3 ? 9
thatter, when I come to direct all my buildings to
m art.— Know the prophet was directed by me, how
he should build every thing, and hoW every thing
should stand; but mark the end of the prophecy
after the directions are gone through, the last verse
o f the prophet^alid the name of the city from that
day shall be the Lord- is there. Now mark
chapter xlvii. 7, 8—On the bank of the river were
m any trees. These waters issue out toward the
east country, and go down into the desert, and go
into the sea: which being brought forth into the
sea, the waters shall be healed. See the remarks
made by man, the remark of man made to the verse
refers you to Deuteronomy iii. 17—The plain also, and
Jordan, and the coast thereof, from Chinriereth even
unto the sea of the plain, even theSaltSea. ' Now I
shall answer thee from the observation of man i what
hath that verse to do with the healing of the'waters ?
N either doth man understand .what the healing of
the waters meaneth ; thou hast seen where it is al­
luded to by the wisdom of m an; but I shall tell
thee where it alludes to by the wisdom of G od:
Revelation xxii. 17—And whosoever will, let him
take the water of life freely. Now I tell thee, when
the waters are. healed, that they are called the living
waters ; the meaning is, Man must be healed. Know
what is said in my Gospel— I was a well of living
water; and he that drank thereof should thirst no
more. Now I.tell thee, the healing of the waters is
the healing of the nations: for as the floods caused
dirty water, so doth Satan cause the hearts of men ;
and as the storms and tempests come by floods to
bring them on, so do the storms and tempests
that the devil worketh in every heart, one against
the other, bring on the tempest on m a n w a r s and
tumults, malice and envy, discord and cruelty, and
every evil that is amongst mankind, are compared to
storms and tempests, to the raging sea that foameth
3 B 2
Digitized by Google
up mire and dirt, and to the great waterfloods.
Now let men answer when this was healed, that your
peace was as a steady river and a pure stream ? I tell
thee never: the waters were never healed from being
liable to all its furious storms and tempests'; mirer
and-dirt, are often seen in the floods of water, per­
fectly so are the floods of men’s lives ; compare the
one with the other, and all must own it is true.
Now mark from these chapters of Ezekiel, how he
is directed" to go on with his buildings; bpt were his
buildings accomplished there? D id men’s sorrows
cease there? Have not seas of sorrow overwhelmed
them, after the days of the prophet ? Then how
can man allude the words of the prophet to the
times that are past ? I tell thee, No.—
Seas of sorrow and seas of sin
In every age, I say, have been;
And from the ages all may see
The perfect truth is spoke by Mfe,
‘ That what was said hath not been done,
The healing waters are not come ;•
But from the chapters alt may see
The way the end for all will be,
That now obey my every word,
And be directed by their Lord.
T he prophet was a type for man, i
To shew the end how all would come; ^
x But Jet-the learned men-appear
» And tell me how -the house stood there,
Or all these buildings to go through?
’Tis more than can be done by you,
I tell you plain, *ye 90ns of men ;
For now to reason I’ll begin:
The outward sanctuary was cast
For to be shut, then judge the last;
For if ’twas shut, I answer here,
By it there’s no man can appear, ^
I say, to enter in with me.
* The gate is shut, you all shall see,
As with the Jews doth now appear-** '
’Tis time for every land to fear;
For they will be shut out the same
That boast the wisdom of their own;
But they shail know that 1 am God,
And by me shall my Bock be led.
For now my Bible I’ll go through,
And bring it all before your view;
380 TRUE EXPLANATIONS OF TH E BIBLE*
Digitized by Google
HOW MAN IS SHUT OUT OF THE IN N ER COURT. 3 3 )
~ The Law and Gospel must appear— ^
The measuring times for man draw near*
For I shall come to measure all,
And strong my Bible forth 1^1 call,
And I will now appeal to man,
When I the prince of peace did come,
And men delight to walk with me ?
The knowledge of the Lord, you say,
. Doth in my Bible so appear *
That all the earth must cover here;
But I do ask when this was done ?
You boast my Bible you discern,
While you are blind and cannot see
That all men must be taught of me j
. Then if of me they must be taught
The outer court must sure be shut;
That is the outwardfaith of man,
That never will discern my plan;
That is my Bible to go through,
And bring the whole before your view,
- And then you’ll own^it is by me
The inner court you all must see,
It is by me must be brought in,
It never can be done by man;
If so my Bible all must lie—
You want no knowledge from on high; v
Then how my Bible will it stand > .
To give your answers 1 command:
If you as earthly gods do shine,
And want no knowledge that is mine,
But what is left upon record;
Then tell me how you’ll know your Lord,
Or how my Bible you’ll go through,
To prove to man the whole is true ?
But thou dost answer now for man—
They judge the truth will never come,
That all the earth will so know me— -
Then th e re ’s the gate shut out must be,
The sanctuary is.of men,
That preach my Gospel by their plan,
* And by their wisdom make it good, /
While they deny my every W ord,
That I in Spirit here shall come, •
And my delight shall be with men,
To tell them all what they shall dp. '
The prophet’s words betore their view
Were put a shadow then tor men, •
, To shew them how the end would come:
When I the waters heal them all,
No more shall storms or tempests fall, *
" No more the raging floods shall come,
When I have heal’d the whole for man $
I’ll heal their sorrows and their sin,
I ’ll heal the rage of hell within y ,
Digitized by Google
3 8 2 TRUE EXPLANATIONS OT THE BlBtR#
* For I shall cast him in the sea, „
Where he no more in man shall lay;
For I shall heal the every storm
That he doth work to bring on man,
Like floods and tempests to appear}
I’ll cease the raging sword of war,
/ And all the raging floods bring low*
1 11 heal the waters, all shall know,
And then they’d say the I*ord is here,
And every stream of water clear. »
But can these things be done by men,
By any way they’ve laid their plan.
While every heart in man I see
Just like the water floodsthey be,
And every flood in therfi appear
Against my Spirit they are here? v
Then how the waters will they heal ?
No, no ; my Spirit they conceal,
To keep it back from every man: \
They wish to hide the fervent Sun, .
And they themselves as gods appear*
Like raging seas men’s hearts are here,
Like foaming billows they are toss'd,
Yet of my Bible still they boast, ^
I tell them, like the Jews before,
And like the Jews they all will err,
Till I begin to shut them o u t«
That strong against me do dispute.
For all their preaching I do hear, '
They’ll know my Eye is every where;
( The heavens no curtain are to me
To blind my Eyes l cannot see}
Nor am I wanting of a guard,
Your words nor waysvcannot be heard,
No, no; your preaching I do know *
Your sanctuaries 1 shall shew,
Where men do go and trust in men
V To hear the words that come from them, •
And in their words you put your trust;
But know the Jews that way were cast}
Because they put their trust in man,
-You know, the gate was shut to them,
And is not open to this day:
You see them restless as the sea,
Toss’d to and fro from land to land; .
- Can they the inner court command?
They would not enter in with me,
And now shut out they surely b e; .
^ Then now let all men warning take}
J For if 1 shut the outer gate, ,
That now will stand in Adam’s Fall, f
(The type is deep, I tell you all,)
Then to the inner you’ll not comQ
To have your God direct you on*
Digitized by Google
. -Then sure with man you may appear—
But can you *heal the water here,
That’s like a flood in every land ? ,
T h e raging wars can you command? ' 1
The raging seas can you now still ?
The raging hearts can you now quell?
That is, the raging passions heal ?
I tell you, men, your strength would fajl,
And all your wisdom be shut out,
Though with my Bible you dispute,
To say thete is enough to see
T h e every mind and will of m e ;
But what you see you’ll not believe,
And so my Snjrit still you grieve; *
Then of my jVfcpJo not boast,
To say therein you put your trust;
I tell A aplain, ye sons of men,
You praKh my 6 ospel now in vain; ,
Because my Gospel cannot stand
If you deny the prophet’s hand t
. For them 1said I’d all fulfil
Now let the learned men stand still:
pid I deny the prophet’s words,
And say ’tvvas false upon record?
No: this was not denied by m e; ,
T he prophet’s words I then did say .
That every one l should fulfil. t
So judge my prophets as you will,
Firm as the heavens their word shall stand,
And 1 will be a light to men,
Till they’re enlightened so by me
That they the prophet’s words can see,
The way I shall fulfil the whole, *
And man I’ll free from Adam’s Fall,
- • . -•. That-now will-enter in with me : -
The outer gate, you all shall see, *
It is the •wisdom hiTe of mon,— '
Now mark the Fall, and /then discern
How I at first pronounc’d man dead;
* Then how by man can you be led
Ever to enter in with me ?
. No: ’tis my Spirit, all must see,
That J'ou must own to lead you on
Till to the standard all do corue;
That is the standard of my word;
And then you’ll own the living Lord
W ill in my temple so appear, *
And man my voice shall surely hear_
That is my Spirit to direct,
‘ As I've directed thee ;
And then my followers [’ll prefect
Till tfiey shall all agree *
• J o say the waters [ have heal’d,
The buildings do appear,
FULFILMENT .OF THE VISION OF THE TEMPLE. aS3
Digitized by Google
My prophets they have never fail'd,
And own the Lord is here. «
•
For heire I’ll come in Spirit strong,
And my delight .shall be f
To dwell with men that now will come
And hear what 1 do say.
So from Ezekiel now discern
Words ne’er were understood,
The way nor manner l did warn;
But now t’li make them good.
So if my Bible you do know
, I bid men it explain
But on my Spirit it slfall go >
To lead thee to the etidak
And when mv Bible P w l^ n t through*
To make the mysteries e le a r,^ ^ #
And brought the whole before t^^Pview,
Theu let men answer here
The way that they will all explain,
To make my Bible good.
I know the reasoning thoughts of men,
The'way 'tis understood—
But I'll end here and say no more,
But to the purpose come;
Another day I shall appear
To answer thee again,*’
3 8 4 . TltUri EXPLANATIONS OP THE BIBLE*
T h e s e E x p l a n a t io n s o f t h e B ib l ^ a re continued in the
F i f t h Pa r t ,
1 L O N D O N :
POINTED BY s/R 0 USSEAU, WOOD STREET, SPA FIELDS;
- And sold bit E. J. Field, N o.'Q, High Street, St. Giles's, two Doors
from 1he Angel Inn ; E.'Carpenter, Meeting-house, Newington
Jlutts, ?jeir the Elephant and CastU ; C. ABBOTT, East End ofOld
Street; Also lit W. Symonds, Ciii'd// Lane; the Mrss Eveleighs,
St. Sidveil's, Exeter ; -and Mli. Chi lp, Stourbridge, Worcestershire*
■' \ 10 n G1 ,
[Price Eighteen Pence,}
Digitized by Google
