{"name":"Magic Pretended Miracles","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1799__anonymous___magic_pretended_miracles.pdf","mytitle":"Magic Pretended Miracles","mylang":"de"}
MAG IC,
_..
,,,,,-
PRE T .
ENDED MIR ACLES,.-
AND
REMARKABLE
NA TURAL PH ENOMENA.
REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS;
Digiti:z by
OR,
ILLUSTRATIONS
OFPOPULAR
ERRORS.
r,,.i.
,,.
..
v·
LONDON:
THE RELIGIOUS TRACT SOCIETY:
I'Mtituted 1799.
56, PATERNOSTBR ROW, 65, ST. PAUL'S CHUUCHYAH.D,
AND 164, PICCA DILLY.
1? ' i
.'\}
- - ~ ------ - -- - · --·- --- -- ·---- -- -· ·· -- - -
-
o.1r:,r01 'Tbm
INDIANA UNIVERSrTY
\\ "
\
.~ ..
l
'
~
'
,
~
Di itiz by Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
CONTENTS.
CHAPrBR I,
PAGB
Themagi of the eaat-Magical powerattributed to num-
ben, planta,and minerals • • • . • • 5
CHAPl'ER lt.
Feata ot moderu magician-Their wonden explained--
~be 1nake-cbarmers of India ~A Chinese deluaion-
•·i·uemagician of Cairo • • • 10
CHAPrER III.
M.. _.,considered magical in ancienttimes-Remark-
able modern automata-Minute engines-The calcu-
lating machine • 80
CHAFFER IV.
Terree~· al henomena-Footmarka onrocks-The Logan
atone- unda in stones-The cave of St. Paul-
Atm rical pbenomena-Intermitting aprlnge-
Wat'ere
of magical power . . . . • • •1
CHAPTER Y.
Chemical woliden- lee obtained in a red-hot vesael-
The corpeecandles of Wales-Luminous appearances
after death-Sadoomeb the magician-The laughing
gas-Sulphuric ether-Chloroform-Gunpowder com-
pared with gun-cotton • • • • • • • 62
CHAFFER VI.
Light and lta ph911omena-Magic pictures-The optical
paradox-Cllinese metallic mirrors-Eff'ect of an optical
Jnatrument on a superstitious mind-Origin of photo-
graphy-The Talbotype-The Daguerreotype- Sun-
1ig1it picture, • • • . • • • • • S7
A2
Di itiz by
Or1QI
r01 'rom
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
iv CONTENTS.
CHAPTER VII.
. PAOB
Heatz the cause of many wonders-Its unh·ersal diffusion
ana application-Story of a burning-glass-The Au-
gustine friars and the Jesuits-Impostures as to the
endurance of heat-Burning mirrors-The blow-pipe
-The Giants' Causeway-Application of currents of
heated air-Travelling by steam • • • • • 107
CHAPrER VIII.
The magic swan-Properties of the magnet-The mari-
ners' compass-Process of magnetizing-1'he dip of
the needle-Magnetic propertt es in v~rioussubstances 124
CHAFFER IX.
The electrical kite-Candles magi_cally lighted - St.
Elmo's fire-The chronoscope-The electric clock-
The electric telegraph-Sub-marine telegraphs-The
overruling providence of God • • • • . 133
CHAPTER X.
Claims of the church of Rome to miracutouspower- rlh!
Franciscans and Domiuiclma-Tale of bishop Remi-
The effect of relics- Friars' pretended dispossession ot
evil spirits-Tragical event-Appearance of the ,irgin
Mary to shepherds exposed-Pretended miracle of the
Greek cbu1·ch • • • • • • • • • 16-&
CHAP'FER XI.
Real amiracles-A miracle defined by rchbishop Tillot-
son-The miracles of Moses-The miracles of our Lord
Jesus Christ-The miracles of the apostles-Collision
with those who pretended to supernatural power-'fhP
✓magicians of Egypt-Magical arts at Ephesus-The
miraculous power of tbe Saviour inherent, that of the
prophets and apostles derived-Cessation of miracu-
lous gifts • • • • • • • • 181
Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
r
'
i i itiz by Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
- --- -- --- - -- - --
SNAKE CBAll.MERS OF INDIA.
---- - -- - - - -- - - -- ---- - - -
Digitized 1::1
Go gle
I
l-
I
'
0!1glM 'mm
INDIA~ UNIVERSfTY
Di itiz by
l\fAGIC, PRETENDED MIRACLES,
•
CHAPTER L
The magi of the eaat-Magical ~er attributed to
numbers, plants, and minerals.
THE magi formed one of the six tribes into
~·which the nation of the Medes was divided in
I ancient times. To them was entrusted the
specialcharge of religion; and, as priests, they
were superior in education and training to the
peoplein general. Among the Persians, "the
lovers of wisdom and the servants of God"
were, according to Suidas, called magi. It
seems also, that they extended themselves into
other lands, and that among the Chaldeans
they were an organized body.
' We read in the inspired book of Daniel,~
"the magi," or "wise men," among whom t
prophet himself was classed; and others, w
know, directed by " the star in the ('ast," went
to the infant Saviour, when born, at Bethlehem,
" as Christ the Lord," and presented to him
their offerings, "gold, and frankincense, and
myrrh." Among the Greeks and Romans, the
Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
6 .MAGIC.
same c~assof persons was styled Chaldeans and
.
magi.
For a time, the magi surpassed the .rest of ·
the world in knowledge, and were the friends,
companions, and counsellors, of its mightiest
sovereigns. But their $cie!lce, from having
no solid basis, sank, after a while, into in-
significance. On the _
ruins of its reputation
·other persons sought to build theirs. A man
who.knew, or could perform some things, with
,which others h~d no acquajnt;a.nce,or for which
·they had no power, announced himself as a
magician. Npr w~r~
th~ peop1t='
indisposed to
concede to him the credit he desired, espe-
cially .if he claimed alliance with spiritual
beings'; and, in not a few instances, they a~
tributed his n1arvels to suoh agenoy. Thus,
·then, the magician may be tl'aOedt9 the magua,
or IIJ.agian; and ~agio, to the so"oall~ philo-
sophy of the east. ·
Magic squares are of great antiquity. A
square of this kind is divided into several other
small equal squares, or cells,filled u~ with the
terms of any progression of numbers, but
generally an arithmetical one; so that those
· each band, whet~er hoi-izontal, vertical, or
iagonal, shall always make the· s~e sum.
The ancients ascribed to them gr.eat virtues;
· and the disposition of numl>era formed the
basis and principle ~f many of their talismans.
According Iy, a square of ·one cell, filled up
with unity, ,vas the symbol of the Deity, on
account of the unity and imrqutability of God;
Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
7
for they remarked that this· square· was, by its
nature, unique and immutable; the product of
unitr by itself being always unity. The
square of the root two, was the symbol of im-
perfeot matter, both on account of the four
elements, and of its being supposed impossible t,o
arrange this square magically. A square of nine
oellawas assigned or consecrated to Saturn; that
of sixteen t,oJupiter; that oftwenty-fiveto Mars;
that of thirty-six t.o the sun; that of forty-~ine
to Venus; that of 1ixty-four to Mercury; and
tllat of eighty-one, or nine on each side, to the
moon. Those whp can find any relation be-
tween two planets, and such an arrangement of
numbers, must have minds strongly tinctured
with.superstition; yet so it was in the mysterious
,_ phil08ophy of lamblichus, Porphyry, and their
di1eiples.
Plana,, as well as numbers, were long con-
sidered. to be endowed with magical properties.
Pliny enumerates those which, according t,o
Pythagoras, were supposed to have the power
of concealing waters. To others were attri-
but,ed extraordinary effects. The asyritea,as
it was denomihated by the Egyptians, was
usecl under the idea that it acted as a
fence against witchcraft ; and the nepentk
which Helen presented, in a potion, to Me~e..· .·
laus, was believed, by the same people, to be
powerful in banishing sadness, and in restoring
the mind to its accustomed, or even to greater
e11eerfulness. Whatever may be th~ virtues of
IUCh
Jterbs; they were used rather from an
Di itiz by Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
8
idea of their magical than of their medicinal
qualities; every cure was cunningly ascribed
to some mysterious and occult power.
From the same superstition, metals and
stones were supposed to be endowed with sin-
gular virtues: the opal, to grow pale at the
touch of poison; the emerald, to remove intoxi-
cation; and the carbuncle, " only to be found
in the head of the dragon, the hideous inhabit-
ant of the island of Ceylon," to shine in the
darkness. As the metal called gold always
bore the highest value, it was concluded, from
an absurd analogy, that its power to preserve
health and cure disease must likewise surpass
that of all other applications. Multitudes gave
themselves to busy idleness in atteplpting to
render it potable, and to prevent it from again
being converted into metal. Not only did they
labour in obscure situations, but in the splendid
laboratories of nobles· and. sovereigns. ?.fen
of rank, impelled by one common frenzy,
forn1ed secret alliances; and even proceeded to
such extravagance as to bring ruinous debts on
themselves and their posterity. The object of
which they were in pursuit was " an elixir of
"
n Italy, Germany, France, and other
countries, the common people often denied
themselves the necessaries of life, to save as
much as would purchase a few drops of the
tincture of gold, which was superstitiously or
fraudulently offered for sale. So fully did they
eonfidein the efficacy
of this imaginarypower,
Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz f
)IAQIC POWER OF MINERALS.
LLat on it generally depended their only ho
of recovery. Positively was the desired ho
promised, but only to mock expectation. O·
times are in the hands of God; and at his w
the -dust returns to the dust ·from whence
was taken, and the spirit to him who gave it.
How fearful was the ignorance that prevailc
in the bygone times to which a reference 11:
been made! -What gratitude should we feel fi
the advantages we enjoy! Let us, then, co1
stantly remember that _asto ua ~uch has beE
given, so of us much will be required; and th~
one kind of knowledge surpasses all othen
"This" said the adorable Redeemer, "is li1
eternai that they might kno,v thee the onl
trne God,
and Je~P ..
"18 C1'rh-t:whom thou hm
sent." John xvii. 8.
g
Of1Qlr01 'rom
INDIANA. UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
CHAPTER II.
Peats of modern magician&:-Their wonden ~lained-The
snake-charmersof India-A Chinese delusion-The magi-
cian of Cairo.
WONDER-WORKERS have often appeared. Some
of them ·have lately repeated their most re-
markable feats in London and various places in
England, varied by others of inferior interest.
Large and astonished assemblies have witnessed
their performance, and public journals have
described them as absolut;ely "inexplicable."
And yet, though the writer has no personal
acquaintance with any modern " magician," he
has no doubt that all their feats may be ac-
counted for, from sleight-of-hand, confederacy,
ingenious contrivance, or the application ot
some natural law. A few illustrations shall
now be given.
Many delusions are entirely dependent on
sleight-of-hand; a rapidity of manipulation
being attained by long practice, as in the mar-
vellous movements of the fingers of a highly
accomplished instrumenta! performer; while the
power may become so great as to defy the
Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
ILLUSIONS EXPLAINED~
observation of the acutest vision. The late
Mr. Walker, minister at Demattar, in the
Mears, told sir Walter Scott of a young
country girl, wlio threw turf, 1tone1, and other
misailes, with such dexteritl, that it was, for a
time, impossible to ascertain the agency em-
ployed in the dia~rbanoea of which ahe was
the aole cause.
A friend of the writer has a remarkable nicety
of touch, and, at pleasure, a rapid movement of
the hands, by which he can rival many magical
feats. Thus he conveys balls under cups, and
appears to change them into fruit, to the
astonishment of lookers-on. He also takea two
horn cups of exactly the same size, and pro-
- duces the impression that he cauaea one to fall
through the other, when this is impossible, and
all that is done is effected by dexterous and
rapid manipulation, illustrating the proverb,
"The hand is quicker than the eye."
Many astounding feats, which form a part of
all popular magical exhibitions, are performed
\ by this l~::!1-~~n. Apparently, the per-
) former receiv~ a lady's wedding.ring and
breaks it in piecea; burns a :five-pound note
handed to him by a spectator ; reduces a hat
to a hideous shape; or crushes a bonnet into
fragments, and then restorea them uninjured ro
the respective parties, amidst the acclamations
of ~e multitude. But all that is done is with
indescribable rapidity to substitute articles of
his own to undergo the process of destruc-
tion, and, at the right moment, to exhibit thos,
Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
12 MAGIC.
which have been presented by the spectators,
and are preserved in safety.
Another cause of wonderment is confederacy.
A modem performer has been accustomed to
hand a box to one of his audience, requesting
that in it might be placed any article that he
had, and,that it might be passed on from one
to another for the same purpose. While this
has been done, he has proceeded to his table,
and apparently waited the filling of the box.
At length, while the box has been held up at a
.distance, he has· placed his rod to his eye and
described the collection that has been made.
He has said, perhaps, " I can see in that box a
.piece of ribbon, a lozenge, a few grains, ,part, I
dare say, of a pinch of snuff, and a lady's card;
I will try and read it~Miss - Clara - Hen-
derson;" t.LdBD .hepasc;esthrough the chief part
of the series. And yet, as his patrons look on
with astonishment, they do not think of what
is most likely to be the fact, that a confederate,
sitting as one of the audience, made a list of
the articles as they were deposited in the box,
and despatched it in portions or altogether, so
that their names might reach the eye of the
performer from some part Qfhis table.
A third means of wonder-working is that of
ingeniouscontrivance. We will illustrate this
by two popular feats. A number of handker-
chiefs. taken from the audience by more than
one popular performer, were placed in a emall
washing-tub, into which water was poured, and
they were washed for a few minutes. They
Di itiz by Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
ILLUSIONSEXPLAINED. 13
were then placed in a vessel like the figure,
below, and immediately
afterwards the performer
said to the persons in
front : " I will give you
these;" and taking off
the top, when he was
expected to throw out
the wet handkerchiefs,
all that fell was a num-
ber of flowers. He now
brought out abox, which
he opened, and showed
it to be empty ; then
shutting it, and uttering
a few cabalistic words,
he opened it again, and
there were the handker-
chiefs, all dry, folded,
and scented, which he
distributed to their re-
spective claimants.
Another experiment of a popular perforn1er
.was called "coffee for the million." Producing
a vessel like the diagram A ;
the performer filled it with un-
ground coffee, and placing it
under a cover n, he said," There,
when you have done that, let it
simmer for three-quarters-of-an
hour ; but, perhaps, you will
not like to wait so long ; here A
Digitizedby Go gle 0!1glM 'mm
INDIA~ UNIVERSfTY
11 MAGIC.
then it is;" and on removing
the cover, the vessel appeared
full of hot ·liquid coffee. In
another vessel of the same
kind he obtained lump-sugar
~ from rape-seed; and in a third,
~ warm mil~ from horse-beans;
, and pouring out the cqff~e
-=- into cups, sent them round to
regale l}is auditory; amidst
:a their loud and approving
shouts at so gNUtta transformation.
As these feats are the •result of considerable
ingenuity, it le probable that the devices em--
played would not readily occur to spectators in
general, while they would utterly escape those
whose object is merely amusement, and w~o,.if
they thought at all, would be likely to describe
the result as supernatural. We proceed, ~hen1
to the unravellh1g of the mystery. Let 1t be
observed, in reference to the first experiment,
that .a number of handkerchiefs are collected in
•·the early part of the evening for various illu-
sions, and that many of them appear for a time
on the performer's table. Provided with a
collection of these articles~ from the handsome
silk handkerchief to one trimmed with lace,
used by a fashionable lady, he could easily
substitute his own of the same kind for those of
his n.uditory, as the curtain falls, according to
the arrangements of the evening, between the
collection of the hand.kerchiefs and. the subse-
quent process. His own handkerchiefs, there-
Digitized1::1
Go gle 0!1glM 'mm
INDIA~ UNIVERSfTY
ILLUSIONS EXPLAINED. 15
fore, ~e washed and placed in the vase already
- described; and tl1e so-called change into Rowers
is nothing more than
the r~tention of · the
handkerchiefs in the
lower pa~ 9f the appa-
ratus, whbln the figure
illustratefi, while the
upper 1>'1fibtllds the
flowers till they are
scattered. ifttofig the
spectatoti 1 M&ltttwhile,
a~l th~t Ji~ ~\\ired is
done to thelfftt\ttdkcr-
chiefs. t, li ft@tabso-
lutely llHissiey that
they shtt\lld b@washed;
for folding; pNssing,
and a little ·ea\i;;de-Co-
logne, would tiomplete --~~
the ptepELtatit>~
; but ~
granting that ~heyare -
,vashed, ther'e ls still no
difficulty* though this
mystifies the specta-
tors, who havethe idea
that dryingis a long affair; for it may be
effected in a minute or two by a -machine
that is readily obtained. The .bqx brought
out has .them dep<>sited in it, but as it is
ctotib]e,
·
oiie interior ·is first shown, which, of
course, contains nothing, fer the inner drawer
holding the handkerchiefs remains in the case;
Digitized1::1
Go gle 0!1glM 'mm
INDIA~ UNIVERSfTY
lu
but when a fe,v sounds are uttered and the
professor touches a secret spring behind, which
disengages the inner box, he draws it out with
the outer one ; and presents the handkerchiefs
to the audience. In the diagram A, the box i1
shown as empty. At B, we have a representa-
tion of the box containing the handkerchi~s.
Digitizedby Go gle 0!1glM 'mm
INDIA~ UNIVERSfTY
•
I •
ILLUSIONS EXPLAINED. 17
It is only necessary to add, that the box is very
nicely made; the part within the other, drawn
out to ttie end, defies detection.
· The preparation of coffee, milk, and sugar,
may be easily explained; for if the vessels con-
taining respectively the unground coffee, the
rape-seed, and t}:le horse-beans, always placed
under a cover, be put on a part of the table
.
k- -
--
.....z__.2:::-..
having a circular trap-door-and for this there
is full provision in the cover of the table ex-
Digitized1::1
Go gle 0!1glM 'mm
INDIA~ UNIVERSfTY
Di itiz by
MAGIC.
tending to the floor-a confederate may readily
substitute one for the other.
· The Rev. W. Arthur, in his work on the
~ysore, directs us to results of a different kind:
-" Whilst walki~g in the verandah," he says,
" some snake-charmers approached, and forth-
with began to show us their skill. They pro-
duced several bags and basket,9, containing
serpents of the most poisonous kind-the cobra
di capello; then blew upon an instrument
shaped like a cocoa-nut, with a short tube
inserted, and producing music closely allied to
that of the bag-pipe. The animals were brought
forth, raised themselves to the music, spread
out their head, showing tha spectacle mask
fully distended; and waved about with consi-
derable grace, and liUle appearance of venom.
The men coquetted '#lth them, and coiled them
about their persons, without anysign of either
dislike or fear. . This powerDi dealing with
creatures so deadly ia ascribed by the natives
to magic. Europeat11 generall7 aooount for it
by saying that the fang, are extttieted. But
the most reasonable explanation •emnsto be,
that when the 1nak1 is fint caught, by a
dexterous movem@ttit)fthe charmer, the hand
is slipped along the body,until it reaches the
neck, which he presses so firmly, as to compel
an ejection of the virus; thus destroying, for a
time, all power to harm; and tl1at this opera-
tion is repeated as often as is necessary, to
prevent the dangerous accumulation. If this
be true-and I believe it is-nothing ia n~
Or1QI
r01 'rom
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
SERPENT CHARMING. 19
mryto the safe haildling of these reptiles, buc
a knowledge of the laws which regulate the
venomous secretion. The wonder seems to lie
in the power they possess of attrac,ting the
makea by their rude music, abd"'seiz~ them
in the first instance. But enough is known to
111ake
it evident that, in what all natives and
many Europeans regard as mysterio\18 and
magical, there ii nothin~ but experience, tact,
and courage."
A strange and repulsive feat is thus described
by the. Rev. G. Smith, in his recent work on
" China"" " Aquei conducted us into a. room,
where be was sitting with his two wives, hand-.
somelyattired, looking from a window on the
cro-wd assembled in the street to witne88 the
performances of. a native .juggler. The latter,
after haranguing the crowd with much anima-
tion in the Nanking dialect, (aa is usual with
actors,) proceeded to one part of the crowd,
and took thence a child, apparently five or six
yearsold, who, with struggling reaistance, was
led into the oentre of the circle. The man
then• with impassioned gesture, violently threw
the child on a wooden stool, and, placing him
on his back, flourished over him a large knife;
the child all the time sobbing and crying as if
from fright. Two or three older men from the
crowd approached, with earnest remonstrancea
against the threatened deed of violence. For a
tim~, he desisted, but, soon after, returning to
the child, who was still uttering most pitiable
cries, he place~ him with his .back upwards,
Di itiz by Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
and, notwithstanding the violent prote.stsof the
seniors, he suddenly dashed the knife into the
back of the child's neck, which it appeared to
enter till it had almost divided it from ·the
head; the blood meanwhile flowing copiously
from the wound, and streaming to the ground,
and over the hands of the man. The struggle
of the child grew more and more feeble, and at
last altogether ceased. The man then arose,
leaving the knife firmly fixed in the child's
neck. Copper cashwas then thrown liberally
into the ring, for the benefit of the principal
actors. These were collected by assistants, all
of them viewing the influx of the coins with
great deligQt, and bowing continually to· the
spectators, and reit,erating the words, ' To
seoz,' 'Many thanks.' After a time, the man
proceeded towards the corpse, pronounced a
tew words, took away the ·knife, and called
aloud to the child. Soon there appeared the
signs of returning animation. The stiffness of
death gradually relaxed, and at last he stood
up among the eager crowd, who closed around
• him, and bountifully rewarded him with cash.
The performance was evidently one which ex-
cited delight in the bystanders, who, by their
continued shouts, showed their approbation of
the acting."
It is almost superfluous to add, that the
deception consisted in the construct.ion of the
blade and the handle of the knife, so that, by
making a sawing motion on the throat of the
child, a stream of coloured liquid, resembling
Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
ABD-EL-KADER. 21
blood, is pun1ped out ; a little acting on the
part of the performer and the child is amply
sufficient for all the rest.
Within the last few years, we have had ac-
counts of a magician in Egypt, first described
in a valuable work on that country by ?tlr.
Lane, which produced an extraordinary im-
pression. The ma-
gician, it was said,
caused a boy to see /.. ·'4 Y _, " t_ ~"' ..,
certain persons called ,, ~-
for, in a little ink,
place<l in his hand, in x
I
the centre of a double
magic square, some-
what like the figure.
One of the most pro-
found writers of the
~ r
) --------·<
v. I> >- ..I C, f'\.....
age even wrote: '' There will be no lack of
confidence to pronounce ; and the authority so
pronouncing• will assume the name and tone of
philosophy, that there was nothing more in the
whole matter than artful contrivance; that
·there was no intervention of an intelligent
agency extraneous to that of the immediate
osrensible agent. But can this assumption be
madeon any other ground than a prior general
assumption that there is no such preternatural
intervention in the system of the world? But
how to lcnou, that there is not? The negative
decision pronounced in confident ignorance, is
a conceited impertinence, which ought to be
rebuked by that philosophy whose oracles it is
Ori QI
n;il 'rem
INDIANA UNIVERSITY
Di itiz by
.IIAtilU•
affecting to utter. For what any man knows,
or can know, there may be such intervention.
That it is not incon1patible with the constitu-
tion of the world, is an unquestionable fact
with the unsophisticated believers in the sacred
records. And not a few occurrences in larer
history have totally defied every attempt at
explanation in any other way."•
And yet sir Gardiner Wilkinson, who sub-
sequently travelled in Egypt, and visited the
. .
magician, says :-
" On going to see him, I was determined to
examine the matter with minute attention, at
the same time that I divested myself of every
previous bias, either for 9r against his pre-
tendeapowers. A party having been made up to
witness the exhibiti<1n, we met, ·according to
previous agreement, at Mr. Lewis's house on
Wednesday evening, the 8th of December.
The magician was ushered in, and having
taken his place, we all sat down, some before
him, others by his side. The party consisted
of colonel Barnet, our consul-ge:peral, Mr.
Lewis, Dr. Abbott; Mr. ~uel, Mr.~Christian,
M. Prisse, with another French gentleman, and
myself, four of whom understood Arabic very
well; so that we had no need of any interpreter.
The magician, after entering into conversation
with many of us on different subjects, and dis-
cussing two or three pipes, prepared for the
performance. He first of all requested that a
* Foster'• Contributions to the Eclectic Review, voL i.
p. H5.
Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
MU
b~EW of livecharcoal should be brought him,
·and,..4l the mean while, oooupied himself in
writiµg 'Ppon a long slip of paper five sentenoea
of two lines ~h, then two others, one of a
aingle
line,and the other of two, as an invoca-
tion to the spirits, Every sentence began with
'Tuyurshoon.' . Each was separated from the
one above and below it. by a line, to direct him
in tearing them apart. A boy was then called,
who was ordered to sit down before the magi-
cian. He did ao,.and the magician having
asked for some ink from Mr. Lewis, traced
with a pen Qn the palm of his right hand a
double square, containing the nine numbers in
this orqer, or in English-making fifteen each
way; the centre one being five-the evil num-
ber. This I remarked to the magician, but
he made no reply. A brazier was brought
and placed between the magician and the boy,
who was ordered to look stedfastly into the ink,
and report what he should see. I begged the
magician to etpeakslowly enough to give me
time to yrite down every word, which he pro-
mised tf do, without being displeased at the
J!equest;- nor had be objected, during the pr~
liminary part of the performance, to my
aUempt to sketch him as he sat. . He now
began an incantation, calling on the spirits by
the power of' our lord Soolayman,' with the
words ' tuyurshoon' and ' haderoo' (be present)
frequently repeated.
" He ~hen muttered words to himself, and
tearing •p&l't the diiferent ~entences he had
Di itiz by Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
written, he put them, one after another, into
the ~e, together with ·some frankincense. This
done, he asked the boy if any one had come.
Boy. 'Yes, many.'-Magician. 'Tell them
to sweep.'-B. 'Sweep.'-M. 'Tell them ~
bring the flags.'-B. 'Bring the flags.'-
M. 'Have they brought any ?'-:-B. 'Yes.'-
M. 'Of what colour ?'-B. 'Green.'-M.
'Say, Bring another.'-B. 'Bring another.'-
~- 'Has it come ?'-B.• ':Y~s, a green
one.' - M. ' Another.' - B. ' Another.' -
M. ' Is it · brought ?' - B. ' Yes, another
green one-they are all green.' This boy
was then sent away, and another was brought,
who had never before seen the magician, having
been chosen with another, by Mr. Lewis, on
purpose ;· but after many incantations, incense,
and· long delay, he could see ·nothing, and fell
asleep over the ink. The other boy was then
called in, but he, like the other, could not be
made to see anything ; and a fourth was
brought in, ,vho had evidently acted his part
before. Hefirst saw a shadow, ·and was or-
dered to ' tell him to sleep;' and, after the
ftags and the sultan as usual, some one sug-
gested that lord Fitzroy So·merset should be
called for. He was
described in a white Frank
dress, a long, high, white hat, black stockings,
and white gloves, tall, and standing before him
with black boots. I asked how he could see his
stockings with boots ? The boy answered,
'Under his trowsers.' He continued, 'IIis
eyes are white, moustaches no beard, but little
Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Ann..:EL-KADER. 25
whiskers, an~ yellow or light hair ; he is thin,
thin legs, thin arms; in his left hand he holds
a stick, and in the other a pipe; he has a black
handkerchief round his neck, his throat but-
toned up, his trowsers are long, he wears green
spectacles.' The magician, seeing some of the
party smiling at the description and its inac-
curacies, said to the boy, ' Don't tell lies, boy.'
To which he answered, ' I do not ; why
should I ?'-M. 'Tell h~ to go.'-B. 'Go.'
Queen Victoria was next called for, who was
described as short, dressed in black trowsers,
a white hat, black shoes, whi~ gloves, red coat,
with lining, and black waistcoat, with whiskers,
but no beard nor moustaches, and holding in
his hand a glass tumbler. He was asked if
~e person were a man or a woman ? He
answered, ' A man.' We told the magician
that it was our queen I He said, ' I do not
know why they should say what is false ; I
knew she was a woman, but the boys describe
as they see.'
"From the manner in which the questions
were put, it is very evident that, when a boy is
persuaded to see anything, the appearances 01
the sweeper, the flags, and the sultan, are the
result of leading questions. The boy pretends
or imagines he sees a man or a shadow, and he
is t,oldto order some one to sweep : he is there-
fore prepared with his answer ; and the same
continues to the end, the magician always tell-
ing him whathe is to call for, and consequently
whatbe is to see. The descriptions of persons
Di itiz by
Or1QI
rid! '11:)m
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
26 MAGIC.
asked for are almost univers~lly complete
failures."
After these and other details, sir Gardiner
says," I am decidedly of opinion th~t the whole
of t}le first part isdona aolely by leading ques-
tions, and that wheµever the desQriptions succeed
in any point, the success is owing to accident,·
or to unintentional promptiPg j.n. the modeof
qu,estioning the boys."• ·
A. s11bsequent tr~veller, lord Nugent, places
the state of the casein a new light :--
" I~ is enough t,o say, that not one penon
who~ Abd-el-Kaderdescribed bore the small"'."
~st resemblance to the one nam~d by ua ; and
all thost3calledfol' were of remarkable appear-
f.'J)ce, .All the prepA-rations,a.Uthe ceremony,
a,nd all the attempts at deacriptipn, bore ev-i-
dences of such a oQarse and stupid fraud, as
would render any detail of the proceeding, or
any argument tending to connect it with any
1Darvellous power, ingenious art, or interesting
inquiry, a mere childish waste of tiJDe. How,
then, does it happen, that respectable and
ijensitive minds have been staggered by the
exhibitiQns of this impostor? I think that the
solution which Mr.Lane himself suggested as
proba,ble is quite complete. When the exhi-
bition was over, Mr. Lane had some conversa ..
tion with the magioian, which he afterwards
repeated to us. In reply to an observation of
?tlr. Lane's to him upon his entire failure, th6
magician admitted .tha.t ' be had often failed
* Willtinaon'a
ModernEgypt,voLi. pp. 218-US.
Ori"'
rial from
INDIANA UNIVERSrTY
AB~'.IL--UDEB. 27
si11oe
the death of Osman Effendi ;'--the aame
Osm~n ~:Wendithat l\Ir. Lane mentions in his
book as having been of the party on every
OCC8'U>n.
on whinh he had been witneu or
the magioian's art, and whose testimony the
~ly Bevi,w oitea jn support of the
;marvel, which (searching much too deep for
what lies very near, indeed, to the surface,) it
e.ndeavoUJ'S
to &Qlveby suggesting the proba-
bility qf diverse oomplicaied optical COJnbina,-
tions.
Di itiz by
f' And, ho it again observed, optical ~ombi-
nationaoa11J1.ot
throw one my of light upoo tbe
main difficulty, the means of procuring the
resemblance •equired {)fthe absent penon. I
now give M,. :J°,Jana'1
solution of the whole
mystery, in his ow11worda, my not.e of which
l subinitktd t,o him, and obtained his ready
pernu,sion. to lJlab public in any way I might
aa, tit. This Osman Effendi,Mr. Lane told me,
wasa Sootohmq.n,
formerly serving in a British
l'egiment, who was taken prisoner by the
Egyptian al'Dl1 <luring our unfortunate e:xpe..
'1.ition to Alexandria, in 1807; that he waa
~ld u q,alave,
and persuaded to abjure Ch~
tianity, and profesa the Mussulman faith i that,
applying hia talents to his necessities, he made
himself useful by dint of some little medical
knowledge he had picked up on duty in the
regimental hospital; that he obtained his liberty
at the instance of the Sheik Ibraim, (M. Burck-
bardt,) through the means of Mr. Salt; that, in
proous of time, he became aeoondinterpreter
Or1QI
r01 'rom
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
28 KAGIO.
of the British consulate; that Osman was,very
probably, acquainted, by portraits or otherwise,
with the general appearance of most Englishmen
of celebrity, and certainly could describe the
peculiar dresses of English professions, such as
army, navy, church, and the ordinary habits of
persons of different professions in England;
that, on all occasions when Mr. Lane was
witness of the magician's success, Osman had
been present at the previous occasions, had
heard who should be called to appear, and so
had, probably, obtained a description of the
:figure,when it was to be the apparition of
some private friend of persons present; that, on
tl1eseoccasions, he very probably had som~
- pre-arranged code of words, by which he could
communicate secretly with the magician. To
this it must be added, that his avowed theory
of morals was, on all occasions, that ' we did
our whole duty if we did what we thought
best for our fellow-creatures and most agreeable
to them.' Osman was present when llr. Lane
was so ast,onished at hearing the boy describe
very accurately, the person of M. Burckhardt,
wi_th whom the magician was unacquainted,
but who had been Osman's .patron, and who,
also, knew well the other gentleman whom Mr.
Lane states in his book that the boy described
as appearing ill and lying on a sofa, and Mr.
Lane added that he had, probably,been asked
by Osman about that gentleman's health, whom
Mr. Lane then knew to be swfering under an
attack of rheumatism. He concluded, there•
Di itiz by Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
\
THE MAGICIANOF CAIRO. 29
fore, by avo,ving that there was no dc,ubt in
his mind, connecting all these circumstances
with the declaration the magician had just
made, that Osman had been the confederate.
Thus I have given in Mr. Lane's words, not
only with his consent, but at his ready offer,
what he has no doubt is the explanation of the
whole of the subject which he now feels to
require no.deeper inquiry; and which has been
adopted by many as a marvel upon an ex-
aggerated view of the testimony that he offered
in his book before he had been convinced, as
he now is, of the imposture. I gladly state
this, on the authority of an enlightened and
honourable man, to disabuse minds that have
wandered into serious speculation on a matter
which I cannot but feel to be qui~ undeserving
of it."•-So true is it, that, while·many effects,
which appear mysterious to the mu.l~tnde,
may be explained by those of greater know-
ledge, others, which, for a time, defy penetra-
tion, are, at length, clearly exhibited in their
true light. It becomes us, therefore, carefully
to examine restimony, to receive that only
which will bear scrutiny, and to suspend our
judgment whenever we are unacquainted with ·
the wholecase. The best of men are prone to
err; and well is it., if, ceasing from them, we
have been led by Divine grace to trust im-
plicitlyin the God of truth.
· *Lord Nugent's" LandsClassicaland Sacred.''
Di itiz by Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
CliAPTER 111.
Machines considered. 1p,Micalin lncient times-Remarkable
m~dem automata--Minute engines-The calculating mu-
clnne..
'fnE light of ntodern scienoe has revealed to us
many important secrets. In the dark ages
there were but few books; it was then the
fashion to write them ·in Latin; and as, frotn
their costliness, they could only be obtained
byinen of wealth, so .they could be understood
alone by such as had enjoyed the advan-
tages of education. Science is now easily
accessible, but, though it is not necessary for
us all to become philosophers, there is no good
reason why people generally should not be
acquainted with some of the most retnark~ble
phenomena of the natural world. . The inspired
psalmist has said," The works of the Lord are
great, sought out of all them that have pleasure
therein;'' and it becomes atl, according to theit
means and opportunities, to lay this truth to
heart. We proceed now to consider some
effects regarded as magical, which are satisfac-
torily explained on natural principles, beginning
with mechanics.
Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
MAGICAL IIACJIINES. Hl
An ability to construct wonderfttl or magical
machines was manifest among the ancients.
Archytas, a native of Tarentum, in Italy, who
lived four hundred years before the birth ot
our Lord and Saviour, is said to have made a
wooden dove, which flew and sustained iteelf
for some time in the air. Other clever contrh'-
anees are also mentioned. " A magician," says
D'lsraeli, " was annoyed, as philosophers still
aret by passengers in the street; and he, parti-
cularly so, by having horses led to drink u_ndet
his window. He made a magical horse of wood,
according to one of the book8of Hermes,
which perfectly ans'\\r-ered his Jlurpose, by
frightening away the horses, or, rather, the
grooms I The wooden b()rse, no doubt, gave
so~e palpable ·kick."
It is worthy of remark, that tales of ancient
times mU8t be received with caution. We
find it neee88ary, even at a much later period.
The tricks whioh now amuse or astonish the
populace at a 0011ntry fair, would be greatly
exaggerated in a credulous age, and often
assume even the most portentous colouring.
Noi: is it difficult to guess, and sometimes to
diseover, the stages of similar and great mysti-
fications. The following instance is rather re-
markable. On Charle1 v. enooring Nuremberg,
a celebrated German astronomer, whose re:u
name wa! Johann Millier, but who styled him-
self Regiomontanus, exhibited some automata
whieh he had constructed. 'fhese were a.n
eagle of wood, which, placed on the gate of the
Di itiz by Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
city, rose up and :flapped its wings, while ·tha
_emperorwas passing below; and a fly, made of
steel, which walked round a table. Now all
this is sufficiently credible. But what is the
record of the chroniclers only a few years after?
That the wooden eagle sprang from the t9wer
and soared in the air; and that the steel fly
flew three times round the emperor, and then
alighted buzzing on his hand I
In many instances, the mechanism of modem
times is surprisingly minute. A watchmaker
in London presented his majesty George m.
with a repeating watch he had constructed, set
in a ring. Its size was something less than a
silver two-pence; it contained onehundred-and-
twenty-five different parts, and weighed, alto-
gether, no more than five pennyweights and
seven grains I
In an exhibition of Maillardet, which the
writer has seen, the lid of a box suddenly flew
open, and a small bird of beautiful plumage
started forth from its nest. The wings fluttered,
and the bill opening with the tremulous motion
peculiar to singing birds, it began to warble.
After a succession of notes, whose sound well
filled a large apartment, it retired to its nest,
and the lid closed. Its performances occupied
about four minutes. In the same exhibition
were an automatic spider, a caterpillar, a mouse,
and a serpent; all of ,vhich exhibited the pecu-
liar movements of the living creatures. The
spider was made of steel: it ran on the suri:'lce
of a table for three minutes, and its course
Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
IDNUTE ENGntES. 33
tended towards the middle of the table. The
serpent crawled about in every direction,
opened its mouth, hissed, and darted forth ita
tongue.
Several years ago, a watchmaker, residing
in a town in which the writer lived, made a
working model of a steam-engine, the packing-
caae of which was a walnut-shell. On showing
it one day to a gentleman, the machine was
suddenly stopped, the mechanic remarking,
"There is something wrong in one of the safety-
valves." " Safety-valve I" exclaimed the ob-
server; " I have not yet been able to detect the
:By-wheel!" .
The most curious specimen of minute work-
manship, however, with which we are ac-
quainted, is a high-pressure engine, the work
of a watchmaker having a stand at the
Polytechnic Institution, and first exhibited in
184:o. Each part was made according to scale,
it worked by atmospheric pressure, in lieu of
steam, with the greatest activity, yet it was so
smaU,that it stood on a fourpenny-piece, with
ground to spare, and, with the exception of the
1ly-wheel, it might be covered with a thimble.
D'Alembert describes a flute-nh1yer, con-
strucfiedby Vaucanson, which he saw-~xhibited
at Paris in 1738. The writer has also seen
pne, in which a figure appeared seated, and then
rose and played a tune, the motions of the
fingers seeming to accord with the notes. - He
cannot answer for the music having been pro-
duce<!by the movements of the hands of the
•
Di itiz by Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
34 MECHANICS.
automaton. D'Alemhert affirms, however, that
the automaton of Vaucanson really projected
the air with its lips against the embouchure of
the instrun1ent, producing the different octaves
by expanding and contr~cting their openings,
giving rnore or less air, and regulating the
·tones by its fingers, in the ·manner of living '
performers. The height of the figure, with the
pedestal, containing some of the machinery, was
nearly six feet; it commanded three octaves,
several notes of which musicians find it difficult
to produce. Some years ago, two automaton
:flute-players were exhibited in this country, of
the size of life, which performed ten or twelve I
duets. That they actually played the flute
might be proved, by placing t.he finger on any
hole t~at was unstopped for a moment by the
automata.
M. Vaucanson produced a flageolet-player,
who beat a tambourine with one hand. Th(,
flageolet had only three holes, and some notes
were made by half-stopping these. The lowest
note was produced by a force of wind equal to
an ounce, the highest by one of fifty-six French
pounds. A duck was, however, considered to .
be his chef-d'reuvre; it dabbled in the mire,
swam, drank, quacked, raised and moved its
wings, and dressed its feathers with its bill; it
even extended its neck, took barley from the
hand and swallowed it, during which process
the muscles ·of the neck were seen in· motion,
and it ·also digested the food by means of
materials provided for its solution in the
Or1QI
rid! '11:)m
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
AUTOM.~TA. 85
stomach. The invent.or made no secret oft.he
machinery, which excited, at the time, great
admiration.
Maelzel, the inventor of the metronome, or
time-measurer, frequently used to aid pupila
in music, exhibited in Vienna in 1809, another
automaton of singular power; which appeared
in the uniform of a trumpeter in the Austrian
dragoon regiment Albert, with his instrument
placed to his mouth. When the figure wu
pressed on the lei\ shoulder, it played not only
the Austrian cavalry march, and all the signals
ofthat army, but also a march and allegro by
Weigl, ,vhich was accompanied by the whole
orche.stra. The dreas of the figure was then
changedinto that of a French trumpeter of the
guards, when it began to play a French cavalry
march, all the. signals, the march of Dussek,
and an allegro of Pleyel, accompanied again
by the full orchestra. Maelzel publicly wound
up his instrument only twice on the left hip.
The sound of the trumpet was pure and pe-
cuJiarly agreeable.
- About thirty years ago, Maillardet exhibited,
in Spring Gardens, a variety of automata,
which the writer· had an opportunity of seeing
at a lat,er period. One was the figure of a boy,
who wrote sentences, and drew certain objects
with remarkable promptitude and correctness.
Another was a pianiste, seated at a piano-forte,
on which she played eighteen tunes. AU her
movement,$
were graceful. Before beginning a
t,me, she made a gentle inclination of the hea(\
B 2
Ori"'
rial from
Di itiz by
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
86 MECHANICS.
to her auditors; her bosom heaved, and her
eyes followed the motion of her fingers over
the finger-board. When the automaton was
once wound up, it would continue playing for
an hour; and the principal part of the ma-
chinery employed was freely exposed to public
view. It has been doubted whether the music
was actually produced by the automaton: since
the time now referred to, the ,vriter has ex-
amined another, in which the keys of the in-
strument were certainly acted upon by the
touch.
He has also seen, at various times, several
very curious!y constructed automata: the figure
of a lady, who could walk along a level sur-
face, throwing out the limbs, and moving
the head from side to side; a tippler, who
could pour out wine from a decanter into a
glass, open his mouth, and swallow the fluid,
and thus proceed till the bottle was drained ;
and a performer on the slack rope, whose ex-
ceedingly rapid movements of the body, the
arms, and the head, all consistent and graceful,
,vere truly an1azing.
A very beautiful automaton was exhibited,
a few years ago, in Paris, and subsequently in
London, It appeared in a court suit, sitting
at a table, in the attitude of writing. Several
questions, inscribed on tablets, were placed or.
the table on which the whole apparatus stood,
and visitors might select any one or more at
pleasure. The tablet, containing a question, on
being handed to the attendant, was placed iJi
Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
UI
a drawer, and, as soon as it was closed, the
figure traced on paper an appropriate reply.
On the question being given, " Who may be
volatile without a crime ?" the answer was,
"A butterfly." And as the figure could draw
a response as well as write it, when the ques-
tion was put, "What is the symbol of fidelity ?"
it drew, in outline, the form of a greyhound.
In the same way it proceeded throughout the
series -0fquest!ons,
In some instances, the effect of automata is
increased by the exhibiter proposing certain
questions, and receiving responses from the
figure-as shaking the head, to denote a nega-
tive; or nodding, to indicate assent. It ia
evident that here the inquiries or remarks are
thrown in to 8CCord
wi..
b the motions that the
figure is contrived to make. When, however,
a performer, as one has recently done, puts a
whistle in the mouth of an automaton, and
then,sitting down by its side, plays a tune on
a guitar, desiring the figure to accompany him;
the huty sounds with which the figure seems
inclined to begin, the irregularity with which
it proceeds,and the long and loud closing note,
may all be easily supplied by some confederate.
Surprising.asare the e:fFects
produced by many
attt.omata,it would be wrong to infer that their
only results are the wonder of the multitude,
orgain or applause to their inventors. " They
gave rise," as sir David Br~wster has re-
marked, " to the most ingenious mechanical
devices,and introduced, among the higher
Di itiz by Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
order of artists, habits of nice and accurate
execution in the formation of the most delicate
pieces of machinery." Those combinations of
wheels and pinions, which almost eluded ob-
servation, " reappeared ·in the stupendous
mechanistn of our spinning-machines and our
steam-engines. The elements of the tumbling
puppet were revived in the chronometer, which
now conducts our navy through the ocean;
and the shapeless wheel which directed the
hand of the drawing automaton (of Maillardet,)
has served, in the present age, to guide the
movements of the tambour4ig-engine. Those
mechanical ,vonders, which in one century '
enriched only the conjurer .who used them,
contributed in anothel' to augment the wealth
of the nation; and those automatic toys which
once amused the vulgar, are ·now employed in ,
extending the power, and promoting the civili-
sation of our species. In whatever ·way, in-
deed, the power of genius may invent or com-
bine, and to whatever bad or even ludicrous
purposes that invention or combination may
be originally applied, society receives a gift
which it can never lose; and though the value
of the 1eed may not at once be recognised,
though it may lie long unproductive in the un-
genial soil of human knowledge,it will, some
time or other, evolve its germ, and yield to
mankind its natural and abundant harvest."*
A singular fpct is connected with the early
history of the Astronomical Society of London.
• NaturalMagic, p. 286.
Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
CALCULATINGMACHINE. 89
A valuable set of tables, for reducing the ob-
served to the true places of stars, was in course
ofpreparation, at the expense of the society, in-
cluding above three thousand stars, and compre-
hending all known to those of tne fifth magni-
tude, inclU1ive,and all the most usefuloftheeixth
and seventh. An incident which now occurred,
gaverise to one of the most extraordinary or
modern inventions. To insure accuracy in the
calculation of certain tables, separate computen
had been employed ; and two members of the
society having .been chosen to compare the re-
aults, det,ected so many errors, as to induce one
of them to express his regret that the work
could not be executed by a machine. For this,
the other member, Mr. Babbage, at once re-
plied, that " this was possible;" and, persevering
in the inquiry which had thus suggested itself,
he produced a machine for calculating . tables
with surprising accuracy.
The calculating part of the machinery oc-
cupies a space of about ten feet broad, ten feet
high, and five feet deep. It consists of seven
steel axes, erected 0ver one another, each of
them carrying eighteen wheels, five inches in
diameter, having on them small barrels, and in-
.scribed with the symbols O,1,to 9. ·The machine
calculates to eighteen decimal places, true to
the last figure; but, by subsidiary contrivances,
it is possible to calculate to thirty decimal
places. Mr. Babbage has since contrived a
machine, much more simple in its construction,
and far more extenfliv~ in its application.
Di itiz by Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
40 llECHANICS.
In thus enumerating various displays of
mechanical genius, we are reminded that the
prophet Isaiah, after describing the diverse
labours of the husbandman, adds, "This also
cometh forth from the Lord of hosts, which
is wonderful in counsel, and excellent in
working." In all the evidence we have of
human talent, then, let us acknowledge that
"every good gift and every perfect gift is from
above, and cometh down from the Father or
lights, with whom is no variableness, neither
shadow of turni11-g
," Jas. i. 17. Would that
the gifts of God were always used for the
~ivine gloryI
Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
•
CHAPTER IV.
Terrestrial phenomena-Footmarks on rocks-The Logan
atone-Sound.a in atonea-The cave of St. Paul-Atmo-
apberical phenomena-lntermitting springs-Waters of
magical power.
111proceeding to illustrate the operation of
natural laws, we may look now at some of the
phenomena connected with the globe we in-
habit, or which, where little knowledge is pos-
sessed, erroneous and. frequently superstitious
opinions are still entertained.
Marvellous tales are often told of rocks.
There is, for example, a tradition of a noble-
man being ~ngaged in the chase, or pursued
by his enemies, without being hurt; whose
horse left the prints of his feet on a mass of
stone, over which he passed. But, unhappily
forthe tale, other impressions have been ob-
served besides those of the horse's feet; and it
is affirmed by various naturalists, deserving of
credit, that they must have been made by very
different animals, at a remote period, before
the stone had completely hardened. Other
instances of the same kind might easily be
lriven. In the British Museum, there is a slab
havingsinillar impressions, obviously produced
B 8
Di itiz by Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
42 TERRESTRIAL
PHENOMENA.
by the same means. It was dug from a great
depth; a mass of ~tone, many feet in thickness,
having been formed above the layer which re-
ceived, in a soft state, the impression from the
feet of several anin1als.
Other impressions, of v1hich ,ve read or hear,
are nothing more than tricks of art. Such,
most probably, is the impression of the foot of
Budda upon the Peak of Adam, at Ceylon; the
print of the foot of the idol Gaudama, in the
Burmese empire, which has been three times
reproduced; and most certainly this is the case
,vith the so•called impressions of the feet of
our blessed Lord and Saviour, shown to the
present day, on Mount Olivet.
'fhe cave of St. Paul, at Civita Vecchia, the
former capital of the island of ?tlalta, is an
excavation, about nineteen feet in height, and
fifty in circu1nfcrence; in a soft, white, lime-
stone rock, more friable than chalk. A belief
that the stone was endowed with miraculous
medical virtues, led people to Cilrry away large
quantities of it during the sway of the knights.
In 1770, when visited by Brydone, the cave
was in the highest celebrity; not only every
house in the island had a medical chest of it,
but large quantities were sent to different
countries in Europe, and even to the East
Indies. It was supposed to have a miraculous
power which preserved it from diminution;
which may be accounted for by a natural law-
the calcareous process of formation still going
on-while its healing power is to be attributed
Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
THE LOGANSTONE. 43
to its having some of the properties of inag
nesia; which leads, according to Dr. Walsh, to
its still being given as a purgative-sudorific in
eruptive or fever complaints.
One instanee of gross superstition, as con-
nected with rocks, is too imp0rtant to be
omitted. The trial by ordeal appears to have
been very early practise4 among the Celtic
tribes of Europe, who "'."ere always under the
influence of an artful and domineering priest-
hood. Thus, it is ~aid that in cases of doubtful
accusation the Druids made use of the rocking-
stones which were common in Britain, and that
the culprit was acquitted Qf condemned accord-
ing as besucceeded or failed in shaking them.
Mason, ·..alludes to this trial in the following
lines:-
" Be.W yon huge
And unknown sphere of li-l''ingadamant,
Which, poised by magic, rests its central weigl1t
On yonder pointed rock ; firm as it seems,
Boeh is its stran~e and virtuous property,
It moves obseqU1ousto tile gentlest touch
Of him whose heart ia pure; but to a traitor,
Though e'en a giant's prowess nezyed bis arm,
It stands as fixed as Snowdon."
A little knowledge would have disabused the
mind of this delusion. The celebrated Logan
or Logging-stone, near the Land's End ·in
Cornw.all, is an immense block, weighing abou~
sixty tons. The surface in contact with the
under rock is, however, of v~:ry small extent;
and the whole mass is so nicely balanced, that,
notwithstanding its magnitude, the strength of
a singleman is sufficient to make it oscillate.
Di itiz by Ori"'
rial from
INDIANA UNIVERSrTY
44: TERRESTRIAL PHENOMENA
•.
when applied to the under edge. It is the
nature of granite to disintegrate or decompose
by the action of' the air and moisture; a huge
mass is thus split into several blocks, and at
length, by the continued operation of the
elemente; one is sµspended on the rest.
-
- -- -
( ·'\~
~ 1'
rr:-
bA
1
·)~~./
-., , ..:.:,__
~~..:---:-
__ _ _ ~-------~ )# :.,1=::,,.::;;::::
.:.
:-.: -:~ ' ~ :""':
:~:-: ;;p - -
==...-::--'--- .:::
--:. ~
J..:Z.-____
•..,- ·--i..~:..-~ -.,
Sounds e1nitted from rocks have often been
regarded as portentous . Mr. G. Bennett, when
at Macao, had his attention directed to a mass
of granite rocks, appearing as if separated by
some convulsion of nature, many of ,vhich
were found, when trodd en on, to be movabl e.
The first, and by far the n1ost sonorous, "·as
Digitized b Go gle 0!1glM 'mm
INDIA~ UNIVERSfTY
THE JIOmtTAJH OJ' TBB BEU.,. Q
partiallyexcavated underneath; and, by strik-
ingit upon the upper part, a deep sound, "like
that of a church bell," was produced. " The
batt.ered appearance of the stone above," it is
said," bore several proofs of how many visitors
had made this lion roar." Many of the other
rockswere also sonorous, but not so loud as the
first,and, from their situations, "they were mov-
ablewhen trodden on; but it could not be seen,
whether,
like the preceding, they wereexcavated,
and,in consequence of being so, sonorous."
In the chain of El-Heman, and not far from
the RedSea, is the Jebal Narkous, or " Moun-
tain of the Bell." It forms one of a ridge of
_
lowcalcareous hills, which are connect-ed by a
sandyplain, extending, with a gentle rise, to
their base. It is composed of a light-coloured
friablesandstone, about the same as the rest of
thechain; but an inclined plane of almost im-
palpable sand rises at an angle of about forty
degrees
with the horizon, and is bounded by a
semi-circle of .rocks, presenting broken, abrupt,
and pinnacled forms, and ext;ending to the base
of this remarkable hill. Its height is about
four hundred feet.
Lieutenant Wellsted observed, that_the shape
and arrangement of the rocks resembled, in
some respects, a whispering-gallery; but he
aecertained, by experiment, that their irregular
IUrlacerendered them but ill-adapted for the
production of an echo. Seated on a rock at the
base .of the sloping eminence, he directed a
Bedouin to ascend; snd it ,vas not..till he had
Di itiz by Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
46 TERRES'l'lUAL P,HENOIIENA.
reached some distance that the lieutenant per-
ceived the sand in 1uotion,rolling down the hill to
the depth of a foot. It did not, however, descend
in one continued stream, but, as the Arab
scrambled upwards, it spread out laterally and
above, until a considerable portion of the sur-
face was in motion. Ag the sand began to fall,
the sounds produced might be compared to the
faint strains of an Eoliaq: harp when its strings
first catch the breeze. When the sounds be-
came more violently agitated by the increased
velocity of the descent, the naise more near1y
tesen1hled that produced by dra,ving the moist-
ened fingers over glass. As it reached the base,-
the reverberations attained the loudness of
distant thunder,. causing the rock on which
_lieutenant Wellsted was seated to ,ibrate·;
and the camels, animals not easily frightened,
became so alarmed, that their drivers could
only retain them with difficulty. The noise, it
was remarked, did not issue from every part of
·the hill alike, the loudest being produced by
disturbing the sand on the northern side, about
twenty feet from the base, and about ten from
the rocks that bound it in that direction. 1'he
tradition is, that the bells of a convent were
Luried here; the Bedouins trace the sounds t;o
several wild and fanciful causes; but, in the
experiment now described, it was evident that
the sounds sometimes fell quicker on the ear,
~and at other titnes were more prolonged, ac-
cording to the Arab's increasing or rPtarding
the velocity of his descent.
Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
VJBKATWNS,
Dr. Chladni made many curious experi-
ments on the figures assumed by sand and
similar substances, when strewed over vibrating
sonorous bodies. The reader may easily try an
experiment of this kind. Let a square piece of
glass be taken, such as that ueiedfor windows,
not less than four or fil'e inches over, the edges
ofwhieh are to be smoothed by grinding. Spread
over the plate, as evenly as possible, a little
sand, and, holding it between th.e thumb and
fore-finger, in the middle, pass the bow of a
-violin against one of its edges, drawing it either
upwards or downwards, in a ·direction perpen-
dicular to its surface. A tremulous motion
will be immediately observed, and the 8811d
will assume some particular and fixed figure.
If the bow be pasaed over the middle of one
of the sides, the sand will arrange itself in the
direction of ihe two diagonals, dividing the
square into four isosceles triangles. If the bow
be applied at any point which is one-fourth the
length of the square from any angle, the
vrangement of the sand will represent the two
diameters of the square, dividing it into four
equal figures of the same form. If the square
be held at the two extremities of either dia•
meter, and the bow be applied to tl1e extremities
of the other diameter, the sand will take the
figure of an oval, having its major axis in the
same direction as one of the diameters.
Di itiz by
Other experiments of the same kind l1ave
since been made by II. Voigt, and also by the
eelebratedOersted. The Is.tter covered a plate
Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
4~ TERRESTRIAL
PHENOMENA.
of metal or glass with the lycopodium seed, or
the seed of the club-moss, instead of sand ;
he then tried to produce a sound in the
manner of Chladni, and instantly he saw the
dust distribute itself into a number of little
regular tumuli, which put themselves in motion
at their extremities, or formed the figures dis-
covered by this naturalist. They always
ranged them~elves in the form of a curve, the
convexity of which was in proportion to the
point touched by the violin bo,v, or towards
the point which has an analogous situation;
the nearer that each of these little heaps was
to these points, the greater was its height, a cir-
cumstance which gave remarkable regularity
to the figure. The interior of the small eleva-
tions thus obtained, were in constant motion
during the continuance of the sound, and the
duration of the vibrations might be observed
on a plate from four to six inches in diameter.
At one moment the height increased, at another
it diminished, and the dust had the appearance
of arranging itself in small globules, which
rolled one above another.
We tnay now return from these very inter-
esting facts, to others on a far larger scale.
Near the Kom-el-Hett'an, or the mound of
sand-stone, which makes the ·site of one of
the palaces and temples of Amunoph m., art!
two sitting colossi, which seem to 388ert the
grandeur of ancient Thebes. The easternmost
of the two_is doubt.less the statue reported by
ancient authors to utter a sound at the rising
Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
of the sun. It was said to resemble the bieak-
ing of a metallic ring, or harp-string. The
superstition of its Roman visitors ascribed the
colOS8118
to Memnon, and a multitude of inscrip-
tions attributed to him miraculous powers.
The memory of ite daily performance is still
retained in the traditional appellation of Sala-
mat, " salutations," by the modern inhabitants
of Thebes. It is said to have " saluted" the
emperor Adrian and his queen Sabina twice ;
but some persons, of course of humble rank,
were disappointed on their first visit, and
obliged to return another morning to aatiafy
I.heir curiosity.
And yet there is ample reason to believe that
the whole was an artifice of the priest.a. In
the lap of the statue is a stone ; and as sir
Gardiner Wilkinson discovered, on examining
the inscriptions, that one Ballilla had compared
the sound the stone emitted, when struck, to
the striking of brass, he determined to put the ·
matter to the test. Accordingly, posting some
peasants below, and ascending to the lap of the
atatue, he struck the sonorous block with a
small hammer, and inquiring what was heard
by the peasants, they answered, " You are
striking brass." " This," says sir Gardiner,
" convinced me that the sound was the sound
that deceived the Romans, and led Strabo to
observe that it appeared
to him as the effect of
a slight blow." "The Theban priests," he
adds," must have been considerable gainers by
the credulity of those who visited their lion."
Di itiz by Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
50 TERRES1'RIAL PHENOMENA.
The reader who may have taken the delight-
ful walk from Tunbridge Wells to the High
l?ocks, and examined particularly those huge
masses, will not fail to remember the one called
"the Bell Rock." On entering the space between
this one and the next, it may be struck with a
stick, when a sound will be heard like that pro-
duced, on a large metallic body being smitten.
In the road cut by Napoleon bet~een Savoy
and France, and about two miles from Les
Echelles, there is a gallery twenty-se?en feet
high and broad, and nine hundred atld sixty
feet in length, formed in the solid rock. When
this road ,vas nearly complete, and the e:tcava-
tions commenced at eaoh end almost tnet, the
partition was broken through by a piek-axe,
and a loud and deep sound was heard. We
are indebted to Mr. Bakewell fur the fbllowing
solution of this pheno1nenon. The mountain
rises full one thousand feet above·the passage,
and. fifooenhundred above the valley. 'fhe air,
on the eastern side of the mountain 1is sheltered
both on the south and ,vest from the sun's
rays; and consequently must be much colder
than on the western side. The mountain,
therefore, formed a partition between the hot
air of the valley, and the cold air of the ravines
on the eastern side. When the opening was
made, the cold, and therefore denser air, rushed
into that rarefied by heat, and a loud report
was produced, in the same manner as when a
bladder, placed over an exhausted air-pump
receiver, is burst.
Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
0.1
Baron Humboldt informs us, on credible
authority, that subterranean sounds, resembling
the tones of an organ, are heard on the banks
of' the Oroonoko. He supp08es that they arise
from a di1Ference of fiemperature betweenthe
external atmosphere and the air confined in the
crevices of the adjacent granitic rocks. He
eoncludea that, as the temperature of the con-
fined air is greatly increased during the day
from the cond11etion of heat by the roeke; and
as the duFerence of temperature between it and
the atm<>@pbere
will reach its maximum about
sunrise, the sounds are produced by the escap-
ing current.
The following illustrative experiment is nol
a little curious :-If a tube formed of some
elastic and sonorous substance be taken, and a
jet of inflamed hydrogen be introduced, a
musical sound will be heard. This will take
place in a tube closed at one end, if it be large
enough to admit a sufficient quantity of atmo-
spheric air to support the combustion of the
gas ; but if the tuee be open at both extremi-
ties, the musical sound will be clear and full.
Various conclusions have been arrived at in
reference to this phenomenon; but they have
been set aside by the experiments of Mr. Fara-
day, who attributes the sounds produced by
flames in tubes to a continual series of detona-
tions or explosions.
The first philosopher who exhibited the·
longitudinal vibration of solids was Dr. Chladni.
According to him, t~e . best method of pro-
Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
52 TERRESTRIAL
PHENOMENA.
ducing these vibr$tions in rods, is by rubbing
them, in the direction of their length, with
some son substance, covered with powdered
resin, or by the finger. When glass tubes are
employed, they should be rubbed with a piece
of rag spread over with fine sand, the tube
being held by one of the ends.
" In all longitudinal vibrations," says the
same writer, "the tones depend merely on
the length of the sonorous body, and on the
quality of the substance, the thickness and
form being of no consideration ; yet the tones
are not varied by the specific gravity of the
vibrating substance ; for fir-wood, glass, and
iron, give almost the same tone as brass, oak,
and the shanks of tobacco-pipes." He also
mentions several kinds of longitudinal vibra-
tion ; in one, to use his own words, " there is a
certain point in the middle at which the·vibra-
tion of each half-stops ; in the next there are
two, each at the distance of a fourth part from
the end; and, in the following,there are three, or
more. The tones correspond with the natural
series of the numbers 1, 2, 8, 4, etc. If a rod
be fastened at one end, during the first kind of
longitudinal vibration, the alternate expansion
and contraction of the whole rod will take place
in such a manner, that they stop at the fixed
end ; in the next tone there is a resting-point
at the distance of one-third from the free end ;
and in the followingthere are two. 'fhe tones
correspond with the numbers I, 3, 5, 7, and
the first of these tones i$ an Qctavelower _than
Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
'l'HE iUPHON!.
the first tone of the same rod when perfectly
free.h
When examining the nature of sonorous
bodies,Dr. Chladni imagined the possibility o(
producing musical sounds by rubbing glass
hlbes longitudinally. It, however, became a
difficult question to determine in what way an
instrument of this kind should be constructed.
After much and long-continued unsuccessful
thought, he returned home one evening ex-
hausted with walking, and he had scarcely
closedhis eyes to fall asleep in his chair, when
the arrangement he had so long been seeking,
occurred to his mind. He soon after completed
an instrument, which in every respect an-
swered his expectations. ·
The euphone, signifying an instrument hav-
ing a pleasant sound, consists of forty-one fixed
and parallel cylinders of glass, equal in length
and thickness. In its external appearance it
resembles a small writing-desk, which, when
opened, presents a series of glass tubes about
aixt.een inches long, and the thickness of a
quill. They are fixed in a perpendicular
sounding-board, at the back of the instrument.
Whe~ used, the tubes are wetted with a
sponge, and stroked in the direction of their
length with wet fingers; the intensity of the
t'lne being varied by greater or less pressure.
The singular phenomenon of sound occa-
sioned by. the vibration of soft iron, produced
by a galvanic current; was recently discovered
by Mr. Sage, and has been since verified by
Di itiz by Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
54 TERRESTRl.AL
PHENOMENA.
the observations of a French philosopher, M.
1':Iarian. The experiments were made on a bar
of iron, which was fixed at the middle, in a
horizontal position, each half being inclosed in
a large glass tube. By appropriate arrange~
ments, the galvanic circle was completed ; and
the longitudinal sound could be distinguished,
although it was feeble. The origin of the
sound has therefore been ascribed to a vi-
bration in the interior of the iron bar; and to
the same cause are probably attributable many
phenomena.
We now pass on 1D the violent agitation of
the air, which is often productive of surprising
result.c;. A quantity of feathers, for example,.
,vas scattered one day over the market-place of
Yarmouth, to the great astonishment of a large
number of persons assembled there. But what
was the cause ? The timid considered that the
phenomenon predicted some great calamity ;
the inquisitive indulged in a thousand conjec-
tures; and the curious in natural history sagely
accounted for it_by a gale of wind in the north,
blowing wild-fowl feathers from the island of
St. Paul's I Yet, not one of them was right.
No guess would explain the cause, and yet it
arose from the prank of a frolicsome boy
Astley, afterwards well known as sir Astley
Cooper, had taken two of his mother's pillows
to the top of the church, and when he had
climbed as far as he could up the steeple, he
ripped them open, and scattered their contents
to the wind.
Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
TBE wnm. 66
The Philosophical, Magazinscont-
ains an ac•
count of a singular snow phenomenon that
occurred in Orkney. The paper was contri-
buted by Mr. Clouston, of Stromness. "One
night a heavy fall of snow took place, which
covered the plain to a depth of several inches.
' Upon this pure carpet,' says the writer, ' there
reste4 next morning thousands of large messes
of snow, which contrasted strangely with iti
smooth surface.' These occurred generally in
patches, from one acre to a hundred in extent,
while clusters were often half-a-mile asunder.
The fields so covered looked as if they had
been scattered over with cart-loads of manure,
and the latter covered with snow ; but, on
examination, the masses were all found to be
cylindrical, like hollow fluted rollers, or l~ea'
swan-down muffs, bearing a strong resem-
blance to the latter. The ,largest 1neasured 8-j-
feet long, and 7 feet in circumference. The
centres ,vere nearly but not quite hollow; and
by placing the head within when the aun was
bright, the concentric structure of the cylinder
was apparent. They did not occur in any of
the adjoining parishes, and were limited to a
,paceof about :fivemiles. The first idea, as to
the origin of these bodies, was, that they had
fallen from the clouds, and portended so~e
direfulcalamity. But, had they fallen from the
atmosphere, their symmetry and loose texture
must have been destroyed. The writer having
examined them, ,vas soon convjnced that they
Di itiz by
Or1QI
rid! '11:)m
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
56 TERRESTRIAL PlttNOMENA.
l1at\ been .formed by the wind rolling up the
sno• as boys form snow-balls. The!r round
form, concentric structure, fluted surface, and
position with respect to the weather side of
eminences, proved this; and it was also evident,
from the fact of their lying lengthways, with .
their. sides to the wind ; and sometimes their
tracks were visible in the snow for twenty or
thirty yards in the windward direction, whence
they had evidently g'athered up their concentric
layers."
A correspondent of the .AthenaJum,in a
letter, dated Naples, January Srd, 1847, men-
tions another very striking phenomenon. He
was standing on a cliff overlooking the Medi-
terranean, accompanied by an Italian friend.
The air was perfectly tranquil, and yet in a
moment he felt himself grasped and encircled,
as it were, by an unseen and irresistible power,
and, in spite of his struggles, he felt himself
sailing through the air at a balloon speed.
After a few moments of his aerial travelling, he
was pitched halfway down the cliff into ~he
centre of an empty lime-kiln, not far from the
sea. Nor was he alone; there was another
heavy fall ; for bis friend stood opposite him.
As they were encircled by a force, equal at all
points, though the shock was violent, they fell
on their feet, but sank directly to the ground,
and there sat gazing at one another, unable
either to move or speak. Happily, no bones
were broken; but so severe were the internal
Or1QI
rid! '11:)m
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
THE WATER-SPOUT. 57
dljuries experienced, as to confine them to their
beds for some time, and they expect the int-er-
nal etrects of their involuntary and dangerous
voyage to remain for a considerable time.
As the population of the coasts of the Medi-
t.erranean are exceedingly ignorant and super-
stitious, it is not surprising that the people in
the neighbourhood said that the Shal'ombre,
the evil spirits, in the lime-kiln, must have
drawn the travellers in ; and attributed their
deliverance to the intercession of the souls in
purgatot:y for the acts of charity they had
performed I ·
To avoid any calamities, which the marinen
of Naples generally attribute to demoniacal
inftuence, they resort to the practice of witch-
craft. Few are the barks that venture to the
eoral fishery, or the coasting-trade, without
-having a magician on board. Persons of this
class, however, who practise the art supposed
to be required at sea, or who even reveal it to
others, cannot receive absolution from an ordi-
nary confessor. It is comprehended under the
head of " malaficia," one of the reserved sins
to be found in the printed list of directions
appended to every confessional in Italy.
And yet, were witchcraft available in any
case, it could not be in ' connexion with the
natural operation, which the mariners call
"trombe di mare." The travellers suffered, in
fact, from a strong wind, connected with the
phenomenon_of a waters pout, observed, for the .
most part, at sea, but sometimes also on shore.
Di itiz by Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
i)ft TERRESTRIAL PHENOJIENA.
Its usual appearance is that of a dense cloud,
like a conical pillar, which seems to consist of
condensed vapour, and is seen to descend ·with
the apex downwards. When over the sea, there
are generally t,vo cones, one projecting from
the cloud, the other from the water below it.
They sometimes unite, and then a flash of
lightning i! observed; on other occasions, they
disperse before any junction takes place. The
effect appears to be, at least partly, electrical;
the cones being in opposite stares,the positive
and negative attraction ensue; and, when union
takes place, which is indicated by the flash,
the bodies are restored to their equilibrium.
The magicians on the coast practise what
they call the art of "cutting" the "trombe."
As soon as it is seen approaching in the direc•
tion of a boat, the wizard goes forward, sends all
the crew aft, that they may not be eye-witnes1e1
of what- he does; and using certain signs or
words, and making a movement with his arma
as if in the act of cutting, the enemy falls in
two, and disappears.
We are reminded by these. circumstances
of" the news from the country," which the
Spectator describes as brought to him by sir
Roger de Coverley. One part of it was, that
Moll White was dead, and that about a month
after one of the baronet's barrui fell down, which
led to the shrewd remark : " I do not think the
old woman had anything to do with it." Nor
do we think that the wizard of the Mediter-
ranean has anything to do with '' cutting the
Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
THE ILl8IUI.
wind." The probability is, that he seizes on
the time for his movement&,which, from expe-
rience, he knows to precede the dispersion of the
cloud; and thua acquires credit to which he baa
not the slightest claim.
This chapter may appropriately be.concluded
by a reference to the waters of the earth, which
are often represented as endued with a super-
natural power. The Ilissus, rising en Meunt
Hymettus, to the east of Athens, and overflow-
ing its banks, furnishes a supply of excellent
water to the monastery of Sergiani. On one side,
are three small caverns in the rock, withdouble
entrances ; apparent}y the work of nature, but
probably aided by art. They are still sup-
posed, as they have been during past ages, to
have a mystic virtue; .and" no remedy," says
Dodwell, is considered so efficacious for a sick
child as " to drag it two or three times from one
cave to another; by which it is either killed or
cured. Several ancient wells are observ.i in
the rock on each side of the rivel't Near these,
the foundation of a wall crosses the bed of the
Ilissus."
Springs, in various parts of this and other
countries, alternately ebbing and flowing, have
been, and are still, in some cases, supposed to
be under the ban of witchcraft. And yet the
phenomena are easily explained by natural
laws. If the shorter end of a bent tube, A, whose
branches are of an unequal length, be placed in
a basin of water, and the air is drawn from it,
we have a syphon, which will decant the water
Di itiz by Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
60 TERRESTRIAL
PBENOIIENA.
:nto any vessel. Now. such tubes as these
are naturally formed in the earth, and if the
water be drained into a cavity, B, having a
syphon-Jike channel, c, it is evident that it will
Howas long as the syphon can act, and it ,rill
then cease.
Seneca describes a spring near to Tempe, .
in Thessaly, the ,vaters of which are fatal to
animals, and penetrate iron and copper. Yet,
it is probable, as Dr. Thomson states, that
" this spring contained ·either free sulphuric
acid, or a highly acidulous salt of that acid.
This acid has been detected in a free state, as
well as hydrochloric acid, in _thewater of the
Rio Vindagre, which descends from the volcano
of Paraie, in Columbia, South America. Sul-
phuric acid is also found in the waters of other
volcanic regions. The sour springs of Byron,
in the Genessee country, about sixty miles
south of the Erie canal, contain sulphuric acid.
. .
Di itiz by Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Such waters would rapidly corrode both iron
and copper, converting the former into green,
the latter into blue vitriol-sulphates of both
metals."•
It would be easy to extend these instances,
in connexion with the phenomena of the globe,
but the present will suffice to show that a little
knowledge of natural science is an antidote
tn many superstitions. We proceed now to
illustrations of agencies in active operation or
a different character. .
•
Di itiz 'I
• Plliloeophy of Magic.
Ori gl rid! 'mm
INDIANA UNIVERSITY
CHAPTER V.
Qiemical wooden-Ice obtained in a red-bot veuel-The
corpse candles of Walea-Luminous appe_arancea after
death-Sadoomeb the magician-The laughing gaa-Sul-
phuric ether-Chloroform-Gunpowder compared with
gun-cotton.
THEword chemistry is, probably, derived from
a Coptic root, signifying obscure or secret; and
the German word geheimis traced to the same
origin. The objects of this department of
science are, to investigate the nature and pro-
perties of the elements of matter and their
mutual actions and combinations; to ascertain
the proportions in which they unite and the
modes of separating them when united; and to
inquire into the laws which affect and rule these
agencies. A few of the wonders connected
with this science may, therefore, appropriately
follow the terrestrial phenomena which have
just been considered.
Di itiz by
The Rom~sh ehurch has rendered chemistry
available in connexion with one of its prodigies,
the so-called blood of St. Januarius. A substance
is shown to the deluded worshippers in a phial,
appearing in a congealed state; but, as masses
are performed by the priests, it becomes fluid.
Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
au.ion UJ:,.L,Ui1lU~.
The illusion practised in this ~ase may, how-
ever, be easily effected by reddening sulphuric
ether with orchanet, the onoamaof Linnaeus, and
then saturating the tincture with spermaceti.
This preparation is solid at ten degrees above
the freezing point, and melts and boils at twenty
degrees. Let the phial which contains it when
coagulated, be held in the hand for a few min-
utes, and the temperature of the substance
rises, and it becomes fluid. Even the warmth
-afa public assembly is sufficient for this pur-
pose.
Marcms,the chief of one of the sects in the
second century, who wished to amalgamate
with Christianity the doctrines and rules of
pagan rites,filled with white wine three cups
of transparent glass; and, while he was pray-
ing, the liquid in one of the cups became like
blood; in another, of a purple colour ; and
in the third, sky-blue. But these effects might
easily be produced by chemical action. Pro-
fess-or Beyruss, at the court of the duke of
Brunswick, promised that his white dress should
become red during a repast; and the change
took place, to the astonishment of the prince
and his guests. M. Vogel, who relates this
fact, does not reveal the means employed ; but
observes that, by pouring lime-water on the
juice of beet-root; a colourless liquid is obtained,
that a piece of cloth dipped in it and quickly
dried becomes red in a few hours by the contact
of the· air alone; and that this effect may be
accelerated in a room where champagne and
Ori"'
rial from
Di itiz by
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
64 CHEMICAL
WONDERS.
other beverages charged with carbonic acid
1sasare abundantly used. Still more rapidly
n1ight the chang~ be .effected in some temple,
in the midst of rising incense and burning
torches; and the veil which covered things
deemed sacred, might thus have been seen to
change from white to the colour of blood-a
presage of fearfu.ldisasters.
A series of remarkable experiments was per-
formed by professor Boutigny, .at the British
Association at Cambridge, in 1845. He com-
menced by showing, that when cold water is
po~red on a hot metallic surface, the heat is not
communicated to it; and that the water assumes
a spheroidal form, and continues to roll about,
upheld at a minute distance from the heated
surface, without boiling. The water was poured
into a hot platinum cup kept in rapid motion,
and resembled a small globe of glass dancing
about. There was no hissing noise nor appear-
ance of steam, though the globule of water
must, nevertheless, have evaporated rapidly;
for, after gradually diminishing in size, in the
course of about t,vo minutes it disappeared.
The same result takes place when any substance
capable of assuming a globular form is placed
on a heated surface. In proof of this, the pro-
fessor placed in the heated cup of platinum,
iodine, ammonia, and some inflammable sub.:.
stances ; each of which became globular, and
danced about like the globule of water, bt!t
without emitting smell or vapour, or being
inflamed, witil the platinum cup was cooled.
Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Another experiment was yet more curious.
Professor Boutigny heated a silver weight, of
tbe same shape as the weight of a clock, until·
it was red-hot, and then Io:weredit by a wire
into a glass of cold water, without there being
any more indication of action in the water than
if the weight had been quite cold. Professor
Boutigny advanced no theory to account for
these peculiar actions, further than that a filin
of vapour intervenes between the heated body
and the substance, which prevents the com-
munication of heat. The facts, however, he
thought were of importance in a practical point
of view, both as regards the tempering of
metals, and in the explanation of the causes
of steam-boiler explosions. It would seem,
from experiments in tempering metals, that, if
the metal be tod much heated, the e1Fectof
plunging it into water will be diminished. In
steam-boilers, also, if the heated water be in-
troduced into a heated surface, the heat may
not be communicated· to the water, and the
boiler may become red hot, and without any
great emission of steam; until, at length, when
the boiler cools, a vast quantity of steam would
become suddenly generated, and the boiler
burst.
· The' last and most curious experiment per-
formed by professor Boutigny, was the freezing
of water in a red-hot vessel. Having heated a
platinum cup red-hot, he poured into it a small
quantity of water; which was kept in a globular
t=Jrm,as in the other experiments. He then
C
Ori"'
rial from
Di itiz by
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
tifj CHEMICAL
WONDERS.
poured into the cup some liquid sulphurous
acid; when a sudden evaporation ensued, and,
on quickly inverting the cup, there came out a
si:pall mass of ice. The principle of this ex..
periment, which called forth loud and continued
app1ause, is this :-sulphurous acid has the
pr<>pertyof boiling water when it is at a tem-
perature below the freezing point; and, when
poured into the heated vessel; the suddenness of
the evaporation occasions a degree of cold suffi-
cient to freeze water•.
Liquid carbonic acid takes a high position
for its freezing qualities. Mr. Adams, of
Kensington, manufactures this curious liquid as
an article of commerce, and has, occasionally,
as much as nine gallons of it in store. In
drawing it from its powerful reservoirs, it
evaporates so rapidly as to freeze, and it is then
a light porous mass, like snow. If a small
quantity of this is drenched with ether, the
degree of cold produced is even more intolerable
to the touch than boiling water ; a drop or two
of the mixture producing blisters, just as if the
skin had been burned l Air. Adams states
that, in eight minutes he has frozen a mass of
mercury weighing ten pounds.
In one department of knowledge-that of
vapours and gases-on which chemistry casts
so much light, we discover many remarkable
phenomena. Few persons have resided, for ex-
ample, in the fenny and swampy districts of our
island, without seeing, at least occasionally, the
ignisfatuus, Will-o'-the-wisp, or Jack-o'-lantern,
Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
..--- - -- ----
hoveringa fewfeetabove the surfaceofst,apant
water.
" Wild fires dancing o'er the heath,"
maybe observed, indeed, at almost all times ot
the year, but it is chiefly in autumn, and par-
ticularly in November, that they flit in muy
circles and irregular evolutions; aometimes at
the edge of a morass, over the tops of wit1lered
sedges,reeds, and brushwood; and, at others,
over palings and hedgerows, or the still surface
ofthe oozy bog.
It has been argued by some, that they are
eft'ects produced by luminous insects, as the
glow-worm, the gnat, and the mole-cricket.
But this theory is very unsatisfactory, and the
cause which is now generally acknowledged to
be the real one, is far more natural. There is
a substance r~dily obtained, but of very otFen-
sive odour, called phosphoret of lime; and, if a
piece of this be taken and dropped into a pool
of water, little flames will he seen on its surface.
These arise from the power of the substance to
decompose water, in consequence of which, the
hydrogen a111ends
to the surface, and ignites on
coming in contact with the air.
Dr. Weissenborn has given the following
interesting statements:-" In the year 1818,
I was fortunate enough to get ·a fine view
of the ignes fatui operating on an extensive
scale. I was ~en at Schnepfe~thal, in the
duchy of Gotha; and in a clear- November
-night,between eleven and twelve o'clock, when
c2
Ori"'
rial from
Di itiz by
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
68 CHEMICAL
WONDERS.
I had just undressed, the bright moonshine
allured me to the window, to survey the expanse
of boggy meadows, which spread two or three
English miles in length, a quarter-of-a-mile from
the foot of the hillock on which the house in
which I then was, is standing. Through the first
third of the meadows there was a winding rivulet,
of the breadth of seven or eight feet, which then
turns oiF into an artificial bed, whilst the old
bed continues in the direction of the meadows,
which are bouµded on one side by a range of
brushwood, and on the other by cultivated
grounds, with marshy dells here and there. My
intimate acquaintance with the locality, together
with the bright moonshine, enabled me to dis-
cover every object round the meadow-ground,
sufficiently well to judge of the position and
direction of the luminous phenomena, the dis-
play of which I saw as soon as I had posted
myself at the window. I perceived a number
of reddish yellow :flameson different part8
~f the
expanse of almost level ground. I descried,
perhaps, no more than six at a time, but dying
away and appearing in other places so rapidly,
that it was impossible to count them; but I
should say, on a rough calculation, there were
about twenty or twenty-five within a second.
Some were small and bur~d dimly; others
flashed with a bright flame, in a direction
almost parallel with the ground, and coinciding
with that of the wind, which was rather brisk.
After having for some time looked with amaze-
ment at the brilliant scene, ns a whole, I tried
Or1QI
rid! '11:)m
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
WILL·O'-THE-WISP. 69
to study its details, and soon found that the
flames which were nearest originated in a
quagmire, the position of which I knew exactly,
by a solitary cluster of willows; and I could
. trace a succession of flashes from that spot to a
certain point of the margin of the wood across
the rivulet and meadow. The distance of the
two points from each other was more than half-
a-mile, and the flames travelled over it, perhaps,
·in less than a second. The first flash was not
always observed in the immediate neighbour-
hood of the quagmire; but the succession of
flames lay always in the same straight line, and
in the direction of the wind; whilst other sets
were observed, though not with the same dis-
tinctness, in the more distant parts of the
meadow-ground.
"After about an hour, a bank of mist began
to overspread the meadows, but I saw the light
still glimmering through it, whilst I dressed
myself, in order to examine the phenomenon in
its laboratory. However, when I reached the
meadows, the atmospheric conditions which
gave rise to the ignes fatui had ceased to exist."
Weissenbom then expresses his belief that the
phosphoric hydrogen gas, exhaled by certain
swamps, is kindled into flame by cQming in
contact with the atmospheric air; but, as the
hydr gen is not saturated with phosphorus, (the
greater portion of the latter being precipitated
in passing through the water as red oxide of
phosphorus,) there is a certain electric condition .
of the atmosphere necessary to cause the com-
Di itiz by Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
70 CHEMICAL
WONDERS.
bustion. Thus, under common circumstances,
the gas is evolved and dissipated without being
observed; but when the state of the atmosphere
is competent to effectits combustion, the proper
degree of electrical tension is lost at the place
where the explosion is effected; and, until it is
restored, or the gas comes in contact with that
layer of the atmosphere which possesses the
requisite .degree of electrical tension, a consi-
derable body of bog gas may collect, and be
carried in the direction of the wind, so as to
give rise to a sort of quick fire, with occasional
flashes; in thoee places of the stream of gas
where there happens· to be a considerable
volume of it. The lights, which still frequently
excite apprehensions in Wales, and are popu-
larly termed "corpse candles," have the same
origin as the-" ignes fatui."
At the village of Wigmore, in Herefordshir~
there are fields which may be, and two houses
which -really are, illuminated with a natural
gas. This vapour, with which the subjacent
strata seem to be charged, is obtained in the
following manner :-a hole is made in the cellar
of the house, or other locality, with an iron
rod; a hollow tube is then placed therein, fitted
with a burner similar to those used for ordinary
gas-lights, and immediately on applying a flame
to the jet, a soft and brilliant light is obtained,
which may be kept burning at pleasure. The ·
gas is very pure, quite free from any offensive
smell, and does not stain the ceilings, as is
generally the case with the manufactured
Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
NATURAL.
GAS. 71
krticle. Besides lighting rooms, etc., it ha,
'Deenused for cooking ; and, indeed, seems
tapable of the same applications as prepared
carburetted hydrogen. t There are several fields
in which the phenomenon exists, and children
are seen boring holes and setting the gas on
fire for amusement. It is now several months
since the discovery was made ; and a great
many of the curious have visited, and still con-
tinue to visit, the spot.
If the Chineseare not manwacturers, they are,
nevertheless, gas consumers and employers on
a large scale; and have evidently been so, ages
before the knowledge of its application was
acquired by Europeans. Beds of coal are fre-
quently pierced by the borers of salt water;
and the inflammable gas is forced up in jets
twenty or thirty feet in height. From these
fountains, the vapour has been conveyed to the
salt-works in pipes, and there used for the
boiling and evaporation of the salt; other tubes
convey the gas intended for lighting the streets,
and the larger apartments and kitchens. As
there is still more gas than is required, the
excess is conducted beyond the limits of the
salt-works, and forms separate chimneys or
columns of flame.
A singular counterpart to this employment
of natural gas, is ,vitnessed in the valley of the
Kanawha, in Virginia. The origin, the means
of supply, the application to all the processes of
manufacturing salt, and of the appropriation of
the surplus for the purposesof illumination, are
Di itiz by Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
'12 CHEMICAL
WONDERS.
remarkably alike at such distant points as
China and the United States.
It has sometimes been stated of a departed
person, that a luminous a.ppearance wasobserved
to rest upon, and occasionally to surround a
corpse. Such an effect has been described as
supernatural-a Divine attestation to extra-
ordinary excellence ; and, doubtless, Roman
Catholics have n1ade the most of such circum-
stances in reference to those ,vhom they have
denominated saints; and to whom a place has
been assigned in their calendar. And yet there
was no departure in any such instance from the
ordinary laws of nature. Sir H. Marsh, in an
essay on " The Evolution of Light from the
Human Subject,'' states, that electric sparks
have been known to issue from the skin of some
individuals when rubbed lightly and quickly
with -a linen cloth. Not only }:lasthis physi-
cian heard of such cases, but two had actually
come under his observation.
lie was led to consider the subject by the
following statement made to him : " About an
hour and a half before my sister's death, we
were struck by appearances proceeding from
her head, in a diagonal direction. She was, at
the time, in a half-recumbent position, and per-
fectly tranquil. The light ,vas pale as the
moon, but quite evident to mamma, myself,
and $isters, who "rere watching over her at the
time. One of us, at first, thought that it was
lightning ; till, shortly after, ,ve fancied we
perceived a sort of tremulous glimmer playing
Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
LUMIMOUS APPEARANCES. "/D
round the head of the bed; and then, recollect-
ing that we had read something of a similar
nature having been observed previous to dis-
solution, we had candles brought into the room,
fearing our dear sister would perceive it, and
that it might disturb the tranquillity of her
last moments."
A similar appe.arance around the person,
and in the room, of a man who fell a sacrifice
to lingering disease in a remote district of the
south-west of Ireland, is recorded, All the
witnesses agree in having seen the light; many,
however, came to the conclusion that it was
caused by supernatural agency, and a proof of
miraculous interposition, and. even evidence of
Divine favour. Considerable excitement ,vu
occasioned in the south of Ireland by the fol-
lowing case, related by Dr. D. Donavan, in the
Dublin Medical Prus, Jan. 15, 1840 :-" I
was sent for," the Doctor says, "in December,
1828, to see Harrington. He had been under
the care of my predecessor, and had been en-
tered in the dispensary book as a phthisical
patient; and, on reference to my note-book, I
find that the stethoscopic and other jndications
of ph~is were indubitable. . He was· under
my care for about five years; during which
time, strange to say, the symptoms continued
at&tionary; and I had discontinued my attend-
ance for about two years, when the report
became general, t~at ~ystel'!oue lights ~ere
every night seen m his cabin. The subJect
attract,eda great deal of attention; and, like
C 3
Di itiz by Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
74 CHEMICAL
WONDERS.
everything else in Ireland, at once assumed a
sectarian complexion; some attributing the
light to the miraculous interference of Heaven;
others, to the practice of the black art. Not
regarding these views as affording an explana-
tion of the mystery, I determined to subject
the matter to the ordeal of my own senses;
and, for this purpose, visited the cabin for four-
teen nights; and on three nights, only, did I
witness anything unusual. Once I perceived .
a luminous fog, resembling the aurora borealis,
and twice ·I saw the scintillations, like the
sparkling phosphorescence sometimes exhibited
by the sea infusoria. From the close scrutiny
1 made, I can, with certainty, say, that no im-
position ,vas either employed or attempted.
How are these appearances to be accounted
for? In answering this question, I would ob-
serve, that they are never seen but in cases of
extensive disease, and when considerable alter-
ation of structure has taken place. Processes
analogous to decomposition are witnessed in
the h~man subject while the living principle
remains."
On these, and similar facts, Dr. Marsh re-
marks : '' Disease is but a step toward disso•
lution, in which the vital powers are impaired;
and, unless t4e malady be checked, by the use
of proper means, a period will quickly ap-
proach when the chemical action will entirely
prevail over the whole frame. Phosphorescent
1natter n1ay be generated in organic bodies at
a period of incipient decomposition; and when
Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
we consider that phosphuretted hydrogen un-
dergoes spontaneous combustion, when brought
in contact with the oxygen of the atmosphere,
and that the component parts of which this
gas is formed exist in the body in great abun-
dance, an easy solation is at hand, accounting
for the luminous appearances which have been
witnessed in dissecting-rooms, in burial-grounds,
and in marine substances, as well as on the
approach of dissolution."
The Arabs are well known as believers in
wonders ; and of Qne of their magicians, named
Sadoomeh, the following story is told. "In .
order to give one of his friends a treat, he took
him to the distance of about half-an-hour's
walk into the desert, on the north of Cairo, where
they both sat down upon the pebbly and sandy
plain; and the magician having uttered a spell,
they suddenly foqnd themselves in the midst or
a garden, like one of the gardens of Paradise,
abounding with flowers and fruit-trees of every
kind, springing up from a soil covered with
verdure brilliant as the emerald, and irrigated
by numerous streamlets of the purest ,vater.
A repast of the most delicious viands and fruit
was spread before them by invisible hands;
and they both ate and drank to satiety, taking
copious draughts of the various wines. At
length the magician's guest sank into a deep
sleep, and when he awoke he found himself
again in the pebbly and sandy plain, with
Sadoomeh still by his side." "The reader will
probably attribute this vision," says Mr. Lane,
Di itiz by
Or1QI
r01 'rom
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
,u
who relates the tale, " to a dose of opiun1 or
some similar drug; and such I suppose to have
been the means employed ; for I cannot doubt
the integrity of the narrat.o~, though he would
not admit such an explanation; regarding the
whole as an affair of magic, 'jinn,' or genii.''
A story of Gassendi, one of the most dis-
tinguished of naturalists, mathematicians, and
philosophers of France, in the sixteenth cen-
tury, will place this solution in a still clearer
light. As he was taking a morning walk near
Deigne, in Provence, his ears were assailed by
repeated exclamations of " A sorcerer ! a sor-
cerer I" On glancing behind him, he beheld a
mean and simple-looking man, with his hands
tied, whom a mob of the country-people were
hurrying to prison. Gassendi's character and
learning had given him great authority with
them, and he desired to be left alone with the
man. They immediately surrendered him,
and Gassendi said to him, in private,• " My
friend, you must tell me sincerely, whether you
have tnade a compact with the devil or not: it
you confess it, I will give you your liberty im-
mediately; but, if you refuse to tell me, I will
give you immediately int.o the hands of a ma-
gistrate." The man answered, "Sir, I will
own that I go to a meeting of wizards every
day. One of my friends has given me a drug,
which I take to effect this, and I have been
received as a sorcerer these three ye.ars." He
then described the proceedings of these meet-
ings, and spoke of the duferent devils,as if he
Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
THE SORCERER
UNDECEIVED. 77
had been all his life acquainted with then1.
" Show me," said Gassendi, " the dn1g which
you take to attend this infernal meeting, for I
intend to go there with you to-night." The
man replied, " As you please, Sir; I will take
you at midnight, as soon as the clock strikes
twelve." Accordingly, he met Gassendi at the
appointed hour, and, showing him two boluses,
each of the size of a walnut, he desired him to
swallow one, as soon asGa111endi
.Iiad seen him
swallow the other, and then they lay down to-
gether on a goat-skin. The man soon fell asleep,
but Gassendi i:emained awake and watched him,
and perceived'tbat he was greatly disturbed in
his slumbers, and writhed and twisted his body
about, as if he bad been troubled by bad
dreams. At the expiration of five or six hours
he awoke, and said to GasHendi, " I am sure,
Sir, you ought to be satisfied with the manner
in wbirch the great goat received you; _hecon-
:ferred on you a high honour wl1enhe permitted
you to kiss his tail the first time he ever saw
you." It ,vas thus apparent that the dele-
terious opiate had operated upon his imagina-
tion. Gassendi, compassionating his weakness
and credulity, took pains to convince him of
his self-delusion; and, sho,ving him the bolus,
he gave it to a dog, who soon fell asleep, and
suffered great convulsions. 'rhe poor fellow
was set at liberty to undeceive his brethren,
·whohad like him, been h1ll~dby the noxious
drugj*in1agining themselves sorcerers.
Jn India t11ere is a native plant, which, after
Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
78 CHElfiCALWONDERS.
it has Bowered, is dried and sold in the bazaars
of Calcutta, for smoking. The Hindoos call it
" ganpah," and they give the name of " bang" or
" subjee" to the large leaves and capsules ,vhich
they use for the same purpose. The plant is
a species of hemp; the smoking of which is
considered so delightful, according to Dr.
Thomson, as to have been denominated by such
epithets as "Assuager of sorrow," "Increaser
of pleasure,"" Cementer of friendship,"" Laugh-
ter-mover," and others of the same kind.
On the same authority it is stated, that in
Nepaul, the l'esin only is used; in some places
it is collected by native coolies,walking through
the fields of hemp at the time the plants give
forth the resin, which, adhering to the skin, is
scraped off'from it, and kneaded into balls. It
is taken in doses, from a grain to two grains,
and causes a delightful delirium. When re-
peated, however, it is followed by catalepsy, or
that state of insensibility which allows the body
to be moulded into any form like a Dutch-
jointed doll, the limbs remaining in the position
in which they. were placed, though contrary to
the law of gravity, and continuing so for many
hours.
We are well acquainted with various means
of acting in an extraordinary manner on the
-human frame. The writer, in common with
multitudes, has witnessed, for example, the
operation of nitrous oxide, often called " the
laughing-gas." It acts, however, very differ- ·
ently on. different persons; some laugh immo-
Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
'111B
LAUGIIING-GAS. 79
derately, others become depressed, others assume
the airs of vanity and importance which accord
with their most cherished dispositions; and
some can only be forcibly restrained from deeds
of great violence. It is certainly a most sin-
gular sight to see a person laughing most
boi&t,erously,or strutting with all the hauteur
of a newly-made potentate, suddenly subside as
the action of the gas ceases, into a very unob-
tmsive individual.
We may now briefly allude t;o one of the moat
extraordinary applications of the present times.
The late air Humphry Davy made many ex-
periments on the effects of various gases on the
human lungs. He found, in his own person,
that the inhalation of nitrous oxide removed
head-ache, and greatly aS8Uaged
the pain of cut-
ting a wisdom-tooth. . In his works, edited by
Dr. Jolin Davy, is the following passage:-
" As nitrous oxide, in its extensive operation,
appears capable of destroying physical pain, it
may probably be used· with advantage during
surgical operatioM in which no great effusion
of blood takes place." Here is the germ of the
recent application of ether. ·
· "The e:ffectsof this inhalation; as indicated
by the patient's own recollection," says a writer
in the North British Review," are very various.
In general they are somewhat as follows:-A
pleasing sense of soothing succeeds the first
irksomeness of the pungent vapour-a soothing
of both mind and body. Ringing in the ears
takes place, with some confusion of sight and
Di itiz by
Or1QI
r01 'rom
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
OU CHEIIICAL WONDERS.
•
intcllect:ual perception. The limbs are felt
·cold and powerless; the hands and feet first,
then the knees; and the feeling is as if these
parts had ceased to be peculiar property, and
dropped away. This sensation may gradually
creep over the whole frame ; the patient becom-
ing, in more senses than one, truly etherealized;
reduced to the condition of no body and aQ.
soul. The objects around are either lost sight
of or strangely perverted; fancied shadows flit
before the eyes, and then a dream sets in-
sometimes calm and placid, sometimes active
and bustling, sometimes very pleasurable,
sometimes frightful, as a nightmare. Emerging,
the figures and scenes shift rapidly, and grow
fainter and fainter; present objects are caught
by the eye once more, the ringing of the ears
is heard again, consciousness and self-control
return, a tendency to excited talking is very
manifest, movement is unsteady, and, both in
mind and body, a kind of intoxication is de-
clared. It is, however, of a light and airy
kind; very pure, very pleasant, and very pass-
ing, and, when gone, leaving very little trace
behind. · • .
" Experience has fully shown that the brain
may be acted on so as to annihilate, for the
time, what may be termed the faculty of feel-
ing pain ; the organ of general sense may be
lulled int-0 profound sleep, while the organ of
special sense, and the organ of intellectual
function remain wide awake, active, and busily
employed. The patient may feel no pain under
Or1QI
r01 'rom
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
INHALATIONOF ETHER.
verycmel cutting, and yet he may see, hear,
taste, and smell, as well as ever, to all appear-
ance; and he may also be perfectly conscioua
of everything within reach of his observation-
able to reason on such events most lucidly, and
able to retain both the events and the reason-
ing in his memory afterwards. We have seen
a patient following the operator with her eyes
>nost intelligently and watchfully, as he shifted
hi.Aplace near her, lifted his knife, and pro-
~ed to use it ; wincing not at all during its
use ; answering questions by gesture, very
readily and plainly ; and, after the operation
was over, narrating everyevent as it occurred ;
declaring that she knew and saw all ; stating
that she knew and felt that she was beingcut,and
yet tllat she felt no pain whatever. Patients
have said, quietly, 'You are sawing now,' dur-
ing the use of the saw in amputation ; and
nfterwards they have declared most solemnly,
that though quite conscious of that part of the
operation, yet they felt no pain. We have
seen a patient enduring amputation of a limb
.without any sign of suWering,opening her eyes
during the performan~, at its most painful
part, descrying a country practitioner at some
distance-under whose care she had formerly
been, and whom she had not seen for some
considerable time-addressing him by name,
and requesting that he might not leave town
without seeing her."
Since the period to which the writer just
quoted refers, Dr. Simpson, of F..,dinburgh,has
Di itiz by Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
82 CHEMICAL
WONDERS.
discovered a substitute for sulphuric ether--
chloroform, or the perchloride of formyle. It is
stated to possess over sulphuric ether the follow-
ing advantages :-1. A greatly less quantity
of chloroform than of ether is requisite to pro-
duce the desired e:ffect. 2. Its action is much
more rapid and complete, and generally more
enduring. 8. The inhalation and influence or
chloroform are far more agreeable and pleasant
than those of ether. 4. The use of chloroform
is less expensive thin that of ether. 6. Its
odour is not unpleasant ; nor does it exhale
in a disagreeable form from the lungs of the
patient, as so generally happens with sulphuric
ether. 6. Being required in much less quan-
tity, it is much more port.able and transmiu-
ible than sulphuric ether. 7. No special kind
of inhaler or in.strument is necessary for its ex-
hibition. A little of the liquid diffused upon
the interior of a hollow-shaped sponge, or on a
pocket-handkerchief, or a piece of linen or
paper, or held over the mouth and nostrils, so
as to be fully inhaled, generally suffices, in
.
11bouta minute or two, to produce the effect.
This agent, how(tver,v requires to be used to
annul pain under the direction of a judicious
medical practitioner; it may otherwise be pro-
ductive of serious consequences. ·
A prodigious force often arises from chemical
affinity. Of this, gunpowder presents a familiar
instance. It is formed of nitre, sulphur, and
charcoal, which, in the ordinary state, are only
combined mechanically : hut no socner is this
Or1QI
r01 'rom
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
OUN-COTTON. 83
compound ignited, than these mbstances are
brought, by cl1emical action, into such close
contact, as to evolve a mighty and destructive
power. It seemed likely to be thrown into the
shade by the discovery of gun-cotton as an ex-
plosive agent, which excited extraordinary in-
terest throughout Europe. ~ projectile expe-
riments being made, a gun, charged with thirty
grains of prepared cotton, prope1led an equal
charge of shot, with greater force and precision,
at a distance of forty yards, than were gained by
the same gun loaded with a hundred-and-twenty
grains of gunpowder. A rifle, charged with
fifty-four and-a-half ~ains of gunpowder, sent
a ball through seven boards, half-an-inch in
thickness, at a diatance of forty yards; the
same rifle, charged with forty grains of gun-
cotton, caused the ball to enter the eighth board.
Another rifle, which had been used for elephant-
shooting, and conBequently carried a much
larger balI, charged with forty grains of gnn-
·cotton, forced the ball through eight boards,
at a distance of ninety yards. In no cue was
the discharge accompanied by a greaim recoil
than usual ; and the reports were not louder
than those accompanying the discharge of guns
and rifles loaded with gunpowder. According
to the specification of the patentee, M. Schon-
bein, cotton ie preferred for this purpose, freed
from extraneous matters; and it is considered
desirable to operate on the clean fibres of the
cotton in a dry state, by means of nitric and
sulphuric acids. These are mixed together in
Di itiz by
Or1QI
rid! '11:)m
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
84
•
CHEMICAL
WONDEit~.
the proportion of one measure of nitric acid to
three measures of sulphuric acid, in any suit-
able or convenient vessel not liable to be
affected by the acids. A great degree of heat
being generated by the mixture, it is left to
cool until its temperature falls to sixty or fifty
degrees Fahrenheit. The cotton is then im-
mersed in it ; and, in order that it may become
thoroughly saturated with the acids, it is stirred
with a rod of glass, or other material, not
affected by the acids. The cotton should be
introduced in as open a state as prnctjcable.
The acids are then poured or drawn off',and
the cotton gently pressed by a presser of glaz~d
earthenware, to take out the acids, after which
it is covered up in the vessel, and allowed to
stand for about an hour. It is subsequently
washed in a continuous :flowof water, until the
presence of the acids is not indicated by the
ordinary test of litmus paper. To remove any
uncombined portions of the acids which may
remain after the cleansing process, the patentee
dips the cotton in a weak solution of carbon~te
of potash, composed of one ounce of carbonate
of potash to one gallon of water, a~d partially
dries it by pressing, us before. The cotton is
then highly explosive, and n1ay be used in that
state ; but, to increase its explosive power, it is
dipped in a weak solution of nitrate of potash,
and, lastly, dried in a room heated by hot air,
or steam, to about one hundred and fifty degrees
Fahrenheit.
The advantages and disadvantages of this
Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
substance have thus been stated by professor ·
'Brande :-" The disadvantages are, that the
· effects are less regular than those of gunpow-
der ; that it is more dangerous, because inflam-
ing at a lower temperature ; that it does not
take fire ,vhen compressed in tubes ; that it
burns slowly in all kinds of cartridges; that
guns and pistols must be altered to admit of
its use; that it is not adapted for the use of the
army; that the barrel of the gun is moistened
by the water produced during combustion.
The advantages, on the other hand, may be
stated as follows :-Its extreme cleanliness,
leaving no residue after combustion ; its free-
dom from all bad smell ; the facility and the
safety of its preparation; the possessing treble
the force of gunpowder; ·itsexplosion producing
no smoke, and less noise than that of gun-
powder; its fi)amP.ntary nature admitting of its
being used over head in mining operations ;
its not being liable (as a granulated substance
is) to the accidents of leakage ; its occasioning
very little recoil."-Every benevolent mind must
wish to hear no more of '' the confused noise of
battle and of garments rolled in blood;" and
that the time may soon arrive when men shall
" beat their swords into ploughshares, and
their spears into pruning-hooks ;" when " they
shall learn war no more," but yield themselves
heartily and devotedly to the benjgnant sway
of the Prince of peace. There seems, however,
no reason to conclude that gun-cotton will be
employedfor any hostile purpose, the Bonrd of
Di itiz by Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
CHEMICAL
WONDERS.
Ordnance having definitely decided against its
adoption in the military and naval services. The
principal objection to it is, the very low tem-
perature at which it explodes. The mere heat-
ing of a gun, from a number of charges success-
ive!y fired, has been proved sufficient to cause
an instant explosion of gun-cotton.
In mining, it b likely to be of great use. In
the slate-quarries at Penrhyns it has been found
far superior to gunpowder. A huge mass ot
sixty tons' weight, for instance, was gently
pushed from its firmly compacted bed by the
explosion of only eigqt ounces of cotton, while
the slate was not splintered. In other great
works it will also be of service. In a cutting
on the Syston and Peterborough railway, not far
from Stamford, experiment.a showed the ave-
rage powers of the gun-cotton to be in the
proportion of one to six of gunpowder ; so that,
in a hard freestone foundation, about five feet
thick, and with an entire depth of twenty-eight
feet, where six holes were necessary for gun-
powder, only one was required for gun-cotton.
In all blasting operations, whether in open cut-
tings, tunnels, or deep mines, a great saving or
time, labour, and cost, is thus likely t,o be
effected.
Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
CHAPTER VI.
Lkllt and its phenomena-Magic oicturee-The oi,taealpara-
dox-Chinese metallic mirron-~ffect of an optlcal in1tru-
ment on a 1upentitious mind-Origin of photography-The
Talbotype-The Daguerreotype-Sunlight pictures.
THE cause of those sensations which we refer
to the eyes, or that which produces the sense
of seeing, is light. The phenomena of vision
have always been regarded as among the most
interesting branches of natural science. The
knowledge of the laws which regulate the phe-
nomena of .light, constitutes the science of op-
tics, which explains the cause of many most
striking illusions.
Magic pictures have been produced, which,
when seen in a certain point through a glass,
exhibit an object different from that be held by
the naked eye. Niceron tells us that he ex.-.
ecuted at Paris, and deposited in the library of
the Minimes of the Place .Royale, a picture of
this kind ; when seen by the naked eye, it
represented fifteen portraits of Turkish sultans,
but, when viewed through the glass, it was n.
portrait of Louis xn1.
Di itiz by
Or1QI
r01 'rom
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
'fhe writer has often seen a singular trans-
formation effected by an ingenious device, called
the optical paradox: thus an eagle may be
changed into a lion, and a dog into a cat.
For this purpose,
D a wooden three-
.._._.__, sided box must
c be pre.pared, and
through the open
part may slide the
various drawings
to be used, as B.
Connected with
this, there must be
a pillar, c, and
a horizontal bar
holding a tube, n,
having in it a glass placed exactly over the
centre. The ohange is partly dependent
on the glass, the sides of .which are flat and
diverge from it~ hexagonal base upwards, t·o a
E point in the axis of the glass,
~ like a pyrami4, E, forming an
isosceles ttjangle. . All th:at is
now necessary to the completion
of the change, is in the border of the drawing,
in which the various parts required for the
new figure are cleverly introduced ; so that
·when the distance of the glass from the eye
is rightly adjusted, each angular side will take
up its portion from the border, and present to
the eye the various parts in an entire figure.
The shape of the glass prevents tbe &f
pearanqe
Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
CUINESEMAGICMIRROBS. ~~
of any particular :figure iri the centre, as the
eagle, for instance; «bile the lion, arranged in ·
portions and drawn on the circle of refraction
at six different parts of the border, yet artfully
disguised by blending with it, the transforma-
tion will be completely produced.
A paper has lately been read to the Academy
of Sciences at Paris, by M. Stanislaus Julien,
on the metallic mirrors made in China, and to
which the name of " magic mirrors " has been
given. Hitherto all attempts by Europeans to
obtain information as to the process, in the
localities where they are manufactured, have
proved failures, some of the persons applied to
being unwilling to reveal the secret, and others
being ignorant of the process. These mirrors .
arecalled magical, because, if they receive.the
rays of the sun on their polished surface, the
characters, or flowers in·relief,whjch exist on
the other side, are faithfully reproduced. The
following information has been obtained by M.
Julien, from the writings of an author named
Ou-tseu-hing, who lived between 1260 and
1341 :-" The cause of this phenomenon is the
distinct use of fine copper and rough copper.
. If, on the under side, there be pr~uced, by
casting in a mould, the figure of a dragon in a
circle, there is then engraved deeply on the
disc a dragon exactly similar. Then, the parts
which have been cut are~ filled with rather
rough copper; and this is, by the action of fire,
incorporated with the other metal, which .is of
a finer nature. The face of the mirror is next
Di itiz by Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
·-...
Di itiz by
90 PBENOMXNA
or LIQRT.
prepared, and a slight coating of tin is spread
»ver it. If the polished disc of a mirror so
prepared be turned t;owards the sun, and the
image be reflected on a wall, it presents dis-
tinctly the clear portion and the dark portion,
the one of the fine, and the other of the rough
copper." Ou-tseu-hing states, that he had
ascertained this by a careful inspection of the
fr.cigmentsof a broken mirror.
It is easy for an ignorant and superstitious
mind to confound a very har,JDlessand simple
instrument with one of magical power. We
have an example of this in Dodwell's descrip-
tion of his residence at Athens. On his first
admission within the venerable walls of the
Acropolis, it was necessary to o1Fer a small
1>resentto the disdar, or Turkish governor,
and an additional sum to make drawings and
observations without being molested by the
servants of the garrison. The disdar proved
to be a man of bad faith and insatiable rapa -
city, and, after experiencing numerous vexa-
tions from the mercenary Turk, Dodwell was
at length released from his importunities by a
singular circumstance. ·As he was one day
engaged in drawing the Parthenon, with the
aid of his camera obscura, the disdar, whose
surprise was excited by the novelty of the
sight, asked, with a sort of fretful inquietude,
what new conjuration he ,,.as performing with
that extraordinary machine. Dodwell endea-
voured to explain it, by putting in a clean sheet
of paper, and making him look at the instru-
Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
I..,
THE DISDil PERPLEXED. 91
.
ment ; but he no sooner saw the Temple of
Minerva reflected on the paper in all its lines
and colours, than he imagined the eff'ectwas
produced by some magical process ; his aAto-
nishment appeared mingled with alarm, and,
stroking his long black beard, he repeated seve-
ral times the words Allah, Masch-Allah-a term
of admiration with the Turks, signifying that
which is made by God.
Again he looked into the camera obscura,
with a kind of cautious diffidence, and, at that
moment, sorne of his soldiers happening to pass
before the re1lecting-glass,were beheld by the
astonished disdar walking upon the· paper.
He now became outrageous ; he assailed Dod-
well with various opprobrioua epithets, one of
which was Bonap~the appellation being
at the time synonymous to that of magician, or
of any one supposed to be endowed with super-
natural talents-and declared that, if Dodwell
chose, he might take away all the stones in the
temple, but that he would not permit his sol-
diers to be conjured into a box. " When I
found," says Dodwell, " that it was no use to
reason -withhis ignorance, I changed my tone,
and told him that, if he did not leave me un-
molested, I would put him into my box; and
that he should find it a very difficult matter to
get out again. His alarm was now visible;
he immediately retired, and ever after stared
at me with a mixture of apprehension and
amazement. When he saw me come to the
Acropolis,he carefully avoided my approach;
Di itiz by
Or1QI
r01 'rom
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
92' PHENOMENAOF LIGHT.
and never afterwards gave me any further
molestation."
The portable camera obscura, represented
by the diagran1, has often yielded much plea-
sure in the domestic circle, while the larger
ones, ,vhich are publicly exhibited, are high ly
interesting . No person, perhaps, has witnessed
the neatness of outline, the precision of form,
the truth of colouring, and the sweet gradatio ns
of tint, thus apparent, without regretting that
an imagery so exquisite and faithful to natur e
could not be made to fix itself permanently on
the tablet of the machine. Yet, in the esti-
mation of all, such a wish seemed destined to
take its place among other dreams of beautif ul
things; the splendid but impracticable con-
ceptions in which men of science and ardent
temperament have sometimes indulged. Such
a dream, however, has been realized of late.
Mr. Thomas Wedgewood, the celebrat ed
porcelain manufacturer, so early as 1802, pub-
lished, in the journals of the Royal Instituti on,
Digitizedi::; Go gle 0!1glM 'mm
INDIA~ UNIVERSfTY
a method of copying paintings upon glass, and
of making profiles by the agency of light upon
nitrate of silver. The experiments he made
were repeated by sir Hu.mphry Davy ; but
several yearsafter, MM. Niepc~ and Daguerre,
and Mr. Fox Talbot, laid the foundation of
the present state of photographic drawing.
The former engaged in a long series of experi-
ments to render metallic surfaces peculiarly
sensitive; the aim of the latter was to produce
this effect on paper. The camera obscura
used for this purpose-is a rectangular box, with
a double convex lens, A, at one end, and a
glass reflector, B, which is generally a piece of
looking-glass, at the other. Now, supposing
the rays of light to proceed from an extensive
landscape, and pass through this small convex
lens, as we ,veil know they may do, what will
be the effect produced ? The scene will, in
the first place, be tlu·own on the reflector,
which is fixed at an angle of forty-five degrees
to the horizon. Now it follows, from a law
wellkno,vn to opticians, that these rJ.ys ,vill be
reflected to the top of the box, immediately
over the mirror; so that if a ground glass, or
·&rJ.y
other medium capable of receiving the
Di itiz by Ori"'
rial from
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
reflected image, be placed there, a representa-
tion of the landscape may be observed. As
then, it is proved, by innumerable experiments,
that reflected light has, in proportion to its
power, as much influence on prepared or pho-
tographic paper, as the direct rays of the sun;
it follows that, if a piece of it be placed in the
same situation as the ground glass, the re-
flected image, be it a landscape, a figure, or an
artificial object, will be formed on it. All that
is, therefore, required to be done, in using the
camera obscura for photographic drawing, is to
place upon the opening at the top of the box
the prepared paper, and immediately to cover
it with the lid, c, so that it may not be acted
upon by any other light than that reflected
from the mirror. The time required for pro-
ducing the necessary effect will depend on
several circumstances, such as the preparation
of the paper and the intensity of the light when
the experiment is made; the latter, however,
is by far the more important. On a bright
sun-shining day, the drawing will be produced
in one-half the time, and with far more sharp-
ness of outline, than on a dull wintry day,
when the sun struggles with the mists by
which its radiant beams are encumbered.-
"The Pencil of Nature," is the expressive title
of a collection of photographic drawings, pro-
duced by Mr. Talbot. Upon the third part of
this work, we find the following acute criticism
in the Athen<BUm,
No. 920.
" The subjects are ' 'fhe Entrance Gateway of
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Queen's College, Oxford;' ' The Ladder,' in
which we have three figures from the life ;
and ' A View of the Author's Residence,
Lacock Abbey, in Wiltshire.' In the first ot
these, the truth-telling character of photo-
graphic pictures is pleasingly shown. It ap-
pears, by the turret clock, that the view was
taken a little after two, when the sun was shin-
ingobliquely upon the building. The story of
everystone is told, and the crumbling of its
surfaceunder the action of atmospheric infiu-
ences is distinctly marked. The figures in
' The Ladder' are prettily arranged, but the
faceof the boy is distorted, from the circum-
stanceof its being so very near the edge of the
field of vieV? embraced by the lens of the
camera obscura. In looking at this photo-
graph,we are led at once to reflect on the truth
to nature observed by Rembrandt, in the dis-
position of his lights and shadows. We have
no violent contrasts; even the highest lights
and the deepest shadows seem to melt into each
other, and the middle tints are but the har-
monizing gradations. Without the aid of
colour,with simple brown and white, so charm-
ing a result is produced, that, looking at the
picture from a little distance, we are almost led
to fancythat the introduction of colour would
add nothing to its charm." _
The following is ~he patent process for ob-
taining a negative picture :-Take a sheet of
paper,with a smooth su.rfacet and a close and
even texture, and without the water-mark, and
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
tlV
"'ash one side of it, by means of a soft camel's•
hair brush, with a solution composed of one
hundred grains of crystallized nitrate of silver
dissolved in six ounces of distilled water,
having previously marked with. a cross the side
which is to be washed. When the paper has
been dried cautiously at the fire, or spon-
taneously in the dark, immerse it for a few
n1inutes (two minutes, at a temperature of
sixty-five degrees,) in a solution of iodide of
potassium, consisting of five hundred grains to
one pint of distilled water. The paper is then
to be dipped in water, and then dried, by ap-
plying blotting-paper to it lightly, and after-
wards exposing it to the l1eat of a fire, or
allowing it to dry spontaneously. The paper
thus prepared is called iodized paper, and may
be kept for any length of time .in a portfolio
not exposed to light. When a sheet of paper
is required for use, wash it with the following
solution, which we shall call No. 1; take one
hundred grains of nitrate of silver, dissolved in
two ounces of distilled ,vater, and add to this
one-third of its volume of strong acetic acid.
Make another solution, No. 2, by dissolving
crystallized gallic acid in cold distilled water,
and then mix the two solutions together in
equal proportions, and in no greater quantity
than is required for immediate use, as it will
not keep long without spoiling. This mixture,
called gallo-nitrate of silver, by the patentee,
is then to be spread, by a soft camel's-hair
brusl1,. on the marked side of the iodi;.~ naper;
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
"THE PENCIL OF NATURE." 97
and, aner allowing the paper to remain hnlf-
a-minute to absorb the solution, it should be
dipped in distilled water and dried lightly; first
with blotting-paper, and then by holding the
paper at a considerable distance from the fire.
When dry, the paper is ready~ and it is ad-
,·isable to use it within a few hours.
The paper, which is highly sensitive tolight,
must now be placed in the camera obscura, in
order to receive on its marked surface a dis-
tinct image of the landscape or person whose
· picture is required. After re1naining in the
camera from ten seconds to several minutes,
according to the intensity of the light, it is
taken out of the camera in a dark room. If
the object has been strongly illuminated, or if
the paper has been long in the camera, a sen-
sible picture will be seen on the paper; but, if
the time of exposure has been short, or the
illumination feeble, the paper will " appear
entirely blank." An invisible image, however,
is impressed on the paper, and may be ren-
dered apparent by the following process :-
Take some of the gallo-nitrate of silver, and,
with a soft camel's-hair brush, wash the paper
all o\'cr with this liquid, then hold it before a
gentle fire, and, in a short time, the image will
begin to appear; and those parts upon which
the light has acted most strongly will become
brown or biack, while the others remain white.
The image continues to grow more and more
distinct for some time, and, when it becon1es
IUfficientJy
so, the operation must be tern1inated,
D
Di itiz y g a.1 glrial 'rom
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
98 PHENOMENA
OF LIGH'l'.
and the picture fixed. In order to effect this,
the paper must be dipped first int.owater, then
partly dried by blotting-paper,. and afterwards
washed with a solution of bromide of potassium,
consisting of one hundred grains of the salt,
dissolved in eight or ten ounces of water. The
picture is then finally washed in water and
dried as before. In place of bromide of pot-
assium, a strong solution of common salt niay
be used.
By this process ,ve get a negative picture-
having the lights dark and the shades light-
and from it positive pictures may be obtained as
follows:-Dip a sheet of good paper in a solution
of common salt, consisting of one part of a satu-
rated solution, to eight parts of water, and dry
it first with blotting-paper, and then spontane-
. ously. Mark one of its sides, and wash that side
with a solution of nitrate of silver, which we
shall call No. 3, consisting of eighty grains of
salt, to one ounce of distilled water. When this
paper is dry, place it with its marked side
uppermost on a fiat board or surface of any
kind, and above it put the negative picture,
which should be pressed against the nit.rated or
positive _paper by means of a glass plate and
screws. In the course of ten or fifteen minutes
of a bright sunshine, or· of several hours· of
common daylight, a fine positive picture wiUbe
found on the paper beneath the negative picture.
When this picture ·has been well washed or
soaked in water, it is washed oYer with the
10lution of bromide of potasshun, alread1
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
mentioned, or plunged in a strong solution of
common salt~•
A aingular result of the application of this
invention occurred to an accomplished traveller,
who ascended Mount Etna, in order to obtain
representations of that remarkable volcano. No
sooner was the camera fixed on the edge of the
crat.er, and the sensitive paper introduced, than
a partial irruption took place, and the ~raveller
had to fly for his life. On the cessation of the
irruption, he returned; doubtless, with the ex-
pectation of merely collectiJlgthe fragments of
his valuable instrument; when, to his great
aat.onishment and delight, he discovered not
onlythat his camera was absolutely uninjured,
but that it contained an admirable represent&•
tion of the crater and the irruption.
A brief account of the process of the Dague~-
reotypemay now be given. A plate of silvered
copper, about as thick as a ahilling, is well
cleaned and polished by rubbing it with cotton,
fine pumice powder, and dilute nitric acid, and
·afterwards.exposed to the heat of a spirit-lamp,
placed below it, till a strong white coating is
(ormed on the polis_hedsurface. On the plate
being cooled suddenly by means of a cold slab
of atone or of metal, the white coating is re-
moved by repeatedly polishing it with dry
pumice and cotton, and tµen three times more
·withthe dilute nitric acid and pumice powder.
A careful cle$ning bWlg thus given to the
plate, it is placed in a box containing i~ tµl
Di itiz by
g
• North Britiab Baview.
D 2
Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
J.VV rll~NOll.t:NA OJ-4'
LIGt,T •
it becon1esvisibly covered· ,vith a golden fihn
of that substance, which must neither be pale
nor purple. It is then placed in the camera
till a distinct picture of whatever appears
before it is forn1ed upon the surface; it remains
there for a period depending on the intensity of
the light, and is then removed to a metallic box,
having in it a cup containing at least three
ounces of mercury. Placed below the cup is a
spirit-lamp, which throws off the mercurial
vapour; and, in exact proportion as this vapour
deposits itself on the parts of the plate ,vhich
have been acted upon by the light, is the
picture developed on the surfacE-'
of the plate,
by the adhesion of the white mercurial vapour
to the different parts which had been impressed
by the light. As soon as the picture appears
c01nplete, the plate is placed in a trough of
sheet-copper, containing either a saturate,~
solution of common salt, or a weak solution of
hyposulphite of soda. Thus, the coating of
iodine will be dissolved, the yellow colour quite
disappearing; hot, but not boiling, distilled
,vater is then poured over the plate, and any
drops ,vhich re1nain are removed by blowing
upon them.
. The picture being now finished, is preserved
from dust by placing it in a frame, and covering
it ,vfth glass. In every successful operation,
the picture is almost as perfect in its details as
that of the camera obscura itself; but, as the
light of t.he sun is only white, there can be, of
pourse, none of the varied tints of natw·e. The
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
shades are supplied by- the black polish of the
metallic surface which, when it reflects a lumin-
ous object, the white vapour of the mercury
appears in shade, and thus gives us either a
positive or a negative picture, according to the
light in which it is viewed.
Various improvements have gradually been
made in the proceJJSeS
of the Daguerreotype and
the Talbotype, which our limited space forbids us
to describe. Mr. Beard has added colour to his
Daguerreotype portraits, whieh is uniform and
eo transparent as not to affect the likeness in
any degree, while the life-like effect is greatly
heightened. M. Claudet has found that, when
the sun is rendered red by the vapours of the
atmosphere, it not only produces no effect upon
tl1eDaguerreotype plate, but that it destroys the
eiFect previously produced by the white light.
If the image of the red sun be taken in the
camera obscura, it produces apon the Daguer-
reotype plate a black image. By covering· a
])aguerreotype plate previously affected by light
with a red, orange, or yellow glass, the radiation
through these coloured media has also the pro-
perty of destroying the action produced by
,,·hite light. The most interesting part of M
Clnudet's statement refers to the fact that, afte1
the destroying action of the red, orange, and
yellow radiations, the plate is restored to itc
former sensitiveness; so that, after having been
aff'ect,edby wbite light, and restored by tl1c
destructive action of the red, orange, and yellow
i-ndiations, it is possible to produce a 1)hotogrn-
Di itiz y g a.1 glrial 'rom
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
102 I'BENOMENA
OFLIGilT.
phic effect, as upon a plate just prepared with
iodine and bromine. This alternate ncting and
destroying action n1ay be repeated ad infinitum,
without altering the final state of the plate.
This curious fact proves, evidently, that, in the
Daguerreotype process, light does not alter the
chemical compound on the plate, and that the
affinity for mercury is the result of some new
property imparted by the action of the rays of
light. M. Claudet's experimenta prove, also.
that the red and yellow raya are endowed with
a photographic action of their own,which, aa
well as that of the blue and violet ray,, gives
an affinity for mercurial vapour. The photo-
graphic action of the red ray is destroyed by
the yellow, that of the~yellow by the red; the
red and yellow destroy the photographic action
of the blue, and the blue destroys the action of
the others. 'fhe photographic, or the destroying
action of any pa.rticular ray cannot be continued
by any other. It appears, therefore, that each
radiation changes the state of the plate, and
each change produces the sensitiveness to
mercurial vapour when it does not exist, and
destroys this sensitiveness ,,,hen it does exist.•
M:.Regnault has laid ·before the Academy of
Sciences, at Paris, some photographic speoimens
on paper, obtained by M. Blanquart-Evrard, by
a modification of the usual process. In the
preparations hitherto described, one part of the
.process presented serious difficulties, namely,
that of the use of gallic acid in order to produce
• LiteraryGazette.
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
the impression. It happened frequently, that a
proof taken in too mild a light, or of too large
dimensions, could not receive the necessary
force before disappearing, aa it may be said,
under the uniform colour prcduccd by tho
minore of the gallic acid with the nceto-azotate
of silver, with which the paper is imbued.
After having ascertained that the gallio acid
produces this uniform colour on the impression,
only because it is combined in sn1all quantity
with the aceto-azotate of sih1er, M. Blanq:uart-
Evrard removes all the difficulty. After taking
the proof from the camera obscura, he plunge,
it int.o a vessel of large dimensions, covered
with a layer of one centim~tre of gallic acid of
cold saturation. The bath is agitated during
the immersion; and the action may be thU8
prolonged until the impression has obtained
the necessary force to secure a good result.
The proof is then washed, and the gallic acid
is replaced by a solution of bromure of potas-
sium, or chloruret of sodium, in which it is left
for about a quarter-of-an-hour.•
The chromatype, discovered by Mr. Hwit,
consistsin washing good letter-paper with t.he
fo1lowingsolution:-
Bi-chromate of potash ..• 10 grains
Sulphate of copper . • • • 20 graina
Distilled water . • . . • • . 1 ounce
Papers prepared with this are of a pale yel-
lowcolour; they may be kept for any length of
time without injury, and are always ready for
• Athemeum.
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
104 f·Jl!NOlJENA OF LIGHT.
nse. For copying botanical specin1ens or en-
gravings, nothing can be more beautiful. After
the paper has been exposed to the influence of
sunshine, with the objects to be copied super-
posed, it is washed over in the- dark with a
solution of nitrate of silver of moderate strength.
As soon as this is done, a very vivid po:>itive
picture n1akes its appearance ; and all the
fixing these pl1otographic pictures require is,
well washing in pure water.
M. Niepce de St. Victor finds that, if a sheet
of paper on which there is writing, print.ed
characters, or a drawing, be exposed for a few
n1inutes to the vapour of iodine, and there be
applied immediately afterwards a coating of
starch, moistened by slightly acidulatcd water,
a faithful tracing of the writing, printing, or
drawing, will be obtained. M. Niepce has also
discovered that a great number of substances,
such as nitric acid, cl1lorurets of lime and
mercury, act in a similar manner; and that
various vapours, particularly those of ammonia,
have the effect of vivifying the images which
are obtained by photography.
In the words of a writer in the North British
Revieto:-" While the nrtist is thus supplied_
with every materiar for his creative genius,
tl1e public ,vill derive a new and immediate
advantage from the productioll.i of the solar
·pencil. The home-faring man-whom fate or
duty chains to hi~ birth-place, or imprisons in
·his fatherland-will, without the fatigues and
dangers of trnvC'l,scan the beauties and ,vondcrs
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
.I.UiJ
orthe globe; not in the fantastic or deceitful
images of a hurried pencil, but, in the very
picture which would have been painted on his
own retina, were he magically transported to
the scene. '!"hegigantic outline of the Himalaya
and the Andes ,vill stand self-depicted upon
his borro,ved retina-the Niagara will pour
out before him, in panoramic grandeur, her
mighty cataract of waters, wbile the flaming
volcano will toss into the air her clouds of dust
and her blazing fragments. The scene will
change, and there will rise before him Egypt'8
colossal pyramids, the temples of Greece and
Rome, and the gilded mosques and towering
minarets of eastern magnificence. But with
not less wonder, and with a more eager and.
affectionate gaze, will he survey those hallowed
scenes which faith has consecrat;ed and love
endeared. Painted in its cheerless tints, Mount
Zion will stand before him, ' as a field that is
ploughed;' Tyre, as a rock on which the fisher-
men dry their nets ; Gaza, in her prophetic
'baldness ;' Lebanon, with her cedars prostrate
among 'the howling firs;' Nineveh made as a
grave, 'and seen only in the turf that covers it;'
and Babylon the great, the golden city, with its
impregnable walls, its hundred gates of brass,
now ' sitting in the dust, cast up as an heap,'
covered with 'pools of water,' and without
even the 'Arab's tent,' or the 'shepherd's fold.'
But though it is only Palestine in desolation
that a modern sun can delineate, yet the seas
,vhich bore on their brea2t the Divine Re-
D 3
Di itiz y g a.1 glrial 'rom
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
106 PHENOlttNA OJ LidllT.
deemer, and the everlasting hills which bounded
his vie,v, stand unchanged by time and the
elements, and, delineated on the faithful tablet,
still appeal to us with an immortal interest.
But the scenes which arethus presented to
us by the photographer have not merely the.
interest of being truthful representations: they
form, as it were, a record of every visible event
that takes place while the picture is delineating.
The dial-plate of the clock tells the hour and
minute when it was drawn, and with the day
of the month, which we know, and the sun's
altitude, which the shadows on the picture often
supply, we may find the very latitude of the
place which ia represented. All stationary life
stands self-delineated on the photograph :-the
wind, if it blows, will exhibit its disturbing in-
fluence; the rain, if it falls, will glisten on the
house-top; the still clouds will exhibit their
ever-changing forms; and even the lightning'•
flash will imprint it.afire-streak on the sensitive
tab~.''
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
CIIAPTER VII.
Heat,the cause of many wonders-Its unh·eraal diff'uaion and
appUcation-8tory of a burning-glaN-The Angostine friars
and the Jesuit11-lm_posturea aa to t11eendurance of beat-
Bnrning mirrors-The blow-pipe_-The Giants' Causeway-
Application of cun-enta of heated air-Tr&\·elling by 1team.
HEAT is everywhere present: every body that
exists contains it in quantity to which we can
assign no limits. The endless variety of forn1s
which are spread over and beautify the sur£'lce
of the globe, are· to be traced to its influence.
Wi\bout it, the land and the water would fall
into one formless and impenetrable n1ass, and
the air now essential to life, prove absolutely
poisonous. We shall find in connexion with it,
therefore• many extraordinary phenomena.
. When Labat the Jesuit visited the Peruvians,
be took the naked arm of one of them, and,
concentrating on it the rays of the sun by
means of a powexful lens, soon made him
cry out with pain, while the others looked on
with wonder, not unmixed with indignation.
How could this effect be produced ? was instantly
the question ; and, as prornptly, the cause was
declared to be infernal. In vain did Labat
assert that it was merely natural, The Peru-
Di itiz y g a.1 glrial 'rom
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
AC no:N OF HEAT. •
vians made many aUempts to obtain possession
of the lens in order to destroy it, and deliver
themselves fron1the power of that which-they
regarded as able to bring upon them the ven-
geance of the gods.
Much surprise has sometimes been awakened
by an apparent insensibility to intense heat.
An instance of this occurred when-a rivalry
existed between the Augustine friars and the
Jesuits. The father-general of the Augustine
friars was dining with the Jesuits; and, ,vhen
the table was removed, he entered into a forn1al
discourse of the superiority of the monastic
order, and charged the Jesuits with assuming
the title of "f1·atres,"while they held not the
three vows ,vhich other monks were obliged to
consider sacred and binding. The general or
the Augustine friars ,vas very eloquent and
very authoritative-and the superior of the .
Jesuits was very unlearned. ·
'fhe Jesuit avoided entering the lists of con-
troversy with the Augustine friar, but arrested
his triumph by asking him if he would see one
of his friars, who pretended to be nothing more
than a Jesuit, and one of the Augustine friars
who religiously performed the three vows; show
instantly ,vhich of them would be readier to
obey his superior ?
The gustine friar consented. The Jesuit
.,hen turning to one of his brothers, the friar
Mark, who was waiting upon them, said,
" Brother Mark, our companions are cold ; I
command you, in virtue of the holy obedience
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
you have sworn to me, to bring here, inr,antly,
out of the kitchen-fire, and in your hands, some
burning coals, that they may warm themselves
over your hands." Father Mark mstantly
obeyed; and, to the astonishment ofthe Augustine
friar, brought in his hands a supply of red
burning coals, and held them to whoever chose
to warm himself; and, at the command of his
superior, returned them to the kitchen hearth.
The general of the Augustine friars, with the
rest of his brotherhood, stood amazed; he looked
wistfully on one of his monks, as if he wished
to command him to do the like. But the
Augustine monk, who perfectly understood him,
and saw this was not a time to hesitate, ob-
served, "Reverend father, forbear, and do not
comn1and me to tempt God : I am ready to
fetch you fire in a chaffing-dish, but not in my
bare hands." The triumph of the Jesuits was
complete, and it is not necessary to add, that
"the miracle"was noised about 1 and that the
Augustine friars could never account for it,
notwithstanding their strict performance of the
three· vows ! And yet here was no mystery.
According to sir James Mackintosh, " In the
Mercure de France, there is a very curious
account of experiments made at Naples to
discover the means by which jugglers have
appearedto be incombustible. They seem to
be completely discovered, and chiefly to consist
in, first, gradually ·habituating the skin, the
mouth throat, and stomach, to great degrees or
heat; ;econd, in rubbing the skin ,vith hard
Di itiz y g a.1 glrial 'rom
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
110 ACTIONOJ'HEAT.
soap, and in covering the tongue with· hard
soap, and over that with a layer of powdered
sugar. By these means, tlie professor at Naples
is enabled to walk over burning coals, to take
into .his mouth boiling oil, and to wash his
hands in melted lead. The miracles or several
saints, the numerous escapes from the fiery
ordeal-, and tricks now played by the Hindoo
jugglers, are thus perfectly explained; and all
these prodigies may be performed in a fortnight
by any apothecary's apprentice."
Other instances of endurance are inerely
pretended. In country places, a con)urer some-
times appears in the streets, professing that he
Is able to eat fire ; and yet he only rolls
together a ball or flax or hemp, lights it, roll■
round it some more of the same material, slips
it cunningly into. his mouth, and breathes
through it to revive the flame; and so long
us he inspires the air through the nostrils, and
not through the mouth, he suffers no injury.
A performer, named Richardson, in the seven-
teenth century, pretended to pour melted lead
~pon his tongue ; but it is probable that he
used the fusible metal formed of bismuth, tin,
and lead, which melts at a low temperature,
and which the writer has seeri fused on a card,
and poured into the hand with impunity by a
person accustomed to handle hot substances.
Not many years ago, a man named Chaubert
professed to be incombustible; but it has been
proved that the human body is capable of
bearing a very high degree of heat. Men of
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
unquestionable integrity have surpassedall his
wonders. Sir Charles Blagden exposed him .
self in a heated room where the heat was one
or two degrees above 260°, and remained eight
minut,es in this situation. Eggs and a beef-
steak were placed on a tin framet near the
thermometer, and in the space of twenty mi-
nutes the eggs were roasbld quite hard, and in
forty-seven minutes the steak was not only
dressed, but almost .dry. Another beef-steak
siinilarly placed, was rather over-done in
thirty-three minutes. Chantrey, the .celebrated
sculptor, accompanied by five or·six friends,
also entered a furnace, and, after remaining
two minutes, brought out a thermometer which
stood at 320°. Some pain was experienced in
this experiment, but it placed beyond all
doubt that the human body has a remarkable
power of enduring heat. Chaubert excited
much wonder by taking phosphorus into his •
m~uth; but, as that substance, when deprived
of air, will ·not burn, he always closed his lips,
and retired to eject the phosphonu immediately
afterwards.
- We tui-nnow from the resistance of heat by
chemical means, to some striking examples ot
its power. ·
The name of the Giants' Causeway arose, pro-
bably, from an idea of the supernatural power,
entertained in times of ignorance and super-
stition. And yet it is demonstrated that vast
masses of rock are to be traced to causes
1trictly natural. Basalt is of very frequent
Di itiz by
8
Or1<;JI
r~ 'rom
INDIANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
112 ACTION
OFBEAT.
occurrence on the surface of the globe, and is
frequently detected in a variety of volcanoes,
both extinct and active. The greatest mass of
basalt hitherto observed is that in the Deccan,
which constitutes the surface of many thousand
square miles of that part of India. In other
instances, it occurs in horizontal tabular masses,
and is columnar. Sometimes, the basaltic
columns are curved, and of this there is a
beautiful example in the island of Staffa.
Now basalt is not a crystalline substance, for as
it is not capable, as all crystals are, of cleavage
in the line of its planes, or at some angle with
them, it is concretional. Its structure resem-
bles an onion, or any bulbous root, for, in the
centre, is a solid mass, about which are others
just like the parts of the vegetable }lroducts
already mentioned. These portions of basalt
are at first of an oval form, and then they
gradually become rudely hexagonal. ·Some
non-columnar basalts show no trace of any
particular arrangement of parts, while others
have a globular structure, so that when the
rock becomes much decomposed, it has the
appearance of numerous ·bomb-shells and can-
non-balls cemented together.
Here, then, we have an extraordinary effect
of heat. Mr. Gregory Watt took seven hundred
,veight of the substance named ro·wley 1'ag,
kept it in fusion more than six hours, and
cooled it so gradually, that eight days elapsed
before it was taken from the furnace. The
shape of the mass ,vasuneven, and while the
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
TllE GIANTS'CAUSEWAY. ..UlJ
·thinner portion was, in consequence of more
rapid cooling, .vitreous, the thicker was stony ;
the one state passing into the other. Numerous
spheroids were also formed, some being two
inches in diameter. They were radiated with
distinct :fibres, the latter also forming concentric
coats, when circumstances were favourable to
such an arrangement. When the temperature
had. been surliciently continuro, the centres of
the spheroids became compact;ed before they
had attained the diameter of half-an-inch.
When two spheroids came ·into contact, no
penetration ensued ; but the two bodies became
mutually compressed and separated by a plane,
well defined, and invested with a rusty colour.
When several met, they formed prisms. In
reasoning on th~e facts, Mr. G. Watt observes:
"In a stratum composed of an indefinitienumber
in superficial extent, but only one in height,
of impenetrable spheroids, if their peripheries
should come in contact in the same plane, it
seems obvious that their mutual action _
would
form thc,.m into hexagons ; and if these _were
resisted below, and there was no opposing cause
above them, it seems equally clear that they
would extend their dimensions up,vards, and
thus form hexagonal prisms, whose length
might be indefinitely greater than their dia-
meters.".
Di itiz y
That the great power in operation in the
formation of basaltic columns is heat, appears
to be indisputable. There •, for example, a
bed of sandstone in furnaces for smelting
g a.1 glrial 'rom
INDIANA UNIVERSrTY
114: ACTIONOF BEI.T.
metals, and, in tho course of time, it requires
to be repaired. Portions, taken out, on such
occasions, have been found to have a columnar
appearance : the heat of the furnace having
changed the form of the substance, not by any
fusion of its partB, but by a peculiar arrange-
ment of them, thus giving them the specified
figure.
Another astonishing result of this natural
power is seen in the eruption of a volcano.
'fhe eye of a traveller, perhaps, as it is turned
towards Vesuvius, discerns a dark red spot on
the mountain's side, issuing from an orifice near
to the crater. But soon, that deep burning
light apparently spreads out, or flows on into a
long wide stream, descends the entire length of
the great cone, and reaches to the plain below.
But, as the :first light was seen through and
behind the mists which follow the departure of
the sun, so now its extended influence is only
rendered visible by the increasing gloom. But,
as the eye is still attracted to,vards this re-
markable eminence, a pillar of fire is seen
rising up from the crater high into the air;
while innumerable lights appear, like so many
natural fire-works rushing upwards, and falling
in a glowing .shower, o~ the outer sides of the
- crater, which soon present the aspect of a heap
of fire. Large and red-hot stones are flung
forth from time to time, from the same troubled
source, to fall, roll down the sides of the crater,
and lose their brightness.
Di itiz by
Mountains that are liable to volcanic action,
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
VOLCANOES
OW
TBIIIIOLUCOAS. 115
before an eruption takes place, are generally
the moat fertile, and the most attractive of all
eminences. IllUBtrationa of this remark are
found upon a magnificent scale in Mexico; and,
among the reat,that of Jorullo, in the extensive
int-endency of Valladolid, Iying on the west
coan of America, between the intendencies ot
Mexico and Guadalaxara, (pronounced Quada-
lahara.) Mechoacan, a part of it, is an expanse
of table-land which enjoys a fine and temperate
climate, and is intersected with hills and charm-
ing valleys, presenting an appearance unusual
in the torrid zone, of extensive and well-watered
meadows. On the twenty-ninth of September,
1769, from the centre of a thousand burning
conea W'8 thrown up the volcano of Jorullo; a
mountain of !COrim
and ashes, 1tventeen hun-
dred fet!thigh, in-an extensive plain, and covered
with most luxuriant vegetation. When plains,
hills, and valleys, are thus spoken of, the reader
should remember, that all of them are reared
upon the lofty cha1:nof the Andes, for volcanio
eruptions only, 10 far as we know, take place
in mountainous regions.
But some of the most remarkable examples
are to be met with in the Spice Islands, or
Moluceas. The pointed and conical mountains,
which characterize this group of islands, exhibit
great fertility. Nothing -can surpass the rich•
nesa of vegetation with which their sides are
covered, nor the balmy healthfulness of the
breezes that encircle round them, to temper the
h~ts of the sultry zone But the nature of
Di itiz y g a.1 glrial 'rom
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz y
116 ACTION
OF HEAT.
these mountains is closely connected with vol-
canic action ; so that, in fearful apprehension,
we might look at each one of these beautiful
peaks, as if it were destined one day to be torn
from its station and thrown into the sea.
" I will stretch out mine hand upon thee,
and roll thee down from the rocks, and will
make thee a burnt mountain," was one of the
Divine denunciations against Babylon, Jer. Ii.
25. Judgment has not thus fallen on Ternate,
one of the most lovely of the cluster just ad-
verted to; but the top of the highest rock has
been torn off, and hurled from a height of five
or six thousand feet, into the sea. A huge
gap was lei&behind, which seemed to a traveller
when standing on the edge, like a deep valley,
or ravine, betwixt two mountains. As the
portion rent away in this tremendous struggle
,vas split into fragments of various sizes, there
is, besides, a vast pile at the water's edge, a
road, or causeway, strewed with half-vitrified
pieces of rock and cinders, from the margin of
the rifi to the declivity of the mountain; so
that the island, so lovely under other aspects,
presents on this side a fearful scene of desola-
tion. What a striking comment on the words,
" I will make thee a burnt mountain ;"-I will
tear off thy summit, shiver it into ten thousand
pieces, and therewith overwhelm and destroy
the natural verdure of thy sides, ,vhich once
looked so goodly and so fair l Some time in
l\Iarch, 1839, another eruption took place at
'l'ernate; so that, long before these ejected
g a.1 glrial 'rom
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
BURNINGIIIBRORS. 117
matters could yield to the decomposi~g ac~ion
of the atmosphere, and afford a soil for vege--
table growth, another layer, of equally forlorn
and broken kind, was scattered over them.
In connexion with these astounding pheno-
mena, it may be remarked that an apparatus has
recently been contrived called the fire-annihilator,
the origin of which is not a little curious. It
is said that the inventor observed that the smoke
hovering over a burning mountain diminished
its fury, and that, on analysing it and combining
similar elements, he discovered the means of
extinguishing fires, and thus of arresting at the
outset what might otherwise prove a tremendous
calamity. ·
Many processesof art, like the operations of
nature, are dependent on heat. By this agent,
the most obdurate masses soften like wax,
and yield to the forms which are demanded by
our wants and our tastes; and compounds, knit
t,ogether by stubborn affinities, are resolved by
it into their original elements. The baron Von
Tchivanhausen constructed a burning mirror
in 1687, :fivefeet three inches in breadth, and
reflecting the solar rays with extrao:rdinary
power. When exposed to its force, wood took
fire, and continued to burn, notwithstanding a
most violent wind ; and water, contained in an
earthen vessel, quickly boiled, so that. eggs
were cooked, and the liquid soon after evapo-
rated. Copper and silver were fused in a few
minutes, and slate was transformed into a kind
of black glass, which, when held by a pair of
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
AVHU.l'III UE ~4·1·
pincers, could be drawn out into filament,,.
This mirror afterwards came into the pos-
aessi<,nof the king of France, and waa kept in
the Jardins du Roi. Other mirrors have been
formed of different aubstanoea. At the Poly-
technic Institution, some years ago, there were
two metallic discs placed at the extreme ends
of the great hall, and when a '\Teasel
of burning
coals was held in the fooua of one, and a pie<Mt
of meat in the focua of the other, the latter wu
cooked with marvellous rapidity by a simple
and apparently an unimportant instruµient.
'fhe blow-pipe bas immense power. Two
volumea of hydrogen, and one of oxygen gas,
when pure, form a mixture .which producea in
this instrument intense heat,and mostaubstances
may be fusedby the flame. In the experimenta
of Dr ..E. Clarke, lime, strontion, and alun1ine,
yielded to its powers. The alkalis were fused
and volatilized almost the instant they came
into contact with the :flame: and rock cryatal
became a transparent glass full of bubble&,
Opal changed into a pearly white enamel, and
flint into one that was frothy. Blue sapphire
waa melted; and Peruvian enamel changed
into a transpare?t and colourless glus. Lapis
lazuli fused into transparent glass, with a slight
tinge of green. Iceland spar, next in difficulty,
as to fusion, to its native magnesia, melted at
last into a limpid glass, giving out an amethyst-
coloured flame. Diamond first became opaque,
nncl was then gradually volatilized. Gold,
ruixed with borax as a flux, waa fuaed; pla-
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
SMELTINGORES. 119
tina wire melted the instant it was brought
into contact with the :flame,and ran down in
drop~; brass ~re burned with a green flame;
and iron wire with brilliant sparks .
.A.t a recent meeting of the British Associa-
tion, Dr. Faraday exhibited some diamonds,
which he had received from M. Dumas, which
had, by the action of intense beat, been con-
verted into coke. In one case, the heat of the
flame of oxide of carbon and oxygen had been
used; in another, the oxyhydrogen flame; and,
in the third, the galvanic arc of :flamefrom a
Bunsen battery of one hundred pairs. In the
last case, the diamond was perfectly converted
into a piece of coke; and, in the others, the
fusion and carbonaceous formation were evident.
Speeimen1 in whioh the character of graphite
was t.aken by tbe di~mond were also shown.
The electrical characters of these diamonds
were stated also 1;o have been changed, the
diamond being an insulator, while coke is a
conductor.
A rope, nearly three miles long, was recently
lying on the verge of the borough of Gateshead,
which was shortly before a stone in the bowels
of the earth. Smelted, the stone yielded iron.
The iron was converted into wire. The wire
was brought to the wire-rope manufactory of
Messrs. R. S. Newall and Co., atthe Teama, near
Gateshead, and there twisted into a line 4,660
yard• long. It was _supposed to be the stout-
est rope of the kind that was ever made. It
weigh, twenty tons, five hundredweights, and
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
-..._
Di itiz by
cost the purchasers upwards of £1,184. It was
intended for the incline on the Edinburgh and
Glasgow R.ailway, near the latter city. A
rope of hemp of equal strength would weigh
thirty-three tons and-a-half, and cost about
three hundred pounds more. It would also
entail greater expense while in operation,
(owing to its greater weight,) and would sooner
wear out.
"The process," says the Pha~utical
Joumal, "for purifying and agglomerating
caoutchouc, preparatory to its being cut into
sheets, and also for effecting the latter opera-
tion, are due to the ingenuity of M. Sievier.
The general principle is this :-Pieces of caout-
chouc, mixed, as they are in their native state,
with various impurities, are put into a strong
metallic drum, through which passes an axle,
studded with chisel-shaped teeth. The interior
of the drum is supplied with similar ones, but
stationary. Therefore, when the axle is made
to revolve, the caoutchouc becomes subjected
to a most powerful rending and kneading mo-
tion, in the course of which sufficient heat is
evolved, notwithstanding a current of cold
water continually passes through the drum,
to agglutinate the material into a compact
mass. This mass is now subjected to the
pressure of a powerful screw apparatus, and
made to assun1e the form of a cuboid, from
which sheets of caoutcl1ouc may be eventually
cut by the rapid vibratory action of a knife,
kept moistened with water. As solvents for
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
. CUHnENTS OF REATED AIR. l 21
ci.outchouc, equal parts. of coal naptha and
turpentine are commonly used; and, of late,
the bisulphuret of carbon hM been much
employed."
Mr. J. Wishaw has lately shown the ad-
vantages arising from the application of cur-
rents of heated air to the following pur-
poses: seasoning timber, generally; preserving
timber, purifying feathers, blankets, clothing,
etc.; drying coffee, roasting coiFee, japanning
leather for table-covers, and other purposes;
·drying silks, drying yam, drying distillers'
tuns, drying papier-mAche, and drying vul-
canized india-rubber. The process has also
been successfully tested for drying loaf-sugar,
drying printing-paper, or setting the ink, to
enable books to be bound more quickly than
usual; drying starch, and converting it into
dextine, or British gum; and preserving meat.
It has been also stated, that sixty suits of
clothes, which had belonged to persons who
had died of the plague in Syria, had been sub-
ject to the process of purification, at a tem-
perature of about 240°, and afterwards worn
by sixty persons ; not one of whom ever gave
the slightest sympton1 of being affected by the
malady. In describing these processes, the
writer referred to the mode adopted by the
North American Indians for preserving the meat
of the buffalo-that of drying it in the sun ;
and sta,ted (hat heated currents had been ap-
plied successfully. The discovery seems highly
important for shipping; ns, instead of sailors
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
122 ACTION OF J.lEAT.
consuming salted provisions from one month's
end to another, they might thus have an occa-
sional supply of fresh meat. Meat treated in
this way occupies much less space, too, and is
much lighter in weight. It is believed that the
juices of the meat contain about seven-eighths
of watery moisture : this, the current of heated
air removes, leaving the albumen and all the
flavour and n~trition behind. ·
That in the production of steam heat is of
incalculable value, there needs no proof. We
derive special advantage from it, in the results
of that machinery which astonish us by .their
magnitude, as well as by their elegance. Stean1
wafts us, in a few hours, from one extremity
of the land to the other, and renders America,
once called the New World, accessible in a
few days.
Another instance of its application, often
overlooked, is thus stated in the Quarterly
Review:-" That extraordinary line of steam
communication between England and her east-
ern possessions, (somewhat oddly called the
overlandjourney,) of which Australia and New
Zealand ,vill hereafter form the extreme
branches. The creation of the last twelve
years, this communication has already acquired
a sort of maturity of speed and ·exactness, not-
withstanding the enormous distances traversed,
and the changes necessary in transit from sea to
sea. The Anglo-Indian mail in its two sec-
tions, and including passengers and· corre-
spondence, possesses a sort of individuality as
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
TUE OVERLAND JOURNEr. 123
t11e greatest and mest singular line of inter-
course on the globe. Two of the first nations
of Europe, France and Austria, struggle for
the privilege of carrying this mail across their
territories. Traversing the length of the Medi-
terranean, it is received on the waters of the
ancient Nile-Cairo and the Pyramids are
passed in its onward course-the dP..sert is
traversed with a speed which mocks the old
cavalcades of camels and- loitering Arabs-it is
re-embarked on the Red Sea, near a spot
sacred in scriptural history-the promontory
projecting from the heights of Mount Sinai, the
shores of Mecca and Medina are passed in its
rapid course down this great gulf.-it emerges
through the straits of Babelmandel into the
. Indian seas-to pe distributed thence by dif-
ferent lines to all the great centres of Indian
government and commerce, as well as to our
more remote dependencies in the straits of
Malacca and the Chinese seas. There is a
certain majesty in the simple outline of a route
like this, traversing the most ancient seats of
empire, arid what ,ve are taught to regard as
among the earliest abodes of man-and now
ministering to the connexion of England with
that great sovereignty she has conquered, or
created, in the east ; more wonderful, with one
exception, than any of the empires of anti-
quity ; and, perchance, also, more important to
the general destinies of mank~d. ''
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
CIIAPTER VIII.
The magic swan--Properties of the magnet-The mariners'
compass-The process of magnetizing-The dip of the
needle-llagnet1c propertiesin various substances.
A MAGICIAN of former days had a figure of n
swan, ,vhich floated on a Yessel of water, round
the rim of which were placed the t,venty-four
letters of the alphabet. Addressing the specta-
tors, he was accustomed to ask for a nmne to be
given him, and it ,vas correctly spelt by the
swan, as it moved fron1 one letter to another
till it had indicated the whole. A little philo-
sophy, in this instance, produced repeatedly
great astonishment. A magnetic bar ,vas placed
in the s,van, and the performer had a powerful
n1agnet concealed in his own dress, and the
swan, of course, follo,ved his motions. Thus,
if he wanted the swan to spell " Selina," lie
moved first to S, then to E, and so on, through
the successive letters of that name, till the ·word
,vas spelt. On one occasion, ho,vever, the per-
former was not a little disconcerted-the swan
stopped in its course and refused to move.
Again and again the effort was n1ade, but it
was utterly in vain; the n1,
ngician could only
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
OXlDE or IUON. 125
acknowledge that some person was in the room
aware of his secret, and count.erncting his
movements. Sir Francis Blake Delaval avowed
himself to be the person: he produced a magnet
which he had used on facing the performer as
he stood at the table; the swan was, therefore,
placed between two attractive instruments, and,
of course, remained immovable. .
A magnet may be described as a piece of
iron, which possesses the property of turning
towards the poles of the earth. This extra-
ordinary quality does not necessarily belong to
all specitnens of iron in its native state, but
only to one kind or variety called the oxide, on
account of its union with oxygen in a particular
condition. The possession of n special quality
in this ore of iron was not discovered from its
polarity, or power of turning to_
the poles of the
earth, but fron1 its property of attracting small
pieces. of iron, ,vhich are not magnetic; and
hence it was called the loadstone.
'!'here are many uses to ,vhich the magnet
.has been applied, and there is a probability of
its being much more extcnsi vely employed; but
its most important application is in the con-
9truction of the mariners' co1npass, which ren-
ders it possible freely tQ traverse the ocean.
There has been some controversy as to the
discovery of the directive power of the magnet,
and the invention of the compass. It was once
supposed to have been unknown until about the
thirteenth century, but it is now generally
acknowledged tliat the Chinese were acquainted
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
126 MAGNETISM.
with the compass at least eleven hundred and
fourteen years before the birth of Christ. At
the commencement of the thirteenth century, it
was certainly in use in Europe; for cardinal de
Vitty mentions it with some particularity, in a
work entitled "The History of the East," where
he says, " The iron needle, after contact with
the loadstone, constantly turns t.o the north
star, which, as the •axis of the firmament,. re-
3lains immovable, while ·the others revolve;
and hence it is essentially nece,sary to those
navigating on the ocean." This shows that
the compass was not invented in Europe, as
commonly believed, by Gioia, a pilot, and a
native of Pasitano, a small village, situated near
Amalfi, who lived about the end of the thir-
teenth century, but, by him, it appears to have
been made fully available for the purposes of
navigation.
As used by sailors in the Mediterranean at
that period, it was a very uncertain guide; for
the compass then consisted of a magnetic needle
attached to two straws on a piece of cork,
floating onwater in a basin, or glass vase. Gioia,
therefore, placed the magnetic needle upon a
pivot, so that it was free to move in any dire<>-
tion, and thus prevented that inconvenience and
inaccuracy of observation which must have
resulted from the motion of the needle floating
on :water, agitated by the tossing of the vessel.
The magnetic needle was afterwards attached to
a card divided into thirty-two points, called the
rosedu t,ents, so that the dirootion in whicha
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
IRONMAGNETIZED. 127
vessel was sailing could be minutely determined,
and the means of ascertaining it was no longer
dependent on the accuracy of the eye in mea-
wring distances. The mariners' compass is
still constructed in the same manner, but is
inclosed in a box with a glass cover, and is
thus preserved from the influence of the wind.
Another improv.ement has been made in so
suspending the box that, however the vessel
may be pitched by the wavee, and rolled from
side to side, the needle remains in a horizontal
position, and gives accurate indications of the
direction in which the vessel is e~iling.
In addition to the properties already men-
tioned, the loadstone has the power of oommu..
nicatiug its virtues to any piece of hard iron or
steel, and that, without diminution of strength ;
so that, if but one piece had been discovered, it
would have been sufficient for the production
,of all the magnets that have ever been formed
by man. Other means may be adopted of
accomplishing this purpose. Take a bar of
iron, and, striking it several times with a
hammer, it will become n1agnetic. This ex-
periment may be performed with a common
pok·er. The magnetism thus communicated to a
steel bar will be much increased in power, if it
be supported on another bar during the process
•ofhammering. -
Gay Lussac, a French chemist of great
celebrity, discovered a method of making mag-
nets by a process so simple, that it may, in all
cases,be applied successfully. Take a piece of
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
thin iron wire and suspend it in a vertical
position. The earth itself being a magnet,
induces a magnetic power in the wire. To
render this permanent, twist the ,vire till it
breaks, and a n1agnet will be obtained.
Mrs. Somerville, well known for her e..~cellent
}lhilosophical works, made some experiments
on the effect of solar light in the production of
permanent magnetism. If half of a small
sewing needle le covered with paper, and the
exposed part be placed in the violet or indigo
ray, magnetis1n will be induced, and the same
effect will be producedin a smaller degree by
the blue and green. e -( /
. To describe but one more mode ; magnets
are readily made by what is called the single
touch, and this is perhaps the mo$t simple and
mvst effective way of proceeding. Place tht
steel bar to be n1agnct.izedoria table, or any other
convenient place, and, as nearly as possible,
north and south, which position is callei! by
philosophers, the magnetic meridian. This
being done, draw over it perpendicularly a
.strong magnet. In this operation, it is neces-
sary to begin at one end of the bar, and draw
the magnet over its entire length, and then
again in the same direction. It must not be
drawn backward and forward, for the power
communicated in one direction, ""ould be de-
stroyed by an opposite motion.
The following experin1ents are very instruct-
ive :-Suspend a magnetic needle bya silk cord,
so that it will hang in a horizontal position.
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
DIFroSION OT KAQNETISY. l !9
Then bring it over the centre of a large
n1agnet lying _upon a table, and it will still
retain its position ; but, as it is brought near
to eitlier end, it will be bent downwards, and,
at the extremities, will be vertical. This ex-
periment illustrates what is called the dip or
~he magnet .. On the equator of the earth, the
needle is horizo~tal, or nearly so, but as it is
brought near the poles it dips, and over either
magnetic pole would be vertical. The reason
of this is evident from the former experiment :
at the equator, each pole of the needle is
attracted in an equal degree by the north and
south poles of the· earth ; but, if we proceed
northward, the north pole·of the magnet will
be more attracted than the south, and point
towards it until at last it becomes verticaJ •
The poles of the earth's rotation, that is, tl-
..
e
points which would form the terminations of
its axis, did it revolve on one, are no_tthe
magnetic poles; nor is the equator of the earth
the magnetic equator. They do not, however,
greatly vary.
,Take, also, a bar magnet,and, placing it upon
a table, cover it with a sheet of writing-paper.
Then sprinkle upon it some fine iron filings,
~d they will arrange themselves in very
beautiful curves round the magnet, showing, as
, it is supposed, the circulation of the magnetic
fluid. :From this experiment, we learn that the
magnetic power is greatest at the poles; and
this .is true in reference to the magnetism of
the· earth, ,v
hich increases in power from the
Di itiz by
g
B
Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
130 MAGNETISM.
magnetic equator to the magnetic poles of the
earth, as determined by a great variety of inte-
resting and delicate experimentB. Sir Graves
C. Haughton has communicated a paper to the
June number of Brewster's Philosophical
Magazine, entitled "Experiments proving the
common nature of Magnetism, Cohesion, Ad-
hesion, and Viscosity."
This paper contains two separate sets of
experiments, the first of which relates to the
attraction the magnetic needle has for various
mineral, vegetable, and animal substances : and
it is not a little remarkable that antimony and
bismuth, as well as copper, tin, and cadmium,
are, in these experiments, shown to have attract-
ive powers for the magnetic needle; though,
in those made by Dr. Faraday, he has ranged
them amongst the class of dia-magnetics, that
is, of those that exhibited repulsion. Arsenic,
too, which he found so intractable, was made,
in the present experiments, to assume the real
magnetic character,, that is to say,the power of
attracting and repelling, by being kept for a
short time in contact with a bar magnet.
Iodine, likewise, ·wasfound, on bringing it near
tl1e needle, to be able to attract it.
In most of these experiments, the needle was
~~1ade
to attach itself to the substances by being
f:)rced towards them by a magnet., which was
gent1y withdrawn after contact was so effected.
1n this way, and by a reference to the degrees
r.;,f the compass traversed by the needle, a hair
;,f the head, or a sp~rk of diamond, can be
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
l>tFJUSlONo, lll<IMETISK. -18l
ICCUTatel:,meamred. The strength of the
needle in its movement on a pivot was ascer-
tained by azimuthtt, of which a detailed account
ia given.
The remainder of the memoir, which is con
taineclin a supplementary number of the Maga-
zine, ia devoted to a detail of about five hundred
experimente, in which non-ferruginous needles
were made, by a modification of the magnetic
needle, or which they formed a portion, to
attach themselves to the same substances as in
the preceding experiments. Th us, for instance,
needles of most of the ;remarkable metals, as
well as of glass, were found to have a strong
affinity for nearly every kind of substance,
whether mineral, vegetable, or animal, if its
density was greater than that of cork or char-
coal. Brass surpassed all the metals in its
power of attraction, an<f,what is most remark-
able, the magnetic needle was the lowest of all
~ the scale, showing not much more than one-
third of the attractive energy of so~ iron.
Every substance of a crystalline or vitreous
character exhibited remarkable magnetic pro-
perties, and this could not be mistaken, as it
might be heightened at pleasure by contact
with either pole of a powerful magnet. 'f owards
the close of the experiments, the curious dis-
covery was made, that needles of ivory, mother-
of-pearl, tortoise-shell, horn, etc., were singu-
larly magnetic, and this is traced to the albumen
and gelatine they contained; and the inference
is drawn, from this and other facts, that the
Di itiz by
g
E2
Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
MAGNETISM.
cohesive, adhesive, and viscous properties of
bodies are owing to real magnetic qualities,
and that, by drying, albuminous, gelatinous,
and glutinous fluids constitute various kinds of
glass, which vie,v is supported by what takes
place with the gelatinous hydrate of silicium.
"The p1·eceding experiments," says the wri-
ter, "include a vast variety of substances in
the mineral, vegetable, and animal kingdoms,
that exhibit such strong attractive affinities
for one another, that, however much they may
differ in their external appearances, and in
their very natures, they are bound together by
common bonds that connect them all into a
single family; for we find the metal ·attaching
itself to crystalline, animal, and vegetable
substances; and, again, the crystal, whether \\"e
call it by the name of diamond, salt, or sugar-
candy, cqnnecting itself readily to metallic,
animal, and vegetable bodies. In a similar
,vay, animal bodies attach themselves to those
that are mineral anJ vegetable; and, to com-
plete the circle, the vegetable kingdo1n, by its
woods, its gu1ns, its Inc, and its resins, is con-
nected with them all."
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
CHAPTER IX.
Theelectrical late-Candlea magically lighted-St. Elmo,1 fire
-'lbe chron:O~ 1be electric clock-The electric tele-
gr&l.)b~Sub- e telegraphs-The overruliUI providence
of God.
IN the auto-biographical memoirs of sir John
Barrow, lately published, he says, ,vhen de-
scribing some of the employments of his youth:
" I had fallen in with an account of Benjamin
Franklin's electrical kite, and a kite being a
very common object with school-boys, and a
string steeped in salt;..water wit.h a glass-
handle to it not difficult to be had, I speedily
flew my kite, and obtained abundance of
sparks (like those obtained from an electrical
machine.) An old woman, curious to see "hat
I was about, w~ too tempting an opportunity
not to give her a shock, which so frightened
her, that she spread abroad in the village that
I was no better than I should be, for that I was
drawing down fire from heaven. The alarm
ran through the village, and my poor mother
entreated me to lay aside my kite."
It was recently anno:nnced by a professor of .
magic, that several hundred candles would he
lighted by one pistol-shot, Accofdingly, the
Di itiz by
8
Or1<;JI
r~ 'rom
INDIANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
1.14 ELECTRICITY.
stage appeared in partial darkness, but, through
the gloom, ranges of candles might be indis-
tinctly perceived at different heights from the
floor ; and, in a minute or two, the performer
was seen to enter and discharge a pistol, when
all the candles were instantly ignited, and the
array of 1nagical instruments appeared strongly
illuminated, ready to be employed in the
subsequent exploits-an effect always followed
by enthusiastic acclamations. And yet there
is no difficulty in explaining this prodigy.
Candles_, carefully prepared to ignite readily,
might have above them an arrangement of
wires, with the point of a wire just over each
wick, and the whole being connected with an
electrical battery, they could be ignited in..
stantly, at a moment's notice. The instant
of the performer'• entering, might be the signal
for the discharge of the battery by others, ·and
the report of the pistol would prevent any
sound being heard on the removal of the wires,
which the previous darkness had effectually
concealed.
Lord Napier says, that when he was in the
Mediterranea~, some yeara ago, and during an
a,vful thunderstorm, he was retiring to reat,
when he heard suddenly a cry, from those aloft,
of "St. Elmo and St. Anne I" which induced
him again to go on deck. On observing the
appearance of the masts, the maint.op-gallant-
mast-head was completely enveloped in a blaze
of pale phosphoric light; the other mast-heads
presented a similarappearance; the flame pre•
8
Or1<;JI
r~ 'rom
INDIANA UNIVERSrTY
a.1. ~v a • .uw:.•
.serving its intensity for eight or ten minutes,
andth~ngradually becoming fainter. Yet this
appearance,which superstition declared to be
miraculous, was only electrical; for, while the
solar heat is converting into vapour the water
and moisture of the earth, electriQity is freely
disengaged. " rhe ck~uds which this power
forms are in ~ifFerent electrical conditions,
though the electricity of the atmosphere, when
serene, is invariably the same. Hence the
descent of clouds towards the earth, their mu-
tual approach, the force of atmospherical cur-
rents, and the ever-varying agencies of heat
and cold convert the aerial envelope of the
glo~ into a complete electrical apparatus ;
spontaneously exhibiting, in a variety of forn1s,
the play of the conflict of its antagonist
powers.. At the close of a sultry day, and
a~ve_ level plains, the opposite electricities of
the earth and the air effect their re-union in
noiseless :flashesof lightning, illuminating, as it
were, in far-spread sheets, the whole circuit o~·
t~e horizon, and the entire canopy of the
clouds. At other titnes, the same elements
light up the arctic constellations with their
restless ,vildfires-no~ diffusing their phos-
ph~ric flame, and flitting around in fitful
gleams, _and now shooting up their auroral
columns, advancing, retreating, and contending,
as i_fin mimicry of _mortalstrife."•
That electri_city and magnetism are identical,
iaevident from many experiments. If a ~ewlng--
• Edin"b~r•Jl
Review,
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
.&.UV
needle he placed in a wire, twisted in that form
called a helix, and a shock of electricity be
then passed through it, from a Leyden jar, the
needle will be magnetized. The form of the
wire, and the manner of placing the needle, are
shownin the fignrt.'.
Again, if ll be a piece of soft iron, of a horse-
shoe shape, and surrounded
with copper-wire covered
with a non-conducting sub-
stance, it will become power-
fully magnetic on connect-
ing the ends of the wire with
a galvanic battery. If this
be only of a moderate size,
and a keeper, 1, be attached
to x, it will suspend w,repre-
senting a very heavy weight.
Mr. Barlow has so ar-
ranged a globe, as to identify
the dip of the needle with electricity, a current
of which appears to be always passing round the
earth. At o, in the opposite diagram, is a globe
having a wire covered ,vith silk, coiled entirely
oyer it, from one pole, round and round to the
other. The ends of this wire dip into two cups,
1>and N, connected with the poles of a galvanic
battery. When the ourrent passes from this, the
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
ILEOTRIC CLOCK. 137
small and delicately balanced magnets, m, will
sl10\vpolarity, and dip, just the same as in the
earth itsel£
Mr. Bain's electric clock is a remarkable
contrivance. Nothing can be more satisfactory
or complete. Allowing for ,vear and tear of
materials from friction, and· the oxidating in-
fluence of the atmosphere, the perpetual motion
appears to he realized. As long as the elec-
tricity of the earth continues, or, in other
words, as long as the laws of nature last, so
long ,vill Mr. Bain's clock continue its oscilla-
tious, nnd register the transit of time. The
pendulum conducts, and isthe treasury of that
power, and two simple wheels and their attach-
ments, with the dead escapement, complete the
machine. By an ingenious provision, Mr.
Bain's electric clock at the manufactory extin-
gnisl1es the:,, gas-light ,vhich illuminates its
dial, at half-past twelve precisely.
Mr. Bain has invented and patented another
kind of electric clock, the clock being in Gla~-
i a
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
gow, and the pendulum in Edin1'urgh. By
means Clfthe electric telegraph along the rail-
way, constructed by Mr. Bain, he intimated hi.s
wish that the pendulum at the other end of the
line should be put in motion. The clock was
placed in the station-house "in Glasgow, the
pendulum belonging to it in the fitation-house
at Edinburgh, ·the two being forty- six miles
npart. They were joined by means of the wir~
of the telegraph, in such a manner as that, by a
current of electricity, the machinery of the
clock in Glasgo,v was made to move correctly,
according to the vibrations of the electrical
pendulum in Edinburgh. · Thus, in like man~
ner,w~reEngland and Scotland united in one
great chronometrical alliance, a single elec-
trical pendulum of this description, placed in
the Observatory at Greenwich, would give the
astronomical time correctly throughout the
country.
The electric telegraph may be said to havf
originated in a trivial incident. It occurred to
professpr Oersted, of Copenhagen, to try the
effect of a galvanic current on the needle of the
~omp8$s. He found it, on making the experi-
ment, deflected, that is, turned aside from its
usual bearing of due north and south. Pro-
fessor ,vheatstone applied this result very in--
geniously. He arrang~d a series of needleg,
mounted like that of the compass, and found
that he cou]d turn any of these aside by gal-
vanic currents, while the others remained at
rest. It was evident, therefore, that if e;'lch
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
ELECTRIC
TELEGRAPH. 189
needle were supposed to denote a letter, any
letters might thus be indicated; and, conse-
quently, if an arrnnge~ent . of needles standing
fo-rsomany letters, respectively, were placed ai
Digitizedb, Go gle 0!1c;tl
rldi 'rom
INDIA~ UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
.&."ZV
the distance of fifty or a hundred miles, and
any of them were acted on by means of wires
traversing the distance, a message could be
despatched at ona end of the line, and read oft'
at the other from the deflected needles, by any
person duly acquainted with the arrangement.
A similar set of needles at the opposite end,
would enable him, as certainly, to transmit a
reply.
The engraving represents the front of the
telegraph, exhibiting the index, as it is denomi-
nated. The wires, which are suspended through
the length of the line, are attached at either
end to the telegraphic instruments, a branch
,vire being fastened to a large metallic surface,
imbedded in the earth for completing the elec-
tric current. When at rest, the handles are
down, and the pointers remain in their vertical
position. The signals are given by two mag-
netic needles, or pointers, each suspended ver-
tically on an axis passing through the dial, and,
behind, another pointer is fixed on each cor-
responping axis. · A portion o( the conducting
,vire, many yards in length, is coiled round the
galvanometer frame, in w!iich the magnet
n1oves,so as to subject the magnet to the multi-
plied deflecting force of the electric current.
The battery is the motive power of the ma-
chine, occupying the same relative position to
it, as the boiler does to the locomotive; for,
though it does not produce any immediate
t'eSulton the works, yet the part it performs in
the undertaking is essential. While travelling,
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
ELECTRIC TELEGRAPH. 141
~Ir. Cooke found gr.eat inconvenience to result
from the spilling of the acid solution used in
Smee's batteries ; and, from this, he was led
to consider if the substitution of fine white
Shanklin sand, saturated with the diluted acid,
would not avoid this difficulty. Experiments
having confirmed the truth of his conjecture.
the change was permanently arranged, and it
was subsequently found so advantageous, that
the same n1ethoclwas tri ed in the permanent
batteri es. and, in like manner, the result has
proved s~tisfactory. At present, the generator
reseLnbles, in its principal features, the one
Digitized b1 Go gle 0!1c;tl
rldi 'rom
INDIA~ UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
ELECTRICITY•
known as Wollast;on's trough ; and it is ao
arranged, that the series of plates of copper and
amalgamated zinc, arranged for the evolution
of the electric fluid, admit of being placed in a
corresponding series of cells, filled with well-
washed and dry sand. The Uflited Srvic,
·G~ette states, that all that ia necessary in ordet
to use the instrument is, ■lightly t,o moiatenthe
sand with dilut.ed sulphuric acid.
The conducting wires are, at their ends, ot
less diameter, and are so arranged as to form
+,hecoiled magnets. 'fhose in the diagram are
}ten in connexion with the works ; the electric
,urrent, taking the course indicated by the
arrows, occasions the deflection of the needle.
The following engraving represents the in-
terior of the machine• and shows the means by
which the magnet is connected with the electric
current. The parts lettered a are the key-shafts,
,vhich, on being turned to the right or left by a
handle, pushes one of the springs, c, from its
point of contact, cl, and, by changing the course
of the electric current, produces a corresponding
cha.nge in the position of the ne~dle.
In making a communication to the person
stationed at the point where he ·wishes the
information to be received, the operator, by
turning the handle to the right or left, breaks
the electric current; then, pressing the wire
against pins connected with the battery-poles,
the coils of wire receive their full deflective
force, and attract the magnetic neediesto either
side, according to the cow-se of the current.
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
ELECTRIG
'tELEGRAFH. 148
Thus, if the stream of electricity passes into the
coil on the right, the upper part of th~ 11eedle
will be attracted t9wards it; if the stream passes
into the coil on the left, then the needle will,in
like manner, be attracted to it; thus, giving the
whole motion necessary to the po1nters. The
time which elapses between the moving of the
Digitizedb, Go gle 0!1c;tl
rldi 'rom
INDIA~ UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
144 tLECTRICITY.
l1andles and the effect on the pointers, is im-
perceptible, though we must believe· tl1at it
really follows it. The dial is divided into five
circles, each containing a number of letters, or
signs. The left-hand needle moving to the left
twice, gives a; three times, b; once to the right
and once to the left, c; once to the left and once
to the right, d; once to the right, e; twice, /;
three times, g. The order is then taken up by
the right-l1and needle moving once to the left
for h; twice for i; three times for le; once to
the right and once to the left for l; once to the
left, and once to the right, for m; once to the
right for n; twice for o; and three times for p.
The remaining signs are made by two needles
working conjointly, so that the sin1ultaneous
movement of the two, once to the left, indicates
r; twice for s; tl1ree times for t; once to the
rigJ1t, and once to the left, for u; once to the
right for w; twice for ~; and three times for g.
At the end of every word given, the left-hand
needle, moving once to the right, to the cross,
indicates that the word is con1pleted. If the
receiver understands the wora, he signifies it by
moving the same pointer twice to the left, and
twice .to the right, which n1eans yes; if the
communication is not understood, then the
needle points twice to the right, and twice to the
.left, which indicates no. The original word is
then repeated; if figures are wanted, the mo-
tions for each letter are doubled. Previous!y
to giving a signal, the attention of the operator
is called ·by the ringing of a bell, which is
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
R..\ILWAYTELEGRAPH. 145
,,ccomplished by an apparatus as simple as it is•
ingenious.*
That communications by this means may
often be of great importance, is evident, from
many newspaper paragraphs. The following
appeared in the early part of 1847: "On Friday
evening the following message was received at,
the Chesterfield station: ' Tell Derby, a Mr. H.
has escaped from the York Asylum, and is
supposed to laave fire-arms about his person.
Search all the trains from York. He is tall,
has a crooked no~e, and has a green coat with
pockets at the side. Tell the police to look
·out.' To this message another succeeded from
Leeds: ' He is caught at Leeds; they have him
quite secure.'"
An establishment has lately been opened
near the Bank of England, in which telegraphic
intelligence may be despatched, or received, in
all the principal to\Vns of our country. The
difficulties which have existed in reference to
sub-marine telegraphs appear to have been
overcome; for the tii:ne occupied from the com..
mencement of ·carrying the telegraph across
Portsmouth harbour, and transmitting signals,
does not occupy a quarter-of-an-hour. The
telegraph, which ha.CJthe appearance of an
ordinary rope, is coiled into one of the dockyard
boats, one end of it ·being made fast on shore;
and, as the boat is pulled across, the telegraphic
• For a fuller account of the electric telegraph, see " The
Visitor," for January, February, and March, 1848; from
l\•hic!1 !l·;anyfncts, now spven, have been taken.
Di itiz y g a.1 glrial 'rom
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
14:8 a&OTBICITT.
rope is gradually paid out over the Item, its
superior gravity causing it to sink to the bot-
tom imm~diately. The telegraph consists of
but this line ; and, unlike those along the
varioua railways, requires no return wires to
perfect the circuit. 'l'he electric fluid ie trans-
mitted from the batteries in the dockyard,
through the submersed insulated wire to the
oppoaite shore; the fluid returning to the nega•
tive pole through the water wi~ut the aid of
any metallic conductor, except a short pil'.'Ce
ot
wire thrown over the dockyard parapet into the
water, and connecting lt with the batteries.
The fact of the water acting aa a ready retum
"°nduotor, is established beyo~d question. In
1842, Mr. Snow· Harris, when proving the
efficiency of his Iightning:..Conduoton in his
experiments from this dockyard to the Oreites,
exemplified that water would serve to complete
the electric circuit. On that occasion, the
distance traversed by the return current through
the water was but trifling compared with the
space accomplished in the present instance.
The batteries used are Smee's; and a very
delicate and accurate galvanic detector, invented
by Mr. Hay, the chemical lecturer of the dock-
yard, has also been brought into requisition.
Independent of the simplicity of thia sub-marine
telegraph, it has an advantage which even
the telegraphs on land do not possee1--in the
event of accident, it can be replaced in ten
minutes.
At the last meeting of the British Association,
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
ELECTRIC
BI.EGBAPH. 14:7
the chairman, ·sir R. II. Inglis, thut adverted
to the progress of the electric telegraph, from
a report presented to the Legislative Council
and Auembly of New Brunswick, relative to
a project for constructing a railway, and with
it a lint! of electro-magnetic telegraph, from
Halifax to Quebec:-
" The eyst;emis daily extending. It was,
however, in the United States of America that
it was first adopted on a great ecale, by pro-
fessor Mol'lle,in 1844; and it is there that it is
now already developed most exteMively. Lines
for above thirteen hundred miles are in action,
and connect those states with Her Majesty'•
Canadian provinces; and it is in a course of
development so rapid that, in the word~ of the
report of Mr. Wilkinsor;i to my distinguished
friend, his excellency air W. E. Colebrook, the
·governor of New Brunswick, 'no 8Chedule of
telegraphic lines can now be relied upon for a
month in mccession, as hundreds of miles may
·be added in that space of time. So easy an
·attainment does such a result appear tobe, and
so lively is the interest fe)t in its accomplis}i-
ment, that it is scarcely doubtful that the ,vhole
pf the populous parts of the United States will,
within two or three years, be covered ,vith a
net-work, like a spider's web, su8pending its
principal threads upon important points, along
the sea-board of the Atlantic on one side, and
upon similar points along the lake frontier on
the other.' I am indebted to the same report
for another fact, which I think the association
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz y
148 ELECTRICIT'1.
will ·regard with equal interest :-' The con-
fidence in the efficiency of telegraphic commu-
nication has now become so established, that
the most important commercial transactions
daily transpire, by its means, between corre-
spondents several hundred miles apart. Ocular
evidence of this was afforded me by a commu-
nication a few 1ninutes old between a merchant
in Toronto, and his correspondent in New York;
distant about six hundred and thirty-two miles.'
I am anxious to call your attention to the
advantages which other classes also may ex-
perience from this mode of communication, as
I find it in the same report :-' When the
Hibernia steamer arrived in Boaton, in Jan-
uary, 1847, with the news of the scarcity in
Great Britain, Ireland, and other parts of
Europe, and with heavy orders for agricultural
produce, the farmers in the interior of the
states of New York, informed of the state of
things by the magnetic telegraph, were throng-
ing the streets of Albany with innumerable
team-loads of grain, almost as quickly after the
arrival of the steamer at Boston, as the news of -
that arrival could ordinarily have reached them.
I may add that, irrespectively of all its advan~
tages to the general community, the system
appears to give already a fair return of interest
to the individuals or companies who have
invested their capital in its application.' "
Professor Morse states, as the result of im-
provements in this telegraph, the president's
message, entire, on the subject of the war .with
g a.1 glrial 'rom
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
CONSTANCYOF NA.TlJB'E. 14:9
Mexico, was transmitted with perfect accuracy
at the rate of ninety-nine letters per minute.
His skilful operators in Washington and Balti-
more printed these characters at the rate of
.ninety-eight, onehundred-and-one, onehundred-
and-eleven, and one of them actually printed
one hundred-and-seventeen per minute. He
must be an expert penman who can write
legibly more than one hundred letters per min-
ute; consequently, this mode of communication
equals, or nearly equals, tl1e most expeditious
mode of recording thought !
Here, then, we closeour series of iJlustrations
of ,vhat is popularly termed " Natural Magic,"
but, strictly speaking, of natural laws ; having
glanced at the arrangements of mechanical skill,
terrestrial pl1enomena, chen1ical wonders, ,and
the effects of light, heat, and electricity.
In doing so, we are reminded of the words
of the psalmist:-" Thy faithfulness is unto all
generations : thou hast established the earth,
and it abideth. They continue this day ac-
cording to thine ordinances: for all are thy
servants," Psa. cxix. 90, 91.
The constancy of nature, thus so clearly
indicated, is illustrated by ordinary experience.
'fhe child who :flies l1is kite in the air, or
pl~es his little ship on the surface of the stream,
or gathers together the dry leaves to make a
blaze, yea·, even by the food that he eats, and
by his moveu1ents in his daily w~lks, prov~s
that nature has la,vs, and that in them there 11
continuance. In after-life, the fact is still more
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
.. ..,v
obvious. Every day and every night bear
their explicit testimony to it; Water finds iu,
way to the ocean by a thousand channels; it is
raised to the higher regions of the atmosphere
to be dispersed in light and fleecy clouds over
the four quarters of the globe; and, at length,
accomplishes its circuit, by falling in showers
on the dry and thirsty ground.
"It needs, however," says Chalmers, "the
aid of phil(kqophy to learn how unvarying
nature is in all her processes-how even her
seeming anomalies can be traced to a law that
is inflexible-for what might appear at first
to be the caprices of her waywardness, are, in
fact, the evolutions of a mechanism that never
changes-and that, the more thoroughly she is
sifted and put to the test by the interrogations
of the curiou1, the more certainly will they
find that she walks by a rule which knows no
abatement; and perseveres with obedient foot-
step in that even course, from which the eye
of strictest scrutiny has never yet detected one
hair's- breadth of deviation. It is no longer
doubted by men of science, that every remain-
ing semblance of irregularity in the universe
is due, not to the fickleness of nature, but to
the ignorance of man_:_that her nioat hidden
movements are conducted with a uniformity as
rigorous as fate-that even the fitful agitations
of the weather have their law and principle-
that the intensity of every breeze, and the
number of drops in every shower, and the
formation of every cloud, and all the occurring
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
CONSTANCY
OF NATURE. 151
alternations of storm and sunshine, and the
endless shift1ngs of temperature, and those tre-
mulous varieties of the air which our instru-
ments have enabled us to discover, but have
not enabled us to explain-that still, they
follow each other by a method of succession,
which, though greatly more intricate, is yet as
absolute in itself as the order of the seasons, or
the mathematical courses of astronomy. Thia
is the impression of every philosophical mind
with regard to nature, and it is strengthened
by ~..ach new accession that is made to science.
The more we are acquainted with her, the n1ore
are we led to recognise her constancy, and t,o
view her as a mighty, though complicated
machine, all whose reaultaare sure, and all
whose workings are invariable I"
Who is not filled with amazement in cont.em..
plating the power of the Almighty?· Only let it
be his will to set one·of his agents loose, and the
earth and all that it contains shall be burned
up. Well may we tremble at the thought of that
" wrath which is revealed from heaYen against
all ungodliness and unrighteomness of men !"
On those who believe not, the curse of Jehovah
abides. Would that men considered how fearful
a thing it is to fall into the hands of the living
God I Convinced by the Holy Spirit of their
guilt and danger, they would then fly to the only
hope set before them in the gospel.
Di itiz by
" In vain we aeek tor peace with God
By methods of our own:
Jesua,there 'a nothing but thy blood
Canbring u near the throne.
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
Tlae threatenings of thy broken law
Impress our souls with dread;
If God his sword of vengeance draw,
It strikes our spirits dead.
But thine illustrioms Sacrifice
Hatb answered these demands ;
And peace, and pardon, from the skies,
Came down by Jesus' hands."
It has been well remarked by Bacon, that " it
is heaven on earth to live in charity, to turn
upon the poles of truth, and to rest in Provi-
dence." The tenderness and 1ninuteness of the
Divine care are taught us by our Lord himself:
" Fear not them which kill the body, but are
not able to kill the soul : but rather fear him
,vhich is able to destroy both soul and body in
hell. Are not two sparrows sold for a farthing?
and one of then1 shall not fall on the ground
without your Father. But the very hairs of
your head are all numbered. Fear ye not
therefore, ye are of more value than many
sparrows," Matt. x. 28-31.
Let, then, all who are reconciled to God
through the death of his Son, be comforted by
this truth. God is not far from every one of
us; the vast and the minute are alike under his
control ; and he has graciously promised that
all things shall " work together for good to
them that love God, to them who are the called
according to his purpose."
In the ignorance and superstition of the
human mind, applications are so!lletimes made
to those who are supposed to be endowed with
n1agical powers. Such practices are cunden1ncd
in the Scriptures as vain and wicked. If ence,
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
THE OVERRULINGPBOVIDENCEOF GOD. 153
says the prophet Isaiah," When they shall say
unto you·, Seek unto them that have familiar
spirits, and unto wizards that peep, and that
mutter : should not a people seek unto their
God? for the ·living to the dead? To the law
and to the testimony: if they epeak not accord-
ing to this word, it is because there is no ligh,
in them," Isa. viii. 19, 20.
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
CHAPTER X.
Claims of the church of Rome to miraculoua po\\·er-The
1'
..
ranciscans and Dominicans-Tale of bishop Remi-Tbe
effect of relics-Friars' pretended dispossessum of evil
spirits-Tragical event-Appearance of the virgin Mary
to shepherds exposed-Pretended miracle of the Greek
church.
THE Romish church, in all ages, has affirmed
that to it has been granted the power of work-
ing miracles. Its "Lives of the Saints," a .
series extended avowedly through ·many cen-
turies, abound with relations of what are de-
scribed as supernatural appearances, but which
we can only trace to a very different cause.,
The two following facts are given by Luther:
-'' In the monastery of Isenach stands an
image, which I have seen. ,v
hen a wealthy
person came thither to pray to it, (it was Mary
with her child,) the child turned away its
face fron1 the sinner to the mother, as if it
refused to give ear to his praying, and was
therefore to seek mediation and help from
l\fary the mother. But, if the sinner gave
liberally to that monastery, then the child
turned to hin1 again; and if he prornised to give
n1ore, theu the child Hhoweditself very fricudly
and- loving, and stretched out his arms over
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
him, in the form of a cross. But this image
was made hollow within, and prepared with
locks, lines, and screws; and behind it stood
a knave ro move them ; .and so were the
people mocked and deceived, taking it to be a
miracle wrought by Divine Providence I"
" A Dutchman, making his confeasion to a
mass-priest at Rome, promised, by an oath, to
keep secret whatever the priest would impart
to him,.till he came into Germany, upon which
the priest pretended to give him a leg of the
ass on which Christ rode into Jerusalem, very
neatly bound up in a silken cloth, and said,
'This is the holy relic on which the Lord
Christ did corporeally sit, and with his sacred
legs touched this ass's leg I' The Dutchman
was wonderfully pleased, and carried the holy
relic with him into Germany, and when he
came upon the borders, boasted of his holy
possession in the presence of four others ai
his comrades, at the same time showing it to
them ; but each of the four having also
received a· leg from th~ priest, and promised
the same secrecy, he inquired with astonish...
ment, ' Whether that ass had five legs I'"
The frauds practised by the professed minis-
ters of religion, during the almost universal
prevalence of popery, most affectingly display
the depravity of the human heart, and the
impious tendency of false religion. Never,
p~rhaps, was a stratagem acted more infamous
than one in Berne, in the year 1500, the follow-
ing acoo11ntof which drawn from Ruchet's
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
"Histoire de Ja R~formntion en Suisse," and
Hottinger's "Hist. Eccles. Hch1
et.," is given in
Mosheim's "Eccles. Hist." A similar account
n1ay be found in bishop Barnet's Travels
through France, Italy, etc. The stratagem in
question was the consequence of a rivalship
between the Franciscans and Dominicans, and
more especially of their controversy concerning
the immaculate conception of the virgin Mary.
The former maintained, that she was born
without. the blemish of original sin ; the latter
asserted the contrary. The doctiine of the
Franciscans, in an age of darkness and super-
stition, could not but be popular; and hence,
the Dominicans lost ground from day to day.
To support the credit of their order, they re-
solved, at a chapter held at Vimpsen in the
year 1504, to have recourse to fictitious visions
and dreams, in ,vhich the people at that time
had an easy faith; and they determined to
make Berne the scene of their operation.a. A
person named Jetzer, who was extremely sim-
ple, and much inclined to austerities, and who
had taken their habit as a lay-brother, was
chosen as the instrument of the delusions they
were contriving. One of the four Dominicans,
who had undertaken the management of this
plot, conveyed himself secretly into Jetzer's
ce11;and, about miqnight, appeared to him in a
horrid figure, surrounded with howling dogs,
and seen1ed to blow fire from his nostrils, by
the means of a box of combustibles which he
held near his mouth. f.n thia frightful form, he
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
THEFIWrolSCAKSANDDOlllNICANS. 1~7
approached Jetzer's bed, told him that he was
the ghost of a Dominican, who had been killed
at Paris, as a judgment from heaven for laying
aside his monastic habit ; that he was con-
d_emned to purgatory for this crime; adding,
that, by his means, he might be rescued from
his misery, which was beyond expression.
This story, accompanied with horrible cries
and howlings, frightened poor Jetzer out of
the little wits he had, and engaged him to
promise to do all in his power to deliver the
Dominican from his torment. Upon this, the
impostor told him, that nothing but the most
extraordinary mortifications, such as the disci-
pline of the whip, performed during eight days
by the whole monastery, and Jetzer's lying
prostrate, in the form of one crucified, in the
chapel, during n1ass, could contribute to his
deliverance. He added, that the performance
of these mortifications would draw down upon
Jetzer the peculiar protection of the blessed
virgin ; and concluded by saying that he
should appear to him again, accompanied with
two other spirits.
1"Iorningwas no s~oner come, than Jetzer
gave an account of this apparition to the rest
of the convent, who all unanimously advised
him to undergo the discipline that was enjoined ;
and every one consented to endure his share
of the task imposed. The deluded simpleton
obeyed, and was admired as a saint by the
1nnititnde that crowded about the convent,
wLile~the four friars, that managed the impos-
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
158 PRETIKDKD
MllUOLU.
ture, magnified, in the most pompom manner,
the miracle of this apparition, in t.heir sermons,
and in their discourse. The night after, the
apparition waa .renewed, with the addition of
two impostors, dressed like devils; and Jetzer's
faith was augmented by hearing from the
spectre all the secrets of his life and thoughts,
which the impostors had learned from his
confessor. In this, and some subsequent
. scenes, (the detail of whose enormities we shall
here omit,) the impostor talked much to Jetzer
of the Don1inican order, which ha said wns
peculiar Iy dear to the blessed virgin : he added,
that the virgin knew herself to he conceived in
original sin; that the doctors who taught the
contrary were in purgatory; that the blessed
virgin abhorred the Franciscans for making
her equal with her Son ; and that the town of
Berne would be destroyed for harbouring such
plagues within her walls. In one of these
apparitions, Jetzer imagined that the voice of
the spectre resen1bled that of the prior of the
convent, and he was not mistaken ; hut, not
suspecting a fraud, he gave little· attention to
this. The prior appeared in varioua forms,
sometimes in that of St. Barbara, at others, in
that of St. Bernard; at length, he assumed
that of the virgin Mary; and, for that purpoSEs
clothed himself in the habits that were em-
ployed to adorn the statue of the virgin in the
great festivals ; the little images, that on th~se
days are placed on the altars, were made use o(
for angels, which, being tied to a cord that
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
THE .FRANCISCANS
AMDDOHINICANS. 159
passed through a pulley over Jetzer's head,
rose up and down, and danced about the
pretended virgin to increas~ the delusion. The
virgin thus equipped, ad~ressed a long dis-:-
course to Jetzer, in which, among other. things,
she told him that she was conceiveil in originaJ
sin, though she had remained but a short titne
under that blemish. ·She gave him, as a. mi-
raculous proof of her presence, a host, or
consecrated wafer, which turned from white to
red in a moment : and, airer various visits, in
which the greatest enormities were transacted,
the virgin-prior told Jetzer, that she would
give him the most affecting and undoubted
marks of her Son's love, by iinprinting on him
the five wounds that pierced Jesus 01;1tµe cross,
as she had done hefore to St. Lucia and St.
Catharine. Accordingly, she took .his hand
by force, and struck a large nail through it,
which threw the poor dupe into the greatest
torment.
The next night, this masculine virgin
brought, as he pretended, some of th~ linen
in which Christ had been buried, to soften th~
wound, and gave Jetzer a soporific draught,
which had in it the blood of an unbaptized
child, eome grains of incense, and of conse-
crated salt, some quicksilver, and the hairs of
the eye-brows of a child, all of which, with
some stupifying and poisonous ingredients,
were mingled together by the prior with magic
ceremonies, and a sole1nn dedication of himself
to the devil in the hope oi his succour. This
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz y
160 PRETENDEDMIRACLES,
draught thre,v the poor ,vretch into a !ort or
lethargy, during which the monks imprinted
on his body the other ·four wounds of Christ,
-in such a manner that he felt no pain. When
he awoke, he found, to his unspeakable joy,
these iinpressions • on his body, and came at
last to fancy himself a representative of Christ
in the various parts of his passion. He was,
1n this state, exposed to the admiring multi-
tude on the principal altar of the convent, to
the great mortification of the Franciscans.
The Dominicans gave him some other draughts,
·that thre,v him into convulsions, which were
followed by a voice conveyed through a pi~
into the mouths of two. images, one of Mary,
and another of the child Jesus ; the fonner
of which had tears painted upon its cheeks in
a lively manner. The little Jesus asked his
mother, by means of t.his voice, (which was
that of the prior,) why she ,vept? and she
answered, that her tears ,vere owing to the
impious manner in which the Franciscans
attributed to her the honour that was due to
him, in saying that she was conceived and
born without sin.
The apparitions, false prodigies, nnd abomi-
nable stratagems • of th~se Dominicans were
repeated every night; and the matter was at
length so grossly over-acted, that, simple as
Jetzer ,vas, he at last discovered it, and had
almost killed the prior, who appeared to him
one night in tl1e form of the virgin, with a
crown on her head. The Dominicans, fearing,
g a.1 glrial 'rom
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
THE JfKA.NUUKiUUS A.ND .DOMlfflCAM:t. J.0.l
by this discovery, to lose the fruits of their
imposture, thought the best method would be 1iO
own the whole matter .t,o Jetzer, and to engage
him, by the most seducing promises of opulence
• ·
,i)r i glory, to carry on the cheat. Jetzer was
_. ~ersuaded, or at least he appeared to be so.
The Dominicans, however, suspecting that he
was not entirely gained over, resolved to poison
him ; but his constitution was so vigorous
that, though they gave him poison five several
. times; he was not destroyed by it. One
day, they sent him a loaf prepared with some
spices, wnich, growing green in a day or two,
he threw a piece of it to a wolf's whelps, that .
were in the monastery, and it kille<l them
immediately. At another time, they poisoned
the host, or consecrated wafer, but he escaped
once more. In short, there were no means of
securing him, which the most detestable im-
piety and barbarity could invent, that they did
not put in practice; till, finding at last an oppor-
tunity of getting out of the convent, he threw
himself into the hands of the magistraties, to
whom he made a full discovery of this infernal
plot. The affair being brought to Rome, com-
missaries were sent from thence to examine the
matter; and the wholecheat being fully proved,
the four friars were solemnly degraded from
their priesthood, and were burned alive, on the
last day of May, 1509. Jetzer died some time
after at Constance, having poisoned ·himself,
as was believed by some. Had his life been
taken away before he had found an opportu- •
F
Di itiz y g a.1 glrial 'rom
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
:nityormaking the diaoovery "}ready
mentioned,
this execrable and horrid plot, which, in aany
of lta oiroumstances, was conduoted with an,
would probably have been handed down to
posterity as a atupendoua miracle.
When the Reformatioawas apreadin Lithu~
ania, prince Radzviil was 10 affected by it, that
he went in person to pay the pope all possibl,
honours. His, holiness, on this occasion,· pre
aented him with a precious box of relic,. Tht
prince having returned home, some monks in
treat;ed permission to try the eifect of thest.
relics on a demoniac, who had hitherto re
silted eyery kind of exorcism. They we1e
brought into the church with solemn pomp,
and deposited on the altar, accompanied by an
innumerable crowd. After the usual conjura...
tions, which were unsuccessful, they applied
the relics. The demoniae instantly recovered.
The people called out, ''- A miracle P' and the
prince, lifting his hands and eyes to heaven,
felt, it is said, his faith confirmed. In this
transport of joy, he -observed that a young
gentleman, who was keeper of this treasure of
relics, smiled, and by his motions ridiculed the
miracle. The prince indignantly took the
young keeper of the relics to task ; who, on the
PJ9omise of pardon, gave the following secret
intelligence concerning them. In travelling
from Rome he had lost the box ofrelics, and,
not daring to mention it, he obtained a similar
one, which he had filled with small bones of
dogs and cats, and other trifles similar to what
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
. GBOSS
DIPOSTtJU. j, ti3
were lost. He hoped he might be forgiven for
smiling, when he found such a collection of
rubbish was idolized with such pomp, and had
even the virtue of expelling demons ! It was
by the assistance of this box that the prince
discovered the gross impositions of the monks
and demoniacs, and Radzviil afterwards becaroe
a zealous Lutheran.•
To take another case, for which we are in-
debted to Scott's " History of the Lives of Pro-
testant Reformers in Scotland." At the east end
of the -village of Musselburgh there was a
chapel dedicated to the virgin Mary;its proper
name being Loretta, though it was vulgarly
called Alareit, or Lawreit. There was also a
chapel of the same name in Perth, and many
credulous people of both these places, as well
as the people of Loretta, in Italy, believed that
their chapel contained within it the identical
small brick-built house in which Mary had
dwelt at Nazareth, and that it had been con-
veyed miraculously from its original seat. At
the time now reft~rred to, it was announced in
Edinburgh, and the neighbouring places, that a
miracle would be performed on a certain day,
and a great number of persons consequently
.l8sembled. A stage was erected on the out-
side of the chapel, and, at length, a young man,
apparently blind, was led forward. Many of
those who were present knew this person, and
had, perhaps, often pitied his circumstances.
After various prayers and ceremonies, his eyes,
• ~Iaraeli'• "Curiosities,'~ p. 87.
F2
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
.....
Di itiz by
164: PRETENDED
MIRACLES.
to the satisfaction of the people, appeared. to be
perfectly restored. Returning thanks to the
priests and friars, he now left the stage, and
received the congratulations of the people, some
of whom gave hitn money.
. The true character of the treatment of his
case will appear from the following narrative.
He had been a poor friendless boy, who had
attended the sheep belonging to the ruins ot
Scienna, or Sciennes, about a quarter of a mile
from Edinburgh. It was one of his amuse-
ments to turn up the whites of his eyes ; and,
so effectually did he do this, as to appear, at
pleasure, perfectly blind. The nuns spoke of
him to some priests and friars, and they ]aid
the plan which was afterwards carried out.
The child was secreted for some years from
public view, and, when it was supposed he was
• s°'altered as not to be recognised, he was sent
forth a blind mendicant, ·accompanied by a
person who believed he was born so, and had
previously been supported by the nuns. Bound
by a solemn but rash vow to affect blindness,
he travelled the country for a considerable
time, till at length the trick of his restoration
was played as has already been stated.
Among the numerous publications of M.
Guizot, is an edition of the " Chronicles ot
Frodvard,'' which, in addition to much historical
matter, ascribes many miracles to the bishops or
Rheims. One of them, bishop Remi, it is said,
"was in the house of a wealthy female relative,
conversing with her on religious topics, when her
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
THE MADONNA.. 165
butler announced that there was no ~ore wine in
the cellars. The bishop, seeing her embarrass-
ment, having previously entered some of the
lower apartments himself, proposed to accom-
pany her to the cellar. When they entered it,
he inquired whether there was not a little win~
remaining in a particular cask. The butler
replied, that there was only enough to preserve
it from ·decay. The bishop then desired him
to sh~t the ·door, and not to stir from his posi-
tion, and passing to the other end to the cask,
which was pretty large,· he made the sign or
the cross and prayed. Soon the wine rose up
out of the cask, and flooded·over the cellar-
fioor !" Now, the fact of the bishop's visit to
the cellar first ; of a butler, it might be, not
very acute in ·vision, being desired, after lock-
ing the door, to exclude all witnesses, and to
stand at a distance; and, of a relation of the
bishop, who might easily. be made a con-
federate, being engaged; is surely more than
sufficient to set aside the whole tale. Moreover,
the lady gave, as the result of the prodigy,
which many a conjuror has easily surpassed, a
portion of her estate in perpetuity to the bishop
and his church ! Prodigies pf the Romish
church in abundance have had precisely the
same issue. '
In an official and authorized Roman
Catholic publication, printed in 1881, we are
told that not less than twenty-six pictures ·or ·
the virgin Mary opened and shut their eyes at
Rome ~uring the years 1796 and 1797, which
•
Di itiz y g a.1 glrial 'rom
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
166 PUETENDED IDRAOLES.
was supposed to be an indication of her ·pe~
culiar favour to the inhabitants of that city for
the opposition which they presented to the
French. Among the subscribers to this work
are the four archbishops and eleven bishops of
Ireland.
" An officer in the British arn1ydescribed to
me," says Mr. Hughes, "an extraordinary
scene which he witnessed in Messina, in 1811,
occasioned by a picture of the virgin, in a
church much venerated by the populace. An
inhabitant going in, according to custom, to
offer up his adoration to the Madonna, sud-
denly ran out again, excJairoing, that '·the
virgin u,a, weeping for calamity impending
over the city.' The people rushed in crowds
to the church ; when, lo I to their astonish-
ment and dismay, the tears were, as reported,
trickling over the cheeks of their beloved
patrQness; upon which, the whole multitude
began to weep, and howl, and beat their
breasts, expecting nothing less than an earth-
quake, or a French invasion. At length one,
more acute than the rest, observed that some
water was passing through the roof of the
thurch, and dripping upon the canvas, pointed
out the circumstance; but he nearly fell a
victim to his want of j udgment, for the people
were determined to have a miracle ; nor could
they be persuaded to disperse till the arch-
bishop, a venerable old man, mounted a ladder,
and wiped the lady's eyes with a napkin ; afte1
this, he drew the picture into a oore perpen-
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
AIJSBBTBD
IXOILOIBV. 167
dicular situation, teJUng his audience, that, u
the cause was luckily removed, their patro,ae,,
had promised to weep u.omore."•
The author of " Rome in the N9meteenth
Century" aays: "Privat,e miracles affecting
individuals go on quite commonly every day
wit.bout exciting the smallest attention. These
generally consist in procuring prizes in the_
lottery, curing diseas~s, and casting out devils.
The mode of eifecting this last description of
miracle was communicated to me the other day
by an abate here, and, as I think it extremely
curious, I shall narratie it to you.
" It seems that a certain friar had preached
a sermon during Lent, upon the state of the
woman mentioned in Scripture poesessedwith
seven devils, with so much eloquence and unc-
tion, that a s~ple countryman who heard him
went home, and became persuaded that seven
devils had got possession of him. The idea
haunted his mind, and subjected him to the
most dreadful terrors ; till, unable t;o bear his
sufferings, he unbosomed himself to hia ghostly
father, and asked his counsel. The father, who
had some smattering of science, bethought him-
self, at 18't, of a way to rid the honest man of
his devils and his money together. He told
him it would be necessary to combat with the
devils singly, and, on the day appointed, when
the poor man came with a aum of money-
without which the good father told him the
devil never could be dialodged-he bound the
• Hughe1'a
Travela.Vol. I. p. 1••
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
188 PRETENDEDMIRACLES.
chain .connected with an electrical machine in
an adjoining chamber round his :body-lest, as
lie said, the devil shoul<l fly away with him-
. and, having warned him that the shock would
be terrible when the devil went out of him, he
left him praying devoutly before an image or
the Madonna ; and after some time, gave him a
pretty smart shock, at ,vhich the poor wretch
fell insensible on the floor from terror. As
soon ns he recovered, however, he protested
that he bad seen the devil fly away out of his
1nouth, breathing blue :flamesand sulphur, and
that he felt himself greatly relieved. Seven
electrical shocks at due intervals having ex-
tracted seven sums of money from him, together
with the seven devils, the man was cured, and
a great miracle performed !
Di itiz y
" To us this transaction seemed a notable
piece of credulous superstition on.the one hand,
and fraudulent knavery on the other ; but to
our friend the abate, it only seemed an ingeni-
ous device to cure of his fears a simpleton, over
whose mind reason could have no power-as
the physician cured a lady who fancied she had
a nest of live earwigs in her stomach, not by
arguing with her on the absurdity of such a
notion, but by showing her that an earwig was
killed by a single drop of oil, and making her
swallowa quantity of it.
"But with respect to the man and his
devils, I would ask, why inspire superstitious
terrors to conquer them by deceit,. and why
make him pay so lnuch money ? Yet this is
g a.1 glrial 'rom
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
TllE CONSTITUTIONALIST AND HIS BROTHER. 169
nothing to other things that are of daily occur-
rence."
In aome of the pro~nces of France, miracles
are stated continually to be performed, and the
peasants blindly adopt all the extravagances
presented to their acceptance. In the little
town of F~amp there is a fountain, the wat.er
of which is saidto do wonders ; and thousands
o( pilgrims annually resort to it from the neigh-
bouring country. The curtSdistributes to each
a bottle of this water, accompanying it with
some Latin words, receiving two sous for his
trouble. This amounts to a considerable sum.
In.another town,
Andelys, there is also a foun-
tain which, it is said, possesses, once a year, the
sovereign virtue ofcuring rheumatism, palsy, and
nervous affections. The pilgrims either plunge
the diseased member into the water, or throw
themselves in entirely, and, afterwards,follow
the procession in their wet clothes.
In the month of June, 1824, in a small
village, called Artes, near Hostalrich, about
twelve leagues from Barcelona, there was a
constitutionalist, and therefore' one opposed to
theruling power, with which the priesthood
was fully identified. This man being at the
poi~t of death, his brother called on the curate,
and _req~ested ~im to come and administer the
sacraments. The curate refused; affirming
that the brother, as a constitutionalist, was a
villain, an ~pious wretch, an enemy to God
and man; he was lost, without mercy, and that,
therefore,it was useless to confess him. The
Di itiz by
g
f 3
Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
brother askecl whence this information Wij~
derived; the reply was, that God himself tol(j.
the curate this during the s~rifice of thQIllp,ss.
In vain the brother reiterateq his intreatif;3&
; tlle
curate was inexorable. A few <l.iysafte;i·,the
constitutionalist expired, and the brother de-
manded for the body the rites of ~epulture,
The- curate refused, alleging that tqe sQul 9f
the departed was lost, an<l.that it w~ in vain
to inter the body; adding, "For du.ring the
night, tQe devils will come and carry it Q.WJy;
and in forty days, you yours~lf will m.e~the
eame fate."
The Spaniard not treating this decl~r~ti<m
with implicit faith, but, with hi$ ~uspiciQU
Awakened, wat,ched during the n.ight, with. hit,
pistols loaded, beside the body of his brot~,
Between twelve a.nd one o'clock, ~ k~k waa
heard ~t the doo:r, and a voi~e excl~ed, " l
command. you to open the door,in the pp.me of
the living God l Open I if not, your jnsbt,ptruin
js at hand." The Sp~nia:rd refused ; anci
~hortly after he s~w enter, by the window,
three figures, cove:r~ with the skms of wild
J>easts, provided with horns, claws, and tails;
~d, as they we.re about canying off $he coffia
containing the body, the Spaniard ~d, and
shot one of theIIJ. d~ad; the othm-stQQ1'
t.o
flight; he fired after them, and wounded both.
One of them died in a few minu~s, tb.e Qtha-
P..scaped. In the morning, a discovery w~
made: the people went t.o church, but ther~
was :pocurate to officiate: it was found shortly
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
after, on examining those who had been ~hot,
that one was the curate, the other the vicar;
the person wo~ded was the sacristan, who con-
fessed the whole plot. The case was brought
~e. the tfi.hllQ~of Barceloqa. *
.Ai!d
yet, despite of tlie frequent exposure of its
wickedpretences, the Romish church contends ·
It Uµs bQllras earnestly for the possession ot
1'Jira0,µlqqs ~ndowments as it ever did. As it
c~im~ to b~ tµ1changeable, this is manifestly
its only cours~. Ace<;>rdingly,it has been
JLfll,medof ~e last person~ added to the
l.W.Jni.s4
~lt!ndar, only a few years ago, that
tlley wrought mir~les. The time of canoni-
zation is s~a.Qiously defe,:rredtiU two centuri~~
after the <leceaseof the p~riie~ ; but there is no
difficulty in seeipg tJi~~all the avowed devia-
tions from the laws of nature attributed to the
canonized, are impio'1S pretences. Dr. Harsnett,
afterwardsarchbisbol? of York, said, long sin9e,
"None but ~be pope alld ~is sctolars Call
OQgge
a miracl~ kindUe,~~d ~e and his priests
~ despatch a zµi,acle ~ ~asily as a squirrel
ean crp,cke a initte. A pii.r~le iq the b:read,
a miracle ip th~WW~,
a miracl~ in the holy
water, a mirAClei;q.h9ly oyJ~,a miraclfJ in
lamps,cmnd1'38,
hffad~, bones, stqµ,e,i nothjp~
donein religio:q withQut ~ Jni~acl~ an.4
a vi~e.'
And even :Petrarch thus wrote :-
. . ....
., Fountain of grief, abode of anger,
Di itiz by
Schaql of errors, and temple of heresy ·
Formerly Rome, now Babylon lalse andguiltf;
Through whom there areaq many tean u4 !lllh• ;
• Porelgn Quarterly Review.
8
Or1<;JI
r~ 'rom
INDIANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
O mistress of deceit; 0 prison of anger,
Where the good perish, and the bad are cherished and
engendered,
Hell of the living I It will be a greatmiracle
If Christ is not angry with thee at last."
So recently as the beginning· of the year
1847, the virgin Mary was said to have ap-
peared to two shepherds, in the district ol
Grenoble. The so-called miracle was blazed
forth far and wide, and an engraved repre-
sent.ation of the appearance was widely distri-
buted. Nor was this all: it was said that the
virgin sat on a stone during the interview,
and that, on this being broken, after she was
gone, there was found in the interior an image
of our Lord ! But what are the facts that have
been discovered since? That the priests em-
ployed a lady to personate the virgin; and
that the figure in the stone was traced by a
French officer, who, with a companion, placed
it on that .spot for a joke; as, in Italy, objects
of modern manufacture are buried, and then
dug up, to be passed oif on the unwary as
really antique! In such instances, however,
money is frequently made; while the French
officers had no mercenary inten~ns.
· We close these exposures with a pretended
miracle of the Greek church. At the church
of the Holy Sepulchre at Jerusalem, there is
annually a ceremony to which multitudes are
attracted. It is pretended by the Greek
priests, that, on a particular day, u sacred fire
J>roceeds fron1 the sepulchre : the pilgrims,
therefore: congregated at Je11.1salem,
attend
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
THE GREll :rmE. 118
there to light theirs; these are then extin-
guished, and carefully preserved, to be added
to the garment dipped in the Jordan when
they are buried. All, however, await the
arrival of the Turkish governor; for, " till he
aITives, the miracle is not certainly to take
place."
To quote from some travellers who were
present at the ceremony, during the year 1846,
we are informed that " it was a very remark-
able scene. The large area of the church was
densely crowded; but, around the sepulchre, a
space of about four feet wide was kept clear by
a double line of Turkish soldiers. At short
intervals_of time, a number of infatuated and
highly-excite<l men and boys entered in, and,
rushed round and round with desperate energy,
screaming and hallooing like so many maniacs.
Some stood upright on a friend's shoulders,
who ran with the rest till an unlucky stumble
threw both to the ground. One old man was
particularly conspicuous; he generally headed
the rest, and seemed to be fitter for a strait-
waistcoat than to be the leader of a religious
procession. He ~ced, shouted, and threw
himself intoall sorts of postures. At last he
mounted 9n another frantic devotee, and urged
him to his utmost speed: they continued their
mad course till he was thrown down violently
against two of the soldiers ; they seized him by
the hair of his head, and hauled him out of the
church. In a few minutes, however, he re-
turned, and was more outrageous than before.
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
174 l'RE'i'ENbED ~IirtACLES.
Thi1s,for two hours, the church was a scene
of rtoise, confusion, and frantic excitement. At
two o'clock the governor arrived, and quietly
took his seat~ The racing pilgrims we~a driven
off the course, and; shortly after, h. process~on.
of priests, headed by the patriarch, and fol-
lowed by a m~tely group of ragged fellows,
bearlhg shabby banners~ walked slt>wlyround
three times, chantittg some prAyers, The
patriarch was a grey-headedold man, with
a cunnihg expression of cotintettance;his very
look seemedto say, 'I funabout to b.~t a lie-
what fools ate you to believi:! it I' There i8 4
cir~ttlar hole in the side of the little chapel
bttilt over the sepulchre; close td 1ti mah Wail
posted, protected by the tJoldiers. He was a
rich pilgtim, probably ti.fi Artneniitt, -whohad
paid handsdmely for thE! fltivili:!ge tlf being the
first to light his tapers _bythe ~oly fire. Th~
old patriarch, having divested hitnself of most
of his fine trappings, entered alt1ile ittto _the
sanctuary. In a tninttte after, _he pushed
throug~ the. hole a q~antity of flaniihg ~ottot1;
dipped 1nspirits of W1ne; the favoured ptlgritti
eagerly lighted a.bunch of tapers byit, and,
escorted by the soldiers, hurried put of tli~
church. 'fhe ~xcitement waa how nt its
height t a scene fbllowPd whil3h baffles de-
scription. 'fhere 1\ras
.a tremendous ru~h
towards the . flame, still held out by th~
patriarch, and ea~h strove who should light his
taper the earliest. Those who could not get
up to head-quarters '\Vere obliged to procure
a
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
TlfPlPOwtR OF SATiN. 175
light from the more fortunate, and in three
minutes the church and adjoining chapels were
in a blaze. Thousands of wax-candles and
fiambeaux were glittering over the space; some
had forty or fifty long thin tapers bound to-
gether, which were intended as valuable pre-
sents for friend• at home. It was, for the
time, like Bedlam let loose: some were kneeling
in 8Cltatic adorat.iont others screaming, dancing,
and jumping; the more zealous put the flame
into their mouths, or applied it to their faces or
naked breasts. It is asserted that the holy fire
does not burn or hurt any one, but Mr. Dalton
noticed that few kept it long enough near to
gife it a fair trial. In ten minutes every taper
W1i8 extinguished, and the pilgrims dispersed,
carrying away the precious relics."*
· In former parts of this volume, it has been
shown that tJttrprising effects are :frequently
prod.need for the amusement of others, or from
the love of gain and celebrity, so common to
fallen man. And, doubtless, wherever true
piety does not operate-the piety which is
displayed in supreme love to Goa, and pure
attd expansive benevolence to tnan-there will
be some manifestation of the " spirit" that
worketh in "the children of disobedience."
While " he that doeth righteousness is righteous,
be that committeth sin is of the devil; for the
devilsinneth from the beginning," 1John iii. 7, 8.
. To transgressors of every age our Lord still
says, " Ye are of your father the devil, and the
Di itiz by
g
,c The 'Boat and the Caravan."
Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
176· PRET~~ED MmACLES•
..
usts of your futher ye will do," John viii. 44.
And bondage to the " god of this ,vorld" brings
on his captives, whether old or young, rich or
poor, instructed or untaught, not only guilt but
misery; \,bile " the end of these things is
death," Rom. vi. 21.
But when we see impi<:'us pretences em-
ployed in order to hold the minds of •nin
the most degrading vassalage,we have a fearful
display 0£ enormous guilt, accumulated by a
wilful subjection to " the father of lies." Satan
waa "a liar from the beginning._" To accom-
plish his purposes, he can " transform himself
into an angel of light;" and still he leads mul-
titudes "captive at his will." Marvellous is t~e
forbearance of the Supreme Governor of the
universe, ,vho does not at once ease him of his
adversaries, but still richly and freely offers •
the blessings of salvation to a world which lieth
in the wicked one. Who will not desire that
the goodness of God may lead the greatest
transgressors to repentance ? And, as one act
of submission to the prince of the power of the
air is a fearful step towards an absolute and
eternal thraldom, it becomes each of us to
imitate those who could say, " We are not
ignorant of his devices;" constantly to present
at the throne of grace the petition, " Lead us
not into temptation, but deliver us from evil;"
and to trust implicitly in Him who, on the
cross having'' spoiled principalities and powers,
made a show of them openly, triumphing over
them in it," 2Cor. ii.11; Matt. Yi.13; Col.ii. 15.
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
... l
CHAPTER XI.
Real Miracles-A miracle defined by archbishop Tillotaon-
The miracles of Moses-The miracles of our Lord Jeana
Christ-The miracles of the apostlea-Co1liaion with those
who pretended to supernatural power-The magicians of
~t-Magic:il arts at Ephesus-The miracuJoua power of
the Saviour inherent, that of the prophets and apoetles
derived-~tion of miraculouagifta.
WE now enter on a brief consideration of un-
questionable miracles. As the grant of Divine
revelation was made to some persons who were
to proclaim it to the whole human race, so,
while holy men of God spake as they were
moved by the Holy Ghcst, the broad seal of
Heaven was placed by miracles on their testi-
mony. As a man's signature gives validity to
his bond, or tl1e credentials of an ambassador
demonstrate his right to transact the business ot
his sovereign ; so the supernatural works per-
formed by ·the prophets, by our Lord Jesus
Christ, and by his apostles, prove as fully to
those who witnessed them, that the words they
heard proceeded from God, as if they had
listened to him pronouncing them with an
audible voice from the excellent glory; while
ajl to whom their testimony has been faithfully
tran.smitted, may cherish an equal confidence
8
Or1QI
rial 'rbm
INDIANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
178 lllRACLES.
It has been well remarked by archbishop
Tillotson, that "there are two things necessary .
in a miracle: that there should be a supernatural
effect, and that this effect should be evident to
sense." He adds, "Neither in Scripture, nor
in profane authors, nor in common use, is any-
thing called a mi~acle but what falls under the
cognizance of the senses; a miracle being
nothing else but a su~atural effect evident to
sense, t~e great end and design whereof is to be
the sensible proof and conviction of something
that we do not see." The church of Rome
affirms that, in the celebration of the mass, the
bread and wine are changed into the very body
and blood, soul and Divinity, of our Lord Jesus
Christ; though they retain exactly the same
appearance that they had before the change is
said to have occurred. Hence, the same writer
argues, " For want of a supernatural effect
evident to sense, transubstantiation is no mira-
cle ; a sign or a miracle is always a thing
sensible, otherwise it could be no sign. Now-;
that such a change in tran~ubstantiation should
really be wrought, ::indyet that th~re 8honld
be no sign of it, is a thing very wonderful; but
not to sense, for our senses percei~e no change•
.Andthat a thing should remain to all appearance
just as it was, hath nothing at all wonderful in.
it. We wonder, indeed, when we see a strange
thin~ done, but no man.wonders when he sees
nothing done."
Numberless were the tniracles wrought by
Jehovah in ancient times, in behalf of his chosen
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
MIRACLES IN THE WILDERNESS. 179
peopl~. In· vain does infidelity object that the
contentf3 of the books of Moses may not be true;
since, had they been false, it was absolutely
impossible tl_iat ~1ey could have obtained any
credit. The number of the people must have
Amounted to three millions, and every adult
person was a competent judge whether the
things related to ha~e taken place within his
own memory had really happened.
The Israelites would not have believed that
the Re~ Sea was divided to give them a pass•
age---that, during their pilgrimage of forty
years in the 'Wilderness, a miraculous cloud hacl
guided them by day, and become n.t night a
fire casting round its radiance-that they hu.d
been supplied with manna from heaven, falling
on six successive days around their ca.mp,and on
the last of them a double quantity, to prevent its
·being gathered on the sabbath-that God had
published his law on the mount that might not
be touched, amidst ihunders, and lightning, and
t,empest---and tha.t he had punished its violation
by terrible plagues-for them to belie1e these
things wottld have been absolutely impossible,
had the whole narrative been a fiction. A
romance would have ejtcited their ridicule, and
the yoke whic;h, on the ground·of the invention,
was to be placed about their necks, would have
been :rejected with the utmost indignation. It is
also morally impossible that th~ books of Moses
could have beeri received in the age imniediat~ly
after his death, if their ~orttents had been fulse;
and highly imp?t>bablethat, thottgh true, they
•
Di itiz y g a.1 glrial 'rom
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
180 :IIIRACLES.
,•,ould have been considered his writings, if they
had been set forth by some other person in his
name, and had not appeared till he was lying
in his grave.
It would be easy to show that the wondrous
acts recorded are traced explicitly to Divine_
operat~on. In illustration of this, the following
passages may be taken : " I am the Lord, your
Holy One, the Creator of Israel, your King."
" Thus saith the Lord, which maketh a way in
the sea and a path in the mighty waters;"
alluding, most probably, to the passage of Israel
through the Red Sea, and, afterwards, to their
crossing the Jordan, both of which events were
unquestionably miraculous.
That one great object kept in view by the
Redeemer in performing miracles was, to furnish
convincing proofs of his Divine mission, is
evident from the uniform tenor of the inspired
narratives. Nicoden1us reasoned justly when he
said, "Rabbi, we know that thou art a teacher
come from God: for no man can dothese miracles
that thou doest, except God be with him," John
iii. 2. The same ·conviction was possessedby
the chief priests and the Pharisees, for they
sai~, after the resurrection of Lazarus, " This
man doeth many miracles: if we let him thus
alone all men will believe on him," John xi.
47, 48. Our Lord himself appeals to his mira-
cles: " I have greater witness than that of John,
for the works which the Father bath given me to
finish, the same works that I do baa, witness of
me, that the Father bath sent me," John v. 86.
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
THE RESURRECTION
OF CHRIS'f. 1S1
It is impossible, therefore, that any statement
could be more plain and decisive. Our Lord
rests his claim to be believed on the wonders
he ,vronght. Again, he s.ays, " If I had not
done a1nong them the works which none other
man did, they had not had sin ; but now they
have no cloak for their sin." 'l'hus, we see the
wonders which Christ wrou.ght were unparal-
leled. He healed the sick, he penetrated the
minds of men by his own infinite power. And
hence, the unbelief of those who witnessed his
mighty deeds appeared in all its aggravated and
naked enormity; "their sin remained." But, in
direct opposition to this, there would have been
a plea for unbelief had pretended miracles been
true. Had it been a fact, instead of a fable, that
.LEsculapiushad cured disease at his oracle, or
that the god of the oracle of Claros had known
the thoughts of men's hearts, then, and then
only, there would have been a cover for their
iniquity.
Were we.to select one miracle as demonst~a-
tive that Jesus was sent by the Father, and of
the acceptance of his work; and, still further,
of the futility of every objection that can be
raised against it; it should be that of the resur-
rection of the Lord Jesus Christ. " See," says
Saurin, " how :111any
extravagant suppositions
must be advanced if the resurrection of our
Saviour be denied. It must be supposed that
guards, ,vho had been particularly cautioned
by their ·officers, sat down to sleep ; and that,
nevertheless, they deserved credit when the
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
body of Jesus was stolen. lt must be supp0,sed
th~t men who had been jmposed on in the
most odious and cruel manner in the world,
hazarded their dearest enjoymepts tor the glory
of ~n impostor. It :r;nust be supposed that
ignorant and illiterate men, who hacl µeither
reputation, fortune, nor eloquence, possessed
the art of fascinating the eyes of all the ohurcb.
It must be supposed either that five hundred
persons were all deprived of their e;ensesat a
ti~e, or that they were all deceived in the
plainest matters of fact; or, that this multitude
of false witnesses h~d found out the seer-etof
:pever contradicting themselves pr pne another,
and of being ~.lways~iform. in their testimo~y.
It must be supposed that the PlO$t expert
courts of judicature could not find Qut a shadow
of a contradiction in a palpable- imposture. It
must be suppos~d that tho apostles, sensible
men in other cases, chPse precis~y- thQse pl~ces
and those times which were most unfavpurabla
to their views. I~ must be supposed that
millions madly suffered imp~nments, tortures,
and crucifixion, to sp:re~ aQ. illusion. It musi
be supposed that ten thousand miracles were
wro-q.ght in favour of fal$ehoods, or ~l these
facts must •be denied. And then, it mus\ be
supposed that the apostles were idiots, that the
~nemies of Christianity w~e idiota, and that all
the priJnitive Christians were idiots."
The apostles of our Lord were invested witll
miraculous powers : " God also bearing them
witness, both with sigqe and wond~rs, and with
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
div~r, miracles and gifts of the Holy Ghost,
~QCor<lingto his own will," Heh. ii. 4. As the
,.ppstles asserted a direct and unequivocal claim
~omiraculous powers, and as these ,ire declared
in the ~ew Testament to have been exerted
by th~m, falsehood, if proved, would destroy
th~.
v~racity of their .writings, and the validity
of all the doctrines and precepts they contained.
l3ut, l~t the case ~e duly weighed, and it will
pe s~en, th~t, to $Upport their pretensions by
~rtinc~ and chicanery, was absollltely iµipos~i-
~le~ A few might he p~ceived, ~ e:pipir~
could. not be ; and great must be the infatua-
tjon of supposing that a few obscure me1',could
l>lind~p.eQyesof the people among whom they
li,ed. In the f~ of the utmost hpstility, in
tbe ~d~t of the greatest perils, in defiance Qf
oruel ~$ecutions, and with the crucifixion of
t.heir Lord before their ~yes, they could not
have 9laimed. µie exercise of Iµµ"aculous ppwer~
if th~y had :µot been actu~Hypos~essed. Had
they. Feseipbled the Romanist$, tQ whom we
llavol'efeffed2 would it h~ve peen possibleto
eseq,ped~~ion ? .
. It i~ wprthy of ~peeial rem~:i-1',that more
tih$11
o~ account i~ given 1JS in s~red history
.of th~ :piess
.e_
~,~~ pf G9(1en~ng into collision
with t,b0$~ who PJe~:Qded to superna.tural
powe,. _'fb'Q.8
~ memo:rable contest took place
between }4osee and the nu~gici~nsof Pharaoh's
eoun. DiffereQtopmions are entertained as to
the means by whichthe latter perfo:rmed their
_
'-ta, &QmeoonteJidj.ng that tb~y were me~e
Di itiz y g a.1 glrial 'rom
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
.10'.I: llU.1\A\iMI:,.).
tricks, and others that evil spirits '\\Tere
in active
operation. On this controverted question we
do not enter; it is sufficient for ·the present
purpose to remark, that the superiority of the
servants of J~hovah was placed beyo~d all dis-
pute. The rod of Aaron swallowed up the
rods of the magicians ; at the plague of flies
and the murrain on the cattle, they were com-
pelled to say, " This is the finger of God ;" and
at length they " could not stand before Moses
because of the boils, for the boils were upon the
magicians and all the Egyptians," Exod. ix. 11.
Another instance of a later date is equally
conclusive. 'fhe gospel was proclaimed at
Ephesus, where the arts which pretended to
lay open the secrets of nature, and to arm the
hand of man with supernatural powers, were
especially apparent. Indeed, in the age of our
Lord and bis apostles, pretended adepts in the
occult sciences were numerous ; they travelled
from country to·country, and were found in great
numbers in Asia, deceiving the credulous mul-
titude, and profiting by their expectations.
They were sometimes Jews, who refe~ed their
skill, and even their forms of proceeding, to
Solomon, who is still regarded in the east as
the head or prince of magicians. In Asia
Minor, Ephesus bad a high reputation for
magical arts. Here, then, " God wrought spe-
cial miracles by the hands of Paul." The
appeal to the wonder-workers of a country
,vhich contained so n1agnificent a temple to
Diana, that it was reckoned an1ong the wonders
8
Or1<;JI
r~ 'rom
INDIANA UNIVERSrTY
MAGICAL
ARTS AT EPHESUS. . l~a
of the world, was singularly striking. .Accus-
tomed as the Ephesians were to produce strange
results by some species of magic, they would
naturally ascribe miracles to a similar agency.
It was necessary, therefore, that the miracles
which were to serve as the credentials of Chris-
tianity, should be especially marked, and placed
beyond the reach· of all their enchantments and
incantations. And it seems an instance not
the less remarkable, because easily overlooked,
of the adaptation of means to an end, that in
Ephesus, in which, of all others, magic was
resorted to, the powers granted to the first
heralds of redeeming mercy sufficed to place
them at an immeasurable distance above the
most consummate magicians.
Another fact is equally entitled to attention.
Certain Jews travelling in that country, and pro-
fessingtocast out the evil spirits which frequently
possessed the bodies of men, took upon them,
as avowed exorcists, to employ the name of the
Lord Jesus, from the success with which it was
used by the apostle Paul. Amongst these were
the seven sons of Sceva, a Jew, who addressed
an evil spirit in the name of Christ, thinking,
perhaps, that their number would give special
force to their adjuration. The spirit~ however,
answered, "Jesus I know, and Paul I know,
but who are ye ?" nor was he content with
refusing to be thus ejected; for, causing the
man in whom he dwelt to put forth super-
natural strength, " he leaped upon the young
men and overcame them, and forced them to
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz y
flee out of the house naked and wounded.
These facts soon became notorious ; fear fell
alike on the Jews and Greeks residing at Ephe-
sus ; the most potent appeal had been made to
those accustomed to use charms and incanta-
tions ; and num hers were led at once to re-
nounce their arts of magic.
Very celebrated were the " Ephesian letters,"
which appear to have been a sort of magical
formula written on paper or parchment, de-
signed to be fixed as amulets on di1Ferentparta
of the body, such as the hand■ and the head.
Erasmus says, that they were certain signs or
marks which rendered their possessor victorious
in everything. Eustatius mentions an opinion
that Crcesus,when on his funeral pile, was very
much benefited by the use of them ; and that
when a Mileaian and an Ephesian were wrest-
ling in the Olympic games, the former could
gain no advantage, as the latter had Ephesian
letters bound round his heel ; but these being
removed he lost his 1uperiority, and was thrown
thirty times. Many of these were, probably,
among the books of which we read, Acts xix.
19; while others were most likely occupied by
descriptions of the prevailing modes of prac-
tising " enchantments." But all were promptly
and cheerfully consigned to the flame.a. Thus
the sincerity of the converts was evident by no
trifling sacrifice, for, when they counted the
price of these books, they '' found it fifty thou-
sand pieces of silver. So mightily grew_
the
word of God and prevailed."
g a.1 glrial 'rom
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
THE POWER OF CHRIST INHERENT. 187
That there was a difference between the
operations of the apostles and the agency of our
Lord, should be clearly perceived. The power
of the Saviour was inherent-that of the apostles
was derived. How manifest is the miraculous
agency of Christ shown in the cure of the
leper I " Lord, if thou wilt," said he to the
Sariour, "thou canst make me clean." Jesus
answered; " I will-be thou clean," and imme-
diately he was made whole. Our Lord made
no appeal to any other power. At the grave of
Lazarus, indeed, he " lifted up his eyes, and
said, Father, I thank thee that thou hast heard
me." But this prayer appean to have been
offered not on his own account• but for the
sake of those who surrounded him, and who
needed such a seal to his mission to establish
their faith. Therefore, he added, "And I know
that thou hearest me always: but because of
the people which stand by I said it, that they
may believe that thou h~t sent me." And
as on other occaaions, he said, " Thy sins are
forgiven thee"-" Arise, take up thy bed and
walk"-"l command thee to come out of her,"
10 now he cried with a loud voic~, " Lazarus,
come forth. And he that waadead came forth,
bound hand and foot with grave-clothes : and
his face waa ~und about with a napkin. Jesus
saith unto them, Loose him, and let him go,"
John xi. 42-«.
Our Lord had previously said, " Therefore,
doth my Father love me, because I lay down
my life,.that I might take it again. Noman
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
taketh it from me, but I lay it down of myself.
I have power to lay it dow·n, and I have power
to take it again. This commandment have I
received of my Father,'.' John x. 17, 18. In like
manner, Jesus said to Martha, " I am the resur-
rection, and the life : he that believeth in me,
though he were dead, yet shall he live: and
whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never
die," John xi. 25, 26. How strikingly con-
trasted. was the language of the apostles I In
the case of the lame man laid at the beautiful
gate of the· temple, Peter said, "Silver and
gold have I none; but such as I have give I
thee: In -the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth,
1ise up and walk." These words, uttered on
the first miracle of the apostles, expressed the
great principle on which they performed every
other, and the spirit in which they wrought all
their wondrous deeds.
The apostle, _likethe prophet, laid down his
authority, and resigned his commission· with
his life; but our Lord Jesus Christ not only
exercised his power amidst his last sufferings
and death, but extended his authority beyond
the grave." " I lay down my life of myself;
no man taketh it from me; I have power to lay
it down, and I have power to take it again."
And though he said, " This c9mmandment
have I received of my Father," he also added,
"I and my Father are one"-" thereby," as the
Jews distinctly perceived, " making himself
equal with God."
Even the diversity of gifts distributed among
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
CESSATION
OPMmACLES. 189
primitive saints, proved the infinite resources
of Him by whom they were granted. Though
bestowed by the Holy Spirit, they were pur-
chased by the blood and supplied by the grace
of the Son of God. Speaking of the outpouring
of the Spirit, and its results, Jesus said, " He
shall receive of mine, and shall show it unto
you." Most emphatically does he lay claim to
all the fulness of the Godhead, when he adds,
" All thmgs that the Father bath are mine :
therefore said I, that he shall take ·or_
mine, and
show it unto you." 'fhus, the gift of tongues,
of miracles, of prophecy, and of interpretation,
proved the infinite power of the Giver, on whose
will the extent and diversity of the operation
alike depended. Some had one power and
some another: but all these wrought that one
and the selfsame Spirit, dividing to every man
severally as he would. 1 Cor. xii. 11. .
The miraculous endowments of early times
were, however, transient. Certain facts appear
to be conclusive on this point. No gift was
more highly estimated, or considered more
necessary for the propagation of the gospel,
.than the gift of tongues. And yet, this was,
unquestionably, of short duration. The only
reference made to it in all the documents of
antiquity, is in the work of Ireneus against the
heretics. He says, " We hear of many in the
church imbued with prophetic gifts, speaking
with all kinds of tongues." But ·though he
must have required the gift as much as any-
for he was called to labour for the dift'mionof
Di itiz y g a.1 glrial 'rom
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
JllRAOl,1;5.
the gospel among the pagan Celts-yet he ex-
pressly declares, " It was not the least part of
his trouble, that he was forced to learn the
language of the oountry, a rude and barbarous
dialect, befoi"ehe could effect any good among
them." Augustine, it iaevident, knew nothing
of supernatural power like that which some
had possessed at a former period. " In the
primitive times," he says, "the Holy Spirit fell
upon believers, and they spoke in tongues
which they had not learned, as the Spirit .gave
them utterance. These were signs suitable for
the time. It was right that the Holy Spirit
should thus be borne witness of in all tongues,
throughout the world. Thai testimony being
given, it passed away." With equal expli-
citness Chrysostom affirms, "Of miraculous
powers not so muoh as a single vestige or trace
remains."
In vain do Romanists cont.end for the con-
tinuance of miracles. Never have they been
able to produce a solitary instance in which the
gift of tongues baa been exercised. And yet,
if any member of their church might have
been expected to be so endowed, it certainly.
would have been Francis Xavier, who bas been
called "the apostle of the Indies." But even
he confesses that, ignorant of the language of
the people to whom he went, he "~as incapable
of doing any service to the Christian cause, and
was little more than a mute statue among
them, till he could acquire some competent
'knowledge of their tongues.
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
CESSATIOH OF l(IRACLES. .1~ .1
Miraole1have passed away ; but we still
possess the glorious gospel of the blessed God.
A powef, however, more than human is needed
to apply it to the heart~ To open the blind
eyes, to unstop the deaf ears, to give spiritual
diseemment to the mind, to break down pre-
judice, to humble pride, to "cast down imagina-
tions and every high thing that exalteth itself
against the knowledge of God," is the work of
thP Holy Spirit. Paul, as he cast around him
" the good seed of the kingdom," might have
given up all in despair, but for interposing
Omnipotence. " I have planted," he said,
" Apollos watered; but God gave the increase.
So then neither is he that planteth anything,
neither he that watereth; but God that giveth
the increase."
There is, however, a great diversity in the
operations of the same Divine Spirit. , Some
are brought at once " from the power of Satan
unto God;" and ever will the time and circum-
stances of their conversion l>eheld in remem-
brance. Others are led by a slow and gradual
process-perhaps scarcely perceptible, and
affording few points of prominent recollection,
out of darkness into " marvellous light." Still
the result is the same. All are brought to
JesuR, and believe on him as having died fo1
their sins, and risen again for their justification;
all by virtue of union with him, under the
sanctifying influence of the Holy Spirit, are be
come new creatures, enjoying the blessings of his
great s~vation, holdi~ communion with him,
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
_.,_ ..........
"'......
..,.
increasing in resemblance to him, and yielding
to him practical obedience and devotion. To
him, then, let us constantly look, to apply the
truth to our owif'fflmsciences and hearts, to
sanctify us wholly, body, soul, and spirit, and
to prosper every effort we make in behalf of
others.
-----·-----------
JIL.LCDVBll' .um 11va21, JtBilffBU, JlOLBOB1' JIILL, LOlrJ>Oll'.
g Or1gl r01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
REMARKABLE DELUSIONS.
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
CONTENTS.
CHAPrER I.
INTRODUCTORY. PAOB
Belief and credulity-General prevalence of error-Delu-
sions originate in the fall-Are fostered bf ignorance--
Incomplete know1edge-Prejudice-Morb1d sensibility
-Interested priestcraft-Hypocrisy-Coveto111neH • 7
CBAPrER II.
DELUSIONS GENERALLY ILLUSTRATIVB OF PREVALENT
POPULAR IGNORANCE.
Superstitions of ancient nations-Of Rabbina--Of Anglo-
Saxons-Of aboriginal descendants-Of 1ailors-Sir T.
Browne-Miscellaneous superstitions-St. Paul'a-day-
St. Swithin's-Bees in mourning-Charms in numben
-The hand of glory- Influence of moon-Marriage
ring-Spots on finger nails-Other portents-Fern seed
-Deadly uigbtsbade-1\landrake-Glaatonbury thorn-
--candlemaa-day in the Highlands • • • • • 15
CHAPTER III.
DELUSIONS ASSOCIATED WITH IMPERFECT DISCOVERY.
Marvels of early ages-Geography-Rabbins-Herodotua
-Strabo-Mela-Arabians-Monk1 of dark agea-lbn
Batbuta-lnfluence of Crusades-El-Dorado-Natural
philosophy-Roger Bacon's brazen bead, etc.-Magic
lantern-Galileo-Invention of printing • • • • 81
CHAPTER IY.
DBLU!IONS INVOLVING HEALTH AND LIFB.
Ancient remedies and prescriptions-Death of king John
-Diseaaes presided over by aaint1- Charms- Aurum
potabile-Bezoan-Dead man's touch-Touching for
king's evil - Gold bullet- Harvey- Jenner-Animal
magnetism • • • • • • • • • 48
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
vi CONTENTS.
CHAPl'ER V. PAOB
DBLUBIONI INVOLVING SUPERNATURAL VISITATIONS.
Old English legends -Vampyres - Ordeals - Ghoata-
Dreams-Soronarn bu.lism-Practical reflections • . • 60
CHAPfBR VI.
DBLUSJON8 CONNECTED WITH THB BELIBP IN WITCBCRAPT.
Witchcraft forbidden by the law of God-Origin of the
ancient magical practices-Familiai: arts used ~opromqte
them-The being supposed to pre1ndeover witchcraft-
Legendary tales - Other absurdities - Laws directed
against witchcraft-Joan of Arc-Burning of witches-
The witches of Warboys-Lady Glammis-Forel-John
Knox - Gellie Duncan and others - " Discoverie of
Witchcraft"-Jame1 1.-Matthew Hopkins-Witches'
bridle-Alice Kyteler-Influence of the imagination • 98
CHAPl'ER VII.
DBLUIIONS CONNECTED WITH THE BBLIEP IN ABTBOLOOY•
Origin of the art-Antiquity-Its practice forbidden in the
early ages of Christianity-Alonzo of Castile-Astrologi-
cal predictions-Failures-Charles x1.-Cbarles 1. and
11. of .England-Dr. Simon Forman-David Ramsay
and John Scott-Lilly-Kepler-Francis Moore • • 112
CHAPTER VIII.
DBLU$1ON" PRQMPT.ED BY MORBID ACQUISITIVJf.NBIII.
Conditions under which wealth roay be enjoyed-Alchemy
-Bubbles: the Mississippi and South Sea schemes-the
Tulip mania-the Bank panic-Railway speculations • 120
CHAPTER IX.
DELUSIONS ABSOCIATED WITH RELIGION.
fleathen oracles-Stones of Druids-Romisb legends-St.
Gregory- Empress Helena - St. Dionysius - Relics-
Blood of St. J anuarius-Other legends-Coat of Tr~vea
-Crusadea-Mohammed-Seva-Rosenfeld-Entbuai-
uts at Munster-French _prophets-Miracles at tomb of
abb~ Paris-Joanna Southcott, etc.-Mormonitea • 152
CHAPTER X.
CoNCLU810N • • • •
g
• • • • lW
Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
REMARKABLE DELUSIONS.
CHAPTER I.
INTRODUCTORY.
Belief and crednlity-General prevalence of error-Delusion■
originatein the fall-Are fostered by ignorance-Incomplete
knowledge- Prejudice - Morbid sensibility - Intereated
priest.craft-Hypocriay-COvetouaneas..
THERE is no moral attainment which has not
its negative as well as its positive side. Man
bas not a nobler prerogative than that which
is embodied in the words-to believe. This is
at once his privilege and his power. It enlarges
his -sphere of contemplation, prompts him to
the highest action, binds each individual to his·
kind, soothes him with the most lasting enjoy-
ments, and constitutes at once the food and
medicine of the soul. But faith is a good only
when reason has den1andedand secured adequate
grounds for its exercise. When these are
present, belief ennobles and invigorates man;.
when they are wanting, it proves a disgrace
and a curse. The ruin of our first parents was,
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
8 REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
that, forsaking their confidence in God, they
cherished faith in the promises of the evil spirit.
'fhey were thus seduced to destruction. The
instrument which, when tuned according to the
rules of truth and rectitude, uttered the sweetest
melodies, became, when these were wanting, a
fractured thing, from which nothing could pro-
ceed but a chaos of wild sounds, full of discord.
Credulity was man's first sin-a sin which,
since that moment, has been continually re-
peated.
Error has thus become an element inseparable
from the existence of human nature. As, in
his first fall, man had been allured by the lying
promise, " Ye shall be as gods"-so he has
since that period been ever -deceived by some
ambitious hope, as brilliant and as false as that
which constituted his earliest temptation. Some
of the errors into which our fellow-creatures
have betm led will be recorded in the following
pages. But those which we can here enumerate
are only specimens, and many of them specimens
of delusion in its mildest form. The greater
developments of credulity are not within our
present scope. But all sin is credulity of the
false; all virtue springs from belief of the true.
Regarding the subject, however, as we now
do, in its secondary manifestations alone, it is
both vast and distressing. The idolatry which
clings to a material representation of the
Divinity; the intolerance which demands homage
to the past, and refuses to acknowledge all
advance of intelligence ; the mad hopes by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
ARE FOSTERED
BY IGNORANCE. 9
which mankind have been disgraced, and the
wars by which they have been desolated; the
fruitless projects of the ignorant and designing;
the intemperance which has proved the bane of
one crowd, and the licentiousness which has
proved the ruin of another; the idle amusements
of the frivolous, and the dark passions of the
malignant; the desire for the undue prolonga-
tion of human life; the baseless dreams of the
covetous, and the desire of the clissatisfied to
pry into the secret and unknown ;-these, and
a thousand kindred errors, all have their origin
in a single principle, the proneness of man to
be flattered by his wishes, and to believe in the
immediate and the sensible, rather than in the
remote, however real.
Many circumstances, superadded to t1ieten-
dencies derived· from the fall, co-operate in
fostering such manifold delusions.
It is almost superfluous to remark, how this
·propensity to be deceived is increased by ignO"".
ranee; for as knowledge is the apprehension
of truth, whilst credulity is the apprehension
only of the semblance of truth, knowledge and
credulity must be ever opposites. We cannot,
therefore, wonder that the .Jeastcivilized ages of
society have ever been most prolific in certain
errors. They have swarmed in the dark hot-
beds of vicious ignorance. Whilst external
knowledge will not correct errors of the first
magnitude, and the only remedy for them is
the knowledge which is of heavenly origin,
lesser mistakes like these lie within the reach
Di itiz by
g
A2
Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
of more ordinary applications, and decrease in
proportion to the intellectual advance of society
around them. The revival of letters, and what
,vasstill more potent, the reformation of religion,
sent a hundred dire forms of infatuation shriek-
ing to their hiding-places.
'' So, whenthe sun in bed,
Curtain'd with cloudy red,
Pillows his chin upon an orient wa\9e,
The tlockinJ shadows pale · .
Troop to th infernal jail,
Each fetter'd ghost slips to his several grave;
And the yellow-skirted rays
Fly after the night-steeda, leaving their moon-loved maze."
MUton'•OdeontA•Nativity.
"When I recall to mind," says the author of
these lines, in one of his imperial prose pro-
ductions, " after so many dark ages wherein
the huge overshadowing train of error had_
almost swept all the stars out of the firmament
of the church, how the bright and blissful
Reformation (by Divine power) struck through
the black and settled night of ignorance and
antichristian tyranny, methinks a sovereign
and reviving joy must needs rush into the
bosom of him that reads or hears."
Montaign_ehas well observed, that "as there
.s an abecedarian ignorance which precedes
knowledge, so there is a doctoral ignorance
which succeeds it-an ignorance which know-
ledge begets at the sa1netime that she despatches
and destroys the first." The progress of human
society amply justifies the truth of this very
profound observation. Indeed, of all the de-
lusions to which n1ankind has been liable, none
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
INCOMPLETE
KNOWLEDGE. 11
have been more remarkable than those which
have followed in the wake of a commencing
period of human enlightenment. To this class
may be referred such superstitions as astrology,
alchemy, and the El-Dorado. To this also we
must refer the various absurdities of the school-
men. The common mind of that day was,
indeed, grossly dark; but the scholars were in
comparative light. Yet, absurd and trifling in
the highest degree were the studies to which
even the best of them were addicted. Speci-
mens of such delusions may be observed in the
following pages. In this connexion lord Bacon
appropriately observes, that, "like as many
substances in nature which are solid do putrify
and corrupt into worms, so it is the property of
goodand sound knowledge to putrify and dis-
solve into a number of subtle, idle, unwholesome,
and, as I may term them, vermiculate questions,
which have indeed a kind of quickness and life
of spirit, but no soundness of matter or goodness
of quality."*
Nor is it unnatural that the progress in
knowledge gained by the more advanced should
be greatly disbelieved and abundantly miscon-
strued by the vulgar mind. Spirit, as well as
matter, has its inertia,or love of. rest, and
tends, like every heavy body, to retain its
original position; whilst whatever would disturb
that condition is readily resolved into the
miraculous, and therefore unlawful. We are
not surprised if the first invention of printing
Di itiz by
g
• " Advance of Leaming."
Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
12 REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
appeared to our forefathers a piece of monstrous
magic, or if that of gunpowder appeared, just
in the sense in which the imputation was not
true, attributable to infernal agency. Men
resist the progress of knowledge, not only
because it sometimes opposes their own pe-
cuniary and other interests, but because they
have a disinclination to admit society to be in
advance of themselves.
It will be easily apparent, moreover, how
many of the prodigious wonders admitted by
human c~edulity have arisen out of that morbid
curiosity and false sensibility which is one of
the most degraded forms of our fallen nature,
especially when, as developed in ill-regulated
minds, it puts on the form of a passion of
incredible strength. Of this diseaseour journals
furnish continual evidence. To-day it is the
inclination to pry into the details of some tale
of domestic sorrow, and to-morrow it is an
insatiable appetite after the details of some
ghastly murder, in each case demanding ·par.:
ticulars with au eagerness which respects no
bounds, and with a voracity which no amount
of circumstantia]s can satisfy. For the moment,
and in repudiation of every principle and of
every fact, the notorious criminals of the day
become deified, and the very attention excited
by their enormous crimes, drives the weak or
the wicked to become their imitators.
Nor can ,ve wonder how, during past ages,
and at the suggestion of an interested priest-
hood, from whose devices and intrigues many
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
HYPOCRISY
AND CCWETOUSNESS. 18
of these delusions sprang, tales of super-
natural dealings assumed a form absolutely
horrific. The advance of daylight has dispersed
such forms into air ; though let it be carefully
observed, spectral terrors are fainter in the
light of modern Protestantism than in that of
any other religious system.
It is painful to add to these instances those
in which absolute hypocrisy has had a com-
manding share. But it is impossible to exempt
some cases related in the following pages from
that dark and dread charge. Every strong will
has a power greater than that of magic itself
over the ignorant and inexperienced. And if
it happen that the deceiver shall, under the
awful names of God and religion, hold out lures
which appeal to the passions or foster the
caprices of the multitude, especially if his
system be a strongly imaginative one, (an essen-
tial ingredient in most similar cases,) his success
will be probably in proportion to the venerable-
ness.of the names he invokes. The very crav-
ing after spiritual food becomes thus a vehicle
tor every unwholesome and baneful poison.
There is, however, no form of error which
has more decidedly outlived the appliances of
knowledge than those which are associated with
an inordinate desire of gain. The limits within
which the good things of this world should be
acquired and possessed, are distinctly marked
out by the great Proprietor himself. Let men
overstep these bounds, and the result is unutter-
able confusion and distraction. It is true that
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
14 REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
the greatest sinners often themselves escape the
snares their own hands have laid - for the
judgments of God bear always more or less
reference to a life to come ; but such over-
strained expectations ever end in an extensive,
and sometimes in a fatal reaction. When man
will erect for himself " a tower, the top whereof
shall reach unto heaven," it will often folio"'.
that he will lie, in the issue, crushed beneath
the weight of his ill-founded superstructure.
But we will detain the reader no longer upon
the threshold. Many of the following narra-
tives will speak for themselves. Our object
has been far higher, than merely to occupy an
idle hour by disinterring from oblivion fallacies
and delusions long since exploded. From the
nature of the subject, matters, apparently trivial
in character, must sometimes be recorded ; but
they will be viewed by the re:flecting mind as
landmarks, by which our onward progress mBy
be marked ; and will serve, we trust, under
God's blessing, to animate the reader to greater
exertion, in di1Fusing the knowledge of that
true light before which the shadows of error
are dispersed and flee away. ·
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz y
SUPERSTITIONSOF ANCIENT NATIONS. 15
CHAPTER II.
DELUSIONSGENERALLY
ILLUSTRATIVE
OFPREVALENT
POPULARIGNORANCE.
Supentitions of ancient nations - Of Rabbins-Of AngJo
..
Saxons- Of aboriginal descendants - Of sailors-Sir T.
· Browne-Miscellaneous sueerstitiona-St. Paul's-day- St.
Swithin's-Bees in moummg-Cbarms in numbers-The
band of glory-Influence of moon-Maniage ring-Spots
on Anger-nails-Other portent-Fern seed-Deadly night-
1bade-Mandrake-Glaatonbury thorn-candlemu-day in
the Highlands.
THE maxim that "ignorance is the mother of
devotion," however in accordance with the
principles and practice of the church of Rome,
is one which will be unhesitatingly rejected by
the true Christian. Pure scriptural religion, be
knows, invites instead of shunning the light,
" That the soul be without knowledge is not
good," is a rule which he applies, not only to
the life to come, but to that which now is.
Never, perhaps,at any former period of our coun-
try's history, were such laudable efforts made
as at the present day, to extend the benefits
of education to all classes of the community.
Amidst much which these have failed to do,
they have also acconiplished much at which we
rejoice. It is only, however, when we take a
a.1 glrial 'rom
.J
g IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
16 REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
backward glance at society, that we see the full
contrast between the results of knowledge and
ignorance, and can recognise aright the obliga-
tions we owe to tl1eformer. The facts recorded
in the present chapter will tend, we hope,
practically to impress this truth upon our
readers.
'fhe pagan religion of the Greeks and
Romans was replete with omens. Days, lucky
or unlucky ; imaginary prognostics, afforded by
the entrails of sacrificed victims; the act of
sneezing at certain periods of the day, or in
certain directions from the body; the salutary
virtues of spittle in averting evil influences ; the
flight of birds ; the rolling of thunder ; the
ravings of maniacs ;-the~e, and many similar
occurrences, interpreted by priests.who did not
fail to employ them for their own purposes,
occur perpetually in the pages of ancient
authors. 'l'hey thus transmitted a legacy of
credulity to a posterity sufficiently eager to turn
it to account. Many of these superstitions
were derived from Jewish sources, especially
from the Rabbins, a remarkably fantastical and
imaginative tribe. The Druidical religion of
ancient Britain and the contiguous parts of the
continent was not less credulous. All readers
of ancient British history are familiar with the
name of the misletoe,
(viscumalbum,) a parasi-·
tical plant, which took root within the bark
of the oak, though now very rarely found
on that tree, and bears flowers and fruit.
It is believed to have derived its sanctity, not
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
l
SUPERSTITIONS OF ANGLO-SAXONS. 17
only from the peculiar position in which it
was found, namely, on the wood of the tree
then commonly selected for their worship, but
also from the circumstance that its leaves and
berries grow in clusters of three, deemed by the
Druids a mystical number. At the close of
the year, the priests went in solemn procession
to gather this plant, and peculiar ceremonies
attended its removal from the oak. It was
required to be cut with a golden knife by a
priest habited in pure white, and it might
be gathered only when the moon was six days
old, whilst the detached branch was received
with peculiar solemnity into a napkin held
beneath the tree. Subsequently, it was identi-
fied by many with the forbidden tree of Eden,
and was supposed to be a specific for peculiar
disorders. The shamrock, or trefoil, was re-
garded by the Irish Druids as possessed of a
similar sanctity.
The Saxon conquerors of these islands
brought over with them, as ele1nents of their
ferocious religion, many similar superstitions.
The descendants of the more ancient inhabit-
ants of these islands, namely, the dwellers in
the Highlands, in Wales, in Cornwall, and in
the Isle of Man, still preserve sitnilar delusions
in their fullest force. Many of these notions
. were retained, scarcely modified, by the Anglo-
Saxons when Christianized, (to use that word
in a very popular sense,) and the imperfect
knowledge of religion possessed by our fore-
fathers is shown in nothing more strongly than
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
in the laws enacted to repress tbe spells and
incantations prevalent in those days of im-
perfect enlightenment. So far, indeed, was
Popery from obliterating these prepossessions
in favour of the miraculous, that it even
adopted into its own ritual many of the most
gloomy notions of pre-existent heathenism.
Errors of every form and degree abounded.
The falling of the salt ; the bleeding of the
nose; the crossing of one's path by a jay, a
squirrel, or a hare ; the killing of animals de-
signed for food, at any other season than that
of the full moon ; the putting of the foot into
the wrong shoe ; stammering in the beginning
CJfa speech ; ·washing hands in the water used
by another ; the breaking of a mirror ; the
croaking of ravens or of crows ; the appearance
of magpies, especially-if there were a pair; the
ticking of the scarabmus, called the death-watch;
the withering of the bay-tree ;-were in those
days omens of peculiarly sinister import. In
days a little later, the notion which men had
of education was that it was something akin to
a Divine inspiration, and it was a practice with
many parents, and those probably of the better
sort, to interrogate their sleeping children on
St. George's-day as to whether they would
study their book or not. If the half-sleeping
child uttered something affirmative, he was
devoted, when the parents could afford it, to
some learned profession; if the reply was un-
favourable, a handicraft occupation was selected.
To beat a child with an alder stick was ominous,
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
SUPERSTITIONSOF SAILORS. 19
as it was the infallible way of stopping his
growth. Prejudices of this order are indeed
scarcely extinct. Who of our ancestors won-
dered at the misfortunes of Charles 1.,
when he
remembered the tott;ering of the crown on his
head on the day of hi.1coronation, or his rent
flag on the White To,ver of London? • or could
any one be surprised at Cromwell's death who
was told that, just at that time, a great whale
had come up to Greenwich ? The misfortunes
of James n. were intimately connected, in the
opinion of many, with the rending of the
cloth of gold on the day of his inauguration ;
and that no good could come from the number
two was incontestably proved by the misfor-
tunes of William 11.,
Henry 11.,
Richard n.,
Charles n., and James n.
The minds of sailors-men peculiarly re-
moved from the ordinary advantages of educa-
tion-are still extremely full of such supersti-
tions. They prefer to set sail on Sunday-as
if that voyage must prove fortunate which
begins by the violation of God's authority ; if
wind be wanting, whistling is the approved
mode of praying for it, and they will seriously
check an unwary passenger if he shall happen
to whistle when the wind is high; they regard
the presence of children on board ship as
peculiarly favourable to the success of their
voyage ; and the hornedness of the ~oon is an
• Or Nottingbam ; ClarendondeBCribea
the setting up of
the king's standard on the castle bill in that town as accom-
panied bJ a aunilar portent.
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
20 REMARK.ABLE
DELUSIONS
•
.infallible sign of the approaching weather.
How many vessels, even now, have a horse-shoe
nailed to some part of the rudder, as a token of
good luck!
Sir Thomas Browne, in his book entitled
" Enquiries into Common and Vulgar Errors,"
(1686,) presents a curious picture of the credu-
lity which anciently swayed the minds of the
people. He appears to have taken for his
model the somewhat similar work of Paue-
phatus, a Greek classical author, who, in his
day, endeavoured to disprove or to account for
some of the incredible things which, at a still
older period, possessed men's n1inds. A glance
at Browne's pages is extremely interesting.
'fhat crystal is nothing but congealed ice ; that
a diamond is made soft or broken by the blood
of a goat ; that an elephant has no joints; that
a kingfisher, hung up by the bill, shows the
direction of the wind ; that men weigh heavier
when dead than alive; that the sun dances on
Easter-day, etc., etc.-these were then marvels.
And that a grave physician should seriously, in
the seventeenth century, let himself down before
such errors, to treat many of them with respect,
and ,vorthy of an elaborate refutation, is to us,
in the nineteenth century, the greatest marvel
of all!
Among miscellaneous ·charms, much believed
in by our forefathers, the following n1ay be
cited. Prirslain, laid in the bed, was a remedy
against visions. A nail from a coffin, placed
on the threshold of a chamber, drove away
g
a.1gln;~ 'rem
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
ST. PAUL'S-DAY. 21
phantoms. A handful of asmart placed under
a saddle caused the horse to carry his rider
easily. Docks boi_ledwith meat made the
toughest· viand tender. Moonwort trodden on
by a horse loosened his shoes fron1 his feet.
Rue was a preventive of witchcraft. A bay-
leaf was a preservative against thunder. Such
specimens might be indefinitely extended.
The 25th of January, St. Paul's-day, was
regarded by our forefathers as a crisis of great
importance, because it was believed that the
. weather of the whole year might be predicted
from the meteorology of that day. "If the sun
shine, it betokens a good year ; if it rain or
snow, an indifferent one ; if misty, it predicts
great dearth ; if it thunder, great winds, and
death of people that year." This prognostic
,vas afterwards reduced to rhyme :-
" If St. Paul's-day be fair and clear
It does betide a happy year ;
But if it chance to snow or rain,
Then will be dear all kinds of grain.
If clouds or mists do dark the sky,
Great store of birds and beasts shall die;
And if the winds do fly aloft,
Then wars shall vex the kingdom oft."
Modern opinions have ignored the portents
of St. Paul's-day;" but those of St. Swithin
(July 15) still survive. The legend which
pertains to this day is curious. Swithin was
a Danish bishop of Winchester, who, at his
death, expressed his desire to be buried in
the- churchyard instead of the chancel of his
minster. The monks of Winchester, however,
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
22 REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
zealous for the glories of so bright a saint, and
desirous of securing for his remains a better
place of sepulture, determined that his body
should be removed into the choir of the cathe-
dral. But on the day fixed (July 15) for its
removal, and during the forty days succeeding,
it rained so violently as to impress them with
the conviction that what they intended was a
forbidden act, and they contented themselves
with erecting a chapel over his grave. Poor
Robin's Almanac (1697) has the following dog-
grel, in which, however, a n1oralmay be found:-
" In this month is St. Swithin's-day,
On which, if that it rains,.they aay,
Full forty days after it will,
Or more or less, some rain distil.
This Swithin was a saint, I trow,
And Winchester's bishop also;
Who in bis time rudmany a feat,
As Popish legends do repeat.
A woman having broke her eggs,
By stumbling at another's legs,
For which she made e.woful cey,
St. Swithin chanced for to come by,
Who made them all as sound, or more,
Than ever that they were before ;
· But whether this were so or no,
'Tis more than you or I do know.
Better it is to rise betime,
And to make hay while sun doth shine,
Than to believe m tales or lies
W'1ich idle monks and friars devise."*
Most of our readers will remember sufficient
instances of failure to prove that this prognostic
of St. Swithin's-day is by no means infallible ;
and it is a somewhat remarkable circumstance
that though, in 1752,the new style was adopted
in place of the old, (to cause the nominal to
• Brande's Popular Anti:iuities, vol. i. pp. 340, 341.
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
agree with astronomical time,) and though
eleven days were thereby sunk in the calendar,
it made no difference to St. Swithin's credit.
The superstition appears to have no other foun-
dation than this, that at certain parts of the
year the weather, whatever it may be, extends
over somewhat long periods, and that at the
time of St. Swithin it is more than usually
uniform. A similar notion seems to have for-
merly prevailed relative to St. Vitus's-day,
(June 15.) Candlemas-day also (Feb. 2) once
enjoyed the same prerogative.
In some parts of England, a singular super-
stition formerly prevailed, that when any one
of a family died, the members of the household
n1ust inform the bees, if there were any, of the
event, or else that some calamity would after-
wards befall those poorinsects themselves. This
opinion is still current in some neighbourhoods,
and is marked by hanging, in such a case, black
crape upon the hive, or suspending the mourn-
ing somewhere in its vicinity. It is related in
a London newspaper, that at a funeral of a rich
old farmer, which took place in Devon, the
fol1owingcircumstance occurred: "Just as the
corpse was placed in the hearse, and the horse-
men to a large number were drawn up in order
for the procession of the funeral, a person
called out, ' Turn the bees ;' when a servant,
who had no knowledge of such a custom,
instead of turning the hives about, lifted
them up, and then laid them down on their
sid~s. The bees, thus hastily invaded, instantly
Di itiz by
g
...
Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
24 REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
attacked and fastened on the horses and their
riders. It was in vain they galloped off; the
bees as precipitately followed, and left their
stings as marks of their indignation. A general
confusion took place, attended with loss of hats,
wigs, etc., and the corpse during the conflict
was left unattended, nol' was it till after a con-
siderable time that the funeral attendants could
be rallied, in order to proceed to the interment
of their deceased friend."*
·It was deemed essential by our ancestors,
that certain remedies should be applied three,
seven, or nine times. The importance of these
numhers is also shown in other connexions. A
royal salute ·with cannon is to this day com-
posed of three times seven, or twenty-one guns.
A superstition was prevalent, that a company
of thirteen was unlucky, and that one of the
nun1ber was certain to die within the year. The
fact might be so, as the probabilities of life are
in something approaching to that proportion.
The.seventh son of a seventh son (an occur-
rence, the infrequency of which would neces-
sarily place it beyond the opportunity of frequent
observation) was supposed to be born a genius,
and some even averred that he had the power
of healing scrofulous disorders, like former
monarchs, by his touch. At all events, it was
cleem~d essential that he must be brought up
to the study of medicine. These notions were
doubtless derived from the frequent use c,f the
perfect number sevenamong the Jews.
• Brande, vol. ii. p. 301.
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
INFLUENCEOF .MOON.
"The hand of glory," as it was called, though
a phrase almost unintelligible to mode!n ears,
was regarded by our forefathers as endowed
with strangely mystic virtues, and was fre-
quently employed by thieves and housebreakers
· in their depredations, since it was supposed to
confer the power of entering houses without
obstruction from any who might encounter it.
The hand of a malefactor exposed on the high-
way was to be obtained. The effect of this,
when duly prepared, was, that it took away (so
it ,vas believed) all power of motion from the
person before whom it was held.
The singular influences ascribed by our
forefathers to the moon, are evidently remnants
of the more ancient pagan worship of that
luminary. Pigs were to be killed and sheep
shorn at the period of its fulness, and woodwas
to be cut at the same fortunate conjuncture.
·Peas and beans were to be sown, according to
Tusser's husbandry, in the moon"s wane.
Among the caricatures to be found in an antique
book, a superstitious man is thus satirized:
"He will not commit his seed to the earth when
the soil, but when the moon requires it ; he
will have his hair cut when the moon is either
in Leo, that his locks may stare like the lion's
shag ; or in Aries, that they may curl like a
ram's horn. Whatever he would have to ~row,
he sets about when she is in her increase ; but
for what he would have made less, he chooses
her wane."
Di itiz by
Sir T. Browne, to whose book against yulgar
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
26 REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
errors we have already referred, allows the
l~gitimacy of vaticinations from spots on the
finger nails. Burton, in his Anatomy, says
that a black spot is a bad omen. It is certainly
a sign either of previous injury or advancing
disease.
A common superstition is still current, that
in marriage the ring is put upon the fourth
finger of the left hand because an artery goes
from that finger to the heart. This is a perfect
delusion, though once seriously believed by very
grave persons. The popish superstitions once
connected with the wedding-ring are well known
to have led the early Puritans to desire that its
use might be abolished.
Spirits were supposed to be detected by the
blue burning of candles; whilst a knot of tallow
near the flame was called a winding-sheet, and
regarded as a presage of approaching death to
one of the family. The howling of dogs (per-
haps derived from some afflicted animal being
found grieving over the dead body of his
master) was regarded as a similar prognostic.
If crickets forsook a house they had been long
accustomed to inhabit, it boded deep calamity.
'fo kill a spider, and not to kill a snake, were
deemed equally disastrous. A very ancient
superstition was, that the dead body of a mur-
dered man would gush out blood if the mur-
derer approached it. It is not very easy to
conjecture from what this evidently false super-
stition arose. Its original invention was de-
signed, perhaps, to terrify the guilty man into
8
Or1<;JI
r~ 'rom
INDIANA UNIVERSrTY
FERN-SEED. 27
confession. It is accounted for, however, in
another way, by a well-known work, called
" The Ath~nian Oracle.,, " Blood is congealed
in the body for two or three days, and then
becomes liquid again, in its tendency to cor-
ruption. The air being heated by many persons
coming about tha body is the same thing as
motion to it ; it is observed that dead bodies
will bleed in a concourse of people, when mur-
derers are absent as well as present."
It is ,vell known to all who have the slightest
acquaintance with the elements of botany, that
there is a certain class of vegetables which
derive the name of " Cryptogamia,"from the
seeds being produced in a manner which is not
readily apparent. The fern, for instance, bears
its seeds on the underside of its leaf, where
they are beautifully arranged, and may at the
proper season be distinctly observed. It was
once supposed that the seed of the fern was
actually invisible, and that those who possessed
it (though according to this supposition they
could by no means become certified of its pre-
sence) were, by its means, gifted with the
faculty of invisibility. But in order that this
virtue might be imparted, it was necessary to
gather it on midsummer eve.
The deadly nightshade (Atropa belladonna)
was supposed to derive its poisonous qualities
from its growing, as it often did, among the
dark deposits of death and corruption. These
invested it with an imaginary horror, and
great magical virtues were attributed to it.
Di itiz by
8
Or1<;JI
r~ 'rom
INDIANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
28 REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
But the mandrake (Atropa mandragora)was
associated with even more deadly and porten-
tous attributes. It was imagined to grow under
the gallows, and to be nourished by the distil-
lations of executed malefactors, and it was
believed that when it was eradicated it uttered
a great shriek, as if possessing sensibility. To
guard against the pestilential effects of gather-
ing it, some authors recommended that the
plants should be tied to a dog, who, being driven
away, would pull up the plant with him. We
can scarcely wonder at the feelings with which,
in the dark ages, this plant was regarded, when
we are a,vare of its botanical peculiarities. Its
root, severed in some directions, bears a consi-
derable affinity to the human form. Its smell
is extremely fretid, and its properties venomous
to a high degree. It is, however, a native only
of the south of Europe. But its peculiarities
became identified in England with the ropt of
the briony, which was, by a juggle, often cut
so as to imitate its form.
·The Glastonbury thorn was also, in the olden
time, an object of great notoriety. It was
reported to blossom only on Christmas day, and
some said that it budded in the morning,
flowered at noon, and decayed on the night of
the 25th of December. Its virtues were
ascribed to Joseph of Arimathrea, said to be
the founder of the first Christian church in
England, (,vhich a foolish tradition placed at
Glastonbury,) and was believed to have ~;rung
from the staff which he stuck into the ground
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
GLASTONBURY
THORN. 29
whilst laying the foundation. 'l\1hen the style
was altered, this thorn was believed to have so
far protested against the innovation on the
calendar, as to blossom on the 5th of January
instead of the 25th of December-its corre-
sponding, though not nominal anniversary.
The miraculous character of this tree survived
the Reformation, and king James 1. and queen
Anne are said to have visited it, and to have
taken away cuttings from the spot. The only
foundation for the legend is, that at Glaston-
bury and its vicinity grow certain thorns,
which, like the Helleborusniger,or Christmas
rose, blossom at a very early period of the
year.
Such superstitions as those we have narrated
above are not as yet, as we have remarked,
altogether obsolete. We believe that even yet,
in London, a shop exists in which certain beads
are sold, made from the root of the white
briony, and once supposed to possess a singular
virtue when bung around the necks of children
cutting their teeth. But such delusions are
fast disappearing before the increasing light of
intelligence; and though persons are still to
be found who transmit to ignorant men and
simple women the traces of such old-fashioned
superstitions, they are destined soon to share
the fate of the broomstick of the witcl1, and the
terrors of St. George and the dragon. It is the
happiness of Britain to possess, above many
nations, an enlightened community. It will be
a happier day still, when her population shall
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz y
80 REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
learn that charms, omens, and prodigies are
not the most deadly forms of superstition; that
its ,vorst form is exhibited when men set up, as
.they are ever prone to do, the outward and
sensible as protections, instead of the inward
and spiritual; and when they believe that any
man is safe without the guardianship of an
almighty Providence, or happy without a con-
sciousness of being reconciled to God through
faith in his Son, and doing the things which
please him. And then will be the period of
Britain's glory, when her sons shall be taught
to seek, in ·a firm reliance on truth and a Iiving
practice of vital piety, the only education which
can effectually disperse the darkness of error,
ennoble the mind, and prepare man for a life
which never dies.
g a.1 glrial 'rom
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
MARVELS OF EARLY AGES. 81
-
CHAPTER III.
DELUSIONS ASSOCIATED WITH IMPERFECT DISCOVERY
Jlarvela of early ~pby-Rabbin-Herodot111-
Strabo-Mela-Araoian-Monka of dark age-lbn Bathuta
-InGuence of Crusadea-El-Dorado-Natural philosophy-
Roger Bacon's brazen head.,etc.-Magic lantern-Galileo
-Invention of printing.
THEinfancy of society is always conspicuously
distinguished by a love for the marvellou$.
Wonder is but the voracious appetite .of a
starving mind, and, like other resistless cravings,
will submit to be fed with unwholesome food
rather than not to be fed at all. In estimating
the figments and hallucinations of past ages, we
must remember that the sympathies of mind
are rarely retrospective. It is more easy to
conceive of increased knowledge in the future
than of defective knowledge in the past. How-
ever reluctant we may be to admit of the pro-
gress which shall render our present attainments
childish and obsolete, it is still more difficult to
make due allowance for the errors of those who
fell far below the point which, with a natural
self-flattery, we suppose ourselves to have
reached. But the history of mankind is the
narrative of growth attained by very slow and
Or1(j riitl 'rem
INDIANA UNIVERSITY
Di itiz y
82 REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
often very irregular advances. There have
been certain periods when (to use a well-
known metaphor) the day bas broken upon
the mountain tops of more intelligent minds,
whilst the valleys below have been shrouded in
darkness; and there have been other periods
when, to use Milton's fine image, " the over-
shadowing train of error has swept the lights
out of the firmament" again. The Aristotelian
philosophy was, in the days of Alexander the
Great, like the invention of stage-coaches, an
immense improvement on the clumsy wagons
which preceded them; the same philosophy, in
the fifteenth century, was like the preference of
such stage--coaches to the greater facilities of a
modern railway. But few truths, if any, are intui-
tively apprehended. The mind gropes its way
in darkness long before it understands the true
value of light. The march of intellect is, to a
considerable degree, the march of error :-
" We think our fatherswrong, so wise we grow ;-
Our wiser sons, no dout,t,will think u ao."
The progress of geographical discovery will
illustrate these observations. It is our happi-
ness to live at a time when this department of
knowledge has been largely and successfully
prosecuted. The travellers of England will
yield the palm to no other country for patient
and persevering enterpriie. They have pene-
trated almost all lands, toiled through the burn-
ing deserts of the Sahara, and shivered under
the ice-bound regions of the northern pole.
Nor have their efforts been purely of a useless
g a.1 glrial 'rom
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
THE RABBINS. 88
character. They have enlarged our sphere of
knowledge, multiplied our social comforts, and
opened new paths for commerce. In other
instances, they have accomplished ·still higher
results by proving the pioneers for the m1s•
sionary, and paving the way for the introduc-
tion to benighted countries of the glorious
gospel. It will now be our office to point out
to our readers the path of en·or through which -
this, and other departments of science, have had
to struggle.
When the ancients stepped out of the circle
of their positive knowledge, they involved
themselves in a maze of the most palpable
errors. The fables of the Cimmerians, who
dwelt at the ends of the ocean clouded in
perpetual night; the story of .lEo]us and his
bag of winds ; the island of Circe, peopled by
enchanters-were delusions which, propagated
by the idle and believed by the credulous,
would very naturally take root in barren and
uncultivated soils. 'fhe notions of the later
Jews respecting the productions of the earth
1nay be learned from many pa&c;agesof .the
Taln1ud. Enorn1ous birds, capable of seizing
elephants and flying away with them, were
supposed to abound in certain remote districts.
One of these bird8 is represented in Rabbinical
story as standing up to the lower joint of the
ieg in water, and thus to have been seen by
certain mariners. Imagining that the water
could not have been very deep, from the small
portion of the bird's body immersed in the
B
Di itiz y g a.1 glrial 'rom
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
84 llE.MARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
water, these mariners were about to bathe in
the spot, when a supernatural voice addressed
them, " Step not in there ; for seven years ago,
a carpenter dropped his axe in that ,vater, and
it has not yet reached the bottom."•
Among other wonders were those related by
Herodotus, to whom we are indebted for so
much veritable ancient history. He speaks of
ants like foxes, w}lo,burrowing in the golden
sands of India, first turned up its treasures to
the view. Plutarch speaks also of little snakes,
which crept into men's bodies-only an ex-
aggeration of the tortures still inflicted in the
marshy lands of Africa by the guinea-wor1n.
The ancient geographer, Strabo, represented
Britain as a land not worth the conquest, and
Ireland as a region of eternal snows, peopled
by cannibals. Even so late as the tin1e of
Claudius, Mela, a Roman geographer, supposed
that all the southern parts of the world were in•
accessible, because of the extreme heat of the
sun and the intervention of the torrid zone.
He placed in Africa the region of the Antipodes
of Antichthones, where he supposed the Nile to
rise, and to flow under the ocean till it reached
the upper hemisphere. Travellers of that day
spoke of trees which bore flowers like wate1·-
pots; whilst the most energetic efforts were
made to discover the site of the ancient
Paradise, the western nations assigning its
position eastward, and the eastern nations
westward-both agreeing in believing that it
g
• D'lsraeli'a Curiosities of Literature.
Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
THE ARABIANS. . 35
was equally distant from themsel,,es. Had
half the amount of spiritual exertion been
directed to the real paradise, it would not have
so constantly eluded their search.
When, after the destruction of the Roman
empire by the Goths and Vandals, Arabia
became the most learned nation of its day, and
took under its protection the discarded literature
of Europe, the geographical notion of the period
was, that the earth, like an egg, lay floating
in an ocean of unmitigable gloom. India was
then spoken of as abounding in gold and silver
islands. llention was made of a fourth
continent, not discoverable because of the
power of the sun. Ethiopia ,vas represented as
remarkable as the land of Prester John, whose
territory was divided into islands by the rivers
running from Paradise .. The palace of this
redoubtable king, men were told, was built of
precious stones, and lighted by carbuncles.
At the same time, Gog and Magog ,vere
exhaustless topics of interest. A traveller was
sent out by one of the caliphs, with strict
injunctions not to return till he had seen Gog's
dwelling. Under such a stimulus, can we
,vonder that he speedily discovered it? He
found it-so he said-built of iron, cemented
with brass, and its gates were fifty cubits high.
In subsequent maps, this castle was made to
tower at the extremity of Asia.
It would scarcely be imagined, except by
those who have witnessed the avidity with
which minds of a vulu-ar order seek ·for
V
Di itiz y g a.1 glrial 'rom
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
36 REMARKABLEDELUSIONS.
prodigies, how eagerly the monks of the dark
ages, secluded and uninformed as many of them
were, sought for similar inventions, with which
to beguile the tedium of their weary hours.
The most absurd fables passed under the name
of "the wonders of the world.'' It is upon
record that, in those days, eight hides of land
were given for a book filled with such tales of
geographical marvels. Stories of red hens
found near the Red Sea, which consumed any
one who touched them; of human beings eight
feet broad, who wore their heads on their
breasts; of women with boars' tusks and camels'
feet; and of other beings, with mouths like the
sails of a windmill. lbn Bathuta asserted that
he had seen Adan1's footstep left on the top of a
mountain in Serendib; also that he had beheld
rubies as large as hens' eggs ; and, more
wonderful than all, that, in some far distant
part,• leeches sprang from trees upon unwary
travellers, so that the natives were compelled
to carry lemons, that by squeezing their juice
on them, they might be detached from their
hold. Tales like these-
" Such as take lodgings in a head
That's to be let unfurni1b'd "-
were the delight of the ignorant during the dark
ages, and were not en~ely abjured even by
• Oysters on trees are less fabulous. We are told of certain
districts liable to inundations which cover the lower boug-b11
of trees to which oy8ters become attached. When the water
1ubaidea, these poor victims of delusion are hung in air. The
leeches of Ceylon, so poisonous in their bite, may in part
have been the foundation of the superstition mention~d in the
text.
8
Or1<;JI
r~ 'rom
INDIANA UNIVERSrTY
EL-DORADO. 37
the better informed. The Crusades, by bringing
men into real acquaintance with distant lands,
gave the first shock to the lethargy of monkish
superstition, and contributed much to the
improvement of geographical science. The
applicatio11 of the magnetic principle to the
formation of the mariner's compass, and the
discovery of America by Columbus, rapidly
reduced the remaining ignorance. But all
marvels had not yet grown obsolete. One of
the great difficulties which Columbus had to
overcome in the prosecution of his maritime
discoveries, was the notion entertained by
Spanish divines as to the shape of the sea. He
was gravely assured, that his vessels would, if
they proceeded in a certain direction, sail down
a deelivity, which they would not be able again
to ascend.
What ,vonders were not related of the
El-Dorado, or the Golden Country, in the
sixteenth century l This region, supposed to lie
somewhere between the Orinoco and Amazon
rivers, was regarded as prolific in gold and
jewels, which were as plentiful as the pebbles
on our roads. It was true that the treasures
themselves eluded the search of travellers, but
they were always imagined to be a little in
advance of the ·regions then penetrated. Sti-
mulated by these tales of the exuberant riches
of El-Dorado, or using them as a pretext for
covering over his ·own purposes, sir vY
alter
I!aleigh proposed the conquest of Guiana, and
the discovery of this country, in which the
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz y
88 REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
temples were roofed over with gold, and where
the natives, whilst celebrating their feast.a,were
accustomed, it was said, to roll their bodies, pre-
viously rubbed with a precious balsam, in gold
dust. The expedition failed, of course, in its
immediate object, but it led to some geographi-
cal discoveries of much importance. Even so
late as the publication of sir T. More's
i, Utopia," that book was taken for a genuine
history, and some readers thought it highly
important that missionaries should be sent to
teach so intelligent a nation the truths of
Christianity.
The discoveries made in natural philosophy
by Roger Bacon, who died in the year 1292,
were greatly in advance of his age. As an
astrologer and alchemist, for to both these
sciences he was addicted, he might appropri-
ately find a, place in a later chapter ; but his
· reputed invention of gunpowder, (though the
inhabitants of China and of India lay a claim
to it,) his conception of the telescope, (though
other hands perfected the machine,) and his
treatises on optics and experimental philosophy,
justly entitle him to be regarded as the greatest
philosopher of his age. Such studies were
regarded as extremely inconsistent, however,
with the duties of a Cordelier friar, and popular
indignation accused hhn of extensive dealings
with the devil.
The following is (as nearly as we can trans-
late it) the mysterious sentence in which
Bacon's knowledge of gunpowder is supposed to
g a.1 glrial 'rom
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
ROGERBACON. 89
lie concealed. It occurs in his " Epistle on the
secret operations of art and nature, and on the
nullity of magic " :-
" But yet. of saltpetre LURU. VOPO. VIR. CAN.
UTRIET. of sulphur ; and so you may make
thunder and lightning if you know the trick."
This information greatly resembles the vague
directions which distinguished alchemy in
general. But if we suppose the hieroglyphical
words to denote charcoal, and the" trick" the
granulation of the mass, we shall certainly
arrive .atgunpowder. In Bacon's Opus Majus
we have the following passage, supposed to be
designed to. describe this disastrous and death-
dealing invention :-
Di itiz by
,, Some things disturb the ear so much that
if they were made to happen suddenly by night
and with sufficient skill, no city or army could
bear them. No noise of thunder could compare
with them. Some things strike terror on the
sight, so that the flashes of the clouds are
beyond comparison less disturbing. And an
instance we take from a childish amusement
which exists in many parts of the world, to
wit, that with an instrwnent as large as the
human thumb, by the violence of the salt called
saltpetre, so horrible a noise is made by the
rupture of so slight a thing as a bit of parch-
ment, that it is thought to exceed loud thunder,
and the flash is stronger than the brightest light-
ning."• This certainly has some appearan~e of
being an anticipation of the effectsof gunpowder.
• "Briti1h Worthies," vol. i. p. n.
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
40 REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
Roger Bacon was· reported also to have
formed, by the assistance of friar Bungay, a
brazen head, which is not improbable. That
some attempt may have been made to produce,
by automatic agency, a few articulate sounds,
is also very credible ; nor is it unlikely that
Bacon's servant, terrified at such a machine,
may have broken the head in pieces. Manyof
the ieats ascribed to Roger Bacon are traceable,
we may observe, to the use of the magic lan-
tern, which is stated to have been one of his
inventions.
. The prejudiced delusions with which the
adv.ances of science have, in many ages, been
called to contend, are in no case more strikingly
illustrated than by the history of Galileo, who
lived in the sixteenth century. His discoveries
were of the highest philosophical importance,
and led hipi to the conclusion that the.Ptolen1aic
system of astronomy, though upheld by Aris-
totle, the fathers, and misconcei,,ed quotations
fron1the Bible, was inadequate to account for
the phenomena of the universe. He was the
:first who constructed a perfect telescope ; he
determined the nature of the moon's surface,
discovere4 Jupiter's satellites, and imperfectly
perceived the ring by which Saturn is sur-
rounded. But bis disclosures awakened the
enmity of the Jesuits, and he was summoned
before the Inquisition, who declared his pro-
positions to be erroneous and dangerous. He
was compelled, therefore, to sign a recantation,
of which the following is a portion :-
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
INVENTION OF PRINTING. 41
" With a sincere he.art and unfeigned faith,
I abjure, curse, and detest the said errors and
heresies; and I swear that I will never, in
future, say or repeat anyihing, verbally or in
writing, which may give rise to a similar sus-
picion against me."
As Galileo rose from his knees, however,
after this abjuration of bis doctrine concerning
the motion of the earth, etc., he muttered to a
friend who stood near him, " It does move,
though, notwithstanding !" A more heroic
maintenance of truth would have better become
so distinguished a philosopher.
The invention of printing offended, in a
similar way, the prejudices of the fifteenth cen-
tury. Fust was the assistant of Guttenberg,
the first projector of the art of printing with
movable types. Like many other inventors,
Guttenburg left the harvest of his invention to
be reaped by subsequent hands. It is said that,
in consequence ofFust's employment of this art
in cornbination with coloured ink, the vulgar
concluded that he had signed a compact with
the evil spirit in blood. The delusion took a
strong hold on the popular imagination, and is
frequently reproduced even at this day. Other
accounts, however, state, that Fust and Faust,
to whom a somewhat similar notoriety is
attached, were distinct personages, and that the
enormities ascribed to the latter originated in
his having greatly outstripped his age in pur-
suit of the physical sciences.
Whatever be the degree of truth actually
B2
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
42 RDL\RKABLE DELUSIONS.
involved in some of these stories, it is evident
that he who is, at any period of the world,
greatly in advance of his age, is liable to no
small amount of misconception and misrepre-
sentation. Perhaps, however, such men as
those we have enumerated, rendered themselves
liable to the imputations circulated against
them, by veiling their real knowledge under
sernhlances which they must have known to be
foItacious. If so, the fact may supply a lesson
of some force to those who, having been
intrusted with truths of value, seek, by a
paltry conformity with the maxims of the
ignorant or the vicious, to render them palat-
able to others. Let the Christian especially
beware how he tricks his heaven-born prin-
ciples in the meretricious guise which is "of
the earth, earthy." Whilst no cringing to the
world can render spiritual religion acceptable to
those who know not its value, such an accom-
modation will infallibly awaken suspicion,
and land its professors in deserved contempt.
Only one defence will avail the Christian :
"the armour of righteousness on the right
hand and on the left.,,
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
ANCIENT REMEDIES AND PRESCRIPTIONS. 43
CHAPTER IV.
DELUSIONS INVOLVING HEALTH AND LIFE.
Ancient remedies and preacri,Ptions-Deatb of king John-
Diaeuea presided over by samt1-Chann1-Aurum potabile
-Bezoars-Dead man's touch-Touching for king's evil-
Gold bullet-Harvey-Jenner-Animal magnetism.
AYONG the choicest temporal blessings which
God bestows upon man must be reckoned good
health. While the laws by which it ought to
be preserved are now more generally studied
and understood than perhaps at any former
period, the remedies and processes by which
it may be recovered when lost have also been
proportionately multiplied. It is no exaggera-
tion to assert, that the humblest peasant in our
country has now afforded to him, through the
means of our noble public institutions, an
amount of medical care, skill, and tenderness,
which, a few centuries ago, a monarch could
not have purchased ·with all the wealth of
his kingdom. Medical science, however, bas
., been a plant of slow growth. As in the
present chapter we review the mass of errors
and delusions through which the healing art
has had to make its advances, we call upon
Di itiz y g a.1 glrial 'rom
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
44 UEH.~RKABLE
DELUSIONS.
our reader to lift his heart in thankfulness to
God, for the abounding mercies which distin-
guish the period in which his lot has been cast.
At the time of the Trojan war, the adminis-
tr~tion of remedies was principally in the hands
of the priests, who believed that their prayers
accomplished more than their prescriptions.
'fhe remedies of the Orientals and the Romans
consisted mainly in charms; the Greeks alone
surpassed their contemporaries in science.
Cato proposed that, in cases of fracture, the·
litnb whilst bound up should have the fol- .
lowing charm daily sung over it : "Huat, hanat,
ista, pista, fista, dominabo damnastra et lu:cala."
'fhe Druids appear to have accompanied their
medical appliances by religious ceremonials,
which it was imagined gave them their chief
virtue. The n1anner in which the medicinal
herb was plucked, whether by the right hand
or the left; the metal of the instrument by
which it was cut off from its stalk ; the time of
the day at which it was procured; and even the
dress of the person collecting the simples, was
carefully prescribed; and the alleged absence
of some parts of the given formula· often saved
the credit of the operator.
Some of the ancient monkish legends describe
king John of England as poisoned by tl1e ad-
ministration of a venomous reptile in his drink. •
" Then went the monk into a garden, and found
a toad therein, and took her up, and put her in
a cup, and filled it with good ale, and pricked
her in every place_in the cup till the venom
8
Or1<;JI
r~ 'rom
INDIANA UNIVERSrTY
DISEASES PRESIDED OVER BY SAINTS. 45
came out in every place, and brought it before
the king, and kneeled, and said, ' Sir, wassail;
for never in your life drank ye of such a cup.'
'Begin, monk,' quoth the king. On which the
IQonk drank of the potion, and retiring from
the king's presence, died immediately." The
king himself only survived him two days. So
runs the legend, which, however untrue to fact,
sufficiently describes the superstitions of the
period. Similarly, one of the stories of the
Scottish borders represents a young man as
poisoned by partaking of a dish of stewed
adders, which he 1nistook for eels. We need
scarcely say that the toad is not venomous, and
that the poison of the adder is confined to its
fangs.
About the fifteenth century, Jewish medical
practitioners were much employed in Europe.
One of these, John of Gadesden, the court
physician of England, ordered the king's son,
then sick of the smallpox, to be rolled up in
scarlet cloth, and his·room to be hung with the
same material, as an infallible remedy.
The various diseases of the human body
were, after the introduction of Christianity into
England, supposed to lie at the mercy of cor-
responding saints. St. Anthony presided over
inflammations; St. Appolonia and Lucius over
.. the toothache ; St. Osillia and ·St. Clara over
sore eyes ; St. Ruffin over madness ; St. Valen-
tine over epilepsy ; St. Wolfgang over lame-
ness, ~tc.
Roger Bacon's notions of medicine were full
Di itiz y g a.1 glrial 'rom
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
46 REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
of tl1e errors of his age. He tells us of a
Parisian sage who cut a serpent nearly in
pieces, and then watched what it would do.
Observing that it dragged its body to a plant,
the leaves of which immediately made it whole,
lie regarded the circumstance as an infallible
indication of the 1nedicinal virtues of the indi-
cated plant. The story is, however, only a
reflection of a sin1ilar one in the pages of ancient
n1ythology. The same author asserts that the
flesh of dragons, ripen~ by severe hunting,
possesses the greatest virtue in prolonging life.
The middle or dark ages abounded with a
countless variety of charms, supposed to
possess efficacy in the removal of various
diseases. As a cure for the ague, the word
A B R A C A D A B A R A was believed to
possess great mystical virtues. It was thus
written:-
A BR AC AD ABAR A
BRACADABAR
RACADABA
ACADAB
CADA
AD
It was worn round the neck as an amulet.
The following· was a recipe for a wart :-..
" Take a piece of twine; tie it in as many knots
as you have warts ; touch each wart with a
knot, and then throw the twine behind your
back into some place where it may soon decay-
a pond or hole in the earth ; but tell no one
what yo'Q have done. When the twine ill
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
CHARIIS. 47
decayed, your warts will disappear without any
pain or trouble."
"Against the ·biting of a scorpion," this was
the remedy:-" Say to an ass secretly, and as
it were whispering in bis ear : ' I am bitt;en
with a scorpion."' • .
The leaves of an alder tree on which the sun
never shone were prescribed for erysipelas, and
a cross made of the alder and sallow for epi-
lepsy. To cure consumption, certain inhabitants
of Scotland tied a rag to the finger and toe nails
of the sick person, and then, having waved it
thrice round his head, buried it privately. This
appears to be a relic of Druidism. Ricketty
children were drawn through a split tree, which
was afterwards bound up so that its several
parts might grow together, and the recovery of
the diseased child WM believed to correspond
with the restoration of the tree. A cure for
hooping-cough was found in mounting the
patient on a black ass, led nine times round an
oak tree, or sometimes in giving the hair of the
child, rolled up in butter, to a dog. It was
believed in some parts of Berkshire that a ring
made out of con1munion money wasa sovereign
remedy against convulsions. ,.
Sometimes these charms assun1ed a religious
form, which, if not invented by priests, were
not at least forbidden by them.
All this is deplorable, and exhibits an amount
of ignorance and infatuation of which the
present enlightened age would be ashamed.
• Sco~t's " Discovery of Witchcraft," p. 116.
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
48 REMARKABLEDELUSIONS.
Some of these charms approach so near to the
blasphemous, as to forbid their insertion in our
pages. If the reader will turn to the last chap-
ter, to which such instances more appropriately
belong, he will ascertain enough of the darkness
of our forefathers respecting religion, to render
the most absurd practices employed in its name
by no means incredible.
Writers in medicine about two hundred
years ago, mad~ frequent mention of certain
potations of gold prescribed for various dis-
orders. Little doubt can exist that the aurum
potahile• was meant to throw the precious
metal, not so much into the throat of the patient
as into the pocket of the physician. At the
same period, great virtues were ascribed to
bezoars,that is, certain hard substances found
in the interiors of land animals. 'rhese stones
were supposed to expel poisons, and were sold
at enormous prices. One variety of this medi-
cine was formed from the heart and liver of
vipers. But at that period, the more disgusting
the medicine the greater were its reputed
virtues. The reader who has petused the
thrilling narrative of the death bed of king
Charles 11.,
may remember the nauseous and
revolting character of the remedies adopted for
the relief of the royal patient. There was a
celebrated prescription, called " treacle of mum-
my," which was compounded, as its name
imports, of the dust of ancient Egyptian bodies,
•. L?rd Bacon, in his- Sylva Sylvarum, approves this pre-
scnpt1on.
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
TOUCHING
FORKING'SEVIL. 49
considered to be sovereign when taken fasting
against all danger of poison.
The well-known custom of touching for the
·king's evil, as scrofulous complaints were once
termed, originated in the practice of Ed ward the
Confessor, though the manner in which it was
treated by that monarch was somewhat different
from that which after,vards became the custom.
It appears that Edward employed sundry
manipulations, and did not exclusively rely
upon the efficacy of the royal touch. Reft!rring
to a subsequent period, Aubrey says: " The
curing of the king's evil by the touch of the
king does much puzzle our philosophers, for
whether our kings were of the house of York
or Lancaster, it did the cure for the most part."
The following description of the religious cere-
,monial, as employed by Charles u., is given by
Evelyn: "His majesty began to touch for the
evil, according to custom, thus-His majesty
sitting under his state in the Banqueting House,
the chirurgeons cause the sick to be brought or
led up to the throne, where, they kneeling, the
king strokes their faces or cheeks with both his
hands at once, at which instant a chaplain in
his formalities says, 'He put his hands upon
them and healed them.' This is said to every
one in particular. When they have all been
touched, they come up again in the same order,
and the other chaplain kneeling, and having
angels of gold strung on white ribands on his
hand, deliver them one by one to his majesty,
who puts them about the necks of the touched
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
50 REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
as they pass, whilst the first chaplain repeats,
' That is the true light who came into the
world,'" etc. Dr. Johnson, it will be recollected,
was thus touched by queen Anne.
It is related that an old man, a witness in a
cause before a court of justice, having declared
that he had been touched by queen Anne for
scrofula, was asked by the judge whether he
were really cured. He smilingly replied, that
he did not think he ever had the complaint,
but that his parents were poor, " and had no
. objection to the bit of gold." It will be readily
believed that such an occurrence was by no
means a solitary one.
" Squire Morley, of Essex," says the rev. G.
Di itiz y
Asby, "used to say a prayer, which he hoped
would do no harm when he hung a bit of
vervain-root from a scrofulous person's neck...
My aunt Freeman had a very high opinion of
a baked toad in a silk bag, hung round the
neck. For live toads thus used, see Pennant's
British Zoology."•
The devout and holy Richard Baxter, whose
life and labours remain as a precious memorial
of the highest style of piety, had some points of
superstitious weakness. He relates in his Auto-
biography, a nostrum prescribed for one of his
many ailments, which gives a curious notion of
the state of medical knowledge in his day-
unless, indeed, it were merely a piece of char-
latanism. The account is thus given in Calamy's
abridgment of his Autobiography : " Having
• Brande, vol. iii. p. 301-303.
g a.1 glrial 'rom
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
HARVEY. 51
read in Dr. Gerhard the admirable eiFects of
the B\Vallowingof a gold bullet upon his own
father in a case much like his, he got a gold
bullet, between twenty and thirty shillings'
weight." But the good man found that the
bullet, instead of producing the cure he had
anticipated, was itself a sore and prolonged
disorder.
Till the end of the sixteenth century, so
firmly was the authority of the ancients esta-
blished among members of most learned profes-
sions, that t.he authority of Aristotle, through
the medium of Arabic translations, was quoted
as decisive of medical questions. When, how-
ever, men devoted themselves to the study of
anatomy, the errors of their previous conclusions
became distinctly obvious. None signalized
-himself more remarkably in this department
tlian ,villiam Harvey. Previously to his day,
a suspicion had been entertained that the blood
contained in the human body was not entirely
stagnant. But it was reserved for Harvey to
place before the world the whole theory cir its
circulation; to demonstrate how it was purified
by passing through the lungs; to distinguish
between the officeof the arteries M the channels
from the heart, and the veins as the channels to
it; and to explain the action of the ventricle, or
forcing pnmp, and of the auricle, or sucking
pump, of the central organ. This discoYery
was published in 1628. So unprepared was
the public mind at tl1at time for such an
announcement, that Harvey received mu.eh
8
Or1QIrial 'rbm
INDIANA UNIVERSrTY
52 UEUARKABLE DELUSIONS.
personal abuse, and lost much of his medical
practice.
One of the most deadly diseases wnieh, until
recently, desolated the comn1unity was the
smallpox. Upwards of 200,000 persons an-
nually fell victims to its ravages. The useful
introduction of inoculation (or the co1nmunica-
tion of the disease itself in a mild form) by
lady Mary Wortley Montague, learned by her
in Turkey,· w~ the signal for a tremendous
opposition, both medical and theologicaJ. The
practice was censured as wicked and diabolical,
diminishing" the salutary terror which prevails
respecting the uncertain approach of the dis-
ease;" it was anathematized from the pulpit and
denounced from the press. When, at a later
period, Dr.Jenner introduced his system ofvacci-
nation, (having discovered that milk-1naids, who
catch a certain disease common among cows,
escaped the dread infection of the smallpox,)
one of his opponents asked, "What might
be the consequence of introducing a bestial
huntour into the human frame after a long
lapse of years ?" The pertinent rejoinder was,
" What may be the consequence, after a long
lapse of years, of introducing into the human
fran1e cows' milk, beef-steaks, or mutton-
chops ?" The sanitary benefits of the inven-
tion, however, speedily reconciled the ,vorld to
what was at first regarded as a disgusting
innovation.
Di itiz by
The extraordinary qualities possessed by the
magnet, though not absolutely unknown, ,vere
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
ANUIAL :MAGNETISM. 58
not brought into the use of commerce till the
sixteenth century. Before that period, however,
magnetism was applied in medical cases.
Paracelsus and others ascribed to it peculiar
virtues. When it had attained notoriety as a
means of navigation, it also rose into repute as
a cure. At the end of the seventeenth century,
pains in the teeth and ears were treated by the
use of magnetic toothpicks. In cases of rheu-
matic pains, also, patients were supposed to
obtain great relief by being rubbed in the
proper direction with magnets prepared for
that purpose. Unquestionably the magnet has
great value in relieving the eye, if troubled
by the presence of particles of iron and
steel. But this has no connexion with its
medical, but onjy with its mechanical powers.
Paracelsus, however, extolled its virtues in
cases in which it might be supposed to exert
no influence whatever. Was a man severely
wounded ? he proposed to anoint by a certain
unguent, not the wound itself, but the weapon
which had caused the wound. This was a
happy escape for the patient, for whom nothing
was to be done but to wash the cut with cold
water and cover it with a linen rag, taking
care to keep it clean, and daily to remove all
offensive matter·. If the recipe for the anointing
salve were written out according to a modern
medical formulary, some of its ingredie!:1ts
would surpass the powers even of Apothecaries'
Hall. lloss, growing o~ the_ head of a thief
Jeft hanging, powder of real mummy, human
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
54 REMARKABLE DELUSIONS.
blood, etc., ,vere its principal ingredients. 1"he
disorder itself was mainly let alone.
This sympathetic mode of cure was sub-
sequent!y practised with great success, if ,ve
may believe himself, by sir Kenelm Digby,
secretary to Charles 1. We have recently
perused " A late discours made in solemne
assembly of nobles and learned men at Mont-
pellier, in France, by sir Kenelm Digby, knt.,"
etc., (1658.) This " exquisite philosophical
discourse," as the preface to its translation calls
it, '' relates the cure of a very sore hurt, which
was perfected by the power of sympathy," in the
presence of king James, his son, and the duke
of Buckingham. Mr. Howell, who had at-
tempted to part two men when fighting a duel,
got his hand severely wounded. " I asked
him," says sir Kenelm, ·" for anything that had
the blood upon it. So he presently sent ibr his
garter, wherewith his hand was first bound, and
as I called for a basin of water as if I would
wash my hands, I took a handful of powder of
white vitriol, which I had in my study, and pre-
sently dissolved it ; as soon as the bloody
garter was brought me, I put it within the
basin, observing in the interim what l\Ir.
Howell did, who stoocltalking with a gentleman
in the corner of my chamber, not regarding at
all what I was doing ; but he started suddenly
as if he had found some great alteration in him-
self. I asked him what he ailed. ' I know
not,' said he, 'what ails me, but I find that I
feel no more pain. Methinks that a pleasing
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
ANWAL MAGNETISM. 55
kind of freshness, as it were a wet cold napkin,
did spread over my hand, which hath taken
away the infiammation that tormented me
before." To demonstrate still more the nature
of this sympathy, sir Kenelm relates that, after
dinner, and in Mr. Rowell's absence, he took
the garter, and held it before the fire. In a
short time, Mr. Rowell's servant came to say
that his master was in a great fever. The con-
nexion hinted at in the last paragraph may be
well regarded as somewhat apocryphal. But
whatever might be the merit of the powder of
sympathy, the treatment of the wound by sir
Kenelm, who, contrary to the practice of those
days, ordered the patient. to keep it clean, and
to throw away all plaisters, were well adapted
to effect a cure. Some notion of the " philoso-
phy" of sir Kenelm may be derived from the
fact, that this knight recommends the washing
of the hands in a basin shone into by the moon
without water, saying, that "the moonshine
would have humidity enough to cleanse the
hands because of the star from which it is
derived." He declares that this is also an
infallible way to remove ·warts.
Lord Bacon refers to the sympathetic powder,
in his Natural History, with approbation. The
secret of composing similar powders, hnd it
been known to the public, would probably have
caused many more diseases than cures. It is a
singular phenomenon connected with the evi-
dence of testimony, that remedies praised by a
thousand mouths in one aae as infallible, should
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz y
56 REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
be ascertained in the next to possess no virtue
whatever. All charlatanism, however, exhibits
asuccession of similar changes, and has cycles
of recurrence too.
In process of time there arose a new method
of applying this magnetizing influence. 1.Ir.
Valentine Greatraks, once a soldier of the Com-
monwealth, professed to effect astonishing cures
by stroking with his hands the parts affected.
Headache, palsy, rheumatism, epilepsy, con-
vulsions, were said to yield to this remedial
treatment. In 1766, this mode of cure was
taken up by }Ies1ner, who was half an astro-
loger and wholly a quack. He gave similar
applications the name of a science, and called it
animal magnetism, to distinguish it from mineral
magnetism, in which it originated.
The l!lode in which Mesmer operated in
Paris was extraordinary. He placed in the
centre of a room a vessel, about four feet in
diameter and one in depth, containing a num-
ber of bottles filled with magnetized water.
From the cover of this vessel proceeded various
rods of iron, each of which was held by a
patient, who made one in a circle placed around
the baquet,,vhilst every patient was united to
the neighbouring one by a chain of connexion.
Certain " magnetizers " then went round, and
directed to the patients various passes, till the
expected hysterical symptoms began ·to appear.
All this was done in perfect silence. Mesmer
himself then appeared, dressed in robes of
flowing silk, and holding in his hand a long
g a.1 glrial 'rom
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
· AmMAL MAGNETISM. 57
wand. He professed to regulate the crises of
his patients, and when he found them in a con-
vulsed state, he made passes upon or towards
them. At his pleasure, calmness succeeded to
the energy of intense action, and the patients
described themselves as feeling streams of cool-
ing vapour at his touch.
Mesmer now became the talk of the salonsof
Paris. Wealth seemed within his grasp, and
he was offered by the king (Louis XVI.) a large
sum to make known his discovery. He had,
however, no desire to submit his empiricism to
investigation, and removed precipitately to Spa.
He left,behind him a partner, M. D'Eslon, who
afforded to the Royal Commissioners all the
explanations he could give, and an inquiry was
forthwith instituted into the alleged phcno1nena.
It was conducted by 1cientific men of the
highest reputation. Their conclusion was, that
animal magnetism had no proofs to sustain it
except the effects apparently produced on the
human frame-that these effects could be pro-
duced without passes at all-and that whatever
manipulations were employed depended for
their success on the patient's real though uncon-
scious knowledge. The conclusion was, that
the whole process was purely imaginative.
The revival of animal magnetism in our own
day, is a subject of too modern a character for
us appropriately to handle. The history of this
art, we n1ay only observe, illustrates very strik-
ingly one great fact-the power of will possessed
by the resolute and determined over the weak
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
58 RElL\RKABLEDELUSIONS.
and diseased sensibilities of an inferior physical
nature. 'fhis, properly resolved, is no matter
of surprise, and is in entire accordance with the
ordinary laws of man's being, which prescribes
that some shall be stronger and some weaker.
But there is a moral exemplification of this
power of will, which is not only pitiable, but
awful, and which is the most guilty infraction
of the la,vs which God has prescribed for man's
character and conduct. Fearful are the exhi-
bitions afforded, when son1e human being,
strong to do evil, controls and tyrannizes over
his fellow-man, seducing by his own example,
and using the victim as the tool for his own
base and degrading purposes. And terrible is
the case of him who, permitting himself to be
led away by a mightier than himself, abandons
the principles which would have saved him,
forgets the God who is almighty to deliver, and
yields himself or herself a prey to the deluder.
Reader, whoever you may be, young man or
young woman, beware I Dare to resist, how-
ever difficult, the power which would enthral
you! To say "no" in the hour of strong
temptation is the noblest exercise of Christian
virtue. But God alone, by his Holy Spirit, can
give you grace to pronounce that sometimes
omnipotent word. That Spirit is freely offered
to all who ask it aright. The promise has gone
forth, "Ask, and it shall be given you ; seek,
and ye shall find ; knock, and it shall be
opened unto you; for every one that asketh
rcceiveth ; and he that seeketh findeth ; and to
g
a.1gln;~ 'rem
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
ANDIAL MAGNETJSK. 59
him that knocketh it shall be opened••••• If
ye, then, being evil, know how to give good gifts
unto your children, how much more shall your
Father which is in heaven give good things to
them that ask them," Matt. viii. 7, 8, 11.
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
60 REMARKABLE DELUSIONS.
CHAPTER V.
DELUSIONS INVOLVING SUPERNATURAL VISITATIONS.
Old Engliah Jegenda-Vampyrea-Ordeala-Ghoata-Dreams
-Somnambulism-Practical Reflections.
THERE is no part of man's organization more
distinctly marked than his longings after the
unseen. To commune with the invisible, and
to expatiatt! in the eternal, are original instincts
of man's nature-noble when taking the direc-
tion which God himself indicates; but paltry
and puerile when employed for purposes dif:.
ferent from those which he has prescribed.
All who are not abandoned to entire thoughtless-
ness, are conscious of periods when deep solici-
tude about things invisible fills the soul. It is
felt at such seasons that man is more than a
material thing, and that the grave cannot be
the limitation of his existence. Hence the
anxiety of the soul to know what awaits it
beyond the tomb. The \\"Ordof God, wbile
refusing to gratify idle curiosity, bas met the
cravings of man's nature by revealing to hin1
the momentous truths of his eternal existence
in a world to come ; the misery or bliss that
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
BONAPARTE'S
"STAR OF DESTINY." 61
must characterize that existence, as he dies at
enmity against God or in state of reconciliation
with him ; his lost and mined condition by
nature; the need of his being born again by
the Holy Spirit ; and the necessity of faith
in the atonement and justifying righteousness
of the Lord Jesus Christ, as the sole ground of
a sinner's acceptance before God. The carnal
heart, however, while refusing faith to God's
testimony on these points, is too often distin-
~uished by childish credulity with respect to
facts respecting the unseen world, which are
only man's erro~eous invention. In the follow-
ing chapter some of these will be enumerated
by us. While carefully desirous of avoiding
all appear~nce of dogmatism, we feel it in the
outset our duty to call upon our reader to test
all narratives of popular superstitions by the
severest and strictest law~of evidence. A spirit
of credulity, however it may be fostered by the
Romish church, is the very opposite of the
spirit o-ftrue faith. It is curious, indeed, to
observe how those who forsake the latter are
generally prone to indulge the former. Napo-
leon Bonaparte believed on the presiding star
ot his destiny; and many of the literary circle
that surrounded the "philosophical" king,
Frederick the Great, while they derid~ the
truths of revelation, could yet perpetrate such
follies as those which are recorded in the follow-
ing extract. " Lanethrie, an avowed atheist,
used to make the sign of the cross if it thun-
dered. D'Argens would shudder if there were
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
62 ~EMARKABLEDELUSIONS.
thirteen seated round the table. Others were
the dupes of fortune-tellers, and fhll half of
the court believed that a woman, all in white,
appeared in one of the apartments of the castle,
holding in her hands a large broon1, with
which she swept the room when any of the
royal family were about to die. Several per-
sons of distinction, occupying high places under
government, were duped by a person who pre-
tended to have the power of intercourse with
evil spirits so as to discover hidden treasure.
They even went the length of offering sacrifices
to the devil, and procured at a great cost, as an
acceptable offering, a goat which had not a
single hair that was not black. Such are the
inconsistencies of infidelity, and such are the
aberrations into which men are seduced, when,
for the delusions of their imaginations, they
forsake the word of the living God."
In proportion as we recede towards the
infancy of ~ociety, especially where Divine
revelation has not poured its light upon the
mind, we find the passion for the unseen un-
governable and dangerous, and early hjstory is
crowded thick with portents, many of ·which
may have originally possessed some conce~led
foundation, though, as they meet our eye, they
are absolutely mythological and untrue. ,v
e
will not, however, venture on the subject ante-
rior to the date of modern history. The reader
of the Old English Chronicles will be familiar
with numerous exemplifications of this credu-
lous taste. The history (as it is called) of
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
VillPYRES. 63
Geoffrey of Monmouth, abounds with incidents
of this fabulous character.
Among the superstitions which paganism
transmitted to nominal Christians, was one of
which scarcely any traces are now extant,
though in its day it exerted a horrifying influ-
ence. It was known under the name of Vam-
pyrism. A vampyre was represented as a dead
man, quickened by magical processes into
supernatural life, which was sustained by prey-
ing upon the bodies of the dead. The Greek
Christians appear to have beEln specially
addicted to this delusion, and in various coun-
tries of Europe, as in Bohemia and Hungary,
such superstitions were prevalent even during
the last century. 'To such an extent did
credulity on this subject prevail, that not only
were vampyres imagined in every district, but
assemblies of soldiers and ecclesiastics gravely
met to deliberate ho,v the enormity could be
stayed. One mode of discovering a vampyre
was to pace a jet-black horse up and down the
churchyard between the graves. If the animal
turned restive, and refused to proceed, it was
concluded that a vampyre existed somewhere in
the vicinity.
'fhe process of ascertaining the innocence or
guilt of an accused person by the trial of ordeal
is of great antiquity. The followers of Zoroas-
tev the Hindoos, and the Tartars, alike prac-
tised it. It has been already shown, in one of
the volu1nes of the Monthly Series, how the
hun1anbody may be rendered capablr ofresisting
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
64: REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
the clfects of intense heat.• Such preparations
were well known to the ancients, and to those who
lived in the dark ages. Accused persons often
handled red-hot iron without sustaining injury.
Harold, king of Norway, in order to prove his
title to the crown, walked over metal in this
state unscathed. Popon, to convince the Danes
of the truth of Christianity, (a wretched proof
of so important a theore1n,) put his naked arm
into a gauntlet heated to a white heat, and
drew it forth entirely sound. At Dydmo-
theque, in France, a wife, suspected by her
husband, lifted a bar of red-hot iron, which she
carried three times round a chair. She then
dropped the iron on the chair, which was
instantly in a blaze. The husband was satis-
fied ; but the wife declared to the bishop that
she was, nevertheless, guilty. In such instances
there can be no doubt of a familiarity with cer-
tain secret~ known only to the initiated.
Under the Anglo-Saxon government of these
islands, the imperfection of knowledge in the use
of circumstantial evidence rendered such trials
of frequent occurrence. The principal ordeals
were two-by water and by fire. li the trial
was by the former, a caldron of water was
made to boil in some part of a churcn, varying
in depth according to the presumed guilt of the
accused persQn. A heavy weight was then
placed within the caldron, to be drawn out. by
the prisoner with his arm bare. The ar1n was
afterwards covered over and sealed up by the
• Magic, ~tended Miracles, etc.
8
Or1QI
rial 'rbm
INDIANA UNIVERSrTY
ORDEALS. t35
priest until the third day. If, at the expiration
of that· time, the limb was healed, the accused
person was deemed innocent; if otherwise, he
was punished as unquestionably guilty. The
corresponding ordeal was similar. A red-hot
piece of iron being produced, was to be liftecl
by the hands of the accused, who was required
to take three prescribed steps whilst holding it.
The band was then bound up and sealed as
before. . It is evident that such .cases afforded
much opportunity for_connivanceand collusion,
and that the interested or party prejudices of
the judges would materially modify the results.
Many other ordeals are n1entioned by various
authors. At St. Sane, in Bretagne, was an iron
collar, which, bound round the neck, left (it ,vas
said) the innocent uninjured, but strangled the
guilty. The action of the collar was regulated,
in all probability, by the opinion the operator
might have of the merits of the case before
him.
. Credulity ~as, however, found no more ex-
tensive field for the exercise of its powers, than
that which is associated with the idea of forms
from another world. What terrors have not
been excited, what idle and worthless volumes
have not been written, on this engrossing
theme ? . The subject is too prolific to receive
in these pages more than a very epiton1ized
notice. · It is unnecessary to analyse the
accounts given of such appearances in the
pages of Holy Scripture. We have no reason to
e~pect, in the ordinary government of the world
Di itiz by
g
0
Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
66 REMAnKABLE
DELUSIONS.
by the providence of God, those manifestatiol)s
which, in his wisdom, he deemed necessary
under a dispensation attended by miracles.
'fhat such appearances have been, is no proof
that such things now are, any more than the
fact that miraculous operations once took place
is an argument for believing in their now daily
recurrence. Such appearances in modem times
will, it is evident, depend for their frequency
very greatly on the degree of popular credulity
which may be prevalent. In certain states of
mind, the unexplained passes readily into the
supernatural or even into the terrific.
It would be clearly impossible to undertake
the elucidation of every occurrence which seems
to fa.vour the belief of this superstition. Yet
the explanation of a few cases may afford a
light by which to estimate the force of others
yet involved in n1ystery.
That some of these alleged cases are the
simple effect of error or misapprehension is
what will be denied by no judicious inquirer.
A friend of the writer told him the following
incident:-
He had been kept out by some business far
beyond his usual hour, and was returning home
in very early morning, at a time when objects
were indistinctly seen, and when the mind, it
may be added, overstrained by undue exertion,
is in a condition very favourable for the re-
ception of ideas of the supernatural. His path
lay by a churchyard. Just as he reached it,
he saw, though indistinctly, a white figure
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
GHOSTS. 67
slowly moving to and fro close to its precincts.
If, alarmed by terror, he had fled from the
spot, his tale might have added a new item to
the catalogue of spectral appearances. But he
went on, and as he drew nearer, he ascertained
that the supposed apparition was only the
inhabitant of a cottage hard by the church,
who, unable to sleep, and half-undressed, was
taking an airing, certainly at a very unseason-
able, and, as it would have proved to most, at
a very uncomfortable hour in the morning.
The following is the narration of a Newcastle
sea-captain : "His cook,'' he said, " chanced
to die upon his passage homeward. This
honest fellow, having bad one of his legs a little
shorter than the other, used to walk in that
way which our vulgar idiom calls with an
up and a down. A few nights after his body
had been committed to the deep, our captain
was alarmed by his mate with an account that
the cook was walking before the ship, and that
all hands were on deck to see him. The
captain, angry at being disturbed in his sleep,
ordered them to let him alone, and try whith,
the ship or he, should get first to Ne,vcastle.
But turning out on further importunity, he
confessed that he had like to have caught the
contagion; for, on seeing something move in a
,vay so similar to that which the cook was
" wont to do, and withal having a cap on so like
that which he was used to wear, he verily
thought that there was more in the report than
he was at first willing to believe. A general
...
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
68 REMAUKABLE
DELUSIONS.
panic diffused itself; he ordered the ship to be
steered round towards the object, but not a
man would move the helm. Con1pslled to do
this himself, he found, on a nearer approach,
that the ridiculous cause of all their terror ,vas
part of a main-top, the remains of some wreck
floating before then1."•
There is something to be learned from the
following conversation between Dr. Fowler, a
former bishop of Gloucester, a great believer in
the supernatural, and ]Hr. Justice Powell, who
had less credulity. The latter one day told the
former that we had now ocular demonstration
to convince him of the existence of ghosts.
'fhe bishop congratulated him on his-discovery
vf the truth, and the justice told how, as he
lay in bed one night, he heard something con1e
up stairs and stalk towards his room. " I
drew," said he "n1y curtain, and saw a faint
glimmering of light enter my chamber." " Of
a blue colour, no doubt," said the bishop. "Of
a pale blue," answers the justice; "the light
was followed by a tall, meagre, and stern per-
sonage, who seemed about seventy, in a long,
dangling gown, bound round with a leathern
girdle, his face wrinkled, and of a dark sable
hue." " .And did you not speak to it?" inter-
rupted the bishop. "l\ily lord, I did speak to
it." "And what answer, lir. Justice?" " l\Iy
lord, the answer was, that he was the watchman
of the night, and came to give n1e notice that
he had found the street door open1
and that
• Hibbert.
8
Or1<;JI
r~ 'rom
INDIANA UNIVERSrTY
GHOSTS. 69
unless I rose and sl1ut it, I might chance to be
robbed befo.re break of day."
. After the marringe of ifr. Matthews, a come-
dian, he took lodgings in York, in a room
which had been formerly occupied by Sterne,
but which was reported to be haunted, though
the ghost was only to be heard in the best bed-
room. When night catne, and just as the
Minster clock struck twelve, the sleepers were
awaked by three blows, asthey believed,upon
their heads. Nothing, however, appeared wl1ich
might afford a clue to the explanation ; but
every night, precisely at the sa1ne witching
hour, the same knocks ,vere repeated. The
pair became uneasy, but the cheapness of the
lodgings still tempted .them to remain. At
length the noises suddenly ceased, and were
never renewed. It may be easily supposed
that the silence was almost as awful as the
sounds. Some weeks after this, as Matthews
and his wife were sitting in a room in company
with a widow, the conversation turned on
the Stonegate ghost. As a Mrs. Long, who
was present, heard it, she said, " Why, that was
1ny dear Billy Long I'' In the issue, it ap-
peared that her husband, a bed-ridden 1nan,
lodging in the adjoining house to Matthews,
was much annoyed through fear of thieves,
especially dreading that they should come from
behind his bed. As he was remarkable for his
love of punctuality, he had been accust.omed,
just as the Minster clock struck twelve, to deal
three heavy blow·s upon the arras which hung
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
__..
Di itiz by
70 REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
behind his .pillow. His death -was followed, ot
course, by a cessation of the sounds.
Sir Walter Scott, in his " Letters on Demo-
nology and Witchcraft," relates the following
occurrence, which we imagine refers to himself
and to the supposed apparition of his deceased
friend, lord Byron:-
" Not Ion~ after the death of a certain illus-
trious poet, who had filled,when living, a great
station in the eye of the public, a literary friend,
to whom the deceased had been well known,
was engaged, during the darkening twilight of
an autumn evening, in perusing one of the
publications which professed to detail the habits
and opinions of the distinguished individual
who wasno,vno more...• A visitor was sitting
in the apartment who was engaged in reading.
Their sitting-room opened into an entrance hall;
rather fantastically fitted up with articles of
armour, wild animals, and the like. It was
,vhen laying down his book and passing into
the ball, through which the moon was begin-
ning to shine, that the individual of whom I
speak sa,v, right before him, and in a standing
posture, the exact representation of his de-
.parted friend, whose recollection had been so
strongly brought to his imagination. He
stopped for a single moment, so as to notice the
,vonderful accuracy with which fancy had im-
pressed on his bodily eye the peculiarities of
dress and posture of the illustrious poet. Sensi-
ble, however, of the delusion, he felt no senti-
ment save that of ,vonder at the extraordinary
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
GHOSTS. 71
accuracy of the resemblance, and stepped on-
wards towards the figure, which resolved itself
as he approached into the various materials of
which it was composed. These were merely a
screen, occupied by great coats, shawls, plaids,
and such 9ther articles as are usually found in
a country entrance hall. The spectator re-
turned to the spot from which he had seen the
illusion, and endeavoured with all his power to
recall the itnage which had been so singularly
vivid. But this was beyond his capacity ; and
the person who had witnessed the apparition,
or, more properly, whose excited state had been
the means of raising it, bad only to return, and
tell the young friend he had left under what
a striking hallucination be had for a moment
laboured."
The narration which follows presents a strik-
ing case in illustration of our subject:-
A club of persons in the town of Plymouth
was accustomed to meet during the sun11ner
months in a secluded summer-house, accessible
to many of the members by a pass-key. On
occasion of one of its meetings, the president for
the evening was taken dangerously ill, and, as
a mark of respect, the chair designed for him
was left unoccupied. His absence naturally led
to a conversation on the talents and character
of the absentee. Whilst the membe1·s were
thus speaking, the figure of the president entered
the room. It was ghastly pale, and clothed in
white. Gliding to the vacant chair, it lifted the
empty glass before him, bowed to the company,
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
72 REMARKABLEDELUSIONS.
and put it to his lips-then, in dead silence,·
disappeared as it had entered. The effect on
the club was horrifying. After remaining for
son1etime together conversing on this appalling
incident, two of the numher went to the house .
of the president, and found him dead.
Long after the news of the super~atural -
visitation had been circulated and obtained an
awful credence, it ,vas discovered that the de-
ceased man, immediately before his death, and
whilst the nurse appointed to watch by bis
bed-side was asleep, had, in a fit of delirium,
actually gone to the summer-house, and had
only returned to his own bed to die. If that
explanation had been wanting, the whole scene,
witnessed as it was by many spectators at once,
n1ight have passed for one of_the best attested
ghost stories on record.
The phenomenon oftl1espectre oftheBrocken,
a range ofmountains in Hanover,may be already
familiar to many of our readers. As, however,
it is illustrative of certain delusions on the
subject ofspectral appearances, a slight reference
to it may be allowed. ll. Hane visited it for
the thirty-first time at a period when the en1i-
nence was surrounded by " transparent vapours
not yet condensed into clouds." He observed
at a great distance a gigantic human figure.
The wind blowing briskly, he raised his hand
to protect his hat. The figure did the same.
He moved his body, and threw himself into
various gestures. So did the figure. He called
the landlord of an adjacent inn; there were
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
GHOSTS. 73
now two figures instead of one. These figures
afterwards increased to three, and " every move-
n1ent they made was hnitated by the three
figures, but the effect varied in its intensity,
being sometimes weak and faint, and at other
ti~es strong and well-defined." 'fhe clouds
,vere but a kind of imperfect mirror, in which
the spectators saw their own reflection. .
Dr. Clarke, the traveller, relates, that being
in the vicinity of Constantinople, he was
looking out of. his cabin window, having an
officer by his side, when he witnessed a horrible
apparition. There floated before him a corpse,
sewed up in a hammock, in almost an upright
position, half out of the water, and borne along
by the current of the ocean. "Nothing," he
says, " coul4 be more horrible; its head and
shoulders were visible, turning first to one side,
then to the other, with a solemn and awful
move1nent, as if impressed ,vith some dreadful
secret of the deep, which from its watery grave
it came upwards to reveal." The cause is
evident. The process of decomposition had
rendered the body light enough to counter-
balance the weights with which, at the time of
its burial, it had been sunk, and this explained
its erect posture.
The stories of the Cock-lane and Stockwell.
ghosts, which during a considerable period kept
London in an uproar, and were at length clearly
traced to tricks and confederacy, are too long
to be here detailed.
That manysupposed supernatural appearances
c2
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
74 REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
in past ages have originated in the devices of
the clever and designing, and were circulated
for the purposes ofincreasing wealth or influence,
is plainly apparent. Some monks availed them-
selves thus of the superstitions of one of the,
kings of France, St. Louis. The king had
expressed a wish to ha,,e a community of the
monks of St. Bruno settled near Paris. These
monks fixed a longing eye upon the ancient
palace of Vauvert, which appeared exactly to
accord with their notions ofa desirable residence.
Vauvert immediately became haunted; sounds
issued from -it at night; and dancing light.s,
clanking chains, dreadful howlings, and other
frightful phenomena, alar1ued its neighbours.
'l'hese were succeeded by a spectral form in
green, with a beard of white, ,vhich was nightly
. seen in one of the palace windows. The monks
told the tale to the king, and declared that if
they were a1lowed to occupy the palace, the
spectres should soon be exterminated. 1'he
king conveyed to them the property, the ghosts
disappeared, the noises were heard no more,
and the monks of St. Bruno enjoyed the advan-
tages of a quiet residence.
Di itiz by
The writer was not long since at Linlithgow,
a celebrated palace of the former kings, or
rather queens, of Scotland, through whose
deserted and fire-blasted walls the wind now
sweeps unchecked. Its neighbouring church is
the scene ofa very famous ghost story. Pitscottie
thus relates it:" The king (James IV.) came to
Lithgow, where he happened to be for tl1e time
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
GHOSTS. 75
at the council, very sad and dolorous, making
his devotion to God, to send him good chance
and fortune in his voyage." (lie ~~ just about
to leave for the battle of Flodden-field, in which
he was slain.) "In the meanwhil~ there came
a man, clad in a blue gown, in at the kirk door,
and belted about him a roll of linen cloth, a
· pair of buskins upon his feet to the great of
his legs, with all other hose and cloth conform
thereto; but he had nothing on his head but
long yellow hair behind and on his cheeks, but
his forehead was ba]d and bare. He seemed to
be a man of two-and-fifty years, with a great
pikestaff in his hand, and came first forward
among the lords, crying and speiring (asking)
for the king, saying he desired to speak with
him. While, at the last, he came where the
king was sitting in the desk at his prayers; but
when he saw the king, he made him little
reverence or salutation, but leaned down gruffly
on the desk before him, and said to him in this
manner, as after follows: ' Sir king, my mother
bath sent me to you, desiring you not to pass
at this time where you are purposed, for if
thou doest, thou wilt not farewell in thy journey,
nor none that passeth with thee.'" The ap-
parition then, after a few niore remonstrances,
disappeared. But so1ne of the accounts describe
it as disappearing towards the queen's apart-
ments. Little doubt can be entertained that
the whole was a trick devised by her Scottish
majesty, who provided a person to put on the
garb of St. John, (the adopted son of the virgin
Di itiz by g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
76 RE.MARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
Mary,) that he might. warn the king against
what ,vas likely to be an unfortunate, and
perhaps disastrous expedition.
The following circumstance will still further
illustrate the present subject. During the early
part of the last century, some inhabitants of
Dorking entertained the notion that a ghost
,valked at a certain place in their neighbou;r-
hood, and that a recently deceased lady was to
be seen hovering about her late dwelling with
a clattering noise, and in the night ,valking
through the fields with a candle, which the
highest winds did not extinguish. The report
greatly ·alarmed the surrounding inhabitants.
In the end, it proved to be only the trick of
some idle, but wicked boys, belonging to a
boarding-school hard by.
The incident is related by Defoe, in his
· "flistory of Apparitions." If, as is not impro-
bable from his manner of relating the story, he
"'as himself concerned in this wicked ~rick, it
might prepare the way for a much n1ore repre-
hensible appeal to superstitious minds perpe-
trated by him in his later years. The publisher
of" Drelincourt on Death" complained that his
book would not sell. Defo·e undertook to ad-
1ninister what would cure the evil. He there-
fore wrote.as
a preface the pretended apparition
of l\:Irs.Veal. 'fhe work then sold by thousands.
,,re cannot sufficiently reprehend the tricks,
which, under the name of practical jokes,
possess so great a charm for some evil-dispose1.
11ersons. HoweveJ ignorant tl1ose are on
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
GUOSTS. 77
whom such pranks are played, their sensibilities
ought to be regarded with pity ; and. very
serious, and sometimes fatal consequences have
often attended similar perpetrations.
· Certain physical disorders of the stomach and
organs of digestion are well known by medical
men to be attended by vivid imagery, as distinct
as if the objects of delusion had themselves
passed before the eyes of the spectator. Such
impressions, often heightened for the time by
the effects of anodynes employed for their relief,
have been frequently mistaken for something
supernatural. . Sir David Brewster, in his
"Letters on Natural liagic," relates several of
these phenomena, as illustrated by the experi-
ence of a lady who1n he calls" Mrs. A.":-
She once came into her drawing-room, when
she saw ·clearly the image of her husband-
then absent from the house-standing with his
back to the fire, looking at her serious}y and
fixedly. After a little tiine, during which the
vision retained its first attitude, she called out,
"Why don't you speak?" The figure moved
towards the window, and disappeared.
On another occasion, her husband being
present, she was annoyed by the appearance of
a black cat, and could with difficulty be per-
suaded that it ,vas only an illusion, although
the room was searched without finding such an
animal, and a dog, who would have been roused
by such a visitant, was reposing quietly on the
hearthrug. An apparition, dressed in a shroud,
figures of deceased friends-a carriage driving
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
78 ItEMARKABLEDELUSIONS.
up to the door-the appearance of a large dog-
were also an1ong the spectral visions by which
she was successively assailed. Both the lady
and her husband were perfectly awar~ of the
unreality of her impressions.
" A highly intelligent friend," says Dr. Aber-
crombie, "whom I attended several years ago
in a mild but protracted fever, without delirium,
had frequent interviews with a spectral visitor,
who present~d the appearance of an old and
grey-headed man, of a most benignant aspect.
His visits were always conducted exactly in
the same manner ; he entered the room by a
door which was on the left-hand side of the bed,
and seated himself on a chair on the right-hand
side ; he then fixed his eyes upon the patient
with an expression of intense interest and pity,
but riever spoke ; continued distinctly visible
for some seconds, and then seemed to vanish
into air. These visits were repeated daily for
several days, but sometimes he missed a day ;
and the appearance continued for several weeks.
The same gentleman, on another occasion, when
in perfect health, sitting in his parlour in the
evening, saw distinctly, in the corner of the
room, a female figure in a kneeling posture,
who continued visible for several seconds."•
Laplace relates, that a relation of Bossuet,
though he had no other syrnptoms of sickness,
saw the figures of men, birds, and boats con-
tinually moving and disappearing before him,
though perfectly aware that such appearances
• Abercrombie on "The Intellectual Powers."
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
GHOSJS. 79
,vere merely delusions. General Thiebault,
also, in ·the state of ·depletion consequent on
an inflammatory attack, distinguished various
fantastic objects, which danced before his eyes,
and even amused himself by describing them to
the friends who surrounded his couch.
1'Iany ehnilar instances might be cited, of
visions preceding attacks of apoplexy and of
epilepsy, and others precursi ve of the access of
insanity.
We need scarcely add, t?at the effects of a
continued course of dissipation are well known
to concentrate themselves into the terrible form
of delirium tremens-an awful lesson to those
,v
ho, forgetful of the laws of God and man, are
wasting their constitutional powers in such
.
ruinous excesses.
" A young gentle1nan, who has recently left
Oxford, told me that he was one evening at a
supper party in college, when they were joined
by a comn1on friend, on his return home from
hunting. They expected him, but were struck
with his appearance. He was pale and agitated.
On questioning him, they learned the cause.
During the latter part of his ride home he had
been accon1panied by a horseman, who kept
exact pace,.with him, the rider and horse being
close fac-similes of himself and the steed he
rode, ·even to the copy of a new-fangled bit,
which he used that day for the first time. He
l1ad, in fact, seen his 'double,' or ' fetch,' and
it had shaken his nerves considerably. IIis
friends advised him to consult the college tutor,
8
Or1<;JI
r~ 'rom
INDIANA UNIVERSrTY
80 REllARKABl:EDELUSIONS.
who failed not to give him some good advice,
and hoped the warning would not be thrown
away. l\tly informant, who thought the whole
matter very serious, and was inclined to believe
the ·unearthly visit to have been no idle one,
added, that it had made the ghost-seer, for a
time at least, a wiser and better man."*
'rhe effect of opium, whether taken as a
medicine or in compliance with a baneful habit,
is not dissimilar. " Sometime ago," says Dr.
Abercrombie, " I attended a gentleman affected
with a painful local disorder, requiring the use
of opiates, but which often failed in producing
sleep. In one watchful night, there passed
before him a long and regular exhibition of
characters and transactions connected with cer-
tain occurrences which had been the subject of
much conversation in Edinburgh some time
before. 'fhe characters succeeded each other
with all the regularity and vividness of a
theatrical exhibition ; he heard their conversa-
tion and long speeches that were occasionally
made, some of which were in rhyme ; and he
distinctly remembered, and repeated next day,
long passages from these poetical effusions. He
was quite awake, and quite sensible that the
whole was a phantasm ;- and he remarked that
,vhen he opened his eyes the vision vanished,
but instantly re-appeared whenever he closed
them."t
Di itiz by
In professor Gregory's abstract of Baron von
* Mayo's Popular Superstitions, p. 51.
t Abercromtiie's "Intellectual Powers," p. 188.
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
GHOSTS. 81
Reichenbach's researches in magnetism, an
account is given of some persons, whose .ex-
treme sensitiveness enabled them to detect
appearances entirely unperceived by others
above a grave. He mentions the case of a
young clergyman, named Billing, who had dis-
covered a dead body by a certain luminous
appearance above the spot. The peculiar form
he gave to it was probably, however, only the
effect of his own imagination. Billing said, that
whenever he went near a grave-yard he always
observed many similar appearances. Though
the fact is not familiar to most persons, no
, doubt can exist that a corpse is, as the professor
describes it, " a field for abundant che1nical
changes, decomposition, fermentation, putrefac-
tion, gasification, and general play of affinities ;''
nor is there any improbability in the belief,
that extremely sensitive constitutions may be
able to discern a lambent fla1ne accon1panying
tl1isaction, though altogether undiscoverable by
the ordinary observer. To put the matter to
the proof, professor Gregory induced a young
lady, who possessed this sensitiveness in a high
degree, to accompany him to a churchyard.
This lady saw on one of the graves an ap-
pearance of phosphoric light-a kind of "deli-
cate breathing flame'' marking its whole
length; and its repet.ition, in a weakened form,
on an adjacent grave. Being subsequently
carried to a burying-place in Vienna, where
interments were daily taking place, she saw the
same luminous appearances in all directions,,
Or1(j riitl 'rem
INDIANA UNIVERSITY
Di itiz by
82 ----fiMARKABLE DELUSIONS.
observing that they were specially vivid where
there were recent graves.
Perhaps, however, of all the narrations
regarding apparitions, there are none so strik-
ing as those which O\Yetheir existence to the
power of conscience.How that extraordinary
mental or moral power can excite the n1in<.l
into t}Je most vigorous action, can quicken
sensibility, can invigorate memory, can rouse
the imaginative faculties of the guilty, we need
scarcely tell. The sinner carries thus within
himself a phantasmagoric instrument of fearful
and portentous power. Would that criminals
could read the lesson which this f~ct teaches,
sometimes in lines of blood or of fire-" Be
sure your sin will find you out l"
It is astonishing how the slightest circum-
stance may, by this apparatus of mental torture,
become associated with the impressions which
lie uppermost within. One incident, related by
a late writer, will sufficiently illustrate this
division of our treatise:-
" It was about the eventful year 1800," says
the narrator, '' when the emperor Paul laid his
ill-judged embargo on British trade, that my
friend, on a journey to London, found himself
in company in the mail-coach with a seafaring
man, of middle age and respectable appearance,
who announced himself as a master of a vessel
in the Baltic trade, and sufferer by the e1n-
bargo. In the course of the desultory conver-
sation which takes place on such occasions, the
seaman observed, in compliance with a common
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
GIIOSTS. 83
superstition, ' I wish ·we may have good luck
on our voyage-there is a magpie.' ' And why
should that be unlucky ?' said my friend. ' I
cannot tell you that,' replied the sailor; ' but all
the world agrees that one magpie bodes ill-luck,
two are not so bad, but three are the worst
of all. I never saw three magpies but twice,
and once I had near lost my vessel, and the
second I fell from my horse and was hurt.' This
conversation led my friend to observe, that he
supposed he believed also in ghosts, since he
credited such auguries; ' And if I do,' said the
sailor, ' I may have my own reasons for doing
so ;' and he spoke this in a deep and serious
manner, in1plying that he felt deeply what he
was saying. On being further urged, he con-
fessed that, if he could believe his own eyes,
there was one ghost at least which he had seen
repeatedly. He then told his story as I now
relate it:-
Di itiz by
" Our mariner had in his youth gone mate
of a slave vessel from Liverpool, of which town
he seemed to be a native. The captain of the
vessel was a man of a variable temper, some-
times kind and courteous to his men, but sub-
ject to fits of humour, dislike, and passion,
during which he ,vas very violent, tyrannical,
and cruel. He took a particular dislike to one
sailor on board, an elderly man. He seldom
spoke to this person without threats and abuse,
,vhich the old man, with the license which
sailors take in merchant vessels, was very
apt toreturn. On one occasion, the latter
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
84 REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
appeared slow in getti~g out on the yard to hancl
a sail. The captain, according to custom, abused
the seaman as leaving his duty to other people.
The man made a saucy answer, almost amount-
ing to mutiny, on which, in a towering passion,
the captain ran down to his cabin, and returned
with a blunderbuss loaded with slugs, with
which he took a deliberate aim at the supp~sed
mutineer, fired, and mortally wounded him.
The man was handed down from the yard and
stretched on the deck, evidently dying. I-Ie
fixed his ·eyes on the captain, and saicl, ' Sir,
you have done for ·me, but I will never leave
you.'
" The captain pledged his crew to silence.
But after a time, the mate found them impressed
with the idea, not unnatural in their situation,
that the ghost of the dead man appeared among
them when they had a spell of duty, especially ir
a sail was to be handed, on which occasion the
spectre was sure to be out upon the yard before
any of the crew. The narrator had seen this
apparition himself repeatedly-he believed the
captain also saw it, but he took no notice of it
for some time, and the crew, terrified at the
violent temper of the man, dared not call his
attention to it. Thus, they held on their course
home,vard with great fear and anxiety.
"At length the captain invited the mate to
go down into the cabin with him. In this
interview he assumed a very grave and serious
aspect. ' I need not tell you, Jack,' he said,
'what sort of hand we have got on board with
g
. -
Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
GHOSTS. 85
us ; he told me he would ·never leave n1e,and
he has kept his word. You only see bim now
and then, but he is always by my side, and
never out of my sight. At this very moment
I see hin1. I am determined to bear it no
longer, and I have resolved to leave you.'
" The mate replied, that his leaving the
vessel ,vhile out of sight of any land was
impossible. He advised that, if the captain
apprehended any bad consequences from what
had happened, he should run for the west of
France or Ireland, and there go ashore, and
leave him, the mate, to carry the vessel
into Liverpool. The captain only shook his
head gloomily, and reiterated his determination
to leave the ship. At this moment, the mate
was called to the deck for some purpose er
other, and the instant he got up the companion
ladder he heard a splash in the water, and
looking over the ship's side, s~w that the
captain had thrown himself into the sea from the
quarter gallery, and was running astern at the
rate of six knots an hour. When just about to
sink, he seemed to make a last exertion, sprang
half out of the water, and clasped his hands
towards the mate, calling, ' Ah l he is with me
now !' and then ..
(tank to be seen no more."
Supposing the conversation to have been accu-
rately reporw<l, 1t is easy to imagine how the
superstition so comn1on among sailors should
have given rise to their belief in the re-appear-
ance of their deceased comrade. As regards
the principal actor in the story, his ren1orse
•
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
86 REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
for the crime he had perpetrated, and what we
have before alluded to as the pl1antasmagoric
power of conscience, are sufficient to account
for the results which followed, without calling
the supernatural into operation. An awful illus-
tration does it present of a poet's lines :-
" Guilt still appals,andconscience, ne'er asleep,
Wounds with incesaant strokes, not loud but deep;
While the vexed mind, its own tormentor, pliea
A scorpion scourge unseen by human eyes.,,
Similar instances to the above, magnified as
they would naturally be by the unthinking
and credulous, have often ·Jaid the foundations
of what have been regarded as incontrovertible
ghost stories. The impression made by such
narrations on minds of a certain order is
extremely enervating and deeply injurious.
Without entering upon the question as to the
possibility of such supernatural manifestations,
(a question which in this work we prefer to
waive,) we must regard the moral effects by
which similar alleged appearances are attended
as by no means such as to constitute an argu-
ment for the probability of their frequent
occurrence, for the most credulous are certainly
not those on whom apprehensions in regard to
spiritual being exert the most salutary practical
influence. The objects supposed to be accom-
plished by similar visitations are usually .so
trivial and even contemptible, as by no 1neans
to harmonize with the wisdom which ever
attends on Divine interpositions. When, too, it
is remembered in ho,v many minds thei:e
Di itiz y g a.1 glrial 'rom
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
DREAMS. 87
exists a strong predisposition to believe without
adequate evidence, and on how many 1nore a
diseased iu1agination exerts an influence posi-
tiv-ely disastrous, sufficient reasons exist why
we should be unusually slow in receiving such
wonders. They demand an an1ount of proof
which only the strongest evidence can afford.
Di itiz by
It is not wonderful if, an1ong the various
delusions which have taken possession of the
human mind, superstitions connected with
dreams should have prevailed extensively. As
dreaming was one of the modes by which
Divine and prophetical communications ,vere
made in ancient days from God to his creatures,
we can scarcely wonder that a supernatural
character in dreams should be supposed to
have survived the period in which they were
manifestly employed for the above purposes.
'fhere is something, also, so distinctive in the
sensations themselves-such a. mixture of the
novel with the familiar-and so vivid and
apparently real are the pictures on which the
eye of the mind rests, as to render the pheno-
mena of dreaming altogether peculiar. The
subject has accordingly been regarded with
awful interest ; and though dreams are in
ordinary cases nothing more than new com-
binations of previously existing ideas, and
therefore reflections of the past rather than
intimations of the future, they have been in
almost all ages identified with Divine influence.
Yet dreams which leave behind them the
strongest itnpressions, indicate only some dis-
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
88 RE.MARK.ABLE
DELUSIONS.
turbance of the physical system, and are rather
proofs of the need of medical treatment than
prophecies of events to come.
]?reams are not, as they may be supposed
to be, absolutely uncontrollable. Dr. Beattie
relates one of his dreams, in which he supposed
himself to be in a situation of the utmost
.danger on the parapet of a high bridge. He
possessed, however, sufficient consciousness to
be aware that this position was not altogether
real, and to disabuse himself of the delusion,
he resolved to precipitate himself from the emi-
nence, in order to destroy the uncomfortable
sensations of which he was conscious. Dr. Reid,
also, who, during a certain period of his life,
was, whilst asleep, oppressed by successions of
painful imagery, took a decided course to divest
himself of the recurrent terrors. Before he
slept, he endeavoured to impress upon his
mind the conviction that Jiis dangers would be
altogether imaginary, and when the moment of
illusion came, he attempted to bring on the
crisis which he seemed instinctively to dread.
He thus. gradual1y dispossessed himself of the
phantasms, and regained ease and tranquillity.
That dreams have sometimes remarkably
corresponded with subsequent facts, it would be
useless, and more than useless, to deny. Yet it
does not thence follow that such dreams have
been supernatural. Such is the nature of the
association of ideas in the human mind, that a
forgotten event will sometimes only be recalled
by some circumstance ,•rhich stood in very near
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
DREAMS. 89
relation to it, not till then will the event itself
occur to the memory. Dr. Abercrombie
relates, that on one occasion he met a lady
whom he was aware of having seen before,
though he could not recall her name nor the
circumstances of their previous interview.
When visiting a certain spot., however, with
,vhich the memory of that lady bad been con-
joined, the wholetruth flashed upen him. Such
occurrences are not unusual, and ,vhen applied
to dreams, may explain a certain class of phe-
nomena. which would be otherwise inex-
plicable.
" A gentleman of the law in Edinburgh bad
mislaid an important paper connected with the
conveyance of a property which was to be settled
on a particular day. Most anxious search had
been made for it for many days, but the evening
of the day previous to that on which the parties
\'\'ereto meet for the final settle1nent had arrived
,vithout the paper being discovered. The son
of the gentleman then went to bed under much
anxiety and disappointment, and dreamed that
at the time when the missing paper was deli-
vered to his father, his table was covered with
papers connected with the affairs of a particular
client. He woke under the impression ; went
immediately to a box appropriated to the
papers of that client, and there found the
paper they had been in search of, which had
been tied up by mistake in a parcel to which it
was in no way related."
Here was a forgotten circumstance recalled,
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
90 REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
in all probability, by the kindred association
which revived the remembrance in sleep ;
though owing to that association never having
been excited in a waking state, the result
seemed to be the effect of a supernatural
enlightenment.
Th~ pheno1nena of somnambulism are refer-
able to those of dreams, a more intense-state of
excitement being only superadded. The acts
of talking in sleep, of walking about as ·ir
perfectly awake, and of performing other
actions in a manner precisely similar to ordi-
nary ones, are familiar to every reader. But
the subject is altogether so wide and difficult,
that we can only give to it in these pages
a transient reference.
The absurd oracles by which dreams are
professedly interpreted would be scarcely wor-
thy of a moment's notice, were it not that they
frequently delude the unwary and unstable.
The following are specimens :-To dream you
see a stack of corn burned signifies famine and
mortality.-To dream of little rain and drops of
,vater is good for ploughmen.-'f o take flies
signifies wrong and injury, etc., etc. But these
are by no means the worst specimens ; and to
quote more would be a task equally insuffer-
able to the writer, and uninteresting (we hope)
to the reader. \Ve would fain believe that the
taste for the little books which feed such
frivolous and often depraved fancies is fast
passing a,vay.
Should any of our readers entertain the
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
DREAMS. - 91
opinion; that on the subject which we have been
discussing "it is necessary to caution against
undue scepticism as well as against undue
credulity ,"-instead of engaging in unprofitable
controversy, we would rather draw a~tention to
the practical lessons which are deducible from
the topic under examination. The grounds on
which the Christian will withhold his belief as
to the suspension of the laws of nature in cases
similar to those adduced above, will· entirely
differ fr01n those adopted by the unbeliever.
While the latter ignorantly dreams that these
laws cannot be suspended, the other will
ren1ember that the same Bfling who ordained
them can at any time, when his wisdom sees
fit, temporarily interrupt their action. He will
reasonably expect, however, that the occasions
when the laws of nature shall be so suspended
will be such as to demand miraculous interpo-
sition, and not minister merely, to credulity
God, it is true, might send a messenger from
the dead to warn a sinner of his guilt; but while
~Ioses and the prophets remain, we have no
Seri ptural grounds to expect such a course. He
might still, as of old, in visions of the night
open to his creatures the good pleasure of his
will, but the path of duty is to look for such
revelation in the pages of his word. In conclu-
sion, be it remembered, Onehas appeared from
the invisible world conversant with all its
solemn mysteries. To his revelations, consist-
ing as they do of pure essential truth, it is no
less our duty than our wisdom to listen. The
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
92 REMAP-.KABLE
DELUSIONS.
necessity of repentance from dead works-the
proclamation of remission of sins through faith
in his blood-,vere the tidings which he pro-
claimed. Abandoning vain unhallowed prying
into things unseen, may the reader cordially
embrace the true light thus graciously afforded
him, to guide his path from time to eternity !
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
WITCHCRAFT. 93
CHAP'rER VI.
DELUSIONS CONNECTED WITH THE BELIEF IN
WITCHCRAFT.
Witchcraft forbidden by the law of God-Origin of the ancient
magical practices-Familiar arts used to promote them-
The being supposed to preside over witchcraft-Legendary
tales-Other absurdities- Laws directed against witchcraft
-Joan of Arc-Burning of witches-The witches of War-
boys-Lady Glammis-Forel-John Knox-Gellie Duncan
and others - " Discoverie of Witchcraft" -James 1. -
Matthew Hopkins - Witches' bridJe- Alice Kyteler -
Influence of the imagination.
TnE narratives relating to witchcraft furnish
a singular chapter in the history of human
credulity. The instinctive tendencies of the
1nind towards religion are shown in nothing
1nore than in the fact, that errors of a 1·eligious
type are the most deeply rooted of all which
possess the mind of man. 'fhe spirit which the
gospel breathes is emphatically a "spirit of
love." It was in the love of God to fallen men
that the scheme of redemption originated. Love
was the chief feature of the Saviour's cha-
racter while on earth, and love is the temper
that should distinguish his followers. Among
nominal professors in all ages, .however, a car-
nal spirit, clothing itself under the disguise
of zeal for the honour of God, has often pre~
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
94: REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
vailed, manifesting itself in evil and bitter
fruits. Even real Christians have too often,
from unwatchfulness, been betrayed into the
same spirit, and have exchanged the meekness
and gentleness of their Divine Pattern for the
gratification of unlovely and unholy tempers.
To causes such as these, acting in combination
with the ign(?rance peculiar to the times, and
erroneous interpretations of the word of God,
must, we fear, be largely attributed many of
the dark passages which stain the annals of this
and other European countries in connexion
with the subject of witchcraft.
That laws were enacted against ·witchcraft
by the book of God is n1ost clear ; but tl1eir
enactment would have been equally important
and necessary whether witchcraft ,vere a fallacy
or a reality. In the former case, it would,
by its assumption of power belonging to the
Divinity alone-by its professed alliance with
influences not those of the Holy One-by its
association with crimes which disgrace and de-
grade-and by its establishment oyer mind of
an empire always base and disastrous, have
constituted a crime sufficient to give rise to
the command from God, '' Thou shalt not
suffer a witch to live." The visible association
of witchcraft with all that is criminal in human
history is, apart fron1 verbal criticism, a suffi-
cient explanation of the solemn injunction ;
while it is enough that God saw fit to give
t.liis command to the Jews. The professed
witch was son1etimes a pander to evil, often
o. poisoner, always a criminal. She was
8
Or1<;JI
r~ 'rom
INDIANA UNIVERSrTY
WITCHCRAFT. 96
resorted tu by the basest of society-the dark
and desperate in character and habits. No form
of polity, perhaps, could, in that age, with im-
punity tolerate such beings, and least of all
that economy which provided for the external
purity of the chosen nation with such jealous
care. Nor can there be any doubt that n1any
of the appearances related by the consulters ot
witches were occasioned by the intoxicating
and often poisonous potions or perfumes which
they administered.
But whether the command quoted above be
addressed to the Gentile equally with the Jew,
or whether the cases of supposed witchcraft
,vere those which ·possessed proof enough to
bring them under the letter of the Divine
command, are questions which materially affect
the whole subject. There is abundant evidence
that the allegation of a compact with the evil
one, by which the minds of men were so ex-
tensively influenced a hundred years ago, were
destitute of that proof which would entitle them
to respect and regard.
Nothing can be more clear than that a large
proportion of the ancient magical practices
arose fro1n the possession of physical secrets,
kno,vn only to the initiated. The repeated
stories respecting books, and their use in magi-
cal incantations, confirm this conclusion. These
books, though couched in mysterious and hiero-
. glyphic characters, contained, in fact, experi-
ments in natural philosophy ; their contents
being,probably, not very dissimilar from those
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
96 REMAUKABLE
DELUSIONS.
now perused by the first students of natural
phenomena. A name for magical power being
once gained, the greatest pains were taken to
keep up the reputation. Sinan Raschid-Eddin,
chief of the Ishmaelites of Syria, apparently
performed the miracle of making a decapitated
head speak. How was it managed ? 'l'he
explanation is very simple. A large bole was
dug in the ground, into which the body of a
pupil was thrust, and the head appearing above
ground, was surrounded by a dish of bronze,
having the appearance of a basin of _blood.
When the poor victim had, as by previous
agreement, delivered the message he was in-
&tructed to convey, he was killed to preserve
the secret.
In these pretend~ magical appearances,
many arts, perfectly familiar in our day, were
used with great sec:resy. Ventriloquism was,
doubtless, extensively employed. Auton1ata.
were not infrequent ; jugglery very comn1on;
burning mirrors and telegraphs seem to have
been also familiar. Optics, including the
magic lantern and camera obscura, interposed
their illusions; whilst the then ascertained
discoveries of chemistry, hydrostatics, an4
acoustics, conspired to delude the ignorant
spectator. Nor must it be forgo~ten that drugs,
odours, and unguents, were often freely used in
preparing the inquirer for the wonders to be
revealed to him.
It would be impossible, within a brief com-
pass, to convey to the reader a due notion or
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
WITCHCRAFT. 97
the various ranks and degrees of demons once
supposed to exert a mysterious influence. The
being who was supposed to preside over witch-
craft. was no fallen archangel, " great, though
ruined," full of the pride by which he fell, but a
strange compound of wickedness and vulgarity-
a trickster-a cheat-an idle vagrant-a low
buffoon-totally unlike that powerful, though
malignant b~ng, represented in the Scripture
as " the prince of the power of the air-the
spirit that now worketh in the children of dis- ·
obedience." In conceiving of such a being as
that represented by the believers in witchcraft,
the spiritual character of sin is entirely lost,
the nature of the human soul infinitely de•
graded, and all those solemn warnings neutral•
ized by which Scripture has cautioned us to
watch against the devices ofSatan, as a being
full of malignity and subtlety. Some of the
legendary tales of St. Anthony, or those of
Nostradamus, (who, having made himself over
to the devil's influence, in case of his being
buried in or out of the church, escaped the
alternative by giving directions that he should
be interred in a chul'ch wa11,) are degrading
to the religion, the sacred name of which
sheltered such profanations. It is a trite
remark, that a despised enemy is seldom a
dreaded one ; and these ludicrous distortions
of the nature and character of the great enemy
of souls must, doubtless, be ranked as among
devices of his own fostering, by which he, who
was
a deceiver from the beginning, seeks to
Di itiz by
g
D
Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
98
.
nEMAFKABLEDELUSIONS.
delude his victims into forgetfulness of their
danger.
Other absurdities followed in the wake of
this leading one. The air swarmed with
demons, whose antic tricks,though the relation
of them proyokes modern disdain, were sources
of real terror to om· forefathers. Spainboasted
of a school of witchcraft, where the malignant
arts, interdicted by the church, were eagerly
pursued. It is inconceivable what a succession
of laws were directed against this imaginary
crime. The Anglo-Saxon decretals of Edward
and Guthnun declare-" If witches or diviners,
perjurers or morth-workers, or foul, defiled, or
notorious adulteresses, be found anywhere
within the land, let them be driven from the
country and the people cleansed, or let them
totally perish within the country unless they
desist." Accusations of witchcraft were the
most serious charges preferred against the
Knights 'femplars at the suppression of their
order, and fifty-nine of these knights were for
this crime roasted in Paris before a slow fire.
Till the fourteenth century, however, the
punishment of witchcraft belonged rather to
the. secular than to the ecclesiastical power. It
was afterwards dealt out, by special accusation,
against heretics. In 1406, Henry 1v.gave
directions to the bishop of Norwich to discover
and destroy sorcerers. During the same
century, charges of witchcraft were extensively
brought by political parties against their ad-
versaries. We see this in the cases of the
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
WITCHCRAFT. 99
duchess of Gloucester, (temp. Hen. vr.,) the
duchess of Bedford, (temp. Hen. IV.,)and lord
Hastings and Jane Shore, (temp. Richard
m.)
The heroism of Joan of Arc has been often
related, and is well known. Prompted by heads
more cunning than her own, she yielded herself
to the influence of a fallacious enthusiasm,
which, at the time of the invasion of France by
England, was rapidly imparted t,o others, and
roused the flagging spirits ora depressed nation,
though it ended in Joan's miserable death.
When captured by the English, she was accused
of having attended nightly meetings of <;lemons
near Domprine. It was stated that she con-
stantly carried about her person the magical
plant called mandrake. Shewas declared to
possess a miraculous sword, to employ charmed
banners, and to have seduced the king of
.France and the duke of Bourbon by means of
evil spirits. To these accusations the innocent,
but deluded young woman fell a victim, and
was burned for sorcery.
In the beginning of the fifteenth century, the
burning of witches greatly increased, and it was
convenient for the Roman Catholics to charge
the Waldenses with the crime. During the next
century, also, many suft'ered under this accusa- · ·
tion. In 1515, five hundred persons were
burned in Geneva under the name of witches,
but really for the crime of heresy. In 1524, a
thousand persons suirered for the same offence
in Como ; and one inquisitor alone boasted that
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
l UU REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
in the course of fifteen years he had destroyed
nine hundred.
The glories of the Reformation in England
were considerably diminished by the severe
laws passed and executed by Protestants against
this imaginary oifence. A law of Elizabeth,
in 1562, declared witchcraft; to be a capital
crime. Thirty-two years after this enactment
occurred the case of the witches of Warboys,
Hunts. Its particulars were the following:-
Two families lived in ,varboys, those of sir
Samuel Cromwell and of Mr. Throgmorton.
One of the daughters of the former, who had
already a great deal of credulity on the sub-
ject, and who was liable to fits, declared that
when passing the cottage of mother Samuel,
(an old and forbidding-looking woman,) she
:fixed her eyes intently upon .her. She imme-
diately imagined herself bewitched, and her
terror not only became contagious through all
her family, but communicated itself to the
neighbouring one of the Cromwells. The re-
puted witch was seized and tormented, and,
under the provocation of her sufferings, she
uttered an imprecation against her persecutors.
Lady Cromwell happened to die about this
period, and the event was considered an un-
doubted consequence of mother Samuel's male-
diction, especially when it was remembered
that the deceased lady had often dreamed of a
black cat. She was now assailed by universal
suspicion, until she began to believe (an event
not in those days uncommon) that she herself
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
WITCHCRAFT. 101
was really guilty of the crimes with which she
was charged. Being in Mr. 'fhrogmorton's -~-
house at a time when his daughter was in fits,
the old woman repeated an exorcism dictated
to her. She and her family ,vere brought to ti-ial
for the bewitching of the young ladies, and for
causing the death of lady Crom,vell. When
put to the torture, the mother repeated her
acknowledgn1ents of witc~craft; her children,
however, strenuously denied the charge ; but
they were all condemned to be burned, and were
executed April 7th, 1598.
The peruser of the criminal trials of the Scot-
tish judicature will ascertain that charges of
witchcraft occupy a considerable space in these
annals. Janet, lady Glammis, was celebrated
for her personal beauty and her virtues. By
the death of lord Glammis she was left a widow
with one son. Her hand was subsequently
sought by William Lyon, a relation of l1er first
husband. This man, when he saw the object of
his attention married to Archibald Campbell,
began to regard her _with deadly hatred, and
accused her ofthe treason ofendeavouring totake
away "king James v. his life by witchcraft."
For this· crime she ,vas burned, amidst the
general sympathy of the people. At the same
period, dean Thomas Fore), vicar of Dolour, ,vas
similarly accused; his crime being that he bad
taught his parishioners the paternoster, the
creed, and the ten commandments in English,
" contraire to all oure acts that they suld knawe
whatthey say." The accused produced a copy
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
102 REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
of the English Scriptures as his authority,
which act was regarded as the strongest· aggra-
vation of his guilt. He was burned at the
Castle Hill of Edinburgh.•
. The like accusation was brought against the
celebrated Scottish reformer, John Knox. The
charge, however, seems not to have been
prosecuted.
James 1. of England took, whil~t in Scotland,
great interest in the trial of witches. He often
attended the criminal proceedings, and himself
wrote a well-known book on the subject. One
of t.he trials at which he was present was that
of Gellie Duncan, Dr. Fian, and others, in 1591.
Gellie Duncan being put to the torture, confessed
that she had sold her soul to the devil, and
that on the occasion of the marriage of the king
to the princess of Denmark, she had by sorcery
raised the storm which endangered the life of
the royal pair. The tortures undergone by
Dr. Fian, who was tried at the same time for a
similar offence, were excruciating. Though he
,vas a man of infamous character, he resolutely
denied this imputation. The application of the
boot caused him to swoon. Then, with returning
consciousness, he signed a paper, declaring
himself an accomplice with Gellie Duncan. He
afterwards escaped from his prison, but was re-
captured. When brought again before the
court of justiciary, the king himself ordered his
torture, ,vhich was of the most cruel description.
That some of these persons actually meditated
g
* Pitcairn'• Scottish Criminal Trials.
Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
WITCHCRAFT, 108
the king's death is not improbable. When the
jury delivered in their verdict they acquitted
one of the prisoners. But the king, extremely
displeased, compelled them to retract that part
of their finding. Twenty-nine were sentenced,
first to be hanged and then burned. But one
of the number, Euphemia Macalgan, who was
proved guilty of poisoning, and who had been,
moreover, a partisan of the notorious earl oi
Bothwell, was bound to a stake, and burned
'.'quick to the death."
InReginald Soot's "Diacoverie of Witchcraft,"
(1584) wefind the following observations, which
considerably elucidate some of the occurrences
relating to this subject: " The sort of such as
are said to be witches, are women which be
commonly old, lame, blear-eyed, pale, fowle,
and full of wrinkles-poore, sullen, supersti-
tious." The same author gives an acco1mt of
" the order of examjnation of witches by the
inquisitors." This we must curtail. Suspected
women must not be allowed to go home after
their apprehension. Great persuasions must be
used to induce others to accuse them. Im•
munities must be largely promised to witches
who confess and accuse others. The children
of witches must be attached, and if they be
craftily handled will confess against their own
mothers. Witches must be examined ·as sud-
denly as possible, and the inquisitor must begin
with smaller matters first, aoas to throw them
oiF their guard. The examiner must look
1tedfutly into their eyes. They must be
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
104: REMARKABLEDELUSIONS.
examined of all accusations, presu\Dptions, and
faults, at one instant. A witch must not be
imprisoned alone. To secure confession, the
judge must put on a pitiful countenance, saying
that it was not she, but the devil in her. If
the accused be hardened against comn1on tor-
tures, an exquisitely cruel one ii to be adopt.ed.
At the time of the examination, a number of
instruments, grieves, manacles, and apparatus
of torture must be exhibited before her eyes.
If the prisoner will not confess, the inquisitor
must declare that she has been accused by
others, and then perhaps she will confess out of
revenge. Presumptions and conjectures are
sufficient proofs. A perjured person is a good
and lawful witness. If a woman's child die, no
matter ho,v, witchcraft is to be presumed unless
the contrary be provecl. If the parents of a
suspected person be witches, it is a strong
presumption that the children are so too. It
is a vehement suspicion if the witch cannot
weep at the time of her examination; and yet,
Bodin saith, that a witch may shed three drops
out of her right eye. It is more than suspicion
-it is evident proof-if a man or beast die
suddenly where a person accused of being a
witch bath been seen lately. Little children
may be exposed to the torture, etc. It
will not greatly surprise the reader, if, amidst
this apparatus of all kinds of torture, bodily and
mental, it has been calculated that, during a
period of thirty-nine years, ·in the six-
teenth century, the average number of annual
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
WITCIICRAJT. 105
executions for this crime, in Scotland alone,
amounted to two hundred.
Nor can it be regarded as marvellous, if, thus
treated, infirm or semi-insane persons often
made " confessions" of the imputed crimes. " I
went once," says sir George Mackenzie," when
I was justice depute, to eJramine some women
that had confessed judicially, and one of them
who was a sickly creature told me, under
secresie, that she had not confessed because she
was guilty, but, being a poor creature who
wrought for her meat, and being defamed for a
witch, she knew she would starve; for no person
hereafter would give her food and lodging, and
that all men would beat her and set dogs at her,
and that therefore she desired to be out of the
world." It is related by one who was himself
a believer in witchcraft, that another forlorn
creature, when about to be led to the stake,
declared," I am as free of witchcraft as any
child; but being delated by a malicious wo-
man, and put in prison under the name of a
witch, disowned by my husband and friends,
and seeing no ground of hope of ever coming
out again, I made up that confession to de-
stroy my own life, being weary of it, and
choosing rather to die than live.~' Many
similar instances nre upon record. Delrio states,
that a gentleman in Westphalia was tortured
twenty times, in order to make him confess
that he was a wolf. He persisted in refusing,
till an intoxicating draught was administered,
when he acknowledged that the charge was
Di itiz by
g
D2
Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
106 REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
true. Delrio quotes this as an instance of " the
clemency
of thecriminaljudges!" Another witch
confessed herself to be guilty of imputed crimes
after four hours' torture; and, in another case,
a little child, nine years of age, was subjected
to a similar process in order that she might ac-
cuse her mother. Is it wonderful that, predis-
posed as these poor creatures were to believe
in the reality of spiritual possessions, they
should, in such extremities, ackno,vledge the
crimes suggested to them by their judges ?
It would be unfair, ho,vever, not to state that
there are .instances of confession in which no
tortures were actually applied. But then, were
not such tortures apprehended ?
The zeal of James 1. against witches accom-
panied him on his accession to the throne of
England. His first parliament passed an enact-
ment, that where witchcraft was proved, the
punishment for the first offence should be
imprisonment and the pillory, and for the
second,death. An enormous number ofvictims
(said to amount to five hundred annually) was
sacrificedduring the prevalence of this infatua-
tion. The contagion was carried by those ,vho
~ere expatriated by their religious opinions
mto New England, 1n which land great num-
bers perished-a disgrace to those who had
sacrificed home through their desire for greater
freedom.
No man was ever so notorious in accusing
others of this crime as Matthew Hopkins, a
native of the town of Manningtree, Essex. He
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
· W.trtmCBAFT. 107
was entitled . "witch-finder general," and was
certainly "by merit raised to that bad emi-
nence." Was there in any quarter an old, poor,
ill-favoured, and unprotected woman, disliked
by any of her neighboms-Hopkins was the
foremost in bringing her into suspicion as a
witch. If, on the body of this person, there
were, as is usual with aged persona, wens, or
callous parts, his sharpinstruments were always
at hand to probe them; and if the blind-folded
victim, agonized by the terror which often
destroys sensitiveness, or confused into insensi-
bility, could not name the precise spot which
had been operated upon, so much the worse for
the accused. It was Hopkins who tied the
victim, hands and feet together cross-wise, for
the trial by the water into whic4 she was
thrown. If she swam, she was unque.stionably
guilty; if she sank,• shewas sometimes saved;
but if lost, she left to her friends the conviction
of her innocence. Hopkins was constantly
crusading about upon this errand, till at length
he, who had. stimulated the people's phrenzy,
became in turn (aa not unfrequently happens)
its victim. His own tests were tried upon
himself, and he suifered for the crime of which
he hadso extensively accusedothers.
The death of .this man had probably some
influence in abatingthis epidemical infection ;
:,et bow slowly this cruel prejudice declined
• The doctrine of this practice wu, that aa the witch had
ahaken o1f the water of baptism, that elemeut refused to
llceivetbitcrhpiv 1illto 1wtiGlaaa
Di itiz y g a.1 glrial 'rom
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
108 REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
may be learned from the fact, tha~ even in the
last century, especially in Scotland, there were
many persons accused on similar charges.
In the parish church of Forfar there still is,
or was until lately, an instrument called the
witches' bridle. Chambers thus describes it :
" A small circle of iron, sufficient to inclose the
head, is divided into four sections, which are
connected by hinges ; ashort chain hangs from
behind. In the front, but pointing inwards,
is a prong, like to the rowel of an old-fashioned
spur, which entered the mouth, and, by depress-
ing the tongue, acted as a kind of gag. The use
of the thing was exactly what the name por-
tends. By it, as with a bridle, the unfortunate
old ,vomen, formerly burned at Forfar for the
imaginary crime of witchcraft, were led out of
town to the place of execution. Its further and
more important purposes were to bind the
culprit to the stake, and to prevent her cries
during the dreadful process of death. When
all was over, the bridle used to be found among
the ashes of the victim."• A sil:nilar instru-
ment is exhibited in the Museum of Antiquaries
in Edinburgh.
One of the most detailed trials extant on the
subject of sorcery may be seen in a volume
pubiished by the Camden Society, eniitled,
" Proceedings against Dame Alice Kyteler for
Sorcery," in 1824. This, and the trial of the
two Despensers, who were accused of an attempt
g
• Chambers'•"Traditionaof Scotland."
Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
WITCHCRAFT. 109
to bewitch James 1.,are perhaps the most
remarkable in history. It was with great diffi-
culty that the oifenders were brought to trial, -
since the Irish lord chancellor (the offence was
committed in that country) was a relative of one
of ~he parties. Lady Alice escaped to England.
After having been six times :flogged, one of
the culprits acknowledged the crimes charged
against her lady, and avowed herself an accom-
plice. She was the first person burned in
Ireland as a witch.
It would be gratifying to be able to state
that these delusions of witchcraft were mainly
the offspring of the darker ages ; at least to
defend Protestantism against their enormities.
But truth forbids. The period of enlightenment
after ages of ignorance, has, as we have already
observed, usually abounded in sitnilar errors.
But this is only an extenuation, not an apology.
No papist can on this subject throw the first
stone, seeing that ·the Romanist is nearly, i£
not entirely, involved in the same error. But
if it shall be expected that Protestantism sh(?uld
have shown, in this respect as well as others,
its own superiority, we can only say-too true !
Yet we may plead, and plead triumphantly,
that the reformed religion has nobly redeemed its
first errors, and that wherever there is a country
in which n1en have outlived such deadly super-
stitions, and in which some real approach is made
to "the perfect law of liberty," that country is
assuredly Protestant l Let us not be under-
stood
asclaiming for the professors of that reli-
Di itiz y g a.1 glrial 'rom
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
110 REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
gion a freedom at all times from mistakes. We
only assert on their behalf that their mistakes
possess in the Scriptures, which they delight to
circulate, a c~rrecting power.
Before we leave the subject of supernatural
agency, we must make one passing remark,
in addition to those contained in our previous
chapter. Nothing can be more unfa,ir and
unphilosopbieal than the manner in which the
whole question is often treated. Even if the
narrations which obtain credence were much
better attested than they are-were there no
room for suspicion that the imagination is largely
concerned in them-and were we entirely satis-
fiedthat more patient attention would have added
nothing to the alleged facts themselves, one
thing is to be remembered-what is une.'eplained
is notnecessarily
supernatural. To assert other-
wise would be to deny the whole history of
science and philosophy. .
. It is also very important to observe, how
fatal an influence is exerted upon the human
character, and upon none more than on the
female part of it, by the undue cultivation of
the imagination. The progress of the mental
history of some beings is analogous to that of
the drunkard. Excess creates demand, and
demand increases excitement, till all is undone.
The imaginative process begins with amiable
sensibility, which must be fed by gossip,
novels, and narrations of wonder ; it degene-
rates into a greedy aching after tales of murder
or suicide, and ends in a compound of tears,
8
Or1<;JI
r~ 'rom
INDIANA UNIVERSrTY
•
Di itiz y
WITCHCRAFT. 111
hysterics, convulsions, and credulity. Out of
such specimens have often come the devotees,
who have transformed Christ's invigorating and
holy religion into the system which consists in
kneeling before a crucifix, macerating the
body by fasts and ~gils, and gazing upon a
skull.
But let it not be forgotten that there are
other possessions, not consisting in the influ-
ence of imagination, but too real, and deadly
as they are real. The conceived lust leading
to the first presumptuous sin ; the search for
new guilt to hide the presence of the original
crime ; the habitual yielding to transgression,
at first timidly and secretly, but at length
openly and flagrantly; the throwing off of
shame ; the rejection of God ; the seduction of
others;• -these are the successive links of a
chain bound too securely round the hearts and
consciences of a thousand victims, and possibly
binding some even of those who may have
looked into these pages. If, reader, this be
thy case, hasten to the footstool of mercy, that
thus thou mayest obtain strength to throw off
the degrading influences that enslave thee. No
voice but that before which evil spirits of old
fled away can disenchant thee. Cast thyself
as a humble penitent at His feet, and in earnest
fervent prayer implore that Divine aid which
can make thee more than conqueror over all
the powers of darkness.
g a.1 glrial 'rom
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
J J.~ Ut;AlAlU\.AJ:S.LJ!, l).t,l.,U~:uv.1.·u,.
CHAPTER VIL
DELUSIONS CONNECTED WITH THE BELIEF IN
ASTROLOGY.
Origin of the art-Antiquity-Its practice forbidden in the
early ~ea of Christianity-Alonzo of Caatile-Astrological
predict1ons-Failurea-Charle1 x1.-Cbarlea 1. and 11. of
England-Dr. Simon Forman-David Ramsay and John
Scott-Lilly-Kepler-Francia Moore.
Tm: scope and objects of a work like this
preclude us from entering upon the subject of
fairy superstitions, though once extremely pre-
valent, especially in Scotland, and still exerting
a wonderful influence over the minds of the
ignorant peasantry of the south of Ireland.
Nor can we devote any space to many arts of
divination practised among various nations at
different periods, especially among the mys-
terious descendants of the gipsy tribe, and
still believed in by the ignorant and credulous.
But among the self-called sciences pretending
to a knowledge of futurity, one subject may
merit a more detailed notice.
Astrology was the art which professed to
discover the course of human fortunes from the
appearance of the stars. As it took its rise
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
ASTROLOGY 118
from astronomy, whils·t astronomy was in its
imperfect state, it might have been legitimately
classed with some of the contents of a former
chapter ; but as it soon outran all scientific
bounds, till it became a mass of delusion and
artifice, and was afterwards lost, ~s a practice,
in the oblivion it merited, it will not be incor-
rectly placed among the subjects of the present
division. So ancient is this art that history
does not record its first applications. It was
from a remote antiquity practised in the east,
where it still holds an undisputed sway. 'l'he
Chaldmans, the Chinese, the Hindoos, are all
under the influence of its fascination. It was
known to the Egyptians, and is referred to in
the sacred writings under the general de-
scriptions of magic and sorcery. The Rab-
binical Jews were much devoted to it. From
the time of the adoption of Egypt into the
Roman empire it was greedily cultivated by
the Romans. Greece alone stands, among
ancient nations, an exception to its use. None,
however, have observed it with more assiduity
than the Mohammedan nations.
Di itiz y
The early ages of Christianity regarded
astrology as a forbidden science. In those dark
volumes which, bearing the name of "the
fathers," stand on the lower shelves of the
learned and the curious, may be found not a
few passages describing the processes and de-
nouncing the practice of this dark art. Ter-
tullian protests against it. Basil declain1supon
it with his usual eloquence. These men did
g a.1 glrial 'rom
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
114 REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
not see .that the future discoveries of astro-
nomical science would take root in its delusions;
they only saw that it professed an unwarrant-
able interference with the secrets of the Most
High. Nor were their objections illegitimate.·
Men have been prone in all ages to wrest the
attributes of God to an evil purpose, and to use
then1 for their own interested and servile ends.
By none, in a later period, was the study 01
astrology more assiduously cultivated than by
Alonzo of Castile. He summoned an assembly
of the wisest astrologers of his day, who spent
five years in deliberation on the processes and
results of their science. It was during the six-
teenth and seventeenth centuries, however, that
the practice of astrology in Britain arrived at its
greatest eminence. Some of the astrological
prescriptions which have. come down to us
from that time savour strongly of the ridiculous.
Charles x1.(of Bartholomew notoriety) consulted
an astrologer. He was told that he would live
as many days as he could turn on his heels in
an hour. The hint was sufficient. Every
morning, for an hour, the monarch performed
the part of a spindle-the courtiers revolving
on their axes in compliment to his majesty.
Astrology ·was much truswd by Charles 1.
and Charles n. of England; and the former,
when in captivity, consulted an astrologer as to
the period most favourable for his intended
escape from it. If the science of the adept were
worth anything, the king must have greatly
misread the advice he received.
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
ASTROLOGY. 115
In the reign of James 1.,
Dr. Simon Forman
was a celebrated practitioner of this science.
He appears to have exhibited a eingul:r mix-
ture of knavery and folly, the latter ingredient
being perhaps predominant. He relates that,
as he was lying in bed one morning, the
question occurred to him-Whether he should
ever become a lord ? He had recourse to his
horoscope thereon, and ascertained that he
should attain that honour in the couse of two
years. But there must have been some griev-
ous mistake in his calculations ; for he tells us,
with marvellous simplicity, " before the two
years were expired, the doctors put me in
Newgate, and nothing came." This was almost
enough to have disgusted him with his science,
but his credulity survived it. Again his horo-
scope promised him that he should be a great
lord within a year. But during that year he
"had no preferment at all." His predictions
on behalf of his neighbours were equally
fallible. A knight, being about to leave ~g-_
land for Turkey, inquired of the astrologer
whether his expedition would be successful.
The doctor, having consulted the stars, assured
him it would. But the dream seems to have
been one meant to be taken· by contraries ; for
the consulter "was taken prisoner in Turkey,
and lost all." Again, Forman read the stars,
and believed that he should discover the philo-
sopher's stone. But the same stars turned their
backs upon him again ; for he complains that
all came to nothing. These things are related
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
116 REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
by his pupil and successor Lilly, a practitioner
of no small eminence in his day, who says,
moreover, that Forman predicted of another
pupil, Dr. Napper of Linford, that he would
turn out a dunce, instead of which he becaine
a celebrated astrologer and physician-" a con-
summation which," says a Quarterly Reviewer,
" might, perhaps, approach to an accomplish-
ment of the prophecy."
Nor were the above the only instances in
which the astrological predictions of that day
proved untrue. Lilly relates that David Ram-
say, his majesty's clockrnaker, having learned
from the stars, or otherwise, that there was a
quantity of treasure lying hid in the cloister of
Westmins~r Abbey, entered into partnership
with John Scott and himself, to profit by its
exhun1ation. They met accordingly on a ,vin-
ter's night, David Ramsay bringing a sack to
receive the substance. They dug to the depth
of six feet, when they met with a coffin, and
because it seemed light they did not open it,
" which," says Lilly, "we afterwards much
repented." But in the midst of their labours
there arose a wind so high and fierce, that
they feared that the end of the abbey would fall
upon them. John Scott, we are told, grew pale
and nervous, but Lilly managed to dismiss the
evil influences ; yet the money-diggers returned
as empty as they came. On another occasion,
a noted astrologer predicted that there would be
a great wind ; but as no such phenomenon
oocurred, it was afterwards discovered that the
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
ASTROLOGY. 117
horoscope might be referring to state revo-
lutions, abundance of which happened about
that period.
Yet, in spite of all failures, astrology retained
its hold. A poet of the century thus satirizes
the111, having perhaps Lilly himself promi-
nently in view-
" To whom all people far andnear
On deep importances repair,
When brass or pewter hap to stray,
And linen slinks out of the way;
When cattle feel indisposition,
And need tb' opinion of pbyaician;
When murrain reigns in bop and 1beep,
And chickens languish of the pip."
Lilly boasts that some great men among the
Independents and Presbyterians patronized his
art. It is certain, however, by his own com-
plaints, that some of the greatest eminence did
not ; for he tells us that Dr. Owen, Mr. Gataker,
and Mr. Nye, denounced his pretensions as
foolish and impious. He took his revenge
by vehemently denouncing Gataker. Lilly's
knavery was strongly supported. He relates
that, when in Scotland, he saw a soldier stand-
ing in front of the army encouraging the men
to expect victory, because LilJy in his book
had prognosticated it.
Among other pretensions, Lilly professed to
give the true interpretation of the prophecies of
Merlin, and many pages of his memoirs are
addressed to the elucidation of these '' dark
sayings." But his greatest fame was derived
· from· a work published in 1651, entitled
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
1.U:S REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
" Monarchy, or No Monarchy." lri this book he
had given a hieroglyphic, which 1 like others of
that class, might be resolved literally or em-
blematically, as the event might be. He says, " I
had framed a hieroglyphic :representing a great
sicknessand mortality, wherein you may see the
representation of people in their winding-sheets,
persons digging graves and sepulchres, coffins,"
etc., and on the other side, '' a city all on flames
of fire." " These pictures," he says, referring
to them afterwards, " represented the plague of
London followed by an exorbitant fire." When ·
the great conflagration, which destroyed the
city, had taken place, he was summoned before
the Commons, probably with the view of ascer-
taining whether, at the time of the prediction,
he was cognizant of any incendiary intentions.
The House, however, found in him only the
vagueness or dissimulation of a practised adept ;
and after ascertaining that Lilly had made no
pretensions to acquaintance with the time of the
fire, dismissed the astrologer. That marginal
room for subsequent interpretation was de-
manded by Lilly, as by the Francis Moore of
our own days, is evident from bis works.
Kepler, to whose astronomical labours sci-
ence owes much, practised astrology in his day,
though with considerable disgust at the occu-
pation. He confesses that his services in U1is
department were only " worthless conjectures ;"
but exclaims, in apology for hia occupation,
" Ye overwise philosophers, ye censure thia
daughter of astronomy beyond her desena.
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
FlUNCISKOOBE. 119
Know ye not she must support her mother by -
her charms ? The scanty reward of an astro-
nomer would not provide him with bread, if
men did not entertain hopes of reading the
future in the heavens."
Astrology is now pretty nearly extinct, for
we have witnessed in our own day the death
of probably the last of his race, in the renowned
person of the yclept Francis Moore. We need
hardly say that its pretensions were founded no
less in folly than impiety. God in his wisdom
and kindness has shrouded the future from our
eyes, and to lift the veil that hides it would
diminish, instead of adding to our happiness.
Enough for us to know that the path of duty
is the path of safety ; that the footsteps of a
good man are ordered by the Lord; that " god-
liness with contentment is great gain," " having
promise of the life that now is, and of that
which is to come ;" and " that all things work
together for good to them that love God, to
them who are Ule called according to ms
purpose."
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
120 REMARKABLE
DELtJSIOBS.
CHAPTER VIII.
DELUSIONS PROMPTED BY HORBID ACQUISITIVENESS.
Conditions under which wealth may be enjoyed-Alchemy-
Bubbles: the Missisaippi and -south Sea schemes-the
Tulip mania-the Bank panic-Railway speculations.
No subject demands, in mercantile times like
our own, a more calm and careful consideration
than the morality of wealth. To acquire
riches does not indeed fa\l within the province
of every man ; but all men are bound to
observe with care the ethical and religious
principles which are concerned in the pos-
sibilities of obtaining it. All rightly acquired
riches must be comprehended by the following
regulations. They muat be equitably gained-
possessed by n~ man's designed injury-tem-
perately enjoyed-held as a trust for others-
increased without exposing the possessor to
large hazards-regarded as uncertain posses-
sions-watched against as a means of self-ela-
tion-and consecrated wholly to God. When
the apostle said," Having food and raiment,
let us be therewith content," he enounced the
principle that man's real wants go into a very
small compass, and that therefore correspond-
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
ALCHEMY. 121
ingly small should be the limits of n1an's great
desires for the life which is. And when our
Lord, in his inimitable patt.ern of prayer, con-
fined the supplications for temporal blessings
to the clause, " Give us this day our daily
bread," he reduced the wishes of Christian men
to a very moderate standard of computation
indeed. In uttering the sentiment,'' He that
maketh haste to be rich shall not be innocent,"
·solomon enounced ·a principle of the highest
value to every community and to every
Christian in it. The industry and economy
necessary to secure ~he daily bread are the
blessings and safeguards of society ; the perils
involved in the sudden acquisition of wealth
agitate and convulse it, and are not to be con-
templated without a shudder. Lord Bacon
,vell describes riches as " the baggage of
virtue" •-it had been well had he not too
fatally exemplified the truth of his own axiom--
and adds, " As the baggage is to an army, so
are riches to virtue ; they are necessary but
cumbersome, and the care of it often loseth or
disturbeth the victory." And~in another cha-
racteristic passage he thus speaks," Wisdom
for a man's self only is, in many branches
thereof, a most depraved thing. It may be
compared to the ,visdom of rats, that will be
sure to leave a house a little before it falls; to
the wisdom of the fox, that thrusts the badger
out of the house that he dug for himself, not
"forhim ; to the wisdom of the crocodile, that
Di itiz by
g
• :Moral
Essays.
Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
...
Di itiz by
122 REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
sheds tears when he would devour. But this is
particularly to be observed, that those sort of
men who are lovers of themselYes without a
rival are many times unfortunate. And whereas
they have all their life sacrificed to themselves,
in the end they sacrifice to the inconstancy of
fortune, whose wings they thought they had
clipt by that notable self-wisdom of theirs."•
Of this truth innumerable instances, ancient
and modern, might be cited. Of some of them
the following pages will furnish a brief history.
The study of alchemy, though of very early
date in Europe, appears, as indeed we might
have conjectured from the very form of the
word, to have first attained eminence among
the Arabians, probably at the time when they
became teachers of medicine to Europe. It
bore a considerable analogy to astrology, and
the two studies were frequently associated.
There is a considerable resemblance between
many of the characters used in alchemy and
those of the ancient hieroglyphics ; sufficient,
indeed, to prove their origin from the same
people and at nearly the same period. The
objects of alchemy were the discovery of the
universal medicine which was to cure all
diseases, and the preparation of the philoso-
pher's stone, which was to turn all metals into
gold. Hermes Trismegistus and Geber were
among the first among modern practitioners in
this alleged art, from the latter of whom, and in
allusion to the language of his science, the word
* Bacon'• Moral Essays .
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
ALCHEHY. 128
gibberishis supposed to be derived. In this
department Albertus Magnus was also a sage.
He was the instructor of the celebrated Thomas
Aquinas, who, in 1244, put himself under his
tuition. It was believed that Albertus con-
structea a brazen statue, (which is not impro-
bable,) that he found means to give it speech,
(which, considering that automata were under-
stood in that day, is by no means impossible,)
-
and that he endowed this head with life, (here our
belief is ended,) giving it the place and assigning
to it the duties ofadomestic servant; it performed
many officeswell, but, like some other servants,
its chatter was intolerable. This disease defied
all means of cure, till one day Aquinas, who
was then engaged in the solution of a difficult
mathematical problem, and was greatly dis-
turbed by it~lifted a heavy haminer which was
within reach, and, in an access of rage, dashed
the head in pieces. A Greek author relates a
somewhat similar rage in the experience of
a magician of antiquity who had transfotmed
the bar of his door into a water-drawing ser-
vant, and, because it did not perform its duty
sufficiently fast, broke it in pieces ; when, as a
sequel, each piece discharging a separate office,
drowned the poor devotee entirely. No part of
Albertus's head, however, survived his opera-
tion ;. but Aquinas' petulance, and the mischief
it had done, exposed him to the sharp rebuke of
his master Albertus. The temper was certainly
unworthy of a philosopher, and sir Isaac New-
t.onproved himself a much greater man, when
a.1 glrial 'rom
•
Di itiz y g IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
124 REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
his only rebuke to a dog, who had accidentally
set fire to his mathematical papers, was, " Ah I
Diamond, Diamond, thou hast destroyed the
labours of thirty years." ·
The most incredible marvels are related of
this Albertus. He is said to have once exhi-
bited his power before William, count of Hol-
land and king of the Romans, by altering the
seasons, changing winter into summer and
summer into winter, to the astonishment of the
beholders. Had the miracle been performed in
our day, one might have conceived of trans-
parent blinds, painted in part with sympathetic
inks, which when cold might become invisible,
and when warm might put on the tints of
foliage. But no alter.native excepting the sup-
position of magic seems to have occurred to the
spectators present. He was appointed bishop
of Ratisbon, though he soon relinquished that
office because his ecclesiastical duties clashed
with the demands made upon his time by his
alchemical studies. But at that period those
1\·ho filled the thrones or stalls of cathedrals
and priories were often addicted to alchemical
pursuits, and many painted windows and
gotl1icportals of our own isle still remain, to
testify by their emblems the frequency of this
conjunction. Though nothing can reconcile us
modems to the incongruity, it must be remem•
bered that out of the pursuits of alchemy have
unquestionably arisen some of the most in1por-
unt discoveries of chemical science. Men, in
1earch of the philosopher's stone, often com-
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
ALCHEHY.
pounded substances which had never been com-
bined before ; and thus the crucible and the
alembic, though they did not furnish the direct
results so sanguinely anticipated, led to the arts
which civilize, and to the discoveries which
bless mankind.
·Raymond Lulli, a Spanish ecclesiastic,boasted
or having been so successful in alchen1ical
transmutations, as to have converted no less
tha~ fifty thousand pounds of quicksilver, lead,
and pewter, into gold.* His experiments are
reported to have been made in the Tower of
London, and it is said that a considerable
number of rose nobles were coined from their
success. Roger Bacon also devoted much tin1e
and attention to studies of this description. His
reputation for them certainly gained for him an
unenviable name, so that henarrowly escaped
being burned to death as a magician.
The most incredible sto1ies are related of
Nicholas Flamel and his search after the philo-
sopher's stone. He once bought an old book
by accident at a sma11price, which he sup-
posed to contain secrets of the highest alche-
mical importance. 'rhe study of this book, its
Latin text, and its enigmatical pictures, occu-
pied the remainder of his life. In search of its
true interpretation he wandered assiduously
• Some of these transmutations were mere tricks, and con-
sisted in inserting a hollow cone, wholly or partially tilled with
gold and stopped with wax, into melted lead or other met~
which of course dissolved the wax, and liberated the i_men-
1oned contents into the cmcible. In 10me caaeameremuta-
tive metals were employed. ·
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
126 REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
through various countries, everywhere !eeking
light on this mysterious but most precious
volume. At length, by patient perseverance, he
mastered its secrete, aided by which, and by the
help of his alembics, mercury became silver,
and even gold. He found, moreover, we are
told, the means. of defending himself for a
quarter of a century from death. Such is the
tradition. Cert;ain.it is that Flamel practised
alchemy; it is equally certain that be employed
large sums of money towards the end of his life
in founding and endowing religious institutions.
The rest may be regarded as the poetical
adornment of a credulous age. We can more
readily believe the report that, being wealthy, ·
he lent out, to the needy and impoverished
young nobles of France, sums of money at
~normons interest, and that thus he greatly
increased his wealth.
George Ripley, canon ofBridlington, (York,)
was in his youth a laborious alchemist, but
before his death his delusion on this subject
entirely left him, and he desired that those who
met with his books would itnmediately burn
them, for that he was fully convinced of the
falsehood and inutility of such studies. It may
be readily imagined that such pursuits as these
beca1ne often associated with crime and infamy.
Of this we have an example in the case of
Gilles de Laval, a marechal of France (nat.
1420.) He inherited the most profuse riches,
of which he made an extravagant use ; but
sinister rumours arose as to the manner in
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
ALCHEKY. 127
which he employed them. His extravagance
soon exhausted his treasures. To replenish
them he became associated with Prelati, an
alchemist of Padua, in the search after the
philosopher's stone. At length the scandal
which surrounded Laval led to_ his- apprehen-
sion for sorcery, murder, and other crimes.
Gilles confessed himself guilty, and with Prelati
was sentenced to be burned alive. His rank,
however, caused him to be first strangled.
Prelati underwent the full sentence, and his
ashes were thrown ~ the winds.
In an ancient poem, a story is told quaintly
rebuking the folly of the votaries of alchemy.
Some youths, so runs the legend, having applied
to an oracular source for information as t,o how
they should :findthe philosopher's stone, received
the reply in three words-Labour, labour, la-
bour. Assuming that this was intended to recom-
mend diligent application to alchemical studies,
they pursued them till their wealth and hopes
were alike well nigh exhausted. The true meaning
of the oracle at last occurred to one of them.
" We have been deceived, my friends," he said;
" honest labour was what was meant. Leaving
this vain pursuit, let us each adopt a lawful
calling." They did so, and found in diligent
application to business the real secret of wealth.
The ancient college of Manchester formerly
had for its warder a celebrated alchemist, who
flourished in the reign of Elizabeth-Dr. Dee.
He was an astrologer as well as alchemist ; the
queen sent the earl of I"eicester to consult him
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
128 REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
on the most auspicious day for her coronation.
She subsequently visited him at Mortlake, and
caused him to be attended during an illness by
her own physician. He subsequently published
his discourses on matters connected with his
art, and these may yet be inspected by the
curious in the British Museum. He claimed,
moreover, to be in possession of the eli,-vir
vit<.e;
yet, after passing through a variety of adven-
tures, he wa-sa suitor to the queen for pecuniary
relief. He even pawned his books for food.
He died in poverty at Mortlake, 1608. Such
are the frequent results of fanaticism and im-
posture.
A variety of the alchemists is to be traced
in a sect called the Rosicrucians. They derived
their origin from Paracelsus, who, in 1527, was
professor of alchemy at•Basle. This man pos-
sessed a character for irreligion and immorality.
"He was a glutton and a drunkard, and in
falsehood, vanity, and arrogance, was un-
equalled. He pretended to possessthe philoso-
pher's stone, and asserted that he had dis-
covered the elixir of life."* The sect who
followedhim derived their name, however, from
Christian Rosencrantz, who lived in the four-
teenth century. Their pretensions were enor-
mous. They claimed to possess the secrets of
human happiness and of the regeneration of
society. They declared that the treasure.aof tl1e.
earth were at their disposal, whilst they could
render them~elves invisible at pleasure. But
• Thomaon'a
Salverff.
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
ALCHEMY. 129
their influence was chiefly confined to Germany.
Two of their most distinguished followers were
Jacob Brehmen and Robert Fludd. No. 574:
of the Spectator gives an account of the Rosi-
crucians. "I was once engaged in discourse
with a Rosicrucian about the great secret. 'Its
presence,' he said, ' naturally changes every •
place into a kind of heaven.' After he had
gone on for some time in this unintelligible
cant, I found that he jumbled natural and
moral ideas together into the same discourse,
and that his great secret was nothing else than
content." Would men only look for the moral
instead of the physical advantages of life, they
would find the way much shorter to the real
blessings of which they are in search. It is a
pitiful thing that creatures shoul~ seek in ex-
ternal preparations that _which only Divine
principles can secure. But· religion demands
self-renunciation, and man's effort in every age
has been to secure certain of religion's advan-
tages without yielding submission to its spiritual
~uirements.
One of the greatest quacks among alchemists
appeared in France, at the court of Louis xv.,
under the name of St. Germain. He fostered
the impression that he bad lived for some hun-
dreds of years, and spoke of deceased monarchs,
long passed away, as if he had been their con-
temporary. He displayed, apparently, immense
riches, and none knew whence they were
derived.
The adventures of the so-called count
E
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
180 REKARUBLE DELUSIONS.
Cagliostro, who lived at a later period, and
became involved in the celebrated affair of the
di~ond necklace of Marie Antoinette, were
not less remarkable, and exhibited a siroUar
instance of fraudulent jugglery.
All tyros in chemistry will be faroili~ with
an apparatus ·for impregnating liquids with
certain gases, called, after the name of the dis-
coverer," Woulfe's apparatus." This man was
an alchemist-ahµost the last of his race. He
lived in Barnard's Inn, amidst a chaos of cruci-
bles, alembics, and other furniture of the same
kind. So entire was the confusion, that it was
said a person once laid down his hat in Woulfe's
room, and could never find it again. It was only
by a secret signal that his intimate friends could
obtain acoess to his apartments. The want of
the due performance of charitable acts was, he
supposed, the ca~se -why,after long toil, he had
never succeeded in discovering the elixir of life.
He died of a cold and inflammation of the
lungs, caught by journeying to Edinburgh and
back, in 1805-such a journey being his pre-
scription for every illness.. •
So late as 1828, a gentleman named Keller-
man was residing at Lilly, Herts, who in seclu-
sion addicted biro~lf to this obsolete study, and
barricaded his house against all strangers. He
pretended to the discovery of all the ,vonders
for which alchemists have vainly longed, and
said that he could make gold at pleasure,
His crucibles were attended by eight servants,
in relays of two, for every six hours. He was
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
131
a miserable man, who thought all the world his
enemies, and was probably insane. "In Lon-
don," it has been remarked, "even at the
present day, it is not impossible that the
science of alchemy has still some secret votary
feeding the furnace, and watching with bleared
eyes over the crucible. One race f.>f
alchemists
ia at all events very plentiful. 'rheir numbers
exhibit no signs of diminution, _and repeated
disappointments do not appear to dissipate their
day-dreams. The man, for instance, who
makes haste to be rich by wild speculations, or
who expects to succeed in his lawful calling
without diligence, prudence, and industry, may
fairly be termed an alchemist. All men, too,
in a wider sense,who are setting their affections
on riches instead of the living God, deserve the
same appellation. They are seeking happiness
·where it is not to be found, and placing their
affections in what may take eagle's wings and
:fly away. The true arcanum of wealth is to
be found only in the words of the wisest of men,
" The blessing of the Lord, it maketh rich,
and be addeth no sorrow with it."
A Roman satirist, in allusion to the phrenzy
for riches which prevailed in his day, speaks of
the "hallowed thirst for gold," and describes
the popular longing as summed up in the fol-
lowing apophthegm, "Get money, ;honestly it
you can ; but by any means get money !"* One
of the monarchs of these realms, a savage perse-
outo~ of the Jewa in his day, j•tmed his exac-
Di itiz by
g
.. Horace, Bp. J.
Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
182 REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
tions by a similar saying : "There is a necessity
for me to have money ; gotten from what place
soever, and by what means soever, and from
whom soever." When such a maxim was
avowed, we cease to wonder at any consequent
tyranny. Happily, tbe well-constructed laws
of modem times interpose to protect the help-
less against similar oppression. We have out-
lived the maxim that
" - they should get who have the power,
And they shoold keep who can."
The steel-clad baron and the feudal lord no
longer hold the purses of their vassals ; nor do
the raids of the Scottish freebooter, or the
desolations of the robber of the Rhine, terrify
their helpless neighbours. But the desire for
riches has by no means abated ; though, with
the prevalence of law and liberty, other means
of acquiring t.hem have arisen-means which,
though often unpunishable by law, are, in the
sight of Him who trieth men's hearts, scarcely
less offensive and abominable. When violence
could no longer command sudden wealth, men
have had recourse to those false representations,
too easy for the impostor, and too enthusiasti-
cally believed by the credulous.
The first " bubble," to use a no:wfamiliar
,vord, of which we have any distinct account,
occurred in the reign of Charl~s 11. It arose
out of an ~ttempt to support the national credit,
greatly ~ by the king's licentiousness
and extravagapce. A general bank was then
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
BUBBLES.
first .pro~sed. During the agitation of this·
question, schemes of all kinds flitted before
the public eye-and in 1694 reached a crisis
which precisely anticipated many subsequent
occurrences. Mining operations in one quarter,
and large fisheries in another; inventions pro-
mising great wealth to their proprietors, fol-
Io,ved by the now familiar devices of swelling
up the price of shares to an exorbitant amount,
till the original projector had amassed consider-
able sums, when the luckless dupes were left to
help themselves as they best could-were a part
of the no,v familiar machinery for exciting the
hopes of the covetous, and inflicting the
severest injury on public credit. As, however,
good in some shape genera11y accompanies ..a
mass of evil, two of these many projects proved
of incalculable service-the New River Com-
pany, for supplying the metropolis with water,
and the corporation of the Bank of England.
The former was the conception of sir H. Myd-
delton; the latter of William Paterson, a native
of Dumfries.
The disastrous excitement attendant upon
these speculations were, however, speedily to be
eclipsed by a monster delusion, which has so
often been told, that, but for its importance to
the current of our narrative, we should hesitate
at its renewed infliction on our readers-the
Mississippi scheme.
A man of talent and enthusiasm, without
principl~., especially if his wants be many and
his extravagances great, is always dangerous
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
184: BEHARJtABLE
DELUSIONS.
in any society. Such a man was William Law,
who, having devoted much of his time to
questions of finance, and having impoverished
himself by a career of dissipation, songht to
recover by public projects the fortune he nad
lost. His schemes at length led him to Paris,
then in a crisis of it'8 history. That country,
by a court magnificent beyond parallel, and a
despotic monarch, had been reduced to witness
an en1pty exchequer. The regent of the day
was the duke of Orleans-a man most dissipated
and worthless, utterly negligent of affairs of
state, and careless of everything except his
personal pleasures. Under his regime the
clock of the state had almost run down alto-
gether. In this crisis of disorder, Law found
himself at the regent's ear, and, by holding out
large pr9mises, obtained his consent to establish
a bank upon a grand scale, out of the amazing
success of which grew up the famous Mississippi
scheme. His project was nominally to form a
company, possessing an exclusive trade with
the countries adjacent to the Mississippi river.
But the powers it sought were enormous. It
claimed to have control over the mint and the
public treasury, and to have power to multiply
the issue of bank-notes to any amount deemed
desirable. Its :first success was electric. It
irresistibly appealed to a novelty-loving nation ;
and Law, from a needy adventurer, rose at
once into a demi-god. The visitor to Paris
may be aware ora na1TOwstreet, called Rue de
Quincampoix ;. it was here that Law resided at
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
BOBBLU. 181
the time of the projection of his scheme, and the
influence of the project on his 'rioinitywas asto-
nishing. Crowdsof persons, prince and peasant,
senators, physicians, ladies of rank, stock-
jobbers, tradesmen - all crowded and jostlecl
together, waited,regardless of weather,
to obtain
a preference for shares. Of these there were
fifty thousand, whilst the applicants were three
hundred thousand ! The regent profited by the
opportunity. He increued the number of shares
to a large amount, and paid ofFthe national
debt with the proceeds. The excitement in-
creased. To obtain access to the house of the
adventurer, one lady caused her carriage to be
upset, that thereby she might excite his pity;
· whilst, to diminish the c~owd, another cried
"fire." The ante-chambers of the regent were
forsaken for those of the adventurer. The
spectacle of the poor suddenly become rich waa
everywhere witnessed. A smile from Law waa
a priceless favour. Trade was stimulated; .ex-
travagance and profusion were the order. of the
day ; land sunk in value-every proprietor
desired cash ; _
and the aid of the police was
required to prevent suff'ocation. Between No-
vember, 1719, and the April of the next year,
the price of stock rose till it reached 2,050
per cent. The moral state of society during
this inflammatory fever was deplorable, and
every good man regarded it with terror. M.
de Tocqueville says, " There wu no folly er
vice in which the high society did not take
the lead; the degradation of men's minds Wai
Di itiz by
g Or1gl r01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
....
Di itiz by
186 REKARKABLE DELUSIONS.
equal to the corruption of their manners." A
nobleman of the highest rank robbed a Jew of
100,000 crowns, .and murdered him. When
his trial approached, the judges had to pass
through a long procession of the noblest and
proudest families, all intreating a mitigation of
his sentence; and when the criminal was con-
demned to be broken on the wheel, the most
active exertions continued, though fruitlessly,
to obtain the commutation of the sentence. In
one week Law paid for estates upwards of three
millions of livres.
But, however brilliant the horizon, it proved
itself all clouds and vapour. The day of
awakening came. Rumours, vague and un-
defined arose-none knew how; and increased
with portentous rapidity. Suspicion is eYen
more contagious than enthusiasm, or, rather,
the frenzy of fear is even more powerful than
that of hope. Men began to think of securing
themselves. The prince of Conti sent such a
quantity of paper to the bank to be cashed as
to require wagons to remove the gold. The
country was drained of its specie. An order
was issued which diminished the value of the
notes by one-half. Men, struggling for the
payment of their notes, were killed in the crowd.
An indescribable panic ensued, during which
guards were numerously posted in the streets
to disperse the angry multitude. The horrors
of another Bartholomew day were threatened.
The bank stopped payment of the precious
metals. Law was nearly tom in pieces by the
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
•
BUBBLES. 137
mob, and ,vas compelled to seek refuge in the
apartments of the regent. At length the ad-
venturer :fled,and died in poverty, whilst France
was reduced to unspeakable distress, and the
sad effects of this mania survived in the increase
of the national debt by one-half. Truly was
the Divine prediction fulfilled, " They that
will be rich filll into temptation and a snare,
and into many foolish and hurtful lusts, which
dro,vn men in destruction and perdition."
The next remarkable delusion was that known
by the name of the English " South Sea Scheme"
-another striking instance of the extent towhich
common sense may be over-ridden by the all-en-
gros$ing passion for wealth. Like the Mississippi
scheme, it was an attempt to lessen the national
debt by concentrating many funds into one, and .
v:as promoted by greedy adventurers in order ·
to advance their personal interests. The South
Sea Company made a proposition " to unite the
whole of the debts of the state, amounting to
thirty-one millions, at five per cent. until 1727,
and after that period at four per cent., for which
they ,vere to pay three millions and a half."
The bank of England bid against them, and
offered five millions for the same advantages.
But the South Sea Co1npany, resolving not to be
outdone, increased their offer to seven and a
half millions. This proposal again led to a fur-
ther o:ff
er on the part of the bank," to give£1,70O
bank stock for every £100 irredeemable long an-
nuities." But, unhappily, the South Sea Com-
panyobtained the preference. In consequence,
Di itiz by
8
E2
Or1<;JI
r~ 'rom
INDIANA UNIVERSrTY
-.....
Di itiz by
188 F-EMARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
their stock roseto enormous·prices. Countrygen-
tlemen and city ladies, noblemen and ministers
of state, clergymen and tradesmen, farmers' ser-
vants-in short, all classes-crowded to Change-
alley in order to obtain a share in the stock.
As is usual in siroUar crises, the most extra-
yagant proposals followed in the wake of this
great speculation. A few of these simultaneous
projects may be noted :-A scheme for supply-
ing London with cattle and hay, another for
making pasteboards, another for trading in hair,
another for furnishing funerals, another for a
flying machine, another for making oil from
poppies, etc. Such were the devices which filled
the mouths of the gaping multitude. But even
these were not the grossest absurdities. One pro-
ject promised the discovery of perpetual motion.
A second pledged itself to effect a revolution in
the art of war; whilst a third proposed to raise
two millions and a half on an undertaking of
great advantage to be made known herea,jter
I
Will it be credited that the projector reali r.ed
£2,000 ? Of course, he was heard of no more.
Some benefits, however, were reaped at this
crisis. The London and Royal Exchange
Assurance Companies were formed at this
juncture. The South Sea Company, how-
ever, jealous of such rivals, commenced actions
at law against some of their competitors. A
breath will sometimes precipitate an avalanche,
and this step was the company's own undoing.
A decline commenced, and in a short time
South Sea stock, which, at the commencement
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
BlJBBLa. lW
0£ the aetiou, had been 850 per cent. iell to
176. To bolster themselves up, the company
promised that the Chriatmas dividend sboald
be 60 per cent..; bul the pledge came too late.
The descent had begun, and it soon became
headlong. Public credit fell. The name of a
director became ignolllinioua... Ii was decland
in parliament that " the directors should be
tied in a sack and thrown into the Thames.,.
Mr. Craggs, secretary of atate,.was
vehemently
aceuaed of being a party in the infamous fraud..
He replied by offering to fight a duel with Iris
aceuaer-no very oonclusiTe proof of his inno-
cen.eel A select committee was appointed to in-,.
quire into the a:ft'a.ir. A mob collected about the
House of Commons, and was with difficulty dis.
persed.· The treasurer of the South Sea Com•
pany sought safety in flight ; and when the
transactions themselves underwent examina-
tion, his absence was found to be not unreason-
able. All that bribery, the creation of fictitious
stock, and the resort to the most unfair advan-
tages could do, had been done on behalf of the
company; and the Chancellor·of the Exchequer,.
(ound guilty of being an advantaged party in
such disgraceful transactions, was expelled the
House, and committed to the Tower, whilst his
property underwent confiscation,for the bene.6.t
of the defrauded sufferers.
In the following anecdotes, related by Mr.
Francis, the reader will recognise lineament.a
which unhappily have, within the laai few
years, become too familiar:-
Di itiz by
g Or1gl r01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
140 REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
" Samuel Chandler, the eminent non-con-
formist divine, risked his whole fortune in the
bubble, lost it, and was
obliged to serve in a
bookseller's shop for two or three years, while
he continued to discharge his ministerial duty."
" The elder Scraggs gave Gay £1,000 stock,
andas the poet had been a previous purchaser,
his gain at one time amounted to .£20,000.
He consulted Dr. Arbuthnot, who strongly
advised him to sell out. The bard doubted,
hesitated, and lost all. The doctor, who gave
such shrewd advice, was too irresolute to act
on his "Tholesomeopinion, and lost £2,000;
but, with an enviable philosophy, comforted
himself by saying that it would be only two
thousand more pair of stairs to ascend."
" One tradesman, who had invested his
entire resources in the stock, came to town to
dispose of it when it reached 1000. On his
arrival it had fallen to 900, and as he had
decided to sell at 1,000 he deter1nined to wait.
The stock continued to decline, the trades-
man continued to hold, and became a ruined
man."
"The ,vags of the day were not idle. A
pretended office was opened in Change-alley,
to receive subscriptions for raising one million.
The people flocked in, paid five shillings for
every thousand they subscribed, fully believing
that they would make their fortunes. After a
large sum had been subscribed, an advertise-
ment was published, that the people might have .
their money without any deduction, as it was
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
BUBBLES. 141
only a trial to see how many foolisli persons
might be caught in one day."
The following anecdote is honourable to the
unknown party concerned :-
" In 1720, soon after the bursting of the
South· Sea bubble, a gentleman called late in
the evening at the banking-house of ~Iessrs..
Hankey and Co. He was in a coach, but
refused to get out, and desired that one of the
partners of the house would con1e to him. ·
Having ascertained that it was really one of the
principals and not a clerk who appeared, he
put into his hands a parcel care(ully sealed up,
and desired that it might be laid on one side
till he should call again. A few days passed
away-a few weeks-a few months-but the
stranger never returned. At the end of the
second or third year, the partners agreed to
open this n1ysterious parcel in the presence of
each other. They found it to contain :£30,000,
with a letter, stating that it was obtained by the
South Sea speculation, and directing that it
should be vested in the hands of three trustees, 1,
whose names were mentioned, and the interest
appropriated to the relief of the poor, which was
accordingly done."•
The essential evil of gambling consists, not so
much in an appeal to chance, (which word,
truly interpreted, means a contingent and un-
certain probability,) as in the hazarding of a
valuable means of promoting good (for such is
money) upon doubtful ventures. The violent
Di itiz by
g
* Hone'sEvery-day Book, vol. i. p. 170.
Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
......
Di itiz by
142 REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
transferences which large speculations involve
not only convulse society, but endanger its
stability. Where there are great gains, there
are also, somewhere, correspondingly great
losses. Those losses involve, probably, the
happiness of some-the means of support for
others ; the child's education, the widow's
sustenance, the orphan's prop. The failure of
any great speculation always tends to such
results. If, on the other hand, the speculator
gains, he is suddenly lifted from his position, is
placed on a platform he is unfitted to occupy-
is swayed by passions to which his wealth gives
new power-sees his family preyed upon by
vanity, ambition, and the desire of what they
never dreamed of before-becomes himself,
possibly, in the end an object of contempt to
his own children-is regarded by the public
with more servility than respect-and, in all
probability, carries with him to his grave a secr.~t
consciousness that all is not well. But what
shall we say, what can we say, if the man who
• lives amidst such great speculations be a religious
man? Only this, that it is easier to keep a
naked light alive in a tempestuous and squally
night-;.easier to make a tree grow upon a soil
perpetually shaken by men tunnelling below-
,, easier for a camel to go through the eye of a
needle," than to preserve a simple, humble,
contrite, holy, thankful, consecrated heart, when
the intellect is continually intent upon large
ventures, or is dreading the possibility of large
losses•
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
THE TULIP MAJtIA. 14;-j
'Whatever may be the particular means
employed to increase wealth with undue
rapidity, the dangers and results are much the
same. It is true that" dice" indicate a certain
class of speculations productive of Iio good and
much evil; but let us not suppose that where
dice are not, the gambling mania cannot be.
Almost all know the story of an old gambler,
who, having been induced to resolve that he
would never touch these dangerous cubes again,
was found soon after betting with a neighbour
as to who should draw the longest straw out of
a h&y-rick. In a similar mode, a man, while
professing to denounce gambling, may himself
be habitually practising it under the plausible
disguise of mercantile pursuits.
In the year 1684, the tulip-root became con-
nected, especially in Holland and Germany,
with a mania for pecuniary speculation. The
excitement of this ne,v passion was very great.
It gave rise, also, to some ludicrous occurrences.
Amusing stories are related, how a sailor,
coming into a merchant's counting-house, and
supposing a bulb which he saw (some of them
realized more than 5,000 :florins)to be an onion,
took it home to eat with his red herring, and was
found, little conscious of the mischief he had
done, holding it half devoured in his hand-a
crime expiated, however unjustly, by half-a-
year's imprisonment. Another gentleman, of
some botanical taste, finding a similar bulb in a
conservatory, set himself to peel off its several
coats, and then cut the remainder in pieces.
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
14,J: REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
'fhe reader may suppose the damage which was
done, when he is told that the root was that of
a van eyck, then deemed one of the most
precious of all tulip varieties. The infuriated
proprietor dragged the offender before the
magistrate, where the unfortunate culprit
learned that the botanical specimen he had
examined was worth 4,000 florins. He was
imprisoned till he found securities for the
payment of that sum. Such a rage, however,
must necessarily have its limits. A panic
began, and government was appealed to, to stop
its course. But at such a time, the strongest
governn1ent becomes feeble as a child. Actions
for breach of law were threatened ; but the law
refused to interfere with contracts so nearly
akin to gan1bling. The glittering pagoda feU
down with a crash, and it was long before
public credit recovered from the shock it had
sustained. '!'his mania has been attiibuted to
Lipsius. He was, however, innocent of the
gambling part of the transaction, having only
sought good flowers at high prices.
The years 1824 and 1825 are memorable in
the annals of this mercantile nation, as a period
that promised great national prosperity. ..t\.gri-
culture, manufactures, and trade of every kind
were profitable. This :flattering state of things
reduced, of course, the interest on money, and
stimulated men to seek for new investments;
whilst alrkinds of projects abounded. No less
than 624 new joint-stock con1panies spread
their shadowy, but brilliant visions before the
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
JOINT-STOCK COMPANIES. 145
public.eye. Though proposed, as many of them
were, by men known to be-destitute of capital,
the shares "·ere usually sold. " rOU talk," said
a satirist, "as if we had any real business ~o
transact. All we have to do is to puff up our
shares to a premium, delude the public into
buying them, and then let the whole concern go
to ruin." Mining companies started up in pro-
fusion, and were successful in proportion to
men's ignorance of the localities whence they
were to derive their wealth.. The history oi
the day was,in short, just that of a bright sum-
mer hour, which brings into the sunshine a
thousand insects of every hue. only that they
may be destroyed by t.he fury of the coming
thunder-storm. Clerks were to become rich-
labourers to be changed into masters-dazzling
wealth danced before the eyes of those who
were rich already. So long as public enthu-
siasm lasted, all was well ; but the climax was
speedily reached, and the downward course was
terrible. Banks of deposit began to be beset;
commercial discounts became difficult; houses
of high credit sought advances to meet their
pressing demands, and heads of the most dis-.
tinguished firms were seen to await with soli-
citude the answers to their requests for dis-
counts. It was the time when one-pound notes
were permitted to be issued by country bankers.
These notes -became suspected, and caused a
tremendous run upon the banks. Nor was
it only the originally insolvent firms which
suffered. The enormous difficulty found i11
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
such a moment of pressure, in turning the best
securities into cash, involved in a common ruin
many companies worthy of the largest con-
fidence. Men worth £100,000 were to be
seen begging earnestly for the immediate ad-
vance of £1,000. Even where the most serious
consequences did not ensu~, many firms suffered
tremendous losses by the sudden disposal of
their securities. The panic of the moment
justified the statement, " that it arose from want
of confidence in men able to pay 408., 50s., and
60s. in the pound." The Bank of England did.
all which was possible, but it was feared that
its own stability would have been ruined in the
crisis. At length one of the directors, who
had said that the bank could not stand such a
run another week, exbausood, faint, and stag-
gering with fatigue, presented himself before
the cabinet council of the day then sitting, and
with difficulty articulated the words-" All is
well." The worst danger had gone by. On
these occasions, the truth never appears till
men begin to su1Fer. Large· discoveries were
made of fraud, puffing, bolstering, and using, as
if they were securities, the names of men whose
riches lay on the negative side of a single
farthing 1 The capacity of man to be deluded
is not easily gauged I The stones, sticks, etc.,
which are found in the ostrich's maw, are easy
of digestion compared with the incredibilities
which may be aslimilated by an all-trusting
credulity.
One would suppose such a panic as this
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
ti.lLBOADS. 14:7
quite enough for a generation, and that those
who had witnessed its disclosures would need
no other lesson during their lives. For a few
years, indeed, the lesson suffi.ced,and this ex-
perience, combining with other causes, checked
the prodigality of adventure to which a mer-
cantile community is prone. But, in 1845,
another of these epidemics of delusion seized
upon the community. It will be long known
by the name of the" railway mania."
This phrenzy, like others, arose out of pros-
perous times. Trade was plentiful, and money
abundant. The system of railways had now
come into complete operation, and men flew to
them for safe investments, then becoming cliffi-
cult. The sanguine lookedupon the metal road
as the best regenerator of society. 'rhe rewards
of virtue, the results of peaoe,the triumphs of
-civilization were expecte.d,not from moral
· means, but from steam engines and lines of
iron. What may be - a legitimate source of
jeouniary profit became, as thus regarded,
suggestive of conclusions equally mournful and
absurd. Multitudes r11Shedto seek a share in
the high adventure. Every quarter, each nook
and comer of the island, the lonely dell as the
city mart, echoed t,o the sounds of " scrip,"
" discount," and" premium." Neighbourhoods
where only a few poor mining huts were to be
found, or vast districts uninhabited by any
huts at all, were to be penetrated by railroads,
the direction of which none could account for,
and ~e benefits of which none could explain.
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
.....
Di itiz by
148 UEllARKABLEDELUSIONS.
Prices of shares lay on the tradesman's counter,
and near the gauze and riband of the milliner-
were to be found in the dashing equipage and
in the rumbling cart-imparted new life to the
old, and suddenly matured the young; whilst a
wide-spread desire possessed almost every man
to be something which as yet he was not. And
there were not ,vanting birds of evil omen to fly
about in so excited a state of the n1ercantile
atmosphere, which, whilst .,increaaing the cla-
mour, availed themselves largely of its advan-
tages. It is a pity even to name the man
who set fire to the temple of Diana; and ,ve
shall call none from the oblivion we hope they
have found, and proclaim none whose names
already " fest,erin the infamy of years,'' as the
chief promoters of such a crisis. We may
regard the following as a not inapt representa-
tion of many scenes of the time : " A young
gentleman need only look to a half-crown rail-
way map in search for a district tolerably clear
of the rail. Taking two of the towns that form
that open space, he draws a diagonal with hil
pencil, and thus creates a direct line. He then
writes down the name of the company, his own
name as promoter, either alone or with the
names of as many friends as he can venture to
take that liberty with, or with any names real
or fictitious ; his own occupation, whether gen-,
tleman or esquire, engineer, artist, or solicitor,
or clerk, or perfumer, or tailor, or M.A., or M.D. ;
his place of business, if he has one ; his place of
residence, whether it be castle or hall, or in
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
RAILROADS. 149
Berkeley-square, or rooms in Gray's-inn, or
lodgings in the Borough. In the course of his
walk to the office in Sergeant's-inn, he may, if
he pleases, remodel his company, changing
every name in it. Arrived at the office, he
invests a few sovereigns, begged or borrowed,
and then enters his company. Advertisements
and letters of allotment do the rest. It may,
for anything the registrar knows or cares, be
straight across a mountain a mile high, or
straight across an arm of the sea, ten miles
broad. It would be his duty to register a
tunnel under the Atlantic."• During the above
operations, the most active measures were
employed to enhance the price of shares. " In
schemes where as many as thirty thousand
shares bave been advertised, not more than
fifteen thousand have been allotted to the
public, the remainder being reserved, part of
them for property on the line, part for the pro-
visional committee and officers. In this way a
scarcity of scrip was created, and the shares
rose to a premium. When the price was thus
forced up to a point supposed to be worth
realising, the reserved s~ares were sold, and the
proceeds divided among the committee."
Some of these undertakings were prepared
and executed with a rapidity perfectly astonish-
ing. The last day allowed by law for the send-
ing in of plans and documents was the 30th of
November, and to be ready by that day was
an object of eager effort. Apprentices were
Di itiz by
* Francia'•Bank of England vol. ii. p. 201.
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
....
Di itiz by
150 REMARKABLE
DJW7SIONS.
suddenly promoted tobe mrveyors,anddraughts-
men were brought over from the continent.
Sunday was no longer respected ; both in pre-
paring plans and cutting railway9t that hallowed
day was appropriated to forward man's schema
to be rich despite the laws of God.
Matters continued in this state till October~
1845, when a general expectation of something
ominous began to pervademen's minds. Thia
was increased by the course taken by some-
leading newspapers. The crash came. It fell
upon the heads of many who had thought to
get free from the rafters of the falling house ; bm
it also fell upon thousands who had been only
weak, and not guilty. Honest tradesmen, parents,
widows, poor men, had drained themselves of
their last resources to embark in these specula-
tions; and on them the ruins fell most heavily.
But though this delusion was soon over, it
was long before business returned 1;o its ordi-
nary channels; and who has not, even yet,
among the number of his friends, some who will
travel to the grave impoverished, and perhaps
broken-hearted, from having yielded themselves
to such an infatuation. If we hear of a widow
who had lost her little all-of a tradesman, once
in a position of comfort, now reduced to embar-
rassment and decline-of a merchant who had
overtraded-of a nobleman whose property has
coine to the hammer,-it is easily, and not
always unjustly concluded-the railway specu,-
lation has been at work.
Such are the issues of the snares by which
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
BAU,ROADS. 101
" the god of this world" perpetually deceives
his victims. " Man never is, but always to be
blest." Well does some moralist say, "the
world is a cheat, which never pays what it pro-
mises." Hungry, thirsty, faint, weary, and
sick at heart-a thousand victims have learned
in the royal preacher's tones, to say," Vanity
of vanities ; all is vanity." The only " true
riches" are not found below. The weaned
heart, the holy character, the spirit changed
by the grace of God and " satisfied from itself,"
the presence of God,the life of immortality-are
alone substantial possessions, and are all of
heavenly origin. Alternations will not afFect
them ; thieves will not steal them ; they will not
burst as bubbles ; they are superior to death
itself t
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
152 REKARJ[ABLEDELUSIONS.
CHAPTER IX.
DELUSIONS ASSOCL'a.TED
WITH RELIGION.
Heathen oracles-Stones of Druids-Romisb Ieiends-St.
Gregory-Empress Helena-St. Dionysius-Rehcs-Blood
of St. Januarius-Other legends-Coat of Tr~ves-Cru-
aades - Mohammed - Seva - Rosenfeld - Enthusiasts at
Munster-French propheta-!tliracles at tomb of Abb~ Paris
-Joanna Southcott, etc.-Mormonitea.
Tms chapter constitutes a painful part of the
duty we have undertaken to perform. To a
religious mind, nothing is more painful and
detestable than the delusions w:bich have been
promoted, the crimes which have been per-
petrated, in the name of God. Yet, by how
much religion is powerful as an instrument of
good, by so much it is deemed worthy of adop-
tion by the base and degraded as an instrument
of evil. 'fhe most lamentable result of such
errors is, that religion is made responsible for
tl1e tricks and enormities perpetrated in its
name; and men easily lean1 to decry that
which they have found to be associated with
fraud and imposture. Let it be remembered,
however, that if piety has been abused and per-
verted, so also has every other system which
aae ever conferred benefits upon the world-
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
BEATH.ENORACLES
•. 153
YP,t,as the frauds ot speculators do not pro-
scribe traffic; as the frauds of the empiric do
not proscribe medicine ; asthe frauds of trades-
men do not proscribe all trade; as food is
nutritious, though liable to be adulterated ; and
as friendship is true, though sometimes employed
for base purposes-so religion must not be
identified with that which bears its name, but
has no affinity with its character. Painful as the
misrepresentation is, a secret homage to religion
is nevertheless involved in it. The truth is,
that, broadly speaking, the most inveterate
opposers of Christianity by name are the most
tenacious protectors of its leading principles of
justice and integrity, and would set up much of
Christ's kingdom though they dethrone the
King. Could they be only convinced that, but
for Christianity, these principles would never
have been fully known, they would beware lest
they sweep away, under the name of priest-
craft, the only truths by which the dangers of
priestcraft can be prevented ; and would they
but think that much, which, in various ages, has
called itself Christianity, was but a well-known
superscription upon spurious metal, they would
save themselves much real, and some pretended
perplexity. In the mean time, nothing more
concerns the Christian professor than to remem-
ber, that if Christ's name be put upon trickery,
selfishness, bard-heartedness, and fraud ; or upon
intemperance, lasciviousness, and ambition-he
who so writes it is a forger and a traitor. The
bearer of the august name of 'Christ is deeply
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
1M REHARKABLEDELUSIONS.
concerned in being true to his own professed
principles.
Plato, who proposed to banish priests from
bis republic, with singular inconsistency, ad-
vocates the employment of methods not dis-
similar to those which he would explode ; and
whilst vindicating marriages by lot, suggests
the employment of secret means to regulate
the decisions.
The oracles of the ancient heathens are
notorious exhibitions of innumerable frauds.
The most celebrated among them was that at
De1phi, consecrated to Apollo. The priestess
of that god was placed upon a tripod over a
cavity, whence a gaseous and highly intoxicat-
ing vapour was exhaled, and under this influ-
ence uttered mysterious sounds, which were
· immediately caught up and interpreted by her
attendants. But as the promulgation of any
predictions was attended by some danger to the
reputation of the priests, care was taken to
limit and regulate the number of their utter-
ances, and not to give forth spontaneous oracles.
ExpensiTe sacrifices were demanded before the
consultation. It sometimes happened that the
moment was not favourable to a response, and
the answers when obtained were often ex-
tremely delusive-mere equivocations. If, after
all, the prophecy turned out a mistaken one, it
was often pretended that something bad been
omitted in the prev.ious ceremonial ; and the
ambiguity of many of the answers transmitted
to posterity wu eyidently such that they might
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
155
receive AD interpretation on die one aide or the
other, as the case might afterwards require.
To aid, moreover, in the fabrication of these
oracles, the inhabitants of the whole vicinity
were in leaguewith the priests, and furnished
them with much necessary information. Dis-
coveries have been recently made in some of
the temples of antiquity, of the secret chambers
and hollow statues in which the priests were
used to secrete themselves. Dr. Johnson relates
the following in his description of the temple
of Isis at Pompeii ·:-" We see the identical
spot where the priests concealed themselvea
whilst delivering the oracles that were supposed
to proceed from the mouth of the goddess.
There were found the bones of the victims
sacrificed, and in the refeot,oryof the abstemi-
O'UBpriests were discovered the Temains of ham,
fowls, eggs, fish, and bottles of wine."
The rocking-stones of the Druids were used,
in all probability, to imply the presence of
supernatural agency. Some of them still
exist in Cornwall. One, which stood in the
parish of Sithney, was so adj118ted,as that the
touch of a child could set it in motion on it,s
pivot. The celebrated Loggan-stone was of
a similar kind. It wae seventeen feet in length,
and its weight was estimated at sixty-six tons.
Even a breath of wind caused it to vibrate. It
was overturned ·by the captain of a revenue
cutter, who excitied such odium by his daring
act as to be compelled to restore it to its original
position. Toland imagines that the Druid,
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
156 REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
persuaded the people that these stones could
only be removed by miracle. .
To record many of the foolish, and more than
foolish legends palmed on their deceived vota-
ries by the teachers of the Romish religion,
would exceed the compass of our volume.
Before the Reformation, not only were a _count-
less number of such legends current, but they
constituted the principal materials from which
the priests professed to instruct the people in
religion. " The golden legend"-one of the
earliest volumes printed in this country, proba-
bly by Caxton himself....:wasa repertory of such
extravagancies, read by the priests instead of
sermons. A few specimens of the deleterious
food by which the people were then fed will be
sufficient for our purpose.
The legends associated with the name of St.
Gregory are manifold. It is related of him,
that one day, when officiating at the altar, a
bright cloud descended, which filled the church
with so heavenly an odour, that none could
dare to enter it. On another occasion,he caused
the consecrated bread to appear in the form of
visible .flesh. Again, when certain ecclesiastical
ambassadors came to Rome searching for relics,
he gave them a linen cloth which had been in
contact with the body of a saint. The mes-
sengers saw nothing in this present, and de-
spised it ; on which St. Gregory pierced it with
a knife, and the cloth shed miraculous blood.
When Gregory absented himself from Rome to
escape the honours ofthe popedom,a pillar of fire
...._
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
EIIPBESSHELENA-ST. DIONYSIUS. 167
and a crowd of angels appeared above his head,
by which signs he was "miraculously betrayed."
The most incredible stories were promul-
gated respecting the discovery of the cross by
the empress Helena. This cross was repre-
sented to possess such powers, as to be capable
of being reproduced to any extent without loss
of its original virtue. This was convenient,
especially at a time when so many pieces of it
were spread about in Europe as to have made,
had they been all collected, many crosses in-
stead of one.
The story of St. Denis, or St. Dionysius, is
perpetuated in the neighbourhood of Paris by
the church which bears his name, and which
was formerly the mausoleum of the French
kings. Dionysius is reported to have been
beheaded for his adherence to the Christian
faith, on the "Mount of the Martyrs," (Mont-
martre.) Immediately after his decapitation,
his dead body rose from the ground, took its
bead into its hand, and, amidst a crowd of
angels, walked for two miles, till it met an old
woman, into whose bands the saint put his own
head. It was even believed that St. Denis
kissed the head · he carried. Is it wonderful
that such tales as these have brought the name
of Christianity into suspicion and contempt
among a community who only know it through
the imperfect representation of it which Popery
presents?_
In some of the letters relating to the sup-
pression of monasteries, now published in one
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
108 BBKARliBL& DELUSIONS.
volume by the Camden Society, are curious
particulars relative to the gro\\yth of credulity
in a former age. The following is from a
letter of Layton, one of the commissioners for
the suppression, to secretary Cromwell :-
" By this bringar my servant, I send you
reliquies, fyrste, two flowers wrapede in white
and blake sarcenet, that one Christymas evyn
horl1 ipsd qu/J ChrWus natus fuerat, (in the
very hour in which Christ was born,) ,vill
spring and burgin (bud) and bear blosson1s-;
quod expertum esse,(bad Latin for, ' which is a
fact,') saith the prior of Maden Bradeley; ye
shall also receive a bage of reliquis, wherein ye
shall see strangers thynges as shall appere by
the scripture as Gode's cote, (God's coat,) oure
lady's smoke, parte of Gode's supper in cena
Domini/' (in the Lord's supper,) "pars petri
superqud natusest Jesus in Bethelem, (part of
the stone on which Jesus was born in Beth-
- lehem,) belyke ther is in Bethelem plentie
of stones and sum quarrie, and maketh their
mangers of stone," etc. etc.•
No so-called miracle of the Romish church
has been paraded with more eclat than the
liquefaction of the blood of St. Januarius-a
wonder still exhibited at Naples. It is pre-
tended that this blood, which is kept in a glass
phial, becomes fluid when applied to the head
of the saint on the day of his festival. Addison
de$cribes it as " one of the most bungling tricks
* Letters relating to Suppression of Monasteries. Camden
GCiety.
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
BLOOD
OJ'ST. liHl1ABIOa. 169
he had ever seen." Dr. Duan says, " I ap-
proached through the crowd till ! got close to
the bust of St. Januariua. The archbishop
had been attempting to perform the miracle,
and an old monk stood by, who was at the
utmost pains to instruct him how to handle,
chafe, and rub the bottle which contained the
blood. He frequently took it also into his own
hands, but his manmuvres were as ineffectual
as those of the archbishop, who was all over in
d prof use sweat with vexation and exertion,
fearing lest the people might interpret so un-
propitious an omen against him. The old
monk, with a genuine expression of chagrin,
exclaimed, ' Cospettadi Baccko,' It is as hard
as a stone. An universal gloom overspread
the multitude. Some were in a r~ge at the
saint's obstinacy, and called his head an un-
grateful yellow-faced rascal. It was now almost
dark, and, when least expected, the signal was
given that the miracle was performed. A
Roman Catholic, who remained close by the
arch bishop, assured me this miracle failed
altogether ; the bottle '\\"as turned with a rapid
motion before the eyes of the spectators, who
would not contradict that which they were all
expecting to see." Precisely how this delusion
is practised we do not know. It may be imi-
tated by reddening sulphuric ether with
orcanet, and saturating with saltpetre. This
mixture is solid at a few degrees above freezing-
point, and melts at a little higher temperature.•
Di itiz by
g
• Salvertei, 382.
Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
160 REMARKABLE
DELUSION!.
All travellers are well aware of the innumer-
able legendary stories and relics attached to the
various Roman Catholic churches on the conti-
nent. Cologne.exhibits, for the devotion of its
pilgrims, the skulls of "the three kings," as
they are termed, who brought presents to the
infant Saviour at the nativity. These persons
exist only in tradition, though Gaspar, Melchior,
and Balthasar, were fearful names in ancieni
times; for it was believed that those who
wrote these names on their foreheads with
blood, and then looked into a mirror, ,vould
see themselves in the forms in which they
would afterwards die.
The miraculous wonders attendant on the
, eleven thousand virgins, whose bones are exhi-
bited in another church at Cologne; the drops
of blood still shown at Bruges as the real blood
of our Lord ; the extraordinary theft of the
holy wafer by certain Jews, the puncture of
which spouted out blood, represented on the
windows of the cathedral church of Brussels;
together with a thousand phenomena of the
same order, believed by the multitude, but
laughed at or deplored by the more intelligent,
are familiar to all who have travelled on the
continent.
The exhibition of the holy coat of 'freves
has originated, within our own day, a class of
reformers, disgusted with the mummery of a
senseless religion, though unhappily distin-
guished by no love for evangelical truth. This
coat, professing to be the seamless vesture of
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
COAT OF TREVES. 161
our Lord, " woven from the topthroughout,"
·· was first shown in 1196. For three hundred
., years after that t_ime
•the coat was never dis-
played,- but Leo ~-, in 1514, authorized~
new exhibition. At the time of the French
revolution the garment was secreted ; but
when, subsequently, the Rhenish provinces
were adjusted, it became the subject of a
special treaty. It was again displayed in 1810.
Besides this relic, there was then displayed
one of the nails of the true cross. A 1nore
notorious demonstration was made in 1844,
and complete absolution (an equivocal term,
asserted by the priests to mean nothing, but by
the people everything,) was, in accordance
with the pope's bull, given to each worshipper.
Outrageous and profane spectacle! which, by
setting up the external in the place of the
spiritual, hid the Saviour behind his own
cross. The accounts of the crowding multi-
tudes gathered together to behold this sight
must be sought for in other volumes. The
relic was inclosed in a golden and glazed
frame, (its colour being brown, as ir long stained
by age,) and each pilgrim ,vas allowed to insert
his hand through an opening, and so to touch it.
"'ras it wonderful if such a scene should have
awakened in inquiring minds a sensation some-
what resembling that which followed the
preaching of indulgences by Tetzel? But bow
wide, in point of gospel power, has been the
difference between the " second Reformation"
and the first ! It was not by unsubstantial doubt
Di itiz by
g
F
Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
162 REllARKABLEDELUSIONS.
that Luther prevailed; it was by something
earnest!y believed. But l'ationalism has no
creed, and, therefore, no extended influence.
It is a system of negations-at least of hesi-
tations ; positive truth alone omnipotent.
We cannot undertake even to enumerate the
various delusions which a papistical super-
stition bas, under the name of religion, palmed
upon the world. The Crusades, which exerted
so important an influence over the aspects of
the then existing society, merit a volume to
themselves.* When Peter the Hermit, journey-
ing from province to province, first represented
the injuries received by monks and pi1grims
iro1n the Saracens then occupying the Holy
Land, he kindled a contagious enthusiasm
which is altogether without parallel. Nobles,
princes, sovereigns, hastened in a transport of
excitement to assume the cross, and, during
two centuries, the western provinces of Europe
were but the high road to the " kings of the east."
Nor have we allowed ourselves roo1n even to
mention those various other absurdities-that
farrago of miraculous rubbish- which, in
every age, have constituted the stock-in-trade of
Ron1anism. Radiant saints and winking Ma-
donnas ; visions of supernatural light ; pictures
which bleed when touched, and marks of the
five wounds impressed upon the bodies of
enthusiastic votaries-such delusions, whether
of more or less modern fashion, whencesoever
*.See volume on "The Crusades," m the present monthly
series.
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
SABBATAISEVA. 163
imported, and by whomsoever, do nothing to
commend a pure and spiritual religion to man-
kind.
'f he leading particulars of the gigantic in1-
posture of Mohammed may be found already
narrated in a volun1e of this aeries. The
attempts recently made to ,vhitewash the cha-
racter of this renowned deceiver have been
manifestly unsuccessful, and can only be
regarded with favour by those who hold that
"it is no matter whether there be a God or
not." Mohammed's first principle of promul-
gating his religion,. by gentle and pe~ceful
mean·s was notorious!y violated by himself in
the course of his after career, whilst the hypo-
critical means by which he introduced succes-
sive pretended revelations to sanction the
impulses of his ambition or ·his lust, stamp his
character with undying infamy. Strange as,
in many respects, the progress of this delusion
has been, we must not forget that it was the
interpolation with his own Iying materials of
many of the nobler precepts of the religion of
God, which alone imparted to it influence.
About the middle of the seventeenth century,
great excitement was caused among European
,Jews by the claims of Sabbatai Seva, who
declared that he ,vas the Messiah of that
ancient people. Though renouncing, in the
face of the wonderful accordance of fact with
prophecy, the demands of Jesus to be regarded
as the predicted Messiah, that ancient people
have ever shown a remarkable disposition to
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
164 REMARKABLEDELUSIONS.
believe in false prophets. Seva was the son of
a merchant of Smyrna, and after a somewhat
erratic course in the earlier period of his life,
declared himself to be the long-expected one of
the Jews. He was assisted in this imposture
by one Nathan, who personated the character
of Elijah, Messiah's precursor. The 26th of
June ,vas fixed as the period of manifestation ;
and it was announced that at tl1at time the
Messiah would sit upon the throne of the grand
signor. 'rhe deception succeeded to a large
extent, and multitudes of the Jews engaged in
prepal-atory acts of devotion,,and expected their
deliverer. But the chief men alone were sus-
picious, denouncing Sabbatai as an impostor,
and they consequently exposed themselves to
great unpopularity an1ong the mass of their
brethren. Sabbatai in the mean time advanced
from prediction to asserted miracle. As a
pillar of fire had guided the Israelites on their
first emancipation from Egypt, so, it was de-
clared, a si1nil~r spectacle should herald them
back to the scenes of their former glory. Such
a portent, Sabbatai said, had already greeted
him, though he alone had been able to discern
it. Yet this was believed on his own uncorro-
borated testimony. He next determined to
visit Constantinople, there to proclain1 his new
mission. But his claims had given some un-
easiness to the Sublime Porte, and instead of a
triumphant entry, the impostor only found in
that ancient city chains and prison-darkness.
He ,vas summoned at length before the grand
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
•
I
iI
ENTHUSIASTS AT MUNSTER. 165
signor, and told, that nothing less than a mira-
cle would save him from being punished for
wilful deception. The test to which he was
exposed was severe. He was ordered to be
stripped naked, and it was declared, that if
when shot at by marksmen he remained unhurt,
his Messiahship should be immediate!y acknow-
ledged. The impostor quailed and confessed.
But this was not all. He was ordered to
be immediately impaled, unless he renounced
Judaism and embraced Mohammedanism. To
this also Sabbatai consented, declaring that to
become a Turk \\Tas an honour he had long
coveted. Such was the disgraceful unveiling of
this " speaker of lies in hypocrisy l"
Several other pretenders to the Messiahship
of the Jews have since appeared-amongst
which may be distinguished Hans Rosenfeld, a
German, who for this offence was ,vhipped and
imprisoned for life ; and Richard Brothers, who,
in the latter part of the last century, found a
home in Bedlam.
The dreadful extravagances practised at
Munster, in 1538, if not well attested, would
seem almost incredible. Certain so-called
religionists, with whose impieties no sect in the
present day can be legitimately associated, pro-
clain1ed that a new Jerusalem was to be set up
in that city, which was to attract the whole
earth to its influence. As they were pretty
numerous, and did not disdain the use of carnal
weapons, they put down the magistrates, and
occupied their places, whilst they filled the
g
a.1gln;~ 'rem
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
166 REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
whole city with crime and outrage, proclaiming
a general community of goods, the abolition of
all distinctions or rank, and general polygamy.
With such delusions any civil society must be
manifestly a thing impossible, and religion
itself could not long exist when its administra-
tion was taken into the hands of those who
vindicated every enormity by the pretence of a
special revelation from heaven. Against such
doctrines, therefore, the early Reformers, and
amongst others Melancthon, lifted their loudest
protests. From Munster, however, the flame of
disaffection spread into Holland, where John of
Leyden, already notorious for the part he had
taken in the first insurrection, was proclaimed
the apostle of this insane and dangerous mission,
attended by twelve disciples, most of whom
,vere women. This man claimed, by authority
from heaven, to be king over the whole earth,
avowing that he was commissioned to raise an
army which should put down the unbelieving
powers of this world. He was at length be-
sieged in Munster by its bishop, count Waldeck.
For a long time the city held out under his
influence. But John of Leyden was at last
betrayed ; an entrance was treacherously
effected into the city, and the leaders of the
insurrection were punished by exquisite tor-
ments, their flesh being torn from their bones
with red-hot pincers, whilst their mangled
remains were exhibited in iron cages. In this
insurrection, joined as it was by many who
were smarting under severe civil oppressions,
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
FRENCH PUOPHETS, 167
it is calculated that not fewer than a hundred
thousand perished.
In the year 1707, Dr. Calamy, the well-
known Nonconformist minister, writes thus
concerning a sect which appeared in his day :-
" About this time we had a mighty noise
about us concerning new prophets risen up,
that foretold strange and heavy judgments.
They were for bringing in a new 9ispensation
in religion, and had many admirers and fol-
lowers. This fancy had been at work in France
in 1703, and many fell in with it. Some ot
them coming in England in 1706, with great
vigour and earnestness, endeavoured to spread
their notions here, where they were but too
well entertained ; their common cry among us
was, that this new prophetic dispensation was
to be llroclaimed in every nation under heaven,
beginning in EI)gland, and to be ~anifested
over the whole earth within the short time of
three years." These people were called "French
Prophets." One of their adherents was called
Lacy, and was well known to the doctor. 1'his
man imagined himself inspired. But one Elias
Marion was the most conspicuous. He claimed
the right to deal out the judgments of Heaven,
and to discover the hidden secrets of the future.
Dr•.Calamy gives a prolonged account of the
strange " agitations" which accompanied their
prophetieal utterances, and of their claims to
miraculous gifts, and even to raise the dead.
By prophesying in the streets they attracted
much attention, and made many converts; and
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
168 REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
when they denounced constituted authorities,
there were son1ewho greedily listened. Seve.ral
of them were fined, and exposed on the pillory.
This sect, having little of doctrine to subsist
on, soon died away.
'fhe miracles said to have been performed at
the tomb of .the abbe Paris would be scarcely
worthy of mention, but for the use made of
them· by certain sceptics of a former day. This
man was a pious Jansenist, whose devoutness
had gained for him high reputation. After his
death, extraordinary cures were asserted to hav-3
been performed on those who made a pilgrimage
to his tomb. Most of these were the results of
strong imagination, operating on the physical
frames of persons affi.icted by a certain class of
ailments, and were such cures as g~ve, within
a ·more recent day, notoriety to the names of
prince Hohenlohe and others. It is well known
how, for a time at least, bed-ridden and infirm
persons have been made, under the impulses of •
a strong credulity, to recover the suspenqed
use of their bodily functions. Similar results
were -in this case witnessed. By drinking of
the well consecrated by the memory of the
abbe, people were also thrown into violent
convulsions - a phenomenon by no means
unusual when the sympathetic emotions are
·strongly appealed to. Tortures, only to be
equalled by those of the Brahminical Hindoos,
were voluntarily submitted to by others of these
visjonaries, with a courage worthy of a better
cause.
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
JOANNASOUTHCOTT. 169
Many now· living will well remember the
freaks and impostures of Joanna Southcott, and
there are yet to be seen, in the streets of some
of our towns, men whose long beards, unat-
tended by the usually accompanying Jewish
physiognomy, proclaim them to be the fol-
lowers of that ignorant and guilty ·woman.
Iler story and pretensions were, in brief, the
following. She declared herself to have re-
ceived a Divine commission, as the 1nother of the
l\Iessiah, who was shortly to appear on earth ;
and she succeeded, by the influence which
usually attends a confid~nt imposture, in per-
suading 1nultitudes of ignorant, with some better
taught persons, of the truth of her pretensions.
She professed, that by her agency and that of
her child, the visions of the book of t.heReve-
lations were speedily to be fulfilled upon earth.
At the same time, she claiined the right to pre -
sent to the sealed ones the credentials of their
acceptance, and in a handwriting, which dis-
• played her ignorance, and was barely legible,
issued certificates to her followers. Contrary
to the assured belief of her disciples, however,
she died without giving birth to the 1\Iessiah;
and though her body was kept unburied till the
most active signs of decomposition appeared,
many refused to believe in her death, and, after
her burial, many more asserted that she would
rise again, and bound themselves by a vow not
to shave their beards till this consummation.·
What bounds can be set to the extension of
human foliy?
Di itiz by
g
F 2
Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
170 REMARK.ABLE
DELUSIONS.
Easy would it be to add to the name$ already
given a large list of those who, under the
influence of an enthusiasm in which inten-
tional deception had no place, have yielded
themselves up to religious delusions, and suc-
ceeded oftentimes in rendering others partakers
in their folly. It is incredible to what extra-
vagancies men may be led by the influence of
diseased self-esteem. Even in ordinary inter-
course with society, a sagacious observer must
l1ave known many who are utterly incapable
of deliberately violating truth, and yet who so
torture the smallest occurrences into self-flat-·
tery, as to derive incense from the most insig-
nificant sources. Let this predisposition be-
con1ebut connected with the religious element,
and such persons readily imagine themselves
the inspired prophets of the Divine will, though
their only warrant for believing so is their own
self-confidence. It cannot be too strongly im-
pressed upon the mind, that religion is a system
of external evidences, as well as of internal •
experience; that it is as much objective,as it is
subjective;that its revelations are not only sus-
tained by inward consciousness, but by pro-
phecy, miracle, contemporaneous testimony,
and a_world-wide adaptation. As we dwell on
the pages which record the progress of reli-
gious delusion, how strong is sometimes the
desire that we could subject its promoters-not
to the tortures of the red-hot pincers, or the
boots, or pilliewinkies of former times-but to
a searching cross-examination as to their visions
8
Or1<;JI
r~ 'rom
INDIANA UNIVERSrTY
,
tDi itiz by
THE BUCHANITES. 171
themselves-the motives of love of applause by
which they might have been influenced-the
state of health in which they were at the
moment-the tests they would apply to sepa-
rate their own convictions from the impositions
of credulity-and the Scriptural warrant for
believing their practices true. Under such a
process, powerfully pursued, and unless he were
raving mad, which is very likely, we imagine
St. Simeon Stylites would come down fron1his
pillar, St. Anthony ,vould cease to preach to
the little fishes, Emanuel Swedenborg would
abandon his unintelligible mysticism, Brehmen
his religious jugglery. But these· spirits are
now beyond us, and elude our grasp. They
have gone where delusion mocks no more,
and self stands no longer in the place of God.
Let us beware how we regard the illusory as if
it were real. Let us cultivate with special
urgency the influences which belong to llim
who is called " the Spirit of truth."
The religious delu&ionsof the last century
would not be cornplete without a passing
reference to the Buchanites, named after a
person called Buchan, who, in 1783, professed
herself the woman spoken of in the twelfth
chapter of the Revelation, and promised to her
followers that they should not taste death.
Their influence was very limited and transient,
and they were soon forgotten.
The delusions possessing the body called
" Mormonites, or Latter-day Saints," are some
of the most extraordinary of any we have
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
172 REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
related. As its pernicious errors have exten-
sively spread, a more detailed exposure of them
may be useful. This sect originated with one
Joseph Smith, who, though he was, perhaps, at
a subsequent time partially the dupe of his own
delusions, began his course as an impostor of the
blackest order. Hypocrisy is seldom found
unmixed, and the most atrocious deceivers are
usually, in someimportant respects,self-deluded.
Joseph Smith was born in the state ofVermont,
(U.S.) in the year 1805, and though an illiterate
man, who could scarcely read and write, was
possessed of great talents, which he afterwards
used for the most injurious purposes. The
whole family to which he belonged were loose
and unsettled, incapable of industrious applica-
tion, and seeking their livelihood by digging
for treasures supposed to be deposited in the
earth by the ancient buccaneers. In these
exploits Smith distinguished himself as a clair-
voyant. Putting a certain stone, to which he
attached much value, into his hat, and then
hiding his head iu it, he professed to be able to
point out the quarters in which the search of
his friends would be most successful. But
as decept.ion is suggestive and accumulative,
Joseph Smith advanced from one lie to another.
He pretended to receive visions from Heaven,
and though not yet fourteen years old, he found
those who were ready to give credence to
his tale. These visions, however, did not alter
the course of his 1ife, which was at this time,
according to the admissions of his own people,
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
THE MORIIONITES. 178
vain and abandoned. He pretended to have
been Divinely told, that the American Indians
were descendants of the ancient Israel-the
colour of their skins having been miraculously
changed in punishment for their transgressions;
that they had emigrated to America at an early
period of the world's history; that their record,
were Divinely preserved, and constituted a book
of revelation from God ; and that he himself, if
found faithful, should be employed to exhibit
these records to the world. In process of time,
another revelation, he declared, told him where
this sacred book was deposited, and Joseph Smith
communicated the information he had received
to his father and brothers. The father insisted
that they ~hould immediate!y go to the indicated
spot, and satisfy themselves of the existence of
this extraordinary volume. The family went
accordingly, and dug up the ground with im-
plements provided for the purpose. But when
the chest had just inet their view, it was super-
naturally removed out of their sight. Again
they disinterred it, but amidst thunder and
lightning the same process was repeated, and
they fled in t.error to their home. Joseph alone
remained behind them. As he was slowly
returning to his house, he encountered a dread-
ful vision of an angel, who in a fearful voice
spoke to him, whilst lightning was flashing
around, upbraiding him for the disobedience
of which he had been guilty, in communicating
the dreadful secret. He was ·afterwards sent
alone to the spot, and was commanded to take the
•
8
Or1<;JI
r~ 'rom
INDIANA UNIVERSrTY
] 74 REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
cl1est, and to bury it under his hearthstone, but
forbidden to investigate its contents. Together
with the book, he professed to have found two
stones, designated in his first narratives a pair
of spectacles, but afterwards termed " the Urim
and Thummim "-" two transparent stones set
in the two rims of a bow," which were to
enable him to decipher these wonderful records.
Dr. Authon, of whom we shall speak hereafter,
relates:-'' The way that Smith made his
translations and transcripts was the following:
Although in the same room, a thick curtain
'or blanket was suspended between them, and
Smith, concealed behind the blanket, pretended
to look through his spectacles or transparent
stones, and would then write down or repeat
what he saw, which, when repeated aloud, was
written down." The severest judgments were
denounced against the scribe, if he should pre-
sume to draw near to, or ~ven to look upon
Smith, whilst thus dictating. One Sidney
Rigdon was largely engaged in this work of
transcription, and at length, under these aus-
pices, what is called "The Book of Mormon"
was brought forth to the world as a new
revelation. It professes to have been found
written on golden plates, in a mysterious
character, which only Smith himself was able
to read, and he simply by a supernatural
impulse. Its contents relate to different pe-
riods, and contain fifteen books, the produc-
tions of as many authors. It comprehends
a period of a thousand years, from the time
Di itiz by
g
•
Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz y
THE IIORMONITES. 175
of Zedekiah, king of Judah, down to the
year 420.
About the same time, a document was put
forth, bearing the names of Oliver Cowdery,
David Whitmer, and Martin Harris, declaring
that an angel from heaven had showed them
the golden plates, and commanded them to
bear witness to J. Smith's testimony. Simul-
taneous}y, another paper was put forth by
eight other witnesses, declaring that they had ·
seen the plates, which bore the appearance of
gold, and that they had also seen the engrav-
ings upon them. Such, then, is the basis of
the J\,lormon imposture. Joseph Smith, who
appears to have had Mohammed in his eye,
and to have imitated some of his leading trans-
actions, professes a new revelation ; declares
that an angel from heaven has directed him to
a Divine book, long hidden from the world;
supports his declaration by bringing forward
three witnesses, who avow they have seen an
angel, who corroborates Smith's statements,
and eight others who declare that they have
seen the golden volume. But it remains invi-
sible to all other eyes, and is, as the Mormonites
pretend, divinely shut up from the view of all
besides. On this testimony the Book of Mor-
mon claims to be received as a special revela-
tion from God.
Now· the absence of the book itself, it must
be obvious, gives the complete lie to the whole
transaction. Such a pretence as that of Smith
demands the largest proof-the most open pub-
g a.1 glrial 'rom
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
176 REMARKABLEDELUSIONS.
licity. Christianity could say, "These things
were not done in a corner." Mormonism, ·on
the contrary, is the 1nost " hole and corner
device" imaginable. Christianity is, it is true,
dependent on testimony, ~ Mormonism pro-
fesses to be. But the testimony which sup-
ported Christianity was a testimony borne in the
most open and the strongest manner. Our Lord
had been crucified by the Jews and buried ; his
disciples declared him risen again, and assert~d
that he had so proved his Divinity. Not three
only, but "above five hundred brethren at
once," were ready to prove that they had seer
him. The disciples bore this testimony in
Jerusalem, before our Lord's very crucifiers, in
the most repeated form, and when the produc-
tion of the body of Jesus would have silenced
them at once, such a proof could never be
made. Mormonism, on the contrary, produces
three witnesses, who bear witness to an appear-
ance which might have been delusive, and if
not an invention altogether, has not strength
enough to influence the world in its favour.
They say that they have seen the engravings
and the plates, and they declare that an angel
brought them from heaven. But they do not
declare that they saw the angel-only that he
came and laid the plates before their eyes. The
statement is so loose that one wonders at the
amount of credit it has received. There was
obviously nothing in Smith's previous character
to render it unlikely that he should invent the
whole story. All testimonies concur in repre-
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
THE MOIUIONITES. 177
senting his former life to have been abandoned
and dissolute, and his own followers confess
that his life was not irreproachable subse-
quently even to his first revelation. The Mor-
mon writers lay great stress on the unlikeliness
of so young a man inventing such a lie. But
the improbability is altogether imaginary. The
annals of deception furnish many much younger
criminals. •
H we examine the names of the witnesses,
namely, of the three affixed to the first paper,
and of the eight subjoined to the second, we
shall find that of the three first, one was Smith's
amanuensis, (Cowdery,) one probably either a
relative or intimate connexion, (Whitmer,) and
one an amanuensis and a dupe, (Harris,) and
that of the eight others, four ,vere Whitmer' s
and three Smith's own family. The majority
were thus unprejudiced witnesses truly 11 It
may be observed respecting Martin Harris, who
perhaps was the most honest of the group, that
he was evidently one of the weakest of men.
"A gentleman of Palmyra, bred to the law, a
professor of religion, and of undoubted vera-
city," is reported on good authority to have
" appealed to Harris, and to have asked him
directly, ' Did you see those plates?' Harris
replied he did. ' Did you see the plates and
the engravings on them with your bodily eyes?'
Harris replied, ' Yes, I saw them with my
eyes ; they were s~own me by the power of God
and not of man.' 'But did you see them with
your natural, your bodily eyes, just as you see
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
..
178 REMARKABLE
DELUSJONS.
this pencil-case in my hand? Now say yes or
no to this ?' Harris replied, ' Why I did not
see them as I do that pencil-case, yet I saw
them with the eye of faith; I saw them just as
distinctly as I see anything around me, though
at thetime they were coveredover with a cloth.'"
At the time the pretended finding of these
books took place, this man applied to professor
Authon, a man of large reputation as a scholar,
informing him that " a gold book, consisting of
a number of plates fastened together by wires
of the same material, had been dug up in the
northern part of the state of New York, and
along with it an enormous pair of spectacles.
'fhese spectacles were so large that if any per-
son attempted to look through them, his two
eyes would look through one glass only..•
'Whoever,' he said, ' examined the plates
through the glasses was enabled not on1
y to
read them but fully to understand their mean-
ing.'" Harris, moreover, said, thitt having been
requested to contribute a sum of money for the
publication of the said book, he had come to
ask the professor tocounsel him on the contents
of a paper he had brought with him, which
professed to be an extract from this mysterious
volume. The professor regarded the matter
first as a hoax, and then as a cheat. The
paper consisted of " all kinds of crooked cha-
racters," composed of different ancient alphabets,
and ending with "the rude delineation of a
circle, divided into various compartments,
decked with various strange marks, and evi-
8
Or1QI
rial 'rbm
INDIANA UNIVERSrTY
......
Di itiz y
TIIE MORIIONITES. 179
I
dently copied after the Mexican calendar given
by Humboldt, but copied in such a way as not
to betray the source whence it was derived."
Subsequently the professor advised Harris to go
to a magistrate, and have the whole affair
examined. This he declined to do, stating his
conviction that the curse of God ,vould rest
upon him if he di9 so. Such is the testimony
of professo~ Anthon. By what means Harris
was afterwards induced to affix his name to the
paper which professed that he had seen the
plates is unknown, but the process taken with
so ,iveaka man is not iµconceivable.
It may appear strange that an illiterate man
like · Smith should have been able to invent
a story such as that contained in the Book of
Mormon. But there are other circumstances
which explain the wonder. It appears that, in
the year 1809, one Solomon Spaulding, who had
been previously a clergyman, set himself to
compose a religious tale, based upon the assumed
fact that the North American Indians were
descendants of the lost tribes of Israel. As he
proceeded in his story, he read portions of his
manuscript to his neighbours, who beca1ne
greatly interested in it, especia11yin that part
in which he fictitiously related how he had
found an ancient record, imitating the style of
the Old Testament. This volume was after-
wards put into the hands of a bookseller for
publication, and whilst there was copied by
Sidney Rigdon, who it is to be observed was
one of the pron1oters of the Mormon imposture.
g a.1 glrial 'rom
IND IANA UNIVERSrTY
180 REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
Spaulding's brother declared that the pretended
Scriptures were altogether compiled from his
deceased brother's manuscript. The widow of
Spaulding bore the same testimony ; and it is
added that the neigh hours to whom the original
tale had been read, instantly recognised the
production with which they had been heretofore
familiar as incorporated in the Book of Mormon
which came forth from Joseph Smith as a new
revelation from Heaven. Rigdon denied, indeed,
the whole transaction, but in so abusive a
style and manner as by no means to add to our
conviction of his veracity.
The manner in which this pretended revela-
tion is co1npiled, is extremely clumsy and
illiterate. Such phrases as the following are
frequent :-" I saith unto them"-" these things
had not ought to be"-" ye saith unto him"-
" ye are like unto they." The mariner's com-
pass is spoken of as haying piloted these ancient
Israelites upon their ~oyage, though well-known
not to have been applied as a nautical instru-
ment until many ages later than the professed
period. The Messiah is called by names not
known at all to the ancient Hebrews, and of
well-known Greek origin.
What are the doctrines of the books them-
selves? If the Book of Mormon have any
moral power, it is derived from its appropriation
of Scriptural truth which it admits, though its
interpretation grossly garbles the contents of
the sacred volume. It receives the doctrine of
atonement and of punishment for sin, and it
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
-'
Di itiz by
THE IIORMONITES. 181
avows a code o( pure morality. But certain
allegations borne to the conduct of some of its
followers, even of Smith himself, have tended
to throw considerable suspicion upon the prac-
tice of the most eminent of its apostles. Mor-
monism enunciates an entirely new system of
church government, dividing its priesthood
•into two branches, each consisting of many
officers- the Melchisedec and the Aaronic
priesthood. In these offices,Joseph Smith, as
might be expected, bears the pre-eminence. It
lays great stress on baptism for remission of
sins. It regards the church as a living inter-
preter of revelation. It interprets the Hebre,v
Scriptures literally, never symbolically. It
t~1ereforebelieves that God possesses a human
form, which doctrine is avowed in all its
creeds and catechisms. It sets up a great
scheme of worldly polity, to which it believes
that all the inhabitants of the earth will become
ultimately subject, and which affords peculiar
advantages to its founders and leaders. It
declares that " no one can possibly be saved
and reject" its messages. Against all forrns
and creeds it wages, therefore, the most offensive
and deadly warfare; labouring thus to uproot
and destroy all the seeds of piety sown in the
hearts of men. Of all spiritual religion-the
religion of the heart-it is mainly ignorant,
the visible and external being the leading
objects of its ambition. How different from
the system of which it shall not be said," Lo
here, or lo there," but whose seat is within
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
....
182 REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
Only the religion which can change men's
hearts is that which can convert the world.
Mormonism is, in short, a religion which, adopt-
ing n1uch of the contents of God's word, hacks
and hews it to its own purposes, and makes it
the foundation of an organization purely secular
and ambitious, and tending greatly to the ad-
vantage of its founder.
Besides all this, Mormonism recognises the
working of miracles as attesting its Divine
origin, though its miracles are of such a kind
as sometimes to excite ridicule, and to be
seldom capable of proof or of disproof, consist-
ing mainly in the alleged casting out of evil
spirits, or the cure of malignant diseases. Such
wonders often arise out of the faith of the
operator alone.
The history of ~Iormonis1n is, however, very
singular, and affords a remarkable proof how
persecution may lift into eminence the system
against which its attacks are directed. Basing
his system on such pretensions as we have
detailed, Joseph Smith soon found himself the
head of a growing sect. From the 1st of
June, 1830, when its numbers were thirty, it
advanced like the religion of Mohammed, in
regularly increasing development. As it grew,
the opposition against it became loud and
vehement, and men, disgusted with its preten-
sions, attacked it with a violence which savoured
altogether of this ,vorld. Smith travelled about
in search of a location for hie contemplated set-
tlement, not without some misunderstandings
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
THE MORHONITES. 188
among· his own people, but exposed to an
:ncessant fire of persecution from his indig-
nant enemies. A mob dragged him from
his bed in a village called "Hiram," and
violently tarred him and some of his followers.
The same mob tracked his footsteps, caused
riots wherever a Mormon settlement was found,
sacked the houses of the religionists, and
compelled them to emigrate into distant coun-
tries. Such proceedings as these of course
excited sympathy and furnished undeserved
power to the new sect ; and though the public
authorities reprobated the persecution, it was
easily put by the Mormons to the discredit of
the old sects. The expatriated people moved
into the state of Missouri. Whilst there, the
following entry occurs in one of the journals of
the elder accompanying the prophet. It will
be understood as bearing reference to the
meteoric appearances well-kno,vn to philoso-
phers as characterising the month of Noven1-
ber, and may be taken as an example of the
whole delusion:-
" November 13.-About four o'clock, A.Irr.,
I was awakened by brother Davis knocking at.
my door, and calling on me to arise, and behold
the signs in the heavens. I arose, and to my
great joy beheld the stars faHfrom heaven like
a shower of hail-stones-a literal fulfilment of
the word of God, recorded in the Holy Scrip-
tures, as a sure sign that the coming of Christ
is close at hand."
Such were the delusions which impressed
8
Or1<;JI
r~ 'rom
INDIANA UNIVERSrTY
184 REMARKABLE DELUSIONS.
the minds of the Mormon leaders, and were by
them communicated to their people.
In the midst of dangers such as those to
which he was exposed, Joseph Smith began to
organize his followers into a body-guard to
defend him against his enemies. His brother,
Hiram Smith, was nominated captain, and
another brother, George Smith, held the office'
of armour-bearer. Such measures on Smith's
part provoked corresponding ones· on the side
of his enemies. An antagonist force was rapidly
raised, and one of the leaders of this band swore
to destroy Smith and his army. Before he
could accomplish this threat, however, the man
was drowned in the midst of the Missouri
river-an event which Smith did not fail to
regard as a just punishment of his foe. Soon
after this event, the cholera broke out in the
Mormon army. At first, Smith endeavoured to
cure it by the power which he supposed to be
vested in himself, but he soon learned that the
disease was quite beyond his influence, and
thirteen .of his band were· removed by it.
About the same time, Smith was accused by
some of his own followers of prophesying lies,
and appropriating the money of his people. He
met the charge boldly, however, and the accuser
retracted ·the charge.
Joseph Sn1ith itl accused of having fled from
bis debts in Kirtland, where his first settlement
had been, in the middle of the night, leaving
his creditors to do as they could. This trans-
action was followed by a great schism among
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
THE KORHONITES. i85
bis people themselves, led on by two of the
three who had signed the first paper testifying
to the authenticity of the books of Mormon,
in alliance with whom was Sidney Rigdon. But
the last was deeP.in Joseph Smith's secrets, and
was soon forgiven. The persecution of the
body in the meantime continued. Obst.ruc-
tions being offered to the right of voting in
political elections by the enemies of Smith, a
regular series of assaults took place, which
lasted during several weeks. In the end, an
attempt was made to massacre the Mormons.
The Mormons now began to establish them ...
selves in Illinois, where they formed a .town,
which they ca11ed"Nauvoo," or beautiful. Of
.this towQ Smith was .appointed mayor, and in
addition to his titles of prophet and president,
was also termed lieutenant-general.
In 1837, Mormonism began first to make
head in England, and in that year made many
converts among the ignorant and weak-minded,
principally iu the manufacturing districts. Those
·who looked to religion for a system of external
advantdge and polity, saw much in this new
system which corresponde_d with their views.
In 1841, Joseph Smith directed, under inspira-
tion, as he termed it, the construction of a
magnificen~ temple at Nauvoo, to which he
invited contributions from all quarters. It was
well situated, and of large proportions, and a
million of dollars were expended upon its
construction.
Among other descriptions given at this time
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
186 REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
of the prophet, is one delivered by a public
lecturer, named Newhall, who was present at a
review of his army by Smith himself, attended
by " six ladies on horseback, who were dressed
in black velvet, and wore waving plumes of
white feathers, and rode up an"ddown in front
of the regiment." The prophet himself is called
"very sociable, easy, cheerful, obliging, and
kind, and very hospitable-in a word, a jolly
fellow, and one of the last persons whom he
would have supposed God would have raised up
as a prophet or priest."
It was about this time that one of the leaders
of the Mormonites, Sidney Rigdon, promulged
the abhorr.ent doctrine of plurality of wives, in
imitation of Mohammed himself-a doctrine
which Smith was regarded as greatly favouring.
Smith, now at the very height of his ambi-
tion, was put forward as a candidate for the
presidentship of the United States, and pub-
lished what he termed '~General Smith's Views
of the Government and Policy of the United
States." . It is needless to say that his preten-
sions were regarded iu the main with contempt.
Soon after this, the accusation against Smith of
promoting the " spiritual wife" doctrine, sus-
tained asit was by the affidavits of sixteen
persons, led to the destruction by the Mormons
of the newspaper which had published then1,
and thence to a serious conflict between the
Mormonites of Nauvoo and the surrounding
inhabitants, in the course of which Joseph
Smith and his brother were shot. The pro-
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
.,
THE MORMONITES. 187
phet's death gave to him a power which it is
probable his life, had it been prolonged, would
have utterly prevented-he became enshrined
and worshipped.
.After the death of Joseph Smith, Sidney
Rigdon endeavoured to vault into the vacant
chair. His reputation was, however, so low,
that this was found to be impossible. He was
expelled from the society, and Brigham Young
was appointed the leader-a post which he still
holds.
Again the Mormon body were compelled to
emigrate. They were driven from Nauvoo,
and have now fixed their residence at Deseret,
in the vicinity of California, in the great salt
water lake valley, which they first reached
after incredible troubles and privations. 'fhey
have formed here a large and increasing settle-
ment; t-hey have built an enormous temple;
they are said to have been the first who profited
by the gold found in California, and they have
established a perpetual emigration fund, to aid
those from all countries who are attracted by
the hope of an earthly paradise. The latest
account of them is given by Mr. Kelly, who, in
his "Excursion to California," gives no very
favourable description of the morals of the new
settlement. If only half the narratives given of
the practices of the leaders be true, they will
demonstrate the fact that chastity and purity
have no true basis among them. It is indeed
true that the Mormonite books profess to abjure
such practices. But a new ;revelation is with
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
188 REMAUK.-\BLE
DELUSIONS.
them always possible, and who can sny what
vices it may sanction?
Melancholy as are these illustrations of delu-
sions connected with religion, the student of the
word of God will see in them only a fulfilment
of many warnings which that Divine record
contains upon this subject. " The Spirit
speaketh express}y, that in the latter times
some shall depart from the faith, giving heed
to seducing spirits and doctrines of devils;
speaking lies in hypocrisy, having their con-
science seared with a hot iron." A corrupt
state of the heart is the prolific source from
which these delusions spring. There is a want
among their votaries of an earnest, simple-
minded, child-like desire to attain to the truth,
and mingled, as this often is, with the indul-
gence of some known sin, it ends in the judicial
surrender of the victim to a strong delusion to
believe a lie. Those, however, who earnestly
and with uprightness of purpose seek to knc,w
the Lord, no such delusions will be permitted
to, entangle. The promise of God standeth
sure, that they ·who seek him with their whole
heart shall surely find him. The highway of
holiness that leadeth to His kingdom is so plain,
that a labouring man, though a fool, shall not
err therein.
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
CONCLUSION. 189
CHAPTER X.
•
CONCLUSION.
Oua illustrations of credulity are now nearly
closed. 'fo spend much time in winding up
these observations may he censured by the
reader as superfluous. A few short words will
be enough.
'fhe reader who lives in the nineteenth cen-
tury stands on vantage-ground with regard to
most of the errors which we have detailed. The
self-complacency naturally attendant on our ad-
vanced knowledge can well afford to pity those
who lived in a period of comparative disadvan-
tage, and who were thus victims of their own
infatuation. We censure delusions not our own,
as the man despises the delusions of the child.
But what if we conceive of a state of things,
as much or more in advance of the present, as
the present is in advance of the past? We
speak not now of science, but of truths much
higher and holier than science has ever known,
and in comparison of which mere scientific dis-
coveries are but as baubles. What, if we think
of one who has himself passed " the flatning
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
.....
190 REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS.
bounds of space and time," looking down from
his '' empyreal throne," with al~ his faculties
now quickened and enlarged, upon " the smoke
and stir of this dim spot which men call earth,"
and passing sentence upon the thoughts which
now occupy others, and which once amused
himself. Would there be nothing to excite
surprise and pity?
Below him is a world, every atom of which
bears upon it the significant impress of an
almighty Creator, walking through all its
scenes in the varieties of his majestic power.
The opening day-the summer evening-the
plumage of its birds-the instincts of its
animals -the fragrance of its flowers-and the
commanding intellect of the being who, as God's
vicegerent, commands them all, speak to man
at every turn of " God's eternal power and
Godhead, so that they who deny him are with-
out excuse.,, Yet, by that noblest production
of almighty workmanship-by man himself-
God is neglected and scorned. 'fhe creature
who basks in God's sunshine does not value his
sn1ile; nor does he who shudders at God's
tempest dread his frown. The eye, the ear,
the understanding, proclaim the Divinity. But
the heart refuses its homage, and man walks like
an atheist through a world full of the Holy One,
knowing him not, obeying him not, and care-
less of all that might do Him pleasure. Is
there any of the delusions we have just exhi-
bited so great an i.nfatuation as this?
Or, let us look again at the gigantic powers
Di itiz by
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
Di itiz by
CONCLUSION. 191
of evil everywhere stalking abroad in the world.
Man sees sin poisoning society in all its forms,
yet he clings with eagerness to the very influence
which destroys him. He gives up bis soul, by a
succession of voluntary acts, not quite so appa-
rent, but quite as real as in any case heretofore
believed. He risks that soul upon ventures in
which the chances of repentance are inconceiv-
ably small, and the probabilities offinal ruin over-
whelmingly great. The spendthrift embraces
the want be dreads. The drunkard faints for
his " liquid fire." The pleasure-seeker labo-
riously invites the ennui which he yet feels to
be intolerable. The debauchee eagerly invites
disgrac~, premature exhaustion, and a nerveless
death. Men ask for martyrdom in forms which
bring all its pains without its attendant conso-
lations. The mind grows sick at such exhi-
bitions. Delusion and infatuation possess the
world.
In all directions men are seen to act like
maniacs. Insane, when in youth they lay up
for themselves future diseases and death ; insane,
when in manhood they solicit their own inevit-
able disappointment ; insane, when through life
they kindle the fires of a life to come. That flat-
tering looking-glass gives back this warning to
the beauty who sits before it. That engrossing
business gives it back to the merchant or
tradesman who sacrifices soul and body at its
venture. That parental fondness gives it back
to those who, like the Carthaginians of old, are
sacrificing their children to a senseless god. Do
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
] 92 REMARKABLE
DELUSIONS. •
we not seem to see a vast collection of maniacs,
intent, as maniacs often are, on perpetrating on
themselves the most deadly injuries?
L~there, then, no remedy for this wide-spread
infatuation? no place in which men may find
something that shall satisfy the deep craving of
the hu1uan heart for solid happiness ? Thanks
be to God, there is one remedy that never fails
-one place at which all who truly seek shall
find abiding satisfaction, · ·
"The Cross-
There no delusive hope involves·despair,
No mockery meets you, no deception there.
The spells and charms that b:lnded you before,
All vanish there, and fascinate no more."
COWPER.
The true Christian alone has found the secret
of happiness. Taught by the Holy Spirit, he has
seen through the emptiness of the world, and has
abandoned the chase of those empty shadows
which such multitudes around him pursue. The
fountain at which he has drunk is free and open
to all. " If any man thirst, let him come unto
me and drink," is still the Saviour's invitation
to the children of men. llay the readt r hearken
to this affectionate appeal, and with gratitude
welcome the gospel offerofreconci1iationthrough
faith in His· blood 1 " For God so loved the
world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that
whosoever believeth in him should not perish,
but have everlasting life."
Di itiz by
L')NDON: UOBliRT K. ln'RT, PRINTER, HOI.HORN HILL.
g Or1glr01 'rl:lm
IN □ IANA UNIVERSrTY
