{"name":"Joanna Southcotts Answer To Garretts Book","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1805__southcott___joanna_southcotts_answer_to_garretts_book.pdf","mytitle":"Joanna Southcotts Answer To Garretts Book","mylang":"de"}
JOANNA SOUTIICOlT’s ^
A N S W E R T O
GARRETT!* BOOK,
entitled
t 6 DEMONOCRACy DETECTED----VISIONARY ENTHU­
SIASM c o r r e c t e d ; o r , s i x p e n n y -w o r t h o f ’
QOOD ADVICE SELECTED FROM
The Scriptures of Truth:
BY THE
Rev. J E R E M IA H LE A R N O U L T GARRETT^
Author of
R A Y S O F E V E R L A S T IN G L IG H T ."
ALSO,
11 E M A R K S i
on an engraved
P R I N T , :
publislied by the said Garrett , * - .
£>fgtjt ototi $?eat>: , -yy' •
W ith marvellous and Wonderful AccompafnnTent/,' ’ ' : *
J&iEfc'FIjN TR E DEMON IS D ET ECTE D , qiS SE cTE D — WHO sOOl?
. .WALL BE CORRECTED* AND A L L H U ADJiERZNTS . -
REJECTED.
Herndon:
* Printed by A.- Sffle, r66, Tottenham Court Road.
$oid by E. J. Field, HigK'-stfeet, St Giles’s, t*V
odoors from th
e?
• -Angel Inn ; E. C a r p e n t e r , near the Elephant afid Castle,
" Newington Butts j C . A b Do t t * East find of OJd-street, »
•- • Bpar Shoreditch Church ^ W,. §ymoNds, Gandy-iane,, ;
! Exeter ; Miss Ev s l e i g h s , St, cidweirs, Eveter, l
4
\ , and \|r. Child, Stourbridg^fWorcestershire*
^tice Sixpence.. ,o o g le
d e s c r i p t i o n o f t h e Wo n d e r f u l PRINT', as
MENTIONED IN THE TlTLE/ PAGE.
■ The first thing that strikes the eye, is the Head of this man
Garrett, P."R. and in proportion to the rc.<t of the Print
is uncommonly large, and commands the whole. Above
his head he is adorned w ith a Cross, and a Crown ; 0:1
one side arc an Axe, a Sword, and a Whip; on the other
side, is something resembling a Spear, with a Trumpet
and Grapes— beneath this m a n ! is a quarter angle di­
vided in the middle, with Jehovah in .Hebrew Charac­
ters, surrounded with Ua\s of Glory, and the words,
Holy,' Holy, Holy! at the Top, and two sides of the
Angle; near the bottom Angle, is written, Lamb’s W ife,
all in the Rays, and a bare Ann issuing from behind the
Angle, with a Sword pointing to a Beast below, with
*Twelve Heads, on which is seated a Woman and the
Devil behind her, with one of his Arms round her
waist, while the other is pointing to the opposte side at
a Watchman with a Lanthorn, blowing his o w n Horn;
behind is a Mount, with a Lamb at the top, surrounded
with Rays of Glory ; between this Watchman and the
Mount is aCross, and out of this Cross issues a small
Cross, with two Labels, on which are w ritten the follow­
ing texts, 1st Cor. xv. 45 & 47—Colos. ii. 14. Under
the Beast with Twelve Heads, with the Woman and ti»o
Devil, is written in very small letters,4‘Wonder of Neck-
“ inger;'' over the Devil's horns and wings, which are
of the Bat kind, is a House, the lower part is invisible
to the eye, with smoke, a long sting with a dart at the
end, forms altogether the Devil's tail—under the wdiole
is written, in rather large letters
The Rev. JER. L E A R N O U L T G A R R E T T , P. R.
Minister of Sion Chapel, Lant Street, Southwark.
The Reader is desired, for the better understanding this
Book, to attend to the above description, and to remark
how large and. conspicuous Garrett has placed bis own
, Head, novering above the sacred name of Jehovah*
with the Holy of Holies, and the Lamb's W ife, &c. &c.
as if He, Garrett, like th6*Tope of Rome, had all di­
vine power on this earth, to save or destroy at his. sove-%
■ xeignf’wiU !!i
THElREy^Dm” ]LEAKNOIII>TGAB$E,TTER.
CZS~3tihitter Su>7i- Gt>ajbe£, Jjasvt Street, Soutbwar/c.
Digitized by Google
Digitized by Google
. J O A N N A S O U T H C O T T ’s
ANSWER TO
GARRETT’s BOOK,
A n d an Explanation o f the W ord B r id e , the L amb’s W if e , in
the Rerelations, (see p« 7.)
IN the title page to Garrett’s Book, the descrip­
tion of which, and his print of his own head, & c.
is in the preceding page, are the words as follows,
*c Demonoeracy Detected.” — I shall now answer from
those words j— Know, in his book he has placed this
unto Me, as being led by the Devil, and detected
by him : but I shall turn the whole back ijpbn his
own head; for he is detected from his lies, and
know what was said in Our Saviour's days, when the
people told lies concerning Him:-— he said they
were oftheir Father the Devil, who was a liar from
the beginning; now are his lies detected, in my an­
swer sent to the printer; and from the answer that
is given in my book, it is impossible for him to
shun being detected. 'Then as I have said lies came
from Demon the Devil, he is detected in them. Now
I shall answer his other words “ Visionary Entbu-
*( siasrn dissected,” and shall explain what is the
meaning of those words: it is Enthusiasm in any
man to take to himselfthe words that the Lord spoke
to the Prophets, to reprove tlje false Prophets; un­
less he can prove, the Lord has spoken-fo him ;
this is visionary enthusiasm in m en: for if they take
the sense of the Bible so, that what the Lord spoke
to his Prophets to reprove the false ones, allude tel
aH preachers, they might every one go info their
pulpits and each say— “ the word of the Lofcdcame
Unto me,’’ instead of saying it came, to the Pro­
phets o f old; then they must believe the visions
that were shewn to. the Prophets allude to them­
selves; and all this is the visionary Enthusiasm
which is now gone out in the world amongst the
hirelings who fere hired to preach to the sheep; but
ail this must be Ussided: Know,; dissection means
taking every thing fo pieces; to search out the
whole, stud this Ihayeearefulfy don® by his Book,
' •«. ' *w* Digitized by Google by
by marking arid observing every place in it. And
I have detected his lies, I have dissected his visions
and prophecies, that he took from the Prophets,
■ which he placed, to himselfi and I have proved he
hath no share or lot in the matter; thus I have
brought upon his head, his own Title Page, which
..it is impossible for him to bring upon mine, as he
have not. detected me in one lie ; but by his in-
^vented lies, he-has detected himself; neither hath
’•die .said, that he hath read ail my books through, to
point out tp ;thc world fhe errors.that he hath found
in them,; to shew .his dissection of my writings—
wher<f|he errors ly e .. But know what he hath said
in his fourth page—1
:'* a few lines are quite suffici-
. <
f ent to exite, in any Christian the utter abhorrence
of her whole system; I will therefore give them
V an impartial stroke at the foundation.” 7'hen
.he followeth on with lies from the foundation, that
came from Satan’s head; but never came from the
, fountain of Truth; therefore he is dissected, from
.his own visionary Enthusiasm, and detected in his
abominable L ies: but could I have done this by
reading a few lines in his book before I had care-
iully gone through the whole, to see where his er­
rors lye ? Then neither can he, or any man living,
.be a. judge of my writings, before they have read
them through, and weighed the whole together;
for they, cannot judge of a thing they know nothing
about; so here is his bewitched multitude corrected,
if they judge of things they know nothing about,
exercising themselves in things, too high who are
more prone, to believe the lies of men, than to be­
lieve the visitation of die L ° fd ; and this hath been
in every age of. the world: always relying on,the
words and wisdom pfi men, and despising; the Pro­
phets of. *he Lord—-which brought the deluge first
upon the earth; for at that time,they trusted to the
wisdom of men that rnopked tfie warning ; it yas.
this which also brought, the Fire from Heaven up­
on Sodom and G om orr^ upon those who laughed
at Lot, for -.a foolt to,believe in the angels, that
were sent to warn ffim; and the same unbelief
' ‘ , brought
Digitized by V j O O Q l C
brought destruction upon the Jews, who trusted to]
their teachers, more than to the wondrous works oL
the Lord that was done amongst them ; they likt*-^
wise wrested their Bibles and the words of their,
Prophets, and are to this day a standing proverb,~
as an outcast people from the Lord ; vei the
dy multitude of this time are hastening on for the,
same destruction ! they are more'prone by nature,
to believe the lies of men, than they are to be­
lieve the visitation of the I ord ; setting up mt»n
as Earthly Gods, that have no power to send any.
blessings upon the earth, or to stop the rage of
war; if the Lord sends floods to spoil their har- *
vest, thev see they have no’ powers to stop them ;,
(as he did in 1799) if He sends the sun, to burn
up the ground (which was in iSoo) they have no,
power to command the rain ; if He Sends the mil-,
dew or blast upon the grain to shorten the hies-]
sings upon the earth, (which has been done this,
last year) they have no power to add any bless-]
ings; and yet they are setting up men as Earthly (
Gods that have no power of themselves to help
themselves: here is the giddy multitude correct-*
ed, from not only what happened in the past ages;
but the present judgments also shew they are led
into blind errors by their teachers, as all ages have
been that have trusted to men after the flesh; but if
they continue regardless of this correction, let
them fear their own destruction. Here is good
advice selected from former ages and from the
present. From the Spirit that searchethall things
even the deep things of G od ; that; has foretold and
forewarned of the past judgments that has lately fell
on us, and threatened more fatal events, that shall
come upon the land, if men go on to mock and
despise the visitation of the Lord. The following*
remark upon the Title Page, he says to be <
c sc- .
c r lectedfrom the Scriptures of Truth/’ by the
Reverend Jeremiah Learnoult Garrett, author O f •
/what he calls) <
c Rays o f Everlasting Light/’— v‘
Now I wish to know what this man is, or what he
hath made himself; that he-shouldr
be the author o f
. Digitized by L t O O O L C t h e
the Rays o f Everlasting Light ? The au thor o f any
light never could come by man, much less the Rays
o f Everlasting Light, for that light must come
from God himselfi it is beyond what ever the
Prophets or the Apostles presumed to give from
their own wisdom ; for the apostle affirmcth, that
every good and perfect gift cometh down from the
Father o f Light, and without his Spirit to quicken
vs, to enlighten and to instruct us, we are counted
dead to every knowledge of G o d ; then how came
this vain boasting man to be the author of E ver­
lasting Light ? Here he hath put himself like his
P'rint, placed above the most High, with the H oly
o f Holies under his- feet, pointing with an arm-
made visable, and.-a sword in his hand, as though he
had all power like the Jews of old to crucify the
Lord afresh: here like the Jews o f old he has writ­
ten the Lamb's wife seated upon a beast with
twelve heads, and the Devil behind her with his
arms close round her j here the abominable wretch
comes forward perfect like the Jews, who said o f
Our Saviour, in the viiith chapter of St. John, 48th
verse— say we not well, thou art a Samaritan and
hast a Devil? Now perfect as the Jews spoke of our.
Lord, so has this wretched author Garrett drawn
the picture of H im ; for whether the Lamb’s wife
be meant in the Revelations as the Church of Christ
at large., or whether it is meant as alluding to a wo­
man as the shadow at first, to claim the promise
made in the Fall— that the powers of darkness may
be destroyed, and the kingdom of Christ might, be
established, that as the Fall came by the arts of the
Devil, seducing the woman in the first place, and
brought the curse on man ; but when that curse is .
removed and cast back on the author's head, which
is the old serpent called the Devil. The marriage o f
the Lamb entirely meaneth Christ and his Church
to be united together in heart and soul, without a-
rival to stand between; but this wretched author
hath placed him in his print, as the Devil close to
the woman, and also close to the Church j for the
Church stands under the similitude of a woman in
4
Digitized by Google many
many places of the Bible. Now by this picture
that he hath drawn, he is coming forth in the com-
pleat spirit of the Jews, placing him (Christ) as a.
Devil seated on a monstrous beast, as though it
were Beelzebub the chief of the Devils, according
to the language o f the Jews ; and he with a sword
going to stab the whole; treading down the holy,
one of Israel beneath him .* here I may add from
his own words— who hath bewitched them that they
should not obey the truth ? I answer this monster
of a man, hath bewitched them like the Jews o f
old, that, they should not believe the Truth of the
Gospel. Oh, vain presumptious man ! to set thy-,
self up above the Holy one of Israel, above the
Scriptures of Truth H
! for all thou-hast placed be­
neath the Holy, Holy, Holy with the Lamb’s wife,
is placed by thee to be destroyed and to be a Devil:
but how shocking is the thought! to take the
scriptures and place them in such a manner with
blasphemy of the blackest dye $ for know, O vain
man ! it is the words of the scripture, it was the vi­
sions of St. John, and it was the words of the an­
gels, to tell them to be glad and rejoice for the
Marriage of the L amb was come, and the wife,
had made herself ready ; the whole heavens sound­
ed as the voice of many waters— that all should
give praises to God, both small and great, at this
glorious news for man. But this proud presump­
tious Garrett, that says he is the author o f “ Rays
of Everlasting Light,” hath put this Light o f the
Gospel to the Devil; and, as a Monstrous Beast, he
is treading down the whole; but as he hath rose
himselfabove what was ever given to man, or dared
to be assumed by man, let him take care he does
not come under the character of the 20th verse in
xixth chapter o f the Revelations-—" And the beast
was taken, and with him the false Prophet, that
wrought miracles before him, with which he de­
ceived them that had the mark o f the Beast, and;
them that worshipped his Image ; these both, were
cast alive into the lake o f fire burning with brim­
stone.” Now see the awful state o f the False Pro-
Digitized by tO O ^ C p f l C C
5
6 .
phct and the Beast, that deceived the people ; now
see this pretended man that have set himself up
above all, adorned his head with the cross and the.
crown\ the axe, the sword and the whip on one
side of the cross; the other side is the spear, the
Trumpet, and the grapes: in this manner he hath
adorned his head, as though in him was all power
Supreme, to reign to govern or to destroy ; b<t un­
der him he hath placed the Rays of Glory with three
H oly’s to be trampled under him, whde all power
is placed over him j in this he hath made himself
more than a man, more than a prophet; but hav­
ing placed upon his own head power divine, as
though he had weapons of power at his command
given to him ; if so, he might well be the author
o f the Rays of Everlasting Light; but whatever
fools he may bewitch, to put their trust in such a
man, he never can bewitch me; for the scriptures
of Truth tells me, that all the power he hath rest­
ed on his head, is in the power of God alone ; it is
He that can draw the sword or sheath it : it is Hi.n
that hath power to use the axe, to lay it to the root
of the Evil Tree, and thereby bruise Satan’s head ;
and this Garrett hath placed it upon his own head,
to be bruised first, as the shadow rf the false Pro­
phet that formed the Beast, and let him take care
that he do not fall with the beast, such presumption
I never saw in man, and out of his own mouth will
I condemn him, for he says in the 16th page of his
book, Christ called the Pharisees a generation o f
vipers for attempting to work out a Righteousness.
But what Righteousness is this man attempting to
work out of his own ? and what honor and power
is he trying to ascribe to himself? he hath placed
the Lamb with the Rays of Glory, and written be­
neath it, Lant-street Mount, the name of the street
where his chapel is, here-he hath placed the whole
G lory of God to himself, if so, he might well
add, that he is the author o f the Rays of Everlast­
ing L igh t; but can he so bewitch the people to-
give all honor and merit to man ? Then to what a
$;a,te is man fallen, if they believe such boasting
Digitized by Google ■ *
' 7
lies ? it is time for the Lord to visit by rtis Spirit.
and bring men out of this darkness into the true
light of the Gospel; and the true light that must
be revealed by his Spirit ; for he confesses himself
the testimony of T
esus is the spirit of prophecy,
and quotes the Revelations xixth chapter, loth
verse ; here he condemns himself, unless he proves
the Spirit of Prophecy is given to him ; but I ne­
ver heard of any prophecies he hath mentioned,
only ascribing to himself honor and power that
never was given to any man ; but some may be
ready to answer, have not I Joanna Southcott, as­
cribed honor to myself thac was never given to a
woman ? to this I answer, 1 never ascribed any hon­
or to myself in my life, nor ever thought highly of
myself; and when this visitation of the Lord came
so powerfully to me in ninety-two, instead of lift­
ing me up with pride, it sunk me lower in my
own eyes, and made me look' upon my own un­
worthiness. The Revelations being explained to
me of the Marriage of the L amb, I never should
have believed it alluded to any woman in the least
as a shadow, if it had not been so dearly explain­
ed, it was but a sh adow and no more than a
name, that was given to. one, to claim the pro­
mise made in the Fall, and my b^ing ready to obey
the command of God in all things, and declare his
will to mankind ; for the Marriage of the Lamb
means uniting all. together as one Sheep under one
Shepherd ; and C hrist to be the Shepherd of the
whole, when the Kingdoms of this world become
the Kingdoms of the L iving God, and every one
is taught of the Lord, then ye will all be the
Lamb’s wife when ye obey his commands. So the
shadow to one.is the substance to all that are now
longing for C hrist’s coming as a bridegroom to
govern the whole; and as the bride obeyeth her 1
husband, so will the brides of Christ obey him,
when he cometh iji Might, M ajesty and Power,
to have the Government upon His shoulders, and
Reign and Rule over his people without’a rival be­
tween, when He hath destroyed, him that hath the
. uigitized by • ,oog e p0Wer.
•power o f death,'which is the Devil. So if men
discern their Bibles clear, they will see mine is but
the shadow only j the Substance must follow to all.
The Fall of Eve was but a lhadow of what diso­
bedience brought afterwards into the world, and
it followed much stronger in her children. So
true obedience is but a shadow of the S p i r i t and •
the B r i d e , and o f what will follow, when the
powers of darkness is taken from man, and every
one is taught o f the L o r d ; and know— it is writ­
ten I am married to you saith the L o r d , then
what has the Spirit ascribed to me, that he does
not promise to all in the end ? I have never ascribed
any thing to my own self, but this vain man, has
ascribed Honor and Power to himself, wisdom and
understanding to himself above the race of man­
kind:
- The answer of the spirit.— Now I shall answer
thee from thejudgment thou hast drawn of thyself,
and from the picture Garrett hath drawn of him­
self, K now : what I told thee befoie, concerning
Garrett, that his life was more hateful to me now,
than when he lived in publick sins, for a proud,'
vain, boasting Pharisee, is worse than the publicans
and open sinners.
8
So from his picture I'll begin,
See how he 'th plac'd it there ,
Upon his head the Cross dostand.
Then let him now take care;
Tfiough over it, he 'th plac'd the crown
T h at ne’er was plac'd by M b ;
I ask him how he can be found
W hen I demand o f he ;
A n d ask him, how, this power came
So great upon his head;
A n d From the sword I this shall name,
Y ou see how it is laid ;
Upon his head, h e 'v e plac'd the sword,
A s though'he was a God,
B ut if he knew my perfect word
He'd tremble at my rod.
T ile axe now see is plac'd to he ‘
Y ou see upon his head*
A s though he'd power the whole to sway
See how the whip is laid O g €
9 m
A scourge for man, can he begin
T o shew his power so great ?
No, No, he’ll find he’s but a man
Puff’d up with self conceit;
And yet to all I thus shall call
He ’th plac'd a type for man;
For on their heads the scourge shall fall*
T^hat mock thy written hand.
T he Grapes of he they sour be,
And so they all will find.
T h e trumpet blow you all do know
T he simple may alarm ;
The sinner here doth so appear
W ith all his weapons arm'd,
Upon his head he all hath laid
T o pull my vengeance down.
And so this Type stands deep for man*
Then tremble at the sound
^For as.the crown is par'*d there,
Parted must be from all
T hat do appear fuch mockers here*
Reject my every calk
So every thing that he hath laid .
T o crown his head so strong, '
I tell thee, it will strike men dead
W hen I in Pow er do come
T o shew them plain, they are but men,
Though they have swell’d so high,
T o think they’ve Power as*a God,
And do M y Power defy.
Now under here let all see clear
T he Holy’s trampled down*
A n d from my Bible I’ll appear—
False Prophet he is found. '
T h e Beast by he so drawn you see.
See how the W oman’s plac’d,
Th« Devil’s joined so with she—
Tremble ye fallen Race!
So from this man the T ype discern,
Let women tremble here,
T h a t mock theMARRiAGE o f the L a m s *
See how they must appear;
T h e Picture stands, I say, from mao
T o shew you all the end;
I f you will bide in Satan's hands,
And mock your L ord and F riend;
Thou knowest before I told thee heie,
T hat this would be their end,
T h a t wish the pr o m i se not to share,
Nor claim M e as their Friend.
N ow from this man yon may discern,
His Mockery came ffom Hell, ^
W here he with lies would you deceive, .
Because his rage doth swell
Against the Bride on every aide, *
A nd all believers too;
But from the Fall, I tell you all,
T h at way he did pursue,
• ./ £ * Close
Digitized by Google
Close to flie woman he appeal’d,
And so he holds her fast ;
And no+v in man he strong is come,
That it might ever last; *
For he the same, to hold her frame,
I told thee this before ;
Though in the Serpent first he came,
In n<an he’d now appear
T o tempt her strong for to go on
Fast bound in Satan’s chain ;
And so in G arrett now he’s come
T o frighten thee the same ;
Because to thee, they all must see
He meant the picture there,
Upon the Beast as plac’d to be,
And Satan plac’d fo near;
The heads before that do appear,
He 'th plac’d to mock the whole,
Just as the Serpent did appear
T o make the woman’s fa ll;
He mock’d the word, I faid at first,
And fill’d her with a lie,
And now in man he so do burst,
A s I before ^lid fay:
But can he clear his Picture here,
T o point it out to thee,
W hen this I told thee all before,
In man these -things would be ?
So now in man he here is come
A serpent as the first ;
His subtle arts must now be known,
He wish’d to have thee cast;
B ut this to thee can never be
But what I warn’d before,
Y et unbelievers now may see
Their fatal end appear;
The Picture strong by him is drawn,
T o shew them Satan’s power,
How strong he holds them by his hand,
And mocks My every Honour,
For to redeem from Hell and sin,
He'd have them not believe;
But as the Fall by woman came <
So tainted strong by EV E,
He holds them so, they shall not go
M y Promise for to claim ;
And where he ’th footing, I do know
He’ll hold them in that chain,
Still to believe the L ord deceives,
And Satan’s words are true ;
The Woman’s Fall he’ll ne’er reprieve,
He lays before their view ;
As.be begun he will go on,
And hold her at the last.
These monstrous heads he fill’th in men -
T hat are joined with the Beast,
So here you see the world to be
Drawn by this Picture here;
* - Th#
10
Digitized by Google
The Woman they deceive like he,
Her fall I’ll never clear 5
Such heads of men to monsters come '
T he Beast deceives them all ;
T h e Holy W ord that came from G od •
T hey now reject the call ;
And tread itdown in every sound, ’
And mock my Bible too;
Just as the Picture there is found .
T h a t’s now before thy view ;
T hey’d frighten thee, I now do see /
W ith all the arts of Hell;
But now look to Gethsemane;
See how the Jews did swell,
T heir rjilers there that did, appear .
See how the Priests did come,
And how they clamour’d for my Blood,
A s men for thine hath done.
But now t.00 late I’ll tell their fate,
T h is clamouring’s all in vain ;
T h ey ’ll only bring it on their heads,
Now see the Picture plain;
Upon his head he’th plac’d the sword,
Then there the sword must come ;
11
T he sword of vengeance he must tear,
And know he's but a man.
Now mark the axe, how it is fixt,
. Close to the Root appears,
Because that Satan leads him on,
Then sure the branch is there-;
I f then the Tree the branch now be '
T hat I compar'd the man,
T h e Roptof Evil is in he,
And down they both must eome.
A s on his head the axe is laid,
So let him now to fear,
I f he the Holy down will tread,
And mock my Bible here, .
For to deceive the simple heads
That can’t the Picture see.
B y Satan’s arts the whole was drawn, ;
Thinking to frighten thee,
But that’s in vain, I now tell men, 7
M y Bible it shall stand ;
I said the woman l*d redeem.
I f you can it command;
For as in Adam first you died, ’
(Now see my Bible clear)
’ T is said that I shall make alive, •:
And your Redemption clear.
So from this way, to all I say,.
The Woman I must free;
But Satftn dreads to let you go— ;
The Picture all may see; ,
He ’th drawn it strong to shew he’s come’
T o hold you in the Fall j
T h at your Redeemer ne’er may come,
Your Ransom pay at all. . ^
Digitized by C j O O ^ l G
12
So unbelief brings on your grief,
And Satan holds them fast ;
W hile Satin’s head on Monsters laid
In Man he now do burst
T o join the Beast; the woman's breast
T hey’re wounding now the same,
T h at she in unbelief may last,
And never know my name,
Her conquering Saviour to appear,
A s I of her was bom ;
T o pierce her foe with every spear
M y mother she had known,
She lelt within the every sting
From Satan's poisonous dart,
B ut all shall find, now in the end,
He'll feel it to his heart;
Though he may swell in rage from hell,
And champions gain in man ;
Becauie his branches I know well
How strong for him they’ll stand;
Like Garrett here they will appear
T o hold the woman so,
In Satan’s hand they still may stand.
T hey'll never let her go.
B y heads o f men, I tell thee plain,
Such monsters will appear,
A s in the Picture now is seen,
T o hold the woman there ;
T h a t in the Fall, I tell you all,
She ever must remain.
So they’ll go on to mock the call,
I never shall redeem .
Her every Fall, they tell you «U;
Such monsters will abound ;
For Satan’s close unto them all,
T hey may rejeet the sound.
So now see>plain the heads of men,
W hat monsters stand before,
T o keep the woman in her den,
And Satan close is there.
B ut now to thee’t can never be j
No man did thee support,
W hen I began, thou knowest, to warn/
T hey told thee to thy hurt
T hou didst go on, to M e ’tis known,
For Satan’s arts were there ;
Then know there were no monstfous heads
T o make thee persevere.
So unto man ’t can never come
T o build thy faith before,
B u t now the Picture you discern
How they do both appear ;
T he heads of men before are seen
And Satan close behind;
T h e woman like an airy dream '
Is now by both confin’d j
B u t know to thee this cannot be, -
Because thou hadst dp man...............
Digitized by Goog Thai
T h at ever with thee did agree,
Or tell thee to go op,
Before the Truth I’d made so clear,
T he calling was from Heaven ;
A nd then, thou knowest it was but one
From whom the words were given
T o have it known, and fly abroad
So thou goest on alone,
A nd know thy hand none can command
T o say they press thee on.
For all thy faith did come from M e,
W ithout the power of man,
B ut now this woman you must see,
W hat monstrous heads are come,
T o stand before, she can't get clear,
And Satan close behind.
T h is, with the world I'll now compare,
And women so will find,
T h e heads of men, to them will come;
And say they must remain
A s in the Fall, they’ll tell them all,
And Satan close behind.
Thus will go on the heads o f men
T o make the woman fall,
Fast to be bound in Satan’s chain,
T he Picture stands for all
13
That now believe, I never shall redeem woman
from the transgression of the Fall, and many men
that have the heads o f the Beast, wilL stand before
"her, that she may not.believe, and Satan’s arts will
be close behind her. So here is the true Picture of
the world drawn by Garrett with the Devil as close
to him, as he hath drawn it to the woman; and now
mark where he hath placed the Lamb, with Lant-
streetMount, alluding to where hisChapelis.O vain
simple man, he might well place a lanthorn to find
it, but I, tell him he’ll not find it there; yet in that
he hath drawh a true Picture of the World; for
this is now the madness and folly of mankind,
they are gone out like false Christ’s, telling man­
kind the knowledge of Christ must come from
them; then I tell them my Bible is false, for when
jit cometh to the end, know it is written, the Lord
must be revealed; but where is it written this Reve­
lation must come from man? Now from his own
texts of Scripture, that he quoted in his Picture, I
shall condemn him. The ist.Corinthians xvch chap­
ter, 45th verse, it is written “ the first man Adam
“ was made a living soul, the-last Adam Was made
yGoogle Ihall
Digitized by '
14
“ a quickening S p i r i t i n the aad verse, in the
same chapter, it is written, “ for as in Adam all
“ died, even so in Christ shall all be made alive.”
Then cometh the end. Now where wiil this man,
with his boasting and exalting himself, prove that
the quickening Spirit came from man ? for man is
of the Earth earthly; the second man is the Lord
from Heaven.- here from the texts that he hath
quoted, he hath entirely condemned himself, unless
he will boastingly say, he is the Lord from Hea­
ven, and had that power over his head, that he hath
placed upon his head ; and can he so bewitch the
multitude, to believe in his lightness and in his
Lies? But know, O vain presumptuous man, that if
we are made alive in Christ, as we died in Adam,
you must know how we died in Adam, lest you
handle the scriptures deceitfully: Did Adam say his
disobedience came by the subtlety of the Devil ?
You must answer no; he said it came by the hand
of the woman, and he obeyed her; but the woman
said it came by the subtlety of the Serpent, and by
her ignorance she obeyed Him. Then where is the
Philosopher or the Divine can prove by any other
way, we are made alive in Christ, to be re­
deemed from the Fall, but by the power of
Christ working in the woman to bring her to true
obedience to obey all his commands, as Eve obeyed
the subtlety of the serpent? and man to be brought
to this redemption in Christ, must follow her obe­
dience and join with her, as Adam joined with
E ve: there is no other way these words can be
fulfilled— that as in Adam all died, even so in
Christ shall all be made alive. And now I tell thee
and all mankind, if an angel came down from Hea­
ven and preached any other doctrine than this, he
must be accursed, and like the fallen Angels to
dishonour the Son who died for the redemption of
man. For I tell thee, whoever addeth to, or
taketh herefrom, taketh his part out of the Book
o f Life; for this was the very end of my Death—■*
to come and do my Father’s will, and frustrate all
the schemes o f the Devil, and bring his guilt upon
Digitized by Goog e hia
his own head, as I have now brought Garrett’s Pic­
ture upon his own head; that the power he hath
placed there, is my judgment that he has to fear,
-and all such as are like him. And now see, from
the Picture of the woman, in what manner he hath
drawn her; just so are Men and Devils filling up
women now, with every sinful lust and pleasure of
this world, that they may mock the pure and inno­
cent in heart, aslshmael mocked Isaac; but know
it is written, the Son of the Bondswoman shall not
be heir with the Son of the Free. Now mark how
the woman is drawn, seated upon the Beast in Bonds
and confined with the heads of men before, and the
Devil close behind her, as though he was tempting
her to trust to men, and not to the Lord. In this
manner he hath placed the picture, then let women
fear and tremble, that are thus seated upon the
Beast. Now answer for thyself by whom thou hast
been pressed to go forward, and whom thou hast
obeyed, and I shall answer thee again.”
As I am called to answer for myself, I do de­
clare, that in the beginning of my visitation, every
man’s hand was against me that had any knowledge
thereof; so 1 went on alone by myself, pressed by
a Spirit of Power, that I could not resist; and be­
ing filled with faith and fear, I waited to see the
Truths of the Spirit, before I relied entirely upon
■ ft, that 1 might be clear in my own judgment it
was from the L ord. As to man, I never could be
biassed by, nor rely upon any man’s judgment in
my life; for I have frequently gone from one place
of worship to another, and heard the Ministers
preach one against the other, and was convinced,
that they must have placed the Bible wrong ; this
also convinced me, that no man’s judgment was
right; but every man placed the Bible according to
his own belief, and his own faith. So I trusted to
my faith alone, knowing every good and perfect
gift came from God, and to Him alone was my
trust; and from the Spirit that visited me, the only
way I thought to try the Spirit, was by the Truth
that followed his words; and as to the Revelation
15
Digitized by Google
of the Bible,' the meaning of it was explained to
me. I relied upon the wards given to me from the
Truth that had followed in my Prophecies; the
different judgments that are drawn by mankind,
truly convinced me they had only their own opini­
on, without knowledge; for if the knowledge of the
Scripture* had been made known to man, then all
men’s knowledge must have been as one; but as
they are not, I trust to no man’s judgment or un­
derstanding, neither do I now rely upon the belief
or unbelief of any man; my reliance is upon the
word of God, that always commanded me, from
1794 to this day, that whenever twelve men met
together to prove mv writings with me, to their
judgment I should give it up; and in 1796, I was
shewn from the weather,(as a type set before me) o f
the number of days in which there was no rain in
the time of Harvest, such should be the number
o f men chosen to meet together and prove my
writings. I was particular in marking every day;
it was twenty-three days before the Rain came; and
twenty-three men and a child were first assembled
together, chosen of the Lord, to prove my writ­
ings.* To their judgment I gave up, as a com­
mand from the Lord; but not because it was the
belief of man. Again I was commanded, and it
has been publicly asserted, that if twenty-four
came forward to join the other twenty-four, (as a
man was chosen to come forward wich the child,)
to their judgment I should give it up ; so I did as
a command from the Lord ; but not from the judg­
ment of men : for if every man upon earth was to
assure me my calling is of God, if I had not clear
and strong grounds to believe it myself, I never
should rely upon their belief. So my hand is not
strengthened by man, in any other way than by the
fulfilment of the words of the Lord : and as to the
Devil, he hath used every art and every threaten­
ing, that hell could invent to make me give up my
* On January 12, 1803, twenty-three persons assembled
at High-hous», Paddington, foretold above six years ago.
writings;
16
Digitized by V j O o q L e
writings; therefore Garrett has drawn a wrong
picture, to say the devil pressed me to go on. Let
them read my Disputes with the Devil, and men
woolcl soon be convinced l never was pressed for*
ward by him ■, for had I listened to him, or to men,
in the beginning, my writings would never have
gone out into the world j but from the arts that Sa­
tan has used to stop my hand, and try to persurde
me to believe the Lord would never fulfil the
Promise he made in the Fall, makes me tremb’e
for those unforcunate women whom Garrett has
shewn in the Picture their situation in more deadly
colours than I ever saw before; and the explanation
that is given, is a strong proof to me how much the
devil wishes to keep us under the condemnation of
the Fall j that I would not now. disobey the com­
mand of God, in one single instance if I knew it,
for ten thousand worlds. If 1 was to do so, I see
what my situation would be, after once being en­
lightened, failing back a prey to the devil.
Now, Joanna, I shall answer thee: Garrett, under
the influence of the devil, hath drawn a Picture to
shew the fatal end of women that a;e determined to
resist the Promise, and abide under the condemna­
tion of the Fall, through unbelief; because such
monsters of men will place them upon the Beast
there to remain} but know the visions drawn
by Joseph*, the woman’s dart over -Satan’s head,
with a man in armour to chain him down. Now'
all men will see in the end the truth of these V i ­
sions shewn by Me, to those that put cn the whole
armour of God, arid believe in Satan’s destruction
and Man’s Redemption, which, is impossible to take
place while the condemnation of the Fall lietli
upon the Woman} therefore her guilt must be a-
venged on the Serpent’s head that betrayed her.— ■
Thus I have shewn the Vision on the one hand, to,
the fulfilment of my Bible; but now see the,
wretched daubing of a man on the other hand,
thinking to turn my Bible into mockery : but lee
him know, he is joined with the Beast, uj the xiit!>
* The Visions of Joseph Prescott, at Mr. Carpenter's.
c ^ G o o g l e «***“ *'
17
' 18
chapter of the Revelation, in the 15th verse,—?
** And the Serpent cast out of his mouth water as
a flood after the woman, that he might cause her to
be carried away of the Flood. Now 1 shall answer
thee from these words, as the serpent beguiled Eve
in the Garden o f Eden, with subtilty and lies, so
hath this Garrett tried to deceive all the same.—
Where is the man can justify his Picture, but like
the Serpent’s beguiling Eve, telling them all they
shall be preserved if they trust in him? See how he
hath placed the Lamb with the R aysofLighc to be
seated in the street where his chapel is ; perfect so,
I now tell thee, were the words of the devil to Eve,
“ Y e shall be as Gods knowing Good and E v il,”
if she listened to him. Now here is the complete
serpent in Garrett, to fulfil the Revelation, casting
out water as floods; Now I shall tell thee the
meaning of water; I compared my Word and my
Spirit to a well of water, springing up to everlast­
ing Life, and I have compared inyVVprd to wells of
living water. Then if my W ord is compared to
water tq bring forth the fruits of the Spirit, as the
showers of rain bring forth the fruits of the earth,
let no man marvel that I have compared the rage
and malice of the devil, to the raging waves o f
the sea, that is full of tempestuous waters ; for know
I have told -thee already, like the boisterous waves
o f the sea, the devil would work in men’s hearts
against thee ; and these floods he is now casting out
in man; but herein Garret is shewing himself in
his true colours, for he is come to frighten thee, if
he could, by his wretched daubing, and of drawing '
a picture as the serpent beguiled Eve. But as con­
science is thy witness, thou hast no heads of men tq
lead thee on, ana the powers of darkness are strong
to oppose thee, .tfae likeness that he hath drawn
is of himself and the world, and as a complete ser­
pent throwing out floods against thee,, by a raging,,
foaming, wicked heart. But now remember what
I told thee o f a King, when the man made the coat
of poison for him, the king compelled the man to
wear it i and in seeking the king’s life, he lost his
own
Digitized by Google
own; and know I told thee, I- should act like that
king; and like the king I am acting here ; for
there vi%s not more poison put iii the king’s coat,
than Garrett hath drawn in his Picture, to cause a
death, both spiritual and temporal, to every soul
that putteth on : that meaneth, to every one that
believes.the Picture is suitable for thee; but by the
warnings I have given thee before, thou art warn­
ed like the king that it is full o f poison. Now keep
the Picture with care* an<^ see there is such an­
other monster upon earth, who will support a draw­
ing like that— Blasphemy of the highest. But all
these things must arise to fulfil the Scriptures ; and
all these things were known to M e before : by
what subtle arts the serpent would work in man;
that meaneth, the old serpent, the devil. But
water as floods could not be cast out, if he did not
work in man, to make a serpent of man ? This must
be to fulfil the Revelation: and by these things ye
see the Truth before you. Now mark the 16th
verse — The earth helped the woman, and the earth
opened her mouth and swallowed up the floods
which the dragon cast out of his mouth. Now the
Earth meaneth Man, that was made of the dust of
the ground. Now let this be deeply observed by
all men, though the malice of others has been from
the devil as an angel of light; but the malice o f
Garrett is come like the devil in his true colours,
boasting himself above all. as though he had power
as a God, and his words like the devil’s, to deceive
with lies and malice, casting out his floods ; while,
on the other hand, men are helping the-woman,
they are opening their mouths against the Serpent,
and discerning the floods that he is casting out.
And now I tell thee, they will be dried up, for
he must be swallowed up and confounded in his
own craftiness, as there is not a man upon earth that
can supportGarrettiri the Picture that he hath drawn,
unless it be a man that will acknowledge he is a
friend to the devil. Let them discern with what
power he hath crowned his'head, and what he hath
put under him ; then draw their judgment as men;
r j i . . , * i • Digitized *' ■ ° ^
and 1 shall answer thee again.
19
20
Copy of a Letter to the Printer of the
« B O L U S ”
Feb. 2, 1805.
AS a Book was brought to me the other day with
the most shocking Blafphemy that ever was read, and I
Enow not where to write to the author, conscience compels
me to write to the Printer ; the awful sin of such shocking,
horrid, and presumptuous blasphemy, as one should sup­
pose could scarcely be penned by any one born in a Chris­
tian Land ; I mean the Prayer at the end of the Pamphlet,
called a “ Bolus,” said, printedfor an unbeliever, and very
rightly he might stile himself so ; tor if he believed there
Was a God whose eye. was every where prefent, and that
our secret thoughts as well as public actions were ad open
to the eyes of Jehovah ; that the Heavens were no curtains
to screen from his sight, no man would dare to make such
a prayer to the devil, unlefs he wished to go with him,
and to pull down divine vengeance upon his head. You
may answer, it is not the man’s prayer to the devil, but a
prayer he alludes t6 Mr. Carpenter; ashesaith in the 7th
page of that Book, it was Carpenter’s prayer, to be “ O
fnost mighty Lucifer, & c/’ : in this he makes himself sirt
seven fold worse than he would to pray to the d e v i l c a n
he blind the eves of the Almighty? Can he stop the ears,
of the Most High r Can he fo mock God, and trifle with
Eternity, to think the Lord as well as man, does not know
Mr. Carpenter's prayers, that they are addressed to the'
most high God, that dwelleth in the Heavens above, and*
amongst the habitations of the Earth below r and will he
tfaringly and presumptuously call that God a “ Mighty L11-.
cifer,” that has transformed himself into an Angel of
Light ? My soul trembled, my nerves shook, to hear such
horrid blasphemy read; yet I fear the wretched author,'
who turned the prayers that were made to God, who like
the Jews of old, said it was the devil , yet i believe the
wretch’s heart, (or at least I fear it) may turn his own*
words to the Devil, that he wished to join him hand and
heart to the advancement of his kingdom v if this was not*
the language of his heart, he never could so brave and
mock the Almighty to his face, as to call his <Kingdom a
.
* Kingdom of Fire and Brimstone!' But such presumptu-'
ous wretch may fear, that he may provoke the Lord to an­
ger— that he will be as ‘ a fire unto him' that can so daring­
ly mock his name. He is calling down vengeance upon his
own head, as though he was bidding defiance tb the power
of
of the Most High. I know not how any man could print
it, and not tremble at what he was doing; for every man
of reason must know the Lord was mocked through that
prayer. It is no disgrace to Mr. Carpenter, foraliknow-
eth what his Prayers are,’ and to whom they are made; but
it shews to the world, Mr. Carpenter’s enemies are as bold
and presumptuous against the Lord,as they are against him;
men whose conscience are seared as with a hot iron, drink­
ing down iniquity as the ox drinketh water; yet he is
ashamed to have his name known amongst men, tearing his
■ deeds-shall he reproved ; but can any one hide himself iti
•secret from the Lord, that he doth not hear and see ? As to
his malice against me, I do not marvel at; for a man that
can mock God in such a manner, with such bold presump­
tion, and back it with lies— to say that author should make
such prayers, to call the Lord such names ; I do not mar­
vel that such a wretch, who is so much at enmity against
God, should be at enmity against his followers; such
wretched principles as I never saw penned before ; add to
this, the Bolus he is preparing for himself, how doth he
think to drink it down, whe/i the judge of quick and dead
demands of him when such words were spoke by Carpen­
ter ? Conscious guilt must then condemn him, and his
. knees like Belshazzar to smite one against the other, say-*
ing, it was I that mocked the M ost H tgh, and turn-
4
< ed the name of the L ord to Lucifer; and in my mock-
“ ery prayed for Hell ; the Lord is just to answer my
<l prayers:” thus he must confess the Lord is just; first
conscience,must tell him, I signed Satan’s destruction ;
but now my mind is changed, I have made a prayer for
the revival of his kingdom, and I have mocked the most
High God, that Satan may not be offended with me, and
now too late I see the Bolus, that I have prepared for my­
self. O , how shocking is the thought, to see a mail begin
in the Spirit, professing he longeth for the kingdom of
Christ; to be establised, and all the works of the devil de­
stroyed, and now to end in the flesh, and mock the God he
professed to wish fo r; and pray to prolong the reign of
the devil. This makes me tremble to ' see the hardened
state of man; yet what have I to marvel at, when I see
there are such teachers as our Saviour spoke of, that will
compass sea and land, to make one prosolite, and when he
is made, ye make him two fold more the child of Hell than
yourselves. , Seethe xxiiid. chapter of Matthew, verse the
15th, this is plainly proved by tne erroneous book publish­
ed by Garrett, who calls himself a Preacher; but in the
book that he hath published, tllfcre is not one place that he
hath pointed out for me, but is full of the most notorious
lies. Is it possible for a man to say he is a preacher of
rthe Gospel, and sign his name to invented lies ? Besides the
Scriptures, that he hath pointed out,* bring him under the
character of a false Priest and a false Prophet, prophesy-
. 21
Digitized by Google in§
* M
!r,g out of his own heart, and from his own spirit, to de­
ceive the people with his own lightness and his lies: un­
less he will boldly affirm, the I ord hath visited him as a
true Prophet, to whom the Lord hath spoken, and repealed
his will unto him ; but as he never m. ntioncd his prophe­
cies, or pretended to be a Prophet till iv»w, he cannot make
that bold assertion; therefore, he hath brought himself
Tinder the character of the false Priest, and the" false pro­
phet, that prophesieth out of his own heart, saving Peace,
when there is no Peace, that he may deceive the" people,
by promising them life if they trust in him: that none of
these dangers that are threatened will overtake them ; but
of him I shall say no more for the present, as I shall pub­
lish his abominable Lies to the world, and explain thd
chapters that he’ hath quoted. As my character will bear
the strictest scrutiny, and my Trial is gone but in the world
from reputable witnesses, 1 do not want to write'to you or
him to defend nry own innocence; and it would be but
Casting pearls betore swine, and that that is holy before
dogs—to contend wdth a man that i-s so full of Lies- as Gar­
rett. The meaning ot this letter to you is. to send it to
the author of the wretched blasphemy in the iv.uk called a
ki Bolus.v If you do not send it to him, to convince him
of his errors, I shall put this letter in print, that he may
seethe black crimes he is committing; as I find the pre­
tended Preachers are only joining with him in his lies and
Maspheiny, to strengthen the hand of evil doers ; while they
pretend at the same time, they are filled with the rich grace
the Lord ! Like the Scribes and Pharisees* of old, that
iu3de them boast they were better than others, and pre­
tended as though they had the Spirit of the Lord, fighting
Wit-h the Sw ord of his Word, w hen they put the Lord of
Lite and Glory to-Death! O what a false fire doth the de-
til fill up mem with, to mhke them float in presumption,*
if he cannot tempt them to sink in despair; doing the de­
vil’s drudgery in Christ's livery, plow little do these men
know of true religion! exercising themselves in* things
toohigh for thefiiv judging of things they know nothing
about, which is strongly "forbid throughout the Gospel. —
But here I shall break off with assuring Garrett, he never
had any Letter sent him by any desire of mine; and this
Letter is hot sent for liim, but tha unfortunate Author o f
the Pra>yer i.-r the%
“ Bolus which I should not have
troubled you with, if you had prirrted his name. • 1
* This taken from Joanna Soutficott’s mouth; by mo,"
• “ * *
■ ,*
■ 7 ( * ' ’
' ; * l ■ *
• ANN UNDERWOOD. !
; *
.•- ; 1 ' ?'T L. f * • ,
„' ' ‘ v
fbEALEyPrinter, i 6 o , TtfltCuh<*n-Court-liotr& ‘ j
' Digitized by Google
