{"name":"The Second Book Of The Sealed Prophecies","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1805__southcott___the_second_book_of_the_sealed_prophecies.pdf","mytitle":"The Second Book Of The Sealed Prophecies","mylang":"de"}
SECOND BOOK
O
F THE
S E t A R E B P R O P M M C I E & i
/-N ADDRESS TO THE PUBLIC, WRITTEN IN 17Q0+
Takenfrom theSeated Writings ofJoanna Southcott,
" '- February 20, the Fast Day, 1805.
e'aty t) Heavens! and be a$trini§hSd, O
Earth ! the Lord hath a controversy with liia people:
Have -1 nourished, and brought up children, and
they- have.rebelled against m e ? W hat fault did
your fathets find; in m e , that ye seek after othef
gods ifo ydim hurt ? . But to come • to:the' purpose :
wherefore' hate.We fasted, say ye, and tbie Lord re-
eardeth us' nbt ? Have ye not fasted for strife and
'debate, and to ' smite with the fist of wickedness ?
If ye lift upi your hands against m e shall ye prosper ?
Now bringforth yotit arguments,' shew youf Strong
feasohs, why . ye complain of judgments in youf
land ? W h y d6 ye grope for the wall like the blind;
and stumble at the noon-day sun ? ar.J will ye still
go on till ye f'oar like bears, and mourn sore like
doves, and .be in desolate place's, as dead mdn ?
Where Are your Bibles ? Is the word of God bea
come as a book that is sealed; that neither learned
nor unlearned can read it? Is it not Written, when
I come from Edom, with dyed garments from Boz^
rah,' treading the wine-press of my Father’s wrath,
that the day Of vengeance was in my heart? And U
A , ' ■
S. RouflW
u, Printer,
W
oodStretf, Spa^Fields#
Digitized by Qoogle
it not written, that as I once trod it for sinners I will
tread it against them ? Revelation xix. Presump­
tuous men, will-ye tread it against m e , when I have
9aid I would destroy Babylon, and all the gods that
tliey set up ? for they shall eat the flesh of kings,
and the flesh of captains, and I will destroy the
work of men’s hands: It is I that bound their kings
in phains and their nobles in fetters of iron. As they
trust in man, let them see if man can deliver them,
and fle'c to their popes to establish their throne; then
will l own they have power to pardon; bat if not,
look unto m e , all ye to the ends of the earth, and be
ye s'aved : he that will not look to the Cross at Cal-
yary for salvation, will surely perish, for the Lord
hath spoken i t ; tlien let not men' be mockers, lest
their bgnds be made strong: for I have heard from
the Lord .God a consumption, even a determination
itpon the whole, earth.
' Judge these lines t0 be the wisdom of man,
for; they are spoken tom e by an invisible Spirit,
that told me in 179 2, what was coming on this na-
* tion.ahd.all others, and to seal it up,; and these seals
have not been broken since, as can be proved by re­
putable witnesses * ; and every year I have been told
yrhat would happen, and ordered to want the nation ,
/ o f theif dangers in keeping on the w ar; but .was
1 prevented publishing it by unbelievers, who said
| the war would not last long, and that peace and
plenty would soon be in our land; and did not be­
lieve the Spirit that told me all things was true. So
1 deferred till I saw their unbelief prevented no­
thing, but all came oh as I was foretold. And now
I say God is true, and I may say in my haste all
men are liars, as I see they prophesy out of their
own hearts and have seen nothing ; and their words
are wrong, .but the words of the Spirit are true. I f
any serious divine wishes to know what founda­
tion I build upon, to warn men of dangers that they
think 1 have no grounds for, I am ready to prove
' * This isexplained in the book of the Trial.'
' Digitized by Google
2 A LETTER SEALED VP Ilf 179$.
FBOFH ECI^ ? h b r e ik now m a o s m a n if e s t . 3
by my pealed writings which I can prove were never
■ broken: the one sealed in 17 9 2 ; me.second sealed
in 1 7 9 4 the third in ,1795 ; the last in 17 9 $ ,, with
witnesses. Quench not the Spirit, despise not Proi
phecjes, unless you deny the knowledge of the Lord,
aifrl make your Bibks af no effect. - .
The "Explanation o f the above, given tp jo a jin jv
by the S p i r i t , Wednesday, Feb. 20 , 1805. 0
“ Now I shall answer thee the meaning of this
letter, why I ordered' thee to write it at; that time*
and concealed from thee why it should not go in
print at that time, till after thou hadst written it.
But now remember the title * , that 1 ordered thee
to put in print, is like the address to the public that
1 ordered thee then to write; but writing at that
__ time is to shew from types and shadows how things
are spoken, as though they were immediately to be
fulfilled. Now remember, when this was written
thou thoughtest to have put it immediately in the
paper in print, and knew no other till I forbade;
then it was sealed up at the end of the year for a
time to com e; and now the time is come to shew
the truthof the letter and the words that were penned-
Now I shall go on to shew thee the words of men:
from the time these words were written unto this
day, how strong did men assure thee all dangers
were over, of dearth, scarcity, and the continuation
o f war. How did they assure you in 1707 there
would be a peace ?. and how many assured thee
the harvest would be good? Now I- ask thee
i f either of these came true ? In thy heart thou
answerest, N o : The words of the Spirit came
tru e; but the words o f men were • false. lq
17 9 7 they assured thee again of a good'har-r
vest; but did that come true ? Thou answerest,
* This alludes to the title of the Fourth Part of tbe Explanations
the Bible.
/ ' A %
Digitized by Google
N o : hej-e the words of men were false, but the
words of the Spirit were true. In the 1 600, they
assured thee again the harvestwould be good; but
did their words come true ? Thou answerest, N o :
, the words of men were false, but the words of the
Spirit were true. Now I shall come to the 1801:
after thy prophecies were out in the world, of the
three good harvests, thou knowest that the beginning
of that harvest was with fain; and many told thee
the fervent sun that came between the showers
would make the corn fall out in the field;, and bring.
'a greater dearth than the former j «but did their
words come true ? ' Thou answerest. N o : I stopped
1 the rain in the midst of their dangers, as I promised
' thee before, for the sake of those who enquired to
| hntm the truth. Here the words of the Spirit came
' true, but the words of men were false. Again, in
1 3802, thou knowest when they were ringing for
peace, I told thee the war would break out in the
following year; but no man believed thee, unless
it was they that believed the word of God was come
to thee; for they believed the word of the Lord would
be true, and true thou hast found it; but wrong
was the judgment of men. So in all things thou
canst now say boldly, let Qod be true, and every
man a liar, that denieth the truth of his words ; for
where is the truth thou canst prove from men ? or
where is their judgment that thou canst rely on !
In thy heart thou answerest none, neither in wisdom
nor. in t r u t h ‘but from the Spirit thou seest wisdom
and truth before thee. So hfcre is the truth of the
words'now fulfilled with a double witness; the wit­
ness of the Spirit, -that thou hast seen before from
the truth, and the witness of the Spirit thou hast
seen since; so now thou canst boldly affirm thy own
words: that men''prophesy out of their owri.hearts and
have seen nothing^ and their words are wrong; but
J
he Spirit is true. Here I have explained what fql-
pweih from thyself, and now I shall explain what
4 THE LETTER SBALE© UP IH 1790, :
Digitized by Google
WAS A T Y P S OF W HAT IS NOW FU LFILLIN G . $
followed! further: tFhis was to be published to the
WOrld, to know if any serious divine Wished to know
what foundation thou hadst for thy prophecies, and to
make an enquiry. Now consider this was .sealed
up, concealed from the world,' from 1796 to the
1801 ; then thy writings went out, to try the di*>
vines, and some made serious enquiry; but this ad- ‘
Vertisement did not stop there; consider the letters
that have been sent to warn the clergy; consider
the advertisements that have been in the papers, to '
warn all, meri ; then now discern all men* though
this was not put in the paper, nor published'at pie
time I ordered' thee to write it; yet it was a shadow
of what was to come; and now see what hath fol­
lowed in the course of years already, after its being
so long sealed up from the world. And new 1 tell
thee and all men> as these words were, given to thee ,
in 1796, and I ordered them to be' put In print,' blit
when thou wast going to obey I forbade it at that
time, till the truth was more dear before thee-; 'and ,
now the truth is more clear before thee, the letter
with’ m y answer to it must go imprint. I do not tell
thte in the newspaper; but let it be written in a
bode, that all men might know that what I say T
mean to accomplish, though it’ is not done imme­
diately. Now as these words, that were written so
maiiy years agone, which thou judged must imme­
diately be pur in print, but was deferred till this
time, and are now ordered to be put in print; per-
fectly so, I tell thee and all men, the prophecies
that men have expected to be hastily fulfilled, and
because they Were not, think they never will, as-
thou never thoughtest the wortlsj spoke to thee for
the :public-would ever be made known, as it was
then deferred ; but I tell thee, deferring of a thing
does not mean it shall never be done; and all that
is deferred in thy writings shall perfectly be fulfilled,
as these Words must go in print, that thou didst Write
by my command to go in print in 1796- And now
I shall, explain to thee of the 'Revelation: know
Digitizedby Google
when Babylon is destroyed, and the blood of the
. martyrs is avenged -upon the Romans, it must come
by the vengeance of Heaven, and notv
by the power
. o f man.. Now mark what; began in France, and
how the Romans were seeking, their own destruction
before .other nations began to interfere; then to con-
‘ vince mankind I would .,not shew my judgments by
the power of men; for then they would say no
judgments had followed them but. the power Of
other nations had cruelly destroyed them ; so to pre­
vent this judgment of men I raised them up and
gave them power when other nations were fighting
-against them; but my judgments lie;.still behind;
(
and when they think their troubles are .over their
destruction will come on. Now mark the judg­
ments that were in Spain, by the plagpe, by the fa­
mine, by earthquakes, and by every trouble that
was upon them ; and these judgments-would have
went-on till they were convinced the judgments o f
•yjGod were upon them, if your land hadtiot inter-
\ fered with a war. But if I destroy them with the
' sword of war, they must say the judgments and th e.
power are of man, and not of G o d ; therefore, I tell
thee, ye are but preventing the judgments.upon
these nations, by your war and contending with
them : but judgments are mine, and I shall repay
them, knd turn the blood of. the martyrs back on
their heads by my judgments, that they may see.my
Bible-is fulfilled.- Therefore it is written in the Re­
velation* it is I that tread the wine-press of my F a ­
ther’s wrath ; but how can this be discerned if 1 give
the power to mian ? then to man t give the vic­
tory ; but I tell .thee, when I come .to fulfil, my
-Bible, I will give no victory tom an, unless it be
/ through m y commands, that all men may know
/ it is I the Lord have done it, that all nations may
' fear my Name. Therefore I tell thee, no happiness
can be iiv your land, nor any prosperity, as long as
1 the sword of the war (Continues: for all nations shall
' know their visitations, and afflictions, and j udgmeiui
6 THE TYPE OP THE LBTTBRtOF 179$ CQNTJHHED.
Digitized by Google
come from- God, and not from man. Now let
them discern what there is in all nations; •and what
hath followed your nation, ever since ye began in
the war. Mark every harvest, ‘how many bad har­
vests have followed since the war began, and how
they were all foretold to come as judgments; and
as judgments they have come. N ow mark the
. words that I said to thee, or thou didst write them
in m y name— 1 have heard from the Lord God a
. consumption, even a determination upon the whole
earth. A consumption meaneth consuming; and
let them see how they have been consumed in all na­
tions with :different judgments; ■and ydt these are
but shadows of what is to cdmeV, as thy writing the
.words, in 1796, was but a shadow of its now being
made public; perfectly so, I tell thee, as this hath
been concealed from the world, that was ordered to go
out in the world so long and not appear, till sow ;
so will every judgment that is threatened, and the
destruction of all nations, appear in time that at
present seemeth concealed. But how car. this en­
lightened nation, that hath my Gospel, convince
other nations o f the fulfilment of the Bible, the
truth of the Gospel, and the judgments of God, all
as foretold, if they continue in war against them ?'
Then all must appearto he the judgments o fjn^nand
not of G od: then how can1ye fulfil my Gospel, fyhUe
ye are thus fighting against m e ? Now, let .men 'of
wisdom weigh this together; see in what mapper all
was spoken, and what hath followed sipee,: and how
all is explained; then judge for yourselves, if this
nation can be my friends, to convince other nations
that these judgments are come upon them,' because
they ate not come to the Gospel; or convince them
of their sins : they are for judgments left on-record,
that if they contend with them in the war, they can­
not bring them to my Gospel. Here I shall end the
explanation, and leave it for men to draw their'
judgments.” .
THE MANNER OF THE JUDGMENTS EXPLAINED;, f
Digitized by
^
Google
1
The. following communication was-giveo, after I
had written the address for the paper in 179 6 : ..
** Now this letter thou hast written
In the paper it must go;
For the words l did indite them,
Aud that every soul shall know.
If thou drawest back unto perdition
Fatal will thy ruin be;
‘ • 1 For l tell thee no physician ^ '
; * \ E’ei can cure the wound of thee. ' *■* *
•
. By perdition I do tell thee
T is if thou dost now draw hack;
4f men say l shall deceive thee
Say my Promise is not slack :
Happy men that run the venture,
In the furnace for to go ;
There the flames thou knowest I quench'd tliem,
And thou It find the Promise true.
1 have stopt the mouth of lions,
And assuag’d the powers of hell,
1 have shook the trembling jkiiors,,
And Jerusalem did make fall.
AH this I have done already,
But in ignorance men go on ;
Then my wonders must go fin ther,
................... To the purpose 1 shall come.
Greater wonders 1 shall shew them,
Prove my Bible all is true;
Heathen nations I shall shake them,
And awake the stubborn Jews.
'Now the circle* thou must draw it.
As thou sawest it in the last;
Write the words by \Voolland spoken,
And the end l’ll crown at last."
T h e following was given in 17 9 6 ; severe ahd
awful threatenings were spoken to me of this land,
what should come upon them if unbelief abounded,
which made me tremble, and I wrote the following
w ords: Dear and merciful Lord God, thy threat­
enings are severe; mercy is thy darling attribute,
judgments are thy strange works; to which I was
Answered:
" No>y stop thy hand and say no further:
Mercy it is trampled on; v
Strange ye say are all myjudgments—
To the purpose thou art come:
• This alludes to the circle and stars seen by Woolland on the
Fast Day. See First Book of Sealed Prophecies, p. 26,
8 COMMUNICATIONS SEALED,IN:1796.
Digitized by Google
/ Strange is all hath been already,
) . Stranger things will soon be done,
\ Arid the way I have reveal’d it
* ,, Is a strange mystery unto ipan;
NThen nowstrangeworks l havebegun them;
' - - Shew myjudgments must appear,
A* my mercies so are slighted, . . /
Let them know my judgments near j
For my harvest is approaching,
. And that every soul shall know j
% Let the ploughers and the reapers
In one field together go.
There, I say, break up the fallows, .
♦ While the corti th&y do cut dowffj
In the barn the one to gather, , >o
While ye all prepare the ground
For the crops that are ensuing—
Hasty must my work be done:
In my vineyard now be doing; r ^
To the purpose all must come.
As the day is neatly ended,,
So mv Bible is thi same ;
For thou scfest I w
’ett went through it,
And unto the Psalms ’tis come ' .
There thou knowest I said I’d end it—
Mark me letters how they, stand t :
And I said should next confirm it—t
They shall find me God and Man1:
If as Man, I’ll now confess it,
Much like He|t)d I will do,;
_ If by wise men I am mocked,
, Then my fury fast shall go,
And like Herod*I'll pursue it—
Bring the child, dr kill them all i
In all hearts I bid them bring hurt,.
That he now ihay worshipp’d be;
Or I will destroy your children :
’Tis the guilty now must fled.
Dark’s the night to thee approaching;
. Dark the days are Coming on : . *
For my Blood they ail did clambur;
. Npw thou scest ’tis turn’d on man :
As.thespols are on thy paper,
- . ' Full s
fsblack do men appear;
But i say I will not leave them* . ,
Tjll I’ve wash’d them whitb and fait.
When the daylight is approa'ching
Thou'wilt further know my mini** -
* This alludes to the singing Psalms at the end of the Bible that
Joanna was then reading in.
+ The letters at the head of the sections of the Cxhc Psalm.
b k l 1
HE NEAB APPROACH OP JCDGMEKT^. Q
B
Digitized by Google
10 A COMMVNICATIOH 6EALEK IK 179&‘
March, 179&
Dear Lord, in mercy look down upon a sinful na­
tion ! open their eyes that they may see, unstop
tfyeir ears that they may hear! Paul may plant,
and Apollos may Water, but it is thou, O Lord,
must give the increase, or their labour is in vain.
/
I
I
i
THE ANSWER OF THE LORD,
+* Now stop thy hand and say no more*
Till I have fully answer’d here.
Paul and Apollos both aFe warn’d,
And I bid them both appear >
Let them plant'as I command it.
And Apollos water too,
I will surely give the increase.
And I’ll bring it to thy view ;
For my Bible doth affirm it,
Like the trembling iailors be,
And like doves unto the windows.
Will the guilty sinners flee.
Let the truth come all befoMe thei$
Written by some plainer bapd,
As thy writing ia thy inditing
Weak heads cannot understand;
It is put into great mystery,
And my Bible all is so;
If the ignorant could explain it
Learning's of no use below.
In your labour all be doing,
And your talents let them .shine;5
1
Bring your Bible all together,
And compare it with the times;
For I said I would confirm it,
And the truth I’ll prove it so;
For the Bride I’ll prove is ready
All my truth to Man to shew;
Prophecies are now approaching.
Then my Spirit sure must come.
I’ll reveal the Revelation
Plainly as ’twasspoke by John:
Now,the wine-press (am treading, -
And that every soul shall know ;
For the stubble I am cleansing,
And my fury last shfdl go. <
IVe made war With other nations >
Why will ye against me rise ? -
, Deeply weigh the Revelation,
Why my Gospel all despise £
Digitized by Google
I
THE BEEAM OP THE PVU U t-'lk& R BX#tAfNED. 11
/
\
When the learned shew their wisdom,
I will every leaf unfold ; . -
Suttheir talents tirst ril trv them,
Then the,truth shall all t a told. , ,.
Deeper doors I have to*bpefi, '
Deeper must my Spirit goj
Fdr the; present I shall-ena r''
Now thy dream I bid thee shew.**
.. i
. . 1
I dreamt I ;was in a garden and saw a largf plumb-
tree; the plumbs were thick andlarge, and.weighed
tq the groqnd; some were green, some wer^ red;
and the people gathered them. Two flowers were on
the tree that I gathered for plumbs, but found them,
nothing but poppy leaves, and threw, them away.
T H E A N SW E R OF* T H E LO JtD . r '
“ Then now this dream I will explain:
The mysteries here are deep. : ' ■
Theplttmbs weregreen,and somewere red,
And them they all did pick;
The flowers thou didst gather there, 1
But soon did throw away.
Now here’s the meaning of thy dream— *
' riTbriitg it to this*dayV
The plnmb-tree will its frjiit soon shew, c /
When m
endo but awake, ;
And ripen fast, you all will know;
Rut tare is the mistake:
The flowers on the tree will come
. And like the fruit appear,
But to the taste is good for none,
- Just like thy flowers .there; , !
Like poppies they will surely be,
That 1 shall cast away;
J M the * rue FRitt* join’d to the Root'
on the tree may stay. * I
So ministers now all be wise;
With yoii I will begin :
, My <
3o$pd nor my Flock despise, .
And poverty of none;
I made the rich, I made the poor, 1 /
And both alike to Me ; .
In Heaven is hid my children’s store: . ;
And hero’s the mystery;.
For heirs above they're of my Love;
With them I first did come,
And now my will for to reveal '
Pve done it here a£ain.” \ < ' » -1
&ere ended in 1796.
B a
Digitized
5d by Google
A further Explanation, given on Thursday, the
2 \st o f February, 1805.
*? Now I shall teli thee further of the.dream, and
*pf the fruit and flowers. " How would it have dis­
heartened thee, if I had told thee the perfect sense
and meaning of the dream at that time 1 for thou
lenowest the flowers and the fruit were all'on one tree;
and the flowers were gathered by thy hand; without
discerning they were nothing but poppies and no fruit
when thou gaulerest them,' but when in thy hand'
were soon discovered/ Now I tell thee, the tree i’$!
the Tree of Life, which is promised to .all true Be­
lievers. Mark, on this tree, • that alludes to the
Sealing, flow many came in to sign together to have
iny Kingdom established, to bring in my Kingdom
of Peace, and that they might be heirs tp the Tree
o f L ife ; but how did they come in like poppies, that
bad no abiding fruit in them ! therefore they cast
theirselyes away, as thou didst cast away ,thy flow­
ers : and now I have cast them all away by giving
a-strict command, that no one shall he sealed that
doth not come in by true faith 5 then the7fruit may
remain and abide good; for know, the fruit that was
gathered was good fruity and not cast away; and
the fruit that was green was left on the ttee to ripen;
and know that the weight weighed down the boughs;
and so 1 tell thee will be the weight of believers,
that; are now green, ripening to a true faith ; and the
fruit-that was ripe and gathered is the first fruit that
is gathered in,by faith, to, be preserved.and made
heirs of the Tree of Life. But here I know thy pon­
dering heart: thou sayest, why then were they '
gathered oft" the tree? T o this I answer, the tree
was but the shadow of what they are 'sealed for;
and when they come in by faith they are gathered
fli as ripe fruit plucked from the trees of man, th,at
THE DREAM QF TRB RLUMB-TRBR.BXFDAINED
Digitized by Google
they may be joined to the Tree o£ L ife ; it is faith
that plucks them off from the world, and lays them
up in store together. Now to make more clear to
thy understanding, I will bring it to wheat, that I
compared to man, .yet know it is to be cut down^
and gathered into garners; and know that'is the®
wheat that is to be preserved; just so is the fruit;
though it hang by faith on the Tree o f Life, yet it
is fruit that must be preserved. N ow this is the
piystery of the Sealing: but know the flowers were
pot fruit, and though they appeared Npon the satpe
tree, yet they were east away ; and so-in the same
planner many stand on the list, and are sealed to be
made heirs with the fruit; but as there is no fruit
jn them, nor faith in them, like the flowers, they are
cast away; for how can such be gathered in, as
fruit for their master’s use ? and how can ■ fruit be
gQQ{| fpf their master’s use* if it be not’gathered in ?
!A ft'a : S^TADpW OP. THE SEALING. 13
So now discern how I do warn: *
'File mystery of thy dream
'Tis for the sealed number here,
As Iiiave it explain’d ;
For on the tree, you all did A
see,
Alike the whole was plac’d;
But had the whole been kitown to thee
Before the die was cast,.
Thou might’st complain ’twaaall in vain
What l should bid thee do, '
And like the flowers cast away,
And thou the truth to know
It so would end, and so would bend,
The sealing of mankind,
Thou’dst say in vain must tbou contend
The leaves for them to find.
Then all in vain, thou would’st complam,
Thy labour must be, lost,
If t had told thee at that time „
The way the whole was plac’d.
But now See plain, ye sons of.met).
What poppies do appear,
Then letthe fruit for to remain
That now are gather’d here;
They’re gather’d in by faith to con\e
1 Fit for their ipastcf’s use;
Digitized by Google
, •And they will find before *tis long
•* ; What they vrill all produce, ' . ' :
r "Ifhat.now are come in faitib so strongs j
ti Like fruit upon the tree. ,
* Let mem in labour still go on,' ‘
T t - f They’ie gather’d in by me.; , - f t
t (Lilqc fruit that’s fair, I tell thie her^ , ,
l ' f Whose faith does now stand strong,
They ar* the fruit preserv'd by .
,* V;I; 'That on the tree did hang. ■ -J
The Tree of Life must end the strife,
I telllhee, in the end; 1
And that is green, will soon he seen .
f . In the same way to bend ;
, Tor whep my Bible ail discern,. * .
.*: •TTi# wise will then see clear—'
j;: . * ( We well do know the Tree of Life
^ . 1 44 Is mention’d to appear, -
1 * ** And on it hang t!*e faith of 9ome,
. m . “ -The, early fruit we see ‘ '
' r •• jflow for their master's use they’re come,
** While we hang on that tree,
: Which is of faith, the Scripture saitb,
44 But what use are we here, * .
44 If like the others we don’t come
More ripe for to appirar ? *
** Can we produce our master's use,
44 Or be fit, while we are green ?
44 No; if his table must be spread, .
4
t Let us with them be seen.” .
So prudent men will thu* discern
The way they must appear,
To ripen for their Piaster's use, ,
If tney the tree do share;
To hang thereon they so must come, .
* As ripen'd fruit for mb.;
And then. I tell thee, in the end
' My table all shall see ‘
Spread with the fruit of every man
14 DREAM OP THE PLUME-TREE CONTINUED.
So IH1end here, and say no more; -
The lines go deep for all;
Tire fript must be tne faith of man,
When l together call
.My sealed number to appear,
The seals will shew the fruit,
And eveigr way they ripen'd here—
But wbo must then stand mute>
The poppies comet the fruit.is gone-,
And all is cast away;
Then hew my table will be spread
In the greatjudgmefrtday,
Digitized by Google
IF MSBClIS ARE SLIGHTED JUDGMENTSFOLLOW. 14
When Ido come for to demand • .
To have the fruit appear ?
, Can they produce it from their hand^ , ' t 1
That so have mock’d Me here? * '
So from die Tree the Sealing see ■ i;
Compared with the woud,
Then you may know the invstery,
The knowledge of your Lord ~'
* Did this foretel, as i knew well
Before what all would do; {
And now the thing to all is seen,
. ^ Then own my words are true,” •
i
<( N ow I shall go back to the copimunicatioa
copied off before*: know I told thee# if m y Mercies
were trampled on Judgments should cpqne* i Now
mark what followed from. 1796, in the 1799, and
the 1800; here the shadows of judgments were
seen in your land; but then know thy Writings were
not gone out in the world, to warn men, and to in­
vite them ; therefore I sent them out with, a promise
of blessings and mercy from, m r , by sending plen­
tiful harvests; but see how these blessings and the*©
mercies were trampled on. It only hardened men’s
hearts in unbelief; therefore I said if mercy was
trampled on I would turn my mercy into judg-.
ments. Now mark the shadow of the year that is
past: as soon as the three years were endad how I
shewed my threatenings, as a father threatens his
child; but if threatening* will not do, the rod of cor-'
rection must follow; and this rod is increasing in
your land. Now see how men are filled with un­
belief, and say they cannot discern my visitation,
nor the manner I have spoken by thee; all appear­
ed! a strange mystery toman; but how much stranger
will all appear, when they see the whole fulfilled !
And know I have told thee, my Bible is*as great a
mystery to men as thy writings; and -yet they will
profess to say that my Bible is all fulfilled, when it
is out of their power to prove it ; and yet they will
deny the truths that are contained in thy writings ;
what has been fulfilled they will not allow; but
It begins in the 8th p^Q 0 0 g[e
what is not fulfilled they are strict to observe. Then
now let men be as strict to observe what is not ful­
filled in their Bibles, and what is^ to be fulfilled in
their Bibles; then I tell thee their faith would be
^ like thy dream, to grow as fruit on the Tree of Life,
’ -and say their hopes'hang there: .then they will be
as fruit fit for their Master's use, to destroy all the
works of the devil, and by Claiming the Promise
the Fruit, must appear; and know what I have told
thee, it is the guilty that now must flee: and I shall
go on till I have brought the perfect day to be­
lievers. So if Paul plant and Apdllos water, I shall
go on to give an increase of faith, Which will increase
by judgments; and let them mark deeply, how
these words were spoken before, and how they are
going on to be fulfilled ; and now mark for thyself,
how I have gone on more clear to explain my Bi­
ble since men began to dispute against thee, and yet
I tell thee, I have many doors to open to thy view,
which will be opened in their time.”
Here ends theExplanation, Feb.1 l, 1805.
The following communication was given in 1797,
ill answer to the pondering of my own heart, and
the observation made by M r. Manley, that if my
calling was from the Lord, such, religious and good
men as the Methodists would surely have believed
it, as he judged them possessed with the Spirit of
Christ, to which I was answered in the following
lines:
16 ’ A COMMUNICATION GIVBN .IN } ? 0 . .
49 How to perfection I shall come;
And shew the simple sens of men,
That think perfection they have got,
And lead their lives without a blot,
That tomy Gospel they tan stand;
But bring me now that perfect man
Whoseh^art likeJob's hathnow been tried!;
And tftill in integrity abide:
1 tell thee plain that there is none;
I've tried professors every one.
f Wlth/Eastlake l shall first begin,
As all judge him a righteous mafi\
Digitized by Google
And as the world doth now appear*
He with professors gr*(* doth share;
But to my Bible can he stand >
To prove he is an upright man*
When he judg'd Satan fill'd up thee*
And errors strong he then did see?
Did he reprove thee then alone ?
No, no5 >n public this was done.
Now here my Gospel’s thrown aside*
The feult in thee he ne’er did hide,
Nor yet alone did he reprove;
Had this been done he'd gain’d thy plover.
Consider now how this did end,
To shew the errors of thy friend 5
He next thought Satan fill'd thee up, >
-To speak to thee he would not stoop, •
But judg’d himselfa better man *
But now jto reason I’ll begin:
Had he been perfect* like his Lord,
And Satan’sarts to himoccurr’d*
He like hisLord must then reprove,
Convince his friend by milder love
Than ’twas to send thee so away,
And leave the tempter to betray,
Wholly to work upon thy heart
If Satan’s band had put the dart t
Sharper than the pointed steel,
Where he could work in every wheel; x
Had I* like Eastlake, left thee too* ^
His poisonous darts would soon went through*
And took thy senses quite away,
Or bleeding in thy grave to lay}
Or else he’d harden’d thee in sin, %
And sbew’d professors were but vain.
Had I* like Eastlake, left thee thefe* \ t
Now his perfection I ask where
That to my Gospel he can stand ?
, The wounded sheep went from his hand*
And from the company was lost, ,
Left for the tempter now to boast
That he had made an easy prey;
Laugh’d how he stole your flock away.
Did he so easy lose his gold ?
The mystery deepI’ll now unfold*
That very thing I did ordain*
To shew that man should do the same;
For if the thief he then could And* -
Would be refuse to tell his mind*
That he was going the road to hell*
If in this practice he did dwell ?
I tell thee, Eastlake must say No:
Then to what Gospel do they go?
Read o’er my Gospel and you’Usee ’
Hie duty was to seek/or thee,
. , e
TY*J5|5 OF 0RR&? ?JlOPfiSfipftS Q f BRLIGJON* 17
Digitized by
A COMMUNICATION GIVEN IN 1797*
And every error to reprove:
In this he’d shew'd his perfect love,
That in him then must cast out fear;
The sheep'was gone, he’dsoonfound where,
And to what brook was gone to drink;
He’d seen the fountain and the brink;
For soon the water he would taste
To judge if he could lead the rest
To such a fountain, such a stream,
When thirst and faintness were in them.
But if that dangers there did lay
He’d brought the wandering sheep away,
Convinc’d the water was not clear,
Another fountain he’d prepare ” \ .
And shew’d the dangers or the stream,
Judge by the brook from Whence it came.
Thus he’d secur’d his long lo4
t sheep,
That from the flock alone did weep;
But aShe was no shepherd there,
I’ll leave, and now to Leech repair:
The* wandering sheep wa* gone astray,
This shepherd judg’d the self sarhe way^
And heard the bleating of the sheep,
And told her dangers they were deep,
That pointed poison did lie there;
The frighted slicep might bleat the more,
Until another shepherd came'* ’
And did their folly all condemn ; *
To keep her by the fountain side,
He laid his crook so near the tide
That did so deep entangle there,
And made her judge the water clear,
That fr6m the fountain she'd not go;
The shepherd soon perceiv’d it so,
Then all his care he soon gave up,
To seek again he ne’er Would stoop:
A thing not easy to be done
Was soon given up by simple men,
That of perfection now do boast;
Had 1done so all souls Were lost.
And are these now your perfect men ?
What victory do they strive to gain ?
Or how bring back the wandering sheep,
' That they think hurrying to the deep ?
They take no pain$; no labour's lost,
Forget how dear my sheep have costi
But as that price they dia not pay,
' So care not how they go astray; ' ;
And all my Bible throw aside,
Know not"their spirits nor their pride,
* That Satan vainly puffs them up. *
To search once more ’tis fools must stoop
When the first labour it is lost: , * 4
* Here Satan’s pride in man doth boasV
^Pomeroy. %
Digitized by Google
And yet they think they’re perfect men—
Forget their shepherd, ana his pain?
What opposition I went through,
For to convince the stubborn Jews :
And though ray labour then seem’d los£,J
1gave my Life to pay the,cost.
Now do they copy after Me ?
Or what perfection can you see
In these professors thou hast tried ? .
IIow soon my sheep are thrown aside!
The wolf may easy come and steal— '
Perfection now in men doth fail y
Therefore ’tis time for to awake?
I see my sheep are at the stake; .
And all my shepherds are asleep,
Regardless of the wandering sheep:
Like Leech and Eastlake are become—
*
-For sheep like deers I see do turn?
When one is wounded he may go;
For every deer, you well do know,
Will tbrusjt him from his company,
If wounded he appears to be.
So now of Leech I’ll say no more:
He’s not the ipan he said before,
Though me he said he fear’d and lov’d?
But by his conduct can he prove
That ne did here take up his cross ?
I see my gold so mixt with dross
That the refiner how must come,
To cleanse the dross the fire must burn.'
So here of Leech I now shall end;
4 To come to Manley I intend: (
He took more pains than ail thfe rest-r-
But here's the iolly he possess’d:
He knew not what for to believe,;
Thirst for the truth, not be deceiv’d, ,
From one the other he did go:
He came to thee the truth to know;
And what he heard could not condemn ;
But trust no judgment of liis own,
Yet marvella how religious men,
K twas of Gbd, should thee condemn.
These things did work upon his heart,
Could good men have their eyes so dark!
'Phis was a stumbhng block to he, '
Not kngsving.tharitso must be;
To have thy writings all come true, *
The Geniiies must be like the Jews,
Full of conceit and unbelief;
. % Or how should I 'bring cit their grief? s
Or could my Bible now be true ?
, And bring the mysteries tojour view;
. If there was faith upon the earth—
Scarce can you find it to come forth ?
C .2
TYFES OR.-GREAT ,f KGFESSdR'S OP RELIGION* 1
0
)!
Digitized by Google
For where’s the man doth how believe
I am a God will not deceive
The soul that doth on me rely?
Knowledge in me do many cry#
But to the purpose when I come
1 find their faith is dead and gone}
And like the world men alljudge me*
To trust no more than they can see \
Compare their wisdom all with mines
As oft hath been the head of thine*
And wonder I should so direct
To men that did thee so deject
So this is now the heads of men*
And Manley like the rest hath been ;
For when thy letter reach’d his hand*
Tried the religion of the man,
lie thought it did not bear a sound
W herein true gratce could so abound j
And as professors did thee blame*
He like the multitude became*
To judge thy writings were too high*
No prophet ever wrote like thee. ,
These things in public Manley spoke*
And like the Jews of old did mock*
Which caus’d the anger, in thy breast:
He lost the love he mil possess’d ;
And made thy prayers ail to an end,
He wounded thy heart* and griev’d his friend.
So here his good was all forgot*
The folly deep be then had wrought;
But if his reason once return.
His folly then will make him mourn*
If he should see the letter clear*
And dangers once to him appear*
tike Nathan will the letter be—*
•• Unjust return! I know ’tit m e/
Here etuis the Communicationgiven in 1797*
20 THB COMMUNICATION OF 1797 BfcfLAINNN.
The Explanation to theabove Communication, given
Sunday, January2 7 , 1805.
** Now I shall tell thee the meaning of these men:
the hearts of all men are known to m e ; and I well
knew how the self-righteous and great professors of
religion would act, when thy writings went out in
the world; therefore I drew their likeness from these
men ; but I say of them, as I said of thfe Galileans—
Think not these Galileans were sinners'above all
Galileans, because they have done these things; I
say unto thee n ay: ar.d so I say of Eastlake, Leech,
Digitized by Google
and M anley; think not they are worse than any
professors of religion, that trust to- their own good­
ness, their own wisdom, and their own righteous*
ness i I tell thee they are not the worst; for there
was religion in the whole of these three; but I gave
thee that communication to reprove the self-
righteous world at large ; for by these three men the
self-righteous world is condemned. I do not tell
thee condemned to everlasting punishment, or tha£
they are condenmed to have no religion; yet they
are condemned for pretending to be judges of things
they knew nothing about, for they had not sought
deep into the mystery of thy visitation; and this is
the conduct of the world at large, whose hearts be­
fore were known to m e . Therefore I placed the
shadow in these three men; but how could I blame
their conduct, if they had not acted unjustly with
thee ? How could 1blame Eastlake, and shew that
a religious man might be deceived in all his profes-
sions, if he did not look deep to the Gospel ? and
for want of this he acted ungenerously and unjustly
to thee; for as thou sayest, 1 know it is true, thou
hast been a great promoter of the Methodists, as
much as laid in thy power, and they have been un­
grateful to thee ; but now 1 say of them as I said of
Job, I would never have sent thee to join them, to
have had Such daggers placed in thy heart, for thee '
only, 'or for them only; I tell thee,,No : it is for
the world at larget as I well know many worthy and
good hearts would be wounded and grieved like
thine. See Hirst, how he was wounded and grieved
- by Parsons *, turned out in a more ungrateful manner
than thou wast by Eastlake ; see Senior, how he was
turned out the same; and all the places thou visitedst
in Yorkshire, the true believing Christians were
turned out the same. So as the shadow began in
thee, the substance goeth onto all believers that are
■* A Dissenting Preacher at Leeds, who turned out Mr. Hirst, for
.kcllqviujj Christ would ledcmn the whole world. ,
ABOUT THE GREAT PROFESSORS OP RELIGION. 21
Digitized by Google
joined with these self-righteous people. Therefore
J tell thee that communication is not confined to the
Methodists at Exeter, hut it alludes to the'world at
large; therefore I said they were hirelings that cared
not for the sheep, that seeing the wolf coming they
fled. .Now I tell thee, they judged at Exeter the
wolf was come to thee, and so they all left thee to
his care; but had that been the case, that the pow­
ers of darkness had visited thee so strongly as my
Spirit visits thee, and I had left thee, like rnen that
boasted they were better thanothers, thy end would
soon have been fatal, and the wolf would have de­
stroyed the sheep. Now as it began writh thee, they
w'ent On with the others, thinking the wolf is come
to make them his prey; therefore they flee from
them, and turn them out, as I told thee by the
deers, thinking they are wounded, and so they turn
them from them to get them out of their company.
Just so are professors of religion.”
Thusfa r written January ‘2J, 1605.
22 THE EXPLANATION CONTINUED.
Monday morning, Jan. 28, 1805,
This morning a black cloud with a thick mist Jo ­
anna saw over London, and called Townley and Un-
detWQod in to see i t ; soon after the mist gathered all
round, that it become almost too dark to see to write;,
M r. Carpenter came in with two books printed
against Joanna, full of blasphemy and lies. The
mist was so great, and the weather, so dark about the
middle of the day, that they were obliged to call for
candles, and could not see to write; but as a glim­
mering light seemed to appear, did not light them
immediately, but tried, to write; yet finding the
light s0 feeble, they were obliged to light the can­
dles before one o’clock. One of the books is full of
shocking blasphemy from a man that signs himself
an Unbeliever, and makes a mockery about M r. C ’s
praying to the devil ! A quarter before two they were
able to see without candles.
Digitized by Google \
A TYPB'OF Thfc DARKNE6S 0F MEN’S MINDS. 23
“ Now I shall answer thee of this day, when then?
hast had thy dream penned, that thou wast waked
out of this morning.”
I dreamt this morning, that I was swimming upon
a large and spacious river; the water was clear as
chrystal, and I thought I felt very warm and com­
fortable, swimming through. When I came to the
bank, I thought I was taken up in the air and car­
ried over many houses and curious buildings; and
was thinking to myself what beautiful places I should
see, when Underwood came into the room to put-
down the window shutters and waked me. •
“ Now I shall answer thee this dream:
The water clear to thee was seen;
The river thou didst swim all through,
Then in the air thou soon didst go,
Over the houses for to Hy—
Awaked, the day-light for to see,
Because when Underwood came in
It was to shew the day was come;
And that the dawning day was clear,
"Thou wakest to see the light was here.
So from the light TlJLjpow go on:
Thou sawest the mist before the Town,
So darken’d there thou could’st not sec.
Thou call’st thy friends tojoin with thee*
That they mightjudge of it the same.
Soon after it another came,
To shew the mist that was in man:
The blackness of their hearts was seen;
Black as the clouds appear’d to thee.
So black their hearts appear to me,
' That were the authors, for to write
The books he laid before thy sight;
And so myjudgments they’ll bring on—
The lighted candles must be known,
That at the noon-day did appear:
You know their eyes were darken’d here,
Because the mist had made it dark,
vTliey scarce could see their every mark;
How all.these things must first appear
To bring my awful judgments here;
But by the cJmdles the} did see
To write the words J order’d thee.
So by the candles ’twill be done,
The noon-day is no light to man.
To say, u in all things we are clear;”
Though they fulfil iny Bible here, . «
\ ^Digitized by Google /
By all the floods they’re casting out ;
The words of men they may dispute^
Di<J not their writings so appear.
Now from the water all see clear}
1 said that thou wert near the tide.
And the clear riyer is applied,
That thou sosafely didst swim through^
The chrystal stream bring to your viewg
The chrystal stream is now for all
That do believe their heavenly call,
And all like thee may swim the same.
Till to thehank you safely come}
And then, I tell yon, in the air
When that my wonders do appear,
You all may rise above the whole ;
For in the dreary mist they’ll fall.
That do go on to mock thy band$
Above the heads ofall thou’lt stand,
That do goon to mock my word, .
Thou’lt see the day-light, and thy Lord,
When I awake from every dream,
Then true believers will see plain
The darkness and the mist in men
That write against thy every hand.
Though at the first it may appear *
A mist before believers here,
And want the candles for to see <
How every truth doth here agree,
And so shut out the feeble light
That doth appear to every sight
But now thy mind is puzzled here:
Can feeble light from God appear?
Because the day-light comes from me,
Is this the light shut out must be ?
Is now the ponderingof thy mind,
Because thy judgment is confin’d, r
Thinking the lightthatcomes from heaven,
Which by the day-light here is given,
Shall true believers'shut it out,
And say, “ the Lord his works we doubt ?
u And now men’s candleswe will call
“ To give a better light to all.”
This is the pondering thoughts of thee;
The mystery deep thou canst not see,
How I my friends compar’d to man,
'And shew the shadow first from them j
For that’s the way IVe set my sign
Tb shew the likeness to mankind.
How like this day have all begun, .
Just as the shadow here was seen,
To shot the day-light out from all:
And perfect so yourland doth fall,;
And Dy the books that did appear
The time the darkness happen’d hert^
THE EXPLANATION CONTINUED
Digitized by Google
PASTING OUt FLOODS AGAINST THE WOMAN. .25
. <
Shews from the shadow what they’ve done*
Had it been light it could not come, ^
i • Therefore the mist I did ordain,
To shew the perfect sign to men,
iHow they shut out the light from m e!
And by men’s light’tis all they’ll see. »
but mark, the candles were not long.
Before you put them out again; *
So here’s a shadow deep for man—* *
Their boasted light will not be long: •
And by the candles- you may see
HoWsooii men’s light put out will be. .
The bookswerebroughttheethevwere two,
The light of men before your view,
\Vhich strain’d ybitreyes the light to see,
' That from my Bible this must be, ‘
I say to make my Bible clean '
AVith all thy prophecies compard.
The serpent he is strong in man; *
He’s Casting now his floods in them;
And so their words are on record,
To prove my Bible and my Word;
Then how their light can it last long ?
/1 tell thee, shortly out ’twill come,
And make believers see more clear,
AmLwith my Bible all compare. t
Wow toith their bitoks I shall begin:
^ ffhe blasphemy it plain*is seen, - .
: I tell thee, of the blackest die:
' . Because at first he forg’d the lie,
1 And tlien toadd another sin,
That thou would’st tremble for to pdu,
Or tremble now the words to bear,
As thou didst tremble for to hear
.. The blasphemy that he had penn’d*
’Twill make him tremble in the end. •
And noW his words I bid thee see,
* And then again I’ll answer thee *—
1 now tell thee, there are many perfectly like that
main, care not whether it be true or false, right or
"wrong, as long as they can go on to mock evefy thing
and every one, that gives glory and honour to the
Lord; for as thou sayest of others, the devil had come
as an angel of light, but in this mail he hath discover­
ed his cloven foot, to come in the true picture of the
devil» and there 1 tell thee he hath discovered the*
whole: and from his prayers the light of men must
part of this eofnmnnicatkm, bein;* mortjto shew an individual
the danger of uttering blasphemy than for the instructiou of the pub­
lic, is omitted here.
D
• ’ Digitized by Google
Because I tell thee* all Aave mock'd like h e
They've mock'd my Spiritand they've mocked ME*
For both alike l now compare—
Look deepand see the mysteryclear* ,.
How Carpenter hath pray’d to heaven*
And vet they him did mock,
To Beelzebub the name was given*
Then let them fear tlte stroke!
And thine's the same, if all discern,
From heaven is every sound;
But yet from hell men's rage doth swell* ,
, And so the end is found.
But HI indite for tltec to write*
And to the printer send
And shew them how they all do slight
Their Saviour and their Friend.
His blaspliemy did sore wound thee
But 1shall wound them all;
And from their blasphemy they'll see
Their fatal end to foil.
So I'll end here and say no more;
But now theother fead,
And mark the words 1&aid before-*
2@ THE EXPLANATION CONTINUED. *
Now I shall answer thee, from the word? thou
hast spoken— “ Lord undertake my cause for m e!”
and thy cause I will undertake; therefore I told
thee, before I suffered his hook to be read, that he
had as wrongly condemned the Spirit that visits thee,
as the other wrohgly condemned the God that Car­
penter prayed to. Now mark how these two books
came together; mark the darkness of the day; mark
how you shut the windows for a short time to shut
oijt the day-light; but mark how short a time the
candles l^urnt before they were put out t and know
what I said before of Garrett— he was more hateful
in my sight now than when he lived in public sin.
Know I told thee, to end thy book and publish to the
world he was a liar ( and 1 tell thee, he is of his fa­
ther the devil, converted with a false fire from hell,
•as thou hast seen.many before. Now thou knowest,
in this book thou .canst detect him for a liar5 for I
have tried thee every way in the beginning, that I
might be able to.confound men and devils; for I well
knew, to fulfil my Bible, how furiously they must -
Digitized by Google
m e n ' s BL^NDNE^S p u t p i l l s THE SCRIPTURES. 27
rise against th,efe. New I tell, thee from the two
books : in .the .one the devil is come as an angel of
light, bringing.forward Scriptures to condemn thee,
as the Jews of old brought forward to condemn m e ,
without understanding one Scripture that he hath,
mentioned ; so he has wrested the Scriptures to his
own couderunation. And this I fold thee before, the
Gentiles would act like the Jews. Now call to ,thy-
remembrance what mockery the Jews made of the
Gospel in the book they lent to thee 5 and how they
brough t "forward the same arguments to mock the
Gospel, from M ahom et; the wonders they had said
he had done to mock the wonders I had done, in
my Gospel. N ow where is the difference between
Jews and Gentiles ? See in what manner he hath,
explainedtheRevelation ;-but thisthou knowest is an­
swered before, from another’s drawing the same
judgment^ but as I told thee before of the mist, so
is my Bible as a mist and a cloud before them, they
cannot understand because of the blackness of their
hearts; they .have given Satan every advantage;
and while they are fulfilling the Revelations, they are
denying them; for how can the church, in a glori­
fied state, be travailing in birth and crying to he de­
livered. ? JJere is the inconsistency of man’swisdom ;
therefore it is .written, in the latter days I shall do
marvellojuS things amongst them ; for the wisdom of
the wise.men shall perish, and the understanding of
the pruJent man shall be hid. But I tell thee,'these
are neither wise nor .prudent men ; these are the men
written ,of by the Apostles— proud, vain, boasting
men, without knowledge or understanding, wells
without water, wandering stars preserved for dark-,
ness for the great day ; for know it is written, in the
latter day? they shall say, who hath ascended up on
high? or who hath asked counsel of the Lord ? fof
stnc.e the fathers fell asleep all things remain as they
were. These words they are fulfilling, and the
Revelation they also are fulfilling; and I npw
Digitized by Google.
tell tl^ee, their books will come as a swift witness
against them; for they are adding to, and taking
from my Bible; that meaneth, they are adding' to
it another way, that no man can prove by Scripture,,
nor by sense, nor reason, that the Bible hath
the meaning that he hath affirmed. H o w
can he prove the words of Isaiah were ever fulfilled
by his judgment,, or ever can be fulfilled by his
judgment B T fll m e when there was great peace,
upon the earth; tell m e when all were taught of‘the
X^>rd ; and tell m e how, at my coming in glory and
establishing the church witji righteousness, it can
then be travailing in birth and crying to be deliver­
ed ? Here he is adding to the Scriptures in a way
they were neyer meant,' and in a way they can never
,be fulfilled, while he is taking away every promise
throughout my Bible; he is taking away the promise?
made intbeCreation/caliihgit blasphemy to claim the
promise, or have it fulfilled. Here he stands as the-ser-'
pent, with the devil in the man, as he is taking away
the prophecies of Isaiah to bring flie day 6f vengeance
upon his own head ; he is taking away the prophe­
cies of Jo el; for how can hie prove they were ever
fulfilled ?, apd if the' Law is not fulfilled !, must be a
liar like unto himself; and as great an impostor as
he hath made thee, which is impossible for any man
to prove; therefore I toid thee thy writings of 179 3,
with thy tears, thy prayers, apd jpaloiisies, must be
copied off to confound such lying tongues. But Such
I knew would be Satan’s arts; therefore I permitted
every friend to be against thee in the beginning;'
and thy own fears I commanded thee to pen, that they
might appear hereafterV ^nd now I tell thee, when*
the whole is brought together, and thy faithful and
upright dealings are seen, they will find theirselve^
in the mis-maze that he hath mocked thee of.
4. - \ ' * v , . . , '. • \
So in a maze they all may gase , . '
'I’o see the truth appeal} ' \ • -
Such fools as lie must surely be *
» ' ^ *
To make my Gospel clear $ 1
28 THE EXPLANATION CONTINUES). ‘
* Digitized by Google
Q
ian’s blindness * uiither exemplified.
■* - ’ r My Bible true, before their view,
• . ; . Such mockery must come on;
And then the wise will see andknow
My Bible true is come.
^hese foolish men.will then be seen
As wandering stars td be,
Who boast4
0
f light for to give righf,
But there's no man can see;
A light from them can never corner
As clouds they do appear
To stand before"the sons of men;
But know no water there
That doth remain forto bring raiii
To make my wheat to.spring.
They with their Maker do contend*
As Adam did begin,
But know at last the die is castr-r '
Is man aswiseas me,
When 1 appear the whole to clear^
For men my truth to see ?
*Tis not by man that can be done.
Nor yet find out my word.
N o: 1do tell them to stand still,
And they shall know their Lord, /
That judge me trup before their view—
*
But he hath judg’d wrong.
More ignorant than the stubborn Jews
These boasters pow are come.
As ail my Bible does tbretpl,
Thy writings are the same.
They’re puff'd up by the arts of hell
To mock my every Name:
Thy writings’here in all they clear,
1 say, to make them true; *
And when together all appear
You'll find the truth js so. * *
<So now, I say, another day
.Seek thou "the truth to find*
•Ip former years what I did say,
And then I'll tell my mind,
WheP all together you compare;
* But now I'll makq an end,
Fon'fa^t .they’ll bring my judgments near, .
So keen all they’ve penn’d ;
The boots by thee they kept must be,
And with my words compare,
And then thejudgments they will see
How they have brought them here.”
Here ends the explanation, given ih 1805.
The following copimunication was givtn, January
\l%7i in answer to some one that had heard my
* ■' . - <
• Digitized by Google
JO A < 3Q M M U N IC A T IP K G IY *JI IK . 1.7P 7*
writings, saying, how deeply ioiaginadoir would
to which I was answered in the following manner
Now to reasonTil begrurr-
lmagination-s here;
Can tliey imagine such a thing, .
Nor see the mystery dear.
That e'er such writings came from thee >
How blindly all do err!
Their heartsor thoughts can ne’ergo deep,
And nothing do discern.
I said before tliey were asleep,
Imagine all a dream;
Though seem'd onrak they are a&kep,
Imagine all ,a dream,
' And think they seea simple sheep
With worms got in her brain,
That swarmaround, her senses drown'd,
As from the flock she'? stray'd.
Believing she doth hear a sound.
And by that souqd she's led;
And as her fancy wildly leads,
3he simply doth go on;
The shepllendsknownotwhere she'sstray'd,.
Her tracks are too far gone;
The bleating of the sheep they hear,
But cannot trace the sound.
Her tracksare gone so long before,
Thev all are.cover'd down;
And wbiletUey stand itrthis araape
And listen to the sound,
Like simple shepherds they may gaze.
But let themsearch the ground,
Then in thofasture fair and gneen
They'll surely tind thesheep;
. And by the liviugwaterstream .
They’ll find herat the brink.
Where she doth quench her raging thirst:
And they.may dothe same;
For though she's beatenfrom the nest,
She's in my pasture cone. . 1
Then wm* ye shepherds standamaz'd,
And view your long lost sheeps
For on the pasture you may gaze,
And taste the brook she drinks;
'Tis large and fair th§ brook is here,
The trees 4tre by the side;
Andthough she'th lost the shepherd's care,
The boughs thesun do hide,
To screen l;er from the scorching sun
.That in summer doth appear:
And mark fhe pasture she is.in,
When winterdoth appear
The leaves so green, it must be seeq,
Do closely oil her coin©, *
Digitized by Google
And seated by the living stream
She daily reeds thereon.
Se^ how tpe banks on eVery side
Secure your long lost sheep, ,
And mark the fountain by’her side
That shedoth daily drink;
The trees more fair, 1tell you, here,
Than in your gardens be;
Such pasture you have never seen,
If_you wjll come and see, *
And fnark the bank* on every side,
No enemy can come;
The lion’s roaring ter his prey.
It must to all be known;
But that is on the other'slde,
He frightens with his noise;
But mark the banks and see the tide,
And hear the lonely Voice: -
Unto the rocks she doth coniplain
To screen her from his power—
And I’m the Rock she builds tipon,'
That he cannot devour. ,
Mark where she stands, and view thel^nds,
And see how all is plac’d—
But if I change her to a bird,
See how she*th built her nest;
It is so high that none can fly ;
. To rob her of her brood ;
The fowler’s net can ne’er come by j
The shotsman miss’d his load;
"Though heavy pieces, I do know,
^ Men have rais’d to their breasts,
But are afraid to let them go,
For fear they should be cast;
As men do fear I may be there, ‘
And terror strikes with awfe.
I’ve kept her from the fowler’s snare,
And that they all shall know;
’Tis ME'they dread, or she’d been dead,
I say, for long ago;
„ For deep’s the blow, I well do know,
Men nave rais’d to their breasts,
But were afraid to let it go,
And know they must be cast
If I should come and then demand
Why they should spoil my game.
1*11 takeher from the towler’s baud,
And put mankind*to shame ;
Unless like he they fearful be
For to discharge their load
That they are levelling so at thee,
And ftar a powerful God.
So if she’s hign then let her fly, .
'. And take your charge away;
t h e pa ita b l e <jf t h e s t r a y e d sh eRp. Si
Digitized by Google
A co m m u n ic atio n fcivSNyi.
/
i
\
But if she soars too prpudly here,
Her shotsraan t will J>e; ,
I'll briug Iver low/ they all shall fcnowy .
If she doth soar too high: ‘ '
And if beyond my bounds shfcgo , . .
She’ll have no wings to fly ; . >
I’ll bring her low, you all snail know,.
And she hath nought to boast; '
For had l left her to herself _
She’d stumbled like the rest. *
But as your I&nd by heirship stands, ,
She \i the perfect heir; ,
For ’tis unknown toevery man
WhathCr forefathers ^ere; , .
Ere she was born* if must be knowft# r.
The Promise there \vas made ; ‘
And she’th fujfiird her mother’s will ,:
When bn her dying bed *.
So where's th%man will dare condemn
The thing that l have done ? ‘
Then 1will act the same by he,
And rob him of his laud. ‘ ,
S^now oflences will come ori». «
■
E le n ’s hearts will swell too high,
And say ray Kingdom cannot come
By such low worm as thee. ‘
For perfect like the Jews of old # *
The Gentiles will begin;
The rich and great will still be bold, ,
Artd so deny the thing; ' - ‘ '
But then their pride it must Comedown—»
By pride the angels fell* ^ ■ .
And’tw'as the pride in Herod’s heart .
That brought his soul to hell:
The babes he murder'd all for me,
But he did miss the mark.
This is a hidden mystery:—
The proud are in the dark; “
And shall 1swell them up more high,
To chuse the rich and great,
When they did never honour me ? .
Now look at Pilate’s seat.
So now with men I’ll even come.
And bring their honour low;
For’tis the meek J now’ will seek,
And there my goodness shew.
With Minifie I did begin, .
And with her now M end:
There’s no man can dispute with thee,
Because I am thy friend.
Thou sayest thou art amaz’d to see
The simple h'eads of men;
And I should be amaz'd like thee,
Did I not knofc the chain, x ,
* See the fifth Book of Prophecies, page 203*
Digitized by C j O O ^ I c
That Satan holds them by his power
And will not let them go;
Hte guards in their unguarded hours*
^ And that I well do know;
For if like lambs your flocks do stand*
W atch'd by the shepherd's care,
The fox is hovering round the land
To tvatch his absence there. '
His haunt's unknown to every man,
The bight he gets his prey, ’
For when he sees the shepherds gone,
, He steals my lambs away.
So now with ^linifie i ’ll end—
Beforehand none can see;
Behindhand with the cufnning fox n ^
My shepherds surely be; }
Therefore beware and guard with care* n *
Qr all your flock youil lose;
You little think the fox so n§ai>
As he is on yoiir coast:
But if his haunts you will find oUt*
Then come to your lost sheep,
And ajl his footsteps you may trace
When you were fast asleep;
And see the Bock she climb?d upon
When she beheld him near.
And warn'd your flock to flee thesam*
When they behold him there—
♦ Then like the bird you may escape
Out of the fowler’s netV
\ For if the dark side he doth beat
v I tell you to fly up*4
’
TYPE OP MEN COMING TO SEAJICH.THE TBU.TH. 33
When I Had written these words I was taken sleeky,
and laid tny head upon the table to sleep; but grew
faint, and was forced to throw myself on the bed to
keep myself from fainting; Mrs. Woolland came
tip and brought drops to recover m e; and she left
her company to abide with me. •
THE ANSWER OF THE SPIRIT.*
Then now this is a simple things
B,ut I shall it explain:
For men like thee they sleepy be* /
And faint they’ll surely come;
Because their ears will itch like thmft
And faint they’ll surely grow,
And eager wish to see the time
Thy pasture for to know;
J Td raise thee up they'll surelystoop*
I And drops they will prepare,
1 E
Digitized by Google
Wishihg tosee th* mystery
O f all thy writings here. . ' *
, , And mysteries they’ll surely be* .
Beyond the powers 6f men; '
They will neglect their company*
As Woolland now hath done.
So noWgo to thy last night's dream— •
sib C-? With Pomeroy thou must end;
But m plain words 1 shall explain
z What I do bid thee send:
It is the c6m, it must be known; '
For it I shall explain.
And how these things I shall perform.
And bring it to your land.—
‘ And now, Joanna, thee I’ll answer
From thy last night’s dream:
4 Can men doubt who is thy Master
In things so very plain ? ,
1 know the simple sons of men,
That of their talents boast,
And now the mystery I’il explain
Why all their wisdom’s lost;
Because the rerpent Til confound,
And men thejudge must be':
And let the mysteries all come round—
Are man as wise as m e? ; , * *
For this theserpent did affirm, ‘ ’
* That they as,wise should grow,
And be ks gods, he said to them, .
And good from evil know,
If they would listen to his voice,
And so they did obey.
But then they made a fatal choice,
t And nothing knew of me : *
So now your Bibles trace them backj
And different sects appear,
And prove your judgment all alike,
Then Satan must be clear.
But here thou sayest they’re’not alike—
- - - * Then Satan told the He,
Wherein hedovos and doth delight . x ,
Unto this present day: *
And tis,with lies he hath deceiv'd , _
‘ ‘ *The simple sons of men ;
But-now I bid them mk obey, *
, I’ll bring them back again. r
For just as Pomeroy said to thee,
His words I’ll still maintain,
, MvSpirit shall w'ith yours agree,
I’ll make you perfect men.
Now all l do^demand of mau
To see thy writings clear,
And w
’eigh them deep with every land,
Then see if one will err.
34 A C0MMOHICAtIO» GftEN IlTJA&. 1797
Digitized by
.yGoogle
3TSlte V6K r*l WftHS KTTHE WIL0E*N1STS. 35
lf41#lil«lh£grjl9 heH<fve};
AflA Rll/aldk^ do■8c^i
Jffy t^spelxahnot man deceive—
For aow I'll answer thee,
A ^ w v£ ipy Kingdom .it is,c;ome,
I ’ll fix jp every hearty
My perfectfoeirsTll join as one, '
T^c substance cahpotpprt
Then now stick close unto the vine*
‘ My*Sriueyanlsf fast shall spring, .
: Anil JE-will give you/better wine
Than was ip Cana seen:
For all my Bible I’ll unfold,
According rtomy 'Word,
And letthesous jpfmm stand still,
rrhen tney shall know their Lord.
For now the seas11 wiltdivide,-
And strong the walls shall be;
For 1 will surely^smite the tide,
A id man Til surely free;
As ’twas with Pharpah now’t must come
.Upon the rebel’s head;
That he shall know before ’tis long, ,
rU surely strike him dead;
Amongst the waves I'll make his grave, •
And bring my chosen through;
THe land of Canaan they shalXhave,
For that isjin my view.
But mark,the wilderness how long,
And thenjudge of the time
That I shall come to rescueman,
• And chain the rebel down.— ^
But here thou sdyest the time is long;
But what hast thou to fear ?
"\)yhotf'lt see my harvest fast to come,
That someredeemed are;
* Then why thy pen hast thou put down }
y Hath sorrow fill’d thy heart >
< .i said thou It never see the time
V That first must make them smart,
fiuthete :1 see thou art perplex’d—
u Will Satan reign so long ?”
Thou know’st I left him to the text,
As Wooliand now hath done:
And if mysealed number’s free,
Secure from all Kis power,
Thou knoweat what part I give to thee,
That he. cannot devour..
’ Then hast thou now put down thy pen,
And dread the words to hear*
And dost thou wish to break his bonds
Within t^ese fo rty years ?
*
*
. P
; ^
flere / ended, January 2 3 ,1797,
E 2
Digitized by Google
The following communication was given, M ay,
1797, in answer to what Mrs. Taylor told m e: She
thought the Methodists had persuaded Mr. Manley
Out of every belief, and told him of many false re­
ports, that I had prophesied falsely. This provoked
me to anger against their religion, finding they were
full of lies; y e ti thought to myself, why should,I
condemn the innocent with the guilty ? Oh, my
God 4 keep me in the hour of temptations! thon
knowest my frailties and weakness, save, Lord, or I
perish 1 for the water floods are come over thy soyl.
T o this petition I was answered;
4
iNow stop thy hand, foi I’ll begin—
r
The Jews were perfect like these menj
And trusted they so righteous were
, That nothing they could have to fear;
In a false fire they all went on j
Their prayers and tasting built upon,
Till lovfe and pity all werelost,
Still of their goodness they did boast.
Until my heart became like thine,
To give them un for to be blind,
And was provok'd their words to hear,
As thou art now, and this 111 clear $
So write the words that Kidner 6j>oke;
For they shall know wh^t *tis to mock.” .
M r. Kidner told me, that M r. Giles said, Christ’s
peaceable kingdom was approaching, and some eyes
ivere open to see i t ; and the Lord would save his
elect. It must be observed, that tins M r. Giles be-r
lieved in election and reprobation ; that God had de­
signed pne part to t>e saved, and the other to be
lost; but he judged himself and his congregation
wpre the elect that must be saved.
36 A COMMVWICATIOK GIVERIW .MAY, 1J&?.
THE ANSWER QF THE SPIRIT.
•* Let Giles appearand tell me where
The blind begin to see ?
I said before, much like the Jews
The$e righteous Christians be;
Digitized by Google
Their ragged garments cover all.
There's not a piece that’s sound;
And like the painted whited wall *
Is their religion found. -
Now with the Jews I shall begin, '
And with the Gentiles end:
Untemper'd mortar daubs them all; *
To reasonJ l l begin: .
When on the earth I first appear'd
The Jews did me expect ;
But to their wisdom they .did trust,
And me they did reject $
For as I came to them, ’twas known,
Then being mean and low,
.Their haughty pride threw ail aside,
No love nor pity shew’d ; t.
But still their goodness they did boast,
And thought theirselves elect—
Could Abraham's promise e’er be lost ?
’Twas they must it expect • . n
' Now I'H proceed to Abraham’s seed,
' And tell thee who they be;
For now to IshmaeJ thou must come-1
-
__ ’Twas given first to he;
Then after,him did Isaac come; .
I fix’d my promise there—
Then now the Handmaid let all see,
And bring me Isaac here.
The Bondwoman, it must be known, t
Are those under the Fall; ,
For where’s the man from sjn is free ? -
It hath defil’d you all;
And wjiere’s the man that now will come
To say from sin he’s free?
Tbpn sure that man I will condemn, ; *
An Ishmael he must be
Isaac to mock; for though I spoke .
' . As trifling now with man, .
' But I will sure bring on the stroke—
To reason I'll-begun :
1 tell you plain, ye sons of men, ,
You’re tainted by 4be Fall;
And while the Woman you condemn#
As Bondmen ye are all.
For I’ll appear t6 .make it clear, *
The Woman must be freed
Ere Isaac can proclaim.the heiiv-
Let men look deep and see. . * '
From Adam’s Fall, oe’t known toall,
The Woman stands condemned;
And till Jfree her from the Fall .
You cannot claim your land;
As ye are born, it must be known.
You say, o f Bondmaids all;
)r jONxBL£CTIO:NA3rB BEPBOBATION. 37
Digitized by Googie
\.S8
Then the ntUE H«R oannot anpear, ■
Till l have freed the Fall. .
Now let the learned men look deep ’
And judge from whence they spring:
From dost at first end dust at last—» *
This is the end of men.
Now from thisend l do intend
To make man perfect free;
The Bondwoman I shall cast out,
* That Isaacs ye may be.
Let it bejudg’d by learned men**
As Woolland to thee spoke ; '
But now to reason I’ll begin,
Like Woolland I did joke;
From learned men I’Mnow begin.
Their learning will notdo;
The learned men that 1 do mean '
Must see my Bible true. '
For lshmaels here will sureappear
Thy writings for to mock;
But they shall never be the heiis,
For 1 shall cast them out ’
1 spoke(thefirst, but now the last
i ll to the Gentiles come:
How confident were all the Jews?
You’ve seen the end of them:
Their unbelief, their haughty pride* .
Their goodness they did boast, •
Their self-conceit it still was great,
Till every title was lost, >
% Their land destroy’d, by whom enjoy’d,z
- Their glorious city waste;
And yet for all they could not set, - -
Their eyes were dosed fast
And why it was so they all shall know, r
’Twas to throW'down their-pride;
And let them*rdad my Bible through*
And see wherein it laid:
The valiant men they did esteem,
Apd those whose names were high, '
Mv prophets they did all condemn— *
vy hatend did many diet
And whenTcame k was<tbe same,
Their haughty pride did swell; ,
They could hotjudge a man so mean *
Could save their souls from helL
So lshmaels there did sure appear,
And Isaac they did mock,
Till they became as outcasts there,
And long they’ve fek the stroke.
The Gentiles thenwere*taken in,
And nowmfistbe'the heir,
Unless lUrelshmadall do mock—
Then let-the Jew^ appear. . -
A COMMCNICATIOH G4V*W hr MAY, !7 $ f
Digitized by Google
66Kd£KtUtfG THE 4pt k l t . O
B
* FROFHKCY. $9
For now to all I mean to call,
And bid you both be free,
T is by the MothcfrInd'tfie Bride
That Isaacs ye must be.
So Jews and Gentiles now give up,
And say the Woman's clear;
Then sure for Canaan you may hope,
Your full Redemption’s near;
For if the Woman I make tree, %
Ye mustbe free indeed:
Though this appears a mystery,
But all from ner proceeds; , .
For every man from her was born,
Ever since Adam s Fall}
And as that sin did taint her blood,.
You say you're tainted all;
But if that taint I take away.
And make her perfect free,
And pour the Holy Ghost on Man,
Then perfect heirs you’ll be;
Made heirs of God, it must be know'd,
And joint heirs with the Son.—
Now let the learned men appear,
I'll answer thee again.**
The following communication was given, M ay,
17Qf. I was ordered to go into Exeter to M r. T ay­
lor. Soon after M r. Manley came in, and said he
had seen the Reverend Chancellor Nutcombe, who
remembered thelctter I sent him ; and he had shewn
it to the Archdeacon Moore, -who. said'he had re­
ceived a letter from me a twelvemonth before; and
they compared the letters together, and could find'
no fault in the letters; and believed the time.was
coming of the Woman mentioned 5 but thought
prophecies had ceased ever since our Saviour was
upon the earth ; and the Worrian was insane; But
Mr. Manley.said,, that some worthy divine had pro­
phesied of the death of the King of France, a hun­
dred years before it took place, and told the date he
would be beheaded in. I said, then he must know
it by prophecies, for no man could know it of him­
self. He said3
> O, he was. a pious good man.
Digitized by Google
. 40 A COMMUNICATION GIVEN IN MA.Yj.i7Q7.
THE ANSWER OF THE SPIRIT.
** Now let this pious man appear '
Andanswer my demand,
If from himself he’ll answer here
Hisjudgment so could stand, 1 . »
That he could be as wise as me.
And thesethings toforeknow,
Had it not been by prophecies,
And I inspir’d him so >
Could he foretel what would beta!?
Or ansWerfor the Lord,
How at that time r meant to draw
A double damme sword?'
Let men appearand tell me where .
My prophet did foretel
What in your land did ever come,
And say it dime from himself?
Then man must be as wise as me-*
Let learned men dispute;
But as their arguments I see,
I mean to make them mute*
Your conversation 1do know.
So do not waste thy time
To write the words from Manley flow’d.
They all are in my mind;
For I was there, the truth I’ll dear;
I said I knew the man;
Thy going I did order there.
And so l made himcome:
He with his Maker did contend.
As I had said before:
But now I mean tomake an end,
And open every door.”
M r. Manley said, that religion was increaeing
greatly in our land ; and the people were gathering
in fast; and crying.out in the methodist meetings
how they weie converted and brought to the Lord.
THE ANSWER WAS GIVEN AS FOLLOWS:
' * Now with his arguments begin—- ,
His gathering I will clear:
Too often 1 have seen these things,
As thou hast seen them here:
And as your common custom is,
1 now will answer thee:
More noise than work there often is} .
Like trunk'inakers they be,
Digitized by Go6gle
• f KOFESUOXS OF XH? M Biaf^Dr8T6. 41
* Or like the drum that makes a sound,
And hollow all within, . , .
‘ Their noise doth so alarm the ground—
But to their closets come,
You’ll findthem there, it will appear, / .
As hollow as the drum;
Their painted faces do deceive
_ The simple sons'of men. .
They make a noise, for mens their chojee.
Of them they’ve got their praise *
And man's reward is their regard—
These are your glorious days . ,
Whkrein they sound that grace abounds*
But in it l see none*
Now piety let all men see, ( ^
And leave ypur sounds ajohe : . ,
For to thy irmd they all must come* .
If piety they111 trace; .
Add then they’llsee the ipystery,
How thou didst paint thy face
Not to appear as they do there—
No painted face is found# , ( ,
»
But cheafful dost to men appear, * '
When deep thy heart is wound’d ;
Thy heart oppress’d, thy feeling breast*
When oferwhelm’d with grief*
But dostthoushew thy sorrows there ?
To Mi thou seek’st relief;
To man thou’st go, I wHl do know,
Thy sorrows to disguise-
I tell thee^ I didjgive the blow
To make the simple wise * . , .
Blame not thy friend, mark what thou’st penn’d}
. ’Twas l that gave it here 5 .
Thv courage high I meant to try, ‘
, To see how thou would’stappear*
^ But in disguise thou didstgo wise, .
Thy sorrows all conceal'd, • *
And thou didst fear to tell it there—
. The mysteries I’ll reveal*
Because thou didst fear they would appear
As simple as the rest * . . . .
Add where to go thou dost not know,
, If thou from all wert cast.
But I’ll begin and dow speak pUin: . '
He that’sasham’d of me,
Or ye{ my Gospel to maintain, .
Ashdm’d of himI’ll be:
And all shall find it is ray mind
To make thy heart like mine5
For if thy writings do shame then),
I bid thee all resign *
That is, if they’re asham’d to see ,
They have a prophcthere, . . ..
• 1
Digitized by Google
j—S
l- JL„
I bid thee seekanother place*.
For there thou shaltappear- ' -
As I’ve begun 1 will go on,
I will net give it up;
1 And to the learned sons of meet *
My wisdom shall not stoop.
If they'll deny, no prophecy • .
Can now conffe down below,
My Bible they must give the lie,
, The truth there’s none can shew. •
I said that earth should pass away.
And ,a new earth begin $ •
Tbe prophet’s words snail ever stand, .
1 come them to maintain; • .
And to fulfil is now my will, * - '
. ^For I shall make them good—
Then'lct the soldiers see the spear -
By water and by blood.
Now mark your call from Adam's Fall,
Your standing to this day.
And will you say the guilt of man
Was ever past away ? - <
Thou answerest, No: my words are true.
For it is still in man} •
Under the Fall you’re tainted all***
Let generations come,
And tell mt. when, ye sons ofmen,
v From darkness you were free.
Then sure this age, I’ll now engage*.
Was never past away j
Under the Fall you’re tainted all,
As I did say before.
But now for man I shall begin
To free him from that scorej .
Atonement here will be no more;; ’
The debt’s already paid j '
x And he that brings another here,
’Twill fall upon his head.
. So now beware, I say, take care,
And first account the cost j
I tell you not to trifle here*
, It is the Holy Ghost .
f 4 That doth command thy written hand,
* No time s for trifling here.
Infusion’s cbriie, and it is strong; ■ .
Letjeamed men take care . .
How they despise; and noyp be wise .
• Tc see thy written hand. '
Firm a^'the heavenly pillars arc -
hfy word shall ever stand:
For now tbe sin you mayl>egm
Against the Holy Ghost,
Atonement then no more shall com*-*-
I’ll freeze farmer score j .
42 A fc&IMftttttCAfrO» >WV«H IK MAT, VjQR.
Digitized by Google
. Andl shall justify,the thing
While heH in' chains do roar;
Because that hell will surely swell .
- Against the rebel there*, '
And curse their fatal destiny, »
That he di4 themensnare. ;’ ,
In heaven the war did first begip, >
In hell I say’twill end. V *
But wh$nthe rock and graves I tear %
I’ll standthe sinners’ friend;
For as m Adam <fUdid die, • ‘ , 1' /
. all shall live in ME j »
I II place the shee? on my righthand, .
And then the goats T ilfree *. '
My love tp,MAN was never known* , ^
* Nor will*I all reveal 3 ^ w
But my epect'I will protect,
(My word shall never fail)
And that is man it shall be known;
- I did his image bear; 1 *
And though from him 1hadthe blow—
** ,
Yet in the end i’ll clear
Their mi§ery> they all shall see; r '
My Heart is not like man, . -
T o punish here.as doth appear, _
In hell f&rever burn. .
But now thissubjeet 1shall end,
Another I’ll begin: '
Xf simply they do laugh at thee,
I tell them, ’tis no sin; '
But I command thy written hand .
And bid them not laugh there $ • *
* Unless they see the mystery;
And laugh to see it clear ;
Their laughter then I will commend,
To see they’re not deceiv’d*
Nor trusting to their pious friend, ^
But in my word believe. '
His pious friend did he commend,
- To tell him what he knew,
That with the righteous it was well 5
- But what must he go through
T o have it well ? The truth 1tell,
While1in this world he stays
He doth not know the dangerous reads
That are before his way.
If I should try his courage high.
His heart he doth not knowj
Nor yet what spirit he is of, *
If l should bring him low
To beg for bread, if *twas for need • 7
' It would his courage try ;
His heartwithin he’d feel to bleed,
A&d spirits soon would die ;
• See the communication op the Day ofJudgment, in the fourth
Book of Prophecies, F 2 ’
Digitized by Google
Then he would fear, and surdy care, ’
The days werehastening on:
And that' will be his destiny, ' ^
' , , Unless he doth begin • *
' 'For to go through, 1 tell theetrue^ " . ;
To eat and drink with thee. ‘
T is not to live, be not deceiv’d,
But here’s the mystery: :
T is the same meat that tlidu dost cat ; 1
1 tell him of the food, ‘
-Tis tobelieve I won't deceive
Those that do trusf in God i * \
And that my Spirit will direct .
„ When dangers do appear, .
' And that 1 shall them ml protect-—' *
*
■
^ The small still Voice is here * r
Not to despise—But now be wise, r
.
If I do stoop to come ' i
To lay all truths before your eyes . '
Now in the Woman's form, '
Then do not be, as now you say, .
Of two opinions here,
But trust m God, and feat* his rod,. i
Then you have nought to fear:
Only to fear that danger’s near, : <( ■
And fear the fete of those
That do not know how things will go, 1'
And darkness doth them close..
, Then act by them as he’th begun, .* • '
' I say, to act by thee,
Then safely he will sure go on, .
And I’ll protectliis wav. .
He shall foreknow bow things will go,
If he’s afraid to fall;
But if like Peter hp doth boast, . '
Like-himTil try themall;
The boasting hearts shall feel the dart, »
^ That say they’ve nought to fear; ,
4 Then sure like Peter they will smart, ~
When he’denied me here. .
^ So now be wise, TIPnot disguise, ,•
The storms are rising high ; . ,
But in the deep 1 will not sleep, ‘
But tell you it it is I, n
And on the seas togive you ease,
For dangers you will see3 ' •
Your ships forsake, no waves shall break.
Launch out and come to me ;
My arm is near when you dp fear * '
And see the w
’avps come ori; .
* I shall protect all Peters here,
‘ r : - The fearful sons of men;
For well I know how things will go,
* * The boisterous waves will rise,
44 A COMMUNICATION GIVEN IWMAY, If tyi
Digitized by Google
And Pettits I do many know, ^
Whose fears will make them wisej -
*
Tor they will Bay, like him that day, ' *
That they have all'to fear, ,
Beam tosinkwhen near the brink,
But then my arm is near, , r
T is time to know if this be true,
Then you can brave thestorm$ ' _
And knowthat I am oh theseas
To keep you from all harm: '
So Peters they shall by to me,
Whose hearts begin tofear,
$o this I’ll end, and now begpit
My arm is every where$
And now Pll shew the reason why
That all my Bible’s penn’d
In such a hidden mystery, -
Before I make an end.
From types and shadows aU began
Ever since Adam’s Fall 5
From tvpes and shadows ’twill-go on.
Till I’ve redeem’d you all
Then all.my Bible I’ll makegood,
And all 1 will explain, >
And shew them how at first it stood,
From Abel and from1Cain:
Cain was the first, and he was^cast -
A type from the first bom3
For there theearth receiv’d tne curse,
Then’t must to Satan come.
I’ll tell thee why, for man doth cry,
And vengeance must appear:
For man, 1 know, receiv’d the blow—
And let mankind appear,
And tell me plain, ye sonsof men, s
Could Woman taint your blood ?
Or was the Fall from her own brain
To say the fruit was good ?
* Can it appear that it was her?
She diet refuse at first:
Jt was the serpent did ensnare,
Then there mustcome the cuise:
For Abel-here 1 mean to clear,
He was the second bom;
$atan came first, and man;was next—
Then can you deep discern ?’*
The following communication wa$ jgiftn, in
1797, from my anxious desire to have M r. Pomeroy
try to bring forward my Trial, tQ which I was an-
swere4-r
i f H
J
fc 4$
Digitized by Google
46 AcjoafWUKJGA.xj0K, or. 170 7 , a i o * f ijir a i .
" If he doubts who is thy Madtf, • { .
VVpaid he not bit judgment *h$w» ; _
for tq see the matter plainer , ..
Ere lie did.another warn ? !; « ,
Wouldfce wish for to confound,tb** I , „;
Canst thou standand brave the stoej&
I f thy head:they all should puzzle? ; <
But thou sayest this,cannot be,;,
By thy writings all is.mention’d# . f, »
\
Satan's arts must silent be. . '
This is all unknown to Pomeroy#
Makes him Unger in the ways ,7
( Asa father he doth,use tbce#. . *,
Fearing thejudges of the day ; :
** But thou sayestthou stand’st with$Oun§? ;
' Then thy icOurage I will Uy: . r
Now 1 ask thee, who's thy Master1 ^
Dost thou boldly now rely * ». V ,4
On the Lord is cow thy answer# ;
On me dost thou! whole depend > 1 ^
But if thou must copy after .. (*
?
Men, 'twill foil thee in the end*' : i v
I relied upon my P aTOER* j u a
, And my Power t did shew# ; ; ,*a
Greater proofthawall thy writing®, *
Thou canst e’er,pretend to shew*,17 '
But as thnuuhast spoke yritb courage# ^ «
And so strong on mb rely# " * * ■ \
I will nothing here diminish— . f <
Stand and gain the victory;. , ,
Do pot let thy spirits fell, ; h ,
Unaware, thou'lt hear the call. • ' b
, ShaUJ hfemcthybold preswmptiop# v
And, like Peter, let thee sink?
Jf the storms should overblow thee* . '
Wilt thou tremble at the brink? , -
Wilt thou stand, or wilt thou sink?. .
- On the seas thou sure must stand,:
No more footing is in man j ;
Than Peter on the seas had got— *
. '
Deep the words that thou hast wrote * ■4 , ’
^ Soon thy course I shall prove; * '
' * In disguise I’ll shew my love j , ;
In disguise to thee appear# ,
Till I bring thee safe on shore.—
’ This thou now bast twice read over# -
* But thou dost not understand, .
I shall speak the words here plainer,
. a As thou maycstthtfO now commimdt .
If on thy writings thou dost rely, ' ‘ ^
Because thouT
lt prove them true ; f< *' . T'
I But hear the judges of the dijr, . . ’ ;
And see what they will do; -
For if they judge thee as thy Master# i
They will surely thee condemn#
Digitized by Google
C ^ 2 R G V 'B £ A ^ E /T fl«^lT P > d llT I'N '« O FJO h A N A . 4 ?
Ani) say t*hpu’st put thyselftoo high
To deceive the sonscf bient'; . ■
, Therefore they will all condemn thde \
And thy writings will ifot sfee. r>
Hath not this been done'already? ,
No .more witness need tube; ’ ;
Here thou perfect stattd’st condemn'd.
Just like me at Pflate’s1 ; *
But these judges had ho poivtsr
For to go any further there;
As thyjudges I did ebuse them—
To their wisdom let them go ;
But my knowledge I refuse them, ' *
That they shau hereafter know. .
For I shall try all men’s wisdom *'>' '
Ere the truth I ’ll all unfold $
All the names that I have mchtion’d ,
Shew the world is now grorwh old:
Twrre a child and oirce a urah, ‘
It is time to fall and stand.’' . .
:•* i. -1 .
<
The following communication was given, in 1 797V
in answer to M r, Manley;, who' Went to the Rev.
Chancellor Nutcombe, and. talking, of my prophe­
cies, the Chancellor made answer, that I had written
to him, and to the Rev. Archdeacon. Moore, and
they had compared the letters together, and could
find no fault in,the letters, and belieyedthe days
were come that she told of ; but did not believe
there were any prophecies Since our Savibur had been
upon earth. This M r. Manley told at M r. Taylor’s ;
and Mrs. Taylor said to me afterwards, no' man
should think of himself more highly than he ought
to think. When I came to Mrs. Taylor she told
tne, that M r. Taylor had dreamt that the Archdea­
con and the Chancellor carrfe to him, and blamed
him for encouraging me in Writing; and he said he
should not wpnder if they did.
“ Now from Taylor here I’ll answer:
Like his dream let him appear
And to make them this reply ;
He never judg’d himself so higlv
Nor of himselfso high did think.
When dangers thinkstand on,the'bnukf
To say they would pot hastenou
As site had foretold ere they began;
Digitized by
A CO M M tW ICAW pi* G lV ,» N
And how these writings she did fjordftoyr
Could he pretend to look into ? 4
. ^
Too high lor,him the mysteries werfe..
He could not see his duty clear £ {
To exercise in things sohigh.
And see the learned silent lie; .
If it was wrong what she bad done,
The things to them were all made known y ^
And as they did not her reprove, . ;
Should he pretend the cause tpmove ?
,
•i Or on himselfpretend to take *
A thing in hand if they; would not ? .
If they’d he4
er tell her it was wrong, *
It was His place' to hold his tongue,
As silent they did give it up, .
Or could not judge what she did write.
If she ne’er blush’d to write to them, , •
To say theLord did her command.
They would n6t tell her she was wrong*
The Lord to her could not Ireknown,
And that her head was out of tune,
The days were past that spirits came,
And shme infusion fill’d her head* .. 1 -
And the disorder fast will spread , , .
If she indulge such passions sttohg,
' To think the Spirit downwould coia&
And that the Ix>rd was now the same, t
And J ah J ehovah was his name, ,
And make thtf Law and Gospel ohe,
Then prophecies must surely come ;
For then Christ’s Spirits from op high $
His Gospel ends with prophecy: -
And ifsne takes this in her head, .
For to believe all Christ has said,
Or his disciples after him,
' Infusion fast will filLher brain
To judge she cannot go astray,
While on her Saviours words she lay, -
, That his infusion can’t deceive *
The soul that does in Christ believe ;
For if she does this way go on
The rock’s too high, from man she’ll climb
Till ]tis too lattf to pull her down j
She judg’th her Lord is in the sounds
Where she docs hear the small still Voice
That soon will make the Church rejoice $
Though nationsshake, and cannons roar,
She jude’th her Lord is near the shore,
And will the guilt of women free—
A hone of him ne’er broke shall te,
Because she was the hone of Man.
The Spirit’s reasoning will be strong
And if she doth with him confide
She'll throw our learning all aside, , .
Digitized by Google
Attdman must crumble into dust, . .
ISaked as Adam he was cast
As -ftohian sav’d through child-birth here,
Though long the burthen she did bear*
And now the fault she’ll cist on men, .
Because they silent stood so long*
And gave her tip an easy pijey j ,
Then now judge in what hands she lfy— ’
If you’ll confess she isinmine, .
I will not blame you to resign,
And give her wholly to my care;
Like Adam*do and copy her ;
But if you’ve lefther.aljfthis while,
And say that Satan’s arts beguil’d,
I ask my shepherds how they’ll stands
For now my sheep I do demand ;
And leave the ninety-nine behind, ^
For the lost sheep I bid them find ; • ■ '
Or else my shepherds be no more,
If of my sheep you’ll not take care. , A
Should I demand from Taylor’s hand
To judge your flock how they do stand }
Did Tcommit them to his care > v .
Or to tile Holy Ghost to swear ? '
For he’s no shepherd,, but a sheep; ,
AiwHfyour flock you- will not keep, i
If one do break the rest will go; , ,
Judge for yourselves if it be not so ;
Because together sheep will keep, *
And last will go if one dp break ;
And if jrour phefep be.gone astray, ^
Then fast your flock will go that way. ,
She hath led them to a pasture new,.v ^
Back of themselves they’ll never gp;
They’ll taste the goodness of the ground;
They’ll ne’er regard the shepherd’ssound;
The more they stray the more they’ll see,
And better pasture it will be,
,Till to the flock they’ll surely come,
And mount so high that none can climb
To pull them down your sheep to kill:
- The fountain shall be gushing still.
To keep them from the butcher’s knife—
I’ll drown the foes that seek their life*
So Taylor now in this I’ll clear,
And tell them how I’ve chus’d him here ,
To judge the pasture and the ground
That you are in, how It is found,
Whether the grass is not come bare,
And many sheep are starving here;
That is‘to say. they ’do want food,
The *heep mustjudge if it be good
For to supply their every w^nt, .
And know the grass if it be scant;
G
N&frLBCT OF THE SHEPHERDS PROVED. 4$
Digitized by Google
A C O IW ^ N fC A T ftm 'G lV S W Hk 1 7 § 7
And if the bitter herbs do grow, -
Instead ofEgress, thesheep must lcnoW? .
Becausethe bitters they must taste, ,
While shepherds at their tables feast
Therefore my sheep I chose them low*.
That they might judge if it be tm e.r *
Now if my sh£ep i chose them high* .
That in fne best of pastures Ue,
They'd say thatall wereat the full j 1
A plenteous pasture makes them dull
To bear another sheep complain ;
They never wish to change their groundy.
Nor in such lowly pasture tread,
Wherein the starving shtep are laid *
Regardless i f the bleating sheep.
In plenteous pastures carelesssleep.
But now the Subject 1; shall end— '
The middle station ate my friends*
Whose earsart open to every cry-^* *
A heart'to feel, but can't supply
A ll the distresses he doth hear,
Though oft the burthen he dothbeat %
.
Because he knows he can't relieve, 1
A feeling heart doth often grieve ‘
To see his suffering brethren here
Bow’d doWn so deep with earthly earn*
Now thy past writings call to tnind :
’ When Leech's judgment was confin'd*
1 said the grapes were all to high— '
After your manner 1*11 comply $
For when 1 stoop'd to dwell with men*
Aftqpdheir manner I conform'd; s
Nowin the Spirit I’m the same, ’
And oft seem trifling with mankind>
For as your custom l do do,
T is your own words I do pursue;.
Fdr should I always speak in mine *
v If would be Latin to mankind ;
" Such Latin they could never ready
NofW»derttsgm a word was said.
But to the purpose 1 shall come:
Thou khow'st that 1 did tell thee then*
That if.thy words they did deny
I bid them give thy pen the lie, .
And gain their victories in the war*
And feed the starving hungry poor*
And ho complaining in your land.
Then thee and I would silent stand
As in a prison to be bound;
If peace andplenty could be fhjind,
And every heart they would set frecy
Then men must gain the victory.
I said the shadow was begun;
I said the substance fait would comes.
' Digitized by Google
’SHBt &B.pJiE>Riyfr6 OP THEFEQ1JLE. 5 1
For their complaining will be. mpre— :;
Let Tgylp; see tjh^.niystery clp^,;
And judge if they don’t; se^ it so,:
Andtpvthe starving poor ppw gp, -
Whose. <?lpthesuse sold by fluch distress;\
Though thfc d m ^Qund,pay feeling
To see the sufferings of the “
pool-;
But how can I their suffering clear,
sinless I give tby peh th^ Iie ?
' Like men the truth I must deny:
I l^nawhoy? all is sealed up, ‘
But well f know that tfcou'st forgot;*
And when tHy seak are broken here >
The perfect truth must then appear.
If Taylor cannot judgy thy hand,
I bid him carefulju^ge the LiOid,
And tell if things are not worse hei;e
’ Than wh,en tli^e shadows did appear;
I say when com it first did rise
Amazing high and all surprize;
But now you say your com s more low,
In this your arguments I'll shew:
If this be low* the rest is high.
The poor, for want of bread do cry;
And fatalier now they’ll feel the blow,
Although yOur corn you say’s more low?
The labour’s taken from their hands—
Let Taylor nowjudge as a man;
If he had got no gold.instore,
And all his labour was stopt here,
That he a penny could not gain.
Would he notjudge a fatal time,
To see his family in distress,
To beg for mercy from the rest?
For perfect so do thousands stand,
Since labour was stopt in your land;
Then sure the substance did come here
Worse than the shadow was before;
Nor can you tell where this will end— -
>
They’ll fipd it deep all thou bast penn’d.
Now mark the mao that wfeborn blind;.
His parents’ judgment was confin'd; ,
They knewnot how I cured their son.
But sure the truth they then did own;
That he was blind, but then did see,
To them appear’d a mystery *
,
And hear the answer they did make;
That for himself Jlte son must speak.
Because he was ofproper age,
And hr himself must be thejudge.
• Sonow let Taylor do the same,
And saycthe truth be sure must own:
Thy words and writings haye come tru£;
fiat how it was he doth not know;
"■ 6 3 ,
i Digitized by Google
But he’ll refer them unto thee
To tell them how this thing could be,
That thou receivedst so clear a sight
To see before the things were right;
Or how these things thou didst foresee.
Thou art ofage to answer they.”
The following communication was given, Sep­
tember, 179 7, in answer to people’s saying my
prophecies were not all fulfilled, and M r. Pomeroy’s
saying, that I should warn o f' the rod before it fell.
**For now to reason I’ll begin: •
If for myself was all my care.
It must be well, I’d nought to fear;
It was my love that brought me down,
Then love might have carried back again,
If that selfdove had then been all,
Like those that do my equal call,
(And say my image they do bear,
When for themselves is all their cart.
>But can they answer my demand ?
To be my equals will they staud
For to be mock’d at Pilate’s bar !
And confess mv Gospel they will clear,
That if i was the Son of God
I bought their ransom with mv blood,
And did not^mock the sons of men ?
For now to reason I’ll begin :
When my disciples I did leave,
And to mv Father i did cleave,
To die upon the cursed tree,
%
The victim’s blood it must be m e,
And for all nations to atone—
To cleanse their blood t shed my own ;
' . And said the Holy Ghost should come,
The Comforter it must be known,
And all to your remembrance bring,
• When 1 as Prophet, Priest, and King,
Do in this lower world appear:
x As very man I will be here,
\ Man’s equal then I'll surely be,
When in my shepherds all shall see;
For others shall the likenessbear,
The Holy Ghost with them shall share.
And then my Bible will come on—
'These words will stumble ignorant men,
And so false Christs will then arise,
If Pomeroy do not now act wise
~ . To prove this calling now is clear,
He never did his record bear.
But if his record he did bear
l Impostors fast would now appear,
52 A COMMUNICATION GIVEN IN SEPT. 1797*
Digitized by Google
Andsay they were the Very men 1
„To whom the Holy Ghost was come;
- 1 Therefore I brought it round by you $ ^ •
'. - My Spirit came in ninety-two;
, : / And every thing is there foretold, ' , .
And wonders deep may all behold. r * - '
For Alpha and Omega’s here,
IJhe mysteries deep I Uq
w
~will clear:
la m the first, I am the last; •
* For by the Woman all was cast;
Then bv the Woman I’ll begin,
, The Paradise by her you’ll win;
Fof here your bliss may be complete: f "
Dig deep and seej f there’s deceit;
^And if you find it is truiegold, ~
The pearl of great price you then behold
I ’Ve brought it round in such a way;
: My salve I’ve made with such a clay
That sure quite lost your sight must be,
• If this don’t make the blind to see.
v \ Nowjfthe deaf refuse to hear _
Such trumpets sounding uTtheir ears,
. Then sure the adder must abound, . _
* ~And stop the eartoHrown the sound.
For men as fools must now become,
Weaker than women must be known, /
{T o think it was in ninety-two
That all these wonders thoudidst know;
And every shadow is begun, " ' :
They’ll say thesubstance is not come* *
No, no; I say, it is behind, .
And Pomeroy’s words are in my mind— %
' , “ What use to speak when all is come?
<
eIt was too late to stop the storm,”
The rod hangs hovering (’tis not down,)
To waive the blow, then judge the sound;
Because the blow you may prevent
And make your nation be content
To wait the coming of their L ord ;
Then plenteous harvests I’ll afford,
If men do judge thy written hand,
And publish now what I command;
But if this thing they do refuse,
To see the threatenings will not chuse,
A fataller harvest shall come on—
This year the shadow is begun;
For these two harvests area sign
How I shall deal with all mankind.” /
ANT ANSVTM TO THE WOBDB OP UNBELIEVERS. 58
TheAtiswer fothe above, given Jan. 2 6 , 1805.
“ Now I shall answer thee, before thou goest fur­
ther, the meaning of this communication. Know it
Digitized by Google
begins to shew all men how different the conducts o f
the best of men are, from copying After mb : mark
♦ the manner of all my disciples, and weigh deep
how I have explained i f ; and know in the end how
Peter denied me, and how my disciples saw and fled.
N ext see how I have chosen Pomeroy to he a disciple
for me ; but when he saw dangers coming upon him,
he acted like my former disciples,' and denied like
Peter, and fled like the others. Here I have shewed
thee the true picture of man; and how perfect the
latter acted like the former. As soon as the shadow
was turned from him, and appeared in others; Mid
the heat of men’s anger began to bum Against him,
he did not see the shadow in the others to shelter
himself that way. Here you may see the true state
of man when he is not overshadowed by my Spirit $
as one spark of fire will go out by itself, if it be not
renewed by another, sq it went out, by Pomeroy’s
being alone. But now I shall come to thee: tliou
knowest I have said my Spirit visits thee; then how
could that spark go out without thou hadst provoked
me to anger to ' leave thee ? Can my spirit be
quenched by the persuasion of others, if it be not
quenched by the person to whom it comes ? Now
roy Spirit was never quenched by thee, thoagh thou
hast grieved my Spirit by thy fears, and by tby jea­
lousy, when men and devils pressed hard upon thee:
and so the woman grieved mb at first, by the subtil-
ty of the devil; but as I said I was the first that
created her for man’s good, so 1 will be the last to
accomplish it. And now I shall come to Pomeroy’s
words— “ to warn of the rod before it was fallen.”
Know I told thee, the rod hung hovering, but was
not down; and I, now tell thee, all the judgments
that have been in your land, from 1797 to this day,
or from 1702 to this day, are but the rod hanging
over your land"4
, for I tell thee, if unbelief and
mockery Abound, and persecution still go on, they
will see more destructipn in one year, than they have
&4 A COMMUNICATION' OF SEPTEMBER, 17$Tv
Digitized by Google
EXJP%AmSt»8XTffECOW8UCT OF POMEROY. 55
seen in aUtheformer ; As I see lingering judgment*
d<> not open,the eyes, but harden the heart. And
now I shall ,come to the ending of thy communica­
tion-tthou knowest I told thee in 179 7, if all the
truths put in Pomeroy’s hand, with all the truths
that had happened before, did not awaken the mi­
nisters to search out the truth, the harvest of 179 7
was a type of a. more fatal hardest that should come.
Now thou knowest, at the end of the year Pomeroy
went to Nutcoiilbe to try if the ministers would come
forward, but- tljey all refused; then I ordered thee
to go to Bristol, and gave thee the threatenings of
the. two harvests: that should follow. After these
harvests had followed thou knowest Pomeroy tried
again; but . all to no purpose; then 1 ordered thy
Writings s.hoajd go out-by his judgment alone; and
by his jucfgment'was published what I commanded,
and brought forward other believers; then followed
(he three harvests like the harvest of the 1796#
Now let all men discern how this prophecy was
spoken, and-how it wat fulfilled; then they will see
the shadow begun in Pomeroy, to have thy writings*
published to the world, in the manner he command­
ed ; for I qrdered thee to obey his command. Now
he began the shadow alone of changing the scenes for
the harvest; so the Shadow in him broojght the sub­
stance in the others ; for they could not believe what
they had never seen nor heard; so Pomeroy went on
perfectly as I told thee, as a true disciple of mine,
till he began: to be a denying Peter. So now leave
the man, till thou hast seen the end ; yet let all be­
lievers pity the man, as thou pitiest him ;. and
judge him, as thou judgest him^ walking, in the
, footsteps of his mast er till he was thrown down by
men: and know what I have told thee— one Spark
will go out by itself ; and as one spark of fire he
stood atone. Now let this he pondered deep in all
your hearts, how Pomeroy went on in my ^office;
and yet thou sayest.in thy heart, my threatenings
Digitized by v ^ r O O Q l e
. stand still against him, as he did not now appear $
but thou knowest not how my threatemngs stand :
He must -see the Book, of thy Trial', and how thy
Trance is placed, before he can tell what anchor to
fix to—
Sojudge no more till all*be o'er,
Nor yet condemn the man j
But from thy dream let all see clear \ ; t
The way the end must come; ’ / Vr
So write thy dream, and I’ll explain.
But mark this follow next
Unto the words before were penn'd, ^
Then see how all was fix’d.’* c ' f'*
The former communication ended on Monday,
September, 1797* The Tuesday night I dreamt I
saw a slide of corn funfting on fast by .itself, without
men,or horses; and at this I marvelled. I thought I
was soon after in a spacious room, and saw three ta-<
bles laid for dinner: one was so elegant that.I never
saw any like it. -
■ , ,
THE ANSWER OF THE SPIRIT.-
Joanna, here I shall appear
And tell thee of the corn,
That in this manner did appear— ;
The time is hastening on
That nten will be as thou didst see >
. Such wonders 1shall do, ' ^
That men will go the truth to know:
And thou mayest marvel how
In such a haste thev’ll run so fast,
That long have silent stood.
No horses there did then appear,
But hurried through the mud.
Now I’ll explain what this doth mean:
The sliding corn appear—
And every letter thou hast sent
And slide from ear toear,
Until the corn, it will be known,
Will so push on the. slide
For men to kno\V how things will go:
Such letters are applied,
That men in haste will then run fast—
No horses did appear.
So now to thee the truth thou’lt see,-
Thou aeedest send no more \
56 A COMMUNICATION GIVEN I1TSEFT. I j g j *
Digitized by Google
For sure without thou’st nought to doubt,
The corn will surely come
Just as the slide did not abide*
But hasty went alone;
Just so will men r.s things dre seen,
t Theyjl see the mud appear,
And oh they’ll run, for danger’s come—
. But Pomeroy must appear.”
bR$AM Of SLlbfi Ob CORN, AND TtiREE TAbLES.57
*thefollowing is given in answer to the above5
January, 20, 1805.
“ So let them draw their judgment from the last
communication, and I shall answer thefe again.—
N ow I shall answer thee from the dream : You
have all drawn your judgment is the shadow, but
never Ipoked deep, to the substance, how the dream
standsi and how it was explained, that the slides
were filled up with corn, which I compared to men;
and the slide ran along of itself drawing on the corn;
N ow mark this last year, what letters have been sent
to the bishops and the clergy, besides all the former
letters. Now mark the judgment of men, how they
thought their silence would put a stop to the whole ;
and did not think dangers would come on, as I had
threatened; so they refused to come while invited ;
and they refused to be drawn while believers tried to
draw them by my command ; but I now tell thee,
the faith of believers* the dangers that will throated,
the letters that have been . sent* and the faith that
will abound when the Book of thy Trial is out in the
world, will be upon their minds to press them, and
load them with jealousy, fill them with anger,kand
With fear ; so that like a slide pressed with corn will
the unbelievers now awake, that have beeh so long
warned, so long invited, and thou wilt have no rea­
son tb warn them any more; and this I told thee
when thy Trial was over, they would have no more
invitation from m e ; for if thy Trial was called over
again, they must Come forward of themsfelves, with­
out any invitation from m e ; and perfectly so stands
thy dream, ahd the explanation thereof, if you Uis-
H Digitized by C j O O ^ I C
cern it deep to weigh one thing with the other.
And now I shall come to the tables ; for there your
judgment went deep. The first table thy writings
w^re spread on was at Paddington, when judges and
jury met together; the second table was at Carpenter’s,
when the number was encreased ; but the last land
beautiful table is behind, that was so richly furnish­
ed. But here your ideas went all wrong, to think
the elegant and beautiful table, that was so richly
furnished, alluded to the rich and great, because
they must call forward thy T ria l; for they are the
slides that will be pressed by the faith of believers ;
therefore I told thee, in another communication, I
had two judges in my view, and there thou drewest
thy judgment right, by a thought that came from
m e ; for the two judges, as men, allude to the judg­
ment of believers that are drawn by my Spirit, and
the judges of men that trust in their own wisdom,
and the wisdom of one another : the one are judges
by faith, whereby Abraham obtained the promise ;
the other are judges by the wisdom of men from
themselves, that is pronounced to fall; for know it
is written,.the wisdom of this ^vorld shall perish and
come to qpthing ; but faith is a gift that shall stand
' for ever to them that abide in their faith. And now
I shall tell thefc of the beautiful table, which is the
third, more elegant than the rest; fdrthen will ap­
pear the truth of my words, the riches of my mercy,
goodness, and truth, to bring back the glories of
•Paradise to man, adorned with all the fruits of iny
W ord, and the fruits of my Spirit; and thou wilt
see in that day such beauties from the Lord as
thou never sawest before.
The tables here I now shall clear,
That l did .shew thee three :
Thou knowest the war I plac’d thornhere,
For so the end will be ;
And vet, I say, another way
I now shall place them here: ^
The tablefirst I now shall place
The pr o m ise to appear ; t
Then sure the next 1 here shall, fix,
I , The table's plain for €
59 THE COMMUNICATION EXPLAINED.
' When I did die their guilt to free
The sepond table stands ; .
Then now the thirds behold my word*
The promise I must dear ;
And then the beauty you will see ‘
When I have ended here.
The tables come the three to join,
• For so my Bible stands, .
And as the shadows I’ve plac’4 here
To place it first to man ;
1 said theJtrst the table burst,
Thy writings did appear, , *
When judges and jury so were piae’4
To see the writings clear; '
The second time, call all to mind,
You say is past and gone ;
' The wondrous beauty thou didst not find
So long tho\i’st built upon. .
t Thy heart and mind is always bound,
Longing thy trance to see ;
And disappointed thou dost find
. Thyself these things to see. >
But now the third, behold my word,
The table will appear
In every beauty from thy L ord,
‘ And thou wilt see all clear.
So here to man the tables stand
The way I’ve plac’d are two ;
. The promise first was ma4e to men
To bring all to their view: , , ’
The woman stood, know, for your good •
The table first must come;
Then to ray b ir t h you must allude,
' As I of her was bom ;
Then now the third, behold my word,
The Promise ^ll fulfil,
And Satan’s head, as 1 have said,
By my avenging heel
Shall surely fall—r tell you all,
Thoti didst the serpent fear,
And left the weeds that there did breed,
The barley field see clear;
The wheat by thee, they all may see,
Thou surely* weed st in there;
But when the serpent thou didst see,
The barley field appear, v
Thou all didst leave—be not deceiv’d
/ . The wheat is all my care:
For if the serpent frightens all,
The latter crops may fear. ,
So I’ll end here and say no more;
«Mark how the wheat did stand:
T o kill the weeds thou didst appear.
To cleanse the wheat for mam’*
H a
JHE SLIDE OF CORN, AND THE THREE TABLES. 59
Digitized by Google
The latter, part of this communication, given this
day, January 26, 1805. alludes to a communication
given in 1797 as follows: I dreamt I was at S id -
mouth, in my elder Brother’s ground, in the fields
called High Street. There were three fields, one
after the other, adjoining to the hilj; the other side
of the way were two fields, called New Park, and
W arp. These five fields were one after the other,
only parted by the high road. I thought I was in
these fields with a numberless sight of people that
said, they were waiting to see the spldiers pass by th$
road and some of the soldiers entered the field. 1
cannot remember every particular, as all seemed in
gmat bustle; but I thought I conversed with some o f
the officers, who said, they were coming, and soon
after 1 saw the road covered with soldiers. All the
Right I was in much confusion with strange dreams,
THE ANSWER OF THE SPIRIT.
60 DREAM OF SOLDIERS HER BROTHER’S FIERAS.
“ Another day I’ll it explaip—
Though nought appears to the$:
111 shew tlie field wnere all shall yield,
And how they warp’d shall be.
1 said thy dream l' would explain
To thee another day:
Mark thou the pit so near to if.
For there the dangers lay:
The fields are high ; the time draws nigb, ^
That high it will appear;
Your soldiers go (it will be so,)
Ami make them how with tear.
The Park is Abtr now to your view?
And urtc t/.'iiigs now will come :
Your soldiers here will so appear,
And gather fast the throng:
But who can see the mystery ?
For here thy pen goeth deep;
A wise man he must surely be
^That iiow can it explain;
Yet it will come, like Jacob’s sons
That did to Egypt go, '* c
When Joseph there to them appear'd—►
The end is high and low,
Now mark this ground, when first ’twas foyjid
Thy Brother’s to possess;
The fiarley there it did appear,
The serpent wound thy breast,
Or fright tnee so; thou well dost know
Thou didst not weed at all,
(JUDGMENTS AEEN IN THE HARVEST OP 1.707?
Put altogether did let go—
And so the end will fall, *
The barley then it was so strong
That some part did fall down:
J tell thee now, before ’tis long
Th.ou’lt surely hear the sound.
Thou knowest the wheat, without deceit,
Thou surely weedst with care;
The iields were high where it did lie:
Thou knowest the hills were near,
\yhere thou didst begin some pleasing dream
To build on Noahs ark;
Because that there it did appear
Love soon ensnar’d thy heart
Simple to man this thing might seem,
.Butyet the type goes deep;
For Noahs here will so appear
And surely make thee weep.
The fault was thine, now I'll resign,
Thy anger rose too soon;
„ Thou didst resent and then relent,
And cloud thy sun ere noon.”
After I had written this communication and said
to Mrs. Minifie, I had seen the truth of the harvest
of the 1 707, Mrs. Minifie said, it was not so bad
as people had made out; and she saw no judgments
in it; for if k did hurt one thing it brought forth and
didgood to another (the grass). T o her words I was
answered—
**Doth Minifie so blindly s^e
Nojudgments in your land)
No dangers here to her appear,
But all things well do stand*
If all do see as blindas she* . .
Seal tfll thy writings up.
And men shall know I’ve spoke by thee,
Another harvest drop; *
I’ll make it plain, by sun or rain
Your harvest I shall spoil: \
' If all do see like Minifie,
Your husbandmen I’ll foil.
For I’ll go on as I’ve begun;
This is (he shadow here,
The storm shallblow, you all shall know,
Shall surpiy foil you here;
But if they say another way—
4
<Thatjudgments are begun;
Thy writings we demand to see,
N “ And judge from whence they come)
u I f’t be from God we’ll fear his rod,
, “ And tremble athis word;
V We will obey what he doth say - ’ N
♦ •If we find’tis the L o ^ T tl2edbyG o o g [ e
I’ll niake^it plain to every matt
' That I have spoken here, q
To make the stubborn Jews to come9
My calling shall be clear:
For judges two are in my view, >
When they together sit, -
My jurymen, you all shall know,
, Shall tremble at my feet; "r
?
The thing fcoplain shall then be seen ' r
. That every soul shall fear
For to deny ’tis not from me,
But own their Lord is here;
It shall abound in every sound—
M*Tis plain it comes from God:
What further witness now need we;
“ Let us maintain his word,”
The judge will clear the jury here,
The jury clear thejudge, *
x And all will own I’ve spoken here,
' Then what have men to alledge,^
. Against your King or Sovereign brilig?
As this was mrydecree
. For to awake the stubborn Jews, t
Their calling thev may see: ’ ' '
*Tis for their sakes 1 must awake
And prove my Bibld true; ,
The time is come they must come home;
The Gentiles and the Jews: N
* , When this is done the scales will tunv
And England shall rejoice; .
- Til change thewheel beyond men’s skilly '
And they shall know my voice.
. , Like Woollattd here I’ll say once more, . >
The sooner this is done.
The sooner I shall set you free, >
And better days will come;
v This Land I’ll bless, and bring a peace.
And make your foes submit -
But on conditions all do lie ;. .
The mystery there lies deep—
^All that begin, “ My Lord and King,
" Thoh'rt surely welcome home! ' .
41 Oh, thou desire of nations come
/ “ And govern all thy own;
* Thy kingdom come, thy will be done;
** And earth resemble heaven; -
, " And let all flesh thy Spirit feel,
- ** And every sin forgiven l”
Jsow I’ll end here atid say no more— ,
But sorrows will abound,
If men, like Eastlake, now appear* ' ■ *
* R^fufce tojudge the sound;
Then mark the stake, for fast the lak$
Wjll open to your view; ,
If men do say, like him that day,
««We do refuse to go.”
Here ended this communicationP SefU 30, 1797*
02 a COMMUNICATION o n t h e h a r v e s t OF 1797.
Sunday evening, January 27, 1805.
T h e explanation of the dream of my being in my
elder brother’s ground; the serpent in the barley; ,
the soldiers, and other particulars.
il Now I shall explain the meaning of weeding the
w heat, and leaving the barley. . Thou knowest, in
£ l thy writings, as well as my Bible, I have com­
pared my people to wheat; and now thou knowest
how carefully thou didst weed the wheat, because
thy love for a man drew thee there *. And now l
tell thee, I am the same1
: my love for man is to
bring them to the a r k of the n e w c o v e n a n t ;
not like Noah’s ark, that was soon destroyed, and
his love so soon decayed; for know how soon Noah’s
love turned to anger, when he cursed his son ; and
th y Noah’s love turned the-same, when thou didst
begin to slight him ; and yet I tell thee, there the
type stands deep ; for know, thy love never could
turn to anger against N oah; and I now tell thee,
m y love shall be/the same unto all the Noahs that
obey my command, as Noah did to build the ark.
There stands the shadow of the wheat: the wheat is
man that 1 shall pull the weeds from, and cut them
o ff with as much care as thou didst the weeds in thy
brother's grounds; and much greater than thy love
was to go in the wheat fields for the sake of thy lo­
ver, my love is now come to visit my wheat, where
m y lovers are: and my lovers are these that are
longing for my coming, as thy lover longed to see
thee in the wheat field : he visited his sheep in love
to thee, and the com was in his view ; perfectly so,
I now tell thee, are believers come by me ; they vi­
sit my flock, they are with my flock, b uttheir eye
-is, like thy lover, Iqoking and waiting for my com­
ing, and my kingdom'to be established.
So of the wheat, I tell thee, great
The type stands deep for men,
Who wish for me, as he for thee
Did wish to see thee come}
And thou the same, I know thy fratne, •• *
How love was planted there.
* See page 27 of the book entitled, Letters and Communications,
printed at Stourbridge by the Rev. Mr. Foley ift ISO*.
TYPES OF T0E WHEAT AND BARLET. 63
64 THE WEEDING IN. 1707 EXPtAIIT*#l
So fromtfiis love I now shall prove
The end for all draws near;
The fields were high, as I did say#
And high shall be fpraft :
'that now their calling will obey,
My wheat shall never fall: *
The weeds thatspring I sbftH begin .
To pluck them«as they grow;
Til cut them off, (I’ve said enough)
The wheat my love shall know.
Thou weed st it first, mark howwas plac'd*
Thy love was fixt for man;
And whentlve harvest day was cast,
Thou knowest hy thy weak hand r
Thou lad’st it in, the truth is seen,
And so I shall go through ; 1
For how my wheat I’ll surely screen#
It is before my view,
Begun by thee, they all must see, *
And all by thy weak hand;
Thou lov’st the corn, it must be knowto#
Where thy believers stand.
The shadowfirst see how'twas plac'd,,
And how 1-did explain;
Kow see thy lovers now they’re cast
To win tne heart that’s tnirdj
The weeds that spring to hurt MV GRAltt'
By thy weak hand I’ll cut;
But when l come to make an end
Tis l the roots shall pluck. .
So now discern how I do Warn, -
What shadow's plac’d before ;
Ahd now thy lovers all discern,
What Noahs do appear
To make thy hand in love to stand,
And cut the weals all through.
But this is done by spy command, '
The end is in iny view: •
The harvest strong is hastening on
For to secure my wheat ;
And then to lade my corn thou’lt come#
Thy strength will then be "real;
For to be seen it will begin—*
Bot mark how this did tail;
Because some corn, to thee was known#
The,horse did throw the whole,
Ere it cam# home, to thee was known ;
By man ’twas laden again;
A mystery here the end will dear,
And all will see it plain;
Because that man must *ake in hand
The thing that thon st begun: .
Though simple herC tl * type does stand#
The end will so come on. '
Bo now land back thy every thought#
The way thy harvest ?nd;
Digitized by Google
The landlord, seeing whatthou hadst done*
Gave orders to his men,
That they should go andhelp thee through,
. And so they did appear; .
And in the end ’tis my intend % *
That way the whole to clear.
So now discern how this did come,
And judge from first to last:
NBut frour the barley’t must be known
The serpent so was plac’d, •
Which made thee yield and quit the field,
Let all together grow,
Until the mowers did cut down
The stubble and the straw;
' The weeds were there did still appear, ~
And none thou didst cut down;
Nor didst thou try, 1 11 tell thee why, ,
The serpent so was found
£or to possess and wound thy breast,
And fill thy heart with fear:
' Such poisonous thing to thee was seen,
So thou didst leave all there.
So this will be the end of thee, ,
When to the barley come,
The latter crops that now do mock
* By Satan’s arts ’tis known;
For as the serpent in the field
Did unto thee appear,
Just so the serpent makes men yield ■
To think from weeds they’re clear;
So thou wilt say, they clear may be,
The serpent thou’lt espy,
, And say no weeds are cut by me,
Let all together lie.
Could’st thou discern how here I warn, % i
Or man the end could see,
■- The latter crops for to forsake , ,
The serpent frightens thee; .
And so ’twill fall, I tell them all, .
The latter crops will come:
The barley see the end to be,
Which I compare to man
That is not wheat—the mystery’s greats
And Satan close lies there ■
To frighten all, both great and small;
And let the weeds appear,
Remain to grow till I shall mow
The whole together down.
So men 4hay fear the barley here,
• ’ And tremble at the sound, ,
That no\V do stand as barley strong,
The serpent in the field, * ,
To cut the weeds that none may come
till all together yield.
TYPE OF'THE SERPENT IN THE BARLEY FIELD. '65
Digitized by Google
6 6 a eo M M u m xrA T io ir c i v e i t iw a u g u s t , 1 7 9 7 .
The thing is deep, thousands nay weep.'
Did they the meaning know:
The serpent did his footing keep
To let the weeds to grow,
Till lunvest came to cut them down,
And then they did appear,—
Thy brother laugh'd to mow the ground,
And then thy words mark there:
There were no weeds, he said, did breed,
Thou told’st him at the tint; <
But now ’twps plain they could be seen,
Aud all together cast.
So this HI end: but now see plain
The way it happen'd so;
.The-serpent did the footing gain,
That all alike might grow,
Till, harvest came to cut all down—
Then now my Gospel see;
1 say, the serpent will be found ,
To keep the weeds with he y
Where there's no wheat there is dece
And Satan's footing strong;
The barley ,here for drink appears,
And drunk will men go o n *
'
Drunk with the poison of Iris word
_Tliat he will workJn man;
DruuTcTroni the knowledge of their L ord ;
My Spirit cannot come
To weed the grain where he remains •/
Strong to possess the whole; \
ISo, no: that field will neveryield
Till all together folk" „ ____ _ _ f
The following communication, was given, August
4, 1797 • The ram came, and M r. Woolland had
a field of wheat that was so taken with the rust and
canker that he was obliged to-have it. cut down
green, and they Said it must be a great while upon
the ground to.be dried up before it could be housed;
for it would not bear the threshing. I Was answered
, in the following manner:
“ Now stop thv hand and sav no more
Till I have fully answer'd here:
Sudden as Michael,now drd come,
So sudden will the truth be known,
Unless that men do now begin
To copy after thee;
And let your paper go between*,
That every man may see
* This alludes to pieces o f paper, which Joanna* when interrupted
in her writings, put as marks to findwhere she was reading,as she then
was by a person of the name of Michael, who then entered abruptly*
Digitized by Google
TYPE DP:THE CORN 'WITH-RtTST AND. CANKER.' 6j
v The reason plain l sent the rein,
And brought such harvest on
T o make it dear I’ve spoken here,
And every type ipcome. ' t
The Sword began, the liarvest ends
Ahd nonedosefe the rod ^
That «Joth;appear so hovering here, .*"•
And fear an angry God,
T hat diey provoketo bring the stroke,
And lead your land in grief$
Then HI go on ds Fve begun,
To prove, your unbelief
Hathmqdeit plain to efery mind; */ •
For Noah’s days are“
here.
And Sodom and*Gomorrah too,
If none begin to &ar.
The corn is green, it may be seen, ,
That Wooliand doth cut down; '
And soft as.man the corn doth stand
If none can judge the sound;
It will notbear the threshold here,* *
Beforei f dfcth harder gfow;
Just Sd are-men as now they st^nd* • ,
< They cannot bear a blow. \ ,
l$ew ill explain *hat I do mean,
thou art,puzzled here; < - . /
The softness that is in their brain , . ; ’
Doth like the grain appear:
And if they come as now they stand,
Before tney are cut down, ’
And.harderherethey must appear
To judge from whencfethe sounds •
3>hou)d I begin to thresh these men,
y r With softness ip their head,
, !It must them spbil, my threshers foil,
And never-come to bread.’ " > «
Doth this appear^ mystery here ? *
Then I will speak more plain : ; ,, w
To think that thee writ’st not from me :
Is softnes in men’s brains; ,
And if they stand as now they are
The fu4 will eat them through}
The cancer here it will appeal
And eat thein as they go; ’
' But Til begin to cut them down, * .
* My reapers must go on :
If they .grow hardeu’d on the ground,
Then let ,my threshers come.”
This communicationis to befurther explained, Herr
tended, Friday, ji&gust 4 , 1797*
1 3
Digitized by Google
68 A- COMMUNICATION GIVEN IN AUGUST^
Sunday, the 6th e f August? 1797. ''
The disputes were great concerning’ the wheat;
some said, that a great part of the corn in some
grounds was good; others said, it was the worst
they ever knew. This is the first dry day I have
seen since the reaping began : my mind was like a
fever, agitated with the different opinions of men;
and I had a violent pain in my head, to which I
was answered—
“ Go thou to sleep and ease thy head:
If all be well you’ve nought to dread.”
A t these words'! laid down on the bed to ease the
violent pain of my head and heart; as,.from hear-.'
ing the different disputes of men, I knew if the
harvest did not grow worse men would deny its be­
ing a bad one. Channon said, the harvest of 1796
was not so very good; this provoked me to anger,
and in the night my spirits were in a violent fever; I
arose with a severe pain in my head, and was agitated
in the day to hear the different opinions of men; Mr.
Woolland’s servant John said, the com was good in
some ground as ever he had seen it ; the Rev. M r.
Symmons was of the same opinion; M r, Swailes, who
had a large farm, said, it was the worst corn he ever
saw in his life; but he hpped none would murmur;
M r. Woolland said, it was worse than when they
feared a famine. These were the different opinions
of men ; and the.appearance of fine weather alarmed
my fears, as' I thought none would own that the
judgments of God were in the land ; if the weather
broke up, a more fatal harvest must ensue; and
my heart would still be tom in pieces with men’s
unbelief; for I may say with the Psalmist'—
*' Their words like swords go through my soul,
. While thus they aH upbraid:
Deluded wretch, where’s now thy God,
Where's now thy prpmis’d aid ?
n
. , *\
Digitized by Google
/
A.BOTTB,TME HARVEST ANSWERED. '
A t these pondenhgs -of my owii heart and feelings
I was answered__
“ Now thou hast ended Til begin:
Call thou to mind the former things;
- 1 said thy heart they’d break in twain,
And say thy writings were not mine ;
If I should daily blessings send
Men would deny what thou hast penn’d.
And fast thy fever would come on ;
The land or thee must deeply mourn, *
For unbelief will break thy heart;'
, If England doth not teel thelmarfr
"Tsaia, fhy pSsslollg"TOtild awakferv
I said, thy fever would fee great;
And great indeedit ^ill Appear, ‘
Because thy faithTve strengthen’d here,
For thou caUsttiotso blindly sec
As those^around thee blinded be; ,
Therelbre thy sorrow^ 1*11 relieve,
One way or oth^rTll reprieve,
To make tbe harvest plain appear,*
Tfeat I have surely spoken here*;
Or else Tlflay thefe in the dust, .
I f men do say it is a jest, ’ *
And ’tis by chance the things, are so*,,
Another harvest they shall know.
That they"shall sow but shall not reap *.
They’ll find that, every type goes deep—
This day thoii secst the sun does shine.
The fever’s in thy heart and mind,
While others’ hearts are gladdened h£rev
To see the weather so appear.
Now if this weather should go on
' I know that unbelief would come,
And thou must bear the cVeryload,
In bye-paths will they say thou’st trod
In bye-paths thbu hast trod ’tis true;
I ’ll bring the mysteries to thy View:
In bye-paths I do lead men on, '
Or Could their faith be ever know'll, y
That they relied upoh a God ?
The faith of Abraham here was kniow’d,
Yv lien he obedient to my will
Judg’d me a God that was faithful still*
W hen to appearance ’twas notso.
If Isaac must receive the blow,
And on the altar to be cast,
,1 ask what faith could come at last ?
Or how his offspring could appear .
To gain the land I said before ? '
M f the Lord" took Joarina from this world, they should sow, bui
Hot reap.
Digitized by Google
. \ How will the learned men dispute ,
That I should this fulfil? . '
Or what made Abraharfi to be mute • • 1
For toobey my will ? * .
His son to slay, as I did say,
* It is told thee before; .
Bufhere the learned men Til try, »
’Xo see if then’ll shew clear *
What faith in him there then did com<V *
When to the altar led . *
His only son, to them was known
The promise null and void. , ' .• ‘
Let learned*mep this thing explain ,
> ' As clear as *tirto thee;
But for the present this Til end,
As thou'st the mystery.
To Joseph come: flednimoti
In bye-paths every way; *
His faith was great without deceit,
* And him I sure did try.
s Had all been plaip—to Joseph comers
' % Then faith could never boast, . (
' That faith must surelyrescue man, ,
The fire must purge the dross.
Strong faith in me no man can see, ;
It is a gift from God,
That none can give or take aw
ay; .
•
Yet with it lies a load: , /
1 The load of sin wkh frith begins j
*Tis Satan’s arts to fry. *
And now to Job I say tnou’rt come,
For here’s the mystery:
• Did fre provoke to bring a stroke
Upon ray servant there, , ,
, To say he’d curse me to my free,
. If I afflict’d him sore?
To every maij he this hath done, i
That doth in me believe; ' ‘
. . Therefore, I say, I’ve try’d them high
“ The serpent to deceive.
So I’ll end here, and say no more,
But to the purpose come:
V Thee I must try, the reason why,
For Satan doth condemn, • -
Thou’lt not go through, he well doth know, - v
v / If 1 should foil thee here. ’
The weather brightens to thy view* ,
But let the sun-shinje clear, ^
. Then thou’lt Complain, like other men* .
And bean Atheist strong; •
For Atheism would fill thy brail},
The days were all too long: .
He knows thy passions how* they move.
And hears thy prayerslike ,
70 A COMMUNICATION ON THE SABYEST 09 179
$.
Digitized by Google
He knbws thoujudgfst I’ll not deceive,. '
If l thy writings see; \
Can it come so ? doth Satan know?
Thou ponderest in thy heart,
I must appear the truth to clear,
Or else my honour hurt,,
To let things come as they have done,
If nought from me is conceal’d.
1 sure would stop thy written hand
Thy mind thou hast reveal’d.
So Satan here doth now appear,
Thy other passions knew ;
If not from me is said by thee,
My Bible must be so;
So leave her here, he doth appear-**
. , ■ u She'll be an Atheist soon ;
**Leave me alone to work on her,
u Til cloud her sun ere noon;
* Tillead her back the fruit to plufck,
•• That thou hast so forbid.”
Therefore in Hicks he so did work;
That way his net he spread;
Now tell me plain what is thy mind,
* Wilt thou their labour do?
To Atheism art thou confin'd,
And know not how to go ?
Thy word I’ll take; for at the stake
Thy Trial soqn will come;
Wilt thou obey what I do s$y,
And firm deity the man ?”
THE ^ANSWER OF JOANNA.
" Yes, I will deny him ; for if I err k shall be on
the safest side. I never will do the work; I believe
the Lord hath forbid me. This is my fixed resolu­
tion.— T h e work that I was ordered not to do, was
to lengthen cushions that I had cut too short for
Mr. Hicks. I was ordered that they never should be
lengthened by m e; I said, I never would lengthen
them, if the Lord forbade it ; but as my jealousies
were about the harvest, this-comm unication was giveA
me, that Satan would take the advantage of my jea­
lousy ; therefore this enquiry was made me, to which
I made the answer, my jealousy should not make me
run the hazard of disobedience.
August 6th. From the harvest coming as fore­
told, it took off the load -from Joanna— The Lofd
isjust.
JOANNA TITT tO THE TRIAL OF OBEDIENCE. 71
Digitized by Google
August 13th. M r. Hicks insisted upon my com­
ing to do the work, which I refused, and he was
very warm about i t ; but I stood out resolute, that
I would not come to do it. But at last he gave it
up to m e; so I had the cushions home for M rs.
Woolland and Mrs. Minifie to lengthen them ; but.
would not dp it myself.
72 COMMUNICATION; AUGUST, 1797, e x p l a i n e d .
Sunday morning, February 10 , 1805.
The Explanation of the Field o f Corn^ and the
Answer to the Judgment drawnfrom it, by Jo ­
a n n a , T o w n l e y , and U n d e r w o o d . .
“ Now I shall tell you the reason why I ordered
you to draw your judgments, was to shew the folly
of mankind in judging of things they know nothing
about. I do not blame Townley; yet .1 shall lay
her folly before her, which I mean to bring to the
world at large. She has no knowledge of the man­
ner of corn, therefore knew not’ how to draw her
judgment aright; but thou hast known all things
concerning wheat; and from the types and. shadows
that have been placed to thee, thou didst: ponder, in
thy heart, the wheat that was.cut down being filled
with the rust and canker could not allude to be >
lievers; for if so the rust and canker must be in
them ; and their wisdom must be soft, and come to
nothing but husk in the end, which thou knowest
this corn is compared to, when shewed with good-
samples of wheat; and such corn, as thou knowest
thyself, thy father used to keep back for tail com
to give to the chickens and the fowls in his yard;
but in the time of scarcity they are compelled to.
make bread of wliat in the time of plenty they,
think is not fit to eat. So from this knowledge
thou drawest thy judgment, and thy judgment thou.
Digitized by Google
6# vita cdRft with ev$t and Yankee.
drawest right.. And now I1tell thee, it is the same
by believers; by' the true knowledge of all thy
writings, ’ knowing how every thing is spoken, how
every thing hath been fulfilled, and m what manner
all the past have come, filleth them with faith in be­
lieving, that like reapers employed - by the master,
they can g a on employed by m e to cut down this
green' corn in man, that is as full of the rust and
Canker, with the temptations of the devil within, and
the pride and conceit of their Own wisdom, as the
com was with my blast being sent upon it. And
now my command is to send forth my reapers, that
meaneth iny ;believers, to cut them down by .the
weapons o f ifiy word. And now I shall come to the
purpose WithJ the corn : know the corn was green
and soft when it was cut down ; and had it bc.en
housed and threshed in that state, it never would
have Come' to any corn at all,' but have been bruised
ih pieces, if they attempted to thresh it at first; but
if lying a lohg time together, being housed in this
state, thou knowest it would heat and catch fire;
and if it had stood in the ground till it was hardened
fit to hotlSe, the fust and canker would eat it out.
Now this is the perfect state of .man: the ending
draweth near, and the fust has taken - men’s hearts j
for Satan, like a canker-worm, worketh in them,
that all things must remain as they are; and if they
are not ciit down in this wisdoin they will perish and
never be fit for any bread for man : that meaneth,
they will never be fit to bring forward my Bible, as '
the true'bread for man; therefore they must be cut
down io their own wisdom. And now I shall ex­
plain to thee of being hardened upon the ground,
before it will bear the threshold : thou knowest
how much thou hast tried to cut down men in their
own wisdom, and how you have all tried by words to
cut them down the same; yet like the wheat, you
may bruise them in pieces, but you cannot make them
Digitized by Google
appear like cprn that is strupk with mildew and
rust; for.vvhei^eofn.is .bruised in pieces it is dis-
Stblved.an^.hatri no appearance at all; sayou can­
not shew ff? the wofldi wbat the crop was; bnt let it
lie to he hardened,, then you may get it out-of the
husk, and. shew the difference between the corn'
where the fust and canker lay, and the good corn
that was not affected at all. And now I shall come
to the purpose with rr^an, and place thy mockers.and
unbelievers in the list with those that have written
against thee; for by their books the rust and canker
is seen; andmyword is gone forth? like Woolland’s
to his reapers;—cut it down, by drawing your pens
against t£19311. , But now. suppose, as soon as your
books are gone out in the world to cijt down and
confpund their wisdom, you should go and meet,
these -men that,are full of the rust and canker; with
heads as soft as the porn, and begin to thresh with
words and dispute with them face to f a c e I tell thee
they would be like; the poru that would be bruised in
pieces, but never appear to. the world as com, con­
vinced that the mildew-and blast had taken them.
And now I shall answer thee further: The shadow
of 1797 was to shew what should happen hereafter;
~for what corn as men hadst thou at that time to cut
down, or to ^bruise ? or what reapers hadst thou
then got to cut them down ? The letters that were-
in the hands of the ministers, had they then believed
they could, not be compared to the com with the
mildew and rpst in, then if they had appeared as
believers and affirmed the truth from thy letters, I
ask thee,, who would have risen up against them ?
.In thy heart thou answerest, no one; then now dis­
cern, all the prophecy could not be fulfilled at that
time, neither was it meant at that time; but let it
be knovfri unto all men, that the hearts of all are
known unto m e , and before they spring forth I tell
you of them ; so before these men appeared I
brought the comparison of Wpblland’s wheat .to the*
74 COMMUNICATION, AUGUST 1797, BXPtAINPD*
Digitized by Google
TYPE OP THE COJtil WITH BUST AND CANKER. 75
nation at large, to shew in what manner I should
cut them down with my words; and'the servants are
the believers. Now thou mayest see from Garrett,
though he is cut down by his lies afid by the letter
that was sent, but what threshold will he now bear ?
T h e answer sheweth you,- hone : he would go on to
foil the'whole, was not my hand behind, to let him
lie upon the ground, and harden first in his unbe­
lief, till he find himself dead and shrivelled, that his
wisdqm can appear no more with the wisdom of
m y words, than wheat that is struck with the mildew
and blast can appear with a sample of good corn :
for as different as the good wheat, that is in the full
ear of perfection, and the wheat that is cut down by
the mildew' and blast, appear in a sample together,
so different will the believers, who are full of
faith, that I shall fulfil the Promises of my Bible,
and the word I promised at first, appear from
the unbelievers, as the good wheat will appear from
the bad. .
So now discern how I do warn:
From -ninety-seven see
The type I shewed thee of the corn*
How vt cut -down must be.
But ’twas not then, let all see plain,
For reapers I had none
For to appear and cut them there;
I ask thee, who was come ?
T o thresh them then .could I begin?
I now do answer, No;
And from the thing I shall explain,
Call this unto thy view;
For none discern’d how there I warn’d—
The paper go between.
Now I’ll explain what this doth mean,
The shadow of the first; 1
But from the mper now discern
How here the end must burst. 7
That simple thing should I e’er nam'd
If it had ended there,
To have the paper go between,
. To have the words appear
Where thou didst read ? be not misled^
I’d other things in view,
To have the paper go between,
Apd now I’ll prove it true. -
& %
Digitized by Google
The words of men pn paper came . '
To shewwhat rust is here,
What canker in them doth abound
The way they how appear, ,
So now must com? thy paper strong,
I say, to go between#
, And let my reapers follow on, . -
I’ll prove the corn is green,
With every rust fill’d up their breasts, •
Their canker’d hearts are strong—
But here’s no time for man tojest| *
For down the corn must come; ,
And so ’twill lie, I now do say, ‘
To harden on the ground; *
And they will find there is a day
W herein they must bebound;
To shew the wheat is but deceit
• My judgments will come on,
And then such corn will soon be known
Tis all to shrivels come; •
, My threshers here may then appear, - ‘
And make the wheat to fly *
Out of the husk that doth appear
Where canker in it lies.
For now shall come my harvest strong,
A harvest great for all; - "
And let my reapers to go on.
The rust in men must fall:
' To Jet them grow, I well do know,
Your land would ruin’d be;
You’d find it stubble and the straw,
.But then no wheat you’d sec.
. As men do stand now in your land
The canker-worm is near; '
For Satan guides them heart and hand, < '
Then now let all see dear,
I must cut down in every sound,
. As I did say before;
" For now my reapers may l>e found-^- .
The mysteries I shaTl dear:
I spoke at first what now doth burst; ,
But then it could not be;
Though men were gathering by the rust,
As it is known to thee; . ' :'
But then I d nohe to cut them down,
No reapers to appear;
What threshers then'would there begin
To make the mystery clear? >
N o: 'twas not then that I did mean, * '
As I have said before; .
$ut now the prophecy see plain,
The way I have order’d here.
J have order’d all that hears this call ,
1 Like reapers to go pn, ,
76 COMMUNICATION, AUGUST 1797, EXPLAINS*.
Digitized by Google
Till down thefust, 1 say, shall fall,
And be cut down by man.
i What I do mean I’ll now explain:
Like Wooliand I’ll appear
To give my word as I hav.e said,
Order my reapers here
Togo between—the paper’s"seen:
And go from man to man,
* Till theyshall know, like wheat that’sgreen,
My words shall cut them down.
So now frdtn Wooliand you discern—
He did not cut his corn,
But order’d then that by his men
They should this thing perform;
So by his men the thing was done,
The same, I say, by mine;
For as the orders from him came, '
I’ll answer to mankind,
That like the grain mankind are seen,
Full of the rust to be;.
My order is to cut them down;
Their wisdom, let them see,
fan never grow, I’ve told thee so,
Isayi to perfect wheat;
If on this way they mean to go
The rust will eat them out
But I’ll cut down in every sound,
I tell thee, now by man;
As Woolland’s reapers they were found,
I bid you all go on;
Then men will see the mystery,
When all things do appear;
They are cut dowh unto the ground,
Their wisdom cannot clear
For to go on as they began—
“ We see their wisdom lie;
“ *Tis all cut down upon the ground, ,
“ Then here the wheat may fly,
When harden’d here it doth appear*
“ Surrounded now by all:
“ We see, ourselves we cannot clear,
“ OiR wisdom it must fall;
And compass’d found by every sound,
“ Will none support our hand >
“ Our friends to say we are cut down,
“ And have no power to stand; '
“ Because the rust was in our breast,
“ And so doth now appear:
' ’ V We see what folly we possess’d,
“ And how w'e all did err.”
So harden’d men they may begin,
” .* I tell thee, for to rfy,
*pae way or other to contend,
, * • Then bring my thresher* nigh} •
PF CXITyU}G $$$$£.CORN WI^H RUST. 77
Digitized by Google
That is my word, that's on record,
Let them point out to man,
The visitation of the Lord
That unto thee is come.
So all together let them weigh,
And this they must discern,
What I from Woolland’s wheat did say,
And how ’tis all come round;
Then they must see a mystery,
That judge it came from hell;
Such wisdom in him can there be,
Against himself to swell ?
What wisdom here can any clear
To place the lines to he?
If from thy head they say’t proceeds,
I ask how’t should agree ?
Can man bring round m any souBd
' Such shadows at the first,
And then let rolling years roll on
To make the substance burst?
The likeness here you njay see clefu*, '
The way I’m cutting down,
And as the paper stood between
The woros of men are found* x
So HI end here and say no more;
But this I bid thee mark,
The thing I order d here before.
Thy knowledge here was dark*
Never to see $twas spoke by me,
This way I should go on,
Before by all I’d order’d thee,
The reapers so must comew
Another day I shall appear
To answer thee again;
The words of men you so do hear^
And this they do contend,
%As 1 before did tell thee ber6.
So let the words be penn’d,
And all together you compare,
1 Then all may stand like men.”
Here ends the Explanation, given Sunday, February
10, 1805.
7® 'COMMUNICATION GIVEN IN MAT, I7gy,
I am ordered to pen the following communication,
given M ay 4, 1 797, in answer to the feelings of my
heart; as my friends said I was spending m y time
for nought, and their words had put me to the
heart. I thought to myself I might say with Job,
Digitized by Google
T Y P E « P JO B ’ S FR IEN D S A PP LIED TO JOANNA. 7 0
’ 4
miserable comforters^are ye all ! where are sorrows
likeuijto m y sorrows ! my heart i$ bowed' down for
very heaviness ! ;andl may say with Job, Oh, that
1 could ,bow myself before the Most H igh! Is
knowledge concealed from the Almighty ? are my
ways hid from him ? ,
; THE ANSWER OF THE SPIRIT,
Now £top thy harid, ihd say no more
■t Knowledge most be conceal’d;
( And let thy friends like Job’s appear,
Shew thou what Tve reveal’d,
And ask them then to stand like men
To prove my knowledge clear,
For to permit a Woman’s liapd ■
To pen what thou hast hepe.
It will agree, they all will see*
Though all is not fulfill’d
But deep they’ll see is the mystery;
It is beyond their skill$ t, . , ^ ,
The head of thine must their’s outshine,
If it came from thy head, *
And things must be conceal’d from, mje
T o let thee thus procepd. ,
For blasphemy must surely be.
If I did not command,
(To say thatye all bastards be; 1 „ ..; ;
And let them judge.tiiy hand,
If thou art here an impostor, •
And made me but a man;
For this thou’st peun’d, and see the end.
How every, thing will come; '
For grief to thee is come thou’st seer
* So did to Job at first, • . . <
Before it came unto^his friends,
And so the end will burst.” ., ;
Here ended May A, 179 7; ’ ,■
, May 5, J797*
M y heart was troubled the same. I said, to com­
plain is useless. Oh, that .I could conceal my sor­
rows to myself! will'the Lord undertake my cause
fprme? all blame me; none pity m e; but say, I
ought not to meditate whether there is knowledge in
the Jjord; or whether there is a possibility of know-
Digitized by Google
/
80 coMMtmiCATiojf Giviw inMAit;
ledge in ourselves. This.was a thing that distressed
my mind and soul, as sortie seemed to* spe^k as
though our own spirits communed with the bodyi
The reason for this complaining was, I had the world
tormenting me on the one hand, of the cfaijgefs'I was
running into, by continuing my prophecies; on the
other hand, the fatal judgments threatened me by the
Spirit, if I did not continue. This brought my
mind into a perplexed state that no man can be a
judge of. T o the arguments of my friends I was
answered in the following manner s
V Is this the folly of thy friends *
Then uow IH1 answer here:
Let them not marvel in the end
That I have spoken here.
A heart I've said that's cold and dead
Is never worth mv thought;
But now like Peter lie tliou led,
The Key to thee is brought; *
For as thy pondering heartgoes deep ,
I’ll surely let thee know;
Mv guardian angels do hot sleep, *
There’s nothing yon can do
That is conceal’d and not reveal’ d,
My eve is every where; ,
All thou hast spoke, and what thou’.vt wtote
Before m e do appear; r
Aiid as mv Bible all was penn’d 1
Thy writings are the same;
The types, the visions, and thy dreams*'*1
They from one Spirit came.
And this tlum sayest thou'dost believe, ' 1
Then sure thou mayest complain,
That if the Bible do deceive
Thou’lt be so in the end.
' So now thou’rt brought unto the(stake,
1 ask what they will do ?
Will they now say, “ may bow or break,**
As lioin it they would go?
F say your land no more can stand, . ’
If thou should'st disobey,
Than Adam did in Paradise,
When Kve did him betray,
yow will the Gentiles, like the Jews,
With lukewarm spirits cry?
v “ We care not if thou dost refuse,
<r In ruin we will lie;
««If that our land it cannot stand,
HIf thou should’st disobey,
Digitized by Google
ARGUMENTS CONCBRNINOiTHE SECOND eve. 81
** We’ll ne’er believe another Eve
“ Cani>ring it back this way. *
“ Since guilt is come to every man,
*$Then every man must fall;
4
4But still we trust there is(a Christ
4
4That died to rescue all.”-*-
p I died for man, it must beknown,*
But dotlrit yet appear
That true salvation can be shewn ?
Bring Jews and Gentiles near,
And will they say Salvation’s free;
> “ For this we all believe,
*• It was for us he bore the curse;
« We do not want an Eve
" For toappear her guilt to clear;
4
4Our guilt is done away;
4
4And Satan still inay use his skill,
■ ' \ » 4
4He can no more betray.
4
4The woman first brought on the curse
u By Satan’s artful hand;
* Shall we believe it in the last ^
4
4That Christ in her will stand
4
4To bring her near, the guilt to cleatv
4
4TVstand as she did fell?
4
4If true obedience be in.her
, 4
4He’ll turn the guilt from all ?
4
4Is this the wisdoni Ofa God,
4
4This way to change the tide ?
4
4To man such things were never know'd—•
The Bridegroom, not the Bride;
*i In all our Bibles, we allow,
, « The Bridegroom is foretold, •
' 4
4But we ask where the Bride is here ?' ' '
*<Shall we this doctrine hold
’ I’H tell you where it ?d6th appear;
. Let learned men dispute,
Ahd when their arguments appear
[ Xl\ surely make them mute.
From Adam’s Fall, be it known to all,
The Promise is'foretold;
* It was to Evet let them/believe, \ ;
- The mysteries I’ll unfold
When they their reasons have assign’d,
* That this can never be ;
Jfyly wispom always stands behind,
, And that you all shall see. '
~For blessed is the barren womb . .
That never yet gave suck/
Because the time is hastening on
They’ll find in her there’s milk;
For mdk ’twill be, they all shall see,
Although the breasts seem dry;
For as 1 made the water wine
I’ll bring it so this way.” —
Digitized by Google
The explanation, to the above, given Monday, Feb.
1 1 , 18 0 5 .
“ Now, Joanna, I shall answer thee. In the
communication that is now copied off the perfect
language of mankind was foretold : before any of the
words had been spoken by them I told thee what
would be the language of their hearts ; and though
they have not spoken it in the same words, yet they
have spoken it in the sense of the words ; and thus I
knew Satan would fill up their hearts againft thee, as
he filled up the Jews against me : for the Jews never
believed in my coming as a Bridegroom ; or that I
must come as the Captain of your Salvation, that
ventureth his life in the field of battle to save his
country. This was never believed by the Jews ;
then how can they say that all men are redeemed by
my. Death, when it is written that no man has any
part in my Death but those that believe ? Then what
part have the Jews in my Death, or Resurrection,
while they stand out in unbelief? Then how can'
they -ay that redemption is come to all men, when
all men do not believe ? Now let them come close
to my Bible : as in Adam all died, even so in Christ
shall all be made alive : then let them look deep to
the Jews, of whom it is written, you only have I
known of all the families on the earth ; and to whom
*11 the promises were made ; and yet you see them
through unbelief an outcaft nation ; for of every na­
tion, tongue,, and people, they have a nation to
themselves; but the Jews, and the Jews alone, are.
the only people that stand a proverb for their unbe­
lief. Then how can men so vainly boast of their own
knowledge, when they see what the knowledge of
man hath brought them to ? The Jews trusted to
their own wisdom, and their own understanding of
the Scriptures; and by their own understanding they
brought on their own destruction; then how can the
Gentiles look upon the Jews and see.what their un^
32 COMMUNICATION IN MAY, 1797, EXPLAINED.
Digitized by G o o g l e
derstanding hath brought them to, and now split
upon, the same rock, to place the Scriptures to their
own wisdom and .understanding, as the Jews did to
theirs ? Then I ; .tell thee they must both, fall to­
gether. And now I shall come to the purpose with
thee. Dost thou wish thou hadst ever listened to thy.
friends, that did persuade tfiee to give up tby writ­
ings ? Answer for thyself,”
N o : I would not for ten thousand worlds, as J am
clearly .convinced if I had listened to my friends, I
shpuld have been wretched jn time and to all eter­
nity.; but no\y I see the promises of God fulfilled to
m e; as,the perfect life I now live was foretold me in
1795 : and the manner of my friends I am now sur­
rounded wjth. Instead of possessing this happiness
that I now enjoy, and the happy conscience I now
feel in looking forward to the end, had I listened to
m y friends, I should now have been wretched and
miserable.above all women that ever were born ; but
•I cannot ascribe this persevering faith to my own
. power,.or my own wisdom ; No : I bless the God o f
m y salvation, that kept me by his Power, directed
me by his Wisdom, counselled me by his Spirit,
and made his angels as guards around me, to keep,
me from the power of men and devils. So to the
Lord I ascribe all the honour, all the power, and
bless him, fronv my inmost soul, for his mercies and
goodness towards me.
“ Now, Joanna, I shall answer thee. The per­
fect life thou now livest is known to thy friends, as.
well as thee; it was foretold thee in 1795 ; and let
it be observed by all men in what manner I have or­
dered thy! writings to be scaled up and marked, to
put it out of the power of all men to say thou could-
est write it after it was fulfilled; and let it be observed
how I forbade thee to write any thing but thy name,
before these writings were given into thy hands; apd
Jet it be further observed, that my handmaids .arp
daily with thee to put it out of thy power to deceive
. L a
THE WAY JOANNA WA« LED ON TO THIS TIME. 83
Digitized by Google
if thou wast an impostor, as the world hath made
thee. And now let reason take possession of men’s
hearts further: can they suppose Tow ®ley would
impose upon herself to do as she is doing,: to act as
she is acting, if she saw deceit in thee? Reason must
tell all men, N o ; then let them weigh the whole
together, and see if this wisdom, this knowledge,
and this powef, can be placed to the devil, by a man
o f wisdom ; I tell thee. N o : many that have judged
of thy, writings have judged of things they know
nothing about; asTownley and Sharp did of the
corn, because they were no judges concerning the
corn; therefore I ordered them topass their judg­
ment, to shew how wrong men draw their judgment
in things they know nothing about; forjust as wrong
dp men draw their judgment on thy writings, a$
they did from the com. But thou sayest in thy
heart, men draw their judgment from the Bible %
and
so did the Jew s; but did the Jews draw their judg­
ment right ? thou must answer, No, if the Gospel
be true; then I answer, perfectly as wrong as the
Jews drew theirjudgment from the Law and the Pro­
phets, full as wrong do men now draw their judg­
ment from the Gospel and my Disciples? and full
as wrong as Townley and Sharp drew their judg­
ment of the corn, full as wrong do.men draw their
judgment pf thy writings. But as thou, with others,
drew your judgments right of the corn, so have
many drawn their judgments right of thy writings ;
yet neither of you looked into the depth of the corn,
nor what the communication meant through; and
just the same men are by thy writings; for they
have not looked into the depth, the manner they are
• §poken, and the way I am fulfilling them. N ow I shall
answer thep of thyself: thou, saidst thou wouldest
.not listen to thy friends for ten thousand worlds to
have drawn back; and I now tell thee ten million
Worlds would have been but misery to thee, if thou
h^dst drawn back; for thy life would' have been
84 COMMUNICATION IN MAY, 1797j SX^UAINED.
Digitized by Google
* T T#*aCOKD,& POW*A ttNLY CAN WE SPAN®. 85
miserable, and' thy end without honour ; and how
(COuWesbthou-1have1appeared before m e , when I .had
called thy l¥dtd thy remembrance, how I had pro­
tected <theej and how I had directed thee, from the
time- of thy mother’s death, before my visitation
come $oWrongly to direct thee as to the nation as well
as thyself,-'and'every truth would have been called
to thy remembrance ? then how couldest thou ap­
pear i In thy heart thou answerest, now ay; but a
miserable lost woman. This I know must have been*
thy case rb u t this, I tell thee, it could not be possi­
ble -for thee to fall so, because I called thee by my
power, and in thy weakness was thy strength : and
now I tell you, in all your weakness I am your
strength-^-for1thou couldest never have stood in tlie
dangers and difficulties, I have led thee through, and
the trialsaftd temptations of men and devils, if 1 had
hot kept thee in on every side., And now the same I
say tball thy believers, though they have more to
strengthen them than thou hadst in the beginning,
because they have seen fulfilled what thou was wait­
in g to sefe’t yet there are so many things to come to
fulfil thy prophecies int this land, and they have
drawn their judgments like thee, taking the shadows
to be the substance, expecting every thing must be
fulfilled as soon as it is spoken, by the judgment
they have formed. Thus they'are foiling themselves
on the one hand, and the mockery of the world is on
the other, that I now tell thee, without* my protec­
tion to keep them, they could not stand any more
than thee; and thoucorifesscst thou couldest not stand
alone, before thou hadst seen the truth come on, if I
had not been thy keeper; and so Isa y la m the
keeper of ail that stand by faith; and that faith must
come by hearing. And now I tell thee why so many
fall off : because their faith is taught by the pre-
foepts of men; they ask the wisdom of men, and to
their wisdom they trust; then what have I to do
yvith them i He that tfusteth in man, let him see
- Digitized by Google
if man mil deliver him ; but he that truateth in mb
shall be as Mount Zion that cannot be-moved. Now ,
I tell thee, no man can trust in m b that will trust to
his own wisdom'in a cause like this,'thinking he
knows the Scriptures better than I have explained
them to thee: this is man’s trusting in raanvand mak­
ing flesh his stay; but he thattrusteth in. the Lord
will be afraid of his own wisdom in judging.the Bible,
fearing he may draw his judgment wrong, as the
Jews did ; therefore, in a cause like this he will read
. for himself, he will judge for himself, he- will have
salt in himself, and weigh the whole together ; then
he will know it is impossible such wisdom and such
working, such knowledge and such troth, could
come from any but the God of Truth. Now what
spirit could ,tell thee in J 7Q5 the very thing
that thou didst do in 1803 i and who could tell
thee in 179 5 die perfect manner thou now livest?
For it is not telling of a thing proves it- is of God,
but the fulfilment thereof; and the perfect fulfil­
ment is now come to thee of the things tbpu hast
done, and the life thou dost now live; for thy will
as well as thy word fulfils the one, and the
life thou now livest fulfils the other; and this will
continue to thy journey’s end. Now mark the sha­
dow of what I said in Woolland’s, house, in M ay
1 797, when I had ordered theenot togo.outto work,
neither be as a servant to Woolland, which brought
the distress upon thy mind, thinking what thou wast
to do, as I said thou shouldest call no man master;
for I alone would be thy master; and yet thou
knowest at the same time, I permitted thee to take
work home ; and when Woolland offered tbee pre­
sents, to take them, but refused receiving as wages :
and know I said 1 would clear the mysteries in the
en d *.”
V
* The reader will understand this port better by referring b^ck td
page71. t , .
86 COMMUNICATION IN MAT, 1797) BXM.A1NBD.
Digitized by v ^ r O O Q i e
t y p e s op Jo a n n a ’s p r e s e n t fr ie nd s. 87
T h e following are the lines which were written in
1797 : - • - /
’ 11 A servant thou art none,
, \ For wages be shall never pay#
Nor ^one shalt thou receive;
Thy time I’ll call another way,
/Too long 1 know thou hast griev’d. -
No master here thy debts shall clear,
' ’ For I will thee employ;
• 1 * And where’s the man snail pay the bOftd,
, , ; That will not me enjpv ? • i
Whoe’er demands thee from my hand,
' I bid thee them refuse; . "
• My handmaid thou shaltever stand;
Though others I do chuse
Thy fetlow-labourers in the Lord,
, 1 •They are my handmaids all; -
, And they shall find with one accord s'
My Spirit there shall fall.”
<( Now I-shall answer'thee of this communication,
which is perfectly true like the others; but how
could I place the types, and shadows to the .sub­
stance, as- I have "placed all thy writings ? There­
fore I placed the type in Woolland’s house, as
W oolland ' and Minifie were the first friends thou,
knewest, and thy old acquaintance from children,
before thou hadst any knowledge of Taylor, or any
other believers ; -therefore in her house I placed the
type, but was the substance fulfilled there ? Thou
must answer, No : but though thou didst never call
Woolland blaster, neither did he look upon himself
as thy master; yet thou lahouredst in his house,
and wast fed at his table, after I had forbidden thee
to work for any that were unbelievers ; but know I
set that as a type : to try the clergy was .all I made
known to thee at that time; for had I told thee
what would follow that type, it would but have
filled thee with unbelief. Now, though Woolland
madp thee presents, because I had refused its being
paid as wages; yet I tell thee, I ordered all that
type *for,such a time as this; for you cannot say
that Woolland, or Minifie, were ever my hand-
Digitized by Google
maids, as fellow-labourers with thee in the Lord ;
but know whjfct followeth t they refused to’ send a
letter for thy sake; then what fellow-labourers were
they with thee ? and yet they were shadows, b y
Woolland’s giving thee presents, when I ordered
thee to take no wages. But dost thou think I should
have placed this simple shadow, so perfectly like the
substanjjfti now,.if this had not been ip my view ?
Now mark the. words deep: I said, I called thee
another w ay; for no master there should pay thy
debt, and no man should pay thy bonds, that would
not enjoy m e . N ow I ask th?e, who is thy master ?
Thou sayest, thou hast no master but God. - N o w
I ask thee, who are thy bondsmen ? Thou answerest,
none but .believers. And now I ask thee, who de­
mands thee from my hand ? Thou answerest, the
unbelievers wish to demand thee to give up th y
hand ; but thy strength of faith now is too great for
any^pnan to accomplish this. Now I ask thee, who
are. thy fellow-labourers in the Lord, that- are as
handmaids with thee ? Thou answerest, Tow n-
ley and Underwood are fellow,labourers with thee,
and ending tire work that thou hast begun. N ow
mark Che words, that were’said— others I do ckuse,'
and there my Spirit shall fall; but I did not say, they
were.chosen then. If so the words would haye
been, others I have chosen, and here my Spirit
fallen, if it was a thing accomplished; but I said,
others I do chuse, and there my Spirit shall fall.
Now mark the next word that follows— Woolland
here; but it is not said there; then this must shew
you all, -the substance was not meant in Woolland’s
house; but the type.and shadow placed to shew thee
plain what was 1o come. And now thou seest the
truth perfectly fulfilled: I.have called thee from
them another way as I said ; and thy bondsmen are
. the believers ; and those that wish to take thee from,
my hand are the opposers; and my handmaids are
joined with thee ; and the shadow of Woolland is
88 COMMUNICATION IN MAT, 1797, NXUSAINED.
Digitized by Google.
the substance irt TbWftteyl
,;''"Abd noyf.ihark Town-
ley’s words: at that time -she was, judged dying;
then who but -a God prolonged her*.life, and pre­
served her for such a time as this I and who but a
God could set such a type to thee at that?-time, and
now have it petfectlyfulftlled ? Now'from the man­
ner of thy life let believers see in what master things
were foretold to ithee, arid in what mantterWtey were
brought round to be fulfilled; then they .may see in
what manner their; happy deliverance will come.
A few believers did not work any change for thee,
till there catae in strong and powerful believers; then
came the change to thee'jattd I now’tell' thee, per­
fectly so it will be to all v when judgments have cut
down the mockers o n th ‘fe brie hahd, arid faith ,in
abundance increase on,; the, other, they .will see as
great a change for their peace,and happiness in every
situation, as thou seest now1 the communication is
copying off, from what thou >sawest and; felt when
thou didst write it.”
»iX*htriOSOJHBRS Eff&GING XORT&EXSVRB. 89
The following communication, given M ay, 1 797>
in answer to men’s sayihgl wasa good mistaken wo­
m an; and tne explanation of the six philosophers,
that went otit for a day’s pleasure, arid walking
through a wood came to a tomb-stone,' that was
written on in Hebrew, Greek, and Latin, *f He that
findeth the end of my shadow will find great riches.”
T h ey digged round the tofflb-stone and ‘found no­
thing ; so they Went away and left it, thinking they
were mocked; but after they were gone .some way,
one of the pfrilosophers, more wise than the rest,
made an excuse to go- home, but thought to him­
self he would go back and see the end of the sha­
dow at the turn o f the d a y ; ,and when 'if ’came to
the turn of the day, he began to dig at the end of
the shadow, and found irnmense riches that the old
philosopher had hid there.— It begins in answer to
men’s words—
M
Digitized by Google
r ' * J* Now who can make thy head $o weak, f .
r , AVI)ilc’I within thee always speak ? ’ .
f And bring the Bible to thy view: • '
- : :,f: W.i}I men believe their lies are true;? ‘ ^ .
^ -t ; 'Good and mistaken cannot be,
* ' 11 In tbrrngs so deep as pemid by thee.
‘ . : •jB\it here the prudent men are come “
^ / ^Tojudge of what they’ve never seen* . . ,
" : And like the wise men are deceiv’d. 7 '
* * 1 How ignorant now dfe men believe l ' *
/ Then where shall knowledge be applied I
" Tis in the meek I must confide;
And those are weaned from the breast -
, ’ , Do for the perfect knowledge thirst, .
Who little in themselves appear:
1 When Saul was so i chose him there ‘
To be a king over the land;
And now the meek shall ever stand; . .
But those that to their wisdom trust
Shall all be foiled in the last} * *
But he that's wise will spredig deep; t
His wisdom guards him, though asleep5
For if tl>e perfect truth he'll know
He must dig deep tofind it true; * ; *
He knows not what is bufied there; ,
This was the wise philosopher, ‘ " *
While the self-wise did lose the whole, . * *
And in the end become a fool; ;
And in the end you’ll find it so:’
The wise philosopher did go
. To wait the turning of the day, - r
And mark the shadow came that way
Where hidden treasures they were htd^ '
, The wise philosopher did dig • ■ ^■ * •
And found the substance all was there$
He got the whole by prudent care. ,
So from this type let men be wise;
No more than him do I disguise; ■ , *
My hidden treasures are conceal’d,
i And to the wise’twill be reveal’d; .
Because the pearl now I’ll clear,
‘ And in their hands it must appear;
Because'tis given unto thee, *
The wise philosophers they'll sec ■ “
More wise than the sons o? men •
gO A COMMUNICATION.^ YEN IN MAYy 17Q7*
* This communication is given only in’part
Digitized by Google
THE CRINKLED CORN, ANb SNOHu
TON THE HAY. <)1
Taken out ofthe Sealed Writings, written in 1/ 95.
I dreamt I was in £ corn' field ; some of the corn
was crinkled down to the ground, and some stood
fair, b u t the greatest part was crinkled down. I
said w e should stand as fair as the .corn, when others
were bowed down. I thought Mrs. Woolland
wanted me to get something upon the trees, but I
said th ey must help me u p ; I daought they did
part o f the way, and I got into one of the branches,
and could not get out. ', Mrs. Wooilanehthe same
night dreamt of the like entanglement in the corn,
and o f snow being upon the hay.
THE ANSWER OF THE SPIRIf.
** Now HI begin to answer here: *
Upon the groundthe hay did then appear j •
Apples and blossomboth together were,
Tne screen leaves shewing and the fruit appear.
This is a mystery thou dost not understand : *
Such is the mixture will be in your laud;
For as the weather did to thee appear,
Just sothe.hearts of men they certain are.
But now unto the purpose-thou art conic,
T he grass cut down, it must to all be known:
Man's life as grass it atirely is compar'd-^
It was cut down, but yet no sun to cheer#
Because tl*e snow did surelycover all i
Deep is the mystery i to thee do tell;
Think on the words that she to thee d5d say*—
Thou'knowest thesnow did cover all the hay.
Now should my weather liketheir beiarts appear,
The husbandman would soon lose all his share.
Tbisds the reason l to tliee did say
Defer thy writings till another day;
For I’ll go on the whole for to explain :
I know the hearts and simple tlioughts of men,
And that my Bible they cannot explain;
* A hidden mystery it is sure from man;
But to the purpose 1 shall surely come.
Nature convulsed when first Jehovah sj>oke»
The bush on fire a«d Sinai hid in smoke
For so,-l say, the bush did then appear
To be on fire when God .did then come near* ;,
And Moses'shoes were order’d to be put oil’
When he before (lie Loj cl did then ap p ^ ck •
*This is a mystery thou wist not unoerstaud^ , .
To leaytf liis shoes it was the Lord’s Conaniud',
M 2
Digitized by Google
Because thou knowest it was to put them off-*
If thou hast wisdom I have said enough ;
For on the shoes you know you all dostapd,, - t
To guard your feet throughout this thorny land;
Bu^when the ground it holy did appear*
To put them on—the mystery now is clear;
And so the mystery I’ll make clear to thee: '
7 The shpes of man, tboi; kpowest, do guard hipi on—
And so their wisdom and their faith the samej
But now I’ll H I from whence their errors came;
.Aspire to knowledgeman did first begin ; ,
It was forbid to all the $ons of men;.
But the forbidden fruit man sure did eat— 1
I tell thee, here the mystery lieth deep; ^ '
For what they aim'd at they could ne'er obtain^
Nor by their wisdom e’erfind out my mind.
' Ah ! could men think that I would stoop soloffv
My perfect,wisdom unto man to shew,
When that upon me he did cast the blamel v
Then now be wise, O all ye sons of men*
And little in your eyes I say become*
And humbly own yourselves to bebut mem
For now to reason I will here begin:
There is no knowledge in the sons of men ;
Then own your folly, and I’U set you free;
The time of ignorance is wink'd at by m e ;
But by men's wisdom they are surely lost,
* And of their wisdom nothing have to boast;
Therefore their cause I'll surely undertake,
iAnd in my anger break the Serpent's neck.
He said as gods that men should surely come,
And good from evil they should soon discern ;.
But by their folly now I plainly see
In simple ignorance men appear to be;
And now their wisdom 1 no more will blamfe
If men will own it, and will humblycome,
.That of their wisdom they can never boast.
But in the Lord alone is all their trust
But now, J say, I'll answer first the Je w *;
FJe said as one they should be, he did know ;
But in yhat manner he no more doth know
Than Adam did, when 1 the truth did $hew,
' That in the Woman I’d bruise Satan’s head,,
* He says the time is certain past and fled; ,
And by professors-they can never see
That Christ in them can ever formed be ; *
And that confession is throughout your land; .
But for my Gospel none do understand,
That peace on earth 1 did not come to send, .
But ’twas a sword to all the sons of men;
g i A COMMUNICATION GIVEN IN- 179$« - -
* Ezekiel the Jew said, that the Gentiles and the Jews would soon
be of one mind ; the Jews had been looking for the comihg ofChrist
'200years; but now the time was past, they hgd given it yp ; $6 to
the Bible, they did not ynderstand % .
r 5 r
Digitized by Google
And now 'tis kiudled, all may plainly sec. ■
But now comes on the other mystery:
For a Baptism 1 have to go,through ;
Yet I am straiten’d by the stubborn Jews,
As in thy dream it did to thee appear :
The branches did suppress thy going there ;
And Woolland she cua surely find the same.
As in her dream the mysteries then did come.
But now if England own thy writings true,
And in one spirit do together go,
Then all the corn, I say, it will stand fair;
It cannot fall if you will now take care; ' '
But the self-confident shall tumble dowm—
Thou know’st the stalks "were crinkl’d to the ground. v
Then now to reason I will soon begin,
From •**•* words I will it more explain:
He said my Bible was a simple thing,
And by their wisdom cannot it explain ;
So now I say that man shall give it up,
And toexplain it I shall surely stoop.
I said the meek inherit should the earth,
Because as children, now the Scripture saitli,
I said as little children you must come,
If in my Kiugdom I’d receive you home;
And now like little children you may be, . %
And then the bondmen I shall set them free. •
Now as a judge to reason I’ll begin:
He hears th6 cause, and to the jury comes
. And lays it opeii then before their view— ' : ,
They all are sworn togive theirjudgment true *
But if they in onejudgment don’t agree,
* He locks them up, and will not set them free
Until they are come to be of one mind,
Then to the jury doth the cause resign.
I said the Saints should surely judge the earth,
Now i’ll confirm it, as the Scripture saith
AU menas prisoners they are now fast bound ; {
Condemn’d by Satan are the nations round.
But as ajudge I wish to set them free,
And seal thejury, that was seal’d by thee,
And by the twelve men they must give it up.
So low to man my wisdom now shall stoop.
Then all my Bible 1 will soon explain,
\Vhat is a mystery to the sons of men ;
For ’tis their folly that must set them free— ’
Thou knowest a fool is ne’er condemn’d to die 5
So now men’s wisdom let them put it off
Trust in the Lord to be their rod and staflj
And then man’s cause l’llsurely undertake,
And a fresh covenant with man I’ll make—
My yoke is easy and my burden’s light,
So it will prove when all’s brought to your.sights
Now with the Jews to reason I’ll begin :
1 ask them how ifiy Bible they’ll explain ? .
TYPE OP THE CRIKTSXED COEN APPLIED.
Digitized by Google
A COMMOKlCATIONfelVEir IK 1797.
Or how my coming will it yet appear ?
The time draws nigh of the six thousandyean,
1 said I'd lead them as they did not know,
And wash their sins whiter than any snow*
So tyow together I do bid them corner
Bring forth your arguments, ye sons of men ;
You say my Bible yon don't understand,
Then by my jury I will set all free, »
That simply come and put their trustin m e.—
But back to Jehu now l bid you go—
••What peace,” said Jehu, “ can there wowappear
m While Jezebel thy mother's witchcrafts areV*
So many as he saw them in the land.
This is a mystery none do understand ;
But from the past it must be known to thee,
The powers of darkness do with someagree :
They were the words thy Master he did say,
Ye are the servants whom ye do obey ;
And as my Spirit doth commune with thee,
Just so the devil doth commune with they ;
And as he bids them certainly they do ;
I say, his spirit doth before them go,
And in all shapes he makes them to appear,
To put him by it is by faith m prayer.
But that I'll answer tnee another d a y -
ill cast out none that do enquire the way.”
The following was given to me in 1797» in an­
swer to a letter I sent to M r. Pomeroy, to which
Charles Taylor forgot to put the date, \vhich was
explained from the letter and the coachman driving
me homo furiously:
* Now, Joanna, thee I’ll answer:
Like the driver all will be ;
As they here so long have linger’d,
Furious will their driving he ;
v As the coachman he did shake thee
As he furiously did drive,
So, Isay, they will awake thee,
' And thy jarring passions raise.
Long impatient thou didst wait,
But when the coach did come,
Thou know’st, his driving it was great.
And quickly brought thee home.
Not like the other did he stay ;
He knew his time was come,
\ And though he jarr’d tbeena the way,
He safely brought thee home. *
And now, I say, it so will be,
~ / Though Pomeroy tarries long,* >
But when he knows the time i* up
He’ll do as he hath done;
Digitized by
BIEJfB t o r Iff THE BIBLE FOB TYPES.
For like the driver liewill be,
And prove so in She end.
T is all * simple tale that's here,
_ But deep what thou hast penn’d.”
The following communication was given, March
1 1 , 1 7 9 6 . As I was in prayer I was ordered to put
three pens in the Bible; and found the first in
Acts 25; the second in Isaiah 54 ; the third in
Psalm 105— “ Make known his deeds among the
people.”
t h e a n s w e r o f t h e spirit.
•• Now these chapters first Fll answer, -
With thy letter* next begin:
Tbv accusers come together—
Tell me why thou art net mine ?
’Tis by thy works they mustcondemn thee^
If thou’rt not worthyof the Bride $
If they cannot prove thee guilty,
Here the field is Openwide.
They say thou’rt poor: I want no store,
For all the earth is mine; *
I came a beggar heretofore*
And shall I now resign,
To choose one higherin my room ?
The servent eannot be
No greater than his Lord before,
And thereforeJ chose thee.
Now like the Psalm I shall begin 2.
My Name mult fiy abroad,
And let theHeathed Nations hear
The sentence of the Lord;
If England now will me obey,
This land I’ll surely bless,
And they shall gain the victoiy,
For every land I’ll crush.
Now with thy letter next begin.
That thou must Send to Moore $
For in thy writing* thoi* hast nam’d
What he did speak before :
Account for preaching he must give,*,,
And they for hearing too * . ,
The souls of many he shall save 1
If he my Will will do. j .<
My words before him they must come* <
And let himjudgethem deep: -
For now my time is full at hand;
If England nowdoth sleep, . v , J i T
Out of tneir dream they must awake#
If they preserv’d will be j .... .x
Digitized by Google
& A COMMUNICATION' GIVEN IN FESftUAEV, 1790
y
-t / t>ht\
l ayt*-*.* j
j L . ? - ;■ / - }
My Rod and Siceptre both I’ll shake*.1
if men do ndt agree c ..............'
Great are my proniwet if they do, *
But threatening! are! severe;
And they shall find my words are true
; fetfore I’ve ended here.*
£o with thy letter now begin,
J
. Fojr all men I will*try';
iAfcd ifthey tothe parfiose^ome * l*f
, Key’ll stfrely find /is nieh;
Shock’d with surprize they’ll surely be;
As yon did theirbegin*- ~ ^
Another day 1 shall explain
The meaning of the thing,
And whv you were so much mistook***
4” Mistaken all will*be,
That say another intny room
Hath e’er directed thee ; '
Because the likeness won't agree » *
Let both together come*
| W p V M I V I
| Another day I’ll answer thee;
' Write out*how it was done+•’*
The following communication was given in Fe­
bruary, 1796.-—L was ordered to* put. my pen into
the Bible, and (ound it m 'Psalm 89.' ••
* MTo sing the praisesof Ac Lord *
“ My tongue shallnever spare?’— *
u In verse thou operist on record, \
And I will answer here r 1 ’
Judge for thj’self if tfioU can’s! Write '*
While I do silence keep; * *
It is thy faith I must keep up, *
As men are fast fcsleep; - ‘ *
, And to the test thy faith must come, *
For I shall press thee here: * * 1 .
Thou’st promis'd now for to obey $
*
It was thy every : ! w , '
Then to Ay prfcyerulnOwdohold thee,
As thou sayest 1 bid thee do;
Trust the PromiseI havetold thee,
And I’U bring it to thy view $ : "
Jehu first did gain'tbe1Battle
Ere he Jezebel threw down, '
I will first try all men’s mettle ' ' *; ' v .
Ere the end i’ll surely ctfowti ;• iJ „
What men are I now will try them11; '
All men’s wisdom)i will provfe s ’-'1
*“Joanna had met Mr. Cutley, \yTrofn shetook for Mr. Pomeroy
t This was a letter sent to Archdeacon Moore, printed in page 30
of the Fiist Book of Scaled Prophecies, ,
Digitized by Google
ABIB, A TYPB OP MEN’S BLINDNESS.
In the end I shall confound them,
If they now refuse my Love. ;
' Kow l bid thee write to Pomeroy,
; , Apd I'll.put hvp. to the test, -
Fpr the letter I’ll indite it,
! And I hid.thee write the verse
; That thou-hast got wrote already j [ ‘
.... Get it by some fairer hand, , , t , ,
^So that plainly he may read it, *
' See it hfe can understand;
v j ‘*37benhis wisdom I shall prove it,
A3 the lines, I say, are deep;
TFPr then's wisdom non’t discern it,
/ • What a Fast they now do keep.
*In it they're condemn’d already—
} ‘ Mark the Fast where it doth stand *;
Ifth^words at first should puzzle
I will soon direct thy hand.
They must come to deeper'knowledge,
If preserved they will be;
Thott art puzzled, £s Irtdd thee, '/
But therein is the mystery:
A b i b doth thee puzzle,
What it means thou dost not know ;
A b i b is a. mystery,
But the mystery I shall shew.
There thefast thou know’st thou found it,
But the name thou canst not tell;
"All mankind they arc so blinded,
,v Have no moreknowledge than-thyselfy
Though my Bible is plain before them,
But my Name they do not know}
Jah Jehovah is a mystery
That surpass all men below.
A, B, first begin your letters,
C and D do after come,
E, F, I say, do next confirm it,
Who's the dunce then, God or man*
If I'm God for to be worshipped.
Then my Spirit let them know;
*Tis in truth they must confess it,
For my Bible orders so.
Thep in truth come all bkfor^ me.
Shew your reasons why you fast
To avenge an ignorant nation,
That with sorrow’ is oppress’d.
Are their natures of less feeling
Than yourselves, I wish to know?
Did I make one and not the other l
I said all souls were mine below—
And to thy pens 1 bid thee go,
There thewords thou’ltfindthemplainer.
But as little understood."
* I had put the Book of the Fast in 'Deuteronom y xvi. 1.
the month called Abib U mentioned.
N
97
inwhich
Digitized by Google
The following communication was given in 1796
I dreamt I was going to some place and saw- a bolted
door; I thought a voice said to me, t( if the- door
opens there will be no famine this year j” Tthought
it opened and I went along till I came to strange,
places; I saw a child that took, me by the hand,
and did not care to let it go ; soon after T saw a boy,
and I said I was a pilgrim and a sojourner, and told of
what was coming on ’; but I thought the boy took
no notice of it. As I was coming back I saw M r.
Gidley and Mr. W ills ; I thought the apple trees
were in blossom, and some were come toapples and
stricken, as I tried them.
\
THE ANSWER OF THE SPIRIT,
u Here's the thing that thou didst dream;' v
Theiri hearts are bolted there;
But if unbolted men ghould come
No famine shall appear; *.
Because your nakedness I see, *
My an«;cr must be great, •
If I in .tfiis extremity
Should now deny you meat."
The child that took thee by the hand
Will unto thee appear;
The boy that careless heard thy word
Is unbelievers here ; \
The apples that w£re stuck so fast
Will all their fiuitnow bring.
And true believers at the last
, Will own thv God and King.
To Wills and6 idley thou art comef
These men thou knew’st before,
When no confusion in your land.
And now 1 hid them hear
The differentchange that hath took places.
England Til fill with dread:
v *And now reflect on what is past,
When Minifie was fled
Upon the seas, I did prepare
To make thy writings trup j
And on the seas l did ordain
To bring all to thy view.
I said alike the lot should fall,
For I would punish thei*e;
But now I say this is not ail,
So let them now take car^JL^
08 A COMMUNICATION GtVEW IN- 1-7Q& '
Digitized by'1
Their shipping tw illall destroy, * }
Ahd lorrows 1Key shall teel; ’ ’ 4
Wo pity shew,’ no pifyhSve ;
I said, like Woollands wheel,
That e
v
e
irythingsliouldk
bcom
eround-r v
But thouart inthedatk ; t
For all m
enVW
isd
omI’ll confound,
And bring the living spark.
So now I bid thee mark tne end,
And see how all cblneg robnd ;
For I will stand thy evefy friend,
And all menTil confound.” 1
•
The following; commuhicatioft.was given to Jo ­
anna, March 13, 1797, in answer to her hearing the
prayers to lower the pride of the French.
'ERAYeSIS’TO LO#feR T&B Elflb'E-OP $
Q
THE ANSWER OF THE SPIRIT.
“ Do not mock me with your prayers^
Mark the w
’ords that thou dost bear:
They do pray to humble .pride ;
; Where's the heart?from me is ‘hid ? 1
. K I answer now theif pfayers, <
England now must stand in fear;
• Where's the man can throw a stone ?
Shame most now ptop.every one ; . *
Alt accusers must begin %
For to blush at what theyVe done;
For though adulterers they be,
And condemn'd by you, I say ;
But I say, condem
nno'm
ore;
Where's the man can answer here,
That his heart from pride is flee ?
Let the stone be thrown by he.
But here Conscience must condemn 5
Tve now tried every one-;
Every heart is full of pride,
Therefore thou art so denied.
I thy cause this day did hear:
Taylor's eyes did itaiftf in fears,
Own’d they all had been unjust-*-
Hear the sentence that is cast •:
Every man by sin is bound ;
Justice must demand their gown.
Hast thou got an inward grief?
Do they all deny relief?
Then ofall 1 do demand, >
How before my bar they 11 stand ?
, * The clergy's preaching against Joanna, hut would not see her at
that time.
N 2
Digitized by Google
Bor themselves they must condemn^
Head the words, I say, to men,
How they dare for to blaspheme,
Trifling with my holy Name.
Hast thou not plainly told them here, *
Thou thy conscience canst not clear
Till thy writings they do see ? ..
Let them come and answer me,
If I cannot find a man ^
In my stead that now will stand.
Shall l bear the sword in vaiu ? *
Tremble, all ye sons of men t
Sick, I tell thee, I am come
Of the learned sons of men; »
Therefore 1 shall spue them up;
Wait and see the end will drop;
See how sickly they have been;
Tears may stop them in the end ;
Cold as death their feet will be;
For they have not followed me.
Another day I'll tell thee more,
But for the present end it here.”
The following communication was given in 1707*
from Psalm xvii. 1. where t opened to in my Bible
— “ Hear the right, O Lord, attend unto my cry,
give ear unto1 my prayer that goeth not out of
feigned lips. Let my sentence come forth from thy
presence ; let thine eyes behold .the things that ore
equal.”
400 COMMUNICATION IN 1797* ON PSALM XVlI. U
THE ANSWER OF THE SPIRIT.
4€ Now, Joanna, this Til answer; *
All thy thoughtsare known to ME:
Men shall knowI am thy Master,
Jah Jehovah, they shall see.
If thou hast spent thy time for nought,
And wasted all thy store,
To poverty thyselfthou’st brought
For to obey me here ;
And fasted long, as thou hast don6,
The days will equal mine*
The rising and the setting sun
Hath h»s appointed time,
The heavens i/i all their order stand, ’
The sea doth know his bounds ;
But when it rages upon the land
The shore cannot be found;
For who can go the shore to knowv
Or venture on the brink,
Digitized by Google
t y f e -o f Si'Ajis l ig h t in g t h e t r a v e l 4.e e . lo t
W hfin foaming billows "rage and foam? • t
The wave* would make them sink. ; r
So mark your land,, while silent stand,
Forif my botmtk should burst,
No footing you can then command, ;
As l have said at first; f .
And from the rtight l’ll bring to light—
Let dreafy nightappear, -
And every star be darken’d up* ■• . :
And no moon light appear,
And you ajourney have to go,
I say, in paths unknown, * *
I ask what you would mean to do
To bring you to your home ? *
How would you go ? I ask to know.
Suppose thejourney long, i
And not set out before’tis night,
task, where you would come ? r
Would ye not stray out of the way,
And stumble in the dark ?
In crooked paths shall man direct ?
You’d surelymiss the mark.
So it is here, it will appear,
The night is hastening on,
And crooked paths are now before,
Then let the stars to shine,
. For to give fight and guide the nighk
That men may find their way;
For crooked paths they must go through
Before ’tis perfect day ; , '
And if the stars refuse to shine
They’ll stumble in the dark ;
But as the stars are surely mine,
m light one for the mark.”
TheExplanation oftheabove Communication, given
' February 23, 1805. - ,
" Now I shall answer thee from this communi­
cation : Know I said I would light one for the .mark,1
to give light for others ; and light for-’ others was'
given by Pomeroy. Now when a star, is lighted in
the firmament, will you say that that star gave any
light if the clouds should cover it afterwards ? You
must all answer, No : if a star begin to-shine and*
you see its light appear, and you see other stars arise
W the firmament and begin to shine together all itv
Digitized by ( ^ o o Q l e
©nc light ; •if the clouds cover the first, will you say
they must cover the whole ? I tell thee, N o : the
clouds may cover tome, whilst others appear to :shine;
perfectly so it is with man ; he was the-star lighted
by m e to bring to light the hidden things that were
done in darkness; and though the clouds have
covered him that'he doth not appear noWto shine,
yet let it be known unto men, he was the first star,
that was lighted as a light for man ; a^ndfrom his
light the others rose to shine; then now .'let them
weigh deep the manner this communication is spoken,
the. time it was spoken, and deeply weigh it with
your land ; for I shall leave it for all men to judge
for themselves.”
>02 -COMMUNICATION GIVEN IN 170.
Taken out of the Sealed Writings, written in the
year ,1790, copied offFebruary 20, 1805.
A n answer to my Sister’s dispute and mine. M y
Sister asked me, why I did not come to sec my bro­
ther and his wife. I said I did not go with the great,
for they were too grand for me. M y Sister said I
was grown proud. I said, I did go to visit my Fa­
ther, and those that were poor., She said, then you
are come to the pitch of grandeur; for that is the
highest top; it is what the kings did formerly; they
were above the rich, and thought they did not shew
them respect enough ; but visited the poor, because
they shewed them more honour and respect. I said
that was just like m e; for I saw myself slighted
when: I was with my brothers and sisters, that were
richer and greater than myself, but respected with
them that were poor; and this was the pride of my
heart. M y Sister answered, my brotherJoseph said,
that he did not know me. I answered, it was true;
for none of] my brothers.new sisters knew me. She
was at a loss to ihear me confirm the words my bro-
Digitized by Qoogle
DISPUTE BETWE-E& JOANNA AND HER 91STEE. 103
ther spoke; but I told her it, was true. • She then
asked me, if she knew: herself. I answered, N o. '
She said, O, well then f But being answered from
her own words, gave up the .dispute.-—She said all
things were types.
I
THE ANSWER OF THE SFIRlT. .
“ From what thou’st written rilbegim.
For it is.I shall it explain:
Thy Sister said all things were types—
This is a type to men;
And with-the type 111 first begin,
To prove .my honours like a king.
To visit now /the bumble poor
My honour is exalted here; .......
The haughty pride of men*l see,
A re all too.great to honour mb ;
i Because their pride doth-swell so higlv
And think theirselves'as great-as m e; '
Then should 1 to the learned go +
Moreof their grandeur they/would shew—
*
But where’s the man would stoop like thee»
And bear the thought a fool to be ?
For unto thee this hath been told;
Then npw the truth. I .will unfold ;
For now my answer is like thee,
The pride of kinga.it is in.m e; •
And to-the topI ’m surely come,4
My grandeur must to all be known:
And when the humble 4
poondo come
My Spirit I will give to them,
And freely shall with them converse ;
Tis they shall know my love and grace*
But higher shall my honour go*
Than every king did here below
For kings and princes are but men,
I ne'er shall stoop so low as them;
This was the folly in the Jaws;
They from the prophets heard the news'
That I a Prince ana King should Come,
The mighty counsellorforman,
And as a prince l should appear—
Tlie-priest and prophet now is near,
And 1 the Counsellor will be,
Now from thy Brother answer thee:
He thought he knew thee heretofore,
Thy temper mild, which made him err; .
And now with me *tis just the same;
My kindred know not who l ain;
An intercessor I have been,
And deep's the debt I paid for men;
In their distress I did appear,
And perfect love l shov'd them there;
Digitized by Google
COMMUNICATION GIVEN IN 17!
-But how n)yJove hath been abus’d,.
Both by the Gentiles and the Jews r
Because the pride in them too high,
, My mercy’s great, they all:do cry ;
As to the*gold they think their own*
My poverty to them was known,
So nothing they expect from me .
But humbly copae their grandeur see.
And overlook as heretofore;
Anrd'by such dreams mankind do err ;
Are men so blind to think me near,
And pleas’d to see them thus go on,
To bring destruction in the land?
But now I’ll tell thee why ’tis so*
That men no more of me do know;
Because my mind is all conceal’d,
t And to my Friend *tis here reveal’d.
So like thy Brother all are come.
My ways to them are all unknown;
My absence plainly doth appear, .
Gr else my anger men must fear,
To see my own enlighten’d Land, *
To perish by the rebel’s band, *
Who trust to man for pardoning grace—
*
The strength of arms men’s weakness is j
This is the reason men do shew;
But as to m e they do not know.
Had not their conduct chill’d my love,
These armies strong I’d soon remove,
And make them like Sennacherib’s host.
But now their strength I do maintain—
-
The strength of men should soon be lost $
Let ^England know that all are men;
And if like men they will awake,
I say, their cause I’ll undertake.
But now I tell them what to do—-
First prove the Writings they are true,
And spread my Name from shore to shore
The end is come, let nations fear,
And unto m e all nations look,
Salvation’s sealed in thy book;
The Spirit to the Bride is come,
. To say your Lord is hastening home 3
And all the guests you must prepare,
Before the Bridegroom shuts the door.
Now from a type this thing you see 5
>’Tis. but a name is given thee,
To shew my Bible is gone through,
To join the Gentiles with the Jews 3
So Jews and Gentiles now appear
And your strong reasons bring them here
If that my Spirit you deny—
The Bride was never meant that way;
The Bride,and Motherwas at first
When Paradise by her was lost.
Digitized by Google
t t ?b op S
o l o m o n ’s j u d g m e n t .
Then Paradise you must obtain,
By her obedience it 'regain;
Because the power comes from me ;
For where’s the man that strengthens thee?
?Tis not by man that thou art led—
The Bone shall crush the Serpent’s head,
That I at first did take from man 5
So shall my conquering strength go on—
But if that England don’t awake,
I tell them they will surely quake, '
And every one their heads cast low,
If careless on they still will go.
For now my Bible I’ll fulfil—
The Bride is come to claim the Child*
But this thou dost not understand,
Why Solomon did this command,
To have the Child divided there *.
Now I shall make the mystery clear:
For the false Mother did agree
To have the Child divided be,
While the true Mother’s heart did grieve,
She gave it up the Child to save.—
Now the true Mother doth appear,
That ne’er divides my Gospel here;
And many shall her children be,
More than the married wife you’ll see.
But how my Gospel men divide 1 '
For every sect and party’s tried:
4* Divide the Bible” is their cry;
For all must give my tongue tne lie.
If I to men should giVe it up, ■
Till I have drawn the Curtain back ;
For who my Bible can explain?
It is with man 1 must contend;
None of it ever was by thee;
Then now the conqueror you see,
The mighty conqueror is come,
Will they resist my will ?
Then England shall receive the stroke
That every heart shall chilL
Then own I am a Counsellor here,
My prophets did foretel.
Will they still cry that I’m unjust,
To stop the powers of Hell ?
A nd ’twas the Woman he betray’d—
Then Solomon discern:
He dug the pit, in it is laid
Now by the Woman’s hand;
So the same draught he now shall drink
That she did drink at first;
His ruin stands upon the brink,
For sohis dye was cast. '
So if my jury will not come,
I ’ve other sheep that must be known,
J • See 1 Kings iii. 16.
o
Digitized by Google
And them I know will soon obey,
And crown my harvest in a day,
But who they are thou dost not know,
And all shall find thy words are true.
Then little in yourselves appear,
And everj’ mystery soon I'll clears
And now as children all become,
Appear like babes I'll make you men;
And nowfas Iambs you must appear.
Because the shepherd he is near;
And then my sheep you soon will be,
And from the wolfill set you free—
And as the date thou nowhast put,
Just so I say twill be;
For backwaid ever}' one must go
To find the mystery:
' To work with man 1 shall begin,
And make them stand in awe;
The manner thou wilt pin the prizi
Thou wilt hereafter know.
But now if mankind will grow wise
% They’ll bring the prize to thee;
And then that man I'll surely bless^
Jl?s crimes be what they wilL
But thou wilt see the endof this,
For every heart I'll chill
That wish to rob thee of thy crown,
For unto thee 'tis given—
Do t thou refuse to try thy skill ?
Tis 1 the lump shall leaven."
The following communication was given to Joanna
in 179 7, after she had been into'Exeter, and was
informed that M r. Kenrick, a dissenting minister,
had said, the Virgin M ary was a whore, and our Sa-
viour a bastard ; and this pernicious idea he tried to
instil into the minds of some young men that went
to school to him *. When I heard it my soul trem­
bled, my heart shook, and anger and indignation
rose within me against him ; as I was going, I thought
to myself I might say with Peter, I wish to have him
destroyed; and wondered the ministers did not
warmly reprove him; but was answered in the fol­
lowing manner;
“ Now Joanna-thee I’ll answer:
These blasphemers must appear;
' For though Satan is their master,
It is what was said before,
♦ The newspapers announced that this man fell from his horse and
broke bkneck last year, 1804, as lie was hunting.
* ✓
J00 COMMUNICATION GIVEN IN 17Q7.
Digitized by C j O O ^ I c
ONf THE BLASPHEMY OP THE ASIANS.
The latter days are surely come,
’ And periilous days are hastening on 5
Swift destruction they will bring
On your nation and your king.
If men do not them prevent,
This is now my full intent,
- To bring destruction in your Land:
Let men be wise and understand,
* Sedition they have spoken here
Against your King and Governor;
Sedition now by man is spoke,
Their Lord and Master tney do mock;
For they deny their Lord and King.
Now both together this is done;
And you shewed your love to man,
To vindicate your lord and king.
Who is but a worm like you to die—
But now look all to Calvary,
And there beholdyour bleeding Lord:
If ye believe my Father s word,
A Lamb for Man there must be slain, ;
And for the people must atone.
The blood of Abel will not do,
Nor yet of rams, nor lambs below;
!
: was the Lamb, the Son of God,
'hat bought vour ransom with his Blood,
nd now to reason I'll begin,
rom the beginning now explain:
My Father you must all deny,
And give your Lord and God the lie,
If you deny there was no Son
For Satap’s fall by him to come;
Because the Son he did despise—
Then let the sons of men be wise.
In Heaven he drew the first,
And down the rebels all were cast;
And now on earth he’ll do the satn$,
His fire will kindle like a Hatne; .
If these pernicious men go on,
Their followers will many come,
. Till they my Father will provoke
To lay on all a dreadful stroke.*
Thou'st marvel why I this do bear;
Apd Peter’s spirit sure is here,
And fire from Heaven he would call,
That in the end destroy’d them all;
And wanderers in the world they be.—
But now once more I’ll answer thee,
And tell tltee whyd this permit,
That Satan so in man doth speak,
And let them live for to,blaspheme; ^
' His to try the Sons of.men,
If any love they have for me.
I've suffer'd this mankind to try ;
Digitized by Google
JOB • COMMUNICATION GIVEN IN I 797, .
Now if I find them hot por cold,
When thoii’st these things to them unfold,
But dead, and sickly, and lukewarm,
I'll bring on all a dreadful storm;
If they my honour won't maintain,
Like Eli, they shall sure be slain;
For though thou fear’st to write the word,
I'll let them know, with one accord
That I no Bastard did appear,
My Mother no Adulterer; •
My Gospel they^hall find is true,
And they have made it good;
» - ,|r
\TPey cruelty their Lord afresh,
And open every wound.
*Tis perfect what the Scripture saith-v
Now let a Paul be found;
Let Pomeroy bring his fifty metf#,
That will awake like Paul,
And then the JIoly Ghost shall come
And soon destroy them all.
'Let men discern how 1 do warn—
The apostle's words are nigh:
For wells they are, no water’s there.
My flock may thirst and die.
For if a Bastard I did come,
Inheritance you've none:
Then let men come before my throne;
• And tell me what they've done;
And how the crown they must obtain,
My Father’s Laws are broke;
And bring me now the perfect man,
That can endure the stroke,
To throw my Gospel all aside:
My Father must demand
A perfect good and upright man,
Without a spot to stand
Obedient to my Father’s Will,'
And keep his Laws most pure. 1 '
The hearts of all would surely chill,
As Adam's did before;
For all have eat forbidden fruit, . .
As Adam did at first;
And every man must then stand mute,
And Paradise is lost.
To honour all my Father’s Laws
Was never doneby man;
T js 1 must plead the sinners’ cause,
And Satan must condemn;
Because as man 1 sure did cotne,'
And Satantempted me ;*
* This alludes t6 Mr. Pomeroy’s saying in his sermon, that he
knew there was not one wanting of fifty righteous men, to saveth
is
land from destruction.1
Digitized by Google
TYPE OF THE EAR OF SOFT WHEAT. IO9.
Their nature I did undertake,
A perfect Judge to be—
Now those that chuse me for tfreirjudge
Will surely have one mild;
Because to Satan 1 shall charge (
. How he would me beguile.’’
The following communication was given in 1796.
! went down into M r. Woolland’s wheat field, and
was ordered to pluck one of the ears of corn that ap­
peared well to the eye ; but wherr I came to ex­
amine; it, I found there was nothing in-it but a little
soft wheat that must soon shrink up to nothing.
After I had written it, I was answered—
• /
Now stop thy hand, I’ll answer here:
Just as this corn doth now appear,
So perfect are the sons of men,
And now to reason I'll begin :
For like that corn do saints appear, -
And to thy eye seem ripen'd here y
But to examine now begin, , • '
They are perfect like this ear ofcorn ;
For wisdom here hath cried aloud,
But who her voice bath hettvd ?
The wisdom and the ways of God •
There’s no one doth regard;
Then now ye simpleones awake,
And all your softness see;
For perfect like this grain of com,
I say, my followers be:
Dead to the root, and now pluck’d up
Their softness must appear,
To think a simple worm like thee
Could make such writings heres.
Men’s wisdom high I said I d try \
But see their wisdom gone ; /
More softer than this ear of corn
Are all the sons of men.
Now rf their folly they will own,
And all their weakness see,
I'll pluck them up, as thou hast done,
And bring their heads to me ;
And then their senses I’ll unlock^
And let them all appear;
They’ll see their folly in thestalk,
And know they all did err.
But deeper things are still behind
, I'll shewanother day~- *
The pilgrims that are in the wind
Are all unknown to thee;
Digitized by Google
And still my ways are all unknown;
With pleasure thou shalt see
The labour of this painful work,
And no man will blame thee.
But to thy bed I bid thee go,
For I shall say no more;
Another day I'll talk with thee,
And open every door/'
I Id TTPE OP THE SOFT EAR OP WHEAT EXPLAINED.
Here ended the communication, given in 1796.
The Explanation to the above, given Wednesday,
27 th February, 1805, h a s follow s:
Now I tell thee this communication, with the
' other, allude' to thy Trial with thy friends ; and
mark what I told thee, if those that were warned did
not appear, 1 had sheep unknown to thee, that
would appear ; and1 when my appointed time was
come, that I had hid from thee, my sheep that I had
concealed were ready to come forward and prove
-the whole; but. now mark the last place where it is
said, the pilgrims were in the wind that were all un­
known to thee ; here is a shadow, here is a substance,
that neither of you discern ; though thouthoughtest
thou sawest it all clear. Now thou hast owned
thy weakness, I shall tell thee the shadow; but know
I have told thee, there is a shadow and a substance ;
the shadow is past; and call to thy remembrance the1
pain and anxiety thou wast filled with at Bristol,
thinking thy awful Trial was coming on, and it
was quite unknown to thee who the other twenty-
four would be, and I tell thee they came like pil­
grims, that were travelling to a far country they knew
not where ; and so those came without any know­
ledge that they should be chosen as judges, for no
more than a.pi!grim knoweth where he is going, or
Digitized by Google
JOANNA T O L D T O W A IT fW O YEARS IN 1797* V11
what he may meet with in his travels, no more did
they know they were coming to London to be thy
judges; but they were in the wind of providence,
that came as pilgrims without knowledge that they
were the men that should be chosen to turn thy
heaviness into joy ; and though I disappointed thee
and them, yet neither one blamed thee : but mark
the shadow of thy going to bed, by my command,
when thou hadst written the words, no one would
blame thee ; and now mark the shadow of thy fears,
and how thou wast compelled to go to bed by thy
weakness, and by thy faintness; and yet through,
all no man blamed thee. Now mark how all was
spoken, and how all came round in perfect likeness j
and thou judgest this is the end, but I tell thee not,
though the perfect likeness has been fulfilled ip thy
Trial, but the end is not yet.—
July 17, 1797. '
After the event o f that year was put in M r. Pome­
roy's hand, I was answered, ‘ ‘ if that did not convince
him at the end of the year, I must wait two years
after, to see the judgments come on again.” This
wounded me to the heart, to think I had waited so
many, years before, and then had two -years and a
half to wait; as it was bpt in July 1797, and had
two years to wait after the year was up, besides many
kept on tormenting me, that the harvest would surely
be good, and we should have a peace that year. I f
so, I knew the Spirit that visited me was not from the
Lord. This distressed my mind with such jealousy
and misery as no heart can conceive, nor tongue
can express. So I went up into M r. Wbolland’s gar­
den and walked to and fro till near- midnight; look­
ing towards heaven in tears and prayers, wishing for
•Digitized by Google
I l l coM M uifrcATiow arvEir iw j u l y , 1797.
death that my s'otTows might end. I thought on
the past, how all had come true,* which made me
fear to go backward ; and I saw what laid before me,
j f in any thing I was deceived, which made me fear
to go forward. In this distress of mind I wished
for death. T o the feelings o f my heart, I was an­
swered, it was a deep type o f the land.—
} ■
“ When fhith despairs therenonewillcare
Which way t&ir live* do end.
I sav, like thee 11 thousands be;
’Ti* deep the type thou’st penn’d.
' The former thing* oall thou to mind,
0 Think of the night that’s past,
A burning fever in thy heart,
Sorrows too long talast,
With tears began, thou didst complains
The garden travers’d there,
Walk’d,to and fro, thy eye* did flow,
Thy sorrows could’st not bear-r ,
Wait two years more,- and five before>
It wound’d the heart of thee:
For death’s release/ thou wish'd for peace,
And in the grave tobe;
To die with*ME waswish’d by thee,
That thou the crown mignt’st have;
. Weary of life to end the strife,
' The cross may hasten on. '
ThV sufferingspaint mine to the life—
Did my disciples shun > t
, - So *tis by thee, in vain to be
A prophet of the Lord;
Thy paper waste, in vain thou st fast,
And all thy gold bestowed.
all in vain ? dost thou complain? ‘
Then it is time tOrdie, ,
' Wearied with grief to seek relief
Arid know not where to fly;
So compass'd round by every sound
' To bring thy fever on;
*Tisin thy mind, thou art confin’d,
That makes thy fever come;
Wbep flatter'd here that I’d appear
And set the captive free,
Thv burden thou didsjt better bear; • *
^ But here's the mystery:
/ Tfiy friend is gone, the time’s near comet '
Thou judg’d him to appear
To set thee free; bujt now dost say—
“ What, must I stay two years
Digitized by Google'
“ To see my land to ruin come,
' “ Before they will believe ?
«*Then to what ufce will all produce;
“ The dead you can’t reprieve ?”
These reasons here to thee appear’d ;
A bye-word thou’rt become,
A fortune-teller some dp say.
And others thee condemn.
My Spirit's here there few are dear.
Then on thee all may gaze;
N But how thou’st know these things before,
Do many stand amaz’d;
These tilings thou’st know in ninety-two,
Is public spoke abroad;
But how ’twas so they do not know,
Nor trace the ways of God.
Now* five is gone, and six is come.
That thou dost prophesy;
.All labour’s taken from thy hand;
T is time for thee to die:
Thou dost complain, ’tis all in vain
What thou hast suffer’d here. .
If’t be in yaiii for to regain,
Must judgments first appear?
•* Then let me die,” is now thy cry—
4
4If I have liv’d in vain,
“ Or labour'd here, such burden bear,
4
4And cannot freedom gain!”
Thy heart is sore, can bear no more,
The wound hath been too long;
I’ll end of thee—the mystery see,
And to your nation come:
The type is deep, the mystery’s great*
Your land will be the same—
*• We waited Iqng, the years are gone, ,
4
4And hop'd relief would come!”
I f ’tis not so, you all will know
Men’s hearts will be like thine;
* Weary of men they will begin,
And hate them in their mind;
The more you praise, the less they’ll love',
It will increase their flame;
Thy prejudice did it remove,
To hear her praise his name?
Thou ansWeresi, No : the truth is so^
But made thy anger burn;
Then to your land it so will come— '
But Who their hearts can turn?
If men go on as they begin,
Toburden every mind—
« Weary of life will bring the strife,
“ The cross may then be kind *
4
t TcPset us free;” they’ll say lifcethee*
“ Now death must be out*fete!
P
THE “
HYP? OP IOANHA’s JEALOUSIES.
Digitized by
;Google
/
U 4 c o m m u n ic a t io n GIVEN IN JULY, 1797*
««Oar chains we’ll tear, we cannot bear,
“ The burden is too great I
“ Do we complain, ana all in vain?** *
Their fevers will rise high— r
* We care not if we die like him!"
The cross will be their cry.
So thus will come the hearts of men;
Like fevers they will rise—
“ Our sons we’ve lost, our gold is past,
** And all’s before our eyes,
•* And to no use doth it produce;
« We are but burthen d more;
We see the shore, and all is o’er,
“ We’ve wasted all our store 1”
So this they’ll see ; as deep as thee,
Their sorrows they will come,
And perfect like thy Father’s house
They’ll see it in the land:
The quarries they have patch’d them up—
Tis nought but beggary here:
Thy Father’s house isjust like mifl$;
But out the rags I’ll tear;
I will begin as thou didst then,
The doors I’ll make more clean*
Their ragged garments throw away,
For in the light shall cpme;
To make it dry the rags shall fly,
And down they all shall drop;
I II make the water run like thee,
The cob can never hurt
If all is gone—I see my land «
As empty doth appear,
So perfect like thy Father’s house—
What furniture is here
That I can hurt ? ’tis mire and dirt
Appear in every mind!
And perfect like thv Father’s house
I now do sec my land;
Then I'll go on as thou didst begin, *
Till I’ve join’d the two;
1 . And both together they must hang,
* The Gentiles and the Jews;
Then at their feet (the mystery's.great)
The nations all must come.
Write out the text thou heard’st this day.
I’ll answer thee again.”
The text was Proverbs iv. 8, 7— ** Exalt her and
she shall promote thee. She shall bring thee to ho­
nour when thou dost embrace her. Verse 7 — Wis­
dom is the principal thing, therefore get wisdom;
and with all thy getting, get understanding.” — But
Digitized by Google
here I shall leave the text, and give the meaning of
my Father’s house : As he lived by himself, I made
it a custom to go in the summer to make his house
thoroughly clean and wash the floors: the glass was
broken, but the landlady would not mend it; so it
was stopped up with rags, which I pulled out to dry
the floors. I was answered as follows :
t h e house of j o a n n a ’s f a t h e r as a t y p e . 115
u The windows I shall all unhang,
As thou hast now begun;
And through the glass you all may see
The days are hastening on;
For as the squares of glass are broke,
And rags do so appear,
The paper is clin" a to keep the stroke
When winter doth appear.
So now this thing I shall explain,
And to the nation come:
The quarrels tlvey are broken out,
I say, in every land;
And, like these windows, are patch’d up
With rags and paper here}
But like thy pen, Isay, must drop,
When winter doth appear}
Because the glass it now is whole,
• The rags will tumble down}
' When thunder sounds from pole to pole .
No safety can be found,
v So with the land ’tis just the same;
They’ve like thy Father douc;
They patch my people up with lies,
For to keep out the suq.
For as thou sayest thou can’st not see,
Because the place is dark *
,
Just so, I say, my people be—
But now come to the mark;
Take all tbe ra"s and stuff away»
And thou wilt sec more clear;
Nor through a glass ’twon’t darkly be,
Because they are broken there;
And then (be sunshine thou must see,
Or feel the piercing wind.
1 tell'thee plain’s the mystery;
’Tis perfect like mankind:
For by my House they’ve done the same,
And darken’d every iniqd;
Patch'd up the Law and Gospel too,
To beggar all mankind;
For as thy Father’s house appear'd
So beggarly to.man,
Ju st so my honour must appear,
The way that they go on.”
Digitized by Google
COMMUNICATION G IV EN IN JU J.T , 1 7 £ 7 *
♦
The former words I could not understand, and
was answered in the following manner;
u What b thy head so very weak
In things that are so plain ?
I'll tell thee all the mystery.
And all the raas I mean:
The quarrels broke you well do know ;
To every nation come ;
The way they mend it all with rags
It must to thee be known;
They’vo patch'd it up with broken laws*
That from their garments come;
And weak as paper all hath been,
To bring my land toshame.
Are not the windows all broke down.
As those do now appear ?
And where's the glazier that is fbtfnd
To mend the glass that's here ?
But in thy heart thou say'st there's none;
And I may say the same;
For who my Gospel now doth mend.
To say my words are come;
And that the truth is verified
My Gospel to fulfil ?
N o; thb the wise men have denied;
Their ragged garments still
Are patch'd and stuff'd in every hole.
To darken all mankind;
Because their purse they all would save,
And darken every mind;
Give me the rent! is every cry~*
\ But who allow repair ?
For perfect like this landlady
Are all the wise men here;
And if this >vay they do go on,
My anger fast will smoke;
For I shall to the purpose come, .
And down the rags shall drop;
I'H pull them out, as thou bast done,
My floors for to make dry;
In every stop I’ll act like thee
Now in this house of clay: ' -
My Father's laws I'll now maintain, .
And vindicate hb cause;
Myanger it shall rise like thine;
To vindicate hb laws.
I'm wearied out, as thou hast been,
To hear their foolish tales;
But to the purpose let them come,
If I their wounds do heal.
Wrong in their work do all men £0;
Apd every man doth err;
Digitized by Google,
They cutjav fuel high, I know.
And spoil the vineyard* here;
Close to the root doth no man got*
To reason I’ll begin ; t
But as their weakness Ido know,
I shall explain the thing:
For like thy Father all have done,
To cut my Bible high*
So that thestubbie still doth stand—
And here’s the mystery:
Another after him did come
To cut the fuel low,
Because thy Father s labour s gone.
And all aid own 'twas so;
Then own your labour all isgone*
And now your weakness see }
Then to my Holy Hills I’ll comet
And cut the stumps awdy;
' Close to the root I’ll surely go, »
Till I have made it plain;
The barren wildernessyou’ll see.
That man could never prune:
Weak as thy Father all are come;
For here my words go deep—
The branch cut offand stumps remain.
If I like man should sleep.’
The Valley of Jehoshaphat, a communication
ven in 1796.
4
4For to the valley all must come
'that will be sons of light;
A valley’s low, you all shall know,
And lowly all must come
When that 1 do begin to plead.
And rescue every man|
For when the battles I have fought.
And every victory win*
I’ll bring them in the valley lowv
And reason then with men. -
if.
The vallies low, Fil let themknow,
It must be in the heart;
, Together every man shall come
-And know how l did smart,
And what I suffer'd to this day,
As I for man do feel;
The marks can ne’er be done away—
My side is open still
A doubtingThomas to receive,
A persecuting Paul;
The tremblingjailors I will free.
And men shall know me all,
That in th* valley now will come,
As doves begin to fly.
v THE VAIi&Bir OP JfiHOSH&FHAT,
Digitized by Google
The valley must be in the hearts
The Battle's drawing nigh ;
Imperfect is thy Father's house$
mnperfects every land ;
Then trust to me for victory,
If ye are imperfect men.
As to perfection I see none—
The perfect ones are gone; »
Sickly and wounded all by sin,
I see, is every one.
I said thy Father's house, like mine,
Was now to ruin come;
Therefore I see 'tis time for me
To come and make an end.—
*Tis deeper than philosophy
The lines that thou hast penn'd.
Now let the learned men appear
Their Bibles to explain,
And tell me how they think 'twill
That I shall call them in;
What signs or wonders will they see,
That I have not foretold?
Or how do they expect 'twill be,
hfy Bible all untold ? *
If they will say they can explain,
And shew theirjudgment clear;
I say that they are more than men*—
A Peter must be here;
For flesh and blood can never know,.
The way I shall proceed.
*Tis words must try the hearts of men,
Or they will never bleed;
For signs or wonders will not do,
*Tis.words do try the hearts
And words shalPbrin" all to their view
Why I for man did smart
So.now if man will humbly come
Thy written.hand to see,
And own thou art a simple worm,
My Spirit sure must oe,
Andfrom the Spirit wish to know,
And honour the Most High;
Then sureiny Spirit they shall know,
And so may prophesy."
118 COMMUNICATION IN FEBRUARY,' 1797'
' The following communication was given in Feb­
ruary, 1797- Finding the death of the bishop,-
whicii was foretold by me, did not convince men of
the truth of my prophecies, filled me with despair
and jealousy; and being earnest in prayer one night,
my heart was so deeply affected, that I fainted away;
Digitized by Google
Mrs. Woolland and Mrs. Minifie came in, and they
threw water over me, to bring me to life; yet I was
very poorly the next day- after I arose. I was an­
swered in the following manner
4
4Now, Joanna, thee I’ll answer:
' In the green tree this was done;
Thou must suffer like thy Master,
For the stubborn sonsof men;
Their chastisement is laid on thee;
JSy thy stripes they heal'd must be,
i f they will be heal’d at all: % >
Now is the time to stand or.fall.
All physicians are in vain;
I shall fist bring on thy pain ;
Force of arms will never do**
Violent means are in my view/
To my will thou must submit,
And tliotk’lt know my love is great;
Health to thee I’ll not restore,
Till I’ve open’d every door;
But if open they’ll not come,
1 6 hall lay thee in the tomb;
Then my anger fast shall smoke,
They shall feel a dreadful stroke—
As thou wring’st the silk therein,
So I’ll wring the dregs of men t-
For mv honour Shall not die;
Men shall know ’tis the Most High
That doth all these threatenings send; j
’Tis I indite, though thou dost pen.
Mark the time thy health decays ;
Mark the words that 1 do say;
In thy writings what’s before;
Will men say that thou dost err ?
All these things thou didst contrive ? ^
Thou canst kill, or make alive;
In thyself thou ought canst do,
For to make thy writings true ?'
Have I left thee to thy will, ,
Ne'er thy heart with anger chill;
Simply let thee to go on, •
No man bids thee hold thy tongue?
Still to random thou must go;
1 This the sons of men do know ;
Me they judge to be the same;
Am I like the human frame ?
In thy heart thou answerest, No; ,
Deepen than them I do go;
* Joanna was in such violent fits at the time slie fainted, that hei*
friends were not-able to restrain her ip them.
t t his alludes to Joannas wringing the cotton to get some ink
out of it. ., ' * ■
-JOANNA SUFFERING FOR MANKIND. - 110
Digitized by Google
180 C W M t V I C A T iO K IN F IB H U A B Y , ^70?*
Deeper thing*arc still bchmd,
tV hen thou hastheard Pomeroy** mind.
ftat the sands are hastening on*
To the purpose 1 shall corae^ •
* For when Cent doth but appear.
Tell them what l suffer’d here
By the unbelieving Jews; ,
Let the Gentiles hear the news—
Like the stubborn Jews before^
They have open’d every pore*
Every passion they awake
See the Bride then at the stake, %
Fasting like her Lord before-*-
1 shall open every pore.
All my sufferings she shall sec;,
Lent shall come, and Lent shall nei*
Kow I tell yon His but Lent—
For a space you. may repent,
Or relent of what you’ve done.
Will you laugh, or will you m ow *
For to see the suffering Bride
On a bed of anguish laid ?
Every passion then awake,
View her Master at the stake!
Here the sevens they are tomarV
AncLsee how things do go,
*Tis but one figure doth them part
Twice the sevjen feels the dart.
Then let the leprous men return,
Or too late they all shall mourn;
Let them know my Spirit’s near;
Can they doubta thing so clear i
Blinder than the Jews must be,
If theyjudge it came from thee,
Or from Satan to indite.
Wiser than the sons of light. ,
^A II together let them weigh*
^ See the judges of the day; .
Hath gross darkness cover’d therec . ,
In all your land it doth appear:
Blind oy practice and by sin, ,
Blind 1 seethe prudent mon;
For their undlerstanding’s hid—
Let them see thee in thy bed*
When thy passions I awake, ^
They mpy marvel what thou’lt sneak.
Will they break the bruised reed >
Bruis’d tor them thy heart most bleed.
*Tis I have lull’d thee so asleep*
But I shall thee soon awake,
And thy nature fast I’ll waste,
?
f I find that men dojest
$ow with patience thou must bear
The heavy stroke w coming near. .
Digitized by Google
io^PfiillNGS. 12 1
Ncfw, Joanna, tf»ee FHAnswer:
M&rk die wqrds I said before,
^hou must now sweat like thy MASTERt r
Anti must operrevery pore.
. As thy blood doth altieejn tainted;.
,, Perfect so is the state.of manj .
Alt thy health doth now seem w^tecT,
.. r ; J S b the strengtlik ofatl is gone: . : ; * :
^bvery main as weakns thee, . .
' 6 ut tlieifweakness ’do not see, , ;
t Their disorder do nof feel; ^
Think they want, no qge to heal J :;. . / r■ '
But the time is drawing nigh,
They’ll wafat hdlp as well as thee { ' "
They will want the fmhe’s care, > ; J
Full as much as thou clast here ^
For thyself fliou cansf nof tend, -
And thou’ft nursed thy friend's; ' .
They’ll want friends as welt £s thetvi-
Deep’s the hidden mystgry." .: , n
J(n Explanation giv^n iojke above, March 6, 1
8
0
5
.
“ N ow ? .Joanna', I shall, answer thee-'; and know
this m orning.I called thee aloud, and now I call
aloud to all then ;; had the words I spoke .to thee, ip
179 7, been then fulfilled all men would say, it wtfs
an artful invention of thee, or a disorder in thy head ;
and all would judge thee fit for Bedlam, had it then
been fulfilled in Woolland’s house? therefore I or­
dered thee to seal it tip 3 and I sealed it up.from thy '
memory. But now let all men call to their remem­
brance, what happened to-thee at Bristol. Now
mark the words I said to thee— -then Lent was com­
ing and it should be lent for a space ; and for a space
it was lent to thee; the type I placed in thee, for the
nation at large. N ow let them remember all thou
hast suffered upon thy bed; all the words, thou ut-
teredst, in the agony of thy soul,' and how thou saw-
est the sweats of thy Master in thy bed 3 all these
sufferings, and all these sweats, Char thou hast suf­
fered thyself, and saw m e in the vision in thy bed,
are all published to the world,,before this commu­
nication was made known to the world, sealed up
from thernan d from thy knowledge. Now let men
Q
Digitized by I C
*1
weigh the whole together : thy illness in 1797* was
only placed as a type and a shadow ; but. how could
I place that type and shadow, without /placing som e
illness in thee at that time ? Now as merf have called
thee an impostor, I will appeal to the conscience o f
all men, if an impostor that had shammed the first, to
write in that manner from a trifling illness, whether
they would not go on to sham an illness, to sa y it
was fulfilled, and have sent for Pomeroy, on a pre­
tended sick bed. This, I tell all men, might have
been done, and would have been done by an im ­
postor ; therefore I concealed from thee the sense
and meaning of the words, that a time was to com e,
that I should fulfil them, to prove to rpen and de­
vils thou art no impostor, nor any deceiver. A n d
now I shall corpe to the purpose of thy visitation ,at
Bristol; the words I said unto thee— thou must bear
for man and m e , in 1 7 9 7 , thou didst bear at Bristol
in the 1804. Now let all men weigh the words deep—■-
by thy stripes they must be healed, if they would be
healed at a ll; and let them markthy stripes that are
known to thee and thy friends. . Now I tell them all,
it is by thy stripes, it is by thy sufferings, and what
thou hast gone through, must heal them-of their un­
belief, if they will be healed at all. For I how tell
thee, if unbelief abounds, and men gO on in their
mockery, all the stripes and sufferings, that come
upon thee as a shadow, shall come upon the nation,
as the substance. Sp let men weigh one with the
other, and judga for themselves; and mark what
thou sufferedst,after thouheardest from Pomeroy, what
thou hast suffered for men’s unbelief; let them judge
for theirselves what ,they must suffer for their own—n
. For now to man l bold shall come i
And line by line trace back,
And tell me how alb this was done* ,
If I did never speak,
To shew to man now things must corpe|
When 1 began in thee*
122 COMMUNICATION OF -EKB. 1797 EXPI-AINBD.
Digitized by Gbogle
It was in sufferings I did name—
Let men thy sufferings see,
And all together now compare
With every line was penn’d;
Then they must know ’tis time to fear,
Andjudge it in the end,
Before their fate be cotne too late, '
They cannot judge at all;
For if 1 bring them to thy state
Of sufferings,* they must fell.
I rais'd up thee, they alfdo see, N *
To shew them all the end;
But deep they’ll find is the mystery
Concerning of thy friends, ^ \
That did appear the whole to hear—
And now the Seven see,
That I commanded to come there ,
/ And hear the truth of thee.
The seven men—now mark the end, .
And in the seventh year, .
The seventh, fbonth, thou say’st did bend.
Then see the mystery clear.
What must come on, upon your land,
Before the tcnii up,
And then with joy thy friends may stand, ,
For all thy foes shall drop.
So now discern the way I warn,
And let your land take care;
I said thy stripes should heal thy friends, 1
But all thy foes must fear;
Because on them it back shall come,
Redoubled so shall be.
I give this- warning to your land, .
Then let no one blanfe mjs ;
So as ’tis Lent let them repent1 ,
Of all that they haye done;
For nOw, I say, my mind is bent ✓
, To bring thy stripes on man.
But how could i that dwell on high
Severely so appear, 1
While ’twas conceal'd from every eye
The threatenings I've plac'd here ? .
I tell you plain, ye sons of men,
If you the lines can see,
No longer here could you contend, '
Bpt own it comes from me*
But if all came m a straight line.
It might be done by man,
Notwith my Bible to agree, 4
The way I’ve laid my plan. ’ *
I’ve brought it round in every sound, ,
My Bible men might see;
And as thy fasting did begin, * ;
Thou knowest it did end by Ms. *
Q 2
TifPfi OP W FPfipING S FOR UNBELIEF. 12l
Digitized by
_ %
Google
’Twas by command tjiou didst b^in
The seven years before;
But mark by M£ bow ail didend.
When tliop no bread could’sj bear}
Just so is man y as now they stand,
They break the bread for me j
But as my Gospel they’ll not clear,
My anger ttycy will sep.
I ask of men how they can come
For to awake,the Jews,
And make my £o?pel but a % in }
The truth they all refuse: k
My Gospel stands by my command
For m e to make it clear—
The.visions tliat were seen by John
The Jews must see them bare j
For to fulfil is novy ipy will, ,
And make my Gospel plain: .
The way the visions men have plac'd
Was ne’er of use to men* '
What prophecy will they now ciy
In ought to this made good?
You say the Church that way doth lay,
As it is understood; . .
But now to men [ thus shall come, .
And bid them answer m e,
What use this prophecy iskno\fn» J
If it is plac’d that way ?
The Jews thereby will never ciy,
My Gospel is made clear, %
If you deny the prophecies, v
-
Or the fulfilment here. ‘
Mo, simple men, you may contend# •
Your wisdom will not dd,
To prove my Gospel in the end, '
Aud wake the stubborn Jews.
The Roman bands may ever stand • ’
The way you all go on,
Nor can Jou waken every land
. To prove the time is come.
My Gospel here doth now appear •
In every truth to shine;
, And in your land do Arians staud,
• And men of different minds. •
- So they’ll go on. 1 tell you plain.
As they’ve w*enton before,
Till for my Gospel I'll contend,
. . The truth in all is clear.
' The Son of God will ne’er bg know'd,
T he way I died for man, /
Till l have made my Gospel clear,
. . And prov’d it by my plan.
{Therefore in thcc’s such mysteiy
I alUhings dp bring round,
124 COMMUNICATOR 9? FBB. 1707 EXPLAINED
Digitized by Google
soasti*a.*$ jealous* autofasting, ih 1797. 125
That in the end they a)l may see
The way my Bible's found.
So now discern how I do warn,
With what '^99 said before,
Then you may see your ,end will be '
- As it was plac’d in her.
Had shedrawn back she’d felt the rack*
And never seen this day;
Because ’twould been a fatal stroke,
If faith had died away;
Then she must die; I tell you why,
My word was gone before, '
Jf she in unbeliefdid lie,
v Her life must sure end there;
But she did not—now mark the stroke^
Where faith in them is true.
To rise like thee the dnd they'll see ;
• I've rais’d thee fora Sign ;
The end believers all will see,
That judge the calling mine.
But unbelief bring* on their griefJ
That thou didst feel before; .
But l to none shall give relief,
That mock my calling here.
So judge the hand, how all do stands
This warning is for all;
The stripes of thee let England see,
And deeply weigh the call.
$o HI end here gnd say no more.
Till men have weigh'd it deep;
Then 9 few words to thee I’Hclear.
Why thou for man didst weep.’*
The following communication was.given in 1 797*
In Lent, when.my hearf was deeply wounded, being
jealous for myself, as most of my friends kept blam­
ing me for continuing my writings, and I myself
was stumbled, as I had written to the-archdeacon and
the chancellor, by the command of the Spirit, and
they paid no regard to my letters; this added to m y
own jealousy, I could not pen my feelings; for
though I trembled to go forward, I was afraid to go
backward, and disobey by eating of meat; though
I very sharply felt the want of it. After I penned
my feelings, and the words of mankind on Ash W ed i
nesday, I began my fasting on the Sunday before;
Cruel and harsh doth the conduct o f all men appear
tom e; I wearied,myself for nought; vain and fruit-
126 co\tltiUNication givxn iw lk k t, 1 7 ^
less hath been my time wasted, as none lay it to
heart! W ho hath believed the report ? Or to whom
is the arm of the'Lord revealed ?
THE ANSWER OF THE SPlltIT.
" Now, Joanna, thou stop there $
For I shall instant answer here:
Is it for nought thy time is waste ?
Then judgments 1 shall bring them fast.
It is the stubborn sons of men
That pulls tbe vengeance in your land.
As all my Bible's thrown aside,
And men are fill'd with nought but pride }
Then 1 shall surely cut them low,.
As with thy paper thou dost do %
For with my Bible this they've done:
I see the lofty sons of men,
Perfectas thou hast tried them here
Their hearts in general are every where.
1 knew before it would be so;
Unto these men l bid thee go,
That thou the fruit by them might'st try,
And see they're dead and wither d lie
Now if my vengeance fast comes on.
It is the snepherds all must blame y
Dead to the root they surely be y
Their preaching's but hypocrisy,
To strip the cloathing from the sheep—
They've never been into the gap
To mend thebreach that's broken down |
No Moses in your land is found;
Josephs nor Calebs ye have none;
If there's a Jacob, let him come
And say he will not let it go,
Till he the perfect truth do know;
Thy name and nature let him find,
Ana shew thy letters to mankind.
It is the priests l do condemn ;
Thesheep are starving by their hands.
* And now I bid them to appear;
They have turnedtheefrommy altar there t —
*
And to thy conscience I must go,
And canst thou say it is not so>
But here thou canst not this deny;
* Then in the ditch they'd let thee lie y
Because they say tbat tbou art there.
And this isall the shepherds'care.
Then sure they do but fleece my sheep,
And others they like thee may weep,
And leave my altar all like thee,
And their hyprocrisy may see.
Joanna being in want of paper to write a note, she cut a pieceof
the sheet she was writing on tor that purpose.
t The conduct of the clergy at Exeter made Joanna think it im­
proper to receive the Sacrament from them, except when Mr. Pcjr
roy was there.
Digitized by Google
3>HEAM OP HATTINO, TH E CO»5f> ; 1 2 7
Which way soevermen dojudges • ; ; > v ^
1 will them all condemn ; . . . .
For unto thee what do they lay— T. . . .
Appear ye sons of men. . .r. . .
Thy sin is of the greatest die,
If fromthj self *tis done 5
For thou must now* mock the Most Higfy
And he reprov’d by none.
Is this the love men bear to me ?
Such love I do despise:
Out of my month l’li spue them all—
And will they boast they’re wise ? .
Bring now my Bible to their view, V
Their learning’s all in vain;
Blind leaders of the blind 'tis true
Are all the learned men.
Thou seal'st the people in my name,-
And what was my decree,
And yet they put thee not to shame,
Nor tell thee sin’t must be.
Then bow my Bible do they know, ’
I do of them demand,
The blackest sin to sufferso,
And none reprove thy hand ?
I f from the devil they dispute,
Then he may have his prey 5
I bid the sons of men be mute,
They’ve not a word to say.
I f from the Lord they do believe
There is but one that’s clear,
••That wish to know what I have said—
Let Pomeroy now appear,
And answer fof the sons of men $
For I’ll not set thee free ;
1 surely will bring on thy pain,
Till Pomeroy thou dostsee. « ?
Imagination, if they please.
May cast Jhee on thy bed;
Imagination fillstheireyes,
What h&ve they now to dread ?
With words provoke to bring the stroke,
Let Pomeroy kill or cure ;
They may imagine what they will,
?fis what I said before.
Jlarsh are the words that I have spoke|
Harsh are the sons of men ;
J$ut as thy heart seems almost broke, x *
Then death or life shall hdhl l”
Here I ended. The first Friday in Lent, I dreamt
I was in a wheat field, and had been hatting the
wheat, as it was all cut down ; I thought I was very
thirsty, and had nothing allowed but water to drink,
tmt afterwards stole some cyd ef; after that I visa
' Digitized by Google
carried through the air to many strange “
places. As
my ink was very pale I was answered in the following
manner:
128 CGMMVNICAI'ION GIVEN IN I.RNT, 1fQJ.
4
4In death or life shall l begin >
Thy ink is like the sons of men;
As too much water's poured here,
And scarce can make thy writing? clear f
So t^o much water’s in the heart,
They do not feel how I did smart,
When by the unbelieving Jew#!—
Now let the Gentiles hoar the news,
That in the balance both must come $
For both alike I now condemn.
The Jews with rage and passions high
Did-ftail my haryls at Calvary ;
Because, they said, I did blaspheme,
To say the Son of God was come
In such a lowly, humble form—
The purple gore by malice came I
And this was done through fiery zeal;
They said my wonders came from hcllj
And when they saw me on the tree,
They said they’d then believe in me,
I f I would shew one wonder more/
To loose my bands when fasten’d there !
So here’s the folly in mankind :
When to their folly 1 resign’d,
To unbelief I gave them up,
The temple’s veil in sunder rent,
And darkness soon came o’er the land,
While men in unbelief didstand,
And what to think they did not know $
For many fear’d 1 might be true,
And came believers in the end,
While harden’d sinners still remain’d, .
Till I their city did destroy,
Despis'd their King and none enjoy’d.
Now by the Bridegroom this was done—■
My Life was offered once for Man ;
But 1 shall offer it no more : -
Though every’woundtheyareopeninghehe
The Gentiles take a different way ;
1 see their hearts as cold as clay—
For thou hast surely sicken’d m e ;
Did e’er a Woman write like thee?
And to the sons of men *tis told,
' Their heart are neither hot nor cold;
For what thou'st do they do not care ;
More sickly than the Jews they are.
So from thy ink I shall go on: _
This is ^ shadow of thv dream ;
For nought hut water was allow’ d
- j tjtep tp write the Word of God.
Digitized by G o o g l e
REASONSWHT OUR LORD CAME IN A LOW STATE. 129 '
My harvest thou must gather in $
1 say *ti$ time to hat the corn:
For though one swallow doth appear*
1 say, your summer is not near;
Though^from the simple tale was told* *
You say you’re getting Spanish gold * $
But now, 1 say, ’tis time to fear,
Your Spanish gold is not so near.
+ What’s in the wind you dd pot know*?-*
Do men now govern all below ?
Then badly govern’d all would be;
Too long they’ve govern’d, I do see* /
' Till all my Bible they forsake, v
And poor men’s hearts with anguish break.
For now, in this extremity,
1 I see in man more cruelty ;
For as the burden is begun,
’Tis doubled by the sons of men. . v
- Their heartsare harden’d,consciencenone*
Since 1 have*left mankind alone; x
And yef restraint I do put some,
Or else they’d bring m e soon to shame.
A child that’s left to his own will,
His measure soon with guilt he’d fill*
And bring his parents to disgrace j
And this^is like the.human race;
For If the World was rul’d by man*
To ruin every soul must come,
s For now to reason I’ll begin :
The worldly wisdom sliew ofman,
Whose wisdom you think fit to rule,v
Hear first, and then judge as you Will.”
These words were given, sortie in answer to A -
theists, that judge there is no God to govern, others
that judged the Lord would nev'er stoop so low as
to reveal any secrets to the poor. The answer is as
follows:
€
t Now from the Jews I’ll first begin:
They judg’d that I should come a king**
And witli the rich and great to go,
j And every earthly grandeur shew.
Nowrhad I come unto their will,
Their hearts with pride must surely fill*.
And all th£ lofty sons of men*
Would.tben^awg^ds begin to reign,
And sayjhey nruist be honour’d here,
For like their master sure they were 5
And so with pride their hearts would swell,
Till earth would soon resemble hell ;
• The news wa* we should get gold enough'of the Si aniardfl to carry
•n the war. *
R
Digitized by Google
13(0 COM M UNICATION G IV E N Itf LENT, 1 7 9 7 ­
' And gold would be their every god,
v AmLdqwn the poor must soon be trod;
For sure already this is done ;
The poor are trampled on by man.
But theh they may not now despair,
Because my image they do bear;
But was my image in the great,
The poor then tremble at my feet;
Then sure the poor might all blaspheme, -
And curse the days that they were born;
Unless like Stoics they become,
More ignarant than the creatures'dumb,
' No hearts tofeel, nor eyes to see,
, They were despis’d by man and ms,
, And born to be the negroes bere;
’Tis more than nature e’er could bear.
The rich would swell like Herod king.
And like thelice the poor would come v
To swarm around ana to destroy;
* And where’s the man I could enjoy ^ ,
* For pride Beast the angels down; , .
No fellowship with them was found; ’
The heavens In disorder stood, , *
• While Satan’s pride despis’d his God.
Stoop to his word he could hot bear,
And pride brought on the tumult there;
And fast the number he did draw v
To sin against iny Holy Law, * *
TiU war in heaven begun at first, .
" And down the rebels all were cast.
But how could 1 the devil blame.
If pride had fed nteoo the same,
To fill the world up with pride ? .
Then Satan might stand by my side,
' And say, ** thou art come down like us
“ To fill'the nation with a curse ;
“ Because thegreat thou’ltswellthemmore,
. €
€InHict the curse upon the poor.”
For this the devil has ever done, ;
And swell the pride of ignorant men, /
* To tell them they are rich and great,
And puff them up with self-conceit; •
Writh murmuring he doth fill the poor—
\ Another day I’ll tell thee more ;
I said I’d answer thee again,
From deeper words l shall begin: ,
If I should copy after men,
t The world a hell would soon become;
The rich and great wouldswell with pri8fe#
The poor would murmur by their side ;
Envy and malice in the one,
Despise the Fatherahd the Son;
The rich would think theifgold ttifeirgod/
Digitized by Google
And say my grandeur 'there was shew’d,
While {he poor man would m b despise—
* All hearts in tumults soon would rise :
The rich would think they were too high; '
Like Lucifer would be their cry— •
d
t Whefe shall we stoop ? he was a Man
4
4Seated like us upon a throne ;
, 4
4And we’ve a throne the same as he ; '
. “ Whatdifference now then can there be -
J The poorwould say that t)iey were curs’d, .
And be Kke Cam, that*was the first
Who envied so his brother there, \ '
t Till malice brought him to despair. ..
' And this would be the state of man,
If 1 should act as weak as them. ,
Map by wisdom cannot rule, 1
While he is tainted by the Fall;
Because his wisdom will not do— „ -
Judge for yourselves if’t be not true. - ,
But now to reason I’iJ begin:
I’veshew’d my love to every man $ v
The rich I bless’d with earthly store; , f
. ' If they act right I’ll bless them more ;
If faithful stewards they will be,
In order guard mv family, ,
And guide niy substance with such care,
i That no complaining 1 may hear
From those that I have plac’d below;
/ A good account I bid them shew;
For all the earth is surely mine,
I’ve fix’d the stewards in mankind.
' Now to my House I shall return,
A full account of all demand,
What every steward here hath done; •
And know, in m e stands the poor man—*
The judge is to thejury bounds ’
The lowest jury gives the sound,
' Whether the victim must be free y
Guilty or not, ’tis pass’d by they. _
. Now as a b e g g a r i’ll appear, 4
As I in Bethlehem did befor^— . ^
' Have i no lodging in the inn ? \
Then to the m a n g e r I must come;
And in the m a n g e r 1 find room,
Where l may gently lay my head, ,
. And sleep compos’d on this low bed.
. Now to the m a n g e r lef them come:
For furniture I say there’s none; 4 ,
Nor of her talents doth she boast,
Nor say .she’s wiser thah the rest; ' •
But if herjudgment is betray’d,
T he Spirit’s wrong that doth her lead. '
Thirsting for my Spirit she hath been,
And trembling stolen it from men;
THE LORD 1
1
5AGAIN COME TO TUB HUtyriLE. 131
• • 112
.Digitized by Google
Resolv’dshe was the truth to have,
All hazards run to kill or save;
For though by mamshe was denied,
^ The ways are many she hath tried,
^ ( To know if she was right or no,
And still like Jacobshe doth go,
Her Fathers blessing for to steal—
- pleas’dwith herSchemes, I’ll blessherstill !*
• T h e following communication was given in Jan.
J7Q8, and taken from the sealed writings; March
'7 , 1805, in answer to men’s saying they did not be-
iieve my prophecies; as they had so long threatened
of dangers, and saw none come •, and thought the
wars and dangers would be soon over; to which I was
answered—
Then now I bid them to take cafe,
If they do think they’ve nought to fear j
, For like the Boy the end you’ll see
y hojested so long the Bear to be,
When in reality was none.
Ilis friends had often heard his ton$,
And found so long he did deceive, .
No truth from him did they believe \
And when the truth did sure appear.
They thought hejested as heretofore,
, And never stirr’d his life to save—
This warning to your land l gave :
Simple’s the fiible thou must pen, \
I’ll clear the mystery in the end.”
_ *
The fable was of a boy that had many times cried
out, a bear! a bear! The people went to his assist­
ance, but finding th e.boy only mocked them, for
a long time paid no regard to his word ; at last the
bear did come, and the poor boy cried for help in
vain ; they thought he wa§ jesting as before, and
none came to bis assistance, till the bear had torn
him in pieces. T o this fable I was answered-—
*• Now hete^s the type, for it is deep,
Which to your Land I’ll bring:
Thou’st warn’d so long the bear would come,
And some believ’d the thing;
But years roll’d on, no bear is come,
You think yoo’re mocked here ;
But, like the boy, your end will 'come
And take you unaware. * ^
129' CdlUMUNICATION IN JANUARY, 17Q8.
Digitized by Google
FABLE OF THE BOY* AN 1
) BEAR S&T AS A.^TY*fi, 433
Dos| thou deceive, do men believe, »
And give no credit here ? ' ' 4
Then in the end you all will grieve,
And find.the furious bear
W ill surely come to you unknown, „
When you do not expect,
When thou art torn from every hand \__>
That doth thee so reject
Then all, too late, will see their fate—
Mocking is catching here* >
If I do mock, with men tojoke,
1 bid thejn now take care ! V - -
What I do mean I’ll now explain,
How I do jest with man ;
For in disguise, before their eyes,
I unto them am come ;
•Because that here, I’ll make it clear, ,
My Spirit is come down,
And like the nations heretofore, ^
There’s none can judge the sound;
For mockers here, Til now make clear,
Was there no differentsound,
When he did careless cry, the bear !
And when the bear was found,
A different cry is said by thee,
' A different cry they’ll hear y 4 . '
And if that men goon this way,
They’ll find the furious bear.” '
Here ends the communication. W hjle this com­
munication was copying offyfny heart began to swell,
as I thought it was the boy that way destroyed,^ and
not the people that disregarded his cries; then the
fable must allude to me alone ; to which I was
jmswered-r-
‘ " . ^
ff From thy folly I shall answer,
As thy ponderings 1 do know,
And the fable thou hast mention’d,
To thyself thou’st plac’d it so.
Fj’oryi thy thoughts l now shall answer,
As men say ’tis thou dost mock, *
If they do not know thy master,
Thou in^y’st feel from man. a stroke. ■ ^
Though 50 l°nS thou bust been jesting,
Thy-accusers so will come ; "
Now the fable thou hast mention’d
Is for thee, and for the Land.
For t tpU thee, now the sorrow ,
Of the fable it will fall
N On thy head, as I've told thee,
Though they think thou’st mock'd so long}
• - Yet 1 tell thee, in great fury *
Men will to the purpose come, v /
Digitized by Google
Here I own doth stand the fable,
In one shadow unto thee •
And I know thou art not able
From thy dangers to get free5
So 1 will not here deceive thee,
Yet thy folly still 1 blame,
As I’ve said I’ll never leave thee,
But thy foes I’ll put to sbaine. '
Now come closer to the fable :
When they saw the child was dead,
Where’s the neart that now is able
For tormock the words he said ?
' N o; I tell thee, in deep mourning
Every friend the sight did see *
,
Many hearts must then be burning,
And repent thpir crupltyv
So now to man the whole will come—
The table's deep for all:
*Tis deep for thee,' I now do say,
And to your Land ’twill fall.
So I’ll end here and say no more;
But let men weigh it deep :
I’ve skew'd the ocean and the shore,
The way the end will break;
But can your Land the trial stand,
When every truth is clear?
, She warn’d so longr and now ’tiscom
e,
’Tis time for all to fear.
When thou art dead, when thou art fled,
The floods will fast come op—
' The other fable, I have said, ' _
' Must with this fable join.”
Here finishes the explanation that is given this
day, March 7. } 305. And I am ordered to pen
.another parable, that was written on December 8,
179 9 . I was at work at Tiverton at a farm house;
and while I was there the floods arose Insuch a man­
ner that the grounds were all overflowed where the
farmer had a flock of sheep. They observed in the
night the floods were risen, and the sheep were
gone, and they could no ways find them that night;
in the morning, when the floods began to abate,
they found the sheep drove down in the wood that
stood very high like a bank, which was the way as
they supposed the sheep had got their footing, and
they were all preserved. T o which I was answered—
“ As the floods arose to drive the sheep, just so
will the floods arise in the world. I do not s;«y of
134 COMMUNICATION OP JAN. 17Q8 EXPLAINED.
Digitized by i ^ o o Q l e
PARABLE OP SHEEP SAVED FROM THE FLOOD. 131f
WMers only, but floods of various kinds; yet I will
preserve my sheep in the midst of dangers, and carry
them by faith to a plhce where no floods shall hurt
them. T h e shadow is simple, but the type i^deep
of your land ; for as- the floods arose, that carried
away the sheep, so will dangers arise in youf land $
yet believers will be preserved, as the sheep were.
But let them believe all the promises tjiat are made
to believers, in Christ, and no floods shall hurt
them-; for when the storms of dangers swell over
your land, I will protect them that believe in m e ,
and they shall stand secure, as the sheep did,
though they have the floods to pass through-—
But unbelief will bring on grief
To those that hear tfiecall N
With hearts'unmov’d—I know their 1oy<
v
T hey’re sickly and lukewarm ;
And blind they'll be, you all will see*
When 1 bring on the storm
* That must arise—let men grow wise l
For it will hasten on ; . *
The days &re near for to appear
That men will see it come.
Now L
’ll begin from types to m^n—
The woman did come blind
No feeling in her heart was seen—
The mysteries jie behind;
For in your land so blind* men siand^
]; The>daylight cannot see ;
And everyframe, X know their name*
< They’re all as dead to me '
> . As she becanxe^-I see your land *v
So perfect like these two ;
She,that had sight didjudge the light*
If by it she will go t i
The other blind no light could find, '
And now from types 1 come :
The Woman here did so appear,
And this is like your laud,
That will bring on a heavier storm
Than was raised by the flood ; '
And some will see the mystery, .
And fly uear to the wood ;
That is, you see, in faith to ME $
- For now I warn you all,
* A woman that was a believer, led a blind woman, who was a great
professor of religion, to Joanna; but she would* not believe in the
prophecies,
t After this rile fell back also.
f
Digitized by
f
136 COMMUNICATION 0]P JANV 1708 EXPLAINED.
This very year what dath appear,
' Will nd one judge the call, /
The thing’s of God it will be kaow’d
To those tliat are not blind;
And bv the light, (1 say, the sight
Wiif guide them where to find
The perfect way, to thee I say,
And be secur'd from harm.
But if the blind,do lead the blind*
The ditch 1 now do warn.
Wherein you'll fall, I tell you all—* ■
Blind leaders do appear ;
For where's ^the than that doth discern.
The time is drawing hear,
$That I to come to make an end,
i "'And save my frighted sheen ?
llodge from the storm howI ao warn,
And how my flock I'll keep ;
So dtyTkQt fear though danger’s near,
"But keep the type in view,
yknd, like the sheep, you’ll find I'll "keep.
And safely guide you through.
So how crow wise, for fast will rise
^The floods to man unknown;
Because the vears will now draw near
That wonders niust be shown.
Woaders they'll be, they all will see$
Thy wondrous judge will come;
And full as blind ne’T
I see mankind-*
, And that yill wonder him,
How mafi c'an be so blind to see
What letters thou hast sent,
And not dtseern how 1 do warn,
rior know I am thy friend.”
70 TV
*.' Cy%
v A
.* > ,#
■w
< \ LONDON:
PRINTED BY 8. ROUSSEAU, WOOD STREET, SPA FIELDS;
And soldby E. J. Field, No. 2x High Street, St. Giles's, two Doors
from the Angel Inn; E. Carpenter, Meeting-house, Newington
Butts, near the Elephant and Castle ; C. A bbott, East End of Old
Street: Also by W . Symonds, Gandy Lane; and the Miss
E vjeleighs, gt. Sidweirs, Exeter; and "Mr.Child, Stourbridgs,
Worcestershire, >
[Price Two Shillings andSixpence.]
w Digitized by Googl^
