{"name":"Terrible Tractoration","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1806__green___terrible_tractoration.pdf","mytitle":"Terrible Tractoration","mylang":"de"}
THE
MODERN PHILOSOPHER;
OR
TERRIBLE TRACTORATION!
tN FOUR CANTOS,
most respectfully addressed to the royal col-
lege of PHYSICIANS, LONDON.
BY CHRISTOPHER CAUSTICK,
M. D. A.S.S.
BELLOW OF THE ROYAL COLLECE OF PHYSICIANS, ABER-
DEEN, AND HONORARY MEMBER OF NO LESS THAN
NINETEEN VERY LEARNED SOCIETIES.
SECOND AMERICAN EDITION,
REVISED, CORRECTED, AND MUCH ENLARGED
BY THE AUTHOR.
PHILADELPHIA
miM-
FROM THE LORENZO PRESS OF E. BRONSON.
1806.
DISTRICT OF PENJVSYLVJJVIJ, TO WIT:
BE IT REMEMBERED, that on the eleventh day of
(L. S.) June, in the thirtieth year of the independence of the United
States of America, A. D. 1806, Thomas Green Fessenden,
of the said district, hath deposited in this office the title of a book,
the right whereof he claims as author, in the words following', to
wit:
" The Modern Philosopher, or Terrible Tractoration ! in four
cantos, most respectfully addressed to the royal college of phy-
sicians, London. By Christopher Caustick, m. d. a.s.s. Fellow of
the Royal College of Physicians, Aberdeen, and honorary mem-
ber of no less than nineteen very learned societies. Second
American edition, revised, corrected, and much enlarged by the
author."
In conformity to the act of the congress of the United States,
entitled, " An act for the encouragement of learning, by securing
the copies of maps, charts, and books, to the authors and proprietors
of such copies during the times therein mentioned." And also to
the act, entitled " An act supplementary to an act, entitled, " An
act for the encouragement of learning, by securing the copies of
maps, charts, and books, to the authors and proprietors of such
copies during the times therein mentioned, and extending the bene-
fits thereof to the arts of designing, engraving, and etching histo-
rical and other prints."
D.CALDWELL,
Clerk of the district of Pennsylvania.
TO
JOSEPH DENNIE, ESQUIRE,
THE FOLLOWING
POEM
IS INSCRIBED
BY HIS AFFECTIONATE FRIEND
AND HUMBLE SERVANT,
THOMAS GREEN FESSENDEN.
PREFACE
TO THE SECOND AMERICAN EDITION
IN the preface of the publisher of the first American
edition of this work, some statements relative to its origin,
together with a concise biographical sketch of its author,
have been presented to the puhlick. That preface, however,
having been written before my return from England, and
without my knowledge, cannot be supposed to be perfectly
correct in all its particulars ; and though I highly appre-
ciate the friendly motives which appear to have actuated
the publisher in penning it, yet I hope he will pardon mc
if, instead of an advocate, I now appear in firofiria persona
and explain a little more at large the topicks and events
of which he has taken, notice.
Previous to my journey to England, for the purposes
hereafter to be stated, my life had been checkered with
but little variety ; and I shall merely state such prominent
events as may be necessary to account for my having made
my literary debut in the uncommon character of an Ame-
rican author in London.
PREFACE.
My father is a clergyman, who has been settled m
Walpole, in New Hampshire, more than forty years. He
is by no means in affluent circumstances, and I am the
eldest of eight children yet living. I acquired a collegiate
education, and graduated at Dartmouth college in New
Hampshire, in August 1796. The expenses of my educa-
tion were principally defrayed by my own exertions. During
the vacations I eked out my finances by instructing a vil-
lage school, and added sometimes a pittance to my purse
by teaching psalmody a number of evenings in each week,
after having finished my daily avocations as a pedagogue.
In the autumn of the year 1796, I commenced the study
of law at Rutland, in Vermont. After completing my stu-
dies I began business in partnership with Nathaniel Chip-
man, Esq. formerly a senator in congress, and a gentle-
man who is placed by his legal, literary, and scientifick
attainments in the highest rank of American worthies.
While member of the university and student at law, I
often amused myself and perhaps sometimes my friends,
by poetical effusions, many of which were published in the
Laypreacher's Gazette, edited by Joseph Dennie, Esq.
and The Eagle, a newspaper printed at Dartmouth. Some
of these poems I have since published in England, and
they have, likewise, been republished in a work just issued
from the Lorenzo Press of E. Bronson, Esq.
In the spring of the year 1801, I was employed as an
agent for a respectable company, formed in Vermont for
the purpose of securing a patent in London of a new invented
hydraulick machine. This machine was the invention of a
Mr. Langdon (not mine as has been stated by some of my
good friends in this country.) I was likewise a member of
this company, and thus became deeply interested in its
success as one of the principals as well as agent. I was
urged to hurry my departure in consequence of a report in
circulation that certain persons by stealth had made them-
PREFACE.
selves master of the invention, and were determined to
anticipate us in our object of securing a patent in London.
In consequence of this report, the experiments which
were made with this machine were performed in a hasty
manner. The machine itself was complicated with parts
which were of no use, and are not worth a description.
The only principle which gave it any apparent superiority
to the common pump was not stated in the patent speci-
fication. By the aid of this principle, however, which we
shall presently describe, water was raised in a hasty ex-
periment through leaky tin pipes, apparently by suction
or the pressure of the atmosphere alone, forty-two feet
from the surface of the fountain to the bottom of the
cylinders in which the pistons were worked.
From these experiments, it should seem that some new
principle in the laws of hydraulicks was developed ; as
the simple pressure of the atmosphere can never elevate
water to a greater height than thirty-four feet.
But my principal hopes of deriving benefit from this
machine- consisted in its property of drawing water from
a distance through pipes, ascending from the fountain to
the place of delivery on a principle not dissimilar to what
is now in practice in England, and for the application of
which a lucrative patent was obtained by a Mr. Dalby*
I embarked from New York the fifth of May, and arrived
in London, after a tedious passage, the fourth of July. I
waited on Mr. King, then arnbassadour from the United
States, to whom I had letters, and was by him favoured
with a letter to Mr. Nicholson, an eminent philosopher
and chymist, at Soho square. With this gentleman I
had several interviews on the subject of my hydraulick
machine, and from him received an opinion in writing,
stating his unfavourable view of its merits. I likewise
made a number of experiments in London, with a different
result from what I had seen in Vermont.
viii. PREFACE.
In this desperate situation of the adventure, I received
a letter from one of the Vermont company, informing that
there was a deception in the patent That by some ex-
periments made subsequent to my departure for London it
appeared that no water could be raised by Lahgdon's in-
vention higher than by the common pump, unless by a per*
foration in the pipe, which made what the inventor called
an air hole ; and which by him had been kept a secret,
and not mentioned in the patent specification.* This per-
foration, by admitting air into the pipe, lessened the gravity
of the column of water and caused it to rise some feet
higher than it could be forced by the simple pressure of the
atmosphere. I troubled Mr. Nicholson again with this
last principle : he informed me that a similar deception
had been practised on the academicans at Paris, but that
the trick was discovered by the hissing noise made by the
air rushing into the aperture in the pipe.
My next essay Was an attempt to improve on the prin-
ciple last developed, by which a column of water might be
raised higher than it could be carried by the simple pres-
sure of the atmosphere, by admitting air into the pipe to
assist in its ascent. This I shall briefly sketch, and I hope
to make my meaning intelligible without a diagram.
Suppose the simple apparatus of what is commonly
called a suction pump, moved by steam or any other power,
were placed at the top of a pipe leading sixty feet perpendi-
cular height from the fountain and the air exhausted from
the pipe by the operation of its piston. The water would
rise in this pipe thirty-three feet and two-thirds nearly,
leaving a vacuum from the surface of the water thus elevat-
ed in the pipe, to the bottom of the piston. At the height
* This was such a fraud in the inventor, that by every principle
of law and reason the patent was void, and no contract founded on
it could be valid.
PREFACE. i.3t
of thirty feet from the fountain I would have a valve in the
pipe, opening upwards. Immediately above this, a pipe
branching horizontally from the main pipe to what I will
call a second fiumfi box, from which the air would be ex-
hausted by the operation of the piston at the top of the main
pipe. In the top of the second pump box I would likewise
place a small valve opening upwards. This valve should
communicate with a piece of cork or other light wood
appended to the valve by a rod within the box. The air
being exhausted within the machine, the water would rise
and flow into the second pump box, and by floating the
wood, would lift the valve at the top of the box, the air
would rush in, and shutting the valve below, operate by it*
spring or pressure to force the water into the box at the
top of the main pipe.
If the main pipe were continued to a greater perpendi-
cular height from the fountain, suppose ninety feet, by
placing a third pump box, branching pipe and valves simi-
lar to the second and its apparatus as above described, and
an exhaustion made at the top of the pipe, the water would
be raised by renovated pressure of the atmosphere ninety
feet ; and by a succession of similar machinery, to any
height short of that in which the pressure of the atmos-
phere would cease to operate. This invention I proposed
to apply to raising water from deep wells, coal mines, &c.
and in situations where it was necessary to raise water a
great height, but impossible or inconvenient to apply the
machinery of a common lifting or forcing pump.
Having completed a tolerable sketch by way of a dia-
gram of this invention, I consulted Mr. Nicholson, and
some other gentlemen of mechanical skill, respecting its
merits. They all agreed that it was new, ingenious, and
might be in some situations useful ; but thought that the
expense of a patent, which in England is near £\ 20 and
fhe difficulty of obtaining patronage for a new thing,
2
X PREFACE.
though it might be really useful, ought to deter me from
attempting to prosecute my improvement.
I now relinquished all hopes of being able to effect any
thing beneficial to my empldyers or myself by Langdon's
machine, or by any possible modification of any of its
principles, and in August 1801 was preparing to return to
America.
At this juncture, an American introduced himself to me
at my lodgings in the Strand, whom I had never before
seen. He informed me that he was the inventor of a new
and curious machine for grinding corn and other useful
purposes, for which he had obtained a patent. That sir
William Staines, then mayor of London, was at the head
of a company for carrying his patent into effect.—That he
had sold one fourth part of his patent for £500 sterling to
a gentleman who was a great mechanick, a person of
much respectability, a city surveyor, and possessed of a
large property—That he, the inventor, had built a num-
ber of mills in America, and was fully competent to direct,
in every particular, respecting his invention. He produced
the counterpart of his assignment of one fourth part of
his patent, in which £500 was expressed as the considera-
tion of the deed. I found on inquiry that he had married
the daughter of a clergyman, settled in London, and a
person of respectable appearance, and I saw no reason to
disbelieve any of his statements. This adventurer likewise
produced a small model of his machine, which seemed to
be the work of considerable ingenuity. At length, after
some hesitation and inquiry, I was prevailed on to pur-
chase one fourth of the patent, and was sufficiently pu-
nished for my temerity.
The mayor soon took the liberty of seceding from the
concern. The rich partner who was prior to me in the
purchase of a part of the patent, was not exactly so rich, nor
PREFACE. XI
quite so respectable as'' had been represented. The £500
stated to have been paid by him was only a nominal sum to
induce others to purchase. The patentee sold out, and I
found that no ordinary exertions were necessary to prevent
the total failure of the whole scheme. A company of four
persons was now formed to build a machine, on a cheap
scale, on the Thames, which, it was hoped, would display
the principles of the patent, and perform work enough
to requite the expense of construction.
In order to become in some measure competent to ren-
der assistance in this undertaking I set about investigating
the principles on which a machine ought to be built, which
would come within the patent. From the writings of
Smeaton, Ferguson, the Encyclopedia Britannica, and
some other authors who had treated on such branches of
mechanical philosophy as were connected with this subject
compared with experiments, which had been made with a
view to this patent, I was able to develop its principles
and recommended such rules as those concerned have been
taught by experience to adopt. But I found myslf con-
nected with men who despised science, who could not
even comprehend my statements, and who proceeded in
spite of my remonstrances to spoil the machine. After suf-
fering no small degree of vexation, fatigue, and anxiety, I
induced to attempt to make my pen subsidiary to my
support. In the prosecution of this last plan, I published
Terrible Tractoration, and a volume of Original Poems,
both of which met a favourable reception by the publick,
and were recommended by professional criticks.
Those, however, who are best acquainted with me, will
do me the justice to believe, that I never should have
written a work calculated to give the tractors favourable
notice, had I not fully believed in their efficacy. As con-
ductors of animal electricity, and in principle allied to the
Galvanick stimulants, even their modus operandi may be
XU EREFAeE.
in a great measure explained:* and the cases of their hav-
ing performed cures are attested by too many respectable
characters, both in Europe and America, to render it pos-
sible that they should be an illusion. I likewise found that
though by many they were condemned as the offspring of
quackery, their most bitter opponents were generally
men who deserved to be ranked with the Solomons and
Brodums who disgrace the profession of physickf-
Justice requires that I should acknowledge my obliga-
tions to some friends in London, for many materials which
* I am tempted in this place to present the reader with a quota-
tion from Cavallo, which shows that metallick substances have a
powerful effect on animals.
" The principle phenomena of animal electricity, viz. the pro-
perty of being put in motion by a metallick communication between
the nerves and muscles is not peculiar to a few animals, but must
be a property of all ; a law of nature which admits of few excep-
tions, and these of a very doubtful nature. The experiments have
already been tried with a great variety of terrestrial, aerial, and
aquatick animals. The human body, whilst undergoing certain
chirurgical operations on its recently amputated limbs, has been
convulsed by the application of metals. From the ox and the horse
down to the fly, the effects of metallick applications have been re-
peatedly and unequivocally observed, with the same power."
t Many respectable English reviews spoke in favourable terms
of the tractors. I shall here quote the authority of the Anti-Jaco-
bin Review, the reputation of which is so well established that
we cannot suppose it possible that its conductors would give any
thing like quackery the sanction of their authority. In a review
of a satyrical work of one Carry who had written against the trac-
tors, they observe, " with equal avidity, though certainly with but
little knowledge or skill, does our angry satirist fall upon Perkins's
metallick tractors. Much as we detest and reprobate quackery of
every description, we do not feel ourselves authorized to restrain
or suppress the extension of scientifick discovery; and considering
the tractors to be constructed on known philosophical principles,
they do not appear so contemptible as this author affects to represent
them." Anti Jacobin fievitw for April, 1802, p. 399.
PREFACE. Xlii
composed the London edition of the following performance.
The verse, with the exception of about half a dozen stanzas,
is mine, with no other assistance but such as conversation
with those friends afforded me by occasionally supplying
hints and topicks, which I afterwards displayed in rhyme.
Some of the notes were printed with but little alteration
from matter furnished me by correspondents. As many
of these communications, however, are of a personal na-
ture, I do not feel at liberty to divulge the names of their
authors without their consent.
Such was the origin of the English editions of the
following work. I thought it proper briefly to narrate
the circumstances, which led to its publication, in conse-
quence of inaccurate statements, which have been circulated.
The present edition contains nearly double the quantity of
matter published in the last English edition, the satire is
more general, and it is hoped the additional matter will be
thought not inferiour to what has repeatedly obtained
the sanction of British and American professional criticks.
My object has been not only to disclose the follies of phi-
losophy, falsely so called, but to give publicity to such in-
ventions and improvements as are really useful. I have
the highest reason to be satisfied with the reception which
the performance has met in Europe and America from
men of literature and candour. It is true that some piti-
ful attempts have been made to persuade the publick, not
only that this poem, but the immortal work of which
this is an imitation is " gross and nauseous." But such
malignant and sorry criticisms will serve merely to render
their authors ridiculous, and their folly will ever serve as
an antidote to their malevolence.*
* I allude here to a critique upon this poem and Democracy Un-
veiled, written by a pitiful America?! scribbler for Philips's Monthly
Magazine, London, and republished with much ostentation, as the
opinion of British criticks, by an editor of a very contemptible paper
at New York. This man, not contented with abusing my poems,
XIV PREFACE.
In preparing the additional matter I have had no assist-
ance except such as libraries and the conversation of men
of science and literature have afforded. The urbanity of
gentlemen of those descriptions, in this metropolis, and the
readiness with which they have afforded me access to the
sources of intelligence in their possession, will live in my
remembrance and be at all times acknowledged with gra-
titude.
has attacked the immortal works of Butler. He seems not to pos-
sess powers for discriminating between doggrel rhymes and Hudi-
brastick poetry ; for he declares that " to make verses of this kind,"
to wit, like Butler, " is one of tbe lowest orders of intellectual em-
ployments." If we may judge, however, from some specimens of this
critick's own verse, " the lowest order of intellectual employments"
in his hands would be " likely to be lower !
!" But Pope has hit
his case so exactly that we will dismiss him with a quotation from
that writer, whose productions he will doubtless pronounce " gross
and nauseous."
" Some have at first for wits, then poets past,
" Turn'd criticks next, and prov'd plainfools at last."
Philadelphia, June 18, 1806.
INTRODUCTION
TO THE
LONDON EDITION.
THE demand for a second edition of caustick's peti-
tion, within the short period of two months from the
publication of the first, has excited so much vanity in the
author as to induce him to believe that his efforts have not
been altogether unacceptable, and to hope that his objects
may ultimately prove not to have been altogether unaccom-
plished. With such a reward for former exertions, and
such an incitement for future, it will be thought natural
in him to have used his endeavour for a continuance of
publick favour.
The present edition, which contains more than double
the quantity of matter that composed the last, will plead
the virtue of industry, even should the merit of the new
matter not justly lay claim to that indulgence with which
the former was honoured.
Besides enlargement, this edition will be found, especially
in the first canto, to be materially altered.
The aim of the alterations has been to avoid, as much as
the subjects necessarily enlarged upon would admit, every
X\i INTRODUCTION.
sentiment and expression, which would offend the heart of
innocence, or the eye of delicacy. Addressed, as the poem
originally was, to professional men, there was, perhaps,
little cause to complain of too great a licence in this par-
ticular. The circulation of the work proving, however,
to be by no means confined to the medical profession, and
promising to be still less so in future, it has been the
author's study to savour this to the more general palate as
well as to enlarge the scope of its objects.
Of one, among other advantages, which may generally
be derived for the improvement of second editions, viz. the
criticisms of monthly journals, the author is in a great
measure deprived. Two only (the Anlijacobin and Monthly
Register) have yet committed the deeds of Dr. Caustick
to the test of their tremendous ordeal.
The sweet drops of their approbation, which, in their
great clemency, they have allowed him to taste, instead
of the bitter pill which the trembling poet feared might
have been his dose, inculcates a hope of a survival of the
affray, without a broken heart through his own chagrin,
however great his danger of a broken head through the
chagrin of others.
Thus far I had proceeded in remarks, which are applica-
ble to this second edition only, and hesitated some time,
before I resolved on the expedience of pursuing my
observations, and offering something like an explanation of
the motives, which led to the present publication. This
delay has enabled me to mention a third review of the first
edition (by the British Cririck). Like the former two it
has indulged Dr. Caustick with encomiums on his " in-
genious burlesque," his " humorous notes," his " happy
ludicrous compounded rhymes, and many other qualities
to ensure no trifling success in doggrel verse." &c
INTRODUCTION. XVii
To have hoped, by any thing that might be said in this
introduction, to alter the conduct of those, against whom
the animadversions contained in the poem are directed,
would be vain. Others, however, who seek after truth
with more disinterestedness, and with whom truth, when
known, may be subservient to some good effect, may
have their inquiries facilitated by a simple detail of a few
plain facts.
The discovery of Perkinism, and the ascertainment of
its utility in the cure of diseases, have been objects of
the author's most critical and cautious investigation.
This investigation, terminating in a conviction of its great
importance to mankind, and its high claims to a rank
among the choicest blessings to humanity, has placed him
on the alert to watch its progress, and to feel an anxiety
for its success. He has of consequence been roused at
the disgraceful attempts made by the combined energies
of prejudice and self interest to prevent the use, nay,
even the trial, of the efficacy of the metallick tractors.
Opposition, honourable in its views, and fair in its
means, to discoveries of great pretensions, is not only
commendable, but almost indispensably necessary to the
development of truth. Such opposition, like friction to
the diamond, proves its hardness and increases its lustre.
But when, as in the present instance, every avenue to
truth is defended by scorpions, who endeavour to frighten
you back by their hisses, or assail you with their stings,
it cannot be unjustifiable to attempt to clear the passage
by whipping away the reptiles. The author, however,
would not presume to represent that he has accomplished
this task. But, if he has failed in his attempt, he is not
yet discouraged. They have thrown the gauntlet in an
untenable cause, and, as his quiver is yet full of arrows,
he will be justified in shooting folly, malice, and ignorance
3
xviii INTRODUCTION.
whenever they appear in any guise to combine against
this important discovery.
The writer would, however, caution against any
supposition that the whole medical profession, many
of whom are stars of prime magnitude in the hemisphere
of science, are enemies to Perkinism, or would make
use of any unjustifiable means to oppose an improvement
in the art of healing. Indeed, no person can hold the
more honourable part of the profession in higher estima-
tion than the author of the following poem.
A concise sketch of the history of Perkinism, since its
first introduction into this island, will render evident
what has been the nature of the opposition to the metallick
practice, inasmuch as it will show that it resolves itself
into two heads, viz. ridicule and maliciousfalsehood. These,
when called into action even by men- of moderate talent,
who are compelled by interest to extraordinary exertion,
are no impotent engines, employed against the weak,
however inefficient they may prove with men of penetra-
tion and independence.
I shall proceed to the proof of my assertion relative to
the character of the opposition to Perkinism. I shall
draw my facts from the several writers' own acknowledge-
ments and Mr. Perkins's answers ; both of which have
long been the subject of my attentive observation.
At the head of that part of the opposition to be
classed under ridicule, may be mentioned certain pro-
ceedings in the Bath and Bristol infirmaries; the former
under the direction of Dr. Haygarth, a physician of Bath ;
and the latter conducted by Mr. Smith, a surgeon of Bris-
tol. These have been the grand rallying points about
which every minor assailant has taken his stand. But it
is unnecessary to recapitulate them here, as they are suffi-
ciently enlarged upon in the second and third cantos of the
INTRODUCTION. XIX
following poem. Before quitting the subject, however,
I would briefly mention, in addition to what is there stated,
that Dr. Haygarth, who condemns Perkinism on his own
experiments, does not appear to have ever used the trac-
tors a second time on a patient ; and Mr. Smith, whose
virulent observations and necromantick manoeuvres con-
stitute three fourths of Dr. Haygarth's evidence against
the tractors, admits, before he closes his communication,
that he never tried them. This last gentleman candidly
acknowledges that he " played the part of a necromancer,"
in his ridiculous pranks in ridicule of Perkinism.
Next in order comes the writer of the article " per-
kinism" in the Encycloficedia Britannica. How far I am
justified in ranking this attack under the head of ridicule,
will be learnt from the remark of the writer himself, who
says, " to treat this discovery with seriousness would dis-
grace the profession of a scientifick critick." The whole
attack is accordingly a strain of ridicule, invective, mis-
representation, and misquotation, which, in the opinion
of some, has not much honoured the profession of a
" scientifick critick." This writer copies, among others,
the attack of the Monthly Review, which shall next claim
our attention.
None has enjoyed, in a higher degree than the author
of this poem, the effusions of wit which sometimes deco-
rate the pages of the Monthly Review ; but still he regrets
that a journal which might so eminently promote the
cause of literature, should so often sacrifice every thing to
a good joke. They have certainly been very witty at the
expense of the tractors, and I have myself joined in the
laugh, whenever it has appeared to be the object of the
criticks to utter a smart, but not a malicious thing. But
I apprehend that no honestly disposed person has derived
that lasting satisfaction from their " quips and cranks,"
which he would have experienced from a learned and
candid investigation of the merits of Perkinism.
XX INTRODUCTION.
In their last attack on Mr. Perkins, alluding to the. con-
sequences of an unlucky kick, they advise him to avoid the
use of the tractors on horses, and wittily suggest the pro-
priety of his confining their application to bipeds, and
among others would beg to recommend geese to his polite
attention. But whether the gentlemen intend to offer
themselves, or some other bipeds of the same species, but
of less hissing notoriety, as the subject of experiment, they
have not informed us.
But ridicule, as before observed, has not been the only
weapon with which Perkinism has been assailed. False-
hoods, base, wilful, and malicious, have been propagated
with the like benevolent intention of extirpating this intru-
sive practice. 1 say base, wilful, and malicious, because
they carry with them the marks of barbarous design. At
the head of this list should be named a masked writer, who
has found access to the pages of the British Qritick. Surely
there will not be found many, among the more civilized
inhabitants of this kingdom, who will approve of an at-
tempt to brand with infamy those acts in a Perkins,
which immortalized a Howard. But such has been the
attempt of the writer in question.
Dr. Elisha Perkins, the inventor of the metallick trac-
tors, and the father of the present proprietor, it is known,
like Howard, sacrificed his life in the cause of humanity.
The latter ended his days with a malignant fever at Cherson,
while visiting the sick and in prison. The former lost his
life with a malignant fever at New York, caught whilst
engaged in the benevolent office of hunting out, and offer-
ing medical assistance to the poor, in their dreary and
distressed habitations, during the rage of that dreadful
scourge, the yellow fever. Both alike left the calm enjoy-
ment of domestick ease in this godlike employment, and
both equally pursued the object with no other expectation,
or wish for reward, than the consolation of relieving the
INTRODUCTION. jjXl
distressed. But it was reserved for the conductors of the
British Critick to offer their pages to a wretch, who could
conjure up an infamous falsehood with a view of casting a
sneer at the philanthropist and covering with disgrace his
benevolent acts.* After such a specimen of the liberality
of the conductors of this journal, with respect to the me-
tallick tractors, it did not surprise me to find, that although
they were so condescending as to grant that this poem had
merit, as an " ingenious burlesque," &c. still they pro-
* Dr. Perkins entertained the opinion that powerful antisceptick
remedies had not been sufficiently tried in that putrid disorder, and
these it was that he was solicitous to put to the experiment. The
particulars of his death were (as appears from Mr. Perkins's corres-
pondence with Messrs. Rivingtons, since published) in possession
of the editors of the British Critick. That journal, however, gravely
asserts in its preface to vol. xx. " it is a curious fact, we have lately
learned, that the American inventor fairly duped himself on the sub-
ject of his tractors. He died, we are told, ofthe yellow fever, with
this useless operation performed on him at the moment." The
atrocity manifested in the invention of this falsehood is equalled only
by the subsequent conduct of the editors, in refusing, when con-
vinced of its injustice, to correct their statement.
After numerous applications on the part of Mr. Perkins, they
dismiss the affair by the following shuffle. Among the addresses to
correspondents in the number for August 1800, is the following.
" Mr. Perkins's letter we have handed over to our correspon-
dent, whom it more immediately concerns." The editors were
cautious to avoid mentioning what Mr. Perkins this was, or the sub-
ject of his letter ! But to close this specimen of the honesty and im-
partiality exercised towards the metallick tractors, the explanation
or vindication ofthis " correspondent" although frequently demanded,
,
has not only never been given, but from that time the tractors were
forbidden to be advertised for sale in that Review, with this pretence,
on the part of the publishers, that they had just come to a deter-
mination of admitting no more advertisements of medicines (the
tractors then are medicines ! /) it is necessary only to add, that soon
afterwards, March 1801, this Review was stuffed, as usual, with the
advertisements of quack medicines. See the numbers of the British
Critick, already mentioned, and Perkins's Cases of Successful Practice,
page 21, second edition, for the particulars of this nefarious attempt.
XXU INTRODUCTION*.
nounced it an empirical puff, and the production of Mr.
Perkins ; and had the knavery also to misquote the title,
by printing it practical, instead of Poetical Petition, &c
The next assailant of Perkinism, of whom I shall take
notice, is Dr. James Anderson. This ingenious gentle-
man condescended to amuse the readers of his Recrew
(ions in Agriculture with the following falsehood, in proof
of the falling reputation of Perkinism. " The price of the
tractors is now reduced to four guineas the set ! I" But
perhaps a gentleman of Dr. Anderson's fertile imagination
and inventive genius ought by no means to be confined
within the boundaries of truth. Had the doctor been
obliged to state useful facts, and probable, theories, merely,
his Recreations might possibly have been published in
a sixpenny pamphlet, instead of the tedious and voluminous
work he has contrived to botch together.
Another assailant of Perkinism is a Mr. Corry. One
would, however, feel little disposition to censure this charac-
ter, as his low situation in life exposes him to tempta-
tions, which, it is to be hoped, he would otherwise resist.
This, however, is no excuse for his employers. In a book
against quackery, he attacks the tractors most furiously,
and in support of his opinion of their inutility adduces a
statement of a number of experiments, purporting to have
been made by one Mr. Wilkinson, at Avondale, near Strat-
ford upon Avon. Mr. Perkins has been at the trouble to
ascertain the correctness of this statement, and has found
that neither the said Wilkinson nor Avondale ever had
existence ! ! In short, the whole is a fabrication.
I have to mention only one more of these gentlemen
assailants. The late lord Henniker was a friend and
promoter of the metallick tractors. He purchased at dif-
ferent periods, during three years, three sets for the use of
his own family. Being a fellow of the royal society, and
INTRODUCTION. Xxiii
considered a gentleman of superiour judgment and talents,
the zeal with which he supported them, it may well be
imagined, gave pain to many. Accordingly, at the death
of that nobleman, some person conceived the idea of obli-
terating from the mind of the publick any impression
which might have existed in favour of the metallick prac-
tice, in consequence of his patronage ; and for that pur-
pose the following paragraph was inserted in a biographical
sketch of lord Henniker, in the Monthly Register, for
April 1803.
1
No one sooner adopted a prejudice, but no one more
readily submitted it to that test, which suited it, and upon
no one had an original prejudice less effect in dazzling a
subsequent judgment. The numerous testimonies in
favour of a celebrated nostrum induced his lordship to
become a purchaser. Having obtained it, he immedi-
ately put it to the proof, and discovered its absolute in-
efficacy. His lordship immediately returned the nostrum,
with a pecuniary present to its inventor. " You will con-
sider as your own what I have already paid for your
tractors. Employ the enclosed notes to embark in some
more honest business, and no longer impose on the cre-
dulity of the publick."
From another letter in the Monthly Register of the suc-
ceeding month (May) it appears there never occurred
between lord Henniker and Mr. Perkins any circumstance
which could give the least colour for such a representation.
To the time of his death he remained a firm advocate of
Perkinism.
Two more assailants might be mentioned, but their
deeds are already alluded to in the fourth canto of the
poem.
Xxi\' INTRODUCTION.
I have now mentioned every fiubllck writer of whom I
have a knowledge, against Perkinism, and given a speci-
men of their arguments. The more private opposers, who
employ that unruly member, the tongue, are a hundred
fold more numerous, and not less malicious.
After this exhibition of the spirit which has influenced
the opposition to the metallick tractors in Great Britain,
can there be found one honest man who will say that they
have met with such treatment, as ought to have been ex-
pected from a liberal and enlightened profession ; or that
the author of the present poem has commenced an un-
provoked attack on honourable and deserving characters ?
Perkinism is supported by no mean and common preten-
sions. Five years has it bufletted the storm of interest
and prejudice, and all true friends to humanity, acquaint-
ed with its merits, will congratulate each other on the
result.
The two following facts will place the evidence in favour
of this discovery in a fair point of view.
Not an individual of those persons, who have communi-
cated their experiments and remarks in favour of Perkin-
ism (among whom are eight professors in four different
universities, twenty-one regular physicians, nineteen sur-
geons, and thirty clergymen) has publickly or privately,
so far as my knowledge extends, retracted his good opinion
of the metallick tractors.
2. The contest respecting the merits of the tractors has
lain entirely between disinterested persons who have ap-
proved of them, after a cautious and faithful experiment
(Mr. Perkins never published any facts on his own autho-
rity) and interested or prejudiced persons, who have con-
demned them without any trial whatever, generally indeed
who have never seen them. This fact is demonstrated
INTRODUCTION. XXV
by the report of the committee of the Perkinean society
to their general meeting, conveying the result of their
application, indiscriminately made to the possessors of the
tractors in the metropolis, for their concurrence in the
establishment of a publick institution, for the use of them
on the poor. It was found that only five out of above a
hundred objected to subscribe, on acccount of their want
of confidence in the elficacy of the practice, and these, the
committee observes, there is reason to believe, never gave
them a fair trial, probably never used them in more than
one case, and that perhaps a case in which the tractors
have never been recommended as serviceable. Purcha-
sers of the tractors would be among the last to approve
of them, if they had reason to suppose themselves defrauded
of five guineas.
I am now willing to express a confidence that the candid
and unbiassed reader will be persuaded that the author has
been engaged in a cause not unworthy of his best exer-
tions ; and that every real friend to humanity and useful
science will wish him success.
It remains to speak of the plan and design of the poem.
The author's ambition has been to produce an original
performance, and avoid all " servile trick" and " imitative
knack" of ordinary dealers in rhyme. He would rather in-
troduce indefensible eccentricities, and run the hazard of
the lash of the critick, than to " threat his reader, not in
vain, with sleep."
Although the attacks upon the metallick tractors are
the principal subject of the following poem, still the author
has painted
" every idle thing
That Fancy finds in her excursive flight
;'
4
XXVI INTRODUCTION.
and he is sorry to say that our modern philosophers furnish
such a multitude of " idle things," which they call disco-
veries and inventions, that he need never lay his brush
aside for want of proper subjects uj on which to exercise
skill in his vocation. Were the mere inutility of their
researches the only objection which could be urged against
them, they might be permitted to follow their frivolous
pursuits without molestation. But when, in addition to
inutility, their experiments are accompanied with the
grossest inhumanity, the indignation of the reflecting mind
is roused at so wanton a misapplication of time, and pros-
titution of talent. It has given the writer no small satis-
faction to find the opinion entertained by professional
criticks, who have examined the former editions, that " the
attack on some of the cruel and indecent experiments of
certain modern naturalists, which seem limited to the
gratification of a licentious curiosity, having for their
object the attainment of no one practical good, is just and
commendable. The author has not merely rhyme, but
very frequently reason on his side in his satirical remarks."
(Antijacobin Review of April, 1803, on the first edition of
this fioem.)
In the present edition, another variety of this species
of philosophers has received some attention, although not
fully equal to what their demerits require. These are
they whose atheistical theories and speculations appear to
have no other object than to annihilate a belief in an over-
ruling Providence, and cancel every religious and moral
obligation.
In this department I have dwelt upon the theories of an
author (Dr. Darwin) whose
" Sweet tetrandrian monogynian strains
Pant for a pistil in botanick pains ;
On the luxurious lap of Flora thrown,
On beds of yielding vegetable down
,
INTRODUCTION- XX*H
Raise lust in pinks ; and with unhallowed fire
Bid the soft virgin-violet expire ;"
and whose writings have a direct tendency to unhinge so-
ciety, and reduce mankind to a state of nature, by giving
a loose to those passions, which of all others require re-
straint.
It is to me a most surprising, as well as lamentable cir-
cumstance, that fiure intellect has so little to do with the
affairs of mankind. Whim, folly, and fashion, predominate
most deplorably even in this (which we pretend to style an
enlightened) age. The man who discovers an extra joint in
the tail of a tadpole is immortalized for the discovery ; whilst
he who gives relief to thousands, languishing on the bed of
sickness, is to be sure an empirick, and unworthy of
countenance and protection.
A bad head generally indicates a bad heart. Afool, nine
times in ten, to the extent of his abilities, is a knave.
And it is happy for mankind that knaves commonly are
fools, and generally too cunning for their own interest
Thus it has happened with many of the opponents to the
tractors. Gross palpable lies, which were easily detected,
have been circulated to disparage Perkinism. The detec-
tion of those lies has served as an advertisement in its fa-
vour, and evinced the motives of its adversaries. It is
wisely ordained by Providence, for the good of society,
that knaves should be permitted to overreach themselves.
Although many things, which I have enlarged upon in
this performance, are intended to be stigmatized, others
are introduced merely for the purpose of laughing with,
but not laughing at, the inventors.
The experiments of Aldini, as well as those of certain
learned and respectable chy mists, the discerning reader
will perceive, from the manner in which they are treated,
XXViii INTRODUCTION.
that I have introduced merely for the purpose of giving
them publicity, and thus promoting the interest of science.
Indeed, it would be very ill judged in the author to
discourage Galvanick experiments, when not attended
with inhumanity. Every advance in that science is a
step nearer the top of the eminence on which Perkinism
rests. I am not, however, very sanguine that Perkinism
is likely to derive that immediate support from the step-
by-step progress which Galvanism is making, that one
would, on the first reflection, be led to imagine. I fear
the medical profession will fail to support Galvanism the
moment it is attempted to be applied to any useful pur-
pose, that is, to an easy and cheap mode of curing dis-
eases ; for then it will become identified with the other
offending practice. Perkins and Aldini I conceive go hand
in hand ; but the former cures diseases (ay, there's the
rub) and thereby encroaches on the province of the fa-
culty ; and, I apprehend, it will continue to be the pro-
vince of too many of the medical profession to condemn
the American, while they bend the knee to the Italian.
In the third canto, entitled manifesto, the author,
has discussed the merits of every argument, which, to
his knowledge, has been adduced against the tractors.
Their ridiculousness, like that of some of our Bond-street
fops, is almost beyond the reach of caricature. For in-
stance, when we perceive Dr. Haygarth attempting to
persuade the publick that the tractors cure diseases by
operating on the imagination of the patient, although every
possessor of them may have daily proof that infants and
brute animals are as much subject to their power as the
most credulous ; and when incontestable proof is adduced
by Mr. Perkins of their efficacy on those subjects, we see
the doctor attempt to show that, in those cases, " it is not
the patient, but the observer, who is deceived by his own
imagination"—when we next find that Dr. H. and his
INTRODUCTION. XXIX
adherents, whose duty it is to cure diseases in the most
safe, cheap-, and expeditious manner, anathematize the
tractors, because they cure diseases (as they pretend to
suppose) by an operation on the imagination (a pleasant
remedy 1)—when they exclaim against the tractors, and
assert that no confidence is to be placed in their effects,
because the modus operandi is not explained and demon-
strated, like a mathematical problem, although the mo-
dus operandi of the best and most approved medicines in
the materia medica is even more inexplicable—when we
find it objected to the tractors, that the testimony of those
who support the discovery is not admissible, nor satisfac-
tory, although such testimony is, in every sense, prefer-
able to that on the other side of the question, inasmuch as
it is from learned and disinterested men, many of them
MEDICAL CHARACTERS, RETIRED ON THEIR FORTUNES
from business—it is difficult to show the ridiculous con-
duct of the party opposed to Perkinism, in a more con-
spicuous manner, than by presenting a simple relation of
facts. The author has merely endeavoured to give a lu-
dicrous turn to such nonsensical arguments, and, by thus
placing them in their just light, show them to be ridicu-
lous as well as foolish.
In the fourth canto, after exhibiting some specimens of
pure and unadulterated quackery, together with some
other curious traits of character, the poet has plunged
headlong and headstrong into a battle, which is intended
for the entertainment merely of your stout hearted, roast-
beef readers, who feast upon terrible images and horrour-
fraught descriptions. Ladies and ladies' men, and all other
delicate, timid, and gentle readers, are respectfully in-
formed, that they will do well not to venture too incau-
tiously upon the terrifick scenes there introduced.
Should it be objected against this poem, that the author is
unnecessarily severe on some occasions, I shall reply, in
XXX INTRODUCTION.
addition to what has been before observed, respecting the
provocations given, that he has founded his severity upon
facts, and if he has nothing extenuated, he has set
down nought in malice. Were men of real science to
unite in stripping the mask from ignorant and impudent
pretenders to knowledge and acquirements which they
do not possess, society would no longer be imposed on
by empiricks, pseudo-philosophers, poetasters, and other
witlings, who puff themselves into consequence with the
less enlightened, but more numerous part of mankind.
If, by attacking some of that kind of scribblers, exposing
to ridicule and contempt their whimsical and impracticable
theories and speculations, and supporting a discovery,
which (although it has been treated with unmerited oblo-
quy) experience has proved to be useful, the author has
been of service to society, and contributed his mite to
the treasury of correct literature, his most ardent wishes
and expectations will be amply gratified.
The following lines, relating to the excellent institu-
tion, so frequently mentibned in this poem, the author con-
ceives may be copied here, not improperly, as a conclusion
to this introduction.
An address delivered before the Perkinean society, at
their publick dinner, at the Crown and Anchor, July 15,
1803, in celebration of the opening of the charity in
Frith street, Soho, for the use of the metallick trac-
tors, in disorders of the poor : by a friend to the in-
stitution.
Say, " sons of soul," when erst th* Omniscient plan
Design'd this globe the tenement of man,
INTRODUCTION. XXX
What " firm, immutable, immortal laws,
Inpress'd on nature by the great first cause ;"
Bacie jaring atoms form one beauteous whole,
Fitted to order's durable control ?
sages or science, eagle-ey'd, disclose,
What aptitudes and appetencies those,
Which world with world connect in one vast chain,
Cause and effect, a never ending train ?
Can ye unfold what energies control
The magnet, faithful to its kindred pole ;
Or vender plain the philosophick why
Th' electrick fluid fires the cloud-roof'd sky ?
Meek they reply ;
" these causes mock the ken
Of human intellect. Short-sighted men,
With finite views, as well might hope to trace
Infinity> and fathom boundless space ;
With finite views, explain the links which bind
The world of matter to the world of mind.
Not Newton's self could look all nature through,
His, though a wide, was still a pavtial view.
Experience teaches, from effects alone,
The works of Deity in part are known.
As time rolls on, with raptur'd eye, behold,
The laws of nature constantly unfold !
Behold Galvani's vivid, viewless flame,
Bids mimick life resuscitate the frame
Of man deceas'd ; —the vital lamp to burn,
With transitory glow, in death's cold urn.
See pointed metals, blest with power t' appease,
The ruthless rage of merciless disease,
O'er the frail part a subtil fluid pour,
Drench'd with invisible Galvanick shower,
Till the arthritick staff and " crutch forego,
And leap exulting like the bounding roe !"
XXXli INTRODUCTION-
What, though the causes may not be explain'd,
Since these effects are duly ascertain'd,
Let not self interest, prejudice, or pride,
Induce mankind to set the means aside :
Means, which, though simple, are by Heaven design'd,
To alleviate the woes of human kind ;
Life's darkest scenes with radiant light to cheer,
Wipe from the cheek of agony the tear.
Blest be his memory, who, in happy hour,
Gave to humanity this wondrous power ;
Friend to the wretched, time shall write thy name,
A second Howard, on the rolls of Fame
When late the fiend of Pestilence could boast
His power resistless o'er the western coast,
Poison'd the air with fell mephitick breath,
Gave countless thousands to the realms of death
;
•
Unmov'd by fear, though relatives implore,
Mov'd by no claim, save pity for the poor,
Thou didst, humane, with goodlike aim essay,
By med'cine's power, his fury to allay ;
But soon Columbia mourn'd a Perkins' doom,
Which swell'd the triumph of the sateless tomb.
Ye worthy, honour'd, philanthropick few,
The Muse shall weave her brightest wreaths for you,
Who, in humanity's bland cause, unite,
Nor heed the shafts by interest aim'd, or spite ;
Like the great Pattern of Benevolence,
Hygeia's blessings to the poor dispense ;
And, though oppos'd by folly's servile brood.
Enjoy the luxury of doing good.
CANTO I.
OURSELF
!
ARGUMENT.
Great Doctor Caustick is a sage
Whose merit gilds this iron age,
And who deserves, as you'll discover,
When you have conn'd this canto over,
For grand discoveries and inventions,
A dozen peerages and pensions ;
But, having met with rubs and breakers,
From Perkins' metal mischief makers ;
With but three halfpence in his pocket,
In verses blazing like sky rocket,
He first sets forth in this petition
His high deserts but low condition.
FROM garret high, with cobwebs hung,
The poorest wight that ever sung,
Most gentle Sirs, I come before ye,
To tell a lamentable story.
2 MODERN PHILOSOTHER.
What makes my sorry case the sadder,
I once stood high on Fortune's ladder;
1
From whence contrive the fickle jilt did,
That your petitioner should be tilted.
And soon th' unconscionable flirt,
Will tread me fairly in the dirt,
Unless, perchance, these pithy lays
Procure mepence as well as praise.
Already doom'd to hard quill-driving,
'Gainst spectred poverty still striving,
When e'er I doze, from vigils pale,
Dame Fancy locks me fast in jail.
Necessity, though I am no wit,
Compels me now to turn a poet
;
Not born, but made, by transmutation,
And chymick process, call'd
—
starvation
1
I once stood high on Fortune's ladder.
Although Dame Fortuna was, by ancient" mycolo-
gists, represented as a whimsical being, cutting her capers
on the periphery of a large wheel, I am justified in accom-
modating her goddesship with a ladder, by virtue of a
figure in rhetorick called Poetica Licentia, (anglicc)
poets' licentiousness.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
Though poet's trade, of all that I know,
Requires the least of ready rhino
;
I find a deficit of cash is
An obstacle to cutting dashes.
For gods and goddesses, who traffick
In cantos, odes, and lays seraphick,
Who erst Arcadian whistle blew sharp,
Or now attune Apollo's jews-harp,
Have sworn they will not loan me, gratis,
Their jingling sing-song apparatus,
Nor teach me how, nor where to chime in
My tintinabulum of rhyming.2
What then occurs ? A lucky hit
—
I've found a substitute for wit;
On Homer's pinions mounting high,
I'll drink Pierian puddle dry. 3
2
My tintinabulum of rhyming.
" The clock-work tintinabulum of rhyme." Cowper.
3 I'll drink Pierian puddle dry.
Pursuant to Mr. Pope's advice ;
'• Drink deep, or taste not the Pierian spring."
MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
Beddocs (bless the good doctor) has
Sent me a bag full of his gas,4
4 Sent me a bag full of his gas.
This wondrous soul-transporting modification of matter
is christened by chymists gaseous oxyd of nitrogen, and,
as will be evident, from the following sublime stanzas,
and my judicious comments thereon (in which I hold the
microscope of criticism to those my peculiar beauties which
are not visible to the naked eye of common sense) is a sub-
ject worthy the serious attention of the poet and physiolo-
gist.
Any " half-formed witling," as Pope says (Essay on Cri-
ticism) " may hammer crude conceptions into a sort of
measured nonsense, vulgarly called prose bewitched."
But the daring mortal, who aspires to " build with lofty
rhyme" an Mvi Monumentum, before he sets about the
mighty enterprise, must be filled with a sort of incompre-
hensible quiddam of divine inflation. Then, if he can keep
clear of Bedlam, and be allowed the use of pen, ink, and
paper, every line he scribbles, and every phrase he utters,
will be a miracle of sublimity. Thus one Miss Sibyl re-
mained stupid as a barber's block, till overpowered by the
overbearing influence of Phebus. But when
-ea frsena furenti
Concutit, et stimulos sub pectore vertit Apollo,
the frantick gipsy muttered responses at once sublime,
prophetick, and unintelligible.
Indeed, this furor mentis., so necessary an ingredient
the composition of the genuine poet, sometimes terminates
in
MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
Which, snuff'd the nose up, makes wit brighter,
And eke a dunce an airy writer.
in real madness, as was unfortunately the case with Collins
and Smart : Swift, Johnson, and Cowper, were not without
dismal apprehensions of a similar fate. The wight, there-
fore, who wishes to secure to himself a sublunary immor-
tality by dint of poetizing, and happens not to be fioeta
nascitur, must, like Doctor Caustick, in the present in-
stance, seek a sort of cow-pock-like substitute for that
legitimate rabies, which characterizes the true sons of
Apollo.
Although my own experiments with Dr. Beddoes's sub-
limating gas would not Avarrant me in pronouncing it
superiour to the genuine, fresh-imported waters of Helicon,
still I have no doubt but a person possessed, as Dr. Darwin
expresses it, of a " temperament of increased irritability,"
or, as Dr. Brown would have it, whose animal machine
was accommodated with ;
a smaller quantity of " excita-
bility," might receive astonishing benefits from the stimulus
of this gaseous oxyd of nitrogen.
Mature deliberation and sedulous investigation of this
important subject have led me to conclude, that the bene-
fits which result from inhaling this gas, have been more
widely diffused than has been generally imagined, and not
at all confined to those persons in whom it produced the
singular effects detailed by Dr. Beddoes, in his ingenious
pamphlet on a certain windy institution, entitled, "Notice,"
he. Most of the sublime speculations of our modern
system-mongers, from Dr. Burnet, who encompassed
the earth with a crust, like the shell of a tortoise, and
which, being unfortunately fractured, produced a Noah's
flood, to Dr. Darwin, with his " omnia e conchis," have
arisen from immoderate potations of this bewildering gas.
6 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
This precious gas, sirs, is the pink
Ofpure philosophy,—the link
With which great metaphysicians bind
To worlds of matter, worlds of mind.
The chymick basis of an ens,
A demi-animus, or mens,
A non-descript, terrene-etherial,
But like some people's souls, material75
5 But like some people's souls material I
That most renowned modern philosopher, metaphysi-
cian, theologian, Sic. See. Joseph Priestley, L. L. D. F. R.S.
and other things,
" Who as the demon of the day decrees
Air, books, and water makes with equal ease,"
Pursuits of Literature.
Who " could reduce all things to acts
And knew their natures by abstracts ;
Where entity and quiddity
The ghosts of defunct bodies fly," Hudibras.
has made many wonderful discoveries in the world of spi-
rits. From him we learn that " On the whole, the state
of things is now such that it appears to be absolutely neces-
sary to abandon the notion of a soul, if we would retain Chris-
tianity at all. And happily the principles of it are as re-
pugnant to that notion as those of any modern philosophy."
Disquisitions relating to Matter and Spirit. Preface to
the second edition, p. xxx. Again he informs us (idem,
p. 99) « It will also, I think, be difficult to account for the
MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
A mongrel sort of mind, created
From matter, erst oxygenated
;
Brew'd while the elements were sparring
In chaos-quakes of Doctor Darwin. 6
separation of the soul from the body after death, unless the
spiritual substance be supposed to be a proper constituent
part of the solid mass which, like Jixed air in bodies, is set
loose when the rest of the mass is dissolved, by putrefac-
tion, or otherwise. If putrefaction or total dissolution be
the physical cause of this separation, is there not a good
foundation for the practice of the Egyptians, who pre-
served the bodies of their friends as long as they possibly
could, probably with a view of retaining their souls in Uiem
or near them ?" ! ! !
This scheme of Doctor Priestley, however, which evolves
souls from bodies, while the process of putrefaction is
carrying on, although it is undoubtedly very ingenious, is,
we are sorry to say, not very savounj, and we are not a
little apprehensive that some wag will call it a stinking
theory.
6 In chaos-quakes of Doctor Darwin.
" We can have no idea" says this sage of sages, "ofa natu-
ral power, which could project a sun out of chaos, except by
comparing it to the explosion of earthquakes, owing to the
sudden evolution of aqueous, or of other more elastick va-
pours ; of the power of which, under immeasurable degrees
of heat and compression, we are yet ignorant." Botanick
Garden, Canto I. Now there can be no doubt but this
same gas was manufactured in prodigious quantities, by
the agency of " elastick vapours" and ' immeasurable de-
grees of heat," and the explosions and combustions so poe-
8 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
That vital principle, which one
Prometheus plundered from the sun. 7
It forms the intellect, or nous
Of man, of mammoth, or of mouse.
As animals (so Darwin said)
In Nile's organick mud were bred, 8
tically and philosophically described by Doctor Darwin as
giving origin to the universe.
7 Prometheus plundered from the sun.
Prometheus the son of Iapetus and brother of Atlas
formed men of earth and water, and then stole from
Apollo this very gas, or something very like it, for their
principle of animation. (See Ovid's Metamorphoses.) Ju-
piter behaved very shabbily on the occasion, and, instead
of rewarding him for his ingenuity, commanded Vulcan
to bind him to Mount Caucasus with iron chains, and em-
ployed a vulture to prey upon his liver. Dr. Swift, who
appears to have been as well acquainted with the court
history, and green room anecdotes of the gods of those
times as Ovid, or any of his predecessors, gives an account
of the management of the arch thief on this occasion.
Intelligencer, No. 14.
8
In Nile's organick mud were bred.
" Creative Nile, as taught in ancient song
So charmed to life his animated throng
;
O'er his wide realms the slow subsiding flood
Left the rich treasures of organick mud)
Bird, beast, and reptile spring from sudden birth,
Raise their new forms, half animal, half earth,
MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
But rose each generation, one key
To Adam, who was but a monkey ;
9
The roaring lion shakes his tawny mane,
His struggling limbs still rooted in the plain,
With flapping wings assurgent eagles toil
To rend their talons from the adhesive soil I
The impatient serpent lifts his crested head,
And drags his train, unfinished from the bed.
—
As warmth and moisture blend their magick spells,
And brood with mingling wings, the slimy dells." Sec
The Temple of Ar
ature, Canto I.
" In eodem corpore ssepe
Altera pars vivit ; rudis est pars altera tellus
Quippe ubi temperiem sumpsere humorque calorque,
Concipiunt ; et ab his oriuntur, cuncta duobus."
Ovid. Met. lid. i. 403.
9 To Adam, who was but a monkey.
Lord Monboddo says, however, that our common pro-
genitor was an oran outan, and congratulates the human
race on his being a sort of an animal somewhat more ele-
vated than the ape or monkey. However, the specifick
difference between all these animals, of the Simia species,
and man, is acknowledged to be so trifling that we shall
make them synonimous ; or at least take that liberty when
it becomes convenient for the better manufacturing of our
metre. For this we have a notable precedent in Butler.
" A squire he had, whose name was Ralph,
That in adventures went his half,
Though writers, for more stately tone,
Do call him Ralpho, 'tis all one :
And when Ave can with metre safe
Will call him so, if not plain Raph."
C
10 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
So Beddoes' gas, Sirs, I'm inclin'd
To think we'll burnish into mind,
By dint of chymical gradations
And Doctor Darwin's fine nitrations.
,0
And our philosophers will learn,
From timber such as this, to turn,
In this good age of grand inventions;
Souls of all sizes and dimensions.
This serves small poets for a shift,
Gives lagging lays a lubber lift,
Forms episodes and other tackling,
And sets your Florence geese a cackling. "
10 And Doctor Darwin's fine nitrations.
" The story from Ovid," says Doctor Darwin, " of the
production of animals from the mud of the Nile, seems
to be of Egyptian origin, and is probably a poetical account
of the opinions of the magi, or priests of that country ;
showing that the simplest animations were spontaneously
produced like chymical combinations; but were distin-
guished from the latter by their perpetual improvement
by the power of reproduction, first by solitary, and then
by sexual generation ; whereas the products of natural
chymistry are only enlarged by accretion, or purified, by
Jiltration."
11
And set your Florence geese a cackling.
This epithet the author of the Pursuits of Literature has
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 11
With this a brother bard, inflated,
Was so stupendously elated,
He tower'd, like Garnerin's balloon,
Nor stopp'd, like half wits, at the moon :
But scarce had breath'd three times before he
Was hous'd in heaven's high upper story,
l2
Where mortals none but poets enter,
Above where Mah'met's ass dar'd venture.
Strange things he saw, and those who know him
Have said that, in his Epick Poem, '
3
had the hardihood to bestow on the sublime writers in the
British Album, to wit, Delia Crusca, Anna Matilda & Co.
'2 Was hous'd in heaven's high upper story.
Brother Soitfhey then made the important discovery
that " the atmosphere of the highest of all possible hea-
vens was composed of this gas."
Beddoes's JVbtice.
3 Have said that, in his Epick Poem.
The same poem to which the gentleman alludes in his
huge quarto edition of Joan of Arc, in the words following
« Liberal-criticism I shall attend to, and I hope to profit
by, in the execution of my Madoc, an epick poem on
the discovery of America, by that prince, on which I
am now engaged."
As liberal criticism appears to be a great desideratum with
this sublime poet, I trust he will gratefully acknowledge the
12 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
To be complete within a year hence,
They'll make a terrible appearance.
And now, to set my verses going,
Like " Joan of Arc " sublimely flowing,
I'll follow Southey's bold example,
And snuff a sconce full, for a sample.
Good Sir, enough ! enough already !
No more, for Heaven's sake ! —steady ! —steady !
Confound your stuff! —why how you sweat me !
I'd rather swallow all mount Etna
!
How swiftly turns this giddy world round,
Like tortur'd top, by truant twirl'd round
;
While Nature's capers wild amaze me,
The beldam's crack 'd or Caustick crazy !
I4
specimens of my liberality towards a worthy brother, which
I propose hereafter to exhibit.
' The beldam's crack'd or Caustick crazy.
Or, it is possible, may it please your worships, that I—
I for the matter of that am a little te—te—tipsey, or so
But as there may perhaps be, as it were, now and then,
one of your Right Worshipful Fraternity, who has been
in a similar predicament se—se ipse, I hope I shall receive
your worships' permission to stagger on with a jug full of
gas in my noddle, at least, through a stanza or two.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 13
I'm larger grown from head to tail
Than mammoth, elephant, or whale !
—
Now feel a " tangible extension"
Of semi-infinite dimension !
—'
5
Inflated with supreme intensity,
I fill three quarters of immensity !
Should Phebus come this way, no doubt,
But I could blow his candle out
!
This earth's a little dirty planet,
And I'll no longer help to man it,
But off will flutter, in a tangent,
And make a harum scarum range on't
!
l6
'5 Now feel a " tangible extension"
Of semi-infinite dimension.
Much in the same way was Mr. Davy affected in conse-
quence of respiring this soul-elevating gas. He informs
us, that after having been shut up in a breathing-box for
an hour and a quarter, " A thrilling, extending from the
chest to the extremities, was almost immediately produced.
I felt a tangible extension, highly pleasurable in every
limb ; my visible impressions were dazzling, and appa-
rently magnified." Davy's Researches Chymical and Philo-
aojihical.
16
But off will flutter in a tangent,
And make a harum scarum range on't
!
Mr. Davy's dose had a similar operation. He says, " I
14 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
Stand ye appall 'd ! quake ! quiver ! quail
!
For lo I stride a comet's tail
!
lost all connexion with external things. Trains of vivid
visible images rapidly passed through my mind, and
were connected with words, in such a manner as to pro-
duce perceptions perfectly novel. I existed in a world of
newly connected, and newly modified ideas. I theorized,
I imagined that I made discoveries." [Perhaps if the
learned lecturer were to repeat the dose, he might in reality
hit on something of little less importance than the grand
discoveries of Dr. Caustick ] " When I was awakened
from this semi-delirious trance, by Dr. Kinglake, who took
the bag from my mouth, indignation and pride were the
first feelings produced by the sight of the persons about
me. My motions were enthusiastick and sublime, and for
a minute I walked round the room perfectly regardless
of what was said to me. As I recovered my former state
of mind I felt an inclination to communicate the discoveries
I had made during the experiment. I endeavoured to
recall the ideas : they were feeble and indistinct. One col-
lection of terms, however, presented itself; and with the
most intense belief, and prophetick manner I exclaimed to
Dr. Kinglake, " Nothing exists but thought ; the universe
is composed of impressions, ideas, pleasures, and pains!
!"
Davy's Researches.
My sensations in consequence of respiring this gas were
not precisely the same, though somewhat similar to those
of Mr. Daxy. That gentleman could not " recall the vivid
visible images" which made such « rapid progress through
his mind, and produced perceptions perfectly novel !"
But I have recorded, in the following stanzas, some of the
most important ideas, which passed through my mind, and
am willing to own that pride and indignation were predomi-
nant.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 15
If my deserts you fail t' acknowledge,
I'll drive it plump against your college !
!
But if your Esculapian band
Approach my highness, cap in hand,
And show vast tokens of humility,
I'll treat your world with due civility.
As Doctor Young foretold, right soon
I'll make your earth another moon, 17
7 I'll make your earth another moon.
The idea of the practicability of this stupendous perform-
ance I derived March 28th at the Royal Institution, into
the gallery of which I had the happiness to obtain admi -
sion, by virtue of a borrowed blue ticket. That learned
lecturer was then discoursing on Secondary Planets, Moon,
Satellites, Force of Gravitation, Keplean Laws, &c. In
the course of his observations he alluded to the well known
apprehensions of the hen-hearted Sir Isaac Newton, re-
specting the mischief comets might produce to our earth,
should any of these journeying gentry take it into their
heads to come within the sphere of its attraction.
Whether the humane, polite, and learned Doctor was
impelled to this speculation from perceiving an emotion
like that of terrour and anxiety among the fair part of his
audience, which he was solicitous to dispel, or whether he
has actually discovered some new secret in the laws of
gravitation, evincing that the largest bodies are attracted
most powerfully by the smallest, and that of consequence
one of these huge flaming masses of matter, whose ve-
16 MODERN PHILOSOPHER-
And Phebus then, an arrant ass,
May turn his ponies out to grass.
locity and projectile force are almost incalculable, ought,
in conformity to the said new laws, to take up its resi-
dence among us, and, with all the politeness and agility of
a French dancing master, skip about our puny globe in
company with Miss Luna, are points which, with me re-
main undetermined ; but such certainly were the cheering
hopes his profound speculations led us to entertain.
If we are really to be blessed with another moon from
this source (I should have termed it a sun) it will evi-
dently not be such a changeable jade as our's is at present
;
for, being an entire flame, it will shine with unborrowed
lustre ; so that it will be a matter of no consequence whe-
ther its face or backside is turned towards us. In that
case our new moon, as was judiciously observed by a
Hibernian of my acquaintance, would be of more conse-
quence than even the sun himself, for he shines only in
the day time, when we can see very well without him.
On the whole, after weighing the subject maturely, de-
liberately, and considerately, as its importance requires,
I am disposed to think that we are indebted to the ladies
for this lunanj (not lunatick) speculation of Dr. Young.
This opinion I ground on the excessive sensibility which
that polite lecturer on many occasions shows and most
undoubtedly feels for the fair sex.
Leaving these moot points, however, to be decided by-
more competent judges, I cannot pass over one important
affair which I have just right to exclaim against, as an in-
fringement on my rights as a free-born British subject.
Every proprietor of the Royal Institution has two red
tickets transferable, which admit the possessor into the
lower part, or body of the house, and also one blue ticket,
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 17
But now, alas ! a wicked wag
Has pull'd away the gaseous bag :
From heaven, where thron'd, like Jove I sat,
I'm fall'n ! fall'n ! fall'n ! down, flat ! flat ! flat !
l8
transferable, to take his servants into the gallery. I have
said above that I obtained a seat in the gallery by the aid
of one of these blue tickets. This ticket I borrowed of
Sir Joseph's coachman. Could it be imagined that my
presence should have caused so much alarm, that orderB
should be immediately given that no person should there-
after be admitted by the blue ticket, which orders are in
force to this day ? Knowing that I could not contrive to
possess myself of a red ticket, to admit me among ladies
and gentlemen, this arrangement was intended for my
particular vexation.
Being on good terms with the coachman aforesaid, I have
been allowed to hold this blue ticket in possession, and have
frequently essayed, by virtue thereof, to enter the gal-
lery. But that old Cerberus of a door keeper has ever growl-
ed me back again, with a Gorgon-like aspect which
would have petrified any heart, unless like mine, it were
previously rendered callous by adversity.
Indeed it is apparent, from the conduct of the Managers,
that the whole host of Literati at the Royal Institution
would be more terrified at beholding the meagre phiz of
Doctor Caustick stretched over the front seat of the gal-
lery, to scrutinize their proceedings, than if the cloven
footed fiend should in reality make his personal appearance
in the midst of them.
,8 I'm fall'n! fall'n! fall'n ! down, flat! flat! flat!
See Dryden's Feast of Alexander, where one king Da-
18 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
Thus, as the ancient story goes,
When o'er Avernus flew the crows,
They were so stench'd, in half a minute,
They giddy grew and tumbled in it
:
And thus a blade, who is too handy
To help himself to wine or brandy,
At first gets higher, then gets lower,
Then tumbles dead drunk on the floor
!
Such would have been my sad case, if
I'd taken half another tiff ;
And even now, I cannot swear,
I'm not as mad as a March hare
!
How these confounded gasses serve us !
But Beddoes says that I am nervous,
And that this oxyd gas of nitre
Is bad for such a nervous writer
!
Indeed, Sir, Doctor, very odd it is
That you should deal in such commodities,
rius has a terrible tumble down, beautifully described by
ha f a dozen « fallens." But I think the Persian monarch
did not, after all, fall quite so fat as Doctor Caustick.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 19
Which drive a man beside his wits.
And women to hysterick fits !
*
9
Now, since this wildering gas inflation
Is not the thing for inspiration,
I'll take a glass of cordial gin,
Ere my sad story I begin
;
And then proceed with courage stout,
From " hard-bound brains" to hammer out
My case forlorn, in doleful ditty,
To melt your worships' hearts to pity.
Sirs, I have been in high condition,
A right respectable physician;
And passed, with men of shrewd discerning,
For wight of most prodigious learning ;
For I could quote, with flippant ease,
Grave Galen and Hippocrates,
'5 And women to hysterick fits.
See the lamentable case of the Lady, page 16th of Dr.
Beddoes's pamphlet, who, taking a drop too much of this
panacea, fell into hysterical fits, Sec.
20 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
Brown, Cullen, Sydenham and such men,
Besides a shoal of learned Dutchmen.
ao
In all disorders was so clever,
From toothach, up to yellow fever,
That I by learned men was reckon'd
Don Esculapius the second
!
No case to me was problematick ;
Pains topical or symptomatick,
From aching head, to gouty toes,
The hidden cause I could disclose.
Minute examiner of Nature,
And most sagacious operator,
I could discern, prescribe, apply
And cure 2I
disease in louse's eye. M
20
Besides a shoal of learned Dutchmen.
Boerhaave, Steno, De Graff, Swammerdam, Zimmer-
man, cum multis aim. By the by, gentlemen, this epi-
thet shoal is not always to be taken in a shallow sense •
but
when applied to such deefi fellows, must be considered as
a noun of multitude, as we say a shoal of herrings.
21
discern, prescribe, apply,
And cure- —
My learned friend, Dr. Timothy Triangle perusing the
manuscript of this my pithy petition, discovered that my
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 21
To insect small as e'er one sees
Floating in torrid summer breeze,
description of the modus operandi on the insect as above,
compared with the celebrated " vem, vidi, vici" as a spe-
cimen of fine writing, is superiour in the direct proportion
of four to three ; consequently Dr. Caustick has advanced
one step higher in the climax of sublimity than Julius
Cesar.
22 disease in louse's eye.
I do not pretend that in this, and other acquisitions here-
in stated, I have been so fortunate as to exceed many other
profound geniuses, who have delighted the learned world
with sublime discoveries in the abstruse sciences of insect-
ology, mite-ology, and nothing-ology. Such gentlemen,
for instance, asLeuwenhoek, Reaumur, Swammerdam, and
Monsieur Lyonet. Indeed I have discovered prodigious
curiosities, which escaped the notice of the latter philo-
sopher, in the organization of La Chenille de Saule, or
caterpillar of the willow. The extent of his discoveries
on this insect will be perceived from the following statement
by Adams, in his work on the microscope. " The number
of muscles that our observer (M. Lyonet) has been able
to distinguish is truly astonishing. He found 228 in the
head, 1647 in the body, and 2066 in the intestinal tube,
making in all 3941."
And I might boast that I have felt the feverish pulse
of that invisible family, the Animalcula Infusoria ; and
effected jugular phlebotomy on a sick louse, without sub-
jecting the unhappy insect to the ad unguem operation, at-
tempted by every bungling old woman, in our scholastick
nurseries. In short, gentlemen, in my opinion, I ought
to be placed in the ranks of literature, somewhere within
gun-shot of Linnsus.
22 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
Although to less than nothing verging,
Could give a vomit or a purging.
I had a curious little lancet,
Your worships could not help but fancy it,
By which I show'd, with skill surprising,
The whole art of ^/fez-botoniizing !
—
<
And with it oft inoculated
(At which friend Jenner'll be elated)
Flies, fleas, and gnats, with cow-pock matter,
And not one soul took small-pox a'ter !
—
Could take a microscopick mite,
Invisible to naked sight
;
Ad infinitum, could divide it,
For times unnumbered have I tried it.
With optick glass, of great utility,
Could make the essence of nihility
But I have still further claims to your polite attention
I am an animal, of the Class of Illuminati, the Ord»r of
Authors, the Genus of Poets, and the Sfiecies of Garreteers
which last distinction shows me to be an elevated charac-
ter, and of consequence one who ought to stand high in
your estimation.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 23
To cut a most enormous figure,
As big as St. Paul's church, or bigger !
*3
23 As big as St. Paul's church, or bigger !
I propose, immediately, to open a shop for the manu-
facture of these glasses, provided I can obtain sufficient
credit for that purpose. Then of course Adams. Jones,
and Dolland, must shut up theirs. I shall admit into
partnership with me a friend of mine, who some time
since applied to the Honourable Board of Longitude,
humbly hoping to obtain a premium for having invented
an optical instrument, which would display the wing of a
fly, placed on the top of St. Paul's, and peered at from
the street adjacent, as large as the mainsail of a man of
war.
It is well known that this distinguished, right honoura-
ble body are little less noted than the gentlemen of the
Trinity House, for their discernment in appreciating true
merit, and their liberality in rewarding those artists whose
inventions or discoveries have any connexion with the
improvement of navigation, especially if such artist hap-
pen to be as fioor as he is ingenious. The said Board of
Longitude were so astonishingly liberal in the present in-
stance, that they offered to reward him with no less
than thirty pounds sterling ; and I have no doubt but they
would have paid the whole sum, either, in cash, or accepted
bills of a short date. This, indeed, was a huge sum,
when it is considered that the inventor had laboured, with
unremitting assiduity, in perfecting this instrument no
more than seven years. But his indignant ingenuity
spurned at the sum as trifling and inadequate, and he ac-
cordingly broke his glass before the faces of his noble pa-
trons.
24 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
A soldier in my glass's focus,
i4
Without the aid of hocus pocus,
But notwithstanding the unfortunate iss,ue of this appli-
cation, great men like Dr. Caustick, and my friend afore-
said, have always resources in their own minds, sufficient
to enable them to force their way forward in society. Im-
provements of such magnitude are now introduced in the
mechanism of this instrument, principally by my instru-
mentality, that we should be justified in refusing any re-
ward, as too trivial for our merits, which the united funds
of all Europe could bestow.
I shall only state to your worships a few of the impor-
tant objects to which our astonishing magnifier may be
advantageously applied.
It has been supposed, by some people of little or no re-
search, that persons (very wwlike the gentlemen of the
Trinity House and the honourable Board above mentioned)
have no souls. But by taking a squint at them through
our instrument, which makes nihility visible, you may per-
ceive that each has a soul about the size of a large lob-
ster.
A certain statesman had been thought to possess no ta.
lent*, and to be sure they were not quite visible to the
naked eye ; but, when peered at through our peerless mi-
croscope, this same statesman not only appeared superiour
to Machiavel, as a politician, but his splendid abilities shed
ineffable lustre on all Ins relations I >
This microscope is equally useful in magnifying ser-
vices, which have been rendered to the community Thus
the uncles, aunts, cousins, sisters, brothers, and little
children of the aforesaid statesman, by virtue thereof, seem-
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 25
Briareus-like, terrifick stands,
With fifty heads and hundred hands !
A fish-boat seems a grand flotilla,
To frighten Addington or Billy ;
Appears a dreadful French invasion
T' annihilate the British nation.
Could tell, and never be mistaken,
What future oaks were in an acorn ;
ed to have rendered such services to the community, that
nothing short of the most princely revenues, clerkships of
Pells, &c. &c &c could reward them in proportion to
their deserts, or enable them to support, in a suitable man-
ner, their newly acquired dignity.
24 A soldier in my glass's focus.
Somewhat similar to the microscope described by Mr.
Adams.
" Leuwenhoek discovered in the eyes of the Libellula
12544 triangular lenses, each forming a distinct image of
the object placed before it. On turning your eye towards
a soldier, by the aid of the mirrour of the microscope,
you will have an army of pigmies, performing every
motion in the same instant of time."
Adams on the Microscope, p. 339.
My improvement of the glasses renders each " of these
pigmies" as big as a Polyphemus.
E
26 MODERN PHILOSOPHER
And even calculate, at pleasure,
The cubick inches they would measure.
Scotland could never boast a wight,
Could match ourself at second sight.
* 5
Nor Wales a wizard, who so well
Could destiny's decrees foretell.
For we'd a precious knack at seeing,
Not only matters not in being,
But ever and anon would still be
Foreseeing things which never will be
—
7 °
7s Could match ourself at second sight.
That your worships may be able to form something like
an idea of the wonderful ken of our mental opticks, it will
be necessary to con with diligence the opinions of Dr.
Johnson on this subject, as expressed in his tour to the
Hebrides. The Doctor there tells us, that though he " never
could advance his curiosity to conviction, yet ho came
away at last, willing to believe." But we would have all
those who anticipate the deriving any advantage from our
slight at second seeing, not only willing, but absolutely
firedetej-mined to " believe," positive evidence to the con-
trary notwithstanding.
26
Foreseeing things which never will be.
Yes, gentlemen; among other great and wonderful
events, which we foretold, but which never have happened,
and moreover never will happen, was the restoration of the
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 27
Discovered worlds within the pale
Of tip-end of a tadpole's tail,
And took possession of the same
In our good friend, Sir Joseph's name
;
27
And soon shall publish, by subscription,
A topographical description
Of worlds aforesaid, which shall go forth
In fooPs cap folio, gilt, and so forth,
—
Could tell how far a careless fly
Might chance to turn this globe awry,
Jews by the intervention of that renowned pacificator, Buo-
naparte. We first prophecied, and many men of our cast
who had a knack at prying into futurity, echoed our pre-
diction, that the pious emperour of the Gauls would make
Jerusalem the head quarters of the Millennium, and under
our auspices many a wandering Jew was recruited, and
stood in readiness to march at a moment's warning to
take possession of his patrimonial property.
2 7 In our good friend, Sir Joseph's name.
This was immensely proper, as I propose colonizing
these hitherto Terra Incognita, and know of no person
in existence, except mijself (who am now decrepit with
age, and, alas, sadly poverty stricken) whose scientifick
qualifications, knowledge of the coast, and well known ar-
dent zeal in the science of Tadpolism, so well entitle hira
to command such an important expedition.
28 MODERN PHILOSOTHER.
If flitting round, in giddy circuit,
With leg or wing, he kick or jerk it !
—
s
Could amputate with ease, I trow,
A puppy's leg
—
in litero ;
29
28
With leg or wing, he kick or jerk it.
Could we command the years of a Nestor, " the indelible
ink" of a Lettsom, and the diligence of a Dutch commen-
tator, we should still readily acknowledge that our powers
were totally inadequate to the task of eulogising, in pro-
portion to their merits, the philosophical and literary per-
formances of that profound sage, Dr. James Anderson,
LLD. FRS. Scotland, &c. &c. &c. &c. whose mysterious
hints afford a clue by which we have been enabled to add
lustre to the present age, by many of our own sublime
discoveries and inventions.
In his deefi work called " Recreations in Agriculture and
Natural History" the Doctor says, among other things
not less marvellous, " The mathematician can demonstrate
with the most decisive certainty, that no Jly can alight on'
this globe which Ave inhabit, without communicating mo-
tion to it ; and he can ascertain, with the most accurate
precision, if so he choose to do" (by the by, this sine qua
-non part of the sentence is very beautiful, and not at all
redundant) " what must be the exact amount of the motion
thus produced." Vol. ii,/?, 350.
2 ? A puppy's leg
—
in utero.
More wonderful matter, perfected from hints of Dr. A. I
After telling the publick how to propagate rabbits with one
ear, which would be no less useful than the renowned
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 29
Have matters comical in tow,
For docking colts in embryo. 3*
And could prepare a puny fry
Of yet unborn homuncali
Gulliver's breed of " naked sheep," the Doctor says, « I
know another instance of a dog, which was brought forth
with three legs only, the fourth being wanting :" (which
last curious circumstance might possibly happen, if it had
three legs only.) " It chanced to be a female ; she has had
several litters of puppies, and among these several indivi-
duals were produced that had the same defect with herself;
but no pains were taken to perpetuate this breed by pairing
them with others of the same kind." To be sure a most
lamentable circumstance ! Vol. i./i. 68.
30 For docking colts in embryo.
Another Andersonianism. " It has been several times,"
says the Doctor, " taken notice of by naturalists, that in
England, where the practice of docking horses very short,
for a long time prevailed, the horses naturally produced
havefewer joints in their tails than those of other countries ;
and though I have never heard it noticed, that any were
produced, without having a tail that required to be dock-
ed, yet it may have often happened without being re-
marked ; for as it would not be known, when old, from
one that had been docked, it might pass unobserved."
The Doctor afterwards appears surprised (as well he
might be, at such an extraordinary phenomenon) that
many men, who have lost a leg or an arm have had chil-
dren after the accident, and these, for the most part, free
from any blemish !
!
30 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
To chant the dulcified squeakissimo,
And eke to trill the grand squallissimo.
3I
By bare inspecting, though months a'ter,
A place where patient had made water,
We could divine, with skill unfailing,
Of what disorder he was ailing
!
And you'll allow, sans hesitation,
On score of vast accommodation,
That few discoveries this can equal,
When you have heard us through the sequel.
For bottled urine has, no doubt,
In publick mails been frank'd about
;
3' And eke to trill the grand squallissimo.
I anticipate the being idolized by amateurs of Italian
operas for this my beautiful invention. Surely it must be
allowed I have herein far exceeded even what my friend
Doctor Anderson would have supposed possible. As soon
as this my invention is made publick (which shall take
place whenever I have by patent, or parliamentary dona-
tion, secured to myself the emoluments thereunto belong-
ing) John Bull may gratify his delicate taste for refined
musick, without the trouble and expense of importing
from Italy those pretty things, whose delicious warblings
compose the soul of true melody.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 31
(A thing there must be mighty trouble in)
To London as it were, from Dublin, 32
That such a man as Doctor Mayersbach,
(Such things took place not many years back) 3 »
31
To London as it were from Dublin.
Contemplate for a moment, gentlemen, the extreme
inconvenience attending the present mode of conveying,
for the purpose of medical scrutiny, the singular con tents
of these bottles, to and fro, from Dan to Beeisheba. Up-
sides, our patients cannot all be Lord Lieutenants of Ii .;-
Jand. They cannot all enjoy the privilege of franking,
per mail, all sorts of commodities ; and unless by parti-
cular act of parliament, allowing bottles of urine, like
stamped almanacks, a free passage per mail, to any part
of his majesty's dominions, I confess I do not see how
Dr. Mayersbach can exercise, so often as could be wished,
his soothsaying sagacity on the precious contents of such
bottles.
33 Such things took place not many years back.
I was at the house of Dr. M. when the postman, besides
the usual budget of letters, brought a huge bottle franked
from Dublin Castle. I have particular satisfaction, how-
ever, in stating, for the information of those ladies and
gentlemen who by the same mail may have received either
love letters, or state letters, that I have no reason to ap-
prehend (as there was no apparent leakage or fissure in
the bottle) that those letters were actually p—d upon.
32 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
Might view this urick oxyd's basis,
,4
And rightly understand the cases.
But I've a plan by which our betters
May make a few drops on their letters
;
35
34 urick oxyd's basis.
I wish it may not be inferred, from my adopting the
term Urick Oxyd, that I propose to take any part in the
controversy between Doctor Pearson and that blustering
Fourcroy ; though I have no hesitation in asserting (in
firivato) that my countryman is right. But I would sub-
mit to any brother poet, who knows that
u Rhyme the rudder is of verses,
" By which, like ships, they steer their courses,"
and who sometimes, like myself, is non-plussed for want
of a proper expression to convey an important idea, whe-
ther there need be any other proof of the existence of the
Urick Oxyd than the genteel gingle thereby introduced in
this my incomparable poem, and the happy opportunity
thereby afforded for mentioning an indelicate matter in
so delicate a manner, that the most delicate person in
existence (myself for instance) may express the thing,
and preserve his, or her cheek, as free from a blush as a
snow-ball. Supposing I had said, " Lithick Acid," as
Scheele and Fourcroy would have had me ; not a soul
would have understood it.
3* May make a few drops on their letters.
You will please, gentlemen, to take particular notice,
that my mode of consecrating e-/u'sf-olary favours intended
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 33
And though it be but " monstrous little,"
I'll tell what ails them to a tittle :
And since I ought, as well as Jenner,
To have some pence to buy a dinner,
I shall solicit cash and thanks
From parl'ment, for preventing franks.
Oft have I quench'd man's vital spark :
" The soul's old cottage," cold and dark,
Again, in spite of Death, our grand ill,
Ilium 'd as one would light a candle. 3<5
the Esculapian fraternity, will effectually preclude the risk,
of any accident happening to a whole mail of letters, many
of which are frequently neatly folded, and addressed to as
modest and delicate persons as any in the kingdom.
36 Illum'd as one would light a candle.
In my younger days I lived on terms of intimacy with
Doctor Franklin, highly honourable to both parties, as it
showed we were both men of discernment in choosing each
a great man for his friend.
In a letter from that venerable sage, afterwards printed
{See Franklin's Works, ft. 115, vol. ii. third edition) he told
me that toads buried in sand, shut up in hollow trees, Sec.
would live forever, as it were ; and, among other things,
informed me of certain curious facts about flies, which I
will relate in his own words. " I have seen an instance of
common flies preserved in a manner somewhat similar.
They had been drowned in Madeira wine, apparently about
f
MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
And we can drown your worships in,
Suppose we say a pipe of gin,
the time when it was bottled in Virginia, to be sent to Lon-
don. At the opening of one of the bottles, at the house
of a friend where I was, three drowned flies fell into the
first glass which was filled. Having heard it remarked
that drowned flies were capable of being revived by the
rays of the sun, I proposed making the experiment upon
these. They were therefore exposed to the sun upon a
sieve, which had been employed to strain them out of the
wine. In less than three hours two of them began by de-
grees to recover life. They commenced by some convul-
sive motions of the thighs, and at length they raised them-
selves upon their legs, wiped their eyes with their fore feet,
beat and brushed their wings, with their hind feet, and
soon after began to fly, finding themselves in Old England,
without knowing how they came thither. The third con-
tinued, lifeless until sun-set, when, losing all hopes of him,
he was thrown away.
" I wish it were possible, from this instance, to invent a
method of embalming drowned persons, in such a man-
ner that they might be recalled to life, at any period,
however distant ;
for having a very ardent desire to see and
observe the state of America a hundred years hence, I
should prefer to an ordinary death the being immersed in a
cask of Madeira wine, with a few friends, until that time, then
to be recalled to life by the solar warmth of my dear coun-
try. But since, in all probability, we live in an age too
early, and too near the infancy of science, to see such
an art brought in our time to perfection, I must, for the
present, content myself with the treat which you are
so kind as to promise me, of the resurrection of a fowl
or turkey cock."
Now, if your worships will be so obliging as to make
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 35
And then revive you when you please,
Preserv'd like toads in hollow trees.
And since this is a fact, it follows,
That we can winter you with swallows ;
Therefore, in autumn would not stick
To merge you in a muddy creek. 37
me a present of a cask of Madeira to try the experiment,
I will certainly bury myself therein for a century or two,
and I have no doubt but I shall be awakened with as much
facility as was Endymion, the famous sleeper of antiquity,
who slept seventy years at one nap.
37 To merge you in a muddy creek.
That it is very practicable to pickle swallows in this way
no man can doubt for a moment, who has ever read a cer-
tain article in the Medical Repository of New-York, which
is no other than the testimony of a Mr. Peter Cole, and
goes in this sort. " As I was standing at my door, between
the hours of five and six in the morning, I observed a
very large flock of swallows, flying in an easterly direc-
tion. I immediately repaired to the pond, where there
was already a vast number collected in the reeds and
rushes. They continued coming for nearly the space of
half an hour, and vast numbers of them were flying over
the water in almost every direction. Some of these birds
appeared to run on the surface of the water, with great ra-
pidity, towards the east corner of the pond, and in the
twinkling of an eye disappeared under the water, and rose
no more."
All this the man says he saw with a " spy glass."
Medical Repository, vol. ii. 178.
36 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
But if we cannot well contrive,
To dig your worships out alive,
Will make you into petrifactions,
For our philosophers' transactions. 3*
Now, if your worships, with an optical tube, will trace
with precision the motions of a swallow on the wing, " be-
tween the hours of five and six in the morning" among
" reeds and rushes" and of consequence alternations of
light and shade, we will pronounce you to possess pene-
tration not inferiour to that of Mr. Peter Cole. If, how-
ever, you should be inadequate to this task, we hope you
will willingly submit to our above proposed experiment.
38
For our philosophers' transactions.
I crave the honour, in this place, of introducing to your
worships a set of the most stupendous philosophers (our.
self excepted) that ever decorated human nature. Indeed,
gentlemen, I recommend them to you as samples of that
perfectibility of man, which philosophers have long since
promised, and which we in America are beginning to real-
ize. These are the president and members of the true
AMERICAN PHILOSOPHICAL SOCIETY,
" fama super aethera noti,"
jinglice, pretty well known in Philadelphia,
men, who have in many sublime instances, fallen but little
below us in discovery-making and manufacturing useful
inventions.
Wheresoever these philosophers have beaten the bushes
they have been sure to start and hunt down all the game ;
and not a cranny in and about Dame Nature have these'
gentlemen left unexplored ; all which is very evident from
a glance at their doings, called « Transactions," &c.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 37
We've shown a mode, in Latin thesis,
To pick man's frail machine to pieces,
Now having a most ardent and laudable ambition to twist
ourself into the good graces of these great geniuses, we
have been casting about for ways and means of making
them a present, which may not disgrace our pretensions.
We have sometimes had it in view to manufacture a com-
plete set of Mammoth bones, and likewise to fabricate a
Megalonyx's claw or two ; and making a pompous parade
with our donations, to rival parson Leland with his mam-
moth cheese. But when we came to peruse the fourth
volume of the doings of these gentlemen, we found about
twenty pages, filled with the names of the donors of
certain curiosities, together with their invaluable presents.
Such for instance as " a ball of hair, found in the stomach
of a mule ;" " a stone found in the stomach of a cow ;"
" some petrifactions of wood from Martinique ;" " a pair of
Indian boy's leggings ;" " a specimen of petrified supposed
buff aloe dung;" " skin of an Indian taken from the side;"
&c. 8cc. The perusal of these most instructive and amusing
articles furnished us with a key to the character of this
learned society, of which we shall so far take advantage as
to introduce ourself into the penetralia of their warmest
affections. Instead of Indian hides and petrified buffaloes'
dung, we propose to make them a most magnificent pre-
sent, which will figure in their next volume of doings in
this wise
:
DONOR. PRESENT.
The right worshipful A Royal College of
Christopher Caustick, Petrified Physicians.
"
L.L.D. ASS. Sec. &c. Sec.
Now, I would venture your worships a trifle (to be paid
to your executors in case my experiment succeeds) that
on the receipt of my prodigious present, I shall be elected
38 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
And how the same again to botch,
Just as an artist does a watch !
39
Patron and President of the " True American Philosophi-
cal Society."
3
9 Just as an artist does a watch !
I do not arrogate to myself the whole merit of this no-
ble invention. Dr. Price and Mr. Godwin, in divers elabo-
rate works, especially the latter, in his Political Justice,
suggested some ideas which set my ingenuity in such a
ferment, that I could not rest quietly till I had brewed a
sublime treatise on the best mode of pulling down, repairing
and rebuilding, decayed and worn out animal machines.
I shall not attempt, in this place, to oblige your wor-
ships with any thing like a table of the contents of this ju-
dicious and profound performance. I will, however, gra-
tify your curiosity so far as to glance cursorily at a few of
the leading topicks therein discussed and illustrated, and
slightly mention some of the immense advantages which
will be the result of this discovery.
In the first place, I make it apparent, by a long series of
experiments and scientifick deductions, drawn therefrom,
that it is very practicable to enlighten the mind of a stupid
fellow, by battering, boring, or pulling his body to pieces.
Mr. poet Waller's authority is here to my purpose, who
tells us, that
" The soul's dark cottage batter'd and decay'd,
" Lets in new light through chinks which time has made."
Mr. Gray, likewise, in his Hymn to Adversity, re-
quests that " Daughter of Jove" to impose gently her
iron hand," and trouble him a little with her " torturing
hour," although he appears disposed to avoid, if
possible, her more dismal accompaniments, such as her
Gorgonick frown," and the " funereal cry of horrour."
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 39
Thus brother Ovid said or sung once,
The Gods of old folks could make young ones 4<>
The Spaniards, under Cortes and Pizarro, managed
much in the same way, and enlightened the natives of the
mighty empires of Peru and Mexico in the great truths of
Christianity, by killing a part, reducing the remainder to
a state of servitude, and battering their souls' cottages at
their leisure. This process is in part expressed in a poeti-
cal epistle, which 1 received not long since from my cor-
respondent settled at Terra del Fuego, in South America,
who thus expresses the conduct of some of his acquaint-
ance, in converting the aborigines to Christianity.
Good folks to America came
To curtail old Satan's dominions ;
The natives, the more to their shame,
Stuck fast to their ancient opinions.
Till a method the pious men find,
Which ne'er had occur'd to your dull wits,
Of making sky-lights to the mind,
By boring the body with bullets.
Like Waller, with process so droll,
To illume an old clod-pated noddy ;
They thought they might burnish the soul,
By beating a hole in the body.
I have read of a great mathematician, who was uncom-
monly stupid till about the age of twenty, when he acci-
dentally pitched head first into a deep well, fractured his
scull, and it became necessary to trepan him. After the
operation it was immediately evident that his wit was much
improved, and he soon became a prodigy of intellect.
Whether this alteration Aras caused by « new light let in
40 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
By process, not one whit accuter,
Than making new pots from old pewter
through chinks," the trepanning chissel had made, or
whether the texture and position of the brain were ma-
terially changed for the better, in consequence of the jar
and contusion of the fall, I shall leave to some future
Lavater, or any other gentleman, who can guage the ca-
pacity of a statesman, or a barrel of porter, with equal
facility, to determine.
2d. I proceed to demonstrate, that man being, as our
most enlightened modern philosophers allow, jumbled
together by mere Chance (a blind capricious goddess, who,
half her time, does not know what she is about) it is
extremely easy to understand the principles of his tex-
ture ; because the mechanism of his frame is less intricate
than that of a common spit jack. Consequently, a Solomon
or a Brodum can mend this machine when deranged as
well as a Harvey, a Sydenham, or a Mead.
3d. I proceed to prove, from analogy, with what facility
this machine may be disjointed, pulled to pieces, and
again botched together. My friend Mahomet had his
heart taken out, a drop of black blood expressed there-
from, and went about his common concerns next day as
well as ever. So when a sighing swain is taken despe-
rately in love, he may lose all his insides without any
very serious inconvenience. This I can attest from sad
experience^ as, about forty years since, I was terribly in
for't, with a sweet little sprig of divinity, whose elbow
was ever her most prominent feature, whenever I had
the audacity to attempt to approximate the shrine of her
Goddesship.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 41
So fam'd Alclini, erst in France,
Led dead folks down a country-dance,
4th. The important advantages, which will undoubtedly
arise from this invention, are almost too obvious to require
explanation. I shall, however, advert to a few.
By taking the animal machine to pieces, you may devest
it of such particles as clog its wheels, and render its mo-
tions less perfect. A decayed worn-out gallant may have
its parts separated, thorougly burnished, botched together,
and rendered as bright as a new-coined silver sixpence.
Thus my venerable Piccadilly friend, who, as Darwin ex-
presses it, sometimes " clasps a beauty in Platonick arms ;"
if he should, fifty years hence, perceive that the mechanism
of his frame is rather the worse for wear, may come to
Dr. Caustick, and be rebuilt into as fine a young buck as
any in Christendom.
5th. Hereditary diseases may be thus culled from the
constitution, and gouty and other deleterious particles
separated from those which are sound and healthful.
Pride may be picked from the composition of an upstart
mushroom of a nobleman, impudence from a quack,
knavery from a lawyer, moroseness from a methodist,
testiness from an old bachelor, peevishness from an old
maid ; in short, mankind altered from what they are to
what they ought to be, by a method at once cheap, practi-
cable, easy and expeditious.
The only difficulty which has ever opposed itself to
my carrying this sublime invention to the highest possible
pitch of perfection, has been the almost utter impossi-
bility of procuring any man, woman, or child, who is
willing to become the subject of operation. Now if either
G
42 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
And made them rigadoon and chasse
As well as when alive, I dare say
!
And I once offer'd, very prettily,
To patch up Frenchmen kill'd in Italy,
Though shot, or stabb'd, or hack'd with fell blows,
As wives patch coats when out at elbows !
of your worships woidd loan me his carcase to be picked
to pieces, and again botched together in the manner above
stated, provided the experiment should not fully succeed,
I will engage to pay 'all the damages thereby accruing to
community out of one tenth part of the profits of this
publication.
*' The gods of old folks could make young ones.
Stricto Medea recludit
Ense senis jugulum : veteremque exire cruorem
Passa, replet succis. Quos postquam combibit ./Eson
Aut ore acceptos, aut vulnere barba, comsque
Canitie posita nigrum rapuere colorem.
Pulsa fugit macies.
This passage, with a condensation of thought and
felicity of expression peculiar to myself, I have thus hap-
pily hit into English.
Medea cut the wither'd weasand
Of superannuated iEson,
Then fill'd him with the acrid juices
Of nettle-tops and flower-de-luces ;
Till from the defunct carcase, lo !
Starts a full blooded Bond-Street beau !
!
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 43
Made a machine of monstrous merits,
And brew'd therein a world of spirits, 42
Divine, botanick, human, beastly,
The souls of Darwin and of Priestley. 43
*2
And brew'd therein a world of spirits.
It would be absolutely impossible for us, at full length,
to specify the principles of this our prodigious production
in a performance, which would be less voluminous than
a complete edition of the writings of Dr. Priest-
ley. The data on which we proceeded were derived from
tracts -without number, which treated on the " Phisosophy
of Mind," all of which you will please to peruse at
your leisure. But we will condescend so far as to men-
tion a few works which have served us as a sort of vade
mecum, and have in fact furnished us with the basis of
our superstructure.
Malebranche's Recherches de la Verite ; the works
of Hobbes, Spinosa, and other scepticks in the same
school ; Bishop Berkeley's Principles of Human Know-
ledge ; Hume's Essays ; the works of Lord Bolingbroke ;
Reed's Inquiry into the Human Mind on the Principles of
Common Sense ; Stewart's Elements of the Philosophy
of Mind ; Kaime's Sketches of the History of Man, and
the most metaphysical parts of his " Elements of Cri-
ticism ;" all the writings of Lord Monboddo ; Hartley's
Observations on Man ; Pope's Essay on Man, and John-
son's refutation of the principles which it contains ; Hart's
Metaphysical productions ; Voltaire's Philosophical Dic-
tionary ; the works of Diderot, D'Alembert, and in short
all the productions of the French Encyclopedists ; God-
win's Political Justice ; Belsham's Philosophy of Mind ;
Edwards's work on the Will, &c. &c.
44 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
Our process, Sirs, approaches nigh
To making whiskey out of rye,
Add to these a host of German and Dutch geniuses
whose names we cannot remember, and whose works we
have never 6een.
All these you will please to con over with very vast re-
tention, and when you have thoroughly sifted, amalgamated,
transmuted, decomposed, chymically combined, separated
the phantasms from the substantial forms, the cmidities
from the entities, and extracted the essences of the
matter and spirit of each and every treatise, you will begin
to possess some slight idea of our wonderful invention
abovementioned.
43 The souls of Darwin and of Priestley.
There is a wonderful concurrence in the ideas of great
modern philosophers, which would lead us to believe that
the one actually looked over the shoulder of the other
while in the act of composing his lucubrations. Dr.
Darwin creates animals (see note 8.) much in the same
way that Dr. Priestley produces souls (see note 5.) a putre-
scent process seeming to be most commonly preferred in
both cases. But their efforts, though very wonderful, have
effected little more than merely to pave the way to my
invention. Dr. Darwin was somewhat too desultory in
the application of his means. Sometimes his " Nymphs of
Primeval fire," together with " Love Divine" brooding on
chaos are his sole agents in calling « from the rude abyss
the living world," souls and all. At other times the pu-
trescent process, and « organick mud" are preferred. Dr.
Priestley, however, relics altogether on the mephitick
mode. I have adopted all that is essential in both their
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 45
A sort of spiritual creation,
From matter, put in distillation.
Now, since it is secur'd by patent,
You cannot steal it, Sirs, there's that in't,
Nor serve an honest man as sadly
As did your countryman, one Hadley. 44
contrivances, but have a partiality for the real " organick
mud." But, here I will stop short lest I afford such a clue
to the labyrinth of my invention that you will be able to
make your way into its innermost recesses.
44 As did your countryman, one Hadley.
This man, by dint of diplomatick skill made himself
master of the invention of what is called Hadley's Quadrant.
The instrument was, however, actually invented by a
Philadelphian, whose name was Godfrey. Hadley pro-
fessed himself to be the patron of Godfrey, and proffered
his services for procuring a patent in England ; but very
adroitly made imself principal in the affair, took a patent
in his own name, and deprived the inventor of both the
honour and profit of his invention.
This your worships will allow to have been extremely
well conducted, and in perfect consistency with modern
philosophical principles. Thus both M. De Luc, and La-
voisier, took the liberty to make use of Dr. Black's theory
of latent heat, without any acknowledgment to its author ;
and thus Lavoisier was denounced by his intimate friend
and pupil, a true modern philosopher, decapitated accord-
ingly, and his discoveries and theories claimed by this
grateful disciple.
46 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
The mystick characters of Nature
We read more readily than Lavater, 45
To us her lineaments are labels,
Which stare like capitals on play bills.
From bearins:s of the different osses
In chin, in forehead, and proboscis,
The skull and occiput's topography,
Can write a man's complete biography.
4<i
45 We read more readily than Lavater.
There was one Mr. George Christopher Lichtenberg,
who foretold, with very considerable accuracy, the progress
which physiognomy would make under our auspices.
« When physiognomy arrives at the perfection expected
by Lavater, we shall hang children before they have com-
mitted the crimes which deserve the gallows. There will
every year be a physiognomical Auto da Fe 1 How pro-
voking it is to perceive that Lavater found more in the
noses of some authors, than we can find in their writings I"
« fi
Can write a man's complete biography.
If the truth were known, we are positive that we should
discover that most of the stories told by modern biogra-
phers about deceased personages, were taken from data
somewhat similar to the grounds of our above stated dis-
covery. We would, however, by no means wish your
worships to entertain an idea that Miss Anna Seward wrote
her " Memoirs of the Life of Dr. Darwin" by any rules
which are at all consonant to our science. Had Miss Anna
Seward been in the least degree acquainted with this our
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 47
We've drawn nine million diagrams,
Which wags denominate "flim flams"
method of etching a man's biography (which, in physiog-
nomical nomenclatures, by a word delicately coined from
the Greekand rounded with a most energetick Latin termi-
nation, is denominated metronomocenocephalismaticality)
and in possession of no one document nor the least informa-
tion respecting the great personage, whom she has taken
off in her " Memoirs," she would have given us a much
more correct account of the wonderful philosopher. But
now, alas \ she is most unconscionably handled by the
Edinburgh Reviewers. These anti-chivalrick criticks,
without the least regard to that delicacy towards the fair,
which ought to regulate the strictures of gentlemen, upon
lady-authors, have fallen upon her without mercy, and I
am sorry to say that our Amazon appears not quite im-
pregnable. We will oblige you with a specimen of their
lack of gallantry^
" On the birth, parentage, and education of her hero,
Miss Seward has not deigned to bestow a single line. We
are abruptly introduced to him at the age of twenty-four,
when he first came to practice physick at Litchfield, in
the autumn of the year 1756; and even then instead of
proceeding directly in her narrative, she stops at the
threshold to give us a " sketch of his character and man-
ners," such as they had appeared to her in the subsequent
course of Dr. Darwin's life. This inversion of the usual
arrangement in biographical writing may be perfectly con-
sonant to the desultory plan of these memoirs ; but in
itself is so palpably injudicious, that there is very little
hazard of its adoption as a model. Within these few
years a similar innovation was attempted by a Scottish
historian, who at the commencement of every reign, in-
48 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
On which you'll please to place reliance,
For shortest outlines of this science. 47
troduced that general delineation of character, which has
usually found a place at the close : but, if we may judge
from our own feelings, the example of Mr. Pinkerton
will not probably prove more seducing than that of Miss
Seward."
Edinburgh Review, April 1803.
As respects us in this aforesaid discovery we will can-
didly confess, that conceiving ourself justified both by the
principles and the practices of our contemporary philoso-
phers, we actually built our superstructure on the foundation
of the famous Dr. Gall, whose theory is thus described,
" The brain is alike the immediate seat of all the powers
of life, whether strictly vital, moral, or intellectual ; and
each power having its seat in a peculiar portion of the brain,
the degree of general power, in each individual is in exact
proportion to the quantity of that particular part of the
brain, in which the function is exercised. The brain, being
complete before the ossification of the cranium, must give
it a peculiarity of figure, according to the largeness or small-
ness of its own parts ; and therefore if the position of the
seat of each faculty were known, the depressions or pro-
minences of the skull might be taken, as indicative of the
degree, in which the different powers were possessed by
the owner of the skull ! !
!" See Edinburgh Review for
April 1803.
Now, all real philosophers must be enamoured with this
theory : whence it follows that the Edinburgh Reviewers are
not philosophers ; for they assail it in the following man-
ner.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 49
By these we measure our first rates men
;
Can tell a scoundrel from a statesman,
" That the general strength of the vital, moral, and in-
tellectual powers is great in each individual, in proportion
to the quantity of the encephalon, is an assertion, to which
the experience of every one must have furnished him with
a reply. We confess, though at the risk of having the
periphery of our heads diminished, in the imagination of
our readers, that our experience is completely against this
assertion. We have known a large cranium with very
great dulness of the intellectual, and moral, and even the
vital powers." &c.
Now I will undertake to lay prostrate these Reviewers,
by a simple statement of my mode of physiognomising.
I would premise, however, that I borrowed a hint from
one Archimedes, a chiefof the Mohawks, in an experiment
which he made on the fur cap of a certain Hiero, a
noted Narraganset.
1
.
I fill a bucket, capable of containing five gallons,
brimful of water.
2. I place a vessel under said bucket, to catch the con-
tents in case of its overflowing.
3. I gently sink the head of my patient, the Physiogno-
mee, into the said brimming bucket of water.
4. I catch all the water which thus overflows from the
bucket.
5. I measure, to the nine hundred and ninety ninth part
of a thimble full, what is the amount of the water, which has
thus overflown.
50 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
White women from mulatto gypsies,
48
As people calculate eclipses.
And we've a rule, by which we'll bet,
We'll sound your cunningest coquette,
And ascertain, by mensuration,
The bottom of her inclination :
—
6. I make a scale of men and women's capacities, pro-
portioned to the quantity of water, which their heads,
" ducked" * as aforesaid, are able to displace.
7. From these data we ascertain—but for further infor-
mation we would beg leave to refer your worships to the
minute and wonderful essay of Count Rumford on the art
and mystery of excavating and eating a hasty pudding.
47 For shortest outlines of this science.
1 hat is to say, we have made an abridgment of the last
edition of the Avorks of John Casper Lavater, and have
reduced his likenesses, profiles, &c. from nineteen millions
to nine millions ditto.
*8 White women from mulatto gypsies.
This line your worships cannot possibly comprehend.
No man short of a certain president of a certain philoso
phical society, and infinitely the greatest man in the
United States, can possibly obtain the least inkling of our
meaning.
* Quoted from Darwin's « duck to death :" vide Temple of Nature.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 51
And, if your worships wish to court her,
Can gauge her, like a cask of porter,
Tell if she fitted more or less is
For your right worshipful addresses.
This our new system likewise suits
The physiognomy of brutes
;
Cannot, in application, fail
From mammoth downwards to the snail. 49
We've fourteen folios, now in types,
Call'd " Physiognomy of Snipes,"
And these we shall, with great propriety,
Present a certain learn 'd society.
Profoundly vers'd in chymick science,
I could bid matter's law defiance
;
Was up to Nature, or beyond her,
In mimick earthquakes, rain, and thunder !
5°
49 From mammoth downwards to the snail.
Lavater, and Dr. Gall, if we mistake not, were deeply
versed in the physiognomy not only of quadrupeds, but
of fishes. But in the physiognomy of insects they are
very greatly our inferiours.
5° In mimick earthquakes, rain, and thunder
!
Chymistry furnishes us with a method of manufacturing
52 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
And by a shock of electricity,
(I tell the truth without duplicity)
artificial earthquakes, which will have all the great effects
of those that are natural. The old-fashioned receipt for
an earthquake, however, of iron filings and sulphur mixed
in certain proportions and immersed in the earth, I shall
not take the trouble to state to your worships ; as most
of you have, fierha/is, read Mr. Martin's Philosophy nearly
half through. But my plan is to make such an earthquake
as no mortal, except Dr. Darwin and myself, ever sup-
posed possible. The former gentleman made shift to ex-
plode the moon from the southern hemisphere of our
earth, and I propose to forward other moons by artificial
earthquakes of my own invention, from the northern
hemisphere, unless Dr. Young's comet, as mentioned in
note 17, should render such moons unnecessary. I will
give your worships a specimen of Dr. Darwin's moon-
producing earthquake, from " Botanick Garden," Canto I.
« Gnomes ! How you shriek'd ! when through the trou-
bled air,
Roar'd the fierce din of elemental war ;
When rose the continents, and sunk the main,
And earth's huge sphere exploding burst in twain—
Gnomes! How you gaz'd ! When from her wounded
side,
Where now the South sea heaves its waste of tide,
Rose on swift wheels the Moon's refulgent car,
Circling the solar orb, a sister star,
Dimpled with vales, with shining hills emboss'd
And roll'd round earth her airless realms of frost."
No man will say in this case,—
Parturiunt montes nascetur ridiculus mus.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 53
I did (what won't again be soon done)
E'en fairly knock the man in the moon down !
5 '
The reaction, at the moment of explosion, of that mass
of matter which now composes our moon, is the cause of
the obliquity of the polar axis to the poles of the ecliptick,
according to Dr. Darwin ; though Milton says,
" Angels turn'd askance
The poles of earth twice ten degrees and more :
From the sun's axle, they with labour push'd
Oblique the centrick globe."
Whether an explosion similar to that, so beautifully de-
scribed by Dr. Darwin, from the north side of the equator,
would not set all right, and a new era be announced,
which will be, like that of old, when
-Spring
Perpetual smil'd on earth, with vernal flowers,
Equal in days and nights"
is a problem worth the attention of our modern philoso-
phers. But at any rate, I, Dr. Caustick, will positively try
the experiment.
Now, as to my " rain and thunder" I have only to inform
your worships that I have a wife, and she is the very es-
sence of a Xantippe, the yoke-fellow of Socrates. You
well remember the observation of that sage, when she
supplied him with a vast quantity of those articles, pur-
porting, that after such violent peals of thunder a shower
of rain must necessarily follow.
5' E'en fairly knock the man in the moon down !
This notable exploit I think to be a very great im-
provement on electrical experiments made by a number of
54 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
Could tell how Nature works her matters
In making brutes and human creatures :
Gave long, detail'd, authentick histories,
Of all that lady's nameless mysteries.
I learnt these from as nice a rabbit
As naturalist could wish to nab at.
$2
renowned French and English philosophers. See Priest-
ley's History of Electricity, page 94.
52
As naturalist could wish to nab at.
Such a gentleman as he who honoured the royal so-
ciety with that most interesting communication in the Phi-
losojihical Transactions^ vol. lxxxvii. p. 197.
I cannot express the degree of my contempt for an ob-
scure ignoramus, who, in a scurvy pamphlet called " Pur-
suits of Literature'' has endeavoured to bespatter the
above gentleman, and cast obloquy on certain useful and
diverting experiments by him instituted. He tells us that
he
" Spurn'd unfeeling science, cruel tales
Of virgin rabbits and of headless snails."
And continues ;
" When an experiment for any purpose,
useful to our fellow creatures, has been once made upon
an animal, it should be finally recorded, by men of science
and veracity, as authentick and satisfactory, not to be
repeated." Again ;
« Surely to sit calmly and to watch
with an impure, inhuman, and unhallowed curiosity the
progress of the desires and the extinction of the natural
passions in devoted animals after such mutilations and
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 55
With toads and tadpoles made as many
Experiments as Spallanzani. 53
But what surpasses, you'll admit,
All former bounds of human wit,
I form'd, by chymical contrivance,
A little homo all alive once !
i4
experiments, is a practice useless, wicked, foolish, de-
grading, and barbarous."
^3 Experiments as Spallanzani.
I have been the more solicitous to eulogise this great
philosopher, that I might thereby establish my own repu-
tation as a fiolite and fashionable writer. For thus I im-
plicitly follow the laudable example of most of the truly
gentlemen literati in Europe, who have vied with each
other in doling out the incense of their admiration at the
altar of this demi-god of an abbe. Such, however, was
the tendency to publick utility, and to the mitigation of
the sufferings of humanity, evident in the multifarious
pursuits of this philosopher, that certainly the most rigid
theologian would acknowledge that a moderate adoration
of Spallanzani is not the most atrocious kind of idolatry.
That Dr. Darwin supposed that the researches of Spallan-
zani would terminate in some wonderful lusus Natura, is
apparent from what he has informed us, Phytologia, p. 1 19.
" It is not impossible, as some philosopher has already sup-
posed, if Spallanzani should continue his experiments that
some beautiful productions might be generated between the
vegetable and the animal kingdoms, like the eastern fable
of the rose and nightingale" !!!!!!!
56 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
In philosophick model cast,
By Beddoe's gas 'twas put in blast,
Is not yet nine months old and yet he
Can more than match your Master Betty.
And, gentlemen, myself I flatter,
You'll think this last a mighty matter
;
*4 A little homo all alive once !
As soon as I shall have accomplished the all-important
task of procuring- your worships' assistance in unclenching
the " hard hand of pinching- poverty," which, I assure
you, most cordially gripes me at present, I intend to sur-
prise the learned world with an elegant volume, decorated
with highly finished engravings, giving in detail a pro-
foundly scientifick history of the origin, progress, and
consummation of this my ne jilus ultra, this my most
sublime of all sublime discoveries. And, gentlemen, if
you do not, as Dr. Lettsom says, '•
Dip your pens in
etherial and indelible ink," and puff away, I shall think you
are a set of , but not to call names.
In a civil, humble, and complaisant way, I entreat you
to suspend for the present any idle curiosity relative to
this my great achievement. Not a syllable relative to
my new species of manufacture must escape before the
whole is fairly laid open to publick inspection. Without
this useful precaution, some bungling operator may hazard
the production of a new-fangled order of beings, bearing
no more affinity to the human species, than a lap-dog to
a wolf, a cat to a tyger, or a monkey to a man. And
as I propose to solicit letters patent for the exclu-
sive right to all emoluments, &c« belonging, or any-
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 57
That, trac'd through all its consequences,
The good resulting most immense is.
'Tis of preeminent utility
To all our gentry and nobility,
Who have estates and things appendant,
Without a lineal descendant.
For they may come and ope their cases,
And I'll make heirs to noble races,
By process sure as scale of Gunter,
On plan improv'd from surgeon Hunter.
No scheme like mine was ever known,
Not e'en to doctors of Sorbonne
;
Or which one twentieth part so nice is,
For rooting out your crim. con. vices.
wise appertaining, to this my most curious invention, I
could wish that no spurious wares might be palmed on
the publick to the prejudice of the patent.
I think it right, in this place, to give notice, that unless
I should be patronised in proportion to the merits of the
great achievements herein announced, I will absolutely
offer my services to Buonaparte, and manufacture an heir
to the emperour of the French.
58 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
And though I might, with great propriety,
Propose my plan to your society
;
For certain reasons, I'll not urge ye,
But lay the thing before the clergy.
We hew'd a hard, brain-sucking brood
Of booksellers from peperidge wood, 5S
And shap'd the gnarled cross-grain'd splinters
To notable newspaper printers. s6
55 Of booksellers from peperidge wood.
This peperidge wood, may it please your worships, is
a species of the planus occidentalism and is so very un-
wedgeable, that it cannot be riven by thunder. Were it
penetrable stuff it would by no means be fit for the basis
of our wooden loggerheads*
s6
To notable newspaper printers.
Certain reviewers of former editions of this our most
profound performance have accused us of a propen-
sity to punning. But the truth is, that such an asser-
tion is not true. We are far from indulging in this, or
in any other illegitimate species of humour No, gentle-
men, we always consult a great many great men before
we presume on any thing which can be in the least calcu-
lated to cause a smile. We always thoroughly canvass
the definitions of wit, &c. as they are set down by Kaimes,
Addison, &c. and make them our standard, from a simple
attempt to excite a simperi to a violent effort to raise a
horse laugh. In short, we ever have, and always will,
laugh by rule, and with the leave of Locke. But had we
not been bound down by authority, we would have made
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 59
We fram'd our automatick set
On principles of Maillardet ;**
But made a kind of gas-inflation
Their principle of animation.
And though we did not take the pains
To give our wooden boobies brains,
a most exquisite pun on the word notable, and have fur-
nished you with rhyme, reason, and a pun, all in a single
couplet. Then our text would have stood thus :
And shap'd the gnarled cross-grain'd splinters,
fnot able, i. e. water gruel like "1
N
To < notable, i. e. notorious > printers#
1 knotable, i. e. a derivative from knottyj
But, as we have before observed, we most cordially abhor
a pun, and therefore notable, both in our text and context,
signifies noted, but with a little stretching will answer for
notorious.
57 On principles of Maillardet.
Maillardet, a famous Swiss mechanist, made a very fine
sort of semi-automatons in London, after the manner of
Merlin. Maillardet's machines, though imperfect in some
respects, were, however, free agents compared with ours.
Shower a few halfpence among a crowd of my gentry,
and they would be under a moral necessity, according to
the best writers on the will, to scramble for them at a
most diverting rate.
60 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
The cunning creatures know what's meant,
When people talk of cent, per cent. 58
The best pursuits of literature
Are well committed, to be sure,
To these our blockheads, who ne'er look
Beyond the title of a book.
Thus wily sultans place their fair
Beneath a kind of being's care,
& When people talk of cent, per cent.
Yes, gentlemen, they would give you a new edition of
the devil in royal octavo, wire-wove and hot pressed, could
they calculate on a hundred per cent, on the cost of the
impression ; and for any thing less they will not run the
risk of printing a bible. Some people who are professed
enemies to my establishment of wooden booksellers have
had the impudence to affirm them to be so mercenary,
that you might bribe them at the rate of three halfpence
each to cut their own throats. This we maintain to be a
most slanderous assertion. Still we feel such a degree
of paternal solicitude for their welfare, that we should be
sorry to see them tempted by such an offer. Should we,
however, apprehend any thing serious on this score, we
can get them ensured at the rate of three halfpence each
;
which would be allowing a premium of one hundred per
cent, on the value of the property.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. Gl
Who never meddles with a charm,
Or if he did could do no harm. i9
Our caterers of publick taste
Are always found correct and chaste ;
Were never known, for paltry cash
To poison people with their trash.
'Tis true the genius and the dunce
They'd put upon a par at once,
Did not the shrew'd, sharp sighted elves
Prefer the picture of themselves ;
—
But such a sympathy controls
All animals of kindred souls,
That, give them an unbiass'd choice,
The genuine dunce will have their voice :—
-
But then I will maintain, in spite
Of all that you can say, they're right,
59 Or if he did could do no harm.
We believe that Dr. Johnson expressed an idea similar
to that contained in the above stanza, relative to the pro-
priety of employing none but illiterate men in the trade
of selling books. If so, it shows the wonderful parallelism
of two great men.
62 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
And always should maintain a balance
'Gainst men of learning and of talents.
'Tis evident that real knowledge
Can have no business out of college,
And we should print, 'tis plain enough,
For common people common stuff.
These my fine fellows know full well
That books are merely made to sell,
That half the world will only prize
The print, the paper, and the size :-^
That men of fashion 'tis agreed,
Conceive it quizzical to read,
But set their books up in a row
Merely to make a splendid show ;—
That, if 'tis rightly understood
Your library's not made of wood,
'Tis unpolite to take the pains
To look at what a shelf contains.
To set our people up in trade
We next a set of authors made
Whom you might reasonably hire
To soil white paper by the quire.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 63
r
We order'd these to starve, in case,
They did not scrawl a dog trot pace,
6o
Or spin with wonderful tenuity
Your diplomatick ambiguity. 6|
60 They did not scrawl a dog trot pace.
Our capital merchants are in the habit of giving orders
to our capital booksellers for books by the gross, pound
weight, or square foot ; but never trouble themselves about
the quality of the articles. Hence the author who can
produce the greatest quantity of matter in a given period
of time, is the man for a capital bookseller.
6' Your diplomatick ambiguity.
We have two or three high official characters in this
country, who are determined never to commit themselves,
on paper, unless it should be conceived criminal to write
what it is impossible to comprehend. They take their
cue from a certain Frenchman, mentioned by the author
of the Pursuits of Literature, * who says, " Je ne veux
point admettre dans les arreis de Conseil un vrai trivial un
clarte trop. familiare. Je veux un vrai de recherche, une
clarte elegante, une naivete fine, toutc brillante de termes
jiomfieux, releves ino/iinement de phrases arrondies, de vo-
cation intermediaires et d' adverbes indefinis. f Our cele-
brated Mr. Madison's official writings seem to have been
the product of a private secretary, who was one of our
kind of authors.
* See Pursuits of Literature, p. 362. American edition.
t I would not allow the admission of a trivial truth in die de-
crees of council, or a clearness which is too easy and familiar. I
choose to have a subUe kind of truth, an elegant perspicuity, a na-
tural manner, but not wholly without art, set off" with words of
pomp, unexpectedly raised with a roundness of phraseology, with
intermediate vocatives, and indefinite adverbs.
64 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
We likewise set machines a going
As booksellers, who're wondrous knowing,
And made them heads like Buonpart's,
But then forgot to give them hearts.
We form'd most mighty combinations
Among these chaps, and their relations
;
Caus'd them to swear, in any weather
That they would sink or swim together.
E'en gave them, lest they run ashore,
Such wonderful esprit de corps,
That, but offend their meanest noddy
And they'll attack you in a body.
These men well paid us for the rearing,
In jacobinick pamphleteering
;
Have gain'd us thousands in a season,
By peddling Tom Paine's Age of Reason.
With such machines, on mischief bent
We can o'erturn a government,
Root up society's foundations
And kindle war among all nations.
62
62
And kindle war among all nations.
These men were the disciples of Illuminism, were
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 65
Such are American Mecenasses,
And if you dare to style them mean asses,
By submarine explosions, soon
We'll blow your island to the moon !
63
active at the great book fairs at Leipzig. There are, we
believe, some of the sort in America, who are most in-
veterate Frenchmen in their politicks. As they belong
to the dominant party, and we are now tributary to France,*
they are of course pretty peaceable. Should we ever assert
our independence and attempt to get out of the leading
strings of the French faction we shall see them display
their powers in causing whiskey insurrections, Genet fra-
ternal scrapes, 8cc.
63 Will blow your island to the moon.
This your worships may depend on as no threat which
ought to pass by you as the " idle wind." If you will
take the trouble to consult our American Philosophical
Transactions (which you will find at Mr. Johnson's, the
bookseller, St. Paul's Church yard, a number having been
sent there for sale, and remaining, we believe, all on hand)
vol. iv. from page 303, to page 313. you will see what Mr.
D. Bushnell of Connecticut has done and had like to have
done by virtue of submarine explosions You will find
that several English ships have been put in jeopardy, and
one schooner actually blown up and demolished by Mr.
* We have been good enough to pay to France seventeen mil-
lions of dollars for a tract of land. Our title, however, is merely
a right to govern the said tract, thefee of the soil remaining in the
proprietors who purchased under Spain. Now don't laugh at us,
for we could not help it, we have no navy, no army, no govern-
ment, and France swore she would knock us «n the head if we
did not pay her money.
K
66 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
For patronising poets, oft,
We've made us wooden wights, like Loft,
*A
Bushnell's submarine explosions. There is also a pretty
little piece of poetry called the Battle of the Kegs>
written by Francis Hopkinson, Esq. of Philadelphia, pre-
served among the poems of Col. Humphreys, which will
prove that subaqueous explosions are no trifling matters.
No, gentlemen, if you do not wish to make a bishop Wil-
kins's tour, under some very disagreeable circumstances,
you will be careful how you provoke us Americans.
64 We've made us wooden wights, like Loft.
Mr. Capel Loft, Esq. to whom we have so happily
alluded, is a gentleman, who commenced an authoring ca-
reer, by building a superstructure on the foundation of
Baron Gilbert's Law of Evidence. The book, when finish-
ed, somewhat resembled Nebuchadnezzar's image, part
iron, and part clay ; the latter material being supplied
plentifully by the said Mr. Loft, Esq. Finding his legal
abilities were not duly appreciated, either by the bench,
bar, or the publick, our lawyer set up as a patron, anno-
tator, and preface monger for poor poets, and has perform-
ed wonders by introducing to the world Mr. Robert Bloom-
field, author of the Farmer's Boy, 8cc. and another
gentleman, brother to the man who wrote that masterly
production, whose christian name we have forgotten.
The poem styled the Farmer's Boy was, it seems, made
to undergo Mr Capel Loft's criticism, modifications, &c.
and a most fiery ordeal it must have passed, as is evident
from its present purity.
This sublime poet begins his lucid performance, by in-
voking a " blest spirit," which is a " rushing warmth,"
which is a " sweet inmate," and says
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 67
And, in more instances than one he
Has chang'd crude measures into money.
He'll take a man, suppose a cobbler,
In verse, though something of a hobbler,
And make his works a " Counter Blast," 6s
To " stick, good cobbler to your last."
66
" Be thou my muse, and faithful still to me
" Retrace the fiaths of wild obscurity."
It would be very hazardous for any man, in my hearing,
to say fudge! after reading or hearing such a sublime
couplet.
65 And make his works a " Counter Blast."
See king James's " puff collusive" on the staple com-
modity of Virginia.
66 To " stick, good cobbler to your last."
" Ne sutor ultra crepidam," long since said that old
aristocrat Horace. But had he been a modern philosopher
'
he would have known -that wonderfully successful bards
might exist, who were poetical, by intuition, without
learning or ins/iiration. That a man, who was neither fioeta
fit nor fioeta nascitur, might become a great favourite with
an enlightened publick, in a scribbling capacity, merely
because he was a cobbler, and set up for a poet, without
serving a regular apprenticeship for the latter trade. But
Horace as well as Homer aliquando dormitat*
Should a man make us a most unconscionable pair of
boots, resembling those so famous in romance of seven
leagued dimensions, with stitches like cart ruts, and every
thing about them disproportioned in that proportion, pro-
68 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
We set some young apprentice hewers
To make us " Critical Reviewers,"
vided we were told that the fabricator of these articles was
a man of genius in obscurity, whose works must be
brought into fashion, we should not hesitate to dance a
minuet in them, at St. James's at his Majesty's birthnight
ball, with the prettiest of the princesses royal ; or con-
vince us that the artist was bred a bricklayer., but felt him-
self propelled by certain cordwaining energies and propen-
sities to relinquish the trowel for the last, we would foot
it as aforesaid; in a pair of his shoes, though made so
tight that they would torture Miss Cinderella or a Chinese
lady. On such principles and actuated by such motives
we will always eulogize Mr. Bloomfield's fashionable and
fascinating performances.
It is true that I have heard of some musty old gentlemen,
who are called great poets, and who seemed to have made
themselves masters of all the sciences of the ages in which
they respectively lived, before they gave vent to their genuis,
by publishing their poetry. But your Homers and your Mil-
tons it is to be hoped will be put down, and your Bloom-
fields, and your Delia Cruscas will occupy their niches in
the temple of Fame. And there is one Giffbrd, of.
Baviad and Meviad memory, who might have stood as
high as poet Bloomfield, as he was once as much per-
plexed with the res angusti domi, had it not been for his
impertinent curiosity to become a man of extensive eru-
dition. But I fancy that his poring over Latin and Greek
has destroyed all that « rushing warmth" which is the sine
qua non of your genuine poet.
But we hereby announce for the benefit of those
who wish to climb Parnassus without ..rouble, that we in-
tend to overturn the mountain into the swamp below, by
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 69
For Solomons did not intend them,
And therefore could not recommend them. 6r
But though their inflects were obtuse,
Was never one was such a goose,
He could not tell, in common sailing,
Plain irony from downright railing
;
68
The thickest head, or I'm mistaken,
Would more than match vour Arthur Aikin,
methods similar to those by which we make our artificial
earthquakes, that candidates for the wreathe of Apollo like
the heroes of the Dunciad, may hereafter dive till they
reach the fiinnacle of the foundation of poetical eminence.
67 And therefore could not recommend them.
These were much like the gentlemen who attempted to
review Mr. Gifford's translation of Juvenal. But they
were not firecisely the same. They were guilty of nothing
like forging a passage, in order to find fault with it, and
in that particular, to say nothing further, were superiour to
those reviewers.
63 Plain irony from downright railing.
The Critical Reviewers could not possibly ascer-
tain whether our former editions of Terrible Tractora-
tion were for or against the tractors.* Owls, though
reputed birds of Minerva, are not judges of spots in t .
sun.
* See Critical Review of Terrible Tractoration for Nov. 180J,
and Jan. 1804.
70 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
Exhibit greater depth of criticism,
And hammer out a better witticism. *»
We next crave liberty to mention
Another most sublime invention
A sort of stenographick still,
Alias a patent author's mill
:
And into this we'd toss a set
Of letters of the alphabet,
And turn out elegies, orations,
And odes for Jul}- celebrations.
This last invention likewise reaches
To making congress members' speeches
;
Would they adopt it, though we've said it
'Twould save them not a little credit.
6 9 And hammer out a better witticism.
A poem, written in America, by the Rev. John Blair
Linn, has been republished in England, was well received
by the publick, and commended by the Anti Jacobin Re-
viewers and by the British Critical Reviewers. Mr. Arthur
Aikin, however, author of The New Annual Register, with-
out condescending to quote a single line, dismissed it with
a feeble attempt at a dry joke. Dr. Aikin would do well
never to put off his longface. The physicians of Gil Bias
might as well attempt to form themselves into a company
of comedians as Dr. Aikin to execute any thing witty.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 71
Could make love elegies as many
As you could carry, for a penny,
And if a halfcrown were bestow'd
We could supply an ass's load.
We mean to furnish by these means
Columbian weakly magazines,
Thus raise beyond all calculation
Their literary reputation. 7°
Could make Columbian legislators
More easily than raise potatoes,
7I
7° Their literary reputation.
Perhaps, however, any attempt to increase the literary
merit of these things might not be for the interest oftheir
proprietors. They are obliged to soar low or lose sight of
their customers.
' More easily than raise potatoes.
By attending to the following, which are the principal
requisites, to qualify a man for a seat in our legislatures,
your worships may obtain, as it were, an embryo of an
idea of our process.
1 . A man to become an accomplished American legisla-
tor must make great pretensions to patriotism and an ex-
traordinary degree of friendship for the common people.
The truth of these pretensions is always to be tested by
his defrauding them, whenever it is practicable, either
in a publick or a private capacity.
72 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
And these you'd not distinguish from well
The round heads, who preceded Cromwell.
Whai though they know no more than bears
About our national affairs,
'Tis highly worth our while to breed 'em
To take in custody our freedom.
2. The more crimes a man has committed, even if they
should amount to what in arbitrary governments, would be
called felonies, the purer his patriotism and the greater his
claims to office of any kind, but especially to that of a
legislator ; for any attempt to preserve a good moral cha-
racter is an essay to introduce into a free government the
aristocracy of nature, and leads to a kind of distinction,
which is absolutely incompatible with the " rights of man."
3. The man, who is a candidate for political promotion,
must be either imported from among the lowest classes on
your side of the Atlantick, or must be of mushroom origin
on this side : for the minds of legislators of this descrip-
tion, can never be distracted by the elevation or extent of
their views, and they will of consequence devote them-
selves entirely to what alone they can comprehend, to wit,
the petty pecuniary interests of their constituents They
will likewise be more apt to be subservient to the wishes
and views of two or three cunning men, who for the sake
of good order should ever be implicitly obeyed in legis-
lative assemblies. Thus a mule is a more sure footed
animal than an English hunter, and a blind ass will move
in a mill with more regularity than a lynx-eyed Arabian
courser.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 73
For thus by poets we are told
An ugly dragon was of old
The only sentinel would suit
To guard the rich Hesperian fruit.
We scatter'd o'er a blasted heath,
Three pecks of deadly adders' teeth, n
t1
Three pecks of deadly adders' teeth.
This mode of peopling a country was not unknown to
the ancients ; but the art seems to have been lost since the
days of Cadmus, till we restored it. Ovid gives us this
account of the proceedings of the Tyrian philosopher.
Gadmus, having killed a monster of a black snake,
Ecce, viri fautrix superas delapsa per auras
Pallas adest : motseque jubet supporere terrs
Vipereos dentes, populi incrementa futuri.
Paret : et, ut presso sulcum patefacit aratro,
Spargit humi jussos, mortalia semina, dentes
Inde (fide majus) glebai ccepere moveri.
Primaque de sulcis acies apparuit haste
:
Tegmine mox capitum picto nutantia cano :
Mox humeri, pectusque, onerataque brachia telis,
Existunt : crescitque seges clypeata virorum.
Met. lib. iii.
Pallas swift decending from the skies,
Pallas, the guardian of the good and wise
Bids him plough up the field, and scatter round
The dragon's teeth o'er all the furrow'd ground
;
Then tells the youth how to his wondering eyes
Embattled armies from the field should rise.
74 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
And, suddenly, earth disembogues
A ragged regiment of rogues
!
And, at the head of our brigade,
We plac'd one colonel Renegade,
A baron bold of Irish breed
High mounted on a wooden steed. n
He sows the teeth at Pallas's command,
And flings the future people from his hand.
The clods grow warm, and crumble where he sows ;
And now the pointed spears advance in rows
;
Now nodding plumes appear, and shining crests,
Now the broad shoulders, and the rising breasts ;
O'er all the field a breathing harvest swarms,
A growing host, a crop of men and arms.
Addison.
See likewise another crop produced by a similar pro-
cess, Met. lib. vii.
73 High mounted on a wooden steed.
This our great military character had proved himself
perfectly capable of managing a steed of this description,
by a most happy display of wooden horsemanship at Cal-
cutta. We had likewise another reason, which induced
us to delight to honour him. We have a kind of com-
modity in this country, which may be called liberty Gal-
licized. This exists in genuine purity only among the
sweepings of the countries on your side of the Atlantick,
and must therefore be regularly imported or we shall soon
be out of stock. This it is incumbent on us to preserve
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 75
'Tis hop'd they'll cut each other's throats74
Like Ovid's famous sans culottes,
with as much care as was kept the sacred fire in the tem-
ples of Vesta. Then, having fusilladed, noyaded, and by
other means despatched all our aristocrats, that is to say,
professional men, men of property, and men of education,
we may terminate our career of liberty in that most
efficient of all governments, in which the will of a military
chieftain is the supreme law of the land. In order to
bring about this most desirable event we are placing all the
military power of the United States in the hands of im-
ported patriots, such as colonel Renegade, and one Capt.
Daggerman, an absconding patriot, who happened not to
be hung in Europe.
It is fit, however, that your worships should know that
we have a sect of politicians existing in this country, who
are anti-philosophers, and are always thwarting ourself,
Mr. Jefferson & Co. in our wonderful improvements.
These call themselves federalists, and they are ever dashing
at us and our inventions. These Cerberusses, how-
ever, we have employed one Mr. Keen Mack to lull asleep
by now and then a sop, alias a bit of an office, and we
have so completely succeeded that you might set the
mob a pulling their houses about their ears, and they
would remain as motionless as if they had been petrified
by the waters of the general deluge.
74 'Tis hop'd they'll cut each other's throats.
And therefore the advice which was given to Cadmus
may be applicable to all honest men who are lookers on,
while some folks are falling out among themselves.
Ne cape, de populo, quern terra creaverat,—
nee te civilibus insere bellis.
76 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
Butfear1
d they'll not be thus employ 'd
Till all our best men are destroy'd.
We mean one Captain Daggerman,
Shall take the lead in danger's van,
Unless we find in party's pother,
They'll go to work and kill each other.
Our patriots pure will not abide
Freedom which is not Frenchified,
And 'tis a point beyond all doubt
The bayonet must bring that about.74
That is to say in English,
Of honest men 'tis the behoof,
While demos fight to stand aloof
;
Let them like furies hot from h—11 come
Ev'n cut each others throats in welcome.
74
The bayonet must bring that about.
The only way to enlighten some people, as we have
before observed (note 39, p. 39) is to permit the sun to
shine through them ; and from the apathy of our politicians,
who, though they pretend to be correct in theory, are too
indolent to put any thing in practice, we are very well
convinced that this will be the mode ultimately adopted
in this country. It is true that with proper exertions we
might buffet the torrent. But our good and great men,
who pretend that they can see a few inches before their
noses, are in the practice of discouraging every effort by
MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
But though our crop of rogues, a rare row,
Is worse than all the plagues of Pharaoh,
There's not a Satan of the tribe
Who's not a saint compar'd with Leib.
Even Duane and his Irish mates,
Have never stole certificatesy
Nor have I ever heard it said
They robb'd poor orphans of their bread.76
their boding screech owl notes relative to the necessity of
going to the bottom of our revolutionary descent—that we
must sit on our breeches and wait till faction's vol-
cano displodes, and sends us to the moon. Such conduct
puts one in mind of a poor devil of a Frenchman, who in
bathing, proceeded beyond his depth, and mistaking the
application of the terms will and shall, prevented the exer-
tions of his friends by exclaiming " I will, drown, nobody
shall help me."
76
They robb'd poor orphans of their bread.
A certain representative in our national legislature from
the metropolis of the United States has shown how well
he is qualified for office, by an act which, had he not been
a good republican, would have degraded him below the
level of common pick pockets. It has been made to appear,
in a court of justice, that this Doctor L—b made an attempt
by a most flagrant breach of trust, backed by a number of
most atrocious lies, to defraud the orphan children of a
deceased friend, of six thousand dollars in loan office cer-
tificates, and appropriate the cash to his own use. But for
78 MODERN PHILOSOPHEK.
Among the rest is one Mac Farland,
Who's deck'd with legislative garland ;
But this last rogue the poet foresees
Will swing for stealing hogs and horses/
the history of that transaction, we must refer your worships
to the newspapers and pamphlets of the day.
We would recommend it to those who are suffering
under your arbitrary government, to send to this country
and import a few cargoes of true American liberty, which
we will sell you dog cheap, and present you into the bar-
gain some of our patriots to teach you its proper use.
We will send you several against whom the following
charges have been made and can be supported.
One pure patriot " who has invaded the dearest rights
of his friend, who has slandered the purest characters in
our society, who has made a mockery of our religion,
and who is the associate, the friend, and supporter of
thieves, of drunkards, of outcasts, and infidels." One do.
a legislator, " who has drunk the tears of the widow, and
fattened on the spoils of the orphan." One do. celebrated
for " drunkenness and fury in the chair of state, knavery
and profligacy in the receipt of publick money."* &c. &c«
77 Will swing for stealing hogs and horses.
For the purpose of giving you some insight into the
immaculate nature of our freest of all governments, we
will trouble you with a very concise specification of the
virtues and good qualities of this right honourable member
of our national legislature.
* See United States' Gazette for December 27th, 1802.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 79
These men are samples of the nature
Of our Columbian legislature,
And we the people choose the elves
To represent our own dear selves.
1. This worthy champion of freedom has been expelled
from the state legislature of North Carolina for having
born arms against his country.
2. He has been indicted convicted and fiunishecl for cruelty
exercised on a poor old woman, under pretence of her
being a witch.
3. He has been apprehended on suspicion of having mur-
dered a person with whom he had been travelling, re-
ported to have been drowned. The horse of the
deceased was found in possession of this our legislator ;
and was advertised by him as a stray mare ; he fled
out of the state in which the supposed murder was
committed, but was, however, surrendered by virtue
of a demand from the governour of that state ; but tvas
not hung, for, either by accident or contrivance, no pro-
secutor appeared against him.
4. He was afterwards prosecuted for hog stealing; but the
prosecutor, as before, happened not to be in the way ;
and our legislator had no fraternal hug with the whip-
ping post.
5. He was afterwards indicted for perjury and forgery, and
in manifest peril of his ears ; and we believe that there
are prosecutions now pending against him for some
trifling misdemeanors of that kind. But vivat respublica.
The greater the scoundrel the purer the patriot. So
said the French ; and amen say the Americans.
80 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
Our inland ocean, lake Superiour,
We mean to merge in earth's interiour,
B) dint of scientifick diggings,
A plan improv'd from Jesse Higgins.78
At Darien we'll dig a ditch,
With Mister Higgins' leave, in which,
At two hours' notice we'll be bound
To whelm old ocean under ground.
A very precious plan, I trow,
To drain the gulph of Mexico,
And Giddy Granger'd best bespeak a
Post road from New York to Jamaica.
And I will aid, with all my heart,
Good Mister Emperour Bonapart',
78 A plan improv'd from Jesse Higgins.
A worthy sprig of our American Philosophical Society
is this Mr. Jesse Higgins, and a man, as will hereafter
appear, of most unfathomable profundity of geological
knowledge. He tells us in a communication, which is
printed in the 3d vol. of our American Philosophical
Transactions, pages 325—6, that at a certain distance
below the surface of the earth, there is a stratum of loose
sand, which admits of the passage of water, and that you
have nothing to do but to dig a pit at the bottom or side of
a pond to this stratum and the water will be absorbed and
the pond emptied !
!
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 81
For I will make your channel dry land,
For him to march straight over by land.
By some such method I'll be bound,
To leave your navy on dry ground,
And then of course old England falls
In spite of all her wooden walls.
Sirs, we have now in contemplation
A beautiful land speculation,
The common regular course of which
Will make us most immensely rich.
We are most absolutely bent
On making us a continent,
A thing which we can doubtless do
;
For Darwin manufactur'd two.79
79 For Darwin manufactur'd two.
For a particular account of this process we would refer
your worships to the Botanick Garden, in which you will
find how chaos quakes exploded the sun ; a sun quake ex-
ploded comets and the primary planets ;
primary planet
quakes begat moons, satellites, Sec. and you will likewise
perceive how the continent rose and the main sunk, &c.
Now it is plain that still further explosions will cause at
least another continent. But more of this hereafter.
M
82 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
Now would your worships buy the land,
We'll venture on your notes of hand,
Provided, first, you'll look out for some
Good London merchants to endorse 'em.
These notes, to make still more secure,
Our underwriters shall ensure,
And patriot Armstrong for the claimant,
As agent shall receive the payment.
80
80 As agent shall receive the payment.
This Mr. Patriot Armstrong is a personage of high
consideration, with whom your worships and the world
ought to be better acquainted. He first began to figure, as
a patriot, at the close of our revolutionary war, at which
time he arrayed himself in opposition to general Wash*
ington, wrote some very pretty patriotick letters, addressed
to certain worthy compatriots, in which he advised the
army to march against the government of his country, and
at the point of the bayonet to force them to pay certain
sums of money due to the brave men who achieved our
independence, but which sums, as it unfortunately hap-
pened, it was not in the power of the government to pro-
cure. In fact, he was determined to make himself the
Cromwell or Buonaparte of our free government. General
Washington, however, proved to be too old for him, and
patriot Armstrong was defeated. But he has of late ex-
hibited himself in a point of view which cannot but make
him as famous as the hero who burnt the temple of Diana.
Had he at noon day set fire to the four corners of the city
of Philadelphia, he could not have shown a more laudable
disposition to destroy that kind of aristocracy, which con-
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 83
We'll make our right of soil the greater
By act of Georgia legislature,
With stipulations that they shan't
Destroy the records of their grant.
81
sists in the right ofproperty. In fact, this our ambassadour,
requested the condemnation of an American vessel illegally
captured by the French, because the claim was " pursued,
not on account of the ostensible owners, but of the ensu-
rers ; and because these ensurers had, sometime or other,
perhaps, made 20 per cent, per annum on their capital."
Now, to apply this precedent to the case in hand it will
amount to this, that whenever either of your worships
happens to have a guinea, you must present me with one
half of it, and if you wont quietly submit to make the
dividend, my friends Nap. Buonaparte and Jack Arm-
strong shall, administer, according to my prescriptions, a
few leaden lozenges, with now and then a chalybeate, till
we shall be able to reduce your worships, now so plethorick,
to a spare habit.
81
Destroy the records of their grant.
A certain immaculate junto of gentlemen, chosen by
the good people of one of our states to act in the capacity
of legislators, have shown the world how greatly the right
ofproperty is respected by some of our good republicans.
The general assembly of Georgia passed an act, by
which, for a valuable consideration, they assigned to cer-
tain persons a large tract of land. At a subsequent session,
however, finding that they had not made so good a bargain
as could have been wished, they took the liberty to annul
jt, by the extraordinary process of burning the records of
84 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
We found, by accurate calculation,
How many years before creation
Our globe and trimmings were created,
In manner Doctor Darwin stated.
'Tis true our theory opposes
What's call'd the History of Moses ;
But his authority's denied ;
For our great emperour says he lied.
82
their proceedings, which contained the only evidence of
this unprofitable sale. This step caused the ruin of
thousands of our adventurers, who had become purchasers
of this land and were so foolish as to believe that when
the faith of the state was pledged for the performance of a
contract, they might suppose that it would be fulfilled.
This pure patriotick legislature, for this masterly measure,
most probably found their precedent in Godwin's Political
Justice, where we are told that " the adherence to pro-
mises, as well as their employment, in the first instance
must be maintained only so far as upon a comprehensive
view, it shall be found productive of a balance of happi-
ness,"*
82 For our great emperour says he lied.
There is, we believe, an opinion not a little prevalent on
your side of the Atlantick, that we Americans are Chris-
tians. But it seems hardly credible that Christians should
make choice of a chief magistrate, who is notoriously an
infidel. Hence it follows that the world is wrong in im-
* Book ii. chap. hi.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 85
On ocean's bottom we can travel
Thorough mud and thorough gravel,
puting to us any thing like Christianity. Of the infidelity
of the president of the United States, we might produce
proofs almost without number from a book which he calls
Notes on Virginia. The following may serve as a spe-
cimen of his mode of attacking the Mosaick account of
the earth's formation. " I have received petrified shells
of different kinds from the first sources of the Kentucky,
which bear no resemblance to any I have ever seen on the
tide waters. It is said, that shells are found in the Andes,
in South America, fifteen thousand feet above the level of
the ocean. This is considered by many, both of the
learned and unlearned, as a proof of a universal deluge.
To the many considerations o/i/iosing this o/iinion the following
may be added : The atmosphere, and all its contents, whe-
ther of water, air, or other matters, gravitate to the earth ;
that is to say, they have weight. Experience tells us that
the weight of all these together never exceeds that of a
column of mercury of thirty-one inches height, which is
equal to one of rain water of thirty rfive feet high. If the
whole contents of the atmosphere then were water, instead
of what they are, it would cover the globe but thirty-five
feet deep ; but as these waters, as they fell, would run
into the seas, the superficial measure of which is to that
of the dry parts of the globe as two to one, the seas would
be raised only fifty-two and a half feet above their present
level, and of course would overflow the lands to that height
only."
There might be in this case, however, some few argu-
ments urged in favour of the statement made by Moses,
were not the weight of the authority of our emperou^
like the infallibility of the pope, sufficient to put to flight
S6 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
While o'er our heads hoarse tempests hurtle
With more adroitness than a turtle.
all kind of reasoning on the subject. It might be asserted,
perhaps, that the weight of the atmosphere is not a crite-
rion of the quantity of water which it contains, for that
it is heaviest when most free from moisture. It might be
urged that history and tradition unite their testimony in
favour of the Mosaick account. That Lucian, Ovid, and
other heathen writers (whom by the by Mr. Jefferson
puts on a par with Moses) are pretty positive that some-
thing of the kind must have happened. Some have like-
wise supposed that there might have been something
supernatural in the event. A certain philosophical divine
on our side of the Atlantick (though said to be one of
Mr. Jefferson's sect in politicks) attacks this philosophical
tenet as follows.
*' In every valley and mountain support for revelation has
been found. Marine shells have been discovered in situa-
tions so elevated, and under circumstances so remarkable,
as to prove that they were left there by a flood extending
over the whole globe, and what confirms this conclusion
is, that shells, peculiar to different shores and climates,
very distant from each other, have been found in promiscu-
ous heaps, plainly showing that they could have been brought
together, only by an extensive inundation. The bones of
elephants and rhinoceri have been found in a multitude of
instances, far distant from the regions in which they arc
found to live, and where, from the nature of the climate,
they could never exist in the living state ; and between the
climates which they might have inhabited, and the places
in which they are now found, too many mountains inter-
vene to suppose them carried thither by any other means
than by a general deluge." Miller's Retrospect- This gen-
tleman's cassock protects him from our indignation ; other-
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 87
Priestley first caus'd our head to teem
With this most eligible scheme,
Supplied us vital air, which stuff
We took like macaroni snuff.
*3
Encamp'd beneath a vast ice island,
For nineteen years we did'nt come nigh land,
And could have staid, as well as not,
E'en had the sea been boiling hot. 8+
wise it is impossible to foresee to what a pitch of resent-
ment we might be hurried against a man who thus flies
in the face of hisfriend and our favourite philosopher.
83 We took like macaroni snuff.
Having now long since passed our grand climacterick,
and being of consequence somewhat forgetful, we cannot
refer your worships to the particular page of Dr. Priestley's
Avorks in which you may find the sentiments of that sage
respecting the practicability of what we have so happily
achieved as above stated. You will find, however, that Dr.
Darwin foresaw what we were about to accomplish, for he
says;
" Led by the sage, Lo ! Britain's sons shall guide
Huge sea-balloons beneath the tossing tide ;\
The diving castles, roof'd with spherick glass,
Ribb'd with strong oak, and barr'd with bolts of brass?
Buoy'd with pure air shall endless tracks pursue,
And Priestley's hand the vital flood renew."
Botanick Garden, Canto iv.
s4
E'en had the sea been boiling hot.
There was. a certain Spaniard, whose name we have for-
88 MODERN PHILOSOPHER,
Our car triumphal, drawn by whales,
Was tackled nicely to their tails
;
A Triton- coachman Neptune lent us,
Who drove as if the devil sent us. 8i
gotten, but whose ignipotent powers have been mentioned
in newspapers and other periodical publications, who pos-
sessed a power to live in hot water, boiling tar, &c. and we
have seen a politician excited by the fever of party, become
so hot-headed as to melt the lead of his skull, and there-
by make a light-headed orator of a leaden-headed booby.
*5 Who drove as if the devil sent us.
This was in order to take possession before the British,
and establish our title to Neptune's territory by the right
of discovery. Dr. Darwin, without the foresight which
commonly distinguished that wonderful philosopher, ap-
prized us that Great Britain, not contented with ruling the
surface would take possession of the bottom of the ocean ;
for he says that this grand discovery being made perfect,
" Then shall Britannia rule the wealthy realms,
Which ocean's wide insatiate wave o'erwhelms ;
Confine in netted bowers his scaly flocks,
Part his blue plains, and people all his rocks.
Deep in warm waves beneath the line that roll,
Beneath the shadowy ice-isles of the pole,
Onward, through bright meandring vales afar,
Obedient sharks* shall trail her sceptred car,
With harness'd necks the pearly flood disturb,
Stretch the silk rein, and champ the silver curb."
We preferred whales both for the docility and rhyme's sake
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 89
We've form'd the most tremendous plan
Which ever enter'd mind of man,
And which to nothing less aspires
Than making moons from central fires.
For, if the theory of Hutton
Is worth the essence of a button,
And doctor Darwin has not blunder'd,
We'll make you new moons by the hundred. 86
86 We'll make you new moons by the hundred.
I do not think that one in forty of your worships has
ever read the " Theory of the Earth," as first produced
by James Hutton, M. D. F. R. S. 8cc. 8cc. and thereafter
much improved by professor Playfair. As it would, how
ever, be highly commendable for gentlemen of your ho-
nourable profession not to rest with a superficial view of
the great operations of nature, I will accompany you as
far as the centre of gravity, in a journey of observation,
for investigating the astonishing magazines of burning
materials which Dr. Hutton and professor Playfair have
furnished us for the execution of our stupendous project.
1. You will obligingly take it for granted, or run the risk
of spoiling the Huttonian Theory, that the centre of the
globe is a stupendous furnace, a million times hotter than
that of Nebuchadnezzar. That this same heat, although it
never amounts to a blaze, and wastes no fuel is sufficiently
elastick to raise the continents from the bottom of the main
—That having once raised or blown them up, as it were,
like a bladder, it it very careful not to let them down
90 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
We mean to bore us, at a venture
Some auger holes through Hutton's centre,
again, because as we shall see by and by, they must all
be " disintegrated" alias washed into the ocean.
2. Moreover, Dr. Hutton's followers will thank you to
suppose that all this matter, raised as aforesaid, consisted
originally of unstratified rocks, which, though they are
properly called primitive as the the most ancient of the
whole family of rocks, yet they are in fact nothing better
than the scrapings or " disintegrations" of primal conti-
nents which existed before the commencement of the last
edition of the earth.
3. You will please to believe that all calcareous matters
are formed from the detritus of the primitive rocks, de-
livered by rivers into the sea, and there, after having been
modified by central heat, protruded above water as before
mentioned.
4. You will likewise be convinced that no metal, mineral
or lafiidose substance, can possibly be formed except at
the bottom of the ocean, in the laboratory of Dr. Hutton.*
5. That although some foolish people have supposed that
the sea has been subsiding for centuries, yet, as we know
that the continents are crumbling into the ocean, you will
conclude that we shall at length find all our dry land under
watery and the sea increased in proportion to the square feet
of earth deposited under its surface.
* And therefore the writer of the article " Earth" in the Ency-
clopedia Britannica is wrong in attempting to overturn this fine fabrick
of philosophy, by making it appear that metals, minerals, fossils, &c.
are continually forming by accretion, he on the earth's surface.
Indeed, that writer has laid a heavy hand on all the theories of our
modern earthmongers.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 91
Thus give an unexpected vent,
To Hutton's fires m prison pent.
We'll fan his furnace by a pair
Of bellows made of Franklin's air, 8?
6. That it is evident that this central heat, having raised
its continents, and put proper supporters under them, will go
to work in due time, and raise new continents from the
bottom of the ocean. Thus the area of Dr Hutton's cen-
tre will be enlarged, till the earth and moon will come in
contact, if our plan hereafter mentioned should not check
such progression. But we forbear, lest when it is ascer-
tained that " the present continents are all going to decay
and their materials descending into the ocean," it may
cause some disagreeable sensations among our friends,
who are speculators in American lands, whose property, it
seems, according to Dr. Hutton's theory, is about to take
French leave of its worthy proprietors.
When you have thoroughly saturated your faculties with
this theory, we will oblige you with a fresh solution from
Dr. Darwin, compounded as follows :
" The variation of the compass can only be accounted
for by supposing the central parts of the earth to consist
of a fluid mass, and that part of this fluid is iron, which
requiring a greater degree of heat to bring it into fusion
than glass or other metals, remains a solid ore. The vis
inertix of this fluid mass with the iron in it occasions it ta
perform fewer revolutions than the crust of solid earth
over it ; and thus it is gradually left behind, and the place
where the floating iron resides, is pointed to by the direct
or retrograde motion of the magnetick needle."
92 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
The waves of which are useful found
In revolutions under ground. 88
87
Of bellows made of Franklin's air.
In the first paper of the third volume of Transactions
of the American Philosophical Society, you will find cer-
tain " Conjectures concerning the formation of the earth,"
&c. in a letter from Dr. B. Franklin, to the abbe Soulavie
;
which we would prescribe as tonicks to Hutton's system.
The American sage informs us, that in the course of some
observations in Derbyshire, in England, he " imagined
that the internal part (of the earth) might be a fluid more
dense, and of greater specifick gravity than any of the
solids we are acquainted with ; which therefore might
swim in or upon that fluid. Thus the surface of the globe
would be a shell, capable of being broken and disordered
by any violent movements of the fluid on which it rested.
And as air has been compressed by art so as to be twice
as dense as water, in which case, if such air and water
could be contained in a strong glass vessel, the air would
be seen to take the lowest place, and the water to float
above and upon it ;* and as we know not yet the degree
of density to which air may be compressed ; and M. Amon-
tons calculated, that its density increasing as it approached
the centre in the same proportion as above the surface, it
would at the depth of — leagues be heavier than gold,
possibly the dense fluid occupying the internal parts of the
globe might be air compressed. And as the force of ex-
pansion in dense air, when heated, is in proportion to its
density ; this central air might afford another agent to move
the surface, as well as be of use in keeping alive the subter*
raneous fires : though as you observe, the sudden rarefac-
tion of water coming into contact with those fires may
* I am afraid after all, this would turn out but a bubble.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 93
Then pour in suddenly the ocean
To give eclat to our explosion,
also be an agent sufficiently strong for that purpose, when
acting between the incumbent earth and the fluid on which
it rests.
" If one might indulge imagination in supposing how
such a globe was formed, I should conceive, that all the
elements in separate particles being originally mixed in
confusion, and occupying a great space, they would as
soon as the almighty fiat ordained gravity or the mutual
attraction of certain parts and the mutual repulsion of
other parts to exist, all move towards their common centre
:
That the air being a fluid whose parts repel each other,
though drawn to the common centre by their gravity,
would be densest towards the centre and rarer as
more remote ; consequently all matters lighter than the
central part of that air and immersed in it, would recede
from the centre and rise till they arrived at that region of
the air which was of the same specifick gravity with them-
selves, where they would rest ; while other matter, mixed
with the lighter air would descend, and the two meeting-
would form the shell of the first earth, leaving the upper
atmosphere nearly clear.* The original movement of the
parts towards their common centre would naturally form
* Now, if it should happen that the comparative levity of air
consists in the repellant powers of its particles, and those bodies
which have the greatest cohesion are most prone to gravitate, there
" needs Dr. Franklin's ghost to tell us," what should hinder bodies
of greater specifick gravity from riddling down between his particles
of air. No man but Dr. Franklin could have caught the fugitive
air under the shell of the first earth, and pressed it till it became
heavier than gold by a tmrly burly of elements " mixed in con-
fusion."
94 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
For that your worships know, or may know,
Adds mightily to a volcano.
a whirl there, which would continue in the turning of the
new formed globe upon its axis, and the greatest diameter
of the shell would be in its equator. If by any accident after-
wards the axis should be changed," [viz. by the impinging
of a Button's comet's tail or the delivery of Darwin's
moon] u the dense internal fluid by altering its form must
burst the shell, and throw all its substance into the con-
fusion in which we find it !" There's an air gun for your
worships
!
Now, if we did not possess a particular partiality for the
sage who formed this system, we should probably break
up his Eolian cave, even at the risk of creating half a
hundred hurricanes. For should we open a vent as large
as a needle's point into this magazine of compressed air,
you would instantly be assailed by " an other guess whist-
ling"* than was the tempest tost Trojan fleet when
Una Eurusque Notusque ruunt creberque procellis.
S8 In revolutions under ground.
"The globe," says the doctor—Transactions of the Ame-
rican Philosophical Society, vol.iii. p. 4. " being now become
a permanent magnet, we are, perhaps, safe from any fu-
ture change of its axis. But we are subject to the accidents
on the surface which are occasioned by a wave in the in-
ternal ponderous fluid." The doctor then proceeds, and
affords us a very fine earthquake by the agitation of this
central fluid.
* The " Monthly Reviewer" of our late edition of Tractoration,
•would have it that ourself was a Scotchman " frac the north,"
&c. Now here's a yankee phrase, merely to convince you that they
were out in their conjectures.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 95
Each orifice will then give birth
To grand satellites for earth,
Disploded dreadfully ! dear me
!
Like Darwin's moon from southern sea.
How will the universe admire
When my vast bickering moons of fire
In grand Darwinian style shall rise
Like burning mountains through the skies
Although our grand explosions must
Destroy good doctor Burnet's crust, ^
89 Destroy good doctor Burnet's crust.
We should be able to make much more rapid progress
in our sublime flights of poetry, were we not under the
necessity of dismounting from our Pegasus every ten paces
in order to give your worships a hoist, and thus enable
yourponderosities, like Mr. Pope's " slugs," to keep up with
us. It is a thousand to one if any one of your college has
ever heard of Dr. Burnet, of earth-manufacturing memo-
ry. But it is absolutely necessary that you should know
something of Dr. Burnet's theory before you can com-
prehend the stanza to which this note has reference.
You will therefore shut up this my volume and beg from
some circulating library, or borrow Dr. Burnets theory of
the earth's formation ; and when you have diligently
drudged through that treatise, we will again take you in
tow, and permit you to accompany us but non passibus
equis, till our muse salutes you with procul ! O procul ! 8cc
96 MODERN PHILOSOPHER,
From candle savings we'll endeavour
To make his shell as good as ever.
Now when we've made our batch of moons,
Philosophers, unless they're loons,
Will, though we're such a surly gnostick
Name one of them "Great Doctor Caus-
tick !"
Could tell what time, on Hutton's notion,
Would " duck" the earth beneath the ocean ;
9Q
9° Would " duck" the earth beneath the ocean.
It would be the highest act of injustice and ingratitude
to professor Playfair not to own that he supplied us with
the principal principles necessary for the solution of this
stupendous problem. See what he says ! and see how
happily it is said !—as follows :
" It is highly interesting to trace up the action of causes
with which we are familiar, to the production of effects,
which at first seem to require the introduction of unknown
and extraordinary powers ; and it is no less interesting to
observe, how skilfully nature has balanced the action of all
the minute causes of waste, and rendered them conducive
to the general good. Of this we have a most remarkable
instance, in the provision made for preserving the soil,
or the coat of vegetable mould, spread out over the surface
of the earth. This coat, as it consists of loose materials,
is easily washed away by the rains, and is continually
diminished ; its lower parts being transported from higher
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 97
And when and how would be unfurl'd,
A new edition of the world.9 '
to lower levels, and finally delivered into the sea. This
effect is visible to every one ; the earth is removed not
only in the form of sand and gravel, but its finer particles
suspended in the waters, tinge those of some rivers con-
tinually, and those of all occasionally ; that is, when they
are flooded or swollen with rains. The quantity of earth
thus carried down varies according to circumstances. It
has been computed, in some instances, that the water of a
river in a flood contains earthy matter suspended in it,
amounting to more than the two hundred and fiftieth part
of its own bulk." Here you find our data.
The gentleman proceeds with a little too much circum-
rotundity for us to quote him to show that the disintegra-
tion of rocks supplies this wear and tear of the vegetable
mould of continents and islands, washed into the sea as
before stated.
There are some other sublime matters mentioned by
the learned doctor, and adduced in proof of his central
heats, respecting the penetration of wood by meltedflint ! I
Of which you must say " credo quia non possibile est."
Now, if we were not mortally adverse to the spoiling of
a beautiful theory, we should set it with its wrong end
uppermost in a moment, by something like what follows.
We should say that metals, minerals, and fossils are
daily forming and increasing by accretion and certain
other mysterious operations of nature, on and near the
surface of the earth, without the aid of Dr. Hutton's lamina
in the bottom of the ocean, or fusion by central heat.
98 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
Like us was never man besides
For managing aerial tides,
We should also observe, that there is a continual accu-
mulation of earth in many places, caused by the recre-
ments of vegetable and animal substances ; which vegetable
and animal substances are supplied, originally, in a great
measure with nourishment by vapours and clouds raised
from the sea ; and that it is very possible that this accu-
mulation, which is greatest on high lands and mountains,
covered with woods, in consequence of their superiour
attraction of such vapours, may be able to counterbalance
the so much dreaded " detritus," which seems to threaten
them with eventual submersion in the ocean. But we
make it a point never to kick over the theory of a fine
philosopher.
91 A new edition of the world.
Mr. Playfair upon Hutton, having fairly washed the
World under water, proceeds to sketch the outlines of a
picture, which our masterly hand could alone finish.
" We are not," he says, " however, to imagine, that
there is no where any means of repairing this waste ; for,
on comparing the conclusion at which we are now arrived,
viz. that the present continents are all going to decay, and
their materials descending into the ocean with the pro-
position first laid down, that these same continents are
collected from materials which must have been collected
from the decay of former rocks, it is impossible not to
recognise two corresponding steps of the same progress ;
of a progress, by which mineral substances are subjected
to the same series of changes, and alternately wasted away
and renovated. In the same manner as the present mine-
ral substances derive their origin from substance similar
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 99
Franklin was not so great a schemer,
Volney a much less windy dreamer.92
to themselves ; so from the land now going to decay, the
sand and gravel forming on the sea shore, or in the beds
of rivers ; from the shells and corals which in such enor-
mous quantities are every day accumulated in the bosom
of the sea ; from the drift wood, and the multitude of vege-
table and animal remains continually deposited in the
ocean ; from all these we cannot doubt* that strata are
now forming in those regions, to which nature seems to
have confined the powers of mineral reproduction ; from
which, after being consolidated, they are again destined
to emerge, and to exhibit a series of changes similar to
the past." Illustrations of the Huttonian Theory, p. 118
—19.
Here you have the how : as to the when, Mr. Playfair
tells you that " Time performs the office of integrating
the infinitesimal parts of which this progression is made
up ; it collects them into one sum, and produces from
them an amount greater than any that can be assigned."
We have kept the reckoning for " time," and have,
made an infinite number of " infinitesimals," which alto-
gether amount to an afiroximation of the precise period of
the integration.
92
Volney a much less windy dreamer.
The author of the Pursuits of Literature says that he
could
" give with Darwin, to the hectick kind
Receipts in verse to shift the north-east wind ;"
and that a man, to be qualified for speculations of this sort.
100 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
We gagg'd sage Darwin's polar bear,
And would not let him " vomit air," ,3
ought to possess an intellect adapted to solving the follow-
ing problem in natural philosophy.
" Whether, the hybernal frigidity of the antipodes, pass,
ing in an orthogonal line through the homogeneous solidity
of the centre might warm the superficial convexity of our
heels by a soft antiperistasis ?"
It is indeed wonderful how far the ingenuity of a very
astute hypothesizing philosopher will sometimes carry him,
provided he does not fetter himself with common sense.
The invocation of Mr Higgins in the Loves of the
Triangles to the "divine nonsensia" ought to be adopted
by most of our penetrating geniuses, who are so renowned
for theory building.
This Monsieur Citizen Volney published a kind of cir-
cular letter, requesting the cooperation of men of similar
views and intellects with his own, to make out a correct
theory of winds, and seemed to entertain no doubt, but
that lie could manage aerial currents, much better than a
stage driver can a coach horse.
Dr. Franklin's speculations on the same subject are not
a li M le notable. His tropical hurricanes, caused by a
whirligig descent of cold air from the upper to the lower
regions, are very fine phenomena. His north cast storms,
which begin their operations on our continent, at the south
west, in consequence of some extra rarefaction of air,
some where near the isthmus of Darien, deserve a minute
inspection. The ascent of rarefied air at the equator,
which whifiles away to the poles and visits us in the form
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 101
Thus spoil'd the Boreal ventilator
And made a vacuum at the equator.
of a frigorifick north-wester, as explained by Darwin, re-
quires due consideration from your worships. But we do
not think it possible, by a single impulse, to beat all this
philosophy into your right worshipful sconces. You will,
therefore, please to wait till we have leisure for the ope-
ration.
" 3 And would not let him " vomit air."
This terrible bear is likewise a camelion, and also «.
dragon. But here you have him.
** Castled on ice, beneath the circling bear,
A vast camelion drinks and vomits air :
O'er twelve degrees his ribs gigantick bend,
And many a league his gasping jaws extend
;
Halffish beneath, his scaly volutes spread,
And vegetable plumage crests his head ;
Huge fields of air his wrinkled skin receives,
From panting gills, wide lungs, and waving leaves j*
Then with dread throes subsides his bloated form,
His shriek the thunder, and his sigh the storm."
Botanick Garden*
And again in prose.
" Though the immediate cause of the destruction or
reproduction of great masses of air, at certain times when
the wind changes from north to south, or from south to
north, cannot yet be ascertained ; yet as there appears
greater difficulty in accounting for this change of wind
* " Divine Nonsensia."
102 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
And then, by Doctor Priestley's aid,
A vital atmosphere was made,
And stretch'd abroad, and found to answer,
From Capricorn quite on to Cancer.
We set an air balloon in motion
To float on th' atmospherick ocean,
Annex'd a log, which never fail'd,
To give the distance which it sail'd.
And form'd a rudder, I assure it ye,
By which we steer'd with great security,
And could make good our destination
To any harbour in creation.
And we had nineteen pair of oars,
All mann'd with philosophick rowers,
from any other known causes, we may still suspect that
there exists in the arctick and antarctick circles, a bear
or dragon, yet unknown to philosophers, which at times
suddenly drinks u/i, and at other times as suddenly vomits
out one fifteenth part of the atmosphere : and hope that
this or some future age will learn how to govern and do-
mesticate a monster which might be rendered of such
important service to mankind." ! ! I
Botanick Garden. Note XXXIII.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 103
Could therefore sail without a breeze,
Or stem a hurricane with ease. 94
94 Or stem a hurricane with ease.
" Many schemes" (it is said in Rees's Cyclopedia, ar-
ticle Aerostation) " have been proposed for directing the
horizontal motion of balloons. Some have thought of an-
nexing sails to a balloon, in order to ;give it the advan-
tage of the wind ; but to this proposal it has been objected,
that as the aerostatick machines are at rest with respect to
the air that surrounds them, they feel no wind, and con-
sequently can derive no benefit from the sails " None
but a conjuror, however, could have made that discovery.
But Dr. Rees says further, that " An ingenious writer ob-
serves, that the case of vessels at sea is quite different
from that of balloons ; because that the former move with
a velocity incomparably less than that of the wind im-
pelling them, on account of the resistance of the water,"
&c. This ingenious writer must have had a new edition
of Friar Bacon's head on his shoulders.
Our mode of steering a balloon is an improvement on
the invention of Professor Danzel, which is thus described
by Dr. Rees. " Professor Danzel has constructed two
cylinders, or axles, to the ends of which are fixed, in the
form of a cross, four sails or oars, moveable at the point
of their insertion in the cylinder, in such a manner, that
when made to move round by means of a handle, the eight
oars, like the cogs of a water mill wheel, present, suc-
cessively, sometimes their flat side and sometimes their
edge," Sec.
It is very possible that you may have heard of some of
our American mechanical geniuses, who have sometimes
come vctij nigh to the art of navigating boats against the
104 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
By aid of this our grand invention
Some few months hence 'tis our intention,
To steer with fleet of air balloons
To colonize our 'foresaid moons.
A most inveterate believer
In importation of our fever
;
Will point you to the harpy nest
In which was bred the horrid pest.
'Twas hatch'd in subterrannean cell
In hottest heat of Hutton's h—II,
And dire volcanoes gave it birth,
Which shook the pillars of the earth. 95
stream by the force of the current. But our invention is
very materially different from that. We manage much
like a crab or lobster that paddles himself forward under
water, and proceeds as well as if he actually carried sail.
»5 Which shook the pillars of the earth.
All this is very evident from Mr. Webster's " History
of Pestilence," which " proves beyond doubt, that the
approach of comets to our system has a prodigious in-
fluence on the elements of this globe ;" and that " it ap-
pears to be a general law of nature that the approach of
comets to this earth calls into action the subterranean
fire, and volcanoes discharge their contents during or
within a few months of the appearance of comets."
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 105
And when its " egg of night" was burst, 96
In Africk's torrid zone 'twas nurst, 97
But sometimes makes us visitations
To punish our abominations.
And pray believe us now we beg,
We hatch'd the first imported egg,
Though truly with some conscience-prickings,
Much as Egyptians hatch their chickens.
We play'd, we'll own, our mind so rack'd is,
This prank to pave our way to practice j
96 And when its " egg of night" was burst.
This, with your leave, is a very sublime allegory some
what similar to Dr. Darwin's " Love Divine" producing
the world from the u egg of night, as it floated in chaos.
*
Botanick Garden, Canto i.
97 In Africk's torrid zone 'twas nurst.
So says Dr. Mead, Dr. Chisholm, and many other ad-
vocates for specifick contagion. Some contend that pu-
trefaction cannot be sufficiently virulent to produce
this fever in any part of the world but Africa. The
plague, however, which ravaged London in the year 1665,
if imported into that city must have originated in Hol-
land. But this is only one exception to a general rule.
Besides, I have no doubt that the Dutch cultivated that
exotick in hot-beds, as they afterwards did tulips.
106 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
Our object was to extend the curse,
And thereby to distend our purse.
As to th' extent of its dominion
We'll favour you with our opinion
;
But when we greet you next, you'll please
To give security for fees.
This dire disorder is contagious,
And its contagion is outrageous;98
98 A.id its contagion is outrageous.
Some people, who appear to be fond of an opportu-
nity of spoiling a beautiful theory, have produced against
contagion the following arguments, and thereby very much
perplexed a simple subject which ought to have been de-
rided simply by the ipse dixit of some famous personage
i>f the faculty.
1. The disorder is propagated more rapidly than could
be possible on the theory of contagion ; as it spreads over
a large city quicker than the small pox would pervade a
single alley.
2. It assimilates to itself all other diseases, and forces
them to wear its livery ; which never is the case in conta-
gious disorders.
3. It is destroyed by frost; but frost increases the activi-
ty of contagion.
4. It is an endemick, and must have its own local at-
mosphere, beyond whose limits it cannot be communica-
ted. Thus the attendants of the sick in country hospitals
are never known to be infected.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 107
'Twill flourish, sirs, no matter where,
On dryest soil, in purest air.
It is an animalcule, which
Is propagated like the itch :
Communicated like small-pox,
But never bred in dirty docks.
From patient's breath an emanation,
Or given by inoculation ;
Though Webster says he's seen it sail
Through ether on a comet's tail.
From friends infected, children, wives,
Let all men scamper for their lives,
The wretches shun like Charon's ferry,
And leave the dead themselves to bury.
I know some simpletons have said,
A kind of fever may be bred,
Merely by heat and putrefaction,
Which suits our theorists to a fraction.
These, and fifty other arguments of a similar nature, I
overturn by the weight of the authority of Dr. Mead and
other great men, which I have found to be a concise and
conclusive way of stopping the mouths of my opponents.
108 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
They tell you, if these causes may
Produce the plague in Africa,
It would to common sense appear
They might make shift to make it here
—
That true philosophy expects
From all like causes like effects ;
For nature never play'd a prank
To cheat us like a mountebank.
But these " dull fools" wont understand
That, being Freedom's favour'd land,
Nature obliges us with flaws,
And sometimes breaks her general laws.
By strict attention to its tilth
We find its enmity to filth,
That 'tis offended when it meets
Dead dogs, and so forth, in the streets.
Therefore our cits, in sultry weather
Should scrape their dirtiness together,
And then contrive to lodge it pretty
Near to the centre of the city.
The fever meeting such a mound
Will show his backsides, I'll be bound,
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 109
And leave the happy filth -protected
Good citizens quite uninfected.
Thus Darwin's squabby fiend that sits
Astride a hag in hyst'rick fits,
"
In half the time that one could wink
Evanishes before a stink,
,0°
99 Astride a hag in hys'trick fits.
" So on his Nightmare, through the evening fog
Flits the squab fiend o'er fen, and lake, and bog ;
Seeks some love-wilder'd maid with sleep oppress'd,
Alights and grinning sits upon her breast.
Back o'er her pillow sinks her blushing head,
Her snow-white limbs hang helpless from the bed ;
While with quick sighs, and suffocative breath
Her interrupted heart-fiulse swims in death.*
On her fair bosom sits the demon-ape
Erect, and balances his bloated shape
;
Rolls in their marble orbs his Gorgon-eyes,
And drinks with leathern ears her tender cries."
The worst of it was, however, that she could not cry,
poor thing, because " the will presides not in the bower of
6leep." But you will please to read the whole passage.
Botanick Garden, Canto 'in. from line 50 to line 79.
ioo
Evanishes before a stink.
This, to be sure, is not a very genteel line. Such as it is,
however, it is much at your service. We are happy to
observe that our modern poets are generally careful to
* A " swimming heart-pulse" is a wonderful figure.
110 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
Your worships being on this scent
Will snuff another argument,
present us whatever poison may be expedient, to please the
palates of their readers, in a silver chalice, and make it, as
luscious as possible by the honey of their diction. But
our criticks will please to recollect, that we are not writing
a song for a love lorn lady, a " sentimental ensign," nor any
of those frisking gentry described by Mr. Gifford in the
Baviad. No ; we are addressing a scientifick body, on a
scientifick subject, and therefore are justified in the use
of language which would highly offend the olfactories
of ladies and ladies-men. You will find, however, in a
collection of essays and poetry from the Anti-Jacobin or
Weekly Examiner, second edition, p. 533, that a very
polished gentleman gives the following account of the in-
conveniences attending a trip to sea.
" There was great Dr. P—r, whom we style Bellende-
nus ;
The doctor and I have a hammock between us,
'Tis a little unpleasant thus crowding together,
On account of the motion and heat of the weather ;
Two souls in one birth they oblige us to cram,
And sir John will insist on a place for his ram.
Though the doctor, 1 find, is determin'd to think
'Tis the animal's hide that occasions the stink ;
In spite of th' experienc'd opinion of Truman,
Who contends that the scent is exclusively human,
But Beddoes and Darwin engage to repair
This slight inconvenience with oxygene air."
You will likewise find an authority for the use of this
unsavoury verb, in Mr. Pope's Dunciad, where, in the
games instituted by the goddess of Dulness, we find a
hero happily distinguished in a race
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. HI
Which has by journalists been bandied,
And, though not very sweety is candVd.
Filth on earth's surface, it is clear,
Its like attracts from th' atmosphere,
And makes a wondrous pure vicinity,
By laws of chymical affinity.
101
Our citizens, their next resource,
Should ope a " social intercourse,"
By digging channels through their mounds
'Twixt vaults and wells and burying grounds.
For such good management ensures
Against th' expense of digging sewers,
Because one well, 'tis very plain,
May serve ten privies for a drain.
(t Vig'rous he rises ; from th' effluvia strong
Imbibes new life and scours and stinks along."
101
By laws of chymical affinity.
Many an elaborate argument of that kind has been
made publick, during our disputes respecting the origin
of the American plague. Madrid and Edinburgh, it is
affirmed, are much the more healthy in consequence of
a nastiness which is proverbial. This no doubt is sound
reasoning, and my judicious directions which follow are
founded on a similar basis.
112 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
These things accomplish'd they must mind
And put what dead folks they can find
Scarce under ground, in the most populous
Parts they can pick in each metropolis.
For 'twould be decorous, at least,
In memory of friends deceas'd,
To strive to answer two good ends,
To drink to, and to drink our friends.
Thus Artemisia ('twas, I think)
Made her dead husband diet drink,
And thereby, probably enough,
She sav'd a deal of doctor's stuff.
They next will scoop each crowded place in
The form of something like a basin,
The bottom of the lowest part
They'll make the centre of the mart.
I0i
102 They'll make the centre of the mart.
They are performing wonders in New York, in the
way of securing to themselves, and entailing on their
posterity the privilege of dying with this sublime disorder.
But for further information we would refer your worships
to No. 1. of our additional notes, appended to the end of
•ur poem.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 113
Now, after all these things are finish'd
I would not have their zeal diminish'd,
For 'tis a maxim, ever true
That nought is done if aught's to do.
They next must go to work and grub
Up every root, and tree, and shrub,
Each trace of vegetation found
In town and out for ten miles round.
Their " useful labours" to complete
In every square, and market street,
By way of ornament they'll please
To set out Bohun Upas trees.
If, after all, they find the fiend
Of fever manfully contend,
Swear like a certain other caitiff
In open court that he's a native.
To stop his progress my advice is
To tow us down the polar ices ;
For when a field or two is brought us
'Twill force the fiend to winter quarters*
114 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
This thing your worships well know can
Be done on Dr. Darwin's plan,
And 'tis the best thing, past a doubt,
Our gun boats can be set about.
These, among many, are but few,
Of mighty things which I could do
;
All which I'll state, if 'tis your pleasure,
Much more at large when more at leisure.
Now it appears from what I state here,
My plans for mending human nature
Entitle me to take the chair
From Rousseau, Godwin, or Voltaire.
They are of most immense utility ;
All tend to man's perfectibility
;
And if pursu'd, I dare to venture ye,
He'll be an angel in a century.
Although St. Pierre, a knowing chap,
Deserves a feather in his cap,
For having boldly set his foot on
The foolish trash of Isaac Newton ;
103
I03 The foolish trash of Isaac Newton.
See Studies of Nature, by St. Pierre, in which that
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 115
Contriv'd a scheme, which very nice is
;
For making tides of polar ices.
scheming philosopher has, with wonderful adroitness, swept
away the cobweb calculations of one Isaac Newton. In-
deed, I never much admired the writings of the last men-
tioned gentleman, for the substantial reasons following.
In the first place, the inside of a man's noddle must be
better furnished than that of St. Pierre, or he will never
be able to comprehend them.
Secondly, it would be impossible to manufacture a
system, like that of St. Pierre, accounting for the various
phenomena of nature, in a new and simple method, if one
were obliged to proceed, like Newton, in his Princi/iia,
in a dull, plodding, mathematical manner, and firovc, or
even render firobable, the things he asserts. But by taking
some facts for granted, without proof, omitting to mention
such as militate against a favourite theory, we may, with
great facility, erect a splendid edifice of " airy nothings,"
founded on hypotheses without foundation.
The said Isaac had taken it into his head that the earth's
equatorial was longer than its polar diameter. This he
surmised from the circumstance of a pendulum vibrating
slower near the equator than near the pole, and from finding
that the centrifugal force of the earth would not fully ac-
count for the difference between the time of the vibrations
at Cayenne and at Paris.
This, with other reasons equally plausible, led him to
suppose that the earth was flattened near the poles, in the
form of an oblate spheroid, and that a degree of latitude
would, of consequence, be greater near the pole than at
the equator. Actual admeasurement coincided with that
conclusion.
116 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
And fed old Ocean's tub with fountains,
From arctick and antartick mountains.
Though Mister Godwin told us how
To make a clever sort of plough, I04
The abbe St. Pierre, however, possessing a most lau-
dable ambition to manufacture tides from polar ices, and
thus to overturn Sir Isaac's theory relative to the moon's
influence in producing those phenomena, and finding it
somewhat convenient tor that purpose to place his poles
at a greater distance from the center of gravity than the
equator, accordingly took that liberty. He likewise had
another substantial reason therefor. Unless his polar dia-
meter was longer than his equatorial, the tides, being
caused by the fusion of polar ices, must flow up hill.
He therefore drew a beautiful diagram with which a
triangle would (according to the scheme of the author
of The Loves of the Triangles, improved from Dr. Dar-
win's Loves of the Plants) certainly fall in love at first
sight. (See page xxxiv. Pref. Studies of Nature.) In dis-
playing his geometrical skill in this diagram, however, he
took care to forget that there was some little difference
between an oblong and an oblate spheroid.—That flattening
the earth's surface, either in a direction perpendicular or
parallel to the poles, would increase the length of a
degree of latitude by decreasing the earth's convexity.—
.
That neither an oblate, nor an oblong spheroid was quite
so s/iherical as a perfeet sjihere. This was very proper,
because such facts would have been conclusive against
his new Theory of the Tides.
I04 To make a clever sort of plough.
If you wish, gentlemen, to know any thing further rela-
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 117
Which would e'en set itself to work,
And plough an acre in a jerk.
Though Price's projects are so clever,
They show us how to live for ever
'° 5
Unless we blunder, to our cost,
And break our heads against a post
!
Though Darwin, thinking to dismay us,
Made dreadful clattering in chaos,
live to this instinctive plough, you will^take the trouble to
consult Mr. Godwin's Political Justice, in which you will
find almost as many sublime and firacticable schemes for
meliorating the condition of man, as in this very erudite
work of my own. Let it not be inferred from my not en-
larging upon the present and other schemes of this philo-
sopher, that I would regard him as one whit inferiour to
any other modern philosopher existing, not even excepting
his friend Holcroft ; but the necessity of expatiating on
the redundancy of Mr. Godwin's merits is totally pre-
cluded by the unbounded fame which his chaste productions
have at length acquired among the virtuous and respecta-
ble classes in community.
105 They show us how to live for ever.
The learned Dr. Price, in his Tracts on Civil Liber-
ty, assures us that such sublime discoveries will be here-
after made by men of science (meaning such as Dr.
Caustick) that it will be possible to cure the disease of
old age, give man a perpetual sublunary existence, ami
introduce the millenium, by natural causes.
118 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
And form'd, with horrid quakes t' assist him,
His new exploded solar system.
Io6
,o6
His new exploded solar system.
" Through all the realms the kindling ether runs,
And the mass starts into a million suns
;
Earths round each sun with quick explosions burst,
And second planets issue from the first
;
Bend, as they journey with projectile force,
In bright ellipses their reluctant course ;
Orbs wheel in orbs, round centres centres roll,
And form, self-balanc'd, one revolving whole.''
Botanick Garden, Canto i.
This sublime philosopher has been most atrociously
squibbed in the following performance, which I can assure
you, gentlemen, is not mine ; and, if I could meet with
the author, I would teach him better than to bespatter my
favourite with the filth of his obloquy.
" Lines on a certain philosopher, who maintains that all
continents and islands were thrown from the sea by volca-
noes ; and that all animal life originally sprang from the
cxuvix of fishes. His family arms are three scallop shells,
and his motto " Omnia e Conchis."
" From atoms in confusion hurl'd,
Old Epicurus built a world ;
—
Maintain'd that all was accidental,
Whether corporeal powers, or mental ;
That feet were not devis'd for walking,
For eating teeth; nor tongues for talking ;
But chance, the casual texture made,
And thus each member found its trade.
And in this hodge podge of stark nonsense,
He buried virtue, truth, and conscience
—
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 119
Though Volney, having in his Fiew,
First peer'd our continent through and through, 107
Darwin at last resolves to list
Under this grand cosmogonist.
He too renounces his Creator,
And solves all sense from senseless matter ;
Makes men start up from dead fish bones,
As old Deucalion did from stones
;
Forms mortals quick as eyes could twinkle,
From lobster, crab, and periwinkle
—
Oh Doctor ! Change thy foolish motto,
Or keep it for some lady's grotto :
Else thy poor patients well may quake,
If thou canst no more mend than make."
—
107 First peer'd our continent through and through.
Citizen Volney made a very curious, simple, and con-
venient division of the ' Interiour Structure" of the United
States, from certain specimens of mineral substances,
collected by this industrious pedestrian in a tour of obser-
vation through the United States. Notwithstanding the
immense extent of territory which has come under citi-
zen Volney's cognizance, and the short time which he
did us the honour to reside and peregrinate among us,
we find that he was able to parcel our continent inco different
interiour departments, with as much precision as Buona-
parte shows in marking the different provinces of his
empire. He gives ua " The granite region, the grit or
sand stone region, the calcareous or lime stone region,"
&c. &c.
Now this division is the more ingenious, because it
possesses no foundation in nature ; and therefore shows a
wonderful invention in its author. It happens, luckily
120 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
Left us a specimen of the quality
Of graduated French morality.
Io8
for this fine theory, that granite is found in wonderful
abundance in the lime stone region, and that throughout
the continent, in defiance of Mr. Volney, we find that
nature has jumbled all his " regions" together. Na-
ture, having made some confusion in this way, has the
more need of the assistance of modern philosophy to aid
her defective operations.
jo8 Of graduated French morality.
This gentleman published in America a small pam-
phlet entitled, The Law of Nature, or Principles of
Morality, deduced from the Physical Constitution of
Mankind and the Universe. In this he tells us, " It is
high time to prove that morality is a physical and geome-
trical science, and as such susceptible, like the rest, of
calculation and mathematical demonstration."
My friend, doctor Timothy Triangle, is much such ano-
ther philosopher ; but has surpassed the Frenchman in
the extent of his views, and made systems which were
entirely out of the reach of Mr. Volney's intellect.
Among others, was a scale of national character. By this
the latitude and longitude of a place being given, and a
sort of tare and tret allowance made for adventitious cir-
cumstances, he could ascertain the character of its inha-
bitants. The latitude of Paris, he affirmed, was that of
perfectibility made perfect, and most lucidly manifested
in the person of the Liberty-loving emperour. Rise to
the equator, or recede to the pole from that parallel, and
human nature dwindles in arithmetical progression.
This gentleman was a great admirer of the principles of
the French revolution, and made out, mathematically..
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 121
Though Priestley manufactur'd souls,
For which we had him o'er the coals,
how much blood, horrour . and devastation would be ne-
cessary to give that predominance to France and French
principles, which would terminate in philosophy's mil-
lennium. In fact, he dictated to philosopher Godwin the
idea so happily expressed in his Political Justice as fol-
lows.
" Perhaps no important revolution was ever bloodless.
It may be useful in this place to recollect in what the
mischief of shedding blood consists. The abuses which
at present exist in all political societies are so enormous,
the oppressions which are exercised so intolerable, the
ignorance and vice they entail so dreadful, that possibly a
dispassionate inquirer might decide, that, if their anni-
hilation could be purchased by an instant sweeping of
every human being now arrived at years of maturity, from
the face of the earth, the purchase would not be too dear.
It is not because human life is of so considerable value,
that we ought to recoil from the shedding of blood. Death
is in itself among the slightest of human evils. An earth-
quake, which should swallow up a hundred thousand in-
dividuals at once, would chiefly be to be regretted for the
anguish it entailed upon survivers ; in a fair estimate of
those it had destroyed, it would often be comparatively
a trivial event."
Dr. Triangle likewise made geometrical scales of morality,
which were not very essentially different from the princi-
ples of Volney- These scales were adapted accurately to
the interest, feelings, passions, and prepossessions of the
persons for whom they were intended, and so elastick that
they would stretch to suit any case, and authorize any
action which could be conceived or perpetrated.
R
122 MODERN PHILOSOPHER,
A thing we had forgot to mention
For making use of our invention.
—
BufFon, with other wonders done
A comet dash'd athwart the sun,
And hitting off a flaming slice
Our earth created in a trice.
These wights, when taken altogether
Are but the shadow of a feather
Compar'd with Caustick, even as
A puff of hydrogenous gas.
Should you pronounce my systems lax
For want of some astringent facts
I'll knock you down, by my surprising
New method of philosophizing.
I first a fine new system form,
Which none can either sap or storm
;
Then, to support my favourite plan
I muster all the facts I can.
For, since somebody says or sings,
These facts are counted stubborn things,
From east, west, north and south I rake 'em,
And when not ready made—I make them ! !
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 123
Thus, for posterity's behoof,
We've made our theories bullet proof;
Assailing us with ire red hot,
Is battering walls with pigeon shot.
But I, in spite of my renown,
Alas ! am harass'd, hunted down
;
Completely damn'd, the simple fact is,
By Perkins's Metallick Practice !
,p9
Our should-be wise and learn 'd societies
Are guilty of great improprieties,
In treating me in manner scandalous,
As if I were a very Vandal ; thus
Determin'd, as I have no doubt,
My sun of genius to put out,
Which, once extinct, they think that so 'tis
Their glow-worm lights may claim some notice.
109 By Perkins's Metallick Practice.
Here comes the Hydra, which you Herculean gentle-
men are requested to destroy ; but the means, by which
this great end is to be accomplished, will be fully pointed
out in the succeeding cantos.
124 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
Such hum-drum heads and hollow hearts
Pretend, forsooth, t' encourage arts!
But that pretence, in every sense is,
The flimsiest of all pretences.
Those noble spirited Mecenases
To me have shown the greatest meannesses
;
Have granted me for these things said all
Not one half-penny, nor a medal 1 !
!
CANTO II.
CONJURATIONS
ARGUMENT.
The Bard proceeds like one that's striving
To practise Arnall's art of diving ;
'
Presents sublime and strange narrations
Of wizards, ghosts, and conjurations
;
Next towers in Delia Cruscan style
Above old Homer half a mile ;
And flutters round in airy region,
Just like a wild goose or a pidgeon ;
Fir'd with the theme of Haygarth's praises
Until his rapture fairly blazes :
Then in a duel shows more prowess,
Than Vandal that e'er was, or now is.
BUT I'm a man so meek and humble, 2
I don't allow myself to grumble
1
" Not so bold Arnall ; with a weight of skull
Furious he drives precipitately dull
;
Whirlpools and storms his circling arms invest,
With all the weight of gravitation blest."
Pofie's Dunciad, book iii.
126 MODERN PHILOSOPHER,
Am loth your patience thus to batter,
Though starving is a serious matter
!
J
Another reason too, may't please ye,
Why thus I dare presume to tease ye ;
If you my wrongs should not redress,
We all must be in one sad mess !
4
2
But I'm a man so meek and humble.
If your worships have ever read the Eneid of one
Virgil (which though possible is not very /irobable, as
physicians in general rarely make themselves " mad," by
" too much learning") you will perceive a classical beauty
in the commencement of this canto, which would escape
the observation of the " ignoble vulgus." As I wish, how-
ever, that you might be able to relish some of the most
obvious beauties of this my most exquisite poetical pro-
duction you will hire some schoolmaster to show you how
happily we have imitated the " At regina gravi" of Vir-
gil, and the " But now t' observe romantick method" of
Butler.
3 Though starving is a serious matter !
Many a worthy London alderman will most feelingly
sigh a dolorous response to this pathetick complaint.
4 We all must be in one sad mess.
The sound is here a most correct echo to the sense
;
like the
of Homer ; the
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 127
The credit of our craft is waning,
Then rouse at this my sad complaining
;
For, though my fate now seem the rougher,
Still you as well as / must suffer.
Behold! A rising Institution, 5
To spread Perkinean delusion
;
Supported by a set of sturdy men,
Dukes, quakers, doctors, lords, and clergymen!
Quadrupedante putrem sonitu quatit ungula campum,
of Virgil ; the
Many a lusty thwack and bang,
of Butler ;
And ten low words oft creep in one dull line,
of Pope, &c. Indeed, gentlemen, I shall almost be
tempted to pronounce that person a sorry sort of a simple-
ton, who does not see, or seem to see, the lengthened
visage and hanging lip of our learned Esculapian Frater-
nity, depicted with the phiz-hitting pencil of a Hogarth,
in these eight beautiful and appropriate monosyllables.
5 Behold a rising Institution.
The builders of this second edition of the tower of Ba-
bel must be confounded ; and that they will be, most cer-
tainly, provided the measures herein after recommended,
be fully and manfully carried into effect. But as it may-
be safest to reconnoitre somewhat before we begin the
attack we will introduce you into the midst of the ene-
my's encampment in our additional note No. 2.
128 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
Unblushing at the knavish trick,
I fear these fellows soon will kick
(A thing of all things most uncivil)
One half our physick to the devil
!
And then, alas ! your worships may
Be forc'd to moil the live long day,
With hammer, pickaxe, spade, or shovel,
And nightly tenant some old hovel.
Or, destitute of food and lodging,
Through dark and dirty lanes be dodging,
Unless t'avoid such dismal lurkings,
You put a powerful paw on Perkins.
Behold what ought to raise your spleen high,
Perkins supposed by Aldini
!
6
6 Perkins supported by Aldini I
These two wonder-working wizards are said to effect
their necromantick manoeuvres by the application of similar
principles to the animal machine. But the latter does not
in so great a degree, infringe on our privileges, for he
begins where we tocoff; that is, after the patient is dmd
;
whereas Perkins, by his pretended easy and expeditious
mode of curing those who ought to depend solely on
" death and the doctor," is a more formidable foe to our
profession. See additional note, No. 3.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 129
It must have been most sad, foul weather,
From Italy to blow him hither.
My wrath, indeed, is now so keen, I
Ev'n wish, for sake of that Aldini,
This ink were poison for the wizard,
This pen a dagger in his gizzard !
For he ('tis told in publick papers)
Can make dead people cut droll capers
;
And shuffling off death's iron trammels,
To kick and hop like dancing camels.
To raise a dead dog he was able, 7
Though laid in quarters on a table,
? To raise a dead dog he was able.
" Dr. Aldini, now in London, lately exhibited, at the
house of Mr. Hunter, some curious experiments oh the
body of a dog newly killed, by which the company then
present were exceedingly astonished at the powers of
Galvanism. The head of the animal was cut off. The
head and the body were put beside each other on a table,
previously rubbed with a solution of Ammonia. Two
wires, communicating with the Galvanick trough, were
then applied, the one in the ear, the other at the anus of
the dead animal. No sooner had those applications been
made than both head and body were thrown into the most
animated muscular motions. The body started up Avith
s
130 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
And led him yelping, round the town,
With two legs up, and two legs down ;
*
And, in the presence of a posse
Of our great men, and Andreossi,
He show'd black art of worse description,
Than e'er did conjuring Egyptian.
He cut a bullock's head, I ween,
Sheer off, as if by guillotine
;
a movement, by which it passed over the side of the ta-
ble. The head equally moved, its lips and teeth grinning
most violently !" Vide the Morning Post of January 6th,
1803.
8
With two legs up, and two legs down.
Your worships will perceive that I have detailed some
particulars relative to this famous experiment, which were
omitted in the above statement from the Morning Post.
But should any gentleman among you presume to intimate
that I have stated one syllable which is not strictly and
literally true, I shall embrace the fashionable mode of re-
senting the affront. I have two pistols in my garret.
Let him who dares dispute Dr. Caustick take his choice.
Then, unless
" Pallas should come, in shape of rust,
And 'twixt the lock and hammer thrust
Her Gorgon shield, and make the cock
Stand stiff as 'twere transformed to stock,"
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 131
Then (Satan aiding the adventure)
He made it bellow like a Stentor !
9
And this most comical magician
Will soon, in publick exhibition,
Perform a feat he's often boas' ed,
And animate a dead pig roasted.
With powers of these Metallick Tractors,
He can revive dead malefactors ;
I will make it apparent that I am a man of honour, as
well as veracity.
9 He made it bellow like a Stentor
!
" Some curious Galvanick experiments were made on
Friday last, by professor Aldini, in doctor Pearson's lec-
ture room. They were instituted in the presence of his
excellency, the ambassadour of France, general Andreossi,
lord Pelham, the duke of Roxburgh, lord Castlereagh,
lord Hervey, the hon. Mr. Upton, &c. The head of an
ox, recently decapitated, exhibited astonishing effects ; for
the tongue being drawn out by a hook fixed into it, on
applying the exciters, in spite of the strength of the as-
sistant, was retracted, so as to detach itself, by tearing
itself from the hook ; at the same time, a loud noise issued
from the mouth, attended by violent contortions of the
whole head and eyes." See Morning Post of February
16th, 1803.
132 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
And is reanimating daily,
Rogues that were hung once, at Old Bailey !
"
And sure I am he'll break the peace,
Unless secur'd by our police ;
IO
Rogues that were hung once, at Old Bailey
!
" The body of Forster, who was executed on Monday
last, for murder, was conveyed to a house not far distant,
Avhere it was subjected to the Galvanick process, by pro-
fessor Aldini, under the inspection of Mr. Keate, Mr. Car-
pue and several other professional gentlemen. M. Aldini,
who is the nephew of the discoverer of this most interest-
ing science, showed the eminent and superiour powers of
Galvanism to be far beyond any other stimulant in nature.
On the first application of the process to the face, the
jaw of the deceased criminal began to quiver ; and the
adjoining muscles were horribly contorted, and one eye
was actually opened. In the subsequent part of the pro-
cess, the right hand was raised and clenched, and the
legs and thighs were set in motion.
" It appeared to the uninformed part of the by-standers,
as if the wretched man was on the eve of being restored
to life. This, however, was impossible ; as several of his
friends, who were near the scaffold, had violently pulled
his legs, in order to put a more speedy termination to his
sufferings." Vide the Morning Post of January 22, 1803
It is to hoped, in case this Mr. Professor undertakes
any future operations of this nature, that some more
cholerick dead man will not only clench his fist like Fors-
ter, but convince him, by dint of pugilistick demonstration'
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 133
For such a chap, as you're alive,
Full many a felon will revive.
And as he can (no doubt of that)
Give rogues the nine lives of a cat
;
Why then, to expiate their crimes,
These rogues must all be hung nine times.
What more enhances this offence is,
'Twill ninefold governments's expenses;
And such a load, in name of wonder,
Pray how can Johnny Bull stand under?
Then why not rise, and make a clatter,
And put a stop to all this matter
—
Why dont you rouse, I say, in season,
And cut the wicked wizard's weasand ?
For, gentlemen, the devil's to pay,
That you forsake the good old way,
And tread a path so very odd,
So unlike that your fathers trod.
that he is not to disturb with impunity those who ought
to be at " rest from their labours."
134 MODERN THILOSOPHBR.
With what delight the poet fancies
He sees their worships plague old Francis ;
"
" He sees their worships plague old Francis.
Dr. Francis Anthony. The author of the Biograhhia
Britannica relates a pitiful tale respecting the persecutions
suffered by this obstinate old schismatick. " He was,''
says that writer, " a very learned physician and chymist*
the son of an eminent goldsmith in London. Was born
April 16th, 1550. In 1569 he was sent to the university
of Cambridge ; in 1574 took the degree of A. M. &c &c.
He began soon after his arrival (in London) to publish to the
world the effects of his chymical studies. But not having
taken the necessary precaution of addressing himself to the
College of Physicians for their license, he fell under their
displeasure ; and being some time in the year 1600 sum-
moned before the president and censors, he confessed that
he had practised physick in London for six months, and
had cured twenty persons or more of several diseases." [A
most atrocious crime ! I trust very few if any of your
worships would be justified in confessing or pleading guilty
to a similar indictment.] " About one month after, he was
committed to the Counter prison, and fined in the sum
of five pounds propter illicitam praxim—that is, for pre-
scribing against the statutes of the college ; but upon his
application to the chief justice, he was set at liberty,
which gave so great an umbrage, that the president and
one of the censors waited on the chief justice, to request
his favour in preserving the college privileges : upon which
Anthony submitted, and promised to pay his fine, and
was forbidden practice. He was soon after accused
again for practising physick, and upon his own confession
was fined another five pounds, which fine, on his refusing
to pay, was increased to twenty pounds, and he was sen-
tenced to be committed to prison till he had paid it. Noi?
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 135
While he, sad wight, woe-worn and pale,
Is dragg'd about from jail to jail
!
For he was such a stubborn dragon,
He would not down and worship Dagon
;
That is to say, would not acknowledge
Supremacy of your great college !
And what was worse, if worse could be,
And rais'd their ire to such degree,
That they to Tyburn swore they'd cart him ;
He cur'd folks " non secundum artem."
was the college satisfied with this, but commenced a
suit at law against him, in the name of the queen and col-
lege, in which they prevailed, and had judgment against
him. It appears that the learned society thought him ig-
norant ; but there were others of a different opinion, since,
after all these censures, and being tossed about from pri-
son to prison, he became doctor of physick in our own
universities
1"
This is the substance of the proceedings of our ances-
tors against the arch-heretick ; from which we learn the
absolute necessity of a still more rigorous prosecution of
those disturbers of society, who have the impudence to
cure their patients without your License. Had this old
fellow been hung, or " burnt off," as he deserved, the bu-
siness would have been finished at once, and none would
afterwards have dared ever to call in question your supre-
macy !
136 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
His patients sav'd, from mere compassion,
Though killing was the most in fashion !
Then well your fathers ire might burn as
Hot as the fam'd Chaldean furnace !
Thus, when the heretick Waldenses,
With their co-working Albigenses,
Found what they thought they might rely on,
A nearer way to go to Zion,
Those saints who trod the beaten path,
Were fill'd so full of godly wrath,
They burnt them off, nor thought it cruel,
As one would burn a load of fuel
!
These things I note, to bring to view
Some noble precedents for you :
The chapter needs not any comment ?
Then pray don't hesitate a moment.
But, hark ! what means that moaning sound !
That thunder rumbling under ground !
What mean those blue sulphureous flashes,
That make us all turn pale as ashes
!
Why in the air this dreadful drumming,
As though the devil himself were coming,.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 137
Provok'd by magical impostors,
To carry off a doctor Faustus !
Why scream the bats ! why hoot the owls !
While Darwin's midnight bull-dog howls !
"
Say, what portends this mighty rumpus,
To fright our senses out of compass
!
'Tis Radcliffe's sullen sprite now rising,
12
To warn you by a sight surprising,
11
Why scream the bats ! why hoot the owls !
While Darwin's midnight bull-dog howls !
A delectable imitation of Dr. Darwin's delightful pair
of lines
—
" Shrill scream the famish'd bats and shivering owls,
And long and loud the dog of midnight howls.
To prevent any fiost obit disputes among those, who may-
hereafter write comments on this sublime passage, I r«ive
thought it advisable to designate the sfiecies of the dog which
howls so horribly on this great occasion.
12
'Tis Radcliffe's sullen sprite now rising.
This shows Pluto to be a god of correct calculation.
Had he sent one of your water-gruel ghosts, it is a
thousand to one if your worships would have paid the least
deference to the mandates of his sooty highness.
T
138 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
More solemn than a curtain lecture,
Or Monk-y Lewis' Spanish Spectre !
'
3
Now, in a sort of moody mutter,
These awful sounds I hear him utter,
Which make my heart to beat and thwack it,
And burst the buttons off my jacket
!
" 'Tis not from motives of endearment
That I have burst my marble cearment
;
«3 Or Monk-y Lewis' Spanish Spectre .'
I would have no impudent slanderer insinuate that I
mean to bestow on the right honourable M. G. Lewis, M. P.
any opprobrious epithet. No, gentlemen, I did not say
monkey. The term Which I use is an adjective, legally
coined from the substantive Monk ; and I affix it to this
gentleman's name as an honorary appellation, to which he
is entitled for having written that celebrated romance called
The Monk. As to the Spanish Spectre, you will please
to consult the romance aforesaid, and you will find a most
horriUe ballad, by which it appears that a certain miss
Imdgene was carried off on her bridal night, if I mistake
not, by the ghost of one Don Alonzo, to whom she had
been betrothed, but proved false hearted. I would, how-
ever, caution against reading this doleful ditty by candle
light, lest the story of
" The worms they crept in, and the worms they crept
out,
And they sported his eyes and his temples about,"
might sport with the senses of the more timid reader.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 139
No ; I'm from Hades, in a hurry,
To make above ground one d—d flurry !
'
5
(t
Arm'd, as the dread occasion urges,
With Ate^s borrow'd snakes and scourges,
I come to rouse ye into action,
To crush the Perkinising faction.
" I tell you these detested tractors
The worst of Satan's manufactures,
Will set themselves to supersede us
Will even blister, cup, and bleed us ;
" And they'll be us'd as diureticks,
Catharticks, anodynes, emeticks,
J
5 To make above ground one d—d flurry
!
I earnestly request that the learned college will not do me
the injustice to suppose that a man of my delicacy and refined
feelings would myself utter any phrase like the above, which
has so much the semblance of profanity. But as this
personage, before he passed that fatal " bourne" (from
which one " traveller" has " returned") had ever been ac-
customed, like most of our profession, to rhetorical
flourishes of this kind, it must be expected that, on such
an important occasion, he would express himself with all
his wonted energy ; and my veracity as a historian
obliges me to give verbatim the speech which the sprite
did in fact deliver.
140 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
And will begin, before they're done
To tap for dropsy, cut for stone.
" The self-same metal, it is said,
With friar Bacon's brazen head,
Each point's a d—sh deal worse thing
Than Goodman Gyges brazen ring.
" And they will mend a wooden leg
Much better than a walnut peg,
Will make a rogue a pair of ears
Who's had them clipp'd by Justice's shears.
" Make Hydra heads spring up, I ween
For people shav'd by guillotine ;
Thus force our freedom loving neighbours
To recommence their humane labours.
" Why stand ye now, with stupid stare,
Hen-hearted cowards, as you are ?
Arise ! and quickly gird your might on,
And into battle then rush right on
!
" Go ! teach Perkineans their errours,
In tampering with the king of terrours
Go ! teach the varlets to defy
Our great and terrible ally
!
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 141
" Don't say to me, you stupid dunces,
That you're not fond of broken sconces;
Don't say to me, you've no delight in
The dreadful, awful, trade of fighting.
" For you might chace them many a mile, and
E'en bid them, scampering, quit our island,
And still your carcases be strangers
To troublous toils, and desperate dangers.
" Appear in field, the battle's won ;
Your phizzes show— L—d how they'll run !
But you're like sheep, a sort of cattle,
That one can't well drive into battle.
" O could I but affairs contrive
To be for one half hour alive,
What thunder-bolts of indignation
I'd hurl at imps of Tractoration !
"I'll batter ye with Pluto's bludgeon,
Unless to battle you now budge on,
And make more bluster with your train,
Than devils in a hurricane !
" I'll drive ye down"—but dawning day-
Bids bullying phantom hie away
;
142 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
While horrour makes each hair stand stedfast,
Like quill of hedgehog in our head fast
!
So stood the Premier of your nation,
When Robson bawl'd out " Defalcation !
Government's robb'd by wicked men,
And cannot pay nineteen pounds ten"!!!'6
So petrified stood bull and bear,
Of Stock Exchange, when the lord mayor,
With vile chagrin and terrour quaking,
Found Hawkesbury's letter all a take-in. n
16
And cannot pay nineteen pounds ten"!!!
The terrible shock given not only to Mr. Addington, but
to the credit of the British nation, by this famous sally of
that teasing, testy, querulous, alarming, honourable, ci-
devant member of the house of commons, is undoubtedly
fresh in the recollection of every person, who has tbe least
smattering in parliamentary debates : and every true pa>.
triot and friend to the Peace of our prime minister,
will congratulate the country on the failure of Mr. Robson's
election, as well as that of his co-operator, Mr. Jones,
into the new parliament,
17 Found Hawkesbury's letter all a take-in.
Now I know the man who cobbled up the famous hum-
bug peace with France, which, in my opinion, was a ma-
noeuvre that did honour to its inventer. He tenants a
garret adjacent to mine. But Dr. Caustick is an honoura-
ble man, and twice the £5000 offered by the stock ex?
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 143
And thus our emperour stood staring,
When Callender for aye forbearing,
At length bevvray'd a queer connexion
In matters of a dark complexion.
l8
Now should you slight the dire monition
Of this ill boding apparition,
You truly will be well deserving
The dreadful destiny of starving
!
O then, dread sirs, brimful of rage,
War ! horrid war ! is yours to wage,
To extirpate the deadly schism,
The heresy of Perkinism
!
Pursue the steps that learned sage hath,
The most redoubted doctor Haygarth,
change, with the £500 by the lord mayor, for his appre-
hension, would not tempt him to expose the neck of his
friend to the noose of justice. This I premise, that the
Bow-street officers may not misapply their time and talents
in any futile attempts to wheedle or extort the secret.
18
In matters of a dark complexion.
Here we are again quite out of the reach of your wor-
ships. Seven years of most violent application to the
cabalistical arts would not make you able to form even
a distant idea of the meaning of this last line.
144 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
Who erst o'er Perkins' sconce at Bath,
Broke a whole gallypot of wrath !
'
9
16
Broke a whole gallypot of wrath !
I beseech you, gentlemen, to suspend your impatience
relative to this wonderful achievement, till you have soared
through a few stanzas. In the mean time, however, I
wish that this my favourite hero, and burthen of my song,
should stand high with your worships, and be the object of
the humble admiration, not only of your honourable body,
but of mankind in general; and I myself shall take the
liberty to trample on all those, who dare call in ques-
tion his infallibility. I have a knowledge of but few- who
more deserve to be trodden upon on this occasion than the
conductors of certain foreign literary journals, who, not
aware of the inconceivable services which Dr. H. has
rendered the medical host by his ardent zeal against their
common enemy, Perkinism, have expressed their senti-
ments of him, and his works, with that indifference, which
must have arisen from their want of knowledge of his
achievements.
Among the most prominent of this junto should be
mentioned the Medical Refwsitory, at New-York, conducted
by professors Mitchell and Miller, of that place, the for-
mer of whom I understand is a representative in the Con-
gress of the United States, an eminent physician, and the
celebrated author of what is usually termed the " Mitchel-
lian Theory of Contagion." alterations in the French Chy-
mical Nomenclature, &.c. The latter I am told, is like-
wise a physician of great respectability.
Now that two such characters should presume to repre-
sent Dr. H. as a man, whose " vanity is more conspicu-
ous than his ability," is a circumstance which, while it
excites my surprise, rouses my resentment. However, to
accomplish their disgrace and his renown, I shall concisely
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 145
Oh ! could I sing Haygarth's chef d'oewvre,
That mighty magical manoeuvre,
state his magnanimous conduct to them, and their ungra-
cious return.
Dr. H. in great condescension to the poor wretches of
the United States, who, through the ignorance and inex-
perience of their medical practitioners, were likely to be
extirpated by the yellow fever, addressed them in an affec-
tionate letter, and proclaimed the barbarity and unskilful-
ness of their physicians, in a very appropriate and be-
coming manner. He even kindly apprized the Academy
of Medicine, at Philadelphia, that their proceedings and
reasonings on the disease among them were " frivolous,
inadequate, and groundless," and communicated many
other facts equally useful and important.
Now, whether his statements were true or false, those
foreigners ought to have been grateful to Dr. H. for ho-
nouring them with the information. But, on the contrary,
they say that " a poison, which, in the city of New-York,
has destroyed, within three months, the lives of more
than twenty practitioners of medicine, well deserves to be
traced and understood by the survivers." They even
have the audacity to assert, that " American physicians
and philosophers, who have viewed the rise and progress of
pestilence, walked amidst it by day and by night, year
after year, and endured its violence on their own persons,
almost to the extinction of their lives," ought to be as
competent judges of the cause and cure of the disease as
Dr. Haygarth, who has never seen a case of it.
After entering into a copious (about 20 pages) and
what they seem to think a learned investigation of my
V
146 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
That feat, than which, you'll own, if candid.
None greater ever mortal man did
!
But ere I " sweep the sounding lyre,"
Or tune Apollo's fiddle higher,
I'll steal (although it cost a halter)
A brand from Delia Crusca's altar.
great friend's theory and sentiments, they have dared to
refute his reasoning, and turn it to ridicule.
These presumptuous writers finally close their unrea-
sonable account of Dr. Haygarth in quotations from Dr.
Caldwell, who, it appears, is a fellow of the college of
physicians of Philadelphia, and a very ungentleman-like
fellow too, for he has also had the rashness to descant on
some of the works of Dr. Haygarth in terms following.
" Perhaps he (Dr. Haygarth) may found the boldness
of his pretensions as an author on the maturity of his
years. Many writers less youthful are more modest ; and
it is to be lamented that grey hairs give no infallible earnest
of either wisdom or liberality. We will not positively
assert that he is njjt a man of profound erudition ; but we
have no reason whatever to convince us that he is. Per-
haps he may pride himself on being a native of the same
country which produced a Harvey, a Sydenham, a Cullen,
and a Hunter. We entreat him to remembei-, that weeds
may infest the same ground which has been overshadowed
by the lordly adansonia, and that the same clime gives
birth to the lion and the jackal." Medical Repository, vol.
v. p. 333. Oh, fie ! fie !
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 147
"Othou!" who soar'dst to heights sublimer
Than e'er before attain'd by rhymer,
Till even my good friend Apollo
At distance gaz'd, but dar'd not follow,
" Genius, or muse," who had'st propensity
To seem to strive to stretch immensity,
Whose " airy lays," quoth Bell's fraternity,
Would last through more than one eternity,
(Although it seems, the deuce is in't,
Those very lays are out of print,
A proof this age does not inherit
One ounce of true poetick spirit)
O come, and bring (delightful things)
A pair of Delia Cruscan wings,
That we, by sublimated flight,
May " STEM THE CATARACT OF LIGHT."
'"Then condescend to be my crony,
And guide my wild Parnassian pony,
Till our aerial cutter runs 2°
Athwart " a wilderness of suns!" 21
2» Till our aerial cutter runs.
My mode of commencing an airy tour, mounted, Muse
148 MODERN' PHILOSOPHER.
But Gifford comes, with why and wherefore; 22
And what the devil are you there for ?
and Co. on a poetical pony, which by the way is meta-
morphosed into a cutter., may, perhaps, be objected to by
your fastidious criticks, as a liberty even beyond a poet's
licentiousness. But there is nothing which we men of
genius more thoroughly detest than any attempt to fetter
our faculties with the frigid rules of criticism. Besides,
sense or nonsense, fioetry or gingling, it is perfectly De lla.
Cruscan.
21 u Wilderness of suns !"
This " proud" passage, together with " O thou !"—
-
"genius or muse!"—and "cataract of light!"-—
are the legitimate offspring of that prince of poets, who
rose to such a towering pitch of poetry,
" That oft Hibernian opticks bright
Beheld him fairly out of sight .'"
I should have been happy to have fascinated your worships
with further specimens of the same sort of sublimity,
could I have retained them in memory. I have been so
solicitous for your gratification in this particular, that I
have made a painful, though bootless search, throughout
the metropolis and its suburbs, for these more than sybiline
oracles. Indeed I have reason to fear that all Delia Crus-
ca's effusions, are irretrievably lost, except the few frag-
ments which I have here fiickled for the behoof of posterity.
22
But Gifford comes, with why and wherefore.
The admirers of your polite poetry can never sufficiently
anathematize the author of the Baviad and Maviad for.
extirpati1
g, root and branch, a species of sentimental ditty,
which might be scribbled, without the trouble of « sepsfc
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 149
Then tells a tale about the town,
Contriv'd to lessen our renown.
Says, if we rise but one inch higher,
We set our hat and wig on fire;
And that he'll bet us ten to one
We shall be scorch'd like Phaeton.
Then I and Clio, as the case is,
Must now resume our former places
;
But still, to keep up our renown,
We ride a " gairish sun-beam" down !
to pose ;" an object certainly of no small consequence
with your bon ton readers and writers of rhyme. How
could a sentimental ensign or love-lorn lieutenant be better
employed than in sobbing over " Laura's tinkling trash,"
or weeping in concert with the " mad jangle of Matilda's
lyre ?" Besides, there ought to be whi/ified syllabub adap-
ted to the palates of those who cannot relish " Burns'
pure healthful nurture." Mr. Gifford should be sensible,
that reducing poetry to the standard of common sense is
clipping the wings of genius. For example ;
there is no
describing what sublime and Delia Cruscan-like capers
I should myself have been cutting in this " Wilderness of
suns ;" for I was about to prepare a nosegay of comets,
and string the spheres like beads for a lady's necklace
;
but was not a little apprehensive lest Mr. G. or some other
malignant critick should persuade the publick, that my
effusions of fancy were little better than the rant of a bed'
Iamite.
150 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
And now once more, in humble station,
We'll jog along in plain narration ;
And tollutate o'er turnpike path, 23
To view the conjuring crew at Bath.
Behold! great Haygarth and his corps*4
Of necromancers, just a score,
23 And tollutate o'er turnpike path.
They rode, but authors having not
Determin'd whether pace or trot,
That is to say, whether tollutation,
As they do term't, or succussation.
Hudibras, Canto ii.
-4 Behold ! great Haygarth and his corps.
I here wish to give a concise sketch of the doctor's ne-
cromantick process, so well calculated to give the tractors
the kick out of Bath and Bristol, where they were rapidly
making the most sacrilegious encroachments on the un-
polluted shrine of our profession. I would recommend
similar proceedings to every member of the college, and
every worthy brother who is truly anxious to preserve the
dignity and honour of the professional character. But would
premise, that, when the like experiments are made, which,
I trust, will be very generally by the whole profession, I
would particularly recommend that the doctor's prudence,
in not admitting any of the friends of the tractors at the
scene of action, should be strictly imitated ; and also his
discretion in choosing, as subjects for the experiment, the
ignorant and miserable paupers of an infirmary, whose cre-
dulity will assist very much in operations of this sort. I
also enjoin them to bear in mind his hint, " That if any
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 151
Enter the drear abodes of pain,
Like death of old and horrid train !
person would repeat the experiment with wooden tractors,
it should be done with due solemnity ; during the process,
the wonderful cures said to be performed by the tractors,
should be particularly related. Without these indispensa-
ble aids, other trials will not prove so successful as those
which are here reported " Haygarth's book, page 4.
It can scarcely be necessary for me to hint to my discreet
brethren, in addition, that should they try the real tractors
afterwards (which, however, I rather advise them not to
do at all) the whole of these aids of the mind are to be as
strictly avoided. I had like to have forgotten to say, that
the means used in the instance which follows, to increase
the solemnity of the scene, were a capital display of wigs,
canes, stop-watches ; and a still more solemn and terrifick
spectacle, about a score of the brethren. The very com-
mencement serves to show how " necessary" was all this
display to ensure the success of these wooden tractors.
" It was often necessary to play the part of a necromancer,
to describe circles, squares, triangles, and half the figures
in geometry, on the parts affected, with the small end of
the (wooden) tractors. During all this time we conversed
upon the discoveries of Franklin and Galvani, laying great
stress on the power of metallick points attracting lightning,
and conveying it to the earth harmless. To a more cu-
rious farce I was never witness. We were almost afraid
to look each other in the face, lest an involuntary smile
should remove the mask from our countenances, and dis-
pel the charm." Haygarth's book, page 16.
A very ingenious friend of Dr. H. and the glorious
cause in which he is engaged, has conceived an improve-
ment on this process. While the above operation is going
152 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
He comes ! he comes ! good heaven defend us I
With magick rites, and things tremendous !
on, surely, the adroit necromancer would handle his virgula
divinitoria with far greater effect, and himself appear
much more in character, by using a suitable incantation.
The following has therefore been proposed for the general
use of the profession.
Hocus ! pocus ! up and down !
Draw the white right from the crown !
Hocus ! pocus ! at a loss !
Draw the brazen rod across !
Hocus ! pocus ! down and up !
Draw them both from foot to top !
Lest you should not have sufficient ingenuity to compre-
hend the object of Dr. Haygarth, in producing these opera-
tions on the minds of those paupers, by the aid of such
means as he employed, I must try to explain it. It was
to induce an inference on the part of the publick, that if,
by any means whatsoever, effects can be produced on the
mind of a poor bedridden patient, whether such effect be
favourable or unfavourable (as the latter was often the case
in Haygarth's experiments) ergo, Perkins's tractors cure
diseases by acting on the mind also, whether on a human
or brute subject. Should any person be so uncivil and
unreasonable as to start the objection to this logick, that
with the same propriety all medicines might also be sup-
posed to produce their effects by an action on the mind,
I particularly advise (provided such person be a noted
coward) that you challenge him or her to a duel : but if,
on the contrary, he or she be a terrible Mac Namara-like
fellow, modestly reply that it was all a joke, and you hope
there was no offence.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 153
With such as serv'd the witch of Endor
To make the powers of hell surrender
!
Now draws full many a magick circle ;
Now stamps, and foams, and swears meherc'le !
As old Canidia us'd to mutter once,
Just as her demon gave her utterance
!
Now tells each trembling bed-rid zany
Terrifick tales of one Galvani
;
How Franklin kept, to make folks wonder,
A warehouse full of bottled thunder I
Thus Shakspeare's Macbeth's wicked witches
Even carry'd matters to such pitches,
In hoity-toity midnight revel,
The old hags almost rais'd the devil
!
And now our tragi- comick actors
Torment a pair of wooden tractors ;
All which, with many things they more did,
In Haygarth's book you'll find recorded.
Since doctor Haygarth, as we've stated,
These points pernicious has prostrated,
x
154 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
Our college ought to canonize him ;
Instead of that the rogues despise him.
And there's a certain doctor Caldwell
May calculate on being maul'd well,
Unless, since he's presum'd to flout him,
He unsays all he's said about him.
What right could he have to berate his
Opinions, which were given gratis,
Or state a plausible objection
Against his doctrine of infection ?
O man of mineralputrefaction, n
In spite of imps of fell detraction,
2 5 O man of mineral putrefaction.
In the famous address to which we have before referred,
we find a most remarkable discovery of the hero of our
tale, relative to the origin of " stench" which alone would
entitle our doctor to be numbered amongst the most pro-
found of all philosophers, and which we shall give the
world in his own words.
" It is too obvious to escape notice, that the stench
arising fi om the hold of a ship proceeds from the putre-
faction of substances which belong to all the three king-
doms of nature, vegetable, animal, and mineral!!"
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 155
We greet thee on our bended knees
Great Britain's great Hippocrates.
But if Haygarthian rites infernal
Sould fail our foes to overturn all,
Seek ways and means to lay them level,
Without one conjuror, witch, or devil.
If you can find some one among
You, who don't value being hung,
Perhaps the readiest mode would be
To kill the conjuring patentee.
But still I have some hesitation
To recommend assassination
;
Although I'm sure t'would not be cruel,
To pop off Perkins in a duel.
For this you've precedents quite ample,
Full many a glorious example,
From Goths and Vandals, out of temper, or
A certain crazy Russian emperour. 2<s
26
A certain crazy Russian emperour.
Czar Paul, emperour of all the Russias, &c. who had
a very benevolent desire to settle the disputes, which agi-
tated Europe, by virtue of tilt and tournament, among
156 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
For if the conjuror were shot dead,
By some rude harum-scarum hot-head ;
Then might we quickly crush the flummery
Of tract'ring mischief-making mummery.
Perkins destroy 'd, the institution
Will be o'erwhelm'd in dire confusion
;
And we shall easily be able
To overturn this modern Babel.
So, if a wolf should silent creep
T'attack by night a flock of sheep,
He'd not attempt the whole together,
But first invade the old bell-wether. 27
those potentates, whose quarrelsome dispositions so often
set their subjects by the ears.
27 But firt invade the old bell-wether.
This sublime simile, gentlemen, will meet the unequivo-
cal approbation of those who are acquainted with the
rustick manners and natural history of Kamtschatka. The
leading wether of a flock of sheep is ever invested with a
bell, pendent from his neck by a collar, not only as an ho-
norary badge of distinction, but for the purpose of alarm-
ing the shepherd, in case of invasion by any of the mer-
ciless tenants of the forest. The wolf always makes it
his first object to silence this jingler, that he may with
the greater impunity destroy his fleecy companions.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 157
Let not the thought of Jack Ketch scare ye,
But at him like brave Mac Namara,
Avenge our wrongs in mode as summary
As he adopted with Montgomery.
For if said Mac be crown'd with laurel,
Who kill'd a colonel in a quarrel
About two dogs, between two puppies,
Most mighty sirs, my trust and hope is,
That nobody will think it is hard
For us to shoot a conjuring wizard,
Since all allow, sans hesitation,
That we've receiv'd vast provocation.
And if our champion's full of fury,
When he kills Perkins, then the jury
(Provided they are made to fit him)
Will most assuredly acquit him. 2S
28
Will most assuredly acquit him.
Why not, as well as acquit capt. Mac, who evaded all
harm, in consequence of his not permitting the " sun to
go down on his wrath ?" Mr. Justice Grose, however, ap-
pears to me to have proved himself to have been a very
gross justice, in telling the jury that the law does not re-
cognise certain nice distinctions which are adopted by men
of honour. If, however, his assertion be true, it is proper
158 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
And when the foe is sent to Hades,
Our champion will please the ladies,
Because the pretty things delight in
The man, who kills his man in fighting.
that there should be an act of parliament passed immediate-
ly, giving us gentlemen the privilege of killing each
other, which would save government the expense of hemp,
hangmen, 8cc.
CANTO III.
MANIFESTO.
ARGUMENT.
The poet now, with Discord's clarion
Preludes the war we mean to carry on ;
And sends abroad a proclamation
Against Perkinean conjuration
;
Proves that we ought to hang the tractors,
On gibbet high, like malefactors,
And with them that pestiferous corps,
Who keep alive the paltry poor ;
By reasons sound, as e'er were taken.
From Aristotle, Locke, or Bacon.
BUT if you cannot find some one,
As bold as Attila the Hunn,
T' attack the conjuring tractoring noddy,
And fairly bore him through the body
;
Collect a host of our profession,
With all their weapons in possession
;
160 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
And vi et armisy then we'll push on,
And crush Perkinean Institution.
But first, in flaming manifesto,
(To let John Bull and all the rest know,
Why we should on these fellows trample,
And make the rogues a sad example)
Say to the publick all you can say,
Of magick spells, and necromancy
;
That Perkins and his crew are wizards,
Conceal'd in sanctimonious vizards.
Say to the publick all you can say,
Of wonder-working power of fancy :
Tell what imagination's force is
In crows and infants, dogs and horses :
28
28 In crows and infants, dogs and horses.
These are among the patients whose cures are attested
in Perkins's publication, in which he has introduced them
to show that his iractors do not cure by an influence on the
imagination. The fallacy of any deductions, drawn from
such cases, in favour of the tractors, will be apparent
from the following most learned and elaborate investigation
of the subject.
There are no animals in existence, I shall incontestibly
prove, that are more susceptible of impressions from
imagination, than those above mentioned.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 161
Tell how their minds—hut here you old men
May trust the younkers under Coleman ;
2
To begin with the croiv. Strong mental faculties ever in-
dicate a vivid imagination ; and what being, except Mivera's
beauty the owl, is more renowned for such faculties than
the crow ?—Who does not know that he will smell gun-
powder three miles, if it be in a gun, and he imagine it be
intended for his destruction ? These emblems of sagacity,
besides " fetching and carrying like a spaniel," and talking
as well or better than colonel Kelly's parrot (which by
the by I suspect to have been a crow) are, as Edwards
assures us in his Natural History, " the planters of all
sorts of wood and trees." " I observed," says he, " a great
quantity of crows very busy at their work. I went out
of my way on purpose to view their labour, and I found
they were planting a grove of oaks." Vol. V. Pref. xxxv.
These geniuses always can tell, and always have told,
since the days of Virgil, the approach of rain. That poet
says,
" Turn comix plena pluviam vocat improba voce."
They can likewise tell when bad news is approaching,
as we learn from the same writer,
" Saepe sinistra cava prscdixit ab ilice comix."
Now I beg leave to know what mortal can do more ?
and to suppose a crow not blessed with those more bril-
liant parts, under which imagination is classed, is to do
them a singular injustice, which I shall certainly resent
on every occasion.
Now as to infants. Whoever has been in the way of
an acquaintance with some of the more musical sort of
162 MODERN PHILOSOPHER,
For graduates at horses' college,
Most certainly are men of knowledge !
these little gentry (like my seven last darlings for in-
stance) and has been serenaded with the dulcet sonatas of
their warbling strains will not be disposed to deny their
powers on the imagination of others. I have known the
delusion practised so effectually by these young conjurors,
that I have myself imagined my head was actually aching
most violently, even on the point of cracking open : but
on going beyond the reach of their magick spell, that is,
out of hearing, my head has been as free from pain as it
necessarily must be at this moment, while 1 am penning
this lucid performance. Now, I maintain it to be most un-
philosophical and totally opposite to certain new principles
in ethicks, which I shall establish in a future publication,
to suppose that infants should be able to impart either
pleasure or pain, by operating on the imagination, and not
themselves possess a large share of that imagination, by
the aid of which they operate to so much effect upon
others.
Next come dogs. Dr. Shaw, in his Zoology, vol. i. p.
289, informs us, " that a dog belonging to a nobleman of
the Medici family always attended his master's table,
changed the plates for himr
carried him his wine in a glass
placed on a salver, without spilling the smallest drop."
The celebrated Leibnitz mentions another, a subject of the
elector of Saxony, who could discourse in an " intelligible
manner," especially on " tea, coffee, and chocolate ;"
whether in Greek, Latin, German, or English, however,
he has not stated ; but Dr. Shaw, alluding to the same
dog, says, undoubtedly under the influence of prejudice,
" he was somewhat of a truant, and did not willingly exert
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 163
That though imagination cures.
With aid of pair of patent skewers,
his talents, being rather pressed Into the service of litera-
ture."
Indeed our greatest naturalists assure us, that this ani-
mal is far before the human species in every ennobling
quality. Buffon makes man a very devil compared with
the dog ; and had he come directly to the point, I pre-
sume he would have told us that the dog is one link
above man in the great chain from the fossil to the angel.
" Without the dog," says Buffon, " how could man have
been able to tame and reduce other animals into slavery? To
serve his own safety, it was necessary to make friends
among those animals whom he found capable of attach-
ment. The fruit of associating with the dog was the con-
quest and the peaceable possession of the earth. The dog
will always preserve his empire. He reigns at the head of
a flock, and makes himself better understood than the
voice of the shepherd" (well he might, for it appears he
is more knowing, more powerful, and more just.) " Safety,
order, and discipline, are the fruits of his vigilance and
activity. They are a people submitted to his management,
whom he conducts and protects, and against whom he
never employs force but for the preservation of peace and
good order." Barr's Buffon, vol. v. p. 302.
It is to me somewhat remarkable that theorizing French-
men, many of whose discoveries are scarcely less im-
portant than my own, cannot make them apply in such
a manner as to effect some practical good in society.
Buffon discovered that a dog was a species of demi-god,
and appears on the point of worshipping this great Anubis
of the Egyptians. Voltaire tells us, that Frenchmen are
164 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
Still such relief cannot be real.
For pain itself is all ideal. 3
half monkey and half tiger, and every body knows that
the one is insufferably mischievous, and the other infinitely
ferocious. Now it is surprising that these philosophers
could not contrive to improve the breed by a little of the
canine blood. Indeed, I should advise them to import some
of our Bond-street male puppies, to be paired with French
female monkies, and I will venture to assert that there will be
very little of the tiger perceivable in their offspring. And
since a dog, as Buffon says, " reigns with so much dignity
at the head of a flock, will always preserve his empire,
never employs force but for the preservation of peace and
good order " and is endowed with so many other great
qualifications, which seem to denote him to be a proper
personage to wield the sceptre of dominion, I would se-
riously advise the abbe Sieyes, when he frames his 999th
constitution for the free French Republick (which it is
said he has already begun to manufacture) so to organize
the executive branch, that at least one of the consuls
should be a true blooded English bull-dog.
After the ample proof I have now given of the infinite
superiority of the dog to man, when his merits are fairly
estimated, which it is very difficult for us, being interested,
to do without prejudice, I shall take it for granted, that he
must possess all the brilliancy even of a poet's imagination,
and therefore that he is far more likely to be cured by ima-
gination than any man.
It now remains to speak of /torses, and these (not to
mention the Bucephalus of Alexander, or the Pegasus of
doctor Caustick) I shall show, in a very few words, can
boast of performances and qualifications, to which a lively
fancy in the comparison is but as the wit of an oyster to
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 165"
Say that friend Davy, when he was
Inspir'd with his oraculous gas,
the wisdom of a philosopher. One of the most scientifick
nations that ever existed, renowned alike for its refine-
ments in the arts, and prowess in war, has been compelled
to yield the palm to the superiour attainments of a horse,
and acknowledge its inability to achieve what he most
readily effected. Ten long years was the whole power
of Greece engaged in an ineffectual siege of far-famed
Troy. The bravest of armies, commanded by heroes
allied to the gods, assailed the foe in vain. At this dis-
heartening period stepped forth a wooden horse, and pro-
promised a victory, provided his plans were adopted.
Aware of the horse's great capacity, which enabled him to
comprehend a great number of subjects, the sagacious
Greeks entered into his measures, and Troy was levelled
in the dust.
If all this could have been accomplished by a wooden
horse, none but a Perkinite will be so absurd as to pretend
that one composed of Jlesh and blood, like man, does not
enjoy far greater privileges, among which are those of
receiving as many cures by the influence of imagination
as he pleases.
Now then, gentlemen, I trust that if any man will con
over, digest, comprehend, and admit this my ingenious
and learned exposition of the fallacy of the arguments in
favour of the tractors, so much harped upon by our ad-
versaries, which are drawn from the circumstance of
their having cured crows and infants, dogs and horses, he
will with great facility be enabled to confound and over-
throw them on all occasions, provided he enforce and pro-
claim it with the ardency its importance deserves.
166 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
Utter'd this solemn truth, that nought
E'er had existence, only thought!*
- May trust the younkers under Coleman.
Search the field of science, and you will not find la-
bourers more in want of employment than the above gentry.
For so prolifick is this Alma Mater in qualifying the rising
generation of veterinarians, that three months looking on,
and twenty guineas fee to the ingenious professor, will
convert the veriest dunce into a veterinarian of the first wa-
ter, to the no small discomfiture of every farrier within
many miles of his range.
But I would by no means recommend your trusting to
the professor himself for any aid in this business. No ;
he has no interest in the affair. Let the tractors cure all
the infirm horses in England, and what cares the professor?
Why he has only to put up his petition, as he has done
already several times, under the dome of St. Stephen^
and all wants are satisfied. Fifteen hundred a year, be-
sides cheese-parings to twice the amount, are no incon-
siderable matters in the estimation of a garreteer, like Dr.
Caustick. Were parliament to reward me for my disco-
veries and labours for the good of the human, in propor-
tion to their munificence to the professor of the caballine
race, I should have had a dozen dukedoms, and the clerk-
ship of the Pells, which was lately given, by his provident
sire to master Addington, into the bargain.
Trust, therefore, the younkers under Coleman ; for
they, being actuated by the same spirit which impels me
to attack Perkinism, will prove powerful allies in our
glorious cause.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 167
What though they say, why to be sure,
If we by Fancy's aid can cure,
Then why not use imagination,
A cheap and simple operation?
Say nature through her works intends
All things to answer some great ends:
Thus she form'd drugs to purge and
shake,
Then man, of course those drugs to
take. 5
3 For pain itself is all ideal.
So said the learned bishop Berkley, in a scientifick
treatise called Principles of Human Knowledge, in which
his reverence makes it apparent, to those who have a clue
to his metaphysical labyrinth, that there is no such thing as
matter, entity, or sensation, distinct from the mind which
perceives, or thinks it perceives, such ideas or substances.
The bishop's authority being so pat in point, I cannot but
admire that it has not more frequently been adduced
in opposition to the tractors.
4 E'er had existence, only thought !
For the particulars of this important discovery turn back
to note 16. canto i.
s Then man, of course, those drugs to take.
This capital argument, that it might make a capital
figure, I have ordered my printer to put in capital letters,
168 MODERN PHILOSOPHER .
That learn'd physicians pine with hunger,6
The while a spruce young patent- monger
and I hope it will make a capital impression on your
worshipful intellects. But still I have not given it half
that pre-eminence which its importance claims, under
existing circumstances. A great hue and cry has been
raised by the Perkinites, by which some of the less pene-
trating part of the profession have been awed into silence,
respecting the duty of medical practitioners. They say
that it is the duty of a medical man to employ only such
means as will cure his patient in the most safe, cheap, and
expeditious, manner. This infamous pretension takes its
origin from no other person than Perkins himself. That
you may individually be aware of the effrontery with
which it is brought forward, I shall, in this note, copy
from Perkins's book his manner of treating the subject.
Your worships will form some idea of the magnitude of
this objection of our adversaries, in their own estimation,
and the mischief it has already occasioned, not only in
Great Britain, but abroad, when I inform you that it has
been echoed in both the English and foreign journals, and
in many of them treated as a complete refutation of the
arguments of Dr. Haygarth, and of all who object against
the tractors, on account of their curing diseases merely by
operating on the imagination. Among other foreign pub-
lications, I observe that the 21st volume of the Biblio heque
Britannique, printed at Geneva, closes a long account
(40 pages) of" Perkinisme" with this " petite histoire de
Mr. Perkins."
" A gentleman came from the country to London, for
the advantage of medical assistance, in a complaint of
peculiar obstinacy and distress. After being under the
care of an eminent physician several weeks, and paying
him upwards of thirty guineas, without any relief, he was
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 169
Contrives to wheedle simple ninnies,
And tractorize away our guineas.
induced to try the tractors. To be short, they performed
a remarkable cure ; the person was perfectly restored in
about ten days. The physician, calling soon after, was
informed of the circumstance. He began lamenting that
so sensible a person as the patient should be caught in
the use of so contemptible a piece of quackery as the
tractors. After assuring the patient that he had thrown
away his five guineas, for that it was well established by Dr.
Haygarth, that a brick-bat, tobacco-pipe, goose-quill, or
even the bare finger, would perform the same cures, he
was interrupted by his patient : ' And are you sincere in
your belief that you could have produced, by those
means, the same effects upon me, which I have ex-
perienced from the tractors ?' 'Do I believe it ? Ay, I
know it ; and that a thousand similar cures might be
effected by means equally simple and ridiculous.'
—
'
And sir,' interrupted the gentleman again, in a more
stern and serious tone, ' why did you not cure me then
by those simple means ? Remember I have paid you
thirty guineas, under the supposition that you were
exerting your utmost endeavours to cure me, and that
in the most safe, cheap, and expeditious manner. You
now in substance acknowledge, that, although in posses-
sion of the means of restoring me to health, for the dis-
honourable purpose of picking my pocket, you continued
me upon the bed of sickness ! Who turns out to be the
impostor ? Let your own conscience answer.' The
justness of the retort, it will be easily believed, precluded
the possibility of an exculpation."
Perkins's New Cases, p. 145.
170 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
That many thousand cures attested
Show death's cold hand full oft arrested
;
Had I been the physician, however, I would have re-
joined with arguments, not dissimilar to that which is so
beautifully expressed in the above stanza. I would have
told him that the Author of nature most certainly would
not have created either a poisonous or salubrious vegetable,
without intending that it should " dose and double dose"
his creature man.
Should it be objected that the tractors being also created
substances ought also to be used, I could ingenuously
retort, they were created in America, a country whose
natives are Indians, an inferiour order of beings to man, as
some great philosophers before me have asserted, and who,
it is evident, are the only order of creatures, on whom it
was intended the tractors should be used.
I have no particular wish to injure Dr. Jenner, or I should
positively overturn him and all his adherents with my re-
sistless arguments. If I were not willing that he should
retain his popularity, I should make it appear that the
small-pox was created with the intent of being universally
propagated among the human race for the purpose of
mortifying female vanity ; <md Jenner's attempt to extir-
pate it, by substituting the cow-pox. which ought to have
been confined to the quadrupeds among which it originated,
as the tractors ought to have been to the Indians is the ex-
treme of presumption, and the height of iniquity. I con-
not but conceive that our bishops and clergy are very
remiss in not endeavouring to dissuade from such enor-
mous, innovating practices.
6 That learn'd physicians pine with hunger.
No man who possesses a heart, certainly none who pos-
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 171
But those who from his prey would part him,
Should manage things secundum artem.
That none should ancient customs vary,
Nor leges physica mutare ;
And thus, to gain a cure unlook'd for,
The patient save, but starve the doctor.7
sesses bowels, can view us reduced to this deplorable con-
dition, and hear this pathetick appeal, without the sincerest
commisseration. The eminent services that our profession
have rendered mankind, in contributing to avert some of
the greatest curses that ever befel the civilized part of the
world, are too well known, and have been too frequently ac-
knowledged to be forgotten, ungratefully, in the day of our
adversity. The testimony to this effect of the judicious,
the humane Addison, ought often to be brought before the
publick eye.
« We may lay it down as a maxim," says that intelligent
writer, " that when a nation abounds with physicians it
grows thin of people. Sir William Temple is very much
puzzled to find out a reason why the northern hive, as he
calls it, does not send such prodigious swarms, and over-
run the world with Goths and Vandals, as it did formerly :
but had that excellent author observed that there were no
students in physick among the subjects of Thor and Woden,
and that this science very much flourishes in the north at
present, he might have found a better solution for this
difficulty than any of those he has made use of." Spec-
tator, No. 2 1
.
7
The patient save, but starve the doctor.
This would be abominable. Physicians, in general, are
172 MODERN ?HILOSOPHER.
That, though the Perkinistick fellows
May have the impudence to tell us,
That they can muster, on emergence,
Renown'd physicians, learned surgeons
;
With many other men of merit,
Philanthropy and publick spirit,
Not your self-puffing sons of vanity,
But real Howards of humanity.
Say that those surgeons and physicians
Are but a conjuring set of rich ones,
Who, having made their fortunes, therefore
Have very little else to care for.
Since they've no interest nor right in
The very cause for which they're fighting
a hale hearty race of men, as, indeed, must be readily con-
ceived from their prudent maxims in regard to the preser-
vation of their own health :—they take no physick. No ;
they are too well acquainted with its tendency. Now, to
starve so sturdy and powerful a body, when his majesty is
in want of such subjects to check the ambitious strides of
restless Buonaparte, as appears from the king's declaration
of this day (May the 16th, 1803,) in preference to letting
their miserable patients expire, whom Providence evidently
intended should die off, is, I trust, too absurd and unrea-
sonable an idea to be admitted.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 17'
Such non-commission'd volunteers,
In eye of law, are bucaniers.
And as by law a man may fire at,
At any time, a rascal pirate,
So we, with justice on our side,
May hang these rogues before they're try'd.
Then draw a just, but black comparison,
Which, if they've feelings left, will harass 'em,
'Twixt tractoring Perkinites, so smart,
And other dealers in black art;
That is, the chimney-sweepers sooty,
Whose deeds, like Perkinites, are smutty
;
But as they are aspiring geniuses,
Like Perkinites, they find Mecenases. 8
8 Like Perkinites they find Mecenases.
The Perkineans have no cause to boast of the extent of
their patronage, for the poor tawny reptile chimney-
sweepers have of late interested the friends of humanity
in their behalf quite as much. Your worships will derive
from this circumstance a very pleasant source for sneering
at our opponents, which I am sure you will gladly em-
brace, whenever opportunity presents.
174 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
But chimney-sweepers and Perkineans
Are such a scurvy set of minions,
That not one rogue among them back'd is
Except by knaves retir'd from practice. 9
9 Except by knaves retir'd from practice.
This, gentlemen, is a circumstance of no small mo-
ment, and which I trust you will see the necessity of
looking at with some seriousness. Some of our profes-
sion have, to their eternal disgrace, since their retirement on
their fortunes, deserted our cause, and are now to be found
in the ranks of our enemies. These fellows have the
presumption to suggest that their duty to the interests of
the community supersedes that which they owe to their
old brethren, the unreasonableness of which sentiment I
conceive to be self-evident, and therefore shall not trouble
myself to prove it. Several have even addressed to the
Perkinean Institution communications in favour of the
metallick tractors, for publication, three of which are al-
ready laid before the publick. The first on this list is
Mr. Lyster, late of Dublin, who having been above twenty
years senior surgeon of the Dublin hospital, retired to
Bath, where he now seems even to take delight in bene-
fitting the mean and miserable poor, to the wanton injury
of his own dear brethren. To show the extent of his ma-
lice, he has, in his communication to the Perkinean So-
ciety, introduced statements of remarkable cures by the
tractors ; among others one of total blindness of many
years duration, in which all medical skill had previously
failed ; and, to wind up this tale of infamy, he has even
ventured to censure, indirectly, my great champion, Dr.
Haygarth, and to hint that his proceedings were not acr
companied with honourable intentions !
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 175
That though certificates he dish up,
From surgeon, doctor, parson, bishop
;
10
Next on this trio list are Mr. Yatman, of Chelsea, and
Dr. Fuller, of Upper Brook street ; the conduct of both of
whom is equally, if not more reprehensible than Lyster's.
These two also call in the lame, the halt, and the blind,
and, as if to spite their brethren who have drugs to sell,
cure them with the tractors without fee or reward ! Such
conduct is so atrocious that if your worships should
think proper to have them indicted, and Mr. Erskine or
Mr* Garrow object to defend the cause of such clients, I,
counsellor Caustick (remember I am L. L. D.) will manage
it for you, and, provided I can but get that same jury
which decided that captain Macnamara was not accessory
to the death of col. Montgomery, I will procure the de-
fendants to be sent to Botany Bay, or at least as far as
Coventry.
To show the barbarity and wantonness of these two men,
I will close this note by the following quotation from the
letter of one of them, Dr. Fuller, who, after a practice
of nearly thirty years in medicine, and by which he has se-
cured his own independence, seems now to amuse him-
self in undermining those of us who are still dependant.
After a statement of a number of great cures by the trac-
tors, and proving, by his own trials on infants, Ecc. that
they do not act on imagination, which Dr. Haygarth so
laudably attempted to show, he proceeds : " I derive
much satisfaction in noticing among the more liberal and
respectable part of my profession an increased favourable
opinion of Perkinism, and a readiness to allow of its use
among their patients, when proposed by others. To ex-
pect more than this, would be to expect more than human
nature in its present state will admit. It must be an ex-
traoTdiwry exertion of virtue and humanity for a medical
176 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
From gentle, simple, yeomen, squires,
'Tis written, " that all men are liars /"
man, whose livelihood depends either on the sale of drugs,
or on receiving a guinea for writing a prescription, which
must relate to those drugs, to say to his patient, " You
had better purchase a pair of tractors to keep in your
family ; they will cure you without the expense of my
attendance, or the danger of the common medical prac-
tice." For very obvious reasons, medical men must never
be expected to recommend the use of Perkinism. The
tractors must trust for their patronage to the enlightened
and philanthropick out of the profession, or to medical
men retired from practice, and who know of no other
interest than the luxury of relieving the distressed And I
do not despair of seeing the day, when but very few of this
description as well as private families will be without them."
If Dr. Fuller were obliged to live in my garret one month,
he would sing a different tune.
ro From surgeon, doctor, parson, bishop.
The following statement (an arrant lie, I dare say) I copy
from the report of the Perkinistick committee, on the es-
tablishment of their institution. The reasons for adducing
it here are two-fold, both of which are weighty. First,
if it be false, we shall be able to blow them up at once,
as authors of infamous lies : and secondly, if it be true,
I need not suggest to you the pressing necessity there is
for your exertions in arresting a growing monster th«t is
making such rapid strides in the invasion of your rights.
Hear the following
:
" Mr. Perkins has annually laid before the publick a
large collection of new cases, communicated to him for
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. L77
That grant his tractors cure diseases,
Folks ought to die just when God pleases
;
that purpose, by disinterested and intelligent characters,
from almost every quarter of Great Britain. In regard to
the competency of these vouchers, it will be sufficient
simply to state, that, amongst others whose names have
been attached to their communications, are eight profes-
sors in four different universities, twenty-one regular phy-
sicians, nineteen surgeons, thirty clergymen, twelve of
whom are doctors of divinity, and numerous other cha-
racters of equal respectability. The cases published by
these gentlemen amounted in March last, the date of Mr.
Perkins's last publication, to about five thousand. Sup-
posing that not more than one cure in three hundred,
which the tractors have performed, has been published,
and the proportion is probably much greater, it will be
seen, that the number, to March last, will have exceeded
one million five hundred thousand !"
Now, as I suggested in the beginning of this note, I
have no hesitation in pronouncing the whole of this state-
ment a string of infamous falsehoods, and these pretended
respectable characters, who have given their sanction
thereto, are neither more nor less than pensioners of
Perkins. And, as by the mouth of two or three witnesses
every word may be established, I hereby offer myself to
join in forming a trio to go before the lord mayor, and
take an oath to that effect. Then the business will be done.
I have in my eye a young surgeon at Bristol, who, I dare
say, will make one most readily, and I am sure that a
very redoubtable apothecary of the same name, at Newing-
ton, Avill turn out for another.
A a
178 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
But most of all the dirty poor,
Who make, quoth Darwin, good manure ;"
That when the Russians, logger-headed,
Were kill'd by Frenchmen, ever dreaded,
" Who make, quoth Darwin, good manure.
Besides the advantage of showing how reverently this
great philosopher and philanthropist could speak of reli-
gion, I am sure I shall render an essential service to agri-
culturalists, by adducing the following quotation. I bring
it forward the more readily, as I find that the Board of
Agriculture have been so negligent of the interest of that
noble art, as not yet to have recommended the universal
adoption of this measure.
" There should be no burial places in churches, or
church-yards, where the monuments of departed sinners
shoulder God's altar and pollute his holy places with dead
men's bones. But proper burial places should be con-
secrated out of towns, and divided into two compartments,
the earth from one of which, saturated with animal de-
composition, should be taken away once in ten or twenty
years, for the purposes of agriculture, and sand or clay,
or less fertile soil brought into its place." Darwin's Phyto-
logia, p. 242.
Here your worships will perceive that there is a pros-
pect, if this advice is followed, that we may enjoy the
privilege of eating, instead of drinking our friends, which
would be something of an improvement on our idea,
communicated in page 112.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 179
Darwin rejoic'd the filthy creatures
Would serve for stock to make musquitoes ;
12
11 Would serve for stock to make musquitoes.
Among other speculations also in the cause of humanity,
bequeathed us by this friend of man, are the following,
which will prove a great consolation to those who have
foolishly supposed that the bloodshed and devastation, pro-
duced by war, were circumstances which ought to be la-
mented.
These remarks are published by Dr. Darwin, as written
under his own observations in the manuscript of his book,
by a " philosophical friend," whom he left in his library. It
is supposed, however, that the doctor wrote them himself.
At least the sentiments have his sanction.
" It consoles me to find, as I contemplate the whole of
organized nature, that it is not in the power of any one
personage, whether statesman or hero, to produce by his ill
employed activity, so much misery as might have been
supposed. Thus, if a Russian army, in these insane times,
after having endured a laborious march of many hundred
miles, is destroyed by a French army, in defence of their
republick, what has happened? Forty thousand human
creatures, dragged from their homes and connexions,
cease to exist, and have manured the earth ; but the quantity
of organized matter, of which they were composed, pre-
sently revives in the forms of millions of microscopick
animals, vegetables, and insects, and afterwards of
quadrupeds and men ; the sum of whose ha/ifiiness is, fier-
haps, greater than that of the harassed soldiers, by whose
destruction they have gained their existence ! Is not this a
consoling idea to a mind of universal sympathy ? I fear you
will think me a misanthrope, but I assure you a contrary
180 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
And also urges with propriety,
That war's no evil in society ;
But has a charming operation,
To check excess of population.
" Superfluous myriads from the earth"
Are swept by pestilence and dearth ;' 3
sensation dwells in my bosom ; and though I commiserate
the evils of all organized beings, " Homo sum, humani
nihil a me alienum puto." P/iytologia, p. 558.
13 Are swept by pestilence and dearth.
Last words of Dr. Darwin.
I take no small credit to myself, for being one of the first
to bring into notice the latest and the most sublime of this
sublime philosopher's sublime speculations. The fountain
from which this radiant stream of illumination flows is
denominated, among booksellers, The Temple of Na-
ture.
To paint all the writer's conceptions of the mansion of
that old lady, and her own most singular qualifications,
would be a task even beyond the abilities of a Caustick.
Mr. Fuseli, however, has painted his conceptions on the
occasion, which, in one of his designs, appear, so far as 1
can comprehend him, to be simply these :—-In his frontis-
piece to the work, he represents one beautiful lady point-
ing at, or rather fumbling about (somewhat indecently I
must confess) a middle or third breast of another beautiful
lady, whom I suppose to be Dame Nature
;
Than which there's nothing can be apter
To fill philosophers with'rapture.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 181
Which drive his philosophick plan on,
As well as blunderbuss or cannon
;
That, in this world's great slaughter-house,
Not only sheep and calves and cows,
But " man erect, with thought elate,"
Must " duck'''' to death his stubborn pate ;' 4
[Your worships will excuse my bursting into poetry, for the
idea set all my in sides into such a Delia Cruscan-like ferment,
that I should certainly have burst open, had it not thus
overflowed.] This third breast I take to be the painter's
emblem of the discoveries of Dr. Darwin—implying that
their existence is as evident as that a woman has three
breasts. But, not to digress ; the doctor ascertains that
" Human progenies, if unrestrain'd,
By climate friended, and by food sustain'd
O'er seas and soils prolifick hordes would spread
Ere long, and deluge their terraqueous bed.
But war and pestilence, disease and dearth
Sweep the superfluous myriads from the earth."
Temple ofJVature, Canto iv.
Some wnphilosophical theorists have foolishly supposed
that this sweeping plan of Dr. Darwin, which that philoso-
pher appears to have introduced, lest " prolifick hordes"
should " deluge their terraqueous beds," might as well be
deferred till a few of the " sufier-Jluous" acres on the earth's
surface were reduced to a state of cultivation. I should
advise to employ these supernumeraries in navigating
polar ices within the tropicks- as recommended by the
doctor in the Ro'anick Garden, were I not apprehensive
lest I should thereby in some measure, destroy the opera-
tion of Saint Pierre's tides. See note 36. Canto i.
182 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
That in said butcher's shop, the weakest
Should always be kill'd off the quickest,
Because Dame Nature gave the strongest
The right and power to live the longest
;
That since " to die is but to sleep,'" 5
And poor diseas'd are scabby sheep,
14 Must " duck" to death his stubborn pate.
More last words of Dr. Darwin.
" The brow of man erect, with thought elate,
Ducks to the mandate of resistless fate."
Temple of Nature, Canto i\
.
I have exhibited this couplet at all the assemblages of
poetizing brethren in Grub street and St. Giles's, not omit-
ting the inhabitants of the " Wits corner, at the Chapter
coffee-house, the eleva'ed tenants of the cider cellar in
Maiden Lane, and col. Hanger's knights of the round
table," all of whom agree in acknowledging the elegance
and correctness of the metaphor, and that its beauties are
so transcendently exquisite, and beyond the ken of mortal
eye, as to be perfectly incomprehensible.
*5 That since " to die is but to sleep."
u Long o'er the wrecks of lovely life they weep ;
Then pleas'd reflect, to die is but to sleep."
Temjile of Nature, Canto ii.
I suspect that my intimate friend and correspondent,
Buonaparte, is a full convert to Dr. Darwin's doctrine of
death and its consequences. For, when he declared to lord
Whitworth his determination to invade England, although
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 183
That none need care a single button
If we should make them all dead mutton
;
That death is but a trivial thing,
Because a toadstool, or a king,
Will, after death, be sure to rise
In bats and bed-bugs, fleas and flies.
16
Besides, they'll make, when kill'd in fight,
Vast " monuments of past delight ;" 17
there were a hundred chances to one in favour of his
going to the bottom, he was undoubtedly calculating on a
comfortable nap after the fatigues of government.
16 In bats and bed-bugs, fleas and flies.
" Thus, when a monarch or a mushroom dies,
Awhile extinct the organick matter lies ;
But, as a few short hours or years revolve,
Alchymick powers the changing mass dissolve ;
Born to new life unnumber'd insects pant," Sec
Temfile of Nature, Canto iv.
It has been a matter of curious inquiry among some of
my corresponding garreteers, whether this philosopher
himself, in the latter stages of his existence, enjoyed much
consolation from reflecting that the " organick matter"
which entered into his own composition, was about to be
employed for the important purpose of giving " new life"
Xo " unnumbered insects."
184 MODERN PHILOSOPHER,
And that to think of is more pleasant,
Than such delight enjoyed at present.
Then no Darwinian philosopher,
His conduct can contrive to gloss over,
And make it with his tenets tally,
Unless he round our standard rally,
And join in strenuous endeavour
The wretch's thread of fate to sever,
'7 Vast " monuments of past delight."
" Thus the tall mountains, that emboss'd the lands,
Huge isles of rock, and continents of sands,
Whose dim extent eludes the inquiring sight,
Are mighty monuments of past delight."
These " monuments of past delight," Darwin says,
u Rose from the wrecks of animal or herb."
Thus taught by this wondrous sage, I trust the friend
to humanity will suppose it best to let the poor, infirm,
and decrepit, die off as fast as possible, to " manure the
earth," that the quantity of organized matter of which
they were composed, may revive in the forms of millions
of microscopick animals, vegetables and insects, make
" monuments of past delight, &c" Therefore it is to be
hoped, that the promoters of the Perkinean institution
will prove as despicable in respect to numbers, as they
are deficient in understanding, especially in comprehend-
ing the great and glorious truths of modern philosophy.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 185
That having met their final doom,
They may have rest, we—elbow room. ,8
Say that the deepest politicians
Will join their powers with us physicians;
is They may have rest, ive—elbow room.
If your worships have not read Mr. Malthus's Essay
on the Principle of Population, I advise you to buy the
book immediately, and set yourselves about something like
an effort to comprehend its contents. You will there find,
I cannot now recollect the page, that population has a ten-
dency to increase in a geometrical ratio, but that subsist-
ence must be limited to an arithmetical ratio. That the
world would soon swarm with inhabitants in such a man-
ner that in years of the greatest plenty we should be under
the disagreeable necessity of turning anthropophagi, and,
like the famous Pantagruel, eat pilgrims with our sallad,
were not the principle of population restrained by two very
useful predominant principles, viz. " vice and misery ;"the
former of which is happily exemplified in the extravagance
and luxury of your worships, and the latter cot rectly ex-
pressed in the poverty of your worships' petitioner. You
will likewise find in the same volume, passim, that after
war, pestilence, and famine have laid waste a country,
there is an immediate increase of births, in consequence
of the principle of population being let loose to take its
natural operation in replenishing the earth ; or, in other
words, because there is more elbow room for the survivers.
Now, this being correct reasoning, it must be wonderfully
wrong to try to keep alive poor folks who are a dead weight
on population, destroy the means of subsistence, prevent
early marriages, and, by keeping themselves above ground,
stand in the way of their betters.
b b
186 MODERN PHILOSOPHER,
Assist to overset the flummery
Of Perkins' mischief- making mummery,
Nor suffer tractoring rogues to cure
Such sordid shoals of paltry poor,
Of whom it truly may be said,
That they were ten times better dead.
For when the old Nick comes and fetches
Away the dirty set of wretches,
Times will improve, because, the fact is,
'Twill lessen poor rates, worst of taxes.
'
9
*9 'Twill lessen poor rates, worst of taxes.
Mr. Malthus in his Essay on the Principle of Popula-
tion, has the following remarks which go to corroborate
my statement.
" To remedy the frequent distresses of the common
people, the poor laws of England have been instituted ;
but it is to be feared, that though they may have alleviated
a little the intensity of individual misfortune, they have
spread the general evil over a much larger surface. It
is a subject often started in conversation, and mentioned
always as a matter of great surprise, that notwithstanding
the immense sum that is annually collected for the poor
in England, there is still so much distress among them.
Some think that the money must be embezzled ; others
that the church wardens and overseers consume the greater
part of it in dinners. A 1 agree that somehow or other it
must be very ill managed. In short, the fact is, that nearly
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 187
Say that those wights of skill surprising
In science of economizing,
three millions are collected annually for the poor, and yet,
that their distresses are not removed is the subject of
continual astonishment. But a man who sees a little below
the surface of things would be very much surprised if
the fact were otherwise than it is observed to be, or even
if a collection, universally of eighteen shillings in the
pound, instead of four, were materially to alter it. I will
state a case which I hope will elucidate my meaning.
" Suppose, that by a subscription of the rich, the
eighteen pence a day, which men earn now was made up
five shillings ; it might be imagined, perhaps, that they
would then be able to live more comfortably, and have a
piece of meat every day for their dinners. But this would
be a very false conclusion. The transfer of three and six
pence a day to every labourer would not increase the
quantity of meat in the country. There is not at present
enough for them all to have a decent share. What would
then be the consequence ? The competition among the
buyers in the market of meat would rapidly raise the
price from six pence or seven pence, to two or three
shillings the pound ; and the commodity would not be
divided among many more than it is at present. When
an article is scarce, and cannot be distributed to all, he
that can show the most valid fiatent, that is, he that offers
most money becomes the possessor. If we can suppose
the competition among the buyers of meat to continue
long enough for a greater number of cattle to be reared
annually, this could only be done at the expense of the
corn, which would be a very disadvantageous exchange ;
for it is well known that the country could not then sup-
port the same population."
188 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
Who cook up most delicious farings,
From cheese rinds, and potatoe parings,
Will thank us when this paltry band
Are " kill'd off," to manure the land ;
And they will make, I ween, besides,
Morocco leather from their hides
;
And so contrive that every coffin,
Which serves to lug a dead rogue off in,
Shall answer, if it be not made ill,
For living child, a clever cradle.
2°
Now, our Columbian politicians would have told Mr.
Malthus, that the only legitimate way of relieving the dis-
tresses of the poor of any country is for the government
to send what he calls the ' l
most valid patents," or in other
words, the circulating mediumi or what may be properly
called the representative of property out of the country,
by way of tribute to some foreign power, say France.
This may go under colour of buying the right to govern
(not the right of soil) certain lands in the moon, or such a
tract as Louisiana. Then, if ever the right to govern should
be disputed by the natives, or the purchased should attempt
to exclude the purchasers even from the rights of citizen-
ship, or disputes should arise about the boundaries, send
them more " patents
.
" These patents are to be obtained
by imposts on such articles of commerce as are least easily
dispensed with by the poor. This conduct, by introducing
" Misery and Vice," will prevent matrimony, and thus di-
minish population and of course the number of the poor,
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 189
Say Perkinism should be level'd ;
'Tis Galvanism worse bedevil 'd :
Indeed, they both are but a schism,
From old exploded Mesmerism. 2I
and thus finally terminate in an addition to the sum of
human happiness.
20 For living child, a clever cradle.
In the enumeration of my plans for universal improve-
ments, in my first canto, I absolutely forgot to mention
this scheme for publick economy. I do hope, trust, and
believe, that, should it strike the eye or the ear of the ge-
nerous and unassuming count Rumford, it will recommend
me to his kind notice, and as much liberal patronage as
he once extended to poor doctor Garnet.
We are not very highly pleased to perceive that the
Edinburgh Reviewers have made a most temerarious as-
sault on this philosopher. They affirm that they " profess
to be of the daily increasing number of those who do not
think very highly of count Rumford's talents as a philo-
sopher ;" and then, with no small degree of impudence,
make it appear that in a certain publication entitled an
inquiry concerning the " nature of heat and the mode of
its communication, Benjamin count Rumford, 8cc. &c. had
made exactly the same discoveries which had been previous-
ly detailed by one Mr. Leslie. They then affirm that after a
review of the whole work, if they were to state their opinion,
they would say, that count Rumford had borrowed Mr. Les-
lie's leading discovery, without completely understanding its
nature and extent ; that he had pursued it imperfectly, and
so mixed it up with errour and fanciful theory, as to dis-
figure it, and almost prevent one from recognizing the
property." Edinburgh Review.
190 MODERN PHILOSOPHER,
Though fools say Perkins never took,
Like Mesmer and De Mainaduc,
His patients' Mild imagination,
To join in aid of operation
—
And though they say, on man and horse,
The tractors act with equal force ;
Still, some among us can get through it,
And swear old Satan helps him do it
!
In proof of tractoring defection
Proclaim that wise and learn'd objection,
The famous argument, so handy,
About their modus operandi.
21
From old exploded Mesmerism.
The whole pretence of Mesmerism, or animal mag-
netism, was long since proved to be a fallacy, and blown up
accordingly, by a set of academicians at Paris. Our pro-
fession have shown great ingenuity in theirendeavours to
persuade mankind that Perkinism rested on the same foun-
dation and ought of consequence to share the same fate.
As it is ingenuously determined to class every innovation,
which militates against our interest, with some exploded
practice, I would respectfully propose that your worships
should do the justice to the person who first suggested
the idea of classing Perkinism with animal magnetism*
of requesting his acceptance of a statue.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 191
That a physician should neglect
To notice e'en a good effect,
Unless the cause, as he supposes,
Is nine times plainer than his nose is
;
And though° it may be urg'd by some,
That this grave reasoning's all a hum,
Because the learn'd are in the dark
How opium, mercury, acts, and bark,
To such reply you'll make no answers,
For much I question if you can, sirs
;
But rather for retort uncivil,
The poker take and lay them level.
22
x% The poker take and lay them level.
Please not to imagine that I would be understood to
recommend this " retort courteous" in the most unqualified
sense, or that it be exercised on every occasion. On the
contrary, the due performance of it will require no small
degree of prudence and discretion. Indeed, I would have
you use the poker, or any other violent and weighty argu-
ments of this kind, only when your antagonist happens to
be a woman, a child, or some debilitated and cowardly
wretch who will submit without any chance of your meet-
ing with unpleasant resistance.
As to the justice of this mode of response, there exists
no doubt, and therefore dread no decisions in foro con.
Hcientix, because the extreme heinousness of your adver-
192 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
From Haygarth, borrowing a rare hint,
Tell how these tractors, 'tis apparent,
The most insidious thing in nature,
Will e'en bewitch the operator! 71
saries' provocation will appear from the Tallowing con-
sideration. To deprive you of an argument, for which
you have sacrificed every thing dear to obtain, must, con-
fessedly, be regarded as a most outrageous proceeding.
Now, this is exactly the case in the present instance ; for
in your attempt to show that medical men believe and
trust in no medicine, the modus operandi of which they do
not comprehend, you make a sacrifice of truth, decency,
and common sense, the full reward of which sacrifice you
ought to enjoy unmolested. That no man can explain
how mercury cures the syphilis, bark an intermittent fe-
ver, or opium produces sleep, is confessed by every medi-
cal author ; and that all these should be used in our prac-
tice, without any hesitation, I never heard any person
deny, and for this proper and substantial reason ; their
administration is profitable to the faculty. I have there-
fore to repeat, that when the Perkinites complain of your
rejecting the use of the tractors, because their modus ope-
randi cannot be entirely explained, although you adopt
the use of drugs, the operation of which is equally or more
inexplicable, your sacrifice in support of your ground is
so great, that whoever attempts to drive you from such
ground deserves to be laid low with the first weapon that
comes to hand.
2 3 Will e'en beivitch the operator.
No part of the learned doctor's management, in the
anti-Perkinistick cause, merits higher eulogy than this
most rational explanation of that most irrational practice.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 193
Will break down reason's feeble fences,
And play the deuce with our five senses
!
So cogently does an innate principle of equity control me,
that I am absolutely coerced to offer, at the shrine of the
heroick doctor, my tributary dole of the incense of admira-
tion, for having presented our profession such a powerful
knock-me-down argument, wherewith to buffet the com-
mon enemy.
The sagacious doctor having published a scientifick
treatise against the tractors, demonstrating that " they act
on the fiatient's imagination," Perkins, came out in reply,
with all the fury of an Irish rebel, and declared that the
doctor deserved to be trounced for not suffering his readers
to know, that the tractors pretended to cure infants and
brute animals, though numerous cases to that effect had
then been published ; and in that reply proclaimed that Dr.
H. purposely endeavoured to suppress such facts, that he
might, with greater facility, induce the publick to swallow
the deductions drawn from his magical manoeuvres in the
Bath and Bristol hospitals, Now, admitting the doctor
managed in this way, I am sure he was perfectly right
in so doing. The end in view, according to established
principles of modern morality, will ever justify the means
taken to accomplish that end. In this case, the end in
view was most important—nothing less than the downfall
of Perkinism, and the consequent aggrandizement of our
profession. Should any of our opponents be so captious
as to assert, that such principles and such motives of action-
should not be encouraged in society—that they have a
pernicious tendency, and other nonsense of that sort, I
must take the liberty to refer them to the first consul of
the French republick, whose conduct has ever been mo-
delled according to the principles above stated, and who is
c C
194 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
And acts a part, so very scurvy,
They turn a man's brains topsy turvy !
Will so bewilder and astound one,
They make a lame horse seem a sound one !
Appear, with but three legs to wag on,
A Pegasus, or flying dragon !
!
Then quote his lady's ecchymosis,24
Which rose an inch from where her nose is
;
certainly the most powerful logician of the age, perfectly-
able to confound those who shut their eyes against the
light of conviction.
But to revert to the doctor's treatise, and Perkins's im-
pudent replication. The man who could raise the very
old gentleman himself, by the legitimate powers of ne-
cromancy, was not so easily defeated. Accordingly he
returns to the charge in another edition—admits the
existence of the numerous cases on infants, horses, &c.
but lays them all level with the following unanswerable
argument—" The proselyte^ of Perkinism having been
driven from every other argument, have, as a last resource,
alleged that the patent metallick tractors have removed the
disorders of infants and horses. Even this Jlimsy pretence
is capable of a satisfactory refutation. In these cases it is
not the fiatient, but the observer, who is deceived by his own
imagination!!!" See Haygarth's book, page ,40. Mirabile
dictu I
24 Then quote his lady's ecchymosis.
The celebrated story of the lady's ecchymosis comes
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 195
And was not bigger much, if any,
He states, than puny " silver penny."
handed down to your worships by five successive reporters.
The lady incog, who makes so conspicuous a figure in Dr.
Haygarth's narration, told another lady, who told a medical
friend of Dr. H. who told Dr. Caustick, who tells your
worships this important anecdote. Now as *• in the mul-
titude of counsellors there is safety," so in a multitude of
reporters there is certainty. But to the story ; which I
shall give in the language of Dr. H.'s medical friend afore-
said.
" A lady informed me, that a lady of her acquaintance^
who had great faith in the efficacy of the tractors, on seeing
a small ecchymosis, about the size of a silver fienny, at the
corner of the eye, desired to try on it the effect of her
favourite remedy. The lady, who was intended to be the
subject of the trial, consented, and the other lady produced
the instruments, and, after drawing them four or five times
over the spot, declared that it changed to a paler colour
;
and on repeating the use of them a few minutes longer,
that it had almost vanished, and was scarcely visible, and
departed in high triumph at her success. I was assured
by the lady who underwent the operation, that she looked
in the glass immediately after, and that not the least visi-
ble alteration had taken place !
!" (From Haygarth's book,
page 40.)
I had determined to exert my influence in all the medi-
cal societies, that the above case be read at the opening of
each meeting, until there should not be left of the tractors,
in this island, " a wreck behind." But a far better plan of
Dr. H. himself has precluded the necessity of this mea-
sure, which was to announce in all the advertisements of
his book in the publick papers, that " it explains why the
196 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
'Tvvas then assail'd, with courage hearty,
By juggling wench of Perkins' party,
And soon, to her beconjur'd eyes,
It seem'd a thousandth part its size.
" And now," quoth she, " I scarce can view it,
These tractors are the things that do it
;
disorders of infants and horses are said to have been
cured by the tractors." See his daily advertisements in
the papers.
Indeed, I am at a loss which to admire most, the pretty
fanciful relation above cited, which is all the new edition of
the doctor's treatise against the tractors contains to justify
the assertion in the advertisements before mentioned, or
his singular skill in constructing such a fabrick on this
foundation. Did I possess the talents of the doctor in the
advertising department, I should announce this my pithy
performance to the publick, by publishing in all the pa-
pers, that the price of the tractors was, in consequence
of Dr. Caustick's opposition fallen to the price of old iron,
and Perkins's pamphlets having been proscribed by phy-
sicians, were condemned, and actually burnt by the hang-
man on execution-day, at the Old Bailey, in the pre-
sence of every individual of the college of physicians,
and half the citizens of London.
I would beg leave to add to this incomparable Hay-
garthian demonstration an argument of my own, which
I think is not less powerful. It is impossible that these
tractors should perform any real cure, as they act solely on
the imagination either of the patient or the operator. But
cures performed by the power of imagination must be
imaginary cures, that is, no cures at all.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 197
Oh la ! I vow, it's taken flight,
And vanish'd fairly out of sight."
But madam Hoaxhoax, in her glass,
Beholding what it truly was,
Exclaim'd, " my last new wig I'll burn up,
If 'tis not bigger than a turnip ! !
!"
In publick papers, more's his glory,
The doctor advertis'd this story
;
And you'll confound the tractoring folks
By Haygarth's tale of lady Hoax. 25
2 5 By Haygarth's tale of lady Hoax.
It is not true, as some sagacious coffee-house politicians
have asserted, that madame Hoax (or more correctly
double Hoax) is the wife of a Chinese Mandarin, settled
on the mountains of the Moon, in Abyssinia, for the pur-
pose of ascertaining the influence of imagination in the
cure of diseases. No, gentlemen, she is a baroness of true
English breed, more sturdy than a Semiramis, a Pen-
thesilea, or a Joan of Arc, and will prove, in our cause,
a championess of pre-eminent prowess. Should your
worships wish for further acquaintance with this lady,
which in my opinion would be for your mutual advantage,
you will take the trouble to inquire at my garret, No. 299,
Dyot street, St. Giles's (having removed from my former
place of residence, third floor, 327, Grub street, with a
view of being nearer my friend, sir Joseph, in Soho square)
and her address shall be at your service.
198 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
Tell one more tale from ancient sages,
About the wondrous chain of ages,
I am now preparing a most awful tragedy for Drury
lane theatre (Mr Sheridan's approbation being already ob-
tained) to be entitled and called, the Dreadful Down-
fall of Terrible trrctorizing Confounded Con-
juration ; in which I propose to introduce a new song,
that I have no doubt will be so celebrated as to be the
theme of every ballad-singer in the metropolis. I cannot
forbear anticipating some small share of that applause,
which I have reason to suppose will be piled on Dr Caus-
tick, as soon as he is publickly known, as the author of such
an inimitable production, by obliging your worships with
a part of the chorus to the song aforesaid.
Come now let us coax
Haygarth and Dame Hoax,
Like true hearts of oaks,
To crack off their jokes,
While dreading their strokes*
Those sheep-hearted folks,
The tractoring Perkinites, quiver ;
O may they with knocks,
" And shivering shocks,"
Pound their jackets and frocks,
Till dead as horse-blocks,
(O what a sad box !)
They're thrown in the docks.
Or, just like dead cats, in the river !
This song is to be set to musick by Mr. Kelly in his very
best style of pathos, sublimity, and crotchets, and to be de-
lightfully demi-semi-quavered to the admiring audience by
Mrs. Billington. Then, if box, pit, and gallery, should not,
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 199
Gold, silver, brass, but not a link,
Compos'd of copper, or of zinc.
That, as it ever was the curse
Of man to go from bad to worse,
This age (the thought might e'en distract us)
Is that of vile metallick tractors !
That your last sixpence you will bet all,
Ages will follow of worse metal,
Unless this wickedness you stop,
To sweepings of a black-smith's shop !
Say that the devil never fails
26
To eat a tiger, stuff'd with nails
una voce, Nick Bottom-like, cry, " Encore ! Encore ! Let
her roar ! Let her roar ! Once more, once more ! Let the
squeak and the squall be swelled to a bawl, Dr. Caustick
will find the door ! Find the door 1 And never go there any-
more !
!
26 Say that the devil never fails.
This stanza contains a legendary tale, which I dare say
is as true, as that which commemorates a notable exploit of
St Dunstan in seizing old Satan, one dark night in the
tenth century, and wringing the nose of his infernal ma-
jesty with a pair of red-hot blacksmith's pincers, which
made him roar and scold at such a rate, that he awakened
200 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
With claws and head and hair on, munching
The savage creature at a luncheon
!
That one old woman, pain distracted,
This part of Satan over acted
;
In gulping tractors down, for med'cines, 27
With such effect, that faith she's dead since.
Then make it plain, by quoting Greek,
That this old hag, of whom we speak,
More brass and iron took in one day,
Than satan all the week, with Sunday.
But should the publick turn deaf ear to't,
Tell them that I know who will swear to't
;
and terrified all the good people of Glastenbury and its
neighbourhood.
2 7 In gulping tractors down, for med'cines.
An old lady of my acquaintance was actually advised by
an ingenious son of Galen, an apothecary, resident a few
miles north of London, to swallow tractors for an internal
complaint. If our profession were to follow this laudable-
example, and force their patients to swallow them for pills,
and then give the publick a judicious detail of the terrible
consequences, ending with the death of the patients, Per-
kinism would sink into that contempt in the estimation of
the publick which it justly deserves.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER* 201
And testify the whole affair
Before his honour, the* lord mayor
!
Say Perkinism was begotten
In wilds where science ne'er was thought on, 2S
- '
' — if
s8 In wilds where science ne'er was thought on.
That is, in the United States of America, among In-
dians and Yankees. You will find, gentlemen, much to
the purpose- relative to the state of science, where Per-
kinism originated, in the Monthly Magazine of January,
1803, under the title of " animadversions on the present
state of literature and taste in the United States, com-
municated by an English gentleman lately returned from
America." This gentleman gives information that the
Americans are wretchedly " behindhand in science with
the Britons." Indeed, those transatlantick younkers ought,
in half a century, to have established universities and other
seminaries of learning, at least as old and respectable as
those of Oxford and Cambridge, and which should have
graduated as many students and produced as many great
men. As to the parsimonious spirit of Americans in en-
couraging science (which this gentleman animadverts upon
with laudable indignation) it ought truly to be exclaimed
against by us Englishmen for the weighty reason follow-
ing : Great Britain, " from time whereof the memory of
man runneth not to the contrary" (as judge Blackstone
says) hath starved some of her first poets ; such for instance
as Butler, Otway, Chatterton, Dryden, Savage, &c &c.
Sec. &c. consequently (according to the same author) she
ought to enjoy the exclusive " customary privilege" of in-
flicting the horrours of starvation on the sons of the muses
:
bat it must be granted, for the honour of British munifi1*
D d
202 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
And had its birth and education
Quite at the fag end of creation !
For rareeshow, to England smuggled,
That honest christians, all bejuggled,
Might tamely suffer B. D. Perkins
To pick the pockets of their jerkins.
Say it was twinn'd with monstrous mammoth,19
And to go near it you'd be d—d loth,
30
cence, that the scientifick Herschel, in the decline of life,
as a reward for immortalizing his present majesty, by in-
scribing Georgium Sidus in the great folio of the heavens,
is allowed the enormous pension of 80/. per annum 1
!
This instance of liberality, in rewarding merit* has caused
me to suspend my animadversions relative to patronage
afforded men of real science in Great Britain, till I can dis-
cover whether it be the absolute determination of my
countrymen to starve doctor Caustick.
2
9 Say it was twinn'd with monstrous mammoth.
And must, of course, be a most terrible wild beast.
—
Ladies and gentlemen may form a tolerable idea of the
enormity of Perkinism, by viewing the skeleton of a mam-
moth now exhibiting in Pall Mall, in the very place where
lately were to be seen those terrible caricatures of the
devil, Sec. under the appellation of Fuseli's Milton Gal-
lery.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER, 203
Because it always eats poor sinners,
As I eat bread and cheese for dinners !
Say that it is " monstrum horrendum /"
As great a plague as God could send 'em.
Moreover, 'tis " informe ingens!"
Brought up among the western Indians.
Go on then ;
" lumen cui ademptumf
A worse thing Satan never dreamt on ;
And sure your worships cannot urge ill,
Such classick matter—all from Virgil.
Now when you've duly blaz'd about
These knock-down arguments, so stout,
3° And to go near it you'd be d—d loth.
This manifesto, you will please to recollect, is the lan-
guage of gentlemen physicians. Now it is well known
that you possess a privilege, sanctioned by long and in-
variable practice, if not founded on act of parliament, to
enforce your sentiments by certain energetick expressions,
which, in the mouths of people of less consequence, would
be considered as very vulgar, and nearly allied to firofane
swearing. And since your worships ever most manfully
exercise this privilege to the full extent of its limits, the
present manifesto would have been extremely inapposite
and unnatural, had not an ornament of this kind been in-
troduced.
204 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
Perhaps the foe will topple under,
Like rotten gate-posts struck with thunder !
But if the daring rebel rout
Should rashly strive to stand it out,
In following canto I'll disclose
How we'll proceed from words to blows.
CANTO IV.
GRAND ATTACK!
ARGUMENT.
Great Caustick finding logick sound
The conjuring crew will not confound,
Like an indignant hero blusters,
The mighty royal college musters ;
Joins to your worships' powerful phalanx
" Death-doing" quacks, and men of all ranks {
A bolder, and more desperate host,
Than jacobinick France can boast.
Then marches to o'erturn and knock dead
Each tractoring Perkinistick blockhead ;
Their institution next attacking,
He sends them all to Satan—packing I
OUR 'foresaid manifesto first done,
Which shows our cause a good and just one
;
The boldest sons of Galen call on,
'
That they with fire and fury fall on !
' The boldest sons of Galen call on.
I say the boldest ; for we cannot rely on the aid of the
whole Esculapian phalanx. Many white-livered dastards
206 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
Sound Discord's jarring tocsin louder,
Than Howard's fulminating powder :
2
who disgrace our profession have shown a disposition to
remain neuter, or fight under Perkinean banners !
2
Than Howard's fulminating powder.
It is a long time since the publick have had any refiorts
from the honourable Mr. Howard's fulminating powder
which, three years since, made so much noise, that the
world had reason to expect that the thunderiferous chymist
would make no more of exploding to old Nick a whole
army of Frenchmen, with Buonaparte at its head, than would
a cockney sportsman of shooting a tame goose on the first
of September.
Whether this mighty affair is all blown «/?, or what may
have been the cause of the silence of those who defended a
thing which so loudly proclaimed its own merits, it be-
comes Mr. Howard to explain.
Of this he may be assured, if he do not stir his stumps in
order to fulfil some of the fair promises which he and his
friends have made to the Royal Society and the publick, of
the astonishing achievements they were about to perform,
by the demi-omnipotent power of his new invented artificial
thunder, I hereby give the alarming intelligence that I will
apply my own superiour talents to this sonorous subject.
Should that happen, those laurels which were designed to
decorate the brow of Mr. Howard will be tied in a bow
knot round my venerable temples. For, in that case, the
learned chyrnist's acquisitions, in the art of intonation,
will bear no better comparison to those of Dr. Caustick,
than the clattering wagon-wheels of Salmoneus to the
world-astounding thunderbolts of Jupiter. No person
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 207
Then into battle like brave men go,
Who late were " kill'd off," at Marengo.
can doubt my being able to accomplish all this, who is
apprized, as he may be from perusing this performance,
of the vast quantity of the most detonating kind of mer-
cury which exists in my composition, and which will
fulminate with greater effect, than the gold and silver that
line the magnipotent purse of the honourable the heir ap-
parent to the duke of Norfolk.
,
« Kill'd off," at Marengo.
I have several times taken a confounded deal of trouble
to haul into my poem this beautiful specimen of parlia-
mentary elocution ; and, in my opinion, nothing can be
better imagined or more happily accomplished. Poetry
and oratory, as the ancients inform us, were both whelped
at one litter ; consequently the same phrase which glittered
in the harangue of my bull-baiting friend, William Wind-
ham, a British senator, cannot fail to cut a dash in the
stanza of his seraphical friend, Christopher Caustick, a
British poet.
Now, as I am a great admirer of French principles,
and that new and accommodating kind of morality, by
Frenchmen discovered, and which I ever have and ever
will eulogize, to the utmost extent of my faculties: per-
haps your worships will express no small degree of won-
derment why I should be the intimate friend of a gentle-
man, the blaze of whose oratory, one would suppose,
would have blasted Buonaparte, and even singed the whole
French republick. But those who are admitted behind
the political curtain will perceive that the tendency of the
measures which Mr. Windham supports is to promote
208 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
But choose a chief before you start,
A bully bold as Buonapart'
;
And to make sure of well succeeding,
Another chap like Charles of Sweden.
Step forth thou potent prince of puffers!
Thou modern Hercules of Hungers
!
Whose name, as Sternhold us'd to say,
Will ring " for ever—and a day ;*»
For thou canst sound (a thing the oddest,
Since an arch quaker should be modest,
And never meddle with a strumpet) 4
Thine own great name on Fame^s brass trumpet,
And soon that name's continuous roar
Shall roll sublime from shore to shore ;
Among th' antipodes, be known,
And blaze through either frozen zone. 5
those jacobinick principles, of which Dr. Caustick ofienly
and honestly professes himself to be the determined pro-
pagator and defender.
4 And never meddle with a strumfiet.
Surely, no person will imagine that I would, for the
World, allude to any other lady than madam Fame herself.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 209
No more shall merciless reviewers
Stick full of satire's savage skewers
The mighty chief of whom I'm boasting,
As one would spit a goose for roasting* 6
* And blaze through eitherfrozen zone.
I have very substantial reasons for spreading glad tidings
ef our redoubtable chieftain among the most distant inha-
bitants of the globe, in preference to endeavouring to add
to his great celebrity " within the periphery of his as-
sociates." And, whereas it has been said that this gei>
tleman's reputation will ever stand highest where he is
cither not known at all, or known only by those literary
productions, in which he is himself the theme of his
own most " ardent praise," mine shall be the humble
task of trumpeting the doctor's name among the distant
inhabitants of this dirty planet ; while the doctor shall him-
self " dip his pen in ethereal and indelible iuk, and im-
press his observations in characters legible in the great
volume of the heavens."
6 As one would spit a goose for roasting.
True it is, though " passing strange," that a great and
good man, composed, as he himself can attest, of the very
essence of humanity, is often most vilely, most audaciously,
and most atrociously bespattered by a set of saucy re-
viewers.
Those wicked wits, the writers in the Monthly and Cri-
tical Reviews, especially the latter, in a critique on one of
the late works of a certain doctor of Mangel Wurzel me-
mory, tells us that " the importance of a man to himself
was never more conspicuous than in this publication. Dr.
-Lettsom admits that he has been anticipated by several dis<-
e e
210 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
For should they raise with dire misprision,
'Gainst thee one finger in derision
;
tinguished authors ; but modestly hints that some of his
particular friends will form, no opinion [respecting the
eow-pox] till they have ascertained his sentiments." They
then have the audacity to declare, that " he merits no
slight punisment for his pompous inflated language, for
his fulsome flattery, and ridiculous exaggeration of every
part of the subject.'*
See how they speak of a late publication of the doctor
on certain charitable institutions :—" Unless to connect
these different institutions, to lead the different radii to a
centre, while that centre is the author and the editor, who
can boast, Qua ifise misserima vidi, et quorum fiars magna
fui! we see little advantage in this edition. We mean not
to intimate the slightest disapprobation of these institu-
tions, or of humanity in general ; but when we see pomp
and egotism assuming its garb, when vanity and ostenta-
tion occasionally peep from beneath the robe, we feel no
little disgust from comparing the fascinating exterior
with the unpleasing contents," &c. They likewise have
the impudence to assert, that some of the doctor's plans
are " better suited to the superstition of a Hindoo, than
to the nature of a rational christian." And in another re-
view they declare : " We mean not to stoop to any ; but
will tell Dr Lettsom his faults" (consummate assurance !
!)
" as well as any other author ; nor will we conceal that mean
mark of a little mind, overweening vanity. We saw it
in its germ, have watched its opening bud, till it is ex-
panded into its blossom. The literary life of Dr. L— -
may well be styled the progress of vanity : the termination
is yet to come : but we have ample materials for the sub-
ject." See Monthly Review, of July, and Critical Review
of Sept. 1802, and Feb. 1803.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 211
This right hand rudest doggrel's club in,
Shall give the knaves a dreadful drubbing.
But thou, the leader of our throng,
Shalt glitter in a future song,
Which I intend to raise sonorous,
And quack ! qjjack ! ! ojjack ! ! ! shall be, the
chorus.
Then, had I money, I would bet some,
And faith I'll do it (when I get some)
One half a guinea, sirs (a net sum)
They'll fall before great doctor Lettsom. 7
7 They'll fall before great doctor Lettsom.
I resolved to recommend your arranging yourselves un-
der the banners of this Leviathan of the Galenical throng,
from the moment I first heard of his noble and spirited
sally against the tractors. Disdaining the wretched tram-
mels of 10/iy and wherefore, and without assigning those
paltry trifles, called reasons, for his opinions, on the me-
rits of Perkinism, our intrepid commander determined to
extirpate it root and branch, with his simple zfise dixit.
This is what we ought to expect from a hero of such
prowess. See how well he manages these metallick
makers of mischief! In a eulogium (a very agreeable
thing to a modest man during his life time) on his friend
Dr. Haygarth, contained in the work which those wicked
reviewers above mentioned have treated so irreverently,
he mentions (page 277) the " important object," whicli
212 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
Thou too, fam'd knight of horrid figure !
With wig than bushel-basket bigger
;
Dr. Haygarth has so " happily effected." This is " arrest-
ing and subduing two poisons, the, most fatal to the human
race (fever and small-pox) and unveiling imposture,
clothed in the meretricious garb of bold quackery :" a
note on the word " imfwsture" in the margin says, " Ex-
periments on metallick tractors." Now, unless I can bor-
row the pen of the learned doctor, dipped in " ethereal
and indelible ink" and a whole literary apparatus in pro-
portion, I shall never be able to express how much I ad-
mire the matter above quoted, on account of the important
intelligence therein contained. Before Dr. L. asserted it
I dare say not an individual in the kingdom knew that
Dr. Haygarth had " effected" such an " important object,"
that fever and small-pox were subdued, altogether extinct,
despoiled of that venom which has hitherto " brought death
into the world," and so much wo. But true it is, they are
quite extirpated, and all this by Dr. Haygarth ! ! One cannot
but exclaim against the perverseness of those members of
parliament who, regardless of this news from Dr. L. voted a
reward to Dr. Jenner for his services in subduing the small-
pox, and to Dr. Smith, for his discoveries in subduing conta-
gious fevers. In short, I am almost ready to enforce the
charge of ignorance against my brethren in the profession;
for I have not yet met with one possessed of sufficient pene-
tration to see, that neither fever nor small-pox " has a
local habitation and a name among us," and that they
have been both " subdued," and all this " effected" and
by Dr. Haygarth
!
Now, to the latter part of our quotation, " unveiling
imposture, clothed in the meretricious garb of bold
quackery." This sentence, from p. 277, presents us the
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 213
Which, in its orbit vast, contains,
At least a thimble full of brains ;
whole proof of this u imposture.'* Not another syllable
on the tractors will be found in the body of the work.
In the index, however, mention is made of the sub-
jects discussed in the book, among which subjects, is
the following : " Imposture of the Metallick Trac-
tors," page 277 !! ! But this, as before intimated,
was quite sufficient for a gentleman of such scientijick
pre-eminence. Why should he trouble himself to search
for reasons, when he is sure to be believed, " within the
periphery of his associates," although he has no reasons
to give ?
I must here be indulged in adducing an instructive dia-
logue which actually took place, not many weeks since,
between a renowned physician, of the name of Dr. Lea-
therhead, and a gentleman, who was no physician at
all, whom I shall call Mr. Rowland.
Mr. Rowland. What is your opinion, Dr. LeatherheadV
of the metallick tractors ?
Dr. Leatherhead. Why I'll tell thee, friend Rowland
;
I think them as gross an imposition as ever was at-
tempted.
Mr. R. But, doctor, have you read the different cases
which have been published ? Can you believe that such
characters would give their names to false statements ?
Dr. L. These tractors, thee may be assured, friend R.
never performed a cure in the world- 'Tis 11 trash—all
nonsense—all imagination—and none but fools and knaves
are among their supporters.
214 MODERN PHILOSOPHER;
Come on, with lion heart, like Hector,
And phiz resembling monkey's spectre ;
Mr. R. How has Perkins become possessed of the cases
he has published ?
Dr. L. Oh ! that I can tell thee, very easily, friend R.
Has thee never heard of "Dr. Godbold ?
Ar. R. Certainly.
Dr. L. Well ; as he could neither read nor write, he
kept two men in constant employ, one to write his cases,
and one to swear to them. Some times, to be sure, a few
guineas were scattered about—Strange things these guineas
are, friend R. ha ? —Now friend R. can thee any longer
query how Perkins comes by his cases ? ha ! ha ! ha !
Mr. R. Have you ever seen, doctor, any of the publica-
tions of Mr. Perkins ?
Dr. L. Not I, truly. Knowing they could contain no-
thing but lies, I should have been but ill employed in
poring over such trash.
Mr. R. Did you ever see the tractors ?
Dr. L, No, nor ever wish to see them ; they are
—
Mr. R. (raising his voice, and taking a set of the trac-
tors from his pocket) Hear me, Sir ! Can you pretend to
any credit as an honest physician, as a man of humanity,
when sordid self interest and disgraceful prejudice impel
you to shut your eyes against investigation, lest conviction
should follow ? I am ashamed of your conduct. The
facts in favour of the metallick practice are supported by
testimony as honourable and disinterested as England can
produce. Your hint that they are forgeries^ or that they
have been purchased, implies a supposition of depravity
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 215
Prepare the batteries of thy journal,
1
To blast with infamy eternal,
among men, which, let me tell you, sir, reflects not very
favourably on the virtue of the source whence the idea
originated. With this set of tractors (holding them out
to view) I have cured above thirty indigent poor, and not
by the power of imagination, but by the power of the
Cractors.
Dr. L. (in a tone of Wonderful complacency and humi-
lity) Really, friend R. what thee says gives me great satis-
faction. I always knew thee to be a very sensible man,
and the information that thee approves of the metallick
tractors entirely changes my opinion of them. Before
thee took them out of thy pocket, I thought thee had no
belief in them. They certainly must be a very pleasant
remedy, and incapable of doing harm ; and as for myself,
I am such a friend to humanity, I shall ever be ready to
stand forward in support of every thing which can benefit
the publick. It really does my heart good to hear of the
services the tractors are now doing my poor afflicted fellow
creatures, for whom my bowels have so often yearned. I
am sure I shall be one of the greatest friends of Perkinism
in England: so farewell friend R. (Exit Dr. L. as pale as
ashes.)
In this dialogue I think there is great instruction. In
case any of our Olivers chance to meet with a Rowland,
and are involved in difficulties like those which threatened
this champion, they may here learn the true way of be-
coming " all things to all men," and sneak out of the
scrape to very little disadvantage : for though I would by
no means advise a retreat, where there is the least chancy
of success in fighting (which chance did not exist in this
216 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
In medical societies pour
Forth all thy wonted learned lore
:
case, for Rowland was preparing himself to give Leather-
head a most terrible threshing, had he not yielded) still
" He who fights and runs away,
May live to fight another day ;"
and the doctor escaping with a whole skin is now left alive
and mighty to assail the supporters of Perkinism in a
more cautious but not less decisive manner.
8 Prepare the batteries of thy journal.
Here I can, with certainty, calculate on the most power-
ful cooperation. This , what shall I call it ? This
official Gazette of the profession—this Medico-Chymico-
Cowz'co-Repository, for the effusions of self-puffers, pre-*
scribing rules and recipes,
" How best to fill his purse, and thin the town,"
this powerful instrument of offensive and defensive warfare
has ever, with becoming vigilance, guarded its post against
Perkinean invaders, and suffered no occasion to pass, with-
out a squirt of the Gallick acid of satire, when there was
deemed a possibility of blackening the common enemy.
I can never sufficiently express my approbation of the
Carthaginian cunning with which this journal has been
conducted. Dr. B. professing great impartiality, in an
early number (see vol. ii. p. 85) invited communications
on the subject of the tractors. Subsequent management
evidently showed a slight omission in the doctor's notice,
and that he meant communications on one side only ; for he
has omitted no pains to procure and publish whatsoever
could be suggested against the tractors : but though re-
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 217
Tell the vile deeds by quackery done,
By every nostrum, save thine own.9
ports of cases in their favour, and all the publications of
the patentee have been before him, not a syllable of these
was ever noticed by that gentleman ; neither has it ever
appeared by his journal that such facts ever existed !
9 By every nostrum, save thine own.
I appeal to any of my brethren who have been gratified,
as 1 often have been, with the Demosthenes-like torrent
which has been so frequently poured forth, in our medical
societies, by this " child and champion" of the Galenical
throng, against quackery and all its appurtenances, whether
it were fair to surmise, as some unconscionable rogues
have done, that Dr. B. has absolutely himself become the
proprietor of a quack medicine. The fire of eloquence
with which Perkinism, that most atrocious kind of
quackery, has been so frequently, and so effectually as-
sailed by the learned doctor at the medical society, at
Guy's, the Lyceum Medico Londinensis, &c. &c. Sec.
ought to have ensured Dr. B. so much of the gratitude of
the profession, that, although he should himself choose to
become one of the most arrant quacks in the kingdom, he
might depend on your support of his reputation, and your
exertions to uphold him. No subsequent apostasy on his
part, I maintain, will justify a dereliction of him.
Recall to your recollection, gentlemen, the denunciations
he has so often made against every medical practitioner
who should presume, either directly or indirectly, to offer
any patronage to remedies which bore even the most
distant resemblance to a nostrum. How often have the
walls of the medical theatres of Saint Thomas's hospital,
and Windmill street, echoed loud responses to his declama*
rf
218 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
For thou didst play the hero rarely,
At Westminster, when routed fairly
;
tions against the varlets, who should dare to recommend
means, in the profits of the consumption of which the
whole profession could not participate ? How often have
you received his invitations to send him your effusions and
declamations against quackery, to receive an efficient pub-
lication in his journal ? and what number of that journal has
appeared, without performing his promise, by honouring
those effusions with a place in its immortal pages ?
Lest even these most important considerations should
still find you inexorable, I trust I can show, by examining
his conduct in regard to the quack medicine in question,
that, if it be not praise-worthy, it is, at least, defensible.
The title of the nostrum which has had the assistance of
Dr. B. in being introduced to the notice of a grateful pub-
lick is " a new medicine for the gout." The pre-
tended discoverer of this specifick is, for very commend-
able, or, which is the same thing, very prudent reasons,
kept behind the curtain. I wish, however, to express my
utter disbelief that either Dr. Brodum or Dr. Solomon is
the happy mortal, however similar the style of the pam-
phlet, announcing this new medicine, may be to their
erudite writings, and the pretensions of the said medicine
to " balms of Gilead" and to " nervous cordials." That
neither of these gentlemen is the person at present incog,
who invented Dr. B.'s new nostrum aforesaid, appears to
me evident for three substantial reasons.
1. Drs. Brodum and Solomon have never shrunk from
a free exposure of their names, or evinced an inclination to
enjoy the emoluments of empiricism, without openly and
boldly coming forward to endure the stigma which is ever
its inseperable companion.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 219
Thy genius show'd such vast resources,
'Gainst Belgraves, Colquhouns, Wilberforces !'°
2. They have never declined the publick sale of their
nostrums in the shops, nor pretended to offer it to the pub-
lick without a remuneration ; whereas, in the present in-
stance, the nostrum is not sold at all in the shops ; but is
most generously given away, even two or three spoonfulls
at a time, by Dr. Bradley, to any person who wjll call on
him for advice, and leave with him a guinea for that advice*
3. Those two gentlemen, also, have never, honourably
and honestly, saved the commissioners of the stamp office
the trouble of collecting a revenue for government from
the consumption of their quack medicines, as none can be
collected on that which is given away.
But why do I labour to prove that which would be of no
moment, were the reverse of my opinion found to be the
fact, and that the medicine were in reality even the joint
property of that powerful trio, Brodum, Bradley, and Solo-
mon, when I have a most conclusive and honourable docu-
ment in favour of Dr. Bradley's honourable and consistent
conduct. This is no other than his letter to the unknown
proprietor of this blessing to the human race. Unfortunate-
ly for the edification of your learned body, my limks will
not allow of the insertion of the whole of that precious
communication ;
you will, therefore, please to treasure up
more eagerly the short extract I shall make.
The letter begins with a « sir," which scarcely leaves a
doubt that the happy mortal in question is not Mrs. Wil-
liams, the conjuress.
" As I afi/iroved of the manner in which you commenced
your trials of the virtues and efficacy of your gout medi-
220 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
Though hunted down, thou would'st not yield
;
Though trodden on, didst keep the field.
cine, I can have no objection to giving an opinion on the
subject."
Now, could any thing have been more proper ? Provided
Dr. Bradley " a/i/iroved" of the composition being kept a
secret, however disposed he may be to trample upon the
metallick tractors on that very account, he had an un-
doubted right to express himself accordingly. I have
another incontestable proof of the doctor's incomprehensible
wisdom and discretion.—He has ascertained that this in-
ternal medicine, though powerful " is safe and innocent
;"
which peculiar virtue is not possessed by any other internal
medicine that ever was, and I fear, ever will be discovered
again, unless Dr. B. tries his skill a second time. " This
point," says the doctor, " I ascertained on first receiving
a supply of it from you, by taking it myself, and also by
administering it to the patients labouring under, acute
rheumatism [so now the gout medicine will cure other dis-
eases !] in which cases it always relieved pain, without pro-
ducing any disagreeable effect on the constitution ! !
!" But
go on :
" In acutely inflammatory and painful attacks of
the gout, I have never seen it fail to produce the desired
effect." (Vid. page 57.) Euge ! Euge ! Great doctor
Bradley
!
Let no half-sighted mortal, who is aware of the achieve-
ments of this lordly chieftain and his imprecations so often
poured forth against every supporter of a nostrum, who
values among mankind that deportment, denominated con-
sistency, exclaim at this modest account of the virtues of
the present nostrum, " how are the mighty fal-
len ! !" No ! But let him ponder well, and recollect, that
Bradley " is an honourable man, and so are they all, all
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 221
Thus Witherington, in doleful dumps,
For lack of legs, fought stout on stumps
!
And could'st thou, pertinacious Bradley,
But maul these mutton heads most sadly,
Soon might thy wig (the people staring)
All in a chariot take an airing
!
! '
honourable men," who have raised the standard of defiance
.against the encroachments of Perkinism !
10
'Gainst Belgraves, Colquhouns, Wilberforces !
What business had these fellows to intrude their noses
into the concerns of the Westminster infirmary ? Brother
B. had an undoubted right to manage, or razsmanage, the
funds of a medical institution, as best suited his own con-
venience, without their troublesome interference.
«
' All in a chariot take an airing.
I hereby enter a protest against any one of my com-
mentators, whether he be Vanscanderdigindich the elder,
or Hansvanshognosuch, his cousin German (two Dutch
geniuses, who have promised to furnish the next edition
of this my pithy poem with a whole ass-load of annota-
tions) or any other gentlemen criticks or reviewers of
equal profundity, presuming to intimate, that I intend, by
this passage, the smallest disrespect to your pedestrian
physicians. Far from that } I know that many good and
great men (like myself, for example) cannot even pay 4
shilling for hackney-coach hire. No, gentlemen ; I have
two great objects in view, to wit
:
1 . To encourage my brother B— to persevere in his
222 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
Led on by chieftains so redoubted,
These vile Perkineans must be routed ;
laudable attempt to kick Perkinism back to the country
whence it originated, by reminding him, that if the feat were
once performed, he might, fierha/is}
soon afford the ex-
pense of a chariot to transport, in a respectable manner,
all that wig, without laying the entire burden on the cu-
rious sconce it now envelops.
2. To remind brother B—i, and the profession in gene-
ral, how much more execution may be done by a charioteer
than by a pedestrian physician.
Although great men frequently differ, I am happy to
find Mr. Addison's opinion and mine, in this particular,
perfectly consentaneous.
" This body of men," says he, speaking of physicians
in our own country, " may be described like the British
army in Cesar's time. Some slay in chariots, and some
on foot. If the infantry dp less execution than the cha-
rioteers, it is because they cannot be carried, so soon, into
all parts of the town, and despatch so much business in
so short a time." Spectator, No. 2 1
.
Not an individual, I will venture to assert, who knows
my brother B—, but must feel the really urgent necessity
of elevating him, as soon as possible, from le fiave and
giving those talents their full swing. Then, indeed, soon
might our charioteer justly boast
—
" London, with all her passing bells, can tell,
By this right arm what mighty numbers fell.
Whilst others meanly ask'd whole months to slay,
I oft despatch 'd the patient in a day.
With pen in hand, I push'd to that degree,
I scarce had left a wretch to give a fee.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 223
Then, if in future people be sick,
They'll worship us, the gods of physick.
Why stand ye now, like drones, astounded,
The weapons of your warfare grounded ?
Arm'd cap-h-pe, like heroes rush on,
And crush this reptile institution.
But first, to make the bigger bluster,
Join every quack that you can muster,
Some place in rear, and some in front on,
From Brodum down to gaseous Thornton.
Some fell by laudanum, and some by steel,
And death in ambush lay in every pill
;
For save, or slay, this privilege we claim,
Though credit suffers, the reward's the same."
11
From Brodum down to gaseous Thornton.
I am fully sensible that many of my brethren, of less
discernment than myself, would have assigned this famous
little genius a rank on the empirical list even above Dr.
Brodum. Making fluffing their criterion, they will argue
that those acute half-guinea paragraphs which we occa-
sionally see at the fag end of the Times and other morn-
ing papers, respecting that " very learned physician,"
—
his " great discoveries, and improvements in the medical
application of the gases,"—his « grand national and bo-
tanical work," and fifty others of the same strain, asserting
the high claims of this airy writer on the gratitude of the
224 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
Now when the foe you first get sight on,
Shout 9 a ira, and then rush right on ;
publick, are incontestable proofs of his superiour merits in
the puffing department, which, say they, are some of the
most necessary ingredients in the formation of a charla-
tan. All this is specious reasoning ; but I trust I shall
%how its fallacy. Pre-eminence, in my opinion, must be
founded on some intrinsick excellence, original and inde-
pendent of adventitious circumstances. If we closely
examine the merits of this candidate, we shall find that
there can be no great claim on this score. Let any man
enjoy the facilities and advantages of a general dealer in
the airs, who must of course have puffs of all descriptions
at hand ; and where is the merit of occasionally letting off
one?
If there be any thing like originality in this industrious
little philosopher, and for the invention of which I should
be inclined to allow him the credit of ingenuity, it con-
sists in his meritometer, which proposes to measure the
merits of his fellow creatures by the degree of faitn they
can afford to bestow on the infallibility of his gasses as a
panacea. See his plan of this instrument or rather the
deductions drawn from his trials of it, in his large five
volume compilation of" Extrac's" vol. i. page 459. From
this scale it appears, that ^^ of mankind are either fools
or knaves, as that proportion places no confidence in the
efficacy of his catholicon. I hope, therefore, after the
good reasons here assigned for my conduct, I shall not be
suspected of partiality to Dr. Brodum in retaining him at
the head of the quacks, nor ill will to Dr. T. for not calling
him up higher on the list.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 225
And make as terrible a racket,
As ever did a woman's clack yet,
'
3
3 As ever ciid a woman's clack yet.
Notwithstanding what Swift, and other gentlemen of the
order of Cynicks, have said or sung to the disparagement of
the fair sex,and notwithstanding the many rebuffs I have my-
self received, whenever I have attempted to win the heart of
any divinityship, above the order of a Billingsgate lady,
still I had supposed the fair sex, although the weaker ves-
sel, were entitled to a great share of our indulgence and
protection ; and could not of consequence so well discover
the motives actuating those philosophers who have en-
deavoured to persuade us, that the fairer half of mankind
were made merely for the purpose of being a thorn in the
side of the other half. But my wife, as before intimated,
(page 5 3) being an intolerable scold, I have, at length,
become a complete woman hater, and have as great an
antipathy to a female as ever a toad had to a spider.
I have, however, formerly had so much experience in
love affairs, that* for twenty years past, I have thought my-
self amply qualified to set up for a sort of love casuist ; have
given much good advice respecting the best mode of ad-
justing all affairs of the heart, and have acquitted myself
much to the satisfaction of those ladies and gentlemen, who
have consulted me on the occasion.
Now, as you are about to commence a most terrible com-
bat, from which it is ten to one if one in ten of your ho-
nourable body ever return alive, I could wish, out of the su-
perabundance of my humanity, that you should enjoy life as
much as possible, before you are « killed off," or, as our
best modern philosophers (Dr. Darwin and others) would
C- a
226 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
For should you sound a loud alarum,
Perhaps you may so sadly scare e'm,
have it, go to sleefi, and therefore regale you, for a moment
with certain love songs, which may be either said or sung
to the tune of Cufiid forever.
One doctor De Squirt
Had married a flirt
Not quite half so old as himself, sir,
And she, though a beauty,
Still thought it her duty
To have him for sake of his pelf, sir.
A neighbouring clerk
Spruce, handsome, and smirk,
A genteel and amorous blade, sir,
One night, it is said,
Found the way to his bed,
And the doctor a cuckold was made, sir.
When the doctor this heard
Revenge was the word,
To the younker a challenge he sent, sir,
To kill the young dog
As dead as a log
No doubt was his bloody intent, sir.
But the lusty young spark,
Was as fierce as a shark,
Swore he'd be our Oliver's Rowland,
And that he intended
Ere the matter was ended
To lay him at full length below land.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 227
Like frighted sheep, they'll huddle right in
The Old Nick's den, without much fighting.
The doctor first shot,
And kill him—did not
;
Though the fellow had lain with his wife, sir,
The buck fir'd so straight,
Though he miss'd the man's pate,
He made him a cripple for life, sir.
Thus the doctor bought wit
But paid dear for it
As is, to be sure, not uncommon,
Found it not a good plan
For an old gentleman
To marry a pretty young woman.
The other song with which I shall oblige you is quite
a tid bit of sentimentality, and cannot fail to wonderfully
titillate your right worshipfuls' intellectual palates.
THE FORTUNE HUNTER.
A young buck married an
Old haggard harridan,
And all for the sake of her money, sir,
Quite toothless and shrivel'd,
Like a witch that's bedevil'd,
So he lov'd her no better than honey, sir.
And now, having cash, sir,
He cut a great dash, sir,
And kept half a dozen sweet misses,
Who gave him great pleasure
In hours of his leisure,
But dearly he paid for their kisses.
228 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
Just so a gang of Indian savages,
When they set out to make great ravages,
With war-whoop fright their foes (God help 'em)
And then proceed to kill and scalp 'em.
But now, ere further we proceed,
To set forth every mighty deed,
With his horses and hounds
He dash'd beyond bounds,
Was noted for vast hospitality,
And went to each rout
The country about,
And liv'd with the top of the quality.
There ne'er was a squire
Drank more or liv'd higher,
Till at thirty, without any doubt he
In looks was as old
As if fourscore he'd told,
Besides being terribly gouty.
Thus through life he dance?
Till all his finances
Wont purchase a dram for his whistle
He then makes a horrid
Great hole in his forehead
By help of an old borrow'd pistol
!
This, gentlemen, is a specimen of my powers in the
sentimental, pathetick and love lorn : what succeeds in
this grand performance will be in regular gradation, from
the sublime to the dreadful, till I arrive at the acme of
the horrid, where I shall take leave of your worships with
all the sang froid imaginable.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER, 229
We must exchange (tho' horrour stiffen ye)
Our Clio for a fell Tisiphone !
For when we do these wretches batter,
'Twill be no water gruel matter;
And you'll agree then, I assure ye,
My muse is well chang'd for a fury.
Thou spite ! thou hag ! thou witch ! thou spectre !
Friend Southcy's crony and protector :
14
V* Friend Southey's crony and protector
!
Nothing but the most urgent necessity could have in-
duced me to have formed any intimacy with the haggard
harridan, which my friend substituted for a muse, in giving
birth to the 9th book of his epick poem, called Joan of
Arc. Wishing for some kind of celestial influence (as
is customary on similar occasions) to assist in describing
the dreadful battle we are about to commence, I sought,
in due form, the aid of Apollo, the tuneful nine, Delia
Crusca's" genius or muse," and all the gods, goddessess,
entities, or nonentities, who were ever known to lift a poor
poet from the bathos of profundity to the hufisos of
sublimity But not one of their deityships would risk his
or her neck and reputation in our perilous rencontre. I
was, of course, driven as my denier resort, to this old fury.
If your worships have any ambition for a further ac-
quaintance with this poetical non-descript, you will turn to
the aforesaid 9th book of " Joan of Arc," and between the
20th and 40th lines, you will find a " female" guiding a
" crazy vessel" with a " spread sail before the wind," " that
230 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
Who led'st the bard, with Joan of Arc,
Through death's deep, dreary, dungeon dark I
Until ye were, I dare be bound,
Near half a mile down under ground ;
Mid screeching ghosts and dragons dreadful,
As e'er fill'd dreaming madman's head full
!
And, after mighty perils past,
On Terra Firma, got at last,
moans melancholy mournful to her" (Joan of Arc's) " ear,
as ever by the dungeon'd wretch was heard howling at
evening, round the embattled towers of that hell-house of
France !" Examine this female more minutely (if you
are not already frightened out of your senses) and you will
perceive that " wan her face is, and her eyes hollow, and
her sunk cheeks are furrowed deep, channelled, by tears ;
a few grey locks, hang down beneath her hood ; and the
night breeze passing, lifting her tattered mantle, discloses
a serpent gnawing at her heart." Then, if pleased with
this specimen of the horrible, your worships, the right
honourable the members of the royal college of physicians,
may s(e/i into the " crazy vessel" aforesaid, and proceed
with baud, hag, and joan aforesaid, and, you will soon
be introduced to giant " despair," with " eye large and
rayless ; blue flames on his face, with a death cold touch,
Sec." But as for myself, however honoured I should feel,
on all other occasions, with your worships company, after
wishing your good worships a stiff breeze, I must beg
leave to be off.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 231
Didst dub thy jacobin toad eater
The " Thalaba" of English metre. 1
;
5 The Thalaba of English metre.
Mr. Southey, in his work with the title of " Thalaba or
the Destroyer," has given us a fine example of a pleasing
dreadful performance, which is neither prose, rhyme, nor
reason. Indeed, nothing but the inspiration of the gas
which we have seen him inhale in the first canto could have
generated the following effusions.
" A Teraph stood against the cavern side,
A new born infant's head,
That Khawla at his hour of death had seized,
And from the shoulders wrung.
It stood upon a plate of gold,
An unclean spirit's name inscribed beneath :
The cheeks were deathy dark,
Dark the dead skin upon the hairless skull
;
The lips were bluey pale ;
Only the eyes had life,
They gleamed with demon light."
Book ii.
Again he towers in book v.
" There where the narrowing chasm
Rose loftier in the hill,
Stood Zohak, wretched man, condemned to keep
His cave of punishment.
His was the frequent scream
Which far away the prowling Chacal heard,
And howled in terrourback.
Far from his shoulders grew
Two snakes of monster size
232 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
And set the bard to brew a mess
Of horrour in a wilderness,
That ever at his head
Aimed eager their keen teeth
To satiate raving hunger with his brain.
He in the eternal conflict oft would seize
Their swelling necks, and in his giant grasp
Bruise them, and rend their flesh with bloody nails,
And howl for agony,
Feeling the pangs he gave, for of himself
Inseparable parts his torturers grew."
Now, if in this age of turmoils your worships should
have occasion to educate a school of assassins, to be em-
ployed as Talleyrand employs his agents, for the purpose
of promoting modern philanthropy and French projects
of universal empire, I should advise you to prepare them
intellectual food from such descriptions as we have quoted
above. By accustoming your pupils to meditate on such
horrible descriptions you will soon enable them to inflict
without compunction or remorse sufferings like those,
which they have been in the habit of contemplating.
We are sorry to see, however, that our friend, Dr. Dar-
win, has been pleased to express his disapprobation of this
species of the terrible in style, without which your small
poets can never become conspicuous. We shall, however,
quote one of his sentiments on the subject merely to let
the world know that we great wits do not always tally upon
every point.
The doctor tells us in his Botanick Garden, p. 1 15, that
there is a " line of boundary between the tragick and
the horrid ; which line, however, will veer a little this
way or that, according to the prevailing manners of the
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 233
So wondrous horrible, indeed it
Might make one faint away to read it
!
Thence sent him under " rooted waves"
Adown through vast Domdaniel caves,
16
age or country, and the peculiar association of ideas, or
idiosyncrasy of mind, of individuals."
Now I am apprehensive that doctor Darwin would have
adjudged the greater part of Mr. Southey's sublimity
to be of the " horrid" rather than the tragick or sublime
kind. Such an opinion, however, would not only great-
ly tarnish the reputation of the critick who should
venture to pronounce it; but would entirely put down
many pretty good poets, who, its Hie Edinburgh reviewers
say, must have a " qu'il mourut," and a " let there be
light" in every line ; and all their characters must be in
agonies and ecstacies, from their entrance to their exit.*
16 Adown through vast Domdaniel caves.
That is, as Soulhey says, through the Domdaniel caves,
u at the roots of the ocean."
Thalaba, having leaped into a " little car" which appears
to have been drawn by " four living pinions, headless,
bodyless, sprung from one stem that branched below, in
four down arching limbs, and clenched the earrings endlong
and aside, with claws of griffin grasp ;"
« Down—down, it sank—down—down-
Down—down—a mighty depth !—
Down—down—and now it strikes."
* See Edinburgh review of Southey5
* Thalaba, October, 1802.
h h
234 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
In which the metre man and Thalaba,
Had like to have been lost infallibly :
But were translated in a trice
To monsieur Mahomet's paradise,17
There to enjoy, with Houri-ladies,
A whole eternity of play days.
Give me in proper tone to tell,
Between a mutter and a yell,
How best our fierce avenging choler
May work dire deeds of doleful dolour.
There's the bathos to perfection !
Now, if we could in any way have prevailed on Mr.
Southey to have stopped this side of the centre of gravity,
we should have been happy to have hired his " car" for this
our dreadful rencontre. But as it appears that the Dom-
daniel cave soon after fell in> I fancy it would cost more to
dig out this vehicle than to get Mr. Southey to make us a
new one.
17 To monsieur Mahomet's paradise.
" Thalaba knew that his death-hour was come,
And on he leapt, and springing up,
Into the idol's heart
Hilt deep he drove the sword.
The ocean-vault fell in, and all were crushed.
In the same moment at the gate
Of paradise, Oneiza's Houri-form,
Welcomed her husband to eternal bliss."
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 235
Come on ! Begin the grand attack
With aloes, squills, and ipecac ;
And then with clyster-pipe and squirt- gun,
There will be monstrous deal of hurt done !
Each wry-fac'd rogue, and dirty trollop,
Must well be dos'd with drastick jalap,
And though their insides you should call up,
Still make the numsculls take it all up.
Cram all the ninny-hammers' gullets,
With pills as big as pistol bullets ;
Then, Frenchman like, give each a clyster,
And next go on to bleed and blister.
Dash at them escharoticks gnawing,
Their carcases to pick a flaw in
;
Of nitrous acid huge carboys,
Fill'd to the brim, like Margate hoys.
Thus when the Greeks with their commander,
That fighting fellow, Alexander,
Set out one morning, full of ire,
To take and burn the town of Tyre
;
A patriotick stout old woman
Look'd out, and saw the chaps a coming
;
236 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
When on a sudden she bethought her
To heat a kettle full of water;
And as they went to climb the ladder,
(Sure never vixen could be madder,
But so the historian of the fray says)
She fir'd her water in their faces !
But to return to our great battle ;
Now rant ! rave ! roar ! and rend ! and rattle
!
l3
Like earth-born giants when they strove,
To pull the ears of thundering Jove !
Pelt the vile foe with weapons missile ;
Make vials round their sconces whistle ;
Shower on them a tremendous torrent,
Of gaily pots and bottles horrent.
Make at 'em now like mad Mendozas ;
With forceps pinch and pull their noses,
— i i
.
18
Now rant ! rave ! roar ! and rend ! and rattle.
I Christopher Caustick, censured by criticks, for my
apt alliterations, though artfully allied, yet presume it is
policy, for a .^ennyless /?oet to /zolish his /mny lays to such
a/dtch of perfection, that posterity may /?lease to/?lace the
/dthy production paramount to the peaked /joint of the
pinnacle of -Pierian Parnassus.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
With tournequet and dire tooth drawers,
First gird their necks, then break both jaws,
But lo ! They bid our dread alliance
Of doctors, quacks, and drugs defiance ;
And, firm as host of cavaliers,
Convert their tractors into spears
!
See host to host and man to man set
!
A tractor each, and each a lancet
!
Each meets his foe, so fierce attacks him
!
That sure some god or demon backs him !
Fell Ate's shriek the world alarms !
Bellona bellows " arms ! to arms !"
War's demon dire, a great red dragon,
Drives, Jehu-like, Death's iron wagon ! !
'
9
237
'9 Drives, Jehu -like, Death's iron wagon ! i
A poet of less judgment than myself would have seated
Mars in the chariot of Victory, a Vauxhall car, or some
other flimsy vehicle of that kind, which would be sure
to be dashed to pieces in a conflict like this in which we
are at present engaged. The carriage here introduced
was made by Vulcan, in his best style of workmanship, for
the express purpose of this attack, and in point of strength
and size, bears no more proportion to the chariot com-
monly used by the god of war, than one of those huge
broad-wheeled Manchester wagons to the little whalebone
238 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
Loud shouts and dismal yells arise !
Rend the blue " blanket" of the skies !
20
Grim Horrour's scream and Fury's frantick
Howl might be heard across the Atlantick !
!
Although a comet's tail should hap
To give our globe a fatal slap,
The " crush of worlds" and " wreck of matter'
Would make ten thousand times less clatter !
Thus high in air two different kinds
Of monsieur Volney's warring winds
Commence a most impetuous battle,
And round the Blue Ridge make all rattle.
2I
thingamy which the duke of Queensbury ran at New
Market.
a° Rend the blue " blanket" of the skies.
This is the same " blanket" which Mr. Canning said
was " wet" when he exhibited it in the house of com-
mons. Since his use of it on that occasion it has been
so frequently wrung by the wits, that it has now become a
perfectly dry and almost thread-bare article.
J
2I
And round the Blue Ridge make all rattle.
Volney informs us in his View that the Allegheny
mountain is the frontier on which the south-west and north
west winds in America contend ; and that he beheld a
spectacle of that kind at Rockfish Gap, on the Blue Ridge,
See American edition, page 148.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
Now loud they bellow, blow and bluster,
With all the power that all can muster;
Now hurtle, howl, and hiss, but neither
Will yield his foe an inch of ether.
Now to the wretches give no quarter,
Pound them in indignation's mortar
;
Let not the women nor the men chance
To 'scape the pestle of your vengeance
!
Make cerebrum and cerebellum,
To rattle like a roll of vellum,
And occiput of every numhead,
To sound as loud as kettle-drum head.
With fell trepaning perforator,
Pierce every rascal's stubborn pate, or
With chissel plied with might and main,
Ope a huge hole in pericrane.
And with a most tremendous process,
With power of elephant's proboscis,
At once crush dura, pia mater,
As one would mash a boil'd potatoe
!
Now batter them with such rude shocks
They'll think vast moon-disploded rocks
239
240 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
Are tumbling down in showers of granite
To " kill off" every man they can hit.
"
22 To " kill off" every man they can hit.
It is to me a matter of doubt whether your worships
are not absolutely ignorant of the causes and effects of the
wonderful phenomena to which we now allude. But if
you will please to take with us a stand for observation,
exactly at the centre of gravity between the earth and the
moon, and look about you with the eyes of great philoso-
phers you will perceive what is well worth a world of ad-
miration.
You will perceive that what is vulgarly called the man
in the moon is a prodigious volcano, in size much superiour
to any on our globe, and that this volcano is continually
emitting rocks, which ever and anon are thrown beyond
the sphere of the moon's attraction, and of course make
their way down upon us.
You will likewise find, by turning to the second volume
of the Philadelphia Literary Magazine, page 389, an ac-
count of above thirty different showers of stones some of
which have weighed not less than 300 pounds. And you
will ascertain that there has been a great diversity of
opinions among philosophers respecting the origin of these
prodigies. Some have believed them to be thruwn from
some neighbouring volcano. Some have thought them to
have been wafted about by hurricanes. Others have sup-
posed them to have been concretions formed in the atmos-
phere. Some have thought them to be masses which \ re
detached from the planets at the time of their forma-
tion ; and that they have been floating about in infinite
space till they met with our earth, which became to them
a new centre of gravity.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 241
Now, with harsh amputating saw,
Slash frontal os from under jaw ;
But the truth is, as you may see through any common
optical tube, from the situation to which I have just had the
honour to conduct you, that these masses of matter are
the product of lunar volcanos. Here we have a cause
adequate to the effect, as I shall make evident in the
following few words.
A lunar volcano similar to those on our planet would
project bodies much further from the moon than they
would be thrown by the same force from Etna or Vesu-
vius ; for,
1. It is granted by great philosophers, such as ourself
and Dr. Darwin, that the moon has no atmosphere ; of
consequence, a body exploded from the moon would meet
with no resistance excepting from the power of gravita-
tion. Dr. Darwin informs us, Botanick Garden, canto ii.
" If the moon had no atmosphere at the time of its eleva-
tion from the earth ; or if its atmosphere was afterwards
stolen from it by the earth's attraction, the water on the
moon would rise quickly into vapour ; and the cold pro-
duced by a certain quantity of this evaporation would
congeal the remainder of it. Hence it is not probable
that the moon is at present inhabited ; but as it seems to
have suffered and to continue to suffer much by volcanos, a
sufficient quantity of air may in process of time be gene-
rated to produce an atmosphere, which may prevent its
heat from so easily escaping, and its water from so easily
evaporating, and thence become fit for the production of
vegetables and animals.
« That the moon possesses little or no atmosphere is
deduced from the undiminished lustre of the stars at the
I i
242 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
And make a wound, by cutting slant down,
For doctor Tasker to descant on. iJ
instant when they emerge from behind her disk. That
the ocean of the moon is frozen is comfirmed from there
being no appearance of lunar tides," &c.
2. Bodies on the moon possess much less gravity in
proportion to their quantity of matter than bodies on the
surface of the earth ; for matter is attracted by the earth
and moon, respectively, in proportion to the quantity of mat-
ter which each contains It follows that a comparatively
slight impulse, communicated to a body on the moon's
surface, would be sufficient to counteract its attraction
towards the moon, and if it were propelled towards the
earth it might come within its attraction, and would of
course make its way to our planet.
Thus it appears very evident, even to persons of your
worships' ordinary penetration, that these wonderful showers
of stones are of lunar origin.
2 3 For doctor Tasker to descant on.
I feel a very great solicitude to mould and modify every
part and parcel of this performance according to rules
and regulations of the best master-builders of epick poems,
tragedies, and other great tilings of that kind. The ju-
dicious critick will perceive that all my wounds are in*
flicted with anatomical accuracy, and I have no doubt but
my friend Dr. Haygarth will do himself the honour to
write a treatise upon this subject and tell the world with
wha^ terrible propriety we have hewed and hacked our
opponents in the field of battle. The reverend William
Tasker, A. B. has furnished a model of this species of
criticism in A Series of Letters, respecting " The Ana-
tomical Knowledge of Homer, Etc." Dr. Haygarth I expect
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 243
Attack Medulla, hight Spinalis,
From where the head to where the tail is
;
H
Till with rude banging, thumping, thwacking,
You break each bone each booby's back in
!
Thus Virgil tells of sturdy fellows,
Dares yclep'd, and old Entellus,
will prove that the " death wounds" of Sarpedon, Hector,
Ulysses' dog, Sec. as displayed in the treatise of Dr. Tasker,
were mere flea bites compared with these of Dr. Caustick.
24 From where the head to where the tail is.
Or more correctly where the tail was. Lord Monboddo
tells us that men, as well as monkies, were formerly
dignified with long tails protruding from the place where
(according to Butler) honour is lodged. Philosophers
and antiquaries had never been able to discover how man
became devested of this ornament, till my friend, Dr. An-
derson, furnished a clue to the mystery. (See note 30,
canto i.) From this discovery I am led to suppose that
your antediluvian bucks began the practice of cuR-^V-ing
these excrescences for gentility's sake, and what was at
first artificial became in due time natural, till, at length,
your right ti/i/iies, as in modern times, were entirely dis-
encumbered ofthat monkey-like appendage : but our Bond-
street loungers, although devested of that exteriour mark
of the monkey, with a laudable desire to prevent the in-
tentions of Nature from being defeated, have adopted all
the ourang-outang.ical airs which she originally desxgned
should discriminate that species of animle from men.
244 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
Who, with a pair of iron mittens,
Attack'd each other like true Britons.
Entellus, stout as Hob the giant,
Made horrid work, you may rely on't
;
Exceeding mightiest verse or prose deed,
Knock'd out two teeth, and made his nose bleed I
And now, with desperate trocar,
Urge on the dreadful "tug of war ;"
And, when you've stuck them in the crop, say
You meant to tap them for the dropsy.
With burning lapis infernalis,
25
Convince them human nature frail is ;
2 5 With burning lapis infernalis.
The use of this caustick and other escharoticks on this
momentous occasion reminds me of an important era in
my life, a succinct biographical sketch of which I shall
shortly publish, in nineteen volumes folio ; a work which,
in point of size, erudition, and interesting anecdote, will be
immensely preferable to the voluminous production of lord
Orford.
The event in question was of the greater consequence, as
it gave rise to the present family name of" Caustick."
Just thirty-two years since, from the fourteenth day of
last July, while I was prosecuting some of my chymical
researches, my eldest son Tom, a burly-faced boy, since
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 245
And taunting, tell them they're afflicted,
Because they are to sin addicted.
killed in a duel with a hot-headed Irish gentleman, over-
turned a bench, on which were placed seven carboys full
of acids, alkalies, Sec. and broke them into inch pieces.
The consequences of this accident may be more easily con-
ceived than described. The whole neighbourhood was
alarmed, and many most terribly causticized, in endeavour-
ing to extinguish the conflagration which ensued. In the
consternation, and amid the exertions to subdue it, some
one cried out that Dr. Crichton (for such was my former
name, being the lineal descendant from the celebrated " ad-
mirable Crichton") is fairly a Dr. Caustick.
Thus began my honorary name, of which, as it is
scientific!:, I am not a little proud, especially as it was ac-
quired by virtue of an exfilosion, similar to that which
gave the honorary appellation of Bronte to my friend,
viscount Nelson of the Nile. For further particulars
respecting this important event, you will please to in-
quire at the Herald's college, where, I dare say,
" garter principal king at arms," sir Isaac Heard, knt.
has done me the justice to register the occurrence. In-
stead of lions, bulls, boars, camels, elephants, and such in-
significant animalcule, my shield is decorated with insignia
more appropriate to my great pretensions. On the left
are seen broken carboys couchant, implying that the secrets
of science lie prostrate before me. On the right are
fumes rampant, indicative of my discoveries, which soar
above those of all other pretenders. In the centre arc nine
hedgehogs, with quills, stickant, a happy emblem of my
peaceable disposition.
My motto, which I trust sir Isaac has also registered, is
worthv of notice. Dr. Darwin was much pleased with it,
246 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
With scalprum scrape off epidermis
And cuticle (I think the term is)
and, desirous to emulate my fame in the art of motto ma-
king, made, " omnia e conchis." But your worships will
perceive that the doctor's motto bears no comparison with
mine, in point of erudition ; as I prove myself versed in
three languages ; whereas he can boast of only one. Here
it comes.
O asv3-f»5re;, or *j ywvt
Lacessit never me impune 1
!
This, my beautiful and appropriate motto, for the sake of
accommodating those among your worships, who are not
versed in the lore of Greece and Rome, and cannot afford
to subsidize men of erudition to officiate for you in that
department of science, I shall render into our vernacular
idiom, as follows
:
If I'm attack'd by man or trollop
111 dose the knave with drastick jalap.
Lest the more critical and polite reader should complain,
that in order to let myselfdoivn to the level of your worship-
ful capacities, I have anglicized my sublime motto in too
vulgar and colloquial a style, I shall take the liberty, po-
litely, to parodize thereon, and, as lord Bacon says, " to
bring it home to men's business and bosoms ;" that is, to
make the application to that particular kind of gentry,
against whom my hedgehog quills, aforesaid, are pointed in
terrorem*
Ladies and gentlemen, reviewers !
You are a set of mischief brewers ;
A gang of scandalous backbiters,
Who feast on us, poor murder'd writers.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 247
And all the nerves and muscles various,
Because, say you, their bones, are carious.
With antimonials make them sweat away
;
Cram each snout full of asafcetida :
Then tell them that their case you fancied
Requir'd some castor oil, so rancid.
Now if you dare to throw the gauntlet,
I tell you honestly I shaVt let
Your impudences, with impunity,
Impose in future on community.
If you dare say that greater wit
Than doctor Caustick ever writ
;
If you dare venture to suggest
His every word is not the best
;
If you dare hint that Caustick's noddle
Is not improv'd from Homer's model
;
If you dare think he has not treble
The inspiration of a Sybil
;
If you don't seem to take delight
In puffing him with all your might
;
If you don't coin for him some proper lies
To circulate through this metropolis,
To give eclat to this edition
Of his Poetical Petition ;
If you don't sing the same tune o'er
Which he himself has sung before,
Ancients and moderns, altogether,
Are but the shadow of a feather,
Compar'd with Caustick, even as
A puff of hydrogenous gas,
He'll hurl ye to old Davy's grotto,
As you'll imagine from his motto.
248 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
And though the drug seem somewhat baleful
Give each a dose of half a pailful
;
Then thank them not to make wry faces,
For mild catharticks suit their cases.
Dash at them nitrate, hight argentum,
And tell them, though it does torment 'em,
That papists say that purgatory
Is but a passport into glory.
Just so, old Satan was quite merry,26
When erst, in Heaven, he rais'd old Harry
;
With jokes and cannon, in tcrrorcm.
He march'd and drove 'em all before him.
26
Just so, old Satan, was quite merry.
So said Milton, Paradise Lost, b. vi. where the hero
of the poem (whom I would propose as a model for
your worships' imitation on all occasions) and his
merry companions " in gamesome mood stand scoffing,"
and " quips cranks," powder, grape shot, puns, blunder-
buss, jokes, and cannon-balls, flash, roar, and bellow in
concert.
But I am sure that every candid critick will be disposed
to acknowledge that neither Homer nor Milton ever des-
cribed a battle, fraught with such sublime images and
similes, as this in which we are so desperately engaged.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 249
Stick your keen penetrating probes
Through right and left hepatick lobes
;
And though you pierce the diaphragm,
You need not care a single damn.
So Indians, when a captive's taken,
And they resolve to fry his bacon,
Their savage torture to refine,
First stick him full of splinter'd pine.
In fine, your worships will contrive
To leave not one vile wretch alive,
Except those dirty sons of
Whom nature meant to dig in ditches.
But all who would not make most topping
Fellows to work in docks at Wapping,
Some way or other, sirs, Pd have ye
Give a quick passport to old Davy.
But if with all this blood and thunder,
The stubborn blockheads won't knock under,
And e'en old women bravely wield
Their jordans like Achilles' shield ;
No more with these our weapons dabble,
But raise a Lord-George-Gordon rabble
;
k k
250 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
Pour on the rogues, that they be undone,
The whole mobocracy of London !
Go, when I bid you, order out
A riotous and ragged rout
From dirty lane and alley dark
From Poplar corner to Hyde Park.
Come on, brave fellows, quick surround 'em
;
With canes and cudgels punch and pound 'em
;
Brick-bats and broom-sticks, all together,
Like coblers hammering sides of leather.
Brave Belcher, Lee, Mendoza, Bourke,
Let loose your fists in this great work !
Here's fine amusement for your paws,
Without the dread of police laws.
Let not one Perkinite be found
Encumbering our British ground
;
But keep on pelting, banging, mauling,
Until old Beelzy's den they're all in.
And I'll be there and blow war's trumpet
:
Or with death's kettle-drum I'll thump it,
Till all's " confusion, worse confounded"
Than e'er in Milton's hell abounded.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 251
Thus, when the Spartans were in trouble,
Tyrteus help'd them through their hobble,
By singing songs, to raise their courage.
All piping hot, as pepper-porridge.
These are the methods of " dead doing,"
By which we'll work the wizard's ruin
;
And when with Satan all such trash is,
We'll rise, like Phenix, on its ashes.
Now, sirs, consent to my petition,
And send these varlets to perdition
;
So for your weal and welfare, post hie,
Will ever pray
—
CHRISTOPHER CAUSTICK.
ADDITIONAL NOTES.
The following Notes were added by the American editor
of the third edition of this work. As they may be useful
in explaining some allusions which might not otherwise
be understood, I have thought proper to retain them.
THE interview with the board of longitude, adverted to
in page 23, note 23, there is reason to believe is substantially-
true. Mr. S—, the unsuccessful applicant, could not}
after the insult he received, by that pitiful offer of remu-
neration, be prevailed upon to reconstruct his instrument.
Our poor countryman Churchman also, whose laborious
life has been spent in the pursuit of discoveries relative to
the longitude, and whose investigations have been amply
successful to merit the liberal protection of an institution,
established with the firofessed views of the present one,
can attest how far a poor but meritorious artist may con-
fide in the liberality of either the board of longitude, or
the gentlemen of the Trinity house.
The salary of the clerkship of the Pells, alluded to iu
the latter part of the note, which Mr. Addington, the pre-
254 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
mier, gave to his own son, a child eleven years old, is
about seven thousand pounds sterling per annum. The
duties of this office are necessarily transacted by a nurse,
who probably is rewarded by our young master with as
liberal wages as many of the curates of England receive.
They, for forty pounds per annum, discharge the duty of
the rector, whose tythes amount to three or four thousand,
which he often most graciously condescends to bestow in
running the race of—not a christian, but, a fox or a stag,
and another species of races at New Market. The cierk-
ship of the Pells, until Mr. Addington discovered other-
wise, was always considered as justly belonging to some
meritorious but worn-out and unrequited servant of the
country.
Page 28, note 28. Dr. Anderson's titles are mentioned
asL. L. D. F. R. S. Scotla7id. In England the point of
this would have been sufficiently evident by the mere em-
phasis on Scotland, which the italicizing of the word
imports ; but as in America it is not generally known that
for twelve pounds two shillings and sixpence sterling, any
creature, can obtain, in the universities of Aberdeen and
St. Andrews, a diploma which will dignify the possessor
with a doctor's degree in divinity, law, or physick, there
would have been a wonder how that wiseacre, Dr. Ander-
son, came by his. These appendages to the names of
a candidate in the trade of authorship, or in either of the
professions, are as necessary, in order to ensure him suc-
cess as well as respect, in Europe, as tails to a bashaw in
Asia ; and in both cases the degree of dignity supported,
and respect claimed, is regulated alike by the number of
each.
A few years since, several Oxonians who had beheld
with an unkind aspect the inundation of these titled can-
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 255
didates for employ in all the professions, without the sa-
crifice of any of the study, time and expense, which are
required of the students in the English universities, pre-
vious to the attainment of these insignia of merit, clubbed,
and raised a sum sufficient to pay for three diplomas.
Three of the long eared species of animals, vulgarly yclept
jackasses, were then procured, and appropriate names
given to each, as the rev. Mr. Bray, Dr. Ear, and 'squire
Sulkey. The cash, accompanied by a recommendation of
these three distinguished characters, attested by the party
in the joke, was transmitted to the then principal of Aber-
deen university, and on the return of the mail, the three
candidates were each raised in law, physick, and divinity,
to a rank with Dr. Anderson.
It may perhaps be useful, however, to add, for the in-
formation of any of our countrymen, who may pant for
the possession of these academick honours, in order to be
on a par with the aforesaid jackasses and Dr. Anderson,
that a recent additional duty in England upon stamps, and
on the postage of letters, will require them to remit as
much as two shillings and some odd pence over the twelve
pounds two shillings and sixpence, a circumstance, cer-
tainly much to be regretted.
For bottled urine has, no doubt,
In publick mails been frank'd about.
Page 30. The satire in these lines, whether it aims
at the very ridiculous deference paid to a certain class of
the Esculapian fraternity, whom I shall term hydrognos-
Ttcxs, but whom the reader may, if he please, call " wa-
ter-doctors," or at the abuse of the privilege of franking,
in England, is perhaps as well founded as any other in the
poem.
256 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
Besides the famous Dr. Mayersbach here alluded to
who resides in London, there is another still more cele-
brated in Northamptonshire, who can scarcely write his
own name, but who has already amassed a large fortune
by practice in this line. Scarcely a post arrives which
does not bring to these " doctors" many bottles for exami-
nation ; and as no case is entered upon without that ne-
cessary preamble, a golden fee, the money collected is
almost incredible.
The abuse of the privilege of franking, so common
among the heads of the departments, and those who, ex
officio, have the right of conveying by post a packet of
almost any size, had like to have met with a serious and
effectual interruption, a few years since, if the following
story related respecting the affair can be depended upon.
An extraordinary Lusus JVatura of the human species
having occurred at Plymouth, the obstetrick gentleman,
into whose hands it fell, resolved to make a present of it to
the museum of an eminent anatomical professor in Lon-
don. No immediate conveyance for it presenting, the com-
missioner of the dock-yard kindly undertook to relieve his'
embarrassment, by franking it up by post. For this pur-
pose the child was made up into a parcel or packet (not a
very small one to be sure) and directed for London. The
weather growing warmer than was anticipated, our cafiut
mortuum arrived at the general post-office in a condition
rather resembling a cafiut vividum ; for it soon produced a
very lively effect on the olfactory nerves of all the clerks of
the post-office. The inspector of franks, suspecting foul
play, deemed it his duty to examine the contents of the
parcel, when there Was presented to the alarmed and astonis-
ed eyes of all around, a being of which they affirmed there
did not exist the likeness either in heaven above or on the
earth beneath. Some fled , from alarm and some from
stench, till the apartment was entirely deserted, except by
old Jowler, a large mastiff that was kept as a guard to the
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 257
office. Attracted by the scent, Jowler soon satisfied him-
self that the commodity, so savory to his smell, was nothing
more nor less than a nice piece of dog's-meat, and of con-
sequence was, bona Jide, his property ; so he quietly took it
up in his mouth, and marched off with it for his breakfast.
An action was afterwards brought against the post-office
for the loss of the article in question ; but as it was called a
child in the declaration, it was successfully pleaded in reply,
that as a child, it could not be considered in any other light
than a stage passenger ; and as the stage coach and not the
letter-bag was established for the accomodation and convey-
ance of passengers, the plaintiff was in fault for not sending
the said passenger with other passengers in the stage. This
defence was irresistible and the plaintiff, to his sore dis-
pleasure, was nonsuited.
Behold ! a rising institution.
Page 127. The institution here alluded to, although its
acts are often dwelt upon in the poem, is in no place suf-
ficiently explained to enable the American reader fully to
comprehend its nature.—A short history of it, therefore,
may not be unacceptable.
Several philanthropick characters in London, chiefly
those who had purchased the tractors, conceiving that the
discovery of Perkinism merited the patronage of an esta-
blishment, like that of the discovery of the cow pox, an-
nounced such an intention in the newspapers, and, at the
same time, called a publick meeting to take the proposed
measure into consideration. Here the undertaking was
unanimously resolved upon, and a subscription opened to
carry the proposed charity into effect. The list was soon
honoured with above a hundred subscribers, several with
a donation of ten, and none, excepting one or two, less than
258 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
one guinea for annual subscription. Lord Rivers was
elected president of the society, and eleven other persons
of distinction, among whom will be found Governour
Franklin, son of Dr. Franklin, compose the list of vice-
presidents.
On the 25th of July last (1803) a large house was
opened in Frith street, Soho-square, for the reception of
patients, and in which the medical attendant, the matron,
and servants constantly reside.
The objects of this establishment are stated by the So-
ciety, in their publication on the subject, as follows
:
" 1 st. To afford relief to the disorders of the afflicted and
industrious poor of the metropolis, if the remedy should
be found capable of that desirable purpose ; and
" 2dly. To submit the long controverted question on the
merits of the metallick tractors to the test of the severest
scrutiny, the ordeal of experiment, by disinterested per-
sons, and thereby enable the publick to form a correct
opinion on the just pretensions of Perkinism."
As one of the articles, among the rules and regula-
tions for the government of the society, directs the com-
mittee to report, after a suitable time, the result of the
undertaking, there was published by them in February
last, a book, entitled, The Transactions of the Perkinean
Society, consisting of a report on the practice with the me'
tallick tractors, at the Instiution in Frith street, and experi-
ments communicated by several correspondents. Published by
order of the committee.
This report is highly creditable to the metallick prac-
tice. It states that ' k
the books of the institution, in which
every case is registered, both favourable and unfavourable,
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 259
will show that nine tenths of the patients have been either
cured or materially relieved." Among other cases ad-
duced in this report, are two of restoration of sight.
The report concludes by expressing " the satisfaction
the committee would feel, should the wisdom of the Bri-
tish parliament see fit to investigate the merits of Perkin-
ism, and, if convinced of its utility, honour it with similar
patronage, to other modern discoveries for the benefit of
mankind."
Although I'm sure 'twould not be cruel
To pop off Perkins in a duel.
Page 155. If rhyme or reason could avail any thing
against this barbarous, brutal, foolish and destructive
practice, no rational mind, it is believed, would censure
the attempt however unpleasant the mode may be to the
parties, or the friends of the parties concerned.
In the present instance, much complaint was raised in
London, by the friends of the two combatants, against
these stanzas, as reflecting on the honourable personages
concerned. If men will be so superlatively foolish, as
well as wicked, however exalted their stations in life,
ought any person, who respects the well being of society,
to be ashamed of an act which assists to make this vice
" A fixed figure for the time of scorn
« To point his slow and moving finger at ?"
The duel in question, has scarcely its parallel for
absurdity in its cause and disaster in its consequence.
A dog belonging to colonel Montgomery's kept mis-
tress quarrelled in the park, with another dog, belong-
ing to captain Macnamara. The captain's dog, proving
too strong for his antagonist, necessarily (I speak as a man
of honour) raised in the martial bosom of the colonel a
260 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
feeling which could not be allayed, consistently with the
preservation of his dignity among gentlemen, without
challenging the owner of the victorious dog to meet him,
the champion of his kept mistress's dog, before the setting
of the sun, otherwise to be proclaimed a coward and no
gentleman. Macnamara, a post captain in the navy, neces-
sarily accepted the challenge. On the first fire, the co-
lonel was killed upon the spot, and the captain also received
a wound, which, while it will maim him during life, will
assist him, in the cool moments of reflection (if such
moments are not inconsistent with a man of honour) to feel
whether it were really manly to take away the life of a
fellow creature, and wise to hazard his own in so despica-
ble a cause.
Colonel Montgomery was brother to the marchioness of
Townsend, and otherwise connected with the first families
in the kingdom. Captain Macnamara, also, belonged to
a family of distinction. As there are in England great
numbers who know of no other laws of honour than such
as they see adopted by the great, whom they ape in
all their movements, such examples have a four-fold in-
fluence. There were, consequently, notwithstanding the
fatal issue of this combat, more duels, and at the same
place (Chalk Farm) within the few weeks following, than
had taken place for many months befbre.
ADDITIONAL NOTES
BY THE AUTHOR OF THE POEM.
No. I.
WE now propose to oblige your worships with some
profound observations respecting the plague of America,
and thus fulfil our promise of page 112. You will there
perceive that we have taken the liberty to advise the citi-
zens of New York to
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 261
scoop each crowded place in
The form of something like a basin.
This our caution, however, is of much the less impor-
tance to that place, on account of the sagacity of its good
citizens in having foreseen the best means of preventing
the " principle of population" from swallowing up the
" means of subsistence." This is very evident from the
following statement made, we believe, by one of the in-
habitants of that place.*
" I never contemplate the felicity of situation and form
which this island enjoys, without renewed confidence in
the benevolent designs of Providence in respect to it. The
conformation of this part of the continent required a great
city at the mouth of the Hudson : —an island is formed for
the purpose, large enough to have built Rome upon, and
scarcely more than two miles wide. At the mouth of any
other great river, this island would have been a dead
marsh, surrounded by a like country. Here it is high,
bold, and hilly. In most other places the sea would rise
and fall without current. Here, the operation of alternate
and conflicting tides cleanses the shores, and tends to pre-
serve the purity of the earth, the air, and the water.
The very marshes themselves indicate the paths where
canals, with rapid currents of tide water, might easily be
made to pass through the island. This must needs be a
commercial city, and yet required such a disposition of
its commerce as to be healthy. To aid this object, we see
its own shores conveniently formed for the access of
shipping for more than twenty-five miles round. No other
place on earth has such an advantage. On the borders
of the ocean, and yet land-locked ; surrounded by fields
and cultivation, and yet enjoying the refreshing water
* See " Letters concerning the general Health, by a Householder,"
published in New York in the autumn of 1805.
262 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
breezes from every point except the coolest ; and having
access to more than 1000 miles of other coasts and shores,
within 1 60 miles from its own wharves : —Such a union
of happy circumstances has never, I believe, been witnes-
sed in any other place. I will not believe that the
avarice and folly of men are destined to destroy it.
" The Collect is now filling up with earth, and is intended
to be sold and built upon.
" It may be difficult, at this time, to say, whether upon
the whole site of the present town, there was enough
surplus earth in the hills, to have raised the low ground
to a convenient height, had the whole been judiciously
disposed. We know, however, that enormous expenses
have been incurred in removing hills which were salutary,
to build wharves which are unnecessary and pernicious.
" A part of the lower end of Pearl street, and of some
streets crossing it, and all of Water, Front, and South
streets, are built where the water once flowed, on ground
made by constructing wharves, which have always been
composed of logs and loose stones, filled up sometimes
with earth, but often with bones, offals, ordure, and every
species of corrupt and putrefying matter. The tract of
ground thus made, reckoning only from the battery to
the beginning of Cherry street, may contain about ninety
acres. Those docks* next the shore were built first, and
built without any expectation that others would be extend-
ed so far beyond them. They were at first raised no
higher than was then deemed necessary to defend them
from being overflowed; and so high, at least, the new
* The word dock, as well as many other terms and expressions,
are used according to their popular sense in this town. It need not
be explained, that I have been more desirous to convince the pub-
lick, than to gratify the lovers of fine writing-.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 263
ones must be raised. There is, therefore, upon this state-
ment, no room for any descent through these grounds
towards the river. But this is not all ; for the weight of
buildings, the operation of water, which is known to pene-
trate through all the crevices of these docks and wharves,
and the aid of time, which moulders all perishable sub-
stances, do, as I believe, gradually sink and press down
all the grounds thus made. The oldest sink first, and
most. Thus there is a perpetual tendency in all these
grounds to assume a form descending inward, that is,
from the river, and towards Pearl street. The lower part
of Pine street afforded, till lately, an example to prove the
justice of this remark." t
Dr. Miller of the same city, in a " Report on the
malignant disease, which prevailed in the city of New
York, in the autumn of 1805," gives us the following
sketch of our prospects relative to this disorder.
" We live in the latitude of pestilence, and
our climate now perhaps is only beginning to
display its tendency to produce this terrible
scourge. The impurities which time and a police,
rather moulded in conformity to the usages of more
northern countries than the exigencies of our own, have
been long accumulating are now annually exposed to the
heats of a burning summer, and send forth exhalations
of the highest virulence !"
It has been observed, that the plague in London has
ceased its ravages since the year 1666. The destruc-
tion of the city by fire, and rebuilding it upon a more en-
t These ideas might be applied with equal propriety to the
operations going on upon die North river, and in front of Cherry
street. Let the reader imagine our town quite surrounded by a
border of three streets made from the water !
264 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
larged plan—the introduction of fresh water—improve-
ments in the construction of sewers—greater cleanliness
of its inhabitants are assigned among the causes which
have combined to produce this effect.
It is also urged that there has ever been an unrestrained
intercourse between that city and the West India Islands,
Egypt, Constantinople, and other parts of the world, in
which pestilence has been supposed to have been bred,
and yet no fever has been imported into London since th<;
period above mentioned.
It is moreover said, that there is a difference between
specifck contagion and infection. That disorders which are
infectious can only be propagated in ^predisposed atmosphere,
under the control of contingent circumstances. But dis-
orders which are contagious like the small pox, measles,
8cc. are not governed by such laws, but may be communi-
cated in the coldest climate and the purest air at all times
and to all persons, nvho have not once undergone their opera'
tion. To such reasoning I always reply, that all this may
be true, but
Folks ought to die just when God pleases ;
and in afree government like ours, it would be the height
of tyranny not to permit the good citizens of New York
and Philadelphia to make as many " asylums for oppressed"
yellow fever as they please.
No. II.
By some late advices from England, I have learned
with no slight degree of concern, that not only the Per-
kinistick Institution has been permitted to proceed in
London without molestation, but that institutions of a
similar nature have been established in other parts of the
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 265
kingdom One in Durham, in a particular manner, un-
der the patronage of the bishop of St. David's, is said to
have reported two hundred cases of cures. Indeed we are
not a little alarmed at this intelligence, and very much
fear that you will suffer the dreadful disease of Perkinism
to become an epidemick in Great Britain.
If this my last effort should fail to inspire you with zeal
proportioned to the magnitude of the evils with which you
are threatened by these trespassers on our rights, I
shall consider your case as desperate, shall no longer
prescribe for such patients, but introduce the underta-
ker and order some /latent coffins to be provided for your
accommodation without further ceremony.
No. III.
We told your worships, page 128, that Perkins was
supported by Aldini, and promised some additional remarks
by way of illustrating our assertion. We now intend to
i
prove not only that we were correct in our statement, but
that light, heat or calorick, electricity, Galvanism, Per-
kinism, animal spirits, the social feelings, especially when
love is concerned, and the stimulus of society, are all inti-
mately connected or different modifications of the same
matter.
We will show that light and heat are the same thing in
essence by the authority of some of our prime philoso-
phers whom it would be heresy to dispute or gainsay.
" Universal space," says Dr. Franklin, " so far as we
know of it, seems filled with a subtil fluid, whose motion,
or vibration, is called light.
" This fluid may possibly be the same with that which
attracted by and entering into other more solid matter,
m m
266 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
dilates the substance, by separating the constituent parti-
cles and so rendering some solids flu
;
d, and maintaining the
fluidity of others ; of which fluid when our bodies are
totally deprived, they are said to be frozen ; when they
have a proper quantity they are in health, and fit to per-
form all their functions ; it is then called natural heat
;
when too much, it is called fever ; and when forced into the
body in too great a quantity from without, it gives pain by
separating and destroying the flesh, and is then called burn-
ing ; and the fluid so entering and acting is called fire."
Transactions of the American Philosophical Society, vol. iii.
p. 5, 6.
Now we will see what Lavoisier, according to Fourcroy,
can tell us on this subject.
" In 1780, he (Lavoisier) published three memoirs,
which threw a new light upon the doctrine for the establish-
ment of which he laboured with extreme ardour for three
years : by first applying to the examination of such fluids
as could be obtained in the aeriform state, at a degree of
heat little greater than the mean temperature of the earth,
he proved that our terrestrial atmosphere is formed of
bodies which at the known temperature and pressure, arc
capable of preserving the aeriform state ; that if the earth
were nearer to the sun, alcohol, ether, and even water
would form a part of the atmosphere ; and that on the con-
trary, i. it were at a greater distance from that luminary,
water and mercury would be solid ; that the three states of
sotTdty, liquidity, and gaseity, depend on the different ftrofior-
tions ofJive combined in bodies ; and that the elastick fluids,
being arranged according to their specifick gravity, it is
evident that the upper regions of the atmosphere must be
occufii»d by inflammable gases, and are therefore the place
of luminous and combustible meteors.". Meholson's Four-
croy, vol.i. p. 57.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 267
Again, vol. i. p. 183-4. "The comparison which the
more modern philosophers, and particularly my illustrious
friend Monge, have established between calorick and light)
so as to consider these two effects as the product of modi-
fications of the same body, is entitled to much more atten-
tion. It is established on a great number of experiments ;
it naturally and simply explains most of the phenomena ;
and it agrees with the sublime economy of nature, which
multiplies effects much more than the bodies which pro-
duce them.
" Fire" he continues " is disengaged, and shows itself
in the form of heat, when it is gently and slowly driven out
of bodies into the composition of which it entered ;
but it
shines in the form of light when it flies out of compounds,
in a very compressed state, by a swift motion.
" According to this ingenious hypothesis, calorick may
become light, and light on the other hand may become
calorick. For this purpose it is only necessary that the
first should assume more rapidity in its motion, and the
second undergo a diminution of velocity."
Our next step in this our wonderful process is to prove,
that light, which is the same as heat, may also be identifi-
ed with electricity.
Here I shall produce the authority of a writer in the
Encyclopedia Bri'annica, who appears to be a very sound
philosopher. Under the title electricity, article 83, you
will find that gunpowder has been fired by the electrick
blast ; from which the writer reasons as follows.
« As it therefore appears, that the electrick fluid, when
it moves through bodies either with great rapidity or W
very great quantity will set them on fire,* seems scarce djs-
putable. that this fluid is the same with the element offire
268 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
This being once admitted, the source from whence the
electrick fluid is derived into the earth and atmosphere
must be exceedingly evident, being no other than the sun
or source of light itself." The writer then proceeds to
show, that an iron wire has been melted by the discharge
of a battery of electricity, and furnishes proofs which must
convince the most incredulous, of the correctness of his
theory.
Thus far we have proceeded triumphantly in making it
abundantly evident that light, heat, and electricity are the
same in substance ; so that if your worships will permeate
this subject with due retention and some small share of
true philosophical perspicacity, you will find that heat and
electricity are the dregs or sediment of light, and by di-
gesting Dr. Black's theory of latent heat, you will find that
the matter of heat, light, and electricity exists in very vast
abundance in all bodies and substances.
We next will prove that Galvanism is a modification of
electricity. Here we will advert to the theory of Galvani
and Aldini, as stated by C. H. Wilkinson, lecturer on Gal-
vanism in Soho square, member of the royal college of
surgeons, &c. See. This gentleman informs us, that " the
animal body is a description of Leyden fi/iial, or magick
battery, in one part of which there is an excess of electri-
city, and in the other a deficiency The conducting body
communicates the Jluid of the part where it is abundant to
the part where it is defective ; and in this passage of the
electricity, the muscular contractions are obtained in the
same way as the discharges are produced by the Leyden
phial or magick batteries. As the conducting bodies in
electricity are the sole agents in the discharge of the
Leyden phial, so the same bodies alone serve likewise to
excite muscular contractions." Wilkinson's Elements of
Galvanism, p. 82.
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 269
We find again, page 84. " Were I called on to give an
opinion, I should state my persuasion that the muscular
contractions (in Galvanism) are produced by the move-
ments of animal electricity, directed by the conducting
bodies of natural electricity."
Here we find, that the " muscular contractions" which
are the consequence of the application of the Galvanick
fluid are an appearance of " animal electricity." And as
the animal body is a kind of " Leyden phial," animal electri-
city and natural electricity must be the same, and would
seem to be an invisible fluid, which may be communicated,
by the means of its proper conductors, from one body to
another.
We next will prove that Perkins's points are the pro-
per conductors of animal electricity. From a specification
which Mr. Perkins published in the Repertory of Arts, it
would seem that zinc is the principal ingredient in the
tractors.
" Zinc," says Fourcroy, " is a conductor of electricity
like all other metals, and nothing particular has hitherto
been discovered in it with respect to this property ; how-
ever, the powerful manner in which it affects the sensibility of
the human body in Galvanick experiments seems to give
it herein a sort of prerogative or preeminence over other
metallick substances. If we place a plate of zinc under
the tongue, and cover the upper surface of this organ
with another metal, and especially a piece of gold or sil-
ver, and then incline the extremity of this last, so as to
approach it to the plate of zinc, at the moment when the
two metals come into contact with each other, the per-
son who performs the experiments feels a very perceptible
pricking sensation, heat, irritation, and a sort of acerb
taste in the tongue, almost always accompanied with a
momentous glare, or a luminous circle, which suddenly
270 MODERN PHILOSOPHER.
appears before his eyes. No metal produces this singular
effect with such force as zinc is observed to do."
Thus it appears, that Perkinism is the conducting, or, as
it were, decanting of the electrick fluid by the means of
those metallick substances which are best adapted to that
purpose, from one ' animal Leyden phial" to another,
and by the due regulation of that grand principle of
animation, giving a proper tone to the animal functions and
curing many complaints to which frail mortals are liable.
This animal electricity is likewise a modification of
what we call animal spirits, and may be termed the
stimulus of society. That this was well known to the
wisest of men, is evide'nt from this adage of Solomon :
" Iron sharpeneth iron ; so a man sharpeneth the coun-
tenance of his friend." The want of a proper commu-
nication among animal Leyden phials is the cause of the
gloom of the solitaire. The wish to partake of the bene-
fits of the stimulus of society makes man a gregarious
animal, and induces the human race to congregate in large
cities, and to be fond of routs, balls, assemblies, in which
the aforesaid human electrick phials are beaming animal
electricity in every direction, and thus a flow of animal
spirits is communicated by a pleasing contagion to all
present.
When we see an animal Leyden phial superabounding
with animal electricity, we say it is a spirited animal.
When said animal happens to be a hero, a tyger, an irri-
tated ram cat, or a black snake intent on his game, visible
flashes of electricity will blaze from the eyes, and com-
municate very sensible shocks to a spectator. Thus the
Gaul, who was commanded to cut off* the head of Ma-
rius, a celebrated Roman general, and a personage full of
the most positive sort of animal electricity, received such
a stroke of lightning from the battery of that hero's
MODERN PHILOSOPHER. 271
iiead, and at the same time was so thunderstruck with the
exclamation of u Tune, homo, audes occidere Caium Ma-
rium ?** that the dagger dropped bloodless from the hands
of the ruthless assassin. Thus Alexander, when hampered
in the chief city of the Oxydracoe, kept his foes at a distance
by the fire that flashed from his eyes in whole torrents of
animal electricity. How often do we see a congressional
spouter, or an itinerant field preacher electrize a large
assembly by repeated discharges of this mysterious fluid.
In all cases of fanaticism it is mistaken for the fire of
devotion, and causes grimaces, contortions, convulsions,
and other strange symptoms, which, however, are easily
accounted for by the theory of the " animal Leyden phial."
But the prettiest experiments ever made with animal
electricity I have seen sometimes exhibited by a female
philosopher to a levee of her admirers. On such occasions,
the lady's eyes seem to be fountains of animal electricity.
This electricity, however, is not -vitreous and resinous but
positive and negative. The former expressed by ajlash of
disdain, and the latter by a glance of approbation. The
different effects which discharges of these different kinds
of electricity exhibit in the subjects of experiment may be
rated among the most wonderful of phenomena. The
former transports a man, Southey-like, to " the atmosphere
of the highest of all possible heavens," the latter sinks him
" down ! down ! to the Domdaniel cave at the roots of the
ocean." But as this is a branch of natural philosophy to
-which, for forty years, past I have not paid the least atten-
tion, I shall not attempt further to instruct your worships
thei-ein, but refer you to the experiments so delectably set
forth in the poems of Little, Johannes Bonefonius, Secun-
dus, and other adepts in that curious science.
FINIS.
