{"name":"The Full Assurance That The Kingdom Of Christ Is At Hand","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1806__southcott___the_full_assurance_that_the_kingdom_of_christ_is_at_hand.pdf","mytitle":"The Full Assurance That The Kingdom Of Christ Is At Hand","mylang":"de"}
■ f , , , N
* *
* . ■■ jTHE >S--—__
F U L L A S S U R A N C E
THAT TBB
, f . K I J T G D O M O F C H R I S T
' IS A T H A N D ,
FROM THE
. SIGNS OF THE TIMES. *
if
■
, January17, 1806.
AS the world at large, professor and prophane>
hath looked upon me as an enthusiast, filling up
the minds of men with strange ideas of my own,
by a visitation, which they judge I have no grounds
for,.td be assured it is from the Lord; I snail now
, come to the purpose, to shew them, from every
V clear evidence, I have not built my faith on a
sandy foundation, having been compassed round
, with a cloud of witnesses of various kinds, to be
assured that my, visitation was from the Lord, by
the truths that have followed the whole.
In this book I shall insert the manner of my mo­
ther’s coming to me in 1792, on the very first day I
began to write my Prophecies, and also*ofthe truth
that followed her words in 1793. Every truth and
every particular of which I copied ,out in 1794:
The manner I was warned by the Spirit, at the time
the fulfilment of my Mother’s words took place in
1793, and of eve^y particular event that took place,
respecting Minifie’s house, as I was foretold by the
Spirit, before they did take place. But all the par­
ticulars I shall not insert in this book, only point out
some of the leading events to shew in what manner
the whole was foretold, that the unbelieving world '
might know, whatever sandy foundation they hav$»
W. Mwcbaut, Printer, 8, Greviile-Slteet, kolbom.
Digitized by C j O O Q i e
built their faith upon, to tolieve my visitation is not
from the Lord, I can assure them .1 have a strong
foundation, from many instances of various kinds,
to be assured it is from the Lord. I have already
>told them how I was directed for myself, from time .
"totime, after my Mother’s death, which took place '
before I wastwentyyears ofage; and what followed
her dying words to me, that I should 'commit my
ways unto the Lord, and hewoulddirectmy goings;
This I have shewed in my former history, in what
manner the Lord directed my goings for myself,
tHl 17^2, when I was yisited for the nationsby the *
Spirit of Prophecy. I shall here insert how my ,
‘Mother conversed with me in 1792, and what fol- ,
lowed in the ensuingyear 1793, which is as follows:. -
After the prophecies of what was coming oft-all
:nations had been revealed to me, in 1792, these-
wordswere said to me: “ Leave thy work and go to
thy Sister’s, and write what I have revealed to thee;
■for what I have put in thy mouth! will do upOn the
1earth : I have begun, and I will make an end:” .
This summons I bbeyed; and the next day bought^
pens, ink, and paper, and began to write, what wa% >
revealed to me, as may be seen ip my First Book
In the evening, as I was going to bed, I felt in
"my heart a great love for a Spirit, which I thought .
' was near me; I said in a low voice to myself, what \
Spirit is near me, which I feel in my heart to love
so ? In a low whisper I was answered—“ Itis thy
Mother, and if thou hast courage to see me, I will
'appear to thee.” I said, I had. She said-—“ This
is a sign to thee,” and gave thl%e hard knocks on
Ttry bed-head, and told me to exert my fortitude. I
rose up in my bed; but hearing something nistle by
my' bed side, all my resolution failed me, and I laid 1
down and covered dver my head, Again, in a soft
whisper, these words were said-—“ My dear child,
thou -art afraid, and I cannot appear to thee.” I
said, my dear Mother, I am not afraid, and rose up
2
Digitized by Google
again; but when I felt-the bed-clothes-u^oved,- my
fears increased again; and she said, “ thou art \
afraid, and I cannot appear; but 1 can converse
with thee invisibly, as well as visibly.”_I then ail^d j
her if she was happy. She answered, “ Yes f
Channon and me are happy together in glory; antP*
rejoice to see Mrs. Minifie, Mrs. Woolland, and_.
you, so united together.” I was surprised to hear '
her mention Mrs. Woolland’s name, as she was .
'married after Mr. and Mrs. Channon and my Mor
ther were dead. I asked her, by what Spirit all these t.
things had come to me ? She answered, “ From i
the Lord,” and said,.“ my .soul rejoices to .see thee
so willingly obey. his. commands; for'happy wilt'
thpu be. iuglory.” She said, “ Once the Lord spoke. •
to-thee, when. H e first revealed.jiis.will, and
after -tl^t sent bis angels to thee. . This, day, as
thou hastfobeyed his <poiqmand, the Lord permitted f
me to come io ’thee«’’,i t asked* if,,these things,
that were reveajed to were coming,spun ? She .
said—“ The time knpw$ no man,' .nor the"angels in ,^
heaven: But tfa Lordlsrenw vedjrom T hrqif e.” ’
She said something concerning Mr. Wesley, and
.his preachers; but do not remember what she ,
said, whether it was, that I must go tp them; dr
Mr. Wesley would appear to them, before the time;
I know not which.. I asked her many questions .
about a future state. She answered, that her:,
thoughts were light, as-she used to say in her /,
life ; and that chapter in the Revelation would
now be fulfilled, wherein I should find Gog and /
Magog. I asked if my dear brother John .was
saved ? She answered, “ Yes: but thou wilt be r
much happier in glory than he,” Something she
said concerningMrs. Channon and Mrs. Woolland, '
and told me to go to Mrs. Woolland’sjtbe next day.
I asked her, ifparents knew afterthey weredead how
the children lived in the body ? She said, “ Yes,.,,
they do.” I said then, Doth Mrs. Channon knpw .
3
Digitized by G o o g l e
What Mrs. Minifie suffers with her husband ? She
said, “ Yes; but the Lord will break the yoke from
off her neck; and a final separation will take place '
between them; and he would die: and she will
find there is a happier time coming for her.” Many f
more things she told me, which I have since found
true. I went to Mrs. W——’s the next day, and s
told her what mymother had said; and what was re­
vealed to me concerning theNations. Mrs. W. said,
..“ Thenyour mother’s prophecies are comlngtopass,
that she made on the tour and twenty letters r and
she was of my opinion, that something was coming
on the nation. The week following I went to my ' j
Sister’s to continue my writing, as I was ordered.
I told her what my mother had said concerning her
servant, which proved true; and that she should
turn him away, which she was obliged to do from
his conduct, in a few months after. But she said, %
. she could not believewhatI had been told concern­
ing Mrs. M. as spirits did not know what the Lord
designed to do. I said, if the Lord sent my Mother
tome, tostrengthen my faith, the Lord knew;what *
questions I should ask, and had revealed to her what
to answer; so we must leave aH to time. After I
had written all that wasrevealedto me in 1792,1 left
it with my Sister, and came to Exeter in February
\ 1793. The war broke out as I was foretold; and x
the same year the truth of my Mother’s words were
verified, concerning Mrs. Minifie, in a very strange
and singular manner. Mr. M------was a capital
tradesman in Exeter, and inflourishing business; but
after the war broke out, he took it in his head to
leave Exeter, and to go to America; but did not tell .
his mind to any one; but 1 was warned in a dream
of what was cpming on Mrs. Minifie; and that she
had troubles to go through. This alarmed me on
her account; for when I awaked with my dream, I
was answered bythe Spirit, it was true that theirse-
parationwould takeplace but a happiertimewould
4
Digitized by Google
5 •
come for her, after the stoTm was overblowreof the
troubles she had to go through. This happened on
a Sundaymorningin October 1793; and it wounded
my heart on her account. I told it to Mrs. Bird and
her two daughters, in the morning, that I was sure
i troubleswere comingonMrs. Minifie, which I could
not remove from my mind. In the forenoon, while
I was in church, with all the fortitude I could exert,
as Mrs. M— sfamily lay near my heart, I therefore
thought to go out of church as soon as the sermon
was over, my spirits by no means being composed
to go to the Sacrament; butI was answered—“ Thou
t shalt not turn thy foot from the sanctuary; theLord ,
is not offended with thee for thy feeling for thy
frignd.” This made me stay. When I came to the
altar the words were repeated to me again—“What
•
: I had dreamt of Minifiewas true; and the end of all
things was at hand.” In theafternoon I went to see
Mrs. Minifie and found her heart was full of sorrow.
I tried to comfort her; butto no purpose; and I had
no knowledge of what Mr. Minifiewas going to do.*
>
, AH the knowledge I had was from my dream, and
' the words that were told me. In the eveningI went
to Mrs. Woolland’s, her Sister, and told her my
dream, and the words that were said to me; and we
conversed on my Mother’s words the year before.
But here I shall leave particulars. Soon after that
Mr. Minifie told me, he proposed going to London
on some business, and asked me to come and stay
with Mrs. Minifie the while. I said I would. I
went the evening before he went away. He hiade
‘-many observations on the times; and spoke of the
judgments that were coming on the earth; and as­
signed his reasons, why the Lord would visit them :
' in his fierce anger. He began from the prophets to
the apostlesand told how all men come snortof their
duty. He said that he was warned by day and by
night of approaching dangers; and if he had the
brings of an eagle he would fiy from them. At this
Digitized by Google
I wasastonished; to hear a man have so muchknow­
ledge with so little grace ; but I was answered—I
should remember the man that had the one talent^
and digged in the earth and hid his Lord’smoney.—
The Friday after he was gone, a man came into the
house with a letter he had received from Mr. Mini­
fied brother; and said they were gone to America.
I was astonished at his brother’s letter; and 1 carried
it up toMrs. Minifie, who was then illinherbed; and
this added to her sorrows, as he had not empowered
any one to manage his affairs. She began to tear
the worst, as no letter was come from Mr. Minitie
himself. This threw the whole houseinto confusion.
The following day. Mr. Rowe came in with one of
the creditors; and the report was that Mr. Minifie
had made a bill of sale to cheat his creditors, and
that the bailiffs would be there on the Monday. It
is fruitless to attempt penning the sorrows of Mrs.
Minifie’s heart on this strange conduct of his, and
the confusion they were in, knowing not what step
to take, havingreceived no letter from her husband.
I shared her sorrows, and thought I could spend
my night in prayer for her ; at last sleep closed my
eyes, and I dreamt that a voice said to me—“ Hurt
not the man; he hath done nothing to cheat his
creditors ; wait but a little and the mystery will be
discovered; there are writings coming from him.”
With this dream I awaked, and was answered, “ The
writings are coming from Minifie to clear up the
mystery; for he had notdone as they had reported.”
This was a great comfort to me, as I believed the
words, and went in the morning to Mrs. Minifie
and told her of it. She said she believed it true;
for she always found him an honest man to every
body, however unkind his conduct had been to.
her. While we were at breakfast Mr. T. Woolland
and Mr. Rowe came into the hpuse, ,an4 said they,
must search it, to see if he had empowered, any
one to manage his affairs; if he hatf not,, the
6
Digitized by ^ o o Q l e
liffs would be there the following day. They went
up stairs to search for the writings, and Mrs. Mini-
fie and I went with them. I told them they would
find none in the house; but they might laugh at
dreams ; yet I was assured from them that the wri­
tings were coming; but did not tell them my fur­
ther reasons. Mr. Rowe said, if they are coming,
he wished they were come; but did not rely on
my words, but went into another room to make
a further search ; and immediately a knock, came
at the door; and the servant brought up a parcel
that came from Mr. Minifie—As soon as they broke
the seals they found the truth of my words; he had
sent back letters to empower Mr. Rowe and Mr.
Harris to settle his affairs, and pay his creditors;
and he sent back letters to his creditors, of what he
had done. He said, if there was not money enough
left to pay them, he would remit it from America; he
told tnem what money he had taken with him,
which he had insured in London, in case the ship
was oast away. He said the ship had sailed for
America before that parcel was sent back, as he
left it to go by the coach after he was gone. •This
sudden surprise ofjoy had more effect on Mrs. Mi­
nifie than her sorrows; and made her quite ill. I
then was ordered to open my Bible: I opened to
the 5th chap, of St. Matthew; it was the 25th
'verse I cast my eye on—“ Agree with thy adver­
sary quickly, while thou art in the way with him,
lest at any time the adversary deliver thee to the
judge, and the judge deliver thee to the officer,
and thou be cast into prison. Verily I say unto
thee, thou shalt by no means come out thence till
thou hast paid the utmost farthing.”
To these words I was answered—“ So it would
go with Minifie; for he would not go to America
the way he was going; and I should go and tell
Mrs. Tailor of i t ; and not be afraid to affirm the
truth; for what I put in thy mouth I will do upon
the earth; and they shall find it is from the Lord.”
V %
Digitized by L i o o g l e
The next day I went and told Mrs. Taylor, that
.Minifie would not go to America the way he Was
going. She asked me, how that could be, as he
was on the seas ? I said I did not know the way it
would happen, or whether the ship would be driven
back; but I was assured he would not go as he in- *
tended. In a few days after, the news was brought
to Exeter, that Miuifie wa# taken on the seas and
cast into prison. And I was answered—“ He found­
ed it upon the seas, and prepared it upon the deep,
to make good the words that I spoke to thee before:
and in so strange and sudden a manner shall all
happen: for when Minifie thought himself freest
from danger he was nearest to it; and so shall it
happen to the Nations; for not a word I have put
in thy mouth shall fall to the ground: he that fle-
eth from danger shall be as him that goeth out of
his house and leaped his hand on the wall and a
serpent bit him.” Minifie being taken was soon
confirmed by one of the assignees, whom I heard
say myself, that he offered to let Minifie go to
America, as he was going, if he would give up
three hundred pounds of the money he said he <
.
had taken with him; but he reused, and was cast
into prison, and the statute of bankruptcy taken
out against him, and he was kept there until he
and his friends had paid the whole of the sum he
had with him.—Thus, to my astonishment were
my words fulfilled, though the creditors themselves
said, that there woold be fifteen hundred pounds
left after satisfying all of them. So every truth
followed there, and many more particular things
that came remarkably true, which I shall omit
publishing for the present; but every man’s con­
duct was foretold to me, perfectly as they acted.
And now I shall come to another remark, how I
was warned in a dream of a fire that broke out by
accident in Minifie's shop at midnight; and how
our lives were preserved by the warning. I was
8
Digitized by Google
awaked at midnight with a dream, that the house
was on fire. At first, I thought it was hut a dream;
and being very heavy with sleep, thought I,would
go to sleep again, and then I should see; but itm
mediately I thought to myself, seeingwould be tod
late, if it was real; therefore I would go down and
see if the maids had left their candle burning by
their bed-side, and it had set the curtain on. fire:
but, to my astonishment, as soon as I had opened
the doqr, I smelt the smoke of candles, quite suf­
focating c l called up to Mr.. Pike, and told him
the house was bn fire. : He said I was dreaming;
there was no such thing; as he sawvall safe, when
we wentto bed at ten o’clock. I told him to open
his door and he would smell the. smoke. He then
arose and came down; and' when he came to the
third pair of stairs, he cried out in such a manner
as though he feared being ciroaked with the. smoke
and could not pftiss through it; as by an accident
of the wick yarns taking; fire, which had ascended
• to the candles, they laid burning together in great
quantities, and the beam adjoining to the stair-case
had taken fire'; and it was the opinion.ofmany that,
had it continued a’quarter of an hour.longer,*thd
stairs would have been ou fire, and we could not
have come down without being burnt to death, if
we had waked before, we had been burnt in our
beds.* Thus were wepreserved by thewarninggiven
me in my dream,to which I wasansweredafterwards.
“ Hadst thou went to sleep after thou hacbt the
warning, -thouwouldest have been burnt ib thy bed,
and all in the house: and so I tell thee of all men;
if thou keepesl silence, and not give the warniug;
the fire of the;I^ord’s anger will be.kindied to con­
sume them, if they do not amend their lives; there­
fore I command thee to give the warning, that J
may be clear of the blood of all men.” *
* See more particulars in the Book beginning with the Parable of
the Flock of Sheep, page 34.
9
’
■ 9
fr
Digitized by L i o o g i e
J
Other particulars I shall omit for the preset#,
and come to the purpose of the end. The house was
advertised to be let; and I went to Mrs. Minifie,
to know whether she had a mind to keep on the
business, as it would be an amusement for her to be
employed in her shop; therefore I went to her when
it was advertised, to know her mind. She thought
it would not be let in a hurry; and said she would
think of it. The night before it was let, I dreamed
that there were two pumps; the one was very high,
the other was lower. I thought in my dream that
IdtMrve to bring the water to the higher pump; but
it was very hard, nod but little water came from it.
All on a suddqn I saw the springs broken, and the
water went down to the lower pump, and gushed
out in such a manner that die streets ran over with
water. I .then thought the house would be let';
Ibid my dream to Mr. Pike, and.the family, in the
morning. In the evening I went to Mrs. M.’and
told her.my dream, that I thought there was no
time for trifling now; for it would soon be let.
Mrs. Woolland said, it was now too late, by my
dream; for it was gone in another channel It
proved true.; before the next morning it was let
to another man. To this I was answered—
“ Just so shall it happen to the nation: The de­
termined decrees of the lord shall be made public;
and those tbat.do not believe tjhat it will be soon, if
it comes at all, shall bo shut out for ever; for in a
might men do not expect, shall the coming of the
Son of Man be. The two pumps are the two sorts
of people; the one under tlie.true light of the Gos­
pel, which is the higher pump, which thou hast
-strove so much to convince, and by all thy striving
but little water, so will it happen.amongst the
enlightened people of the nation; for many will be
mockers, many despisers, and those that do believe
will be many of them like Minifie, not think it will
he soonnor suddenly, while others will expect that
10
«
Digitized by
11’ .
it is coining soon and be disappointed, and begin
to eat and drink with the drunkards, and say with­
in themselves, Where is the promise of his coming?
while some, as thou didst dream thou got some
water to the higher pump, so will some be believers,
and humbly wait for the coming of their Lord, and
be ready to enter in with the Bridegroom, when he
comes to unite all nations together. Those of the
lower pump, that the springs were broken and the
water gushed out in an instant, are the people who
are in ignorance and errors, that God will wink at,
and on a sudden the fountains of living water
shall flow upon; for the end of all things is at
hand. Now remember thy Saviour’s words— If
the days are not shortened no flesh shall be saved;
but for the elect’s sake they shall. Iniquity doth
now abound: the love of many doth now Wax
cold; and was it to continue so, who would be
saved ? and if men bite and devour one another
they will be consumed one of another.”
Here I have given some of the heads concerning
Mr. Minifie’s house; and one particular more I shall
mention, concerning the methodists: At that time
that it was said to me, when the affairs of Minifie
were over I should go again to the meeting, and
they would cause me more sorrow than all I should
suffer on account of Mrs. M. I was ordered to
open my Bible, to shew me how it would go with
me, when I went to them. I Opened to the three
first chapters in Ezekiel; and was ordered to mark
the three; the third in particular. The seventh
verse struck deep upon me, that so I should find
them—That the house of Israel will not hearken
unto thee; for they will not hearken unto me ;
and likewise the fifth verse of the second chapter.
Now the truth of these chapters, and of the words
spoken to me, I found perfectly true, after I went
among .the methodists again. There is not a peo­
ple in the world who hath caused tee so much sor­
Digitized by
row of heart as the methodists; because they made
so great a profession of religion, their unbelief was
a stumbling-block to me; and yet, the caution
kept me from falling ; as it is said, .Be not thou
rebellious, like that rebellious house. This made
me fear on the one hand to disobey, while I was
wounded by their unbelief on the other. So I
saw the truth in every line, what, was said to me
in MinifieY house ; and yet for a lopg time I was
stumbled concerning Minifie, as I expected, from
my mother’s words to hear of his death; but I
was answered—“ How weak is thy judgment, to
think the final separation and his death would be
together. Then it would have been told thee o f
hit death Only ; but now mark the final separa­
tion took place when he landed in another .coun­
try, and gave up his wife in heart and thought.
This is the first truth; and the yoke is broke off
from her neck, and the fipal separation hath.taken
place.”
Now to make it clear to the readers, they,must
observe that Minifie was freed at the end of the
year 1793, after the money was paid by his .friends,
the sum that he had taken with him ; and.hewent
to America in another ship. Since that time.he
never wrote a line to his wife; so the final separa­
tion took place ; but whether he is now living I
know not,' as I have theard. nothing of him foe
these ten years : and dead tfaf her he certainly, is.
In this I have only given the beads, to prove the
truth of my Mother’s words, and what :was again
repeated to me by the Spirit, that they would be
fulfilled!; but there are other remarkable truths in
the history, that were fulfilled, which. I have not
inserted here. All these particulars I have pan­
dered in my heart, how all things were spoken,
and how they were all fulfilled. *
Now I shall appeal to the serious readers, when
they weigh the whole together—the manner of my
life from my youth up—the singular things that
is
Digitized by v ^ o o Q i e
happened in !792—beingforetoldwhat wasid th£
hearts and thpughts of men concerning me—the
truth that followed my Mother’s words in; 1793* .
■which she told me in 1792,and the visitation,of the ,
Spiritat that time telling me every event that Would
take place in that house—and. die continuation of
the war, as I was then foretold, in answer to one
of Mr*Wesley’s preacher’s, who; said it would be
over before Christmas; but I was answered, “ He
erred in judgment and stumbled in visibhs, for the
war would continue; and the visitation of the Lord
wopld go from nation to nation,—seeing every
truth to follow; after that being ordered to put id
die hands of ministers what would follow of the
harvestsand wars, asI hav^ealready published to die
world: now, when men take,a serious survey ofthe
Whole and weigh all 'these things together, I ask,
where is the man whOycan answer roe, to prove my
visitation is not frdm.jthc:Lord ? Let them point
me Out the prophet through the Bible, that they
can prove his words came more clear and true,
than mine have thus far. This I know is impossi­
ble for man to do; then may I not Withconfidence
rely on the words of the Spirit; that by one Spi­
rit came the whole ; and that is from tne l i v i n g
G o d , who is the God of truth; and from whom
comes every good and perfect gift ? Now for men
to deny my visitation as being from the Lord, ap-
E
ears to me like th$T)eists who deny'the Bible’s
eing from the Lord ; because in the perfect man­
ner that the Lord visited the prophets of old, from
types and shadows, from dreams and visions, in
the same manner have I been visited; and as our
Saviour said in the Gospel—by sending the Spirit
of Truth to lead us into all truths ; so hath the
Spirit of the Lord visited me, in every way and
manner that is written in the Scriptures of Truth.
But I know, if they believe not Moses and the pro-
phetsKthey will not believe though one were risen
from the dead; and so the world may be by my
13
Digitized by b o o g i e
Mother, who came, as it were, from the dead,
though the remarkable truths of herwords follow­
ed in the ensuing year; and I told of them before
they took place. But the unbelieving world may
say they came true by chance; then I answer, if
chance brought all the past, time and chance may
hasten on to fulfil all the rest, till the following
words are verified, which were given to me in
May, 1794, in answer to my prayers for the peo­
ple, after I had .heard the threatenings pronounced
agtinst them; and which are in the following
lines taken out pf the Sealed Writings, written in
May, 1794.
After I had been in prayer, that the Lord would
take pity on the wretched state of men, as Satan
was so strong an adversary against them, that his
temptations were too strong for man, that was so
tainted by the Fall; and the powers of darkness
were so gr€at to work in man, that it was only
the Heavenly Physician who could heal the wound
that sin had snttde; I was answered by the Spirit—■
14
((All this I knofo as well as thee—
But mildness will not do;
Therefore my Spirit is provok’d,
And I my work shallshe\fr,
With tumults, and the dreadfid war,
And femme next shall come;
The sword of vengeance from above
Shall go through every land. , .
For I nave whet my glittering sword*
And batheddeep ’twill b e:
For PU not sheath it up again,
’Till sinners dp comply
To own l art the living Lord,
And fear my holy N ame ;
Then shall rty Spirit be impress’d
On every soiil of man.
But first duall my devouring sword *
And famine n&ke the way;
For conquering 1 will conquer now
Alt those*that don’t comply.
No longer shaftmy patience bear,
To hear my N ame blasphem'd;
No longer I’ffthe sinn&s spare,
That do not ffeslrmy N ame, *
Digitized by Google
• 15
For near upon two thousand years
Pve bore with sinful men,
Since on the Cross of Calvary .
My Blood for them was slain. '
' But, OhJ how few regard my Love !
How few regard my Pain f
S How few think on my bloody sweat,
When I for man was slain! *
. How few think on the Cross I hung!
• How few regard my N ame !
How few despise the cursed Sins
' That caused all my shame!—
But now my sha?ne is past and gone,
And the victorious h&ur
Is come, that on the Sons of Men
I shall fulfil my Power !
■ But first will I a warning give,
And those that do believe,
And trusting in my mercies great,
They mercy shall receive.
But those that do despise my W ord,
Of warning them before,
• Shall feel the terrors of my Rod, .
And feel my Mighty Power.
The time appointed is at hand,
That I shall visit all,
. With sword, with famine, and the plague,
Who on my N ame don't call..
Therefore let none be mockers now,
Nor think this will not b e;
For I that am in heaven so high
J Have all these things decreed; .
Pve sent my angels unto thee, *
To warn all men before,
# That of the blood of every soul
That I may now be clear.
And this shall be a Sign to thee—-
• My Servants soon shall come;
For 1 will so incline their hearts,
That my Will may be done.
But, Oh!fa r short dost thou now come,
To love my creatures more
Than I that suffer’d on the Cross, _
And so long with them bore !
■ I*m nigh to save all that believe,
And now obey my call;
' The Blood that I yve already shed
Is enough to save you alt. -
All that believe, and do obey,
And fear my holy N ame,
Shall find my mercies still as gpeat; v
For I am C od the same,
jVs when I Nineveh did spare,
" ‘ When they any Word believ’d,
Digitized by Google
And every soul in humble dust
Before the Lord did grieve.—
But let not Nineveh arise
Injudgment to this land:
But let them know Pm not inje st;
Myjudgments are at hand.
So now be strong, and stand like men#
With salt be season’d well,
And pray for power to stand against
The fiery aarts of Hell.,,
The following Communication was given to me
in 1795* in answer to men’s saying I was fitter for
a mad-house than to give such writings to puzzle
the heads of people, that no man could under­
stand ; to which I was answered—
“ Now as a mad-woraan they say of thee,
And in a mad-house fitter for to be,
Than to confuse the,heads of simple men
With such strange writings they cannot explain;
Because they think themselves to be so wise,
That all my Wisdom they do sure despise;
And like the fox they simply now do cry, -
The grapes areftour, for now they hang too high.
Out of their reach then certainly they be :
Bring me the man brings round such mystery,
As all together 1 have now seaPd up;
I say, to man my Wisdom it shall stoop;
And open now the flood-gates of the sky,
And call a mighty deluge from art high ?
I’ll then confess they havean arm like me,
And that their right-hand can their succour be,
And gain the victory they purpos’d in War,
. ' And teed the bowels of the hungry poor,
And no complaining in your streets- be found;
Then take my prophet and in prison bifid;
If the oppressed yon can all set free;
And tis&t fiojudgments that-shall come from me.
As they deny my judgments in the land;
Then as a God I must condemn all men.
But as a God to reason I’ll begin: '
All souls are mine; my children^do want bread;
I ask them, why my family Isjiot fed f
, And with I-snail now begin:
Servants and children daily do complain;
They starve with,hunger in a plenteous land ;~
I ask the reason, from the stewards’ hand i
And will tbdy answer— “ There is a plenty here ;
■
“ None of thy judgments-we^hsave room todear?”
Then now that plenty l do bid them shew; -
Make all things*easy* I demand, .below;
Then to the prison shall my prophet go;
16
Digitized by Google
f •” Or else I bid them say my Prophet’s true.
One way or other 1 do bid them do ; ’ ‘
Confess my judgments and my Prophets true,
. Or make things easy, I do public cry ; . ^
And prove by it, my Prophets they did lie, '
As peace and plenty in the land abound, ■
When they from heaven had heard a different souod|
And if they own the sliadow is begun, t
I say, the substance it is hastening on,” ■
• . • f i
Now I shall come to my observations, from these
two Communications. Let them mark what ha$ fol­
lowed since 1794. As my writings" go to all na­
tions we must look to all nations; and where these
awful and fatal judgments have been, we have.-to
apprehend there are but few that fear the Lord
amongst them. But, in this 1 am only drawing
my own opinion, where I see the severest judg­
ments that have hastened on, since these Commu­
nications were given to me; but as it is now said,
that the end is not yet; we cannot say what may
fall at home in this enlightened land, where the
fear of the Lord is in many. But one thing I shall
'-observe—how it was said, the Lord would hrfrt
give a-warning, before these; dreadful judgments
should come on. Another observation {shall make,
from the sign that was set to me—that the Lord
would incline the hearts of his servants to come to
me, to know the truth, which was said to be soon;
but mark, the fulfilment of the Words did not take
•place till 1801, that the warning was gone out in
the -world; and then the Lord inclined his servants
to come from different parts of this kingdomtr*
Yorkshire, Worcestershire, Lancashire, London,
and other parts, to come to me in Devonshire, .to
:search out the truth. So the sign was perfectly ful-
:filled in 1801; though the shadow began in 1796, by
•the Rev. Mr. Pomeroy’s coming as the forerunnerdf
'.the whole; and yet I thought the shadow to be the
.substance, after Mr.' Manley came to make inquiry
.ofthe truth; but, in all my writings, I have observ­
ed the shadows come beforethe substance. And now
*1 shall come to a further observation on the Coiq-
c
17
Digitized by b o o g i e
munication given in 1795, where it is said, If the
shadow was begun the substance was hastening on.
Now I must call to men’s remembrance the dearth
and scarcity in 1795, that corn was..then 15 shil­
lings per bushel; but in 1799, and the 1800, till
the harvest of 1801, com was twenty-one and
twenty-five shillings per bushel, in those twoyears;
So the truth followed greater in our land ; but let
them consider what hath been abroad. So if men
weigh the whole together, they must confess the
prophecies true; and how much further they will
be verified,.thousands >
have to fear. Oh ! that
England would take tire warning, and deeply. dis+
cem the words, how they were spoken, and how
they have been going on to be fulfilled.. .;
- I shall now insert,another Communication that
was given to me from; types;and shadows, or. par*
*bles:. b u ta s ’I know the world mock parables;
types, and shadows, I shall call their attention to
the prophets. Isaiah was ordered to go three
:years barefooted, to be set a$ a type to the peo­
ple ; and mark the types of Jeremiah, from what
things'the Lord shewed him what he would do to
-the people ; and let them weigh deeply the fourth
•and fifth chapters of Ezekiel, and see from what
types and shadows the Lord spoke there; and the
Jirst chapter of Hosea. If we mark the prophets
■through, we shall see how ail was explained- to
•them from types and shadows; and if we go to
Hflte Gospel, we'shall see our Saviour spoke from ,
parables: when he began to liken the Kingdom
' ‘Of Heaven, he likened the whole from parables. So
-If men weighed the Scriptures through, they would
not marvle at things being spoke in parables; and
know, the parables must have a resemblance of the
^things they are likened to. There is nothing in my
^writings more clear to be understood than what is
■explained from parables, types and shadows, which
I was ordered to pen. In 1795, I was ordered to
-pen a simple thing which happened in 1782, of
18
Digitized by G o o g l e
two coachmen, who went out ofExeter together.
I was in the fore coach ; they drove very fast one
upon the other; Mr. Cawley, a friend of.mine,
was in the coach with me; I desired he wotk&gpeak
^ to the drivers, who kept drinking at hsn,
I and then drove on like madmen. I said theywould! '
surely overturn the coach before they got to Hon- J
,iton. Mr. Cawley often reproved them. There
was another gentleman in the coach,, who said,
there was no use in reproving them, and seemed to
£ *fear nothing of their mad driving. When we came
,in sight of Honiton, the hinder coach <;ame by
the side of the fore one, and the horses ran up
against the hedge ; the coachman being drunk fell
off the coach-box, and the coach overturned, as
• I said. The gentleman who feared nothing broke
his arm ; but Mr. Cawley and I met with no ac­
cident ; and only laughed at our misfortune This
was explained to me as follows:
'' ' ' . .v
u This is a type of what will shortly be.
All lands in madness every one will see;
l . ,And every nation will in madness mourn ;
But to thy fable thou again must turn :
A nigher way than mine they all do take*
Therefore their ships in pieces they will break, v
Like the mad coachman that so furious drove-— -
£To shew their madness shews their want of love;)
Till off the coach-box he did surely fall;
f And then, thou knowest, overturn’d the coach and all.
All this by madness thou know’# it was done 5
And now unto the purpose thou art come.
Just so much madness thou wilt see in man; ' ,
. One on the other they will surely drive;
T o gain their ends all madly will contrive,'
v Till on the rocks some ships they’ll surely spill;
And others madly break both axle and wheel;
For as thou sayest, in sunder broke the pole,
And so in fhry will o’erturn the whole;
All this, I say, will be the cause wjth man.
Thou bidd’st them stop, but all thou know’st was vain;
Thou surely told’st them that would be their end*
. And told it often to thy very friend.
He heard thy words, and did the men reprove:
By his obedience shewed his heart was love;
Therefore thou knowest, when dangers did come near*
Thou didst but laugh; th? other did not f^ar;
19
\
Digitized by Google
* B^eauie no harm he did at all receive*
So those that do obey shall surely live;
And in all dangers they have nought to fear;
For ir their journeys 1 will sure be there.
I said from types and shadows I’d begin ;
From types and shadows I will make an end.
Thou sayest it was one single year before
That was concluded the New. England’s war;
Then now unto Old England thou art come;
For there the madness aid at first begin:
One on the other all have madly drove;
Then where’s the heart that shewed its perfect love?
In America thou know’st the war began;
" Brethren against their brethren in this land ; U
For as one nation and one people sure
Old England and the New began the war;
Yet still their fighting surely was in vain;
' No victory in it they did there obtain. ;
^ Soon after that the French began the same;
Brethren against their brethren there did rise:
Ye see the weather; but see not these days;
t. Then Scribes and Pharisees you sure must be,
. . To see the weather, but these days can’t see.
Or if yctti see them, will not them discern,
L. . 1 To guard from danger, and the people warn.
But now I hear the language of thy heart:
How can they warn, if I do not impart ? •
Then now the mystery I’ll to thee reveal,
And nothing .from thee will I e’er conceal:
Unto what purpose, I have said before,
Unto this people should I my mind reveal ?
For if the truth I unto them did tell,
They’d think I lied, as thou said’st of thyself,
If earthly things thou tell, they’ll not believe;
In heavenly things they’d think I do deceive.—
Remember what thou’st written heretofore,
\ And then, I say, I need not tell thee more:
In heavenly things they never did believe;
In earthly things they thought thou didst deceive/*.
From these Communications, I must beg the
readers to observe what hath followed since they
were givens . I have already mentioned, in a for­
mer book, what happened in Germany ; but now
I shall draw their attention to some of the events
that happened in Spain in 1804; and other events
which took place in many other parts that *year;
ns my writings go to. the ends ot the earth; and
the neighbouring nations around are particularly
noticed in my writings in the beginning^; but
there are only a’fewwho observe how my prophe-
20
Digitized by Google
' ' 2L
cies stand; therefore! they only take notice of
what happens in our own land ; but to,mark the
progress and the truth of the words, they must
look abroad as well as at home, and observe, from
the Communications, how the nations are joined
together by the Prophecies. So here I shall in-,
sert some of the events that happened abroad and
- at home, as they appeared in the news-papers.
January, 1804. The storm of Tuesday was very
extensive; and at Broontswell camp was attended
with a singular phenomenon.—About seven in the
evening an explosion took place in the air, like a
piece of ordnance, Which was followed by a his-.
- sing noise, like that of a rocket- Most of the
centinels on duty were subject to blindness for a-
short period. They state that the heavens apr
peared for a few seconds in a perfect flame.
Plymouth, Jdfiyary 22. The effects of the late
tempest ha^e been,dreadfuh—The gale might b$
termed a-whirlwind, as it blew several luggers and.
and pipes from the Victualling. Office quay into
Catwater, and two pipes were actually blown into
the air, fike balloons, and hoisted oyer the peer
into Sutton Pool. Came in<a*tender with men, for
the fleet from the Westward, which was in the gale,
of Thursday night, the master of which declared*
that the roar of the elements was somolent at one
period, that it seemed as if the horizon had been
the mouth of a cannon .fired off, the noise nearly
stufniihg him and"Bis people.
Falmouth, January 20.—Last evening it came
oft to blow strong, and continued to increase, till
wine o’clock, when it blew a most tremendous hur­
ricane, and continued tiH twelve o’clock ; during
which signal guns of distress were heard, at which
time no boat could live on the water.
Another letter ofthe same nature, states that this
hurricane was preceded by an uncommon agitation
of the sea, which seemed to indicate an extraordi*
nary concussion of nature. The vvateyrin.-Palinp.Cti)
Digitized by
. harbour about three hours before, rose 'suddenly
•to the height of seven or eight feet perpendicu­
lar, recoiled, and rose again three successive
times in the course of a few minutes; in the same
manner it is remembered to have done at the time <
■
of the earthquake that destroyed old Lisbon.
January 24. The port letters of yesterday are
filled with melancholy recitals of the damage done
by the violent storm of Thursday and Friday last.
It appears that the gales exceeded in violence, not
only those at the close of the last month, but all
that have been known in the memory of man. At
Falmouth and Plymouth, on Thursday night, the
firing of guns as signals of distress were heard:
from hour to hour.—Our Channel Fleet, we are
sorry to state, has suffered much.
EarthquakeinScotland, inMarch. Severalshocks,
of an earthquake have been felt atComrie,inPerth-*
•hire during the present month.. On Sunday the
4th, there was a slight shock, with severab sub­
terraneous noises. On Sunday the 11th, there was
another more violent, attended with a crackling *
interrupted sound ; and on Wednesday the 14th,
at two o’clock in the morning, there was another
Smart shock, the horror of which was.increased
by the darkness of the night, and violent showers
of rain. On the evening of the preceding Tues-
day huge clouds, apparently charged with electric
fluid,-hung over-the place.
DreadfulStorm of Thunder, Manchester, May 8.;
A more awful and tremendous storm of thunder
and lightning was never experienced in the me­
mory of the oldest person living, than that which-
Occurred last Thursday night, m this county and
Cheshire; and the damage sustained is almost in­
credible. The thunder was succeeded by immense
torrents of rain and hail. Not far from Waring-
ton, on the Cheshire side, a bolt fell which did
great injury, and by which one person in parti­
cular Suffered severely in his property. At Bol­
25
Digitized by Google
ton.aod its vicinity,, the people experienced a most
dreadful tornado, and it is supposed that a water
spout must have burst in that neighbourhood ;
the,river Irwell having swelled to so great a height
as to sweep away many buildings, and .large quan­
tities of household furniture, &c. The duration
of the storm was upwards.of two hours. At
Houlton-park, a ball of fire fell with such force as
to split in shivers and tear up an ash-tree, which
:had long been admired for its strength aiid beau­
ty. Several bridges have been thrown down.
Earthquake at Malta. On the 5th of May,
about a quarter before three o’clock in the after­
noon, we felt a slight shock of an earthquake;
and again on the 26'th of last month, at ten o’clock
at night, we had two very severe shocks, whidh
really made us, as well as the whole house, shake
.extremely. We expected the beams of the house
immediately to fall; however, we .have hitherto
escaped, and still hope we shall,
Brighton, June 25. The heavy bursts of thun­
der shook every house in the place to its base,
while the vast concave of heaven was seen in one
vivid and incessant blaze. A storm so dreadful as
-this appeared, is not in the memory of the oldest
inhabitant of the. place; and the consternation
and alarm.which it occasioned was universal. ...
tJune. A terrible famine has desolated Spain
for several months; the maritime countries nave
lately found some relief, but the provinces of the
interior continue to suffer. The price of bread is
excessive at Madrid: and this was the motive
which determined the expulsion of all strangers.
Buonaparte declared Emperor of France on the
20th of May.
A dreaijjul famine in the East Indies. A third
letter, dated from General. Wellesley’s camp, June
26, most, feelingly.relates that the troops have
been in the field upwards of sixteen months, and
for the last,five, in a state approaching tp starve-
$3
Digitized by
tion, from'a famine, which raged in that pact of
India; horses and cattle dying from want, villages
deserted, and their miserable inhabitants perish'
ing in the camp, for want of rice, which sold at-a
rupee per seer. It anticipates with fear the extent
of the evil.
Earthquake in Malta. We -have received let­
ters from our correspondent at Malta, dated Au­
gust 8. On the 11th of July; at near twelve
o’
clock in the day, we experienced another shock
of an earthquake, more severe than the two fop*
jner, which we felt on the 5th of May and the
Srith of June; these repeated shocks create some
alarm here.
July 14. On Thursday fell on Old Makon-moor,
the most extraordinary shower of hail ever remem­
bered in this part of the country, attended with
heavy rolls of thunder and dashes of lightning ex­
tremely viyid. The hailstones were as large a6
marbles, and the impetuosity so great, that in less
-than two minutes the ground was covered four
inches .thick, and every field of corn within its
sweep almost destroyed ; and some fields of wheat
ao completely, that the proprietors have deter­
mined upon ploughing them out, to avail them­
selves of the season for turnips. The injury done
on the moor is to an extensive amount.
Failure of the harvest announced in Parliament,
July 22. High price ofwheat in 1799,1800, 18o£,
taken notice of when the corn bill was proposed.'
•Agriculture Report for July. The harvest is
commenced in many parts of tne Eastern district,
where all the rye, and many pieces of oats, are
already cut, and some wheat has been reaped on
warm soils, and where they are smitten with the
iblight, or mildew, which we are sorry to say, pre-
avails too generally through most districts. ’’In
'Cambridge and Huntingdonshire their crop "df
bread corn was never more promisingtill the vid-
-lent and heavy rains fell about the .middle"Cf tile
24
Digitized by b o o g i e
month, when those wheats*which are very balky
were beaten to the ground, and immediately be­
came so generally blighted, that those counties
are not now expected to average more than .three
sacks an acre, where, till this accident, there was
a'.fair prospect of nine.
August. Accounts, from various parts of Spain
mention—that ,a scarcity exists in/that country,
which almost threatens it with* absolute famine.
The corn,harvest'has totally failed; the towns and
villages in the interior were sending deputations
to the sea-ports, to petition the constituted autho­
rities, for a supply of corn ; while the latter, de­
pending entirely on foreign nations, have hitherto
afforded them but a very scanty relief.
The earthquakes continue almost daily at Spo-
letto, which is nearly deserted by its inhabitants.
The lava of Vesuvius constantly overthroM's and
alarms the neighbouring country.
Malaga:, August 25. The fate of this city is
truly deplorable; pestilence, famine and earth­
quakes ; in fine, the greater plagues on earth unite
against us. The fever carries off a great number
of persons daily. It is not supposed the same epi­
demic disorder as that of last year, but has been
occasioned, by the violent heat, the great scarcity
of corn arid other provisions, which has been se­
verely felt by the poorer classes ofthe inhabitants,
the improper use of fruits, &c. We have here now
not more than, at the utmost, will last us for a
month, and should we have no supplies, in con­
sequence of the communication being cut off, we
.must suffer dreadfully from famine. The day be­
fore yesterday, about four in the afternoon, a shock
of an earthquake was felt here ; and this morning,
about, half past eight, another;, but neither of
them, thank God,, did any particular damage.
Charlestown, America, August 22. Captain Ball *
reports, that a very malignant fever raged in every
-B
26
Digitized by Google
. -as
partoftbefown, that naanyoftheship’
screws were
tarried off by it, and that most of the inhabitants
^ho-wereable to remove had actually.gone, or were
going Co different places for.safety in the interior.
Storm <fHail in France, August. All the pro­
ductions of the earth, corn, wine, and fruit, ham
i»een entirely destroyed in ten minutes, by a hail
storm, in the department of Upper Garonne.
Madrid, Sept. 4. By the earthquake of.the 25th,
•tflt.4bree>churches, and several houses fell in. .At
Cartbagena and the Havannah it was more severe­
ly felt.
Dreadful Hurricane in theWest Indies, Sept.4.
It -was rooatfatal at St. Kitt’s. Every vessel them
was lost; the number is said to he one hundred
-and twenty ; at Antigua fifty-nine: St. Bartholo­
mew fifty ; Dominica one; St. Thomas's forty-
four. Total loss, two hundred and seventyrfour.
Dreadful Hurricane at Charlestown, Sept. 10.r»-
iMany houses washed away, and much damage
-done to the shipping in the harbour..
Delugein Italy. 'J'he harvest is entirely ruined,
.and the vineyards destroyed, several thousand
-hpads^of cattle, and upwards of two hundred peo­
ple perished. Since the water has. lowered, the
fptench of these corpses and carcasses have allured
wolves >
by scores, not -only devouring the dead,
.hut attacking the living..
Luxemburgh, Sept. 15. Thismorning, at eleven
.o’clock, very unexpectedly, the alarm bell was
rung. In an instant, all the streets were crowded
with people, running in alarmand confusionagainst
-each other. The whole town seemed in a blaze,
-and the, flames from the surrounding mountains
ascended to heaven, which -alsoappeared as if it.
badbeenentire. The unusually hot .weather, which,
we had experienced for. some days, has charged
the air with sulphurious exhalations, and setfire-to
ithe houses,in the south of lfce -mountains. In .less
than a quarter of an hour forty-seven peasant’s
Digitized by Google
ho&sAs were consumed; with their dut-hoilse^ cat­
tle, &c. some persons, who attempted to got tor
their assistance, were obliged to return, from the
great heat caused by tf»e sun and by. the fire.
Upwards of three hundred persona perished; The;
misery and alarm are general. For to-morrow,
public prayers and a fhst have been ordered.
Vienna, Sept. 26. The great heat which prevail­
ed for threeweekshad' caused malignant fevers; the
peopleattacked bythecontagion died in a fewdays*
Harvest defective in Ireland by die blight.
Gibraltar, Sept. 27. The fever which broke out.
at Malaga has extended itself to several* other ci­
ties; Cadiz, Alicant, Valeptia, &e. have been visit­
ed by it, and even we have not escaped. lit is
iloW, however, thank God, On the decline, and!the*
number of deaths here now averaged at20 per djem,
Malagai. We have been favoured with’the:fol­
lowing particular and interesting account of th©
>
mortality that has taken place at Malaga;; fropte
the first appearance of the. plagues, to the 9th of
October, when it may be said to have compleflely
subsided. The’disorder appeared about the-9th of .
August, so that the dreadful destruction annexed
occurred in the short space of two months. The.
following' is extracted from the official return sent
from Malaga to the Court of Madrid:
42 Persons belonging to the Cathedral. 7%Pri­
vate clergymen. 81 Friars. 76 Nuns. 700 Soldiers
of the regiment of Almanza and; Comma, 406
Ditto of the Queen’s regiment and regiment of
Estramadura. 100 Ditto of the regiment of Mala­
ga. 300 Galley slaves and prisoners. 13 Medical
men. 21,343 Private individuals. Total 23,133.
Gibraltar, Nov. 19. Deaths up to this day of
troops by the fever—Officers 44. Soldiers 820;
Sick 420. Convalescent,, but not discharged the
hospital 160. Inhabitants dead 3727. Sick 43i
The papers also give us several accounts: of
97
Digitized by b o o g i e
insurrections, shewing the disturbed state of the
Turkish Empire, and of the cruelties among the
Negroes in the West Indies; but the few particu­
lars I have inserted, here are sufficient to shew that
the judgments of God are in the earth.
Here I have mentioned some of the-events,
which have happened abroad, to prove the truth
of the Prophecies, which people do not discern ;
arid all these things are soon forgotten, if the truth
is not laid before them ; therefore I was ordered
to have'some of these events printed in my books.
And now I shall conie to another observation, that
I’have drawn from the weather, and what has
happened in the twenty-four days, from the first
of this present January, which I was ordered to
mark at the end of 1803; as many had mocked
me, and'said, if I was a prophet, I ought to shew
them signs and wonders to prove it. I then was
ordered to tell them to mark the signs of the wea­
ther,. the twenty-four days in January, beginning
the first day in the year 1804. *See the 2d page
of Warning to the World. Those days were com­
pared to months, respecting which it was said,
that it was to mock the unbelieving world, who
said, unless they saw signs and wonders, they would
not believe; and therefore it was said; they should
not be able to draw any 'judgment from the wea­
ther; as all would come in a way and manner
they did not understand,. But now I shall begin
to draw my judgment from the past,and the pre­
sent. The twenty-four months have rolled on in
the nations abroad, like the words that were said
from the weather: but all hath appeared as a mist
to us; as these awful scenes have not happened
at home ; neither was there any thing awful in the
weather, in the time I was ordered to mark it:
But one observation is called quick to my remem­
brance : what is said to me at one time, is to be
fulfilled at another; and this is my observation of
88
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
the weather; when I consider, from the rolling
stone, that was set as a sign to me, it should roll
on for three years, with signs of judgments to our
land, as well as others; and twenty-four months
have rolled on abroad, severely felt by the neigh­
bouring nations, and the shadows upon our land.
Then now my observation is, to mark the .weather .
of the twenty-four days, after the twenty-four
months are over; and make my own remarks from
the weather, how we may fear the storm at home:
and let us observe the 8th day, what storms arose
when they were bringing the body of Lord Nel­
son to the Admiralty, to whom they gave the
honour of the victory, not only at the time it set
out from. Greenwich, but particularly when it was
landed at Whitehall. The procession was thrown
into confusion, and several lives were lost in con­
sequence of this storm, though it may have, not
been noticed in the papers; but I shall not enter
into further particulars. The following day was
his funeral; and now mark what storm and tem­
pest of thunder and lightning- followed the next'
morning, aboutfour o’clock, which wasseverely felt,
and considerable damage was done on the coast.
• A paper of the 14th instant, says, the gales of
wind lor the last three days have been tremendous
indeed, accompanied by such hailstones, thunder,
and lightning, as have been seldom witnessed in
this country. Another paper, says, from an ac­
count dated Harwich, January 14. A large Ame­
rican ship was lost last Saturday night, near Cat-
wick on the Dutch coast; the crew took to the
masts; but there was no possibility of saving them.
A letter from Liverpool, dated the 16th instant,
says, “ We had a most' tremendous storm of thun­
der, lightning, and rain, accompanied, with .a very
violent gale. Last Friday night, two .men were
ftruck dead by the lightning on board a vessel in
the dock, and. several vessels were lost. TheTel-
.amon West Indiaman, in endeavouring to come
29
Digitized by L - o o s l e
*©tind the rock, was driven by .the win# upon- it;
and every soul oh board perished. Manchester,
January IS. In the night between Wednesday an#
Thursday last, such immense torrents of rain fell
in this town and neighbourhood, as rtot only M
swell the rivers to an almost unparalleled magm*
tode, but to inundate the whole of the land, lying'
upon their.borders. Messrs. Foster and Bargefs
wooded bridge, at Broughton Ford, was carried-
away by the strength and rapidity of dm flood';
and the merciless- element seemed at. one time to
. threaten general devastation. Horses, sheep, fun*
niture and other effects, were seen floating downs
the stream ; nor was it possible to save the pro**
petty. The above dreadful deluge, we fear, must
have spread its ravages to a wide extent.
Tp enumerate all the damage done by tbe stonBS,
both by sea and land, since the first of January,
would be too tedious, and I shall therefore insert
no reports, but what I See from the public papers,
.and whatlhave observed from the weather myself.
Eight nights I have remarked since the beginning
of January, that I never heard such storms ana
winds to continue, at this season- of the year, be*
ing the'middle of winter; therefore, as I was or-*
dered to mark the weather, two yearn ago, in these
twenty-four days, I have.marked them now; for
we know, from the Scriptures, that the Lord often
speaks of a time to come, as well as the present;
and as people have been so presumptuous as to put
in the paper these words—
1
*
*
*The merciless eta*
merits,” I wish them now to toll reason to their
assistance, and see if this ungrateful nation: hath
not abused the mercies of the Lord, to provoke
him to anger, so as to withdraw his mercies from
us. Then they must own with shame and confu­
sion, that the fault is their Own; it is they theirs
selves who bring down the judgments, which they
Said they feared. So now I hope; from die signs
of the weather, in the manner this year hath begnjn
30
\
Digitized by Google
that every serious mind will lay it to heart, and
fear from the shadow? what substance may follow.
When wctcome to reflect on the the Scriptures,
and the,people’s asking of our Saviour what sign?
he would give them, when these things should,
eeme to pass, Lake jgu. 7. mark our Saviour’
s an<>
swer—Take heed that ye be not deceived. He the#
tells them of the war that should follow Jerusalem,
and the signs they should seefrom heaven, which i?
affirmed by antient.writers: the sword of heaven
t#as seen to hang over Jerusalem a twelvemonth
hefpfe it was destroyed; and Jerusalem was qom-
'passed round with armies, •and the disciples were
destroyed, as pur Saviour told them; and the Jew?
were led away captive into all nations, and Jeriju*
salem was trodden down. Here were the first signs
Jbe gave them of the truth of his words to assure
.them of his potoing again, which they were not to
e* peotuntil the TJMES•oftheQentiles'werefuljiU&L
Then he tells them of the very:things that are now
hefiprc ns upon the earth”-distnesses of nations,
men’s hearts failing them far feat, and far looking
.after these things, which are coming on the earth.
&q here our Saviour pave the sign to his disciples,
what should fallow in their days, tp assure man­
kind pfthe truth of his words, and whatshould hie
jat his spcpjtP (coming; far he tells them, in the
£ th v$rM, what must first come to pass, but that
the and was not yet; for nation should rise against
natwrn, and kingdom against kingdom, great
earthquakes should he in divers places, famines,
-and pestilence; and yet :
he tells them, th atbefum
-all these things, their destruction should come,
And .Jerusalem hedestroyed. So the signs were put
in snob manner that many have taken them as one
.sign, of the destruction of Jerusalem; and others
-have taken themas osnesigu, of the second coming
-pf our Lord, when he cometh in a cloud, with
power and great glory. Here men do not discern
.the diflerenee.of the ; how they were meant;
Digitized by G o o g l e
the one to assure them of the truth of His words,
by what should follow to them that persecuted
him ; and the other to tell them what were the
signs of his coming again ; and how they should
watch and pray, that they might be Counted wor*
thy to escape all these things that should come to
pass, and to stand before the So n o f M a n . Thus
our Saviour alluded to his coming; but did not
tell h is disciples, that they should escape, or that
they would escape the sufferings that were to comft
on them in this world, before the destruction- of
Jerusalem; because h e told them, they would be
put to death. So if men discern in what manner
the words were spoken, and in what manner they
were first fulfilled, to see Jerusalem destroyed, and
the Jews scattered, they would discern the o$ier
sign of his coming..So this is my observation, from
our Saviour’s words, how they were fulfilled in his
Gospel. I have drawn the same observations, to
discern the sighs of the weather, as I was ordered
to mark them ; but know it was said, that no sigU
of the weather should be known, from that year,
of what was hastening on; for like a snare it should
come upon them, in a day they little thought of
for the sign of the weather was only at that time
meant to mock the unbeliefof mankind, that said,
unless they saw signs and wonders,, they would not .
believe ; and so they expected to see wondrous
weather at the time they were ordered to mark it;
but then they were disappointed; and yet, at the
end of the twenty-four months, in a day they did
not look for, neither thought ofobserving the wea-
•ther, in the third year, we see what sudden destruc­
tion came upon many by sea and land, in the days I
was ordered to mark, and in the course of the three
years that were mentioned, from the rolling stone.
Herelshall leave the readers to draw their observa­
tion, as I was ordered to draw mine, before any am- ”
swer was given me; but the answer that is given me,
,from the signs of this present year, lam orderednot
S3
Digitized by L , o o Q l e
to put in print, as It is for Relievers only. So thd
unbelieving world, whosay they want noprophecies
to tell them the events that are how before, them, as
all can see and judge for theirselves, for theirselves
they are left tojudge; but believersmustjudge from
the pastand thepresent, howall things were spoken;
and how all things have been fulfilled in the past;
and then, they may judge or what is to come.
' Now I shall come to the title page of this Book:
as I have said—A foil Assurance that the Kingdom
of Christ is at hand, from the Signs of.the Times.-
I shall now tell them what Signs I mean. Here are
the signs of the Gospel* which I have mentioned as
coming perfectly to our Saviour’s words: and then
he telleth us to lift up our heads ; for, lo, your re­
demption draweth nigh, which we may observe,
from the signs before us, howfast they are fulfilling*
And now I shall come to another sign,' from our Sa­
viour’s words in St. John xiv. 1(>
, 17, and 26verses*
Here our Saviour assures us, he shall give us ano­
ther Comforter, that he may abide with us forever,
even .theSpirit of Truth. Now this Spirit of Truth
is the Spir it of God to fulfil hiswords; and this is
another Comforter to man, when he comes to bring
in his Kingdom of Peace; which our Saviour as­
sures us, the unbelieving world will not receive; but
to them that will receive it, our Saviour telleth us,‘
the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the
Father will send in my Name, he shall teach you all
things, and bring all things to your remembrance.
In Chap. xv. 26. our Saviour says, The Spirit of
Truth, which proceedetli from the Father, he shall
testify of me, In Chap. xvi. 13—Howbeit, when
he,'the Spirit of Truth, is come, he will guide you
into,all truths; for whatsoever he heareth that snail
he speak; and he will shew you things to come.
Here our Saviour speaks of the Visitation of his Spi­
rit, to Warn you of all things, before the end. And
how, from the Visitation of the Spirit, that has
E ,
99
Digitized byGoogle
b«n given'to prophesy of all these things,, before
they sprang forth, I was warned of them, as it is
well known and published to the world of my vi­
sitation in 170$: and all particular events of any
consequence were all foretold; and this visitation
has been to others to confirm the words, that die
end is aft hand. So the truth of the Spirit has
been fulfilled in his visitation to me, and come in
die manner our Saviour foretold. Thus all the
Signs are together; and the unbelief on the one
hand, and faith on the other, as our Saviour fore­
told toe end would be. Then if we weigh the
whole together,' we may see, from the fulfilment
of toe Bible, and the truth of the prophecies, and
how near the six thousand years are .expired, that
our Savioqr said, if the days were not shgftened
no -flesh would he saved, hut for the de& sake
they would be shortened; then now let us consi­
der, how all these things happened together, to
fulfil the’truth of the Gospel, for the shortening
of toe days, before they are fully expired, which
is not two centuries. I cannot give a clear expla­
nation ofall the signs in this Book; but I have told
them of my visitation from the Spirit of the Lord,
and in what manner one rose from the dead ; and
how:the truth followed there ; and how the other
truths have followed, which may be discerned in
all my writings, then may I not say, I have a clear
assurance to know that toe Kingdom of Christ is
at band, from all the signs coming true together?
And now I shall come to the words spoken to
me in January, 1800— *
- “ They shall know I have spoken out of Zion j
and I will utter my voice in the midst ofJerusalem:
tor I -am the Lord God, ready for battle; and my
arm shall be strong among my people; for a two-
edged sword is in my hand-; the one to cut down
the powers of darkness and the workers thereof ih
high places; the other to cut down those that deny
94
Digitized by
m
my Bible and the fulfilment thereof; focif they will
not hear,' and if they will not lay it to heart, to give
glory to my Nam5, 1will send a curse upon them:
but where two or three are gathered together in my
name, there will I be in the midst ot them, and
bless them. So now let men k>ve or fear; for now
cometh the fulfilment of the Law and the Gospel.
So now men must shew their love to m e , that; when
J come, I may find every name written for m e ; for
there must Satap's proud waves be stayed.
“ AS the good Fruit was on the tree,
« The ending men must all know mb ;
Or else my word can never stand,.
As I did plant the tree for man; •
And the good fruit was on the tree;
Then all mankind must sure know me,
^ r - And judge me by mV powerful reign*
v ' When you my kingdom do obtain,
"" And I begin to reign alone,
:• .:c:.. . A®d;ta*wii Satan room hte throne.
For a j&ill then appear,
X<ike watered here *
And pi&cfe atifcipMty thafl be found,^^
\ - ' , .• Atnd every heart in mb be crowned; ^
/ And every,nation then shall come V" 1
V , •.'1V. fir heart united as one man*; . 7
And if thal gold can do you good* .
^ ,, Pve mines are hid that shall be showed; *
* r •' 1 — And in the seas Pve hidden store,
And then Pil bring it aft on shore;i
And then Pll make all barren lands A
To bring in glorious crops for man; t
And every heart Pll fill with love; .
And the good fruit they all shall prove, ,
A perfect knowledge then of me—
Angels and men shaH then agree.
Pll cultivate the bairen lands,
, And the wild*beasts shall silent Stand,
And all the earth Fit fill With store J J ~
Thestorms andf tempests shalTbg'o’tif; -
No burning heat shaft then appear,,
But pleasant Weather bright and fiir;
N o searching frost to Chiu your blood/ "
Nor piercing cold as it hath, stood, .\ -
"But summers pleasant, winters mijtf* ~
And men in heart Pll so beguile, ‘■
'That evert man shall have a wife,
And love her equal as his life;
And happy offspringsShall appear
For to complete your pleasures her$'
Digitized by
* . This 1 design’d for man at first, , ,
And I’ll fulfil it at the last. , .
So if the truth you wish to know, " .
Higher and higher you must go, ' •
v Ana tell me if the miit is good;
_For now I’ve shewn you how it stood,
" And how to man it^must come down;
When the good fruit in me is found,
The difference every man shall see,
And know the good fruit is in me.
So if the truth you wish tp prove,
Continue like this woman’s love;
To know my Name she’th given her all—
* Awake, O man! for deep’s the call;
And great the calling will appear,
Before that I have ended here.
The evil fruit must all fall down,
And the good fruit to man must come:
. And next I’ll shew the tree of life—
The flaming sword shall end the strife.”
Here I have given a short Communication, that
was given to me, to shew what the Kingdom of
Christ w.ould be, when the powers of darkness
were destroyed, and th6 knowledge of the good
fruit come to man, and he to enjoy the Tree of
Life, that was preserved for Man. And now I shall
give another Communication, given tome in 17.97,
to shew what must take place before this happy
period arrives; but this was given from the Bible,
to prove it would be fulfilled.
86
u For earth, I say, must pass away,
To make my Bible true,
And a new earth must surely come—•
Bring all before your view:
Because the first was surely cast—
Look deep, ye sons of men;
As I#ve begun I shall go on,
And make the chanto fly; -
.Because my harvest near is come,
And now the corn I’
Jl try.
I’ll bum the weed, and leave no seed; -
I’ll make the fallows bare;
The stfoil I’ll bum ; the ploughers come;
For root and branch I’ll tear.
A husbandman I’ll now begin;
And a good one I’ll be,
I’ll surely make my pasture clean,
That every soul shall see;
Digitized by
1
, And FlHppeara 'inan ofwar, r. r ;
r And valiant now Fll stand;
;i •' ;1 For conquering I shall conquer now, '' k '" '
No foe shall scape my hand, ,, , • f
My conquering sword shall fly abroad;
^ For Zion Fll maintain ;
Jerusalem* it must be known,
Shall be pew built again.
From shore to shore let cannons ro a r~
Your war is not begun; ~
Then sons of light, *tis time to fight,
And every battle win.
Your breast-plates take, your armour make—-
Your backs they will want none;
'You’ll see the foe before you go;
Then ye have no need to turn.
From pcie to pole shall thunder roll;
< Before you I shall go;
I ’ll clear the field, and all shall yield,
When Gentiles join with Jews.
So now begin, and stand like men,
. And see your Bibles clear,
Whatw ord to wield, till all do yield,
When I am conqueror here..
The vallies low you all do know, ’
And there they all must come ;
When every nation is brought low,
I’ll surely plead with Man.” '
Another Communication, given in 1797, on a
dreadful storm of thunder and lightning in August.
“ Now Ml begin for to explain.
Such lightning thou hadst never seen;
One clap of thunder did appear^
The time draws near it will be here;
The night was dark and gloomy too.—
— 1
‘ ^ ,I ’ll bring the mysteries to your view ;
.• For perfect like it is your land;
^ / For here the light do none command:
Flash after flash did hasty come;
-'* From eight to twelve it did roll on,
;'l' Before ray thunder did appear. . ^
' Now I’ll explain the mysteries here:
So dark and dreary as the night,
So dark are all the sons of light; «
Though lightning flashes in their face,
I’ll bring it perfect to this race.
Man Fir compare to the dark night; 1
The harvest’s now before their sight,
A harvest for the sons of men,
And fast my lightning doth come on,
That like the noon-day they might see—
Write Chaanon’s words, I’ll answer thee;”
37
Digitized by G o o g l e
Channon said, the Mghtnmgcartte Solo the room
like noon-day; and it raided as' though-heaven and
earth were coming together.
“ Now I’ll'begin forto eoc^laia .
The mystery defeponee more:
My Bible flashes in, your face*
The light youmay seecle&P i
Page after page isnoW fahilPdfc
And line On line is coine ;
Like the noon-day, yon all may sdfl*
My Gospel doth come on.
The truth is clekr, the light is hfefc,
And every man might see*
My thunderbolts are nastanOfi o% .
And heafven and esfcthXwiet}W
As Channon spoken the taHtJrmust dflbp;
Fpr hoaVen^ttdearth mustjoin, . 2
Together codbcboth Gob*anaMao, / 4
One.Swnttotfoaftist bind*
Till this is done it will itfli os»
* My thundering vdite tou’Dhear.
Unknown to ndn when*umadeif om&tj
My voice is sovereign therie^ x
Y et thi$ to tfeeeifa mystery,?
But I will it explain* •
It is to shew maekindfbekew, .
I surely shall come down:
Prom age to age, from year to year, t >
-P r‘'' My thunderharfik be6i»-hea«f,
To let ydu knowthc^ ioaibfcrw' v . . .L,
f or tnose that don’t regard
The voice of man; then I will come
. And m&ke rty thunae? foil;
It s6 Shall break, when loud I ^peat
^Twill tear the stubborn soul.^
The following Communication was given me in
17.98, concerning'the French, who said, by the
holy Jesus that died for them, add the blessed Vir­
gin Mary, they would fight up to their knees in
blood, till they had destroyed all the heretics. To
their words I was answered^— • ,
“ If on-thte Cross for them t died, .
Wky ao they now want mart ,
Topardon here? Let allsfce clesft 1
Tlfoir mockery I'll condemn; / .
I died for mam ft shall be kn6tfn | ,.
But sure f aied in vain, 'V •
.
If mjfcn could pardon now fci$ { f.
/. Then tfian o’er man must reljgfi., , . -
m $avfouf, they mak£ ' :
3S
Digitized by Google
j
jr\
1
"
t
1
Notserereign tLotd, 4&or King >
But men below, you all do know,
^ <Fhe honour’s given to them.
This hath been done for ages gone ;
And this I did permit * p
But now Pll eoroe the Priest and King ;
Theserimticmsmust submit. -
No more Pll bear my honour here
'To be-eo much abus’d ;
Their gods m sunder now Pll tear,
And all their oaths refuse. •
Tp fight in blood they may proceed $
But blood shall run in yain ; '
Jf on.thevCross for M in I. cartie,
JMg ^ s e Pllnow maintain. ,
T heaebts to me, you all shaH see,
^That.everv man doth t>we; .
Then where^s^em an^W l daqe forgiy#
» r^ r -rea^ Holy Law?
you to man for pardon come,
My Gospel do notname; . '
^,I?T,lot y°« build upon ;
Nor do I want your fame ' '
To sound for me in blasphemy, :
T SfifB^Eyou all dj^y. . .
™dypn?
all to look to mje;
1But'unto man you By, ' •' * * ^
And m sJwlimgoii, to
j j * m in hup yon do trust;
Then bless not me in mockery;
:No*longer now Pll jest; .
I’ll he a King, it shall he seen,
And now forgive the whole ;
W elsePll be your enemy;
Andipan maypardQnall.
So now if man do trust in m#n,
Near now your fatal doom;
The curse is here, the woes appear, .
Your sentence thus must come:
Cursed is man that trusts in man,
And maketh flesh his stay!
Wh«n to the purpose I do come,
mThey all must pass.away.
M y Father’s love did I approve,
To leave my heavenly throne,
* *or DlaiJ> the ransom come,.
And for mankind atone!
A fountain here did .then appear,
A pure and chrysfal stream,;
But broken cisterns hewed there, *
That no man can redeem; ‘
#o.see vour trust; no more pll jest i
My Bible I’ll make good.
Now I’ll appear, and tell thee here .
Why all these heathens stood; .
* °r heathens they must he to me : v
But this I mean to clear, .
Digitized by Google
To trust:in tMn, a thing'thaf’s vm»> *
Can they be Christians here*? - , •r
Then trust in me, their Christ they’ll see,
’Tis (hat doth England save ;
For though I see their cruelty;
And hdw the poor do live ; ,
Yet I forbear my vengeance here,
MyQoapel to prolong;
And England will awake and fear, .
When further truths do come*”
And now I shall come to another Communicati­
on, given me in 1799, from Isaiah Ivl 1—Thus saith
my Lord, keep ye judgment, and do justice: for
my salvation is near to come, and my righteousness
to be revealed. To this I was answered—
' “ My salvation is to save, to the uttermost parts
of the earth, all that turn unto me; and whosoever
believeth in me shall be saved; for myrighteousness
shall be revealed; that hath been concealed 'from
the foundation of the world, and shall now be re­
vealed to thee; and when believed, will be revealed
to man. Righteousness denotes every thing that is
just and right; and so shall I do evefy thing that is
just and right. But was it just to chain down Satan
in titter darkness, for his rebellion in heavfen, before
I had tried him further? Therefore I haade mam,
and took one of his boxes to complete.his happi­
ness ; here Satan soon found away to Work on the
woman, to complete his sorrows^ Thai is it not
just, is it not righteous for m e to the same
promise at last as'I did atfirst, when I said to man,'
In the day thoueatest thereof’ thou shalt surely die,
and then pronounced that death on man, andfixed
the bounds of the Fall ? Then here is my justice,
when my time is expired, for me to say, In the.
day I seeperfect obediencein the woman"
, and men
to copy after her, ye shall surely liveandpossess the
tB
.ee of life ;and is it notjust and righteousfo r
me to fix the samb standard fo r the falien angelst
as I did fo r fallen, taunt Therefore .1 have fixed
Satan’s bounds by the sealed, . that if he tempt
one of my chosen men,, after they are brought to
49
Digitized by Google
4T' '
true Obedient, lie shell bd oiat dowh ; for I will
finish ihe work it last, that I designed- at first j-
and then k the trial cf man; when life hath no
tempter to tempt him, no enemy td pursue trim,
no a^td to betray him; then shall I judge Manas
Marf, and see where the fault Ues-^ht men or dej
vils.' So here is my Righteousness repealed j-^but
krto^y T come quickly; attd my, reward is With
M«; f<rreward every matt according to his works :
Btitthefinal day ofjudgment will not come, before
I himejudged man 'withoutthepotvefsof darknesH
to work On-him. This is ihy Righteousness rCveaK
ed “and. this is my Saltation for men—16 save'
them first from Satan’s poWer, that I may be cleat1
in judging, and just in Condemning. So he thaf
hath ears td hear, let him hear; and he that hathf
understanding, let him understand; he that believ-
eth in M
te, alid^rdiieth upon me, hath a part in the
TfKEE of This fom y reward to Man: he
that thirsteth for the Water of Life shall obtafft it? •
and-he that is longing for the Tree of Life shall
enjoy it; If be do not live long enough in this
. life to see Paradise regained, he shall enjoy it in
the next world. This is my reward to the Believ­
ers : but he that mocks and despises my offered
mercies shall be cut off from the Tree of Life."' The
day of judgment is when the one thousand years
are expired, after Satan hath been bound. I shall
now fulfil my word and my Bible: one day is one
thousand years; the six days.I laboured, and rest­
ed the seventh; and I have said, My Spirit shall
not always strive with Man. So there remaineth
a rest for the people of God, one thousand years;
and as long as Satan is chained before the sixth
thousand is up> so long will he be.let loose, before
the seventh thousand is up: then cometh the aw­
ful day’of judgment.; for the graves to give up
their dead; and death and hell must give up their
dead.—But now I«eome quickly, and my reward
. . .. v ’
Digitized by
4*
is with me, to search the heart, and try the reins*
of the children of men : and happy, thrice happy
are those that long for my c o m in g . I said the
Kingdom of Heaven was like a Pearl of great
price; that man must dig deep to find it; and this
Pearl is of great price ; and men must begin to
count the cost; and then proceed to shew its *
worth. In the first place, it cost my l i f e ! in
the second, it hath grieved my s p i r i t , to see the
sorrow of heart, the anguish of mind thou hast
went through for my sake! believing and fearing
hath wounded thy heart; this wounds me afresh,
to see the unbelief of man, placing daggers in thy
heart through unbelief! But my Bible could not
he. fulfilled without it; how could I be perfect
G o d and perfect man, if I did not in all things
resemble both to perfection ? Then, as perfect
G o d I must fulfil my word in the w oma n, and
complete the bliss of man ; and she must be his
helpmatefor good; as perfect man, I must bring the
shadow to the substance, to resemble man in every
perfection I ordained for him and designed for him.
“ Now let the learned judges see
''the manhood T have took oh me ;
And when the Godhead doth appear,
\ Yoil'll surely find the Pearl is near.
So from thy heart now judge the cost—
And shall tliis Pearl e’er be lost,
That I t\aye bought as God and man,
That to perfection^! may come ?
For when this Pearl you ap find,
It will enlighten all mankind.
Then now I l>id you judge its worth:
Dig deep and set its beauties-forth;
Ana when its beauty doth appear,
No diamond can with this compare;
But to find you must dig deep,
E'er you can see this Pearl so great:
For your wisdom it will try,
Before you see the Pearl is nigh,
peep in thought you must begin,
E'er ybu can discern the thing;
Peep in wisdom to trace back
The hand that nail’d thee t p j k Rock;
. Deep in faith you must '
rru— ___ ‘___
Then to the Pearl you come
Digitized by Google
' ' Deep in charity appear;
Judge like Abraham heretofore:
Deeply you must trace the Fall;
Deeply judge your Maker’s call;
Deep philosophy must come;
Deep divinity be shewn;
Deep you must together weigh;
! Then the Pearl you all will see, 1
That it is a glorious prize:
Sell your wisdom, and grow wise;
For when I do rescue Man,
| Like Adam all amaz’d will stand:
% And the old bottles all will burst,
If I should not new make them tirst;
For to fill them all anew:
Mended garments will not do;
Now I say I’ll patch no more.—
See my Gospel and be clear:
Every thought I’ll now make new—
Bring my Gospel to your view:
Throw your fig-leaves all aside;
Let the sheep-skins lower your pride.
Now the mystery I’ll make clear,
Tell thee what the sheep-skins are:
,*Tis not the Shepherds, but the sheep
That wisely act to find it out;
Therefore thy hand I so ordain’d,
To write in such a curious strain,
As no one can discern it clear,
For to try my people here;
And had I never found a Friend,
My Sheep must perish in the end—
But faithless Shepherds— happy S h e e p .
The end will make the learned weep.”
A Communication given in 1796. I was ordered
to open my Bible three times. The first was in St.
Lukes.ix. The next was in Nehemiah xi, 1—And
the rulers of the people dwelt at Jerusalem: the
rest of the people also cast lots, to bring one of ten,
to dwell in Jerusalem the holy city, and nine parts
to dwell in other cities. The last time was in the
40th Psalm—l waited long and sought the Lord.
THE ANSWER OF THE SPIRIT.
“ And from the Gospel I shall first begin:
Thou know’st the Jews my conduct they did blame,
That with the sinners I did freely go:
Salvation in his house I then did shew,
Zaccheus did with }oy me entertain,
While the proud Pharisees did me disdain,
43
'f Digitized by C j O O ^ I c
Who twice a week they said that they did fast,
And in public long their prayers did last;
But for all this the truth would never own,
But built their faith upon their works alone.
So if their works alone Uwould them save,
My Blood for them I had no need to give;
But for the sinners I did freely die.—
And now I’ve chus’d them is the righteous* cry ;
Or the self-righteous do them all condemn,—
So what foundation do men build upon ?
As little knowledge men have got ot me,
As thou hast of that chapter thou dost see;
And in thy heart thou say’st that thou hast none- *
The men by lots do to Jerusalem come:
So now by lots are all my chosen here,
That don’t refuse the lot I bid them bear;
Or don’t refuse to act as they arc drawn,
And in Jerusalem dwell when it dibth come.
That holy city I shall surely"build p *
And open wide the gate beyond men’s skill.
The new Jerusalem it is coming down—
One out of ten in lots may then be found;
But to Judea will the nine parts B e e -
One out of ten in all that’s left will be;
The sword, the famine, or the plague before,
Will sure destroy the nine parts, if not more *
But now the tenth part do the priests here crave ;
Then let them preach and pray the tenth to save.
But different doctrine they must aft begin,
Or else, I tell them, they’ft ne'er save the ten;
Then for their tythes I bid them come no more,
If they can’t save the tenth-—the tythes are here:
And in nay house 3 order them to bring ;
For I shaft tell them aft the tythes are mine.—
And if niy Gospel it is so abus’d,
I willrtisown the Gentiles,- like the Jews;
For the wild olives, they liave room to fear,
g
the time benches they deployed were.—
it for thyself, thou openesJt then il) verse,
And like the Psalm I will the words express;
I know that thou hast waited lorig,
And paltentbf did bear;
And in the end all flesh shall see.
I’ll answer all thy prayers.
I say thou shalt not wait in vain,
Though thou hast waked long ;
And by thy waiting all may see
What B ock thou build’s upon.
It never \vas in Satan’s power
To keep a heart secure,
Jn such bye-paths to lead them on—
What nature could endure
For to be mock’d and be despised,
W ith fortitude to bear,
44
Digitized by
Trusting their Leader is too wise
To draw them in a snare ?
All those that Satan do obey,
They hardened are by sin;
And though he leads them in that way,
The paths to them are plain:
The harlot and the drunkard know
The paths that they are in:
The mystery layeth but to the just—
And like thy pen fail down;
But then I’ll raise them up again,
And guard them by my power,
And gently lead when they’re with young,
Their burden cannot bear.
If e’er a Christian is misled
By Satan’s artful hand,
It is to mark what path he trod,
That stronger he might stand ;
And by the footsteps that he’th trod,
He’ll marl^ and stray no more,
Saying, by it lie was misled,
And Satan must stop there;
For with the Christian he must end—
♦
I’ll never leave my sheep
To such a faithless, cruel fiend,
That drags them in the pit.
So to thyself I’ll answer here,
If Satan thee deceive. ^ '
A Sheep of mine thou ne’er could’st be—
~
O, how do men believe!
Then, wl\at am I ? is now thy cry—
O, thou of little faith !
What, doth the water swell so high
Of what the Spirit saith?
Then now I’ll tell thee what thou art-
The true andfaithful Bride,
Whom Satan’s arts have deeply us’d^
That thou may’st be denied.
His hellish arts with all their force
Have left no stone untried ;
Therefore the victory l can boast—
Thou’rt worthy of the Bride.
If.that by man thou wast pufif’d up,
Thou could’st not worthy b e;
For then my Wisdom it must stop,
And man enjoy the day.
But for assistance I want none;
I am not grown so poor,
That I can’t keep thee In the way,
Without my children’s care.
By poverty, I say to thee,
My power’s not come so low,
That I cannot preserve thy soul
Without mankind below.
44
Digitized by
Thy chri&ian spirit they deny; : ' -
And so they all did Mine;
- When they did all give me the lie, -
I did them all resign.
While they a devil think of thee,
Or with him to converse,
His words in all things to obey,
They must deny thee Grace; -
Then nowwith them thou’lt not contend*' .
While they do thus believe ;
But they will air find in the end,
Satan doth them deceive.”
A Communication, given in 1795, pf what »
sealed on earth is sealed in heaven.
“ And now on earth the type is here, '
As I before have said: .
•What I on earth do surely bind, *
I surely bind in heaven—
That like the rustling of the wind, 1
It unto Man is given; :
* * Anffwhat on earth I now do loose* ~ .
Pll surely loose in heaven; '' ,.
That is, ofthose that do me choose, ~
Their sins are all forgiven. . ,
I am the first, and I made Man* "
Like mv owKstLF to be; ^
‘ 1 am the last, and will complete *
' His perfect Victory. _
So now, I say, the time is come ~
ThaJ darkness doth appear; -
The eVefikg and the morning star f
Do singly both appear t .
# And as a Sp^rroW, thou dost s$y, , ~
Thou surely art alone; 1 .
Theb on the nouse-top thou shalt be, . '
And they muk call thee down. -
A three-fold iqj^ing is in all things, 1
As in the heavens are three.—r ,
The Bondswoman I shall cast out^ *
And now take in the free. -
By wedlock bands and sin she*s bound s '
For all her vows she broke; ^
Her childien she regarded not—* "
' And Isa^c she did mock; -
Therefore/1 say, Pll cast her out; i
Her life I'll take a w a y * .,
And the free woman must come fcw 1
My Bible to display; ~ r
Or else, I say, for to fm#l,' ' ,v,v ' *
According to myWor<f, ■ (,
That all the world may kftow’apd see
I am the living L o ith 1 : — ‘
Digitized by Google
Kow, I shall answer thee from these urords, and:
my Gospel. Know itiswritten—Castou$,thebonds-,
woman and her son, and take in the frqtofbr the son.
of the bondswoman shall not be heir Wj^-thespn of
the free. But know, Ye stand as bondsV;Ofn&tjfil
under the Fall, tied and bound with the chain;of
your sins. But nowI shall come to the purpose with
the Jews: they were as people in marriage bonds
with me, under theLaw; but whenI came amongst
them, to die for the transgression of man, to have,
my heel bruised, that SalapVhead might be bruised'
likewise, and so fulfil the Promisemade in the Fall,
know they all went from me ; and they broke off;
from their Prophets as they broke off from me.
So, like an adulterous woman, the Jews departed
at first, and became as bondsmen and bondswomen,;
an outcast nation. This was the first to the Jews ;
and they pocked and persecuted my disciples, that;
were underImt^h^p^who believed in me,as their
Prince and S’rinir •tir tfaqrij frn* people.
Here began the shadow,; cotpe to^
the substance, as I have tola thpe,;th* :end, is at
hand, that I am come to destroyall theworks ofthe
devil, and free you all from Satan’s power: And
know it is written, when the Son shall make you
free, ye shall be free indeed : and now I am come
to make you free. But how few believe the report!
how few rely on my Words and Promises, that I
must take away the sin of the world, and destroy;
all the works ofiAfcdevil, and so make my people
free! Here youl^rthe Gentiles like the Jews, still;
believing they must abide in Satan’s bonds, and Sa­
tan’s fetters, though they profess to be wedded to.
me by the Gospel: and yet they deny the fulfilment,
thereof And now mark the state of theJews, when
I came amongst them, how they had broken all my
laws; and what destruction had come upon them,,
before I came, a n d * s e e , how they continued,
in hardness of heart and unbelief after seeing my.
%
4
4
/i
J
Hi in
49
miracles at first, and the desfructloo of1Jerusalem,
as I told them. See ho# they hardened the Hearth
of their children ; therefore I compared them to at
treacherous woman, departed fVom her husband;
and so they are cast out. But now come to the'
Gentiles, and seehow many thousands aredeparted*
from my Gospel, by the Ariarts in your land • and£ ■
know, I have told thee the same, by the Calvinists:
for if I ordained men to be lost, before the founda*
tion of the world, then I must mock thehi by my'
Death, to say I came to die for man, and tO Save*
them that would' turn unto me. But who'caci turm
from my decrees, if I had fixed it so; Then I must;
mock men, by inviting them to turn unto me^
,and*
I would turn unto them, andhealtheirbacksliding^,
and love them freely ; for I etnitC' to- sCe^ atid^o*
save that which was1ldat^ Dl^' tef; cafl sinners' to*
repentance. So T ;my Gospel is*
wrested ; to WhW ovnry than to repent was mj£
command ; and will they sav, I mock men by sttcjy
warning? Sb here I have shewed'thee, from twtr
Classes of people, how thfeyare gone from my Gos- ,
pel; andhow fewacknowledge any visitation'ofmy*
Spirit; or believe I shall fulfil my Gospel. Here,.'
I tell tbee, men are gone from the Gospel, fVom its1
perfect truth, as the Jews were gone from die Law;*
tlierefore, I said, I should make an end; and now'
to make- an end I am- come. And*now I shall fix--
plain more clearlyOf the bOtidSVdiban and die free.'
'JSjfje bondwomen are thbse whcjjiptteve they shall'
abide for over under the bondageof the Falt^—that
all my promisesare forgotten—
‘that my Gospel will'
never be fulfilled—
-that:Satan’s power wiHnever be;
destroyed! These are the people that I shall cast
out; for they willperish through unbelief; and’be­
cause theywill reject knowledge, Iwill reject them ;
but those of the free must hdim^e, I shall free them*
of the Fall, and make thethffree from SatanVpowerl
And know, by faith; Sarahwas called the free wcK
man: but thou sayest, it was by marriage that Isaac
was called the son of the free; andyetltell thee,
it was by faith that Abraham obtained tne promise
of the son; and so I tell thee, it is by faith that
you must obtaih the fulfilment of the promise that
was said—In Isaac all the families of the earth
should be blessed : and that Promise d am now
come to fulfil, and to free the fall of women.”
Another Communication, given in 1797, from
Isaiah xlii. '9, 10—Behold the former things are
come to pass, and new things do I declare; before
they spring forth I tell you of them. Sing unto
the Lord a new song, and his praises from the
ends of the earth.
THE ANSWER OF THE SPIRIT,
“ Now Joanna, look and see;
Deep and plain's the mystery;
Behold the former things are come:—-
Jews and Gentiles, now as one,
Stumble all at. Prophecy ;
f And my Spirit all deny. , , >
* i This of old hath been foretold,
And now'tis come to pass; • ■
'* •;
Then wake and see the mystery; ‘ ^
'' 1' ’ So now judge face to face ; . . ' •
Am I a man, I now.demand, < \ ; -
. ■
:
- To waver or to change ?
Then Prophecies must die from me,
* .. _ . And let the world to range. ' - " -T -
• , For sure like thee, I say, men b e; •
They know not what they read; ' * •
‘ ' Nor can my thoughts with man agree,
For thou to be misled. r
But where's the man, I now demand, ., >
• Will own my Bible true, 1' /
And prove.Jhat I don't guide thy hand, f
And tell tftee what thou'st know ? * . . . , •
Before it came, it must be known,.
1 By me it was foretold ;
Then who's the me, let learned see ;
* J‘‘ The mysteries I'll unfold :
l ••- For^a new song you must begin—- ( '
i •Let Zionmow awake; * • ‘
For to the end 'tis surely come ;
My Sceptre I shall shake, '
> . Unless that men willnffw begin
To see their B^e&.cltiar, . , - . ; r ’
, And strive all natidns to dtoake*--- " \ '
They'll.find the* end is near. »
. As I began I'll make an end ; ^ ] /. r
It-was.with Prophecy; * ;.
-. -, - v -- /
49
Digitizechby Google
1
f! i v.ltr? it.!:
; , f 1 U’i. : ; ! .1;
• .. W ^ P W -% 8
*
*)! l..<-; i'.n ; : noa -xAi V
.»
its?;..:.!.,
t*rU$nVKLci ;:I - I>
;k*<
■
.; ■
•■
". !>:•' -
<
J•
'
tfitfcotiia‘
mark yoirte litme
fol i;,; '* ’ ■
Then where will ye be found
Into a land that’s not your own* ........*J
And pound ••-*1”
As ye are f o i l * * - :
Wherefai yc*&tem at* JjjW**lT(Wd ?
Now letnay
^ro.'.-.r ‘
; J
io <rbi:3
I have declared unto »ft me®, I am the light of
Ithe world, and the light to lighten every man that
cometh into the world; andne fta* yjjMceth in me
shall not walk in darkness ; for if ye, being evil,
know how to give good gifts to yoqr children, shall
I not give the Holy Spirit to them that ask it ? The
wind bloweth where it listeth, and ye hfjtr thesound
thereof, but cannot tell from whence it comes, or
whither it goeth; so isevewonetjmtis'bprnofthe
Spirit; but ye havegifts dlds^CMdh1
?from another;
now there arp dim s of giftljmfcttt by the dame
Spirit; for to ohe is given, byroe.Spirfc,the word
of wisdom; to another the word of knowledge, by
the sameSpirit; to anotherfejth, bythe same Spirit;
•and to another prophecy, and all by one Spirit;
for as many members make one body ;, so many
different discernments make one: chutfih. Now
where shall the head say, I have no need of the
foot ? or the foot say, I have no need of the head ?
follow after spiritual gifts; but rather that ye
prophesy for theedifyingofthe church; and quench
not the Spirit; nor despise prophecies; for the SpL-
i
t
♦
Digitized by Google J
‘
i^Nfl^.‘L
-The mar-
■ S S bB rlde hath
rit of prophecy *?.»
-■
riage of the Ldrrvli iSLQQffrres
made herself ready: the Spirit and tlhe Bride say,
Come ; let him that hearetn say, Come,—
“ ,NOW let the learned men appear,
And answer my demand;
If prophecies do perish here,
My Gospel cannot stand;
Then bastards ye must surely b e;
The Jews must be the Bride.
Now let your arguments appear,
How this can be applied:
The Bride is ;come, k must be known,
To make the Church the Bride;—*
But unto whom is the Spirit come,
For to bring back the tide ?
Or who’ll appear as she hath here ?—
And see her written hand.
The Spirit did to John appear—
Let all men understand,
That in the Spirit he was led,
Where he beheld the Bride—
The new Jerusalem His said ;
Then here the field is wide;
For in the vision^ early dawn
I brought that sight to thee;, _
Then sure my Kingdom’s hastening on—
And let the learned see, ' - :
It did appear. I’ll make it clear,
So perfect in thy dream s
The Father and the Son are come
To draw their swords on men;
As in tjie air,thy did appear,
The angels swift did fly 5
Then let them know the time is near,
Jerusalem is coming nigh,
’Tis said the Spirit and the Bride,
That bid you all to come;
But unto whom is this applied,
To say the Spirits come ?
Let all appear, and tell me where
They’ll prove the Spirit’s known ?
Since to deny is every Cry;
True knowledge there is none;
For who hath ascended up on high ?
Or how did I come down,
Fop to reveal, and not conceal,
These things were hastening on ?
* v
Then hoW I come it shall be Known—
The Spirit’s in the Bride,
tFor to aftijrfn all this would come,
And to her ’tis applied.
Biit as men’s arguments I know,
That some will now dispute,
The Church must be the Bride below^
1 mean to moke them mute \ 1 \ .
Digitized by Google
52
,, . T ' Unl^s the Church will all appear,
\ ‘ ' . And prove they this did know,
>i? w / ;. Before the shadow did appear,
v ■
. .' I say in ninety-two,
*'•......... And prove the Spirit from on high
' Did visit them so strong, ^
And told them dangers they were nigh,
Before the shadow came;
In dreams and visions did appear*
And warn'd in midnight sleep :
And in the day he did appear,
While they did silent weep-
Now if the Church can this affirm,
My Kingdom must appear;
Then sure the shadow may be gone,
The substance must be near;
For so 'twill be, you all will see,
I tell you in the end;
For perfect as it comes to thee,
My Spirit I shall send
To all below, they'll surely know.
And all may prophesy;
And strong my Spirit it shall go—
■ The time is drawing nigh ;
For when the marriage of the lamb
Doth every heart unite,
Like doves, I say, you all will fly,
And lamps all burning bright.
Now I shall clear the foolish here,
Or tell you who they be,
Who'll have no light to guide the night,
And they too late will see :
They are the men that now begin
To let their lamps go dry,
And say, that when we see *tis so,
3Tis time enough to fly ;
But then their fate will be too late ;
Because the wise will come,
And say they did their Lord expect,
And nowr he is welcome home. .
And welcome they shall be to me ;
Their faults I will blot out,
As thou didst blot the written word,f
Because thou hadst forgot;
The word I said thou didst forget,
But soon did call to mind ;
And perfect like it I shall act—
' Their errors I'll not find :
For those that for my Kingdom thirst,
They surely shall obtain;
Whose lamps are burning in their breasts,
4 They paradise shall gain.
And what to do you all shall know,
. To shun when danger's nigh ;
My Spirit shall before you go,
And tell you where to fly;*
r
!
■
*
Digitized by Google
For as the Star dothnow appear
And vou may see the mark;
Just so ’twill be when danger’s near;
I’ll leave none in the dark,
That wish to know where they shall go,
Believe that I’ll direct. .
Look to the mark, and then you’ll know;
For faith shall all protect.
Now let the learned men appear, *
Andjudge thy written hand,
And tell them how the mark came there,
And let them understand ;
But if they cannot understand,
' Or nothing there discern;
Then puzzling they will judge thy hand,
To see how I do warn; . ‘
Then I’ll begin in words more plain,
If they do give it up ; - *
For I shall condescend to men,
If they like men will stoop,
To own their knowledge is conceal’d,
But tell me what they think;
Then clear the mystery I’ll reveal,
For all is on.the brink.
Now Pomeroy here I mean to clear:
TteJ^arriage of the Lamb, %
He saja fh m e n the marriage were;
I will not him condemn;
But as a man I’ll now begin—- >.
In heaven it must take place;
Biit down to earth it sure must come, -
To wed the human race;
For all,must be wedded to me, .
Just as the Bride is herp;
And listen for the smalMill Voice,
And they shall find me near. .
Now ’tis applied that she’s the Bride,
To make the Gentiles free,
That Jews may know how things do go-— .,
The Law and Gospel see. *
This is the mark, though in the dark* *
’Tis kept from every eye,
That none ihigjitcome for to asstime—
Impostors they would fly ; .
And judgments then would sure begin
T o fall upon their heads;
Then the true Bride would fear to come,
And tremble to be led;
Because she’d fear,1that judjgments.near,
’Twas Satan in disguise.
Now let thy written hand appear;
The prudent must be wise, ; ,
And plainly see the mystery,
The time thou didst appear;
Then let the Church become the Bride,
And wish the Spirit near; ; .
Notnore ia thee they all will see v '
-
Digitized by
£ t
Than m thy friends abbufid;
And those that arfe thy helpers hfctd
Will in the end be crown’d
In glorv bright} in robes of white \
For Brides I’ll make yon ad.
One star can never give the light,
IFallthe rest Should fail.
So all begin, His time to shinfe;
For night is hastening on:
The evening star doth now appeiri
And know the night is come.
Now as to pride, throw all aside ;
’Tis time For all to shine.
But do not say, if she’s the Bride,
She’s higher than mankind 5
’Tis but.the mark His growing dark;
She’s not aboVe the rest;
£/er midnight doth come oh.,
In heaven my standard it is fix’d*
To be a guide to man;
So rise and shine? it is high time;
The clouds will gather fast:
Now mark the glittering of the star's,
' And see how all is plac’d.”
ThefollowingCommunication was given in 1798,
in answer to my Brother’s saying he did not know
from whence my writings came; and said, he would
not prophesy for the world, to say it was from the
Lord. To which I was answered—The Lord did all
things by Man; and though he made the dry bones
live, in the vision to Ezekiel; yet h e ordered Eze­
kiel to prophesy on them, as though the thing was
done by him, which you will see in Ezekiel xxxvii.
TH E ANSWER OF T H E SPIRIT.
(t I told the man to prophesy,
And bid the winds to come
For to give life, and bring tnen forth;
And so ’tis said ’twas done.
Then now to men I mean to come;
Fot they must prophesy;
And I will cautfe the winds to corne;
And power to man I’ll give.
The four winds shall now appear,
And every quarter shake;
Before that I have ended here,
I’ll make the dumb to Speak:
I’ll give thetn breath ; tHlbrihg thertl forth \
But it must be done by
■
*
Digitized by
AS '
• I bid Ezekiel prophesy,
And make the dry bones come *
I bid the man tp do the whole;
And all was done by he ;—
But will thy Brother stand the poll,
And prove it was not me
% • That made the map to do the thing?
Could he have done it here ?
J It is a hidden mystery,
That in the end Fll clear;
For as the shadow then was seen,
' The substance now must drop,
. ’Tis man must clear all mysteries herein*
And Israel now may hope:
For without Man it was not done;
And now ’t shall be the same:
Your full redemption cannot come,
’Till Law and Gospel join.
For on these two, you all shall know,
Do Law and Prophets hang.
See what thou’st done, the thing is plain ;
They hang upon the wo^ d ;
And in the end, >
tis my intend
For all to know the Lord
Hath'by a dmpie Woman’s hand
So clearly freed the Fall.
• But can you say, ’twas done by she,
Who hath no power at ah,
No greater than the prophet had
To bring the dead to life ?
And all shall see the mystery;
For now I’ll end the strife :
For enmity, you all shall see,
I plac’d between the two,
. The Woman and the Serpent’s seed-,-*-
I’ll brings all to your view:
So let the Serpent’s seed appear,
The Woman’s seed shall come,
And deeper than philosophy,
Was ever known by man.
For when on man I cast a sleep
. I took from him a bone,
That afterwards did make him weep-***
' The mysteries are unknown;
» But when I came to take man’s form,
No bone there could be broke ;
Then when I claim, Man for my own,
I must the whole unlock;
That is to see the mystery,
' How Men I will make whole;
‘ And perfect they shall rise like me,
And Satan’s kingdom fall.
The Woman, see, shall now be free—
Then now behold the bone
That lives so strong byfaith in me^
With courage stands alone.
Digitized by Google
Can it be clcine by her weak hand?
Then heavens must silent be,
To let a Woman so explain,
And say she writes by me.
So cast a blame, I say, on none:
If thorns do not appear,
Unto the root I bid you go,
And prove that thorns are here.
Before you come or e'er condemn
The words that here are spoke,
You'll find the judge is at the door,
And will the whole unlock:
For every heart to me is known ;
And every cause I’ll try;
The equal balance now must come
To judge the Prophecy.
If it be of God, it will be know’d,
By judge and jury plac'd; ,
The Mighty Counsellor must be known
To fill the Woman’s breast, ,
To have her Trial to come on,
In justice to appear,
And give herself up whole to Man,
For to condemn or clear.
For since that earth’s foundation M.ood,
Such thing was never known—
• The Prince of Peace shall bring release ;
The Counsellor now is come;
And mighty he will surely be ;
You’ll find him full of might;
And then my judge and jury see— 1
I’ll make them sons of lignt.
So see the bone stand now alone,
And see if it be broke;
If it be not, when to the poll,
Judge now your happy lot.
For to regain, ye sons of men,
When I the eone return,
You all will see the mystery,
And tears ofjoy will come.——— *
Arise and shine, the light is truly come ;
Now sing for joy, O thou enlighten’d land *
The glory of the Lord is risen nere;
And to the Bride his coming doth declare.
Though darkness o’er the earth will sore abound ;
Yet, thou enlighten’d landt his praise resound^
Tiie glory of the Lord shall in thee rise,
And his salvation shall be in the wise;
Conquering, to conquer I will now begin; •
Rejoice, ye lands, with joy and gladness sing. '
No more in Bethlehem doth the Infant lay,
But now in heaven his glory doth display:
No more the Shepherds shall come from afar ;
Nor in the stable seek to find him here.
56
Digitized by Google
# ►
*' *
*
)■
t *
I ■
AT
Sfir now the wisdom shall be in the wifp;
And to the heavens your voices you must raise.
No more you say the despised Gaul&
an ;
But in his jFathbr’s Kingdom he is seen;
Then now awake, O thou enlighten’d land,
And humbly pray his kingdom^to come down.
Yourselves now in the manger you must place?
If you will know his true and perfect grace;
No more the angel shall she virgin warn,
To flee from danger to another land.
The dangers now are turn’d another way;
It is in Heaven he will his works display.
No more the Infant will be had in scorn,
Butjoyfully receiv’d where he if born :
It was the angels brought the joyful news
Unto the shepherds, that they then did chuse,
And bid them unto Bethlehem to go,
And in the stable they would find it so.
A place for horses, where the Son of Goto
Unto mankind his coming first was know’d ;
And as the horses dotthe harness wear,
So let them know my chariot’s coming near;
The heavenly visions shall to all be known,
That in my chariot I am coining down.
N o mor^jn swaddlings doth the Infant lay;
B ut nownirit inAlpry’s bright array;
No more the meanness of m s s c o r n ;
J?or now a Prince I will to all be known;
And a true Saviour I will sUrely be
To those that put their trust alone in ms*-^
A Prince ana Saviour, and %conquering KiNp.,
So all the earth my praises they shall sing;
And all the earth my praises shall resound—
The horses in the 6table may he found—
The chariot’s ready, standing at the door—
The Shepherds warn’d— and I shall say no more.*
I have given the Signs of the Times from the
truth of the prophecies, whieh have been revealed
to me; and the truths that have followed, wbitfrl
have given to the world at large; but now I shad
come further to the Scriptures: And, in the first
place, let them mark Psaim n. 7, 8. And then
mark Isaiah ix. 6. St. Luke i\. 11, 14. Here’are
Scriptures united together, from the Law and the
Gospel, to prove -that Christ was born for us, W
bring in his everlasting Kingdom ofPeace ; but will
men say, they were' then fulfilled ? Did not our
Saviour tell us, if we discern his Gospel through,
that the fulfilment was d$ his second coming, when
‘ - . -
Digitized by b o o g i e
lie comes in the cloudswith power and great glory£
T{ien lie telleth us to lift up our heads; for our re­
demption then draweth nigh: then he will be the;
Lamb of God, to take away the sins of the world.
And mark what is said in Acts i. 11, and iii. 20,21.
As I have already enumerated so many scripture,
proofs of our Saviour’s coming again, to fulfil the
Chapters, and the Second Psalm that I mentioned,
I need not enlarge on that head ; and asI have told
the readers, from the signs in the Gospel, the truth
of my Prophecies, and the Signs of the Times,
which are before us, how the whole is nowtogether,
I need not to enumerate further, but point out to the
serious readers from Isaiah ii. xi. xxv.lxvi. and Re­
velation xx. totheend. Nowifmen weighedallthese
things together, with my visitation in ninety-twO,
being then told that theSecondPsplmdmvdd be ful­
filled, and before any ofthesethings appeared that
I told of$henii So here I can prove I have given to
the world true Signs of the Times, that the K i n g ­
d o m ofCHBisTisathand, that thekingdoms ofthis
world shall become the Kingdoms of the d i v i n g
G o d . ,
And as I have shewn to the public how these
judgments, .so long threatened, are now allowed
by the Religious Society, and other writers, to be
coming upon us, and partly felt; the same is Tal­
lowed by the Bishops, in the Prayers for the Fast.,
“That thfese heavy judgments our manifold provo­
cations have justly deserved, and acknowledged
.they have not learned righteousness from the judg­
ments, which are in the earththerefore they have
wisely, put in. a petition, “ That men may repent
of the..evils, which have brought down the just
judgments,of God upon ns.” Thus it is allowed
by all sects and parties, the bishops and 'clergy,
and,other different sects of. religion, who profess
to be teachers and pastors of their flock—that the
threatened judgments, a ^ upon us. So whethejr
they will hear, or whether they will forbear, to
3*
Digitized by Google
listen to the warnings, •they ’are all come to ac­
knowledge the tmth ; and I am sorry to say, it
is a true observation made in the Prayers.for the
Fast, that these jndgments have not tamed men
' from the' evil of their ways ; and which is’the truth
of my prophecies, that they would not turn,' be­
fore they came to be convinced of the glorious
change that will take place, when it is the desire
of every heart for the power of evil to be destroy*
ed ; that righteousness might run down our streets
as a flood, and the fear of the Lord as a mighty
stream; that righteousness and truth, might. me£t
together, -and love and peace kiss each other;
Men ntust be first convinced wherein true happi­
ness lieth, and that the end of all things is at hand,
before any change will take place in men’s minds;
for they are like the anvil that is hardened to the
stroket atsd so it was said, they would co’
ntinue
until they areconvitiegd-that all these evils come
irom sin, and are desiriugfor the root of evil to be
destroyed, .which is promised in'the Scriptures of
Truth. When the peaceable-Kingdom of the Lord
is brought in, then the power of evil must be del-
■stroyed; and it is by feeling the effects thereof, and
being convinced a change will take place, that wiH
change men’s minds, to wish for that happy periods
. Now I shall come to another observation, which
is concerning an error amongst the Believers, who
simplysuppose, that as soon as they believe this
^glorious change will take place for man that their
sorrows and distresses must be done away, without
considering that, while there are national judgr
rnents and national afflictions, we mustite uhder
national sufferings. And this we may discern, hath
beenineveryageof theworld, if we trace the records
of the Bible through. Letusturn backbur thoughts
to the beginning: when the Lord sent Moses: to
deliver the children of .Israel from the handsl of
Pharaoh, 'and the stubborn and unbelieving Jews
provoked the Lord in the wildertress, to prolong
59
Digitized by
their stay, and bring down hisjust judgments ppo)|
them, Moses, Aaron, Joshua, and Caleb, were suf­
ferers with them; and yet we find in the Book of
Joshua, howhc delivered Joshua and Caleb, in the
end; and what wondrous works were wrought by
Joshua to fulfil the promise made to Moses in the ‘
land of Egypt, which he by faith and patience post J
sessed at the last, though he Was a sufferer so marly
years, by the provocation and murmuring of the
Children of Israel. The same we mav see again in
the Book 'of E sthtr; when the Jews had provoked
v the Lord to anger, thathe destroyed their kings and
their city, we see the just suffered with the UJHpst;
and they were carried away captive, and suffered
for a while ; and yet we seein wnat WondrOus mam- '
net the Lord worked their deliverance in the end;
by bringing Esther to the crown, and changing the
heart of the king,' to bring tbeovtfCn their enemas^
that- they had proposed' to bring on the Jews ; that
at the time they expected to be.destroyed, tfie Lord
worked in Esther’s heart to ehaiigfe the mind of the
king r though we must ah know, it was the Lord
himself that worked with her, or tbekihg’shfeari
fcrautd not have been changed* But we!see through­
out the Bible, how the lord makfea use of instnp
xhehts in his creatures, to work deliverance for his
people: the same wemay see in the Book ofDaniel:
when the Jews had provoked the Lord* that they
were all carried, away into Babylon, and so. many
thousands destroyed, we see that the jdst suffered-
with the unjust, and all were carried aivay captive;
that were not slain by the edge of the sword, or the
famine; and yet we see in what wonderful manner
the Lord worked for his faithful-people in the end.
Inreadmg through the prophets* we findthere weife
aome-who believed in the prophets, and. wished to
persuade others; and though they had net a speedy
deliverance, hat suffered for the stubbornness a
provocation of^ie others, who provoked the.La
y f tbetp niockH%the prophets, to hiring:dpoh fchojt
Digitized by Google
%
aU the judgments that he had threatened; yet we
see; in the end, in what manner the Lord deliver^
ed his faithful followers, and how h e promoted
them to honour, after they had endured with faith
and patience, and allowed the justice of God’S
judgments. We see how the Lord worked in the
hearts of heathen kings to new-build Jerusalem
again; and restore the Jews to their own land*
And. now let us come to the Gospel: we know that
, in the time of judgments, it is said all would be
sufferers; for iniquity would abound ; and the love
of many would wax cold; in the time of tempts.*
tions many would fall away ; but it was tliey who
endured to the end would be saved. But if a pre­
sent deliverance was to come to believers, and such
miracles were wrought, that they had no difficul­
ties to go through, in the midst of national judg-
itKutr, then the Bible and my writings could not
join together to be of Goth because the Scriptures
assure us, that trials of every kind will come to
believers before the end; for as all must grow to­
gether till the harvest, so all must suffer together
till the harvest, when the Lord comes to free his
suffering friends, who have been longing for the
earning of their Lord ; but had they no sorrows to
go through, then they had nothing to endure; for
weremen delivered fromeverysorrow, assoonasthey
believed, then they could not be tried as gold in the
fire; <
neither could their faith and patience be made
mention ofinthe ScripturesofTrutn. Therefore it is
a mistaken notion in believers tojudgethat miracles
'mustbewronght forthem inthetimeofaffliction, that
they shall not feel any distresses inthe time ofjudg­
ments*whenwearesurrounded witheverysufferingas
hsinfulnation; and distresses and difficultieswehear
of op every side, perfectly as ourSaviourtold us, the
end would be distresses and perplexities of nations;
therefore lie warns us, in these times the love of
many would wax cold, and many^ould fall away.
And it is now easily accounted for, why these words
61
Digitized by b o o g i e
werespoken; because I see, among many believers,;,
they expected wonders-to be:wrought for their de­
liverance, that they might not suffer with the unbe­
lievers ; but finding these wonders, do not appear,
their love waxes cold, and I fear,'they will not
endure to the end; for many grow tired and faint by.
the way.'. This caution ! amgiving to the believers,
as I find many have taken mistaken 'notions into
their heads, to judge, if they believe that the King­
dom of Christ is at hand, and that these.wars and
tumults, distresses and perplexities, will torn in the
end to bring in the glorious amipeacfeable.Kingdora
of our God and his Christ, and that our redemption
is now drawing near, many judge, from this belief,
they fnust bedelivered before the time, without con­
sidering, in the beginning, ,as it is.with the just, so
with the unjust,, all at first are sufferers, together^
but the different reward is imlbe-efitT. As it Is with
the saint and sinner, Are often see many prophane;.
hardened, and wicked men go through this world
with less sorrows than the saints ; so we must look
beyond the grave, to see.the different end. of them
both; and so wemust look beyond the storm,.which
we have to go through, before vve pan expect to see
the end of,any reward to those.Who .are. longing
for ♦he coming of their Xord. The clearest way I
can point out, to.shew.the difference in.the believ­
ers and the unbelievers, is.to place a simple, parable
•beforethem. Suppose a company pursuing ajourney
together, and dreadful stormsand tempestscomeon,
and they were all compelled to pursue theirjourney;
then they must all suffer alike in theirjourney; but
if one part of the company,was assured that at bis
journey’s end, he had great prospects of happiness,
and great deliverance from every trouble at the end
of his journey .; and the other part of the company
expected, none, only thought it might be worse at
the end of the jqvirney. Which, judge ye, could
best go throujjdi the storm, he;whose faith was
strong within, apd his eye fixed tQ tbe end ,pf lu$
6*
Digitized by L i O O Q l e
'joutfney,. knowing that there all sorrows must end;
or he tbat;had no hopes at all, only fearing that the
stormy journey would bring him worsestormsat the
end? Would he not he ready.to siuk by the way,
and say, he could not go through the storm, for he
.should have nothing to comfort him' at the end of
his journey ?while the others were kept up by faith
and love of the joy at the end : and so it is written
,oftrue believers, there isjoy in believing that blunts
the storm to them; and a persevering love.will carry
jmen through many difficulties to the object they
haye/in view. And so I.may say of believers, if their
love is strong, fpr. the coining of their Lord, that
every evil ofsin may be dohe.away, it will blunt the
edge .of all afflictions,, and be ivsupport tlnoughthe
storm, .which.it is.iinpossiblefar men to shun; one
way or other, allmustfeel it; but the advantage to
TjtJievers is tbE>1^ 4rtLcp^fort they have to:look to
the .end, ;to haveithe pngeiarwinw^while we are
rpnrting the raieewjth difficulty,.that we may gain
the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus;
forgetting the. things that are behind, and,pressing
forward to.the mark, which by every sign is set be­
fore us : and know, the just must live by faith;
when difficulties and dangers are before us, faith
must be our anchor, to look forward to the promL •
ses; but if we expect miracles to be immediately^
wrought, we cannot say that the Scriptures are ful­
filled m us. . And I. wish the believers to consider
what I went through for ten years, without anyone
to relieve my burden; but rather adding to my load, *
before any deliverance came to me. So if men seri­
ously considered .what I went through in the begin­
ning, and no .miracles were wrought for me, they
would not expect such wondrous miracles to be
wrought for them, as I am sorry to hear many dp,
without.callingreason.toi their assistance^ and that
causes many to murmur and faint by'the way ; but
when weconsider,thejudgmedts that a'rein ourland,
and the distresses on eyery side,and the-great bles-
63
Digitized by b o o g i e
94
‘
sings tba±-areheld-oiftto us', whatthe t-ord is about
to do for us?we ought to rejoice in the God of our
salvation, and thank him for his mercies, in giving
ns warning, that he is coming to seek and to savea
lost u oriel, and to redeem us from the evils of the
Fall, thatwemay not forever lie under the bondage
of sin And Satan. So we ought to rejoice the time is
aomiaar, that the chain is to be broken from allthose
who are now looking for the God of their salvation
in heart and life. This is a comfort to every believer,
that these sorrows will not always last; but the un­
believers have no prospect, because they do not
know the days of their visitation; therefore It is
written, their Hearts will fail them for very troubles,
while the just will live by faith: and this hath been
n greafcomfort to me, wnen myheartached, iti-1-799
time wasawne&r, that these evils would be -done
away, which sin is the cause of; and this ought to
be the comfort- of every believer.
Taken,;from Joanna Southcott’s mouth, by me,
Witness,; Jan e Townlev. Ann Underwood.
■ tn drier tb' $r6ve to the world that there is no deceit
in Joanna Southcott’sform er writings, she has taught me
' to read her hand-writing: so that I have copied a ll the
^ Communications in this booh myself, which are takjtn fn fm
them. '
February 7, 1806. Ann U ndErwood.
■
’ 139, bear'SlMHOibory Cimit, High Holbuni; *W
. Toaelt, Chapel Place,
Duke Street,, Westminster Road, Southwark; also by ,W. Stwonps,
• <3andy Lube ; and the jM
Iss Evs^eigiis,,!^. SidwalRs, Exeter; S. Hibts,
£eeds; Mipw^ ton, York; and Jams* Light, Cotemtrj Street*
Stourbridge,*Woise$tersbire.
and 1800, to see
had not power to re
(Price >One Shilling and Threepence
£e\ktbUed at stationershaxl.J
Digitized by Google
