{"name":"The Magus Or Celestial Intelligencer","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1801__barrett___the_magus_or_celestial_intelligencer.pdf","mytitle":"The Magus Or Celestial Intelligencer","mylang":"de"}
THE
MAGUS,
OR
CELESTIAL IJVTELLIGEJVCER ;
BEING
A COMPLETE SYSTEM OF
OCCULT PHILOSOPHY.
IN THREE BOOKS:
Containing the Antient and Modern Practice of the Cabaliftic Art, Natural and Celeflial Magic, &c. ;
fhewing the wonderful
Effects that may be performed by a Knowledge of the
Celestial Influences, the occult Properties of Metals, Herbs, and Stones,
AND THE
APPLICATION OF ACTIVE TO PASSIVE PRINCIPLES.
EXHIBITING
THE SCIENCES OF NATURAL MAGIC;
Alchymy, or Hermetic Philosophy ;
ALSO
THE NATURE, CREATION, AND FALL OF MAN;
His natural and fupernatural Gifts ;
the magical Power inherent in the Soul, <Xrc. ;
with a great Variety of rare Experiments
* in Natural Magic:
THE CONSTELLATORY PRACTICE, or TALISMANIC MAGIC ;
The Nature of the Elements, Stars, Planets, Signs, &c. ; the Conftfuction and Compofition of all Sorts of Magic Seals,
Images, Rings, Glatfes, &c. ;
The Virtue and Efficacy of Numbers, Characters, and Figures, of good and evil Spirits.
MAGNETISM,
AND CABAUSTICAL OR CEREMONIAL MAGIC;
.In which the fecret Myileries of the Cabala are explained ; the Operations of good and evil Spirits ;
all Kinds of Cabaliftic Figures,
Tables, Seals, and Names, with their Ufe, &c.
THE TIMES, BONDS, OFFICES, AND CONJURATION OF SPIRITS.
TO WHIOH IS ADDED
Biographia Antiqua-, or the Lives of the most eminent Philosophers, Magi, 8^c.
The Whole illustrated with a great Variety of
CURIOUS ENGRAVINGS, MAGICAL AND CABALISTICAL FIGURES, Sc.
BY FRANCIS BARRETT, F.R.C.
Professor of Chemistry, natural and occult Philosophy, the Cabala, &c. &c.
LONDON
:
PRINTED FOR LACKINGTON, ALLEN, AND CO., TEMPLE OF THE MUSES,
FINSBURY SQUARE.
1801.
PREFACE
IN this V/ork, which we have written chiefly for the in-
formation of thofe who are curious and indefatigable in their enquiries into
occult knowledge, we have, at a vaft labour and expence, both of time and
charges, collected whatfoever can be deemed curious and rare, in regard to the
fubjedt of our fpeculations in Natural Magic—the Cabala—Celeftial and
Ceremonial Magic—Alchymy—and Magnetifm ;
and have divided it into
two Books, fub-divided into Parts : to which we have added a third Book,
containing a biographical account of the lives of thofe great men who were
famous and renowned for their knowledge ;
lhewing upon whofe authority this
Science of Magic is founded, and upon what principles. To which we have
annexed a great variety of notes, wherein we have impartially examined the
probability of the exigence of Magic,
both of the good and bad fpecies, in
the earlieft, as well as in the latter, ages of the world. We have exhibited
a vaft number of rare experiments in the courfe of this Treatife, many of
which, delivered in the beginning, are founded upon the Ample application of
aftives to paflives ;
the others are of a higher fpeculation.
In our hiftory of the lives of Philofophers, &c. we have omitted nothing-
that can be called interfiling or fatisfaftory. We have taken our hiftorical
charadfters from thofe authors moft deferving of credit ;
we have given an out-
line of the various reports tradition gives of them ;
to which are annexed
notes, drawn from the moft probable appearance of truth, impartially defcrib-
ing their characters and actions ; leaning neither to the fide of thofe who
doubt every thing, nor to them whofe credulity takes in every report to be
circumftantially true.
b At
Yin PREFACE.
being- ofFenfive to God or man, that the very root or ground of all magic takes
its rife from the Holy Scriptures, viz.
—“ The fear of God is the beginning of
all wifdom j”—and charity is the end : which fear of God is the beginning
of Magic ;
for Magic is wifdom, and on this account the wife men were called
Magi. The magicians were the firft Chriftians ;
for, 'by their high and excel-
lent knowledge, they knew that that Saviour which was promifed, was now-
bom man—that Chrift was our Redeemer, Advocate, and Mediator ;
they
were the firft to acknowledge his glory and majefty ;
therefore let no one be
offended at the venerable and facred title of Magician—a title which every
wife man merits while he purfues that path which Chrift himfelf trod, viz.
humility, charity, mercy, falling, praying, &c. ;
for the true magician is the
trueft Chriftian, and neareft difciple of our bleffed Lord, who fet the example
we ought to follow •, for he fays—“ If ye have faith, &c.
”
and “ This kind
comes not by falling and prayer, &c. and ‘‘Ye lhall tread upon fcorpions,
&c. and again, “ Be wife as ferpents, and harmlefs as doves.”—Such in-
ftru6lions as thefe are frequently named, and given in many places of the Holy
Scriptures. Likewife, all the Apoftles confefs the power of working miracles
through faith in the name of Chrift Jefus, and that all wifdom is to be attain-
ed through him ;
for he fays, “ I am the light of the world !”
We have thought it advifeable, likewife, to inveftigate the power of num-
bers, their fympathy with the divine names of God ;
and, feeing the whole
univerfe was created by number, weight, and meafure, there is no fmall effi-
cacy in numbers, beeaufe nothing more clearly reprefents the Divine Effence
to human underftanding than numbers ;
feeing that in all the Divine holy
names there is Hill a conformity of numbers, fo that the conclufion of this our
Firft Book, forms a complete fyftem of mathematical magic ;
in which I have
collected a vail number of curious feals from that famous magician Agrippa,
and likewife from Paracelfus, noting them particularly, as I have found them
correfpondent with true fcience on experiment.
The Second Book forms a complete treatife on the myfteries of the Cabala
and Ceremonial Magic ;
by the ftudy of which, a man (who can feparate
himfelf from material obje£ls, by the mortification of the fenfual appetites—
abftinence
PREFACE. IX
abftinence from drunkennefs, gluttony, and other beftial paflions, and who
lives pure and temperate, free from thofe atftions which degenerates a man
to a brute) may become a recipient of Divine light and knowledge ;
by which
they may forefee things to come, whether to private families, or kingdoms, or
ftates, empires, battles, victories, &c. ;
and likewife be capable of doing much
good to their fellow-creatures : fuch as the healing of all diforders, and aftifting
with the comforts of life the unfortunate and diftreffed.
We have fpoken largely of prophetic dreams and vifions in our Cabaliftic
Magic, and have given the tables of the Cabala, fully fet down for the infor-
mation of the wife ;
fome few moft fecret things being referved by the Author
for his pupils only, not to be taught by publication.
The Third Book forms a complete Magical Biography, being collected
from moft antient authors, and fome fcarce and valuable manufcripts ;
and
which has been the refult of much labour in acquiring. Therefore, thofe who
with to benefit in thofe ftudies, muft lhake off the drowftnefs of worldly vanity,
all idle levity, floth, intemperance, and luft ;
fo that they may be quiet,
clean, pure, and free from every diftradtion and perturbation of mind, and
worthily ufe the knowledge he obtains from his labours.
Therefore, my good friend, whofoever thou art, that defireft to accomplifh
thefe things, be but perfuaded firft to apply thyfelf to the Eternal Wisdom,
entreating him to grant thee underftanding, then feeking knowledge with dili-
gence, and thou flialt never repent thy having taken fo laudable a refolution,
but thou fhalt enjoy a fecret happinefs and ferenity of mind, which the world
can never rob thee of.
Wifhing thee every fuccefs imaginable in thy ftudies and experiments,
hoping that thou wilt ufe the benefits that thou mayeft receive to the honour of
our Creator and for the profit of thy neighbour, in which exercife thou fhalt
ever experience the fatisfadtion of doing thy duty *, remember our inftruc-
tions—to be ftlent : talk only with thofe worthy of thy communication—do
not give pearls to fwine ;
be friendly to all, but not familiar with all ;
for
many are, as the Scriptures mention—wolves in fheep clothing.
FRANCIS BARRETT,
TABLE OF CONTENTS.
Advertisement .
Introduction
Of the Influences of the Stars
The Ufe and Abufe of Aftrology, &c..
An Oration to God
Of Natural Magic in general
The Firft Principles of Natural Magic. .
Page.
. i
• 3
. ib.
• 4
- 9
. to
' J3
Page.
Chap. IX. Of the Mixtures of Natural Things
one with another, and the Production of
Monfiers 41
Chap. X. Of the Art of Fafcinarion, Binding,
Sorceries, Magical Confections, Lights, Can-
dles, Lamps, &c. being the conclufion of
Natural Magic 44
BOOK I.—PART I.
Chap. I. Natural Magic defined; of Man ;
his
Creation, Divine Image, and Fall ;
and of the
fpiritual and magical Virtue of the Soul. . f . . ib.
Chap. II. Of the Wonders of Natural Magic,
difplayed in a Variety of' fympathetic and oc-
cult Operations, in Animals, Minerals, and'
Vegetables, treated of mifcellaneoufly . ...->. 24
Of the Serpent 28
Chap. III. OfAmulets, Charms, and Enchant-
ments ;
an Amulet for the Flux of Blood. .
. 30
Chap. IV. Of UnCtions, Philters, Potions, &c. 32
Their Magical Virtue - 33
Chap. V. Of Magical Sufpenfions and Alliga-
tions ;
ihewing by 'what power they are effica-
cious in Natural Magic. 34-
Chap. VI. Of Antipathies 35
Chap. VII. Of the occult Virtues of Things
which are inherent in them only in their Lives,
and fuch as remain in them after Death 37
Chap. VIII. Of thewondetful Virtues offome
Kinds of precious Stones. 39
ALCHYMY.
The Sec-^t of the Philofophers’ Stone 51
Epifile to .lufeus 53
Epiftle to the Pie-vder. ...
55
Of Alchymy, and its Divine Origin 56
Difcovered to Man by Uriel ib.
Zoroafler made Gold from the Seven Metals. . ib.
Zoroafter was the Father of Alchymifis. ..... ib.
The Authors who have wrote upon it ib.
The comparifon of Alchymifis 57
What an Adept is ib.
Van Helmont’s Account of Alchymy 58
Kircher’s Account of Alchymifis ib.
The Defcription of the Philofophers’ Stone. . . ib.
Account of a real Tranfmutation 59
Account of Flammel, the Alchymift ib.
Hiftory of Butler’s Univerfal Medicine ib.
What is not univerfally underfiood generally
referred to the Black Art 63
Of the Preparation neceflary to qualify a Man
for the Search of the Philofophers’ Stone. . . 64
Of the Prima Materia ib.
Ten
XU TABLE OF CONTENTS.
Page.
Ten Leffons, teaching the Tranfmutation of bafe
Metals into Gold 64
Leflon XI. XII. XIII. and XIV. teaching the
Manner of extracting the Prana Materia of
the Lapis Philosophorum ;
and the Ufe it is of
in purifying imperfedl Metals, to Change
them into good Gold 68
f \
PART II.
Chap. I. Of the Four Elements, and their
Natural Qualities 73
Chap. II. Of the Properties and wonderful Na-
ture of Fire and Earth 75
Chap. III. Of the Water and Air 77
Chap. IV. Of compound or mixed Bodies ;
in
•what Manner they relate to the Elements
and how the Elements correfpond to the Souls,
Senfes, and Difpofitions of Men 81
Ciiap. V. That the Elements are in Stars,
Devils, Angels, Intelligences, and in God
himfelf 83
Chap. VI. That the Wifdom of God works by
fecond Caufes is proved beyond Difpute in
this Chapter 85
Chap. VII. Of the Spirit of the World 87
Chap. VIII. Of the Seals and Characters im-
prefTed by Celeftials upon Natural Things. . . 88
Chap. IX. Of the Virtue and Efficacy of Per-
fumes ;
and to what Planets they are attributed 89
Chap.' X. Of the Compofition of Perfumes at-
tributed to the Planets 92
General Fumes. of the Planets 93
Chap. XI. Of the magical Virtue of Rings.. . 94
Chap. XII. That the Paffions of the Mind are
affifted by Celeftials ;
and how neceffiiry the
conftancy of the Mind is in every Work. ... 96
Chap. XIII How a Man’s Mind may be joined
with the Celeftial Spirits and Intelligences, and
with them imprefs wonderful Virtues upon in-
ferior Things 97
Page.
Chap. XIV. Shewing the Neceffity of Mathe-
matical Knowledge ; and of the great Power
and Efficacy of Numbers in the Conftrudlion
of Talifmans, &c
gg
Chap. XV. The great Virtues of Numbers, as
well in natural as fuper-natural Things 102
Chap. XVI. Of the Scales of Numbers; the
Scale of Unity
Chap. XVII. Of the Number Two, and the
Scale
Chap. XVIII. Of the Number Three, and the
Scale
Chap. XIX. Ofthe Number Four, and the Scale
Chap. XX. Of the Number Five, and the Scale
Chap. XXI. Of the Number Six, and the Scale
Chap. XXII. Of the Number Seven, and the
Scale
Chap. XXIII. Of the Number Eight, and the
Scale
Chap. XXIV. Of the Number Nine, and the
Scale
Chap. XXV. Ofthe Number Ten, and the two
Scales
Chap. XXVI. Of the Numbers Eleven and
Twelve, with the Scale of the Number Twelve
Chap. XXVII. Of the Notes of the Hebrews
and Chaldeans, and other Charadlers ufed by
Magicians
Chap. XXVIII. The magical Tables of the
Planets, their Form and Virtue ; with the
Divine Names, Intelligences, and Spirits that
are fet over them
Chap. XXIX. Of the Obfervation of the Ce-
leftials neceffary in all magical Works
Chap. XXX. When the Planets are mod power-
ful
Chap. XXXI. Obfervations on the fixed Stars,
with their Names and Nature
Chap. XXXII. Of the Sun and Moon, and
their magical Considerations
Chap. XXXIII. Ofthe Twenty-eight Manfions
of the Moon, and their Virtues
103
104
106
105
•H
115
"7
128
‘30
'3z
140
142
14#
*49
>5°
r
5 2
'53
Chap.
TABLE OF CONTENTS. X1U
Page.
Chap. XXXIV. That fom_e artificial Things,
as Images, Seals, and the like, may derive
Virtue from the Celeftial Bodies 157
Chap. XXXV. Of the Images of the Zodiac ;
whatVirtues, being engraven, they receive from
the Stars 158
Chap. XXXVI. Of the Images of the Seven
Planets; Images of Saturn 159
Chap. XXXVII. Of the Images of Jupiter. . 160
Chap. XXXVII L Images of Mars 161
Chap. XXXIX. Images of the Sun 162
Chap. XL. Images of Venus ib.
Chap. XLI. Images of Mercury 163
Chap. XLII. Images of the Moon 164
Chap. XLIII. Images of the Dragon’s Head
and Dragon’s Tail ib.
Fage.
Chap. XLIV. Images of the Twenty-eight
Manfions of the Moon 165
Chap. XLV. That human Imprecations natu-
rally imprefs their Powers upon external
Things ; and how Man’s Mind, through a
Degree of Dependencies, afcends into the In-
telligible World, and becomes like the more
fublime Spirits and Intelligences 168
Chap. XLVI. The Conclufion of Talifmanic
Magic ;
in which is included the Key of all
that has been written upon the Subjedt ; fhew-
in the Practice of Images, and the Compofi-
tion ofTalifmans, by way of Example ;
and,
likewife, the neceffary Qbfervations of the
Celeftials requifite for the Perfedtion of all Ta-
lifmanic Operations .- 172
BOOK II. —PART I.
MAGNETISM 3
Chap. I Of the Magnetic or Attradtive Faculty 4
Chap. II. Of Sympathetic Medicines 8
Chap. III. Of the Magnetic or Sympathetic
Unguent ;
the Power of Sympathy, Armary,
Unguent ; and curing of Wounds, Ecftacies,
Witchcraft, Mummies, &c 9
Chap. IV. Of the Weapon Salve 12
Chap. V. Of the Imaginative Power, and the
Magnetifm of the Natural Spirits, Mummial
Attradlion, Sympathies of Aftral Spirits, and
their Bodies, upon which is founded the whole
Art of Necromancy 13
Chap. VI, Of Witchcraft in partidular 18
Chap. VII. Of the Vital Spirit 20
Chap. VIII. Of the Magical Power, &c 22
Chap. IX. Of exciting or ftirring up the Ma-
gical Virtue
Chap. X. Of the Magical Virtue of the Soul,
and the Medium it Adts by 27
The End of the Magnetifm . ........... . 29
CABALISTICAL MAGIC.
Chap. I. Of the Cabala, See
Chap. II. What Dignity and Preparation is ne-
ceffary to Him who would become a true Ma-
gician
Chap. Ill, That the Knowledge of the true
God is neceffary for a Magician
Chap. IV. Of Divine Emanations, and Ten
Sephiroths, and Ten moll facred Names of-
God which rule them, and their Interpetation
Chap. V. Of the Power and Virtue of the
Divine Names
3d
34
35
ib.
39
Chap.
XIV TABLE OF CONTENTS.
Page.
Chap. VI. Of Intelligences and Spirits; and
of the threefold Kinds of them, and their dif-
ferent Names ;
and of Infernal and Subterra-
neous Spirits 42
Chap. VII. Of the Order of Evil Spirits ;
their
Fall, and different Natures 46
Chap. VIII. The Annoyance of Evil Spirits,
and the Prefervation we have from Good
Spirits 49
Chap. IX. That there is a threefold Keeper of
Man ; and from whence each proceeds 52
Chap. X. Of the Tongues of Angels, and their
fpeaking among!! themfelves, and with us. . .
. 53
Chap. XI. Of the Names of Spirits, and their
various Impofition ;
and of the Spirits that are
fet over the Stars, Signs, Corners of the
Heavens, and the Elements. 55
Chap. XII. How the Cabalifls draw forth the
Names of Angels from Sacred Writ; and of
the Seventy-two Angels that bear the Names
of God ;
with the Tables of Ziruph, and the
Commutations of Names and Numbers 58
Chap. XIII. Of finding out the Names of Spi-
rits and Genii, from the Difpofition of the
Celeftial Bodies > 60
Chap. XIV. Of the calculating Art of fuch
Names, by the Tradition of the Cabalifls. . . 6 r
Chap. XV. Of the Characters and Seals of
Spirits 64
Chap. XVI. Another Way of making Charac-
ters, according to the Tradition of Cabalifls. ib.
Chap. XVII There is another Sort of Cha-
racters, of Spirits received by Revelation. . . 66
Chap. XVIII. Of the Bonds of Spirits, and
their Adjurations and cafling out 67
Chap. XIX. By what Methods Magicians and
Necromancers call up the Souls of the
Dead 68
Chap. XX. Of Prophetic Dreams 70
Page.
PART II.
The Perfection and Key of the Cabala, or Ce-
remonial Magic 73
The Calculations of the Names of Good and
Evil Spirits
74
Of Magic Pentacles, the Manner of conftruCting
them 80
A Pentacle for Victory over Enemies 81
again!! Serpents, Poifons, &c 82
Deprecations 83
The Confecration of all Magical Inflruments
and Materials tifed in this Art 85
Confecration of Water 86
Confecration of Fire 87
Confecration of Oil ib.
Confecration and Benediction of Lights ib.
Lamps, Wax, &c ib.
Confecration of Ground, Circle, Place, &c. . . . 88
Of the Invocation of Spirits ;
the binding of,
and confiraining them to appear 89
Defcription and Ufe of a Book of Virgin Parch-
ment, or abortive Vellum, in which the Names
of Spirits are regiltered 90
Confecration of the aforefaid Book 91
Invocation of good Spirits in particular 92
The Invocation Prayer 93
The particular Form of Lamens 94
Of receiving Oracles in Dreams 96
Of the Methods of raifing Evil Spirits, or Fa-
miliars, or the Souls of the Dead, by a Circle 99
The Suffumigations ufed in raifing Ghofts, Sha-
dows, and departed Spirits ;
and what Places
are appropriate to this 101
PART III.
The particular Compofition of the Magic Circle
and of the Forms of the Exorcifms, Bene-
dictions,
TABLE OF CONTENTS.
Page.
di&ions, and Conjurations, for every Day and
Hour in the Week; and the Manner of
working fully defcribed 105
A Table of the Magical Names of the Hours,
by Day or Night 107
Angels of the Seafons, &c 108
Exorcifm of Fire 109
The Habit of the Exorcilt ib.
The Pentacles of Solomon ib.
An Exorcifm of the Spirits of the Air 111
A Prayer to be faid in the Four Parts of the
Circle 113
An Oration . 1
14
Of the Appearance of the Spirits ib.
Confiderations and Conjurations for every Day
in the Week 1 16
The Confideration and Conjuration for Sunday 117
The Conjuration, See., of Monday 1 1
The Conjuration, &c., of Tuefday 1
19
The Conjuration, Sec., ofWednefday 12
The Conjuration, &c., of Thurfday f . . 123
The Conjuration, See., of Friday 125
The Conjuration, &c., of Saturday 126
PART IV.
Tranflation of Trithemius ;
the Tranflatoi’s
Letter . . , , , 1 3
XV
Page.
The Conjurations of Spirits into a Cryftal ; the
Defcription of this Inftrument ;
and the Form
and Ceremony of a Vifion. 134
Table for the Infpeftion of Names of Spirits go-
verning the Planetary Hours by Day and
Night 138
The End of the Magus, or Celeftial Intelli-
gencer 139
THE BIOGRAPHY.
Zoroafler, the Son of Oramafus >44
Hermes, furnamed Trifmegillus 150
Apollonius, of Tyana 152
Peter De Abano l 55
~
Apuleius, the Platonic 158
Ariftotle 162
Artimedorus, of Ephefus 166
The Babylonians 16S
Henry Cornelius Agtippa '
. 170
Albertus Magnus 180
Roger (alias Friar) Bacon 181
Raymond Lully 184
George Ripley >86
John and Ifaac Holland ib.
Theophraftus Paracelfus 188
John Rudolph Glauber 194
Dodor Dee, and Sir Edward Kelly 195
The Conclufion iq-j
DIREC-
DIRECTIONS FOR PLACING THE PLATES,
3
BOOK I.
page-
The Author’s Portrait to front the Title
Magic Tables, Plate I. to front . 143
The Three other Plates of Magic Tables, beginning at that of the Sun, Mercury,
and the Moon, to front . 1 44
Geomantic Charadlers, to front 158
Magic Seals, or Talifmans, to front 174
BOOK II.
The Cabala, Holy Sigils of the Names of God, to front 41
Fallen Angels, Plate I. to front 42
Veflels of Wrath, to front 44
Ophis and Spirit of Antichrift, to front. 46
Evil Daemons, to front 48
Four Plates, Tables of the Cabala, to front 62
Calculations of the Names of Spirits under the Seven Planets and Twelve Signs, to
front 64
The Myfterious Chara&ers of Letters, to front 6
The Cabala, to front 66
Characters of Good and Evil Spirits, to front 78
The Magic Book, &c., to front the Title of Book II. Part III
The Magic Circle, &c., to front 106
Form of the Cryftal Lights, Magic Wand, the Tripod, &c., to front the Title of
Book II. Part IV
ADVERTISEMENT.
As an Introduction to the Study of Natural Magic,
we have thought fit to premife a fhort difcourfe on the Influence of the Stars, and
on Natural Magic in general, fliewinghow far the influences of the heavenly
bodies are ufeful to our purpofes, and likewife to what extent we may admit
thofe influences ;
rejecting fome fpeculations concerning the planetary inclina-
tions, as far as they appertain to queftionary abufes, that feem to us idle,
and of no validity, or yet founded on any principles of found philofophy, or
correfponding to the word of God in the Scriptures. In which difcourfe we
have fully fet down our reafons for rejecting fome parts of aftrology, and
admitting others which are founded on good principles, and coinciding with
the Scriptures and Natural Philofophy : our purpofe being to clear the
underftanding of errors, and not to enforce any thing but wbat appears to be
fubftantiated by nature, truth, and experiment.
Book I. A INTRO-
INTRODUCTION
TO THE
STUDY 'OF NATURAL MAGIC,
OF THE INFLUENCES OF THE STARS.
It has been a fubjeH of ancient difpute whether or not
the liars, as fecond caufes, do fo rule and influence man as to ingraft in his
nature certain pailions, virtues, propenfities, &c., and this to take root in him
at the very critical moment of his being born into this vale of mifery and
wretchednefs 5
likewife, if their fite and configuration at this time do fhew
forth his future paffions and purfuijts ;
and by their revolutions, tranfits, and
direfted afpefts, they point out the particular accidents of the body, marriage,
ficknefs, preferments, and fuch like ;
the which I have often revolved in my
mind for many years paft, having been at all times in all places a warm
advocate for ftellary divination or altrology : therefore in this place it is highly
neceflary that we examine how far this influence extends to man, feeing that I
fully admit that man is endowed with a free-will from God, which the liars
can in no wile counteraft. And as there is in man the power and apprehenfion
of all divination, and wonderful things, feeing that we have a complete fyllem
in ourfelves, therefore are we called the microcofm, or little world ; for we carry
A 2 a heaven
4 INTRODUCTION TO THE STUDY OF NATURAL MAGIC,
a heaven in ourfelves from our beginning, for God hath fealed in us the image
of himfelf ;
and of all created beings we are the epitome, therefore we muft
be careful, left we confound and mix one thing with another. Neverthelefs,
man, as a pattern of the great world, fympathizes with it according to the
ftars, which, agreeably to the Holy Scriptures, are fet for times and feafons, and
not as caufes of this or that evil, which may pervade kingdoms or private
families, although they do in fome meafure forefliew them, yet they are in no
wife the caufe ;
therefore I conceive in a wide different fenfe to what is gene-
rally underftood that “ Stars rule men, but a wife man rules the ftars to
which I anfwer, that the ftars do not rule men, according to the vulgar and
received opinion ;
as if the ftars fhould ftir up men to murders, feditions, broils,
lulls, fornications, adulteries, drunkennefs, &c. which the common aftrologers
hold forth as found and true doCtrine ; becaufe, they fay, Mars and Saturn, being
conjun6f, do this and much more, and many other configurations and afflic-
tions of the two great infortunes, (as ihey are termed when the benevolent
planets Jupiter, Venus, and Sol, happen to be detrimented or afflicted ;
there-
fore, then, they fay men influenced by them are molt furely excited to the
commiflion of the vices before named yet a wife man may, by the liberty of
his own free-will, make thofe affections and inclinations void, and this they
call “ To rule the ftars but let them know, according to the fenfe here un-
derftood, firft, it is not in a wife man to refill evil inclinations, but of the grace
of God, and we call none wife but luch as are endued with grace ;
for, as we
have faid before, all natural wifdom from the hands of man is foolilhnefs in the
fiffht of God ; which was not before underftood to be a wife man fenced with
grace ;
for why fhould he rule the ftars, who has not any occafion to fear con-
quered inclinations ? —therefore a natural wife man is as fubjeCt to the flavery
of fin as others more ignorant than himfelf, yet the ftars do not incline him to
fin. God created the heavens without fpot, and pronounced them good, there-
fore it is the greateft abfurdity to fuppofe the ftars, by a continual inclining of
us to this or that mifdeed, fhould be our tempters, which we eventually make
them, if we admit they caufe inclinations ;
but know that it is not from with-
out, but within, by fin, that evil inclinations do arife : according to the Scrip-
tures,
INTRODUCTION TO THE STUDY OP NATURAL MAGIC. h
tures,
“ Out of the heart of man proceeds evil cogitations, murmurs, adulteries,
thefts, murders, &c.” Becaufe, as the heavens and apprehension of all celef-
tial virtues are fealed by God in the foul and fpirit of man ;
fo when man becomes
depraved by fin and the indulgence of his grofs and carnal appetite, he then be-
comes the feat of the Infernal Powers, which may be juftly deemed a hell ;
for
then the bodily and flelhly fenfe obfcures the bright purity and thinnefs of the
fpirit, and he becomes the inftrument of our fpiritual enemy in the exercife of
all infernal lulls and paffions.
Therefore it is moft neceffary for us to know that we are to beware of grant-
ing or believing any effedts from the influences of the ftars more than they
have naturally ; becaufe there are many whom I have lately converfed with,
and great men, too, in this nation, who readily affirm that theJlars are the
eaufes of any kinds of difeafes, inclinations, and fortunes ;
likewife that they
blame the liars for all their mifcondu6l and misfortunes.
Neverthelefs, we do not by thefe difcourfes prohibit or deny all influence to
the liars ;
on the contrary, we affirm there is a natural fympathy and antipathy
amonglt all things throughout the whole univerfe, and this we lhall Ihew to be
difplayed through a variety of effects ;
and likewife that the liars, as figns, do
forelhew great mutations, revolutions, deaths of great men, governors of pro-
vinces, kings, and emperors ;
likewife the weather, tempells, earthquakes,
deluges, &c. ;
and this according to the law of Providence. The lots of all
men do Hand in the hands of the Lord, for he is the end and beginning of all
things ;
he can remove crowns and fceptres, and difplace the moll cautious
arrangements and councils of man, who, when he thinks himfelf moll fecure,
tumbles headlong from the feat of power, and lies grovelling in the dull.
Therefore our altrologers in moll of their fpeculations feek without a light,
for they conceive every thing may be known or read in the liars : if an odd
filver fpoon is but loll, the innocent liars are obliged to give an account of it
if an old maiden lofes a favourite puppy, away Hie goes to an oracle of divi-
nation for information of the whelp. Oh ! vile credulity, to think that thofe celef-
tial bodies take cognizance of, and give in their configurations and afpe6ts,
continual information of the lowelt and vilelt tranfa6lions of dotards, the moll
trivial
6 INTRODUCTION TO THE STUDY OF NATURAL MAGIC,
trivial and frivolous quedions that are pretended to be refolved by an infpec-
tion into the figure of the heavens. Well does our legiflature juftly condemn as
juggling impoltors all thofe idle vagabonds who infeft various parts of this
metropolis, and impofe upon the fimple and unfufpefting, by anfwering, for a
(hilling or half-crown fee, whatever thing or circum(lance may be propofed
to them, as if they were God’s vicegerents on earth, and his deputed privy
counfellors.
They do not even fcruple ever to perfuade poor mortals of the lower clafs,
that they (hew images in glades, as if they a6tually confederated with evil
fpirits : a notable indance I will here recite, that happened very lately in this
city. Two penurious Frenchmen, taking advantage of the credulity of the
common people, who are continually gaping after fuch toys, had fo contrived
a telefcope or optic glafs as that various letters and figures (hould be refle61ed
in an obfcure manner, (hewing the images of men and women, &c. ;
fo that
when any one came to confult thefe jugglers, after paying the ufual fee, they,
according to the urgency of the query, produced anfwers by thofe figures or let-
ters 5
the which affrights the infpe61or into the glafs fo much, that he or fhe fup-
pofes they have got fome devildh thing or other in hand, by which they remain
under the full conviftion of having actually beheld the parties they wiflied to
fee, though perhaps they may at the fame time be refiding many hundreds of
miles didance therefrom : they, having received this impredion from a pre-con-
eeived idea of feeing the image of their friend in this optical machine, go away,
and anon report, with an addition of ten hundred lies, that they have been
witnefs of a miracle. I fay this kind of deception is only to be a6fed with the
vulgar, who, rather than have their imaginations balked, would fwallow the
mod abominable lies and conceits. For indance, who would fuppofe that any
rational being could be perfuaded that a fellow-creature of proper fize and
ftature (hould be able by any means to thrud his body into a quart bottle ?—the
which thing was advertifed to the public by a merry knave (not thinking
there were fuch fools in exidence), to be done by him in a public theatre.
Upwards of 600 perfons were affembled to behold the tranfa61ion, never
dcabting but the fellow meant to keep his word, when, to the great mortification
and
INTRODUCTION TO THE STUDY OF NATURAL MAGIC. 7
and difgrace of this long-headed audience, the conjuror came forth amidft a
general ftir and buz, of “ Ay, now ! fee ! now ! fee ! he is juft going to jump
in .”— Indeed,” fays the conjuror, “ ladies and gentlemen, I am not ;
for if you
were fuch fools as to believe fuch an abfurdity, I am notwife enough to do it :
’
’
therefore, making his bow, he difappeared, to the great difcomfort of thefe wife-
heads, who flraightway withdrew in the bell manner they could.
As for the telefcope magicians, they were taken into cuftody by the gentle-
men of the police office, in Bow Street ; nor would their familiar do them the kind-
nefs to attempt their refcue.
But to have done with thefe things that are unworthy our notice as philofo-
phers, and to proceed to matters of a higher nature : it is to be noted what we
have before faid, inrefpedt of the influences of the liars, that Ptolemy, in his qua-
drapartite, in fpeaking of generals, comes pretty near our ideas on the fubjedl
of planetary influence, of which we did not at any time doubt, but do not admit
(nay, it is not neceflary, feeing there is an aftrology in Nature),—that each action,
of our life, our affli6iions, fortunes, accidents, are deducible to the influential
effects of the planets : they proceed from ourfelves ;
but I admit that our
thoughts, actions, cogitations, fympathize with the ftars upon the principle of
general fympathy. Again, there is a much ftronger fympathy between perfons
of like confiitution and temperament, for each mortal creature poffeffes a Sun
and fyftem within himfelf ;
therefore, according to univerfal fympathy, we are
affected by the general influence or univerfal fpiritof the world, as the vital princi-
ple throughout the univerfe : therefore we are not to look into the configurations
of the ftars for the caufe or incitement of men’s beftial inclinations, for
brutes have their fpecifical inclinations from the propagation of their principle
by feed, not by the fign of the horofcope ;
therefore as man is oftentimes capable
of the actions and excefles of brutes, they cannot happen to a man' naturally
from any other fource than the feminal being infufed in his compofition ;
for,
feeing likewife that the foul is immortal, and endued with free-will, which a6ts
upon the body, the foul cannot be inclined by any configuration of the ftars
either to good or evil ;
but from its own immortal power of willingly being
feduced by fin, it prompts to evil ;
but enlightened by God, it fprings to good, on
either
8 INTRODUCTION TO THE STUDY OP NATURAL MAGIC,
either principle, according to its tendency, the foul feeds while in this frail body $
but what further concerns the foul of man in this, and after this, we fhall fully
inveftigate the natural magic of the foul, in which we have fully treated every
point of enquiry that has been fuggefted to us by our own imagination, and by
fcientific experiments have proved its divine virtue originally fealed therein by
the Author of its being.
Sufficient it is to return to our fubje£t relative to aftrology, efpecially to know
what part of it is necelfary for our ufe, of which we will feleft that which is pure
and to our purpofe, for the underftanding and effecting of various experiments
in the courfe of our works, leaving the tedious calculation of nativities, the
never-ceafing controverfies and cavillations of its profelfors, the dilfenfions
which arife from the various modes of pradtice ;
all which we leave to the figure-
cafting plodder, telling him, by-the-by, that whatever he thinks he can fore-
fhew by infpefting the horofcope of a nativity, by long, tedious, and night-
wearied ftudies and contemplations ; I fay, whatever he can ffiew refpediing
perfonal or national mutations, changes, accidents, &c. &c. all this we know
by a much eafier and readier method ;
and can more comprehenfively, clearly,
and intelligibly, fliew and point out, to the very letter, by our Cabal,
which we know to be true, without deviation, juggling, fallacy, or collufion, or
any kind of deceit or impoflure whatfoever ;
which Cabal or fpiritual aftrology
we draw from the Fountain of Knowledge, in all fimplicity, humility, and truth ;
and we boaft not of ourfelves, but of Him who teaches us through his divine
mercy, by the light of whofe favour we fee into things fpiritual and divine :
in the pofleffion of which we are fecure amidft the fevereft ftorms of hatred,
malice, pride, envy, hypocrify, levity, bonds, poverty, imprifonment, or any
other outward circumftance ;
we ffiould ftill be rich, want nothing, be fed with
delicious meats, and enjoy plentifully all good things necelfary for our fupport
all this we do not vainly boaft of, as figurative, ideal, or chimerical ; but real,
folid, and everlafting, in the which we exult and delight, apd praife his name
for ever and ever : Amen.
All which we publicly declare to the world for the honour of our God, being
at all times ready to do every kindnefs we can to our poor neighbour, and,
P*
INTRODUCTION TO'THE STUDY OF NATURAL MAGIC. 9
as far as in us lies, to comfort him, fick or affliHed ;
in doing- which we afk no
reward : it is fufficient to us that we can do it, and that we may be acceptable
to Him who fays—“ I am the lig-ht of the world ;
to whom with the Father, and
Holy Spirit, be afcribe.d all power, might, majefty, and dominion : Amen.”
To the faithful and difcreet Student of hVifdom.
Greeting
Take our inftruHions ;
in all things afk counfel of
God, and he will give it ;
offer up the following prayer daily for the illumi-
nation of thy underftanding : depend for all things bn God, the firft caufe ;
with
whom, by whom, and in whom, are all things : fee thy firft care be to know
thyfelf ;
and then in humility direbt thy prayer as follows.
A Prayer or Oration to God.
Almighty and moft merciful God, we thy fervants approach
with fear and trembling before thee, and in all humility do moft heartily
befeech thee to pardon our manifold and blind tranfgreftions, by us committed
at any time ;
and grant, O, moft merciful Father, for his fake who died upon
the crofs, that our minds may be enlightened with the divine radiance of thy
holy wifdom ;
for feeing, O, Lord of might, power, majefty, and dominion,
that, by reafon of our grofs and material bodies, we are fcarce apt to receive
thofe fpiritual inftrufifions that we fo earneftly and heartily defire. Open, O,
bleffed Spirit, the fpiritual eye of our foul, that we may be releafed from this
darknefs overfpreading us by the delufions of the outward fenfes, and may
perceive and underftand thofe things which are fpiritual. We pray thee, oh,
Lord, above all to ftrengthen our fouls and bodies againft our fpiritual
Book I. , B enemies,
10 ORATION TO GOD,
enemies, by the blood and righteoufnefs of our blelfed Redeemer, thy Son,
Jelus Chrilt ;
and through him, and in his name, we befeech thee to illuminate
the faculties of our fouls, fo that we may clearly and comprehenfively hear
with our ears, and underhand with our hearts ;
and remove far from us all
hypocrify', deceitful dealing, profanenefs, inconltancy, and levity ;
fo that
we may, in word and a6t, become thy faithful fervants, and hand firm and
unlhaken againft all the attacks of our bodily enemies, and likewife be proof
againft all illufions of evil fpirits, with whom we defire no communication or
intereft ;
but that we may be inltru61:ed in the knowledge of things, natural
and celeftial : and as it pleafed thee to bellow on Solomon all wifdom, both
human and divine ; in the defire of which knowledge he did fo pleafe thy
divine majelty, that in a dream, of one night, thou didlt infpire him with all
wifdom and knowledge, which he did wifely prefer before the riches of this
life ;
fo may our defire and prayer be gracioully accepted by thee ; fo that,
by a firm dependence on thy word, we may not be led away by the vain and
ridiculous purfuits of worldly pleafures and delights, they not being durable,
nor of any account to our immortal happinefs. Grant us, Lord, power and
llrength of intelle6! to carry on this work, for the honour and glory of thy
holy name, and to the comfort of our neighbour ;
and without defign of hurt
or detriment to any, we may proceed in our labours, through Jefus Chrilt, our
"Redeemer : Amen.
OF NATURAL MAGIC IN GENERAL.
Before we proceed to particulars, it will not be amifs to
fpeak of generals ;
therefore, as an elucidation, we fhall briefly Ihew what
fciences we comprehend under the title of Natural Magic ;
and to halten
to the point, we lhall regularly proceed from theory to practice ;
therefore,
Natural Magic undoubtedly comprehends a knowledge of all Nature, which
we by no means can arrive at but by fearching deeply into her treafury,
which
0F NATURAL MAGIC IN GENERAL. 1 1
which is inexhauftibje ;
we therefore by long- ftudy, labour, and pradlice, have
found out many valuable fecrets and experiments, which are either unknown,
or are buried in the ig-norant knowledg-e of the prefent age. The v/ife
ancients knew that in Nature the greateft fecrets lay hid, and wonderful a6tive
powers were dormant, unlefs excited by the vigorous faculty of the mind of
man ;
but as, in thefe latter days, men give themfelves almoft wholly up to
vice and luxury, fo their underftandings have become more and more depraved ;
’till, being fwallowed up in the grofs fenfes, they become totally unfit for divine
contemplations and deep fpeculations in Nature •, their intelledlual faculty
being drowned in obfcurity and dulnefs, by reafon of their floth, intemper-
ance, or fenfual appetites. The followers of Pythagoras enjoined filence, and
forbade the eating of the flelh of animals ;
the firft, becaufe they were cautious,
and aware of the vanity of vain babbling and fruitlefs cavillations : they ftu-
died the power of numbers to the higheft extent ;
they forbade the eating of
fielh not fo much on the fcore of tranfmigration, as to keep the body in a
healthful and temperate Hate, free from grofs humours : by thefe means they
qualified themfelves for fpiritual matters, and attained unto great and ex-
cellent myfteries, and continued in the exercife of charitable arts, and the
pra6tice of all moral virtues :
yet, feeing they were Heathens, they attained not
unto the high and infpired lights of wifdom and knowledge that was
bellowed on the Apoftles, and others, after the coming of Chrilt ; but
they mortified their lulls, lived temperately, challe, honelt, and virtuous ;
which government is fo contrary to the pra6tice of modern Chrillians, that they
live as if the blelfed word had come upon the earth to grant them privilege to
fin. However, we will leave Pythagoras and his followers, to hallen to our own
work y
whereof we will firlt explain the foundation of Natural Magic, in as
clear and intelligible a manner as the fame can be done.
\
'
.
*
'
•
:
' •
_
>
-
; .
*
/
\
THE
FIRST PRINCIPLES
of
NATURAL MAGIC.
BOOK THE FIRST.
CHAP. I.
NATURAL MAGIC DEFINED OF MAN HIS CREATION DIVINE IMAGE AND OF THE
SPIRITUAL AND MAGICAL VIRTUE OF THE SOUL.
Natural magic Is, as we have faid, a comprehen-
five knowledge of all Nature, by which we fearch out her fecret and occult
operations throughout her vaR and fpacious elaboratory ; whereby we come
to a knowledge of the component parts, qualities, virtues, and fecrets of
mdtals, Hones, plants, and animals ; but feeing, in the regular order of the
creation, man was the work of the lixth day, every thing being prepared for
his vicegerency here on earth, and that it pleafed the omnipotent God, after
he had formed the great world, or macrocofm, and pronounced it good, fo he
created man the exprefs image of himfelf ;
and in man, likewife, an exa6l
model of the great world. We thall defcribe the wonderful properties of man,,
in which we may trace in miniature the exa£l refemblance or copy of the
univerfe ;
by which means we fhall come to the more eafy undemanding of
whatever we may have to declare concerning the knowledge of the inferior
nature, fuch as animals, plants, metals, and Hones *, for, by our Hrfl declaring
the occult qualities and properties that are hid in the little world, it will ferve
as a key to the opening of all the treafures and fecrets of the macrocofm, or
great
NATURAL MAGIC.
14 NATURAL MAGIC. Book I.
great world : therefore, we fhall haften to fpeak of the creation of man, and
his divine image ;
likewife of his fall, in confequence of his difobedience ;
by which all the train of evils, plagues, difeafes, and miferies, were entailed
upon his pofterity, through the curfe of our Creator, but deprecated by the
mediation of our blefled Lord, Chrift.
THE CREATION, DISOBEDIENCE, AND FALL OF MAN.
According to the word of God, whjch we take in all things for our guide,
in the lft chapter of Genefis, and the 26th verfe, it is faid—“ God faid, let
us make man in our image, after our likenefs ; and let them have dominion
over the fifti of the fea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and
over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the
earth.”—Here is the origin and beginning of our frail human nature ; hence
every foul was created by the very light itfelf, and Fountain of Life, after his
own exprefs image, likewife immortal, in a beautiful and well-formed body,
endued with a moft excellent mind, and dominion or unlimited monarchy
over all Nature, every thing being fubjefted to his rule, or command ; one
creature only being excepted, which was to remain untouched and confecrated,
as it were, to the divine mandate :
“ Of every tree of the garden thou mayeft
freely eat “ But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou
fhalt not eat of it ;
for in the day that thou eateft of it, thou fhalt furely die.”
Gen. ii. ver. 16. Therefore Adam was formed by the finger of God, which
is the Holy Spirit ;
whofe figure or outward form was beautiful and propor-
tionate as an angel 5
in whofe voice (before he finned) every found was the
fweetnefs of harmony and mufic : had he remained in the ftate of innocency
in which he was formed, the weaknefs of mortal man, in his depraved ftate,
would not have been able to bear the virtue and celeftial fhrillnefs of his
voice. But when the deceiver found that man, from the infpiration of God,
had began to fing fo fhrilly, and to repeat the celeftial harmony of the
heavenly country, he counterfeited the engines of craft : feeing his wrath
againft
Chap. I. NATURAL MAGIC. 15
againft him was in vain, he was much tormented thereby, and began to think
how he might entangle him into difobedience of the command of his Creator,
whereby he might, as it were, laugh him to fcorn, in derifton of his new crea-
ture, man.
Van Helmont, in his Oriatrike, chap. xcii. fpeaking of the entrance of death
into human nature, &:c., finely touches the fubje6t of the creation, and man’s
difobedience : indeed, his ideas fo perfectly coincide with my own, that I have
thought fit here to tranfcribe his philofophy, which fo clearly explains the text
of Scripture, with fo much of the light of truth on his fide, that it carries along
with it the fureft and moft pofitive convi6tion.
“ Man being effentially created after the image of God, after that, he rafhly
prefumed to generate the image of God out of himfelf ;
not, indeed, by a
certain monfter, but by fomething which was fhadowly like himfelf. With the
ravifhment of Eve, .
he, indeed, generated not the image God like unto that
which God would have inimitable, as being divine ;
but in the vital air of the
feed he gene^ted difpofitions ;
careful at fome time to receive a fenfitive, dif-
curfive, and motive foul from the Father of Light, yet mortal, and to perijh ;
yet, neverthelefs, he ordinarily infpires, and of his own goodnefs, the fubftantial
fpirit of a mind Ihewing forth his own image : fo that man, in this refpeft,
endeavoured to generate his own image ; not after the manner of brute beafts,
but by the copulation of feeds, which at length fhould obtain, by requeft, a
foulified light from the Creator ; and the which they call a fenfitive foul.
“ For, from thence hath proceeded another generation, conceived after a beaft-
like manner, mortal, and uncapable of eternal life, after the manner of beafts
and bringing forth with pains, and fubjeft to difeafes, and death ;
and fo much
the more forrowful, and full of mifery, by how much that very propagation in
our firft parents dared to invert the intent of God.
“ Therefore the .unutterable goodnefs forewarned them that they fhould
not tafte of that tree ;
and otherwife he foretold, that the fame day they
fhould die the death, and fhould feel all the root of calamities which accom-
panies death.”
Defervedly, therefore, hath the Lord deprived both our parents of the benefit
of immortality 5
namely, death fucceeded from a conjugal and brutal copulation :
neither
NATURAL MAGIC.
16 NATURAL MAGIC. Book I.
neither remained the fpirit of the Lord with man, after that he began to be
flefti.
Further; becaufe that defilement of Eve (hall thenceforth be continued in
the propagation of pofterity, even unto the end of the world, from hence the
fin of the defpifed fatherly admonition, and natural deviation from the right
way, is now among other fins for an impurity, from an inverted, carnal, and
well nigh brutifh generation, and is truly called original fin ;
that is, man
being fowed in the pleafure of the concupifcence of the flefh, fliall therefore
always reap a neceffary death in the flefh of fin ;
but, the knowledge of good
and evil, which God placed in the diffuaded apple, did contain in it a feminary
virtue of the concupifcence of the flefh, that is, an occult forbidden conjundfion,
diametrically oppofite to the flate of innocence, which hate was not
a hate of fhipidity ;
becaufe He was he unto whom, before the cor-
ruption of Nature, the effences of all living creatures whatfoever were
made known, according to which they were to be namecTfrom their pro-
perty, and at their firft fight to be effentially diftinguifhed : man, therefore,
though eating of the apple, attained a knowledge that he had loft his radical
innocency ;
for, neither before the eating of the apple was he fo dull or ftupi-
fied that he knew not, or did not perceive himfelf naked ;
but, with the effeft
of fhame and b utal concupifcence, he then firft declared he was naked.
For that the knowledge of good and evil ftgnifies nothing but the concu-
pifcence of the flefh, the Apoftle teftifies ;
calling it the law, and defire of fin.
For it pleafed the Lord of heaven and earth to infert in the apple an incentive
to concupifcence ;
by which he was able fafely to abftain, by not eating of
the apple, therefore diffuaded therefrom ;
for otherwife he had never at any
• time been tempted, or ftirred up by his genital members. Therefore the
apple being eaten, man, from an occult and natural property ingrafted in the
fruit, conceived a Juft, and fin became luxurious to him, and from thence was
made an animal feed, which, haftening into the previous or foregoing difpoii-
tions of a fenfitive foul,
and undergoing the law of other caufes, reflected
itfelf into the vital fpirit of Adam ;
and, like an ignis-fatuus, prefently receiv-
ing
Chap. I. NATURAL MAGIC. 17
ing an archeus or ruling fpirit, and animal idea, it prefently conceived a power
of propagating an animal and mortal feed, ending into life.
Furthermore, the facred text hath in many places compelled me unto a per-
fe6t pofition, it making Eve an helper like unto Adam ;
not, indeed, that the
fhould fupply the name> and room of a -wife,
even as Ihe is called, ftraightway
after fin, for {he was a virgin in the intent of the Creator, and afterwards filled
with mifery : but not, as long as the ftate of purity prefided over inno-
cency, did the will of man overcome her *, for the tranflation of man into
Paradife did forefhew another condition of living than that of a beafl ;
and
therefore the eating of the apple doth by a moft chafte name cover the concu-
pifcence of theJleJh,
while it contains the “ knowledge of good and evil” in
this name, and calls the ignorance thereof the ftate of innocence : for, furely,
the attainment of that aforefaid knowledge did nourifh a moft hurtful death ;
and an irrevocable deprivation of eternal life : for if man had not tailed the
apple, he had lived void of concupifcence, and offsprings had appeared out of
Eve (a virgin) from the Holy Spirit.
~
But the apple being eaten, “ prefently their eyes were opened,” and Adam
began lultfully to covet copulation with the naked virgin, and defiled her, the
which God had appointed for a naked help unto him. But man prevented the
intention of God by a Itrange generation in the flefh of fin whereupon there
followed the corruption of the former nature, or the flefh of fin, accompanied by
concupifcence : neither doth the text infinuate any other mark of “ the know*
ledge ofgood and evilf than that they “ knew themf
elves to be naked or,
fpeaking properly, of their virginity being corrupted, polluted with beftial luft,
and defiled. Indeed, their whole “ knowledge of good and evil” is in-
cluded in their fhame within their privy parts alone ;
and therefore in the 8th
of Leviticus, and many places elfe in the Holy Scriptures, the privy parts
themfelves are called by no other etymology than that of fhame 5
for from
the copulation of the flefh their eyes were opened, becaufe they then knew
that the good being loft, had brought on them a degenerate nature, fhame-
fulnefs, an inteftine and inevitable obligation of death ; fent alfo into their
pofterity.
Book I. C Alas
18 NATURAL MAGIC, Book I«-
Alas ! too late, indeed they underftood, by the unwonted novelty and
(hamefulnefs of their eoncupifcence, why God had fo lovingly forbade the
eating of the apple. Indeed, the truth being agreeable unto itfelf, doth atteft
the filthinefs of impure Adamical generation ;
for the impurity which had
received a contagion from any natural ilfues whatfoever of menflrues or feed,
1
and that by its touching alone is reckoned equal to that which fhould by de-
grees creep on a perfon from a co-touching of dead carcafes, and to be expiated
by the fame ceremonious rite that the text might agreeably denote, that death
began by the eoncupifcence of the flelh lying hid in the fruit forbidden ; there-
fore, alfo, the one only healing medicine, of fo great an impurity contracted by
touching, confifted in wafhing : under the fimilitude or likenefs thereof, faith
and hope, which in baptifm are poured on us, are ftrengthened.
For as foon as Adam knew that by fratricide the firft born of mortals.,
whom he had begotten in the eoncupifcence of the flelh, had killed his brother,
guiltlefs and righteous as he was ;
and forefeeing the wicked errors of mortals
that would come from thence, he likewife perceived his own miferies in
himfelf ; certainly knowing that all thefe calamities had happened unto him
from the fin of eoncupifcence drawn from the apple, which were unavoidably
llfuing on his pofterity, he thought within himfelf that the moll difereet thing
he could do, was hereafter wholly to abflain from his wife, whom he had
violated ; and therefore he mourned, in chaftity and forrow, a full hundred
years •, hoping that by the merit of that abftinence, and by an oppofition to the
eoncupifcence of the flelh, he Ihould not only appeafe the wrath of the
incenfed Deity, but that he Ihould again return into the former fplendour and
majelty of his primitive innocence and purity. But the repentance of one age
being finilhed, it is moll probable the myftery of Chrilt’s incarnation was
revealed unto him ;
neither that man ever could hope to return to the bright-
nefs of his ancient purity by his own ftrength, and much lefs that himfelf
could reprieve his pofterity from death •, and that, therefore, marriage was well
pleafing, and was after the fall indulged unto him by God becaufe he
had determined thus to fatisfy his juftice at the fulnefs of times, which Ihould,
to
NATURAL MAGIC.
Chap. I. NATURAL MAGIC. 19
to the glory of his own tiame, and the confufion of Satan, elevate mankind to
a more fublime and eminent ft ate of bleffednefs.
From that time Adam began to know his wife, viz. after he was an hundred
years old, and to fill the earth, by multiplying according to the blefiing once
given him, and the law enjoined him— Be fruitful and multiply.”—Yet fo,
neverthelefs, that although matrimony, by reafon of the great want of propa-
gation, and otherwife impofiible courfary fucceflion of the primitive divine
generation, be admitted as a facrament of the faithful.
If, therefore, both our firft parents, after the eating of the apple, were
alhamed, they covered only their privy parts ; therefore that fhame doth pre-
fuppofe, and accufe of fometbing committed againft juftice—againft the in-
tent of the Creator—and againft their own proper nature : by confequence,
therefore, that Adamical generation was not of the primitive conftitution of
their nature, as neither of the original intent of the Creator ; therefore, when
God foretels that the earth fhall bring forth thiftles and thorns, and that man
fhall gain his bread by the fweat of his brow, they were not execrations, but
admonitions, that thofe fort of things fhould be obvious in the earth : and,
becaufe that beafts Ihould bring forth in pain—thould plow in fweat—fhould
eat their food with labour and fear, that the earth fhould likewife bring forth
very many things befides the intention of the hufbandman ; therefore, alfo,
that they ought to be nourifhed like unto brute beafts, who had begun to
generate after the manner of brute beafts.
It is likewife told Eve, after her tranfgreflion, that fhe fhould bring forth in
jpain. Therefore, what hath the pain of bringing forth common with the eat-
ing of the apple, unlefs the apple had operated about the concupifcence of the
flefh, and by confequence ftirred up copulation ;
and the Creator had intended
to diffuade it, by dehorting from the eating of the apple. For, why are the
genital members of women punifhed with pains at child-birth, if the eye in
feeing the apple, the hands in cropping it, and the mouth in eating of it, have
offended ? for was it not fufficient to have chaftifed the life with death, and the
health with very many difeafes ?—Moreover, why is the womb affliaed, as in
C 2 brutes.
20 NATURAL MAGIC. Book I.
brutes, with the manner of bringing- forth, if the conception granted to beafls
were not forbidden to man ?
After their fall, therefore, their eyes -were opened, and they were ajhamed ;
it denotes and fignifies that, from the lilthinefs of concupifcence, they knew
that the copulation of the fiefh was forbidden in the moft pure innocent chaf-
tity of nature ;
and that they were overfpread with fhame, when, their eyes
being opened, their underflandings faw that they had committed filthinefs
moll deteltable.
But on the ferpent and evil fpirit alone was the top and fummit of the whole
curfe, even as the privilege of the woman, and the myllerious prerogative of
the blelfing upon the earth, viz. That the woman’s feed Ihould bruife the
head of the ferpent. So that it is not poffible that to bring forth in pain
fhould be a curfe ; for truly with the fame voice of the Lord is pronounced
the blefling of the woman, and victory over the infernal fpirit.
Therefore Adam was created in the polfeffion of immortality. God intend-
ed not that man Ihould be an animal or fenjitive creature, nor be born, con-
ceived, or live as an animal ;
for of truth he was created unto a living foul,
and that after the true image of God ; therefore he as far differed from the
nature of an animal, as an immortal being from a mortal, and as a God-like
creature from a brute.
I am forry that our fchool-men, many of them, wifh, by their arguments
of noife and pride, to draw man into a total animal nature, (nothing more)
drawing (by their logic) the effence of a man elfentially from an animal
nature : becaufe, although man afterwards procured death to himfelf and pos-
terity, and therefore may feem to be made nearer the nature of animal crea-
tures, yet it flood not in his power to be able to pervert tl^e fpecies of the
divine image : even fo as neither was the evil fpirit, of a fpirit, made an ani-
mal, although he became nearer unto the nature of an animal, by hatred and
brutal vices. Therefore man remained in his own fpecies wherein he was
created ;
for as often as man is called an animal, or fenfitive living creature,
and is in earnefl thought to be fuch, fo many times the text is falfified which
fays, But the ferpent was more crafty than all the living creatures of the
earth,
Chap. I. NATURAL MAGIC.
earth, which the Lord God had made becaufe he fpeaks of the natural craft
and fubtilty of that living and creeping animal. Again, if the pofition be
true, man was not directed into the propagation of feed or flefh,
neither did
he afpire unto a fenfitive foul ;
and therefore the fenfible foul of Adamical
generation is not of a brutal fpecies, becaufe it was raifed up by a feed which
wanted the original ordination and limitation of any fpecies ;
and fo that, as
the fenfitive foul in man arofe, befides the intent of the Creator and Nature ;
fo it is of no brutal fpecies, neither can it fubfift, unlefs it be continually tied
to the mind,
from whence it is fupported in its life.
Wherefore, while man is of no brutal fpecies, he cannot be an animal in
refpe6t to his mind, and much lefs in refpe£t to his foul, which is of no fpecies.
Therefore know, that neither evil fpirit, nor whole nature alfo, can, by any
means or any way whatever, change the eifence given unto man from his
Creator, and by his foreknowledge determined that he fhould Temain con-
tinually fuch as he was created, although he, in the mean time, hath clothed
himfelf with ftrange properties, as natural unto him from the vice of his own
will ;
for as it is an abfurdity to reckon man glorified among animals, becaufe he
is not without fenfe or feeling, fo to be fenfitive does not fhew the insepa-
rable eifence of an animal.
Seeing, therefore, our firft parents had both of them now felt the effect
throughout their whole bodies of the eating of the apple, or concupifcence of
the flefh in their members in Paradife, it fhamed them ; becaufe their mem-
bers, which, before, they could rule at their pleafure, were afterwards moved by
a propet incentive to lull.
Therefore, on the fame day, not only mortality entered through con-
cupifcence, but it prefently after entered into a conceived generation ;
for
which they were, the fame day, alfo driven out of Paradife : hence followed
an adulterous, lafcivious, beaft-like, devilifh generation, and plainly incapable
of entering into the kingdom of God, diametrically oppofite to God’s ordina-
tion •, by which means death, and the threatened punifhment, corruption,
be-
came infeparable to man and his pofterity.
Therefore,
22 NATURAL MAGIC. Book I.
Therefore, original fin was effectively bred from the concupifcence of the
flefh, but occafioned only by the apple being eaten, and the admonition
defpifed : but the ftimulative to concupifcence was placed in the diffuaded
tree, and that occult luftful property radically inferted and implanted in it.
But when Satan (befides his and the deflowering of the virgin, nothing
hindering of it) faw that man was not taken out of the way, according to the
forewarning, (for he knew not that the Son of God had conftituted himfelf a
furety, before the* Father, for man) he, indeed, looked at the vile, corrupted,
and degenerated nature of man, and faw that a power was withdrawn from him
of uniting himfelf to the God of infinite majefty, and began greatly to rejoice.
That joy was of fhort duration, for, by and by, he likewife knew that marriage
was ratified by Heaven—that the divine goodnefs yet inclined to man—and
that Satan’s own fallacies and deceits were thus deceived : hence conjecturing
that the Son of God was to reftore every defeCt of contagion, and, therefore,
perhaps, to be incarnated. He then put himfelf to work how, or in what
manner, he fliould defile the flock that was to be raifed up by matrimony with
a mortal foul, fo that he might render every conception of God in vain : there-
fore he ftirred up not only his fratricides, and notorioufly wicked perfons, that
there might be evil abounding at all times ;
but he procured that Atheifm
might arife, and that, together with Heathenifm, it might daily increafe,
whereby indeed, if he could not hinder the co-knitting of the immortal mind
with the fenfitive foul, he might, at leaft, by deftroying the law of Nature,
bring man unto a level with himfelf under infernal puniftiment : but his fpecial
care and defire was to expunge totally the immortal mind out of the flock of
poflerity.
Therefore he fthe Devil ftirs up, to this day, deteftable copulations in
Atheiftical libertines : but he faw from thence, that nothing but brutifh or
favage monfters proceeded, to be abhorred by the very parents themfelves ;
and that the copulation with women was far more plaufible to men ;
and that
by this method the generation of men fhould conftantly continue ;
for he en-
deavoured to prevent the hope of reftoring a remnant, that is, to hinder the
incarnation of the Son of God ;
therefore he attempted, by an application of
aCtive
2
Chap. I. NATURAL MAGre. 23
active things, to frame the feed of man according1
to his own accurfed defire ;
which, when he had found vain and impoflible for him to do, he tried again
whether an imp or witch might not be fru&ified by fodomy and when this
did not fully anfwer his intentions every way, and he faw that of an afs and a
horfe a mule was bred, which was nearer a-kin to his mother than his father j
likewife that of a coney and dormoufe being the father, a true coney was bred,
being diftintft from his mother, only having a tail like the dormoufe ;
he de-
clined thefe feats, and betook himfelf to others worthy, indeed, only of the
fubtile craft of the Prince of Darhnefs.
Therefore Satan inftituted a connexion of the feed of man with the feed
and in the womb of a junior witch, or forcerefs, that he might exclude the
difpofitions unto an immortal mind from fuch a new, polifhed conception : and
afterwards came forth an adulterous and lafcivious generation of Faunii, Satyrs,
Gnomes, Nymphs, Sylphs, Driades, Hamodriades, Neriads, Mermaids,
Syrens, Sphynxes, Monfters, &c., uling the conftellations, and difpofing the
feed of man for fuch like monftrous prodigious generations.
And, feeing the Faunii and Nymphs of the woods were preferred before the
others in beauty, they afterwards generated their offspring amongfl themfelves,
and at length began wedlocks with men, feigning that, by thefe copulations,
they fhould obtain an immortal foul for them and their offspring ;
but this
happened through the perfuafions and delufions of Satan to admit thefe mon-
fters to carnal copulation, which the ignorant were eafily perfuaded to ; and
therefore thefe Nymphs are called Succubii : although Satan afterwards com-
mitted worfe, frequently tranfchanging himfelf, by affuming the perfons of
both Incubii and Succubii, in both fexes j but they conceived not a true
young by the males, except the Nymphs alone. The which, indeed, feeing
the fons of’ God (that is, men) had now, without diftinCtion, and in many
places, taken to be their wives, God was determined to blot out the whole
race begotten by thefe infernal and deteftable marriages, through a deluge of
waters, that the intent of the evil fpirit might be rendered fruftrate.
Of which monfters before mentioned, I will here give a ftriking example
from Helmont : for he fays, a merchant of iEgina, a countryman of his,
24 NATURAL llAGIC, Book I.
failing- various times unto the Canaries, was atked by Helmont for his ferious
judgment about certain creatures, which the mariners frequently brought home
from the mountains, as often as they went, and called them Tude-fquils ;* for
they were dried dead carcaffes, almofl: three-footed, and fo fmall that a boy
might eafily carry one of them upon the palm of his hand, and they were of an
exa6t human thape ;
but their whole dead carcafs was clear or tranfparent as
any parchment, and their bones flexible like griftles ;
againfi: the fun, alfo,
their bowels and inteftine were plainly to be feen ;
which thing I, by Spa-
niards there born, knew to be true. I confidered that, to this day, the defiroy-
ed race of the Pygmies were there ;
for the Almighty would render the ex-
peHations of the evil fpirit, fupported by the abominable actions of mankind,
void and vain ;
and he has, therefore, manifoldly faved us from the craft and
fubtilty of the Devil, unto whom eternal punilhments are due, to his extreme
and perpetual coufufion, unto the everlalting fanftifying of the Divine
Name.
CHAP. II.
OF THE WONDERS OF NATURAL MAGIC, DISPLAYED IN A VARIETY OF SYMPATHETIC AND
OCCULT OPERATIONS THROUGHOUT THE FAMILIES OF ANIMALS, PLANTS, METALS, AND
STONES, TREATED OF MISCELLANEOUSLY.
THE wonders of Animal Magic we mean fully to difplay under the title of
Magnetifm.- But here we haften to inveftigate by what means, inftruments,
and effects, we muft apply aftives to paflives, to the producing of rare and un-
common effects ;
whether by aStions,
amulets, alligations and fufpenjions—
or rings,
papers, un61ions, fuffumigations,
allurements, forceries, enchant-
ments, images, lights,
founds, or the like. Therefore, to begin with things
more Ample : —If any one (hall, with an entire new knife, cut afunder a lemon,
ufing words expreflive of hatred, contumely, or diflike, againfi any individual.
* Stude-quills, or Stew’d quills.
the
Chap. II. NATURAL MAGIC. 25
N
the abfent party, though, at an unlimited diflance, feels a certain inexpref-
fible and cutting anguifh of the heart, together with a cold chillinefs and
failure throughout the body ;
—likewife of living animals, if a live pigeon be
cut through the heart, it caufes the heart of the party intended to affefit with
a fudden failure ; —likewife fear is induced by fufpending the magical image
of a man by a tingle thread ;—alfo death and definition by means fimilar to
thefe ;
and all thefe from a fatal and magical fympathy.
Likewife of the virtues of timple animals, as well as manual operations, of
which we fhall fpeak more anon : —The application of hare’s fat pulls out a
thorn ; —likewife any one may cure the tooth-ache with the tlone that is in the
head of the toad —alfo, if any one fhall catch a living frog before fun-rife,
and he or fhe fpits in the mouth of the frog, will be cured of an aflhmatic
confumption —likewife the right or left eye of the fame animal cures blind-
nefs ;
and the fat of a viper cures a bite of the fame. Black hellebore eafeth
the head-ache, being applied to the head, or the powder fnuffed up the nofe
in a moderate quantity. Coral is a well-known prefervative againfl witchcraft
and poifons, which if worn now, in this time, as much round children’s necks
as ufual, would enable them to combat many difeafes which- their tender years
are fubje6led to, and to which, with fafeinations, they often fall a vi6lim.
I know how to compofe coral amulets, or talifmans, which, if fufpended even
by a thread, fhall (God aflifling) prevent all harms and accidents of violence
from fire, or water, or witchcraft, and help them to withfland all their difeafes.
Paracelfus and Helmont both agree, that in the toad, although fo irreverent
to the fight of man, and fo noxious to the touch, and of fuch flrong violent
antipathy to the blood of man, I fay, out of this hatred Divine Providence
hath prepared us a remedy againfl manifold difeafes moll inimical to man’s
nature. The toad hath a natural averfion to man ;
and this fealed image, or
idea of hatred, he carries in his head, eyes, and mofl powerfully throughout his
whole body : now that the toad may be highly prepared for a fympathetic remedy
againfl the plague or other diforders, fuch as the ague, falling, fickneffes, and
various others ;
and that the terror of us, and natural inbred, hatred may the more
flrongly be imprinted and higher afeend in the toad, we mull hang him up aloft
Book I, D in
26 NATURAL MAGIC, Book I,
#>
in a chimney, by the legs, and fet under him a difli of yellow wax, to receive
whaifoever may come down, or fall from his mouth -, let him hang in this po-
rtion, in our fight, for three or four days, at leaft till he is dead : now we
muft not omit frequently to be prefent in fight of the animal, fo that his fears
and inbred terror of us, with the ideas of ftrong hatred, may encreafe even
unto death.
So you have a molt powerful remedy in this one toad, for the curing of
forty thoufand perfons infe6ted with the peft or plague.
Van Helmont’s procefs for making a prefervative amulet againft the plague
is as follows :
“ In the month of July, in the decreafe of the moon, I took old toads, whofe
eyes abounded with white worms hanging forth into black heads, fo that both
his eyes were totally formed with worms, perhaps fifty in number, thickly
compacted together, their heads hanging out ; and as oft as any one of them at-
tempted to get out, the toad, by applying his fore-foot, forbade its utterance.
Thefe toads being hung up, and made to vomit in the manner before men-
tioned, I reduced the infefts and other matters ejected from the toad, with the
waxen difli being added thereto ;
and, the dried carcafs of the toad being re-
duced into powder, I formed the whole into troches, with gum-dragon ; which,
being borne about the left breaft, drove fpeedily away all contagion 5 and
being faft bound to the place affedted, thoroughly drew out the poifon : and
thefe troches w'ere more potent after they had returned into ufe divers times,
than when new. I found them to be a molt powerful amulet againft the
plague ;
for if the ferpent eateth duft all the days of his life, becaufe he was
the inftrument of finning ;
fo the toad eats earth, (which he vomits up) all the
days of his life •, and, according to the Adeptical philofophy, the toad bears
an hatred to man, fo that he infers fome herbs that are ufeful to man with
his poifon, in order for his death. But this difference note between the toad
and the ferpent : the toad, at the fight of man, from a natural quality fealed
in him, called antipathy, conceives a great terror or aftonifliment ; which ter-
ror from man imprints on this animal a natural efficacy againft the images of
the affrighted archeus in man. For, truly, the terror of the toad kills and anni-
hilates
Chap. II. NATURAL MAGIC. 27
hilates the ideas of the affrighted archeus in man, becaufe the terror in the
toad is natural, therefore radical.”
For the poifon of the plague is fubdued by the poifon of the toad, not by
an action primarily deftru&ive, but by a fecondary action ;
as the peftilent
idea of hatred or terror extinguilh.es the ferment, by whofe mediation the poi-
fon of the plague fubfifts, and proceeds to infebt : for feeing the poifon of the
plague is the produft of the image of the terrified archeus eftablilhed in a fer-
mental, putrified, odour, and mumial air, this coupling ferments the appro-
priate mean, and immediately the fubje6t of the poifon is taken away.
Therefore the oppofition of the amulet formed from the body, &c„, of the
toad, takes away and prevents the baneful and moll horrible effects of the
peftilential poifon and ferment of the plague.
Hence it is conjectured that he is an animal ordained by God, that the idea
of his terror being poifonous indeed to himfelf, fhould be to us, and to our
plague, a poifon in terror. Since, therefore, the toad is moft fearful at the
beholding of man, which in himfelf, notwithftanding, forms the terror con-
ceived from man, and alfo the hatred againft man, into an image and aftive
real being, and not confifting only in a confufed apprehenfiori ;
hence it
happens that a poifon arifeth in the toad, which kills the peftilent poifon of
terror in man ; to wit, from whence the archeus waxeth ftrong, he not only
perceiving the peftilent idea to be extinguilhed in himfelf ; but, moreover,
becaufe he knoweth that fomething inferior to himfelf is terrified, difmayed,
and doth fly. Again, fo great is the fear of the toad, that if he is placed
directly before thee, and thou doft behold with an intentive furious look, fo
that he cannot avoid thee, for a quarter of an hour, he dies,* being fafcinated
with terror and aftonilhment.
* I have tried this experiment upon the toad, and other reptiles of his nature, and was fatisfied of the
truth of this affirmation.
28 NATURAL MAGIC. Book L
OF THE SERPENT.
Hippocrates, by the ufe of fome parts of this animal, attained to himfelf
divine honours ;
for therewith he cured pefiilence and contagion, confump-
tions, and very many other difeafes ;
for he cleanfed the flefh of a viper.
The utmoft part of the tail and head being- cut off, he {tripped off the (kin, cafU
ing- away the bowels and gall ; he referved of the inteftines only the heart and
liver ;
he drew out all the blood, with the vein running down the back-bone ;
he bruifed the flefh and the aforefaid bowels with the bones, and dried them in
a warm oven until they could be powdered, which powder he fprinkled on
honey •, being clarified and boiled, until he knew that the flefhes in boiling
had call afide their virtue, as well in the broth as in the vapours ;
he then add-
ed unto this electuary the fpices of his country to cloak the fecret. But
this cure of difeafes by the ferpent contains a great myftery, viz. that as death
crept in by the ferpent of old, itfelf ought to be mitigated by the death of
the ferpent ;
forAdam, being fkilful in the properties of all beafts, was not
ignorant alfo that the ferpent was more crafty than other living creatures, and
that the aforefaid balfam, the remedy of death, lay hid in the ferpent ;
where-
fore the fpirit of darknefs could not more fafely deceive our firft parents than
under the guileful ferpent’s form ;
for they foolffhly imagined they fhould
efcape the death, fo forely threatened by God, by the ferpent’s aid.
Amber is an amulet : —a piece of red amber worn about one, is a preferva-
tive againft poifons and the peftilenee.
Likewife, a fapphire ftone is as effectual. Oil of amber, or amber dif-
folved in pure fpirit of wine, comforts the womb being difordered : if a fuf-
fumigation of it be made with the warts of the fliank of a horfe, it will cure
many diforders of that region.
The liver and gall of an eel, likewife, being gradually dried and reduced
to powder, and taken in the quantity of a filbert-nut in a glafs of warm
wine, caufes a fpeedy and fafe delivery to women in labour. The liver of a
ferpent likewife effect's the fame.
Rhubarb,
Chap. II. NATURAL MAGIC. 29
Rhubarb, on account of its violent antipathy to choler, wonderfully purges
the fame. Mufic is a well-known fpecific for curing the bite of a tarantula, or
any venomous fpider ;
likewife, water cures the hydrophobia. Warts are
cured by paring off the fame ;
or by burying as many pebbles, fecretly, as
the party has warts. The king
r
s-evil may be cured by the heart of a toad
worn about the neck, firfl being dried.—Hippomanes excites luff by the bare
touch, or being fufpended on the party. If any one fhall fpit in the hand with
’
which he ftruck, or hurt, another, fo fhall the wound be cured ; —likewife, if
any one fhall draw the halter wherewith a malefactor was flain acrofs the
throat of one who hath the quinfey, it certainly cures him in three days ;—alfo,
the herb cinque-foil being gathered before fun-rife, one leaf thereof cures the
ague of one day ;
three leaves, cures the tertian ; and four, the quartan ague.
Rape feeds, fown with curfings and imprecations, grows the fairer, and thrives
but if with praifes, the reverfe. The juice of deadly nightfhade, diftilled, and
given in a proportionate quantity, makes the party imagine almoft whatever
you chufe. The herb nip, being heated in the hand, and afterwards you hold
in your hand the hand of any other party, they fhall never quit you, fo long
as you retain that herb. The herbs arfemart, comfrey, flaxweed, dragon-wort,
adder’ s-tongue, being fleeped in cold water, and if for fome time being applied
on a wound, or ulcer, they grow warm, and are buried in a muddy place,
cureth the wound, or fore, to which they were applied. Again, if any one
pluck the leaves of afarabacca, drawing them upwards, they will purge an-
other, who is ignorant of the drawing, by vomit only ;
but if they are wrefted
downward to the earth, they purge by ftool. A fapphire, or a ftone that is of
a deep blue colour, if it be rubbed on a tumour, wherein the plague difcovers
itfelf, (before the party is too far gone) and by and by it be removed from the
fick, the abfent jewel attracts all the poifon or contagion therefrom. And thus
much isfufficient to be faid concerning natural occult virtues, whereof we fpeak
in a mixed and mifcellaneous manner, coming to more diflin6t heads anon.
CHAP..
30 NATURAL MAGIC, Book I.
CHAP. III.
OF AMULETS, CHARMS, AND ENCHANTMENTS.
THE inftrument of enchanters is a pure, living-, breathing fpirit of the
blood, whereby we bind, or attract, thofe things which we defire or delight in ;
fo that, by an earned: intention of the mind, we take poflelflon of the faculties
in a no lefs potent manner than ftrong wines beguile the reafon and fenfes of
thofe who drink them ; therefore, to charm, is either to bind with words, in
which there is great virtue, as the poet fings
“ Words thrice (he fpake, which caus’d, at will, fweet fleep ;
“ Appeas’d the troubled waves, and roaring deep.”
Indeed, the virtue of man’s words are fo great, that, when pronounced
with a fervent conflancy of the mind, they are able to fubvert Nature, to
caufe earthquakes, dorms, and tempeds. I have, in the country, by only
fpeaking a few words, and ufed fome other things, caufed terrible rains and
claps of thunder. Almod all charms are impotent without words, becaufe
words are the fpeech of the fpeaker, and the image of the thing fignified or
fpokenof; therefore, whatever wonderful effect is intended, let the fame be
performed with the addition of words fignificative of the will or defne of the
operator ; for words are a kind of occult vehicle of the image conceived or
begotten, and fent out of the body by the foul ;
therefore, all the forcible
power of the fpirit ought to be breathed out with vehemency, and an arduous
and intent defire ;
and I know how to fpeak, and convey words together, fo as
they may be carried onward to the hearer at a vaft diftance, no other body in-
tervening, which thing I have done often. Words are alfo oftentimes delivered
to us, feemingly by others, in our fleep, whereby we feem to talk and con-
verfe ;
but then no vocal converfations are of any effect, except they proceed
from fpiritual and occult caufes : fuch fpirits have often manifefted Angular
things to me, while in fleep, the which, in waking, I have thought nought
of, until conviction of the truth taught me credulity in fuch like matters.
In
NATURAL MAGIC.
Chap. III. NATURAL MAGIC. 31
In the late change of Adminiftration, I knew, at leaft five days before it actually
terminated, that it would be as I defcribed to a few of my friends. Thefe
things are not alike manifefted to every one ;
only, I believe, to thofe who
have long ferioufly attended to contemplations of this abftrufe nature ; but
there are thofe who will fay it is not fo, merely becaufe they themfelves cannot
comprehend fuch things.
However, not to lofe time, we proceed. There are various enchantments,
which I have proved, relative to common occurrences of life, viz. a kind of
binding to that effect which we defire : as to love, or hatred ;
or to thofe
things we love, or againft thofe things we hate, in all which there is a magical
fympathy above the power of reafoning ; therefore, thofe abftrufe matters we
feel, are convinced of, and reflect upon, and Hraw them into our ufe. I will
here fet down, while fpeaking of thefe things, a very powerful amulet for the
flopping, immediately, a bloody-flux ;
for the which (with a faith) I dareflay
down my life for the fuccefs, and entire cure.
An Amuletfor Flux of Blood.
“ In the blood of Adam arofe death—in the blood of Chrift death is ex-
tinguiflhed—in the fame blood of Chrift I command thee, O, blood, that
“ thou flop fluxing 1”*
In this one godly fuperftition there will be found a ready, cheap, eafy
remedy for that dreadful diforder the bloody-flux, whereby a poor mifera-
ble wretch will reap more real benefit than in a whole ftiop of an apothecary’s
drugs. .
Thefe four letters mrv are a powerful charm, or amulet, againft the
common ague ;
likewife, let them be written upon a piece of clean and new
vellum, at any time of the day or night, and they will be found a fpeedy and
certain cure, and much more efficacious than the word Abracadabra : how-
ever*, as that ancient charm is ftill (amongft fome who pretend to cure agues,
&c.) in fome repute, I will here fet down the form and manner of its being
* Let the party who pronounces thefe words hold the other’s hand.
written
NATURAL MAGIC,
32 Book I.
written ;* likewife it mud be pronounced, or fpoken, in the fante order as it is
written, with the intent or will of the operator declared at the fame time of
making1
it.
CHAP. IV.
OF UNCTIONS, rillLTEUS, POTIONS, &C. THEIR MAGICAL VIRTUES,
UNGUENTS, or un&ions, collyries, philters, &c., conveying the virtues of
things natural to our fpirits, do multiply, transform, transfigure, and tranfmute
it accordingly ;
they alfo tranfpofe thofe virtues, which are in them,
into //, fo
that it not only a6ls upon its own body ,
but alfo upon that which is near it,
and affe&s that (by vifible rays, charms, and by touching it) with fome
agreeable quality like to itfelf. For, becaufe our fpirit is the pure, fubtil,
lucid,
airy, and un6tuous vapour of the blood, nothing, therefore, is better
adapted for collyriums than the like vapour,
which are more fuitable to our
fpirit in fubdance ;
for then, by reafon of their likenefs, they do more dir up,
attract, and transform the fpirit. The fame virtue have other ointments, and
confeftions. Hence, by the touch, often plague, dcknefs, faintings, poifoning,
and love, is induced, either by the hands or clothes being anointed ;
and
often by kiding, things being held in the mouth, love is likewife excited.
• It is here to be particularly noticed by us, that, informing of a charm, or \ ABRACADABRA
amulet, it will be of no effe£l, except the very foul of the operator is ftrongly and \ BRACADABRA
intenfely exerted and imprefled, as it were, and the image of the idea fealed on the \ RACADABRA
charm, or amulet ;
for, without this, in vain will be all the obfervation of times, hours, \ ACADABRA
and conflellations ;
therefore, this I have thought fit to mention, once for all, that it may \ CADABRA
be almoft always uppermoft in the mind of the operator, for, without this one thing \ ADABRA
being obferved and noticed, many who form feals, &c., do fall Ihort of the wilhed-for \ DABRA
effedf. \ ABRA
\ BRA
\ RA
\ A
Now
Chap. IV. NATURAL MAGIC. 33
Now the fight, as it perceives more purely and clearer than the other fenfes,
feals in us the marks of things more acutely, and does, molt of all, and before
all others, agree with our fantaftic fpirit ;
as is apparent in dreams, when things,
feen do more often prelent themfelves to us than things heard, or any thing
coming under the other fenfes. Therefore, when collyriums transform the
vifual fpirits, that fpirit eafily affe6ts the imagination, which, being affe&ed
with divers fpecies and forms, tranfmits the fame, by the fame fpirit, unto the
outward fenfe of fight, by which there is formed in it a perception of fuch
fpecies and forms, in that manner, as if it were moved by external objedts,
that there appear to be feen terrible images, fpirits, and the like. There are
fome collyriums which make us fee the images of
fpirits in the air,
or elfewhere ;
which I can make of the gall of a man, and the eyes of a black cat, and
fome other things. The fame is made, likewife, of the blood of a lapwing,
bat, and a goat ; and if a fmooth Ihining piece of Heel be fmeared over with
the juice of mugwort, and be made to fume, it caufes invocated fpirits to
appear. There are fome perfumes, or- fuffumigations and un&ions, which
make men fpeak in their deep, walk, and do thofe things that are done by
men that are awake, and often what, when awake, they cannot, or dare not
do 5
others, again, make men hear horrid or delightful founds, noifes, and
the like.
And, in fome meafure, this is the caufe why mad and melancholy men
believe they hear and fee things equally falfe and improbable, falling into molt
grofs and pitiful delufions, fearing where no fear is, and angry where there is
none to contend. Such paflions as thefe we can induce by ?nagical vapours,
confections,
perfumes,
collyries, unguents, potions, poifons, lamps, lights,
&c. ;
likewife by mirrors, images, enchantments,. charms, founds and mufic ; alfo by
divers rites, obfervations, ceremonies,
religion, &c„
Book I. E CHAP.
34 NATURAL MAGIC Book l-
CHAP. V.
OF MAGICAL SUSPENSIONS AND ALLIGATIONS SHEWING HOW, AND BY WHAT POWER, THEY
RECEIVE VIRTUE, AND ARE EFFICACIOUS IN NATURAL MAGIC.
WHEN tie foul of the world, by its virtue, doth make all things (that
are naturally generated, or artificially made) fruitful, by fealing and impreff-
mg on them celeftial virtues for the working of fome wonderful effect, then
things themfelves not only applied by collyry, or fuffume, or ointment, or
any other fuch like way ;
but when they are conveniently bound to, or wrapped
up, or fufpended about the neck, or any other way applied, although by ever
fo eafy a contact, they do imprefs their virtue upon us : by thefe alligations,
&c., therefore, the accidents of the body and mind are changed into ficknefs
or health, valour, fear, fadnefs or joy, and the like ;
they render thofe that
carry them, gracious, terrible, acceptable, rejected, honoured, beloved, or
hateful and abominable.
Now thefe kinds of pafiions are conceived to be infufed no otherwife than is
manifefi; in the grafting of trees, where the vital life and virtue is communi-
cated from the trunk to the twig engrafted into it, by way of contact and alli-
gation : fo in the female palm-tree, when the comes near to the male, her
boughs bend to the male, which the gardener feeing, he binds them together
by ropes acrofs, but foon becomes flraight, as if by the continuation of
the rope file had received a propagating virtue from the male. And it is faid,
if a woman takes a needle, and bewray it with dung, and put it up in earth in
which the carcafs of a man has been buried, and carry it about her in a piece
of cloth ufed at a funeral, no man can defile her as long as the carries that.
Now by thefe examples we fee how, by certain alligations of certain things,
alfo fufpenfions, or by the moft fimple contafr or continuation of any thread,
we may be able to receive fome virtues thereby ;
but it is neceffary to know
the certain rule of magical alligation and fufpenfion ;
and the manner that the
art requires is this, viz. that they mull be done under a certain and fuitable
conftellation 5
and they mull be done with wire, or filken threads, or finews
of
Chap. VI. NATUHAL MAGIC. ,
of certain animals ;
and thofe things that are to be wrapped up, are to be
done in the leaves of herbs, or (kins of animals, or membraneous parchments,
&c. For, if you would procure the folary virtue of any thing, this is to b#
wrapped up in bay-leaves, or the fkin of a lion, hung round the neck with
gold, filk, or purple or yellow thread : while the fun reigns in the heavens, fo
fhalt thou be endued with the virtue of that thing. So if a faturnine quality
or thing be defired, thou fhalt in like manner take that thing, while Saturn
reigns, and wrap it up in the (kin of an afs, or in a cloth ufed at a funeral,
efpecially if melancholy or fadnefs is to be induced, and with a fad, or afh,
or leaden, or black fdk or thread, hang it about thy neck ;
and fo in the fame
manner we muft proceed with the reft.
CHAP. VI.
OF ANTIPATHIES.
IT is neceffary, in this place, to fpeak of the antipathies of natural things,
feeing it is requifite, as we go on, to have a thorough knowledge of that ob-
ftinate contrariety of Nature, where any thing fhuns its contrary, and drives it,
as it were, out of its prefence. Such antipathy as this has the root rhubarb
againft choler ;
treacle againft poifon ;
the fapphire Jlone againji hot biles,
feverifh heats, and difeafes of the eyes ;
the amethyji againft drunkennefs ;
the jafper againft the bloody-flux and offenfive imaginations ;
the emerald,
and agnus cafus againft luft ;
achates,
or agates,
againft poifon ;
piony againft
the falling ficknefs ;
coral againft the ebullition of black choler, and pains of
the ftomach ;
the topaz againft fpiritual heats, fuch as are covetoufnefs, luft,
and all manner of love exceffes. The fame antipathy is there, alfo, of pif-
mires againft the herb organ, and the wing of a bat, and the heart of a lap-
wing, from the prefence of which they fly. Alfo, the organ is contrary to a
certain poifonous fly which cannot refill the fun, and refills falamanders, and
loaths cabbage with fuch a deadly hatred that they cannot endure each other.
E 2 So
36 NATURAL MAGIC. Book I.
So they fay cucumbers hate oil. And the gall of a crow makes even men
fearful, and drives them from the place wherein it is placed. A diamond dis-
agrees with a loadjione ; that being prefent, it buffers no iron to be drawn to it.
Sheep avoid frog-parfley as a deadly thing ;
and, what is more wonderful, Na-
ture hath depitrtured the Sign of this antipathy upon the livers of (heep, in
which the very figure of frog-parfley doth naturally appear. Again, goats
hate garden-bafil, as if there was nothing more pernicious. And, amongfi
animals, mice and weafels difagree ;
fo a lhard is of a contrary nature to a
fcorpion, and induces great terror to the fcorpion wr
ith its very fight, and they
are therefore killed with the oil of them ;
which oil will likewife cure the
wounds made by fcorpions. There is a great enmity between Scorpions and
mice ;
therefore. if a moufe be applied to the bite of a fcorpion, he cures it.
Nothing is fo much an enemy to fnakes as crabs ;
and if fvvine be hurt by
them, they are cured by crabs ;
the fun, alfo, being in Cancer, Serpents are
tormented. Alfo, the fcorpion and crocodile kill one another ; and if the
bird ibis does but touch a crocodile with one of his feathers, he makes him un-
moveable. The bird called a buftard flies away at the fight of a horfe ; and
a hart at the fight of a ram, or a viper. An elephant trembles at the hearing
of the grunting of a hog ;
fo doth a lion at the crowing of a cock ;
and a
panther will not touch them that are anointed with the fat of a hen, efpecially
if garlick has been put into it. There is alfo an enmity between foxes and
fwans •, bulls and jackdaws. And Some birds are at a perpetual variance, as
daws and owls ; kites and crows ;
turtle and ring-tail ;
egepis and eagles ;
alfo, harts and dragons. Amongfi: water animals, there is q great antipathy
between dolphins and whirlpools ;
the mullet and pike ;
lamprey and conger ;
pourcontrel and lobfter, which latter, but feeing the former, is nearly firuck
dead with fear ;
but the lobfter tears the conger. The civet-cat cannot refill
the panther 5
and if the fkins of both be hung up againft each other, the fkin
or hairs of the panther will fall off. Apollo fays, in his hieroglyphics, if
any one be girt about with the fkin of a civet-cat, he may pafs fafe through
his enemies. The lamb flies from the wolf ;
and if the tail, fkin, or head of
lupus be hung up in the fheeps’-cot, they cannot eat their meat for very fear.
And
NATURAL MAGIC. 37
Chap. VII.
And Pliny mentions the bird called the marlin, that breaks the eggs of the crow,
whofe young are annoyed by the fox 3
that (he alfo will pinch the whelps of
the fox, and the fox likewife, which, when the crow fees, they help the fox
againfl her as again!! a common enemy. The linnet lives in, and eats thir-
ties 3
yet !he hates the afs, becaufe he eats the thirties and flowers of them.
There isTo great an enmity between the little bird called efalon and the afs,
that their blood will not mix 3
and that, at the rtmple braying of the afs, both
the efalon’s eggs and young perirti together. There is, alfo, a total antipathy
of the olive-tree to the harlot 5
that, if lhe plant it, it will neither thrive nor
profper, but wither. A lion fears lighted torches, and is tamed by nothing
fooner. The wolf fears not fword or fpear, but a ftone 3
by the throwing of
which a wound being made, worms breed in the wolf. A horfe fears a camel
fo much that he cannot endure the picture of that heart. An elephant, when
he rages, is quieted by feeing a cock. A fnake is afraid of a naked man, but
purfues one clothed. A mad bull is tamed by being tied to a fig-tree. Am-
ber attracts all things to it but garden-bafil, and things fmeared with oil, be-
tween which there is a natural antipathy.
CHAP. VII.
OF THE OCCULT VIRTUES OF THINGS WHICH ARE INHERENT IN THEM ONLY IN THEIR
LIFE-TIME, AND SUCH AS REMAIN IN THEM EVEN AFTER DEATH.
IT is expedient for us to know that there are fome things which retain virtue
only while they are living, others even after death. So in the cholic, if a live
duck be applied to the belly, it takes away the pain, and the duck dies. If
you take the heart out of any animal, and, while it is warm, bind it to one
that has a quartan fever, it drives it away. So if any one fhall fwallow the
heart of a lapwing, fwallow, weafel, or a mole, while it is yet living and
warm with natural heat, it improves his mtelle6t, and helps him to remember,
underftand, and foretel things to come. Hence this general rule,—that what-
ever
38 NATURAL MAGIC. Book I.
ever thing's are taken for magical ufes from animals, whether they are (tones,
members, hair, excrements, nails, or any thing elfe, they mult be taken
from thofe animals while they are yet alive, and, if it is poflible, that they
may live afterwards. If you take the tongue of a frog, you put the frog into
water again ;
—and Democritus writes, that if any one (hall take out the
tongue of a water-frog, no other part of the animal flicking to it, and lay it
upon the place where the heart beats of a womin, die is compelled, againft
her will, to anfwer whatfoever you fhall afk of her. Alfo, take the eyes of a
frog, which mull be extracted before fun-rife, and bound to the Tick party, and
the frog to be let go again blind into the water, the party fhall be cured of a
tertian ague ; alfo, the fame will, being bound with the flefh of a nightingale
in the fkin of a hart, keep a perfon always wakeful without fleeping. Alfo,
the roe of the fork fifli being bound to the navel, is faid to caufe women an
eafy child-birth, if it be taken from it alive, and the fifh put into the fea
again. So the right eye of a ferpent being applied to the forenefs of eyes,
cures the fame, if the ferpent be let go alive. So, likewife, the tooth of a
mole, being taken out alive, and afterwards let go, cures the tooth-ache ; and
dogs will never bark at thofe who have the tail of a weafel that has efcaped.
Democritus fays, that if the tongue of the cameleon be taken alive, it con-
duces to good fuccefs in trials, and likewife to women in labour but it mufl
be hung up on fome part of the outfide of the houfe, otherwife, if brought into
the houfe, it might be molt dangerous.
There are very many properties that remain after death ;
and thefe are things
in which the idea of the matter is lefs fwallowed up, according to Plato,
in
them : even after death, that which is immortal in them will work fome won-
derful things :
—as in the (kins we have mentioned of feveral wild beads, which
will corrode and eat one another after death ;
alfo, a drum made of the
rocket-fifh drives away all creeping things at what diftance foever the found
of it is heard *, and the firings of an inflrument made of the guts of a wolf,
and being drained upon a harp or lute, with drings made of fheep-guts, will
make no harmony .
CHAP.
Chap. VIII. NATURAL MAGIC. 39
CHAP. VIII.
OF THE WONDERFUL VIRTUES OF SOME KINDS OF PRECIOUS STONES.
IT is a common opinion of magicians, that ftones inherit great virtues,
which they receive through the fpheres and a6tivity of the celeftial influences,
by the medium of the foul or fpirit of the world. Authors very much dif-
agree in refpe6t of the probability of their actually having fuch virtues in
potentia, fome debating warmly againft any occult or fecret virtue lying hid
in them ;
others, as warmly, fhewing the caufes and effects of thefe fympa-
thetic properties. However, to leave thefe trifling arguments to thofe who
love cavil and contentions better than I do, and, as I have neither leifure nor
inclination to enter the lifts with fophifts, and tongue-philofophers ;
I fay, that
thefe occult virtues are difpofed throughout the animal, vegetable, and mineral
kingdoms, by feeds, or ideas originally emanating from the Divine mind, and
through fuperceleftial fpirits and intelligence always operating, according to
their proper offices and governments allotted them ; which virtues are infufed,
as we before faid, through the medium of the Univerfal Spirit, as by a general
and manifefl fympathy and antipathy eftablifhed in the law of Nature. Amongft
a variety of examples, the loadflone is one moft remarkable proof of the
fympathy and antipathy we fpeak of. However to haften to the point.
Amongft ftones, thofe which refemble the rays of the fun by their golden
fparklings, (as does the glittering ftone aetites) prevent the falling-fick-
nefs and poifons, if worn on the finger ;
To the ftone which is called oculisfolis,
or eye of the fun, being in figure like to the apple of the eye, from which
fhines forth a ray, comforts the brain, and ftrengthens fight ;
the carbuncle,
which fhines by night, hath a virtue againft all airy and vaporous poifons ;
the chryfolite ftone, of a light green colour, when held againft the fun, there
fhines in it a ray like a ftar of gold ;
this is Angularly good for the lungs,
and cures afthmatical complaints ; and if it be bored through, and the hollow
filled with the mane of an afs, and bound to the left arm, it chafes away all
foolifh and idle imaginations and melancholy fears, and drives away folly.
The
NATURAL MAGIC.
40 Book I.
The ftone called iris, which is like cryftai in colour, being- found with fix
corners, when held in the Ihade, and the fun fuffered to Ihine through it, re-
prefents a natural rainbow in the air. The Hone heliotropium, green, like a
jafper or emerald, befet with red fpecks, makes the wearer conftant, renown-
ed, and famous, and conduces to long life ;
there is, likewife, another wonderful
property in this ftone, and that is, that it fo dazzles the eyes of men, that it
caufes the bearer to be invifible ;
but then there mull be applied to it the herb
bearing- the fame name, viz. heliotropium, or the fun-flower ;
and thefekind of
virtues Albertus Magnus, and William of Paris, mention in their writings.
The jacinth alfo poflefles virtue from the fun againtt poifons, peftilences, and
pefliferous vapours ;
likewife it renders the bearer pleafant and acceptable \
conduces, alfo, to gain money ;
being- Amply held in the mouth, it wonder-
fully cheers the heart, and ftrengthens the mind. Then there is the pyrophilus, of
a red mixture, which Albertus Magnus reports that zTfculapius makes mention
of in one of his epiftles to Oftavius Csefar, faying, “ There is a certain poi-
fon, fo intenfely cold, which preferves the heart of man, being taken out, from
burning ; fo that if it be put into the lire for any time, it is turned into a
ftone, which ftone is called pyrophilus it poflefles a wonderful virtue againft
poifon ;
and it infallibly renders the wearer thereof renowned and dreadful to
iiis enemies. Apollonius is reported to have found a ftone called pantaura,
(which will attract other ftones, as the loadftone does iron) molt powerful
againft all poifons : it is fpotted like the panther, and therefore fome na-
turalifts have given this ftone the name of pantherus : Aaron calls it evan-
thum *, and fome, on account of its variety, call it pantochras.
CHAP.
Chap. IX. NATURAL MAGIC. 41
CHAP. IX.
OF THE MIXTURES OF NATURAL THINGS ONE WITH ANOTHER, AND THE PRODUCING OF
MONSTROUS ANIMALS, BY THE APPLICATION OF NATURAL MAGIC.
MAGICIANS, ftudents, and obfervers of the operations of Nature, know
how, by the application of a6tive forms to a matter fitly difpofed, and made,
as it were, a proper recipient, to effedt many wondeiful and uncommon thing's
that feem ftrange, and above Nature, by gathering this and that thing bene-
ficial and conducive to that effect which we defire ;
however, it is evident that
all the powers and virtues of the inferior bodies are not found comprehended
in any one fingle thing, but are difperfed amongft many of the compounds
here amongft us ;
wherefore it is neceffary, if there be a hundred virtues of
the fun difperfed through fo many animals, plants, metals, or ftones, we
fhould gather all thefe together, and bring them all into one form, in which
we fhall fee all the faid virtues, being united, contained. Now there is a
double virtue in commixing : one, viz. which was once planted in its parts,
and is celeftial ;
the other is obtained by a certain artificial mixture of things,
mixed amongft themfelves, according to a due proportion, fueh as agree with
the heavens under a certain conftellation ;
and this virtue defcends by a certain
fimilitude or likenefs that is in things amongft themfelves, by which they are
drawn or attracted towards their fuperiors, and as much as the following do by
degrees correfpond with them that go before, where the patient is fitly applied
to its agent. So from a certain compofition of herbs,
vapours, and fuch like,
made according to the rules of Natural and Celeftial Magic, there refults a
certain common form ;
of which we fhall deliver the true and infallible rules
and experiments in our Second Book, where we have written exprefsly on the
fame.
We ought, likewife, to underftand that by how much more noble and ex-
cellent the form of any thing is, by fo much the more it is prone, and apt to
receive, and powerful to adt. Then the virtue of things do indeed become
wonderful ; viz. when they are applied to matters, mixed and prepared in fit
S°0K I* F feafons
NATURAL MAGIC.
42
feafons to give them life, by procuring life for them from the ftars, our own
fpirit powerfully co-operating therewith ; for there is fo great a power in pre-
pared matters, which we fee do then receive life, when a perfefl mixture of
qualities do break the former contrariety ; for fo much the more perfeft life
things receive, by as much the temper and compofitiOn is free from contrariety.
Now the heavens, as a prevailing caufe, do, from the beginning of every
thing, (to be generated by the concoftion and perfe£t digeftion of the matter)
together with life, bellow celeftial influences and wonderful gifts, according
to the capacity that is in that life and fenfible foul to receive more noble and
fublime virtues. For the celeftial virtue otherwife lies afleep, as fulphur kept
from flame ;
but in living bodies it doth always burn, as kindled fulphur,
which, by its vapour, fills all the places that are near.
There is a book called, “ A Book of the Laws of Pluto,” which fpeaks of
monftrous generations, which are not produced according to the laws of Nature.
Of thefe things which follow we know to be true ; viz. of worms are generated
gnats ;
of a horfe, wafps ;
of a calf and ox, bees. Take a living crab, his
legs being broken off, and he buried under the earth, a fcorpion is produced.
If a duck be dried into powder, and put into water, frogs are foon gene-
rated ;
but if he be baked in a pie, and cut into pieces, and be put in a moift
place under ground, toads are generated. Of the herb garden-bafil, bruifed,
and put between two ftones, are generated fcorpions. Of the hairs of a men-
itruous woman, put under dung, are bred ferpents j
and the hair of a horfe’s
tail, put into water, receives life, and is turned into a moft pernicious worm.
And there is an art wherewith a hen, fitting upon eggs, may be generated
the form of a man, which I myfelf know how to do, and which magicians
call the mandrake, and it hath in it wonderful virtues.
You muft, therefore, know which and what kind of matters are either of
art or nature, begun or perfected, or compounded of more things, and what
celeftial influences they are able to receive. For a congruity of natural things
is fufficient for the receiving of influence from celeftial becaufe, nothing hin-
dering, the celeftials fend forth their light upon inferiors ;
they fu»ffer no matter
to be deftitute of their virtue, Wherefore as much matter as is perfe£t and
Chap. X. NATURAL MAGIC. 43
pure is, as we before faid, fitted to receive celeftial influences ;
for that is the
binding and continuing of the matter of the foul to the world, which doth
daily flow in upon things natural, and all things which Nature hath prepared,
that it is impoflible that a prepared matter thould not receive life, or a more
noble form.
CHAP. X.
OF THE ART OF FASCINATION, BINPING, SORCERIES, MAGICAL CONFECTIONS, LIGHTS, CAN-
DLES, LAMPS, &C. &C. ; BEING -THE CONCLUSION OF THE NATURAL MAGIC.*
WE have fo far fpoken concerning the great virtues, and wonderful efficacy,
of natural things ; it remains now that we fpeak of a wonderful power and
faculty of fafcination ; or, more properly, a magical and occult binding of
men into love or hatred, ficknefs or health ; —alfo the binding of thieves, that
they cannot fteal in any place ; or to bind them that they cannot remove,
from whence they may be deteHed ;—the binding of merchants, that they
cannot buy nor fell *,
—the binding of an army, that they cannot pafs over
any bounds ;
—the binding of fhips, fo that no wind, though ever fo firong,
fhall be able to carry them out of that harbour ; —the binding of a mill, that
it cannot, by any means whatfoever, be turned to work ; —the binding of a
ciftern, or fountain, that the water cannot be drawn up out of them ; —the
binding of the ground, fo that nothing will bring forth fruit, or flourifh in it
alfo, that nothing can be built upon it ;
—the binding of fire, that, though it
be ever fo ftrong, it fhall burn no combuftible thing that is put to it ; —alfo,
the binding of lightnings and tempefts, that they fhall do no hurt ;
—the
binding of dogs, that they cannot bark ; —alfo, the binding of birds and wild
beafts, that they fhall not be able to run or fly away *, and things fimilar to
* The latter part of this Chapter ferves as a rule to be obferved in the corapofition of all kinds of mixed
experiments ; and it is as appropriate to the materials collefted for talifmans, feals, &c. treated of in our
Celeftia) Magic, Book II, F. B.
F 2 thefe.
i
44 NATURAL MAGIC. Book L
thefe, which are hardly creditable, yet known by experience. Now how it
is that thefe kind of binding's are made and brought to pafs, we mutt know.
They are thus done : by forceries, collyries, unguents, potions, binding to
and hanging up of talifmans, by charms, incantations, ftrong imaginations,
affections, paffions, images, characters, enchantments, imprecations, lights,
and by founds, numbers, words, names, invocations, fwearings, conjurations,
eonfecrations, and the like.
OF SORCERIES.
The force of forceries are, no doubt, very powerful ;
indeed they are able
to confound, fubvert, confume, and change all inferior things ; likewife there
are forceries by which we can fufpend the faculties of men and beafts. Now,
as we have promifed, we will fhew what fome of thefe kind of forceries are,
that, by the example of thefe, there may be a way opened for the whole
fubjeCt of them. Of thefe, the firft is menftruous blood, which, how much
power it has in forcery, we will now confider : —Firft, if it comes over new
wine, it will turn it four ;
and if it does but touch a vine, it will fpoil it for
ever ;
and, by its very touch, it renders all plants and trees barren, and thofe
newly fet, die ;
it burns up all the herbs in the garden, and makes fruit fall
from trees ;
it makes dim the brightnefs of a looking-glafs, dulls the edges of
knives and razors, dims the beauty of polilhed ivory, and makes iron rufty 5 it
likewife makes brafs rufty, and to fmell very ftrong ; by the tafte, it makes
dogs run mad, and, being thus mad, if they once bite any one, that wound
is incurable ;
it deftroys whole hives of bees, and drives them away, if it does
but touch them ;
it makes linen black that is boiled with it ;
it makes mares
caft their foals by touching them with it, and women mifcarry $
it makes
affes barren if they eat of the corn touched by it. The afhes of menftruous
clothes caft upon purple garments, that are to be wafhed, change their colour,
and likewife take away the colour of flowers. It alfo drives away tertian
and quartan agues, if it be put into the wool of a black ram, and tied up in a
filver
Chap. X. NATURAL MAGIC. 45
filver bracelet ;
as alfo if the foies of the patient’s feet be anointed therewith,
and efpecially if it be done by the woman herfelf, the patient not knowing
what the ufes. It likewife cures the falling ficknefs ;
but molt efpecially it
cures them that are afraid of water or drink after they are bitten by a mad
dog, if only a menftruous cloth be put under the cup. Likewife, if a men-
llruous woman fhall walk naked, before fun-rife, in a field of handing corn,
all hurtful things periih ^
but if after fun-rife, the corn withers ;
alfo, they are
able to expel hail, rain, thunders, and lightnings 5
more of which Pliny
mentions. Know this, that if they happen at the decreafe of the moon, they
are a much greater poifon than in the increafe, and yet much greater if they
happen between the decreafe and change ;
but if they happen in the eclipfe of
the fun or moon, they are a moll incurable and violent poifon. But they are
of the greateft force when they happen in the firft years of the virginity, for
then if they but touch the door-pofts of a houfe, no mifchief can take effect in
it. And fome fay that the threads of any garment touched therewith cannot be
burnt, and if they are call into a fire, it will fpread no farther. Alfo it is
noted, that the root of piony being given with caftor, and fmeared over with
a menftruous cloth, it certainly cureth the falling ficknefs.
Again, let the ftomach of a hart be roafted, and to it be put a perfume made
with a menftruous cloth ;
it will maK&crofs-bows ufelefs for the killing of any
game. The hairs of a menftruous woman, put under dung, breeds ferpents ;
and if they are burnt, will drive away ferpents with the fume. So great and
powerful a poifon is in them, that they are a poifon to poifonous creatures.
We next come to fpeak of hippomanes, which, amongft foreeries, are not
accounted the leaft : and this is a little venomous piece of flelh, the fize of a
fig, and black, which is in the forehead of a colt newly foaled, which, unlefs
the mare herfelf doth prefently eat, Ihe will hardly ever love her foies, or let
them fuck ;
and this is a moft powerful philter to caufe love, if it be pow-
dered, and drank in a cup with the blood of him that is in love fuch,a potion
was given by Medea to Jafon.
There is another forcery which is called hippomanes, viz. a venomous liquor
iffuing out of the (hare of a mare at the time the lulls after the lior'fe. The
civet-
NATURAL MAGIC.
46 Book I.
civet-cat, alfo, abounds with forceries ;
for the polls of a door being1
touched
with her blood, the arts of jugglers and forcerers are fo invalid that evil fpirits
can by no means be called up, or compelled to talk with them : —this is Pliny’s
report. Alfo, thofe that are anointed with the oil of her left foot, being
boiled with the allies of the ancle bone of the fame and the blood of a weafel,
lhall become odious to all. The fame, alfo, is to be done with the eye being
decoded. If any one hath a little of the firait-gut of this animal about him,
and it is bound to the left arm, it is a charm ; that if he does but look upon a
woman, it will caufe her to follow him at all opportunities ;
and the Ikin of
this animal’s forehead withftands witchcraft.
We next come to fpeak of the blood of a bafililk, which magicians call
the blood of Saturn. —This procures (by its virtue) for him that carries it
about him, good fuccefs of petitions from great men ;
likewife makes him
amazingly fuccefsful in the cure of difeafes, and the grant of any privilege.
They fay, alfo, that a tike, if it be taken out of the left ear of a dog, and it
be altogether black, if the Tick perfon lhall anfwer him that brought it in,
and who, Handing at his feet, lhall alk him concerning his difeafe, there is
certain hope of life ;
and that he lhall die if he make him no anfwer. They
fay, alfo, that a Hone bitten by a mad dog caufes difcord, if it be put into
drinks ;
and if any one lhall put the tongue of a dog, dried, into his Ihoe, or
fome of the powder, no dog is able to bark at him who hath it ;
and more
powerful this, if the herb hound’s-tongue be put with it. And the membrane of
the fecundine of a bitch does the fame ;
likewife, dogs will not bark at him
who hath the heart of a dog in his pocket.
The red toad (Pliny fays) living in briers and brambles, is full of forceries,
and is capable of wonderful things : there is a little bone in his left fide, which
being call into cold water, makes it prefently hot ;
by which, alfo, the rage of
dogs are reftrained, and their love procured, if it be put in their drink, making
them faithful and ferviceable ;
if it be bound to a woman, it flirs up lull. On
the contrary, the bone which is on the right fide makes hot water cold, and
it binds it fo that no heat can make 4t hot while it there remains. It is a cer-
tain cure for quartans, if it be bound to the fick in a fnake’s Ikin ;
and like-
wife
Chap. X. NATURAL MAGIC. 47
wife cures all fevers, the St. Anthony’s fire, and reftrains love and luft. And
the fpleen and heart are effectual antidotes againfl: the poifons of the faid toad.
Thus much Pliny wiites.
Alfo it is faid, that the fword with which a man is flain hath wonderful
power ;
for if the fnaffle of a bridle, or bit, or fpurs, be made of it, with thefe
a horfe ever fo wild is tamed, and made gentle and obedient. They fay, if
we dip a fword, with which any one was beheaded, in wine, that it cures the
quartan, the fick being given to drink of it. There is a liquor made, by
which men are made as raging and furious as a bear, imagining themfelves in
every refpe£t to be changed into one ;
and this is done by dilfolving or boiling
the brains and heart of that animal in new wine, and giving any one to drink
out of a fkull, and, while the force of the draught operates, he will fancy
every living creature to be a bear like to himfelf ; neither can any thing divert
or cure him till the fumes and virtue of the liquor are entirely expended, no
other diftemper being perceivable in him.
The molt certain cure of- a violent head-ache, is to take any herb growing
upon the top of the head of an image ;
the fame being bound, or hung about
one with a red thread, it will foon allay the violent pain thereof.
OF MAGICAL LIGHTS, CANDLES, LAMPS, &c.
There are made, artificially, fome kinds of lamps, torches, candles, and
the like, of fome certain and appropriate materials and liquors opportunely
gathered and collected for this purpofe, which, when they are lighted and fhine
alone, produce fome wonderful effects. There is a poifon from mares, after
copulation, which, being lighted in torches compofed of their fat and mar-
row, doth reprefent on the walls a monftrous deformity of horfes
5
heads, which
thing is both eafy and pleafant to do : the like may be done of alfes and fiies.
And the ikin of a ferpent or fnake, lighted in a green lamp, makes the images
of the fame to appear ;
and grapes produce the fame effect, if, when they are
4'S NATURAL MAGIC, Book I,
in their flowers, you (hall take a phial, and bind it to them, filled with oil,
and fliall let that remain fo till they are ripe, and then the oil be lighted in a
lamp, you fliall fee a prodigious quantity of grapes ;
and the fame in other
fruits. If centaury be mixed with honey and the blood of a lapwing, and be
put in a lamp, they that hand about will be of a gigantic fiature ;
and if it
be lighted in a clear evening, the liars will feem fcattered about.
The ink of the cuttle-fifli being put into a lamp, makes Blackamoors appear.
So, alfo, a candle made of fome faturnine things, fuch as man’s fat and mar-
row, the fat of a black cat, with the brains of a crow or raven, which being-
extinguifhed in the mouth of a man lately dead, will afterwards, as often as it
fhines alone, bring great horror and fear upon the fpedlators about it.
Of fuch like torches, candies, lamps, &c., (of which we fliall fpeak further
in our Book of Magnetifm and Mummies Hermes fpeaks largely of ;
alfo
Plato and Chyrannides ;
and, of the later writers, Albertus Magnus makes
particular mention of the truth and efficacy of thefe, in a treatife on thefe
particular things relative to lights, &c. '
OF THE ART OF FASCINATION, OR BINDING BY TIIE LOOK
OR SIGHT.
We call fafcination a binding, becaufe it is effected by a look, glance, or ob-
fervation, in which we take pofleffion of the fpirit, and overpower the fame, of
thofe we mean to fafcinate or fufpend ;
for it comes through the eyes, and the
inflrument by which we fafcinate or bind is a certain, pure, lucid, fubtil fpirit,
generated out of the ferment of the purer blood by the heat of the heart, and
the firm, determined, and ardent will of the foul which directs it to the objedl
previously difpofed to be fafeinated. This doth always fend forth by the eyes
rays or beams, carrying with them a pure fubtil fpirit or vapour into the eye or
blood of him or her that is oppofite. So the eye, being opened and intent
m>o.n any one with a flrong imagination, doth dart its beams, which are the
vehicle
Chap. X. - NATURAL MAGIC. 49
vehicle of the fpirit, into whatever we will affedl or bind, which fpirit finking-
the eye of them who are fafcinated, being flirred up in the heart and foul of
him that fends them forth, and poffeffing the brealt of them who are flruck,
wounds their hearts, infedts their fpirits, and overpowers them.
Know, likewife, that in witches, thofe are moft bewitched, who, with often,
looking, diredt the edge of their fight to the edge of the fight of thofe who
bewitch or fafcinate them ;
whence arofe the faying of “ Evil eyes, &c.”
For when their eyes are reciprocally bent one upon the other, and are joined
beams to beams, and lights to lights, then the fpirit of the one is joined to
the fpirit of the other, and then are flrong ligations made ;
and moft violent
love is ftirred up, only with a fudden looking on, as it were, with the darting
a look, or piercing into the very inmoft of the heart, whence the fpirit and
amorous blood, being thus wounded, are carried forth upon the lover and
enchanter ;
no otherwife than the fpirit and the blood of him that is murdered
is upon the murderer, who, if Handing near the body killed, the blood flows
afrelh, which thing has been tried by repeated experiments.
So great power is there in fafcination that many uncommon and wonderful
things are thereby effected, efpecially when the vapours of the eyes are fub-
fervient to the affection ;
therefore collyries, ointments, alligations, &c. are
ufed to affedt and corroborate the fpirit in this or that manner : to induce
love, they ufe venereal collyriums, as hippomanes, blood of doves, &rc. To
induce fear, they ufe martial collyriums., as the eyes of wolves, bear’s fat,
and the civet-cat. To procure mifery, or ficknefs, they ufe faturnine, and
fo on.
Thus much we have thought proper to fpeak concerning Natural Magic,
in which we have, as it may be faid, only opened the firft chamber of Nature’s
ftorehoufe ; indeed we Jhould have hiferted many more things here, but as
they fall more properly under the heads of Magnetifm, Mummy, &c., to
which we refer the reader, we fhall take our leave of the reader for the pre-
.
fent, that we may give him time to breathe, likewife to digeft what he has
here feafted upon ;
and, while he is preparing to enter the unlocked chambers
Book I. G of
NATURAL MAGIC.
50 Book I,
of Magic and Nature, we will procure him a rich fervice of moft delicious
meats, fit for the hungry and thirfty traveller through the vaft labyrinths of
wifdom and true fcience.
END OF THE NATURAL MAGIC.
THE Author having, under the title of Natural Magic, colle6ied and ar-
ranged every thing that was curious, fcarce, and valuable, as well his own
experiments, as thofe in which he has been indefatigable in gathering from the
fcience and practice of Magical Authors, and thofe the moll ancient and ab-
ftrufe, as may be feen in the lift at the end of the Book, where he has put
down the names of the authors, from which he has tranilated many things
that were never yet publilhed in the Englifh language, particularly Hemes,
Tritemius,
Paracelfus, Bacon,
Dee, Porta,
Agrippa, &c. &c. &c. ;
from
whom he has not been afhamed to borrow what he thought and knew would
be valuable and gratifying to the fons of Wifdom, in addition to many other
rare and uncommon experiments relative to this art.
THE
THE
TRUE SECRET OF THE PHILOSOPHERS’ STONE 5
OB,
JEWEL OF ALCHYMY,
WHEREIN
THE PROCESS OF MAKING THE GREAT ELIXIR
is discovered
BY WHICH BASE METALS MAY BE TURNED INTO PURE GOLD ; CONTAINING THE MOST
EXCELLENT AND PROFITABLE INSTRUCTIONS IN THE
HERMETIC ART;
DISCOVERING THAT VALUABLE AND SECRET
MEDICINE OF THE PHILOSOPHERS,
To make Men Healthy, Wise, and Happy.
BY F. BARRETT,
STUDENT OF CHEMISTRY, NATURAL PHILOSOPHY, &C.
1801.
I
1
'T
Ovl '!
.
'
.
.
' ... ...
<10 -
-
v .
r
;. r
" ..
; .
'
'L
'
'.. •
/ <_
y 0 % ;
'
.
.
i '•
-
^ 3 '
r_
.
. .. v .
'
>• ' - v i.v'.v u . :: r r •. < .v i r
V. . . CA v .’.
, y) -
: v / '
o- V .
,yy
~ .-•••-
*
...
’
; V. i i
iisoecJiiA? vi'ax :-
r
-'
../
. f
•
‘
»
S3
EPISTLE TO MUSEUS.
“ Thou, O, Mufeus ! whofe mind is high,
“ Obferve my words, and read them with thine eye ;
“ Thefe fecrets in thy facred breaft repone,
“ And in thy journey think of God alone ;
“ The Author of all things, that cannot die
“ Of whom we now fhall fpeak ” '
I TELL thee here, Mufeus, to obferve our words, and read
them with thine eye, that is, the eye of thine underflanding ;
for, know, there
are many that hear us fpeak, that read not the meaning- of our words. Where-
fore fhouldft thou contemplate thefe mylteries with fo much coiiftancy of
mind, if thou didft not perceive in them fome great good molt defirable ?
Litten, then, O, young man, and hear our words ! We will fhew thee the dan-
gerous precipice of vanity and head-long defire—we will defcribe to thee the
ftubborn and fatal will of our paffions, even with tears of contrition, and heart-
felt compaffion for thy inexperience—we will lead thee, as it were, by the
hand, through thofe labyrinths of vice, wherewith thou art daily furrounded ;
and, however prejudiced thou mighteft be againlt the receiving of our dodtrine,
yet, be aifufed, we have in our polfeffion the magical virtue and power of bind-
ing thee to our principles, and making thee happy, in fpite of thyfelf. Here
is a great fecret ! thou fhalt fay—every man wilhes to be happy—which I
grant ;
but my anfwer is—molt men prevent their own happinefs they de-
ft roy it, by fuffering themfelves to be governed by the outward principle of
the flelh, thinking the grealejl good to be in the fatisfying of their carnal
appetites, or in the amafling together heaps of wealth, whereby they thrud
down the meek and poor, raifing up the dandards of Pride, Envy, and Op-
predion. Thefe things every day’s experience confirms ;
nay, there are forne
fo blind, that, in the pofledion of much wealth, they think there is nothing
beyond
54 EPISTLE TO MUSEUS.
beyond it ;
infomuch, that they triumph in ////?, opprejjion, revenge,
and con-
tumely. Bat how is it, thou wilt fay, that, feeing- man is a reafonable being-,
he can poffibly give up his government fo eafily ? —I fay, when man fuffers
the unreafonable and beftial part to deprave him, then he immediately be-
comes a have, (and the vileft of havery is that which deprives man of his focial
virtues -,) for then, although in the pofleffion of great wordly things, fuch as
houfes, eftates, and ail other temporal gifts, yet he becomes an immediate
infbrument to the Prince of this World and the Powers of Darknefs, feeing
that thofe riches he inherits are merely given him in this life, to bellow upon
others thofe necelfaries and comforts which he himfelf does not feel the want
of, and by which he might, if not blinded by his paffions and lulls, fecure
liimfelf an eternal and incorruptible treafure. But he who polfeffes treafures
without men y, liberality, bounty, charity, &c., robs the Eternal Author of
all good, of the honour due unto him, and, in Ihort, is working deltrudlion to
his own foul ;
his riches, inftead of benefiting himfelf and others, eventually
and finally terminates as a curie : while he lives here, he is a fcourge to
fociety -, and, after he leaves this, it is plain enough pointed out in the New
Tevtament what will be his filiation and condition.
Therefore, thou young man, that hall but a few years to live, lludy how
to attain the Hone we teach of : it will protradl the beauty of thy youth,
though thou Ihouldlt live for centuries—it will ever fupply thee with the
means of comforting the afflidled ;
infomuch, that when thou hall attained this
truly defirable and moll perfedl talifman, thy life will become foft and plea-
fant ;
no cares, nor corroding pangs—-no felf-torment will ever invade thy
mind -, neither lhalt thou want the means to be happy, in refpedl of the pof-
feflfion of the goods of this life, but lhalt have abundantly. Blit how, and
from what fource, all this is to proceed—out of what thing or matter thou lhalt
attain thy wifhed-for end,—the lludying of the enfuing Treatife will fufficiently
Ihew.
Thy Friend,
F. B.
TO
55
TO THE READER.
Although we do not, in any point of fcience, arrogate
perfection to ourfelves, yet fomething we have attained by dear experience, by
diligent labour, and by ftudy, worthy of being communicated for the in-
ftrufilion of either the licentious libertine, or the grave ftudent—the obferver
of Nature ;
and this, our Work, we concentrated into a focus : it is, as it were,
a fpiritual eflence drawn from a large quantity of matter ; for we can fay, with
propriety, that this little Treatife is truly fpiritual, and elfential to the hap-
pinefs of man : therefore, to thofe who with to be happy, with every good
intention we commend this Work to be their conftant companion and ftudy,
in which, if they perfevere, they fhall not fail of their defires in the attain-
ment of the true Philofophers’ Stone.
PART
bS
PART THE FIRST.
or ALCHYMY, ITS DIVINE ORIGIN, &C. DIFFICULTY OF ATTAINING A PEREECTION IN THE
ART WHAT AN ADEPT IS OF THE CABALA THE ROSIE CRUCIANS ADEPT ISTS POS-
SIBILITY OF BEING AN ADEPT LIKEWISE, THAT THE LAPIS P II I LOSO PH OR U M EXISTS
IN NATURE, AND THAT PROVED BY SUFFICIENT AUTHORITY, AND THAT THEY ARE NOT
ALL IMPOSTORS WIIO ARE ALCHYMISTS, OR PRETEND TO IT THE MADNESS OF TIIF.
SCHOOLS PROVED, AND THE FOOLISHNESS OF THEIR WISDOM THE TRIUMPH OF CHE-
MICAL PHILOSOPHY, OR THE HERMETIC ART PREFERABLE TO ANY OTHER.
IT is not neceffary here to enter into a long detail of the
merits of Alchymical Authors and Philofophers ;
fuffice it to fay, that Alchy-
my, the grand touch-rflone of natural wifdom, is of Divine origin : it was
brought down from Heaven by the Angel Uriel. Zoroafter, the firft philofo-
pher by fire, made pure gold from all the feven metals ;
he brought the fun
ten times brighter from the bed of Saturn, and fixed it with the moon, who
thereby copulating, begot a numerous offspring of an immortal nature, a pure
living fpiritual fun, burning in the refulgency of its own divin^light, a feed
of a fublime and fiery nature, a vigorous progenitor. This Zoroafter was the
father of alchymy, illumined divinely from above ;
he knew every thing, yet
feemed to know nothing ;
his precepts of art were left in hieroglyphics, yet in
fuch fort that none but the favourites of Heaven ever reaped benefit thereby.
He was the firft who engraved the pure Cabala in moll pure gold, and, when
he died, refigned it to his Father who liveth eternally, yet begot him not : that
Father gives it to his fons, wr
ho follow the precepts of Wifdom with vigilance,
ingenuity, and induftry, and with a pure, chafle, and free mind.
Hermes Trifmegiflus, Geber, Artephius, Bacon, Helmont, Lully, and
Bafil Valentine, have written mofl profoundly, yet abftrufely, and all declare
not the thing fought for. Some fay they were forbid ;
others, that they de-
clared it obvioufly and intelligibly, yet fome few little points they kept to
themfelves.
ALCHYMY.
Part I.
r ALCHYMY. 57
themfelves. However far off the main point they lead us, of this be fure,-—
that fomething valuable is to be drained, as it were, out of each.
Geber is good—Artephius is better-~but Flammel is bell of all ; —and
better ftill than thefe is the iaftru&ions we give ;
for with them a man (fol-
lowing our directions) fhall never want gold ;
therefore to be an adept is poi-
fible, but firft « feek the kingdom of God, and all thefe things ihall be added
unto you.” This is truth incontrovertible, and herein lies a vaft fecret—
“ feek, and ye (hall find 3
”—but remember, whatfaever ye alk, that fhall ye
receive.
The cabala, in its utmoft purity, is contained in the many precepts given
in this book. The cabala enables us to underhand—to bring our underftand-
ings to afit, and, by that means, to attain knowledge ; —knowledge makes
us the children of God—God makes whom he pleafes adepts in wifdom. To
be an adept, according to God’s will, is no contemptible calling.
The noble and virtuous Brethren of the Rofy Crofs hold this truth facred,.
that “ Virtue flies from no man therefore how definable a thing is Virtue.
She teaches us, firft, wifdom, then charity, love, mercy, faith, and conftancy :
all thefe appertain to Virtue ;
therefore it is phyfically poflible for any well-
inclined man to become an adept, provided he lays afide his pride of reafoning,
all obftinacy, blindnefs, hypocrify, incredulity, fuperftition, deceit, &c.
An adept, therefore, is one who not only ftudies to do God’s will upon
earth, in refpeCt of his moral and religious duties ;
but who ftudies, and ardently
prays to his benevolent Creator to beftow on him wifdom and knowledge from
the fulnefs of his treafury ;
and he meditates, day and night, how he may
attain the true aqua vita—how he may be filled with the grace of God ;
which, when he is made fo happy, his fpiritual or internal eye is open to a
glorious profpecf of mortal and immortal riches : —he wants not food, raiment
joy, or any other thing—he is filled with the celeftial fpiritual manna—he
enjoys the marrow and fat things of the earth—he treads the wine-prefs, not
of the wrath, but of the mercy of God—he lives to the glory of God, and
dies faying “ Holy, holy, holy Lord of Sabaoth ! bleffed is thy name, now
and for evermore ! Amen.”
Book I. H Therefore
ALCHYMY.
,)8 Book I.
Therefore, to be an adept, as we have before hinted, is te> know thyfelf,
fear God, and love thy neighbour as thyfelf ;
and by this thou fhalt come to
the fulfilment of thy defires, O, man ;
but by no other means under the fcope
of Heaven.
When thy foul fliall be made drunk by the divine ambrofial ne6Iar, then
(hall thy underftanding be more clear than the noontide fun ; —then, by thy
Itrong and fpiritualized intellectual eye, lhalt thou fee into the great treafury
of Nature, and thou fhalt praiie God with thy whole heart ; —then wilt thou
fee the folly of the world and thou fhalt unerringly accomplifh thy defire,
and fhalt poffefs the true Philofophers’ ftone, to the profit of thy neighbour.
1 fay, thou fhalt vifibly and fenfibly, according to thy corporal faculties ;
not
imaginary, not delufively, but real.
Helmont, an author of no mean repute, avouches that he had actually feen
the flone which converts bafe metals into gold ;
that he had feen it with his
eyes, and handled it with his fingers : taken from his own relation of the fa£t ;
notwithflanding Kircher’s declamation againfl the poflibility of obtaining it,
noting them all who profelTed alchymy to be a fet of impoflors and jugglers,
giv ing no better an expofition of their procefs of tranfmutation than this—“ An
Alchymift,” fays Kircher, “ procures or defires a crucible to be brought, wherein
is put lead or any other bafe metal, which, while in fufion, he (the Alchymift)
flirs about with an iron rod, and then,” he fays, “ he drops in, from between his
fingers, a bit of gold ;
and after flirring up for fome time, and effay being
made, gold is found.” This is, indeed, a very lame method of exploding
alchymy •, but, however, to leave Kircher as much in the dark as he was, we
fliall give you Van Helmont’s declaration, a philofopher of much greater note
than thi? pfeudo-chemift Kircher. Van Ilelmont fays—“ I have divers times
handled that flone with my hands, and have feen a real tranfmutation of fale-
able quickfilver with mine eyes, which, in proportion, did exceed the powder
which made the gold in fome thoufand degrees.
“ It was of the colour that is in faffron, being weighty in its powder, and
fhining like bruifecl glafs, when it fhould be the lefs exactly beaten. But
there was once given unto me the fourth part of one grain, (I call, alfo, a
grain
ALGBYMY.
Part I. ALCBYMY. 59
grain the fix hundredth part of an ounce). This powder I involved in wax,
fcraped off a certain letter, left, in catling it into the crucible, it fhould be
difperfed, through the finoak of the coals ;
which pellet of wax I afterwards
call into the three-cornered veffel of a crucible upon a pound of quickfilver, hot
and newly bought ;
and prefently the whole quickfilver, with fome little noife,
flood ftill from flowing, and reftded like a lump ;
but the heat of that argent
vive was as much as might forbid melted lead from recoagulating. The fire
being ftraightway after increafed under the bellows, the metal was melted ;
the
which, the veffel of fufton being broken, I found to weigh eight ounces of the
molt pure gold.
“ Therefore, a computation being made, a grain of that powder doth con-
cert nineteen thoufand two hundred grains of impure and volatile metal, which
^Pobliterable by the fire, into true gold.
“ For that powder, by uniting the aforefaid quickfilver unto itfelf, preferved
the fame, at one inftant, from an eternal ruft, putrefa6lion, death, and torture
of the fire, howfoever moft violent it was, and made it as an immortal thing,
againft any vigour or induftry of art and fire, and tranfchanged it into the
virgin purity of gold ;
at leaftwife one only fire of coals is required herein.”
By which we fee, that fo learned and profound a philofopher as Van
Helmont could not fo eafily have been made to believe that there exifted a pof-
fibility of tranfmutation of bafe metals into pure gold, without he had a6tually
proved the fame by experiment.
Again, let the Handing monuments of Flammel’s liberal bounty to the
poor, through this mean, to be feen at Paris every day, ftand as a teftimony
to the truth of the exifting poflibility of tranfmutation. Likewife, Helmont
mentions a ftone that he faw, and had in his poffeflion, which cured all dif-
orders, the qfiague not excepted. I ftiall relate the circumflance in his own
words, which are as follow :
“ There was a certain Irifhman, whofe name was Butler, being fome time
great with James, King of England, he being detained in the prifon of the
Caftle of Vilvord ;
and taking pity on one Baillius, a certain Francifcan
Monk, a moft famous preacher of Gallo-Britain, who was alfo imprifonech
H 2 having
60 ALCIIYMY. Book I.
having' an erifipelas in his arm ;
on a certain evening, when the Monk did
almoft defpair, he fwiftly tinged a certain little Hone in a fpoonful of almond-
milk, and prefently withdrew it thence. So he fays to the keeper—‘ Reach
this flipping to that Monk ;
and how much foever he fhall take thereupon, he
fnall be whole, at leaH within a fhort hour’s fpace.’ —Which thing even fo came
to pafs, to the great admiration of the keeper and the fick man, not knowing
from whence fo fudden health fhone upon him, feeing that he was ignorant
that he had taken any thing : for his left arm, being before hugely fwollen,
fell down as that it could fcarcely be difcerned from the other. On the morn-
ing following, I, being entreated by fome great men, came to Vilvord, as a
witnefs of his deeds ;
therefore I contracted a friendfhip with Butler.
“ Soon afterwards, I faw a poor old woman, a laundrefs, who, from the
ag'e of fixteen years, had laboured with an intolerable megrim, cured in m^|
prefence. Indeed he, by the way, lightly dipped the fame little Hone in a
fpoonful of oil of olives, and prefently cleanfed the fame Hone by licking- it
with his tongue, and laid it up into his fnuff-box ;
but that fpoonful of oil he
poured into a fmall bottle of oil, whereof one only drop he commanded to
be anointed over the head of the aforefaid old woman, who was thereby
Hraightway cured, and remained whole ;
which I atteH I was amazed, as if he
w as become another Midas •, but he, finding, faid
‘
My moH dear friend, unlefs thou come hitherto, fo as to be able, by one
only remedy, to cure every difeafe,
thou fh alt remain in thy young beginnings,
however old thou flialt become.’—I eafily affented to this, becaufe I had learned
that from the fecrets of Paracelfus ;
and being now more confirmed by fight
and hope. But I willingly confefs, that that new mode of curing was unac-
cuHomed and unknown to me : I therefore faid, that a young Prince of our
Court, Vifcount of Gaunt, brother to the Prince of Epifuoy, of a very great
Houfe, was fo wholly proHrated by the gout, that he thenceforth lay only on
one fide, being wretched, and deformed with many knots : he, therefore,
taking hold of my right hand, faid
—‘ Wilt thou that I cure the young man ?
I will cure him for thy fake.’
—‘ But,’ I replied, ‘ he is of that obflinacy,
that he had rather die, than drink one only medicinal potion.’
{
Be
ALCHYMY, 61
Part I.
<
Be it fo,’ faid Butler ;
‘ for neither do I require any other thing, than
that he do, every morning, touch this little ftone, thou feeft, with the top of
his tongue ;
for after three weeks from thence, let him wafh the painful and
unpainful knots with his own urine, and thou lhalt foon afterwards fee him
cured, and foundly walking. Go thy ways, and tell him, with joy, what I
have faid.’
“ I, therefore, being glad, returned to Bruffels, and told him what Butler
had faid.
“ But the Potentate anfwered—‘ Go, tell Butler that if he lhall reftore me
as thou haft faid, I will give him as much as he fhall require ; —demand the
price, and I will willingly fequefter that which is depofited for his fecurity.’—
And when I declared that thing to Butler, on the day following, he was very
i^rath, and faid—‘ That Prince is mad, or witlefs and miferable, and there-
fore will I never help him : for neither do I ftand in need of his money
neither do I yield—nor am I inferior to him.’—Nor could I ever induce him,
afterwards, to perform what before he had promifed ;
wherefore I began to
doubt whether the things I had before feen were dreams.
“ It happened, in the mean time, that a friend, overfeer and mafter of
the glafs-furnace at Antwerp, being exceeding fat, moft earneftly requefted of
Butler that he might be freed from his fatnefs ; unto whom Butler offered a
fmall piece of that little ftone, that he might once every morning lick, or
fpeedily touch it with the top of his tongue : and, within three weeks, I faw
his breaft made more ftrait, or narrow, by one fpan, and him to have lived
no lefs whole afterwards. Wherefore I began again to believe that the afore-
faid gouty Prince might have been cured, according to the manner Butler
had promifed.
“ In the mean time, I fent to Vilvord, to Butler, for a remedy, in the cafe
of poifon given me by a fecret enemy 5
for I miferably languifhed—all my
joints were pained •, and my pulfe, vehement, being at length become an in-
termitting one, did accompany the faintings of my mind, and extinguifh-
ment of my ftrength.
Butler,
(go ALCHYMY. Book 1,
“ Butler, being; ftill detained in prifon, commanded my houfehold-fervant,
whom I had fent, that forthwith he fhould bring- unto him a fmall bottle of
oil of olives ;
and his little ftone, aforefaid, being- tinged therein, as at other
times, he fent that oil unto me ;
and told the fervant, that with one only fmall
drop of the oil, I fhould anoint only one place of the pain, or all the places,
if f would ;
the which I did, and yet felt no help thereby. In the mean
time, my enemy, according to his lot, being about to die, bade that pardon
fhould be craved of me for his fin ; and fo I knew that I had taken poifon, the
which I fufpefted ; and therefore, alfo, I procured with all care to extinguifh
the flow venom, which, through the grace of God favouring me, I efcaped.
“ Seeing that-; afterwards, many other cures were performed upon certain
gentlewomen, I alked Butler why fo many women fhould be cured, but that
I (while that I fharply conflidted with death itfelf, being alfo environed wkh
pains of all my joints and organs) fhould not feel any eafe ? —But he afited
with what difeafe I had laboured ? —And when he underflood that poifon had
given a beginning to the difeafe, he faid, —that, as the caufe had come from
within to without, the oil ought to be taken into the body, or the ftone to be
touched with the tongue ;
becaufe the grief being cherifhed within, it was not
local or external ;
and alfo obferved, that the oil did, by degrees, uncloath
itfelf with the efficacy of healing, becaufe the little ftone being lightly tinged
in it, it had not pithily charged the oil throughout its whole body, but had
only ennobled it with a delible or obliterable befprinkling of its odour : for
truly that ftone did prefent, in the eyes and tongue, fea-falt fpread abroad, or
rarified and it is fufficiently known that fait is not to be very intimately
mixed with oil.
“ This fame man, alfo, cured an Abbefs, who, for eighteen years, had had
her right arm fwelled, with an entire deprivation of motion, and the fingers
thereof ftiff and unmoveable, only by the touching of her tongue with this
admirable ftone.
“ But very many being prefent witneffes of thefe fame wonders, did fufpedt
fome hidden forcery, or diabolical craft ;
for the common people have it for an
ancient cuftom, that whatfoever honelt thing their ignorance has determined
not
ALCHYMY.
Part I. 63
not to comprehend, they do, for a privy fhift of their ignorance, refer the
fame to be the juggling pf an evil fpirit. But I could never decline fo far,
becaufe the remedy was fuppofed to be natural •, for neither words, cere-
monies, nor any other fufpedted thing, was required. For neither is it lawful,
according to man’s power of underftanding, to refer the glory of God, fhewn
forth in Nature, unto the devil. For none of thofe people had required aid
of Butler, as from necromancy any way fufpedted ;
yea the thing was at firft
made trial of with fmiling, and without faith and confidence ;
yet this eafy
method of curing fhall long remain fufpedted by many ;
for the wit of the
vulgar being inconftant and idle, they do more readily confecrate fo great a
bounty of reftitution unto diabolical contrivance, than to Divine goodnefs,
the framer, lover, faviour, refrether of human nature, and the father of the
poor. And thefe vile prejudices are not only inherent in the common people,
but alfo in thofe that are learned, who rafhly fearch into the beginning of
healing, being not yet inftrudted, or obferving the common and blockith
rules 5
becaufe they are always wife as children, who have never gone over
their mother’s threfhold, being afraid of every fable. For they who have not
hitherto known the whole circuit of difeafes to be included within the fpirit of
life, which maketh the affault ;
or if they hereafter, reading my ftudies by the
way, fhall imprint on themfelves this moment or concernment of healing ;
neverthelefs, becaufe they have been already before accuftomed, from the
very beginnings of their ftudies, to the precepts of the humorifts, they will
eafily, at length, depart from me, and leap back to the favourite bigotry and
ancient opinions of the fchools.”
But now we will haften to the manner of preparation neceflary to qualify a
man for the attainment of thefe fublime gifts.
Of
64 ALCHYMY. Book I.
Of the Preparation of a Man to qualify him for the Search of this Treafire
and of the firfl Matter {prima materia') of the Stone.
LESSON i.
The preparation for this work is fimply this : —Learn to caft away from
thee all vile affections—all levity and inconftancy of mind ; let all thy deal-
ings be free from deceit and hypocrify ; avoid the company of vain young
men ; hate all profligacy, and profane fpeaking.
LESSON II.
Keep thy own, and thy neighbours’ fecrets ;
court not the favours of the
rich ;
defpife not the poor, for he who does will be poorer than the pooreft.
lesson in.
Give to the needy and unfortunate what little thou canft fpare ;
for he that
has but little, whatever he fpares to the miferable, God (hall amply reward him.
lesson iv.
Be merciful to thofe who offend thee, or who have injured thee ;
for what
muff that man’s heart be, who would take heavy vengeance on a flight offence ?
Thou fhalt forgive thy brother until feventy times feven.
LESSON V.
Be not hafty to condemn the actions of others, left thou fhouldft, the
next hour, fall into the very fame error j
defpife fcandal and tattling ;
let thy
words be few.
LESSON
Part I. ALCHYMY. 65
LESSON VI.
Study day and night, and fupplicate thy Creator that he would be pleafed
to grant thee knowledge and underftanding ;
and that the pure fpirits may
have communication with, and influence, in thee.
lesson yn.
Be not overcome with drunkennefs j for, be affured, that half the evils that
befall mankind originate in drunkennefs : for too great a quantity of ftrong
liquors deprive men of their reafon ;
then, having loft the ufe of the faculty of
their judgment, they immediately become the recipient of all evil influences,
and are juftly compared to weathercocks, that are driven hither and thither by
every guft of wind ;
fo thofe who drown the reafonable power, are eafily^per-
fuaded to the lighteft and moft frivolous purfuits, and, from thefe, to vices
more grofs and reprobate ;
for the minifters of darknefs have never fo favour-
able an opportunity of infinuating themfelves into the minds and hearts of
men, as when they are loft in intoxication. I pray you to avoid this dreadful
vice.
LESSON VIII.
Avoid gluttony, and all excefs—it is very pernicious, and from the Devil :
thefe are the things that conftantly tempt man, and by which he falls a prey
to his fpiritual adverfary ;
for he is rendered incapable of receiving any good
or divine gift. Befides, the divine and angelic powers or effences delight not
to be converfant about a man who is defiled, and ftinking with debauchery
and excefs.
lesson ix.
Covet not much gold, but learn to be fatisfied with enough ;
for to defire
more than enough, is to offend the Deity.
Book I. I lesson
66 ALCHYMY. Book I.
LESSON X.
Read often thefe ten preparatory Leffons to fit thee for the great work, and
for the receiving of higher things ;
for the more pure thou art in heart and
mind, by fo much quicker fhall you perceive thofe high fecrets we teach, and
•which are entirely hid from the difcernment of the vicious and depraved, be-
caiife it never can happen that fuch a fource of treafure can be attained merely
to fatisfy our more grofs, earthly, and vain defires and inclinations ;
becaufe
here nothing mull be thought to be grafped, or wrefied out of this book, but
to the fulfilling- of a good end and purpofe. When thou fhalt have fo far
purified thy heart, as we have fpoken is indifpenfably neceffary for the receiv-
ing of every good thing, thou fhalt then fee with other eyes than thou doft at
prefent—thy fpiritual eye will be opened, and thou fhalt read man as plain as
thou writ our books ;
but, for all this, depend not on the ftrength of thy own
wifdom, for even then, when we think our hearts fecure, if we do not watch
them that they fleep not, the Devil, or his minifters, immediately take us at
this unguarded moment, and tempts us into the aftual commiflion of fome fin
or other : either he excites our appetite for lufi and concupifcence, or any
other deadly fin ;
therefore, ufing our blefied Redeemer’s words—“ What 1
fay unto you, I fay unto you all---iwatch 1”
Perhaps, I do not doubt but, there are fome that will fay, when they look
at our works, this fellow is all rant, all preaching—he tells us what we
knew before as well as himfelf. To fuch I fay, let them read our book but
twice ;
if they do not gather fomething that they will acknowledge precious,
(nay, be convinced that it is precious, to their own fatisfadtion) I will burn
thefe writings, and they fhall be no more remembered by me.
To conclude this Part : we fay that the Firft Matter (
Prima Materia)
Adam brought with him out of Paradife, and left it, as an inheritance, to us
his fucceffors ;
had he remained in his original purity, he would have been
permitted to have ufed it himfelf ;
but the eternal fiat was pafled, that he was
to “ earn his bread by the fweat of his brow therefore he could not effect
what was afterwards performed by fome of his offspring.
PIcrmes
ALCIIYMY.
Part I. alchymy. 67
Hermes Trifmegiftus, that ancient philofopher, wrote touching1
the attain-
'
ment of this ftone, which he pronounced to be of all benefit to man, and one
of the greateft bleflings he could poffefs and although his writings contain
much of the excellency of truth, being wrapped up in fuch fymbolical figures,
it renders them exceedingly difficult to be underftood, yet, if comprehended,
they, no doubt, contain fome very great -fecrets by which mortal man may
profit.
Now it belongs to our purpofe to know what it is from which we mull ex-
tract the firft matter of this ftone, to go on with our procefs, becaufe we muft
have materials to work upon ;
for all philofophers agree that, the firft matter
being found, we may proceed without much difficulty. For the firji matter,
(I fhall fpeak as plainly as pofiible) firft, the grand queftion in debate is
Where is it to be found ? —I fay it is to be found in ourfelves. We all poffefs
this firft matter, from the beggar to the king ;
every mothers’ fon carries it
about him ;
and, could our ingenious chemifts but find a procefs for the ex-
tracting, how well would all their labours be repaid. The next queftion na-
turally comes thus—How are we to draw, or attract the fecret matter of the
ftone out of ourfelves ? —Not by any common means 5
and yet it is to be
drawn into very aCtion, and that by the moft fimple means, and in a manner
that the attaining of the philofophers’ ftone would very foon follow it. I
pray you, my friend, look into thyfelf, and endeavour to find out in what
part of thy compofition is the prima materia of the lapis philofophorum, or out
of what part of thy fubftance can the firft matter of our ftone.be drawn out.
Thou fayeft, it muft either be in the hair, fweat, or excrement. I fay in
none of thefe thou fhalt ever be able to find it, and yet thou fhalt find it in
thyfelf.
Many great philofophers and chemifts, whom I have the pleafure to know,
affirm that, admitting of the poftibility of tranfmutation, it (/. e. the
firft matter)
muft be taken from the pureft gold. To this I fay it muft
not ;
neither has it any thing at all to do with extrinfical gold. They will
fay then that the pure ens of gold may be drawn from gold itfelf. True, it
may fo 5 but then I would afk if they could ever produce more gold than
I 2 that
ALCHYMY.
63 ALCHYMY. Book I.
that out of which the foul or offence was extracted ;
if they have, they have
indeed found out a fecret beyond the powers of our comprehenfion ; becaufe it
is agairrft reafon to fuppofe that if a pound of gold yields a drachm of the
foul or effence, that that only will tinge any more than a pound of purified
lead, or $ ; becaufe we have tried various experiments, and I have, in feme
of my firfl effays, turned both lead and mercury into good gold ;
but no more
than that out of which the foul was extracted.' But, however, not to lofe.
our time in vain and ridiculous difputation, know that whatever prodigious
things or experiments have been tried with refpeft to the firfl matter, by ex-
ternal fubjefts, either in the mineral, animal, or vegetable kingdoms, as they
are called, I fay in us is the power of all wonderful things, which the fupreme
Creator has, of his infinita mercy, implanted in our fouls ;
out of her is to be
extradited the firfl matter, the true argent vrve, the g of the philofophers, the
true ens of o ,
viz. a fpiritual living gold, or waterifn mercury, or firfl matter,
which, by being maturated, is capable of tranfmuting a thoufand pts. of impure
metal into good and pcrfe6t gold, which endure fire, tell, or cupel.
PART II.
OF THE MANSER OF EXTRACTING THE FIRST HATTER OF THE PHILOSOPHERS’ STONE, AND
THE USE IT IS PUT TO IN PURIFYING THE IMPERFECT METALS, AND TRANSMUTING
THEM INTO GOOD GOLD.
LESSON XI.
TAKE the foregoing inftruftions as thy principal inftrument, and know
that our foul has the power, .when the body is free, as we before faid, of any
pollution, the heart void of malice and offence ;
I fay the foul is then a free
agent, and has the power, fpiritually and magically, to aft upon any matter
whatfoever ;
therefore I faid the firfl matter is in the foul ;
and the extraditing
of it, is to bring the dormant power of the pure, living, breathing fpirit and
eternal foul into aft. Note well that every agent has its power of adding upon
its
ALCHYMY',
Part I. 69
its patient. Every effence that is diltilled forth is received into a recipient,
but that recipient mutt firlt be made clean. Even fo mull the foul and heart
of man : the vile affe6tions mud be thrown away, and trampled under foot ;
then (halt thou be able to proceed in thy work, which do in the manner
following-.
flfeSSON XII.
The expence thou mull be at will be but a trifle : all the inllruments ne-
ceffary are but three, viz. a crucible, an egg philofophical, and a retort with
its receiver. Put your line gold, in weight about b dwts., file it up, put it
into your philofophic egg, pour upon it the twice of its weight of the bell
Hungarian 5 ,
clofe up the egg with an Hermetic feal, put it for three months
in horfe-dung, take it out at the end of that time, and fee what kind of form
thy gold and $ has alfumed ;
take it out, pour on it half its weight of good
fpirit of fal amraon., fet them in a pot full of fand over the fire in the retort,
let them dillil into a pure elfence, add to one pt. of this $ two pts. of thy
water of life, or prima materia,
put them into thy philofophical egg, and
lesson xfti.
fet them into horfe-dung for another three months ;
then take them out, and fee
what thou hall—a pure etherial elfence, which is the living g-old ;
pour this
pure fpiritual liquor upon a drachm of molten fine gold, and you will find that
which will fatisfy thy. hunger and thirliing- after this fecret ;
for the increafe
of thy gold will feem to thee miraculous, as indeed it is. Take it to a jewel-
ler’s, or goldfmith’s ;
let him try it in thy prefence, and thou wilt have reafon
to blefs God for his mercy to thee. Do thy duty as he hath commanded thee,
and ufe all the benefit thou flialt receive, in actions worthy of thy nature.
lesson xiv.
When thy fpiritual eye is opened, and thou flialt begin to fee to what end
thou wert created, thou flialt want no necelfary thing either for thy comfort or
fupport
ALCHYMY.
70 Book I.
fupport ;
only keep in the rules we have prefcribecl in the beginning' of this
little treatife—Fear God, and love thy neighbour as thyfelf ;
be not haily to
reveal any fecrets thou mayeft learn, for the good fpirits, both day and night,
will be thy inftru61ors, and will continually reveal thee many fecrets. Think
not that thou canft either profit or benefit fo much by the inftru&ion of thofe
who profefs great advantages in claflical education and high fchooling ;
be
affined they are, in fpiritual knowledge, much in the dark : for he who defires
not fpiritual knowledge cannot attain it by any means, but by, firft, coming to
God j
fecondly, by purifying his own heart ;
thirdly, by fubmitting himfelf
to the will of the Holy Spirit, to guide and direct him in all truth, to the
attaining of all knowledge, both human and divine 5
and by arrogating no-
thing to our own power or ftrength, but by referring all to the mercy and
goodnefs of God. Amen.
#
THE
THE
MAGUS;
OR,
CELESTIAL INTELLIGENCER.
CONTAINING
THE CONSTELLATORY PRACTICE,
OR
TALISMANIC MAGIC.
- L_ SHEWING
The true Properties of the Elements, Meteors, Stars, Planets, &c. &rc . ;
likewife the Nature of Intelligences, Spirits, Demons,
and Devils j
the Conllruction and Compofition of all Sorts of Magic Seals, Images, Rings, Glaffes, Pictures, &c. &c. ;
the Power and Compofition of Numbers, Mathematical Figures, and Characters of Spirits both good and evil.
THE WnOLE OF THE ABOVE ILLUSTRATED BY A GREAT VARIETY OF
Beautiful Figures, Types, Letters, Seals, Images,. Magic Characters, fyc.
FORMING A COMPLETE SYSTEM OF
DELIGHTFUL KNOWLEDGE AND ABSTRUSE SCIENCE ;
Such as is warranted never before to have been published in the English Language,
BY FRANCIS BARRETT,
m
STUDENT OF CHEMISTRY, OCCULT PHILOSOPHY, THE CABALA, &C. &C. &C.
~*4.d •
‘
1801.
13
PART THE SECOND.
CHAP. I.
OF THE FOUR ELEMENTS, AND THEIR NATURAL QUALITIES.
It is neceffary that we fhould know and underftand the nature
and quality of the four elements, in order to our being1
perfect in the prin-
ciples and ground-work of our ftudies in the Talifmanic, or Magical Art.
Therefore, there are four elements, the original grounds of all corporeal
things, viz. fire, earth, water, and air, of which elements all inferior bodies
are compounded ;
not by way of being heaped, up together, but by tranfmuta-
tion and union ;
and when they are deftroyed, they are refolved into elements.
But there are none of the fenfible elements that are pure ;
but they are, more
or lefs, mixed, and apt to be changed the one into the other : even as earth,
being moiftened and diffolved, becomes water,
but the fame being made thick
and hard, becomes earth again and being evaporated through heat it pafles
into air, and that being kindled into fire, and this being extinguilhed, into air
again, but being cooled after burning, becomes earth again, or elfe ftone, or
fulphur ;
and this is clearly demonftrated by lightning. Now every one of
thefe elements have two fpecifical properties : the former whereof it retains as
proper to itfelf ;
in the other, as a mean, it agrees with that which comes
directly after it. For fire is hot and dry—earth, cold and dry ; —water, cold
and moift—and air, hot and moift. And fo in this manner the elements, ac-
cording to two contrary qualities, are oppofite one to the other : as fire to
water, and earth to air. Likewife, the elements are contrary one to the other
on another account : two are heavy, as earth and water—and the others are
light, as fire and air ;
therefore the Stoics called the former, paflives—but the
latter, aftives. And Plato diftinguifhes. them after another manner, and
Book I. K affigns
74 TALISMANIC MAGIC. Part II.
alfigns to each of them three qualities, viz. to the fire, brightnefs, thinnefs,
and motion—to the earth, darknefs, thicknefs, and quietnefs ;
and, according
to thefe qualities, the elements of fire and earth are contrary. Now the other
elements borrow their qualities from thefe, fo that the air receives two qualities
from the fire, —thinnefs, and motion ;
and the earth one, viz. darknefs. In like
manner water receives two qualities of the earth, —darknefs and thicknefs ; and
the fire one, viz. motion. But firft is twice as thin as air, thrice more move-
able, and four times brighter ;
the air is twice more bright, thrice more thin,
and four times more moveable. Therefore, as fire is to air, fo is air to water,
and water to the earth ;
and again, as the earth is to the water, fo is water to
air, and air to fire. And this is the root and foundation of all bodies, natures,
and wonderful works ;
and he who can know, and thoroughly underhand thefe
qualities of the elements, and their mixtures, lhall bring to pafs wonderful and
aftonilhing things in magic.
Now each of thefe elements have a threefold confideration, fo that the num-
ber of four may make up the number of twelve ;
and, by palling by the num-
ber of feven into ten, there may be a progrefs to the lupreme unity, upon
which all virtue and wonderful things do depend. Of the firlt order are the
pure elements, which are neither compounded, changed, or mixed, but are
incorruptible ;
and not of which, but through which, the virtues of all natural
things are brought forth to a6l. No man is able fully to declare their vir-
tues, becaufe they can do all things upon all tilings. lie who remains igno-
rant of thefe, lhall never be able to bring to pafs any wonderful matter.
Of the fecond order are elements that are compounded, changeable, and
impure ;
yet fuch as may, by art, be reduced to their pure fimplicity ;
whofe
virtue, when they are thus reduced, doth, above all things, perfe£l all occult
and common operations of Nature *, and thefe are the foundation of the whole
of Natural Magic.
Of the third order, are thofe elements which originally and of themfelves
are not elements, but are twice compounded, various and changeable into
another. Thefe are the infallible medium,
and are called the middle nature,
or
foul of the middle nature ;
very few there are that underhand the deep myf-
teries
Chap. II. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 75
teries thereof. In them is, by means of certain numbers, degrees, and orders,
the perfe6tion of every effe6l in what thing1
foever, whether natural, celejlial*,
or fuperceleltial : they are full of wonders and myfteries, and are operative as
in Magic natural, fo divine. For from thefe, through them, proceeds the
binding, loofmg, and tranfmutation of all things—the knowledge and
foretelling of things to come—alfo, the expelling of evil, and the gaining of
good fpirits. Let no one, therefore, without thefe three forts of elements, and
the true knowledge thereof, be confident that he can work any thing in the
Occult Sciences of Magic and Nature.
But whofoever fhall know how to reduce thofe of one order into another,
impure into pure, compounded into fimple, and fhall underhand diftinHly the
nature,
virtue,
and power of them, in number, degrees, and order, without
dividing the fubftance, he fhall eafily attain to the knowledge and perfe6l
operation of all natural things, and celeftial fecrets likewife ;
and this is the
perfection of the Cabala, which teaches all thefe before mentioned ;
and, by a
perfect knowledge thereof, Ve perform many rare aud wonderful experiments.
CHAP. II.
OF THE PROPERTIES AND WONDERFUL NATURE OF FIRfi AND EARTH. ,
THERE are two things, (fays Hefmes) viz. fire and earth, which are fufficient
for the operation of all wonderful things : the former is a£tive, and the latter
paffive. Fire, in all things and through all things, comes and goes away
bright ;
it is in all things bright, and at the fame time occult, and unknown.
When it is by itfelf (no other matter coming to it, in which it fhould manifefl
its proper a6tion) it is boundlefs and invifible ;
of itfelf fufficient for every
action that is proper to it ; —itfelf is one, and penetrates through all things ;
alfo fpread abroad in the heavens, and fhining. But in the infernal place,
ftraitened, dark, and tormenting ; and in the midway it partakes of both.
It is in Hones, and is drawn out by the ftroke of the Heel ;
it is in earth, and
K 2 caufes
TALISMANIC MAGIC.
76 talismanic magic. Part II.
caufes it, after digging np, to fmoak ;
it is in water, and heats fprings and
wells *, it is in the depths of the fea, and caufes it, being tolfed with the
winds, to be hot ;
it is in the air, and makes it (as we often fee) to burn.
And all animals, and all living things whatfoever, as alfo vegetables, are
preferved by heat ; —and every thing that lives, lives by reafon of the in-
clofed heat. The properties of the fire that is above, are heat, making all
things fruitful ;
and a celeftial light, giving life to all things. The properties
of the infernal fire are a parching heat, confuming all things ;
and darknefs ;
making all things barren. The celefiial and bright fire drives away fpirits of
darknefs ; —alfo, this our fire, made with wood, drives away the fame, in as
much as it hath an analogy with, and is the vehiculum of, that fuperior light ;
as alfo of him who faith, “ 1 am the light of the world,” which is true fire—
the Father of lights, from whom every good thing that is given comes ;
fending forth the light of his fire, and communicating it firft to the fun and
the reft of the celeltial bodies, and by thefe, as by mediating inftruments, con-
veying that light into our fire. As, therefore, the fpirits of darknefs are ftronger
in the dark—fo good fpirits, which are angels of light, are augmented not only
by that light (which is divine, of the fun, and celeftial), but alfo by the light
of our common fire. Hence it was that the firft and moft wife inftitutors of
religions and ceremonies, ordained that prayers, fingings, and all manner of
divine worfhips whatfoever, thould not be performed without lighted candles
or torches : hence, alfo, was that fignificant faying of Pythagoras—“ Do not
fpeak of God without a light !”—And they commanded that, for the driving
away of wicked fpirits, lights and fires Ihould be kindled by the carcaffes of the
dead, and that they fiiould not be removed until the expiations were, after a
holy manner, performed, and then buried. And the great Jehovah himfelf,
in the old law, commanded that all his facrifices Ihould be offered with fire,
and that fire Ihould always be burning upon the altar, which cuftom the
Priefts of the Altar did always obferve and keep amongft the Romans. Now
the bafis and foundation of all the elements is the earth ;
for that is the obje6t,
fubje6t, and receptacle of all celeftial rays and influences : in it are contained
the feeds, and feminal virtues of all things ;
and, therefore, it is faid to be
animal.
Chap. III. . TALISMANIC MAGIC. 77
animal, vegetable, and mineral. It, being made fruitful by the other ele-
ments and the heavens, brings forth all things of itfelf. It receives the abun-
dance of all things, and is, as it were, the firft fountain from whence all
things fpring ; —it is the centre, foundation, and mother of all things. Take
as much of it as you pleafe, feparated, wafhed, depurated, and fubtilized, and,
if you let it lie in the open air a little while, it will, being full and abounding
with heavenly virtues, of itfelf bring forth plants, worms, and other living
things ;
alfo ftones, and bright fparks of tnetals. In it are great fecrets : if,
at any time, it lhall be purified, by the help of fire,* and reduced into its
fimple nature by a convenient walhing, it is the firft matter of our creation,
and the trueft medicine that can reftore and preferve us.
CHAP. III.
OF THE WATER AND AIR.
THE other two elements, viz. water and air, are not lefs efficacious than
the former •, neither is Nature wanting to work wonderful things in them.
There is fo great a neceffity of water, that without it nothing can live
—no herb nor plant whatfoever without the moiltening of water, can bring
forth ;
in it is the feminary virtue of all things, efpecially of animals, whofe
feed is manifeltly wateriffi. The feeds, 'alfo, of trees and plants, although
they are earthy, mutt, notwithflanding, of neceffity be rotted in water before
they can be fruitful ;
whether they be imbibed with the moifture of the earth,
or with dew, or rain, or any other water that is on purpofe put to them.—
For Mofes writes, that only earth and water can bring forth a living foul 5
but he afcribes a two-fold production of things to water, viz. of things fwim-
ming in the water, and of things flying in the air above the earth \ and
* Agrippa here, fpeaking of the element of earth being reduced to its utmoft fimplicity, by being purified
by fire and a convenient wafhing, means, that it is the firft and principal ingredient neceffary to the pro-
duction of the Philofopher’s ftone, either of animals or metals.
that
TALISMANIC MAGIC.
\
78 Part II.
that thofe product ions that are made in and upon the earth are partly attri-
buted to the very water the fame fcripture teftifies, where it faith, that the
plants and the herbs did not grow, becaufe God had not caufed it to rain upon
the earth. Such is the efficacy of this element of water, that fpiritual rege-
neration cannot be done without it, as Chrift himfelf teftified to Nicodemus.
Very great, alfo, is the virtue of it in the religious worfhip of God, in ex-
piations and purifications ;
indeed the neceffity of it is no lefs than
that of fire. Infinite are the benefits, and divers are the ufes, thereof ;
as being
that, by virtue of which all things fubfift, are generated, nouriffied, and in-
creafed. Hence it was that Thales of Miletus, and Hefiod, concluded that
water was the beginning of all things ;
and faid it was the firft of all the
elements, and the moft potent ;
and that^ becaufe it hath the mattery over all
the reft. For, as Pliny faith—u Waters fwallow up the earth—extinguiffi
flames—afcend on high—and, by the ftretching forth of the clouds, challenge
the heavens for their own ;
the fame, falling down, becomes the caufe of all
things that grow in the earth.” Very many are the wonders that are done by
waters, according to the writings of Pliny, Solinus, and many other hif-
torians.
Jofephus alfo makes relation of the wonderful nature of a certain river be-
twixt Arcea and Raphanea, cities of Syria, which runs with a full channel
all the Sabbath-day, and then on a fudden flops, as if the fprings were
flopped, and all the fix days you may pafs over it dry-ffiod ;
but again, on
the feventh day, no man knowing the reafon of it, the waters return again in
abundance as before ! wherefore the inhabitants thereabout called it the Sab-
bath-day River, becaufe of the feventh day, which was holy to the Jews.
The Gofpel, alfo, teftifies of a ffieep-pool, into which whofoever ftepped firft,
after the water was troubled by the Angel, was made whole of whatfoever
difeafe he had. The fame virtue and efficacy, we read, was in a fpring of the
Ionian Nymphs, which was in the territories belonging to the town of Elis,
at a village called Heradea, near the river Citheron, which whofoever ftepped
into, being difeafed, came forth whole, and cured of all his difeafes. Pau-
fanias alfo reports, that in Lyceus, a mountain of Arcadia, there was a
fpring
I
Chap. III. TALISMANIC MAGIC. ,79
fpring called Agria, to which, as often as the drynefs of the region threatened
the defirudtion of fruits, Jupiter, Prieft of Lyceus, went ;
and, after the offer-
ing of facrifices, devoutly praying to the waters of the fpring, holding a
bough of an oak in his hand, put it down to the bottom of the hallowed
fpring ;
then, the waters being troubled, a vapour afcending from thence into
the air, was blown into clouds, which being joined' together, the whole hea-
ven was overfpread ;
which being, a little after, diffolved into rain, watered
all the country molt wholefomely. —Moreover, Ruffus, a phyfician of Ephefus,
befides many other authors, wrote flrange things concerning the wonders of
waters, which, for aught I know, are found in no other author.
It remains, that I fpeak of the air. —This is a vital fpirit paffing through all
beings—giving life and fubfiflence to all things—moving and filling all
things. Plence it is that the Hebrew doctors reckon it not amongfl; the ele-
ments ;
but count it as a medium, or glue, joining things together ; and as
the refounding fpirit of the world’s inflrument. It immediately receives into
itfelf the influence of all celeflial bodies, and then communicates them to the’
other elements, as alfo to all mixed bodies. Alfo, it receives into itfelf, as if
it were a divine looking-glafs, the fpecies of all things, as well natural as
artificial ;
as alfo of all manner of fpeeches, and retains them ;
and carrying
them with it, and entering into the bodies of men, and other animals, through
their pores, makes an -impreffion upon them, as well when they are afleep as
when they are awake, and affords matter for divers flrange dreams and divina-
tions. —Hence, they fay, it is that a man, paffing by a place where a man
was flain, or the carcafs newly hid, is moved with fear and dread ; becaufe
the air, in that place, being full of the dreadful fpecies of man-flaughter,
doth, being breathed in, move and trouble the fpirit of the man with the like
fpecies ;
whence it is that he becomes afraid. For every thing that makes a
fudden impreffion aflonifhes Nature. Whence it is that many philofophers
were of opinion, that air is the caufe of dreams, and of many other impref-
fions of the mind, through the prolonging of images, or fimilitudes, or fpe-
cies (which proceed from things and fpeeches, multiplied in the very air), until
they come to the fenfes, and then to the phantafy and foul of him that receives
them ;
TAUSMANIC MAGIC.
80 Part II.
them ; which, being freed from cares, and no way hindered, expecting to
meet fuch kind of fpecies, is informed by them. For the fpecies of things,
although of their own proper nature they are carried to the fenfes of men,
and other animals in general, may, notwithftanding, get fome impreffion
from the heavens whilft they are in the air ;
by reafon of which, together
with the aptnefs and difpofition of him that receives them, they may be car-
ried to the fenfe of one, rather than of another. And hence it is poffible,
naturally, and far from all manner of fuperftition (no other fpirit coming be-
tween), that a man fhould be able, in a very fmall time, to fignify his mind
unto another man, abiding at a very long and unknown diftance from him
although he cannot precifely give an eftimate of the time when it is, yet, of
neceffity, it mult be within twenty-four hours ; —and I, myfelf, know how
to do it, and have often done it. The fame alfo, in time palt, did the Abbot
Tritemius both know and do. —Alfo, when certain appearances (not only fpi-
ritual, but alfo natural) do flow forth from things, that is to fay, by a cer-
tain kind of flowings forth of bodies from bodies, and do gather llrength in
the air, they Ihew themfelves to us as well through light as motion—as well to
the fight as to other fenfes—and fometimes work wonderful things upon us, as
Platonius proves and teacheth. And we fee how, by the fouth-wind, the air
is condenfed into thin clouds, in which, as in a looking-glafs, are reflected
reprefentations, at a great diftance, of caftles, mountains, horfes, men, and
other things, which, when the clouds are gone, prefently vanilh.—And
Ariftotle, in his Meteors, ffiews that a rainbow is conceived in a cloud of the
air, as in a looking-glafs. —And Albertus fays, that the effigies of bodies may,
by the ftrength of Nature, in a moift air, be eafily reprefented ;
in the fame
manner as the reprefentations of things are in things. —And Ariftotle tells of
a man, to whom it happened, by reafon of the weaknefs of his fight, that the
air that was near to him became, as it were, a looking-glafs to him, and the
optic-beam did refleft back upon himfelf, and could not penetrate the air, fo
that, whitherfoever he went, he thought he faw his own image, with his face
towards him, go before him.—In like manner, by the artificialnefs of fome
certain looking-glafles, may be produced at a diftance, in the air, befides the
looking-
TALISMANIC MAGIC.
Chap. IV. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 81
looking-glaffes, what images we pleafe ;
which, when ignorant men fee, they
think they fee the appearances of fpirits or fouls—when, indeed, they are no-
thing elfe but femblances a-kin to themfelves, and without life. And it is
well-known, if in a dark place, where there is no light but by the coming in
of a beam of the fun fome where through a little hole, a white paper or plain
looking-glafs be fet up againft the light, that there may be feen upon them
whatfoever things are done without, being thined upon by the fun. And there
is another flight or trick yet more wonderful : —if any one fliall take images,
artificially painted, or written letters, and, in a clear night, fet them againft
the beams of the full moon, thofe refemblances being multiplied in the air,
and caught upward, and refledted back together with the beams of the moon,
another man, that is privy to the thing, at a long diftance, fees, reads, and
knows them in the very compafs and circle of the moon ;
which art of de-
claring fecrets is, indeed, very profitable for towns and cities that are*befieged,
being a thing which Pythagoras long fince did, and which is not unknown to
fome in thefe days ;
I will not except myfelf. And all thefe things, and many
more, and much greater than thefe, are grounded in the very nature of the
air, and have their reafons and caufes declared in mathematics and optics.
And as thefe refemblances are refledted back to the fight, fo al£b are they,
fometimes, to the hearing, as is manifeft in echo. But there are many more
fecret arts than thefe, and fuch whereby any one may, at a remarkable diftance,
hear, and underftand diftindtly, what another fpeaks or whifpers.
'
CHAP. IV.
OF COMPOUND, OR MIXED BODIES IN WHAT MANNER THEY RELATE TO THE ELEMENTS
AND HOW THE ELEMENTS RELATE TO THE SOULS, SENSES/ AND DISPOSITIONS OF
MEN.
THE next in order, after the four fimple elements, are the four kinds of
perfedt bodies compounded of them, viz. metals, ftones, plants, and animals
and although in the generation of each of thefe, all the elements combine to-
Book I. L gether
TALISMANIC MAGIC.
82 Part'll.
gether in the compofition, yet every one of them follows and refembles one of
the elements which is moft predominant : for all {tones, being* earthy, are
naturally heavy, and are fo hardened with drynefs that they cannot be melt-
ed ; —but metals are watery, and may be melted, which naturalifts and che-
mifts find to be true, viz,, that they are compofed or generated of a vifeous
water, or watery argent vive. Plants have fuch an affinity with the air,
that unlefs they are out in it, and receive its benefit, they neither flouriffi nor
increafe. So alfo animals, as the Poet finely expreffes it—
“ Have, in their natures, a moft fiery force,
“ And alfo fpring from a celellial fource:”
and fire is fo natural to them that, being extinguiffied, they foon die.
Now, amongft {tones, thofe that are dark and heavy, are called earthy—
thofe which are tranfparent, of the -watery element,
as cryftal, beryl, and
pearls—thofe which fwim upon the water and are fpongious, as the pumice-
ftone, fponge, and fophus, are called airy—and thofe are attributed to the
element of fire, out of which fire is extracted, or which are refolved into fire ;
as thunder-ftones, fire-ftones, affieftos. Alfo, amongft metals ; —lead and
filver are earthy ;
quickfilver is watery •, copper and tin, airy \
gold and iron,
fiery. In plants, alfo, the roots refemble earth—the leaves, water—flowers,
the air—and feed, the fire, by reafon of their multiplying fpirit. Befides,
fome are hot, fome cold, fome moift, others dry, borrowing their names from
the qualities of the elements. Amongft animals, alfo, fome are, in compa-
rifon of others, earthy, becaufe they live in the very bowels of the earth, as
worms, moles, and many other reptiles ;
others watery, as fifh ;
others which
always abide in the air, therefore airy ;
others, again, fiery, as falamanders,
crickets ;
and fuch as are of a fiery heat, as pigeons, oftriches, eagles, lions,
panthers, &c. &c.
Now, in animals, the bones refemble earth—vital fpirit, the fire—flefh, the
air—and humours, the water ; and thefe humours alfo refemble the elements,
viz. yellow choler, the fire—the blood, the air—phlegm, the water—and
black
Chap. V. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 83
black choler, •
or melancholy, the earth. And, laftly, in the foul itfelf, the
underloading refembles the fire—-reafon, the air—imagination, the water—
and the fenfes the earth. And thefe fenfes again are divided amongft them-
felves, according to the elements : for the fight is fiery, beeaide it cannot per-
ceive without the help of fire and light—the hearing is airy, for a found is
made by the firiking of the air—the fmell and tafte refemble water, without
the moifture of which there is neither fmell nor tafte—and, lafily, the feeling
is wholly earthly, becaufe it takes grofs bodies for its objecl. The a6lions,
alfo, and operations of man are governed by the elements : for the earth fig-
nifies a flow and firm motion ;
the water, fearfulnefs, fluggiflinefs, and remilf-
nefs in working ;
air fignifies cheerfulnefs, and an amiable difpofition ;
but
fire, a fierce, working, quick, fufceptible difpofition. The elements are,
therefore, the firft and original matter of all things ;
and all things are of
and according to them ;
and they in and through all things diffufe their
virtues.-
CHAP. V.
THAT THE ELEMENTS ARE IN THE HEAVENS, IN THE STARS, IN DEVILS, ANGELS,
INTELLIGENCES, AND, LASTLY, IN GOD HIMSELF.
IN the original and exemplary world, all things are all in all ;
fo alfo in
this corporeal world. And the elements are not only in thefe inferior things *,
but are in the heavens, in liars, in devils, in angels, and likewife in God
himfelf, the maker and original example of all things.
Now it mull be underllood that in thefe inferior bodies the elements are grofs
and corruptible *, but in the heavens they are, with their natures and virtues,
after a celellial and more excellent manner than in fublunary things : for the
firmnefs of the celellial earth is there without the grolfnefs of water ; and the
agility of air without exceeding its bounds ;
the heat of fire without burning,
only Ihining, giving light and life to all things by its qeleftial heat,—-Now
L 2 amongft
TALISMANIC MAGIC.
84 Part II.
amongft the ftars, or planets, fome are fiery, as Mars, and the Sun—airy, as
Jupiter, and Venus—watery, as Saturn, and Mercury—and earthy, fuch as
inhabit the eighth orb, and the Moon (which by many is accounted watery),
feeing
1
that, as if it were earth, it attracts to itlelf the celeftial waters, with
which being imbibed it does, on account of its proximity to us, pour forth
and communicate to our globe.
There are, likewife, amongft the figns, fome fiery, fome airy, fome watery,
and fome earthy. The elements rule them,
alfo, in the heavens, diftributing
to them thefe four threefold confiderations of every element, according to their
triplicities, viz. the beginning, middle, and end.
Likewife, devils are difiinguithed according to the elements : for fome are
called earthy devils, others fiery, fome airy, and others watery. Hence, alfo,
thofe four infernal rivers : fiery Phlegethon, airy Cocytus, watery Styx, earthy
Acheron. Alfo, in the Gofpel, we read of comparifons of the elements : as
hell fire, and eternal fire, into which the curfed fhall be commanded to go ;
and in Revelations, of a lake of fire ; —and Ifaiah, fpeaking of the damned,
fays that the Lord will finite them with corrupt air ; —and in Job, they fhall
fkip from the waters of the fnow to the extremity of heat ;
and, in the fame,
we read, that the earth is dark, and covered with the darknefs of death, and
miferable darknefs.
And thefe elements are placed in the angels of heaven, and the bleffed in-
telligences : there is in them a liability of their effence, which is an earthy
virtue, in which is the fledfafl feat of God. By the Pfalmift they are called
waters, where he fays— -“ Who rulefl the waters that are higher than the
heavens j”—alfo, in them their fubtile breath is air, and their love is fhining
fire ;
hence they are called in Scripture, the wings of the wind ;
and, in an-
other place, the Pfalmift fpeaks of them thus—“ Who makeft angels thy fpirits,
and thy minifters a flaming fire!”—Alfo, according to the different orders of
fpirits or angels, fome are fiery, as feraphims, authorities, and powers
earthy, as cherubim—watery, as thrones and archangels—airy, as dominions
and principalities.
And
f
TALISMANIC MAGIC. 85
Chap. VI. iamU1u.wv x,x^xx~.
And do we not read of the original Maker of all things, that the earth (hall
be opened and bring forth a Saviour ? —Likewife it is fpoken of the fame,
that he fhall be a fountain of living water, cleanfmg and regenerating ;
and
the fame fpirit breathing the breath of life ;
and the. fame, according to Mofes
and Paul’s teflimony—a confirming fire.
That the elements are, therefore, to be found every where, and in all things,
after their manner, no man will dare to deny : firlt, in thefe inferior bodies,
feculent and grofs ; and in celeftials, more pure and clear ;
but in fuper-
celeftials, living, and in all refpebts bleffed. Elements, therefore, in the
exemplary world, are ideas of things to be produced ;
in intelligences, they
are diftributed powers ; in the heavens, they are virtues ;
and in inferior bodies,
are grofs forms.
CHAP. VI.
THAT THE WISDOM OF GOD WORKS BY THE MEDIUM OF SECOND CAUSES (i. E. BY THE
INTELLIGENCES, BY THE HEAVENS, ELEMENTS, AND CELESTIAL BODIES) IS PROVED
BEYOND DISPUTE IN THIS CHAPTER.
IT is to be noted, that God, in the firft place, is the end and beginning of
all virtues : he gives the fieal of the ideas to his fervants, the intelligencesy
who, as faithful officers, Jign all things entrufted to them with an ideal virtue
the heavens and ftars, as inftruments, difpofing the matter, in the mean while,
for the receiving of thofe forms which refide in Divine Majefty, and to be con-
veyed by ftars. And the Giver of forms diftributes them by the miniftry
of his intelligences, which he has ordained as rulers and comptrollers over his
works ;
to whom fuch a power is entrufted, in things committed to them, that
fo all virtue in ftones, herbs, metals, and all other things, may come from the
intelligences, the governors.- Therefore the form and virtue of things come
firft from the ideas—then from the ruling and governing intelligences—-they
from the afpetfts of the heavens difpofing—and, laftly, from the tempers of
the
86 talismanic magic. Part II.
the elements difpofed, anfwering the influences of the heavens, by which the
elements themfelves are ordered or difpofed. Thefe kinds ol operations, there-
fore, are performed in thefe inferior things by exprefs forms ;
and in the hea-
vens, by difpofing virtues ; in intelligences, by mediating rules ;
in the ori-
ginal caufe, by ideas and exemplary forms ;
all which mult of neceffity agree
in the execution of the efledt and virtue of every thing.
There is, therefore, a wonderful virtue and operation in every herb and
Hone, but greater in a ftar ;
beyond which, even from the governing intelli-
gences, every thing receives and obtains many things for itfelf, efpecially
from the Supreme Caufe, with whom all things mutually and exactly corref-
pond, agreeing in an harmonious confent.
Therefore there is no other caufe of the neceffity of effects, than the con-
nection of all tilings with the Firft Caufe, and their correfpondency with thofe
divine patterns and eternal ideas, whence every thing hath its determinate and
particular place in the exemplary world, from whence it lives and receives its
original being ;
and every virtue of herbs, {tones, metals, animals, words,
fpeeches, and all things that are of God, are placed there.
Now the Firft Caufe (which is God), although he doth, by intelligences
and the heavens, work upon thefe inferior things, does fometimes (thefe me-
diums being laid afide, or their officiating being fufpended) work thofe things
immediately by himfelf—which works are then called miracles. But whereas
fecondary caufes do, by the command and appointment of the Firft Caufe,
neceflarily a6f, and are neceffitated to produce their efledts ;
if God {hall,
notwithftanding, according to his pleafure, fo difeharge and fufpend them that
they {hall wholly defift from the neceffity of that command, then they are
called the greateft miracles of God. For inltance : the fire of the Chaldean
furnace did not burn the children ;
the fun flood flill at the command of
Jofliua, and became retrograde one whole day ;
alfo, at the prayer of Ideze-
kiab, it went back ten degrees ;
and when our Saviour Chrifl was crucified,
it became darkened, though at full moon.
And
Chap. VII. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 87
And the reafon of thefe operations can by no rational difcourfe, no magic
or fcience, occult or profound foever, be found out or underttood ;
but are to
be learned by Divine oracles only.* -
CHAP. VII.
OF THE SPIRIT OF *TIIE WORLD.
NOW feeing that the foul is the effential form, intelligible and incorrupti-
ble, and is the firft mover of the body, and is moved of itfelf ;
but that the
body, or matter, is of itfelf unable and unfit for motion, and does very much
degenerate from the foul,, it appears that there is need of a more excellent
medium : —now fuch a medium is conceived to be the fpirit of the world, or
that which fome call a quinteffence ;
becaufe it is not from the four elements,
but a certain jirjl thing, having its being above and befide them. There is,
therefore, fuch a kind of medium required to be, by which celeftial fouls may be
joined to grofs bodies, and bellow upon them wonderful gifts. This fpirit is,
in the fame manner, in the body of the world, as our fpirit is in our bodies r
for as the powers of our foul are communicated to the members of the body by
the medium of the fpirit, fo alfo the virtue of the foul of the world is diffufed,
throughout all things, by the medium of the univerfal fpirit •, for there is
nothing to be found in the whole world that hath not a fpark of the virtue
thereof. Now this fpirit is received into things, more or lefs, by the rays of
the liars, fo far as things are difpofed, or made fit recipients of it. By this
fpirit, therefore, every occult property is conveyed into herbs, Hones, metals,
and animals, through the fun, moon, planets, and through liars higher than
the planets. Now this fpirit may be more advantageous to us if we knew
how to feparate it from the elements j
or, at lealt, to ufe thofe things chiefly
*
The foregoing Chapter, if well confidered, will open the intellefi to a more ealy comprehenfion of the
Magical Science of Nature, &c. ; and will facilitate, in a wonderful degree, our (ludies in thefe fublime
myfleriesv
which
88 TALISMANIC MAGIC, Part II.
which are moft abounding’ with this fpirit. For thofe things in, which the
Ipirit is lefs drowned in a body, and lefs checked by matter, do much more
powerfully and perfectly afit, and alfo more readily generate their like ; for
in it are all generative and feminal virtues. For which caufe the alchymift
endeavours to feparate this fpirit from gold and filver, which, being rightly
feparated and extracted, if it (hall be afterwards projected upon any metal, turns
it into gold or filver ; which is no way impoflible or improbable, when we
conlider that by art that may be done in a fhort time, what Nature, in the
bowels of the earth (as in a matrix), perfects in a very long fpace of time.
CHAP VIII.
or THE SEXES AND CHARACTERS IMPRESSED BY CELESTIALS UPON NATURAL THINGS.
ALL ftars have their peculiar natures, properties, and conditions, the feals
and characters whereof they produce through their rays even in thefe inferior
things, viz. in elements, in Hones, in plants, in animals, and their members i
whence every thing receives from an harmonious difpofition, and from its flar
Ihining upon it, fome particular feal or character ftamped upon it, which is
the lignificator of that ftar or harmony, containing in it a peculiar virtue,
different from other virtues of the fame matter, both generically, fpecifically,
and numerically. Every thing, therefore, hath its character impreffed upon
it by its Jiar for fome peculiar effeCt, efpecially by that ftar which doth
principally govern it 5
and thefe characters contain in them the particular natures,
yirtues, and roots of their ftars, and produce the like operations upon other things
on which they are reflected •, and ftir up and help the influences of their ftars,
whether they be planets, or fixed ftars and figures, or celeftial conftellations,
viz. as often as they fhall be made in a fit matter, and in their due and accuf-
tomed times ;
which the ancient wife men (confidering fuch as laboured much
in finding out occult properties of things) did fet down, in writing, the
images of the ftars, their figures, feals, marks, characters, fuch as Nature her-
felf did defcribe by the rays of the ftars in thefe inferior bodies : fome in
* ftones,
TALISMAN IC MAGIC.
Chap. IX. TALISMAN IC MAGIC. 89
ftones, fome in plants, fome in joints and knots of trees and their boughs, and fome
in various members of animals. For the bay-tree, lote-tree, and marigold, are
folary herbs, and, their roots and knots being cut, they fhew the characters of
the fun ;
and in ftones the characters and images of celeftial things are often
found. But there being fo great a diverfity of things, there is only a tradi-
tional knowledge of a few things which human underftanding is able to
reach ;
therefore very few of thofe things are known to us, which the ancient
philofophers and chiromancers attained to, partly by reafon and partly by ex-
perience •, and there yet lie hid many things in the treafury of Nature, which
the diligent fludent and wife fearcher fhall contemplate and difcover.
CHAP IX.
TREATING OF THE VIRTUE AND EFFICACY OF PERFUMES, OR SUFFUMIGATIONS, AND VA-
POURS; AND TO WHAT PLANETS THEY ARE PROPERLY AND RIGHTLY ATTRIBUTED.
IT is necelfary, before we come to the operative or practical part of
Talifmanic Magic, to fhew the compofitions of fumes or vapours, that are
proper to the liars, and are of great force for the opportunely receiving of
celeftial gifts, under the rays of the ftars—inafmuch as they ftrongly work
upon the air and breath ;
for our breath is very much changed by fuch kind
of vapours, if both vapours be of the other like. The air being alfo, through
the faid vapours, eafily moved, or infeCted with the qualities of inferiors, or
celeftial (daily quickly penetrating our breaft and vitals), does wonderfully
reduce us to the like qualities. Let no man wonder how great things fuffumi-
gations can do in the air ;
efpecially when they fhall, with Porphyry, con-
fider that, by certain vapours exhaled from proper fuffumigations, aerial fpirits
are raifed *, alfo thunder and lightnings, and the like : as the liver of a
cameleon, being burnt on the houfe top, will raife fhowers and lightnings ;
the fame effeCt has the head and throat, if they are burnt with oaken wood.
There are fome fuffumigations under the influences of the ftars, that caufe
Book I. M images,
90 TALISMAN IC MAGIC, Part II
images of fpirits to appear in the air, or elfewhere : for if coriander, fmallage,
henbane, and hemlock be made to fume, by invocations fpirits will foon come
together, being attracted by the vapours which are moft congruous to their
own natures ; hence they are called the herbs of the fpirits. Alfo it is faid,
that if a fume be made of the root of the reedy herb fagapen, with the juice
of hemlock and henbane, and the herb tapfus barbatus, red fanders, and black
poppy, it will likewife make flrange {napes appear ;
but if a fuffume be made
of fmallage, it chafes them away, and deflroys their vifions. Again, if a
perfume be made of calamint, piony, mint, and palma chrifti, it drives away
all evil fpirits and vain imaginations. Likewife, by certain fumes, animals
are gathered together, and put to flight. Pliny mentions concerning the ftone
liparis, that, with the fume thereof, all beads are attracted together. The
bones in the upper part of the throat of a hart, being burnt, bring ferpents
together ; but the horn of the hart, being burnt, chafes away the fame ;
like-
wife, a fume of peacock’s feathers does the fame. Alfo, the lungs of an afs,
being burnt, puts all poifonous things to flight ;
and the fume of the burnt
hoof of a horfe drives away mice ;
the fame does the hoof of a mule ;
and
with the hoof of the left-foot flies are driven away. And if a houfe, or any
place, be fmoaked with the gall of a cultle-fjh ,
made into a confection with
red ftorax, rofes, and lignum aloes, and then there be fome fea-water or blood
caft into that place, the whole houfe will feem to be full of water or blood.
Now fuch kind of vapours as thefe, we muft conceive, do infeCt a body, and
infufe a virtue into it which continues long, even as the poifonous vapour of the
peftilence, being kept for two years in the walls of a houfe, infeCts the inha-
bitants -, and as the contagion of pelt or leprofy lying hid in a garment, will,
long after, infedl him that wears it.
Now there are certain fuffumigations ufed to almoft all our inftruments.
of magic (of which hereafter), fuch as images, rings, &c. For fome of the
magicians fay, that if any one {hall hide gold,, or fllver, or any other fuch
like precious thing (the moon being in conjunction with the fun), and {hall
perfume the place with coriander, fajfron, henbane,
fmallage, and black
poppy, of each the fame quantity and bruifed together, and tempered with
the
Chap. IX. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 91
the juice of hemlock, that thing- which is fo hid fhall never be taken away
therefrom, but that fpirits fhall continually keep it ; and if any one fhall en-
deavour to take it away by force, they fliall be hurt, or ftruck with a frenzy.
And Hermes fays, there is nothing like the fume of fpermaceti for the rafting
up of fpirits ;
therefore, if a fume be made of that, lig-num aloes, pepper-
wort, mulk, faffron, and red ftorax, tempered together with the blood of a
lapwing or bat, it will quickly gather airy fpirits to the place where it is ufed ;
and if it be ufed about the graves of the dead, it will attrafil fpirits and ghofls
thither.
Now the ufe of fuffumigations is this : that whenever we fet about making
any talifinan, image, or the like, under the rule or dominion of any liar or
planet, we lhould by no means omit the making of a fuffumigation appro-
priate to that planet or conltellation under which we defire to work any effe6l
or wonderful operation ;
as for inltance : —when we direct any work to the
fun, we mutt fuffume with folary things ;
if to the moon, with lunary things
and fo of the reft. And we muft be careful to obferve, that as there is a con-
trariety, or antipathy, in the natures of the ftars and planets and their fpirits,
fo there is alfo in fuffumigations : —for there is an antipathy between lignum
aloes and fulphur frankincenfe and quickftlver j
and fpirits that are raifed by
the fume of lignum aloes, are laid by the burning of fulphur. For the learn-
ed Proclus gives an example of a fpirit that appeared in the form of a lion,
furious and raging : by fetting a white cock before the apparition it foon
vanifhed away ; becaufe there is fo great a contrariety between a cock and a
lion and let this fuffice for a general obfervation in thefe kind of things.
We fliall proceed with fhewing diftin6lly the compofttion of the feveral fumes
appropriated to the feven planets.
M 2 CHAP.
1
92
OP TIIE COMPOSITION
THE SUN. O
WE make a fuffumigation for the fun in this manner :
Take of faffron, ambergris, mufk, lignum aloes, lignum balfam, the fruit of
the laurel, cloves, myrrh, and frankincenfe, of each a like quantity ;
all of which
being bruifed, and mixed together, fo as to make a fweet odour, mull be in-
corporated with the brain of an eagle, or the blood of a white cock, after the
manner of pills, or troches.
THE MOON. 3
For the moon, we make a fuffume of the head of a frog dried, the eyes of a
bull, the feed of white poppies, frankincenfe, and camphire, which muft be in-
corporated with mendruous blood, or the blood of a goofe.
SATURN. h
For faturn, take the feed of black poppies, henbane, mandrake root, load-
done, and myrrh, and mix them up with the brain of a cat and the blood
of a bat. ,
JUPITER. U
Take the feed of afh, lignum aloes, dorax, the gum Benjamin, the lapis
lazuli, the tops of peacocks’ feathers, and incorporate with the blood of a dork,
or fwallow, or the brain of a hart.
. mars. S
Take uphorbium, bdellium, gum armoniac, the roots of both hellebores,
the loaddone, and a little fulphur, and incorporate them altogether with the
brain of a hart, the blood of a man, and the blood of a black cat»
TALISMANIC MAGIC. Part II,
.
CHAP. X.
OP SOME PERFUMES APPROPRIATED TO THE SEVEN PLANETS,
VENUS.
Chap. X. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 93
VENUS. 9
Take mulk, ambergris, lignum aloes, red rofes, and red coral, and make
them up with fparrow’s brains and pigeon’s blood.
MERCURY. 8
Take maftich, frankincenfe, cloves, and the herb cinquefoil, and the agate
{tone, and incorporate them all with the brain of a fox, or weafel, and the
blood of a magpie.
GENERAL FUMES OF THE PLANETS.
To Saturn are appropriated for fumes, odoriferous roots : as pepper-wort
root, &c., and the frankincenfe tree. To Jupiter, all odoriferous fruits : as
nutmegs, cloves, &c. To Mars, all odoriferous woods : as fanders, Cyprus,
lignum baifam, and lignum aloes. To the Sun, all gums : as frankincenfe,
maftich benjamin, ftorax, laudanum, ambergris, and mufk. To Venus,
flowers : as rofes, violets, faffron, and the lil<^. To Mercury, all the parings
of wood or fruit : as cinnamon, lignum caflia, mace, citron peel, and bay-
berries, and whatever feeds are odoriferous. To the Moon, the leaves of all
vegetables : as the leaf indum, the leaf of the myrtle, and bay tree. Know,
alfo, that, according to the opinion of all magicians, in every good matter
(as love, good-will, &c.), there muft be a good perfume, odoriferous and pre-
cious ; —and in evil matters (as hatred, anger, mifery, and the like), there
muft be made a ftinking fume that is of no worth..
The twelve Signs of the Zodiac alfo have their proper fuffumigations viz.,
Aries, myrrh ; Taurus, pepper-wort Gemini, majhch ; Cancer, camjihire ;
Leo, franhincenfe , Virgo, fanders ; Libra, galbanum ; Scorpio, oppoponax;
Sagittarius, lignum aloes Capricorn, benjamin Aquarius, cuphorbium •> Pifces,
red fiorax. But Hermes defcribes the moft powerful fume to be, that
which is compounded of the feven aromatics, according to the powers of the
feven planets : for it receives from Saturn, pepper-wort $
from Jupiter, nut-
meg j
94 TALISMANIC MAGIC, Part II.
meg-,; from Mars,
lignum-aloes ;
from the Sun, maftich ; from Venus, faf-
fron ;
from Mercury, cinnamon ;
and from the Moon, myrtle.
By a clofe obfervation of the above order of fuffumigations, conjoined with
other things, of which we fhall fpeak hereafter (neceffary to the full accomplifh-
merit of Talifmanic Magic), many wonderful effects may be caufed, efpecially if
we keep in eye what was delivered in the firft part of our Magic, viz. that the
foul of the operator mull go along with this ;
otherwife, in vain is fuffumiga-
llon, feal, ring, image, [ii£ture, glafs, or any other inftrument of magic :
feeing that it is not merely the difpofition, but the act of the difpofition, and
firm and powerful intent or imagination, that gives the effect,.—We thall now
liaften to fpeak, generally, of the conftru&ion of rings magical, and their
wonderful and potent virtues and operations.
CHAP. XI.
OF THE COMPOSITION AND MAGIC VIRTUE OF RINGS.
RINGS, when they are opportunely made, imprefs their virtues upon us,
infomuch that they affeft the fpirit of him that carries them with gladnefs or fad-
nefs ; and render him bold or fearful, courteous or terrible, amiable or hateful ;
inafmuch, alfo, as they fortify us againft * ficknefs, poifons, enemies, evil fpirits,
and all manner of hurtful things ;
and often, where the law has no effect, thefe
little trifles greatly aflift and corroborate the troubled fpirit of the wearer, and
help him, in a wonderful manner, to overcome his adverfaries, while they do won-
der how it is that they cannot effect any hurtful undertaking againft him.
Thefe things, I fay, are great helps againft -Wrathful, vicious, wordly-minded
men, inafmuch as they do terrify, hurt, and render invalid the machinations of
thofe who would otherwife work our mifery or deftruftion. All which we are
neither afraid nor afhamed to declare, well knowing that thefe things will be
hid from the wicked and profane, fo as that they cannot draw the fame into
* The Author will engage to teach any that are curious in thofe Ihidies, the particular compofition of
Talifmanic Rings ;
whereby they may be enabled to judge themfelves of the effects that are to be produced
by them.
any
Chap. XI, TALISMANIC MAGIC. 95
any abufe, or privy mifchief toward their neighbour ;
we having referved fome
few things in this art to ourfelves—not willing to throw pearls before fwine.
And however Ample and plain we may defcribe fome certain experiments and
operations (fo as that the great-mouthed fchool philofophers may mutter or feoff
thereat), yet there is nothing delivered in this book but what may be, by an
underftanding thereof, brought into effeCt,. and, likewife, out of which fome
good may be derived. But to proceed.
The manner of making of thefe rings is thus - when any ftar afeends in
the horofeope (fortunately), with a fortunate afpeft or conjunction of the
moon, we proceed to take a Jione and herb, that is under that ftar, and like-
wife make a ring of the metal that is correfponding to the ftar ;
and in the
ring, under the ftone, put the herb or root, not forgetting to inferibe the
effect, image, name, and character, as alfo the proper fuffurne. But I fhail
fpeak more of thefe in another place, where 1 fpeak of images and characters.
Therefore, in making of rings magical, thefe things are unerringly to be ob-
ferved as we have ordered 5
—if any one is willing to work any effeCt or expe-
riment in magic, he muft by no means negleCt the neceffary circumftances
which we have fo uniformly delivered. I have read, in Philoftratus Jarchus,
that a Prince of the Indians bellowed feven rings, marked with the virtues and
names of the feven planets, to Appollonius, of which he wore one every day,'
diftinguilhing according to the names of the days -, by the benefit of which
he lived above one hundred and thirty years, as alfo always retained the beauty
of his youth. In like manner, Mofes, the Lawgiver and Ruler of the He-
brews, being Ikilled in the Egyptian Magic, is faid, by Jofephus, to have
made rings of love and oblivion. There was alfo, as faith Ariftotle, among
the Cireneans, a ring of Battas, which could procure love and honour. We
read, alfo, that Eudamus, a certain philofopher, made rings again!! the bites
of ferpents, bewitchings, and evil fpirits. The fame doth Jofephus relate of
Solomon. Alfo we read, in Plato, that Gygus, King of Lydia, had a
ring of wonderful and ftrange virtues ;
the feal of which, when he turned
it towards the palm of his hand, no body could fee him, but he could fee all
things j, by the opportunity of which ring, he ravilhed the Queen, and flew
the
TALISMANI G MAGIC.
96 Part II.
the King his matter, and killed whomfoever he thought flood in his way ; and
in thefe villanies nobody could fee him ;
and at length, by the benefit of this
ring, he became King of Lydia.*
CHAP. XII.
THAT THE PASSIONS OF THE MIND ARE ASSISTED BY CELESTIALS AND THAT CON-
STANCY OF MIND IS IN EVERY WORK NECESSARY.
THE paflions of the mind are much helped, and are helpful, and become
moft powerful, by virtue of the heaven, as they agree with the heaven—either
by any natural agreement, or voluntary election ;
for, as Ptolemy fays, he
who chufeth that which is the better, feems to differ nothing from him who
hath this of Nature. It conduceth, therefore, very much for the receiving the
benefit of the heavens, in any work, if we fliall, by the heaven, make our-
felves fuitable to it in our thoughts, affe&ions, imaginations, elections, deli-
berations, contemplations, and the like. For fuch like paflions vehemently
flir up our fpirit to their likenefs, and fuddenly expofe us, and our’s, to the
fuperior fignificators of fuch like paflions ;
and alfo, by reafon of their dig-
nity and nearnefs to the fuperiors, do partake more of the celeftials than any
material things ;
for our mind can, through imaginations or reafon by a kind
of imitation, be fo conformed to any ftar, as fuddenly to be filled with the
virtues of that ftar, as if we were a proper receptacle of the influence thereof.
Now the contemplating mind, as it withdraws itfelf from all fenfe, imagina-
tion,
nature,
and deliberation,
and calls itfelf back to things feparated, effeCts
divers things by faith, which is a firm adhetton, a fixed intention, and vehe-
ment application of the worker or receiver to him that co-operates in any
thing, and gives power to the work which we intend to do. So that there is
* We have above fliewn the power and virtue of magical rings; but the particular chara&ers, infcriptions,
and images to be made in, or upon them, we refer the ftudent to that chapter treating of “ The Compofition
of various Talifmacs in which we have defcribed exactly the exprefs methods of perfe&ing them.
made,
Chap. XIII. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 97
made, as it were, in us the image of the virtue to be received, and the thing'
to be done in us, or by us. We muft, therefore, in every work and applica-
tion of things, affe£t vehemently, imagine, hope, and believe ftrongly, for
that will be a great help. And it is verified amongft phyficians, that a ftrong
belief, and an undoubted hope, and love towards the phyfician, conduce much
to health, yea more fometimes than the medicine itfelf ;
for the fame that the
efficacy and virtue of the medicine works, the fame doth the ftrong imagina-
tion of the phyfician work, being able to change the qualities of the body of
the fick, efpecially when the patient places much confidence in the phyfician,
by that means difpofing himfelf for the receiving the virtue of the phyfician
and phyfic. Therefore, he that works in magic muft be of a conftant belief,
be credulous, and not at all doubt of the obtaining of the effect ;
for as a firm
and ftrong belief doth work wonderful things, although it be in falfe works
fo diftruft and doubting doth diffipate and break the virtue of the mind of the
worker, which is the medium betwixt both extremes ; whence it happens that
he is fruftrated of the defired influence of the fuperiors, which could not be
enjoined and united to our labours without a firm and folid virtue of our
mind.
CHAP. XIII.
HOW man’s MIND MAY BE JOINED WITH THE MIND OF INTELLIGENCES AND CELESTIALS,
AND, TOGETHER WITH THEM, IMPRESS CERTAIN WONDERFUL VIRTUES UPON INFERIOR
THINGS.
THE philofophers, efpecially the Arabians, fay, that man’s mind, when
it is moft intent upon any work, through its paffion and effects, is joined with
the mind of the liars and intelligences, and, being fo joined, is the caufe that
fome wonderful virtue be infufed into our works and things ; and this, as be-
caufe there is in it an apprehenflon and power of all things, fo becaufe all
things have a natural obedience to it, and of neceffity an efficacy, and more
Book I. N to
TALISMANIC MAGIC.
9S Part II.
to that which defired them with a ftrong defire. And according to this is
verified the art of characters, images, enchantments, and fome fpee^hes, and
many other wonderful experiments, to every thing which the mind affeCts.
By this means, whatfoever the mind of him that is in vehement love affeCts,
hath an efficacy to caufe love •, and whatfoever the mind of him that ftrongly
hates, dictates, hath an efficacy to hurt and deftroy. The like is in other
things which the mind affeCts with a ftrong defire -, for all thofe things which
the mind aCts, and dictates by characters, figures,
-words , ffeeches,
geflures,
and the lihe,
help the appetite of the foul, and acquire certain wonderful
virtues from the foul of the operator, in that hour when fuch a like appetite
doth invade it ;
fo from the opportunity and celeftial influence, moving the
mind in this or that manner : for our mind, when it is carried upon the great
excefs of any paflion or virtue, oftentimes takes to itfelf a ftrong, better and
more convenient hour or opportunity ; which Thomas Aquinas, in his third
book againft the Gentiles, allows. So, many wonderful virtues both caufe
and follow certain admirable operations by great affeCtions, in thofe things
which the foul doth dictate in that hour to them. But know, that fuch kind
of things confer nothing, or very little, but to the author of them, and to
him who is inclined to them, as if he were the author of them ;
and this is
the manner by which their efficacy is found out. And it is a general rule in
them, that every mind, that is more excellent in its defire and affeCtion, makes
fuch like things more fit for itfelf, as alfo efficacious to that which it delires.
Every one, therefore, that is willing to work in magic, muft know the
virtue, meafure, order,
and degree of his own foul in the power of the
univerfe.
CHAP.
Chap. XIV. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 99
CHAP. XIV.
SHEWING THE NECESSITY OF MATHEMATICAL KNOWLEDGE, AND OF THE GREAT POWER
AND EFFICACY OF NUMBERS IN THE CONSTRUCTION OF TALISMANS, &C.
THE do6trines of mathematics are fo neceffary to and have fuch an affinity
with magic, that they who profefs it without them are quite out of the way,
and labour in vain, and {hall in no wife obtain their defired effeft. For what-
foever things are, and are done in thefe inferior natural virtues, are all done
and governed by number,
weight, ?neafure, harmony,
motion, and light : and
all things which we fee in thefe inferiors have root and foundation in them ;
yet, neverthelefs, without natural virtues of mathematical doctrines, only
works like to naturals can be produced : as. Plato faith—a thing not partaking
of truth or divinity, but certain imag'es akin to them (as bodies going, or
fpeaking, which yet want the animal faculty), fuch as were thofe which,
amongft the ancients, were called Dedalus’s images, and uvro^aTcc, of which
Arillotle makes mention, viz. the three-footed images of Vulcan and Dedalus
moving themfelves ;
which, Homer faith, came out of their own accord to the
exercife ; and which, we read, moved themfelves at the feaft of Hiarba, the
philofophical exercifer. So there are made glaffes (fome concave, others of the
form of a column) making the reprefentation of things in the air feem like
fhadows at a diftance ; of which fort Apollonius and Vitellius, in their books,
“ De Profpe6tiva,” and “ Speculis,” taught the making and the ufe. And.
we read that Magnus Pompeius brought a certain glafs, amongft the fpoils from
the Eaft, to Rome, in which were feen armies of armed men. And there are
made certain tranfparent glaffes, which (being dipped in fome certain juices of
herbs, and irradiated with an artificial light) fill the whole air round about
with vifions. And we know how to make reciprocal glaffes, in which the fun
fhining, all things which were illuftrated by the rays thereof are apparently
feen many miles off. Hence a magician (expert in natural philofophy and
mathematics, and knowing the middle fciences, confifting of both thefe, viz.
arithmetic, mufic, geometry, optics, aftronomy, and fuch fciences that are of
N 2 weights,
100 TALISMANIC MAGIC. Fart II.
weights, meafures, proportions, articles, and joints 5
knowing, alfo, mecha-
nical arts refulting from thefe) may, without any wonder, if he excel other
men in the art and wit, do many wonderful things, which men may much
admire. There are fome relics now extant of the antients, viz. Hercules and
Alexander’s pillars ;
the gate of Cafpia, made of brafs, and fhut with iron
beams, that it could by no art be broken ;
and the pyramis of Julius Casfar,
crefted at Rome, near the hill Vaticanus ;
and mountains built by art in
the middle of the fea ;
and towers, and heaps of hones, fuch as I have feen
in England, put together by incredible art. But the vulgar feeing any won-
derful fight, impute it to the Devil as his work ;
or think that a miracle
which, indeed, is a work of natural or mathematical philofophy. But here it is
convenient that you know, that, as by natural virtues we collect natural virtues,
fo by abftra6led, mathematical, and celeftial, we receive celeftial virtues : as mo-
tion, fenfe, life, fpeech, foothfaying, and divination, even in matter lefs difpofed,
as that which is not made by nature, but only by art. And fo images that
fpeak, and foretel things to come, are faid to be made : as William of Paris
relates of a brazen-head, made under the rifing of Saturn, which, they fay,
fpake with a man’s voice. But he that will chufe a difpofed matter, and moll
fit to receive, and a moll powerful agent, fhall undoubtedly produce more
powerful effects. For it is a general opinion of the Pythagoreans, that, as
mathematical are more formal than natural, fo alfo they are more efficacious';
as they have lefs dependance in their being, fo alfo in their operation. But
amongfl all mathematical things, numbers, as they have more of form in
them, fo alfo are more efficacious, as well to effect what is good- as what is
bad. All things, which were firfl made by the nature of things in its firfl age,
feem to be formed by the proportion of numbers ;
for this was the principal
pattern in the mind of the Creator. Hence is borrowed the number of the
elements—hence the courfes of times—hence the motion of the liars, and the
revolution of the heavens, and the Hate of all things fubfifl by the uniting
together of numbers. Numbers, therefore, are endowed with great and fuh-
lime virtues. For it is no wonder, feeing there are fo many occult virtues in
natural things, although of manifefl operations, that there fhould be in num-
bers
Chap. XIV. TALISMANIC MAGIC. { J1
bers much greater and more occult, and alfo more wonderful and efficacious
for as much as they are more formal, more perfect, and naturally in the celef-
tials, not mixed with feparated fubftances •, and, laftly, having- the greateft and
moft timple commixion with the ideas in the mind of God, from which they
receive their proper and moft efficacious virtues ,
wherefore they alfo are of
moft force, and conduce moft to the obtaining- of fpiritual and divine gifts
as, in natural things, elementary qualities are powerful in the tranfmuting of
any elementary thing. Again, all things that are, and are made, fubfift by
and receive their virtue from numbers : —for time confifts of numbers—and all
motion and aCtion, and all things which are fubjeCt to time and motion.
Harmony, alfo, and voices have their power by and confift of numbers and
their proportions ;
and the proportion arifing from numbers do, by lines and
points, make characters and figures •, and thefe are proper to magical opera^-
tions—the middle, which is betwixt both, being appropriated by declining to
the extremes, as in the ufe of letters. And laftly, all fpecies of natural things,
and of thofe which are above Nature, are joined together by certain numbers 5
which Pythagoras feeing, fays, that number is that by which all things fub-
fift, and diftributes each virtue to each number. And Proclus fays, number
hath always a being : yet there is one in voice—another in proportion of
them—another in the foul and reafon—and another in divine things. But
Themiftius, Boetius, and Averrois (the Babylonian), together with Plato, do
fo extol numbers, that they think no man can be a true philofopher without
therm By them there is a way made for the fearching out and underftanding of
all things knowable ; —by them the next accefs to natural prophecying is had—
and the Abbot Joachim proceeded no other way in his prophecies, but by
formal, numbers.
CHAP,
.102 talismanic magic. Part II.
CHAP. XV.
the GREAT VIRTUES OF NUMBERS, AS WELL I.N NATURAL THINGS AS IN SUPERNATURAL.
THAT there lies wonderful efficacy and virtue in numbers, as well to good
as to badr the molt eminent philofophers unanimoufly teach ; efpecially
Hierom, Auftin, Origen, Ambrofe, Gregory of Nazianzen, Athanafius, BaSilius,
HilariuS, Rubanas, Bede, and many more conform. Hence Hilarius, in his
commentaries upon the Pfalms, tellifies that the feventy elders, according to
the efficacy of numbers, brought the Pfalms into order. The natural number is
not here considered ;
but theformal consideration that is in the number ; —and
let that which we fpoke before always be kept in mind, viz,, that thefe powers
are not in vocal numbers of merchants buying and felling 9 but in rational,
formal, and natural 9 —thefe are the diflin£t myfteries of God and Nature.
But he who knows how to join together the vocal numbers and natural with
divine, and order them into the fame harmony, ffiall be able to work and know
wonderful things by numbers 9
in which, unlefs there was a great myftery,
John had not faid, in the Revelation—“ He that hath underftanding, let him
compute the number of the name of the beaft, which is the number of a
man —and this is the moft famous manner of computing among!! the
Hebrews and Cabalifts, as we ffiall ffiew afterwards. But this you muft know,
that Simple numbers fignify divine things, numbers of ten 9 celeftial numbers
of an hundred 9
terreftrial numbers of a thoufand—thofe things that ffiall be
in a future age. Befides, feeing the parts of the mind are according to an
arithmetical mediocrity, by reafon of the identity, or equality of excefs, cou-
pled together 9
but the body, whofe parts differ in their greatnefs, is, accord-
ing to a geometrical mediocrity, compounded 9
but an animal confifts of both,
viz. foul and body, according to that mediocrity which is Suitable to harmony.
Hence it is that numbers work very much upon the foul,
figures upon the
body, and harmony upon the whole animal.
CHAP-
Chap. XVI. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 103
CHAP. XVI.
OF THE SCALE OF UNITY.
NOW let us treat particularly of numbers themfelves ;
and, becaufe num-
ber is nothing elfe but a repetition of unity, let us firft confider unity itfelf ;
for unity doth molt firnply go through every number, and is the common
meafure, fountain, and original of all numbers ;
contains every number joined
together in itfelf entirely ;
the beginner of every multitude, always the fame,
and unchangeable ; whence, alfo, being multiplied into itfelf, produceth no-
thing but itfelf : it is indivifible, void of all parts. Nothing is before one,
nothing is after one, and beyond it is nothing ;
and all things which are,
defire that one, becaufe all things proceed from one ;
and that all things
may be the fame, it is neceifary that they partake of that one : and as all
things proceed of one into many things, fo all things endeavour to return to
that one, from which they proceeded ;
it is necelfary that they fhould put' off
multitude. One, therefore, is referred to the moft high God, who, feeing he is one
and innumerable, yet creates innumerable things of himfelf, and contains them
within himfelf. There is, therefore, one God—one world of the one God
one fun of the one world—alfo one phoenix in the world—one king amongft
bees—one leader amongft flocks of cattle—one ruler amongft herds of beafts—
and cranes follow one, and many other animals honour unity. Amongft the
members of the body there is one principal, by which all the reft are guided ;
whether it be the head, or (as fome will) the heart. There is one element,
overcoming and penetrating all things, viz. fire. There is one thing created of
God, the fubje6t of all xuondering which is in earth or in heaven—it is actually
animal, vegetable, and mineral ;
every where found, known by few, called by
none by its proper name, but covered with figures and riddles, without which
neither Alchymy, nor Natural Magic can attain to their complete end or per-
fection. From one man, Adam, all men proceeded—from that one, all became
mortal—from that one, Jefus Chrijl, they are regenerated ;
and, as faith
St. Paul, one Lord, one faith, one baptifm, one God and Father of all, one
Mediator
TALISMANIC MAGIC.
104- Part II.
Mediator betwixt God and man, one moft high Creator, who is over all, by
all, and in us all. For there is one Father, God, from whence all, and we in
him ;
one Lord Jefus Chrift, by whom all, and we by him *, one God Holy
Ghoft, into whom all, and we into him.
THE SCALE OF UNITY.
In the
Exemplary World,
Jod.
>
One Divine EfTence, the fountain of all virtues and power,
whofe name is exprerted with one moft fimple letter.
In the
Intelle&ual World,
The
Soul of the World.
One Supreme Intelligence, the firft creature, the fountain
of life.
In the
Celeftial World,
The Sun. One King of Stars, fountain of life.
In the
Elemental World,
The
Philofophers’ Stone.
One fubjeft, and inftrument of all virtues, natural and
fupernatural.
In the
Lefler World,
The Heart. One firft living and laft dying.
In the
Infernal World,
Lucifer. One Prince of Rebellion, of Angels, and Darknefs.
CHAP XVII.
OF THE NUMBER TWO, AND SCALE.
THE firft number is two, becaufe it is the firft multitude ;
it can be mea-
fured by no number befides unity alone, the common meafure of all numbers
it is not compounded of numbers, but of one unity only ; neither is it called a
number uncompounded, but more properly not compounded. The number
three, is called the firft number uncompounded. But the number two is the firft
branch of unity, and the firft procreation ;
and it is called the number of
fcience, and memory, and of light, and the number of man, who is called
another
105
Chap. XVII. TALISMANIC MAGIC,
another, and the leffer world : it is alfo called the number of charity, and of
mutual love ;
of marriage, and fociety : as it is faid by the Lord—“ Two fhall
be one flelh.”—And Solomon faith, “ It is better that two be together than one,
for they have a benefit by their mutual fociety : if one fhall fall, he fhall be
fupported by the other. Woe to him that is alone ;
becaufe, when he falls, he
hath not another to help him. And if two fleep together, they fhall warm one
another: how fhall one be hot alone ? —And if any prevail againft him, two
refill him.” And it is called the number of wedlock, and fex ;
for there are
two fexes—mafculine and feminine. And two doves bring forth two eggs ;
out of the firfi of which is hatched the male, out of the fecond the female. It
is alfo called the middle, that is capable, that is good and bad, partaking ;
and the beginning of divifion, of multitude, and diftinfition •, and fignifies mat-
ter. This is alfo, fometimes, the number of difcord, of confufion, of mis-
fortune, and uncleannefs ;
whence St. Hierom, againft Jovianus, faith—“ that
therefore it was not fpoken in the fecond day of the creation of the world.”
“ And God faid, that it was good ;”—becaufe the number of two is evil.
Hence alfo it was, that God commanded that all unclean animals flrould go
into the ark by couples ;
becaufe, as I faid, the number of two is a number of
uncleannefs. Pythagorus, as Eufebius reports, faid, that unity was God, and
a good intellect ;
but that duality was a devil, and an evil intellect, in which
is a material multitude-: wherefore the Pythagorians fay, that two is not a
number, but a certain confufion of unities. And Plutarch writes, that the
Pythagorians called unity, Apollo ;
and two, ftrife and boldnefs ;
and three,
juftice, which is the higheft perfection, and is not without many myfteries.
Plence there were two tables of the law in Sinai—two cherubims looking to
the propitiatory in Mofes— -two olives dropping oil, in Zachariah—two natures
in Chrift, divine and human : hence Mofes faw two appearances of God, viz.
his face, and back parts ; —alfo two Teftamcnts—two commands of love—two
firft dignities—two firft people—two kinds of fpirits, good and bad—two in-
tellectual creatures, an angel and foul—two great lights—two folftifia—two
equinoftials—two poles—two elements, producing a living foul, viz. earth
and water.
Book I, Q <
THE
106 talismanic magic. Part II.
« —
THE SCALE OF THE NUMBER TWO.
In the
Exemplary World,
iT Jah
bn El
The Names of God, expreiTed with two
Letters.
In the
Intelledlual World,
An Angel, The Soul; Two Intelligible Subftances.
In the
Celeftial World,
The Sun, The Moon Two great Lights.
In the
Elementary World,
The Earth, The Water; Two Elements producing a living Soul.
In the
Lefler World,
The Heart, The Brain; Two principal Seats of the Soul.
In the
Infernal World,
Beemoth,
weeping.
Leviathan,
gnafhing of Teeth;
Two Chiefs of the Devils.
Two things Chrift threatens to the damned.
CHAP. XVIII.
or THE NUMBER THREE, AND SCALE.
THE number Three, is an uncompounded number, a holy number, a
number of perfection, a molt powerful number : —for there are three perfons
in Gc>d ;
there are three theological virtues in religion. Hence it is that this
number ccnduceth to the ceremonies of God and religion, that by the fo-
lemnity of which, prayers and facrifices are thrice repeated ;
for corporeal
and fpiritual things confift of three things, viz. beginning, middle, and end.
By three, as Trifmegiftus faith, the world is perfected—harmony, neceility,
and order, i. e. concurrence of caufes (which many call fate), and the execu-
tion of them to the fruit, or increafe, or a due diflribution of the increafe.
The whole meafure of time is concluded in three, viz. pad, prefent, and to
come j—all magnitude is contained in three—line, fuperfices, and body —
every
c XVIII. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 107
A
every body confifts of three intervals,—length, breadth, and thicknefs. Har-
i . e y
contains three confents in time—diapafon, hemiolion, , diatefleron.
Thww re alfo three kinds of fouls—vegetative, fenlitive, and intellectual,
A r i as fuch, faith the Prophet, God orders the world by number, weight, and
immure; and the number three is deputed to the ideal forms thereof, as the
number two is the procreating matter, and unity to God the maker of it—Ma-
gicians do conftitute three Princes of the world—Oromafis, Mithris, Araminis
i. e. God, the mind, and the fpirit. By the three-fquare or folid, the three
numbers of nine, of things produced, are diftributed, viz. of the fuperceleftial
into nine orders of intelligences ;
of celeftial, into nine orbs ;
of inferiors, into
nine kinds of generable and corruptible things. Laftly, into this eternal orb,
viz. twenty-feven, all mufical proportions are included, as Plato and Proclus
do at large difcourfe ;
and the number three hath, in a harmony of five, the
grace of the firft voice. Alfo, in intelligences, there are three hierarchies of
angelical fpirits. There are three powers of intellectual creatures—memory,
mind, and will. There are three orders of the Hefted, viz. martyrs, confeffors,
and innocents. There are three quaternions of celeftial figns, viz. of fixed,
moveable, and common •, as alfo of houfes, viz. centres, fucceeding, and fall-
ing. There are, alfo, three faces and heads in every fign, and three
Lords of each triplicity. There are three fortunes amongft the planets. In
the infernal crew, three judges, three furies, three-headed Cerberus : we read,
alfo, of a thrice-double Hecate. Three months of the Virgin Diana. Three
perfons in the fuper-fubftantial Divinity. Three times—of nature, law, and
grace. Three theological virtues—faith, hope, and charity. Jonah was three
days in the whale’s belly ;
and fo many was Chrift in the grave.
O 2 THE
r
108 TALISMANIC MAGIC. Part II.
THE SCALE OF THE NUMBER THREE.
In the
Original
World,
The Father,
Adai,
The Son,
The Holy Gholt;
The Name of God with
three Letters.
In the
Intellectual
World,
Supreme
Innocents,
Middle
Martyrs,
Lowell
of all ConfelTors
Three hierarchies of Angels.
Three degrees of the Blelfed.
In the
Celellial
World,
Moveable,
Corners,
Of the Day,
Fixed,
Succeeding,
Nodturnal,
Common;
Falling
Partaking;
Three quaternions of Signs.
Three quaternions of houfes.
Three Lords of triplicities.
In the
Elementary
World,
Simple, Compounded, Thrice compounded Three degree of elements.
In the
Lefler
World,
Thehead,in which
the intellect grows,
anfwering to the
intellectual world,
The breaft, where is
the heart, the feat of
life, anfwering to the
celeftial world,
The belly, where the
faculty of generation is,
and the genital members,
anfwering the elemental
world;
Three parts, anfwering to
the threefold world.
In the
Infernal
World,
Ale&o,
Minos,
Wicked,
Megera,
Acacus,
Apoftates,
Ctefiphone
Rhadamantus;
Infidels;
Three infernal Furies.
Three infernal Judges.
Three degrees of the damned.
CHAP. XIX.
OF THE NUMBER FOUR, AND SCALE.
THE Pythagorians call the number Four, Te£tra6Iis, and prefer it before all
the virtues of numbers, becaufe it is the foundation and root of all other numbers
whence, alfo, all foundations, as well in artificial things, as natural and divine,
are four fquare, as we fhall fhew afterwards ;
and it fignifies folidity, which
alfo is demonftrated by a four-fquare figure *, for the number four, is the firft
four-
Chap. XIX. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 109
four-fquare plane, which conlifts of two proportions, whereof the firft is of one
to two, the latter of two to four ;
and it proceeds by a double proceftion and
proportion, viz. of one to one, and of two to two
—'beginning' at a unity, and
ending at a quaternity : which proportions differ in this, that, according to
Arithmetic, they are unequal to one another ;
but, according to Geometry, are
equal. Therefore a four-fquare is afcribed to God the Father ;
and alfo con-
tains the myftery of the whole Trinity : for by its Angle proportion, viz,, by
the firft of one to one, the unity of the paternal fubftance is fignified, from
which proceeds one Son, equal to Him 5 —by the next proceftion, alfo ftmple,
viz,, of two to two, is fignified (by the fecond proceftion) the Holy Ghoft
from both—that the Son be equal to the Father, by the firft proceftion ;
and
the Holy Ghoft be equal to both, by the fecond proceftion. Hence that fuper-
excellent and great name of the Divine Trinity in God is written with four
letters, viz. Jod,
He, and Van. He, where it is the afpiration He, fignifies
the proceeding of the Spirit from both ;
for He, being duplicated, terminates
both fyllables, and the whole name, but is pronounced Jova, as fome will,
whence that Jove of the heathen, which the antients did picture with four
ears \
whence the number four, is the fountain and head of the whole
Divinity. And the Pythagorians call it the perpetual fountain of Nature :
for there are four degrees in the fcale of Nature, viz. to be, to live, to befen-
Jible, to underjland. There are four motions in Nature, viz. afcendant, de-
fendant, going forward, circular. There are four corners in Heaven, viz.
rifing, falling, the middle of the Heaven, the bottom of it. There are four
elements under Heaven, viz. fire, air, water, and earth ;
according to thefe
there are four triplicities in Heaven. There are four firft qualities under Hea-
ven, viz. cold, heat, drynefs, and moifture ;
from thefe are the four hu-
mours—blood, phlegm, choler, melancholy. Alfo, the year is divided into
four parts, which are the fpring, furnmer, autumn, and winter : —alfo the
wind is divided into eaftern, weftern, northern, and fouthern. There are, alfo,
four rivers in Paradife ;
and fo many infernal. Alfo, the number four makes
up
TALISMANIC MAGIC.
110 Part II.
up all knowledge : firfi, it fills up every firnple progrefs of numbers with four
terms, viz. with one, two, three, and four, confiituting the number ten. It
fills up every difference of numbers : the firfi even, and containing the firfl odd
in it. It hath in mufic, diatelferon—the grace of the fourth voice ; alfo it
contains the inftrumen'; of four firings ; and a Pythagorian diagram, whereby
are found out firfi of all mufical tunes, and all harmony of mufic : for double,
treble, four times double, one and a half, one and a third part, a concord of
all, a double concord of all, of five, of four, and all confonancy is limited
within the bounds of the number four. It doth alfo contain the whole of
Mathematics in four terms, viz. point, line, fuperfices, and profundity. It
comprehends all Nature in four terms, viz. fubfiance, quality, quantity, and
motion ;
alfo all natural philofophy, in which are the feminary virtues of
Nature, the natural fpringing, the growing form, and the compofitum. Alfo
metaphyfics is comprehended in four bounds, viz. being, effence, virtue, and
adion. Moral philofophy is comprehended with four virtues, viz. prudence,
jupice,
fortitude,
and te7iiperance. It hath alfo the power of jufiice : hence a
four-fold law—ofprovidence, from God ;
fatal,
from the foul of the world ;
of
Nature,
from Heaven ;
oiprudence, from man. There are alfo four judiciary
powers in all things being, viz. the intelletfi, difeipline, opinion, and fenfe.
Alfo, there are four rivers of Paradife. Four Gofpels, received from four
Evangelifts, throughout the whole Church. The Hebrews received the chiefeft
name of God written with four letters. Alfo, the Egyptians, Arabians, Per-
fians, Magicians, Mahometans, Grecians, Tufcans, and Latins, write the
name of God with four letters, viz. thus—Thet, Alla, Sire, Orfi, Abdi, deog,
Efar, Deus. Hence the Lacedemonians were wont to paint Jupiter with four
wings. Hence, alfo, in Orpheus’s Divinity, it is faid that Neptune’s cha-
riots are drawn with four horfes. There are alfo four kinds of divine furies,
proceeding from feveral deities, viz. from the Mufes, Dionyfius, Apollo, and
Venus. Alfo, the Prophet Ezekiel faw four beafts by the river Chobar, and
four chernbims in four wheels. Alfo, in Daniel, four great beafis did afeend
from
l
Chap. XI^. TALISMANIC MAGIC. Ill
from the fea *, and four winds did fight. And in the Revelations, four beafts
were full of eyes, before and behind, {landing round about the throne of God 5
and four angels, to whom was given power to hurt the earth and the fea, did
Hand upon the four corners of the earth, holding the four winds, that they
ftiould not blow upon the earth, nor upon the fea, nor upon any tree.
THE
112 TAI.ISMANIC MAGIC. Part II.
THE SCALE OF
The Name of
God with four
Setters,
n 1 n >
In the original
world, whence the
law of Providence.
Four triplicit ies,
or intelligible hier-
archies,
Seraphim,
Cherubim,
Thrones,
Dominations,
Powers,
Virtues,
Principalities,
Archangels,
Angels,
Innocents,
Martyn,
Confeffors.
In the intelledlual
world, whence the
fatal law.
Four angels ruling
over the four cor-
ners of the world,
Michael, Raphael, Gabriel, Uriel.
Four rulers of the
elements,
DTd'
Seraph,
AH3
Cherub,
D’ii’in
Tharfis, Ariel.
Four confecrated
animals,
The Lion, The Eagle, Man, A Calf.
Four triplicities of
the tribes of Ifrael,
Dan,
Affer,
Naphthalin,
Jehuda,
Ifachar,
Zebulun,
Manafl'e,
Benjamin,
Ephraim,
Reuben,
Simeon,
Gad.
Four triplicities of
the Apoftles,
#
Matthias,
Peter,
Jacob the elder,
Simon,
Bartholomew,
Matthew,
John,
Philip,
James the younger
Thaddeus,
Andrew,
Thomas.
Four Evangelifls, Mark, John, Matthew, Luke.
Four triplicities of
figns,
Aries,
Leo,
Sagittarius,
Gemini,
Libra,
Aquarius,
Cancer,
Scorpion,
Pifces,
Taurus,
Virgo,
Capricornus.
In the celeftia!
world, where is tire,
law of Nature.
The flars and p'a-
nets related to the
elements,
Mars, and
the Sun,
Jupiter, and
Venus,
Saturn, and
Mercury,
The fixed Stars,
and the Moon.
Four qualities of
the celeitial ele-
ments,
Light, Diaphanoufnefs, Agility, Solidity.
Four elements,
Fire,
m
Air, Water, Earth.
In the elementary,
where the law of
generation andcor-
ruption is.
Four qualities, Heat, Moillure, Cold, Drynefs.
Four feafons, Summer, Spring, Winter, Autumn,
Four corners of
the world,
Eaft, Weft, North, South.
Four perfect kinds
of mixed bodies,
Animals, Plants, Metals. Stones.
Four kinds of ani-
mals,
Walking, Flying, Swimming, Creeping.
Chap. XIX TALISMANIC MAGIC, 113
THE NUMBER FOUR.
What anfwers the
elements in plants,
Seeds, Flowers, Leaves, Roots.
What in metals, Gold and iron, Copper and tin, Quickfilver, Lead and filver.
What in ftones,
Bright and barn
«ng>
Light and trans-
parent,
Clear and con-
gealed,
Heavy and dark.
Four elements of
man.
The Mind, Spirit, Soul, Body.
In the leffer
world, viz. man,
from whom is
the law of pru-
dence.
Four powers of
the foul,
The Intellect, Reafon, Phantafy, Senfe.
Four judiciary
powers,
Faith, Science, Opinion, Experience.
Four moralvirtues, Juflice, Temperance, Prudence, Fortitude.
The fenfes an-
fwering to the ele-
ments,
Sight, Hearing, Tafte and fmell, Touch.
Four elements of
man’s body,
Spirit, Flefh, Humours, Bones.
A fourfold fpirit, Animal, Vital, Generative, Natural.
Four humours, Choler, Blood, Phlegm, Melancholy.
Four manners of
complexion,
Violence, Nimblenefs, Dulnefs, Slownefs.
Four princes of
devils, ofFenfive in
the elements,
Samael, Azazel,
buty
Azael,
VNtnD
Mahazael.
In the infernal
world, where is
the law of wrath
andpunifhment.
Four infernal
rivers,
Phlegethon, Cocytus, Styx, Acheron.
Four princes of
fpirits, upon the
pur angles of the
(world,
Oriens, Paymon, Egyn, Amaymon.
Book I P CHAP
114 TALISMANIC MAGIC Part II.
CHAP. XX.
OF THE NUMBER FIVE, AND ITS SCALE.
THE number Five is of no fmall force ;
for it confifts of the firft even, and
the firft odd ;
as of a female and male : for an odd number is the male, and
the even the female ;
whence arithmeticians call that the father, and this
the mother. Therefore the number five is of no fmall perfection or virtue,
which proceeds from the mixtion of thefe numbers ; it is, alfo, the juft middle of
the univerfal number, viz. ten : for if you divide the number ten, there will be
nine and one, or eight and two, and feven and three, or fix and four, and every
collection makes the number ten, and the exaCt middle is always the number
five, and its equa-diftant ;
and therefore it is called, by the Pythagorians, the
number of wedlock, as alfo of juftice, becaufe it divides the number ten in an
even fcale. There are five fenfes in man—fight, hearing, fmelling, tailing,
and feeling ;
five powers in the foul—vegetative, fenfitive, concupifcible,
irafcible, and rational ;
five fingers on the hand •, five wandering planets in the
heavens, according to which there are fivefold terms in every fign. In elements
there are five kinds of mixed bodies, viz. ftones, metals, plants, plant-animals,
animals ;
and fo many kinds of animals—as men, four-footed beafts, creep-
ing, fwimming, and flying. And there are five kinds by which all things are
made of God, viz. effence, the fame, another, fenfe, and motion. The fwallow
brings forth but five young, which the feeds with equity, beginning with the
eldeft, and fo the reft according to their age. For in this number the father
Noah found favour with God, and was preferved in the flood of waters. In
the virtue of this number, Abraham, being an hundred years old, begat a fon
of Sarah (Sarah being ninety years old, and a barren woman, and paft child-
bearing), and grew up to be a great people. Hence, in time of grace, the
name of Divine Omnipotency is called upon in five letters 5
in time of
nature, the name of God was called upon with three letters n® Sadai ;
in time
of the law, the ineffable name of God was exprefled with four letters mrp, in-
stead of which the Hebrews exprefs >nN Adonai ; in time of grace, the ineffable
name
Chap. XXL TALISMANJC MAGIC. 115
name of God was written with five letters nwn* Jhefu, which is called upon
with no lefs myftery than that of three letters -ja».
THE SCALE OF THE NUMBER FIVE.
The Names of
God with five
letters. The
Name of Chrifl:
with five letters,
ivfo
nt^rv
Eloim,
Elohi,
Jhefu,
In the exem-
plary world.
Five intelligible
fubflances.
Spirits of the
firft hierarchy,
called Gods, or
the Tons of God,
Spirits of the fe-
cond hierarchy,
called Intelli-
gences,
Spirits of the
third hierarchy,
called Angels
which are fent,
Souls of celef-
tial bodies,
Heroes and
blefled fouls.
In the intel.
le&ual world.
Five wandering
liars, lords of
the terms,
Saturn, Jupiter,
1
Mars, Venus, Mercury.
In the celeftial
world.
Five kinds' of
corruptible
things,
Water, Air, Fire, Earth,
A mixed
body.
In the elemen-
tary world.
Five kinds of
mixed bodies,
Animal, Plant, Metal, Stone,
Plant-
animal.
Five fenfes, Tafte, Hearing, Seeing, Touching, Smelling.
In the lefler
world.
Five corporeal
torments,
Deadly bitter-
nefs,
Horrible howl-
ing,
Terrible dark-
nefs,
Unquenchable
heat,
A piercing
(link.
In the infernal
world
CHAP. XXL
OF THE NUMBER SIX, AND THE SCALE.
SIX is a number of perfe&ion, becaufe it is the moft perfect in nature, in
the whole courfe of numbers, from one to ten ; and it alone is fo perfect that
ia the collection of its parts, it refults the fame, neither wanting nor abound-
P 2 ins'
TALISMANIC MAGIC.
116 Part II.
ing ; for if the parts thereof, viz. the middle, third, and fixth part, which
are three, two, one, be gathered together, they perfectly till up the whole
body of fix, which perfection all the other numbers want. Hence, by the
Pythagorians, it is faid to be altogether to be applied to generation and mar-
riage, and is called the fcale of the world ;
for the world is made of the num-
ber fix—neither doth it abound, nor is defective : hence that is, becaufe the
world was finifhed by God the fixth day •, for the fixth day God faw all things
which he had made, and they were * very good therefore the heaven, and the
earth, and all the hoft thereof, were finifhed. It is alfo called the number of
man, becaufe the fixth day + man was created. And it is alfo the number of
our redemption •, for on the fixth day Chrift fuffered for our redemption :
whence there is a great affinity between the number fix and the crofs, labour,
and fervitude. Hence it is commanded in the law, that in fix days the manna
is to be gathered, and work to be done. Six years the ground was to be
fown ; and that the Hebrew fervant was to ferve his matter fix years. Six days
the glory of the Lord appeared upon Mount Sinai, covering it with a cloud.
The Cherubims had fix wings. Six circles in the firmament : Artie, Antartic,
two Tropics, Equinoctial, and Ecliptical. Six wandering planets : Saturn,
Jupiter, Mars, Venus, Mercury, the Moon, running through the latitude of
the Zodiac on both fides the Ecliptic. There are fix lubftantial qualities in the
elements, viz. ffiarpnefs, thinnefs, motion ;
and the contrary to thefe —dulnefs,
thicknefs, and reft. There are fix differences of pofition : upwards, downwards,
before, behind, on the right fide, and on the left fide. There are fix natural
offices, without which nothing can be, viz. magnitude, colour, figure, interval,
Handing, motion. Alfo, a folid figure of any four-fquare thing hath fix
fuperfices. There are fix tones of all harmony, viz. five tones, and two half
tones which make one tone, which is the fixth.
* The fixth day, the Eternal Wifdom pronounced all things created by his divine hand to be “ very good.”
f Hence arofe the myfiery of the number of the beaft, fix hundred three fcore and fix, being the numbei
qf a man DCLXVI,
SCALE
Chap. XXII. TALISMANIC MAGIC.
THE SCALE OF THE NUMBER SIX.
In the
Exemplary
World,
D’n^irpm bN
Names of fix
letters.
In the
Intelligible
World,
Seraphim, Cherubim, Thrones,
Domina-
tions,
Powers, Virtues
Six orders of
Angels, which
are not fenttb
inferiors.
In the
Celeftial
World.
Saturn, J upiter, Mars, Venus, Mercury, The Moon ;
Six planets wan-
dering through
the latitude of
the Zodiac from
the Ecliptic.
In the
Elemental
World,
Reft, Thinnefs, Sharpnefs, Dulnefs, Thicknefs, Motion ;
Six fubftantial
qualities of the
elements.
In the
Leffer
World,
The
Intelledl,
Memory, Senfe, Motion, Life, EHence
Six degrees of
the mind.
In the
Infernal
World,
Adieus, Megalelius, Ormenus, Lycus, Nicon, Mimon ;
Six Devils, the
authors of all
calamities.
CHAP XXIL
OP THE NUMBER SEVEN, AND THE SCALE.
THE number Seven is of various and manifold power ; for it confifts of one
and fix, or of two and five, or of three and four ;
and it hath a unity, as it
were the coupling* together of two threes : whence if we confider the feveral
parts thereof, and the joining together of them, without doubt we fhall confefs
that it is, as well by the joining together of the parts thereof as by its fulnefs
apart, moll full of all majefty. And the Pythagorians call it the vehiculum
of man’s life, which it doth not receive from its parts fo, as it perfects by its
proper
118 TALISMAN1C MAGIC, Part XI,
proper right of its whole—for it contains body and foul ; for the body confills
of four elements, and is endowed with four qualities : alfo, the number three
refpects the foul, by reafon of its threefold power, viz. rational, irafcible, and
concupifcible. The number feven, therefore, becaufe it confifts of three and
four, joins the foul to the body ;
and the virtue of this number relates to the
generation of men, and it caufes man to be received, formed, brought forth,
nourifhed, live, and indeed altogether to fubfift : for when the genital feed is
received in the womb of the woman, if it remains there feven hours after the.
effufion of it, it is certain that it will abide there for good ;
then the firft feven
days it is coagulated, and is fit to receive the lhape of a man ;
then it pro-
duces mature infants, which are called infants of the feventh month, i. e. be-
caufe they are born the feventh month ;
after the birth, the feventh hour tries
whether it will live or no—for that which will bear the breath of the air after
that hour, is conceived will live ;
after feven days, it calls off the relics of the
navel ; after twice feven days, its fight begins to move after the light ; in the
third feventh, it turns its eyes and whole face freely 5
after feven months, k
breeds teeth ;
after the fecond feventh month, it fits without fear of falling ;
after the third feventh month, it begins to fpeak ; after the fourth feventh
month, it Hands ftrongly and walks ; after the fifth feventh month, it begins
to refrain fucking its nurfe ; after feven years, its firlt teeth fall, and new are
bred, fitter for harder meat, and its fpeech is perfected ;
after the fecond fe-
venth year, boys wax ripe, and then it is a beginning of generation ;
at the
third feventh year, they grow to men in ftature, and begin to be hairy, and
become able and ftrong for generation ;
at the fourth feventh year, they ceafe
to grow taller in the fifth feventh year, they attain to the perfection of their
Hrength ;
the fixth feventh year, they keep their lirength •, the feventh feventh
year, they attain to their utmoft difcretion and wifdom, and the perfebf age of
men but when they come to the tenth feventh year, where the number feven
is taken for a complete number, then they come to the common term of life—
the Prophet faying, bur age is feventy years. The utmoft height of a man’s
body is feven feet. There are, alfo, feven degrees in the body, which com-
plete the dimenfion of its altitude from the bottom to the top, viz. marrow,
bone, nerve, vein, artery, flelh, and fkin. There are feven, which, by the
Greeks,
Chap. XXII. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 119
Greeks, are called black members : the tongue, heart, lungs, liver, fpleen,
and the two kidnies. There are, alfo, feven principal parts of the body : the
head, bread, hands, feet, and the privy members. It is manifeft, concerning
breath and meat, that, without drawing of the breath, the life doth not remain
above feven hours ;
and they that are ftarved with famine, live not above feven
days.* The veins, alfo, and arteries, as phyficians fay, are moved by the ie-
venth number. Alfo, judgments in difeafes are made with greater manifefta-
tion upon the feventh day, which phyficians call critical, i. e. judicial. Alfo,
of feven portions God creates the foul ; —the foul, alfo, receives the body by
feven degrees. All difference of voices proceeds to the feventh degree, after
which there is the fame revolution. Again, there are feven modulations of the
voices : ditonus, femiditonus, diatefferon, diapente with a tone, diapente with
a half tone, and diapafon. There are alfo, in celeftials, a moft potent power
of the number feven ;
for feeing there are four corners of the Heaven diame-
trically looking one towards the other, which indeed is accounted a moft full
and powerful afpeft, and confifts of the number feven ;
for it is made with
the feventh fign, and makes a crofs, the moft powerful figure of all, of which
we fhall fpeak in its due place ; —but this you mult not be ignorant of, that
the number feven hath a great communion with the crofs. By the fame ra-
diation and nujnber the folftice is diftant from winter, and the winter equi-
no6tium from the furnmer, all which are done by feven figns. There are alfo
feven circles in the Heavens, according to the longitudes of the axle-tree.
There are feven ftars about the Artie Pole, greater and leffer, called Charles
Wain ;
alfo feven ftars called the Pleiades ;
and feven planets, according to
thofe feven days conflituting a v/eek. The Moon is the feventh of the planets,
and next to us, obferving this number more than the reft, this number difpenfing
the motion and light thereof ;
for in twenty-eight days it runs round the com-
pafs of the whole Zodiac ;
which number of days, the number feven with its
feven terms, viz. from one to feven, doth make and fill up as much as the
* There have been Tome exceptions to this affirmation, one of which fell under my notice of late years
Do&or Edward Spry, of Plymouth Dock, Philofopher, Cabalift, and Phyfitian, lived upwards of two years
upon a. goofeberry a day in furnmer, and an oat cake and three .glaiTes of white wine the reft of the feafon,
per day : this gentleman was particularly abftemious in his diet.
feveral
120 TALISMANIC MAGIC. Part II.
feveral numbers, by adding to the antecedents, and makes four times feven
days, in which the Moon runs through and about all the longitude and lati-
tude of the Zodiac, by meafuring and meafuring again : with the like feven
days it difpenfes its light, by changing it ;
for the firft feven days, unto the
middle as it were of the divided world, it increafes ;
the fecond feven days it
fills its whole orb with light ;
the third, by decreafing, is again contracted into
a divided orb ;
but, after the fourth feven days, it is renewed with the latl
diminution of its light ; and by the fame feven days, it difpofes the in-
creafe and decreafe of the fea : for in the firft feven of the increafe of the
moon, it is by little and little leffened ;
in the fecond, by degrees increafed ;
but the third is like the firfi, and the fourth does the fame as the fecond. It is
alfo applied to Saturn, which afcending from the lower, is the feventh planet,
which betokens reft ;
to which the feventh day is afcribed, which fignifies the
feven thoufandth, wherein, as St. John fays, the dragon (which is the devil)
and fatan being bound, men (hall be quiet, and lead a peaceable life. And
the leprous perfon that was to be cleanfed, was fprinkled feven times with the
blood of a fparrow ;
and Elifha the Prophet, as it is written in the fecond book
of Kings, faith unto the leprous perfon—“ Go, and wafh t\yfelf feven times
in Jordan, and thy fielh (hall be made whole, and thou lhalt be cleanfed.”
Alfo, it is a number of repentance and rerniftion. And Chrift, with feven
petitions, finifhed his fpeech of our fatisfaCtion. It is called the number of
liberty, becaufe the feventh year the Hebrew fervant did challenge liberty for
himfelf. It is alfo moft fuitable to divine praifes }
whence the Prophet faith
“ Seven times a day do I praife thee, becaufe of thy righteous judgments.”
It is moreover called the number of revenge, as fays the Scripture—“ And
Cain fhall be revenged fevenfold.”—And the Pfalmift fays—“ Render unto
our neighbours fevenfold into their bofom their reproach.”—Hence there are
feven wickedneffes, as faith Solomon ; and feven wickeder fpirits taken, are
read of in the Gofpel. It fignifies, alfo, the time of the prefent circle, be-
caufe it is finiihed in the fpaee of feven days. Alfo it is confecrated to the
Holy Ghoft, which the Prophet Ifaiah defcribes to be fevenfold, according to
his gift, viz. the fpirit of wifdom and underftanding, the fpirit of counfel and
flrength, the fpirit of knowledge and holinefs, the fpirit of fear of the Lord,
which
Chap, XXII. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 1.21
which we read in Zachariah to be the/even eyes ofGod. There are alfo feven
angels, fpirits Handing in the prefence of God, as is read in Tobias, and in the
Revelation : feven lamps did burn before the throne of God, and feven golden
candlefticks, and in the middle thereof was one like unto the Son of Man, and
he had in his right hand feven liars. Alfo, there were feven fpirits before the
throne of God, and feven angels Hood before the throne, and there were given
to them feven trumpets. And he faw a Lamb, having feven horns and feven
eyes ;
and he faw the book fealed with feven feals ;
and when the feventh feal
was opened, there was made filence in Heaven.
Now, by all that has been faid, it is apparent that the number feven, amongft the
other numbers, may be defervedly faid to be moil full of efficacy. Moreover, the
number feven hath great conformity with the number twelve *, for as three and four
make feven, fo thrice four makes twelve, which are the numbers of the celefiial
planets and figns refulting from the fame root ;
and by the number three partak-
ing of the Divinity, and by the number four of the nature of inferior things.
There is in facred writ a very great obfervance of this number before all others,
and many, and very great are the myfleries thereof : many we have decreed
to reckon up here, repeating them out of holy writ, by which it will eafily
appear that the number feven doth fignify a certain fulnefs of facred myfteries
for we read, in Genelis, that the feventh was the day of relt of the Lord
that Enoch, a pious holy man, was the feventh from Adam ;
and that there
was another feventh man from Adam, a wicked man, by name Lamech, that
had two wives ;
and that the fin of Cain fliould be aboliffied the feventh genera-
tion, as it is written—Cain fhall be puniffied fevenfold ;
and that he who (hall
flay Cain, fhall be revenged fevenfold ;
to which the matter of the hiftory col-
!e6ts that there were feven fins of Cain. Alfo, of all clean beafts feven, and
feven were brought into the ark, as alfo of fowls ;
and after feven days the
Lord rained upon the earth 5
and upon the feventh day the fountains of the
deep were broken up, and the waters covered the earth. Alfo, Abraham gave
to Abimelech feven ewe lambs •, and Jacob ferved feven years for Leah, and
Book I. Q feven
TALISMANIC MAGIC.
122 Part II.
feven more for Rachel ;
and feven days the people of Ifrael bewailed the death
of Jacob. Moreover we read, in the fame place, of feven kine *, and feven
years of corn ;
feven years of plenty, and feven years of fcarcity. And in
Exodus, the Sabbath of Sabbaths, the holy reft to the Lord, is commanded
to be on the feventh day ;
alfo, on the feventh day Mofes ceafed to pray. On
the feventh day there fliall be a folemnity of the Lord ;
the feventh year
the fervant {hall go out free •, feven days let the calf and the lamb be with
its dam ;
the feventh year, let the ground that hath been fown fix years
be at reft ;
the feventh day {hall be a holy Sabbath, and a reft ; the
feventh day, becaufe it is the Sabbath, {hall be called holy. In Leviticus, the
feventh day alfo {hall be more obferved, and be more holy ; and the firft day
of the feventh month {hall be a Sabbath of memorial ; feven days {hall the
facrifices be offered to the Lord ;
feven days {hall the holy days of the Lord
be celebrated ; feven days in a year everlaftingly in the generations. In the
feventh month you fhall celebrate feafts, and {hall dwell in tabernacles feven
days ;
feven times he fhall fprinkle himfelf before the Lord that hath dipped
his finger in blood ;
he that is cleanfed from the leprofy, fhall dip feven times
in the blood of a fparrow ;
feven days fliall {he be wafhed with running water
that is menftruous ;
feven times he fhall dip his finger in the blood of a bul-
lock j feven times I will finite you for your fins. In Deuteronomy, feven
people poffeffed the Land of Promife. There is alfo read, a feventh year of
remiflion ; and feven candles fet up on the fouth fide of the candlefticks.
And in Numbers it is read, that the fons of Ifrael offered up feven ewe lambs
without fpot ; and that feven days they did eat unleavened bread ;
and that fin
was expiated with feven lambs and a goat ;
and that the feventh day was ce-
lebrated, and holy ;
and the firft day of the feventh month was obferved, and
kept holy ;
and the feventh month of the Feaft of Tabernacles j and feven
calves were offered on the feventh day ;
and Baalam erected feven altars ; feven
days Mary, the After of Aaron, went forth leprous out of the camp ;
feven
days he that touched a dead carcafs was unclean. And in Jofhua, feven
priefts carried the ark of the covenant before the hoft ;
and feven days they
went
Chap. XXII. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 1 23
went round the cities ;
and feven trumpets were carried by the feven priefts 5
and on the feventh day, the feven priefts founded the trumpets. And in the
book of Judges, Abeffa reigned in Ifrael feven years ;
Sampfon kept his nup-
tials feven days, and the feventh day he put forth a riddle to his wife ;
he was
bound with feven green withes ;
feven locks of his head were thaved off ;
feven
years were the children of Ifrael oppreffed by the King of Maden. And in
the books of the Kings, Elias prayed feven times, and at the feventh time
beheld a little cloud ;
feven days the children of Ifrael pitched over againff the
Syrians, and in the feventh day of the battle were joined 5
feven years’ famine
was threatened to David, for the people’s murmuring ;
and feven times the
child fneezed that was raifed by Elilha 5
and feven men were crucified toge-
ther, in the days of the firft harveft ;
Naaman was made clean with feven
wafhings, by Elifha 5
the feventh month Goliah was flain. And in Heller we
read, that the King of Perfia had feven eunuchs. And in Tobias, feven men
were coupled with Sarah, the daughter of Raguel. And, in Daniel, Nebuchad-
nezzar’s furnace was heated feven times hotter than it was ufed to be ; and feven
lions were in the den, and the feventh day came Nebuchadnezzar. In the
book of Job, there is mention of feven fons of Job 5
and feven days and nights
Job’s friends fat with him on the earth ;
and, in the fame place— In feven
troubles no evil lhall come near thee.” In Ezra, we read of Artaxerxes’s feven
counfellors ;
and in the fame place, the trumpet founded ;
the feventh month of
the Feali of Tabernacles was, in Ezra’s time, whillt the children of Ifrael were
in the cities ;
and on the firft day of the feventh month, Efdras read the law
to the people. And, in the Pfalms, David praifed the Lord feven times in the
day ;
filver is tried feven times ;
and he renders to his neighbours fevenfold
into their bofoms. And Solomon faith, that Wifdom hath hewn herfelf feven
pillars *, feven men that can render a reafon ^ feven abominations which the
Lord abhors ;
feven abominations in the heart of an enemy ;
feven overfeers ;
feven eyes beholding. Ifaiah numbers up feven gifts of the Holy Ghoft ;
and
feven women lhall take hold on a man. And in Jeremiah, if Ihe that hath
Q 2 borne
124 TALISMANIC MAGIC. Part n:
borne feven, languiflies, (he has given up the gliod. In Ezekiel, the Prophet
continued fad for feven days. In Zachariah, feven lamps, and feven pipes to
thofe feven lamps ;
and feven eyes running to and fro through the whole
earth ;
and feven eyes on one done ;
and the fad of the feventh day is turned
into joy. And in Micah, feven fhepherds are raifed againd the Adyrians.
Alfo, in the Gofpel, we read of feven bledings ;
and feven virtues, to which
feven vices are oppofed ;
feven petitions of the Lord’s Prayer ;
feven words of
Chrid upon the crofs •, feven words of the bleded Virgin Mary ; feven loaves
didributed by the Lord ;
feven batkets of fragments ;
feven brothers having
one wife ;
feven difciples of the Lord who were ddrers ;
feven water pots in
Cana of Galilee ;
feven woes which the Lord threatens to hypocrites ;
feven
devils cad out of the unclean woman, and feven wickeder devils taken in after
that which was cad out ;
alfo, feven years Chrid was fled into Egypt ;
and
the feventh hour the fever left the governor’s fon. And in the canonical
epidles, James deferibes feven degrees of wifdom ; and Peter, feven degrees of
virtues. And in the A6ts, we reckon feven deacons, and feven difciples ehofen
by the Apodles. Alfo, in the Revelation, there are many myderies relating
to this number ;
for there we read of feven candledicks, feven dars, feven
crowns, feven churches, feven fpirits before the throne, feven rivers of Egypt,
feven feals, feven marks, feven horns, feven eyes, feven fpirits of God, feven
angels with feven trumpets, feven horns of the dragon, feven heads of the
dragon which had feven diadems, alfo feven plagues, and feven vials which
were given to every one of the feven angels, feven heads of the fcarlet bead,
feven mountains and feven kings fitting upon them, and feven thunders uttered
their voices.
Moreover, this number hath much power; as in natural fo in facred cere-
monial, and alfo in other things ; therefore the feven days are related hither;
alfo the feven planets, the fe\en dars called Pleiades, the feven ages of
the world, the feven changes of man, the feven liberal arts, and as many
mechanic, and fo many forbidden ;
feven colours, feven metals, feven holes
in
Chap. XXII. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 125
in the head of a man, feven pair of nerves, feven mountains in the city of
Rome, feven Roman kings, feven civil wars, feven wife men in the time of
Jeremiah, feven wife men of Greece ;
alfo Rome did burn feven days by
Nero ;
by feven kings were flain ten thoufand martyrs : there were feven
lleepers ;
and feven principal churches of Rome.
THE
1 2(5 TAUSMAKIO MAGIC, Part II
X
THE SCALE OF
In the
Original
World,
Ararita,
In the
Intelligible
World,
Vnd-t
Zaphiel, Zadkiel, Camael, Raphael,
In the
rvipfHai
>xny& pns ti’Dti’
World,
Saturn, J upiter, Mars, The Sun,
The lapwing, The eagle,
The dolphin,
The vulture, The fwan,
In the The cuttle filh, The pike, The fea calf,
Elementary The mole, The hart, The wolf, The lion,
World, Lead, Tin, Iron, Gold,
The onyx, The faphire, The diamond, The carbuncle,
In the
Lefler
The right foot, The head, The right hand, The heart,
World, The right ear, The left ear, The right noftril, The right eye,
In the
Hell, The gates of death, The Ihadow of death, The pit of deftrudlion,
World, D2iTJ mio'pjn DimiTT nntiHto
Chap. XXII TALISMATfIC MAGIC, 127
THE NUMBER SEVEN,
Affer Eheie, The name of God with feven letters.
^x’3Kn
Haniel, Michael,
Vx'-pi
Gabriel 5
Seyen angels which Hand in the
prefence of God.
run
Venus,
3313
Mercury,
rD3^»
The Moon
Seven planets.
The dove,
Thimallus,
The goat,
Copper,
The emerald,
The flork.
The mullet,
The ape,
Quickfilver,
The achates.
The owl
The fea cat;
Cat;
Silver
Chryftal
Seven birds of the planets.
Seven fifh of the planets.
Seven animals of the planets.
Seven metals of the planets.
Seven Rones of the planets.
The privy members,
The left noftril,
The left hand,
The mouth,
The left foot
The left eye ;
Seven integral members difiributed
to the planets.
Seven holes of the head diftributed
to the planets.
The Clay of death,
tVntO'D
Perdition,
rax
The depth of the earth;
Seven habitations of infernals, which
Rabbi Jofeph of Caflilia, the Ca-
balift, defcribes in the garden of
nuts.
CHAP
128 TALISMANIC MAGIC, Part II.
CHAP. XXIII.
OP THE NUMBER EIGHT, AND THE SCALE.
THE Pythagorians call Eight the number of juftice, and fulnefs : firft, be-
caufe it is firft of all divided into numbers equally even, viz. into four ;
and
that divifion is, by the fame reafon, made into twice two, viz. twice two
twice ’, and by reafon of this equality of divifion it took to itfelf the name of
juftice. But the other received the name of fulnefs, by reafon of the contex-
ture of the corporeal folidity, fince the firft makes a folid body. Hence that
cuftom of Orpheus fwearing by the eight deities, if at any time he would be-
feech Divine juftice, whofe names are thefe : —Fire, Water, Earth, the
Heaven, Moon, Sun, Phanes, and the Night. There are only eight vifible
fpheres of the heavens. Alfo, by it the property of corporeal nature is figni-
fied, which Orpheus comprehends in eight of his fea fongs : this is alfo called
the covenant, or circumcifion, which was commanded to be done by the Jews
the eighth day.
There were alfo, in the old law, eight ornaments of the prieft, viz. a breaft-
plate, a coat, a girdle, a mitre, a robe, an ephod, a girdle of the ephod,
and a golden plate. Hither belongs the number to eternity, and the end of
the world, becaufe it follows the number feven, which is the myftery of time.
Hence, alfo, the number of blefl'ednefs, as you may fee in Matthew. It is
alfo called the number of fafety, and confervation ;
for there were fo many
fouls of the fons of Jefle, from which David was the eighth.
THE
Chap. XXIII TiXISMANIC MAGIC. 129
THE SCALE OF THE NUMBER EIGHT.
The name
of God
with eight
letters,
Eloa Vadaath D^T) Jehova Vedaath nj7!T) miT
In the
original
world.
V
Eight re-
wards of
the blefled,
Inherit-
ance,
Incorrup-
tion,
Power, Victory,
The vifion
of God,
Grace,
A king-
dom,
Joy;
In the in-
telligible
world.
Eight vifi-
ble hea-
vens,
The ftarry
heaven,
The hea-
ven of
Saturn,
The hea-
ven of
Jupiter,
The hea-
ven of
Mars,
The hea-
ven of the
Sun,
The hea-
ven of
Venus,
The hea-
ven of
Mercury,
The hea-
ven of
the Moon;
In the ce-
leltial
world.
Eight par-
ticular
qualities,
The dry
nefs of the
earth,
The cold-
nefs of
water,
The
moifture
of air,
The heat
of fire,
The heat
of air.
The
moifture
of water,
The dry-
nefs of
fire,
The cold-
nefs of
earth;
In the ele-
mentary
world.
Eight
kinds of
blefled
men,
The peace
makers,
They that
hunger
and third
after right-
eoufnefs,
Themeek,
They
which are
perfecuted
for righte-
oufnefs
fake,
Pure in
heart.
Merciful,
%
Poor in
fpirit,
Mourners;
In the
lefler
world.
Eight pu-
nifhments
of the
damned.
Prifon, Death,
Judg-
ment,
The wrath
of God,
Darknefs,
Indigna-
tion,
Tribula-
tion,
Anguifh;
In the
infernal
world.
Book L R CHAP
; : > -
v "
v
130 TALISMANIC MAG1Q. ;
Part 11.
CHAP. XXIV.
01r
TIIE NUMBER NINE, AND THE SCALE.
THERE are nine orders of blefled angels, viz,. Seraphim, Cherubim, Thrones,
Dominations, Powers, Virtues, Principalities, Archangels, and Angels, which
Ezekiel figures out by nine Hones, which are the fapphire, emerald, carbuncle,
beryl, onyx, chryfolite, jafper, topaz, and fardis. This number hath alfo a
great and occult myftery of the crofs ;
for the ninth hour our Lord Jefus Chrift
breathed out his fpirit. The aflrologers alfo take notice of the number nine in
the ages of men, no otherwife than they do of feven, which they call climac-
terical years, which are eminent for fome remarkable change. Yet fometimes
it fignifies imperfeCtnefs and incompletenefs, becaufe it does not attain to the
perfection of the number ten, but is lefs by one, without which it is deficient,
as Auftin interprets it of the ten lepers. Neither is the longitude of nine
cubits of Og, King of Bafan, who is a type of the devil without a
myftery.
THE
Chap. XXIV, TALISMANIC MAGIC, 131
THE SCALE OF THE NUMBER NINE.
The name
of God
with nine
letters,
Jehovah Sabboath,
niias mn>
Jehovah Zidkenu,
np-ufmrv
Elohim Gibor,
'"PD’J D'HlVx
In the
original
world.
Nine
quires of
angels,
Nine
angels
ruling the
heavens,
Sera-
phim,
Merat-
tron,
Che-
rubim,
Opha-
niel,
Thrones,
Zaphkiel,
Domina-
tions,
Zadkiel,
Powers
Camael
Virtues,
Ra-
phael,
Principa-
lities,
Haniel,
Arch-
angels,
Michael,
Angels;
Gabriel;
In the
intelligible
world.
Nine
moveable
fpheres,
The
prim urn
mobile,
The
Harry
heaven,
The
fphere of
Saturn,
The
fphere of
Jupiter,
The
fphere
of
Mars,
The
fphere
of the
Sun,
The
fphere of
Venus,
The
fphere of
Mercury,
The
fphere of
the Moon;
In the
celeftial
world.
Nine
ftones re-
prefenting
the nine
quires of
angels,
Saphire
Eme-
rald,
Carbun-
cle,
Beryl, Onyx,
Chryfb-
lite,
Jafper, Topaz, Sardis;
In the ele-
mentary
world.
Nine
fenfes, in-
ward and
outward
together,
Memo-
ry*
Cogita-
tive,
Imagina-
tive,
Common
fenfe,
Hear-
ing*
Seeing, Smelling, Tailing,
Touch-
ing;
In the
leffer
world.
Nine
orders of
devils,
Falfe
Spirits,
Spirits
of
lying,
Veffels of
iniquity,
Avengers
of wicked-
nefs,
Jug-
glers,
Airy
Powers
Furies
fowing
mif-
chief,
Sifters or
triers,
Tempters,
or
enfnarers;
In the
infernal
world.
132 T ALISMANIC MAGIC. Part II.
CHAP. XXV.
OF THE NUMBER, TEN, AND THE SCALE,
THE number Ten is called every number, or an univerfal number, com-
plete, fignifying the full courfe of life ;
for beyond that we cannot number
but by replication ;
and it either implies all numbers within itfelf, or explains
them by itfelf, and its own, by multiplying- them ;
wherefore it is accounted
to be of manifold religion and power, and is applied to the purging of fouls.
Hence the antients called ceremonies Denary, becaufe they were to be expiated
and to offer facrifices, and were to abflain from fome certain things for ten days.
There are ten fanguine parts of man : the menftrues, the fperm, the pla-
fonatic fpirit, the mafs, the humours, the organical body, the vegetative part,
the fenfitive part, reafon, and the mind. There are, alfo, ten fimple integral
parts confiituting man the bone, cartilage, nerve, fibre, ligament, artery,
vein, membrane, flefh, and fldn. There are, alfo, ten parts of which ,a man
confilfs intrinfically : the fpirit, the brain, the lungs, the heart, the liver, the
gall, the fpleen, the kidnies, the teflicles, and the matrix. There are ten
curtains in the temple, ten firings in the pfaltery, ten mufical inftruments with
which the pfalms-were fung, the names whereof were neza, on which their
odes were fung ;
nablum, the fame as organs ;
mizfnor, on which the Pfalms ;
/fr, on which the Canticles •, tehila,
on which orations ;
beracha,
on which be-
nedictions ;
halel,
on which praifes •, hodaia,
on which thanks •, afre, on which
the felicity of any one ;
hallelujah,
on which the praifes of God only, and con-
templations. There were alfo ten fingers of pfalms, viz. Adam,
Abraham,
Melchifedech, Mofes, Afaph,
David,
Solomon, and the three fons of Chora.
There are, alfo, ten commandments. And the tenth day after the afcenfion
of Chrifi, the Holy Ghoft came down. Laftly, this is the number, in which
Jacob, wreftling with the Angel all night, overcame, and, at the rifing of the
fun, was bleffed, and called by the name of Ifrael. In this number, Jofhua
overcame thirty-one kings ;
and David overcame Goliah and the Philifiines ;
and Daniel efcaped the danger of the lions. This number is alfo circular, as
unity ;
becaufe, being heaped together, returns into a unity, from whence it
bad its beginning ;
and it is the end and perfect ion of all numbers, and the
begin-
Chap. XXV. TALrsMANic magic. 133
beginning- of tens. As the number ten flows back into a unity, from whence
it proceeded, fo every thing that is flowing is returned back to that from which
it had the beginning of its flux : fo water returns to the fea, from whence it
had its beginning ;
the body returns to the earth, from whence it was taken •,
time returns into eternity, from whence it flowed the fpirit (hall return to God,
who gave it ; and, laftly, every creature returns to nothing, from whence it was
created.* Neither is it fupported but by the word of God, in whom all things
are hid, and all things with the number ten, and by the number ten, make a
round, as Proclus fays, taking their beginning from God, and ending in him.
God, therefore (that firfl unity, or one thing), before he communicated himfelf
to inferiors, diffufed himfelf firfl into the firfl; of numbers, viz,, the number three
then into the number ten, as into ten ideas and meafures of making all num-
bers and all things, which the Hebrews call ten attributes, and account ten
divine names ;
from which caufe there cannot be a further number. Hence all
tens have fome divine thing- in them, and in the law are required as his own,
together with the firfl fruits, as the original of all things and beginning of num-
bers, and every tenth is as the end given to him, who is the beginning and end
of all things.
SCALE OF THE NUMBER TEN.
* At the laft, the elements give up what they have ever received ; the fea gives up her dead, the fire
gives up its fuel ; the earth gives up the feminal virtue, &c. ; and the air gives up whatever voice, found, of
impreflion it has received, fo that not an oath, lie, or fecret blafphemy, but what will appear as clear as noon-
day light at the great day of God.
THE
134 TALISMANIC MAGIC. Part II
THE SCALE OF
In the original
' m irv n in >
The name of Jehovah of ten letters colledted,
NH INI
The name of Jehovah of ten letters,
nriN
Eheie,
“im
Kether,
mm
Jod Jehovah,
nonn
Hochmah,
DTtVRmm
Jehovah Elohim,
mo
Binah,
bn
El,
“pn
Hefed,
muD’n^N
Elohim Gibor,
mnj
Geburah,
Seraphim, Cherubim, Thrones, Dominations, Powers,
In the intelli-
gible world, Hajothhakados, Orphanim, Aralim, Hafmallim, Seraphim,
Merattron, Jophiel, Zaphkiel, Zadkiel, Camael,
In the celeltial
world.
Refchith hagalla-
lim, the primum
mobile,
Mafloth, the
fphere of the
Zodiac,
Sabbathi, the
fphere of Saturn,
Zedeck, the
fphere of Jupiter,
Madim, the fphere
of Mars,
In the element-
ary world,
A dove. A lizard, A dragon, An eagle, A horfe,
In the lefler
world,
Spirit, Brain, Spleen, Liver, Gall,
In the infernal
world,
Falfe gods, Lying fpirits. VelTels of iniquity,
Revengers of
wickednels,
J ugglers,
Chap. XXV. TALISMAN IC MAGIC. 135
THE NUMBER TEN.
an iv
Extended, The name Elohim Sabaoth
The name of God
with ten letters.
rr^x
Eloha,
niN32fmn*
Jehovah Sabaoth, Elohim Saboath, Sadai, Adonai melech
Ten names of
God.
mxsn
Tiphereth, Nezah, Hod,
*
71 D>
Jefod,
nn'?o
Malchuth ;
Ten Sephiroth.
Virtues,
Malachim,
Principalities,
Elohim,
Archangels,
Ben Elohim,
Angels,
Cherubim,
Bleffed fouls
Iflim
Ten orders of the
bleffed, according
to Dionyfius.
Ten orders of the
bleffed, according
to the traditions of
The foul of
Mefliah ;
- men.
Raphael, Haniel, Michael, Gabriel, Ten angels ruling.
Schemes, the
fphere of the
Sun,
Noga, the fphere
of Venus,
Cochab, the
fphere of Mer-
cury,
Levanah, the
fphere of the
Moon,
Holom Jelbdoth,
the fphere of the
elements;
Tenlpheres of the
world.
Lion, Man, The fox. Bull, Lamb Ten animals conse-
crated to the gods.
Heart, Kidnies, Lungs, Genitals, Matrix ;
Ten parts intrin-
fical of man.
Airy powers,
Furies, the femi-
naries of evil.
Sifters, or triers,
Tempters, or en-
fnarers,
Wicked fouls
bearing rule
Ten orders of the
damned.
CHAP,
136 TALISMANIC MAGIC, Part II.
CHAP. XXVI.
OF THE NUMBERS ELEVEN AND TWELVE, WITH THE CABALISTICAL SCALE.
THE number Eleven, as it exceeds number ten, which is the number of
the commandments, fo it falls ihort of the number Twelve, which is of grace
and perfection ;
therefore it is called the number of fins, and the penitent.
Now the number twelve is divine, and that whereby the celeltials are mea-
fured it is, alfo, the number of figns in the Zodiac, over which there are
twelve
* The ufe of thefe Scales, in the compofition of Talifmans, Seals, Rings, &c., mult be obvious to every
ftudent upon infpeftion, and are indifpenfably neceflary to the producing of any effeft whatever that the
artift may propofe to himfelf ;
for, as we have before obferved, all things were formed according to the pro-
portion of numbers, this feeming to be the principal pattern in the mind of the Creator ;
therefore, when at
any time we fet about any work or experiment in Celeftial Magic, we are to have efpecial regard to the rule
of numbers and proportions. For example, if we would obtain the celeftial influence of any ftar, we are,
firft of all, to obferve at what time that flar is powerful in the heavens, 1 mean in good afpedt with the bene-
fices, and ruling in the day and hour appropriated to the planet, and in fortunate places of the figure ;
then
we are to obferve what divine names are ruling the intelligences, or fpirits, to which the faid planets are fub-
jedt with their charadters (which you may fee at large in the Magical Tables of Numbers) ; then, by referring
to the above Tables of the Scales, we may fee, by infpedlion, to what numbers are attributed divine names,
and, under them, the orders of the intelligences—the heavenly fpheres —elements and their propetties—ani-
mals, metals, and ltones—powers of the foul—fenfes of man—virtues —the princes of the evil fpirits
—places
of punifhment—degrees of the damned fouls —degrees of torments hereafter—and every thing that is either
in heaven, or earth, or hell ;
—all our fenfes, motions, qualities, virtues, words, or works, are fubmitted to
the proportions of numbers, as you may fee fully exemplified in the different Scales of the Numbers
and all things that are knowable are demonllrable by them, and are attributed to them ;
therefore great is
the knowledge and wifdom to be derived from numbers. Therefore the artiff muff be well acquainted
with their virtues and properties—by them there is a way open for the knowing and underftanding of all
things ;
therefore let him diligently contemplate thefe Scales, and likewife what we have fet down in
our fourteenth and fifteenth Chapters preceding the Scales, where we have, upon good authority,
explained fuffkiently the extent and force of formal numbers, which ought to be well underftood and
attentively confidered, as the ground and foundation of all our operations in this fcience, without which
we are defrauded of the defired effedt : therefore whenever we intend to fet about any experiment,
whether it be an image, or ring, or tablet, oi mirror, or amulet, or any other inftrument, we are to note firff
the iite, order, number, and government of the intelligence and his planet, his meafure of time, revolution in
the heavens, Sic. ;
likewife we are to engrave or write upon it its number, intelligence, or fpirit, either for a
good or bad effedt, with the fuitable characters and tables ;
likewife the effedt defired, with the divine names
congruent thereto ;
fo that our operations may be ffrong, powerful, and fuitable to the conftellation and ftar,
both in time, number, and proportion j
with a due and attentive obfervation of all that we have written con-
cerning
Chap. XXVI. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 137 <
twelve angels as chief, fupported by the irrigation of the great name of God.
In twelve years, alfo, Jupiter perfects his courfe ;
and the Moon daily runs
through twelve degrees. There are, alfo, twelve chief joints in the body of man,
viz. in hands, elbows, fhoulders, thighs, knees, and vertebra of the feet. There
is, alfo, a great power of the number twelve in divine myfteries. God chofe
twelve families of Ifrael* and fet over them twelve princes ;
fo many Hones
were placed in the midft of Jordan ;
and God commanded that fo many Ihould
be fet on the breaft of the prieft. Twelve lions did bear the brazen fea that
was made by Solomon ;
there were fo many fountains in Helim ;
and fo
many Apoflles of Chriffc fet over the twelve tribes ;
and twelve thoufand people
were fet apart and chofen.
cerning this, without which all our operations could never be brought to have the effeCt defired ; and we are
to mind that whenever fuch an inllrument is perfected, that it is the more powerful when the planet or con-
ftellation (under which it was conftruCted) is ruling and potent in the Heavens ; for at that time, whatever
we defire to bring to perfection by the faid Talifman, as a medium and inftrument, (hall by no means be pre-
vented or hindered. Therefore take this as a general rule, that all magical inftruments whatfoever have no
power in themfelves, further than as they are formed under the influences, and according to the times and
numbers of their proper ftars and conftellations ; hence is derived the title we give this Book, viz. the:
Conjlellatory Art, or Talifmanic Magic. Thofe who would further confider the power, virtue, extent, and
harmony of numbers, let them read Pythagoras, Plato, Averroena, Averroes, &c. who all agree in the
virtues lying hid in numbers ; and without the knowledge of which, no man can be a true philofopher.
13S TAUSMANIC MAGIC* Part II
THE SCALE OF
!'he names -oi
God with
twelve letters,
Kin
Holy,
nra
BlelTed,
t!*rprr
He,
The great name
returned back
into twelve ban-
ners,
mn» inrv nnv »mn nnrt vnrt
Twelve orders
of blelTed Ipi-
rits,
Seraphim, Cherubim, Thrones, Dominations, Powers, Virtue?,
Twelve angels
ruling over the
twelve figns.
Malchidial, Afmodel, Ambriel, Muriel, Verchiel, Hamaliel,
Twelve tribes, Dan, Ruben, Judah, ManalTeh, Afher, Simeon,
Twelve pro-
phets,
Malachi, Haggai, Zachariah, Amos, Hofea, Micba,
Twelve apof-
tles,
Matthias, Thaddeus, Simon, John, Peter, Andrew,
Twelve figns
of the Zodiac,
Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Leo, Virgo,
Twelve months March, April, May, June, July, Augud,
Twelve plants, Sang,
Upright ver-
vain,
Bending ver-
vain,
Comfrey, Ladies’ feal, Calamint,
Twelve ftones, Sardonius, A cornelian. Topaz, Calcedony, Jafper, Emerald,
Twelve princi-
pal members,
Head, Neck, Arms, Bread, Heart, Belly,
Twelve degrees
of the damned,
and of devils.
Falfe gods, Lying fpirits,
Veffels of ini-
quity,
Revengers of
wickednefs,
Jugglers, Airy powers,
Chap. XXVI TALISMANIC MAGIC. 139
THE NUMBER TWELVE.
tynpnnninnK
Father, Son, Holy Ghoft.
A
In the ori-
ginal world.
Hm nnv n>n» m*n nvn 'inn
Principalities, Archangels, Angels, Innocents, Martyrs, Confeffors.
In the intel-
ligible world.
Zuriel, Barbiel, Adnachiel, Hanael, Gabriel, Barchiel.
Iflachar, Benjamin, Naphthalin, Gad, Zabulon, Ephraim.
Jonah, Obadiah, Zephaniah, Nahum, Habakkuk, Joel.
Bartholomew, Philip,
James the
elder,
Thomas, Matthew,
James the
younger.
Libra, Scorpius, Sagittarius,
a
Capricorn, Aquarius, Pifces.
In the celef
tial world.
September, Oftober, November, December, January, February.
In the ele-
mental
world.
Scorpion grafs, Mugwort, Pimpernel, Dock, Dragonwort, Ariflolochy.
Beryl, Amethyfi, Hyacinth, Chryfophrafus, Chryflal, Sapphire.
Kidnies, Genitals, Hams, Knees, Legs, Feet.
In the ele-
mentary
world.
Furies, the
fowers of evil,
Sifters, or triers,
Tempters, or
enfnarers,
Witches, ApoHates, Infidels.
In the infer-
nal world.
S 2 CHAP,
HO TALISMANIC MAGIC. Part II.
CHAP. XXVII.
OF TIIE NOTES OF TIIE HEBREWS AND CHALDEANS, AND OTHER NOTES OF MAGICIANS.
THE Hebrew characters have marks of numbers attributed to them far more
excellent than any other language, fmee the greateft myfteries lie in the
Hebrew letters, as is handled concerning thefe in that part of Cabala which we
call Notariacon. Now the principal Hebrew letters are in number twenty-
two, whereof five have various other certain figures in the end of a word, which,
therefore, they call the five ending letters, which, being added to them afore-
faid, make twenty-feven ; which being then divided into three degrees, fignify
units, which are in the firfl degree—tens, which are in the fecond—and
hundreds, which are in the third degree. Now every one, if they are marked
with a great character, fignifies fo many thoufands, as here
3000 2000 1000
3 3 K
The dalles of the Hebrew numbers are thefe which follow
987 6 543-21
d n i ) rr t l 3 k
go 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10
X D y D 3 ft b 3 >
900 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100
VT i
a *j n w n p
Sometimes the final letters are not ufed, but we write thus :
1000 900 800 700 600 500
n nnp nn nttf m np
And by thofe fimple figures, and by the joining them together, they de-
scribe all other compound numbers : as eleven, twelve, an hundred and ten, an
hundred
Chap. XXVII. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 141
hundred and eleven, by adding1
to the number ten thofe which are units •, and
in the like manner to the reft, after their manner ;
yet we defcribe the fifteenth
number not* by ten and five, but by nine and fix, viz. di ;
and that out of
honour to the Divine name rr, which fignifies fifteen, left that facred name
fhould be abufed to profane things. Likewife the Egyptians, Ethiopians,
Chaldeans, and Arabians, have their marks of numbers, which, ferve for the
making of magical characters ;
but the Chaldeans mark their numbers with
the letters of their alphabet, after the manner of the Hebrews. I found, in a
very antient book of Magic,, fame very elegant characters, which I have
figured in the following manner :
12 3 4 5 6 7 9
r r r r r r r f p
Now of thefe characters, turned towards the left hand, are made tens,
•• •
i
'
10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90
Tin *1
'I ft 1 1
And thofe marks being downwards, to the right hand, make hundreds ;
to
the left, thoufands,; viz^
100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900
Lm j. i l h b
1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000 7000 8000 9000
J J >1 J 4 il J rl J
And
142 TALISMANIC MAGIC. Part II.
And by the compofition and mixture of thefe characters, other compound
numbers are moft elegantly made, as you may perceive by thefe few :
1510 1486
1
2421
X
CHAP. XXVIII.
TIIE MAGIC TABLES OF THE PLANETS THEIR FORM AND VIRTUE WHAT DIVINE NAMES,
INTELLIGENCES, AND SPIRITS, ARE SET OVER THEM.
THERE are certain magic tables of numbers diftributed to the feven planets,
which they call the facred tables of the planets ;
becaufe, being rightly form-
ed, they are endued with many great virtues of the heavens, infomuch that
they reprefent the divine order of the celeftial numbers, impreffed upon them
by the ideas of the divine mind, by means of the foul of the world, and the
fweet harmony of thofe celeftial rays ;
fignifying, according to proportion,
fuperceleftial intelligences, which can no other way be exprefled than by the
marks of numbers, letters, and characters ;
for material numbers and figures
can do nothing in the myfteries of hidden things, but reprefentatively by
formal numbers and figures, as they are governed and informed by intelli-
gences and divine enumerations, which unite the extremes of the matter and
fpirit to the will of the elevated foul, receiving (through great affeCtion, by
the celeftial power of the operator) a virtue and power from God, applied
through the foul of the univerfe ;
and the obfervation of celeftial conftellations
to
V ’»
s.
'
-jr~
'
J ,
/Yale /.
/,C /7a/'/e*J . fetzY /'* (s/t/t ftrA > <J f.^/ '//fr//r/zzr/s //z^ls- . jC?/s//y/v; rr
/7~/tr . Ja/'/r /s< /n Yu+j (
it/a
4 9 2
3 s 7
8 / 6
\
iJ/ie e .4a//e Y/rA'/ two
P a 3
J n r
n X
A/Ae, , AeaA a^^YaYtzSny
AAA-e YaAA sr /ee/iz Ae3y
YAAYL
4 '4 /J /
9 7 6 /2
J // /O 8
/6 2 3 /3
\ , Y/i YAe/i
-beets
Cjz/
—
O
YAze-Y<zA/e ojY'/AccsZ.j
// 24- 7 26> J
4 22 2S 8 ,6
'7 J /3 2/ .9
/o /8 / /4 22
23 6 29 2 /3
c?
YAy/z 6
Ay Att*> Yti/eAAz^&/?yyz e/Y ts^> L
“I > TO H
ID f 7 J">
P ,V’ J
n
V D j: r
PD r D 4
n HD n V
T\ n V TO £3
>
n r
X l] 3D
A3 O' 3 m
DcfifmY b v FBarrett
.
Pub. by B GLck.mgtorL .Allen fy Co.
Engra^tY by JK>
Chap. XXVIII. TALiSMANlC MAGIC. '
143
to a matter fit for a form, the mediums being difpofed by the fkill and in-
duftry of the magician.
But now we will haften to explain each particular table.* The firft table
is affigned to the planet Saturn, and confifts of a fquare of three, containing
the particular numbers of nine, and in every line three every way, and through
each diameter making fifteen—the whole fum of numbers forty-five q over this
are fet fuch divine names as fill up the numbers with an intelligence, to what is.
good, and a fpirit to bad ; and out of the fame numbers are drawn the feal
and character of Saturn, and of the fpirits thereof, fuch as is beneath afcribed
to the table.
Now this table being with a fortunate Saturn, engraven on a plate of lead,
helps child-birth ;
and to make any man fafe or powerful ;
and to caufe fuc-
cefs of petitions with princes and powers ;
but if it be done, Saturn being un-
fortunate, it hinders buildings, planting, and the like, and calls a man from
honours and dignities, caufes difcord, quarrelling, and difperfes an army.
The fecond is the table of Jupiter, which confifts of a fquare drawn into
itfelf ;
it contains fixteen particular numbers, and in every line and diameter
four, making thirty-four ;
the fum of all is one hundred and thirty-fix. There
are over it divine names, with an intelligence to that which is good, and a
fpirit to bad ;
and out of it is drawn the character of Jupiter and the fpirits
thereof; if this is engraven on a plate of filver, with Jupiter being powerful
and ruling in the heavens, it conduces to gain riches and favour, love, peace,
and concord, and to appeafe enemies, and to confirm honours, dignities, and
counfels ;
and diftolves enchantments if engraven on a coral.
The third table belongs to Mars, which is made of a fquare of five, con-
taining twenty-five numbers, and of thefe, in every fide and diameter, five,
which makes fixty-five, and the fum of all is three hundred and twenty-five ;
and there are over it divine names with an intelligence to good, and a fpirit to
evil, and out of it is drawn the characters of Mars and of his fpirits. Thefe,
with Mars fortunate, being engraven on an iron plate, or fword, makes
* For the figure of the Tables, Seals, Characters, &c. of the feven Planets, fee the following Plates.
a man
TALISMANIC MAGIC.
144 TALISMANIC MAGIC. Part II.
a man potent in war and judgment, and petitions, and terrible to his enemies,
and victorious over them ;
and if engraven upon the Hone correola, it flops
blood, and the menftrues ;
but if it be engraven, with Mars being unfortunate,
on a plate of red brafs, it prevents and hinders buildings—it calls down the
powerful from dignities, honours, and riches—caufes difcord and hatred,
amongfl men and bealfs—drives away bees, pigeons, and fifh—-and hinders
mills from working, /. e. binds them ; —it likewife renders hunters and fighters
unfortunate—caufes barrennefs in men and women-—and flrikes a terror into
our enemies, and compels them to fubmit.
The fourth table is of the Si///, and is made of a fquare of fix, and contains
thirty-fix particular numbers, whereof fix in every fide and diameter produce
one hundred and eleven, and the fum of all is fix hundred and fixty-fix ;
there
are over it divine names, with an intelligence to what is good, and a fpirit to
what is evil, and out of it is drawn the chara6Ier of the Sun and of his fpirits.
This being engraven on a plate of pure gold, Sol being fortunate, renders him
that wears it renowned, amiable, acceptable, potent in all his works, and equals
him to a king, elevating his fortunes, and enabling him to do whatever he
will. But with an unfortunate Sun, it makes one a tyrant, proud, ambitious,
infatiable, and finally to come to an ill ending.
The fifth table is of Venus ;
confifting of a fquare of feven, drawn into
itfelf, viz. of forty-nine numbers, whereof feven on each fide and diameter
make one hundred and feventy-five, and the fum of all is one thoufand two
hundred and twenty-five ;
there are, likewife, over it divine names, with an
intelligence to good, and a fpirit to evil ;
and there is drawn out of it the cha-
racter of Venus, and her fpirits. This being engraven on a plate of filver,
Venus being fortunate, promotes concord, ends ftrife, procures the love of
women, helps conception, is good againft barrennefs, gives ability for gene-
ration, ditfolves enchantments, caufes peace between man and woman, and
makes all kinds of animals fruitful, and likewife cattle ;
and being put into a
dove or pigeon houfe, caufes an increafe ;
it likewife drives away melancholy
diftempers, and caufes joyfulnefs and this being carried about travellers,
makes
^ tfoAiSj of T/LaAi
6 32 3 39 35 /
7 71 27 29 V 30
19 13 76 73 23 2A
1$ 20 22 27 73
25 29 70 d? 26 72
3b 5 33 A 2 37
\
1 nS l 5* pS *
T TD np n s
tr -r V rr JP *0
rv ti ns X3 T' y
nn B3 £3 73 y
n \*> *7
3 xS
A^Aes <AAaAAe/ erf foAzaoa r&? TP<77n//z~<z3
37' 76 A1 10 35 A
23 9-3 77 A2 11 23
6 29 39 21 36 12
/j 31 7 25 93 19 37
39 1A 32 7 26 A5 20
2/ 33 9 33 2 27 95
A 13 AO c9 33 3 22
un^
3D| Ttf! V *
TlS
,n m nx P a« x’ £33
_V_ 1 na n ’
iS 3;
V xS -4- ,13 J0 £T TV
-p
pi -V T3 p
XD nS n IS 3 ra n«
7^3 n* £3 ; ro
larretf Dei R.GnfJith Scu
Pub by Lac/cvnyrlon. *4 ~-iblen-
I
/
cpf lAc 6^/cmeAi L/iei/c • jin 6e/luperic&j
^
/ApuriAi
tJ6ocnv t/rv L&y ^pyyn.pux^*} •A/a/le, O'/ iJbcS) uvo/Abe'/''! *DLAS Jv o6e*j
37 78 09 70 01 62 13 66 5
6 38 19 30 71 00 63 16
A7 7 39 80 31 70 03 66 16
16 IS 8 90 81 32 66 06 66
67 17 49 9 61 73 33 65 06
Tip 68 18 60 1 60 76 36 66
67 0.7 69 10 61 0. 63 76 66
36 68 19 60 // 60 3 66 76
77 08 69 00 61 10 63 9 AS
ny DO y XD DO V na n
nn W s xy ID 3'
P r zh oy 35 713 rr
V TP n » s*s 33 ID 33 33
n r m » xo :v 37) no 7!3>
V 713 n* : s 33 iy ID
r d D BJ
>
w 3 ja ny n"?
'll no t S
D K* 33 -i3 )y
rv ro nz 5 XD 3' Ii n HD
Pub by LacAincrbote Sc .LLien. .
H. Griffith Sculpy
rrelb Del.
& 63 5,9 5 4 62 63 /
49 /J /4 52 53 // /o 56
4-1 23- 22 44- 43 M- r$ A5_
32 64 63 29 2J 55 23
40 23 V 31 56 30 3/ 33
/
7
47 46 20 2/ 43 42 16L
9 55 54- /2 J3 5/ 50 /6
64 2 3 6/ 60 6 7 57
n m a: '7 2D JD
E3/2 W f* 33 33 13
3P 33 no na 3’ rr frrs
7*7 n*7 V3 H3 n7 B*? TO
£) 72 13 J*7 71 *7 X7 37
r JO 30 3 JO 33 73
u n "0 3 T
3' N
y
3 3 V
ID j 3 KD D 7 ? u
J?ivb. by L acTcinqbo Jllen & Co.
\
X
Chap. XXVIII. TALISMANfC MAGIC. 143
makes them fortunate. But if it be formed upon brais, Venus being' unfor-
tunate, it a6Is contrary to all that has been faid.
The fixth table is of Mercury, refulting from a fquare of eight drawn into
itfelf, containing fixty-four numbers, whereof eight on every fide and by both
diameters make two hundred and fixty, and the fum of all is two thoufand and
eighty ;
and over it are fet divine names, with an intelligence to good, with a
fpirit to bad, and from it is drawn a character of Mercury, and the fpirits
thereof ;
and if, with Mercury being fortunate, you engrave it upon filver,
tin, or yellow brafs, or write it upon virgin parchment, it renders the bearer
'
thereof grateful, acceptable, and fortunate to do what hepleafes : it brings gain,
and prevents poverty ;
helps the memory, underftanding, and divination, and
to the underftanding of occult things by dreams ; but with an unfortunate
Mercury does every thing contrary to this.
The feventh and laft table is of the Moon : it conftfts of a fquare of nine,
having eighty-one numbers in every fide, and diameter nine, producing^ three
hundred and fixty-nine ;
and the fum of all is three thoufand three hundred
and twenty-one. There are over it divine names, with an intelligence to what
is good, and a fpirit to evil ;
and from it are drawn the charaHers of the Moon
and the fpirits thereof. This, the Moon being fortunate, engraven on filver,
makes the bearer amiable, pleafant, cheerful, and honoured, removing all
malice and ill-will ;
it caufes fecurity in a journey, increafe of riches, and
health of body ;
drives away enemies, and other evil things from what place
foever thou fhalt wifh them to be expelled. But if the Moon be unfortunate,
and it be engraved on a plate of lead, wherever it fhall be buried it makes that
place unfortunate, and the inhabitants thereabouts, as alfo fhips, rivers, foun-
tains, and mills *, and it makes every man unfortunate againft whom it fhall be
directly done, making him fly his place of abode (and even his country)
where it fhall be buried ;
and it hinders phyficians and orators, and all men
whatfoever in their office, againft whom it fhall be made.
Now how the feals and characters of the planets are drawn from thefe tables,
the wife fearcher, and he who fhall underhand the verifying of thefe tables,
fhall eafily find out.
Book I. T Here
TALISMANIC MAGIC."
146 talismanic magic." Part II.
Here follow the divine names correfponding with the numbers of the planets,
with the names of the intelligences and daemons, or fpirits, fubjeCt to thofe
names.
It is to be underftood that the intelligences are the prefiding good angels
that are fet over the planets ;
but that the fpirits or daemons, with their names,
feals, or characters, are never infcribed upon any Talifman, except to execute
any evil effeCt, and that they are fubjeCt to the intelligences, or good fpirits
and again, when the fpirits and their characters are ufed, it will be more con-
ducive to the effeCt to add fome divine name appropriate to that effeCt which
we defire.
Names anfwering to the Numbers of Saturn.
h
Numbers. Divine Names. Divine Names in Hebrew.
3 Ab ns
9 Hod “in
15 Jah n*
15 Hod Tin
45 Jehovah extended snisisitnr*
45 Agiel, the Intelligence of Saturn ^S’JS
45 Zazel, the Spirit of Saturn bm
Names anfwering to the Numbers of Jupiter.
n
4 Aba sns
16 mn
16 >ns
34 El Ab ns^s
136 Joliphiel, the Intelligence of Jupiter ^S'Dn*
136 Hismael, the Spirit of Jupiter ^NDDil
Names anfwering to the Numbers of Mars
8
5 He, the letter of the holy name n
25 >n>
65 Adonai >ns
Numbers
Chap. XXVIII. TALTSMANIC MAGIC. 147
Numbers. Divine Names. Divine Names in Hebrew:
325 Graphiel, the Intelligence of Mars
325 Barzabel, the Spirit of Mars
Names anfwering to the Numbers of the Sun,
o
6
Vau, the letter of the holy name >
6 He extended, the letter of the holy name '
. sn
36 Eloh nV#
11 1 Nachiel, the Intelligence of the Sun
666 Sorath, the Spirit of the Sun rrnD
r
* »
Names anfwering to the Numbers of Venus.
s
7 Aha NHK
49 Hagiel, the Intelligence of Venus
175 Kedemel, the Spirit of Venus b.so*7p
1225 Bne Seraphim, the Intelligence of Venus 03
Names anfwering to the Numbers of Mercury.
3
8 Asboga, eight extended ruam
64 Din
64 Doni
260 Tiriel, the Intelligence of Mercury ^N*“VD
2080 Taplhartharatb, the Spirit of Mercury JTimnsn
Names anfwering to the Numbers of the Moon.
3
9 Hod <7,1
8 1 Elim
369 Hasmodai, the Spirit of the Moon ’N^IDtiTT
332 1 Schedbarschemoth Schartatlian, the Spirit of the Spiritsof the Moon inJTWnyDntl>“Q'7ty
3321 Malcha betharsisim hed beruah schehalim, the Intelligence of the
Intelligences of the Moon
t 2 -
CHAF.
US TAIJSMANIC MAGIC. Part II.
CHAP. XXIX.
OF THE OBSERVATION OF THE CELESTIALS NECESSARY IN EVERY MAGICAL WORK.
EVERY natural virtue works things far more wonderful when it is not only
Compounded of a natural proportion, but alfo is informed by a choice obfervation
of the celeftials opportune to this (viz. when the celeftial power is moft ftrong to
that effe6t: which we defire, and alfo helped by many celeftials), by fubjetting
inferiors to the celeftials, as proper females, to be made fruitful by their males.
Alfo, in every work there are to be obferved the fituation, motion, and afpeCt of
the liars and planets, in figns and degrees, and how all thefe ftand in reference
to the length and latitude of the climate ;
for by this are varied the qualities
of the angles, which the rays of the celellial bodies upon the figure of the thing
defcribe, according to which celeftial virtues are infufed. So when you are
working any thing which belongs to any planet, you muft place it in its dig-
nities, fortunate, and powerful, and ruling in the day hour, and in the figure
of the heavens. Neither muft you expeCt the fignification of the work to be
powerful, but you muft obferve the Moon opportunely direCted to this •> for
you fhall do nothing- without the afiiftance of the Moon. And if you have
more patterns of your work, obferve them all, being moft powerful, and looking
upon one another with a friendly afpeCt ;
and if you cannot have fuch afpeCts,
it will be convenient at leaf! that you take them angular. But you fhall take
the Moon either when the looks upon both, or is joined to one, and looks upon
the other, or when when fhe pafles from the conjunction or afpeCt of one,, to
the conjunction or afpeCt of the other ;
for that, I conceive, muft in no wife
be omitted. Alfo, you fhall in every work obferve Mercury, for he is a
meffenger between the higher gods and the infernal gods : when he goes to the
good, he increafes their goodnefs—when to the bad, he hath influence on their
wickcdnefs. We call it an unfortunate fign or planet, when it is, by the
afpeCt of Saturn or Mars efpecially, oppofite or quadrant, for thefe are the
afpeCts of enmity ;
but a conjunction, a trine, and a fextile afpeCt, are of friend-
ship between thefe there is a greater conjunction ; but yet if you do already
behold
Chap. XXX. TALISMANIC MAGIC. ! ^
behold it through a trine, and the planet be received, it is accounted as al-
ready conjoined. Now all planets are afraid of the conjundlion of the Sun,
rejoicing in the trine, and Textile afpedt thereof.
CHAP. XXX.
WHEN THE .PLANETS ARE OF MOST POWERFUL INFLUENCE..
NOW we fhall have the planets powerful when they are ruling in a houfe, or
in exaltation, or triplicity, or term, or face, without combuftion of what is
direct in the figure of the heavens, viz. when they are in angles, efpecially of
the rifing, or tenth, or in houfes prefently fucceeding, or in their delights ;
but we mull take heed that they are not in the bounds or under the dominion
of Saturn or Mars, left they be in dark degrees, in pits, or vacuities. You
fhall obferve that the angles of the afcendant, and tenth, and feventh, be for-
tunate ; as alfo the lord of the afcendant, and place of the Sun and Moon, and
place of the part of fortune, and the lord thereof, the lord of the foregoing
conjunction and prevention. But that they of the malignant planet fall un-
fortunate ;
unlefs happily they be fignificators of thy work,, or can be of any
advantage to thee, or in thy revolution or birth they had the predominance,
for then they are not at all to be deprefled. Now we fhall have the Moon
powerful if fhe be in her houfe, or exaltation, or triplicity, or face, or in de-
gree convenient for the defired work ;
and if it hath a manfton of thefe twenty-
eight, fuitable to itfelf and the work, let her not in the way be burnt up,* nor
flow in courfe—let her not be in the eclipfe, or burnt by the Sun, unlefs fhe be
in unity with the Sun—let her not defcend in the fouthern latitude, when fhe
goeth out of the burning—neither let her be oppofite to the Sun, nor deprived
of light—let her not be hindered by Mars or Saturn,
* Via Combufta.
CHAP.
150 TAL1SMANIC MAGIC. Part It
CFIAP. XXXI.
OBSERVATIONS ON THE FIXED STARS, AND THEIR NAMES AND NATURES.
THERE is the like confideration to be had in all thing's concerning the fixed
ftars._ Know this, that all the fixed ftars are of the fignification and nature of
the feven planets ; but fome are of the nature of one planet, and fome of two.
Hence, as often as any planet is joined with any of the fixed ftars of its own
nature, the fignification of that ftar is made more powerful, and the nature of
the planet augmented ;
but if it be a ftar of two natures, the nature of that
which fliall be the ftronger with it, fliall overcome in fignification : as for ex-
ample, if it be of the nature of Mars and Venus, if Mars fliall be the ftronger
with it, the nature of Mars fhall overcome ;
but if Venus, the nature of Venus
fliall overcome. Now the natures of fixed ftars are difcovered by their colours,
as they agree with certain planets, and are afcribed to them. Now the colours
of the planets are thefe : —of Saturn, blue, and leaden, and Aiming with this ;
of Jupiter, citrine, near to a palenefs, and clear with this ;
of Mars, red and
fiery ;
of the Sun, yellow, and when it rifes red, afterwards glittering ;
of
Venus, white and fliining—white in the morning, and reddifh in the evening ;
of Mercury, glittering ;
of the Moon, fair. Know, alfo, that of the fixed
ftars, by how much the greater, and brighter, and apparent they are, fo much
the greater and ftronger is the fignification: fuch are thofe ftars called by
the aftrologers of the firft and fe.cond magnitude. I will tell thee fome of thefe
which are more potent to this faculty, viz. the navel of Andromeda, in the
twenty-fecond degree of Aries, of the nature of Venus and Mercury—fome call
it jovial and faturnine ;
the head of Algol, in the eighteenth degree of Taurus,
of the nature of Saturn and Jupiter ;
the Pleiades are alfo in the twenty-fecond
degree, a lunary ftar by nature, and complexion martial ;
alfo Aldeboram, in
the third degree of Gemini, is of the nature of Mars, and complexion of
Venus—but Hermes places this in the twenty-fifth degree of Aries ;
the Goat
ftar, in the thirteenth degree of Gemini, is of the nature of Jupiter and
Saturn ;
the Great Dog ftar is in the feventh degree of Cancer and Venereal
the
TALISMANIC MAGIC. 151
Chap. XXXI.
the Little Dog1
ftar is in the feventeenth degree of the fame, and is of the na-
ture of Mercury, and complexion of Mars ; the King* ftar, which is called the
Heart of the Lion, is in the twenty-firft degree of Leo, and of the nature of
Jupiter and Mars •, the tail of the Great Bear is in the nineteenth degree of
Virgo, and is venereal and lunary. The ftar which is called the Right Wing
of the Crow, is in the feventh degree of Libra ;
and in the thirteenth degree
of the fame, is the left wing of the fame, and both of the nature of Saturn and
Mars. The ftar called Spica, is in the ftxteenth degree of the fame, and is
venereal and mercurial. In the feventeenth degree of the fame is Alcameth,
of the nature of Mars and Jupiter ;
but of this, when the Sun’s afpedf is full
towards it—of that, when on the contrary. Elepheia, in the fourth degree of
Scorpio, of the nature of Venus and Mars. The Heart of the Scorpion is in
the third degree of Sagittarius, of the nature of Mars and Jupiter. The fall-
ing Vulture is in the feventh degree of Capricorn, temperate, mercurial, and
venereal. The tail of Capricorn is in the ftxteenth degree of Aquarius, of the
nature of Saturn and Mercury. The ftar called the Shoulder of the Horfe, is
in the third degree of Pifces, of the nature of Jupiter and Mars.—And it fhall
be a general rule for you to expedf the proper gifts of the ftars, whiift they
rule—to be prevented of them, they being unfortunate, as is above fiiewed ;
for celeftial bodies, inafmuch as they are affedled fortunately or unfortunately,
fo much do they affedt us, our works, and thofe things which we ufe, for-
tunately or unhappily. And although many effedts proceed from the fixed
ftars, yet they are attributed to the planets ;
as becaufe being more near to us,
and more diftindt and known, fo becaufe they execute whatever the fuperior
ftars communicate to them.
CHAP.
152 ^ALISMANIC MAGIC. Part II.
CHAP. XXXII.
OF THE SUN AND MOON, AND THEIR MAGICAL CONSIDERATIONS.
THE Sun and Moon have obtained the adminiftration of ruling' the hea-
vens, and all bodies under the heavens. The Sun is the lord of all elementary
virtues ;
and the Moon, by virtue of the Sun, ismiftrefs of generation, increase
or decreafe. Albumfar fay’s, that by the Sun and Moon, life is infufed into
all things *, which Orpheus calls the enlivening eyes of Heaven. The Sun
giveth light to all things of itfelf, and gives it plentifully, not only to all things
in heaven and air, but earth and deep. Whatever good we have, Jamblicus
fays, we have it from the Sun alone ; or from it through other things. Hera-
clitus calls the Sun, the fountain of celeftial light ; and many of the Platonifts
placed the foul of the world chiefly in the Sun, as that which, filling the whole
globe of the Sun, doth fend forth its rays on all fides, as it were a fpirit through
all things, diftributing life, fenfe, and motion to the univerfe. Hence the
antient naturalifts called the Sun the very heart of Heaven ;
and the Chaldeans
put it as the middle of the Planets. The Egyptians alfo placed it in the middle
of the world, viz. between the two fives of the world ;
1 . e. above the Sun they
place five planets, and under him, the Moon and four elements. For it is,
among!! the other liars, the image and ftatue of the great Prince of both
worlds, viz. terreftrial and celeftial ;
the true light, and the moft exa61 image
of God himfelf : whofe eflence refembles the Father—light, the Son—heat,
the Holy Ghoft. So that the Platonifts have nothing to hold forth the divine
eflence more manifeftly by than this. The Sun difpofes even the very fpirit
and mind of man, which Homer fays, and is approved by Ariftotle, that
there are in the mind fuch like motions as the Sun, the prince and moderator
of the planets, brings to us every day ;
but the Moon, the neareft to the earth,
the receptacle of all the heavenly influences, by the fwiftnefs of her courfe, is
joined to the Sun, and the other planets and liars, every month ;
and receiv-
ing the beams and influences of all the other planets and liars, as a conception,
bringing them forth to the inferior world, as being next to itfelf ;
for all the
ftars
Chap. XXXIII. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 153
liars have Influence on it, being the laft receiver, which afterwards communi-
cates the influence of all the fuperiors to thefe inferiors, and pours them forth
on the earth ;
and it more manifeftly difpofes thefe inferiors than others.
Therefore her motion is to be obferved before the others, as the parent of all
conceptions, which it diverfely iffues forth in thefe inferiors, according to the
diverfe complexion, motion, fltuation, and different afpefts to the planets and
other ftars *, and though it receives powers from all the fears, yet efpecially
from the Sun, as oft as it is in conjunction with Ihe fame, it is replenifhed
with vivifying virtue ;
and, according to the afpefil thereof, it borrows its
complexion. From it the heavenly bodies begin that feries of things which
Plato calls the golden chain ; by which every thing and caufe, being linked
one to another, do depend on the fuperior, even until it may be brought unto
the fupreme caufe of all, from which all things depend ;
hence it is, that,
without the Moon intermediating, we cannot at any time attra6I the power of
the fuperiors ;
therefore, to obtain the virtue of any flar, take the hone and
herb of that planet, when the Moon fortunately comes under, or has a good
afpeft on, that flar.
CHAP XXXIII.
OF THE TWENTY-EIGHT MANSIONS OF THE MOON, AND THEIR VIRTUES.
AND feeing the Moon meafures the whole fpace of the Zodiac in the time
of twenty-eight days, hence it is that the wife men of the Indians,
and mofl
of the antient aftrologers have granted twenty-eight manflons to the Moon,
which, being fixed in the eighth fphere, do enjoy (as Aljiharus fays) divers
names and properties, from the various figns and ftars which are contained in
them ; through which, while the Moon wanders, it obtains many other powers
and virtues 5
but every one of thefe manflons, according to the opinion of
Abraham, contained twelve degrees, and fifty-one minutes, and almoft twenty-
Book I. U fix
154 TALISMANTC MAGIC. Part II.
fix feconds, whole names, and alfo their beginnings in the Zodiac, of the
eighth fphere, are thefe : —The firtt is called Alnath ; that is, the horns of
Aries : his beginning is from the head of Aries, of the eighth fphere ; it
eaufes difcords and journies. The fecond is called AUothaim, or Albochan ;
that is, the belly of Aries ;
and his beginning is from the twelfth degree of the-
fame fign, fifty-one minutes, twenty-two feconds complete : it conduces to the
finding of treafures, and to the retaining captives. The third is called
Achciomazon, or Athoray that is, (flowering, or Pleiades : his beginning is from
the twenty-fifth degree of Aries complete, forty-two minutes, and fifty -one
feconds ;
it is profitable to bailors, huntfmen, and alchymifts. The fourth
manfion is called Aldebaram, or Aldelcnnen ; that is, the eye or head of Taurus
his beginning is from the eighth degree of Taurus, thirty-four minutes and,
feventeen feconds of the fame, Taurus being excluded : it eaufes the deftruc-
tion and hindrances of buildings, fountains, wells, gold mines, the flight of
creeping things, and begets difeord. The fifth is called Alehatay, or Albachay
the beginning of it is after the twenty-firfl degree of Taurus, twenty-five mi-
nutes, forty feconds : it helps to the return from a journey, to the inflrudtion
of fcholars ;
it confirms edifices, it gives health and good-will. The fixth is
called Atlianna,
or Alchaya; that is, the little liar of great light : his begin-
ning is after the fourth degree of Gemini, feventeen minutes, and nine fe-
conds ; it conduces to hunting and befieging towns, and revenge of princes :
it defiroys harvefls and fruits, and hinders the operation of the phyfician. The
feventh is called Aldimiach,
or Alarzach that is, the arm of Gemini, and be-
gins from the feventeenth degree of Gemini, eight minutes, and thirty-four
feconds, and lafts even to the end of the fign •, it confirms gain and friendfhip ;
it is profitable to lovers, and deftroys magiltracies : and fo is one quarter of
the heaven completed in thefe feven manfions, and in the like order and num-
ber of degrees, minutes, and feconds ;
the remaining manfions, in every
quarter, have their feveral beginnings ;
namely, fo that in the firfl fign of
this quarter three manfions take their beginnings ;
in the other two figns, two
manfions in each ;
therefore the feven following manfions begin with Cancer,
whofe names are Alnaza Anatrachya; that is, mifty or cloudy, viz. the eighth
manfion
Chap. XXXIII. '
TALISMANIC MAGIC. 155
manfion ; it caufes love, friendfliip, and fociety of fellow travellers : it drives
away mice, and affli6is captives, confirming- their imprifonment. After this
is the ninth, called Archaam,
or Arcaph', that is, the eye of the Lion : it hin-
ders harveft and travellers, and puts difcord between men. The tenth is call-
ed Algelioche,
or Albgebh; that is, the neck nr forehead of Leo : it ftrengthens
buildings, promotes love, benevolence, and help againft enemies. The ele-
venth is called Azobra, or Ardaf; that is, the hair of the lion’s head : it is good
for voyages, and gain by merchandife, and for redemption of captives. The
twelfth is called Aharpha, or Azarpha; that is, the tail of Leo : it gives pro-
sperity to harveft and plantations, but hinders feamen, and is good for the
bettering of fervants, captives, and companions. The thirteenth is named
Alhaife; that is. Dog ftars, or the wings of Virgo ; it is prevalent for benevo-
lence, gain, voyages, harvefts, and freedom of captives. The fourteenth is
called Achureth,
or Arimet; by others, Azimeth,
or Athumech,
or Alcheymech
that is, the fpike of Virgo, or flying fpike : it caufes the love of married folks.;
•it cures the ftek, is profitable to failors, but hinders journies by land- ; and in
thefe the fecond quarter of the heaven is completed. The other feven follow :
the firft of which begins in the head of Libra, viz,, the fifteenth manfion, and
its name is Agrapha,
or Algrapha; that is, covered, or covered flying : it is
profitable for extracting treafures, for digging of pits ;
it aflifts divorce, dif-
cord, and deftruCtion of houfes and enemies, and hinders travellers. The
ftxteenth is called Azubene^ or Ahubene; that is, the horns of Scorpio : it hin-
ders journies and wedlock, harveft and merchandife ;
it prevails for redemption
of captives. The feventeenth is called Alehit; that is, the crown of Scorpio :
it betters a bad fortune, makes love durable, ftrengthens buildings, and helps
feamen. The eighteenth is called Alehas., or Altob; that is, the heart of
Scorpio : it caufes difcord, fedition, confpiracy againft princes and mighty
ones, and revenge from enemies ; but it frees captives,- and helps edifices.
The nineteenth is called Allat-ha,
or Adiala; by others, Hyeula,
or Axala;
that is, the tail of Scorpio * it helps in beiieging of cities, and taking of towns,
and in the driving of men from tlieir places, and for the deltruciion of feamen,
and perdition of captives. Thb twentieth is called Abnahayei;- that is, a beam :
* US -
it
156 TALISMANI C MAGIC. Part II.
it helps for the taming1
of wild beafts, for ftrengthening of prifons-, it deftroys
the wealth of focieties ;
it compels a man to come to a certain place. The
twenty-firft is called Abeda,
or Albeldach,
which is a defer! : it is good for
harveft, gain, buildings, and travellers, and caufes divorce •, and in this is
the third quarter of heaven completed. There remains the feven laft manfions,
completing1
the laft quarter of Heaven : the firft of which', being in order to
the twenty-feeond, beginning from the head of Capricorn, called Sadahachay
or Zodeboluch, or Zandeldena that is, a paftor : it promotes the flight of fer-
vants and captives, that they may efcape, and helps the curing of difeafes.
The twenty-third is- called Zabadola,
or Zobrach that is, fvvallowing : it is for
divorce, liberty of captives, and health to the ftck. The twenty-fourth is
called Sadabalh, or Clmdezoad that is, the ftar of fortune : it is prevalent for
the benevolence of married people, for the vidlory of foldiers ;
it hurts the ex<-
eeution of government, and prevents its being exercifed, The twenty-fifth is
called Sadalabra,
or Sadalachia that is, a butter.-fly, or a fpreading forth : it
favours befieging1
and revenge ;
it deftroys enemies, and caufes divorce ;
con-
firms prifons and buildings, haftens. meffengers ;
it conduces to fpells againft
copulation, and fo binds every member of man that it cannot perform its
duty. The twcnty-fixth is called Al[iharg,
or Phragal Mocaden that is, the
firft drawing : it caufes union, health of captives, deftroys buildings and pri-
fons. The tvventy-feventh is called Alchara Alyhalgalmoad> or the fecond
drawing : it increafes harveft, revenues, gain, and heals infirmities ;
but hin-
ders buildings, prolongs prifons, caufes danger to feamen, and helps to infer
mifchiefs on whom you fhall pleafe. The twenty-eighth and laft is called
Albotham, or Alchalcy that is, Fifces ; it increafes harveft and merchandife ;
it
fecures travellers through dangerous places ;
it makes for the joy of married
people ;
but it ftrengthens prifons, and caufes lofs of treafures. And in thefe
twenty-eight, manfions lie hid many fecrets of the wifdom of the antients, by
which they wrought wonders on all things which are under the circle of the
Moon ;
and they attributed to every manlion his refemblances, images, and
feals, and his prefident intelligences, and vrorked by the virtue of them after
different manners*
CHAP,
Chap. XXXIV. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 157
CHAP. XXXIV.
HOW SOME ARTIFICIAL THINGS (AS IMAGES, SEALS, AND SUCH LIKE) MAY OBTAIN SOME
VIRTUE FROM THE CELESTIAL BODIES.
SO great is the extent, power, and efficacy of the celeffial bodies, that not
only natural thing's, but alfo artificial, when they are rightly expofed to thofe
above, do prefently fuffer by that moft potent agent, and obtain a wonderful
life. The magicians affirm,, that not only by the mixture and application of
natural things, but alfo in images, feals, rings, glaffes, and fome other in-
ffruments, being opportunely framed under a certain conftellation, fome ce-
leftial illuftration may be taken, and fome wonderful thing may be received ;
for the beams of the celeffial bodies being animated, living, fenfual, and
bringing along with them admirable gifts, and a moft violent power, do,
even in a moment, and at the firff touch, imprint wonderful powers in the
images, though their matter be lefs capable. Yet they beftow more powerful
virtues on the images if they be framed not of any, but of a certain matter,
namely, whofe natural, and alfo fpecifical virtue is agreeable with the work,
and the figure of the image is like to the celeffial ;
for fuch an image, both in
regard to the matter naturally congruous to the operation and celeffial in-
fluence, and alfo for its figure being like to the heavenly one, is belt prepared
to receive the operations and powers of the celeffial bodies and figures, and
inftantly receives the heavenly gift into itfelf ;
though it conffantly worketh
on another thing, and other things yield obedience to it..
CHAP.
158 TALISMANIC MAGIC. Part II.
CHAP. XXXV.
OF THE IMAGES OF THE ZODIAC WHAT VIRTUES, THEY BEING ENGRAVEN, RECEIVE
FROM THE STARS.
BUT the celeftial images, according to whofe likenefs images of this kind
are framed, are many in the heavens ;
fome vifible and confpicuous, others
only imaginary, conceived and fet down by the Egyptians, Indians,
and
Chaldeans and their parts are fo ordered, that even the figures of fome of
them are diftinguifhed from others ;
for this reafon they place in the circle
of the Zodiac twelve general images, according to the number of the figns
of thefe, they conftituting Aries, Leo, and Sagittarius, for the fiery and oriental
triplicity, report that it is profitable againft fevers, palfy, dropfy, gout, and
all cold and phlegmatic infirmities ;
and that it makes him who carries it to
be acceptable, eloquent, ingenious, and honourable ; becaufe they are the
houfes of Mars, Sol, and Jupiter. They made, alfo, the image of a lion
againft melancholy phantafi.es, dropfy, plague, and fevers, and to expel
difeafes, at the hour of the Sun, the firft degree of the fign Leo afeending,
which is the face and decanate of Jupiter ;
but againft the ftone, and difeafes
of the reins, and againft hurts of beafts, they made the fame image when Sol,
in the heart of the lion, obtained the midft of heaven. And again, becaufe
Gemini, Libra, and Aquarius, do conftitute the aerial and occidental triplicity,
and are the houfes of Mercury, Venus, and Saturn, they are faid to put to
flight difeafes, to conduce to friendfhip and concord, to prevail againft melan-
choly, and to caufe health •, and they report that Aquarius efpecially frees
from the quartan. Alfo, that Cancer, Scorpio, and Pifces, becaufe they con-
ftitute the watery and northern triplicity, do prevail againft hot and dry fevers,
alfo againft the heftic, and all choleric paffions ;
but Scorpio, becaufe among
the members it refpefts the privy parts, doth provoke to luft ;
but thefe did
frame it for this purpofe, his third face afeending, which belongs to Venus ;
and they made the fame, againft ferpents and fcorpions, poifons and evil fpi-
rits, his fecond face afeending, which is the face of the Sun, and decanate ol
Jupiter
Csomantic C%aracter*A
o
o
o
o
ffa 8 Populus
# *
# #
# %
Planets-
Ami/sio
Puella
Forbuna Pfa/oi Fortuezo, Ilire or
5HSEA
Jgwisitio
Lcetitia
* e $
Career* Trislilia
CaRnPPraegorus-
Cauda Fragones
I¥Tm
iAA AAA
#
*
*
^ *
** *
®
4
# * *
#
# Si
*
%
x|^ ^
# Q
#
#
#
t #
JFnpTwetl treP.Grp/fich
Cub. by Zacfanplc n Allen & Co.
Chap. XXXVI, TALISMANIC MAGIC. "
159
Jupiter ;
and they report that it maketh him who carries it wife, of a good
colour ,
and they fay that the image of Cancer is moft efficacious againft fer-
pents and poifon, when Sol and Luna are in conjunction in it, and afcend in
the firft and third face ;
for this is the face of Venus, and the decanate of
Luna ;
but the fecond face of Luna the decanate of Jupiter. They report, alfo,
that ferpents are tormented when the Sun is in Cancer ; alfo, that Taurus,
Virgo, and Capricorn, beeaufe they confiitute the earthly and fouthern tripli-
city, do cure hot infirmities, and prevail againft the fynocal fever ;
it makes
thofe who carry it grateful, acceptable, eloquent, devout, and religious ;
beeaufe
they are the houfes of Venus, Mars, and Saturn. Capricorn alfo is reported to keep
men in fafety, and alfo places in fecurity, beeaufe it is the exaltation of Mars.
CHAP. XXXVL
OF THE IMAGES OF SATURN
BUT now what images they did attribute to the planets. Although of
thefe tilings very large volumes have been written by the antient wife men, fo
that there is no need to declare them here, notwithftanding I will recite a
few of them ;
for they made, from the operations of Saturn, Saturn afeending
in a flone, which is called the load-ftone, the image of a man, having the
countenance of a hart, and camel’s feet, and fitting upon a chair or elfe a dragon,
holding in his right hand a feythe, in his left a dart, which image they hoped,
would be profitable for prolongation of life ;
for Albumafar, in his book
Sadary proves that Saturn conduces to the prolongation of life ;
where, alfo,
he fays that certain regions of India being fubjedt to Saturn, there men. are
of a very long life, and die not unlefs by extreme old age. They made,
alfo, an image of Saturn, for length of days, in a fapphire, at the hour of
£aturn, Saturn afeending or fortunately conhituted ;
whofe figure was an old
man fitting upon a high chair, having his hands lifted up above his head,
and
TALISMANIC MAGIC.
160 Part II.
and in them holding- a fifh or fickle, and under his feet a bunch of grapes,
his head covered with a black or dulky coloured cloth, and all his garments
black or dark. They alfo make this fame image againft the.hone, and difeafes
of the kidnies, viz. in the hour of Saturn, Saturn afeending with the third
face of Aquarius. They made alfo, from the operations of Saturn, an image
for the increafing of power, Saturn afeending in Capricorn ;
the form of which
was an old mail leaning on a Itaff, having in his hand a crooked fickle, and
clothed in black. They alfo made an image of melted copper, Saturn afeend-
ing in his rifing, viz. in the firft degree of Aries, or the firlt degree of Capri-
corn ;
which image they affirm to fpeak with a man’s voice. They made alfo,
from the operations of Saturn, and alfo Mercury, an image of cafl metal, like
a beautiful man, which, they faid, would foretel things to come ;
and made
it on the day of Mercury, on the third hour of Saturn, the fign of Gemini
afeending, being the houfe of Mercury, fignifying prophets ;
Saturn and
Mercury being in conjunction in Aquarius, in the ninth houfe of heaven, which
is alfo called God. Moreover, let Saturn have a trine afpeCt on the afeendant,
and the Moon in like manner, and the Sun have an afpeCt on the place of
conjunction ;
Venus, obtaining fome angle, may be powerful and occidental ;
let Mars be combuft by the Sun, but let it not have an afpeCt on Saturn and
Mercury ;
for they faid that the fplendour of the powers of thefe liars was
diffufed upon this image, and it did fpeak with men, and declare thofe things
which are profitable for them.
CHAP. XXXVII.
OF THE IMAGES OF JUPITER.
FROM the operations of Jupiter they made, for prolongation of life, an
image in the hour of Jupiter, Jupiter being in his exaltation fortunately
afeending, in a clear and white Hone ;
whofe figure was a man crowned,
clothed
Chap. XXXVIII. TALISMAN IC MAGIC. 16
clothed with garments of a faffron colour, riding upon an eagle or dragon,
having in his right hand a dart, about, as it were, to ftrike it into the head of
the fame eagle 6r dragon. They made, alfo, another image of Jupiter, at
the fame convenient feafon, in a white and clear ftone, efpecially in cryftal ;
and it was a naked man crowned, having both his hands joined together and
lifted up, as it were, deprecating fomething fitting in a four-footed chair,
which is carried by four winged boys ;
and they affirm that this image in-
creafes felicity, riches, honours, and confers benevolence and profperity, and
frees from enemies. They made, alfo, another image of Jupiter, for a reli-
gious and glorious life, and advancement of fortune ; whofe figure was a man,
having the head of a lion or a ram, and eagle’s feet, and clothed in faffron
coloured clothes.
CHAP. XXXVIII.
OF THE IMAGES OF MARS.
FROM the operations of Mars, they made an image in the hour of Mars
(Mars afcending in the fecond face of Aries), in a martial ftone, efpecially in
a diamond ;
the form of which was a man armed, riding upon a lion, having
in his right hand a naked fword ere6t, carrying in his left hand the head of
a man. They report that an image of this kind renders a man powerful in good
and evil, fo that he fhall be feared by all ;
and whoever carries it, they give
him the power of enchantment, fo that he fhall terrify men by his looks when
he is angry, and ftupify them. They made another image of Mars, for ob-
taining boldnefs, courage, and good fortune, in wars and contentions ; the
form of which was a foldier, armed and crowned, girt with a fword, carrying
in his right hand a long lance ; and they made this at the hour of Mars, the
firft face of Scorpio afcending with it.
Book I. X CHAP.
162 TALISMANIC MAGIC. Part II.
CHAP. XXXIX.
OF THE IMAGES OF THE SUN,
FROM the operations of the Sun they made an image at the hour of the
Sun, the firfl face of Leo afcending with the Sun ;
the form of which was a
king crowned, fitting in a chair, having a raven in his bofom, and under his
feet a globe : he is clothed in faffron coloured clothes. They fay that this image
renders men invincible and honourable, and helps to bring their bufinefs to a
good end, and to drive away vain dreams.; alfo to be prevalent againfi fevers,
and the plague ;
and they made it in a balanite Rone, or a ruby, at the hour
of the Sun, when he, in his exaltation, fortunately afcends. They made an-
other image of the Sun in a diamond, at the hour of the Sun afcending in
his exaltation ;
the figure of which was a woman crowned, with the gefture of
one, dancing and laughing, Handing in a chariot drawn by four horfes,
having in her right hand a looking-glafs or buckler, in the left a Raff, leaning
on her breaR, carrying a flame of fire on her head. They fay that this image
renders a man fortunate, and rich, and beloved of all ; and they made this
image on a cornelian Rone, at the hour of the Sun afcending in the firR face
of Leo, againfl lunatic paflions, which proceed from the combuRion of the
Moon.
I '
J _U . i Ui •U'VO i y'i fv
CHAP. XL.
OF THE IMAGES OF VENUS.
FROM the operations of Venus they made an image, which was available
for favour and benevolence, at the very hour it afcended into Pifces ; the form
of which was the image of a woman, having the head of a bird, the feet of an
eagle, and holding a dart in her hand. They made another image of Venus,
to
/
Chap. XLI. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 163
to obtain the love of women, in the lapis lazuli, at the hour of Venus, Venus
afcending in Taurus the figure of which was a naked maid, with her hair
fpread abroad, having a looking-glafs in her hand, and a chain tied about her
neck—-and near her a handfome young man, holding her with his left hand
by the chain, but with his right hand doing up her hair, and both looking
lovingly on one another—and about them is a little winged boy, holding a
fword or dart. They made another image of Venus, the firft face of Taurus,
Libra,
or Pifces,
afcending with Venus ;
the figure of which was a little maid,
with her hair fpread abroad, clothed in long and white garments, holding a
laurel apple, or flowers, in her right hand, in her left a comb : it is faid to
make men pleafant, jocund, ftrong, cheerful, and to give beauty.
CHAP. XLI.
OF THE IMAGES OF MERCURY.
i
FROM the operations of Mercury they made an image of Mercury,
Mercury afcending in Gemini ;
the form of which was a handfome young
man, bearded, having in his left hand a rod, round which a ferpent was en-
twined—in the right he carried a dart ;
having his feet winged. They fay that
this image confers knowledge, eloquence, diligence in merchandife, and gain ;
moreover, to obtain peace and concord, and cure fevers. They made another
image of Mercury, afcending in Virgo, for good will, wit, and memory ;
the form of which was a man fitting upon a chair, or riding on a peacock,
having eagle’s feet, and on his head a creft, and in his left hand holding a
cock of fire.
X 2 CHAP.
1 64, TALISMANIC MAGIC* Part II.
CHAP. XLII.
OF THE IMAGES OF THE MOON,
FROM the operations of the Moon they made an image for travellers againfl
wearinefs, at the hour of the Moon, the Moon afcending in its exaltation ; the
figure of which was a man leaning on a ftaff, having a bird on his head, and
a flouriffiing tree before him. They made another image of the Moon for the
increafe of the fruits of the earth, and againft poifons, and infirmities of
children, at the hour of the Moon, it afcending in the firil luce of Cancer ;
the figure of which was a woman cornuted, riding on a bull, or a dragon with
feven heads, or a crab, and Ihe hath in her right hand a dart, in her left a
looking glafs, clothed with white or green, and having on her head two fer-
pents with horns twined together, and to each arm a ferpent twined about, and
to each foot one in like manner. And thus much fpoken concerning the figures
of the planets, may fuffice.
CHAP. XLIII.
OF THE IMAGES OF THE HEAD AND TAIL OF THE DRAGON OF THE MOON-
THEY made, alfo, the image of the head and tail of the Dragon of the
Moon, namely, between an ferial and fiery circle, the likenefs of a ferpent,
with the head of a hawk, tied about them after the manner of the great letter
Theta ;
they made it when J upiter, with the head, obtained the mid heaven ;
which image they affirm to avail much for the fuecefs of petitions, and would
fignify by this image a good and fortunate genius, which they would repre-
fent by this image of the ferpent ;
for the Egyptians and Phoenicians do extol
this creature above all others, and fay it is a divine creature, and hath a di-
vine nature ;
for in this is a more acute fpirit, and a greater fire than in any
other, which thing is manifelt both by his fwift motion without feet, hands,
or
Chap. XLIV. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 165
or any other inftruments ;
and alfo that it often renews its age with his fkin,
and becomes young again ;
but they made the image of the tail like as when
the Moon was eclipfed in the tail, or ill affe6led by Saturn or Mars, and they
made it to introduce anguifh, infirmity, and misfortune : we call it an evil
genius.
THE TALISMAN OF THE DRAGON’s HEAD.
CHAP. XLIV.
OF THE IMAGES OF THE MANSIONS OF THE MOON.
THEY made, alfo, images for every manfion of the Moon as follows :
In the firft, for the definition of fome one, they made, in an iron ring,
the image of a black man, in a garment of hair, and girdled round, cafting a
fmall lance with his right hand : they fealed this in black wax, and perfumed
it with liquid florax, and wifhed fome evil to come.
In the fecond, againfl the wrath of the prince, and for reconciliation with
him, they fealed, in white wax and maftich, the image of a king crowned,
and perfumed it with lignum aloes..
In the third, they made an image in a fi-lver ring, whole table was fquare ;
the figure of which was a woman,, well clothed, fitting in a chair, her right
hand being lifted up on her head they fealed it, and perfumed it with miifk,
camphire, and calamus aromaticus. They affirmed that this gives happy for-
tune, and every good thing.
In the fourth, for revenge, feparation, enmity, and ill-will, they fealed, in
red wax, the image of a foldier fitting on a horfe, holding a ferpent in his
right hand : they perfumed it with red myrrh and florax.
In
TALISMANIC MAGIC.
166 Part II.
In the fifth, for the favour of kings and officers, and good entertainment,
they fealed, in filver, the head of a man, and perfumed it with red fanders.
In the fixth, to procure love between two, they fealed, in white wax, two
images embracing one another, and perfumed them with lignum aloes and
amber.
In the feventh, to obtain every good thing, they fealed, in filver, the image
of a man, well clothed, holding up his hands to Heaven, as it were, praying
and fupplicating, and perfumed it with good odours.
In the eighth, for viHory in war, they made a feal in tin, being an image
of an eagle, having the face of a man, and perfumed it with brimftone.
In the ninth, to caufe infirmities, they made a feal of lead, being the
image of a 'man wanting his privy parts, covering his eyes with his hands ;
and they perfumed it w ith rofm of the pine.
In the tenth, to facilitate child bearing, and to cure the fick, they made a
feal of gold, being the head of a lion, and perfumed it with amber.
In the eleventh, for fear, reverence, and w'orfhip, they made a feal of a plate
of gold, being the image of a man riding on a lion, holding the ear thereof
in his left hand, and in his right holding forth a bracelet of gold ;
and they
perfumed it with good odours and faffron.
In the twelfth, for the reparation of lovers, they made a feal of black lead,
being the image of a dragon fighting wnth a man ;
and they perfumed it with
the hairs of a lion, and affafcetida.
In the thirteenth, for the agreement of married people, and for diffolving of
all the charms againfl copulation, they made a feal of the images of both (of the
man in red wax, and the woman in white), and caufed them to embrace one
another ;
perfuming it with lignum aloes and amber.
In the fourteenth, for divorce and feparation of the man from the woman,
they made a feal of red copper, being the image of a dog biting his tail ;
and
they perfumed it with the hair of a black dog and a black cat.
In the fifteenth, to obtain friendffiip and good will, they made the image
of a man fitting, and inditing letters, and perfumed it with frankincenfe and
nutmegs.
/ In
Chap. XLIV. TALISMANTC MAGIC. 167
In the fixteenth, for gaining much merchandiflng, they made a feal of
filver, being the image of a man, fitting on a chair, holding a balance in his
hand ;
and they perfumed it with well fmelling fpices.
In the feventeenth, again!! thieves and robbers, they fealed with an iron
feal the image of an ape, and perfumed it with the hair of an ape.
In the eighteenth, again!! fevers and pains of the belly, they made a feal
of copper, being the image of a fnake with his tail above his head ;
and
they perfumed it with hartlhorn ;
and faid this fame feal to put to flight fer-
pents, and all venomous creatures, frorh the place where it is buried.
In the nineteenth, for facilitating birth, and provoking the menltrues, they
made a feal of copper, being the image of a woman holding her hands upon
her face •, and they perfumed it with liquid ftorax.
In the twentieth, for hunting, they made a feal of tin, being the image of
Sagittary, half a man and half a horfe j
and they perfumed it with the head
of a wolf.
In the twenty-fir!!, for the deftru6!ion of fome body, they made the image
of a man, with a double countenance before and behind ;
and they perfumed
it with brimltone and jet, and put it in a box of brafs, and with it brimftone
and jet, and the hair of him whom they would hurt.
In the twenty-fecond, for the fecurity of runaways, they made a feal of
iron, being the image of a man, with wings on his feet, bearing a helmet on
his head ;
and they perfumed it with argent vive.
In the twenty-third, for deftru6!ion and wafting, they made a feal of iron,
being the image of a cat, having a dog’s head ; and they perfumed it with
dog’s hair taken from the head, and buried it in the place where they intended
the hurt.
In the twenty-fourth, for multiplying herds of cattle, they took the horn
of a ram, bull, or goat, or of that fort of cattle they would increafe, and
fealed in it, burning, with an iron feal, the image of a woman giving fuck to
her fon ; and they hanged it on the neck of that cattle who was the leader of
4he flock, or they fealed it in his horn.
In
168 TALISMANIC MAGIC. Part II.
In the twenty-fifth, for the prefervation of trees and harveft, they fealed, in
the wood of a fig- tree, the imag-e of a man planting- ;
and they perfumed it
with the flowers of the fig- tree, and hung it on the tree.
In the twenty-fixth, for love and favour, they fealed, in white wax and
maftich, the figure of a woman walhing and combing her hair ;
and they per-
fumed it with good odours.
In the twenty-feventh, to deftroy fountains, pits, medicinal waters, and
baths, they made, of red earth, the image of a man winged, holding in his
hand an empty veffel, and perforated ;
and the image being burnt, they put in
the veffel affafcetida and liquid ftorax, and they buried it in the pond or
fountain which they would deftroy.
In the twenty-eighth, for getting fifh together, they made a feal of copper,
bemg the image of a fifh ;
and they perfumed it with the Ikin of a fea fifh,
and call it into the water where they wr
ould have the fifh gathered.
Moreover, together with the aforefaid images, they wrote down alfo the
names ol the fpirits, and their chara6ters, and invocated and prayed for thofe
things which they pretended to obtain.
CHAP. XLV.
THAT HUMAN IMPRECATIONS NATURALLY IMPRESS THEIR POWERS UPON EXTERNAL
THINGS AND HOW MAN’S MIND, THROUGH A DEGREE OF DEPENDENCIES, ASCENDS INTO
THE INTELLIGIBLE WORLD, AND BECOMES LIKE TO THE MORE SUBLIME SPIRITS AND
INTELLIGENCES.
THE celeftial fouls fend forth their virtues to the celeftial bodies, which
tranfmit them to this fenfible world ; for the virtues of the terrene orb pro-
ceed from no other caufe than celeftial. Hence the magician, that will work
by them, ufes a cunning invocation of the fuperiors, with myfterious words
and a certain kind of ingenious fpeech, drawing the one to the other ;
yet by
a natural force, through a certain mutual agreement between them, whereby
things
Chap'. XLV. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 169
thing’s follow of their own accord, or fometimes are drawn unwillingly.
Hence fays Ariftotle, in his fixth book of his Myftical Philofophy, “ that when
any one, by binding1
or bewitching, calls upon the Sun or other liars, pray-
ing them to aflift the work defired, the Sun and other liars do not hear his
words ; but are moved, after a certain manner, by a certain conjun6lion and
mutual feries, whereby the parts of the world are mutually fubordinate the one
to the other, and have a mutual confent, by reafon of their great union : as in
a man’s body, one member is moved by perceiving the motion of another ;
and in a harp, one firing is moved by the motion, of another. So when miy
one moves any part of the world, other parts are moved by the perceiving of
that motion.”—The knowledge, therefore, of the dependency of things following
one the other, is the foundation of all wonderful operation, which is neceffa-
rily required to the exercifing the power of attra6ling fuperior virtues. Now
the words of men are certain natural things ;
and becaufe the parts of the
world mutually draw one the other *, therefore a magician invocating by words,
works by powers fitted to Nature, by leading fome by the love of one to the
other ;
or drawing others, by reafon of the one following after the other ;
or
by repelling, by reafon of the enmity of one to the other, from the contra-
riety and difference of things, and multitude of virtues ;
which, although they
are contrary and different, yet perfe6l one part. Sometimes, alfo, he compels
things by way of authority, by the celeftial virtue, becaufe he is not a ftranger
to the heavens. A man, therefore, if he receives the imprefiion of a ligation,
or fafcination, doth not receive it according to the rational foul, but fenfual ;
and if he buffers in any part, he fuffers according to the animal part ; for they
cannot draw a knowing and intelligent man by reafon, but by receiving that
imprefiion and force by fenfe ;
inafmuch as the animal fpirit of man ‘is, by
the influence of the celeftials, and co-operation of the things of the world,
affe6led beyond his former and natural difpofition. As the fon moves the
father to labour, although unwilling, to keep and maintain him, although
he be wearied ;
and the defire to rule, is moved by anger and other labours to
get the dominion and the indigency of nature, and fear of poverty, moves a
man to defire riches ;
and the ornaments and beauty of women, is an incite-
Book I. Y ment
TALISMANIC MAGIC.
170 Part II.
ment to concupifcence ;
and the harmony of a wife mufician moves his hearers
with various paffions, whereof fome do voluntary follow the confonancy of art,
others conform themfelves by gefture, although unwilling, becaufe their fenfe
is captivated, their reafon not being intent to thefe things. Hence they fall
into errors, who think thofe things to be above nature, or contrary to nature
which indeed are by nature, and according to nature. We mull know, there-
fore, that evey fuperior moves its next inferior, in its degree and order, not
only in bodies, but alfo in fpirits : fo the univerfal foul moves the particular
foul ;
the rational aCts upon the fenfual, and that upon the vegetable ; and
every part of the world aCts upon another, and every part is apt to be moved
by another. And every part of this inferior world fuffers from the heavens,
according to their nature and aptitude, as one part of the animal body fuf-
fers for another. And the fuperior intellectual world moves all things below'
itfelf ;
and, after a manner, contains all the fame beings, from the firft to the
lall, which are in the inferior world., Celeftial bodies, therefore, move the
bodies of the elementary world, compounded, generable, fenfible (from the
circumference to the center), by fuperior, perpetual, and fpiritual offences, de-
pending on the primary intellect, which is the aCting intellect ;
but upon the
virtue put in by the word of God ;
which word the wife Chaldeans of Babylon
call, the Caufe of Caufes ;
becaufe from it are produced all beings : the aCt-
ing intellect, which is the fecond, from it depends ;
and that by reafon of the
union of this word with the Firft Author, from whom all things being are truly
produced : the word, therefore, is the image of God—the aCting intellect, the
image of the word—the foul is the image of this intellect—and our word is
the image of the foul, by which it aCts upon natural things naturally, becaufe
nature is the work thereof. And every one of thofe perfeCts his fubfequent : as
a father his fon ;
and none of the latter exifts without the former ;
foMhey are
depending among themfelves by a kind of ordinate dependency—fo that when
the latter is corrupted, it is returned into that which was next before it, until
it come to the heavens ;
then to the univerfal foul ;
and, laftly, into the aCting
intellect, by which all other creatures exift ;
and itfelf exifts in the principal
author, which is the creating word of God, to which, at length, all things are
returned.
Chap. XLV. TALISMANIC MAGIC. 171
returned. Our foul, therefore, if it will work any wonderful thing1
in thefe
inferiors, mufi have refpeCl to their beginning, that it may be ftrengthened
and iiiuflrated by that, and receive power of acting through each degree, from
the very firfl Author. Therefore we mull be more diligent in contemplating
the fouls of the liars—then their bodies, and the fuper-celeltial and intellectual
world—then the celeltial, corporeal, becaufe that is more noble ; although,
alfo, this be excellent, and the way to that, and without which medium the
influence of the fuperior cannot be attained to. As for example : the Sun is
the king of liars, moll full of light ; but receives it from the intelligible world,
above all other liars, becaufe the foul thereof is more capable of intelligible
fplendour. Wherefore he that defires to attraCl the influence of the Sun, mull
contemplate upon the Sun ;
not only by the fpeculation of the exterior light, but
alfo of the interior. And no man can do this, unlefs he return to the foul of the
Sun, and become like to it, and comprehend the intelligible light thereof with
an intelleClual fight, as the fenfible light with the corporeal eye ;
for this man
lhall be filled with the light thereof, and the light whereof, which is an under
type imprelfed by the fupernal orb, it receives into itfelf ;
with the illullration
whereof his intelled being endowed, and truly like to it, and being affifted by
it, lhall at length attain to that fupreme brightnefs, and to all forms that par-
take thereof ;
and when he hath received the light of the fupreme degree, then
his foul lhall come to perfection, and be made like to fpirits of the Sun, and
lhall attain to the virtues and illullrations of the fupernatural virtue, and lhall
enjoy the power of them, if he has obtained faith in the Firfl Author.. In the
full place, therefore, we mull implore affillance from the Firfl Author ;
and
praying, not only with mouth, but a religious gellure and fupplicant foul,
alfo abundantly, inceifantly, and fincerely, that he would enlighten our mind,
and remove darknefs, growing upon our fouls by reafon of our bodies.
Y2 GHAP.
172 TALISMANIC MAGIC. Part II.
CHAP. XLVI.
TIIE CONCLUSION OF THE CONSTELLATORY PRACTICE, OR TALISMANIC MAGIC; IN WHICH
IS INCLUDED THE KEY OF ALL THAT HAS BEEN WRITTEN UPON THIS SUBJECT; SHEW-
ING THE PRACTICE OF IMAGES, &C. BY WAY OF EXAMPLE, AND LIKEWISE THE NECES-
SARY OBSERVATIONS OF THE CELESTIALS, TOWARDS TIIE PERFECTION OF TALISMAN ICAL
OPERATIONS.
WE will now fhew thee the obfervations of celeflial bodies, which are re-
quired for the pradlice of thefe thing's, which are briefly as follow :
To make any one fortunate, wr
e make an imag-e at that time in which the
figniftcaior of life ,
ihe giver of life ,
or Hylech,
the Jigns and planeisy
are fortunate : let the afcendant and mid-heaven, and the lords thereof be for-
tunate ;
and alfo the place of the Sun and Moon ;
part of fortune and lord of
conjunction or prevention, made before their nativity, by deprefling- the ma-
lignant planets, i. e. taking the times when they are deprefled. But if we
would make an image to procure mifery, we mutt do contrary to this ; and
thofe which we before placed fortunate, we mult now make unfortunate, by
taking the malignant ftars when they rule. And the fame means we muft take
to make any place, region, city, or houfe unfortunate. But if you would
make any one unfortunate who hath injured you, let there be an image made
under the afcenfion of that man whom thou wouldft make unfortunate ;
and
thou flialt take, when unfortunate, the lord of the houfe of his life, the lord of
the afcendant and the Moon, the lord of the houfe of the Moon, the lord of the
houfe of the lord afcending, and the tenth houfe and the lord thereof. Now,
for the building, fuccefs, or fitting of any place, place fortunes in the afcendant
thereof ;
and in the firfl and tenth, and fecond and eighth houfe, thou flialt
make the lord of the afcendant, and the lord of the houfe of the Moon, for-
tunate. But to chafe away certain animals (from any place) that are noxious
to thee, that they may not generate or abide there, make an image under the
afcenfion of that animal which thou wouldft chafe away or deftroy, and after
the likenefs thereof ;
for inftance, now, fuppofe thou wouldft with to chafe away
fcorpions from any place ; let an image of a fcorpion be made, the fign
Scorpio
Chap. XLVI. TALISMANIC MAGIC. '173
Scorpio afcending with the Moon ;
then thou flialt make unfortunate the
afcendant, and the lord thereof, and the lord of the houfe of Mars; and thou
thalt make unfortunate the lord of the afcendant in the eighth houfe ; and let
them be joined with an afpetft malignant, as oppofite or fquare, and write upon
the image the name of the afcendant, and of the lord thereof, and the Moon,
the lord of the day and hour ;
and let there be a pit made in the middle of
the place from which thou wouldtt drive them, and put into it fome earth taken
out of the four corners of the fame place, then bury the image there, with
the head downwards, faying—“ This is the burying of the Scorpions, that
they may be forced to leave, and come no more into this place.”—And fo do
by the reft.
Now for gain, make an image under the afcendant of that man to whom
thou wouldft appoint the gain •, and thou thalt make the lord of the fecond
houfe, which is the houfe of fubftance, to be joined with the lord of the
afcendant, in a trine or fextile afpedt, and let there be a reception amongft
them ;
thou thalt make fortunate the eleventh, and the lord thereof, and the
eighth ;
and, if thou canft, put part of fortune in the afcendant or fecond ;
and let the image be buried in that place, or from that place, to which thou
wouldft appoint the gain or fortune. Likewife, for agreement or love, let be
made an image in the day of Jupiter, under the afcendant of the nativity of
him whom you would wifh to be beloved ; make fortunate the afcendant and
the tenth, and hide the evil from the afcendant ;
and you muft have the lords
of the tenth, and planets of the eleventh, fortunate, joined to the lord of the
afcendant, from the trine or fextile, with reception ;
then proceed to make an-
other image, for him Whom thou wouldft ftir up to love ; whether it be a
friend, or female, or brother, or relation, or companion of him whom thou
wouldft have favoured or beloved, if fo, make an image under the afcenfion of
the eleventh houfe from the afcendant of the firft image ;
but if the party be a
wife, or a hufband, let it be made under the afcenfion of the feventh ; if a bro-
ther, filter, or coufin, under the afcenfion of the third houfe ;
if a mother, of
the tenth, and fo on now let the fignificator of the afcendant of the fecond
image be joined to the. fignificator of the afcendant of the firft, and let there
^ be
17i TALISMANIC MAGIC. Part II.
be between them a reception, and let the reft be fortunate, as in the firft
image ;
afterwards join both the images together in a mutual embrace, or
put the face of the fecond to the back of the firft, and let them be wrapped
up in filk, and caft away or fpoiled.
Alfo, for the fuccefs of petitions, and obtaining of a thing denied, or taken,
cr poffeffed by another, make an image under the afcendant of him who peti-
tions for the thing •, and caufe the lord of the fecond houfe to be joined with
the lord of the afcendant, from a trine or Textile afpeft, and let there be a re-
ception betwixt them ;
and, if it can be fo, let the lord of the fecond be in
the obeying figns, and the lord of afcendant in the ruling : make fortunate-
the afcendant and the lord thereof ;
and beware that the lord of the afcendant
be not retrograde, or combuft, or cadent, or in the houfe of oppofition, i. e. in
the feventh from his own houfe -, let him not be hindered by the malignant
planets, but let him be ftrong and in an angle ;
thou fhalt make fortunate the
afcendant, and the lord of the fecond, and the Moon : and make another
image for him that is petitioned to, and begin it under the afcendant belonging
to him : as if he is a king, or prince, &c. begin it under the afcendant of the
tenth houfe from the afcendant of the firft image ;
if a father, under the fourth ;
if a fon, under the fifth, and fo of the like ;
then put the fignificator of the
fecond image, joined with the lord of the afcendant of the firft image from a
trine or Textile, and let him receive it ;
and put them both ftrong and for-
tunate, without any hinderance ;
make all evil fall from, them ;
thou fhalt
make fortunate the tenth and the fourth, if thou canft, or any of them ; and
when the fecond image fhall be perfect, join it with the firft, face to face,
and wrap them in clean linen, and bury them in the middle of his houfe who
is the petitioner, under a fortunate fignificator, the fortune beingJirong ; and
let the face of the firft image be towards the north, or rather towards that place
where the thing petitioned for doth remain ;
or, if it happens that the petitioner
goes forward to obtain the thing defired or petitioned for, let him carry the
faid images with him. Thus we have given, in a few examples, the key of
all Talifmanical operations whatfoever, by which wonderful effects may be
wrought either by images, by rings, by glalfes, by feals, by tables, or any
other
Mat/ick'Seals. crTalismans
Mate. Jt9 P
Pub. by LcLc/cincrton ^Allen & Co
Chap. XLVI. TALISMANIC MAGIC, 175
other magical inftruments whatfoever ;
but as thefe have their chief' grounds
in the true knowledge of the effedts of the planets, and the rifing of the con-
ftellations, we recommend an earned; attention to that part of Aftrology * which
teaches of the power, influences, and effects of the celeflial bodies amongft
themfelves generally ;
likewife, we would recommend the artift to be expert
in the afpedts, motions, declinations, riflings, &c. &c. of the feven planets, and
perfectly to underftand their natures, either mixed or Ample ; alfo, to be ready
and correct in the erecting of a figure, at any time, to fliew the true poflition
of the heavens ;
there being fo great a fympathy between the celeflials and
ourfelves ; and to obflerve all the other rules which we have plentifully recited :
and, without doubt, the induflrious fludent fhall receive the fatisfadtion of
bringing his operations and experiments to effedt that which he ardently defires.
With which, wilhing all fuccefls to the contemplator of the creature and the
Creator, we will here clofe up this Second Part of pur Work, and the conclu-
flion of our Book of Talifmanical Magic.
* Thofe who would be perfect in the neceflary knowledge of Aftrology, ought to fludy from Coley, his
book, called Clavis Aftrologias Elimata, or his Key new filed—Salmon’s Soul of Aftrology—Lilley’s, or
Partridge’s, Vade Mecum—or Middleton’s Aftrology.
THE END OF THE FIRST BOOS.
Knight and Compton, Typ.* Middle Street,
Cloth Fair,
\
If
THE
OR, .
CELESTIAL INTELLIGENCER.
BOOK II. PART I.
CONTAINING
MAGNETISM,
AND
CABALISTICAL MAGIC;
DISCOVERING
THE SECRET MYSTERIES
OF
CELESTIAL MAGIC.
With the Art of calculating by the divine Names of God ; (hewing the Rule, Order, and Government of
ANGELS, INTELLIGENCES, AND BLESSED SPIRITS, HOLY TABLES AND
SEALS, TABLES OF THE CABALA, &c.
Likewife treating of Ceremonial Magic, Invocation of Spirits, Confecrations, Circles, &c.
Alfo of Dreams, Phophecy, Miracles, &c.
Br FRANCIS BARRETT,
STUDENT OF CHEMISTRY, NATURAL AND OCCULT PHILOSOPHY, THE CABALA, &C.
TO WHICH IS ADDED,
A Tranflation of the Works of Tritemius of Spanheim, viz.
His Book of Secret Things, and of Spirits,
Book II, B
\V, Btoekaier, Printer, Toek’s Court, Chancery Lane,
CONTAINING
THE MAGUS,
MAGNETISM,
AND
CABALISTICAL MAGIC.
TO WHICH 18 ADDED
A TREATISE
O N
PROPHECY, PROPHETIC DREAMS AND INSPIRATION.
BOOK II. PART I.
MAGNETISM.
In our following Treatife of Magnetifm we have collected and arranged in
order fome valuable and fecret things out of the writings of that molt
learned chemift and philofopher Paracelfus, who was the ornament of Ger-
many and the age he lived in. Likewife we have extracted the very marrow
of the fcience of Magnetifm out of the copious and elaborate works of that
moil celebrated philofopher (by fire) Van Helmont, who, together with Pa-
racelfus, induftrioufly promulgated all kinds of magnetic and fympathetic
cures, which, through the drowfinefs, ignorance, unbelief, and obftinacy of
B 2 \
*
* the
i
4 MAGNETISM. Book II.
the prefent age, have been fo much and fo totally neglected and condemned j
yet, however impudent in their adertions, and bigotted to their own falfe
opinions, fome of our modern philofophers may be, yet we have feen two or
three individuals, who, by dint of perfeverance, have proved the truth and
poffibility of Magnetifm, by repeated and public experiments. Indeed the
ingenious invention of the Magnetic TraCtors prove at once that fcience fhould
never be impeded by public flander or mifreprefentation of faCts that have
proved to be of general utility. And we do not doubt but that we £hall
be able to fhew, by the theory and practice delivered in the fequel, that many
excellent cures may be performed by a due confideration and attentive obfer-
vance of the principles upon which fympathy, antipathy, magnetic at-
traction, &c. are founded ; and which will be fully illuftrated in the fol-
lowing compendium :
We fhall haften to explain the firft principles of Magnetifm, by examin-
ing the magnetic or attractive power.
CHAP. I.
* THE MAGNETIC, OR ATTRACTIVE TOWER OR FACULTY.'
AS concerning an aCtion locally at a diftance, wines do fugged: a demon-
ftration unto us : for, every kind of wine, although it be bred out of
co-bordering provinces, and likewife more timely bloffoming elfewhere, yet
it is troubled while our country vine flowereth ;
neither doth fuch a dif-
turbance ceafe as long as the flower fhall not fall off from our vine ; which
thing furely happens, either from a common motive-caufe of the vine and
wine, or from a particular difpofition of the vine, the which indeed troubles
the wine, and doth fhake it up and down with a confufed temped: : or like-
wife, becaufe the wine itfelf doth thus trouble itfelf of its own free accord,
* Van Helmont.
by
Part I. MAGNETISM, 5
by reafon of the flowers of the vine : of both the which latter, if there be a
fore-touched conformity, confent, co-grieving, or congratulation ; at leaf,
that cannot but be done by an adtion at a dillance : to wit, if the wine be
troubled in a cellar under ground, whereunto no vine perhaps is near for fome
miles, neither is there any difcourfe of the air under the earth, with the
flower of the abfent vine ; but, if they will accufe a common caufe for fuch
an effedl, they mull either run back to the liars, which cannot be controuled
by our pleafures and liberties of boldnefs ; or, I fay, we return to a confef-
lion of an addon at a dillance : to wit, that fome one and the fame, and as
yet unknown Ipirit, the mover, doth govern the abfent wine, and the vine
which is at a far dillance, and makes them to talk and fuffer together. But,
as to what concerns the power of the liars, I am unwilling, as neither dare I,
according to my own liberty, to extend the forces, powers, or bounds of the
liars beyond or belides the authority of the facred text, which faith (it being
pronounced from a divine tellimony) that the liars lhall be unto us for figns,-
feafons, days, and years : by which rule, a power is never attributed to the
liars, that wine bred in a foreign foil, and brought unto us from far, doth
dillurb, move, or render itfelf confufed : for, the vine had at fome time
received a power of encrealing and multiplying itfelf before the liars were
born : and vegetables were before the liars, and the imagined influx of thefe :
wherefore alfo, they cannot be things conjoined in elfence, one whereof
could confill without the other. Yea, the vine in fome places flowereth
more timely and, in rainy, or the more cold years, our vine flowereth more
llowly, whofe flower and llages of flourilhing the wine doth, notwithftanding,
imitate ; and fo neither doth it refped the liars, that it Ihould dillurb itfelf at
their beck.
In the next place, neither doth the wine hearken unto the flourilhing or blof-
foming of any kind of capers, but of the wine alone : and therefore we mull not
flee unto an univerfal caufe, the general or univerfai ruling air of worldly fuc-
ceffive change; to wit, -we may rather run back unto impoflibilities and ab-
furdities, than unto the moll near commerces of.refemblance and unity, although
hitherto unpalfable by the fchools.
Moreover*
6 MAGNETISM. Book II.
Moreover, that thing doth as yet far more manifeftly appear in ale or beer
when, in times paft, our anceflors had feen that of barley, after whatfoever
manner it was boiled, nothing but an empty ptrfana or barley-broth, or alfo a
pulp was cooked ; they meditated, that the barley firft ought to bud (which
then they called malt) and next, they nakedly boiled their ales, imitating wines
wherein, firft of all, fome remarkable things do meet in one ; to wit, there is
ftirred up in barley, a vegetable bud, the which when the barley is dried, doth
afterwards die, and lofeth the hope of growing, and fo much the more by its
changing into meal, and afterwards by an after-boiling, it defpairs of a growing
virtue ;
yet thefe things nothing hindering, it retains the winey and intoxicat-
ing fpirit of aqua vitae, the which notwithftanding it doth not yet actually pof-
fefs : but at length, in number of days, it attaineth it by virtue of a ferment
to wit, in the one only bofom of one grain one only fpirit is made famous with
diverfe powers, and one power is gelded, another being left: which thing
indeed, doth as yet more wonderfully fhine forth ; when as the ale or beer of
malt difturbs itfelf while the barley flowereth, no otherwife than as wine is
elfewhere wont to do : and fo a power at a far abfent diftance is from hence
plain to be feen : for truly there are cities from whom pleafant meadows do ex-
pel the growing of barley for many miles ; and by £o much the more power-
fully do ales prove their agreement with the abfent flowering barley ; in as much
as the gelding of their power hath withdrawn the hopes of budding and in-
creaflng : and at length the aqua vitae being detained and fhut up within the
ale, hogfhead, and prifon of the cellar, cannot with the fafety of the ale or
beer wandering for fome leagues unto the flowering ear of barley, that thereby,
as a ftormy returner, it may trouble the remaining ale with much confuflon.
Certainly there is a far more quiet paflage for a magnetical or attractive agree-
ment among fome agents at a far diftance from each other, than there is to
dream an aqua vitas wandering out of the ale of a cellar, unto the flowering
barley, and from thence to return unto the former receptacles of its pen-cafe,
and ale : But the flgn imprinted by the appetite ofa woman great with child, on
her young, doth fitly, and alike clearly confirm a magnetifm or attractive faculty
and its operation at a diftance : to wit, let there be a woman great with child,
which
Part I. MAGNATISM. 7
which defires another cherry, let her but touch her forehead or any other
place with her finger ; without doubt, the young is figned in its forehead with
the image of the cherry, which afterwards doth every year wax green, white,
yellow, and at length looks red, according to the tenor of the trees : and it much
more wonderfully exprefles the fame fucceflive alteration of maturities in Spain
than in Germany : and fo hereby an allion at a diftance is not only confirmed,
but alfo a conformity or agreement of the eflences of the cherry tree, in its wood-
en and flefhly trunk ; a confanguinity or near affinity of a being imprefled upon
the part by an inftantaneous imagination, and by a fucceffive courfe of the
years ofits kernel; furelythe more learned ought riot to imputejthofe things unto
evil fpirits, which, through their own weaknefs, they are ignorant of; for thefe
things do on all fides occur in nature, the which, through our flendernefs, we
are not able to unfold ; for to refer whatfoever gifts of God are in nature (be-
caufe our dull capacity does not comprehend the fame rightly) to the devil,
fhews both ignorance and raffinefs, efpecially when, as all demonftration of
caufes from a former thing or caufe is baniffied from us, and efpecially from
Ariftotle, who was ignorant of all nature, and deprived of the good gifts which
defcends from the Father of Lights; unto whom be all honour and glory.
Note. We may, by the aforefaid chapter, fee the wonderful working power of
the attractive or univerfal fpirit, which can by no other means be fo clearly de-
monstrated as by the fympathies in natural things, which are inherent through-
out all nature ; and, upon this principle of fympathy and antipathy, we fay is
founded that fpiritual power which tends to things and objects remote one
from the other, i. e. a magnetic attraction, which does actually exift, as we
Shall clearly prove by experiment, where we fully (hew the aCtion and paffion
that is between natural fpirits, by which means wonderful effeCts are produced,
which have ignorantly been attributed to divers fuperftitions, as Sorcery, In-
chantment,
Nigromancy, or the Black Art, &c.
CHAP.
MAGNETISM. Book II.
CHAP. II.
OF SYMPATHETIC MEDICINES.
IN the year 1639, a little book came forth, whofe title was, f
The Sympa-
thetical Powder of Edricius Mohynus, of Eburo,’ whereby wounds are cured
without application of the medicine unto the part afflided, and without fu-
perdition ; it being fifted by the fieve of the reafons of Galen and Arido-
tle ; wherein it is Aridotetically, diffidently, proved, whatfoever the title of
it promifes ; but it hath negleded the directive faculty, or virtue, which
may bring the virtues of the fympathetical powder, received in the bloody
towel or napkin, unto the didant wound.
Truly, from a wound, the venal blood, _ or corrupt pus, or fanies, from an
ulcer, being received in the towel, do receive, indeed, a balfam from a fana-
tive or healing being; I fay, from the power of the vitriol, a medicinal
power connected and limited in the aforefaid mean ; but the virtues of the
balfam received are directed unto the wounded object, not indeed by an influ-
ential virtue of the Ears, and much lefs do they fly forth of their own accord
unto the objed at a diftance : therefore the ideas of him that applieth
the' fympathetical remedy are connected in the mean, and are made direc-
trefles of the balfam unto the objed of his deflre : even as we have above
alfo minded by injedions concerning ideas of the defire. Mohyns fuppofed
that the power of fympathy depends upon the ftars, becaufe it is an imi-
tator of influences : but I draw it out of a much nearer fubjed : to wit, out
of direding ideas, begotten by their mother Charity, or a defire of good-
will : for, from hence does that fympathetic powder operate more fuccefs-
fully, being applied by the hand of one than another : therefore I have always
obferved the bed procefs where the remedy is inflituted by a defire of cha-
rity ; but, that it doth fucceed, with fmall fuccefs, if the operator be a care-
lefs or drunken perfon : and, from hence, I have more edeemed the dars of
the
Fart I. MAGNETISM. 9
the mind, in fympathetical remedies, than the Stars of heaven : but that
images, being conceived, are brought unto an objed at a diltance, a pregnant
woman is an example of, becaufe the is the who prefently transfers all the
ideas of her conception on her young, which dependeth no otherwife on the
mother than from a communion of univerfal nourishment. Truly, feeing
fuch a direction of delire is plainly natural, it is no wonder that the evil fpirit
doth require the ideas of the delires of his imps to be annexed unto a mean
offered by him. Indeed, the ideas of the defire are after the manner
of the influences of heaven call into a proper objed how locally re-
mote foever ; that is, they are direded by the defire, efpecially pointing out
an objed for itfelf, even as the light of the balilifk, or touch of the torpedo,
is refleded on their willed objed ; for I have already Shewn in its place,
that the devil doth not attribute fo much as any thing in the diredions of
things injeded ; but that he hath need of a free, direding, and operative
power or faculty. But I will not difgrace fympathetical remedies becaufe
the devil operates fomething about things injeded into the body : for what
have fympathetical remedies in common ? Although Satan doth co-operate in
injedions by wicked natural means required from his bond Slaves ; for every
thing Shall be judged guilty, or good, from its ends and intents : and it is
fufficient that fympathetical remedies do agree with things injeded in natural
?neans, or medicines.
CHAP. III.
OF THE MAGNETIC OR SYMPATHETIC UNGUENT, THE POWDER OF SYMPATHY, ARMARY UN.
GUENT, CURING OF WOUNDS, ECSTASIES, WITCHCRAFT, MUMMIES, &C.
WE Shall now Show fome remarkable operations that are effeded by
magnetifm, and founded upon natural fympathy and antipathy, likewife how
by thefe means fome extraordinary cures may be performed.
Book II. C The
10 MAGNETISM. Book IL
f
The goodnefs of the Creator every where extended, created every thing
for the ufe of ungrateful man ; neither did he admit any of the theologifts,
or divines, as afiiftants in council, how many or how great virtues he fhould
infufe into things natural. But there are thofe who venture to meafure the
wonderful works of God by their own Sharpened and refined wit, whereby
they deny God to have given fuch virtue to things ; as though man (a worm)
was able, by his narrow and limited capacity, to comprehend Omnifcience
he therefore meafures the minds of all men by his own, who think that can-
not be done, which they cannot underhand. They therefore can only deve-
lope the myfteries of nature, who being verfed in the art of Cabala, Fire, and
Magic, examined the properties of things, and draw, from darknefs into
light, the lurking powers of Man, Animals, Vegetables, Minerals, and Stones ;
and, feparating the crudities, dregs, poifons, heterogenities, that are the thorns
implanted in virgin nature from the curfe. For an obferver of nature fees
daily (he doth difiil, fublime, calcine, ferment, dijfiolve, coagulate, fix. See. there-
fore we who are the minifters of nature do feparate, &c. finding out the
caufes and effects of every phaenomena (lie produces.
Now, as magnetifm is ordained for the ufe of man, and for the curing of
the various diforders incident to human nature, we (hall firft touch upon the
grand fubjedt of magnetifm, known to pofiefs wonderful properties, and
which are not only evident to every eye, but (hew us fufficient grounds for
our admitting the poflibility and reality of magnetifm in general.
The loadftone pofiefies an eminent medicinal faculty againft many violent
and implacable diforders. Helmont fays, that the back of the loadftone, as it
repulfes iron, fo alfo it removes gout, fwellings, rheum, &c. that is of the
nature or quality of iron. The iron-attradling faculty, if it be joined to the
mummy of a woman, and the back of the loadftone be put within her thigh,
and the belly of the loadftone on her loins, it fafely prevents a mifearriage,
already threatened ;
but the belly of the loadftone applied within the thigh and
the back to her loins, it doth wonderfully facilitate her delivery.
Likewife the wearing the loadftone eafes and prevents the cramp, and fuch
like diforders and pains.
Uldericus
MAGNETISM* II
Part I.
Uldericus Balk, a dominican friar, publiflied a book at Frankfort in the
year 1611, concerning the lamp of life ; in which we fhall find (taken from
Paracelfus) the true magnetical cure of many difeafes, viz. the dropfy, gout,
jaundice, &c. For if thou fhalt enclofe the warm blood of the fick in the
lhell and white of an egg, which is expofed to a nourifhing warmth, and
this blood, being mixed with a piece of flefh, thou fhalt give to a hungry
dog, the diforder departs from thee into the dog ; no otherwife than the
leprofy of Naaman pafled over into Gehazi through the execration of the pro-
phet.
If women, weaning their infants, fhall milk out their milk upon hot
burning coals, the bread: foon dries.
If any one happens to commit nuifance at thy door, and thou wilt prevent
that beaddy trick in future, take the poker red-hot, and put it into the ex-
crement, and, by magnetifm, his poderiors fhall become much fcorched
and inflamed.
Make a fmall table of the lighted:, whited:, and bafed: kind of lead ; and
at one end put a piece of amber, and, three fpans from it, lay a piece of
green vitriol; this vitriol will foon lofe its colour and acid: both which ef-
fects are found in the preparation of amber. The root of the Caroline thif-
tle being plucked up when full of juice and virtue, and tempered with the
mummy of a man, will exhaud: the powers and natural ftrength out of a
man, on whofe fliadow thou ihalt ftand, into thyfelf.
12 MAGNETISM, Book I?>
CHAP. IV.
OF THE ARMARY UNGUENT, OR WEAPON SAEVE, &C.
THE principal ingredient in this confection, is the mofs of a dead man’s
(hull, which Van Helmont calls the excrefcencies or fuperAuities of
the ftars. Now the mofs growing on the Ikull of a dead man, feeing it has re-
ceived its feed from the heavens, but its increafe from the mummial marrow of
the Ikull of man, or tower of the microcofm, has obtained excellent aftral and
magnetic powers beyond the common condition of vegetables, although herbs,
as they are herbs, want not their own magnetifm.
Now, the magnetifm of this unguent draws out that Arrange difpofition from
the wound (which otherwife, by a difunion of the parts that held together,
and by which, I fay, Arrange difpoAtion and foreign quality is produced) from
whence it Aips, not being overburdened or oppreAed by any accident, fuddenly
grow together ; and this is effected by the armary unguent, or weapon falve.
From this it appears that the unguent, or weapon falve, its property is to heal
fuddenly and perfectly without pain, coArs, peril, or lofs of Arrength ; hence it
is manifeAr that the magnetical virtue is from God.
It is now feafonable to difcover the immediate caufe of magnetifm in the
unguent.
FirAr of all, by the confent of tnyftical divines, we divide man into the ex-
ternal and internal man, aAigning to both the powers of a certain mind, or
intelligence : for fo there doth a will belong to fleAi and blood, which may not
be either the will of man or the will of God and the heavenly Father alfo re-
veals fome things unto the more inward man, and fome things flefh and blood
reveals, that is, the outward and fenfitive, or animal man. For, how could
the fervice of idols, envy, &c. be rightly numbered among the works of the
flefta 3
feeing they confift only in the imagination, if the AeAr had not alfo its own
imagination and elective will ?
Furthermore, that there are miraculous ecftafies belonging to the more in-
ward man, is beyond difpute. That there are alfo ecftafies in the animal man,
by
Part I. MAGNETISM. 13
by reafon of an intenfe, or heightend imagination, is, without doubt. Martin
del Ris, an elder of the fociety ofJefus, in his Magical Difquilitions or Enqui-
ries, makes mention of a certain young man in the city Infulis, that was tranf-
ported with fo violent a delire of feeing his mother, that through the fame
intenfe delire, as if being rapt up by an ecftafy, he faw her perfectly, although
many miles abfent from thence ; and, returning again to himfelf, being mind-
ful of ali that he had feen, gave many true ligns of his true prefence with his
mother.
Now that defire arofe from the more outward man, viz. from blood and
fenfe, or llelh, is certain ; for, otherwile, the foul being once diflodged, or loof-
ened from the bonds of the body, cannot, except by miracle, be reunited to it
there is therefore in the blood a certain ecllatical or tranfporting power, which,
if at any time lhall be excited or ftirred up by an ardent delire and mod; lirong
imagination, it is able to conduit the fpirit of the more outward man even to
fome abfent and far dillant objeit, but then that power lies hid in the more
outward man, as it were, in potential or by way of polfibility; neither is it
brought into ait, unlefs it be roufed- up by the imagination, inflamed ancL agi--
tated by a molt fervent and violent delire
CHAP V.
• F TUB IMAGINATIVE POWER AND THE MAGNETISM OF THE NATURAL SPIRITS, MUMMIAJ.
ATTRACTION, SYMPATHIES OF ASTRAL SPIRITS, WITH THEIR BODIES, UPON WHICH THE
WHOLE ART. OF NECROMANCY IS FOUNDED..
MOREOVER, when as the blood is after fome fort corrupted, then indeed 1
v
all the powers thereof which, without a foregoing excitation of the imagination,
were before in poflibility, are of their own accord, drawn forth into aition ; for,
through corruption of the grain, the feminal virtue, ,
otherwife d^owfy, and
barren, breaks forth into ait ; becaufe, .that feeing the eflences of things, and
their
MAGNETISM. Book II.
their vital fpirits, know not how to putrify by the dififolution of the inferior
harmony, they fprung up as furviving afrefh. For, from thence it is that every
occult property, the compad of their bodies being by foregoing digeftion,
(which we call putrifadion) now dilfolved, comes forth free to hand, difpatch-
ed, and manifell: for adion.
Therefore when a wound, through the entrance of air, hath admitted of an
adverfe quality, from whence the blood forthwith fwells with heat or rage in
its lips, and otherwife becomes mattery, it happens, that the blood in the
wound juft made, by reafon of the faid foreign quality, doth now enter into the
beginning of fome kind of corruption (which blood being alfo then received
on the weapon or fplinter thereof, is befmeared with the magnetic ungent) the
which entrance of corruption, mediating the ecftatical power lurking poten-
tially in the blood, is brought forth into adion ; which power, becaufe it is an
exiled returner unto its own body, by reafon of the hidden ecftafy; hence
that blood bears an individual refped unto the blood of its whole body. Then
indeed the magnetic or attradive faculty is bufied in operating in the un-
guent, and through the mediation of the ecftatical power (for fo I call it for
want of an etymology) fucks out the hurtful quality from the lips of the
wound, and at length, through the mummial, balfamical, and attradive virtue,
attained in the unguent, the magnetifm is perfeded.
So thou haft now the pofitive reafon of the natural magnetifm in the un-
guent, drawn from natural magic, whereunto the light of truth aflents ; faying,
“ where the treafure is there is the heart alfo.”
For if the treafure be in heaven, then the heart, that is, the fpirit of the
internal man is in God, who is the paradife, who alone is eternal life.
But if the treafure be fixed or laid up in frail and mortal things, then alfo
the heart and fpirit of the external man is in fading things ; neither is there any
caufe of bringing in a myftical fenfe, by taking not the fpirit, but the cogita-
tion and naked defire, for the heart ; for that would contain a frivolous thing,
that wherefoever a man fhould place his treafure in his thought or cogitation,
there his cogitation would be.
Alfo truth itfelf doth not interpret the prefent text myftically, and alfo by an
example adjoined, Ihews a local and real prefence of the eagles with the dead
carcafs.
Fart I. MAGNETISM. *5
carcafs, To alfo that the fpirit of the inward man is locally in the kingdom of
God in us, which is God himfelf ; and that the heart or fpirit of the animal or
outward fenfitive man is locally about its treafure.
What wonder is it, that the aftral fpirits of carnal or animal men fhould, as
yet, after their funerals, fhew themfelves as in a bravery, wandering about their
buried treafure, whereunto the whole of Necromancy (or art of divination by
the calling of fpirits) of the antients hath enflaved itfelf ?
I fay, therefore, that the internal man is an animal or living creature, making
ufe of the reafon and will of blood : but, in the mean time, not barely an ani-
mal, but moreover the image of God.
Logicians therefore may fee how defectively they define a man from the
power of rational difcourfe. But of thefe things more elfewhere.
I will therefore adjoin the magnetifm of eagles to carcafies ; for neither are
flying fowls endowed with fuch an acute fmelling, that they can, with a mu-
tual confent, go from Italy into Africa unto carcafies.
For neither is an odour, fo largely anduvidely fpread ; for the ample latitude
of the interpofed fea hinders it, , and alfo a certain elementary property of con-
fuming it; nor is there any ground that thou fhouldefl: think thefe birds do
perceive the dead carcafies at fo far a diftance, with there fight, efpecially if
thofe birds fhall lie foutliwards behind a. mountain.
But what need is there to enforce the magnetifm of fowls by many argu-
ments, fince God himfelf, who is the beginning and end of philofophy, doth
exprefsly determine the fame procefs to be of the heart and treafure, with thefe
birds and the carcafs, and fo interchangeably between thefe and them ?
For if the eagles were led to their food, the carcafies, with the fame appetite
whereby four-footed beafts are Brought on to their paftures, certainly he had
faid, in one word, that living creatures flock to their food even as the heart of.
man to his treafure ; which would contain a falfehood : for neither doth the
heart of man proceed unto its treafure, that he may be filled therewith, as liv-
ing creatures do to their meat; and therefore the comparifon of the heart of
man and of the eagle lies not in the end for which they, tend or incline to a
defire, but in the manner of tendency ; namely that they are allured and carri-
ed on by magnetifm, really and locally.
Therefor©
MAGNETISM. Book II.
16
Therefore the fpirit and will of the blood fetched out of -the wound, having
intruded itfelf into the ointment by the weapon being anointed therewith, do
tend towards their treafure, that is, the reft of the blood as yet enjoying the life
of the more inward man : but he faith by a peculiar teftimony, that the eagle
is drawn to the carcafs, becaufe flue is called thereunto by an implanted and
mummial fpirit of the carcafs, but not by the odour of the putrifying body : for
indeed that animal, in affimilating, appropritates to himfelf only this mummial
fpirit : for from thence it is faid of the eagle, in a peculiar manner/* my youth
fhall be renewed as the eagle’s.”
For truly the renewing of her youth proceeds from an eftential extraction of
the mummial fpirit being well refined by a certain fingular digeftion proper to
that fowl, and not from a bare eating of the flefh of the carcafs ; otherwife
dogs alfo and pies would be renewed, which is falfe.
Thou wilt fay, that it is a reafon far-fetched in behalf of magnetifm ; but
what wilt thou then infer hereupon ? If that which thou confefieth to b^
far remote for thv capacity of understanding, that fhall alfo with thee be ac-
counted to be fetched from far. Truly the book of Genefis avoucheth, that
in the blood of all living creatures doth their foul exift.
For there are in the blood certain vital powers *, the which, as if they were
foulified or enlivened, do demand revenge from Heaven, yea, and judicial
punhhment from earthly judges on the murderer ; which powers, feeing they
cannot be denied to inhabit naturally in the blood, I fee not why they can
* This fingular property of the blood, which Helmont calls Vital Powers, is no lefs wonderful than
true, having been myfelf a witnefs of this experiment while in South Wales. It was tried upon a body
that was malicioufly murdered, through occafion of a quarrel over-night at an alehoufe. The fellow
who was fufpefted of the murder appeared the next day in public feemingly unconcerned.
r
Ihe Coroner’s
Jury fat upon the body within twenty-four hours after this notable murder was committed; when the
fufpefted was fuddenly taken into cuftody, and conveyed away to the fame public-houfe where the inqui-
fition was taken. After fome debate, one Dr. Jones defired the fufpefted to be brought into the room
which done, he defired the villain to lay his left hand under the wound, which was a deep gafh on the
neck, and another on the bread; the villain plainly confeffed his guilt by his trepidation; but as foon as
he lightly laid his finger on the body, the blood immediately ran, about fix or feven drops, to the admira-
tion cf all prefent. If any one doubts the truth of this narrative, however learned and profound he
may think himfelf, let him call perfonally upon me, and I will give him fuch reference, and that truly
fefpe£lable and fair, as fhall convince him of the faff. Irancis Barrett, #
MAGNETISM.
Part I.] i
7
rejed: the magnetifm of the blood, as accounting it among the ridiculous
works of Satan.
This I will fay more, to wit, that thofe who walk in their deep, do, by
no other guide than the fpirit of the blood, that is, of the outward man, walk
up and down, perform bufinefs, climb walls, and manage things that are
otherwife impoffible to thofe that are awake. I fay, by a magical virtue,
natural to the more outward man ;
that Saint Ambrofe, although he was
for diftant in his body, yet was vilibly prefent at the funeral folemnities of
Saint Martin •, yet was he fpiritually prefent at thofe folemnities, in the viiible
fpirit of the external man, and no otherwife : for, inafmuch as in that ec-
flafy which is of the more internal man, many of the faints have feen many
and abfent things. This is done without time and place, through the fupe-
rior powers of the foul being collected in unity, and by an intellectual vifion,
but not by a vifible prefence ; otherwife the foul is not feparated from the
body, but in good earned:, or for altogether neither is it re-conneCted there-
unto, which re-connexion, notwithftanding, is otherwife natural or familiar to
the fpirit of the more outward man.
It is not fufficient in fo great a paradox, to have once, or by one fingle
reafon, touched at the matter 3 it is to be further propagated, and wr
e mud: ex-
plain how a magnetical attraction happens alfo between inanimate things, by
a certain perceivance or feeling 3 not indeed animal or fendtive, but natural.
Which thing, that it may be the more ferioudy done, it behoves us firfl to
fliew what Satan can, of his own power, contribute to, and after what man-
ner he can co-operate in the merely wicked and impious addons of witches
for, from thence it will appear unto what caufe every effeCt may be attri-
buted.
In the next place, what that fpiritual power may be which tends to a far
remote objeCt 3 or what may be the addon, padion, and Ikirmidiing between
natural fpirits, or what may be the fuperiority of man as to other inferior crea-
tures 3 and, by confequence, why indeed our unguent, being compounded of
human mummies, do thoroughly cure horfes alfo. We will explain the matter
in the following chapter.
Book II. D CHAP,
i8 MAGNETISM, Book XL
CHAP, VI,
OF WITCHCRAFT,
LET a witch therefore be granted, who can fitrongly torment an abfent
man by an image of wax, by imprecation or curbing, by enchantment, or alfo
by a foregoing touch alone, (for here we fpeak nothing of Sorceries, becaufe
they are thole which kill only by poifon, inafmuch as every common apothe-
cary can imitate thofe things) that this a£t is diabolical, no man doubts
however, it is profitable to difcern how much Satan and how much the witch
can contribute hereunto.
The Firjl Suppofition..
Firldof all, thou fhalt take notice, that Satan is the fworn and irreconcileable
enemy of man, and to be fo accounted by all, unlefs any one had rather have
him to be his friend^ and therefore he mold readily procures whatfoever mif-
chief he is able to caufe or with unto us, and that without doubt and negledd.
The Second Suppojition.
And then although he be an enemy to witches themfelves, forafmuch as he
is alfo a mold malicious enemy to all mankind in general ; yet, in regard they
are his bond-flaves, and thofe of his kingdom, he never, unlefs againft his
will, betrays them, or difcovers them to judges, &c.
From the former fuppofition I conclude, that if Satan were able of himfelf to
kill a man who is guilty of deadly fin, he would never delay it fbut he doth not
kill him, therefore he cannot.
Notwithftanding, the witch doth oftentimes kill; hence alfo fhe can kill the
fame man, no otherwife than as a privy murderer at the liberty of his own will,
flays any one with a fword.
There
Part I. MAGNETISM. I?
There is therefore a certain power of the witch in this adtion, which be-
longs not to Satan, and confequently Satan is not the principal efficient and
executor of that murder ; for otherwife if he were the executioner thereof, he
would in nowife Hand in need of the witch as his affidant ; but he alone had
foon taken the greated part of men out of the way.
Surely mod; miferable were the condition of mortals who fhould be fubjedt
to fuch a tyrant, and ftand liable to his commands ; we have too faithful a God,
than that he ffiould fubjedt the work of his own hands to the arbitrary dominion
of Satan.
Therefore in this adt, there is a certain power .plainly proper and natural to
the witch which belongs not to Satan.
Moreover, of what nature, extent, and quality that power may be, we mud:
more exadtly lift out.
~
In the fird place, it is manifed that it is no corporeal drength of the male
fex ; for neither doth there concur any drong touching of the extreme parts
of the body, and witches are for the mod part feeble, impotent, and malicious
old women, therefore there mud needs be fome other power, far fuperior to a
corporeal attempt, yet natural to man.
This power therefore was to be feated in that part wherein we mod nearly
referable the image of God ; and although all things do alfo, after fome fort,
reprefent that venerable image, yet becaufe man doth mod elegantly, properly,
and nearly do that, therefore the image of God in man doth far outffiine, bear
rule over, and command the images of God in all other creatures ; for, perad-
venture, by this prerogative, all things are put under his feet.
Wherefore if God adt, per nutum> or by a beck, namely by his word, fo
ought man to adt fome things only by his beck or will, if he ought to be called
his true image : for neither is that new, is that troublefome, is that proper to
God alone : for Satan, the mod vile abjedt of creatures, doth alfo locally move
bodies per nutum, or by his beck alone, feeing he hath not extremities or cor-
poreal organs, whereby to touch, move, or alfo to fnatch a new body to him-
feIf.
20 MAGNETISM. Book II.
That privilege therefore ought no lefs to belong to the inward man, as he
is a fpirit, if he ought to reprefent the image of God, and that indeed not an
idle one ; if we call this faculty magical, and thou being badly intruded, art
terrified at this word, thou mayefl:, for me, call it a fpiritual flrength or effica-
cy: for, truly, we are nothing folicitous about names. I always, as imme-
diately as I can, caft an eye upon the thing itfelf.
'I hat magical power, therefore, is in the inward man, whether thou, by this
etymology, or true word, underhanded: the foul or the vital fpirit thereof, it is
now indifferent to us ; fince there is a certain proportion of the internal man to-
wards the external in all things, glowing or growing after its own manner,
which is an appropriated difpolition, and proportioned property.
Wherefore the power or faculty mull: needs be dilperfed throughout the
whole man ; in the foul, indeed, more vigorous, but in the flefh and blood far
more remifs.
CHAP. VII.
OF THE VITAL SPIRIT, &C.
THE vital fpirit in the flefh and blood performs the office of the foul ; that
is, it is the fame fpirit in the outward man, which, in the feed, forms the whole
figure, that magnificent ftrudure and perfed delineation of man, and which
hath known the ends of things to be done, becaufe it contains them ; and the
which, as prefident, accompanies the new framed young, even unto the period
of its life and the which, although it depart therewith, fome fmacks or finall
quantity, at leaf!, thereof remains in a carcafs flain by violence, being as it were
molt exadly co-fermented with the fame. But, from a dead carcafs that
was extind of its own accord, and from nature failing, as well the implanted
as inflowing fpirit pafled forth at once.
For
21
Part I. MAGNETISM.
For which reafon, phyficians divide this fpirit into the implanted or mum-
mial, and inflowing or acquired fpirit, which departs ; to wit, with the for-
mer life and this influxing fpirit they afterwards fubdivide into the natural,
vital, and animal fpirit -
}
but, we likewife, do here comprehend them all at once
in one fingle word.
The foul therefore being wholly a fpirit could never move or ftir up the
vital fpirit, (being indeed corporeal,) much lefs flefh and bones, unlefs a certain
natural power, yet magical and fpiritual, did defcend from the foul into the
fpirit and body.
After what fort, I pray, could the corporeal fpirit obey the commands of the
foul, unlefs there fhould be a command from her for moving of the fpirit, and
afterwards the body ?
But againft this magical motive faculty thou will forthwith objedt, that that
power is limited within her compofed body, and her own natural inn : there-
fore although we call this foul a magiciannefs, yet it fhall be only a wrefting
and abufe of the name ; for truly the true and fuperflitious magic draws not its
foundation from the foul ; feeing this fame foul is not able to move, alter, or
exite any thing out of its own body.
I anfwer, that this power, and that natural magic of the foul which die
exercifeth not of herfelf, by virtue of the image of God, doth now lie hid as
obfcure in man, and as it were lie afleep fince the fall or corruption of Adam,
and ftands in need of ftirring up ; all which particulars we fhall anon in their
proper place prove ; which fame power, how drowfy and as it were drunk fo-
ever, it otherwife remains daily in. us, yet it is fufficient to perform its offices
in its own bodyf
CHAP,
MAGNETISM..
22
CHAP. VIII.
OF THE MAGICAL POWEE, &C.
THEREFORE the knowledge and power magical, and that faculty in man
which adeth only per nutum, deeps fince the knowledge of the apple was eaten. ;
and as long as this knowledge (which is of the flefh and blood, grofs and ma-
terial, belonging to the external man and darknefs) flourifhes, the more noble
magical power is lying dormant.
But becaufe in deep this outward or fenfual knowledge is fometimes dor-
mant, hence it is that our dreams are fometimes prophetical, and God him-
felf is therefore nearer unto man in dreams, through that effed, viz. when the
more inward magic of the foul being uninterrupted by the flefh, diffufes itfelf
on every fide into the underftanding ; even as when it finks itfelf into the infe-
rior powers thereof it fafely leads thofe who walk in their deep by moving or
conducting them, whither thofe that were awake could not furmount or
climb.
Therefore we eftablifh this point, viz. that there is inherent in the foul a
certain magical virtue given her by God, naturally proper and belonging to her,
in afmuch as we are his image and engravement ; and in this refped fhe ads
alfo in a peculiar manner, /. e. fpiritually on an objed at a diftance, and that
more powerfully than by any corporeal affifhnce ; for feeing the foul is the
principal part of the body, therefore all adion belonging to her is fpiritual, ma-
gical, and of the greateft validity.
Which power man is able, by the Art of the Cabala, to excite in himfelf at
his own pleafure, and thefe, as we have before faid, are called Adepts ; who
are governed by the Spirit of God.
Thus we have endeavoured to lhew that man predominates over all other
creatures that are corporeal, and that by his magical faculty he is able to fubdue
the magical virtues of all other things j which predominance of man, or the
foul's
Part X. MAGNETISM, 23
foul’s natural magic, fome have ignorantly attributed folely to •verfes, charms,
Jignsy characters, &c. by which hierarchy or holy dominion inherent in man,
thofe effeCts, whatever they may be, are wrought, which fome (who but too
corporeally philofophize) have attributed to the dominion of Satan.
High and facred is the force of the microcofmical fpirit, which, as is
evident in pregnant women, ftamps upon the young the image and properties of
a thing deflrea, as we have before inftanced in a cherry, which, without the
trunk of a tree, brings forth a true cherry, that is flefh and blood, enobled with
the properties and power of the more inward or real cherry, by the conception
of the imagination alone ; from whence are two neceffary confequenceS.
Firflr, that all the fpirits, and as it were the eflences of all things, lie hid in
us, and are'born and brought forth only by the working, power, and phantafy
of the microcofm.
The fecond is, that the foul, in conceiving, generates a certain idea of the
thing conceived ; the which, as it before lay hid unknown, like fire in a flint,
fo by the ftirring up of the phantafy there is produced a certain real idea, which
is not a naked quality, but fomething like a fubftance, hanging in fufpence be-
tween a body and a fpirit, that is the foul.
That middle being is fo fpiritual, that it is not plainly exempted from a cor-
poreal condition, fince the actions of the foul are limited on the body, and the
inferior orders of faculties depending upon it, nor yet fo corporeal that it may
be inclofed by dimenfions, the' which we have alfo related to be only proper
to a feminal being. This ideal entity, therefore, when it falls out of the invi-
fible and intellectual world of the microcofm, it puts on a body, and then it is
firfl inclofed by the limitation of place and numbers.
The objeCt of the underftanding is in itfelf a naked and pure eflence, not an
accident, by the confent of practical, that is, myftical divines; therefore' this
Proteus or transferable eflence, the underftanding doth, as it were, put on and
clothe itfelf, with this conceived eflence.
But becaufe every body, whether external or internal, hath its making in its
own proper image, the underftanding knows or difcerns not, the will loves and
wills not, the memory recolleCts not, but by images or likenefles : the under-
ftanding
24 MAGNETISM. Book II,
Handing therefore puts on this fame image of its objedi 3 and becaufe the foul
is the pure fimple form ofthe body, which turns itfelf about to every member,
therefore the adting underfianding cannot have two images at once, but firH
one and then the other. He, who is wholly the life, created all things and
hath faid, nothing is to be expedted as dead out of his hand. Likewife no-
thing can come to our view wherein himfelf is not clearly apparent or prefent
for it is faid, “ the fpirit of the Lord hath filled the whole globe of the
earth and, again, “ that he containeth or comprehended! all things,” there-
fore there is nothing in being, no creature but what pofiefies a certain degree
of divine fire and life, yet lying dormant or unexcited, till ftirred up by the
art, power, and operation of man.
CHAP. IX.
OF THE EXCITING OR STIRRING UP THE MAGICAL VIRTUE.
EVERY magical virtue therefore Hands in need of an excitement, by which
a certain fpiritual vapour is Hirred up, by reafon whereof the phantafy which
profoundly fleeps is awakened, and there begins an adtion of the corporeal
fpirit, as a medium, which is that of Magnetifm, and is excited by a fore-
going touch.
There is a magical virtue, being as it were abflradted from the body, which
is wrought by the flirring up of the power of the foul, from whence there are
made moH potent procreations, and moH famous impreflions, and Hrong effedts,
fo that nature is on every fide a magiciannefs, and adts by her own phan-
tafy 3 and by how much the more fpiritual her phantafy is, fo much the more
powerful it is, therefore the denomination of magic is truly proportionable or
concordant.
Now
Part I. MAGNETISM- 25
Now the higheft fort of magic is that which is ftirred up from an intellectual
conception, and indeed that of the inward man is only to be excited by the Holy
Spirit, and by his gift the Cabala ; but that of the external man is ftirred up by
a ftrong imagination, by a daily and heightened fpeculation, and, in witches, by
the devil.
But the magical virtue of the exhaled fpiritual vapour, or fubtil fpirits fent
from the body, which before lay in potentia, or by way of poflibility only, is ei-
ther excited by a more ftrong imagination, the magician making ufe of the
blood as a medium, and eftablifhing his kindled entity thereon, or by the amend-
ing phantafy of the weapon falve, the exciterefs of the property lying in the
blood ; elfe by a foregoing appointment or difpofition of the blood unto corrup-
tion, viz. whereby the elements are difpofed unto a feparation, and the effences
(which cannot putrify) and the eflential phantafies, which lay hid in the pro-
perties come forth into acftion.
The phantafy therefore, of any fubjecft whatfoever has obtained a ftrong appe-
tite to the fpirit of another thing, for the moving of fome certain thing in place,
for the attracting, repelling, or expulfton thereof; and there and not elfewhere
we acknowledge magnetifm as the natural magical endowment of that thing
firmly planted in it by God.
There is therefore a certain formal property feparated from fympathetical
and abftrufe qualities ; becaufe the motive phantafy of thefe qualities do not
directly fly unto a local motion, but only to an alterative motion of the object.
Now it is fufficient that (if a man happens to receive many wounds in his body)
blood be had only from one of thefe wounds, and from this one the reft are cured
alfo, becaufe that blood keeps a concordant harmony with the fpirit of the
whole, and draws forth from the fame the offenfive quality communicated, not
only to the lips of the wound, but to the whole man, for from one wound only
the whole man is liable to grow feverifti.
Therefore the outchafed blood being received on the weapon is introduced
into-the magnetic unguent.
For then the phantafy of the blood, being otherwife as yet drowfy and flow to
acftion, being ftirred up by the virtue of the magnetic unguent, and there finding
Book IT E the
MAGNETISM. Book II.
26
the balfamic virtue of it, defires the quality induced into it, to be beftowed on
itfelf throughout, and from thence by a lpiritual magnetifm to draw out all the
ftrange tindture of the wound, which, feeing it cannot fitly enough effedt by it-
felf, it implores the aid of the mofs> blood,
fat, and mummy, which are conjoined
together into fuch a balfams which not but by its own phantafy becomes alfo
medicinal, magnetical, and. is alfo a tradtor of all the ftrange qualities out of the
body, whofe frefh blood, abounding with fpirit, is carried unto it, whether it
fhall be that of a. man or any other living creature. The phantafy therefore is
a returner, or reducible and ecflatical, from part of the blood that is frefh and
newly brought unto the unguent ; but the magnetic attradlion began in the
blood is perfedted by the medicinal virtue of the unguent; not that the unguent
draws the infirmity of the wound unto itfelf, but it alters the blood newly
brought unto it, in its fpirit, and makes it medicinal, and ftirs up the power
thereof: from thence it contradts a certain medicinal virtue, which returns
unto its whole body to corredt the fpirit of the blood throughout the whole
man. Now, to manifeft a great myftery, viz. tofhew that in man there is placed
a great efficacy whereby he may be able only by his beck, (as we before men-
tioned) nod or phantafy, to adt out of himfelf, and to imprint a virtue, a certain
influence which afterwards perfeveres, or constantly fubftfts by itfelf, and adts
upon objedts at a very great diftance ; by which only myftery, thofe things
which we have fpoken (relative to ideal entity conveyed in a fpiritual fewel, and
departing far from home to execute its offices, concerning the magnetifm of all
things begotten in the imagination of man, as in that which is proper to every
thing, and alfo concerning the magical fuperiority of men over all other bodies,)
will plainly and confpicuoufly appear.
CHAP,
Part I<^ MAGNETISM, 27
CHAP. X.
OF THE MAGICAL VIRTUE OF THE SOUL, AND THE MEDIUMS BY WHICH IT ACTS.
SOMETHING more we will add, before we difmifs the prefent fubjeil,
which is that if a nail, dart, knife, or fword, or any other iron inflrument
be thrufl into the heart of a horfe, it will bind and withhold the fpirit of a
witch, and conjoin It with the mummial fpirit of the horfe, whereby they may
be burnt in the fire together, and by that the witch is tormented, as by a fling
or burning, by which means file may be known fo that fhe who is offenfive to
God, and deflruilive to mortal men, may be taken away from fociety according
to the law of God <f
thou fhall not fuffer a witch to live j” for if the work be
limited to any outward object, that work the magical foul never attempts with-
out a medium or mean : therefore it makes ufe of the nail, or fword, or knife, or
any other thing as aforefaid.
Now this being proved, that man hath a power of ailing, per nutum, or by his
nod, or of moving any objeit remotely placed ; it has alfo been fufficiently con-
firmed by the fame natural example, that this efficacy was alfo given unto man
by God.
And as every magical faculty lies dormant, and has need of excitement, or
ftirring up ; which is always true, if the objeit whereon it is to ail is not
nearly difpofed, if its internal phantafy doth not wholly confirm to the im-
preffion of the agent, or alfo if the patient be equal' in ftrength, or fuperior to
the agent therein.-
But on the contrary, where the objeit is plainly and nearly difpofed, as
fliel is, for the receiving of magnetifm, then the patient without much ftir-
ring up, the alone phantafy of the more outward man being drawn out to
the work and bound up to any fuitable mean, yields to the magnetifm.
Therefore we repeat, the magician mufl always make ufe of a medium
for then the words or forms of facraments do always operate, becaufe from
E 2 the
2 MAGNETISM. Book II.
the work performed. But the reafon why exorcifms, conjurations, charms,
incantations, &c. do fometimes fail of their defired efFedl, is becaufe the un-
excited mind, or fpirit of the exorcift, renders the words dull or inef-
fectual.
Therefore no man can be a happy or fuccefsful magician, but him who
knows how to ftir up the magical virtue of his foul, or can do it practically
without fcience.
And there can be no nearer medium of magnetifm, than human blood
with human blood.
And no fympathetic remedies, magnetical or attractive, but from the
idea or phantafy of the operator impreffing upon it a virtue and efficacy from
the excited power in his own foul.
And now to bring our Magnetic Treatife to a total conclufion, we have to fay,
that whoever, through ignorance or obftinacy, will fay there is no validity or
reafon, or reality in the fcience of magnetifm, proves himfelf unworthy the
facred name of philofopher, becaufe he condemns what he knows nothing at
all about.
For thofe who will give themfelves the leifure to examine the truth of
thofe things which we have taught, will not find their expectation deceived,
therefore will not condemn.
But whoever fhould be fo fuperftitious as to attribute a natural effeCt fo
created by God, and beftowed on the creature, unto the power and craft of
the devil, he filches the honour due to the Omnipotent Creator, and re-
proachfully applies the fame unto Satan ; the which (under favour) will be
found to be exprefs idolatry and blafphemy.
“ There are three” (as fays the Scripture) “ who bear record in heaven;
the Father, the Word, and the Holy Spirit ; and thefe three are only one.”
There are three that bear record on earth ; the bloody the. fpirit, and the
water ; and thefe three are only one.
We therefore, who have the like humanity, contain blood and fpirit of a
co-like unity ; and the aCtion of the blood is merely fpiritual. Therefore, in
Genefs,
Part I. MAGNETISM. 29
Genejis, it is not called by the etymology of blood, but is made remarkable by
the name of a red fpirit.
Therefore, let thofe who would attain knowledge in thefe things, and be
perfect in what we have fet before them, conftantly meditate and deflre that
the Firft Caufe and Archetype of all things would gracioufly and mercifully
illuminate their minds ; without which, they grope but in darknefs and uncer-
tainty, and are fubjedt to the delufions of impure fpirits and devus, who are
only to be put to flight by putting on the whole armour of God, in whom we
all live, move, breathe, and have our being.
END OF MAGNETISM.
/_
\
f
THE CABAL A;
OR, THE
SECRET MYSTERIES
OF
CEREMONIAL MAGIC
ILLUSTRATED.
'
SHEWING
THE ART OF CALCULATING BY DIVINE NAMES
The Rule, Order, and Government of
ANGELS, INTELLIGENCES, AND BLESSED SPIRITS
Holy Seals, Pentacles, Tables of the Cabala, Divine Numbers, Chara&ers and Letters
Of Miracles, Prophecy, Dreams, &c. &c. See.
Embelliihed and beautified with a vaft Number of
RARE FIGURES, PENTACLES, CHARACTERS, &c. &c. &c.
Ufed in the
CABALISTIC ART,
Br FRANCIS BARRET
3TVDENT OF CHEMISTRY, NATURAL AND OCCULT PHILOSOPHY, THE CABALA, &CC,
CABALISTICAL MAGIC.
*
/
CHAP. I.
OF THE CABALA^ &C.
'OT7 E fhall now turn our pen to the explaining of the high and myfterious
fecrets of the Cabala, by which only we can know the truth ; and
likewife how to prepare our mind and fpirit for the contemplation of the
greateft and beft part of magic, which we call intelledual and divine, be-
caufe it chiefly takes Goa and the good fpirits for its object ; and as the caba-
liftic art opens many and the chiefefl myfleries and fecrets of ceremonial
magic.
But in refped of explaining or publifhing thofe. few fecrets in the Cabala,
which are amongft a few wife men, and communicated by word of mouth
only, I hope the ftudent will pardon me if I pafs over thefe in fllence, becaufe
we are not permitted io divulge fome certain things : but this we fhall do ;
we will open all thofe fecrets which are neceflary to be known ; and by the
clofe reading of which, you fhall find out, of your own head, to be both
profitable and delightful.
Therefore, all we folicit is, that thofe who perceive thofe fecrets fhould
keep them together as fecrets, and not expofe or babble them to the unworthy ;
but reveal them only to faithful, difcreet, and chofen friends. And we would
caution you in this beginning, that every magical experiment flies from the
public, feeking to be hid, is ftrengthened and confirmed by filence, but
is deftroyed by publication ; never does any complete effed follow after
likewife all the virtue of thy works will fuffer detriment when poured into
weak, prating, and incredulous minds ; therefore, if thou would be a magi-
F cian,
THE CABALA ; OR, Book II.
34
cian, and gain fruit from this art, to be fecret, and to manifest to none,
either thy work, or place, or time, nor thy defire or will, except it be to a
rnafter, or partner, or companion, who fhould likewife be faithful, difcreet,
filent, and dignified by nature and education ; feeing that even the prating of
a companion, his unbelief, doubting, queftioning, and, laffcly, unworthinefs,
hinders and difturbs the. effeCt in every operation.
CHAP. II.
WHAT DIGNITY AND PREPARATION IS ESSENTIALLY NECESSARY TO HIM WHO WOULD
BECOME A TRUE MAGICIAN.
IT is fit that we who endeavour to attain fo great a height fhould firft
fludy two things : viz. Firft, how we fhould leave vain and carnal affections,
frail fenfe, and material pafiions ; Secondly, by what ways and means we may
afcend to an intellect pure, and joined with the powers of the celeftials,
without which we fhall never happily afcend to the fcrutiny of fecret things,
and to the power of working wonderful effeCts, &c. Now, if thou art a
man perfeCt in thy underftanding, and conftantly meditating upon what we
have in this book written, and without doubting, believeth, thou fhalt be
able, by praying, confecrating, deprecating, invocating, &c. to attract fpiri-
tual and celeftial gifts, and to imprint them on whatever things thou fhalt
pleafe ; and by it to vivify every magical work.
CHAP.
(
Part I
),
CEREMONIAL MAGIC. 35
"
' i - ;
' !
\*
;
j
'
CHAP. III.
THAT THE KNOWLEDGE OF THE TRUE GOD IS NECESSARY FOR A MACICIAN.
SEEING that the being and operation of all things depend on the Moft
High God, Creator of all things, and from thence on the other divine
powers, to whom alfo is granted a power of fafhioning and creating, not prin-
cipally indeed, but inftrumentally, by virtue of the Firft Great Creator, (for
the beginning of every thing is the firft caufe ; but what is produced by the
fecond caufe is much more produced by the firft, which is the producer of the
fecond caufe, which therefore we call fecondaries.) It is neceflary, therefore,
that every magician fhould know that very God, which is the firft caufe and
creator of all things, and likewife the other divine powers, (which we call
the fecond caufes,) and not to be ignorant of them, and likewife what holy
rites, ceremonies, &c. are conformable to them; but, above all, we are to
worfhip in fpirit and truth, and place our firm dependance upon that one only
God who is the author and promoter of all good things, the Father of all,
moft bountiful and wife ; the facred light of juftice, and the abfolute and foie
perfection of all nature, and the contriver and wifdom thereof.
CHAP. IV.
OF DIVINE EMANATIONS, AND TEN SEPHIROTHS, AND TEN MOST SACRED NAME! OF GOD
WHICH RULE THEM, AND THE INTERPRETATION OF THEM.
GOD himfelf, although he is trinity in perfons, yet he is but one only
fimple eflence ;
yet we doubt not but that there are in him many divine
powers, which emanate or flow from him.
F 2 The
3 6 THE CABALA $ OR, Book II.
The Cabalifts mod learned in divine things have received the ten principal
names of God, as certain divine powers, or, as it were, members of God ;
which, by ten numerations, which we call Sephiroth, as it were vediments,
indruments, or exemplars of the Archetype, have an influence upon all created
things, from the highed to the lowed: ;
yet by a certain order : for firft and
immediately they have influence upon the nine orders of angels and quire of
blefled fouls, and by them into the celedial fpheres, planets and men ; by the
which Sephiroth every thing receiveth power and virtue.
The fird of thefe is the name Eheia, the name of the divine eflence ; his
numeration is called Cether, which is interpreted a crown or diadem, and
fignifi.es the mod Ample eflence of the divinity; and it is called that
which the eye feeth not; and is attributed to God the Father, and hath
its influence by the order of feraphims, or Hajoth Hakados, that is, crea-
tures of holinefs ; and then by the primum mobilet it bedows the gift of
being upon all things, and filleth the whole univerfe, both through the
circumference and center ; whofe particular intelligence is called Merat-
tron, that is, the prince of faces, whofe duty it is to bring others to the face
of the Prince ; and by him the Lord fpake to Mofes.
The fecond name is Jod, or Tetragrammaton joined with Jod ; his numera-
tion is Hochma, that is, wifdom, and fignifies the divinity full of ideas, and
the Fird Begotten ; and is attributed to the Son, and has its influence by the
order of cherubins, or that the Hebrews call Orphanim, i. e. forms or
wheels ; and from thence into the darry heavens, where he frames fo many
figures as he hath ideas in himfelf, and didinguiflies the very chaos of the
creatures, by a particular intelligence called Raziel, who was the ruler of Adam.
The third name is called Tetragrammaton Elohim ; his numeration is
named Prina, viz. providence and underdanding ; and fignifies remifl'nefs,
quietnefs, the jubilee, penetential converfion, a great trumpet, redemption
of the world, and the life of the world to come : it is attributed to the Holy
Spirit, and hath his influence by the order of thrones, or which the Hebrews
call Abalim, that is, great angels, mighty and drong ; and from thence, by
the fphere of Saturn, adminiders form to the unfettled matter, whofe parti-
cular
Part I. CEREMONIAL MAGIC. 37
cular intelligence is Zaphkiel, the ruler of Noah, and another intelligence
named Jophiel, the ruler of Sem ; and thefe are the three fupreme and high-
eft numerations, as it were, feats of the divine perfons, by whofe command
all things are made ; but are executed by the other feven, which are there-
fore called numerations framing.
The fourth name is El, whofe numeration is Hefed, which fignifies cle-
mency or goodnefs ; likewife grace, mercy, piety, mgnificence, the fcepter,
and right-hand ; and hath its influx by the order of dominations, which the
Hebrews call Hafmalim ; and fo through the fphere of Jupiter fafhions the
images 6f bodies, bellowing clemency and pacifying juflice on all: his parti-
cular intelligence is Zadkiel, the ruler of Abraham.
The fifth name is Elohim Gibor, that is, the mighty God, punifhing the
fins of the wicked ; and his numeration is called Gebufach, which is to fay,
power,, gravity, fortitude, fecurity, judgment, punifhing by daughter and
war ; and it is applied to the tribunal of God, the girdle, the fword, the
left hand of God ; it is- alfo called Pachad, which is fear; and hath his
influence through the order of powers, which the Hebrews call Seraphim,
and from thence through the fphere of Mars, to whom belongs fortitude,
war, and affliction. It draweth forth the elements ; and his particular in-
telligence is Camael, the ruler of Samfon.
The fixth name is Eloha, or a name of four letters joined with Vaudahat ;
his numeration is Tiphereth, that is, apparel, beauty, glory, pleafure, and
fignifies the tree of life, and hath his influence through the order of virtues,
which the Hebrews call Malachim, that is, angels, into the fphere of the fun,
giving brightnefs and life to it, and from thence producing metals; his
particular intelligence is Raphael, who was the ruler of Ifaac, and Toby the
younger, and -the angel Peliel, the Ruler of Jacob.
The feventh name is Tetragrammaton Sabaoth, or Adonai Sabaoth, that is,
the God of Hofls ; and his numeration is Nezah, that is, truimph and vi&ory :
the right column is applied to it, and it fignifies the juflice and eternity of a re-
venging God ; it hath its influence through the orders of principalities, whom
the Hebrews call E/ohim, i. e. Gods, into the fphere of Venus gives zeal and
love
38 THE CABALA 3 OR, Book II.
\
love of righteoufnefs, and produces vegetables 3 his intelligence is Hamel, and
the angel CervieJ, the ruler of David.
The eighth is called alfo Elohim Sabaoth, which is likewife the God of
Holts, not of war and jultice, but of piety and agreement, for this name
fignifies both, and precedeth his army 3 the numeration of this is called Hod,
which is, praife, confeflion, honour and fame 3 the left column is attributed to
it 3 it hath his influence through the order of the archangels, which the He-
brews call Ben Elohim, that is, the fons of God, into the fphere of Mercury,
and gives elegancy, and confonancy of fpeech, and produces living creatures 3
his intelligence is Michael, who was the ruler of Solomon.
The ninth name is called Sadai, that is. Omnipotent, fatisfying all, and Elhai,
which is the Living God 3 his numeration is Jefod, that is, foundation, and
fignifies a good underftanding, a covenant, redemption and reft 3 and hath his
influence through the order of angels, whom the Hebrews name Cherubim,
into the fphere of the moon caufing the increafe and decreafe of all things, and
provideth for the genii and keepers of men, and diftributeth them 3 his intel-
ligence is Gabriel, who was the keeper of fofeph,
c
Jojhuay and Daniel.
The tenth name is Adonai Melech, that is, lord and king 3 his numeration is
Malehuth, that is, kingdom and empire, and fignifies a church, the temple
of God, and a gate 3 and hath his influence through the order of Animajlic,
viz. of bleffedfouls, which, by the Hebrews, is called Ifiim, that is, nobles,
lords, and princes 3
they are inferior to the hierarchies, and have their influ-
ences on the fons of men, and give knowledge and the wonderful under-
ftanding of things, alfo induftry and prophecy 3 and the foul of the Meftiah
is prefident amongft them, or the intelligence Merattron, which is called the
firft creature, or the foul of the world, who was the ruler of Mofes.
CHAP.
Part I. CEREMONIAL MAGIC. 39
CHAP V.
OF THE POWER AND VIRTUE OF THE DIVINE NAMES.
GOD himfelf, though he be one only efience, yet hath divers names,
which expound not his divers efiences or deities ; but certain properties flow-
ing from him ; by which names he pours down upon us, and all his creatures,
many benefits ; ten of thofe names we have above defcribed. The Cabalifts,
from a certain text of Exodus, derive feventy-two names, both of the angels
and of God, which they call the name of feventy-two letters and Schemham-
phores, that is, the expository. From thefe therefore, befides thofe which we
have reckoned up before, is the name of the divine efience, Eheia, rrnK,
which Plato tranflates <ui'» from hence they call God tow, others ouv, that is,
the Being. Hu, xin, is another name revealed to Efay, fignifying the abyfs
of the godhead, which the Greeks tranflate tuvtw, the Latins, himfelf the
fame. Efch, itw, is another name received from Mofes, which foundeth fire,
and is the name of God }.Na, nj, is to be invocated in perturbations and
troubles. There is alfo the name Ja, rv, and the name Elion, jvty, and the
name Macom, tapia, the name Caphu,
nos, the name Innon, pv, and the name
Emeth, ton, which is interpreted truth, and is the feal of God ; and there
are two other names, Zur, mv, and Aben, pN, both of thefe fignify a folid
work, and one of them exprefleth the Father with the Son ; and many
names we have placed in the fcale of numbers ; and many names of God
and the angels, are extracted out of the Holy Scriptures by our Ca-
bala, and the Notarian and Gimetrian arts, where many words retrained by
certain of their letters, make up one name ; or one name difperfed by each of
its letters, fignifies or renders more. Sometimes they are gathered from the
heads of words, as the the name Agla, n*?jn, from this verfe of the Holy
Scripture, viz. oiND^yV naunnx, that is, the Mighty God for ever. In like
manner the name Iaia, n>n’, from this verfe, viz. -irmniiT wn^Nmrr, that is*
God our God is one God in like manner the name Java, wn', from
this
40 THE CABALA i OR, Book It
this verfe, “iftcrri *n', that is, let there be light and there was light : in like
manner the name Ararita, nj-v-ijok, from this verfe, -inN'itmiran innnN
“ihk, that is, one principal of his unity, one beginning of his individuality,
his viciffitude is one thing ; and this name Hacaba.
, Nipn, is extracted from
this verfe, NimMtpnprv., the holy and blelfed One ; in like manner this name
Jefuy w, is found in the heads of thefe two verfes, viz, that is,
until the Meffiah fhall come ; and the other verfe, miDt» p*, that is, his
name abides till the end. Thus alfo is the name Amen, jon, extracted from
this verfe, pro ffi’D’j-iN, that is, the Lord is the faithful King. Sometimes thefe
names are extracted from the ends of words, as the fame Amen from this
verfe, D'yiznm that is, the wicked not fo j
but the letters are tranfpofed :
fo, by the final letters of this verfe, nopty that is, to me what ? or what
is his name ? is found the name Tetragrammaton : in all thefe a letter is put for
a word, and a letter extracted from a word, either from the beginning, end,
or where you pleafe ; and fometimes thefe names are extracted from all the
letters, one by one, even as thofe feven-two names of God are extracted from
thofe three verfes of Exodus, beginning from thefe three words, d> wt tyDr*,
the firft and the laft verfes being written from the right to the left j but the
middle contrariwife, from the left to the fight, as we fhall fhew hereafter
and fo fometimes a word is extracted from a word, or a name from a name,
by the tranfpofition of letters, as Mefia, rvtyo, from Ifmah, now*, and Michael
from Malachi, onVd ; but fometimes by changing the alphabet, which the
Cabalifts call Ziruph, *p*v2f ; fo from the name Tetragrammaton, mrr, are
drawn forth yssn, Maz-Paz, inn, Kuzu. Sometimes, by reafon of the equa-
lity of the numbers, names are changed, as Merattron p-iDton, pro Sadai, nw,
for both of them make three hundred and fourteen ; fo Jiai, »«*’, and El,
are equal in number, for both make thirty-one ; and thefe are the hidden
fecrets, concerning which it is moft difficult to judge, or to deliver a perfect
fcience ; neither can they be underftood or taught in any other language but
the Hebrew. Therefore, thefe facred words have not their power in magical
operations from themfelves, as they are words, but from the occult divine
powers working by them in the mind of thofe who by faith adhere to them.
We
This SigiL against all dangers
Sc mischiefs ofevil Spirits ScMen
Theforepart
The hinderpm
•-This Seal vs used as a/preservative
against aZl casieahties, dangers Sc
mischief, icing ivarre engraven onpure
(Sold it secures the bearer froraadevils.
This is to he engrevv en on-
the other side
.
l\ Barrett- Jh.v, i'Dd
,
If, tsd/pithi/'cv.lp .
Pub. by Ij ackmorloTi Allen, lc Co
Part I. CEREMONIAL MAGIC, 41
We will here deliver unto thee a facred feal, efficacious againft any difeafe
of man, or any griefs whatfoever, in whofe fore-fide are the four-fquared
names of God, fo fubordinate to one another in a fquare, that, from the
higheft to the lowed:, thofe molt holy names or feals of the godhead do arife,
whofe intention is infcribed in the circumference ; but on the backlide is in-
fcribed the /even-lettered name Araritha, and his interpretation is written
about, viz. the verfe from which it is extracted, even as you may fee in the
annexed plate, where A reprefents the former part, B the hinder ; but all
this muft be done in moft pure gold, or virgin parchment, pure, clean, and
unfpotted ; alfo with ink made of the frnoke of confecrated wax-lights, or
incenfe and holy water. The operator muft be purified and cleanfed, and
have an infallible hope, a conftant faith, and have his mind lifted up to the
Moft High God, if he would furely obtain this divine power.
Now, againft the depredations of evil fpirits and men, and what dangers
foever, either of journies, waters, enemies, arms, &c. in the fame manner
as is above faid, thefe characters on the one fide vnm, and thefe on the
other may, which are the beginnings and ends of the five firft verfes of
Genejis, and reprefentation of the creation of the world ; and, by this liga-
ture, they fay that a man ffiall be free from all mifchiefs, if that he firmly
believes in God, the Creator of all things.
Now thefe being done on a fmall plate of gold, as before defcribed,
(will be found to have the effeCt above mentioned) ; the figure of which you
may likewife fee in the annexed plate, fig. C and D, where C fhows the for-
mer part, and B the hinder.
Now let no one diftruft or wonder, that facred words and divine names
applied outwardly, can effeCt wonderful things, feeing, by them, the Al-
mighty created the heavens and the earth j for there is no name of God
amongft us (according to Mofes the Egyptian) which is not taken from his
works, befides the name Tetragrammaton, which is holy, fignifying the
fubftance of the Creator in a pure fignification.
Book II. G CHAP.
42 THE CABALA J OR, Book II.
/
CHAP. VI,
— i
'
1 '
- V
" “ N
OF INTELLIGENCES AND SPIRITS, AND OF THE THREE'FOLD KIND OF THEM, AND' OF THEIR'
DIFFERENT NAMES, AND OF INFERNAL AND SUBTERRANEAL SPIRITS.
NOW, confequently, we mult difcourfe of intelligences, fpirits, and an-
gels. An intelligence is an intelligible fubftance, free from all grofs and
putrifying mafs of a body, immortal, infenfible, aflifting all, having influ-
ence over all ; and the nature of all intelligences, fpirits, and angels is the
fame. But I call angels here, not thofe whom we ufually call devils, but
fpirits fo called from the propriety of the word, as it were, knowing, under-
ftanding, and wife. But of thefe, according to the tradition of magicians,
there are three kinds ; the firft of which we call fuper-celeftial, and minds
altogether feparated from a body, and, as it were, intellectual lpheres wor-
fhipping one only God, as it were, their molt firm and liable unity or centre.
Wherefore they even call them Gods, by reafon of a certain participation of the
Divinity, for they are always full of God. Thefe are only about God, and
rule not the bodies of the world, neither are they fitted for the government of
inferior things, but infufe the light received from God unto the inferior
orders, and diftribute every one’s duty to all of them. The celeftial intel-
ligences do next follow thefe in the fecond order, which they call worldy an-
gels, viz. being appointed, befides the divine worfhip for the fpheres of the
world, and for the government of every heaven and ftar ; whence they are
divided into fo many orders as there are heavens in the world, and as there
are ftars in the heavens. And they called thefe Saturnine, who rule the heaven
of Saturn, and Saturn himfelf ; others Jovial, who rule the heaven of
Jupiter and Jupiter himfelf ; and in like manner they name different an-
gels, as well for the name as the virtue of the other liars ; and becaufe the
old aftrologers maintained fifty-five motions, therefore they invented fo many
intelligences or angels. They placed alfo in the Harry heaven angels who
might
Part I. CEREMONIAL MAGICr 43
might rule the figns, triplicities, decans, quinaries, degrees and liars ; for al-
though the fchool of Peripatetics affign one only intelligence to each of the
orbs of the liars, yet feeing every liar and fmall part of the heaven hath its
proper and different power and influence, it is neceflary alfo that it have its
ruling intelligence which may confer power and operate ; therefore they have
ellablilhed twelve princes of the angels, who rule the twelve figns of the
zodiac, and thirty-fix who may rule fo many decans, and feventy-two who may
rule fo many quinaries of heaven, and the tongues of men and nations, and four
who may rule the triplicities and elements, and feven governors of the whole
world, according to the feven planets ; and they have given to all of them names
andfeals, which they call characters, and uled them in their invocations, incan-
tations and carvings, defcribing them in the inllruments of their operations,
images,
plates,
glajjes, rings,
papers, wax-lights, and fuch like. And if at any
time they operated for the fun, they invocated by the name of the fun and
by the names of folar angels, and foofthe reft. Thirdly, they ellablilhed an-
gels as minifters for the difpofing of thofe things which are below, which Origen
called certain invifible powers, to which thofe things which are on earth are
committed to be difpofed of. For fometimes, they being vifible to none do
diredt our journies and all our bufinefs, are often prefent at battles, and, by
fecret helps, do give the defired fuccefs to their friends ; for, at their plea-
fure, they can procure profperity, and inflidt adverfity. In like manner they
diltribute thefe into more orders, fo as fome are fiery, fome watery, fome aerial,
fome terrellrial ; which four fpecies of angels are computed according to the
four powers of the celellial fouls, viz. the mind, reafon, imagination, and
vivifying and moving nature ; hence the fiery follow the mind of the ce-
lellial fouls, whence they concur to the contemplation of more fublime
things ; but the aerial follow reafon, and favour the rational faculty, and, af-
ter a certain manner, feparate it from the fenfitive and vegetative ; therefore
it ferves for an adtive life, as the fiery the contemplative but the watery
follow the imagination, ferve for a voluptuous life ; the earthly following nature,
favours vegetable nature. Moreover, they diftinguifh alfo this kind of angels
into faturnine and jovial, according to the names of the liars and the hea
G 2 vens
44 THE CABALA,* OR, Book II.
vens ; farther, fome are oriental, fome occidental, fome meridional, fome
feptentrional. Moreover, there is no part of the world deflitute of the pro-
per abidance of thefe angels, not becaufe they are alone, but becaufe they
reign there efpecially j for they are every where, although fome efpe-
cially operate, and have their influence in this place, fome elfewhere
neither truly are thefe things to be underflood as though they were fub-
jecft to the influence of the ftars, but as they have correfpondence with
the heaven above the world, from whence efpecially all things are diredted,
and to which all things ought to be conformable ; whence, as thefe angels
are appointed for diverfe ftars, fo alfo for diverfe places and times ; not that
they are limited to any place or time, neither by the bodies which they are-
appointed to govern, but becaufe the Divine Wifdom hath fo decreed ; there-
fore they favour more, and patronize thofe bodies, places, times, ftars : fo
they have called fome diurnal, fome nodturnal, others meridional. In like
manner fome are called woodmen, fome mountaineers, fome fleldmen, fome
domeftics : hence the gods of the woods, country gods, fatyrs, familiars,,
fairies of the fountains, fairies of the woods, nymphs of the fea, the Naiades,
Nereides, Dryades, Pierides, Hamadryades, Patumides, Hinnides Agapte,
Pales, Parcades, Dodon®, Fanila?, Levernae, Parcae, Mufes, Aonides, Cafta-
lides, Heliconides, Pegaiides, Meonides, Phebiades, Camenae, the graces,
the genii, hobgobblins, and fuch like ; whence the vulgar call them fape-
riors, fome the demi-gods and godefles : fome of thefe are fo familiar and ac-
quainted with men, that they are even affedted with human perturbations
by whofe inftrudlions Plato thinks that men do oftentimes wonderful things,
even as by the inflrudtion of men fome beafls which are moft nigh to us,
apes, dogs, elephants, do often ftrange things above their fpecies ; and they
who have written the chronicles of the Danes and Norwegians, do teftify
that fpirits of feveral kinds in thofe regions are fubjedt to men’s commands
moreover, fome of thefe appear corporeal and mortal, whofe bodies are be-
gotten and die ;
yet to be long-lived is the opinion of the Egyptians and Pla-
tonifts, and efpecially approved by Proclus, Plutarch alfo, and Demetrius the
philofopher, and iEmilianus the rhetorician, affirm the fame ; therefore of
thefe
Vejsels of Wrath
The Incubus
Utnorhcc/. /r FBarrett.
/tncrrav cj iv j? orl
Reads ofEvil
Jh°2-
Part I'. CEREMONIAL MAGIC. 45
thefe fpirits of the third kind, as the opinion o^he Platonift is, they report
that there are fo many legions as there are ftars in the heaven, and fo many
fpirits in every legion as in heaven itfelf ftars : but there are, (as Athanaftus
delivers,) who think, that the true number of the good fpirits is according to
the number of men, ninety- nine parts, according to the parable of the hun-
dred fheep ; others think only nine parts, according to the parable of the ten
goats ; others fuppofe the number of the angels equal-with men, becaufe it
is written, he that hath appointed the bounds of the people according to the
number of the angels of God ; and concerning their number many have written
many things ; but the latter theologians, following the mafters of the fentences,
Aujlm and Gregory, ealily refolve themfelves, faying, that the number of the
good angels tranfcendeth human capacity ; to the which, on the contrary, innu-
merable unclean fpirits do correfpond, there being fo many in the inferior world
as pure fpirits in the fuperior ; and fome divines affirm that they have receiv-
ed this by revelation. Under thefe they place a kind of fpirits fubterraneous
or obfcure, which the Platonifts call angels that failed, revengers of wicked-
nefs and ungodlinefs, according to the decree of the divine juftice; and they call
them evil angels and wicked fpirits, becaufe they often annoy and hurt, even of
their own accord. Of thefe alfo they reckon more legions ; and, in like manner,
diftinguifhing them according to the names of the ftars and elements, and parts
of the world, they place over them kings, princes, and rulers ; and the names
of them: of thefe, four moft mifchievous kings rule over the other, accord-
ing to the four parts of the world. Under thefe many more princes of
legions govern, and many private officers ; hence the Gorgones, Statenotfe,
the Furies; hence Ti/ipbone, Aleffio, Megcera, Cerberus. They of this kind
of fpirits. Porphyry fays, inhabit a place nigh the earth, yea within the earth
itfelf ; there is no mifchief which they dare not commit ; they have altogether
a violent and hurtful nature, therefore they plot, and endeavour violent and
fudden mifchiefs ; and when they make incurfions, fometimes they lie hid,
and fometimes offer open violence, and are very much delighted in all fuch
things done wickedly and mifchievoufly.
C HAP.
46 THE CABALA j OR,
I
Book XI.
CHAP. VII.
or THE ORDER OF EVIL SPIRLTS, AND THEIR FALL, AND DIFFERENT NATURES-.
THERE are fome of the fchool of theologians, who diftribute the evil
fpirits into nine degrees, as contrary to the nine orders of angels. Therefore,
the firftof thefe, which are called falfe gods, who, ufurping the name of God,
would be worlhipped for gods, and require facrifices and adorations; as that
devil who faid to Chrift, “ If thou wilt fall down and worship me, I will give
thee all thefe things,” fhewing him all the kingdoms of the world ; and the
prince of thefe is he who faid, I will afcend above the height of the clouds,
and will be like to the Molt High, who is called Beelzebub, that is, an old god.
In the fecond place, follows the fpirits of lies, of which fort was he who went
forth, and was a lying fpirit in the mouth of the prophet of Ahab ; and the
prince of thefe is the ferpent Pytho, from whence Apollo is called Pythius, and
that woman a Pythonefs, or witch, in Samuel, and the other in the gofpel,
who had Pytho in her belly. Therefore, thefe kind of devils join themfelvesto
the oracles, and delude men by divinations and predictions, fo that they may be
deceived. In the third order, are the velfels of iniquity, which are called velfels
of wrath : thefe are the inventors of evil things, and all wicked arts; as in Plato,
that devil Theutus, who taught cards and dice ; for all wickednefs, malice, and
deformity, proceeds from thefe, of which in Genejis, in the benedictions of
Simeon and Levi, Jacob faid, “ velfels of iniquity are in their habitations, into
their counfel let not my foul come;” which the Pfahmft calls velfels of death,
Ifaiah, velfels of fury ; and ‘Jq&emiah, velfels of wrath ; Ezekiel, velfels of de-
troying and flaying; and their prince is Belial, which flgnifies, without a yoke,
and difobedient, a prevaricator, and an apoftate ; of whom Paul to the Corinthi-
ans fays, “ what agreement has Chrilt with Belial ?” Fourthly, follow the re-
vengers of evil, and their prince is Afmodeus, viz. caufing judgment. After
thefe, in the fifth place, come the deluders, who imitate miracles, and ferve
conjurers
UJlklS.
TkeSfiint
.AnticA rut
Pub. by Lackin/rfon &-Allen,. R. Griffith J:uht.
"Harrell Del
Part I. CEREMONIAL MAGIC. 47
conjurers and witches, and feduce the people by their miracles, as the ferpent
feduced Eve, and their prince is Satan, of whom it is written in the Revelation,
** that he feduces the whole world, doing great figns, and caufing fire to defcend
from heaven in the fight of men feducing the inhabitants of the earth by
thefe figns, which are given him to do.” Sixthly, the aerial powers offer
themfelves and join themfelves to thunder and lightning, corrupting the air,
caufing peftilencies, and other evils ; in the number of which are the four
.angels of whom the the Revelations fpeak, to whom it is given to hurt the
earth and the fea, holding the four winds from the four corners of the earth ;
and their prince is called Meririm : he is the meridian devil, a boiling fpirit,
a devil raging in the fouth, whom Pauly to the Epbejians, calls “ the prince of
the power of the air, and the fpirit which works in the children of difobe-
dience.” The feventh manfion the- furies poffefs, who are powers of evil,
difcords, war,, and devaluation j whofe name in the Revelation is called in
Greek, Apollyon in the Hebrew, Abaddon, that is, destroying and wafting.
In the eighth place are the accufers or inquifitors^ whofe prince is Aftaroth,
that is, a fearcher out ; in the Greek language he is called Diabolus, that is,
an accuSer or calumniator ; whicli in the Revelation is called the “ accufer of
the brethren, accufing them night and day before the face of God.” More-
over, the tempters and enfnarers have the laft place ; one of which is
prefent with every man, which we call the evil genius, and their prince is
Mammon, which is interpreted covetoufnefs. But we of the Cabala unani-
moufly maintain that evil fpirits do wander up and down this inferior world,
enraged againft, all whom we call devils ; of whom Aujlin, in his firSt
book of the Incarnation of the Word, to Januarius, fays, concerning the devils
ancj his angels contrary to virtues, the ecclefiaftical preachers have taught that
there are fuch things, but what they are, and who they are, he has not clear
enough expounded : yet there is this opinion among them, that this devil
was an angel, and being made an apoftate, perfuaded many of the angels to
fall with him, who to this day are called his angels. Greece, notwithstanding,
thinks not that thefe are damned,^ior that they are all purpofely evil ; but
that from the creation of the world the difpenfation of things is ordained by
this-
Book If.
48 THE CABALA ; OR-,
this means, that the tormenting of finful fouls is made over to them. The
other theologians fay, that no devil was created evil, but that they were
driven and cad; out of heaven from the orders of good angels, for their pride-;
whofe fall not only our and the Hebrew theologians but alfo the Ajfyrians,
Arabians, Egyptians, and Greeks, do confirm by their tenets. Pherycies, the
AJJ'yrian,,
deferibes the fall of the devils ; and Ophis,
that is, the develifh
ferpent, was the head of that rebelling army ; Trifmegiftus fings the fame
fall, in his Pimander; .and Homer, under the name of Ararus, in his verfes
and Plutarch, in his Difcourfe on Ufury, fignifies that Empedocles knew
that the fall of the devils was in this manner ; the devils themfelves often
confefs their fall. They being caft out into this valley of mifery, fome that
are near to 11s wander up and down in this obfeure air; others inhabit lakes,
rivers, and feas ; others the earth, and terrify earthly things, and invade thofe
who dig wells and metals, caufe the gaping of the earth, to ftrike together
the foundations of the mountains, and vex not only men but alfo other crea-
tures ; fome being content with laughter and delufion only, do contrive rather
to weary men than to hurt them ; fome heightening themfelves to the length
of a giant’s body, and again fhrinking themfelves down to the fmallnefs of pig-
mies, and changing themfelves into different forms, to difturb men with vain
fear ;
others ftudy lies and blafphemies, as we read of one in third book of
Kings, faying, “ I will go forth and be a lying fpirit in the mouth of all the
prophets of Ahab.” But the worfl fort of devils are thofe who lie in wait,
and overthrow paffengers in their journies, and rejoice in wars and effufion of
blood, and afflidt men with moft cruel ftripes : we read of fuch in Matthew,
“ for fear of whom no man dared pafs that way.” Moreover, the Scripture
reckons up nodiurnal, diurnal, and meridional devils ; and deferibes other
fpirits of wickenefs by different names, as we read in Ifaiah of fatyrs, fcreech-
owls, firens, ftorks,
*
owls ; and in the Pfalms, of afps, bafilifks, lions,
dragons ; and in the Gofpel, we read of fcorpions, and Mammon, and the
prince of this world, and rulers of darknefs, of all whom Beelzebub is the
prince, whom the Scripture calls the prince of wickednefs.
CHAP.
F.Darntl Del.
R Griffith Sculp,-
DlStaTOlk-
Powers oj Evzl
ads of Evil Damons
%-jr
%
Part L CEREMONIAL MAGIC. 49
CHAP. VIII.
W THE ANNOYANCE OF EVIL SPIRITS, AND THE PRESERVATION WE HAVE FROM
GOOD SPIRITS.
IT is the opinion of divines, that all evil fpirits are of that nature, that
they hate God as well as man ; therefore Divine Providence has fet over us
more pure fpirits, with whom he hath entrufted us, as with fhepherds and
governors, that they fhould daily help us, and drive away evil fpirits from us,
and curb and reftrain them, that they fhould not hurt us, as they would
otherwife ; as is read in Tobias, that Raphael did apprehend the demon called
AJmodeus, and bound him in the wildernefs of the Upper Egypt. Of
thefe, Hefiod fays, there are 30,000 of Jupiter’s immortal fpirits living on the
earth, who are the keepers ofmortal men, who, jthat they might obferve juftice
and merciful deeds, having clothed themfelves with ajr, go to and fro every
where on the earth. For there is no potentate could be fafe, nor any woman
continue uncorrupted, no man in this vale of ignorance could come to the
end appointed to him by God, if good fpirits did not fecure us, or if evil
fpirits fhould be permitted to fatisfy the wills of men; as therefore among
the good there is a proper keeper or protestor deputed to every one, cor-
roborating the fpirit of the man to good ; fo of evil fpirits, there is fent forth
an enemy ruling over the flefh and defire thereof; and the good fpirit fights
for us as a preferver againft the enemy and flefh, now man, between thefe
contenders is in the middle, and left in the hand of his own counfel to
whom he will give vidtory : we cannot therefore accufe angels, or deny free-
will, if they do not bring the nations entrufted to them to the knowledge of
the true God and true piety, but fuffer .them to fall into errors and perverfe
worfhip ; it is to be imputed to themfelves, who have, of their own
accord, declined from the right path, adhering to the fpir-its of error, giv-
ing vidtory to the devil : for it is in the hand of man to adhere to whom he
Book II. H pleafes.
50 THE CABALA 5 OR, Book II.
pleafes, and overcome whom he will ; by whom if once the devil be over-
come, he is made his fervant, and being overcome, cannot fight any more
with another, as a wafp that has loft his fting. To which opinion Origen
affents, in his book Periarchon, concluding that the faints fight againft evil
fpirits, and, overcoming, do leflen their army ; neither can he that is over-
come by any moleft any more. As therefore there is given to every man a
good lpirit, fo there is given to every man an evil diabolical' fpirit, whereof each
feeks an union with our fpirit, and endeavours to attract it to itfelf, and to be
mixed with it, as wine with water ; the good indeed, through all good
works conformable to itfelf, change us into angels by uniting us y as it is
written of John the Baptift in Malachi, “ behold I fend my angel before
thy face of which tranfmutation and union it is written elfewhere, he that
adheres to God is made one fpirit with him. An evil fpirit alio, by evil
works, ftudies to make us conformable to itfelf, and unite us, as C.hrijl lays
of Judas> “ Have not I chofen twelve, and one of you is a devil ?” And
this is that which Hermes fays, when a fpirit hath influence on the loul of man,
he fcatters the feed of his own notion, whence fuch a foul, being lown with
feeds, and full of fury, brings forth thence wonderful things, and whatfo-
ever are the offices of fpirits : for when, a good fpirit hath Influence on a holy-
foul, it doth exalt it to the light of wifdom ; but an evil fpirit being tranf-
fufed into a wicked loul, doth ftir it up to theft, to man-flaughter, to luff,
and whatfoever are the offices of evil fpirits. Good fpirits, as Jamblicus
fays, purge the fouls moft perfectly, and Ibme beftow upon us other good
things ; they being prefect, do give health to the body, virtue to the foul, and
fecurity ; what is mortal in us they take away, cherilh heat, and make it
more efficacious to life } and, by an harmony, do always infufe light into an
intelligible mind. But whether there be many keepers of a man, or one
alone, theologians differ among themfelves : we think there are more, the
prophet laying, “ he hath given his angels a charge concerning thee, that
they Ihould keep thee in all thy ways,” which, as Hierome fays, is to be
underftood of any man, as well as of Chrift. All men, therefore, are go-
verned by the mimftry of different angels, and are brought to any degree
Partl. CEREMONIAL MAGIC. 51
of virtue, deferts, and dignity, who behave themfelves worthy of them ;
but they who carry themfelves unworthy of them, are depofed and thruft
down, as well by evil fpirits as good fpirits, unto the lowed; degree of mifery,
as their evil merits fhall require j but they that are attributed to the fub-
limer angels, are preferred before other men ; for angels having the care
of them, exalt them, and fubjedt others to them by a certain occult
power, which, although neither of them perceive, yet he that is fubjedted
feels a certain yoke of prefidency, of which he cannot eafily quit himfelf ;
yea, he fears and reverences that power, which the fuperior angels make to
flow upon inferiors, and with a certain terror bring the inferiors into a fear
of prefidency. This did Homer feem to be fenfible of, when he fays, that
the Mufes begot of Jupiter, did always, as infeparable companions, affifl: the
kings begot of Jupiter, fpeaking figuratively, who by them were made vene-
rable and magnificent : fo we read that M. Antoninus. being formerly joined
in Angular friendfhip with Odtavius Augufius, were accuftomed always to
play together ; but when, as always, Augustus always went away conqueror, a
certain magician counfelled M. Antoninus thus : “ O Anthony, what dolt
thou do with that young man ? Shun and avoid him, for although thou art
older than he, and art more fkilful than he, and art better defcended than he,
and hath endured the wars of more emperors, yet thy Genius doth much
dread the Genius of this young man, and thy fortune flatters his fortune ;
unlefs thou lhalt lhun him, it feems wholly to decline to him.” Is not the prince
like other men ? how fhould other men fear and reverence him, unlefs a divine
terror fhould exalt him, and ftriking a fear into others, deprefs them, that they
fhould reverence him as a prince ? Wherefore we mufl endeavour, that, being
purified by doing well, and following fublime things, and choofing opportune
times and feafons, we be entrufled or committed to a degree of fublimer and
more potent angels, who taking care of us, we may defervedly be preferred
before others*
THE CABALA y OK Book IL
S 2
CHAP. IX.
THAT THERE IS A THREEFOLD KEEFER OF MAN, AND FROM WHENCE EACH OF' THEfcT-
EROCEED,.
EVERY man hath a threefold good demon as a proper keeper or pre—
ferver, the one whereof is holy, another of the nativity, and the other of pro-
fession. The holy demon is one, according to the dodtrine of the Egyptians
affigned to the rational foul, not from the liars or planets, but from 2u
fupernatural caufe—from God himfelf,. the prefident of demons, being
univerfal and above nature. This diredts the life of the foul, and does always
put good thoughts into the mind, being always adtive in illuminating us*,
although we do not always take notice of it j but when we are purified and;
live peaceably, then it is perceived by us, then it does, as it were, fpeak
with us, and communicates its voice to us, being before filerit, and Studies
daily to bring us to a facred perfedtion. So it falls out that fome profit more
in any fcience, or art, or office, in a lefs time and with little pains, when
another takes much pains and ftudies hard, and all in vain j and although no
fcience, art or virtue, is to be contemned, yet that you may live profperoufly*,
carry on thy affairs happily, in the firfb place, know thy good genius, and his
nature, and what good the celeftial difpofition promifes thee, and God the dif-
tributer of all thefe, who distributes to each as he pleafes, and follow the be-
ginnings of thefe, profefs thefe, be converfant in that virtue to which the moft.
high distributer doth elevate and lead thee ; who made Abraham excel in juf-
tice and clemency, lfaac with fear, "Jacob with Strength, Mofes with meeknefs
and miracles, JoJhua in war, Phineas in zeal, David in religion and vidtory*.
Solomon in knowledge and fame, Peter in faith, John in charity, Jacob in devo-
tion, Thomas in prudence, Magdalen in contemplation, Martha in officiouf-
nefs. Therefore in what virtue you think you can moll: eafily be a proficient
in, nfe diligence to attain to the height thereof, that you may excel in one*
when
Fart I. CEREMONIAL MAGIC, S3
when in many you cannot, but in the reft endeavour to be as great a proficient
&s you can ; but if thou fhalt have the overfeers of nature and religion agreea-
ble, thou (halt find a double progrefs of thy nature and profeflion ; but if they
fhall be difagreeing, follow the better, for thou lhalt better perceive at fome
time a preferver of an excellent profeflion then of nativity.
C H A P. X.
THE TONGUE OF ANGELS, AND OF THEIR SPEAKING AMONGST THEMSELVES AND'
WITH US'.
WE might doubt whether angels or demons, fince they are pure fpirits,
ufe any vocal fpeech or tongue among themfelves or to us ; but that Paul, in
fome place fays, “ if I fpeak with the tongue of men or angels;”—but what
their fpeech or tongue is, is much doubted by many.- For many think that if
they ufe any idiom, it is Hebrew, becaufe that was firft of all, and came from
heaven, and was before the confufion of languages in Babylon, in which the
law was given by God the Father, and the gofpel was preached by Chrift the
Son, and fo many oracles were given to the prophets by the Holy Ghoft ; and
feeing all tongues have and do undergo various mutations and corruptions, this
alone does always continue inviolated. Moreover, an evident fign of this opi-
nion is, that though this demon and intelligence do ufe the fpeech of thofe na-
tions with whom they do inhabit, yet, to them who underftand it, they never
fpeak in any idiom but in this alone, viz. Hebrew. But now, how angels fpeak,
it is hid from us, as they themfelves are. Now, to us, that we may fpeak,
a tongue is neceflary with other inftruments ; as the jaws, palate, lips, teeth,
throat, lungs, the afpera arteria, and mufcles of the breaft, which have the be-
ginning of motion from the foul, But if I fpeak at a diftance to another, he
mud
•THE CABALA} OR,
54 Book II.
mud life a louder voice } but, if near, he whifpers in my ear, as if he fhould
be coupled to the hearer, without any noife, as an image in the eye or glafs.
So fouls going out of the body, lb angels, fo demons fpeak ; and what man does
with a fenfible voice, they do by impreffing the conception of the fpeech in
thofe to whom they fpeak after a better manner than if they fhould exprefs it in
an audible voice. So the Platonift fays, that Socrates perceived his demon by
fenfe, indeed, but not of this body, but by the fenfe of the etherial body con-
cealed in this } after which manner Avicen believes the angels were wont to be
feen and heard by the prophets. That inllrument, whatfoever the virtue be,
by which one fpirit makes known to another fpirit what things are in his mind,
is called by the apoftle Paul, the tongue of angels. Yet oftentimes they fend
forth an audible voice, as they that cried at the afcenlion of the Lord, Ye men
of Galilee, why Hand ye here gazing unto th x heaven ? And in the old law they
fpake with divers of the fathers with a fenfible voice } but this never but when
they alfumed bodies. But with what fenfes thefe fpirits and demons hear our
invocations and prayers, and fee our ceremonies, we are altogether ignorant.
For there is afpiritual body of demons every where fenfible by nature, fo that
it touches, fees, hears without any medium, and nothing can be an impediment
to it ;
yet they do not perceive after the fame manner as we do, with different
organs, but haply as fponges drink in water, fo do they all fenlible things
with their body or feme other way unknown to us; neither are all animals en-
dowed with thofe organs, for we know that many want ears, yet we know they
perceive a found, but after what manner we know not.
CHAP.
Part I. CEREMONIAL MAGTCi 55
CHAP. XI.
OF THE NAMES OF SPIRITS, AND THEIR VARIOUS IMPOSITION, AND OF THE SPIRITS THAT
ARE SET OVER THE STARS, SIGNS, CORNERS OF THE HEAVEN, AND THE ELEMENTS.
MANY and different are the names of good and bad fpirits ? but their pro-
per and true names, as thofe of the ftars, are known to God alone, who only
numbers the multitude of ftars, and calls them by their names,, whereof none can
be known by us but by divine revelation ; very few are exprefled to us in fa-
cred writ. But the matters of the Hebrews think, that the names of angels
are impofed on them by Adam, according to that which is written, “ the Lord
brought all things which he had made unto Adam, that he fhould name them,
and as he called any thing, fo the name of it was.” Hence the Hebrew
Mecubals think, together with Magicians and Cabalifts, that it is in the power of
man to impofe names upon fpirits, but of fuch a man only who is dignified and
elevated to this virtue by fome divine gift or facred authority : but becaufe a
name that may exprefs the nature of divinity, or the whole virtue of angelical
effences, cannot be made by any human voice, therefore names for the moft part
are put upon them from their works, fignifying fome certain office or effect
which is required by the quire of fpirits ; which name then, and not otherwife,
obtains efficacy and virtue to draw any fpiritual fubftance from above, or be-
neath, to make any defired effect.
I have feen and known fome writing on virgin parchment the name and
feal of fome fpirit in the hour of the moon, which afterwards he gave to be
devoured by a water-frog, and had muttered over fome verfe j the frog be-
ing let go into the water, rains and fhowers prefently followed. I faw alfo
the fame man infcribing the name of another fpirit with the feal thereof in
the hour of Mars, which was given to a crow, who, being let go, after a verfe
muttered over, there followed from that part of the heaven whither it flew,
lightnings, fhaking, and horrible thunders, with thick [clouds i neither were
thofe.
Book IB
56 THE CAB ALA j OR,
thofe names of fpirits of an unknown tongpe, neither did they fignify any
thing elfe but their offices ; of this kind are the names of thofe angels, Ra-
ziel, Gabrieli Michael, Raphael Haniel, which is as much as to fay the vifion
of God, the virtue of God, the Strength of God, the medicine of God, the
glory of God, In like manner, in the offices of evil demons are read their
names, viz. a player, a deceiver, a dreamer, afornicator, and many fuch like.
So we receive from many of the ancient fathers of the Hebrews the names
of angels fet over the planets and figns ; over Saturn, Zaphiel over Jupi-
ter, Zadkiel-, over Mars, Camael -, over the Sun,
Raphael -, over Venus, Haniel
over Mercury, Michael over the Moon, Gabriel. Thefe are thofe feven fpi-
rits which always ftand before the face of God, to whom is entrufted the dif-
pofing the whole celeftial and terrene kingdoms which are under the moon
for thefe (as the more curious theologians fay) govern all things by a cer-
tain viciffitude of hours, days, and years ; as the aftrologers teach concerning
the planets which they are fet over, which Mercurius Trifmegiftus calls the
feven governors of the world, who, by the heavens as by inftruments, dis-
tribute the influences of all the Stars and figns upon their inferiors. There are
fome who afcribe them to the Stars by names Somewhat differing, faying,
that over Saturn is fet an intelligence called Oriphael, over Jupiter Zachariel,
over Mars Zamael, over the Sun Michael, over Venus Anael, over Mercury
Raphael, over the Moon Gabriel. And every one of thefe governs the world
354 years and four months ; and the government begins from the intelligence
of Saturn afterwards, in order, the intelligences of Venus, Jupiter, Mercury
Mars, the Moon, and the Sun reigns, and the government returns to the Spirit
of Saturn.
Tritemius writ to Maximilian Caefar a Special treatife concerning thefe,
which he that will thoroughly examine may from thence draw great know-
ledge of future times. * Over the twelve figns are fet thefe, viz. over Aries,
Malahidael , over Taurus, Afmodel over Gemini, AmhrieT, over Cancer, Muriel;
over Leo, VerchieT, over Virgo, Hamaliel over Libra, ZUriel ; over Scorpio,
Barchiel over Sagittarius, Advachiel over Capricorn, Hanael; over Aquarius,
Cambiel •, over Pifces, Barchiel. Of thefe fpirits fet over the planets and
figns,
Tritemius on Spirits,
Part L CEREMONIAL MAGIC. "$7
figns, John made mention of in the Revelation, fpeaking of the former in the
beginning ; and the feven fpirits which are in the prefence of the throne of
God, which I find are fet over the feven planets, in the end of the book,
where he defcribes the platform of the heavenly city, faying, thaton the
twelve gates thereof are twelve angels. There are again twenty-eight angels,
who rule in the twenty-eight manfions of the moon, whofe names are thefe
Geniel, Enediel, Anixiel, Azariel, Gabiel, Dirachiel, ScbeHe/, Amnediel, Bar-
bie/, Ardefid, Neciel, Abdizuel, Jazeriel, Ergediel, Atliel, Azeruel, Adrid,
Egibid, Amutiei, Kyriel, Bethnael, Gelid, Requid, AbrinaeZ, Aziel, Tagriel,
Atheniel, Amnixiel. There are alfo four princes of the angels, which are fet
over the four winds, and over the four parts of the world. Michael is
placed over the eaft-wind, Raphael over the weft, Gabriel over the north,
Nariel, who by fome is called Ariel, is over the fouth. There are alfo
afligned to the elements thefe, viz. to the air Cherub, to the water Tharjis,
to the earth Ariel to the fire Seraph. Now every one of thefe fpirits is a
great prince, and has much power and freedom in the dominion of his own
planets and figns, and in their times, years, months, days and hours ; and in
their elements, and parts of the world, and winds. And every one of them
rules over many legions ; and after the fame manner, among evil fpitits, there
are four, who, as moft potent kings, are fet over the reft, according to the
four parts of the world, whofe names are thefe, viz. Urieus, king of the eaft ;
Amaymon, king of the fouth ; Baymon, king of the weft ; Egin, king of the
north ; which the Hebrew doctors perhaps call more rightly thus, Samuel,
Azazel, Azael, and Mahazuel under whom many others rule as princes of
legions and rulers. Likewife there are innumerable demons of private offices.
Moreover the ancient theologians of the Greeks reckon up fix demons, which
they call Telchines, others- Alajlores which bearing ill-will to men, take up
water out of the river Styx with their hands, fprinkle it upon the earth,
whence follow calamities, plagues, and famines ; and thefe are faid to be
Adieus, Megalezius, Ormenus, Lycus, Nicon, Mhnon. But he that defires
to know exa&ly the diftinbt names, offices, places, and times of angels, and
evil demons, let him inquire into the book of Rabbi Sir/ion of the Temples,
and in his book of Lights, and in his treatife of the Greatnefs of Stature,
Book II. I and
THE CABALA ; OR,
58
and in the treatife of the Temples of Rabbi Ifhmael, and in almoft all the-
commentaries of his book of Formation, and he ffiall find it written at large-
concerning them.
CHAP. XII.
..IE CABAL1STS DRAW FORTH THE SACRED NAMES OF ANGELS FROM SACRED WRIT, AND OF
THE SEVENTY-TWO ANGELS, WHO BEAR T.HE NAMES OF GOD; WITH THE TABLES OF- ZIRUFH^,
AND THE COMMUTATIONS OF NAMES AND NUMBERS.
THfeRE are alfo other facred names of good and evil fpirits deputed to
each office of much greater efficacy than the former, which the Cabalifts
draw from facred writ, according to that art which we teach concerning
them ; as alfo certain names of God are drawn forth out' of certain places :
the general rule of thefe is, that wherefoever any thing of divine eflence is
exprefied in the Scripture, from that place the name of God may be gathered ;
but in what place foever in the Scripture the name of God is found exprefied,
then mark what office lies under that name ; wherefoever therefore the Scrip-
ture fpeaks of the office or work of any fpirit, good or bad, from thence the
name of that fpirit, whether good or bad, may be gathered ; this unalter-
able rule being obferved, that of good fpirits we receive the names of good
fpirits, of evil the names of evil : and let us not confound black with white,
nor day with night, nor light with darknefs, which, by thefe verfes as by
an example, is manifefi: :
“ Let them be as dufl before the face of the wind ; and let the angel of the
Lord fcatter them : let their ways be darknefs and flippery and let the angel
of the Lord purfiie them.”
nrHmrt* nrr poa.w
EDDT7 nirv nip^> p^m *pn Dm-fir
in the xxxvth Pfalm with the Hebrews, but with us, the xxxivth ; of
which the names of thofe angels are drawn, Midael,
and !?ntd Miriael
_ of
Part I. CEREMONIAL MAGIC, 59
of the order of warriors ; fo of that verfe, “ thou JhaltJet over him the wicked,
and Satan fhall Jiand at his right-hand out of Pfalm cix. with the He-
brews, but with the Latins, cviii.
wo* pirn jmn vby ‘lpsn
is extracted the name of the evil fpirit Scbii, >y-w, which fignifies a fpirit
that is a worker of engines. There is a certain text in Exodus contained
in three verfes, whereof every one is written with feventy-two letters, be-
ginning thus the hrft Vajifa, yon, the fecond Vajabo, ton, the third Vajot,
o»i ; which are extended into one line, viz. the firft and the third from the
left-hand to the right, but the middle in a contrary order, beginning from
the right to the left, is terminated on the left-hand ; then each of the three
letters being fubordinate the one to the other, make one name, which are
feventy-two names, which the Hebrews call Schemhamphorce, to which if the
divine name El bx or Jah nir be added, they produce feventy-two trifyllable
names of angels, whereof every one carries the great name of God, as it is
written, “ my angel fhall go before thee ; obferve him, for my name is in
him.” And thefe are thofe that are fet over the feventy-two celeftial qui-
naries, and fo many nations and tongues, and joints of man’s body, and co-
operate with the feventy-two feniors of the fynagogue, and fo many difciples
of Chrift : and their names, according to the extraction which the Cabalifts
make, are manifeft in the following table, according to the manner which we
have mentioned.
Now there are many other ways of making Schemhamphorce out of thofe
verfes ; as when all three are written in a right order, one after the other,
from the right to the left, belides thofe which are extracted by the tables of
Ziruph, and the tables of commutations, of which we made mention of be-
fore. Becaufe thefe tables ferve for all names, as divine, fo angelical, we
fhall therefore fubjoin them to this chapter.
Thefe are the feventy-two angels, bearing the name of God, Schemham-
phorce.
For the tables, &c. fee the annexed Plates, No, i, 2, 3, 4.
I 2 C HAP.
6o T«£ CABALA ; OR, Bookir;
chap. xnr.
OF FINDING OUT THE NAMES OF SPIRITS AND GENII, FROM THE DISPOSITION OP THS'
CELESTIAL BODIES.
THE ancient magicians taught an art of finding out the name of a fpirit
to any defired effedt, drawing it from the difpofition of the heavens j as, for
example, any celeftial harmony being propofed to thee, to make an image,
or a ring, or any other Work to be done under any. conEellation, if thou wilt
find out the fpirit that is the ruler of that work, the figure of the heaven,
being eredted, caft forth letters in their number and order, from the degree
of the afcendant, according to the fuccefiion of figns through each degree, by
filling the whole circle of the heavens ; then thofe letters which fall into the
places of the Ears, the aid of which you would ufe, being according to the
number and power of thofe Ears, marked without into number and order,,
make the name of a good fpirit. But if thou wilt do fo from the beginning
of a degree falling againji the progrefs of the figns, the refulting fpirit fhall
be evil. By this art feme of the Hebrews and Chaldean maEers teach that
the nature and name of any genius maybe found out.; as for example, the
degree of the afcendant of any one's nativity being known, and the other
corners of the heaven being co-equated, then let that which had the moE
dignities of planets in thofe four corners, which the Arabians call Almutez,
be firE obferved among the reE ; and according to that in the fecond place,
that which fhall be next to it in the number of dignities, and fo in order the
reE of them, which obtain any dignity in the aforefaid corners;
This order being ufed, you may know the true place . and degree of them in
the heavens, beginning from the degree of the afcendant through each degree,
according to the order of figns, to caE twenty-two of the letters of the He-
brews ; then what letters fhall fall into the places of the aforefaid Ears, being
marked and difpofed according to the order found out above in the Ears, and
rightly
CEREMONIAL MAGIC. 6
I.
rightly joined together according to the rules of the Hebrew tongue, make the
name of a genius ; to which, according to the cuEom, fome monofyliable
name of Divine Omnipotence, viz. El or Jah, is fubjoined. But if the call-
ing of the letters be made from an angle of the falling, and againfl the fuccef-
Eon of the figns, and the letters which lhail fall in the Nadir (that is the
oppofite point) of the aforefaid Ears be after that order, as are faid, joined
together, fhall make the name of an evil genius.
But the Chaldeans proceed another way, for they take not the Almutez of
the angles but the Almutez of the eleventh houfe, and do all things as has been
faid. Now they find out an evil genius from the Almutez of the angle of the
twelfth houfe, which they call an evil fpirit, calling from the degree of the
falling againft the progrefs of the figns.
e h a p. xiv:
Ot THE CALCULATING ART OF IUCH NAMES BY THE TRADITION OF CABAL1STS.
THERE is yet another art of thefe kind of names, which they call calcu-'
latory ; and it is made by the following tables, by entering with fome facred,
divine, or angelical name, in the column of letters defcending, by taking thofe
letters which thou lhalt find in the common angles' under their Ears and figns,
which being reduced into order, the name of a good fpirit is made of the nature
of that Ear or fign under which thou didE enter ; but if thou lhalt enter in the
column afcending, by taking the common angles above the Ears and lip-ns
marked in the loweE line, the name of an evil fpirit is made. And thefe are
the names of fpirits of any order of heaven miniEering, as of good, fo of bad,
which yon may after this manner multiply into nine names of fo many orders ;
inafmuchas you may, by entering with one name, draw forth another of a fpirit
of
6 2 THE CABALA ; OR, Book IL
of a fuperior order out of the fame, as well of a good as a bad one ;
yet the be-
ginning of this calculation depends upon the names of God ; for every word
hath a virtue in magic, inafmuch as it depends on the word of God, and is thence
framed. Therefore we muft know that every angelical name mud: proceed
from fome primary name of God. Therefore angels are faid to bear the name
of God, according to that which is written, “ becaufe my name is in him. ;”
therefore that the names of good angels may be difcerned from the names of bad,
there is wont oftentimes to be added fome name of Divine Omnipotence, as Elt
or On, or Jab, or Jod, and to be pronounced together with it : and becaufe Jah
is a name of beneficence, and Jod the name of a deity, therefore thefe two
names are put only to the names of angels ; but the name El, becaufe it imports
power and virtue, is therefore added, not only to good but bad fpirits ; for nei-
ther can evil fpirits either fubfift or do any thing without the virtue of El, God.
But we mull know that common angles of the fame ftar and fign are to be
taken, unlefs entrance be made with a mixt name, as are the names of genii, and
thofe of which it hath been fpoken in the preceding chapter, which are
made of the difpofitions of the heavens, according to the harmony of divers
ftars. For as often as the table is to be entered with thefe, the common angle
is to be taken under the ftar or fign of him that enters.
There are moreover fome that do fo extend thofe tables that they think alfo
if there be an entrance made with the name of a flar, or office, or any ae-
fired effect, a demon, whether good or bad, ferving to that office or effed
may be drawn out ; upon the fame account they that enter with the proper
name of any perfon can extract the names of the genii under that ftar which
fhall appear to be over fuch a perfon as they ffiall, by his phyfiognomy, or by
the paffions and inclinations of his mind, and by his profeffion and fortune,
know him to be either martial, orfaturnine, orfolary, or of the nature of any
other ftar.
And although fuch kind of primary names have none or little power by their
fignification, yet fuch kind of extracted names, and fuch as are derived from
them, are of very great efficacy; as the rays of the fun colledled in a hollow
jglafs do moft intenfely burn, the fun itfelf being icarce warm.
Now
v/y atcrr?& t/u
*ie, na^me^
ft 7 71 71 ft 7 n 7 ;S n 3 K "3 ft D a 'i
l
7 \ ? t n n N 7 T ft 71 b 71 P i
p 7
1
1
*i
71 *7 V 7 7 1
n X 7 ur a ft
*i
1
sx V n*1
7X >K 7x
'
rr TP 77 7X p 7*1
7 X
s 7*!
PX n1
£
tv
ft
bs
o,
3
s;
tq
ft
i
ft
ft-
ft-
S
V
ft
•
ft
ft
ft
ftv
<*
ft
kft
Ofc
<N
ft‘
N
£
ft
fcj
ft
1
ft-
ft
ft-
ft-
h
ft
ft
ft
ft-
ft-
1-
X
ft
ft.
•
ft
ft*
&
k*
k
ft
ft
ft
ft
•
ftft
h
ftsi
05,
rx
ft
1-
tel
ft
g.
s*
b
r
ft
b
ft
•N
^>
*
7
ft
ft
w
ft-
ft-
n 2 7
*1
1 7 N 7 ID n
n 1
•* n 0 3 . ft
>
L.
7
3 1 n n ft 7 ? i K 7 s n n p *7 P I
7
7 3? 7 7 2 ft t
n n s 71 n 7 n ^ !
? i
:—i.
>•.
i
ft- iv TV
'
n'
1
TV Pfc ft* bs W Sk n n
’Tl 7n bx P'i 7 1
*
ft
1
a
1
w*
ft
55-
^>4
—
h
b
ft-
ft
S '
*1
a
ft
fc'
^S4
S
§
ft
ft
.
1-
h
r«,
r*
ft
ft.
ts
'ft*
ft
ft
o>
ft
ft,
ft
ft
•
ft,
'
5?
ft*
ft
b
£
ftN
ft,
ft
fcq
S1
ft
ft
ft"
bj
ft
ftN,
ftN*
a
s-
5;
i
P i
ft 1
1-
ft*
ft-
. ^
S
ft
ft-
ft
«*
ft
1
ft
1
ft !
ft° 1
ft
ft
ft
ft’
ft-
h
ft
ft
Os
S'
} 3 y n 7 r ft y y ft 1 a 7 i 7 n X |
S
) ft n J 71 1
W 7 N 7 )
n -ft y J
n ft- w i
1 n 7 3
p 7 n 7 y D t
Vx "?N n 1
n'’ 3 S’ 7N ‘IN 7 7
7X 7 1 7*1
n"1
7N 7K 7X 7x n*1
"iX
ft
&
ft
05*
&
3
ft
ft.
ft
s,
f
ft
3
ft
fc*
ft
1
-
fts
ft
n
ft
ft-
b
ft
ft
<s»
TS •
s
ft.
a
ft,
*
ft
ft-
ft
05,
*N,
Co
S
ft-
k
ft
ft,
’ s>
s;
ft
ft
&*
ft
ft
»•
ft
S
-
ft.
ft-
k
ft X
§-
ft
5
s
ft.
ft
ft—
ft
fti
<N
ft.‘
ft
b«
b
ft
- b
b
55
1
ft
3
ft
ft
ft
-
k
ft
ft
^*
*
ft
!2
n
n 71 s n ft V i D 7 1 fl- o
p
a X 7 3 ft n 1 n 23 S 7 'I
ft V. 2
ft
>
a n 7 V 1
p 1
7 2 7 7 ft 1
ft
71
7N 7' 7N T> SK >X 7X 7K 7 1
7 1
3
ft
£
u
ft
ft
ft
O,
N
ft
b
ft
i
CM
1-
bo
ft-
<\
N
!
- ft
— ft
- ft
ft
b
ft
* ^
^v.
-4
ft
ft
r%
N.
b
ft
ft
ft
1-
ft
1-
ft,
bft
ft,
V
ft
ft,
k
s
3
s*
55
^Vi
SV
^s,
ft
?
I; r
ft
&
'i
ft
ft-
k.
V
ft
(V
1
ft
.
ft,
^4
<v
3
ft
3
fc
$
!-
^ '
ft .
ft -
pSft
ft
&•
t. Pul. ly LctplcirLCfcOTi fc ^/Zen. . J\.< Griffith Sculj't
,
QJ/A& <_ -sf'1
X2 3 i n i r n £3
1
3 P 3D 3 C y 2 £P P jy n
n X 3 3 p n 3 1 n a 1
3 S 3 J c y 32 ? p m
n X 2 3 p n i I n 13
P
3 Vr .y 3 s Pi
n D n X 3 3 P n 3 T n 3 '
3 ‘p 3D 2 i3y s V
p p w n X 3 3 i n l r n 1
3 s P D y 3 2
% P w n X 31 1 n l n i3
1 k-
^ ?3 1 D y 3
2 s P i D n X2 i n i ! 11 Q 1
7 33 3 y
y 2 3£ P "i 0 n X2 i 1 77 3 n 0
1 <
:h 33 3 a
D y 2 y P 1 0 n X 3 3 P n
'
it n a
•
D P 33 l
l D y 2 s P ® n X2 3 i
;
1 3 r he2
’
3 S 0
ft 3 V 2 I ? 12 n X 3 1
•
71 3 f
r Q *r
D
"*7
D ]• D y 3 y P tr n X 1 1 l 1
T7 D P
3
D T D 3 y 2 2 P 1 27 n x
:
3 3 P n i T n 13
1
D Ta 3 y 2 2 p 1 0 n > 2 3 1 7 1 I n 10
0 7
3 *?
P ] y 2 2 P 3 u r X 3 3
-
71 1 r T!
n Q 1
3 n 2 D y s y p “1 27 n X 3 3 P 71 T J
t n Iff
P
D *7
P 3 c y 2 2 p
-
u n x
:
13 P n
l ? n V 1
D *? D 3 O V 9 y p 1 D n n 3 3 t n
n i r n K 3 s £ 3 D 7 s y P P 32?n X 3 i p
i n I n b P
3 Z2 3 D y s 2 P Pttn X n
* 3
3 i n l r n 13
P
3 P a 1
4 o y 2 2 P*3 a n X 3
2 1 i n i f n is
1
]D *1 3 3 P 1
ft n
di
PParrctt Dtl.
R
Pub. hy Zacking-lon. it JUle n .
Gnjfilh Sculp,.
Tailt <
(
yA& Sfrz/b/ of Z/l€/
<
^Crm/HWM/urn<l
DO r DD yn 2! Si '
pn i nn D3 no Pn
OP 30 D 1
^0 sn sr rn !
in un ni ON
00 & 0 !
“
20T sn ?? n-? on nn ;n
2D OP ?= 2' “SB pn nr U' nn 40 ns
00 _.y.p ed 2P TT nn 0? rp no nx
n: yn SP SO P 1
no on “TTT" n3 no IN
OT y: 3D PD n1
’
nn nj 10 fN
yo 21 ££ no O' no nn 13 TO nx
yn 2D S3 Pfl np ra n 1
in r: no ON
sy P>3 nft WP no in rn m 133 iN
21 ?D n] uo np rn nn a; ’0 ON
X2 P? no D’3 rro~ 7 1 nn on OO Px
1ST ?s ~iy "W n3 m on ^n 03 PD on
PIC ns "W+TiQ“ nr to 1 >n on P3 DO 3N
T>n ns D3 "rnr or 1
1 on pn D3 30 DN
np tps ns ~&rr 'r 01 pn on 33 DO ?N
P’S e?P ”W JTI ^or4
pi on in 03 yo SN
vn n? on PT 01 in on _2i_ 2D sx
nr. nn OD pn “bt 31 on j-i S3 3Q •pK
niz; 0^ Po no “TT' D1 VTi sn XI PO nx
ns pi "W in or £1 sn sn PI no m
PS dp 30 on yr 21 “^rr pn nl HOOT nx
ZAejfZfat/<77ta//JSTaffe/ of ^Z^&rt/fiy/i/S'
on 30 O’ yo an sr p' in 2J1 m ON
DP £ -
sa nn nr nn 31 3 X
D1 yo £3 ?’ no on n r 3 1
3n nx
Mg _SJ_ 30 PP no EP nn on Jit n nx
-&£. SO p: no ~W no 3' ;o in n? ~Tx~
X 3 -jPJL- no 03 nn 3P 33 n’ ns in IX
OS t
.
n^ py no 01 3D pP no. V r b nx
_ np s?S ns oy 30 P3 IP TO
-
n’ DN
en up f^--Ifl.. ny no 13 ra m 03 1 X
nu on IP ns ns iy ro n: ’p OX
nn 3T» nn rp 15 T£> ny DO T'“OS' IX
IS nr rrcz? n IP' ~ns- TflS 00 TT ~DN~1
TL ns in id nn T
S 3£ py DO 3 X !
nn i i3 TP nn 00 op PS D3 ._iy_ DN
in H H3 03 T* DO 1
rl DP 3JC 02 yx~
1 H nn nn 03 nn DO IT Dp ._3|_ ax
I n? ~~W >n. on -^- dd jn ~ow 3n epn sx
it sn ’ r 1
.si pn on 33 3 ._m scy sn PX
1 on ^rr 07 jn n ITT ~PKT n^
S' PD on '~rr 01 yn £n m OX
Po D1
—w on yr 31 *n pn “13 e/3 Pn
no ns sa yo P3 n
D Pf in 13 3N
jPizfr. fry Zatkmpfrvn &*s2Z/*ns. ,
R Griffith Sculp,
.
Part L CEREMONIAL MAGIC. 63
Now there Is an order of letters in thofe tables under the Pars and figns,
almoP like that which is with the afirologers, of tens^elevens, twelves. Of
this calculatory art Alphonfus Cyprius once wrote, and alfo fitted it to Latin
characters ; but becaufe the letters of every tongue, as we Ihewed in the firP
Book, have, in their number, order and figure, a celePial and divine original, I
fihall eafily grant this calculation concerning the names of fpirits to be made not
only by Hebrew letters* but alfo Chaldean, Arabick, Egyptianf Greek and Latin,
and many others, the tables being rightly made after the imitation of the pre-
fi dents.
But here it is objected by many, that it falls out that in thefe tables men of
a differing nature and fortune do oftentimes, by reafon of the famenefs of
name, obtain' the fame genius of the fame name. We muP know therefore
that it muP not be thought abfurd, that the fame daemon may be feparated
from any one foul, and the fame be fet over more. Befides, as many men have
the lame name, fo alfo fpirits of divers offices or natures may be noted or
marked by. one name, and by one and the fame feal or character, yet in a dif-
ferent refpeCt ;
for as the ferpent does fometimes typify ChriP, and fometimes
the devil, fo the fame names and the fame feals may be applied fometimes to
the order of a good demon, fometimes of a bad one. LaPly, the very ardent
intention of the invocatOr,, by which our intellect is joined to the feparated
intelligences, is the caufe that we have fometimes one fpirit, fometimes another,
(although called upon under the fame name,) made obfequious to us.
See the 'following Plates for the tables of the calculation of the names of
fpirits, good and bad, under the, prefidency of the feven planets, and under the
order of the twelve militant figns.
CHAP.
64 THE CABALA; OR* Book !I.
CHAP. XV.
OF THE CHARACTERS AND SEALS OF SPIRITS.
WE muft now fpeak of the characters and feals of fpirits. Characters are
nothing elfe than certain unknown letters and writings, preferving the fecrets of
fpirits and their names from the ufe and reading of prophane men, which the
ancients called hieroglyphical, or facred letters, becaufe devoted to the fecrets
of God only. They accounted it unlawful to write the myfteries of God with
thofe characters which prophane and vulgar things were wrote. Whence
Porphyry fays, “ that the ancients were willing to conceal God and divine vir-
tues, by fenfible figures and by thofe things which are vifible, yet fignifying
invifible things 5” as being willing to deliver great myfteries in facred letters,
and explain them in certain fymbolical figures ; as when they dedicated all
round things to the world, the fun and the moon, hope and fortune ;
a circle
to the heavens, and parts of a circle to the moon ;
pyramids and obelifks to the
fire, a cylinder to the fun and earth.—See the plate.
CHAP. XVI.
ANOTHER WAY OF MAKING CHARACTERS, ACCORDING TO THE C A B A LISTS.
f
AMONG the Hebrews I find more fafhions of characters, whereof one is
moft ancient, viz. an ancient writing which Mofes and the prophets ufed, the
form of which is not rafhly to be difcovered to any ; for thofe letters which
they ufe at this day were inftituted by Efdras. There is among them a writing
which they call celeftial, becaufe they fhew it placed and figured among the
itars.
• *
pyrlcni
Vqrtnoyy ^,>n/OA_p,i 3 '‘
> ljjp<
1® % u J j - '
—V*
Hi13 -Jt
a 3|CJ'— 0 v:iIS 1^5 xJ 3 I
3 a n % 15 o Lj Id u: 3 3 XJ J 3 3 LJ -* G Lj M
4^* G t_» —si II a 3 X k: 13 M id JT s~» U3 vJ 3 3 X 3 t) **
\ 3 D — u» -v»
II a 3 $5 C((3 13 IS M E— 1^5 U 3 XJ 3 40
© Xj 3 u 3 D — q i
U a 3 % V3 a 13 15?
i
-M S—-»
V! 13 3 ©
U Xl 3 3 3 C3 — IS Lj — n a 3 X v: fl 13 ID _»
40 i5 -M
IXS 1 3xJ 3 J £3 —* <3 «— — 3 a 3 Z Vi G 13
4oc v: 13 u ID jt -M
UT U 3 XJ H 3 CJ -* % j •f— 3 a 3 25 vr
n 6 -1 xJ \x! li> DCj D 3 u j G 3 — — ti 3 13 ^ x ^
- lyi/ru-jy -fiocr/p'jh VM TO-.lJi t J ^
y-A
t>/*£up J^lO'>”pf
^ vj'ii'iheywd *
ZjS
:
'SkS
|ft X u S-J J u -- — u G 3r
xJ D ®
0 id XI 3 <3 3
-*, < 3 G ~w
Cf 1 -* 3 — i/S is 1 V3 a1 3 VI |
Vl_jt
D U r
? r . r G 3 a J Xj i
— 3 e? vi 3 -* U VJ r r
3 a \— X U u n
j*
n i a u i/i a — 13 v: -i 3 u 19 u 3 3 13 3 j-j 4
r? %j T u 3 15 3 1 .M
n 3 v-» 3 a 1/3 y. 13 \j G 3 (S
3 a M -• D vi 25 _1 3 w. £{ U K s 3 3 ID 3 3 3
V=J ID J 31 i * a U i-» x n 3 X J yj 3 G 3 G 1x5 xJ —
— ID C 3 3 a « » 1 m
1 1 n r X 3 u n 3 G 3 3 V< —
u Ui a S-J >c: 13 3 25 t_i
i } u (3 J o 3 3 ~M — 3 ID 3 3 &
3 XJ *— ^-»
13 15? X 3 1 a ~M S— 3 C» 3 Z 1/3 u — G V G 3 e
X,
3 cs a 25 IXS a —-
G v! 13 3 xl %—* 4 U 157 3 3 3 13 1—* B
U G G u *3 — 3 ID 3 1 1x5 d[ - j-j» VJ C5 3 25 i— 3 U OC
% 3 u -»
a 3 t3 3 xJ 15 vi! 3 Jf n v r 13 c; r y
3 G J 3 vx: 15? vi a •
D> 3]|JI
- C! i - 3 3 Lj U §L
V
I,
r
sN
^
8
V
l-i
M
I
UN
CN '
fS
r-
&
*
-
d/
ef^€/Bi/ f^d?id?ZHdd iNd^c///i£^
^tniOT^van
^ _ .. „ -M TT -T T^ T AT
^ B c DE F Cr H x KEM
3sr o p a T V X
.Lamed Cemh Jed Tkelh Gkelh Zaire Van Be Halelh Jimel Beth Ble/ih
*0AunT rn“H 2x
Tan Jhtn lies Kuff Zade Be Bin Jamech Nutt Mem
71 UHTX9AUAM
ca//<dC tyfZdZzv/uNB.
afik Jod Theth Chelh Lain. Van He Dulelh- Gimel Beth Hlefh-
? ? ? ? P ?
6 6 w <T 1
esh Kuff Zade Be- Bin- Jamech Samech Sckin- Tan Nun Mem Lamed •
vTU i mruftt
cJ/in Mrktaw cg//h Z^dAvnd tZc.ZZddr-N
imed Cafih Jod Theft Chelh 'fain ^ Van He- Dalelh Gimel Belh Hlelih
frt-in Besh Huff Lade Be- Bin Samech Nun Mem
'VJArxi37£l
Bu-b. by LacAirjyton KAZletf. R Griffith- Jcutfi
Part I. CEREMONIAL MAGIC. %
.liars. There is alfo a writing which they call Malachim, or Melachim, i. e. of
angels, or regal ; there is alfo another, which they call the paffing through
the river, and the characters and figures of all which you may fee in the fol-
lowing Plates.
There is another manner among the Cabalifts, formerly held in great efteem,
hut now it is fo common that it is placed among prophane things, viz. the
twenty-feven characters of the Hebrews may be divided into three clafies,
whereof every one contains nine letters. The firfl, viz. onnmjQN which are
the feals or marks of fimple numbers and of intellectual things diftributed
into nine orders of angels. The fecond hath the marks of tens and
•celeftial things in the nine orbs of the heavens. The third hath the other four
letters, with the five final, viz. ^prjmnp, which are marks of hundreds,
and inferior things, viz. four fimple elements, and five kinds of perfect com-
pounds- They do now and then cliftribute thefe three clafies into nine cham-
bers, the firltis of units, viz. intellectual, celeftial and elemental. The fecond
is of two’s, the third of three’s, and fo of the reft ; thefe chambers are frame*a
by the interfeClion of four parallel lines interfeCting themfelves into right
angles, as is exprefied in the following Plate, fig. A.
Out of which, being difleCted into parts, proceed nine particular figures
(fee Plate, fig.B.) which are of the nine chambers, characterizing their letters
by that Notariacon, which, if it be of one point, fliews the firft letter of that
chamber ; if of two, the fecond ;
if of three, the third letter ; as if you would
frame the character Michael, ViO'D, that comes forth extended with five figures
(for which fee the Plate C.) which are contracted to three figures,
which then are contracted into one, yet the points Notariacon are ufually
omitted, and then there comes forth fuch a character of Michael. See
fig. D.
There is yet another falhion of characters common to almoft all letters
and tongues, and very eafy, which is by gathering together of letters ; as if the
name of the angel Michael be given, the characters thereof fhall be framed
according to the fig. E.
Book II. K And
66 THE CABALA ; OR,. Book II.
And this fafhion among the Arabians is mofl received ; neither is there’
any writing which is fo readily and elegantly joined to itfelf as the Arabick.
You mufl know that angelical fpirits, feeing they are of a pure intellect, and .
altogether incorporeal, are not marked with any marks or characters, or any
other human fi’gns ; but we, not otherwife knowing their edence or quality,
„do, from their names, ox works, or otherwife, devote and confecrate to them ,
figures and marks, by which we cannot any way compel them to us, but by
which we rife up to them, as not to be known by fuch characters and figures
and, firft of all, we do fet our fenfes, both inward and outward, upon them
then, by a certain admiration of our reafon, we are induced to. a religious ve-
neration of themd and then are wrapt with our whole mind into an ecftatical
adoration ; and then with a wonderful belief, an undoubted hope, and quick- -
ening love, calling upon them in fpirit and truth by true names and charac-
ters, do obtain from them that virtue or power which we defire.
G H A P. XVII.
THERE IS ANOTHER KIND OF CHARACTERS, OR MARKS OF SPIRITS^ WHICH ARE RECEIVED
ONLY BY REVELATION. .
THERE is another kind of character received by revelation only, which
can be found out no another way ; the virtue of which characters is from the
Deity revealing ; of whom there are fome fecret works breathing out a har-
mony of fome divinity, or they are, as it were, fome certain agreements or
compacts of a league between us and them. Of this kind there was a lign
fhewed to Conjiantine which was this, in hoc vince ; there was another re- •
vealed to Antiochus in the figure of a Pentangle, which fignihes health -, for,
« being
<f.
JZ
w'll “03 P'N
D1 13 n HDH
f$D 'isn |
U |
LLucnnrm
c
U L C C
± ILC
Part L CEREMONIAL MAGIC. 6 7
being refolved into letters, it fpeaks the word iylaa, i. e. health : in the faith
and virtue of which figns, both kings obtained a great vi&ory againft their
enemies. So Judas, who by reafon of that, was afterwards firnamed Macha-
beus, being to fight with the jews aga.in{kj4ntiochus Eupator received from an
angel a notable fign, odd, in the virtue of which they firft flew i i-,ooo, with an
infinite number of elephants, then again 35,000 of their enemies : for that fign
did reprefent the name of Jehovah, and was a memorable emblem of the name
of feventy-two letters by the equality of number ; and the expofition thereof
is rvrvo 6*0 TD3 'O, a e. who is there among thee ftrong as Jehovah f See
Plate, iig. F.
CHAP. XVIII.
*
OF the bonds of spirits, and their adjurations, and castings OUT.
THE bond by which fpirits are bound, befought, or caft out, are three j
fome of them are taken from the elemental world, as when we adjure a
fpirit by any inferior and natural thing of affinity with or adverfe to them
inafmuch as we would call up or caft them out, as by fumigations offlowers,
herbs, animals, /now, ice, or by hell, fire andfiuch like -, and thefe alfo are often
mixt with divine praifes, and bleffings, and confecrations, as appears in the fong
of the Three Children, and in the pfalm, Praifeye the Lord from the heavens,
and in the confecration and bleffing of thz pafichal taper. This bond works
upon the fpirits by an apprehenfive virtue, under the account of love or hatred,
inafmuch as the fpirits are prefent with, or favour, or abhor any thing that is
natural or againft nature, as thefe things themfelves love or hate one another.
The fecondbond is taken from the celeftial world, viz. when we adjure them
by their heaven, by the ftars, by their motions, rays, light, beauty, clearnefs,
excellency, fortitude, influence and wonders, and fuch like and this bond works
K 2 upon
63 THE CABALA J OR', Book II.
upon fpirits by way of admonition and example. It hath alfo fome command^
efpecially upon the miniftering fpirits, and thofe who are of the loweft orders.
The third bond is from the intellectual and divine world, which is perfected by
religion ; that is to fay, when we fwear by the facraments, miracles, divine
names, lacred feals, and other myfteries of religion ; wherefore this bond is the
higheft of all and the ftrongeft, working upon the fpirits by command and
power ; but this is to be obferved, that as after the univerfal Providence there
is a particular one, and after the univerfal foul, particular fouls ; fo, in the
hrft place, we invocate by the fuperior bonds, and by the names and powers
which rule the things, then by the inferior and the things themfelves. We
muft know further, that by thefe bonds, not only fpirits, but alfo all creatures are
bound, as tempefts, burnings, floods, plagues, difeafes, force of arms, and every
animal, by afliiming them, either by adjuration or deprecation, or benediction, as
in the charming of ferpents ; befldes the natural and celeftial, by rehearfing out
of the myfteries and religion, the cure of the ferpent in terreftrial paradife, the
lifting up of the ferpent in the wuldernefs ; likewife by afluming that verfe of
the 91ft Pfalm, thou JJjalt walk upon the afp and the bafilijk, andfhalt tread upon
the lion a?id the dragon.
C H A P. XIX.
BY WHAT MEANS MAGICIANS AND NECROMANCERS CALL FORTH THE SOULS OF THE DEAD
BY the things which have been already fpoken it is manifeft, that fouls after
death do as yet love their body which they left, as thofe fouls do whofe bodies
want due burial or have left their bodies by violent death, and as yet wander
about their carcafles in a troubled and moift fpirit, being, as it were, allured by
fomething that hath an affinity with them, the means being known, by which,
in times paft, they were joined to their bodies, they may be eaflly called forth
and
Part I. CEREMONIAL MAGIC. 6 9
m
and allured by the like vapours, liquors and favours, certain artificial lights
being alfo ufed, fongs, founds, and fuch like, which moves the imaginative and
fpiritual harmony of the foul; and facred invocations, and fuch like, as belong
to religion, 'ought not to be nelgedted by reafqn of the portion of the rational
foul which is above nature..
Necromancy has its name becaufe it 'works on the bodies of the dead,
and gives anfwers by the ghofls and apparitions of the dead, and fub-
terraneous fpirits, alluring them into the carcafles of the dead, by certain hel-
liffi charms, and infernal invocations, and. by deadly facrifices and wicked
oblations.
There are two kinds of necromancy : railing the carcafles, which is not
done without blood ; the other fciomancy, in which the calling up of the
ffiadow only fuffices. To conclude, it works all its experiments by the
carcafies of the flain and their bones and members, and what is from them ;
for there is in thefe things a fpiritual power friendly to them : . therefore
they eafily allure the flowing down of wicked fpirits, by reafon of the fimi-
litude and property of every familiar, by whom the necromancer, ftrengthened
by their help, can do much in human and terreftrial things, and kindle
unlawful lulls, caufe dreams, difeafes, hatred, and fuch like palfions ; to
which alfo they can confer the powers of the foul, which as yet being
involved in a moill and. turbid fpirit,. wandering about their call bodies, can
do the fame things that the wicked fpirits commit, feeing therefore they
experimentally find, that the wicked and impure fouls violently plucked from
their bodies, and of men not expiated, and wanting burial, do llray about
carcafles, and are drawn to them by affinity. The witches eafily abufe them
for effecting witchcraft, alluring thefe unhappy, fouls, by the appofition of
their body, or by the taking of fome. part thereof, and compelling them by
their devililh charms, by entreating them by the deformed carcafles difperfed
through the wide fields, and the wandering lhadows of thofe who want bu-
rials, and by the gholls fent back from Acheron, and the guells of hell,
whom untimely death has precipitated into hell, and by the horrible defires
of the damned and proud devils, revengers of wickednefs. But he who
could
THE CABALA j OR, Book IL
7°
could red ore the fouls truly to their bodies, muft ffirft know what is the pro-
per nature of the foul from whence it went forth, with how many and how
great degrees of perfection it is replenifhed, with what intelligence it is
itrengthened, by what means diffufed into the body, by what harmony it ffiall
be compacted with it, what affinity it hath with God, with the intelligences,
with the heavens, elements, and all other things, whofe image and refem-
blance it holds. To conclude, by what influences the body may be knit
together again for the raffing of the dead, requires all thefe things which
belong not to men, but to God only, and to whom he will communicate
them.
CHAP. XX.
OF PROPHETICAL DREAMS.
I CALL that a dream which proceeds either from the fpirit of the phan-
tafy and intelleCf united together, or by the illuftration of the agent intel-
lect above our fouls, or by the true revelation of fome divine power in a quiet
and purified mind for by this our foul receives true oracles, and abundantly
yields prophecies to us ; for in dreams we feem both to afk queffions, and
learn to find them out ; alfo many doubtful things, many policies, many things
unknown, unwifhed for, and never attempted by our minds, are manifefted
to us in dreams : alfo the reprefentation of things unknown, and unknown
places, appear to us ; and the images of men, both alive and dead, and of
things to come, are foretold ; and alfo things which at any time have hap-
pened are revealed, which we know not by any report. And thefe dreams
need not any art of interpretation, as thofe of which we have before fpoken,
which belong to divination, not to foreknowledge j and it comes to pafs that
diey who fee dreams, for the mod part, underftand them not : for as to fee
dreams
Part I.' CEREMONIAL MAGIC* 7 *
dreams is from the ftrength of imagination, fo to underhand them is from the
ftrength of the underftanding. They, therefore, whofe intelledt being over-
whelmed by too much commerce of the flefh is in a dead fleep, or its imagi-
native or phantaftic power or fpirit is too dull and unpolifhed, that it cannot
receive the fpecies and reprefentation which flow from the fuperior intellect j
this man, I fay, is altogether unfit for the receiving of dreams and prophe-
fying by them.
Therefore it is neceffary that he who would receive true dreams fhould
keep a pure undifturbed, and an undifquieted imaginative fpirit, and fo com-
pofe it that it may be made worthy of the knowledge and government by
the mind and underftanding ; for fuch a fpirit is moft fit for prophefying, and
is a moft clear glafs of all the images which flow (every where) from all
things. When therefore we are found in body, not difturbed in mind, our
intellect not dulled by meats and drinks, not fad through poverty, not pro-
voked through luft, not incited bv any vice, not ftirred up by wrath or
anger, not being irreligioufly and prophanely inclined, not given to levity,
not loft in drunkennefs, but chaftely going to bed, fall afleep ; then our
pure and divine foul, being free from all the evils above recited, and feparated
from all hurtful thoughts, and now freed by dreaming, , is endowed with
this divine fpirit as an inllrument, and doth receive thofe beams and
reprefentations which are darted down,, as it were, and fhine forth
from the Divine Mind into itfelf ; and, as it were in a deifying glafs, it
does more certain, more clear and efficacioufly behold all things than by the
vulgar inquiry of the intelledt, and by the difcourfe of reafon. The divine
powers inftrudting the foul, being invited to their fociety by the opportu-
nity of the no&urnal folitarinefs, neither, will that genius be wanting to him
when he is awake, which rules all his actions.
Whofoever therefore, by quiet and religious meditation, and by a diet
temperate and moderate according to nature, preferves his fpirit pure fhall
very much prepare himfelf, and by this means become (in a degree) divine
and knowing all things, juftly merits the fame. But whofoever, on the
contrary, languifhes with a fantaftic fpirit, he receives not perfpicuous and
diftant
/
72 THE CABALA, ETC. Book II.
diftant vifions ; but even as the divine fight, by reafon of its vifion, being
weakened and impaired, judges confufedly and indiftin&ly, fo alfo when we
are overcome with wine and drunkennefs, then our fpirit, being opprefled with
noxious vapours (as a troubled water is apt to appear in various forms) is de-
ceived, and waxes dull ; therefore thofe who would receive oracles by dreams,
and thofe oracles true and certain, I would advife him to abftain one whole
day from meat, and three days from wine or any ftrong liquors, and drink no-
thing but pure water ; for, to fober and religious minds, the pure fpirits are
adherent, but fly thofe who are drowned in drunkennefs and furfeiting.
Although impure fpirits do very often adminifler notable fecrets to thofe who
are apparently befotted with wine or liquors ;
yet all fuch communications are
to be contemned and avoided.
But there are four kinds of true dreams, viz. the firft, matutine, i. e.
between fleeping and waking ; the fecond that which one fees concerning ano -
ther ; the third, that whofe interpretation is fhewn to the fame dreamer in the
nodturnal vifion ; and, laftly, the fourth, that which is repeated to the fame
dreamer in the nodturnal vifion.
END .OF PART -FIRST-
THE
t
• * '
.
i
THE PERFECTION AND KEY
OF
THE CABALA,
O R
CEREMONIAL MAGIC.
BOOK II. PART II.
jN this laft hook, which we have made the Perfection and Key of all that
A has been written, we have given thee the whole and entire pradtice of
Ceremonial Magic, fhewing what is to be done every hour of the day
fo that as by reading what we have heretofore written, thou /halt contem-
plate in theory, here thou fhalt be made perfect by experiment and practice :
for in this Key you may behold, as in a mirror, the diitindt functions of the
fpirits, and how they are to be drawn into communication in all places, fea-
fons, and times.
This then is to be known, that the names of the intelligent prefidents
of every one of the planets are conftituted after this manner ; that is to fay,
by collecting together the letters out of the figures of the world from the
rifing of the body of the planet, according to the fuccefiion of the figns
through the feveral degrees, and out of the feveral degrees, from the afpedts
of the planet himfelf, the calculation being made from the degree of the af-
cendant.
Book II. L In
71- THE KEY TO Book IT.
In like manner are conflicted the names of the princes of the evil fpirits ?
they are taken under all the planets of the prefidents in a retrograde order,
the projection being made contrary to the fucceffion of the figns, from the
beginning of the feventh houfe. Now the name of the fupreme and highefl
intelligence, which many fuppofe to be the foul of the world, is colleCled.
out of the four cardinal points of the figure of the world, after the manner
already delivered and by the oppofite and contrary way is known the name
of the great demon or evil fpirit, upon the four cadent angles, .
In like manner you fhall underfland the names of the great prefidential
fpirits ruling in the air, from the four angles of the fuccedent houfes, fo as-
to obtain the names of the good fpirits : the calculation is to be made accord-
ing to the fucceffion of the figns, beginning from the degree of the afcend-
ant, and to attain the names of the evil fpirits by working the contrary
way.
You muft alfo obferve, that the names of the evil fpirits are extracted as
well from the names of the good fpirits as of the evil : fo, notwithflanding, •
that if we enter the table with the name of a good fpirit of the fecond order,
the name of the evil fhall be extracted from the order of princes and go-
vernors ; but if we enter the table with the name of a good fpirit of the
third order, or with the name of an evil fpirit, a governor, after what man-
ner foever they are extracted, whether by this table or from a celeftial
figure, the names which do proceed from hence fhall be the names of the
evil fpirits, the minifters of the inferior order.
It is further to be noted, that as often as we enter this table with the good
fpirits of the fecond order, the names extraCled are of the fecond order
and if under them we extraCl the name of an evil fpirit, he is of the fuperior.
order of the governors. The fame order is, if we enter with the name of an
evil fpirit of the fuperior,. If therefore we enter this table with the names of
the fpirits of the third order, or with the names of the miniftering fpirits, as
well of the good fpirits as of the evil, the names extraCled fhall be the names
of the miniftering fpirits of the inferior order,.
But
Part II CEREMONIAL MAGIC. 75
But many magicians, men of no fmall authority, will have the tables of
this kind to be extended with Latin letters ; fp that by the fame tables alfo,
out of the name of any office or effect, might be found out the name of any
fpirit, as well good as evil, by the fame manner which is above delivered, by
taking the name of the office or of the effefl in the column of letters, in their
own line, under their own flar. And of this practice Lrifmegijius is a great
author, who delivered this kind of calculation in Egyptian letters : not im-
properly alfo may they be referred to the letters of other tongues, for the
reafon affigned to the ligns ; for truly he only is extant of all men who
have treated concerning the attaining to the names of fpirits.
Therefore the force, fecrecy, and power, in what manner the facred names
of fpirits are truely and rightly found out, confifleth in the difpoling of vowels,
which make the name of a fpirit, and wherewith is conflituted the true name
and right word. Now this art is thus perfected and brought to pafs. Firfl,
we are to take heed to placing the vowels of the letters, which are found by
the calculation of the celeflial figure, to find the names of the fpirits of the
fecond order, prefidents and governors : and this, in the good fpirits, is thus
brought to effect, by confidering the Ears which do conflitute and make the
letters, and by placing them according to their order. Firfl, let the degree
of the eleventh houfe be fubtradled from the degree of that flar which is firfl
in order, and that which remains thereof, let it be projected from the degree
of the afcendant ; and where the number ends, there is part of the vowel of
the firfb letter.
Begin therefore to calculate the vowels of thefe letters according to their
number and order, and the vowel which falls in the place of the flar, which
is the firfb in order, the fame vowel is attributed to the firfb letter ; then af-
terwards thou ffialt find the part of the fecond letter, by fubtradling the
degree of a flar, which is the fecond in order from . the firfl flar j
and that which remains caft from the afcendant. And this is the part
from which you ffiall begin the calculation of vowels ; and that vowel
which falls upon the fecond flar the fame is the vowel of the fecond letter :
and fo confequently thou mayefl fearch out the vowels of the following letters
L 2 by
THE KEY TO Book' II.
76
by always, fubtraCting the degree of the following flar from the degree of the
Bar next preceding and going before. And, likewife, all calculations and nu-
merations in the names of the good fpirits ought to be made according to the
iucceffion of the figns. And whereas in calculating the names of the evil
fpirits, the names of the good lpirits are taken from the degree of the eleventh
houfej in thefe ought to be taken the degree of the twelfth houfe. And all nu-
merations and calculations may be made with the fucceffion of the figns, by
taking the beginning from the degree of the tenth houfe.
But in all extractions by tables, the vowels arc placed after another manner*
In the firfl place, is taken the certain number of letters, making the name
itfelf, and is thus numbered from the beginning of the column of the firfl letter,
or w'hereupon the name is extracted ; and the letter on which this num-
ber falleth is referred to the firfl letter of the name extracted, by taking the
diftance of the one from the other, according to the order of the alphabet.
But the number of that diftance is projected from the beginning of that
column, and where it ends there is part of the firft vowel ; from thence thou
fhalt calculate the vowels themfelves, in their own number and order in the
fame column ; and the vowel which fhall fall upon the firft letter of a name,
the fame fhall be attributed to that name.
Now thou fhalt find the following vowels, by taking the diftance from the
preceding vowel to the following, and fo confequently according to the fuccef-
fion of the alphabet ; and the number of that diftance is to be numbered
from the beginning of his own column, and where he fhall ceafe, there is part
of the vowel fought after. From thence therefore muft you calculate the
vowels, as we have above faid, and thofe vowels which fhall fall upon your
own letters, are to be attributed to them. If therefore any vowel fhould hap-
pen to fall upon a vowel, the former muft give place to the latter : and this
you are to underhand only of the good fpirits. In the evil fpirits likewife you
may proceed in the fame way > except only that you make the numerations
a fter a contrary and backward order, contrary to the fucceffion of the
alphabet, and contrary to the order of the colums (that is to fay)
afcending.
The
CEREMONIAL MAGIC.
I^art lit 77
The name of good angels, and of every man, which we have before"taught
how to find out, according to that manner, is of no little authority, nor of a
mean foundation. But now we will give thee fome other ways illuftrated with
no vain reafons. One whereof is by taking in the nativity the five places
of Hylech ; which being noted, the characters of the letters are projected in
their order and number, beginning from Aries, and thofe letters which fall
upon the degrees of the faid places, according to their order and dignity
difpofed and afpeCted, make the name of an angel.
There is alfo another way wherein they take Almutel, which is the ruling
and governing ftar over the aforefaid five places, and the projection is to be
made from the degree of the afcendant; which is done by gathering together
the letters falling upon Almutel, which being placed in order, according
to their dignity, make the name of an angel. There is likewife another way
ufed, and very much had in obfervation from the Egyptians, by making cal-
culations from the degree of the afcendant, and by gathering together the let-
ters according to the Almutel of the eleventh houfe ; which houfe they call a
good demon ; which being placed according to their dignities, the names of
the angels are conftitutedo -
Now the names of the evil angels are known after the like manner, except
only that the projections muft be performed contrary to the courfe and order of
the fucceflion of the figns ; fo that in feeking the names of good fpirits, we
are to calculate from the beginning ofAries ; contrariwife, in attaining the
names of evil, we ought to account from the beginning of Libra. And
whereas, in the good fpirits, we number from the degree of the afcendant ; con-*
trariety, in the evil, we muft calculate from the degree of the feventh houfe.
Bup according to the Egyptians, the name of this angel is collected accord-
ing to the Almutel of the twelfth houfe, which they call an evil fpirit. Now all
thofe rites, which are elfewhere already by us delivered in this Book, may
be made by the characters of any language. In all which (as we have faid be-
fore) there is a myftical and divine number, order and figure, from whence it
comes to pafs, that the fame fpirit may be called by divers names j but others
7 THE KEY TO Book IL
are difcovered from the name of the fpirit himfelf, of the good or evil, by tables
formed to this purpofe.
Now thefe celeftial characters do confift of lines and heads. The heads are
fix, according to the fix magnitudes of the liars, whereunto the planets
likewife are reduced. The firft magnitude holds a ftar with the fun or a crofs
the fecond, with Jupiter, a circular point ; the third, with Saturn, a femicircle,
a triangle, either crooked, round, or acute ; the fourth, with a Mars, a
little ftroke penetrating the line, either fquare, ftraight or oblique ; the fifth,
with Venus and Mercury, a little ftroke or point with a tail afcending or
defending ; the fixth, with the moon, a point made black, all which you may
fee in the annexed Plate. The heads then being pofited according to the
fite of the ftars of the figure of heaven, then the lines are to be drawn out
according to the congruency or agreement of their natures. And this you are
to underftand of the fixed ftars. But in the ereCting of the planets, the lines
are drawn out, the heads being pofited according to their courfe and nature
among themfelves.—See the Plate, No. i.
So when a character is to be found, of any celeftial image afcending in any
degree or face of a fign, which confifts of ftars of the fame magnitude and
nature, then the number of thefe ftars being pofited according to their place
and order, the lines are drawn after the fimilitude of the image fignified,
as copioufiy as the fame can be done.
But the characters which are extracted according to the name of a fpirit
are compofed by the table following, by giving to every letter that name
which agrees to him out of the table ; and although it may appear ealy to
thofe that apprehend it, yet there is no fmall difficulty herein ; to wit, when the
letter of a name falls upon the line of letters or figures, that we may know
which figure or which letter is to be taken. And this may thus be known; if a
letter falls upon the line of letters; confider of what number this letter may be
in the order of the name, as the fecond or the third ; then how many letters
that name contains, as five or feven ; and multiply thefe numbers one after
another by themfelves, and treble the produCt ; then caft the whole (being
added
Part If, CEREMONIAL MAGIC. 79
added together) from the beginning of the letters according to the fucceffion
of the alphabet ; and the letter upon which that number (hall happen to fall,
ought to be placed for a character of that fpirit. But if any letter of a name
fall upon the line of figures, it is thus wrought : take the number how many
this letter is in the order of the name, and let it be multiplied by the number of
which this letter is in the order of the alphabet ; and, being added together,
divide it by nine, and the remainder will fliew the figure or number to be pla-
ced in the character, and this may be put either in a geometrical or arithme-
trical figure of number ; which, notwithftanding, ought not to exceed the
number of nine, or nine angels.—See the Plate, No. z..
But the characters which are underftood bj the revelations of fpirits
take their virtue from thence, becaufe they are, as it were, certain hidden
leals, making the harmony of fome divinity : either they are figns of a
covenant entered into, and of a promifed or plighted faith', or of obedience.
And thofe characters cannot by any other means be found out.
Befides thefe characters there are certain familiar figures and images of
evil fpirits, under which forms- they are wont to appear, and yield obedience to
thofe who invoke them. And all thefe characters or images may be feen inthe
confiderations of each day’s bufinefs, according to the courfe of the letters con-
ffituting the names of fpirits themfelves ; fo that if in any letter there is found
more than the name of one fpirit, his image holds the pre-eminence, the
others imparting their own orders ; fo they which are of the firft order, to them
is attributed the head, the upper part of the body, according to their own
figure ; thofe which are lowed poffefs the thighs a'nd feet ; fo likewife the-
middle letters do attribute like to themfelves the middle parts of the body, to
give the parts that fit ; but if there happen any contrariety, that letter which
is the ftrongeft in the number fhall bear rule ; arid if they are equal they all
impart equal things. Moreover if any name fhall obtain any notable character
or inflrument out of the table, he fhall likewife have the fame character in-
the image.
We may alfo attain to the knowledge of the dignities of the evil fpirits,
by the fame tables of characters and images : for upon whatfoever fpirit falls
any,
8o THE KEY TO Book II.
any excellent fign or inftrument out of the table of charadters, he poiTefies
that dignity. As if there fhould be a crown, it thews a kingly dignity ; if a
creft or plume, a dukedom if a horn, a county : if without thefe there be
a fcepter, fword, or forked inftrument, it thews rule and authority. Like-
wife out of the table of images you fhall find them who bear the chief kingly
dignity: from the crown judge dignity ; and from the inftruments, rule and
authority.
Lathy, they which bear a human thape and figure have a greater dig-
nity than thofe which appear under the forms and images of beatis. They
likewife who ride do excel them which appear on foot. And thus, accord-
ing to all their commixtures, you may judge the dignity and excellency of
fpirits, one before another. Moreover, you mutl understand that the fpi-
rits of the inferior order, of what dignity foever, they are always fubjedt to
the fpirits of the fuperior order ; likewife that it is not incongruent for their
kings and dukes to be fubjedt and minifter to the prefidents of the fuperior
order.
O/Magic Pentacles and their Composition.
WE now proceed to fpeak of the holy and facred [Pentacles and Seals.
For thefe pentacles are certain holy figns and charadters, preferving us from
evil chances and events, helping and affifting us .to bind, exterminate, and
drive away evil fpirits, alluring the good fpirits, and reconciling them to us.
Thefe pentacles .confift either of charadters of good fpirits of the fuperior
order, or of facred pidtures of holy letters or revelations, with apt and proper
verficles, which are compofed either of geometrical figures and holy names of
God, according to the courfe and manner of many of them, or they are
compounded of all of them, or many of them mixed. The charadters which
are ufeful for us to conftitute and make the pentacles are the charadters of
the
Part II. CEREMONIAL MAGIC. 8 r
the good Jfpirits, chiefly of the good fpirits of the firft and fecond order, and
fbmetimes of the third order. Thefe kind of characters are efpecially to
be named holy.
Whatfoever characters of this kind are to be inftituted, we muft draw about
him a double circle, wherein we muft write the name of his angel ;
and
if we will add fome divine name congruent with his fpirit and office, it
will be of greater force and efficacy ; and if we draw about him any angu-
lar figure, according to the manner of his numbers that is lawful to be done.
But the holy pictures which make the pentacles are they which every where
are delivered to us in the prophets and facred writings, both in the Old and
New Teftaments ; ev^n as the figure of the ferpent hanging on the crofs,
and fuch like 3 whereof many may be found in the vifions of the prophets,,
as in Ifaiah, Daniel, Efdras, and others, and likewife in the revelations of
the Apocalypfe. And we have before fpoken of them in our Firft Part,
where we have made mention of holy things, therefore where any picture
is pofited of any of thefe holy images, let the circle be drawn round it on each
fide; wherein let there be written fome divine name that is apt and con-
formed to the effect of that figure, or elfe there may be written around ,
it fome verficle taken out of part of the body of holy Scripture, which may
afcertain or deprecate the defired effedt.
If a pentacle were to be made to gain a vidtory, or revenge againft one’s
enemies, as well vifible as invifible, the figure may be taken out of the
Second Book of the Maccabees ; that is to fay, a hand holding a golden fword
drawn, about which let there be written the verficle there contained, to wit,
take the holy fword, the gtft of God, wherewith thou fhalt fay the adverfaries
of my people Ifrael. Or elfe there may be written about a verficle of the
fifth Pfalm ; in this is the frength of thy arm: before thyface there is death ;
or fome other fuch like verficle. But if you will write a divine name about
the figure, then let fome name be taken that fignifies fear ; a fword, wrath,
the revenge of God, or fome fuch like name congruent and agreeing with
the effect defired. And if there fhall be written any angular figure, let
it be taken according to the rule of the numbers, as we have taught where we
Book II. M have
82 THE KEY TG Book II.
have treated of numbers, and the like operations. And of this fort there are
two pentacles of fublime virtue and great power, very ufeful and neceflary to
be ufed in the confecration of experiments and fpirits ; one whereof is that in
the firft chapter of the Apocalypfe, to wit, a figure of the majefty of God
fitting upon a throne, having in his mouth a two-edged fword, as there is
defcribed ; about which let there be written, “ I am Alpha and Omega, the
Beginning and the End, which is, and which was, and which is to come,
the Almighty. I am the Firft and the Lafl, who am living, and was dead,
and behold I live for ever and ever j and I have the keys of death and
hell.” Then there {hall be written about it thefe three verficles :
Munda Deus virtuti tuse, &c.—Give commandment, O God, to thyfrength
confirm, O God, thy jlrength in us. Let them be as dufi befiore the face of the
wind : and let the angel of the Lordfcatter them. Let all their ways be dark-
nefs and uncertain: and let the angel ofthe Lordperfecute them.
Moreover, let there be written about it the ten general names, which are
El, Elohim, Elohe, Zebaoth, Elion, Efcerchie, Adonay,
jab, Letragrammaton,
There is another pentacle, the figure whereof is like a lamb fain, having
feven eyes andfeven horns \ and under his feet a book fealed withfevenfeals, as it
is in the fifth chapter of the Apocalypfe. Round about let be written this ver-
ficle, behold the lion hath overcome ofthe tribe ofJudah, the root ofDavid. I
will open the book and unloofe the feven feals thereof. And another verficle, I
faw Satan like lightning fall downfrom heaven. Behold I have given you power
to tread upon ferpents andfcorpions, and over all the power ofyour enemies, and
nothing fall be able to hurt you. And let there be alfo written about it the ten
general names as aforefaid.
But thofe pentacles which are thus made of figures and names, let them
keep this order j for when any figure is pofited, conformable to any number,
to produce any certain effect or virtue, there muft be written thereupon, in all
the feveral angles, fome divine name obtaining the force and efficacy of the
thing defired ; yet fo neverthelefs, that the name which is of this fort do con-
fift ofjuft fo many letters as the figure may conftitute a number ; or of fo
many
Saday
CEREMONIAL MAGIC. 83
many letters of a name, as, joined together among themfelves, may make the
number of a figure ; or by any number which may be divided without any
fiiperfluity or diminution. Now fuch a name being found, whether it be only
©ne name or more, or divers names, it is to be written in all the feveral
angles in the figure j but in the middle of the figure, let the revolution
©f the name be wholly and totally placed, or at leaft principally.
We likewife conftitute pentacles by making the revolution of fome kind of
name,, in a fquare table, and by drawing about it a fingle or double circle,
and writing therein fome holy verficle competent and befitting this name, or
from which that name is extracted.. And this is the way of making the
pentacles, according to their feveral diftind: forms and fafhions,which we may,
if we pleafe, either multiply or commix together by courfe among them-
felves,- to work the greater efficacy, extenfion and enlargement of force and
virtue-.
As, if a deprecation would be made for the overthrow and deftrudtion of
one’s enemies, we are to mind, and call to remembrance how God deftroyed the
face of the whole earth in the deluge of waters* and the definition of Sodom
and Gomorrah, by raining down fire and brimftone; likewife, how God over-
threw Pharoah and his hoft in the Red Sea ; and to call to mind if any other
maledidion or curfe be found in holy writ. And thus in things of the like
fort. _
So likewife in deprecating and praying againfr perils and dangers of
waters, we ought to call to remembrance the faving of Noah in the deluge of
waters, the paffing of the children of Ifrael through the Red Sea ; and alfo we
are to mind how Chrift walked on the waters, and how he faved the fhip in
danger from being caft away by the tempeft ; and how he commanded the winds
and the waves, and they obeyed him ; and alfo, that he drew Peter out of the
water, being in danger of drowning, and the like.. And, lafily, with thefe we
invoke and call upon fome certain holy names of God * to wit, fuch as are
fignificative to accomplish our defire, and. accommodated to the defired
effedt i as if it be to overthrow enemies, we are to invoke and call upon names
of 'wrath, revenge,fear, jujiice, andfortitude of God ; and if we would avoid and i
M 2 efcape
<
s4 the key to Book IL
efcape any evil or danger, we then call upon the names of mercy, defence, &U
vation, fortitude, goodnefs, and fuch like names of God. When likewife
we pray to God that he would grant us our defires, we are likewife to inter-
mix therewith the name of fome good fpirit, whether one only, or more,
whofe office it is to execute our defires; and fometimes alfo we require
fome evil fpirit to reftrain or compel, whofe name likewife we intermingle,
and that rightly, efpecially if it be to execute any evil work ; as revenge,
pu-
nifhmcnt, or deflruBion.
Furthermore, if there be any verficle in the Pfalms, or any other part of the
holy Scripture that fhall feem congruent and agreeable to our defire, the fame
is to be mingled with our prayers. Now, after prayer has been made to
God, it is expedient afterwards to make an oration to that executioner, whom,
in our precedent prayer to God, we have defired fhould adminifter to us,
whether one or more, or whether he be an angel, or ftar, or foul, or any of the
noble angels. But this kind of oration ought to be compofed according
to the rules which we have delivered in the former part of our work,
where we have treated of the manner of the compofition of enchantments*
&c.
You may know farther, that thefe kind of bonds have a threefold difference
for the fir ft bond is when we conjure by natural things ; the fecond is com-
pounded of religious myfteries, by facraments, miracles, and things of this
fort ; and the third is conftituted by divine names and holy feals. With
thefe kind of bonds we may bind not only fpirits, but alfo other creatures
whatfoever, as animals, tempejls,
burnings, floods of waters, theforce and power
of arms. Alfo we ufe thefe bonds aforefaid, not only by conjuration, but
fometimes alfo ufing the means of deprecation and benediction. Moreover,
it conduces much to this purpofe to join fome fentence of holy Scripture,
if any (hall be found convenient thereto, as in the conjuration of ferpents, by
commemorating the curfe of the ferpent in the earthly paradife, and the fetting
up the ferpent in the wildernefs ; and further, adding that verficle, thou float
walk upon the aflp and the bafllijk , &c. Superftition is alfo of much prove-
CEREMONIAL MAGIC.
Tart 1L 85
lancy herein, by the tranflation of fome facramental rites, to bind that which
we intend to hinder; as, the rites of excommunication, of fepulchres, funerals,
buryings,-and the like fort.
Of the Confecration ofall magical Infiruments and Materials which are ufed in.
this Art.
THE virtue of confecrations chiefly conftfts in two things, viz. the power
of the perfon confecrating, and the virtue of the prayer by which the confecra-
xion is made. ,
For in the perfon confecrating, there is required firmnefs, conftancy, and
holinefs of life; and that the confecrator himfelf fhall, with a firm and
undubitable faith, believe the virtue, power, and effedt thereof.
Then hvthe prayer by which the confecration is made it derives its virtue
either from divineinfpiration, or elfe by compofing it from fundry places in the
holy Scriptures, in the commemoration of fome* of the wonderful miracles
of God, effedts, promifes, facraments and facramental things, of which we have
abundance in hojy writ.
There muft Hkewife be ufed the invocation of divine names, that are figni-
ficative of the work in hand ; likewife a fandtifying and expiation which is
wrought by fprinkling with holy water, undtions with holy oil, and odoriferous
fuffumigations. Therefore in every confecration there is generally ufed a be-
nedidtion and confecration of water, earth, oil, fire, and faffumigat-ions, &c.
with confecrated wax-lights on lamps burning; for without lights no con-
fecration is duly performed. You mull therefore particularly obferve this,
that when any thing (which we call prophane) is to be ufed, in which there
is any defilement or pollution, it muft, lirft of all, be purified by an Exorcifm
compofed folely for that purpofe, which ought to precede the confecration
which
u THE KEY TO Book IT.
which things Being fo made pure are moft apt to receive the influences
of the divine virtue. We muft alfo obferve that at the end of any con-
fecration after the prayer is rightly performed, as we have mentioned; the-
operator ought to blefs the thing' confecrated, by Breathing out fome
fentence with divine virtue and power of the prefent confecration, with
a commemoration of his virtue and authority, that fo it may be the more
duly performed, and with an earned: and attentive mind. Now I fhall
mention here fome examples, that, by thefe, a path may be made to the
whole perfection thereof.
The Confecration o/" Water.
SO in the confecration of water, we muft commemorate that God has
placed the firmament in the midft: of the .waters, and likewife that God
placed the fountain of waters in the earthly paradife, from whence fprang
four holy rivers that watered the whole earth ; likewife we are to remember
that God caufed the waters to be an inftrument of his juftice in deftroying the
giants, by bringing on the deluge which covered the face of the whole earth
and in the overthrow of the hoft of Pharoah in the Red Sea, and that God
led the children of Ifrael through on dry land, and through the midft: of the
river Jordan, and likewife his marvelloufly drawing water out of the ftony rock
in the wildernefs; and that, at the prayer of Samfon, he caufed water to flow
out of the jaw-bone of an afs ; and likewife that God has made water the
inftrument of his mercy and lalvation for the expiation of original fin ; alfo
that Chrift: was baptized in the river Jordan, and hath thereby fandtified and
cleanfed the waters. Likewife certain divine names are to be invocated
which are conformable hereto; as, that God is a living fountain, living
water, the fountain of mercy, and names of the like fort.
Confecration
Part II. CEREMONIAL MAGIC. ^7
Confecration of Fire.
AND likewlfe, in the confecration of fire, we are to commemorate that
God hath created the fire to be an inftrument to execute his juftice, for
punifhment, vengeance, and the expiation of fins ; alfo, when God comes
to judge the world that he will command a conflagration of fire to go before
him; likewife we are to mention that God appeared to Mofes in a
burning bufh ; and alfo how he went before the children of Ifrael in a pillar
of fire ; and that nothing can be duly offered, fandtified, or facrificed, without
fire ; and how that God inftituted fire to be kept in continually in the
tabernacle of the covenant ; and how miraculoufly he re-kindled the fame, be-
ing extindt, and preferved it elfewhere from going out being hidden under
the waters ; and things of this fort ; likewife the names of God are to be called
upon which are confonant to this ; as we read in the law and prophets, that
God is a comfuming fire ; and likewife if there is any divine names which fig-
nify fire, as the glory of God, the^ light of God, the fplendor and brightnefs of
God, &c„
The Confecration of Oi l,
AND likewife in the confecration of oil and perfumes we are to men-
tion fuch things as are confonant to this purpofe, as of the holy anointing oil,
mentioned in Exodus, and divine names fignificant thereunto; fuch as is
the name Chrift, which fignifies anointed ; and whatever myfteries there are
relative to oil in the Scriptures, as the two olive-trees diftilling holy oil
into the lamps that burn before the face of God, mentioned in Reve-
lations.
Ofthe Benediftion ^/'Lights, Lamps, Wax, &c.
NOW, the blefling of the lights, lamps, wax, &c. is taken from the fire,
and whatever contains the fubftance of the flame, and whatever fimilitudes"
are in the myfteries, as the feven candlefticks which burn before the face of
God.
Therefore
88 t THE KEY TO Book XI*
Therefore we have here given the manner of compofing the confecrations,
which firft of all are neceflary to be ufed in every kind of ceremony, and ought
to precede every experiment or work, and without which nothing in magic rites-
can be duly performed.
In the next place, we will fhew thee the confecration of places, inflruments
and the like things.
The Confecration of Places, Ground, Circle, &c.
THEREFORE when you would confecrate any place or circle, you fhoulcL
take the prayer of Solomon ufed in the dedication and confecration of the
temple ; you muft likewife blefs the place by fprinkling with holy water and
with fuffumigations, and commemorate in the benediction holy myfteries $
fuch as thefe, the fanCtification of the throne of God, of Mount Sinai,
of the tabernacle of the covenant, of the holy of holies, of the temple of
Jerufalem : alio the fandlification of Mount Golgotha, by the crucifixion of
Chrift; the fanCtification of the temple of Chrift ; of Mount Tabor, by the
transfiguration and afcenfion of Chrift, &c. And by invocating all divine names
which are fignificant to this , fuch as the place of God, the throne of God,
the chair of God, the tabernacle of God, the altar of God, the habitation of
God, and the like divine names of this fort, which are to be written about the
circle, or place to be confecrated.
And, in the confecration of inftruments, and every other thing that is
ufed in this art, you muft proceed after the fame manner, by fprinkling
with holy water the fame, by fumigation, by anointing with holy oil, fealing it
with fomfe holy feal, and blefling it with prayer, and by commemorating holy
things out of the facred Scriptures, collecting divine names which are agreea-
ble to the things to be confecrated ; as for example, in the confecration of the
fword we are to remember in the gofpel, “he that hath two coats,” &c.
and that in the fecond of the Maccabees, it is faid that a fword was divinely and
miraculoufly fent to Judas Maccabeus ; and if there is any thing of the like in
the prophets, as “ take unto you two-edged fwords,” &c, And you fhall
alfo*
Tart II. CEREMONIAL MAGIC. 89
alfo, in the fame manner, confecrate experiments and books, and whatever of
the like nature, as writings, pictures, &c. by fprinkling, perfuming, anointing,
fealing, bleffing, with holy commemorations, and calling to remembrance the
fanCtification of myfteries ; as the table of the ten commandments, which were
delivered to Mofes by God in mount Sinai, the fanCtification of the Old
and New Teftaments, and likewife of the law, prophets, and Scriptures,
which were promulgated by the Holy Ghoft : and again, there are to be men-
tioned fuch divine names as are convenient to this ; as thefe are, viz. the
teftament of God, the book of God, the book of life, the knowledge of
*God, the wifdom of God, and the like. And with fuch kind of rites as
thefe is the perfonal confecration performed.
There are befide thefe another rite of confecration of great power and
efficacy ; and this is one of the kinds of fuperftition, viz. when the rite of
confecration or collection of any facrament in the church is transferred to that
thing which we would confecrate.
It muft be noted that vows, oblations, and facrifices, have the power of
confecration alfo, as well real as perfonal ; and they are, as it were, certain
conventions between thofe names with which they are made and us who
make them, ftrongly cleaving to our delire and wilhed effeCts, as when
we facrifice with certain names, or things ; as fumigations, unCtions, rings,
images, mirrors ; and fome things lefs material, as characters, feals, pentacles,
enchantments, orations, pictures. Scriptures, of which we have largely fpoken
before.
Ofthe Invocation of Evil Spirits, and the binding of and conf
raining of
them to appear.
NOW, if thou art delirous of binding any fpirit to a ready obedience
to thee, we will Ihew you how a certain book may be made by which
they may be invoked ; and this book is to be confecrated a book of Evil Spirits,
ceremonioully to be compofed in their name and order, whereunto they bind
Book II. N with
THE KEY TO Book II:
9 °
with a certain holy oath, the ready and prefent obedience of the fpirit. This-
book is therefore to be made of the mod: pure and clean paper, which is
generally called virgin paper ; and this book mud: be infcribed after this man-
ner, viz. let there be drawn on the left fide of the book the image of
the fpirit, and on the right fide thereof his character, with the oath above it,,
containing the name of the fpirit, his dignity and place, with his office and
power. Yet many magicians do compofe this book otherwife, omitting
the characters and images ; but I think that it is much more efficacious not
to negleCt any thing above mentioned in the forms.
There is likewife to be obferved the circumftances of places, times, hours,
according to the ffars which thefe fpirits are under, and are feen to agree to ;
with their fite, rite, and order, being applied.
Which book being fo written, is to be well bound, adorned, garniffied*
embellifhed and kept lecure, with regifters and feals, led: it fhould happen
after the confecration to open in fome part not defigned, and endanger the
operator. And, above all, let this book be kept as pure and reverent as
poffible ; for irreverance of mind, caufes it to lofe its virtue by pollution and
prophanation.
Now this facred book being thus compofed according, to the form and
manner we have delivered, we are to confecrate it after a two-fbldway>
the firft is, that all and dngularly each of the fpirits who are written in the.
book be called to the circle, according to the rites magical, which we have
before taught, and place the book which is to be confecrated in a triangle
on the outfide of the circle ; then read, in the prefence of the fpirits, ail
the oaths which are contained and written in that book ; then the book to be
confecrated being already'placed without the circle in a triangle there drawn,
compel all the fpirits to impofe their hands where their images and cha-
racters are drawn, and to confirm and confecrate the fame with a fpecial and
common oath. This being done, let the book be fhut and preferved as we
have fpoken before ; then licence the fpirits to depart according to due rite and
magical order.
•
There
Part II. CEREMONIAL MAGIC. 9 I
There is another method extant among us of confecrating a general book of
fpirits which is more eafy, and of as much efficacy to produce every efFedt, ex-
cept that in opening this book, the fpirits do not always appear vifible. And
this way is thus : let be made a book of fpirits, as we have before ffiewn, but
in the end thereof write invocations, bonds, and flrong conjurations, where-
with every fpirit may be bound ; then bind this book between two lamens or
tablesj and on the infide thereof draw or let be drawn two holy pentacles
of the divine Majefly, which we have before fet forth, out of the Apocalypfe.
Then let the firfl of them be placed in the beginning of the book, and the fe-
cond at the end of the fame.
This book being thus perfected, let it be brought, in a clear and fair night,
to a circle prepared in a crofs-way, according to the art which we have before
delivered ; and there, in the firfl place, the book is to be opened, and to
be confecrated according to the rites and ways which we have before
delivered concerning confecration, which being done, let all the fpirits be cal-
led which are written in the book, in their own order and place, conjuring
them thrice by the bonds defcribed in the book that they come to that
place within the fpace of three days, to affure their obedience and confirm
the fame, to the book fo to be confecrated ; then let the book be wrapped up
in a clean linen cloth, and bury it in the midfl of the circle, and flop the
hole fo as it may not be perceived or difcovered : the circle being deftroyed,
after you have licened the fpirits, depart before fun-rife ; and on the
third day, about the middle of the night, return and make the circle anew,
and on thy knees make prayer unto God, and give thanks to him and
let a precious perfume be made, open the hole in which you buried your book
and take it out, and fo let it be kept, not opening the fame. Then after
licenfing the fpirits in their order and deflroying the circle, depart before fun-
rife. And this is the lafl rite and manner of confecrating, profitable to what-
ever writings, experiments, &c. that diredl the fpirits, placing the fame
between two holy lamens or pentacles, as is, before mentioned.
But when the operator would work by the book thus confecrated he ffiould
do it in a fair and clear feafon, when the fpirits are leafl troubled j and let him
N 2 turn
THE KEY TO Book If.
92
turn himfelf towards the region of the fpirits ; then let him open the book un-
der a due regiiler, and likewife invoke the fpirits by their oaths there de«
fcribed and confirmed, and by the name of their character and image, to what-
ever purpofe you defire, and if there be need conjure them by the bonds placed
in the end of the book *. And having attained thy defired effedt licenfe them to
And now we proceed .0 fpeak of the Invocation ofgood as well as bad Spirits.
The good fpirits m-iy be invocated of us, or by us, divers ways, and they in
fundry ihapes and manners offer themfelves to us, for they openly fpeak to thofe
that watch, and do offer themfelves to our fight, or do infom us by dreams and
by oracle of thofe things which we have a great defire to know. Whoever there-
fore would call any good fpirit to fpeak or appear in fight, he muff particu-
larly obferve two things ; one whereof is about the difpoftion of the invocant,
the other concerning thofe things which are outwardly to be adhibited
to the invocation for the conformity of the fpirit to be called.
It is necelfary therefore that the invocant religioufly difpofe himfelf for the
fpace of many days to fuch a myilery, and to conferve himfelf during the
time chaile, abilinent, and to abftradt himfelf as much as he can from all man-
ner of foreign and lecular bufinefs ;
likewife he ihould obferve failing, as much
as ihall feem convenient to him, and let him daily, between fun-rifing and
letting, being clothed in pure white linen, feven times call upon God, and
make a deprecation to the angels to be called and invocated, according to the
rule which we have before taught. Now the number of days of failing and
preparation is commonly one month, i. e. the time of a whole lunation. Now,
in the Cabala, we generally prepare ourfelves forty days before.
Now concerning the place, it mull be chofen clean, pure, clofe, quiet, free
from all manner of noife, and not fubjedt to any Granger’s fight. This place
muil firil of all be exorcifed and conl'ecrated ; and let there be a table or altar
placed therein, covered with a clean white linen cloth, and fet towards the
eail : and on each fide thereof place two confecrated wax-lights burning, the
* I have given an example of the book of fpirits, by which you may fee the method in which the
charafters, &c< are placed as above defcribed. Sec the Plate.
flame
Part II. CEREMONIAL MAGIC. 93
flame thereof ought not to go out all thefe days. In the middle of the altar
let there be placed lamens, or the holy paper we have before defcribed, co-
vered with fine linen, which is not to be opened until the end of the days of
confecration. You {hall alfo have in readinefs a precious perfume, and a pure
anointing oil.—And let them both be kept confecrated. Then fet a fenfor on
the head of the altar, wherein you {halt kindle the holy fire, and make a preci-
ous perfume every day that you pray.
Now for your habit, you {hall have a long garment of white linen, clofe be-
fore and behind, which may come down quite over the feet, and gird yourfelf
about the loins with a girdle. You {hall likewife have a veil made of pure
white linen on which muft be wrote in a gilt lamen, the name Tetragrammaton
all which things are to be confecrated and fanftified in order. But you
muft not go into this holy place till it be firft wafhed and covered with a cloth
new and clean, and then you may enter, but with your feet naked and bare ;
and when you enter therein you fhall fprinkle with holy water, then make a
perfume upon the altarj and then on thy knees pray before the altar as we
have directed. -
Now when the time is expired, on the laft day, you fhall faft more ftridrly ;
and falling on the day following, at the rifing of the fun, enter the holy place,
ufing the ceremonies before fpoken of, firft by fprinkling thyfelf, then, making
a perfume, you fhall fign the crofs with holy oil in the forehead, and anoint
your eyes, ufing prayer in all thefe confecration s. Then, open the lamen and
pray before the altar upon your knees ; and then an invocation may be made as
follows :
^ Invocation of the Good Spirits.
IN the name of the blefied and Holy Trinity, I do defire thee, ftrong
and mighty angels (here name the fpirits you would have appear that if it be
tire divine will of him who is called Tetragrammaton, &c. the holy God, the
Father, that thou take upon thee fome lhape as beft becometh thy celeftial
nature, and appear to us vifibly here in this place, and anfwer our demands, in
as far as we {hall not tranfgrefs the bounds of the divine mercy and goodnefs.
X
$4 the key T0 '
Book IL
by requeuing unlawful knowledge ; but that thou wilt gracioufty fhew us
what things are moft profitable for us to know and do to the glory and
honour of his divine Majefty who liveth and reigneth, world without end.
Amen.
Lord thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven—make clean our hearts
within us, and take not thy holy fpirit from us. O Lord, by thy name we have
called them, fuffer them to adminifter unto us.
And that all things may work together for thy honour and glory, to whom
with thee, the Son and bleffed Spirit, be afcribed all might, majefty, and do-
minion, world without end. Amen.
The particular Form of the Lamen.—(For the form of the Lamen fee
the Plate.)
THE invocation being made, the good angels will appear unto you which
you delire, which you fhall entertain with a chafte communication, and licence
them to depart.
Now the lamen which is ufed to invoke any good fpirit mult be made after
the following manner : either in metal conformable or in new wax mixed
with convenient fpices and colours ; or it may be made with pure white paper
with convenient colours, and the outward form of it may be either fquare,
circular, or triangular, or of the like fort, according to the rule of the numbers,
in which there mult be written the divine names, as well general as fpecial.
And in the centre of the lamen draw a hexagon or character of fix corners, in
the middle thereof write the name and character of the Ear, or of the fpirit his
governor, to whom the good fpirit that is to be called is fubjeCt. And about
this character let there be placed fo many characters of five corners or
pentacles as the fpirits we would call together at once. But if we fhould
call only one, neverthelefs there mult be made four pentagons, wherein the
name of the fpirit or fpirits, with their characters, are to be written. Now
this lamen ought to be compofed when the moon is in her encreafe, on thofe
days and hours which agree to the fpirit ; and if we take a fortunate planet
therewith.
Fart II. CEREMONIAL MAGIC.
therewith, it will be the better for the producing the effedt : which table or
lamen being rightly made in the manner we have fully defcribed, muft be con-
Iterated according to the rules above delivered:
And this is the way of making the general table or lamen for- the in-
vacating of all fpirits whatever ; the form whereof you may fee in the Plates
of pentacles, feals, and lamens.
Neverthelefs, we make fpecial tables congruent to every fpirit by the rule
which we have above fpoken concerning holy pentacles.
We will yet declare unto you another rite more eafy to perform this thing :
let the man who wiihes to receive an oracle from a fpirit be chafte, pure,
and fandtified ; then a place being chofen pure, clean, and covered every
where with clean and white linen, on the Lord’s-day in the new of the moon,
let him enter into that place clothed with white linen ; let him exorcife
the place, blefs it, and make a circle therein with a confecrated coal ; let there
be written in the outer part of the circle the names of the angels ; in the
inner part thereof write the mighty names of God ; and let be placed within
the circle, at the four parts -
of the world, the veffels for the perfumes. Then,
being wafhed and fafting, let him enter the place and pray towards the
eaft this whole Pfalm, “ Blefied are the undefiled- in the way,” &c. Pfalm
cxix. Then make a fumigation, and deprecate the angels by the faid divine
names, that they will appear unto you, and reveal or difeover that which you
fo earneftly defire ; and do this continually for fix days, wafhed and fail-
ing. On the feventh day, being wafhed and fafting, enter the circle, per-
fume it, and anoint thyfelf with holy oil upon the forehead, eyes, and in the
palms of both hands, and upon the feet ; then, with bended knees, fay the
Pfalm ’ aforefaid, with divine and angelical names. Which being faid, arife,
and walk round the circle from Eaft to Weft, until thou fhalt be wearied with
a giddinefs of thy head and brain, then ftraitway . fall down in the circle,
where thou mayeft reft, and thou wilt be wrapped up in an eeftafy ; and a
fpirit will appear and inform thee of all things neceffary to be known. We
muft obferve alfo, that in the circle there ought to be four holy candles
burning
96 THE KEY TO Book II.
burning at the four parts of the world, which ought not to want light for the
fpace of a week.
And the manner of fading is this : to abftain from all things having a life
of fenfe, and from thofe which do proceed from them, let him drink only-
pure running water ; neither is there any food or wine to be taken till the go-
ing down of the fun.
Let the perfume and the holy anointing oil be made as is fet forth in
Exodus, and other holy books of the Bible. It is alfo to be obferved, that
as often as he enters the circle he has upon his forehead a golden lamen,
upon which there muft be written the name Tetragrammaton, in the. manner
we have before mentioned.
Of Oracles by Dreams.
BUT natural things and their own commixtures do likewife belong unto
magicians, and we often ufe fuch to receive oracles from a fpirit by a dream 5
which are either by perfumes, undtions, meats, drinks, feals, rings, &c.
Now thofe who are defirous to receive oracles in or through a dream,
let him make himfelf a ring of the fun or Saturn for this purpofe. There
are likewife images of dreams, which, being put under the head when he
goes to deep, doth effectually give true dreams of whatever the mind
hath before determined or confulted upon, the practice of which is as
follows
Thou fhalt make an image of the fun, the figure whereof muft be, a
man lleeping upon the bofom of an angel, which thou fhalt make when Leo
afcends, the fun being in the ninth houfe in Aries ; thou fhalt write upon the
figure the name of the effedt defired, and in the hand of the angel the name
of the intelligence of the fun. Let the fame image be made in Virgo
afcending, Mercury being fortunate in Aries in the ninth ; or Gemini af-
cending. Mercury being fortunate in the ninth houfe in Aquarius j and let
it
CEREMONIAL MAGIC.
Part II.
97
-it be received with Saturn with a fortunate afped, and let the name of the
fpirit be written upon it. Let the fame likewife be . made in Libra amend-
ing, Venus being received from Mercury in Gemini in the ninth houfe, and
write upon it the angel of Venus. Again, you may make the fame image
Aquarius afcending, Saturn fortunately pofleffing the ninth in his ex-
altation, which is Libra ; and let there be written upon it the angel of
Saturn. The fame may be made Cancer afcending, the moon being received
by Jupiter and Venus in Pifces, and being fortunately placed in the ninth
houfe, and write upon it the fpirit of the moon.
There are likewife made rings of dreams of wonderful efficacy ; and there
are rings of the fun and Saturn ; and the conftellation of them is when the
fun or Saturn afcend in their exaltations in the ninth, and when the moon
is joined to Saturn in the ninth, and in that*fign which was the ninth houfe
of the nativity ; and write and engrave upon the rings the name of the fpirit
of the fun or Saturn ^ and by thefe rules you may know how and by what
means to conftitute more of thyfelf : but know this, that fuch images work
nothing (as they are limply images) unlefs they are vivified by a fpiritual and
celeftial virtue, and chiefly by the ardent defire and firm intent of the foul of
the operator. But who can give a foul to an image, or make a Hone, or
metal, or clay, or wood, or wax, or paper to live ? certainly no man 3
(for this
arcanum doth not enter into an artift of a fluff neck,) he only hath it who
tranfcends the progrefs of angels, and comes to the very architype himfelf.
The tables of numbers likewife confer to the receiving of oracles, being
duly formed under their own conftellations. Holy tables and papers likewife
ferve to this effed, being efpecially compofed and confecrated ; fuch as the
Almutel of Solomon, and the Table of the Revolution of the name Tetragram-
maton and thofe things which are of this kind, and written to produce
thefe effeds, out of various figures, numbers, holy Scriptures, and pidures,
with infcriptions of the divine names of God and names of holy angels ; the
compofition whereof is taken out of diverfe places of the holy Scriptures,
Pfalms, and verficles, and other certain promifes out of the divine revelations
and prophecies^,
Book II. G To
THE KEY TO Book II ,
OS
y
To the ume effeCt do conduce, likewife. Holy prayers and deprecations as
\v*ell to God as to the blefied angels ; the deprecations of which prayers are to
be compofed, as we have before fhewn, according to fome religious fimilitude,
making mention of thofe tilings which we intend to do ; as out of the Old
Teftament of the dream of Jacob, Jofeph, Pharoah, Daniel, and Nebuchad-
nezzar : if out of the New Tefl'ament, of the dream of Jofeph ; of the three
wife men, or magi, of John the evangelift Deeping upon the bread: of our
Lord j and whatever of the like kind can be found in religion, miracles, and
revelation. According to which the deprecation may be compofed ; if when
he goes to Deep it be with a firm intention, and then, without doubt, they will
afford a wonderful efi~eCt.
Therefore he who is defirous of receiving true oracles by dreams, let him
abDain from fupper, from drink, and be otherwife well difpofed, fo his brain
will be free from turbulent vapours ; let him alfo have his bed-chamber fair
and clean, exorcifed and confecrated if he will ; then let him perfume the fame
with fome convenient fumigation, and let him anoint his temples with fome
unguent efficacious hereunto, and put a ring of dreams upon his finger; then
let him take one of the images we have fpoken of, or fome holy table, or paper,
and place the fame under his head ; then, having made a devout prayer, let
him addrefs himfelf to Deep, meditating upon that thing which he defires to
know ; fo Diall he receive a moD certain and undoubted oracle by a dream,
when the moon goes through that fign which was in the ninth houfe of his
nativity, and alfo when Die goes through the fign of the ninth of the revolu-
tion of his nativity, and when Die is in the ninth fign from the fign of per-
fection.
This is the way whereby we may obtain all fciences and arts whatfoever,
whether alchemy, magic, or elfe, fuddenly and perfectly with a true illumina-
tion cf our intellect ; although all inferior familiar fpirits whatfoever conduce
to this efteCt, and fometimes alfo evil fpirits fenfibly inform us intrinfically and
extrinficallv.
Of
Part XL CEREMONIAL MAGIC, 99
Of the Method of rdijthg Evil or Familiar Spirits by a Circle j
likewfe the Souls and Shadows ofthe Dead.
IT is here convenient that we fay fomething abfcut the means ufed by exor-
cifts to raife up what are ufually termed evil fpirits to the circle, and the
methods of calling up the ghofts or fouls of thofe who have died a violent or
premature death.
Now, if any one would call any evil fpirit to the circle, he mull firft confi-
der and know his nature, and to which of the planets it agrees, and what of-
fices are diftributed unto him from the planet. This being known, let there
be fought out a place fit and convenient, and proper for his invocation,
according to the nature of the planet and the quality of the offices of the fame
fpirit, as near as it can be done ; as if their power be over the fea, rivers or
floods, then let the place be the fea-fhore, and fo of the reft. Then chufe a
convenient time both for the quality of the air (being ferene, quiet, clear and
fitting for the fpirits to affume bodies) ; as alfo of the quality of and nature of
the planet and the fpirit, as on his day and time in which he rules ; he may be
fortunate or unfortunate fometimes of the day, and fometimes of the night, as
the ftars and fpirits do require.
Thefe things being judicioufly confidered, let the circle be made at the
place elected, as well for the defence of the invocant as the confirmation of the
fpirit. And in the circle write the divine general names, and all thofe
things which do yield defence to us ; and, with them, thofe divine names
which do rule his planet, and the offices of the fpirit himfelf ; likewife write
therein the names of the good fpirits which bear rule in the time you do this,
and are able to bind and conftrain -that fpirit which we intend to call. And
if wT
e will further ftrengthen and fortify our circle, we may add charadters and
pentacles agreeing to the work ; then alfo, if we will, we may either, within or
without the circle, frame an angular figure with the infcription of fuch con-
venient numbers as are congruent amongft themfelves to our work, which
O 2 are
100 THE KEY TO Book I IV
are to be known according to the manner of numbers and figures delivered in
our firft Book.
Further we are to be provided with lights,
perfumes, unguents, andi
medicines, compounded according to the nature of the fpirit and planet,
which agree with the fpirit by reafon of their natural and celeftial
virtue.
Then we are to be furnifhed with holy and confecrated things neceflary, not'
only for the defence of the invocant' and his companions, but alfo ferving
for bonds to bind and conftrain the fpirits 5 fuch as holy papers, lamens,
pictures, pentacles, fwords, fcepters, garments of convenient colour and
matter.
Then, with all thefe things provided, let the exorcift and his companions
go into the circle. In the firft place, let him confecrate the circle and every
thing he ufes ; which being done in a folemn and firm manner, with conve-
nient gefture and countenance, let him begin to pray with a loud voice after
1
the manner following. Firft, by making an oration or prayer to God, and them
intreating the good fpirits ; but wb fhould read fome prayer, or pfalm, or gof-
pel, for our defence in the firft place. After thofe prayers and orations are
faid, let him begin to invocate the fpirit which he defireth, with a gentle and
loving enchantment to all the coafts of the world, with a commemoration of
his own authority and power. Then reft and look round to fee if any fpirit
does appear ; which if he delays, then let him repeat his invocation, as above
faid, until he hath done it three times ; and if the fpirit is obftinate and will
not appear, then let the invocator begin to conjure him with divine power ;
but fo that all his conjurations and commemorations do agree with the nature
and office of the fpirit, and reiterate the fame three times, from ftronger to
ftronger, ufing contumelies, curfings, punifhments, fufpenfion from his power
and office, and the like.
And after thefe courfes are finifhed, ceafe ; and if the fpirit fhall appear let
the invocant turn himfelf towards the fpirit, and courteoufly receive him, and,
earneftly entreating him, let him afk his name, which write down on your
holy paper, and then proceed by afking him whatfoever you will ; and if in any
thing
Part II. CEREMONIAL MAGIC. IGF
thing the fpirit (hall appear to be objlinate, ambiguous, or lying, let him be
bound by convenient conjurations ; and if you doubt any thing, make, without
the circle with the confecrated fword, the figure of a triangle or pentagon* and
compel the fpirit to enter into it > and if you receive any promife which yon
would have confirmed with amoath, ftretch the fword out of the circle, and.
fwear the fpirit by laying his hand on the fword. Then having obtained of
the fpirit that which you defire, or are otherwife contented, licenfe him to de«
part with courteous words* giving command that he do no hurt ; and if he
will not depart, compel him by powerful conjurations ; and if need require ex-
pel him by exorcifms and by making contrary fuffumigations. And when ho
is departed, go not out of the circle, but make a flay, and ufe fome prayer giv-
ing thanks1
to God and the good angels ; and alfo praying for your future;
defence and confervation, which being orderly performed you may depart.
But if your hopes are fruftrated, and no fpirit will appear, yet for this**
you need not defpair ; but leaving the circle after licenfing to depart (
which
mufl never be omitted, whether afpirit appears or not *,) return at other times,-
doing as before. And if you think that you have erred in any thing, then
you fhall amend by adding or diminifhing ; for the conflancy of repetition
encreafes your authority and power, and flrikes ' a terror into the fpirits, and
compels them to obey*
And often the fpirits do come although they appear not vifible (to caufe5
terror to him who calls them,) either in the thing which he ufes, or elfe in
the operation itfelf. But this kind of licenfing is not given fmply, but by-
a kind of difpenfation, with fufpenfion, until they fhall render themfelves'
obedient : alfo, without a circle, thefe fpirits may be called to appear, by the-
way we have delivered in the confecration of a book. But when we intend
to execute any effed where an apparition is not needful, then that is to be1
done, by making and forming that which is to be to us an inflrument; as
whether it be an image, ring, character, table, writing, candle, facrifice, or
* They who negleft licenfing the fpirits are in very great danger, .becaufe inftances have been known
of the operator experiencing fudden death.
any .
-
102 THE KEY TO Book IT.
any thing elfe j then the name of the fpirit is to be written therein with
his character, according to the exigency of the experiment, either by writing
it with blood, or otherwife uSing a perfume agreeable to the fpirit. Like-
wife we are often to make orations and prayers to God and the good angels
before we invocate any evil fpirit, conjuring him by divine power.
In fome former parts of our work we have taught how and by what means
the foul is joined to the body.
We will in this place inform thee farther, that thofe fouls do ftill love
their relinquished bodies after death, a certain affinity alluring them as it
were. Such are the fouls of noxious men who have violently relinquished
their bodies, and fouls wanting a due burial, which Still wander in a liquid
and turbulent fpirit about their dead carcafles ; for thefe fouls, by the known
means by which they were joined to their bodies, by the like vapours, li-
quors, and favours, are eaffiy drawn into them.
Hence it is that the fouls of the dead are not to be called up without
blood or by the application of fome part of their relid: body.
In the rai/ing therefore of thefe Shadows, we are to perfume with new
blood the bones of the dead, and with fleffi, eggs, milk, honey, and oil,
which furniSh the foul with a medium apt to receive its body.
It is likewife to be underftood, thofe who are deSirous to raife any fouls of
the dead, ought to feled thofe places wherein thefe kind of fouls are mod:
known to be converfant ; or by fome alliance alluring the fouls into their
forfaken bodies, or by fome kind of affedion in times paft impreffied in them
in their life, drawing the fouls to certain places, things, or perfons ; or by the
forcible nature of fome place fitted and prepared to purge or punifh thefe fouls :
which places, for the moft part, are to be known by the appearance of vi-
sions, nightly incurfions, and apparitions.
Therefore the places moft fitting for thefe things are church-yards. And
better than them are thofe places devoted to the executions of criminal judg-
ments ; and better than thefe are thofe places where, of late years, there
have been fo great and fo many public Slaughters of men j and that place is
ftill better than thofe where fome dead carcafs that came by violent death is
not
Part II.- CEREMONIAL MAGIC. 102
not yet expiated, nor was lately buried •, for the expiation of thofe places is-
likewife a holy rite duly to be adhibited to the burial of the bodies, and of-
ten prohibits the foul returning to its body, and expels the fame afar off to
the place of judgment.
And from hence it is that the fouls of the dead are not eafy to be raifed up,
except it be the fouls of them whom we know to be evil, or to have perilhed
by a violent death, and whofe bodies do want the rite of due burial.
Now although we have fpoken concerning fuch places of this kind, it
will not be fafe or commodious to go unto them ; but it is requifite for us to
take to whatfoever place is to be chofen fome principal relidt of the body,
and therewith make a perfume in due manner, and to perform other compe-
tent rites.-
It is alfo to be known, that becaufe the fouls are certain fpiritual lights,
therefore artificial lights framed out of certain competent things, compound-
ed according to a true rule, with congruent infcriptions of names and feals, do
very much avail to the railing up of departed fouls. But thofe things which
are now fpoken of are not always fufficient to raife up fouls, becaufe of an
extra-natural portion of underftanding and reafon, which is above and known 1
only to the heavenly deftinies and their powers.
We fhould therefore allure the faid fouls by fupernatural and celeftial
powers duly adminiftered, even by thofe things which do move the very har-
mony of the foul, as well imaginative as rational and intelle<5lual, fuch as
voices, fongs, founds, enchantments 5 and religious things, as prayers, con-
jurations, exorcifms, and other holy rites, which may commodioully be ad-
minillered hereunto.
•
'
..
END OF PART SECOND.
die namai drupeA
^everniyr dufday*
f
die mseA m/Adiser-Ae^iA, Sees.
Sundav dlfonday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Triday J' a tu rdav
Michaiel Gabriel Camael Raphael S aduel Ana’el Cafliel
3~j3'-)Qy/ ^ y|
(TiT iTiI ro
Mi - ===^ |
\A)| UJL 4
d3
O 3 ® <$
r rrt
S
oi yy / oc J
X)
b
-vvnrv
fuvme of thedt- . ''steedi/ort
Machen.
name of the 1 '/Seamen.
Sliamam.
name/ of the- SJ^ecoi/tat
Machon.
'riasne of the 2. Atteanan
Raquie-
na-mt tAc6 </twWn.
-Zebul
.
-ruzsne of the3. AtAaa/un
Sagun.
iTpiPS4rufe/a />
M
uMotA
aAwv-e the- b Jbewvon,
&
:
yt^{ieCl?rU*r if dll/
AAoirh trflAyunT) to-
te- mas/e of mraiat
cle/Aonu
I
-W. AS&rre££ l?ei acfonoton V-AlUrv Pnffvlk M
OP THE
PARTICULAR COMPOSITION
OF THE
MAGICAL CIRCLE
•
|Sv- » - •/- . f’X - *
OF
EXORCISMS, BENEDICTIONS, AND THE CONJURATIONS
OF EVERY DAY IN THE WEEK;
AND
THE MANNER OF WORKING DESCRIBED.
BOOK II. PART III.
HPHE following inftru&ions are the principal and fum total of all we have
faid, only we have brought it rather into a clofer train of experiment
and pradtice than any of the reft ; for here you may behold the diftindt func-
tions of the fpirits ; likewife the whole perfection of magical ceremonies is
here defcribed, fyllable by fyllable.
But as the greateft oower is attributed to the circles, (for they are certain
fortreffes,) we will now clearly explain, and fhew the compofition and figure
of a circle.
The Compoftion of the Circle.—(For the figure of the Circle fee the Plate.)
The forms of circles are not always one and the fame, but are changed
according to the order of fpirits that are to be called, their places, times.
Book II. P days,
io 6 THE KEY TO Book II.
days, and hours j for in making a circle it ought to be confidered in what
time of the year, what day, and what hour, what fpirits you would call, and;
to what ftar or region they belong, and what functions they have : therefore,,
to begin, let there be made three circles of the latitude of nine feet, diftantone
from another about a hand’s breadth. Firft, write in the middle circle the name'
of the hour wherein you do the work ; in the fecond place, write the-
name of the angel of the hoar in the third place, the feal of the angel of
the hour ;
fourthly, the name of the angel that rules the day in which
you work, and the names of his ministers ; in the fifth place, the
name of the prefent time ; fixthly, the name of the fpirits ruling in
that part of time, and their prefidents ;
feventhly, the name of the head of
the ftgn ruling in the time ; eighthly, the name of the earth, according to
the time of working ; ninthly, and for the compleating of the middle circle,
write the name of the fun and moon, according to the faid rule of time : for
as the times are changed, fo are the names : and in the outer circle let there
be drawn, in the four angles, the names of the great prefidential fpirits of the
air that day wherein you would do this work, viz. the name of the king and
his three minifters. Without the circle, in four angles, let pentagons be
made. In the inner circle write four divine names, with four erodes inter-
pofed : in the middle of the circle, viz. towards the eaft let be written Al-
pha ; towards the weft. Omega ; and let a crofs divide the middle of the circle.
When the circle is thus finifhed, according to rule, you fhall proceed to
conlecrate and blefs it, faying.
In the name of the holy, hiefed, and glorious Trinity,
proceed we to our
work in thefe myferies to accompli(h that which we defire ; we therefore, in the
names aforefaid, confecrate this piece of ground for our defence fa that no fpirit
whatfoever fall be able to break thefe boundaries, neither be able to caufe injury
Jior detriment to any of us here afembled ; but that they may be compelled to )land
before this circle, and anfwer truly our demands, fo far as it pleafeth Him who
liveth for ever and ever ; and whofays, I am Alpha and Omega, the Beginning
and the End, which is, and which was,
and which is to come, the Almighty
l am the Firjl and the Laf, who am living and was dead j
and behold I live
for
Part III. CEREMONIAL MAGIC. °7
for ever and ever and I have the keys of death and hell. Blefs, 0 Lord
this creature of earth wherein wefand ; confirm, 0 God ! thy firength in us, Jo
that neither the adverfary nor any evil thing may caufe us tofail, through the'
merits ofJefus Chrifi. Amen
It is alfo to be known that the angels rule the hours in a fucceflive order,
according to the courfe of the heavens and the planets to which they are fub-
je<ft ; fo the fame fpirit which governeth the day rules alfo the firft hour of the
day ; the fecond from this governs the fecond hour, and fo on throughout
and when feven planets and hours have made their revolution it returns again
to the firft which rules the day. Therefore we fhall firft fpeak of the names
of the hours, viz.
A Table Jhewing ^ Magical Names of the Hours, both Day
and Night.
Names of Hours
of
the Day.
Names of Hours
of
the Night.
I Yain I Beron
2 Janor 2 Barol
3 Nafnia 3 Thami
4 Salla 4 Athar
5 Sadedali 5 Methon
6 Thamur 6 Rana
7 Ourer 7 Netos
8 Thamic 8 Tafrac
9 Neron 9 Safiur
IO Jayon IO Agle
1 Abai 1 Calerva
.
12 '
Natalon 12 Salam
Gf the names of the angels and their feals it fhall be fpoken in tbeir proper
places j but here we will ftiew the names of the times.
P 2 A year
io8 THE KEY TO Book II»
A year therefore is four-fold, and is divided into fpring, fummer, autumn*
and winter ; the names thereof are thefe
The fpring, Tahi the fummer, Cafmaran autumn, Adarcel winter*
Farias.
The Angels of the Spring—Caracafa, Core, Amatiel, Commifloros.
The head of the fign in fpring is called Spugliguel.
The name of the earth in fpring, Amadai.
The names of the fun and moon in fpring : fun, Abraym ; moon, Agufita*
The Angels of the Summer—Gargatel, Tariel, Gaviel.
The head of the fign of the fummer, Tubiel.
The name of the earth in fummer, Feftativi.
The names of the fun and moon in fummer: fun, Athemay ; moon,
Armatus.
The Angels of the Autumn—Tarquam, Guabarel.
The head of the lign of autumn, Torquaret.
The name ofthe earth in autumn, Rabinnara.
The names of the fun and moon in autumn : the fun, Abragini j the moon,
Matalignais.
The Angels of the Winter— mabael, Cetarari.
The head of the fign of winter, Attarib.
The name of the earth in winter, Geremiah.
The names of the fun and moon in winter : the fun, Commutoff; the
moon, Affaterim.
Thefe things being known, finifii the confecration of the circle by faying,
“ Thou fhalt purge me with hyfop, O Lord, and I fhall be clean : thou
{halt wafh me and I fhall be whiter than fnow.”
Then fprinkle the fame with holy water, and proceed with the benedi&ion o§
the perfumes.
Bene*
Part III, CEREMONIAL MAGIC, IO9
Benediction of Perfumes.
THE God of Abraham, God of Ifaac, God of Jacob, blefs here the
creatures of thefe kinds, that they may fill up the power and virtue of their
odours ; fo that neither the enemy nor any falfe imagination may be able to
enter into them; through our Lord Jefus Chrift, &c. Then fprinkle the
fame with holy water.
The Exorcism of Fire into which the Perfumes are to be put.
I EXORCISE thee, O thou creature of fire, by the only true God Jehovah,
Adonai, Tetragrammaton, that forthwith thou caft away every phantafin from
thee, that it fhall do no hurt to any one. We befeech thee, O Lord, to blefs
this creature of fire, and fandlify it, fo that it may be blefled to fet forth the
praife and glory of thy holy name, and that no hurt may be permitted to
come to the exorciferor fpedtators ; through our Lord Jefus Chrift. Amen.
Of the Habit of the Exorcist.
IT fhould be made, as we have before defcribed, of fine white linen and
clean, and to come round the body loofe, but clofe before and behind
Ofthe Pentacle o/'Solomon.—(For the fig. fee the Plate.)
IT is always necefiary to have this pentacle in readinefs to bind with, in
cafe the fpirits fhould refufe to be obedient, as they can have no power over
the exorcift while provided with and fortified by the pentacle, the virtue of
the holy names therein written prefiding with wonderful influence over the
fpirits.
It fhould be made in the day and hour of Mercury upon parchment made
of a kidfkin, or virgin, or pure, clean, white paper ; and the figures and
letters
THE KEY TO
1 10 Book II.
letters wrote in pure gold ; and it ought to be confecrated and fprinkled (as
before often fpoken) with holy water.
When the vefture is put on, it will be convenient to fay the following
oration
An Oration when the Habit or Vesture is put on.
ANOOR, Amacor, Amides, Theodonias, Anitor; by the merits of the an-
gels, O Lord ! I will put on the garment of falvation, that this which I de-
lire I may bring to effedt, through thee, the moll holy Adonai, whofe king-
dom endureth for ever and ever. Amen.
The Manner of Working.
LET the moon be increaling and equal, if it can then be conveniently done
but efpecially let her not be combull, or in Via Combulla, which is between
fourteen degrees of Libra and fourteen degrees of Scorpio.
The operator ought to be clean and purified for nine days before he does
the work. Let him have ready the perfume appropriated to the day wherein
he does the work ; and he mull be provided with holy water from a clergy-
man, or he may make it holy himfelf, by reading over it the confecration
of water of baptifm ; he mull have a new vefiel of earth, with fire, the
vellure, and the pentacle ; and let all thefe things be rightly and duly confe-
crated and prepared. Let one of the companions carry the vefiel with fire, and
the perfumes, and let another bear the book, the garment, and pentacle ; and
let the operator himfelf carry the fword, over which Ihould be faid a prayer of
confecration : and on the middle of the fword on one fide let there be engra-
ven Agla -f- t and on the other fide, *j On> -f
Tetragrammaton -f*.
And the
place being fixed upon where the circle is to be eredted, let him draw the
lines we have before taught, and fprinkle the fame with holy water, confe-
crating, &c. &c.
The
Part Iir. CEREMONIAL MAGIC. Ill
The operator ought therefore to be prepared with failing, chaftity, and ab-
ftinence, for the fpace of three days before the day of operation j and on the day
that he would do this work, being clothed with the fore-mentioned vefture,
and furnifhed with pentacles, perjumes, a fword, bible, paper,
pen, and con-
fecrated ink, and all things necejfary hereunto, let him enter the circle, and
call the angels from the four parts of the world which do rule the feven
planets, the feven days of the week, colours, and metals, whofe names you
will fee in their places ; and, with bended knees, firft let him fay the Pater-
nofter or Lord’s Prayer, and then let him invocate the faid angels, faying,
O angeli !
fupradicli ejlote adjutores mihi petitioni, & in adjatorum mihi,
in meis rebus et petitionibus.
Then call the angels from the four parts of the world that rule the air
the fame day in which he makes the experiment ; and, having employed efjpe-
cially all the names and fpirits within the circle, fay,
O vos omnes, adjutore atque contejlor, per fedem Adonai, per Hagios, Theos,
Ifchyros, Athanatos, Paracletos, Alpha & Omega, & per hcec tria nomina fe~
creta, Aylay On, Petragrammaton,
quod hodie debeatis adimplere quod cupio.
Thefe things being performed, let him read the conjuration affigned for the
day; but if they fhall be pertinacious or refractory, and will not yield them-
felves obedient, neither to the conjuration affigned for the day, nor any of
the prayers before made, then ufe the exorcifm following :
^ General Exorcism of the Spirits of the Air.
WE being made after the image of God, endued with power from God,
and made after his will, do exorcife you, by the moft mighty and powerful
name of God, El, ftrong and wonderful, (here name the fpirit which is to ap-
pear,J
and we command you by Him who fpoke the word and it was done,
and by all the names of God, and by the name Adonai, El, Elohim, Elohe,
Zebaoth, Elion, Eferchie, jah, Tetragrammaton, Sadai, Lord God Mod; High:
we exorcife you, and powerfully command you that you forthwith appear
unto us here before this circle in a fair human ffiape, without any defor-
mity
1 12 THE KEY TO Book II.
mity or tortuoiity ; come ye all fuch, becaufe we command you by the name
Yaw and Vau, which Adam heard and fpoke ; and by the name of God, Agla,
which Lot heard, and was faved with his family ; and by the name Joth,
which Jacob heard from the angel wreftling with him, and was delivered
from the hand of his brother Elau ; and by the name Anaphexeton, which
Aaron heard and fpoke, and was made wife ; and by the name Zebaoth,
which Mofes named, and all the rivers were turned into blood ; and by the
name Eferchie Oriflon, which Mofes named, and all the rivers brought forth
frogs, and they afcended into the houfes of the Egyptians, deftroying all
things ; and by the name Elion, which Mofes named, and there was great
hail, fuch as had not been fince the beginning of the world ; and by the
name Adonai, which Mofes named, and there came up locufts, which ap-
peared upon the whole land of Egypt, and devoured all which the hail had
left ; and by the name Schema Amathia, which Jofhua called upon, and the
fun flayed his courfe ; and by the name Alpha and Omega, which Daniel
named, and deflroyed Bel and flew the dragon and in the name Emmanuel,
which the three children, Sidraeh, Mifach, and Abednego, fung in the
midfl of the fiery furnace, and were delivered j and by the name Hagios
and by the feal of Adonai ; and by Ifchyros, Athanatos, Paracletos ; and by
thefe three fecret names, Agla, On, Tetragrammaton, I do adjure and con-
tefl you ; and by thefe names, and by all the other names of the living and true
God, our Lord Almighty, 1 exorcife and command you, by Him who fpoke the
word and it was done, to whom all creatures are obedient ; and by the dreadful
judgment of God •> and by the uncertain fea of glafs, which is before the divine
Majejiy, mighty and powerful ; by the four beads before the throne, having eyes
before and behind ; and by the fire round about his throne j and by the holy
angels of heaven ; by the mighty wifdom of God, we do powerfully exorcife
you, that you appear here before this circle, to fulfil our will in all things
which fhall feem good unto us; by the feal of Baldachia, and by this name Pri-
meumaton, which Mofes named, and the earth opened and fwallowed up Corah,
Dathan, and Abiram : ami in the power of that name Primeumaton, com-
manding the whole hoft of heaven, we curfe you, and deprive you of your
office,
Part lit CEREMONIAL MAGIC. n 3
office, joy, and place, and do bind you in the depth of the bottomlefs pit,
there to remain until the dreadful day of the laft judgment ; and we bind you
into eternal fire, and into the lake of fire and brimflone, unlefs you forth-
with appear before this circle to do our will : therefore, come ye, by thefe
names, Adonai, Zebaoth, Adonai,, Amioram ; come ye, come ye, come ye,
Adonai commandeth ; Saday, the moll mighty King of Kings, whofe power
no creature is able to refill, be unto you moll dreadful, unlefs ye obey, and
forthwith affably appear before this circle, let miferable ruin and fire un-
quenchable remain with you j therefore come ye, in the name of Adonai,
Zebaoth, Adonai, Amioram j come, come, why ftay you ? haften! Adonai,
Sadai, the King of Kings commands you : El, Aty, Titcip, Azia, Hin, Jen,
Minofel, Achadan Vay, Vaah, Ey, Exe, A, El, El, El, A, Hy, Hau, Hau,
Hau, Vau, Vau, Vau, Vau.
A Prayer to God, to be faid in the four Parts of the World
in the Circle.
AMORULE, Taneha, Latiflen, Rabur, Teneba, Latillen, Efcha, Aladia,
Alpha and Omega, Leyfte, Orifion, Adonai; O moft merciful heavenly
Father ! have mercy upon me, although a finner ; make appear the arm of
thy power in me this day againfl; thefe obfidnate fpirits, that I, by thy will,
may be made a contemplator of thy divine works, and may be illuffcrated
with all wifdom, to the honour and glory of thy holy name. I humbly be-
feech thee, that thefe fpirits which I call by thy judgment may be bound and
conftrained to come and give true and perfedt anfwers to"' thofe things which
I fhall alk of them ; and that they may do and declare thofe things unto us,
which by me may be commanded of them, not hurting any creature,
neither injuring or terrifying me or my fellows, nor hurting any other
creature, and affrighting no man ; but let them be obedient to thofe things
which are required of them.
a. Then
THE KEY TO Book II.
314
Then, ftanding in the middle of the circle, ftretch out thy hand towards
the pentacle, faying. By the pentacle of Solomon I have called you ; give me a
true anfwer.
Then follows this Oration.
BERALANENSXS, Balaachienfis, Paumachia, and Apologia Sedes, by the
moll mighty kings and powers, and the moft powerful princes, genii, Liachidse,
minifiers of the Tartarean feat, chief prince of the feat of Apologia, in the
ninth legion, I invoke you, and by invocating, conjure you ; and being armed
with power from the fupreme Majefty, I ftrongly command you, by Him who
fpoke and it was done, and to whom all creatures are obedient ; and by this
ineffable name, Tetragrammaton Jehovah, which being heard the elements
are overthrown, the air is lhaken, the fea runneth back, the fire is quenched,
the earth trembles, and all the hoft of the celeflials, and terreftrials, and in-
fernals do tremble together, and are troubled and confounded : wherefore, forth-
with and without delay, do you come from all parts of the world, and make
rational anfwers unto all things I fhall afk of you; and come ye peaceably, vifibly
and affably now, without delay, manifefling what we defire, being conjured
by the name of the living and true God, Helioren, and fulfil our commands,
and perfifl unto the end, and according to our intentions, vifibly and affably
fpeaking unto us with a clear voice, intelligible, and without any ambiguity.
Of the Appearance of the Spirits.'
THESE things being duly performed, there will appear infinite vifions,
apparitions, phantafms, &c. beating of drums, and the found of all kinds of
mufical inftruments ; which is done by the fpirits, that with the terror they
might force fome of the companions out of the circle, becaufe they can effedt
nothing againfi: the exorcifl himfelf : after this you fhall fee an infinite com-
pany
Part III. CEREMONIAL MAGIC.
pany of archers, with a great multitude of horrible beafts, which will ar-
range themfelves as if they would devour the companions ; neverthelefs fear
nothing.
Then the exorcift, holding the pentacle in his hand, let him fay. Avoid
hence thefe iniquities, by virtue of the banner of God. Then will the
fpirits be compelled to obey the exorcift, and the company ftiall fee them
no more.
Then let the exorcift, ftretching out his hand with the pentacle, fay.
Behold the pentacle of Solomon, which I have brought into your prefence ;
behold the perfon of the exorcift in the middle of the exorcifm, who is armed
by God, without fear, and well provided, who potently invocateth and call-
eth you by exorcifing ; come, therefore, with fpeed, by the virtue of thefe
names. Aye Saraye, Aye Saraye ; defer not to come, by the eternal names of
the living and true God, Eloy, Archima, Rabur, and by the pentacle of
Solomon here prefent, which powerfully reigns over you ; and by the virtue
of the celeftial fpirits, your lords ; and by the perfon of the exorcift, in the
middle of the exorcifm : being conjured, make hafte and come, and yield
obedience to your mafter, who is called Odtinomos. This being performed,
immediately there will be hidings in the four parts of the world, and then
immediately you ihall fee great motions; which when you fee, fay. Why
ftay you ? Wherefore do you delay ? What do you ? Prepare yourfelves to be
obedient to your mafter in the name of the Lord, Bathat or Vachat milling
upon Abrac, Abeor coming upon Aberer.
Then they will immediately come in their prbper forms ; and when you
fee them before the circle, ihew them the pentacle covered with fine linen
uncover it, and lay, Behold your confufion if you refufe to be obedient ; and
fuddenly they will appear in a peaceable form, and will fay, Aik what you
will, for we are prepared to fulfil all your commands, for the Lord hath
fubjefted us hereunto.
Then let the exorcift fay, Welcome fpirits, or moft noble princes; be
caufe I have called you through Him to whom every knee doth bow, both
of things in heaven, and things in earth, and things under the earth ; in
a.* whofe
1 1 THE KEY TO Book II*
whofe hands are all the kingdoms of ’kings, neither is there any able to con-
tradidl his Majefty. Wherefore, I bind you, that you remain affable and
vifible before this circle, fo long and fo conftant ; neither fhall you depart
without my licence, until you have truly and without any faliacy performed
my will, by virtue of his power who hath fet the fea her bounds, beyond
which it cannot pafs, nor go beyond the law of his providence, viz. of
the Molt High God, Lord, and King, who hath created all things* Amen.
Then let the exorcift mention what he would have done.
After which fay, In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of
the Ho^ Ghoft, go in peace unto your places ;
peace be between us and you
be ye ready to come when you are called. (For the figures of the circle,
pentacle, and other inflruments, fee the Plate.)
Now, that you may have an idea of the manner of compofing the circle,
we have given the fcheme of one for the firft hour of the. Lord's day,, in
fpring.
Here follow the Considerations and Conjurations/^ every Day
in the Week and firf of
The Considerations, &c. of Sunday.
(For the figure of the feals, planets, fgns, names of the angels of the feve-
ral days, and names of the fourth heaven, with the chara&ers and magic
book, fee the Plate.}
THE angels of the Lord’s day Micbaelt Dardiel,
Huratapcl.
The angels of the air ruling on the Lord’s day, Varcan, king ; —his minif-
ters, Tus, Andas, CynabaL
The wind which the angels of the air are faid to rule, is the north wind.
The angels of the fourth heaven ruling on the Lord s day, which fhould
be called from the four parts of the world, are,—eaft, Samael,
Baciel', Abel,
Gabrielx
Part III. CEREMONIAL MAGIC. II 7
Gabriel,
Vhnatraba ; —from the weft, Anael, Pabel, Uflael, Burchat, Sucera-
tos, Capabili ; —from the north, Aiel, Ariel, vel Aquiel, Mafgabriel, Saphiel,
Matuyel ; —at the fouth, Haludiel, Machafiel, Charjiel, Uriel, Naromiel.
The perfume of Sunday is Red Sanders.
The Conjuration for Sunday.
I CO.NJURE and confirm upon you, ye ftrong and holy angels of God,
in the name Adonai, Eye, Eyer Eya, which is he who was, and is, and
is to come. Eye, Abray y and in the name Saday, Cados, Cados, fitting on high
upon the cherubin and by the great name of God himfelf, ftrong, and pow-
erful, who is exalted above all the heavens ; Eye, Saraye, who created the
world, the heavens, the earth, the fea, and all that in them is, in the firft
day, and fealed them with his holy name Phaa ; and by the name of the
angels who rule in the fourth heaven, and ferve before the moft mighty
Salamia an angel great and honourable and by the name of his ftar,
which is Sol, and by his fign, and by. the immenfe name of the living Godr
and by all the names aforefaid, I conjure thee, Michael, O great angel ! who
art chief ruler of this day y, and by the name Adonai, the God of Ifrael, I
conjure thee, O Michael ! that thou labour for me, and fulfil all my petitions
according to my will and defire in my caufe and bufinefs.
The fpirits of the air of the Lord’s day are under the north wind ; their na-
ture is to procure gold, gems, carbuncles, diamonds, and rubies, and to caufe
one to obtain favour and benevolence, to diffolve enmities amongft men, to
raife to honours, and to take away infirmities. They appear, for the moft
part, in a large, full and great body, fanguine and grofs, in a gold colour, with
the tindure of blood. Their motion is like the lightning of heaven ; the lign
of their becoming vifible is that they move the perfon to fweat that calls them..*
but their particular forms are as follow y. viz,
A king, having a fcepter, riding on a lion,
A king crowned y a queen with a fcepter*
A bird j
1
1 T&E KEY T9 Book II.
A bird ; a lion ; a cock.
A yellow garment.
A fcepter.
Considerations, &c. of Monday.
(For the angel of Monday, his figil, planet, fign of the planet, and name of
the firft heaven, fee the Plate.)
THE angels of Monday Gabrieli Michael, Samael.
The angels of the air ruling Monday, Arcan king ; —his minifters, Bilef,
Mijfabiiy Abuhaza. The wind which thefe are fubjed: to is the weft wind.
The angels of the firft heaven, ruling on Monday, to be called from
the four parts of the world. From the eaft, Gabriel, Madiel, Deamie/,
fanak ; —from the weft, Sachiel, Zaniel, Habiely Bachance, Corobael —from
the north, Mael, Uvael, Valnum, Baliel, Balay, Humajtraw ; —from the fouth,
—Curaniel, Dabriel, Darquiel, Hamm, Vetnel.
The perfume of Monday Aloes.
The Conjuration of Monday.
I CONJURE and confirm upon you, ye ftrong and good angels, in the
name Adonaiy
Adonaiy Adonaiy Adonai, Eyey Eye, Eye ; Cados, Cados, Cados,
Achirn, Achim, Ja, Ja, ftrong Ja, who appeared in mount Sinai with the
glorification of king Adonai, Sadai, Zebaoth, Anathay Ya, Ya, Ya, Maranata,
Abim, Jeia, who created the fea, and all lakes and waters, in the fecond day,
which are above the heavens and in the earth, and fealed the fea in his high
name, and gave it its bounds beyond which it cannot pafs ; and by the names
of the angels who rule in the firjl legion, and who ferve Orphaniel, a great,
precious,, and honourable angel, and by the name of his ftar which is Luna, and
by all the names aforefaid, I conjure thee, Gabriel, who art chief ruler of
Monday, the fecond day, that for me thou labour and fulfil, c.
The
Part III. CEREMONIAL MAGIC. gm.
The fpirits of the air of Monday are fubjedt to the Weft wind, which is the
wind of the moon ; their nature is to give filver and to convey things from
place to place ; to make horfes fwift, and to difclofe the fecrets of perfons both
prefent and future.
'Their familiar Forms are asfollow :
They appear generally of a great and full ftature, foft and phlegmatic, of
colour like a black, obfcure cloud, having a fwoln countenance, with eyes
red and full of water, a bald head, and teeth like a wild boar ; their mo-
tion is like an exceeding great tempeft of the fea. For their fign there will
appear an exceeding great rain, and their particular fhapes are,
A king, like an archer, riding upon a doe.
A little boy.
A woman-hunter with a bow and arrows.
A cow ; a little doe ; a goofe. '
A green, or filver-coloured garment.
An arrow ; a creature with many feet.
Considerations o/'Tuesday.
(For the angel of Tuefday, his figil, planet, fign governing the planet,
and name of the fifth heaven, fee the Plate.)
THE angels of the air on Tuefday Samael, Satael, AmabieL
The angels of the air ruling on Tuefday, Samax, king; his Minifters, Car-
max, Ifmoli, Pajfran.
The wind to which the faid angels are fubjedt is the eaf wind.
The angels of the fifth heaven ruling on Tuefday.—At the eaft, Friagne,
Guely Damael, Calzas, Arragon ; —the. weft, Lamat AJlagna, Lobquiny So-
neasy Jazel, Ifiael, Irel ; —the north, Rbaumely Hyniel, Rayel, Seraphiely Fra-
del, Mathiel ; —the fouth, Sacriel, faniely Galdel, Ofaely Vianuely Zaliel.
The perfume of Tuefday Pepper.
120 THE KEY TO Book II,
The Conjuration of Tuesday.
I CONJURE arid call upon you, ye ftrong and good angels, in the names
Ya, Ya, Ya ; He, He, He ; Va, Hy, Hy, Ha, Ha, Ha j Va, Ya, Va ; An,
An, An ; Aia, Aia, Aia ; El, Ay, Elibra, Elohim, Elohim ; and by the names
of the high God, who hath made the fea and dry land, and by his word hath
made the earth, and produced trees, and hath fet his feal upon the planets,
with his precious, honoured, revered and holy name ; and by the name of the
angels governing in the fifth houfe, who are fubfervient to the great angel
Acimoy, who is ftrong, powerful, and honoured, and by the name of his flar
which is called Marst I call upon thee, Samael, by the names above mentioned,
thou great angel ! who prefides over the day of Mars, and by the name
Adonai, the living and true God, that you affift: me in accomplifiling my
labours, &c. fas in the conjuration of Sunday.)
The fpirits of the air on Tuefday are under the eafi: wind j their nature is to
bring or caufe war, mortality, death, combuftions, and to give two-thoufand
foldiers at a time ; to bring death, infirmity or health.
Familiar Forms of the Spirits of Mars.
THEY appear in a tall body and choleric, a filthy countenance, of colour
brown, fwarthy, or red, having horns like harts, and griffins claws, and bellow-
ing like wild bulls. Their motion is like fire burning : their fign thunder and
lightning round about the circle.
Their particular fhapes are, a king armed, riding on a wolf; a man armed.
A woman with a buckler on her thigh.
A fiie-goat , a horfe j a flag.
A red garment , a piece of wool ; a cowflip.
Con-
Part III* CEREMONIAL MAGIC, I2T
Considerations of Wednesday,
(For the angel of Wednefday his figil, ©V. &c. fee the Plate.)
THE angels of Wednefday—Raphael, Meil, Seraphiel.
The angels of the air ruling on Wednefday, Mediat, king ; Minifters, Suquinos,
Sallales the faid angels of the air are fubjedt to the fouth-wejl wind.
The angels of the fecond heaven, governing Wednefday, that are to be call-
ed, &c. At the eaft Mathlai, Tarmiel, Baraborat—at, the weft, yerufcue,
Merattron ;—at the north, Thiel, Rael, Jarihael, Venahel,
Velel, Abuiori, TJcir«
miel—at the fouth, Milliely Nelapa, Calvei, vel Laquel.
The perfume of Wednefday Majlic.
The Conjuration of Wednesday.,
I CONJURE and call upon you, ye ftrong and holy angels, good and pow-
erful, in a ftrong name of fear and praife, Ja, Adonay, Elohim, Saday, Saday,
Saday ; Eie, Eie, Eie ; Afamie, Afamie ; and in the name of Adonay, the God
of Ifrael, who hath made the two great lights, and diftinguifhed day from night
for the benefit of his creatures •> and by the names of all the difcerning angels,
governing openly in the fecond houfe before the great angel, Tetra, ftrong and
powerful ; and by the name of his ftar which is Mercury and by the
name of his feal, which is that of a powerful and honoured God ; and I call
upon thee, Raphael, and by the names above mentioned, thou great angel who
prefideft over the fourth day: and by the holy name which is written in
the front of Aaron, created the moft high prieft, and by the names of all the
angels who are conftant in the grace of Chrift, and by the name and place of
Ammaluim, that you affift me in my labours, &c. &c.
The fpirits of the air, on Wednefday are fubjedt to the fouth-weft wind j
their nature is to give all forts of metals, to reveal all earthly things paft, pre-
Book II. R fent.
THE KEY TO
5 22 Book IL
fent, and to come ; to pacify judges, to give vidlory in war, to teach experi-
ments and all fciences decayed, and to change bodies mixt of elements, con-
ditionally, out of one thing into another ; to give health or infirmities, to raife
the poor and caff down the rich, to bind or loofe fpirits, to open locks or bolts.
Such kinds of fpirits have the operations of others, but not in their perfect
power, but in virtue or knowledge.
Forms of the Spirits c/Mercury.
THE fpirits of Mercury appear in a body of a middle flature, cold, liquid
and moiffc, fair and of an affable fpeech, in a human fhape and form, like a
knight armed, of colour ciear and bright. The motion of them is like filvet
coloured clouds : for their fign they caufe horror and fear to him that calls
them.
Their particular fhape s are, a king riding upon a bear.
A fair youth ; a woman holding a diftaff.
A dog, a flie-bear, and a magpye.
A garment of various changeable colour* .
A rod, a little ftaffi.
j
>
Considerations of Thursday.
(For the angel of Thurfday, his figil, &c. fee the Plate.)
THE angels of Thurfday Sachiel, CaJJiel, Afafiel.
The angels of the air of Thurfday, Suth, king ; Ministers, Magutht
Gutrix.
The angels of the air are under the fouth-wind.:—(But becaufe there
are no angels of the air to be found above the fifth heaven, therefore, on
Thurfday, fay the prayers following in the four parts of the world :)
At the eafl—O Dens magne et excelfe et honorate, per infinitafecula ; or, O
great and raoft high God, honoured be thy name, world without end.
At
Part III; CEREMONIAL MAGIC, 123
At the weft-
—O wife, pure, and juft God, of divine clemency, I befeech
thee, moft holy Father, that this day I may perfectly underftand and accom-
plifh my petition, work, and labour; for the honour and glory of thy holy
name, who liveft and reigneft, world without end. Amen.
At the north—O God, ftrong, mighty, and wonderful, from everlafting
to everlafting, grant that this day I bring to effed: that which I defire,
through our bleffed Lord. Amen.
At the fouth—O mighty and moft merciful God, hear mv prayers and
grant my petition.
The perfume of Thurfday Saffron.
The Conjuration ^/"Thursday.
I CONJURE and confirm upon you, ye ftrong and holy angels, by the names
Cados, Cados, Cados, Efchereie, Efcherei,Efchereie, Hatim,Ya, ftrong founder
ofthe worlds ; Cantine, Jaym, Janie, Anic, Calbot, Sabbac, Berifay, Alnaym ;
and by the name Adonai, who created fillies and creeping things in the wa-
ters, and birds upon the face of the earth, flying towards heaven, in the fifth
day ; and by the names of the angels ferving in the fixth hoft before Paftor,
a holy angel, and a great and powerful prince and by the name of his ftar,
which is Jupiter, and by the name of his feal, and by the name of Adonai,
the great God, Creator of all things, and by the name of all the ftars, and
by their power and virtue, and by all the the names aforefaid, I conjure thee,
Sachiel, a great Angel, who art chief ruler of Thurfday, that for me thou
labour, &c
The fpirits of the air of Thurfday are fubje<ft to the fouth wind ; their
nature is to procure the love of women, to caufe men to be merry and joy-
ful, to pacify ftrifes and contentions, to appeafe enemies, to heal the difeafed,
and to difeafe the whole, and procure Ioffes, or reftore things loft.
J24 THE KEY TO Book II.
ThefamPiar Forms of the Spirits of Jupiter.
V '
The appear with a body fanguine and choleric, of a middle ftature, with
a horrible, fearful motion, but with a mild countenance, and a gentle fpeech,
and of the colour of iron : the motion of them is flafhings of lightning, and
thunder. For their fign there will appear about the circle men who {hall
feem to be devoured by lions. Their forms are,
A king, with a fword drawn, riding on a {lag.
A man, wearing a mitre, with long raiment.
A maid, with a laurel crown, adorned with flowers.
A bull ; a {lag -, a peacock.
An azure garment ; a fword ; a box-tree.
Considerations of Friday.
(For the feal planet, and fign governing the planet, and name of the third
heaven, fee the Plate.)
>
THE angels of Friday Anael, Rachiel, Sachiel.
The angels of the air ruling on Friday, Sarabotes, king ; Minifters, Ama-
hid. Aba, Abalidoth, Blaef. The wind which the angels of the air are fubjedt
to is the weft wind.
Angels of the third heaven, which are to be called from the four parts of
the world, are
At the ea ft, Setchiel, Cheduftamel, Corat, Tamuel, Tenaciel —at the weft.
Tun'd, Coniel, Babiel, Kadie, Maltiel, Huphaltiel —at the north, Penid,
Penael, Penat, Raphael, Rand, Doremiel ;—at the fouth, Porof
a, Sachiel,
Chermiel Samael, Santanael, Famiel.
The perfume of Friday—~Pepperwort,
The
(
Part III, CEREMONIAL MAGIC.
The Conjuration of Friday.
I CONJURE and confirm upon you, ye ftrong and holy angels, by the
names On, Hey, Heya, Ja, Je, Saday, Adonai, and in the name Sadat, who
created four-footed beafis, and creeping things, and man, in the fixth day,
and gave to Adam power over all creatures ; wherefore blefled be the name
of the Creator in his place ; and by the name of the angels ferving in the
third hoft> before Dagiel, a great angel, and a ftrong and powerful prince,
and by the name of his ftar, which is Venus, and by his feal which is holy;
and by all the names aforefaid, I conjure upon thee, Anael, who art the chief
ruler this day, that thou labour for me, &c.
The fpirits of the air on Friday are fubjed to the well wind; their na-
ture is to give filver, to incite men, and incline them to luxury, to caufe
marriages, to allure men to love women, to caufe or take away infirmities,
and to do all things which have motion.
Their familiar Shapes.
They appear with a fair body, of middle ftature, with an amiable and
pleafant countenance, of colour white or green, their upper parts golden
the motion of them is like a clear ftar. For their fign there will appear naked
virgins round the circle, which will ftrive to allure the invocator to dalli-
ance with them : but
Their particular Shapes are,
A king, with a fcepter, riding on a camel.
A naked girl ; a fhe-goat.
A camel ; a dove.
A white or green garment.
Flowers; the herb favine.
I26> Book II,
*
THE KEY TO
a
The Considerations of Saturday1
.
(For feal, &c. &c. fee the Plate.)
THE angels of Saturday Cajfiel, Machatan, Uriel.
The angels of the air ruling this day, Maymon, king ; Minifters, Abu-
malith, AJfaibi,
Balidet. The wind they are fubjedt to, xhefouth wind.
The fumigation of Saturday is fulphur.
There are no angels ruling in the air on Saturday above the fifth heaven,
therefore in the four corners of the world, in the circle, ufe thofe orations
which are applied to Thurfdav.
7he Conjuration of Saturday.
I CONJURE and confirm upon you, Caphriel, or Cafliel, Machator, and
Seraquiel, ftrong and powerful angels ; and by the name Adonai, Adonai,
Adonai ; Eie, Eie, Eie ; Acim, Acim, Acim; Cados, Cados ; Ima, Ima, Ima;
Salay, Ja, Sar, Lord and Maker of the World, who refted on the feventh day
and by him who of his good pleafure gave the fame to be obferved by the
children of Ifrael throughout their generations, that they fhould keep and
fandtify the fame, to have thereby a good reward in the world to come; and by
the names of the angels ferving in the feventh hoft, before Booel, a great
angel, and powerful prince ; and by the name of his ftar, which is Saturn
and by his holy feal, and by the names before fpoken, I conjure upon thee,
Caphriel, who art chief ruler of the feventh day, which is the Sabbath, that for
me thou labour, &c. &c.
The fpirits of the air on Saturday are fubjedl to the fouth-weft wind : the
nature of them is to fow difcords, hatred, evil thoughts and cogitations, to
give leave to kill and murder, and to lame or maim every member.
Their
Part III. CEREMONIAL MAGIC. I27
Theirfamiliar Shapes.
THEY generally appear with a tall, lean, flender body, with an angry
countenance, having four faces, one on the back of the head, one in the front,
and one on each fide, nofed or beaked, likewife there appears a face on each
knee of a black thining colour ; their motion is the moving of the wind,
with a kind of earthquake y their fign is white earth, whiter than fnow.
Their particular Shapes are,
* A king, bearded, riding on a dragon.
An" old man with a beard..
An old woman leaning on a crutch.
A hog ; a dragon ; an owl.
A black garment ; a hook or fickle.
A juniper tree.
Thofe are the figures that thefe fpirits ufually afiiime, which are generally
terrible at the firfi: coming on of the vifions, but as they have only a limited
power, beyond which they cannot pafs, fo the invocator need be under no
apprehenfions of danger, provided he is well fortified with thofe things we
have directed to be ufed for his defence, and above all, to have a firm
and conftant faith in the mercy, wifdom, and goodnefs of God.
* Thofe fpirits who appear in a kingly form, have a much higher dignity than them who take an
inferior (hape ;
and thofe who appear in a human fliape, exceed in authority and power them that come
as animals; and again, thefe latter furpafs in dignity them who appear as trees or inftruments, and the
like : fo that you are to judge of the power, government, and authority of fpirits by their afluming
a more noble and dignified apparition.
2ND OF THE THIRD PART, AND* OF CAE AUSTICAL AND CEREMONIAL M AGt C,
/
THE
MAGIC AND PHILOSOPHY
OF
HEMIUS OF SPAN HEIM
CONTAINING HIS BOOK OF
SECRET THINGS,
AND
DOCTRINE OF SPIRITS:
With many curious and rare Secrets (hitherto not generally known ;)
THE ART OF DRAWING SPIRITS INTO CRYSTALS, &e.
With many other Experiments in the Occult Sciences, never yet publiihed in the Englifh Language,
TRANSLATED FROM A VALUABLE LATIN MANUSCRIPT,
Br FRANCIS BARRETT,
STUDENT OP CHEMISTRY, NATURAL AND OCCULT PHILOSOPHY, THE CABALA, &C,
PART IV.
Book II, S
THE
MAGIC AND PHILOSOPHY
O F
The T'ranfators Letter to a Friend of his, a young Student in thefe
occult Sciences.
MY FRIEND,
jj^NOWING thee to be a curious fearcher after thofe fciences which are
out of the common track of ftudy, (I mean the art of foretelling events,
magic, telifmans, &c.) I am moved fpiritually to give thee my thoughts upon
them, and by thefe ideas here written, to open to thine eye (fpiritual) as
much information as it feems neceflary for thee to know, by which thou
mayeft be led by the hand into the deledtable field of nature ; and to give
thee fuch documents as, guided by the fupreme wifdom of the Higheft, thou
mayeft refrelh thy foul with a delicious draught of knowledge j fo that after
recreating thy fpirit with the ufe of thofe good gifs which may pleafe God to
beftow on thee, thou mayeft be wrapped up into the contemplation of the
immenfe wifdom of that great munificent Being who created thee.
Now, art thou a man, in whofe foul the image of Divinity is fealed for
eternity, think firft what is thy defire in the fearching after thefe myfteries !
Is it wealth, honour, fame, power, might, aggrandizement, and the like ?
Perhaps thy heart fays. All ! all thefe I would gladly crave ! If fo, this is
my anfwer,—feek firft to know thyfelf thoroughly, cleanfe thy heart from all
wicked, vain, and rapacious defires. Thinkeft thou, oh man ! to attain
power to gratify thy lifts, to enrich thy coffers, to build houfes, to raife thyfelf
to the pinnacle of human admiration ; if thefe are thy hopes and defires, thou
haft reafon to lament thy being born : all fuch defires are immediately from
S 2 the
THE TRANSLATOR'S LETTER Book II.
132
the devil, I mean that Being whofe engines (/. e. myriads of demons) are conti-
nually in the adt of placing fenfual delights and luxuries before the depraved
minds and hearts of man, and whofe chief bufinefs and property it is to
counteract the benevolent actions and infpiration of thofe blelfed fpirits who
are the inflruments of God our Creator.
Fear God and love thy neighbour] ufe no deceit, fwear not, neither lyc ;
let all thy adtions be fincere. Here, O man ! is the grand feal of all earthly
"wifdom, the true talifman of human happinefs. When thou (halt accom-
plifh this, behold nothing will be impoflible unto thee as far as God permits i
then with all fpeed apply thy mind and heart to attain knowledge and wif-
dom j with all humility throw thy dependance on God alone, the author of
all things that cannot die.
To know thyfelf is to know God, for it is a fpiritual gift from God that
enables a man to know himfelf. This gift but very few poflefs, as may be
daily feen. How many are there tolfed about to and fro’ upon the perilous fea
of contending paffions, and who are more light than feathers ! how many in
this great city who place their chiefeft good in debauchery and letchery ! See
their adtions, manners, and difpoftions thefe poor, unfortunate, miferable
wretches, fuch is their fatal magical infatuation and ignorance, that they
think thofe mad who might even attempt to reafon with them on the
vanity and mifery of their fituation. To make myfelf more intelligible, thefe
are what the world calls men of fafhion, a phrafe infignificant enough
when we confider that the univerfal falhion of this time is vice, and that
fo glaring, that it needs no great intelledt to difeover what is daily open to-
the view of the obferver. But to you, my friend, I have addreffed thefe
lines ] therefore let it not be fuppofed that I am reprehending my friend for
vices which I cannot fuppofe him attached to : for I know thou art a young
man defigned for the receiving of inftrudtion, in much higher and more
glorious contemplations than thofe fons of earth are capable of, therefore
I have prefented thee with this tranflation which thou didft delire me to
give thee.
But
'
Part IV. TO A FRIEND. 133
But beware of flattery, felf-Iove,and covetoufnefs, fo wilt thou thrive ; and be
diligent in thy occupation, fo /hall thy body be fed. Idlenefs is offenfive to
the Deity, induftry fhall fweeten thy brown bread, and the fruits of it fhallwarjm
thine heart, and infpire thy foul with gratitude to him that blefles thee with
enough : feek for no more, for it will damn thee ;
pray for enough to feed and
clothe thy body, but afk no more, leaf; thou pine away in heart-rending po-
verty, and fpend the remainder of thy days in contumely and beggary. For
know a thing moft neceflary for thee to know, that if by thy ftudy, by thy art,
or any other thing, thou couldft command a million offpirits, it thould not be
lawful for thee to with to gain riches fuddenly, for the Wifdom Eternal has
put forth the fiat ; and it has been faid by him who never fpoke in vain, and
who cannot lye, that man /ball get bread bv thefeeeat of his brow ; there-
fore let us not have in view the enriching of ourfelves in worldly goods, by fu-
pernatural means, or by a greedy defiring of what we ought to look upon with
eyes of contempt, draw upon us the wrath of God. Rather let us cheerfully
rely on, and follow in very deed, fpirit and truth, thefe words of the apoftle,
“ Seek ye firft the kingdom of God, and all thefe things {hall be added unto
you fear not but that God fhall make thy houfehold as a flourifhing tree,
and thy wife fhall be as a fruitful vine. Farewell, remember my poor counfel,
and be happy. From thy true friend, F. B.
N. B. To enable thee the better to comprehend this Book, I have drawn
out the various figures, of which mention is made in this work, that thou
mayeft fee the very exaCt method of working ;
likewife the images of feals,
fpirits, and various other rare, and curious inftruments, which are neceflary
for thee to know and fee with the eye ; therefore in the conftruCtion of
them thou canft not be liable to error.
Fig. 1. The form of the cryftal for invocating fpirits, with the plate of
pure gold in which the cryftal muft be faftened, with the divine characters
around.
Fig- 2,
134- A CAUTION TO THE INEXPERIENCED, &C« Book II.
Fig. 2. A magical circle (C DE F), ofa fimple conftru&ion, for the operator
to Hand or fit in when he calleth the fpirits.
Fig. 3. The cryftal (A), two filver or other candlefticks (G G,) with the
wax tapers burning, and tripod or vefiel for the oderiferous fuffumigation.
Fig. 4. A wand of black ebony with golden chara&ers. The chara&ers are
explained.
A Caution to the inexperienced in this Art, and a Word of Advice to
thofe who would be Adepts.
BROTHER,
IT is neceffary for me to inform thee, that whatever thy defires are in the
purfuit of this art, which we call Magic, fo wilt thy connexion and anfwer be.
If in the purfiiit of revenge, it is but proper thou fhouldeft know that thou
wilt, in any of thefe experiments he¥e laid down, draw to thyfelf a revengeful
demon, or an infernal furious fpirit, ferving in the principle of the wrath of
God ; if worldly riches and aggrandizement, then fhalt thou have an earthial
or fiery fpirit, which will delude thee with the riches of the central world;
if fame, or the blaze of glory, then the fpirits oj pride will bealloted thee, who
will gratify thy inordinate defire of vain glory ; for all thefe offices are there
fpirits allotted and will be eager to mix with thy fpirit : it will attradl thee to
his own nature, and ferve all thy purpofes according to the extent of God’s
permiffion ; and as thy defires are and from what principle they proceed, fo
fhalt thou be anfwered : but if thou defireft to know nothing but for the ho-
nour and glory of God, and the help of thy neighbour, and, in great humility,
fill thy heart with the love of God, thou fhalt then have a pure fpirit which
will
Part IV. TRITHEMIUS*S BOOK OF SECRETS, 5CC.
r
I
3S
will grant (by the Lord’s permifiion) thy delires. Therefore feek for that
which is good ; avoid all evil either in thought, word, or aCtion ; pray to God
to fill thee with wifdom, and then thou fhalt reap an abundant harveft.
There are two ways magically fet before thee ; chufe which thou wilt, thou
fhalt be fure of thy reward. Fareweh
London, 1800. F. B.
Ofthe making of the Crystal and the Form of Preparation for a
Vision.
PROCURE of a lapidary a good clear pellucid cryftal, of the bignefs of a
fmall orange, u e. about one inch and a half in diameter ; let it be glo-
bular or round each way alike ; then, when you have got this cryftal, fair and
clear, without any clouds or fpecks, get a fmall plate of pure gold to encom-
pafs the cryftal round one half> let this be fitted on an ivory or ebony pedeftal,
as you may fee more fully defcribed in the drawing, (fee the Plate, fig. 1
.) Let
there be engraved a circle (A) round the cryftal with thefe characters around
; afterwards the
name 4 * Letragrammaton” On the other fide of the plate let there be engra-
ven “ Michael, Gabriel, Uriel, Raphael which are the four principal angels
ruling over the Sun, Moon, Venus and Mercury ; but on the table on which the
cryftal ftands the following names, characters, &c. muft be drawn in
order.
Firft, The names of the feven planets and angels ruling them, with their
feals or characters. The names of the four kings of the four corners of the
earth. Let them be all written within a double circle, with a triangle
on a table j on which place the cryftal on its pedeftal : this being done,
thy
in fide the circle next the cryftal
& *
TRITHEMIUS’S BOOK Or
136 Book II.
thy table is complete (as in the Fig. D,) and fit for the calling of the fpirits;
after which thou fhalt proceed to experiment, thus
In what time thou wouldefl deal with the fpirits by the table and cryjlal
thou muft obferve the planetary hour ; and whatever planet rules in that hour,
the angel governing the planet thou fhalt call in the manner following ; but,
firfi, fay this fhort prayer:
“ Oh, God i wdio art the author of all good things, /Lengthen, I befeech
thee, thy poor fervant, that he may fland fafl, without fear, through this deal-
ing and work ; enlighten, I befeech thee, oh Lord ! the dark underflanding
of thy creature, fo that his fpiritual eye may be opened to fee and know thy
angelic fpirits defcending here in this cryflal :
(Then lay thy hand on the cryjlal
faying,) and thou, oh inanimate creature of God, be fandtified and confecrated,
and blefied to this purpofe, that no evil phantafy may appear in thee; or, if
they do gain ingrefs into this creature, they may be conftrained to fpeak intel-
ligibly, and truly, and without the leafl ambiguity, for Chrifl’s fake. Amen.
And forafmuch as thy fervant here /landing before thee, oh. Lord ! defires
neither evil treafures, nor injury to his neighbour, nor hurt to any living crea-
ture, grant him the power of defcrying thofe celeflial fpirits or intelligences,
that may appear in this cryflal, and whatever good gifts (whether the power
of healing infirmities, or of imbibing wifdom, or difcovering any evil likely to
afflidl any perfon or family, or any other good gift thou mayefl be pleafed to
beflow on me, enable me, by thy wifdom and mercy, to ufe whatever I may
receive to the honour of thy holy name. Grant this for thy fon Chrifl’s fake.
Amen”
Then taking your ring and pentacle, put the ring on the little finger
of your right hand ; hang the pentacle round thy neck ;
[Note, the pentacle may
be either wrote on clean virgin parchment, or engraven on a fquare plate of
filver and fufpended from thy neck to the breafl), then take your black ebony
wand, with the gilt characters on it and trace the circle, (Fig. 7. CDEFj)
faying, “ In the name of the blefied Trinity, I confecrate this piece of
ground for our defence ; fo that no evil fpirit may have power to break thefe
bounds prefcribed here, through Jefus Chrifl our Lord,” Amen.
Then
PartIV. SECRET THINGS, &C, I37
Then place the veflel for the perfumes between thy circle and the holy
table on which the crydal (lands, and, having fire therein, call in thy per-
fumes, faying
“ I conjure thee, oh thou creature of fire 1 by him who created all things
both in heaven and earth, and in the fea, and in every other place whatever,
that forthwith thou cad away every phantafm from thee, that no hurt what-
foever (hall be done in any thing. Blefs, oh Lord, this creature of fire, and
fanflify it that it may be blefled, and that they may fill up the power and virtue
of their odours ; fo neither the enemy, nor any falfe imagination, may enter
into them; through our Lord Jefus Chrift. Amen”
Now, this being done in. the order prefcribed, take out thy little book,
which mud be made about feven inches long, of pure white virgin vellum or
paper, likewife pen and ink mud be ready to write down the name, charatter,
and office, likewife the feal or image of whatever fpirit may appear (for this I
mud tell you that it does not happen that the (ame fpirit you call will always
appear, for you mud try the fpirit to know whether he be a pure or impure
being, and this thou (halt eafily know by a firm and undoubted faith in God.)-
Now the mod pure and fimple way of calling the fpirits or fpirit is by a fhort
oration to the fpirit himfelf,, which is more effedtual and eaiy to perform than
compofing a table of letters ; for all celedial operations, the more pure
and unmixed they are, the more they are agreeable to the celedial fpirits:
therefore, after the circle is drawn, the book, perfumes, rod, &c. in readinefs,
proceed as follows :
(After noticing the exad: hour of the day,, and what angel rules that hour,,
thou (halt fay,.)
In the name of the blefied and holy Trinity, I do defire thee,, thou drong
and mighty angel *, Michael, that if it be the divine will of him who i$ called
Tetragrammaton, &c. the Holy God, the Father, that thou take upon thee
fome (hape as bed becometh thy celedial nature, and appear to us vifibly here
in tlxis crydal, and anfwer our demands in as far as we (hall not tranfgrefs the
Book II.
* Qr any other angel or fpirit,
T bounds
TRITHEMIUS’S BOOK OF Book II.
x
3 8
bounds of the divine mercy and goodnefs. by requeding unlawful knowledge ;
but that thou wilt gracioudy fhew us what things are moil profitable for us to
know and do, to the.glory and honour of his divine Majedy, who liveth and
reigneth, world without end. Amen.
“ Lord, thy will be done on earth, as it is in heaven make clean our
hearts within us, and take not thy Holy Spirit from us.
“ O Lord, by thy name, we have called him, fuffer him to adminider unto
us. And that all things may work together for thy honour and glory, to
whom with thee, the Son, and bleded Spirit, be afcribed all might, majedy and
dominion. Amen."
Note, In thefe dealings, two fhould always be prefent ; for often a fpirit is
manifest to one in the crydal when the other cannot perceive him j therefore
if any fpirit appear, as there mod likely will, to one or both, fay,
“ Oh, Lord ! we return thee our hearty and fincere thanks for the hearing of
our prayer, and we thank thee for having permitted thy fpirit to appear unto
us which we, by thy mercy, will interrogate to our further inftrudtion, through
Ghrid. Amen"
Interrog. i. In the name of the holy and undefiled Spirit, the Father, the
begotten Son, and Holy Ghod, proceeding from both, what is thy true
name ?
If the fpirit anfwers, Michael, then proceed.
Qued. 2. What is thy office ? 3. What is thy true fign or character ?
4. When are the times mod agreeable to thy natdre to hold conference
with us ? i
Wilt thou fwear by the blood and righteoufnefs of our Lord Jefus Chrid, that
thou art truly Michael ?
(Here let him fwear, then write down his feal or character in thy book, and
againd it, his office and times to be called, through God’s name ; alfo write
down any thing he may teach thee, or any refponfes he may make to thy quef-
tions or interrogations, concerning life or death, arts or fciences, or any other
thing ;) and then dialt thou fay.
“ Thou
PartIV. SECRET THINGS, &C. 1 39
“ Thou great and mighty fpirit, inafmuch as thou cameft in peace and in
the name of the ever bleffed and righteous Trinity, fo in this name thou
mayeft depart and return to us, when we call thee in his name to whom every
knee doth bow down. Fare thee well, Michael y peace be between us, through
our bleffed Lord Jefus Chrift. Amen”
Then will the fpirit depart ; then fay, “ To God the Father, eternal Spirit,
fountain of Light, the Son, and Holy Ghoft, be all honour and glory, world
without end.. Amen ”
I fhall here fet down the Table of the names of Spirits and Planets govern-
ing the Hours ; fo thou fhalt eafily know by infpedtion, what Spirit and
Planet governs every Hour of the Day and Night in the Week*
Hours
Day.
Angels and
Planets
ruling
Sunday.
Angels and
Planets-
ruling.
Monday.
Angels and
Planets
-ruling
Tuesday.
Angels and
Planets
ruling
Wednesday
Rngels and
Planets
ruling
Thursday.
Angels and
Planets,
ruling
Friday.
Asgels and4
Planets
ruling
Saturday..
I
Day.
O Michael
Day.
D Gabriel
Day..
$ Samael
Day.
g Raphael
Day.
If Sachiel
Day.
? Anael
Day.
b Caffiel
2 $ Anael b Cafliel © Michael 4)
Gabriel $ Samael g Raphael If Sachiel
3 g Raphael H- Sachiel 2 Anael b Caffiel © Michael h Gabriel S Samael
4 D Gabriel J Samael £ Raphael If Sachiel 5 Anael b Caffiel © Michael
5 b Caffiel 0 Michael j) Gabriel $ Samael £ Raphael 14 Sachael £ Anael
6 If Sachiel ? Anael b Caffiel Q Michael "]) Gabriel <? Samael § Raphael
7 $ Samael g Raphael 74 Sachiel 2 Anael b Caffiel O Michael j Gabriel
8 O Michael D Gabriel £ Samael $ Raphael If Sachael 2 Anael b Caffiel
9 ? Anaed b Cafliel © Michael 5 Gabriel $ Samael ? Raphael If Sachiel 1
10 $ Raphael V- Sachiel’ £ Anael b Cafliel © Michael D Gabriel $ Samael
1 1 ]) Gabriel <? Samael £ Raphael If Sachiel 5 Anael b Caffiel O Michael
1 b Caffiel O Michael' h Gabriel $ Samael $ Raphael' If Sachiel 2 Anael
Hours
Night Night. Night. Night. Night. N.igkt. Night.'
1
Night.
1 14. Sachael 2 Anael 4-1 Ca,ffieh © Michael 5 Gabriel, $ Samael £ Raphael
2 $ Satniel $ Raphael If Sachiel $ Anael b Caffiel © Michael •j Gabriel
3 O Michael S Gabriel $ Samael. £ Raphael If Sachiel. 2 Anael b Caffiel
4 5 Anael b Caflieb Q Michael )) Gabriel $ Samael- g Raphael If Sachiel
5 $ Raphael! 14 Sachiel y Anael b Caffiel © Michael. J Gabriel $ Samael
6 D Gabriel $ Sitmael £ Raphael Of Sachiel 2 Anael b Caffiel © Michael
7 b Cafliel. O Michael D Gabriel. $ Samael g Raphael 14 Sachiel 2 Anael
8 14 Sachiel $ Anael b CalTiel © Michael D Gabriel. cf Samael g Raphael
9 $ Samael § Raphael If Sachiel 2 Anael b Caffiel © Michael J)
Gabriel
IO G .Michael P Gabriel $ bamael g Raphael If Sachiel 2 Anael b Cafliel
1.1 ? Anael b Cafliel © Michael ]) Gabriel $ Samael $ Raphael If hachiel
IX $ Raphael If Sachiel ? Anael b Caffiel © Michtiel D Gabriel $ Samael
T 2 Nate,
140 TRITHEMIUS’S BOOK OF SECRET THINGS. Book IJ
Note, The day is divided into twelve equal parts, called Planetary Hours,
reckoning from fun-rife to fun-fet, and, again, from the fetting to the
rifing; and to find the planetary hour, you need but to divide the natural
hours by twelve, and the quotient gives the length of the planetary hours and
odd minuets, which fiiews you how long a fpirit bears rule in that day j as
Michael governs the firfi: and the eighth hour on Sunday, as does the o. After
you have the length of the firfi: hour, you have only to look in the Table,
as if it be the fourth hour, on Sunday, you fee in the Table that the j and
Gabriel rules ; and fo for the refi: it being fo plain and eafy you cannot err.
THE CONCLUSION OF THE MAGUS.
ADVERTISEMENT.
THE Author of this Work refpeltfully informs thofe who are curious in the Jludies of Art and Nature, efpt-
cially of Natural and Occult Philofophy, Chemijlry, Ajlrology, (Sc. life. that ,
hawing been indefatigable in his
refearches into thofe fublime Sciences , of which he has treated at large in this Book, that he gives private
infiruftions and ledures upon any of the above-mentioned Sciences ; in the courfe of which he will dif
cover many
curious and rare experiments, Thofe who become Students will be initiated into the choicefe operations of Naiu-
ral Philofophy, Natural Magic, the Cabala, Chemijlry , the Talifmanic Art, Hermetic Philofophy, Aferology
Phyfognomy, &c.&c. Likewife they will acquire the knowledge of the Rites, Myfteries, Ceremonies, and
Principles of the ancient Philofophers, Magi, Cabalifs, Adepts, £sV.— The purpofe of this School (which
will conftft of no greater number than Twelve StudentsJ being to invefeigate the hidden treafures of Nature s to
bring the Mind to a contemplation of the Eternal Wifdom ;
to promote the difcovery of whatever may conduce
to the perfection of Man 1 the alleviating the miferies and calamities of this life, both in ref
peri of ourfelves
and others ; the fudy of morality and religion here, in order to fecure to ourfelves felicity hereafter ; and,
finally, the promulgation of whatever may conduce to the getteral happinefs and welfare of mankind. -
Thofe who feel tbemfelves thoroughly difpofed to enter upon fuch a courfe ofJludies, as is above recited, with the
fame principles ofphilanthropy with which the Author invites the lovers of philofophy and wifdom, to incor-
porate themfelves in fo feledl, permanent, and deferable a fociety, may fpeak with the Author upon the fubjeri,
at any time between the hours of Eleven and Two o'clock , at 99 Norton Street, MaTy-le-Bonne.
Letters (pofe paid) upon any fubjeCl treated of in this Book, vjill be duly anfwered, with the necejfary in-
formation.
ANTIQUA;
BIOGRAPHIA
O R,
AN ACCOUNT OF THE LIVES AND WRITINGS
OF THE ANCIENT AND MODERN
MAGI, CABALISTS, AND PHILOSOPHERS,
DISCOVERING THE
PRINCIPLES AND TENETS OF THE FIRST FOUNDERS
OF THE
MAGICAL AND OCCULT SCIENCES
WHEREIN THE MYSTERIES OF THE PYTHAGOREANS, GYMNOSOPHISTS, EGYPTIANS, BRAGMANNI,
BABYLONIANS, PERSIANS, ETHIOPIANS, CHALDEANS, ice. ARE DISCOVERED
Including a particular and interefting Account of
ZOROASTER, THE SON OF OROMASIUS,
THE FIRST INSTITUTOR OF PHILOSOPHY BY FIRE, AND MAGIC 5
t
LIKEWISE OF
HERMES TRISMEGISTUS, THE EGYPTIAN,
And other Philofophers ,
famous for their Learning,
Piety, and Wifdom.
TO WHICH IS ADDED,
A SHORT ESSAY,
Proving that the Firft Chriftians were Magicians, who foretold, acknowleged, and worfhipped
THE SAVIOUR OF THE WORLD,
AND
FIRST FOUNDER OF THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION
\
5
ZOROASTER, THE SON OF OROMASIUS,
FIRST INSTITUTOR OF PHILOSOPHY BY FIRE, AND MAGIC*
OROASTER, the fon of Oromafius, flourifhed in the reign of Darius,
the fucceffor of Cambyfes. * All authors are full of variarions in their
accounts of this famous perfon, fome making him of a much later date than
others; however, we fhall give what we have collected from thofe who
appear moft authentic, not omitting the traditional hiftory extant amongft the
Magi, with which our readers may compare the feveral ftories of biographers,
and accept that account which fhall feem to them the moft rational. Zo-
roafter, king of the Badtrians, was vanquifhed by Ninus, and paffedfor the in-
ventor of magic -f*.
Eufebius places this vidlory of Ninus in the feventh year of
Abraham :
* The Author regrets, that, notwithftanding his laborious refearches to obtain an authentic and
fatisfa&ory account of Zoroafter to prefent to his readers ;
that a few generals, and -not particulars,
can only be given : indeed, the moft ferious and refpetftable hiftorians differ fo widely in their accounts
of him, that nothing certain can from thence be deduced : however, we have above recited feveral
authorities to which we have annexed various notes and commentations.
-j- Faffed for the inventor of magic. —It is to be noted that he was the inventor of it, and the firft of
the magi. Juftin informs us that this victory was the laft of Ninus ;
that Zoroafter philofophized
moft judicioufly upon the nature and influences of the ftars, and on the principles of the univerfe.
Thomas Stanleius, Hift. of Philof. Orientalis, lib. I. cap. iii. informs us,_ that Zoroafter, according to
Eufebius, was cotemporary with Semiramis ; but it is certain, according to Eufebius, that he wr
as
vanquifhed by king Ninus. Arnobius, lib. i. pa. m. 5. fays, “ Anciently the Aflyrians and Badhians,
r‘
the former under the conduct of Ninus, and the latter under Zoroafter, fought againft each other,
“ not only with men and weapons, but alfo by the help of magic, and the fecret difeipline of the
“ Chaldeans.” Hermippus, who has wrote cautioufly on every thing relative to magic, and
explained twenty thoufand - verfes compofed by Zoroafter, relates, that one AzonaceB initiated
hkm
BIOGRAPHIA ANTIQUA.
144
Abraham ; now feveral authors make Zoroafter appear much earlier. It has
been reported that Zoroafter laughed on the fame day he was born,, and that
he
him into this art, and that he lived 5,000 years before the Trojan war. St. Auguftin and'
Orofius have followed the tradition mentioned by Juftin. Apuleius, in his Catalogue of all the
moft famous Magicians of Antiquity, with great juftice places Zoroafter in the firft rank, and.
proves him the moft ancient of all :
“ Magicarum artium fuijfe perbiieter inventor Zoroaftra." Auguftin,
de Civitat. Dei, lib. 21. cap. xiv. Eudoxus, who efteemed the art of magic to be accounted the nobleft
and moft; ufeful of all worldly knowledge, relates that Zoroafter lived fix thoufand years before the
death of Plato. Note, that the fame thing is affirmed by Ariftotle. Agathias, who lived in the reign
of Juftinian, informs us, that, accotding to the Perfians of that time, Zoroafter and Hyftafpes were
cotemporary ;
but they do not fay whether this Hyftafpes was father to Darius or any other. ,
Sir John
Marftiam politively decides that he was the father of Darius ;
and grounds his opinion on this, that one
of the elogies engraven on the tomb makes him the inftruftor of the Magi ; and that the fame hiftorian
who makes Hyftafpes excel in magic, calls him the father of Darius. Atnmianus Marcellinus, lib. 23,
pag. m. 324. fays, “ After the time of Zoroafter, reigned Hyftafpes, a very prudent king, and the
“ father of Darius. This prince, having boldly penetrated into the remoteft parts of the Upper India,
4‘ came at length to a folitary foreft, where there dwelt, in filent and awful tranquility, the Brachmans.
*' In this peaceful folitude they inftrufted him in the knowledge of the earth’s motion, likewife of the
“ liars ;
and from them he learned the pure and facred rites of religion. Part of this knowledge he
“ communicated to the Magi, which, together with the art of predicting future events, they delivered
41
down to pofterity, each in his own family. The great number of men who have defeended from
“ thefe families, ever fince that age down to the prefent, have all been fet apart for cultivating the
“ knowledge of the Gods.” But Ammian.us Mercellinus was wrong in faying, that this father of Da-
rius was a king ;
and no doubt he committed this blunder by having read in general that one king
Hyftafpes was a great magician, and thought there was no other Hyftafpes than the father of Darius.
But it is beyond difput.e, that one Hyftafpes, older than the foundation of Rome, and a great prophet. Is
mentioned by authors. “ Hyftafpes alfo, the moft ancient king of the Medcs, and from whom the river
“ Hyftafpes derives its name, is the moft admirable of them all ;
for, under the interpretation of the pro*
“ phecy of a boy, he informed pofterity that the Roman empire, nay, even the Roman name, Ihould be
“ utterly deftroyed; and this he predicted a long time before the eftablifhment of that colony of Trojans,”
Laftant. lib. VII. cap. xv. pag. m. 492. Juftin Martyr informs us, that he predifted the general con-
flagration of all penftiable things, Juftin Apolog. ii. pag. 66. It is affirmed that Pythagoras was Zo-
roafter’s difciple, under the reign of Cambyfes, the fon of Cyrus : the words of Apuleius inform us of
the raft. Some fay that Pythagoras having been made a Have in Egypt, was tranfported into Perfia
others will have him tranfported into Babylon, and there inftrufted by Zoroafter the Babylonian*
whom they diftinguifh from the Perfian. We find no lefs than five Zoroafters mentioned in hiftory : to
thefe five may be added a fixth, mentioned by Apuleius. This Zoroafter lived in Babylon at the time Py-
thagoras was brought thither by Cambyfes. The fame writer calls him “ the chief interpreter of all
divine myfteries,” and fay* that Pythagoras was chiefly inftrufted by him. He appears to be the fame
with
ZOROASTER, THE $ON OF OROMASIUS. *45
lie was the only one to whom this happened, and that the palpitation of his
brain was fo ftrong as to repulfe the hand, it being laid to his head, which they
fey was a prefage of his future knowledge and wifdom. It is added, that he
palled twenty years in the deferts, and there eat nothing but a fort of cheefe
which was never the worfe for age ; that the love of wifdom and juftice obliged
him to retire from the World to a mountain, where he lived in folitude; but
when he come down from thence there fell a celeftial fire upon it, which per-
petually burned; that the king of Perfia, accompanied with the greateft lords
of his court, approached it for the purpofe of putting up prayers to God ; that
Zoroafter came out from thefe flames unhurt ; that he comforted and encouraged
the Perfians, and offered facrifices for them to God ; that, afterwards, he did
Hot live indifferently with all forts of men, but only thofe who were born for
truth, and who were capable of the true knowledge of God, which kind of
people are called among the Perfians, Magi ; that he defired his end might be
this, viz. to be ftruck, with thunder, and con-fumed by celeftial fire ; and that
he requefted the Perfians to colled: his allies, after he was confumed in this
manner, and to preferve and venerate them as a pledge of the prefervation of
their monarchy ;
that they for a length of time paid great veneration to the
relics of Zoroafter, but at length, negleding them, their monarchy fell to
ruin and decay*. The Chronicle of Alexandria adds,, that having held this
difeourfe
with Zabratus, by whom Diogenes affirms Pythagoras was purged from all his former filth, and inftrudled
in what is effentially neceffary for good men to know, viz. God, nature, and philofophy : he is alfo
the fame with Nazaratus, the Aflyrian, whom Alexander, in his book of the Pythagorical fymbois,
affirms to have taught Pythagoras. The fame perfon Suidas calls Zares, GyrHius, Zaranes, and
Plutarch, Zarates.
* According to the tradition of the Magi, we fhall explain this fabulous and figurative defeription of
Zoroalter’s. end. The truth is, he enjoined the Perfians rigidly to perfevere in the laws he had framed,
and the do&rine he had been at the labour to eftablilh, which wa’s, to live in the pradfice of moral virtue,
to avoid all fpecies of luxury, to promote the liberal fciences, to govern all their adtions with prudence
and integrity, and to meet misfortune with refolution, and to encounter it with philofophy, and to endure
the unavoidable calamities of life with fortitude : thefe, his difeiplines, he left as a- precious relic among
them ; which while they ftridtly adhered to, they need be under no apprehenfion of tyranny and
U oppreffion %
146 BIOGRAPHI A ANTIQUA.
difcourle with them he invoked Orion, and was confuted by celeftia! £re„
Many will have it that Ham was the Zoroafler of the caflern nations, and the
inventor of magic. Mr. Bochart refutes this falflty. Cedrenus obferves that
Zoroafler, who became fo famous for wifdom among the Perfians, was defcended
from Belus : this imports that he was defcended from Nimrod. Some authors
have taken him for Nimrod ; others for Affur or Japhet. The ancient Perfians
believe that Zoroafler was before Mofes Some maintain he was the prophet
Ezekiel, and it cannot be denied that they ground their opinions on the agree-
ment of numerous particulars which belong to the one, and are related of the
other. George Hornius foolifhly imagines that he was the falfe prophet
Balaam. Huetius fhews that he was the Mofes of the Jews, and mentions an
infinite number of particulars in which the accounts we have of Mofes agree
with the flories related of Zoroafler.—How near all or any of thefe come to
the probability of truth will appear in the fequel, where we have given the
mofl probable and rational account of him, as far as we have been able to
trace, from the tradition of the Magi, which we prefer before the confufed
and partial accounts vulgarly extant. They who believe that Zoroafler pro-
oppreflion : —thefe they colledled, and for fome (pace of time religioufly followed the precepts of this
great philofopher: at length, human frailty and vice, corrupting their manners, caufed them to relax
from their duties, upon which their empire fell into ruin and decay. The idolatry falfely imputed to
this wife man, viz. his inftituting the worfhipping of fire, is thus to be interpreted.—Under the celeflial
fymbol of fire was meant truth : —truth he afcribed purely as the great and wonderful attribute of the
Godhead, which he acknowledged and worfliipped, to wit, one only God, the eternal fire of wifdom and
everlafting truth, juftice, and mercy !—His magic was the fludy of the religious worfhip of that Eternal
Being. After Zoroafler, there were four perfous chofen to educate the fucceffor of the king of Perfia.
They chofe the wifeft, the mofl juft, the moft temperate, and the braveft man that could be found. The
wifeft man {viz. one of the Magi), inftrudled him in Zoroafter’s magic, the juft in government, the brave in
war, and the temperate in focial virtue and temperance. Now obferve, that Zoroafler is called the fon of
Oromafius, and that Oromafius is the name given by Zoroafler and his diciples to the good God, and
this title was really bellowed upon him by the Perfians ; therefore, according to Plato, this Perfian
Magus, on account of his uncommon learning, religion, and wifdom, was, in an allegorical or figurative
manner, called the fon of God, or the fon of wifdom, truth, isfc.
* Some Magi affirm that he is the fame with Abraham, and frequently call him Ibrahim Zerdafcht,
which i», Abraham the friend of fire.
felTed
ZOROASTER, THE SON OF OROMASIUS. I4JT
fefied and taught a diabolical magic * are certainly in the wrong; the magic he
taught (of which we fhall fpeak more anon) was only the ftudy of the divine
nature, and of religious worfhip. Some have prefumed that Zoroafter was the
promulgator of a dodtrine of two principles -fv or two co-eternal caufes, one of
good
* The preceding note fully explains thoftr erroneous relations of the wifdom of the Magi. Thofe
svho defire to fee a great many paflages which teftify that the magic of the Perfians, inftituted by
Zoroafter, was the ftudy of religion, virtue, and wifdom, let them refer to Brijfonius Je Regno Perjarum,
lib. ii .p. 178, fcq. edit.. Commel. 159; ;
likewife Jul. Caefar, Bullengerus Eclog. ad Arnobium, p. 346,.
fcf feq. Nor are we ignorant that Gabriel Naude hath moft learnedly and folidly juftified our Zoroafter
againft the ignorant imputations ofnecromancy, black art,
+ It has been much contended by philofophers whether Zoroafter was the firft fuggefter of this
do&rine of the two principles: the one called by the Magi, Oromafes the good, and Arimanius the evil
principle. It is certain Zoroafter afferted the one, viz. that of the good, or an eflential uncreated felf
exiftent principle, the caufe cf all good, called by him Oromafus, meaning a good God, &c. In refpeft’
of the other principle, Arimanius, we muft, before we decide either for or againft Zoroafter, confider
the nature of the thing in its moft impartial fenfe.
Thofe who ever read Mr. Bernard’s Journal {Nouve/lts de la Republique Jes hettre's,
Feb. 17OT, and March
1701, Art. Hi. 1. i.) needs not be informed that the Hiftoria Religionis veterum Perfarum, publillied by
Dr. Hyde (profeflbr of the oriental languages in the univerfity of Oxford) at Oxford, in the year 1700^
4to» is one of the moft excellent pieces that could poflibly be written on fuch a fubjed. The idea which
the learned journalift hath given of this performance is fufficient to convince us that it contains a very
curious erudition, and profound difeuflions, which difeover many rare and uncommonqjarticulars of a
country which we fcarce knew any thing of before. But to come to the point : Dr. Hyde alfirms, that
the ancient Perfians acknowledge no more than one uncreated principle, which was the good principle,
or, in one word, God : and that they looked upon the evil principle as a created being. One of the
names, or attributes, which they gave to God, was Hormizda ;
and they called the evil principle,
Ahariman ; and this is the original of the two Greek words, tyopArtic and Amipwios .
0 ne of which was
the name of the good, and the other of the evil, principle, as we have feen above, in a paffage of
Plutarch. The Perfians affirmed that Abraham was the firft founder of their religion. Zoroafter
afterwards made fome alterations in it ;
but it is faid he made no manner of change with relation to the
dotftrine of one foie uncreated principle, but that the only innovation in this particular was the giving
the name of Light to the good principle, and that of Datknefs to the evil one-. ,
From a mifeonftruftion put upon the dodtrine of the Magi, fome confiderahlo mifreport3- of their tenets
h^ve been propagated : I think none more curious than the following—“ That a war arofe betwixt the
army of light and that of datknefs, which at laft ended in an accommodation, of- which the angels were
mediators, and the conditions were that the inferior world (hould be wholly left to the government of
Arimanius for the fpace of 7000 years, after which it fhould be reftored to light. Before the peace,
Arimanius had exterminated all the inhabitants of the world. Light had called men to its affiftance while
\J 3 they
148 BIOGR APHIA ANTIQUA.
good, the other of evil things. Of this do&rine Plutarch takes notice : he fays,
**
that Zoroafter the magician, who is faid to have lived five thoufand years
“ before the Trojan war, called the good God, Oromazes, and the evil, Arima-
“ nius, &c. &c.” See Plut. de Ifide & Ofiride, page 369.
Dr. Hyde, in his excellent treatife on the religion of the ancient Perfians,
cites fome authors who clear him on this head. We fhall examine whether
they deferve credit. It is affirmed that he was no idolater, either with refpedt
to the worfhip of fire, or that of Mithra % What appears leafi: uncertain,
r amongft:
they were yet but fpirits ; which it did, either to draw them out of Arimanius’ territories, or in order to
give them bodies to engage againft this enemy. They accepted the bodies and the fight, on condition
they fhould be affilled by the light, and fhould at laft overcome Arimanius. The refurreftion fhall come
when he fhall be vanquished. This they conclude was the caufe of the mixture, and fhall be the caufc
of the deliverance. The Greeks were not ignorant that Zoroafter taught a future refurredtion.
* The ancient Perfian Magi never did divine honours to the fun or any of the ftars. They maintain
they do not adore the fun, but diredt themfelves towards it when they pray to God. It has been found
amongft Zoroaftcr’s fecret precepts, that we ought to falute the fun, but not that we fliould adore him
with religious worfhip. He proves that their ceremonies might very juftly pafs for civil honours, and to
this purpofe he makes fome exceeding curious obfervations. He applies to the fire what he fays of th e
fun. The bowings and proftrations of the Perfians before the holy fire were not a religious obfervation,
but only a civil one. The fame thing muft be attributed to their reported worfhip of fire, which, as I
have faid above, they kept in their Pyrea in imitation of the Jews. For though they paid a certain reve-
rence to the fire, and that by proftration, yet this was not a religious, only a civil, worfhip ;
as it is from
the force of cuftom tisat the eaftern people proftrate themfelves before any great man ;
(fo they might
with as much propriety be faid to adore or worfhip him.) Believe me we ought to be the laft to cenfure
the eaftern people with fuch grofs idolatry as has been reprefented. The Perfians, who have always
been devoted to the higheft ftudy of wifdom, performed their duties in life for the honour of their God ;
and, although unenlightened and Barbarians, lived as men, and not as irrational creatures: whereas we,
who know our duty fo well, yet pra£life it fo ill : for I may tftily fay, that notwithftanding the great
benefits we derive from the divine precepts of Chriftianity, yet I believe it will be found an incontro-
vertible fa£l that man to man is a ferpent, a few individuals excepted. But to return to our fubjedt:
It was the ancient cuftom to fall proftrate to nngels, as being the meffengers and reprefentatives of God.
Befides, there are many examples of this kind of worfhip, not only in the Old, but New Teftamcnt, where
the women who had been converted to the true faith, upon feeing the angels at the fepulchre of Chrift,
fell with their faces to the ground and worfhipped. Yet they well knew that it was not God they faw,
but his angels, as appears from their own confeffion— we have feen a vifion of angels.” Therefore
they are wrongfully called Idolaters and worfhippers of fire, for Zoroafter was the inftrument of their
continuation in the true faith. He was a man who had the knowledge of the true God, whom he
peculiarly
ZOROASTER, THE SON OF OROMASIUS. m
amongft To many things that are related of him is, that he was the introducer
of a new religion into Perlia, and that he did it about the reign of Darius the
fuccefior of Cambyfes : he is ftill in great veneration among thofe Perfians
who are not of the Mahometan religion, but ftill retain the ancient worfhip of
their country. They call him Zardhuft, and feveral believe that he came
from China, and relate many miraculous things on that head. Several authors
affirm, that all the books publifhed hitherto under Zoroafter’s name, fome of
which are yet extant, are fuppofititious. Dr. Hyde difients from this opinion.
.Suidas affirms, that there were extant four books of Zoroafter : the firft,
“ Of
Nature,” a book of the Virtues of precious Stones, called de Gemmis j and five
books of Aftrology and Aftronomy, “ Praedidliones ex Infpedtione Stellarum.”
It is very likely that what Pliny relates, as quoted from Zoroafter, was taken
from thofe books, Plin. lib. xviii, cap. 24. Eufebius recites a paflage which
contains a magnificent defcription of God, and gives it as the very words of
Zoroafter in his facred commentary on the Perfian rites. Clemens Alexandri-
nus fays, that the followers of Prodicus boafted of having the feerets or fecret
books of Zoroafter. But moft likely he meant that they boafted of having
the fecret books of Pythagoras. They were printed, together with the verfes
of the Syhils at Amfterdam, in the year 1689, according to Opfopasus’s edition,
Oracula Magica Zoroaftris, cum Scholiis Plethonis & Pfelli.
peculiarly worfhippcd in a natural cave, in which he placed feveral fymbols reprefenting the world
Mithra, reprefenting the fun, filled the mafter’s place. But it was not Mithra, but the true God, that
he adored: and, laftly, as he was a true philofopher, a profound alchemift, greatly informed in all the
arts of the mathematics, flridt and auflere in his religion, he ftruck the Perfians with an admiration of
him, and by thefe means made them attentive to his do&rine. The fum of all is, that he lived in a cave,
dedicated to the fervice of God, and the ftudy of all natural and fupernatural knowledge ; that he was
divinely illuminated, knew the courfes of the ftars, and the occult and common properties of all com-
pounded and earthly things ; that by fire and Geometry (/. e. by Chemiftry and the Mathematics) he
inveftigated, proved, and demonftrated, the truth and purity, or elfe the fugac'ty and vilenefs, of all
things knowable in this mortal ftate of humanity. So that the fame, fagacity, wifdom, and virtue of
Zoroafter induced fome certain men wickedly and fraudulently to impofe upon the unwary fome falfe
magical oracles, and diabolical inventions, written in Greek and Latin, fsV, as the genuine works of the
divine and illuftrious Zoroafter. <
HERMES,
BI06RAPHIA ANTIQUA.
^50
v
HERMES, SURNAMED TRISMEGISTUS,
OR THE
THRICE GREATEST INTELLIGENCER.
HERMES Trifmegiftus, (who was the author of the divine Pymander and
fome other books,) lived fome time before Mofes. He received the
name of Trifmegiftus, or Mercurius ter Maximus, i. e. thrice greateft Intel-
ligencer, becaufe he was the firft intelligencer who communicated celeftiai
and divine knowledge to mankind by writing.
He was reported to have been king of Egypt : without doubt he was an
Egyptian j nay, if you believe the Jews, even their Mofes ; and for the juf*
tification of this they urge, ift. His being well lkilled in chemijlry nay, the
firft who communicated that art to the fons of men ; 2dly, They urge the
phtlofophic work, viz. of rendering gold medicinal, or, finally, of the art of
making aurum potabile ; and, thirdly, of teaching the Cabalay which they lay
was Ihewn him by God on Mount Sinai : for all this is confefied to be origi-
nally written in Hebrew, which he would not have done had he not been an
Hebrew, but rather in his vernacular tongue. But whether he was Mofes
or not*, it is certain he was an Egyptian, even as Mofes himfelf alfo was;
and therefore for the age he lived in, we lhall not fall fhort of the time if we
conclude he flourished much about the time of Mofes ; and if he really was
not the identical Mofes, affirmed to be fo by many, it is more than probable
that he was king of Egypt ; for being chief philofopher, he was, according
* The Cabalifts of the Hebrews affirm that Mofes was this Hermes ;
and although meek, yet was a
man poffefled of the moft ferious giavity, and a profound fpeculator in chemiftry and divine magic ;
that he, by divine infpiration on the mount, became acquainted with the knowledge of all the natural
and fecret operations of nature j that be taught the tranfmutation of metals fer Cabala,
i. t. by oral
tradition, to the Jews.
to
HERMES TRISMEGISTUS. 15!
to the Egyptian cuftom, initiated into the myfteries of priefthood, and from
thence to the chief governor or king.
He was called Ter Maximus, as having a perfect knowledge of all things
contained in' the world ( as his Aureus, or Golden Tradlate. and his Divine
v
Pymander fhews,) which things he divided into three kingdoms, viz. animal,
vegetable, and mineral ; in the knowledge and comprehenfion of which three
he excelled and tranfmitted to pofterity, in enigmas and -fymbols, the profound
fecrets of nature ; likewife a true defcription of the Philofopher s Quinteffence,
or Univerfal Elixir,
which he made as the receptacle of all celeftial and
terreftrial virtues. The Great Secret of the philofophers he difcourfed on,
which was found engraven upon a Smaragdine table, in the valley of
Ebron.
Johannes Fundtius, in his Chronology fays, he lived in the time of Mofes,
twenty-one years before the law was given in the wildernefs. Suidas feems
to confirm it by faying, “ Credo Mercurium Trifmegiftum fapientem Egyp-
“ tium fioruifie ante Pharaonem.” But this of Suidas may be applied to r
feveral ages, for that Pharaoh was the general name of their kings ; or pof-
fibly it might be intended before the name of Pharaoh was given to their
kings, which, if fo*, he makes Trifmegiftus to exift 400 years before Mofes,
yea, before Abraham’s defcent into Egypt. There is no doubt but that he
pofleifed the great fecret of the philofophic work ; and if God ever appeared
in man, he appeared in him, as is evident both from his books and his Py.
mander ; in which works he has communicated the fum of the abyfs, and the
divine knowledge to all pofterity ; by winch he has demonftrated himfelf to
have been not only an infpired divine, but alfo a deep philofopher, obtaining
his wifdom from God and heavenly things, and not from man.
* According to the beft authorities to be taken, Hermes Trifmegiftus lived in the time of Pharaoh,
Ifrael’s tyrant and oppreffor, and was not the fame with Mofes who oppofed Jannes and Jambres.
APPOL-
1 5s BIOGRAPHIA ANTIQUA.
APPOLLONIUS OF TYANA,
WITH SO MS ACCOUNT OF HIS
REMARKABLE MIRACLES, PROPHECIES, VISIONS, RELATIONS, &c. &e.
^^PPOLLONIUS Tyanaeus, was one of the moft extraordinary perfons
,
that ever appeared in the world. He was bom at Tyana in Cappado-
cia, towards the beginning of the firft century. At fixteen years of age he
became a rigid difciple of Pythagoras, renouncing wine, jlejh, and women,
wearing no fhoes, and letting his hair and beard grow long, and cloathing
himfelf only in linen : foon after he became a reformer, and fixed his abode
in a temple of iEfculapius, where many fick perfons reforted to be cured by
him. Being come to age, he gave part of his eftate to his eldeft brother,
and diftributed another part to his poor relations, and kept back only a very
fmall (hare to himfelf. He lived fix years without fpeaking a word, notwith-
ftanding during this filence he quelled feveral feditions in Cecilia and Pam-
philia ; that which he put a flop to at Afpenda was the moft difficult of all
to appeafe, becaufe the bufinefs was to make thofe hearken to reafon whom
famine had driven to revolt : the caufe of this commotion was, fome rich
.men having monopolized all the corn^ occafioned an extraordinary fcarcity in
the city } Appollonius flopped this popular commotion, without fpeaking a
word to the enraged multitude : Appollonius had no occafion for words ; his
Pythagoric filence did all that the fineft figures of oratory could efFedt. He
travelled much, profefied himfelf a legiflator ; underflood all languages,
without having learned them : he had the furprifing faculty of knowing
what was tranfadled at an immenfe diftance, and at the time the Emperor
Domitian was ftabbed, Appollonius being at a vaft diftance, and Handing in the
market-place of the city, exclaimed, “ Strike ! ftrike !—'tis done, the tyrant
is
APPOLLONIUS OF TYANA. m,
is no more.” He underftood the language of birds ; he condemned dancing,
and other diverfions of that fort; he recommended charity and piety; he
travelled almoffc over all the countries of the world ; and he died at a very
great age. His life has been fully related by Philoftratus ; but it contains fo
many fabulous relations that we do not pretend to introduce them in this
place. There are many who have very readily oppofed the miracles of this
man to thofe of Chrift, and drew a parallel between them. It cannot be
denied that this philofopher received very great honours, both during his life
and after his death ; and that his reputation continued long after paganifm.
He wrote four books of Judicial Aftrology, and a Treatife on Sacrifices,
Ihewing what was to be offered to the Deity.
* We mufl not omit a circumftance which tends to the honour of this ve-
* nerable perfon. It is related that Aurelius had come to a refolution, and
* had publickly declared his intentions, to demolifh the city of Tyana ; but
* that Appollonius-of Tyana, an ancient philofopher, of great renown and au-
* thority, a true friend of the gods, and himfelf honoured as a deity, appear-
* ed to him in his ufual form as he retired into his tent, and addrelfed him
* thus :
—“ Aurelian, if you defire to be victorious, think no more of the
4t
deftruCtion of my fellow-citizens ! Aurelian, if you defire to rule, abftain
“ from the blood of the innocent !
Aurelian, if you will conquer, be mer-
“ ciful !” Aurelian being acquainted with the features of this ancient phi-
*
lofopher, having feen his image in feveral temples, he vowed to ereCt a
*
temple and flatues to him ; and therefore altered his refolution of facking
* Tyana. This account we have from men of credit, and have met with it
4
in books in the Olpian library ; and we are the more inclined to believe
* it on account of the dignity of Appollonius ; for was there ever any thing
4
among men more holy, venerable, noble, and divine than Appollonius ?
4
He reftored life to the dead ; he did and fpoke many things beyond hu-
* man reach ; which whoever would be informed of, may meet with many
* accounts of them in the Greek hiflories of his life.’ See Vopifcus in Au-
relian, cap. 24.
X Laftly,
1
54 biographia antiqua. f
Laflly, the inhabitants of Tyana built a temple to their Appollonius after
his death ; his flatue was eredted in feveral temples : the Emperor Adrian
collected as many of his writings as he poffibly could, and kept them very
feledf, in his fuperb palace at Antiumy with a rare but fmall book of this
philofopher’s, concerning the Oracle of Trophonius. This little book was to
be feen at Antmm during the life of Philoftratus ; nor did any curiofity what-
ever render this fmall town fo famous as did this rare and extraordinary
book of Appollonius.
It is reported that a wife prince of the Indians, well {killed in magic, <
made feven rings of the feven planets, which he bellowed upon Appollonius, one
of which he wore every day j by which he always maintained the health and
vigour of his youth, and lived to a very advanced age. His life was tranf-
lated from the Greek of Philofratus into French, by Blaife de Vignere^,
with a very ample commentary by Artus Thomas, Lord of Embry, a Pa-
rifian ; and fome time fince there has been made an Englifh tranflation of his
life, which was condemned, prohibited, and anathematized without reafon.
PETRUS
[ 05 ]
PETRUS de ABANO, or PETER of APONA,
DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY AND PHYSIC, feV. &C. &C.
p-ETRUS APONENSIS, or Aponus, one of the moft famous philofophers
and phylicians of his time, was born A. D. 1250, in a village, fituated four
miles from Padua. He ftudied a long time at Paris, where he was promoted
to the degrees of Doctor in philofophy and phylic, in the practice of which he
was very fuccefsful, but his fees remarkably high. Gabriel Naude, in his
Antiquitate Scholce Medicce Parifienjis,
gives the following account of him
** Let us next produce Peter de Apona, or Peter de Abano, called the
“ Reconciler, on account of the famous book which he published during
“ his refidence in your univerfity —It is certain that phyfic lay buried in
“ Italy, fcarce known to any one, uncultivated and unadorned, till its tutelar
genius, a villager of Apona, deftined to free Italy from its barbarifm and
“ ignorance, as Catnillus once freed Rome from the liege of the Gauls, made
“ diligent enquiry in what part of the world polite literature was moll happily
“ cultivated, philofophy moll fubtilly handled, and phylic taught with the
“ greateft folidity and purity; and being allured that Paris alone laid claim to
“ this honour, thither he prefently flies
;
giving himfelf up wholly to her tutelage,
<(
he applied himfelfdiligently to the myfteries of philofophy and medicine; ob-
**
tained a degree and the laurel in both ; and afterwards taught them both with
“ great applaufe : and after a flay of many years, loaden with the wealth acquired
“ among you, and, after having become the moft famous philofopher, aftrologer,
phyfician, and mathematician of his time, returns to his own country, where,
* Naude fakes notice of this in a fpeech io which he extols the ancient glory of the univerfity of
Paris. We have, above, recited his words at length, becaufe they incidentally inform us, that Peter de
Abano compofed that great work at Paris which procured him the apellation of the Reconciler.
X 2. in
BIOGR APHI A ANTJQUA.
“ in the opinion of the judicious Scardeon, he was the firft reflorer of true
“ philofophy and phyfic. Gratitude, therefore, calls upon you to acknowledge
“ your obligations due to Michcel Angelus Blondus, a phyfician of Rome, who-
S£
in the laft century undertaking to publilh the Conciliationes Phyjiognomicce
“ of your Aponenfian dotftor, and finding they had been compofed at Paris'
(<
and in your univerfity, chofe to publifh them in the name, and under the
“ patronage, of your fociety.” ’Tis faid, that he was fufpedted of magic
and
* Naude, in his Apology for great Men accufed of Magic fays, “ The general opinion of almoft all
“ authors is, that he was the greateft magician of his time ;
that by means of feven fpiiits, familiar, which
(<
he kept inclofed in chryftal, he had acquired the knowledge of the feven liberal arts, and that he had
“ the art of cauling the money he had made ufe of to return again into his pocket. He was accufed of
,4
magic in the eightieth year of his age, and that dying in the year *305, before his trial was over, he
“ was condemned (as Cajlellan reports) to the fire ;
and that a bundle of ft raw, or ofier, reprefenting his
“ perfon, was publicly burnt at Padua ;
that by fo rigorous an example, and by the fear of incurring a
“ like penalty, they might fupprefs the reading of three books which he had compofed on this fubjedt r
“ the firft of which is the noted Heptameron,
or Magical Elements of Peter de Abano,
Pbilofopber,
now extant,.
“ and printed at the end of Ag’ippa's works; the fecond, that which Trithemius calls Elucidarium
“ Necromanticum Petri de Abano ;
and a third, called, by the fame author. Liber experimentorum mirabilium
“ de Annulis fecundem,
28 Manfiom Lunee Now it is to be noted, that Naude lays no ftrefs upon thefe
feeming ftrong proofs ;
he refutes them by immediately after affirming, that Peter of Apona was a man
of prodigious penetration and learning, living in an age of darknefs which caufed every thing out of
the vulgar track to be fufpedled as diabolical, efpecially as he was very much given to ftudy, and
acquainted with the harmony of the celeftial bodies and the proportions of nature, and addicted to
curious and divinatory fcience. “ He was one (fays he) who appeared as a prodigy of learning amidft
“ the ignorance of that age, and who, befides his (kill in languages and phyfic, had carried his enquiries
“ fo far into the occult fciences of abftrufe and hidden nature, that, after having given moil ample
“ proofs, by his writings concerning phyfiognomy, geomancy, and chiromancy, what he was able to
“ perform in each of thefe, he quitted them all together with his youthful cupofity to addidl himfelf
“ wholly to the ftudy of philofophy, phyfic, and aftrology ;
which ftudies proved fo advantageous to
“ him, that, not to fpeak of the two firft, which introduced him to all the popes and fovereign pontiffs
“ of his time, and acquired him the reputation which at prefent he enjoys among learned men, it
44
is certain that he was a great mafter in the latter, which appears, not only by the aftronomical figures
“ which he caufed to be painted in the great hall of the palace at Padua, and the tranflations he made
“ of the books of the moft learned Rabbi Abraham Aben Ezra, added to thofe which he himfelf compofed
41
on critical days, and the improvement of aftronomy, but by the teftimony of the renowned mathema-
41
tician Regio Montanus, who made a fine panegyric on him, in quality of an aftrologer, in the oration
44
which he delivered publicly at Padua when he explained there the book of Afraganus Now, many
refpe&able authors are of opinion that it was not on the fcore of magic that the Inquifition fentenced
PETRUS DE ABANO. W
and perfecuted otT that account by the Inquifition : and it is probable that,
if he had lived to the end of his trial, he would have fuffer^d in perfon what
he was fentenced to buffer in effigy after his death. His apologifts obferve,
that his body, being privately taken out of his grave by his friends, efcaped
the vigilance of the Inquifitors, who would have condemned it to be burnt.
He was removed from place to place, and at laft depofited in St. Augujliri
Church, without Epitaph, or any other mark of honour. His accufers
afcribed inconfiflent opinions to him;, they charged him with being a magician,
and yet with denying the exigence of fpirits. He had fuch an antipathy to
milk, that the very feeing any one take it made him vomit. He died in the
year 1316* in the fixty-fixth year of his age- One of his principal books
was the Conciliator, already mentioned.
him to death, but becaufe he endeavoured to account for the wonderful effedls in nature by the influence
of the celeflial bodies,
not attributing them to angels or daemons ;
fo that herefy, inftead of magic, feems to
have been the ground of his falling under the tyranny of the fage fathers of the Roman Cotholic faith, •
as being one who oppofed the dodlrine of fpiritual beings.
* If this be true as we read in Tomaflni, in Elog. Vilor. llluflr. p. 22, Naude muft be miftakcn where
he fays, that “ Peter Aponus being accufed at the age of 80 years, died A. D. 1305.” Freherus affirms
the fame upon the authority of Bernardin Scardeon. Geflier is miftaken in making Peter Aponus flourifli
in the year 1320. Konig has copied this error. But Father Rapin is much more grofsly miftaken than
any of them when he places him in the fifteenth century, faying,. “ Peter of Apona, a phyfician of Padua
« who flouri (bed under Clement VII, debauched his imagination fo far by reading the Arabian philofo-
** phers, and by too much ftudying the aftrology of Alfraganus, that he was put into the Inquifitiom
upon the fufpicion of magic, &c.” See Rapin Reflex. Jur la Pbilofophice, n. 28, p. 360. Fofflus has
followed Gefntr, and makes an obfervation worthy to be conlidered. He fays, that Peter of Apona fent
his book, De Medicina Qmmmoda, to pope J'>hn XXII, who was eledted in the year 1316, and held the
Pontifical Chair feventeen years. By this we know the age of this phyfician. But if the year 1316
was that of his death, the conclufion is unjuft ; neither does it clear. Fofflus of an error.
APULEIUS,
BIOGR APHIA ANTI QUA*
APULEIUS,
THE PLATONIC PHILOSOPHER.
J
UCIUS APULEIUS, a Platonic philofopher, publicly known by the fa-
mous work of the Golden Afs lived in the fecond century under the Anto-
nines. He was a native of Madaura, a Roman colony in Africa’, his family
was confiderable ; he had been well educated, and pofTeffed a graceful exterior j
he had wit and learning ; but was fufpedted of magic. He ftudied firft at
Carthage, then at Athens, and afterwards at Rome where he acquired the
Latin tongue without any abidance. An infatiable curiofity to know every
thing induced him to make feveral voyages, and enter himfelf into feveral
religious fraternities. He would fee the bottom of their myfteries. He fpent
almod: all his eftate in travelling ; infomuch, that being returned to Rome,
and having a defire to dedicate himfelf to the fervice of Ofiris he lacked
money to defray the expence of the ceremonies of his reception, he was obliged
to make money of his clothes to complete the neceffary film : after this, he
gained his living by pleading ; and, as he was eloquent and fubtle, he did not
want caufes, fome of which were very confiderable. Put he improved his
fortunes much more by a lucky marriage than by pleading. A widow, whofe
name was Pudentilla, neither young nor fair, but who had a good eftate,
thought him worth her notice. He was not coy, nor was he folicitous to keep
his fine perfon, his wit, his neatnefs, and his eloquence, for fome young girl
he married this rich widow chearfully (and with the moil becoming philofophy
•overcame all turbulent pafiions, which might draw him into the fnares of
beauty,) at a country houfe near Oea, a maritime town of Africa. This mar-
riage drew upon him a troublefome law-fuit. The relations of this lady’s
two fons urged that he had mtide ufe of art magic to poffefs himfelf of hen
APULEIUS. 1
59
pfon and money; they accufed him of being woffe than a magician, viz.
a wizard, before Claudius Maximus Proconful of Africa. He defended himfelf
wdth great vigour*.. His apology, which he delivered before the judges,
fumifhes
Befides the accufarion of magic, they reproached him with his beauty, his fine hair, his teeth, and
his looking-glafs. To the two firfl particulars he anfwered he was forry their accusation was fal
“ How do I with,” replied he, “ that thefe heavy accufations of beauty, fine hair, See. were juft! I
flioxtld, without difficulty, reply, as Paris in Homer does to Hedtor,.
nor tbou defpife the charms
With which a lover golden Venus arms.
Soft moving fpeecb, and pleafing outwardJbe-w,
No vjijh can gain them, but the Gods bejlow.
Pope.
“ Thus would T reply to the charge of beauty. Befides that, even phiiofophers are allowed to be of
“ a liberal afpedt ;
that Pythagoras,
the firft of phiiofophers, was the handfomeft man of his time ;
and
w Zeno—but, as I obferved, I am far from pretending to this apology ;
fines, befides that nature has
“ beftowed but a very moderate degree of beauty on me, my continual application to ftiidy wears off
“ every bodily grace, and impairs my conftitution; My hair, which I am falfely accufed of curling
**
and dreffing by way of ornament, is, as you fee, far from being beautiful and delicate : on the contrary,
“ it is perplexed and entangled like a bundle of flocks or tow, and fo knotty through long negledt of
“ combing, and even of difentangling, as never to be reduced to order.” As to the third particular,
He did not deny his having fent a very exquifite powder for the teeth to a friend, together with fome
verfes, containing an exadf defeription of the effedfs of the powder. He alledged that all,
but efpccially
thofe wffio fpake in public, ought to be particularly careful to keep their mouths clean. This was a
fine field for defence, and for turning his adverfary into ridicule ;
though, in all probability, he had
given occafion enough for cenfure by too great an affedlation of diftinguifhing himfelf from other learned
men. Obferve with how much eafe fome caufes are defended, although the defendant be a little in the
wrong. “ I obferved that fome could fcarce forbear laughing when our orator angrily accufed me of
“ keeping my mouth clean, and pronounced the word tooth-powder with as much indignation as any one
M ever pronounced the word poifon. But, furely, it is not beneath a philofopher to ftudy cleanlinefs,
“ and to. let no part of the body be foul, or of an ill favour, efpeeially the mouth, the ufe of which is-
“ the moft frequent and confpicuous, whether a man converfes with another, or fpeaks in public, or fays
“ his prayers in a temple. For fpeech is previous to every, adtion of a man, and, as an excellent poet
“ fays, proceeds from the Wall of the Teeth.”
We may make the fame obfervation upon the laft head of his accufation. It is no crime in a dodfor
of what faculty foever, to have a looking-glafs ; but if he confults it too often in dreffing himfelf, he is
juftly liable to cenfure. Morality in ^puleius's time was much-ftridler than at prefent as to external
behaviour, for he durfl; not avow his making ufe of his looking-glafs. He maintains that he might do
it,.
i
l6o BIOGRAPHIA ANTIQUA*'
furnifhes us with examples of the moil fhameful artifices that the villainy of
an impudent calumniator is capable of putting in practice*. Apuleius was
extremely laborious, and compofed feveral books, fome in verfe and others in
profe, of which but a fmall part has refilled the injuries of time. He delighted
in making public fpeeches, in which he gained the applaufe of all his hearers.
When they heard him at Oea, the audience cried out with one voice, that he
if, and proves it by feveral pliilofophical reafons, which, to fay the truth, are much more ingenious than
judicioufly applied ; but he denies that he ever confulted his looking-glafs ;
for he fays, alluding to this
ludicrous accufation, “ Next follows the long and bitter harangue about the looking-glafs ; in which,
“ fo heinous is the crime, that Pudetis almoft bu rll himfelf with bawling out—‘ A philofopher to have
“ a looking-glafs !’
—Suppofe I fliould confefs that I have, that you may not believe there is really fome-
“ thing in your objection, if I fliould deny it ;
it does not follow from hence that I muff necefTarily
“ make a practice of dreffing myfelf at it. In many things I wr
ant the pofleffion but enjoy the ufe of
“ them. Now, if neither to have a thing be a proof that it is made ufe of, nor the want of it of the
“ contrary, and as I am not blamed for pofTerting, but for making ufe of, a looking-glafs, it is incum-
“ bent upon him to prove farther at what time, and in what place, and in the prefence of whom, I made
“ ufe of it ;
fince you determine it to be a greater crime in a philofopher to fee a looking-glafs, than foT
4 ‘
the profane to behold the attire of Ceres?’
* I fliall inftance one to fliew that in all ages the fpirit of calumny has put men upon forging proofs
by falfe extracts from what a perfon has faid or written. To convift Apuleius of pradlifmg magic, his
accufers alledgc a letter which his wife had wrote during the time he paid his devoirs to her, and affirmed
that fhe had confeffed, in this letter,
that Apuleius was a wixard, and had adlually bewitched her. It was
no hard matter to make the court believe that (he had written fo, for they only read a few words of her
letter, detached from what preceded or followed, and no one prefled them to read the whole. At laft,
Apuleius covered them with confufion by reciting the whole paflage from his wife’s letter. It appeared
that far from complaining of Apuleius, flie juftified him, and artfully ridiculed his accufers. Thefe
are his words :
you will find that precifely the fame terms may either condemn or juflify Apuleius,
according as they are taken with or without what precedes them. “ Being inclined to marry, for the
41
reafons which I have mentioned, you yourfelf perfuaded me to make choice of this man, being fond of
" him, and being defirous, by my means, to make him one of the family. But now, at the inftigation of
41
wicked men, Apuleius mull be informed againft as a magician (or wizard), and I, forfooth, am enchanted
“ by him. I certainly love him : come to me before my reafon fails me.” He aggravates this kind
of fraud as it deferves ;
his words deferve to be engraved in letters of gold, to deter (if poflible) all
calumniators from pradfifing the like cheats. He fays, “ There are many things which, produced
r‘
alone, may feem liable to calumny. Any difeourfe may furnifh matter of accufation, if what is con-
“ nefled with foregoing words be robbed of its introdu&ion ; if fome things be fupprefled at pleafure,
,l
and if what is fpoken by way of reproach to others, for inventing a calumny, be pronounced by the
*• reader as an aflertion of the truth of it.”
ought
APULEIUS. 161
ought to be honoured with the freedom of the city. Thofe of Carthage heard
him favourably, and eredted a ftatue in honour of him. Several other cities
did him the fame honour. It is faid that his wife held the candle to him
v
whilft he ftudied ; but this is not to be taken literally ; it is rather a figure
of Gallic eloquence in Sidonis Apollinaris, Legentibus meditantibufque
candelas & candelabra tenuerunt. Several critics have published notes on
Apuleius : witnefs Pbillipus Beraldus, who publifhed very large notes on the
Golden Afs, at Venice, in folio, ann. 1 504, which were reprinted in 8vo, at
Paris, and at feveral other places. Godefcalk Stewichius, Peter Colvius, John
Wiewer, &c. have written on all the works of Apuleius. Precius publifhed
the Golden Afsy and the Apology, feparately, with a great many obfervations.
The annotations of Cafaubony and thofe of Scipio Gentilisy on the Apology,
are very fcarce, and much valued: the firfl appeared in the year 1594, and
*
the latter in 1607. The Golden Afs may be confidered (as Bayle fays) as a
continued fatire on the diforders which the pfeudo-magicians, priefls, pandars,
and thieves filled the world with at that time. This obfervation occurs in
Fleuri’s annotations. A perfon who would take the pains, and had the
requifite qualifications, might draw up a very curious and inftrudtive com-
mentary on this romance, and might inform the world of feveral things which
the preceeding commentaries have never touched upon. There are fome very
obfcene paffages in this book of Apuleius. It is generally believed that this
author has inferted fome curious epifodes in it of his own invention ; and
amongft others, that of Pfyche. Horum certe nojler itce imitator fuity ut e fuo
penu enumerabilia protulerity atque inter ccetera venujlijjimum illud Pfychesy
’EwsktoiW. This epifode furnifhed Moliere with matter for an excellent
Dramatic Piece, and M. de la Fontaine for a fine Romance.
Y ARISTOTLE,
BIOGRAPHIA ANTIQO'Ao.
I 6-2
A R I S T O T L E,.
THE PE1UPATETJC.
f^RISTOTLE, commonly called the Prince of Philofophers, or thePhilofo-
pher, by way of excellence, was the founder of a fedt which furpafted, and at
length even fwallowed up all the reft. Not but that it has had reverfe of fortune
in its turn ; efpecially in the feventeenth century, in which it has been violently
fhaken, though the Catholic divines on the one fide, and the Proteftant on
the other, have run (as to the quenching of fire), to its relief, and fortified
themfelves fo ftrongly, by the fecular arm, againft the New Philofophy, that
it is not like to lofe its dominion. Mr.. Moreri met with fo many good
materials in a work of father Rapin, that he has given a very large article of
Ariftotle, enough to difpenfe with any aftiftance. Accordingly, I defagn not
to enlarge upon it as far as the fubjedt might allow, but fhall content myfelf
with obferving fome of the errors which I have collected concerning this
philofopner. It is not certain that Ariftotle pradcifed pharmacy in Athens
while he was a difciple of Plato, nor is it more certain that he did not. Very
little credit ought to be given to a current tradition that he learnt feveral
things of a Jew, and much iefs to a ftory of his pretended converfion to.
judaifm, They who pretend that he was born a Jew? are much more grofsly
miftaken : the wrong pointing of a certain paftage occafioned this miftake.
They are deceived who fay that he was a difciple of Socrates for three years,
for Socrates died 15 years before Ariftotle was born. Ariftotle’ behaviour
tov/ards his mafter Plato is varioufly related : fome will have it that, through
prodigious vanity and ingratitude, he fet up altar againft altar : that is, he
eredled a fchool in Athens during Plato’s life, and in oppofition to him : others
fay that he did not fet up for a profeftor till after his mailer’s death. We are
• told.
ARISTOTlE. l®3
told Tome tilings concerning his amours which are not altogether to his
advantage. It was pretended that his conjugal affedtion was idolatrous, and
that, if he had not retired from Athens, the procefs for irreligion, which the
priefts had commenced againft him, would have been attended with the fame
confequences as that againft Socrates. Though he deferved very great praife,
yet it is certain that moft of the errors concerning him are to be found in the
extravagant commendations which have been heaped upon him : as, for exam-
ple, is it not a downright falsehood to fay, that if Arijiotle /poke in his natural
philofophy like a man, he fpoke in his moral philofophy like a 'God; and that it is
a quejlion in his moral philofophy whether he partakes snore of the lawyer than of
the prief ; more of the priefi than of the prophet ; more of the prophet than of
the God Cardinal Pallavicini fcrupled not in fome meafure to affirm that,
if it had not been for Arijiotle, the church would have wanted fome of its
articles of faith. The Chriftians are not the only people who have author-
ized his philofophy ; the Mahometans are little lefs prejudiced in its favour $
and we are told, that to this day, notwitnftanding the ignorance which reigns
among them, they have fchools for this fedt. It will be an everlafting fubjedt
of wonder, to perfons who know what philofophy is, to find that Arijiotle
1
s
authority was fo much refpedled in the fchools, for feveral ages, that when a
difputant quoted a paflage from this philofopher, he who maintained the
thefs durft nor fay tranfeat, but muft either deny the paflage, or explain it in
his own way. It is in this manner we treat the Holy Scriptures in the
divinity fchools. The parliaments which have profcribed all other philofophy
but that of Arijiotle, are more excufable than the dodtors i for whether the
members of parliament were really perfuaded that this philofophy was the
beft of any, or was not, the public good might induce them to prohibit new
opinions, left the academical divifions fhould extend their malignant influence
to the difturbance of the tranquillity of the ftate. What is moft aftonifhing
to wife men is, that the profeflfors fhould be fo ftrongly prejudiced in favour
of Arifotle's philofophy. Had this prepofleffion been confined to his poetry
and rhetoric, it had been lefs wonderful : but they were fond of the weakeft
Y 2 of
164 BIOGRAPHIA ANTIQU At
of his works j I mean his Logic, and Natural Philofophy *. This jufliee,,
however, muft be done to the blinded of his followers, that they have deferted
him where he clafhes with Chriftianity : and this he did in points of the
greateft confequence, fince he maintained the eternity of the world, and did
not believe that providence extended itfelf to fublunary beings. As to the
immortality of the foul, it is not certainly known whether he acknowledged-
it or not -fu In the year 1647, the famous capuchin. Valerian Magni pub-
lished a work concerning the Atheifm of Arijiotle. About one hundred and-
thirty years before, Marc Anthony Venerius published a fyftem of philofophy,-,
in which he difcovered feveral inconfiftencies between Ariftotle's dodtrine, and
the truths of religion. Oampanella maintained the fame in his book de Re«
dudlione ad Rcligionem, which was approved at Rome in the year 1630. It was-
not long fince maintained in Holland, in the prefaces to fome books, that the.
dodtrine of this philofopher differed but little from Spinoziftn. In the mean
time, if fome Peripatetics may be believed, he was not ignorant of the myftery
of the Trinity. Pie made a very good end, and enjoys eternal happinefs,.
Pie compofed a great number of books; a great part of which is come down,
to us. It is true fome critics raife a thoufand fcruples about them. He was.
extremely honoured in his own city, and there were not wanting heretics who
worshipped his image with that of Chrijl. There is extant, fome book which
mentions, that, before the Reformation, there were- churches in Germany in
* To he convinced of the weaknefs of thefe works, we need only read GaJJendus in his Exercitationes .
Paradoxicce adverfos Ari/loteleos. He fays enough there againft Arijiotle % philofophy in general, to con-
vince every unprejudiced reader that it is very defective ;
but he particularly ruins this p’nilofopherV
Logic. He was preparing, likevvife, a cuticifm on his Natural Philofophy, his Metaphyfics, and Ethics,
in the fame way ; when, being alarmed at the formidable indignation of the peripatetic party againft him,
he chofe rather to drop his work, than expofe himfelf to their vexatious perfecutions. In Arijiotle's
Logic and Natural Philofophy, there are many things which difcover the elevation and profundity
of his genius. ...
•f
Pcm/onatius and Nipbus had a great quarrel on this fubjeft. The firft maintained, that the immortality
of the foul was inconfiftent with Arijiotle's principles : the latter undertook to defend the contrary. See
the difcourfe of la Moths le Vaytr on the Immortality of the Soul, and Bodi-a, in page 15 of Pref.-
to Damonomania%
which
ARISTOTLE.
which' Arijlotle' Ethics were read every Sunday morning to the people inRead
of the Gofpel. There are but few in Ranges ,of zeal for religion which have
not been (hewn for the Peripatetic philofophy, Paul de Foix, famous for his
embaffies and his learning; would not fee Francis Patricias at Ferrara, beeaufe
he was informed that that learned man taught a philofophy different from the
Peripatetic This was treating the enemies of Arijlotle as zealots treat heretics.
After all, it is no wonder that the Peripatetic philofophy, as it has been taught
for feveral centuries, found fo many protestors ; or that the interefts of it
are believed to be infeparable from thofe of theology : for it a ecu Roms the
mind to acquiefce without evidence. This union of intereRs may be eReemed
as a pledge to the Peripatetics of the immortality of their fedt, and an argument
to abate the hopes of the new philofophers.—Confidering* withal, that there
are fome doctrines of AriRotle which the moderns have rejected, , and which
muR, fooner or later, be adopted again* The . Prote Rant divines have very
much altered their condudt, if it is true, as we are told, that the RrR reformers
clamoured fo loud againR the Peripatetic philofophy. The kind of death, ,
which in fome refpedts does much honour to the memory of Arijlotle, is, that
which fome have reported, viz. that his vexation at not being able to difeover
the caufe of thejlux and reflux of the FuAppus occafioned the diRemper of
which he died. Some fay, that being retired into the ifland of' Fubceay to
avoid a procefs againR him for irreligion, he poifoned himfelf but why
fhould he quit Athens to free himfelf from perfecution this way ? Hesychius
affirms, not only that fentence of death was pronounced againR him for an
hymn which he made in honour of his father-in-law, but alfo that he
fwallowed aconite in execution of this fentence. If this were true, it would
have been mentioned by more authors.
The number of ancient and modem writers who have exercifed their pens,
on Arijlotle, either in commenting on, or tranflating, him, is endlefs. A cata-
logue of them is to be met with in fome of the editions of his works, but
not a complete one. See a treatife of father Labbe, entitled. Ariflotelis
Platonis Grcecorum Interpretum, typis haBenus editorum brevis confpeBus ;
A fhort view of the Greek interpreters of AriRotle and Plato hitherto publijhedy
printed
v
1 66 B10GRAPHIA ANTIQUA,
printed at Paris in the year 1657 in 4to. Mr. Teiffier names four authors
who have compofed the life of Arijlotle -
y Ammoniasy Guarini of Verona, fohn
fames Beurerus, and Leonard Aretin. He forgot ferome Gemufceus,
phyfician
and profe/Tor of philofophy at Bazil, author of a book, De Vita AriJiotelisy
et ejus Operum Cenfurav—The Life ofArijlotle, and a Critique on bis Works.
Peter Bayle.
ARTEMIDORUS of EPHESUS.
/
THE
SOMNABULIST, or DREAMER.
^^RTEMIDORUS (who wrote fo largely upon Dreams) was a native of
Ephefus. He lived under Antonins Pius,
as he informs us himfelf, where
he fays, he knew an Athlete, who having dreamt that he had loft his fight,
obtained the prize in the games which that Emperor ordered to be celebrated.
No author has ever taken more pains upon fo ufeful a fubjedt than Artemi
dorus has done. He bought up all that had been written upon the fubjedt of
dreams, which amounted to feveral volumes, but he fpent many years in
travelling to colledt them, as well as the different opinions of all the learned
who were then living. He kept a continual correfpondence with thofe in the
towns and afiemblies of Greece, in Italy, and in the moft populous iftands;
and he colledted^ every where all the dreams he could hear of, and the events
they had. He defpifed the cenfure of thofe grave and fupercilious perfons,
who treat all pretenders to predidtiens as fharpers, or impoftors, and without
regarding the cenfures of thefe Catos, he frequented thofe diviners many years.
In a wt
©rd. he devoted all his time and thoughts to the fcience of dreams. He
thought
artemidorus.
thought that his great labour in making fo many collections, &c. had enabled
him to warrant his interpretations by reafon and experience, but unfortunately
he ever fixed upon the moft trifling and frivolous fubjedts, fuch as almofl: every
one is dreaming of: there is no dream which Artemidorus has explained, but
will bear a quite different interpretation, with the fame probability, and with
at lead: as natural refemblances, as thofe on which that interpreter proceeds,
I fay nothing' of the injury done to intelligences, to whofe direction we rnufh
neceflarily impute our dreams if we expeCt to find in them any prefage of fu-
turity Artemidorus took great pains to inftruCt his fon in the fame fcience,
as appears by the two books which he dedicated to him. So eager a purfuit.
after thefe ftudies is the lefs to be wondered at, when we confider that he be-
lieved himfelf under the infpiration of Apollo. He dedicated his three firfl
* We find in Artemidorus fome of the moft trifling incidents in dreams noted by him to prefage very
extraordinary things; fuch, as if any one dreams of his nofe, or his teeth, or fuch like trifling fubjetfts, fuch
particular events they muft denote. —Now, as we cannot attribute a true and fignificant dream to any
other caufe than the celeftial intelligences,
or an evil damon, or etfe to the foul itfslf (which poffefles an
inherent prophetic virtue, as we have fully treated of in our Second Book ofMagic, where vse havefpoken of
prophetic dreams)- I fay. from which of thefe caufes a dream proceeds, we muft afcribe but a very de-
ficient portion of knowledge to either of them, if we do not allow them capable of giving better and
plainer information refpedting any calamity or change of fortune or circumftances, than by dreaming of
one’s nofe itching, or a tooth* falling out, and a hundred other toys like thefe. —I fhy, fuch modes of
dictating to us a fore-knowledge of events to happen, cannot but be unworthy of their wifdom, fub-
tilty, or power, and if they cannot inftruCl us by better figns, how great is their ignorance, and if they
will not, how great is their malice ? therefore, all fuch trifling dreams are to be altogether rejected as
vain and infignificant, for, we muft remember that “ a dream comes through the multitude of hufnefsf and
often otherwife ; but fuch dreams as we are to notice, and draw predictions of future accidents and
events, are thofe where the dream is altogether confident, not depending upon any prior difcourfe,
accidents, or other like circumftances ; likewife, that the perfon who would with to dream true dreams,
fhould fo difpofe himfelf as to become a fit recipient of the heavenly powers, but this is only to be done
by a temperate and frugal diet, a mind bent on fublime contemplations, a religious defire of being in-
formed of any misfortune, accident, or event, which might introduce mifery, poverty, or diflraftion of
mind ;
fo as when we know it, to deprecate the fame by prayer to the divine wifdom, that he would be
pleafed to divert the evil impending, or to enable us to meet the fame with fortitude, and endure
it with patience till the will of the Deity is accomplished. Thefe are the things which we ought to
be defirous to receive information of by dream, vifion, or the like, and of which many are often truly fore-
warned, and thereby foretell things to come, alfo prefage of the death of certain friends y all which I
know by experience to be true and probable,
books
1 68 BIOGRAPHIA ANTIQUA.
books to one CaJJius Maximus, and the other two to his fon.—They were
printed in Greek at Venice in the year 1518. In the year 1603 Rigaultius
publifhed them at Paris in Greek and Latin, with notes. The Latin tranfla-
tion he made ufe of was that publithed by John Cornarius at Bazil, in the
year 1539. Artemidorus wrote a treatife of augury, and another upon chiro-
mancy ; but we have no remains of them. Tertullian has not taken notice of
him in that paflage, where he quotes feveral onirocritic authors ; but Lucian
does not forget him, though he names but two writers of this clafs.
BABYLONIANS.
^JNDER this article of Babylonians we fhall juft give the reader a general
~ - {ketch of the antiquity of occult learning among the Chaldeans of Ba-
bylon, fo famous for their fpeculations in aftrology. Diodorus Siculus informs
us, that the inhabitants of Babylon aflert, that their city was very ancient ;
for they counted four hundred and feventy-three thoufand years, from the firft
obfervations of their aftrologers to the coming of Alexander. Others fay,
that the Babylonians boafted of having preferved in their archives the obferva-
tions which their aftrologers had made on nativities for the fpace of four
hundred and feventy thoufand years ; from hence we ought to corred a paf-
fage of Pliny, which fome authors make ufe of improperly, either to confute
the antiquity of Babylon, or for other purpofes. Ariftotle knew without
doubt that the Babylonians boafted of having a feries of aftronomical obfer-
vations comprehending a prodigious number of centuries. He was defirous
to inform himfelf of the truth of this by means of Calijlhenes, who was in
Alexander’s retinue, but found a great miftake in the account for it is pre-
tended, that Callijlhenes aflured him that the aftronomical obfervations he had
feen
BABYLONIANS. 169
feen in Babylon, comprehended no more than 1903 years. Simplicius reports
this, and borrows it from Porphyry. If Calijihenes has computed right, it
muft be agreed, that after the deluge men made very great hafte to become
aftrologers ; for according to the Hebrew Bible there is but two thoufand
years *' to be found from the flood to the death of Alexander. There is
reafon to queftion what Simplicius reports, and it is remarkable that all the
ancient authors, who have afcribed the building of Babylon to Semiramis, have
no authority than that of Ctejias, whofe hiftories abounded in fables. And,
therefore, we fee that Berojius blames the Greek writers for affirming, that
Semiramis- built Babylon, and adorned it with the moft beautiful ftrudtures.
The fupplement to Moreri quotes Quintus Curtius, in relation to the immo-
defly of the Babylonian women -f-,
who proftituted their bodies to ftrangers
for money, under the idea of performing their devotions required by Venus.
Gbferve, that thefe fums were afterwards applied to religious ufes.
* Epigenus tells us, that amongft the Babylonians there were celeftial obfervations for four hundred
and feventy thoufand years, infcribed on pillars or tables of bricks. Berojius and C'itodemus, who
make the leaft of it, fay four hundred and ninety years.
-j- This lafcivious ceremony was very ancient. Jeremiah' s letter inferted in the book of Baruch
touches fomething on it, but in an obfcure manner, and wants a commentary taken out of Hens iotus.
Jeremiah’s text runs thus : —“ The women alfo with cords about them fat in the ways—but if any of
“ them, drawn by feme that pafieth by^ lie with him, fhe reproacheth her fellow, that {he was not
“ thought as worthy as herfelf, nor her cord broken.”—Herodotus informs us, that there was a law in
Babylon which obliged all the women of the country to feat themfelves near the temple of Venus,
and
there to wait an opportunity of copulating with a ftranger,
z THE
BIOGRAPHI A ANTIQUA*
I^O
THE LIFE
OF
HENRY CORNELIUS AGRIPPA, Knight,
DOCTOR OF BOTH LAWS, COUNSELLOR TO CHARLES V. EMPEROR OF GERMANY, AND
JUDGE OF THE PREROGATIVE COURT.
J-JENRY CORNELIUS AGRIPPA, a very learned man and a magician*,
flourished in the Sixteenth century. He was born at Cologne on the 14th
of September, i486. He defcended from a noble and ancient family of Net-
teSheim in Belgia defiring to walk in the Reps of his anceftors, who for
many generations had been employed by the princes of the houfe of Anjlriay
he entered early into the fervice of the Emperor Maximilian. He had at
firft the employ of Secretary ; but as he was equally qualified for the fword
as the pen, he afterwards turned foldier, and ferved the Emperor feven
years in his Italian army. He Signalized himfelf on feveral occafions, and as
a reward of his brave adtions he was created knight in the field. He wifhed
to add the academical honours to the military, he therefore commenced dodtor
of laws and phyfic. He was a man pofiefled of a very wonderful genius, and
from his youth applied his mind to learning, and by his great natural talents
he obtained great knowledge in almoft all arts and fciences. He was a diligent
fearcher into the myfieries of nature, and was early in fearch of the philofo-
pher’s fione ; and it appears that he had been recommended to fome princes
* As he himfelf aflcrts in his preface to his three books of Occult Philofophy and Magic, where he
fays, “ who am indeed a magician,” applying the word magic to fublime and good fciences, not to pro-
phane and de vilifh arts. Paul Jovius, Thevet, and Martin del Rio, accufe him not of magic, (becau/e
we cannot apply that to neaomantic arts) but the black art ;
but we fhall fliew in fome of the following
notes, their grounds on which this accufation of Agrippa is founded, and examine how far their infor-
mation will juftify their calumny againlt this author.
as
N
HENRY CORNELIUS AGRIPPA. 171
ss matter of the art of alchymy*, and very fit for the grand projedtion. He
had a very extenfive knowledge of things in general, as likewife in the learned
languages. He was pupil to Trithemius, who wrote upon the nature, mini-
ftry, and offices of intelligences and fpirits- He was of an unfettled temper,
and often changed his lituation, and was fo unfortunate as to draw upon
himfelf the indignation of the Popifh clergy by his writings. We find by his
letters that he had been in Franc? before the year 1507, that he travelled into
Spain in the year ryo8, and was at Dole in the year 1509. He read public
ledtures there, which engaged him in a con tell with the Cordelier Catilinet.
The monks in thofe times fufpedted. whatever they did not underftand, of
herefy and error ; how then could they fuffer Agrippa to explain the myfteri-
ous works of Reuchlinus de Verbo Mirijico with impunity ? It was the fub-
jedt of the ledtures which he read at Dole in 1509 with great reputation.
To ingratiate himfelf the better with Margaret of Aufriat governefs of the
Aufrian Netherlands, he compofed at that time a treatife on the excellency of
women ; but the perfecution he ffiffered from the monks prevented him
from publifhing it * he gave up the caufe, and came into England, where he
wrote on St. Paul's Epiftles, although he had another very private affair upon
his hands. Being returned to Cologne, he read public ledtures there on the
queftions of the divinity, which are called Quodlibetales ; after which he went
to the Emperor Maximilian s .army in Italy, and continued there till Cardinal
de Sainte Croix fent for him to Pi
fa. Agrippa would have difplayed his
abilities there in quality of theologill of the council, if that affembly had
continued. This would not have been the way to pleafe the Court of Rome,
or to deferve the obliging letter he received from Leo X, and from whence
we may conclude, that he altered his opinion. From that time he taught
divinity publicly at Pavia, and at Turin. He likewife read ledtures on Mer-
curius Trifmegifus at Pavia, in the year 1515. He had a wife who was
* We have no authority to fay, that ever he was in poffeffion of the great fecret of tranfmntation,
neither can we gather any fuel- information from his writings ;
the only circumftance relative to this is
what himfelf fays in occult phiiolophy, that he had made gold,
but no more than that out of which the foul
was extrafted.
Z 2 handfome
BIOGRAPHXA ANTI QU A
172
handfome and accomplifhed, by whom he had one fon ; he loft her in 1 521 ; he
married again an accomplifhed lady at Geneva in the year 1522, of whom he
gives a very good character ; by this wife he had three children, two fons and one
daughter, who died. It appears by the fecond book of his letters, that his friends
endeavoured in feveral places to procure him fome honourable fettlement, either
at Grenoble, Geneva, Avignon, or Metz. He preferred the port which was of-
fered him in this laft city; and I find that in the year 1518 he was chofen by
the lords of Metz to be their advocate, fyndic, and orator. The perfecutions
which the monks raifed againft him, as well on account of his having re-
futed the common opinion concerning the three hufoands of St. Anne, as be-
caufe he had protected a country-woman, who was accufed of withcraft, made
him leave the city of Metz. The ftory is as follows : —A country-woman,
who was accufed of withcraft, was propofed (by the Dominican, Nicholas Sa-
vin/', Inquilitor of the Faith at Metz)
to be put to the torture, upon a mere
prejudice, grounded on her being the daughter of a witch, who had been burnt.
Agrippa immediately took up the cudgels, and did what he could to prevent
fo irregular a proceeding, but could not prevent the woman from being put
to the quejlion \ however, he was the inftrument of proving her innocence.
Her accufers were condemned in a fine. The penalty was too mild, and far
from a retaliation. This country-woman was of Vapey, a town fituated near
the gates of Metz, and belonging to the chapter of the cathedral. There ap-
peared in MeJJin, who was the principal accufer of this woman, fuch fordid
paffions, and fuch a total ignorance of literature and philofophy, that Agrippa
in his letter of June 2, 1519, treats the town of Metz as—“ The Jlep-
mother of learning and virtue This fatyrical reflexion of Agrippa’s might
give rife to the proverb—“ Metz, the covetous, and ftep-mother of arts and
fciences.”—What induced him to treat of the monogamy of St. Anne was
his feeing, that fames Faber Stapulenfs, his friend, was pulled to pieces by
the preachers of Metz, for having maintained that opinion. Agrippa retired
to Cologne, his native city, in the year 1520, willingly forfaking a city,
which the feditious inquifitors had made an enemy to learning and true merit.
It is indeed the fate of all cities where Fuch perfons grow powerful of what-
*
ever
HENRY CORNELIUS A GRIP PA.
m
ioever religion they are of. He again left his own city in the year 1521, and
went to Geneva, but his fortunes did not much improve there, for he com-
plained that he was not rich enough to make a journey to Chamheri to folicit
the penfion, which he was led to expeCt from the Duke of Savoy. This ex-
pectation came to nothing, upon which Agrippa went from Geneva to Fri-
bourg in Switzerland in the year 1523, to pradtife phyfic there as he had done
at Geneva. The year following he went to Lyons, and obtained a penfion
from Francis I. He was in the fervice of that prince’s mother in quality of
her phylician, but made no great improvement of his fortune there -, neither did
he follow that princefs when fhe departed from Lyons in the month of Augufl,
1525, to condudl her daughter to the frontiers of Spain. He danced attend-
ance at Lyons for fome time to employ the intereft of his friends in vain, to
obtain the payment of his penfion ; and before he received it he had the
vexation to be informed, that he was ftruck out of the lift. The caufe of
this difgrace was, that having received orders from his miftrefs to enquire by
the rules of aftrology what turn the affairs of France would take, he expreffed
his difapprobation too freely, that the princefs fhould employ him in fuch a
vain curiofity, inftead of making ufe of his abilities in more important affairs.
The lady took this leffon very ill, but fhe was highly incenfed when fhe
heard that Agrippa had, by the Rules of AJlrology, the Cabala, or fome other
art, predicted new triumphs to the conftable of Bourbon *.—Agrippa finding
himfelf
* See Agrippa’s words in his 29th Epift. lib. iv. p. 854, which are as follow :
—“I wrote to the
“ Fenecbal, defiring him to advife her not to mifapply my abilities any longer in fo unworthy an art
“ that I might for the future avoid thefe follies, lince I had it in my power to be of fervice to her by
“ much happier fludies.” But the greateft misfortune was, that “ this unworthy art," and “ thefe follies,”
as he called them, predifted fuccefs to the oppofite party, as you may judge by his own words.—“ I re-
“ member I told the Senefchal in a letter, that in cafting the conftable of Bourbon's nativity, I plainly
“ difcovered that he would this year likewife gain the victory over your armies,”—They who are ac-
quainted with the hiftory of thefe times, muft fee plainly that Agrippa could not pay his court worfe to
Francis I. than bypromiling good fuccefs to the conftable. From that time Agrippa was looked upon
as a Bourlonifl : to filence this reproach he reprefented the fervice he had done to France,
by diffuading
4000 foot foldiers from following the Emperor’s party, and by engaging them in the fervice of Francis I.
He alledged the refufal of the great advantages which were promifed him when he left Fribourg, if he
would enter into the conftable’s fervice. It appears by the 4th and 6th Letter of Book V. that he held
a ftrid
BIOGRAPHIA ANTIQUA»
J
74
himfelf difcarded, murmured, flormed, threatened, and wrote ; but, how-
ever, he was obliged to look out for another fettlement. He call his eyes
on the Netherlands, and having after long waiting obtained the neceffary
palfes, he arrived at Antwerp in the month of July, 1528. One of the
caufes of thefe delays was the rough proceeding of the Duke of Vendome,
who inflead of figning the pafs for Agrippa tore it up, faying, that “ he
would not fign any palfport for a conjuror.” In the year 1529 the King of
'England fent Agrippa a kind invitation to come into his territories, and at the
fame time he was invited by the Emperor’s chancellor, by an Italian marquifs,
and by Margaret of Aujlria,
governefs of the Netherlands. He accepted the
offers of the latter, and was made hilloriographer to the Emperor, a poll
procured him by that princefs. He publilhed by way of prelude, The Hijlory
of the Government of Charles V. and foon after he was obliged to compofe
that princefs’s funeral oration, whofe death was in fome manner the life of
our Agrippa for Ihe had been llrangely prejudiced againll him : the fame
ill office was done him with his Imperial Majelly. His treatife of the Vanity
of the Sciences, which he caufed to be printed in 1 530, terribly exafperated his
enemies. That which he publilhed foon after at Antwerp, viz. of the Occult
Philofophy, afforded them a Hill farther pretence to defame him. It was
fortunate for him that Cardinal Campegius, the Pope’s legate, and Cardinal Be
la Mark Bilhop of Liege, were his advocates ; but, however, their good of-
fices could not procure him his penfion as hilloriographer, nor prevent his
being imprifoned at Bruffels, in the year 1531, but he was foon releafed.
The following year he made a vilit to the Archbiffiop of Cologne, to whom
he had dedicated his Occult Philofophy and from whom he had received
a very obliging letter. The fear of his creditors, with whom he was much
embarraffed on account of his falary being flopped, made him flay longer
in the country of Cologne than he defired. He flrenuoully oppofed the
inquifitors, who had put a flop to the printing of his Occult Philofophy,
a Arid correfpondence with that prince in 1527. He advifed and counfelled, yet refufed to go and join
him, and promifed him vidory. He allured him that the walls of Rome would fall down upon the firft
attack ;
yet he omitted informing him of one point, and that was, that the conftabk would be killed
there.
when
HENRY CORNELIUS AGRIPPA. 175
when he was publishing' a new edition of it corredled, and augmented
at Cologne.—See the xxvith, and the following Letters of the vnth Book.
In fpite of them the imprefiion was finished, which is that of the year 1 533.
He continued at Bonn till the year 1535, and was then defirous of returning
to Lyons. He was imprifoned in France for fomething he had faid againd the
mother of Francis I. but was releafed at the requeft of certain perfons, and went
Grenoble, where ho died the fame year, 1535. Some fay, that he died in the
hofpital (but this is mere malice, for his enemies reported every thing that envy
could fugged: to depreciate his worth and character). He died at the houfe of the
Receiver General of the province of Dauphiny, whofefon was fird president of
Grenoble. Mr. Allard at p. 4, ofthe BibliothequeofDauphine, fays, that Agrippa
died at Grenoble, in the houfe which belonged to the family- of Ferrand in Clerk's
Street, and was then in the pofj'efjion of the prefdent Vachon ; and that he was
buried in the convent of the Dominicans. He lived always in the Roman com-
munion, therefore it ought not to have been faid that he was a Lutheran
Burnet in his hidory of the Reformation alferts, that Agrippa wrote in favour
of the divorce of King Henry VIII. But if we look into Agrippa's letters we
ihall find that he was againd it, as well in them as likewife in his declamation on
the vanity of the fciences, where he fays—“ I am informed there is a certain
" king, at this time o’day, who thinks it lawful for him to divorce a wife to
“ whom he has been married thefe twenty years, and to efpoufe an harlot.”
In refped of the charge of magic diabolical being preferred againd him by
Martin del Rio and others who confidently afierted, that Agrippa paid his way
at inns, &c. with pieces of horn, cading an illufion over the fenfes, where-
by thofe who received them took them for real money ; together with the dory
of the boarder at Louvain, who, in Agrippa' abfence, raifed the devil in his dudy,
and thereby lod his life ; and Agrippa s coming home, and feeing the fpirits
dancing at the top of the houfe, his commanding one of them into the dead
body, and fending it to drop down at the market-place : all thefe dories, afierted
* -Agrippa, in his Apolog. cap . tq. fpeaks in lofty terms of Luther,
and with fuch contempt of the sd-
-verfaries of that reformer, that it is plain from hence Sixtus Zkntnfis affirmed that Agrippa was a Lu-
theran.
by
BIOGRAPH IA ANT I QUA-,
I76
by Martin del Rio are too ridiculous to be believed by men of fenfe or fcience,
they being no way probable even if he had dealt in the Black Art.-—As to
magic, in the fenfe it is underflood by us, there is no doubt of his being a
proficient in it, witnefs his three books of Occult Philofophy ; to fay nothing
here of the fourth, which we have good authority to fay was never wrote by
Agrippa,- as we (hall fhew prefently, where we fhall treat of the hiflory of his
Occult Philofophy.—In a word, to fum up the character of Agrippa we mufl
do him the juflice to acknowledge, that notwithflanding his impetuous temper
which occafioned him many broils, yet from the letters which he wrote to fe~
veral of his mofl intimate friends, without any apparent defign of printing,
them, he was a man ufed to religious reflexions, and the practice of Chrifli-
anity ;
that he was well verfed in many of the chiefefl and mold fecret opera-
tions of nature, viz. the fciences of natural and celeflial magic ; that he cer-
tainly performed flrange things (in the vulgar eye) by the application of ac~
tives to pajjives, as which of us cannot ? that he was an expert ajlrologer,
phyfician, and mathematician, by which, as well as by magic, he foretold many
uncommon things, and performed many admirable operations, John JVierus9
who was his domeftic; has given feveral curious and interefling anecdotes,
which throw great light upon the myflerious character of Agrippa, and ferve
to free him from the fcandalous imputation of his being a profeffor of the
black art. Now, becaufe Agrippa continued whole weeks in his fludy,
and yet was acquainted with almoft every tranfadlion in feveral countries of
the v/orld, many filly people gave out, that a black dog which Agrippa kept
was an evil fpirit, by whofe means he had all this information, and which
communicated the ene?nies’ pojls,
number, defigns, &c. to his mailer ; this is
Paul Jovius's account, by which you may fee on what fort of reports he
founded his opinions of this great man. We wonder that Gabriel Naude had
not the precaution to objedt to the accufers of Agrippa, the great number of
hiftorical falfehoods of which they (his accufers) Hand convidled. Naude fup-
pofes that the monks and others of the ecclefiaflical order did not think of
crying down the Occult Philofophy till a long time after it was published ; he
affirms that they exclaimed againft that work, only in revenge for the injuries
.
Aey
HENRY CORNELIUS AGRIPPA. 1 77
they believed they had received in that of the Vanity of the Sciences. ’Tis true,
this latter book gave great offence to many. The monks, the members
of the univerfities, the preachers, and the divines, faw themfelves drawn to
the life in it. Agrippa was of too warm a complexion. “ The leaf tafle cf
his book (of the Vanity of the Sciences) convinced me that he was an author of
a fiery genius, extenfve reading, and great memory ; but fometimes more copious
than choice in his fubjecl, and writing in a difiurbed, rather than in a compofed,
Jiyle.” He laflies vice, and commends virtue, every where, and in every perfon :
but there are fome with whom nothing but panegyric will go down. See
Erasmi Epifl. lib. xxvii. p. 1083.
Let us now, in a few words, and for the conclufion of this article, defcribe
the hiftory of the Occult Philofophy. Agrippa compofed this work in his
younger days, and fhewed it to the Abbot Trithemius, whofe pupil he had
been. Trithemius was charmed with it, as appears by the letter which he
wrote to him on the 8th of April, 1510 ; but he advifes him to communicate
it only to thofe whom he could confide in. However, feveral manufcript
copies of it were difperfed almoft all over Europe. It is not necefiary to obferve
that moft of them were faulty, which never fails to happen in the like cafes.
They were preparing to print it from one of thefe bad copies ; which made
the author refolve to publifh it himfelf, with the additions and alterations
with which he had embellifhed it, after having fhewed it to the Abbot
Trithemius. Melchior Adam was miftaken in afferting that Agrippa, in his
more advanced years, having corredted and enlarged this work, fhewed it to
the Abbot Trithemius. He had refuted his Occult Philofophy in his Vanity of
the Sciences, and yet he published it to prevent others from printing a faulty
and mutilated edition. He obtained the approbation of the dodtors of
divinity, and fome other perfons, whom the Emperor’s council appointed to
examine it.
“ This book has been lately examined and approved by' certain prelates of the
<e
church, and doctors, thoroughly verfed both in facred and profane literature,
“ and by commiffaries particularly deputedfor that purpofe by G^esarV council:
“ after which, it was admitted by the whole council, and licenfed by the authentic
A a diploma
BIOGRAPH I A ANTIQUA.
!7S
“ diploma of his Imperial Majefty, and the fiamp of the Cesarean Eagle in
“ red wax ; and was afterwards publicly printed and fold at Antwerp, and
** then at Paris, without any oppofition .”
After the death of Agrippa a Fourth Book was added to it by another hand.
Jo. Wierus de Magis, cap. 5. p. 108, fays, “ To thefe (books of Magic)
“ may very jujtly be added, a work lately publifted, and afcribed to my late
“ honoured bojl and preceptor, Henry Cornelius Agrippa, who has been
“ dead more than forty years ; whence l conclude it is unjujlly inferibed to his
“ manes, under the title ofThe fourth book of the Occult Philosophy,
“ or of Magical Ceremonies, which pretends likewife to be a Key to the
“ three former books of the Occult Philosophy, and all kinds of Magical
“ Operations.” Thus John Wierus exprefles himfelf. There is an edition
in folio of the Occult Philofophy, in 1533, without the place where it was
printed. The privilege of Charles V. is prefixed to it, dated from Mechlin,
the 1 2th of "January 1529. We have already mentioned the chief works of
Agrippa. It will be fufficient to add, that he wrote A Commentary on the Art
of Raimundus Lullius, and A Dijfertation on the Original of Sin, wherein he
teaches that the fall of our firft parents proceeded from their unchafte love.
He promifed a work againft the Dominicans, which would have pleafed many
perfons both within and without the pale of the church of Rome*. He held
fome uncommon opinions, and never any Proteftant fpoke more forcibly againft
the impudence of the Legendaries, than he did. We mull: not forget the Key
of his Occult Philofophy, which he kept only for his friends of the firft rank,
and explained it in a manner, which differs but little from the fpeculations of
our Quietifts. Now many fuppofe that the 4th book of the Occult Philofophy
is the Key which Agrippa mentions in his letters to have referved to himfelfj
but it may be anfwered, with great Ihew of probability, that he amufed the
* “ In the treatife I am compofing of the vices and erroneous opinions of the Dominicans, in which
“ I fliall expofe to the whole world their vicious practices, fuch as the facrainent often infefled with
u poifon—numberlefs pretended miracles—kings and princes taken off with poifon—cities and ftates
“ betrayed—the populace feduced—herefies avowed—and the reft of the deeds of thefe heroes and their
“ enormous crimes.” See Agrippa Optra, T. ii. p, 1037,
world
HENRY CORNELIUS AGRIPPA. I79
world with this Key to caufe himfelf to be courted by the curious, fames
Gokory and Vigenere fay, that he pretended to be mafter of the Pradlice of the
Mirror of Pythagoras, and the fecret of extracting the fpirit of gold from its
body, in order to convert fiver and copper into fine gold. But he explains
what he means by this Key, where he fays, in the Epift. 19. lib. v. “ Phis
“ is that true and occult philofophy of the wonders of nature. The key thereof
“ is the underfanding : for the higher we carry our knowledge, the more fublime
“ are our altahvnents in virtue, arid we perform the greateft things with more eafe
“ and efi'eCt.” Agrippa makes mention of this Key in two letters which he
wrote to a religious who addicted himfelf to the ftudy of the Occult Sciences,
viz. Aurelius de Aquapendente Aufin, friar, where he fays, “ Whatfurprifng
“ accounts we meet with, and how great writings there are made ofthe invincible
“ power ofthe Magic Art, of the prodigious hnages ofAftrologers, ofthe amazing
“ tranfmutations of Alchymifts, and of that blejfed fone by which, Midas-like,
“ all metals are tranfmuted into gold: all which are found to be vain,
fictitious,
“ and falfe, as often as they are praCtifed literally .” Yet he fays, “ Such things
“ are delivered and writ by great and grave philofophers, whofe traditions who
“ dare fay are falfe ? Nay, it were impious to think them lies : only there is
“ another meaning than what is writ with the bare letters. We mud not, he adds,
“ look for the principle of thefe grand operations without ourfelves: it is an
“ internal fpirit within us, which can very well perform whatfoever the
K monftrous Mathematicians, the prodigious Magicians, the wonderful Al-
<f
chymifis, and the bewitching Necromancers, can effeCt.”
Nos habitat, tion tartara ; fed nec fidera coeli,
Spiritus in nobis qui viget, ilia facit.
See Agrippa Epift. Eat. Lyons, Sept. 24, 1727,
Note. Agrippa’s three books of Magic, with the fourth, were tranflated
into English, and publifhed in London in the year 1651. But they are now
become fo fcarce, as very rarely to be met with, and are fold at a very high
price by the bookfellers.
A a 2 ALBERTUS
BIOGRAPHIA anti qua.
i2o
ALBERTUS MAGNUS.
^^LBERTUS MAGNUS, a Dominican, biShop of Rati/bon, and one of the
moft famous doctors of the XIII century, was born at Lawingen, on the
Danube, in Siiabia, in the year 1193, or 1205. Moreri’s di&ionary gives us
an account of the feveral employs which were conferred upon him, and the
fuccefs of his ledtures in feveral towns. It is likewife faid, that he pradtifed
midwifery, and that he was in fearch of the Pbilofopher s Stone j that he was
a famous Magician, and that he had formed a machine in the Shape of a man,
which ferved him for an oracle, and explained all the difficulties which he
propofed to it. I can eafily be induced to believe that, as he understood the
mathematics, &c. he made a head, which, by the help of fome Spirits, might
form certain articulate founds. Though he was well qualified to be the in-r
ventor of artillery, there is reafon to believe, that they who afcribed the inven-
tion of it to him are mistaken. It is faid that he had naturally a very dull
wit, and that he was upon the point of leaving the cloiSter, becaufe he defpaired
of attaining what his friar’s habit required of him, but that the Holy Virgin
appeared to him, and afked him in which he would chufe to excel, in philo-
fophy or divinity ; that he made choice of philofophy, and that the Holy
Virgin told him he Should furpafs all men of his time in that Science, but that,
as a punifhment for not chufing divinity, he Should, before his death, rclapfe
into his former Stupidity. They add, that, after this apparition, he Shewed a
prodigious deal of fenfe, and fo improved in all the Sciences, that he quickly
furpaffed his preceptors ; but that, three years before his death, he forgot in
an inftant all that he knew: and that, being at a Stand in the middle of a
ledture on divinity at Cologne, and endeavouring in vain to recal his ideas, he
was
ALBERTUS MAGNUS. IS*
was fenfible that it was the accomplifhment of the prediflion. Whence aroffe
the faying, that he was miraculoufly converted from an als into a philofopher,
and, afterwards, from a philofopher into an afs. Our Albertus was a very
little man *, and, after living eighty-feven years, died in the year of our redemp-
tion, 1280, at Cologne, on the i^th of November; his body was laid in the
middle quire of the convent of the Dominicans, and his entrails were carried to
Ratijbon •
his body was yet entire in the time of the Emperor Charles V'.
and was taken up by his command, and afterwards replaced in its firll monu-
ment. He wrote fuch a vaft number of books, that they amount to twenty-
ne volumes in folio, in the e dition of Lyons, 1651.
ROGER BACON,
commonly called
FRIAR BACON.
J^OGER BACON, an Englifhman, and a Francifcan friar, lived in the XIII
century. He was a great Ajlrologer, Chymiji, Mathematician, and Magi-
cian. There runs a tradition in English annals, that this friar made a brazen
head, under the rifing of the planet Saturn, which fpake with a man’s voice,
and gave refponfes to all his queftions. Francis Ficus fays, “ that he read
“ in a book wrote by Bacon, that a man might foretel things to come by means
l<
of the mirror Almucheji, compofed according to the rules of perfpedlive ;
pro-
“ vided he made ufe of it under a good conftellation, and firft brought his body
“ into an even and temperate ftate by chymiflry.” This is agreeable to what
John Ficus has maintained, that Bacon gave himfelf only to the ftudy of Natu-
ral Magic. This friar fent feveral inftruments of his own invention to pope
Clement IV. Several of his books have been publilhed [but they are now very
* When he came before the Pope, after Handing fotne time in his prefence, his Holinefs defired him
to rife, thinking he had been kneeling.
fcarce,)
1 82 BIO'GK APHi A ANTIQU'A.
fcarce,) viz. Specula Mathematka & PerfpeBiva, Speculum Alcbymice, De Mira-
bill Potefate Artis & Naturae, ,
Epijlolcs. cum Notis, &c. In all probability he
did not perform any thing by any compact with devils, but has only afcribed
to things a furprifing efficacy which they could not naturally have. He was
well verfed in judicial aftrology. His Speculum Aftrologiae was condemned
by Gerfon and Agrippa. Francis Picus and many others have condemned it
only becaufe the author maintains in it, that, with Jubmijfion to better judgments,
books of magic ought to be carefully preferved, becaufe the time draws near that,
for certain caufes not there fpecifed, they muft necefdrily be perufed and made
ufe of on fome occafons. Maude adds, “ that Bacon was fo much addidted to
judicial aftrology, that Henry de Hafa, William of Pans, and Nicholas Orefmius,
were obliged to inveigh fharply againft his writings.’' Bacon was fellow of
Brazen-nofe college in Oxford in the year 12; 6. He was beyond all compeer
the glory of the age he lived in, and may perhaps ftand in competition with
the greatefl that have appeared fince. It is wonderful, confidering the age
wherein he lived, how he came by fuch a depth of knowledge on all fubjedts.
His treatifes are compofed with that elegancy, concifenefs, and flrength, and
abound with fuch juft and exquifite obfervations on nature, that, among the
whole line of chymifts, we do not know one that can pretend to contend with
him. The reputation of his uncommon learning ftill furvives in England.
His cell is (hewn at Oxford to this day ; and there is a tradition, that it will
fall whenever a greater man than Bacon fhall enter within it. He wrote
many treatifes ; amongft which, fuch as are yet extant have beauties enough
to make us fenfible of the great lofs of the reft. What relates to chymiftry
are two fmall pieces, wrote at Oxford which are now in print, and the manu-
fcripts to be feen in the public library at Leiden having been carried thither
among Vojfus's manufcripts from England. In thefe treatifes he clearly fhews
how imperfedt metals may be ripened into perfedt ones. He entirely adopts
Geber s notion, that mercury is the common bafts of all metals, and fulphur the
cement ; and fhews that it is by a gradual depuration of the mercurial matter
by fublhr ation, and the acceffion of a fubile fulphur by fire, that nature makes
her gold 3 and that, if during the procefs, any other third matter happen to
intervene,
ROGER BACON 183
intervene, befides the mercury and fulphur, fome bafe metal arifes: fo that,
if we by imitating her operations ripen lead, we might eafily change it into
good gold.
Several of Bacon s operations have been compared with the experiments of
Monfeur Homberg, made by that curious prince the duke of Orleans by
which it has been found that Bacon has defcribed fome of the very things
which Homberg publiflied as his own difcoveries. Fbr inftance, Bacon teaches
exprefsly, that if a pure fulphur be united with mercury, it will commence gold:
on which very principle, Monfieur Homberg has made various experiments for
the production of gold, defcribed in the Memoires de l' Academ. Royale des
Sciences. His other phyfical writings fhew no lefs genius and force of mind.
In a treatife* Ofthefecret Works of Nature, he thews that a perfon who was
perfectly acquainted with the manner nature obferves in her operations,
would not only be able to rival, but to furpafs nature herfelf.
This author’s works are printed in 8vo and 1 2tno, under the title of Frater
Rogeritcs Baco de Secretis Artis & Naturec, but they are become very rare.
From a repeated perufal of them we may perceive that Bacon was no flranger
to many of the capital difcoveries of the prefent and paft ages. Gunpowder
he certainly knew ; thunder and lightning, he tells us, may be produced by art
and that fulphur, nitre, and charcoal, which when feparat'e have no fenfible
effeCt, when mingled together in a due proportion, and clofely confined, yield
a horrible crack. A more precife defeription of gunpowder cannot be given
with words : and yet a Jefuit, Barthoi. Schwartz, fome ages afterwards, has
had the honour of the difeovery. He likewife mentions a fort of inextinguilh-
able fire, prepared by art, which indicates he knew fomething of phofphorus.
And that he had a notion of the rarefaction of the air, and the ftruCture of the
air-pump, is paft contradiction. A chariot, he obferves, might be framed on
the principles of mechanics, which, being fuftained on very large globes, fpeci-
fically lighter than common air, would carry a man aloft through the
atmofphere 5 this proves that he likewife had a competent idea of aeroftation.
* De Secretis Nature Operibus.
There
BI0GR A PHI A ANTIQUA.
I 84
There are many curious fpeculations in this noble author, which will raife the
admiration of the reader : but none of them will affedt him with fo much
wonder, as to fee a perfon of the moft fublime merit fall a facrifice to the
wanton zeal of infatuated bigots. See Boerhaave’s Cbym. p. 18.
RAYMOND LULLY,
A FAMOUS ALCHYMIST.
jf^AYMOND LULLY, or Raymon Lull, comes the next in order. He was
born in the ifland of Majorca, in the year 1225, of a family of the firft
diftindtion, though he did not afliime his chymical character till towards the
latter part of his life.
Upon his applying himfelf to chymiftry, he foon began to preach another
fort of dodtrine ; infomuch that, fpeaking of that art, he fays it is only to
be acquired by dint of experiment and pradtice, and cannot be conveyed to the
underftanding by idle words and founds. He is the firft author I can find, who
confiders alchymy exprefsly with a view to the univerfal medicine : but after
him it became a popular purfuit, and the libraries were full of writings in
that vein.
Lully, himfelf, befide what he wrote in the fcholaftic way, has a good many
volumes wrote after his converfion : 'tis difficult to fay how many ; for it was
a common pradtice with his difciples and followers to uffier in their perform-
ances under their matter's name. “ I have perufed (Jays BoerhaaveJ the belt
“ part of his works, and find them, beyond expedtation, excellent : infomuch,
" that I have been almoft tempted to doubt whether they could be the work
“ of that age, fo full are they of the experiments and obfervations which
“ occur in our later writers, that either the books mufl be fuppofititious, or elfe
“ the
RAYMUND LULLY.
“ the ancient chymifts mull have been acquainted with a world of things which
“ pafs for the difcoveries of modern pradlice. He gives very plain intimations
“ of phofphorus, which he calls the Vejlal Fire, the Off
a Helmontii, &c. and
“ yet it is certain he wrote 200 years before either Helmont, or my Lord
“Bacon.”
He travelled into Mauritania, where he is fuppofed to have firfl met with
chymiftry, and to have imbibed the principles of his art from the writings of
Geber which opinion is countenanced by the conformity obfervable between
the two. The Spanijh authors afcribe the occafion of his journey to an amour
he had fallen in love, it feems, with a maiden of that country, who obftinately
refufed his addrefles. Upon enquiring into the reafon, fhe fhewed him a can-
cered breaft. Lully, like a generous gallant, immediately refolved on a voyage
to Mauritania, where Geber had lived, to feek fome relief for his miftrefs. He
ended his days in Africa j where, after having taken up the quality of million-
ary, and preaching the gofpel among the infidels, he was ftoned to death*.
* The hiftory of this eminent adept is very confufed. Mutius, an author, is exprefs, that that good man,
being wholly intent upon religion, never applied himfelf either to chymiftry or the philofopher’s-ftone :
and yet we have various accounts of his making gold. Among a variety of authors, Gregory of Thouloufe
aflerts that “ Lully offered Edward III. king of England,
a /apply offix millions to make war againjl the
Infidels Betides manufcripts, the following printed pieces bear Lully's name, viz. 1 he Theory of the
Pbilofopber’s Stone'. The Prafiife : The Tranfmutation of Metals: The Codicil: The Vade-Mecum : The
Book of Experiments : The Explanation of his Teftament ; The Abridgements, or Accufations : and The Power
of Riches
i
B b GEORGE
/
1 86 BIOGRAFHIA ANTIQVA,
GEORGE RIPLEY.
j^EORGE RIPLEY, an Englijhman by nation, and by profeffion a canon
or monk, of Britlingthon. His writings were all very good jn their kind,
being wrote exactly in the Ryle of Bacon, only more allegorical. As he was no
pbyfician, he does not meddle with any thing of the preparations of that kind
but treats much of the cure of metals, which in his language is the purification
and maturation thereof. He rigoroufly purfued Geber s and Bacon's principles,
and maintained, for inftance, with new evidence, that mercury is the univerfal
matter of all metals ; that this fet over the fire, with the pureft fulphur, will
become gold, but that if either of them be fick or leprous, i. e. infedted with
any impurity, inftead of gold, fome other metal will be produced. He adds,
that as mercury and fulphur are fufficient for the making of all metals : fo of
thefe may an univerfal medicine, or metal, be produced for curing of all the
fick ; which fome miftakenly underftood of an univerfal metal, efficacious in
all the difeafes of the human body.
and wrote on the dry topics of chymiftry. They lived in the 1 3th century,
but this is not allured. The whole art of enamelling is their invention, as
is alfo, that of colouring glafs, and precious Rones, by application of thin metal
JOHN, and ISAAC HOLLANDUS.
were two brothers, both of them of great parts and ingenuity.
plates.
JOHN AND ISAAC HOLLANPUS. 187
plates. Their writings are in the form of proceffes, and they defcribe all
their operations to the moft minute circumftances. The treatife of enamelling
is efteemed the greateft and moft finished part of their works : whatever
relates to the fufion, feparation, and preparation of metals, is here delivered..
They write excellently of dijlillation,
fermentation,
putrefaction, and their
effedts ; and feem to have underftood, at leaft, as much of thefe matters
as any of the moderns have done. They furnifti a great many experiments
on human blood ; which Van Helmont and Mr. Boyle have fince taken
for new difcoveries. I have a very large work in folio, under their name,
of the conftrudtion of chymical furnaces and inftruments. Their writings
are as eafily purchafed, as they are worthy of perufal, on account of
valuable fecrets in them, which may pave the way for greater difcoveries.
See Boerhaave, p. 21.
Bba PHILIPPUS
BIOGRAPHIA ANT I QUA*
1 88
PHILIPPUS AUREOLUS THEOPHRASTUS PARACELSUS
BOMBAST DE HOENHEYM,
THE PRINCE OF PHYSICIANS AND PHILOSOPHERS BY FIRE
GRAND PARADOXICAL PHYSICIAN;
THE TRISMEGISTUS OF SWITZERLAND;
FIRST REFORMER OF CHYMICAL PHILOSOPHY;
ADEPT IN ALCH YMY, CABALA, AND MAGIC
NATURE’S FAITHFUL SECRETARY;
MASTER OF THE ELIXIR OF LIFE AND THE PHILOSOPHER’S STONE ;
A NET THE
GREAT MONARCH OF CHYMICAL SECRETS;
Njw living in his Tomb, whither he retired difgufted with the Vices and Follies of Mankind, fupporting
himfelf with his own
OUINTESSENTIA VIT.E.
pARACELSUS was born, as he himfelf writes, in the year 1494, in a vil-
lage in Switzerland called Hoenheym (q. d. ab alto nidoj two miles diilant
from Zurich. His father was a natural fon of a great mailer of the Teutonic
order, and had been brought up to medicine, which he pradlifed accordingly in
that obfcure corner. He was mailer of an excellent and copious library, and
is faid to have become eminent in his art j fo that Paracelfus always fpeaks of
him with the higheil deference, and calls him laudatijjimus medicus in eo vico
Of fuch a father did Paracelfus receive his firil difcipline. After a little
courfe of iludy at home he was committed to the care of Trithemius, the ce-
lebrated abbot of Spanheim, who had the character of an adept himfelf, and
wrote of the Cabala, being at that time a reputed magician. Here he chiefly
learnt languages and letters ; after which he was removed to Sigifmund
Fugger to learn medicine, furgery, and chymiilry ; all thefe mailers, efpecially
the
PHILTPPUS AUREOEUS THEOPHRASTUS PAR A^ELSUS. I
the la ft, Paracelfus ever fpeaks of with great veneration ; fo that he was not
altogether fo rude and unpoliihed as is generally imagined. Thus much we
learn from his own writings, and efpecially the preface to his Leflfer Surgery,.,
where he defends himfelf againft his accufers. At twenty years of age he
undertook a journey through Germany and Hungary, vifiting all the mines of
principal note, arid contracting an acquaintance with the miners and work-
men, by which means he learnt every thing relative to metals, and the art
thereof : in this enquiry he {hewed an uncommon affiduity and refolution. He
gives us an account of the many dangers he had run from earthquakes, falls
of {tones, floods of water, cataracts, exhalations, damps, heat,, hunger, and
third; j and every where takes occafion to inlift on the value of an art acquired
on fueh hard terms. The fame inclination carried him as far as Mufcovy,
where as he was in quelt of mines near the frontiers of Tartary he was taken
priloner by that people, and carried before the great Cham ; during his cap-
tivity there he learnt various fecrets, till, upon the Cham’s fending an em-
bafly to the Grand Signior, with his own fon at the head of it, Paracelfus
was font along with him in quality of companion. On this occafion he came
to CanJlantiijople in the twenty-eighth year of his age, and was there taught
the fecret of the philofophePs Jlone by a generous Arabian, who made him
this noble prefent, as he palls it, Azoth. This incident we have from Helmont
only; for Paracelfus himfelf, who is ample enough on his other travels, fays
nothing of his captivity. At his return from Turkey he pradlifed as a furgeon
in- the Imperial army, and performed many excellent cures therein ; indeed, it
cannot be denied but that he was excellent in that art, of which his greatfur-
gery,
printed in folio, will ever be a {landing monument. At his return to
his native country he aflumed the title of utriufque medicines doBor, or dodtor
both of external and internal medicine or furgery ; and grew famous in both,
performing fir beyond what the practice of that time could pretend to and
no wonder, for medicine was then in a poor condition the practice and
the very language was all Galenical and Arabic ; nothing was -inculcated but
Arifotle, Galen,
andthe^r^r; Hippocrates was not read ; nay, there was
no edition of his writings, and fcar.ce was he ever mentioned. Their theory
confided
1 90
I
BIOGRAPHIA ANTIQUA.
1
confiftcd in the knowledge of the four degrees, the temperaments, &c. and
their whole practice was confined to venefedlion, purgation, vomiting, clyf-
mata, &c. Now, in this age a new difeafe had broke out, and fpread itfelf
over Europe, viz. the venereal diforder the common Galenic medicines had
here proved altogether ineffectual ; bleeding, purging, and cleanfing medicines
were vain ;
and the phyficians were at their wit’s end. Jac Carpus, a cele-
brated anatomift and furgeon at Bologne, had alone been mafter of the cure,
which was by mercury adminiftered to raife a falivation ; he had attained this
fecret in his travels through Spain and Italy, and pradtifed it for fome years,
and with fuch fuccefs and applaufe, that it is incredible what immenfe riches
this one nojlrum brought him (it is faid upon good authority, that in one
year he cleared fix thoufand piftoles) he acknowledged himfelf, that he did
not know the end of his own wealth ; for the captains, merchants, governors,
commanders, &c. who had brought that filthy difeafe from America, were
very well content to give him what fums he pleafed to alk to free them
from it. Paracelfus about this time having likewife learnt the properties of
mercury, and moft likely from Carpus, who undertook the fame cure but in a
very different manner ; for whereas Carpus did all by falivation Paracelfus
making up his preparation in pills attained his ends in a gentler manner. By
this he informs us he cured the itch, leprofy, ulcers, Naples difeafe, and
even gout, all which diforders were incurable on the foot of popular practice,
and thus was the great bafis laid for all his future fame and fortune.
Paracelfus,
thus furnilhed with arts, and arrived at a degree of eminence
beyond any of his brothers in the profelfion, was invited by the curators of
the univerfity of Bazil to the chair of profeffor of medicine and philofophy in
that univerfity. The art of printing was now a new thing, the tafte for
learning and arts was warm *, and the magiftracy of Bazil were very induf-
* We feel oorfelves happy in being able to fay, that the taftc for learning and arts (notwithftanding
the follies of the age) was never more prevalent than in the prefent time ; the year 1801 commences
an age of flourifliing fcience, in which even our females feem to wifh to bear a part—inftance, a lady of
quality, who went in her carriage the other day to Fofter-lanc, Cheapfide, and bought a portable
blackfmith’s forge for her private amufement ;
her perfon was ftrong and athletic, and very fit for the
manual praftice of handling iron, and working other metallic experiments.
trious
PHILIPPUS AUREOLUS THEOPHRASTUS PARACELSUS. I 9
trious in procuring profeftors of reputation from all parts of the world. They
had already got Dejid. Erafmus, profeflor of theology, and J. Oporinus profeflor
of the Greek tongue ; and now in 1527 Puracelfus was aflbciated in the 33d
year of his age. Upon his firft entrance into that province, having to make a
public fpeech before the univerfity, he ported up a very elegant advertife-
xnent over the doors inviting every body to his dodtrine. At his firft ledlure he
ordered a brafs veflei to be brought into the middle of the fchool, where
after he had cart in fulphur and nitre, in a very folemn manner he burnt the
books of Galen and Avicennay alledging that he had held a difpute with them
in the gates of hell, and had fairly routed and overcome them. And hence
he proclaimed, that the phyficians Ihould all follow him ; and no longer ftyle
themfelves Galenijls, but Paraceljijls.—<(
Know,” fays he, " phyficians, my
cap has more learning in it than ail your heads, my beard has more experience
than your whole academies : Greeks,. Latins, French, Germans, Italians, I
will be your king.”
While he was here profeftor he read his book De Tartaro, de Gradibus, and
De Compojitiombus, in public ledtures, to which he added a commentary on
the book De Gradibus ; all thefe he afterwards printed at Bazil for the ufe
of his difciples ; lo that thefe muft be allowed for genuine writings; about the
fame time he wrote De Calculo, which performance Helmont fpeaks of
with high approbation.
Notwithstanding his being profefior in fo learned an univerfity, he un-
derftood but a very little Latin y his long travels, and application to
bufinefs, and difufe of the language, had very much difcjualified him for
writing or fpeaking therein ; and his natural warmth rendered, him very un-
fit for teaching at all. Hence, though his auditors and difciples were at firft
very numerous, yet they very much fell off, and left him preaching to the walls..
-—In the mean time he abandoned himfelf to drinking at certain feafons y
Oporinusy who, was always near him, has, the good nature to fay, he was never
fober ; but that he tippled on from morning to night, and from night to morn-
ing, in a continual round. At length he foon. became weary of his profeftor-
fhip, and after three years continuance therein relinquifhed it, faying, that
no
1 92 BIOGRAPHIA ANTIQUA.
no language befides the German was proper to reveal the fecrets of chymiftry
in.
After this he again betook himfelf to an itinerant life, travelling and drink-
ing, and living altogether at inns and taverns, continually flufhed with liquor,
and yet working many admirable cures in his way. In this manner he paffed
four years from the 43d to the 47th year of his life, when he died at an inn
at Saltzburg, at the fign of the White Horfe, on a bench in the chimney-
corner. Oporinus relates, that after he had put on any new thing, it never
came off his back till he had worn it into rags j he adds, that notwithftanding
his excefs in point of drinking, he was never addidted to venery.—But there
is this reafon for it : when he was a child, being negledted by his nurfe, a
hag gelded him in a place where three ways met, and fo made a eunuch of
him ; accordingly in his writings he omits no opportunity of railing againft
women.—Such is the life of Paracelfus ; fuch is the immortal man, who
fick of life retired into a corner of the world, and there fupports himfelf with
his own Quintefence of Life.
In his life time he only publifhed three or four books, but after his death
he grew prodigioufly voluminous, fcarce a year paffing but one book or other
was publifhed under his name, faid to be found in fome old wall, ceiling, or
the like. All the works publifhed under his name were printed together at
Scrajburg in the year 1603, in three volumesfoIiot and again in 1616. J. Opo-
rinusy that excellent profeffor and printer, before named, who conftantly at-
tended Paracelfus for three years as his menial fervant, in hopes of learning
fome of his fecrets, who publifhed the works of Vefalius, and is fuppofed to
have put them in that elegant language wherein they now appear : this Opo-
rinus in an epiflle to Monavius concerning the life of Paracelfus,
profefies
himfelf furprized to find fo many works of his matter , for, that in all the
time he was with him he never wrote a word himfelf, nor ever took pen in
j
hand, but forced Oporinus to write what he dictated ; and Oporinus wondered
much, how fuch coherent words and difcourfe which might even become the
wifeft perfons, fhould come from the mouth of a drunken man. His work
called
\
FHILIPPUS AUItEOLUS THEOPHRASTUS PARACELSUS. 1 93
called Archidoxa Medicines., as containing, the principles and maxims of the
art, nine books of which were published at firft ; and the author in the pro-
legomena to them, fpeaks thus I intended, to have publifhed my ten books of
st
Archidoxa but finding mankind unworthy of.finch a treafiure as the tenth,
“ I keep it clofie in my occiput, and havefirmly refiolved never to bring it thence
“ till you have all abjured Aristotle, Avicen, and Galen, and havefiworn
“ allegiance to. Par acelsus. alone.”
However, the book did at length get abroad, though by what means is not
known it is undoubtedly an excellent 7
piece, and may be ranked among the
principal productions in the way of chymiftry, that have ever appeared ; whe-
ther or no it be Paracelfus's we cannot affirm, but there is one thing fpeaks
in its behalf, viz. it contains a great many things which have fince been
trumped up for great nofirums", and Pan Helmont's Lithonthriptic and Alcaheft
are apparently taken from hence ; among the genuine writings of Paracelfius •
are like wife reckoned, that De Ortu Rerum Naturalium, De Transformations
Rerum Naturalium, and De Pita Rerum Naturalium. The reft are fpurious
or very doubtful, particularly his theological works.
The great fame and fuccefs of this man, which many attribute to hia
pofieffing an univerfial medicine may be accounted, for from other principles. It
is certain he was well acquainted with the ufe and virtue of opium, which the
Galenifis of thofe times all rejected as cold in the fourth degree., Oporinus
relates, that he made up certain little pills of the colour, figure, and fize of
moufe-turds, which were nothing but opium. Thefe he called by a barbarous
fort of name, his laudanum q.d. laudable medicine ; he always carried them
with him, and prefcribed them in dyffenteries, and all cafes attended with
intenfe pains, anxieties, deliriums, and obftinate wakings ; but to be alone
pofiefied of the ufe of fo extraordinary and noble a medicament as opium, was
fufficient to make him famous.
Another grand remedy with Paracelfus was turbith mineral', this is firft
mentioned in his Clein Spital Boeck, or Cbirurgia Minor, where he gives the
preparation.—In refpedt of the philofopher’s ftone Oporinus fays, he often
wondered to fee him one day without a farthing in his pocket, and the next
194 BIOGRAPHIA ANTIQUA.
day, full of money ; that he took nothing with him when he went abroad.
He adds, that he would often borrow money of his companions, the carmen
and porters, and pay it again in twenty-four hours with extravagant intereft,
and yet from what fund nobody but himfelf knew. In the Theatrum Alchemic?
he mentions a treafure, hid under a certain tree; and from fuch like grounds
they fuppofed him to poifefs the art of making gold ; but it was hard if
fuch noble noftrums as he polfeffed would not fubfift him without the
lapis phdofophorum.
JOHN RUDOLPH GLAUBER.
J
R. GLAUBER, a celebrated chymift of Amjlerdam, accounted the Para->
celfus of his time : he had travelled much and by that means attained to
a great many fecrets. He wrote above thirty tradts, in fome of which he
adted the phyfician ; in others, the adept ; and in others, the metal-lift. He
principally excelled in the laft capacity, and alchymy.
He was a perfon of eafy and genteel addrefs, and, beyond difpute, well
verfed in chymiftry : being author of the fait, ftill ufed in the (hops, called
Sal Glauberi ; as alfo of all the falts, by oil of vitriol, &c. He is noted for
extolling his arcanae and preparations, and is reported to have traded unfairly
with his fecrets : the belt of them he would fell, at exceffive rates, to chymifts
and others, and would afterwards re-fell them, or make them public, to
increafe his fame ; whence he was continually at variance with them.
The principal of his writings are De Furnist and De Metallis, which,
though wrote in Dutch, have been tranflated into Latin and Englijh. It was
Glauber who fhewed, before the States of Holland, that there is gold contained
in fand ; and made an experiment thereof to their entire fatisfadtion : but fo
much
DOCTOR DEE, AND SIR EDWARD KELLY. 195
much lead, fire, and labour, being employed in procuring it, that the art
would not pay charges However he plainly demonflrated, that there is no
earth, fand* fulphur, or fait, or other matter, but what contains gold in a
greater or lefs quantity. In fhort, he pofTefled a great many fecrets, which are -
at this time in the hands of fome of our modern chymifls.
DOCTOR. DEE, and SIR EDWARD KELLY,
jpOCTOR JOHN DEE, and SIR EDWARD KELLY, knight, being
profeffed affociates, their ftory is belt delivered together. They have
fome title to the philofopher’s flone in common fame Dee, befides his being
deep in chymiftry, was very well verfed in mathematics, particularly geometry
and aftrology : but Sir Edward Kelly appears to have been the leading man in
alchymy. In fome of Dee’s books are found fhort memoirs of the events of his
operations : as , Donum Dei, five ounces. And in another place, " This day
Edward Kelly difcovered the grandfecret to me. Jit nomen Domini henediSlum
AJhmole fays, abfolutely, they were mafters of the powder of projection, and,
with a piece not bigger than the fmallefl grain of land, turned an ounce and a
quarter of mercury into pure gold :
-
but here is an equivoque ; for granting
them pofleffed of the powder of projection, it does not appear they had the
fecret of making it. The ftory is, that they found a confiderable quantity of it
in the ruins of Glajlonbury Abbey, with which they performed many notable
tranfmutations -for the fatisfaCtion of feveral perfons. Kelly, in particular, is
faid to have given away rings of gold wire to the tune of 4000I. at the
* It has been afferted by feveral eminent chymifts, that it might be performed to advantage, as the
procefsi s very limple, and takes up but little time : all that is reqttilite is lilver, fand, and litharge.
> G c 2 marriage
196 BIOGRAPHIA ANTI QUA*
marriage of his fervant maid. And a piece of a brafs warming-pan being cut
out by order of queen Elizabeth , and fent to them when abroad, was returned
pure gold. Likewife Dee made a prefent to the landgrave of Heffe of twelve
Hungarian horfes, which could never be expedited from a man of his circum-
ftances without fome extraordinary means.
In the year 1591 they went into Germany, and fettled fome time at Drebona,
in Bohemia ; the defign of which journey is ve.ry myfterious. Some fay their
defign was to vifit the alchymifts of thefe countries, in order to get fome light
into the art of making the powder. Accordingly they travelled through
Poland, &c. in quell: thereof, and, fome fay, attained it; others fay, not.
Others, again, will make them fent by the queen as fpies, and that alchymy
was only a pretence, or means, to bring them into confidence with the people.
But what will give moll light upon this fubjedt, is a book, now extant, wrote
by Dee, entitled Dee's Conferences with Spirits, but fome conjedlure it to be
with Trithemius's mere Cryptography ; which light Dodtor Hook takes it in.
However, this book is truly curious in refpedl of the many magical operations
there difplayed, it being wrote journal-fa lb ion by the Doctor’s own hand, and
relates circumflantially the conferences he held with fome fpirits (either good
or bad) in company with Sir Edward Kelly.
They were no fooner gone out of England, than Dee's library was opened by
the queen’s order, and 4000 books, and 700 choice manufcripts, were taken
away on pretence of his being a conjuror. That princefs loon after ufed means
to bring him back again, which a quarrel with Kelly happening to promote, he
returned in 1596, and in 1598 was made warden of Manchefer college, where
he died*.
Some very curious manufcripts, with the chryfial he ufed to invoke the
fpirits into, are at this time carefully laid up in the Britijh Mufeum\.
* Authors differ very much in refpecf of the place where Do&or Dee refigned his life : it appears
from the molt eminent hiftorians that he died at his hottfe at Mortlake.
f Although Dee's manufci ipts, and his Magic Chryfial, are to be feen at the Mufeum, there arc fix or
fcven individuals in London who aflcrt they have the fione in their pofleffion ;
thereby wifhing to deceive
the credulous, and to tempt them to a purehafe at an enormous price.
As
THE CONCLUSION. 197
As for Sir Edward Kelly, the Emperor, fufpeCting he had the fecret of the
philofophers in his poffeflion, clapped him up in prifon, in hopes to become
a fharer in the profits of tranfmutation : however, Kelly defeated his intentions.
After having been twice imprifoned, the laft time he was fhut up endeavouring
to make his efcape by means of the fheets of his bed tied together, they
happened to flip the knots, and fo let him fall, by which he broke his
leg, and foon after loft his life.
THE CONCLUSION.
Having collected the molt interefting and curious accounts of the lives of
thofe great men, fo famous for their fpeculations in philofophic learning,
we draw to a conclufion ; having only to add, that we have fufficiently
difcovered in this biographical fketch whatfoever was neceflary to prove the
authenticity of Our Art, which we have delivered faithfully and impartially,
noting, at the fame time, the various opinions of different men at different ages*
likewife, we have taken fufficient trouble to explain what is meant by the word
Magic, and to clear up the term from the imputation of any diabolical affociation
with evil fpirits, &c. Alfo, how nearly it is allied to our religious duties, we
refer the reader to the annotations under the article Zoroajler, where we
have fpoke of the Magi, or wife men, proving the firft who adored Chrift were
actually magicians. It is enough that we have fpoke of the principal characters
renowned in pad ages for their laborious inquifition into the labyrinth of
occult and natural philofophy ; there are many other philofophers {landing
upon ancient and modem record. A copious and general biography falls not
within the limits of our work. We have introduced fome characters (applica-
ble to the fubjeCt before us) mofl diftinguifhed for occult learning; of which
kind of fcience, whether by a particular influence of planetary configuration,
which may have directed and impelled my mind and intellects to the obferva-
tion and fludy of nature, and her Ample operations, as well as to the more occult,
I leave to the judgment of the aftrologers, to whofe infpeCtion I fubmit a figure *
of
iq8 THE CONCLUSION.
of my nativity, which I {hall annex to a fketch of my own hiftory, which I'
mean to make the fubjed of a future publication, including a vaft number of
curious experiments in occult and chymical operations, which have fell either,
under my own obfervation, or have been tranfmitted to me from others. In?
refped of the aftrologic art, (as we have already obferved) it has fuch an
affinity with talifmanic experiments, &c. that no one can bring any work to a
complete effed without a due knowledge and obfervation of the qualities and
effeds of the conftellations (which occafioned us to give it the title of the Con-
ftellatory Art ;)
likewife, a man muft be well acquainted with the nature,
qualities, and effeds, of the four elements, and of the animal, vegetable,
and mineral kingdoms; which knowledge cannot better be obtained than by
chymical experience, for it does, as I may fay, unlock the fecret chambers of
nature, and introduces the ftudent into a world of knowledge, which could not
be attained but by chymical analyzation, whereby we decompound mixt
bodies, and reduce them to their fimple natures, and comd to a thorough'
acquaintance with thofe powerful and adive principles, caufing the wonderful
tranfmutations of one compound body into another of a different fpecies, as is
to be feen in the courfe of our operations upon falts and metals, giving us clear,
and comprehenfive ideas of the principles of life or generation, and putrefadion
or death.
Finally, to conclude, we are chiefly to confider one thing to be attained as
the ground of perfedion in the reft : /. e. The great Firft Caufe, the Eternal
JViJdom, to know the Creator by the contemplation of the creature. This is
the grand fecret of the philofophers, and the mafter-key to all fciences both
human and divine, for without this we are ftill wandering in a labyrinth of per-
plexity and errors, of darknefs and obfcurity : for this is the fum and perfedion
of all learning, to live in the fear of God, and in love and charity with all men.
FINIS-
W ’Bhckader, Printer,
10,
Tooke’s Court, Chancery Lane-
£L aa&aut- XiXuxi' -faxi.tZ&X-
/W 'l^wcrrurfif
/XXXc ^//ey&f, /71-7 977
tn*-' <71
yy ,
,
jfftO- ~Zye*7- ^rpt^'y ToXyc^ 77 >
TtS
^?susrr%47l ! /6n Ca?*7W^di^-&f+st^, ^/e^rryti-^fenst^H }
-o/7/^-tC^J^C ^£srr?-47&Jrr>i-7-fJ
Xe'ntyr^oTTl^ OTn^^e^riT- 7170710^0— >
Trr777nr)-i-es77C- <710X1 eX^TCejfarzj
J
^J^7^i, ,
-«*W /
, </y^AX^f> afa-£x^ snaXcc^ Utto-Ctm,
#4 neajz- aa ^cam TtxXX ^cyy sX+a-iX,
^*0 j^ad- erthcSl /a^/rrja . ^n^caaT^xz- t
^m^Xy?ax2^}7 rmcrtf&'dt &^ArXjfX, $&t -
&c/>ecZn7*
^6xxo^>X •> Ma- afaXzf XdAyCTie?^
s> <z^ 7
-/ - ' •
- ^ yy /w • yy
rxgj^tayzyze/ ao-c^
/rrdX y^TM-cmfe?
7/a
•'— -tv > «-' 1 »'«- jr
1*-
ittTyyyy /*-.xry?r t y^ny^Ty
afc. ~m afc=>^_ ^ x ' /
^e-
