{"name":"Abstract Of Medical Transactions At The Temple Of Health","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1780__graham___abstract_of_medical_transactions_at_the_temple_of_health.pdf","mytitle":"Abstract Of Medical Transactions At The Temple Of Health","mylang":"de"}
A N
A B S T
FROM
A BOOK JUST PUBLISHEP,
INTITULED,
" Medical Transactions at the Temple of Health in London, in the
course of the year 1780:" or, An account of upwards of five
hundred selected, extraordinary, and well authenticated CURES
performed by Electricity, and by Dr. Graham's Three great
Medicines, Electrical Æther, Nervous .Æthereal Balsam, and Jrn-
perial Pills !
THIS GREAT AND MOST USEFUL INSTITUTION,
THE TEMPLE OF HEALTH!
(Established in the Centre of the Royal Terrace, Jde/phiJ
Is now open for the reception of patients, and for the dispensation of
the three great Medicines therein prepared, every day from eight
in the morning till eight at night, under the immediate direction
of Dr. Graham, the sole Proprietor and Director of it, and of
the Temple of Hymen in Pall Mall, London.
IT is well known that Dr. Graham was regularly brought up to
the profession of Medicine at the celebrated University of Edinr
burgh, and that for many years past he has travelled over most part?
of the world, with the view of bringing to perfection this most use
ful and most honourable art. His ntw and improved methods of
curing the most rooted and most dangerous diseases, consist in regi
men, herbs, simple medicines, the choicest articles of the Materitf
Medicaand æthereal essences, rendered most salutary and active by the
most powerful vital agents in nature, viz. electricity;, vivifying air, music,
and magnetism ; or, in other words, by gently conveying to those at
the altar, or on the Medico-electrical throne, without shock, or any
kind of uneasiness, into the general system, to the seat of the dis
ease, or only to parts particularly affected,—the pure, active, balmy,
bracing, and restorative effluvia of medicines, simply, or combined
with full genial tides of the celestial electric fire or vital light, mag
netic effluvium, vivifying æthereal air, or with any of those great
primary elementary principles which are the universal Pabulum, or
vital food of animal life, and indeed of universal nature ! The great
pumbers who .daily by these means are cured radically pf the,
A »ftst
!rCfb. <f. \?L.
s 2 ]
most dangerous and most confirmed diseases, are really astonishing—
even after they have been turned incurable out of hospitals, and
given over by the most celebrated of those physicians who stand in
the regular medical trammels. Dr. Graham, therefore, for the public
good, as well as for his own honour and emolument, thinks it his
duty to depart from what is called the regular mode, by thus pub
licly announcing the nature and properties of these three most valu
able medicines, and the following important facts.
ist. Electrical æther ! This admirable composition is, without ex
ception, the purest and most subtil essence in nature. It is a combi
nation or concentration of all her elementary powers and vivifying in
fluences ! being a quintessence exalted by solar light, and extracted by ,
the electrical or celestial fire, from the richest aromatics, with the
balmiest and most active æther.—The experience of every day proves,
that for preventing every kind of malignant or infectious disease, and
for curing all low, lingering, nervous and putrid disorders, and espe
cially pains, weaknesses, and other disorders of the head, breast, and
stomach, nothing on earth can equal this most noble medicine, the
electrical aether. Its effects are seemingly miraculous in refreshing
and recruiting those who are relaxed and exhausted by inordinate and
excessive sacrifices to Venus or Bacchus. It coils up and strengthens
both body and mind, acting like fresh- oil poured into a tremulous
expiring lamp ; and it is most earnestly recommended to those who
attend courts of justice, sick persons, public meetings, or any of
those places of amusement where hundreds of people are crammed
up, with hundreds of burning candles or lamps, in one building.
2d. Nervous æthereal balsam ! or the balmy bracer of relaxed
fibres, and restorative æthereal oil for decayed and worn-out constitu
tions. If the reader can conceive of the richest, purest, and most
strengthening parts of all the cordial, bracing, and nourishing things
he is acquainted with in nature being extracted, purified, exalted, and
concentrated into a small compass, by the irresistible powers of pure
æther and the celestial or electrical fire, he may also conceive of the
nature and properties of this most precious balsam, which instantly
cures all those lesser nervous complaints occasioned by tea, coffee, bad
wine, and pernicious liquors. In lowness of spirits too, in head
aches, tingling of the ears, dimness of sight, lots of memory, apo
plexies, convulsions, hysteric sits ; in consumptive and asthmatic com
plaints ; and in all those tormenting lingering fevers, heats and chilli
nesses, and in those tremors and quiverings of body, and restless
anxieties, dread, honors, gloominess, discontent and unsettledness of
mind, which proceed from an irregular circulation of the blood and
animal spirits, or from fpalms, debility, or relaxation of the nervous
system, this æthereal balsam will always be found of immediate ser
vice, and by a gentle and persevering course of it, and of the impe
rial pills, a perfect and lasting cure will in general be obtained ; be
cause by them the blood and juices are purified, sweetened, tem
pered, aud brought to a pure fluid state; while the solids are braced
%, . up
t 3 1
up and strengthened ; the genial vital warmth promoted; the animal
spirits increased and invigorated ; and the nerves sheathed, nourished,
steadied, and firmly coiled up.
3d. Imperial electrical pills ! or universal purifiers of the blood
and juices. This title was given to them to mark their infinite supe
riority over all the analeptic or stomachic pills, antiscorbutic drops,
and alterative medicines that perhaps ever were invented, or which
are now used in the world. In all weaknesses, oppressions, flatulen
cies, cholicky gripings, want of appetite, and windy distensions of
the stomach and bowels, especially when those uneasy and tormenting
complaints proceed from scorbutic, venereal, gouty, rheumatic and
bilious humours, fretting, corroding, and irritating the nervous coats
of the stomach and bowels ; or from heats, acidities, crudities, and
indigestions, occasioned by full and foul feeding, excessive drinking of
strong and bad wines, spirituous or malt liquors, heats and colds, or
forfeits ; irregular and late hours as to sleep ; want of exercise and
perspiration, &c. &c. in all such cases, the imperial pills are con
stantly found to give immediate relief, and by a regular and gentle
perseverance in the use of them, a perfect and lasting cure will as
suredly be obtained.
Rubbing and exercise are universally allowed to be good for the re
covery, as well as for the preservation of health. Now these three
great medicines act by exciting the electrical fire in the body and
limbs, which removes obstructions, animating and bracing the whole
system. The imperial pills, therefore, the æthereal balsam, and elec
trical æther, being filled with the vivifying electrical or celestial fire
and solar light, which the balmy resins of which they are composed
have imbibed and do retain, promote effectually all the natural and
necessary circulations and secretions, and consequently must be of the
greatest service to those persons, especially to females, who take too
little free air and exercise, though at the same time they live full, and
are of a costive or irregular habit. Upon the same rational grounds
they are found exceedingly beneficial in those heats, spasms, pains, and
uneasinesses in females, which are occasioned by the periodical fulness
of their vessels, and from certain other causes: but their good effects
in gouty, dropsical, scorbutic, and rheumatic cases, and in all scurfy
eruptions or pimples of the face, fores, blotches, or scurf on the
body and limbs, however inveterately blended in the blood, however
obstinately confirmed in the constitution from former follies, impru-
dencies, and irregularities (especially from debilitating evacuations)
are really astonishing. The dreadful train of sufferings which the
miserable patients in the above cafes endure, and even the most ob
stinate rheumatic, gouty, or venereal pains, swellings and weaknesses
of the joints, &c. yield very readily to the superior and irresistible
efficacy of electricity, and of these excellent pills and æthereal bal
sam ; and they are a diuretic of so soft yet searching a nature, that
they give instant ease in the severest fits of the stone and gravel ; and
,by persevering in a proper course of them, and at the same time of
A 2 my
- J
C 4 3
my electrical æther, and drinking veal broth with gum arabic dissolved
in it, or of a decoction of liquorice, linseed, poppy heads, and marsh-
mallow roots poured upon shred leeks, and bruised fennil or anniseeds,
with plenty of treacle or honey,—.they often have been found to cure
radically those dangerous and most excruciating disorders—the stone,
gravel, and all obstructions and weaknesses of the urinary organs.
These three great medicines are sold in phials of one guinea,
ios. 6d. and 5s. each, with very ample directions, at the Temple of
Health, Adelphi, and at the Temple of Hymen in Pall Mall.
From the Medical Transactions at the Temple of Health, just
published, the following important cures, and most respectable names
are extracted, viz.
Fourteen cures in obstinate and severe maladies, especially in the
palsy, rheumatism, &c. which Dr. Graham lately had the high honour
of performing immediately under the eye, and of having attested by
(he hand-writing of her Grace the Duchess of Devonshire, the Right
Honourable Lord and Lady Spencer, the Right Honourable Lady Cler-
mont, his most Serene Highness Frederic Prince of Hesse Cassel, and by
many others of the first nobility, both in church and state, in Europe ;
who, for the encouragement of the afflicted, and general benefit of
mankind, were pleased, voluntarily and unsolicited, to honour Dr.
Graham with the above-mentioned certificate.
N° 15. Mrs. Catharine Macaulay Graham, the justly celebrated his
torian (sister to John Sawbridge, Esq; Member of Parliament for the
city of London) cured of that variety of symptoms which accompany
a relaxed system, and an irritable state of nerves, viz. pains in the
stomach, indigestion, trembling of the nerves, shivering fits, repeated
pains in her ears and throat, and continual agitations of body and
mind, which had reduced a constitution, originally delicate, to an al
most insupportable degree of weakness and debility. These com
plaints had been brought on or increased by a seven years severe ap
plication, in writing her invaluable History of England, of which eight
volumes in quarto are already published.
To the letter which that lady had the goodness to publish, contain
ing a full account of her late cafe and cure, addressed to Dr. Graham,
is annexed the following Postscript :
*' I am happy, Sir, in being able, from what I have seen, and from
what has come to my certain knowledge, to congratulate you on the
great success which has attended YOUR MEDICINES and methods
of cure by Electricity, &c. in the most desperate stages of con
sumptive, asthmatic, nervous, bilious, and scorbutic diseases : such in
stances cannot fail to establish the reputation of tour medicines
and medical practice, to your own honour and emolument, and to the
blessingpf mankind in general, in matters of the highest sublunary im
portance, namely the prolongation of life, and the enjoyment of health.
*H!* Mrs. Macaulay has lately man ied Dr. Graham's only brother. At
the lime of performing so great and so important a cure, and of receiv
ing the letter aljoye alluded to, and which is published at full length,
in
I s }
in Dr. Graham's medical practice, Dr. Graham little expected the
high honour and happiness of so near an alliance with so great and so
amiable a character.
The lady of Sir John Miller, Baronet, of Bath-Easton Villa, near
Bath, cured of a rheumatic pain in her face to which her ladyship had
been subject for some years; and likewise of head-aches, colds, and
slight sore throats. In the fame letter which she had the goodness to
fend to Dr. Graham, with leave to publish it, her ladyship describes
the cafe and cure of her own French maid, of a complication of disor
ders, especially of severe nervous complaints, adding, " I think it, Sir,
incumbent on me thus publickly to mention, that, to my certain know
ledge, you have proved your skill in the cure of three other persons,
whose maladies, in many respects, were of a still more dangerous
nature.
N°ai. The following letter is from the Rev. Dr. Thomas Wilson,
Rector of St. Stephen's, Walbrook, and Senior Prebendary of
Westminster.
To Dr. GRAHAM.
SIR,,
I have no sort of objection to your mentioning in the most public
manner the perfect cure you happily performed in my cafe, by means
Of YOUR ÆTHEREAL AND ELECTRICAL MEDICINES, &C. I had
laboured, for many years, under an oppression of the lungs ; attended
in the spring and fall of the year with a troublesome and tormenting
cough. My complaints had baffled the skill of the best physicians in
London.—The hot well water at Bristol I had often tried, but to no
effect ; and the nauseous drugs from the apothecaries lhops were so
far from giving me ease, that they really increased my sufferings, in
somuch, that I had great reason to apprehend a confirmed asthma
and consumption. It is now, Sir, near twelve months since you cured
me, and I have not had the least return of those troublesome and
very dangerous complaints,
I am, dear Sir,
Alfred-house, Bath, Your sincere friend,
Jan. 5th. Thomas Wilson.
N° 22. G. F. Esq; of Bath, cured of deafness, and of a scorbutic
complaint, by a three weeks course of my medicines, and electricity.
N° 23. The Hon. Mrs. at Bath, cured of a severely painful and
complicated jaundice, in a/ewdays, by means of my three great medi
cines, assisted with electricity ; and in about six weeks by continuing
the medicines, not only the jaundice with all its concomitant symp-
tomps were effectually cured, but even the paralytic cold numbness,
low spirits, &c. perfectly removed,
N° 24. A lady of fortune at Bath, well advanced in years, by my bal
sam and electrical æther, cured of a most excruciating pain in her head,
day and night, and almost total blindness, of near a year's standing,
occasioned by an operation performed on her eye by the most cele
brated oculist in Europe.
t 6 ]
N° 25. H. Disney Roebuck, Esq; of the Crescent-, Bath, cured of
hardness of hearing and noise in his ears, occasioned by a weak irri
table relaxed slate of nerves, by a three weeks course of my electrical
aether, and æthereal balsam, assisted by mild electricity.
N" 26. Mr. Edmund Rack, secretary to the Philosophical Society,
and to the Society for the encouragement of Arts, Manufactures, and
Commerce, at Bath (recommended by the Rev. Dr. Wilson) cured of
a severe asthmatic and consumptive complaint, and of a most trouble
some congh of more than seven years standing, by a short course of my
three great medicines, and a few genial electrical operations.
N" 27—8. Mrs. Brett of New King's-street, and Mrs. Lambert of
the Circus, Bath, both completely cured of deafness, and the most
distracting noise irr their ears, occasioned by a want of good wax, and
by weak relaxed nerves.
N° 29. A respectable young gentleman at Bristol, radically cured
of a consumption, by the judicious use of my three great medicines,
and the gentle application of the medicated electrical fire. — The
young gentleman is since married, and has got a fine boy.
N. B. Several of his family had died of consumptions.
N° 30. Mrs. Cox of St. Phillip's Plain, Bristol, cured of an asthma
and consumption, when at the point of death, and given over by all
the faculty, by the regular and determined use of the above balsamic
medicines.
N° 31—2. Mrs. Dyer in Trinity-street, Mr. Harris, millener and
haberdasher in Clare-street, and Mr. Vining, grocer, on the Great
Bridge, Bristol, all cured of deafness.
N° 33. Mr. Orchard, baker and confectioner, in Horse-street,
Bath, cured of a stiortness of breath, and almost continual cough
and spitting, with which he had been afflicted near thirty years, by a
regular though short course of my wonderfully efficacious medicines.
Mr. Orchard can now walk six or eight miles od a stretch, without
pain, difficulty, or oppression.
N° 34. A gentleman near Bath, cured of an inveterate scorbutic
complaint, under which he had laboured from his infancy, and which
had degenerated into an universal leprosy, being covered all over, from
head to foot, with white scaly scurf, frightful cracks, and horrid offen
sive blotches.—The cure was completed in four months, by means of
my imperial pills, mynerv. æthereal balsam, and proper outward appli
cations, and now and then his body and limbs pervaded for a couple
of hours with a full balmy tide of the celestial vivifying fire.
N° 35. Mrs. Mary Kelly, of Park-house, near Bath, cured by my
•excellent medicines and electricity, of a dead palsy, complicated with
a dropsy, and alarming consumptive complaints, under which she
had long laboured, notwithstanding the endeavours of the most ce
lebrated of the faculty at Bath.
N° 36. Mr. Thomas Nourse, of Shire Hampton, cured of a rheu
matic gout, which had brought on a total palsy, and deprived him of
the use, and of all motion of his limbs.—Mr. Nourse was cured by my
three
"t 7 1
three great medicines and electrical operations, in a few weeks, fi>
that he could walk well without his crutches, and after he had been
turned out incurable, and much worse, from the Bath Hospital, after
having been a patient in it for more than eight months.:.
N° 37. Mrs. Mary Bailey, opposite Walcot Church, Bath, com
pletely and lastingly cured of a confirmed black jaundice; dropsy, and
asthma, of several years continuance, when at the point of death, after
having been dismissed from St. George's Hospital in London, after being
in three months, and from the Bath Hospital, in which me wasa patient
two months. Her liver was schirrous, hard as a stone, and swelled to
a monstrous degree ; and she was covered all over with purple and
black blotches.
N° 38. The lady of a captnin in the army, cured by my æther, bal
sam, after having been confined ro bed ten weeks, and brought to the
point of death after a miscarriage in the sixth month.
N° 39. A noble countess, well advanced in years, cured of a rhea-
matic gout, of two years standing, which had swelled to a monstrous size,
and deprived her ladyship of the use of her hands, arms, and one knee.
—This extraordinary cure was performed in five weeks, with the im
perial pills and balsam alone, without electricity.
N° 40. A Gloucestershire gentleman, a staunch fox-hunter, radically
cured ofa confirmed dropsy and black jaundice, occasioned bya longcon-
finement, after having had his collar-bone and several of his ribs bro
ken by a fall from his horse in hunting. This astonishing and unex
pected cure was performed chiefly by ray imperial pills and electrical
æther.
N° 4 1 . A lieutenant in the royal navy, cured of a most dreadfulvene
real and scorbutic complaint, under which he had laboured four years;
after having been several times salivated. The gentleman was covered
all over with blotches, had a fistula in ano, violent straining, pain and
obstruction in making water, and was so weak and emaciated as not to
be able to walk or stand without crutches. He was perfectly cured in
ten weeks by my imperial pills and nervous æthereal balsam, with a
strong decoction of sarsaparilla, gum arabic, and the Peruvian bark ;
bathing the parts with the fame, and drinking nothing but the above,
with new milk beat up with the yolks of new laid eggs for break
fast and supper.
N°42—3. Two other gentlemen in the king's service, recommended
by the lame officer, were cured, the one of a monstrous swelled testicle,
the size of a pint pot, and of eight months continuance ; the other of
'stoppages in the urethra, from ulcers and strictures of six years dura
tion, occasioned by ill-cured venereal complaints and free living. He
could make water but in a very small stream, with frequent desire, and
sometimes almost total obstructions.—But were all the cures I have
performed in the above and similar cafes, and of gleets and weaknesses
in both sexes, to be printed, they would occupy many large volumes ;
and the numbers whom I have had the pleasure of rescuing from
wretchedness
I « 3
wretchedness, from a state worse than death, brought on by impru-
dence, excesses, or secret venery in early youth, are likewise very
great.
Great numbers in the course of the last year have been cured of
putrid ulcerated sore throats, hoarsenesses, and loss of voice.
N°44. The daughter of a great peisonage in G— Square, aged twelve
years, cured of a dreadful scrophulous disorder, of six years standing,
after having baffled every thing that could be done for her in Europe.
—Her ladyship's throat, neck, arms, and feet were swelled and dis
eased to a shocking degree, maoy pieces of bones had come away, and
stie was pale, weak, and emaciated to a great degree. This most im
portant and unexpected cure was radically performed in four or five
months, by my three great medicines, electricity, &c.
The multitude of seemingly .miraculous cures which I have per
formed in scrophulous swellings, stiffnesses, fores, and lameness, in
London, as well as in every place where I have practised, is well
known to many persons and personages of rank and character in Lon
don, Edinburgh, and Bath.
N°45—6. Two young gentlemen, and an amiable young lady, cured
radicallyof a disorder which was brought on in the lady's cale by drink
ing cold water while hot, after dancing. They were covered all over
from head to foot with red blotches, or white scaly powdery scurf,
although in all other respects they seemed perfectly well. They were
all effectually cured in a few months by my imperial pills, æthereal
balsam, and proper outward applications.
The numbers which have been cured of the most confirmed asth
mas, coughs, consumptions, and of those excruciating diseases, the
stone and gravel, are equally astonishing and unprecedented.
N° 47. Mr. William Everson from Gateshead, Newcastle, cured of
a dead palsy, which had deprived him of the use of both his arms,
&c. and
N° 48. Mr. Monro, a schoolmaster in the same place,, cured by my
great medicines of a consumption, hoarseness, cough, hectic fevers, &c.
after having been under the cure of the priucipal physicians in Edin
burgh for several months.
N° 49. Mrs. Mary Hay, of Newbiggin, near Morpeth, of a disease in
her bladder, under which she had laboured five years, suffering day and
night the most excruciating tortures in making water every minute or
two. I had the pleasure, the high honour of curing Mrs. Hay in a
fortnight, after having been for months in London under the care of
Dr. Cooper, man-midwife, and the celebrated surgeon Pott, and after
having used in vain opiates, uva ursi, soap, and lixivial medicines,
mercury, hemlock, and a three months course of Adams's solvent.
N° 50. The Rev. Mr. Murray of Newcastle (author of the Sermons
to Asses, &c. and of the History of the present American war) cured of the
stone by my great medicines, which that learned and ingenious gentle
man fays in his polite and obliging letter to me, did him moie good
in one week than Adams's solvent, &c. hid done in half a year.
N'51.
[ 9 :
N° 5* • The son ofaworthy and most respectable farmer, in the north
of England, afflicted for fix or seven years with a terrible eruption all
over him, was in the following condition when first brought to me ;
his skin, from the crown of his head to the soles of his feet, had the
appearance of raw fiesh, or was covered over with a white powdery
icurf ; the rawness and soreness was so very great in some places,
particularly his neck and shoulders, that he couid not move his
head without turning his whole body, and that with great pain.
The glands in his groins and arm pits were swelled to a great de
gree. The regular faculty were of no service to him. The lea, Har-
rowgate, upwards of sixty bottles of Mr. Norton's Maredant's drops ;
a long course too of Mr. Spilsbury's, and in short every outward and
inward application and medicine, foreign and domestic, that could be
thought of, produced not the smallest nor the most tranlient good effects.
In this pitiable, and indeed hopeless condition, did he apply to me.
—Many days did not elapse before his friends observed the most flat
tering alteration for the better in every respect, by the determined use
of my great medicines, in less than a month, his worthy and respecta
ble father, and several who were acquainted with him, came to see
him ; they scarcely knew him again ; he had now recovered his fiesti, '
and a fresh healthy colour and good spirits, and could bear all his
cloaths fast abont him. The young gentleman was with me only
about six weeks ; he went home supremely happy, aud was, when I
last saw him, after having been the half of his life in the above con
dition) intirely clear, whole, and well in every respett, except a little
rawness on one leg, and behind his ears, which is now, I hope, per
fectly well, by having continued a little while longer the medicines and
outward applications.
N° 52. J. L. Esq; a worthy gentleman of distinction, perfectly cured
of a most painful, inconvenient, and dangerous complaint in the urinary
organs, under which he had laboured for eleven years, proceeding
from ill-cured, or rather neglected, venereal disorders, in a long and
impetuous pursuit of pleasure. This gentleman had tried, at different
times, the principal physicians and surgeons in England, Scotland,
France, and Italy ; bougees too, and every thing that could be thought
of, without any considerable or lasting benefit. He was completely
cured in two months by the peculiar methods I employ in such truly
pitiable cases.
Extraordinary and well authenticated Cures performed at
the Temple of Health in London, in the course of
the la/l Tear, 1 780.
N° 53. Miss Beat, at Mr. Schroeder's warehouse (robe and habit
maker to her Majesty) in Tavislock-street, Covent Garden, was radi
cally cured by my three great medicines, &c. of a terrible disorder
which- had broke out and spread over both sides of her face and neck,
B which
[ io ]
which with her eyes and ears it had swelled to a monstrous degree. The
humour was so sharp and so excessively profuse, that day and night, it
, would wet and run through twenty folds of cloth or handkerchiefs in one
quarter of an hour ; but notwithstanding that incredible discharge,
the swellings did not abate, but the disease soon degenerated into a
• mimbness and mortification ; blind of both eyes, for two days unable;
to swallow or smell, and dead on one fide of her body ; her face,
neck, eyes, and ears being entirely covered over with a thick cold
black crust or scab, like a complete mask, with the mortification far
advanced in her throat inwardly.—Miss Beat was soon restored to
perfect health, and cleared of every appearance of the disorder, by
the judicious and incredibly -plentiful use of the three great medicines,
after having been thus as it were in the very jaws of death. The
young lady herself, and the worthy family with whom she lives, very
readily declare to every respectful enquirer the truth of the above
seemingly miraculous cure.
N° 54. Mrs. Vere, a worthy and most respectable lady, at her house,
N° 52, Greek street, Soho, effectually cured of a most dreadful nervous,
bilious, and paralytic disorder, of twelve years standing, by electricity,
and my three great medicines, after having consulted and tried in vain
almost every physician of note, and every powerful medicine. The
disorder was attended with a total loss of appetite, an almost constant
vomiting, after eating, and a paralytic numbnefs of both hands. It
is at the earnest desire of Mrs. Vere, that this important cure is
made public.
N° 55. Miss E.Watridge, sister to Mr. Watridge, haberdasher, in
•King-street, Covent-garden, was perfectly cured of a severe rheumatism,
which had confined her to bed, and afflicted her for several months.
A few electrical operations, and a short course of my great medicines,
perfectly cured this amiable young lady of these severe and most
painful complaints.
N° 56. Mrs. York, at the Bunch of Grapes, in Hemming's Row, St.
Martin's Lane, was seized last autumn with a violent stitch in her side ;
at first, bleeding three times a day, two blisters on her back, and two
on her side, moved the pain into her breast and stomach, producing a ,
violent cough and shortness of breath ; at length the disorder seized
her bowels, with the most cruel racking and excruciating pains, never
easy one moment day nor night. During the whole of the fortnight
before Mrs. York came to the Temple of Health, she had not in all
• that time two hours sleep ; her legs swelled through weakness, and
the pain was a sort of violent burning, as if all on flames.—Mrs. York
was most perfectly cured by a three weeks course of my three great
medicines, and a few electrical operations.
N° 57. A worthy and very respectable lady, who had been married
five years, without children, owing to weaknesses, and profuse evacua
tions at certain periods, was so perfectly strengthened and invigorated in
every respect, by my uervous æthereal balsam, the divine or prolific
balsam,
balsam, and gentle electrical operations, that the lady is now in perfect
health and spirits, advancing in a happy pregnancy.
N° 58. Captain Hoar, in Craven-buildings, Drury-lane, encouraged by
having been cured by me, a few years ago, of a most terrible inflamma
tion of both eyes, with white specks or skins over the sight, so as to
have been almost entirely blind,—having been afflicted for several
months last winter with a severe rheumatic gout, which swelled his
hands, wrists, arms, and even one fide of his jaw bone, to a great de
gree, with dreadful pain when in bed, or upon catching cold, was
perfectly cured of all his complaints by a judicious course of my
three great medicines, and electrifying now and then for a few weeks
with my apparatus, which exceeds, by many thousand degrees, any
that ever was in the world for strength, safety, ease, elegance, and
usefulness.
N° 59. An eminent physician in Westminster, having been afflicted
for many weeks with a vertigo, or noise, giddiness, pain, and fullness of
the vessels, and weakness of the nerves of his head, attended with a
heavy drowsiness, yet an inability to sleep, was perfectly cured, after
trying every thing else in vain, by my nervous æther, a few of my
imperial pills, and a short mild course of electricity by my irresistibly
powerful machines.
N° 60. A gentleman was perfectly cured by my medicines alone, after
having laboured for several months under a most dreadful nervous com
plaint, which had several times attacked him with an alarming palsy,
and deprived him at times of almost all the faculties of both body and
mind. He has now firm nerves, and a serene happy contented
mind.
N° 61. Captain R. B. at the Spring Garden Coffee-house, Charing-
cross, cured of a fever and ague, of thirteen months continuance ; his
disorder baffled the skill of all the physicians and surgeons with the
royal army at New York, for nine months ; on his return to England
he could scarce walk, but in two weeks he was perfectly cured by my
electrical æther, imperial pills, and electricity.
N° 62. A most worthy lady of fashion and fortune in Hanover-square,
in repeated and most violent inflammations of her liver and bowels, was
bled about twenty times in one month, by which her whole frame
was so exhausted and broken down as not to be able for many weeks
ro walk across her room ; and notwithstanding every possible assistance
from the first physicians, &c. the lady found herself growing daily of
a deeper yellow with the jaundice, an increase of the perpetual fever,
and of all the dropsical symptoms, and the whole aggravated by so
wretched a nervous complaint, that she could not rest one hour in a
whole night. For many weeks the violent spasms or catchings, and
drawings up of her legs, got to such a pitch of violence as to hinder
her from sleeping alrogether. In this low, distressed, and hopeless
state flie applied to me (by the recommendation of a worthy gentle
man from the East Indies, whom 1 had had the happiness of curing
pf an asthmatic complaint) and she received a most perfect cure of all
B 2 her
c i2 r
her complicated maladies, by means of a regular fix weeks course of
roy three great medicines, assisted by electricity, after an almost fatal
indisposition of near two years standing.
N. B. It is now near a year since this most intelligent and most
amiable lady was cured, and she has remained perfectly well ever since.
In a letter which I had the honour of receiving from her with the
above account of her cafe, she had the goodness to fay, that although
she did not chuse to have her name exposed to the whole world, yet
stfe gave me full liberty to refer any person to her who wished to have
farther particulars, or any other confirmation of this most important,
and (to all her friends) seemingly miraculous cure.
N° 63. A young woman, among the number of those who partake of
the above lady's charitable benevolences, who had for several years la
boured under a variety of complaints, fores, and swellings, from
never once having been visited by the necessary monthly evacuations,
was at this lady's expence cured by a short course of my imperial
pills and electrical æther, assisted by electricity. What had been so
long wished for appeared the second or third day after she began the
use of my most valuable medicines.
N°64- A most amiable lady of fashion, a friend of the lady whose case
is last related, was afflicted for a considerable time with severe nervous
and lethargic complaints, insomuch that ihe frequently burst om into
fits of crying without any cause whatever, and would at times drop
asleep even when at dinner with much company. She had so violent
a palpitation, that her heart beat like a little hammer against her
breast, producing likewise universal tremors ; and these dreadful
complaints continued to encrease notwithstanding the assistance of
physicians, and the more friendly powers of travelling, sea air, and
sea bathing. This worthy lady was likewise completely cured of all
her complaints, by a short course of my nervous æthereal balsam and
electrical æther, assisted by electricity, and thereby restored to perfect
health and firmness of body und of mind, which she has continued to
enjoy for many months without interruption.
N° 65. Miss Papps, N° 74 , Basinghall-street, near Guildhall, aged 21,
is now completely cured of a dead palsy, which had totally deprived her
of the use of her limbs for near two years. Miss Papps's limbs, from
her middle downwards, were cold, dead, and insensible like death
itself; and she was repeatedly every day afflicted with spasms, draw
ings or convulsions so odd and severe, that they would draw her down
from the scat of the coach or chair, upon the floor in a moment, and
were so violent that three or four people could not prevent them, or
keep her on her seat. This most amiable young lady had had the
advice of the best physicians, and was at Bath for six months without
an;' fort of relief; but by a regular course of my three great medi
cines and gentle-genial electrical operations, ssie was completely cured
in four or five months; she hung up her crutches as honourable tro-?
pbies in the T^snple of Health, and has for several months walked as
•Well, and enjoys as good health and spirits as any person in Great*
Britain. The uuth of th^s very great and wonderful cure is per
fectly
C *3 I
fectly well known to several hundreds of the friends and acquaint
ances of this respectable family, who will have the goodness to cer
tify any respectful enquirer at Mr. Papps's house, N° 74, Basinghall-
street.
N° 66. The truth of the following most extraordinary cure may be
known by calling at N-> 40, Newman-street, Oxford-street. Mrs. Kirk-
man was seized with a severe rheumatic fever, which suddenly affected
her right knee with exquisite pain, which soon spread to the other knee,
both feet, hands, and arms, insomuch that she could neither move nor
turn, nor bear to touch any thing, and was deprived intirely of the
use of all her limbs. This amiable lady was tormented night and
day with the most excruciating pain, convulsive spasms, restlessness,
and a constant violent heart-burn ; her nails became quite black with
the convulsions, nor could she find any relief from opium, laudanum,
blisters, or any thing that the faculty could do for her. Mrs. Kirk-
man, however, by the earnest advice of a gentleman whom I had
cured of a similar complaint, was carried to the Temple of Health as
helpless as a new-born child ; but in little more than a week she was
freed from all pain, weakness and swelling, and by continuing my
three great medicines, and the genial copious streams of the celestial
fire a week or two longer, she was strengthened, braced up, and invi
gorated in every respect, so as to walk as nimbly as ever, and has ever
since continued perfectly well.
N° 67. A very amiable and beautiful young lady offashion, aged ig,
was cured by my æthereal balsam, electrical æther, and pectoral herbs,
of a confirmed consumption, constant pain and soreness in her throat
and ears, and loss of voice, profuse sweats, constant coughing, spit
ing of phlegm and matter, and swelling of her legs, after she had
betn given over by the faculty, and returned to town without any
benefit from hei native air in the country. This most desperate of
all diseases was occasioned by the measles, and the miraculous cure
was completely performed anJ established in less than two months.
N°68. A respectable tradesman too, who from peculiar connections
does not wish for his name to be mentioned, was snatched from the grave
when at the point of death in the same disorder, a confirmed con
sumption, with ulcerated lungs. He used the æther, the balsam, the
pectoral herbs, &c. daily for three or four months, and then he was
built up in perfect health, flesh, and firmness.
N°6o. Mr. Beck.jun. brazier, &c. opposite Bell Dock.Wapping, about
the middle of last June was seized with a severe pain in his stomach
and side, insomuch that he could hardly breathe, sloop, sleep, or rest
night or day. When he coughed, walked, drew .his breath, or went
in a coach, he had sharp and severe pains in his breast. Mr. Beck la
boured under an almost continual fever, thirst, white rough tongue,
cramps and spasms, his spirits and his flesh wasted every day, the de
cline was so rapid, and receiving no benefit from medicines, country
air, &c. that he despaired of recovery, and even of ever seeing his
friends agaia.—Mr. Beck, his father, however, wrote for him to
corn^
r 14- r
come to town ; trie young gentleman came, and in a few weeks he
had the good fortune to be perfectly cured of this confirmed con
sumption, to the great joy of that worthy and respectable family,
and of all his friends, who beheld with astonishment so important
and so unexpected a cure, which was accomplished, under God ! by
my balsam, æther, electricity, and pectoral herbs ; and Mr. Beck has
remained strong and perfectly well ever since.
N° 70. The son of Mr. George Thorburn, N° 23, Cecil-court, St.
Martin's-lane, aged nine years, from his infancy (his mother being in a
decline when breeding) was seized in the autumn of every year with
a severe cough, spitting, and dropsical fulness and stoney hardness of
bis belly and stomach, which were swelled up to his throat, nor could
he rest or breathe for spasms and convulsions ; but after the measles,
which he had three years ago, he was given up for dead. When his
worthy parents applied to me, the child was pale, swelled, spit bloody
humour in incredible quantities ; could not raise himself up without
great pain and soreness ; he had a great and constant thirst, no appe
tite ; his breath was difficult and offensive, and so short, that after
drinking he could not recover his breath, but seemed ready to expire,
and could not lay down in bed for the cough, &c—--Receiving little or
no benefit from all which the faculty could do for him in Scotland and
England, his parents quite despaired of his life ; but by my three
great medicines, electricity, balsamic herbs, &c. the child was per
fectly cured in a few months, and remains now strong, active, and
well in every respect, although this confirmed asthma and consump
tion was complicated with a dropsical, and severe nervous disorder.
N° 71 —8. Seven young ladies of very respectable families and genteel
fortune, and near a hundred women married and single of different ages
and conditions in life, have been cured by the proper use of my three
great medicines, assisted by electricity, &c. in the course of the last
year, of obstinate obstructions in the monthly periods, and of the
long train of complaints which are consequent thereupon : and a still
greater number have been perfectly cured of the whites, and other
weaknesses of the organs of generation, by my nervous æthereal bal
sam, in ordinary, or by my prolific balsam, &e. in extraordinary cases
of weakness, barrenness, &c.
It is now so universally known, that it is almost unnecessary to
mention the great number of gentlemen, especially of those who have
suffered from imprudence, and from excesses with women and wine,
or from hot climates, who have been restored to perfect and perma
nent vigour, and prolific youthful virility, from the most feeble and
debilitated states, by those two great and supremely invigorating
medicines.
N° 79. A worthy man, a book-keeper at a great inn near Lincoln's Inn
Fields, was perfectly and speedily cured by my electrical æther, pills,
and electrifying, when scarce able to walk, with weakness, stiffness,
and swelling of his knees from a rheumatic gout.
NT 80.
N°8o. Mr. William Williamson, N° I, Little Essex-street, Temple,
by a severe cold eight years ago, lost the use of his limbs, ofwhich, how
ever, he recovered ; but about three years ago he was seized with a
pain in his left side so excruciating, that he was deprived of the use
of that side. He could not rest night nor day; but racked, he
screamed out like a woman in labour, that he might have been heard,
he thinks, a mile off. His sufferings brought tears frora almost every
one who beheld him. The pain generally came on about five at
night, and lasted till about five in the morning. But the least motion
would at any time bring it on ; and nothing but squeezing or pressing
hard upon it would deaden the fain. Mr. Williamson was under the
care of Doctors Lettsome, Salkeld, and George Fordyce a whole year,
without any material benefit, and was electrified by Mr. Partington
(late of Russel-street, Bloomfbury, but now of Cavendish-square) regu
larly for six months. Although Mr. Partington did all in his power for
him for so long a time, he became worse and worse, and before he applied
tome, he had been carried out and into bed for seven weeks. But the
second night after he was electrified by my medico-electrical apparatus
(which is infinitely more valuable and efficacious than any other in the
world) and took of my three great and most precious medicines, he
was most sensibly relieved ; and by continuing them and the electri
city a few weeks, he had the happiness to be perfectly cured, to the
joy and astonishment of all his friends, &c.
N° 8 1—3. Three respectable ladies, recommended by each other,
were completely cured of a redness, fiery itching, and swellings of
their legs of considerable standing, by being electrified a few times,
a short course of my balsam and imperial pills, and a cooling strengthen
ing outward application.
N° 84. Mr. Alexander Bouk, at the Turk's Head, Castle-street, Seven
Dials, cured of a severe nervous disorder, attended with great pain
and weakness of his back and limbs, and a considerable weakness
and dimness of sight, &c.
N° 85. George Fowler, servant toJohn Harvey, Esq; of Ickwellbury,
Bedfordshire, was completely cured of a dreadful train of nervous
complaints, which had reduced him to the lowest degree of weakness
and misery, of body and of mind. This cure was performed by my
nervous æthereal balsam alone, assisted by electricity and the cold bath.
N° 86. Mr. Clarke, a most respectable grocer and tea-dealer at his
warehouse in St. James's-streer near the King's Palace, was perfectly
cured of a deafness or hardness of hearing, attended with a stupe
fying noise and hissing, resembling a distant cascade. Mr. Clarke had
been afflicted with the deafness and noise about fifteen months.
N° 87. A worthy lady of fashion in Cleaveland-row, St. James's, was
likewise perfectly cured of a most alarming deafness of both ears.
N° 88. Mr. Potter, a mosl respectable and substantial mast-maker,
in Narrow-street, below Ratdiff-cross, having been afflicted with a very
considerable degree of deafness in both his cars for about eighteen years,
but for the last nine years very bad, was completely and lastingly cured
in
r us ]
in about a fortnight, by my irresistibly powerful magnerico;electrical
and æthereal operations and applications. This worthy gentleman
now hears as well as any man in England.
N° Ktj. A Captain Harman, recommended by Mr. Potter, was
also perfectly cured by me of a very great degree of deafness and noise
in his ears, under which he had laboured for many years.
N° 90. Mr. Henry Tosch, at the Bunch of Grapes, Hemming's-row,
St. Martin's-lane, quite deaf in both ears.for more than two years, with
a discharge of matter, and a violent and constant noise like the rushing
of water under London-Bridge, perfectly cured by three or four
. magnetico-electrical æthereal operations.
N° 91. Mr. Peter Maughee, N° 1 26, Wardour-street, two doors from
Oxford-street, most perfectly cured of a severe deafness of both ears,
of several months continuing, occasioned by a cold, and attended by
a singing or buzzing noise, and resisting the skill of two Doctors,
and the power of all sorts of remedies and applications. The deaf
ness had encreascd so exceedingly the last month, that Mr. Maughee
had despaired of ever being cured.
N° 92. Mrs. Ann Pillock, at Mrs Hayman's, N° 42, Carey-street,
Lincoln's Inn Fields, from a severe cold, was afflicted with deafness and
constant noise in her head, for upwards of three years. Mrs. Pillock
had tried many kinds of oils, &c. as well as electricity, but re
ceived no great benefit from any thing, till she had the happiness to
be electrified and fumigated with my balmy aromatic æther, and by
the most powerful as well as magnificent apparatus that ever was con
structed in the world, which soon radically cured her.
N° 93. Mrs. Brown, Bridge-row, Chelsea, coming over Westminster
Bridge about eight months ago on a cold blighting night, which
violently affected many other people, was seized with a pain in her
head, sickness, violent rash, burning, and restlessness, with her head
and eyes swelled up ; her hearing too was affected in the greatest and
most alarming degree, so that she could not hear any thing at times,
and had a constant noise like the running of water ; she was very
nervous, weak, low-spirited, and her appetite intireiy gone; but
Mrs. Brown was soon restored to perfectly good fight and hearing,
and freed from every complaint by electricity, and a short course of
my precious nervous æthereal balsam.
N° 94. Mrs. Tuckfield, N° 4, Warwick-lane, near St. Paul's, by
trouble and nervous weakness, was afflicted with total deafness for two
years, growing worse and worse, with noise and beating in her head.
She became quite weary of life, and would sit sometimes for three
days without speaking ; but even this desperate and complicated
nervous cafe and deafness, was speedily and perfectly cured by my ex
cellent medicines, and this worthy gentlewoman continues very well.
N° 95—6. A coachman, and a coach-harnessmaker were both com
pletely cured of a very melancholy degree of deafness under which
they had laboured for several years. The acknowledgment of these
great
. t 17 1
great cures, and of their names and places of abode which they gave
in for publication, were accidentally lost.
N°97- Mr. Cornelius Batstoneof Hampstead, aged 68 years, had
been afflicted for sixteen years with a most painful windy rheumatic
disorder, proceeding from a ladder falling on his loins, which bruised
him very much; he lay chiefly on his face in bed with his hands
pressing on his loins, for he could not raise himself up but slowly,
and with racking, distracting pain, as if he had been pierced with
swords. Although Mr. Batstone had applied to mmy physicians,
&c. in vain, yet he met with a perfect cure in a few weeks at the
Temple of Health, by electricity and my balmy æthereal medicines.
Thad intended to insert a much greater number of cures in deafness,
and in various kinds of blindness, weak and sore eyes ; but I find
that so far from a small pamphlet being sufficient, a large volume
would not contain them.
N°o8. Mr. Isaac Goodfalls at N8 n, Hungerford-market, Strand,
was afflicted with a violent rheumatism in his loins for about twenty
years. His pain was such as to allow him but little rest night or
day ; and his weakness so great, that he crawled about helpless, and
almost despairing of a cure, as he had tried many hundred things
without effect. By my powerful æthereal and electrical medicines,
however, assisted with electricity and my strengthening balsamic
herbs for tea, Mr. Goodfalls was soon perfectly cured in every
respect.
N° 99. Mr. James Walker at Wathnm-green, bydrinking cold water
when very hot, was seized with a stiffness all over, as if covered or
bound about with strong scales ; a general eruption came out; but
- as that went off became affected with pain, noise, heaviness, and
confusion; he had no pleasure in life: his sight and hearing were '
considerably affected, and he looked as it were through a thick
mist. Mr. Walker had the good fortune (like almost every one who
applies at the Temple of Health, or uses the genial medicines there
prepared) to meet with a perfect and lasting cure.
N° 100. Mrs. Careless of Hungerford-market was seized abcut two
years ago with a violent pain and swelling in almost every part of her body
and limbs; fits then came on, which would last six, eight, or twelve
» hours, and were so strong as to require four or fix men to hold her
in bed. After these fits she had most excruciating headachs. In one
of those fits, about a week before she was brought to me, flic
seemed to expire, and was laid out as dead. Frequent bleeding in
the feet, opiates, and all sorts of nervous medicines seemed to do
her no good ; but by the medicines and operations at the Temple of
Health, Mrs. Careless was to all appearance cured, and made to walk
stoutly without any help whatever.
N° 10 1. Mr. Pike, painter, at Mr. Williams's, box-maker, in White
Hart-yard, Drury-lane, was long afflicted with a rheumatic gout, and
both hands and feet so swelled and feeble, that he could neither walk,
dress, nor undress, was as helpless as a child, nor could he sleep
C night
£ i8 ]
night or day with the excruciating pain. He was quite cured by my
medicines and electricity, when he applied to me in July last; but
by a severe cold last Christmas the disorder came on agaiii, but was
removed, under Cod, by the fame means.
N° 102. Mr. Thomas Fox, coach-master, Crooked Billet-yard, Shore-
ditch, KingQand-road, fornineyears, at times, was afflicted with a rheu
matic, gouty complaint, which swelled his legs, hams, wrists, arms,
and shoulders ; he was all over pain, soreness, and weakness. When
he rose up, or moved, or was touched, he would sweat and hollo out
at times like a woman in labour. By a proper course of my me
dicines, however, and seven electrical operations, this worthy, honest
man was completely cured, and has remained well ever since last
summer.
N° 103. Mr. Fox's brother-in-law was likewise cured by my ex.-
cellent medicines of a low, nervous disorder, with violent pain and
soreness in his head, breast, and stomach, after various means had
been tried in vain.
N° 104. Serjeant Henry Daviesof the 59th regiment, brought almost
to death, and discharged from the King's service as incurable, of a
compiica'ion of disorders brought on by an every day ague, under
which he had laboured for many months. He was swelled all over, had
a cough and asthma, and was jaundiced to a great degree. In this
melancholy and desperate condition, given over by all the army _
surgeons and physicians, and finding no fort of relief from any
thing in town or country, he applied to the Temple of Health ;
where, by a regular course of my most valuable medicines and elec
tricity, he was perfectly cured of all his' complaints to the astonish—
ment of every body, especially of his former doctors ; and he con
tinues strong, hearty, and happy in every respect whatever; and this
brave serjeant, who weathered the battle of Bunker's hill, and several
others, fays, that he now feels himself a match for at least ten
Frenchmen.
By Captain B.'s and Mr. Davis's recommendation many? military
men have been lately cured of agues, and other obstinate diseases,
which had baffled all other human means.
N° 105- Mrs. Catharine Robertson, at Mr. Howard's, Marigold-
court, opposite the Savoy, Strand, a noble lord's butler, and a great
number of persons too tedious to insert, have lately been cured of
the most obstinate agues, and dropsical asthmatic complaints.
N° 106. Mrs. Robinson's daughter, Seven Dials, aged about 13,
and Mr. King's son at Brentford, aged about 9 years, were both
cured of fits with which they had been long afflicted. Electricity
was used three times a week, for a full hour each time, to assist and
co-operate with my balmy-comforting medicines.
In this place, on the books, occur memorandums of a great variety
of the most obstinately confirmed and complicated venereal cafes in-
tirely eradicated, as well as of the cure of many young people who
had suffered and been reduced to the lowest degree of wretchedness
and
C 19 ]
and imbecility of body and of mind, especially suffering in the sight,
hearing, memory, and nerves by imprudence and diabolical practices
and indulgencies; but common decency, as well as delicacy, forbids
the publication of any of them.
N° 107. Miss P. H. a sweetly beautiful and most amiable young lady
from the country, healthy and blooming as the very Goddess of Health !
was soon after her arrival in London last July seized with a putrid,
nervous fever of the most deadly kind. From the first hour this
angelic Being was struck with every symptom of death ; and she was
herself deeply and decidedly impressed with the certainty of the fatal
issue of this disease: so was her amiable sister, and all her anxious
friends. To describe the progress and the horribleness of this tedious
disease would be to write a volume. It shall suffice to mention a few
•of the moll important facts. Spasmodic catchings and twitchings of
almost every muscle and nerve of her body, especially of her face,
her sight, hearing, memory, and indeed all the faculties of her
body and mind, with every mark of high putrefaction, came on
very early in the disease. Nothing that I could do, did her any good ;
(he never once said in the course of three weeks that she was even
relieved by any one medicine or application that was employed.
Baths of Wine and the most cordial aromatics were used; a score
perhaps of large and small blisters were applied ; aromatic clysters
of the Peruvian bark were administered, and that excellent medicine
in pounds daily, with the addition of castor, saffron, cinnamon, rose
leaves, musk, salt of amber, and the purest æther, were used out
wardly and inwardly in incredible quantities, without measure, and
regardless of expence, but all without producing one symptom
whereby I could flatter myself with the hopes of her recovery. The
above medicine?, however, were continued inwardly—by way of
clyster—and were almost constantly applied to her head, stomach,
and feet; music was selected and performed, with proper intervals,
day and night; she was taken out, even, and most especially when at
the worst, in an open post-chaise or chariot ; but the smell of the
grave prevailed, and accompanied us every where. Every token of
death continued to haunt us. I was with her continually almost
night and day; for I was determined {Codforgive me) that she should
not die. My whole soul was in arms, and every bodily faculty was
strained to preserve her. So intensely anxious was I for the preserva
tion of this innocent—this charming young creature! that I believe
my foul was transfused as it were into her body, and animating her,
enabled her to struggle with disease and death, till nature prevailed—
and health resumed its happy—its welcome empire I—Camphorated
vinegar—odoriferous wine, my electrical, ambrosial æther, and every
cordial—every vivifying essence which i could devise, were distilled
in the room, or poured forth in liberal and almost continual libations-
about the room, bed cloaths, and carriages. As the weather was
very hot, the windows were not closed for one minute day nor ni"ht.
—Between the sheet and the hair matrass on which she lay, dried
C 2 baum,
I 20 ]
baum, sage and rose leaves, lavender and rosemary flowers, mingled
with fine dried salt, were strewed, and renewed twice daily.
By the united power of these means—means altogether unknown
or unpractised by the regular faculty, was the life of this amiable
young person saved ; and the moment I found that the disease was
conquered, or rather that life and death were trembling on an equal
beam, in order to secure and expedite her perfect recovery I sup
plied her with a plentiful stock of my three great medicines, and
sent her with the same careful, intelligent servant who had attended
her fiom the beginning to Margate. The intention was merely by
(travelling in an open carriage to shift the air and the scene every
moment, and to do both most effectually bymaking her ride out sot-
many hours every day by the sea side, an element she had never before
in her life even seen. How great and necessary the transition was '
in a disease where every drop of blood, and every nervous fibre,
stamps with death, had been dissolved and relaxed into putrid gore
and lax ligaments ! —the salutary effects demonstrated : for'in a few
weeks her smell, her sight, her hearing, and all the senses and facul
ties of both body and mind, which depend on good florid blood,
and balmy, braced nerves, were recovered, and she was built up.
into high health the fame beautiful, amiable young lady which nature
in her kindest mood had formed—studded as it were with roses,
and streaked with celestial blue ! —the darling of her worthy parents,
—the beloved companion of her amiable sister, who watched over
her in that dreadful illness—the supreme joy of the worthy man
who has since married her—and an eternal, indisputable monument
of the transcendent worth of my three great medicines, and infinite
superiority of my peculiar modes of practice in difficult and very
dangerous cafe?. ' ,-v
N. B. As this was in reality perhaps the greatest and most extra
ordinary cure that ever was done in the world, I am very happy
that so many creditable people were eye-witnesses to the facts as
above sketched out; particularly my worthy friend Dr. Mercier,
physician in this city, who having had the goodness to visit Miss H.
in every stage of her illness, was himself an eye-witness to the cure,
&c. and who will attest the truth of it to any respectful inquirer
who may be pleased to call at his house, N° 21, Frith-street, Soho.
N° 108. Mr. Clarke, a worthy and most respectable tradesman at Mill-
bank, Wefiminfler, having been for 15 years a martyr to the gout, was
pleared several months ago to apply to me. His limbs, especially the
jofots of his toe, and feet, were exceedingly feeble, swelled and stiff, and
he walked very lamely indeed ; but by a regular and persevering course
of my three gre:t medicines, conforming strictly to my regimen, assisted
by the electr city of my most excellent apparatus, and bathing his feet
in what I ordered, Mr. Clarke found great benefit from the first day ;
insomuch that in a few weeks he actually walked from his own
house in the extreme suburbs of Westminster to Whitechapel, and
pack again, which is many miles, with strength and ease, which he
'•'••*,'*••• >• < :, .> " neither
C 21 3
neither could, nor had attempted to do for more than twelve years
before.—This judicious gentleman still continues a gentle course of
my great medicines, has had no return of the gout, finds the chalky
swellings, stiffness and weakness very trifling, and in good health and
spirits walks about his business with pleasure and active alertness. Se
veral persons with the gout, rheumatism, &c. recommended by Mr.
C. have likewise received the greatest benefit.
If people who have suffered from the gout, rheumatism, or scurvy,
or from a complication of these maladies, would take even a
short course of these excellent medicines once or twice a year,
they would suffer very little, or not at all, from these cruel and
too universal diseases.
N° ico. Mrs. S. amantua-maker, an industrious, ingenious, and very
respectable woman, was very warmly recommended to my best offices
by the Right Honourable Lady S. Mrs. S.'s cafe was the most pain
ful and the most obstinate that can be imagined. Her hand, thumb,
and fingers were swelled, stiff, and contracted to a great degree ;
and on the inside of her wrist there was a hard swelling the size of a very
large hen's egg. Mrs. S. being prevented from following her business
as usual, in working for most of the ladies of the first fashion in this
great metropolis who employed her, was the least of her misfortune ;
for the excruciating torture which this worthy woman endured both
night and day for many months, nay, I believe years, in that hand
and arm, is not to be expressed. From the long and continual
want of rest, her health was considerably impaired. No one of the
faculty to whom she had applied, the Bath waters nor any thing
that could be thought of proved effectual. But Mrs. S. had not
been three weeks under my care, using my electrical æther, electri
city, &c. till the swellings, contractions, ancj agonizing pain were
removed ; and this worthy industrious woman steeps perfectly well,
and free from all pain and contraction ; can open and firmly close her
hand, and follows her business as usual to the great joy of all who
know her, especially of the divinely benevolent, the truly Noble
Countess, who, from the number of great cures her Ladyship has
known me to perform, advised her to apply to me at the Temple of
Health, Adelphi.
N° no. A very respectable lady in Oxford-street, who from weak
tremulous nerves and a relaxed habit of body, had always miscarried
about the third month in so; r successive pregnancies, applied to me
in the last ; and being directed to a gentle course of my nervous
æthereal balsam, and an infusion of the Peruvian bark, red rose leaves,
and comfry root, with a milk diet, she was freed from all her nervous
complaints, went her full time, and was happily delivered of a very
fine plump boy about two months ago.
N° 1 1 1 . Mrs. Manly, a most amiable and respectable lady in Cheap-
iide, N° 119, was severely afflicted with the rheumatism in her head,
arms, and indeed at times all over her, for about three years. It is
not to be described what Mis. Manly fusil-red with this cruel and con
firmed disease; yet she was perfectly cured by eight or ten gentle
electrical
• ' ['« ]
electrical operations at the Temple of Health, and a short course of
my electrical a?ther and impeiial pills. Mrs. Manly was cured last
summer, and she has remained all the autumn, winter, and spring
perfectly well in every respect.
N° 112. The son of the above worthy lady, a beautiful boy of five
years of age, who had been afflicted with deafness in both ears for"
about twelve months, was likewise perfectly cured of the deafness ia
a few weeks, by the peculiar means I in such cases employ ; and the
child is now at boarding-school, healthy and well in every respect.
The truth of the above important cures will be certified to respectful
enquirers by Mr. aud Mrs. Manly themselves, at his silversmith and
jewellery shop, N" 119, almost opposite Bow Church, Cheapside.
Mr. Manly is the inventor and sole proprietor of the curious—so much
esteemed—goid-coloured metal.
N° 113. Mrs. Sarah Tomlinson, at Mr. Truston's, Little George-
street, Petty France, was seized about three years ago with pains in
her limbs, so violent as to deprive her of the ule of them. Soon
aiter that, pimples broke out all over her body like the small pox ;
she was admitted into St. George's Hospital, where she was salivated,
and remained there for eight weeks with little or no benefit. She
was however by the advice of friends, advised to go in again, which
she did, and continued for ten weeks more, but without relief. Mrs.
T. nevertheless, by my powerful medicines and electricity, was to all
appearance perfectly cured in two or three weeks.
N° 114. Mr. Wilson, shoemaker, near the Artillery Ground, was
afflicted for a long time with a severe rheumatic gout, which succeed
ed a nervous fever ; his legs, arms, and shoulders were so swelled,
inflamed, and\ve;;k, and so crippled and helpless was he, that he could
not even dress or undress himself, and was full of the most excruciat
ing pain. In this deplorable condition he applied to me, and I had
the pleasure of making a complete and lasting cure of Mr. Wilson in
about a fortnight, so that for many months he has been entirely free
from pain, swelling, and weakness, following his business, as usual,
with pleasure and alacrity.
N° 115. Mrs. Monkwire, H° 7, Burleigh-street, Exeter 'Change,
was afflicted for seven or eight months with a fever and ague, which
had nigh put an end to her existe;*:. At first it recurred every third
day, but the latter months every day. When she applied to me, she
was all over like a person dying of the darkest yellow jaundice ; her
feet, legs, and body swelled prodigiously, with a total loss of appe
tite, and a violent pain at her stomach and about the region of- the
liver, with every hectic and consumptive symptom. Mrs. Monkwire
had not been three weeks however under my care, till she was not
only perfectly cured of the ague and fever, but also of the pains,
swellings, indigestion, and of every other complaint, so that now she
is fair, blooming, and a healthy and hsppy mother. This great cure
was performed by electricity, and the diligent use of my three great
medicines, assisted with a couple of emetics.
N° 1 16.
C 23 ]
N' 116. This is to certify all whom it may concern, That 1, Wil
liam Hefford, being in perfect health and of sound mind, do hereby
make voluntarily, and for the public good, the following declaration :
—That I have been afflicted for upwards of forty years with mon
strously swelled and ulcerated legs, and that I was salivated for the
same by Cesar Hawkins, Esq; about the year 1737, after which I
found myself seemingly well ; but in a little time I was in as bad a
condition as before I was salivated, and continued so till the year
1740, when I was admitted into St, George's Hospital, Hyde Park
Corner, and where I went through another gentle salivation and con
tinued seven weeks, when I was discharged seemingly well. But, alas !
in about three months after I relapsed into my former condition, and
have been bad ever since. About two years ago I was so bad, that I
could not lie in bed, but have been obliged to sit up three or four
nights together in a chair, with my legs on another chair, and I was;
sorely afflicted all last winter ; and about the beginning of September
last I was visited with a complicatidn of disorders ; my legs swelled to
an enormous size, nearly as big as anchovy banels; my whole
body was likewise prodigiously swelled ; I was likewise troubled with
a difficulty of respiration, so that I could not lie down in bed with
out danger of suffocation ; I was likewise afflicted with the rheuma-
tism, so that I could not without great difficulty cither dress or un
dress myself. Under all these melancholy circumstances, on the loth
of September last my daughter, when file saw what a deplorable
condition I was in, said, for God's fake, father, do have other ad
vice ; I pray you now go to Dr. Graham, and hear what he fays.
Accordingly on the nth of September I went to Dr. Graham, and
asked him whether he thought he could be of any service to me under
my present melancholy condition. After looking very stedfastly at
me, he told me he believed he could, and ordered a gentle operation
of electricity, telling me at the same time if I found any benefit to
come again, recommending too a steady course of his wonderful me
dicines, to be taken according to his directions.—By these means I
found great and immediate relief; so that by the powerful influence
of his most precious medicines, and being electrified about twenty
times, all the above complaints are happily and completely removed.
And I hereby declare, that I am in as good a state of health and free
from paiti, as I could wish, and that I have no other motive in mak
ing this declaration, but my humble and unfeigned thanks to Almighty
God, and grateful acknowledgments to Dr. Graham, for his humane
and benevolent behaviour and attention to me during this very great
and unexpected cure.
Jan. 17th 1 78 1. Witness my hand,
WILLIAM HKFFORD.
Any person doubting the truth of the above declaration, may be
fully satisfied by enquiring for William Hefford at the sign of the
Cock, Market-lane, Sr. James's Market, Westminster.
« N°ii7.
r 24 ]
»
N° 1 17. Mrs. M. Bellis, in Castle-street, Long Acre, about a year
ago was seized with a severe rheumatic gout. When slie applied at
the Temple of Health, she was afflicted with a violent pain in her
left side night and day, and her feet and legs were monstrously
swelled. Mrs Bellis could neither stoop nor dress herself; she met,
however, with a speedy cure from my excellent medicines, &c.
N° 118. The following letter is an obliging and grateful acknow
ledgment of a very extraordinary cure in a deep and confirmed
consumption, in the case of an amiable and very respectable
young lady in Houghton-street, Clare- market.
To Dr. GRAHAM.
SIR!
Last autumn I was seized with that violent eruption called St. An
thony's Fire, in my breast, which soon run down my arm, swelling it
and my hand to the most enormous size, and attended with the most
excruciating pain, especially when touched. Notwithstanding the
medicines and applications of my apothecary and a very eminent
physician, this terrible disorder degenerated into a gangrene; and the
mortification and purple blackness of my hand, inside and outside,
when I first had your advice, was very far advanced. Indeed, I ex
pected at least to have lost my hand and arm, if not my life. Your
applications, however, relieved me immediately ; and in a few weeks,
by electricity and your electrical æther, you made a perfect cure, and
restored me to the intire use of both hand and arm.
Early in the spring L was seized, in consequence of a severe cold,
.with a constant fever, heats, cold, restlessness, and inceffmt cough
ing. My breast felt raw and fore ; I became very hoarse, and I spit
prodigious quantities of phlegm, and at length corrupted matter.
My appetite and spirits were gone ; I was reduced to a mere skeleton ;
my legs and feet swelled at night and towards morning ; by the
constant coughing in the night time I was melted down, and re
duced to the lowest degree of weakness by cold chilly sweats ; in a
word, I was thought by all my friends to be so far gone in a deep
.consumption, as to be intirely beyond the reach of medicine. En
couraged, however, by the great cure you had performed on my
hand, I applied to you, and I with the g-eatest pleasure and gratitude
declare, that in less than six weeks by your three excellent medicines,
especially I think by your æther, balsam, and your healing nourishing
herbs, I am now perfectly cured of the cough, spitting, fever, &c.
I have recovered my flesh, colour, natural sleep, and spirits ; and in
short, that I have recovered as good health and strength as I ever be-
foie enjoyed.—I give you full liberty, Sir, to publish my extraordi
nary cure, in order that others afflicted in like manner may know
where to meet with certain relief.
I shall always remain, Sir, your obedient,
At Mrs. Thornton's, atKj mQft 0bliged servant and well-wisher,
*a£SZ?u£Z' ELIZABETH DAVIS.
N' 119.
C 25 ]
N° 1 19. Major Forbes of the 29th regiment, about three years ago,
after a long and severe complaint which had preyed a good deal on
his nerves and spirits, was struck in an instant with an universal dead
palsy, which intirely deprived him of the use of all his limbs. The
major's head was particularly affected ; his speech was taken away ;
he could neither articulate words, nor connect ideas ; and his me
mory, and indeed ail the faculties of both body and mind were lost.
He was confined to his bed for nigh two years, unable to turn or to
help himself on any occasion. In this deplorable, this hopeless and
helpless condition, did this worthy and truly respectable gentleman
apply to me. His legs were swelled to a monstrous size ; he was agi
tated and debilitated with spasms and convulsions ; and his appetite
and spirits were extremely bad. The advice of the best physicians in
London, and the virtues of the most powerful medicines, had hi
therto availed nothing ; but the major finding considerable benefit
from the very first electrical æthereal operation at the Temple of
Health, wifely and resolutely persisted in the repetition of these
balmy, genial, and invigorating influences, and in taking my three
great medicines regularly and in very large quantities for about six
weeks ; and this brave officer has now recovered the use of all his
limbs, his speech, and indeed of all his faculties. At the end of the
first three weeks he joyfully hung up both his crutches as most ho
nourable trophies in the Temple of Health ; he now eats, drinks,
sleeps, and walks pretty well ; is free from all pain, weakness, and
from the swellings of his legs, and proposes very soon to join his
regiment, and to serve, he says, with double ardour and thankful
ness, his country and his most gracious King i—That the above
is a true state of my cafe, and of the great benefit I have received
by Dr. Graham's medicines and electrical operations, is attested
BY ME,
JOHN FORBES.
As it is impossible in the narrow bounds allotted for this Pamphlet,
to insert the hundredth part of the number of cures performed at
the Temple of Health, I will conclude this multitude of astonish
ing and well-authenticated cures, with exhibiting the General
Monthly State of my Medical Practice at the Temple of Health in
London, as it appears upon the books for April last.
Perfectly cured, or very considerably relieved, of violent colds,
severe coughs, and asthmatic complaints, 22 ; of consumptions, some
of which in the most advanced stages, 17 ; of the rheumatism, 34;
of nervous disorders, especially stow fevers and low spirits, proceeding
from weakness, relaxations, and irritations, 48 ; of the dead palsy,
5 ; of persons crippled and lame with pain, swellings or contractions
in the joints of their hands or feet, from the gout or rheumatic gout,
16; of recent veneceal injuries, 38; of inveterate and consumed
venereal diseases, o ; of weaknesses, relaxations, tremors, and low
D spirits,
C 26 ]
spirits, from neglect, bad treatment, repeated infections, or too much
mercury in venereal complaints, 13 ; of debility, and of wretchedness
of body and of mind, occasioned by j'onthful imprudencies, excessive
drinking, or unnatural strainings and exertions, 8 ; of severe head-:
aches, and of windy spasmodic complaints in the stomach and bowels,
12; of that disease which is cured by the touch of kings ever since the
priests communicated to them the power of working miracles, the firo-
phula, 4; of thefistula, piles, and old scorbutic sores, 9 ; of fiery, itch
ing scorbutic eruptions, some of which had degenerated into an univer
sal leprous scurf, 23; of convulsion and hysteric fits, 8 ; of the dropsy
and cold swellings of the legs, 6 ; of scarlet and spotted fevers, 5 ; of
the ague, 7; ot lunacy, 2; of the confirmed jaundice, and biliary-
pains and obstructions, 1 1 ; of the gravel, habitual stranguries, and
obstructions in the ,urethra, 7 ; of mortifications far advanced, 2 ; of
the ulcerated sore throats, and loss of voice, 5 ; of the small-pox and
measles, 4 ; of stoppages dr rising in the stomach or throat, 4 ; of
worms, 9; of deafness and noise in the ears, 34; of sore eyes, dim
ness of sight, and blindness, 8 ; of barrenness, 3 ; of the diseases pe
culiar to women, 37; and of decayed and worn- out constitutions, by
age, fretting, or free living, 5 ; rejected at first sight as incurable, 42 ;
dismissed as incurable, after a lhort trial, 14 ; dismissed for neglect, 8.
N. B. The above cures were performed chiefly by electricity, and
by the Three Great Medicines, prepared and sold alone at the
Temples of Health and of Hymen; namely, the electrical æther,
nervous œthereal balsam, and imperial pills; which may be had
as usual in vials of five shillings, half-a-guinea, or one guinea
each, with very ample directions.
ADVERTISEMENT.
Suavijsmunx eji immanbs Dolores rtfeiniere ! pracipiic, cvm nee
Suniptit, nee longa Abjliuentid Vel Dolere id obtineri pojjit.
iR. GPvAHAM, for the public good, as well as for his owrj
_} honour and emolument, thinks it his duty to depart
from what is called the regular mode, by thus publishing to the world
(having first obtained the permission of the respective parties) a great
multitude of attested cures, as important and extraordinary as any
that ever were performed in any age or country 'since the creation of
the world, and which have now effectually removed every doubt or
suspicion in even the most incredulous mind, and have shewn, to the
fullest conviction of every reasonable being, the infinite superiority,
safety, 'and certainty of Dr. Graham's discoveries and improvements in
tut lug and eradicating most diseases and weaknesses to which the
' <.• " ' '' '"' ' , ' -'. human
C 27 ]
human body is liable ; and of restoring health and cheerful serenity
of body and of mind, even when all other human means have proved
ineffectual. From the fame benevolent motives, therefore, which
induced the worthy persons whose names and residence are above in
serted ; namely, that the afflicted may know where they may me:t
With relief, Dr. Graham adds this public notice, which is particularly
addressed to the friends op persons apparently at. the
point of death, and to every individual who labours under any
kind of complaint or infirmity which has resisted the ordinary reme
dies.—To such, in whatever station of life, this advertisement is ad
dressed ; but more especially to the charitably disposed Christian—to
the affectionate parent— the dutiful child—the fond companion—aud
the tender—the anxious friend.
The above cafes, and to recapitulate briefly those which Dr.- Gra
ham has been the most remarkably successful in curing, are the fol
lowing :—viz. Violently dangerous fevers, particularly scarlet, putrid,
and nervous ones—excruciating pain and imminent danger from the
gout in the head or stomach—apoplexy—putrid ulcerated throats-
stone or gravel—-cflammations of the brain, lungs, bowels, or blad
ders-obstinate and confirmed VENEREAL complaints, from repeated
infections and irregularities, or from having been neglected, trifled
with, or improperly treated with that deadly poison mercury, severe
purging, &c.—stomach and bowels complaints—weaknesses, total sup
pressions of urine too —relaxing, sinking ; and the more immediately
dangerous female complaints—Jits, spasms, and convulsions,
especially in children and young people—the measles, small-pox,
mortifications, nervous and consumptive weaknesses—immoderate
fluxes—severe fits of coughing, suffocation, or asthma—acute, bilious,
end other obstructions—the fever and ague—the dropsy, the dead*
palsy, but especially recent strokes of the palsy, &c. In these, and
inmost other diseases, particularly in glandular and white swellings ;
complicated, severe, and wandering rheumatisms ; obstinate scurvies ;
in blindness and in deafness too, and in most of the disorders of those
most precious and most delicate organs the eye and ear, his medicines,
and gentle æthereal and electrical applications, produce the most
amazing good effects : they open obstructions, promote a due and
regular circulation of the blood and spirits, which they sweeten,
purify, enrich, and animate; nourishing, bracing, and coiling up
the nervous system when weakened and relaxed ; overcoming every
degree of putrefaction, recruiting decayed strength, and generally
acting on an exhausted body, like fresh oil poured into an expiring
lamp. After all, however, Dr. Graham is far from pretending to
work miracles or impossibilities. No : he is abundantly sensible of
the impossibility of curing many diseases in their advanced and
confirmed stages; and of the fallibility and uncertainty of all sub
lunary things ; all that he contends for is, that his methods of
treating diseases are far more powerful, safe, and rational than those in
general employed by any other physician in the world, and that he often
succeeds in curing, effectually and lastingly, diseases internal and exter-
D 2 nal,
C 28 ]
nal, when the most celebrated surgeons and physicians, and even
when the more friendly powers of regimen, exercise, and the best
mineral waters, have failed.
So amazingly has his business increased, that he has vow found it
necessary, from wotives of humanity more than for his own emolu
ment, to fit up additional apartments, and to receive at any hour of
tlv.- day such lick and lame persons as cannot afford to give fees for
advice ; aud that they are now admitted daily, Sundays excepted,
from eight o'clock in the morning, till eight at night, to whom advice,
and all necessary medico-electrical operations, &c. are administered
gratis, in rotation, according to priority of arrival, without respect
of persons, paying the apothecary for such medicines only (if any) as
their respective cafes require. As the greatest hindrances have arisen
from multitudes crowding, into the Temple of Heaith ! under
the pretence of attending sick friends, but merely to gratify their
curiosity, by staring at the apparatus, to obviate, therefore, in future,
those 'inconveniencies and impertinencies, and that as many diseased
persons as possible may partake of the salutary effects of this grand
System of Healing ! no poor person whatever,, will be admitted
without a ticket, which must be had of the porter, price half-a crown.
This is required only at the first consultation ; for Dr. Graham, on
receiving it, gives another ticket gratis, which admits the patient
during the whole course of the cure.—No sort of objection, however,
is made to one friend attending each paiicnt—that being often neces
sary, as well as decent.
The nobility, gentry, and others, in genteel or easy circumstances,
must pay a Guinea the first consultation, and at least half-a-guinea
every time after. No persons whomsoever, even personages of high
rank, need expect to be attended at their own houses, unless confined
to bed by sickness, or to their room through extreme weakness ; and
from those whom he attends at their own houses, two guineas the
first, and one guinea each visit after, is expected. Dr. Graham, for
reasons of the highest importance to the public, as well as to himself,
has a chemical laboratory and a great medicinal cabinet in his own
house ; and in the above fixed Fees, either at home or abroad, every
expence attending his advice, medicines, applications, operations, and
influences is included—a few tedious, complex, and expensive opera-
tions in the great Apollo apartment only excepted. But in cafes
where electricity or attendance are not necessary, and medicines are
required to be taken at home, or when any are sent into the country,
if they are furnished and prepared by Dr. Graham's chemists and apo
thecaries, they must be paid for separately.
Before he concludes this address, it may not be amiss to fay a
few words on the dangerous, and even fatal effects which may be
produced by so mighty an agent as the electrical fire, in the hands
of ignorant and rash people. So very powerful an element cannot
be indifferent when applied to the human body ; it must do consider
able good or considerable harm ; striking instances of both have re
peatedly
C 29 3
peatedly fallen under Dr. Graham's observation.—and lie trembles
with apprehension for his fellow-creatures, when he fees in almost
every street in this great metropolis, a barber—a surgeon—a tooth-
drawer—an apothecary—or a common mechanic turned electrical
operator. How dangerous !—how ridiculous must it be in most
cafes to venture so curious, so complex, and so delicate a machine a*
the human body", and that too, even when diseased, into such hands
to be shook, torn, and convulsed with the ignorant and improper
application of this awful element !
For his own part, he has been taught by reason, and by the most
attentive observations in innumerable experiments on almost every
substance in Nature, and in a course of practice in the cure of dis
eases, far more extensive than that of perhaps any other man in the
world, he has been taught, that all violence is hunful ; that ELEC
TRICAL SHOCKS OUGHT SELDOM OR NEVER TO BE
GIVEN ; that partial frictions, sparks, and brushings, with rich me
dicinal substances charged with electricity, or gently pervading the
whole system with a copious tide of that celestial fire, fully im
pregnated with the purest, most subtile, and balmiest parts of medi
cines, which are extracted by, and flow softly into the blood and
nervous system, with the electrical fluid, or restorative æthereal
essences. In those cases where shocks are absolutely necessary, instead
of charging bottles lined with tin foil, or other gross, impure, and
perhaps ariienical metals, his jars are filled with loadstones, sulphur,
quick-silver, and with the mildest, yet most active medicinal sub
stances from the animal, mineral, or vegetable kingdoms:—These are
charged with the celestial fire, solar vital light, vivifying air, and
with the powerful and salutary Effluvia of antimony, aromatic oils,
Peruvian bark, castor, camphire, musk, ambergrease, the balsams of
juniper, Peru, Tolu, and Gilead, and the influences of electricity,
air, æthereal medicines, and magnetism, thus combined, and positive
ly charged with the pure celestial fire, or with the magnetic effluvium,
are made to pass through the whole or any particular part of the
patient's body, giving, in such cafes as require them, a great number
or quick succession of pleasant little vibratory Shocks, so genial
and gentle as not to hurt or alarm even an infant. But, as he said
before, he generally prefers the Effluvia of these genial, aromatic,
balsamic, antispasmodic substances, or the Effluvia of the magnetic,
aerial, or æthereal essences, passing silently, sweetly, and insensibly
into the body, or confined to the seat or cause of the disease, while
the spasmodic tensions and stiffnesses are relaxed—or the relaxed and
debilitated tone of the nerves or muscular fibres braced up, or invi
gorated, as the cafe or constitution requires, with the above, and
with properly adapted harmonious vibrations, or musical modulations
of celestial sounds.
Lest it should be thought that Dr. Graham uses electricity in all
cafes, he desires to inform the public, that many of his greatest and
most extraordinary cures have been done entirely without the asis-
tanc« of electricity; and that he makes it an iavamble rule to reject
the
C 3° J
the incurable—and to Inform every patient, or their friends, at first
fight, whether a perfect cure, or what degree of relief may be ex
pected.
Dr. Graham, after a regular, classical, and medical education of
many years, at the justly celebrated university of Edinburgh, and after
attending to the practice in the best hospitals, and the lectures of the
greatest physicians in Loudon, Dublin, &c. became exceedingly dissa
tisfied at the trifling absurdities and feebleness of what is called the
regular practice of physic : but animated with the hopes of being
able to make valuable discoveries, and important improvements in the
cure of diseases, and for the prolongation of human life, he travelled
into various foreign countries, making, in the course of twelve years,
several tours through the continent of Europe, and over the extensive
provinces of America ; at length, after gathering and digesting the
fairest flowers, and the choicest fruits of the sciences, by conversing
With and attending to the labours and the lectures of the most learned
and most ingenious men in every country through which he passed )
after investigating the nature and properties of the various natural
productions, and making the most accurate chymical analyses of the
most celebrated mineral waters in Europe; he returned to Britain,
jmd after sitting tip, with infinite labour and expence, the most pow
erful, most useful, and most magnificent medical apparatus that ever
was in the world, he has now practised near two years in the metro
polis of his native country, and of the world ! with the greatest ho
nour and emolument to himself, and to the greatest benefit and ad-
Vantage of thousands of his fellow-creatures of every rank and deno
mination, who had laboured under pains and diseases which the best
regular practitioners, and the most powerful medicines in common use,
could neither cure tior alleviate.
The fame and emoluments which Dr. Graham, in consequence of
his successes in the cure of diseases, is honoured with, have long
since placed him in a sphere which is an object of envy to the
selfish and narrow-minded part of the faculty; but which neither
envy, jealous artifices, nor their illiberal, false, and wicked represen
tations, insinuations, and libels of theatrical buffoons, or of rascally
avaricious editors of newspapers have been able to remove him from.
Let them continue to act—to print, and to publish whatever their avari
cious and diabolical nature prompts them to. Dr. Graham never has, nor
everwill take the leastnotice, oranswer^oneof them. No : he looksdown
upon them all with pit}', or with smiles of sovereign—of ineffable con
tempt!—What !—shall the genial—the life-giving sun cease to mine,
because his nature and powers are not understood, or properly valued
by the generality of mortals, or because his beams offend the weak or
distorted eyes of those foul animals—those vile, venomous reptiles
which assassinate and devour in the dark ? Dr. Graham has at least
the negative consolation, that those villainous and lying represented
of things which concern him, cannot treat him worse than they have
done his betters—even the FIRST, most respectable, most innocent,
and
I 3i 1
and even the most sacred characters in the British dominions. The
liberal and enlightened few—the discerning public, can readily
distinguish true merit from pretended knowledge.—Facts are incon
trovertible—his superiority is universally acknowledged. He balks
in the sunshine of wealth and honour. He rejoices in the applause
of the candid and of the learned world—he exults in the testimony of
his own conscience !—in the approbation of his own heart ! —and as
wreaths obtained without opposition confer no honour, he cordially
has adopted the following motto—Magnum iter ascendo, fed dat mihj
gloria vires !
In order to remove cfeUually every unfavourable impression
which the jealous or envious insinuations of the faculty or their
friends, alarmed at Dr. G.'s unprecedented Fame and
Success, may have created in the minds of those who are unac
quainted with Dr. Graham, and his valuable discoveries and im
provements ; and to demonstrate to the world at large,-the infinite
superiority of his peculiar modes of treating diseases, he will continue
for another year to attend at their own home, patients in severe
ACUTE diseases, when given over for death by any other, even by
the most celebrated apothecary, surgeon, or physician, without any
expence whatever, either for attendance, advice, or medicines, (the
firflfee only excepted) if his endeavours to preserve life, under God !
prove ineffectual. When restored to health his gratuity shall, as
visual, be regulated by the generosity or circumstances of the patient.
No ordinary or trifling case will be attended to: THE ABOVE is
CONFINED TO THOSE — AND TO THOSE ALONE, WHO ARE
THOUGHT TO BE NEAR DEATH IN SEVERE ACUTE DISEASES.
Seldom, very seldom a day passes, but he has the blessedness of
easing excruciating pain, and of snatching from the grave one or
more sick persons, even when struggling in the agonies of death,
and efren after they have been abandoned by the most celebrated
Physicians. Indeed, so very amazing, so unprecedented has been the
success which has attended his practice, that not more than three or
four persons have died in the whole course or circuit of his practice
during the last two years—of the multitudes who come or are
brought every day to his house—or of those whom he has been feat
for to attend, when near death, at their own habitations. While he
assures the pubiic of the above fact, he defies the whole world to
disprove the truth of it. Such success is an honour which few other
Physicians can boast—a pleasure which very few have experienced:—•
nor, than the above, can any thing so effectually demonstrate the
infinite superbri y of his methods of treating diseases, especially as
it is well known, that for several years past he seldom ha; had less
than one hundred persons every day under his care, and often more
than even double that number. He may, therefore, with the Poet,
exclaim \
Æjne Pa>tj>eribm proiesl, Locujiletibus aqu:,
Æqui negleclit?n Pueris,—Senibul'que nocclit. HoR.
This
C 32 3
This Day are fublijbed,
I.
A NEW EDITION, being the SIXTH, of
THE
PRESENT TRIFLING, ABSURD, and INEFFECTUAL STATE OF
MEDICAL PRACTICE EXHIBITED;
WITH A FULL ACCOUNT OF
Dr. GRAHAM'S DISCOVERIES, IMPROVEMENTS,
And Methods of treating Diseases.
To this edition, which consists of 3,500 copies, is added a treatise
on medical rrmlic; a dissertation on the uses and abuses of the waters
and medical discipline or gauntlet of Bath, Aix-la-Chapelle, the Ger
man Spa, and of other great watering places in England ; a complete
description too is given of Dr. Graham's Medico- electrical Apparatus,
and of the Three Great Medicines, Electrical Æther, Nervous Æthe-
real Balsam, and of the Imperial Electric Pills .'—and to the whole
are added, above an hundred and ten recent and remarkable cures,
in most kinds of diseases and lamenesses, wrought by Dr. Graham's
peculiar methods, many of which he lately had the high honour of
performing immediately under the eye, and of having attested by the
hand-writing of her Grace the Dutchess of Devonshire J the Right
Honourable Lady Spencer ! the Right Honourable Lady Clermont !
His most Serene Highness Frederick Prince of Hesse Cassel ! Earl
Spencer ! and many other of the first nobility, both in church and
state, in Europe—who, for the encouragement of the afflicted, and
general benefit of mankind, were pleased, voluntarily and un
solicited, to honour Dr. Graham with the above-mentioned cer
tificate.
The whole interspersed with such observations, reflections, and pre
cepts—medical, philosophical, moral, and religious—as are necessary
for the preservation of health and long life in this world, and for the
actainment of happiness and glory in future states of existence!
Printed for Almon, Piccadilly ; Becket, Adelphi ; and Rich
ardson and Urqjjhart, under the Royal Exchange; Price only
3s. 6d though it contains as much matter (reading) as a modern.
Guinea Quarto.
This book is fold, likewise, at the Temples of Health ano
of Hymen ! but as the sale of it is no fort of object, Dr. Graham
has given orders for his porters to return the money to those who,
having
C 33 1
having read the book, choose to return it. But this is not meant
to extend to those books which have been given away, or to those
• sold by the Booksellers.
II.
Dr. Gfaham'j private medical advice to married ladies andgentlemen
—to those especially who are not blessed ivith children—to be had at
vsual, sealed up, price One Guinea, alone at the Temple of
Health in the Adelphi, and at the Temple of Hymen in.
Pail-Mall, near the King's Palace ! At the fame places may be
had the divine or prolific balsam, for the removal of the -watery
•weakness and*debility in men, and barrenness in -women, price One
Guinea the vial, -with direclions.
In which such plain, simple, natural, and effect ual means for re
moving the causes of barrenness in both sexes, as never before were
recommended, or even perhaps thought of, in any age or nation,
are pointed out. Containing, likewise, prescriptions and directions
for a speedy and perfect recovery after severe miscarriages and lyings-
in for recruiting and renovating decayed and worn-out consti
tutions for fanning and blowing up the smallest sparks of virility
—or even the expiring embers of the vital generative powers in either
sex, into a genial and prolific flame;—and, in a word, for enjoying
juvenile strength and feelings under the controul of wisdom and the
divine influences of mental happiness, serenity, and peace. The
whole interspersed with such precepts and directions as will, if duly
attended to, make man and wife sweeter, lovelier, and MORE
DES I R AB LE in the eyes of each other—the lady speedily be
coming a healthy and happy mother!—and if naturally healthy, well
formed and disposed—a snowy rock of Health, studded with roses,
and 'streaked with celestial blue ! The whole comprized in eight large
folio pages.
*#* If any lady or gentleman, who fends for the above, after pe
rusing it, and paying that attention to it which the high importance
of the subject demands, calls upon Dr. Graham, and declares that
they have found no benefit, and that the advices,are not worth the
Guinea, he will not only return the Guinea, but eveu Ten more, if
the- party desires it.
POSTSCRIPT.
AS this great system of healing, and of encreafing the number
and happiness of the human species, which I have with so
much labor and expence explored, and bow happily confirmed, is of
E the
r 3+ t
the highest importance, not only to the inhabitants of the British empire
at present, but likewise to the whole human species throughout the
whole earth, for thousands of years to come, even perhaps to the end
of time ! I propose to continue to practise in this great metropolises my
native country, till the end ot the year i 783—in order to demonstrate
to the entire satisfaction of ^persons of every rank, from the throne to
the cottage, the facility, certainty, and, in a word, the infinite supe
riority ot my methods of propagation in difficult cafes, of preventing
and curing all curable diseases, external as well as internal, to which
the human body is liable, and of extending life free from sickness,
and with the dear healthy exercise of the mental faculties, to the
longest possible period.——At the expiration of the three years, I in,.
jend to make proposals to the British Parliament concerning
publishing to the world" all my discoveries, improvements, and me
thods of propagation, and of managing and curing diseases, &c. with
out any reserve whatever; and that I may continue to communicate,
from time to time, such farther discoveries and Improvements as
assiduous investigation, and a practice with an apparatus more po
tent and more extensive than that of any other physician on the face
of the globe, shall enable me to make.
If I do not meet with that benevolence and encouragement from-
the Legislature ot my own country, which the vast importance
of the object merits—I propose to reside and practise about a year
at each of the principal courts in Europe;' and after that, under the
royal and imperial auspices of European wisdom and munificence at
large, I will then publish to mankind the great prolific Code, andj
System of Health and of the Healing Art, which I am now
digesting, compiling, and perfecting as far as the experience of
one age will permit—I fay one age, because I am now establishing a
medical correspondence in every part of the world—for the universal
improvement and perfection of Medical and Chirurgical Science.
Would to God that a Franklin, a Priellley, and several other great
and learned men I could name, had been practising physicians,
what might not be expected from the indefatigable labors of such
bright and penetrating intelligencies !
In order to lessen my fatigue in business, and for the good of
the public, as well as for my own private emolument, I propose im
mediately to take as pupils and aslillants, three gentlemen more, whq
have bad the advantages, if not of a medical, at least of a liberal or
classical education.—To prevent all trouble, the premium I demand
from each is a thousand guineas prompt, and an hundred guineas
per annum for board, &c. while he remains in my Louse.
The
t 35 J
The following Trophies, or little Pieces of Poetry, and especially the
•following Ode, which was set to Music," and performed in the
Great Apollo Apartment at the solemn Dedication of the Temple
of Health, on the Organ, the Harmonica, and the Cclestirn,
accompanied with Flutes, Clarionets, and by some of the finest
vocal Performers, give so sweet au Idea of the gentle Nature
and salutary Effects of my astonishing Appafarus* and of^Tny
peculiar Methods and great Success in curing Drfeales, and re
storing decayed Constitutions to blooming Health and juvenile
Strengths that they must be introduced With the greatest Propriety
into this Advertisement;
RECITATIVE. (The Sim blazing in its Meridian Splendour.)
Hail ! Vital Air Æthereai! --Magnetic Magic— Hail !
Thine Iron Arm—-thy bracing sinewy Arm !—is everlasting Strength !
Hail! Harmony—Music Divine!!!—thrice Hail !•>- Thy Soul is Love—J.iy—Peace-is
and Heaith !
And thou, celestial Fire !—Thou, Fixe Electric .'—GREAT RENOVATOR !—<
THE LIFE OF ALL THINGS ! Hail!
«-Hail ! Wondrous Combination !—Heavenly Unity !—In Majesty and Mystery com-
bin'd——
F.nthron'd—unveil'd—-in this tremendous—this most genLl Temple !-i—'.
First to Britannia's Sous—to Britain's Daughters—on thy soft fostering Wings
In gentle Progress through the balmy the Æthereai Air——bear the best Blessings
HEALTH !
Then to eaeh human Being-'-without excepting One of any Rank or Nation,
Who thankfully accepts thy proffer'd gifts, the three gre.1t tiiccours give.
Electric Æther I Nervous Æthereai Balm ! and Pills Imperial !
O ! open wide thy Hand, that flings the rose of Health o'er the pale Cheek os Sickncssj
Thy kind Hand—lhat bears the healing Branch ! O let it far-
Far from TH use sacred Walls remove dire Pain, Disease, and Melancholy
And the long Train of Ills, which ever and anon torment their wretched victims.
AIR. The Litrbt moderated by the Intervention of rose-colouredsilk Curtains:
Come, then, ah come ! 0 sacred HEALTH!
The Monarch's Bliss! —the Beggar's Wealth ;
The Seas'ning of all Good below,
The sovereign Friend in Joy or Woe.
O thou ! most courted, most despised^
And but in Absence duly prized ;
Root of the soft and rosy Face !
The vivid Pulse—each Charm—each Grace !
The Spirits when they gayest shire,
Youth, Beauty, Pleasure—all are THINE !
GRAND CHORUS, accompanied with the full Organ, &*;
(The Windows being suddenly darkened, and the Apartment illuminated, i/i
a Moment, with many Ibattfarids of Eiettrical Stars; and Meteors of et'
lejlial Brilliance.)
Hail ! Wond'rous Combination ! ! !—but chief—THCTJ FIRE ELECTRIC !
—Celestial Renovator!—Thou Life of all Things—IHail !
• ' In Majesty and Mystery eombin'd!
Xnthron'd—unveil'd—in this tremendous—this most genial Temple !
To Britain's Daughters—to Britannia's Sons—bear the best Blessing, HEALTH!
Stretch forth thy Hand that bears the triple Branch
Medicinal !—which binds up broken Hearts !—illumes the Soul,
And flings the Rose of Health o'er the pale Cheek of Sickness, ...
Far—far from those who tak« them, auJ from these secred Walls removing F*in an«
Death.
E 36 ]
w
On reading the Letter from Mrs. Catharine Macaulat
Graham, the celebrated Hi/torian, inserted in this Pam
phlet, acknowledging her extraordinary Cure.
I T H pensive step, and humid eye,
Her bosom charg'd with many a sigh,
Before APOLLO 's Throne:
Th' Historic Muse reclin'd her head,
Her supplicating hands she spread,
And made her sorrows known.
Great patron of the healing art,
O cheat- this fond, forboding heart,
And let these tears be dry ! ,
They for my dearest fav'rite flow,—
O ward from- her the fatal blow,
That bids MACAULAY die J -
Long in her tender frame unseen,
The How progressive foe has been.
And now my fears presage,
Too soon that pen shall useless be,
Fair Cath'rine had from truth and me,
To fill th' immortal page.
Say not, these fears are mine, in vain,
For ah ! behold in yonder fane *
The marble tomb arise ;
Alas ! the monumental bust,
And tribute to her fame, though jufl,
Are horror to mine eyes ;
" O ! is there not some potent charm,
The cruel spoiler to disarm,
That health again may bloom ?
May not the Muse dismiss her fears,
And fee, her fav'rite's added years,
Still disappoint the tomb."
" Thou shalt," th'indulgent God reply'd,
Dear maid, let all thy tears be dry'd,
Cath'rine shall yet be thine ;
Her hand shall re-afTume the quill,
And bid the faithful record still
Along thy pages shine.
To stop the ravage of the foe,
My GRAHAM instantly lhall go,
And set thy fav'rite free ;
Alluding to a sine marb'e statue ofiMrs. Macaulay Graham, lately erected in St.
itcrfiea's, AValbrook, behind the Mansion-house, London,
C 37 ]
No more let sorrow fill thine eye,
On GRAHAM'S (kill secure rely,
FOR HE WAS TAUGHT BY ME."
" O how," (the Muse inraptur'd cries,
With transports beaming from her eyes)
" Shall I reward him then."
" His great reward," APOLLO said,
" Shall be the thanks, my dearest maid,
From GREAT MACAULAY's pen."
Marlborough, Nov. i$th. J. H.
I beg leave to lay the following before the public, as a very great
curiofity—I suppose they were written by a poor Collier in a coal-pit ;
they do me however no less medical honour than if an equal number
of lines had been composed on the occasion by the Poet Laureats
Extras} from the Newcastle Journal, April tth 1780.
There is so much honest simplicity in the introduction to the following
lines, that it excites at once a tear of commiseration, and a desire
to oblige " the unlettered Muse." They are indeed a homely, but
a very honourable panegyric on Dr. Graham's medical abilities.
To the Printer of the Newcastle Journal.
SIR,
IF you think these verses will not disgrace your paper too much,
pray insert them:—I beg you would be so good as to excuse my mis
takes ; for I am a person that works daily at the hardest of labour ;
and were it not, sir, for some few rays of light, which force their way
through the cold and obscurity of birth, situation, and fortune, I might
be safely said to live—or rather to lie buried in the bowels of the
earth.
Newbiggin by the Sea, R. G.
March 28, 1780.
THE great Doctor GRAHAM,
One cure's rais'd his fame,
That has spread our country around ;
In Albion's fair ifle,
If you search ev'ry mile,
Jts 'equal is not to be found.
Most
r 3s i
r:
Most surely our God !
From his sacred abode,
Hearing the poor suff'rer mourns,
Hath diffused from thence,
Some part of his essence,
By his hand to make health returi.
My friend, whom he cur'd,
Much pain hath endur'd,—
Sufficient a monster to kill j
Five long years, or more,
A disorder she bore,
Which had baffled all medical skill.
The Faculty stare, .
While we all revere,
A cure which is clear.as noon-day ;
They are forc'd to be mute,
"While we all salute,
Our neighbour and friend Mrs. Hay.
%* See Mrs. Hay's Cafe, N° 49, Page 8.
An ACROSTIC, by a LADY, art
D EIGN to accept the tribute which* I owe,
O ne grateful, joyful tear permit to flow ;
C an I be silent when good health is given ?
T hat first—that best—that richest gift of Heaven t
O Muse ! descend, in most exalted Jays,
R epleie with softest notes, attune his praise,
G en'rous by nature, matchless in thy skill !
R ich in the godlike art—to ease—to heal ;
A ll bless thy gifts !—'the sick—the lame—the blind,
H ail thee with rapture for the cure they find 1
A rm'd by the DEITY with pow'r divine,
M ortals revere HIS attributes in thine !
February qth. J. B.
" Ex sanis pulmonibus spirant phthisid."
A Tribute by a Clergyman cured of a Consumption,
On hearing that Dr. GRAHAM intends leaving BATH on the %th of
April.
WILL GRAHAM go ?—who, born to bless mankind,
Gives health of body, firmness to the mind ;
Whose
t 39 ]
Whose public merit to the world is known—
Whose private worth would dignify a throne !
With sense, politeness, elegance endu'd,
Averse to evil—eager to do good—
Effusive virtues from his breast arise,
And soft compassion sparkles in his eyes!
Ye who have seen—have prov'd his skillful art,
Will feel his absence iti a grateful heart ;
The echoing sigh, the silent speaking tear,
Shall grace his memory—to hundreds dear ;—
Honour'd—esteem'd—he gains a deathless fame,
While Envy sickens at a GRAHAM'S name !
E. P.
By a Gentleman cured of a Complication of Disorders, Nervous, Fe-
.nereal, and Scorbutic, after he had been deemed incurable by the
principal Physicians in England.
To Dr. GRAHAM.
SIR,
WHILE partial foes incessantly declaim,
And point their malice at distinguiih'd fame.
Forgive an humble Bard, his wish to praise,
And with your exellence exalt his lays.
'Tis yours alone to point out Nature's laws,
And from effects produce the real cause,
The force of electricity display,
What will effect, and what will disobey ; '
The pow'rs of Physic you alone define,
And Health's fair Temple glows with fire divine !
Proceed, great Sir, in spite of pedant fools,
Who judge from what they call establish'd rules ;
Hold up the mirror ofjhy matchless skill,
And prove, that NATURE is your object still ;
Fame join'd with fortune shall the truth advance,
And prove your doctrines not the works of Chance.
March 2 ist, A. Z.
1781.
TO
TO THEIR EXCELLENCIES
THE
FOREIGN AMBASSADORS!
TO THE NOBILITY, GENTRY,
AND TO
GENTLEMEN AND LADIES OF LEARNING AND OF TASTE,
Every Monday, Wednesday, and Friday Evening, exatlly at Eight
o'clock,
(For this Week only)
THE CELESTIAL BRILLIANCY of the Medico-Electrical
Apparatus in all the Apartments of the
TEMPLE of HEALTH,
•will be exhibited by Dr. GRAHAM himself, who will have the
honour of explaining the true nature and effects of Electricity, Air,
Music, and Magnetism, when applied to the human body.
In the introductory Oration, the whole art of enjoying health and
vigour of body and of mind, and of preserving and exalting personal
beauty and loveliness ; or, in other words, of living with health, ho
nour, and happiness in this world, for at kail an hundred years, is
pointed out, and warmly inculcated.
Previous to the display of flic Electrical Fire, the Doctor will deli
cately touch upon the CELESTIAL BEDS, which are to be opened
rexr week in the TEMPLE of HYMEN, in Pall-Mail, for the pro
pagation o{ beings rational, and far stronger and more beautiful in
mental as well as in bodily endowments—-than the present puny, feeble,
and nonsensical race of Chiistiahs, of probationary immortals! writ*
crawl and fret, and contra.i y to every principle of reason, humanity^
national policy, and of Christianity, persecute, rob, destroy, chace,
and cut one another's throats tor nothing at all. on molt part of this
terraqueous globe.
This Apparatus, which visibly displays, as it were, the various
faculties of the material foul of universal and eternal Nature, is ac
knowledged by ail, who have seen it, to be by far the largest, molt use
ful, and most magnificent that now is, or that ever was in the world.
Admittance 5s.
N. R. Dr. GRAHAM, on account of the very great increase of bis
practice in the cure of diseases, bas been under the necessity of
discontinuing the exhibition of the Medico Electrical Appa-
ra.us in the day-time.
The
^^
\\
C 4i 3
The design of Dr. GRAHAM's CELESTIAL BED being misun
derstood, requires explanation, lest the public through ignorance or
prejudice, should be disappointed of the benefit of so ingenious and
useful a discovery.
The want of children so much lamented in many noble families,
and indeed by all married people, arises from corporeal, mental, or
accidental defects. The corporeal defects are a laxity or debility of
the nervous system, and a consequent acrimony of the juices which
actuate that system, an indisposition of the parts or (which most fre
quently happens) obstructions. The mental defects are want of cou-
xa Jh the male side, or of imagination on the female. The acciden-
ta^Qfuses are, when a lively vivacious woman is married to an inert,
inactive man, or, vice versa. Electricity is the most powerful engine
or influence in Nature to remedy these several effects : it gives a tone to
the lax fibres—it corrects the acrimony of the juices by increasing the
perspiration, strengthens the animal powers, and effectually removes
obstructions. It expels all fear, expanding the imagination with the
liveliest and most sublime ideas; and lastly, it assimilates the most inac
tive to the most inert ; and from all these causes cannot fail of produc
ing the wilhed-for effects. The CELESTIAL BED is highly elec
trified, so that the persons reposing therein bask in a genial, invigo
rating tide of the celestial fire ; which, as it powerfully vivifies, at the
fame time it removes all impediments,—it cannot fail in the nature of
things of producing a healthful and most beauteous offspring.
Sons springingfrom this Bed like Marsshallprove,
And Daughters beauteous as the Qtteen of Lave !
*#* Dr. Graham designs it for the use os married people only,
and will take every possible precaution in his power to exclude
the licentious and impure ; and flatters himself that he shall
meet with the patronage of the great, the learned, and the
good, and the approbation of the public at large j as the
chief object of his ambition is to promote the happiness of
private families, and to prevent chagrin, adultery, and di
vorces, which frequently arise from the want of children in
illustrious and noble families.
45* In order to deter the wantonly lascivious,—the mere votaries of
pleasure, from polluting the Temple of Hymen, the following
lines are written in Goldan Capitals over the Grand Entrance,
OTAEI2 AKA0APTO2 EI2ITJ2!
Procul ! 0 procul este Profanj J Vise
f
