{"name":"Sound An Alarm In My Holy Mountain","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1808__southcott___sound_an_alarm_in_my_holy_mountain.pdf","mytitle":"Sound An Alarm In My Holy Mountain","mylang":"de"}
/
\
«
FOURTH EDITION. ,
•v
SOUND AN ALARM
IN
MY HOLY MOUNTAIN.*:
A t my other Books have treated on the Prophecies o f Nations/
tfus m il treat on -the meaning o fthe Seating, and how Sa­
tan’s reign is to be cut short thereby ; as his destruction
wasforetold in 1792, as well as the principal Events o f
the Nations, which have already taken place, as far as itie
Shadows; but the end o f the Pistons brings the Substance
to all lands: — viz. how Christ’s Kingdom will be
established upon earth; and Satan’s kingdom be destroyed;
• and which will be explained in this Book, as shewing thx
cfidofthc Visions concerning Satan’s reign.
Joanna SouTHCOTTr
Leeds, Jan. 30, 1804,
A s I am ordered to put in print the jealousies .
which alarmed my breast, after I was ordered .by.
the Spirit to seal up the Lists at the end of the -
year,.old style, for Satan’skingdom to be destroyed,
and for Christ’s kingdom to be established upon,
earth; and that it. wotdd'be more fatal for me,
and all mankind, than the fall of Eve was, if'I
did n o t o b e y ; I shall now assign my reasons of
what filled me with fears, when the time.drew
near. My first alarm was from men; professors
of religion—and professors of preaching the Gos­
pel ; $.3 they had denied the fulfilment of the
* Joel, 2d chap.
Printed, April, 1808, by W. Merchant, 3, Grcville-Strect, London, from the
lhird Edition, published in November,
Digitized by Google
Bible, and said my prophecies might come true by ■
chance,and notby the Loro. For, they affirmed the
Bible woutd never be fulfilled, as it was said to me
—viz. ofSatan’sdestruction, and of man’s redemp­
tion.—The only way, they said, Christ's kingdom
would be brought in, was by their preaching.
This I know was so contrary to the truth of the
Gospel; and so far from having any appearance
of its effects at present; that, instead of the world
being the better since their boasted preaching, it
seems to grow worse and worse. Therefore, I am
convinced there is no power in man, to bring in.
the kingdom of Christ; and our Saviour said,
“ Without me, yecan do nothing.” Then how can
men, who deny the power of the Spirit of God,
do any thing ? For, our Saviour said, “ I am
the gpod Shepherd, and careth for my sheep, and
my sheep know my voice, and they follow me
wheresoever I go.” Then his voice must be
known to them, that he goes unto. And he
said, If I tell you things earthly, and ye will not
believe me, how shall ye believe me, it I tell you
things heavenly? For, it is written, “ Thetesti­
mony of Jesus is the Spirit of Prophecy ;” aud
without the Spirit of Prophecy, how can the tes­
timony of Jesus come? Therefore it is written by
the Apostle, “ Quench not the Spirit, despise not
prophecies.”—For, it is said, by the Prophet Joel,
in the latter days, that I will pour out my
Spirit upon all flesh—and upon my sons, and upon
my handmaids, and they shall prophesy—and our
Saviour said, “ I came not to destroy the Law or
the Prophets, but to fulfil them." And he saith,
“ The wind bloweth where it listeth, and ye hear
the sound thereof; but cannot tell from whence
it comes, and whither it goeth: so is every one that
is born of the Spirit.” Now, these things coming
to me, so perfectly like the words of our dear Re­
deemer, that made me judge the manner-of my
2
Digitized by L . o o Q [ e
visitation and the...truth which followed, that my
visitation was from the Lord—though I could not
tell from whence it comes, or whither it goeth—
but I trust to the words of the Spirit, that assure
me, it is of God, and the truth wnich followed to
be my testimony. Now, as it is written, ye shall
know the Lord, if ye follow on to know him ; for
the God of Truth will lead you unto all truth:
and ye shall hear the sound of your Master’s feet
behind ye. “ This is the way, walk ye in i t :” for
every good and perfect gift cometh down from the
Father of Light; and tn« Spirit of God beareth
witness with our Spirits, if we are born of God ;
that is, if the knowledge of God be revealed to
us. But finding all these Scriptures so firmly de­
nied by the professed Christians, aud those that
call themselves “ Gom»ei. Preachers,” denying
these things as coming from the Spirit of G od;
but affirming in this manner, Satan will come as
an angel of light, and deceive us; and that know­
ledge caii come from the devil, or from some spi­
rits we know not; this filled my heart with jea­
lousy—finding the truth of the Bible was denied:
—for, if the' words of men were true, I knew the
Bible could not be true: But if the Bible was true,
I knew the eyeof the Lord wasevery where present,
round our beds, and round our paths; and he hath
promised, the gates of hell shall not prevail against
lis;and he will notsufferus to be tempted abovethat
we are able; but will with the temptation make
way for our escape. Now, as I am but dust and
ashes, and cannot be a judge of spirits invisible,
my whole trust was in the God of my salvation,
that he would be the rock of my defence against
the world, the flesh, and the devil—that I might
not be deceived by either, as my whole trust was
in the Lord, judging him a God of mercy, of all
knowledge, goodness, and truth; that if he so
loved the world, as to give his only beloved Son
3
Digitized by Google
to die for us—and the love of Christ was so great,
freely to give up his Life for us all, and said, “ he
was with us to the end; ” then we must know, that
all our thoughts and hearts are open to his view.
This made me lay my heart and soul before him,
trusting in his unbounded mercies and goodness—
for, if the judgment of men'were true, that my
visitation could come from any spirit which was
not of God, he would be pleased to take me out
of the world, that I might not live to dishonour
God, by any wrong spirit coming in his name—
nor deceive men, who were running such hazards
in love of God, to be workers with him to bring
in his kingdom of peace upon earth, as the disci­
ples were to bring in his Gospel. For, all these
things I pondered deep in my heart, that if a
wrong spirit led me, he was dishonouring God by
coming in his name, and mocking the warm love
of mankind, that are so desirous for Christ’s
kingdom to be established, and for Satan’s
kingdom to be destroyed. And, as I judge
the Lord to be a- faithful rewarder of them,
who diligently seek him—and that he hath never
said to the seeking seed of Israel, Seek ye my face
• in vain. Therefore I trusted in his mercy and
goodness, he would not permit us thus to seek
him in vain.—And as the truths of my prophe­
cies had come on in such a wonderful manner,
and I had so powerfully been-kept in the midst of
temptations, which I judged was owing to the
power and goodness of God, that nothing but
death could convince me to the contrary, that my
calling was not of God, and that the judgments
of men were true. To my prayers you will see the
answer—First, iu the letter sent to the Rev. T. P.
Foley-
On January the 4th you will see the warning of
the llap on my Table, which made me judge I
should die; and then you will see the answer given
4
Digitized by Google
by the Spirit, that I should not die;—but it wad
a token of death to those who wished my death.
Now, the Lord has preserved my life, according
to his words, and I must be plain with the whole
world, that I could sooner believe there was no
God, than believe there was a faithless God, who
would preserve my life, to strengthen my faith,
and the faith of those who were running into
all hazards for his sake. Would not the Lord
have taken my life for their sakes? Is not all
power in his hands? Is there a heart or thought
concealed from him ? Are not all things open
to his view, and the events of all things known
to him ? And is he not the God of Truth that
cannot lie? Now, I answer, let God be true, and
every man a liar, that says my writings are not
from the Most High Goa.—And let the unbe­
lieving world tell me what they judge of God r—
But I shall answer for them. They judge the
Lord another such as themselves: but 1judge the
Lord not like man. For, I must judge him
Almighty -in power, wisdom, goodness, and
truth : a God, that cannot be deceived—nei­
ther will he deceive; for the Lordjudgeth not
as man judgeth, by outward appearance ; but the
Lord judgeth from the heart. And to him do I
appeal to be my judge—and he will be a swift
witness against my enemies, and false accusers.
For, 1 am clear, that none but a God, that is
wondrous in wisdom, wondrous in working, won­
drous in counsel, and wondrous in truth, could
ever have foretold such wondrous events, and
have brought them round in such a marvellous
manner, as was spoken in. 17.92 of Satan’s de­
struction, and of the visitations on all Nations.
Here I have shewn my readers how the judgment
of mankind; and of their denying the lulfilment
of the Bible, filled my heart with jealousy at first
—
-and now they have made my faith the stronger
5
Digitized by Google
at last. For it is impossible for me to believe my
Bible, and disbelieve my calling to be of God.
Will he act more faithless with his creatures, than
an upright man would act with man? Did our
Savioqr warn us qf any power, but the Power of
God, and the power of the devil ? Of any spirits,
but those from the Lord ? or, from the devil <
And bath he not said, Risist- the devil, and he
will flee from you? Draw nigh to Christ, and he
will draw nigh to you. These are the only spirits
mentioned in Holy Writ. Then where is the third
spirit, which men speak of? If I believe the
Bible, the Scriptures must be my rule and guide:
and none but a God, who is wondrous in wis­
dom, could ever have brought round such mar­
vellous things. Now I shall leave my readers to
judge for themselves, from the letter sent to the
Rev. T. P. Foley, at Oldswinford, Worcestershire,
January 3, 1804.
“ R e v . S i r ,
I thank you for your kind letter; and I am
happy to hear that believers are coming in so fast,
to sign their names: but I have a caution to give
them—As the blessing is great to believers, or to
them whose hearts are truly desirous, that Christ’s
Kingdom may be established, and Satan’s power
be destroyed, I shall now give you a communi­
cation, lately given to me, concerning the Seal­
ing.”
“ The Sealing must first take place before the
end can come. Satan must be fixed to bounds;
as man was fixed to bounds. For, in me there is
no variableness, nor shadow of turning. Then
how shall I turn from the manner I first began ?
All things have their time, and their bounds—
winter and summer, seed time and harvest, life
and death, have their appointed time: but if a
6
Digitized by Google
law is made for man, that it is death to break that
law ; by that law he must die. This is the law of
m en; then he doth not live out the days, that
are appointed by me, to die a natural death. Just
so is tne law now made, that if Satan breaks the
law that I have made, by pursuirig the Sealed Peo­
ple, either by temptations within, or by persecu­
tion in man without; he shall hot go through the
time of his six thousand years. For, like the man
that breaks the law, and is put to death by man,
before his days are ended m a natural death by
me ; so shall Satan’s power be cutoff the same, if
he breaks my law. The Bond is made and signed
by man; and at the end of the year, old style, it
must be sealed up with three seals; ana with
words that I shall then give, thee; and Satan must
know his final doom. For, the word is gone out
of my mouth, and never shall return till all is
accomplished, “ That unto me every knee shall
bo\v, of things in heaven, and of things on earth.”
So, now, if Satan will not bow with submission
to my just decrees, he shall be separated from the
earth, for the sake of my elect, that are now sign­
ing to elect me, as their Prophet, Priest, and King.
As their Prophet, by allowing these prophecies
coming from me, and that every soul shall know;
as their Priest, to teach them the true meaning of
all. my Bible, that I have concealed from man ;
therefore, it is out of man’s power to explain it,
without my Spirit, coming as their Priest to direct
them—and they that are led by it are made
priests- unto me, to believe I am coming in the
Spirit; as my disciples believed my coming in the
body. And now, as their King, they have chosen
me ; and their King now l will be; for the
earth is mine, and all that therein is. And
now I shall come to claim it for my own,
and bring in my true heirs: for I now tell thee,
and ail mankind, my true heirs are those that are
7
Digitized by Google
persecuted now for my sake; as I was persecuted
tor their sakes; and now they are signing for me
to have the Kingdom, and they must be made
heirs of my Kingdom : and he that is not with
me now, is against me; and I shall be against
them. For, in the Sealiug, justice is done to man
and devils; justice to Satan, to cut him off for
his rebellion; as man was cut'off from the land
of Egypt, for pursuing the children of Israel;
and as man was pronounced dead to knowledge,
for disobedience; so shall Satan be dead to the
knowledge of man.”
Now I shall come to some particulars concerning
the people. It is not a trifling matter for people
to put their hands to the plough and draw back; it
is better for them never to sign at all, than, after
they have signed, to destroy their seals; because
they first sign for Satan’s destruption, and after­
wards destroy the seal of Christ’s'protection ; but
the awful sentence was not passed to me till now,
that it is come to the end of the year. It was let
to go on to shew the likeness of what it was com­
pared to; for it was compared to the election of
men ; and every thing must bear a resemblance of
what it was compared to : and as in election many
give their voice to ole, ami after turn from their
word to the other; perfectly so have many done
by giving their word, and signing their names;
but have gone from it by destroying their seals.
“ This is perfectly like the election of m en;
and perfectly like election it shall end; and they
that are not with me, are against me. For, I now
tell thee, they that sign and draw back, by de­
stroying their seals of safety, have only signed
for their own destruction ; because they have de­
stroyed my protection against the powers of dark­
ness : for they are sealed to be heirs of glory, and
to inherit the Tree of Life; to be made heirs
that I died to redeem from Satan’s power, that
Digitized by Google
n a n might live in m l as I .erected him. For, do
n en judge Satan is come to call his own destruc­
tion ? Or, do men judge foreknowledge was
given to a woman in so clear a manner to deceive
gnankind ? Look at the first call jn 1792, where it
.is said, Saints should see it and rejoice: Hell
*
*should tremble at my voice.” And now trace
back the footsteps, how it was spoken in the be­
ginning, and how the directions were given to
frove it so in the ending—then you may know that
the Lord have been her Director, her Guide, and
her Counsellor. For, I now tell you all, no more
than this woman could have made the world her­
self; no more could she have brought round such
mysteries, as are in her writings, and foretold the
events that have already happened. Therefore' I
tell you all, it is I the Lond have called her; and
thesealing was by my command; audit ishappy for
them tnat keep their seals; but fatal for those that
destroyed them. 1 have let it go on one year, to
shew the likeness of election, without shewing their
fatal dangers; but now I tell all men, he that put-
teth his hand to the pk>pgh and draweth back,
cannot enter into the kingdom of heaven; for this
is the plough must break the mound for my King­
dom to be established upoir earth, and Satan’s
kingdom to be destroyed. So let the sealed stand
stedfast, and they shall reap if they faint not.”
I have given you this Communication concern*
ing the Sealing, that you may tell them their dan­
gers, if they should break their seals. Now 1 shall
give you a Communication that was given to me
this morning, January 3, 1804. It is fruitless to
pen the feelings of my heart the week that is past,
fearing there might be a possibility for me to do
wrong, in sealing the people, if my prophecies could
come from any spirit of knowledge, that is not of
God; this made me earnest in prayer, that the
Lord would sooner take my life from me than suf-
c
9
Digitized by L , o o Q l e
fer me to seal in his name what the Lord had not
commanded me to do. I was answered—
As close as Pharaoh pursued Moses; so close is
Satan pursuing thee, as the time draws near for thee
to seal up tire lia^s for his destruction; so thou hart
the sealed people with thee by thousands' of names,
and Satan is pursuing thee and them; and thou
feelest it as strongly as any man can feel it. Faith
and fear are strong in thy breast, fearing there
might be a possibility for thee to do wrong if
any spirit hath visited thee to whom knowledge is
given, that is not from me. So thou fearest to go ,
forward or backward ; for I know how stronjpy I
Satan works iu thy mind and heart, to make thee
Jealous of thy Bible, that a wrong spirit had made I
it at first, and now is come to explain it to make
it appear true. But know', I told thee, as he
spoke to thee by the hearing of the ear,; so he
would work upon the mind and heart to persuade |
you that you are doing wrong; or, these fears
would not alarm you; that if you are doing right
1 should dismiss your fears. Oh, tlfcm of little
•faith ! wherefore dost thou doubt? Call to thy I
remembrance thy^visitation in 1792, when the
voice called thee aloud, •
“ Joanna, Joanna, the
Angels rejoiced at tby birth —But for what
•reason could they rejoice at thy birth, had they ,
not known for what ends thou wast borh—to free I
them, as well as men, from the insults of the de­
vil ? Can they come to be your guardian angels _ ■
without bearing the affronts of Satan and fallen !
angels ?' I tell thee, no ! my Spirit fs daily pro- |
voked with them,- and- the angels are provoked
the same. But my Spirit shall not always strive
with man; nor men and angels be always
striving with the devil; but my delight shall be
with the sons of men ; and their delight shall be
with m e. And now, I Say, happy, thrice happy
are all-those that have signed with their- hearts
10
Digitized by Google
and hands joined together, and do not draw bhck
through unbelief, to destroy their seals; for all
men snail find their redemption draweth near, to
be redeemed from Adam’s fall, and Satan’s power.
But I now tell thee plainly, it must be fatal for
thee and alt mankind, if thou now shouldest draw
.back; and much more fatal than the fall of Eve
was to men ; and fatal would thy fall now be to
thee, to draw back through unbelief. For, I now
-tell thee, thy Prayer was heard ; and I will answer
i t : Thou prayedst that I would take thy life from
thee, before the end of the year, sooner than to let
thee seal up what I have not commanded. Now,
I tell thee plainly, if the command is not given by
the King of kings, and Lord of lords, who dwell-
eth in the heavens above, and amongst the inha­
bitants of the earth below, that made the earth,
and-formed man in it, and gave the Son from my
bosom to die to redeem it—if this command is
not given by me, the living Lord of heaven and
earth, I will take thee by death before this year
ends, old style; but if I preserve thy life, whatever
command is given, know it is I the Lord that gave
it, and it is fatal for thee to disobey—bpt in thy
heart thou sayest thou wilt obey, if I should spare
thy life------
Then now let all men answer me,
Which of the two the worst must be;
Or, which you judge the most to blame,
If I this woman's life prolong,
To do a work that's not for me ?
She pray'd for death, you all might see,
Sooner than disobey my will:
As Satan strong her heart doth chill,
To tell her 'tis not my command ;
If pot by words, he so doth stand
Strongly to work upon her heart;
He doth pursue with all his darts,
Which made this woman for to pray,
That I her life would take away,
Sooner than let her to go on
Py any spirit that is wrong,
21
Digitized by Lm
OOQle
Y* seal decrees tint are not mi* e—
And to her prayer I will resign*
She ne'er shall see the following year)
When the old date it doth appear,
To seal what 1 do not command ;
Therefore, let all men silent stand;
If she doth live the end to see,
Let all men know, she w rites by me.
And this to Foley thou sbait send,
And let him judge it in the end.
If thou dost see the following year,
That my command in all is clear:
Or, how thy life shall I prolong,
To do the things to me are wrong ?
Then surely I must be to blame,
And so your Lord you all must shame;
Because this woman you 'must free,
If she be wrong it must fall on me,
To let her see the following year,
And threatened dangers most severe,
If my command she don't obey,
And I her life prolong'd to see,
The day and hour to appear,
By the old style the following year,
To seal decrees that 1 will make,
And words that I shall never break—
If 1 her life do so prolong,
To see the following year to come;
Let all men know the,words are m ike,
That will be spoken at that time."
I am, your’s, &c. &c. Sic.
JOANNA SOUTHCOTT.
Jan. 3,1801.
After this letter was sent to the Rev. T. P. Foley,
January 3; the day following, January 4, I sat
writing, and there came a loud rap on my table;
loud and shrill, which I considered as a token of
my death, and which I felt without the least
terror or dread ; as I do not wish to live one day
longer, if I should be writing from any spirit that
is not of God. J should rejoice at the summons
of death to stop my hand, and leave this world, if
I am deceived, ana deceiving mankind. Is there
any thing hid from the Lord? Will he prolong
my life to deceive men and me? Can I jodge that
I t
I
Digitized by Google
is
God, who in all ages of the world hath taken so
loach pains to convince ipen of errors, shewing
such wondroos works that he did for the children
o f Israel—viz. Daniel in the den of lions; the
three children in the fiery furnace; and the won­
drous deliverance he hath shewed to his people
in all ages—appearing to Moses on Mount Sinai;
and all the promises he hath made throughout the
Bible to them that love and fear him : that he will
never leave them, nor forsake them;nor sufferthem
to be tempted more than they can bear: but with
the temptation will make a way for their escape.
And will he not now make a way for me to escape
by death, if I should be tempted to follow the di­
rections of any spirit, that is not of God ? What
other way can I escape, seeing the Truth of what
I was forewarned of m 17i)2, so plain before my
eyes, when there was no appearance at that time;
when I reflect on the wondrous manner of my life;
the dangers that I have been kept from, which
have been so strongly laid by men and devils;
and the promises then made me, that the Lord
was then withvne, and nothing should harm me?
True have I found his words and promises; and true
have I found the words spoken m the prophecies,
from year to year; then how can I now iudge them
from any Spirit but the God of Truth, that he
will lead me into all truth r If he should now pro­
long my life, I shall believe my writings came from
him, as firmly as my existence is from him, if I
should live to see the 12th day of the month.
Nothing but death can change my faith and be­
lief, that if I am tempted by any wrong spirit,
which is not of God, he will make a way for my
escape by death, that the gates of hell may not
prevail against me. And death I cannot fear; for
I now can appeal to him, that searcheth the heart,
and trieth the reins of the children of men, that
my mind and heart have been to do the will of
Digitized by Google
Cod', as far as I was informed if was his w ill-
end as the truths followed the words, from whence
could I judge them but from the God of Truth
—in whom is both knowledge, wisdom, and
power; wistlom to know, knowledge to foretel,
and power to fulfil ? This hath been the leading
of my faith from strength to strength, from truth
to truth, that I have judged none but a God
could foreknow. Now if this wisdom and power
be given to any spirit which is not of God, I
trust the Lord will pluck me from his hand, as a
brand is plucked from the burning. When I had
written thus far from the feelings of my own
heart, I was ordered to open my Common Prayer
Book, and read the first place on which I cast my
eyes : it was on the 21st of the Singing Psalms—
“ The Kirn;, O Lord, with songs of praise,
“ Shall in thy strength rejoice;
“ With thy salvation crown’d shall raise
“ To heaven his cheerful voice."
Here I was answered again by the Spirit, “ Now,
I will answer thee from the. Psalm. As it was
with the king, so it shall be with thee. But if
any spirit leads thee, that is not of God, thou
must take that Rap as a warning from him ; that
though he doth not speak, he threatens to warn
thee thy end is near,. And as sudden as the
knock came on thy table, so sudden will he
strike thee dead, as thou hast prayed for death.
Thy life will go as sudden, as that stroke came
to thee; therefore, without his words, take the
warning; for none can deliver out of his hand.
The warning is a warning of death to thee, if
any wrong spirit doth lead thee. For, I now
tell thee, the letter is sent that speaketh of thy
death ; and the warning came the following day.
But I now tell thee, thou wilt not die at the end
of this year; but thy life will be a stroke of death
14
Digitized by Google
to thy deadly foe,- and will confound thy enemies.
SoJet Turner write out on the morrow the prayer
o f tby petition thou hast made, and the answer to
i t ; and let the professors of religion judge it here­
after. For, I now tell thee, though the sound came
so hard -on the table where thou wast writing, as
though the.Lord was warning thee, and thou *
presumptuously made that prayer; yet, 1 answer,
it is no token .of death to thee; hut a token of
death to. them, thit wish thy death. For. I have
Jbrdered every way to convince mankind; it is I the
Lord have spoken by thee, to strengthen thy.faith
4o.stand inithe evil day; as I know it is drawing
near to thee.. For, when Satan's decrees are sealed
npi he willpursue thee with all his might 1but a.
n o t; that Psalm shall be thy portion ; for, in thy
weakness, I will be thy strength. And let this be
ns astrength to thee; at' the time thou hast.been
•praying for death, if any spirit that is hot from
the .Lord .hath visited thee, th e ’warning came ias
though he would strike by death, without speak­
ing by words. I.now tell thee, the warning is not
to thee; neither wjl.t thou die at the end of. the
12th day, of January, 1804. AHthis is to strength­
en thy faith,-as 1 know.what thou hast to go
through the following year. And thou sayest in
thy heart;-thou shouldest Wish for death to shun
it, if it were not tor thy friends, leaving them in a
confusion : .but- if thy calling is of God, thou
wouldest sooner go through any sorrow for their
takes, than leave them in distress, before'all mys­
teries are made clear unto them. Now, I tell thee,
this was my love, to mankind, sooner to suffer any
thing for their sakes, ’than give up men a prey to
•The reason assigned to ipe why it was called a pre$vmpkt9*s
prayer was, because I was assured in my own mind, the stroke on
the table was a stroke of death to me, if my culling was not of
God; so it was presumptuous again to pray for death, •.hen I
might have prayed lo be convinced by a latal sickness* . .
* 55
Digitized by Google
Iff
their enemy, the devil. And thou sayest in thy
heart, thy friends must be left in distress, and a
prey to tneir enemies. This I know is true. And
haa I not come to suffer what I did for men, I
must leave them for ever in distress. For, how can
a law maker in honour be a law breaker ? I must
die to fulfil the one, before I can come in justice to
fulfil the other. And nowjustice demands the fulfil­
ment of the Law of God, and the Prophets—that
said, I came not to destrot, but to fulfil And
now I shall come to the feelings of thy heart. I
know thy faith is mixed with fear, there might be
A possibility for thee to be d e ce iv e d an d the
Stroke on the table was a stroke ofdeath unto thee
from die Lord, to warn thee, he would strike, as
thou hadst prayed; but dost thou wish to call back
thy prayer r Thou answerest, no. Then I answer,
by tny own master, thou must now stand, or fall;
for he is thy master whom thou art willing to
obey ; and thy desire is to obey the Lord. Then
if thou hast not obeyed him, thou wilt fall by him;
and if thou hast obeyed him, thou wilt stand by
him ; and he will stand by thee.
“ So let thy pondering thoughts be o’er,
How oft like Peter thou dost fear:
Though thou bast launch’d into the deep,
Yet boisterous waves oft make thee sink.
But let thy sinking fears be o’er;
For I shall bring thee safeon shore,
To meet thy Friends with joy again,
For all to judge it in the end."
This Communication was copied off the fifth of
January; and my life being prolonged, as pro­
mised, I fully obeyed the command, that was given
to me to seal up the lists with the Decrees of the
Lord, fur Christ's Kingdom to be established, and
for Satan’s to be destroyed. The decrees given to
me, by the Spirit, are as follows: I was ordered
to open my Bible; and it was in the 30th chap,
of Proverbs the latter part of the 31st verse I
Digitized by Google
Was ordered to pen *
*A King against whom there
is no rising up.” These words appeared to have no'
meaning to me; and I marvelled at opening to so'
simple a place; but was auswered in the following
manner. ’
“ And now I tell thee, I am the king that net
one shall be able to rise up against: My decrees
are fixed ; my wilt is made; and the word is gone
out of my mouth, that he who exalted himself ifr
heaven against God, and who hath exalted him­
self on earth above the sons of men, saying, that
his power none can destroy; for his power was
equal to mine; and who worked in man to betray
me, to crucify me, and to mock me on the cross,1
thinking his hour would never come; I how say
his hour is come, to know and hear his final doom..
Satan, the great accuser of the brethren, to have
his bounds set the same as the bounds were set for
man. So now, Satan, they are set for thee; the'
lists that shall be sealed up within this paper are
names given for my Kingdom to be established in
righteousness; ana if thou, O Satan, the great
accuser of mankind, pursuest one of them by
temptations; or, workest in others to persecute'
them ; fo that they cannot enjoy my peaceable
Kingdom, as their desire is, thy sentence isfixed, -
as man’s was fixed. For, as Pharaoh was destroy­
ed for pursuing the children of Israel; so shaft-
thou be,destroyed from the face of the earth, and
all thy power taken from thee, as Pharaoh’s power
and crown were taken from him, when he pur­
sued the children of Israel, after the blood had
been sprinkled upon the doors—and now, Satan,
the Seal is the same death unto thee. The word is
gone out of my mouth, that in righteousness I will
rule the nations; and in peace they shall possess
my Kingdom, that I died to.redeem for man. For
I have borne the transgression man cast on me ;
and now, O Satan, is the time come for thee to
d
17
Digitized by Google
IS
bear thine—and thine thou canst not escape any
other way, but by submitting to myju$t decrees.
For, now, unto me shall every knee bow; and I
will be the God of the whole Earth; for, as up
and down this writing must stand, when I come
to make my foes my footstool, so, up and down
shall thy crown and power stand, if tnou puisuest
one that gave their names to me for my Kingdom
to be established, and thy evil power for to bede­
stroyed. Thy power shall fall aown if thou triest
to tempt one of my friends. Now, Satan, look
at the hand thou first betrayedst, when I laid the
foundation of the world, and gave command to
man, that he should not eat the forbidden fruit;
for, in the day he eat thereof he should surely
die. He eat of the tree of knowledge, by thyarte
deceiving the woman, telling her, they snould be
as gods, knowing good from evil. ' And nowthy
lies I will make true; for they shall know good
from evil; though they are now dead to know­
ledge ; for the Jews know not that I died to re­
deem them; neither do the Gentiles know I am
come in the Spirit to visit them, and bring in my
peaceable Kingdom to them. Then what good
from evil do thevknow ? Do not my people perish
for 'Want of knowledge; They are as dead, as I
pronounced them; 'for, I have proved the truth
of my words, by man : they had no knowledge
of me when I came in the body; neither is there
knowledge of me now in man, to know 1 am
come in the Spirit, to visit and redeem my people.
This have mankind proved, by their unbelief they
’are ignorant of; and they that do believe, it isby
faith, but not by knowledge that tliey have
discerned these things. For, I have kept, my
word with man, and spared not the works of m
y
hands; and the curse hath been laid oa the
ground. Man hath felt the curse pronouncedup-
on him—and the woman in sorrow hath brought.
Digitized by Google
forth her children. Then now, O Satan, hear thy
doom —if I spared not man. that I created, I will
n o t spare thee, that hath rebelled against me in
heaven, and hath worked in man to rebel against
3te here on earth. The same hand thou temptedst
to break my command, that is, I mean the wo­
man’s hand, shall now seal thy final doom, if ever
thou temptest one whose names are sealed up in
the lists, that shall be sealed within this paper;
and she shall give the paper to man, to do the
same; and so their hands shall join together to
bruise thy head; and bring the curse 1 pronounced
cm thee, when thou didst betray the woman at
flrst.—
, “ I said her seed on thee should burst,
With enmity that should appear;
And now the enmity is clear
Between the woman's seed and thine:
For, man hath freely told his mind,
What enmity in him is plac’d ;
To hear the serpent must be cast
By the same hand that he betray’d ;
But justice sow is on thy head;
For, so I pass’d thy final doom;
Because by arts tbou didst assume /
The woman’s ignorance to betray:
And now her hand on thee doth lay,
To seal thy final doom the same.
Thou’st heard these threatening} often come-*
Because that I have warn’d thee long; \
But to the purpose now 1*11 come;
Because together both will join,
The man and woman now combine,
To seal the doom I pass’d on thee.
Satan! thou never shalt get free;
Because I kept my word with man,
And now with thee’t shalt ever stand*-*
To be chained down in the bottomless pit, if ever
thou temptest one, whose names are entered in the
lists now sealed up.”
This is only part of’the decrees, as all was not
copiedoff. The listsweresealed up with threeseals,
19
Digitized by Google
and with words as afore-mentioned, on the 12th
day of January, 1804 ;x
my Seal being in the mid­
dle, and the Seal of the Lion on each side, put by
men ; the evening Psalms for the day of the
month were ordered to be read, with prayers; and
men proposed singing; so the Hundredth Psalm
with suitable Hymns were sung. I then felt the
load, which had pressed hard upon me before, fall
off and a heavenly joy seized my soul. The
following day I was answered-*-'4As thou hast
fully obeyed my commands in every thing, as I
commanded, thee, I will never go from the words
that are signed and sealed; and man shall bear
witness to the truth; as they bore witness to the
seals : for, as man sealed my tomb, so have they
now sealed Satan’s doom. And now I shall come
to reason with men, that have eyes and see n o t;
ears, and hear not: hearts, but understand n o t;
neither can they speak through their throats, ta
answer m e , in the volume of this book.—For, I
shall call them back to the beginning: in 1792,
after I had visited thee by day and by night, of
what was coming upon the whole Earth, and thou
inquiredst where all would end, the sound of An­
gels was singing in thy ears—
“ Saints shall see it and rejoice ;
Hell shall tremble at my voice/'
The same year when thou hcardcst the blasphe­
my of Satan, and wast in prayer, that I would
cut short his power, I said, I would shew thee in
a dream what I would do with him ; and- then
thou heardest the yawning of cats. I then
told thee it was like the yawnings of hell, when
Satan wgs chained down ; then thou fell’st asleep,
and heard the heavenly music sound in thy ears ;
and a pig led in tied with a cord round his mouth,
and breathing out thceateuings against thee, but
could not hurt thee. This heavenly music thou
20
Digitized by Google
heartiest twice, and the pig led in the same. I then'
tpld thee the pig was the devil: for as he entered
into the herd of swine; so I brought him before
thee in that form. The same year,, in the night,
thou heardest the rough voices in the street dispu­
ting—“ You cannot do-it,” said one; “ Cant I?”
says another; “ I'll try ;” “ Exert your power
then,” said another. Thou saidst to thyself, wha.
are these men so harshly disputing about ? I then
apswered thee, it was not men; it was the devils,
that were disputing how they should make thee
give pp thy writings. Cut I told thee, fear not,
for I should'be with thee.”
Now, as the world may not understand the Spi­
rit speaking in this manner, to call all things to
my remembrance, and repeating the past to bring
it to the present, I shall now speak from.myself in
what manner this .hath happened. After hearing'
the voices in the streets, and being told it was the
devils, my fears alarmed m e; and the promises
given to me, that the Lord would be with me,
and nothing should hurt me; soon after a voice
came-to my bedside, and threatened my life, if
I did not give up my writings; to which I firm­
ly answered, I would not. After a long dispute,
1 said, Satan, why is thy malice so kindled
against me ? He made answer, because thou laugh-
est at my threatenings, despisest my words, and
mockest me to my face. In this manner I heard
his voice three nights following. I was then or­
dered to write it out; and was then answered, as
loud as the voice of Satan was heard in the night
to me; so loud will the voice of the Lord be heard
in the land, when he comes to shake terribly the
earth, and to chain down the powers of darkness.
, Cut, qs Satan said his malice was kindled against
me, for laughing at his threatenings, despising his
word?, and mocking him to his face; so will the
anger of the Lord be kindled against the nations;
1
21
Digitized by Google
because they laughed at the threatening*, mocked
the warnings, and paid no regard to all that was
said. This was in 1792, when I was visited of what
was coming ou the earth to man, I was warned of
Satan’s destruction also.?—
“ In 1794, thou asked Satan’s destruction in
prayer, when I promised to give thee thy petition,
M'hich was Satan’s destruction. Soon after I shewed
thee in a dream of a pig being dipt in the boiling
furnace, tied up in the middle, and brought in
upon a pole by two men, which I then told thee
was a type of the devil; for, by the pole of the
Gospel he must come down. Another dream, that
thou thoughtest tbou wast fighting with him, till
thou pulledst the skin from off his face. Another
dream thou hadst of fighting with him, and of
putting his fingers in thy mouth, and thou didst
bite them off, and said the blood was sweet, as it
was thy revenge over hiin. These things, with
many more, were-in years tliat die past; but
now I shall come to the present, of the new cen­
tury; in >802, I ordered thee to contend with
him ; and if thou stoodest out with argument; and
by strong faith in Christ the seven days, thou
shorrtdest stand, and Sataw fall. Thou stoodest
out, trusting in me in faith; and Satan said.he
would stand or fall by election, as a member of
parliament,- I then held him- to his word, and or­
dered'tire Sealing to appear, to- try the votes; and
now the fists are sealed up of my votes ; and
“ there shall liis proud waves be stayed.” For now*
it is too hate for him- to claim the kingdom; the
day is ended ;•the lists are signed and sealed ; and
pbt one list hath man brought for him; so he
js cast without a man to vote for his reign. And
this F told thee in-179^ when his destruction was
sealed up, he would not find so great a friend for
hhii, as- Pilate \vas; for me. And now I have
shewed how this began- in 1793, and- how it hath
22
i
Digitized by Google
gone on from year to year, and how it is sealed
u p in 1804; and now I shall shew how the sha­
dows began by man; and how the substance shall
end by me, the King of kings and-Lord of lords.
T he shad&w began by man, when they sealed up
Satan’s doom; but the substance will end by
saints and angels joining with men, when I come
to fulfil my word. The type of the devil was then,
brought in bound by men, and breathing out
threatenings against thee ; and the heavenly mu­
sic began by the singing of men; for- it was I
that worked in their hearts to propose singings
to fulfil the shadow of the dream. This is the
shadow of the first binding by men; but tbe sub­
stance will be at the second binding, when I come
to bind him down; then will the heavenly music
sound aloud in every ear—
{Saints and angels will
then join; earth and heaven will sound aloud in
heavenly music ; and all the people that are left
upon the earth will sing to the Lord with cheer­
ful voice, when I come to fulfil the Bond, that I
have first; made by men on earth—and it must be
first bound on earth, before it can be accomplished
in heaven, to make my Bible true—and this began
with singing by man here on earth ; and it snail
be fulfilled by saints in heaven, and by men on
earth. For, as loud as Satan’s voice was heard
by thee in the night, in 17.92, so loud will my
voice be heard in every land, when I come to chain
him down. Therefore I said unto thee, when I
first came to visit thee, thou shouldest prophesy in
my Name, and I would bear, thee witness—
' that the voice of the Lord would shake terribly
the earth—and terribly I shall shake it; for the
pillars .of the. heavens will be shaken, and the
foundation of the earth will tremble, that no man
could bear it, were they not warned of it before;
and their hearts prepared to long for the time—
For the heavens will seeni to pass away with
83
Digitized by Google
a great noise, and the firmament melt with fervent
heat, when I come in the heat of my fury, to chain
down Satan, and destroy those that mock my
coming, and despise my words, and laugh at my
threatenings, ami that will not obey my commands.
—But all tjieir care is to know what man saith ;
but how feu'inquire to know what the Lord saith?
or what he hath spoken concerning them ? But
those who inquire to know what the Lord saith,
and what I have spoken concerning them, shall
be mine in the day when I make up my jewels;
but they that mock the coming of the Lord, shall
find my anger to burn like an oven—and who can
abide it, that now cannot bear it? I have shewed
you plain, the night is far spent; the day is at
hand. Prom the shadows that are past, judge
what is to come: Mark the petition that was asked;
the promise that was given for Satan’s destruction;
and his destruction I will give thee; for as the
pig was tied up in the middle, and cast into the
furnace, so is Satan cast into the furnace of my
fury, by my words, and by my promises, if he
break my bonds'—and thy seal standeth in the
middle, and the seal of man on each side—
“ And as he’s seal'd, he now shall fall;
The gulph is fix'd, I tell you all."
Last year fifty-eight signed their names to have
the woman freed; and now there are eight thou­
sand one hundred and forty-four, whose names
stand for Satan’s destruction, besides those who
are blotted out; and some lists are not yet gathered
in. This I have ordered to be done, to shew
mankind how it began in 1792 ; and how thou
hast been led on to this day ; and how the lists
were sealed up at the end of the 12th year of thy
visitation: and let them compare it with the 12th
chapter of tlje Revelation.
*
24
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
Mow let tnen answer me,
That eyes have got, and cannot see
This calling for to be of God;
I bid them answer in a word,
What footsteps in it they do trace.
To bring such marvellous things to pass,
As first appeared in ninety-two;
Now bring the truth before your view,
Is in such wondrous way come round,
To prove the likeness now is found;
For saints to see, and to rejoice,
And hell to tremble at ray voice;
As by the bond that 1 have made,
For Satan’s doom therein is laid,
I say to make him tremble there,
If he, like Pharaoh, doth not fear, '
My sealed people to pursue; 1
As I have said, I’ll surely'do*
For all the earth shall now know mb,
And to my sceptre every knee,
I plainly tell you all, shall bow;
So men and devils tremble now;
For I shall make a final end,
And every knee to me shall bend;
For all the earth shall know the Lord,
As thou hast seal’d my written word;
Because the words I say are mine:
The heavenly music men shall find;
Because the shadow did begin,
When first my word was seal’d by man;'
And so the substance shall appear
The second time; I tell you here,
That I the tempter strong shall bind,
'And he his fatal doom shall find;
I’ll bind him to his final den,
And put the seals as put by men;
Because that way they seal’d my tomb,
And so they’ve seal’d the tempter’s doom,
And I shall come to seal him down ;
The second time will sure be found,
When men and angels wilt agree,
To sing in triumph then with mb.
Mow mark the footsteps that are here,
And then the steps you may see clear,
< It is the footsteps of your Lord,
That in all ages you have heard,
From simple shadows first begun,
And strange my work I’ve carried on—
. B
Digitized by Google
And strange to you this may appear r
But all will fipd my footsteps here;
As it with IVfoses did begin,
When in the huUrush he was seen,
And Pharaoh's daughter him preserv'dr
And said a nurse for him she’d have \
And so the sipter did appear,
Offer’d to call a nurpe wasnear;
And then the mother nurs’d the child,
And Pharaoh's daughter she was foil'd ;
And so he foil’d them in the end—
Mark every step, how this did bend:
The Hebrew children they had slain.
By Pharaoh’s bloody, cruel hand \
Till Mo9ep ip the hush, you see,
Was hid from man, and found by she;
By Pharaoh's daughter I do mean,
And to his mother turn'd again;
Though he was put from her at first,
And so the end to them did burst;
For, he at first did go from all,
When to his brethren he did call,
Their anger for to reconcile;
But mark how soon they did him foil:—
The Egyptian thou didst kill before,
And wilt thou now to us appear,
7o nlurder us, they said, the same ?
And so the flight of Moses came, '
The second time to flee for life,
Till I appear'd to end the strife,
( And unto Moses did appear,
As in the bush they hid him there.
And ip thp bush to him I came—
The shadows first you don't dikern,
That back to Pharaoh he must go,
For to avenge his brethren’s foe,
And slay the Egyptians as at first—
You ne’er discern how things are plac'd;
Nor how the shadows first appear,
Before I bring the substance near.
The bullrush was a bush for man,
Wherein the child was hid by them ;
And from that bush he did return
Unto his mother's arms again;
And when to Pharaoh he did go,
Tht shadow next let all men know,
As the Egyptian he did k ill: -
But mark the end, a shadow still; #
How the Egyptians .they were can
By Moses* hand I >ay at last;
Digitized by Google
-And in the end what did appear—*
You know how Israel murmur'd there,
When I had freed them by his hand—
Mark every shadow how they stand, .
And then the substance you may see.
How from the shadows things will be*
But here of Moses I will end.
And come to what I now intend,
* To bring the shadows all the same, *
That men may know my every Name*
The shadow first it did appear,
As in the woman you see clear :
For there the serpent first wafs cast—
And so the end to him ittust burst;
For then I said I'd bruise his hfead,
As he the woman had betray'd—
And from the shadow I shall come ;
They all must first begin by man;
And so .with man they did appear:
Esther her people she did clear;
And Judith did his head cut off—
Have wisdom, man; I’ve said enough ;
The woman nail'd him to the ground,
And so your enemy was found,
Slain by the woman’s powerful hand.
These are but shadows you command ;
Because the substance it must appear.—>
Thou say'st I died the whole to clear ;
Then of the woman I was bom,
A mystery deep do none discern;
I said they must be bora again;
If they my kingdom would obtain,
They must be of the Spirit born 2
But where's the man doth now discern,
That they must all be bom anew?
For to believe my Spirit true,
If they my kingdom will obtain,
That 1 am bringing down to men?
And mark the shadow of the first,
As it to Moaes now was plac'd;
For so the shadow did begin,
1 telj you all* ye simple men;
The woman did dispute at first,
And so the .end to all is plac'd :
Because the end you a|l may see,
How Satan strong disput’d with she;
In the beginning it did appear, .
When 1 came strong to visit her, .
* 7 . . .
Digitized by Google
I tell you all, in ninety-two—
Bring all the past before your view,
•How she with courage him withstood,
And cast his guilt upon his head ;
And told him then what he had done,
To bring his fatal ruin on ;
And how my love did strong appear,
To die her every guilt to clear.
And so her love was plac’d on m s,
As I did die her guilt to free,
And make men happy in the end ;
She judg'd me as a faithful friend*
And now a faithful friend I'll be,
And that her friends shall know and see;
For now I'll be a friend to all,
That don't refuse this heavenly call
For here my footsteps I've made plain—
Now, answer me, ye sons of men,
And land your thoughts to ninety-two,
And bring the past before your view;
If you believe a woman's hand
Could in such order ever stand,
To bring such wondrous mysteries round,
Without the Lord was in the sound ?
Or would I spare her life so long,
To shew such perfect line to man ;
And say her calling was from me,
That 1 am come mankind to free i
And now to seal it in my Nome,
I am come to put my foe to shame;
And unto Satan fix a Bound,
As in the Revelation’s found.
Jde was to know his time was short,
And now she 'th fix'd it to bis hurt,
To let him know his final doom,
To perish in the sinners' room: *
If he goes on to tempt these men,
That she hath seal'd for to redeem ;
She tells yqu all, by my command,
That she hath seal'd it by her band ;
Then to her hand I must appear,
And prove that my command was there,
For to fulfil her every Word.
Now tell me how you judge your God*
If you do judge he is not here ?
1 bid you to discern her prayer;
Or the petition she did make,
When Satan’s arts on her did break,
28
Digitized by Google
To say the calling was not mint—
She pray'd her life for to resign, '
Before the awful hour came, <,
That she must,seal up Satan'* doom; •
With the decrees that I should make:
She pray'd that I her life would take, .
Sooner than let her see the time,
To seal decrees that were not mine. .
And when ray answer she did bean,
That I her life would never spare,if'
To see the hour, nor the tune,
To seal decrees that were not mine;
Then Satan strong did her pursue,
And said my voice she did not know;
For I had never spoke at,all,
And from one spirit all did fall;
And then I shock'd her with surprise
By the loud knock to make her wise,
That on her table did appear;
She then again renew'd her prayer,
And said within, that she should die:
And to the summons would comply,
Sooner than disobey my will, .
If any spirit did her dll
With wprds of knowledge were not mine.
Her life she wish'd for to resign,
And never see the following year;
So boldly she renew'd her prayer,
And said, if she the year did see,
She should believe'she wrote by me,
That is the Maker of you all;
And then she would obey my call;
Whatever words did then appear,
She judg'd from God they surely were,
And thp command she would obey,
Whatever command was given she;
Because from me it must appear,
If I her life did longer spare.
And mark the answer that did come;
I said hpr life 1 should prolong,
To live to strike her deadly foe,
The stroke of death on him should go;
And so she's placed the stroke of death,
So perfect as the Spirit saith,
And as be told her at that time.
Now can you judge your God divine,
And judge this calling is not mine ?
Then sure divine I cannot be,
fJ’Jie end of all things for to see
89
Digitized by Google
so
And every thing for to foreknow,
If any spirit I'd iet go,
To act so marvellous in my Name.
No, no, your God you all must blame,
As I shall blame the soanrof men,
That now the woman do condemn. *
Why had you not done this before f
How oft she’th ask’d your counsel there,
And you an answer would not give;
Nor told her once she was deceiv'd;
But let the woman still go on,
Till to your shame* your answer came—
My Sacrament for to refuse f
And so my ftiends you now abuse,
To keep my Supper from them all,
When for your answer man did call;
And just the same, men now judge MU
Another such as man to be;
Like the Archdeacon to appear,
And silence keep to all thy prayers:
And still permit them to go on,
Till the petition came by man ;
And then tbeir love for to refuse,
And then the woman to abuse;
And so you judge mb just like man,
Another such as he become;
But they shall know there is a God;
So let them fear or feel my R od;
Because my Rod it shall appear
To all such faithless shepherds here,
And they shall find 1 am not like man.
For now to reason 1 shall com e:
The end of all things I do know,
From whence all spirits they do flow;
And how they ail would lead you on,
I well do know before they come,
And what effect would be the end;
And now like M—— shall I descend,
To tell you all when 'tis too late,
The door against you't must be shut f
For I shall never answer here, *
As she bath told you by her prayer;
• The above alludes to the'Rev. Archdeacon M----- . at Exeter, to whomfl
have been writing from 1790 t6 the year 1800.—He never once saw me; nor
told me that I was misled, till be was now applied to, to suffer the sacrament on
the last new year’s day to be administered iu his son’s parish to the scaled peo­
ple, which he refused, saying, ” the whole was an imposition;” and would not
g*sut leave.
Digitized by L i O O Q i e
And to like man you all judge ms ;
A sinful God is judg'd by y e ;
As they were judg'd but sinful men,
When they condemn'd thy written band,
And said, absurd the things must be,
To think that God vfould send to them;
Or, e'er direct thee there to write,
As aD were sinful in my sight;
As there was not a righteous man,
That's dignified was judg'd by them.
And now the same they all judge m i ;
To be another such as they,
Whom man condemn'd so great before;
Because that 1 must act like they,
If 1 deceive thy friends and thee. .
And in thy heart thou say'st v
tis true.
That now like man I sure must do;
First^ to be silent to thy prayer,
And let the truth in all be clear,
And when too late I must condemn;
Perfect to act like sinful man:
And to thy thoughts 1*11 answer here,
That worse than man I must appear,
If I go on to act like they:
It never will be done by is .* 1
Now I shall explain the meaning of judging
the Lord like simple men. It w;as explained .from
a man’s words at Stockton-upon-Tees, who said,
it was absurd to believe my calling was of God,
and that he should direct me to write to such
wicked men as the church ministers; for they were
all wicked men. But being reproved by some of
the company, for his harsh judgment* he said, he
knew there was not a good dignified man in the
church: bishops, deans, chancellors, and archdea­
cons, were all sinful men. To his wprds I was an­
swered—As all these titles had kept silence to my
letters; it was said to me, they must judge God
another such as these men, whom they judged
sinful men; to keep silence to all my prayers; and
never convinced me, if I was wrong, as they never
once told me that I waswrong, butsuffered me togo­
on, when I appealed to them for their judgments;
and when I offered to give up my writings, before
31
Digitized by Google
they were put into print, if they could prone them
to proceed from the devil; and the same offer
was made to the Bishop of Exeter, (Courtney) in
the Christmas 1801, by the hands of the three
clergymen, who waited upon the Bishop with a
letter from Mrs. Southcott to that purpose—but
he declined giving himself the trouole to search
into the truth; and left the matter to rise or fall,
according to the strength of its own foundation.
And do men think the Lord is another such as
man, to pay np regard to his creatures, if they cry
night and day unto him ? Will he give knowledge
and power to the devil to deceive them ? Far be
it from the Lord. But all this of the ministers
was foretold me in the beginning; therefore it was
said judgments would beginat the house of God;
because the Shepherds did not regard their sheep.
And this you will see explained m many of my
books.
And now I shall give an explanation that was
given to me in answer to another minister, who
forbid one of his hearers coming to his Meeting;
because he believed' in the second cbming of
Christ in Spirit to establish his Kingdom of Peace
upon'earth; and that it was approaching; and
which he said was the bane of the Gospel. And
to his words I was answered, that the minister was
acting contrary to the Gospel.
“ And from my Gospel willI condemn him, asan
hireling that careth not for the.sheep. Wherein
my Gospel did I commend such shepherds? But
now I will tell thee where I condemned them—
and
out of his own mouth will I condemn him. For
he hath not fed my sheep; but hath driven him
away. What did I say to Peter ? Simon, sonof
Jonas, lovest thou m e r He answered, Thou know-
est all things, and know that I love thee.—Then
feed my sheep, feed my lambs, was my command.
32
Digitized by L a O O Q i e
than him, ■whom he hath driven away; for I.have
tried him by afflictions to prove him, and I know
the man. And he that despiseth my sheep, de-
apiseth me a lso fo r he despiseth my Spirit of
•.Prophecy—doing despite to the Spirit of God,
saying, he wants not the knowledge of the Most
.High; despising Prophecies, which my Apostle
commanded them not to do; quenching my Spi­
rit, that they ought to embrace; refusing to prove
the things, they ought to try and prove, that they
might be clear in judging, to shew their strong
.reasons when they condemn. But here they have
discerned a mote in their brother’s eye, forgetting
the beam which is in their own: by exercising
themselves in things that are too high for them ;
and thinking more highly of themselves, than they
ought to think; without love, without charity, or
without brotherly kindness. A good shepherd will
restore a lost sh e e p if he judge him wandering
from his fold, he will shew his love in trying to
bring him back; he -will pity the afflicted; visit
the sick; and pour oil into the wound of his
afflicted.brother. This was the command that I
gave to my disciples, “ to love one another.” Now,
how will he prove my Spirit was in him ? For was
I to deal with all mankind, as he hath dealt with
his hearer—forsake them in afflictions, and turn
them from me, when in all things they did not
join with me, who then could be saved ? AJ1 flesh
must perish, if I was to deal with man, as he hath
done. Then know it is written, without they have
the Spirit of Christ, they are none of his. Then
will he prove he hath acted in my Spirit ? If so,
he must pervert all my Gospel; all my Bible; and
instead of calling me the Saviour of mankind, he
gtust say I came to condemn mankind ; instead
of coming to seek and to save, I must come to
destroy, and enter into strict judgment with man.
Who then shall stand before me, if I was t< act
F
83
Digitized by Google
as he hath done ? Forsake them m afflictions—as
this man was afflicted, which I sent for a justifica­
tion of him; as a trial of his faith and patience.
If I leave men when tempted, I jnust give place to
the devil: as this preacner would give Satan the
advantage over his hearers, if my eye was not ovef
them, to guide, and keep them in the trying hour.
So he that said, he did not suffer persecution, like
' other believers, that wished my Kingdom approach­
ing, is now come in the common lot with his
brethren; and this I told thee, they had all the
fiery trial to pass through; some one way, and
some another. For, if ye are without chastise­
ment, wherewith all are partakers, then are ye
bastards, and not sons. For he that loveth me,
and wishes for me to reign alone, without a rival
between, must bear the reproach of Satan's malice,
that is now come down in great w'rath, because
he knoweth he hath but a short space. So let my
friends rejoice and be glad, to bear reproach for
my sake, and have their names cast out as evil by
men, which the Scriptures must prove have none
of my Spirit within them: but see a mote in theif
brother’s eye, forgetting the beam which is in their
own. And such shepherds I said there would be:
hirelings that cared not for the sheep. But I was
the good shepherd that cared for my sheep; and
was I not to come in the Spirit, to lead my sheep
in the right way, both sheep and shepherds must
fall into the ditch together. For who discerns the
times, or the seasons ? Or, marks the standard of
my Gospel? If they say false prophets, or false
Christs have arisen (as some have appeared •)
ought they not to warn their flock, that these were
the signs of my coming ? And I said in my Gos-•
• There are four, who have written to me, that they are the
Christs--and every man makes himself a prophet, who says, he
knows the things will not come to pass; for no man can tell of
feiuuelf what the Lord will do on tho earth.
94
Digitized by Google
pel, that offences would be given against my be­
lievers : but woe to the land, because of offences.
But I said, they must first come; but they that
offended the least of these my disciples, offended
XE. Did 1 not command men to be looking for
my coming, lest I came upon them unaware ?
Did I not tell them the signs of the times, from
the parable of the fig-tree ? That when the green
leaves begin to appear, ye know that the summer
■
is nigh at hand; so when ye see all these things
to appear, know that my Kingdom is nigh at hand,
and that your redemption draweth near. Now,
how are men perverting my Gospel, by turning
my people out of the way, by darkening the eyes
of their understanding, and not enlightening
them! Then will not the Lord of his vinevard
some in a day they little think of, and in an hour
unaware ? But how then will such shepherds
stand, when I demand my flock from them ?
What answer can they give? But say, “ We
judged thee an hard Master, gathering where thou
hast not strewn; and reaping where thou hast
not sown; therefore we hid all thy words: And
Ve must confess, here they stand on record, as
thou- gavest them; for we have not improved
them, to gain any wisdom or knowledge thereby;
or give warning to the hearers :■
All to us have
been hid in a napkin; for we judged thou wast
gathering believers, where thou hast not strewn
the way for them; and reaping their labour of
love, where no seed of thy word was sown; there­
fore we have buried it down. Then how will they
hear my answer ? If I am gathering where I have
not strewn, and reaping where Jl have not sown-;
then they ought to put my 'words to usury,
and have made an increase of faith thereby, and
' gain other talents. For, the meaning of the
parable is this: My word left on record, is distri­
buting the talents amongst mankind ; the one is
$5
Digitized by Google
the word given; the spirit of wisdom is another;
discerning of spirits is another. These are diffe­
rent talents given to men, which they ought all
to improve. As a husbandman improves the signs
of the weather for seed-time and harvest;. so
ought all men to improve the times and seasons
of my words, that are left on record : and as the
green leaves shew the husbandman the summer is
nigh; so the signs that I have fixed, ought to
shew men the signs of my coming. And these
talents are given to men to profit thereby; but
how are these talents hid in the earth r Who
improves my word? the times, or the seasons, that
I bid them to mark ? Is not all as though bid in
a napkin ? And my Bible as though buried down?
Do not men improve their own wisdom ? But who
amongst them improve my Bible, that have no
other talent than my word that is left on record ?
But where there are two talents, Faith given with
my Word, they improve it, and gain other talents
thereby : they add to their faith virtue; to virtue
brotherly kindness; to brotherly kindness charity;
and charity believeth all things; charity hopeth
all things; charity endureth all things ; and can­
not easily be provoked to deny the promises the
Lord hath made. So where Faith is added to
my Word, they will gain other talents thereby;
and to increase in faith, knowledge, and truth,
till they enter into the joy of their Lord, as good
and faithful servants, and become labourers in the
Lord’s vineyard, and improve their Lord’s words,
that he left on record. They will be faithful
in a few things; and I will make them rulers
in many things; thus will two talents gain
other two-. But now I shall come to Five Talents.
There must be a talent of grace, a talent of faith,
a talent of wisdom, a talent of prophecies, and a
talent of discerning my words ; and these talents
xnusf be improved—by faith, by grace, by wisdom,
36
Digitized by Google
by the prophecies made known to the sons of
m en; that all men may know the time is at hand,
that I am coming to reckon with my servants, and
know how they have improved their talents, and '
how they have improved my Gospel. For, let it
be known unto all men, these talents were to be
answered, and accounted for, at my coming: and
all these talents stand on record, that they should
be given to the children of men: and know, I
said, I came not to destroy the law of God or the
prophets; but to fulfil them. And now mark
what the prophet saith—“ Surely the Lord God
will do nothing, but he will reveal it to his servants
the prophets.” “ Is there evil in the city, and the
Lord hath not done it ? Is the trumpet blown,
and the voice not heard ? Doth the lion roar, and
the people tiot be afraid ? The trumpet is blown,
who can but hear ? The lion roars, who can but
fear ? For evil is in the city, and profaneness in
the mouths of the shepherds, to turn the righteous
out of the way, and be a stumbling-block to my
people Israel, that, they may not be able to stand
in the day of battle.” For now is coming the ful­
filment of the prophecies of Joel: I am pouring
out my Spirit on my sons, and on my handmaids,
and they are prophesying : signs and visions have
appeared ; distresses and perplexities are hastening1
on. Now, seethe Law and the Gospel together:
for the wicked are caught in their own craftiness;
and it is I the Lord hath done i t : out of their
own mouths will I condemn the shepherds for
perverting my Gospel.—But now I shall come to
my servants, who have improved their talents—by
faith, and by wisdom, and by discerning the
spirit).
So onto all I loud do call,
To gi*e account to me,
I low they the talents prov’d them all
And now the one, 1 see,
57
Digitized by Google
Hath in a napkin hid my word,
And all was buried down:
He judg'd me a? an austere God,
Wherein no truth is found ;
Or, cruelty must be in me,
My servants to deceive;
And judge that I should act like he,
And now my followers leave.
So from his hand will 1 condemn,
And call him to account,
If I am come an austere man,
How will he now surmount,
To answer here, when I appear,
To have my just demand ?
The talents I have given him here,
And put into his hand:
My sheep to lead, a9 he hath said,
And gave them to his care;
And ask him, how all they were fed,
What answer shall I hear ?
“ I did not feed," as thou hast said;
4
4 But turn’d my flock away;
a And tried thy Gospel for to hide,
4
4 And to my sheep did say,
4
4That thou wast come an austere man:
4
4 Where thou didst never sow,
“ Thou'rt reaping labours now of man,
4
4That strong their love do shew
“ To have thee come their Lord and King,
1
4 And cut thy rival down: .
4
4 This is thy harvest judg'd by them ;
4
4 For so thy words are found—
4
4 A-strew'd this way, as they do say,
4
4And so they gather here,
4
4 That thou'st come the whole to claim,
4
4 And make thy Bible clear,
4
4 Which I did say, another, way,
4
4Thou never sow'd it so,
4
4 To have thy kingdom come this way,
4
4 Though scattered 'tis, I know,
4
4Throughout thy word, as they have said,
4
4 What men do gather here.
4
4 But in a napkin it is hid,
4
4 1 could not see it clear;
4
4 So I went on to bury down,
“ And turn'd my flock away ;
4
4 And judg'd thee as an austere map,
4
4To lead thy flock astray."
38
Digitized by Google
This roust be done, I say, by biro,
Such answer I must have:
For when toy Gospel I demand,
No other can he give,
But say ’twas hid, as I have said j
He did not understand, .
That different talents must be given,
When I the whole demand:
For to appear and make all clear,
To claim this earth my own—
(M y Bible it is buried down,)
Then I must answer man—
Out of your mouth will I condemn,
And bring your (lock to me,
That I have given to your hand :
And your own words now see,
How you my Gospel did pervert,
To have it buried down:
You only teach men to their hurt,
If 1 cannot be found
A faithful God, as 1 have said,
Ahd faithful to the end,
For to fulfil my every Word.—
And now come to my Friends; '
I'll next appear to ask them here,
That Talents now have two ;
If they can't see my Bible clear,
That I these things shall do;
For to make good what I have said,
And so to come again,
My every foe for to strike dead,
And with my friends to reign ?
In glory here 1 must appear,
To make my Gospel true;
And Satan must begin to fear,
That be shall feel his doom;
To bear his curse with all the rest,
The root must be cut down.
Men make my Bible but a jest,
And cannot judge the sound :
An austere man 1 must become,
And judged by your word
Bring all the martyrs that have been ;
And view your bleeding Lord;
Can this be done, ye sons of men,
And Satan to get free ?
Then I must love to punish man,
And hell in triumph see ;
.My blood was shed, and roan so led
Digitized by Google
To die for me the same:
Forget the promises that stood,
How Satan's doom must come.
A h ! simple men, your thoughts are vain9
Your God you do not know:
I ne'er design'd for hell to reign,
And Satan triumph so—
1 could not save this side the grave,
That did the earth create:
Then tell me why my blood was shed,
If Satan miis his fate;
Then here, my friends, they may contend;
• For I'll contend with a ll;
And as man's blame on me was laid,
Satan shall And bis doom.
1 tell you here I've made it clear,
And so I shall go on;
Though men my .Bible hide it here,
The Talents five shall come:
Faith shall abound in every sound,
And men the Truth shall see;
The Prophecies, that here are found,
Are talents given by me ;
The Wisdom here to see them clear,
Are talents from on high,
For to discern how I do warn,
And how my Bible stands;
These all are talents from on high,
That men did ne'er command ;
So Grace must come, I say, to man,
For it shall now abound:
Like trembling gaolers I’ll make men,
To tremble at the sound,
That now stand out, so full of doubt;
For fast shall all cottye on,
Till men I see do flock to me,
Like deves to windows come.
But here within thou dost begin
To ask, how this can be ?
For doves to windows do not come;
Then how can sinners flee
To me the same, thou say'st, to come ?
I'll answer in a word—
The Dove to Noah did return,
When I abat'd the Flood :
So men will flee the same to me,
When I the Floods abate:
Butin the tumult cannot be,
Whendangers are too great;
40
Digitized by Google
Because my fury will go oo,
As thou the wind dost hear;*
This is the night now plac'd hy man*
My Birth for to appear: ,
The wind is high, is now thy cry,
And high it shall all come on ;
If I was bom for man to die, '
Til make my Death be known:
It was to clear my Father here
In justice to proceed;
As I the guilt for man did bear,
To bruise the serpent's head. '
No other way, t? man I say,
I ever can atone,
To wash the guilt of man away,
And claim this earth my own.
If it could be done by your plan,
The Jews would ne'er stood ou t;
If at my Death I'd rescued man,
I ask, why men do doubt ?
A h ! simple men, your thoughts are vain,
To say you trust in mk,
As in my Gospel it is penn'J ;
Then now my Gospel see:
The Lamb of God, it there is said,
AH sins must take away;
Then how da you my Gospel plead,
If you these things deny ?
Your talent One must soon be gone,
And added to the five,
That do allow 1 died for man,
And will not man deceive:
That now improve in perfect love,
And see my Bible clear,
Their talents five, shall soon be ten,
j And know I've spoken here.
So faithful labourers now must come,
And in my vineyard g o :
My harvest fast is hastening on,
That every soul shall know.
So now improve, and see my love,
And see my Bible dear:
A talent One can never stand;
Because they hide it here:
As in a napkin it was plac’d,
And so they've hid the. whole :
But ne'er discern'd, ye fallen race,
* Christmas-av*. withhigh Wind.
Q
41
Digitized by Google
' I died for Adam’s Fall.* *
Then from the Fall, I tell you ail*
My heel must bruise bis head:
And so to conquer death and hcH,
And reign in Sataa’s stead.
Then sure iu ONE I must begin, .
As he began at first;
But when my Power to all is come,w *
Then Satan’s power must burst— .
And break from all, when I do call *
To have my chosen come,
. And hear the clamour then of all .
Their foe for to condemn.
So here are the talents for you all,
If them you’ll now improve,
It is to free you from the Fall;
And shew roy dying love.
But he that looks unto my Death,
And can no further see,
Hath hid his talent in the earth,
And thus may answer mb :
4An austere man thou must become
1To call men at thy bar,
1And all the world for to condemn
- ‘ Before'thou’st made it clear;
4For Jews to see, as well as we,
4Was promis'd at the first;
4 Thy seed was never sown that way.—
My answer then must burst:
4 If it be not sown, to mb ’tis known,
4You ought for to improve,
* And prove my Gospel plain is come,
4 For them to 6ee my love;
4That from the fall was first the call,
4And how the promise stood ;
4 My heel must first be bruis’d for all, *
4 To bruise the serpent's head;
4That increase here might now appear,
4 My Gospel to increase;
4That all may see their Bibles clear,.
4 1 am the Prince of Peace, '
4 Who gave my word upon record,
4As talents left for a ll: *
4 But where’s but one, I see they're coma
4 To perish in the Fall." *
This was written on Christmas Eve, 1805, who
the wind was remarkably high. The day follow*
48
Digitized by Google
iag I vm answered from the Gospel: The 13th
Chap. of St. Matthew—“ As the tares are gather­
ed and burnt in the fire; so shall it be in the end
of this world. The Son of Man shall send forth
his angels, and they shall gather,out of his king­
dom all things which offend, and them that do
iniquity. Then shall the righteous shine forth as
the sun in the Kingdom of their Father: who hath
ears to hear, let him hear.” Here follows the an-
fwer given to me by the Spirit to these verses.
“ The end of this world is the end of Satan’s
reign in it, when I come to claim the Kingdom for
my own; for I said the field was the world, and
the good seed the children of the Kingdom; but
the tares were the children of the wicked one;
and the enemy that sowed them was the devil;
and I should send forth my angels to gather out
of my kingdom all things that offend; and that
the righteous should shine forth as the sun in the
kingdom of their Father. Now, as I told thee be­
fore, I tell thee again, one talent will never do to
see my work, without wisdom to understand, and
faith to believe it. Now, who in my kingdom of
glory above do offend ? Or who do wickedly
. there ? Or, who prevents the righteous from shin­
ing as the sun in the firmament, in my kingdom of
heaven above ? Did I not tell them it was my
kingdom of this world, that 1 told them they
should pray for? For, I said, the field was the
world, and the good seed the children of the
kingdom; and.is it not written, The kingdoms of
this world shall become, the kingdom of the Liv­
ing God ? Did I not create this world for my
own honour and gloiy ? And created man in my
own likeness to be established in it ? and have I
not promised to do it ? Then how is my Bible hid
in a napkin by mankind, to whom my words are
given, without wisdom to understand them ? But ;f
men want wisdom, let them ask it ofGod, and notof
49
Digitized by L i O O Q l e
men, that cannot give wisdom to themselves.
Where is the man with one talent who can explain
this chapter? Will they not do like the false wit*
nesses in the case of Susanna; one say one way;
and another say auother way; and so they most
be found wrong judges, if not false witnesses?
For what will they make of the pearl of great
price, that a man sells all he hath to purchase it?
What way soever man may place it, the true
meaning is, to discover the great purchase of
my Death, that I died to redeem them from the Fall
of Adam; and to raise man again into favour with
his God, as he was created for at first; and he, who
thus digs, discovers this great prioe of my Bloody
to wash away all their'sins: and like the flood of
water that washed away the race of mankind; so
shall my Blood wash away all the root ofevil, which
is the Devil. Now, when a man hath discovered
this, he will part with all the wisdom he had be*
fore to embrace it. And now 1 shall come to
another chapter: Ye must become as little chil­
dren, having all to learn, if ye will enter into my
Kingdom ; and he that despiseth those that be­
come like little children, despiseth me ; and who­
msoever receiveth one of these children in my name,
receiveth me. For, what ye shall bind on earth,
shall be bound in heaven; and whatsoever ye
loose on earth, shall be loosed in heaven. Again,
I say unto you, if two of you shall agree on earth,
as touching any thing that they shall ask, it shall
be done for them of my Father, which is in heaven.
Now, I have told thee, a child hath all to learn,
and so have men all to learn, if they will be
taught of my Spirit, to ask and receive, that
their joy may be full: for, what is bound on
earth, shall be hound in heaven. But howcan
men prove it by their wisdom: for what js loosed
on earth to be loosed in heaven ? Are not your
lives lost on earth, and yet, they are not lost in
heaven ? Are not your honour and good name of- '
- 4*
Digitized by L a O O Q i e
ten lost in die opinion of profane men here upon
earth? yet they are not lost in heaven. For,
these were lost by my Disciples, in the opiuion of
profane men; but they found them all in heaven.
And now 1 tell thee «s before, without my Spirit
to reveal and explain ail mysteries, no man can
make out my Bible, or prove it true by their own
wisdom. But now I will explain the meaning of
that chapter; and begin from the following text
— “ Glory to God in the highest, on earth peace,
“ good will towards men.” Luke ii. 14. Now, if
1 bring peace and good will to men, I must bind
Satan, as ye have bound him here on earth, to be
destroyed if he pursues “ the sealed people;”
and so he is bound in heaven; and 1shall falfil my
Bond. For as ye wish to be loosed from his
power, aud have me to come as the Captain of
your Salvation, that you may give all gfory and
honour to my name; so will 1 loose you here upon
earth, according to what ye have agreed to ask;—
for the meaning of the Two is, man and wo­
man joined together to ask the promise made in
the Fall; and both to cast your guilt upon Satan’s
head. For, now is come my appointed time to
fulfil all niy words and promises. So as ye have
asked to be loosed from Satan’s power; from Sa­
tan's power ye shall be loosed; and as ye have
asked for me to come in my power to destroy all the
works of the devil; in my power, 1 will now
come; and what ye have agreed to bind on earth,
• 1 have agreed to bind also : and my Word shall
be binding against your adversary the devil, that
he may be bound by himselffrom the sons of men.
For, now, my Father will do it for ye, according
to my words and promises: The bond is made to
)oose man, and to bind Satan—and in heaven the
bond is the same; and my Spirit shall comedown
amongst you, to loose you from his power. This
is the meaning of my words left*on record, i ^ t
45
Digitized by L x O O Q i e
when I come to f«l£l them, ye might know the
promise stands on record in my Gospel. Bat
•what can men prove by their wisdom, that have,
been bound in heaven and bound on earth, loosed
in heaven and loosed on earth, if my word is not
the binding of my promise made to man? That
when tub two together, the man and woman,
asked the promise made in the fall, it should be
done for them. For, Satan that was in heaven,
and lost his place there for rebellion, shdU now
lose his power on earth for rebellion the same,
if he breaks the bond which I have made. And
as man is loosed from the power and arts
of the devH when he goes to heaven; so by Sa­
tan’s bong bound, man shall be loosed from all
his arts and power here upon earth. For, my
word* is binding, and man's-petitions shall be bind­
ing also: and as saints in heaven are loosed from
Satan’s power; so shall men upon earth be loosed
from his power also. Then will they give glory
to Gtxi in the highest, and on earth peace and
good will towards m en: but though there »
good will towards men, they cannot prove peace
hath been upon earth, when wars have followed
all my Followers; for, in this world they have had
tribulation; but in me they shall now find peace.
For I will take the stumbling-block out of the
way of my people, and they shall possess my Holy
Mountain in peace. And they that improve tbs
talents left on record, given by m e ; and have
faith to believe I shall fulfil my word ; then they
will gain other two talents: One to discern ray
word, that it is by the Spirit of Revelation that it
must he made known; for how can it be fulfil­
led, before my Spirit comes to fulfil it? Fori
said both should grow together till' the harvest;
and then I should come to separate the wheat
from the tares. But now the seed is sown ; that
pieaneth, my word is come to warn you that my
46
Digitized by Google
est is at hand: «*d-a m t ist-letdown to gather
th good and bad* Ail these parables stand
he last days, to shew yo* howbshall bring
y Kingdom here upon Earth* For, none
esp signs are in heaven. I tell you all, they
e to my coming to, claim my Kingdom, that
d to redeem.—And now I will answer thee of1
man that said, all the Jews wereiost, spiritually
temporally, which lse declared were my words,
■
,He that believeth shall he.-saved; and he that
veth not shall be damned.” But hoar do m m
rstand that word, that all who believe in kk,
ying for them, to be saved ;:ftad they, who do
ieve it, to lin damned ? And so they judge f
upon the earth to destroy all niy chosm pern
both spiritually and temporally; for the Jews
f my ooqsen people, Then for what good dp
gy judge that; I cftme to m ankind: For; how
ff believe iir ME; pow to be the Redeemer of
jLn^ind, the Saviour of the world ! for I Baud I
up# ty seek and fo save that which was lo st: 1
Une-npt to pall the righteous, but sinners'to te»
; for they: that were.whole needed not a
fsician, but they that were sick. Then how
| caipe to call the Jews, who said they were
dijeou*? Did I not say I came to the lost sheep
?the house of Israel? And to them I was known,
ut bow- could .condemnation be. passed on all
en at that time, who did not believe, when I
id “ Father, forgive them, for they know nop
what they dp?” Then how can they be all. lost,
ecause they did not then believe. ? And yet they
re still believing in a Messiah to come, and re*
eem them from their captivity; aud that the-Lord
.'ill fulfil all he hath spoken by the mouths-of his
’rpphets. So their belief still remains as.firm as
housands of the Gentiles—and more firm ; for
hey believe that 1 shall come as it is written of
re, to/be theEverlasting Father, tirePriace
#7
Digitized by Google
of Peace, to visit and redeem my people, and
fulfil all that the Prophets have prophesied of me.
This is their belief, that I shall fulfil: but your
belief is, there is no merit in my death and suffer­
ings, only to save the righteous, that need not a
physician. For, the just have always lived by
faith, that the Lord would save them, who obey
him. And I said, I came not to destroy that Law,
but to fulfil i t : and that Law is not destroyed by
the Jews to this day; for they are living depen­
dent upon his words and promises! Then now
can men suppose, that condemnation was past on
all men at that time ? Who then will be saved ?
I must come to condemn &e world, and not to
save it, if I then passed that awful curse on man.
Oh ! ye sons of men, judge for yourselves, how
few will be saved by your judgment, if that
curse took place at my Death. O, how doth Sa­
tan work in your minds and hearts to wrest the
Scripturestoyourown condemnation; and overlook
all the Scriptures which are for your justification,
and for Satan’s condemnation 1 But I now tell you
all, he that believeth not in the promise made m
the fall, cannot believe to his own salvation.—But
here thou sayest, who then will be saved ? 1 an­
swer : In the time of ignorance, God winked—
* and I said, they had no cloak for their sins:
but I did not mean it at that time ; for they have
cloaked them to this day. But when I make my
Bible clear, there cannot be a cloak for any one;
but my dying words were never understood by
any one, when I said, Father, forgive them ; for
they know not what they do. Theu if they knew
not what they did, they must have a cloak for
their sins; for, to have no cloak for their sins,
they must know what they did: but my words
were left on record for my Second Coming; and
it is them, who believe in my Gospel, that have
no cloak for their sins, who rely on my heel being
48
Digitized by Google
braised, without Satan’s bead being bruised also;
because they sin against light and knowledge, it*
they know that I was the Saviour to die for the
transgression of man. They must know, the same
-prophecy stood in the creation, for Satan’s head to
be bruised likewise; and a more fatal curse was
pronounced on the devil. And that curse they
must know hath never yet taken place: then what
cloak have believers in my Death and Sufferings,
as the Saviour of mankind, and the Redeemer of
mankind, that now deny my avenging heel, to be
avenged on Satan’s head ? For, now I tell thee,
the believers of my Bible are like many that be­
lieve in the sea l in g ; for though at first they
profess to believe my Bible is tru$ and they be­
lieve it is of God ; but when I come to the pur­
pose, to demand the truth of my Bible, they as
much deny it, as many people, that have first
signed their names, and afterwards deny their
faith by destroying their Seals: and as little as
they regard the protection of the Seals, so .little
do meu regard their protection in-me !For, though
they profess to call fasts for my protection ; as the
people professed to sign their names; but as soon
as their fasts are over, they think no more of my
protection, than these people think of their Seals.
All is but & form, without faith, without belief,
and without relying on me. This was permitted
to go out one year, to shew the perfect state of
man, and the truth of my Gospel; and to com­
pare the likeness of the one with the other; but
now let no man sign his name, till lie hath read
this Book and judged for himself; then, they who
are clearly convinced the Calling is of God, and
are desirous for my Kingdom to come, and my
will to be done on Earth, as it is in Heaven ; and
for that power to be destroyed, that tempts men to
sin against me, {hat God may be ail in all; let
their names be entered, and .seals be given them :
H
49
Digitized by Google
for, the Sealing will not stop till the number be
up. But now let all men know, it will be more
fa ta lfo r them, who break their Seals, than it was
fo r Adam to eat theforbidden F ruit; for how can
they be sealed to the day of redemption, if they
break their Seals? Then they break off their re­
demption, spiritual and temporal. But as this
danger was not so clearly pointed out, as it now
is, 1 will not enter into so strict a judgment with
those that have already fallen off through unbe­
lief, if they repent of what they have done; as I
permitted it to go out carelessly for one year, to
prove the Parable of my Gospel,—“ The like­
ness of the net cast into the sea, gathering in both
good and bad; so have the lists gone out iuto
the world: but let him that hath stolen steal no
more; that ineaneth, let them steal no more seals
—no more promises—no more protections. It
will be fatal for them who have destroyed their
seals, if they apply for another: as they may de­
ceive thee, but they cannot deceive me—and let
them know that my eye is every where present;
and know, the Sealing is only for the faithful. And
he that cometh in any other way but by Faith, i9
a thief and a robber: for, he robs both God and
man j as he robs me of my honour, if lie judges
1 would permit the Sealing to go on in this manner,
without 1 the Lord had commanded it: he must
rob me of that honour which is due unto my
name; and he must rob men of their time and
expenses; time in writing ^expenses for paperand
sealing; therefore I have ordered the th:ng to go
out gratis, “ without money, and without price.'
So he that cometh in without Faith is a thiefand
a robber; but he that entereth in by Faith, en-
tereth into the Sheepfold, and I will be their Shep­
herd, and the Captain of their Salvation, that stand
stedfast by faith. But no man can stand stedfast,
who doth not stand by Faith; then how can ye
50
Digitized by Google
stand with me in my Kingdom ? For, they that
have already begun to fall; let them know* they
do not stand;—and it is only to them that stand
by Faith, that the promise is made to the sealed.”
Here I have given the words of the Spirit, con­
cerning the Sealing, that all men may judge for
themselves. And now I shall give you my pray­
er, which I was ordered to pen the latter end of
this year, and now commanded to be put in print;
as it is said to me that all who are wishing for the
Kingdom of Christ must join with me in this
same Petition.
The Prayer o f Joanna, which she was ordered tv
pen, December 18, 1803.
O my God, my G od! in thee have I trusted,
let me never be put to confusion; but grant, for
thy own honour and great name’s sake, that
if I am visited by thy Spirit, and from thee, the
Father of Light and Truth—as all the Truths
have come of the past, be pleased to hasten on
thy work in righteousness, and put to silence the
tongues of foolish men. Let thy power be made
known; thy truth be made known; take the cause
into thy own hand, that the unbelieving world
may know that thou, O Lord God, hast spoken
by me. Fulfil thy words, I pray thee, for thy
own honour, and the comfort and consolation of
those, who are now relying on thy words and pro­
mises, of thy glorious Kingdom approaching—
and Satan’s power to be destroyed, that thy holy
and blessed Name may run and be glorified, from
sea to sea, from shore to shore; that the ends of
the earth may praise thy holy and blessed Name.
O thou blessed Sou of God, whose love was so
great, to die, the just for the unjust, for the
gressions of man, and wast crucified •—
for the love of mankind ! now, I pra ; th
>- c; i.e
51
Digitized by L . o o Q L e
in power as a God, wearing the Crown that thy
judge wrote over thy Head, “ K ivo of the
J e w s .” O, be thou our King and the Captain of
our Salvation—and as thou then wore the Cross,
now come in the Crown of all thy Father’s glory,
and set up thy Kingdom in every heart, that at
thy Name every knee may bow, and every tongue
may swear to praise thy holy and blessed Name,
in things in heaven, and things on earth. Destroy
all the powers of the devil, that work in the hearts
of men to be at enmity against thee. O merciful
Lord God eternal, make the earth join with the
heavens above to praise thy holy and blessed
Name. Go forth, I pray thee, conquering and to
conquer, till thou hast destroyed all the works of
the devil, and all his power to tempt men to sin
against thee. Bring thy sons from afar, and thy
daughters from the ends of the earth, that thy
holy Name may run and be glorified. Fill our
hearts with thy goodness, and our tongues with
thy praises; and graut, that thousands may be
flocking unto Jesus, as doves to the wiudows,
crying out with the trembling gaoler, What shall
we do to be saved, to inherit the Crown that is
set before us ? Warm our hearts with thy loving­
kindness, .and kindle a flame of love within us.
Go from heart to heart, I pray thee, as oil goeth
from vessel to vessel; for without thee we are no­
thing ; and without thee we can do nothing. Paul
may plant, and Apollos may water; but thou, O
Lord, must give the increase; or all our labour is
in vain. Therefore, O God, in thee is all our trust,
to be the rock of our-, defence against the world,
the flesh, and the devil, Fo^>the...mouth of the
n icked is opened against iis;'Sand?the mouth of
the uugodly ready to devour u$.' O Lord, un­
dertake our cause, 1 pray thee, and guide us by’
thy wisdom; keep us by thy power; counsel us
by thy Holy Spirit, to know-ifhy heavenly Will,
53
Digitized by Google
and obey it. Open the eyes of our understanding,
that in seeing, we may see aright; in hearing, we
may hear,aright: and write thy laws on all our
hearts. Thou never saidst to the seeking seed of
Israel, 6eek ye my face in vain; but thou hast
promised to be aGod hearing and a God answering
prayer, and to give thy holy Spirit to them that
ask it. Thou, O merciful God, hast promised not to
despise the weakest of thy creatures. But, if achild
ask bread, shall a father give him a stone ? If heask
flesh, shall he give him a scorpion ? Now, if these
being evil, know how to give good gifts unto their
children, how much more hast thou promised,
thou wilt give good gifts to those that ask them !
Hast not thou, O Lord, bid us ask and receive,
that our joys may be full ? Is not thine eye every
where present? And are not the events of all
things known to thee, O God ? Is not all know­
ledge and truth in thee alone? Then how can we,
who are dust and ashes, judge that knowledge atul
truth can come from the father of lies, when it is
written, the God of Truth shall lead us into all
truth; and that we shall know the Lord, if we
follow on to know him r For thou hast promised,
the gates of hell shall not prevail against us ; for,
as-firm as the hills stand round about Jerusalem,
so firm thou standest round thy people; and as
firm as Mount Zion that cannot be moved, so
firm are thy words and promises made to them
who trust in thee; and in thee, O God, hath been
all my trust and confidence, that as thou hast
fulfilled thy words in times past, thou wilt fulfil
them in the time to come ; and as in the time I
was afraid, thy truths dismissed my fears ; soaqvv
in the time that I am afraid, I will trust in thy
deliverauce the same, that thou wilt not leave me,
nor forsake me. For, thy words have been a light
unto my feet, and a lanthorn to my paths: the
words of men have always dccehed m e; but thy
53
Digitized by Google
words, O Lord, stand sure and stedfast. When I
Teflect on the .past, unto whom shall I give praise,
honour, and glory, but unto thy holy Name, O
thou God of Truth! Then now, O Lord, I hum­
bly pray thee, make bare thy arm—make clear
thy truths to the sons of men; and shew them
plainly the Promises made in the Fall—that as
thou didst not spare man, whom thou createdst for
thy own honour and glory—and thy dear Son did
not refuse to bear the blame man cast on him in
Paradise, but had his Heel bruised on the cursed
tree, and suffered, the just for the unjust: now, I
pray thee, O Lord God, most holy, O God most
mighty, fulfil thy other Promise, I pray thee,
that Satan’s head may be bruised likewise, ac­
cording to thy Promise made in the Fall; and fix
his curse above every living creature; lay the axe,
I pray thee, to the root of the evil: for the root of
evil was the devil: he was the author of all
our sins—and the finisher of thy Death and Suf­
ferings. Then now, O Lord, let thine anger and
indignation be poured out on Satan’s head ; and
grant, O merciful Lord God, that as thou hast
been the Author of our life, and of our faith, to
trust in thee for Salvation, may we now trust in
thee for Redemption ! That as thou deliveredst
the children of Israel from the hand of Pharaoh,
and destroyedst him in the Red Sea; so thou wilt
deliver man, that thou hast created, from the
power of the devil; and destroy him also—that
the rocky hearts of men may gush out with living
■waters, to praise thy holy Name, world without
end. Grant my petition, dear Lord, I pray thee,
as far as is consistent with thy holy mind and
.will. And what I have failed in asking, O most
merciful Lord God, I pray thee not to fail in
giving, for thy own honour, and the good of man­
kind, whose eyes are looking up unto thee, hopp­
ing their redemption draweth near, to be redeem-
54
Digitized by Google
jed from the power of the devil, death, hell, and
sin ; that they may serve thee here on earth, as
the angels do in heaven, with cheerfulness and
singleness of heart. And as all the host of. hea­
ven praise thy holy Name above; so may every
man upon earth praise thy holy Name below;
that all the earth may be filled with thy goodness,
and with thy praises. For thou hast the power to
deliver us from evil; and to thy holy Name let all
the earth give the glory, for the sake of thy dear
Son, who died to redeem us from the power of
death, hell, and sin, and destroy all the works of
the devil. And now destroy them, dear Lord, I
pray thee, that thy Name may run and be glori­
fied—Satan confounded—and in the works of thy
hand, may all thy ways be justified ! Even so,
come, Lord Jesus; O come quickly!
t
The following Communication was given to
Joanna, in answer to a person who asked
her, why the Lord created the devil, to be such
, a wretched sinful being in heaven, when he
knew that would be.
65
December, 1803.
*
* Now I will answer thee of the man that
asked why 1 created the devil, knowing what a
wretched being he would be. Here the wisdom
of man hath taken in question the wisdom of his
Maker. But know, O vain man, you must first
feel the pain of sickness, before you know the
pleasure of health; a man that never felt poverty,
knows not what he enjoys by his riches; neither
did the angels in heaven know from whence all
their happiness flowed, that I had created in the
realms of bliss. Therefore, as worms breed in
wood, so did evil breed in the devil and fallen an­
gels. They could not believe that all h a p p in ess
sprang from ME. Envy and pride entered their
Digitized by L - o o Q i e
hearts—as worms enter into wood, till it begins
to decay, and to moulder iuto dust. Just so did
evil enter into the heart of the devil, that
thought he was a created being, though not of
he, but of himself; equal in might, majesty, and
power; and that he ought to be worshipped in
heaven, equally with me. Thus evilentered his
heart, without my creating it: as wood is grown,
and made into timber for use, and the worms
breed in it of themselves, without being there
when .it was first formed and fashioned; just so
did evil enter into the heart of the devil, like the
worms that breed of themselves in timber, till he
became corrupt all through, by pride, malice, and
envy. Thus did evil breed of itself. Then I
separated the evil from the good, and casthim out
or heaven, with the angels that worshipped him;
and placed his power below, to shew nis reign;
and created man upon the earth, where he had
power to tempt man, as he tempted the angels in
heaven. Therefore when I created "man,' I well
knew the depth of Satan’s arts, that he would
find a way to have an influence over him, as he
had over the angels in heaven; therefore I.said it
was not good for the man to be alone, and I saidI
would make an helpmate for his good, and placed
the tree of knowledge in the garden, that if the
niau eat thereof, he should be dead “ to know­
ledge” But did not arid the last words that
I meant. Now, this command was given to the
man, and known to the devil, who thought, if
he could impose on the weakness of the woman,
he should destrov the works of the creation,—
and
say, the woman I made for man’s good was for
his hurt—and then prove to the fallen angels, that
I had as greatly erred in casting them out of hea­
ven. as I erred in the creat ion, in niakinff the W
O
*
36
Digitized by Google
b e for liis good ? And it was concealed from the
knowledge of man to this day, how she could be
fo r man’s good; that the woman was then made,
-—whom they judged- brought the fall on man.
H ere with man it might appear impossible; but
w ith God all things are possible—and the mystery
is possible and plain. Tor, the man was made
o f the dust of the ground ; the woman was made
o f flesh and blood, taken from man in a state of
perfection. But know, he wasnot then the per­
fect man, but divided into two living souls and
bodies; and Satan betrayed that part of him,
th at I pronounced for his good------and man cast
his blame on her, and me for giving her; but on
the serpent, that is the devil, was the woman’s
blame cast—and know .the curse I then pro­
nounced on him, that that curse'should fall on
him above every living creature—that he should
creep on his belly, as having no foot to stand
upon. This as a serpent was pronounced against
the devil; and I said, I would cause enmity be­
tween his seed and her seed; and it should bruise
his head. Now, answer me, O ye sons of men,
did Satan outwit h e ? or shall I outwit him ? If
I do not fulfil the intent of my heart, Satan must
haVe outwitted me in the creation; as he is now
trying to outwitmenintheirredemption. But know,
0 vain men, if he outwits man, he cannot outwit
h e , who made the heavens and formed-the earth;
and who knew all the depths of Satan's arts.
Therefore 1 laid a plan in the creation to make
room for man’s redemption by the woman, that
1 created for man’s good, by casting her blame on
Satan’s head; and that every soul will find in the
end. Then will all the earth know I did not err
in the creation, when I bring in your redemption.
For, every footing Satan hath got on earth must
be taken away, when I come to fulfil my promise
to bruise his head, and bring the curse on him as
i
S7
Digitized by Google
$*
I pronounced. Then will mensay, “ Let God be
true and eoery man a liar” that says he ersed in
the creation, and did not make the woman fo r
man’s good. But know, I am God and change
not ft is man that has sought out many mven*
tions, to wrest the Scriptures to thefer own con­
demnation, not discerning the Lord’s Body tilt
his coming—that as iky Heel wan bruised, so
must Satan's head be bruised also. But .this know*
ledge man has been dead to ever since the fall,
which way it will be accomplished, till the glory
of the Lord was revealed to the womans that she
should ask and receive, that her joys should be
full, to be avenged of her adversary the devil,
whose subtle arts caused her fall; and my pro*
mises must be her plead; and my honour is en­
gaged to save all to the utmost, who. now believe
my word is, " yea and amen.” What I promise I
shall fulfil; therefore as dust returns to dust, so die
creation mustturnto what I created themfor atfirst.
So if it did not prove for man’s good then that
she was betrayed, it shall be for man’s good that
she pleads the promise, which was made in the
creation to bring in man’s redemption. There*
fore have I made all her prophecies more true and
plain, if man can discern them through, than any
prophecies given to man, that you may now begin
to see, the woman is your helpmate for your
good. But if all were given plain and true to
men, they would not Want, nor receive the W
o­
man for their good; but judge they knew all
themselves; therefore I have foiled the prophe­
cies of men, and made it more plain to the wo­
man, that you may begin to lift up your heads, and
“ know that your Redemption draweth near : and
my words are near to be fulfilled, that Satan’s
curse, which was pronounced, shall fall upon his
head—and my Kingdom of Peace near to he es­
tablished.—But all these Mysteries you must dig
I fc.
Digitized by i ^ d o Q l e
6$
deep to find them; for tins is the Pearl of great
Price.—
. ^ „__ t woman's Call:
That 'lb to hme the Serpent cast,
That she jthe.Piwphetess is plac'd,
To tell you all the end is come,
That Satan must receive his doom*
Now deeply weigh my Bible through*
And then you'll know her words are true;
Deeply weigh my.words,at first,
Ere the sleep on man was cart:
How I said, he was not good
To be alone as then he stood;
How the woman I did create
To be his partner and helpmate;
And if she help'd Um to the first,
And so the evil it did burst,
Which she did cast on Satan's head;
Then now at last mark what she'th said,
Thathe the guilt for her must bear,
As I did promise;—men, see clear,
That she hath now ask’d for your good.
To claim the promise of her God ;
And pray that my avfengihg Heel
May fall on*Satan now to feel
The same upon his guilty head.
Weigh deep her CaU, how it is laid,
And then you may discern the whole,
If deeply you do weigh the Fall,
And see a y Bible how 'tis plac'd:
Ye ne'er discerned, ye fallen race,
How that the Woman must appear
Cloth’d with the Light of Heaven here;
Because,she's clothed with the Sun,
From whence the light of Heaven came—
The light in darkness to tread down:
For so the. devil's light is found,
To shine in the benighted minds:
But all their light, they soon wiU find,
Is like the moon that pass'd away,
And set in darkness ere 'tis day:
As it is often by the moon,
Before 'tis day the* light is gone;
And so men's light will go the same,; *
For all men's lights FU now tread down,
That do not gather from the Sun;
And deeply weigh the days are come,
weigh the Fall;
Digitized by Google
And with your Bibles all compare;
Then you may know die day is near.
That all your light must pass away,
Which you’ve not gather’d from t h s DAT
Because the day for all is near,
Wherein my Bible I shall clear,
And every soul the T ruth may see,
If deep they every thing do weigh*
For now I’ll answer as a G od:
I made the Woman for your good;
And for your good she must appear,
To prove my Wisdom then was clear;
When I created her at first,
I knew the tempter then would burst
With every art to work in man;
Therefore I laid my every plan,
To have the Tree of Knowledge plac’d,
Pronounc’d him dead, if then he’d taste;
Dead to the knowledge of the Tree,
If e’er the fruit was pluck’d by h e;
Or, if he ever eat the same,
Dead to the knowledge of my name—
And dead to knowledge he became.
My labour then began with man:
One day became a thousand years:
When men increas’d, I prov’d it clear,
They had no knowledge of the good,
To know the promise how it stood:
Nor knew the evil how ’twas plac’d ;
You know, the woman pluck’d the first,
And so she gave it unto man;
But know, her answer when I came,
It was the serpent her beguil'd ;
And so the serpent then she foil'd ;
For when I cast it on his head,
And said on him the curse was laid,
And for to prove my words were true,
I had my labour in my view:
To prove that man was dead at first,
Unto the knowledge as 'twas plac’d ;
For so the ages still went on—
It never was discern’d by men,
That they these promises must claim;
And so in death they still remain’d
To all the knowledge of the good,
Until they perished in the flood :
As man no knowledge had of mb,
And so their fatal end did see. ,
* 60
Digitized by Google
And fromthe Prophets'twasthe same:
They all went on—to man they came;
But man knew not they, were for mb9
And so their suffering you may see
Throughout my Bible, how they are placed;
In every age you see them cast.
Then where was knowledge in the man,
To live in mb, and know my name ?
That all their Prophecies were true;
That as I said I’d surely do ?
No! this was all unknown to men,
Before they felt my heavy hand:
Then you must prove that man was dead*
For want of knowledge as I said,
In every age that’s past and gone;
The four thousand thus roll’d on;
And then my birth to man appeared,
As in my Gospel you have heard.
But dead to knowledge then was man;
My chosen race did kb condemn,
Until they nail’d mb to the tree,
To bruise my heel, as 1 did say:
Because that mb they did not know,
That as a God my love was so,
To bear the fatal curse for man,
That Satan’s doom the same might come;
But this mankind did not discern;
And the five thousand then roll'd on;
And men were murdered for my sake,
And martyrs burned at the stake;
Because no knowledge was in man,
To know the way I’ve laid my pldo,
To prove to knowledge man was dead* •
It is by f a it h , as i have said,
That all the just have lived in mb—
< From every age the just you see,
How they by faith have walk’d with God;
Yet, dead to knowledge they on were led—
To know, when I had prov’d them dead,
To every knowledge as I said;
Then Satan’s doom the next must come,
Receive the curse I laid on him;
Because he held mb to my word,
That man must die, as then I said;
And dead to knowledge man I’ve prov'd,
In every*thousand of the age,
Through the five thousand that are past;
My chosen people so are cast,
<?I
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
Dead to ibe. knowledge ^of tb eirio rtL , ...
No m in dw erns my dying word*”-
•‘Fa t h e r , t h e y know mot w h a t •t h e y ii>0'
"Tis f in is h ' d now" : and see it trub-*-
There is no knowledge found ia m an:
It was by faith the just did come;
Because the wonders men believe,
None but a God could ever give,
Nor, work the miracles I w rought; .
So ’twas by faith the just were taught,
To judge me as the Son of G od;
Relied on eveiy word I said;
And yet no knowledge was in them,
M y Father’s promise for to daim ,
That I must then bruise Satan’s bead.
Though in my Gospel it is said—
I died to conquer death and heU:
But in WHAf w ay no man could t d l ;
Because the Days were not gone through,
The'Five that I had in my view, '
Must in like manner still go on,
To prove no knowledge was in man*
And so the Jews do now appear—
They have no knowledge to sea dear,
That I the Son of God could be;
But now the sixth you all shall me,
I am come to shorten Satan’s reign;
Because the Gentiles, I see plain,
H aw no more knowledge than the Jews—
My dying blood they now refuse
For to avenge on Satan’s head— ‘
Therefore the sealing now is made,
For me^to try what is in men—
And dead to knowledge I see them ;
Save but a few that walk by fa it h ,
Believe the Spirit what he saith: . .
Because the Prophecies came true, ->
That none but God could see and know,
And all the events would come to m an;
Foretel the wars when they would come;
Forctel the harvests at the tim e;
And every year to tell my mind,
\Vhat I would do upon the earth ;
.For as I speak it all breaks forth ;
And 'tis.by faith the just do see,
That all this knowledge carac from me;
And so the just are saved by f a it h ,
So perfect as the Scripture saith: '»
Digitized by.Google
And so their namesare giy$p toME, v
That now my ps^im ei they may fee,
For me to bruise the serpent'* bead,
As first the promise there was made;
While others full ofunbelief,
Will perish soon in fatal grief;
For, if I've kept my word with man,
That dead to knowledge aUhave been,
And so through ignorance braised my bed; •
The devil now my wrath shall feel,
And I will sorely bruise his head, »
And lay the curse as then I said;
And now 1’lLfix it above man's,
That wish my Kingdom for to come;
Though some m sin may now appear,
And with the beast you them compare;
But they shall not receive bis doom—
For he shaft perish in their room*
If they the promise noiy docrave
For he to fail, and man to live;
That is, the devil I dp mean,
For him to fall, and man remain
The object of my dying love;
* My mercies,they shall taste and prove,
That I did die a Sinner's Friend;
Because I prov'd them in the end,
To stand as fervent friends for me, .
When their hand-writing l do sec,
That they do wish for # e to reign,
And Satan's power to be chain'd down,
That tempts them nowto every sin.
Like the wise virgins they are come;
But many foolish willappear.
Destroy their faith, as said before;
Because their lamps wiUall go out.
Through unbelief, 1said they'd doubt;
And so their faith willgo away—
But I'll not save them in that day,
When I in power do appear—
It is 1
4 CHk seals" the wise must clear,
To prove they’vegot themin their hand,
When to redeem them I shall stand
To chain the powers ofdatkness down:
For he shall tremble at ray sound,
Much worst than Adamat the first;
For on him shall my fury burst;
Because he crav'd my word,with man,
That dead toknowledge they must coflne: T
$3
Digitized by Google
And so my chosen Jews appear;
And so the Gentiles I see here:
As dead to knowledge all of mz,
In unbelief mankind I see, ‘ :
That do profess to love my Name,
But have no knowledge of the same,
Why I did shed my dying Blood, *
To cast it on the serpent's head.
For, if I kept my word witl^man,' 1'
Satan can never miss my hand*— "
If fifty righteous men appear, 1
To see my Bible now is clear,
The Woman clothed with the Sun
Must tread the powers of darkness down—
And bring the kingdom of her God,
As in my Bible this is said;
That is, my Kingdom must appear, .
As in that chapter you see clear,
When such a Woman here is seen,
That is a wonder unto men; .
Because a wonder she must be,
What I shall do, to know, and see,
Without my Spirit to anpear,
To give the Light, thavs given her,
The truth of all to see and know,
And prove my Bible all is true.
Then sure a wonder she must be,
To those that can't my Spirit see,
How she is visited from on high,
And 'tis in me her light doth lie,
To baffte all the light of men;
And prove the devil's curse must come,
That you did never see f t fore
Till she had made the mysteiy clear. '
And now the mystery all may see;
She's sealing Satan's destiny,
To tread him down beneath her feet;
You must confess the wonder's great,
That all together this is done
By Satan's arts, ye simple men:
Then now divided he must be 4
Against himself—the mystery see:
Because his kiiigdom it must fall,
And you may wonder then of hell,
If he from hell should so appear,
To give such light and make all clear:
The light of all men to tread down,
That in her light will not be Couad*
64
Digitized by Google
For, now 111 challenge every man,
That doth refuse her written hand;
That they in darkness now are found,
And?soon will tremble at her sound,
WhenI begin the following year,
To make the mysteriesout more clear.
Because the midnight all will see,
That Satan's light hath foil'd all ye;
And so he'll leaveyou in the dark,
When I begin to set the mark
Of your high calling, that is near:
The midnight then will make you fear,
That you have stumbled at the Sun,
And groped for light, when it was gone."
This Communication of the Origin of Evil was
read to a Dissenting Minister; and Joanna asked
him from what source he thought it proceeded.
He-said he thought the Rev. Mr. Foley had as­
sisted her therein. Mr. Foley, who was present,
most solemnly assured him, that if he had assisted
her in that, or in any other of the communications,
he would have not beten then talking to him;
as in that case he must have known it to be the
work of men, and not of God—and of course
that it would come to nought. But from being
chiefly with Joanna for the last two years, he
knew that all her communications were given
to her by a spirit, without the aid of books or
men, and in the very manner declared by our
Blessed Lord—“ The wind bloweth where it
listeth, aud ye hear the sound thereof, but ye
cannot tell whence it cometh, or whither it goeth
soare the words given to Joanna; and he wasmost
happy to have that opportunity of declaring the
Truth to the whole world; as the same false and
erroneous' opinion might be in others, as well as
in him. After this declaration of Mr. Foley’s,
Joanna assured him that all her communications
were from a Spirit invisible; and as the mi­
nister affirmed there were only two sorts of
Spirits, good and bad, she desired to know of him
K
65
Digitized by Google
/
from which he thought that Communication came.
He then answered, from the devil. Being asked
what he made of the twelfth chapter of the Reve­
lation, of the woman being a wonder in heaven;
he answered, it was the church; and treading
the moon under her feet, was treading down the
Jewish ceremonies; and flying into the wilderness,
alluded to the flying from persecution, in the time
of Constantine. After this conversation in the
evening, with much more, too tedious to mention,
being in prayer, I was ordered to ask him how
the church became “ a w o n d e r a s the Lord had
a church in every age of the world. The morn­
ing after, the dissenting minister called at the
house where I was ; I then asked him as I was
ordered. He then answered—W hy! the church
was “ a wonder,” how it stood after so much per­
secution it had met with. I told him, if the church
was “ a wonder,'’ that was supported by the pow­
er of God, which had stood through all ages of
the world, it was a greater wonder now the hea­
then nations stood, that were supported by the
power of the devil: so we might make all the
world “ a wonder.” So his wonder is none to me,
when I reflect on the Divine Being whose power
created man out of the dust of the ground, and
made the world in such regular order out ofchaos;
placing the sun to keep its orbit, and the sea and
land to keep their bounds : so that all things on
earth and in the heavens shew the wondrous •works
of the Lord, that he is infinite in wisdom and
in power. Then it cannot be a wonder to me, how
he should be able to keep up his church, to shew
that in all ages of the world, his holy name is
worshipped by man, whom he created for his own
honour and great glory—and, when we reflect on
his love to men, to die to redeem them, it cannot
be a wonder that his power shall save them. N o!
here my wonder must cease, how the church hath
66
Digitized by Google
stood; and it cannot appear a wonder to me ho#
Satan’s power shall fall. For, what footing hath
he to stand on ? Had he power to make the world ?
—Then howshall he have power to destroy it? Had
he power to make man?—Then how shall he have
Eower to destroy all the works of the Lord ? If
e is already fallen from glory in heaven, before
the power of the Most High, I believe as assuredly
he cannot stand before him ; but will fall before
him, as it is said in holy writ. So the belief of
the Scriptures makes me rely on the truth of the
Spirit, which assures me that the Lord is now
coming to .fulfil all he has promised in the Bible.
Here I have given my judgment why I think the
church to be no wonder how it stood, which he
thought so great a wonder.—But he told me, that
in the night after he had declared my writings to
come from the devil, that the bed seemed to shake
violently under him, and that he was greatly
alarmed—and he asked me, if I had power to ef­
fect it. I did not observe his words, (but Mr.
Foley and Mr. Jowett did) and I simply answered,
No, I never felt it; as I thought he asked me
whether I had ever felt such things. He then said,
he could not tell what it was; for he was as wide
.awake as he was now in repeating it, that his bed
was greatly shook, and he was greatly alarmed.
But to his words I was answered by the Spirit,
that the shadow to him would be the substance to
thousands, who said, my writings came from the
devil: “ For they shall know that I the Lord have
spoken, and also will do it: for the year of
MY REDEEMED IS NIGH AT HAND.”-t-But here I
shall insert some observations made by a minister
of the church of England upon the last Book of
mine, which was lately sent to him. As he was not
ashamed to write it, I am hot ashamed to print it;
the note which he sent back with the Book, is as
follows:
67
Digitized by Google
“ Tis astonishing that any one should have the
presumption to call this absurd publication a ipro-
phecy.”
“ Tis astonishing that any person should be
prevailed upon to print such writings, and call
it poetry.”
“ When I turned over to the poetry, beginning
in page 32 (of the Word to the Wise) instead of
reading it, curiosity led me to count hour many of
the lines ended with the word appear, and I found
it to be 33 times in less than 14 pages, and tzricc
appeared, and once appears; and the rhyme to
appear, is the word here, more than a dozen times,
and clear almost as often. War and years are also
rhyme for appears. Oh fie! fie ! what a poor
barren language must this make the English a p ­
pear !”
Now I shall give the answer that was given to
me by the Spirit, and let the world judge of the
man’s wisdom; for I shall not give them my
judgment on his foolishness.
“ Now I will answer the mockery of the minis­
ter, who mocked the language of the prophecies.
As all men shall know I am come in the Spirit to
have a controversy with my people—rand thou
prayest I will take the cause into my own hand,
and put to silence the tongues of foolish men, and
give an ear to thy petition; to thy petition the
heavens have given ear. Then now be astonished,
0 earth, for I the Lord have a controversy with
my people. I have nourished and brought up chil­
dren, and now they have rebelled against me : but
1 will turn the wise men backward, and shew the
foolishness of all their wisdom. Now let men look
baok to my Bible, and to my Gospel, how they
are fulfilling it: for the wisdom of God is counted
foolishness with nren—and the wisdom of men is
foolishness with me, that am the Lord of heaven
and earth. Now let them see the foolishness of
68
Digitized by Google '
their-boasted wisdom: as the Church allow their
Psalmsto be right; then now come to thePsalms:
“ God in the great assembly stands,
u Where his impartial eye
4
4In state surveys the earthly gods,
4
4And doth their judgment try/9
But how could'I try the judgments of men, if I
came in heavenly language, superior to mankind,
and in prophecy more plain than before; or, than
ever I yet spoke to man, as a fool may understand
them? But, if men have wisdom to discen/ them,
and understand what they read, thy prophecies go
deep to the fulfilment or the Bible—the destruc­
tion, of the heathen nations, that do not come to
the standard of the Gospel—
-the call of the Jews
—the fulness of the Gentiles—and theirtumult to
arise—the wild olive that was planted in, not to
be high minded, but fear, lest they are cut off, as
the Jews were. Thy prophecies foretel in what
manner my Kingdom will be brought in, if men
are judges of what they read ; and foretel who
are the people that willstand, when I appear to be
as a refiner of silver; and wbo are my jewels that
I will make up in the day that I come to destroy
my enemies, who would not that I should rule
over them. But were my enemies ever yet de­
stroyed ? Now, let it be known unto all men, the
lord of the vineyard must come to claimhisvine­
yard. Oh, ye blind leaders of the blind ! Is not
the ditch before you all ? What did I say should
be done to the husbandmen who would not give
up the vineyard to the Son, and reverence him ?
Where is your boasted wisdbm, if ye know not
the Lord of tbe vineyard must come and claim
the vineyard ? Then every branch that abideth
not in. me the True Vihe, mu's; be cut off. But .
every branch that abideth in me beareth fruit:
but what fruitdo ye bearthat denythe fulfilment
f t
Digitized by Google
0 ^ n*y Bible? Ntfw, look to the self-confident
Jews, and tremble for yourselves, ye self confident
Gentiles. For, as by your mockery, ye are fulfill­
ing one part of her prophecies; so will my anger
and indignation fulfil the other. And now1let men
weigh deeply the pages he mocked, and judge the
sense of toe words, and not look to the fineness
of the language. For, now I shall answer from
what they call the fine language of men—
“ Let Jews and Gentiles stop thefir month*,
Without a murmuring word:
For the whole race of Adam stands
Guilty before the Lord.”
So if men will not bow to words spoken to tbee
in what they judge a contrary verse to man’s, spo­
ken in foolish language, as they judge it, let them
bow to the language of men, whose hearts were
prepared by me, to give spiritual hymns, that I shall
prove them in the end. For the preparation of
the heart, and the answer given to thee by the
tongue, are both from the Lord. Now, let men
answer, why they mock m e by their prayers,
psalms, and hymns, and spiritual songs, saying—
MAlmighty God, cut short his reign,
' Let him in darkness dwell:
And that he vex the earth no more,
Confine him down to hell.”
And now I have told you, I am coming in might,
majesty, and power, to cut short his reign, and
confine him down to hell, rage and fury, malice
and anger, are kindled in your breasts, saying,
you want me as a Saviour to save you; but do not
want m e , as your Prophet, Priest, and King, to
reign over you, and have the government to be on
my shoulders, to feign and govern over all. But
know, O vain men, the government must be mine,
to govern the earth I died to redeem—and he that
70
Digitized by Google
will not submit to ray government shall be trod­
den down as ashes under my feet. Therefore, tbc
day is coining that shall burn as an oVen, because
I am despised and rejected of men. And now let
all menjudge for themselves. Is not my eye every
where present, beholding the evil and the good ?
Then do you judge your God another such as
yourselves, calling good, evil; and evil, good ?
Shall I call them good who mock my coming, de­
spise my warning, reject my invitation, and doing
despite to my Spirit, that I have sent to testify of
my coming? And shall I call them evil, who are
looking for, and hastening to, the coming of the
Lord Jesus Christ? And their desire is to have
u e to rule over them, and in them, that I the Lord
may be all in all, and the power of Satan to fall
from man. Judge for yourselves, ye wordly wise
men, if you are not placing light for darkness, and
darkness for light; bitter for sweet, and sweet for
bitter. For the bitterness of Satan's reign, ye are
calling sweet; because ye have loved the sweetness
of your sins, that will end in the bitterness of
your souls; and the sweetness of my Kingdom,
that is life and liberty, joy and peace, when righte­
ousness and truth shall meet together, love and
peace shall kiss each other: this you have placed
as bitter things. Then judge for yourselves, ye
men of this world, if I should bring in my King­
dom to such men as ye, to have my delight with
the sons of men, what delight can I have with
you, who judge yourselves wiser than your Ma­
ker, and arc coming to direct my hand, placing
my wisdom as foolishness before you; but how
could I prove men before 1 tried them ? And how
could I try them without warning them of my
coming, and prove who is for me, and who is
against m e ? And he that is for me will rejoice at
my coming; but they that are against me will he
full of the wrath of hell; for time will Satan
71
Digitized by Google
work as an angel of light; as he did on the self-
righteous Jews—and ao they will say, they are
righteous to trust in my blood for their Salvation^
hut hare no righteousness in them for my Justifi­
cation, to say I am just to have the Kingdom I
died to redeem with my own blood, to reconcile
the world unto God, and destroy all the works of
*the devil This-appears wrongin your eyes, whom
the God of this world hath bunded, that in seeing
you cannot see, norin hearing you cannot under­
stand, that the dayis coming which shall bum as
an oven, and all that do wickedly shall be burnt
up like stubble: and what greater sin can a man
commit, than to oppose the Kingdom of his
God?” *
72
fourth Edition, April 28, *
1808.
. L O N D O N .
Piloted by W.Marchant, Greville-Street; and sold by £* J- Fired, N o*139,
near Bloomsbury Court, High Holborn; W. Tozbr, Lambeth Road, St^
George's Fields: also by W. Symonds, Gandy Lane; and the Miss E ve*
leigus, St. Sidwell’s, Exeter; S. H irst, Leeds; J. Middleton, Yorkj.
and J ambs L ioiit, Coventry Street, Stonxbridge, Worcestershire.
(P rice One Shilling and Three P ence.)
Digitized by Google
