{"name":"The Strange Effects Of Faith","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1801__southcott___the_strange_effects_of_faith.pdf","mytitle":"The Strange Effects Of Faith","mylang":"de"}
THE
Strange Effects of Faith;
W I T H v
... ' •
2Xema$able ^ropfjectea .
(wade in 1792, &c.)
OF THINGS WHICH ARE TO,COME;
*
, »
Also, some Account of my Life.\ ;
The Lord h coming (as he hath spoken by his Prophets) to
be the Mighty Counsellor* the Everlasting. Father, the Prince
of Peace, and the Desire of every Nation : And this is his
Counsel-—1
T o deal with Men after the Manner of Men ; to
have these W ritings tried by Judges and Jury:‘T h e Judges
are the Minivers of the Lord- the Jury.are the Sheep o f
his Flock : So I give myself up to the Judgment 6f M en,
to be trijed according to tne Laws of God and Man. .N ow ,
if l am refused so juft and fair a T rial, I ,muft judge m yself
in a £and that Darkness hath overspread, and gross Darkness
the*Eyes of the People; where Justice is fallen in the Streets*
and item ty cannot enter. »
J O A N N A S O U T H C O T T .
ExfcTBR, J a n ^ 1801,
«y / • k•
■o e g n a K i W geecfc. >
1 T H E -SECOND ED ITIO N 1
/
Jointed for the Author,; (formerly) by T/Brice** High-street, Exeter j
t S L o itfc o ti; . :
RcrPrinted hy A* Scale, i 60, Tottenham Court Road,
Sold by E. J. F r& n , 2, High-street, St. Giles’?; two doom from the
Angel Tnn ; E. C a r pe n t e r , near the Elcphagf and Castle,
Newington Butts ; C . A b b o t t , East End of OM-street,
near Shoreditch Church; W . Symonds, Gandy-lane,
Exeter ; M i^ E v e l e ig h s, St. Sidwell’s, E*ej|r,
and Mr. <
^
h il d , Stqqrbridgfc Worce*terj»bicp.
Price One Shilling..
Digitized by
In the first Edition, the second Page was left a P!anhn
and the following is permitted to be added to fill up
' that Blank Page. It was given by the Spirit to fio— .
anna, on the c
2Qth Oct, 1802. She was then told she
should not only have the knowledge from the Sp i r i t , hut
also the P o w e r , and it was by divine Power she had
been kept to go on, not only in opposition to men and
' devils, but against her own will. For she had often
* determined to burn all her writings.
N ow these are the W ords that were given to Joanna
from the Sp ir it T hey will see the truth of my
W ords in thy W ritings, from thy own hand ; and here
is the truth of thy dream, (see page 32 of this bookj
trying to break the feathers, but could not, for my de­
crees are unalterable, and change not; and now thou
Bird that plucked the fea-
For now, I say, thou'It pluck them all,
When you to the purpoie come :
Their lofty feathers they fhall fail
The G reat Bird will be km nn,
• Whose feathers hard they were at biass,
The gold was fp^ngled ihe»c }
For I (hall then unveil my k.ce,
And like the Bird appear.
For none shall pluck, and noire shall break
The things that I’ve decreed ; .
And they shall find the simple bird
Confound the wisest head ;
Whoe'er do come, with words most strong
Thou (halt confound them all ;
And-they (hall know before ’ti* long.
Their feathers all (hall fall
Unto the ground, in every sound ;
My W o* d they cartnot break,
That it was l did visit thee,
And in thee I do speak.
So high or low, let mortals know,
'Tis-I direct thy hand,*
The spangled gold thou didst behold
Upon the Bird to stand,
Whose feathers there did so appear
A s solid Brass to thee 5
From it the nations all shall know
The firm decrees of M e.
So 'tis in vain, ye sons o f men,
Ever to break my word;
The spangled gold I now (hall bring
To those that judge the Lord
W ill now go on, as I’ve begun,
Unril I’ve made an end ;
And then the gold I’ll give to man
That now will stand my friend.
So I’Hend here and say no more*
vFor all is hastening on.”
AS in every age of the world, izbett the Lord be-
gan to -work on the heart of man, to prophesy in his name,
Satan began to work on the hearts <f others to prophesy
by him, that the Prophets of the Lord might not be be­
lieved ; so now, in the last days* when the Loi'd intends
to do as he spoke in the Prophet Joel, pouring his Spirit
Upon allfleshy ana upon his handmaids, that they shallpro­
phesy, he well knows Satan will do the sam*: therefore,
it is written, False Prophets and false Christs will
arise.
And that no man might be deceived in this matter, /
say, that the Gospel of Christ, and the Visions of fohtt
in the Revelations {chap. 12, 19, and last) shew who are
the Prophets to be believed : but no living Man can give
an explanation. The word of God is as a book that is
sealed, so that neither the learned nor the unlearned can
read {that is to say, understand) it; for it was sealed
up in the bosom of tbs Father, till he thought proper to
break the seals, and reveal it to a Woman, as it is writ­
ten in the Revelation.
A 2
Digitized by
« IV
Had these things been known or understood by man,
the world would have seen many of these women in every
age and century; but the Lord bath concealed it from
man, as bedid from the Jews the manner in which Christ
shouldbe born, which was a stumbling-block to them; and
now the case is the same with the Gentiles’, for neither
Jews nor Gentiles understand their Bibles.
We are commanded to try the spirits, whether they be
of God, or not. I f they be of God, the truth will make
manifest.
Now, if any twelve Ministers, who are worthy and
good men, will prove these writings come from tbe Decil
andhis foreknowledge of things’, and explain clearly to
me those mysteries of the Bible that I shall propose to
them, 1 will refrain from further printing : but if they
cannot, I shall go on, till I have made public all the
mysteries of the Bibie— the times which are to come— and
what shall happen till Christ’s Kingdom be established:
sometimes from parables, sometimes from types and sha—
doavs, sometimesfrom dreams and visions, and alsofrom
the Bible, which shewetb, by the account of the trie of
knowledge, that knowledgemust cometo manfrom the wo­
man. As she atfirst plucked the fruit, and brought the
knowledge of the evil fruit, so at last she must bring the
knowledge of the good fruit•
Digitized by G oogle
T h e STRANGE EFFECTS or FAITII.
Ij’ lU S T P A R T .
AS l have began to publish to the world, I shall
give some short accounc of my l.ife, which hath
been singular, fropi my youth up to this day. I shall
omit former particulars, and beg i^with informing the
Reader, that, in 1792, I was strangely visited, by day
and nigi'.t, concerning what was coming upon the
whole earth. 1 was then ordered to set it down in
writing. I obeyed, though not without strong exter­
nal opposition; and so it has continued to the .present
time.
In 1792, my Sister told'me, I was growing out o f
my senses. She said, “ You say there will be a:war.
“ Who shall we go to war with? The French are
** destroying themselves. As to the dearth of pro—
“ vision you speak of, you are wrong ; for corn will
come down very low ; 1 could not make 4s. 6d.
** a bushel of the best o f the wheat this year. As
“ to the distresses of the nation, you are wrong there ;
“ for England was never in a more flourishing state
«
* than it is in at present’ I answered, “ W ell, if
“ it be o f God, ic will come to pass, however
“ likely or unlikely it may appear at p.cscnt. If not,
“ I shall hurt no one but myself by writing it. I am
Digitized by G oogle
6 -
<
c the fool, and must he the sufferer, if it be not of
€
t God. If it be of God, I/woukl not refuse for the
4
4 world, and am determined to err on the safest side.0
My Sister thought she should err on the safest side, by
preventing me from doing-r ; and said, I shook! not
do it in her house. However, l took advantage of
her absence; and, in 1792, I wrote of what has since
followed in this nation and all others; but the end
is not yet.—*— I left my writings at Piynuiee, and
came back to Kxeter. 4
In 17^3, the w ir broke out; and in this year, three
remarkable things happened, which I had written of
in 1 792. These events strengthened myjudgment that
. it was of God ; for it was said, “ Whatever I put
4
4 into thy mouth, I will do upon the earth/*
In 179j y I told the llev. Mr. L. how I had been
warned of what was coming. After hearing me in
silence, he said, “ It comes from the Devil; for not
€
i one thing you have mentioned will come to pass.
“ You have the war in your favour, which is all that
«
* will come true of your prophecies, and the war will
4
4 be over in a quarter of a year. It is from the devil,
4
4 to disturb your peace : Satan hath a design to sift
u you as wheat. ■ Yet I believe you to be a good wo-
4
4 man ; your friends speak of you in the highest
4
4 terms; but what you have said will never- come
4
< true. Besides, if ic were, the Lord would never have
revealed it to you. There are a thousand in Exeter,
4
4 whom I could point out, to whom the Lord would
.4
< have revealed it before he would to you/’ ------O f •
the$£ observations I had been warned, before I saw
him ; yet it made a deep impression on my heart, tears
.and prayers were my private companions. But the
next day, I was answered, 4
4 Who made him a judge
* He neither knows thee, nor thy. forefathers, who
* walked before me with a perfect and upright hear.t.
Thus the feeling of my heart was deeply answered,;
wiGh further sayings used by him, which at present, I
{hall not mention.
Sop
Digitized by G eogle
Soon after this, I went to St. Peter’s Cathedral,
and heard the Rev. •* M r.--------- ; whose text was,
Walk ye in the light, while ' ye have light, lest
dirkness come upon you. He remarked on the neigh-
bouring nations abroad, and on the seven churches o f
Asia; made application to the affairs of our own land;
and concluded with the words of Samuel, Yet for all
this God will s.y.e ylu, because ye are his people, ifye
obey hi n ; if net--------- ” --------- As soofi
as his sermon was over, I was answered, “ Thou must
“ say unto him, as our Saviour said unto Peter—
“ Blessed art thou, Barjonoh— for flesh and blood hath
“ not revealed it to him, but the Spirit of God. What
“ he hath this day preached is the will of God. If
“ [,. give it tip. go to him [the Preacher] for he
“ will not; forthe laws of the Lord are written in his
“ heart.” I had been answered, that the truth of
my writings must be brought to light by one man j
either by the Rev. Mr. L. or the Rev. Mr. — — —
the Preacher above mentioned. This was at the end
of i 79^, not long after 1 had been with Mr. L. and it
was said to me, “ 1 shall set signs before thee. He
“ that bringeth to light shall come unto thee; for that
“ shall be the sign unto thee, my servant. H6 shall
“ come; for I will so incline his heart, that my will
“ may be done.” But I was not to write to Mr. —
the Preacher, till Mr. L. gave it up. I told my friends
o f the signs ; but bound them to secrecy, that no one
might be any way influenced by my writing.
The next summer, j 794, corn grew dear, and dis­
tress began in our land. Thus commenced the shadow &f
my writings; and I was told the substance was behind.
I then sent another letter to Mr. L . ; but he was not so
confident as in i 793. He wrote to me as follows :
“ The Lord may have revealed to you what he has
7
• The names above and hereafter represented by d$ts are omitted by
the printer, who scrupled to insert them, not having the licence of the
persons alluded to.
not
Digitized by G o o g l e
" not to mcj but I am of opinion with many, we are
** going to see good days."------The substance of his
letter confounded me and made me earnest in prayer.
Iwas answered, c< He erreth in judgment, as well as
** stumbleth in visions, to judge that the storm is
** blown over.” ----- 1 took his letter, and the answer
to it, and sealed them up together, thinking time
would shew whose words were most true, those of
the Spirit that visited me, or those of Mr. L. and
such as joined him in opinion.
In i 795, I sent him another letter, telling him, that
danger still stood before us, and that the truth of what
Ihad written in 1792 was to be proved by 12 men.
Mr. L. wrote me an answer, that he had taken my
important question into consideration; that all were
ready to serve me ; and that the wisest way he could
think of would be to bring the 12 men together the
Monday following.------Before this answer reached me,
I was told, that he had not given it u p ; but that it
would not happen according to his words. The
thoughts of their hearts were laid open to me, and
I was told, they proposed this, in order to convince me
o f my folly : So I was ordered to write him a short
reply, and to go and converse with him. I was told,
that it should be set before me as a sign, that Mr. J£.
would come to my house, and invite me to his, where
1 should meet Mr. L .——-All this happened according­
ly.------The week after, it was said unto me, “ If
** L. come unto thee, thou hast nothing to fear
•* from him i but if thou go unto him, he will surely
“ stumble ; for he that he doth obey will come j and
•* when he heareth he will not condemn j
But, O thrice happy is the man,
T hat doth begin and will go on,
TUI ev’ry curtain be drawn back,
T o know, and prove, if I do spe&k.
For happy then shall be the man,
That doth obey his call :
His talents live shall soon be ten,
My Spirit so shall fall*
x Him ril.impower from on high,
M y Spirit he shall feel,
The sinners’ hearts he shall avrakef
The broken heart shall heal.”
This
3
Digitized by G oogle
This was spoken before I had seen Mr. L. On the
Monday following,Mr.E.came to my house, and asked
me to come to his. Thither I went, met Mr. L . and
told him what reasons I had for believing my writings
came from the Lord. Mr. L.and all who were present
heard me in silence. When I had delivered my reasons,
I asked his judgment. He said. ** What you know not
** now you will hereafter. If it be of God, we shall, see
*f more of it; if of yourself, your head is wiser than
“ mine.” I asked him, if he would give up enquiry
into its truth. He said, “ N o ; it requires time to!
** consider of it.” The Monday following, I asked
M. and Mrs. L. to breakfast at my house; butthey
did not come. That day, I was answred thus .*
9
4 Now, tell him fflain, he’s not the man; ’
For 4tis b y ------------- it must be done,
Back to the Church, the standard, all musteome;
For in the altar I was seen at first;
And in the altar did the glory burst,
W here Simeon did the holy child behold ;
And in the altar aie the plates of gold.44
The week following, Mr. L . sent me an answer, that
he had given it up, and had resigned to the Minister,-
who (as I have said) was chosen in his room. This was.
at the close of summer, 1795. A t the end of the year
I was to have together six men ofthe dissenting class,
to try theirjudgment. Four refused to attend, as they
thought it from the Devil, or judged me to be both a
knave and a fool: So I had other four in their room j
but was told, before I met them, that their judgment
would not be right, their wisdom was too w eak; there­
fore I must be the judge mysejf;
I f they believe, that hell below
Such language e’er can speak :
But back tneir footsteps all will trace*
And marvel what they've done;
jAnd wonder that they could not go
In things that were so plain*
B
Digitized by
1 was
G oogle
I was ordered to meet the six men,' and read to them
how some particular chapters of the bible were explain­
ed, with a few prophecies, and some remarkable in­
stances of my life. Every man was to keep silence for
the space o f ta hour. This they did ; and great is the
mystery explained to me, as the watch was laid on the
seals, by which were inclosed Uhl-names o f the 12 men.
When the hour was past, I demanded their judgment•
,
and quitted the room, while they consulted. In some
time, they came to me, saying, they had agreed, and
must see the prophecies, I said, they should, if they
judged them to be of God. They came again, saying,
they must know who the ministers were. A third time
they came, and said, they must break the seals on the
ministers’ names. I told them, that should only be
done in presence of the twelve themselves. But curio­
sity made them break the seals; and (thus breaking all
their wisdom they said, it was from the Devil, or my­
self, or they could not perceive it to be of G od; and
therefore they persuaded me to give it up, forgetting
what I had read to them, and that they had fulfilled my
writings.------The meaning and mystery of this meeting
1 shall explain another time.
Next day, I was persuaded to yield to their wisdom^
but I was answered, that it should be fatal for me ; for
the Lord would not fesigti to their wisdom; therefore t
should not give it up to them.— Thus I ended with the
dissenting line.
And the end of-1795 an<i beginning of 1796, 1 was or- ^
dered to write to the Church Ministers. At the time'’7'
o f the general fast, I sent a letter to the Rev. M r.— .
(the Preacher before alluded to) on the Gospel, Sup-
poseye, that these Galileans were sinners above all the
Galileans,becausetheysufferedthesethingslThtRzv.Gen­
tleman sent me word'by the bearer,that hewould send an
answer by his servant. I waited nearly a week, and did
not hear from him. One day, I was above stairs wri­
ting, and the last words I wrote were, “ Go down and
“ see him.’’ I went down, and found him enquiring
about
10
Digitized by G oogle
*bout me. I asked him to walk in, and said, ** I sup-
“ pose, Sir, my letter hath surprised you.” He asked,
Was it you that sent it ?” I told him, Yes, with my
reasons; and that Mr. L. had judged it from the
Devil. The Rev. Gentleman said that nothing ofwhat I
had'said to him appear^ likely to have come from the
Devil- As to the dangers, which I had said stood be­
fore us, he did not seem to doubt therp; but said, if
I was called of God, I ought to warn the public before
the rod fell, as it would be of no use afterward. Thus
finding the Rev. Gedtleman’s conversation correspond
with what I had been foretold years before, I sent him
a letter.
! i M y faith,grew strong; and I sent a letter (as I was
ordered) to a Rev. Dignitary of theCathedral of E xeter.'
I-was assured, before I sent it, he would not answer it.
, I dreamt soon After, that I was in a room with* w ell-.
looking Gentleman and Lady. On a sudden, the door
was burst open, and the Devil entered in disguise, and
attempted to seize the Gentleman, who fled to the far­
thest part of the room. The Devil persued him, en-'
deavouring to put his arm around his neck ; but the
Gentleman pushed him 6ff. The Lady and myselfwere*
affrighted, and I awoke.—— — The next day, it was
answered me, '* It is the Christian Minister ; he will
** come to thee in disguise.’’------I said to a person,’
“ How. differently is my dream explained to what T
** expected!*’ 1 thought the above-mentioned R e v ,'
Gentleman Satan would try to deceive; and 1 was
answered.
<
1 T hy thought o f t is not wrong ;
For Satan will try there ; ,
But to the purpose he will come*
And baffle all his snares ;
A s thou didst dream he push'd him off,
He Satan will defy.
He will appear, the truth to clear,
And stedfast he will Stand,
B s not surpriz'd at the disguise.
T hat he may take in hand.
B 3
11
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
12
$o now I bid thee to go home,
And shew thy writings there ;
f And* suddenas thy garden dream,
I'll make him to appear.*'
The last thing I had written was, that I should see him
the next day. Being then at work, Mrs. T . sent me
word a Gentleman desired to sweak with me. He was
displeased, and said, a man haa been at his house, and
told him 1 had prophesied lies: that, if it were so, it
could not be from God *
, and I was committing the sin
against the Holy Ghost, and, he doubted not, 1 should
lose my senses. Mrs. T . said, sh6 knew not of any
lies 1 had prophesied; tat she knew, that 1 had told o f
these things when there was no appearance of them.
He said, that was very surprising.------Such had been
their conversation, before I came.----- When I came,
I_ found it to be the Rev. M r.---------, whom 1 ex­
pected / and he repeated his words to me, I cold him,
he had been mis informed as to the sense of my words,
and explained particulars to him. He said, “ Then
*1 your prophecies were not f a l s e y e t he reasoned
wjth me 9n £
he danger of my proceedings, if I were
* not called of God. Finding he could not convince me,
it was not of the Lord, he said, “ Then why don’t you
*' haye your writings proved ? You will wait till you
“ bring the sword, the plague, and the famine upon
. “ .us. A If you cannot get twelve, get six. • 1 will meet
with any.” I said, “ Sir, it must be twelve.” He
said, “ Then let it be twelve; but do not wak till you
“ bring the swprd upon us.” I said, I would not, if
the Ministers would prove them.— I was convinced,
that he had disguised his real sentiments, and had thus
' promised to examine my writings, thinking to con­
vince me of my folly.
“ So* tfycM see'st plain* that he did mean
To stay thy written hand:
To piease a fool* he'd anger rule,
T ill he could all command. •
That is to see tl\e mysteiy,
And then convince the whol^
I t was to lay t! y follies by,
Made him the cause uphold.**
A *
Digitized by G oogle
As these words were revealed to me, I admired hi*
wisdom, patience, and prudence j and thoughc Heaven
could not direct me to a wiser or a better Minister; for
he that can conquer his own passions is a greater hero
■ than him who taketh a city. He must be a good man
that can so condescend to convince a fool of her folly.
But he knew not my strong reasons for judging my
writings to be of God.
The May following, twp things happened, as had been
predicted. I went to the above Minister’s house, and'
put a letter into hi* hand, saying, “ Sir, as you doubt,
“ what Spirit I am led by, be pleased to keep this
“ letter till the end of the year; you will then judge*
“ of its truth.” this he consented to do.— — :At
the end of 1796, what I had written o f .came to pass.:
He then said to me, “ Formerly, if it were asked*
“ o f a Prophet, how the wars would tend 1 he could
tell. Now, if you can inform me of what wilt
“ happen in Italy or England, I shall believe you’-—?
The next day, I was earnest in prayer, that the Lord:
would answer his enquiries j and they were so. I seat
him the answer, which was completely fulfilled, as.to.
Italy and England, in 1797 ; but the three sheets o f
writing, which I gave him, foretold, affairs for years;
to come, and spoke muert of the present period.
The following spring 1797, 1 sent a letter to a second
Dignitary of the Exeter Cathedral. His servant re­
turned it to me, saying his master would not be in
Exeter to receive it till the next week. I then sent it
again, and met the like disappointment; but the letter
was left. 1 was now answered, that I should have
the same dissatisfaction when he came to Exeter, and
tljat both Dignitaries would treat my letters with
contempt.
13
“ Thus both w ill thee deceive.
But shall they laugh thee unto shame*
For what thou dost believe ?
FTthey agree tolaugh at thee,
Their laughter I shall turo.j
And
Digitized by G oogle
And in the end, thou'lt find these men,
Like thee, will sorely mourn.
Thou buildst so high, that none can fly,
T o rob thee of thy brood ;
The fowler’s net cannot come nigh ;
Nor can the shooter's load.
Tho’ heavy charges men prepare,
And point them fromtneir breast;
They are afraid to let them off,
Lest they their aim should miss.
Besides they fear, I may be there;
And terror stops the blow :
Thus I thee guard from every snare,
And that they all shall know.'*
A
In this manner, from simple types and shadows, I
was foretold how every man would a c t; and that I
had nothing to fear, as no man should hurt me, if
the truth o f my writings should provoke them to
anger:
These promises, and the proofs of the truth o f my
writings, strengthened my confidence in the Lord t
but I have often marvelled, why I was ordered to send
toMinisterc who would not give themselves the trouble
o f searching out the truth ; and for this reason,
have often doubted whether the calling were of God,
or not. But the pondering o f my heart was thus
answered:
14
How can the fruit be ever try’d ?
How can the truth be e'er apply*d i
The godly men will f© decay,
I f I shall prove as weak as thee*
I say, the fruit shall surely fall ;
L e t.. . . . . . . stand, and hear his call ;
And now a Moses let him be,
Or else my judgments all shall see ;
Then all together you may feast
' And all together fy st;
I'll bring a mystery in the end,
That shall for ever last."
These words were delivered to me in 1796, in an­
swer to a sermon, preached on the 29th of May, by
the first mentioned Dignitary to whom 1 had sent &
letter
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
letter. I fancied that he reproached me in his ser­
mon ; and his words pierced my heart. I marvelled,
that a Gentleman, to whom I had appealed, should
decline seeing me to convince me of my error; If I
were wrong; and in solitary tears, I repeated the
words of David,
u Since godly men decay, O Lord,
Do thou my cause defend >
For scarce these wretched times afford
One just and faithful friend."
I was answered,
“ Since godly men do so decay,
Ana thou dost sore complain,
Then the good Shepherd shall appear,
The sheep for to redeem ;
For faithful labourers now shall come
And in ir.y vineyard g o ;
M y harvest it is hastening on,
Which every soul shall know."
After this, it was said to me, * As men increase
thy sorrows, I will increase theirs: and thfc gene­
ral burden shall increase, till men take the load from
thee.— Yet I marvelled, how the iath chapter o f
, Revelations could be fulfilled, of the woman travailing
in birth, and longing to be deliveied ? but the won­
ders John saw in heaven, must take place on earth.
1 5
W hat wonders there Would then appear
To an enlighten'd race,
When every mystery is made clear,
. And seen without a glass.
No veil between then being seen,
No wonders you’d behold ;
For all alike is clearly bright,
A s pearly streets with gold.
Should wonders there to you appear,
You’d wonder then of all.
T o see them clothed with the sub,
Could wonder none at all.
Such is the mystery to man—-(that a woman should
be clothed with the Sun o f Righteousness, who is now
coming With healing in his wings)— because they know
noc
Digitized by G oogle
not the Scriptures, which indicate, that to fulfil all
righteousness, the woman must be a helpmate to man,
to complete his happiness. This men marvel at, be­
cause they never conceived what the Lord hath in store
for them, in fulfilling his Promise given to woman.
So men, I see, do stand in wonder,
W hile angels also gaze ;
Satan broke man's bliss asunder;
Man wandcreth in a maze.
So, with amaze, you all may gaze;
The angels wonder here,
Vou cannot see the mystery,
Nor find the Bible dear.
There Eden’s tree, you shall fee,
Preserved for your sake ;
The flaming sword is God’s own word,
’Twill break the serpent's neck.
Thus, by types, shadows, dreams, and. visions, I
have hcen led oh from 1792. to the present chv;
whereby the mysteries of the IfiMe, with the future
•destinies of nations have been revealed to me, which
wilt all terminate in the Second- Coming of Christ;
and the Day o f Judgment, when the seven thousand
years are ended.
u Now, should men say, all this by thee is done,
Thy head is wiser than each mortal's son.
And if they say it cometh from the Devil,
Then plainly tell them, that their thoughts are evil $
For Satan’s wisdom never lay so deep ;
Y et to thyself thou must the secret keep.
But if men say, it cometh frpm on high,
M y judges shall appear, the truth to try.
Then in thy faith be stedfast still,
W ith salt be season’d well.
Remember thy baptismal vow, .
And triumph over hell.
Your Captain too shall quickly come
And bring all to an end,
- And fix his Glorious Empire o’er
The wise, whose hearts w ill bend.
A s in a humble manger here,
Kings did their Sovereign see;.
So my low handmaid doth appear
T o all a mystery.
Now,
Digitized by
b
yG oogle
<
* Now-, can you longer make dispute*
From whence you hear the sound ?
Thus Satan must henceforth be mute,
Nor talk the faithful down.
The reasons all are none at ali
O f those that won't believes
Thus when the Bible forth I call,
W hat answer will you give ?**
I omitted to mention, in the proper place, that, at
the end of 1794 I had a strange vision— As soon as
1 had laid down in my bed, a light came over the
room. 1 looked at the window; but saw no light pro-
ceed from thence. I looked at the door, to see :
if any one was entering with a candle; but no
person was there. The room now appeared to
me to be full of lighted candles, hanging, in
candlesticks, on lines crossing the room. B e- .
ing astonished and frightened, I covered my head
with the bed-clothes, and then saw a spacious room,
with a chandelier ofnjany branches, and lighted lamps
sparkling with great lustre. In the midst of the room
stood a large table, with large lighted candles there­
on, so thac the light equalled the ,n o o n day. I ex­
claimed) “ What can this mean? I was answered,
“ Arise and shine, for the light is come, and the glory
of the Lord is risen.”
The next day, (being perfectly awake), I was or­
dered to write down my vision, which was thus ex­
plained to me -.— That my writings must be proved
by 12 men; and, when met for that purpose, that
the candle of the Lord would bum brightly among
them, and the spirit of wisdom and understanding be
given them ; for as the day of Pentecost was to the
Disciples, so should that day be to them, and every
one present should see it was.the Lord’s doing. The
names of the appointed 12 1 put into the hand of one
pf the 6 persons mentioned in p. 10, and charged them
not to break the seals upon them, till the 12 were
assembled. However., (as I said before) the watch
that was laid on the seals was removed and the seals
broken thro* unbelief, so that darkness came upon
" C the
17
Digitized by G oogle
the minds of them. Thus is the mystery explain­
ed, that this circumstance is set as a watch before
mankind-
The harvest of 1796 was remarkable good, and
great plenty followed: And it was said unto me,
* As they (the men mentioned in p- 10) kept' silence
** for the space of one hour, the Lord hath withheld
** the rain in time of harvest-"
Now, if this publication awaken the Ministers to
search out the truth, or the Rev. M r .--------- , (the
Preacher) return to the examination of my writings,
the next and three following harvests are promt ec! to
be plentiful. ** Prove me now, (sarth the Lord 1 and
** try me, if I will not shower down blessfntrs upon
•** you.” But, if the many truths laid before you
with the threatenings put into the hands of Ministers,
do not awaken them to search out the truth, the I.orci
will fulfil his word.
“ I f by the wise men I am mockM now,
Like Herod's fury, I'll fulfil my vow.
W ho mV anger shall appease,
. I f all deny my will ?
M y thunderbolts shall loudly roll,
And men's proud hearts shall chill.'’
Now, let the Reader look deep into the mystery,
and behold what Divine Wisdom hath directed me to
shew to mankind, I wag foretold how Ministers
would act, and that the truth would be brought
to light by one man. I was now ordered to have
my writings copied, and put into the Printer's hand.
This I did; and the very day I had given them to
the Printer,the Chosen Minister returned from Exeter.
1 thought, I would not send to him till the book was
printed j but was answered, " How weak is thy
"jud gm ent! ” and was ordered to send to him next
day. I found he was offended by my putting his
name in the news-paper. He said, if I published
his name, he had done with m e; otherwise, he
would comply with my request. Two friends -of
mine wrote to him, of the truth of my writings:
18
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
and at his request, I waited on him with one o f
rny friends. l ie said, he found argument fruitless,
in persuading me to stop my hand, and should argue
with me no more. He bade me get the writings of
1792 copied our, as he could not set the originals
before Ministers, who would not attend to manuscripts
• which they could not read ; and they would not trust to
what I should read to them : Therefore, he bade me
open the seals on the writings of 1792, and send them
with the fair copy ; and if the Ministers he consulted
should judge them to be of God, 1 might have 12
or 14 afterwards.
When I returned home, I was ordered to follow his
advice, remembering what had been told me in 1793,
“ 1 will direct thee to a man, whose talents are
tf greater than thine ; he shall have five talents ; he
“ shall direct thee.” So I had my writings broken
open before witnesses, marked, copied, and some part
sent to him.
The week after, I waited on him again. He said,
what I had sent was not enough to convince Ministers,
and I must open the seals set in 1794 and 1795. The
next day (Sunday) I was ordered to have them opened
in the presence of 12 witnesses, who wereto'set their
names on them* Three weeks were then allowed him,
to examine, to consult Ministers, and to judge whe- t
ther the writings were of God, or not.
Soon after, I was ordered to write to three Ministers
(the letters will be hereafter given) i and I was told
it would be fatal for me for time and eternity, if I did
not publish my writings, should these Ministers remain
sjlent seven days after. It was said to^me, “ f do not
“ need the Ministers to prove whether they be o f God
“ or not; for that shall be proved by the truth:
“ But this I command thee to do, to keep thee from
“ the snares of men, who may charge and condemn
“ thee for imposture; saying, thou hast signed thy
** name to what thou hast not written. 1 have so
ordered every truth to be made plain, that no man
“ can
19
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
** can prove one false report in thy writings, or dispute
** what spirit inspires thee. Thy writings must be
** submitted to the judgment of learned Ministers of
** my Word. Let them be disputed before they be
“ proved j let Ministers be the judges, and common
** men the witnesses and jury, to try the truth of
** this ordination. All thou hast done, and all the
** letters thou hast sent, have proceeded from com-
** mand of the King o f kings, the Lord of lords, the
** Everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace, the Mighty
** Counsellor, and the Desire of every nation.”
W hen I sent the letters to Ministers, it was said to
me, that if these things were not o f God, their hearts
should be worked on to stop my hand in seven days;
and if they did not, I should wait no longer than
itfew Year’s Day (Old Style) 1801, and then have it
printed, to be judged o f by the world at large, to
try the wisdom of men, and to let them see What
wisdom there is in the Lord, ofwhom it is written in
the PsaUns,
20
“ God in the great assembly stands,
Where nis impartial eye
In state surveys the earthly gods,
And doth their judgments try/*
&ew- Year’s Day arriving, and the Mini sters, to whom
1 1 wrote, remaining silent, I consider their silence as
evidence, that they cannot prove what I said not to
be from the Lord, and have therefore published as
I was directed.
The following is a copy of the letter I sent to the
Rev. Mr. ■ at Hcavitree.
** Sir, I have sent you many letters, wherein you
have kept silence, as being at a loss from what hand
they were indited. You judged it strange, Sir, the
Lord should reveal his secrets to a woman: But,
when you come to the knowledge o f your Bible, you
will not judge it strange at all. You first judged it
came from the wisdom o f man; and therein you
erred as much as the former; for was every man on
earth
Digitized by G oogle
* earth a Solomon for wisdom, they could not bring
* round such a mystery as is in my writings, and
4 make every truth agree. If there ever was so much
* wisdom in man, he must be a fool to give the praise
* to another, and not take to himself the merit due to
* himself.— -Now 1 shall come to the purpose. The
* century is ended } the seals are cut open in the
* presence o f six witnesses [what was written in 1792)
* and marked, and coppied out. W hat was written
* in >791, till 1795 anc* «797» and nailed up in a
* box, is broken open in the presence of twelve w it-
* nesses j and they have signed their names to all the
« writings; so that, if the original is demanded, no
* man can be deceived. Some o f them were copied out,
* and sent to the Rev. M r.......... So here the century
* ends with men. i f those Ministers, that I have
* written to, do not go to Mr........ before the year
* ends to the old style, and prove these writings are
* not from the Lord, their silence gives consent that
‘ it is of God, and they will be made public. The -
‘ Lord was but seven days making the world, and
* rested on one of them ; and he will allow no longer
* for man then seven days to judge o f his works j
* so I am compelled to warn you all, what you do
* you must do quickly, or for ever after hold your
* tongues. When you hear me make public to the
* world, that it is the £ .............................................. ......
f
* that
21
( l a m sorry, my intentions cannot be fulfilled, by giving to the public
in print the whole contents o f the above, and of ornev letteis.hereafter.—•
The Printer declines copying them fully. He tells me, that however per­
fect my conviction may be, tnat what I have written is of God, and how­
ever strong my resolution may be to hazard all consequences in its publica.
tion, yet he has received no supernatural instructions, and therefore feeh
not, in this case, any degree o f the spirit of martyrdom within him, for
which reasons, he chooses co deciin* giving any person the power of ma­
king this publication a handle for venting the ill-humour of political dis­
appointment
Digitized by G oogle
* that are bringing down the judgments of God .
* and they will bring the------------ - - -------------------
* upon themselves.— Now if any Ministers, that I
* have written to, can deny the truth of these things,
« let. them bring forth their arguments, and shew
* their strong reasons; or let them be silent before
« the Lord and say we cannot answer thee one word
* o f a thousand, in all the letters thou hast sent us :
* For, be it known unto you, and to all men, it is
* the Lord’s doing, however marvellous it may ap-
* pear in your eyes. My writings arc in the hands
P of Mr - - - - that you are to judge, if you think
* proper, in the time 1 have mentioned. I will give
* it up to no man’s judgment after the seven days
* are expired, but shall publish them as 1 have said.
* I have understanding as well as you all, neither
* am I a whit behind you; but ye have all been
* judges of what ye know nothing about. I am
* clear from the blood of all men; and am,-with
* the greatest respect, your humble servant, r
J o a n n a S o u t h c o t t .”
The following is a copy o f a letter sent to one of the
Dignitaries of the Cathedral ot Exeter.
“ Rev. Sir, * Jan. 4, 1801.
“ 1 beg liberty to say unto you, ( as the Voice
said unto Paul) V/'hy persecutes! thou me ? it is bard
•for tbee, O Paul, to kick against the fricks. And it is
hard for you, Sir, to fight against God through unbe­
lief. You have done it, till almost a -------- is come
on the poor; and if you continue, you will bring the
- - •*- on tire rich ; for you will surely find, Sir, you
have a God to deal with, and not (as you suppose) a
simple Woman, whose senses are gone you know not
appointment upon him.— This part of my writings, however, he has per­
used : and promises, if he find them fulfilled, to bear impartial testimo­
ny to their veracity.
" ■ where*
Digitized by G oogle
where. I grant, they are gone otit of the reach of mail,
while you judge through a glass darkly; but you must
judge face to face, Sir, if you will be a judge for
yourself, unto whom you have done despite, cither to
the. Spirit of the Lord or me. If it was to me, I would
never trouble your Honour with this letter; for my
spirit is too great to be treated with contempt. But,
1 as you have done it to the Lord, 1 am ordered to warn
you in lais name. The time of ignorance God winketh
at, but now you have no cloak for yourself, if you
shut your eyes against the day-light. The letter I sent
you in 1799, of the harvest; I had copied out and sent
to the Rev. Mr - - ~ Both harvests came as I foretold.
M r............. disputed with me, if my foreknowledge did
not come of myself, and desired me to come to the pur­
pose of what I wrote in 179a ; so Ijopened my seals in
the presence of witnesses,and had all my writings mark­
ed in the presence of 1z witnesses (what I wrote in 1794
and 1795 and 1796 and t 792) and had part of them
copied out, and sent to Mr - ------- , for him to consult
with Ministers from what spirit they judged it came;
from the Spirit of the Lord or the powers of darkness.
I shall not blush to say, that man is void of understand­
ing, that says, it is from myself. But now, Sir, I
must come to the purpose. The writings I have sent to
the Rev. Mr. - - - -If they are not proved by Ministers
before the year is out by the old style, that they are
not of GodJ they will be published; that they are of
God, the Ministers silence gives consent. T h e - -
- - - - bringing down the judgments of God
upon - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - ; and, the Lord is just, to send the - - - -
on them. I was ordered, to send this to you, Sir,
that you may judge for yourself, in seven days. What
I say unto you, I say unto the Rev. - - - - You
are both at liberty to judge for yourselves, and if you
prove the writings are not of God in the space ofseven
days, I will give it up to yo u ; but if you now keep
silence, I am the judge myself, and I shall have
them
23
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
them published, as I am directed. They are in the
hands o f Mr - - ~ - If you think proper tojudge
them before the time, you are at liberty, or forever
after keep silence. I am, with the greatest respect,
your most humble servant J o a n n a S o u t h c o t t . ”
Here I add a third letter.
« T o the Rev. M r.;........ Exeter.
** Rev. Sir, you may be surprised, to receive a letter
4 from a woman, of prophecies, to appeal to your
* judgment. Sir, now it is come to the eleventh hour.
* Strange as it may appear to you, I am ordered to
* proceed. You preached a sermon in praise of the
* K ing; and I have his interest as much at heart as
« you have. M y earnest prayers is for him, that the
* Lord will protect him through life, as being sur-
* rounded with so 'many enemies. I do not lay any
* thing to the K ing; but those .. . . . . . .
‘ . t. • ♦ . . . ...................................................
* This was my prophecies for years agone— there first
* Would come an Egypt’s. . . . , and after that an
f Egypt’s . . . . . .— — — But now I must come to the
* purpose.— I was called by the voice from heaven in
* 1792, what was coming upon the earth. lobeyed
* the summons, and have been writing ever since what
* the Lord would do upon the earth’ And this hath
* been sealed up every year; and now the century is
? ended with men; and by the old style it will end
‘ with the Lord. My seals have been opened in the
* presence of twelve witnesses, and marked,and copied
*
■ out, and sent to the Rev. Mr. . . . . . , for him to
‘ consult with Ministers from what spirit they judged
‘ it came. Now, Sir, I was ordered to write to you
* t h e .................................. ..... bringing down the
4 judgments of God on the land, as you find in my
* prophecies. And this I am going to. publish to the
4 world, unless the Ministers that 1 have written to
* meet together, and prove the writings are not of
4 God, in the space of seven days, which ends with the
* New
24
Digitized by G o o g l e
* New Years Day to old style. If they can prove
4 that I am wrong by that time, I will give it up to
4 their wisdom, but not after to no one’s judgment,
4 till I see the end of another year; for the Lord will
4 begin with a new century j and I will see what he
4 will do, before I will hearken to any man’s judg-
4 ment. Now, Sir, if you are as great a friend to
1 your King and Country as you preached, you will
4 diligently search out the truth o f these things; but
4 you have no longer than New Year’s Day to the
4 old style. I am, with the greatest respect, your
4 humble servant, Joanna SoUthcott.*
4Jan. 5, i8di.
25
These are thefirst of the writings made in 1792.
The Reader w ill observe, that the follow ing is printed
wordfo r word according to the original. W orldly-
minded Critics may cavil at the language % but I have
been ordered thus to give it the world,to try the beads
o f the learned. The Lord hath stolen to m en;
as men: and I am onlypermitted to allow the P rin ter
to omit such parts, as {thro' fea r o f mans anger) be
may be unw illing to insert.
* Q U E N C H not the Spirit; despise not prophecy;
for the time is come, that your women shall prophesy,
your young men shall dream dreams,your old men shall
see visions; for the day of the Lord is at hand- T he
day is nigh at hand, that shall bum like an oven ; and
all the wicked shall be burnt up as stubble; whose fan
is in his hand. I will thoroughly purge his floor; I
‘will gather my wheat into his gamer, and bum up the
chaffwith unquenchable fire. Awake them that steep,
arise from the dead, and Christ wiH give them life.
" 4
D This
Digitized by G oogle
This I have penned, as the Lord hath directed me ;
for there is none holy as the Lord ; neither is there
any rock like our God.
* Talk no more so proudly; let not arrogancy come
out o f your mouth; for the Lord is a God of knowledge
and hy him actions are weighed. The bows of the
mighty are broken, and they that stumble are girt
with strength. The wisdom of the Lord is hid in
the great deep, and his paths are past finding our;
for the wisdom of God is foolishness with men, and
the .wisdom of men is foolishness with God. Are
J
our ways equal, or mine unequal O house of Israel?
adge ye : are not my ways equal ? Are not your ways
unequal, O house of Israel. Feat ye the rod, and who
hath appointed it.
The time is come,that judgments must at God's ov.-n houre begin,
And, if he first attacks the just, what cafe are sinners in ?
I f God the righteous, whom he lov'd, with justice ch th correct,
„ W hat must .the sons of violence, whom he abhors. cxjKct ?
TheSpirit of the Lord is with them that fear him. On
that man will I look, that is of a meek and contrite
spirit; he trembkth at my word; he conimitteth all his
.ways to the L o rd ; he will direct his goings, fur God
is the 6ame God yesterday, to-day, and for ever.— .
.Think not, for yourselves, our dear Redeemer came
-into the world to make you more ignorant than the
Jews were. He came to enlighten our understandings
and'not to darken them. But ye will not come unto
him, that ye may have life; for at the second com-
.‘ing, ye shall scarce find faith on the earth; for unless
'ye see signs and wonders, ye will not believe. Faith­
less and perverse generation ! looking for signs ; and
there shall be no signs given you; but the prophecy
o f the Prophet Jonah; Nineveh shall rise up injudg­
ment against this generation.”
I shall now proceed to my own experience, which
.hath truly convinced me the Lord is awakened as one
out o f sleep; and the voice of the Lord will shake
terribly the earth*
T he
26
Digitized by G oogle
The beginning of the powerful visitation of th4
Lord to me was on . . . . . 1792-------* I no more
intended thou shouldest go to reprove the people, than
I in ended Abraham should offer up his son Isaac. I
did it to try thy obedience. Now will I swear unto
thee, as l did unto Abraham.* I will make with thee
an everlasting covenant j and save thee with an ever­
lasting salvation"
When these words came to me, my soul was trou­
bled in the dust before Qpd, and I began to cry out,
‘ What am I, or what is my father’s house, that thou
hast thus honoured rr.e, unworthy wretch as I am? M y
past life makes me ashamed of myself.’— These words
came to me: ‘ I will reward thy obedience ; and in
blessing I will bless thee: And, as J kept nothing
.from Abraham. I will keep nothing from thee. Thou
shale prophesy in my name ; and 1 will bear thee wit­
ness What 1 putin thy mouth, that will Ido on the
earth.
Then these words came to me: *The Lord is awake;
as one out of sleep. T he voice of the Lord shall shake
terribly the earth. Pestilence and famineshall go thro’
the lands. Men’s hearts shall fail them for very trouble*
because they have not known the visitation of the
Lord-” As soon as these words came tome, I trembled,
and was afraid of his majesty and greatness. Tears o f
humiliation ran down my eyes, and holy fear seized my
soul. I wept bitterly, and wondered a: his divine good­
ness to such an unworthy creature as I was. But'these
words was answered m e; ‘ I have seen all thy en­
quiries, to know my will and obey i t ; and now I
will reward thee. Dost thou believe it ?” ------1 cried
out, * Yea, Lord * if it be thy voice, I do believe it ;
for I know thou art not a man to lie, nor the fon o f
man to be wavering. I have always found thee a God,
like thyself, faithful to thy word, and faithful to thy
promises.’----- rl was answered, * Dost thou think I
will now?— I said, * Yea, I.ord ; if it be thy
word, I know thou wilt. Thou hast been faithfol to
thy word throughout the Bible, in every age of the
D a ' world i
27
Digitized by G oogle
world}aGod, the same yesterday, to day, and forever.’*
I was answered, *This thou believest, and this thou
shah find me, faithful to my word, and faithful to my
promises ; and next Sunday I will fulfil my promise
at my table,” which, I bless God, I felt remarkably,
and waited with a holy longing for the blessed pro­
mise made by Jesus Christ. I tiien made a solemn
vow to God, to be obedient to all his commands, as far
as I saw his righteous will concerning me, earnestly
praying that I might not be deceived by my own
weak untierstandirfg, nor deceived by the arts of Sa­
tan, praying that the Lord would keep me from every
evil, and from the tvil of sin ; that I ;may be kept, as
Mary, humble at the feet of the Lord.------1 was an­
swered, ‘ If pride rise in thy heart, Satan shall hum­
ble thee; but thou sayest, thou hast found me a God
like myself; and so thou shalt.’------1 said, ‘ Lord, I
believe it; and pray thee, keep me the remainder o f
my life, and may I drink deep in the Spirit of my
dear Redeemer, and, far as the earthly can bear the
image of the heavenly, so far mav I bear thy image.' .
•— — This was the prayer and desire of my soul, that
I may know this voice, and obey it.
One morning when I awoke, these words were
sounded in my ears: “ W ake, ye ministers; mourn,
ye priests; for the day of the Lord is at hand.’------
I thought 1 heard the sound of preaching in my ears .*
‘ The Loid is awake, as one out of sleep ; the voice o f
the Lord will shake terribly the earth. The sins o f
the nations hath provoked the Lord to anger. H e will
go forth as a flaming fire; he will be wroth, as in
the valley of Gibeon, until he hath brought forth judg­
ment unto victory.------------ These words were so
dreadful in my ears, that they made me tremble,
and I was earnest in prayer to God, to know if these
judgments was coming upon the earth.— — I was
answered, ‘ I will shew thee in visions, this night,
what I will do.” ---------1 went to bed; I dreamt
nothing, and thought I had listened to the voice ofa
stranger, and not of God.—— I was answered, * The
28
Digitized by LjOOQle
night is far spent; the dav is at hand ; lay thee down
and sleep aga n.’----- So I did, and dreamed 1 was on
a high mountain, and saw the Iky as br ght as noon­
day sun, and lWo men came out o f the clouds, with
long robes of purple and scarlet, with crowns of gold
on rheir heads and swords in their hands, standing in
the fky. Two men came out with heavy horses, and
spoke to those that flood on the clouds, and soon af­
ter rode away, like lightning in the air. Soon after,
I saw the men on horseback coming out of the clouds,
as fad as they could, till the whole skies was covered
with men in armour and spears glittering in the air.
I thought I looked down, and saw the world in confu­
sion, men in armour riding fall. This dream alarmed
ine; and 1 was meditating with what divine majesty
and splendor our dear Redeemer was coming into the
world. Once he came meek and lowly, persecuted
by men; but now he will come as aprincaand a king,
conquering and to conquer. Once he came meek and
lowly, riding on an ass; but now he will come riding
in the chariot of his everlasting Gospel. But, who can
abide the day of his coming, or who can abide the day
o f his wrath ? The saints shall see it, and rejoice; for
he will gather the wheat in the garner, and burn up
tiie chaff wich unquenchable fire,— Then t was an­
swered this psalm :
A sk, and receive thy full demands ,
Now shall the heathen bef
The urmost limit or the lands
Shall he possess'd by thee.
Til crush them every where,
A s mas?y bars of iron break
T he porter's brittle ware.'*
This made me earnest in prayer to God, to know if this
was Christ’s second coming into the world, to call in thy
ancient people, the Jews. “ is thy last coming when
thou comest to judge the world in righteousness
I was answered, “ Thou hast judged right " -— —In
prayer and praises I spent the day. In the night in
*ny bed, it was said to me, “ 1 will shew thee a vision
2 9 .
Digitized by
this night, that shall make the ears of those that heir it
to tingle." 1 went to bed, dreamed nothing. It was
answered, “ The night is far spent; the day is at hand.
Lay thee down to sleep again.” 1 was restless and un­
easy, and did not believe the Lord had said it, and
thought it was the devil to deceive me, and continued
restless from three to past five. I then fell asleep, and
dreamed 1 had somthing in my hand. I let it fall,
and it tu ned into a cup, and whirled up and down the
room At last it turned into a cat, which I kicked to
peices, and grew angry in my dream, and said, “ Satan
this is thy miracles; this is the way thou deceivest the
world, by whirling them in empty air, that neither
touch top nor bottom.” When I awoke, I was griev­
ed, and afraid I had sinned in going to sleep ; but I
was answered, it was the Lord’s permission, to shew I
might see Satan’s miracles, how he deceived the world.
This made the vyays of the Lord appear more to be ad­
mired ; and I meditated on my past vision, with what
glory 1 saw the Lord in the air, and with what swift­
ness the angels seemed to obey him. This set all my
soul on fire, and I wished I could fly in the air to the
Lord, and fall at the feet of my dear Redeemer.------A
powerful voice called me, “ Joanna, Joanna, the
angels rejoice at thy birth, thy Saviour embraced
thee. Dost thou think thou canst love him as he
Joved thee ?” These words yvent through my soul,
and I cried out, “ No, it- is that drawed my heart
after him in strong faith.’’
I went to bed, and was answered, “ I will shew thee
in vision this n'ght. I dreamed, I was in an orchard
where was trees standing together, the branches was
joined one in the other, and the fruit was fallen. I
dreamed, I was going to take them up. I dreamed
the Lord said to me, “ Open the shells; but
thou shale not taste of the first fruit; it is not good.” I
dreamed I opened the nuts-, for they was like French
nuts; but they was withered and dry, and a black veil
round them. The Lord‘said to me, **The first fruits
are
30
Digitized by G oogle
arc fallen; they are not good. Look up. and thou
wi.lcsee berries ; and when they are ripe, they will be
good." I looked up, and saw berries like the berries
of potatoes; and went to a house, where 1 saw the
Lord. He rose up, as one out of sleep, and told
me to go, and mind all 1 had seen. I awaked.
The .\ame night, 1 dreamed I was 'on the sea; and
I saw a large oven full of meat; and the stopper
broke, and the meat swam on the sea in abundance.
When I awoke, 1 was answered. “ Thy dreams puz­
zle thee; but wars and tumults shall aiise from
abroad and at home. The sea shall be laden with
ships shall break in pieces, and thousands shall launch
in the deep. As to the dream of the fruit, could thou
look into the hearts of men, thou wouldest see them
as the fibit withered."
Another night, I dreamed I saw my Father sweeping
out the barn’s floor clean, and would not suffer the
wheat to be brought in the barn. He appeared, to me
to be in anger. When I awaked, I was answered, “ Ic
is thy Heavenly Father is angry with the land ; and if
they do not repent, as Nineveh did, they shall sow,
but they shall not reap; neither shall they gather into
their barns. There shall come three years, wherein
there shall be neither earing nor harvest."
Another night, it was said unto me, “ I will shew
thee in dreams of my anger against the nations."—
I dreamed I had a dish in my hand, with dirt in it$
and some one throwed honey over it; and the children
eat it, for the sake of the honey, which made me sick.
I awoke with my dream. I was answered. “ So sick
is the Lord of the world. They eat the honey and
the poison together."
Another night, I dreamed I heard heavenly music
sounding in my ears, and a flock of sheep was gather­
ing round it. When the music ceased, the sheep leaped
for joy, and ran together, shaking their heads; and
one shook his head almost off, and seemed to have
nothing but ears. I went towards them, and awoke.
I wai
31
Digitized by G oogle
... I was answered, the sheep was the servants of the
Lord ; for they would be convinced, and trust no
more their own understanding, but be all ears, to hear
what the Lord saith.”
* Another night, I dreamed, I had a large bird, full o f
large feathers of brass gilded; and the bird flew down
on the room where 1 was. 1 thought to pluck some o f
the feathers, but found it impossible to pluck one, or
break one. 1 could notthink there was any interpretation
ofthisdream; b it I wasanswered, “ Itisthe determined
will of the Lord, that cannot be altered nor will no: be
pacified without repentance.’’ 1 thought with myself,
why then did I dream 1 tried to pluck the feathers or
break them ? I was answered, “ Thou hast strove to
alter the decrees of Heaven, concerning thyself, but to
no purpose. The will of the Lord must be done in thee,
and by thee.” This my soul would gladly obey.
The same night I dreamed I saw a little bird peck­
ing the feathers o f the great birds; but this w.-.s not
explained. As I was in earnest prayer, to kno -
. whac
all this meant, and where it would end, a heavenly joy
filled my soul, as though a company ofangels had been
singing in my cars these words .*
“ W hat good news the angels bring 1
W hat glad tidings of our K in g !
Christ descending from his throne,
T o bring his Father’s glory down.
Saints shall see it and rejoice ;
H ell shall tremble at his voice.
Saints rejoice, and sinners fear,
When he brings salvation near.
i
ews and Gentiles shall agree,
oin in Christian unity,
leathens, coming front afar,
Worship at the glorious ftar.
A ll the earth shall know the Lord,
And sing his praise with one accord.”
W hat follows, concerning the blasphemies o f Satan,
was written before the prophecies came to me, with
many more extraordinary things, that 1 went through
from Good Friday to Midsummer. As
# This book has been commanded to be printed like the ori­
ginal w i t h o u t a l t e r a t i o n s , except in the second page
hich wa? a blank leaf, this communication has been added,
vhich is to be read after the above.
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
S3
As I was meditating on the unbounded love o f Christ
to man,Satan’s blasphemy broke in upon me, *Christ’s
)ove was out of pride.’ Here my passions grew high.
‘ Thou Devil incarnate, (said 1) thou hast lost thy ho­
nour, and thou enviest that Christ hath retained his.
That was what cast thee out of heaven; because thou
would’st not worship him, and now thou enviest bis
glory, as thy proud rebellious spirit would not stoop
to worship him. But we have reason to love him; we
have reason to adore him. See what he hath done for
us. When thou seekedst our destruction, how did he
leave the heavens above, and come down in this lower
world, to suffer a sorrowful life and a shameful death*
for our sakes! How did he humble himselfon the cross
to make us happy, when thou, by thy proud rebellious
spirit, sought thy own misery and our’s! Thy pride
is envy and malice, but the pride thou speakest o f
God andChrist, is meekness and humility; and it is the
condescension of God to contain his honour. When
a man hath lost his honour, who will trust him? Thou
hast lost thy honour, and none but fools will trust thee;
butChrist contained his; and every wise man will go to
him; because he knoweth he will not deceive him. It
is the wisdom of God, to contain his honour, that men
may trust in him, and rely on him. It is for our good
he contains his glory ; but thou hast lost thy honour
with thy shame. Christ is worthy to be loved, worthy
to be adored, worthy to be had in everlasting remem­
brance, and worthy to be honoured; but thou hast no
honour belonging to thee.’’ Here Satan came in, with
dreadful blasphemy against God and Christ. This
enraged my passions, as I could not bear to hear any
thing spoke against God or Christ. I cried out **
Thou Devil, wherefrom didst thou come ? Canst thbu
dare thus to trifle with God ? Has thou not sunk thy­
self low enough already ? Dost thou want to bring
the wrath ofGod more heavy upon thee than thou hast
already ? Dost thou not know all power in heaven,
E earth,
Digitized by G o o g l e
earth, and hell, is in his hand ? He filleth the heavens
with his majesty; and therefore we worship him. H e
fills earth with his goodness; and therefore we ought
to honour and obey him, love and worship him., lie
fills hell with his terrors, and therefore thou oughtest
to fear him.’’
In this manner, I continued with Satan for ten days.
His answer and blasphemy was too shocking to pen ;
till I was worn out with rage and malice against him,
. I could not bear myself. When he would come in
upon me with blasphemies, my spirits rose as one in a
fever. My Brother hath sometimes took me by the
hand, and pitied my weakness, as he thought I had a
fever; for I told it to no one, for fear they would
blame me. I went out of the house, sometimes in
the garden; but the garden was not large enough to
contain m e; so I went out in the open fields; and
went from field to field to dispute with the Devil, till
I had got rid of him, and wearied myself out whh
passion- 'Then my spirit would sink low, and think I
Hiit‘all Job's troubles, and my friends like his ; for I
had no one to complain to. But I said,<
c Why do I
complain? Who was grieved for the affliction o f
Joseph? W ho was grieved for the afflictions of
Job*
Shall Simon bear the cross alone,
And oth^r saints be free ?
Each saint of them have got their own,
And there is one for me.
But now it is come unto my lot,
Let it not keep me from.
Lord, never let me be forgot,
T ill thou hast lov'd me home. ,
But could 1 die with those that die,
And place me in their stead,
How would my spirit learn to fly,
And converse with the deadf*
After I had thus sunk my spirits, a heavenly joy
would arise in my soul, with these words;
“ Gird
34
Digitized by G oogle
%
l Gird thy loins up* Christian Soldier:
'T is thy Captain calls thee out,
Let the dangers make three bolder,
W ar in darkne<* fear nor doubt.
Buckle on thy heavenly armour;
Patch up no inglorious peace;
Let the dangers wax thee warmer,
As thy fears and foes increase.
Lo, when dangers closely threaten, •
And thy soul draws near to death,
W hen assaulted sore by Satan,
T h y object then's the shield of faith.”
After I had written the blasphemy of Satan, these
•words came to me : “ As thy spirit was enraged
nnd provoked with the blasphemy of Satan, so is my
.Spirit provoked with the blasphemy of the nations:
And as thy Brother tried to hold thy hand from going
out of the house, and pitied thy weakness; so have my
Son tried to withhold my hand, and pitied the weaknesi
o f his people. But, as thy spirit grew so high, that
thou could’st hot bear it, but was forced to withdraw
from him ; so shall I, And as the garden was not
large enough to contain thee, but thou wast forced to
go out from field to field ; so the heavens are not large
enough to contain me. I shall come out of the heavens,
and dispute with man, if their sins and blasphemy do
not cease. As thou heard’st all this, and kept silence;
so have I. Ami as the fire kindleth in thy breast,
and thou speakest with thy tongue ; so will the fire
kindle In my breast, and I shall speak. 1 will not
always keep silence j neither will I be always chiding. I
shall awake as one out of sleep ;
And should ray wrath for ever (moke*
Their fouls must shrink beneath my yoke."
I shall add a few more words spoken in answer to
man’s blaming my following the commands of the
Lord ; as he judged it to be foolishness, and could not
be the Lord’s direction. I seemed to be answered
powerfully, as if the Lord had spoke to me in love
and anger, that man should not direct the hand o f the
Almighty.
E 2 la
35
Digitized by G oogle
In thunder now the God the silence broke,
And from a cloud his lofty language spoke ,
€i W ho, and where, art tnou, O fona and pre­
sumptuous man,
That by thv own weak measures mine would span ?
Undaunted, as it an equal match forme,
Stand forth, and answer my demands of thee :
But firft, let thy original be trac’d, *
And tell me then wfiat mighty thing thou wast.
W hen to the potent world my word gave birth,
# And fix’d my centre on the floating earth,
Didst thou assist me with one single thought,
O r my ideas rectify in aught ?
Declare my loving kindness to the children of men; and
my faithfulness and loving kindness thou shalt not keep
back; for my loving kindness I will never take from
thee ; and it is impossible for man to do it. I am too
full of majesty for man to attempt it*”
These extraordinary things have been now explained
to me.
36
“ As she so boldly for herMaster stand,
Then now in thunder I will answer men :
And firft let thy original be trac’d,
And tell me now, what mighty thing thou wast,
W hen firft I took thee from tny native duft,
And in the garden thou alone was plac’d,
Couldft thou brought forth the word as she hath donof
O r, like the woman, bear’d my only Son,
Without her aid, as she did without thine ?
I tell you, men, the myst'ries are behind.
A s from the woman you did all proceed,
T ook from your side, man is pronounc’dthe head,
But you must know,you are not the perfect man,
Until your bone is join'd .to you again.
So both together must in judgment s it :
And tell me, men, if her disputes were right,
T o say my honour I had ftill maintain’d,
And plead with Satan, as she hath began :
Then both together you shall surely know,
I have gain’d my honour by his overthrow,
FoY if the woman stands so much my friend,
You all shall find, I ’ll stand her’s in the end.
I f
Digitized by G oogle
I f from herself this love and courage came,
i tell you plain, she is th« head of man.
But ir from me the spirit first did fall,
I tell ypu plain, I am the head of a ll:
An 1 when her writings you have all went through:
M uch greater mysteries must come to yopr view.
So by tne woman now I will surely stand,
As for my honour she so long contend.
T en days he held her with his blasphemy,
T en days a hero she held out for me.
Then of these days I turn them now to years :
I ’ll prove her words, and man shall see it clear,
That every word was true what she had spoke :
I ’ll gain my honour, her words I'll never mock,
So if*men mock them now, 1 11 tell them plain,
T il gain my honour, to destroy si^h men.'
37
What you know not now you will know hereafter.
The first is last, and the last is first. The end of all
things are at hand ; that Satan’s kingdom will be de­
stroyed, and Satan chained dawn for a thousand years,
and Christ's kingdom established upon earth. It never
entered the heart of man, to conceive the glorious days
that are before those that wish Christ’s kingdom to be
established.
But as the dreadful thunder from the high
Brings down the rain and then clears up die sky ;
So must the dreadful thunder of his word
Sound firft aloud the coming of the Lord.
Then all your swords to plough shares you may turn,
T o plough with plenty your delightful land ;
And all your spear* for pruning hooks may be,
T o prune with pleasure your delightful trees.
No thistles then shall hurt the reaper’s hand ;
But peace and plenty flow throughout ycur land.
No prickly thorns to hurt thfc binder's oare j
For God will bind in bundle ev’ry tare;
And all the foxes he away will take,
That doth so spoil and hurt the tender grape ;
For now the singing of the birds doth come,
The turtle’s voice must sound in every land ;
But first his thunder must before him roll
To break in pieces the most stubborn soul;
s»
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
33
So now Isaiah’s words arc coming near ;
The day or vengeance I to all shall clear,
And all shall know what I had in my heart j
It was on mockers for to turn the dart $
Because by mockers I was crucified ;
And 'twns by mockers mydiciplcsdied.
And now observe the gospel and the law ;
And they in sunder did Isaiah saw ;
Then now in sun ter I will break the whole.
And back on mockers shall mv vengeance tall ;
But those that humbly for my coming w%it,
They ali shall find my pu-mbes are gr* :u,
I know the foolish virgins ami the wise ;
I know the discord thm will row 3
1 i>e.
Some will believe and eager \-b!i for me ;
.And the Detire of Nations they shall see :
While others mock, and will my love despise,
And when too late, they’d wish they'd been move wise.
This is the different conduct of mankind,
And different answers they shall surely find.
The one shall imd I am the sinnns fiif.ul ;
But all despisers now i'll tc-li their end.
lake Herod’s fury, I shall all destroy ;
For all my friends on earth I will enjoy.
And here, I tell you ev’rv line goes deep,
Lift up your eyes} I’ll saveir.y fright*d sheep,
Though unto some it setin a pleasant dream,
Like Jacob's sons, when I did them redeem,
That was to free from long captivity,
. A t firat a pleasant dream it seem’d to be :
But in the end, they found it was no dream :
Nor is it now ; Forman I will icdetm.
These verses were written in 1794.— — Now, I must
be candid with my Reader, and tell you plain, 1 have
not been one of them that build their faith on a sandy
foundation. I have been powerfully led by a Spirit in­
visible for 8 years past: and though I was strongly influ­
enced to write by it, as a Spirit invisible, and convinced
in my,own mind it was from God j yet knowing Satan
might come as an angel of light made me earnest in
prayer, that the Lord would be my Director, my
Guide, and my Keeper j that I might not be permitted
to say, *The Lord saith,’ if he had not spoken. In
answer
Digitized by G oogle
answer to my prayers,I had signs set before me of what
was to happen, to assure me it was of Gods that, was
1 to pen them all, it would fill a volume,and how true
they all came. Therefore, I have not imposed upon
the world with prophecies, till I was clearly convinced
they was of God, and-not from the Devil. The truths
of the harvest l put in the hands of Ministers, for
them to be judges, if it came true. The war con­
tinued, as I was told it wquld, in 1794, continue till
we were in war with the Turks, and then our arms
would be victorious, as you will see in what was an­
swered me in prayer; that as a God, the Lord would
begin like man, and make the same promise to me
that Herod did to the Damsel, My petition and re­
quest was, if, I had found favour in the sight of the
Lord, that he would defend us from the foreign e-
nemy, that the heathen nations might not say, ‘ Where
* is now the God in whom.they trusted?’ that Satan
might be cut off from the earth, as John the Baptist
was. I shall not mention all I asked in prayer; but
you will see the answer of the Spirit to it : But there-
are storms arising; and these that clearly discern the
days that are come w;ll shelter themselves against the
storm, and screen themselves when it comes; but thou­
sands will perish through unbelief, and many will per­
ish through want of knowledge ; but every wise man
will be like Solomon, search out the mystery, to
judge for themselves ; but fools will judge of things
they know nothing about, and stop, their ears, like the
deafadder, that will not listen to the voice of the char-,
mer, charm he never so wisely. By such I am sure
to be cursed ; but thus it must be to fulfil the'Revel-
ations. The Dragon was wroth with the woman and
cast out floods against her; and this he will do in the
hearts o f men: So I may say, with David, “ I f Shi-
mea curse, let him curse; for the Lord hath bidden
him.” — and as our Saviour said to Judas." “ What
thou dost, do quickly.” As to my friends, I love and
esteem them ; and my daily prayers shall be for them.
As to my enemies, I forgive and pity, knowing this
must
39
Digitized by G oogle
must be, to fulfil the Scripture : But they cannot hurt
me } for I am dead to the world, and the world to me.
By my own Master I must stand or fall. Deep-is the
mystery of my writing eight years, and keeping it seal­
ed up, and puting it in print the new century- This is a
deep type to the land, that I shall explain in my other
writings. Deep is the mystery of the tree of know­
ledge being good and evil— — — I am Alpha and
Omega, the beginning and the ending------the first
fiiall be last, and the last fliall be first: so the know­
ledge of the evil fruit came the first, the knowledge
®f the good fruit must come last.
I shall add some that arc mysterious at present;
but to me is easily known and the Reader will see it
clear hereafter. Could you see all my writings through
in one volume, you would be truly convinced it was
o f G od ; but that I cannot take out in a twelve­
month, how the Bible is all explained, and what shall
happen to every nation upon earth-
I shall now add the copy of a letter that 1 sent to a
Minister in 1796. after he had disputed with me, that
the marriage of the Lamb was to take place in heaven.
1 said. <
• N o; the marriage of the Lamb meaneth
when he cometh to unite all nations, to be as one sheep
under one shepherd, and Christ to be the shepherd o f
the whole The Lamb’s wife meant a woman. That
all these things should be revealed, and readiness was
perfect obedience to all the commands of the Lord,’
He seemed at a loss to believe it. 1 was ordered to
send him the following letter ;
“ N ow , this to him 1 bid thee write:
I f thou art not the bride,
T ell him to bring one that is right,
M y Gospel's so applied.
For to the fullness cannot come,
Until the bride be found
Out of her closet she must go,
W ith jewels deck'd around.
For here's the pearl of great price,
And unto thee ’tis given,
40
And
Digitized by G oogle
4
41
And are these jewels of no use;
Then she shall enter heaven,
In white appear before me there
W hile you in grief w ill m ourn;
And all shall know her words are true,
For vengeance fast shall come, *
In heaven the wonder first was seen,
And you may wonder here.
T h e woman cloathed with the sun
Shall make all nations fear;
Then let the stars begin to shine,
And publish my decree.
I f these refuse, i l l others choose,
Though fatal destiny
T o those that disobey their call;
'T is me she hath obey’d. -
T h e woman stands condemn'd by all.
W as man by her milled,
Then now by her he must come back
That paradise will regain.
In her FI l break the serpent's neck,
And will set free her chain.
She poured the ointment on my head,
And a good work she w rougnt;
And with her tears she wash'd my feet;
Let man deny her not;
For at the cross the woman stood,
T he sword went thro' her soul,
W hile my Disciples saw and fled,
And so they left me all.
N o woman in the company,
W hen hands on die was laid;
And Pilate's W ife did pity me,
W hen Judas had betray'd.
W hen from the grave I did arise,
I ask^d, who there was first.
Then let the sons of men be wise,
I f women love me best.
Have I her life and senses spar’d,
For to assume the bride.
Then let the sons of men beware,
T h at she be not denied.
More fatal now than Adam's fall
'T w ill happen to the man.
F
Digitized by G oogle
For in the dark the light doth shine,
Your eyes are dazzled here,
And will you shudder at the thought
T o see the myilery clear ?
O r w ill tou like the Jews of old,
Keep seals upon the tongue ?
O r Will you bribe the keepers here,
T h e truth may not be known 1
Then soon to others I’ll appear,
In.the highway I'll go,
And his command, without delay,
I bid thee halty do.
This publication that I have made to the world, is
to convince mankind the Bible is fulfilling and rear to
the end} and I must bring you to theApostle’s words
fVben thefullness of the time is come God sent his Son,
made of a woman, made under the law, a mystery no men
can explain. But the Reader will be ready t'> say,
** What makest thou thyself.’ 1 answer, “ I make
nothing of myself* I give myself up tojudgment of
men, for so it must be, to fulfil the Scripture. In
ages past, men was tried and condemned for prophe­
cies, until our Saviour and his Diciples put an enu to
that persecution with man, for prophecies have ceased
in so strong a manner ever since with man, as not to
bring persecution on them. Again, but be it’ known
unto all men, if it begun with the woman at first, it
must end with her at last; and now I must stand the
trial o f what 1 say, as I am ordered to put in print,
The woman in the uthchap. of Revelations is myself
the 19th and last. Therefore, it was written by Isaiah
Rejoice, tbouBarrea, that does not hear; and it is written
A ll her children shall be'jaught of the Lord, andgreat
shallhetbe peaceupon theeartb.This chapter is hid from
man’s understanding, as well as all the others 1 have
mentioned, now all men must know, the man cast the
blame on the Lord for the fall, and the Lord of life
and glory beared it on the cross,for man and by man.
The woman must cast the blame on the serpent, and in
the end the woman must cast the blame on him, and
he
42
Digitized by G oogle
he must hear it, as the Lord of life and glory did for
man. Pit-re I muse appeal to men's concicnce, if the
sentence is not juft? When the Lord cometh to reason
\v c’i man, and k is written, I v:illgather them together
at ;ke Valley of f /ioshajhat, atul plead with them there;
that meant th, that he will bring all nations low to­
gether as a valley is low, and plead with them by his
.Spirit; and by his Spirit he will reason wich man, and
make plain all his Bible to their view, but although I
say, it is explained tome by the Spirit, it must be'
judged by man, a.vl by the truch they must be adjudged
bom whence it came, but all these truth’s cannot be
put in print for the present. Little do men know
what is hastening on. 1 he dreams and visions, that was
shewed me the tndbf 1794, and explained to me, can­
not be put in print at present; neither was halfof them
ever shewed any man, but whac lean print of my pro­
phecies deeper I shall in my next part. But to shew"
my Readers how l have been led on by Ministers,
from 1792 to this present day, hath taken up so much
of my time in the firil part, so 1 have given you a short
account of many things; but, if faith increase in the
Readers so that many arc desirous of judging for
themselves, the books will come much cheaper. Let
no one th.nk me va n, in believing these wondrous
things are of God, and is come to me. I tell you all
it is but a mark for all men to walk by, to know the
end is at hand. The records of the Bible are now ful­
filling as it was first written, and revealed to a woman
that do not think so high of herself, as others might
think, if ip had been them. Whoever thinks high
of these things, let them be assured his heart was
never prepared for such a calling; but to convince
you, what is the shadow to me is the substance to all,
1 shall give you the following lines in verse.
“ If to my voice you will but hearken,
And obey my ftrict command,
You shall know, from what I've spoken,
T his shall be a happy land.
F a Like
43
DigitTzed by G oogle
44
L ike Jehoshaphat be doing; *
Never fight but with ray word.
Do vou know what I am persuing,
T o make all men know the Lord?
By the heavens (I'll swear no greater)
M ark the words I say to thee;
I have indited every letter
That was sent, tney all shall see.
'T is the wood that next shall kindle,
And I will make it for to burn,
Plain asthee didst hear the sermon,
Full as plain shall 1 return.
I f the first appeard a mistery,
Y et the next, thouknow’st was plain.
Perfect so, I now do tell thee.
I will make it to all men ;
For the truth shall come before them,
And I'll tell them who I am.
By prophecies my Bible stands
By every age was past;
By prophecies I'll make them good,
And prove them in the last.
And let them bow as low as thee,
Think of themselves no more,
And put their faith as strong in me,
Tnen all alike you are ;
For if oqe star dotn now appear,
T h e others soon may shine.
T h e firmament fix’d it here,
" That all may know my mind.
I said the servant was the chief,
But not above the rest;
Before nor after cannot be,
But with her followers blest:
And who they are, it shall appear,
That like her do believe,
And humbly stand with faith and fear,
I will not one deceive.
But as in order things do come,
T h e heavens do shew the sign,
T o what confusion all would go,
I f I should tell my mind
T o evervr one as things do stand.
Your nearts was not prepar’d;
And would you do as she hath done,
When I first warnedher here i
Y o u ’U
Digitized by G oogle
45
■ You’ll answer, N o ; the truth is to,
Y'ou would it not believe;
For higher wisdom you wouldskew.
And therein be deceived;
Because your wisdom you would trust,
And would not trust in me :
Then sure self-wisdom must be cast,
And think as low as she,
That in the man was merit none,
And she had none to boast;
But free my promise was to all
That in me put their trust.
So now then come, as she hath done;
Believe rny Bible true,
Then now as Brides you all shall be ;
The Bridegroom all shall know.
L ike David tirst, I'll be the last, %
And have more wives than he.
And Solomon did wisdom show.
And w ith th a n I'll agree.
But when began it was with one.
W as all together wed;
Then let my hundred wives become
M y royal palace made.
T o take you all alike, I c a ll:
M y hand and heart resign :
And now the marriage I ’ll read o'er
T o those that will be mine:
Wedded to sin you all have been,
Ever since Aclam's fail :
And ’twas from Eve> you do believe,
That brought it on you all:
So one was curs'd, the reft was cast;
There was moreover one.;
Then now the myftery comes at last,
And so turn back again;
For Satan came, the strong man arm’d.
And bolted every door, •
T hat scarce a virgin could be found
T hat was not tainted here.
T h is hath run thro* every vein,
T ill now the strong is come.
I ’ll make him tremble now like Cain,
And bring you back again,
now, like five, let all believe,
The Bridegroom is at hand;
That
Digitized by G oogle
That all the earth I lhall reprieve,
The Wronger, now shall hand ;
For Satan’s reign hath been fo ilrong
W ith thoufands he did clear ;
*Tis time lor David now to lead,
W ith his ten thoufands clear.
Your Mighty Counsellor, I ’ll begin,
Your Advocate and Friend ;
Then I will come, your Priclt and King,
Your Brother in tfie end*,
Your Husband too, you all shall know ,
For I shall all protect ;
And if by one you all came down,
By one then all come back.
Then all w ill be as wise as she,
Or yet as simple here ;
Then wives alike you all shall be ;
T h e marriage 1 shall clear.”
Notv I shall begin with the 19th chapter of the R e ­
lations. — After 1 had seen the trnth of my writings
come on, and my faith began to grow strong, in Janu­
ary 1794, I was powerfully visited with these words: I
will say to the south, Give up ; and to the north, Keep
not back. 1 will call my sons from afar, and my daugh­
ters from the ends of the earth.” — l was earnest in
prayer, to know the meaning, and was'answered.
“ Knowest thou not the words of thy Saviour, The king­
dom of heaven is like unto a woman having a little leaven^
which she bidethin three.measures ofmealy until the whole
be leavened? And now I will open to thy view the Re­
velations ; and when thou hast leavened it, thou shalt
leaven the whole lump; for, as 1 kept nothing from
Abraham, so I keep nothing from thee; for the Lamb
is come, land the Bride hath made herself ready. By
thy obedience thou hast done it; and the end of all
things is at hand.”------These words threw me in a flood
o ftears. I put down my pen, and was silent. I thought
it too high for me, and would not write it ; but I was
answered, “ The marriage of the Lamb meaneth the
uniting of all nations together. As marriage unites
two together, so the marriage o f the Lamb unites
all together, to he as sheep under one shepherd;
' ' and
46
Digitized by G oogle
ar.d Christ to be the shepherd of the whole. fey
the Lamb's Wife was meant a Woman, thit all this
should be revealed to ; and she should be in perfect
obedience to all the commands of the Lord. Readi­
ness is obedience ; and fortlfce to conceal these things
would be as wrong, as it would be in Mary to conceal
the nativity of Christ, for fear men should think it was
pride and vain-glory in her. Fear not the judgments
of men. The Lord is thy judge, and knows thy heart.
T o conceal the secrets of a king is honourable j but to
conceal the secrets of the Lord is sinful; for the Lord
will never reveal to man what he thinks proper to con­
ceal to himself.” --------- These arguments made me.pen
them, unworthy as I am to receive them. But, know­
ing it is not our merits, but Christ’s mercies, that we are
what we are,l was answered, “ None is iefore, nor aftes
another; none is greater nor less than another; but he
that is greatest amongst you let him be your minister; he
that is cluefest amongst you shall be a servant to you all.”
Deep and weighty reasons were as-gned to me, why I
had gone through so strange and^ingular a life, as my
Readers will ste hereafter. Then was explained to me
the 7th chapter of our Saviour in the Mount— The
. winds bUw, ai:d /be storms descended, and itje ll not,for
it was founded on a rook ; but he that built on the sand,
the storms- came and the wind blew, and it fell, andgreat
. was the loll thereof. The meaning of these words is,
“ The powers of darkness that hath strongly assaulted
thee, and all the powerful persuasion of thy friends that
hath tried to prevent thee : But thy faith fell nor •
, .for
it was founded on the Rock of ages j and the words of
ourSaviour shall be made manifest in thee and by thee:
But those that build in the sand, are these that build in
their own wisdom; and wheft *the winds blow,
and the storms descend, (that is, when the truth of all
come upon them) their wisdom will fall, and great will
be the fall thereof, for man’s wisdom will all fall toge­
ther.*’
When I had written these things, I was reading, one
Sunday, in the Bible, 21st chapter of Revelations, Come
hither,and I w ill shew thee the Bride,the Lamb's W ife,
and
47
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
r
'tndlii.t&rfiedme <vA,iy in f e spirit tintsAparent hi~J: tnonn^
join, vikeret Ifane the Nev.\Jerusalem decettd n? cutof hea- '•
:w » . H earing these words, I blushed, though alone b y
-Oayscjf, arid began to 'doubt b y what spirit 1had w rit­
te n ,-or what I had believed. I went tip, and was ear­
nest in prayer, was answered, “ Thou wast in the
,spirit. tHien j^^ii sawest the N ew Jerusalam descend­
in g , the host o f heaven; and thou wtest on
*a high mountain, where John saw* the Spirit. The S p i­
rit is the Spirit of G od,.that h uh visited thee. VVhat .
jdo they make o f the Spirit and the Bride ? W hat du . ’
th ey make o f their Bibh-s ?” .------But the explanation ^
these chapters I shall defer to a future p ublication.',,
. . .. ’ J E N D O F P A R T F I R S T . *
g < "ft . --------
* In my Secfod Party I shall acquaint the Bender with
*
■ fchat was explained to me, twelve Sundays, ft sn Micb±
* athna* to Christmas 1794*— I was ordered 10 fast ele*
' < van Sundays, and the Lord would sendme siren; ih from.
the sanctuary.* 1 went from the sccramint to my chant-
' her,*anddiffered dh/esgs were explained to me every
* Sunday— the type of ringing the belts for prayers in dif-
* fertnt partsheSs seme at seven o'clock some at ei^ht, at
nine, at ten, and at eleven—
^theone o'clock bell in the of-
t temdon, at all parishes, a great typefor all lands - the
"
* meaning of the seven sturs—qf the leprous fHen— why
* David was a man after God's own heart—the type of
Herod's destroying the children--the meaning op cir-
tumcision— tke second Chapter of Jiel explained—
rAha-
■ natiufi Creed explained—tbe type o f tire two candlesticks
at the altar-*arid what our Saviour meant, when he said
A$ the days o f Noalvand L o t were, so shaHthe co m -
» irig o f the Son o fM an b t—thinfollow-the dreavisand
visions, thatvvirflsheixit-rii'e in:tbe \'2 Hays of Christ- ^
- >mat 17^4, diidhow they Were' explained, and many
* . tti6re:.$tr{tfige things whie&IsbdWpuhlrshff&fthere is v
'' - nothing hid hupshall be made known\*whaPhath befit done
in the secret chamber shall now be revealed on the housi
*-1nop.f ' • - v : C K; '• /
>
.•* */■ ; ; v •
* ’ ‘ '
* *#* The firft prlrvtetlwfth ma#y£frbr% whieft
rem^in in }
thiAy betausc the book .was nptjolbkfi>fc$igaU
V ’[§eale, Printer/Tottenham-court-road ,
* .
#
■%
Digitized by G oogle •
„
SECOND PART.
- , f''y
■ i^
S
L
v■
< ; *
\
h
hjyk'M U Sy -beg*ta •awigiivionja;. -^a«Vh|j. -ivby
* s[xoi^ so^ much™ verse; - V c ^ ^ r ■• *
rcdmfi'ba'ttV vwtfs; ?.nd so is minc to’die Bible:- . •,
^1^ersg-gi>»$:an echo* aud it i< \he voice o? the?
Tom ecli'aing back to man. Consider bow ibahy •
»;,^^Yjcre'.the songs o f Solotnon-^fand .niiue.is indited
tlron^iblbmoii. ,; - : ‘ 1 ' v
* -’ '\
fr J ! *s l ••'-‘V
’v. -'** " — *
I sbalRddnmiende this part with tbe niystery o f .
^- -kthe Fall,, and Ti'6ty;it vt^asfExplained;
J’-’ •* “ *i'ivr ,,,'''
“ Over thq^aUa/iiii&'darJincss It is gnaiy ■
ly^ihing bitt .t&ffcrietis in thesoiwofwen j
AVI! how my Bi.i3lc wiH th.ey nil explain, ,
, l'or alt <
liu-lv jMyfings^jo bcbrougiit to light? -
I niiy. tire mfek’s-ttuv^ied from men's sight, «
. " In!ft torlj&en’s wistloivkfopjy to explain;
Ami b/mea’s wisdbms^hitjy it is done. »
.
% • Hut' tmw. I ovh thee, are inen’tjjatlgtfldlWS true
Atul now rH krmgit f>
l«
4bpr » tlty view
?' :
.V
- •t&
.;
noj^ I'M.bring it plainer
As iillimdti ,'ib;r%i tlfnir writings 1k*
i>
c,
4Bi,ihg ine-iii.’ ; 1 .it bis jadgmenfclear,
T jtat all aiiin i.r' is be rno *'j'v Aii)f<^ind;
iXitercVn’rfvtUnt mija.swn<k^w llw emlltly gt-otind.
. “ i"
i'nutSrl rtfisi^iniM
, by W
.’
■ hfnicluintrilrotu.tlftt 't'iwt _E<iitiun,
publihitcg^2ilth1AIitrcil', 13ut. .
■
Then in judgm ent men don't all agree, -
M y sealed ju ry still must sealed b e;
And by tire twelve men they must give it up |
I'll chusc another if that/tuiy drop.
^ The m ig lity .C o u ^ e llo rjrtr^ y su re ly be;/ ^
~ The Prince of Peace, that every one shalLarfc \ '
And when my kingdom doth begin to reign,
*Tisthen my Bible I will soon exp lain :
^ A stone o f stumbling it hath always been, .
. ' v R ocLof. defence l say is conurf^>n. f
The temple-gale I'll now throw open w id e; ' ^
And with the jew els will a‘lorn the B ride;
For as a bridegroom doth his bride prepare
*-o^^With cost1)’ jewels, whom he doth adore,
So"with all things I now will furnish tl.ee;
O ut o f thy chamber decked thou shall b e ;
A s in thy closet thou'rt directed there,
Bring forth thy jewels I do bid time w ear;
'.they say thou'rt black, but yet thy jewels fair,
, This is the Bride I said before Td chuse,
AH black, but com ely; let them bear the news*
, A s thou enqutr'st the perfect way to know,,*
Dccpe>and deeper shall my Spi lt go. .
^ In the beginning surely was my word,
To make man happy, perfect like his Lord;
In my own image 1 created man,
B ut littip lower than the angels then ;
Lord o f the earth I surely did him make,
And every living creature for his sake ;
And as aloiic he was not happy there,
I made the woman to complete it here, •
7'hat they in earthly blessings iriL-ht abound.
A nd to posterity rt might rtisoui.d.
B ut then the tempter s on did find the way .
Ttjci r peace and happiness for to b etray;
So that the ground was cursed for man’s sake,
because that he my covenant did bi;oiik.
Firm as the heavens my promise ever stood;
I did make all things, and pronounc’d them good*
1 And in the first place gave them all to man ;
, B ut now the other mystery comes on.
Because on Adam I did cn$t a sleep,
» I tell thee now the m ystery lies deep;
W hen he awoke, and saw the woman there,
He was amaz’d; complete his earthly care ;
' O r yet, Isa y , complete his cart hly bl;$s,
And at that time a perfect paradise.
B ut now 1 tell thee that thy pen goes deep-**
Close to the woman did the serpent creep.
50
*
Digitized by G oogle
Advantage o f her weakness he did take;
Theiefore in her Tit break the serpent's nock.
When I the helpmate did for man prepare,
(G o back to Eden, and you'll find it here;
For full as sleepy are the sons of men.)
This was the way the helpmate first began;
For in the garden she did stand alone;
And no\y the other mystery comes on.
O ut o f his sleep I did the man awake;
He saw the woman, and with jo y partake;
lie call'd her woman, ns she came from man*
.When jo y increas'd the sorrows soon came on 3
Because the temptcT he was studying then
How to destroy the happy son o f men. .
llis dark contrivance it did lie in h e ll;
Against-the woman did his malice sw e ll;
And man he envy\1 for the woman's sake,
Resolv'd by arts bis happiness to break.
Then as a serpent did to her ap p ear;
He knew a man would surely frighten h er;
Then as a coward lie did first begin,
A nd so he surely did in heaven the same;
Because his malice rose against the Son: *^3
B ut as his malice rose against those two,
I'll in the woman all my wonders do.
A re you r ways equal now, ye sons o f men,
F or to condemn the thing that I have dpnc ?
W as not the woman simply left-alone, ,
W hensubtilcly the poisonous serpent came ?
And by her weakness she was soon betray'd, *
*Tis ju st in her that I should break his head/
V)id man refuse to take the fruit she gave,
O r justify her how she was deceiv'd ?
N o— but upon her he did cast the blame.
Bring forth your arguments, ye sons o f men,
A s by your wisdom you can never sec
W h y in the Woman* every truth should be.
Had you ne'er stoop'd to eat the fruit at first,
Y ou never should have stooped at the last.
B u t now my flock I'll lead them by a child,
T ill all like lambs are brought into my fold ;
. A n d then niy kingdom shall begin to reign.
B u t deeper mysteries 1 shall soon exp lain ;
: ;For as in hell the arts did first begin,
To blast the pleasures that were coming on,
So now in heaven I say it is the sam e;
I see men's sorrows daily to increase;
I'll change the scenes and firing to perfect peace
B ut yet my thunder must before me roll,
51
Digitized by t ^ o o Q l e
To break in pieces the most stubborn soul.
From Cain and Abel I shall next go on,
For to explain the further fall of'm an ;
And then the mountain in the balance com es;
The little hills I weigh’d them in the scale;
And perfectly explain'd the woman’s fall.
But now from Cain and Abel let you see
I low soon the man like Satan came to be ;
For then the tempter did like fury come,
M ure like a Hon, when he tempted m an;
For when the shepherd he did first appear,
The tiller of the ground laid vengeance there;
So the poor sheep were simply left alone,
Their shepherd murder'd by his brother's hand;
The tiller of the ground was fled away :
Think on the horror that comes in one day—-
Pour out his vengeance on the sons of men. v-
K ow to men's conscience I will all appeal,
If he'd not make this world a perfect hell f
B y the short time lie did begin to reign,
Fast as the lightning did his fury run,
P our out his fury on the sons ot men.
W hat anguish must the parents now endure,
No friend to comfort, but their souls despair t
This jn my heart I surely felt for man,
Repent m yself I ever did him form,
And griev'd my Spirit to the very h eart;
-^LBut for mine honour it could not depart; ,
Because that Satan did my promise claim ; ^
Then all be wise, Oh, all ye sons of m en;
X ly promise great is turn'd the other way,
To these that will but my commands obey."
52
litr e follows what was unintentionally omitted in Part the First.
The words that were said to me, that the Lord
would begin like man, and make the same Rem ise
to me as Ilerod did to the damsel— whatever I ask,
“ ‘to the h a lfo f my kingdom,” should begiven to me;
lhy petition was, that Satan may be cast down,
Christ’s kingdom established, our laud delivered
from the hands of our enemies, and all nations
brought in.
Now thou say’st, thyself hast ended,
Now* I answer, so shall it be ;
Tor this nation I'll defend it
From the foreign enemy.
Digitized by G oogle
Think upon thy first amusing—
W hy is it thou art stumbled now ?
W as it not too great a spirit
To the Romish bands to bow ?
For I will have a strong army —
Jews and Gentiles shali agree,
' And my Spirit goes before them,
I will gain the victory.
Though-1 may awhile defer it,
Yet Fll not with this give o’e r ;
Why is thy mind's© greatly pujr/ledF
1 shall face'the foes once more.
A ll man's rightsT am renewing;
Can* this give a ju st offence ?
Those that gloried in my ruin,
‘ Now's the time Til n-cohiponcc.
For my servants I'll awaken,
And their hearts Fll fill with love;
They shall find they’re not forsaken
By their heavenly Lord above.
In heaven the armour's now preparing
That my soldiers they shall wear ;
But the breast-plate goes before them,
They have nothing now to fear,
W hen my sword begins to glitter—
And Fll put it in their hand;
r
Ik ey shall hear the words I’ll utter,
When i give them my command.
Now be strong, and stand courageous,
You have nothing for to fear;
B ut remember Herod's promise
To the damsel he did sw ear:
T o the half o f all my kingdom
I will freely give to th ee;
A ll the words that thou hast spoken
For this nation, so shall be.
By thy questions and thy answers
Thou hast pleased mf. so well,
'l liat I 1! now stand by my servant?,
And assuage the wrath of hell.
For in conquering flow Fll conquer
A ll the bloody whores o f R om e;
A ll their gods o f gold and silver,
Every one I will pull down.
For the Protestant profession,
Which I ever did adore,
I will now awake this nation "
For to love m e evermore.
53
Digitized by G oogle
When they’rc in the field of battle,
Then ray t1iunder it shall ro ll;
When the roaring guns do rattle,
1 will sound from pole to pole.
Then Til shout before my arm y,
They have nothing for totfear;
Tor my glory goes before them,
Their deliverance then draws near.
Though this while I have kept silence,
That their folly they may see,
’Trusting#to their combin'd armies, .
And they did not trust in ME.
Men they'll find arc false an t treacherous,
There can no trust be put in man.—
W hat is it that makes thee silent* '
And for to put down thy pen ?
Am I not the King of G lory ?
And they seiz’d my royal grace,
And my person they attended •
To a much securer place. —
W hat is it that doth thee puzzle?
W as it not in Gethsemane ?
W hy dost thou so strangely wonder ?
There the soldiers seized me ;
W ith swords and staves they did surround m e;
And that all of them shall sec,—
W hile my soldiers observed silence,
Peter drew the sword for m e.
1 will reason now no logger, V .
But come on to C alvary:
A ll my friends were mov'd with pity,
W hile my foes were satisfied.
So it was, when on mount C alvary,
I for man my life laid d o w n ; .
But I'll come again in glory, .
As a lamb that's newly .slain.
1 have answer'd thy petition; >
But thou’lt say, that is not a ll;
In the Scriptures thou may'st read it,
Satan doth like lightning fall.
-W hat have I to answer farther?
Every nation to call in ;
Th' heavenly pillars shall be shaken.—
W hat is it confus'th thy mind ?
A t the time the earth shall tremble,
And the Bridegroom's voice they'll hear—
Thou may’st end and go no farther;
A t that time thou’lt not be h ere: t
Digitized by G oogle
But th y sons and daughters standing
On this very spot will b e ;
And the days that they have long’d for,
W ith rapturous joys they then will s§e.”
Nov. 1794, I dreamt I was at a door, and saw
the moon shine very bright, I likewise saw a whole
train of men in long ctoaks, riding softly through
the air; soon after I saw tire whole heavens full o f
men, riding swiftly after them. Those that were
before began to move their pace, when they saw
the others come so swiftly after them. The whole
heavens were coveted with men ; and one man rode
through all the ranks towards me. I thought
others beheld it, as well as myself, and said they
never saw such sight in their lives ; but 1 said that
I had, before the war broke o u t; and then awoke.
This Dream was answered me in the following
jnanner.
“ Then now this dream HI answer unto thee?
The train of men, in their long cloaks to be,
A t first appear'd, and slowly on to move,
So slowly on, that thou didst stand and gaze;
Soon after that appeal'd ,as many more,
O r twice the number that did firstf appear;
In haste they rode, the armies they were lull,
The heavens cover'd, and thou could'st not tell
M ho was the m an that cross’d flic ranks all through,
And rode so very busty to thy view.
Then now the mystery I to thee shall show :
The armies that did first ride on so slow,
/ Display the dulness o f mankind below;
Their cloaks do cover, and no danger's near
Their passing softly through the very a ir;
Hut no foundation have they there to stand;
For quickly after come the hasty tra in ;
They mov’d their pace when dangers did appear.
So will it be with ail the sons of men ;
They'll move their pace when tkuv.ci-s d;> come on.
But as a m a n rode hasty on to thi e, .
The m a n of G od I say 'twill surely be;
And know, these dangers they arc nigh at hand,
And therefore to thee he will surety com a; *
For all these visions will be in the land ;
Digitized by G j O O Q l e
$<* • ' .
Because the wars most dreadful will abound ;
And in this land you'll hear the dreadful sound.
They are preparing, yet it is but slow ;
W hat's coming on, 1 say, they do not know ;
Their cloaks do cover, foi they trust in man,
And on the Lo^d th e y v o not all depend ;
But on the Lord they surely all must lean,
If e'er m y arm y com t^ tojo in with them ;
And then their work it will be dope in haste;
Consider well, my arm y r^dc so'fast.
This.was thy clream, that slowly came at first,
But in the end the arm y was in haste.'*
I judged the.substance past; but it is, said to me,
the substance is to follow.
I now shall give an account o f the Seven Stars,
which were explained to me in the following man­
ner. They were the sfeven mysteries o f God : The
iil-st was, when he made man ; the second, when
he made the woman; the third, the promise of re­
demption ; the fourth, the Angel appearing to the
Virgin M arv; the fifth, Christas birth ; the sixth,
Christ's death ; the seventh, his’ revealing the se­
crets to a woman, as one standing alone.
“ For as a sparrow on the house,
Thou say st thou stand’st alon e;
And with thee to assist’in ought,
Titc Lord well knows thou'st none.
W th Adam first this was the case;
For he did stand alon e;
And with him to assist in ought,
The Lord well knew he had none.
A helpmate then I did prepare,
Bone of his bone to be;
' When he awoke, and found her there,
Appear'd a mystery.
W hen by the fall he was seduc'd,
And out o f Eden sent,
He saw his follies when too late m
r
Y et he did sore repent;
B ut this repentance was in vain;
The fatal die \Jas c a st;
And he no pardon coulu ob tain ;
For all his joys did blast. K
But here’s another m ystery
I shall not long conceal; '
Digitized by G oogle
f o r the Messiah promis'd then
His deadly wounds to heal.
B ut how it then should be perform'd*
Adam he did not know ; '
His days were spent in sorrow great,
. Ills sons brought on his woe.
From age to age it was conceal'd
How this should be perform'd,
U ntil the Angel did appear
And did the Virgin warn,
The Holy Ghost should on her com e;
The power of the Most High
Should over shadow from above,
Appear'd a m ystery.
Though all the Prophets prophesied
This thing should surely be,
But in what manner was not clear,
Appear'd a m ystery
Unto the unbelieving Jews,
W henO hrist their king was born ;
Therefore they all despised him,
And did receive with scorn ; ,
But when he in the temple came,
Simeon the child did know ;
For God had warned him before,
And he did find it so : ,
The manner he should be brought in,
The very day and h o u r;
And when he saw the b a le appear,
He felt the Saviour's power ;
Therefore with raptures he was fill'd
To see the holy child;
B ut yet from him it was conceal'd
How they his life beguil'd.
B ut here's another m ystery,
That I shall not conceal,
T hat when he died upon the cross,
He did the nations heal.
Now think upon his dying words,
“ 'Tis finish'd," he did cry ;
B ut what was finish'd at that time
Appears a mystery.
Now to the Prophet thou must turn
To discern the m ystery—
Oh I thou desire o f uations, corne­
ls now fulfill'd in thee.
W hat is it now confus'th thy head f
. O r why thy pen put down ?
»
67
Digitized by G oogle
Hast thou not wearied hc&ven with prayers,
These truths might be made known ?
Then at what thou stumbled now, *
For thou these truths hast penn'd ? •T j
For thou hast wearied heaven with prayers
To God's beloved Son ;
T hat he will come ami intercede *
His servants’ wounds to heal,
And chain down Satan in his place,
T hat doth my servants foil.
Didst thou not come to me in prayer,
When threatening were applied ?
Had I been there, like M ary spoke,
u M y brother had not died.”
B ut here the words do puzzle thee,
As thou said'st they'd obey,
I f I would let them know m y w ill—
M y servants cannot sta y : •
Then now the meaning is the same,
For if they do me obey,
They sure shall live for evermore*
And that's most certainly. ,
’ Now thou hast ended with the sixth,
The seventh I'll begin,
That doth appear a m ystery
Unto the sons o f men.
A s ail these words do verify,
How can this thing e'er be, ,
T h at all the secrets of the Lord
Shall be reveal'd to thee.
Y et so they'll find it certain is,
The truth I'll make so c le a r;
I’ll leave no room for man to doubt,
When I have ended h ere:
For then they’ll find the little lump
Shall surely lump the leaven ;
And they shall find a single star
Is joined to the seven. ^
B ut do not think I've ended here,
O r thou thy work hast done ;
For all the mysteries of the stars,
They are not yet made known.
V o w back to Adam thou must go
For he was sure the first,
And when the whole thou hast pass'd through,
T hyself must be the last.
I f thou bear'st record o f th yself
They'll say that is not tru e ;
Digitized by G oogle
The servant is not greater sure,
N or can his words be so ;
For u' thy Master was denied
By his own ojioscn race,
JIow can th^ worth* be eVr applied
In these Jark evil days ?
W hen unbelief so much abounds,
Faith on the earth there’s none;
. Like Abraham ’s lot their faith be tried,
W ho otici’ti up his son. _
W here is ttie ma t that would obey,
The sacrifice prepare ?
It surely is not God’s com m and;
His faith would stagger there.
And yet they say there’s but one & ith,
The faithful that must be; .
So strong a laith on earth there’s not,
As I have found in thee. *
T hy faith is to the utmost tried,
By men and devils h ere; t
But when my promise is applied,
It keeps thee from despair.
And though I’ve put thee oft* so long,
Y et still thou dost obey, ,
Thinking my word I shall perform,
Though 1 so long delay.
This is the language of ^hy heart,
1 That, from my written word,
P eclaretli none shall be deceiv'd
/fhat trusteth in the Lord.
So shall it surely be to thee.
Thou shalt not be deceiv'd ;
Because I know thy inmost soul,
How strong thou dost believe.
Though some have laughed thee to scorn,
And others did thee blame,
Thy steadfast heart doth still obey,
And thou art still the same.
Therefore I'll own thee for the bride ;
Thou art the e v e n in g s t a r ;
B y thy appearance all shall know
That night is coming near.
The m o r n in g s t a r i* gone and past 5
The sun his eour-o hath run ;
The evening stai doth n ?\v appear,
And night is coming on.
Then in the night the stars will shine,
And in the midst arc seven,
. u 2 ‘ ,
Digitized by G oogle
*
W hich never shall divided be,
\Jntil the whole are leaven'd.
A s was the first, so is the la s t;
For Adam stood alon e; 4
His helpmate did not strengthen him,
But surely pulled him down.
So would thy friends have done by theo
If thou hadst thorn obey'd ;
B ut now the woman's conquering seed
Shall break the serpent's head."
60
One night I dreamed I was on a high place; and
there were two roads in it, and two waggons going
before m e; one o f them was so heavy laden, that
the weight of it broke down the path, and the
high hills were thrown down to the bottom. I
thought I had a waggon heavy laden myself, and
was going on the same hill in another path ; but
when I saw the waggon before me was gone to the
bottom, I was afraid; but the horses coming fast
after me, I was forced to go on with my waggon;
but cannot tell how I came down the hill, only re­
member that the other path M
’as b o u gh t from
a high hill to a low valley, and the wheel-ruts
washed away.
u Then now this dream that thou hast read to Mr.,
I'll answer every single line to thee.
► The iirst thou saw'st ii is gone before,
Bow'd down in piison by flu* human power.
But now I tell the<‘ that thy pen goes deep :
Thou saw'st the groun l did with the waggons sink,
v, Till the high mountains they did then come low ;
Deep was the vision I to thee did
So now I tell thee it shall sure come o n ;
Because my anger doth like fury burn,
Against the stubborn harden'd sons of men ;
And, like the waggons, I shall crush them down.
Therefore the waggon’s lading now for thee
' Thou m' st go on,and const not nowr delay;
* The horses close will surely on thee com e;
It is my Spirit for to press thee on.
Thou knowest how that Brothers is before,
W iich is the reason thou dost look and fear :
Digitized by G oogle
B ut by bis weight the whole it was pull'd down—
I know iny prophet’s in a prison bound,#
A nd in their hearts there's few for him do fe c i;
I'll break mankind, {is he did by the wheel.
It was his weight that shook the earth all th ro u g h ~
Deep is the vision brought unto thy view, ,
B ut to thy own dream— thou hast sutc forgot .
W hether the v augon broke tbc ground or n o t:
No, no, I tell thee *tis conceal'd from thee ;
Thou must go on, and 1 will guide the way.
The sons o f men will pull m y vengeance dow n;
For saint anu sinner* now do bring it o n ;
1 say they're sickly as they are lukewarm/'
All lands are in darkness at present; but as
I know the-end o f all things is at hand, and
it is as clear as the noon-day’s sun that the Bi­
ble is fulfilling, that all hath happened together,
I shall now give my readers the meaning of our
Saviour’s words, when he said, “ As the days o f
“ Noah and Lot, so shall the coming o f the Son
o f Man he.” In the days o f Noah they were
full o f unbelief; and in the days o f Lot the same;
and so they arc now ; hut the substance o f the
days o f Noah is in Genesis, chap. vi. where it is
written, “ It repented the Lord that he had made
man ;” notthat the Lord repented that he had made
man. Here is a mystery that men do not discern.
And the Lord said, “ I will destroy man, whom I
“ have created, from the face of the earth, both
<l man and beast;” for it grieved him to the heart
that he had made man. But was man destroyed?
You must ansWer, no. Noah was not destroyed,,
nor his sons ; and by them the world was again in­
creased to as large a number as before. Then
here is a mystery beyond the depth o f human com­
prehension, which I never di<eerned; and o f myself
cannot explain, nor can any war. by learning; for
in this mystery, man was preserved in a wonderful
m anner: though it giveth room for men to sav,
the Lord did not do as he said ;,as they feared to
give their God the lie; but was it man they would.
Digitized by G oogle
Now I will throw open my Bible to men. It re­
pented the, Lord that he had made man so subject
to the arts o f Satan, and that he had given him
such power over man; and therefore he caused the
ark to be erected, for the preservation o f man in
the great and terrible day o f the Lord. Now man
was so far from being destroyed, that the Lord
caused an astonishing building, for the reception o f
man and beast, whom he said he would destroy.
Y et in this extraordinary manner were man and
beast preserved. The Lord was grieved to the
heart to see how the powers o f darkness were
working man’sdestruction; but as the deluge over-
throwed the workers o f iniquity, so shall the de­
luge overthrow the powers o f darkness ; for that is
the man the Lord will destroy. It came first by
water, but now it will be by blood. For as the
ark was made to preserve man, so shall the ark o f
.the New Covenant preserve man at last; but it
will not preserve those that do not believe in
^Christ, as the full redemption for man. Now it is
said of all beasts that were preserved, they should
come to the ark o f Noah ; so all that will be now
preserved, must come to the ark o f the New Cove­
nant, and call to their remembrance the words o f
the Gospel, wherein our Saviour assurcth them o f
their full redemption in his blood, and sheweth the
signs that were set before them to lift up their
heads, for their redemption draweth near: that
meaneth a full redemption in the blood of Christ.
Now those that believe as Nqah believed the
deluged would com e: that meaneth, that the whole
world will undergo a great change; and the sword,
like the deluge, will go over the land, till it doth
destroy those that do notcometp Christ, and believe
in him for full redemption; but those that do believe
in him, as the Saviour of mankind, will be preserved,
as Noah was in the ark, when the man o f sin will be
cut off from the face of the earth, and that is
62
Digitized by G o o g l e
the devil. The Lord created all things in heaven
and earth; the heavens he created for his
throve, the earth for man, and hell for fallen
angels; and these must all have their fixed
bounds, when Christ cometh to preserve man,
as he did Noah, and lay the axe to the root,
■ ■ w
hich root is the devil; and he is fhe root o f every
e vil; for it is said to me, that what I have been
ordered to do, by sealing up o f man, is a much
greater preservation for man than Noah’s ark was.
Now marvel not thatthedevil was called man, whe,n
he called the Prince o f Glory, very God and very
Wan, because he took man’s nature upon him; and
so was the devil, very man and very devil, when he
entered into the heart o f Judas. This I shall ex­
plain more clearly at another tim e; but this is a
clear type of the last days ; and those days are nigh
at hand. The earth was never made for fallen an­
gels, nor for the man o f sin ; therefore be assured
he will be destroyed from off the face o f the earths
This is what our Saviour meant by saying, “ As
“ the days of Noah, so will the coming of the Son
“ of Man be.” Here I shall come to the days o f
Lot, and shew you what our Saviour meant by
that; but first I shall come to Sodom and G o­
morrah. The sins o f Sodom were men united
in e v il; and this is the type of men and devils ;
for as he entered into the lie-art of Judas, so he en-
tereth into the hearts of men; as he did into tlie
herd o f swine, and they ran violently down the
steep, and wcre.fhoaked in the sand; and so will
many now, that are so closely joined with the de­
vil as the men o f Sodom were. All this stands as
a typ e-of the. last days. In- every age o f the
world men have committed the sin with men,
when they use violence one against another; and
this was done, when they destroyed the Prophets,
and crucified the L ord o f L i ke ; and this you
piust consider was not done, before the devil en-
'63
Digitized by G oogle
tdred into the heart o f Judas; therefore our Sa-«
viour said, “ it should be more tolerable fo f
“ Sodom and Gomorrah, in the day of .judgment,
than for them for they declared their sins and
hid them not; woe unto their souls! but these
sins o f cruelty will never be committed, without
man being as closely united with the devil as the
Sodomites were to each other. And now the
time draweth near, that such men will be destroy­
ed, as Sodom was ; for as the angels came to Lot
ip disguise, and Lot judged them men; so the
angels o f the Lord are come, to warn all men the
night is far spent, and the day is at hand, that
all these things will be fulfilled ; and those that
believe, like Lot, M ill be preserved, as he was,
when the fire of the Lord’s anger will consume the
others. For you are to consider, it is written in
Isaiah, the day o f vengeance M'as in his heart;
and our Saviour said, “ Offences must first arise;
but M-oe unto the land because o f offences.” Per­
secutions I know will arise, and all will come, as it
was said o f Sodom and Gomorrah. Now in every
age o f the world sins as bad as o f Sodom have been
committed, by killing o f the Prophets, crucifying
our Saviour, and putting the Apostles to death; and
since those days, the Martyrs h;lvc suffered by the
same sin. Men and devils were uni ted against the holy
laws o f G o d ; as their’su'ere temporal, so all their sins
o f persecution lvere spiritual: for he that M
ras born
after the flesh, persecuted him that was born after
the spirit; and this hath been done by men in every
age o f the world. But now the spirit o f prophecy
is given to a woman, there will be many women
that are in heart and life joined to the powers o f
darkness, joined together in persecution against the
woman ; men will join with men, and women will
join with women, in persecution, that do not be­
lieve, to persecute those who do believe, till the
anger of the Lord be kindled to destroy them. So
64
Digitized by G oogle
it will end like the days o f Noah and Lot. But
were you to suppose it to be as the daj's o f Noah
and Lot, you must say there will remain but one
just man upon earth, and the greatest part o f the
world must be Sodonytes : But that will not be
-the case; for when the sin of persecution abounds,
grace will much more abound.
6s
I know the tliiugs that I have published are hard
to be understood, and full as hard to be believed,
which makes some marvel at them, and cast va­
rious constructions upon them. Some say, they
see do prophecies in them ; others, that it is from
the d evil; whilst some attribute it to fallen an­
gels ; and others conceive it as from myself alone,
asserting that all my foreknowledge is drawn from
the Bible ; and that I am out o f my senses. 1 shall
answer every one according to their different
words.
Those, that see no prophecies in them, do not
understand what they read ; the book is full o f
prophecies throughout; the letters I sent to the
ministers, and what was written in 1792, are deep
o f prophecy, and speak o f all nations in distress
and war .: the shadow is begun, aud the substance
is hastening o n ; but I cannot make the blind to
see, till it please the Lord to reveal to them the
tru th ; and if they cannot see it auy other way,
the Lord will open their eyes by the truth.
Now I shall answer those who say it is from the
devil. I f Satan is divided against himself, how
then can his kingdom stand ? And how came Satan
to know in' 1792 what the Lord would do upon the
earth, when it is concealed from the angels in hea­
ven, till the Lord is pleased to disclose it to them,
and to send them down to warn mankind thereof?-
B ut if I, by the spirit of the devil, am become a
true believer in Christ, by what spirit is the world
become unbelievers in the gospel o f Christ and
i
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
m
their Bibles, believing that their JBibles will sever
.be fulfilled in any other way than their judgments
point out? And that is no way at all; for while
one is inclined to this way, and another is inclined
to that, no man’s judgment can be true; so it is
impossible to fulfil the Bible to the judgments o f
m en; and therefore it must be fulfilled to the
judgment o f God. But where is the man that
knows his decrees ? For it is written by the Pro­
phets, “ In the latter days the Lord will do mar-
“ vellous things amongst them ; the wisdom of
“ the wise men shall perish; the understanding o f
“ the prudent men shall be h i d t h e n how can
men tell how to fulfil their Bibles, seeing their un­
derstandings are hid ? W ho by searching can
find out God ? or who can find out the Alm ighty
to perfection ? Y e t the world is led to believe they
can, from their knowledge and learning, find out
the mysteries o f the Bible, which no man can
maintain by arguments that their Bible is true, if
they have wisdom to find it put. ' Now I ask
mankind, by what spirit they are led to believe
things contrary to the Bible, and say I am led to
believe the Scriptures, consistent with the truth
thereof, by the spirit o f the devil? M ay not he
that sitteth in the heavens laugh,, to hear the folly
o f mankind, whom the Lord hath pronounced
dead as to every knowledge and perfection o f
him, saying he is alive to all the knowledge of
God, contrary to the written wofd of God, which
•the different opinions o f mankind verify and
.prove ? So let God be true, and every man a
liar, who saith he!can fulfil his Bible by learning;
and let those who say I am led by the devil, prove
it by the word o f God, if they can, and I will
-give it .up, .
Now I shall answer those who say, it is from
fallen angels, who wish to gain themselves in. fa­
vour with God, This to me is as great an erroras
Digitized by G oogle
the form er; for then the division must have taken
place in hell already. But can fallen angels, after
rebelling against God in heaven, and joining with
the devil, work in the hearts of men upon earth to
break the commands o f God, ever think to gain
themselves in favour with God again r This to the
is unlikely in the first place; in the second more
unlikely, to think by mocking o f God, by comiVig
as an angel of light, pretending he is the maker
and judge o f all men, and that all power in heaven,
earth, and hell, is his, should ever gain him in favour
with G o d : I say, this appears so improbable to me,
that if the fallen angels think it, they must have
lost their senses, as well as their glory. I conceive,
therefore, those thoughts to be the production o f
a weaker head, to judge it came from fallen an-
f
els, than mine to judge it came from G o d ; for
cannot build my faith upon any sgch sandy
foundation.
Now I shall answer those who say, I am, or
shall be out o f my senses. This I grant is true;
for out o f my senses proceed all my writings; and
so far from any sense or knowledge I have o f my­
self, so high as the heaven's are above the earth,
■ and how much farther they will go, I cannot tell;
but this I know, they are gone so far, that they
never will come back to the senses o f men, while
they are o f so many different opinions.— No judge
will give up his cause to a divided ju r y ; and I
must be no .judge o f my own cause, if I give it
up to a divided people: For the first minister I
ever spoke to on the subject said, it was from G o d ;
the second, that it was from the devil; the third
minister said, the latter gentleman had not shewn
his sense in what he had spoken ; the fourth de­
clared, that it was not from the d evil; and if not
o f God, it was o f m yself; other ministers said, it
was the disorder o f a confused brain ; and this
disorder had so increased over-the land, that every
1 2
67
Digitized by G oogle
one felt the fatal effects thereof: and I feel it to
my sorrow ; for the truth o f all my writings lies be­
fore, me; and I know I must go through evil re­
port, and through good report, through honour, and
through dishonour, as counted a fool, yet making
some wise : The bees gather honey from the bit­
terest herbs ; and those whose minds go deep, will
get wisdom from my foolishness, should it prove
from the devil, as some insinuate; but if of God,
as 1 judge it is, it will strengthen their faith to
stand in the evil day, and give them courage and
faith to stand against all the wiles of the devil;
for it is by faith yc must be saved. I have already
told you, and I now again tell you, the end of all
things is at hand ; by which is meant, that Satan's
kingdom is to be destroyed ; that all. nations will
be called in; the fulfilment o f the Gentiles, and
the calling in of the Jews.
Now I will answer those who say, if my writ­
ings are not o f God, they ave blasphemy. I grant
it, and give credit to their wisdom ; for it is writ­
ten, W oe unto them that say, the L ord saith, when
he hath not spoken; but he that hath my word, let
him speak my zvord fa ith fu lly , saith the Lord. Hea­
ven is my witness, I have spoken it faithfully in all
I have written; but as our Saviour saith, Thew ind
blmeeth where it listedh; andye hear the sound there­
of, but cannot tell fro m zvhence it cometh, or whi­
ther it goeth, so is every one that is born o f the
s p ir it; and perfectly it hath been often so to m e;
nor can I tell from whence it cometh, or whither
it goeth, but judge the spirit to be o f God, from
the truths of my writings, and the manner they
are spoken; yet leave the world to enjoy their opini­
on, and I to -enjoy mine, till the truth is proved,
which it certajnly will; for when the public have
passed their judgment on them, then will the Lord
convince them, whose judgment was right, and
whose was wrong. •
68
Digitized by G oogle
Now I shall answer those who say, it is pre­
sumptuous blasphemy. And this is the greatest
presumption man can speak, to say he knoweth it
is b la sp h e m yfo r he must judge himself more
than man, and have a high opinion o f his own wis­
dom, who will take upon him to assert, he know­
eth it is not o f God, but presumptuous blasphemy
o f myself. Let that man or woman make my
writings false, which with all their boasted wisdom
they cannot do; for I have now by me writings
for years past, which will prove the truth o f my
words; besides what I have put in print, predict­
ing what'is hastening on, and which a few years,
will fulfil; and many men will be convinced o f the
truth, that all cometh as I foretel. And wha£ a
proud, conceited fool must I be, to say o f myself,
J have more knowledge than the learned, and can
tell them better than they know, from my, own
wisdom ! Shall I say I know it from philosophy,
and do not understand one planet? Shall I say I
know it from divinity, and never studied the Bi­
ble in my life, any further than I thought neces­
sary for my own salvation ? Shall I say I know it
from other men’s works, when I put no belief in
any man’s judgment but the prophets and apostles,
and those who were inspired by the Lord r Shall
Jsay I had the spirit o f wisdom given to me, when
I never had any talents to boast o f in my life, and
was considered by all my wordly wise brothers and
sisters the simplest o f my father’s house ? And I
always deemed myself the same: but the Lord
hath chosen the weak foolish things o f this world,
to confound the great and mighty.
I must intreat my charitable Christian readers
to keep my first books by them, till they see the
end of the ten years mentioned therein, in page 37,
which was turned to the ten days, in page 34;
this was in 1792,- and the ten years will elapse in
1802; so they cannot judge clearly o f my pro­
69
Digitized by G oogle
phecies till they do see the ten years fulfilled, when
it will be evident to them. The reasons'assigned to
ftie for putting it in print the beginning o f the
century is, the hand o f the Lord will be close after
to fulfil them. Very extraordinary and strange
events will take place in two years, and more ex­
traordinary in four; but if fatal events, it is unbe­
lief will bring them o n ; for I now tell all men,
that peace and plenty, love and harmony, will ne­
ver abound in our land, until men are wishing for
/Christ’s kingdom to be established : then the Lord
will begin to change our scene o f sorrow into hap­
piness, which you will see in page 51, on the fall
o f man. A few years will convince you of the
truth o f my writings: the shadow is past, the sub­
stance is hastening on ; weight deep the lines that
follow the fall of man. But some will say, can
such^i promise be made to a woman ? 1 grant it
mysterious to be believed; yet remember the first
promise that was made to the woman, and theft
you will not marvel it should be the last. Consi­
der how great was the promise made to Abraham,
that in his obedience all the earth should be bless­
ed ; and though that promise is not yet fulfilled,
I am o f opinion it certainly w ill: But will you say
it ever was fulfilled ? then I answer, it was in an
age before I was born, and in an age I never read
o f
I shall now answer those who say, I go on as my
uilud is deranged. I grant it ; and so did all the
prophets o f old. Their minds were So deranged,
that Noah was judged an old fool, and Lot the
same. I should fill my book with how the pro­
phets were judged deranged, if I were to enter in­
to the list of them. But the deranged senses o f
the prophets and the apostles, and the words o f
our Saviour, have so farderanged my senses, as to
believe in them. IIow must Noah’s senses be de­
ranged, when he found.ho man belie\ e d :him ?
70
Digitized by G oogle
yet he persevered to go into the ark. And what
strong infusion must take place in his head, when
the heavens gathered blackness, and those who
judged his building the ark to be the strange ef­
fects o f faith, found it the fatal effects o f faith.
And how must Lot’s senses be deranged, when lie
saw the strange effects o f his faith, being judged
.by his own sons an old fool, become the fatal effects
o funbeliefto those who mocked him, when they saw
the fire come down from heaven ? How must his
senses be then deranged, when he saw his mockers
destroyed ? And how must my senses now be de­
ranged, when I see the strange effects o f my faith
kindling all over the land, and bringing the fatal
•effects o f unbelief over all lands? Can my senses
stop here, without believing, that he who hath be­
gun his strange work, w ill in the end shew his
darling attribute; and go on from conquering to
conquer, until he hath brought forth judgm ent
into victory; for mercy is his darling attribute,
judgment is his strange work : and strange to me
is all before me. Ho w men’s senses can be derang­
ed, when they see the sun is risen, and say the day­
light is not broke; in what a dream, or what a sleep
must such men’s senses be deranged ! and so they
may go on until they see the evening star appear,
and the sun begin to set in darkness. Will they
then say, I have passed my day in sleep; and it is
too late to arise and be doing; I will wait the ef­
fects o f another day? But let such remember, that
at midnight was a c r y ; and the bridegroom ap­
peared ; and you sleeped away the day, wherein
you ought to have got your oil ready, and your
lamps prepared. So in all ages of the world we may see
the strange effects o f faith, and the fatal effects o f
unbelief. A nd this our Saviour, and all his Disci-
■ ples, warnedus would be the end*; the foolish vir­
gins and tfar wise. For wisdom teacheth us to fear
the rod, and'he that appointed i t ; but folly teach-
71
Digitized by G oogle
eth us to despise low things, and climb to high ones;
as the seed o f Noah, who, because they had been
favoured in their forefathers, by being preserved in
the ark when the world was drowned, thought by
their wisdom that' they could build castles in the
air, to climb to heaven, and so be preserved, if.ano­
ther deluge should come; not considering that the
ark was built by the command of God, and they were.*
building by their own wisdom, whose wisdom the
Lord soon confounded, by dividing their language.
And now it is the same; men have built too high
in their own wisdom; and the Lord hath divided
' theirt speech and opinions. There was not more
difference in tongues and languages, to stop their
building o f the tower o f Babel, than there are dif­
ferent opinions now about my writings. Then on
whose judgment shall I fix my faith ? on this man's ?
or on that man's ? or on the Lord o f life and glo­
ry, who hath commanded us to have salt in our­
selves, and to judge for ourselves, and not for
another ?
I shall now reply to those who say, if I judge my
writings to be of.God, I must think myself a great
favourite o f heaven. I answer that I always con-
dered we were great favourites o f heaven, or our
Bibles could never be true. Can any one reflect
for a moment, and see what the Lord hath done for
man in every age o f the world ? what care and con­
cern he hath taken for him ; suffering his Son to
leave his Father's throne, and strip himself of all but
lo v e ; to change the godhead into manhood! and
trace his life from the manger to the cross; is it
P
ossible he would have done all this for our sakes,
ad we not been great favourites o f heaven ? For
what must the Holy Trinity feel! Could the Son
suffer, and the Father, not? Can we suppose that
the heavenly host did not suffer pain, to see the
Son o f God, the Prince o f Glory, sweating drops
o f blood, compassed round by men and devils,
72
Digitized by G oogle
f i .
tr e a ts with infaihy in Pilate’s hall, and offered up
as a malefactor upon the cross ? C a n we believe
that he suffered all this for our sake's, and not con-,
sider ourselves favourites of heaven r Should a
king say he would venture his life and fortune fof
his subjects, who were near ‘his heart, woula
it not Ik* an unjust returd for them to say, he did
not love them ? Should' they not rather sav, hi#
love hath kindled ours, w£ are greatly in favour
with our sovereign ; therefore we will hazard ouf
lives for him ? Now let your thoughts go deep and
you will perceive that the creature is a great fa­
vourite with his Creator. Man is a great favourite
with God ; for the Lord saith, M y delight shall be
w ith ike sons o f men ; and our Saviour saith, H e
th at doth the w ill o f my Father, the same is my
mother^my brother, and my sister; then are we
not great favourites of heaven ? A t what do ye aty
marvel ! Our Saviour said, W hat I say unt >o u,
I say unto a ll; G od is a fa ith fu l rew arded o f them
th at diligently seek hiyi. Tills was my deep rredi*
tation from my early age, which made me ju d g t
we were favourites or heaven, and caused me to
love1
and fear him. I f you weigh these things deep­
ly, I think you will join with me in opinion. C aa
you suppose the Lord hath shewn his love $o far to
man, and that he will leave him before he hatll
completed and fulfilled all the promises he hath
made ? What you so much marvel at, his reveal­
ing himself to a woman, is the least m ystery,.
when you trace your Bibles b ack; for aif the Bi­
ble is marvellous: you -will find so.it began; and
so it will end. +
N ow I shall come to the purpose. W hat a
wonder does this appear, that the secrets o f the
Lord should be revealed to a woman ! A wonder
$o great to many, that they cannot believe it.
And was not the first as great a wpnder as thelast.
itfien the Lord caused a deep steep upon man, ana
*
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
took one o f his bones to complete bis happiness,
and be robbed o f his purpose, words and promises,
by the arts o f hell, by the woman and the tree o f
knowledge that he placed in the garden of Eden?
J f you weigh this deeplv, you will see nothing more
to wonder at the woman’s bringing you the know­
ledge o f the good fruit, than her bringing you the
knowledge of the evil.. But all is a mystery—
“ And I shall put the mystery here:
Ask if the learned this can clear;
II* so, their talents they must shine
In wisdom bright that is divine.
Out of the dust I made at first
My perfect image there:
* I breath’d in him, it plain was seen,
My Spirit, bright and clear;
- And lord below, you all shalf know,
I did my likeness make.
I took a bone from him, 'twas known,
To make his bliss complete;
• J This I did do, Relieve it true,
Though man did it deny; '
.It \v$$the bone J took from mao ' ‘
Brought fatal destiny. , . ,
* Then here's a wheel beyond your skill
£ To answer my demand ;
<
. The man or me deceiv'd must be,
, N
If that my word don't stand.
If it do not, (perceive, youf lot,)
^ ; ' Then I must surely err,
1 And like thy pen the fall of man
f Must fall to rise no more.
But if I do, (believe it true,
*" My word I shall makegood,)
It was the bone I took from man
Should break the serpent's head ;
. And that at last mv word at first
I surely will complete.
The woman ne'er brought op the curse,
But did the serpent cheat:
J
: A mystery here there's none can clear,
Because the lines go deep;
But I'll appear to answer here, -I
And make the mystery out’'
•• >?ow, if my readers say they cannot see how this
can be made out, I will in the next part, render if,
74
Digitized by G oogle
to them, in the way it is explftinedto me, as cleat
as the noon day sun. But some readers will say,-
can we believe the Lord will condescend to speak*
in so familiar a manner to dust and ashes ? I an­
swer, how familiar did the angels appear to Abra­
ham and Lot, when they Came to them in disguise^
as men ? and how familiar did our Saviour appear -
in disguise to.his disciples ? I could fill a volume
with the freedom o f the Lord with men. ‘Angels
must first come to the similitude o f men, before,
men can arise to the similitude o f angels ; signify­
ing,. that augels must stoop to the imperfections o f
men, before men can arrive to the perfections o f
angels; and there can be no perfection in men, till
they are all o f one mind: for every man’s way is
clean in his own eyes; but the Lord weigheth the
spirit. N ow I have promised to give up my cause
to the opinion o f twelve ministers, if they are o f one.
m ind; and till they are, 1 am the judge myself, -
that the same Spirit that indited my writings, in­
spired all the prophets throughout the B ible; and
i f I err, they did the same; for one Spirit inspired
the whole. Whoever deny the truth o f this, let
them bring forth their arguments, and shew their
strong reasons; and I will bring forth mine, such as'
no man shall be able to answer me one word in a
thousand: For the Lord hath a controversy with
his people; therefore now give ear. O heaven 1 and1
be thou astonished, O earth'! for the wonder o f the
woman is come unto men. I f there be any sense
or understanding in them, they caunot lead over
these two volumes without wonder and amazement^
if they judge it is not from God — that a woman
hath life and senses to>be a mocker of G od; ade-
S
eiver o f m an; and a defier o f all the powers o f hell,
espising him as being-the author o f all our misery:
but there is help laid upon one that is mighty, to
keep us from all his power. But on what power
can 1 rely, i f I am trilling with die Lord, -to say
• - K 2
' 7^" .
Digitized by G oogle
tfcaf all my writing* cam* from him,whentbe
Lord hath not spoken. A? to men, they see I neif
tper regard, their smiles, nor fear their frowns ; nei­
ther am; 1 dismayed by their words, but say with •
David, I f I am vile, I shall still be viler; and if
I have brought you wondrous things at first, l
shall bring you far more wondrous things at last—
* 7§
Till. Adam's wonder will begity
And so I say ’twill end with meji;
~ Til^Adams here will all appear,
To see the Bone of man;
In every seal my mind reveal,
And give it to youi* hands.
j 1 ara sorry to disappoint my readers, by not in­
serting in this book all I promised in the last; but
ufhat use is my publishing what the world do not
Relieve, till 1 have convinced mankind from the
Bible, and put to silence the tongues, o f foolish
people, who do not discern w hat they read, and .
■ jghat they profess to be judges of? I marvel at the*
''a p p le speeches I hear from some; how it 1$ pos­
sible, that a people in a. Christian land- can be sot
yoid o f understanding, as to say, I have kept a jour­
nal o f what has happened for eight years, and now
put itj, print as prophecies; then I must have shot
beyond the m ark,, and overshot myself j for they
are informed’ in my first, part, that I have placed,
letter* in the hands o f ministers, stating what
would be the events o f years, and that the truth *
followed. I f I have published lies, is it not easy>
to find out the truth, by demanding who thhse mi­
nisters are? I f I refuse telling, then let them say, 1
am an impostor. Every circumstance which re- .
Jates to 1793, I have living witnesses to prove l..
wrote in 1793, and never had the seals in my posn
session; so I have not imposed on the world by
false report#, the Lprd is my ju d ge; and 1 can clean
m yself w ith the tputh o f a li i b&vfs&idaind don*
» ..
Digitized by G oogle
r r
The unbelieving world, that mocked fny writings
last year, are now fulfilling the very effects I said
would follow the‘harvest. I was then cursed b y
buyer and seller; both farmers and tradesmen
boasted o f the plenty, and called me fool and old
w itch; said thst I deserved to be hanged for tell­
ing them they would be disappointed, and perfectly
informing them what effects would follow the har­
vest, and they are now fulfilling my words. 1 shall
answer such tools according to their folly.
“ So if a Prophet is denied,
Then say the witch is come.
Who can ioretcl what will befatr"-*
Fm jesting now with man;
After their manner I do speak,
As I have often done;
But soon my. futy it will break,
And to the purpose come ;
And then you’ll find I am no witc!^
Nor do the lines agree;
But when my hand begins to touch.
Your witchcraft you trill see;
That one another you’ve bewitch'd,
And one another blame;
But when my lingers you do touch.
I'll put you all to shame.
So boast no more of yoqr great $tore.
Till you can make it good;
And let your oaths 'bout pie be o’er,
They're fallen on your own bead*
I warn'd you all it so would fall,
And you did notj^pKeve^ •
Can no one judge from whence the catyf
Yourselves you did deceive.;.
So now take care, 1 warn you here,
O f what is.hastening on*
That if the sword doth now appear*
The famine next will come.
As in the paper was decreed, *
You'll find it come from heaven;
And if your oaths make my heart bleed,
Then now the lump I'll leaven,
That is to fall upon you a ll,'
And vengeance now Fll take;
For if your mocking still gpes.oty
My sceptre l will shake.
Bigitized by G oogle
My rod before doth now appear,
And threatens now by man,
That they will see the harvest clear,
Or else the rod shall come;
And so 'twill fell upon you all,
If you do not relent.
Then see the witch that you did call,
To hang was your intent:
But now see clear, the danger's near,
To turn the other way;
You have more reason now to fear,
Than see the judfement-day.
1 said in Spring it would begin,
And you would see it in Lent;
And as the shadow’s now begun,
Be wise,’or you’ll repent.
For deep you’ll see the mystery
Of all was said before; '
And mark from me what I did say,
And May will-eoon be here;
Then you may see your destiny
To hasten fest in May.
Your fortune-teller was despis’d.
And to be put away;
The Spirit you have try’d to quench,
And prophecies despis'd.
Reflect, in May what you did say,
And now you may grow wise ;
Or May 'twill be, you all will see,
A fatal May for man,
If you in confidence agree
The Prophet to condemn;
Then you shall see your destiny,
What I will put away;
And every mystery will come round,
AsT before did say.
Let May appear, my hour is near
To turn it back on man;
Then for the powers I bid you prdy,
The heads now of your land.—
This I'll jexplain another time:
But tell you this of May,
You all will see such destiny,
T a judge what I do say
Is spoke one year, and not appear,
Another hastening on
For me to make the mysteries clear,
And prove from whence they come. ■*
Digitized by
*
G oogle
Could they tfecerp'howl do warrir '. * < >
No learning can appear,_ r
To shew 1 shall bring on the storm, .
And every*danger's ndar.”
' I dreamt 1 saw a large castle building, with large
bow windows and boards before them. 1 thought
the wind rose high, and carried the boards up in the
air, and that they fell back again in the same place.
I said they must be fastened to make them remain.
“ My house is building now a-new,
My scaffolds 1 shall place,
The boards must keep the storms and rain,
For they shall want no glass;
For my partition must be strong,
The glass will never d o;
. You'll see the time before 'tis long,
I'll bring it to thy view.
Strong, firm partitions you must build,
Which stones cannot destroy:
I say the storms are rising high,
For those that don't enjoy
A steadfast and unshaken faith
For to rely on me ; *
Fatal scenes are coming on,
That every soul shall see.
For every proud and scornful heart
I certain will bring low;
For fatal years are coming on,
That every soul shall know.—
And when thy writings are brought forth,
They'll say this is the year
, That 1 pronounc'd my just decrees,
And England sure shall fear.
The last year I my threatenings sent,
With cold and hunger too; 1 ’ •
But now 'tis chang’d the other way—r *
jn i bring it to thy view: r) r
The weather mild, my smiles descend, ' ‘ ,
And now 'tis just the same; /
Man with his Maker does contend,
But does not know my name.
Sin in your land does still abound, *
As 1 have said before; . >
If Satan's come for to condemn, _ '
Then sinners sure may fear; - ■ ** .
But if'tis I tbat do reprove, ; 'j
I bid mankind awake;
JPor if that they do slight my love^
M y sceptre 1 shall shake."
Digitized by L i O O Q l e
m
fc&tnp'xre ffte three chapter* ofJoet together, be- .
ginning with thefirst— “ Hearthis, ye old men, and
“ all the inhabitants ^>f the land ; hath this, been in
“ your days, or in the days o f your forefathers?-
Now look back on all the records o f history, and
ypur BiblCs, and see if all things have ever happened
together as they now are. Were I to go through the
chapters which relate to the Jews at that time, aiuL
what is for Jews and Gentiles now, I should take up
too much o f your time; but I shall come to the
purpose. When the Lord was doing any extraor­
dinary thing in the land, it was to bring about
some strange acts, and some extraordinary event
was to take place. Now compare the words o f our
Saviour with the words o f the prophet Joel,and see
if such things have happened in the days o f your
forefathers, as have within half a centuFy. 'Nation
hath risen against nation, city against city ; five
nations have been divided against themselves with­
in the space offorty years; wars and rurooursiofwars,
perplexities and .distresses o f nations, and almost
the fear o f a famine, which we have heard from a-
broad and at home; and hath ail this passed unno­
ticed? Men imprisoned for prophecies; yet the spi­
rit o f prophecy doth not cease, but nwfeh more
ahounds; and so do sorrows in all lands abound;
then see if all such thingShave ever happened to­
gether in the days o f your forefathers,* Our;Saviour
said, “ I come not to. destroy the law and the pro­
phets, but to &|$|r them;” but were the prophets’
words ev-er fulfilled ? yet Joel’s words must be ful­
filled, when the Lord cojnejth to. pour out his Spirit
upon all flesh. Compare those words with tfte words
o f our Saviour— “ When ye-see itWthese things, lift
“ up your heads ?fer, 16! your redemption drawetb
“ nigh.” The word, o f the. L w d spoken by tne
Prophets, and the words o f oar Saviour, and his
Apostles, are4all fulfilling -together, $ow the
Digitized by G oogle
prophet Amos, in chap. iii. ver. 7, says— “ Surely
“ the Lord will do nothing, but he revealeth his
“ secret unto his servants the prophets.” But will
you say, the Lord hath not done it ? Is there evil
in the city, and the Lord hath not done it? Will
the lion roar where no prey is ? The lion hath
roared, who can but fear ? The Lord hath spoken,
who can but prophesy ? Bring the law and the
gospel together ; for as a chain is linked together,
so they must be fulfilled together. I have given a
very short account o f what is explained very
clearly.
The 5th of November, 1794, was explained to
me in the following manner:
“ As Moses was a type <t Christ, *foretold
B y all the Prophets you have heard of old,
November is a sure and certain sign
How it will end with all the human kind.
The plot at first resembled that of hell, “
•
, XVhere the infernal fend does ever dw ell;
The. arts of man resemble all mankind
That to such master do their spirits bind ;
And in the manner they have kept the day,
So in like manner ail will pass away.
Some o f you now regard it not at a l l ;
Belbre that day all such must surely fa ll;
Som e are like madmen drunken at that day,
And so like madmen some will pass aw ay;
Some sport with fire, and they do not know
O f any reason why they've kept it so ;
But yet with fire some will pat?s aw ay,
A nd be consumed in that awful d a y ;
Some sport with rockets mounting in the air,
Tiie fire does sparkle, you may see most clear)
So will the fire sparkle from on high,
Aw Lthon too late for any one to fly ;
Others by ringing make the echo sound,
The clashing bells in every parish round;
W hile some their songs of loyalty do sing
In honour to their Saviour, Lord, and King.
\ This is the different conduct, of mankind ;
% . And those the different answers they shall find.
For when the letters were first blaz’d abroad,
Then every one pursued his different ro ad ; *
L
81
« Digitized by G oogle
T •
So whtti thy letters are first blam'd abroad,
Then every <ue will seek his diilcient roach:
They’l l seek at first the truth tbr to find out,
But 1will make it plain, they've nought to doubt*
For in tue house the light man h ire the name,
- For whom the letter was when there it cam e;
Because k tul Providence did order so,
. That they tt.e ce.tain truth might surely know;
So when the right imm eometh unto thee,
W hom i have mention’d so repeatedly,
Then the? dark my stmies will be brought to light,
Am i plainly shewn to each believers sight;
And then the different road they will pursue,
To prove to man that all my words are true.
Some will in transport wait for that glad day,
W hen they their King in triumph sure shall see;
The heavenly music will sound in their ear,
And they will long to see their Lord appear
In all his glory for so bright to shine,
And eager wish for that appointed tim e;
"While lukewarm Christians they will little cane,
A nd say, if we're in Christ, what shall we fear $
\jfhat farther hopes have we for to believe ?
I f we're in Christ, what more can we receive?
B ut such professors are lukewarm to me,
And much more hateful than the sinners bei
Because that they arc loyal to th e ir king;
But lukewarm Christians w ill no honour bring.
The duy appointed they shall never seft
N or with the Bridegroom welcom'd is shall be;
Their lamps gonebut, and I will shut th$ d oor;
The jo^lish virgins shall ndt enter there.
Now to the w icked thou must quickly turn
For thcie my anger shall like, fury burn.
Now change these lines, and thou wilt quickfy see
How well with reason all this doth agree.
Therefore let no* one blame the Romish bands,
. N or the most spiteful Jew s, nor heathen lands;
For they m yself so much I do not blam e;
Because they've, never heard a Saviour's am e;
B ut those that do profess to know my name,
And. by their conduct do deny the sam e;
Them o f high treason I will sure condemn* r
A nd lay it heavier on such sons o f m en;.
For once my anger does begin to smoke,
Then sure such souls shall shrink beneath my yoke.
Now from this type a w arning! do give,
How every one may now begin to live.
Digitized by G oogle
In 17$4 I dreamt I was on a high place; but I
■ could noftell how I came there. I thought I was
in a large room, that had got two bow windows,
out? of*one o f which I thought I looked, and saw
<the clouds working in a very strange mannet, with
a train hanging double, that had the appearance of
‘ gunpowder; and a most extraordinary sgpctacie
did the working o f the clouds in heaven exhibit.
I was ordered to pen it, and it Vas explained in
the following manner:
44 This is the very m ystery o f thy dream,
The worfcin^of the clouds I shall explain;
For in the heavens I say 'tis working high;
B ut there comes on another mystery ;
For the dark train it myst to all be known,
The fury o f the Lord is coming down ;
But hanging douhly surely it would be, ♦ .
And every nation shall my fury sec; * -
Y et as thou know st not h *w thou didst come there,
So all's u m ystery I to thee declare. . *
To know the will of God, h ow 4an it be?
Thou know'st to man it is a-m ystery.
I ask of those that do my Spirit biame,
•A m I not God, as yesterday the sam e?’'
[The remainder o f (hi* dream shall appear in Pari III * ]
In 1795 I dreamt there were two boys sitting by
the fire: one of whom, hearing he was to be killed,
turned himself into a rabbit; and they were com­
pelled to dash bis head in pieces. I thought the
other l*Oy said to me, you will not kill me, will
you ? the Lord is too merciful, and you are too
pitiful. 1 thought l took the hoy up in my arms,
hug gee} him to my breast, and said, no; I would
sooner kill myself, than hurt you. Simple as this
dream may appear, very'deep is the meaning. I
shall give the explanation in the following manner:
if
44 Then now Unto thepurp . v ium art com e;
. jjust like the boys are all the sous ot men.
. Thcrii*'knuw’si that one turn’d bin^elf to a beast,
W hen d&uh upon him*, and his sentence cast,
W hich made.1. easy him tor to destroy.
£ u t now thou’rt come unto the other boy;
1.2 , > •
» *
• . 83
H Digitized by G oogle
84 ■
. . . «
He saw the other did before him die, *
And then for m ercy he did humbly cry*
He sought thy m ercy; it he did obtain,
Thou hug^>l the child when he did sore complain.^
'Twas I that brought this vision to th$r view ;
Just like thy bream I with mankind shall d o ;
For such as humbly now to mf, do come,
t I say, like thee, I have freely died for them ;
3VIy arm?; are open,and I will em brace; ,
Eut woe to them who turn themselves to beasts;
For like the other they shall surely die—
To kill the beast it is your common c ry ;
This is the language you have got below,
And kill the beast when anger you do show.
And now my anger shall begin to burn,*
I f men to beasts themselves they now Jo tu rn ;
And to the righteous (they are all asleep) *
I tell thee now, the wheel-ruts will grow deep/'
Simple as this dream may appear, it is.deep and
weighty to the whole land. .
The following lines were explained to me, in
answer to the chosen men disputing.
“ But such a mixture in these men is found
A s grieves my so u l; I am provok'd to hear
T heir yokes; their bonds asunder I shall tear. *
N ot join ’d together, how can any draw ?
Backward and forward now my plough enlist go, *
Jangling together; who can hold the sail ?
I say, the ploughman they must think a tool, *
To let his hillocks thus go in the plough; *
Break up the furrows I do ask'thee how ?
Thou knou’st the sull will go out of the ground?*- ’
W hen Furh a jangling** in the harness found ; ■
For if a id e the harness don’t agree, '
' • No m ii can plough the ground, 'th known to thee,
T ill they’re took out, and others are >ok’d in ;
Then to that very purpo.-c. I will com e: *
For, as a husbandman I’ll do the same;
U nhss their madness I can calm lv tame,
And in one harness they will all agree,
M y plough is ready liyr to set them free; •
For, as a husbandman I’ll now appear,
Brcjik up the ground, and leave the fallows bare.
A man o f w ar I surely now w ill be, *
And leave no foe without a victory.”
# +
Digitized ^ G O O ^ C
as
The following lines were explained to me, when
X was ordered to send my first letter to one o f the
dignitaries of the.chujvh,
“ Now like the psaljn I shall begin;
M y name shall fly abroad;
Anti let the heathen nations hear
The sentence • f the Lord.
So with thy letter now begin,
That thou nuM sen • t o — —
The so Is of many he shall win,
li lie my voice will hear.
M y W'inis before li m they must conic,
And let him wcgh them deep ^
For now my time is lutly up,
If Livjland non d e shop.
Out of riieir dream they must awake,
If they preserv’d w Jl oc:
M y ron atul sc: tie both I'll shake,
it men ho not obey.
G reat i> my piomise if they do,
But thro nings are severe ;
And they sh<
*
1
1find my v.ords arcTtn®
Before I've ended here.
So with thy letter now begin; *
For I shall all men try ;
And if they to the purpose come,
v ’1 bey'll surely find me nigh.
Shock'd with surprise he'll surely be,
A s you this day begin :
A nother time I shall explain
The meaning of the thing."
The. Sunday after I had sent the letter, the re­
verend gentleman's text was from Hebrews, chap­
ter iii. verse 7— “ Wherefore, as the Holy 'Ghost
“ saitli, to-day if ye wiil hear 1ns voice, harden
“ not your hearts," &c. When I came home, be­
ing full of doubts, I was answered—
“ O thou o f little faith, why do*t thou doubt, .
Because all mysteries thou caiift not find out?
I suid in b y e - p a t t h o u must first go through,
Unhang the gates, and o’er the stiie> must g o;
Then in the gap i bade thee fat* to come,
O r in my fury I should throw all dow n;
Then in the gap I bid thee now appear,
M ake up the breach, as Moses diu before,
And from the text 1 said I'd fix it there*
Digitized by G oogle
The Ilo ly Ghost to thee is surely tom e,
T is he inspires, it must to all be known.
From place to place, and heart to heart I go,
And hnow before what every man will do.
Out of bis mouth to-day he did declare
T hat very text that brinks' the substance h ere;
For like the text I say I’ll surely d o ;
I f men will not obey, and own » r true,
Provok'd to anger, I shall soon begin,
If men deny, when thou hast told my mind.
And now I tell thee, if thou dost draw back,
Thou ami thy friends in pieces l shall b reak;
B ut let thy friends with thee in this agree,
Then by their faith preserved they shall be,
A s all thy writings are in a straight line:
And can they prove tho writings are not mine?
No greater judges then they must appear
Than thou wast of the sermon thou didst h ea r;
And that thou say’st thou didst not understand,
So wilt not justify, nor w ilt condemn.
So to mankind I now do say the same,
I f they’ll not justify, they can't condemn ;
A nd to thy judgm ent they must give it up,
A nd 'tis by thee the curtains must come back 5
For he that preach'd it i r w the judge must be,
And now I tell thee so must it by thee,
I f that thy writings they can't understand,
B ut say it is out of the reach o f man,
To judge aright of things that arc too high, ^
Then to thyself they all must give the day."
a
One night I dreamt I saw men in the air, who
pitched with their horses upon the eartli; the horses
fought furiously, and the men fought furiously;
and so frightened me that I awoke, and thought
the French would land; but I was answered in
the following manner:
“ 'Tis not the French,os thou dost now suppose;
The scnrlet dye was on the soldiers’ clothes, *
And on the. earth for battle firm they stood:
Thou know'st my garments they wcie dipt in blood.
No more in Bethlehem doth the imant lay,
B ut now in heaven my wouders shall display;
A place for horses, when the San of*God
Unto mankind his coming first was know'd;
And as the horses do the harness wear,
So let them know my chariot it is near.
' \
85.
Digitized by G oogle
These heavenly visions shall to all be known,
That in my chariot 1 am erm ing down:
No more in swaddlings doth the infant lay,
B ut now I’ll come in glory's bright array,
And a true Saviour now i'll surely be
To those who put their trust alone in m e.
But darkness o'er the earth will sure abound ;
Y et you, enlighten'd land, his praise resound*;
T he glory o f the Lord shall in thee rise,
And his salvation shall be in the wise.
Conqueiingto conquer 1will now begin:
Rejoice, ye lands! wilh jo y and gladness sing/'
This dream is deeper than any man can possibly
imagine. „
I shall here introduce a parable, that was inter­
preted to me at the time Campion was executed
for committing a riot, and who was dra\vn.to the
gallows guarded by soldiers; near about which
time a mill-stone was broken at the very mill where
the riot first commenced, which shook the earth
for four utiles round, as report then stated. It was
explained to me in the following manner;
• “ I said the thief with me did surely die,
W hen I was murder'd on M ount C alvary;
A nd now the sight much like it doth appear,
To let them know my chariot-wheels are near.
The stone was broken at the m ill, 'twasso,
It shook the ground, let all the readers kuow.
The swords and spears thou wheUcst all in vain,
F or to prevent the lime is coining o n ;
And know the-sceptre I shall surely sway,
And save the soldiers who do m e o b e y ;
T hat is, to act according to my word,
And let them know that l alone am L ord ;
A disaffected man they all call'd m e ,
And said the tribute I refus'd to p a y ;
Then now tor tribute I shall p«iy them a ll;
M y sword and gun do loud lor vengeance call.
That very man to Paradise is come ;
Unto the cross he brought me back again. ■
And .uow my sword it shall like fury smoke,
The hearts of men I ’ll surely bow or break,
Ju st as the m ilestone did before the time %
I say of a ll men they are totally blind,
87
Digitized by G oogle
O r like thy sister, head-strong wisdom growil,
And think their gods and they can rule alone,
W hen that the hearts o f none they can command/*
St. A thanasiu s’s C reed paraphrased.
“ The Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, these three
M ake one true God in perfect un ity;
The Father is the giver o f them a ll;
The S-rn is the redeemer of the fall;
The H oly Ghost did to the Virgin come
To make the Trinity agree in o n k .
The Son did come,-man’s nature to assume,
That man again might like his Maker com e;
B ut litre’s a mystery I'll to thee reveal,
That I no longer shall from thee conceal:
That God and Man must tirst united be
For to Fulfil the glorious T rin ity;
The Trinity anti Unity are one,
A perfect peace then made with God and man.
A nother mystery lies still behind,
That thou in no ways out the truth canst find,
W hich thou must gather from the trin ity ,
Though jo in ’d in one, inferior man must be.
These things that I to thee have now reveal’d,
A re from the wise and prudent men conceal’d ;
Because the Son of God, when here below,
Has said, to babes he would the m ystery show.
One person of the Father is the Son,
A nother of the Son is surely Man,
A nother of the Holy Ghost proceed—
The woman’s doom’d to break ike serpent’s Head.
N ot o f herself she any, thing could do,
But by the power of G <
d these things are tru e ;
The Godhead of the Father and the Son,
And of the Holy Ghost, these three are one;
'The glory equal, and in majesty
Make one true God in perfect unity.
This is the ia.th that all men must believe,
If they again will perfect be r ceiv’d ;
For by the Christian faith we arc com pelI’d,
That we with God and Christ be reconcil’d ;
Then every man in Christ shall be made lord
.O f every I leasing he doth here afford ;
Am i woman by tne Holy Ghost shall come
To-full perfection, equal with the m m ;
Boat* o f his hone, arm flesh like his become*
Dividing substance, hut in heart as one;
1 1c >um thu' s planted in the viigin’s womb,
Not oi herself, doth to perfection c u n e ;
88
Digitized by U i O O Q l e
N or no perfection could there be in man,
T ill by God V wisdom they were join'd as on e;
M ade heirs-of God and Christ; and heirs o f heaven
Shall be their seed, when the w hole lump is leaven'd.
So now you r Saviour's words you plainly sec,
They are made perfect in this Trinity ;
None is before nor alter, neither then^
Because in God they are all perfect men.
How can this Creed be e'er made out by man,
W hat they do not believe nor understand? i.
To keep it unrietil’d there no men do ;
Then all must perish, if men’s words are tro d
B ut here's the m ystery now made out by God,
W hen all shall keep it by his holy word."
I shall now explain the faith of Abraham, when
he went to offer up his son Isaac, in whom the
promise was made. But how could it be fulfilled,
when he was dead ? would be the faith now a-day.
u But here was Abraham 's strong faith ;
Let Abraham now appear :
B y charity he follow'd me,
O r else his faith would err.
Because o f me his thoughts were high,
O r faith would soon been dead;
H e would have stumbled in the way,
W hen he to th' altar led
His only son, to all was known
The promise there was m ad e;
B u t when 1 bid him offer up,
Then faith must sure be dead;
The child be dead, the promise fled,
And it,m ust be in vain/
B ut charity was found in he
The promise to ob tain ;
Because he judg'd me as a God
That would not man deceive.
This way the gloomy path he trod,
In charity believ'd,
That if his son I did demand,
A nother I'd prepare,
To bring it to the promis’d laud
T h at.l had said before;
And on m y word he did depend, ,
And so did me obey ;
He judg'd me faithful in the end,
A nd so went on his w ay;
M
. 89
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
v 0<V '
And then the altar did prepare,
And boundthe happy child.
But now the mysteries I shall clear:
; When both together, mild
The son demands to see the lamb
The father must prepare;
The father took and bound the son,
To prove the lamb was there.
When this was done, the voice was known,
• Which did them both surprise—
Now, Abraham, stay thy bloody hand,
And cast about thine eyes;
Let go the lamb, and take the ram;
He's in the thicket caught;
Then like that lamb let men become,
The victory shall be wrought.
For my sons they are fast bound,
And opt he altar cast;
^ut Satap's dpojn^nust 90 come .sound
To be the ram at last.
But here thy mind is puzzled now,
And puzzljng doth appear;
Can Satan e'er a ram be called i 0
n i make the mystery, clear:
Comparisons have always been:
The serpent was of mb,
When in the wilderness.was seen,
The brazen serpent, see;
And yet it was a type of MB t
Then marvel not 'ti$ so,
That I compar'd him to a rara,
That with m y,flock doth go,
For to defy and huyfe my sheep,
And lead them all astray. '
Now by the horn he shall he caught;
The thicket's in *be way:
If men like Abraham do begin,
I will my spns unbind; <
The walls which Satan made so Strong,
Shall with hlsborns.come €k?w
ur. '
The walls of Jericho must fell;
The ram’s horns must appear:
But let the sound be kr\own to ail,
T is I have $poJt«& it herp.
I shall throw down, and now build up,
That you may. stand secure; ;.
And build upon a firmer hope,
Than you havo stood before;
Digitized by G oogle
91 .
Because my mind I have conceal'd
From all the sons ot n.e »;
But when the mysteries aie reveaiM*,
Then will your hopes he known."
A
Now I have given you a short account o f Abra­
ham’s F aith, and what a type that was o f the last
days. Our faith is what we judge of God ; but as
it is written, “ False prophets shall arise and de-
“ ceive many,” I shall give you a short account o f
what they are: They are those who prophesy out
o f their own hearts, and have seen nothing.; and
deny the true prophets of the Lord. Fvery mail
that pretends to say things that will not come to
pass, as it is written, “ Maketh himself a prophet,
“ and prophesieth out his own heart, and deceiveth
**all that believe him.” Too many false prophets
are already gone out into the world, who have pro­
phesied false things and deceit; whom the Lord
neither sent or commanded ; yet they pretend to
prophesy, and deceive many thereby. T h :s 1 shall
explain more clearly hereafter, and shew you, from
the written word o f God, that true prophecies must
be given, and the Bible clearly revealed to man. It
is not the sword o f war that will open any man’s
understanding.; it is the sword of the spirit that
must bring men to the knowledge o f tne Lord)
or men would abide for ever in ignorance.
The following lines were written in answer to
men’s saying, that the Jews would be convertedi
and that many had pretended to prophesy, as I
had done.'
*
* Vain are thtir thDog!bts;,td thinll th ttT
Shall e'er convince them in the way
That their yam notions ndw suppose,
Which make my Gospel of no use.
\Vhat profit was it for to pen
What never is'of us^ to meti ?'
But Bible's tbroWn:adftfc,
Since now jny Spirit is denied.
m 2
Digitized by G oogle
Bring now the woman, let her come,
That writes or acts as thon b»*t don e;
Then an impostor thou shaft be,
And say another acts like thee.
No woman ever did assume
To say a child was ever born
As M ary did the son o f God ;
Such thing was never heard, uor kfiowjd. . . . .;
Now where's the woman will appear
To shew herself the bride so clear ?
I f such a thing was ever done, ►
* I will no longer guide thy pen. » >■
So all gainsayers now stand still, . ' *
It is your God, it is his will • . .
To vindicate the lawful bride, .
• To shew, his Gospel is applied ;
And then as brides I’ll make ye all, <■
'
That on my name for m ercy c a ll; - * . , -
And all alike I'll join to me ;
’Tis but a mark that ye might sec . .
‘ - That all my Bible is made cle a r;
- For like the Jews the Gentiles a re ;
; It must cctne perfect to the word, . . *
O r they’ll deny it is.from God :
Now *tis come perfect to the word ;
- Let Jews and Gentiles know the Lord/'
- t ■ ’ » t
. As I am coming to-the conclusion of my Second
Book, I must beg the' serious reader will weigh
deeply the First Book; and call his attention to
what was said fn 1796 (see page 14); and which was
spoken in verse. 1 must also call his attention,to
ftie’lStlV page,' and earnestly intreat him tt> weigh
deeply what was spoken in thc Psalms, page 20;'
matk well .the letter that follows;, and the cross'
and dots for words, which, though he cannotread,
are deep and weighty, and were sent to the mi­
nisters in words that are concealed from the pub­
lic ; and he will liqd there is concealed from him
what is hastening on, that he knows no more of
than the dots he cannot read ; for. the one is as
much concealed from him as the other, at present;
92
Digitized by t ^ o o Q l e
s
so lie must wait till the ten years are expired; and
then he will clearly perceive the truth o f the first
letter. •
I have understanding, as well as you all. I
must beg your attention to the Second'Letter:
Unto whom have you done despite ? either to the
Spirit of the Lord, or to me; if to me, no judg­
ments' can follow; but if to the Lord, they cer­
tainly will. For in ajl ages of the world, when
men mocked the words of the Lord, the Lord
said, I will laugh at their calamities, and mock
when their fear cometh. Then you will perceive
you have all seen through a glass darkly; and
read the book as a man vieweth his face in a glass,
andgoeth away, forgetting what manner of man
he was, and is therefore obliged to return to the
glass to recollect his features; so you must re­
turn to the First Book, to recal the prophecies, if
you wish to be Judges pf what you read. The third
letter you are fulfilling, if you could read the dots,
that stand in the place o f words, wirere it is spoken
o f and concerning Egypt; but, like blind men
judging o f colours that will not bear the day-light,
so many have judged o f my writings, that when the
truth is come to light, theirjudgmentswill not bear.
I shall next call your attention to the contents
o f page 26. Talk no more so proudly, lest your
pride should have a fall. For some readers have
not discerned a word that'they have fead.; while
others have weighed deeply, and have not exer­
cised themselves in.things too high for them ; de­
sirous o f being more clear in their judgment, by
seeing more o f it.
I shall conclude, by answering those who say,
my writings are the production of some minister
or another'; and that 1, like a fool, have signed my
name to other men’s works. A t this so strange
93
Digitized by G oogle
as&rtitiii I cafitiot but matvel; Btfing ai A loss
fd conceive, ho\v any mafu who has read1 five
books through, can be so destitute o f understand*
?ng. He, or they, must discern ini what manner
they are put; the truth is easy to be" foarid out’;
and h&d it been my intention to' impose on the
public, t must have shot considerably beyond'tM
mark, and overshot myself. M y soul is provoked
to hear what wrong constructions some readers
have put upon my Writings.—
94
“ But barren minds, like barren soil,
M ock'the C ultivators toil.
Though you soW the choicest se&l;
It produceth chaff and wded;
So if chaff and weed appear,*
I will burn the fallows bare,
Until the ground is fit for wheat, '
And then you'll find!you r trops'are tjreht*
B ut, Oh 1 what s£Cd shall I now sow,
W hen every blade, of wheat I know
Is compass'd round so full o f weed,
T h erels no rodni for it to breed ?
Then if the weeds so fast'do grow,
Kfy wheat must'all lie Chtj^k'tl^ I knotty
Until I*make my fallows barfey
And like a husbandman appear, ■ f
To cleanse niy ground, and burn the"weed,
And then my whdaf I knOtfwill brefedf.
And so thiSyertr I will£6*oil':
I f nought but weeds ; the vfecd9 1*11 butii ;
And when your harvest does appear,
K o more complain of s c a n ty y e a r;
For full as sCatity l see ihati
To speak rhe truth, or jiulge my h atld ;
F or if believers do appear, „
They’re choak’d with mockers every wliere.
•Then 1will surely mock the whole,
A n d choak the harvest for you u ll;
U iih*srmy sdrvfafits’do b#gfnr -—,
To pull the weedsthat nbw?do spring*
So very fast to choak the blad<^
. N o com at harvest to be had. y
. B ut now the mysteTy I’ll explain ;
The word o f God's the seed 1 mean,
Digitized by G oogle
T hat lijke them anna eom esjropj ,
And angels' food to man is given,
W h ile in the wildcrire$9 you stand,
And ty&lp.you .to th e promised land,
That you will fii^d is now befoJie?
And you may see the Canaan shores
The blades that I have call'd the wheat,
A re those tfaiit judge the calling great, *
That they frojji Sptan shpll be fre e :
A nd Pharaoh was a type o f he.
The weeds that do so strong appear,
A re unbelievers every where,
That choak the heart, it cannot grow ;
So here’s the.Gospel and the Law, 1
T hat 1 shall closely join in one; *
And to the Gospel now I’ll copie.
The husbandman doth now appear,
T o sow his seed both far and n ear;
And as the tender blades do spring,
The enemy the tares doth bring ;
I saw his seed amongst the w h eat;
Then soon you'll find the harvest great;
For both together now may grow ;
T o weed the tares too soon I know
T h at all my wheat I must destroy;
Then who my harvest can enjoy Y
So both together let them spring,
U ntil my reapers do begin
For to cut down both wheat and ta re ;
Then T il divide my harvest here,
And alt the chaff it soon shall fiy,
A nd all will find my harvest nigh ;
'For every m ystery I'll explain,
W hat is beyond the heads o f men."
I shall finish hlhis Book with remarking, that
the two publications I have produced, are as hard
to be understood, and as hard to be believed, by
the Gentiles, who are under the Gospel, as the
Old and New Testaments .are by the Jews, who are
under the Law. In my next Book I.shall throwi
open the Bible, and bring 4$ thjngs to your re­
membrance, and come to tne pijrpose with Jews
a n d G e a f c
Digitized by C j O O ^ I c
Book, I prtj,mise to insert.in the next, .provided
do not hear too jhuch.cj^&M.ictjoh b y #»en, few $
me to,hold a eon fro ^ # -% ith . Therefore, no«-;<
give eaV,v0 heavei3s’C ^ d ; be astonished, C ^ S
-Jj earth ! the Xo^d hatJv a’ controversy with his ?*
*y> * eoP ^ ~ "
, 1 ; . J o a n n a S d it f k c o iik - |
March S3, 1801. , . . ’
'•v>-u «
:
•'ii* 5 i V
"T ' -
■ •
y * h '-■ *
t*
* * 4#
(
■ a :
.)U
. o‘S .hs-),. .
® % i f U
.r V v
I- f
l ___
......
,n ?h;' -i at >
,w .--r, jjf'ftif
LOXDOWtf ' ' '••i*v •••'.
•i <. c,i
.,,;1 Crt h
fPrice Nine-Fetid'J'
t
; .4
The Strange Effects of Faith,
* * - <
T H IR D P A R T ,
I
ShaR begin this Book with the explanations oftKe
: other two, and the meaning of the tftifd chapter
of Genesis; The two volumes of hooks are. cfeep;
and weighty, which I must call your attention’ to*,
and request you will compare them together(the.
first and.second) how they'.Will be fulfilled ; 'andj
wbkh Fshall shew you in ^hi^ljibk. But now I .must
direct your thoughts to the third chapter of Genesis.'
The first ^prophecy that was given, was to. the scr-^
pent; the second to the woman; and'the third toi
the man. Now I shall shew you how it . is ex-;
plained ; and bow it will be fulfilled you will see in.
die volume of this book. ~T o me it appeareth, as
Clear as the noon-day sun, just and right for the’
sefpent‘ to bear the blame the woman cast on him,.'
if the Lord, of Life and Glory bore on the cross the
blame which man cast on him in paradise, when he
fe ll; for those are. the reasons assigned to me why
lie died’, which I shall shew you in the following
manner; but this, must be judged by the world at
. ' 1 . N large.
Jteifrinted bv S. Rousseau, Wood Street, Spa Fields, from th$
* tirst Edition, published May 19, 180U
Digitized by G oogle
large. ’ The writings that I am ordered to put in
print, are to try wbat is in man, to open the eyes of
the blind, and to unstop the ears of the deaf, that
the dead might hear his voice and live. And now
I say unto this land, if this year that hath begun in
60rrow, does 'not end in joy, it is your own faults:
for England may be a blessed land; and the first
redeemed of all the earth ; be able to boast in the
God of their salvation; and see every enemy fall
before them, spiritual and temporal; for the fulness
of the Gentiles is the calling of the Jews; and in this
book you will find it written, how your full redemp­
tion must come. But as the Lord hath appointed
ministers as shepherds to their fiocks, so all who
read this book, if they cannot understand it, ought
in duty to appeal to their ministers; for they have
as much right to demand their judgment, as the
ministers have to demand their money for preach­
ing ; and the sacrament binds and commands all
persons distressed in mind to go to their ministers,
and- make known their grief; and they must be
careless readers, who are not desirous of knowing,
if this calling be of God, or n o t; for as the benefit
is great to those who receive it worthily, so is the
danger great to those who receive it unworthily, for
then ye have eat and drank the body and blood of
Christ to your condemnation, not discerning the
Lord’s body till his coming. This I shall explain,
that I might not hurt weak minds. The manner
of receiving it worthily, is, to see the justness of
God, how it was placed, and how it was all ordained.
But if jealousy arise in your breasts, whether the
report be true or not, appeal to the ministers of the
Lord for further instruction, to know what spirit
hath inspired a woman, to write such things in these
last days,' as never entered into the heart or thoughts
of any one since earth’s foundation was placed.
Those, that thus concern themselves, are worthy
partakers
( 98 )
, Digitized by G oogle
partakers o f the body and blood o f Christ* and wW
reap much benefit thereby, to their great and end*
less comfort; but those that receive it unworthily;
kre such as read it as an idle tale, and do opt earn
Whether it be true or not; and their, conduct will
kindle GTod’s wrath against them, and provoke jhftra
to plague them with divers diseases, and sundry
kinds of deaths ; for they have eat and; drank thftlf
own condemnation, by eating the bread, and drink?
ing the wine, in memory of his death and sufferings
And now they are shewn clearly what his death and
suffering meant,-—to turn it back on the serpent at
last as h e bore it at first. Then ye cannot be wor?
thy partakers, unless the same mind be in you, as
was in Christ; for you know the devil wafttht.au?
thor of every sin; and the finisher when Chrittdiftd
Upon the cross ; for then he betrayed both God .and
man, when he entered into Judas; Jtjdft*hanged
and our Saviour was crucitied; therefore out
.Lord said, it was finished. But you .mult
5m Isaiah, that the day of vengeance -wav
fn his heart; that meaneth, to turn on Satan the
Spear. Know, if we are worthy partakers of his body
and blood, we shall all drink into the same spirits
least we bring that day of vengeance on Ourselves;
by committing the sin against the Holy. Ghost. But
such a monster, I trust, there is not upon earth';
yet I fear there are many Laodicean6, neither hot
nor cold, but lukewarm ; they are unworthy re»
ceivers of the sacrament. I shall now answer those
who marvel at my saying I am the Bride. I tell
you all, Christ stileth himself the Bridegroom; and
whoever hath his mind and will written on. his heart;
the same is tjie Bride; for Christ is the Bridegroom,
the Church is the Bride, Now call his words to
your remembrance— “ Who is my mother? he that
doeth the'will of my Father, the same is my mother,
piy brother, and my sister.” “ And now I ask you,
N 2 whd
( 99 )
Digitized by G o o g l e
who is the Bride? those who have my mind and
heart within them, to avenge the injuries done to
the Lord. l am the Bridegroom, they are the Bride,
saith the Lotd Jesus Christ. Judas betrayed m b ;
but he could not crucify m e, had not others agreed
with h i m a n d though the petition is made by me,
it cannot be offered up as an acceptable sacrifice till
the church unite together. I shall shew you the
meaning of this mystery hereafter, from the .two
rams that Moses was ordered to offer up as a burnt
sacrifice. T o explain the type of those two. rams,
is too deep, too weighty, arid a field too large to
enter into at present.
But now I will come to Pilate’s question,,“ Which
of the twain w ill ye that l release unto you? the
serpent, or the woman ? Here is as just an inquiry
as Pilate made. One of the two must be cast,
before your full redemption can be accomplished,
Now answer for thyself, O man ! and I will for
the woman. Did I not bear all the blame man
cast on m b ? And is it not just, the serpent should
bear the blame the woman cast on him ? If ye
judge this simple, read back your Bibles, and ye
will find alias simple. Simple was my coming into
the world, and my manner, through the world, and
my going out of the world ; all was as simple to the
Jews as this appears to the Gentiles. W as I not
born of simple parents, laid in a manger, and sim­
ply warned the wise men to return another way
for fear of. Herod, when I could have destroyed
him ? Did I not simply fly into Egypt, and full as
simply returned again ? For a God to be afraid of
man, you- must confess a simple thing.
' And now in verse I shall begin
To echo back the liues Jo men.
O f sirriple parents I was born,
And worldly wise men did me scorn ;
Simply, to Egypt I d:d fly, v
' A nil simply all was done,
And
( 100 )
Digitized by
And simply anothei way
I did turn back again ;
Simply I oft myself did hide
' When man 1 could destroy;
Simply the manger made my bed,
While mankind did enjoy
Their beds of down, and wore their crown.
While I was forc’d to flee ;
Apd simply shall their pride come down.
That every soul shall see.
Simple among the sops of men
I always did appear $
And simple in the woman's form
I've surely acted here.
Simple a$ these appear to be,
So simply all was done,
When on the cross at Calvary
I gave my life for man.
For, oh! how few regard my love,.
Or to the manger go,
Just like the shepherds you have heard,
To know if it be true.
The manger here doth now appear
As much despis'd by mani; '
They capnot see the mystery clear—*
The servant cannot come
No greater here for to appear
Than was her Lord before;
And lyce the Jews the Gentiles are,
* And 6pen every pore.
- Do I not see as well as thee
Thy poyerty despis’d ?
For like the Jews the Gentiles be,
/ And pride hath dimm’d their eyes.
Sp now take care, I warn you here,
The natural branch did fall \
Then rhe wild olive sure must fear,
]f none can judge the call.
Now I shall explain what tli§ calling meaneth,
from what was omitted to be put in the proper
place in the first book ; what is placed in the 17th
page ought to be in the 9th page. Now I shall call
you to the Bible. “ Had all stood in its proper place
as soon as I received the sentence from man, that he
cast on me at first, Satan ought to receive the sen*
teuce
( 101 )
Digitized by G oogle
tence tHe woman cast on him ; but this was omitted,
till the fulness of the time came, that God sent his
Son, made of a woman, made under the law ; that
meaneth the spirit of prophecy given to the woman;
for the spirit of prophecy is the Spirit of Jesus.
Now this spirit is sent to a woman, to fulfil the law
that was then given between the serpent and a wo­
man; Satan hath already bruised my heel, when they
nailed my feet and hands to the cross; and now, to
fulfil the law, the woman must bruise his head;
therefore I let loose his reins, to cause such enmity
between thee and the serpent. The meaningot the
whole verse I shall explain another time.”
And now I will tell you how to compare the two
books together. The first-book is the beginning,
the other sheweth the ending, of all the visions.
The 30th p. book i. and the 83d p. bookii. is the
end of the visions , the last vision in 1792 ends with
the dream in 1 7 9 *, in the 83d p. book ti. Here I
have shewn you the end of the visions that you arc
to compare together: now weigh the 36th with the
74th page, and the 38th with the 87th (the thief
upon the cross). I shall end with comparisons for
the present, only call you to the l6tb page?—
“ Now, if they say all this by thee Is done.
Thy head is wiser than the sons of men}
And now in wisdom all shall see it clear,
Men by their wisdom brought on me Ihe spear5
Or by their folly they did not discern *
The day of vengeance in my heart must come.
And if the vengeance I had in my heart
Was but on man to turn the fatal dart*
Then surely man must judge I died a fool,
To take such veugeanee on the mortal soul,
T® leave my FatIter's throne, and here come down.
To heighten sin, that man might sure be found
A goiv
ty object of my just revenge,
And heighten sin, it this was all my ends;
To have such day of vengeance itv my heart,
On man alone can turn the fatal dart;
Oi
( 1 0 1 )
Digitized by
Or if I died, to a m them ia their sin*
I ask what victory I that way could win ?
But if I died to set the sinner free,
And bore the Mame that man did cast on n s,
The day of vengeance I had in my heart,
It was on Satan for to turn the dart,
That he should bear the blame as well as me.
Cast by the woman. Now let all men see,
No other way I could for man atone.
To free his gipit, but, take it all my own*
Then as I first took on mb every blame
That man did cast, then Satan sure must come *
To bear the blame the woman cast on he,
And there's no other way you can be free;
Your full redemption ye can ne'er attain
But by the woman, whom I did ordain
To be your helpmate in your sore distress,
And in the end complete your happiness.
For this I tell you was my Father's w ill; '
And, lo ! I come, his promise to fulfil,
And pay the debt was cast,on me by man ;
And now the other mystery comes on.
When Satau pays die debt was cast on he,
Yofir fall redemption yon with joy may see $
No other wav can your redemption come,
But by the woman copying after man,
To say to Satan, now must come the spear,
’Tis just that you your sentence now should bear.
( 103 )
* 1
Now I shall come to reason with man. W hat
ideas could fill thy head and heart, O man! to
think my Father and I should agree together for
m e to leave my Father’s throne, to come down on
earth, to suffer hunger and thirst, poverty and
want, temptation and persecution; go through a
life, the half of what I suffered here below was
never penned; and then to make myself a sacrifice
for sin, for man ; or suffer man to make m e a sacri­
fice for sin, that knew no sin, that man might live;
and at that time to cast out my chosen people, the>
Jews, and scatter them over the face of the earth,
as a just mark of my resentment; and make them’
my people that were not my people; call them be­
loved that were not.beloved ? Wherein have I chang--
. . ed
Digitized by G o o g l e
ed For the better ? Trace your Bibles back ; look
to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, Moses, Daniel, and
Job, in all the Prophets and Apostles; are ye better
than any of them ? you must answer, n o ; yet the
martyrs shewed their love as great in dying for m e ,
as the Jews did : then here ye stand together, both
alike fhitkful, so I have not changed for the better,
nor the worse : but I will tell you what I changed
for— to try you all in the end. The Jews perished
for want of that knowledge which the devil told them
they should have; for had they been as gods, knowing
good from evil, they would have known m e , when
I put them to the trial of their knowledge; therefore
I told, them the devil was a liar from the beginning,
and by their ignorance they proved i t : neither un­
derstood they their prophets; but judged what they
prophesied of my second coming would be fulfilled
at the first, and erred for want of knowledge; and
proved the.truth of what I said to man, that he should
be dead as to every knowledge of God. And now I
am come to try the knowledge of the Gentiles, and
find them as far from knowledge as the Jew s; or
they would have discerned from wheitce the. Spirit
came : but here is man lost in wisdom and under­
standing, and dead as to the knowledge of God.
Now I will throw open the Bible unto all men.
The woman, through her strange effedts of faith,
was betrayed by the serpent, and gave it to the
man; the man betrayed his Lord ; then followed
the wondrous prophecies, that no man ever under­
stood, that as the serpent bruised my heel, so shall
I bruise his head, by the same weak instrument he
first betrayed to bring it On m e , and should in the
end bring it back again ; so I suffered what man cast
oh mb ; and Satan shall suffer the blame the woman
cast on h im ; and that man that will not own it
just, shall go with his master he most prizes; for
now I will cut short my work in righteousness.”
Do
( 104 )
Digitized by G oogle
Do these things appear top marvellous in the eyes
o f the readers to believe them ? I answer, they
appear to me so just, that the god of this world
must so blind their eyes, that in seeing they cannot
see, nor in hearing they cannot understand, i'f they
do not see it clear : and every one must own the
sentence ju st; for I may say with the thief upon the
cross, Satan received the just sentence passed upon
him from the woman, but the Lord suffered an un­
just sentence from the man, at first and at last; for if
they thought it right tojiearken to the woman at first,
why not Pilate hearken to the woman at last ? So I
cannot see but man is blameable, as well as the wo­
man ; but the author of the whole was the devil; he
first rebelled in heaven; and,as soon as man andwoman
were created, be studied arts and lies to betray thtun;
and made them break the commands of G o d ; and
the besj^f men cannot shun all his arts ; therefore
it is impassible for the will of God to be done upon
earth, & long as Satan’s power reigneth; for his
arts are as many as his power is great. Now is it un­
likely that the Lord should pass sojust a sentence on
him, to turn back on his head the destruction he had
brought on us all ? He did not spare his Son, nei­
ther hath he spared man, and why should he spare
the devil, who was the author of every evil ? For
we learn from Judas, that the devil entered into his
heart, before he betrayed his Lord; and it is plainly
proved from his hanging himself afterwards ; and I
believe he entered into every heart, or they would
never have betrayed the Lord Jesus Christ. Then
why should it be marvellous in any one’s eyes to
say, the day of vengeance the Lord had in his,heart
turned on Satan the spear, that he should receive
his sentence from the woman, as Christ did from
the man ? This appeareth to me consistent with the
mercy, wisdom, and the goodness of the Lord, who
is wise in all his ways, and just and right in all his
O works,
( 105 )
Digitized by L i O O Q l e
works; and when I disbelieve the one, I shall the
other; for the prophecies are as clear of the one as o f
the other. So here is my firm belief gone*out into
the World; and I believe this spirit as much came front
the Lord, as I believe Christ died on the cross.
' Now let men of learning bring forth their argu­
ments, and shew their strong reasons, why they be­
lieve the one and not the other; and 1 will bring
forth mine, and shew my strong reasons, why I
cannot believe the one without the other. W hat­
ever be your, thoughts, as judging it of myself, I will
tell you the answer of the Spirit to it— “ Thy pen
is the pen of a ready writer; thy heart hath indited a
good matter ; and all men shall know the weight,
and the truth, and justness of thy words; either to
their joy and comfort, and everlasting salvation, or
to their everlasting destruction. For now be it
known unto all men, the redemption of man would
never have been bought with my blood, had not that
been in the bosom of the Father and m e , for m e to
take the blame man cast on the Lord, that Satan
might bear the blame the woman cast on him ;
therefore I said unto thee, in answer to the mi­
nister, when he said he would never have believed
one God died to atone to another—
One God unto another to atone;
It is a mystery understood by none.
But now the mystery I shall shew it clear,
The fatal sin I bid you now beware; /
’ For here’s the sin against the Holy Ghost,
To say the serpent’s sentence is not just ;
Then sure unjustly I for man did die;
Look unto Galvary, men, and tell mb, why
You nail’d my hands and feet unto the cross ?
If Satan’s freed, then man, I say, is lost.
Greater than Adam man brought on the guilt,
And on your heads must all my blood be spilt,
If from my*side there does not come the spear
■ To bruise the serpent’s head, and wound it here.
My side, like man’s, was open to your view,
Look on the womannow; believe it true,
That
( 106 )
Digitized by G o o g l e
That here’s a woman taken from my side, K
That I’ve declared to man to be.the bride,
And to take vengeance for the Bridegroom's heel,
And justly claim the serpent’s blood to spill• 4
Now if this justice is denied by man,
I tell you plain, you’ve brought your ruin on;
For then the vengeance I had in my hearty
Must be on man to turn the fatal dart $
But if you own the woman’s sentence just.
Then man is freed, and Satan’s sentence cast*
So now the hearts of men I mean to try,
And then my arrows they shall surely fly ;
On men or devil shall my fury fall;
So now take care, I warn you oneand all.
Now I have shewn you plainly why I took man’s
nature upon m e, and died for man that I might bear
the blame he cast on m e, that Satan might bear the
blame the woman cast on him ; for I felt for man,
that I had made him subject to the powers of dark­
ness. But was there no other way could be or­
dained for man’s redemption; and could my Father’s
wrath be no other way appeased, but by my shameful
death upon the cross ? How inconsistent with rea­
son, to think the shameful d£ath men put me to,
should appease my Father’s wrath. No, no, I tell
you plainly, O man ! was it tp stop there, it would
sooner increase his anger than abate his wrath :
But what will abate his displeasure with men, is,
their seeing clearly the justness of his sentence, in
casting on Satan the sentence from the woman, as
they cast the sentence on the Lord by man ; for
though the petition is made by thee, the just­
ness of the sentence must be cast by man, before
ever God and man can be reconciled. Where
is the age that sheweth or proveth God was ever
reconciled to man ? Have not the judgments of God
overtaken men in every age of the world ? Then
how is my Father’s wrath appeased, when sin and
sorrow, and the judgments of God, have followed
man to this day ? W ill you say I died for them that
O 2 were
( 107 )
Digitized by G oogle
were good men, and believed in m e ? And was that
all I died for to reconcile to God ? then my blood
was shed in vain; for in every age of the world,
they that feared God, and ,worked righteousness,
were saved. So there is no way man’s judgment
pointeth out my death was of any use to him. But
here are the ends of my death ; to see the travail of
my soul, and be satisfied; to triumph over death,
hell, and the grave ; when I see my deadly foe cast
by man that crucified me, and clamour for Satan’s
destruction, as they did for mine ; and all men say,
with the thief on the cross, Satan is cast justly, but
the Son of God has done no wrong; then will my Fa­
ther be reconciled to man; and Satan must confess
I have done him no wrong, if I bore the sentence
man cast on m b , for him to bear the sentence the
woman cast on him. If I stoop to the failings of
men, Satan must fall the same way ; for if man is
the sufferer, man must be the judge. But consider,
the Son of God suffered with man, and must be the
Judge for man ; men as men must be the jury, God
as God must be the Judge, to pass the sentence,
when clearly proved by m an; then will God and
man be reconciled. W eigh deeply these lines with
reason and the Bible, and tell m e , O man ! whether
this sentence is just or unjust, and I will answer
thee again,
( 108 )
But ne’er no judges in your land
Had e’er so weighty trial inland,
Since I was judg’d at Pilate's bar.
The Holy Ghost must be judg'd here j
But 1 do tell them, 'tis not thee, '
It is the writings they must see; .
1 am the Spirit did indite,
That did induce thee first to write j
And all mankind shall know I AM,
And I Jehovah is my name,
The Father, Son, and Holy Ghost,
In these three Is the sentence past,
And every mystery I’ll explain,
And
Digitized by G oogle
( m y
And echo back the lines to- men.
I am the Maker of ye all,
Eden was found, when man did fall,
A tree of life within to stand:
Hear now my voice, ye sons of men} * -
0 people! simple and unwise,
Vain are your thoughts, for to despise
A God that gave the woman first $,
1 AM, I AM, too, gave her last; ’
By her obedience freed the score,
Her faith is just, if man sees clear j
And she hath err’d the safest side,
The path is straight, the field is wide,
So if you judge her senses lost,
It is where man can never boast,
So far beyond the learned’s skill $
So you m^y judge it as you will.”
* The following wag written, in answer to a digni­
tary of the church, to whom I have sent many let­
ters. It was from the text he preached on a thanks­
giving day in 1797— cf Serve the Lord with fear, and
rejoice with trembling/* Psahn ii. ver. 1). If wag
answered me in the following manner :i
** Now thou hast ended HI begin.
The secondPsalm to all is come $
M} sword is drawn, and dipp’d in blood5
Tis time for man to know his Godj
For conquering now 1*11 conquer all,
And fast the deluge down shall fall,
Till every nation, you shall see,
Will each fall down and worship mb.
I’ll trifle now with man no more;
My sword I’ll send from shore to shore,
Until the nations do comply,
And in the vallies humbly lie,
To worship at Immanuel’s feet $ .
Now I've begun I’ll finish it.. ‘
But if your peace you'll keep at home,
My mind and will mtifet be made known j
That every nation now may fear,
Let England know my kingdom's near,
When every burden'I'll relieve,
And gladden soon the hearts that grieve.
But if this way ye do go on,
To keep in darkness still jour land,
Just
Digitized by
( n o )
Just like thy head all hearts will he}
We cannot stand, lie down like thee.
Provok’d by anger, first they'll go
Careless, like tnec, of what they do.
Until their feet are wet with blood,
And soon the pain will seize their head;
Then sure like thee they’ll all lie down—
€
i We cannot stand* nor bear the wound/!
Therefore ye shepherds now awake,
The helmet of salvation take,
And the whole armour now put on,
And shew the Corner-stone to man $
The temple-gate throw open wide,
And shew your flocks where they must hide;
The Rock of Ages now is come j
Such days as these were never known$
Nor did awoman soappear
To write or act as thou hast here.
Then every thing together weigh,
You’ll see the dawning of the day,
Though like the weather it doth appear |
The sun seems bid and cloudy here,
That you cannot behold the^un,
No more you see the days are come.’*
I f my readers are at a loss to know how these
things came to me ; and cannot believe them, be­
cause they cannot find out the mystery; I shall
answer them from another text, and part of the
sermon preached by a reverend divine on the
25th of December, 179 7* I hope my readers will
weigh deeply the words, and the answer to them.
The text was from 2d Corinthians, chap. viii. ver. 9.
*c For ye know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ,
** that, though he was rich, yet for your sakes hebe-
** came poor, that ye through his poverty might
“ be rich.”
In the course of his sermon he said, if we did not
believe in Christ, because we could not find out all
mysteries, we should be like a man that sought for
an anchor in the dark, and so make shipwreck of
faith and a gpod conscience ; or like a philosopher,
who threw away his cup, because he was outdone by
Digitized by G oogle
< ni i
a boy, that made & cup with the hollow of his hand
to drink out of. In his sermon he said, nothing
• could strike us more forcibly than our own con­
science, when our Saviour said, “ I was hungry,
€
€and ye gave me no m eat; thirsty, ye gave
“ me no drink; as much as ye did it not to the
€i least of my disciples, ye did it. not unto me.”
W hen I came home, it was answered me in the fol­
lowing manner: ' ^
" Now, Joanna, thee I’ll answer,
s As themaster did appear,
If thou clear canstjudge thy Master,
In it I was surely there.
Out of his mouth dost thou condemn,
And I will condemn him too5
What he did say, l bade him weigh
And lay before his view.
The thing’s too high,---- ------ now cry,
Too wondrous to believe;
As he can never find the way
These truths thou didst receive.
Then like the man will he go on,
His cup to throw away;
Because he is outdone by one 3
Appears as low as thee;
Or in the dark, to miss his mark,
No pilot can he see,
N6 rock to climb, his anchorgone,
His shipwreck let him see :
What hazard run, what rock to climb,
When he’s benighted here,
And faith, and hope, and all isgone,
And charity despair:
fo r charity he’th none for me.
To see my honour: die;
Am I not come to poverty,
Humbly to him apply ?
And will he say, like thee, that day
He did something bestow,
For to assist mb in the way,
My journey to go through ?
To bid mb come has he begun,
Or wish’d my kingdom here;
Af all my flock has now become
Just like thy father here ?
Wounded
Digitized by L r O O Q l e
Wounded like he my people be,
What clothing do you §end ?
I ask you where’syour charity ?
See my imprison'd friend!
With grief oppress'd, you wound her breast#
And stones tor bread you send ;
She does not want your charity,
If gold be what you mean:
The charity wanted by she
Is faith and love to show,
The feeble knee for to confirm
With charity below.
And judge your God as Abram did—
*
He's faithful in the end;
He won't deceive those that believe;
Came, to the other send.
For perfect here do men appear ?
My word they do forget;
No prophecies are mine ; by them
The mysteries seem forgot;
My Bible’sclear, ’tis man doth err.
And trace my Bible back;
Did I not tell you in the end
The mysteries would be great ?
The Prophet’s word is on record—
A Child should lead you all 5
What answer now from you I’ve got ?
You mind it not at all.
And marvellous things to you I bring,
And marvellous all is done;
Were you to see the perfect day *
Your senses would be gone.
The sun sobright would take your sight
Whjen brilliant it doth shine;
You cannot long look in the sun,
Nor see the things divine;
Sg must appear now clouded here,
Your sensesto secure.
Thy Father’s band so near doth stand,
I .can’t say any more."
Now I shall begin with our Saviour’s words when
he was about to leave his disciples; he said, “ W hen
“ the Holy Ghost cometh, that is the Comforter,
** whom the Father shall send in my name, he shall
“ bring all things to your remembrance.” Now
you are not to suppose he meant it at that time to
his
( 11* )
Digitized by G oogle
his disciples; for though he sent the Holy-Ghost
upon them, and gave them power to work miracles
by the power of his Spirit, yet the Father did not
send it then in his name, as being the fulfilment of
the meaning of his words; for Christ appeared per*
sonally unto his disciples, and the power of his Spirit’
was given them. The Holy Ghost is the Holy
Sprit o f God and Christ, as the soul and body is
united in one man, the body visible, the spirit in-'
visible, yet the two are one; so God and Christ are
one in power, one in wisdom, and' one in heart and
mind ; yet they are two in person; hut the Holy
Ghost is the Holy Spirit of God and Christ invisi­
ble ; and where is the inspired penman that ever-
said the Holy Ghost was seen 1 Now, as the Holy
Ghost was to come, to bring all to your remem­
brance, you are to consider further our dear Her
deemer’s words,. “ W hat I say unto you, Isay unto
a ll; lo ! Iam with you to the end.’* This is meant
to all his believers and followers, that he should be-
with them till the end was come; to send die Holy
Ghost, the Comforter, whom the Father should
send in his name, to bring all things to their remem­
brance. • Now, my friends and enemies, 1 must ad-
dress the different readers; for I know, as in ages
past,' so is the present; for in every age of the world
unbelief hath abounded, and so it will in this present '•
age; or the 12th thapter of the Revelation can
never be fulfilled. If the devil did not .work in the
hearts of some men, how could the dragon cast ouf
floods against her ? But to come to the purpose. - 1
shall’ inform my readers, it is by the inspiration of
the Holy Ghost my writings are to bring all tilings
to your remembrance. I am ordered to write in
bis name, to oall you back to.the tree of knowledge,
and today all the Bihle before your eyes. I am to
call to your remembrance what our Saviour Mid;
and what he meant by spying, the Holy Ghost woe
. . F rto
( 113 >
Digitized by G oogle
the tymforter; for I have now to inform you of the
dangers and distresses; sword, and almost famine,
$eem to appear; yet your redemption is nigh, to be
redeemed from death, hell, and sin; that is, from
Adam’s fall, by the redemption in the Mood of
Ghrist; Satan to be chained down; Christ’s king­
dom to be established; and the good fruit that was
on the tree of knowledge must come unto all m en:
for the dead shall hear his voice, and live; that
meanet-h, those who were dead by the fall of Adam,
shall come tothe knowledge of God, and the know-'
ledge of their Bibles. The man that was born blind -
received his sight by Christ, and so will men that-
are pronounced dead be made alive by Christ; and
first, see men as trees walking, will soon see they
are perfect men, and no more appear like trees;
but so they now discern their Bibles; for the Scrip­
tures- are hid unto them that are lost: Now we
were all lost by Adam’s fall; and the Scriptures have
been hid from all men. But the proper meaning of
the word is— it is hid from the powers of darkness;-
for as soon as the devil found out the command was
given to man, lie found away to betray him ; and as-
sdon as the Son o f God was upon the earth, he found
a way to work In man to betray him ; and did the de-
til- understand the Scriptures, he would soon find a
way to work on men, and make them like himself, till
' he would draw men to the same pride,*presumption,
arid rebellion, as he did the fallen arigels; so all must
perishv “ Therefore, it is for the sake of man that the
Scriptures vare hid from men and devils, till the
powers of darkness are chained down ; then I will
throw open the meaning of all the Bible, and give
them the enlightened knowledge that the fallen angels
had got, and place man in a state of perfect happi-
*0Ess, a& they were placed; and try man for one thou­
sand years; then shall I see what man is, when Satan
- hatii.no-pqwer over him ; to be clear when I judge,
* ' - and
( 1 U )
Digitized by G oogle
and just when I condemn, I will let him loose again,
to see what he will do. Now, if Satan does not tempt
man,again, he shall have his perfect freedom to
walk up and down in the earth; but if he^tempteth:
mao again, be shall have his sentence passed.in^that
day, to be cut from off the face of the e^dch,
when the seventh thousand is expired. Now I yqll
appeal to men’s consciences, if I am not as just
with Satan, as I was whb man; and if I am not
just in judging, and clear in condemning, when I
have made so fair a trial, and sat bounds for the
devil as well as. for man. But this 1 will explain,
another time.”
The answer to some one’s inquiry, what use the
prophecies were ?
“ Now, J o a n n a , I will answer thee in plain words.
A t the beginning, when man fell from the perfec­
tion in which he was first made, he fell under the
powers of darkness; and had it not been forpropbe?
cies, man would soon have become like the wild
ass’s colt. The wild Indians, and the completf
heathens, who worship stocks and stones, shew you
what man was fallen to ; and what all men would
be, had I not sent my Spirit amongst them, tp i n ­
struct and direct them; and by prophecies foretold
what lay before them. The promises and threaten-
ings were both foretold, and both, were fulfilled, tp
enlighten men’s minds, and make them live in faith
and fear. But all this time man remains under
the fell; few see any form or comeliness in religion;
ignorant of God, pursued by the devil; and what
are men now, but like wild bulls, rushing one upon
another ? Hath this made your land, or any other#,
one whit the better or wiser? Various construc.-
tions do all men put on i t ; then how will ye be­
come new creatures ? Hpw will ye know the Lord,
if your understanding is riot enlightened ? And how
P 2 will
( 115 )
Digitized by G oogle
( H 8 )
Will k be enlightened, but by the spirit of revela­
tion, and by the spirit of prophecy ? How shall |
bring men out of darkness into my marvellous
Kghr, or how shall the knowledge of the Lord cover
the earth as the waters cover the great deep, if f do
not go on as I have begun ? Men now see bnt as
trees walking; but when I open to men all myste­
ries, then they shall see as men, why 1 permitted
the fa ll; and why I fixed their bounds to be under
the fa ll; and why I promised to redeem them from
the fall. These are mysteries concealed from man;
and was I to shew signs and wonders in heaven
above, or in the earth below, it would not enlighten
men’s minds. For though my Gospel is clear and
plain before them; yet those who do see, it is through
a glass darkly; but then shall ye see face to face:
when the truths of thy prophecies are made known,
then will men see the mysteries of the Bible, and
'all men become of one mind, and one heart; 'there­
fore have I made it so strong, and brought it round
to so strange a manner, that it is impossible for
inan to^be deceived. The truths of thy prophecies
will convince men of the truths of their Bible; the
Strange manner it will be brought to light, will con­
vince men it is the Lord’s doing, and will be mar­
vellous in their eyes. The more men wonder at
thee, the more will they wonder at their Bibles,
'when they are brought plain to their view. Some
Stumble at rhee; others at my chosen men; but
the end will convince all men that it is the wisdom of
God, and not of man, who chose these very men to
bring to light the hidden things that are done in
tiarkness, and bring my Bible and thy prophecies
together. 1 will explain it more fully on the
morrow.”
The igth of June, 1/08.'
Digitized by L ^ o o Q l e
I have given you a short account of the use of
prophecies, and now I will explain the mystery of
prophecies. They were delivered to the Prophets,
who never understood them, nor any that read
them ; as you will see by the vision of Ezekiel’s Dry
Bones. It was delivered to the Prophet long before
Christ cam e; and die end of the vision was seen by
John (see Revelation, chap. vii. where he speaks of
the sealed people). Happy are those who believe
and pray to be some of the sealed number: for the
Lord will wipe away all tears from their eyes (as
you will sec in the last verse,) and lead them to
living waters, and breathe in them the breath of
life ; as you will find in Ezekiel's vision, which is
explained in the following manner,:
**It must appear, the dry bones here*
Men’sheartsare all grown dry,
In Satan's snare, I tell thee here ; «
Docs this a mystery
Appear tp thee ? How can it be
The meaning of the word?
The vision that was seen by him
Fdretels the power of God,
When I do come to breathe in m*a
A ipirittbat is new,
Til surely make the dry bones come.
And give them sinews too,
iLTpontheir feet; the number’s groat
When 1 doall awake;
, Though men have been all dead in sin,
Their siuews I shall shake#
Bone to his bone is known by none,
Nor is it understood /
That I did make-man fpr roy own;
’Tis there they death elude.
That by the tall, be't known to all,
1 did pronounce man dead; * .
But when I do them all recall,
They'll aee theirliving Head,
That conquer'd death, will bring them forth,
And join them bone to bone;
That is to me, the mystery,
I therefore took man's form#
My
( " 1 1 7 )
Digitized by G oogle
( n s )
My linejrs thereshall sureappear;
But then the Jews 'will qu?ke,
When | dojtell them when and Where
My statutes they did break,
Till they did comedry bones to man, *
And sinews they have none.
And number'd in their graves so long.
And almost buried down.
Const thou not see the mystery,
How they are buried here,
And like the dead ip gravesnow be >
Til make it to appear :
A living people once they were,
And trace their fathersback,
Abraham and Joseph now appear,
And judge how Enoch walk'd
Close with me j the mystery se e -
le t all the just appear 5
Then you will see they liv’d in mb,
And shone as pillars here.
putthQse are dead, and all are fled,
The branches are behjnd.
7 . 1 ask what living stones appear,
What corner-stone to find,
^or to keep up a J oseph’shope,
A&4 Abraham’s faith appear
The following lines were answered me from the
words of a Jewess, who said; “ They were of all
“ people the most unhappy ; for they were obliged
“ to wander up and down foe earth to get their
“ bread.” She was answered, “ Some people were of
“ opinion, that the Jews and Gentiles would soon be
“ of one mind.” The Jewess replied, “ She wished
“ it was to-morrow, if, it was the will of God,” and
repeated it three times; “ they had expected it for
two hundred years ago, but feared now it was not
<
*so near.” Her words were answered qae in the
following manner:
To her words I’ll deeplyanswer.
Of one mind you soon may be;
The two hundred andtwo thousand -
Is a hidden mystery.
The
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
( ) '
The two bundled they have shorten'd,
As Ttold tbee heretofore ; •
The two thousand are approaching $ ,
Let the Jews begin*?o fear.
Tel) me why they are complaining-
That they wahder Up and down >
For when first I came among them.
They no place for me could find.
All the wonders I did shew them
Did but swell their malice high.
As I was not then exalted $ * ' • ’
Now I ’ll shew the mystery. ' .
Pomp and grandeur then did swell them,
And my poverty despis’d ;
Trace the judgments, now I tell them.
It is time for to be wise.
If my love they longer slight it,
Fatal shall thfeir sorrows come;
They for me no house provided j
1 for them prepar’d no laud.
My disciples they did wander,
And as martyrs they did die 5
They are murmuring and complaining;
' But I bid them tell me why.
Haughty titles they were seeking,
And ray poverty despise;
If I bring them to the manger,
Will they now the babe despise ? •
If they do not, I do tell them, *
All that their forefathers done
I will blot out of my memory, ■ •
If they to the purpose come.
When I come ’twill be in glory,
And by every soul shall see;
If on earth I dwell amongst them,
In the Spirit it shall be.
I have died for man already,
But I say I’ll die no more;
Let them tell how they expect me, \
And 1’ll fully answer here.
If they wish the days approaching,
Then to-morrow it may b e;
In my Gospel they may seek it,
In it there’s a mystery.
Now the Jews, thou soon must warn them,
1 Andtbe reasons now assign,
In whatmanner they expect me
' In their own appointed time.
" ' ' Then
Digitized by G oogle
Then their reason I will answer.
And their folly I.will shew;
But I say I’ll not reject them,
If they own my judgments true#
All their lands I will redeem them j
Nations shall before them fall $
For one man shall chace a thousand
Till I hare destroy'd them all#
And that is the heathen nation,
With them I shall next begin,
Till Jews and Gentiles join together,
Then the victory they shall win;
For by two I'll kill ten thousand,
And the rebels then shall fly $
I will build that holy city, -
And the time is drawing nigh;
Then my kingdom it will flourish,
And you golden days will see;
For the rebels all must perish,
That won’t put their trust in me
With the Jews thou now hast ended,
Till of then) thpu more dost hear j
And of others 1 did tell thee,
I shall answer all thy prayer.”
I shall now inform my readers the fulfilment of
these things is to all nations; but more particularly
to Jews and Gentiles, as you will see explained
from Simeon’s words— “ A light to lighten the
“ Gentiles, and the glory of my people Israel.”
The type was explained to me from the two candle-
sticks at the altar, in the following manner.
“ How shall the glory now in Israel shine, *
If 1 don’t open the benighted mind ?
O r the fulfilment of the Gentiles come ?
Twas by a woman first the deed was done >
Because she did the serpent first obey,
To bring it back must turh the other way $
The Mother she was surely of the Jews,
But now,the Bride I’ll of the Gentiles choose.
Judge for yourselves, if these things dpn’t agi^e,
That God and man might perfect likeness be;
And if I stoop to come so low as man,
Why should I not now do asthey have done ?
Two candles on the altar new are plac'd,
For types and shadows now*, as Moses was j
* But
( 120 )
Digitized by G oogle
( H I )
’ But soon theseshedo^s will be piit M i j ,
c ; .When evcfy one doth shine tq perfect day. .
r . The meaning o f,the candle* is conceal'd* )..,' 1 .
And now the mystery I'll to thee reveal. /
' 4 *Twa9 the two lights that Simeon he did
' * The Jews and Gentiles, glorious lights to be $ . I
• Mi; And why so glorious did these two dppear? 1 / f
..........J^ecause.the Virgin did the Saviour, bear y . . ,
And to the Gentues thou must surely come. ' .
:i 1 - : The Prophet’s Words must unto all be known: ’
' ' - l Bejoioer, thou barren! thou wbo dost not bear, * .v
:; Break f^t^rkt spiging, thy Deliverer's near y ,r,*
And of thy children many more shall be *
, ^
Than of the married wile, m ist certainly;
• 1:!;; The Lord ofi Host thy husband he doth cal I, - ’ !
• . j ;And by the Bride I’ll join both one and all.
, But deeper my&teriesilie still behind,
•
*
, That thou another day the truth shalt find;
For eVery mystery I’ll reveal to thee,' ' 1
Before my servants warned they shall be,M
> *
■ . • f ‘ ‘ • ' ” ■• ■ 1 t 1 . #•
I shall now proceed with whit was explained ,tq
me in 1797. In that year I was ordered to fas®
throughout Lent, and eat no meat ,but one day ini
the week; so I.fasted six days, and eat no more
than a bason of broth.a day; not a morsel of bread
did I make use of but in my broth. Thus I fasted
the seven weeks in Lent, as I was commanded; and'
on the Good Friday I was ordered to.put three pena
in the Bible, and write down where. I found them.
The first was in Mtcah, i. 2— “ Hear, ,all ye people;
“ hearken, O earth, and all that,therein is : and
“ let the Lord God be witness against you, the.
“ Lord from his holy temple.” The second pea
•was in the 2 Chronicles, xxiv. 19— “ Yet he sent
“ prophets to them to. bring them again unto the
“ Lord, and they testified against them : but they
“ would not give ear.” The third pen was in Num­
bers, xxvii. 15, 16— “ And Moses spake unto the
“ Lord, saying, Let the Lord, the God of the
“ spirits of all fltsh, set a man over the congrega­
te “ tion.”
Digitized by t ^ o o Q l e
( IM )
** tion.” After I had written where. I had found
my pens, as I put them in the Bible without know­
ing where, I:was answered in tHejfollowing manner :
“ Now.hear, the words of the Lord, ye men o f
Israel, and all ye inhabitants of the house o f Jacob,
thus saith the Lord, I am God, and there is none
besides me that.can deliver you. I, am the same
to day, yesterday,, and for ever.' In me there is no
variableness,;nor rhei shadow of turning*) Then
why have men sought out so, many inventions?
W hy have ye set at nought all my counsel $ or why
have ye despised prophecies ? On what foundation
does the house of Israel trust ? • Have-ye:<een vain
visions ? Have ye deceived yourselves in vain divi­
nation ? Are ye become more, wise than your fore­
fathers ? or are,. ye become more foolish? The
f
rophets trusted in mb, and sought mb not in vain.
N
ivas * light unto their feet, ancfa tnuborn tdtheir
paths. I directed their goings,' and my Spirit.was
Upon them froingeneration, to: generation. I never
left myself without a witness^ Have I not cared
for man, whom I. formed ? but how ia the tine gold
fescome dim ! As past ages were, so is the present.
They; despised'my prophets,: tW y were fall of their
owninventions, till they brought destruction On their
etoftsolves. Then, lo l I com e: in. the volume of
•lie book it is written of me. Here was my Father
and Me ; one ih spirit, one in power, and one in
truth. The lame were healed ahd walked, the blind
deceived their sight, and the deaf heard. Not half
#he miracles T wrought were ever, penned. But«
here is the chain that hangs the)Law: and the Gospel
together: the Law was. given to man, but it was
fulfilled by the Son ofGod; Then now bear ye him,
n to day, if ye will hear his voice* harden not your
hearts/’ ’ Did' I come to give; ye light, or to make
ye blind ? If light, walk- in- ti«rh(gh.t, and confess
tbaut- my Gospel is true, and my word verified. Ye
have
Digitized by G oogle
have wars and' rumours 6F wars, nation against na­
tion, city against'cityy men divided against them­
selves, and perplexities and distresses of nations ;
fudge for yourselves if it be not true. Then now
let the'Bridegroorxi go forth from his chamber,, ^and
the Bride go out of her closet ; for ^ion is in tray$j^
and longing to be delivered; for darkness hath ,CQj-
vered the earth, andt gjross darkness, the hearts
the people; the wisdom of the wise men is’peu-
risked, the understanding of the prudent men is
hid, and the bows of the mighty men are broken*
then fear ye the rod, and him that hath appointed it ;
for he that stumbleth shall be girt with strength,*
nor shall this , generation pass away till all. is ful­
filled. • Let men study their Bibles, and they will
find it is not fulfilled. Have I called the Jews from
all natidnS’whitherever I have scattered them ? Is
Jerusalem'new built ? Do all the nations of the
earth know m e ? These are not fulfilled; but the,
time is at hahd, that I will throw down and build
u p ; I tvill scatter abroad and gather together; I will
wound and I will heal; I will cast down, and I will
yaifce Up; I will kill and make alive; I will quench the
flatties o f fire that are kindled1seven times moi;e
flian Usual f I will stop ihe mouths of lions; J will
gain'the victories in Wpr;' I will go oh as.I.lpiv?
beguri*f'tifl victory is accomplished; for.judgment
shall'1be laid to the lipe, and.righteouness.,to the
I havd begun, and I .will makeap; end.
The days ar^ accomplished for,my chosen people;
arid the'# Wdrfiite- must'be accomplished and nave an
fcttdi Paub ‘do not persecute me. ' Peter*
Pfet€*r; lio riot denytrie kny more. I will gather yop
togetheras a hen gather her brood under her wings,
I will set a watchman over you, and my banner
shall be “ love.” .I ’hep now,hear me,. O Jacob*
and all the families of the house of Israel; the
stone that was rejected by the builders, is now be-
Q 2 come
'( 123 )
Digitized by G oogle
( )
come the head of the G entses; and here is the head
of the building. I have chosen you a watchmau
over you, that ye. tpay not be as sheep without a
•shepherd. Your shepherds are dumb.dogs; ypur
prophets are; gone,; your cities, are laid waste ; and
ye are become as c^ikes not haken ; for ye have folr
lowed after wind; and the pride of all nations ttfsti-
fieth against you. Then no\v let ns reason together,
though your sins are as scarlet, I will makc^them
as'snow; and though they, are as,crim son,.!.will
niake them as wool. Then now let yotiiwrocky
hearts be rent, and the graves of the dead be. opened;
for ye are dead in trespasses add sins; but- now I
will Call you with an effectual ca ll; now I will save
you with an everlasting salvation. Turn unto m e , •
and I will turn u.ito you;. look back on, your pro*
phets, whom ye. have slain ; and look unto Calvary*
whom ye have crucified ; -confess your faults|F;fmd
wash your hands, and I will heal your baqkslidings,
and love you freely : but if ye. harden your hearts,
as your forefathers, did, then will. | bring on you
swift destruction. This is my will for thp JewhtKtV'
But now .to come to the Gentiles. ,^wakfjAjfry
shepherd, whom I have anointed ,as a watchiaah
over’ you and all nations, to be a judge-between m *
and iny vineyard, and, I will anoipt .htm wi^Ji the
oil of gladness, and he shall come, info my prf$eace
with thanksgiving. Give ear, O Heavens!. antf.be
astonished, O earth ! the Lord t}atH a coutrpver$y
with his peopled I'have nourished, and. brought Up
children, and they have rebelled, against me.> ;Ye
have drawn the sword in vain,; yehpvetfixfd your
bows for nought; and by reason, ojfj,your'fips-doth
your land mourn. _Now this commupdmeu$ isfor
you,— I have chosen m e a shepherd^ in whqmlfind
no fault : if you chpose .him,; | willImpose you ; if
you obey his counsel, I will heal your backslidings,
and love you freely.: but if ye reject him, J will
reject
Digitized by
( W * \
reject you; and I will laugh at youf calamities,' and
mock when your fear cometh ; for if yoy refuse,him
you will refuse m e ; for he hath not testbed of him­
self, but I have testified of Ijia) s my laws shall be
written on his heart, and my Spirit shall be in his
inner parts; in seeing he shall see; and in hearing
he shall understand; he shall judge between thee
and m e ; between m e and my vineyard: true and just
shall be his judgment ; and -by'him thou must stand
or fall; for my Spirit shall be u{on him; because
he hath acted more wise than others, so will I give
him more wisdom than others-; for he that humbleth
himself shall be exalted ; but he that exalteth him­
self shall be abased. Ye that seek for Wisdom,
shall find her as silver, and ye that dig deep, shall
find her as true gold, and be made heirs of God,
and joint heirs with Jesds Christ.”
No man can read his Bible, without being lost in
wonder, love, and praise; and know, it is not our
merits, but free unbounded love was the spring from
whence all his goodness flows.
“ The righteous all with their enlighten'd eyes,
With modest joy the humble host replies, ^
** Thy mercies, Lord, our goodness nought we know^
“ No good, alas! then did we ever do,
“ To be so highly favour'd of our Cod' • « ^
“ For Christ to die, and wash us in his blodd ; "
" And full atonement for our ransom m ale, *
" When we had run ourselves so deep in debt.’*
And this will surely ipakfe.ihe humble heart !
Repent the sins that made its Lord to smart,
And then you’ll gee there is no room for pride}-
VVhat is to ont; is unto all ap>ly*d. * 1 ‘ : T
If Eve’s tr3ii:gres$ic*n fell Upon all, *
Then one’s obedience sute thesausemust1
AH
';
So men of wisdom; now must clearly $e£ '
That the good irv4t that hung upon the tiee,
By the same hand it surely most corneld6wn
That pluck'd the evil, v, Mad too Soon wa* found
To cast the blajne upon Lorden high,
And how the blame on man must sujeiy lie ;
a>
•in
d ^
*
1
i\
. T
T
r
‘/.
■
;A
MT
Because
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
Because the lying spirit was sent out
To fill the prophets' hearts with fear and doubt,
That no Micaian could to them appear
To make fhem wiser prophets than they were;
They judg'd their wisdom and their learning too
Brought greater knowledge unto all their view,
Than poor Micaiah's prophecies could be;
And mock'd the prophet as they mocked he,
And ask’d which way the spirit ever went
from them to thee, to tell thee my intent ?
That all the prophets wrong did prophesy,
And in thy face they’d all give thee the lie.
Did not Micaiah in thy Maker stand,
And the Messiah nearly now at hand,
For to fulfil the words Micaiah spoke ?
And now 1*11 tell these how they all did mock. •
Thou know’st that 1 have said, like Ahab's feign
Are all the prophets that advis’d the king .
For to go on for to support the war;
But know not what they’re so contending for:
Is it for to support the Romish, band ?
Then Ahab's prophets they are in your land ;
And now Micaiah every one shall see
Is the true prophet .prophesieth by me.
The Romish bauds they never shall Support/
And now Micaiah they shall never hurt j
Because too soon I’ll make it all appear,
And prove Micaiah is thy Maker here;
And the Messiah in that name doth stand;
’TU but.few letters chang'd from God to man.
For if they say they’ll have a glorious peace,
And gain the victory ere their arms do cease * ■
Then let ;the spirit!* sword begin to fight,
And say my Gospel must be kept aright;
Then I wife soon support them in that war,
And prove jto man the true Micaiah’s here;
Then as tlmdifference in the name’s no more,
I’ll m akeif prove shat the Messiah's here :
And if my shepherds they do now awake,
To change the letter* and Messiah take
To be the;prophet that did tell them true,
And bring my l>aw and Gospel to their view,
And let tbeitphrit’a sword begin to fight,
I tell you all I ’ih make them men of fnight,
And every foe shall down before them fa ll:
That way yprt^LccnquerJ and you’ll conquer a ll;
And then a bappy nation;you shall bei
your land I’ll prosper, and your b-nds set free;
And
( 126 )
Digitized by G oogle
( m )
, - A nd youshall boafttof vidtorteiin thevtab:
The night’s approaching; let the stars, appeal;.
For if the evening star alone doth shine', '
I ask what light will it give to m ankind1' 1 ’*
Till all the rest be lighted, in the skies ;■ /
.Y e sons of learning look, and now be wise., ■ ,
Iu tbis new century 1 have shewn the star, , ,
-*• Seal’d up-from man, til) night was drawing near;
Sixyears thou know '* that Mm bath been conceal’d,
i But how, the seventh, publicly-reveal’d.
And this discern .is ip Update that’s new; :
’ Bring forth your reasons,' or believe it true
-• Thai now the evening star it doth appeal^ ' ;
And Aheb’S prbpheUdndJdicahah betel ' ’
• So. npw act Wisely, all ye sobs of menj .
. Be clear is judgment ere ye do begin.
To Use the. woman you did the man; ,
You’ll find a Jehu after sdon will come,
And Israel scatter’d as they were o f old—
.. y o u ’ll find: the truthw as by the woman told.”
But now J shall come to the. purpose of types and
shadows. The brazen serpent was a type of Christy
though made like a serpent that resembled the de­
vil (for in that shape he betrayed the woman;) yet
the brazen serpent was certainly a type of Christ.;
as the ram that was caught in the thicket, when
Abraham offered up Ms son Isaac, was a type of the
deVil, though he was a sheep; and Christ compar-
eth his Sock to sheep, and himself to a lamb ; yet
then he compares the ram to a devil tfiat will be
Caught in a thicket, and must be slain instead of
man, when all men’s faith becomeslrke Abraham’s.
This I shall shew you in the volume J
of my books.
But to come to the type o f the bells/ringing in dif­
ferent hours in different parishes, so is the. different
calling of the nations, and the type of the seven and
eight days. The seven' o’clock bell denotes the
Lord’s finishing alt for man,in seven days ; at eight
days old Christ was made known in the temple by
Simeon : now reflect on.his words— A light to
lighten the Gentiles, and the glory of his people Is­
rael.’’ But what followed Israel then T Now, as
the
Digitized by G oogle
the bells stand for types and shadows, consider, as the
seven days were ended, so the decree for man, which
is one thousand- years. The eight denotes the eight
hundred ; then the nine is to call back the leprous
men, who are to be brought back again and joined
to the ten, which denotes, that some of different
nations were convinced at that time, but did not
abide in the Gospel of Christ. The stranger was
the Gentiles. Now, all these men must be joined
together by the ten and eleven o’clock bells; for then
goeth in all churches. In ..the afternoon, the one
o'clock bell in all parishes; so-intheend all na-
tions will come to the Three-One God. Now the
one thousand denotes the Lord’s finishing for man;
and the eight hundred, Christ’s second Coming.
Then now judge for yourselves; as it is said to me,
the Lord will begin his strange works with a new
century, and go on in such a manner to fulfil my
prophecies,.that in three years the major part of
our land will be convinced the Lord hath spoken
by me'* ; and the Bible will be revealed very clearly
unto men.
M r. L — ,
— r dreamt one night he was going over
London Bridge, and the bridge was broken in rhq
middle; that many personsw ere, looking at the
water, and others were endeavouring to repair the
bridge. Deep is the mystery of this dream; the
explanation of which I shall give, in part.
“ N ow by this dream cannot m ankind discern
H ow they are w arn ’d to guard against the storm ?
* In every age this thing hath surety been;
/ Then now I ask if I am not the sam e ?
I f that in dreams I ever do men w arn, *
’T is by the Spirit, (they do not discern,)
A nd by the Spirit I do do the same,
B y day and night m y Spirit alw ays cam e;
F o r should 1 leave man singly to him self,
T here is nO-xnan could ’scape th e pow ers o f hell.
But
* This was Joanna’s own judgment, that from the three good har­
vests following as (oretold people would be generally convinced.
( 1 2 8 )
Digitized by G o o g l e
But though I guard them with a father's care,
I ’ll try their wisdom ere I’ll say I’m here;
And he that doth with caution now go on,
I will protect ’gainst every coming storm.
But now the mysteries I will soon unfold—
This is the very mystery of his dream :
Bridges are safeguards for the sons of men ;
But when they’rebroken none can safe go through;
And now I’ll bring it plainer to thy view :
.When bridges part or wholly are thro\Vn down,
Some other road for man there must be' found*
Thou know’st I said the storm was coming on,
That they must guard against the rising storm;
And now thou seest the shadow is begun,
I fay the substance now is hastening on."
I shall leave the further explanation of this
dream to my readers.
Now I shall acquaint you with the days that are
before you. The end of finishing what Christ died
for is at hand, as I told you; and you must know,
from the prophet Isaiah, lxiii. 4, “ The day of
vengeance is in my h e a r t t h e n will you bring
the day of vengeance upon yourselves, by denying
its being for the devil ? then you may say it is
for man. Then know, O man, that day is at
hand, which you will see in Revelation, xi. 14—
“ The second woe is past; and behold, the third
woe cometh quickly.” The first woe was when
the world was drowned, and a fatal woe that
was to men. The second woe was the destruction
pronounced upon the Jews, the destruction of Je­
rusalem, and the scattering of the Jews over the
face of the earth. Now the third woe is to come.
The two first were pronounced on man ; the third
and last is for the devil. If it fall on men, they
will bring it on themselves by their careless regard
of bringing it on the devil. But if men will look
deep into the mystery, and pray the Lord to turn
the day of vengeance on the devil, as being the au­
thor of sin and the finisher of their sorrow, then
R Christ
( 120 )
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
Christ, who was the author of their faith to lead
them to trust in him, will be the tinisher of their
faith ; which will now be the case with thousands.
For now is coming the kingdom of our God and our
Christ, and it is not all the powers of earth and hell
can tempt all men to disbelieve it, or to say it is an
unjust sentence in the Lord, to cast on the devil,
that old serpent, the sentence the woman cast
upon him. So you may begin to lift up your
heads; for your full redemption draweth near;
which you will see in Joel, ii. and in the Reve­
lation, xxii— “ For when that is fulfilled, I will
pour out my Spirit upon all flesh it must be
fulfilled, that your women shall prophesy. Weigh
the chapter deep, and these words, Revelation,
xxii. 17— u And the Spirit and the Bride say,
c o m e t h e n whomsoever will, may come and
take of the water of life freely, which signifieth the
Water wherein the person is baptized, in the name
6f the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, to renounce
the devil and all his works. But was this ever yet
done ? No man knoweth how oft he ofFendeth ; the
best of men have sinned, and come short of the
glory of G o d ; then how have ye renounced the de­
vil and all his works ? But now I shall open to your
view, how you may renounce them all. By a sted-
fast faith in the Lord, that he will complete at last
the promise he made you at first by the woman, to
perfect your happiness: for though Satan robbed
you, by working in the woman at first; ye trust in
Christ, he will make it good by working in the wo-
fnan at last; therefore are ye signed with the sign
v of the cross, in token of his death and passion ; this
is the mark ye have in your foreheads— Christ
dying to atone for man; Christ is risen to arise in
the woman, to cast her blame on the serpent;
*fhen cometh your victoiy. And this is your bap­
tism— to join with her to renounce the devil and all
his
( 130 )
Digitized by G oogle
his works; that is to say, it was all his works that
brought on your ruin. A word to the wise is
enough. But to turn to the Spirit and the Bride.
The Spirit, you must allow, is the Spirit of God ;
the Bride represents believers in God ; for Christ
is compared to the church, and to a man and his
wife. You do not suppose the church meaneth the
walls or the building : no, it means the building of
the body of man, as by the hand of God. Then before
the .Revelation can be fulfilled, the Spirit of God
must visit all the churches, to make the church the
Bride. ' Then why do ye marvel it cometh to one at
first as the shadow, and then follows unto all as the
substance? Now he that denieth those things,
must deny his Bible, and take away the prophecies
that are there written ; for I have not added thereto,
nor taken therefrom ; for it is written in the book of
G od ; and whomsoever says it is wrongly explained
or revealed to me, let him explain it another way,
and be must add thereto, or take therefrom ; for I
have shewed you the.meaning of the chapter. How
can Christ’s kingdom come upon earth, before the
Spirit of Christ is come to warn them of his com­
ing ? And you may as well.expect the. sun in its full
meridian as soon as it is risen, as to expect the
Spirit of God will appear to every one when it first
cometh to warn. Yet by one Spirit ye have divers
gifts (see l Corinthians xii. 17» 18); the spirit
o f wisdom, the spirit of knowledge, the spirit
o f working miracles, and the spirit of prophecies;
all these came from one and the same Spirit; for
as the many members make the body, so the
different gifts make the body of Christ’s church i
for.wisdom alone would fail you in the coming of
the Lord Jesus Christ; and that day would come
unawares, was not the spirit of prophecy given to
warn you of his com ing; and the spirit of prophe^
• would fail, was not the spirit of wisdom given to
R 2 others
< 13i )
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
others to discern it. ' So th£ head cannof say to the
foot, I haVe no need of thee; nor the foot to the
. head, I have no need of thee; then where is room
for any to boast ? If I had ten thousand gifts o f
prophecy, and could speak with the tongues of
angels, if none had the spirit of wisdom to discern
it, my prophecies would avail nothing. He that
hath the spirit of wisdom to discern, hath the gift
of God ; for the natural man cannot discern the
things of God ; for they are spiritually discerned.
So, if you weigh these things deeply, you will say I
have not made myself more than another ; neither
am I preferred before another; but there is one that
cometh after me, that is preferred before me, who
shall discern all mysteries; but where there are
prophecies they shall fail. Prophecies were given
in parr, and on condition, that when one faileth, the
other must also. Jonah’s prophecies concerning
Nineveh failed at the time (hey were mentioned;
the prophecies concerning Eli also failed ; as did
those concerning Hezekiah ; and many more, whicli
I could mention ; but charity never faileth. Now
charity is to judge your God, slow to anger, and of
great mercy ; and threateneth, because he is loath
. to punish ; and repenteth of the evil, if men repent
of their faults, as Nineveh did. Therefore you cannot
believe all that the prophets have said : the Lord
repented of the blessings pronounced on Eli, when
he saw him careless of his honour and glory: the
Lord said, they that honour m e I will-honour; and
they that despise m e , shall be lightly esteemed. I
have explained these things, for the sake of some,
who have said, that when they read my first books
they trembled for fear of the famine. If this fear
be in our land, no famine will be in i t ; for to that
land that trembleth at his word, the Lord will look ;
that is, he will look in m ercy; but that, land that
mocketh his word, will shrink beneath his rod ; and
( 132 )
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
what land that calamity will fall on, I know n o t;
but this I am assured, from my prophecies to convince
all nations that this calling is of God, that there
will come a three years famine, wherein there will
be neither earing nor harvest. W hat nation, I
know not} whether in France, or Spain, Africa, or
America, or some other remote part; but I hope
the Lord will keep it from Our land ; though I am
promised it will never happen in my days; for I
shall not live to see the affliction ; yet I feel for
those that are behind ; and know the just must suf­
fer with the unjust. M y prophecies go to all na-
, tions; and it was unintentionally omitted in the
first book, That the Lord would go from nation to
nation in the fierceness of his anger.” Now I have
set one sign before you, to convince all nations this
calling is of God; viz. in some nation or other there
will be three years of total famine, wherein there
will be neither earing nor harvest, And now I am
come to set another sign before them ; if the things
that are already come to pass, and what is now be­
fore you being foretold, do not convince mankind it
is of God, as men think the Lord stoops too low for
them to regard his words (which was the very spirit
of the Jew's ; they thought the Lord stooped too low
for them to regard him -,) now I say, if the Gentiles
are the same, I will set another sign before them—
1 “ I will send out my destroying angel to go through
the land, and I will set a mark over every house
that faith and fear are in, and the angel shall pass
by the door; but every house that mocketh my
words, because I have stooped so low, the destroying
angel shall enter in and destroy; and those that
wish to abide in the dark, in the dark let them
abide, till I come upon them as a thief in the night,
and take them unawares. For out of your own
mouths ye are condemned; for ye confess it is not
placed as though it came from men of learning,
( *33 )
Digitized by G oogle
and then ye must confess the Lord hath chosen the
weak foolish things of .this world to confound the
great and learned, when ye see all these judgments
executed that are here mentioned.”
Simple as these books appear to some readers, they
are too high for any man to climb to, and too deep for
any one to fathom. Could ye behold the mysteries of
them, ye would see they wanted neither eloquent lan­
guage, brightness of speech, nor noble style to set
them forth, but depth of wisdom toUnderstand them;
and were they put into eloquent language, deeply
spoken, and wisely placed, as though they came
from men'of learning, they would bathe all your,
belief, and men would judge it a cunningly devised
fable from some wise inspired penman. But now
to convince you it is from the simple, and that the
Lord hath dealt sim ply; yet, however simple this
may appear, it is too strong for all your senses;
ye could no more look into these three volumes of
books, and see them clear, and keep your senses,
than ye could stedfastly behold the burning sun, and
pot hurt your eyes; for the one is as much too
strong for your senses, as the other is for your eye­
sight. So I must call you to our Saviour’s dying
words, “ Eloi, Eloi, lama sabachthani ?” My God,
my God, why hast thou forsal m me? And- may not
this be the language of every heart, My God, my
God, why hast thou forsaken us, that in seeing we
cannot see, and in hearing we cannot understand ?
for in the midst of life we are in d^ath, as we are
dead to the perfect happiness we were first created
for ; but we shall be changed ; and this change must
take place with thousands, that we may taste of*
that perfect happiness, which to live in God will
produce; and this change must come to this gene­
ration, or ye could not have a true knowledge of
the good and evil fruit; and this knowledge will
come untq thousands that are in the midst of life
and
( 134 )
Digitized bv >
G oogle
and death, which I shall hereafter more clearly ex­
plain.
And now I shall come to the thoughts of my own
heart, which I was ordered to pen and put in print,
from what is revealed to me, and how the Bible is ex­
plained, which has thrown my ideas into a different
channel from what they ever were before. I was me­
ditating how all was explained; and it appeared so
clear and just to me* so consistent with the wisdom
of the Almighty,' in creation and preservation, from
the manner all. was-placed, and all was spoken at
first; all have suffered, both God and man; then,
to act according to the justness of God, the serpent
must be cast. The ponderings of my heart I was or­
dered to pen, and my secret thoughts were known
to the Lord. When I had written the whole, I was
answered as man would answer man.
Here I shall give to the world at large what were
the meditations of my heart, and how they were an­
swered by the Spirit.
I was reflecting from the creation, how the man
and woman were both obedient to the commands of
the Lord, until the serpent, which is the devil, ef­
fectually imposed on the simplicity, innocency, and
ignorance of the woman, by telling her they should
be as Gods, knowing good from evil: Here she was
ignorantly betrayed by artful lies, and simply drew
in the man. Then the Lord spake unto the serpent,
and fixed his curse to be above every creature; and
he should bruise the heel of the seed of the woman ;
and the woman’s seed should bruise his head. Now
you know the serpent hath already done it, unless ye
deny the death of Christ. Then as all the prophe­
cies of the Bible have come both on God and man,
how can they be fulfilled until the serpent hath
received the sentence passed on him ? This must
be, to fulfil the words of the Lord ; and I cannot
see the Bible clear without it. The justice, wis­
dom,
( 135 )
Digitized by G oogle
V
dom, goodness, and truth, of the Lord of Hosts, thus
seem clear; but I cannot see them clear in any other
way. The Lord cannot do justice to himself or to
his Son/nor to the man or the woman, unless they
fulfil his words, by casting the devil in the very
manner in which it is placed and revealed. Then
men and devils must acknowledge the Lord is clear
from the blood of all m en; and that the woman the
Lord gave to man brought him that happiness at last
which he promised man at first. When I had writ­
ten these words, which had been the ponderings of
my heart, I was answered, as man will answer man—
{<Thou say'est, thy God cannot do justice to him­
self or to his Son, nor to the man or the woman, un­
less he does cast the serpent, as he promised to the
woman. Answer for thyself—
Why the Lord cannot dojustice to himself?"
I answer. How can the Lord, in justice to his
honour, and glory, and great name, suffer the Son
of his bosom to come down upon earth, and suffer
such sorrowful life, and die so shameful a death, to
bear the blame man cast on him, and the serpent
be screened from bearing the blame the woman
cast on him, and escape being treated with that con­
tempt he deserves ? The Son of God had done
no wrong, but was deserving of'honour, love, and
respect. Every honour, every "gratitude, and every
love, was due to the all-gracious Son of God. And
if he condescended to bear the blame man cast on
him, shall that cruel serpent, the devil, be freed by
a just God ? Far be it from thee, O Lord. If thou
art clear from the blood of all men, wilt thou not
be clear to cast it back on the serpent, and just to
condemn him ?
Here I was answered, as man would answer
man.
“ I shall now answer thee. From the ponderings
of thy heart thou fearest to speak out what thy
mind
( 136 )
Digitized by
,yG oogle
mind conceiveth ; but canst thou conceal from m b
thy thoughts ? I tell thee, no ; for I am in them.
Thou sayest, no judge will condemn an innocent
person, and free a guilty murderer : these were thy
thoughts; and thou judgest thy God cannot be just,
to cast his Son, and free the devil. Thus far I will
not blame thee. But answer me, how I cannot do
justice to man, if I do not cast the serpent ?”
Here is my answer. Man was betrayed by the
woman and the serpent, and that guilt was passed
on all men unborn. -Now man- said he should not
have disobeyed had it not been for the woman ; the
woman said she should not, had it not been for the
serpent. Then to give mao a fair trial for himself*
to discover where the fault lay, is to remove the
cause, and to take the powers ofdarkness from man, as
man lies under condemnation to this present moment.
Here I was answered—
“ How dost thou prove that ?”
I answered, from the Jews.
They stand out against their God, and their God
against them; for it is written, In seeing they should
not see; andin hearing they shouldnot understand. So
they stand out against their God, through unbelief
against his Son: for if the Father and the Son are one,
they must stand out against their Lord, if they do
against the Son. Now it is written, The God of this
ic orId hath so blinded their eyes, that in seeing they
cannot see; nor in hearing they cannot understand.
Now if the Lord doeth them justice, he must take
that power from them, that in seeing they may see,
and in heating they may understand. And if man
suffereth for what his forefathers did, ought not the,
serpent to suffer for what he hath done, that was a
transgressor from the beginning ?
O, my God ! pardon my weakness, if I have an­
swered wrong. But thou hast commanded me to
. utter the thoughts of my heart, which I cannot
S * conceal
( 137 )
Digitized by ( g o o g l e
conceal from the Most High. If wrong, cleanse
the thoughts of my heart hy the inspiration of the
Holy Ghost.
Here I was answered, as man would answer man.
“ Thou hast Bpoken'right in all thou hast said.
Now answer for the woman. W hat justice is there
due to her, that-is now left undone ? Answer me
that, and I will answer thee again.”
• 'I answered. The woman still crieth for ven­
geance against the old serpent, called the devil.
She was first' betrayed by his arts, and condemned
by God and man; her first son was/betrayed by
the devil to slay her second son ; and when in
purity and innocence she was so highly favoured and
honoured of God as to be visited from on high, and
to have the power of the Holy Ghost, and bare the
Son of God, being called a spotless and pure virgin,
pure and innocent before the Lord; yet how was her
heart rent in pieces, and how was she pierced to
the soul, to see her son Offered up as a malefactor
bn the cross, by the devil’s entering into the heart
of man ! Then does not the woman’s blood cry
for vengeance against the devil ? If she cast it on
man, she must cast it on herself for betraying man
at 'first; but the serpent first betrayed her; then
surely her soul must cry for vengeance against the
devil, that was the author and finisher of all her
sorrows. Then may not the woman cry for ven­
geance, and plead, Lord, avenge me of mine adver­
sary, that is the devil, that we may wash our hands
in innocence, and bring a pure heart before thee, O
my God ?
These questions and answers may appear simple
to a world, that does not consider, that Abraham
was permitted to plead with the Lord, and Moses
the same, and Jacob wrestled with the angel: then
now we must be all wrestling Jacobs, if we will be
prevailing Israels.
* Whatever
( 138 )
Digitized by
,G oogle
Whatever may be the judgments of men on my
answers, I was replied to by the Spirit in the fol­
lowing manner, as soon as 1 had written the last
words— bring aj>ure heart before thee, Omy God:
"Joanna, Joanna, I'll answer again.
Thy words and thy wisdom will ever remain
Enrolled in heaven, and publish’d on earth.
Yemen o f learning mark well what she saith.— ^
But out of her senses you know she is plac'd,
And judg'd by men's wisdom as simple as the ass;
But know that the ass did wise Balaam reprove ;
And now from this shews the woman is love ;
As much as she's scorn’d and despised by man, ,
I ask you what spirit unto her is come,
That she from her heart can now forgive all,
And pray for the vengeance on Satan to fall ?
A hazard most fatal you know she roust run;
If I do forsake her you know she's undone ;
If trilling with God, how can she appear }
The anger of Satan she must kindle he.e.
So how do you judge her now trifling with all, '
An ass now for wisdom your nation to call,
And warn you of dangers before they appear ?
Then judge from your Gospel, your Master is here
So strongly upon her, your Gospel now see ;
I ne'er will condemn her for carrying of mb.
So now if you judge her as ignorant as an ass.
Your King is upon her, the Gospel now says;
So those that believe her, their clothing is here,
. And now laid upon her, the Master to bear;
The boughs and the branches you all may cut down,
Jn the way you may strew them, from heaven's the sound.
If this appears simple, as simply I came,
Your King on an ass, for to spread forth his fame.
For where is the man will so humbly descend }
Your chariots are ready your kings to attend.
But now all the mystery I surely shall clear;
I we.n in that manner to shew you all here,
When 1 come to conquer, in triumph appear,
A woman that's*simple my Spirit must bear.
So you that believe her, your clothing is cast
In faith n >w upon her, your joy now may burst.
The boughs and the branches I'll surely cut down,
Men's wisdom advancing I’ll surely confound;
For babes now and sucklings my praises shall sing.
From Solomon’s wisdom I next will begin $
For he that’s so humble at first to appear,
S 2 * At
( 139 )
Digitized by L i O O Q l e
At last is exalted, I now tell you here;
And now before honour humility comes.
These words they were spoken by wise Solomon j
Then Solomon’s wisdom I tell you must shine;
The Spirit from heaven was given divine;
And now you will find all heaven descend;
I come for to warn you, and speak as a friend,
Thac all is fulfilled so near to the word;
You’ll find that the Spirit’s the Spirit of God,
That work'd in the woman to see it all clear.
If men do despise her, 1 now tell you here,
This May will be fatal, 1 tell ye, for man;
Aqd coals on your heads from her prayers will come.
Her questions and answers 1 bid you weigh deep ;
Consider the cost, or you’ll fall in the pit.
The way you are building you cannot go through;
The cost is too great to be paid now by you ;
My laws you have bn ken) my Son you have slain;
Mark well what is spoken, I tell you again.
As wise as the woman you all must appear;
Cast all on the 6erpent, your debt for to clear;
And say that he robb’d you to run you in debt.
Mark well from your judges bow oti db they put
Words w'isely beforeyou, the prisoner to free;
And I am your judge, and have done so by ye;
Because that ye know not your danger’s so near ;
To execute justice my angels appear,
As soon as 1 send them to fulfil my word *
,
Then blame not your judge, you'll find ’tis the Lord
That skew'd you the vision so clear in the dream;
And from the two boys 1 the whole shall explain;
For well I know many will turn to the beast,
Though death’s now upon them, the sentence is past;
While others for mercy they humbly will cry,
“ My God, on the serpent thy vengeance must lie,
“ For I have been robbed, t can’t.pay the score”—
The thief must he taken, I need not say more.
So this I have publish’d, your hearts for to try >
And then fast my arrows they surely will fly.
And deep you will find is the vision and dream
That were spoke of those boys; you may read it again.
But deeper doors I have to open,
' Deeper shall my Spirit go;
You shall know, from wbat I’ve spoken,
From Jehovah all doth Bow.
Dccpef dreams and deeper visions
Surely shall to all appear,
’ I’ve
( 140 )
— Digitized by G oogle
( I4i )
I’ve begun in this new century,
And the scenes I’ve chang’d them here..
Men have chang’d the scenes already
By the century that is past,
And the end they made it bloody j '
But the new I’ll make it burst.
For the style by man was alter’d,
And the shadow all do keep;
So I see that men do faulter,
A ll my flock is hush’d asleep.
Do my shepherds see no danger ?
Nor my Bible yet discern ?
They mistake the heavenly Stranger,
In what way he meant to come.
Perfect like the style they’ve chang’d i t ;
But their changing I’ll nut blame;
Eleven days they brought it sooner,
And like man i’ll do the same.
So the days they shall be shortened,
As they shorten now the year,
As men did by the last century,
So the new shall now appear.”
■ Here I have finished the answer of the Spirit to
my words. Judge as you please; it was answered
me by a Spirit invisible.
I shall now answer a letter, sent me by a gentle­
man from London. Having read my second book,
he desired to have these two questions answered, viz.
] i W hether the woman deceived the serpent, and did
not first eat the forbidden fr u it ? 2. W ill a foreign
enemy land in England ?
This I shall publicly answer, as many of my
readers may be of the same mind. The woman eat
of the forbidden fruit, and gave it to her husband:
so she did not cheat the serpent that w ay; as she
knew no arts, she could practise none ; she was be­
trayed in a state of perfect innocence ; but ..the way
she cheated the serpent was, in casting the blame
on him. And now, to make it more plainly appear,
I will answer it from the judge of assize. Bring a
criminal before a judge, an tfif be is condemned Tor
stealing,
Digitized by G oogle
stealing, and he brings the person who was confe­
derate with him, and drew him in at first to do the
deed, by assuring him there was no harm in what
he did, as the property was his ownj and therefore
he had a right to take it, and thereby deceives an ig­
norant and innocent person ; now when such a case
is brought before a just judge, if the law obliges him
to punish the one, would not justice compel him to
punish the other, knowing the innocent was be­
trayed by the guilty ? Let two such stand before a
just judge, and which do you think he would be most
ready to punish ; he that was betrayed through ig­
norance, or he that deceived him through deceitful
arts to make the innocent as bad as himself? Any
just man can be a just judge in such a cause as this;
for Satan was an old offender in heaven, and drew the
third part after him, and so he began upon earth to
draw in man the same; but the woman turned* as
you say, king’s evidence, and betrayed her betrayer.
Now judge the cause. When the Lord, beginneth
like man, he that turneth king’s evidence is freed,
and so is man. God will deal with man, perfectly
after the manner of men; therefore it is written, our
secret thoughts must be had into judgment; and the
saints must judge.the earth. M y secret thoughts are
gone out into the world ; and the day of judgment is
already begun with man. This I shall explain more
clearly in my next book ; as I cannot answer all the
first inquiry in this; for my book was too near its
end before I received the letter; but you will see
every particular answered in my next book.
Now 1 shall answer the other inquiry in part, from
a dream or vision that was shewn me in 1795. I
dreamt I had a basket of birds, and; that I Irft them
at a house I knew not where, and left, them to the
care of the people; but when I came to seek them,
they were gone. I thought I went from place to
( 142 )
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
place to find them; but to no purpos^^ t last I &hr
two monks and two,friars ; I asked them if they had
seen them. I thought they scornfully answered me,
(i They knew nothing of the birds, nor had they seen
them.” After a long and fruitless search, I gav^
them up for lost, and went away with a heavy he%rt,
despairing of ever seeing them more. At last, to
my great comfort, some one said they had brought
my basket of birds, and opened them ; but they were
so changed, I did not know them. They stood on
their feet like children, with the most beautiful fea­
thers I ever saw, hanging in the most curious man­
ner. Those who brought them, and others that
were with me, stood and gazed with amazement at
the beauty of the birds. I shall give the explanation
in part, as it was explained on the following day.
ff To monks and friars I will never stoop:
LetfFr^nce beware, it is not there
My Gospel is made known j
And let the Romish soldiers fear,
It is not so in Spain.
Then let the feather’d fowls appear,
If they be in your land j
For though thy basket seemeth lost,
I’ll bring it to thy hand:
And as the feathers seem’d to hang
In such a curious strain,
Such birds I’ll surely make them here
As ne’$r were seen by men.
No foreign nation you’ve to fear
W ill now invade your land ;
But of your own you may take care—
Be wise, and understand.
( 143 )
O England, O England, I'd have you take care;
A houae now divided I'd have you beware;
A city-divided, ojfc! how will ye stand ? -?
W ith wisdom decide it, and so keep your land.
In heart be united ? .when you have a peace,
If my warnings are slighted your griefs wilj^tcrease.
The monkt nor the friars my Gospel don’
My honour shall keep you, if you will aj
>
*
Ipti
rn
Digitized byG oogle
J*1Jwarn you of dangers when .they dp appear; %
And in my next volume 1*11 shew you more clear
What.doors I ’ve to open to bring toyour view; *
1The woman hath spoken, you’ll find it all true;
So let May be ov?r, and June bat appear,
Then weigh well my writings, and with all compare;
Your uobles and country, see how att doth stand,
And then I’ll inform you how to judge your land.** t
(/ 144. )) •
But all must look to the old style. I have not gisfc1
en you all the explanation of the dream in 179£>j?
but I have set a mark of whatisSpqken how fcdm •
the two woes, when the verse bfeginsio change. J
Now .1 am come to the end df^be .tiHfd volumeo^
a work,, on which men ofle&nihg ^nd jninisters are
at adoss to form a judgment, whether T am inspired,
by the Spirit of the Lord, or whether myhead is a. .
little deranged/ -Ministers have acknowledge^ thew-
are at a loss, and'%ilrnot therefore decide hastily*:-
But I can assure tKcm my head is nq way derange^'
but by the visitation o f some Spirit invisible 5:an<|.';
what Spirit that is, may be easily discovered from the?,
vision seen in 1794, whtn I was^petftttF^^it^e; !£
then three books puzzle the heads of tne/bara|^>tn^
,, fourth will puzzle them vnuclximore,
rite day of judgment explained, It
place upon eartli, before it takes place w itb th i,
Lorrfvl,.
S h all! astonish my readers to tell tfepn; m.eh mustf:.
judge theLord, before the-Lord-judgethfraen } And-..-
as the war was begun in heaven,'Sow will now.en&.
upon' earth ; which meaneth,men will bedividdf,
concerning Christ’s kingdom,
Joamid S6a$b<$ti '
Exeter, iJf^y )9 th; 180U ‘ ; / W * '
I f L O N D O N ;
PRINTED «. IWftrssfrAC, WOOD I T t t t T i SFA>ffcLDi;-
A lso hy W. fiy'M
O
N
D
s* (rbiuly Im h?; ‘wnd the Mit* RvrLeigh*,
S L SifoeU 's, J&e/er; v
L
amuel. liiAST, L te tk ; l.1: Mittbl.Ea O
N
*
*T[or]i ;aiid J am es^ i gut, Coventry 'Street>S/vuHrid*?* fi eras-
ia&ihire',
[PRICE NINE PENCE.]
Digitizeef-tey G oogle
The Strange Effects o f Faith;
WITH
REMARKABLE PROPHECIES,
- MADE IN 1792, &C.
O F T H IN G S W H ICH A R E T O CO M E.
FOURTH PART.
I SH ALL begin thia book with informing my
readers, I am sorry to say, few have discerned
what they read, as they expected to“set: some won-
droqs things this May and June*; .hot Celling to
mind, that in the first book it was written, the ten
days most be turned into ten years, before man
should see it clear; and in the second hook it was
written,' that, what was spoken one year should not
appear till the next, (in the very page where it was
written o f May and June,) then the ten years w ill
be up; that all is fulfilled at the appointed time,
that was written in the prophecies; pot appearing
the year it was spoken, but fulfilled the year after,
Therefore I said in my last book— - *< - '
“ Let May be over, and June but appear,
iThen weigh well my Writings, and with all compare;
. Ye men now of learning, judge how all doth stand,
And if you've discernment you may judge your land. .
. The doors I've to open to bring to your view,
, Ftom-theten years was spoken, you’ll find it all true;
* In 1801, when the First Edition was printed.
•• <
A
The Fourth Edition, printed in Janaary, I8f4,
by W. Marchant, Ingram-Coart, London,
fromthe Third Edition,printedin Jin. G o O g lc
Wiat doors could bd deeper to bring; to y&tir tight.
If by your own judgment you now proved it right?
But now from these writings you all shall see clear/
1*11 begin in this oehtury to shew you all here.
T h e doors that w ere bolted so strongly for man,
W h en out o f the garden o f Eden he cam e;
So deep from his knowledge I’ll bring to his view ,
I now shajl unbolt them, and you’ll see it tru e;
But sure Ukfe the Bible this all must come round,
A nd none but my sheep can e’er judge o f the sound.
But now I'll speak plainer, and come to the fa ll:
I opened your side, and I clos’d it from a ll;
. For deep foas the sleep that I cast upon man,
And deep is the m ystery— the bone must return,
So closely united in heart and in mind,
O r the man to perfection you never can find.
So now I w ill open the door from the fa ll;
Then sew no more fig-leaves, they’ll not cover all.
A h ! why from m y presence yourselves do you hide ?
Rem ember the bone that I took from your side;
YoUr blafcie then upon her and mb it was cast, 1. : . . . .
. . A n d this is the door that I now shall make burst,
T o cast her temptations on Satan and men,
A nd in her next volume her history must come, J
( H ow she hath been tempted, and how she w ithstood;
i . Then I dsk you, what spirit to her you’ll allude? ;
i; ; See how often her senses by man have been cast,
. . . Then you’ll see how many their senses have lost,
W h o ju d g’d by her virtue her senses w ere gone ;
You’ll find in her history it so fell on them* . .
* ■ So first itpoh man I have brought back the blow,
k A nd next on the serpent my fury shall flo w ;
, T hen you’ll see the w o m an was took from m y side ;
" 7 ' In heart sounited the Scriptures apply’d.
:; So know fitom this woman the fulness is come,
You’ll find I am .present in the woman’s form ;
T hat is, in her form all this doth ap p ear;
But sure *tis my Spirit to make it all cle a r;
For by her ow n wisdom she cannot effect, _
H o more than another, the w ay I direct. ’
“ Now I shall come to the fulness of time, o f the
woman made under the law. When the woman
was first dreated, «he was made to complete the
happiness o f man, and t<
>be his helpmate. The
tree o f knowledge was planted in the garden o f
Eden. The woman was taken from the side o f
man; not o f the dust o f the ground, but of pun-
140
Digitized by G oogle
HT
fied clay, the bdtieof mas, whitb h« stated in per-
fection, to complete his happiness* The tree o f
knowledge, was the knowledge pf Cod, and the
knowledge of tfee devil; the good and* evil fruit
both hiing on the tree. Then as man was divided
into two parts, if the same hand that brought him
the knowledge o f t[ieCvil ftpit, dogs, iy?:t,bring him
the knowledge o f the jp o d , fruit, hie may still
blame his Maker for ever forming'him the woman,
as the source o f all his misery ; apq man may
charge his God foolishly; for ^ l^ p d e fh as though
I ordained it to bring on man’s destruction; but
now be it known untothee, O man, f ordained and
placed the whole for man’s preservation, well know­
ing the depth of Satan, that be would begin upon
earth, as he did in heaven; and temjft man as he
did the angels, till he had drawn him into the same
destruction; then hp>v could | scfeeq, the man?
for what would Satan say ? . ...........,
u I f all alike the path is straight,
Then all alike must come,
I ask you. in thp judgm ent-day,
H ow Leonid screen the map ?
N ow 1*11begin for to explain,,
• A n d make the m ystery clear; V
Out o f the dust I made at fir^ ‘ ‘ ‘ ‘ - *
M y perfect image th ere; \
I breath'd in him, U then w as seep, " *
M y Spirit, bright and fa ir;
And lord below , you all shall know , -
I did nrtyHkenejs m ak e;
A paradise I’plac’d him in,
T o make his bliss com plete;
T he trees around, you know , w ere (puftd,
W hereof I bade him ta ste ; ’ ’
T he tree o f knowledge t fp rb ^ e,
For w ell I knew his case* ^
Had dust increas'd in p arad i^ ,
Satan had found a w ay,1"
A s he in heaven did 6rst begin.
T he angels did betray.
u For now to man the time is conte
T o judge the worid below,
A 2
Digitized by L i O O Q l e
HI
And now the mysteriesI'Dexplain, '
Why I ordain'd it so.
In heaven’s high courts, enthron'd above.
The rebel there was plac'd;
And well he knew I lov'd the Soft, .
Distinguish'd from the rest; ^
Which swell'd his pride to throw aside
My Son's united reign;
This Satan’smalice caus'd to swell,
And made the heaven^ unclean*
He then began as gofl and king,
And thought to reign in heaven;
A mutiny he there did gain,
*
' • And he from thence was driven.
■All heaven in disorder stood, '
...\ And parties fast increas'd} •
Had I not cast him headlong down
5 The tumult ne'er"had ceas’d.
No sword of war did e'er appear
More dreadful here below;
But loud the sound,made heaven resound,
As tumult quick did shew.
Satan the king, declar'd by some,
Was then pronounc'd in heaven;
To shew themof his bloody reign .
A kingdom soon was given.
“ Now 1*11explain what I do mean;
I claim the heavens my own ;
And soon 1 banish'd himfrom thence
And did him then dethrone.
To try again his future reign,
I soon created man,
T o fill the place that Satan left,
And paradise command.
Now I'll begin to shewto man
How 1 made him at first,
And perfect like die heavenly plan
I order’d all the dost
^I made the man in my own form,
In my own likeness stood;
I made him lord of all below,
And gave him all was godd;
I made my plan so much for man
For to resemble heaven ;
I took the partner fromhis side,
That unto himwas given:
So like my Son, the woman cAme, ,
The partner of his sou1,
Digitized by G oogle
Andso my plan I plac’d ftrfaan,
In my own likeness all,
I and my Son were both as O ne;
I took him from my side;
And so the woman I did form.
Which I pronounc’d the Bride,
For to bring forth a glorious earth,
As I had made in heaven;
I made the angels as the birth
Of children you have given.
Vshall explain,what this does mean:
I brought up children there,
And they against me did rebel,
Let every soul see clear.
Now I’ll begin in words more plain.
As this doth puzzle thee;
But surely ’tis for learned men
The mysteries to see,
How soon theearth was then drawn forth
So much to belike heaven,
To try the king who wants to reign,
A pbwer tohim was given.
When down below, let mortals know,
I did the rebel cast;
And now the mysteries plain I’ll shew,
How every thing was plac’d.
149
“ The tree o f knowledge o f good and evil was the
knowledge of God and the devil; therefore I for­
bade the roan to eat it, and pronounced him dead
if he ate thereof. This command was given to man;
and to try the whole, I left the man to himself; the
woman to herself; and the devil to himself; all were
left to their own wiU and power, to obey, or dis­
obey ; and the man and woman stood in perfect
obedience, till the serpent began upon earth, as he
had done in heaven,- to work by arts to betray the
woman. For as his malice came, for you tojudge
the earth, I have shewed you my plan, why I crea­
ted the whole, and why I placed it on conditions.
Could you call m s just with Satan, that was once an
angel o f light, and had long been a companion o f
God and angels in heaven, to cast him from heaven,
and chain him down in hell for his rebellion in hea-
Digitized by G oogle
<
l«t>
ren, before I had tried fen Vef&titfptm ‘earth? He
wanted to be a king, arttdbave the power in his own
hands; many o f the angels be had influenced to
judge him fit for aking and governor, ahdtheyjoin­
ed with him, tilll'Cast'thj&fh'ttllOntof heaven; and
.blasphemy soon burst from Satan and his angels, in
the like manner as he came to thee, againstthe Lord,
and the Son of God. Then Icrcated man, and gave
Satan power As a god of this world, and fixed his
reign at six thousand years, wherein I laboured: and
one day is as a thousand yeara with the Lord, and I
am the Lord tbdt hath spoken it ; owe -thousand
years o f rest. I have said, my Spirit shall not al­
ways strive with man: I have been striving with
man ever since the fall; 1 have felt for man; f
-have pitied man, well knowing'what-powerful ad­
versary and enemy he had.tp -Work with. But let
men know I am their King, their Captain, and their
Conqueror, to fight all:their battles for them, if
they join with m e . For When I bring the tree o f
knowledge to all their view, the Lord is good, won­
drous, and wise, in all his ways; just and right in
all his works; and the same hand tliatpliicked the
■■ evil fruit, and brought it to>the man, Will assuredly
bringyoutotkeknowledgeofthegood, thatyeoiay
not chargeG.odfoolishly, for givingyou tliewoman
to complete yonr bliss: and by 'beritsball be com­
pleted, as 1 promised-man a t first; or Satan: must
outwit M E, if she does not bruise his head.
“ So she and l the cause will try,—
And let the stars appear;
If in the land there twelve do*lie
To judge the star is here5
Then they shall see themy^eiry,
How all’s inroll’d in heaven;
And every mystery 111 unfold>
To them itshall be given.
For here’s the ma.a r ia .ob of the Lamb
Thft shall them allunite;
Digitized b v v j Q O Q l C
H 1
Their laipps vyith oil Pll surely trim,
And make them all burn blight.
Tor Cana’s wonders shall begin;
I’ll make your water>ij\e *
. ’^nd greater wonders shall be seep
Than were wrpught atthat time*
When you appear to see it clear,
To know it came ftom heavep*
Then every sea} >vill bp reveal’d,
And to your hands pe givep.
u So, shepherds all, now hear your call,
And judge your long-los^ sheep,
Whom men conceiv’d was lost to a}!.
Her tracks were gone too deep.
You hear Che sound that doth abound,
lik e simple diepherds gaze—
ff W e see what tracks do now appear*
“ Anda^elpst in th’ ainpzej
9
4 IPt be from heaven to us *tis given
14 To judge the world below;
** And is tms the pearl hidjrom aH)
u The truth yveTl surply know* ^
i *# And novy act wise; if she disguise,
“ W e’ll soon find out the cheat ;
“ But if from heaven the sound is given, J
4
4 TTis our Emmanuel’s feet
“ That do appear ; his tracks are here,
14 So wondrous in the sound;
4
4 His tracks were gone so long before*
" They all were buried down.
“ So in amape we well might gaze*
" To see die sheep appear,
•* Whose footsteps we could never trace,
4
1 Which way she wander’d there.
4
4 Beyond our heads are mysteries hud;
4
4 They mysteries are to all:
4
4 The Prophets knew not what they said*
4t If this is now the call.”
Now I’ll explain what I do mean:
They did not understand
What was the fulness of the time;
They judged it then at hand.
“ When the fulness o f the time was come, God
sent his Son, made of a woman, made under the
law. Now I ask you, what fulness of time was
then, when the Jews were cast out, whom I pro-
Digitized by G oogle
Bounced my chosen people? What fulness can you
make good was done at that time? But now 1 will
tell you the fulness of the timeis, tofulfil the Bible;
to bring men out o f darkness into my marvellous
light; to redeem you from the fall; to call the Jews
from all nations, whither I have scattered them;
to bring my sons from afar, and my daughters
from the ends o f the earth; to have the heathens
for my inheritance, and the uttermost parts o f
the earth for my possession; to pour out my
Spirit upon all flesh; and bring in one thousand
years or rest for man and m e ; and then the ful­
ness all will see— that I am in the woman’s form,
and brought this knowledge unto man. Now
call my words to your remembrance: I f the days
were not shortened, no flesh could be saved; but
for the elect’s sake they will be shortened: the
e l e c t was m a n ; and, f o r his sake, the six thou­
sand years will be shortened, to ^ive a fair trial
to men and devils,
15*
“ So now be clear, seven thousand years«i—
Six thousand’s Satan’s reign;
So long as he is chain’d before, '
So long I’ll free his chain.
Then certainly the j udgment day
Must surely follow next,
When I shall sever from my throne,
And all my judgments fix.
An awful day yOu all will see,
*Jus$ like the seat of w ar;
The heavenly trumpets first will sound ;
My angels must appear
With every music in their hands,
And every trumpet sound;
The music, striking every ear,
Shall reach the earthly ground;
From shore to shore my thunders roar,
And earth’s foundation shake;
Confusion must to all appear,
When I begin to take
The cause in hand so deep for men,
And bring them from the dust;
Digitized bv G oogle
In perfect order all must stand,
As they were made at first.
The graves must open, and awake.
And earth give up her dead;
The foaming billows, they will roar.
Where are some millions laid.
But such a sound will then rebound.
And trembling saints will stand.
To see that awful day appear,
When I the earth command
For to appear, and meet mb here,
.And soul and body meet;
In perfect form as now they’re known.
The likeness will be great;
But in the bloom of youth appear,
I say, they all shall come,
Much brighter than they ever werej
But shall resemble man—
Just as your pictures do appear,
Some likeness to your view ;
But I shall make the body fair.
In brighter colours too.
Thus must begin the awful scene,
And all you'll call to mind,
How in the bodies you have been;
And memories quick you’ll find,
When face to face, from every place.
Acquaintance all will meet;
And every age, 1*11 now engage,
Will their companions greet
“ Thus will appear the righteous here.
With hearts inflam’d with joy.
But when the sinners do appear,
This will their peace destroy,
To meet the foe, that here below
There did their ruin seek; ‘ *
The murderers will their sufferers know,
And tremble at their feet.
The scenes of war will then appear;
For men in ranks must stand,
And view each other face to free.
As you do now view mah.
•When this is done, war wiU begin
And enmity appear;
Men’s consciences will burn within,
To meet their fellows here.
Whom they ill-us’d, or abus’d,
By any artful hand;
153
Digitized by G oogle
For none can fly that pyvful day#
But roust together stand.
O what a scene w ill then begin,
W hen every rank turns round !
A nd perfect like the seat o f w ar
That day will sure be found :
For face,to face, as in a glass,
You surely all roust meet j
And as the day of battle is,
You’ll find the battle great:
N o glittering sword that goes abroad,
N o cannon that doth roar,
Will strike more deep in any m an;
For every shot is here,
And every dart to wound the heart
Of those that are unjust:
That day w ill make some millions smart,
For 50 to meet you must.
An awful scene will tl\cn begin,
And fast.the shots w ill fly 5
You’ll want no armour then of men,
For every armour’s Jpugh j
Because in men it all w ill come,
And every wound go d eep $
Much louder than the cannon's roar,
W ill then the sinners w eep.
Then must appear in terror here
T he kings by whom 'twas fix’d ;
T he King of G lory in the a ir ;
The prince o f darkness n e x t;
Because as king he did begin,
W anting to reign above,
And so his reign jie fix’d in m en;
Then judge which king you love.
A s men began by the French king,
T he traitor you w ill see ;
T he traitor here doth now appear
A bloody king to he.
€t A meeting then w ill soon begin,
te And men w ill Satan Jjate—
“ But how shall w e thro>v off his yeign
T he mutiny w ill be great.
€
<The K ing above, we.did slight his love,
“ W e cannot mercy find;
T he king below, with him to go,
**He w ill in fetters bind,
“ So what to do w e do not know,
But down our arms must fa ll;
154 .
Digitized by
b
yG oogle
" O let therocks and mountain cane
**To hide us now from aU !”
Then who shall fight? ’Not small nor grab
But these two kings mast stand.— '
I made them all, both great and small,
And placed in every lapd,
I say, these men that thou hast sl&in~
Now Satan hear thy doom ;
And, canst thou raise them firom the dust,
To fight against m i, come!
N o ; men w3l lay their armour by,
As dead men tney’ll appear,
While loud hosannas from my saints
The echo they will hear:
“ Bless’d be our K in g e d bless’d his rriga;
te He's worthy of a God $
" The Prince of Glory once was skua,
“ And wash’d us in his blood.**
With every sound will they abound,
“ Thrice blessed be his ndme 1 1
“ His garments onge were dipt in blood ;
“ From him our armour came;
“ He fought the battle for us all,
“ Wounded our deadly foe”— *
And endless ages shall rebound,
From heaven and earth below ;
While hearts within in love will bum.
And happiness complete.
Then will the sinners silent mourn, -
And tremble at his feet,—
u Ah; happy men!” will they begin,
“ Had we their footsteps trod,
“ In triumph we should now appear
“ With our .victorious God ;
“ No burning conscience should we Ml,
“ But hearts inflam’d with love ;
“ Then sure his worth is now set forth
“ By aQ the host above.”
For saints will praise, and angels gaae,
And trembling sinners fall:
Thus will I come with armies strong,
Till I have rescued aU.
“ The sinners’ smart will rfound my hearty
For to destroy their foe; ’
^nd shew him of bis bloody reign,
While he hath, reign’d below.
So he and I the cause will try
In that tremendous hour,
155
Digitized by G oogle
No move HI hear the sinners1cry,
Bat free them of his power.
Ill shame himthen bj sinful men,
As he did came their fail;
And prove no heaven could be m him-—
.
Helh made a hell for all,
When he was king; and see his reign;
In man it must appear;
Therefore I did let go his chain
To reign sixthousand years.
The one vou*ll see preserv'd for me.
That all may prove my reign ;
And justice must in all agree.
That he isjustly slain;
Forjustice here must now appear
To chain him down below;
The banish'd prisoners then 111 clear;
Their time is up 1 know!
" So I'll dispute, while man is mute,
And all shall hear my^sound;
I'll cut the branches ftent therbtf^ .
And then the stump I'll bind
In fetters strong, alone to burn; .
Because his rage will swell.
To see his fall, condemn'd by all,
Will kindle lames in helL
But then be clear, mo man is there,
That tremUeth at my rod;
I mean to make the mystery dear:
And aU shall find their God
Did ne’er design the human kind
Created for such woe,
As here to die, in hell to lie,
In fetters bound below.
No, no; that day, to man I say,
Satan will find the cheat:
An army strong he’ll bring with him—
But here the lines godeep; ,
•For when he comes with armies strong*­
. In hopes to win the field, -
He’ll find his men such cowards then, .
That every man will yield,
No mere to rise, (let men grow wise,)
Against the laws of Goa;
For when their leader I chastise, .
They’ll find my laws are good, .<
And all arejust; let sinners trust; ..
For I shall shew their end;
156
Digitized by^G oogle
«
And down in hefl their king shall dwell, 1
With his own hostdescend;
Thai is, be dear, his angels here, *
Whom he did drive from heaven; ,
But man is mine; he must resign; ' *
For he shall be fovgiven. ‘
Then 1^ bring forth a glorious earth, 1 ,
And place them here below;
But sure I have a paradise
• * Where all my saints shall go, ‘ #
In true perfection to enjoy *
A never-fading crown; \
For then their peace can none destroy; 4 .
A heaven to them is found. '
But those below, they*!! find it so, 1
Will greatly differ here; . ,. *
A heaven to some on earth will come)
' But anger will appear; - A
Concealed long, some hearts will burn,
. Their murderers to see; . . :
f And conscience burn, ’twillmakesomemourn, r
- And spoil their harmony. ' l
So that complete the sinners’ state » •'
Will not be in the end, , . . f
Like those that do my favours seek—
’Tis deep all thou hast penn’d:
But man Til free from misery; ' ;
If sorrows do abound,
That one the other can’t forgive, .
Your grief will then.be found*
4
4So I’ll end here, and say no more,
But weigh the matter deep;
If happiness you wish to share,
Your conscience void now keep:
Not give offence; for recompense
Will meet you on that day, -.
When I have made a heaven below,
My wonders all display'd? --f
Wonders will be, you all will see, ^ t j. 4"
When Satan’s hurried down; V ,!V*'v *" „
Such blasphemy will come fromhe, f
And horror shake the ground: ^ [ ri<'
Thunder willroil from pole to pole.
And lightning fast will fly;
Afore dreadful War than ’twas before,
When he rebell’d on high.
So wars began, and war will end,
And sucha war ’twill be, . # -
157
Digitized by G oogle
In hell In war they wifi contend
To all eternity.
So I’ll end here and say no more <
'
O f that greatjudgment day,
In colours feint I’ve given thee
O f what it then will be;
Such battles fought, such victories wroqgjbt,
And Satan’* pride will burst,
Condemn'd by all— ' What! must I, fell,
4And man preserv'd at fest?
* Then 1 can swell no more in b?H, <, *
*The angels will me blarney
• W hat! must I see such deitiny ; <
4As\setteth hell in flame*?'— J
So now at last 'twill kindle fast;
For then the fire wilfburn;
It is from them the flames must come.
And bn their heads return.*'
In this manner is the Day of Judgment explain­
ed to trie* from the rebellion in heaven to the last
day of judgment* I shall give a few lines of ray
own judgment on it.
All this is worthy of a God; ,
And may 1 thus believe.
On Satan so to cast the rod,
As he did man deceive.
T1 1 ad thy might,
158
When he doth bring all this to light,
'Twill be a glorious view*;
Men's hearts enlarg'd to speak his praise;
For who can set it forth ?
It may rebound in.endless days,
But nope chn judge his worth*
My soul too low I know must go
To fethojn things so deep*
I shall leave my own thoughts o f the justness
o f God on die. 4ay of judgment, to wiser heads
than mine, and deep divines, Vho I know will
write from it, when they are clear it is from God.
But I shall answera few objections, that some have
already made on hearing it. They did not believe
Digitized by G oogle
that sinners would ever be saved from.bell in the
day of judgment ; as it was written, Go, ye to-
cursed, iato everlasting fire, prepared foe the devil
and his angels.” But that accursed thing was the
devil. And these were answered me from ourSto-
vlour’s words: I Will separate the sheep from the
goats; the sheep on my fight hand, and the goaite
wn the left; but though hand joined in hand, the
wicked shall not go unpunished. . .
*
.*But on my right hand all my sheep shall sit;
And on the left the goats I’ll not forget:
For if I died to be the sinners’ friend,
They all shall find I’ll prove it in the end.
What in my heart did I tor Judas feel,
To see his conscience like the flames of hell! '
And in despair he died a wretched end, .>
And said he sinn’d for to betray his friend;
And in the end his friend Fll surely be, f '
; Condemn the power that first betrayed he* : !i
So here the doors are open now. for man;
The day of judgment it is nigh at hand, /
When men in judgment they must surely sit,
And tell the woman if her thoughts are right;
And in her history what in her they blame;
, . Then after that her trial must come on.
f But if the six t h b o o k it doth first appear.
The four-and-twenty elders must see clear
That I am present in the woman’s form,
When that the sixth book you do deep discern;
When all together you do deeply weigh,
Then know to man is comp the judgment day *
And then to heal the nations I'll begin.—
And now I’ll brt^g you to a deeper dream.
Which. I command thee for to pen it here,
And then the mystery I shall make it clear.”
15»
In the Christmas holidays of 1794, after I had
seen the vision at the close of that year (being
perfectly awake when I saw the vision in theChrist­
mas), this dream was brought to my view:
I thought I was at a door; and, looking hi the
heavens saw them full of sheep, lying in the air
like a flock of sheep on the mountains. In the midst
Digitized by G oogle
there was one o f the size o f a bullock, but cover'
ed with wool, like a sheep, remarkably long and
white as snow, and the head like a lamb; the others
were o f the common size o f sheep, lying round
the large one; but all had long white wool like
snow ; and their faces like lambs; some were the
size o f lambs; and all lay in the air round the
large one, and the heavens seemed covered with
them : so that some appeared near to the earth.. In
the morning when I awoke, it was said to me—
4
4 Arise, and write, the day-light now is come;
My Spirit's waiting to direct thy hand."
It is now concealed from me how it was then ex*
plained, as my writings are sealed up from me. I
only remember these words. When I had written,
“ the light came from the moon;” I was question*
ed, “ Where dost thou see the moon?” I threw
down my pen with astonishment, as ktiowiog I did
not see the moon; but judged it so from the light,
as I dreamt it at midnight. I was answered—
4
4What thou hast written, I well know is true;
'Twas I that brought this vision to tliy view."
I cannot recollect how it was then explained;
but it was in such a beautiful manner, that my
eyes were drowned in tears, while I penned what
was then revealed o f Christ and his flock. It is
now answered in the following manner.
4
4Then Christ and his flock now together must stand,
And prove firom this vision my kingdom's at hand;
And white as the wool my flock shall appear;
And the light from my lambs you shall all see it clear ;
My Spirit's descended so far from my throne,
And so near to the earth now my Spirit is come.
And surely around me I’ll gather my sheep,
And now in the air you with safety may sleep;
No light from the moon there need to appear;
I'll enlighten my shepherds to light you all here;
So walk in this light oefore it is gone;
My flock must not tarry s 'tis time for to come ;
Because that this vision's conceal'd from thy view.
How it was explained thou little dost know ;
160
Digitized by G oogle
No, no; ’tinny shepherds most search QM
t the dream;
Then you’ll find it true as I then did explain.
So of dreams now and visions another now pen;
It was of the moons; thou must give it to men.”
If I remember right, it was the same Christmas,
I dreamed that I was in bed, out in a remarkably
large open held. I thought I saw one moon over
my head, shining very bright, and another, very
large, at the end of a field, with the head ofa man
in it, like a Turk’s head. I cannot recollect how
it was explained; but I then thought it wondrous.
I shall pen the words, as it is answered me now.
161
“ Then now I will answer.— In wonders appear
Two moons, they were shining so bright in the air«
Thou sayest in one there appear’d the Turk’s head;
The field is the world wherein thou wast laid;
The head of the man in the moon did appear;
And the wisdom of Satan in some will shine clear ;
And noy in his wisdom so bright some will shine,
And give light to the world that walketh in him.
1 told thee the sun was an emblem of m b .
To give light to the world, that clear you may see ;
But sure as the moon that shines in the night,
Then unto the darkness the moon is a light.
And now by men’s conduct thou surely wilt know,
From the sun or the moon, where men’s wisdom doth flow;
For those that do gather their light from the sun,
They’ll surely see clear which way it doth come;
But those that do gather their light from the moon.
It is but in darkness their wisdom can shine;
Because that the moon cannot lighten the day.
Ye men now of learning, mark well what I say :
For deep you will find is the vision to all;
The sun must be risen to judge of your call;
Because that in darkness there many wall shine.
Contend that these writings were never divine;
The wisdom of Satan in man will appear,
And point out such light to deny it all here;
And so by man’s conduct the truth thou wilt see.
How true were the words I then answer’d to thee.
That now from thy memory I hourly conceal'd;
But unto my shepherds must all be reveal’d ;
For then they will gather their light from the sun ;
When the seals they are broken £ e day-light will come.
. B
Digitized by G oogle
'Jor now*1 (fo tell thee ko j>en wife dream mdre, ’
And thfinTet the learned toigefli^r compdre.’'
I shall now mention one dream more. In 1794,
I thoughjf I saw $ pump, the handle of which was
so very high, that I could scarce reach It, and-it
yias sohardl could get no water from it. I thought
| lay down under tne handle, and all on a sudden
'the watpr gushed out, and rah down in a large
stream till it came to a very deep pond, where there
was muddy water, -which frothed amazingly when
the clear strealft came into the pond ; and the pit
was large and deep. I was answered—
" And Is that all thou Ichoweft o f thy drriam ?
This simple mystery Idlall soon explain :
Tor in thy dream thcni ktioto’fet the puirip Was1high ;
But In U hereVahotbermyktbry;
When1For to pump it thou didst find 'it hard—
*Tis plain thy Words they' little db regard:
Therefore' ip silence thdu must sufceTy Wait;
Because the Bafidle is most high 'atra strait;
But by itself it certairtly WillJ
gb,
'The living Water shall gush but, youkndw,
And ih the'pit it Certain Will run doWh ;
(Thou khow’st the Fountainit wis under giOund;)
Ahd thbh it foamy, itrimWtoUlIhe knOWn;
But hbte*s a'hiystery thou caiikt nbtbxplarn;
Bul^tThe rdystety III explain to thbe;
FoTinfr there’s a aoutlehiyVtery.
I s k y the1pit rfcsbmfcleth that Of hell,
Wheref the infernal hostdo Purely dWell.
And wflt the living witters thither come ? *
It Wa hiysterytothdeanknOwn.
No, no; l is&yt itf ishot WHatT riieih;
The living waters'ate the living strbahi,
That like a fbuMkin Willcofae from on fti^h;
But y it the signers WHl it all defy;
And as ’tfsflOwing, shi will sare atxkidd;
They1!!‘
froth With fury forto hearthe’sband.
Thdu khdw^t foou saw’st the scarlet dye*hppekr,
Athbhgst die Waters thou didst see ittost dear;
Amf howlt bathe thoti didst itiqUlte to knoW ;
Thou;saidstthe Waters wduldbehufted thrbtifch.
So thaf thy dream thou hast hotWroteit all,
Biifot foya
b
sW
er1
$thy eag
ertail.; '
DigitizedI by G oogle
sm
. jTM&tsa&Hytf^beein thee;
But in ithere’sanother mystery.
Now for my answer thou 'dost always wait;
J
In that the mystery11 say isgrettt;
Far-as. the jb&ioittgkwith the-watersca m ,
So*wiil the tumult be in everytland;
For.saintaand sinners they will not agree —
The water dirty did appear to thee,
That in the stream R4£fd*so lie below, . •
t And make it foam when living waters flow;
So with the wicked it will certain be.;
They’ll foam with fury, and the truth you'll see.'
But this was thedream that I shewrd thee at first,
And soin the. end all my,glory shall hurst."
This was a dream in 1792. Thadibeen power­
fully visited by the blasphemy ofSatan, Whichmade
me earnest iniprayer, that.theXord would cut short
the powers of darkness. I >was-«mweretl— “iLwill
shew thee, in dreams and visionsof the night, what
I will do with him.” The same I was answered
when I was going to bed. I-went to sleep, but
seemed as full'of life and sense, as.though.I .had
been awake, when I heard the most heavenly music
I ever heard in ray lifi?,.louder than an organ, but
much sweeter. With this heavenly music Isawimy
chamber door:burst qpen, and a-man leading-in a
pig with his mouth tied round with a cord,. and~the
man led him inwith a baiter. Two .men, or angels,
I thought, stood at my bedside,withheavenly mu­
sic in their hands, while the ether led forward the
pig, which seemed to breathe forth tliteatenings
against.me, and the smokcascended from its.nos­
trils. I thought J
I trembled inm-y bed, and-was
earnest in prayer to God to save me'from'his
power, as I thought in my dream it wasthe devil.
As 1 was in-p»yer hewas ledaway, and the hea­
venly-music ceased,and all was-silent. Some hours
after, in the same night, I heard the lfke-beatvenly
music the second time; and all appeared befor&me
as at first; only I conceived.the pig seemedmore
b 2
Digitized by G oogle
liirious; butthere wasno otherdifference than that
between the former and the latter. I then awoke,
much confused. This was in 1792. I cannot re­
collect the whole of the circumstances ; but re­
member it was Satan’s being; bound. I shall here
insert the manner it is explained; as I could not
explain it myself. I was answered—
164
“ Why doubtest thou that all from heaven descend,
As thou canst not answer one word thou hast penned ?
But here is the vision I shew’d thee at first,
And here is the vision that shall surely burst
The music from heaven shall surely appear;
And loudly the music shall strike in your ear,
. That! am approaching, my kingdom is nigh;
Then surely the rebels will bitteriy cry;
A noise that’s most dreadful some thousands will make.
When the pillars of heaven begin for to shake;
And earth’s strong foundations will sure tremble here,
When Satan is bound and that sight doth appear*
Against thee his malice he’ll try for to vent.
And I tell thee in sunder he surely would rent,
If I had not bound him, as dose as thy dream;
My angels do guard thee to keep thee from him:
For now I do tell thee, could Satan get free.
He’d vent out his malice he hath against thee;
But like as thy dream do my angels appear,
By day and by night they are guarding thee here*
So all men are simple to judge that thy hand
Could write in such manner, did I not command.
No—if thou wert mocking, all mortals would see,
Satan would be catching, and soon baffle thee;
For I would not guard thee, nor keep thee from harm—
Yejudge of your Bibles, but do not discern,
As soon as impostors are risen in my name,
Thedevils lignt on them and put themto shame.
And now, it you’d wisdom, you all would see clear.
Thy life would not last, or my Bible must err,
To say that your thoughts are allopento me ;
Then surely thy writings I plainly do see;
Then surely some wonder to you must appear,
' If you judge that my Spirit hath not spoken here ;
And weigh well the writings that came from her hand,
I f you judge not from heaven, in wonders you’d stand ;
Unless to ail knowledge you’re totally dead.
The heavens are silent, and Satan is fled*
This must be the language of every heart,
Digitized by G o o g l e
Thatjudrfh 'tis not God doth these secrets impart:
For sure like thy dream must the tempter be bound,
Or all men would see how he'd quickly confound.
So now from*these lines let the learned weigh deep:
And now 1 shall answer how thousands will weep;
Because that the tempter I surely shall bind,
So much like thy dream, all my shepherds shall find.
That when they come boldly to judge of the word,
And say, " We'll see clearly if this be from God
Then the heavenly music shall sound in your ear—
“ The voice is from heaven, we've nothing to fear,"
And then of the earth they're the first I'll redeem;
And much deeper mysteries I then shall explain,
When yo u see the w o m a n in w o n d ers appear:
And wonders from heaven you surely will hear;
But this is a mystery you can’t discern,
Nor yet understand in what way I do warn;
Because from the w o m a n 111 make it all dear;
And return back the b o n b , for to shew you all here
How Satan you'll conquer, and Eden regain;
And how it was lost she shall shew you all plain;
And then all the mysteries you all will see dear;
And wonders from heaven to all shall appear;
Because I'H fulfil it so much like thy dream—~
And now from another the whole I'll explain."
[I have omitted inserting, before my dream at
midnight, that I was awoke with the most dread­
ful noise I ever heard in my life; anckwas answer­
ed, it was like the noise of hell when the devils
are chained down; then I slept and had the two *
preceding dreams.]
In 1797 I dreamt I felt myself almost dying,
and whether awake or asleep I could scarce tell;
but I felt myselfso shocked with pain, that 1 said
I could not live any longer; and thought I felt
my spirit depart from my body, and was carried
through the air to some wondrous buildings, the
most curious I ever beheld, and too remarkable to
pen. I thought there were galleries, filled with
and surrounded by soldiers. Before the galleries
there was a large court-yard, in which stood a
remarkable large oak, well spread, . and well
165
Digitized by G oogle
ym
grown* I w w r f which I thought they had
gilded all' over, with, gold; and^ tied ribbons all
swords glittering with gold,.and ribbons tied to
them all which seemed to bear the appearance of
some*great victory ; and when I*awoke I thought
I should hear of some; bat it was answered in the
following manner:
" Theft now the victory PI! expUuiT,
And’tell thee all the war I mean.
My servants shall like soldiers coroe;
The tree of LtPE shall be made known,
Ih golden colours to appear;
The ribbons shew the victory there.
So on thy bed wilt thou lie down ;—
The day at last for me is found.
That Tan earthly judgment meet:
This awful day must finish it.
But how, thou'It cry, can I appear,
Though in my heart I wish'd it near ?
But now the awful day is come,
That in my heart I wish'd for lo n g ."
So much Uke Peter thouwilt stand,
Though boldly launch'd by my command, k
To warn the jury to appear;
Btti then thy faith withsink in fear :
Oisave me,. Lord, will be thy cry
Can such a simple worm*as.I
Before such learned men appear ?
I sink ! I sink! will be thy fear s
But when these fears do thee alarm,
LikeTeter, thou shait find my arm; '
And in the galleries thou shait see
The .glorious victories wrought by m e .
The soldiers are the men of God ;
The glittering sword, the Spirit's word ;
In golden colours shall appear
The tree of life, that day ill clear,
And every sign Fu then make good,
I bought your ransom on the wood.
" So let the judge and jury come;
The tree of life shall be made known
Ift golden colours to appear;
And all shall find'my Spirit near#
Digitized by G oogle
That is descended like a dove ;
And all 1*11 (ill wkh heavenly loye;
And then the water.s PI1 abate,:
When I return your loving mate,
To bring the ofive-branch of peace,
And ms&e your jarring discord cease. ’
For sure a Thomas will be found, ’ *
That’sjealous of the heavenly sound;
And if in doubts he doth appear, '
My hands and side lit shew him there;
For then the, mysteries I’ll explain;
Because I know they are but men ;
And you shall know wh»t days are cottie,
And find me in the woman’s form, A
To make your perfect Wisp complete;' *
And you shall find your helpmate’s great.
For this was first my Father’s will,
And it you’ll find I shall fulfil; ;
And then my Father you’ll notblame,
When I the serpent put to shame. *
I took my trial first from man, -
And so the serpent next mustcome * *
To stand the trial just like me.
If you look deep iVe honour’d he,
-As ne in heaven did aflject the king;
Then 96his trial now I’ll bring;
And he must surely fall by man,
Then all shall see the heavenly plan,
: ** So let the glittering swords appear ;
My shepherds must roy armour bear, ,
Aud come like soldiers ip the fight,
Apd then I’ll make them men of might,
And every victory they shall gain;
The heavenly war they must maintain.
$o hens these dreams they do go deep;
My shepherds must not careless sleep,
To say “ We now do see it clear ;
M What need have we for to appear,
-" To bring these mysteries to our view ?
* It is of God, we well do know;
“ For all’s beyond a woman’s head,
rr Did not the Lord her spirit lead.”
But here, my friends, is your mistake j
Out of the sleep you must awake;
Whilst othersjudge it but a dream,
You must awake, and see it plain,
That you as stars may rise and shiney
To lighten the benighted minds, v
;
Digitized by G oogle
That they may wake out of their dream,
When you can prove you have seen it plain.
Besides, some mysteries are behind,
Until thatday you cannot find,
Till I unbolt the perfect door,
What I have got forman in store.
So let not faith to keep you back,
Nor unbelief to climb the rocfc,
Because you fear that you may fall;
Tour anchor’s fix’d ; I’ll keep you all.
“ So now I’ve ended with thy dreamy
And now from visions I’ll explain,
And prove my prophet Joel true.
And bring the vision toyour view.
The vision first was seen by man,
Just like my bible ell'sthe plan,
That in the heavens to him appear'd;
But he the mystery could not clear,
Nor yet no man could see it plain,
Nor shew the vision what it meant;
Till it came to the woman’shand,
I had conceal’d it all from man;
To the prophet’s words more clear— •
The prophet was the woman here.
So now the vision [’ll explain,
And shew it with the former dream.”
After I had written out the dreams shewn me in
1792 and 1794, I received a letter from a worthy
minister in London, with an open vision he saw in
the heavens, as hewas readingtheburialserviceover
the dead. He sent mea.representatjon ofthe vision,
neatly engraved. I must beg the worthy gentle­
man’s pardon for putting it in print without his ap­
probation ; hut I trust a gentleman of his good
sense and learning wifi forgive me, wheu I tell him,
the Lord hath commanded me; and I had not time
to write for his consent. So I shall insert the visi­
on perfectly as he sent the words to me, and after
give the explanation, as it was explained to me. I
shall conceal the reverend gentleman’s name.
Description o fan OPEN VISION.— “ There ap­
peared in the heavens an ill formed beast, standing
168
Digitized by G oogle
on the continent, and afterwards inarching upright
at the head of an immense army, issuing out of a
cloud; the beast stretched out nis fore paws, as if
swimming, much agitated, and pointing to some­
thing at a distance. All marched gently but boldly
on, and appeared to cross the sea, nfaking for an
island, which they invaded in a very short space of
time. The sea then assumed the appearance of a
barren heath, and every thing seemedto have fallen
before them.
“ The beast having arrived in the middle of the
island, put on the form aud colour 6f aleopard; and
lay down, as if to take his rest, when the army dis­
appeared, and all things about him wore a most
beautiful appearance, like fertile land, when the sun
is rising upon it; and immediately (the leopard
keeping his position) a small cloud arose from the
middle of the space, and moved gently to the side,
followed by a buffalo and a crocodile; both which,
as they drew near the cloud, were invested with its
shape, and lost their own.
“ The Vision N. N.£. Time about four minutes.
“ The above Vision was also seen, and particu­
larly noticed by E. Wynne, schoolmaster, of St.
Mary Hill, on his road to Wapping, in the com­
pany of several gentlemen. The above £. W. no­
ticed, that the beast, when it was lain down, mo­
mentarily panted, as if at its last gasp. T. W. the
publisher, had, at this period of the vision, taken
off his eyes for a few seconds.
“ The army and the beast, as represented at the
head, appeared to be about six feet high, and the
quadrupeds bore an exact natural proportion.”
I shall now come to the explanation of the vi­
sion. As the men are drawn in a bow in the cloud,
pursuing the beast, it is explained in the following
ipanner.
169
Digitized by G oogle
, *
/When the world was dfov^ned,^the beast hgd so
powerfully worked'on man, tilt he ^ad drawn at!
pien after him, and the deluge of rain qiade the
Uforld becomgdike the sqa. A t that time the Lord
said he would destroy man, from the fece of the
earth ; but man, that was made ofThe dusjt of the
ground; andcreated in paradise, was not destroyed;
the Lord preserved mpre in the ark than bucr<?kted
at first. But.after the deluge ceased," theLprd"$alil
he would no more suffer the waters to drqwil the
world i apd,, as,a sjgp unto men. he set thelfO'K *d
\he cloud’s.'" theWophet 3pd he kalth, when he
comefh to pqur put pis Spirit upon all flesh, “Your
young men shall see'visions, apa yopr women shall
prophesy; and yc shall see signs in the he^Venst*
And ip tbe Relation it is written, ’‘They shall
overcome the beast, that is the devil, by.'^&bidpd
o f the Lamb, and. the word of their tei^tncplYi
therefore, rejoice, ye heavens^ apd aft t^rd^eSj
ip them ; but Woe to the inhabitants oftltt
sea; for the devil is come down in greJt Wtath’J
cause he knQweth he hath hut a short thpei”"J^oW
I have shewed you, from the Written Wpfdj^tjpd,
how all is spoken on the record of the Btbfe^ Thp
how was placed as a sign of preservation^t.ifcaiv;
and the Revelation $hews you how to oveveonieThe
f
owers o f darkness by the power pf Ch/ist.1 Now
have shewed you, from the Bible, how all was spo­
ken ; and now, from this vision,- you see how all is
placed. The bow, that was set in the clouds for
tnan’s preservation, is now drawn with an army o f
men pursuing the beast; at the end of the vision the
beast lay" down, much agitated, as if to take his last
repose. Now let men know, the men who were
in the clouds, are men on the earth, who, by faith
in the blood of Christ, will pursue the b$ast, and
overcome him by their words and testimony, o f the
truth. The leopard denotes men, that Satan will
1*0
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
draw to join with'him. The crocodile denotes all
the arts of the devil'; asthe crocodile makes anoise
to get men to come near him, and then devours
them, and sp does the devil: hut now the croco­
dile hath no power to approach man, if he be ad­
vised of his arts, and, shun him; neither, hath the
devil power to draw in man, or hurt luro, if he be
aware of his wiles, and shun him. But this vision
shews you, what arts Satan uses to betray man; for
Satan is now much agitated, and so he wilt conti-
tinue. , He has arts, like the crocodile—
" And like the ravenous beasts bell now assume.
And like the crocodile with arts he’ll come;
But men will conquer by the heavenly train.;
And know, the rainbow was a typeJbr men,
That at the last preserved they shall be;
The beast I’ll conquer, andthe men I'll free;
And at his last gasp he is surely come;
And the whole armour you. may now put om
Deep is the vision must to all appear—
Rejoice, ye Jews; and let the Turks to fear;
For in that nation 1 shall end the war.
The barren heath in Turkey doth appear ;
Their minds are barren ; all is barren there.
And yet thcu’rt puzzled, how these things can be: *
The beast arriv’d the fertile land to see,
And all my army they did disappear.
This is a mystery thou canst never clear;
But now the mystery I will here unfold.
And prove the truth is by a woman told;
But by thy wisdom, as a woman, here
No more than man canst thou the mystery clear.
To see the beast possess the promis’d land.
And all my army silent for to stand,
Or at that very time to disappear;
It is a mystery that no man clear,
i But now, I tell thee, I will clear the whole;
And know, my army they went on so bold,
And did pursue unto the promis’d land,
That for the Jews I surely shall command ;
J&utas the beast alone he did see there,
In his possession you may now see dear,
That certainly it was the heathen land
That now the beast lias got in ftiU command.
K
7vl[
Digitized by G oogle
And now I tell thee that thy pen goes deep—-
And with the beast they all together sleep;
But I shall soon awake them from their dream,
And then the vision you shall all see plain.
Now if men judge it of some curious head,
To see the vision, as they simply said;
Then SolomonIn wisdom must appear,
To shew the vision with the Bible clear.
Wise fools, I tell you, here the moon does shine,
If you will prove these writings not divine:
From Satan’s wisdom you must draw your light,
To shine"in darkness, and you may shine bright,
T o bring forth reasons you cannot make clear,
When once the Sun of Righteousness ris’lh here;
Then all your light will vanish soon away,
When I do bring to man the perfect day.
W2
“ Mark all these dreams and visions seen before;
And from each other all concealed were.
Till I command the truth to fly abroad,
And then the vision must to all lie know’d;
For, like the vision 1 shall now go on,
And fix my army in the sons of men.
' So now together you may all compare,
And judge what senses are deranged here,
To hiring such wondrous things before your sight,
In such a form, and every path is straight: .
Unless I tell ye, you are all sun-blind,
And at the noon-day you the walls can’t find;
Then sure like bears you may begin to roar,
And mourn like doves your blindness to deplore;
In places desolate you’ll surely be,
And soon like dead men will your folly see:
. For now you’ll find will come the midnight hour,
When all mankind will feel the Bridegroom’s power;
And you, whose lamps are ready now prepar’d,
The midnight hour will bring your full reward.;
For with the Bridegroom you may enter in ;
That is, my kingdom you shall surely win;
And you will find a glorious midnight hour
To meet the Bridegroom ; and yotrll feel my power,
To shut you in secure from every foe:
Your names are written, and your names I know.
But when the foolish virgins do appear,
Who mock’d the warning of the Bridegroom here,
I tell you plain what then will be your fate;
Like foolish virgins you will come too late ;
Because your names, I say, I do not know ;
You mock’d the warning,' and despis’d the blow,
Digitized by G oogle
That I pronounc'd against the mockers here j
And now the midnight hour to them appears,
That back on mockers must my fury fall.
So now take care, I warn you, one and all;
The midnight hour for all is nigh at hand,
That on your head the prophet’s blood must stand.
As they asunder did Isaiah saw:
And now observe the Gospel and the L aw ;
And Jeremiah in the dungeon cast,
And now the midnight hour for all shall burst;
For now asunder I shall saw the whole.
And back on mockers shall my fury fall.
“ So here’s my warning in the date that’s new ;
The day* I’ll shorten; and like man I’ll do •
*
As men asunder did Isaiah saw.
So now asunder you shall see my law ;
Unto the one my promises are great;
Unto the other— they shall meet his fate,
And Jeremiah in the dungeon cast;
And now the dungeon must for mockers burst.
Look to the blood the Romans they did spill,
And how the martyrs did their fury feel;
Back on their heads you see I brought the blow.
And now the midnight hour you all shall know.
As ’twas by mockers I was crucified,
And ’twas by mockers my disciples died;
And will ye say my Gospel you do know ?
Then on your heads you’re bringing now the blow;
For Abers blood must unto men appear;
The day of vengeance now is coming here,
That all their blood must now on mooters fall.
Now from that woman I do tell you.all,
Who say your Bibles you do now see clear,
And yet despise the warnings I give here;
Just like the blind roy Bible you do see—
Write out her words, and then I’ll answer thee.”
These words were in answer to a proud, ignorant
woman, who came into a house where I was; and,
speaking of the prophecies, said, “ She did not
want any one to tell her better than she kqew; for
the Bible was plain; and all our Saviour’s words
were true; and wars and rumours of wars, and the
Revelation, were all fulfilled. She had read them,
and understood them all; and the day of judg­
ment was at hand.” I shewed her the open vision,
173
Digitized by LjOOQle
seen by the 'clergyman. SheaSkctf, <
utf It was
not the gehtletnan’s imagination?” Tsaid, No ; he
must have ^
h
u
a
c
i -more wisdom .than Solomon, to
imagine such-afilling, -to 'drew «o'lively:a picture
of the’liisf days; so consistent with all the Bible.
But I found the woman, with all her boasted wis­
dom, had no idea at all of the'last'days. Bite was
ignorant and opinionated in her own knowledge;
so I left off disputing with her; for I ‘found her
so wise in her own eyes, that there was more hopes
of a fool ;than of her. Her ’folly was answered
me in the following manner.
“ Thy observation wasjust. There is more’hopes
of a fool than of>such, who think.they knowevery
thing, and know nothing. :If she knew my-Bible,
she must know all these things that'thou hast writ­
ten ; and the vision shewed her must first come to
pass. And he1that is not with m e is.again&t m e ;
and he that gatherethmot with me, scattereth ; for
now is coming the end. The day ofjudgment for
man is already come; and this new century I shall
begin for men-to sit in judgment, tojudgethe wo­
man and her writings; and all will findsuch a trial,
as has never happened, since my being judged at
Pilate’s bar.
*74
" T o ra ll will find the trial great;
For different passions this will heat,
. When men tn judgment do appear,
For to condemn, or for to clear.
As different passions will arise,
S6me men of learning will chastise,
T o 1
prove their judgments not betrayal,
i And cast it on the woman’s head,
, That some mad fancy fill’d her brain—
" ‘We judg’d it wrong for to contend
* With one we thought so very low ;
" Therefore her folly we let co,
" Thinking her folly it would die;
“ But now we see ’tis rising high;
“ And now our wisdom we may blame,
" if we can’t put her now to shame.
Digitized byV O O Q l e
C
f If ,tis from 1&od%e Spifitcdrtie; J ■
c
<ftlrt'tb (his We will ndt-submit, ' ;
** Until we see ftie thith mbrfe great.**
Whife 6ther1
men Will see mote dean*— ~
“ It is bf ^Gbd,Tnbw do fcfefr; *
“ And if it be so, I must submit,
1
' kiiii ca^t rtiy wisdom at Ills feet.” .
While there are some vvill See ft JsIam—
“ Itis from God, I'll now maintain*:* '-
And stfdhg the tea5brts‘ihby*ll assign, ?
To prove the writings *afl dWinfe";
W h ile some are blind art'd Cahribt sfee '
T hey’re spbken' by divinity—
“ It surely Was some CUtiods head
SuCh different tehgUes together said,
“ For Hebrew, Greek, and Latin’s here,
9
9To see hi English nb'wTo clear/' \
So different are'the Ways bf men; _
An*Hb' 1 kiy'ttdy "WilFContend, . ; ‘
"Until ih'ey oringlHe Standard near; ‘ ;i
And then the mysteries I shall clear; k
Fcrr (hen the w o m a n a d Will free, :
And of1
the earth j adges must1be, ' r
w So here's the judgment-ddy fbr man,
T o free the Wdw a v , br condemn, ,
For*saying I dm in lifer form, * :
A rid* prove the fulness nbtv is etttrte: v
,
And wtz they V e crucified afresh, *
According d sih e Sbriptiire Says; '
Because the ^Spirit It is k e * 1
T hat they did persecute* in thee. .
'Tis ri6t Thy conduct' they db blatrte ; G
U pright and just they all do oWn, ..
A nd irtflhy principles &re good ;
Then to thfe Sp irit they allude, '
W herein thy Conduct they do blame;
And so you pat*your Lbrd to Shame.
But as by Tgnbrance (his is dbfie, ‘ *
I shall forgive arid Witik at men, .
If nbw their lovednd courage rise, -
T o justify, or to
*tJhakliSe,
And bririg the Woman's trial bri;
Then sure‘the serpehtV ridxt must Cottle;
For I shall foilbW rifext to thfee,
U ntil {'vb set the natioiis frfee. *
I firstW asJddg'd at ^iihte^stfar, ^ *
A nd nextrihe \V6man must appear, *
•
Digitized by G oogle
And then the serpent next must come
To take his trial just like them;
And this you'll find will prove th'event?
Then judge how near i< my intent
To bntig my glorious kingdom down,
And le t the t r e e of l i f e be found.
But here's the judgment-day on earth.
To judge of what the woman sailh.
Now in the earth there's nothing new;
But here’s a wonder to your view.
That m the earth was never seen
Since earth's foundations were first lain,
To take my Bible and explain,
As ne’er was understood by men;
And gave the following challenge here.
That every mystery she will clear;
When to the purpose all will come,
To justify, or to condemn, *
Then she will make the mystery dear,
And prove the t r e e of k n o w l e d g e here
That by her faith she reach’d so high,
And the good fruit she brought so nigh^
Whereof she bade you now to taste—
The bad is fallen, the good is plac’d,
Which now hangs hovering on the tree.
And all shall find 'tis pluck’d by she,
_So, M en man, camt ascertain
What madness now hath fill’d thy brain,
To judge that e'er a woman's hand
Could give such challenge unto man?
No, no: In man I’d soon appear,
For to confound and shame her here,
Did not the challenge come from me ;
You are but men, you all shall see,
Whom I've pronounced to be dead, >
.
As you the woman first obey'd j
But if your life you'll now regain,
I tell you all to do the same,
And now obey the woman's hand.
And paradise vou may command.^
If you can juage the heavenly sound,
Such woman ne’er on earth was found,
To give such challenge unto man,
And say, that I am in her form;
And if you come to see it dear,
Then in her form I will appear,
And you may judge it by her hand,
J*hat never can be read by man,
17$
Digitized by G oogle
\
That is, to make all mysteries clear:
And so you*il iind my Bible here,
That you no more do understand,
Than you can read the womans hand.
There are some things you can read plain,
And so my Bible is to men ;
So perfect like the woman’s hand
You’ll find my Bible all doe* stand, * <
:
That in the woman I’ll make good,
*And so I’ll prove it by her word:
But in the heavens I’d cease to be,
Than let a woman act like she,
If I did not command it here,
And fully spoke as doth appear;
Whatever nonsense to your view,
I said like man I’d surely do;
And nonsense doth in man appear:
. And I shall make the mystery dear,
And then my foolishness you’ll see
Is wiser than you mortals be*
To try th$ talents high of men,
Here every tongue you may explain,
Hebrew, Greek, and Latin too,
And every tongue bring to your view ;
Here France and Spain, and different coasts,
And English language is not lost.
. So all these tongues together weigh,
Then speak the truth, or prove the lie;
For I will 9hew you every tongue
That can be spoke or taught by men.
When you your reasons strong assign.
I’ll answer men that speak divine;
But for the fools, I’ll answer here
Iruwords that they can never clear.
,$o write the words were spoke by man,
And then I’ll answer thee again/*
^ These words following were spoken by a man,
who came into the house, and, reading my books,
said, “ It was a parcel ofjumbled nonsense:” I was
desired to come and answer for myselfj butknow­
ing the man was ignorant, obstinate, and opiniona­
ted in his own wisdom, judging himself one of the
elect number, and that all others were lost; I knew
it was fruitless to contend with him, and .therefore
kept silent, till he disputed ourSaviour’s never put-
c
177
Digitized by G oogle
ting off the godhead, and putting on die manhood.
I then went out, and asked him, if our Saviour did
come down from heaven a perfect God as he was
there ? If he did not take man’s nature upon him,
born as man, labour as man, act as man ? Ifhe was
not perfect God, and perfect man ? The man re*
plied, he was not; neither did he put off the god­
head, to put on the manhood. Some one coming
in, put a stop to our discourse. His saying it was
nonsense was answered in the latter part of the
words spoken in verse; and now 1 shall answer
the other, as it was answered to me.
K
" Poor, simple man ! what, did I then appear
Invested in the godhead perfect here ?
Remember how mount Sion it did smoke,
When unto Moses in the bush I spoke;
Israel did tremble, nor nay face could see,
And Moses* countenance was chang’d b y m e .
So earth must tremble had 1 then come down
With all the godhead in the heavenly,form ;
For in the godhead I could not appear,
T o bear the mock of fools and sinners here;
For all must stagger and fell to the ground,
As they did once when I was in the sound ;
But then the godhead I did quickly change,
And took the manhood, which to you is strange-,
That very God and very m a n could be— s
Were not the angels sent to comfort m e ?
What need I comfort in the godhead’s form,
Invested in all his power, if all was on ?
Or to my Father had I need to pray
To let the fatal cup to pass away, '
If ’twas his will to have it to he done,
And drops of blood in agonies to come i
Or on the crosswhat need had I to cry,
My God, my God, hast thou forsakfen me ?
Then all the prophets surely must speak wrong*
If in the godhead I to mortals come,' j f
Invested m the heavenly Trinity,
To dwell with man •, O how could this agree t
Or yet what judge could I e’er be fat man,
I f all their form I had not yet put cm?
And all their nature I did then assume,
And all my answer did from the Father come;
178
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
For all the godhead I had laid aside.
And all man's strength and nature then I tried,
And found the arts of Satan how they swell;
And deeper mysteries I to man shall telL
Ifod he not fell in Eden then &tfirst, ,
I am their Judge, and know he would at but*
The kingdoms of the earth were offer'd m e;
And unto men the kingdoms, they would see,
Would soon be offer'd, as the full reward
To worship him, and not their God regard ;
And by his influence he'd men throw away 5
Then all must perish in the judgment-day,
Had not my wisdom «o ordain’d my plan,
To cast the serpent and to screen the Wa it ,
That to perfection he’s pronounced dead;
And bring his murder on the tempter's head,
That by the woman at that time was cast:
And now's the time I’ll make the woman burst
To claim the promise 9he had got of mb.
When Mordecai and Esther do agree,
That when men do like Mordecai appear,
And pray for Esther she may persevere;
Then all the royal robes you may put on;
The glittering sceptre shall to all be known ;
Then Esther's banquet you with joy may see}
And on the gallows Haman he may be,
Or else the serpent in the room of man,
And so jp
r
O
u
dLucifer his end must come.
These lines I’ve spoke, the learned men fo try
If they can see the hidden mystery;
If not, the mystery I shall make more clear.—
The end is come; and let the dream appear.'1
*79
This is a dream sent me by a reverend gentle­
man from London; not from himself, but another
g
entleman, who has had many visitations from the
pirit of the Lord, told it to him in the following
manner:—
He thought he was in the temple of God, which
appeared to be unfinished, in a city; the inhabi­
tants whereof, when he asked the name of it, called
It New Jerusalem; that he stood on a high place
In it, and saw a man walking below, whom he
thought at first to resemble himself, who took up
a sword lying on the pavement, and brandished it
c £
Digitized by G o o g l e
several times, saying, The Stoord o f Gideon, and
then laid it down again.
This dream was sent me by an elderly divine ;
and the vision By a young clergyman. Now here
is the explanation of the dream—
" O f Gideon’s sword, and'brandish’d it shall be:
And now the mystery I shall shew to thee.
For Joel's words together all are come;
The dreams and visions have been seen by men; ’
And here's the woman that doth prophesy ;
Then judge my prophet, give him not the lie; * *
Or else now prove all this was done before,
And then I’ll prove my prophet he did err ;
Because my Spirit was not poured out
Upon all flesh; the Jews do surely doubt;
And heathen lands my Spirit do not feel;
But now the nations I shall surely heal.
u So all together you may now weigh deep,
And then you’ll And I’ll save my frighted sheep.
From Gideon’s sword, you are to understand,
.Mv sword is drawn to conquer every land.
O f times to brandish, I shall now explain:
The mutiny in France did first begin,
Where7men in anger brandish’d first the sword,
Destroy’d their powers, according to my word;
For at the end you know that Rome must shake,
When once the Revelations they do break,
That is, their prophecies ftw
rto come true;
And by their mil the truth you all may view.
If men of learning do but weigh it deep,
The sword was brandish’d, and the powers do wfeep.
Which made the sword to brandish ail abroad,
And evpfy nation feels the glittering sword;
If not already, it will so come on,
And every land will find my sword is drawn,
Till men I’ve conquer’d, and they all submit .
T o lay their jewels humbly at my feet;
That is, their faith to trust in me alone,
Then on the other must the sword come down.
For it I’U brandish in the enemy;
The powers of darkness shall my fury see—
For in the end I’ll plunge it in his heart,
And he like man shall feel the fatal dart;
' Tor that’s the way that I shall sheath the sword;
And then all flesh shall know the living Lord
180
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
Hath drawn the sword, and drawn it not in vain,
When they do see their deadly foe is slain;
And 1 shall make for men a glorious peace,
Their foe FHconauer, and their jarring cease.
So Gideon’s sword you find will end the war;
And those that lap the water now appear,
And all the rest may wait in peace to see 1
The sword of Gideon make alt nations free.
And now the fleece of wool Fll make it dry,
And wring, I say, the tears from every eye.
< ■
r< So here’s the perfect meaning of the dream;
Ye men of learning, judge, and now see plain, '
That first the dew was on die people cast i
And tears from thousands like the dew will burst ;
While all the lands were barren and seem’d dry,
Scanty of food hath been my children’s cry ;
But now the dew shall on the land appear,
Trust me, my children, and dry up your tears;
And judge no more came from a woman’s head,
But mars the fountain and the way it spread;
Then men of wisdom they may trace the hand,
And now the prophet Joel’s words command.
But if in doubts mankind do now appear,
With the beginning you may all compare:
The tyoman stands a wonder now to man;
And sure the woman’s senses must be gone,
If she in wonder does not gaze on all,
If now you’re blind and cannot judge your call.
If all together you do deeply weigh,
You must discern the dawning of the day,
That as an echo in the verse appear’d,
It is my Spirit echo’d in her ear;
For as in verse you have a different sound,
There is an echo in the words abound;
And so my Spirit it doth echo here—
The sound’s from heaven, and with the lines will bear;
When all together you do perfect weigh,
You must be blifid, if you don’t see the day
That is broke, the day-light it is come—
The Sun is risen in the Woman’s form ;
As in her form all this to you appears,
But judge my Bible, and you’ll find I’m here:
Though not m wisdom, yet l am in power,
Or men and devils would her soon devour,
/ If Uke a husband I did not protect,
To save the wife that he did so direct:
And if in debt she runs by his command,
You know the husband must the trial stand*
181
I
Digitized by G oogle
its
So now the trial I will stand for all 5
Bring forth the debts that on her head do fall.
And every debt that's forged in my name,
Then as ^ husband 1 will bear the blame;
And a$a husband I the debt will pay,
That you will clearly prove was forged by she;
But it is time her promise to demand*
While you can prove 'twas forged by her hand*
“ So now the godhead doth to you appear
In perfect manhood, you may all see clear;
Fop- as a man in reason I'll begin,
But as a God in power J'll make an end;
And as a man I brought in the new date*
Who out the seals, and sign'd their names to &
By my qommand aU this was surely donetv
But yet no power unto them ever game*
To testify the writings were from heaven;
And as man the words tp all were given.
So pought but manhood doth to man appear.
But now the godhead you shall all see clear ».
That as a God this year I'll surely end,
And man with man in thee I shall contend,
Till all my jewels will fall at my feet,
And say, thy wisdom, Lord, we must submit a
For by ouf wisdom, if we baffle here,
One word out of a thousand we can't dear.
To prove the writings from a woman's hand,
And see our Bibles, how it all doth stand.
In such a manner I shall bring it here.
Till like a God you'll say I do appear.
As sown in weakness all was done at first,
But rise in power when the seals you burst j
Forjudge, andjury, witnesses must come.
Look on thewoman, whom you did condemn.
When in a court of equity 'tis brought,
Produce your seals, and every name was wrote,
And then the mystety you will all see cleat*
I’ve chang'd the manhood and the godhead’* here.
In simple weakness all was done at first;
But now in power and wisdom all must burst.*-*-
“ To what perfection is our weakness come!
“ Such day as this was to us all unknown!
" And yet with joy we all may bless the day*
€
t That we pursued the woman to obey
“ The heavenly wonders— What do we new hear ?
“ W e see the shepherds must the sheep now d ear;
“ W e putour spftlsto what we did not know j
“ W e wrote our names, as she did commandus to*
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
m
“ A* fimpleshe^pwe simply all obey'd;
*€ And hpre the a>st is on the woman laid
' And then your .seals I bid you all to burst,
And then the serpent he may lick the dust;
For in the end his curse he’ll surely see,
That he is cast, and .man that 1 will free:
And then your names you may with joy behold,
I f I enrol them in a book of gold,
And on that book at last to put my seal, •
‘Then Satan’s arts no longer shall prevail*
So here by faith the harlot now is freed ;
I do not say they’re guilty of the deed; 1 .
Bet yet a whoring they do go from mb ;
- I tell thee plainly, deep’s the mystery/’
I received a letter from a clergyman, who dia-
putjed my saying, that die Holy Ghost w as never
seen, and it Was written he was seen descending
Uke d dooe. . His observation I grant to be true;
and, as many may stumble at it, as well as hirir,
I shall answer for it myself to the world at large.
I did not mean, that he was never seen in any
shape, or form ; for the Holy Ghost, or the Spirit
of the Lord, moved upon the waters ,* and in the
days of Pentecost, it is written, there appeared
cloven tongues like as of .fire, and it sat upon each o f
them, and they were altfilled with the Holv Ghost.
But will any one say, the Holy Ghost was in per­
son, as a man, divided in so many parts? The
Lord can infuse his Holy Spirit in any form or
power he pleases. But none of these arguments
prove, that the Holy Ghost was ever seen in form
or fashion, like a man, as our Saviour was upon the
earth, and as he appeared to his disciples after his
resurrection, or as the Lord appeared'to Moses on
Mount Sinai. So none of these reasons do convince
me the Spirit is wrong, that told me the Holy
Ghost is the Holy Spirit of God and Christ, whom
the Lord can send in any form or power. The
devil sent his spirit in the iform of a serpent $ but w e
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
cannot suppose he was bodily in that shape. T he
devil infused his spirit into the heart of Judas; but
we cannot suppose he assumed his full form, and
entered into him. Now, if we weigh these things
deeply, and call to our recollection the words of our
Saviour, the H oly G host teas the Com forter, whom
the Father would send in his name, to bring a ll
things to our remembrance ; it would shew us plainly,
that the Holy Ghost is the power of God’s Holy
Spirit. I f it was a person distinguished by himself,
you must say it is the greatest, in the Trinityj for
our dear Redeemer said whosoever speaketh against
the Jtbbf Ghost, shall never beforgiven, in 'this world
nor in that which is to come. Then if it wasapei>
eon in body, like the Father or the Soni, .separated
by himself, the greatest in theT rin ity, how should
the Father have power over it, to send it. to whom
he .pleased, how be1pleased, or in what foam, he
pleased, if it was not, as it was said to me, the Holy
Ghosf is'the Holy Spirit of God, whom he said in
.the last days he would pour out upon all flesh ?
The Holy Trinity was always a mystery to roe ; I
never dived into it, till it was explained to me, that
it was the Holy Spirit of God.
N ow I shalfanswer other disputants concerning
last May, as they expected to see some great thing
happen, not discerning how it was spoken. It was
spoke this year, but was not to appear till. next.
Y et few discerned what they read; and many began
to say, where is now the prophet ? or where is the
God in whom she trusted ? And my friends began
to grow jealous, before I shewed them thei^ error,
and asked them, how they could prove it true, if it
had come this year, when it was written it should
not ?. or what mysteries were to be explained an­
other time ? or how it could be written, it re­
quired learning to discern how it was spoken ? or
184
Digitized by G oogle
to w they should reflect in May, what they said in
M ay ? or how they could agree together to con­
demn the prophecies, if all had come clear to their
judgments? .This I have explained to the public,
that they may weigh prophecies deeply j and then
they will see the truth of every word. The Lord
does not speak plain to men’s judgment; for his
straight paths often appear crooked to man ; and
he makes things that were not, as though they
w ere; and though the words had not been spoken.
by man at the time I penned them, yet they were
spoken to me, as judge of that prophecy, when the
ten years are up.
But now I shall beg to answer for myself in one
particular. A s many ignorant people have said, I
had published for the lucre or gain $ and though
they despised prophecies, and judged they-knew
enough o f the Bible, without the revelation o f the
Spirit of the Lord ; yet if they could get money by
it, they should be glad to do it. To such I answer,
that their minds must be worldly, selfish, and de-
▼ elish; not caring bow they dishonour God, cheat
man, ;and rob the public, nor what a hell they get
at last, so they have a present reward for the mo­
ment ; and but for a moment would such arts last;
divine vengeance would soon overtake them. T o
rob God of his honour, and forge things in his
name, that they had no grounds to believe ,came
from him, but merely to. impose on the public;
such people, with all their boasted wisdom of re­
ligion, know no more than the wild Indians, the
Pagans, Turks, or Infidels. I f they knew anything
of religion, they must know they were kindling
the wrath of God, the malice of hell, and their
names must be had in everlasting reproach amongst
mankind. This ignorance I have found in boasters
o f religion in a Christian land; and they judge me
another such as themselves.
I shall now answer for myself. The thought of
185
Digitized by G oogle
gain was' never in my view, and what I thought I
was commanded of the Lord, I obeyed; but so far
from any gains at present, I now stand one hurt-
dre# pounds worse than I should, had I never took
pen ip, hand, and I can prove it to the world. Then
where are my gains ? What I have laid out, is for
the Lord, in my judgment; and if. it prove so in
the epd, be assured, the Lord will reward me dou­
ble fold. Then you may say, you wish the Lord
had visited you instead, of me/ But remember;
you despised the visitation of the L o rd ; and said,
yon knew enough of yourselves,; without regard­
ing what the Lord should say, or what he hath
spoken concerning us. .:; i
; And, that the public may be further satisfied I do
not write for gain, I shall: make this remark, that it
is well known to all my acquaintance, that I can
maintain myself by my trade, >as decently as any
woman.of my line.of life would wish to live; and
should have placed myself in business years since,
had I not been ordered to leave all, to follow on to
know the Lord, and then I assuredly should know
him. So I have done a& the merchants do, ran aU
at a venture; and I have done as Peter did,
launched into the great deep,
., And boisterous waves have swelled high.
And oft I've felt a Peter's cry 5
But though I've launch'd into the storm*
I hope to meet my Saviour's arm*
Who oft has Marfd my unbelief
When I, like Peter* sunk in grief*
But now what dangers shall I fear*
If on the seas my Lord is near?
Then he will keep me in his arms*
Though men and devils raise the storms.
I have given my answer to that part of the world
who have said, I print for gain; and now I shall
give the answer of the Spirit to these words.
** Now let these boasting fools appear*
T o write or act as thou, hast here;
Then they must have an arm like me*
And so confound the Trinity.
1S6
.1
Digitized by G oogle
But they wish, and wish in yain^ . ^
A hand like thine they’ll never gain ; *
Because their pride, I well do know,
Would swell too high if it was so;
The prophet Balaam they’d become :
For Balak’s gold they all would long.
Then how such heart could I obtain.
The heavenly victory for to gain ?
The oath that ! did swear to thee
Could never gain the victory;
For gold they’d ask as their reward,
And earthly grandeur their regard.
Then all my plan must be in vain,
To act like man in Herod’sreign,
When to the damsel he did swear,
Whate’er she ask’d he’d gran} her there,
Unto the half of all his crown,
Because his kingdom so is found.
So now the same I offer’d thee,
One-half, like roan, ^
’11give to thee.
So hear together both the sound;
Let men or devils this confound:
The damsel’s malice did appear
So influenc’d by her mother there,
That envy swell’d her wretched breast,
For my disciple she did thirst,
And every grandeur threw aside,
Revenge was all her haughty pride;
If she could have the Prophet’s head,
All other grandeurs might be dead.
And now to thee ’twas just the same,
When powerfully the Spirit came,
To tell the oath that 1 had made,
And half my kingdom offered,
Revenge was all that swell’d thy breast,
And pray’d that Satan might be cast,
As John the Baptist was before— ,
And now the mystery all see clear:
For in a charger this was done—
And now this charge I give to man,
To give the damsel up her will,
And then my oath I will fulfil.
And now her will you may demand.
And on her head like stars now stand;
Then you shall see the glittering $rown.
Beneath her feet the moon is frund,
That in the darkness giveih light.
And in the day bs’th all his sight.
187
Digitized by G oogle
So here’s a m ystery deep for man,
I’ve shew n you all my heavenly p lan ;
A nd let my shepherd to appear,
T hat did inquire thy combat h e re :
H ow thou eould’st e ’er destroy the foe,
O r in what manner wish to know ;
I gave this answer from thy p e n :
T he combat must begin by m en ;
T he damsel ask’d, and men fulfill’d.
A n d now , ye learned, try your skill, '
A nd then I’ll speak in words more plain,
H ow with them both you must contend.
, So here’s the answer to the w o rld :
Had thy desire been for base gold,
Such promise I w ould never m ak e;
So now, ye fools, see your mistake.
You all m ay wish, and wish in vain,
H er hand and he^rt you’ll never g a in ;1
W h ile all your wishing,is for gold, "
Your hands and hearts doe$ Satan hold ;
A nd now his purse you may command,
I f you by arts can forge her hand ; *
But never let her hand appear,
Nor yet her name, I charge you here,
Unless herself she does command,
W h ile on this earth her life doth stand;
T o print her writings I forbid,
Unless by her ’tis so decreed.”
Now as I am pome to the conclusion of my fourth
book, I must beg liberty to answer for myself to
the public. Some say I hate written nonsense, which
they cannot understand ; while others say that my
writings ought to be burnt, as I am setting the
world at variance; the father against the son, and
the son against the father; so floods of oaths and
curses are poured out against me on the one hand,
and the greatest approbation o f my writings is
given me on the other, as being beyond the power
of human learning; and that none but the Spirit
o f God could indite such writings. Now as men say,
I ought to print Vrhat they could understand, I must
bring you to understand the 12th chapter of the
Revelation of St. John: The dragon mas-wroth with
the woman, and cast out Jloods o f water against
188
Digitized by G oogle
her s and so doth man against me. You are not to
suppose this dragon meant the devil, that, he could
do it of himself; n o ; it is in the heart of man,
he must do i t ; and in man it is already done. And
the earth helped the woman, and swallmoed up the .
fioods; and so the earth hath helped m e; ^nd I
have worthy friends, and malicious enemies. Let
both read the 12th chapter of the Revelation, and
conscience must bear them witness, “ W e are mak­
ing the truth of the prophecies, and pouring the
whole on our heads. But how is she travailing in
birth, and crying to be delivered ? may be your
inquiry. “ If we are making good the one, how will
you prove the other ?” I answer, I am still complain­
ing to be delivered; for till my writings are proved^
by the standard fixed for me, I shall never be
delivered, nor can the wound of my heart ever be
healed. For what I have already seen, is through
a glass darkly; but then 1 shall see face to face,
and know in whom I have believed, and my bur­
den will fall from me, and not before. So the same
Spirit that made the Revelation at first, hath
brought it round and placed it in such a manner
as to make that chapter plain and true, if men have
any understanding at all. I have many friends
and many foes; the world helpeth me, and per-
secuteth me: So man is the earth that was made of
the dust of the ground; and if one man opens his
mouth and casts out floods, another opens his
mouth and swalloweth them up, as you will see
when the truth is proved. So here is the noon-day
sun before you; and will you say, then we are sun-
blind, and cannot see it ?- I answer, the fault is
your’s, and not m ine; for I have made the crooked
path straight before you: and remember the days
of Noah and Lot, which are full as plain; but if
men will shut their eyes against the day-light, the
fault is not mine. Will men find fault with their
Bible's, because they cannot understand them ? The
189
Digitized by G oogle
ways of the Lord were always past men's finding
out, and his footsteps were hid in the great deep.
So let not men find fault with their Maker, because
they cannot find out his words nor wisdom. Who
is the man that can direct the Almighty ? or who
can find himout to perfection? Those that didjudge
my writings nonsense, I must be plain to tell them,
donot understand good sense. Did they come from
myself, I would not say one word to justify them;
I should blush to praise my own works; but know­
ing every truth in them, that they arefrom the Spirit
of the Living God; therefore I will take upon me
to say, they are ipoken in wisdom greater than ever
• was in man, and brought round in such a manner to
fulfil the Bible, that it is impossible for any Spirit'
to bring it so close to the Bible, that did not in the
first place inspire men to compose it; he that was
the author ofone, is now the finisher of both, whose
unerring wisdojn men have taken upon themin every
age of the world to find fault with. But I am ready
to stand the trial, and meet myjudges as they are
fixed for me, and my trust is in the God of my sal­
vation : in the fire he hath promised to be with me;
and the waters shall not drown me; but had I
learned the foolish nonsense of this world, then the
people of the world would have understood it; bul
as the natural man knoweth not the things of God,
for they are spiritually discerned : then let not men
judge of things theykqow nothing about, nor ex­
ercise. themselves in things too .high for them. I
have already told you my writings must be judged
by learned divines; and the sheep must be led by
the voice of the shepherds.
So now your charges you may load,
And let your shots to fly,
.You all will find I have a God,
And every armours nigh,
That will confound in every sound :
His armour I’ll put on,
And then he’ll shake the earthly ground,—
' 190
Dinitized by G oogle
191
I mean the hearts of men*
When they appear to see it dear,.
Confounded all will be,
• That did pretend to bafHe here,—
" W e cannot answer thee
One word of a thousand. It is the Lord’s doing,
and marvellous in our eyes.”
But now I shall answer those who say, I am set­
ting the world at variance. I am sorry to say, I
never remember the world in peace since I knew it;
for I may say, forty years have I been grieved with
a crooked and perverse generation, in a world where
I never saw any true happiness nor peacein my life.
And now I will call every man to bear me witness
from his own conscience, if perfect peace and true
happiness were ever in his dwelling for a long con­
tinuance at home; and what do we now see but tu­
mults abroad ? In these things men’s own conscien­
ces must condemn them. I never kindled the ha­
tred of the son against the father, nor of the father
against the son; but the son hath been opposite
to his father’s will ever since I knew the world.
Let men look into their own hearts and families;
and conscience must bear them witness to the
truth. So let no man say, when he is tempted, I
am tempted of God, when he is drawn away by his
own lust to do evil. But would men hearken to my
writings they would forsake the evil, and leam to
do good, and be flocking untoJesus Christ, as doves
unto windows, crying out, with the trembling
Gaoler, “ What shall we do to be saved— to inherit
'* the crown that is before us, looking for, and hast-
** ening to, the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ ?”
As a report prevails, that my writings are not of
myself, but extracts from other books; it is proper
for me to observe, I shallnot say what a hardened
wretch such judges must think me, were I capable,
of selecting from other men’s works, and, by giving
Digitized by G o o g l e
them a new dress, insinuate to the world they were
revealed to me by the Lord. But as 1 must stand
the trial, whether such books can be produced or
not, I now forbid every one from printing any of
my productions, unless employed by me; and I
hereby challenge the world, by asserting, there ne­
ver were such writings since the world was created,
as mine are. I have explained to you in this book
the nature of Christ’s second coming already in
the Spirit, according to the Scriptures. Now judge
for yourselves how long Christ remained upon
the earth before he expired on the cross, and
said it was finished, and recollect how many mira­
cles he had previously wrought.
Now if these books you can see clear,
- Yoil'll know the Spirit of Christ is here.
Or the greatest impostor ever known;
• Then judge what a trial for me is to come.
Therefore every Printer I hereby forbid.
No more than I publish, my name for to spread.
192
L O N D O N :
Printed by W. M arch ant. Ingram-Coart; and sold byW. To zir , Chapel-
Place, Duke-Street, Westminster-Road, Southwark; also by W. Symonds,
Gandy-Lane, and the Miss E vzleigiis, St. Sidwell’s, Exeter ; S. Hirst,
Leeds; W. W adman, York; Jamxs L ight, Corentry-Street, Stour­
bridge; E dmund B a s s e , Ilmioster; C. B radley, Digbeth, Birming­
hamf R. G oldsmith, Gravesend; and T .T u e p i n , Greenwich.
ENTERED AT STATIONERS' HALL.
£ Price O ne.Shilling.)
Digitized.
:d_by G oogle _ __
geeeaoe e e^ea6 <e» o e e e e ieeeafti!i^aM >#
b e tta a e e a a e a a e o e e e e a o e qpo e e e d o e e a e o&«»
TheStrange JEffects of JFaith ;
. WITH
REMARKABLE PROPHECIES,
MADE IN 1792, &C,
O f Things'*which are to come.
FIFTH PART. ; .
H
AVING published to the world such wondr&ufi.
prophecies, as many are at a loss to' give cte*>1
dit to, and others Judge it the disorder of a confu-,
sed brain,. I shall inform my reader^ that my head:
v
was so disordered from my youth up, and so Were'
the heads of my forefathers; theretoreyifthe world
judge, that a firm belief in the Lord, relying 6ri all1
the truths of the Bible^ coming bom men inspired’
by God, and the Words left on record by our bles-
sed Lord and*Saviour, is madness to believe, 1 was*
bora mad, and so- was my mother before me, as
they will see in the volume of this book, from the
short account I shall give of my life. «
From my early age, the fear of the Lord was
deeplyplaced on my m
ind and heart Readingthe
gospel of Christ, and all the persecution he went
HmWrtU nUi prrn
tcdinO
ctober..180)T
,
fcyW.Itethtt G
reriU
*Street, London,
frotitfBefirstAntiga,printedDec.1.1£
01,
Sfttered it M t e O '
. . - H n lL . 4
Digitized by (google
through, made rue lave bin*, and fear to offend himi
and I felt my heart burn with indignation against
his.accusers,; and that as t grew iu years I grew in
grate, and in the fear of tne Lord. I shall omit
particulars at present, and come to- some singular
circumstances that happened to my family, which
m&foibe bqlibveip my early agt\ that the Lord spakq
by areams and visions of tne night, and that the an­
gels of the Lord are minjaterii^ spirits, to administer
to the heirs of salvation.
I shall quote one instance that happened to my
father's brother, which convinced me the Lord was
round our beds, and in our paths, the same now as
hq was in ages past; to day, yesterday, and for ever
the same, as I shall infer From my father’s brother,
whq wasa,remarkably seligiousyoung map, from his
youth up,:, and when he was. desired to take more
pleasure in the world than be did, he made this,
reply, “ I canqot live as. others do ; this is no
“ world to pit* neither will my life he long in it ”
He was then,mate of a ship; and when he took leave
o f my father, he de?ired him to. live for a, better
world; and. said,. “ he hoped they should, meet in
“ g lm y h u t did. not, think they should ever meet
together again in this world.” fn. this manner he
took leave of ail his frifnds» and so bade them fare­
well. When lie was returning- home, he wrote a.
letter to his mother, signifying that he should go
in a ship hound for London, and leave the ship des­
tined for Topshaav; as.he intended,to go-4nd>ee his
father’s family*, hut my grandmother had been
warned of his death, in a dream ; and informed him
by letter that she had been troubled in dreams con­
cerning him, and that she should never rest con­
tented. until she had seen him. To oblige his mo-,
ther, he altered his mind, and sailed in the ship
194
Digitized by
bound for Topsham; the captain of which disco­
vering another ship many leagues before him, said
he would be in Topsham before het ; imdt in order
to effect which, he steered his ship a neater; course;
and she running on a rock was dashed to pieces;
all the crew, except one man, went to the bottom,
who saved himself on a broken plank, and was
picked up by another vessel pa&sing by j and who,
on his arrival at Topsham, related the circumstance
of the ship’s perishing, as above described. Here
was my uncle’s foreknowledge of his death, and my
grandmother’s dream, verified together. This sin­
gular instance, with many others, I never looked on
any other than a sure sign that the Lord was with
us as in ages past; but now it is explained to tae, that
those thingsIvhich have happened in our family, were
designed as warnings to the nations, that the end of
all things was at hand. I shall now give the expla­
nation, as communicated to me by the Spirit.
The btgvwwg i f Aefiret Ptr& k.
u Then now together I will show the whole—
It is my angels guard the naked tool %
And as the soul and body do unite,
Where I give faith, I always give a light.
So faith in him in eaidy age yet see;
Ilia faith and knowledge both did tome ffoih Utz ;
And as he said, in early age he d/d,
His mother’s dream was unto him apply’d,
To hive him hastily for to come home,
And in that way his death did surely dome.
But though this thing wasdone for seme yearn past
I mean to bring it to your land at last,
f .And with the Captain I shell first begin :
A ship before him thou hast said whs seen,
Which made the'Captain tarn a nearer way $
Then now, O England I hear what I do say-; *
Your ship against the rock you'll surely spill, ,
And ivKtheend youmelreS you’ll surely foil,
If you intend to turn another way
Than the straight path that doth before you hty;
Forjike k» knowledge, and die dream that's hw ,
In all thy writings you may this compare;
195
Digitized by G oogle
For as thedream and knowledge here ispenn’d
*
I tell you, England, this will be your end,
If ye Uke mad-men turn another way
Turn the straight path that doth before you lay#
So by your wisdom it is vain to plan,
I tell you plain the rock you’ll split upon,
And on the broken plank you may return,
If you intend a nearer way to come.
•But, as thou say’st thou dost not understand,
Nor in wbat manner this is to your land;
It is mens faith will turn a different way
Than the straight path that doth before them lay.
And to the bottom you that way will sink ;
You little know how near you’re on the brink.
To have thy faith and knowledge all come true.
Just like the Captain thousands now will do,
Who saw the ship so steady go before,
And by the straight line reach’d his native shore;
So if the straight path you do now go on,
Then to the native shore you’ll surely come ;
But if the straight path you do now forsake,
Your ship against the rocks you’ll surely break;
That is, your faith will split against the rock,
That now is fix’d ; your anchor you’ve forgot;
For sure the rock of ages now is come,
And now like mad-men some will split thereon;
Because they’ll think to turn another way.—
It is a mystery, I do,hear thee say,
How ho that shunn'd the rock came safely borne,
And he that turn’d thereto thou .say’st was drown’d
So here thou’rt puzzled, if the rock is me,
And he that came so close drowned should be.
Then here I tell thee now the lines go deep;
He saw no rock, nor ever thought of it;
But yet the straight path he did soon forsake,
And on the rock his ship in pieces brake,
So now the rock of Ages it is come,
And by men’s blindness they will split thereon}
They’ll cast no anchor, nor will judge him near,
And on that rock they’ll sink in deep despair.
Trifling's the shadow, but the substance deep,
And from the parable I mean to speak,
And to ordain’d it in thy family,
That in the end your nation they may soy,
That ’tis in vain for man to turn aside,
The frith is straight, the ocean now is wid&
And u you wish to reach your native sbor*p
Digiti;
See every land-mark that is plac'd before.
And then safe harbour you will surely gain.
Deep is this parable I give to man.
The one observ'd the land-mark set before.
With steady prudence reach'd his native shore;
The other turn'd, and had no mark at all,
And his own wisdom soon brought on his fall.
So by men's wisdom now they'll turn aside,
And think the world is as the ocean wide ;
But do not know my rock ip plac’d so near,
While those that do not see it will split there,
While those who see the land-mark how 'tis plac’d
Will reach the shore, and all the truth embrace,
But as thy uncle in the ship was found,
(That by the captain's madness he was drown'd)
He found the rock of Ages there to stand,
And by his faith possess'd a better land:
So if men's madness doth destroy the just,
1 tell you plain a better world will burst.
So now let men of learning weigh this deep,
I've shew'd you plainly how the end will break ;
For deep's the parable I've given here,
And in the end the truth you'll all see clear."
197
. Having ended with the explanation of my father’s
brother, I shall here add a singular instance of my
mother’s brother; who was, like the former, a re­
markably religious young man; and was so inti­
mately acquainted with the young Mr. Dagworthy,
that they were like brothers, and were always to-'
gether every opportunity they could spare. Their
conversation was of things divine j and their obser­
vations and reflections on the wondrous works of
Providence were deep, and deep were their writings. *
But the almost sudden death of the young Mr.
Dagworthy sunk deep in my uncle’s heart: as my
mother advised him in a letter that Mr. Dagworthy
was ill; but my uncle not judging him dangerous,
tarried to settle some affairs for his mother, and.
did not go to visit him till a week after: when, on
coming to the house, in hopes of finding his friend
Digitized by G oogle
better, he met his corpse at the door. This sudden
shock so took my uncle's heart, that whether it
was the death of Mr. Dagwortby, or the reflections
of his own mind and heart, because he had not gone
and seen him sooner, remained unknown to all his
friends; but the shock went deep, and a melancholy
preyed on his spirits; his sorrows seemed too great
to bear; and to fly from them, he one morning said
to his,mother, I will go out and see the ground,
while you get the breakfast. She waited with im­
patience his return till nine or ten, and then began
to fear his absence. She sent to seek him, but to
no purpose. All the family began to be alarmed,
but vain and fruitless was every search* They
tried all the ponds, and sent to all his friends; but
to no purpose ; none that knew him had seen him.
At length my grandmother gave herself up to
prayer, and she was warned in a dream, “ Thy bread
“ is cast upon the waters, and in a few days he 6hall
^
“ return again in peace.” The next day she opened
her Bible, and found nearly the same words; I think
in Isaiah. She made herself easy, .and ail her fa­
mily, by assuring them their brother John was
gone to sea; and though she did not hear from him
for more than a twelvemonth after, yet she did not
despair pf seeing him return in peace, which hap­
pened within two years after he went to sea, as she
had said, when he came home quite composed, to
the great joy pf all his friends.
These singular instances I look on as ,a sure -
sign that the Lord is with us as in ages past, to
warn us by dreams and visions of the night; and a
present health»m the time of trouble, if: we put
our whole trust in the God of our Salvation. But
now it is given me to understand, that these things
198
Digitized
dby G oogle
happened in my family for deep and weighty signs
to the nations, as it is explained in the following
manner.
The beginning of tie eecoxd Purebie.
" Now from thy mother's brother Fll explain,
And bring it closely to the sons of men.
Thy mother wamMhim of his friend so dear,
That he was ill, and wish’d him to appear.
Thy uncle drd not judge his death so nigh,
Nor thought his friend was then ordain'd to die,
Which made him to pursue his own affair,
And in a leisure hour he did appear;
But then his leisure hour proved too late :
He met his corpse, and saw his dying fate,
And then too late to take his last farewell,
Which made his heart in agonies to swell,
To meet the corpse of one he lov’d sp dear,
And of his sickness he was warn’d before:
Then self-reflection in his heart did bum—
Too late; cry’d he ; I wish I’d sooner come
To take my leave of one I lov’d so dear;
He never shew'd me such unkindness here.
And afll his former love he call’d to mind,
And in a dying hour he might And
Some consolation in' a dying friehd ;
Blit now, too late, he criedy I see his end.
So self-reflection sunk him in despair ;
A wounded heart and conscience who can bear ?
To fly from sorrows he went to the seas,
And judg’d the ocean wide might give him ease,
Which did his friends and mother much alarm.
And here’s the bread that you must all discern,,
Which I did warn his mother in a dream,
Ye men of learning Judge, and now see plain,
That, in that man there was the bread from heaven:
And if hi$ writings were unto you given,
You’d see his pondering heart and thoughts went deep.
He lbv’d his friend, who all my statutes kept,
And in his heart he lov*d his Lord the same.
But now Ml shew you how his folly came.
To spcL a madness as you see his cud,
*Twas unbelief concerning of his friend;
Because he did not judge his death so near,
And nOw> mV friends, I give this warning here $
You see youV sister in this woman stand,
Digitized by G oogle
To warn her brethren. I am near at hand,
AncTthat my Spirit rarely did descend,
Just as the hand of death was to his friend.
But if you say you will not now appear;
You do not judge my coming is so near;
Then like the former you will come too late,
And, like the corpse, you all will meet your fate;
For when the Bridegroom he is at the door,
It is too l&te to say I'm welcome there;
For if before you will not welcome me,
Just like the corpse my welcome, you shall see;
That is in silence, like a dying friend,
And so you'll find I tell you now your end.
If you in unbelief do linger here,
Just like the corpse my coming will appear;
For as the sickness in that man was found,
Just so my Spirit Is in every sound;
And as the hand of death was near his friend,
Just so you’ll find I surely shall descend;
And those that do not judge me now so near,
W ill find the corpse to meet me at the door ;
That is, my coming it will be the same.
Judge as you will, these shadows never came,
But by permission, as they came from me,
That in the end the substance all might see.
And now unto the purpose I shall come,
And bring the substance now unto your home:
And in thy mother I will place thee here,
And with the dying friend myself compare;
And with thy uncle I shall place the land.
Observe the histoiy now, and understand,
That as a sister to your land appear,
Thou’rt writing letters to thy brethren here,
To tell them plainly I did so descend,
And by thy hand I’m warning every friend,
That as the sickness in the man appear’d,
Just so Fm sick till I the whole have cleaiM;
Sick of men’s sufferings I am come of late ;
Sick of tbeir sins for to bring on their fate X
Sick of the folly I see in mankind;
Sick of the fever that ris’tb in thy mind,
As no physician seeks thy wound to cure;
I know thy burthen’s more than thou canst bear,
Did I not take from thee part of the load;
For by thy sorrows thou dost wound thy Lord.
So all together this dost sicken set,
Digitized by G oogle
5201
And with the’dying friend comper'd might be*
And so the warning I have given here;
But now the mystery Pll begin to clear:
I f that the warning now my friends dont take,
Just like the corpse my coming now will break,
And all my death I'll lay before your view $
For like the corpse 'twill be unto the JeW9 ;
For like thy uncle they have slighted mb,
And not believ’d that I for them did diej
But now I warn them all for to appear,
And then my corpse shall meet them at the door.
This is a mysteiy thou dost not understand.
How they will meet my corpse by my command;
For when the Jews I warn them to appear,
Perhaps they'll think some wounded friend is berai
Or some disorder, man may easy cure.
And say they’ll come and judge some friend is here;
For as thou call’st them, they*11judge ’tis a friend j
But then they’ll come my funeral to attend ;
That is, my death and sufferings they will see,
And b e co n v in c'd th a t it is P u rely m b
That now doth warn them of my sickness here,*
And like the corpse it will to them appear;
For all my death I’ll lay before their view—
My friends like beavers every truth will shew;
And then the hearts of many I shall wound,
And like thy uncle they shall hear the sound,"
And so dejected they will turn away,
And soon in grief they'll cross the raging sea,
To warn their friend of every truth they know,
'Tis plain I dy*d for them, the truth is so;
And so the bread is on the waters cast;
And like thy uncle now the Jews will burst;
Because my death will unto them appear,
And like thy uncle's dyingjrietid compete*
So of the Jews I’ve told thee now their end ;
Peep are the lines that in thy history's penn’d ;
Bnt to the Gentiles, if they backward come,
111 shew their end, as thou dost now go on*
So for the present I shall end it here—
Let Jews and Gentiles now begin to fear;
Lest th$y stand out too long in unbelief;
Then in the end they’ll find thy uncle's grief;
For if the Gentiles judge I'm not so nigh
As he did judge his friend, pronounc’d to die
Was hot so hasty, they'll fina their mistake,
Digitized by
And in tbe end their grief like "his will b reak s
“ We ne’er did tend him in hi? sickness hero,
“ Nor for his coming did we once prepare,
44 Bat like the corpse it all is to our view”—
A sudden shock will Jews and Gentiles ktiow9
That do not judge the coming of their Lord,
And how my Spirit has to you occurred—
Wide wandering through the world, not entertain'd.
And when in prison stones for bread you send.
And thus my Spirit is to roan apply’d—
My friend receiv’d : now the field is wide,
As in the Spirit I do now appear;
And in the Spirit 1 am wounded here,
To see my friend to suffer for my sake;
And in the end I’ve many friends will break
As much distress'd as did thy uncle here—
“ Conscience condemn’d us; how shall we appear,
44 As we stood out so long in unbelief ?
44 We see too late, which heighten’d all our grief,
44 To see the sorrows of our dying friend ;
“ Then how the funeral shall we now attend ?”
This is a,mystery conceal’d from all:
But mark, your sister gives you now the call,
That you will find is deep in every line;
And from this parable then you will find,
That deep’s the warning I have given to all.
Let Jews and Gentiles now observe tbe call;
Lest, like thy uncle, they do 6nd the end,
And come too lute to see a dying friend.
But on tbe wators now your bread is cast;
And like the waters many eyes will burst;
Because they know they did forsake my friends; -
Than how my funeral will they now attend l
Because my ifuneral I shall place in thee;
And in the end a mystery all will 9ee.
So here’s a parable goes deep, for all,
And in tbe next tbe sinners I shall call,
*Who like the atheists now do mock the Lord ;
His love nor anger they do not regard.
So Here's the second parable for man;
And. in the third the fatal die must come/*
Digitized by G oogle
SOS'
Here I shall proceed a little further, to shew my
readers how I was taught, froth my early a g e ; the
Lord is the same to-day, yesterday, and for ever,
as I was instructed from my mother, whose earnest
E
rayers were for her children, before they were
orn, that they might be like Samuel, to w ait on
the Lord, and like Timothy to seek him m their
youth. I heard her repeat these words concerning
m e : She said, “ she had great faith, great com*
fort, and great promises made to her in prayer for
me, before I was born, and ever since; and if I was
a wrestling Jacob, I should be a prevailing Israel.”
And I remember her saying these words, “ Joanna,
m y dear child ! mayest thou be a mother in Israel.”
These things I never understood further than that
they applied to my own salvation, an d T pondered
them deep in my heart.
I shall leave particulars and come to the death
o f a neighbour, who sunk deeply in my mind and
heart, before I was 15 years o f age. The man was.
a professed atheist. The nighty before he died, his
wife requested my mother would permit one o f her
daughters to stay up by h im ; and she sent me.
At midnight the room shook as though it had been
shaken by thunder. The dying man rose up in his
bed, and spake, with a voice most dreadful, ** there
is a great olack dog down in the window.” I went
to compose*him; but. the dying man replied with
more fury, “ you think I am light, but I am n ot;
I tell you the devil is there.” This shocked my
very heart and soul; the bed shook under him, ana
the man trembled with great fear. It is impossible
to pen what I felt. This, continued an hour, and
then all was hushed to silence. I do not remember,
in all this time, that he once called on the Lord to
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
Hare m ttdy upon him. This made a deep impres­
sion on my mind and heart, and made me fear sin
more than death. W eighty were my mother's words
to me concerning him.
. I shall leave other particulars, and come to m y
mother’s death, which happened a few years after.
The night before my mother died, I heard same-
tiling in her th roat.>I asked what was the matter ?
She answered, u M y dear child ! don’t you bear the
rattle is upon me ?” It shocked me to the heart.
I asked her if she was in any pain ? She answered,
“ ao m y dear ch ild !
u Jesus can make a dying bed
MAs sweet as downy pillows are,
" While on his breast I lay my head,
^ " And breathe my life out sweetly there.”
A t these words I was almost death-struck myself;
to think I should lose so good a parent I went
and called my sister ; and we both sat by her side
till m orning; when* thinking our mother was bet­
ter, We went down about our dairy work, and left a
neighbour to sit by her, not supposing her end was
so near. A t eight in the morning (about aw hour
after we left her) slje said to Mrs. V
en, her time
Was but short, and rejoiced in the hour o f death.
“ As to m y children, said she, I must leave them
to the Lord ; but tell Joanna to come up to me.” I
immediately obeyed her summons; but the doctor
having been there just before, and not conceiving
her death so nigh, my sister tarried to finish her
butter, and I went up alone. When I came, she
took me by the hand, and said, “ M y dear child !
stand here, and learn to d ie ; live in Christ, for to
die in him is great gain. W hat profit would all
204
Digitized by’G oogle
I
SOS
the world be td me now, if I had it to leave to you,
and I myself was lost? Yon are a maid o f lively
spirits and great courage; let your courage be
strong in the L ord ; cast all thy care 'on him, for
he careth for thee; commit all thy ways unto the
Lord,: as he will direct thy goings; and the blessing
o f God be with thee, my dear ch ild ! ” then fasten­
ing her dying hand in mine, she tried to utter more
w ords; and my father and sister entering the room
just as she had done addressing me, she endeavoured
to speak to them, but her voice failed her, and she
fell asleep in the Lord, with her dying hand closed
in mine. It is fruitless to pen what we a ll«
felt on
so sudden a change in my mother, as she had not
been long ill, and no one had reason to judge her
dissolution so near.
M y mother’s dying words so strongly impressed
my mind, that, reflecting on the different shapes I
had seen death, in the man, and in my mother, it
made me weary heaven with prayers, to have some
assurance; which were increased, till at length T
was powerfully questioned, “ W hat is thy petition,
and what is thy request ? ” I replied, Lord, thou
knowest; a new heart I was answered, “ A new
heart I will give thee, and a new spirit I will p u t
within thee; I will write my laws upon th y heart,
and I will put my Spirit in thy inner parts, so that
thou shalt have the Spirit o f God to bear witness
with thy spirit, that thou art a child o f God, whereby
thou shalt cry, Abba, Father, my Lord, and m y
G od.” A t these words my fears vanished; I began
to rejoice in the God o f my salvation, and began to
have a lively and strong faith in the Lord-; and
shortly after I was put to the trial o f my faith; as
I was inwardly told what would happen concerning
Digitized by G oogle
, m y father, which m y father thought madness in
me to believe; and asked me, if I thought tbo
Lord would work miracles, as he did for the chil­
dren o f Israel ? I said, the Lord was as well able
to do it now. as then ; while some put their trust in
chariots, ana others in horses, let Israeli trust in the
God o f tlieir salvation :
“ Through him the weak confound the strongs
44 And crush their haughty foes;
u And so thou quellv
st the heathen’s tongue,
44 That thee and thiue oppose.*’
M y father thought my faith presumptuous; but
when he saw the Lord had done perfectly as I had
related, before the week was at an end, he bursted
into tears, and said, “ Joanna, my dear child ! if I
had faith like unto thee, I could freely consent to be
burnt in the flames. As the spirit o f Elijah fell
upon Elisha, so has the spirit o f thy mother fell
upon thee. God hath revealed it unto thee ; thou
art taught o f God, and not o f man.” I shall for­
bear descending to particulars, and proceed to re­
late a singular circumstance that happened some
years after.
Having a desire to go abroad, I left my father’s
home, and got a situation in a gentleman’s family,
where my life was rendered miserable* by a wicked
footman, who finding his base aTts ineffectual, stu­
died nothing but revenge. I therefore thought it
dangerous to abide in the house. On a Sunday, as
I was in a field, bathed in tears, devout in prayers,
looking towards heaven, and earnestly supplicating
my deliverance, I repeated these words;
206
Digitized by G oogle
From this sad prison set ro
e free,,
And dangerous days to frame,
Lord ! thou wilt sure deliver roe,
And 1 shall praise thy name,
And holy men will join with me
Thy praises to proclaim.
A s soon as I had finished these lines, I was an­
swered, “ Thou shalt not spend another sabbath in
this house.” I went iu very cheerful, relying on
the words. The footman, who always followed me
as close as a shadow, complained o f my absence,
and 'said I was never in house like other servants.
I smiled at his malice, and observed to him, that
.1 hoped the next servant would please them better,
for I should leave them soon. I went up-staire ia
prayer to the Lord to direct me. This was on
Sunday evening. The Tuesday folk wing the house*
keeper came out in the daily where I was, and,
with tears flowing from her eyes, informed me that
there was a maid come in my place, and that I was
to go to-morrow, it being the gentleman’s custom
never to allow servants any warning. The reason
o f my being turned away was through the false in­
sinuations o f the footman ; who, finding all his vile
purposes baffled, persuaded my master I was grow ­
ing mad. About five years after, through the ex­
travagance o f this same footman and the rest o f the
servants, and partly by his own misconduct, the
same gentleman became a bankrupt, lost bis senses
thereby, and was sent to Bedlam, leaving behind
him a wife, not SO years o f age, and four small
children, to lament his misfortunes. I never heard
what became o f the footm an; but some o f the other
servants are now vagabonds. The housekeeper
was heard to exclaim, just after she had given me
notice to quit, “ M y God 1 what is my master
*07
Digitized by G oogle
about ? be has this day discharged the best servant
in his house.” M y readers will hereafter discover
my reasons for putting these incidents in print.
From m y last place, I repaired to a friend’s
house - at Fairmiie, a religious good, family, with
■ whom my mother had been acquainted, and tarried
with them two days. I had intended going to the
west o f Devon, to see my sister; but as I was pro­
ceeding towards Exeter, meditating and praying
that the Lord would direct me where to go, I was
instructed to go into Exeter, to ask for some cakes
at a huckster’s shop, and there I should be directed
where to go. I pursued my journey accordingly;
■ and when I came into Exeter 1 applied to a huck­
ster^ shop for some cakes. The mistress o f the
shop knew me, and asked if I was not Mr. South-
colt’s daughter o f Gittisham ? I said my name was
Southcott, but marvelled how she knew me, not hav­
in g the pleasure of knowing her. She said she knew
me by m y father and mother, as she had lived
housekeeper in a gentleman’s family, whose ground
joined my father’s. She requested me to sit, and
we entered, into- conversation. I asked if places
were plenty in Exeter ? She said she believed not;
she knew o f none; I then became sorrowful, medi­
tating to m yself hotr I should be deceived, as I never
was before, since my faith was so strong in the
Lord; As I was thus reflecting with myself, a
woman came into the shop, and the mistress asked
her i f she knew; o f any place? because if you do,
continued she, here is a woman, o f a creditable fa­
mily, whoseparents I well know to be worthy, good
people, in want o f a situation: . The woman made
for answer, that she was at a house last Tuesday,
the master and miftress of- Which inquired' o f her,
208
Di itized b
yG oogle
if she knew of a servant? I thought to myself,
that was the identical day on which I left ’Squire
■■ ■ *shouse. I enquired of her their characters.
She gave the master a very good one, and said there
was no man but him in the house. I thought to
myself, that was the place the Lord had prepared
for me; so I went ana offered, was accepted, went
there the week following, and remained in the fa­
mily near five years. But here I shall drop my
history for the present, as it would be a field too
large to enter into the mysteries of my being sent
into that house. But what ye know not now, ye
will*know hereafter.
I shall now come to the explanation of the death
of the atheist, and the death of my mother.; for
these things were shewed to me, to convince man­
kind hereafter, that those who will not believe that
there is a God in this life, will most assuredly find
a devil in their death, as he did.
499
The Beginning »f the 3d Parable*
4
4 Then now the third doth unto thee appear,—
Thy neighbour's death so shocking in thy ear.
He liv'd a stranger to m s all his days;
He judg'd no God, nor thought upon, his wap*.
Thou say's* an atheist he spent all his life;
And like the husband was, thou know’st, the wife
For so-they liv’d, and so they perfect dy'd;
At last in agonies the husband cry'd*
• When on his*death-bed, and his hour drew nekr,
It was my wisdom for to have thee there;
For well f knew the days were nigh at hand,
That all these shadows must come in your land; !
For as the types of evety thing are here,
Just so the substance will to all appear. ?
Digitized by L j O o q I c
310
At twelve at night thou say’st the room did shake,
And great confusion from thy neighbour broke,
With voice mo6t dreadful he did thee alarm,
And saw the fiend that thou didst not discern,
Which like a dog did first to him appear.
His senses strong, and saw the devil there.
He saw thy folly for to judge him light;
But well I know he saw the every sight
It was the dev.I that did shake the room,
And for his prey he certainly was come;
But by my angels I had guarded thee,
A sight so dreadful they'd not let thee see.
But oh ! the following night lutdst thou been there,
A voice more dreadful thou would’st surely hear.
And yet all this did not bis friends awake;
His wife nor sons did not their vice forsake.
Thou say’st on God that he ne’er did call;
JJo, no ; that name was bury’d from them all;
He liv’d a heathen, and a heathen dy’d,
And to the heathens now’ must be apply’d ;
For many heathens now are in your land,
Who judge no God, nor do they understand
That unto Satan the> give every will;
But now’s the time all such he’ll surely chill;
For now the midnight-hour is coming near,
That all such heathens may begin to fear;
For Satan’s fury now is coming on,
And fast you’ll find he’ll shake the hearts of men,
That to his spirit they themselves do bind ;
A midnight-hour is coming they will find,
That he will surely shake their house of clay,
And like the dying man will thousands say,
“ In every shape I see the devil there.0
For now the midnight-hour will come for all
That on the Lord for mercy will not call.
The midnight-bopr for all is nigh at hand;
Then like the .dying man will trembling sinners stand
For now the hour of death is coming near,—
The death of Sin and Satan will appear
M qch like a greedy dog to get his prey,
Or in his shape his own for to convey
Unto his kingdom; there they all must dwell
Until I come to rescue death and heH ;
For death and hell must then give up their dead,
Then earth’s foundation newly will be laid*
Digitized by
srii
But if your backs are brass, and sinews here
Are made of iron, that you do not fear
To see that prison till the judgment-day,
And Satan’s fetters do not frighten ye;
Then on the Lord 1 know you will not call,
Till Satan comes to bring that fear on all,
And your repentance then will come too late,
When in your prison you will meet your fate,
And see the fiend, whose ways you like so well;
And to all nations now this thing I tell:
That as the midnight-hour did then appear,
The dying man, a neighbour, that is here,
So will the midnight-hour for all come on,
That trembling voices be in every laud;
Tor Satan’s roving like a beast of prey,
And like a dog he steals my sheep away,
And like himself in every shape appear;
And now the midnight-hour for all is near,
Who unto Satan do their spirits bind,
Who fear no God, nor keep him in their mind;
Then sure the devil he will make them fear,
If God cannot; and now I warn you here,
The midnight-hour for all is nigh at hand,
When like the dying man you’ll trembling stand.
But if your God you now begin to fear,
You need not tremble when his hand is near;
But if the fear of God you cast awa/,
The midnight-hour doth close before you lay:
For like the dying man all lands will shake,
And-fast confusion on you all will break.
So mark the caution I have given to all,
And as the shadows will the substance fall*
So in the history you must weigh all deep;
I’veshew’d the end how all things they will break.
And now these dangers you will not come near;
I f you fear God, the other you need not fear.
To fear the Lord I’d have you all begin,
Or Satan’s fury soon his fears will bring;
And like the room the earth will surely shake,
’ And Satan’s fury fast upon you break.
So if your fears you banish all at first,
I tell you in the end they all will burst;
For as the history doth to all appear,
Just so you’ll find the end of all is near*
So now these trifling shadows weigh them deep,
For so thesubstance (into all wiU break/'
Digitized by G o o g l e
212
>
Thefollowing U tie Mk Pttr*bkx>f my Mother**Deith.
u Ndw from thy toother here's * lifce for nil*
She had no fear when I her life did call;
But yet her God she foated all her days,
And in her death she gave him every prttfce,
And all her children did commit to me*
Now here's the different masters, let tnen see;
The one with pleasute did her Lord behold;
The other saw his god, ahd Soon turn'd Cold,
That is, his heart was chill'd with every sight;
The other dy'd with triumph and delight.
And in this manner Soon your lands will burst.
And now like Moses here the words are plac’d ;
For good and evil now I set before,
Chu96 which you will, and let your foars be O'er;
For if you say you now will cause the good; .
You need not fear; you all will shun the bad ;
And like thy toother thou wilt find a friend,
That will protect thee safe unto the end ;
But if the evil you say you will chase,
And fcll the gdbd you say you will refase ;
My love nor anger you say you'll not fear;
Then dike the dying man you may take cWe;
Because your fears will meet you in ohe day,
To see your leader, trembling then you'll lay,
And then your fohrsthey will come once for all—*
O England 1 England 1 hear thy every Call.
For as that peace possess'd thy mother's breast,
And in my bosom she composed her rest;
So shall my friends, that do rely on rtrfc.
As peaceful mansions each of them shall see;
Then all their children they'll commit to st£.
And now her dying words T\l answer thee:
Thy mother's faith it unto thee was known,
Butin this history not one quarter's shewn ;
But from the faith that thou hast written here,
Her brother’s death I'll now together clear.
She for her children all alike did pray,
That from the womb they might be born of ME.
But here's a mystery, none do understand—
It is by heirship comes your every land;
Digitized by G oogle
Then as through heirship it doth all appear,
The fourth daughter now most ho the heir,
Since all the other three are surely dead.
To whom as heirs the premise it was made.
To Sftah drst the promise it was given,
That all her children should he heir* of heaven s
It was in Isaac all the earth 1 bkss'd,
And all believers are like Isaac plac'd. '
So here's the first that did assume the heir,
To whom the promis'd land was given there.
Mow to the second heir of course I come,
And that is Esther must to all be known;
Who, when her brethren were design'd to dii
Upon a gallows, built by Hainan high,
Esther, their sister, then did so appear,
to free her brethren, as an hairem there,
And the Icings favour she for them.did gain,
So half his kingdom she did then obtain*
And here the royal sceptre it wat pW d,
She freed her people; and the die was cast ’
To fall on Hamas, who Sought to destroy
Her very brethren, they might not«w*y
The promised blessing they were to obtain,
Bat yet by Esther they the pm&ks{nsf<
L
So now I’ve shewn do.you the: second hair,
That did in Esther to the Jews appear ;
Then now 1 tell you i'll cttbe to the third:
You know to David was the promisemadcy
Hint from htshbwss there euteiy shouldappear
An heiress theh tobifagthe perffectheir,
That after him thesceptre he should sway-*-
Ye men of learningjudge wbbt 1 do say ;
For if the heiressdid from him appear,
YouaH do know tbe son must bethe hair;
And kings their crcncm must cast before^thy feet,
And at my cross you must my kingdom meet;
Therefore my judge did Write, my destiny
In Hebrew, Greek, and Latm did appear;
And Hebrew, Greek, end! Latin you see' here,
That is too bigbfor you to tmdeihtand; >
Few men have learning all this to commabd;
For just like children yon do al) appear, .
That Hebrew, Greek, and Latin, cannot clear,
Mo more by learning can you clear the whole—
But know the sword went through the woman's soul
Then now the mystery you may all see dear,
Digitized by G oogle
A father's anger doth cut off the heir $
That is, to cut the*entail from all hisiand,
And then another heir he doth command.
Then as a father I have done the same,
And from the Gentiles now the heir must come %
And let the generations to appear,
The third and fourth is pronounced here, .
Where I shall end my blessing or my curse,
And here you'll find that every die is cast;
For all will find the heiress now is come—
Look to my Gospel, and you may discern
The barren womb doth to you all appear;
And those that do believe, will bless her here ;
For more than Esther she stood out for all,
And now, ye fools ! if you can't seeyour call,
Then sure the generations must be come
That every fatal woe must fall thereon.
For seven children they are here apply'd,
That I shall give unto the world so wide.
The first a son, whom I shall call an heir,
And so the elder brother did appear;
Then four daughters after him did come,
And the three first I have pronounc’d as dead;
Then sure the fourth must the heirship plead.
But yet thou s&y’st thou dost not understand
How ever a woman can possess the land,
While that her elder brother doth remain ;
But I've compar’d him to thy brother slain*
Thou know'st thy brother ne’er possest his land ;
But as an heir he certainly doth stand.
But here the woman I pronounce the heir;.
Then sure in thee the fourth doth appear.*’
Two brethren after thee thou know'st did cbme,
Thou know'st a Joseph, and thou know'st:a John
The one is living, but the other dead ;
And so the Jews and Gentiles now are led;
For sure like dead men do the Jews appear,
But many living in the Gentiles are,
Though like thy brother they do not know.
A Joseph's words do from.the Gentiles flow.
Thou know’st thy brother said he. knew not' thee,
But was surpris’d when he thy face did see;
Digitized by G o o g l e
But after that he did thee sure deny—
He had no sister that could prophesy;
AtM many brothers thou hast got the same,
And that’s'the way thy brother's prison came)
Because in anger I did hate the man,
To judge by all he was impos'd upon.
And as thy brother did deny thee there,
So I rnaoe man deny his every prayer;
So if thy brethren do thee now deny,
1 tell them all they'll feel a Joseph's cry.
So now let men of learning weigh it deep,
Lest in a prison t(ie; like Joseph weep.
But here's a mystery none do understand
Until the history further comes to hand.
But here's a Hannah that obtain'd by prayer,
And for the Gentiles now has got an heir,
For to possess the promise first was made,
The woman's seed to bruise the serpent’s head."
i\5
Here I have cut short my history, to publish a
singular circumstance that happened some time in
the month o f August last; which is as follows.
A gentleman came to me from Liverpool, who
said he had been ordered by the Spirit to come to
Exeter, to know the truth concerning me. He
began by telling me a most remarkable strange
dream. I asked him, if he had no other business
here, but to me ? . He said he came on purpose, and
that his name was Peter Morrison, of Liverpool. I
looked on this-as madness ; and having no recollec?
tio n o f my being ever warned o f such strange occur­
rence, gave but little credit to his being sent by the
L o rd ; as I thought the Lord would have warned
me o f his coming. I pitied the man in my heart,
and invited him to come and drink tea witn me in
the afternoon; o f which he accepted, and I enter*
tained him at a friend’s house, wnere we made him
Stay supper and spend the evening. I was asto­
nished at his understanding, and found him a per­
son o f sound judgment, and not the least inclined
to madness. M yself and friends heard him with
pleasure, and wished to have more o f his company;
but his. saying he was ordered by the Spirit to come
near three hundred miles to know the truth con­
cerning me, was a stumbling-block unto me, as I
judged I should have been warned myself. M y
friend gave him an invitation at her house the next j
d a y ; but jealousy kept me from pressing him to |
stay apy longer than his own inclination led-him.
He said he did not know whether he should tarry
or n o t; so I gave him up to his own directions.
In the night, as I lay in my bed, I was ordered
to call to my remembrance the words that were
said to me in 1795, “ I should know what Spirit
led me, when the Lord should send L ------- unto
me.” B y this I understood a reverend gentleman,
whom I had been writing to, from 1793 to 1795.
And it was said to me in my writings, 1 should
know the Spirit when L ------ did come, and say I
had warned him in a midnight dream, -
And he to Exeter must surely go
Unto Joanne, every truth to know.
T his I wrote and sealed up in 1793, with many
more words I do not remember; but these words
have always been running in my mind, that m y
writings would never be proved before L —— — was
warned, and came to me. But when it was brought
to my remembrance in my bed, that this was
*16
Digitized by G oogle
the L— ----- the Lord meant, I marvelled at his
bearing a different name. I was answered, 1 should
remember Paul and Peter Were called Saul and
Simon: the Lord gave men different names. This
made me restless and uneasy all the night In the
morning I arose early, and went to the. inn, to
enquire for him; when, to my sorrow, 1 found he
was gone. My heart felt loaded with grief, because
I had not constrained him to abide with ns a few
days. I acquainted all my friends that I had reason
to think the Lord had sent him. So we all began
to reflect on ourselves, that we had not constrained
him to abide with us a few days, without being at
an inn. But all our repentance came too late;
and 1 could not forgive myself I had not entreated
him to tarry longer, as I had many deep and
weighty things to lay before him, which jealousy
prevented my doing, thinking he might be a spy,
and that curiosity, not the Lord, had sent him;
for I am jealous of men, as well as devils, fearing I
might be deceived; as I am of a fearful make; but
when I was convinced the Lord had sent him, my
heart and soul were wounded within me. I was
ordered toc
write out the manner of his coming, and
it was answered me in the following manner.
" Now this mystery I will answer,
If thou canst not see it plain;
I, Jehovah, is thy master,
4 I shall shew it from the name.
Did Peter here to thee appear ?
And was the journey long }
The length of it he did not fear;
Thatlength to thee he came.
Then let the L. go fbt*the Lord, v
' Then Peter’s love did reach,
To join you all with one accord,
His brethren to beseech
That they would see the mystery,
£
817
Digitized by
A*d every sign tee clew;
Now in the volume it must go
• To warn men far and near.
1 am not trifling now with man;
His jojirney^e not in vain $ 7
For if Us love did reach so long,
The Lord will this maintain,
That it was I, who dwell on high,
Did surely send the man; *
And many things from ninety-five
Are now* unto thee come;
For this is now the L. I mean,
That must to thee appear;
And from the length I shall contend
The Lord did send him here.
For now HI Drove a Peter's love
Did launch into the deep,;
The boisterous waves from Satan came,
And made my Peter sink.
For what he came it was unknown,
The mysteries are behind »
And like a bird is Peter flown,
For to distress thy mind.
Then I’ll appear to answer here,
Men’s hearts will grieve the same,
"When that my supper doth appear,
Who do not know my npmo.
It was his name that thee deceiv’d ;
For had his name bteen Lr—------,
It would have soon thy bean Inflam’d,
And would thy.friend beseech
With thee to stay another day;
And woukTst not let him go; .
But tip* brought on thy jealousy,
A name thoa dost not know.
For this to man must deeply come,
Aathousanda are.the same; .
They ne’er discern how. I do tpaoi,
Nor do. they know my name;
Thai when I come, it must be known
My Spirit must appear,
And must be in the woman’s form,
And let the stare appear;
And then ypu’lLsee the.mysimy, t
How 1 shall all explain. 4*
The fiery serpent now I'll dear,
And shew the vision plain.
218
____Digitized by C j O O ^ I c
Mr. M o rbiso k’s VISION, .
A
* IIUTf> I f IftlfSBLr.
Mr. Morrison told me, that being on a journey*
which the Lord had sent him, as he was travelling
over a common of great length, at the close of day,
there appeared to him a fiery serpent, with a large
body of fire turning him in different forms, and
apparently twisting nb bead round his body to rear
up his head. That it being dark, and having UP
company, he grew afraid; when-lifting up hb
heart ami thoughts to the Lord, hb courage began
So come, and he had fortitude to bid the serpent to
go behind him; which it did, and he lost it soon
after. There was also a sword presented to the
side of his face, as a body of fire or gold. He saw
the handle come before his face, and two amazipg
large stars rested on each side of the point of the
sword, working for some time in different colours,
and at length disappeared. He shewed me the
chapters where he opened to in the Bible: the ex­
planation of which I shall give to my readers here­
after, and proceed to the solution of the serpent
and the sword.
**The fiery serpent is the devil, who will appear in
a body of fire amongst mankind, with every art,
and every shape: he wiH now twist and work him­
self to inflame the hearts of men, and fill roy
friends with fear; but these fears will vanish, if
men, by faith, trust in m e . It b not the darkness
that has covered the earth, nor die gross darkness
the hearts of the people; one part of them shall
frighten thie other part; for Satan mutt get behind
Digitized by G oogle
them ; and the sword of the Lord shall go before
them, and by them, to protect them.. For as the
sword was held by his side, so shall my sword
defend them from all dangers; and as the two
stars that were on the top of the. sword are my
two great witnesses, such is the morning and the
evening star; and now they are both risen together,
be assured the day is far spent, and so shortened
tint it is near its decline, so that the evening star
will appear before the morning star disappears.
Then judge how your days are shortened, and to
what a span they are come. Now compare my
Gospel together: “ I was hungry, .and ye gave m e
“ no' meat; thirsty, and ye gave me no drink ; in
“ prison, and ye visited me not: as much as ye did
“ it not unto the least of these my disciples, ye did
.** U, not unto m e . ”
- '! For by my Spirit Fm imprison'd here-^t
Wide wandering through the world my friends appear,
^nd yet I see but few do entertain; *
‘ And o f thy coldness thou dost now complain 3
' But still reflection in thy heart doth burn.
. And now this warning 1 do give to man:
If they, like thee, in jealousy appear,
When 'tis too late, like thee, they'll see more clear,
~ . That it is I that doth direct thy hand,
' And their mistake is by the name, doth stand*
For now my second coming doth appear
First in a woman is a mystery, here,
’ That men are stumbled, and like thee become, n
To find me present in the woman's form.
The time nor fulness no man doth discern*;. .
* • To find a woman in the room o f man,
Is just like thee, when Morrison to thee came :
And 'twas the name alone that stumbled thee ;
• Had it been L----- the calling thou woold'st'see ;
To say the calling surely was firom heaven, .
It was fulfill'd, to thee the words were given.
But now to reason 1 shall sure begin;
The truth of thee had all to L—— been seen ; .
Digitized by y .
G oogle
Then sure f need net warn him to appear, ,
To see the truth of what he knew before;
And if he judg'd it all an idle dreas^
I need not warn him for to see more plain; -
Because th* truths are all before his viewy.
And if I warn him, can he say'tis true ?
If Satan like an angelcame to thee,
Then like an angel hemay come to he;
And so alike you both may be deceiv'd ;
And shall I warn a man so wrong believ'd ?
I ask what usqsuch warning would appear?
Then now the mysteries i'll begin to clear:
This was the very L—-— I said would come, .
And the first thing he told thee was his dream,
That in thy memory thou hast now forgot,
And every mystery's beyond thy thought;
And so is all beyond the thought of man—
But let the sword and stars together come;
Because the sword you'll find it is my woid,
And the two stars upon the glittering svyord.
It is the morning.star that doth appear,
And in the evening star doth now shine clear;
And now together both you see are met.
The days are shorten'd, and the truth is great.
If in the woman 1 arise to shine.
You all must know the days are near decline.
And here's a mystery deep for man,
As L— — and Morrison, different namesdid come;
For Morrison told what 1 said before,
Twas but the name that made thee for to err.
And now my second coming is the same,
. The Holy Ghost, the Comforter, is come ;
And now my Father's words 1'H surely clear;
He said a helpmate he'd for man prepare.
That in the end she should complete nis bliss;
And can my Father's just decrees e'er miss ?
No— earth and hell may now combine in vain; -
The fiery serpent may in man contain;
But soon you'll find my glittering sword appear,
And the two stars upon the top see clear,
That at my coming I'll the woman free—
She cast her blame on Satan ; not on Mjt;
Then sure upon her I'll not cast the blame.
But now my Father's promise I shall claim,
To make the serpent now to lick the dust,
And above all men to receive his curse. x
Digitized by
\
And u the serpent first <Mbfuise my keel,
The fetal sword went through the woman's sofil;
The day of vengeance then was in my heart,
To turn the swortl that he should fee! the dart;
So be may burn and twist himself in rain ;
Upon the sword the glittering stars were plant.
Tnc woman pleads my promise to fulfil ;
Then here's the evening star, judge as you will;
But 'tis the morning star most in her rise,
And by his sword be plac'd before your eyes.
*Tis I must conquer as tbe woman's friend;
And by my sword HI make tbe foe to bend.
Now, from the manner aHthe stars are plac'd,
I'll bring tbe mystery to the human race.
The day-light with the morning star appears,
And the son-rising then you know is near;
Then sure the sun must govern firstthe day,
For man to see his true and perfect way.
But that perfection man doth not obtain,
Which plainly shews the sun hath shone in Tain ;
Therefore the darkness covers now the eaTth,
And man goes hack from whence he first had birth
That is, I say, created aWanew,
And bring tbe woman now beforehis view; ^
That as the evening star doth now appear,
The day declining and the nigjht is near;
Then see what stars will now arise to shine,
The sun be darken'd, and the moon decline;
Because the sun isnow in darkness set,
And it is gone beyond your every thought;
And as the moon's declin'd, and it is gone,
The stars are left to govern then alone;
And from tbe stars you gather all your light, '
No moon at all, you'll find there is a night
Wherein the moon doth not appear at all,
Which plainly proves to man the devil’s fell.
The sun is stedfast, and thestars the same,
In deep philosophy these things I name;
Because the moon doth never stedfast stand,
Which is a sure and certain sign for. man,
. That Safari's kingdom it must passaway.
And like tbe moon it certain must decay ;
Until you find there is no moon at all—
That sign Is fix'd to prove the devil's fall;
And now the moon it must be turn'd to blood,
And in the woman know the type hath stood.
Digitized by G oogle
m
So bore’s a mystery stands deep for man-r-
The cleansing blood doth from the woman come >
And when the moon is turned into blood,
Then all are washed in that heavenly flood ; '
And then my Father you no more will blame.
To make the woman; as you said, your shame
Was brought on by her; but you do not know
What light will burst when 1 the day-light shew;
And then the tree of knowledge you may taste,
The bad is fallen, and the good is plac’d,
That by the woman must be handed down.
Let Jews and Gentiles both come to the sounds
And know the woman was the bone of man;
And now unto Isaiah you must come:
I said a bone of him should not be broke ;
I ask theJews why they their prophet mock;
For if like man I did to them appear,
And of my bone, that was not broken there,
And yet they say that I was but a man;
Then with the Gentiles FU to reason come ;
For as in Adam they say that they dy’d ;
Then so in Christ they must be made alive.
Then sure in Adam you say that you fell;
Twas by the woman if the truth you tell,
And by the bone was taken then from man*
Then now unto the purpose I shall cqme^
And your strong reasons let them now appear.
And now the law and gospel yon shall clear:
For as you say that you dya from his bone.
That was the woman taken then from man;
Then now the same it iflito you must come,
And see the bone now taken from his side,
In heast and life must be to you apply’d,
For to taka vengeance on her master’s haej,
And all toSa tan everyheart did feel,
To work by malice then my overthrow,
And to the root she surely cast the blow* /.
And now. the axe is laid unto the tree,
And all thatare her foes cut down shall be;
Because this boneit nevershall be broke,
And men and devils now may fear the stroke ;
For here’s the sin against the Holy Ghost,
To say the woman’s sentence is not just; •
Because the devil they must sure appear,
Or else'his friend to wish his kingdom here;
Then to his kingdom I do bid sudi go,
Digitized by G oogle
5M4
And then their master they will better krioh^
S* scribes and pharisees you may appear,
And your hypocrisy I now shall clear:
Freiend your seal is for the Lord of Hosts,
When your desire is Satan be not cast;
But'such hypocrisy I do despise,
And alt my friends will say the woman's wise.
And give her credit for a curious head*
If you do judge my Spirit never led \
Then say that justice doth in her appear,
To br,uise the serpent's head as promis’d there.
But her desire hath to her husband been,
And 'trsin sorrow now she'll children bring;
But they're deliver'd ere they feel the pain;
But over her, her husband he doth reign,
Or else I tell )ou she had ne'er went on;
Her faith and fears are all conceal'd from man;
But thereis nothing that's conceal'd from he ;
And l let Satan work her jealousy,
To see iffche would persevere in lies;
And now no longer I shall here disguise:
I saw the anguish that wa9 in her soul,
And by her fiends this hath been seen by all;
Then what impostor can to you appear,
Who hath gone on in sorrow now nine years,
And warned of dangers they were nigh at hand ?
I warn'd the sword should go from land to land;
I warn'd the scarcity that would appear;
I warn'dthedearth, and you have found things dear;
1 warn'd the burthen it would on yon come;
I warn'd that discord would be in your land;
I warn'd that peace you would not easy make;
I warn'd, your harvests that theystood at stake;
1 warn'd the blindness that was in your land;
And now these warnings you may all command;
For eveiy one doth say these truths we feel;
But few do*see it, now my friends stand still.
Fbr sure as t>Hnd*men you must all appear,
To feel the truth, but cannot see it clear;
A blind-plan ieels, you know, but cannot see—
Digitized by G oogle
a&5
0 England t England! such blind fools are ye;
And this yon know I warn'd you all before;
Then say what beam before your eyes appears.,
Ye scribes and pharisees! I tell you plain,
You see the mote, but never see the beam:
For if I suffer Satan to appear
To tell one lie, you all can see it clear.;
But if a thousand truths together come,
You feel them all, but cannpt them discern.
Then now together you may all compare,
And now I warn you that the ditch is near;
If that like blind-men you do now go on,
Yourll stumble at the noon-day, not the moon;
Because in darkness you can easy see
If that one single lie is told by he.
But now, my Bible, let it all appear;
1 ask what travail pains could e'er be here?'
If every thing appear in a straight line.
No travail pains for man thou e’er could’st firtd ;
For earth and hell may spend their rage in vain,
'Tis but thy fears that makes thee to complain,
I know the greatness of thy very soul;
Was thy faith stedfast thou would'st laugh at all;
For men and devils thou wilt laugh to scorn, ,
When once thou find'stthe Man-Child is but bonr;
And all thy travail pains thou'lt soon forget
When on thy head my glittering stars do sit; .
Then Satan's malice it may rage in vain.
And thou wilt smile at all the sons of men*
So love and anger will together burn ;
And 'tis for men alone that thou wilt mourn;
For thou'lt rejoice to see the Man-Child born,
Some men thou'lt pity, others thou wilt scorn;
But thou wilt find that thy revenge issweet,
To see the serpent fall before thy feet,
And see the glittering stars appear to shine ;
Thy travail pains no longer then thou'lt mind,
When righteousness and truth together meet,
And love and peace will then each other greet,
And such a joyful day 'twill be for man,
As Adam found when I the woman form’d ;
F
V
Digitized by G oogle
And more than Adam men will stand amaz’d,
And more than Adam every one will gaze,
To see the knowledge from the woman's hand,
That by (heir wisdom they cannot command;
Because thy hand there is no man cau read,
But soon they'll find the truth of all thop'st said.
“ O, heavenly wonder 1” will mankind begin,
“ Is this the bone was taken once from man,
“ That now so closely sticks unto his side ?
“ One heart and soul together's now apply'd.
“ How could the man upon her cast the blame ?
“ Was she deceiv'd i then he was just the same ;
u And like the woman he might then reply,
“ And never cast the blame on God most high.
“ But how like Adam we must copy here,
“ And give the glory to our Saviour dear :
(i For if on God the man did cast the blame,
€
<Then now from God doth all our glory come.
“ So on our Maker we the praise will cast; *
u For 'tis from him that all our glory bursts,
u Since now the good fruit he has handed down,
4
t That on the tree of knowledge then was found;
“ And now the knowledge it is in her hand, .
By such writings as we cannot command,
“ And seal'd from us what shortly will appear,
“ And what all nations have to hope and fear;
“ And all our Bibles we see open wide;
il And now in Adam, we see how wedy'd;
“ And so in Christ we now are made alive.
MF6r in the woman we dy'd all at first,
u And in the woman now we're brought to Christ,
“ That as in Adam is pronounced dead,
“ So now in Christ we sec our living Head ;
u To give the woman, taken from his side,
“ May now, like Eve, be unto us apply'd,
“ To plead the promise that her Lord did make,
“ To send the curse upon the poisonous snake,
“ And gave her wisdom for to see it plain,
u He never yet receiv'd such curse as men :
u For men do tremble when they feel the rod;
MThe hardened sinners tremble at their God,
tc When that the gallows is before their view, *
“ And Satan's malice makes them tremble too."
Then surely man feels now the greatest curse;
If this goes on, my promise then must miss ;
And this I've given her wisdomto discern,
'226
Digitized by G oogle
Thrft she may plead my promises must come9
To make the serpent for to lick the dust;
And in my promises now her trust,
That every one of them I'll now fulfil,
And more than man thescrpent's heart I'll chill
And 'tis by wisdom you know how to pray,
And how to plead your words aright to me ;
Then now by wisdom let my stars appear,
And like the woman plead in fervent prayer,
That all my promises I may now fulfil,
And more than man the serpent's heart to chill.
For as the serpent 1 compar'd to beasf,
And so the devil now with man is cast;
But if the serpent gave the beast a sting,
I ask you which is the greatest sufferer then,
Until that sting from him is taken away ?
The beast the greatest sufferer he doth lay.
And here. I tell you all the lines go deep.
The sting of Satan you do all feel it;
Until that sting from man is taken away,
The greatest sufferer now in man doth lay:
The sting of conscience, and the sting of sin,
The fears of hell, do all your sorrows bring,
While Satan triumphs as a traitor here,
No sting of conscience he doth feel or fear;
Because his nature i* a poison strong;
And you may marvel, as from heaven he came,
flow such a fiery serpent should be there.
This is a mystery I to man shall dear;
When they together do in judgment sit,
In six days labour I shall all complete.
So if this volume you do but weigh deep,
You'll see my Bible plainly speaks of it.
But as you say the woman's foiled here
In many things, I'll make the mystery clear.
•How could her travail pains then e'er come on,
If Satan's arts did not upon her come ?
To be deliver'd she could never cry,
If all from God in a straight line did lie:
Then her deliverance she must wish from me ;
And with my Bible this could not agree;
For then no stars I'd place upon her head,
Nor at her feet could Satan e'er be laid,
If every thing was clear before her view,
And Satan's arts did never her pursue,
And from bis power and arts 1 kept her free,
227
Digitized by
In pain to he delivered then from k k
Must be the language of her heart and soul;
And such a heart Vd quickly free from all,.
And all her prophecies should quickly drop;
She need not cry, nor have no room to hope,
If all the sorrow she hath now gone through
Was but to mourn that she my work must do,
And wish to be deliver’d from that pain;
I tell you all she should not long complain.
I’d soon give prophecies should stop her hand ;
And, to confound her, I’d soon work in man,
That as the six together they did meet,
And by a lying spirit gave it up,
So six more lying spirits should appear,
The twelve together, as they placed were,
And soon confound her in the every sound—-
MIt is to stop thy folly now we’re found
4
4 To meet.together, now to please a.fool,
44 And stop thy madness doth our anger rule,
4
4 That no such folly should go in the land*
4
4 We see no prophecies for to command
4
4 For thou to publish to the world abroad,
4
4 Nor in it can we seethe hand of God.”—
So thus together I’d make them to meet,
And by rqy a,nger would their aoger.heat,
To take the burthen thou complaint of lon£
If weary of my labour thou wast come,
And found’st it difficult for to go through,
I say like man, like man, I’d surely do.
I’d ne’er keep silence like the other two;
But like the Deacon, every soul should know,
That all thy prayers I surely would turn back;
And then ljke-<-----------every man should act,
To give the warning then for to appear,
And so a fool should meet her folly there;
For to the twelve thou say’st thou'dst give it up;
And by the twelve thy burthen soon should drop,
Till 1 a heavier burthen brought on thee,
And like ibis night thy slumber all should be,
That no physician could appear to cure,
And then tby burthen I’d increase much more ;
For on tby. death-bed thou would’st trembling lie— »
My life’s a burthen, and afraid to die,
Would be the language of thy heart and soul:
And then sqch burthen I’d soon brought on all,
That like tby sister daily do complain,
Digitized by G oogle
Thou art a,burthen to the sons of men ;
And in the end the burthen all should .see,
Had'st thou complain'd the burthen came from me.
But well Iknow what made thee to complain :
The arts of Satan oft have fill’d thy brain,
That in thy writings I let to appear,
And tell tbee lies, and All thy heart with fear*
Then I appear'd in wonders that were true,
And all these mysteries laid before thy view,
Which caus'd a burthen in iliy mind and soul,
Thou judg'est one spirit that did tell thee all.
Bui in thy writings thou dost not discern,
Nor fn what manner I to thee did warn*
That if pride ever, shquld ari^e in thee,
It was by Satan* humbled thou should’st be.
And how couid;Satan ever lower thy pride,
Had I not let him go, and thee misled ?
•And when i saw he'd sunk thee in despair,
I sent my Spirit for to comfort there, *
That thou in faith and fear might’st still go on,
And so this burthen still upon thee come;
As like the chapter all thy life appear,
And now the glittering stars will shew' thee clear,
That all this calling it did come from heaven,
And unto them shall every* truth be given.
For then the mystery thou wilt all see clear—
These are the stars thou sawest in tl^c air
When M------an<J \Y-— — did sit down,*
Tir'd with walking, thou know’st both were found ;
But thou didst tell them thou must travel on :
Unto the glittering stars thou know’st thou didst come;
And on thy bead.thou'it find the.stars,to shine,
And great's the light they'll give to all mankind; .
For these are stars I shew'd thee^in the air;
And these arc 6tars that will to thee appear.
And.though.the darkness it has been in thee,
Wandering alone thou oft hfst tby, way ;
But now these stars they will arise to shii^e,
And great's tbe light they'll give unto mankind, .
And great’s the light they will give unto all,
Bat down wi^i twenty'■ four snrdly fall,
Who will be preay\* aM b^ vsiy 1
Without tbe seal they will admittance find ; ,
But not as stars not named to appear;
It is the seals that every star must clear.
* See the Preaxa inserted in the following page*
Digitized by
So rn the end all this they'll surely see.
Ami now remember what I said to tbee,
• For the disobedience of the first;
They broke the seals; and how can they be plac'd
Ever to come as stars upon thy head ;
III trust no judges who so wrong do plead,
That Satan’s come in any angel's form,
To preach such doctrine as they don't discern ;
And those thou ask'dst, and did refuse to come.
If now they do, I'll surely cast out them ;
Unless they do repent before too late,
And write to thee before the book is shut.
For the first book thou dost together put
Of this fifth volume, let it to be shut;
That is, the book I bid thee for to seal,
And then the names of all I shall reveal.
230
♦
On Christmas, in the year 1795, I dreamt, that
as Mrs. M. and Mrs. W. and myself were going a
journey, I thought it was late in the night, and
that they were tired and sat down, saying they
could go no farther. I told them I would travel
on by myself; for I must pursue my journey. I
thought I went.on the top of a hill, where I saw
a parcel of stars in the air, like a flock of birds,
wnich shone amazingly bright; but they were not
in the Armament. At this I marvelled, and thought
I went back, and related the circumstance to Mrs.-
JJ. and Mrs. W. and expressed a wish that they
had been with nie to see them ; when they inform­
ed me, that they had seen the stars pass before
them. I know not how it was explained to me at
that time, but I have shewed you how it is explained
to me now.
Digitized by G oogle
The last chapter of the Revelation was explain*
.ed to me, in answer to the words of a Minister, who
from reading that chapter told me he understood
from thence, that prophecies must be no more. It
was then shewn to me in the following manner,
which I was ordered to write out and send to him ;
but I shall now send it to him in print, as I am
ordered to put it in print. So what I say unto
one, I say unto you all, who judge the Bible as be
did.
Rev. Sir, Exeter, Aug. 1801.
Now I will come to the Revelation,
which you shewed me. As contrary as the Jews took
or understood the law and the prophets, so wrong
have the Gentiles understood the Gospel and the
Revelation of St. John. I shall now come to the
purport of the words which are misunderstood by
the Gentiles. It is written, “ Seal not up the say­
ings of the prophecies of this book:” which ^signi­
fies the Bible. Then why do men seal them up,
as though all was said and finished, £nd no more
prophecies to be added to them, or no revelation to
be revealed from them ? It is called the Revela­
tion, as a book to be revealed, and not concealed ;
as a book to be sealed up from man. He that add-
eth thereto, or taketh therefrom, addeth to him­
self all the plagues that are therein written.—
Now I shall come to the purpose. He that addeth
thereto, must add to the Scriptures from his own
wisdom, and not assent or consent to the truth of
them; then he will add to himself all the plagues
that are written therein : and now they are all
coming fast on men. Many add to the Scriptures,
and pervert them, to their own condemnation.
231
Digitized by G oogle
ss*
By adding thereto, is to say things they cannot find
scripture-proof for. Now if any fitah will prove ,
that I have spoken what I cannot bring scripture-
proof for, I will give It up. Let men examine nty
writings, and point out any one passage or page
they blame, and if I cannot find scripture-proof for
it, then I will resign to man; if ndt, let them
"know, the spirit is* the Spirit of Jesus, that is not
Come'to seaf up the sayiugs of the book, but to re­
veal them. He that taketh therefrom will surely
take his part out of the book and tree of life; that
is, he will take away his part by his unbelief. For
the tree of life. was preserved for man, guarded
with the sword. “ Now the sword meaneth the
sword of my word, that was given to the serpent;
I pronounced him cursedabove every living creature;
then I must pronounce the devil cursed above evefy
man or woman, which hath not yet taken place;
but now the time is at hand when his curse w)U
come upon him, by the promise I made to the Wo­
man,' her seed should bruise his head ; as he bruised
his heel, so shall she bruise his head. The promise
was given between the woman and the serpent:
the promise was.-given to the woman, her seed
-should bruise his head, and so it must end ; and he
that- taketh away that promise, will certainly take
away his part out of the book of life; for on that
promise stands your full redemption from the
Tall. With the woman and the serpent it began,
and with the woman and the serpent it must end.
When the seed of the woman Stands the woman’s
friend; for let all men know, it was not the seed
of man.
Digitized by G oogle
Then w
h
ydo you the Trinity condemn l
If I in unity did so appear,'
The Holy Ghost did unto her appear,
And by that seed produc'd the heavenly Heir.
Then sure the Spirit and the Bride must'come
' To bring the unity with God and man ;
And he that cloth this promise take away,
He hath no part in the great mystery;
And he that adds thereto will surely miss,
And on himself will surely bring a curse;
Because he'll add it all another way,
And not believe the promise as it lay.
For the first promise 1 did give to man,
It was the woman should as helpmate come,
And thereby promis'd to complete his bliss;
And of this promise every one will miss,
That now this promise he will take away,
And bring the plagues that do before him lay.
For now I ask, what promise they can plead ?
The Jews did prove their mother was misled ;
Then sure as bastards they did all appear;
Then ho • their Bibles will they now see clear,
Since all their Bibles they have thrown aside,
And all their prophets' words they have deny'd ?
For every promise they have took away,
That in the book of life before them la y ;
And to themselves they surely add a curse,
And of these promises they all did miss,
As they the Scripture* add another way,
Or to the words they different all did say ;
They took their part out of the book of life;
But now I'll come to end their every strife.
And from your sister I shall now begin ;
Deep is the shadow of this veiy thing—
Thou know'st bow — ~ i n tby writbigs plac'd,
And though reprov'd, must stand thy judge at last.
And to thy judge thy sister now appeals;
And in this wisdom neither one shall fail;
Far it was I that worked on her heart
To write to — , and I fix'd the dart
To open all thy sister's wounds anew—
I'll bring jt to the Gentiles and the Jews ;
For I'll indite a letter so for thee,
Tuat to thy judge the Jews shall surely free,
And to bis judgment they shall sure appeal,
And then in judgment *...... shall pot fail.
G
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
But first* I tell thee, be must judge you two,
And after that the Gentile and the Jew
Must sure be judg’d at —■ *
» seat;
And in the end you'll find his judgment great;
As in the manner he doth now go on,
A doubting Thomas unto m e is known;
Unless I find be saith I'll not believe,
Then all the print that in his hands I gave
I'll make so clear, he will know it is I ;
My Lrrd ! ray God! shall be bis every cry;
Because my side shall so to him appear,
And he shall know roy Spirit’s surely here.
I am now eome towards the conclusion of my
Fifth Book, which 1 deferred till I could say, with
clear grounds, that the Spirit of the Lord hath vi-
sited me. And I now am clear it certainly has, or
it never visited any man since earth’s foundation
was placed; for the same Spirit that inspired men
to write' the Bible, hath inspired me.
If you look deep into the mysteries of my wri-
tings, you will find this year to have been perfectly
as I foretold; of which another year will convince
you. If you say I speak in mysteries, I will prove
the Bible does the saine. And now I must call all
to your remembrance, to weigh the whole together.
T<:xe care you do not fulfil the prophecies you des­
pise. and make good what is concealed from your
knowledge under the specks and strokes; if you do,
I witness against you, that you are fulfilling the
prophecies you despise. And I ask, why ye despise
thin.? Is it because you put bitter for sweet, and
sweet for bitter ; good for evil, and evil for good;
and iove the powers of darkness better than you
love one another? For such must be the .language
vf ycur hearts, if you wish to bring the day of yen-
Digitized
:ized by G oogle
■ geance on yourselves and on one another, sooner
than pray the Lord to turn it on the devil, who was
the author of all your sorrows; and now he will be
the finisher thereof, if you follow him, and wish for
his kingdom.
We have a peace; as l said, the year that began
in sorrow would end in joy. And how could it end
in joy without a peace ? I said we had nothing to
fear from invasion by a foreign enemy. Then now
take care one of another; as there is a peace, let ijt
be a peace. But I may say, what peace, as long as
-Satan and his witchcrafts are so many to work in
the hearts of men, to bring the day ofvengeance on
themselves. And you have despised me for placing
it on the devU. What madmen are yel to wish to
nbide in your chains, which are bound by Satan.
Now let it be known by all men, my prophecies
-are hot ended; nay, scarce begun; though all has
happened as I foretold for ten years past; and this
year, as I will prove before any man, hath fallen
out exactly as published in my books. But yon
say they are mysteries you eapuot find out, and it
distracts your senses to look into the mysteries.
Then now take care you do not distract the senses
one of another, and lay violent hands one on another.
O England! O England 1 England i the axe is laid
to the tree,' and it must and will be ciit down; ye
know not the days of your visitation. Will ye fall
out one with another, and lay your fury one on the
other ? Then the midnight-hour is coming for you
all, and will burst upon you. I warn you of dan-
f
ers that now stand before ypu, for tne time is at
and for the fulfilment of all things. “ Who is he
that cometh from Edom, with dyed garments from
835
Digitized by L r O O Q l e
fiorrah; that speaketh in righteousness, mighty to
save all that trust in him; but of my enemies I will
tread them in mine anger, and trample them in my
fury; for the day of vengeance is in my heart, and
the year of my redeemed is come. I looked, and
there was none to help; I wondered there was none
to uphold; therefore my own arm brought salva­
tion unto me, and my fury it upheld me.. (Isaiah
lxiii.) Then now tremble, all ye natious, and be
afraid, all ye people, that put not your trust in
the God of your salvation, who is mighty to save,
and trod the wine-press for you, that the day of ven­
geance might not tail on you, hut fail on your be­
trayer, the devil. But will you say, we will not
bring it on the devil, but on oursdve6? Then now,
O man! I will tread down the people in my anger;
and make them drunk in my fury, and will bring
down their strength to the earth. Therefore now
awake, O Zion I put on thy beautiful garments, O
Jerusalem ! for the year of your redeemed is come.
For Zion’-s sake I will* not hold my peace, and for
Jerusalem’s sake I will not rest, until the righteous­
ness of the Lord goeth forth, or the brightness
thereof. For I said, if for a while I defer it, I
would face my foes once more.
Far now yon say your war is ended;
Novr I say ’iis not begun;
In heaven the armour’s now intended;
Let the Spirit’s sttrord come on;
And now to fight, like men of might,
And ail my armoor wear;
For Satan’s weapons now will fight—
What room have we to fear ?
I tell you plairt, ye sons of men,
Your fears will fast abound; '
- The tree is cast, you’ll find at last
The midnight-hour abouad.
To save the tree will thousand's ilee,
And murder for his sake;
*36
Digitized by G oogle
, 2n
Until you $ea your destiny,. , .
The midnight-hour will break:
*Tis Satan’s kingdom to possess
Will kindle soon the war,
And S 'T'i null lose hpr happiness, '
And shortly will appear,
As jnad as Frenchmen e’er have been*
They are but hush’d asleep, 4
Then now be wise, take care, O S — — !
You dp pot, wake and weep,
^ 0 utter groans that are unknown, »
Your hearts are known, to m s ;.
The day of vengeance now is com
e* •; ,
And on your heads must be.
I tell you a)l it so will fall, -•
If you bring it ou man,
And do not cast the enemy,
As I Aave laid my plan.
To place his curse above ell beast, •
You must that promise claim,
To make the serpent lick the dust;
The woman’s cause maintain,
That she is jusf to have bun cast^
And see her promise clear;
The day of vengeance comes at last,
That man may hope and fear. - .
For if you say another way,
The woman is not right; ^
The heads of men you’ll break in twain,
And so you’ll take your flight,
Till houses desolate you’ll fira},
If you g
<
» on this way.
The warning's deep to gll mankind ; *
See how the tree did lay : .
Between two men the tree was seen,
Which kindled soon the strife, *
And brought the fatal death to one*
The other fled fer life, ^
Who $aid the writings were too high,
Men’s senses for to drown ;
But let him know the blow was nigh.
That took the life of man.
And so men's lives away you'll take,
. If you go on this way ; ,
The midnight-bouryotnl find toll break,
And you in grief will la y ; . . .
v
Digitized by
>
y
G oogle
If you go on to cast on nfan :
The day of vengeance here; )
But the first blow, you all shall kno#r '
Th* Offender now shall clear, i
If he relent, and doth repent }
The folly he hath done. * • ’
Tis he that gives the first offence— * ;
To reason now I’ll come:
Because oftences I forbid, ‘
And know offence was there; *
Tis the first blow that then was laid*
Must set th9 offender cleat.
• So now the trembling prisoner see, 1
Which Til compare to man;
The other dyM about the tree, -
By claiming it his own.
So here’s the type, and it goes deep s
My Bible stands the saitie-*-
The day of vengeance in my heart * '
For Satan is and roan.
To tell you plain, ye sons of men,
If you dispute it here,
Your beads you all will break in twain,
And like the other fear ;
But if you say another way, -
“ We all will give it up;
“ Tis Satan did us all betray,
• 11 And so the tree must drop.?
But if as men you will eonteud,
I say, to part the tree,
Your heads you’ll surely breal in twain,
And like the other flee.
To give it up the tree must drop,
For 1 shall cut it down ;
And fetal 'tis for to dispute, -
The end will so be found.
So here you see a mystery,
A parable for man;
And perfect so the end will be,
And so my Bible stands/ 9
231 s-Jfr*
V
.3
a
t
' Now I shall explain what the parable was be­
tween A and B who quarrelled about a tree that
Digitized by G oogle
fptw b«twixttheirlands. A, contended it washis
property, and B insisted it w
as his, At length B
proposed diriding it, but A refused. Then said B
he wouldgive it to him
, of which A would not ac­
cept, conceiving it his own. ' W
ords then ensued,
and A struck B with a bridle, which violently pro­
voking the latter, he unfortunately struck A on the
head, which proved fatal. B fearing to be appre­
hended, fled at midnight to the house w
here I w
as,
and alarm
ed the fam
ily. This new
s, being brought,
to m
eat midnight, w
as deeply explained to m
e—So
the midnight hour would break for mockers; B ha­
ving been a great m
ocker of my writings; but as
this was tem
poral, it is spiritualized to m
e. The
tree represents the devil; for it is w
ritten, w
hen the
axe is laid to the tree, it m
ust be cut down. As it
Isa type of m
enand devils, the dispute will be on
whomit m
ust fall If they will not give it up, the
wom
an’s right to cast it to the devil, they will bring
it on them
selves, and distract m
ore fam
ilies by their
words, than they have done by their blows. I shall
answ
er all disputants, by deciding to which of the
two the tree belonged.
“ For ss you > * 7 you do not know,
As it between their lands did grow;
Then fully I will answer here,
The day of vengeance now is near.
For like the tree it new doth stand
Between the serpent and the man;
And this the /woman must decide,
The way she fell and was betray'd,
And how she did draw in the man,
Must be decided by her hand;
And by her hand it doth appear
The day of vengeance now is clear
To cast it on the serpent's head,
And rpake him prove the words he said,
That they as gods should now appear,
And good from evil discern clear."
£39
Digitized by
:Jdy Sixth Book .w
ill treat, chiefly,of, die 'Ray of
Judgment. For, i$ VW
tten, the' saints
mustJudge the earth,.
‘it never entered the’heart: of
m
an what is m
eStti; ijfo
rh
d
Wthey will heartneSpirit
oftheLbi*dsneakinginthewomanineveryageqf the
- world; how shebrought forth the good fruit, and
m
an‘always destroyed it by theevil fruit; and nbw
i
it te diesam
e. *And were.took andsinful rpeu t,osi£
in judgment on my Sixth Book, they would brfhjj
the day of vengeance bn them
selves, andnotbn the;
devil. W
ho was the authorof all oursorrow
s.,Ther&
fore it k well form
ankind; (hat this m
ust bejudgetr
by saints, who are m
en inspired,by theSpirit Of tfty
if
tord; for Satan would spefedily work in' fools’ td
*
cast'the fault on thewoman for the fall, and then
shemustcast1
'the blam
e on n
*»n for crucifying bet
Son,"W
ho W
as born by the Holy Ghost; and s
Othe
arts of‘the devil W
ould,free himself .by working ix
i
. ihehearts of fools, an
d. brrpging de^tfuction^n the
iphole- hum
ad. face, ;For as it is ndw c&st.by m
en,
.ifo lthmSt stand for ever, ' 'therefore m
en, who are
hot inspired by the Spirit of the Lord; are not.fit tp
sit in judgment on these things.
240
As some mm ffave sent me tetters unthinkingly without
paying thepostage, I -begleaveto remark,that teerel to defray
the expense of au4nyietters, I should sOine weeks have to pay
nine or ten shillings; an expense, amsorryto say, I amnotca~
pabkot discharging. I. have therefore lo reoues(, that allw r it .'
ten cqmmwncatiorss. .oddressey toj)iefie mjuiufe postpaid, at'
which I trust no bpe will feel offended. , .. '"*
Dec. l, 1803;; . v. ‘. JOANKA SGtTTHCOlX
LaUQOP,,.......
Printed byW. Maechant, Grtftttfe. Street; and t y J.F ikl* No
. 139,
near Bloomsbury CoUrt, High HoJborn; W% <?b*pel Place, Duke
Street* Westminster Road, Sou'tbwark>
. also by IV. Symonds, {fcuidy
Lane;and the Miss EvtLKioss, St. Sidweir*, Ureter;S . H i * st, Leeds;
J. M iddihtojj, York j add J ames L ight, Coventry Street, Stourbridge^
Wurce*tershire.
Digitized by G oogle * ,-A
: The Strange Effects o f Faith ;
WITH
MADE IN 1792,- &C. ' ‘ ! I-
Of Things which are to. come,
____ <
1
SIXTH PART.
I
SH A L L begin this book with the Judgment-
Day for Man. . *
• • -i
' It is written, the Saints must judge the earth,
from the foundation o f the world— 1* And .this
century (the first in the 1900th before it is com­
pleted) is fixed for man to sit In judgment, to
‘‘judge .between m e and my vineyard. *Therefore I
have called by my Spirit, and by the mouth o f -ail
my prophets: Come, let us reason together, saith
the Lord ; though your sins are as scarlet, I will
make them as white as snow. Turn unto me,
and I will turn unto you, I will heal your backsli-
tlings, and love you freely. For now be astonished,,
Q earth! I have a controversy with my people:— and
as. the echo o f verse gives the sound o f one line to
another, so have I, by m y spirit, echoed back in
verse to the words o f man. O simple and foolish
B
llic third Edition, prmtod in October, 1808.
by W. Aiarcbant, Greville Street, London,
from the fir#t Edition, printedJan. 180?.
Entered at Ststioqer'it
Hall*
Digitized by G oogle
generation ! from the fall o f man to this day, what
iniquities have you found in m e , that you seek af-
ter other gods to your hurt? You blame m e for
giving the woman power to answer all her contro­
versies with you. For now I will pull down, and
raise up ; I will kill, and make alive ; I will wound,
and I will h eal; I will destroy, and I will save; I
will establish my covenant I made with man at
first.' The spirit o f deep sleep hath been upon you,
and wisdom’s words have been sounding in your
ears ; but ye have put sweet for bitter, and bitter
for swept*; >ye have called good evil? and evil go od ;
and, like Jacob’s sons, all hath appeared a pleasing
dream unto those that believe or see any form or
comeliness in the words before them.
But now, as I have told you, the saints must
judge the1earth, I shall come to that purpose, and
lay before you the manner in which they must judge
•Ire earth,— when they hear the voice o f the Spirit o f
the Lord speaking in the woman, in every age o f the
world, both*to men and devils. To men, because
they always destroyed the good fruit, as soon as it
cam e; or rose up in anger against it. This has
been in every age o f the w orld; but now every
thing hath got its tim e; and bounds are fixed for all.
lie that said to the proud waves o f the sea, hitherto
shalt thou go, and no farther, hath fixed his bounds
for man. And now I will come to reason with
man. Suppose I had never made the woman; and
man had stood in perfect obedience at first; do you
vainly imagine the devil would use no other arts to
betray 'man, as he did /the angels in heaven, who
gave themselves up to his temptations ? Would
not Satan find the same way to work on them
now, if there was no woman ? Sodom and G o-
242
Digitized by G oogle
morrah will rise up in judgment against mankind,
who blame the Lord for giving the' wom an; for
their sins were not with woman, but men with
men, for which they were destroyed : and this sin
the devil would tempt man to commit, if there was
no woman in the world, and dust had increased
as worms in'the earth, or as worms increase by the
breath o f a fly ; for by the breath o f my mouth I
would increase a whole race o f mankind. And had
this been the case, do you not think the same sub­
tle arts that infused rebellion into the angels in hea­
ven, would infuse rebellion into men on the earth ?
I f the whole world was rendered a paradise unto
them, Satan would soon find a way to . swell their
pride, that the servant w ould. be greater than his
m aster; and the very men who gave themselves
up to disol>ey the laws o f God, and rise up in re­
bellion against his prophets, would rise up against
those men who lived in innocence, and earth would
soon become in the same rebellious state that hea­
ven was, when the devil influenced the angels to
conceit they were great and mighty, and ought to
worship no superior power. Thus he began iji
heaven, and thus would he begin upon earth ; and
man, whom I created, must have been cast for ever
with the devil and fallen angels that listened to him.
Therefore know, O vain man ! tjie very way you
think I placed every thing for your destruction,
was placed for your redemption : as every art o f
Satan was known to me, I therefore laid my plan to
catch him in a net by his own fe e t; and to cut him
down with his own weapons, to prevent man from
perishing everlastingly. For I well knew, if I
made man flesli and blood, and let him fall a prey
to the wrath o f the devil for ever, he would say
with Cain, my trouble is greater than I can bear;
245
Digitized by G oogle
therefore I felt for man, whom I had created to in*
herit this life.
But as this might cause doubts to arise in men’s
hearts, and they might question, why I made man
so subject to the arts o f the devil, that the powers ’
o f darkness should have any power to tempt him?
I answer: How could I prove I had created a bet­
ter race than fallen angels, if man was not liable to
the same temptations as they were. Now answer for
thyself, O man ! wherein my ways are unequal, to
deal justly with men, and devils that fell from glory?
Y o u complain o f being tried and tempted. Have
not the just suffered tire same temptations, and v
much greater persecutions? For not. saints, but
sinners have always judged and condemned the
saints; but now the scenes are changed : and the.
saints must sit in judgment on the bench o f justice
between m e and my tineyard, between ray dealings
with men and devils, and the justice o f my sentence
on aH flesh. For if tire just, in every age o f the.
world, fell a prey to the unjust, will you say my
ways are nbw unequal, to give it up to tile ju d g­
ment o f the ju st? O ye foolish and unwise! were
ye left to sit in judgm ent on this great judgment-
day, who fear not God, nor discern his footsteps,
ye would soon bring the day bf vengeance on your
own heads ; and, being blind leaders o f the blind, y e
would fall into the ditch together. For Satan would
soon fill your weak heads, that it was some cunningly
devised fable o f the woman, to clear her faU, and,
cast it on the devil; and so ye would do as the,
people o f old did, who heated tire furnace seven times
hotter than usual, to burn themselves by coming
near it. For Satan would, soou cast a film over:
your eyes to make ye blind ; and, under pretence of
244>
Digitized by G oogle
taking it away again, would say, this was a film
that was laid before you, and so make you stark
blind.
And now I will answer men, after the manner o f
men. I f children were now their own carvers,
they would cut their fingers: and men would
make as great a sacrifice o f themselves for thd
devil, as I made for man on the cross; for as this
is cast by man, so it must stands for ever. For’
now are the sons o f God coming to present them­
selves before the L o rd ; and should Satan com e:
amongst them, I will answer him in the woman.
Now trace all my footsteps back, and see how F
have directed to- bring it to trial for just men to-
sit in judgment on it. Where is the man who can
condemn, when from my Spirit the church hath been'
warned by tby hand ? And where are thy accusers,'
or those who- have compelled thee to stay thy hand P
Or, who have called for justice? or, who have pleaded
for truth ? None, but my servants, whom I have"
chosen; none but my people, in whom I d eligh t;’
who have strengthened the hand that hangs down,
and confirmed thefeeble knees; who have said to
the feeble mind, be strong; who have added to-
their faith, virtue; to virtue, brotherly kindness;,
to brotherly kindness, charity; charity towards
God, and charity towards man. And the ways o f
-good men are ordered by the L o rd ; and I, the
Lord, have established their goings; for their feet
are shod with the preparation of the Loj-d;’ and I,
the Lord, work in the hearts o f my people, to will
and to do o f my good pleasure.
94*
Digitized by
/
And now remember what I told thee at first,
that they should be a willing people io the day o f
my power; for I have hearkened and heard what
each man has §aid to his brother ; and they shall be
mine in the day I make up my jewels; and 1 will
spare them, as a man spateth his own son that
serveth him. For I was hungry, and they gave
H£ meat; thirsty, and they gave me drink ; naked,
and they clothed m e ; in prison, and they admi­
nistered unto me : for as much as they have done
it to the least of my disciples^ they have done it
unto me. Thou hast been hungry, and they gave
thee meat, and thou livest now on their bounty ;
thou stoodest in want of clothing for thy father,
when he died, and they have sent clothing unto
thee. My other friend is in prison,, and they have
administered unto him; that is, by their writings
they are trying to deliver him. Now all this is
done unto me ; for it is by me, and through me, ye
axe both come to poverty and want. Now all this
is done, that the Scriptures might be fulfilled : and
now cometh the end— Come, ye blessed children of
my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you
from the.foundation of the world. For 6uch men
as these were my disciples; and had they been in
my days, they would have followed me, as my disci­
ples did ; and those who mocked in these days, are
such as mocked in my days.
And now, ye fools, who despise prophecies! was
it not for prophecies, how could I try all men in
the end r How could I bring a blessing on my
friends, or how could I bring a curse on mine ene­
mies, if I was not to try them by prophecies, as the
prophets were tried r For I said, all the righteous
blood should come on this generation, from the
246
Digitized by G oogle
blood o f righteous Abel, unto the blood o f Zachariah
son o f Barachiah, whom they slew between the tem­
ple and the altar.
N ow the blood o f all has fallen'on the Jews ; and
was it not for prophecies, how could I try the Gen­
tiles ? for I shall deal alike with both. And now I
shall try a ll; and it must come back on all that
mock tne prophets o f the Lord. For now I shall
begin with man, and end with the d e vil: for now
he hath tried men upon earth, as he tried the angels
in heaven; and he hath found men as firm in their
worship to God, as the angels were in heaven; and
those whom he has drawn away, he does not find
so firm to him, as the angels were that fe ll: when
men see him, they hate him. But how could I do
justice to fallen angels, if I had not given them a
fair trial upon earth o f the power they wanted ? I
knew their nature, or I never should have cast them
out o f heaven. But would they not say, I judged
them, wrong, if I had not proved the truth o f my
judgments ? So all shall find I am clear when I
judge, and just when I condemn. Mercy, men
will find, is my darling attribute ; judgm ent is my
strange work.
N ow I have shewed you my strange works in
creation and preservation. That in creation all the
arts o f hell were known to me ; and I placed ail for
man’s redemption; he being pronounced dead, un­
der the fall, as to the knowledge o f God, man hath
room to look for redemption in and through the me­
rits o f his Son, who took upon him the nature o f
man, and found the devil had confidence enough to
tempt the Lord his God. Then was I not clear he
Would tempt man, in a state o f innocence, to wor-
247
Digitized by G oogle
*
ship Him, and offer him the kingdoms o f the earth,
as he offered m e ? But how fatal must have been
man’s case, if he had fallen in that manner ! to
rebel against the Lord that formed him, and sent
every blessing unto him: then he must have fallen
like the rebellious angels, and have perished like
them ; but herein I have laid my plan to redeem
Iran from the power o f darkness. When they see
the evil o f their Ways, and turn unto m e , I will
turn unto them, and plant them into the noble
v in e ; for I am the root, and they shall be the
branches. But if they reject my voice, and despise
my just dealings; I will cut them off from the vine.
Sq now hearken and hear, all ye families o f the
earth !: I have begun, and will go on, till judgment
is turned into victory.
248
Tire following lines were explained to me, from
Jeremiah, chap. ii. verse -21, 22, and Zephaniah,
chap. iii. verse 15.
“ Y e t I had planted thee a noble vine, wholly a
rig h t seed : how then art thou turned •into a dege~
nerate p lan t o f a'strange vine unto me ?.
‘*+For though thou wash thee w ith nitre, and take
thee much soap, yet thine iniquity is marked before
me, saith the L o rd G o d ”
“ The L o rd hath taken aroay thy judgm ents, he
hath cast out thine enem y”
These two chapters were shewn to me by a friend,
who -had opened the Bible at the above-mentioned
places, wishing to know if my writings were from
the Lord. They were much distressed in mind on
reading the first verses, fearing the judgments were
pronounced against themselves, but found comfort
__ Digitized by
^Google
on reading’ the last. Those passages were ex­
plained to me in the following manner.
“ I will put away these judgments from those that
believe; but all these judgments will fall on those
that do not believe: lo r the Gentiles were planted
a noble vine, a pure and right seed. But how can
they be called noble, that despise the very thing that
makes them noble ? To make them noble, is to
cast the enemy o f the Lord. All these judgments
will fall on them that despise this calling.
So 'tis your land hath this to fear,
What to their sight I then brought near;
But thosethat tremble at my word
Will find the goodness of their Lord,
To put these judgments all away—
O -------- !---- *
— ! this I say,
That as this chapter doth appear,
You all may hope, and all may fear*
If like thy friends they do begin,
To say, they fear from what they've seen;
Then all these fears I'll put away;
Thesejudgments will not come to ye*
But if these things ye do not fear,
But say, “ We're nobly planted here;
“ For Christ hath plac’d in us the vine,
“ And nitre in his blood doth shine
" To wash away our every guilt,
H And 'twas for us his Blood was s p i l t *
Then all these washings will not do;
My Blood I never shed for you;
And all your snap will be in vain,
To wash away your everystain:
And let the stain of ip&n appear,
And then I’ll fully answer here*
At first my honour man did stain,
And with his Maker did contend,
That it was I brought on his guilt,
To give the woman, as he felt
c
840
Digitized by G oogle
250
A change in him that did appear:
He did not say “ The serpent there .
“ Tempted the womau for to take,
“ And I with her the laws did break ;
Because lie said, we should not die,
“ But soon as gods appear to be,
“ And good from evil for to know ;
“ We eat the fruit the truth to shew
•* We had no knowledge of a lie, -
i ( As he declar’d we should not die;
€t Nor do we know how he could speak,
u Unless thy power did undertake
“ To make him speak in words so clear."
Then they'd condemn'd the serpent there,
And from his power man must die.
This is a mystery, thou dost cry;
Because his knowledge must be dead ;*
Man knew not how his arts were laid. .
But here, thou say'st thou’rt puzzled more,
How Satan all the blame must bear: }
If both on him had cast the blame,
Thou say'st, to man what death could come ?
Why then the death must been to sin,
And know the evil he had done ; .
And dead to all his powers he’d be,
As the good fruit was on the tree.
Which I would give them both to tqste,
And then the serpent must be cast.
But here, thou cr/st thou’rt stumbled more.—
Could I not then in man appear .
That very way to cast the blame,
And put the serpent tfien to shame ?
Yes, so I know it could done ;
1 might in power then work’d in man,
And never left him tohis will;
And so th& serpent’s heart to chill. ' .
But then his arts I well did know,
And how he meant to cast the.blow,
From which I’d meant to screen the man;
No will nor power was in him ;
For in them both I then did rule : .
His arts are more than man can tell;
Therefore I left them all alone, *
And Satan form’d himself in man,
And quickly cast the blame on me.
I took my challenge then from he.
Digitized by G oogle
That if 'twas so, I’d bear the^lame;
And to the woman next I came,
Who cast it on the serpent's head,
And to the root the axe was laid,
And to the root it now must come;
For r il begin to answer man:
I gave the serpent up his will,
To work in man, my heart to ch ill;
And all his will for man did bear,
Until the} pierc'd m e with a spear.
So Satan he had every will,
And all my friends their hearts did chill.
But had these things come all from man,
M y Blood must sure been spilt in vain,
And brought on man a more sad curse,
And man for ever must been lost—
And lost for ever man must be,
If I've «o friends the truth to see, #
That when 1 have gone through the whole-,
It next on Satan so must fall.
So here you see is a noble vine,
To take my challenge for mankind,
When he in man so proudly spoke,
And instantly in man did mock,
To say, the woman I gave he
Had given the fruit forbade by me ;
And so by her he disobey'd,
And so on me the blame was laid.
I answer'd then the blame I'd bear,
And in the held I would appear;
But knew my second then must come
To take the sword out of my hand
And plunge it in the rebel's heart,
And so turn back the every dart.
If justice did ray Blood demand,
To take my challenge from his hand;
Then sure my second now must come,
And plunge the dagger back again ;
And say, “ My Lord was not to blame;
“ From Satan all the mischief came,
“ Who first betray'd me with a lie,
“ I was not then pronounc'd to die*
u And good from evil I should know,-
•
*And every lie from Satan flow,
u Which brought my Lord upon the tree,
“ And bore the death pronounc’d for me.
251
Digitized by G oogle
u And since for me he did appear/
“ His Father's promise must be dear, »
“ That all thy lies must braise thy head,
“ If I've an advocate to plead.
“ Therefore my cause he now will plead,
“ And bring his Blood upon thy head ;
“ Or he mustbring it all on mine,
“ For hearkening to the lies of thine.
“ It was itiy sins that made him bleed,
“ For hearkening to the lies thou'stsaid,
" And so the sword went through my soul;
“ And wilt thou triumph over all ?
** Then I must have no foot to stand,
“ Nb advocate is nigh at hand;
“ No Father's promise for to claim;
“ M y Saviburis Blood wassail in vain;
“ And ^must sink beneath the curse,
“ If now my Father’s words do miss,
“ To have my seed to bruise thy head;
“ M y Father's words are all my stead,
M And trust his words be will fulfil,
“ And irot uphold the murderer still* •
As Satan first a murderer came,
“ He knew'thht death was in the name
“ O f eating the forbidden fruit; ’ *
“ He cast his eyes so near the root,
“ While I in ignorance did appear,
“ And of his arts was unaware.
I knew no attgfeh that had fell;
I knew no arts that came from h e ll;
“ I knew no power that could appear,
“ But what came from my Maker dear;
“ And all I thought must then be good,
“ As 'twasr pronounced by my God.
And in that shape thou didst appear,
“ In what was gbod, pronounced there;
“ And good to evil thou didst bring,
u And in the serpent plac'd a sting,
“ Whereby thou stung'st me to the soul;
“ For of my children, I know, all
“ That were like Abel, met a Cain,
u And so my Lord the same did find,
“ Thus, like a champion in the field,
“ He took'his challenge, and did yield
“ To bear the blow that thou hasft given,
u And now his triumph is in heaven.
Digitized by G oogle
* That he did die to conquer a ll;
4
<Then sure I know his sword must fell
4
4For he to give it to my hand,
“ And vengeance now for to command. •
“ As he hung bleeding on the tree,
4
4M y Lord and Saviour dy’d for me—
“ Tis thee and I must bear the blame;
4
t His murder sure from us did come.
4
4Sa take the weapon in thy hand,
4
i And now thy challenge I will stand*
“ A coward thou didst first appear;
“ The weakest vessel thou saw’st clear
“ Was took from man— one single bone,
“ Not formed in power like his own;
“ And so advantage thou didst take,
4
i In coming like a poisonous snake,
4
1 To rob my soul of every bliss,
4
4And poison all my unborn race.
“ So on thy belly thou must come,
4
4Thoust not one foot to stand upon,
4
i To say thou actest like a man
4
4O f honour and of honesty.
4
4I ask what challenge thou canst give,
4
4To answer for thy base design ?
“ Such coward prove to me and mine,
4
4To cheat my soul with such a lie
4
4As caus’th my chiktan for to die,
4
4By reason of thy cursed sting i
4
4And now to reason I'll begin:
“ Did heaven create me for thy spoil f
4
4Create a race for thee to foil,
4
4That hath no footing here to stand ?
4
4How dar'st thou interfere with man ?
4
1 O r didst thou the world ever form ?
4
4O r didst thQu e’er create the man,
44O r take the partner from his side ?
u How darist thou ever rob the bride
4
4O f innocence that there was plac’d ?
4
4 I know my Lord I did disgrace,
“ By listening to the arts of thine :
4
4And now with shame I must resign
4
4To own his anger then was just; *
4
4And so my grief did ever burst,
4
4From age to age his anger bear,
4
4The weaker vessel full of care,
4
4While thou didst triumph in my grief;
4
4But now my Lord will give relief,
Digitized by G oogle
mTo place the weapon in my hand,
4
CAnd as thy challenger to stand,
4
4And justice I may now demand.
u And now I ask how thou'lt appear ?
iC Thou robb'st thy God, thou robbest me;
u This world was never made for thee.
“ Then Jiow cam'st thou to interfere,
4
4Unto God's footstool to appear,
4
4To rob the footstool of thy God,
4
4When all he had pronounced good !
“ Yet good to evil thou didst turn,
4
4And did thy God impose upon;
4
4Then well thou may'st impose on me ;
4
4The weakest vessel thou didst see,
“ Which good from evil did not know,
4
4And by thy arts received the blow,
4
4Which I've a right to return back,
4
4As I the evil fruit did pluck.
4
4And now thy lies I'll make them good,
“ And know that evil in thee stood,
4
4And all thy arts I well do know;
4
4And back on thee I'll cast the blow;
" For well I know thou canst not stand,
4
4To give the challenge from my hand.
4
4Could'st thou no better arts command
4
4Than like a serpent to appear,
4
4With lies that thou could st never clear t
i( And yet I now will clear them all,
4
4And from thy mouth thou nowmust fall.
4
4Thou saidst the evil I should know;
4
4And now the truth I'll prove it so;
u For every evil is in thee,
4
4And so thou hang^t upon the tree,
4
4And all the good with it was plac'd,
4
4And so the first must come at last;
u And so my Lord he did appear,
4
4As on the cross, I may compare,
4
4That it was taken from a tree— ‘
4
4Thou bad'st me pluck that fruit forthee,
„ 4
4To fill my soul with envy here,
4
4To turn on thee 4he fatal spear :
4
4And so thou bad'st me pluck the rod,
4
4To prove, when I did know my God,
4
4Him lshould love, and thee should hate;
4
4And so thou bad'st me pluck tby late;
254
Digitized by G oogle
For if my God I now do know ;
4
4He promis’d to turn back the blow.
“ So where’s the honour thou c&nst boast,
“ But like the serpent lick the dust,
4
4And on thy belly for to come ?
4
4Thou hast no foot to stand upon ;
4
4For all thy words did thee condemn.
4
4For well 1 know my God is good,
4
4And mercy unto me has shew'd,
4
4To keep me from thy every power,
4
4Or else my soul thou would’st devour.
4
4So here I own thon didst not lie ;
4
4The fatal truth was pluck’d by thee;
4
4And by thy words thou must be cast,
4
4And man’s redemption must be plac’d,
4
4As 'twas my heavenly Father's will
4
4Man’s happiness I should fulfil.
4
4And dost thou think to rob thy God,
4
4O f performing the words he said,
4
4Because thou hangedst on the tree ?
4
4Then know that fruit was pluck’d by me—
4
4And now 1say I’ll pluck the whole
4
4Till down the evil fruit shall fall,
4
4And then the good may all remain;
4
4And from thy words I’ll still maintain,
4
4That like as gods men may appear,
4
4The evil fruit I'll shew them clear,
4
4That thou didst bid me for to taste;
4
4I’ll shew thy arts, how all was plac’d,
4
4And then my judges let them come,
4
4I’ll take my trial first from man;
4
4And then discover which they’ll blame;
4
4’Tis me or thee they mast condemn.
4
4And now wilt thou in man appear,
4
4Thy innocence in aught to clear,
4
4To say thou art not justly cast,
4
4Then sure from hell such men must burst,
4
4And him I’ll prove an evil fruit,
4
4Who came from thee to save the root,
4
4From whence all mischief first did spring, .
4
4And on my Lord to cast the blame,
4
4Which he had got no right to bear;
4
4His innocence I now-will clear.
4
4If simply I drew in the man,
4
4
.And on my head the blame doth stand,
Digitized by G oogle
•
-
4
1Then I must throw it back on thine.
“ And now I bid thee look to Cain,
“ How soon a murderer he became.
“ I know thy power was in my Son;
“ For when the fruit did first appear,
“ Then good and evil I saw clear;
“ Then good was murder'd by thy hand :
“ And now let men the trial stand,
“ And see how they will now appear,
u Thy innocence in ought to clear. •
“ Then man roust say I am a devil.
u And all my nature it was evil,
u And so the woman now I'll blame,
■u As from her fall we so became.
“ Then from my fall I’ll answer here,
u An Abel will for me appear,
“ To prove I had not tainted all,
“ As the good fruit in him did tali.
“ So here's a child by me will stand,
* Though murdered by his brother's hand,
11To prove I had not tainted all. -
“ If I'm condemn'd, then man must fall; '
“ Fpr let my children all appear:
I've Moses and Elias here;
u I've all the prophets of the Lord
“ To prove the good fruit I have bear'd;
“ But as their murderers will appear,
Will roan condemn me them to clear f
" Then surely I'll condemn the whole,
“ And bring my seed before you all,
“ Because you murder'd then my Son,
“ That never was begot by man,
“ And in his mouth was found no guile.
* I ask you bow you him can foil i
*
* Perform the miracles he wrought,
“ By Beelaebub as you were taught f
“ From Satan's arts to fill your brain,
M He all these wonders did maintain.
“ Then now I bid you do the same,
“ Or else I'll put you all to shame. '
256
Digitized by G oogle
“ And prove the fault must fc in man,
“ Though you receiv'd it from ray hand;
“ And from my hand there did appear
“ All those that did reprove you there;
4
4 And from ray hand in Pilate's-hall,
“ You know I did reprovp you all,
4
4And told you then the man was just;
4
4 And if in me you say you'll tru^fc*
“ Why had you not my hand obey'd
“ And free'd the just, as then i said ? *
4
4If you will cast the blame on me,.
4
4For the bad fruit was on the tree,
4
4Why did you all refuse the good ?
4
4The prophet's blood is on your head,
“ The blood of Abel and of Cain;
“ And tell me if the fault was mine,
4
4That he his brother then did kill ?
4
4You men may judge this as you w ill;
4
4But I for Cain will answer now,
4
4Why he his bother Abel slew;
“ Because in him he saw the good :
4
<Then how can you the fault allude
4
<To say you'll cast the blame on me ? -
“ Then the good fruit was on the tree,
4
4 Which you was-eager to destroy,
“ The evil fruit for to enjoy.
4i For now I say I'll challenge man:
* When unto you in vice I came,
“ You all was ready and obey'd ;
4
4I'll bring my guilt upon your head,
“ Because you did refuse the good,
“ And to the evil you have stood;
4
4For Naboth you did place on high;
“ When I had robb'cl you did comply;
“ And ne'er no sin did I invent
“ But man was willing to consent:
“ I ’o murder, and adultery,
4
4To bid you sin, too soon you'd fly;
4
4One smile of mine, that came from hell,
4
* Would kindle flames in you to swell
“ Until you burst them all abroad,
“ And perish in the devil's road#
“ When I the prophet's blood did claim,
“ It soon was given me by men;
“ And there*s no vice that you withstood :
“ But always did refuse the good;
d ,
Digitized by G oogle
“ For when my children did appear,
“ And the good frujt in them was clear,
u Your murderoushaads destroyed them alk
4
4 The martyrs' blood I now shall call,
“ How they were cast into the flames,
“ And all the prophets I can name.
i ‘ So here's a challenge now for man:
* If on my head you cast the blame ;
“ Then I will cast the blame on you:
4
4 All vice that Ldid tempt you to
4
4 In every age was eager done;
4
4 And will you say you e’er did shun,
“ Because a Joseph there was found,
4
4 Reject my vice in every sound ?
** Then down my vice I say must'fall.
* 4 Had you wisely rejected all,
4
4 My every vice that I had plac'd
4
4 Your prisons had not you disgrac'd ;
4
4 But higher honour to you bring,
4
4 Exalted by you# heavenly King.
4
4 So here’s the fruit that's good to boasts
4
4 But by his brethren he was cast;
4
4 Then how will you say I'm to blame;
4
4 You hated good fruit when it came.
4
4 So now I bid thee answer, man,
4
4 If on my head thou cast the blame,
4
4 Why all my vices thou pursurdst, .
4
4 And all my virtues e'er withstood,
4
4 As things despised in thy sight ?
4
4 If I had children walk'd upright,
4
4 Thou sought-'st their lives for to destroy.
4
4 That I no comfort could enjoy
4
4 From the good fruit was on the tree.
4
4 If man condemns, then answer me,
4
4 And see what reasons you'll assign
44 For hating all the good was mine.
4
4 Had I no children for to boast,
4
4Wherein the good you see was plac'd;
44 Then you may sure condemn me all,
4
4 And say I brought the fatal fall;
4
4 But as I'll prove I'd many good,
4
4 You in their virtues might have stood.
4
4 But as you did not answer, man,
4
4 What made you lay such wretched plat),
“ To put my children all to death
4
4That I brought forth by noble birth ?
Digitized by G oogle
*5S
* You cannot say that came from m e;
4
4 From'Satan’s arts they fill did dee ;
4
4 And when to you he did appear,
44 You did no more discern it there
** Than I discern’d his arts at first;
4t And well 1 know, if I am cast,
4t The serpent will betray you all, *
41 And so mankind would surely fall >
4
4 For was no woman to be found,
4i I know that sin would now abound,
4
1 Unless you strike unto the root,
4
4 And men in silence must stand mute,
4
4 To say these reasonings now are just— 1
*
44 Wc own the serpent must be cast;
For if the good fruit does appear,
44 We know the evil fruit is near,
4
4 That surely doth from Satan come,
44 As on the tree the fruit did hang,;
M And he must hang upon the tree,
4
4 His poisonous blood destroyed must b e;
4
4 For now we know he cankers all,
44 And like the crocodile doth call,
44Till be secures men for his prey.
44 What to the woman can we lay,
4
4.When we see man as much deceiv’d
44 As she was then for to believe
44 That they as gods should surely he,
4
4By subtle arts that came from he ?
44 And he by arts hath man betray’d,
44 Or could mankind so wrong been led,
44 To put .the Bon of God to death I .
4
4 Consider what the woman -saith:
4
4The miracles that he had wrought,
4
4 By men nor devils could be taught;
u For ’iis uot all the powers of hell
4
4 Could act like him, we all know well,
4
4 Nor all the learned sons of men ;
44 For ,earth and hell may try iq vain ;
4
4 And all the powers we know would miss”—
4
4 And so pipud J^ucifer may boast
4
4 In simple fools that are so vain,
4
4 To think that hell in power could reign,
4
4 To turn the water into wine,
4
4 Give sight to him who was born blind,
4
4 Or yet the hungry thousands feed
4
4 With fishes few and little bread;
Digitized by G oogle
MAnd see what numbers did appettr,
‘♦ That by my son were feasted there;
u As you approve the Son 'Was mine,
“ And to your word* Fll now resign.
u But you affirm he came by man ;
u Then answer now my written hand,
u And in my Son in words 11! stand,
* And now will answer in his stead,
“ And in his name 111 now proceed:
w Did ever man to yon appear
u Such miracles* to woifc them here ?
" Yon say that Moses did the same,
w And turn'd the sea to be dry fend.*—
But know he was a type of me ;
These things were never wrought by he;
For it was I that wrought them aa,
And there my Spirit it did fal),
For to uphold his every hand;
The seas could ne'er been parted by man,
FTo more than man can now Appear
To do the wonders he did there;
So all these wonders came from me—*
And now the brazen serpent see, *
Who 6n the pole was lifted up,
And so my cross to you did. drop ;
For as a serpent on the tree
•Ye hung a t up, and nailed me :
A brazen serpent was your cry,
To say 1 came from Qod on High,
When from the devil you declare
My miracle* performed were.
So here's the brazen serpent plain,
As I from hell you did contend
Perform'd the miracles I wrought,
And boldly I my God did mock ;
Then boldly now I'H answer here, .
The living serpent did appear,
And gave you all such fatal sting,
And death upon you he did bring;
/ Because he stung you to the soul,
Despise the brazen serpent i ll;
Digitized by G oogle
For as the serpent was of brass,
With brazeh confidence you say,
That I assume the Son of God,
And by the serpent to you show'd
The miracles that I had done.
1 knew before what you would fonn,
And so myprophet lift me wp;
I knew your hearts how they would drop
Because your hearts I all had try'd-^-
The miracles were all deny'd,
That Moses skew’d you all before ;
Your golden calf did then appear,
And trusted to another god,
That Satan to your ear* had bor’d.
Now your forefathers all trace back,
And then you may behold the wreck
That brought your feta) destiny;
And the good fruit you all may see,
It always was despised by man—
Let Moses and Elias come;
Let all my prophets to appear,
You always did condemn them here.
Then now I ask where man can boast f
The good fruit you have always cast,
The evil fruit for to embrace, *
And so your Lord you did disgrace,
To say a bastard htfd uphold;
Let all my miracles be told,
They never could be work'd by man,
Nor work'd by all your hellish plan,
Whom you with Satan then agreed,
From men and devils that proceed*
But now I'll fully answer here;
Let men and devils now appear
And all my miracles perform;
Then you the Son of God may scorn;
But if these things you cannot do,
Let all be brought before your view,
And let your Beelzebub appear,
And see if he will answer here,
That he can work the same by man ;
Then I'll resign my every hand;
Digitized by G oogle
. »
Or let these empty fools appear,
Who said from hell they worked were,
For to call in a heathen land,
And make the Gentiles understand
There surely was a God in heaven,
By whom the promises were given,
He had a Son to do his will,
And made the woman to fulfil
What he at first did her design,
A helpmate great for all mankind,
And in the end complete his bliss.
And from her seed Til answer this:
Her seed is sown a noble vine,
To change your water into wine» •
That in my altar doth appear.
Let men and devils answer here:
If I'm a God that made the earth,
According as the Scripture saith,
Did I not know all this before,
The miracles that did appear
Would so bring in a heathen land
That to his Gospel they would stand,
And honour as the Son of God,
To wash them in his dying blood ?
Did I not know the heavenly form,
His death would be kept up by man;
And how to him they would appeal
His blood nor merit might not fail
To wash away their every guilt,
And say for them that it was spilt,
And mix his goodness with mineown,
And both in one address my throne,
And so address the Trinity,
One God united in the three?
Then now, ye fools! ye may appear
To say, u One God we worship here,
<
c And all his knowledge we allow."
Appear, vain roan, and tell me how
I gave such power unto man,
Who said he from n>y throne did come
If he had told you then a lie,
His miracles they all should die;
For I w o u ld n ot give it to m an
To m ix w ith m e u p on m y th ron e.
You know that Moses I forbade,
No worship to bis bones be laid,
261
Digitized by G oogle
And of his death you did not know,
Where to his body you might go;
Because you should not worship there ;
But now the mystery you see clear.
And now to David you must come :
Did he not tell you of the Son ?
And all the prophets did the same;
But will you say I never came
So perfectly as Isaac spoke ?
You know you all regard mb not,
Though.bruis’d for your iniquity,
In ca stin g first th e fa u lt on m b ,
And on m e laid th e b lam e of a l l ^
And Jews and Gentiles both I call:
From Noah's sons, you Jews appear;
Your fathers' nakedness is here;
And will you backward ever go
To cover all as they did do ?
Or will you like the elder come,
Their nakedness for to discern ?
Their all your sins I'll put away,
If ye the elder brother be,
Or like the elder brother see
Your fathers' nakedness to be;
The grapes have made your fathers bare;
The wine destroyed their senses there;
Your younger brothers were to blame,
To cover all your fathers' shame—
“ For how can we now cover here ?
“ He, drunk, with anger did appear
“ To cast a curse upon his son;
u For no great evil he had done
€
t To see his father so appear;
“ He only laugh'd, as we may here;
** And if our curse so soon must come,
u We are all lost, and all undone."
But here your reasoning thoughts may say,
“ The curse that was pronounced by he
“ Could never fall upon the son,
“ Unless the Lord had done the same"_
N o; here's a mystery that goes deep;
Had I not given up to it,
His words had never curs'd the son,
Had I a blessing sent to him, *
To baffle all his father's will.
But Jews and Gentiles now standstill—
263
Digitized by G oogle
This was a simple type of mca,
To shew when power was in his hand,
How he that power would instant rule.
And soon destroy his children all.
As Noah had me right obey’d,
And built the ark, as I had saidr
I gave hurt will, I gave him power,
And now you see the fatal hour,
When man in power began to rule,
How soon his anger let him tall
To ruin all his unborn race,
And every child thereby disgrace.
So no^pl ask what man can boast, *
When power in him by me is plac’d t .
In pride and passion he’d soon swell,
And send hie children that to bell.
Because offence he could not bear,
Too soon his anger did appear,
Which I in anger granted he,
That in the end you all might see
Man is unfit to have the power;
Their children they’d too soon devour, *
As Noah did unto his>son.
And now to reason I shall come:
If I like man should so appear,
To curse my children every where,-
Because that they have laugh'd at m
e, '
Like Noah's son you all would be;
And so you all would find a curse;
For Satan's arts in all are plac’d.
When I the world completely drown’d,
One upright man there sure was found,
Whom I preserved in the ark ;
But Satan never miss’d his mark,
And, like a ravenous beast of piey,
He watch'd roy children every way;
When I destroy’d the world of sin,
He study’d then how to begin
To make it bad as 'twas before,
Aud soon to Noah did appear,
To make him drunk at first with wine,
(This nakedness is in mankind)
Which was discover’d by the son,
And Satan quickly laugh’d in him,
His father’s anger for to heat, ‘
And so for both he laid his net,
Digitized by G oogle
a&
To catch the simple inhts snare—
I ask what woman then was there?
You all may answer, you reed none;
The father and the sons alone;
No sooner 'scap'd out of the snare,
Not perish'd with the deluge there, ‘
Than all together they begin,
By Satan's arts, to fall in sin;
For when the father curst theson,
You know not how his heart did burn,
And thought his father so unjust,
Such heavy sentencefor to cast.
So sin and anger did abound,
Though all the world of sinners flrowtfd
But still there was the man of sin,
With all his poisonous darts within,
To pet the hearts on fire for hell;
And so his mischief ever will,
While in tins world he has got power
He studies the unwary to devour.
For should I now in wrath appear,
And burn the stubble every where, ,
And set this world all in a flame,
Andeave no ipore than fear my name,
I know that fear would not abound ;
Too soon the tempter would be found
To works by artsAnd to betray,
And draw my children fast away.
Trace aU the judgments I have sent.
In ages past that have been penned,
And yet.the world is full of sin;
And now to reason I'll begin:
The Jews &proved) they <
k
>stand,
And scatterd now from land to land,
Without a house, withouta home,
That they canboldty call their own;
And there's no nation they can boast
That is their own; the/re so outcast,
Apd all their judgments they do see, .
And yet they do not live to m i,
According astheir law was plac'd
But live in sin, like aU the test.
A
Digitized by G oogle
I know their arts, I know their Res,
And how to cheat they'll all disguise r*
I know the form they all do make.
And know the truth they all forsake,.
And all my judgments are in vain,
While Satan's arts in man do reign;
I see no peace there will appear,
While Satan's witchcrafts are so near,
Until I rid him from the coast,
And then may man in virtue boast.
So let the Jews for to appear,
And my demand to answer here,
And say they worship now one God,
As it was written by his word ;
And say their conscience now is clear,
They do not lie, nor-do they swear,
ITiey do not cheat, they do not steal,
My sabbath they do never fail
To keep it holy to their Lord;
They love and fear their only God, . .
And by the law their conscience free,
No sin they do commit 'gainst m e ;
But perfect as my lawshave stood,
They live in all things perfect good,
Ana upright men they say they be
In every law was given by m&.
Now if these things theyall can clear,
They need to Iwiwana Saviour here,
For their transgressions to atone,
If they can prove that they have none.
But live as men before their Lord,
That have each evil word abhorr'd;
For by ray law they are not free,
Unless their lives so upright be;
And if their conscience how is clear,
To say, “ No sin in us appear;"
Then they do want no Saviour’s blood,
If in my laws they've perfect stood;
But if their conscience do condemn—
“ We broke the laws that thou hast nam'd
Then now I say I'll break them all,
And vengeance shall upon them fall,
Unless they instantly do turn,
And see the evil they have done:
“ We have no merit for to plead,
“ If that our sins are on our heads;
S66
Digitized by G oogle
u In guilt we know we most appear,
“ Unless our Saviour comes to clear;
“ And this we have been waiting for,
“ Thinking he would for us appear,
**To be our prince, to be our king,
4
4And David’s throne to us he’d bring.”—
Then read your Bible back once more,
And answer ail my questions here, '
And tell me whowas crucify’d,
To bear the sin of man, that dy’d, ,
And you regard it not at all,
When I did bear the blame for all;
And who was smitten then of God,
And bore for man the fatal load, .
That bore the burden for you all,
That from the woman then did fall.
I answer now, ye sons of men, .
These things by man could not ha done;
Had I not blinded then your eyes ; .
Could man the Son of God despise,
To put him to so shameful death i
Consider what the Scripture saith;
If you had known what you had done,
You all must with the devils come;
For how the man could I e’er free f
No war was kindled then for me,
As angels kindled it in heaven.
And how could men be e’er forgiven, .
If they had known what they had done—
To crucify God’s only Son ?
But as their blindness did appear,
Because man’s blame I said I’d hear,
As man did cast the blame on m i ;
But here’s my travail all shall see,
Wherein my soul is saiisfy’d, '
To see the woman's claim appl/d ;
How roan will clamour for bis blooc^
And say that promise always stood;
And when that promise 1 fulfil,
The serpent’s heart I then must chill,
And all these things must bruise bis head,
And fdl in public must be laid. .
Tor here’s the Judgment-Day for man,
To judge tie .earth how all doth stand**"*
And those that can’t afford to buy,
I know # y fiends will give away;
*67
Digitized by
)yG oogle
'\VbenAeyh*vep»u\litcifttdfrom heaVert,
Unto the public •twill bo giVen;
And then men's hearts I soon shall fry, '
And fo
L
a
emy arrows they shall By\ "
For if men ndw do mock tho *
They soon shall find my flittering sword, '
To out the rebels to the heart,
That wiU not no# tarn bark the daft; '
For every mystery Til make clear,
And prove (he Day of Jadgmentfs here, *
Wherein the samHi triust judge theearfh*
According at the Scripture saith,
Spoke by the Spirit and fhe Bride y
And all my lows'drd here apply^d,
And every law I'M now trace good;
1 bought your iwa&dm, ass l said, ’
Upon the fatal Ouraed Me ;
Did Satan pluck the fruit for at,
Or tempt the woman so to do?
’Bring all the mysfefries to your view,
How in die garden alt wte plac'd,
And than dktfcrUhow all **5 cast ?
The good and evil fruit hung there; ,
The serpent's arts did soon appear,
To tempt the Woman it to take,
And eat the fruit, iriy laws *> brtafc;
And boldly i wvppwrVI ra man
To answer theA the fault was nride, ‘
To make the woman to appear ;
And well I knewhe mock'd ft* there:
But was the power in Satan's hand ?
l)id 1 not know hodr all did stand,
That if the woman be betray'd,
In her Td safety briiiad lift head ?
And now in bet I W
iU appear,
And all her promises shall clear,
That she'* a right for todemand;
And how the trial she must stand,
And shew the evil and the good,
And ask to which you'll rtoSf allude,
To plUdk the whole fYoiU Off the tree,
That nought but goodfruitfhefe mu* he.
Fortoher hand ra how resign,
' Atfd tell a t if the frtuft was mine,
To give the W
oman to VOur baUd,
Because theserpeiit didcomtnkptl
Digitized by G oogle
For her to pluck the evil frqft ?
And now she strikes it to the root \
And let mankind as close obey
As Adam did/tbet very day;
Then I no more the man will Wanie,
If he with her alike condemn,
And say the woman I had given;
He saw it wisdom then in heaven
To take the partner from his side,
Whom God in wisdom calls the bride* *
And as the serpent did appear *
To rob the bride, as yon see clear,
Your laws will now condemn the man
That robs your wives and so become -
For to bring in a bastard race,
And so your families disgrace; f
But if the woman frfee consents, ,
And with the man is fully bent
With her betrayer tor to go*
Divorcement you’ve a right Unto; •
But if by afrts she is betray’d,
And no deceit in her was laid, ' ~
As he at first’ had made her blind, '
And drown'd her senses, for to find ;
A way to gOt admittance there,
And every truth she shewed you dear,
And you should prove as blind as shc^ ■
And m like manner to agree ^
There was no evil in the man; -
You see no arts in him could come, *
When both alike you were Betray'd,
When all is dear before you laid ; ~
And if the bride do first condemn,—* ^
Jt By arts I was impos’d upon ; - ^
H For now his arts I plain do SeO, : * *
" By all hisarts1for to rob ine, ' ^
u Is all the gold hfe offer'd hero ; - :
4i And all his arts 1now see d
e
a
r
4t Is for to seefk my overthrow, r
** Is all his friendship now I, know.** ' '
Now if the W
ife- doth this see dear,’ ' ;
And then ifiscetn his evdy snate;; : 1
1
Then if in violence he goes off,
I ask the husband how he'll stand
For to support a faithful bride,
When aU the arts of man she laid
Digitized by G oogle
So clear and open to hk view,'
Despise the sins ke did tempt her to * ,
'Will not the husband feel alarm'd,t -
To keep his wife from future harm,
And jealousy within him burn ? t
And now to reason I shall come;
A man of honour will appear, .
Condemn the man* his wife to clear,
And from his house he will forbid
A maa that doth with arts proceed,
To rob the virtue of his bride,.
When she the whole before him la^d^ .
So now your Bibles you trace back ;
For in that manner I have spoke,
From age to age, I say, to man,
And to that purpose now I’ll come;
For all the arts of Satan here,
I in this manner may compare,
And those that freely do consent,
To say, “ Our minds are fully bent
4
4 With this betrayer for to go ; •
44We do not wish his overthrow ;
4
4 His ways and arts we love too well, '
u To have him banish’d down to heiL”
Then like a husband, now I say.
Such brides I all will put away ;
And^Moses' laws I’ll now fulfil,
And'allsuch brides their hearts I’ll chill;
For my divorcemeut now shall come ;
And this you’ll find in every land ;
For mark the words I said before,
That li'ke a bridegroom I’ll appear; /
And as a bridegroom now I’ll be
O f honour and fit honesty; *
But if my brides do now complain, .>
(For men and women both 1 mean,) *
That Satan like a man appears.
With every art invented here, i . -
To rob their hearts and steal away,,. •
And like,lhese, treacherous kpa^ft doth iay
In every aiphush for the bride, ...
I am the fo^band x¥)w apply’d,
*27®
Digitized by G oogle
That will take vengeance ot ypur-jiL*
'Some men of honour they did kill. >
Suph>raen,j£ did lysplt their wife,
To rob her of a virtuous life; ;
An<l now such man 1*11 surely be, • -
O f honour and of honesty, ■
And shew my r^ge throughJealousy,.
As men by jealousy have done; .-
And to that purpose now I’ll come, -
To free my brides that do complain, -
(I speak of women and of men ;) -
For Dinah's brethren ; all shall see,
Are now within the heart of me.;
And as the elders did appear,
I say again Susannah’s here.
Just so the devil, 1 do know,
By vile arts seek your overthrow; •
And those he cannot tempt to un,
1 know-his.malice burns within,
And what false witness he doth bear
Against my brides that ^hunn’d him here
And now the mysteries all Til clear,..
As in thy heart tjiou dost coipploin,;
These mysteries all do shew thee plain,
That if I now would act like man*
The serpent’s ruin now must come;
For where’s the man.that will appear •
To have his wife $o tempted here l .
If she to him slid but complain,
Tliou say’st he’d free her of her pain ;
Because his wife he would protect;
But here’s a mystery thou know’st not.
Let man with man now bold contend,
Uls wife’s a harlot lie’ll maintain, 1
And he can easily make her so;
The husband’s prudence may let go
His every art, to try awhile,
To see if he his wife can foil
liy any art he can. adopt;
And wh^n he finds that yain’s bis plot,
His love and apgor will arise .*
Against theman that did devise
Such wretched schemes to rob the wife;
And love and anger end the strife:
In love unto his wife declare,—
i%The villain’s arts, I now see ejear,
Digitized by G oogle
* Was but her virtue to destroy/ '
u That I no comfort might enjoy
“ With one whom I did love so dear ;
* But all his arts I now see d ear;
MAnd as a man of honour here
4
4I'll make the villain for to fly;
“ No more his honour he shall try,
“ As she with prudence hath withstood,
u These very arts that he pursu'd."
So this may be the case with man,
Where subtle knaves have laid such plan
Against the virtues of a bride;
And here the field is open wide—
No sooner had I form'd the man, '
Than Satan’s arts began to bora,
And said he'd cast them out of heaven—
And must the place they left be given
To such a foolish worthless worm, ^
Who like the angels soon would turn1
To rise against if B and rebel;
Or else with pride they soon would swell.
That they were gods as great as me,
And like the devils I should see
Mow in a short time they'd become }
I plac’d no better in their room,
Than what before I bad ca$t out,
And of th^ir virtues he did doubt *
I had not made a better race *
To fiH the fallen angels's place.
<So instantly he did complain;
,1 gave the trial then, like men,
Whose wisdom I have mention'd here;
’But now my brides I'll surely clear,
And like a husband now Fll come,
To clear a race that he condemns,
Whose virtues he has ever try'd,
As man by arts can try the bride.
There are no arts that man can use,
But Satan first did them infuse;
And there he thought that he could boast,
As they their virtues all had lost; v
And in his hands he had them there,
To t iy m y Children e v e ry w h ere.
And thus Met him to go on,
To shew what virtue was in man,
Whom he at first so much did scorn,
Taken from earth a simple wornu^
__QiQjtized b
)
/google
And now these worms he soon shall see
Are fit companions for to be
Join’d with the glorious heavenly host,
And in their virtues now I'll boast,
In w h at th ey 'v e suffer'd a ll for m e ,
And now a husband Yet him see.
My friends they did not fear to run,
When he infus'd the thoughts in some,
What dangers may fall on their head
For doiug as the Spirit said.
So here the tempter miss’d his aim,
And in the end you'll all see plain ,
Which way the tempter laid his. dart
To wound the men of upright heart.
For well I know the just will turn, -
And soon repent of what they've done;
And so the irysteries all will see,
What virtue in my children be,
And all my children gone before,
And all together you compare,
I'll prove I've made a better race
Than those that did in heaven transgress,
To fill tbe angels' vacant seats,
Enlarge the heavens in praises great;
For men and angels, they will join
In praises heavenly and divine,
And ray delight shall be in men ;
They'll find their love was not in vain,
To run such hazards for my sake,
And know their lives were at the stake.
So now, let all together come,
The dead their names I’ll raise to man ;
The evil fruit must disappear
\tflien I the bipod of At.el clear,
Who still for vengeance loud doth call;
So it must now turn back on all.
I tell all you that are like Cain,
The evil fruit have had their time;
And now I see they're dead-ripe come,
I’ll raise the winds and blow them down;
But as the good fruit do appear,
The wind and weather they can bear;
Because they are not dead-ripe grown,
And they will stand against the storm;
Besides in blossoms some appear,
I have much fruit to ripen here, .
F
979
Digitized by G oogle
And well I Itnow that it will stand,
And every bounds I fix'd for man. .
The evil fruit have had their time,
To pluck the food fruit that was mine ;
And some they pluck, and some they pull \
And now I say I'll shake the whole ;
And those that will not boldly stand.
And answer to thy written hand,
To say my sentence all is just,’
Like evil fruit shall all be cast. -
For now I'll turn it back on man,
If they do mock thy written h&nd,
The blood of Abel now shall turn,
And Cain shall perish in his room,'
And all the prophets’ Wood the same
I'll bring on those that mock my name.
As men the furnace did prepare
^For to destroy my children there;
~Just so HI heat it now for all *
That do despise the heaVenly caH ;>
An<Las the lions did appear,
The mockers shall in pieces tear;
For I will now preserve the good, *
As in the flames they firmly stood,
And in the lions' den were found
Preserv’d unhurt, though compass'd round
By hungry lions wanting prey;
And now like Daniel all shall be,
That do not fear the wrath of man ; _
Like Daniel now they all shall stand ;
For all the'days IVa now gone- through*
And sato the fruit how all did grow ;
And was my labour then in vain,
One thousand years to wofik with man,
From every day was mention'd here,
Till the six thousand <!id appear ?
Then see how near they all are up—
It was the sixth day I did drop,
To hang upon the cur&sd tree; -
Then sure that day must shorten'd bo,
From the sixth hour to the ninth—
Great is the mystery to mankind^
274
Digitized by G oogle
For as the ninth did then appear,
To change the darkness that was there;
So shall this century be for roan;
Their rocky hearts Til rend in twain,
And all the graves then now shall burst,
And raise the names of all the just,
Aqd range them all before your view,
And in their days the same you’ll do,
That do despise the calling here,
And on your heads shall all appear,
The blood of all that you have slain;
They all were murder’d by such men,
Who now appear these thiugs to mock,
And now. on them Til bring the stroke;
As down the kettle* then did fall,
You shall perceive Til bring on a ll;
But those who do not it despise,
My Blood, before them, as it lies,
Shall wash away their every guilt,
They’ll see their names though it was spilt;
Through all the dirt it will appear,
And then I say I’ll wash them clear;
But those that now do mock the call,
This caution I shall give to all,
That as the dirt does now appear,
x Your sins before me now are clear;
For in pne Spirit all was done;
And in. their days if you had been,
The prophets you’d have mock’d the same.
No greater Prophet ever came,
Since earth’s foundation it was plac’d,
And all yourselves you must disgrace, .
To think that e’er a woman’s hand
f Could give such challenge unto man,
And devils boldly challenge here,
If from her hand did all appear,
# Just as I had written, “ these things to mock,”
my meat, kettle, which was on the fire, fell suddenly
off, and in my Stooping to take it up, I threw my
writings before it, which involved them in smoke,
ashes, and w ater; fortunately, however, on getting
dry, I found no part o f them obliterated.
275
Digitized by v ^ o o Q i e
Her Wisdom must outshine you all,
If deeply you weigh her call;
And it' she does so wisely speak,
And men like adders mind it not;
Then men like adders will appear,
I know their sting, I know their epear;
But ill turn back their every sting,
And like a husband will begin,
In love and jealousy appear,
And on the mockers turn the spear,
» Who mock the virtues of the bride,
Whom men and devils both have try’d.
And yet in virtue she doth-stand.—
Answer the challenge from her hand :
Do I not know, do I not see
The challenge she hath given thee,
I say, vain man, for to appear,
And Satan boldly challeng'd here ?
And in the end I'll challenge all,
If on her head the blame doth fall;
That is, I mean, if men do blame,
The serpent I shall put to shame*1
'
276
As I have shewn yon in verse, how the Spirit
spake in the woman throughout the world, and it
w ay appear marvellous in your eyes, I must call
your attention to the Bible. Y ou say, as in Adam
all died, even soin Christ shall all be made alive; and
when the fulness o f the time was come, God sent
his Son, made o f a woman. Now, how do you
prove your Bibles, where you say, that .death
passed on man, came first by the woman ? Then it
was by the woman all died ; and by the woman all
are to be made alive. You say, by one man’s diso­
bedience many were made sinners, and by one man^s
obedience many were made righteous; yet'you say,
by the woman’s disobedience many were made sin­
ners; then by the woman’s obedience many must be
made righteous^ if in the woman all died, even $Q
Digitized by G oogle
ye must be all made alive. Now I shall come to
the purpose. Y e cause your Bibles to become a
mystery, and all is a mystery ; for ye say, all came
by the woman ; and yet ye say again, by the mail
sin entered, into the world. Now I ask, how you
prove it-?- But this I will prove, that all came
from the man at first: He was the first in creation ;
.not made o f man, but o f G o d ; and the bone wap
taken from man to complete his happiness. But
Satan found arts to Tob man o f that happiness, by
breaking the bone; that is, she fell, and broke off
all the happiness from man. Now Christ is com­
pared to the second Adam ; then there must come
a second Eve, to bring the godhead and manhood
to a perfect likeness. For as the bone was taken
from man, and made woman in man's likeness;
then Christ, who is the second Adam, must have a
bone taken from him also, to fulfil the law o f
G od and the gospel o f Christ, that the bone that is
fiven to man, as a bone o f Christ, cannot be broken,
or on the cross the bones o f men were broken;
but the bone o f Christ was not broken ; and he said.
I come to do thy will, O God ! It was the will of
G od to make the woman to be a helpmate for man,
and to complete his happiness— And by her it shall
be done; for if Satan had his will at first, I will
have mine at last. So all men shall know my word
shall not be broken, nor the bone o f that man,
Christ Jesus; for now shall mortal put on immor­
tality ; that is, the bone o f man, that was formed
after the manner o f man, as Christ was born after
. their manner; though he came from God, yet he
came into the world after the manner o f men, not
after the manner o f Adam, but born o f a woman
after the manner o f men ; so now the woman, who
fam e info the world not as Eve did, but after the
277
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
manner o f women, even so Christ came after th#
manner of men.” Now to be clearly understood in
this mystery, at his first coming, he came in 'the
form and fashion o f a man, but in the power and
spirit o f God. A t his second coming he promises
to redeem the fa ll; then he must come in power,
and in spirit, to the woman, and imperfection must
put on true perfection; and the bone o f Christ, that
is the spirit o f Christ, must come in the same like­
ness as the bone o f man d id ; and this must first
be completed, before man’s redemption can corner
or the rail o f man be repaired.
4
4 So now let learned men dispute,
And prove their Bibles clear,
The bone of man to all is come,
With every knowledge here.
So let your knowledge now appear
That 1 pronounced dead;
But by my bone I’ll prove it here
I am the living head/’
Here I shall drop this subject for the present; a
word to the wise is enough, for the wise to weigh
their Bibles deep.
And next I shall come to the Revelation, which
is a wonder in heaven and on earth. And here
is a wonder o f me, and a wonder of men. The
distress o f my mind causeth the wonder in me, as
many mysteries confuse my m ind; but the many
truths ought to change my doubts. So I am a won­
der to men and angels^ audjnen are a wonder to both,
how they can read such writings, and judge them
the productions o f the devil, from whom nought
but blasphemy proceeds. ; Another wonder is, bow
any man can ju d g e 'it from ipyaelf, and see the
27*
__ Digitized by;G oogle
f
bible so plain before him. These wondrous thoughts
must lead them to the Revelation, where the mys*
tery is revealed—-the prayers are daily before the
throne, crying to be delivered—
“ While saints amaze, and angels gaze
To see the heads of men,
They do not s$e the mystery,
The Revelation's plain.
Such words from hell do angels telL
To an enlighten'd race; ,
' .While othersjudge it from thyseUW
“ The woman must disgrace
a The learned ipen, we see it plain,
“ Gross darkness doth appear;
u The wonder now to heaven is come,
“ How man so much can err ! "
Those are the wonders now above,
Enlighten'd saints tp see »
How strong my Spirit here doth move;
Can man 90 darken'd he,
Not to discern from whence it came?
The wondrous angels fly
To tell that man knows not my name-*-
The glorious Trinity
Hath now agreed, the serpent's head?
: Must fall by that weak hand
That he so artfully betray'd,
And man's redemption come*
Thb wonders all to see such call.
And man so long stand out;
Had Adam done it first of all,
Then man might well dispute;
But he. did not; now see your lot,
Like Adam all go on;
He cast on MS his-destiny ;
Then now to mb 'tis come* , N
The woman here doth now appear
That 1 have given to men;
And now I bid you persevere,
And judge her written hand,
And answer then, as he began,
“ The woman us beguil'd
Then I'll appear to answer here,k
The serpent must be foil'd.
279
*
■
Digitized by L r O O Q l e
So cast on mb yottr destiny,
To give the woman here;
Improve your call, I tell you all,
I'll act like Satan there,
Who claim’d my word, condemn'd his Lord,
For to bring on the fall;
For man must die, was his reply,
And death was past on all;
Then now 'tis life brings on the strife—*
Behold an infant cry,
The mother’s pain doth all remain
When it is brought so nigh.
Te sons of men, could you discern
The lines that here go deep,
Xou'd see what birth must bring yon forth,
And all like children weep,
That you stood out so full of doubt,
Refus’d your Maker’s call,
From Satan's head too soon betray’d,
And so brought on your fall.
But now be wise betimes to rise ;
The fulness now is come,
That m disguise, before your eyes,
I'm in the woman's form ; *
But like the Jews you hear the news,
My wounds you open here,
’Tis aRfcifresIu the Scripture saitb,
My Spirit doth appear."
Here I shall end with the Revelation, for the
J
resent, and.come to the Law and the Gospel. To
e more plainly understood, I shall coine to the bra*
*en serpent, Numbers xxi. 8, 9. “ And the Lord
said unto Moses, make thee a fiery serpent, and
“ set it upon a pole: and it shall come to pass,
“ that every one that is bitten, when he looketh
“ upon it, shall live.— And Moses made a serpent
“ o f brass, and put it upon a pole, and it came to
u pass, that if'a serpent had bitten any man, when
“ ne beheld the serpent o f brass, he lived.”— Now
I shall bring this to St. Matthew's Gospel, c. xxvi.
v. 64, &c. “ Jesus saithunto him, Thou hast said:
286
Digitized by G oogle
281
u Nevertheless I say unto you, hereafter shall ye
“ see the Son o f Man .sitting on the right hand of
“ power, and coming in the clouds o f heaven.——
“ Then the high priest rent his clothes, saying, lie
“ hath spoken blasphemy ; what further need have
“ we of witnesses ? behold, now ye have heard his
“ blasphemy.— What think ye ? They answered
“ and said, he is guilty o f death.— Then did they
“ spit in his face, and buffeted him ; and others
“ smote him with the palms of their hands.”—
They also mocked him on the cross, saying, “ He.
“ saved others, himself he cannot save.”
Now I shall answer those passages o f the Old and
New Testament together; the shadow and the sub­
stance. The serpent o f fire, that I commanded
Moses to lift up in the wilderness, and which was
made o f brass, was my foreknowledge, how my Son
would be lifted up. They condemned him for blas­
phemy, for doing his miracles by devils; and blas­
pheming the name of the Lord, by saying he was the
Son o f God. So they placed him on the cross, as a
serpent that had acted in every form as a serpent o f
fire; for fire is a body o f heat, and so they judged
iny Son a body o f heat in the form o f the devil.
Brass is considered an emblem o f boldness; and for
boldness they judged him. Now the brazen serpent
saved all that looked up to him ; but himself he
could not save ; because, being in the bauds o f men,
they turned him in what form they pleased. Just
so was my Son : He saved all that looked to him for
redemption; but himself he could not save. I f he
would destroy the works o f the devil, he must cut
him down in his own likeness; for to cure the sting
o f sin, he must come, as I have said, in like manner
with the serpent— I M'ill bear the blame the man
G
Digitized by G oogle
262
cast on m e; and thou shalt bear the blame the w o ­
man cast on th ee; and then 1 will cure the sting o f
sin. So look unto me, all ye to the ends o f the
earth, and be ye saved.
“ Bind up the testimony, seal the law amongst
“ my disciples,” Isaiah, c. viii. v. 16.
“ For unto us a Child is born, unto us a Son i&
“ given : and the government shall be upon his
“ shoulder: and his name shall be called Wonder-
** ful, Counsellor, the M ighty God, the Everlast-
“ ing Father, the Prince o f Peace. O f the increase
‘ or his government and peace there shall be no
“ end.” Isaiah, c. ix. v. 6, 7.
“ The Lord will cut off from Israel head and tail,
“ branch and rush, in one day. The ancient and
“ honourable, he is the head; and the prophet that
, “ teacheth lies, he is the tail.” Isaiah, c. ix. v.
.14, 15.
“ And they set up over his head this accusation
“ written, +his is Jesus, the K ing o f the Jews."
Matthew, c. xxvii. v. 37-
“ The testimony o f Jesus is the spirit o f pro-
.“ phecy.” Revelation, c. xix. v. 10.
Now I will bring these mysteries together. A
Child was born unto all men that believed in him ;
and on the cross his government was written, the
K ing o f the Jews; and they have had nokingsinoe
this. That was the government that was to be on
my shoulders, the destiny that Pilate wrote, whom
they called my judge. This was the prophecy that
was written bn my cross; and for tneir unbelief,
their honourable men, their wise jrneu, and pro­
phets, were cast o u t; for they would not have a
prophet but such as prophesied lies unto them ; so
Digitized by G oogle
*11 were cut off in one d a y ; for the wisdom 'of their
wise,men is perished, and the understanding o f the
prudent man is h id ; for they do not understand
their prophets. They prophesied o f my first and
second com ing; but did not say, one was my first,
the other was my second; so they expected at m y
coming, to see my government and my kingdom
established. Now I will tell them the meaning o f
the words ; my government being on my cross, was
to govern myself, and be brought as a sheep to the
slaughter; and as a lamb before the shearer is
dumb, so I opened not my mouth. I f ye will go­
vern the world, ye must first govern yourselves, and
set an example tor others to walk by. So I set an
example before all men, to bear patiently my des­
tiny, that my adversary may bear his.”
I. shall drop this subject for the present, as I
intend filling my book with different subjects; and
shall here insert a letter I sent to a reverend gentle­
man, in J une, 1799.
“ Rev. Sir, • '
“ As I heard you inquired about
me at a public parish meeting, 1 must refer you to
a private meeting, and call your attention to the
Revelations. Were they made to be fulfilled and
understood, or not ? As I heard a minister once
say in his pulpit they were designed for eternity to
explain; for no man living could ever find them
out. Sir, I grant that no man, by learning, can
ever find them o u t; had they been plain, impostors
would have risen to fulfil them, and rendered the
perfect truth o f them more difficult to be discovered,
than it is n o w ; for now the crooked paths are made
straight .before you. ..........
883
Digitized by G oogle
f shall begin with the wonders John saw fa
heaven. Are they to be fulfilled in heaven, or on
earth? If you: say, on earth; I answer, then the
brooder of the Woman travailing in birth, and cry-*
ing to. be delivered, must take place on earth; and
the wonders which wew seen in heaven by John,
must cmhe on earth to men. If you My bay, they
are past already, an someSimply dispute of tbt Vir*
gin Mary and onr Saviour; I ask, when was this
vision seen ? was it before our Saviour was born,
or since? Your answer must be, since. Then I
ask, if Satan could appear in heaven tb Christ to
destroy him there, or the Virgin Mary could betra-
vailing with child after Christ ascended into glory
and all was finished ? Thou if yob cannot ttt^ke it
good that it is -passed, it must be ta come. You
will then be ready to ask me, who is the Man Child
that isito rule all nations with'a rod of iron ? This
I am ready to answer; when an explanation is dev
roanded. »
“ Now I will call your attention further. When
John saw (Michael and the angels fighting against
the Dragon, and the Dragon was cast out, was Sa­
tan then in heaven P You wilt be ready to answer,
no; Satan was cast out. before roan wafc made. Then
it must be casting from earth to hell. You may say,
why then was it written, he is cdtfte down ia great
wrath, because he knows his time is Short:? 7 an­
swer, his casting is first from heaven; though ha
ismot in heaven, yet lie is the power of darknessand
prince in the air; yon mayste him in the moon;
though some have simply said it Is (a than, but the
Spirit of revelation or divine inspiration hasrevealed
to me it is the devil: therefore it is said of the won­
der of the woman in the Revelation, “ The motm
£84
Digitized by G oogle
• ms
wfcs iieder her feet, and oo foe? head a crown o f
“ twelve stars.” Y ou may then be ready to ask
me, who are the twelve stars ? Sir, I answer, the
twelve chosen men, who strengthen m y hands;
Therefore the moon will be turned into blood- be­
fore the great and terrible day o f the Lord ; but
that terrible day is for devils.
“ N ow I have given you a short account o f what
is very clearly explained to me, I must call your at­
tention to tire twenty-four elders. D o you think it
means, Sir, in heaven or on earth ? I f you judge it
in heaven, whom do you judge to be the prophets,
apostles, or martyrs? Do uot all the hosts o f heaven
fall down and worship him? -But if it is fulfilledon
earth, when was it done ? All must befulfilled on
earth, which John saw in heaven. I will tell yon
who will be tire twenty-four elders, when I know
who are the twenty-four men that will prove these
wondrous things. After my hands have been
strengthened by twelve men, they will gain other
tw elve; th e n ‘ they will see what no man ever
thought, and what never entered into the heart o f
man to conceive. ‘ When they see the wondrous
wisdom o f God in creation and preservation, his
love to man, his mercy and goodness over all his
works, and bow be has condescended to lay before
men why he has done all things; then will the
twenty-four elders cast their crowns before him,
saying, “ Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory,
and honour, and power, for thou hast created all
things, and for thy pleasure they are, and were cre­
ated : wise is the Lord in all his ways, just and
righteous in all his works,” will be the language o f
• every heart; and well it may. The Bible ends
with the Revelation; and wh6n the Bible is re-
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
vealed, they Krill be convinced they have been dead
while they were alive, as Adam was pronounced;
yet, as'we call life, he lived long after; but he was
pronounced dead.' Just so is every man under the
fa ll; but as in Adam all died, even so in Christ
shall all be made alive. __
** Now I must call your attention to the 5th
chapter o f the Revelation, respecting the seven
seals. In 1792 I left my writings at Plym tree;
and when they were brought to me, they were
sealed up with seven seals, undesignedly by me;
hut whether designedly or promiscuously done, I
know n o t; but they were written within and with­
out; and I was ordered to put them in Mr. T .’s
possession ? and no man can read them : and what
is sealed on earth, is said to me to be sealed in )
heaven. I am now ordered to write to five different
ministers, by sending a letter, sealed up, to each
o f them,
* .
“ And now I must call you to the 6th chapter o f
the Revelation; as these five seals are explained to
me, but the sixth seal is not explained at present.
“ I must beg you will weigh your letters toge#
ther, as they are all on different subjects.
44 So now your parish meetings call,
And quit yourselves like men;
The tree of knowledge comes to all,
And the good fruit must come.” ’
285
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
The following Letter was sent in the year \799, to
a very dignified Clergyman.
Right Rev. Sir, Exeter, &c.
I trust, from the amiable, worthy, and good cha­
racter I hear of your Lordship, you will pardon the liberty I am
going to take, in sending you the following lines; the weightiest
subject that ever entered the human brain— such an instance has
never happened to any human being since edrth’s foundation was
placed before; the deepest inspired penman, the most leanfcd di­
vine, nor the deepest philosopher that ever wrote, never had such
thoughts of divinity or philosophy, as have been revealed to me by
the Spirit of Revelation ; and what Spirit that is, must be judged
by men.— Will yonr Lordship be astonished, when I tell your Lord-
ship, in 1792 I was foretold all was coming on the earth ? Per­
fectly as I was foretold, all has happened in every nation; but the
end is no.l yet.— When the truth of my writings began to come, I
was encouraged strongly in faith, that has been impossible for man
to destroy, although their arguments have often shaken my faith, by
telling me it came from the devil; but the answers given me to
their words, and the wondrous manner in which the Bible is ex­
plained, truly convinced me their judgment was wrong; and as
throwing oil into the (ire makes the flames burn the greater, the
very way men went to chill my faith, confirms the truth of the Bible
and the truth of my writings, as being foretold how every man I
was ordered to write to would act. And who can tell the heart and
thoughts of man, but God alone ?
Now, my Lord, will you be astonished when I tell you, the end
of all things is at hand, and the powers of darkness must be de­
stroyed from Hie fade of the earth, by that weak hand that he first
_ destroyeJ ? Here your Lordship may be lost in wonder, how Sa­
tan shall fall by a woman’s hand. Mysterious as it may appear,
yet very clear it is explained to me, by my perfect obedience to the
‘ commands of the Lord, who made the same promise to me, as
Herod did to the damsel; and I was ordered to ask in writing—
and my petition and request was, If I had found favour in the sight
of the Lord, that Satan might be cut off from the face of the earth,
as John the Baptist was. I was answered, the Lord will grant my
petition,, and give me my request; and 1 should seal it up with
three seuls, and carry it with me to the altar when 1 received -the
sacrament— I did ; and was then answered, what 1 have spoke' by
my Spirit, sealed with my seal, I will now seal with my blood.—
But it is said to me,
887
Digitize c H s G o O ^ I c -
i *' It is man must raise tliy hand
And tell thee to grow wise,-
Like Jtierod’s damsel to go on,
Then all shall gain the prize.
When men begin as slic( did then,
And like Heredias burnj,
To wound the foe, as she did do,
I will like Herod come.”
Thtf man strengthened the woman’s hand by the fajl, and he must
Strengthen her hand to bring it back. What God designed at first,
he will accomplish at last. It is not ail the powers of. hell can
frustrate the designs nor purposes of the Mo$,t High. The Lon)
made the woman tv complete the happiness of man, and by her it
must be done. - Fot-as the -attn riseth in the hcnizofi, and shl'^e’h
over the free of the earth,1end then setleth in. darkness, and risctlfc
again in the same place; and dust returns to dust; antj, ware re,
turns to waive with ebbing and flowing; yet all centre in the same
place— so must man centre, at last, as God placed him at first, ia
perfect happiness; and by the woman-it must .be completed. Christ
died for man’s atonement, and rose again for our justification.
Therefore now give ear, O heavens ! and be astonished, O earth t
the Lord hath a controversy with his people, and the saints must
judge the earth. That day of judgment must take place, whenmy
writings are proved ; such writings as never were before sinae
earth's foundation stood.
Will your Lordship marvel if 1 tell you, it is a sign fo me, why
the Lord hath done all things ? I have written to the Rev.--------- ,
the Rev. -------------, and-the R ev.------; but I am told, th
I,wd will never permit my writings to be proved,.jin J. had writtet
to you. If your Lordship will give me liberty, I will waif on you,
to tell what grounds l have for this faith. . ' o-
From your dutiful and humble Servant,
JO A N N A SOUTH C O T T .
LO N D O N ".
Printed byW. Merchant, Greville Street; and sold by F.. J. Fist t>
, No. 139,
•ear Bloomsbury Court, High Holborn; W. Tonr., (hapcl Place, Duke
Street, Westminster Road, Southwark ; also by V
V
. Svmonos, Candy
Lane; and the Miss E v e l e io k s, St. Sidwell’s, Exeter; S. H ir s t , Leeds;
J. M idolbton, York; and James' L io u t , Covenlry Street, Stourbridge,
Wereesteukire.
* -O ig itiz e c ltiy G oogle
