{"name":"Detector Of Quackery","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1802__corry___detector_of_quackery.pdf","mytitle":"Detector Of Quackery","mylang":"de"}
THE
D E T E C T O R
OP
Q U A C K E R Y;
OR,
ANALYSER
OF
M E D IC A L , P H IL O S O P H IC A L , P O L IT IC A L ,
DRAM ATIC, a n d LITERARY IMPOSTURE.
C O M PR E H E N D IN G A SK E TCH O F TH E M AN N ER S O F
TH E A G E .
%
B y JOHN C O R R Y ,
A u t h o r o f “ A Sa tir ic a l F ietf of L ondon a t th $
Com m encem ent of the N in eteen th Ce n t u r y ” E
5V.
La Satire * * * * * *
* * settle bravant l’orgueil, et 1'injustice;
Va jusques sous le dais faire palir le vice. b oilea v.
I have endeavoured to make nothing ridiculous that is not in
some measure criminal. add ison;
T H E SECOND ED ITIO N .
LONDON:
PRINTED FOR B. CROSBY, STATIONERS*-CO URT • R. OGLE, GREAT
TURNSTILE } J. HUGHES, WIGMORE-STREET} C- CHAPPLE,
JULL-MALL} AND OGLE AND AIRMAN, EDINBURGH.
1302.
T. Davison, White-Friars.
t
l
* I
$
% i.
9
r * r r
(
J
I f * '
t
I
\
’X
1 ' r
•>
r t
- ■ t - * >
'T
* ; i **
i .•/
*r
*
✓ »
'' <
> ac^'TV
V .A
-H
’
*
J
f
<- ' •
« ftft '
ft ‘ •
'f • J»
> < \ . ■I’ .
/ ft ‘ -
*
‘ \ «
t
• ■*
r
»
»
T
ADVERTISEMENT.
T he patronage with which this little book has
already been honoured by the public, is truly
grateful to the Author, who has corrected and
amplified the present edition.
Dr. Johnson observes, that u cheats can seldom
stand long against laughter and it is the sincere
wish of the Author, that his well-intended Satire
may rouse the Public to a just indignation against
Quacks and their Abettors.
SANCTIONS.
u T his may be called the age of Quackery, from the
abundance of impostors of every kind that prey upon
society ; and they who cannot think or judge for them­
selves have reason to be thankful to this intelligent De*
tector, for exposing, with so much justice and ingenuity,
the fraudulent arts of those people who make it their
business and profit to deteriorate the health, morals, and
amusements of the public.
“ W e have read this little volume with great satisfac­
tion. Mr. Corry’s remarks are pertinent and judicious,
his style is spirited, and he handles his respective subjects
with considerable dexterity. He is particularly severe on
the Kotzebue-mania— Monthly Mirrorfor December 1801.
€i W e are glad to see that our author is in general a
friend to morality and religion. On medical and philo­
sophical Quacks he is indeed severe ; the former poison
the body, and the latter the mind, of the credulous and
unwary; both, therefore, deserve the flagellation which
is bestowed on them.
u The Temple of Modern Philosophy, is equal to most
similar productions of Addison and Johnson : simplicity
of narration, appropriation of character, unity of design,
and purity .of moral sentiment, all mark this pleasing
vision.” — Universalis?s Miscellanyfor December 1801
* A new and improved series o f this work, is now carried forward
under the name o f “ The Universal Theological Magazine.”
t h e
DETECTOR OF QUACKERY.
MEDICAL EMPIRICIS »!-
— Arm’d for Virtue when I point the pen.
Brand the bold front of shameless guilty m en;
Hear this, and tremble! r/ou who ’scape the laws.
* * * * * * * * * * * »
To Virtue only and her friends a friend,
The world beside may censure or commend.
POPE.
A m o n g the various kinds of imposture practised in
polished society1
, Quackery has ever been the most suo\
cessful, in consequence of the extreme respect paid to
the professors of the ait of healing. Our ancestors,
indeed, like the ancient Greeks, seem to have considered
the knowledge of medicine as an immediate communica­
tion from Heaven: hence physicians were not account­
able to man for any accident which might attend the
administration of remedies*
b Empirics
/
2
Empirics profited by the superstition of mankind; and
while the wretch who committed a robbery was con*
demned to an ignominious death, the dispensers of nos­
trums, which deprived many individuals of their pro­
perty and their lives, were honoured as public benefac­
tors!
Quack Doctors practise their fraudulent arts with most
success in a wealthy commercial country like England ;
especially in the busy, populous, and luxurious capital,
where the multitude have neither leisure nor inclination
to detect imposture., Accustomed to obtain every
luxury and accommodation for money, most people ima­
gine that gold can procure even health and longevity:
indeed the principle of self-preservation is so strongly
entwined with the fibres of the human heart, that cun­
ning and unprincipled men, who assume the character of
physicians, easily impose on the public credulity.
Even regular physicians often profit by the fears of
mankind, and thus realize a fortune. Many persons, in
other respects very sensible, are so much under the in­
fluence of medical superstition, that, alarmed at the slighest
qualm, they hastily send for the physician, who, of
course, prescribes something to relieve that agony which
might have been prevented by temperance.— Hence the
constitution of the valetudinarian is gradually worn
out; a premature old age overwhelms him, and he ex­
pires surrounded by boluses and physicians.
Opulent persons pay their physician annually for
■ keeping their constitutions in repair; and the debauchee,
from his irregularities, seems determined that the
physician's
3
physician's engagement shall not be a sinecure.— On the
other hand, Quack Doctors seem to consider the human
frame merely as a subject for experiments, which, if suc­
cessful, will ensure the reputation of the practitioner*
The acquisition of fame and fortune is, in the estimation
-of these philosophers, cheaply purchased by sacrificing
the lives of a few of the vulgar. T o such they prescribe
gratis * ; in other words, they require no fee for making
an experiment upon some credulous being, which may
cost him his life!
Indeed the health of the people would soon be in a
hopeful state were they all equally credulous. Between
The internal use of the Nervous Cordial, or the Bafm of
Gilead, and the external application of Perkins's Metallic
ractors, our inside and our outside would be completely
medicated. By the way, the phrase inside is very ex­
pressive, and used as a general term by the common
people when speaking of disease. Whatever be their
internal complaint, they simply say that their inside is
disordered; and when they recover, their inside is^quite
well again. This comes to just the same conclusion as
all the learned phrases adopted by the empiric. While
Dr. Brodum, Dr. Solomon, or some other graduate of
the same fraternity, is, with a grave air, employed in
feeling the patient’s pulse and investigating symptoms$
while his active imagination is, like the mole, pervading
* Nothing can be more ridiculous than the slavish obedience of
some patients to the dictates of the doctor. A convalescent lately
wrote from Bath to his physician in London, to know whether he
might eat sauce with his pork!
B % all
4
all the dark intricacies of the iiseera, penetrating through
every obstruction to the abdomen, and eventually making
its escape from the anus in a puff offlatulency ; the patient
contents himself with describing the sensations which
he feels in his inside.
Before we animadvert on the imposition of modern
Quacks, let us just glance at the history of medicine.
The Jews are the first people on record who prac­
tised the art of healing, which they probably learned
from the Egyptians: but the Greeks, who worshipped
JEsculapius as the god of medicine, first reduced that
art to a regular system. Hippocrates isjustly considered
as the father o f physic, being the most ancient author
whose writings on that subject are preserved. The
most celebrated physicians who succeeded him were
Asclepiades, Celsus, and Galen.
After the subversion of the Roman empire the arts
and sciences were totally eclipsed by the barbarous man­
ners of the Europeans, and medicine was transplaced to
the peaceful regions of Arabia. Before the crusades,
several Hebrew, Arabian, and Latin professors of physic,
settled at Salernum, where Charles the Great founded a
college for their reception in the year 8oa.
The commencement of the sixteenth century was ren­
dered memorable by the introduction of chemistry into
medicine. Paracelsus * endeavoured to explain the art
of healing on chemical principles at once fanciful and
illu-
* Writers differ respecting Paracelsus. Turner asserts, that
tf though he boasted he could make man immortal, he di'd at
« forty-
5
illusory*— This was the origin of Quackery, which has
since been more destructive to mankind than the sword.
Empiricism has, in numberless instances, destroyed the
health and morals of the credulous voluptuary, who,
while grasping present pleasures, is regardless of the
inevitable consequences.
Medical imposture was early practised in England by
Edward the Confessor. That Royal ®uack pretended to
cure the scrofula, or King’s Evil, by a touch! The fin­
gers of modern monarchs have no such miraculous pro­
perty ; nay, it is well known that, instead of healing the
sick, many of them have been destroyers of the health
and happiness of the human species.
The absurd practice of touching for the King’s Evil
was continued so late as tU* reign o f Queen Anne ; and
Dr* Johnson, while in his infancy, was one of the last
ttf those patieuts who underwent that farcical opera­
tion *,
The
forty-seven years of age;** and a modern author informs us, that
“ Paracelsus, although he pretended to have in his possession the
stone ofimmortality,died in his fiftieth year* His vegetable sulphur
was a healing and stimulating remedy, similar to the Anodyne liquor
of Hoffman.’ * According to the account given by Libavius, this
vaunting imposter died at Salzburg, ia Germany, in the year 15419
in consequence o f his indulgence and dissipation.
* The following account, extracted from the Miscellanies of John'
Aubrey, esq. will evince the credulity of our ancestors respecting
the miraculous cure of diseases.
“ Our English Chronicles do record, that in the reign of King
* 3 Henry
6
The institution of the Royal College of Physicians in-
London was a powt rful restraint on Quackery *n
country. This college was founded by the public spirit
of Thomas Linacre, physician to Henry VIII* Linacre
** had beheld, with concern, the practice of this most
useful art chiefly engrossed by illiterate monks and em­
pirics* To strike at the root of this evil, he therefore
obtained, by his interest with Cardinal Wolsey, letters
Henry (he Third, a child was born in Kent, that, at two yeais old,
cured all diseases. Several persons have been cured of the King'*
livil, by the touching or handling of a seventh son.
« It is certain th.it the touch of a dead hand hath wrought wonder*
fid effects, c. g.— One, a painter o f Stowcl, in Somersetshire, near
B.Idgcwacer, had a wen i;> the Inside o f his cheek, as big as a pullet'*
egg, which, by the advice of one, was cured by once or twice touch*
ing, or rubbing, with a dead woman's,band.
4i In Somersetshire, it is confidently, reported,, that some were cured,
of the King's Evil by the touch o f the Duke o f Monmouth. The
Lord Chancellor Bacon, saith, < That imagination is next kin to
miracle- icorkingjaithS
“ When King Charles the First was prisoner at Carisbrook Castle,
there was a woman touched by him, who had the King's Evil in
her eye, and had not seen in a fortnight before, her eye-lids being
glued together: as they were at prayers (after the touching) the
woman's eyes opened* Mr. Seymour Bowman, with many others,
were eye-witnesses of this*
1
1Arise Evans had afungous nose, and said it was revealed to him
that the King's hand would cure him : and at the first coming o f
King Charles II. into St, James's Park, he kissed the King’s hand,
and rubbed his nose with it ; which disturbed the King, but cured
him,'*
patent
7
patent from Henry VIII. dated in tlie year 1518, con­
stituting a corporate body of regular bred physicians in
London ; in whom should reside the sole privilege of ad­
mitting persons to practise within that city, and a cir­
cuit of seven miles around i t ; and also of licensing prac­
titioners throughout the whole kingdom, except such a$
were graduates of Oxford or Cambridge, who, by virtue
©
f their degree, were independent of the college, except
within London and its precincts. The college had like­
wise authority to examine prescriptions and drugs in apo­
thecaries' shops: and their censures were enforced with
the power of inflicting fines and imprisonment.”
Notwithstanding the vigilance of this respectable body,
empiricism from time to time committed depredations
on the health of the people of England. Francis An­
thony, an Englishman, after having studied medicine at
Hamburgh, returned to his native country, and in the year
1598 published a treatise concerning a panacea extracted
from gold. He commenced practitioner in London with­
out a licence from the College of Physicians, in conse­
quence of which he was fined 20/., and imprisoned.
In the year 161c, Anthony, after his liberation, pub­
lished a defence of his aitrumpotabiky or potable gold ; in
which, like other impostors, he affected the greatest can­
dour in disclosing the process of his medicine, while he
concealed the nature of its solution. After his death his
son obtained a comfortable livelihood by the sale of his
father’s nostrum ; so willing are the unthinking part of
mankind to continue the dupes of empiricism!
The belief that gold was possessed of medical virtues
B 4 seems
$
teems to have been very general at this time throughout
Europe- An English writer of the seventeenth century
asserts, (t that gold is the most perfect of all inanimate
bodies, out of the power of any of the elements to cor­
rupt or destroy, and the greatest cordial in the world;
an excellent medicine against melancholy.” Few per­
sons will attempt to deny the cheering influence of gold;
hut though a purse of that precious metal might be effi­
cacious in the cure of melancholy, the fact is, that most
hypochondriacal patients have more gold than their exi­
gencies require.
Indeed, the commencement of the seventeenth century
may be justly considered as the sera of chemical empiri­
cism, when the genius of medicine pervaded and analysed
the four elements in search of immortality, the vital prin-
•
riple supplied by the air, induced fanciful theorists to
imrgine that it contained a degree of medical virtue yet
ur discovered. W e are informed u that Dr. Majo hath
found that the air is impregnated with a mtro-aeria!spirit,
and that it is diffused almost throughout the whole system
of nature; and that fire itself, as to its form and essence,
is nothing else but the same spirit put into motion ; and
that all fermentations, whether tending to generation,
perfection, or corruption, depend on this spirit *.” — Now,
pray, what is the vivifying property attributed to oxjgen
gas by Dr. Beddocs, Mr. Davy, and other whimsical
theorists, but a revival of this opinion ? So true is the
observation of Solomon— u There is nothing new under
the sun.”
* Turner’s Curiosities of Art, p. S.
On
9
On the Continent, the pursuit of an imaginary panacea
was prosecuted with a degree of enthusiasm bordering
on phrensy. An undefinable property of nature, which
pseudo-philosophers denominated original matter, was
sought for in various substances. Gold, from its known
purity and durability, was supposed to contain the prin­
ciples of immortality ; and the common people of Italy,
France, and Germany, denied themselves necessaries that
they might perchase a little of the miraculous tincture of
gold !
While the alchymist was busied in dissolving the
heaviest of metals, other sages were engaged in con­
densing that most light and volatile of the elements— air9
into the form of powders or drops, for the re-invigoration
of the human frame, and the restoration of youth and
vigour to old age and imbecility. Time convinced these
sages of the futility of such speculations; yet, during
their chemical researches, they made some discoveries
which have contributed to the health of man.
Another still more absurd body of impostors, the
Judicial Astrologers, at this time misled mankind, and
pretended that they had discovered the influence of the
oelestial bodies on the Human frame. It appears, indeed,
that a very superficial knowledge of surgery and physic
was sufficient to ensure the fame of the practitioner.
Turner, in his Wonders of Art, tells us, with great gravity,
u that a woman of Kenley, in Shropshire, generally
known by the name of nurse Corfield, was so famed for
her skill in surgery and physic, that it gave occasion for x
great confluence of persons and patients to the town
a 5 where
20
where she lived. Many people, not only of the meaner
sort, but of the gentry likewise, for thirty or forty miles
distance, made their application to her; insomuch that
the inns were filled with guests, and the house turned
into an hospital, and her fame exceeded that of any other
physician/'— The same author endeavours to prove the
communication between human beings and the inhabi­
tants of the invisible world, by 4
<An account of one
Anne Jefferies, of Cornwall, who was fed for six months
by a small sort of airy people called fairies ; and of the
strange and wonderful cures she performed with salves
and medicines she received from them, for which she
never took one penny of her patients ” — It is remarkable
that most of her cures were performed by contact and
stroking, similar to the application of Perkins’s Metallic
Tractors: but how much more disinterested was this
female worker of miracles, who relieved pain gratis, than
Perkins, who requires five guineas for a pair of tractors of
no greater efficacy than the famous wooden skewers with?
which Dr. Haygarth has performed such miracles at
Bath ! Were our Quacks to imitate the disinterestedness
of Anne Jefferies, they would be liable only to the charge
of fanaticism; but it is evident that they arc willing to>
publish any fictitious account of cures, and practise any
species of medical imposture, to- defraud the credulous
of their money-
Even in the eighteenth century, notwithstanding the
boasted knowledge and refinement of Europeans, several
Quacks publicly asserted their power to cure every dis­
ease. Among the most remarkable of these, Messmer
desexves
11
deserves particular notice, both on account of his inge-
nuity and temporary success.
In the year 1766, this German imposter, at his outset
in Vienna, proposed to cure all diseases by animal mag­
netism- Contrary to the selfish conduct of modem
Quacks, he converted his house into an hospital, and im­
parted the magnetic medicinegratis* In consequence of
this seeming benewlencty his ascendancy over the imagina­
tion of the patient infinitely surpassed that of a belief
in the healing property of Perkins9
s Tractors; nay, so
penetrating was the magnetic fluid which Messmer pre­
tended was centred in his own person, that we are told
the nervous and hypochondriacal imagined they received
blows similar to those given by a blunt piece of iron,
though the operator was separated from them by two
doors !
In a short time, however, the Germans began to ques­
tion Messmer’s miraculous powers, and to avoid detec­
tion he left Vienna and went to Paris, where he wa9 re­
ceived with marks of the greatest approbation by the
curious, the gay, and the dissipated inhabitants of that
luxurious capital. The disinterested Messmer now insti­
tuted a private $ocietyy where a number of pupils, who
previously took an oath of secrecy, and deposited a sum
of money, were instructed in the wonderful mysteries of
animal magnetism. The immoral practices of several of
his pupils led to a discovery of this lawless society of
dupes and voluptuaries; m consequence of which the
French government appointed a number of learned men
to examine the pretensions of Messmer, and discover the
b 6 reality
12
reality or imposture of the virtues ascribed to the magnet.
4t These philosophers/* says a modern writer, “ among
whom we find the names of Franklin and Lavoisier, re­
cognised, indeed, very surprising and unexpected pheno­
mena in the physical state of magnetised individuals; but
they gave it as their opinion, that the power of imagina­
tion* and not animal magnetism, had produced these
effects. They perceived, after a number of experiments
and facts frequently repeated, that contact, imagination,
imitation, and excited sensibility, were the real and sole
causes of these phenomena which had so much con­
founded the illiterate, the credulous, and the enthusias­
tic; that this boasted magnetic element had no real ex­
istence in nature; and consequently, that Messtner him­
selfwas either an arrant impostor, or a deceived fanatic.’*
While these medical and philosophical transactions
amused the Parisians, our English itinerant sages went
about doing good.. The mountebank, clothed in green
and gold, his sagacious head adorned with a tye-wig,
and his beneficent hands filled with boluses and bottles,
ascended the stage, while the Merry-Andrew, who had
collected the people by sound of trumpet, approached,
and vaulted up beside his master, with whom he en­
tered into a humourous dialogue, and mimicked to the
great delight of the surrounding populace. When the
witticisms and feats of Mr. Merryman had softened the
spectators into universal good-humour, the Doctor pro­
fited by their hilarity, and dispensed his nostrums to the
credulous, who eagerly gave their money for the inesti­
mable box.ofpills* healing balm, or bottle of cordial, which
were
13
were indued with virtues not only to cure existing dis­
eases, but even to operate as a kind of magicalpreventive
of every ailment.
When any of these itinerant empirics by dint of per­
severance and enterprise had realised a property, he
became a resident physician in London, assumed conse-
qmree, and, like modern Quacks, lived sumptuously on
the liberality of his dupes.
Having given a short sketch of the history of Quack­
ery, we shall now proceed to analyse the writings of
some notorious modern empirics, who, not content with
eminence in their wonderful profession of working mi­
racles, seem desirous of aspiring to literary fame.
The first of these distinguished personages is Dr. Bro-
dum, whose medicines have so long been the theme of
paragraphists. This ingenious man is a German Jew ;
he attended Dr. Bossy in quality of a footman, when
that beneficent sage came over to enlighten the eyes of
the English, and with him made the tour of England*
Having obtained the knowledge of several medical terms,
by being present at the lectures of his eloquent master,
this enterprising little lacquey resolved to commence
Doctor himself. We are not certain whether the love of
gain, or a desire to alleviate the sufferings of his fellow-
creatures, first induced Dr. Brodum to give up the
science of shaving, dressing a wig, and brushing a coat,
for the more elegant art of preparing the Nervous Cordial
and Botanical Syrup; two medicines which, from the
Doctor’s knowledge of the Linnxan system of botany,
we may consider as grand restoratives of nature* Per­
haps
I«
haps his medical skill was communicated 5
n a vision by
some demon of the German Illuminati* But it is not im*
probable that the secret of preparing the above-men­
tioned medicines is hereditary in his family, as the
Doctor himself seems to insinuate, when*he tells us in his
u Guide to Old A g ef that “ there is no other person of
the name of Brodum in England.” Many are the differ­
ent mediums by which wisdom can be imparted to
others. Count Cagliostro may have bequeathed to the
Doctor the secret of manufacturing his Baum de vie ; orr
perhaps, the famous Count de St. Germaine communK
cated his recipe for the preparation of his Tea for pro-
longing Life•
The talisman, however, which metamorphosed a lac­
quey into a physician, was the diploma which the benevo­
lent and disinterested professors in the Marischal college
of Aberdeen sent to this enterprising foreigner. But
whether that learned body accepted a pecuniary com­
pensation of one pound thirteen shillings and three-pence
three farthings sterling, as Dr. Panglos says they did
from him, or whether the little German was liberal;
enough to send them a larger sum* is only known to the
parties concerned *.
Soon
* The following extract o f a Utter Croon Professor Bentley, is an
exculpation of one college o f Aberdeen from the charge o f conferring,
academical honours on impostors.
Sir ,
King's College, Aberdeen, 4tb AW 180U
I think your concern for the character of your country is truly
laudable, and I am happy in being able to assure you, that that of
the:
15
Soon after the commencement of his medical career,
the Doctor found a powerful auxiliary in the person of
the late Quack Doctor Freeman’s widow. His union
with this sapientfemale contributed much to his pbysieat
knowledge; and if she prove a fruitful vine* their illus­
trious progeny* by a timely initiation into the principles
©f medical imposture, may be able to supply all the dupes
andfools in Europe with remedies for every disease.
the University and Kitig's College, Aberdeen, can be satisfactorily
vindicated. Neither Solomon nor Brodum ever did. or could obtain-
any academical honour from it. I f the other College, which is to­
tally unconnected with ours, and is about a mile off in New Aber­
deen, be any-wife implicated, they will, I doubt not, vindicate them­
selves. And that they may, I have, in justice,, communicated to
their Professor of Medicine, Dr. Livingston, the subject of your fa*
vour this morning, and suppose you will hear from him, though he
may not have time by this. post.
When Candidates for Medical Degrees cannot be present, we are
particularly strict in requiring ample certificates of their moral cha­
racter, and of their literary and professional abilities, signed by two'
Gentlemen o f the Faculty, who are themselves M. D s ; and wc
have generally the signatures of the first Physicians in London. Jt
is likewise a regulation, that the candidate shall declare he is not,
rnr ever shall bcy concerned in making or vending quack medi­
cine*
"Yours most faithfully,
JA M E S B E N T L E Y .
H r. R o b e r t O c i e , Bookseller, Great-Turnstile, )
Hoiborn, London. i
Having
16
Having travelled through different parts of England*
like a public benefactor, generously dispensing medicines
for a small compensation, the Doctor at length resolved
to become a resident in this metropolis.
That merit, such as his, should go unrewarded, would
have been an extraordinary instance of degeneracy in the
English nation. A man who raised himself from the
humble situation of a menial servant to the honourable
avocation of working miracles, and who, without either
genius or education, has been the author of a work which
he says has already passed through upwards of fifty edi­
tions, must be a most -wonderful being! *
Every person who has the pleasure of an acquaintance
with this curious little doctor, must acknowledge that
he is companionable and hospitable ; and so skilful in
vocal music as to excite the risibility, if not the con­
tempt, of the hearer. Indeed, he is so far from being phleg­
matic, like the generality of his countrymen, that he is
* One instance of the Doctor's cunning deserves notice. It k
said, that, at his commencement, he caused bills to be printed, and
stuck up in different towns where he exh'bleed, offering a reward to
whoever would find and restore a diamond ring, a watch, or some
other valuable article, which he had lost Hence John Bull was
duped, and considered Dr. B. as a man o f very great importance in­
deed ! W e are not informed how long he continued his itinerant
practice ; but if he did not, like his former master, open the eyes o f
the credulous, he certainly cured numbers of their implicit confi­
dence m the efficacy of Quack medicines*
gifted
17
gifted with all the vivacity, effrontery, and address, cha­
racteristic of the accomplished lacquey.
A person with such multifarious endowments must
be fully adequate to the important task of producing a
treatise fraught with instruction, and calculated to guide
the aspiring youth of Old England to the desirable at­
tainment of a premature old age ; a consummation which
they appear t6 be ambitions of arriving at with all
possible celerity, if we may judge from the dissoluteness
of their lives.
Let us now proceed to analyse that sublime and beau­
tiful production of genius, entitled, u A Guide to Old
Age, or a Cure for the Indiscretions of Youth?* The de­
dication is a most elegant specimen of the Doctor’s lite­
rary abilities. He modestly praises himself as a public
benefactor, who has contributed to the health of the
people, and on that presumption he fnacribefi his pam*
phlet to the K ing ! Although the Doctor has thus ven­
tured to claim the patronage of our chief magistrate, as
we may suppose, from a consciousness of his own inte*
grity, had he lived in the reign of Alfred the Great, that
prince would doubtless have exalted him to a very con-,
spicuous situation.
As poetry and romance have so long tended to vitiate
the public taste, Dr. Brodum has endeavoured to coun­
teract such frivolity by profound observations on different
diseases. It is evident, indeed, that the genius of the sage
produced this volume by many a nocturnal incubation,
while the goddess of dulness herself leaned forward from
her leaden throne, to claim the new-born progeny of the
brain
18
brain as her own. Instead of adhering to the precept of
Horace, and drinking wine, the Doctor most certainly
quaffed porter during his studies; in consequence of
which he has descended to the very depths of the bathos*
further than any other medical writer, except his pro­
found contemporary Dr. Solomon *♦
The compiler of Literary Memoirs of Living AuthorsT
speaking of Dr. Brodum, calls him “ one of those empi­
res in physic, and newspaper puffers, whose machina­
tions are gulphs to the current of life.” IIow illiberal!
Cal: a man who devotes his studies to the benefit of the
puLIis and himselfdeserve so harsh a censure ? nay, was it
not invidious in the critic to omit tiic name of Dr. Solo­
mon, whose pamphlet was equally entitled to his obser­
vation ? Dr. Brodum in this, and every other, instance of
invidious animadversion on his public services, may con­
sole himself with the reflection, that great men have ever
been subject to the empoisoned 6haft6 of calumny, and
* As curiosities o f literature, the pamphlets o f Drs. B. and S.
are equally entitled to the notice o f the speculaiht, who delights to
contemplate human nature in all its varieties. Both these medical
treatises were written under the influence o f such superlative dulne.s
and vanity, that it would be difficult to dcc’dc which is best entitled
to our contempts Indeed they are completely soitr>ijj;Ct and persons
who regret the inefficacy of the Nervous Cordial, and the Baim. of
Gilead, may find a temporary alleviation o f pain in the perusal of
the “ Guide to Old Age,'* a.td the <
e Guide to Health/* the sopo­
rific pages o f which will lull the reader t6 repose, and be useful
as an effectual opiate, supeuoc even to in $tup«.f; i«g the
faraia*
u that
u that censure is a tax which a man must pay to the pub­
lic for being eminent.”
The efficacy of the Doctor's medicines is supported by*
a cloud of witnesses, consisting of letters from corre­
spondents, most of whom probably occupy garrets in this
metropolis, though the letters are said to have been su>t
from different parts of Great Britain. Very much to the
credit of Dr. B. he is said to patronise genius, by liberally
rewarding the authors of those elegant advertisements with,
which he occasionally adorns our newspapers. Surely
a man of feeling must be in a most deplorable state of
penury before he can bring himself to prostitute his ta­
lents in support of Quackery i He may, hkc the apothe­
cary in the play, exclaim, “ my poverty, and not my
will, consents but let him consider that such an eva­
sion will not silence conscience at the hour of death.
As the principal part of Dr. B/s pamphlet consists of
an account of cases, and cures said to have been effected
by the administration of his nostrums, we shall pass
them as totally uninteresting to the lover* of truth* In­
deed, the Guide to Old Age is the most complete sys­
tem of pseudology ever published, except the very elegant
and elaborate treatises written by his brethren Dr. Solo­
mon and Mr. D. B. Ferkins,
This sublime and beautiful production naturally sinks
to the true profundity ohscme%
as we approach the magical
finis. Speaking of his Botanical Syrup, Dr- B. asserts,
that, “ he is not a nostrum vender” and requests the
reader to u ask for Dr. B/s Syrup, because there are va­
rious sorts of syrup advertised in tin bottles*”
The
50
The Doctor, like a beneficent philosopher, says, that
Many lady or gentleman who is exceedingly ///, had better
make a personal application, that he may have it in his
power to give prescriptions or other advice. Any lady
or gentleman, whose case will not permit them to quit
their own houses, may be availed upon with the greatest
attention by the Doctor at five guineas a-week.1’— This,
moderate fee bespeaks the benignity and piety of the
learned Doctor; for it is clear that being a Jcwy and
most of his wise patients professing Christianity, he will
attend On the Jewish and Christian sabbath gratis%
As a still further proof of the excellence of his medi­
cines, Dr. B* has published the affidavit of a John
MC
G. who must be a man of a very lively imagina­
tion. He swears, that he “ received astonishing benefit by
taking the Nervous Cordial, which was recommended to
him by a medical man very probably by Dr. B, him­
self! and he concludes this tremendous oath, by swearing
that he was cured “ of a bilious fever, yellow jaundice,
and palpitation of the heart/* The latter part of this
affidavit is remarkable for the wily caution with which it
is worded ; for the deponent does not swear that it was
Dr. Brodum’s Nervous Cordial which cured him of a
complication of diseases; he leaves that to the judgment
of the reader, whose credulity must be astonishing in­
deed, if such an oath can prompt him to swallow a nos­
trum.
The Guide to Old Age is, like Solomon’s Guide to
Health, embellished with a portrait of the author; so
that the happy convalescent may contemplate the benign
lineaments
#
21
lineaments of his benefactor. Indeed, if viewed with the
scrutinising eye of a physiognomist, it might be found that
Dr. B/s portrait presented traits of servility and cunning
unworthy of the countenance of a philosopher.
When we reflect, however, on the national benefit of
universal health bestowed by those retailers of sanity, or
miracle-mongers, we must rejoice in the idea that agricul­
ture, manufactures, and every art and science, may now
be pursued without the interruption of sickness. Public-
spirited men, like our advertising physicians, have a claim"
on the national gratitude, and are justly entitled to civic
honours. If a Roman who saved the life of a citizen
was considered as a benefactor to the state, how much
more should such men as Dr. Brodum and Dr. Solomon,
who have saved thousands, be rewarded and honoured ?
Would it not be worthy of British generosity to open a
subscription for the purpose of erecting statues of these
goodmen. The statues might be placed as ornaments to
the front of Newgate, one on the right side, and the other
on the left of that awful spot, whence so many youthful
heroes take their flight to the world unknown. The
victim of vice, whom the laws of his countt y had doomed
to an untimely grave, might then point to the statues, and
moralise, with his last breath, on the beneficial effect of
-nostrums, while he acknowledged, that the promise of re-
novated health had induced him to continue his career o f
depravity, and to wander through the haunts of impurity
and disease, till excess, like a flame to the oil, exhausted
1
:bis constitution, and pernicious habits drove him to an
open
tfpen violation of the laws of that society which had
cast him offlike a detested slh /”
Among other proofs of bis superior penetration and sa­
gacity, Dr. B. informs us, that “ there is no other person
of the name of Brodum in England/’ T o this observa­
tion some cynical readers might be induced to reply,
that the people of England might have been just as well
without the Doctor himself. Such cavillers, however*
should consider what an extraordinary person he must
be, who can, with a single glance, survey a nation 1 Per­
haps this wonderful strength of sight was communicated
by his master, Dr. Bossy, who travelled so long through
England enlightening the eyes of the people, but whose
own optics are now, alas, closed for ever!
The Panopticon, invented by Beetham, was a mere
trifle compared with the extensive range of Dr. B/s
sight; and he might be employed to .good purpose as a
hind of animated telegraph, if placed at the Admiralty.
u But who,” cries a lover of medicine, with indignation
— “ who would convert a philosopher into a telegraph ?
No, no; the Doctor is too valuable to the community
to be made a mere machine of, though several wrong­
headed people obstinately assert that we should enjoy
better health if there was noperson of the nameo f Brodum
in England /
It appears that this aspiring little Jew Mwould hea
s o l d i e r When the magnanimous Mr. Beeves sounded
the tocsin of alarm, and taylors, barbers, artificial florists,
and men-milliners, rushed to arms in defence of theirpro-
petty
perty, the Doctor* not content with pursuing one species
of destruction* became ambitious of distinguishing him­
self as a man-qucller in the tented field ! Accordingly, in
an evil hour, he became a member of the St. James’s
corps of volunteers, to the great consumption of his roast
beef and wine \ for he, with true Jewish hospitality, in­
vited several of his brother soldiers to dinner from time
to time, and by the eloquence of good cheer, endeavoured
to obtain their suffrages in promoting him to the rank
of an officer. Disgusted at the idea of being com­
manded by an Israelite, the corps, very much to their ho­
nour, repressed the ambition of our hero* who soon after­
wards laid down his arms, and resumed his usual instru­
ments of war, collected from the vegetable kingdom. It
certainly was rather impolitic to reject poor Dr. B .; for
had the war with France continued, a man of his won*
derful versatility of genius might have been of essential
service in a military as well as a medical capacity. A
few drops of his Nervous Cordial would have operated
as a most excellent tonic to raw soldiers on their first on­
set ; and from the Doctor’s uncommon powers of vision,
he woutd have made an excellent aid-de-camp, as he
was eminently qualified to reconnoitre the position of
the enemy-
Very much to the honour of Dr. B. and his dulcinca,
they both cordially agree in the beneficial properties of the
Nervous Cordial. Indeed, whoever doubts the efficacy
of this medicine, may obtain ocular demonstration of its
benign influence in the transformation of a menial into a
gentleman— an itinerant empiric into a resident physician,
regularly
u
regularly graduated at the Marischal College of Aber­
deen. Nor does the excellent properties of this nostrum
end here, for its influence over the credulous is so great,
that like Fortunatus’s purse, it supplies its ingenious in­
ventor with money, which enables him to live very com­
fortably. Such are the excellent moral andphysicaleffects
of quackery.
Let us now turn our attention from the principal ad­
vertising physician of London to another sage, the no­
torious Dr. Solomon, of Liverpool; who, like his compe­
titor for public patronage, is a Jew, an empiric, and an
author.
This graduate has, like Dr. B. been authorised by the
philanthropic professors of the Marischal College of
Aberdeen to practise as a physician.
His pamphlet, entitled, A Guide to Healthy is manifestly
written to promote the sale of his nostrum ; for, like the
miserable production of the German Quack, there are
few medical precepts in the volume that can be of the
smallest utility. Yet while we regret the total want of
medical knowledge, and the vulgar obscenity of Dr. S*
we cannot but admire the diffidence with which he be­
gins his Introduction : u This book,” says he, “ being
calculated for private individuals, there is no one in the
English language that will be of more use to them !”
Modest and unassuming sage ; the reader must doubtless
become strongly prepossessed in favour of a production
SO candidly approved by its author /
After the introduction, the reader is presented with an
advertisementy which informs him, that “ the Guide to
Health
Health has been pirated, and many spurious copies are
in circulation.*1 T o counteract this, the Doctor has
signed “ his name on each book with a pen." Most
*
persons who are endowed with common sense will rea­
dily agree with the Doctor, that all the copies which
they have ever seen of the Guide to Healthy were not only
spurious guides9but pernicious both to health and morals.
It must be very pleasing to the lovers of literature, how­
ever, to find that a philosopher, like Dr. Solomon, can
write his name; and what is more extraordinary still, it
appears that this celebrated name is written “ on a book
and to raise our astonishment to the highest degree of
sublimity, gentle reader, Dr. Solomon writes “ with a
pen” — Information still more valuable, especially to the
sredulousy is communicated by the latter part of this cu­
rious advertisement, where the Doctor tells us, that “ the
public may be assured they are attempted to be imposed
upon a confession which proves that Dr. Solomon is
a mery conscientious man ! Probably he apprehended ap­
proaching dissolution, when he honestly made this public
avowal of imposition. Be that as it may, every sensible
man will cordially coincide with Dr. Solomon, th it the
various attempts made by Quack Doctors to defraud the
public are but too often successful.
Speaking of nervous diseases, the Doctor says— u As
nervous and hypochondriac complaints are much more
prevalent in Europe than is generally imagined, I have
been very attentive to their method of cure, and hope
the following will prove as good a treatise on these dis­
eases as any extant.” Can we sufficiently admire the
c elegance
26
elegance of the style, and the spirited egotism which am*
mates this interesting extract.
In page 36 we are informed, u that the most learned
physicians have been unable to discover in the Cordial
Balm of Gilead the least particle of mercury, antimony,
iron, or any other mineral except gold, pure virgin gold,
and the true balm of Mecca.” What an excellent al-
chvinist! Without doubt Doctor Solomon has con­
verted all the gold sent to him by the public into cordial
balm for tire relief of the diseased. The costly prepara­
tion of this nostrum at once accounts for the scarcity of
the gold in circulation ; Dr. Solomon has dissolved our
guineas into balm ! Let us no longer express our disap­
probation of bank notes; for where is there a man so
selfish who would not give his last seven-shilling piece for
so patriotic a purpose as to preserve the health of the
nation ?
Doctor Solomon does not tell us by'what means the
wonderful secret of mingling gold with the balm of
Mecca was first communicated to him. Perhaps the in­
spiring dove of M a h o m e t flew from Mecca to the
Doctor with the healing balm on its wings, and incited
him to impose upon the vile Christians of England;
thus, by a combination of Jewish and Mahometan wis­
dom, enabling the sage to work miracles.
Cavillers may say that the Doctor's pretensions to a
new discovery in medicine is only a revival of the chime­
rical experiments of former deluded alchymists; but
from his general professions of benevolence, it must be
evident, that he not only means well, but is convinced
of
27
©
Fthe efficacy of his Anli-hnpettgines. This bard name
reminds us of the observations of a Spanish satyrist on
Quack medicines:— u T o hear Quacks call oVer their
simples,” says he, u would make you swear they were
raising so many devils ; such as Opopanex, Buphtalmas,
Alectorolophos, Ophioscroden, aud a great many more.
And by all this formidable bombast is meant nothing in
the world but a few simple roots, such as carrots, tur­
nips, radishes, and the like. But they keep the old pro­
verb in remembrance— He that know thee will never buy
thee: and, therefore, every thing must be made a mys­
tery, to hold the public in ignorance.”
The Doctor gives a long extract from the Medical
and| Physical Journal, describing the properties of the
balm of Mecca, a drug which the superstitious folly of
the eastern nations has exalted much above its value.
The description, however, of this medicine will probably
throw some light on the Doctor’s nostrums ; “ the odour
of this balm resembles a compound of rosemary and sage,
partaking also, in a slight degree, of the nature of turpen­
tine ; besides which, it partially emits the flavour of le­
mons and mace!” Is it not extremely probable that
Dr. Solomon’s wonderful Anti-Impetagincs, and Cordial
Balm of Gilead, are composed of an intermixture of
rosemary, sage, turpentine, lemons, and mace ? Happy
will it be for the credulous, if these nostrums are pre­
pared from no worse materials, though even these may in
some diseases prove fatal to the deluded patient!
« Very fat or coipulent persons,” says Dr. Solomon,
u should avoid the cold-bath; for their fibres are so
. c % stuffed
stuffed rouml9 and as it were bolstered up, that they have
no room to vibrate or contract, with the sudden squeeze
of the bath : instead, therefore, of enforcing their springs
and shaking off any unnecessary incumbrances, they will
only be strained to no purpose, and consequently weak­
ened ; for wheresoever an effort is made to remove any
thing by an elastic body, if the first exertion fails, every
impetus afterwards languishes, and the spring is spoiledP
This specimen of Dr. Solomon’s excellence in the bathos
ought to be preserved as a literary curiosity, unequalled
even by the palpable obscure of Dr. Brodum himself.
The significance of those elegant and apposite phrases,*
sudden squeeze, enforcing springs, and the languishing
impetus, in consequence of which the spring is spoiled, are
so unique and expressive, that it would be difficult to find
a passage so elegantly descriptive in the works of our
best English writers.
It has been mentioned in the former part of this work,
that the Doctor has adorned his elegant treatise with
his. portrait. Besides this embellishment, he has favoured
the public with an engraving of his mansion in Liver­
pool. Hence the happy few who have been so fortunate
as to outlive the effects of his Cordial Balm and Anti-
Impetigines, may view the residence of their benefactor.
A scale is annexed, by which it appears, that the body
of this consecrated tenement is seventy feet long ; and un­
doubtedly, were the philanthropic proprietor exalted ac­
cording to his merit, he would be placed by public jus­
tice in a situation as eminent and conspicuous as *
that
which conferred immortality on Haman.
We
29
We are informed by puffing paragraphs in the news-
papers, that “ Dr, Solomon has published a new and en­
larged edition of his Guide to Health, consisting of ten
thousand copies!” Does the miserable scribbler ima­
gine that anyone will believe this? and must not fa­
bricators of such pernicious falsehoods fed a degree of
remorse for having recommended such ridiculous nos­
trums as the Anti-Impetigines to the credulous part of
the community ? Such are the dreadful effects of the
press being entrusted to the venal and profligate, who
will not hesitate to publish any puff for money* !
It is really lamentable that his majesty’s attorney-ge­
neral is not informed of such publications as Dr. Bro-
dum’s Guide to Old Age, and Dr. Solomon’s Guide to
Health. PerhapB the moment is approaching when he
may take cognizance of these moral essays, and there can
be little doubt that the sage and beneficent authors will
be amply rewarded. Whoever publishes an obscene
pamphlet is liable to fine, imprisonment, and the pillory.
How muclj greater, then, should the rewardbe of such as
endeavour to poison the health and morals of a people,
by the propagation of falsehood and imposture ? In this
* The authenticity of the following curious anecdote will scarcely
be doubted by any person except a dupe to Quackery. In conse­
quence of an accident which happened through his own inadver­
tence, a Quack was obliged to send for a Physician, who, on feeling
his pulse, declared that he was surprised to find him so much alarmed
when there were such trifling symptoms o f indisposition. (* Not
so very trifling as you imagine,” replied the Quack, “ for to tell
you the truth, / have swallowed some of my own nostrum in a
mistake,*
C 3 light
3*
■ th
is light the attorney-general tray think proper to re­
commend a trip to Botany Bay to these beneficent doc­
tors. There they might administer their nostrums to
the colonists, and fraternise with their respectable friend
and fellow-labourer for the public good, Mr; George
Barrington !
On the other hand it may be asserted, that doctors of
tuch transcendent skHI could not be spared out of Eng­
land. But as cavillers have often complained that our
advertisingphyskians accept a pecuniary compensation
for their public services, tliie might be obviated by plac­
ing them in some receptacle appropriated to the im­
provement of public morals— in Bridewell for instance.
There they would have the pleasure of meeting with se­
veral of their former patients, not only restored to health,
but employed in preparing hemp for the benefit of the
community.
In tills school of morality and physic, Dr. Brodum,
Dr. Solomon, Mr. Perkins, Dr. Senate, and severs! ether
benign sages, might prepare and dispense their medicines
gratis, and this mode of exercising their skill would
effectually silence their calumniators. Among the va­
rious improvements of this enlightened age, we might
then boast of having converted an English House of Cor-
reckon into what it was originally designed to be— A
Temple of Health and Morality; and advertising physi­
cians would soon cease to impose upon the credulous
part of the community
With
* The fallowing observations of an indignant moralist in the year
1*774, arc but too applicable to the present tim e:
In
a i
With regard to the respective merit of the German
and English Quacks, it would be difficult to determine
which is best entitled to our approbation. Dr. S. being a
Jew of our own growth, probably considers Dr. B. as an
interloper. W e do not hear that either of these practi­
tioners are popular among their brethren. The children
In every part o f this kingdom we sec noble institutions for the
distempered poor; but no pains are taken to rescue them out of the
talons of impudent Empirics, especially o f foreign impostors, who, to
the disgrace o f our legislature, ate suffered to prey upon the purses
and lives of our fellow-subjects, and ate grown so hardened, through
the toleration given them, as to beset us at every turn and corner in
all parts of our great metropolis, with a false catalogue of their inful*
tibte specifics. I consider these impostors among the most danger­
ous pests of this society. They wage eternal war against the public
health ; and working upon the whim, the timidity, the despair, the
hope, or superstition of weak minds, debilitated still more pcihaps by
a sickly frame o f body, they scruple not to assert any falsehood
whatever that may inveigle these deluded victims to their sacrifice*
if Finding their bare assertion insufficient to establish the ere*
dibility of their miracles, they have recourse to pretended proof by
oath. For this appeal to the Deity, being the highest evidence
which human laws have been able to devise, they are perfectly
aware, that the same means which gain belief in courts of justice,
may engage it likewise to admit the veracity of their pretended
cures. Thus the supreme test o f truth which ought to be kept
sacred in the hands of the executive power, for the ends o f public
good and justice, becomes audaciously prostituted every day, by
these unprincipled miscreants, these panders o f perjury, who stiike
the balance of population, and will not suffer the race to increase !”
^■ Sketches o f the Times, p. 1 1'l.
C 4 of
ci Abraham arc too cunning to give their monish for
cither the Nervous Cordial or even the Balm of Gilead it­
self! Indeed, the incredulity of the Israelites is prover­
bial. Dr Solomon is doubtless skilled in the virtues of
every simple, “ from the cedar that grows in Lebanon to
the hyssop that grows on the w a l l a n d he even seems
to excel the German empiric by experiments upon those
assenine bipeds who swallow his cordial. Fair dames, who
are desirous to imbibe instruction at the fountain head,
have now a fine opportunity to gratify their curiosity :
and we may expect to hear of some fashionable demireps
visiting the wise man of Liverpool, as the Queen of
Sheba did his namesake at Jerusalem.
Dr. Senate, like a benevolent philosopher, has endea­
voured to remedy the waste occasioned by the sword,
by Lozenges of Steel, which will render even sterility itself
prolific. It is remarkable that the Quack should think
it necessary, in a public advertisement, to u declare so­
lemnly that no person living, except himself and another
person, ever saw or has any knowledge of the preparation
from which Les Pastilles Martialles de Montpellier, or
Aromatic Lozenges of Steel, are p rep ared — This metal
has ever been either an excellent friend or formidable
enemy to the human race, according to the use to which
it was applied. The Poet says,
*< What time would spare from steel receives its date,
And monuments, like man, submit to fate ;
Steel could the labours o f the gods destroy,
And strike to dust fh* imperial towVs of Troy$
Steel
33
Steel could the works of mortal pride confound,
And hew triumphal arches to the ground ;
What wonder then, fair dame, thy health should feel
The conquering force of unresisted steel !
Indeed there is the greatest probability that such ladies
as are rash enough to swallow the metalline tonic of
Dr. S. will have but too much reason to agree with the
poet.
Few persons will have the hardihood to deny the
power of steel. As apolitical medicine, it has been pretty
liberally dispensed onthe Continent, to the destruction
of myriads of the human species ; but how pills of the
same metal can be conducive to population, is extremely
paradoxical indeed.
Peace is rather inauspicious to the Doctor's celebrity ;
for his lozenges will undoubtedly fall into disrepute, in
consequence of the return of our soldiers and sailors.
The most sceptical mortal will hardly doubt that the
exertions of those heroes will increase the population of
the United Kingdom more in oneyeart than the universal
administration of the Lozenges of Steel would be able to
effect in a century.
Next to the physicians who have recommended inter­
nal medicines to the public, may be mentioned those emi­
nent surgeons who have distinguished themselves by pro*
fcuing to cure external ailments.
The most remarkable of these is Mr. B. D. Perkins,
whose far-famed Tractors have dispensed health in both
hemispheres. So just is the eulogium cf the poet—
Arm’d with twin skewers, see Perkins, by main force,
Drag the foul fiend from Christian and from horse !'*
C S In
34
In the preface of a pamphlet, entitled <
€The Influence
of the Metallic Tractors on the Human Body,” we are
informed, that “ the writer has crossed the Atlantic and
become a resident of London that he may devote his
time and attention to the diffusion of this important dis­
covery, and its application to the relief of the miseries of
mankind.”
Excellent and philanthropic young man f disinterested
son of a generous father! thou hast ventured thy life
over the innumerable waves of the vast Western Ocean,
and hastened on the wings of Zephyrus, with healing in
thy Tractors, to remove diseases from Britain ! What re­
ward can be adequate to thy services! If the small re­
muneration of five guineas a brace be an insufficient com­
pensation, thou mayest, O friend Perkins, receive the
more glorious recompense of academic honours, which
the professors of the liberal sciences in Aberdeen are so
willing to bestow, gratuitously, on merit. But perhaps,
friend, the price of a few sets of thy Tractors might ac­
celerate this desirable event; and it is not improbable,
'that, instead of a personal examination, the sage profes­
sors would be content with examining the batik-notes in­
closed in thy letter.
Although Mr. P. has obtained a patent, he observes
that it is not his intention to withhold the advantages of
the discovery from the public, who may be supplied with
his curious instruments for the moderate price ofjive gui-
neas a set9which Mr. P* considers as a trifle /
After giving what he calls an historical sketch of the
* Dr. Johnson calls London " the needy villain’s general home.”
♦
discovery,
35
discovery, Mr. P. authenticates the efficacy of his won-
derous Tractors by a number of experiments.
A letter written by J. Tilton, an American M. D.
contains the following passage :— “ Even Messmer, in
his application of the metals, was patronised by the
ablest physicians in Germany, until he covered and ob­
scured those simple facts, which should have been im­
proved for the benefit of society, with empiricalfrauds,
that had no object beyond the accumulation of moneyJ*
Had this learned Doctor addressed the inventor of the
Metallic Tractors with— u Got and do thou likewise”
he might have proved that he had been advised to
practise im posturebut now what can he say for him­
self ? May he not with propriety exclaim— “ Not con­
tent with imposing on my countrymen, I have sent my
dearly-beloved son to profit by the credulity of Bri­
tons” ?
In this pamphlet Mr. P. asserted, that the Tractors
would cure a burn or scald in a few minutes ; and the
Monthly Reviewers have recommended an experiment to
him, which would certainly put both himself and the
Tractors to a complete ordeal.
“ As the Tractors are generously presented to the
public at only five guineas a pair, it is clear that one pair
would suffice to cure all the burns and scalds of a large
parish. If Mr. P. or any admirer of the discovery, would
submit to have a red-hotpoker run into some part of his
body not necessary to life, in any public coffee-house
within the bills of mortality, and would afterwards heal
the wound in the presence of the company in ten. mi-
c 6 nutes*
30
mutes, or in half as many hours, by meansof the Tractors,
the most iron-hearted infidel could not resist such a de­
monstration,
“ We are rejoiced on Mr. Perkins’s account to find
that the Connecticut Society had only denounced him as
a Messmerist; we trembled lest he should have been put
into the inquisitorial hands of the old women as a white
witch.
“ To trace the relations and dependencies of projects
similar to that of Dr. Perkins, would now be a work of
more labour than utility. The fund of public credulity
is an inexhaustible resource for those who can resolve to
levy contributions on it. In vain is the spirit of Quackery
exorcised in one form ; it rises again immediately,4with
twenty ghastly murders on its head, to push us from our
stools/ W e who have contemplated the progress of
real knowledge, during a long course of years, have seen
many bubbles like this glitter for a moment, and then
disappear for ever. People may talk of Messmcrism and
Pcrkinism ; but we consider all such varieties as belong­
ing to the old and extensive class, Charlatanism
A philosopher, like a prophet, is not esteemed in his
own country. This is evident from the opposition
which Dr. Perkins has experienced in the metallic prac­
tice. The magicians of former ages used only a single
<wand in their conflicts with demons j but, for the greater
certainty, Mr. P. has provided himself and his disciples
with apair of weapons, being thus prepared to parry as
* Monthly Review for April, 1799, p. 464,
well
well as strike in their encounters with the demon of dis­
ease.
Very much to the honour of the clerical body, there are
not wanting a number of reverend abettors of Mr. P.’s
philosophy. Indeed, had the patentee lived in a super­
stitious age, he would probably cither have been burned
as a magician, or worshipped as a legitimate descendant of
Esculapius himself! Even in this age of reason, when
water-closets are constructed on mathematical principles,
we find that excellent man, the Rev. D. T . trotting or
scampering about from house to house, and working mi­
racles on the burnt hands of our silly women with the
T ra ctors0 horrible, O horrible, most horrible! that a
man, whose avocation should be the dispensing of the
bread of life to a Christian household, should spend his
time in applying two skewers to the inflamed and inflam­
ing eyes, bosoms, and hands, of the fair sex! Certainly
this poor man, like the sapient Lord R#* * * * ?is under
the influence of Mr. Perkins’s American familiar demon,
which probably was first conjured up from the abyss of
the Atlantic Ocean by the incantations of Dr. Franklin.
Nor is poor Dr. T . the only divine who suffers by
the morbific influence of this delusion ; the Rev. Mr.
N — — , and several others who profess the knowledge
of the truth, have become so much infatuated as to
u speak smooth things, and prophesy deceits,’’ respect­
ing the virtue of American iron. Is there not some rea­
son to suspect that this shocking deception is occasioned
by a mental disease, and that theVow of Mammon has
instigated these fanatics to perambulate like sorcerers,
armed
38
armed with a pair of iron skewers, and exorcising the de-
xnons of gout, rheumatism, nay, even the god of fire, in
the name of Dr. Perkins ?
Mr. P. confines the magical influence of his Tractors
to the cure of topical diseases ; but has he tried their effi­
cacy in cases of internal complaint ? Perhaps these ad­
mirable bits of metal might, by timely application, reduce
the tympany, a disease to which our female philosophers
are particularly subject. During his operation on the
fair patient, Mr. P. might be able to discover, by his
%
olfactory nerves9 whether the disease was oecasoned by
flatulency, or proceeded from some indigestible sub­
stance.
This humane and disinterested young man has pub­
lished a second pamphlet, in which “ the fallacious at­
tempt of Dr. Haygarth to detract from the merits of the
Tractors, are detected and fully confuted/' This ele­
gant and elaborate treatise, however, is severely criticised
by the Monthly Reviewers, who, contrary to the laws of
hospitality, and not having thefear of the Metallic Tract­
ors before their eyes9 appear determined to expose Mr.
Perkinses deceptions. How impolite ! would it not have
been more liberal in these critics to have exclaimed with
my uncle Toby, tc Go, poor devil, there is room enough
in the world for us and thee. Practise thy impositions
as long as thou findest the people credulous enough to be
duped by thy assertions and the letters of hypocrites” ?
Mr. P. imports his Tractors from America in parcels
of two hundred sets, valued by him at one thousand gui­
neas ! Suppose this miraculous surgeon should dis­
pose
s 9
pose of only the above-mentioned number every week; on
an average we should exchange fifty-two thousand guineas
annually for base-metall O Englishmen ! how long will
you suffer yourselves to be imposed upon by the artifices
of empirics ! How long will you, confessedly the most
wealthy and sensible nation on earth, permit Quack Doc­
tors to prey upon the fruits of your industry !
Many credulous and foolish people in this island, es­
pecially in the metropolis, are very opulent, and often
imagine themselves indisposed when only labouring un­
der the torpor o f indolence. Such beings will purchase
any nostrum, however ridiculous; and their imagination
being roused and amused by making experiments, the
animal spirits acquire a greater degree of activity, and the
doltish individual fancies himself restored to a lively state
of health by such a miraculous operation as rubbing two
iron skewers along his epidermis !
Some metals, if they cannot relieve pain, certainly
communicate pleasure by contact. This is experienced
in the agreeable sensations felt by the nerves when one
receives a purse of gold. Doubtless the pure palm of
Mr. Perkins has often itched for money, or he would
never have ventured so far to impose upon credulous
Englishmen, and barter his iron for our guineas. In­
deed, if Doctor Solomon continues to dissolve our gold
into Cordial Balm, and Mr. Perkins sends such vast
quantities of it to America, that article will soon become
so scarce, that we shall not have one guinea to rub
against another !
Athough the Monthly Reviewers had given their de­
cision
40
cision against Perkins’s Tractors, he very sagaciously
contrived to have a number of his bills sewed in with the
cover of that publication, concluding that the public
would think he had the sanction of the editor. The fact
is, the editor knew nothing of the transaction, and the
spirited and unbiassed critics who support that elegant
Review, have since published their approbation of Dr.
Haygarth’s Essay, and their decisive censure of Mr.
Perkins’s feeble attempt to refute the Doctor’s rea­
soning *.
And now, courteous reader, as we have investigated
the claims, and exposed the fallacy, of the four principal
empirics *vbo infest England^ little remains to be said on
this subject. It is true there are several other miracle-
mongers of inferior note ; such as the vender of Leake’s
Patent Pills ; Dr. Barton's Vital Wine; and that still
more •volatile cordial, Oxygen Gas. But these, as well as
Dr. Squirrel’s Tonic Drops and Powders, Godbold’s
Vegetable Balsam, and De Velno’s Vegetable Syrup, are
too insignificant to require animadversion. Let us now
compare the impostors of the present day with those who
flourished, like rank and obscene weeds, in this capital a
few years ago. The comparison will demonstrate the
superior genius of former empirics over o.ur contempo­
raries.
* See Monthly Review for August, 1801, in which the absurdity
of resorting to such wretched palliatives as two bits of metal, is ex­
posed with that peculiar plesantry and happy vein of humour for
which the Reviewers are to rcmaikable.
The
41
The first of those departedphilosophers who once came
to London with promises of perpetual health and plea­
sure, was the famous Doctor Graham, a Quack, whose
enterprising genius excelled Dr. Brodum and Dr. Solo­
mon
Graham
* Whoever will compare the following advertisement o f Dr. G.
with the dull egotism, that prevails in the puffs o f our modern
Quacks, will be convinced of the superiority o f the former, which,
however extravagant, is entertaining.
T e m p l e of He a l t h , A d e l p h i .
T o their Excellencies the Foreign Ambassadors, to the Kobility,
Gentry, and to Persons o f Learning and Taste.
This and To-morrcw Evening, exactly at Eight ©
’Clock,
The Celestial Brilliancy o f the Medico-clectiical Apparatus of the
Temple will be exhibited by Dr. G raham himself, who will have
the honour of explaining the true nature and effects o f electricity,
air, music, and magnetism, when applied to the human body.
In the introductory oration, the whole art o f enjoying health and
vigour of body and mind, and of preserving and exalting personal
beauty and loveliness ; or, in other words, of living with health and
happiness in this world, for at least an hundred years; is pointed out,
and warmly inculcated.
Previous to the display of the electrical fire, the Doctor will deli­
cately touch upon the Celestial Beds, which are soon to be opened in
the Temple of Hymen, in Pall-Mall, for the propagating of Beings
rational, and far stronger and more beautiful in mental as well as in
bodily endowments, than the present puny, feeble, and nonsensical
race of probationary immortals, which crawl, and fret, aid politely
play at cutting one another's throats for nothing at all, on this terra­
queous globe.
This
42
Graham spoke with decision, and promised his dupes
that they should <
elive with health, honour, and happi­
ness in this world at least one hundred years/* Yet,
poor man, he died ofpremature old age in Edinburgh, and
This apparatus, which visibly displays, as it were, the various fa­
culties o f the material soul of universal and eternal nature, is ac­
knowledged by all, who have seen it, to be by far the largest, most
useful, and most magnificent, that now is, or that ever was, in the
world.”
Since the first edition of this work was published, the egotism of
modern Quacks has assumed a more hyperbolical style, as ifin emu­
lation o f Dr. O .
In The Observer, Dr. Brodum informs us, that, « T o the honour
o f the present age,his Guide to Old A ge, together with his Nervous
Cordial and Botanical Syrup, are in as high and universal request as if
they had been ushered into the world by the whole College of Phy*
ticians; and the health*restoring resident o f Albicm-place stands a$
high in medical repute a$ the great body corporate combined, who
occupy the grand palladium o f physic in W arwick-line.”
This modest instance o f self-praise Is excelled by a paragraph In
jone of the Bath newspapers. “ Jf any discovery could possibly add
laurels to thefume of Dr. Solomon, afrer the many services he has
rendered the community by his invaluable Balm o f Gilead, it is cer­
tainly that most excellent medicine the Anti-Impetigines, the disco­
very o f which is pot to be paralleled in the whole Materia Me*
dica,"
These diffident sages must feel a consciousness of the benefit de­
rived by society from their medical labours * and perhaps they may
be considered as the weeders of the human rucey who, by the re­
moval o f dissolute and diseased dupes to Quackery^ leave room for
the healthy part of the community to flourish.
his
43
c hi's dissolution was accelerated by intemperance. Our
^ modern Quacks are too cunning to mention any particu­
lar period of longevity, lest their pretensions should be
' compared with those of former deceivers. Even as lite-
terary candidates, the performance of Dr. S.and Dr. B.
■ will shrink into insignificance when contrasted with the
.. energy which animates Dr. Graham’s advertisements ;
i^and he informs us, that his pamphlet “ run through three
large editions in one w e e k a sale unequalled by the
|i pretended extensive circulation mentioned by Dr. Solo-
ft: xnon in his newspaper puffs*
A Mr. Lattese evinced wonderful superiority of skill
to that of Dr. Senate. The latter, indeed, by the aid of
his martial •lozenges, proposes to conferfecundity ; but
Mr. Lattese, in his researches, discovered a secret by
\vhich parents, who were desirous of an heir male,
' u shouldpositively have a boy -Could Dr. Senate per-
* form such a miracle, there is little doubt that, like the
Spartans of ancient Greece, we should soon be the most
r warlike people in modem Europe- Heroes, whose ori*
gin was derived from steel, would certainly be invincible,
and adorn their native land with military glory. But
should the Doctor’s lozenges inspire children of both
sexes with martial ardour, we might dread the revival of
Amazonian valour, and all the concomitant horrors of /«-
r testine commotion«
Another empiric who flourished in this capital a few
r years since, was much superior to Mr. Perkins in the
, cure of topical diseases. This philosopher, the sapient
Mr- Buzaglo, for “ a trifling expencef cured the gout,
rheumy-
44
rheumatism, &c- u though of ever so long standing, lit
the space of an hour, and restored within a few days
wasted calves to their former state of fulness of flesh.*’
He also informed the public, that “ patients might agree
for a perfect cure, or by the month, by theyear, orfor life!”
How accommodating was this beneficent physician!
Were Mr. Perkins to make similar proposals, what upu.
lent patient would scruple to give him five guineas fora
pair of skovers! It is much to be regretted that B
u
*
zaglo was not more liberally rewarded, as, in conse­
quence of neglect, his inestimable secret is lost to th
e
community. Might not a similar misfortune happen to
poor Mr. Perkins, if the public should withdraw its p
a
*
tronage ?
W e shall conclude this article with an account ofa few
experiments made with the most popular Quack M
edi*
cines; observations on the general, moraly and physical
effects of a belief in the efficacy of nostrums; and a
few hints submitted to the consideration of Valetudi­
narians.
The following account of the effects of Quack M
edi-
cines administered by a respectable farmer, will illustrate
their general utility.
Mr. Thomas Wilkinson, a rich farmer of Avondale,
near Stratford-upon-Avon, in Warwickshire, is one o
f
those queer fellows who examine every novel improve­
ment before they give it their sanction. With th
e
greatest good-nature imaginable, this singular true-born
Englishman is rather incredulous respecting the efficacy
of nostrums; the excellent moral effects of the new phi­
losophy;
>sophy; the equality of the sexes ; and similar paradoxes
*\liich engage the attention of the learned and ingenious
« v
1 this enlightened age.
Possessing a sound constitution, in consequence of a
; fe of temperance, Mr. W . is particularly incredulous
’?'ith regard to human skill in the prevention and cure of
isease. Indeed his aversion to the tribe of Esculapius
so great, that he often repeats the sentiment of Dry-
^n, God never made his work for man to mend”
hich he considers as an axiom. When slightly indis-
>sed, a friend advised him to take a medicine ; but the
rmer with a sarcastic smile replied, “ Throw physic to
e dogs, I’ll none of i t !” He has more respect for chi-
'irgical skill; for, as he justly observes, ** a man who
n bind up a fracture or dress a wound, is of real-utility,
~:hilea physician who prescribes merely from observa-
may sometimes aid, but will be more liable to ob-
; "net the operations of nature.”
^ T h is rural philosopher finding that several of his neigh-
;3
<
1>urs were under the influence of credulity, and that
me of them had even gone so far as to purchase patent
^dicinej, he resolved to undeceive them if possible. For
?
>
rjs purpose he collected a quantity of the most cele-
ited nostrums, and convened the villagers on a bowl-
#-.green in front of his mansion, where, after giving
:; m an excellent dinner in the style of true English ho-
i:’ tality, he produced his medicines, and ordered his ser-
" its to bring forward the patients on whom the experi-
•
f" nts were to be tried.
: \n unfortunate ass was first produced, to the no small
ii- amuse*
46
amusement of the villagers, but farmer Wilkinson rt*
quested them to be attentive: “ You do not know,”
said he, “ how much your own health depends on the
success of my experiments this day.” Saying this, h
e
approached with great gravity, and administered a whole
bottle of Dr. Brodum’s Nervous Cordial to the poor qua­
druped, which, on swallowing the dose, brayed m
ost
horribly. The victim of Quackery thenfell down inafit,
from which he was roused by throwing a pailful of water
in his face; but had it not been for an emollient drench
administered by a skilful farrier, the animal would cer­
tainly have expired under the operation of the nostrum.
The villagers were amazed, and looked with horror on
the ass as he was led away to his stall. An old woman,
however, who was as remarkable for her eloquence as her
obstinacy, very judiciously observed, u that the farm
er
had not given the medicine a fair trial, for that only afew
tea-spoonfuls should have been administered at once”
The young- people laughed at the idea of an ass being
drenched with a tea-spoon ; but Mr. Wilkinson declared,
that he thought Dame Crabtree might be in the right;
“ You shall have a whole bottle of the Nervous Cordial,”
said he, “ if you will consent to take a dose of it eveiy
evening, and I have no doubt that in a short tim
e
you will be cured of your propensity to scandal an
d
scolding.” — “ No, thank ye,” replied s h e , y o u arevery
kind indeed ; so you want to poison me as well as th
e
poor ass, do you
A bottle of Doctor Solomon’s Anti-Impetigines w
as
then uncorked, and a hog brought forward as the patient
m
l
/
on whom its benign effects were to be tried. The ani­
mal yelled most hideously while the medicine was
poured down its throat, and afterwards ran about as if
mad, endeavouring to bite every thing within its reach.
The women shrieked and took to their heels, but th£
men compelled the swinish patient to retire to the middle
of the circle, which they formed round it, and in a few
minutes it lay down, and continued to grunt mostpiteously
till it feel fast asleep.— “ There's the blessed effects of
nostrums for you, my friends,” cried Wilkinson, with an
air of triumph ; u I thought I should be able to deve-
lope imposture.”
While the people were employed in making philoso­
phical reflections on the medicated hog, a cat was pro­
duced, and in spite of her mewing and scratching, she
was compelled to swallow one of Dr. Senate’s Lozenges of
Steel. To describe the convolutions and contortions of
poor puss, would be impossible ; no squirrel or monkey
on a chain ever exhibited such a variety of postures,
while her mewings expressed the pain which her bowels
endured- A salutary evacuation afforded her relief; but
the women whispered among themselves, that no conside­
ration should induce them to suffer such agonies.
The last experiment was made with Perkins's Metallic
Tractors, a set of which had been purchased by Mr. W .
in order to convince his neighbours of their inefficacy.
He had received these wonderful instruments a few day?
before, and desired the village blacksmith to make him
half a dozen iron skewers of the same size. An old
kitchen poker was, by the force of fire, and the skill of
the
47
48
the artist, transformed into a number of skewers, which,
though not so well polished as the Metallic Tractors,
were equally valuable in the estimation of the farmer.
He first enquired whether any person present was
afflicted with aches or pains. Dame Thomson came for­
ward, and declared that she felt a slight rheumatic pain
In one of her arms. u O we’ll soon remove that,” cried
the farmer; ** here are a pair of the famous Metallic
Tractors that you have so often heard o f; they cure all
pains.” Saying this, he applied the home-made skewers,
and the woman, with apparent pleasure, exclaimed, “ I
protest, dear Sir, you have cured me already $ my arm
is quite well again!”
Wilkinson suppressed a laugh, and ordered his house­
dog to be brought forward. Poor Pompcy came, and
the farmer desired one of his servants to sear the animal's
foot slightly, that he might prove the efficacy of the
Tractors in curing a burn. He then applied the gentdne
American metal to the burnt part, in presence of all
his neighbours; but, notwithstanding the various geome­
trical figures which he drew upon the spot, Pompey
continued to yelp and wail, and when let loose, limped
away to his kennel.
The farmer then addressed the people:— MYou have
this day,” said he, “ discovered the inefficacy of Patent
and Quack Medicines; let me never again hear any of
you extol such ridiculous palliatives, which seem to
mock pain and disease instead of giving relief. As for
the miracle performed on the arm of Dame Thomson, it
was effected by part of my old kitchen poker, which Ben
Perkins)
49
Perkins, our blacksmith, took to the smithy yesterday
and hammered into skewers/' While he spoke* poor
Mrs. Thomson, who had only imagined she was cured,
felt a sudden tingling in her arm, and went home to
wrap it up in flannel, while the rest of the villagers re­
tired with a thorough conviction that the cures said to be
performed by nostrums were imaginary, and that such
preparations were only invented by fraudulent Quacks
for the purpose of profiting by the credulity of man­
kind.
But the prejudice of an illiterate farmer can have little
influence upon the enlightened and philosophic part of
the community, who have long been advocates for won­
derful discoveries;— miracles performed by oxygen gas,
and the gradual progress of corporeal and mental per-
Jiedibility.
It is to be regretted, however, that empirical physians
continue detached; nay, even averse to each other; when
they might, by a combination of their talents, contribute
to the happiness of the public*.
An
* When the ingenious Mr. Brodum first obtained the title of
Doctor, he circulated a number of pamphlets giving an account of
cures; but the printer, by transposition, made it appear as if the
effects of the medicine had been pernicious:— u A young man of
Shoe-lane, w
ho had lost the use of his limbs for six months by Dr.
Brodum*$Nervous Cordial, was cured - .**
One of these pamphlets falling into the hands of a humourist, who
was acquainted with another quack, he wrote in his name to Dr. B .;
and after commending the German for his candour, in publicly ac-
D kncwledging
50
An emperor among the ancients offered a reward to
whoever could invent a new amusement; and in this age
o f refinement we daily see the discoveries of genius libe­
rally patronised by the community. Let our Quack
Doctors then coalesce, and profit by the universal pas­
sion for something new*
Under the sanction of the Lord Chamberlain, a most
amusing dramatic entertainment might be performed, un­
der the denomination of The Grand Pantomimic-farcical•
tragi-comical Drama. This institution might be con­
ducted by our most celebrated medical operators, Doc­
tors Brodum, Solomon, Senate, and Gardner, together
with that matchless surgeon, Mr. Perkins, united in one
firm for the cure of all diseases incident to man.
Their theatre might be a temporary structure of wood,
knowledging the injurious effects o f his nostrum, he concluded with
observing, " but you should have said ke teas cured—-fry Dr. W7$
Incomparable BalsamP* This letter brought on a most furious
correspondence between the two empirics, who were equally abusive,
illiterate, and ignorant.
Dr. W . may be considered, as a medical swindler, rather than a
destroyer of mankind. He travels through England in a one-horse
chaise, with a quantity of calomel, vitriol, Sec. which he administers
in pills and syrups. He confesses, that, as he is convinced he can
do the people no good, he is determined to do them no harm, except
by duping them o f their money. It is said, that in one summer he
obtainedfifteen hundredpounds by his itinerant practice ! Such is the
good-natured but ridiculous credulity ofjohn Bull, who readily" gives
his goldfor tfcoi which sufficeth not /”
emblematical
54
emblematic of the transitory nature of all earthly bless­
ings. Before the curtain drew up, a number of swine,
cats, parrots, peacocks, and owls, might, by the *concord
of sweet sounds/ harmonise the minds of the audience.
The first scene should exhibit a number of old men and
women hobbling in on crutches, and groaning^ to the
great delight of the hearers, while Mr. Perkins, like a
kind magician, came forward, and by touching the old
women with his talismanic Tractors, they should appear
suddenly restored to health and ease. Meanwhile Dr.
Gardner, like Jupiter Tonans, might, by the force of his
electric fire, expel the demon of pain from the distorted
limbs of the old men. Thus perfectly cured, as if by
miracle, the happy assemblage might dance in a circle
round the two philosophers, and afterwards inarch off
the stage with acclamations of joy.
The next scene should exhibit Dr. Brodum busily em­
ployed in preparing his Nervous Cordial and Botanical
Syrup, by an intermixture of different oils and simples,
from jars, gallipots, and bottles; while his great col­
league, Dr. Solomon, appeared on the opposite side of
the stage, ardently engaged in bottling his Cordial Balm
of Gilead and Anti-Impetigines. In a short dialogue, the
Doctors might exhort each other to persevere in de­
ceiving the credulous, by selling a few intermingled
simples as efficacious specifics*
On the arrival of several patients being announced, the
scene should change to a spacious apartment, the orna­
ments of which should be—
“ An alligator stuff’d, and other skins
O f iU-shap’d fishes; and about the shelves
p 2 A beggarly
52
A beggarly account of empty boxes,
Green earthen ]>ots, bladders, and musty seeds,
Remnants o f packthread, and old cakes o f roses.’ *
Here a multitude of young and old, of both sexes,
might appear in masquerade^ exhibiting the most cadave­
rous and emaciated visages imaginable* On the entrance
of the two Doctors, as they are both remarkable for the
modesty oftheirproposals and the elegance of their manners,
they should, in a low voice, enquire into the nature of
each particular case. Indeed this would afford an excel­
lent opportunity for pantomimic gesticulation, as the
patients might give an affecting idea of their tortures, by
the distortions of their limbs, accompanied with shrieks
and groans.
After this ceremony, on a bell being rung, two ser­
vants should enter with the celebrated nostrums. While
Dr. Brodum administered his restorative Cordial^or Syrupy
Dr. Solomon might alsopour out the vial of his AntUlm-
petlginesy or his Balm, as each particular case should re­
quire. An instantaneous cure, as if by miracle, should
succeed this operation, which might be very naturally
represented by the masks falling off, while the real faces
presented the bloom of health, and the freshness and
lustre of youthful vigour, to the admiring eyes of the
astonished spectators.
The happy train thus miraculously healed, might ex­
press their gratitude to their benefactors in a song. In
order to render the stage-effect more impressive, the three
beneficent sages before mentioned might enter and join
their venerable brethren, while the whole posse of infe­
rior
53
rior venders of specifics and panaceas should appear,
forming a magnificent procession. When the whole as­
semblage of miracle-mongers were collected in the middle
ofthe stage, Ju s t i c e should be represented as descending
from heaven, and by one touch of her fiery sword the
ground should open beneath the feet of the beneficent
advertising physicians and their satellites, while they
sunk toErebusprofound, and a vast volume of sulphureous
flame issued from the Tartarean abyss, similar to the ca­
tastrophe of Abomclique, in Blue Beard, or Female Cu­
riosity*
We talk of the morality of tragedy, but this pantomime
would be more instructive than any other species of pub­
lic amusement. What could be more interesting than
first to behold so many wretches relieved from the torture
of disease, and restored to health and beauty! The man
of pleasure would doubtless retire from the scene with a
determination to indulge in his habitual voluptuousness,
while such effectual restoratives could be purchased to
renovate his animal spirits; and the public in general
might evince a generous contempt For temperance and
virtue, while health, happiness, and immortality, could be
conferred by the skilful hand of the empiric.
So great has been the difference of opinion respecting
Quack Doctors, that while some persons have extolled •
them as demigods, others have depreciated them as mis­
creants ; but from the foregoing sketch, is it not evident
that such philosophers are an honour to human nature ?
Cynical beings may stigmatise our advertising physicians
with the opprobrious appellation of impostors, but the
D 3 good-
54
good-natured part of the community prove, by the avi­
dity with which they purchase nostrums, that such asper­
sions are misapplied.
Seldom, indeed, have such extraordinary instances of
philanthropy appeared as the present age can boast. We
may talk of Howard visiting'lazarettoes, and descending
to dungeons, like an angel of consolation, endeavouring
to mitigate human misery; we may extol the sublime
charity of that excellent man, whose purse was ever open
to relieve the necessitous; nay, we may aver, that Dr,
Mead voluntarily went to Madrid, and ventured his life
to assist in curing the plague in that city. These were
divine men it is true ; but if we compare the enterprise
and philanthropy of Dr. B. or Mr. P. with theirs, is not
the superiority of our contemporaries manifest ?
Did not Dr. Brodum resign an occupation in which he
might have lived at his eaie ; and did he not endure the
fatigue of travelling on foot with a box filled with cordials
and syrups for the relief of the sick ? Did not the mag­
nanimous Mr. Perkins, in open defiance of the winds
and waves, traverse the vast Atlantic Ocean, to work mi­
racles in this favoured isle ?— and, for aight we know to
the contrary, did not Dr. Solomon, like a witch on a
broomstick, take his flight on the back of Mahomet's
dove to Mecca, thence to Mount Gilead, and home
again to Liverpool, loaded, like the bee, with his pre­
cious Balm9 and still more costly Anti-Impetigines i
Admirable men ! who to all these toils have superadded
the anxiety inseparably connected with the love of moneys
which is theroot ofagreaterevil than the scrofula itself, that
incurable
55
incurable disease — remorseless avarice f Doctor Solo­
mon, indeed, has not obtained equal celebrity with the
two benign foreigners, but he may jiistly be classed
with those celebrated physicians, Rock and Graham*
The admirable Doctor Senate is, from the powers of
his prolific genius, entitled to rank with Doctor Faustus
himself!
But while numbers are ready to acknowledge the uti­
lity of Quackery, which in many instances may be said
to cut off the useless members of society, as a skilful bo­
tanist lops his trees; there are others who proudly
claim the privilege of thinking for themselves; and, from
a seeming love of contradiction, condemn the whole host
of empirics. One of these censors, who has written on
the subject of specifics, says, “ that an universal remedy,
or one that possesses healing powers for the cure of all
diseases, is, in fact, a non-entity, the existence of which
is physically impossible, as the mere idea of it involves
a direct contradiction. How, for instance, can it be
conceived that the same remedy should be capable of re­
storing the tone of the fibres when they are relaxed, and
also have the power of relaxing them when they are too
rigid ?
u Indeed the belief in an universal remedy appears to
lose ground every day, though the lower and less en­
lightened classes of the community are still imposed
upon by a set of privileged impostors, who frequently
puzzle the intelligent reader to decide, whether the bold­
ness or the industry with which they endeavour to esta-
d 4 blish
56
blish the reputation of their respective poisons, be the
most prominent feature in their character
Sometimes an apparent cure by a quack medicine is
productive of a more painful disease. Thus, an ulcer
healed may be only the closing of the orifice, while the
morbid matter, by taking another course, may form an
incurable imposthumc. A celebrated quacksalver in
this metropolis, recently sent a patient to the u undisco­
vered country, from whose bourne no traveller returns,”
by healing an ulcer in his leg. In a few days the empi­
ric was met by the widow, who returned him thanks for
the favour, by saying, “ God bless you, Sir, you cured
my husband, but he died in three weeks afterwards.”
Such is the safety and benefit of tampering with medi­
cine.
Empirics are permitted by the laws to practise with
impunity. Our ancestors, indeed, who prevented, or
rather repelled, disease by a life of temperance, nevtr
conceived that any human being could be so depraved as
to defraud another of his money and his life, under the
pretext of alleviating pain and restoring health. A still
more powerful protection to impostors, is derived from
the tax paid by them to the State for advertisements and
patents. But even in France, Messmer’s fraudulent pre­
tences were discovered and punished: why then should*
* In a single list of patent medicines there are nearly three /tun-
dred enumerated far the cure of diffeient diseases ! and the vender
says, that to prevent the dangerous consequences that frequently re­
sult from counterfeit medicines was the motive that first induced him
to open his warehouse.— Beneficent man 1
similar
57
similar impositions be pursued in this capital with impu­
nity ? Is the paltry sum obtained by a duty on patent
medicines to be put in the balance in opposition to the
health of a single buli'vldual? No* Were some public-
spirited member of the legislature to bring in a bill for
the suppression of this iniquitous branch of trade, he
would be the preserver of many wretched beings, who,
in the moment of pain, are glad to seek relief from no­
strums, “ as drowning men catch at straws.” Alas l
what numbers of infatuated mortals swallow the delete­
rious preparations of the Quack, and sink under the com­
bined pressure of disease and medicine; who, had they
been left to the simple efforts of nature, would have re­
covered, and lived healthy and happy for many years !
What an afflicting thought! and who, that has a heart
to feel, would not endeavour to prevent the further pro­
gress of empirical homicide*.
# <
< So great are the difficulties o f tracing out the hidden causes
o f the evils to which this frame of ours is subject, that the most
candid of the profession have ever allowed and lamented how una­
voidably they are in the dark— So that the ftest medicines, admini­
stered with the wisest heaJs, shall often do the mischiefthey were
intended toprevent! But when men without skill— without edu­
cation-—without knowledge, either of the distemper, orevenofwhat
they sell,—make merchandise of the miserable, and,from adisho*
nest principle, trifle with the pains of the unfortunate, too often
with their H
oes, and from the mere motive o f a dishonest gain ,—
every such instance of a person bereft of life by the hand of igno­
rance, is murder in the true sense ; which, though not cognizable,
by our laws,— by the laws of right, every man’s own mind and
conscience must appear equally black and-detestable” Sterns.
d $ Dissolute
58
Dissolute young men arc induced to continue in the
practice of their pernicious habits of wantonness and ex­
cess, from the mistaken idea that a nostrum will operate
as an effectual restorative. Young girls are also permit-
ted to indulge in the use of confections, which, from
their heating nature, and the superabundance of nutri­
ment they supply, generate disease. Health and beauty
are at once injured, and licentiousdeslres kindled; so that,
both in a moral and physical sense, children should be
prevented from an indulgence in luxuries. The blessings
of temperance, a healthy body and serene mind, will
give a richer zest to the bounties of Divine Providence ;
and the predominance of intellectual over sensual plea­
sure, will exalt the happy individual in the rank of ra­
tional and thinking beings! One truth must excite
some degree o f alarm in the heart of the epicure. It is
well known that substances in themselves salutary, may,
when intermingled with others, become rank poison.
Hence the fatal effects of eating a variety of viands, or
mingling liquids of a heterogeneous nature, have doubt­
less precipitated myriads to an untimely tomb! This is
commonly called dying of a surfeit. O man ! if you
would enjoy health and long-life, restrain your appe­
tites, remove the savoury but destructive viands, and
fling the Circean cup of intoxication from your trembling
hand!
Domestic Quackery is another source of calamity to
mankind. Lady Bountiful in the country, and Lady
Languish in town, pique themselves upon their skill and
humanity, insomuch, that on the slightest indisposition,
some
59
some cordial or cataplasm is prescribed. Hence the con*
stitution of whoever is so unfortunate as to be reared
under their auspices, becomes like a green-house plant,
and shrinks beneath every shange of the atmosphere.
Were Nature left to herself, most slight diseases, such as
rheumatic pains, tooth-ache, and colds, would be gra­
dually cured by the exertions of the constitution, leaving
the convalescent vigorous and alert, instead of the lan­
guor produced by laudanum and a diversity of medi­
cines, which only clog the wheels of the animal ma­
chine.
Young persons who wish to obtain medical informa­
tion, combined with amusement, will be amply gratified
by the perusal of Armstrong’s Art of Preserving Health ;
a poem, in which the best physical instruction is con­
veyed, through the inchanting medium of pleasing and
perspicuous language.
On the subject of cleanliness, the poet says :—
« Ablution just enough to clear
The sluices o f the skin, enough to keep
The body sacred from indecent soil.
Still to be pure, e'en did it not conduce
(As much it does) to health, were greatly worth
Your daily pains: ’tis this adorns the rich j
The want of this is .poverty's worst foe ;
W ith this external virtue age maintains
A decent grace ; without it youth and charms
Are loathsome: this the venal graces know,
So doubtless do your wives.”
i L
A
t
His advice with regard to food well deserves the atten­
tion of the reader;—
- Avoid the cates
That lull the sicken'd appetite too long,
Or heave with feverish flushings all the face,
Burn in the palms, or parch the rough'ning tongue,
Sated with Nature's boons what thousands seek.
W ith dishes tortur'd from their native taste
And mad variety, to spur beyond
Its wiser will the jaded appetite!
Is this for pleasure ? learn a juster taste,
And know that remp’rance is true luxury.
Avoid the stubborn aliment, avoid
T h e full repast, and let sagacious age
Grow wiser.
— — Beyond the sense
O f light refection at the genial board
Indulge not often, nor protract the feast
T o dull satiety, till soft and slow
A drowsy death creeps on th’ expansive soul,
Oppress'd and smother'd the celestial Are.
W hat dextrous thousands just within the goal
O f wild debauch direct their nightly course 1
But ah, what woes remain! life rolls apace,
And that incurable disease, old age,
In youthful bodies more severely felt,
More sternly active, shakes their blasted prime,
And sows the temples with untimely snow.**
Armstrong, as well as several other medical writers, re­
commends water as the most excellent diluent. But he
did
6 0
did not consider what a degree of self-denial was requi­
site to render a man content with such insipid beverage in
a city where liquors of the most grateful flavour, the
most delightful colour, and cheering nature, are perpe­
tually soliciting his taste. Indeed, it may be said, that a
species of luxurious hydrophobia is epidemical, not only in
London, but throughout England- W e shall quote the
advice of the poet, though it is very questionable, in­
deed, whether the lyre of Apollo himself could prevail
Upon the people to prefer water to ale.
“ Learn temperance, friends I and hear without disdain
The choice o f water.
Nothing like simple element dilutes
The food, or gives the chyle so soon to flow ;
But where the stomach indolent and cold
Toys with its duty, animate with wine.'”
Hoffman says, “ If there be any universal medicine in
nature it is water; for by its assistance all distempers
are alleviated or cured, and the body preserved sound
and free from corruption, that enemy to life.”
Addison, who may be considered as a physician of the
mind, and whose moral precepts also embraced the sanity
of the body, expatiates on the necessity of temperance
and exercise with his peculiar perspicuity and strength.
His elegant dissertations being more delightful and in­
structive than any medical treatise, we shall extract a
few passages for the information of the youthful reader.
“ E x e r c i s e is the most effectual physic- The gene­
ral idea of a human body, without considering it in the
niceties.
6 2
niceties of anatomy, let us see how absolutely necessary
labour is for the right preservation of it. Labour or ex­
ercise ferments the humours, casts them into their proper
channel, throws off redundancies, and helps Nature in
those secret distributions, without which the body can­
not exist in its vigour, nor the soul act with cheerful­
ness.
“ I might here mention the effects which this has upon
all the faculties of the mind, by keeping the understand­
ing clear, the imagination untroubled, and refining those
spirits which are necessary for the proper exertion of our
intellectual faculties, during the present laws of union
between soul and body. It is to a neglect in this parti­
cular that we must ascribe the spleen, which is so frequent
in men of studious and sedentary tempers; as well as the
vapours, to which those of the other sex are so often
subject.
u I shall in this place mention another great preservation
of health, which in many cases produces the same effect
as exercise, and may, in some measure, supply its place,
where opportunities of exercise are wanting. The pre•
fcrvativel am speaking of is T e m p e r a n c e , which has
those particular advantages above all other means of health,
that it may be practised by all ranks and conditions, at
any season, or in any place. It is a kind of regimen into
which every man may put himself without interruption
of bufiness, expence of money, or loss of time. If exer­
cise throws off all superfluities, temperance prevents
them; if exercise clears the vessels, temperance neither
satiates nor oveistrains them; if exercise raises proper fer­
ments
X
63
ments in the humours, and promotes the circulation of the
blood, temperance givesNature her full play, and enables
her to exert herself in all her force and vigour; if exercise
dissipates a growing distemper, temperance starves it.
u Physic, for the most part, is nothing else but a sub­
stitute for exercise or temperance. Medicines are, in­
deed, absolutely necessary in acute distempers, that cannot
wait the slow operations of these two great instruments
of health ; but did men live in an habitual course of ex­
ercise and temperance, there would be but little occasion
for them.
“ It is impossible to lay down any determinate rule for
temperance, because what is luxury in one may be tem­
perance in another; but there are few that have lived any
time in the world, who are not judges of their own con­
stitution, so far as to know what kinds and what propor­
tion of food do best agree with them. Were I to con­
sider my readers as my patients, and to prescribe such a
kind of temperance as is accommodated to all persons,
and such as is particularly suited to our climate and way
of living, I would copy the following rules of a very emi­
nent physician. Make your whole repast out of one dish.
If you indulge in a second, avoid drinking any thing strong
until you have finished your meal; at the same time ab­
stain from all sauces, or at least from such as are not the
most plain and simple. Were I to prescribe a rule for
drinking, it would be formed upon a saying quoted by
Sir William Temple ; the first glass for myself, the second
for my friends, the third for good humour, and the fourth
for my enemies. But because it is impossible for one
who
*
64
who lives in the world to diet himfelf always in so philo­
sophic a manner, I think every man should have his day9
of abstinence, according as his constitution will permit*
These are great reliefs to nature, as they qualify it for
struggling with hunger and thirst, whenever any distem­
per or duty of life may put it upon such difficulties ; and
at the same time give it an opportunity of extricating itself
from its oppressions, and recovering the several tones and
springs of its distorted vessels. Besides, that abstinence
well timed often kills a fckness in the embrio, and destroys
thefirst seeds o f an indisposition• It is observed by two or
three ancient authors, that Socrates, notwithstanding he
lived in Athens during the great plague which has made so
great a noise throughout all ages, and has been celebrated
at different times by such eminent hands; I say, notwith­
standing that he lived in the time of this devouring pesti­
lence, he never caught the least infection, which those
writers unanimously ascribe to that uninterrupted tem­
perance which he always observed/'
44 *Tis to thy rules, OTemperance ! that we owe,
A ll pleasures which fiom health and strength can flow t
Vigour of body, purity of mind,
Unclouded reason, sentiment refin’d."
Valetudinarians often voluntarily suffer more pain than
ever was inflicted by the Inquisition* By swallowing
every medicine which ignorant friends or artful Quacks
recommend, these wretched dupes, instead of disarming
disease, only render it more formidable. Three-fourths
of the diseases of the people of London are ideal; and
many
65
many persons contribute to the support of the physician,
and pay him liberally for regular attendance, while they
labour not under bodily indisposition, but the imaginary
ailments of a mind diseased. Many an athletic hypochon­
driac, whose sanity would be restored in a few days by
exercise, now imagines himself at the point of death,
though he will probably outlive his physician. The re­
velling and excess of those unhappy beings has produced
in them such a relaxation of nerve and imbecility of
mind, that they tremble at the momentary gloom occa­
sioned by every passing cloud; the sight of a hearse fills
them with horror; and the mournful knell thrills through
every fibre.
Were we to investigate the origin of those diseases
that really exist in this capital, they would be found to
proceed from gluttony, indolence, and sensuality; conse­
quently, not only the pre'venti've of such diseases, but
even the cure9may be found in adherence to temperance,
exercise, and moderation in the pursuit of amusements*
The rapid increase of nostrums within these few years
might induce us to imagine, that all the diseases of Pan­
dora’s box had been poured out on this capital; and that
too much praise could not be given to those benevolent
philosophers who have prepared a remedy for every ail­
ment. But a little observation will remove the delusion ;
and if we explore the laboratories of empiricism, we
shall find that they are the most fatal armouries ofD h a t h ,
whence the poisoned arrows of Quackery are discharged
on mankind!
At present, so universal is the passion for deleterious
potions.
66
potions, that the people of London may be considered
as a community of philosophers, whose magnanimity is
equal to that of Socrates himself. He swallowed poison
with an unaltered cheek and serene eye ; and Fame has
enrolled him in the list of her most illustrious sons : how
great then must that nation appear, where numbers of
both sexes daily take poison with philosophic serenity!
T o enumerate the different impostors, who abuse the
credulity of the people of England by pretending to heal
diseases, would be tedious. There is not, indeed, a
more glaring proof of the weakness of mankind than the
encouragement given to those quacks, who come from
every quarter of the globe to dupe the most wealthy and
sensible of nations* So preposterous are many indivi­
duals in this metropolis, that they would prosecute to
certain death the footpad who robbed them of a crown,
yet madly give their money for a nostrum which robs
them of health, and precipitates them into the tomb !
The beneficent C r e a t o r has so wisely constituted
both the human body and mind, that they possess au
inherent power to resist and often overcome disease.
This power is by physicians called the Autocrateia, or
•vis medicatrix natures* Hippocrates says, <
( Nature is
sufficient to the health of every animal, and kindly per*
forms every thing that is necessary to their well-being
without any other aid.” Had he lived in this luxurious
age, however, he would have acknowledged the necessity
of moral precepts to restrain the passions, and medical
assistance to remove the maladies generated by indolence
and dissipation.
In
97
In order to preserve health, Hippocrates advises us not
to eat to excess, and on no account to neglect exercise*
Not to accustom ourselves to too exact a regimen, lest
any sudden deviation should be fatal. He recommends
pure water as the most wholesome drink, and sometimes
an equal quantity of wine and water intermingled, as the
wine will expel whatever is injurious to the intestines,
and the water will temper the acrimony of the humours.
It is remarkable that St. Paul gives Timothy nearly the
same advice— u Use no longer water but a little wine for
thy stomach's sake, and thine often infirmities.”
To attempt to give rules respecting health in a work
the object of which is to expose the empiric, would sa­
vour of the very thing we wish to censure. But a few
friendly hints to persons labouring under lingering dis­
ease may not be improper. Valetudinarians must be
convinced that the passions have a most powerful effect
on the health of the body, and that the pains of the body
excite sympathy in the mind. Hope, that prime cheerer
of the soul, accompanied by strict temperance, will re­
establish the health of the infirm sooner than all the
simples of nature, or the chemical preparations invented
by man. Look around then you who now drag on a
lingering existence— behold numbers who were lately in
full health, suddenly carried oflf by fevers arising from
Intemperance* that Hydra which devours human happi­
ness- No longer torment yourselves, nor make your
stomach, like Noah's ark, a receptacle for every clean
and unclean thing that you imagine may renovate the
constitution. If you cannot be restored by moderate
exercise
*
exercise and a mild regimen, calmly submit to that dis­
solution which awaits every human being. Instead of
relying wholly on the skill of feeble man, bow with re­
signation to the will of the D i v in e P h y s i c i a n who can
u kill and make alive P*
Dear and amiable young people of both sexes, who
yet enjoy health, if any of you are led away by the ignus
fatuus of pleasure, pause in your career, and reflect that
a body beautified by temperance and invigorated by exer­
cise, with a mind harmonised by the social affections,
constitute your perfection as rational beings. Whatever
evil habits the example or inticement of others, or the
suggestions of your own imagination, may have tempted
you to adopt, must be discontinued if you hope for
happiness here or hereafter- A h ! lay your hand upon
your palpitating bosom, and ask yourselves, will these
vain or vicious pursuits confer felicity? Then C o n s c i ­
e n c e , like a tutelary angel, will answer— No ! Return,
return to the true path, which is illumined by the light of
Reason, and leads to the Temple of Happiness.
All rational enjoyments are sanctioned by virtue :— the
generous sympathy of friendship, the ecstatic thrill of
love, the cheerful song of decent conviviality, and the
delightful sensations occasioned by the voice of the muse*
Every elegant accomplishment, which is allied to deco­
rum, must be conducive to the superior refinement of the
intelligent mind. But human nature is too apt to pass
the limits of propriety. Incited by curiosity or emula­
tion, the ardent and aspiring mind of youth is desirous
to attain the proud pinnacle of excellence. Were this
generous
68
generous ambition directed to the attainment of useful
knowledge, and the unremitted practice of beneficence,
it would render the happy candidate the living image of
the D e i t y 1 Art thou, O youthful reader, actuated by
such motives as these? Art thou emulous to excel others
in the love of justice, generosity, truth, and knowledge ?
These are the imperishable columns on which alone the
fair arch of thy renown can be established for ever!
The fallacy of empiricism has already been sufficient­
ly animadverted on. Indeed, a single reflection may
serve to subvert the whole fabric of medical imposture.
Had any of the proposed panaceas invented by man been
endued with universal healing virtues, all other medi­
cines would have been totally unnecessary; and, as light
is supplied by the sun, the grand restorative would have
supplied all mankind with health and longevity; hence
there would have been no necessity to collect any other
drugs, or acquire medical knowledge.
E P I G R A M .
71 1
%
e p i g r a m .
D ia lo g u e betw eena Quack Doctor and a Satirist.
Satirist.
Thou destroyer of man, thou vicegerent of death ;
In thy look there is jaundice, and pest in thy breath ;
Depart from this Island, and leave us some hope
O f living our time, if you'd 'scape from the rope.
0 2 a c k D o c t o r .
Pray cease your invective, my character spare,
And in all future profits with me you shall share:
Don't you know, Sir, the mass of mankind are all fools,
Who rely upon nostrums and medical rules,
T o restore wasted vigour and renovate health;
So whoever will promise such blessings grasps wealth.
S a t i r i s t .
Whene'er I at fraudulent cunning connive,
May my small spark of life not that moment survive !
I know that the credulous oft are deceiv'd,
And impostors like you are too often believ'd;
While you violate truth, and that just law defy,
Which declares that a murderer surety shall die.
A
Q u a c k D o c t o r .
Stop, Sir, you're in error, 1 am a physician,
See here *s my diploma, and in good condition
It came by the coach from the North, ’pon my honour*
And grateful am I to the generous donor;
If that won’t suffice, Sir, see here is my patent,
To cure all disease^ apparent or latent :
I find you suspected I was but a poacher,
On other physicians a frontless encroacher;
But my qualification’s without the least flaw,
And 1 kill my game fairly according to law.
«
PHILOSOPHICAL
72
PHILOSOPHICAL QUACKERY.
See sculking Truth to her old cavern fled,
Mountains o f casuistry heap'd o'er her head !
Philosophy, that lean’d on Hcav'n before,
Shrinks to her second cause, and is no more*
Physic o f Metaphysic begs defence,
And Metaphysic calls for aid on Sense!
See Mystery to Mathematics fly !
in vain ! they gaze, turn giddy, rave, and die*
Religion, blushing, veils her sacred fires,
And unawares Morality expires.
No public flame nor private, dares to shine ;
N o human spark is left, no glimpse divine!
Lo, thy dread empire C h a o s ! is restor’d ;
Light dies before thy uncreating word;
Thy hand, great Anarch / lets the curtain fall,
And universal darkness buries all.
POPE.
I f we compare Athens, even in the zenith of "tier
glory, to modern London, the superiority of the latter
will be manifest. The Grecian city was indeed fre­
quented by the lovers of science, who came from dif­
ferent climes to drink wisdom at the fountain-head in her
academic groves; but we may imbibe knowledge and
porter
jtofter in every tap-room in this capital, where numbed
o f benevolent sages are assiduously employed in their
patriotic endeavours to convince us that religion is a
farce; that we should divest ourselves of those supersti­
tious prejudiceswhich regulated the morals of our ances­
tors; and, with a generous zeal for knowledge, endeavour
to subvert the chimerical fabric erected hy priestcraft
and hypocrisy!
This laudable desire to contribute to the edification of
the ignorant has become so general, that many d is itile *
rested tradesmen would spend the whole afternoon over
their cups, rather than pursue their business, in order to
convert one individual to the new philosophy. The same
beneficent disposition appears to actuate clerks and shop­
men, who conscientiously neglect their masters* business*
in order to convince some superstitious simpleton that
no man of spirit or knowledge would be a Christian!
Were these generous zealots as assiduous in promoting
the welfare-of their employers, nay, were they^as eager to
convert men to truth as they are to mislead them into
the paths of sophistical delusion, they might then be
considered as philosophers indeed!
The juvenile effervescence of the animal spirits, which
•stimulates self-conceited youth, may subside, and the
errors of the head be extenuated by the amiable qualities
of the heart, provided the contagion o f modem philoso­
phy has not driven the phrenetic dupe into the vortex of
sensuality; but the cold-hearted metaphysician, or in­
sidious framer of ethical theories, who with premedita­
tion reject the sublime and practicable precepts of Chris­
es tianity.
tlanity, may be said to labour under an incurable mental
disease.
Some of our moral philosophers, however, are justly
entitled to the approbation of mankind. Paley, Watson,
Beattie, and Cogan, have elucidated the duties which we
owe as members of the community, and their pages are
a luminous mirror, in which the youthful mind may con­
template Truth adorned with the white robe of Mo­
rality.
It has been often asserted by the enemies of Christi­
anity*, that it has been the source of contention and war
among
* In a late publication o f Madame de Genlis, entitled, Little
la Bruyere,” the author makes the following observations on Free­
thinkers, * des esprits forts*' 4
4 The epithet of strong mind is a
title which impious men gave to themselves, because they pretended
that required great strength of mind to shake off the yoke of re­
ligion. The absurdity o f this assertion is evident, and even the
most impious‘men cannot deny, that it is much more prudent to fol­
low religion than to reject it. They even acknowledge that it is
consolatory, and that its morality is admirable, so that they add crime
to imprudence j for it is a crime to deprive mankind o f their best
consolation, their sublimest hopes, and their veneration for the most
perfect system o f ethics.
u True strength of mind consists in the ability o f a man to stem
the torrent o f licentiousness, and to preserve his principles and hit
morals inviolate amidst a depraved multitude. They who possess
real strength of mind at the present time, are persons truly religious.
W eak and frivolous minds suffer themselves to be hurried down the
stream by example, and by the passions, all o f which are encouraged
by impiety.
74
« Examine
7 3
among mankind. The truth is, designing men, under
the pretext of religion, obtained an ascendancy over the
minds of others, and practised the greatest cruelties and
oppressions, which they endeavoured to sanction by their
pretended zeal for the truth. But, if we except a few
instances of bigotry and persecution, we shall find, on
consulting history, that mankind never became truly hu­
manized till the benign precepts of Christ softened the
ferocity of the passions.
The tree is known by its fruit• What benevolent insti­
tution has been founded, or what extraordinary act of
virtue performed, by an Atheist or Deist ?— What record
remains of their public or private virtues ? None. On
the other hand, the pages of modern history are illumi­
nated with memorials of the heroism, patriotism, and
piety, of Christians.
“ Examine impious men closely, and you will find them destitute
of the knowledge o f religion j nay, that they have forsaken It with­
out having studied it, and that they form their judgment of it exclu­
sively on the wretched sophisms of its detractor*. You will discover
that the true cause o f their aversion to religion is the severity of
its morals, and that they are led away by the convenient pliancy of
modern philosophy.
“ Voltaire, Diderot, D’Alembert, and their abettors, laboured
incessantly for sixty years to establish deism ; irreligion, during that
time, made inconceivable p r o g r e s s A r e men happier on this ac­
count ?— are they better ?
“ O h! young people*whose minds are unperrerted, whose hearts
arc yet pure, two paths lie open before you j— one leads to error and
vice; the other, to truth and virtue
£ % A lfrkp,
ACTRED, thegreat and good Alfred, who founded'the
■ University of Oxford, and established the laws of his
.country on the basis of justice, was a devout Christian#
‘Milton, Newton, Boyle, Addison, and Watts, were
Christians. Among the Deists many men of genius
have appeared. Their high-priest Voltaire,.together with
Hume, Gibbon, Volney, and Paine, have used all the
deeeptious arts of wit andreason to establish their own
reputation by subverting the souls of others. Alas]
they have'been’but too successful,.and a swarm of half­
witted philosophistseradicatethe germsofJhorality from
the youthful mind, and sow the baneful seeds of rank
sensuality in the susceptible Breast of their victim.
•Nature is the idol of the modern speculatist, who,
after descanting on necessity^ reason, and -virtue, will retire
amid the plaudits of his auditory, and dwindle into a
mere man, perhaps trembling at the sight of a bailiff, or
exercising his rhetorical powers'in scolding his wife and
servants.
Among other endowments, the modem theorist seems
■ to consider himself gifted .with the spirit of prophecy,.
;He is ever predicting the downfal of tyranny and super­
stition, with which he studiously combines Revelation.
He has adopted a most ingenious mode of evading refu­
tation, by insisting that the time when such a change
•6hall happen must, from the present state of society,
Be at least half a century hence. By this expedient
<he endeavours to obtain a degree of crcdBility; and at
•the worst hp consoles himself with the reflection, that
his
f f
Sis opponents will naturally be removed before the jfe-
riod of time mentioned.
Pause-^-oh ! pause one-momentin your frantic career,
ye dupes of modem philosophers! Your seduCers from
the path of virtue have, under the semblance of liberality
of sentiment, “ fed each baser passion of the heart,” and
thus triumphed orcryour mind by an attack on the most
vulnerable part*- Reflect, dear bftt deluded fellow-crea­
tures of both sexes— reflect* that dissipation* must acce­
lerate the approach of sickness and death, as the flaring
blaze consumes the oil of the lamp. Your vivid animal
spirits will soon be exhausted by those criminal excesses*
which you misname pleasures.' Awake from the dream
of sensuality to your true happiuess, which can only be
obtained by returning to the path of temperance. Your
reward will be serenity, similar to that of the mariner,
who, shipwrecked in a stormy, sea, escapes on a single
plank to a land o f security and plenty. Every artifice
of proud and blasphemous unbelievers has been exerted
to undermine yourheakh and-virtue* Miscreant Quack
Doctors and Pseudo-Pbilosophers have flattered your
selfish passions, that they might plunder you of your
property— And what isvthe result The privation of
health of body, an<Fsanity of mind! Renounce the so­
phisms of 6uch depraved beings, and embrace the only
truephilosophy^ which clears the head and meliorates the
heart. No longer glory in the wild and fashionable the­
ories of infidelity, but purify yourselves from the mor­
bific contagion of folly, by an ablution in that fountain
of happiness—'The C h r istia n Re l ig io n .
* 3 A maiv
78
A man who wanders from the straight path of Reve­
lation into the labyrinth of Scepticism, is like the inhe­
ritor of a competent patrimony, who wastes it in excess,
and afterwards launches friendless and inexperienced into-
the ocean of life. Whoever embraces Deism instead of
the Christian Religion prefers vice to virtue.
Many proofs might be adduced of the superiority of
Divine revelation over the best human system of ethics;
but the man who is already animated with its blissful in*
fiuence, that true sunshine of the mind, requires no other
evidence than his own experience. As for the blas-j
phemous and obdurate atheist or deist, alas! he would
not be converted though one should arise from the dead!
T o the giddy and unthinking, however, whose wavering
minds have been waiped by the boldness of the impious,
and who mistook the audacious sneer of sarcastic wit for
the honest effusion of an enlightened mind, to them we
appeal, and entreat them to relinquish the flimsy and
fascinating sophistry of deism, and adopt the practical
precepts of Christ, that benign physician and shepherd
of souls!
The improvements of Philosophy are not confined to
metaphysics and ethics; we can boast of several natu*
ralists, whose acute investigations and ingenious expe­
riments have led to the most important discoveries of
the arcana of Nature. Among other sages, Doctor Dar­
win is entitled to particular attention, both for the sub­
limity of his conceptions, and the boldness of his disqui­
sitions. His * Loves of the Plants* presents a feast to
the bookworm; and the discovery of the soft passion
existing
existing among vegetables* must be highly interesting to
every natural philosopher.
Should some ingenious mineralogist discover an inher­
ent principle of affection in the third kingdom of nature*
we might consider human knowledge, with respect to
this globe at least, as having arrived at perfection.
Might not a naturalist, gifted with poetical talents,
clearly demonstrate that the attraction and cohesion of
inert matter was merely another modification of that
universal love, “ whose strong embrace holds heaven,
and earth, and main” ?and might he not delight us with
an epic poem on a similar plan with the Iliad, describing
the rape of some marble Helen, carried off by some fiery
limestone Paris,? By the force of a powerful imagination,
he might describe the whole mineral kingdom in a state
of warfare, while fossils, by their hostile concussions,
produced earthquakes and volcanoes.
Indeed, the wisdom of our fanciful philosophers was
manifested during the late dearth of provisions, when,
with a benignity peculiar to themselves, they discovered
to the public that fern roots, the succulent branches of
trees, nay, some species of bituminous argil,Was most
* «
savoury and nutritive food ; and when a sceptical John
Bull expressed his doubts respecting the wholesomeness
of such aliment, an Anglo-German book-makei* Exclaim­
ed— “ What, do you dispute the authority^? Dr.
Darwin ?”
Medical sages, who are emulous to distinguish them­
selves by a singularity of opinion, sometimes recommend
abstinence from particular kinds of food. One advises
7 9
£ 4 US
us to be very moderate in the use of bread, as it is as
earthy species of aliment and not easily digested; an*-
other prohibits the use of that oleaginous food, called
butter, which is often productive of cutaneous diseases.
Thus they would literally make us quarrelwith our bread
*nd butter, though it is well known that such empirics
are by no means so abstemious as they pretend.
Other theorists, such as Count Rumford, that “ man
of smoke” recommend a flannel shirt to be worn next the
skin, as a preventive against disease. Do these Quacks
wish to re-introduce the sweating sickness, once so fatal
to Englishmen ? or, because their own scarf-skin is cal­
lous, do they think that ours is equally unfeeiing ? Ex­
perience has taught us thatflannel armoury instead of re­
pelling the shafts of death, is, in consequence of absorb­
ing the perspired matter, but too often like the poisoned
shirt of Hercules. From the moisture o f the atmosphere,
however, both in Great Britain and Ireland, it has been
found that a thin flannel waistcoat worn over the linen%
has repelled atmospheric vapours, while insensible per­
spiration* that friend to health, was moderately promoted
by frequently changing the linen.
Thit may justly be denominated the Age of Philos*
fhyy when the arts and sciences have been brought to
wonderful perfection indeed! One of our astronomers
has discovered, what nobody but himself can perceive*
that the sun is an opaque body/ and another still more
extraordinary mortal has written a pamphlet to provtf
■ that it is a globe of ice / In the latter case there is some
reason to apprehend that it may “ dissolve and thaw
itself
SI
itself into a dew,” which circumstance would be of little
importance to us if itsopacity Were real; but every eye
that can see bears witness against the morbid affection of
pioor Dr. H * * * * * * * ys optics, and mankind generally
concur in the opinion that the sun is a luminous body.
About two years ago, a theoretical barber amused the
town by turning his attention from the hair to the brains
of mankind, whom he endeavoured to convince of the
superior excellence of his astronomical theory. But, like
many of his contemporary sages, he was obliged to re­
linquish his patriotic scheme of enlightening the public,
Who thought him ntuch better qualified to exhibit a
grand'display of a lady's "nuig than of the universe ; and
that he would probably be more successful in the ad­
justment of curls, than a refutation of the Newtonian
Philosophy'; which, like an impregnable fortress, has-
hitherto-withstood the flying artillery of vain French Phi*'
hsophists, and their coadjutors in this country.
In consequence of the inestimable discovery of irianu--
ficturing straw into paper, we have a heap of Wealth in'
every farm-yard. Manufactured* straw, when impressed*
with certain characters, may become a treasure of'bank-­
notes fit to be locked up in the coffer of the female-
gambler, or the iron chest of the banker*- This light
vehicle of wealth is infinitely more portable than the
lumbering guineas which were formerly so incommo-’
dious, and tore the breeches pockets or portmanteau of*
the traveller. He may now carry the price of an estate-
in a small pocket-book.
* 5 <f B lest
t( Blest paper-credit! last andbest supply t
That lends Corruption swifter wings to fly !
Gold, imp’d by thee, can compass hardest things,
Gan pocket States, can fetch or carry K in gsj
A single leaf shall waft an army o'er,
Or ship off senates to some distant shore;
A leaf like Sybil's scatter to and fro
Our fates and fortunes a$ the wind shall blow ;
Pregnant with thousands flits the scrap unseen,
And silent sells a King or boys a Queen.*'
rop*.
Nor have the fine arts been neglected. Engravers have
favoured the public eye with portraits of demireps, pro­
fligate military coxcombs, and swindlers, and blazoned
those visages which would best become the pillory or the
gibbet. The art of portrait painting, too, has attained
the pinnacle of elegance and perfection. Those animated
paintings daily and nightly exhibited by our female artists,
transcend the productions of the most celebrated an­
cients 5and there are at this moment in London upwards
of one thousand original portraits^ which, for delicacy of
outline, brilliancy of uint, and strength of expression,
are inestimable.
Dr. Beddo* s, In his4
4Medical-Pneumatic Institution”
informs us of the cordial effects of oxygen gas9and that
4
4under a certain administration of this gas, sleep may
possibly be dispensed with he intends to oppose it to
the decays of nature, and he is so much re-invigorated by
this grand restorative, that “ his morning alertness equals
that of a healthy boy*” This sage excels all other che­
mists ;
63
mists; if lie has not, like Prometheus, brought clown
celestial fire to animate man, he may claim the merit of
a discovery which will, perhaps, prevent dissolution.
W e may now hope to enjoy the terrestrial immortality
hinted at by modern philosophers, while old age and
death are for ever banished from the cheerful haunts of
men !
But, however delightful the prolongation of life may
be to the community in general, there are a few indivi­
duals who will be little obliged to the Doctor for the
disclosure of this most important discovery. Dissolute
young fellows who are impatiently wishing for the de­
cease of their parents, that they may obtain their pos­
sessions, and hen-pecked husbands who writhe in the
galling chains of matrimony, will execrate that philosophy
which communicates longevity to those inimical to their
happiness 1 But such partial grievances must appear in­
considerable, when opposed to the universality of the
benefit held out to mankind.
By inhaling this cordial ether, the most delicate bloom
will adorn the cheeks of our ladies, who now in vain
waste both their money and time in the purchase and
application of paints and lotions; at the same time that
its exhilarating influence will operate as a tonic to brace
the nerves and invigorate the system.
Might not the general use of this enlivening ether
render our expensive public amusements unnecessary ?
Since its titillating energy exceeds our farces in the ex­
citement of laughter, mirth may now be studied as a
science; and by the administration of different quantities
£ 6 ©
f
of the gas9every gradation of risibility may be attained,
from the gleeful titter of the coquet, to the obstreperous
roar of the clown.
Perhaps the sage discoverer of this invaluable principle
o f vitality may, by further experiments, obtain an ethe-
tial substance sufficient to support animal existence with*
out the use of the grosser elements. Then, indeed, like
the cameleon, we might live on air / Our epicures,
however, would probably object to this light regimen %
and prefer gross turtle, venison, or even roast-beef, to
the Doctor’s ambrosia*”
Even the common necessaries of life are philosophized.,
and, among other implements on an improved plan, the
public are accommodated with hunting razors, by the aid
o f which a dextrous sportsman may shave at fu ll gallops
and be in at the deatb9either of the game or of himself
Improvements in the police of this vast capital have
been recommended by Mr. Colquhouo, a theorist, whose
indefatigable mind has collected a mass of information
respecting human delinquency, that is sufficient to terrify
the most intrepid reader.
According to Mr. C.’s estimate, London contains one
million two hundred and fifty thousand inhabitants; but
the jeturn of real population, as enumerated on the
loth of March, 1801, when the town was literallyfull,
amounted to only seven hundred and fifteen thousand
and two persons, being little more than half the number
stated by this writer.
His
? Satirical View of London, p. 135.
65
His picture of hnman depravity is erroneous and'ex*
aggeratcd. According to his calculation, there are one
hundred and fifteen thousand delinquents in London, in*
eluding fifty thousand prostitutes ! This capital, u by
taste and wealth proclaimed the fairest in all the world,-*
would be in a most dreadful state o f depravity indeed*
were one-sixth of its inhabitants immoral characters— -
one-third of its women w . . . . . . ! Forbid it honour*
virtue, and social happiness !— A candid investigation of
the matter will convince us that the return is erroneous.
Mr-C* contemplated our flourishing emporium, our busy
people, and particularly our beautiful women, with the
misanthropic eye of a Mandeville! The feeling mind
shudders to bring in a charge of delinquency against
even ten thousand of our fellow-citizens ; and were the
unfortunate girls of the town estimated at an equal num*
ber, still charity hopes that the aggregate would be over*
rated.
The general utility of Mr. C/s treatise will be readily
acknowledged by every thinking man ; though, from his
account of the immoral part of society, it should seem
that vice was exclusively confined to the lower classes.
But, instead of immorality originating among the common
people, and rising, only to a certain height, like the
noxious vapour of the Grotto del Cane in Italy, may it not
be fairly asserted* that the pestilential contagion of vice
flows from the pavilions of the great* as streams from a
fountain ? Let any man of observation ca6t his eyes
around, and he will perceive that vice
4t Taints downward all the graduated sca!e
Of order, fromthe chariot to plough.3
9
If
8 6
If this be true, tbe inference is, that the effectual cure
of the mental diseases of society must commence among
the opulent, whose example has so powerful an influence
on the conduct of others*
Mr. C. seems to be extremely cautious of giving of*
fence to persons of distinction. The extreme delicacy
with which he mentions their foibles, reminds us of that
elegant clergyman, who, after expatiating on the irreligion
of a genteel auditory, concluded by telling them, with all
imaginable complaisance, “ that if they did not reform,
they would run the risk of being doomed to a place
which he did not think proper to mention in that polite
assembly” !
Among a variety of very profound observations, this
philosopher expatiates on the gambling practised in the
alehouses of this metropolis, and the fraud of persons
who receive lottery insurances: but he seems disposed to
temporise with those momentous subjects. Would not
the total relinquishment of taxation by State-lotteries,
be an effectual mean of preventing all the inferior grada-
fions of gambling P and the limitation of public-houses
of every description to half their present number,
prevent drunkenness, and its concomitant vices ? Aye ;
but these improvements might be prejudicial to the reve­
nue. Society, however, would derive additional benefit
from general sobriety, which would promote industry,
that source of social comfort; while the wisdom cf the
legislature couid easily devise some other mode of taxa­
tion, equally productive, without injury to the public
morals.
Were M r.C.’s plan o f a C eh P o l i c e realised,
the
the chartered rights of this ancient city would soon be­
come ca tale o f the times of old* It is to be hoped that
the citizens of London will ever support that dignified
independence for which their ancestors have been distin­
guished ;— that steady resistance to the incroachments of
power, by which they have for centuries sustained their
respectability, and lived as a distinct and <well-organised
community, regulated by their own municipal decrees,
yet amenable to the laws of their country* May that
day never arrive, when the Temple of British Liberty
shall be degraded into a Police-office, and Bow-street run­
ners and executioners considered as respectable citi­
zens !
At the same time it must be acknowledged, that there
have been but too many instances of extreme depravity
among our fellow* citizens; yet, notwithstanding the
complaints of Mr. C. respecting the defects in our
police, the most intelligent foreigners readily acknow­
ledge, that fer variety of accommodations, the ele­
gance of its houses and furniture, and the cleanliness
of its inhabitants, London far excels any other city in
the world. As for the corruption of public manners
and morals, it may be safely concluded, that the princi­
pal source of that turpitude originates with people of
different ^nations, who are allured hither by the hope
of gain*
“ London ingulphs them a l l ! the shark is there,
. And the shark's prey \— the spendthrift, and the leech
Tha: sucks him. * # # * * * * * •
$7
* t #
8S ’
** * » * * - • « • •’ #*
* * * « * f t # # # # * * * * ~
Oh thou resort and mart of all the earth,
Checquer’d with all complexions o f mankind,-
And spotted with all crimes; in whom 1 -see
Much that I love, and more that I admire,
And all that I abhor ! Thou freckled fair,
That plcasest, and yet .hockst me $ l-caa laugh?-.
And I can weep, ar hone, and can desp nd,
Feel wrath *nd pity, whe . I think-on thee.
Ten righteous wouM h .v- sav'd a city once,
And thou hast m;*ry righteous. — W ell fot thee ■ -
That salt pre.e ves thee; morecorruptedelse,
And theremte more obnoxious, at this hour.
Than Sodom in her d.*y had pow’ r to be,
For whom God heard his Abr’am plead in vain.”
CowPEft*
This deeply-shaded view of London was sketched by
the greatest poet of the age, who, with all the affection,
of a patriot, sympathised with the miseries, and mourned
the vices and follies of his countrymen. But his consti­
tutional melancholy prevented him. from perceiving the
full flow of social happiness, the comfortable enjoy­
ment of the most elegant accommodations and refined
amtsements, which present such a perpetual series of
gratification to the aspiring, gay, and wealthy inha-
bitants of this capital. It was impossible for the poet,
with all his sagacity and genius, to form a just estimate
of those peculiar enjoyments presented by a populous
and flourishing emporium, from which he bad retired, to
the
*9
ihe seclusion of rural shades, in consequence of mental
depression* That he was not inattentive, however, to the
manners of the town while a resident here, is evident
from “ The Task,” a work which, at the same time that
it is an illustrious memorial of its author’s piety and ge-
jhus, is perhaps the most perfect satire written since the
time of Pope.
Retirement was the choice *of the poet; and, as he
emphatically says, “ God made the country, and man
made the t o w n y e t , with all deference to his exalted
worth, it may be fairly concluded, that the u humanface
divine” presents a more interesting variety to the feeling
mind, than all the rural scenery of nature* Talents
which, in the country, would have continued dormant
like gold in the mine, develope and attain perfection in
a rich capital.
The following cursory sketch of Modern Manners,
will perhaps illustrate the position, that London is not in
such a state of depravity as it has been represented by
.such writers as contemplate the human mind through a
gloomy medium.
A SKETCH
A
SKETCH OF MODERN MANNERS.
9*
Catch the manners Iivid# as they riit.
porn.
Th
eactive community which inhabits this extensive
and populous capital, with all its complicated move­
ments, is like a vast machine, kept in a state of regula­
rity by that powerful spring— the love of gain• Wealth,
which, in a barbarous state, would endanger the pos­
sessor, ,is here the foundation of his security; and the
deference paid to him in consequence of his opulence*
renders his situation at once respectable and enviable.
While a moderate desire to obtain a comfortable live­
lihood or a decent competency actuates the merchant or
tradesman, such a motive is highly commendable; but
like every other human pursuit, the wish to accumulate
wealth, soon becomes predominant, and selfishness sub­
dues every generous emotion of the heart. When the
love of gain is paramount, it severs the ties of kindred,
estranges friends, and the individual gradually contracts
his ideas to the narrow sphere of self-love, as the snail
shrinks into its solitary shell. In whatever amusement or
avocation the commercial man is engaged, he never loses
sight of his favourite object; nay, the love of money
pervades
pervades every order of the community, from the prince
or duke, who squanders thousands at Newmarket and
the gaming-table, to the vender of matches. Indeed, so
i
general is the influence of gain, that it mingles with our
amusements ; and it is a fact, that during the review of
the volunteers in Ilyde-park on the King’s birth-day,
a lamplighter attended with his ladder, and accommo­
dated several spectators with scats in the trees at six­
pence a head.
Affectation is another prominent trait of modern man­
ners. The urbanity and apparent liberality of sentiment
which exists in this polished community, and that sua­
vity of demeanour every-where prevalent, is too often
affected.
Men profess philanthropy at the very moment that
they are endeavouring to over-reach their fellow-crea­
tures. This assumed beneficence, is either the offspring
of design, indolence, or imbecility. While 6uch good-
natured beings execrate the man whose candour compels
him to express his zeal for the truth, and his abhorrence
of philosophic infidelity, they are quite uninterested
about the matter, and can expatiate on the subject of fu­
turity with the sleepy smile ofapathy!
A desire to appear opulent, or in easy circumstances,
is another branch of affectation. Poverty being consi­
dered as the greatest of evils in .this commercial city,
numbers, whose subsistence depends upon credit, launch
into expences which must terminate in their ruin, rather
than attend to a system of economy, which would have
rendered them comfortable through life. How preposte­
rous
rous is their vain emulation to equal their more opulent
neighbours in dress, furniture, and amusements! This
passion for notoriety is so great, that even perfumers and
milliners assume consequential airs, from the accidental
circumstance of their residing in a polite neighbourhood}
and many coxcombs, who would readily carry about an
umbrella, or any thing connected with the idea of gentility*
would go without their breakfast rather than be seen
carrying a loaffor their own use from the bafcef?s shop !
That innate low of•variety so natural to the human
mind, is here carried’ to excess*. Hence monsters and
reptiles, the most remarkable and hideous, are collect^
«d from* distant regions o f the globe, and exhibited
to the curious in this capital* Here the lion may be
viewed with safety; the vast and sagacious elephant
stands gazing at his wondering visitors; while the horrid
crocodile and deathful rattlesnake appear in all their na^
tural deformity, to gratify the public*
Next to the ldve of novelty may be mentioned its
concomitant—-profusions Ihdeed luxurious habits are not
confined to the opulent, but descend with different shades
of distinction, in a regular gradation, from the perfumed
toilette and-magnificent route of the duchess, to the t'ufy
washerwoman and her gossipping companions, seated at
the testable$
— from the peer over hi? wine, to the pop
tcr-drinking mechanic*
Another distinguishing trait of modem manners, is the
mechanical regularity which generally pervades society;
with the exception of the dissolute and idle, who may be
considered a* interlopers in a well-organised community;
Regularity
"Regularity with respect to the hours devoted to business
and rest is necessary to the well-being of this busy empo­
rium, though too oft* n productive of a lethargic plod­
ding habit, which almost converts the man into mere
automaton.
One of the most whimsical and amusing peculiarities
of this capital, is the dispatch with which any recent
event is caricatured and exhibited at the windows of
print-shops. Even a subject of public importance Is
often pourtrayed so as to txcite risibility. The union
<with Ireland, the resignation of a minister, or arty cu­
rious incident in the world of fashion, is exposed through
the magic-lanthorn of wit, for the amusement of the
public. It must be confessed, however, that the general
effect of caricatures is offensive to decency, and injurious
to morals. W e arse informed, that “ the turn of the
English nation for humourouspoliticalprints, first shewed
itself in the reign .of Mary, who was represented as ex­
tremely thin, with many Spaniards hanging to her, and
sucking her to the bone.”
Another singular and pleasing medium of.news, is the
ballads sung in the streets, in celebration of some recent
fortunate event; such > a naval victory, or the return of
peace,; nay, even our grievances are satyrised and de­
scribed in humourous songs, so as to excite mirth. The
condemnation of a criminal, .furnishes employment to
the hawker; and a description of an execution, together
with the dying-speech of .the sufferer, will perhaps af­
ford subsistence to his fellow-creature for a w eek; so
that, strange as it may appear* both public and private
misfor-
misfortunes become merchandise in the hands of the in­
genious of this capital-
Money, with the generality of people, is every thing.
It must indeed be mortifying to the opulent to observe,
that the attachment of their dependents, and even the
apparent esteem of their friends, arises from the respect
paid to riches. The vulgar herd bow before the wealthy
with reverence ; but it.is the money, and not the indi­
vidual, which they respect. Observe the behaviour of a
man who expects to receive money from another, and his
abrupt departure when the object of his visit is accom­
plished. Nay, even the merchant and shopkeeper affect
the utmost attention to a stranger whom they expect
will purchase goods; but should he decline buying,
the coldness of the dealer is a sufficient proof of his dis­
appointment ; all his studied earnestness to please, and
unreal benevolence, vanish in a moment! On the other
hand, the most trivial article demanded by a customer,
will occasion an instantaneous interruption of the social
converse of a tradesman; and doubtless a philosophic
tallovj-chandler would hasten from the contemplation of
the starry heavens to vend a farthing rushlight!
By the way, the exorbitant price paid for clothes
and other necessaries, originates in the negligence of men
of fashion in the payment of their tradesmen's bills. The
taylor, shoemaker, &c, endeavour to make up their loss
by an extortionate demand upon the honest part of the
community. Thus the dissipation of unprincipled men
renders tradesmen unjust, and the public are eventually
sufferers.
The
The love of censure prevails among the young, the fri­
volous, and the vain. Their remarks assault our ears in
the public streets, taverns, coflee-houses, and theatres.
u Even churches are no sanctuaries now !” Indeed vanity
is the characteristic of the majority of young people in
London. Effeminacy is a conspicuous foible among our
young men j especially those idle, lisping, and most in­
significant beings, vulgarly yclep’d gentlemen. A part of
the human species, who, because they are born to an in­
heritance, consider themselves as not accountable to their
country for a waste of time and talents. Nay,^ so mis­
chievous is the disposition of some of our modern men
of spirit, that the community would willingly compro­
mise the matter with them, and overlook their foibles,
on condition that they would not vitiate the morals of
others by their pernicious example.
On the slightest appearance of rain, the modern petite
maitre equips himself with boots, a surtout, and um­
brella, and thus armed cap-a-pie, he sallies forth in de­
fiance of the weather. From the inconsistency, charac*
teristic of the man of fashion, however, these delicate
mortals render their own precautions unavailing, and by
nocturnal excesses undermine- the foundation of their
health and serenity.'
Another circumstance which renders the effeminacy of
coxcombs still more glaring, is the contrast presented by
the dress of the ladies, who flutter along the streets like
butterflies in the sun, in light airy raiment, which is almost
transparent. Their superiority is still more striking in the
roseate bloom which adorns their cheeks, and the vivacity
that
9*
that sparkles in their eyes, while their attendant bcahx,
though wrapped up in warm clothing, have an emaciated
and spiritless look, like wretches on the brink ofthe tomb*
With respect to society in general, we are neither so
effeminate nor degenerate as some cynics assert* Our
health, notwithstanding the daily and insidious attempts
made by Quacks to undermine it, is as good as that of
our ancestors, while we certainly excel them in knowledge
and refinement. A comparison of the state of learning
thirty years ago with that of the present day, will corro­
borate this assertion: and indeed knowledge has been ge­
nerally diffused throughout England, by the institution of
Sunday schools, and the circulation of the works of our
best authors.
The moral character of the laborious classes in Lon­
don, is very different from that of the rustic. They re­
tain his vulgarity, unaccompanied with his simplicity and
integrity* A certain knavish acuteness is perceptible fa
the physiognomy of several carters, draymen, hackney*
coachmen, See. ; they are possessed of the “ wisdom ofthe
serpent” but we look in vain for the “ innocence of the
doveJ9 At the same time it must be acknowledged, that
a great majority of our labouring poor are very worthy
characters, whose industry is essential to the accemmo-
dation and social happiness of themselves and others*
Luxurious food, dress, and amusements, occupy al­
most the whole attention of thousands in this wealthy
city. Indeed, so much of the time and the thoughts of
the fashionable and opulent is spent in eating, drinking,
'and visiting, that we might suppose they thought them­
selves
97
selves created for no other end than to riot in excess, an4
wander through the flowery mazes of pleasure.
The fashionable, or, as Addison termed it, /he idle
world) is, in a great measure, distinct from the busy citi­
zens, though frequent intermarriages have produced
an amalgamation of the pure ore of nobility with the
alloy of the merchant. The polite inhabitants of West­
minster, and the parish of St. Mary-le-bone, are an iso­
lated class of the community, though their vices and
follies are daily making a progress in the city. The
bustle of commerce is rather unfavourable to the spread
of dissipation; it is only^at the gaming-table, the rout*
or the masqued ball, that folly appears in all her glory.
Indeed, the West end of the town, as it is called, is
perfectly quiet till about noon, when the pageantry of
equipages, the incessant rattling of carriages, and the
ridiculous formality of visiting, renders the streets a
scene of splendid confusion. This is certainly a most
auspicious age for such menial servants as love indo­
lence; for the master very good-naturedly drives his
gig or curricle, while the servant sits at his ease beside
him in a pleasing vacuity of thought.
From their freedom of intercourse, contiguity of re­
sidence, and frequent intermarriages, our nobility and gen­
try may be considered as one great body. The constitu­
tion has, indeed, distinguished them into separate classes,
by conferring on the former the honour of being legisla­
tors by hereditary succession, while the latter are ap­
pointed by election- But, in a moral light, their virtues
p and
and 'vices, manners and amusements, are the same, with
a few slight shades of difference.
When -our country gentlemen first visit London, they
undergo a complete metamorphosis. The transition
from the coot breezes that ventilate their rural retreat, to
the warm atmosphere of the metropolis, affects those
rustics with a malady which may be termed a brain
fever; under its influence they become delirious, and
madly rush into the vortex of fashionable dissipation.
The facility with which the squire adopts the modish
dress, phraseology, effeminacy, and vices of the town-
bred rake, is almost incredible. On his arrival, the no­
velty of the scene, and the vast extent, population, and
magnificence of the city, fill him with astonishment.
Ashamed of his vulgarity of manners and dialect, he is
silent and reserved, till an introduction to a few polite
men of the world teaches him to overcome his uncouth
bashfulness. Once initiated in modish follies, he boldly
divests himself of decency ; frequents taverns and stews;
stares at passing females in the streets; and, in conse­
quence of his vigorous constitution, becomes a more vo­
ciferous and outrageous blood than the feeble cit, who
had been practising from his infancy.
Boldly independent in principle, he proves, by his ac­
tions, that pleasure is his idol, and the shafts of his ridi­
cule, forged by obscenity on the anvil of dulness, arc
directed against that religion which his ancestors held in
due veneration.
%
It must be confessed, that the fine arts owe their pre­
sent
99
sent perfection to the munificence of our nobility and
gentry; and the theatres may be said to exist in conse­
quence of the annual visits of the gay and the opulent to
London. Besides, what a number of perfumers, hair­
dressers, and other creatures of fashion, would be desti­
tute if deprived of the patronage of the great ? Nay, do
not the taverns, gaming-houses, and bagnios, owe their
chief support to the profusion of young men of fa­
shion ?
One characteristic which denotes the accomplished
modern fine gentleman is, his skill in the arts of seduc­
tion. To allure a thoughtless girl by presents and pro­
fessions of love, and afterwards relinquish her to infamy,
is such an heroic achievement, that the man of gallan­
try is prouder of his conquest over the credulity of a
maiden, “ and the richplunder of a taken heart,'9than a
hero would be of the wreath of victory. The moralist
may censure the conduct of the seducer as infamous, not
considering that fashion can make vice appear amiable.
Still, however, there are many illustrious exceptions to
this general depravity among the higher classes; and if
our nobility and gentry would seriously reflect on their
influence in society, they would discover, that an imita­
tion of their follies and vices has pervaded every subordi­
nate class of the community- Divines may preach, and
moralists write, in vain, if the affluent practise and
encourage vice. But the dissolute exclaim, t( Can the
example of a few individuals reclaim the world!—
must we forego our pleasures to promote public happi­
ness ? Let the parsons inculcate morality, they are paid
f % for
100
for i t : but we will live, while we live !” Such are the
suggestions of selfish dissipation. But were persons
o f distinction to return to the luminous orbit of virtue9
whence, like wandering stars, they are making continual
aberrations— were they to shine like a benign constella­
tion, they would at once beautify and harmonise society'.
But now, alasl—
4i T o the lascivious pipe and wanton song,
They charm down care and frolic it along;
"With mad rapidity and unconcern*
Down to the gulph from whence Is no return."
The merchants and tradesmen of London are the most
opulent and respectable in the world. Many of them, who
have received a liberal education, and travelled to form
commercial connections, arc intelligent and enterprising ;
but the majority are rather confined in their ideas, and
consider the art of accumulating wealth as the greatest
human excel-mce.
In consequence of their frequent intermarriages with
the nobility, the merchants of London are not only more
refined, but more luxurious than their ancestors. Many
of them are possessed of elegant villas in the circum­
jacent counties, to which they occasionally retire from
the bustle of business; but the love of rural scenes, which
is so natural to man, seldom predominates in the mind of
the merchant, till he has realised an immense fortune.
Indeed, the love of gain has become so habitual to seve­
ral citizens, that they pursue that species of gambling
^called stock-jobbing, long after they have resigned the
more
more arduous toils of commerce. The darling pursuits
of the merchant is wealth, and he cheerfully devotes the
whole energies of his mind to the attainment of that oh*
j€Ct.
The amusements of opulent citizens are similar ter
those of the great, whose fashions and follies the city-
dames and belles are emulous to imitate. They tread iir
the path defined by the arbitresses of the mode ; and their
expensive and crowded routs prove their strong propen­
sity to pleasurable extravagance.
Another trait of their increasing passion for dissipation*
is the eagerness with which the wives and daughters of
the merchants annually visit the watering-places. There,
freed from the restraints o f domestic propriety, they
boldly launch into the stream of high life ; where, steered
by Passion, they are often shipwrecked on the shoals of
levity, or ingulphed by the quicksands of vice.
The principal foible of the more respectable order of
citizens is self-importance, assumed from a consciousness
of the possession of riches. Their most shining qualities
are probity and benevolence.
A great proportion of the opulent tradesmenof London,
not having country seats, and their amusements being li­
mited by^the locality of their sphere of action, they natu­
rally turn their attention to the enjoyment of domestic
comfort. In this respect they are undoubtedly happier
than any other mercantile people upon the globe. Indeed,
the elegance and convenience of their houses and furni­
ture, the excellence of their food, and their cleanliness o f
person, and dress, are indescribable.
F 3 With
302
With respect to the generality of those artists, trades­
men, and mechanics, who inhabit the city, they are a
self-opinionated people. Accustomed to behold the
magnificence of public buildings, and the abundance
of merchandise which fills the shops and warehouses,
they, by an absurd association of ideas, consider them­
selves connected with this grandeur and opulence, and
hold every foreigner in contempt.
Their pride, however, seldom originates in a con­
sciousness of personal merit; in that respect it must he
acknowledged they are unassuming. They form a much
more judicious estimate of the value of things ; and are
proud of their riches, the opulence of their relatives,
comparatively brisk trade, and other accidental circum­
stances. Their knowledge is very limited, insomuch,
that they would prefer a good dinner, or even a pot of
porter and a clean pipe, to the circle of the sciences.
In consequence of this too general neglect of learning,
many remain in a state of ignorance, which, notwith­
standing their expertness in trade, renders them liable to
be duped by quack doctors and impostors of every de­
scription. Indeed, their self-love is highly gratified by
these gentleman-like foreigners, who come smiling and
bowing to impose upon their credulity. They imagine
that these strangers are drawn hither by the fame of the
capital, and come to admire its inhabitants.
Their mental attainments are generally confined to a
knowledge of trade, and the calculation of money; and
they really consider themselves as the greatest people in
the world. A citizen of London ! enviable pre-emb
ncnce 1
103
nerrcc! which no deficiency of genius can deprive tfie
happy possessor o f! This alone confers an imaginary
dignity on every rank of citizens, from the smutty sweep-
chimney to the gambling stock-jobber.
White the citizen beholds men o f various nations
throng to London, h?s estimation of himself, and his con­
tempt of the adventurers who come to partake of his
bounty, are both raised to the highest pitclu On the
other hand, the ingenious and the knavish who assemble
here* are attracted by the fame of the metropolis, and
consider tht**atiVes as a dull, plodding, mercantile race,
v/ho arc meapabte of generous sentJnseats, and most be
dttped by a variety artificer
Their w to* aad daughters often irMt the theatres,
where they make a rapid progress m refinement. Won-
derful, indeed, must be the improvement of our youth­
ful females who frequent those elegant temples of
the Graces, where nonsense is too often substituted for
wit, and pantomime for tragedy. Yet these are the
places where our gay young women obtain refined senti­
ments, still further cherished by the frippery of novels and
romances, the perusal of which confines the mind to
girlish attainments, ferments impure desires, and inflates
female pride.
One characteristic of the wives and daughters of the citi­
zens is, the freedom with which they analyse the actions of
their neighbours. They liberally censure each other, not
from any gratification which they receive from satire, but
purely for.mutual edification. This love of scandal, which
so generally prevails among the natives of London, is che-
F 4 rished
«
fished b y their circumscribed situation: great minds like
thexrs» unwilling to remain inactive, must have some in­
teresting object to contemplate and expatiate on.
In this point of view, every tea-table conversation may
be considered as a lecture of moral philosophy, where
the auditors are instructed in the best mode of tracing
the defects of others.
With respect to the modish part of the pedestrians of
both sexes, they appear as much under the influence of
frivolity as ever. Their ablutions at Brighton and Mar­
gate during the summer, has prepared them for the re­
sumption of their hyemal pursuits; such as theatricals,
masquerades, gaming, and intrigue.
The beaux, indeed, are not altogether so effeminate
as they appeared last winter. The trowers are not so
complete an imitation of the loose drapery of the petti­
coat as formerly ; nor are their collars stuffed so full as
to give the appearance of a crick. They have not, how­
ever, divested themselves of that ridiculous severity of
look, which they assume in order to appear men c f spirit
and consequence; or that conceited air, which seems to
say, “ I’m a very elegant young fellow, an’t I ?”
But the ladies, notwithstanding the return of peace,
seem determined to continue hostilities against the
other sex, and have actually opened the campaign
in a manner which dees honour to their spirit, though
It leads us to question their prudence. For in­
stance, they wage war like the ancient Gauls, exposing
themselves, almost naked, to the rigour of a wintry at­
mosphere. They also paint, probably in imitation of
the
104
the savr.gC nitions, who*stain their bodies with different
colours, *iri'order to terrify the enemy. This mode of
defence has a very!different effect among us; for it is
observable* that the heroines thus equipped, in conse­
quence of wearing their thin coat ofmail, or rather coat o f
faint9are assailed with greater ardour by their opponents.
Female habiliments have long been remarkable for the
delicacy of the texture; but we do not find that eco­
nomy is consulted with respect to price, for the robe,
or even the veil, of a fashionable lady, is more costly than
a;whole suit of the plain kind. It must be an universal
passion to excite admiration, which causes our lovely
women to risk their health and reputation, by appearing
in the public streets and theatres in a garb similar to that
worn by demireps or actresses. The childish exposure
of their elbows is truly ridiculous; and, for the better
preservation of the health of those who are mothers
and nurses of the rising generation, it might be expedient
for the legislature to levy a tax upon every woman who
appeared in public with naked arms or elbows. Hence
those fair ones who preferred admiration to gold, might
exhibit according to the statute^
Pope Innocent XI. published an edict, u commanding
women to cover their shoulders, their necks, and their
arms to the wrist.” Such a law in England would cer- -
tainly be conducive to the health of our lovely women ;
but the dear creatures are so generous, that they would
rather suffer from the frequent changes of the weather,
than selfishly conceal their beauties! Many of them, it
is true, will doubtless experience aches and pains in their
f 5 old
165'
old age, as a reward for this liberality, and a just retribu­
tion for the frequent heart-aches with which they now
torment their admirers.
During the late rigorous winter, however, several phi­
losophic ladies shielded their delicate form3 in the Turk­
ish pelisse* Should they improve on this idea, and adopt
the mabramab, or thick veil worn in Turkey, their beau­
ties would be completely eclipsed. Their passion for
admiration will probably prevent this transition. The
sudden change from a light and almost transparent
dress, to a velvet pelisse, with a wadding so thick that
the arms and shoulders of the wearer seem wrapped up
for the gout or rheumatism, is another proof that pro­
priety and fashion go hand in hand. From the increased
perspiration o f the delicate fair one, this dress may be
called the tepid-bath offashion ; nay, it is evident that the
ladies have studied geography, and having discovered
that bears and other wild animals in the northern regions
are covered with a thick fur, they have wisely imitated
nature, by a dress suitable to the season.
Some advocate for modish variety may exclaim, u This,
•ynic is equally displeased with a thin and warm dress,
and satirises the fashions, rather from a desire to vent hi&
spleen, than to correct impropriety.” The female habit,
however, ought neither to be so light as to give the wearer,
the appearance of a paper kite, subject to be carried away
by every sudden gust; nor so warm as to remind us of
the climate of Russia or Lapland. Simplicity of dress
is, like modesty of manners, the handmaid of grace*.
Gorgeous ornaments distract the imagination of the ob­
server,
107
server, and the wearer, like the silkworm, is hid amid
her own magnificence. But a decent garb, adjusted to
the elegant contour of the female form, concealing those
beauties that would obtrusively force themselves upon our
observation, and harmonising with a virtuous mind this
is the dress that we should recommend to the fair sex ;
and which, combined with a modest demeanour, is more
attractive than the cestus of Venus! can render even
beauty more amiable, impress the idea of angelic perfec*
tion and innocence on the mind of the beholder, and
compel us to adore virtue, thus personified in woman !
As to painting, several of our limned ladies have, by
the repeated application of beautifiers, so effectually
closed the pores of the face and bosom, as to prevent
perspiration ; and they have gradually attained a sallow
hue similar to figures in composition. Their nudity, at
the public theatres, is a demonstration of their almost
hopeless state ; while the philosophic coxcombs who sur­
round them, seem to consider them merely as elegant
paintings— nay, as a part of the entertainment /
Even the affectation of humanity is carried to a most
disgusting excess. To behold women of sensibility and
elegant manners, lavishing their affections on lap-dogs,
monkeys, cats, parrots, and singing-birds, is odious to
the reflecting mind, since it is turning the social passions
out of their natural course, and bestowing .that kindness
on brutes, which the Creator gave to be employed in
promoting social happiness. Indeed, when we behold a
lady clasping a lap-dog to her breast, we are almost
f 6 ready
108
ready to imagine that her disposition is brutal, and con*
genial with that of the canine favourite.
The dignity of man is sometimes degraded by the
subordination which is necessary in every well-regulated
community ; but the most reprehensible species of menial
servility, is that of a footman being obliged to follow his
lady, with her lap-dog or umbrella in his hand: it is a still
more objectionable degradation <tfthe manly mind, when
an aged footman attends three or four sprightly young
ladies, as if he were appointed a spy on their actions:
but the most odious servility is that o f an honest warm­
hearted young fellow, waiting, like her shadow, upon the
capricious ramble of some kept-mistress, whose masculine
strut, supercilious bow, and pouting lip, indicate the
pride of her heart.
Ladies of quality, indeed, should not venture to walk
unattended by a footman, who might act in the double
capacity of servant and protector. The expedience of
such a custom is evident, as the ladies are embellished
with so many attractive ornaments, that they might
tempt the most frigid philosopher. Whether we consi­
der them as women or paintings, they are invaluable; and
if a connoisseur would not scruple to give a thousand
guineas for an original portrait by an eminent master,
how inestimable must those elegant beings appear who
combine in themselves the artist and the animated origi­
nal ! As for their draperyit is often more precious than
the woman; and if we include the trinkets, a modem
fine lady is almost as superbly decorated as our Lady of
Loretto $
Loretto; nay, the price of her watch and seals would be
sufficient to furnish the shop of a male painter.
From this view of our fashionable female pedestrians*
the necessity of an attendant is obvious. Indeed, the
footman, entrusted with such a ptecious charge, should
be as watchful as the Hesperian dragon, since, from her
multitudinous attractions, the lovely rambler will run the
risk of being carried off by street-robbers, and reduced to
a state of nature by the spoliation of covetousness; or
she may be mistaken for a woman of the town by some
rake, and decoyed from the path of honour.
When we reflect on the frequent slips of those frail
daughters of Eve who adorn the circles of fashion, we
must confess, that they do not seem sufficiently cautious.
Perhaps their propensity to intrigue proceeds from ex­
cessive sensibility, and consequently the poor things arc
not blameable* as, according to the Wolstencraftiart
philosophy, they did not make themselves. Yet, by the
bye, it would not be amiss for several of those gentle­
men who are blessed with beautiful and high-spirited
dames, to pay some trusty old footman a liberal salary
for guarding the snow-like chastity of his mistress,
which is so prone to melt away in the sunshine of plea­
sure.
But let us return to common life. Modern refinement
has spread rapidly throughout this vast community, in­
somuch that gentility is affected by every class of our
fellow-citizens. A most curious variety of dialects dis­
tinguish the different classes almost as effectually, as if
they
110
they were clothed in a peculiar habit, like the Easl-Indian
casts. Nevertheless, by occasional visits to the theatres,
even the most vulgar have caught a few fashionable
words, which they intermingle with their own phraseo­
logy, thus forming a most curious jargon. The word
woman is obsolete, and would be considered as a term of
reproach even by an oyster-wench ! Every individual
of the fair sex i* either a female or a lady. Instead of
that broad sonorous word w . , . we use the more elegant
term prostitute; indeed the bold old English epithet is
too harsh for the delicate auricular nerves of our females
or ladies, many of whom would feel as much alarm on
hearing it, as a valetudinarian would at the mention of
death-
Several other words have been disused by the puppy­
ism of modern refinement* There is no such thing as
sweat now-a-days; even the coal-porter and the butcher’s
boy perspire— elegant creatures! Yet the exudation
from the pores was called sweat by M ilton, a man of
the most exalted taste and comprehensive genius; a
man, whose works will be read with admiration, when
our lisping automata, with their perspiration, their ennmt
and their a propos, shall be forgotten.
Let us turn our attention to the streets, thronged with
a motley multitude. Some bowling along in superb cha­
riots, with a splendid retinue; others dashing through
thick and thin on horseback t while the majority bustle
along on foot in different directions. How soon would
the selfish passions of the human heart render this as­
semblage
i l l
semblage a scene of uproar and outrage, were they not
restrained by equitable laws! But whither are they all
hurrying Every one is in pursuit of u Happiness, our
being's end and aim”
«
T.
CHARAC *
m
112
CIIARA CTERISTICS AND ANECDOTES'
OF
D ISTIN G U ISH ED PERSONS in the FASH IO N ABLE W ORLD.
THE NOBLE COACHMAN.
E can boast of a greater number of noble coachmen
than any other nation in the world; and many of our
skilful nobility and gentry can rival any of the sons of
Phaeton, in managing the reins and smacking the whip.
Some of those spirited individuals, indeed, are not
complete proficients in the noble art of dtiving, and are
therefore liable to accidents, which, as might be expected,
only tend to rouse the fortitude and enterprise of those*
heroes. A fall upon the pavement may be equally effica­
cious with an electrical shock in exciting the energy of the
animal spirits ; and a contusion, provided no bones are
broken, may propel the blood with redoubled force into
another direction, and be the means of curing palsy or
gout; nay, should the adventurous operator dislocate
his neck, it will be a most effectual cure for the heart­
ache.
Not long since Sir Harry Hairbrain, Bart, drove his
sociable four in hand through * * * * street $ his servant
sat
113
Sat at his left-hand with his arms folded, enjoying his
afternoon’s nap, while Lady Hairbrain appeared in the
vehicle with a majestic air of superiority. One of the
handmaids of Pomona, commonly called a retailer o f
fruit, suddenly crossed the street with her whcel-t ;.ow ;
the horses took fright at her discordant screams, and Set
offfull speed over the poor woman, ran against a sea*
venger’s cart, and pitched the beautiful Lady Hairbrain
headlong into the accumulated filth of several streets;
while Sir Iiarry fell on the pavement, and broke both a
leg and an arm, and his unfortunate servant was awaked
out of a most agreeable dream by a fall into the street*
It is to be hoped that such a deplorable accident, which
had nearly been the death of a whole family, will make
gentlemen who delight in the sublime science of coachman­
ship somewhat more circumspect in the display of talents
which may cost them their lives. A few days’ practice
on Wimbledon-common would be an excellent prepara­
tive, as a fall on the turf would be unattended with any
danger, except that of a dislocation, or the rupture of a
blood-vessel j while, on the other hand, the loss of the
equilibrium in the streets of London, might be attended
with concomitant dangers;— such as being dashed to
pieces on the pavement, or rode over while down by
some drunken hackney-coachman, or desperate equestrian
heroic
THE
t
114
THE PHILOSOPHIC COXCOMB.
T he philosophic coxcomb is a new species of autonKt-
ton, unknown to our ancestors, and undcscribed by our
contemporaries.
Sir William Wiseacre stands at the head of this nume­
rous and respectable class. lie proceeds with geometri­
cal exactness in all his transactions. Finery is no mark
of his character; on the contrary, he wears a plain coat,
and, as if in ridicule of the common fop, he decorates
his menials with gorgeous liveries.
Sir William walks with a stiff and formal air, partly
occasioned by the braces which he very judiciously pur­
chased of Marlin Van Butchcl, and partly by the pride
of wealth and rank.
From the pensiveness of his aspect, it might be ima*
gined that Sir William was a man of feeling—-the very
reverse is the case; for, as hypocrisy assumes a look of
sanctity, so the philosophic coxcomb's apparent melan­
choly is only a mask to conceal his stupidity.
Sir William is amorous, but he consults his reason, and
renders his pleasures subservient to his health. Some­
times, indeed, he manifests contortions of aspect, not m
unison with happiness; but his feelings are ever selfish,
and his apparent pain is occasioned by the nausea of a
debauch, or perhaps by the pressure of a pair of new
boots! Are you in distress? Sir William hears your
complaint with the most stoical indifference, and he con­
templates your happiness with equal apathy.
This
115
This philosopher has a great number o f imitators;
perhaps not less than one thousand philosophic coxcombs
annually visit London ; and were Sir William to die,
they might all with propriety claim a part of his pro­
perty, as near relations to the family of the Wiseacres l
These gentlemen violate the moral duties with impunity.
They are shameless, irreligious, and so insignificant, that
they seem to consider themselves as bom for no other
purpose but to consume the necessaries of life, and walk
about idly with their white hands covered with soft
gloves ! Indeed, they are such perfect blanks in the crea­
tion, that were they transported to some other place, the
community w ou ld never m iss them , except in th e dim inu­
tion o f follies and v ice :. Like poisonous plant*, th e y
merely vegetate, diffuse their con tagiou s effluvia aroun d,
then sink in to corru p tio n , and are fo rgo tten fo r e v e r !
THE FEMALE MASQUERADER*
T h is lady has lo n g been distinguished fo r the elegance
and profusion o f her entertainm ents. The masqiied ball
is her favourite am u sem en t; and to obtain notoriety, sbe
scrupled not to chan ge a chapel in to a C yp rian tem p le,
for the celebration o f the profane orgies o f volup tuou s­
ness.
We are dazzled with the splendour of female extrava­
gance which erected a pavilion glorious as the infernal
Pandemonium ! Such was the refinement of fashionable
manners in London at the commencement of the nine­
teenth
*
tecnth century, that a place appropriated to devotion
was turned into a menagerie, where the goats and tnon*
keys of high life participated the intoxicating cup of
Comus.
But, alas * how transient is worldly glory! In conse­
quence of the decease of her uxorious mate, the frugal
widow is now left to starve on fifteen hundred a-yearl
Poor dear soul, she may well exclaim, u Adieu ! a long
adieu to all my greatness!” — her masquerades and routs
must be discontinued, while she is obliged to shroud her
beauties in retirement. She need not be apprehensivej)f
being harassed by visitors; it is quite unfashionable to
sympathise with the unfortunate*
THE AMB1T10U6 LADY*
T his gay and vivacious female has, for many years,
danced along the sunny path of prosperity, into which
she was conducted by love in her youthful bloom. Her
ruling passion is insatiable ambition, and by the combined
powers of a refined taste and acute understanding, sheob­
tained such an ascendancy in the fashionable world, that
she has been able to accomplish her eager desire of noble
alliances. Indeed, so determined is the ambitious lad]
respecting this favourite object, that she has been heard
to declafc^ t4*at her remaining daughter shall lead apes
sooner fnan amalgamate with plebeian alloy. Nothing
Inferior to patrician gold will do, and coronets, stars, and
garters.
117
garters, o c c u p y h e r im a g in a tio n : Egregious and Imperious
woman! as if happiness con sisted in title s, equ ipages, o r
the isolated fo rm a lity o f ran k.
H er u n su ccessfu l attem p t t o en tan gle a n oble agricu l­
turist in the m atrim onial n et, has been th e occasion o f
t m uch m irth in th e circles o f fashion. W h e n th is ru stic
i peer discovered that her G----- pursued him on the same
(^principle th a t she w o u ld h u n t a musk-rat, he ungraciously
l fled b eyon d the sp h ere o f her influence ; an d he has since
I been very cau tio u s o f ap p ro ach in g th e p u rlieu s o f dissi-
fepation, w h ere th e fair sp ortsw om an co n tin u es to p ro w l
(Un quest o f q u a rry , th o u gh she often fin d s h er vigilan ce
M N tta te d , and th e p rey snatched fro m h er grasp b y
tfoacbersy p a rticu la rly opera-girk, female singers, an d
actresses.
TH E PINK OF NOBILITY#
■ a
r
T h is am iable an d accom p lish ed w o m a n , w h ose heart
tc Seats in unison w ith the m ost gen erous em otion s, has, on
|^ il occasions, evin ced a su p eriority o f in tellect com bin ed
Purith the m ost co n ciliatin g u rb an ity. W it h a p o etic ge«
f- ius, chaste and classic, and a taste refin ed b y con versa-
k ’ on w ith the m o st intelligent persons o f both sexes, th e
► -•■ m
i* of nobility is estim ab le fo r still greater p erfection s.
ph“; is the pride and pleasure o f her heart to fu lfil th^ social
ptf-uties o f d au gh ter, w ife, and m o th e r; an d h a p p y w o u ld
' be for m any high-bred dam es w ere th e y to im itate her
fftf exam p le,
i
i
ex a m p le, an d relinquish th eir ch ase o f the phantom
P l e a s u r e , w h ich th e y n o w p u rsu e th rou gh the laby­
rin th o f life, like th ose id iots w h o th ro n g to gaze on the
optical illusions o f th e m agic lan tern a t th e P h a n t a s ­
m a g o r i a .
The fair subject of this sketch has long been the pa­
troness of genius; and if she has, in some instances, been
attracted by the whirlpool of fashionable amusements,
she ever preserved the dignity of virtue ; and shared the
frivolities of others, rather to avoid the imputation of
singularity than from levity of disposition.
This incomparable female is as great a favourite of the
Muses as of the Graces; and they mutually inspired her
mind, when, in the concluding stanza of an elegant poem
to her children, she thus describes her maternal feelings:
u Hope o f my life ! dear children o f my heart!
That anxious heart to each fond feeling true,
T o you still pants each pleasure to impart,
And more— oh transport!------ reach its home and you.”
T H E MAGKAKIMOUS CHEVALIER*
T his honourable man is probably the descendant of a
druid, and that he inherits the merciful disposition of his
ancestors is evident, from the delight which he has taken
in human sacrifices. Born to the inheritance of a consi­
derable tract of land, instead of pursuing agricultural im­
provements, he relinquished the plough for the sabre 5
and
and being sent on a crusade, he soon gave incontestable
proofs of his zeal and prowess by the immolation of old
men and boys, the frightening women and children into
fits, and illuminating the landscape by burning the cot­
tages of the peasantry*
While engaged in these exploits, he received a contu­
sion in the hand, by a stone thrown by some old woman.
It is to be regretted that the greatest heroes are sometimes
doomed to perish by the most ignoble instruments. Pyr­
rhus, king of Epirus, lost his life by a similar disaster.
The magnanimous chevalier was more fortunate, for when
his delicate nerves recovered from the tremor occasioned
by the accident, he summoned all his fortitude, and re-
: solved to imitate some hero celebrated in the annals of
: chivalry.
The chevalier Bayard, “ sans peur et sans reproebe”
came to the recollection of our doughty knight, who re­
flected that though by imitating that brave soldier, and
dying with his face to the enemy, he might have the fe-
c licity of being recorded by the historic muse, yet wishing
to continue a little longer in this world, he resolved to
imitate some other knight equally celebrated.
The illustrious Sir John Falstaff was the man, and our
hero, loudly exclaiming, “ Honour has noskill in surgery P*
„ scampered off the field of battle as fast as his Buce*
phalus could carry him.
Soon after his arrival in a place of safety, the news of
the discomfiture of his ferocious myrmidons reached his
„ cars; and he wept with all imaginable woe at their un-
,‘j^ timely end, exclaiming amid his sobs, “ Had the poor
fellows
120
fellows followed my example, they might yet have been
in the land of the living !”
Our valiant and sagacious chevalier next tried his abi­
lities in a great assembly, where his rhetorical efforts
have generally been confined to a monosyllable, or a few
significant shrugs.
In the circles of fashion, he is distinguishable for a
Ix-oad, smooth, unmeaning countenance, overspread with
a settled smirk, like the thin film which covers the surface
o f a fetid and stagnant pool. With respect to intellectual
endowments, his reason is very lit*. If*above the fixed mer­
cury of idiocy; but his muscular powers, in scenes of
festivity, have, on some occasions, recommended him to
the notice of the fashionable fair, who are seldom ca­
pable ofjudging beyond exterior accomplishments.
T H E
THE TEMPLE OF MODERN PHILOSOPHY.
a v i s i o n .
K .U M IN A T IN G the other evening upon the numerous
discoveries which the ingenious are daily making in phi­
losophy, I was led by a train of thought to an anticipa­
tion of the future fame of our sages and literati. While
I continued absorbed in these reflections I fell asleep,
and a wonderful vision presented itself to my imagina­
tion.
Methought I found myself travelling on a wide road,
accompanied by several persons of both sexes, whose
looks betrayed ardour and impatience. As they pro­
ceeded, I found by their conversation, that they were
going to the Temple of Modern Philosophy, to receive
from the Goddess the reward of their .services. I felt an
inclination to turn back, from a consciousness that 1 had
done nothing to merit her favour; but my companions
excited my curiosity, by describing the .magnificence of
the Temple and the benignity of the Goddess, insomuch
that I resolved to proceed.
We soon arrived at the entrance of the Temple, which
was grand beyond description. Triumphal arches,
adorned with festoons, and dedicated to the honour pf
g V o l t a i r e ,
122 \
V o l t a i r e , B o l i n g b r o k e , S h a f t e s b u r y , R o u s s e a u ,
H u m e , and G ibb o n , led to the portico, which was sup­
ported by the most magnificent columns of white marble ;
they were of the elegant Corinthian order; but, what
appeared to me very extraordinary, they were inverted!
The portico was open, emblematic of the philanthropy
of the new philosophy, who unfolds her mysteries to the
human race.
My companions, who had disputed during our journey
with all the eagerness of competition, were now silent. A
6acred awe seemed to pervade the assembly, as we slowly
advanced into the body of the Temple. A vast azure
curtain of silk bespangled with diamonds, reflecting the
rays of several lustres which illumined the lofty dome,
was suddenly raised, and we beheld Philosophy seated on
a throne of gold, adorned with gems, “ in a ll the hues
reflected lig h t can g iv e * 9 She was a majestic figure ; her
countenance exhibited the delicate bloom of youth, dig­
nified with the intelligence of riper years, and enlivened by
a seductive smile that fascinated the beholder. Her robe
was purple ; she wore a crown of gold, inscribed with
the words N e c e s s i t y , R e a s o n , V i r t u e , in the three
primitive colours of nature. On her right hand sat
P r i d e , adorned with jewels, and inflated with the idea of
self-importance; on her left, V a n i t y appeared in a gar­
ment of many colours, continually varying her posture,
and viewing herself, with smiles, in a mirror.
Before the throne stood S o p h i s t r y ; whose robe
changed its hue every moment; an insidious smile played
©ver her features, and she held in her right hand a cup
filled
123
filed with intoxicating nectar. F a s h i o n stood behind
Sophistry, with her eyes turned alternately on the god­
dess and her votaries.
The wall of the temple, behind the throne, was com­
posed of one entire prismatic substance, .through which
the most enchanting perspective views delighted the eye*
Shady groves, sunny glades, trees bending with fruitage,
flowers of variegated bloom, clear fountains, sprightly
cascades, embellished with sunshine from an unclouded
sky, presented a most inviting paradise*
We gazed with mute admiration: the Goddess waved
her silver sceptre, and instantly the temple was filled with
harmony. The music was quite in the modern taste, of
that lively kind which excludes the strong passions, and
excites to mirth by a gentle titillation. Philosophy again
waved her sceptre; the music ceased; and, while our
bosoms were thrilling with pleasurable sensations, she
thus addressed u s :—
4
4My beloved votaries! welcome* thrice welcome to
all the delights of wisdom ! You shall all participate the
bounty of Philosophy; but the metaphysician, as the
most profoundly versed in my arcana, is entitled to the
most distinguished honours. Sophistry ! lead the vene­
rable K a n t to my throne; I long to reward a veteran
who has so often contended against my enemies.”
The sage was led forward by Sophistry, who presented
her cordial to his lips. Having taken an exhilirating
draught, he thus addressed Philosophy:—
4
4 Great Goddess, who hast been adored in every age
under different names, behold an aged man, who, for a
c % r series
9crles of years, has studied thy mysteries* Like thy
adorers among the ancients, I have described thee as the
child of Nature; and, by inculcating the doctrine of
necessity, I have demonstrated, that it is to thee alone \vc
are to look for the development of the human faculties ;
that under thy influence the morals of society are in a state
of progressive improvement towards that perfectibility,
which is attainable by reason. The simplicity of this
system excludes future retribution, and I have impercep­
tibly induced numbers of proselytes to consider thee as
thefirst and onlyfair. Convinced of the propensity of the
human mind to superstition, and aware of the charms of
novelty, I denominated thy doctrine the Critical Philoso-
phyyas one that inveftigated the imperfections of all other
institutions. Finally, O Goddess! I have argued, that
with thy aid the generations of mankind will attain per­
fection. Thy handmaid, Sophistry, has often visited arid
inspired me with sublime and profound ideas ; and, with
the aid of the witty who have become proselytes to thy
system, I hope to establish thy dominion over mankind.
Myriads of Illuminate of both sexes, irradiate the Conti­
nent, and the people of Britain seem well inclined to the
adoption of thy precepts. It must be the study of thy
disciples to effect a revolution in morals ; and, by indulg­
ing the human passions and appetites, persuade the na­
tions that pleasure is the reward of thy votaries.”
When the Philosopher ceased, the Goddess smiled
with ineffable affection, and, extending her right hand,
the sage kissed it with the utmost devotion. Sophistry
then
then led him to a seat on the right side of the throne*
where he immediately sunk into slumber.
The next person singled from the crowd was the re­
doubtable dramatist, K o t z e b u e . There was a wild
and impetuous ardour in his eye, the effect of an effer­
vescent genius. He came forward with a confident look,
like a man of the world, who considered effrontery as a
proof of his good-breeding. Sophistry offered him her
rfewly-replenished cup ; but he declined it, and, with an
airch smile, whispered, “ No, my dear friend, I have so
long been accustomed to quaff your nectar, that it has
become insipid to me ; but I hare persuaded thousand
to drink so deeply of it as to produce complete intoxica­
tion.n
He then looked up to Philosophy with a vivacious air,
and thus expressed his pretensions to her favour:—
MAll-beauteous idol, behold thy warmest advocate,
who comes to lay the wreath of genius at thy feet. 'Ti$
to thy irresistible influence, O Philosophy! that I owe
the success of my endeavours to immoralise Europe ! I
have disseminated thy doctrine among the higher classes
of mankind, many of whom have adored thee as their tu­
telary divinity; by my ridicule of religion and the artful
exhibition of sensuality, under the guise of nobleness of
mind, I have at once effected the depravation of taste
and morals. In Germany, France, and England, my
dramas have, in co-operation with deism and atheism,
turned the current of popular opinion in thy favour.
In France I found but little difficulty to establish my sen­
timents, as that nation has ever preferred pompous pro-
g 3 cessions
126
cessions and extravagant idea9 to simplicity and good
6ense; but in England I met, and still continue to
meet, with several obstacles, among a people, who
have hitherto been accustomed to consider the pas­
sions as the auxiliaries of Virtue. The genius of my
translators, however, has partly triumphed over the
obstinate taste of their countrymen, and prejudice is va­
nishing before thy effulgence.M
The Goddess replied, 4
4My dear Kotzebue, thou hast
been an active and indefatigable servant;— receive thy re­
ward.1’ She then touched him with her sceptre, and his
raiment was Suddenly changed to a purple robe, bestud-
ed with brilliants. Fashion then led him to a seat beside
that of his countryman.
Several other candidates for reward now came for­
ward, among whom I recognised P a in e , and a celebrated
modern Lyrist. The Goddess gave them all a most gra­
cious reception ; but she conferred particular honours on
the facetious bard- 4
4Welcome,” said she, 4
6my witty,
my incomparable son ! to thy genius am I indebted for.
the progress of my power in Britain. Thy more than
Orphean lyre has transformed many who were formerly
discreet into satyrs of dissipation. Fashion, crown thy
favourite poet with his well-earned laurel, and let the
wreath be sufficiently thick to defend his venerable head
from the cane of an insolent adversary. Place him beside
his illustrious compter Kotzebue.”
A whimsical-looking individual, apparently intoxicated,
now approached the throne. I discovered that he was a
Senator^ who had written a Romance which was prejudU
cial
cuff to the cause of virtue. The Goddess beckoned to
Sophistry, who conducted him to a seat beside the Poet.
A party of females now entered the Temple.— Their
dress was in the extreme of the mode ; each wore a wig,
and seemed to take a pride in the exposure of the neck
and bosom. One of the train bore a standard, with this
inscription, e q u a l i t y o f t h e s e x e s . The air of self-
sufficiency, the broad and scrutinising stare, the authoii-
tative brow, and masculine stride, of these ladies, excited
my surprise ; and although I did not see any offensive
weapons, I fancied for a moment that they were a de­
tachment of Amazons.
The Standard-bearer thus addressed the Goddess;—
u We are come, O celestial Philosophy! to worship in
thy Temple ; to prefer our vows, and supplicate thy in­
spiration. W e have formed a new class of intelligent
beings, and are known by the denomination of F e m a l e
P h i l o s o p h e r s . Our enemies have stigmatised us with
the name of Voluptuaries, because we inculcate the un­
restrained indulgence of the passions, and invite mankind
to enjoy the pleasures of life ; but the feeble opposition
of our calumniators must shrink into non-existence be­
fore the enchanting delights which thou hast prepared for
thy votaries. T o prove our claim to thy protection, we
have disseminated thy principles by every means which
wit could suggest or genius promote. We have written
poems, romances, and novels, for this purpose, anc! trans­
lated every work that we conceived would tend to in­
flame the heart and corrupt the morals of others; and we
have been successful beyond our most sanguine hopes.
G 4 It
1 * 7
It remains for thee, O beloved Philosophy ! to reward us
according to our respective merits ; and when each
claimant has detailed her achievements in thy service, we
hope that thou wilt at least place us upon an equality
with the other sex, and realise our long-wished-for love
of power.”
When this fair orator had concluded her speech, an­
other female advanced with a most graceful and theatric
air; but she was prevented from the exertion of her elo­
quence by the Goddess, who expressed her approbation
of the party with smiles of triumph. a Glorious sera !”
she exclaimed; u when woman has assumed her natural
equality, and demonstrated, that1 the love ofpleasure and
the love of sway* predominate in every exhausted female
mind. Yes,my beautiful votaries, you shall be placed upon
an equality with your admirers, who sit at my right hand.
There is no necessity for each of you to mention her
claims ; for, though I have long been convinced of the
eloquence of the sex, and doubt not that your orations on
this occasion would fill a folio volume, I would recom­
mend it to you to reserve your rhetoric to persuade your
husbands, lovers, and mankind at large, of my superior
title to their devotion.”
Although the ladies seemed disappointed at not being
permitted to speak successively, yet, when Sophistry
conducted them to a seat equally elevated with that of
the male philosophers, and when they surveyed the su­
perb canopy above their heads, I could observe their eyes
sparkle with pleasure.
These distinguished female philosophers being seated,
Sophistry
Sophistry addressed' the motley throng which filled the
area before the throne, and whom I discovered, by their
discourse, to be Pamphleteers, who had written in favour
of the Goddess.
“ Beloved auxiliaries !” cried Sophistry, “ none of
you shall go unrewarded. Philosophy is ever beneficent
to her adorers. You shall. . . Here she was inter­
rupted by a confused rtoise from without, and a female,
called I error, rushed into the Temple, vociferating, with
frantic gestures, “ The enemy is coming!” These
dreadful sounds produced dismay throughout the asu
-
sembly. Ev6n the Goddess trembled on her throne, and
all her worshippers seemed thunderstruck. A Vivid
splendor now illumined the portico, and the next moment
Religion entered. Her stature was tall, her counted
nance majestic and serene; a diadem of the three hues
of the rainbow surrounded her head, and her robe was
light azure of the most delicate tint of the celestial re­
gions, whence she had descended. On her right ap*
peared her faithful attendant Truth, who held a burning*
glass in her left hand, and a fiery sword in her right;
The other attendant of Religion was Morality, who ap*
peared on her left, clothed in white, and holding in her
left hand a Bible, into which she looked with reverential
love.
Religion now approached the throne of her enemy,
atid, with a voice at once melodious and impressive, thus
addressed the assembly :— “ Unhappy beings ! your en*
mity against me has effected’your own destruction. By
embracing the delusive pleasures of Sensuality^ whom yml
G 5 misnamed
130
misnamed Philosophy, your minds are incapacitated for the
enjoyment of my simple but permanent delights; it only
remains, in obedience to the dictates of immutable jus­
tice, that you should be punished for your impious writ­
ings, which have misled such numbers of your fellow-
creatures.........Advance, O Truth ! my faithful attendant,
and with thy resistless sword destroy these soul-slayers,
and let their influence cease from this moment.”
Truth instantly touched the throne of the n e w p h i l o ­
s o p h y with her fiery sword, and a wonderful metamor­
phosis took place throughout the Temple. Philosophy
fell from her throne, and was changed into a viper ; the
Metaphysician was transformed into a mole ; the Drama­
tist into a goat; and the other sages into monkeys of
different kinds. The female Philosophers were changed
into parrots, and the Pamphleteers who surrounded me
shrunk into the form of toads.
My heart fainted with horror as I gazed on these pro­
digies, and I every moment expected some dreadful
change would befal myself for my temerity in visiting
this odious place- While 1 stood speechless and trem­
bling, Truth touched the floor with her sword, and a
sudden concussion overturned the Temple from its foun­
dation. The throne vanished in a thin vapour; the vi­
treous wall disappeared ; and beyond, where it had ex­
panded its deceptive medium, instead of a rich landscape,
1 beheld a blasted heath overgrown with thorns and
thistles.
At this scene of desolation my fears increased ; I turned
towards Religion, and was going to prostrate myself be­
fore
131
fore her, when Morality prevented me, and putting the
Bible into my hand, whispered, “ You are now safe ; that
book will direct you to the Temple of Religion, which is
on the road to Salvation.” My spirits were revived, and
a new hope animated my heart, as 1 clasped the treasure
of Divine Knowledge in my hands. Religion turned upon
me her majestic eyes, beaming with philanthropy:
u Fear not, O Man !” said she, “ I will ever be thy guar­
dian while thou pursuest the path pointed out by Reve­
lation. Go, feeble mortal! reform thy manners ; correct
thy passions by the vigilance and authority of Reason ;
remember that Christianity is the truePhilosophy* and that
happiness consists in piety to the Creator, and universal
benevolence.”
While Religion was speaking, 1 felt unusual transport
animate my heart, insomuch that I awoke and beheld the
sun just rising. The vision of the night enlightened and
purified my soul, and incited me to that activity in the
performance of the social virtues, which alone can render
the life of man valuable to himself and beneficial to hia
fellow-creatures.
«
G 6 P Q L I T IC A I ,
POLITICAL QUACKERY.
102
Here public Zeal the alligator hides
Her selfish eggs, and for their birth provides;
O f incubation in no need they stand,
But hatch in Popularity's hot sand ;
T o prey with open mouths away they scour,
Y et seem to mourn the country they devour.
Man made for K in gs! those optics are but dim
T h at tell you so say rather they for him.
* * * * * * * *
Oh \ bright occasions o f dispensing good,
How seldom used, how little understood !
T o 'n
u
rse with tender care the thriving arts*
Watch ev’rybcam philosophy imparts ;
T o give religion her unbridled scope,
Nor judge by statute a believer’shope ;
T o touch the sword with conscientious aweA
Nor draw it but when duty bids him draw;
T o sheath it in the peace-restoring close,
W ith joy beyond what victory bestows :
Blest country, where these kingly glories shine!
Blest England, if this happiness be thine !
C o w p e k .
S lN C E Peace has revisited Europe, where every good
man wishes she may preside till time shall be no more,
we may venture to investigate the motives which induced
Mr.
133
Mr. P * * * and his virtuous Coadjutors to involve' tins
country in a tedious and sanguinary contest with France#
May it not be fairly concluded that the late ministry
involved their country in war that they might retain their
places ? This at once clears up the mystery : the motives
were to them just and necessary. Besides, several symp­
toms in the body politic indicated inflammation, foi?
which the principal State Qttack very judiciously pre*
scribed phlebotomy. Another alarming circumstance was,
a superfluity of wealth, which, by the introduction of
luxurious habits, threatened to corrupt the morals of the
people. He therefore, like a true and disinterested pa­
triot, collected the redundant cash and exported it to
Germany, whence part of it has long since communicated
the contagion of wealth to France. A t the same time hd
recommended certain bits of paper, as a lighter circulat­
ing medium of political sanity, similar to the supposed
beneficial effect of the transfusion of blood.
The taxes on hair-powder, armorial bearings, and
Come, were also introduced by the minister for the bene­
volent purpose of repressing pride and enforcing economy.
To persons who were deeply infected with the politi­
cal mania, he prescribed the cold-bath and solitary re­
cesses, where there was “ room for mediation ev'n to
madnessV*
Economics,,
* The generous sympathy and humane exertions o f a spiiited com­
moner, in the investigation of the sufferings o f State Prisoners con*>
lined in the ceils o f the Hou»e of Correction in Odd-bath Fields,
merits the grateful acknowledgments of his countrymen. 'While
som
e
*34
Economics, or the strictest frugality in the use of ne­
cessaries, was recommended by this magnanimous man ;
€
<and, strange to tell! he practised what he preach'd.*'
His abstemiousness was most remarkable in the use of
wine, for it is well known that he seldom got drunk
above once a-day. What an illustrious instance of self-
denial in a man who carried the keys of the iron chest of
the State! * * * * * * *
Indeed, abstinence was very reluctantly adopted by
honest John Bull, v/ho, from time immemorial, had been
celebrated for his roast-beef and plum-pudding. lie did
not relish the flavour of Count Rumford’s black broth*
and he considered digested bones as a meagre substitute
for his former nutritive aliment. Nay, even the asseve*
rations of that sublime naturalist, Dr. Darwin, could not
persuade John to become so far a lover of plants, as to
believe that the branches of trees would make as good
Tjread as wheat; and he considered the produce of his
own corn-fields as preferable to the insipid rice of India.
When our wonderful State %uack9with the rest of his
under-graduatesy found that they could no longer impose
upon the credulity of the people, they relinquished their
project of destroying our political constitution, which their
some men, prompted by ambition, scruple not to violate the rights
of free-men, it is gratifying to contemplate the struggles of the true
patriot against oppression, and his unremitt: d and successful endea­
vours to mitigate the miseries of the disconsolate prisoner. $\ich
have been the exertions of Sir F r a n c i s B v r d e t t , who is entitled
to a more glorious appellation than human pike can confei.—-He h
t.hz P r i s o ne r 's I’ iUENn,
BQ&nims
135
nostrums had reduced to the last stage of a galloping
consumption. So miraculous, however, were the pre­
scriptions of that celestial physician, P e a c e , that the
State is already a most hopeful convalescent, endued with
a renovation of vital energy that will ensure the complete
restoration of health and happiness.
Among other empirical remedies, caustics were reconv
mended by certain philosophers, to consume the proud-
flesh of the State ; but their rash application would have
rendered the cure as bad as the disease. Their intern*-
perate conduct and wordy enthusiasm were productive of
great injury to the Constitution, by giving the State
Quacks in office a pretext for the adoption of a severe
yegimen, which almost destroyed the patient.
Powerful correctives, like those administered by our
late State Doctor and his College of Political Physicians,
had reduced John Bull so low, that he was obliged to
lean on the oak as his only support, and the staff of his
old age.
Some State Physicians proposed alteratives, for the
invigoration of the Constitution \ but, notwithstanding
the eloquence of their president, John has hitherto been
-very cautious of adopting their prescriptions. Indeed,
the poor fellow has been so pestered with the iirpo* Ut­
ility of his good friends on both sides9 that he lately fell
into a violent passion, and swore he believed they were
all Quack Doctors, and he would no longer tnnt his
life in their hands. John avers that “ his British con?
stitution is a very good one, if left to itselfs but d----- n
these
these modern physicians,” cries he in a heat, u with
their bleeding, and their purging, their alterative pillsy and
potions, they have almost been the death of me! I wish
these Quacks would let me alone, and PH be bound my
constitution will last for many centuries. But if I should
be so foolish as to swallow the mental caniharides import­
ed from France, or submit to the continued application
of the lancet of war, I should soon be a dead man !”
John is perfectly right, and now Peace and Plenty
have returned, hand in hand, to reward him for his forti­
tude ; and he has before him the blissful prospect of re­
viving commerce, and the firm re-establishment of that
constitution, which has been violated under the plea of
necessity.
Indeed, the wisdom of Administration will be best de­
monstrated in their restoration of the Constitution to its
primitive simplicity and dignity. This will be an effec­
tual preventive to the introduction of what they call
French Principles. The people of the United Kingdoms
have too much good sense to wish for the adoption of
any other system of government, in preference to their
own, which, in its original principles, contains the con­
servation of the rights of man. Even the boasted Con­
sular government of France is, at best, a political expert
menty the good or the pernicious effects of which, time
4
only can discover.
With respect to parties, that animosity which too long
prevailed seems gradually softening into good-will; and,
indeed, vMrile we descant on universal philanthropy, it is
but
but rational that our charity should begin at home, and
that congenial sentiments of brotherly love should ani­
mate the breasts of the community.
4
< Friends, parents, kindred, first we should embrace;
Our country next, and next all human race.”
Perhaps the expression ofjoy never was more general
and sincere than that of the people of London on the
cessation of hostilities. Rich and poor, old and young,
united in one gratulatory acclamation, and hailed the re­
turn of peace as the Laplanders welcome the sun.
At night a variety of beautiful illuminated transparen- '
cles were exhibited in several parts of the town ; while
the mingling rays of light from the coloured lamps and
the windows, diffused a lustre at once glorious and enli­
vening. Strange as it may be thought, the indigent part
of the community excelled the opulent in the art of illu­
minating. An artist of the gentle craft enlightened the
whole front of his stall in Piccadilly with four candle-
ends ; and an old woman, who tempts every passing son
of Adam with fruit, which must not be touched i;nder
the penalty of one halfpenny, displayed three whole can­
dles in her temple of Pomona!
A notorious manufacturer of razor-strops gave a proof
of his selfish disposition by the display of a transparency
with the inscription “ Peace and a comfortable shave'*
Thus, with true commercial economy, this phlegmatic
insect endeavoured to combine his selfish views with £
semblance of public rejoicing !
From the horrid yells in different streets, and the blaze
of
1 3 7
138?
of light, one might have been led to imagine, that, like
cfd Rome, modern London had been set on fire by some
descendant of Nero ; and that, like him, the incendiary
had commanded the wild beasts at the Towes and Isxe-
tcr-’Change to be let loose on the people. But these
shrieks and howls were not those of calamity, but
triumph, proceeding from the throats of a most curious
assemblage of butchers' boys, who seemed to take pride
in the idea that the art of killing was to be exclusively
confined to them.
Nor were the demonstrations of joy confined to but­
chers ; thousands of mechanics and shopmen shared
the honours of disturbing the public peace by their vo­
ciferations on this occasion. Taylors, hair-dressers, and
xnen-milliners, were most conspicuous, and destroyed
large quantities of ammunition, sweating that as the war
bad begun in smoke it should end in f r e ! Indeed, the
fierce looks and martial stride of these heroes might have
induced us to imagine that there was an invasion instead
of a peace.
Several hearty cocks among the laborious classes, ex­
pressed their satisfaction by spontaneous bursts of laugh­
ter, which might be called the exuberance o*’ mirth. Fro*
lickscme young fellows hurried through the crowd, ex­
claiming “ Don’t shove the ladies!” while they almost
overturned every one that stood in their way; and others,
offended at persons who would, not illuminate, broke
their windows, thus demonstrating the puissance of the
majesty of the people !
Persons of a philosophic cast contrived to unite econo­
my
my with expence* A fishmonger in the Strand displayed
the skin of a cod as a transparency, or rather as a sacri­
fice to departing famine; and a frugal householder in
Bloomsbury-sqtiare, converted his drinking-glasses and
salt-ccllars into temporary lamps*
The buz of such a multitude of happy people in the
#
strcets, the music of barrel-organs, and the reiterated
discharge of old rusty firelocks and pistols, filled the air
with a concord of sweet sounds!
In several parts of the town, the feeling heart was gra­
tified by observing all the social affections in full play.
Mothers strained their little sons in a fond embrace, and
pointed to the figure of peace; while beautiful young
women accompanied their brothers, lovers, or husbands,
and leaned with rapture on those arms for support,
which were no longer endangered by the sabre of merci­
less ambition!
O ! it was a most blissful sight, to see all the inhabit­
ants of the greatest city in the world electrified by one
universal sensation of joy ! Where is the bosom so cal­
lous that would not participate this festival of humanity ?
where the mortal who would not rejoice in the tormina**
tion of want and war i
The declamation of men of words has too long domi­
neered over the hearts of mankind; let us now do justice
to the merit of men of deeds9 and such deeds too, as,
under the blessing of Divine Providence, facilitated the
restoration of peace. Let us remember, that the Union
Flag was triumphantly displayed on the towers of Alex­
andria by an Hibernian, who led cur brave battalions to
co n q u est
u o
conquest and to glory, while Fame overspread the tomb*
of his noble predecessor * with unfading laurel*
V
As for the empire of the Ocean it is all our own. The
achievements of our sailors during the war have never
been paralleled ; and our admirals, by a combination of
talents, wisdom, and heroism, have obtained a series of
naval victories, which will not only consecrate the fame
of their country, but eternize their names in the annals of
the world 1 A
But after we have taken a retrospect of those more than
chivalrous conquests, in which magnanimity triumphed
over opposition, we may turn with still greater satisfac*
tion to the contemplation of peace, which has once more
harmonized the passions of the nations of Europe*
# General Abercromby*
*
D R A M A T I C
I ll
DRAMATIC QUACKERY.
T h e loud demand from year to year the same,
Cripples Invention and makes Fancy lame;
While Farce itself, most mournfully jejune,
Calls for the kind assistance of a tune ;
And authors hear one universal cry —
Tickle and entertain us, or we die !
COWPER.
O f all the amusements invented by the ingenuity of
man, a theatric representation of human manners and
passions is the most interesting and instructive. When
the energy of sentiment, and the pathos of the warmest
feelings of our nature, are combined with the dignified
action of the tragic muse, we sympathize with suffering
virtue, and we are warned against the practice of vice,
which is productive of the most calamitious events.
The mirthful sallies of Thalia are still more pleasing,
by holding, *c as it were, the mirror up to nature she
satirises our follies in so agreeable a manner, that in the
guise of mirth we embrace wisdom.
T r a g e d y m ay be term ed the su blim e, and C o m e d y
the beautiful, o f the dram a. T h e fo rm er rouses th e pas-
' sions b y an irresistible appeal to th e h e a r t; th e la tter, b y
exhibiting a liv e ly p ortrait o f w h atev er is rid icu lou s o r
censurable in p u b lic m anners, at on ce co rrects th e foible
and enforces p ro p riety o f conduct#
1 «
The earliest account we have of the English drama is
recorded by Haywood, who informs us, that in the reign
of Henry II. the M ysteries, a kind of representation of
the miracles and select passages from Scripture, were
exhibited by the monks in London. This theatric repre­
sentation was succeeded by the M oralities, in which the
virtues and vices were personified.
Interludes were first written and performed in the reign
of Henry VIII.; and soon afterwards dramatic compo­
sitions! under the denomination of Tragedies and Come*
dies* were represented and published.
During the short reign of the superstitious and cruel
Mary, taste was repressed by bigotry, and theatrical
amusements suspended. On the accession of Elizabeth,
however, the elegant entertainments of the stage were
revived and cherished with renovated vigour. The Tragic
Muse now visited Albion, and inspired her favourite
Shakspeare, whose just delineation of characters and
manners, and affecting expression of the passions, have
never been equalled.
<
< Each form o f many-colourcd life he drew,
Exhausted worlds and then imagined new :
Existence saw him spurn her bounded reign,
And panting Time Coil’d ifter him in vain/’
Johnson.
Ben Jonson, the contemporary of Shakspeare, also
■ contributed to the improvement of the English drama.—
His comedy of E very M an in his Hum our has often been
t revived; and several of his pieces, notwithstanding ob­
solete
\
I 14*3
soletc phrases and the quaintness of the language, abound
with lively characteristics of human nature, and spirited
satire against vice and folly.
Since that period our drama has been gradually refined.
The pathetic Otway and the elegant Rowe have been
favoured with the inspiration of Melpomene; while
Thalia bestowed her mirth-inspiring smiles on Cibber,
Vanburgh, Farquhar, Congreve, and Steele.
Our comic writers, however, were rather the abettors
of licentiousness than the correctors of folly ; insomuch
that a French author ascribes the depravity of public
manners in this capital to the pernicious influence of our
comedies.
Sentimental comedy deserves an exemption from this
charge. Steele’s Conscious L overs9 and several dramatic
pieces of a similar nature, have contributed to polish and
improve society : .and our modern comedies, though more
feeble and uninteresting, arc more consistent with deco­
rum, then the lively productions of our early comic
writers.
The W est Indian, the Schoolfo r Scandal, the R iv a ls yand
a few other good comedies, have rescued this age from the
condemnation of stupidity ; but, with the exception of
these, the puerile and vulgar productions of the present
race of dramatists, are too contemptible even to deserve
the chastisement of satire.
Our modern comedies are, in general, flippant and
uninteresting, abounding with a repetition of cant phrases,
puns, and pert dialogue.
Pantomimic gesticulation and outrageous rant, inter­
mingled
U i .
mingled with, impious execrations, constitute the very
spirit of modern tragedy : such is Pizarro• Indeed, the
radical defect of the modern drama is the insignificance
of the subject chosen by the writer.
Our greatest critic * observes, that Mas knowledge ad­
vances, pleasure passes from the eye to the ear, but re­
turns, as it declines from the ear to the eye.” Is it not
evident then, in consequence of the rage for pompous
processions, and the buffoonery of farce and pantomime,
that the public taste is rather in a state of retrogression,
and that the blue-beard stories of the nursery, so gene­
rously presented to his countrymen by Mr. Colman,
may eventually prevail over the plays of Shakspeare ?
Half a century has elapsed since the introduction of
pantomime upon the English stage. This revolution in
taste was effected by Queen Mab, a pantomime got up
by Woodward; and the queen of the fairies so effectually
inchanted the public, that often since that period, pan­
tomimes have been popular when tragedies have been
hissed off the stage. Was this in consequence of a de­
pravation of morals, or did more luxurious habits render
the national taste imbecile ? Indeed, the success of panto­
mime is a proof that the people, who had long been ac­
customed to f a U gradually became satisfied with seeing*
A sort of “ second childishness” preferred show to sen­
timent ; and the passion for nobler entertainments was
refined into a desire to behold a gorgeous pageant,
which, by filling the imagination, prevented the toil of
thinking. Perhaps indolence is the cause of this lethar-
* Dr. Samuel Johnson.
gic
145
gtc apathy; if so, the disease is curable t— electricity may
yet do wonders.
Let us now turn our attention to those recent innova­
tions, by which the popular taste was insulted and de­
praved. The Dramatic Empiricism which occasioned a
temporarysuspension of the publicjudgment, deserves our
particularanimadversion, and shall therefore be introduced
under the semblance of a species of mental disease.
This pest^was first imported from the Continent in
bundles of paper, inscribed with Teutonic cbaractersy and
translated into English, which communicated the con­
tagion to the higher ranks of society with the rapidity of
the electric fluid. The first symptoms were a strange
admiration of ghosts, mouldering castles, sulphureous
flames, bloody daggers, and other terrific images of a
distempered imagination. In this stage of the disease it
may be denominated the Spectre-mania; but on the intro­
duction of a larger quantity of the infectious matter, the
dangerous symptoms increased, and it assumed a formi­
dable appearance under the name of Kotczebue-mania.
The unhappy wight who was destined to do this irre­
parable injury to the morals of his countrymen, was one
Benjamin Thompson, whom the courtesy of this title-
loving age has since dignified with the appellation E s*
quire! We are told that he concealed the papers im­
pregnated with the infection for ten years, till, in a
moment of enthusiasm, he sent them to the manager of
one of the theatres, who administered the virus to the
public.
y ThU
This cruel disease, which has spared neither age nor
sex in Germany, France, or England, takes its name from
an empiric named Kotzebue. The patients were afflicted
with a childish passion for noise, paintings, the startings
and ravings of others deeply affected with the same dis­
temper, and a strong abhoiTence of common sense* This
species of madness induced the women of every rank to
divest themselves of a great part of their clothes. They
also cilt off their hair, which would have contributed to
the restoration of health, had the disorder affected only
the head, but unfortunately its principal malignancy
operated on the heart, where it extinguished the light of
morality which had been kindled by a virtuous education.
What had formerly been considered crimes were meta­
morphosed into virtues, and religion and decency were
thrown aside like old garments.
When the distemper became general, the people
thronged to our places of public amusement, where the
contagion was most powerful. Thither the old and the
young, the grave and the gay, hastened, like insects, to
flutter round the flame of licentiousness: to add to the
absurdity, the very people who wasted their time and
money in pursuit of a phantom, were clamorous against
the high price of provisions ! The curious names given
to different portions of the infectious matter induced the
people to purchase it just as they do other quack medi­
cines. They had not the most remote idea that what
was introduced under the plausible name of theatric en­
tertainments could have any pernicious influence, till fatal
experience
experience made them feel the imbecility produced by
immoral dramas. On the introduction of the Stranger9
our ladies thronged to behold the fair German who had
made a fashionable slip. By a little conversation with
her they not only caught the infection of the K otzebue-
mania, but were convinced that adultery was merely an
amiable weakness, though they had so often heard it
mentioned by English moralists as the most execrable
deviation from the path of honour, and totally subversive
of social felicity. The next dose was administered by a
very skilful female quack, who gave it the name of Lovers*
Vows, and by a happy termination demonstrated the be*
neficial consequences of seduction.
But this mental malady, did not arrive at the greatest
height till the introduction of P iza rro . The multitude
thronged to see this monster. They held up their hands,
opened their mouths, and gazed in stupid astonishment
at the superb pageant that shone before their imagina­
tion. It was such a delightful enjoyment to sit at one's
ease, and behold all the horrors, without encountering
the dangers, of a battle and a thunderstorm. There was
so much enthusiastic loyalty in the bombastic speech of
Rolla, that even the critic with difficulty traced the sen­
timents, and detected the plagiarism, in the more simple
and dignified lines of Cowper.
Those physicians of taste known by the name of Re­
viewers, had anxiously watched the progress of the K otze-
hue-mania through every stage, till it arrived at a crisis,
when they administered a variety of antidotes, some as
correctives, and others as alteratives. When the feverish
h % symptoms
148
symptoms abated, the convalescents were gradually re*
Stored, and the public taste, though yet verypoorly indeed,
will, it is to be hoped, recover from the imbecility
brought on by this mental apoplexy.
It has been recommended, in order to prevent such
fatal accidents in future, that all the productions of the
Continent shall be examined by adequate judges, previous
to their being landed, and that the vessels shall perform
quarantine.
Such was the progress of the Kotecbuc-mania, which
had a more pernicious effect on the health and morals of
the community than gin, or even the nostrums of quack­
ery. Indeed, no disease has raged with such fatal malig­
nancy in this capital since the plague in i 6$j .
Scarcely had the fury of this malady subsided, and a
general convalescence taken place, when the public sanity
was endangered by another visitation of a much more
benign nature. Music, soul-subdiiiqg music, came, upon
the wings of Favonius, from the soft clime of Italy, to
soothe the British ear. Our public singers may, in a
moment of vanity, address the audience in the language
of the syrens:
Blest is the man ordain’d our voice to hear!
T h e song instructs the soul and charms the ear.
Approach ! thy soul shall into rapture rise !
Approach! and learn new wisdom from the wise !'*
On the other hand, Mrs. Billington might, in a parody,
address her admirers, as they almost squeezed each other
to
14g >
to death, to catch the inchanting vibrations of the view­
less air as itdflowed through the mazes of her mellow
wind-pipe—
Sweet are your thund'ring footsteps to my ear,
Your placid looks my tender bosom cheer.
Approach ! for sound all com
m
onsense despise 9 ’
Approach ! and with your m
oneycharm my eyes !
As the lovers of music are persons o f extreme sensibi­
lity, their sufferings must have been very excruciating
indeed, while they sympathised with poor Mrs. B. when „
she was delivered of a needle* Various have been the
reports concerning this, singular case of surgery, and Mr*
H. declares,. that- after examining the extracted steel
through a microscope, he is not certain whether it is a
needle or a stiletto !* The lady has been a great traveller,
and iti is not improbable that some envious Italian at­
tempted to assassinate her, and left his stiletto in her
shoulder.
It is still more probable, however, that she swallowed
a needle during some moment when her mind was over­
whelmed by harmony: and in order to prevent other
ladies from a similar misfortune, the following piece of
advice has been put into verse, that they may the more
readily commit it to memory, nay, sing it if they please :
Girls oft have been caution'd ’gainst swallowing pins,
Let them list to a friend who ne'er wheedles j
And unless they are willing to smart for their sins,
Let them be still more cautious o f needles.
« 3 Among
uo
Among* the different species of coxcombs who infest
snciety; none are more contemptible and absurd than
those who loll half asleep in the boxes at the principal
theatres, and affect to gaze on the most comic incidents
with apathy, while a general burst of laughter prevails.
They also contemplate the most affecting scenes of
tragedy with the same unaltered muscles, as if it were
a mark of superior intellect to repress the feelings of the
heart.
Several eminent writers have vindicated the morality
of the stage. This, doubtless, is the reason why such a
number-of dissolute characters live in the vicinity of our
principal theatres*. Wishing to participate the instruc­
tion
* The following picture of modern profligacy, though the colour-
iog is strong, Is but too exact a resemblance o f real life.'
“ O f the increased prevalence o f immoral and vicious habits, the
public theatres exhibit a damning proof. Twenty years ago, a pro­
stitute did not dare to shew her face in the lower parts of the house ;
and if in the upper boxes, to which this description o f unfortunate
women were confined, any tumult or noise was heard, the indigna­
tion of the audience, decisively manifested, either produced-instanta­
neous quiet, or the expuUion o f the offendets. Now, alas! how dif­
ferent is the scene! the front boxes o f the theatres ire almost exclu­
sively devoted to women of the town; the lobbies swarm with them;
they occupy every part of the house, with the solitary exception of
the side boxes and the first circle $ the rooms intended for the pur­
poses o f refreshment are like the show-rooms o f a bagnio; and it is
next to impossible for a virtuous woman to walk from her box to
her carriage, without having her eyes offended, and her ears shocked,
by
1 5 1
tion of the Drama, they seem to have environed these
elegant temples of morality, ao the lame and impotent for­
merly did the Pool of Uethsaida. It is to be apprehended,
however, that no celestial visitant will descend to impart
healing virtues in a place where such demons of a de­
praved imagination as The Castle Spectre, Blue-beard, and
similar ridiculous pageants, are suffered to make night
hideous. It is full time that such wretched substitutes
for rational amusement should be rejected, especially
since Shakspeare, our English Apollo, has evidently o\er-
thrown the host of German Titans, who impiously waged
war, not only against true taste and morality, but against
Heaven itself
Whatever
by the most Indecent gestures, and the most obscene language.
And in this most profligate exhibition the young men are as bad as,
if not worse than, the women. A t a summer theatre we have seen
the performance absolutely stopped by the noise o f these male and
female prostitutes, and the front boxes rendered the scene o f actions
fit only for a brothel. When such gross violations of decency and
decorum are publicly tolerated, woeful, indeed, must be the depravity
of public manners !’*
Anti-Jacobin Reviewfor June 1800, pp. 204,205.
Does not the censurable custom of admission at half-price, as
practised at one o f the theatres, contribute ro the intrusion o f inebri­
ated rakes and prostitutes ; and would not the payment o f full price
in some measure prevent the influx of such beings, and serve as a
corrective of this nuisaoce ?
* The extravagant and impious dramas o f Kotzebue were ex­
tolled as the spirit o f poetry— the very language o f the gods! He
u 4 was
152
Whatever benefit may be received at the theatres, by
the auditory in general, certain it is that the youthful
part of the fair sex undergo a severe ordeal. When we
behold beautiful young ladies at church, adorned by the
elegant robe of modesty, and afterwards tiew the same
lovely beings in the boxes at the playhouse, sitting half
naked, as if in imitation of women of the town, we can
scarcely believe our eyes, of reconcile to reason such a
♦
glaring inconsistency, such a preposterous violation of
decorum. W hat! are the amiable daughters of Britain
to be exhibited to the intrusive gaze of the world ?
—•
forbid it propriety, decency, and virtue.
The competition of Kemble and Cooke in the arduous
character of King Richard III. has afforded the public
much gratification. Kemble, in the two first acts, seemed
was praised as a superior genius by those unprincipled translators and
publishers, who, profiting by the public curiosity, kept his dramas
in circulation like a shuttle-cock. Even the Critical Reviewers
styled this sensualist, the German Shakspearej but a more
respectable and impartial decision was given against him by the
Monthly Reviewers; and the public mind, awaking as from a de*
lirious dream, rejected his palliatives o f licentiousness.
Kotzebue has favoured his admirers with a sketch o f his life and
literary career, in which the egotism and licentiousness o f the Ger­
man Shakspeare are equally conspkiious $ and he has since written
an account of the most important year o f his life ! This earnestness
to obtain fame may be termed the sublime o f egotism $ but doubtless
many of the lovers of common sense and truth would consider the
last speech of Kotzebue as the most important of all his effusions.
deficient
153
deficient in that eagerness and cunning, which charac­
terised the dissembling ambitious usurper; but he gra­
dually became more animated, and in the scene with
Lady Anne, his flattery and affected tenderness were
much superior to the rough gallantry of Cooke.
Towards the catastrophe, the wonderful powers of
Kemble were exerted with the happiest effect. The ex­
pression of horror in his countenance, as he awoke from
a dream ; the gradual predominance o f reason over his
terrified imagination; the transition to his natural cou­
rage, and the pathos with which he exclaimed “ Richard’s
himself again !’ ’ electrified the audience. In the duel,
perhaps, he exhibited too much of the expertness and
agility.of the fencer; but his fall and expiration were so*
natural and affecting, that we for a moment forgot
Drury-lane Theatre, and the scene of Bosworth-field
was presented to the mind.
As the representative of this great character, Cooke
seems entitled to the laurel, and the public decision ap­
pears in his favour. The hypocrisy, penetration, and
imperious ambition of. the tyrant were exhibited in a
most masterly manner by this actor, whose voice, ges­
tures, and expression of countenance, domineered over
the imagination of the spectator. Nay, the emotions of
guilt struggling with remorse, were so admirably pour-
trayed in his countenance, that in one instance, when an
involuntary groan escaped his labouring bosom, the ef­
fect on the audience was so powerful as to call forth an
universal plaudit; nor could the most eloquent speech
have more forcibly conveyed the impression of guilt.
« $ In
154
In several instances indeed his manner was awkward,
yet such inelegance seemed natural to a deformed tyrant.
In his harangue to the army, we beheld the courageous
Richard at the head of his troops; and if in the duel
he displayed less grace than Kemble, it was only a proof
of his superior judgment; for who would expect the
adroitness of a swordsman in a fierce warrior, previously
fatigued, and whose sanguinary object was rather the
destruction of his opponent than self-defence ?
Indeed, boisterous and daring characters seem best
adapted to the genius of Cooke, whose Iago has seldom
been equalled. He is also a good comedian, and this
versatility renders him a great acquisition to the theatre.
On the other hand, Kemble is much superior in those
characters where grace and dignity are combined with
the softer passions. His Jaffier, H arry le R oi, Hamlet,
and Lear, are truly sublime and affecting representations;
and his resumption of the buskin, after a temporary re­
tirement, must be gratifying to the lovers of dramatic
entertainment.
To attempt a description of the celebrated powers of
Mrs. Siddons would be superfluous. Her superiority in
the most difficult and affecting characters has long been
acknowledged ; and this favourite of Melpomene, though
now in the wane of exterior grace, still continues under
the inspiring tutelage of the muse.
Mr. and Mrs. Pope, those best representatives of
Othello and Desdemona, have recently made their ap­
pearance on the Drury-lane boards. The favourable
receptioirwhich theymet with from the public, was such
as
as merit like theirs may ever expect from a British audi­
ence ; and their return to the capital is certainly a
powerful accession of strength to the tragic phalanx.
At Covent-Garden Theatre, besides the predominant
powers of Cooke, Mrs. Litchfield rapidly improves ip
some of the most difficult characters in tragedy. Her
Lady Anne and Lady Macbeth were a just display of
graceful action, and the natural expression of strong pas­
sions. Miss Chapman is also an engaging votary of
Melpomene.
In comedy, Lewis is pre-eminent. Cynical indeed
must be that disposition, torpid that heart, and rigid
those muscles, which his spirited and ludicrous delinea­
tions of character would not soften to mirth. Animated,
graceful, and inspired with the true glee of the comip
muse, this favourite actor engages our esteem, while he
gratifies the fancy.
Mrs. Billington has, under the cheering influence of
Clio, engaged to serve two masters. The public ear has
been delighted with her symphonious warblings; con­
noisseurs are inchanted; and even persons whose auri­
cular organs are not so finely organised, have confessed
that her voice is
“ Sweet as the shepherd's pipe upon the mountain.”
We must regret the frequent indisposition of the prin­
cipal performers at both theatres. A species of epidem ic
influenza seems to prevail among the §ons and daughter^
of Thespis > insomuch, that it would be worthy of the
h 6 national
156
national munificence to raise a subscription for the pur­
pose of erecting an hospital for their reception.
Here our advertising physicians might exert their mi­
raculous skill. In case of hoarseness, or any other de­
rangement in the vocal organs, Brodum might gargle
the throat of the patient with his wonder-working Bota­
nical Syrup; or should that fail of success, Solomon's
Cordial Balm o f Gilead would doubtless restore the voice
to its wonted melody. It might be advisable, however,
to caution the patient against swallowing any o those
specifics, lest the public should be deprived of a favourite
actor or actress!
Should any of the dancers make a false step, that
friendly surgeon, Perkins, might, by the application of
his Tractors, instantly cure a contusion or sprain ; and, in
consequence o f the muscles being restored to their usual
vigour and elasticity, the dancer might trip away “ on
the light fantastic toe/’ to the great delight of the audi­
ence. Had this admirable surgeon been consulted in
Mrs. Billington-’s singular case, he might, by a single
touch of his magical tractors, have compelled the netdh
to issue from her shoulder; and this incident might have
been described by a poet, as similar to the miraculous
extraction of the dart from the wound of JEneas described
by Virgil.
For the tetter preservation of the health and spirits of
the dramatic corps, it would be very proper to furnish
a medicme-ckest at each theatre, with a quantity o f the
Nervous Cordial, the Balm of Gilead, Oxygen Gas, De
Vclno’s Syrup, Godbold’s Vegetable Balsam; and, above
all,
157
all, at least a dozen sets of the Metallic Tractors.
These American skewers would be very efficacious in
healing the wounded after a battle in a tragedy; and by
a resuscitation o f Othello, and other suicides, prevent
the necessity of the bodies being buried in the highway*,
according to the statute.
LITERART
t
158
LITERARY QUACKERY.
Books are not seldom talismans and spells.
By which the magic art o f shrewder wits
Holds an unthinking multitude enthrall'd.
Some to the fascination o f a name
Surrender judgment, hood-wink’d. Some the style
Infatuates, and through labyrinths and wilds
O f error leads them by a tune entranc’d.
CoWPER.
L iT E R A T U R E , that celestial handmaid of Know­
ledge, under the guidance of Truth, unites the inge­
nious, the good, and the virtuous, in one mystic chain of
confraternity. How often has the intelligent and stu­
dious mind been enlightened and invigorated, by the
beautiful descriptions and elevated conceptions of genius!
How often have tears of sympathy, or the generous
glow of joy, been excited by a pathetic and lively por­
traiture of the vicissitudes of human life ? and while the
eye drank instruction, the heart was meliorated, and the
understanding enlarged.
But even literature has been productive of evil as well
as good. The excursions of a playful imagination natu­
rally deviate into the forbidden regions of licentiousness,
and the shafts of Ridicule, pointed by W it, have been
but too often aimed at the bosom of Virtue, while brazen­
faced
159
faced Impiety concealed her deformity in the broad laogh
of humour. Those volumes, sacred to science, which
either enlarge the sphere of intellectual vision, or inno-
cently amuse the reader, are, with deference, resigned to
the vigilant observance of our monthly Literary Censors;
and our enquiries shall be directed to the investigation of
only such publications as are absurd or pernicious.
BOOK-MAKERS.
The multiplication o f middling authors, who merely compile,
and re* publish the sentiments of preceding writers, it an evil which
threatens the existence of the republic of letters.
Monthly Reviewfo r January 180C.
A m o n g those impostors who have obtruded themselves
on society, Boek-m akcrs arc particularly censurable, and
may justly be considered injurious to the progress of
knowledge, as Quacks arc to the art of healing.
The first and most pernicious class of these “ half-
formed witlings,” comprehends writers of their own ad­
ventures. Modem voluptuaries of both sexes, when they
have by excess incapacitated themselves for pursuing
their pleasures, u fight all their battles o’er again,” by
describing their amours, which they publish, to contri­
bute as much as possible to the amusement and vitiation
of others, for a pecuniary consideration. Were such
depraved mortals to publish their memoirs as a demon­
stration of the fatal effects of vice, they might be consi­
dered
IffO
cftred' as doing an act of justice in favour of public
morals— similar to the dying declaration of criminals at
the place of execution. But they not only endeavour to
palliate their enormities, under the soft epithet of error,
but in some instances they are abandoned enough to re-
commend similar practices ; while an unprincipled pub­
lisher, for the sake of gain, circulates the.mental cantha-
rides which empoisons thousands !
It certainly requires an uncommon degree of effrontery
in book-makers and their publishers, to enable them to
vend obscene productions in a country where laws are
established for the suppression of such abortions of intel­
lect. W e are informed, that “ An information was ex­
hibited by the Attorney-General against the defendant
E d m u n d C u r l l * , for that he, contriving and intending
to injure the morals of the people o f this realm, printed
and published a certain wicked and obscene book, en­
titled Venus in the Cloister, or the Nun in her Smock”
Curll was found guilty, and was afterwards set in the
pillory, as he well deserved f .
Austere moralists may censure a certain publisher, who>
vends a Quack Doctors pamphlets and nostrums; but
* 41 Edmund Curll, a bookseller and book-makert rendered noto­
rious by Mr. Pope in his Dunclad. He was generally held to be
an immoral character, and was highly injurious to the literary world
by his piracies andforgeries. He lost bis ears by a sentence of the
law for publishing ** The Nun in her Smock,” and another paltry per­
formance, and died in 174 8 .**— Jones's Biographical Dictionary.
f Vide.Strange’s Reports, p. 788, M. Term, 1 Geo, II. 1728.
acalm
161
a calm investigation of the matter will evince that he is
only Mlabouring at his vocation.” By a singular coincid­
ence of circumstances, this devout tradesman contributes
at once to the sanity and instruction of society :— he is
apreacher of the gospel/ But he may justify this seeming
enormity of his endeavours to serve G od and Mammon,
by exclaiming with Falstaff, “ It is no sin for a man to
labour at bis vocation /”
The most edrious as well as ridiculous species of
book-making was u Tales of Wonder” compiled by
Mr. L. and sold at the moderate price o f a guinea 1 In­
deed the abilities of this spectre-loving senator were em­
ployed to some purpose in collecting ballads from the
dead walls of this metropolis!
Next to these caterers for the public taste maybe roea*
tioned our modern historians.—
<
*Some write a narrative of wars, and feats
O f heroes, little known } and call the rant
A history.**
The book-maker collects the volumes of writers of ac­
knowledged merit, and, by the aid of a few transcribers,
he so completely transubstantiates the original, that the
author himself would be puzzled to recognise any re­
semblance. Hence, by intermingling their own vague
conceptions with the sublime ideas of genius, book­
makers produce a dull monster. Such are G/s Greece ;
II/s History of Scotland; and a variety of heterogeneous
compilations..
Many
Many o f our of book-makers are Frenchmen and Ger^
mans, who good-naturedly endeavour to illuminate our
minds, by communicating their ideas in English. In­
deed the pedantic and foppish innovations attempted
by these conceitedforeigners^ and even English translators
destitute of genius, would, by the introduction of barba­
risms, soon render our copious and elegant language
mere gibberish, were they not deterred by the spirited
and judicious criticism of Reviewers.
Several scheme:* have been adopted by modern book­
makers to obtain popularity. Some u forager on other’s
wisdom,” excites attention by detecting the plagiarism of
an eminent writer. Such is Dr. Ferriar, whose “ Illus­
trations of Sterne’’ may be said to have rendered the
author “ dark with excessive bright.” The doctor, how­
ever, may claim the merit of having discovered a new
method of embalming, for, by interspersing some of the
fragrant spices of Sterne’s wit with his own crude ideas,
he has preserved the inert mass.
When a plain country-gentleman reads the puffing ad­
vertisement of a book-maker, he is ready to conclude that
such an assuming writer must be a man of superlative
genius ; but bow great must be his disappointment and
indignation on purchasing the ne<w book, to find that it
is only a mutilation of the works of our best authors,
which have for years adorned the shelves of his library.
He surveys the compilation *with as much regret as a
traveller beholds a mean cottage built of the magnificent
ruins of Palmyra.
But the most curious species of book-makers, are
those
103
th&se anonymous scribblers who present the public with
the biography of their contemporaries. This is, indeed,
a new way of conferring fame ; however, while the un­
known panegyrist is, like a tutelary genius, ennobling
those mushroom-like ephemera, they sink from public
observation, overwhelmed by the gloom of their own in­
significance*
t( Those twinkling tiny lustres o f the land
Drop one by one from Fame's neglecting hand ;
Lethean gulfs receive them as they fall, .
And daik oblivion soon absobs them all.**
The trite remark, that every field of enquiry is ex­
hausted by former writers, is erroneous ; for both nature
and art present an infinite variety to the active mind.
Selfish publishers, however, endeavour to depreciate living
merit, because the productions of deceased authors are
attainable at less expcnce. At the same time we should
distinguish between those temporary compilations, hastily
Written, and published for emolument, and other elabo­
rate and scientific works, in which human knowledge is
collected, like a constellation, to illumine the paths of the
fludent.
An Encyclopedia may be denominated the luminary of
science; while our monthly publications constitute the
galaxy of intelligence : the former is like a capacious re­
servoir ; the latter resemble streams incessantly flowing,
and cherishing the mind of the reader. On the other
hand, the paltry productions of book-makers may, with
propriety,
propriety, be considered as the meteors of literature$
which gleam
u Lawless through the void,
Destroying others, by themselves destroyed.*’
The generosity of the public has too long been insulted
by the artifice of plodding compilers; but the event
must be propitious to original genius. The dull same*
ftess of compilation will effect its own destruction, as
stagnant pools become fetid, and are abandoned for the
pure and salubrious streams of the originalfountain. '
Many ingenious devices have been invented by man to.
engage the attention of his fellow-creatures; and it is not
improbable that some compiler, who, like.a concave mir­
ror, collects the diverging rays o f science, may favour us
with the history of the world in a single pocket volume,
as the Iliad was formerly comprised in a nut-shell. What
can any rational man expect from such disjointed pro­
ductions, but a rhapsodical collection of ideas, instead of
real knowledge ?
Some book-makers assert the equality of the sexes, in
order to obtain the patronage of the-ladies, and their au­
xiliary coxcombs. The virtuous part of the fair sex,
however, which happily constitutes a great majority,
aspires to no such fanciful^distinction; but are meek, ami­
able, and the brightest ornaments of the social edifice*.
INDEX.
I N D E X .
ADDISON, his excellent precepts respecting health, 61*
**■ Affectation, censured, 91.
Alfred the Great, his piety and munificence, 76.
Ambitious lady, 116. '
Anecdote of a Quack Doctor almost poisoned by his owa
nostrum, 29.— Of a Quacksalver and a Widow, 55.
Armstrong, Dr. his Art of Preserving Health, 60.
Aurum potabile, virtues of, 7.
Bentley, Professor, of King’s College, Aberdeen, letter
from, 14.
Billington, Mrs the power of her voice, 1.35— Undergoes a
surgical operation, ibid.
Book-makers, ridiculed, 159.
Brodum, Dr. biographical anecdotes of, 13— Obtains a di­
ploma from the M. Coll. Aberdeen, 14— Marries Dr. F/e
widow, ibid•
— Becomes resident physician in London, 15
— Dedicates his book to the King, 17— Neglects the pre­
cept of Horace, 18— A patron of genius, ibid. Quota­
tions from his pamphlet, 20- Proposal to erect a statue
of him, 21— Remarkable for the strength of his sight, aa
—Would be a soldier, as— Beneficial effects of his medi­
cines, a4— Error in his advertisement, 49.
Beddoes, Dr. his panacea restores youth, 8a— A most ex*
cellent cosmetic, 83— Incites mirth, 84.
Buzaglo superior to Mr. Perkins, 43.
Christian Religion, excellence of, 77.
Characteristics and anecdotes of distinguished persons m
the fashionable world, namely, the Noble Coachman, 11a
— The Philosophic Coxcomb, 114— The Female Masque­
rader, 115— The Ambitious Lady, 116— The Pink of
Nobility, 117— The Magnanimous Chevalier, 118
Coachman, noble, 112— Dreadful accident which befel him,
113—Advised to learn the art of driving on Wimbledon
Common, ibid-
College of Physicians, when instituted, 6— Privileges of, 7.
Colquhoun, Mr. his statement erroneous, 85— His ideas
of a central police exploded, 87.
Corfield, Nurse, a famous physician, 9.
Darwin, Dr. food discovered by him, 81.
De
INDEX.
De Genlis, Madame, quotation from, 74.
Diseases in London principally ideal, 63.
Disinterestedness of Quacks, 54.
j Drama, the sublime and beautiful of, what, 143— Short his­
tory of the English drama, 146.
Empirical homicide, 57.
Iipigram on Quackery, 70— On needles, 136.
Pashionable phrases, adopted by the vulgar, n o .
Graham, Dr. superior to modern Quacks, 41.
Hippocrates, his advice, 67.
Hoffman, quotation from, 61.
Jefferies, Anne, instructed in the art of healing by fairies, 10
— Her disinterestedness, ibid..
Jews too cunning to give their money for nostrums, 31.
Immorality, source of, 86.
John Bull, averse to a change of diet, 135— His observations
on State Quacks, 136.
Kant, his speech in the Temple of Philosophy, 127—
Strange metamorphosis of, 134*
, Kemble and Cooke, parallel between, ija .
Kotzebue, described, 129—His address to philosophy, ibid.
— Transformed into a goat, 134.
Kotzebue-mania, an epidemic disease, 149.
Ladies, wage war like the ancient Gauls, 104—Some of
them wear a coat of mail, 105— Invaluable, 108.
I.atesse, Mr- superior to Dr. Senate, 43.
London, its superiority, 87— The seat of knowledge, 89—
A sketch of the manners of its inhabitants, 90 to n a —
Love of gain their predominant passion, ibid— Affecta­
tion, 9a— Love of variety, 93— Profusion, ibid.— Regula­
rity, 94— Caricatures, ibid-— Propensity to censure, 96.
Medicine, sketch of the history of, 4 to 13.
Menial servility, 107-
Merchants and tradesmen described, 100 to 103.
Messmer, his imposture more ingenious than that of Per­
kins, 11— Detected at Paris, la.
Modem fine gentleman described, 97— Not so effeminate as
formerly, 103.
Mountebank described, ra-
Paine, metamorphosis of, 134.
Paintings, animated, 8a.
Pantomime introduced by Woodward, 144— Absurdity of,
ibid.
Peace,
INDEX.
Peace, description of the rejoicings in London on the news
of, 138.
Perkins, Mr. his Metallic Tractors, 33— Panegyric on his
philanthropy, 34— Monthly Reviewers censure him, 35—
Fanatical clergymen who patronise the metallic practice,
37—Application of the tractors to female philosophers,
recommended, 38
Philanthrophy of a Patent Medicine Vender, 56.
Philosophers, opinion of, respecting the sun, 83.
Philosophic coxcomb, 114.
Philosophers, female, described, 131— Honour conferred
on, 13a— Transformed into parrots, 134-
Philosophy, modern, Temple of, described, iz j.— D estroy­
ed, 134.
Quackery, domestic, pernicious, 57.
Razors, hunting, 84.
Religion, deBcripiion^of* 133— Destroys the Temple of mo»
dern Philosophy, 134-
Rumford, Count, 81.
Senator, transformed into a monkey, 134-
Senate, Dr. his solemn declaration, 32— Wonderful effect
of steel in his hands, ibid.— Peace inauspicious to his
success, 33. *
Solemon, Dr. a Jew, 24— His pamphlet approved, and by
whom, ibid.— Candour manifested in his advertisement,
25— Conjectures respecting his Balm, 26— His Anti-Im*
petigines, 27— His elegance as a writer illustrated, 28— His
nostrums puffed in the newspapers, 29— May be taken
notice of by the Attorney-General, ibid.
Stage, strictures on, 145.
'Theatric entertainment, new species of, 50.
Tradesmen, philosophic, their disinterestedness, 73.
Unanimity and brotherly love recommended, 126.
War, just and necessary, 134.
Wilkinson, Mr. his incredulity, 44— Administers nostrums
to different patients, 45— 48.
World of fashion described, 97.
Young people, address to, 68
Published
\
\
*
*
*
i
«
i
. /
/
i
V
\
/
/
4
I
«
I
