{"name":"Metamorphosis Of Sona","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1810__dudley___metamorphosis_of_sona.pdf","mytitle":"Metamorphosis Of Sona","mylang":"de"}
THE
METAMORPHOSIS OF SONA;
A HINDU TALE:
WITH
A GLOSSARY,
DESCRIPTIVE OF TilE
MYTHOLOGY OF THE SASTRAS.
BY JOHN pUDLEY,
VICAR OF SILEBY IN LEICESTERSHIRE.
The Divine Spirit alone is the whole assemblage ofgods.
Mr.Nu, CHAP. 111. Vr.a. 119.
LONDON:
PRINTBD FOR BLACK, PARRY, AND KINGSBURY,
BOOUELLIUIJ TO THE HONOURABLE &AIT-INDIA COMPAIIY,
I
v
L.&ADE.NHALL-BTRE.E't.;.. ; ! •, • : •., ,.• ,......, :•
"., !
. ; :.~.... ·.:~.... ..... .. : - ~: ~
'IBr ft. JPamiiton, mefbtt~!f. • ••• • • :
-
lS\0. _
··<:.:.. ·.
THE NEW YORK
PUBUC LlSRARY
AAf.fiJ~A.
'nt.DEN FOUNI)ATleNI
" 1937 1.
.. : : :·. . :.·:
... ".... . ..
Iii£.••: ...:·... •
....-·:.· :.
...... .
' ... .. .
.. ... ....
PREFACE.
TuE Author of this work was induced to relate in
verse, the following legendary tale from the Yayera
P urlma, at the suggestion of an ingenious and much
esteemed friend; who, intending to write upon a sub-
ject connected with Hindltst'kfm, imagined such a
poem might be properly introduced into it. The
verses were not, however, expected to exceed the
number of two or three hundred lines ; nor
were they, by any means, intended to enter very
deeply into the doctrines of the Hindu religion, or
into a very accurate description or illustration of
Hindu manners. As, however, the work advanced,
the contemplation of those subjects continued to af.
ford increasing pleasure, and to excite fresh interest ;
and it was determined to introduce such ornaments,
A.<l
IV PREFACE.
as might serve, m some measure, to illustrate and
explain the manners and opinions of the Hindits, and
finish the pictures which the curious legend offered
to the imagination. In consequence of this resolu-
tion, the poem was extended to the present length,
and thus far exceeded the purpose for which it was
originally designed.
When it was finished, the necessity of notes and
illustrations became immediately apparent. Without
such .assistances, the allusions to Indian opinions, and
tbe description of Indian manners, mmrt have been
tJUite unintelligible.to ~st every one of the author's
friends, to whom alone it was intended to be shown.
Such notes and illustratioos were accordingly under-
~en,. as might serve th~ purpose of agreeably com-
muniating whatever iafom1atioo the subject might
absolutely require. But, in composing this prose
appendage, the subjects necessarily examined, were
still found highly interesting, and matter constantly
occurred which solicited for insertion, and when in-
serted, this part of the work, like the poem to which.
1'ltEPACK. v
it belonged, was increased fur beyond its inrended
siZe. Almost every note became a dissertation,· con-
taining~ not the doctrines and principles of the Sfu....
tra alone, but many of those ·of heathenism in gene;.
raJ, whether of ancient or modem times. ··The vW;:.
ous ideas that occtJITed du~g this kind of invei!tiga-
tion, afforded the mOst pleasifig amusement ; and the
author, thinking he had found a clue which might
guide him with certainty and·safety, ventured to en-
ter the labyrinths of ancient mythologies, ·although
dooot had been artfully placed there to perplex re-
·.earch;and to·render oriintelligible to profane minds,
tboie meaning allegories which the ancient mysta-
.goguespublishedonlyas enigfiias, except to such per-
.sons 88 .had undergone the ~evere probatibns imposed
on··me aspirinit, preparatory to the communieation of
tlie mysterious secret;·whether given in the deep re-
ceiJses ofthe woods and rocks' ofDruidism, or in the
·caves and·cells of Mithra or Eleusis. After having
eiltered theae TeceslleS, and sported in them awhile,
pleaaed wilhtheconviction, thattbeywill affordabund-
VI PREtACB.
ant space for any future range which curiosity may
urge, or the business of collecting useful information
impose; the author returned to the more humble task
of writing notes to his poem, chiefiy from his disser- .
tations already written; and they were accordingly
fini1.1hed in the present form, in which the learned
reader will perhaps see that they approach to the
thresholds of some of the most important investiga-
tions ever made by the antiquary, the philosopher, or
the divine. ·r
Before these notes were finished, or indeed almost
before they began to wear their present form, some
thoughts wereentertained of their publicationwith the
· poem, and theywere accordingly offered to the press;
certainly, not from that vain hope of applause,
which a young author is apt very foolishly to enter-
.tain, when he finds he has written enough to make
up something like a book; butfrom a persuasion, that
the poem and the notes together were calculated to
convey a good deal of information respecting the
HindUs, which our countrymen do not, but yet
PltEF&CE. vu
ought to know. Reigning, as they now do, the sove-
reigns in India, over fifty millions of people, who
profess such doctrines as these, stated .in this poem
and notes; and are zealously bold, moreover, to
maintain not only at the hazard, but with the sacri-
fice oftheir lives, the truths, as they believe, of le-
gends such as this, of the metamorphosis of Sona;
these doctrines and opinions become highly import-
ant; and, to acquire, at least, some slight knowledge
of them, becomes a duty imperiously-obligatory,'oot
only on the persons who may be actually employed
in the government of the Hindfu, but on those also
who, remaining at home, may only be called upon to
legislate for their distant fellow-subjects (for such the
Hindfu certainly are) either immediately, as mem-
ben of the British parliament, or mediately only,
through their representatives. Of the force of this
obligation, let us but only think, and there can be no
doubt, but we shall be soon thoroughly persuaded.
that as men and as Christians, we ought not to treat
the religious principles of such a mass of populatio11
viii PREFACE.
with indifference, or even regard them only as objects
.of idle curiosity.
To mention in the preface of a work, f;O slight as
a poem with notes, the names of the learned author
of the disquisition concerning an~ient India, or the
ingenious hiStorian of ancient and modem Hindwt'-
Mn, ·may almost seem like an unbecoming assump-
tion ofconsequence, in the author of this work. It
·is, however; but right to observ~, that the notes
here oft'ered to the public, contain some articles not
··to oo' found in the works abovementioned, and some
few stated with greater accuracy. In affirming this,
however, let it be understood, that no intention what-
.ever is entertained of impeaching the diligence of
thoae·authors, or the accuracy of their information.
Whatever advantages of this kind may be found in
lhe :Present work, .are entirely owing to the new and
impOrtant communications received from India, since
the time·when those'authors wrote. On saying this;
it becomes· the author to add, that be by no means
preteOOB tO·any superiority over .those distinguished
PREFACE. ix
writers, or even to any thing like a comparison with
them. Indeed, his work will not bear any thing ,of
the kind: it is rather a fanciful,· than a serious per~
formance, intended chiefly to amuse a leisure hour,
but yet amusing, so as to inform, and especially ;to
open the eyes of all the members of the British em.;.
pire, to the undoubted fact~ that our countrymen in
India, and particularly those who have contributed to
the publications of the Asiatic Society, have opened-a
mine far richer than those of Golconda ; a mine, .
whichwe at home ought to encourage them to explore,
by paying every kind of attention and respect to their
researches, and by affording every possible assistance
and support to their honourable labours. Should
these lines and lucubrations of a retired individual,.
contribute in the smallest degree to either ofthese, or
to any other good and useful end, the author will
place such success wholly on the side of gain, and,.
indeed, such is the only gain he much desires. Of
the work itself, he is free to say, it owes him nothing::
the amusement it has afforded in the composition,
PREFACE.
hu cheered many an hour, and 11•arded off the buf-
fets of many a trouble, and therefore, whatever may
be its fate, he will not consider the time spent in the
composition as wholly lost, even though,"hid by the
magnitude, and eclipsed by the splendour, of other
contemporary publications, it should come forth like
a bubble upon the ocean, to burst unobserved at the
wry instant of its rise, and in the very next instant
be forgotten and unknown.
XI
.A TaMe qf directiOfll for the pronunciation rif the liMA411
letters used in writing Sanscr~t wor!U, agreeably to the di-
rections qfSir William Jones. (See Jones on tlte OrthogrA-
phy qfAsiatic Wor!U. As. Res. Vol. i. No. 1.)
a is to be pronounced like a in blast.
a ••••••.•••••• a in America.
e
i
1
l
0
• • nearly like a, or like the French e.
. e in when.
•• ea in sea, or. ee in see.
• e in he.
i in merrily.
o in peiform.
o msome.
• u infull.
y is partly a consonant, as in!Jarn.
c . . . . • . . . . . . . . c in capital;
ch . . tsh, or like ch in china•
cs . . . . . • • • x.
xn
g • • like g in gun.
j ..... j in James.
r1 ..... ng m rmg.
s' . nearly like sh.
t: . with an obtuse sound resembling d.
When Ais separated from its preceding letter by
a comma affixed, as 'h, the subsequent letter or sylla-
ble must be strongly aspirated, as Hinditst'hfm.
The words of the following work printed in Italics,
are so distinguished, to shew that they ought to be
'SpOken accorcliog to tbeie rules.
. ..
ADVERTISEMENT.
THE NERBUDDA or NARMADA, and the SoANE
or SoNA, are two of the principal rivers in India,
and take their ri..<~e in the mountainouS districts of the
province ofAllalwbad, not far from the city or town
ofRuttunpur. The former river springs from a weH,
enclosed by ·a wall, near a pagoda situate on the high
table-land of a mountain, called Omercuntuc, or
more correctly Omerc'handaca, from which it pre-
cipitates itself through the district of Mundi/la into
the provinces of Malwa and Guzerat, and discharges
its waters by a north-westerly course into the gulf of
Cambay. The SoANE rises on the east side, at the
foot of the table-land of Omerc'handaca, and run-
·ning through the Purgunna of Pindara, in a north-
easterly direction, where it becomes a considerable
river, by the junction ofthe vast number of mountain-
streams, it enters the Subah of Behar, and unites iis
XVI ADVER.TISEMBNT.
nan's Journey). The word is evidently derived from
the Sanscr'Jt c'lw.nda, signifying a portion, (As. Res.
vol viii. p. 379.) and C'lw.rma chandaca is the name
of a district in the vicinity of Omerc'lw.ndaca, which
may be interpreted the district of Orner. For these
reasons, m.the following poem, the more classical
Sanscrn term of Omerc'lw.ndaca, or Omerc'handac,
omitting the last mute letter, agreeably to the prac-
tice of SirWilliam Jones, has been used. Perhaps the
former part of the word is not strictly correct, but it
has not appeared adviseable to change the form any
farther upon mere conjecture unsupported by good
authorities..
NERBUDDA;
OR,.
THE METAMORPHOSIS OF SO:SA.
HoNOUR to thee, GaneiJIJ, aapient lord-
But Deltt be thou, BAavdni, most ador'd.
Or if Nerbudda's name thou deign'st to bear,
Nerbudda's praises gladly we declare.
Proud on thy front sits majesty divine,
ADd bright thine eyes with radiant lustre shine :
A third far brighter mid thy forehead beams ; ,.
As fire it blazes-or like lightuing gleams.
Thine is the Treml sheen : thou bidst it rest,
In conquering guise, on prostrate BAyr~s breast. 10
Thy victory Partt-Brahmd's self approv'd;
And Malia Deva saw, admll·'d, and lov'd.
n
Since then the Da~ fiy tlly awful face,
And numerous ble.ings glad the human race.
'Tis thine to lead thy faithful votarY train,
Far from the realms ollKUrlsbmeot and pain ;
To nurse their virtues, and to mark the road.
That leads to b1ias, aDd lwa'• bright abode.
Hence aageet M¥nil reverence thy name,
And spell in SaMra lore thy matchless fame. .,
Learn that to thee Heaven's lura. owe their birth,
To thee.tM Dnvtaitl, demi-gode on earth.
Know tllee m.td:het Ocaa's aelf aUiecl;
Know thee of sr~ryo.·, race the tHat and ~ f
Thee, &btl, child of HimtU. they koolr,
That king of mouataios and eternal snow*.
Mid Brahm4'1 reebns where mountains towel'sublime
And stretch their ridge down Dtcan'• southern w._.
Staads 0~~ ..ut., in proud array;
His summit crown'd by pure blue fiaJda of day. .,
• The principal part or this address to Nerb11dda is taken
from an extraA!t t'nlM Yt~~m~PW4M, ltllleived from thePc•
tlitl in tl.e neisflbourhood of Omerc'~a, by Capt. Bluat,
of which he has inserted a translatioa in the account of hia
joumey.-As.&,. 'Vol. vii. NQ a.
Not such h• fol'IQ. u vulgar mouutaills own;
Worn to a r4Jge, or tritter'd to a eone,
But massife at all pointe "M moeOI the eye,
And lifts a plain ~ IWII the upper aky.
His jutting breast, a bull'fark bold and bare,
Firm bides the atorms that furious J(We mair ;
Hillower sides, by step-like tteepl11pbome,
Jlich emerald groftl with l'lll'illd tints lllorn.
There the TiJntdla • epreade hit leaf 9fgJoc.;
3
And fresh the -clove-plant 1enda·1he p11t,_,.. .40
The graceful palmi their plw:ily a......-...._,
And flmyering cWmben weave their ~ Wr;
Through eire~ ehadea the cocif• aotea l'eiOUild.
And, blossom-fed, luun honeying awarma al'OUJld.
Such towers the o.m!iaflllac; sacred blight l
For many an age &rbuddc'• fond delight:
Not more OOMW lltdra golden MenHeve,
Or Cltrr•lma rmal GflcerdJren approve.
Here her VerfAJMlak sooth'd the ~~C<WCiaing day;
Here bow'daer ])ewMhala'ftll m ioDI army J AO
"' A species oithe &aurua er laurel.
B2
•BiBt7DD4;
Here she, high aeated on her diamond throne,
Daughter ofgods, in heavenly glory shone ;
Look'd down on realms below·with gracious eye,
~pensing peace and plenty, wealth and joy :
Hence wide as ocean sprad Nerbudda'1 fame,
And countleu nationslov'd, ador'd her name.
Where smile thevales 'neath Piradllra'& heights secw
Or wind the mazes of Sohaugepur;
And widening still, and still extending far,
Become the fertile plains of fair Baluir,
The hea-.en-bom S6na dwelt; and held his place,
Among the noblest of bright C/rQ11dra'• race.
He lov'd, kind sprite, to cheer the labouring swain,
And feed the progress of the growing grain :
He lov'd beneath the rtU11'1 pillar'd ebade
Shelter'd to sit, and lend the herdsmen aid;
And when the brigbt-beam'd god aent alant his ray,
ADd gentlest breezes fa.Dn'd the cloeing day,
From the green eminence he lov'd to view
Fair nature fnwbening with the falling dew; ~
Then would he tune his pipe, and charm the l'8le
W"rtb strains melodious floating on the gale.
A HINDU Tkl.ll.
Cre&tion bears, and owna the luJlin& sound; .
Sooth'd the gaunt wolf forgets his nightly J"Qund;
His feast of blood the prowliDg pvd foregoes ;
The hamleta rest aecure, and won to sleep repose. ..
Such SMI4 was, and thus the ewain& be bleat;
ADd rustic rites their gratitude expreiiS'd.
Nor did be proud their offerings disda,in:
They more endear'd his rural fair domain ; 80
Enbanc'd the beauty of the shady dell;
The mountain's group,-the green bill's ~imple swell;
The rock from crystal lake reflected true;
And groves and meads veil'd soft in distance blue.
But chief the 0711e1'C'handtJc, massive high!
His deep deDs ehadowing, Wins his fondest eye.
Whether it gleams with Srlrga's clearest ray,
Or o'er its sides the fleecy Vapours play;
Or when its top the gathering YBTBha shrouds
In one wild world of deep mysteriOUII clouds; 90
The partial Deva loves the object fair,
And deems those beauties grand beyond eompere.
But now great Coma, he whose magic sway
All heaven's high deities by turns obey,
•
6 1Rl:ltiDDAj
Relolv'd the~ ~the vale llbaald JII'O''e
The soft-the keen auietis oflo¥e.
Quick frclm hit bee-alrw:g bow an a.n'Gtr flew,
Ita point an tltiiN* freeh with IDIII'Diag deW.
Right true it sped, and, with unalter'd tbree,
Beach'd all-creatift Fancy'• aecret IOQJ'()e. 100
At ftrst, 110ft thrilliDg, t:hlvogb the Defltl.'• frame,
With warmth "ftll plealiDg epread the am'rou.s fta.1lle;-
Wak'd errery aen&e, and t.de each thought employ
lt. busy,.,.... ia painting prumil'djoy.
Thua fed, thus tmn'd the pst, and atroager grown,
He g1owl wit.ll hopei and &an till DOW unkDowft ;
Hopes, that the lllilt.reei ofyon high abode
May crown with npturous blill a ilithfal GOO;
P'ean, lett alit meet his truth with hatlghty 100m,
ADd bid a God edit a .wretch ildora. 110
Ar. ere the ~ lltmml oblewel the sky,
aa.ladrtll...tbttiDIIdiiWift gatberiag fly,
• The.......Mpobalaaua o{ u.a-..
" Tbe heart-bam god who clelightl in givi08 pain, as
t.d in his bow-ttrintanew lhaft, pointed with the bl0111110
cian o--." SfW/rllill4, Aet IV. Scene U•
A .,• .DV W.LB.
AdiDitting DOW bDPt B.,.,..,dlrtiPg ftiJ.
Now veiliDg dal'k ill gloom tbe moumiDg day;
Thai o'er the DiN'• ailldlltenllte reip
Hope. brigbi witAjoJ...... dattl-rob'd ia paiD.
Tkul both their~ pow.- .-en. by tunas J
lloth W tbe h that, IWI...evmiag, bilrDS.
The Dftla DOW DO IDlft with eye aenDe
1
Sur'N,p the II 1 ties ~biB faftaurite ac:ene. liO
What though. witJl atecll'llt gaze, bia • be bent
On Omere',..,_, eeemiaslll iQteot~
Yet 8elllle ia ahut.-By thought __.b'cleotire
He m«Jitates, aod fima Cdnd4rpc'1 are,
Marks ev'ry iDeideDt with toodett ~..
That OWDI a n£erepce to hil imeg'cl6Ur,
ADd dweUI elll'iptlir'cl Oil -=Ia .
act ol fame
1bat gilda witk ho.-- Juv'• Nrilldda'a oame.-
'llle llu.tta' ~oft. ia IDIIRJ a llowa'.-
WithCWcadwlftpreed,,..W.'clwpMWer. 1..,
I..ihatJoDs pour'd, and oJI'riogl freqoeot made,
Alldprayer deluat. her deeds beoiga .,.,.d.
Oft too the rich piOOfiiBion's f'estive throng,
'l'be ipOitive dace-the IDJBtic Jlmttr4 IOIISa
II'&UUDDA;
Wide to the wondering earth ber glories toJd,
And bade e'en SfDtT'ga'• gods her worth behold.
The!e rites indiffereat had the De-ca seen,
Or owa'd unino.'d the merib ofthe queea:
But cool iadifti!renee Loft permib no more ;
Thae rites they JOllie hiJa DOW t' admire-adore ; 140
N~budda t!Hming fbnd ablasi.Dg atar,
Through beaven'ahighDI8Diioosbeamingbrightaudt.r.
But ah her beantiea !-through each throbbing vein,
In mix'd diaorder, trembling tumults reign.
The sobbing aigh high heaves bia mighty breastJ
Quick throba his heart with raging flames distrest.
Great Mara worb-ro- pi<.1.uring 6ulcy warm
Blends in N~6tuldtl splendour, grace, and bm;
Givea to the garland* crown ita bl'llided place,
And apreada tbe muaky patcllea Oil her face; 150
Bids them 'mong RDilea. live on each dimpling cheek,
While o'er her £orebead reipl the goMen teic;
Hangs on «*h ear, to dance in gay delight,
The Condal gemm'd with lrtdra'1 flashing light;
• "Yadtwa decked her braided hair and neck with fmb
.grlands." Gilagorirulu.
A RIWDI1 'l'A.LB.
Sheds the black dust* that brightens OD her e'Jfl'•
And o'er her temples leadl the ndiant dyes;
Forms her with neck ofantelope, &wn-ey'd,
Teeth that the ch•ndat bloesoms fair deride j
Shapes like rich pomegranates her boeom'siiWell,
9
Bids thin in sport her sapphire necklace dwell.- 160
~graceful wave tile lotos': stalk her aJ'IDI!
Strive not, vain bncelet, to improve their cbarme.
Fair lotos' flowers, her taper fingers glow,
Ting'd bright by Lae8hll, like each sleDder toe.
• " Madiava embellished her eyes with additional black.
n~, and dyed her temples with radiant hues." Gitagovintla.
These are probably the ~~ of sects, drawn. in different
coloured lines upon the forehead and temples. The former
refers to tlle preparation ofantimony, with which the Aaiatic
women tinge the inside of their eye-lids, to improve the bril-
liancy oftheir eyes.
t "The chunda blossom yjelds to thy teeth." Gitagov.
· t " MatlAava binds on her arms, graceful as the stalks of
the water-lily, adorned with banda glowing like thepetals'of
its flowers, a bracelet ofsapphias." Gitagov.
" Another wood-nymph pressed thejuice ofLaCIM, to dye
her feet exquisitely red." Saco7tlola, Act IV. Scene I.
10 ........;
Gay roud the . . her .... tile.,... ,....;
Andringa~----.-..
Her wailt-beUa - witlt t.iDk1iDtJllliltJl tiD-.
And call tbe.,....,ecrt=ie ofloR:
While powder'd ..... wood* ....- -......
O'er her 10ft limhl tbeir ~ fr1lpaace ....._ 170
The fair idea tlwl llilf'IIDcy fills :
Such ttm.gh hiiiDUI NerbtltJdA'• aa.p thrills.
Like oil it feeda tileIOUl~ ...
lAke beat ••, "die feftrt ofcialiN.
Tbee, haplaa &ma, droopiDg Uld fildom,
The wonted garlands I10W no JDOR adom.
s.d IOJ'IVW hld.. the mooa-bmms of t.bJ 6ce~
Thy form negtect _, wret.ehednes di&gTace.
Jn vain thy slavt~ the sao.dal-wood: pn!pll'e,
11lcM cleem'at it poiiOD ia tlty wild detfair: 180
• " Potrdered IIDIIal-~ usprinkled 011 mrlimlls." Ibid.
t "~ eougbahim lllug in nin: hsdaoiiJhtawere celll-
founded by the fever or ~." Git4J111". " The fever g£
Jove." Ibid.
l"ICJIO"ddror~~&ndal-wood, finelylevigUed, bemoiltened
A IIJWDU 'I'AI.E.
The eveaing CG8I eat W8Mt the ~DC~Btain gaa,
Seems but to pow~ tlllodgh the l'81811.
Thy tbrobb~ bNMt, it helmt with ClOnlltant sigh!!,
And wiugs almae lethiuiag aa it llies.
0'er evety limb e:deD.ds the fatal flame
That er!lt i!ODIM81'4 .......dm'pll'• heavealyfnme.
His prey as.~trike~ the pil'd* wieh darted paw.
While Ydma, de8itla'a grim genlua, 111181 hie jnr:
Thus, 80116, love with eD&et quick -n.
11
Thy fainting JIO'ftlW, 1111111 e·~ tby·powen Jlft'V'&ila, 190
Rends thy atroag am.gth, aad auebwithout control,
In savage joy, tDy energies ofMJUI.
Ye lovely valel.....oace !Waf.'• blellt ~h~Jje,
Mourn.-. iostlmJur ofJI'U1" guardian sod·
No mare his 'MII-tu'd pipe with mirthlulamd
Pours, at cool etoe, ~ j01 or~ around,
and applied to ihe lweasts, abe stlrtl aDd mistakes it for poi-
son. Her sigba i>rm a breele lbng .Xtended, ant! bmn !ike
the flame which~ C.ol .,. to Mh&" Gi...u....
• .. Love is d!e uger who wprinslon her like ydiN, the
senius ofdeath... ' Ci*lrgo~.
li NBaBVDDA;
But sad betrajl, in mariy a broken strain,
His frantic pueiOn and bia stinging pain.
Mourn too, ye sickening plants, once &mo.'• care,
And learn your patron's keenest pangs to share: 200
Fresh health to you no more his power supplies,
The blossom droops and fades, aod fruit.Jels diee.
And you, 0 herds, in lowing moaDS express,
Since SOffll. guards you not, your sad distress.
Forth from thejwtgle now, in murderous mood,
The tiger springs, and dyes his step with blood.
Wide roams the wolf; and now with bold essay
E'en howling 1hakals seize the living prey.
Oft too your steps distUrb the fataliiDake
Stretch'd in the grass, or coil'd up in the brake. 210
While va'd, your waning tribes, by furious storms,
MUJTains assail, or 1eaDness fuu1 deforms.
Nor stays fair hope, with promis'd bliss to cheer
Tbe woes you suffer, or the woes you fear:
For vainly strive the Deoo'1slaves to move
NnlnuJIII&'1 breaet with tales ofok'd love;
In vain permiseion, for their lordthey crave,
To meet her face, and call bimselfher slave.
A HINDU TALE. 13
More bard than thunder-stone*, she stem deqies
Her imag'd beauties to his loDging eyes. WO
Wrapp'd in her pride, abe treads her IDOUDtain-pla!.n;
And the fi1'e-arrow'd gud is held in high disdain.
Meantime, admiring gods the Dt?t!a see
Assume the duties of the strict Yogi!
His home he quits, and seeks a station lone,
Dellp sunk in woods, to human feet unknown.
A pippal staffdirects his steps unshod,
A gourd pours water fur the fa.mish'd god.
Rude from his bead, the hair uncomb'd descends,
. And but the Zenadr from his neck depends. ~0
A belt of mu11j ODe scanty vestment ties,
That asks afHiction from th,e mildest skies.
Thus unattir'd, he meets with steady gaze
The utmost force of Surya'aburning blaze ;
He aids that furce by four surrounding fires,
Nor scorch'd, a statue,.from their heat retires.
When too the louring year loud thundering pours,
From bursting clouds, the torrellt-rushing showers,
• " If tb<N re£use it, thy heart must be harder than thun.
der-stone." Gitagovinda.
--
He, froUl their fury while all~ fty,
.\]one, unshelter'd, waits the drenching eky; 240
lmbihei the fJpod at every beat~hnmk pore,
Till swolu. the shape proclaiml his suleringiiOl'e._.
He next, as -.ons tllauge, with patieDce buld,
New pain solicits from contrasting cold.
Seeks where tlullJ!IIPh*, slow dripping, long mayshed
Ingenious misery on hi» patient head.
Meanwhile, from.fup.-tb his lips no accept. come,
Save, in low tonee, the dread.IIJIDbolic O.lfl!
No task occurs, the tedious hours te ~~bare,
Save due ablutions aod the rites ofprayer ; la50
No change, b~t wheo the chanflaydaa tries
His ant-like form witJl ~ eeverities.
No soothing respite wearied .ture knawa.
Save when the Bight caapel8 a brief repose:
Then yields * wretdl 8ll hollf to ClODolplCring &Jeep,
His roof the eky,-his bed tl.e Cl'88IY lteep,
But furth .re ....... leadS bricht Stltyc'l t;raiu.,
He wakas to tread aoew the .-tb ol,.m.
• PractisN by a penit«:nt living at Beuara, 1796. Vid.
Ar. Re1. Vol. v. No i.
15
Sucll is the Y~B'"' tMk; and such waa thine,
To win, 0 &Ma, BrtJ/tma'1 aid divine. t60
Thus through tea ,w~p, great Diw., didst thou ~ow
The oeas lee1 stream of self-inflicted woe ;
Thus didat thOU pull, as sagest Mti.U. prove,
:reo yugr in deep de9otioa and tn love ;
Ner J1818'd in ftin-At length high Brahma 11aw
Thy well earn'd wwth, with reverellce and awe;
And bade (heDee, inorta1s, learn the ptl'ft!" of prayer)
The oil of pity eooth th' obdurate fair.-
Sbe owns his truth-His merits stand confess'd,
And Betil' influence warms her melting breast. 27o
" Go, bid," abe 'ft'ied, "those &ithful slaves that wait
With Sona'1 suit hebe Mtrftudda•a gate;
Go, hid thefa tell tiM! DlifJa ofthe vale,
His years ol'pious peaan.ee. pft!'rail ;
Arul great Hlfftldyd'• ~ter turns hit ear
To all be asks, 81111 seeks his presence here :
Nor shuns she now a 8p(8le atCMndra'r line;
But wills that 8MlJ and Nerbudda join."
As, zephyr-urg'd, Qe cleuds diapene and tty,
And bdght the !'Oft rulei •'f!!f the azure.sky; ·!SO
-16 ¥aBBUDDA;
As laughing flowers their ivory cups expand,
And gay Ragini's chant aJoog the land,
When Yuhnr.i from bia annual slumber springs,
And, o'er creation .wide, fresh influence ftiDp:
So from the soul of Sona sorrow fled,
And joy awaken'd, liveliest influence shed;
When rapid borne, on wings of gay delight,
His faithful slaves from Omm:'haf&~ height
Descending came, and bade the Deva hear,
"Thylov'd Nd-btt.dda is no more ~ere; 290
She now no more Candarpa's power defies,
No more she heeds not IIOI'TGWing Sona'• sighs; .
But bids the happy !Hva seek and prove,
In her high bowers, the richeet sweets ollove." .
Straight from his Nek.y couch the god _
uprear'd
His languid head, half doubting as he heard :
But transient doubts.alone his soul annoy;
Assur'd he hastes to meet the otfer'djoy.
The garb ofjoy supplants hil weeds forlQl'll ;
The new-bom year thus beauties fresh adOI'D. aoo
Smiles on his lipe with liquid radiance play;
Thus ftowe~ expanding meet the wakening day.
A Hllli'Dtr TALE. 17
His locks reclaim'd the champac* ~lands twine;
Thus 'mongthe cloudsthe gJeaming moon-beams shine;
His forehead bright with od'rous oil appears;
Th' horizon dark, thus rising CJaandr& chears.
O'er all his form Cut1era's splendour gleams;
Thus sports bright day o'er Yamit~~a's purple streams.
Light graceful from his waist the jammah flows,
Thus on the lot01 blue, the gold dust shows. 810
His every step new QU\jesty unfolds ;
His course thus through the signs great Surya holds.
Meanwhile the busy Devatas display
Their master's pomp, and form the long array.
Part stand prepar'd as active peons drest
To tell th' approach-and bear their lord's behest.:
Or fierce and martial Bqja/, puts appear,
And wield the scimitar, and point the spear.
• " Having bound hia locks with forest flowers, he hastens
.. to yon arbour, where a soft gale breathes over the banka
" of YamtiniJ1 there again pronouncing thy name, he modu-
" lates his divine reed." Gitagov.
. " His locks interwoven with blossoms, were like a cloud
u variegated with moon-beams." lb. Whence also several
of the res~ of these similes are borrowed.
c.
18 NIIRBUDDAj
Whate'er most worth, rich Sona'1 vales afford,
Others collect as offerings from their lord: 3~
And full the silver vases bright contain
Perfumes and honey, fruits, and oil, and grain.
Others bring gemS and gold, a glittering store,
Gifts meet for her whom Sona can adore.
And last the nuptial robe, that, duly tied,
Joins the fond JHva, and his heaven-hom bride.
Now some the instruments of minstrels bear;
And loud the Nagitras thUnder through the air.
Now some chaunt sweet hiS praise, or laughing flower&
Strew o'er his path in aromatic* showers. 330
Next numerous CUliest, tall and stout, are seen:
And forth they bear the pendant palanquin:
Prepar'd to share the toil in due relays,
· While onward borne, the swinging mansion plays.
Then rang'd in order fuithful Genii wait,
To serve the nobler purposes of state :
This the umbrella wide outspread assumes ;
That bears the betel-these the rich perfumes :
• According to the PUr-anas, these are the honours paid w·
great persona on extraordinary occasions.
t Culies, or coolies, are a race ofmen acting as porters.
A HINDU TALE. 19
Others the splendid banners wide unfold,
And load the breeze with streaming silk and gold; 340
Those following, bear what most their lord may please,
Supply his wants-contribute to his ease ;
And last the Sirddr, big with full control,
Learns his lord's will, and regulates the whole.
Forth splendid S()na comes-uplifted high
He fills his slave-borne car with dignity.
Now all prepar'd, his train, without dcla)·,
Toward Omer-~handac turns its winding way;
Threads the deep mazes of the varying vale,
While floating music loads the passing gale: 350
Climbs now the rocks that fence the mountains' sides;
Now its long length in thickening forests hides.
The scene, exulting, kindred Divas view,
Wish every joy, and every blessing too:
Nor doubt that future times shall bless the hour
When thus were wedded truest worth and power.
Nor less is busy preparation seen ·
In the high mansions of the mountain queen.
The fairy slaves are summon'd, and fulfil
Their mistress' wish with promptitude and skill : 300
C'l
'.W . NEB.BtTDDA ~
Part tO<IUTlUlge the banquet quick advance,
Or plali the order of the festive dance.
Those practise sring, and chaunt .Nerbudda's praise;
These tune the t~ene in concert with their lays.
Those bid the agate lamp new oil receive ;
These bring perfumes-or flowery garlands weave.
Part lead the votive cow in chaplets drest,
To greet with holy fonns th' illustrious guest:
Or place the friendly seat in order due;
Or spread the dower, rich glittering, full in view: 370
While holier bands more solemn rites prepare,
Construct the altar 'mid the hallow'd square,
Nurse the pure flame, the just oblations bring,
And bear lustrations from the limpid spring ;
The seven-fold circles draw, whose mystic ties
Bind ever firm the glad solemnities.-
Nor is Nerbudda'• selfwithout her cares,
But anxious for the interview prepares :
Calls studious to her aid each female art,
That deep may root her power in Sono.'s heart. 380.
o·er her fuir form, the bath warm freshness sheds ;
The sandal added, fragrant softness spreads.
A HINDU TALE.
The chosen vest improves her native grace;
And diamonds aid the splendour of her face.-
As, lucid opening to the blaze of day,
The lotos smiles with heavenly beauty gay ;
So the queen, seated in her rich alcove,
Awaits the offerings ofthe Diva's love.
She waits ; but waits by anxioW! cares opprest,
21
And expectation agitates her breast. 390
RB.ck'd by their force, she cried, "Johilla, friend,
« Fairest of slaves that on my steps attend,
« Quick to the borders ofthe mountain hie,
« And gather tidings of my destiny.
« Observe the Deva of the vales, and say
a Whether he hither comes in due array;
a Such as ambition's wish might justly claim,
a Such as becomes Nerbudda'• birth and fame..
u But joy shall crown my soul, 0 faithful slave!
« If, lion-like, his port be bold and brave; 409
a Ifthe blue lotos blossom on his face;
« Ifhis form wear the palm's aspiring grace;
« Ifbe be such as Heri, when he strove
« To win the tender fawn-ey'd Rddha'• love.
NEIIBUDDA;
" Hence-haste-return ; and bid my cares subside,
" And, in thy mistress, hail the happy bride."
Johilla heard Nerbudda's new behest;
And touch'd the earth, her fQrehead, and her breast.
Then duteous forth she went, and soon espied,
Scaling the mid-height of the mountain's side, 41
The Deoo.'s train. Long, numerous, richly gay,
Stream-like, 'mong rocks and woods, it woundits wa
The nymph, unseen, behdd with earnest eye
The splendid Sona slowly passing nigh.
Ah luckless hour !-ah fatal-fatal view!
Parent ofills, hence destin'd to ensue :
For while she gaz'd, Candn.rpa's keenest dart
Pierc'dher soft breast, and rankled in her heart.-
Love rules Johilla now with strong control,
Sways every motive, and possesses whole; 4~
Of faith and duty, palsies every sense ;
BHnds,her regatd to every consequence ;
Bids her resolve, though vengeance follow sure,
To win the ne.,.·, love byfraudfullure;
And bliss, however transient, boldly gain,
Though follow'd instant by an age ofpain.
A BINDt1 TALE.
By Maya urg'd, her feet with agile pace,
By nearest paths, the steep in part retrace:
Quick she assumes, such power the Dewtah's claim,
The martial emblems ofgreat DUrga's fame. 430
She grasps a spear-like Surya'a ray it beams:
She wears a helm-like lightning brightit gleams :
. .
Studded with gems, the seven-fold quilted vest,
That laughs at war, defends her swelling breast.
She takes the port-the awe-commanding mien,
And every semblanre ofthe mountain queen.
With step majestic, slow, she seems to come,
To bring the god with welcomes to her home.
She meets the train-a,nd bids the peom hie
Quick to their lord, and tell, the queen is nigh. 440
As oft at eve,·from forth the woodland shade,
The antelope quick bounds across the glade ;
When fed by spring, and mr from fear and pain,
He feels ecs~tic life in every vein :
& from his car, light darting, Sona flew
To meet the queen, and pay her homage due.
O'er her bright form his eyes approaching rove,
And drink rich draughts of reverenre and love :
.·· ....
·NERBUDl>A;
For smil~ adorn the beamy moon, her &ce,
Yet temper'd pure with dignity and grace;
Her limbs the waving lotos' grace combine
With the firm grandeur of the mountain pine.
·nmce Sona bow'd with aalutation meet,
And touch'd with holy reverence her feet*:
And thrice his hand plac'd on his glowing breast,
The faithful fervour of his love exprest.
Then thus he spoke : « May glorious CluJndra shed
« His ampl~t bl~ings on Nerbudda's bead:
« For she not only deigns, at length, to hear
« The suit most lowly of her slave sincere, 460
« But quitting now her mountain bright abode,
~· Befitting well the daughter of a god,
« :Meets my approach, and bids my soul receive
" Those joys·the musk, her favour sweet can gin~:·
• The pJaCtice of showing honour by touching the feet ol
the person honoured, is "'ery ancient. Mmib, among the va·
rious modes of re~~pect which the Brahmachar{, or religiow
studeBt, is to pay toward the person and family of his precep·
tor, ordeR~, that the young wileof the preceptor must not be
greeted .ewea by the ceremony oftouching the feet, but that
on his return from ajourney, he must once touch the feet o
his preceptor's aged wife. Menu: chap. 2. v. 212, 216.
A ll:INnU TALE•.
Johilla answered, "Anxious forth I came
rr To meet thee, Sona, .favourite of fame :
" Attend, and hear, and trust Nerbudda'1 word;
" I joy to meet thee now, son ofmy lord*."-
" And dost thou call me husband?" Sona cries,
25
The diamond pleasure sparkling in his eyes: 470
rr 0 happiness !-0 honour !-glory !-joy !
., Bright is the portion of my destiny.
" Thy lot with mine, ne'er, MadhlhxJ, compare,
" Thou spouse of Rddhd, lotos-footed fair;
" Nor you, ye sprites, that .Amitravati hold
rr On Meru'1 heights 'mid glittering gems and gold;
" Or feast in verdant Nandiina's alcoves i
« Or share true virtue's meed, celestial loves.
" Your splendours, pleasures, gladly I'd resign,
" For this my lot;-Nerbudda now is mine!" 480
o·erthe nymph's tace, halfdownwardbent, thesmile
Play'd in glad triumph at her prospering guile:
• Sacontala. " Let the son of my lord .make haste to tie
on the bracelet.• .
D••hmanta. "Now am I truly blessed."-That phrase,
&he son of my lord, is applied only to a husband.
Sa.contula, Act III.
26 lllE.IlBUDDA; .
Then thus with modest accent mild she atzove
To rule the transports of tlle Db:a'•love:
" Surely, my mucb-lov'd lord now needs repose,
" For fierce with Surya'• beam the welkin glows;
" And steep th' acclivity, and long the ro.d,
" That hither leads from Sou'• Jm'd abode:
" Then bear ofrest.-Hard by, a cavern wide
" Its deep space bonowB from the mountain's side.490
" From the a.rcb'd root, bright t:ryBtalapars depeDd,
" And dripping drops at intervals descend,
" Diffusing cool ;-nor dare fell beat invade
" That guarded bmue of solitude and shade ;
" Where rapt Sandysai silence lone abides,
" And knows no souod, save of the rill that glides
" 'Moog the smooth pebbles,-and in tinkling Jaye
H Asks him to bear his reverential praise.
" 'Tis nature's Clwultry.-Oo a mossy bed,
"' Woo'd by the breeze, my lOJ.'d shall rest his head; 500 !
" Or half-reclined shall view, and bid me k.oo:w,
.. The dis~t p~pects ofthe vale below."-
.. Wait here, my slaves," th' exulting Dha cry'd;
n ~ 0! delight dwells in thy words, my bride!
A Hlii!TDU TALE.
Seek we the cave, and there the countless hours
Shall roll in bliss : fur heavenly love is ours !!'
Weantime, the demon of impatience grim,
llow'd by madness, rage, vexation, whim,
igns o'er Nerbudda'.r mind, and spiteful plies
r brain with'painful possibilities. 510
What stays," she weens, ".iohilla'1 wish'd return?
Is Sona faithless ? must I slighted mourn?
0, maddeningthought !--Perchance~r'd, lost,
He treads the wilds of Omerc'ho.ndac'' coast.
Nor yet Johilla comes.-Can she too stray?
Slights she my orders ?-dare she disobey ?
Though fine like air her frame, perhaps with pain
The Ndga'a poison thrills through every vein.
Perchance the f.iger's bloody fangs may tear
Her sylph-like form, and give her to despair. 520
Ah dire mishap !-No longer let me wait,
With coward fears, the dread awards of fate.
What Ito, ye slaves ! my Yahdn quick prepare,-
My search sball traverse wide the realms of air;
:Nor shall it ceue, until Nerbudda know
'What fate awaits her, be it joy or woe."
•
lifEilBUDDA;
As o'er the steep of blest Cailasa's Bide,
With wheeling speed, the scatter'd vapours glide,
When mighty Surya's all-prevailing ray
Subdues the clouds, and vindicates the day; 530
So o'er her mountain steeps, in anxious basteJ
By pillowy clouds upbome, Nerbudda J*SS'd,
Searching each dell :-ere long, with mad surprise,
The twofold objects of her search she spies.
Screen'd by the cavern's brow from burning day,
On moss reclin'd, the amorous DetJa lay;
And, all intent on fair Johilla's charms,
Fond woo'd his love, or clasp'd her in his arms.
Ah, spare me,; goddess, should my vent'rous lay
Thine anger mortal, dreaded, dare display : 540
For o'er thy brow the thickening tempests lour; •
Wrathful thine eyes the streaming lightnings pour;
Loud in thy voice the bellowing thunders sound :
Surprise and awe the amorous pair confound.
" And canst thou, basest Deva,--canst thou dare
" Permit that slave thy plighted love to share ~
" Dar'st thou for her Nerbuddtz'1 selfdespise?
" And am I hateful to thy hated eyes ?
A mNDV TALE.
scom'stmypower. Know,sonofChandra'•line,
1ower is empty air oppos'd to mine. 550
mptuous wretdt, this instant-instant know,
; ills betide when I appear thy fue."
rag'd the queen.-Then from her earshestrode,
lden seiz•d the wondering trembling·god ;
asp like Indra'1, when he erst with ease
Mandlira's mass--churning the foaming seas. ·
h an arm more potent, Sitla threw
tndering bolts on Diti's impious crew,
te the Deva hurl'd with sudden throw,
1'd-shrieking, to the vales below. 560
nward by her anger's furious storm.
-and whirling quits his god-like form.
bs, to atoms shiver'd, scattering fly,
y sho\ver, swift darting from tbe sky ;~
! grey rocks they pelting, pattering, bound,
at was Sona once, flows trickling wide·around.
'dda saw the deed; and scowling smil'd,
uning quick,.and looking vengeance wild,
mbling slave she seiz'd, and scornful cast
.
oth' arms of the careering blast ; 570
NBBB\JDDA;
And bade the howling genius straight convey
To Omerc'hand.ac'• halls his trusted prey.
Thither arrlv'd-" 0 ! treacherous slave," she cry'd,
" What juste.t vengeance may inflict, ablde ! (filir,
u Vain wretch-thou thoughtest once that thou wert
" Thus-thus thy ears, thy nose, thy lips, I tear.
" Go now disfigur'd, foul, and.strive to move,
" Bleeding aghast, thy paramour to love.
« And you, ye walls, once-once my fond delight,
« Proofs now of wrongs, and hateful to my sight; 580
" And you, ye slaves, that grac'd my lov'd abode,
" And feign'd obedience to your mistress' nod.
" Begone-uor be your traces ever known,
" But leave that wretch unpitied andalone.
·~' Far from this s~t your injur'd mistress flies,
" To happier realms, and happier destinies."
Then spoke she Mantrar dire-The massy mound
Of Onterc'lumduc shook convulsive round,
And deep groans loudly, widely rumbling, heard,
In awful tones his sonowing liOU1 declar'd. 59(
Pale fear awakes to triumph :-fOr behold,
·The shivering rociks their stony gates unfold
A HINDU TAI.E.
Wide-yawniDg! and·in caverns deep disp_lay
Earth's da.fkling mysteries to the prying day.
:n
Shriek'd Cali's sprites :-then first the day they k~w;
The pent volcanos to the passage ftew ;
In eddying smoke, fire flashing, thick they sped,
And all around, unwonted darkness shed.
Nerbudda smil'd : then sprung, with darting bound,
Down the dark horrors of the deep profoUnd. 600
Then instant seem'd a thundering hiss to tear
The liquid substance of the viewless aiJ.;
And mingling upward, slaves, tow'rs, vapours, fly,
And, quick disSolving, mOck th' astonish'd eye.-
Thus when thou haSt inftam'd, 0 .Agni pure,
The woodman's pile with many a sod 8eQue,
While watchful, day and night, with ceaseless care,
His sooty toils the charring niass prepare;
Grateful he hastes to glittering Gdnga's side,
And borrows largely from her copious tide : 610
Then pours it o'er his taek.-Hot hissing rise
The vapours thick, and bold the cloudedskies.
Not clouded long:-the welkin's arid waste
The reeky beverage quaftS, with greedy haste ;'
NEJlBUDD4;
And bids thin space again assert her reign ;
Far see, the foe is gone that. dar'd thy wild domain.
Johilla now, with sense awakening slow
From trance-like teJTOr, tastes her draught of woe.
Prostrate, in pain, she notes, with eye forlorn,
The blood warm trickling from her visage torn. 69.0
She rears her bead, and, with a stranger's gaze,
The desert naked all around surveys.
In vain her anxious ranging eye inquires
For Omerc'handac'1 walls, and glittering spires;
In vain for aid from those lov'd friends she prays,
That shar'd her joys and cares in happier days:
Those walls are vanish'd;-those her friends are gone:
~d sad, disfigur'd, houseless, and alone,
She meets the rigours of a scorching sky ;
And hears but Pavan's breezes doleful sigh, 630
As o'er the barren heath they wing their way,
To sweep those mountains that in wide array
Present around their host of summits rude,
The realms of silence, and of solitude.
" Ab wretched state !-ab prospect horrid, drear,"
Johilla cry'd; "but is Nerbudda here?"
A HINDU TALE.
le trembled at the name.-With eye askance,
Le stole a fearful, hasty, partial glance
lW'rdthatdreadspotwhere late she seem'd t' have seen
le fierce departure of the angry queen. 640
l.t vain her fears : no terrors now remain ;
o yawning gulf deforms the mountain plain.
:te part alone unclos'd now meets the sight,
: size to suit Nerbudda'1 downward flight ;
hence-«> the goddess will'd-a river flows;
:td bubbling, boiling, fierce her anger shows.
~en U>o is anger in the current's force,
)I' rolling eddying, swift it holds its course.
'Om hated Sona'1 eastern vale it hies,
, realms that gJow beneath the western skies. 6¥l
,me to the mountain's verge, t~t high in air,
~ o'er the vales, the heedless waters dare
Be dire descent. At first in smooth array,
er the worn edge, they seize their rapid way;
tt soon the hostile rocks upswelling high
churlish forms the rushing Dl8ll8 annoy.
:lignant and in scorn the waters wheel ;
.d brawling sounds their riSing wrath reveal.
D
NZJlBUDD.A j •,
Now more oppoe'd, they dash with furious n:ge
Full o'er the foe, Uld war inceeant wage.
l\eliatUlce ~. surge leaps over surge,
And darting hoeta their swift precui'IOJ'8 urge.
The burly swells;-the waten war around;
And loud the rocks return the echoing eound.
The sbiver'd fluid foams ;-wide ftiea the spray;
And showera prismatic dance on Surya's ray.
Triumphing 'mid the scene, confusion bowls;
And terror, bending o'er, astonied acowls.
Nerbudda's ftashiDg stream they wond'ring Yiew,
At perils fearless, ttill her ooune pursue;
And rushing still UDOODC}llt!r'd, hun-ying flow,
To lave MutuliUa'• deep hid vales below.
They trace her thenc!e to Malwa's long domain,
And see her greeted by the shephenl swain.
Sooth'd by hil pipe, 11er rapld course she stays,
And 'IQong his herds meand'ring freely plays.
Now sleeps her wrathJ beneficent ofIIOUl,
She bids her copillo~ welcome waters roll
Through lhfierdl•'• realms j with Hheral hand
Diffuaing plenty through the sm~ land.
A BII!I'Dt1 TALE. 35
lere hears she pieas'd, while slow' her waters glide,
te busy natlooli wbO her favouriDg tide.
ad sees rich cities riSe in bright anay,
) grace her uiliQn with thy waves, Catnbay.
When nnw the hcmol"' of Nerbufidfl.'• ~
D more Jol&illtJ'• awe-struck 10ul engage,
er the past ecen~ ~r thoughts reverting rove,
-a'ught with, the tenderest energies of love.
ow fancy &eesj the ne.,a fresh u inam;
hen dreadful do1t11Wald hurl'd, and ecatteriag bbme.
Yet this fur me my &Aa did endure"- 691
hen glows her bmst with soft aifeCtlon puie.
Could I but rie\'f once more biB god-like grace·
Yet ah ! t~ ruiriB of my mangled lace."
'is now she owna th~ reign of wild despair,
o.d loud her laments rend the desert air.
roaosted IioW her grief, with many a sigh,
te sinking yields to sad necessity;
~t turns toWards &mo.'• vales her hoptlesa gaze,
1d thitherward with feet unconscioua straya; 100
lC fatal cavern seeks, fOrlornly slow,
ene of her greatest joy-her greatest woe.
D2
I
li!IIII:BBUDD.lj
Thither arriv'd, she kelll! with wond'ring view,
The steps whence downward hurl'd, the Dft,a flew,
Huah'd are the bowlings of the furious 'storm,
And horron now no more the scene defurm.
Clear arch the heavelll!-fl&ve where the vapows pia:
High round the rocks, and mitigate the day.
Adown those steeps, where Jate with shuddering aw
The bloody shower, Jo/,illa scatter'd saw,
The ribbon streamlets graceful, tumbling flow,
And babbling feed the listening Tarn below.
There on the bosom of a verdant glade,
Encircled nearly by the tow'ring shade
Of lonely heights, that round terrific nod,
Convene the limbs,·now liquid, of the god.
There inky-solemn-silent they repose,
The mournful·emblems of the Deva'a woes.
High from the cliff, the nymph awhile surveys,
The dell deep darkling with astounded gaze.
Till now reflection solemn painting shows,
The frowning aspect of encircling woes ;
Port.rays her wretclled, outcast, chearless, lone,
Sou transfimn'd,· and hope for ever gone.
A HINDU TALE. 37
rw sinks her soul. Now stands the wretch confest;
~t soft emotions heave her throbbing breast.
te seeks the spot where late the Deva woo'd,
llere fond reclines, by tenderness subdu'd.
J.t Sona is not--Sona is not here-
~ down her gory cheek tear chases tear. 730
!hold she melts !-her form eludes the eye !
•hilla flows all tear,-0 prodigy!-
lnk in the mQSS, her grief awhile she hides,
:td o'er the rocks in secret streamlets glides;
)IDe to the brink--adown the stony steep
le dripping flows, and flowing seems to weep.
ow 'mong the clefted rocks she shuns the day,
ow o'er them steals, and wins her shelving way;
Ills her sole wish-her dearest fond design,
>blend her waters with, lov'd Sona, thine. 140
er fond design the sprites of Indra aid,
td guide her trickling o'er the .verdant glade
1 Sona'1 wat'ry arms:-there bid her know,
te soothing balms of partnership in woe.
Such fate was their$-But now the cheering strains·
·kindred sprites, call Sona to the plains.
" Cclme. mucb-lDV'd .D6M, ~tber come;• tbe7 C'lT•
" And quail'with us, the cup of runljoy.
" Bask 'mid ~he glories of the blooming yeu•
« Inhale perf\lmes, awl Nature's concerta ~.
« Let not amhi1ious love thy heart control,
" Or disappointment deedeD all thy soul ·
" Love reigns but one, mid croru of heavenly }10\1
,; Various is joy ;-and manyajoy is ours.",
Glad SOM h~ the voice ofheavenly truth,
And fee~~ light ~es ofyouth.
He quits the g~ Taru.. and blitheand gety,
Down towalid the ~. brisk wins his various Will
Though cou.ntless rooks in miagled ruin. burl'd,
When c~ Mer&U• saw the shatter'd world,
Thick down the dells,in; spiteful iumult close,
Anti rudely SOit(J'a f.ree escape oppose;
Yet vain their eiforts : he, in l!wghing scorn,
Springs o'er tt.Jir heaps, in fuamy splendour bom
Or winds,, c:leat: spel'kling. through their loose am
And murmuring chides their idle poor de:Jaw.
These barri~ pess'd, his dancing waye he leads
'Mong herds, diaportiDg on the emerald mea.cl$;
A ;BIMDU T.U.E.
And bids them lave, when burna the IIOOiltlde beam,
And drink sweet coolnea from his limpid 1treaan. 710
Meanwhile the fuuntain •prites, from \U'Di well fill'd
With limpid wealth, 'moogdoud..a.pp'd beightsdil$i}'d.
Pour many a streamlet bright, and hUJTJing hie
'ro grace his train, and swell his dignity-
Them S01UJ wekomes : and, now full and bold,
Their powerful coune hil rapid. waten Jiold.
They seek thOle 1e1me1 where kindrecl Ditxu hail
Him, glad returning to the spacious vale.
Joy triumphJ DOW, the reign of grief is o'er,
And Bona tbinka of love and care DO more : 780
For see, his kindred frieDdB wiij1 busy toil
Scoop large .._ :J~~~~o~Uge t1uough the yleJdiDg IOil;
His.williog w.ten lead. with friendly band.
To give and gwtlua'.pleasure t.hJ'Clu8h tbe land.
His williDg waten GIWI1 tlle kind conboi,
And goldea..nn'd, meand'ring on, they roll, .
Deep piercing n_. the fol'elt'a pabDy ~llade,
Now bright dilportUlg ia u. ammy f§llldlr;
They now perfumes in ecstasy inhale,
Such as Maldya flin88 UfO:D tae gal6; 790
HERBUDDA;
Or now reflect the dark Tamdla'•* grove,
While loud the Cocil chants his song of love. ~
OnWard they fare, through fields of ripening grain, Xv
Great Lacshmi greeting mid her rich domain, ln
To those fair realms, where Patna'• walls unfold
Full peopled roofs, and towers high tipp'd with gold. h
There Sona seeks, the heav'n-born Ganga'• shores,
And offers, pious, all his wat'ry stores.
Nor can great Ganga such a gift disdain;
She ranks him 'mong t~e worthiest of her train. 800
" Come genial god-blest son of C/Umdra'i line,
" I know," she cries, "thy will accords with mine:
" Like mine, thy strea.rils beneficent I know,
" Lik~ mine, full fraught with life and hea:lth theyfiow.
« Downward from hence, in many a league display'd,
" The arid plains demand our annual aid :
" Give we that aid. 'Tis Ganga'• fund request;
" And Sona then shall see the natiom blest :
" For o'ertheirrealmsourminglingstreamsshallpour,
" And load with rich abundance laughing Gour." 810
• A species of laurel.
A HINDU TALE.
Sona, approving, hears the words benign~
And blends him instant with the stream divine-
Now tow'rd their purpose, mazy swift they hie ;
And aided by the torrent-shedding sky,
Assert, benevolent, their wond'rous reign
Full o'er each district of Bengdla's plain.
Like Ocean's self, their floods stretch wide around,
Like Ocean's self, the fur horizon bound.
Raft-borne, the swain now traverses the field,
That dusty late with panting steers he till'd ; 820
Marks how his rice its moated head uprears;
Or floating home, his wave-won harvest bears ;
His bank-built home : just o'er the flood it peers,
The plashy refuge of his wading steers.
Still onward rolls the flood-and bids its wave,
The heads, high branching, of the forest lave.
Now o'er those scenes the buoyant trav'ler.sails,
Where late in shade he woo'd the welcome gales.
The Seapoy, while he stalks his nightly round,
Hears 'gainst his fortress' side, the waters bound; 830
And sees, as Aron spreads his morning beam,
The city painted on the circling stream ;.
4i NB&BVDDA.j
Her wakening sons of trade or pleasure sees,
Ply thick their sails, ana fly before the breeze.
Meantime th' enrich'd, the saturated soil
Prepares to recompense the ploughman's toil :
QuafiB deep those liquid stores, that well shall feed
Its nurslings bursting from the aoften'd seed;
And rear the juicy stalk in green display,
Luxuriant tossing in the blaze of day. 840
The shrubs revive, that droop'd in scorching hours,
And furm anew their esse~breathiDg flowers.
With life renew'd, the woods their veins distend,
And bid their boughs with future fruitage bead. -
Thus, Ganga, flow thy streams with bleiBiDgs atm'd.
Thoseheaven-homstreams,thro'couat1eaarealmsador'cl.
But DOW the goda, their good accompliab'd all,
From oft'the plains their duteous waters call~
In many a current pour them on the main,
And leave the earth, ooce ~. to Stl1Ja'l nit;n. 851
Yariina'1 sprites the rushing deluge hear,
With wond'ring awe, and tar-retiring feu.
But Ocea old his lwaYen-bora children hails,
And greets them wekome to those Ra-decp -rales;
-
A HJN.DV 'TAJ.E.
Where gleams his palace, wheace with sceptrtd rNSJ
He rules the waves, that tar aad wide obey.
There in his ~ balls, high arclaing wide,_
Where peBJ:ly wealth nelt gleams on t!!Very side ;
Where count.lele llmlps in erystal order shine,
And pour. pure !plendour o'er the seene divine; 860
Where Dewtaks bring their tributary flowers,
And flitting scatter uomatic thowers;
Enthron'd on gems aJid gold, estrang'd fro:m :pUn.
Repose great Ganga, and her river train;
On living bowls of ..4m1''tta regale,
And rich pat'..-. with IHliiSe retin'd inhale.
Hear tun'd &,- Cinru'Jras, the co:e.das resound,
While Apsar.(ll, light sportive, dance around;
Wakening the seul those heavenly joys to prove,.
That wait the biest in Sr«rga.'s reaJms. above. 8;'&
Such joy& DOW Bona knows-his liOrrows o's,
The Cama'-
1 ..tart, ftower-tipp.'d, he feels DO> more.
Mortals attend, and learn, in Wisdo~·s hour;
To weigh tlae weight of dread Nerbaddti1 powell:
For she is DUrga, Siva's spouse severe,
An awful name, that Earth, Sky, Heaveu, revere•
..
lfBlBUDDAj
Her spear, not e'en Mahilha dare despise;
The grass is bitten* by her enemies:
Then pilgrim visit Omerc'handac'• shrine;
And bring thy olfurings to the fuunt divine. S80
There fast in honour of NerbudOO'• name;
Take of her stream, and go and tell her fame.
Thus shalt thou Durga's favour more secure,
Tium might a hundred AIIStlJametlha~ pure,
Thus shall thy sinful soul be freed from stain ;
Thy days long lengthen'd, pass exempt from pain.
Fame, like th' e.'ltending Vata, guard thy head,
Thy offerings round thee, like the Dun~a spread.
And when dread Yama's mandate from below,
Shall bid at length thy pyre funereal glow, 890
Thy soul com·cy'd by Cali'• high decree,
Shall share advanc'd some nobler destiny;
Shall rest on earth, to wear the monarch's crown,
Wreath'd strong with power, or gemm'd with bright
renown;
• This alludes' to the Indian custom of biting a blade or
gnw as a token ofsubmission, and ofasking quarter.
See inscription on the pillar called the Liit tif Firo: Sltah,
near Del!.£. AJ. Re1. v. 7. No i.
A HINDU TALll.
pier fil.r, through high Nauhatra'1 borne,
IICb those realms where Hen shines like morn;
oat on seas of bliss that own no shore,
lhmd sleep-and worlds exist no more. 898
•
•
GLOSSARY.
.fgni-Is one of the eight guardian deities, so called from
their supposed influence or care over the earth. He ia the
god of the element of fire. His •'acti, or wife, is Swdha,
or vital warmth; the same, perhapa, as the Roman Ve1ta.
This god is called Pavaca, or the purifier; obviously on
account ofthe purifying power offire. He is represented
in the pagodas with four arms, indicative of power, h!s
head encircled with flames, and sometimes seated on a
ram ; alluding, perhaps, to the heats, which, in India,
follow the entrance of the sun into that sign of the.
zodiac.
Amrlta-This is a liquor, and the same, to all irrtents and
purposes, as the ambrosia of the Greeks; fo.r by drinking
it the deities of Hindrist'han become immortal; and so
effectual is it3 power, that when the A11ura Rahu tasted
48 GLOSSARY.
it, though, on his being obsen•ed of Vishnu, that god cot
off his head, ere he could swallow the liquor taken ioto
his mouth ; yet the head became immortal, and cel&-
brated for its oracular powers. Hence the fables of oraeo-
l:ir heads, of which that of the Oxford philosopher, Friar
Bacon, has been familar to English legendists. The
Amrrla is sometimes mentioned as though it were milk
or honey. Mend says it is the food taken at sacrifices.
As the Amrrta, according to the legend of the CoiU'IIII
Avatara, was produced by hard labour, and next alter
Sr{, the goddess of Plenty, it seems that the idea of soch
a liquor arose from the salutary effects of the use of milk,
as h~man sustenance, or of any other production ob-
tained by human labour employed in cultivating the ~rth,
and perfecting its produce..
.Apsara1-Beautiful female spirits, yet not wholly immaterial;
employed chieRy as the attendants on abe beatified spirits
residing in the realms of fndra.-Vtde fndra.
.Aswamldhas-The sacrifice of a horse, is called by Men8
(chap. 11, v. 26) the king of sacrifices, to be able to
remove all sin, and to secure to. the devout votary, if duly
·performed, the high rank of a monarch in some future
state ofexistence after death. At this sacrifice, the horse,
according to some rites, is turned loose previou~ to immu-
·.'GLOSSARY, 49
lation, and followed by the sacrificet, who is obliged to
combat any person who may attempt to stop him. Ac-
cording to the Callca Pdr,!na, the head of the victim
· having been struck off, if possible, by a single stroke of
the axe, is offered, with some of the blood, in a dish,
before the image or shrine of the god t6 whom the sacri-
fice is made. In the same manner, the sacrifice of other
animals is performed, and even of men, who seem tO have
been anciently immolated, by the disciples of Brahma, in
dreadful numbers, exceeding even the waste of life, occa-
sioned by the sacrifices of the Scandinavians and Druids
ofancient, ortheinhabitants of Mexico, and ofthe South
Sea islands of modern times. The slaughte"ring supersti-
tion which dictated these sacrifices, seems to have be-
come so excessive in the practice of these rites, as to have
excited the utmost horror in the minds of the philosophers
of India, and induced Bdddha, who is perhaps nothing
more than what his name implies, a personification of a
school ofphilosophers, in order to deprecate the cruelty of
this worship, to teach, as a barrier against it, his precepts
rigidly enjoining abstinence from injury toward any sen-
tient creature. It is well known that the preceptsofB&ddhtJ
have been productive of the most extensive effeCts on the
Hindd habits_; they have not, however,. ~ ·-any means
50 GLOSSAllY,
eradicated the practice of bloody taerifices. Me~~, m.
deed, are not now slain for that purpoee, b-1 youuglamll
and kids are killed in great numben yearly in &.pi,
and other parts of India; nay, many acta ap~
ne:u to human sacrifices are practiaed upon the ~
apeciea by the SaivtU and wonhippen of C4U. OriP
ally every meal was a kind or sacrifice, and com,enel1
every sacrifice became ~ meal and a feaat-ortentillld a
licentious feast ; and h~nce most probably originated the
horrid and unnatural practice of cannibalism.
Betll-Is a compound for mastication, much and loDgmel
in India. It consists of a leaf of a pungent plant, tbe
piper betle o£ Linnzus, wrapped round a piece o£ tbe
kernel of the nut of the areca palm, and covered with a
thin crust or shell of lime. it is considered in India II
salutary to the breath, and a great preserver of the ttJeth,
whose beauty it improves, accordiDg to the fancy of tbe
inhabitants of Eastern Asia, by rendering them neuiJ
black. The apparatus for using it consists of a box or
gold, or other costly materials, in which it is carried, aad
another to receive the saliva of the penon using it. Thele
are borne by one, sometimes two atWDdants, who form
·']lin'Of' the retiDuo of penom ofraDlt in India, whether
CLOIISARY, 51
nate or female. This is sometimes superseded by the use
J( tobacco~ which, however, seems to be comparatively
nodem, not being mentioned in any of the ancient San-
'crit writings.
van{. Most of the personages of the Hindu system of
nythology are represented as married. To the male
w husband is attributed the exciting power, or pri-
nary cause of effects ; to the female, or wife, are assigned
he excitable qualities, opera!ng in consequence of the
:xciting cause to the immediate production of the effect.
l'he female is calletl, in Sancrrt, the ldct{, or effective
»>Wer of the male. Bhaudn{is a goddess, and the •act{,
'r wife of S{va, a deity, the personified cause of destruc-
ion and reproduction, or the changes which attend the
:ourse of nature. As the wife of Siua, considered in his
eproductive character, this goddess is known by the
1ame ofBhdvan{, and is adored as Alma Mater, the great
iDd powerful mother of all things, and even of the in-
erior orders of the gods ; and in this she certainly hears a
ifC~t resemblance to the majestic, though wayward Hert
11' JuM o£ Greece and Italy. As the wife of Siva, the
lestroyer, Bha114n{, is known by the names of Dll.rga,
hat is, difficult ofaccess, and CtJ.l{, dark or inky. Ddrga,
ike the Roman Minerva and Greek Pallas, iereprcacmted
Es
GLOSSARY.-
in the pagodas of India clad in armour, ·and she particn-
larly bean the formidable Tritdl, or three-pointed spear,
significative, as it should seem, of her influence over air,
water, earth. A third eye is said to be placed in her fore-
head, evidently the emblem of wisdom and disceniment.
ThisDU1'ga is formidable; but Cala, considered asthe wife
of Siva in the character of Cal, or Cala, 'that is, TJme,
is terrific. ·She is represented ofa black complexion, ud
wearing a necklace·of human heads ; her teeth 'are" large
and grinning, like most of the Hindd deities of the BAal-
.rava, or terrible family of ~{va. She has commonly four
· hands. · One holds a human head, another a heavy mace,
a third a bell for worship, and 'the fourth the bloody
bowl of· sacrifice, and she stands on the brea5t of a pro-
strate monarch, evidently signifying the victory ofTime
over kings and kingdoms. All the maleficent spirits
called the lact{s, whose displeasure ·many tribes of m..
· clus very diligently strive to avert (Buchanan's Journey),
are·believed to be incarnations or forms assumed by CJU.
As riven, the great means of fertility in hot climates,
usually take their rise among hills and mountains, Bits-
van{ receives the title ofParvat{, or mountain-hom, aud
is called the daughter of ·HimacMl or Himaltlya; lord of
the mountains lying on the north ofHindust'h4n, amoog
GLOSSARY, 53"·
which is the source of the Ganges. For tl)e same reason,
she itJ said to have assumed the form of the river Nerbud-
da or Narmada, or rather to be the deity presiding over
its waters. This is a striking instance, among many
others, of the allegorical structure of the Hindu mytho-
logy.
Bkyroe. Whether this pel'90nage is the same as the mighty
Mahesha, c;IVer whom DUJ-ga triumphed, is not very cer-
tain. Captain Blunt saw at RuttunpUJ-a, in the neigh-
bourhood of Omer'chandac, a building dedicated to the
worship of this pel'90nage, aud in it an enormous idol of
blue granite, nine feet high. It was rubbed over with
red paint, and adorned with flowers; circ111Il8tances which
prove, that it was an object of adoration to the Hindd6 of
the neighbourhood. Bhyroe must have been an evil spi-
rit or A11dra, but this is no objection to the fact of his
being wonhipped, since evil beings of various orden
are worshipped, especially in the DecJn, to avert their
malignity, for the same reason as the ancient Egyptians
worshipped Typhon, and various mischievous and noxious
animals.-Jablonski, Panth. .lEgypt.
I'Jrakma. Vide Maha-Dlva.
'Nalmui's Sleep. It is an article of belief w1th great-part of
the disciples of the Vida, that all things, the .univefte it-
..UDOt cuccepted, exist only in i.dea. ; at. ta\h~' a~ \:.Ott\.- -
GI.OISABY;
posed of a 'Y•tem of ideu originating in Brain•, til
preme Being, but actually or immediately pnM1ac
Brala•u, the efficient·Creator, from whom, wbi
exerts his powers of combining ideaa, things c
proceed into being; but that when he ceues to exert
his powers, things created die away, vanish from
ence, and return back to their first chief ca'Uie. ~
periods of the existence and non-exiatence of creau:
ingl. the philoeophers of the J'ltlG diatin&Wah in
allegorical manner by the figure of the day lDd nigl
the waking and sleeping of BroArrt4. Of theae chi
which are believed tohave been repeated a vast num
times, the institutes of Memt thus apeak, (chap•
.st.) "~that power (Bralara4) awakes; for tl
slumber be not predicable of the sole eternal mind,
nitely wise and infinitely benevolent, yet it ia pm!
of Bra•4 figuratively, as a general property of life,
has the world ita full e:r.panaion; but when he alu
with tranquil spirit, then the whole system.fada a
Whether the doctrine of the successive orpnisati
thia earth, taught by thia allegory, be, or be DOt. .,
improbable and absurd, is a point which may 1
wholly unworthy the examination of the di-rine u
pbiloeopher.
BIIIUr. In this, and the {we{o\\ow\u"~.~Q(•
O.LOSSA.RY. 55
ticles used in the Hindu sacrifices, and the principal ob-
servances of the Hindu wonhip, are enumerale\l; conse-
quently, the ~ cannot be well understoOd, without
some account ofthe rites and ceremonies ofthe Brahmins.
The religious duty of the Hindu consists of five principal
rites, which the translator of the institutes of Menu di..
tinguishes by the name ofthefive great sacraments. These
are enumerated by that legislator, iu the following verse:
" Teaching and studying Scripture, is the sacrament of
the VIda; offering cakes and water, the sacrifice of .the
manes ; an oblation to fire, the sacrament of the deities ;
giving rice and other food to living creatures, the sacra·
ment of spirits; receiving guests with honour, the sacri-
fice of men." (Menu, chap. 3. v. 70.) Of the last four
of these five sacraments, it may be observed, that they
cog~priae the ritual of pagan antiquity, and that they were
generally practised at their sacrifices. The sacred cake and
water were introduced at almost every sacrifice : fire to
consume part, or the whole victim, was an essential re-
quisite; and the liltation, or pouring of part of the wine
or liquor lUed on the occasion, resembles, or at least cor-
responds with, that act of the Hin(lr~, when he leaves part
orthe offering a prey to birds and dogs, the representatives
ofthe invisible spirits which, as be supposes, Inhabit the
56 G-LOSSARY•.
ai~. It maybe farther added, that the hospitality of the
ancient heathens ofthe western world, bears no very ~light
resemblance {0 the fifth Of the sacraments; especially1 3S
a sacrifice·was an act offestivity, andgenerallyserved asan
entertsinment for the friends ofthe sacrifieer. After these
()bservations, it wiii be sufficiently obvious, that the short
compass ofa note will not serveae an e:xplaaation of these
rites. This,·therefore, must be relinquished, and a con·
cise account ofone of the five sacraments·mustsuffiee, in·
1teadof a full description, to convey a general idea ofthe
ceremonies belonging to the others, which are very nu-
merous, and minutely perplexing. When the·.oblation
to fire is to be performed, in honour ofaH the gods•, the
officiating priest first consecrates a level area.offour cu-
bits, by smearing it over with oow-dung; a suhltance,
which, from its gelatinous nature, soon hardens in a hot
climate, and forms a clean ·floor. . Upon :this area, he
next draws several lines, in the directioRS preecribed·by
his ritual, and then sprinkles the area with :water. This
done, he throws away an ember fro111 the acred lice in a
• All the gods, or the assembled gods termed in ~t vlnotdJ.
/I!U, are th111 addressed and described in ,a tlltllllril llled on 4lel'taiD
occasions.. " Aaaembled gods, liaten to my invocation ; ye who
reside in the sky; ye who abide near 111 (on earth), or &r oW (ID
heaven). !u. Jl8,Vol. vii. No. 8.
'·..
GLOSSARY.· 57
CJ(Wered vessei, in which it had been brought from ·some
sacred fire, lighted by the friction oftwo pieces ofa parti-
cular kind ofwood, and maintained by fuel ofthe same;
·he then places the fire upon the consecrated spot. Around
this vessel, thus placed upoa the ·a011r, b.e next dis.poses
in due order; several blades.of the sacred cwa grass (Poa
Cynosuroides), ami sitting down upon the ground, in the
manner directed in the ritual, :pronounces the ~es of
the earth inaudibly. Should any-inauspicious word have
been spoken during this process, he now atones foe it, by
reciting a prescribed mantra, orsaered text. At this time
also, if any.special act of w.ership is intended., the mate-
rials for sacrifice are prepared, and a suitable mantra is
pronounced. More blades of casa are now placed in or-
der, round the vessel containing the fire; and the priest
having laid on wood, and poured upon it a ladleful of
gM or clarified butter, he sits down with his face towards
-the east, and meditates in silence on Brahma, lord of
creatures.
After some interval, the officiatill@i priest proceeds to.
consecrate the vessels and butter to be usedinthe sacrifice,
a process not a little intricate, and accompanied with the
recital of various mantrru, or sacred texts, after which,
having burned in silence a small log ofw09d smeared with
l58 GLOUABT.
the gM, he makes three oblatioru, by pouring each time
a ladleful of butter upon the fire,, saying, " Earth I be
this oblation efficacious. SkyI be this oblation effica-
cious. Heuen ! be this oblation efficacious.'' Such is the
H6ma, or oblation to fire ; sometimes performed alone,
but always uaed as an introductery rite to other ceremo-
nies, performed on a variety of occasioru by the pioua
Hindu.-Colebroke, on the religious ceremonies of the
Hindlf1. As; Res. Vol. vii. No. 8.
In the rules for the performance of this ceremony, no
mention is made of the image of the god, to whoee ho-
nour this is performed ; a proof, that the B6ma was an·
terior in practice to the use of idols, or at leas~ dlat the
&utru do not consider them, as even requisite to reli·
gioua worship. Idols, however, have long formed an es-
tential part of the furniture of every Hindu place of wor·
ehip, whether public or private ; and to prepare them for
the purpose of receiving adoration, is one ofthe principal
duties of the priests. For thi1 purpose, previous to the
hour of the puja, or public worship at the temples, the
idol is bathed with milk or water, especially that of the
Ganges, if it can be procured. It is then anointed with
butter and odoriferous oils, clad in the most ~tly robes,
.and adorned with the richest jewels, the papla may
GLOSSAllY. 59
happen to possetS. Attendant priests keep offthe flies and
insects from the honoured god with chouties or &appers,
for~ed either of the white hair of the black Thibet cow,
or ~r peacocks' feathen. The Homa is then performed,
but the coneecrated ceremonies are omitted at the temples,
since both the area and utensils are there already conse-
crated. The offerings ofworshippers are then made. These
conaist of rice, butter, camphire, fruit, and flawers, of
which, certain sorts are sacred, or appropriated to the
deity. Theee the votaries either briag with them, or
purchase of the priests at the temple. In the mean time,
'
the BayadirM, or dancing girls, move in the sacred dance
to the sounds of various instruments, among which, that
of the conch, or of the bell, is generally heard. Some•
times the whole assembly moves round the fire and 1he
idol in procession, and the whole ceremony ends with a
111allh'a pronounced by the priest as a benediction.-Ind.
Ant. Vol. v. chap. 3.
It mar be.said to be impossible to enumerate all the dif.
ferent modes of worship prectised by the Hindw. It is
not to be doubted, that they vary very much among dif·
ferent sects; and these, notwithstanding the bigotry of the
Hind.U, are very numerou1. The gm~ter part are termed
IITadliluu, or obsequies, and lhese, according to the learned
GLOSSARY.·
Colebroke, may be classed under the tweh-e _followiq
~&, which may aerve to convey an idea of the geoeral
~ject.s of Hind~ wonhip. I. Daily obeequ&e., either
with food, or water only, in honour of ancestors in gene-
ral, but excluding the YiWJidha. 2. Obeequies for a
11pecial cause, that is, in honour of a kinsman m:ently de-
funct. 3. Voluntary obsequies, performed by way of au-
penrogation for the greater benefit of the deceued. 4.
Obtequies for increase of prosperity, performed upon any
accession of wealth or prosperity, or upon othor joyful
oceuions. 5. A tTadcllta to aanctify the food at ao .en-
tertainment given to a company of reverend peraons. 6.
One performed, when stated numben of priests are fed at
the cost of a penon, who needs purification from eome
defilement. 7. A ITadclluJ preparatory to the eelebra-
tion of any aolemn rite. 8. Srud4AM, in honour of
deities. g. Oblations of clarified butter, previous to the
undertaking of a distant journey. 10. A 1radtrlus to
anctify a meal of flesh meat, prepared simply for the sake
ofnourishment.-:\•. Res. Vol. vii. No.8.
Procaeions, in which the imagesofthe deities are con-
veyed with great solemnity in circuit, to visit holy placet,
mwt be ~koned among acts of public wonhip, paid to
the gods oflndia. The image used on these occasions, is
GLOSSARY, tn
not always the principal idol of the "pagoda, but one of
s~ondary sanctity. It is sometimes conveyed on a ma~
chine called a rat'lw,, orwaggon, often having six or eight
wheels, and raised to a great height, by a pyramidal struc-
ture of several stories, adorned with paintings and other
representations, illustrative of the legendary history of the
god. Those rat'has are drawn by the zealous votaries of
the god, who consider this service as highly meritor!ous,
and are often so animated by a frenzy of zeal, as to sacri-
fice themselves, by laying down their heads so as to be
mashed by the ponderous rolling wheels. On some oc-
casions, the idols are carried on a stage or platform, rest-
ing upon men's shoulders; at others, they are laid in a
d&la or palanquin. These processions conduct the idol to
visit various temples, tanks, and other sacred places, at
certain seasons of the year ; and after an absence ofsome-
times several days, the image is brought back to its former
station. (Buchanan's Journey in the Decan, Vol. iii.) It
is curious to remark, that no orders, or rules for the per-
formance of these ceremonies, are to be met with in the
· Vedas, nor yet in the Institutes of Mlmi; from which, it
may be inferred,· that they are of a more modem institu-
tion than those works ; though yet they are probably of
great antiquity, since similar rit~ were practised in ho-
..
GLOSSAB.Y.
nour of the goddi!SS Cybele, by the ancient Greeks o£
Asia (vid. Mythological Accounts of Cybele-Bell's
Pantheon), and in the Lecti.sterma (vid. Livy, B. v.
c. 13. Kennet, Ant. part 2. chap. 18, or Bell's Pan·
theon) of the early ages of the rei>ublic of Rome.
Cailasa. This is a mountain said to be the abode of the god
Siva. It is on that account of great celebrity, and, o£
course, highly adorned and magnified by the Hindu le-
gends. It is said, with the usual extravagance of those
compositions, to consist of inestimable gems, and to ex·
tend to the length of a hundred Yoj4nas ofeight or nine
hundred miles each, and the breadth of fifty. It is gene-
rally agreed, that it is situate on the north ofHinddsfk4n,
and the name is given by pilgrims, to a mountain or hill
of moderate size among the Himal4ya tract, and from it
issues a stream, said to be the principal, or primary atream
of the Ganges.
Cama is the Cupid or god of love, in the mythology of the
Purt!no.~. He is known by various other names, as
Smt!ra, Candarpa, Ananga, and others, all significative,
like Cdma, of love and desire, or alluding to the powers
ascribable to such a deity. This god is most evidently the
i:reature ofingenious allegory.; for he is feigned to be the
GLOSSARY•• 63
son of_Mtl!fts, or the goddess of imagination (see Jones's
.Argnmentto Hymn to Ct~mde); or, accordingto the Cash-
aririan system, of Ctuy4pts or Ur11FW1, that is, ofthe hea-
vens personified. By this, itis intimated, that the passion
of love depends much upon-the imagination, and that itis
of heavenly origin, or owing toa higher motive than mere
animal nature. In continuation of the allegory, it is
&anght, that the wife, that is, the s4cti, or efficient power
of C4ma, is Rd{, or affection, and his intimate friend is
Y111a11ta, or the spring; the meaning of which is very ob-
Tious. The penon of C4ma is that of a beautiful youth,
bearing a bow, made either of the sugoar-cane or flowers,
its string composed of connected stinging bees. His
weapons are five arrows, each pointed with the blossoms
of five difFerent plants of a heating quality, but probably
in different degrees, and productive ofdifferent degrees of
passion. C4ma is usually engaged in conversatiOn with
his mother and consort in gardens and temples, especially
th01e near AgriS, his favourite residence ; but sometimes
he traverses the air by moonlight, mounted upon his fa-
vourite bird the lory, or parrot, attended by twelve
nymphs, or dancing girls, ofwhom the foremost bears hi•
banner, a red flag, with the figure of a fish in the middle.
It is writt.CD in the Siva Pur4na, that he once had the
0LOS8ARY,
audacity to direct an arrow at the breast ofthe stem Sl!Ja;
who, although he yielded to the influence of the inftun.
ing point, resented the attack with such fury, that he
hurled at the unfortunate Cdma a flame of fire, by which
he was instantly consumed to ashes, and thus reduced tD
a mental essence, signifying in plain terms, that his power
was confined to the minds of mortals. The distress ofRt·
tl at this disaster was extreme, and the god&, mewed with
pity, interceded for the pardon of the offender; which
being obtained, Cdma was again restored to his bodily
form, and appeared as before, in all thesplendourofyouth
and beauty.-See Jones's Hymn to Dwga.
Chanrlra. This deity, who is known also by the name ofSo-
ma, is a personification of the moon,.which he is sup-
posed to rule or animate. According to some of the Hi•
du mythologies, he is considered as theson ofAtT(,:the son
ofBrahma. (Jones on Chronologyofthe"Hindu1.) In the
Rigvlda, the first of the three Vedas, it is written, " The
moon is born of the sun." (As. Res. Vol. viii. p. 406.}
But, whatever be the pedigree of this deity, he is always,
with some rare exceptions, represented as a male. This,
though a deviation from the Grecian system, is agreeable
to themythologies ofthe northern nations ofEurope; who,
inverting the Hindu system, consider Mar~e the moon aa
GLOSSARY, 65
a dtalci, and Sumui, the ann, ai female. ~Edda, Fable 6.)
:bat thOugh these nations differ as tO the sex of this per-
sonage, they agree in the opinion, that his office is to
preside over waters. The llrgvecla writes, « Rain is pro-
duced from the Moon." (As. Res. Vol.viii. p. 4o6.) And
a Hindd commentatoron this passageobserves, that « rain
enters the lunar orb, which consists of water." (Ibid.)
·• THis opinion, concerning the attribute or p'ower of the
biOOrl, is to be found even in the writings ofour dl'lllll&tic
~Sblikspeare; who, in the MidsummerNight'sDream,
calls the moon, « Governess of the floods." Mtnd (ch.
• 3; nr. 76.) writes, « tke smoke of oblations aseends tO
. Ule_
stin, and from"the sun it falls in rain; and from rain
eomes vegetable food;" but in this, the intervention of
the moon in producing rain, is only omitted, no\ denied :
and comistently with the opinion, that the moon is the
!iOtnce of rain, he is the effeetive means of the growth of
v~bles; and therefore S6ma is called, in the Yldtl,
- n·king of herbs and plants." (As. Res. Vol. v. p. 345.)
This deity, who must always be a t'avourite in hot coun-
tries~ beeause the inhabitantsexperience the greatest plea-
sure &om their amusements taken in the evening by his
. . light, is figured by the Hmda1 seated in a splendid car
· drawn byanti:lcipes, ailcl bearing in hia bosom a sleeping
v·
GLOSSARY.
fawn~ named Sa.sin. By the fermer, they allo
timate the irregular motiona of this heavenly
the rapid leaping of·lhe.~lope not unaptl
aud it is fancied, that· the· dark parts on tb
~r the form of a sleeping fawn. Under a
these, the philosophers of Asia and antiquity
been wont to veil their knowledge. These·a
vulgar have always been apt to understand
aense; and modem Europeans, supposing t
only to be so understood, have always been
term them absurd.
Chou/try. A chouhry is a building ereeted fo1
modation of travellers ; and is a place whe
lodge their goods, place their beds, eat unde1
give provender to their beasts of burden. },
cles the traveller must either bring ·with him
.from the neighbourhood; for the chou/try gen
nothing more than bare walls. In some inst
ever, the charity of individuals has appointed
nerallyBrahmin~, to take careofsuch travelle
and sometimes to let out to hire, at ·a low 1
couches ; but these accommodationsare by nQ
mon. The form of the chou/try is usually
open towarda the north, with sheds of piazz
GLOSSARY. 61
ner·aide of the walls, and sometimes small rooms for the
aecurity of goods. In the middle of the court is an en-
closed space, where the beast brought by the traveller,
may be placed and fed.· These buildings are generally
erected by the bounty ofindividuals, and sometimes at the
expense of the state. But in either case, their construc-
tion is coni;idered as an act of charity ; as indeed are all
such as contribute to the accommodation of the stranger.
This opinion is founded upon a conviction of the obliga-
tion to the practice-of h01pitality ; an opinion as general in
Asia, as it is ancient. Owing to this, Timul Naik Raja
ofTanj~~ra, who built a grand choultry near the pagoda of
Mallllra for the accommodation of pilgrims and other
religious visitants, has been almost·deified; and some de-
gree of the same-kind of praise is given to those persons
~ plant a Tope or_grove, or open a well,_near the way-
side, for the convenience and refreshment of passengen.
None of the British governors, or other residents in Hind-
Ut'lu!n, have hitherto employed any part of their wealth
~ theconstruction of chou/tries ; aod are, on that account,
thought by the natives to be selfish and uncharitable. It
might be well, if measures were. ta_ken to convince the
Hindu1, by \he conatructiOJl of chou/tries and similar
~orks, that the Christian religion teaches the necessity of
"P2
68 GLOBIAtlT.
c:ha:ritable acts ; and that the Britiah Christiam are DOl
unmindful of such precepts• The chnltry is calletlart-
rai, or caravaruarai, in- Mahometan or western Alia;
and is there constructed from the same charitable motim
by the disciples of the KorGJf, as is the clltmllTy by the
votaries of Brahm4.
Chronology. The chronology of the Bralmlha did, ~
yean ago, very much engage the attention o£·Europeant;
. chiefly because 89me French philoeophera, ·or the eeboal
ofVoltaire, had the boldness to affirm, that the· chiooo-
logy of our sacred ac:riptures waa cO!npletely inftli4atld
by that ofIndia, which afforded a systematicatrallpiCIII
of periods, bearing all the marks of authenticity; ud
widely differing from that laid do'Wn in the boob·Of the
Hebrew lawgiver. The remarks of Sir WiHiaurJoaes,
in his Essay upon the Chronologyof the H"aulb, maybt
said to have shown, that the immeme peri'odi daicribcd
in the Sl.ltr41, could not be consideml"as the·n::c:oidl or
real time; and the subsequent diecovery, thaher~lodltl
systems, very different from that examined by the- judge
ofBengal, both in the structure and·leDgtb" of their pe-
riods, has clearly proved his opinion·to be-' trbt;··ad
shown, that the vast, and almoet infinite, leties or..
reigned by theBrAhmin, and vumted bfthe iJafidel~
GLMS.U:Y.• 69
~n, .bav.e.cnrecl.their existence'chiefly to a fanciful-use
Qf.U.tuithm~ notationby figures, which the Hindds
. having in.ven~ aeem todelight almostwantonlyto abuse.
'l;Jle. proof of tbeae positions, would lead into diaquisi·
..tiona much too long fur the purposes here intended. The
~h.of:these.obeervations may, however, be rendered suf-
. ficiently.cwident, by an account of the manner in which
the pa:\ods of .the system at present received in Hindust'-
Atin are conatmcted; and, for such an ~unt, the first
chapter of the Institutes ofMenu affords materials most
.ample.and a!Uhcntic. "A year of mortals," writes the
Hiildulegialawr (ch. 1. v. <>7), "is a day and night of the
,gada." 'l'hia fundameutal position, is evidently nothing
more than.W1cy, and such also must be the superstructure
raised upo11 it. " Sages," continues he, "have given the
name qf CrUea or Satya to a Yuga, or age, containing
.four,tqOUI&Dclywa of the gods; the twilight preceding it,
contistaof as lllllllY hundreds, and the twilight following
it of)he WJlC nun;lber. In the other three ages, with
their ~ilights preceding and following, are thousands
.&Dd.bUJ;J.d,reds, diuliniehed by one." Tile divine years in
tl1e·four h-wnan ~~ges just described, being added together,
.t.beirJIU!P, or twelve thousand, is called an age of the gods.
•By reekooing a tho~ divine ages or Jlaha-ydgr.u, a
GLOIIAaY.
day orBrM.4 maybefound; hilaipti..-ormerpl
duratioa. "The ~tiaor.d -. or lhe p. ar
• twelvethousandoftheiryean, being myltiplied byll:ftllit
"
one, constitutes what is called a M~.un., 01' Ripof
a ~llend. There are then foor hwoan ~ tbe SC,.
Ydga, Trila YUg4, DllllptJr4 YU,a, aod C4l{ Ylfp, in
which the third is dooble, the IC:CODII-treble, aad the lint
quadruple, of the last. Theee ages are~ by
characteristics, eucdy the same as tboee cte.:ribal by !he
Rmnan poetOvid,in hisMet:uDoi'JII-, a wodd.O...nedoo
an idea JJlOBt truly Hifldrl, and probably, likelllCIIt ofthe
HindU poetry, allegorical. During the coune of thae
ages through the several M~~eallttlrtu, IDII!D, accoaliug111
theStutra1, become degenerate; are thtenftdOrmed, aud
again degenerate; but at the end of the.v-..t4r4, all
living creiltures are destroyed, the Menu ~. who,
with some other persons, escapes in·a boat, Uld prociw:es a
new and pure race of men. This doctrine i• evidently
borrowed from, or is rather the heathen tatimoay to the
truth of, the Mosaic history of the ~ deluge. Four·
teen of these Men_wantara~ compose a clay of.BrclrU; at
the expiration ofwhich, the whole a-eation vanilhes, ad
ceases to exist during Brahm4'1 night. 'When that Di@Jlt
is put, Brahm4 -renewa again the work of cn:etica.
QLOSSABY, 71
These cotir!es are continued in suec~sion during the life
.cf Brakm4; at whose death, even the gods expire, and are
all absorbed into the essence of Braltme the Supreme.
The number of years in each of these period3, will appear
from calculations made according to the foregoing rules,
to be as follows :
The Satya Yuga will be determined by multiplying a
year· and day ofthe gods in the following manner :
4000X36o:: 1440000 years ofmo~tals.
400X360= 144000 years thein morning twilight.
400X 36o:: 144000 years in the evening twilight.
Thesumofthese=1728000 is the number of years in the
Satya Yuga.
The length ofthe second, or Trlta Yuga, is thus ascer-
tained:
3o00X 360=1080000 years of mortals.
300X 36o= 108000 the morning twilight.
300X 36o= 108000 the evening twilight.
The sum ofthese=I2g(i00o is the number of years in the
Trlta Yuga.
Again, !Ooox360=720000 years of mortals.
200X36o= 7!0oo morning twilight.
200X36o= 72000 evening twilight.
The sum ofthese=864000 is the number of years in the
Dutlpara Yuga.
Again, 1OOOx 36o::36oooo years of mo~·
lOOX 36<>:: 36ooo morning tw~ipt.
100X36o:: 36ooo eveQing ~iligh~
The ~um of these:=632~ is the numbc;r of ~ in the
CO./lY"s'a.
The sum of the number of years iJ.l thae fQur ap,
4,3iO,OOO years, is called a Mah4 Ydga, or an • oflhe
gods ; and the product o~ this multiplied by 10000, is
43iO,ooo,ooo, and expreues the number of years in a
CO./pa or day of Bral&m4.
Of this system, it is obvious to o~~ tllat although
the.Cal{ Ydga seems to be the result ofcalcWatiQDS,madc
according to the foregoing rules, yet in.~~.. ~t ~~ the
basis of the whole ; a conjecture collfi,na~ by the name
of this Yuga, which signifies time, and intimates that it
alone is real: and yet, even this is a fanciful period; for ·
it is itselfdeduced from combinatipna ~ ofaome ofthe
most celebrated eras of antiquity. The ~UJilber of yean
in the three other human ages, b.«<i.ng t)ae result of a reo
peated addition of the C4l{ Yaga; and the other ~
being formed 11om the anoexiqg of cyp)aera to the IWD
of these, or multiplyiJJg this eu~ by n~~ in a decuple
proportion; it may wilb ·great reason be imagined, that
all these Ydgtu, or h~an 11811• 4le IJlellllU1$ w~&ime,
artificially atended to their present e.wtmtOUS ~....If
GLOSSARY.
the Cllristi@ ~ra be suppo1ed to begin in: the ytar of the
worki-4004, the Cali Yugo will have begun in the year
of the world go4,
C'iall4rlli. Th~ are happy spmts orgenii, chieflyemployed
as musicians in the ~~ of l,.dr4. Their~ q de-
~ved £rom a word signifyiag a harp. The ·con!lh, one of
their lnstruoumts, is a shell mUlCh uted in the religious
~leulnitiea at the pagodas. In the Grecian m~.
it is given only t9 Triton, tho a'te~t of N:-ept\Ule, the
~ofthesea;
C~1u. Vi~e Skwu.
Ctl.cil or Co~{la. " The bird of ,w~lllft so_
ng in ludia." -says
Sir W. ,Jones.-The trans~tox ofthe RamaytWJ, calls it
dle Indian c11Ckoo.-C4Udllltl1 the author af the ~a of
&,sconta/4, speaks thus of this \"lird, act 5 : ·" The temale
eoclltu, before theyfly toward the firma~Qent {~te pro.
bably), leave their eggs to be hatc~ed, ~ their yOUJ)g to
·be~ by birds who have ao relation to thesn." Another
.pcl1!it writes, "The cot;i.l bursts into songwhen be aea the
· .bloasoua glisteniug on the lovely Rt~~ala." ~{llJ6ovin­
da. A good description of this bird, so com~tly cele-
brated by the HindU poets, ia much wanted.
Crlfltilm. Viie BrliA~1 al~p.
®.Ana. ~t is a doe&riue received by the ,fka.Wilu W~9 be-
GLOSSARY.
lieve in the Purt!nas, that the deity JTM,ra-4 &equently be-
comes incarnate, or appean on earth in a bodily shape;
and thatthese incarnations or avatarGStake placewhenever
the wickedness of mankind becomes so enormous, astore-
quire correction by the particular interference of heaven.
The number ofthese incarnations is said tohave beennry
~t; for in fact it is believed, that some portion of the
deity is incarnate in the person of every man who becomes
eminent for his wisdom or his power. Of these avatt!rtU,
nine are, however, held to be pre-eminent to all.others;
and a tenth of equal celebrity is yet to come, when Y{sfl..
nu will assume the form of a person named Cdk{, and
punish that depravity, which, before the conclusion of the
present or Cal{ age, is to become univenal. Another
avatara, not included in the number above mentioned,
because not received generally by the Brahm~ns, although
celebrated more than all the other by particular sects, is
that in which Yfshnu is said to have been embodied in
the person of Crishna, a prince born of the royal family
of Mat'hura, in the neighbourhood of Dellti; and who
rendered himself highly renowned by his extensive con-
questS, and also by the many wonderful or miraculous
feats performed by him while he lived in conceal.ment,
and made a part of the family otthe herdsman Nandi. Of
GLOSSARY. 75
these, many are recited from the PurantU, by the British
historian of ancient Hindwt'hdn. One of these miracu-
lous exploits consisted in raising above the waters of an ex-
cessive inundation,·the mountain Goverd'lum, near Mat'-
Aura, for the security of the shepherds, his friends and as-
sociates, and thia he ia aaid to have effected with his little
finger alone. This, like all the rest of the exploits of
err.Ana, is probably an allegory, enigmatically recording
the improvement of the country by the diorine monarch,
. during the early part of his reign, and probably by drain-
age. Crrshna is celebrated by the Hindus, as a perfect
model of youthful grace and ~uty ; and as such, his
praises are sung by the poet Culiddsa, in his poem called
the Gltagav{ndtJ, describin~ the loves of the yGuthful god
and the beautiful Radha, (seeJones's Works, Vol. i.) The
. person of Crl1hna is often etiliibited among the imagea of
the pagodas in the following form. Like most of the
Hindu deities, he is naked to the waist, but his breast is
-adorned with a profusion of jewels, which, made into
short or close, and long or l0011e necklaces, almost wholly
· ·cover the forepart of his body. Jewels also formed into ,
. pendants, adorn his ears, and a three-pointed crown with
stan and rays encircles his head; but sometimes a high·
pointed cap or mitre is given him. Rings are placed upon
GLOIU.BY.
hit IIADII, wailt, and andes, after the favo~ fa&bioa of
tbe .~,, and garlands of flowera hang lpoee !UQI!od
him. A looee mantle,, or ehawl ofgolden tissue, ia ~t
.our ooe eboulder ; and a long Ja1114, or -~ 9£ )ldlow
. musliu, drJCeDds f'rolll ru. waist. Like &naet oC the. ~
deitia, .he has-four anna or rather hands {the NQl 4-om
.each tboulderdividing into two at the elbow), ~Wident,\y an
emblemofpower. Theaehauds beartheringorquoitcalled
theclatJaa, which aeema to have been anciently uaedas a
.weapon in battle, and on this account, became one orthe
peDtatbla or five exercites of the Greeks ; the &IIMctJ. or
amcla, ueed.. a trumpet in the wonhip or the paplaa ;
. the gldtt., or mace, wed by monarchs to punishcrimiaals,
(Menu, chap. ii; v. iii.) probably the origin ofthe ICCplre
ofEuropean royalty ; and the cin~tla, or bat~, lig-
ni6.cative of military prowess. He is seated upoa a low
aeat or sofa, witl1 legs crossed, after the Klllll4 &abioD. It
might-not be •ery difficult, to form very plaulibl. cioqjec-
turell coucerning the hidden meaning of all tJu.e orna-
ments, to whkh the HiRdkl auign very great importmee;
and it may with confidence be affirmed, that were it pGI-
sible topeueuateinto the concealed mysterie,ofthe llra"-
•ln•, -it would be found, that the Crl'1illa ofHif4tlrUf-
.lt4n, like ·th• Horus ofEgypt, is a perao~ification ofthe
GI.OSSAilT.
sun at ibat season. when, in countries Dearly ·bordeting.
upon the tropics, he diffuses, in the beginning ohuiltiber,
lifeand vigour through every partof nature.
C'rollln. The usual dress of a female Hindu, con9ists ·of a
close-fitting vest or boddice, with short sleeyes, and a kind
of shawl, seven or eight yards lQng, and about one wide,
wrapped several times round the waist, and the ends
tirooght over the head and shoulders like a veil. ·Td these
areaddedaYaSharietyofornaments, which render a Hin-
dd lady a verysplendid being; These are almost all men-
tioitl!d in the following passage of th& (}{tag(Jf}{tada,
·(iJonei'a Works, Vol. i.) «Place, 0 son of Ytld' with
fingas cooler than sandal-wood, place a circlet of musk
on thisbreast, which resembles a vase ofconsecratedwater,
crowned with fresh leaves; and 6xed near a vernal bower
to propitiate the god oflove. Place, my darling, the glossy
powder (a preparation ohntimony applied ~ the inside of
the eye-lidS) which would make the blackestbee envi&us,
on tiPs eye ; whose glances are keener·
than llJl'OWII-darted;
by the husband of' Ret{. Fix, 0 aCComplished ybntb,.
the two gems, which form part of love's chain, in these·
ears, wlience the antelopes ofthine' eyes may run down-
wards, and aport at pleasum Place nawa fresh circle of
musk, black as the lunar spots, on the moon army fore-
78 GLOSSAl\Y,
bead, and mix gay flowers.on my tresses, with peacocks'
feathers in graceful order, that tbeJ1 may wave like the
bannen of Cama. Now replace, 0 tender-hearted, the
loose ornaments of my vesture; and refix the golden be&
of my girdle on their destined station, which resemble
those hills, where the ~ with five shafts, who destroyfd
Sambar, keeps his elephant ready for battle."
"While she spake, the heart of Y4dava triumphed,
and, obeying her sportful behesta, he placed musky spoa
on her bosom and forehead, dyed her temples with radiant
hues, and embellished her eyes with additional blackness;
·decked her hair and her neck withfresh garlands, andtied
on her wrists the loosened bracelet, on her ancles the
beamy rings, and rouud her waist, the zone of bells that
sounded with ravishing melody."
Respecting the ornamentsenumerated in these passsgts.
it may be proper to observe, that the Teica or·Teic is an
ornament of gold resting on the forehead above the nose.
and that the " radiant hues" on the temples, Me probably
the marks of cast, drawn upon the forehead; witbout
which, a llindu is always considered en deslzabille. The
practice of wearing garlands of flowers is still f~~eqoent in
India, and probably gave rise to tl1e fancy of representing
flowers and plants upon their·mnslin cloths. Ifreference
GLOSSAJlY, 19
be made to the third chapter ofthe prophetIsaiah, itwill be
seen, that the Hebrew women are charged with gratifying
dteir vanity with the l'le of all the ornaments mentioned
by Jayadha, except that no mention is made of staining
the nails of the fingers and toes with the juice ofLac1ha,
a practice now very common in Asia, where the feet and
bands are not covered with the dress.
CUtie1, or Coolie1,.act as porters.
CU.., or C!Uha. This is a grass named by Linnams, poa
c:ynoeuroides. Its leaves are ve~ long, acutely jagged
downwards, but smooth on theother parts. Their extremi-
ties are sharp and tapering, so as to become proverbial
among the Hiudw, for acuteness of intellect. Its culm or
· stalk rises commonly to about the heightof two feet, and is
·crowned by a panicle or head, often longer than the culm,
and remarkable for its blood-red colour while in ftower.
It is a most beautiful grass, and perhaps owes its sacred
character to this circumstance ; for the Hind.m suppose
every object to ~ animated by a spirit or divinity, and
thoee which are most excellent or remarkable, to be ani-
mated by spirits of the highest orders, or by gods. It
seerna more reasonable to refer the use of the C!Ua in sa,.
crifices, to this circumstance, particularly on ~unt of
the blood-colour of. its flowers, than, with Sir William
80 GLOSSARY.
Jones, to anj reference to Cruk, the father of the m.J4
nee ; though indeed this latter opinion would have bem
very probable:. had itrested on anyother ground than mae
conjecture. Jones's Catalogue of Indian Plants, As. Res.
Vol. iv. and Martyn's Millar's Diet.
Cuvlra. This personage is one of the eight guardian deitieS
of Mttut. He is the Bind' Plutus, butunlike the sordid,
lame, and age-bent miser of the Greeks: he is a YOUII&
beautiful, and magnificent deity, raidin8 in a splendid
palace ; and when h~ travels, he passes through the tkies
in a vtJultUJ, or self-moving car, richly ornamented and
very elegant. Obedient to him, is a tribe of servile D,.
vatas, some pd, and others evil, who are said to have
yellow eyes, and to be well acquainted with aU places,
whether above or beneath the surface of the earth, that
abound with precious metal• and gem-s: This deity il
called in the HiWpadlsa, " the god adorned withthecres-
«nt ;" the emblem probably of increasing fortune; and
in the Institutes it is said, (chap. 7. v. 42.) " by virtuel
and humble behaviour, PritM and Mtntl acquired seve-
reignty, and Cuvlra wealth inestimable:" words, seem-
ingly implying, that he was some mortal distinguished·for
his greatwealth, and on that account deified, and in\rest·
· «l with the character ~the sed of riches.
~
CJJ.OMUY• 8)
.,... A«''lnli~ to the Ill~ of die Bmlnelu, the
JIIIIDher of .upetltaudll ~ is immeme, and ~hnost
infirrite. Titer are cfirided intD a nriety ar orders or
c:t.aes, wkidt it wdificuk to erimnerate with eertrinty
or pm:itiarr. Tiley ~ generally distinguished iato good
e~reril ·&eil!gt, each l:nmm by varioas names"; marling
•errirrtricate ami mitmte dmtinctions, about whieh, the
· ~lo tfreaaehes are not, perhaps, fully agreal Evil
lleings are~ Dwi'Y'", A1mrtu, Rttr!,~umu, ll'lli some
other Dllftlft. Good heing! are Ai.itgtU, (i. e. that may
DOtlleewt off,) liar;,; Tttr!dut1, &e. It seems that these
111m1t11 are ll8llletims applied to human beitrg'!l : thus
lta.iml, trw giganlie tyrant of Ceyll>n, a penon ofgreat
eel!tmty ia the .P'11141cal, o., legeiufs f!li the Bralimhu, is
nid fO bare been a Ra~llrrua; proba&ty, from a suppo-
sitmtt, tllllt melt evil spirits alrimated t~ penoriages.
Wilen eriJ spirits' er (1;0011 spiriU are 111ppotlld to mimate
whole nations, the Brahmlru seem tl7 be m the habit of
aaigning b dte~~r good or bad names ; in the c~ of
wfdcfr, Jtowever, t'heruedetermined' hy meir ~ or
ineliu6uor. ~ .,l!ltr, « oldest aemf boob oE the
.._.,_.., mate-finle-, or mher no rneneil7ft of em' be-
inS' ; and the laaEituta f1f Jt#ln, a worfr oftiiMtmat a
later-erne-, epeai of~ i"Diiieed) and eft8hlly ; ~ ·
G
the Pdrana compositions, certainly of a much law~ 1
are frequent in naming both. Hence, it seeiUI probable, ,
that the doctrine of evil spirits is comparati-t·ely oflate iD- r
vention. This observation applies with great force, to the ,
Persian doctrine, oftwo principles operati11-g in ~ worb
of the creation ; the one gentle and beneficent, ~e ciblf
cruel and malevolent. The S4ctls, or evil beings, ,_.
shipped according to Dr. Buchannan in theDeciUI (J9ur-
ney to the Decan), 11re females, personifications o£ B»
van{ or Durga, in ~r malevolent or destructive character·
])ecan. This word,. ~metimea spelled Dauhia, meaos tht
south, and ia the name of the peninsula,. or southemdit-
trict of India on this side the Ganges. According Ill lito
11u, it is not regarded as part.ofAria Ylrta..or.Hi.a.J·
han Proper. No reason for this is given; but, it maybe
conjectured, that the inhabitants o~ tb.e ~1ca11 did,nol
then ackQowledge theauthority, or perhap, rec;eive thepce-
cepts, of Bra{imens.
Destir~y. The doctrine of the transmigrati.o~ of the r.pul,
that prominent tenet ofPythagoras.and his fijsciplea, :aod
equally inculcated by the Druids of B~~•.very probably '
owed its origin to the speculative fancies o~ the ,8r~
cal philosophen of India. It certainly waa brought ~
thence by the Samian sage, who very ~ba~y ~
·CLOU.Ut.
it from the BrGJ.,.(ru themsch·es. What that doctrine
was, and still is, our countrymen have been enabled w
inform m from authentic documents; the Institutes
of M~•' contain all the rules of the whole system. The
Hi•t/4 legislatute teaches, that the soul is an emanation
from the supreme Bralrmt, who sends it into the world
endued with qualities more or less good, a~ he sees most
fit for the purpose of impl'O\·ement and ad\·ancement, by
trials in various states of existence. To .his end, it is
made to oeoupy the bodies of men and animals, and even
ngetables, acconling to it' desen·ing. If in any particu-
larstate it acquits itself well, it is on death, or separation
from the body it had occupied in that state, appointed to
lnbabit the form of a being of more eln·ated rank: if it
mtuita itself ill, it is degraded, and assigned to a form of
alower order, and even compelled toabide in hell, a place
of'punishment, till by suffering in its" prison-house,!' it
may have atoned·for its errors, become purged of many of
ita impurities, and become fit to be admitted to a more
&wurable, or lesidegraded destiny, and even to be placed
upon earth in a condition or happiness and honour. The
hishat onler of beings, in the state of human existence,
is that ofthe Brel.ltt; and ifsuch a one aequits himself
.wellerhit duties, ~ doet not ineur degradation, he is, at
G'!l
GLOSSARY.
his next birth, a Diva. or god; and such he conlinues for .--..
limited period, if hit vutlltll were of a middli. depe :i
ltut iftheywei'CI bighlyemiaeot.aodap!lCiaDy. iiM~
a pious Yetfl, he oblaiDI •Uti, or 8KtiiMllaAtrdada~
&he heaven of Yuhrerl or Brtd•e; become. U..,..te=d
with the Supreme Be~; exi.U for ner iu.hapP-. amd
aever more returns to dw earth to aperieMe the UQ&blett
oflife, or lo be subjected to the hazard of wmp&Uioa.ad
trials. All the particular rule& of dUa aystem are 411eailed
in the twelfth chapler ofthe load-.. e{ MtW.
D...,. Vide hwa.
],).,,. Vic~. Q-4111111.
D.... Vide BU.VML
»Wva. il tbe ~ 1intaril oC J..iu-. a.-. whole
8owora itt their perfect ...._ ue -.o~~t~* ....._._
jeclts of abe Mp&able w!IIW; .,.na,.......• IP8"
~i.DcP,..like ..U.U.~aad 'RQV'~ila....-ut
~iuaU~e-...tii'IIUaefait. hittM......ml
8\(111' ~ ,..wrefor caW., IDII • ..a,Jlel*-
. - ..J' -~~~~..........IO'Ml . . . . . .el
thaa '*- coap&eacly .....-. ia a._.. - ·
Ha.ce it ~ liHil ......w.. ef ... ·- • .....
bi 1JICiulDC11 aad MIIJ~ ¥1dQIIII ...... il .....
...... ~bcJMv•tM\iawat.........~....
81.08U.IlY.
~t nymph J an opiniem, which the author of the
IDe potm on dle Reetnrationof Learning in the Eut, has
iagenioutly noticed u iUuatrath·e of the allegorical and
pbiloeupllicllmythology ef tlte .Hintldl.
B.rto\, 6/iy, H_,, in IMM'~t, BAtw, BM&, &ltcr, are
aama peculiarly holy, and are repeated at most of tht re-
li8i«*10lemnities, performed ~bly co the direetiona
ef' the YMN. The uni.ene is auppmed co be di'fided into
daeee three diviaioaa, which probablytook their riee from
date tluee divitiona llliiCie by M01t1, of the watera above
the firmameDt, the liriiWilent, aDd the wa~n below the
6rmamellt. See Geaeaie, chap. 1,
AMr.U. Ville Pyre•
.....,..,. Vide IM~Jru.
o-11&. Thil deity is the IIIJD ofS(va, cme of the three per·
10~ of the Kmdtl Triad ; and his wife, or 1l.clf, that
it, hie eftieient power, is the goddess PtJrlltJti. His name
,
implies, that he ill lord of spirits or J(nas, beings who
have obtained an eminent, but not supreme degree ofhap-
piaeel, by the 'f'irtut:s of their fOrmer li:res. Otml1a u
atr:emed the god of whilom ; and u syrabolieal of thi•
86· G:t.OSSARY.•
quality. ht! is represented with the head or the " ·balf-112-
soning elephant," and attended.by a rat, which the Hin-
dus consider as a very sagacious anhnal. Sir Wilmm
Jones is of opi11ion, that Ganlsa is. the Janus ~the ~o­
maus, partly from the resemblance between the two
names, which, according to one .mode of pronunciatiooi
take nearly the same sound ; and partly, from the general
worship generally paid to this deity by the Hind6s, atthe
commencement of almost all their undertakings. ·(Jones
on Deities ofGreece, Italy, and India. As. Res. Vol.i.)
There are, however, good reasons for believiog, that.Ja-
nus was ancien.tly god of an order superior to Ganha,
who holds a place in: only the second rank of Hindu_dei-
ties. That the people may have an opportunity of inter·
ceding for the favour, or rather of a~rting.tl;ie enmity, o{
this deity; representations of his person, usually images
of a very corpulent shape, ar!l placed by !he .sides of the
highways, or in the fields, at the foot of some.lre!l, ready
to receive the adoration of passengers or labourers. Many
of these images are very rude, both as to their form :and
materials. Sometimes the god is represented even by an
upright stake of the Cacay, or Cassia Fistula, a plant pe-
culiarly sacred to Ganlsa. Round this stake, they level
the ground, and purifyit with cow-clung, and then bum
GLOSSARY; s.r:
·-im:ense ariel make offerings of rice~ milk, and the like.
(Buchanan's Journey into Mysore, &c. Vol. i. p. 52;)
~nga. . This word means in·Samcrlt the river, and is giyen
to.many streams in India, alth<lugh the celebrity ofthe
·great stream of Hindust'han seems to have almost exclu-
sively appropriated the name to itself. · Ganga, or :the
Ganges, rises· among the sacred Himalaya mountains,
· whence·i~ is called heaven-born. It enters Hindust'luin,
at a fall from the ·mountains called the Cow's Mouth, on
<~ecount ofsome Hind~ fancies, at a place called Hurdwar,
properly Htr!-dudra, .that is, the.pass of Heri or Vishnu.
From thence, to its effiux into the Bay of Bengal,-: the
length of. its course is calculated to be thirteen hundred
miles. The breadth of the stream, or the channel .(for
the stream is commonly reduced to a fourth part of ita
greatest width in the dry season) is two or three miles;
but in the lower provinces; especially Bengal, it is divided
into numberless chanaels, which intersect that province
in all directions; so that it is difficult to say, which is
properly the channel of the river, or to assign any aver.
age to its breadth. Most of the particulars of the won-
• . .derful annual inundations of the Ganges, have been. no-
ticed in the preceding poem; it may, however, be neces-
ary here to observe, that the.d~pth of.the stream varia
iD aery teUDD; that the ........ ~ to rite whr.D tbe
Hi.ut.ldyar& t!W1n ~Jcsin to melt. aad that the rile i1
~- af&er the - - rau iD J- aad July, wbaa
the ~t ci the.immdation. above the Jewel in &he chy
IIUOO, e:u:eeda, in mPSt p1aca, lbirty filet. 'I'he lower
.pnwiOOCII are then perally covered with a ftood molt
thao a hundred miles broad. In July and Aaguat. the in·
undatioo bcWna ID subside ; and the COWltJy it geuerally
IIIJCO\'ered, and fit for the purpoll!l of~griculture, inOcto-
ber ud Novemoo. In January and February it is dry
and dWity ; in April and May it it bumt up widt heat
• and drought. In moet of ita cirewn~taUCC~, the ~
membla tlte river Nile: but it may be laid to l1ll'p3SS
that river in magnitude and importaDI::e, a mueh u the
Egyptian mer IUrpa.II!&!IIDDit ofthe rinrs in Europe.
Gow. "The kingdom of Goaw, or Gowr, aooimtly included ,
all the countrieswhich now form the kill!domofBllffg41,
oa thi• tide the Bram.4 PUJFa, uceptltbf~P'." (Mau-
rice An. Hilt. Hind. B. 3. ch. 6.)
lhlltrdMn. A mountain in Mat'Miro. It is the ParDIIIIus,
er poetic mount, of the HiadB•, and ;. fabled to have been
r~ by a single d'art of Crrdaa'• little fiar,u. (BM-
JaNia~U..)
&..~.. Vide Nwplia.IJWe.
GLOiiAJll'.
Ben. Uad.er this oame, the divine CrbiM, •..-Er11
or iacanWioo oC Vuhmi, is celebral'ed by the poet Jflga-
tlifla in the Git~, a poem ~ froal the
SaJUCrll by Sir William. Jones. (A.. &a. BAJM. is
described as the beautiful mistress of H•l• aad their
loves are painted with the liveliest colouring; i11 101M
pub, ays the traDBJator. lloO warmly for an Ewopean
eye ; and those parts, he bas therefore, from moUv111 o£
delicKy, forborne to commit toE~. ~otwitbatand­
ing this circiUII.ICianCe, the poem is esteemed by the Hin-
d!U as devoudy religioos, and is conseq_uentlyvery far from
exciting in them any loose ideas. The 111ne may .Jmoet
be aaid of the Song of Solomon in our S~Wred ltriptares;
which, though abounding with ~ which the Jews
contidered as improper to be oi'ered to veryyouthful read..
en, has yet been aupposed, and seemingly with great
propriety,, to be prophetically allusive to the Christian
church. The dissertation o£ the learned Jones, on the
mystical poetry of the HiladU, shows, moet clearly, that
a kind of allegory, which conveys under a garb even li.
eeotious, the most sacred meaning~, is, aod loog has
been, very familiar to the Asiatics. Apably to this
system, the loves of Her{and Rl.dlw. may (Iince Cr~.\no
is coofaaedly a personification of the IWI6 o.t rather vital
90' GLOSSARY.'
heat) be considered as signifying the effects prOduced 'by
the principle of life acLing upon productive nature; or, as
other more profound and mystic Asiatic interpreters would
perhaps explain it, the operation of the divinl! spirit upon
the minds ofdevout persons.
Binlola, Hit~~aldya, are the names by which that part of
theTauric range of mountains, which forms the mostim·
passable barrier to the north of Ilindust'lu£n, is distin·
guished in Samcr~t writings. These names are derived
from the words Malaya, which signifies a hilly district,
and luJimtU, meaning snowy, (Vide Jones's Preface ID
hymn to Pracrrti) au tpilhet highly proper: for al·
though they reach so low as thirty degrets of latitude;
ihey are n~er wholly free from snow: a circumstance
which renders the idea of snow familiar to the HindU,.
The authOr of the Indian Recreations gives the following
interesting account of them, as ~n from .A.nopsMr, a
military station of the Company's troops in the province
'Of D~lhi. " After about ten days rainy weather, we have
a-retum.ofthe north-wind, with a clear sky. The moun·
-tains to the nerth-east appear unusually plain. ·Their·dis·
tance is called two hutidred miles, and the nearer ridge are
here entirely unseen. Their appearance is exactly that
of snowy clouds towering t6 an imweJllle height -in the
--
GLOSSARY; 91:
skies. It would seem, that Enropeanshad not sufficie11tly
ascertained the height of the Thihetian' mountains. T-hey
•
are situated in the centre of the largest contilitnt in:the
world, and are probably the highest mountains· upon its
surface. Teneriffe, which I have seen," and which ·has
the reputation of being the highest land in the old Con-
tinent, would not be at all visible at the distance ofthese
mountains, which e\"en here seem to soar abo,·e •the
clouds. They are eternally covered with snoW ; and when
the wind blows from their direction, the weather, to.our
feelings, is.much colder than in Britain." (lnd~ Rec". ;vol.
ii. aect. 43.) The Brahmenical mythology represents,
with peculiar propriety, Bhavdn{as the daughter of these
mountains; since the greater part of the waters, which
render Nature effectively productive in·Hindwt'lul.n, issue
.from among them. .l
Jndras and Dewtahs. According to the doctrines taught by
the Braltmens, e\·ery created object, whether animate
or inanimate, or rather, as they make the distinction,
every thing, whether it does or does not possess"the pOwer
of motion, is governed, or rather owes its existence tO the
~gency ofa ruling or animating spirit. They consequently
maintain, there are at least as many divine er super-bu.
man personages, as there are di.sti.uctot \.u~\.~~~~<:ro)o:J:."-~
91 GLOIIAR'I'o
ud eoa-.lltlldy, their nwnber ia almost infinite. AD
enUIDOl'Uion of the 4i.lferem kincla or arden of tbelebf.
inp. may be eeeo in lhe tenth Lecture of the Q{ta. AI·
thougb. the character~ of tbele beings partake of all
&be ahade. of nriety, from the ~lence of the Great
Supreme God, to the utmost male.olmceawl clepraYityof
the clemons of Nr~r4c., or bdl ; yet, they are perally
diatioguilbed iniO ~ and ml apiritt, deDIIIDinaiM Su·
,..,, or Ammu; .tf.d{'fu, or Dityu J Y..A.u aud Rae·
litru, or &allluu, aa:otdingiO particular cinnamstances,
•bicll it it difficult, IUid perbapl not IHICellarJ i.a • ge-
..... accowu of them, to learn or recite. Amoog these
tpiritt, or IUpet•bWOUI beinp, Cor they are DOt 19'holly
immaterial, the /Ndnu, as their name impliea. are aw:h
I
aa ue under the government or COIIUD&od ofI..,and
may be termed Genii of "the air. The Dftllldl, or
Dlvatalll, are of an order inferior to the Dhru, pro-
POUDCellalao in &he varioua dialects of India, Diba, Dd,
and IHo, which ia a specific name, says the translaiDr of
&be Gila, compri&ing many ofthe his}ler orden ofdivine
beinp. The mythological system of tlte BtaMJJru it
purelJ allesorical; it ia therefore with peculiar popriety,
the Geaii ofthe air and earth are aid to owe their orio
'sin to Blw.f4a{, tlae Gocldee of Natun.
ar.osu.aT.
C.acskmi, is the Goddess of Plenty, and is the •acl{ or wife,
that is, the efficient power, ofthe protector YulmW. She
is known al80 by the namesofPldma and Cu;!U4, iD al-
lusion to the holy and increasing Lotos. Sr{, or SrV, is:
another ofher names, which naturally leads to the eon-
jecture, that she is the same IS Ceres, meLatin GoGless
of Plentr. Sr1, or Lac.rkmi, is feigned to have sprung
from the ocean, when churned by the Sli.ru and ~r41
with the mountain Mandara; and this legend favou.n the
opinion, that this operalio&l is figu.rative of awicul.tural
ilnprovemen~ effected, most probably, by dtain•; and
h~hly conducive to the fertility ofsome country, perhaps
Ben&4l. There seem! great propriety, in maki.Dg IAWtm{
the wife of YuW ; ~ protecilim and aecurity ue na-
turally comlucive to fextility ~ abu.DdaDce.
WJos. Thii plant it. ofthegreatl:st cele~ity amoug ~ m~
clli. awl is boaoured wi:ili a variety of Dame~ ml4ftlcrrt
wri~ ofwhich ~a is moll C4Diii.GIIII.y ullld. It i.
U\at tpecia of the oymplwiea. w VlllW~I»y, di&tiapilhed
\.y da& epitlwtlaw.; theugh SirWilliamJoa....,.. the-
._ lot'll ef Egypa i& lhe nympNa. Ni.liftr. ow tlae lllue
a)IDlllbM.whic~ lilowever,~e~~Moalyaftliaty. {Aa.Bes.
Vol. i.) The.-. Gltbi1t plaatcreep aioas t.M ~or
W.ecri_.; ._,.,.~allll.pu&._. lliMiawith .
GLOSSARY;
long tubular petioles ascending to the top ofthe water, and ·
increasing in length as the waters deepen, so as to allo"
the leaves to Aoat upon the surface. The leaves are heart·
shaped, targeted, slightly waved, from four to twelve
inches long, of a greenish purple, lighter underneath, de·
fending the Rower which grows from thecentre. Flowers
large as the palm ofthe hand, uf a tulip-like form; petals
fifteen, ratherpointed and keeled; the outerseemsgreenish,
the inner beautifully azure ; when full-blown, ·often ofa
rose-colour, sometimes white or yellow; delicately fra·
grant, especially the rose-coloured ·v~riety : stamens forty,
or many more; germ of the pistil, inversely bell-shaped
or hemispherical, with sixteen or seventeen cells, contain·
ing seeds halfan inch long, with a·rind black and smooth;
when ripe, ofa taste finer than almonds. These often ve·
getate in the germ, and swelling, at length they burst 'out
in a state considerably grown, and sink to the bOttom
·of the water with roots already formed; a~d thus their in·
crease is very quick, and, when undisturbed, they soon
cover the surface of-the water.· From· the groWth of the
seed in the seed-vessel, which renders the planta mitlble
·emblem of that. successive production of·created beings
·taught in the St!.strtu ; or from the legend; that:B'raftm4,
··anhe creation, was·supported upon the primal'-waters by
OLO&SARY.
the leaf of lotos ; his plant is esteemed most sacred, and
therefore highly celebrated in all religious writings; and
as the Hindu consider a slender pliability of. form in the
human person1 the most beautiful, they constantly·sig-
nify whatever they esteem most elegant, by comparing it
to, or even calling it by the name of, the pedma or lotos.
HahU Ddva. 'fhis name means the great God, a title \vllich
the sect, worshipping Siva, gives to .their favourite d.;ity,
andis almost peculiar to him, although refused to him by
the other sects. MaM Ddva is known by a yariety of
names, of which Sfva, meaningthe Destroyer, is the n;JOSt
commonly used. This god is one of the personages o(the
celebrated Hindu Triad, so oftenconsidered as a proof,
that the notion of a trinity has been received by the Brah-
mdm from the earliest antiquity. But ·this Triad of the
Hindu, seems not to bear any. proper. analogy to the
Christian Trinity, because the three personages ofwhich
it is composed, are all created deities ; and of an order
confessedly inferior to. the supreme Brahmd, the first
great cause ofall things. This Triad is commonly called
in Sanscr~t, theTdmur#, ~at is, the three forms; ln4:3D•
1. ing tl1e three stages through which all created beings pass.
1: The name of the first of these penouages is.Brahm.~, the
penenifieatioa elthe nr.ati..epowoer;tlilel!iC'OOilis """"'·
a pcnooificaticm or the Jl"*!"'ing powet'. ... the tllini
is Sfrla, the per-;&cation ef the de!vocai-,e pe._.. TIM
Brs,_lru bdine the llomioeofthe tranemigratieftMtht
emd, and cerueqaemly death il CGMideretl fiMy 1111 tht
pause to a Dew &tate fll nHteoce; flenee, SiN theDe
atroyer i~ considered only as the reproducer, or the autho
fllnew life: he hmn, tllenleft, a clewble, ..tia lflllll
...,.., all oppaMe eharaeter ; IIJid ~- t9 thoeo
ellaraeten, he i&---...-n.,....~ aad ter·
riWe; at othen, as deligbttally eplendid ad ~Amlt
BIN itlite lraltJalut ofBlttmhl, « the exeitiog - o
eperiding N.tare ; a tpality lfpificd t,. ..an-~Is.
11111ong whieb tile hoi, the IM!8Ill olthe ........li..zes
ultire cow, is cme; ..tlhe ~ .. a malle -'*- o
JlPildaetion • s-a~·· lo- the 1lnllllla .till. :Ro~o~
•• to liedeserihed,.. it •odler, atul by fiiJ tlae - eel~
hiatal, lleinspllnd ia the prilleipl.llhrineof..-elth1
temple.orHi•, ....wont as t'he ineis-e eta ,, b]
the8fe*r Pll" .,r Iris maries. 'ntit pracW. wlbeh i1
tJy• - e.ahed to the-re-••.....,.appean
•B..,_...,_DIINfin.._, aocJ lilreJy e ~ pi'Oo
4adireolth ~ irmwalitia. HaiJit, hewaet, ill
a,-~ ,.......tllel£wrMhataMaliiiJUstucll
GLOIIA.ft.
llpin;..., • ._ npnmeibg 1U1J 'Ill~ <t&ct; ttr· the
lliatlU ue aot ~ of ~bd habits, 11t ~east
they may shame too mmy of iheir E'GfO!I'BII ~.
who lead a Ide a licentiousness in despi&e ofChristian
deceneiea IIDII(;briatim principtee.
Uya. Thia word is 1IMd to deaigna~ any hily traet, bot
iJ more parti-rly llftllied to the westem sbetes of the
lkc4ra, called MtdtSINzr, Utat is, the blty clietriet. The
&agrmce C!lllbmwicated to tlte air, by the many·eromatie
plnn&l of thia eamtry, is th01 meatic~Ded by the poet
JlgadJDa. " The gale that 8 wutootd ICIIURd the
beau&UulclGM plaou, ltreatha.,., from the billnfMa-
~~" aod apin, "A sweet breeze from a billa lflf'Ma-
ctra c:oma wafting on IWs plllllles the yeung p -of De-
ire." GltGfDf1ifflla.
rMa is a Aantie .AIWHI, er ~~ aprit, haiag tbe bead
IClhOI'DII ofaa ea.. He isaid tohaftfeagllt with fHrga,
d.w bate been drilatei eyher. (A.a. Ba. Vol.nit. No.
His DlliM i.a .S...trl't., illld lneuls OrealNtllun. It ia
enioualy mentiened in the tnct jlllft .-tioned, lhat as
'US was repraemed ia the Egyptiaa tempts ..-,king
lllayiog the H.potamws or mer kiJse, as im ·em-
\vf\bo pllWet of tJae -.in d~1he 'fvaberl of the
, 10 the oonteet of Dlrga widl tbil ..-.;... ~
\\
8LOIU&T,
the powers of Nature IIIIYiving the iaundatious or the ~
Gauges; a conjecture confirmed by a variety of cimJm. 11
stances connected with this legend.
Mandiira. This is one of the mountains esteemed SIICftlll bJ
the Hindds, and, like their other sacred mounlains, isooe
of the HiMal4ya ridge on the north ofHiridwlt'htlrl. ItcJe.
rives its celebrity, from having beenneed, according tothe If
HillllN legends, by the ~dru and S-ha, and good or
evil genii, or spirits, to churn the ocean for obtaininglhc
A.~ta, or liquor of immortality. The }larticolanofthis
tranaaction, are given in an episode to the HirtlM epic
poem c:a.lled the Mtllul.bar4t, or great Birttld war; mla
translation of it may be seen in a note to the Ga. by lhc
learned Wilkins. The whole of this description, will
probably appear to the European reader, to be a ridiCIIo
loua farrago of fables : a more intimate acquaiatanee with .
the writings ofthe Sastras willnsgest the idea, that the
whole is an allesorical account of aome mighty undertak·
ing, carried on by the united efforts of lle'Veral natiODI
figured under the names of Surd1 or A1rhtu, aided bJ
Jndra or the air, to drain and cultivate the COUDtries in
which they lived; and that the wholesome prOduee of im·
proved pasturage .and igriculture, it the real.d.~la ill-
tended by the~· The uame ila compound ofnro
Ot..OSSAa'lr..
&111~1 worda, ·-It) water, and dara, to pierce; and
indicates the manner of its use, which was the same as
that still practised in the Hindu dairies to chum their
milk in making gM, or butter. This is by turning round
the dasher with a rope or thong, while its stem is kept in
an upright position. Vide Buchanan's Journey.
illuntriJ. The Yeda1 consist of sentences which are distin-
guished by the names of Mantra or BrGirmana. The lat-
ter IU1! moral precepts, the former prayers and invocations
of the gods. Particularpowers, orefficacies, are attributed
ttl Mantra~ when duly recited, similar to thoee some.
.times ascribed to· magical incantations; on this account.
the manner of reciting a fiiUntra is esteemed ofmuch more
importance than an acquaintance with its meaning. Si-
milar opinions were formerly entertained in Europe, and
are said, by the author of the Lay of the Last Minstrel,
to have been kno'Wn to the wizard Michael Scott. They
are alluded to in the followinglines :
-Warrior, I rould .ay to thee
The words that cleft Eildon hiUa in three,
And bridled the Tweed with a curb ofotooe.
• • • • • • • • • • • • •
The warda D~ay not again be said ;
They woold rend thia abbayea musy na,..,,
Audpile it in heap above his grave.
Hi
CANTO !1. § 13, 14.
100 GI.OSSAR'f.
Theae &mciea l«<lll to have been fGuodell on the Wie(,
that the deity beeomca peculiarly preeot wheo llldftaed
in prayer; audit ICeiDI to be a natural COD&eqomce oltbe
HirulM doctrine, that the deitia become abeolutely pre-
. tent when duly invited by rita aacl!MIIlPcu; IIIIi that
10111e ofthese melllru ue able to c:ompel them. wbeuin·
voked, to enter into, and abide in a statue, ora rudellOoe,
or even a ve88el of water duly prepuell; and tbie ia C'fi.
dently the principle on whi.ah the eiic:acy o{ ldy wall:!
must be auppoeed to depeod.
Jlerriage•. Vide NW~Iial Bolle.
Jlldye. This personage -, p!apCI'ly be C08Iidtred • aper·
sosaificatiClO of the powen of imasinabaa; « Iince. »
cordins to some HffHIU pbiloeophen. ~-hateYs aiata.es·
ists not in reality. but &Dly in a tya&em or pe..,uons.
wholly dependent upon imagination ; and. CODallll•dy,
a11 things may be aaid • be IJdUlmsbot ---. • ""
ther illusion. Thil doc&riue. ia propaoacW • fiUDws
in the BhagatUa Pw4a. .. Ezcept UM: Ftrll c:a1111:
(Brehme), whatever may .appear, or...,110t appear in
the mind, know that it is the mind'a Maya, or delusion,
u light and darkness." Sir William Jooea philoeophi-
eally explaillll \be won11J4.4ya. • "imtDdiaca system of
perceptions ofeither primarroreecondary .-Jitiea, which
8J.OIUBY. 101
• drity il belimd. by tome philolophen llld pious aaen,
.raile by his omnipreaeot spirit iD tbe mioaa ofhia crea-
.._ ; which pereepeioas, however, 11M not any esistenee
.dependent or mind." This doctriDe ie beautifully illus-
ltld bJ the fullowiJI8 pasage i11 tbe priae poem or
harlel Grant, Elq. OD the .ubjec:t of the lWt.onWon of-
lllll'll~ iD the East; a ~· which the aathor
·this work ClUOtlll with pleuure, thQugh be iiiiDiiblc
te eomparilon mlllt be unfavourable to his own peetry.
Ask the poor Hindd if matl!rial thinp
Lilt? He answers, 'fbeir edatt!oce tprinp
Ptolll m!Ddwithin tbat prompll, proteeta, provides,
And moulda their beauties Ill' their tenon gaides-
'Biooml the Jed flotrrtt ? DflrH bllllbee there.
FIMh ~ lilllft? D~ead /rtJ.ra &Ill tlut air.
The morai11fJ....., or high the whitewaft swill;
n.. ,bripte.., Gap dlil ialpeu..
'I'h.la . .part ol dlia----.
He 01r111 tlat mUter Nita oa lllillcl - :
. And iD each ol;ect tiewl-e pi portn.fd;.
nilall iD Ill, and that but cmptJ .a.de.
~The miDd extiDct, the aJ.don too-t lee,
And all this Yisible forget to be:
101
from the imagination, the Hi'lllld mytbolosJYS'f illpi·
ously speaks of M4ya as the mothel' of Qf,.., or the~­
rent of love. In this reapect, we may perhaps, with the
PurdM, consider Mdga as Deluaioo.
Mm. Accoiding to the Pml11tu, Mm is a mountain n..
ing in the midst of Ja•budwlpa, or the habitable warld,
to the height of84,000 yoj4~. each yojtlu beinsabout
nine mila. Different ltUirtU vary in theiraccouaaofita
form ; some describin~ it as a pyramid or cone qverttd,
others, as standing on its base. This latter op~n is
adopted by Sir William Jones, who, in his ~tise on
the Hindu zodiac, gives a repraentation of Mn ac·
cording to this latter form. But whichever.be the form
adopted, it is agreed that this mountain is the abode of
beatified spirits, and that the metropolis .A.I!lr~ptUi, a city
on its summit, ia built of gold and gema. In, or around
it, are the gardens ofNtJndtJIItJ; where goodaDd virtu0111
persons abide after death, under the gvrentmeatof fndra,
and in the enjoyment of the most exquisite plealores, for
a period proportioned to the degree of virtue attained by
each, in the preceding state ofhis aisteoce. When this
period apira, it is taughi, that each peno'n returBa again
to tbis earth, and undergoes new trials of Jail 'rirtue aud
ebedience. The p1.tauta ofA.!rmw4N. aredli.sJofthe
GLOSUB.Y, 10.1
seniual kind, comisting of continued festivities, to.which ·
the beautiful nymphs called Apsfirtu, (the HI1UruofMa-
homet) and the skilful musicians and singers called Cin-
ltartu and Gandltarvtu, principally contribute. The le-
gendary allegories concerningthis mountain further relate,
that a river issuing from the head of Vuknu, or the feet 0£
Siva, for such arethe difl'e~ntallegories ofdifferent e«:u'!-
' .
flows into a lake on the top of Mer-U, from which issue
four rivers, each taking a course directed toward the se-
veral quarters·of the habitable world. In tbia respect,
Mn bears some resemblance to what the Hebrew histo-
rian writes concerning Paradise, or the Garden o( Eden.
The frequent pilgrimages of Hir~du devotees into the
mountainous.diatrictJJ on the north of Hinddst'lula, and
some other circumstances, nre favowable.to the conjec-
ture, that, by Meru is to be uiuleratoodthe Paradise ofour
Scriptures; andthat themountain• ofBoclulramay besaid
to atrord atronger evidences ofhaviog been the real Eden,
than any cKher apot in the world. Thia idea may possi-
bly receive additionalaupport, from a farther investigation
of&rumt liiuatve. The Met"U signifies, in that Ian-
pap. asia or piwt; whence some Europeani have sup-
fll*d, that .J&r8 ia the north pole of the earth; an opi-
nion which the .F'Jellch phibophilwllrooolner Bailli
wouJd lind favourable to his poaiuon, \\w. \\a l.\.\:)~'t,~
·~- were eoce the ..._ of firillt, a _..L
Othem ap. mai•taiA, tltat Jlmf~..,.mit& It
~eM~ ....maltle• ~ thali achopiaion finds ill
adncata ~ the variutis secta eEpltibo....aad re·
li,;-., with whieh Indiaabxmdl.
.,.J~•.t Tile _,_.aithe Gltr& writa. (Uet. •·> ...A IIWI
~ . ...... b8 ceaar.ed: mwildora,. wbm he r-deth
everytfaillewhidlmteretainiD hil.baa, .-.oflrimself
abappraocl IOilEtea iD bi!lllldf. Hia miacl is. andis-
turbe4i ia adveJidr;· he is happy U1llceot.rattll in pro-
spent,, md.be is• stmugu tO umiety. fear. IIDilqer.
S'uch.111-. man iuau.taMdlli'." H..:e, dris diane-
tv: meeble. iliat of those ~~~e~~,. wac- t8e Greeks dis-
' tiupisbed· IJr t8e DliUie e£: JiUIO&Opbaa. The JIU{iJ
lib dla plailoeopber whom the poet Horace 4ac:J:ibes as
''- 'Eotus iD ee kra atque retundus,''. (Hioi'IIDC, Lib. 2.
S... 'J} " ooo wOolly IDDOCilh Ulid rCIUJid,widUu himlclf."
Jr~ The »•'!#• or B~ gifdle, ii.ClDIDpeeed of
the Jld'!if', w culm ol dre Stkt~, or jasie plant, -the
iiii:Charnmspoaa-wn efLiDD--,_fllrmed-iatw.atriple
ecnd•- Tbis U.of.sll8R. impor.tanct1 ia tile.ctr. of a Jeii..
!i_.~ that Ylfl'j pubcal8rUecaODirJI'Ifl'!"'n&the
J~JUeliala.flf wllidl it eusbtto be~ . . .in
abc.,.. <•Mm~ ..... 11;- ~
~ va..,mta.
8J.OIUaY. 101
Naellu!t,a. The iaterpletatiOD eftlais watd.meua, aaord..
ill! to tbe lmmed tlaullator of tlae cu., " the apellen
of dar~:" it ia ~en to the ei@ltteen cooit,ella&iODt
th~ which themoon paaeesin itaiiiOQahlyeaane, aud
isalso used to signify CODStellatiom iu geueral, or llily o(
the he&Tally bodis, and especially the moon. (flltG,
Lect. 10, aud Nolle 61.) Aa thae bodies waeiUppbled
w.be infonaed or animated by spirits ofa. VC't'f emiDeat
onler, daey became the oljects ofworabip ,; notprimarily,
or ae being stars or heavenly bodiet. bm aa beiag 10 ani.
mated. The antiquityofdte worship oft.heNac,...._, is
certain?·.eiy grea4 bu& they lDCIIt. auwedly '"" a.t. d.
fiJJt oljects ofaaleraiion amons idolate~a F.ire-p10ba.
bly the·fi~ DeXt J.isht, as the suppoaed eft'eet of ire, and
then the IUD aodstan, as the suppoled abodea oflisht· It
abeuld seem to have beea imagined, that the ..._apirit
might poaibly inbm or animate a nmober of c::omigu..
,_ .~ whiek, being parcelled out aceordins to the
6mc:.J of idolam- astronomen, JI'OCluced the COiist.ella.
U.. ofthe Grecian sphere; thole •trail&" and wbimeical
im.ioO.o£1be beawna, to which Cbriaian •uonemen·
atil1 ~ certainly rather from habit than ~·
N1'pi1 the u.ae comm,..ly s"mia &uml to thahoode4
IIDplllt, • .... Clpel1a. the JDDit pWneaa •fall the
106 GLOSSAaY.
werpent tribe in Asia. The name ~aft~, however, todif.
tinguiab eerpenta having only one head, while thme with
many beads are known by the name of Urdgt~. As none
of these Ur4gtu are known in nature, it may bepresumed
that they are the creatures of allegory, which, indeed,
hu greatly exlnded the acale of crea&ed beinss in India.
Only one ofthese Un£gu has been familiar to the west·
ern world, the celebrated Hydra, slain after a difticult
conflict, by the mighty Hercules. It is a curious fact,
that in the south ofEngland, or at 1~ in the tounty o£
Suaaex, a snake is called a Nag·UJIII'fll,
NagtirG, is the luge or doublo-drum uled in India.
NuptW.l Rohe. It hu been already obRrved, that marriage
is a sacramentwith the Hindus, u with tbe Roman Ca·
tbolics ; and the rules relating to it, show, that theycon-
aider itas of the first importance. According to the p~e­
aent practice in India, the first overtures for rnarri.age ue
usually made by the friends of the female, which eeems
to be thecomequeuce ofthe law ofMma (chap. g. v.88.)
where it is declared, that unless the father 6nd a suitable
• match for his daughter within.three years after me may
ba-veattained to theproperage, which iscolllJilODlyateight
• years, be loses the power ofdispoaing ofher in JParriaae,
...,. .with.tlut·.power, &tJ,s.right of c:laimioi.~- ·IUDl
GLOSSARY. lf11
uaually givesa by the bridegroom, as a price for bia bride.
It is very necessary, that.this duty be e.oforced by eome
penalties, or it.might be often neglected ; since the se-
J.Uon ofa proper husband for a daughter, is attendedwith
a variety of difficulties arising from observances. rapec:t·
ing class, affinity, consanguinity, personal qualitiea1 and
moral and religious character. These and other similar
matters having been duly considered, it next becomes a
point !lf no little interest, to select a lucky day for the
commencement of the nuptial ceremonies ; and for this
purpose, the astrologer is anxiously cooaulted, and he.bas
recourse to all the subtilties of his ut, to aacenain a pro.
per day for the solemnities. On that day, the.bridegroom
proceeds to the house of the bride's father, who prepares
for his reception with all the rites belonging to the aacra.
ment of men, or of religious hospitality. A II8Ciifice ia
fint offered, a seat for the. guest prepared, and a cow ia
tied in or near the apartments where he.is to be received;
a circum1tance seemingly intimating; that anciently the
.cow wascut upand eateri, perhaps alive, after tlle manner
of eome feasts at.ill practised in Abyssinia. Thia cerempny
thus finished, the rites properly nuptial Jleltt commeace.
The intended bride having been bathed, aDd .uocJer&one
..IGIDe preparatory ceremonies, with .prayeo .01 holy ~ta
lOll eLOIIA&Y.
iepeatecl ill prime, ia inaecluced ; IDil beiDg lea 1D the
bridegioam and h• right haod pUced iD hil, they m
boOIId together with 101M blldeaofthe SICI'ed dM 81111,
amid the IOUDCl ofcheerfuliDUiic. 'I'beJ thm w.Jit~
dna uniaed, eridently for the purpcliB ofpablicly dedar-
instheir1lDiaa, .ad then mire iato - UiDer IOOD1 ofthe
hau.e. Here m allar ia prepared -.rith tho UIUiltoltm-
Ditia 1 Y8rioua oblatiool are o&imld, and ...no..c:aemo-
Diel AN performed, indicative either ol the clutia of the
married atate, or figuratively espreuift ofgood wiaheltor
the bappioe. .ad proeperity of the married couple.
AIDOII8 other cuatomt, 1bo bride ia clad iD a uew gar·
mmt, beloagiog to the bJ'idesloom, and the akinl of
their mantlea are tied together iD a knot; and thil, with
the ligature of~ grasa abcwe mentioned, are actual R-
pmentations of the bancla of wedlock, and the DJ&rriaAe
knot, which among ounelves are kaown only u fisara·
tift espreaions. Tbeee espre~~iona may, bcnre.er, very
reasonably be eonaidered u the remain• of anciaat ~
(aimilar to thoee detcribed by the Huulrt Sadrtll), pnc·
tiaed and obeerved by our anceators. Aier thia, die bride
1tep1aevea 1tep1 into aevea.conceotric eire~ ·awy at
.....recited at 8ftlJ Rep, and the IDIIrilge ia &baa eODl•
......;... irmueable. W'IMD tbele ..... &ailbecl,
..
.· '
:'.~ -~
GLOSSA.aT.
tbe eompany depart, and the new-married pair ll1'll left in
the c0111pauy of their nearer relations, wbo continue the
performaac:e 0{ceremonies similar in form and import to
those performed amid the more public assembly orneigh-
boon and friends. These continue for three days, during
which tiine, the married pair continue in the house orthe
bride's £adler, and live abstemiously and chastely; at the
coocluaioa of the fourth day, the bride is conveyed to the
laouse ofthe bridegroom~ umally attended by a lang train
of friends, and with U mtlCb splendour and mow, as the
eircumttmces of the parties will allow. On arrmng at
bia boule, Mime o£ the former ceremonies are repeated,
with othen aignificative of attachment ~ fidelity. An
jpfantil placed i:n the arms o£the wife, to remind her of
the dutia ofa mother. With this, the whole of the ce-
remony tenninatea, which, it may be said, eonsists of
rita aignificant oftbe geuen} Jl'II1'P*I ofwedlock, and
coodaelled throughout, lll ... at least, as the rules or the
Stutrm aa ollllerved, with.tke pta& cleceACy and de-
c:orum.
dM. M.A writa (chap. J. 76.), "BmlatJal milked ant, aa
i& were, from the three Wtltu, t~ letter A, theletter U,
aac1 the letter :Y; whick.ronaby ooaliaieo.tile tri-literal
ue 8LOIU&T.
DlODCJIYllable" .Au•, proDOlldCellu though. it wae ipdltd
.. 6M. This moooeyllable, MeatS declares. in a subae-
quent vene, (v. 84.) to be" the symboloCGod, theLord
or created beings." Each or the three compound lettt.n
bas ita myaterioua signilicatioo. The fin& denotes BrcJ.4,
the aecond J'i•lu•u, and the thinl S{va. This syllable is
never pronounced by the m;,a.u, escept iuawlibly, or as
- it were inwardly, an4 never without much 10lemn pre-
paration. "If," aaya Mmtf Cch. ~. v. 75.) "be ban
Iitten on culms or ctfla, with their points towards the
eut, and be purified by rubbing that holy graa in both
.hit hand&, and be further prepared by thm: snppreuiont
ofbreath, he may then fitly pronounce bM." Whether
.thi• Indian ~onosyllable be the same u the Egyptian
0 N, 'lll(ill be inquired perhaps, rather rrom the near reo
temblance, Ulan &om any poei.tive aqthority. It il, how·
ever, rendered in some degree probable, by the circum·
stance that 0 N wu significative or the snn, and the-
sun
originally aignified the author or heat awl light and life•
..
Para Brak•a. Vide Brak•a.
/'atu, is a city oC the province or Allahabad, 11ituate on the
Ganga. Anciently the S8ne joined the river Ganges at
this place, but aow: at Mrmeah, .a towD eigbeeen :-miles
GLOS&AaT, Ill
higher up that river. This change is owing to tile action
ofthe waters on the very light soil, of which the greater
. part ofthe tracts ofcountry contiguousto theGanges con~
aist : for these conntries, and especially Belulr and Bmg4-
la, .being extremely flat, and the stream at all times, par-
ticularly d11ring the inundation, very l'llpid, changes in
the channel are continually takin& place ; and these con-
tinued changes are so great, that the geographer Rennel,
in his MC!Illoir on the Ganges, conjectures, with nerj
appearance of probability and truth, that the whole of
th~ soil of Bmg414 has been, at dift'erent timea; removed
by the action ofthe waters.
Ptw4na il one of the eigh• guardian deities : be presides over
tbe winds, and aa such, is deemed the chief minister of
J,J,a, the god ofthe air. He is feigued, in an i~ioua
allegory, to ride furiously along the heaftDI onthebaek of
an antelope, brandishing a acymeter gleaming like light-
ning. His inferior genii, or ministeri, ce caHed Ml-
r4ts.
Ptartl. These are a sort otfootmen attending persons of
rank in India. The word means a meeeenger.
Pitulara and &lulgepdr, are mountainom diatricts in the
protiDce of .AIWtabatl.
p;p,.l. ThefiCIII rtligiosa. Vide J'4ttl. The rules orthe
lli QLOSU&Y,
.MIT& are very particular rapecting the 1taft", from apu·
IUIIioo, that a proper atai" baagreat e8icacy in coatnlllin&
and driringaway nihpirita. (Vide.M~ ch.5r.v. 45,1cc.)
To the vut power the atai" ia auppoeei to have in drivioc
away evilspirita, according to tbe old European aystemo£
Demonology, each conjuror or magiciaD holds a thin
1tafl'or wand when he cxen:iaea hia art; evideDtly f« the
aamc reuoo.
Pyr•. The Hi•IU funeral& are atte:Ddell &DII £ollowal b1.._
JemDitiee, ea&eemed the 11101timpcmantofany in their riblo
al; and 10 ISICI\tial to the bappinaaoftheclepanecl p111011o
that it is considered the greatest miafortwe to be dealitull
ofa aoo or adopted heir, who may duly perform tbae.illo
portant rites.-When the sick penon is abou.t to cUe. be
ia carried from his houae to the aide of liOIIIle taulr, or
river, ifpouible the Gaogea; he i1 sprinkled with wal6,
and receives a kind of extreme DDCtioo with the mud.
When dead, the corpe is wuhed, anointed. with.oila and
perfumes, and after some pieces of gold have beep JMll in
hia eyes, Dostrils, aad ean, and 110me other anieles ei*
lue in hia mouth, probably for the IIJJle purpoees • the
Romans WICd to put a piece of money in tile mwtb.ofdle
dead person to pay the ferrying Charon, it is ~ with
• a cloth, &Dd ia carried dim:tly by the nOalest·ftllatjona •
GLOIIA&Te 113
....ecemetery. On arriving there, a spot is prepared by
drawing linel· as in a sacrifice, a circumstance which
leeD1S to intimate, that the funereal rite is a kind of sa-
ctifice, and the body is 4id on a pile and reduced to ashes.
After this, and when the fire is n~ly burnt out, the
friends of the deceased, having performed various purifi-
a.tory acts, and significant ceremonies, attended, accord-
ing to the Hintld custom, with the recital ofmantrat, re-
turn home, and commence the mourning rites, which
properly last ten days, though they may be performed
in a shorter time. On the .last of these days, or on the
tbinl or fourth ~y after the funeral, the son or nearest
Jelation of the deceased, accompanied by his kinsmen,
JIIOC*dsto the cemetery, andwith much solemnity gathe111 ·
the bones, encloees them in a new earthen vessel or urn,
aDd buries them deep i11 the earth. The ashes ef the
pyre are also collected, and cast into some running stream.
With the days of mourning however, the funeral rites by
DO means terminate Various trdddluu or obsequies, with
prayers, are l, be performed in a continued course for the
benefit of the eoul of the deceased ; and to embody it
ll@llin in some fortunate form. Gifts are also to be made
for religious uses, and especially ofa cow, and various va-
Juable articles to obtain a passage for the deceased over
l
114 ..~IIUW.
~~. ~ m•.u.s~. or riftr of,t.:IL ~
ties are next perfOJ'IIHIII, to raiM tbe 1001 fiom illpip"
. tory, or state among the deed, into the.heaven oftlleJli.
trlr or its ancestors, where, ifadmitted, it exists a a·Dl·
·v•or divinity. A course oftheee~. which iodude
addreues and invocations toalmoetall tbe penooagao{the
Hindd mythology, commences the day after dae IIIOI1lll'
ingends, and a mlddlza .is JMll:formcd in eyery moatll ~a
year after the death. Another coune is perlOrmtill-atthe
end of the third fortnight, and anotller in the-smtb.and
twelfth months. In many cases, -~er, thaeateGOID-
pressed, and sometimes reduCed within the com,..:o£a
few dayw. The ~on and heir ofthe decaeed ol'enaDilual
oblations for his honour ; and othed are also perbiDed
for more remote progenitors, 10 that the.dead ae JleYC!
totally neglected or forgotten. (As. Res.Vol. "ii. No; 8.)
Rajap6t&, more properly RajaputrM, that is. 10ns oCRajah·
They pretend to be ofthe Crhatriy• class, but their eliims
are not generally supposed to be well founded. They hire
themselvesto attend upon wealthy penona armed, and 1111-
dertake to act as 10ldien in their train.
·R6ginir. These personages are the nymphs ef-~Duie,-Om'
.·whom s~lfiJIIti, the goddeuof ioftDtioa..............
8I.OIII.U.'I'. 115
and the wife ofth~ creator &akm4; presides. Ofthe ori-
pn ofthetie nymphs, Sir Wiliiam Jones, speaking ofIn-
dian music, gives the following account, in the argument
to hie fine Hymn to the last-named goddess. It ~rds a
curious specimen of the allegorical personificationS of the
Hindu•.
" The diflerent position of the two eemitones, in the
teale of seven notes, gi~es birth to seven primary modes,
and eo the whole series consists of ten eemitones ; ·every
one of which may be a model-note or tonic• There are
in nature, tho~ not univel'$llly in practice;·eeventy-
eeven other modes, which may be called derivative; The
arrangement of these is elegantly formed by the Hind!&
on the 1•ariation ofthe Indian year, and the asSociation of
ideas, a powerful auxiliary to the ordinary effects of mo-
dulation. The modes in this system are deified ; ·and as
thereare sixseasonsinIndia, namely, two springs,summer,
autumn, and two winters, an original R4ga, or god of
the mode, is attended by five Rag{n{,, or nymphs of har-
mony. Each has eight sons or genii of the same art, and
each Raga and his family is appropriated to a partieular
season, in which alone, his melody can be sung or played
at prescribed hours·of the day and night. The mode of
Cupid, or Dipwc the i.DflaDlCJ', is auppoeed to be l01t, and
1.'1
116 GLOIUar.
a tradition is current in Hmdlut'lullt, that a musicianwbo
attempted to restore it, was co11SlJQl4111 ,l;Jy ire from hta-
ven."
Religious orders. Vide Yogi.
Reti. Vide Cama.
Sacrifice~. Vide Butter.
Sandal-wood. The santalum of Linoeus, is a small- tree,
growing in the form of a myrtle, with leaves resembling
privet. It principally grows in Ma14ga, or the hill coun-
trie. of the Decan, especially th* lately conquered from
Tippu Sultan ; so that our India Company may be said
to possess the monopoly of an article in great requet
throughout India. The valuable part of the tree is the
heart of the stem, and larger branches; which is of ared
colour, and highly odorous; the outer parts are white,
and of little value From the frequent mention of it in
the Sanscr'tt writings, it seems to have been mueh wed
by the Hindu.•, from the earliest ages, in the able of a
powder to be rubbed on the skin; whea, besides its fra·
grance, it produces a coolness extremely pleasant in hot
climates. It is probably lhe aloe wood of our Scriptures.
Sastra, properly translated, means treatise. The word ia de-
rived from a root signifying to ordai-. and is applied tD
GLOSSAJlY,· 117
all tlie books or treatises esteemed by the Hirulu as sa-
ued : thus it is a word of similar import to the. w;ord
Scripture, as uaed by Christians. The ~ks called the
sdstras are very voluminoUB, and together with their nu-
merous glosses and commentaries, the productioo of
many writers of very different ages, compose a body of
religious tracts, which may be said to be immense. It is
agreed, that of these books, the three Vidal are by far the
most ancient. They seem to have been compiled in an
age possibly anterior to that of Moses, from the tradi-
tious of patriarchal times ; ·and when divested of their
fabulous or allegorical garb, they appear to bear a near cor-
respondence with the history of the Book of Genesis.
The names of the Vidal are the R~gveda, the Yqjurveda,
and the Sar11avedq : with these, a fourth is now commonly
classed, called the At'narvana Veda; but this last seems to
be of a later composition, and to Have been compiled
principally from the other three. Various treatises,
considered as connected with the Vidas, but of a charac-
ter less sacred, are known by the general names of.upa-
vldm, or inferi~r Vedas; angas, or bodies of learning;
and·upangwu, or inferior angas. These compositio~ re-
1ate to.whatever knowledge.may, in any way, be service-
•ablC ~ religiol!ol wo~P.• or is conn~cted with reli~on ;
.-~
120 GLOSSARY.
Hintl4 eompoeitions, arewritten ina language c:aUed &a-
•crrt, now a dead lang1J118e, and known only to a few of
the mO&t learned BrtdJmbu. If a judgement may be
formed, from the number of treati.el er.tant in this lan-
guage upon grammar and rhetoric, it must have been c:u\..
tivated with the ~atest care aDd,study. Thole who have
learn~ it, describe it as poesessing all the eofmess of the
modern Italian, and all the fulD.eBS and elegance of the
ancient Greek, towhich, in many respects, it beananear
resemblance. Most.of the HindU nama are of &mml
derivation, and it is the basis of mO&t of the languages
now spoken in India.
Seaions. Vide Verrlia.
SJujktJ.l, or Shac:ala, corropted bythe English into Jackall, is
an animal nearly resembling in size and shape, that spe-
cies of the dog called the turnspit; in the head and tail it
bears some resemblance to the fox. These animals herd
together in packs of several hundreds, when, thoush not
singly formidable, they became very much so from their
numbers, committing depredations on the flocks, and dis-
turbing the .neighbourhood where they frequent, with
their terrible howlingw. They often roDBe cattle from
their lair in the night, and may cause them occuionally
to fall a prey to the prowling lion,·and thua far~ aad dl•
•
GLOSSARY. 121
<Only, does the shtilral desen•e the title of the Lion's Provi~
der. In theH{toplZdlsa, (videJones' Works, Vol. vi.) the
animal is described as cunninglymischie.vons.; by the Hin-
das it is deemed very unclean.
~{va. Vide Maha-Deva.
~laves. Perhaps no nation was ever so completelydistin-
guished into such a variety.ofordersorclasses, as the Hin-
dus. Of these, the four principal classes or casts, the
Brahmin, the Cshatriya, the Vaisya, and SUdra, are well
known to almost every person who has only heard of ln-
.dia. The following account of their origin and peculiar
occupations, given in the Institutes of Meau, (chap. J. v.
·31.) is more authentic than any usually quoted. ·" That
the human race might be multiplied, He (the Creator
Brahma) caused the Brahmin, the Cshatriya, the Vaisya,
and the Sudra, (so named from scripture, protection,
wealth, and 11\bour) to issue from his mouth, hiJ ann, his
thigh, and his foot." The origin here mentioned, often
excites a smile in the European; it is, however, an alle-
gory accurately descriptive of the rank and degree of ex-
cellence assigned to each class, and indicating the offices
.belonging to each. To the first belong the duties of in-.
struction and the religious functions; to. the second, the
profession ofarms ; tD the third, ,the afJain Of ~lture
IH GLOIIIASYo
and tr&Bic ; md to the fourth, &he duties of lll'iYitude
to each of the otJ. cia.., but mon: particularly the
. Bnd&-'rt•. A variety of distioetioae me made mpect·
ing the rank and buainea .signable to penoos born from
a sexual intercourse betweeu the different cJ..ea. or
· tbeR dittiaetions, it may be o'-rved, that they allJathtr
· tend to a degradation, than to an eleYation of ranks. But,
aotwitbttanding the S(ulra form the lowest, and m a
111!1\"ile order, they are not slaftll, though slavery is wy
eommon througbout India. The most usual means by
·which persons become such, are thus enumerated by Mt-
nd (chap. 8. v. 415.): "One made captive under a sland·
ard in battle; one maintained in oontideration ofsenice;
one born of a female &lave in the house ; one sold, or
given, or ·inherited from ancestors; one enslaved by way
Gf punishment on his inability to pay a large fine."' The
voluRtary sale of the person himself, Of of parts·of his fa-
mily, to obtain food in times of IIC:ll'City, is one of the
means which at present increases mo&t considerahb' the
nunlber of &laves in India. The condition of slavery
.among the HiJtd!U, is not ingeneral at present~11 bard ;
.the slave fares nearly like the test of hia master'•·family.
Wbat society is upon earth, such, acccording to the sys·
t~~~m.ei abePWTU..., lUI.l the.raaka and·d~ iu ,.,.,.,
lt:S
or.heaveo. Henee, the IIJDds are assigned their slaves for
various purpotes, as with monarchs and great men on
earth; with this difference, that the heavenly.sJa,u are of
a celestial or spiritual nature. -Among the eeln~l.alaves,
the Ap1aru, wbo are beautiful females, such .as: the
Houri• ofMahomet, are the.most.celebrated.
SWya. Vide SU.rya'1 race.
Sarga'1 race. SU.rya is the deity presiding in or.ruliag the
sun. The historical records of the .Brt~/a.a, .speak of
two lines or families of princes, one nlled Sdrya'111Du1u,
or children of the sun, the other Chandravdrua•, or child-
ren of the moon. This distinction is rather owing, i~
may be presumed, to the religious worship peculiarly pa~
tronised by these two families, who, on that -account,
were complimented by a flattering priesthood, with the
title of sons of the deity which each adored. In the
opening address of the poem, Nerbudda, or Bhavdn(, is
called the pride of Surya'• race, upon the authority ofthe
following expreSsions of the Vayera Purdna. ," Thou art
united with the ocean, thou art decended from Sur!Ja."
In these, however, it is not meant that the goddess was
born ofone of these families above-mentioned, and was a
mortal deified ; but the expression is to be understood al-
legorically, inallusion t.o tbeaWXlCI&iQafll DIUUalprcaduo.-
GLOSU&Y·.
tions mentioned in the folluwing passage of the R'lgvitiG.
(As. .Res. Vol. viii. p. 406.) "The sun is bom of fire;
the moon is bom of the sun-Rain is produced from the
moon-Lightning comes of rain, &c." The whole inti-
mates, that the goddess Blumln{ or N"(n,dda, is a per-
eonific:ation of the highest and most important of all the
energies of nature. Perhaps, when 5he is called .. of Slt-
rya'l race,- she is rq;arded in the character of the moon,
and as the female or secondary cause of natural effects.
Sw"ga. Vide lndra.
Tnc. Vide Crown.
Tranlfltigration. Vide Destiny.
Trl1dl, is a three-pointed spear or halbert, like the trident of
the Roman god Neptune. It is borne by S{pa, and often
affixed to the top of his temples. There seems to be good
reason for believing, that the three pointsare symbolicalof
the threefold powers of the god, to whom all the powers
Clf the triad are commonly ascribed by his aect. Perhaps
the trident ofNeptune, in Greek called the earth-shaking,
lignifies his authority over three elements, earth, air,
water.
Triad. Vide Bralrmt!.
U•brtlla, or Clltt'httr, ia directed to be uaed by 1111gistrates,
GLOSSARY, 125
or princes, as an emblem of state (Gtntu Law. Introd.).
It is borne in different ways before penons of different
ranks. A... Res. Vol. i. No.5.
Yahdn, or Yalzana. This is a car endowed with the power of
self-motion, in obedience to the will or wi1h of the per-
sonage to whom it belongs. Mostofthe Dev4• of the Hin-
du• have the privilege of using a valzdna, and mortalshave
sqmetimes been allowed ihe same glorious indulpce.
Can were assigned to the deities ofGreece and Rome; but
differed from those ol India, in being drawn by various
animals, and not absolutely self-moving. Thus, the car
of Juno was drawn by peacocks; that of Venus by dovet
or sparrows ; of Neptune by sea-horses. In the HiruU
drama of SacoratalJ, king Druhmanta is borne through
the air in the valu.lna of indra ; and the legend. of Greece
apeak of similar honours granted to their own votariet.
The sorceress Medea had a vahana of her own, drawn by
dragons. TI1e ingenious Wilford writes, that the English
word W aggon is derived from vahana, through someofthe
dialects of India. Perhaps the Sarucrrt might enable our
philologists to trace many words beyond the languages of
Rome or Greece.
Yata. This name is given to eeveral species of the fig. u the
ficus religi~. the ficus .Beogalensi•, and the ficus Indica.
1~ aLOSSAJlT;
with some others. These are all held aacred by tlae Brah·
m~111, and especially the first, calk!d by them the Pi}lp4-
la, (A. Res. Vol. iv. No.!7.). The ficus Indica maywith
con6dence be pronounced to be one of the most curiOus
productions of the vegetable world, oa &CC!JU!lt of theex·
traordinary manner in which it extends ita growth. Its
bnmches spread_,.ery wide, about eighteen or twenty·feet
from the stem, and then bending down the extremities
thicken, and continually approach nearer to the earth,
prebably from a collection of the retarded circulaticill of
the eap. When they reach the ground they put forth
roots, and the branches become a etem·or trurik, growing
to the si:ae of the largest European oaks or elms. ·The
branches, having thus become trees;. again· shoot out
branches bending down, and rooting as before, still ex·
tending th~:mselves, often till the whole plant coven a
very large space of ground. One of these grove-like:trea
growing on an island in the Nerbudda river, about ten
miles from Baroaclf; in the provin<Je of Guzerat, has three
hundred and fifty principal stems, each as large as timber
trees; and these occupy a space two thousand teet in cir-
c:umf~:rence, and the branches, whose hanging e:xaemi-
ties have not yet reached the ground. extend much flit.
the.r. Thil tree was once much larger tha• it is at pre-
1
GLO.SI.A,J.Y,o
aent, ~or many o£ the ~tems have been carried ol' by·the
floods of the river, which have WBihed away.part.of'the
soil of the iala~d. The natives aflinn, that it. i&- three
thousand years old, and very poasibly it may;•siaee, when
any of the older central stems decay-l\lld leave a.~nt
space, this is in time re-occupied by fresh·stemBp _
pro-
duced by the branches growing and rooting, u- ia the
·outer sides of the grov(l. A plant poaesaing·tuoh proper-
ties as these, may be justly termed immortal. S..tity
is very probablyascribed to this tree, beeaute orits apcnea
to represent the emanation oC living beinss from the Jl&":
rent,,or Creator Brahma, who, having received the pin·
ciple of life from the Great Supreme Brakme, produced,
by a succession o£agents, all the worlds, and all creatu~
both animate and inanimate. (Menu, chap. 1.) Tha
Brah.m6u, however, assign a reason for the sanctity or
this plant, more mited to the understandings o£ the vu};.
gar; and affirm, that Vishnu, the preserver, was hom·un-
der its shade. Under this legend is couched an ingenious
allegory, significative ofthe salutary shade afforded by ita
branches, imperYious to the rays ofthe sun. On accountof
·the reputedsanctityofthetree, pagodasortemples arecom-
monly erected beneath, orcontiguous to its shade; in 10me
iastances, one of these trees is planted within the area
l'lS GLOII.A.RT.
of the principal court of the pagoda. (As. Rea. Vel. v.
No. 20.) The yogu, or religious ascetics, practiJe their
austerities near it for the same reason, and any injwy dooe
to a twig or leaf is considered as a crime scan:ely 1at
atrocious than murder. Both the other spec:iea of the
ficus above-mentioned, though less remarkable in their
growth than the fic.us Indica, resemble it in the rootinaol
their extreme branches, (Martyn'• Edit. of Millar'a Gar·
dener'a Diet. ad voc. Ficus) and are held sacred probably
for that ,·ery reason ; though aome aacribe the sanctity of
the ficus religi011a to the brown colour of the female
flowreta, which bears some allusion to the preserver
Yuhnu.
Parltna is one of the eight guardian deities, and is the ruling
lord of waters, chiefly those of streams and straits of.the
ocean. As waters are conducive to the general operations
of natural causes, Jlliruna is said, in the mingling allego-
ries of Hindu mythology, to be the husband of BluJoU.nf.
He is, however, inferior to the great monarch of the
ocean, obscurely known to be the mighty Siva;. and thia
inferiorityis indicated, by the manner in whichheia usually
represented in the pagodas; sitting on the back of a ma-
rine monster resembling the crocodile, but with his legs
bent under him, a paature of adoration or homage in all
GJ.OISAaY; 129
the countries of India. " Voriino," aaya Menu (chap. 7·
v. i!45,) " is lord of plinishment, he holds a rod even over
kings." Why he should be so considered, except that of-
fenders were sometimes punished by drowning, is not easy
to be conjectured.
'7jtJa, Vide S4stro.
'7ene, or Pioo, is a sort of guitar consisting of a finger-board
snt inches long, largehollowed gourds fixed at each end,
and se\•en strings or wires passing over the whole length,
after the manner ofEuropean violins. It is a pleasing in-
strument, and the best belonging to the Hind4s. It is
mpposed to have been anciently more perfect than at pre-
sent, (As. Res.Vol. i. No. 13,) and the grounds for this
.opinion, are similar to thoseurged by the advocates for the
mperiority of ancient Grecian over modem Euro~an
music•
Ymha. The Hindu divide their time into' years of S65
days, six hours, twelve minutes, anclsome seconds. At
· present, their year begins about the vernal equinox; but
anciently it commenced abOut thewinter solstice, as with
the generality ofEuropean nations, both ancient and rno-
iem. The year is subdivided into six ritds, or seasons of
two months each. Of these, tiiJIIIfltc&, or the spring, be-
gins about the middle of February, and lastl till the mid-
dle ofApril; OriiA•a. or thehot.fsta¥)n,\am.~~~~ ~
lt
clleoUWleJ Y.mh. ot,the·niDJ'.uoo. tilhbe-Udle
ofAuguat ; Sar41M, or tbtl·sultlf«<IIID• tindieIBildle
ofOctober; Hmt4tt~c, or thewiater, :till the middleof
l)eceuaberJ and sw... ot!U..dowiJ·~ tilla.Jiid.
dle of February. (Vide Joaea's Suppkalliat:ta :S.,m
Hindu Chronology.) The difference of'.~ ollha•
v~l c:qiPJAriw.of·~~~ lll4ti~Dplli,_ o£11111UD'<
taiJae aQii hi6hlacuta. oec.ioo; in IDilQy.pna..aCODiiler·
Mle wriat.ioo of the.teiiiJI!l8.from·.~.,-.. apeaiallJ
"'--~e provinces oftho:DtcM.·lli~...._.;.-lillitahleto
the pl"O\>inoel eontiguoat·•tle•&o!na>pao(.the..aounc
o( the· Gapgee, aod in ...,_, )II'D'IIIIOea-i --... probably
invm~1 .perhapa:a\ M~..._.lu: .dpl,·or~
'l'lle Hirt4t1 ame,is ~nbdniilaliilllla lllOIItM of
.~,.or tltkty-one-da}'IL~ in_.,..~-,_clays,
with names ofexactly the same import, as tltoec...in
· anci.entmd modem Eorctpe.r.'-~\JD,hdia,..h.ia
evi~ were.Ieqv..t fiom·che .-....-...lmlhiag.dle.,.
trological)ntlueaoea oftH&t:ana·~·:EMbl~-il di"fiiW:Qlto
W¥typartaoftweol.J-lour mh$~-hllue-.iijri.....
into three-day. threa:nlght.~.l,.~,........
of the JC1J'S ~ aeveral. othtJ...,__.•._. TA.fet.
.aivab• and all ther~~eaaf.tbli~: are
~~~~·-~~---!' ........-.
'-lld.J,y;.~-. ~·\QPII~~~~.......
181
el~j,ies; during the·~ of ~e·oioo~ th~ugh.portions
ofher orbit of tW~lve. degrees each, into which it is di-
vided. Hence it is ol>vious~ that .thetll'hi~ or.lunar;day,
w"ill not correspond'with die solar day. but may ~ at
noon, or at midnight; or'any'boui'~bateVer. Thisocca-
. .
aionS"c:onsiderable difficulties, with respect'to.the proper
timesfor the..o'baervmce' ot rellgioos cerem~nies: They
are, however, in a great m~ure removed by the HindU
almanacs, in which these matters are determined, gene-
nDyon·priiidpt~ aumcientty ar"bitr&rf; by the .Brah~~
utronom~iit. Th'e'Pdr'dritu·~preieilt ea~h'ofthese tifhu
or:luliar daY:s: ~abeaUtit~ rtym'ph,'aridit~l~erytl~ery
ancfall.iC3l'deicrlptioni 'of them; acc:Of!ling' to their
••. , • : • • • • J ,. ·;. 1 • • : •
usual manner of per&Orufying every object which can by
atrjmeans be ~risid'~iedas distinct: It'niaj-be pi-Oper to
, 'cj • • • • j, • • : • t I
mention, that the lunar year of Ute Bra'h•lru com-
menees.at the'autUmnal eqwnox, ai'd'id the pitriarCbaJ, or
• ' • ' 1 0 ' ' • ' ' ' 1 ,1 ~ ' \ ·• I •
antediluvian year. and alsoilie year of the ltraelitea, pre-
vlOfis tothelr'departure1
?ut or~. .
P'ula~~. Vid~ M~ Deva:
PuAiiif.al t.be'sun.~'the·.u~·is ~Jeii in~ Ydrcliu&Ptfrdu,
a'/q;mVYulan~, aiid ac.c;oidfng to'tiu. and th; Maltya
. Plr4ridi,' heriaon t& fourteenth 'oft'he iunar'mcinth
: earitC4, (~p;jilab.g;~ly ..rittl~ur <kto~) =rromhia
·.teq lJt'roar·moathi; &clio~·~· a~·-p~-Ma~-
"'l
132 GLOBBAJlY,
the eleventh of Bhatlra, or September. " Vl•hnll sleep-
ing turn• his aide." (Jonea on the Lunar Year.) Thete
allegoriea are doubtless expreaaive of the effects of the
sun on the vegetation in the Gangetic provincea, which
are inundated during the four montha of what ia called
the sleep of Vl1hnu. Thia takea place according to the
·allegory when the beams of the sun are generally obscured
by clouds.
Yd111a 1s one of the eight deitiea, diatinguished, according
to Menu, by the title of guardian deitie1, from the parti-
cular concern they bear iu the government of the world.
He ia said.to be the child of the sun, and hie particular of·
fice is the government of the regiona of the dead, where
he sits as judge over the souls of the dying, and assigns to
each, its proper reward or punishment. According to the
Hindu legends, the ministers of thia god attend each
person at hie death, and convey him, ifhe bas beenvirtu-
ous and good, in a delightful self-moving car, or valuSIIIJ,
to the tribunal of thejudge, who, under the title ofDher-
ma Raja, or the king of justice, receivea the departed
good spirit with a smiling countenance, and regulates ~
reward or recompense, according to his individual merit,
.placing him in a higher rank and more happy condition
upon earth, or assigni.n" n\m a ~~~\\.~"'"" 'Ill.. Uu».~
c;a:.ossARY. 133
term of years in the Swi!'Tga or heaven of Jndr~ ; after
which, he again returns to the earth and undergoes new
trials of duty and obedience. The award ofMuct{, or the
admission into the highest heaven, from whence the soul
never more returns to life upon earth, seems to be made
only by deities of a higher order than Ydma, and is, per-
haps, the gift ofone of the three personages of the Tr·{-
murti, or Triad alone. But, tf the dying person has led a
wicked life, the messengers of Ydma then hurryhim over
mountains, rocks, tempestuous seas, and the like, with
ignominy, violence, and pain, into the presen'ce of the
judge; who, nnder the title ofYdma, receives him with a
terrible aspect, and assigns him to sufferings in the various
hells or places ofpunishment, ofwhich, according to Me-
nu ch. 4. v. 88, there are twenty-one, till the stains of past
offences shall have been removed, and the offender be ren-
dered by this purgatory, not unworthy of divine favour,
and to be again permitted to live upon the earth; usually,
on his first return, under the form ofsome plant or baser
animal. Ydma is called regent of the south, by which
term the Brahmhu understand the regions ofdarkness, or
the infernal regions, a fancy they probably adopted in
those ages, when it is believed they inhabited countries of
pjgher latitude than India, upon obeeniug. that the daJI
OLOSJAli.Y.
. :: .
were shortened when the IIWl moyc:d tDwald the southern
• • • • • • ' • • l.O.l
•~fie_. I~ .~eae :varjou,sc~ti<:a, it ~ veryasy to
t~ ~·character of the CretaD Minos, a.ad to ~
0 1~ o, 0 , 1 ' • ' 1 , ' = ,' ~ ' , It fl• • o
-~ ~at ,the !fir~d~ Y4'!'6 ~ .~ ~injS .P.we!Y :allegoricaL
f's,t.he_sun is .the p~11-ci~ ~yae of,~ lpe. p.~tb. IIIIo
tu.ri~ an~ ~~y ~f v~.tab~~•.~~iDa-~~~· ol
~ .also : ~~~ .~-~ ~ l'~riFt)' il_l JepJli!II!Dtills
_abe god of ~~ ~~ ~ ~~ so.~ .c# ~ ~; it il
me~y a ,penonifi~tipn of .ca~ ~elf~ The .pleas-
• 1 o ,.t,, ,, - . I ., • 0 t l
ing or ~rri~le as~of~.~~ty~ ~-t~. ~of
. ~e .mii,llstel'!' co.Pcluc~ the ~~ to ·Y4"- we ~
~r~~ ~rosition~ o~ ~ d~erent (~rl ~·JWd and
~ickcd_at t.hF }lour of d.~· apfl.of~e ~~(orta or ter·
. ~rs of a good or of a bad~· ~ d~e of
judgeD1ent aft:er d~th, might be mp~ '9 havebeen
~rro~~ from ~e c~~jan .rey:e~ti,on•• ~ i~ ~ cer·
~n, that the.,aaq1p beliefw•eP,~nP4~b)'. tb.eGreW
. ~ong ~c:!:ore ~e birth ofour Sa~ow ; it IQPil tbM!ilre be
~mi~~· th~t the f~~:bles, both. Rf 9J'!'Cilll w ladia, were
pt~ res_ult of a t~ lfpowl~ ~n~g tbiJ.~bject,
._#~rly apd f~iliarly ·lffid~tood bJ ~ -l'M JlltRiarehl.
b~t allllost ~h~ll~ lost, at ~t ~ ~ h~·~, till
,. ~ ~~ ~viv~ and broqgb~ t.q ~~by the ~-
,;~,! ri'fl-i.p,~:{i'I.{WI(.A4tb COWilOPIJ ~the
GLOSSABY; 135
Ju11&111a, ftowiDg into tbe'Galigea inthe·nehlityof.DtlM.
In the G{ta-govinda, it is called the daughtm"oftheaUQ
and sister of Y4flla, Ita 'Waten are eateemed Very 1&-
·cred.
f'"pga'. No men can be more fond of nice·distinctioiis, and
:fine, often .frlvol«>us discriininations, than the-1
HintUt.
This pasaion for discrimination ·baa ih~ itselt'ft'm in
regard to the different degrees of the religiOtJS a&'ec:tions,
and~these me.to eonferdif£erent titles, or, speaking the
-langtuge of universities, degrees, upon the ·penons ila
·whom ~ese differeatdegrees ofpiety are believed to·exist.
ordlese, three·are·particularly distingaished:in the sicred
.8/.mruby tile Mmes·or titles o£Mfml, PtiJitllt, mel Yogi.
The Mimi is, ·amoog ihell'ma.U, what aphiloeopherwas
with '&he Greek., mre deeply versed in ·the principles of
moral and religiws duty, whlch he taUght and c1Dcussed
tD hia dilciplea.and llearers. The Ptmllll is a penon, who
baa impl'Ofed a thOlOIJSh·kDowledge oC the moral and roo
ligioua laws, by the diligent mrcise oC ~e '.Olind in reli-
giOIJI meditatioos, and a due regulatio~ of the·aft'ec:tions;
and is auppoeed, bythese means, to have attained to a very
high eminenee both in wisdom aiM! i~ty. · On this
account;'Pni.illere alone allcnvecl to pleadia CCialllell011
ill1be.llMcW OCMIIftl.ot'j'llllieatare, fwWbich......
J36 1JLOS8ARY.
tbey always such aa their title imports, they would indee4
be moat proper.
The Yogi ia a penon, ,vho, to all the foregoing quali~
fications, baa superadded the power of employing the
mind in the most profound and mystic meditations upoo
the Deity, and is supposed to have become~ deeply abl-
tracted from the objects of sense, u to bejoined in toul
to the divine nature. To this his character, he owes his
name : the word Yog( being derived from the substantive
Yoga .
or YugiJ, which signifies union or j.oining. But al-
though the character or degree of Yogi is supposed to be
the resultofthe acquirements and habits of the Muru'and
Pandita, yet those degrees are not thought to be neces-
aarily preparatory to this; and certainly many penons
~laim the title .
of Yog{, without any pretensions to those
ofMWI{ and Paraditq, which indeed is granted to anyone
who can be supposed, by any means whatever, tohaft ac-
quired a mental or spiritual union with the Deity. To
this end, the austerities of the ascetic are auppoeed to be
peculiarly, and indeed almoat exclusively conducive; and
owing to this opinion, the name hat been applied aa a~
neral term, signifying all the various orden of Hitltld de-
votees, who perform acts of penonal mortification from
religious motives. All these llR, from • suppoeition ~
GLOSSAaY. 131.
their eminent piety and union with the Deity, by medita·
tion, termed Yog£1. Fak{r or Fakeer, is another name
given them by Europeans, but it is only properly applica-
ble to the devotees of the religion of Mahomet.
It is difficult, in the pretent state of our knowledge of
the several orders and descriptions of Yog£1, to describe,
or even enumerate, the vast nriety which have arisen
among the disciples of Brahma, since the fears or follies
of superstition first led men beyond the rational boundt,
of penitential devotion, into the extravagances of the
ascetic. It is known, however, that the Ju.ngo- an:
followers of S{va, whodo not acknowledgetheauthorityof
theBrahmlm, and that thePa!ldora1111 an:Srfdrtudevoted
to the worship of the same deity. The like may be, per•
haps, safely affirmed by the Nag/1. The &ta11Gft41 are
worshippers ofVfllt.n(,, The order of &nyouu aredivided
in their worship of these two gods. The Pirag/1, or By-
ragetJ, as they are often called by persons less convenant
in the Sammt, are an order of religious composed ofper·
sons, either dedicated to the service of the Deity in cir-
cumstances similar to thole which devoted Samuel, the
prophet of Israel, to the aervice of the Lord; or ebe the
descendants ofsuch persons. The Goueym, that is, the
GaudtJ.-4rca•rl or great Iordi, are another powerful order
pf religioua, the rinla of the BJt'Gf.u\~ ·~-...
GLOSSARY.
quence ornear equality in power and eminence, they Cre-
.quently.have oecaaion .to contest with them the question
,of~· (See Captai~ Hardwicke'a Journey to Siri-
nagur. A.. Bea. Vol vi.) But although of these, and
..mreimilar ordera, no very compl.ete.and authentic ac-
~te have hithprto.been obtailled by Europeans ; yet,
u ther IU'1 au be suppoeed to have sprung from the four
, .zeligi<nWorders dtiacribed by Menu, an idea tolerably ex-
. - may.be formed orthem. from what is written in the
Inatituma. which~ onthis account,.particularqworthy
.·of-~11..
·T.bemat:af'.thae otders is<that or the Br:amaclw.ri, that
:is, of.t;he,-outlDul or8Dy1sb student,who Rllda the VIda,
. ~:learns the practice.ofreligious rites and duties, under
, the.dilectioo of a ~ or religioas preceptor. ~to this
.. oftler.the JOA1Dg Hcntla may'bt\ admitted at the_age ofnine
- ·''~ mi he may ocmtioue iD it twenty or thirty years
.;• 'till be eo; eu.fticieotij leamed, or &:ill he may chqoae to
.. ..!~Darry•·~ dUtime m.diet m.t.be aimple, hia dress
1- ••plaia,:.nd hlulerneapgr toher.and ~eapectful, and hia ha-
.. \>itapartalting aotoC abeolate.auateritf,.. but yet ofa con-
..•lideJab~·c~qvee oflwdihoed•
. · The nm enler ia called o.Nltl,. and CODiiata in a con-
.•· tiliJJiMe.tlfdli·datielof &he~. which peaona
... .- - .iDio tbjaii!JIIef.__dariag life, with lbme ad·
GL(!IJAI._Y.
ditional observaqces. But the lnstiMes ~ ~t - to
' . • ' . ' • . . . I •
approve thi,s prac*e: they.f!lther exhort theBra/vrl4clusrl
wenter ~to wh11qhey term ~e order of~ house~older,
.or .married man, a state not properly asc;etic ; for ~ta du-
. _
ties consist wholly.in a dil,igeJilt e,ttention to t,he common
C()nc;ems of,life a,n~ the_ man~ent ofa fam~y, attended
. w~ . the pr~~e~ce qf liberalilJI. and benevolepce, IIA~ the
. .col_l~ual ~d punctual _perfor~ce o£the y.ariou8 ri~ of
..1
lfOFShip. :w.h~ce t.he o~r is SOIJletimes terwed ~e order
..·!'.f.th~ ~ificer.
The next order is truly ascetic, and ,tl\e ~ be-
·~~ to it are properly Y11g{1. The Ip,i~ direct
:~ J!inda to e,nter ~pon t\Us :when be ~gin• to llecline
:.m.&P;the va~e of Y:el~Jl. l1JI.4 sees the son of his son, He ia
..-then bid tq r~ljl).quish w~1ldly CQncetn& and worldlJ en-
~~~t' ; ~ ~~re ipto ll fqrest, ;w4, with otl!.eff qf the
~IUntr~!ler, pm the_
whole_
qf his time in dewcnimtaltxer-
. eiJel;. s~ll as prayer, !1-bl~oq, 11011 .,crifice, and the prac:-
.: _tictl of..,ets1>f pe_""nal ~everity and rn.ort.ifiCIILion. ·Theae
.. ~ be !.u,or~ till the body be wholly eulliJSted, and
, ~ vP.lli!D~IJ ~rer expire. These acts C!Of:1Si~ princi-
;. ~~ iR£1\C<lqent and l!)ng-continued futs, in ~poeure to
.. ~ jpp~!=i~ of,the lll8&0n, and in painful and troa-
. •a ~~-~·- Tbe .,OlJilta giKen by._ Greeks who
:~tl-~4~ Al~ the Great. iWo ~. )RYe the~
liQ
': .
IILOSSARY,
~· .., .·.. ..
antiquity of these practices; and numberless instances of
the same in the present times, prove the almost immuta-
bility of Hindu manners, and render it impossible to
doubt the testimony of Alexander's Greeks respecting
these austerities, which, but for the evidence of undenia-
ble facts, might be justly termed incredible. The Euro-
pean of the present age beholds these practices with pity,
wonder, and astonishment, sensations which have been
excited in the breasts of Europeans occasionally visiting
Bindust'M.n at various times, during a period exceeding
two thousand years.
The austerities to be practised by the Yog{, or religious
devotee of the third order, are thus prescribed by Menu :
•f Let him slide backwards and forwards on the ground ;
or let him stand a whole day on tiptoe; or let him conti-
nue in motion risingand sitting alterl!.ately; butat sun-rise,
noon, and sun-set, let him go to the waters and bathe. In
the hot season, let him sit exposed to five fires, four blaz-
ing round him with the sun above ; in the rains, let
him stand uncovered, even without a mantle, where the
clouds pour the heaviest showers ; in the cold season, let
him wear a humid vesture ; and let him increase by de-
grees the austerity of devotion, performing his ablutions
at, the three Savana. (the sacrifice or oblation to fire, di-
,ectedtobe performed threetimes a day. Bdnwylln4,Sect.
GLOSSARY, 141
12.). Let him givesatisfaction to fire, to the manes, and to
the gods; and enduring harsher and harsher mortifications,
let him dry up his bodily frame ; let him live without a
·mansion, wholly silent, feeding on roots and fruits, or a
scanty pittance received as alms; chasteasa student; sleep-
ing on the bare earth, in the haunts of pious hermits,
withoutone selfishaffection ; dwelling at the roots oftrees,
occasionally studying, for the purpose of uniting his soul
to the divine spirit, the various upanishads of scripture.
Should these severities bring on incurable disease, let him
advance in a straight path toward the invincible north-
eastern point, feeding on watn and air, till his mortal
frame decay, and his soul be united to the Supreme."
Menu, ch. 6. v. 22, 23, 24, 29, 31. The exhortation to
a gradual increase ofthe austerity of these devotions, will
be found to authorise the varieties of exercises different
from those here described; it seems, however, principally
to relate to the continued repetition of sacred texts, which
are counted by beads, in the manner of the Ave Maria.r of
the Romanists, and the observance of fasts. Of the fasts
variously distinguished both by severity and continuance,
that which is called the Chandrayana, or monthly, is one
of the most severe. During this fast, the devotee eats
only fifteen mouthfuls on the first day of the moon, and
diminishes these till only one is taken on the day of the
