{"name":"Heresey And Imposture Of Joanna The Prophetess","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1810__hann___heresey_and_imposture_of_joanna_the_prophetess.pdf","mytitle":"Heresey And Imposture Of Joanna The Prophetess","mylang":"de"}
A ^
L E T T E R
To the Right Reverend
THE LORD BISHOP OF LONDON,
/
COJfGPRNING -VBB
U rn s; anh Jmposture
or
fJOANNA THE PROPHETESS,
AND SOLD BY THE AUTHOR,
AT BIS BOUSE,
$<j. h, Short's Gardens, King Street, Seven Dials, London.
It
London:
fainted by J. SMITH, 17, Queen Street, Seven Dials
1810.
dggized by Google
PRICE SIX-PENCE.
yGoogle
A LETTER, &c.
M y Lord, ___ : i -
T h a t perfect equality amongst rational
beings, is impossible ; and:that Subordination is msaperably
connected with the happiness of society, are truths that
admit of no controversy'. But it is equally true, that every
man has a right, by the laws of nature,.‘to petition those that
are appointed his rulers and governors, for the redress of
his grievances, and for the removal of those things that in~
terfuptbis happiness. Availing myself of this privelige, I
take the liberty to implore your Lordship's exertion for the
suppression of the heresy and imposture ofJoanna Southcott.
th e name of thte woman, must needs have reached your
Lordship's ears; yet the evils attached to that name, perhaps
your Lordship is a stranger to. ‘
This woman, my Lotd, for those eighteen years past, lias
been endeavouring by insidious, Crdfly, and satanic methods,
t# turn mankind from the pure principles of the Christian reli­
gion, to follow a cunningly devisedfable.. Such an attempt,
one would hkvfr shpposbd, must (in this land of gospel sun­
shine,) have proved abortive^ even if made by a person of
distihguished abilities; ‘but the event proves that reason,
though often successful inker predictions, is not infallible,
the'attem pt, though the offspring of daring ignorance and
flagrant presumption, has wonderfully, distressingly, and
alarmingly succeeded. , v '
mMany thousands, my Lord, have fallen a prey to the
delusion; and what is most of all surprising, the delusion*
has gained a footing amongst the clergy. Several of the
clergy, my Lord, declkre tttey have-impartially and atten­
tively investigated the woman's pretensions, and have found
them perfectly honest; notwithstanding her writings abound'
with manifest marks of delusion and imposture..
■
' This woman, my Lord, pretends to be a messenger from*
fjSiod; and these gentlemen have.given their most cordial
sanction to the mission and by so* doingi have established
a:delusion, that without such a support, would in all proba­
bility have b<£en but very short lived. ' • •
The sknetibit of these gentleman, my Lord, must be.con­
sidered as the fneart support of the pretended mission; and
as the delusion has now gained such a footing, as to require
your Lordship's approbation or opposition; it must appear
Digitized by Google
%
to your Lordship, that the calling these gentlemei to at>
count, must prove an essential step towards the discovery of
truth, and the suppression of imposture.
Several gentlemen, my Lord, have at different times;
attempted to convince this woman of her folly, and put a
stop to its baneful progress; but for want of properly inves­
tigating her writings, and perseverance in the undertaking,
have entirely failed. J believe I may venture to say, without
the imputation of vanity, that I myself have investigated
her writings, with more assiduity and impartiality than any
other person. Some of my friends have blamed me for so
doing, thinking the time would have been better spent in
attending to my business; but the question applies to them,
that Christ put to his disciples, “ what is a man profitted, if
“ he should gain the whole world, and lose his own soul?" I
indst confess my literary abilities are inadequate to the exe­
cution of this business, notwithstanding 1have been irresis-
tably impelled to it, by the remonstrances of conscience,
and the danger I conceive those people to be in, that have
the misfortune to be deluded.
Some people, my Lord, have blamed my proceedings,
because, say they, the woman and her followers are aninfa­
tuated people, and will hearken to nothing. But this equally ,
applies to every preacher of the gospel, that preaches to'the
unconverted, for every atheist, every deist, and every infidel
is infatuated, and if my remonstrances are blameable on
this accotmt, so are those of gospel ministers also.
• Others assert, my. Lord, that Joanna and her followers
are touched with insanity, and therefore I am only fighting
with the wind; but supposing them to be a little deranged,
yet the many that have been recovered from that malady,
justifies the attempt, and encourages my perseverance ; and
if it is a parallel case, the length of time some of these
insane people take to be cured, even by the most powerful
medicines, ought to support me under similar discourage­
ments.
There are also those, my Lord, who insinuate, that though
it is a delusion, there is no danger in it; that the people are
'* poor, weak, silly set of beings, and that God will con­
sider them as such, and wink at their ignorance. But from
blame of this kind I shall surely be exonerated by you
Lordship, and every reasonable man; since in a city so
idiuminultd with Gospel Light as London; no society can
Digitized by C j O O Q L C
bj(e possessed of that ignorance, at whifcb God was formerly^*
said to wijn^; and this will, without all doubt, prove their
condemnation, that light is come ipto the world; for X
affirm it to be impossible for any person to attend to the
Light of the Gospel, and continue a follower of Joann^-
Southcott.
The Spirit tells Joanna, that if 3
1 wrong spirit could have*
deceived her, no guilt could fall on her head or the lead of
Believers. But this, instead of lessening the danger, renders
it inhnitely greater: it shuts up the Believers in that dread-*
ful security, that has nothing but an infamous lie for it**
foundation.'
1 shall make it appear, my Lord, in the course of this com--
ftlaintj-that the tenets of this woman, are as heretical'
and antichristian, as the church of Rome, and therefore if
her adherents are-in no danger, the Martyrs bled in vain.
1 shall now, my Lord, proceed to give a short account oL
this woman and her doctrines.
She pretends that an invisable spirit attends her; and <
makes himself exceedingly familiar with her.. From this
familiar spirit,.we are informed, she is in the habit of*
receiving communications, the spirit speaking to her, a*
man speaketh to m an; from which account it was under*
stood, that he addressed her in an audible voice, till sus-
pecting deception, I caused her to be interrogated, when taken *
unawares, she confessed that the spirit’s habit of addressing
her, was not in an audible voice.. Hence I concluded, if
could be (at best) but an impression of the<mindf which*
every one will acknowledge is very liable to deception..
AVhat tliis invisible spirit is, my.Lord, that thus visits her,,
is a question that ha$ been much agitated, and is very diffi­
cult to he settled, because the account that he is*reported to
gpve of himself, is.very contradictory and confused* Joanna,
herself, pretends to have been piuch at a loss to determine
what spirit it was, till a number of gentlemen, with three *
of the clergy at their head, set in counsel on the important.
question; and >who, after three several meetings, each of
which lasted seven days, concluded that it was the Spirit of*
Go$. .
Prior to this, my Lord, the woman was very much agi­
tated on account of her- uncertainty ef 1he nature of the :
spirit, and this uncertainty, was at times so prevalent in.>
•5
Digitized by U o o Q i e
her mind, that she was frequently about to burn her Wri­
tings and relinquish her pursuits. And though we find her,
a t other times, declaring the greatest certainty, that her vsi-
taut is no other than the Spirit of God; yet it js very
evident, that such declarations could only proceed from a
mind so contaminated with spiritual pride, as to hazard any
thing, rather than abandon the fascinating object, that has
supported her under every disaster; viz. popularity and fame.
This circumstance, my Lord, I consider as deserving
your Lordship's attention, because it must have a loud voice
In the trial; for to make the best we can of it, by supposing
that she had once a real belief that this visiting spirit was
the Spirit of God, yet as this belief was destroyed, that
circumstance must destroy the divinity of the mission, and
leave nothing but imposture.
When I lay before your Lordship, the grounds of her
doubts and fears, it will be seen that they were not ill
founded.
Your Lordship will find in the pamphlet enclosed with this*
of Charges against the Woman and her Judges, pages 30,
31, 32, that the spirit tried at four different times, to fore­
tell the time her father would die, but missed the.m ark
every time; at which Joanna was so mortified, as to be
almost driven to despair, to be ready to burn her writings,
and even to wish for death. And I appeal to your Lordship,
and all the world, if her scepticism was ill founded. 1 say
scepticism, for though she ought on this account to have
decided the question; yet (as before observed) from an
attachment to the bewitching object of greatness and singu­
larity, she still remained in suspense, at least, pretended,
so to do.
Here your Lordship will naturally enquire, by what device
she satisfied the minds of her adherents, so as to Continue
the imposture? This, my Lord, was done by ascribing*
mutability to the Deity, which is rank blasphemy.
The name, my Lord, that this fa m ilia r assumes, is,
in general, the Lord; the Lord of *Life ;* the Living Lord;
the Lord of Lords, and King of Kings. Which of tho
sacred Three he is, cannot be determined; for he is as mu­
table in his person, as in his decrees. Sometimes he is the
Father, sometimes the Son, and sometimes the Holy Ghost,
and sometimes he is all Three; net only as one God, but as
one Ferson.
6
Digitized by Google
If, my Lord, it is a real spirit, that attends this woman,
I cannot but consider him as a familiar or daemon, seeing he
makes use of the very same device to deceive her followers,'
*as he has always employed in similar cases; I mean the
word mystery, and whatever is signified by it.
It is well known to your Lordship, that this was the
‘ grand instrument of deception, in the ancient mythology,
which St. Peter therefore calls cunningly devised fables. It
’ was by this that the priests of the heathens gained their
wealth ; their power, and their glory ; and it is by the self­
same artifice, that Joanna has done the same.
My Ixml, I wish not to believe every spirit, but try the
spirits whether they be of God. 1 have tried the spirit that
visits this woman, by this and every other criterion, and to-
my thorough conviction, it is the spirit not of Christ, biit
of antichrist.
Whoever is conversant with this woman's writings must
see, that mystery is a word that she is exceedingly fond of*
r
and whoever reads impartially, must be convinced that she
makes an instrument of it. There is hardly a word m her
writings that occurs so often, and the benefit that she derives'
from it is incalculable. It is a salve for every sore,
an universal medicine, a perfect panacea. It is sedative, ami
anodyne, more so than opium'or any other medicine, and
though pleasant, is powerful in operation, removing all ob­
structions. To be plain, it takes away all doubts, and recon­
ciles people to the greatest contradictions and absur­
dities. But as there is an evil attached to every good,
so this is not entirely free: it is a little stupifying, as it
makes people prostitute tlieir judgments, and give them­
selves up as willing sacrifices to delusion and imposture;
and this effect it has on every one that unites with this
wonderful woman, this mystery of iniquity ; for the
‘spirit that speaks in and by her, is declared to be an infal­
lible spirit, and must be implicitly obeyed and believed, even
‘at the expence of Reason, the Judgment, and the Scrip­
ture. Many of this woman's prophecies, my Ixird, had
*a time fixed for their accomplishment, but though the time
’is expired, and the thing not come to pass, we are not
allowed to say the prophecy has failed; for in so doing wt
draw a wrong judgment; there is a mystery in it that the
depravity of our judgment will not let us see, and we must
wait till it is revealed to us. This,my Lord, goes down very
7
d
Digitized by Google
$
well* the sealed people are satisfied and obedient. When tHe-
prophecies are found to fail, the people are told the pro­
phecies are eonditioml, and it was because the condition was
not fulfilled, that the thing predicted did not take place-
With this also the people are quitted, without noticing the
absurdity of conditional prophecies, or enquiring what the
condition was* Such is the stupifying effects of this mys­
terious medicine.
The followers of this woman, my Lord; are obliged to sa­
crifice their judgments, not only on account of the spiritY
infallibility, but also, because the infallible spirit has pro­
nounced the sentence of condemnation upon it : for it is
declared in Joanna's writings* that thejudgment of man is
totally depraved* This is a grand artifice, and a good foun­
dation for imposture: add to this that “ the Bib le is a sea l­
ed book," and the spirit of revelation is given to Joanna,
and no one else except her adherents, and the work is done^
implicit faith and implicit obedience naturally follow.
It adds to the woman's policy, that she has not exempted
her own judgment, from this depravity; for this she finds
very conducive to her design* as it pretendedly acco u n t
and atones for every thing in her writings that is wrong,
forgetting however the spirit’sassertion, that he indites all-
that she writes.. It is true,, Joanna sometimes makes a-
little too free with this artifice, to her own confusion* To-
instance only in that prophecy, in the Strange Effects of:
Faith, page 128, she introduces the prophecy, with the
words “ It is sald to m e,” ' which is an expression she-
often makes u&e of, and always signifies that she was told:
Buch a thing by the spirit that visits her.
But when the second edition of:that book came out, after >
the time was expired for the prophecy to be fulfilled, there
was a marginal note at the bottom of the page, expressing,
.that this prophecy was from her w n judgment. This mar­
ginal note was not in the first edition of the book, and 1^ajiY
my Lord, she made too free with the. artifice, in putting it‘
in the second, because the above.introduction “ It is sqi<f to
“mc ”and the marginal note, manifestly coutradict each otheiV
and is an undeniable proof of imposture; in which impos­
ture every one must be implicated that resists the convic­
tion it brings.
From this, my Lord, and from many more proofs in ray
other publications, it evidently appears, that this woman>
visitation is ndt of God, and also, that she is not ignorant
Digitized by Google
f
Of it. But in order to procure your Lordship's interference
for the removal of so great a nuisance, I shall bring forward,
from her writings, a few doctrines, which are evidently
heretical and antichristian; and as such, must endanger the
salvation of her adherents, but more especially those that
take the leading part: the doctrines are as follow:
v Doc. 1.—That the Bible is a Sealed Book.
Doct. 2.—That God has revealed his will to Joanna, and
to the world by her, and by no one else.
Doc. 3.—That her writings were given by inspiration of
Qod, and are an addition to the Bible.
Doct. 4.—Thatshe is a messenger from God, to announce
the second advent of the Messiah, and the near approach of
the Millennium.
Doct. That Christ has changed his sex, and is come
in the form of a woman.
Doct. 6.—That Christ gave himself a sacrifice for man,
but not for woman.
Doct. 7—That Satan^ receipt of his Doom is the means
of woman's redemption.
Doct. 8.—That Satan received his doom at what is
called Joanna's Third Trial, at the Neckinger house, Ber­
mondsey, by Joanna and her associates, when it was an­
nounced that Satan was cast and the woman freed.
Doct. 9* That Joanna herself is the grand instrument by
which man's redemption is to be effected.
1 shall have no occasion, my Lord, to prove that these
doctrines are heretical and antichristian. All },hal 1have to
do is to prove that they are in Joanna's writings: this 1shall
proceed to do.
Doct. l.—That the Bible is a Sealed Book.
This doctrine, my Lord, is fully and plainly established
in the preface to the Strange Effects of faith: in these
words “ The word of God is as a book that is sealed, so that
“ neither the learned nor the unlearned can read, (that is to
“ say, understand) i t : for it was sealed up in the bosom of
“ the Father, till he thought proper to break the seals, an<^
“ reveal it to a woman."
Whoever believes this doctrine, my Lord, is an infidel;
for infidelity is a belief that the scriptures do nM contain
the revealed will of God, which they cannot do iithe Bible
is a sealed book, for to be scaled and revealed is a manifest
contradiction. But the doctrine, my Lord, is also big with
Digitized by C j O O ^ I c
ro.
bja^phempus^ reflection^on the wisdom of the Deity; for it
must be.very absurd for God to have the scriptures 'written, if]
no one, could understand them; the absurdity, therefor?, and
blasphemy of this doctrine, deserves the severest treatment*3
Thebroacher of this ridiculous, doctrine pretends a great
veneration for the scripture and its divine author, and herein
her hypocrisy is manifest, because nothing can be a greater
ipgult tp both, .
This, my Lord, is not destroying the word of God, by
piece-meal, but is laying the axe ajt the root of the tree.
. In a late publication of Joanna's, (I cannot call it by,
because it has none) she complains, with much pre-'
tended concern against a certain society, for expunging fron^
the Bible certain parts of it. But however just and com­
mendable such, a complaint may be in, Christians, it is.irv
infidels, notorious hypocrisy; for while those are QUly.
pruning the tree, these are destroying it ropt and branch.'
And this is done by every one who says or Believes the
Bjhl& is,^8e$l?d book. This is not all ; Joanna, in saying
the Bible is a sealed book, is much worse than an open in-
^eL; fpr vyhjile, reflects only on th? blindness, of MAtf,,
8j|^ca£ts, an odium on the Deity, and, indirectly charges
him with tb? greatest absurdity. ' n
Doct. —That Qod ha^ repealed his will to#Joanna, and
^ vyorld by her, and by no one else. . - r
T tis doctrine, my Lord, will not be denied by Joanna*
typf any of her. followers, it is an essential in her proFessipm
auq frequently met with in her writings, particularly in the-
following passages* Strange Effects of Faith, page 113.—
" I snalt inform my readers, it is by the inspiration of the
Holy Ghost, my w/itings are. to bring all things to your
|;amembrance. I am]ordered to write in his name : to call
yap. bapk to the tree of knowledge* and to lay all the Bibto>
fyefore your eyes.”
Page lQS—“ I am tb§ Spirit did indite,
a That. did induce thee first to write.”
Divine and Spiritual Letters of Prophecy, page 40, “ For
I indite all she has penned.”—Page 47, “ 1 am clearly con-
“ vinced* the same spirit that inspired men to write the Bible,
“ bnth im$ired me.”
YtfhetfRr or no she is thus inspired, my Lord, is a point,
essentially necessary, and easy to be determined, and which
demands your Lordship's decision.
Digitized by Google
i t
Tour Lordship is acquainted with the scriptural method of
knowing a false prophet from a true; viz* Deut xviii.* 2 lr
22,— And if thou skalt say'i in thine heart, t hdw skaU we
Jcn,ow the word which the Lord hath hot spoken?
When a prbphet spealceth in the' name 'of'the lard, i f the
. thing, fottirw nettnor come to pass, that is the thing Mich the
Lorn hath not spoken, hut the prophet hath spoken'it presump-
_tuously. Perhaps.your Lordship has seen my Animadver­
sions on Joanna's Prophecies, which fully prove that die
has said many things by way of prophecy that have never
#come to pass, though the time was fixed/and has long been
expired.
But there is another prophecy of Joanila'a in prints which
' I beg leave to lay before your Lordship.
‘Extract of a Letter from Joanna to MissTdwtolfey, dated
“ 1804.—“ Dear Miss Townley, in consequence of Vour
“ letter, Informing me of the death' ofmybrother's s6n, 1 was
“ ordered to call to my remembrance, the"words that SVAre
“ paid to me in 1798>when Iwasfirst orderedlogo to Bristol.
“ My brother asked me, if I though^ the L6rd w6uld doahy
44wonderoiis work, when my writings were proved to cohviiico
mankind the calling was from the Lord ? Tovwidth Ttbas
answered, if he had a son, the ’Lord Would do Won’
derdus
“ works, his wife then pregdant/ but to iny great distfppolht-
46 ment, she had a daughter, and so I* was disappointed in
“ both. But deeply was it said to me, that my brother
4
4 would have a son before the Wonderbus working oithe Lord
r 44 took place.”
“ 'Now in answer to what you say of *fhe child's"deith,
“ I was answered in the following ihanner by the’Spirit.''
“ I shall now answer thee of* the child's death. Three ‘
days
“ and part of the fourth he was in couvulsions,' Which left
“ him more than an hour before his death, and he wfcs^in
“ peace at his death. Now I tell thee, three years the con-
“ vulsions of the land will last; but as they Staid Up With
44 the child the third night, expecting to see His ehd, but
“ yet it lasted great part of th^fourth day; just so I n6\Vtell
“ thee, the fourth year musthpgid from this date/blefbre hll
“ sorrows will end in this land. And know I told mee in Sftiy
14
4 1802, it would be five years from that time,' hefore^this
' “ would be a happy land. ‘Now this is one of theyefcrS for
4
4judgments to this land; in 180$ will be two years, in 1806
“ ‘wiU be three years; but a s ! told theein May, itniust fcofoe
Digitized by Google
la
wto the seventh year to bring it to May, so the child lived
“ till the fourth day, and died the fifth hour after the turn of
“ the day, in the month that I mentioned, and in the very
year, I said the signs were set forjudgments"
In this extract your Lordship observes a prophecy, that
this land would be in convulsions three years, and that in
the fourth year'the troubles would be all over, and all the
sorrows would end in this land. Your Lordship cannot
avoid taking notice, likewise, that the first of those three
years of convulsions was to be the same year the prophecy
was given, viz. 1804, the second year 1805, and the third
1806. And it appears also, that this prophecy corroborated
and corresponded with another, given in 1802, viz. that in
five years from that time, this would be a happy land: so
that 1807 was evidently the precise time fixed by the Spirit
u for England!s sorrows to end inpeace”
Your Lordship will be surprised, that this perfidious woman,
after the year 1807, should be able to support her wretched
existence, and much more, that any one of her followers
at that time should be so dreadfully infatuated, as to con­
tinue a moment longer in the delusion; and yet (shocking
to relate) they continue with her (many of them at least) to
this day; and she, with unparalleled presumption, continues
to use the name of the Lord, as if all her prophecies had
been fulfilled. What a dreadful picture of human depravity
both in the woman and her adherents!!!
Here, my Lord, are two prophecies, with their time fixed
as plain as words will admit of; the time has long been ex­
pired, and the things predicted never come to pass; this%
therefore, is the thing that the Lord hath not spoken, and,
therefore, Joanna is a false prophet, and consequently the
Lord hath not revealed his will to her, nor to the world by
her.
Doct. 3. That her writings were given by inspiration,
and are an addition to the Bible.
The above quotation, my Lord, that proves the last doc­
trine to be in the writings, proves this to be there also; and
as to the writings being an addition to the Bible, it is ex­
pressly asserted in the 49th page of the Strange Effects of
Faith, thus, “ I must'beg to assign some reason why my
4
6writings are spoken so much in verse. Verse is an addition
4t to words, and so is mine to the Bible." This, my Lord,
is very plain language, Your Lordship must see the impro-
Digitized by Google
IS
priety of such an union: first, because it is unnecessary, the
Bible is perfect without it; and secondly, because there is no
prophetic account of any such thing in the Bible. We read
indeed, that false prophets shall arise, but no where that
true ones shall. Thirdly, it is very unlikely that the Lord
should make any addition to his written word after it has
been closed for near two thousand years. By your Lord­
ship's permission, I shall give a reason why I disapprove of
such a union; and that is, because the two books are hete­
rogeneous in their nature. Joanna trys indeed to make one
believe, that one spirit pervades them both; but whoever
reads her writings, and penetrates a little beneath the sur­
face, will perceive a snake in the grass, full of enmity
against the word of truth, and that endeavours to eclipse its
beauty by the false lustre of this mysterious nonsense.
Joanna, in the artr of match-making, seems very un-'
lucky: she has made a match between Christ and herself,
declaring herself to be the bride, the Lamb's wife, that he is-
very fond of her, and even enraptured with her wisdom and
discourse; and yet, if we read the 14th and 15th pages of
What Manner of Communications are These, we shall find
the bridegroom charged with leaving his bride, and that
without any provocation, and sufferiug the devil to throw
her into the greatest agonies and torments imaginable; and
it was a long time before he returned, and then, not without
voDies of prayers, and floods of tears: this is a little repug­
nant to conjugal affection. The match between the Bible
and her writings is not much better, for they are no sooner
united than they quarrel with one another; the writings ex­
claim against the Bible, and the Bible condemns the writ­
ings. The Bible says the writings are a cunningly devised
fable, and the doctrine of devils. The writings say the
Bible is full of contradictions. The Bible professes to be
light, the Light of life. The writings declare it to be total
darkness, a scaled book, unintelligible, and not to be un­
derstood. And as the friends of a husband will expose and
traduce the actious and faults of a wife, and the friends of a
wife those of the husband; so 1 have often heard Jbanna's
friends depreciate the scripfures, and represent them in the
worst light, in order to remove the odium that attaches to
Joanna's writings. The friends of Joanna are aware that
her writings abound with things that are low, silly, childish,
mead, contemptible, and in order to keep themselves in
B
/ Digitized by Google
'Countenance as the abettors of such trpsb, 1 have known
those chapters picked out, and stigmatically commented on,
that (to people not very firm) may be made to appear con­
temptible also: and this is done tojustify the union, and
render feasible the divinity of those writings, the most ab­
surd and blasphemous that ever disgraced the British press-
One of these chapters is the 4th of Ezekiel, which
*1 have heard read in their public assemblies, in such a
manner, as manifested in the reader a much greater regard
’for Joanna and her writings, than for God and his written
word.
Those persons that are thus disposed to invalidate the
scriptures, in order to bring them on a level with Joanna’s
writings, I wish them to consider, that God, in his commu­
nications with man, accommodates himself to man’s state and
condition. Now the state and condition of man in Ezekiel’
s
time, (1 mean his mental state), was very different to what
it is now, and I am persuaded, that if God was now to im­
part any thing to man, either prophetic or preceptive, it
would he done in a different manner, and in language more
adapted to the present state ofthings, than it is pretended to
be done in Joanna’s writings, or to what it was in the time
of the prophets. And I must observe, that if the scripture
is the word of God, an insinuating detraction of it cannot
be very pleasing to its divine author. And, for mv own part,
I would rather exert myself in rendering the Bible com­
patible with reason, than indulge a thought against it,
being fully assured it contains the Revealed Will op
CIod,
Further, Joanna joins her writings with the scripture;
hut not satisfied with the presumption of doing it on equal
terms, makes the latter subservient to the former, declaring
that her writings art an infallible explanation of the Bible,
which (being also pronounced as totally inexplicable without
that divine assistance that she pretends to have) is so ex­
plained by her, as to favour her views, and feed the pride
aud vanity of her deceitful heart, pointing to her as the
grand object of attention and admiration ! Thus she is the
barren woman that was to be a joyful mother of children,
and those children are the sealed people, and those
children are the seed of the woman that is to bruise the
serpent’s head. She is also the woman cloathed with the
sun, and the bride the Lamb’s wife. And as she has heaped
14
yGoogle
up honours on herself, so (Buonaparte like) 6hq-bas not for­
got her relatives, Your Lordship will recollect what was?
said above* concerning her brother, viz. that if he had a?
son, (his wife being then pregnant) the Lord would do won-:
droui worksr This was a mark of distinction, and atten­
tion, (if true) paid by the Lord, to her brother and his son,;
supposing he should then have one ; and though she was dis­
appointed, yet we find “ it was deeply said to her, that her
4
4 brother would have a son, before the wondrous workings of
4
4 the Lord took place*’. This d eep declaration of the spirit*,
was also a token of distinction and honour. She several
times strove, and that very hard, to make out her father to
be (what she calls) a type to the nation ; but it is curious-
to see, haw repeatedly she was disconcerted in her projects,
which she was obliged to make known, on account of the*
failure of her unwarrantable prophecies. A particular* ac­
count of this may he seen in a letter from Joanna, to the
Rev. Mr. Foley, page 29, of Divine and Spiritual Letters
of Prophecy.
. Doct. 4. That Joanna is a messenger front the Lord, to*
announce the second advent of the Messiah, and near ap­
proach of the millennial.'
For a proof of this, rjnust refer your Lordship to page 5
of the Strange Effects of Faith, where these words are
recorded:—“ fn 17£)2, 1was strangely visited by day and
“ night, concerning what was coming upon the whole earthi
u 1 was then ordered to set it down in writing/* That what
was here said to be coming on the earth, was the millen-*
mum, and thejudgments preperatory thereto, 1refer to page*
37 and 68, of the Warning to the World, or to my Ani­
madversions on the Prophecies, page 10. “ The end of
“ all things is at hand, that satan’s kingdom will be de-
4
5 stroyed, and satan chained down for a thousand years,
u and Christ's kingdom establishedjipon earth.** The second
advent is announced in the 6th page of What Manner of
Communications are These. “ 1 am come the world for to
“ redeem."
Doct. 5. That Christ has changed his sex, and is come
in the form of a woman. This, my Lord, in Joanna's
writings is every where asserted ; but for brevity's sake, I
-shall let one instance suffice, Divine and Spiritual Letters of
Prophecy, page 46,
4
4 My spirit is already come,
“ You'll find me in the woman's form."
T5
Digitized by Google
Wife* I repeatedly met with this very odd'expression in
the writings, I was much at a loss to know what to make of
i t ; and though I could see no metaphorical, allegorical, or
mystical meaning in it, yet 1 could hardly pursuade myself,
that a literal meaning was intended, till after a very close
examination. But when I met with a passage in the Answer
to Brothers’s last Book, page 20, 1 was satisfied that
(astonishing as such an expression is,) it has no other than a
literal, and the true and right meaning of it is9 that Christ
is made a woman. The words are these, '
“ But all shall see the mystery,
M The woman here 1 am made."
This expression, my Lord, is most surprisingly absurd,
and deserves the strongest marks ofyour Lordship s displea­
sure. The spirit that is represented as dwelling in Joanna,^
rin the woman’s form, speaking with her mouth, writing
with her hands, and walking with her feet, calling himself
Christ, and Jfesus, and the Son o f ^ o h ; here declares
himself to be made a woman. .
If it should be asked, if any onp has seen this strange wo-*
man, that was once a man, thistSnale Messiah l the an*
swer is plain. Hast thou seen Joarja ? Thou has seen this
metamorphosed Christ also. It is noticeable, that the same
turn of m|nd, which induces a person to be a false prophet,
inclines him also to be a false Christ. This is confirmed by
the history of many impostors, and I can account for this
ridiculous and blasphemous expression from no other
source. It is reasonable to suppose, that the same propensi­
ties might operate together in' a woman, . as well as in a
jnan, and supposing they did so in our prophetess, the doc­
trine is traced to its origin, she could claim the messiahsbip
on no oth( r footing.
Joanna somewhere observes, that in her writings are many
things hard to be believed, and harder to be understood. I
suppose, she intended this as one of them. One would
have thought,,that such a doctrine would have’put to flight
every one of her followers : But alas! extravagant as it is,
it has produced no such effect. For even three clergymen,
that took up her cause in the beginning, continue with her
to this day; to which number, more have since been added
of the same sacred order.
Digitized by Google
\r
Doct. 6. That Christ gave himself a sacrifice for man,
but not for woman.
This doctrine, my Lord, as well as in other places, is
recorded in a book, called a Word to the Wise, page 12*
“ For man’s transgression I did die,
“ And for them did atone :
“ But still the woman's guilt doth lie,
“ Till satan feels his doom”.
This doctrine is not very likely to meet your Lordship’s
approbation, any more than the last, and 1 trust it will be
treated with deserved contempt. But how will your Lord-
ship be surprized, to find in the pamphlet inclosed, entitled
Charges against Joanna SouthcoU, and the Twelve Judges,
&c. that the woman wasj'edeemed at Joanna’s Trial, by the
lifting up of hands of those that were present, viz. tha
clergy and many other gentlemen* .
Doct. 7* That satan’s reception of his 'doom is the means
of woman’s redemption.
This doctrine, my Lord, is established in the lines above
cited.
u "But still the woman’s guilt doth lie, ,
“ Till satan feels his doom.
Poet. 8. That satan received his doom at the trial.
' This is confirmed, my Lord, in the book called the Trial,, ,
page 134, where satan is announced to be cast, and the
• woman freed, by the lifting up of bands.
Doct. <). That Joanna herself is the grand instrument by
which the redemption of man is to be effected.
This doctrine, my Lord, is established, in the 103d page
ef the Strange Effects of Faith.
“ Your full redemption you can. ne’er attain,
“ But by the woman, whom I did ordain
“ To be your.helpmate in your sore distress,
u And in the end compleat your happiness!”
Your Lordship will see several more quotations, in the
second number of my Friendly Address to the followers of
Joanna Soethcott, that fully prove this to be one of her
established and favourite doctrines.
Digitized by Google
IS
Tims, ray Lord, I presume I have sufficiently proved that
these nine points of doctrine a^e deducible from this woman’*
writings; of which proofs many more might easily be collected.
And as to the pronouncing them heretical and antichristian, I
am sure your Lordship will not allow yourself a moment's he4
*
sitation.
It is on this ground then, my Lord, that I most earnestly
supplicate your Lordship to brings this weighty concern to an.
issue. If the Christian religion is true, the doctrines here set
forth undeniably condemn tnose that hold them; and if they
are in no danger, thousands of martyrs have bled in vain; for
these doctrines are as heretical, antichristian, and blasphemous
as any of the Roman's or Pagan’s. For my own part, I can
0 -e no more harm in saying that Christ is made bread, than in
asserting he is made a woman; and I am well persuaded, it is
as easy to pray departed spirits out of purgatory, as to free-
woman from the fall, by lilting of bauds. Joanna asserts that
her stripes are to accomplish man’s redemption!!! I know of
no doctrine in the church of Rome halfso presumptuous.
The Pope sold indulgences, Joanna gives them away. For
all that is required whereby to be saved, is faith in her mission*
- The Roman Catholicks pray, to the Virgin Mary as the
mother of God: Joanna’s followers look up to,her as thd
hride, the Lamb’s wife. To continue the similie, the Pope
professed to have the keys of Heaven, Joanna pretendsto have
the self-same thing.
The -Pope is absolute in his church, so is Joanna in hers.
The Pope is infallible, and Joanna is directed by a spirit that
cannot err. Implicit faith and implicit obedience is enjoined
. the Romans and the followers of Joanna.
Thus, my Lord, if we reasonably protest against the ehurch
of Rome, even to the suffering martyrdom, it behovea us (in
- my opinion) from the same principle, to suppress, so far as in
Vs lies, such blasphemous doctrines as those, above-men­
tioned, and therefore* I presume Ido no more thau my duty, ia
supplicating your Lordsnip on this account. t
From what hasjust been observed it appears, my Lord*, that
this woman is, in many respects, the image of the Pope, anA
her writings the transcript of the church of Rome. I could
with equal facility, also draw a parallel between our pro­
phetess and Uie impostor Mahomet; but it would *be inexcus­
able, not to expose a likeness between Joanna’s delusion and
that of the Ancient Mythology. These Pagans had their ora-
cles; and the followers of Joanna have an oracle, that bears a
Striking likeness to theirs. ’ -
When the oracle seemed to speak, ft is agreed, that either
the devil or some human being spoke in him, but which i* not
determined: and it it hardly determinable when Joanna pre­
tends to receive a communication, whether she speaks of her*
Digitized by Google
•elf, or the evil spirit speaks in her. However it must be
ofrned, my Lord, that there is this difference* the agent
in the oracffc made use of his own mouth, not the oracles * but
the agent in Joanna makes use of Joanna's?
And there is also this difference. The Heathen oracle ad­
dressed himself to the audience, but Joanna speaks to herself*
Joanna's making the spirit address himself to her, when he
makes use of her mouth, your Lordship must perceive to be a
very great defect in her ingenious scheme; and whoeVcr takes
notice of it, must acknowledge it such a blunder as saps the
foundation of her pretensions. She has endeavoured so to con­
trive her mission, as that it may be like the sacred missions of
old, and she asserts that it is so* but, my Lord, it is certain
(unless, as Joanna says, the Bible is a sealed book) that when
the Spiritspake in the prophets and Apostles, lie did not address
himselfto them, but toothers; and in my estimation,for Joanna
to address Joanna in this manner, and to say it is the Holy
Ghost speaking to hdr* is a most ridiculous absurdity. Again,
my Lord. The religion of the Heathens consisted in mysteries
and fabulous nonsense; so does that of Joanna, jas has already
been hinted.
Mystery, Visions, Dreams, &c. compose the grand Pabu»
turn of the delusion. Thus the deluded people, fascinated by
the craft and hypocrisy of this deceitful woman, forsake the
word of God, the Fountain of living waters, and hew out fo r
themselves cisterns, broken cisterns that(an hold no water. Fof
this cause it cannot be wondered at, that God should sendthem
strong delusions that they may believe a lie $ For the Lord is
jealous of his word, and will not be indifferent at the Bible's
being called a sealed book, and dreams and visions used in its
stead.
1 have observed, my Lord, that there is not a word that
this deceiver seems so fond of as the word mystery 5 and there
is uot a word so well adapted for the use of people of her
description, because it is best calculated to deceive. Mystery
is musick in the ear, while in the eye it is nothing but dust.
It harmonizes the greatest contradiction, changes the greatest
absurdities into superlative and admired sense, and makes pre­
sumptuous ignorance pass for bold and profound wisdom.
Thus a person that pretends to deal in mysteries, is looked
u^on as a being more than human, is resorted to by all yanks
ot people, and by many idolized. Ido not say that Joanna
requires to be treated as a goddess, bjplf'that to be universally
admired is her predominant passion, is obvious to any person
of the leastdiscernment. And this passion, 1believe,is the main
spring and parent of the delusion. Ye shallbe as Gods! is pro­
bably the most deadly .poison that was ever infused into the hu­
man breast. Joanna is conscious that she is liable, from her
writings, to be thus censured, and to avoid it asserts, “ that of
19
Digitized by Google
“ herself she is tto more than any otherperson.** Bat thoug&
this assertion is the pretended fruit of humility, yet, I am per­
suaded, it is the disguised offspring of pride; for if she Is no­
thing in herself, yet if her account is true, she must be high
in the favour of that being -who singled her out from amongst
the human race, and distinguished her in that astonishing
manner,that is set forth in her writings. And she knows very
well, that every one who believes in her, must see those distin­
guishing favours and honours, and thereby be constrained to
pay her that homage she so much desires. That this confes­
sion of being nothing in herself, is not only intended as a test
of humility, but is also received as such by the people, I am
well convinced, as it is in every one’s month 4
4that in herself
she is nothing.” But their so receiving it, is to me a mark o f
great weakness: for the favourite of a king is frequently
prouder than that prince that raised him to honour, notwith­
standing the latter is independent, and the former a tenant at
will; and it is well known, that the Pharisee in the gospel,
though proud of his endowments, ascribed them not to him-
self, hut to God, by giving him thanks for them.
But to return, I trust 1nave said enough to prevail upon
your Lordship to interfere in this important concern: if not,
my Lord, I have something more to offer. The people are
dying, and ordering their seals to be put in their coffins, wbicfc<
evinces that their hopes of eternal life are built on this sandy
foundation.
It is therefore high time that this deluded people should be
Matched a» brands out erfthe burning. And it is in your Lord-
ship’s power to put an end to the delusion with the greatest
facility, viz. by banging her to trial: for she has given it out,.,
and it is universally expected and daily looked for amongst the
sealed, that she shall be brought to trial: that a most awful
trial will take place; that her person will be arrested, and her
writings demanded bv the great, the learned, and the power­
ful: that at this awnil trial she shall be thrown into a trance*,
in which she is to lay three days and a half; then to return to-
the body, tell her friends what she has seen, and tbttn to die-
These things* my Lord, are to take place as a proof of her
mission; and it is Affirmed, that her death wilt convince more
than her life. At her death the power of Satan is to be taken
Away, (happy period!) and the power of working miracles be
given to her followers. Now, my Lord, as this trial is to (and
must) be the test and decision of nor pretensions, and as many
hundreds must, till then, be involved in guilt and ruin, f
humbly request that your Lordship will cause sneh a trial
speedily to take place. This no one, even the woman’s most
cordial friends, can feel no aversion to; yea, they must even
Wish for H, seeing it is at this awful period that tjie millen­
nium must commence. Such a trial, my Lord, must be pro-
20
'X .
Digitized by U o o t f l e
Cl
ductive'bf themost happyconsequence*; for asthe miUeamum
must then take place, if her pretensions are true, so if they ar«
not true, it wtHbe her confusion, andthe conviction of every
one of her followers. Such a trial will at firststrengthen the
faith of the believers, because it is predicted; but as your
Lordship will not so easily dispense with the trance as her
judges did at the Neckinger, it must terminate in their
conviction.
Neither the prediction of such a trial, nor its accomplish*
ment, afford any proof of her mission; for any person,
without a revelation, might sanguiuely expect and clearly seet
that such imposture would one day be detected. When this
is done, she will perhaps own, that the prophecy came from
her own judgment: as she has confessed, that that did, in
page 128 of Die Strange Effects of Faith, although when she
wrote the prophecy she ascribed it to the Spirit of God> by
saying, 4
4 It is said to me.”
But in importuning with your Lordship to bring this woman
to trial, 1have another argument to offer; in page 91 of the
book called the Trial, the Spirit says to Joanna, “ All that
will happen till ray kingdom is established, is in thy writings.”
Now, my Lord, if this is true, it must be for the interest ot the
state and the public to examine those writings, and 1 cannot
but consider it as a fraud on the public to keep those things
concealed; seeing that according to this woman's own words
they were revealed to her not to be concealed from the public,
but to be made known without reserve; for iu page 47 of the
Strange Effects of Faith, the Spirit says to her, 4
4To conceal
4
4the secrets of a king is honourable, but to conceal the secrets
4
4of the Lord is sinful:’’ from which passage, my Lord, it is
evidently this womau’s duty, to make known to the public
whatever will happen to England and other nations during the
present state of things.
This woman’s knowledge of futurity, my Lord, is also
declared in page 16 of the Strange Effects of Faith, 4
4Thus by
“ types, shadows, dreams, and visions, l have been led on from
4
4 1:92 to the present day, whereby the mysteries of the Bible,
with the future destinies of nations* have been revealed to me,
4
4which will all terminate in the second coming of Christ and
“day of Judgment, when the seven thousand years are ended.”
From which we are given to understand, that her knowledge
extends not only to the end of the present state of things, but
also during the millennium, till the end of seven thousand
years. But Mr. Tozer goes further still, and boldly asserts,
that Joanna knows every thing that the Lord will do to all
eternity.
As a further confirmation that she is »n possession of tbi*
fore-knowledge, she declareiyin the next page, viz; 27, that
Digitized by Google
-flic Lord promised her that he would keep nothing from her*.
And again,
Page 58, •*How canthis thing e’er be,
* “ That all the secrets of the Lord
“ Shall be revealed to thee?
“ Tet so they’ll find it certain is.”
* Your Lordship, therefore, must see the propriety* of ex--
mmining both the woman and her writings, and the utility of
Such an examination (if they are true) is as obvious as its pro*
priety; for as she asserts that her prophecies are conditional,
the government, by the foreknowledge they would attain by
this method, might be able to save a great expence both of
money and blood; and if it is not true, if there is no fore­
knowledge from Joanna’s pen nor Joanna’s mouthy she ought
to feel the weight of your Lordship’s displeasure.
If your Lordship shall require any further information con­
cerning this momentous business, 1 am ready to wait upon your
Lordship whenever summoned, and shall think it an honour
answer your Lordship’s interrogations.
I shall take leave, my Lord, to add one point of doctrine
more to the nine, to complete the decalogue; and your Lord-
ship will see that it is neither unjust nor improper. Having
too much vain-glory to he satisfied with being a mere prophet*
she asserts in her artful way, that she is the mediator of a new*
covenant: 1 say, in her artful way, that is, by pretending and
asserting that all comes from the Spirit.
The book, my Lord, in which this new covenant is set
forth, is known amongst the sealed by different titles. It i*
called the book of letters; also, What Mannerof Communica­
tions are These; but in general it is called Folie’s Book,
because it was published by a clergyman of that name, la­
this book, my Lord, this new covenant is set forth in language
so much above my capacity and comprehension, that it ap­
pears to me to be nothing but nonsense. The most proper per­
son to explain it to your Lordship isthe Rev. Gentleman that
published the book* However, my Lord, this much may be
fairly gathered, viz. that it is an eutire new covenant* and
that it seperpedesthe gospel covenant, which is therefore now
called the O ld—page 20. And it is declared, that the Lord
enters into this New Co v en a n t wilh man by the mediation of
, the woman, that a i.l t h e old may be done away* This N ew
Covenant, my Lord, agrees vrith the old one in some things,
and in some it does not. It holds forth salvation by faith like
the Gospel, but then it*dift’
ers as to the object of that faith;
the object of gospel faith being the mission of Ch r is t , while
the object of t h i s is the mission of J oanna. The Gospel
Covenant requires holiness of heart and life, as a meetness to
be partakers with the saints in light, but there is no such thing
required in the New Covenant; it is a thing that is scarce ever
23
Digitized by Google
mentioned in her inspired writings or in their assemblies.
The new covenant enjoins obedience and repentance; the ob­
jects of obedience is the Commands of thk IVoman>asserted
by her to comefrom the spirit, and what w'e are to repent of is,
that we have taken any notice of our Saviour's caution against
false prophets, and for believing that to be a false Christ that
is come iu the form of a woman; and also for believing this
woman to be a false prophet because her prophecies have
failed. There is also a material difference in sealing the sub­
jects of those two covenants, those of the Gospel Covenant
being sealed with the Holy Spirit of Promise, Eph. 1. xiii. and
those of the New Covenant, with a piece of paper and an im­
pression on wax.
This, my Lord, is the blasphemous covenant that this im­
postor says the Lord is now making with man through her;
which assertion,.in my opinion, deserves the contempt of every
Christian, and the correction of the h ig h e r to w er s. My
impressions, my Lord, impels me again most earnestly to
supplicate your Lortfship's interference, for, without this, it is
-not likely the deluded people will be convinced of their danger.
The people, my Lord, are evidently kept in blindness and ig­
norance by priestcraft: and though the Lord is laying his
afflicting hand on the priests, the people lay it not to heart.
The Lord, by afflicting the preachers and putting them to con­
fusion, as well as by disappointing them repeatedly of their
expectations, cries aloud “ T h is is no t my cause. But when
this is the case, those that feed upon the loaves and fishes,
throw dust in the people’s eyes,and thunder in their ears, that
those who are sealed will find the Lord on their side at last,
let his workings seem never so much against them. If I had
been afflicted as three of Joanna's preachers out of four have
been, since l began publishing against her, every one would
have cried out the judgments of God, the judgments of
God.
Where is the man, I would ask the sealed, that first sounded
the trumpet of this new dispensation in this metropolis, and
boldly preached Joanna in Loudon} The Lord soon deprived
him of his canonical robes, and he has lived a dog's life, and
worse than a dog's life ever since : for a dog, though he lives
a life of hunger, enjoys his ease; but this preacher is often
obliged to make brick without straw, and though he bears the
heat and burthen of the day, receives but a penny. Besides, a
dog is caressed by his master, and his master’s house; but this
man is neglected, rejected, and forlorn: though he was at
first considered as their champion, and very much respected,
he is now even despised; yea, though he is still ^ery zealous in
the cause, and one of the firmest believers, he is looked upon
with jealousy, and suspected of being disaffected : moreover,
though he reverences Joanna as a goddess, and cringes to her
25
Digitized by G r O O ^ l c
u
as to a pope, yet his homage is despised, and his submission
treated with disdain
Such, iny Lord, is the man that first planted this thistle of
impostpre in London : and I would ask those who were lately
the constant hearers of a sweet singer in this spiritual Israel in
Holborn, where is the man from whose lips the blessedness of
the millennium, the excellency of Joanna, and the divinity of
her mission, dropped as the honeycomb? Once more 1ask, why
Joanna is not preached and her books read at the chapel oil
Sunday evenings as usual? Why has this been so long neglected?
Answer—Because the youug nian that officiated has been
for a long time ill! This is three of this woman’s preachers
out of four; one is left as yet, to shew the mercy and
long-suffering of God* Let him that standeth take heed lest
he fall.
This man, my Lord, is a Boanerjas, a son of thunder, aud
does more by making a great noise, than by enlightening the
understanding. He has a licence to preach the gospel, yet
never a word of genuine Christianity drops from his lips,
neither would it be consistent or honest to set forth a religion
so opposite to that of his employer. He takes a text to be
sure out of the Bible, but such a one as will bear bending,
twisting, turning, and having worked it as rope-makers work
their hemp, he twists it up with the woman’s writings, and
the sacred text is buried in corruption. The Bible is then laid
aside, and the woman’s books put in its place, out of which
the happy period of the millennium is set forth and expa­
tiated on, and its approach declared to be very near, even
at the door. But as this happy period is to be preceded by
the most tremendous judgments, these of course become a
necessary part of the discourse. These two, viz. the mil­
lennium, and the judgments prelusive to It, is generally the
burden of the discourse, which is ornamented with panegy­
rics on Joanna, the excellency and superiority of her writing*
above all others, and that grand support which that superi­
ority affords the mission. If your Lordship should enquire
why the millennium cannot take place without such judg­
ments ? I have to answer, because the Spirit, (that female
Christ from whom this impostor pretends to have all her know­
ledge) told her, that none but the sealed people should enjoy
his Kingdom upon the earth, and that as soon as 144,000 were
sealed, the rest should be cut off, and his glorious kingdom
be immediately established. The number sealed is however
as yef very short of 144,000 but to make up that num­
ber, people are to be compelled by judgments to apply for
seals, aud to beg and pray for them. On this account, my
Lord, they, the.woman's deluded followers, are constantly
looking out fpr judgments, and wishing for them; on which
account'they are the most constant readers of newspaper*^
Digitized by Google
« d (torrid to rdite) for no other end than that of feasting
uponjudgments. When ttoy find the papers teem with these
thee are pleased, but when it is otherwise they are shagrined
and disappointed. In the beginning, though the millennium
was much wished for, yet the judgments were looked upon
with horror, as well they may; but as Custom destroys the
sensibility of the surgeon’s feelings, hardens the botcher’s
heart, and renders the spilling of human blood familiar to the
soldier: so these people, having the judgments continually
sounded intheir ears, are become obdurate and callous,and can
talk of thejudgments with as much pleasure as of the millen*
nium. Yea, though their minister (while in the desk) reads
the prayer againstjudgments, and pretends to pray that the
Lord would avert’them, yet, when he is in the pulpit, he has
the audacity to offer up the desires of his heart without dis­
guise, and even prays tliat the judgments may come on; and
I amcredibly informed, he lately prayed that the quartern loaf
might soon be half a crown $ and all the people cried ament
The preacher’s repeating .the prayer against the judg- .
ments is mocking God to nis face, seeing nothing is more
foreign to his wishes, and nothing can be more disasterous to
his cause, than to have such a prayer granted: but it is a pity,
my Lord, that a licence to preach the gospel should he pros­
tituted to such sordid purposes ! I am not afraid, ifty Lord, of
this man's prayers, though, as I am the greatestenemy to the
cause, he must necessarily pray for my destruction in parti*
cular; but 1am afraid, if such daring and blasphemous impos­
ture is not suppressed, the hand of the Lord will be severely
felt on that account. I am very much afraid, my Lord, that
nothing but your Lordship’s interference will stem the torrent
of this great and increasing evil, because many people besides
the preachers have an advantage from it, and all these will use
all the sophistry they are possessed of to keep up the delusion*
“ believing no blame can fall on their Leads,” but especially
the preachers, who are the best able and have the best oppor­
tunity of keeping the people in ignorance * so long as the
preacher has the power of enslaving the minds of his hearers,
all remonstrances are in vain. They ate easily prevented from
seeing and hearing. This, my Lord, is the only thing that
keeps the delusion alive in this city: but your Lordship
has it in your power to destroy it without any difficulty, by
bringing the offender to trial; for that (if the cause is of God)
will be followed or rather prevented, by a three day’s and a
half trance, and that immediately followed by her death, and
accompanied by the power of working miracles invested in
the sealed people.
If your Lordship will condescend to peruse a pamphlet, sent
with this, viz. Charges against the Twelve Judges, &c. yon
will find some things, my Lord, that for novelty, absurdity,
C
*5
Digitized by Google
fndpresumption, have never had their equal. The book coot
tains Strictures on the Trial at Bermondsey, in 1804. Your
Lordship (if not in possession of this knowledge,) will be a
little surprizedto find, that at this memorable trial, a promise
was c laim ed of the Judge of all the earth, who (it is said)
gave a promise.to the human race, at the fall, b«&
t (we find)
was never faithful enough to fulfil it! And also that at this
trial, satan was cast, ana woman has freed from the fall-of
Adam, and the curse of the Law!!! These things, my Lord,
are so extravagantly wild, that they mpst (by every one) have
been imputed to an intellectual derangement, had this woman
only been concerned in it. But when it is . recollected,
that a considerable number of people assisted at the ceremo­
nies, forty-eight of whom were appointed to conduct the
trial, this idea is done.away. But what wdl surprize your
Lordship most, is, that several of the clergy, should be at
the head of all this presumptuous nonsense; i believe this is
the most particular, and most melancholy instance of humata
imbecility, that your Lordship ever heard of. 1 have seen
a letter, ray Lord, that a Bev. Gentleman (who favors the wild
.pretensions and base imposture of this woman) sent to Joanna,
ps soon as he was translated out of gospel d&rkbem, into her
marvellous light; in which he acknowledged, that though he
bad been a preacher forty years,, he never understood his
bible till, then!!! And this, my Lord, must be the language
of all the ministers that belong to it, varying only the num­
ber of years.
' I cannot forbear taking notice to your Lordship, of the
manifest imposture of this woman concerning the millenium,
and the blindness of these ministers and others in not discern-
jng the same. The near approach of this expected period, is
what she (as well as many other impostors) pretends to be
jhc harbinger of. In this profession, my Lord, (as it appears
to me) she found herself in a predicament, (something like
ihe trance) of which impostors are never free. The peoplethat
are alive at the commencement of the millennium, ajre never
to die, and this circumstance is set forth in her writings, as a
most desirable object, and a blessing peculiarly preserved for
her followers. But here a difficulty arose, If any of her fol­
lowers enjoyed this greatest of all blessings KEVBR TO DIB,
it was unreasonable to suppose that she herself should not;
.yet, knowing in herself, that her pretentions were a cheat,
and that she and her followers were as likely to die as other
people, and having asserted (perhaps inadvertently) that she
should pay the debt of .nature; she was a little puzzled, and
(probably after much deliberation,) recourse was had to her
common method ; the spirit roust do the business. Her Magi
u applied to, and Christ is reported as having given her a
Choice, either to live or die. 1 shall transcribe it verbatim,
Digitized by Google
Eighth Fart of the Strange Effects of Fajth,'page 75,. “ I was
“ ordered ?to chuse one of these two things, viz. .to have an
inheritance given me with my brethren and fellow-labourers
“ in the Lord; or, when 1 had finished my work which the
“ Lord had given me to do, to.depart this life and be with
“ Christ. So death and life was put to my choice: but as my
“ desire is not for this world, but to he with Christ, which is
“ far better, 1 gave the following answer, which is the desire
“ of my sot;l, out never intended to have made it public,
“ though np.w. I am commanded to do it. It is as fo llo w s-
“ .Ob my God, my answer is ready; when 1 have finished the
“ work thou hast given me to do for thy honour and great
“ glory, and good °f mankind, let me, I pray thee, have a
“ building with God eternal in the Heavens.’*
In this CHOICE your Lordship will observe first, that her
choice was not to enjoy the millennium, though a period so
desirable and a blessing so great, as to be the burden of the
sdng and substance of all her writings; but her choice (after
all her deceitful parade about the millennium) is to share the
Jot of every Christian, viz. to die and be with Christ; which
plainly proves, that all the noise she has made about that pe­
riod, is nothing bjut craft and deceit. Secondly, your Lord­
ship will observe the reasofi of her choice, “ It isfar better
That is, it is far better to die, and to .go to heaven with
other Christians, than to enjoy the millennium with the sealed
people and her, fellow-labourers. Where then is the blessing
of the millennium? And this is that 'period that cannot bp
brought in but by the most tremendous judgments. Alas!
if it is better, fa r b e t t e r to die, than to enjoy this period
that must be bought arso dear a rate, how much greater is
the cost than the purchase? especially when it is considered
that if it isfar better to die than enjoy it, then it must be far
worse to enjoy it than to die; consequently, to be obliged to
live in the millennium must, according to this cunning wo­
man’s account, be a curse instead of a blessing, and as this is
the fate of her fellow-labourers, according to the words inthe
Choice, I lepve them to reflect on the blessed consequences of
being the seed of the woman, and fellow-labourers with the
bride the lamb’s wife, who, to reward their fidelity and obe­
dience, is soon (together with her bridegroom) to depart for
the realms of bliss, and be seated on the throne of God,
leaving them behind in a state “ far worse than death”
From these observations, my Lord, the imposture of this
woman, in this one instance, is so glaring, that the most pre­
judiced reader cannot but see it; and yet, so much as this
circumstance is against her, it has never been taken the least
notice of till now. Thirdly, it is observable, my Lord, from the
Choice that Joanna's fellow-labourers are to have an inheri­
tance here below. Yet I heard one of her chief fellow-
*7
Digitized by
Yibotiffersaay inqbe pulpit, Hiathe *ftt to accompany Jom m I
to Heaven. This, my Lord, looks like a contradiction. The
gentleman spoke it with an air of triumphantjoy, yet the same
gentleman is very profuse in magnifying the blessings and
blessedness of the millennium.' i wish to ask that gentleman,
and every one of the sealed, supposing they had their choree,
like Joanna, if they would not all to an individual torn their
hacks on their much exalted millennium, and esteem it MUCH
BETTER with their patroness to die and go to Heaven ? Bui
as they are denied this privilege and this choice, and mustlive
in the millennium, whether they would or nob, being sealed
for that same purpose, 1 ask them if it is nob ‘*/*r better'*
not to be sealed than to be sealed? And once more I ask,
whether from these questions and observationsa sufficient mo­
tive does not arise to treat the seal, the sealing, and the sealer,
with the utmost contempt and ridicule.
'I have now, my Lord, intruded much on your Lordships
time and patience. But 1believe your Lordship is convinced
• that the CAUSE justifies the deed; and which will therefore
plead my excuse, and procure yotir Lordship’s pardon. If in
addressing a person of your Lordship's exaltea rank, and di»
-tiaction, 1have been negligent in regard to ceremony, or in*
decorous in any other respect, I trust your Lordship will int'-
pute it to my ignorance, rather than to indifference and
inattention j and from the goodness of your Lordship’s dtspo*
sition, 1shall expect forgiveness, for every such offence, and
shall venture, my Lord, to subscribe myself,
Your Lordship?*
Most dutiful,
Most obedient,
And most humble servant,
R. HANK,
2*
Printed uy J. brnitli, 17, Quttu btreei, Seven Dia s.
Digitized by Google
