{"name":"A Word To The Wise Or A Call To The Nation","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1810__southcott___a_word_to_the_wise_or_a_call_to_the_nation.pdf","mytitle":"A Word To The Wise Or A Call To The Nation","mylang":"de"}
'f V •
'-/ /f r f •
q M t .& /'/ t ? a o io ^*3 r 'l ? C &
W
''* *
=B*
A WORD TO THJ? JV ISE;
OR,
A CALL TO THE NATION,
“i , \
That they may know the days of their Visitation, from, the
Prophecies that are given to Joanna Southcott, with the
■.Reasons assigned why the Spirit o f Prophecy is given to
a Woman; and which is explainedfrom the Scriptures
. in the following pages.
JO A N N A SOUTHCOTT.
Olthliinford; August 3 1 , 1803.
la?r
&
t
as my Prophecies are many and extend
-to large volumes, that the poor cannot buy them,
if they should wish to know the meaning of them,
.1 shall here explain them in a small compass.for
rthe sake ofthe poor, that rio excuse may be found,
that they could not afford to buy to judge -for
themselves; so that we may be clear from the
blood of all men. And now I shall cofne to the
meaning of my prophecies, and what they tend to.
The purpose of them is to warn the whole worlcf
at large, that the second, coming of Christ is nigh
{The Serortft tuition. Printed by Galabhi and Marchant, Ingr^-Qpurt,
v FenchutCh-Strteet, London, June 1810, from {he 1st, Editiot^* printed at
Stourbridge in August, 1803, . A
at hand; and how they may stand when he ap- j
peareth; and to shew you from the Fall the pro­
mise that was made to the Woman at Jirst must
be accomplished at last, before Man’s Redemption ‘
can take place. I shall in the first place give you
some passages from the Scriptures, which are ex­
plained to me by the Spirit, different from what­
ever the learned understood them; and then I
shall give you some of my Prophecies, how they
were spoken, and how they were fulfilled ; but I .
shall take some from my printed Prophecies, as I
know the poor cannot afford to buy them, there­
fore I shall bring some of the heads into this little ■
'
volume, that they may judge for themselves, the
end is at hand, from the truths that are past, judge
from the present and for the time to come. B ut.
first I shall shew you from the Scriptures, th at'
all these things must come to pass, to fulfil them. t
Here I shall give you the Scriptures which are not
yet fulfilled, and how it is explained to me that
they will be fulfilled.
, Isaiah, chap. xlii. v. 1, 2, 3, 4. “ Behold my
Servant, whom I-uphold, my elect in whom my
isoul delighteth: I nave .put my Spirit upon him,
he shall bring forth judgment to the Gentiles. He
shall not cry, nor lift up, ^pr cause his voice to be
heard in the street. £*fcruised reed shall he not
break : ttnd the smoking flax shall he not quench:
he shall bring-forth judgment unto truth. ,He shall
.not fail, nor be discouraged, till he have set judg­
ment in the earth: and the isles shall wait for his
law.” i 5 ..
■ *
Isaiah, chap, xliii. v. IQ., “ Behold, I will do
a new thing : now it shall spring forth, shall ye
not khoWIt? I will riiake a way in the. wilderness
land rivers ijftfce desert” . '*
t
£
Digitized by Google
s
Isaiah, chap. xliv. V. 3. “ For I will pour water
upon him that is thirsty, and floods upon the dry
ground: I will pour my Spirit upon thy seed, and
my blessing upon thy offspring.” One shall Say I
am the Lord’s : and another shall call himself by
,the name of Jacob: and another shall subscribe
with his hand unto the Lord, and surname himself
by the name of Israel. Thus saith the Lord, the
King of Israel, and his Redeemer the Lord of Hosts.
Isaiah, chap. xlv. v. 11, 12. Thus saith the
Lord, the holy One of Israel, and his Maker, Ask
of me things to come, concerning my sons ; and
concerning the work of my hands command ye me.
I have made the earth, and created man upon it:
I, even my hands have stretched out the heavens,
and all their hosts have I commanded. I have
raised him up in righteousness, and I will direct
all his ways : He shall build my city, and he shall
let go my captives, not for price nor reward, saith
the Lord of Hosts.
Yer. 22, 23. Look unto me, and be ye saved
all the ends of the earth: for I am God, and there
is none else. I have sworn by myself, and the
word is gone ,out of my mouth in righteousness,
and shall not return, that unto me every knee shall
bow, every tongue shall swear. Surely, shall one
say, In the Lord have 1 righteousness and strength:
even to him shall men come, and all that tire in­
censed against him shall be ashamed. In the Lord
shall all the seed of Israel bejustified and shall glory. •
Here I shall give tire answer of the Spirit to
these Chapters, which I was ordered to pen, to
shew you from the. Scriptures of the Redemption
of Man. “ Who is the man that contends with
his Maker? or where is the man that boasts ot
wisdom? Let him answer these Chapters, how
a 2
Digitized by L>oosLe
they are to be fulfilled ? or when they ever were
fulfilled ?— that unto me every knee did bow, and
every tongue did swear ? or when were all saved
to the ends of the Earth ? or when were they
ashamed in the Lord, that rose up against my
followers ? or those that truly believed in my word?
or when were all the seed of Israel justified and
glorified in the Lord? Here is a question that
must make the diviners mad: and turn the wise
men backward, and make their knowledge fool­
ishness. Isaiah, chap. xliv. v. 25. For this is
what I told thee from the Vision* shewn to Jo­
seph Prescott. My Bible stands like this outward
chain, full of places to be filled up, and now they
shall be filled up, and made like the inward chain:
for now will I answer of the work of my hands. '
I ma^le the earth and created man upon it; and
now will I raise him up in righteousness and direct
all his ways; and he shall build my city; for Israel
shall be saved in the Lord, with an everlasting sal­
vation. He shall not be ashamed or confounded
world without end. Now answer me, ye- wise
men, and ye'that contend against me, when was
this accomplished'? have I not said,—heaven' and
earth shall pass away, but my words shall not
pass away till all is fulfilled? Then where is my
equal to contend with me? Have I not spoken,
and shall I not do it ? Can I not frustrate the to­
kens of the liars, who say in their hearts they have
all knowledge given them. But let them know,
every good and perfect gift cometh down from the
Father of light, and from me the Creator of all
men, and the Preserver of all men. This light
and knowledge is come to'open the eyes of the
blind, and to unstop the ears of the deaf: that in
* This alludes to a Vision shewn to Joseph Prescott, and which
was ordered by the Angel to be called A Crown;” a$ it was a re­
presentation of the Fulness of the Godhead bodily.
*
4
Digitized by b o o g i e
seeing they may see, and in hearing they may
understand. The wisdom of the wise men is
perished : and the understanding of the prudent
men is hid. Darkness hath covered the earth, and
gross darkness the eyes of the people: for in seeing
they do not see: nor in hearing they do not un­
derstand : that man, whom I have created, must
be raised up in righteousness, and I must direct
his goings. But who inquire of me to direct them?
or how do men judge they shall be directed with­
out my Spirit visiting them; to come to me for
directions and for protection ? Is not every man
directed by his own wisdom ? Do they not ask
counsel one of another? But who hath asked
counseLof the Lord? Then now judge for your­
selves, ye men of this world, who is the true Is­
rael of God, that I shall redeem to he justified
and glorified in me, and shame all that shame them
and confound all that confound them? The true Is­
rael of God, whether Jews or Gentiles, Greeks or
Barbarians, or whatsoever religion they profess,
they must all come to the standard mentioned in
holy writ, as it is spoken by my Prophet. Ask of
me things to come concerning my sons and the
works of my hands; for they are the true Israel,
that shall be saved, when I come to build up men
in righteousness, in the earth that I have created.
The former things are come to pass, and new
things do I declare; before they spring forth I tell
you of them. Now answer me, O vain men, how
the former things did come to pass ? or who in­
formed you of them ? or who is now declaring new
things unto you, before ye have any knowledge of
than ? Have I not said, I alone am God, and my
glory I will not give to another ? For I and my
Son am one, who created you, and suffered, to re­
deem you; and where is the power can stand
against me, when I come to plead for my elect, in
5
Digitized by
whom my soul delighteth ? He shall bring forth
judgment to the Gentiles: He shall not cry, nor
cause his voice to be heard in the streets ; neither
shall he be discouraged till be hath set judgment
in the earth; and the isles shall wait for his law.
Now open your eyes, ye blind; unstop your ears,
ye deaf; when was this prophecy to be fulfilled, in
the spirit or in the body, when I was wounded for
your transgressions, bruised for your iniquities, and
the chastisement of your peace was upon me, and
with my stripes ye are healed ? Then was my voice,
heard in the streets; and over Jerusalem did I cry,
weep and mourn. I was disencouraged by my own
disciples, and forsaken. How did they hide them­
selves from me! When they saw my afflictions they
fled—smitten of God, and forsaken of man. Tell
me, ye learned, *if I was not disencouraged, and
what judgment did I then set in the earth? Or
where are the isles, that are waiting for my laiw?
©r whom do ye call the house of Israel, that is
saved with an everlasting salvation? or who is the
house of Jacob, that I have redeemed? and where
are all the enemies’that the Lord hath shamed? Is
it not all prophesied to be done in the Spirit, and
not when I came in the Body? Tell me, ye wise
men, what travail of my soul I have yet seen to
be satisfied? Was it to see my followers put to
death; my name despised; the martyrs in the
flames? Could this satisfy me, to reconcile the
whole world unto Go,d? I tell you, N o! but their
love so tar satisfied me, that it shall now rest upon
man for a blessing, that copy after them in love to
me, and wait for the coming of my Spirit to
be poured out upon all flesh, as it is spoken by the
mouth of my prophets : and Joel’s words are plain
before, you, that dreams have been heard, and vi­
sions have been seen, and my handmaids do pro­
phesy. Now judge for yourselves, all ye children
' 6
Digitized by L i O O Q L e
of men, is it not in the Spirit that your Redemp­
tion is spoken of throughout my Bible ? But ye
have Understood my Gospel, as the Jews did the
Prophets: they believed I should come to establish
the throne of David, and be the mighty Counsel­
lor, conquering and to conquer, and have the go­
vernment to be upon my shoulders, and redeem
the house of Israel. But they did not believe I
should bear the iniquity and transgressions of man,
to be wounded for their sins, and to be put to
death. So they believed in one, and not in the
other; and perished through theirunbelief; and had
their holy city destroyed, that they tau g h t I must
come to establish, if I was the Son of God. So
they believed the one, without weighing the other,
what the Prophet had spoken of in another place,
that the transgression of man must first be laid
upon me. Reason must teach men, it could not *
come after I had come in all my Father’s Glory,
to have all nations brought to the knowledge of
the Lord, and all the earth to praise the God of •
their salvation: to have the heathens for my inhe­
ritance, and the uttermost parts of the earth for
my possession. Who then shall lift a hand against
me, when every knee shall bow unto me ? So the
Prophecies could never be fulfilled to the wisdom
of the Jews: and it is the same now by the Gen­
tiles; for perfectly so they have understood my
Gospel; the first for the last, and the last for the
first; relying on one scripture, and denying ano­
ther. Ye say, that false Prophets shall arise in
the latter days. On those words ye build your un­
belief of the true ones; for it is written also, Pro­
phets shall arise, 1 Thessalonians, chap. v. verses
19, 20, 21. “ Quench not the Spirit, Despise not
Prophecies. Prove all things, hold fast that which
is good.” 1 Corinthians, chap. xiv. v. 1. “ Fol­
low after charity and desire spiritual gifts; but ra-
7
»
Digitized by b o o g i e
s
ther that ye prophesy. He that prophesieth speak-
eth unto men for edification, exhortation, and '
comfort. He that speaketh in an unknown tongue
edifieth himself; but he that prophesieth, edifieth
the church. 1 Cor. chap. x. v. 4. “ Know, there
are divers gifts, but the same Spirit: for to one is
given by the Spirit the word of wisdom; to ano­
ther the Word of knowledge, by the same Spirit;
to another the working of miracles; to another
prophecy; to another the ‘discerning of Spirits.
1Cor. chap. ix. v. 5. It is written, every woman
that prayeth, or prophesieth, must have her head
covered. Revelation, chap. xix. ver. 10. It is
written, “ The testimony of Jesus is the Spirit of
prophecy.” Now let Jews and Gentiles stand to­
gether, and let one ans\ver their Prophets, and the
Other the Gospel: for both alike have erred and
strayed from the truth; believing in one Scripture,
and denying another. Then how will ye join the
Law and the Gospel together? for both have
parted it asunder; putting the first for the last,
and the last for the first: wresting the Scripture to
your own condemnation; taking away the parts
that tend to your own salvation and redemption:
for both are taking your names out of the book of
life; for the book of life is.the word of God, that
is left on record for Jews and Gentiles; and for
all men, even to the ends of the earth. But who
hath believed aright ? Will you answer, those that
believe in my Gospel? Then I answer, ye must
believe all that is written of me by the Prophets
and by my Disciples; that the testimony of my
coming must be made known-by the Spirit of Pro­
phecy. For in the Spirit stands all your Redemp­
tion ; or how are ye redeemed, if I do not take
away the heart of stone; that is hardened by the
devil, and gi\;e you hearts, of flesh, by pouring out
my Spirit upon you ? Or how will the church be
/
Digitized by L i O O Q L e
edified by prophecies, if prophecy be not given to
edify thereby? Why should ye desire prophecies
rather than spiritual gifts, if prophecies were not
to be obtained ? Or how shall the church be edi­
fied to know and understand all the mysteries of
the Bible, which they have never yet understood,
without the Spirit of Prophecy is given to explain
them ? For there is no good and perfect gift but
what cometh down from the Father of light.
Now, what perfect gift is there in man? Though
many have spiritual gifts; but they do not edify
the church, nor give grace to the hearers; but
prophecies are for the edifying of all that will hear
them. Try and prove them with the written
word of God; for it is by prophecies ye must have
the testimony of my coming again in the Spirit, to
fulfil all that is written of me, from the Prophets
to the Apostles; and what I told you, the Holy
Ghost, tnat is the Comforter, whom the Father
should send in my name, he should bring all things
to your remembrance. And now I have brought
all to your remembrance, from the Prophets to the
Apostles, and confirmed the truth by the truth of
prophecies. For new things I have declared unto
you, that old things shall be done away, and all
things shall become new : before they spring forth
I have told you of them; as I .told you of the
wars and dearth, and all other things; before they .
sprang forth I told you of them, that when they
came to pass, ye might know it was I the Lord
that told you of them.
So now awake, ye sons of men,
'And see your Bibles clear;
The former things are come to pass,
In all I told you here.
And now the new before your view
They all are hastening on;
My Law and Gospel I’ll make clear
To all the sons of men.
For as my body did appear
Upon the cursed tree:
Digitized by
1
o
And man’s transgressions I did bear,
That he did lay on me.
The past is gone, it must be known,
My prophets did foretel:
But new things I do now declare—
I died to conquer hell:
That I the earth might all bring forth,
As I created man,
In righteousness to raise him up,
And guide him by my hand ;
That *s, for to direct his ways.
The Israel now of God
” Will fly to me, you all will see,
And now believe my word, ,
That all the whole 1 shall fulfil,
As it is spoken here.
It is mankind I must raise up
% In righteousness to appear, .
As I created him for at first;
And now the end is come,
My promises with truth shall burst,
, I say, on every land,
Fntil the Israel now of God
Shall all my goodness see,
For the true Israel now of God,
They all will trust in me,
That I shall come, and now redeem
According to my word.
It is by faith you now must be
The true Israels of God;
Faith to believe my Bible true,
That 1 shall all fulfil:
Have all the prophets in your view,
And judge them as you will.
They, like the Vision, do appear
The outward * chain to h e:
But now I will not tarry here,
Till Israel all shall see,
That like the inward chain ’tis come,
' Fulfill’d in every word;
I cannot be dismay’d by man,
That am a powerful God:
Strong to deliver, and to save;
Strong to destroy my foe;
Strong to the utmost now I’ll save,
That Israel now shall know.
Israel, you’ll see, my sons must be,
That on me do rely,
And judge me as a faithful God,
Whose dwelling is on high;
Who made the earth a bliss for man,
And it I shall complete;
* Alludes to the Vision before-mentioned, in page 4*
Digitized by Google
Who made a promise first for him,
When I did him create:
That blessings here he should enjoy,
If he did me obey :
But Satan soon did it destroy,
And man in grief did lie.
But mark the curse that was pronounc’d
Upon the tempter’s head;
If e’er my heel was bruis’d that way,
I should avenge the deed :
Upon his head the curse was laid,
If he should bruise my heel:
And for the Woman’s fault was laid,
He must that vengeance feel ;
And now that vengeance it shall come,
That was decreed at first;
As he betrayed the woman’s hand,
It on his head was cast.
’Twas by her hand, you know he stands
Condemned by the fall j
Because her guilt was cast on him, x
I now do tell you all.
For man’s transgressions I did die,
And for them did atone ;
But still the woman’s guilt doth lie
Till Satan feels his doom.
Then can you not the mystery see ?
The woman’s promise it must come,
Who cast her guilt alone on h e;
Then why do ye condemn?
For when he does receive his curse,
Then Israel’s seed it must come,
That now rely upon my word,
And build upon my Son:
That as he took the curse for man,
By hanging on the tree; .
Satan must so receive his doom,
That was pronounc’d on he.
Then from his fall, I tell you all,
That man I must redeem;
Mv promises are so to all,
When I this earth do claim.
Then Israel’s gloiy will abound,
And men my praise will sing;
And the true Israel will be found,
Of Jacob’s God and King.
But Israels here cannot appear,
Without a saving faith,
That I will make my Bible clear,
And give them saving grace;
As I have promised at the first,
When I created him from the dust,
That I would make his bliss complete,
And so I died to finish i t ;
ii
because her foe should fall like me*
The woman’s prophecies, you see,
Are on the serpent all now cast,
If men with me in love will burst,
To wish my kingdom for to come,
That Satan might receive his doom.
And doth this marvellous now appear t
Then marvellous things I told you here,
n That I should bring you at the last,
When in the fend the whole did burst;
T o shew you ’twas the woman’s hand
Must rise in judgment to condemn
The very foe that her betray’d ;
Therefore the mysteries all were hid,
As dead to knowledge man became,
And said the Lord the thing had done,
By giving him the woman there.
And now let all men to take care ;
For I the same shall cast on man,
That will not now obey her hand ;.
Because the woman now I give,
That you in peace with me might live,
And all these blessings now obtain;
If I cast down, I’ll raise again;
And if I kill, I’ll make alive:
And man shall find I ne’er deceive.
When I did make the woman first,
I said from her the good shall burst; .
For man could not be good alone;
The woman must his helpmate come.
And now his helpmate doth appear,
Writh prophecies no man can clear,
To prove they did not come from God,
When all the truth therein is said;
And as my Bible doth appear.
The woman’s hand hath made it clear,
Which all the learned ipcn can’t do, .
To prove my Bible all w jfrinef
But yet in truth sfrc maifes taq whole,
And proves her words from Adain’a fall,
That at the first I did not lie,
4 As in all ages men do say.
So now the falUet it appear,
And then I’ll answer thee once more.
Genesis, chap. iii. v. 15. “ I will pat enmity
between thee and the woman; and between thy
seed and her seed: it shall bruise thy head, and
thou shalt •bruise his heel.” Genesis, chap. ii. v.
18. “ And the Lord God said, It is not good
that the man should be alone ; I will make him
12
Digitized by L i o o g l e
an helpmate for him.” Now answer me, O vain
men, from your own judgment, Why it was not
good for the man to be alone, since ,you say the
woman was his helpmate to cause his fall, and
that fall you say is passed on all mankind, which
was caused by the woman ? How then will your
judgment prove, the man was the better forthe wo­
man, whom I pronounced to be. for his good,
and to be his helpmate for the better? Here I
have put the question to man. Did 1 not know
the arts of Satan? Did I not know he that had
influence over the angels in heaven; would find
a way to have influence over man upon ,earth?
Was there no other way, the powers of darkness
could find to betray man, if Adam had not tasted
of the forbidden fruit of the tree of knowledge
of good and evil ? I answer, yes: who brought
the second curse upon the earth? Was it not man
for cursing his son? And did not that curse rest
upon his posterity ? Then how was man good to
be alone? Did not a few years shew you how the
devil worked upon the man, whom I pronounced
to be a just man, and saved in the ark, when the
world was drowned, and all flesh was destroyed?
Here was man alone with his sons, when he pro­
nounced the curse upon him. Did he say to his
sons, I have sinned to drink of the 'grapes, and
ye have sinned to laugh at my folly, that we
ought to be ashamed of—Let us repent and do so
no more, lest sin enter again into the world, and
it be again destroyed? Had this been the admo­
nition of Noah, man would have proved himself
good to bealone ; but it was not: Satan soon found
a way to harden the heart of man and bring a
curse upon his posterity. Then how can you
prove, that man was good to be alone? But now I
will answer man of the fall: The woman con­
tended with the serpent, and answered, “ God*
13
*
Digged by C j O O ^ I c
hath said, Ye shall not eat of it, neither shall ye
touch it, lest ye die. And the serpent said unto
the woman, ye shall not surely die; ior God
knoweth, in the day ye eat thereof, then your eyes
shall be opened, Slid ye shall be as gods knowing
good and evil.” . Now answer me, ye worldly
wise men, who was the transgressor, the woman,
or the serpent? Did she not justly cast her guilt
on her betrayer, when she said, the serpent be­
guiled me and I did eat? Then did I not justly
cast the guilt on him, for his subtilty and arts to
pronounce him cursed above every beast, as a
serpent, and above every created being, as a
devil ? And know I have said, I am Alpha and
Omega, the beginning and the ending, the first
and the last; and the last shall be first, and the
.first shall be last. Then was it not first pronoun­
ced, her seed should bruise his head; and the last;
he should bruise his heel ? And so the last was the
first; for my heel was bruised before his head.
For know, he worked on man to cast the blame
on his Maker, for which reason I said he should
V bruise his heel. Now answer me, O ye simple
men and unwise, how can ye plead one promise
without the other? How can ye rely on my heel
being bruised, if ye do not rely on the promise
I made to bruise the serpent’s head? Did I not
tell you to pray that my kingdom should come,
and my will to be done in earth, as it is done in
heaven ? Did I not tell you that I had the power
to deliver you from evil, and unto me ye should
give the gkfry?. Then why do ye mock me by
your prayers, when ye neither wish for my king­
dom, nor believe that I have power to deliver
you from evil? Neither will ye give me the gloiy
of completing at last what I promised at first, the
woman to be your helpmate for good, to claim the
promise I made her in the creation, that ye might
14
Digitized by b o o g i e
come to your redemption. Is not enmity now
placed between the woman’
s seed and the ser­
pent’s seed? Are not your tongues like venemous
serpents, full of deadly poison?. From whence come
all your lies and malice, hatred and revenge ? Come
they not from the root of all evil? Examine your
own hearts, appeal to your own consciences, whe­
ther it be in love to God, or that your hearts are
blinded by the devil, that ye do not wish to see my
kingdom established, and Satan’s power destroyed.
O ye Scribes, Pharisees, and Hypocrites, who for
a pretence use my prayer, and now I am come
to fulfil it, ye will not have me to rule over
you. Am I come to teach you any other doctrine^
than what I told you to pray for? Am I come to
make the woman any other, than what I said I
created her for? Have I not said lam God, and
there is none beside me; my honour I will not
give to another? Then how shall I give my ho­
nour and power to the devil, to frustrate my
designs in the creation, and I not accomplish it
'in your redemption ? Did I alter -my decrees by
the fall of the woman? Did I not say, her seal
should bruise the serpent’s head? Then know, O
vain man, the promise that was given to the wo­
man must be fulfilled by the desire of the woman,
*and it is I the Lord that have placed that desire
in her heart; and her desire shall never be frus­
trated, though in sorrow she brings forth her chil­
dren : but the -Lord of Hosts is her husband: the
holy One of Israel is his name. (Isaiah, chap. 54.)
And all her children shall be taught of the Lord,
and great shall be the peace of her children: for
her desire is for the kingdom of Christ; and he
shall rule over her, and in her, to will and to do
of his good pleasure: for his power is over all
her words to fulfil them; therefore no weapon
.that is formed against her shall prosper, and eveiy
tongue that is against her shall fall for her sake.
15
Digitized by G o o g l e
They have gathered together, but not by m e;
therefore in judgment I will confound her ene­
mies, and all men shall know and see that I
the Lord am true; true in the creation, true
in preservation, true in my promise throughout
my Bible. Have I not promised to make crooked
paths straight before you, and work good out of
evil, and light out of darkness P And so will I
bring the good, I said in creating the woman, out
of the evil of the fall, to cast her guilt on Satan’s
head. This was a crooked path to man, that the
woman, who was pronounced for man’s good,
should turn to his hurt, by bringing evil upon him;
but now I will make that crooked path straight
before him, by bringing good out of that evil, to
preserve the woman and cast her betrayer. But
how could this be accomplished at the beginning,
before men and devils were both tried in a fallen
state, and by my words spoken to the prophets,
to prove that man was dead to knowledge? For
though they heard my words delivered to the Pro­
phets, they did not understand them; so they
were dead to the knowledge of good and evil;
and dead to the knowledge of their’-God, who
knew how to bring round my wisdom in the cre­
ation, and in preservation; to bring that good I
promised out of the evil she was betrayed into,*
by laying the axe to the root: for the root of the
fall was the devil; and now she hath laid the a!xe
to the root,, by her prayers and her name, that
is sealed to the day of redemption, to pray for
my kingdom to come upon earth, that my will
may be done on earth as it is in heaven, and
Satan’s power to be destroyed. And this prayer is
so acceptable to me, and so well pleasing in my
sight, that every tongue tha't is against her shall
fall for her sake; no weapon that is formed
against her shall prosper; and every one that is
15
Digitized by b o o g i e
against her in judgment she shall condemn. So
bring forth your arguments, prove your strong
reasons, why I created the woman for your good;
and now you refuse to receive her for your good,
when I nave shewed the good which shall come
out of the evil, and the light that shall come out-
of the darkness of the rail. I created the tree
of good and evil; so I created the evil and the
good. Now the evil shall fall upon the evil, which
is the devil; and the good shall fall on:the wo*
man, that I said,I made for man’s good. So if
the evil first overcame the good; then now the
good shall overcome the evil; for as Satan said
they should be as gods, knowing good from evil,
as gods I will make them that now refuse the
evil and choose the good. And now I shall answer
those who say in their hearts, they choose the good,
but see no use to shew it by their hand-writing;
for the Lord judgeth from the heart. And from
the heart I judged Job'; but what was Satan’s
answer? “ Let hint be tried and he would not be
found what I said he was." Therefore I put Job to
the trial, to shame Satan that was his accuser. The
heart ofJob was known to me; but it \vas putting
him to the trial that shamed the devil, that is the
treat accuser of mankind. Know it is written,
atan the great accuser of mankind shall be cast
* down j but it is by the trial of men’s faith, to shew
their love to me, must shame him, and cast him
down from pleading against man; and prove by
.their hand-writing they do not choose the evil, but
the good. So that if Satan tempts them to sin,
they do the things they wish not to do; because they
wish God to be all in all, and my kingdom to come,
and Satan’s ' power to be destroyed; and that is
the hand-writing that will come against him, as
' the hand-writing came against Belshazzar; and
prove when men’s love for him is weighed in the
17
Digitized by b o o g i e
balance, their love to him will be found wanting:
for men will shew, as well as the angels in heaven,
they do not love his ways. The angels were all
known to me; but l put them all to the trial.
Abraham’s heart was known to me; yet I put
him to the trial. And now I have put all men
to the trial, the same, to see who is for me, and
who is against me. It must appear from their
hand-writing that the hands or men are lifted
up against their betrayer, the devil; and lifted
up to heaven to pull down my blessings upon
them. Was it not the hand that plucked the
fruit? Then why do ye marvel, the axe must be
laid to the root before the tree is cut down. If
the hand plucked the evil fruit at first, then now
the hand must pluck it all down at last: mid by
the hand he shall tall. Is it not written, they have
hands, and handle not: feet have they ana walk
not: neither speak they through their throats?
Now answer, why they were condemned for hav­
ing hands, and handling not, if their hands were
of no use, and why they were blamed for not
speaking, if the heart was all I required ? My son
give me thy heart, •and let thy light shine before
men, that others seeing thy good works, may
glorify thy Father who is in Heaven. But who
can see .thy light or belief; or that thou givest
thy heart to me, if thy hand refuses to shew it to
me? Will you answer, I have no need of shew­
ing my mind and heart before men; for the
Lord knoweth it altogether; and he is my judge?
Then now answer me, how I judged Abraham,
from his heart, or laying his hand upon his
son ? Or how I freed the children of Israel; was
it by Moses’s heart, or by his hand, when he smote
the waves? Or how did the water gush out of the
rock in the wilderness; was it from the desire
of his heart, of from his hand, when he smote the
18
Digitized by
.rocks? Read your Bibles and you will see the
hand and heart must join together.. When evil is
in the heart the hands join with.it. Is not all-
done by the hand? Then where gopd is in the*
heart, the hand will shew it Then will you say
'in your hearts, yon wish my kingdom was came,
on the earth, and my will was done upon the earth,.
as it is doue in heaven, and; all the powers of 5a-.
> tan were destroyed'; but you are ashamed to put*
your hands to sign it, fearing you should be.
laughed at by men ? Then I answer, I shall .he,
ashamed of you, when I come in all my Father’s
glory. For Satan the great accuser of man­
kind will make me ashamed of such professors.
f For.I now tell you one and all, what this woman
hath written that is the desire of her heart, shall be
had in everlasting remembrance till time is no
more. And let no man say he joins with her in
his heart, that refuses to give her the right hand
of fellowship, to join with her by his hand: for
that is the reason the angels rejoiced at her birth,,
knowing she was boro for such a time as this; that
she might pluck down all the evil fruit,.and bring
to man all the good fruit; that Satan might fell by
the band be betrayed, to his own shame and con*
fusion: for if the hand plucked the first, it is the
hand must pluck the last, to pull down all the
evil and destroy it, and bring down the good to
enjoy it. So if ye weigh well the fall, that it
came by the woman’s hand; ye. must know that
Satan’s:fall must come by the woman’s hand the
.. same. And now is the enmity placed between
the woman’s seed and the serpent’s seed: there­
fore is man casting out floods of oaths and lies
against her; but the woman’s seed is helping her
to destroy all the works of the devil, that they
may put on the armour of light, aud be clothed
* b 2
19'*
\
Digitized by Google
with the suh of righteousness, that is now rising
with healing in his wings, to heal the fall of the
woman. Therefore I nave given her the spirit
of prophecy, that all men might know she is
called of God, to avenge the injuries done to
herself upon the head of him that betrayed her. >
For, as the blood of Abel cried for vengeance
against Cain; so does the woman’s fall cry for
vengeance against the devil, that betrayed her.
But now in her weakness I will be her strength,
and her strpng toweT, and the rock of her de­
fence. I never would have been born of a wo­
man, if I had never intended to have redeemed
the woman; for as I was born of her, so I was>
born for her, to make her sons joint-heirs with
me.”
Here I shall leave the explanation of the* Bible,
for the present, and come to some of my Prophe­
cies in 1792; as I was warned by day and by
night of what was coming upon the whole earth,
and at the same time I was told of many strange
and wondrous things that none but a G od could
know, which happened then, to assure me my
visitation was from the Lo^kD, who had begun
and would make an end. In 1792 I was warned
of a war with France and Spain; the dearth and
scarcity that would be in our land; the distresses
and troubles that were coming upon us; that the
visitation of the Lord would go from nation to
nation; but in what manner I was warned, a
small compass cannot contain; yet it was so
powerful; and I had sd many clear and convincing
proofs set before me, that I judged the calling
to be of God, and obeyed, the summons to leave
my work and go and write it; knowing, if I
was deceived, I should injure <no one but myself;
20
Digitized by b o o g i e
and if it was of God, I thought it would he fatal
for me to disobey: as fatal were the threatenings
pronounced against me if I did not obey. The war
was the first I was told would take place; scarcity
and dearth would follow; and discord would' rise
in the hearts of the people, from the burden that
next would come upon our land. All hath come
to pass I ’ ^ ' T im told it is the
come. And now 1 must inform my readers that
in March 1802, I was ordered to take my first
books in hand, which were printed in January
1801, and I should be told what pages would be
hastening on, from the First Book to the end of
the First Book of Letters. The pages that I was
ordered to put in print that were hastening on,
were the 8tn page, the 27, 29, 37, 46, 79, 87,
109, 120, 160, 172, 180,—In the 8th page are
these words—
f<But O thrice happy is the man
That doth begin ana will go on,
Till every curtain is drawn back,
To know and prove if I do speak;
For happy then shall be the man
That doth obey his call,
His talents five shall soon be ten,
My Spirit so shall fall.”
Here I shall give the explanation that is now
given to me from that verse. What is said of man
alludes to men; for one man can do nothing of
himself; and this page hath since the printing of
i t been fulfilled by men; and the curtains have
since been shewn that they are drawn back, from
the vision shewn to * Joseph Prescott,f-?“ to shew
* This alludes to the Vision of the Tent, Crown, and Angels, in
white, vith Swords and Trumpets, &c. seen by him, June lftth, being
the last vision drawn by him, till the twelve were explained by Joanna
Southcott, in the month of September, 1803, * ’
shadows substance is to
r
Digitized by
yOu from the dark mysteries of the fall, where
the crown standeth for man’s redemption; and now
happy, yea thrice happy are all .these that are flock­
ing to J esu’
s, as doves to the windows, looking
for and hastening to the coming of the Lord JesuS
Christ, for they will find their redemption k draw­
ing near, who will enlist themselves under my ban­
ner, and thirsting for my kingdom of peace. They
shall be the good servants, who shall enter into the
joy of their Lord." Now I have given you the
words spoken in verse in the 8th page, and the ex­
planation to that. ' 1
I shall next comte to the 27th page, that was
said to be hastening on, and of what was spoken
to me in 17.92. * As I kept nothing from Abra­
ham, so will I keep nothing from thee. Thou
slvalt prophesy in my name, and I will bear thee
witness; what I put in thy mouth, “
that will I do
upon the earth. The Lord is awaked as one out
of sleep: the voice of the Lord shall shake terribly
the earth : pestilence and famines shall go through
the lands: men’s hearts shall fail them for very
troubles, because they have not known the visitation
of the Lord.” fJere I have given you from the
27th page of what.I Was told was hastening on, in
1802, from the words spoken to me in 1792; and
now I shall give the answer to the above -words,
.that is i»ow given to me.
_
• u Give ear all ye'inhabitants of the earth; for
T the Lord have spoken it, and I also will do k.
.if ye wiiUtum unto me, I wiH turn unto you; but
if ye mock my voice, now I have made all so plain
before you; these evils that are written in this
book shall come upon you; and none •slwll deliver
you, till judgments are swallowed up in victory:
for I shall kindle a fire in mine anger, and wrath
Digitized by C - o o g L e
a s
in fuiy, if men now mock the coming of
their Lord, when I have made my Bible so plain
before you, and made all these Prophecies, that are
fast, true before you by the shadows. But know,
told you it uras the substance that was hastening
on; for it was but the shadow of the war that was
past; and no more than the shadow that is already
fulfilled. But as I bore.thee witness in the sha­
dow ; so I will now in the substance; ns I told
thee it was hastening on.” But here I shall call
your attention to the 18th page of my first book,
printed in 1801.
If this publication awakens the ministers to
search out the truth of these writings, the three
next harvests are promised to be plentiful.
“ Prove me now, saith the Lord, and try me, if I
will not shower down blessings upon you; but if
the many truths laid before you do not awaken
them to search out the truth, the Lord will fulfil
his words—
-
“ If by the wise^men I am mocked now,
Like Herod’s fury, I’ll fulfil my vow.
* For who my anger shall appease
If all deny my will:
My thunder-bolts shall loudly roll,
And men’s proud hearts I’ll chill.”
9
Here follows the answer gfven to me to that
page. “ One part is fulfilled by ministers, and by
a few who searched out the truth, and the three
harvests have come as I promised; but know what
is to follow—If all these truths that are now laid
before you, do not awaken the ministers to .search
out the truth, to warn their flocks of what is
hastening on, I will now fulfil the words spoken
in verse. Therefore, be ye not mockers, lest
your bands be made strong: For I have heard
from the Lord God a consumption, even a deter-
Digitized by b o o g i e
ruination upon the! whole earth. ;Therefore weep,
ye ministers; mourn, ye priests; for the day of.the
JLord is at hand.”
Now I shall come to the 89th page, that I said
was hastening on. This is the fulfilment of a
dream, that 1 had in 1792, when I was informed
I should be shewed in dreams how the things upon
the nation should come on; For the night was
for spent, and the day was at hand. I dreamed
I was upon an high mountain, and saw the sky
bright as.noon day; two men came out of the
clouds with long robes of purple and scarlet, with
crowns of gold on their;heads, and swords in their
hands, standing in the sky. Two men came out
with heavy horses and spoke to them who stood
in the air. Soon after I saw the men on horseback
coming;out of the clouds as fast as they could,
till the whole sky was covered with men in armour,
and spears glittering in’the air. I looked down on
the earth, and saw the world in a confusion of
war; men in armour riding fast. This dream
alarmed me; hut I was ariswered, “ Now- shall be
fulfilled the 2d Psalm—
^ .
Ask and receive thy full demands j -
Now shall the heathens be,
The utmost limit of the land,
, ghall be possessedby thee.
Til crush them every where,
As massy bars of iron break * '
Jhe potters brittle ware.”
And now I ahull come to' the 37th page.
“ And W
henher writings you have all gone through
: Much greater mysteries will come to yourview.”
#4..
Digitized by Google
Now I shall give you what is hastening on, in
‘the 46th page.
2£
So now, like Eve, let all believe,
The bridegroom is at hand;
That all the earth I shall reprieve—
The stronger now shall stand:
For Satan’s reign hath been so strong,
With thousands he did clear;
*Tis time for David now to come,
With his ten thousands here.
Your ^Mighty Counsellor I’ll begin,
Your Advocate and Friend;
Then I will come your Priest and King,
Your Brother in the end;
Your Husband too, you all shall know ;
For I shall all protect;
And if by one you all tame down,
By one then all come back.
Then all will be as wise as she,
Or yet as simple here:
Then wives alike you all shall be,
The Marriage I shall clear,”
I shall now come to the 79th page, which is has-*
tening on. '
“ Could they discern how I do warn, .
No leaniing can appear,
To shew I shall bring on the storm,
And every dangers near.”
Here I shall give you what is hastening on in
87th page.
“ These heavenly visions shall to all be known,
That in my chariot I am coming down:
No more in swaddlings doth the infant lay,
But now I’ll come in glory’s bright array,
And a true Saviour now rll surely be
To those that put their trust alone in me.
But darkness o’er the earth will sure abound,
Yet you enlighten’d land, his praise resound ;
The glory of the Lord shall in thee rise,
And his salvation shall be in the wise.
Conquering to conquer I will now begin:
llejoice ye lands* withjoy and gladnesssing.
Digitized by L , o o g l e
Now I shall give; you pftrfcof tie 109th page,
which is hastening on. ^
"N ow thou hast ?&jied Til begin:
The second Psalm to'all is come.
I’ll trifle now widxmao no more;
My sword I’ll send from shore to shore.
Therefore ye shepherds now awake,
The helmet of salvation take,
• * ^ And the whole armour now put on,
And shew the conier-stone to man;
The temple-gate throw open wide;
And shew your^flocks where they must hide:
The Rock of ages now is come,
Such days as these were never known.’’
»
Now I shall give part of the 120th page, -which
is hastening on. '
“ How shall the glory now in tsrael shifae,
If 1 don’t open the benighted mind ?
Or the fulfilment of the Gentiles come t
*Twas by a woman first the deed was done;
-Because she did the serpent hrst obey.
'IV bring itftackmiust turn the other way.’*
Now I shall give you part of the l60th page,
which is hastening ora.
*“ Then Christ and His flock now together must stand.
And prove from this vision my Kingdom’s af hand:
And white as the wool my flock shall appear,
. . ^nd the li^htf^m my lambs you sha^hill see it cle$r.”
Here I shall give-you part of the 172d page,
which is hastening on,
" For now yefifllfind will coinethe mfcfrrfghf hoer,
When all mankind will feci the Bridegroom's power:
And ye, whose kmrpsare ready now prepared;
The midnighjbhonr waMWmeyonr^iitt^reward ; 4
For with jMrBcklegiJeom you-may ester m.
That is my:Kingdom you shall surely win.
And you will fod&glorious mid«ight-*heur,
To meet the Bridegroom { awdyoird feel my power, -
To shut you:iusecure from eyery tee;
Your naiimarejwrittemaftdybur ifen&s I know: .
But when the foolish virgins do appear, *
Who mock’d the warning of the Bridegroom here,
26
Digitized by G o o g l e
I tell you plain what then will be yottr filter
Like foolish virgins you will come too late;
Because your names I say I do ftot know ; '
You mock’d the warning and despis’d the blow/
That I pronounc’d against th e mockers here;
And now the midnight-hour to them appears,
That back on mockers must my fury tall;
So now take care, I warn you one and all.”
27
-Now I shall give part of the 180th page* which
is hastening on.
“ Of Gideon’s sword, and brandish’d it shallbe—
And now the mystery I shalLshew to thee:
For Joel’s words together all are come—
r The dreams and visions have been seen by men.
If men of learning do but weigh it deep
The sword was brandish’d, and the powers do Weep,
Which made the sword to brandish ail abroad.
And every nation feel the glittering sword;
If not already, it will so come on,
And every land will find my sword is drawn,
Till men I’ve conquer’d and they all submit
To lay their jewels humbly at my feet;
That is, their faith to trust in me alone;
Then on the other must the sword come on;
For it I’ll brandish in the enemy—
The powers of darkness shall my fury see;
- For in the end I’ll plunge it in his heart,
And he like man shall feel the fatal dart:
For that’s the way that 1 shaUsheath the sword,
And then all flesh shall know the living Lord.”
Now I will explain those Pages, which are sai4
to be hastening on. The first, that I 'warned, was
the 8th page, that was hastening on; viz. of mi-r
nisters searching out the truth, till the curtains
were drawn back—and now I have shewn you the
Vision of the Curtain being drawn back.: The
27th page is the warning given to the woman; and
now the vision hath appeared of the woman.. The
20th page is of the war hastening on; and now
the trumpets of war have appeared in the vision.
The 37th page are great mysteries coming to^ycsur
view, when they had gone through the writings^
and then came the mysteries of all the; visioni.
Digitized by b o o g i e
The 46th page is Satan’s reign being too strong—
and “ I am coming, like David, with tens of
thousands!—and now you have seen the Vision of
the Horse and Rider,' going on conquering and to
conquer, with all the heavenly host, and with the
sword of victory in my hand—and one power that
opposed me, twisted and broke under my heel: so
that 1 appear as l said, the-Mighty Counsellor,
your Advocate, and the Captain of your Salvation-
.
The 79th page —could they discern how I do warn,
and did they weigh all with the visions, that ! told
thee were hastening on— it wants no learning to
know all was brought round by the wisdom of a
God, beyond the wisdom of all the men upon
earth.—Bring me the man that could bring round
such mysteries, and make them come to the per­
fect truth; but that is as far from any man to do
of himself, aa it was for Moses to work the mira­
cles he wrought/ without my aid and assistance.
The 87th page, are the heavenly Visions that should
be known; and now they are seen and known.
For so they shall all come upon the earth; and ye
shall find redemption in my blood; and I will be
known in all hearts; for I have shewn you, in the
visions, how I am coming down, and how my
•wonders are displayed- in visions : therefore they
jnay.tejoice in the:God of their.salvation, who are
■«ow: enlightened to See and believe in their re­
demption,':Ithat now draweth near. The 109th
page, is the jseccmd Psalm —and now I have shewn
yoii in: the Vision of. the Trumpets for war, and
my arm stretched out to all nations, to save the
•remnant that is leaved in the.war; but if England
does Inot -awake, as men out of sleep; and the
ahephenfe db not warn their flocks— tnis land will
•Cfltno to. all, dike., the explanation of that Psalm,
;and.lsay they; .cannot Bear the load, that I shall
bringupon them. ;For. as I have .sent prophecies
28
Digitized by b o o g i e
amongst them, and signs of visions, and have laid
a few stripes on them, that they might not receive
many; but if a few will not awaken them, I shall
lay my hand heavy upon them. For if they say
they want not the knowledge of the Most' High,
they shall not have the protection of the Most
High. The 120th page, How shall the glory shine
in Israel, if I do not open the eyes of the blind,
and bring the Gentiles to the fulness of the gos-
>el, that they have believed; for if the woman
jore the Son, the woman must bear the tidings of
lis coming again in glory—and if the Jews and
Gentiles are above other nations; so their women
must be above all other nations: For in the vision
I shewed the woman arrayed in glory—and the
woman must be arrayed in the glory of my Spirit,
before man that is born of a woman can be re­
deemed. *But thou sayest in thy heart, the Jews
were not redeemed, though the woman bore the
Son of God. I answer: they perished through
unbelief—and through unbelief, will thousands
now perish. The 160th page—Christ and his
flock must stand together. And now I have shewn
in the Vision of the Crown and Crosses, how man
must come in under'my wings for protection; and
my arm shall come out to man, and then the cros­
ses shall fall from man; for now will I conquer all
for men: as they shared with me the cross, so shall
they now share with me the crown. For now the
flowers appear upon the earth; and my flock shall
appear white, as the five angels appear with the
trumpets, &c. in their hands, and will draw back
the curtains to all that wish to judge for them­
selves—-in that heavenly beauty that vision ap­
pears, my flock shall appear in white: for white as
the vision appears to all; so white shall my flock be
made, that use the trumpets to sound the coming
of the Lord: and for them the swords shall fall
29
Digitized by b o o g i e
in the end. So this is what I told thee was has­
tening on for believers; but first must come on
what I said upon unbelievers. For all these visions
shew you, that I will fulfil all I have spoken by
thee. The 17?nd page— Your names are written,
and your names I know: and so the vision ap­
pears, where you see the sealed letters drawn by
two white horses ascending upwards, and the earth
below in all its glory, and the seven angels coming
before the throne. And now you see, men have
begun to write their names for the desire of my
kingdom, as I said it was hastening on. And now
they are fulfilling my words; and they shall be
welcomed in with the Bridegroom, when I come
to bring on the midnight hour for man; .then they
shall be known to me, from their names, who wish
for my kingdom; so all is shewn in the visions, as
I told thee. ,Tbe 168th page—The* sword of
Gideon shaff end the war—and those who inqui­
red I ordered to enter voluntarily to defend their
king and country. But know, in the end, I said
I would brand it in the enemy; the powers of
darkness should feel my fury;. for that is the way
I would sheath the sword. ' And know, the visioh
was shewn to thee of the Chain round Satan; and
■die next vision was, the angels in white, with the
swords drawn to fall. So here are the visions,
like the words I said unto thee were hastening on
for all.
30
I said the Sword of Gideon should end the war,
And Satan’s doom must in it then appear;
Because that way I said the sword I’d sheath,
When I had made all nations for to yield.
And from these visions now I warn you here—
Twelve heavenly visions thou hast seen most clear;
Twelve different pages I did say were near,
That to all nations they were hastening on.
I said a mystery would to them be known,
When all thy twritings they had then gone through,
A greater mystery would come to their view.
Digitized by
And so the mysteries must to man appear, -
To weigh the visions with the pages here,
That I did tell thee then were hastening opv
I said the curtains must come back by mart;
And that thrice happy man would surely be,
That did go on the naked truth to see ;
And now the truth it doth to all appear,
As in the visions every one 1*11clear*;
Because these visions that you now may see,
They shew you plain the truth was told by me.
Ten years her words were seen upon the land;
The wars and tumults, you might all command ;
s Because the shadow in your land appear’d,
And many men for tumult hanged here;
TKht for rebellion they were put to death,
Then mark my Gospel what the Scripture saith:
Brethren against their brethren there would rise,
When I bring on the end,' O man, be wise!
Brethren and nations, tumults and the war,
The dearth of bread did in your land appear/
Mark every shadow in the ten were past:
In 1793 you know the wars did burst,
And after that the shadows all did come;
You know the ten years were not past and gone,
Before believers came the truth to see,
From different parts, and then believed in me,
That I had spoken as the Lord on high,
To warn my coming and my kingdom nigh-
So every shadow did to you appear,
And unbelief was seen in the ten years;
So eveiy shadow now is gone and past;
For so I told thee unbelief would burst;
And Hoods against thee would be cast by men,
The rage of hell in them you would see plain:
And so the rage of hell it did appear,
Thou knows't in man within the first ten yeats :
And so the love from heaven it did abound,
The same from men thou heard’st the sound,
That they in love did hear their coming Lord,
And did rejoice, to hear the Bridegroom’s word,
That was made public by his servant here.
All (his together was within ten years:
And they to help the woman did begin,
t.s in thy printed books may plain be seen.
o all these shadows came within ten years;
And different nations did in war appear;
The dreadful fever ip America ;
The tumult then in Ireland men did see.
All this I told thee, that it would take place—
Mark every shadow in the ten that’s past,
And then the substance every soul shall see*;
Fofc^ow increasing as I said to thee,
That all these shadows surely would increase,
Before I brought to man a lasting peace,
31
Digitized by b o o g i e
•And have my glorious Kingdom for to come ;
For now the substance it is hastening on ;
The wars increasing every where abound.
From distant nations you do hear the sound,
As well as here, the war is in your land,
And rage and malice do abound in man
Against the Lord, and his anointed Son .
Despite against my Spirit now is strong ;,
For men in rage and fury do increase,
Against my Kingdom, and wish not for peace,
To be delivered from the rage of hell;
But sooner with their masters they do swell,
Against the Lord, and his anointed Son, -
Just as I told thee of the second Psalm;
And now the second Psalm to all is near,
And so my friends they are increasing here:
Because thy friends they daily do increase,
More strong now than before, the shadow’s least,
That in the first ten years are past and gone —
And, now, I tell you this, O England,
Fast as thy friends and foes do now increase,
So fast 1 tell you I’ll bring on die rest,
Of eveiy shadow that is past before.
If love increase, thy foes to conquer here,
And every foe doth now become a friend*.
I’ll then increase the blessings I did send.
Since first her friends they did to her appear,
I sent you peace and plenty that same year;
But when the malice aid in her foes abound,
I sent the war, that in her foes was found,
And all your peace I turned to a war ;
And now if foes increase, I tell you here,
That every sorrow they shall fast increase,
The wars, nor tumults they shall never cease>
Until the hearts of men will turn to me,
And leave their rage of persecuting thee.
For if my coming men did love to hear,
Such malice in mankind could not appear;
So if men’s rage and malice do go on,
They’ll find the substance like the shadows come:
And mark the shadows past in the ten years:
But now the substance ail her foes shall bear;
If they in rage and malice still go on,
Then I’ll pursue them by the every storm,
Until her foes I’ve swept them all away.—
And now I bid thee mark what I do say :
In public print let all these words appear,
And from the visions now I tell you here,
As they were seen it all is hastening on;
’Tfs like the pages that I said should come:
And like these visions every soul shall see,
The end of all things is decreed by me.’1 ^
92
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
. And now I shall: come to the pages that were
said to be fulfilled in J802, that were printed in
1801. The 18th page— If the ministers searched
Out the truth of the prophecies, the threefollowing,
harvests were promised to be plentiful.—The 53rd
page—The wars to be deferred for a while. The
both page—The first shall be like the last. The
84th page-'—
In on’
e harness they will all agree j
my plough is .ready for to set them free. The
94th page-—Barren minds like barren soil, mock
the cultivator’s toil. The 126th page—Because
the lying spirit is sent out The 141 page— I
have begun in the new century, and changed the
scenes. The 143rd page—No foreign nation
you’ve to fear will now invade your land. The
16 1st page—The wisdom of Satan will appear in
man, and point out light to deny the whole. The
162nd page— The living water will gush out of
itself. The 174th page— Different passions wilj. •
arise, and some men of learning will chastise. The
197th page—The one observed the landmarks,
and with steady prudence reached his native shore.
The 200th page—My Spirit is descended, to warn
you that I am at hand.—Now 1 shall give the an*
swer of the Spirit to these pages, that were said to
be fulfilled in 1802.— “ The 18th page was ful­
filled by the three ministers and others, who
searched out the truth; but the fulfilling of the
harvests could not be till the lime was come to
fulfil them; but my promises were begun to be
fulfilled by the first; then all might be assured I
should go on to fulfil the others. Another thing
was fulfilled by the mocking of the wise men:
then judge1what must follow in time. For as time
brought on the harvests, as promised; so will time
bring on the others. . For if men fulfil the one, %
shall fulfil the other. The war was deferred for a
while, and so were the judgments in your land,
c.
W
.-
S3
Digitized by t ^ o o s L e
by sending a plenty instead of a scarcity. This
was deferred by me: But know, it is time must
fulfil the other. As it hath begun by the war, so
shall I face my foes in this land, that mock the
coming of the Lord: for where one thing is ful- j t
filled, time must fulfil the other. Now, the words '
were fulfilled of my plough being ready to set free
the other; but time must make, all my plough }
agree together: for they are not all yoked in to­
gether ; though it was fulfilled that all the former
were taken out, as bullocks were taken out of the
yoke, and others, like a plough yoked in, in their
place: but the whole is not completed. Barren
minds, like barren soil, have mocked the cultiva- *
tor’s toil; for so did men mock thee. But though 1
that was fulfilled, yet the whole is not fulfilled;
for like the harvests, there must come time 19 ful->
fil them. Where one is fulfilled, the other shall
follow; because there is a lying spirit in mankind,
to try to toil thy heart and mind, that I shall go
no farther to fulfil the words that I have given to
thee. That truth was then fulfilled by many; but
time must fulfil the other part, to prove they are
lying spirits that prophesy against thee from their
own wisdom, that they are better prophets than
thou art, who writest wholely by my Spirit. So
where one truth is fulfilled, the other shall fol­
low. For as I have begun in this new century to
call men from different parts, and have made the
truth public, and changed the scenes of their pur­
suing to establish a king upon the French throne;
and changed the scenes of the dearth, that was
in youi land; for these scenes were all changed in
1802, as I told thee; but time must fulfil all that
is written in that page; for where one truth is
fulfilled, the other shall be. That truth was ful­
filled, that no foreign nation had invaded- your
land, as I told thee in 1801; so shall all' be ful-
34
Digitized by v ^ o o Q i e
filled in that page; therefore, let men be wise and
understand all that is there written ; for one truth
shall follow to another. It was fulfilled, that Sa­
tan appeared to mankind, and pointed out, from
their own wisdom, no prophecies could be given
to thee; though all the page is not yet fulfilled ;
but as sure as the one truth was fulfilled, the other
shall follow, till all is fulfilled, that is there writ­
ten. The truth was fulfilled, in that page: the li­
ving waters gushed out of themselves, without thy
seeking aft^r them, or knowing where the living
waters were; yet that page is not all fulfilled;
but one truth will bring on the others, till the
whole is proved to come from the God of truth.
For though that was fulfilled, that different pas­
sions arose in mankind, and men- of learning re­
proved and blamed the judgment of those that
believed; yet that page is not all fulfilled ; but it
is hastening on. For as one hour brings on ano­
ther, one day another, and one year another; so
shall one truth bring on another, till every truth
is fulfilled. For as some have observed the truths
which have been fulfilled, and with steady faith
believe all will be fulfilled; so shall their faith
bring them to a safe harbour at last. For though
they have observed the landmarks, and pursued
them with steady faith ; yet they are not come to
the haven of my rest; neither are they safely
landed to that shore of happiness, which is now in
store for them. But as I said it was fulfilled, that
some were looking to the landmarks set before
them; yet the page is not all fulfilled. For it ip
like Isaiah’s prophecies of my death for man; but
it is not fulfilled, that I have seen the travail of
my soul, and am satisfied. So all is fulfilled but
in part; yet that part which is fulfilled shall bring
on the other, till all be fulfilled, and the whole
accomplished. As that truth is accomplished of
c 2
35
Digitized by
the woman’s warning all her brethren that the Spi- '
rif of the Lord hath visited her. This truth is
fulfilled; but the page is not all fulfilled. Just so
stands my Bible: one part fulfilled; the other part
not. And the same was my Disciple’s saying, in
the day of Pentecost, that the Prophet Joel’
s-
words were fulfilled. The shadow was, by my
Spirit being poured.out upon them who were, pre­
sent, of .different religions; but the substance was
not fulfilled of my Spirit being poured out upon all
flesh: neither did your women then, prophesy.
Now I have placed these pages to convince man­
kind of their folly in judging their Bibles; that
one word being fulfilled, is the fulfilment of the
whole. But my Bible stands like thy pages, which
1 ordered thee to prist in 1802, being fulfilled; as
many things in them were fulfilled; but will you
say from that, the whole pages throughout were
fulfilled? Then you must argue the three good
harvests had then appeared, when there was but •
one passed. Yet it was fulfilled of the shepherds
and others searching out the truth, and one good
harvest had followed; but three years must be
passed before the third could be proved. Perfectly
so stands all my Bible. I proved myself.the Sa­
viour of mankind, that I came to die for all men;
but I have not yet proved that I have saved all
men. I died that, man might live in me; but I
have not yet proved that all men do live in me.
I became poor for man, that through my poverty
man might become rich; biit I have not yet made
men rich; neither in this world,, nor in good
works. Where is the man that boasts in my sight,
that he is rich in grace, rich in faith, rich in die
world, and in the knowledge of me? Now, to
fulfil what I died for, men must thus become,
when I give them my kingdom that I died- to
establish for them—rThat as all men lost their
36
Digitized by b o o g i e
'sr
state of happiness anti bliss "by Adam’s-fall; s6 *
■
inust all gain it again- through me. But how caij
all men be tlie same Tonewed by me, if I db not
"bring in a whole race of mankind to that:perfect
happiness which I created man for at first? And
how could this be done when I came amongst
them in the body? How then could the Jews be
scattered through unbelief throughout all nations?
Or how could the words of the prophets be ful­
filled, or my gospel be fulfilled, if all the evils
had fallen at once? No, I tell thee, my Bible is
like thy pages, one part fulfilled, the other hasten­
ing on; as the three years were to fulfil the truth of
the harvests; and the third year in the century
proved the wars were deferred for a while. And
every page that was said was fulfilled, every year
is increasing mbre and mole the fulfilment of them.
So what was fulfilled by my death for man, shall
now go on more and more, as years increase, till I
fulfil the whole. For it is by thy writings that I
have placed in such a manner I shall convince man­
kind how my Bible stands—and prove that one
thing being fulfilled, is not the fulfilment of the
whole. If a man gives a bond, and promises to
pay one part at any period; if he be as good as his
word, he will fulfil his word; but that does not
prove the bond is cancelled, the debt is paid; be­
cause he fulfilled his word in one payment, that
• doth not free the whole; though the man fulfilled
his promise,iti that part, yet, the remainder is still
behind. Just so stands thy pages and ,my Bible.,:
One thing fulfilled; but the other 6tands like a
bond that is not cancelled; But now I will not
cease going on from one promise to another, from
one fulfilment to another, till every bond is can­
celled, and every debt is paid. For, the last ene­
my that must be destroyed is death, hell and sin
«
—and that is the power I died to destroy. And
Digitized by L i O O Q l e
' -3B
though I said in my dying hours, It is finished;
yet, it was but finished like thy pages: my death
was finished; yet, man’s ^redemption was not fi­
nished: nor Satan’s curse was not finished, but
as the man that is murdered finished the death tor
his murderer; so my death being, finished by Sa­
tan’s entering into Judas; so it shall assuredly
finish his death, as Judas finished his life. For as
Satan finished death for man and me; so now I
will finish death for him.—
And now Pli finish life for man,
As from the grave I rose again.
And like, thy pages, all will see,
*Twas finish’d then no other way.
One truth appeared—my death to find,
Was finish’d then for all mankind;
Blit as thy pages do appear,
You cannot prove the whole is cleir,
That all these pages are fulfill’d,
Though many truths beyond man’s skill
Are in these pages that are pass’d ;
But in the end the whole will burst.
Then with my Bible all compare,
And prove that man doth greatly err?
To say my Bible is fulfill’d.
Let all the learned try their skill,
And with thy pages it compare,
Then all miist prove alike they err:
Some things fulfill’d and others not,
In every page that there was wrote;
And all my Bible stands the same;
Therefore these pages I did name,
As some in all was then fulfill’d.
The learned men with all their skill,
Cannot deny but some were true—
Bring every page before their view:
And they must own there’s truth in all,
That was fulfill’d, when I did call,
To have these pages to appear, ,
And said the truth therein was clear,
That was fulfill’d the truth to see;
And where’s the man that baffled thee,
To say these pages were not true ?
Bring all thy friends before thy view:
The mysteries they did not discern;
Nor judge the way that I didi warn,
To say, I had fulfill’d the past,
Anji so tjie others they would bur?t;
Digitized by L i O O Q i e
As they for man were hastening on^ r ,
Tfieway 1warn’d, there’s none discerned.
To see wherein the lines were true, ,
And what is not, bring to their view, •„
That all together did not come; .
And so my Bible stands the same, .
Which learned men no more do see,
Than those that now believe in thee
Discern’d what was not there fulfill’d; *
And so ’tis faith I tell you still, :
From the great truths that did appear, ;
They judg’d the Lord had spokenhere,
Without the lesser things to see, -
That all fulfill’d could never be.
Now perfect so my Bible stands: *
The greater truths they all command;
But lesser things they do not see, *
That all fulfill’d could never be.
As in my Bible all is plac’d, v
They judge my Gospel from the past, ..
That as these wonders did appear,
They judg’d the Son of God was here, .
And that i djed to save mankind; ;
But ne’er discern’d what laid behind,
To make my death secure for man,
The tempters death must surely come,"
Before mankind could e’er be free,
For every man to live in me—
As he was tainted by the fall;
Then sure the authorhe must die,
Cut from the earth, as I did lie,
Cut off from man, and in the tomb:
For this must be the tempter's doom,
Before that all fulfill’d can be,
That all the prophets wrote of me.
And yet these things do none discern,
Nor judge the way that I do warn
Throughout my Bible it doth appear,
No more than men discern it here,
How all the pages thou hast penn’d
Were but in part fulfill’d by men;
Then sure some other must appear,
For to fulfil these pages here,
And so my Bible it is plac’d. -
And now awake, ye fallen race; ;
For all together you must weigh, ,
Then judge the dawning of the day,
That it-is breaking now for all. ,
I tell you plain, since Adam’s fall,
I never gave my words so plain, .
Nor ever shew’d so straight a line, '
As in thy writings I have done,
To shew you all the end is come;
And all my Bible to make clear, ,
J’ve shew’cl mankind wherein they err;
39
Digitized by Google
And brought thy writingsjust the same,
To shew you all your folly plain,
That you from one must judge the whole-,
That all together cannot fall,
To be fulfilled at one time.
I’ve plac’d these harvests to mankind.
To shew you plain the lime is come.
Before the truth of all is known,
And when the time to man appears,
I mean to make the mystery clear,
Why I these pages did so name,
To say the were fulfill’d by man;
For so by man the words were true;
For as I said the truth you know.
That friends and foes did so abound,
And thou from both did hear the sound*
As in the pages that were penn’d ;
But can you say you’ve seen the end,
To have these pages all come true ?
Bring every page before your view,
You’ll see it must be a work of time,
Ere every truth therein you’ll find;
And perfect so pay Bible stands—
^
Awake, ye dark benighted land.
And all together now compare;
Then you must know the Lord is here
Or, such a likeness could not be,
To bring my Bible round this way,
To shewyou all that tune must come^
Ere I fulfil the whole for man*
That man doth say is now fulfill’d.
The serpent’s head, you say, I chill’d,
When that I died to rescue man,
To bruise his head was then my plan
But will you prove it then was done ?
Did not his head appear in man,
To slay my followers all the same?
And so the martyrs I shall name;
And now I tell you to this day,
That Satan’s head in men is high,
To blind their eyes they may not see* *
The end is come must fall on he:
And it is man must bruise his head,
As I by man was surely laid
To take my trial all from men,
And I wasnailed by their hand;
And by their hand it shall appear,
That Satan now the same shall share;
Because the nails were drove by men,
When they did nail my feet and hands.
And they must drive the nail the same;
To bruise his head must be by man.
So every name that’s enter’d here,
Satan will find to be a spear,
To pierce his heart, as man pierced
For on his head the names I’ll bind,
40
Digitized by Google
That every nai&e shall bruise his head,
Till all his power I shall strike dead,
To be as silent buried down,
A* in the grave I then was found..
And this you know was done by man#
Then perfect so I’ve laid my plan,
' That Satan’s doom must come the same;
And ’tisfrommanthehandm
ustcome,
Tojointhewom
anatthelast;
Till onthe serpent all is cast;
Then your redemption I shall free,
When every hand is join’d for me;
Because I suffered by the hand—
Awake, ye dark benighted land,
Andnowthemysteriesclearlysee.
The handthatnail’dme tothetree
^iustnailthe Serpent’sheadthesame,
And wish for me'to rise again.
And this must all be from the hand;
And so yojurnames shall ever stand, '
That you repent you murder’d me;
And so your bloody hands I’ll free,
That like the crimson did appear;
But white as wool I’ll make them here:
every bloody hand I’ll free,
That now appears to wish for me,
And have the tempter to be cast,
kJpon hishead the whole shall burst—
And then my travail I shall see,
And satisfied with man I’ll be:
When I do see them change the hand,
And wish my kingdom for to come,
To have the powers of hell be cast,
Then on his head the whole shall burst,
And he shall perish then like me,
When l was nailed to the tree,
And had my life took from the earth;
■ For Satan so shall find his death.
So saintsand sinners need not fear, ,
If from their hearts they wish it here ;
And with their hearts their hands do join,
They in the end shall all be mine;
For they will so bruise Satan’s head;
And what againstthem can be 6aid, '
If they wish every sin to cease,
That they with memightdwell in peace ?
Then I will give this wish to men;
f * As by their wish J died for them.
So now the mysteries all see clear—
It is the hand that must appear,
To bring the tempter’s final doom,
And me to triumph ip his room.’’
\
* Now I must call my readers to the following
pages, printed in 1801. The 83d page of the 2d
41
Digitized by Google
‘hook,—In the Heavens I say ’tis working high.
The 146th page—I’ll begin in the new century to
shew you the doors that were bolted for man
when he was cast out of Eden, and will bring to
his view the knowledge, that was kept from him.
The 56th page 2d book—The wars were said to
abound, and the substance was to come; but in
53d page, they were said to be deferred for a
while. The 64th and 65th pages, it is written,
Men will join with men, and women will join with
women, who do not believe, to persecute those
that do believe, till the anger of the Lord is kin- •
.
died against them. In the 70th page, it is writ­
ten, I should put my writings in print, with the
new century; as the hand of the Lord would be
close after to fulfil them. In the 107th page—I
took man’s nature upon me, and bore the blame
man cast on me, that Satan might bear the blame
the woman cast on him. The 113th page, my
writings are to bring all things to your remem­
brance. The 114th page, men that are believers
are said at first to see things as trees .walking, be­
fore they are come to see them asmen. The 122d
page—As the past ages, sp is the present. They
despised my prophets, and were full of their own
invention, till destruction came upon them. The
fifth Book, page 235, printed December 1801—
As there is a peace, let there be a peace; but I
may say, what peace, so long as Satan and his
witchcrafts are so many ?
Let it be known, my prophecies are not ended;
yea, they are scarce begun; for as you say the war
is ended, I say it is not begun. Mark deeply the
237th page, the 251st pa£e—I bore the blame for
man, but knew my second next must come, to take
the sword and plunge it in the powers of darkness,
and so turn back on Satan the mischief he created.
The 268th page—When they have, proved it
came, from heaven, it will be given;to fhe ppbjic *
42
Digitized by G o o g l e
and then I shall try the hearts of men, and my
arrows-shall fly fast, if men mock my word, they
soon shall feel my glittering sword. The 288th
page of the sixth Book, printed January 2d,
1802.—Wha.t God designed at first, he will ac­
complish at last; it is not all the powers of earth
©r hell can frustrate the designs and purposes of
the Most High: the Lord made the woman to
complete the happiness of man, and by her it must
he done.”
. Here I shall give the answer of the Spirit to
these pages, that I was ordered to mark to the
public. Here begins the explanation from the
sixth Book, on which seven men set in judgment.
“ Three of them were shepherds, whom I had
chosen; and these three agreed in one, though
three in person, but one in heart and mind, whom
I have told thee are the shadow of the three that
beared record on earth, compared with the three
that beared record in heaven. Mark now what
is written in the third Book: I had chosen me a '
shepherd in whom 1 find no fault If you chuse
him, I will chuse you. Page 124.—Now this
shepherd is my Son, whom I-have chosen*; my be­
loved, in whom my soul delighteth. And there
are three shepherds that have testified of him, that
it is his spirit which has visited thee, to make men
heirs of God, and joint heirs with Jesus Christ.
I have begun at the ending and 'shall go back to
the beginning. But how could any man or woman
complete your happiness by prophecies, seeing they
were never completed? But the way the woman
phall complete them are by my words and promises;
.as I have said the one shepherd is my Son. And
if they now chuse him, as thou hast desired them,
by their names to proye they have chosen him,
fnen will I chus.e them, and makp them, a? I said,
43
Digitized by L , o o Q l e
heirs of God, and joint heirs with Jesus Christ.
Those words which were unknown to thee, were
meant when I came to try men, whether they would
chuse him or not But it is the three shepherds
agreeing in one, that my Spirit is upon as men,
who bear witness of me: Tney are the shadows, I
am the substance; therefore I chose three and ru>
more, to prove I am the substance of their choice:
for I am the substance there mentioned. Had I
chose one shepherd, men might say he was die maw
they must chuse and not me. Had I chose more
than three shepherds to join the twelve; they could
not be the three on earth, as is written in my gos-
pel: three to bear record of the three in heaven,
and these three to agree in one. So I have shewn
the meaning of the three shepherds in the one—■
and the three have agreed to chuse me as the one.
And now I shall come to the woman’s completing
the happiness of man. By these three agreeing
•with me, thou now standest, and by thy petition
for the coming of my kingdom and for Satan’s de­
struction, that thou wilt complete the happiness
of all men and women, who join with thee in hand
and heart. It is not thy prophecies that complete
their happiness, but sealing their names, that they
have signed for Satan’s destruction, and their de­
sire for my Kingdom that must complete their
happiness in the end. Thy prophecies shall bring
them to the perfect knowledge of the good; but
it is the seals that must complete their happiness
in the end. So man is an helpmate with theej
and thou with them; for this shall complete the
happiness for man. And it is for the sake of
these that elect me for their chosen Priest, and
King, that Satan’s reign shall be shortened. So
these are the elect, for whose sake he shall be east
down. Now I shall go back to the first pages I
ordered thee to mention.—
-It is working high hi
44
Digitized by L i o o g i e
Heaven; Tor till-thi§ V
v&
s working to bring round the
mysteries mentioned in thy prophecies, to fulfil all
I said should be accomplished. Therefore I
brought the double train—one of visions with
thy prophecies to shew you all the end was at hand,
and who were the elect for whom Satan’s reign
should be shortened. I have brought round by the
visions sent to thee, and shewed thee by the let­
ters sent to thee, who were false Prophets, and
false Christs. All this is now brought round toge^
ther, to explain the mysteries; for I have begun in
this new century to open many doors, and shew
you the light that was concealed from man: but I
shall not cease till I have opened every bolted door
to man; and shew you plainly, from the mystery of
the fall, it is the promise, that was made to the
woman, which must complete the happiness of
man; and which promise no one before ever yet
claimed; neither did it enter into their hearts and
thoughts to claim it, before I revealed the mystery
to thee. And this light coming upon weak minds,
is like the sun to weak eyes; they cannot look into
it. For those that have a weak faith concerning
the fall, that the woman’s guilt will never be cast
upon her betrayer’s head, is like weak eyes sitting
in the dark, that can scarcely see when a lighted
candle is brought in. And so this lighted candle,
that must be seated on the table to give light to
all, takes away the light of those, that are weak
in faith of their redemption. For though they *
see the light of the candle appear, by the war
that was deferred for a while, now break out with
more fury than befqre; as they have set up a mo­
narch to make peace with, whose pride is swelled
to the highest pitch—and where pride is envy
follows: if that pride is in the least mortified,
revenge will seek the ruin of that it is mortified
by. Therefore, I said the wars would abound
43
Digitized by Google
more dreadful, arid you would hear the sound lit
this land: and though you do hear the sound; yet,
to thousands it appeareth like a sounding brass, or &
tinkling cymbal: or, like the music in war which
takes away the cries of the dead. And so is the
music of this world in your ears, that it takes
from you the voice and the cry of a crucified Sa­
viour and Redeemer, who is now come in the
Spirit to invite all men to turn unto me, and I
•will turn unto you: but ye will not turn unto me,
hut join in persecution. As I told thee before, I
now tell thee again, as Sodom and Gomorrah per­
secuted the angels which were sent to Lot; so will
men persecute thee, till I shall destroy them in'
my anger. Therefore it is not thy spirit but it is
my Spirit, whom they are persecuting, and doing
all this despite unto; therefore my hand will bd
close upon them to take vengeance on those that
despise my name. For they must know it is my
name they despise, if they now continue. Where
is the man, where is the woman, where is the
power, that could have brought round such truths,
in such a manner; first to speak, next to fulfil?
For as men fulfil the truth of persecution, I shall
fulfil my words of punishing them: for, they must
give honour to the devil, for wisdom, knowledge,
and truth, if they ascribe thy writings to him;
and they must give thee wisdom above Solomon,
if they ascribe the knowledge to thee: first to
speak, next to fulfil, and then to explain. Bring
me the man that can accomplish all these things*
to write and fulfil, as thou hast done. For, as it
was written, Satan should bear the blame the wo­
man cast upon him, and this I have shewn in the
*vision, the woman’s dart over his head, and the
man with the chain round him, treading him under
* This alludes to Joseph Prescott’s Vision of Satanbeing chained,
*
Digitized by v ^ o o s i e
his- Feet, with the fnan’s head-'above Satan’s dart,
and Satan’s head under the woman’s dart; so man
shall ^raise his head, and Satan shall fall: for mine
is past; Satan’s is, to come. And this is the fulfil­
ling of the pages, that I said should bring all tilings
to your remembrance—and now I bring to your
remembrance, to' weigh the past with the present,
what was spoken in years that were -past, and com­
pare them with the manner they are now fulfilling:
How it was written of Satan’s destruction, and in
what manner his destruction was to be accomplish­
ed., For though I have made it so plain before
you, to open your eyes, yet you do but see things
as trees walking, in comparison to what you will
see them hereafter. For those that see, see but
in part; and -those that believe, believe but in
part the perfect happiness that is now in store for
true believers, that their labour of love shall not
be in vain in the Lord, that are now woifers with
me, to bring in my Kingdom of Peace. For as
the past ages opposed my Gospel; so will the
present oppose my Kingdom, till they ar6 scat­
tered, as the Jews were scattered; and destroyed,
as they were destroyed. For 1 may say with Jehu,
what peace while Satan’s witchcrafts are so many,
to bewitch men’s minds, not to seek his destruc-,
tion but their own; not to claim his curse to be
above every man and woman, but to bring your
curse above him? Thus does Satan bewitch the
minds of mankind; and as long as this lasts,
there will be no peace in your land, in your
hearts, nor in your houses; therefore, I knew
what this peace would be; for the sword of the
spirit was not then drawn, as a war against hie;
but I knew it would soon take place; and so the
other sword would follow. These truths are now
before you, and all the others are close upon you.
There is nothing past but' the shadow—the sub-
47 -■
. < Digitized by L , o o Q i e
stance is all to come. The shadow was past m
thy petition for Satan’s destruction; but now is
coming the substance, of taking the sword and
of plunging it in his heart, to avenge the injuries
done to the woman, and to me, by the old ser­
pent, which is the devil. Now is the sword
drawn against him, and it shall not be drawn in
vain; for where/she has fixed it, it shall -remaih.
Know, the petition you all sign to, is the ^petition
of the woman, to take the sword out of my hand
and slay the enemy, that the kingdom may be
mine. For, as Judith slew Holophernes, to free
the Children of Israel, that they might conquer
him; so hath she drawn the sword, that Satan’s
power might be destroyed; and my power to
stand—
-Satan’s kingdom destroyed, and mine to
come, .that God may be all in all. And if the
sword be found but in the hand of fifty righte-
,ous men, it shall prevail over all the powers of
hell. Though, I know I have more than seven
hundred, that will not bow a knee to Baal; that
is, they will not bow to the powers of darkness,
if he stirs.up persecution in mankind against them.
I know they will not fall before them, bat fight
against them; and they shall prevail: for they
shall fight and overcome, and have their parts in
the tree of life; for this is the ^yffrd that was
left to guard it—the promise that was made to the
woman; and now it is drawn, life for life, and
death for deaths My death is past; Sstan’s must
come. So all I said I am now fulfilling, for now
I shall try what is in man; and my arrows shall fly
fast upon them, that, will riot draw their arrows
against the powers of darkness. I shall draw my
arrows against them, and my sword shall appear to
destroy all that mock the coming of their Lord.
For now is every shadow before you, from every
4$
D
'; o o g le
page; and as fast as men fulfil the one, I will go
on to fulfil the other.—
So now.the sleep of Adam see;
You all must be asleep like he,
When I the woman did first create*
If you can’t now discern your fate*
The Bone that first t took from man
Was then a wonder unto him;
And,flotf your wonder may appear*
If you can’t see the mystery clear*
From what I said when at the first, ,
It in the end to man must burst; *
Because my word cannot be broke.
Though hell may rage and men m3y mock*
I first did create her forman’s good ;
For so my word hath ever stood,
Apd I’ll fulfil it in the end;
The bone ofman may break or bend;
But mine’s a.bone cannot be broke*
I said the bone from man I took,
To.make an helpmate for his good ;
And so my wora has ever stood;
And now my word I will fulfil.
So men may judge it, as they will*
When, all together you do weigh,
You must confess ’tis break of day:
Then sure the sun you know must rise;
’Tis time for ah mento grow wise*
And see the mystery of the fall;
Or else too late, I tell you al£ *
You’ll see the day begin to close ; ’
For Satan’s doom too well he knows,
That he must now receive his curse,
And works in men they may not miss
Tofeel the curse, as well as he.—
Wonders in women have been threes
For Eve a wonder was to man;
When I flid create her first for him*
Adam in wonder did appear—
Another wonper you see here,
How she should e’er brine on his curses
Here stood a wonder at the first—
Another wonder was to man, #
When Mary bore theheavenly Son*
, That as a wonder did appear, ^
That she from heaven aBon should boar**-
And here’s a wonder in the third,
, That I shall now fulfil my word,
To change the scenes asat the first. •
From good to evil soon they burst* '.
And now the scenes I’Hchange the same*
. And all shall know my every name*
U
49
• *
Digitized by Google
50
I’ll turnthe evil now to good;
For so my promise ever stood.
So here’s a wonder at the last,
That from the woman all must burst,
To prove I made her not in vain,
Though man against me did complain.
But they may all complain too late,
That now refuse from ner their fate;
To take from her my sealed word—
’Tis the third wonder of the Lord,
That in a woman doth appear.
Weigh deep the whole, and answer here,
How these three wonders so did come ?
You must confess, no woman’s hand
Did ever write such things before,
To prove that I her fall should clear,
And the creation all make good: .
For so my promises have stood
Throughout my Bible unto man.
Though they these things did ne’er discern;
Nor in what manner I did warn,
When I her husband did appear,
Then all her children I should clear,
And great peace on them there should be—
*
Appear, vain men,' and answer me,
If great peace ever came to man,
Since Adam’s fall, in every land;
Or, where’sthe righteous this can boast?
Since Adam’s fell their peace was lost:
Because fromCain the strife began ;
And in all ages this hath been,
I tell you, to this very day;
And where’s the man can this deny?
For, in this age, ’tis now the same;
And who can boast he knows my name; *
That great peace now they do enjoy
And none their peace do e’er destrby^j^v
You cannot prove, since Adam’s fall, ^ ‘
That I my cnildren so did call:
Forto enjoya~perftictpeace.
No! Satan’s arts, Isay, must cease,
Before my children this can see,
And I your common Parent be;
That Wthe Father ofyou all:
AnAtfteitfny peace will*surely fall,
Andgreat peace on the earthyou’ll see* ;
Because your Mother I shall freej
From the transgressionofthe first; ’
Then man is free, and Satan’s cast; '
For your redemption so must come.
I’ve open’d now the doors to man,
That have been bolted since the fall;
And deadto knowledge you areaU;
Becaftee these things no man did we* \
That I have now reveal’d to thee.
But bad they all been known before, I
I tell you plain, mankind would err;
Because a thief would come tdo soon, ,
And plead those promises theirown;
And men would be deceiv’d thereby. '
Then sure my word must ever lie,
Stolen all from me by Satan’s arts;
And man would alwaysfelt his dart,
• By robbing him of every peace,
And he that way his fate would miss,
If I had not conceal’d my word,
The way I meant to bruise his head,
. That he could ne’er break through or steal;
Because it never was reveal’d,
Till I’ve reveal’d it now to thee,
The way I’ll bruise the head ofhe;
That is, the serpent I do mean;
As Satan did visit in that form,
And so. he gave to Eve a sting,
That now Pll cure, and him condemn.
For stinging of her at the first—
To slay your murderers it isjust;
And so injustice I’ll appear.—
The bolted doors are open’d here,
If men have eyes the sight to see;
But if they are blind, they blind must be,
If they can’t now see through the whole.
The woman caus’d the devil’s fall;
And ’tis for her he must be cast;
My Law and Gospel so are plac’d, x
That justice must in all appear.
For Abel’s blood I told them here
Would be avenged on the Cains.
Then now let all men call to mind,
The sword went through my Mother’s soul,
By Satan’s arts, I tell you all;
And Eve receiv’d it at the first,
When Cain in fury so did burst,
To slay in anger then herson,
The righteous Abel, it was known;
But know, ’twas Satan brought the blow
Upon the woman first, you know;
Then sure must all come back on he,
Whenjustice comes the whole to free.
And so her witness must appear—
The woman cast her murderer here,
That robb’d her of her every bliss;
And ’tis by her he must be cast.
So now oflearning boast no more,
If you can’t see the justice clear,
That I amjust, as God and Man:
For like your laws I’ve laid my plan;
p 2
51
Digitized by Google
And if my plan you now do blam«, T
Then all your laws you put to shame*
So all together now compare,
In every page is mentioned here;
And see how I have brought them round—
And will you say from hell’s the sound?
Or, will you say a woman’s head
Such curious mysteries ever laid,
To bring them all in a straight line
And prove my Bible truth divine? .
That all your learning cannot do;
No man can prove my Bible true,
By any judgment you do form.
From Adam’s fal you still go on
To prove my judgment wrong at first,
And so you judge the end must burst.
Then I am wrong throughout the whole,
If I don’t free the woman’s fall,
And bring the wonder in the end,
That’s in the Revelation penn’d,
To tread the powers of darkness down—
For light in darkness he was found; .
And light in darkness he doth shine, .
In every dark, benighted mind;
But that I’ll tread beneath her feet.
And all will find the mystery great,
Of this third wonder to appear, -
That in a woman you see here; .
Because a wonder she must be,
If you do judge it came all Irom she %
And if from hell you judge the sound,
A wonder then must sure be found,
That he should come to prove his fall,
The justice now from heaven to call;
To say my prpmises were there, >
And now I ought the whole to clear,
To bring the curse upon his head,
As in the fall it there was laid. ,
So here’s a wonder in the first,
If either way the words you place,
And will not say it came from heaven,
That all these wonders now are given,
To shew you all the bolted door,
Wherein are blessings now in store,
That must be hastening on for man—
** The Sun of Righteousness is come,
With healing in his wings appears,
Satan to cast, our guilt to clear;
And so the woman now he’ll free, *
That heirs of God we all might be.
So here’s a wonder in the last,
As ’twas to Adam at the first,
To see the woman change the stream,
Turn back the tide again on him,
5%
Digitized by Google
\
1
That chang’d the stream to her at first,
When she m happiness was plac’d;
And now she’ll change the tide the same,
Turn back the waves from whence they earner
Because her Lord is now her friend:
As well he knew she was betray’d.
. The Mighty Counsellor now cloth plead:
r As an old counsellor at the bar, •
The innocence of one to clear,
That he can prove hath been betray’d,
* And cast the guilt upon the head
Of himthat doth deserve the blame.”
And now I am come to act the same;
The Mighty Counsellor to appear,
. My Father’s wisdom for to clear,
In making ofthe woman first,
And prove his wisdom in the last, -
The way he’ll free you fromthe fall.
The woman’s words, I tell you all,
Must free the fatal fall of man—
My Father’s words shall ever stand,
That by her seed I’ll bruise his head—
Eleven disciples, it is said,
Stood firmly by me in the end;
And now/ 1say eleven men
J chose asjudges to appear,
And plac’d a Child the tw elve to clear,
So all are come now like the child ;
You’ve'all to learn; and manisYou’d.
In all the knowledge they did learn,
My Bible no man did discern,
That I should bring it round this way.
Learning diclall the Jews betray ;
Because their learning they plac’d wrong;
And so the learning is of man.
Therefore onejudge I chose a Child,
That ne’er in learning can be foil’d;
Because all nations now will see ,
The truth go on fulfill’d to be,
Before that Child can learning gain,
To prove his calling wasin vain,
When he was chosen to stand with man,
To have the twelve together stand. * *
That he withthem stood on thy head,
They’ll find the truth of what thou’st said;
When he in learning doth appear,
He’ll learn the truth ofall to clear;
And then the^Ury-men he’ll free.
And own theirjudgment truelo be.
So I am the Counsellor now for man,
And the twelve Judges they will stand
* As stars to shine upon thy head: .
The twenty-four may be said , ;
To worship the® before my throne,
* And all my wondrous counsel own,;
53
digitized by Google
. Thatjustice shone in all was said,
Trom the creation it was laid.
So now together weigh the whole,
Mark every page what there was told.
Before the sealing thou dost know
That men must sign to strike the blpw,
To have the devil to be cast—
Mark all before, how it was plac’d.
In the sixth book it doth appear;
Mark well the words were spoken there:
Before the sealing thou didst know,
That thou'ffttttf seal the people so,
The evil fruit for to pull down.
I told thenrthen tojudge the sound;
But never toldthem how’t would be,
The evil fruit pull’d down by thee,
Until the sealing did appear,
That thou’st begin the following year;
And then the mysteries all come round.
I ask, what man can judge this sound?
Contrived by a woman’s head,
Without the Lord her spirit led?
No? ifthe whole you ao compare,
You all m
ustknowtheLordishere,
To try the judgment deep of men,
And prove theirknowledge dead is come;
Or else the Spirit they would know,
None but a God the truth could shew,
As it hath been reveal’d by thee.
The past and present let them see*
As the third harvest doth appear;
You own it good now every where;
The war deferred you first did see,
And now broke out, as said by the*;
Then both together now compare,
You must confess the truth is here;
And so the truth is in the past—
*
And now the whole is hastening fast4’
54
The Child, that is here alluded to, on the 12 th
of January, 1803, was not eighteen months old,
that how stands as a Type to all Nations, that,
like that Child, they have all to learn, if they will
come to the full redemption in Christ Jesus. The
knowledge of the tree, being good and evil, was
never understood by any man; that as Satan’s
arts brought them to the knowledge of the evil,
so the’power and wisdom of God must bring them
to the knowledge of the good, through the
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
merits of Christ, who was bora of the woman to
redeem the fajl of women. For, as I was born o f
her, so I was born for her, to seal the doom of
her betrayer. But, know, O vain men, the shadow
must begin by the woman, and the substance shall
follow by me, that am your Redeemer, to accom­
plish the will of my Father, in what he created the
woman for—to be your help-mate for your good.
Now, answer me, ye worldly-wise men, why ye
tookfrom her hcmd the evil, and now refuse to take
the good ?
55
JOANNA SOUTHCOTT,
Entered at Stationers H all.
LONDON:
Printedby Galabin & Merchant, Ingram-Court; and sold by Chapel
Place, Duke Street, Westminster Road, Southwark; also byW Symonds,
Gandy Lane ; and the Miss Evelbichs, St. Sidwell’s, Exeter; S. Hirst*
Leeds; J. M iddleton, York; and Jahbs Light, Coventry Street,
Stourbridge, Worcestershire*
(Price One Shilling.)
Digitized by
