{"name":"The Ruins","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1811__volney___the_ruins.pdf","mytitle":"The Ruins","mylang":"de"}
1 :‘_ \
1.. ‘ ,'r ' . ' l'
=:\:‘..\§\(\\\ \\W\ \"\"r:\ »U,-.Z.0 \ '5- C. \\J..‘5 i= 3» “Q '\
) . l .
.'.. B_Q\N\t\% 3 r:c:r\i'¥\'§-__
_/ _
NEW TRANSLATION
. V \ 01-' . .
' \
Y\;()IZNEY’sARUINs ;
OR
.niED1}1'.ari’10ar's
on Tim
’REVOLUTION OF EMPIREJ M "'
.q
” Q’
. .% A _
_
I
MADE UNDER
L
THE INSPECTION OF THE AUTHoR."i:7T“'};“F -"'
\‘
‘ >'\..
9" .. +
_ ‘
r' \_ f’ . . . ~.
” .-‘
DUBLIN: ' " . F; '.
8 ‘
ﬂaxnrén FOR noon 3: cU'rnnL.L, WALKER 8: 0GEL\.k;,.7
VERNON 8: MAxwE'LL, ROBINSON Sc LAW, KEARS
.P
.LEY 8:. nARTo\1, cuzzcn 8: BELL, BURST &: . “
RICHARDSON, oamn 81 cAnE'LL, wmsox "
8: STOGKDALE, RI .JOHSSTON, AND
‘Q; R. RIVINGTONT Q J l
_-.-_ _. Q’ " f~";’ ;
’L. 1*. .g’“9"",':. 3'
‘‘ ‘ ' ', . .~? . . 0|
1§ll'‘ ’..¢*"'+-_‘ “‘ . .
. A .
" Lia
-...
ﬁir.’
wr"~‘_-_-'‘’‘'-’.:
‘--_‘
.
':
w
4’
L
.
'
{)7
//.'/l/Ill/ll/'
////_._//I/.'/
)
_
/}III/)I//H//
¢All_/.{/
11'/I.,)f’J/I)
dp
_"|lll
{$/.)/7’//',,_”,)Z
W//_
_-7"."/"’}17”
1’*’*’""/II
/'
//’.'."
vI¢//
rum
L
_
(
0
f?l%///7.)7f'Il
ll.!/L/./ll!!!)
1/1}
/(!_!///%/
////
J4’_1//
’
*3
uses
a.>
’°\>
£6" Hi"
' PREFAGE ‘ '_ '
0', .m.,.
TRANSLATOR.
————
TO offer the public a .new Translation of
Volney’s Ruins may require some apology in
the view ofthose who are acquainted with the
work only in English version which already
' exists, and which has had a.general circulation,
.But those who are conversant with .the hook in
the author’s own language, and have taken pains
to compare it. with that version, must have
been struck with the eri"o1‘s'''\w'\r’i'tli'=iv'l'1i~cl1--..‘mB\‘!_’,*:§; .
English performance abounds. They must
. haveregretted the loss ofmanyoriginalbeauties ;
some of which go far in composing the essen
tial merits‘ofthe work. .
The energy and dignity of the author’s man
ner, the unaﬁ'eeted elevation of his style, the
consciousness, perspieuity and simplicity of his
diction, are every where suited. to ‘.ifjﬁsfsulijcct‘;
which is solemn, novel, luminous, aﬁi'etingg a.
subject perhaps the most—universallyinteresting
to the human race thatlhas ever been presented
to their contemplation. It takes most;hbé-.
VI PREFACE
ral andcomprehensive view of the social state of
man, developes the sources of his errors in the
’Qost perspicuous and convincing manner, over
turns his prejudices with the greatest delicacy
and moderation, sets the wrongs he has suffered,
and the rights he ought to cherish, in the clear
est point of view, and lays before him the true
foundation of morals, his only means of happi
ness.
As the work has already become a classical
one, even in English, and as it must become and
continue to be so regarded in all languages in
which it shall be faithfully rendered, we wish
it to suffer as little as possible from a change of
country; that as much of the spirit of the ori
ginal be transfused and preserved as is consist
ent with the nature of translation.
How far we have succeeded in performing
this service for the English reader we must;
not pretend to determine. We believe we have
made a better translation than the former one ;
and this will be no great merit in us, since we
have had two advantages which our predecessor
had not: we have been aided by his labours;
and, what is more, our work has been done
under the inspection of the author ; whose cri
tical knowledge of both languages has given us
a great facility in avoiding such errors as might
arise from hurry or mistake.
Paris, 1 November, 1802.
-Q
INVOCATION.
- ' i
.' -‘O.
F
HAIL solitary ruins, holy sepulchres and silent
walls! youl invoke; to you I address my prayer.
While your aspect averts, with secret dread, the
vulgar regard, it excites, in my heart, the charm of
delicious sentiments, sublime contemplations; How
many useful lessons, how many reﬂections, affecting
and profound, do you. suggest to the mind which
knows how to consult you I When the whole earth,
in chains and silence, was yet crouching under the
rod of tyrants, youhad already proclainied the truth:
which they abhor ; and confounding the (iust of the
king and of the Li.ave, had announced to man the sa
cred dogma of Equality. Within your pale, in soli
tary adoration of liberty, I saw her Genius arise from
the mansions ofthe dead ; not such as she is painted
by the impassioned multitude, armed With ﬁre and
sword; but under the august and benign aspect of
Justice, poising in her handthe sacred balance, where
in are weighed the actions of men at the gates of
eternity.
Oh tombs ! what virtues are your’s ! you appal the
tyrant’s heart, and poison with secret alarm his impi
ous joys. He ﬂies, with coward steps, yourincorrupti
ble aspect, and erects far from you his throne of in
solenceﬁ’E You punish the powerful oppressor; you
' The cathedral of St. Denis is the tomb of the kings of
France ; and it was because the tow: rs of tha éiﬁce are
seen fiom the Castle uf St Germain, that Louis XIV"'quilted
that admirable residence, and established a' new one in the
savage forests of Versaules. rm
..
VIII INVOCATION
wrest from avarice and extortiontheir ill-gotten gold;
you avenge the feeble whom they have despoiled ;
you compensate the miseries of the poor by the anxi
eties of the rich; you console the wretched by open- ‘
ing to him a last asylum from distress ; and you give
to the soul that just equipoise of strength and sen
sibility, which constitutes wisdom the true science of .
life. Aware that all must be returned to you, the wise
man loadeth not himself with the burdens of grandeur
and of useless wealth ; he restrains his desires with
in the limits of justice ; yet, knowing that he must
run his destined course of life, he ﬁlls with employ
ment allits hours, and accepts, as he goes, the com
forts vlhich fortune presents him. Thus do you im
pose on the impetuous sallies of cupidity a salutary
rein ; you thus calm the feverish ardor ofenjoyments
which disturb the senses ;. you ti'an.o_uillize the soul
from the fatiguing conﬂict of the passions, elevate it
above the paltry interests which torment the crowd ;
an'—i, surveying from your commanding position the
expanse of ages and nations, the mind openeth itself
only to the great affections, to the solid ideas of virtue
and glory.
Ah ! when the dreams of life shall be passed, what
will have availed all its agitations, if it leave’ not one
trace of utility behind ?
O Ruins I to your school I will return I I will seek
again the calm of your solitudes ; and there, far from
the aﬂiicting spectacle of the passions, I will cherish
in remembrance the love of man, employ myself on
the means of effecting good for him, and build my
own happiness on the promotion of his.
a
THE
RUINS OF EMPIRES.
CHAPTER I.
THE JOURNEY
IN the eleventh year ofthe reign of.Abd-ul-Hamid,
son of Ahmid, emperor ofthe Turks ; about the time
when the Nogsis-Tartars were driven from the Cri
mea, and when a mussulman prince, of the blood of
Gengis-Kahn, became the va ssal and guard of a chris
tian woman and queen,* I was travelling in the Utte
man dominions, and through those prnuinnes which
were anciently the kingdoms of Egypt and Syria.
'c. .
' In the eleventh year of .)7ba''ul'Hamid, that is 1784 of thev
Christian era, and 1198 of the Hegira. The emigration .of '
the Tartar: took place in March, immediately on the mani
festo ofthe empress, declaring the Crimea to be incorporated
with Russia. The Musrulnlan pri‘ce of the blood of Gengig
Khan, was Chahin'Cue1ai. C engis.Khan was borne arid
served by the kings whom he conquered: Chahin, onﬂhe
contrary, after selling his countty for apension rafcight;yJhou
sand roubles, accepted the commission of 6a})Ull'I_I’0f gtprds
to Catherine II : he afterwards returned hon3i,Wcord
ing to custom, was strangled by the Turlni“: 9? ' " "T ~
lb CHAPTER I.
My whole attention bent on whatever concerns the
happiness of man in a social state. I visited cities, and
studied the manners of their inhabitants; ClIICl.%Il pa
laces, and observed the conduct of those who govern;
wandered over the ﬁelds, and examined the condition
of those who cultivated them ; ﬁnding in every place
nothing but plunder and devastation, tyranny and
wretchedness, my heart sunk with sadness and indig
nation.
I
M. I saw, daily on my road, ﬁelds abandoned, villages '
deserted, and cities in ruin. Often I met with an
cient monuments, wrecks of temples, palaces and for
tresses, colnmns, aqueducts, and tombs. This spec
tacle led me to meditate on times past, and ﬁlled my
mind with contemplation the most serious and pro
found. _
‘s
I arrived at the city of Hems, on the border of the
omntes; and there, ﬁnding myselfin the neighbour
hood of Palmyra ofthe Desert, I resolved to see its cel
ebrated ruins. After three days journeying through
arid deserts, ha_ing n-=wereed the Valley of Caves and
Sepulchres, on issuing into the plain, I was suddenly
struck with a scene of the most stupendous ruins; it
countless mul.titude of superb columns, stretching in
avenues beyond the reach of sight. Among these
were magniﬁcent ediﬁces, some entire,some in ruins;
.the earth every where strewed with fragments ofcor
nisin s, capitals, shafts, entablaturcs, pilasters, all of
white marble, arid ofthe most exquisite workmanship.
After three quarters of an hour’s walk along these
ruins, I entered the enclosure ofa vast ediﬁce, for
merly a temple dedicated to the Sun ; and ~accepting
CHAPTER L 3
the hospitality of some poor Arabian peasants, who \
had built their hovels on the area of the temple, I de
termined to devote some days to the contempiation of
these beauties in detail. .'t
I daily visited the monuments which cover the
plain ; and one evening, absorbed in reﬂection, I had .
advanced to the Valley of Sepulchres. I ascended
the heights which surround it, from whence the eye
commands the whole group of ruins and the immen
sity of the desert. The sun was set ; a red border
of light, on the distant horizon of the mountains'of
Syria, still marked its tract : the full-orbed moon was
rising in the east, on a blue ground, over the plains
of the Euphrates; the sky was clear, the air calm and
serene; the dying lamp of day still softened the hor- .
tors of approaching darkness ; the rising freshness \ F..,
of the night attempered the sultry emanations from.
the heated earth ; the herdsmen had given their ca- '.'
mels to repose ; the eye perceived no motion on the. . "5,
dusky and uniform plain; profound silence rested on I": _
the desert ; the howlings only of the jackal*, and the K :
solemn notes ofthe bird ofnight, were heard at distant
intervals. Darkness now thickened; and already,
through the duskfcould only be discerned the pale
phantasms of columns and walls. The solitude of
the place, the tranquillity of the hour, the majesty of L
the scene, impressed on my mind areligiouspensive-F . .
ness. The aspect of a great city deserted, the re- ' v
\
.cord of times past, compared with its present state, ‘ 4;.
I
' An animal considerably like the fox. but less cunning,“
and of' a h=..deous aspect It lives upon dead bodies amongst
rocks and ruins. '"i';''. .
Q CHAPTER I.
all elevated my mind to high contemplations. I at
on the shaft of a column, my elbow reposing on my
knee, and head reclining on my hand, my eyes ﬁxed,
sometimes on the desert, sometimes on the 131135;!
abandoned myselfto a profound reverie3
CHAPTER II.
THE REVERIFL
HERE, said I, here once ﬂourished an opulent '
city ; here was the seat of apowerful empire. Yes !
these places, now wild and desert, were once ani.
mated by a living multitude; abusy crowd circulated
in these streets now solitary. “’ithin these walls, 1
where now reigns the silence of death, resounded
incessantly the noise of the arts, and the shouts ofjoy
and festivity : these piles of marble were regular _
palaces; these fallen columns adorned the majesty of
temples;these ruined galleries traced the public pla
ces. Here assembled at numerous people for the
sacred duties of their religion, and the aiiccting cares
of their subsistence; here industry, parent of enjoy
ments, collected the riches of all climates ; and the
purple of Tyre was exchanged for the precious
thread of Serica* ; the soft tissues of Cassimire for
' That is the silk originally derived from the mountainous
.country where the great 'wall terminates, and which appears
to have been the cradle of the Chinese Empire . . . . . The
tissues of Cnssimere. The shawls which Ezekiel seems to
have described under the appellation of Cboud'clsgud . . . .
The Grid qf Ophir. This country, which was one ofdtéitwelve
Arab Cantons, and which has so much and so unsuccesisfully
been sought for by the sntiqusries, has left, however, some
trace ofitself in Ofor, in the province ofOman upon the Per
sian Gulph, neighbouring on one side to the Sabeans, who .
are celebrated by Strabo for their plenty of gold, and on the.
other to Aula or Hevila where the pearl ﬁshery was carried
on. See the 27th chapter of Ezekiel, which gives a very eu
rious and extensive picture of the commerce of Asia at tha_t
period. _ . ..’ “W
B ' . '
6 . CHAPTER II.
the sumptuous tapestry of Lydia; the amber of the
Baltic for the pearls and perfumes of Arabia; the
gold of Ophir for the tin of 'l'hulé : and now behold
What remains of this powerful city ; a miserable
skeleton! what of its vast domination ; a doubtful
and empty remembrance! To the noisy concourse
which thronged under these porticoes succeeds the
solitude of death. The silence of the grave is substi
tuted for the bum ofpublic places; the wealth ofa
commercial city is changed into hideous poverty;
the palaces of kings become the den of wild beasts ;
ﬂocks fold on the area of the temples, and ﬁlthy rep
tiles inhabit the sanctuary of the gods. Ah! how
has so much glory been eclipsed ! how have been an
nihilated so many labours ! Do thus then perish the
works of men I thus vanish empires and nations 1
And the history of former times revived in my
mind; I recollected those ancient ages when many
and famous nations inhabited these countries ; I.ﬁg
ured to myself the Assyrian on the banks of the Ty
gris, the Chaldean on those of the Euphrates, the Per
sian reigning from the Indus to the Mediterranean.
I enumerated the kingdoms of Damascus and of idu
mea, of JcI.LISﬂi€I'Il and of Samaria, the warlike states
ofthe Philistines,and the commercial repulics ofPhoe
nicia. This Syria, said I, now so depopulated, coun
ted then a hundred powerful cities* : her face was
covered with towns, villages and hamlets. In all parts
"'l\were seen cultivatedﬁelds,throngc(l roads and crowd-'
ed habitations : ah ! whither have ﬂown those ages
. lé
' According to Josephus and Strabo. there were in Syria
twelve millions of souls ; and the tract n that remain of curb l
ture and habitation conﬁrm the calculation. '
.‘.';'£I
‘CHAPTER II. 7
of life and abundance ? whither gone those brilliant
creatures of the hand of man ? Where are they, those
ramparts of Niniveh, those walls of Babylon, palaces
of Persepolis, temples of Balbec and of Jerusalem ?
Where are those ﬂeets of 'l'yre, dock-yards of Arad,
work-shops ot Sidon, and‘that multitude of sailors, of
pilots, of merchants, of soldiers ? And those husband
men, harvests, Socks, and all the creation ofliving .
beings in which tae face of the earth rejoiced ? Alas !
I have passed over it, this desolated land! I have seen
the places, once the theatre of so much splendor;
and I found only abandonment and solitude..... I
sought the ancient inhabitan,s, and their works ; and
I found nothing but a trace, like that ofthe foot ofa
traveller over the sand. The temples are fallen, the
palaces overthrown, the ports ﬁlled up, the cities de
stroyed ; and the earth, stripped ofinhabitants, is be
come a place of sepulchres. . . . . . Great God I
whence proceeds these fatal revolutions ? From what
causes are changed the fortunes of these countries ?
Wherefore so many cities destroyed? \Vhy has not
this ancient population been reproduced and perpe
tuated? '
'\ 45~ .
Thus plunged in meditation, a crowd ofhew rein» ~h '
ﬁections continually poured in upon my mind. Every
thing, continued 1, bewilders my judgment, ﬁlls me
with grief and doubt. When these countries enjoyed
what constitutes the glory and happiness of man, they
were inﬁdel nations which inhabited them; it we Q
the Phoenician, that murderous~'sacri~ﬁce to 1\Iolo_;§?,
who gathered into his stores the richest of alleli
mates ; it was the Chaldean, j>i'0stra_te belbre his ser
pent-godﬁ who subjugated opt1lent”v"cities, tlcspoiled '
“’ The dragon Bell.
H '
..4"!
r
a CHAFTER n..
the palaces of kings, and the temples of the gods; it
was the Persian, adorer of ﬁre, who received the tri
bute of a hundred nations ; it was the inhabitant of
this very city, worshipper of the sun and stars, who
raised so many monuments of prosperityand luxury.
Numerous herds, fertile ﬁelds, abundant harvests,
I' whatsoever should be the reward of piety, was in the
; hands of these idolaters. And now, when a people of
. saints and believers occupy these fields, all is become
l sterility and solitude. The earth, under these holy, .
hands, produces only thorns and briars. Man soweth
in anguish and reapeth tears and cares ; war, famine,
pestilence assail him by turns. And yet, are not these
the children ofthe prophets ? the Mussulman, Chris
tian,Jew,ere they not the elect children of God,load—
ed with favours and miracles ? why then do these
privileged races nolonger enjoy the same advantages?
why are these ﬁelds, sanctiﬁed by the blood ofmartyrs,
deprived of their ancient beneﬁts ? why those beneﬁts
banished hence, and transferred, ages and ages since,
to other countries. ' >
At these words, my mind pursuing thevicissitudes
which have transmitted the sceptre of the world suc
cessively to people so different in religion and man
'ners from those of ancient Asia, to the most recent
of Euro/le, this name of a natal land revived in me
the sentiment of my country ; and turning my eyes
towards her, I ﬁxed all my thoughts on the situation
inwhich I had left her*. .
I recalled her ﬁelds so richly cultivated, her roads
so sumptuously formed, her cities inhabited bya
“ In 1782, at the close ofthe American war.
CHAPTER II. 9
countless people, her ﬂeets spread over every sea,
her ports covered with the tribute ofboth the indies,
and, comparing with the activity of her commerce,
the extent of her navigation, the richness ofher mon
uments, what Egypt and Syria had once possessed, I
was gratiﬁed to ﬁnd in modern Europe the departed
splendor of Asia. But soon the charm of my reverie
was dissolved by a last term of comparison : reﬂect
ing that such had once been the activity ofthe places
I was then contemplating, who knows, said I, but such
may one day be the abandonment of our countries ?
Who knows 'if on the banks of the Seine, the
Thames, or the Zuyder-zee, where‘ now, in the
vortex of so many enjoyments, the heart and the eye
sufﬁce not for the multitude of sensations, who knows
if some traveller, like me, shaipnot one day sit on
their silent ruins, and weep in solitude over the ashes
.oftheir people, and the memory oftheir greatness ?
' At these \vords,my eyes ﬁlled with tears ;and cover
ing my head with the fold of my mantle, I sunk into
gloomy meditationson all human things. Ah ! hapless
man ! said 1 in my grief, a blind 'fat.ality sports with
thy destinies !" A fatal necessity rules with the
hand of chance the lot of mortals. But no : it is the
justice of heaven fulﬁlling its decreesl. a God ofmys-
tery exercising his incomprehensible. jndginent ! .
Dqubtless he has pronounced a secret .anathema
1.
against this land ; blasting with maledictions the pre_- ' ,
0'
' This is the universal and rooted prejudice ofthe Ens.ti
to |t was written," is there the answer to every thing ' Henu
Iesult an uncnncern and apathy, the must povl§erl'uliii1pe\ii‘
nents to instruction and civilization; _
I2
to CHAPTER III.
sent, for the sins of the past generations. Oh ! who
shall dare to fathom the depths of God ?
.l I remained motionless, and sunk in profound me
lanchqly.
CHAPTER III.
THE APPARITION.
L ‘ HILE thus absorbed, a sound struck my ear,
like that of the agitation Of a ﬂowing robe, and of slow
footsteps on dry and rustling grass. Startled, I open-.
ed my mantle, and looking about with fear and trem
bling, suddenly, on my left, by the glimmering light
of the moon, through the columns and ruins of a
neighbouring temple, I thought I saw an apparition,
pale, clothed in large and ﬂowing robes, such as
spectres are painted rising from their tombs. I
shuddered ; and while agitated and hesitating
whether to ﬂy or to ascertain the object, adeep voice,
in solemn tone, pronounced these words : J
How long will man importune heaven with unjust
complaint ? how long, with vain clamors, accuse
1''fate ofhis sufferings ? VVill be for ever shut his eyes
/’ to the light, and his heart to the insinuations of truth
' and reason ? The light of truth meets him every
where; yet he sees it not ! the voice of reason strikes
_ his ear; and he hears it not I Unjust man I if, for a
A ‘ ’ . _
CHAPTER III. _ll
moment,you can suspend the delusion which fasci
nates your senses, if your heart is capable of com
prehending the language of reason, interrogate these
ruins! read the lessons which they oﬂ'er...... And
you, evidences of twenty centuries, holy tejnples,
venerable tombs, walls once so glorious, appear in
the cause of nature hersdf! approach the tribu
nal of sound reason, and here witness against unjust
accusations‘. come and confound the declamations
of a false wisdom or hypocritical piety, and avenge
earth and heaven of man, who calumniates them
both. '
VVhat is that blind fatality, Which, without order
and without law, sports. with the lot ofmortals ? what
is that unjust necessity, which confounds the effect of
actions, whether of wisdom or of folly? in what
consist those anathcmas of heaven over this land?
where is that malediction of God which perpetu
ates the abandonment of these ﬁelds. Say, mon
i
unients of ancient times! have the heavens chang- _
ed their laws and the earth its motion? are the 1
ﬁres of the sun extinct in the regions of space ? do
the seas no longer emit their vapors ? are the
rains and the dews suspended in .the air? do the
mountains withhold their springs ? ‘ are the streams
dried up 2 and bear the plants no longer.seeds and
fruits ? Answer, generation of falsehood and ini
qnity! has God deranged the primitive and settled
order of things which himself assigned to nature 2
has heaven denied to earth,andearth to its inhabitants,
the good things which once they proifered ? if noth
ing has changed in the creation, if the same 1heans
exist now which existed before, why then are not the
'_'“l’‘pi'e$ent what former generations were? _Aiz} it is
'5'-'
Y.
ll
// 'K
‘ I 12 CHAPTER III.
falsely that you accuse fate and heaven! it is with
wrong that you refer to God the cause of your evils !
Say,perverse and hypocritical race,if these places are
desolate, if these powerful cities are reduced to soli
tude, is it God who has caused their ruin ? is it his
hand which has overthrown these walls, ruined these
temples, mutilated these columns, or is it the hand
of man ? is it the arm of God which has carried the
sword into your cities, and ﬁre into your ﬁelds, which
has slaughtered the people, burnt the harvests, root- "
ed up trees, and destroyed cultivation, or is it the
arm of man? And when, after the destruction of
crops, famine has ensued, is it the vengeance of God
Which has produced it, or the mad fury of man ? _
‘Vhen, sinking under famine, the people have fed on
impure alimcnts, if pestilence ensued, it is the wrath
of God which sends it, or the folly of man ? VVhen
war, famine, and pestilence, have mown down the in
habitants, if the earth remains a desert, is it God that
has dispeopled it ? ls it his his rapacity which robs '
the husbandman, ravages the fruitful ﬁelds, and
wastes the earth 2 or is it the rapacity of those who
govern ? Is it his pride which excites murderous
wars, or the pride of kings and their ministers ? is it
the corruption of his decisions which reverses the
fortunes of families, or the corruption of the organs
of the law? are they his passions which, underathou
sand forms torment individuals and people, or are
they the passions of man 3 if, in the anguish of their
miseries, they see not the remedies, is it the igno
rance of God which is to blame, or their ignorance ?
Cease then, mortals, to accuse the decrees off.ate, or
the judgments of God! If God is good, will he be
the author of your misery ? if he is just, will he be
CHAPTER III.. 1 5
the accomplice of your crimes ? No l the caprice of
which man complains is not the caprice of fate ; the
darkness wherein his reason wanders is not the
darkness of God ; the germ of his calamities is not
planted in the heavens on high ; it is beside him on
the earth; it is not hidden in the bosom of God ; it
dwells within himself, he hears it in his own heart.
Thou murmurest and sayest : what! have an in
ﬁdel people then enjoyed the blessings of heaven and
earth ? Are the holy of God less fortunate than the
races ofimpiety ? Deluded man I where then is the
. pontradiction which otfends thee ? where is the enig
rna which you impute to the justice ofhcaven ? Take
into your own hands the balance of rewards and
punishments, of causes and effects. Say ! when these
inﬁdels observed the laws ofthe heavens and of the
earth, when they regulated well-planned labours by
the order of the seasons and course of the planets,
should the Almighty have disturbed the equilibrium
ofthe universe to defeat their prudence ? When their
hands cultivated these ﬁelds with toil and care, should
he have diverted the course of the rains, suspended
the refreshing dews, and spread here crops ofthorns ?
\Vhen, to fertilize these arid ﬁelds, their industry
constructed aqueducts, dug canals, and led across the
desert the distant waters, should he have dried up
their sources in the mountains ? should he have blast
ed the harvest which their art had made to grow,
wasted the plains with peace had peopled, overthrown
cities which labour prospered ? disturbed, in ﬁne, the
order established by the wisdom of man ?. And what
is that Inﬁdelity which founded empires by its plu
dence, defended them by its valour, and sirenghtened
them by its justice; which built powerful cities_ form
ed capacious ports, drained pestilential marshtij
14 CHAPTER-III.
covered the ocean with vessels, the earth with inha‘‘
bitants ; and, like the creating spirit, spread life and
I motion over the world ? If such he Iqﬁdelﬁy, what
ithen is the true ﬁiirh ? Does sanctity consist in de
. struction ? the God who peoples the air with birds,
the earth with animals, the waters with ﬁshes; the
God who animates all nature; is he then aGod of
ruins and tombs 2 demands he devastation for homage,
and conﬂagration for sacriﬁce ? requires he groans
for hymns, murderers for votaries, a ravaged and de
sert earth for his temple ? Behold then, holy and be
lieving people, what are your works ! behold the fruits
of your piety ! you have murdered the people, burnt’
theircities, destroyed cultivation, reduced the earth
to a solitude ; and you ask the reward of your works !
Miracles then must be performed! thewallsre-ediﬁed
which you have overthrown. the harvest repro
duced which you have destroyed, the waters gather
ed together which you have dispersed; the laws, in
ﬁne, of the heavens and of the earth reversed ;those
laws, established by God himself, in demonstration of
his magniﬁcence and rrisdom ; those eternal laws
anterior to all codes, to all the prophets; those im
moveable laws, which neither the passions.hbi the
ignorance of .mail can alter. But that’jidésion which
mistaketh, that igrloraqcc which observeth not causes,
npr looketh to effects, hath said in the folly of its
Heart “ all things ﬂow from chance ; a blind fatality
poureth out good and evil on the earth, so that wisdom
herselfis without a guard,”0r, assuming the language
of hypocrisy, they have said “ all things are from
God; he taketh pleasure in deceiving wisdom and
confounding reason.” And Ignorance, applauding
herself in her malice, hath said, “ thus $will place
myself on a par with that science whichitiortiﬁes me;
1
\
-'1,
CHAPTER III. “" 15
I will render useless that prudence which fatigues
and torments me ;” and Avarice hath added, “ I will
oppress the weak, and devourthe fruits of his labours;
and I will say, it is fate which hath so ordained."
But I ! I swear by the laws of heaven and earth, and
by the law which is writtenjn the heareof man, the
hypocrite shall be deceived in his cunning, the op
pressor' in his rap.aeity; the sun shall change his
course, before folly shall prevail over wisdom and
knowledge, or blindness wrest the meed from pru
dence in the delicate and sublime art of procuring to
.man his true enjoymcms, and of building his happi
ness on a shlid foundation .
\ '\".
\ hovel where it is debased by misery.
. the desert and dwell among ruins : I will interrogate
' ancient monuments on the wisdom of times past ; I
' will invoke from the bosom of the tombs the spirit
5 i
CHAPTER IV.
‘it
THE EXPOSITXODL '
, .
THUS spoke the Phantom. Confounded with this
discourse, and my heart agitated with different reﬂec
tions, I remained long in silence .; at length, taking
courage, I thus addressed him: Oh, Genius of these
tombs andruinsl thy presence,thy severitahavedisow
deredmy senses; but the justice of thy discourse res
tores conﬁdence to my soul. Pardon my ignorance ;
alas ! if man is blind, shall his misfortune be also his
crime? I may have mistaken the voice of reason; but
never, knowing it, have I rejected its authority. Ah !
if thou readest in my heart, thou knowest that it seeks
it with enthusiasm. Is it not in pursuit of truth that
thou seest me in these devious places? Alas ! I have
travelled over the earth, I have visited ﬁelds and
cities ; and seeing every where misery and desola
tion, a sense of the evils which oppress my fellow
men have deeply aﬁiicted my soul. I have said with
a sigh; is man then born but for sorrow and anguish E’
my mind has brooded over his miseries, and panted
; .after their’ remedy. I will separate, said I, from the
corruption of society’; 1 will retire far from places,
where the mind is depraved by satiety, and from the
I will go into
which once inAsia gave' splendor to states, and glory
CHAPTER IV. 17
'8
to nations ; I will ask of the ashes of legislators, by
what wcret causes do emﬂireo rise and fall; from v
what sources 8/wing the jirosjierily and vniqfortunee Qf
nations ,' on what jZrinciji{ea can the jmace of society,
and the /NZ]!/Zi71€88 of man be established?" I ceased,
and with submissive look awaited the answer of the
Genius. Peace and happiness, said he, attend him
' who practises justice ! Young man ! since thy heart
with sincerity seeketh truth ; since thy eyes can still
recognize her through the mist of .prejudice, thy
prayer shall not be vain : I will unfold to thy view
that truth thou invokest ; 1 will teach thy reason that
wisdom. tI5u seekest ; I will reveal to thee the wis
dom of the tombs and the science of ages : then ap.
proaching,antl layinghis hand on my head; rise,mor
tal, said he, and extricate thy senses from the dust
in which thou movest. Suddenly a celestial ﬂame
seemed to dissolve the bands which hold us to the
‘ earth; and like a light vapour, borne up on the wings
of the Genius, I felt myself waited to the regions
above. Thence, from the aerial heights, looking
down on the earth, I perceived a scene altogether
new. Under my feet, ﬂoating in the void, a globe
like that of the moon, but lesslarge and less lumin..
ous, presented to rre one of its phases"’; and that phase} ’
had the aspect of a disk dappikl with large spots,
some white and nebulous, others brown,’ green or
grey; and while I strained my sight to distinguish
what were these spots—Man, said the Genius, who
seekest truth, knowesit thou that object E O Genius,
answered 1, if Idid not see the moon in another
quarter of the heavens, l shoultI have supposed that
.to be her globe; it has that appearance of that planet,
" See plate 1, representing: halfthe terrestrial globe.
C @
*2‘
.‘?.
1
p
l8 CHAPTER IV.
seen through the telescope during the obscuration of
an eclipse : I should take the different spots for seas
and continents.
They are seas and continents, said he, and those of
the very hemisphere which you inhabit.
What I said I, is that the earth, the habitation of
man ?
Yes, replied he : that brown space which occupies
' irregulary a great portion of the disk, and envelops it
almost on every side, is what you callthe greatocean,
which advancing from the south pole towards the equa
tor, forms ﬁrst the great gulph of India and Africa,
then extends eastward across the Malay islands to the
conﬁnes of Tartary, while towards the west it encir_
cles the continents of Africa and of Europe, even to
the north of Asia. '
That square peninsula under our feet is the arid
country of the Arabs; the great continent on its left,
almost as naked in its interior, with a little verdure
only towards its borders, is the parched soil inhabi
ted by the black-m.en* ; to the north, beyond a sea;
long, narrow, and i'rregular,1' are the countries of
Europe, rich in meadows and cultivated ﬁelds: on
its right, from the Caspian Sea, extend the snowy
and naked plains of Tartary ; .returning again this
way, that white space is the vast and barre:1 desert
of Cobi, which separates China from the rest of the
world. You see that empire in the furrowed plain
Which obliquely rounds ‘self oil' from our sight.
' Africa. {The Mediterranean.
;»
CHAPTER IV.9 19
On yonder coasts, those ragged tongues of land and
scattered points are the peninsulas and islands ofthe
1\ialayes, the wretched possessors of the spices and
perfumes ; that triangle which advances so far into
the sea, is the too famous peninsula of India*; you
see the winding course of the Ganges, the Lgugh
mountains of Tibet, the lovely valley of Cachemere,
(12)? the briny deserts of Persia, the banks ofthe
Euphrates and Tygris, the deep bed of the Jordan
(4), and the canals of the solitary Nile. O I Genius,
said I, interrupting him, the sight of a mortal reach
es not to objects at such a distance. He touched my '
eyes; and immediately they became piercing as those
of an eagle; nevertheless the rivers still appeared
like waving lines, the mountains winding furrows,
and the cities little compartments, like the che
quers of a chess-board.
And the Genius proceeding to enumerate andpoint
out the objects to me; those piles,said he, whichyou
see in that narrow valley, watered by the Nile, are the
remains of opulent cities, the pride of the ancient
kingdom ofEthiopia1P Behold the wrecks of her
" Ofwhat real good has been thecommeree of India to the
mass ofthe people? On the contrary, how great the evil oc
casioned by the superstition ofthis country having been ad
ded to the general superstition ?
1' These numbers refer to those on ate 1'.
1 In the new Encyclopedia. 3d vol. Antiq_uitiesﬂs publish
ed a memoir respecting the chronology of the twel'ves ages
anterior to the passing of X _ Mute Gree.ee,.in\wh~ich. I eon
ceive myself to have pro_e “flipper Egypt>fbr1pe_.rl J:.Qn'|
posed adistinctkingdom. to the Hebrews by.'
of Kw», and to which the "pellation— of Ethiopia \vAt._r¥§pe
. 1 A ' _. ._
-fa=. ' I
20 CHAPTER IV.
metropolis, of Thebes with her hundred palaces‘;
the parent of cities, and monument of the caprice of
cially given. 'I hiskingdom preserved its independenceto the
time of Psammeticus, at which period, bring united to the
Lower Egypt, it lost its name of Ethiopia, which the.nceforth
was bestowed upon tlr nations of Nubia, and upon all the
tribes of Blacks, includmg Thebes, their mother country.
' The idea ofacity with a hundred gates, in the common
acceptation of the word, is so absurd, that I am astomshed
the equivoque has not before been felt.
It has ever been the custom of the East to call palaces and
houses of the great by the name of gates, because the ]')l"lllCl'
pal luxury of these buildings consists in the singular gate
leading from the street into the court,at the furthest extremity
of’wl1ich the palace is situated. It is under the \ei'lbule of
this gate that conversation is held with passengers, and 3
sort of audience and hospitality given All this was doubt
less known to Homer ; but poets make no commentaries, and
readers love the marvellous.
This city of Thebes. now Lougsor, reduced to the con
dition of a miserable village, has left astonishing monuments
ofits magniﬁcence. Particulars of this may be seen in the
plates of Norden, in Pocock, and in the recent travels of
Bruce. These hwnuments give credibility to all that Homer
has related ofits splendour, and lead us to infer its political
PO\VrI' and external commerce.
Its geographical position was favourable to this two'fold
object. For, on one side, the valley of the Nile, singularly
fertile, must have early occasioned a numerous population ;
and, on the other, the Red Sea giving communication with
Arabia and India, and the Nile with Abyssinia and the Me
diterranean. Thebes was thus naturally allied to the richest
conptries on the globe ; an alliance that procured it an ac
tivity so much the greater, as Lower Egypt, at ﬁrst a swamp,
was nearly, ifnot totally, uninhabited. But when at length
this country had been drained by_ he canals and dikes which
Sesostris constructed, population’ as introduced there, and
wars arose which proved fatal to as power ofThebes. Com
e =
CHAPTER IV.. 21
destiny. There a people, now forgotten, discovered,
while others were yet barbarians, the elements of the
merce then took another route, and descended to the point of
the Red Sea, to the canals of Sesostris (see Strabo), and
wealth and activity were transferred to Memphis. This is
manifestly What Diodorus means, when he tells us, Lib. I.
sect. 2. that as soon as Memphis was estalilislied and made a
wholesome and delicious ahode, kings abandoned Thebes to
ﬁx themselves there. Thus Thebes contmued to decline, and
Memphis to ﬂourish till the time ofAlexander, who,building
Alexandria on the border of the sea. caused Memphis to fall
in its turn , so that prosperity and pow:.r seem to have de
. scended historically step by step along the Niie; whence it
results, botl'rphysic,dly and mstorically, that the existence of
Thebes Was prior to that ofthe other cities. The testimony
ofwriters is very positive in this respect : “ The Thebans,”
says Diodorus, " consider themselves as the most ancient
people of the earth, and assert, that with them originated
philosophy and the science ofthe star's. Their situation, it
is true, is mﬁnitely fmourable to astronomical observation,
and they have a more accurate division of months and of the
year than other nations,” etc.
What DlO(l0l'llS Says of the Thebans, every author, and
himself elsewhere, repeat of the Ethiopians, which tends
more ﬁrmiy to establish the identity of place of which [have
spoken. “ The Ethiopians conceived themselves,” says he,
Lib. Ill. “ to be of greater antiquity than any other nation :
and it is probable that, born under the sun's path, its warmth
may have ripen¢d them earlierthan other men. Thry suppose
themselves also to be the in ' Qhtors ofdivine worship, of fes
tivals, of solemn assemblie 1 0? sacriﬁces, and every other
religious practice They afﬁrm that the ﬁgyptians are one of
their colomes, and that the Delta, Winch was formerly sea,
became land by the cong;\im“..~‘;tmn of the earth of the high
er cmmtry, wh‘ch was w:1SheLldOWH by the Nile. They have,
like the Egyptians, two species of ietters, hieroglygihics and
the alphabet; but among the Egyptians the ﬁggt was known
only to the priests, and by them transmitted itomfather to
e 2 .- '“\'l
52.2 CHAPTER IV.
arts and sciences; a race of men now rejected from
society for their sable skin andfrissled /lair, founded
on the study of the laws of nature, those civil and
religious systems which still govern the universes
son, whereas both species are common among the Ethiw
pians "
" The Ethiopians,” says Lucian, page 985, “ were the ﬁrst
who invented the science of the stars, and ga_e names to the
planets, not at random and without meaning, but descriptive
ofthe qualities which they conceived them to possess ; and
it was from them that this art passed, still in an imperfect
state, to the Egyptians "
It would be easy to multiply citations upon this subject g
from all which it follows, that we have the strongest reason
to believe that the country neighbouring to the tropic was
the cradle of the sciences, and of consequence that the ﬁrst
learned nation was a nation of Blacks; for it is incontro‘
Vertible that by the term Ethiopians, the ancients meant to
represent a people ofblack complexion, thick lips, and wooly
hair. I am therefore inclmed to believe, that the inhabitants
of Lower Egypt were originally a foreign colony imported:
from Syria and Arabia. a medley ofd.ifferent tribes of Sava
ges. originally shepherds and ﬁshermen, who by degrees
formed themselvq into a nation, and who, by nature and d6‘
scent, were enemies of the Thebans, by whom they were no
doubt despised and treated as barbarians.
I have suggested the same ideas in my travels into Syria,
tbunded upon the black complexion of the Sphinx. I have
since ascertamed that the antique images of Thebais have
the same characteristic, and Mr. Bruce has offered a multi
tude of 4l'l'r1lQL1'0l1S facts ; but this traveller, ofwhom lheaﬂl
some mention at Cairo, has so interwoven these facts with
certain systematic opinions, that we should have recourse to
his narratives with caution.
It is singular that Africa, situated so near us, should be the
country on earth wh‘ch is the least known. The English are
at this moment makiwg attempts, the success ofwhich ought
to excite our admiration:
.ii;
CHAPTER IV. 26'
Lowerdown those dusky points are the pyramids (l)
whose masses have astonished you. Beyond that, the
coasts, hemmed in between the sea and a narrow
ridge of mountains, was the habitation of the Phoeni
cians ; these were the powerful cities of Tyre, of
Sidon, of Ascalon, of Gaza, (2) and of Berytus. That
thread of water without an issue, (4) is the river Jor
dan ; and those naked rocks were once the theatre of
events resounded through the world. Behold that
desert of Hored, and that Mount Sinai ;_ (5) where, by
means beyond vulgar reach, a genius, profound and
bold established institutions. which haveweighed on
the whole human race. On .that dry shore which bor
ders it, you perceive no longer any trace of splendor ;
yet there was an emporium of riches. There were
those famous Ports of Idumea,* whence the ﬂeets of
' Ailah (Eloth) and Atsiom'Gaber {Hesion'Geber). The
name of the ﬁrst of these towns still subsists in its ruins, at
the point of the gulph of the Red Sea, and in the route
WhlOll the pilgrims take to Mecca Hesion has at present no
knee, any more than Quolzoum and Paran : it was, however,
the harbour for the ﬂeets of Solomon The vessels of this
Prmce. conducted by the Tyrians, sailed along the coast of
Arabia to Ophir, in the Persian gulph, thus oprnln_g a com.
munication with the merchants of India and Ceylon. That
this navigation was entirely of Tyrianmvention, appears both
from the pilots and ship'builders employed by the Jews, and
the names that were gi_en 10 the trading islands, viz. Tyrua
and Aradus,now Barham The voyage Was performed in two
diﬁ'erem modes, either in canoes ofoser and rushes_ cove: ed
on the outside with skins done over with pitch : these ves
sels were unable to quit the Red Sea, or so much as to leave
the shore? The second mode of carrying on the Made was by
means of vessels with decks of the size of our river boats,
Which were able to pass ll]: S.\l't'lgl'l[. and to wrathlr the dan
gers ofthe ocean: but for tlus purpose it was necessary to
24 CHAPTER IV.
Phoeniciaand Judea, coasting the Arabian peninsula,
went into the Persian galph, to seek there the pearls
of Hevila, the gold of Saba and of Ophir. Yes, there
bring the wood from Mount Libanus and Cilieia, where it is
very ﬁne and in great abundance. This wood was ﬁrst con
Veyed in ﬂoats from Tarsus to Phcnicia, for which reason
the vessels were called ships of Tarsus ; from whence it has
been ridiculously inferred that they went round the promon
tory of Africa as ta: as Tortosa in Spain. From Phomicia it
was transported on the backs of camels to theRed Sea, which
practice still continues, becausethe shores of this sea are ah
solutely unprovided with wood even for fuel. These vessels
spent a complete year in their voyages, that is, sailed one
year, Sojourned another, and did not return till the third.
This tediousness was owing, ﬁrst to their cruizing from port
to port. as they do at present ; secondly. to their being de
tained by the monsoon currents ; and thir_dly, because. ac
cording to the calculations of Plmy and Sirabo, it was the
ordinary practice among the ancients to spend three years in
a voyage of twelve hundred leagues. Such a commerce must >
have been very expensive, particularly as they_ were obliged
to carry with them their provisions and even fresh water.-‘
For this reason Solomon made himselfmaster of Palmyra,
which was at that time inhabited, and wasalreaaly the maga
zine and high road of merchants by the way oi'Euphrates.
This conquest brought Solomon much nearer to the country
of gold and pearls. This alternative ofa route either by the
Red Sea or by the river Euphrates, was to the ancients what
in later times has been the alternative in a voyage to the In.
dies, either by crossmg the Isthmus ofSuez. or doubling the
Cape of Good Hope. It appears that till the time of Moses
this trade was C3.l'l'i’.(1 on across the desert of Syna and. The
bais ; that afterwards it fell into the hands of the Phoenicians,
who ﬁxed its site upon the Red Sea. and that it was mutual
jealousy that induced the kmgs of Nmeveh and Babylon to
undertake the destruction of Tyre and Jerusalem. I insist
the more upon these facts because I have never aeen any
thing reasonable upon the subject, 5
cl
CHAPTER IV. 25 (‘
on that coast of Oman and of Bahrain was the seat of
that commerce of luxuries, which, by its movements
and revolutions, ﬁxed the destinies ofancient nations;
thither came the spices and precious stonesofCeylon,
the shawls of_Cassimire, the diamonds of Golconda,
the amber of Maldivia, the musk of Thibet, the aloes
of Cochin, the apes and peacocks of the continent of
India, the incense ofH.adramaut, the myrrh,the silver,
the gold dust and ivory of Africa ; thence passing,
sometimes by the Rifd Sea on the vessels of Egypt
and Syria, these luxuries nourished successively the
wealth of Thebes, of Sidon, of Memphis, and of Jeru
salem ; sometimes, ascending the Tygris and Eu
phrates, they excited the activity of the Assyrians,
Medes, Chaldeans, and Persians ; and that wealth,
according to the use or abuse of it, raised or reversed
by turns their domination. Hence sprung the magni
ﬁcence of Persepolis, whose columns you (8) still
perceive ; of Ecbatana, (9) whose seven-fold wall is
destroyed ; of Babylon,ls (10) no longer but heaps
of earth ; of Niniveh, (l 1) of which scarce the name
remains ; of Thapsacus, of Anatho, of Gerra, and the
desoluted Palmyra. Oh names for ever glorious 1
ﬁelds of renown ! countries of never dying memory !
what sublime lessons does. your aspect offer !. what
profound truths are written on the surface of your
soil! remembrances of times past, return into my
' It appears that Babylon occupied on the Eastern bank of
the Euphrates a space of ground six leagues in length.
Throughout this space bricks are found, by means of which,
daily additions are made to the town of Hsllé Upon many
ofthese are characters written with a nail smilar 10 those of _
Persepolis. Iam indebted for these facts to M 'de Beau
champ, gratﬂ vicar of Babylon, a traveller_ equally distin
guished for hiﬂtnowledge ofastronomy and for his veracity.
Ii _ \ ‘
’
26 CHAPTER IV.
/'
mind! places, witnesses of the life of man in so many
different ages, retrace for me the revolutions of his
fortunes! say, what were their springs and secret
causes ! say, from what sources he derived success
and disgrace I unveil to himself the causes of his
evils; correct him by the spectacle of his errors!
teach him the wisdom which belongeth to him, and
let the experience of past generations become a pic
ture ofinstruction, and a germ of happiness to those
ofpresent ahul future times.
CHAPTER V.
QONDITION OF MAN IN THE UNIVERSE.
.A. FTER some moments of silence, the-Genius re’
sumedin these words :
I have told thee, friend of truth! man vainly as
cribeshis misfortunes to Obscure andimaginary agents;
in vain he seeks for his evils mysterious and remote
Causes : in the general order of the universe, without
doubt his condition is subject to inconveniencies ;
without doubt his existence is ruled by suﬂerior pow-; "
ers ; but those powers are neither the decrees of a
blind fatality, nor the caprices of whimsical and fan
tastic beings. Like the world, of which he is part,man
is governed by natural laws, regular in their course, .
uniform in their effects, immutable in their essence ;
and those laws, the common source o_/’good and evil,
are not written among the stars, nor hidden in codes
of mystery; inherent in the nature of terrestrial be
ings, interwoven with their existence, at all times and
in all places they are present to man ; they act upon
his senses, they warn his understanding, and give to
every action its reward or punishment. Let man then
know these laws ! let him comprehend the nature of
the beings which surround him, and also his own na
ture, and he will know the regulators of his destiny ;
he willknow the causes of his evils, and what may :
be their cure.
28 CHAPTER Vi
" Whenthe hiddenj101001-,which animatea the universe,
formed the globe which man inhabits, he implanted
in the beings composing it, essential ﬂrojierties which
became the law of their individual motion, the bond
of their reciprocal relations, the cause of the har
mony of the Whole; he thereby established a regular
order of causes and eﬂ'eLcts, of principles and conse
quences, which, under an aﬁjiearance ofchancm go
verns the universe, and maintains the equilibrium of
the world 'l"h\1s, he gave to ﬁre motion and activity ;
to air elasticity ; weight and density to matter _ he
made air lighter than water, metal heavier than
earth ; wood less cohesive than steel; he decreed
y
'a
09*_
ﬂame to ascend, stones to fall. plants to vegetute.; to}
man, ml..aning' to 0j1jrose him to the artirm of so many
different beings, and still to fH.€8t?1'"l18 hisfrail life, he
gave the 'faculty of sensation. By this faculty all ac
tion hurtful to his existence gives him a feeling of
jwin and evil : and all which is favourable, of/lleasurc
and haﬁjlirless. By these sensations, man, sometimes
averted from that which wounds his senses, some
times allured towards that which sooths them, has
been obliged to cherish (znd jireaerve his own life ,
Y thus, self-la-vc, the desire ofhal1/iinrss, av/.rsion to
jlain, become the cssmtlal and jirimordial laws im-'
jm_ed on man by nature herself; the laws which the
creating power, whatever it be, has established for
his government; and which laws, like those of motion
in the /lh_l;m'cal world, are tltie simple and fruitful prin
ciple of whatever ha/1ltens in the moral 'wor'la'.
Such then is the condition of man: on one side, ex
posed to the action of the elements which surround
him, he is subject to many inevitable evils; and, if
in this_ decree nature has beenfsevere, on the other
I
CHAPTER V. '29
hand, just and even indulgent, she has not only tem
pered the evils with equivalent good, she has even
enabled him to extend the good and alleviate the
evil ; she seems to say, “ Feeble work of my hands,
I owe thee nothing, and I give thee life; the world
wherein I placed thee was not made for thee, yet I
give thee to use it ; you will ﬁnd it mixed ofgood and
evil ; it is for you to distinguish them ; for you to
guide your footsteps in a path where are thorns as
well as roses. Be the arbiter of your own lot ; 1 put
your destiny into your own hands!” Yes, man is made
the artisan of his own destiny ; himself hath been the
cause ofthe successes or reverses ofhis own fortune ;
and if, on areview of all the pains with which he has
tormented his own life, he ﬁnds reason to weep over
his own weakness or imprudence, yet, considering
the beginnings from which he sat out, and the height
attained, perhaps he has more reason to presume on
his strength, and to pride himselfon his genius.
5:135;
80
CHAPTER "I.
run PRIMITIVE srarn or MANJ
A T ﬁrst,- formed naked in body and in mind, man
found himself thrown, as it were by chance, on a rough
and savage land: an orphan, abandoned by the un
known power which had produced him, he saw not
by his side beings dcacendedfrom heaven to warn him .
of‘those wants which arise only from his senses, nor
to instruct _liH!1 in those duties, which spring only
from his taunts'. Like to other animals, without ex
perience of the past, without foresight of the future, .
he wandered in the bosom of the forest, guided only
and governed by the affections of his nature. By the
ﬂair: of hunger, he was led to seek food, and provided
for his subsistence ; by the iaiclememy of the air, he
was urged to cover his body, and he made him
clothes ; by the attraction ofa j10'we1;ful jlleasure, he
approached a being like himself and he perpetuated
his kind....
Thus the impressions which he received from every
object, awakening his faculties, developed by degrees
his understanding, and began to instruct his profound
ignorance: his wants excited industryﬂangers formed
his courage ; he iearnt to distinguish the useful from
the noxious plants, to combat the elements, to seize
his prey, to defend his life ; and he thus alleviated its
miseries.
CHAPTER VI. 31
Thus, sel_/llo*ue,a'version tojiain, tlw desire ofhaj1j113
ness, were the simple and powerful excitements
which drew man from the sa'vag.c and barbarous
condition, in which nature had placed him. And now,
when his life is replete with enjoyments, when he
may count every day by thecomforts it brings, he
may applaud himself and say, “_I£ who have pro
‘ duced the good things which surround me; it is I
who am the artist ofmy own happiness ; -a safe dwel
ling, convenient clothing, nourishment abundant and
wholesome, smiling ﬁelds', fertile hills, populous em
pires, all is my work ; without me this earth, given
up to disorder, would have been but a ﬁlthy fen, It
wild wood,a dreary desert.” Yes, creative man, re
ceive Ihy homage ! thou hast measured the span of
the heavens, calculated the volume of the stars, ar
rested the lightning in its clouds, subdued seas and
| storms, subjected all the elements. Ah ! how are so
manysublime energies allied to so many errors ',
_v‘
)1
Ii
'“I;
'05.
CHAPTER VII;
rnmcrruzs or socuzrrf
U ANDERING in the woods, and on the bot
ders of rivers, in pursuit of game and ﬁsh, the ﬁrst
men, environed with dangers, assaulted by enemies,
tormented by hunger, by reptiles, by ravenous beasts,
felt their own individual -weajmcu ,- and, urged by a
common need.q/'safety, anda recijirocal sentiment of
like evils, they united their resources and their
strength ; and when one incurred a danger, many aid
ed and_succoured him ; when one wanted subsist
ence, another shared his prey wilxh him Thus men
associated to secure their existence, to augment their
‘ﬂowers, to ﬂrotect their enjaymenta ,' and self-love
became thejxrinci/ile qfsociety.
Instructed afterwards by the experience of vari
ous and repeated accidents, by the fatigues of a
wandering life, by the distress of frequent scarcity,
men reasoned with themselves, and said : “ \Vhy
. consume our daysixi’ seeking scattered fruits from
aparsimonious soil ? why exhaust ourselves in pur
suing prey which eludes us in the woods or wa
ters ? why not collect under our hands the animals
which subsist us ? why not employ our care in mul
tiplying and preserving them ? We will feed on their
.increase, be clothed in their skins, and live exempt
from the htigues of the day and cares for to-morrowi’
~ 1
.‘;
"ing scrupulously the iaw of his being he had faith
CHAPTER VII. 33
And men. aiding one another, seized the ‘ nimble
goat. the timid sheep; they can ght the patient came};
the ﬁerce bull, the idipetuous horse ; and, applaudin"g
‘ﬁleir own industry, they sat down in the joy of their
souls, and began to. taste repose and comfort : and
leéf-la'vc, the _/ninciﬂle of all reasoning, became me /\
incitement to every art and every enjoyment. '
When, therefore, men could pass long days'-’in
leisure, and in communication. of their thoughts,
they began to 'contemplate the earth, the heavens,
and their own existence as objects.of curiosity and
reﬂection; they remarked thecourse of the'§easons,
the action.oi the elements, the properties of fruit '
and plants; and: applied their thoughts to the multi
plication of their enjoyments. And in some coun
-tries, having observed that certain seeds contained a
wholesome nourishment in a small volume,.com
lenient for transportation. and keeping, they imi
iated the process of nature; they conﬁded to the
sarth rice, barley, and corn, which multiplied to the
lhllmeasure of their hope ; and having fotmdthe
Illeans of obtaining in a small /‘lace, and without
removal, jilcnti/i'4l subsistence and alormjbr a long
di1nr,they established themselves in ﬁxed habitations;
they built houses, villagesmnd towns 3 formed socie
ities and nations; and self.l0v¢ produced.all the devel
.Qpements of genius and of power.
Thus, by the aid of his .own faculties alone, man
has been able to raise himself to the astonishing
height of his present fortune ; too happy, if, observ-~ M
il“.
fully fulﬁtied its only and true object! But, bye
. ‘n 2 '
36 .CHAPTER VII.I.
wandered in a labyrinth of errors and calamities"...
The cuju'duy ofman, andhis ignorance... these are the
evil geniuses which have wasted the earth ! these are
the decrees of fate which have overthrown empires 1
.these are the celestial anathemas which have smitten
these walls once so glorious, and converted the splen
dor of a populous city into a solitude of mourning and
bf ruins I... But as in the bosom of man have sprung
all the evils which have aﬂiicted his life, there all!!!
he is to seek and to ﬁmltbeir remedies,
,l
€IIAP'I’ER ‘IX.
ORIGIN’ 0!' GOVERNMENT AND LAwS.
.IN fact, it soon happened that men, fatigued with
the evils they reciprocally inﬂicted, began to sigh for
peace ; and reﬂecting on their misfortunes and the
causes of them, they said : “ we are mutually injur
ing each other by our passions ; and, aiming to grasp
every thing, we hold nothing. “That one seizes to
day, another takes to-mdt.row, and our cupidity re
acts upon ourselves. Let us establish judges, who
shall arbitrate our rights, and settle our differences.
'When the strong shall rise against the weak, the
judge shall restrain him, and dispose of our force to
suppress violence ; and the life and property of each
shall be under the guarantee and protection of all;
and all shall enjoy the good things of nature."
Conventions .were thus formed in society, some
times €.Z.ﬂr688, sometimes tacit, which became the
rule for the action of individuals, the nlcaeure of their
rights, the law of their reciprocal relations ; and per
sons were appointed to superintend their observance.
To them the people conﬁded' the balance to weigh
rights, and the sword to punish transgressions.
Thus was established among individuals_ ii.happy
equitibﬁum of force and action, which c0l)Slil\ll€(l me
, common security. The name of equity and ofjustice
was recognized and revered over the earth; every
one, assured of enjoying in peace the fruits of his toil,
pursued with energy.the objects of his attention ;
and industry, excited and maintained by the reality or
as CHAPTER IX.
the hope ofenioyment, developed all the riir¥v:s of art.
and of na'ture. The ﬁeids were covered with harvests,
the vallics with ﬂocks', the hills with fruits, the sea
with vessels, and man became happy ayd powerful on
the earth. Thus did his own wisdom repair the disor
der which his imprudence had occasioned ; and that
wisdom was only the effect of his own organization,
He respected the enjoyments of others, in order to
secure his own ; and cuﬂidity found its corrective in
U
the e1l1ightened love ofseljl
_ Thus the love ofself, the moving principle of every"
.individual, becomes the necessary foundation of every
association ; and on the observance of that law ofour
nature has depended the fate of nations. Have the
factl"tl'o_us and conventional laws tended to their object,
and accomplished their'aim ? Every one, urged by a
‘ powerful instinct, has displayed all the faculties of
_.his being ; and the sum of individual felicities has
constituted the generalﬁlicity. Have these laws, on
_the contrary, restrained the effort of man towards his
own happiness ? his heart, deprived of its exciting
principle,'has languished_ in inactivity. And the of
jireeaion ofindividualshas becomethejiabtic weakness;
As aeif-1ove,'impetuou's and improvident, is ever
urging man against his.equal, and consequently tends
to dissolve society, the object of the laws and the vir
tue oftheir administratorghave been to attemjler the
conﬂict of indi'vidual_cujtiiiities, to maintain an equili
brium of powers, to secure every one his liappinessy
in order that in the shock of society against society.,
all the members may have a common interest in the
preservation and defence ‘ ublic weal.
' ' I
The internal spiendor and Yosprrity of empires
then have. had for their etﬁcient cause the equity .of
CHAPTER IX; 39
their laws and government; and their respective ex‘
ternal powers have been in proportion to the ’number
of persons interested, and their degree of interest in
the public weal. '
On the other hand, the multiplication of men, by
complicating their relations, having rendered the
precise limitation of their rights difﬁcult, the perpe
tual action of the passions having produced incidents
not foreseen ; their conventions having been 'vicious,
inadequate or nugatory ; in ﬁne, the authors of the
laws having sometimes mistaken, sometimes dis
guised their objects ; and their ministers, instead of
straining the cupidity of others, giving themselves
up to their own ; all these causes have introduced
disorder and trouble into societies ; and the vicious- .
ness of the laws and the injustice of governments,
ﬂowing from cujiidity and ignorance, have become
the causes of the misfortunes of nations, and the sub-_
version of states.
CHAPTER' X.
onxnaan causes or"rms rnosrs..nn'r or
ANCIENT s'rA'rEs.
SUCH, oh man, who seekest wisdom, such have"~
been the causes of revolution in the ancient statesof.
which thou contemplatest the ruins ! To whatever
spot I direct my view, to whatever time my thought,
the same principles ofgrowth or destruction, ofrise or '’
fall, present themselves to my mind. If a_people be
powerful, or an empire prosperous, it is because their
laws of convention conform to the laws of nature ,
the government there procures for its citizens afree
use of their faculties, equal securityfor their ﬂersone
and jiro/lerzy. If, on the contrary, an empire goes to
ruin, or dissolves, it is because its laws have been vi
cious, or imperfect, or trodden under foot by a cor
rupt government. If the laws and government, at;
ﬁrst wise and just, become afterwards depraved, it is
\because the alternation ofgood and evil is inherent to
the heart of man, to a change in his propensities, to
his progress in knowledge, to a combination of cir
cumstances and events ; as is proved by_;the history
ofthe species '
In the infancy of nations, when men yet lived in
the forest, subject to the same wants, endowed with
the same faculties, all were nearly equal In strength
and that equality was a circumstance highly advanta
CHAPTER X.. 41.
germs in the composition of society : as every indi
vidual thus feeling himself suﬂiciently independent of
every other, no one was the slave, none thought of
being the master, of another. Man, then a novice,
kn’eW neither servitude nor tyranny ; furnished with )
resources sufﬁcient for his existence, he thought not
of borrowing from others ; owing nothing, requiring
nothing, be judged the rights of others by his own,
andformed ideas of justice suﬁiciently exact: igno
rant, moreover, in the art of enjoyments, unable to
produce more than his necessaries, possessing no-
thing superﬂuous, cupidity remained asleep : or if it
ventured to awake, man, attacked in his real wants,
resisted it with. energy, and the foresight of such re
sistence preserved a happy balance. F
‘Thus original equality, in default of comjtact, main
tainedfreedom of person, security of property, good
manners, and order. Every onelaboured by himself
and for himself; and the heart ofman occujlied, wan
dered not to cu!jiable (lesires. He had few enjoyments,
but his wants were satisﬁed ; and as indulgent nature i
had made them less than his resources, the labour of
his hands soon produced abundance, abundance po
pulation ; the arts unfolded, culture extended, and
the earth, covered with numerous inhabitants, was di
' vided_ into different dominions.
.The relations of man being complicated, the inter
nal order of societies became more diﬁicult to main
tain; time and industry having generated riches, cu.
pidity became more active ; and because equality,
practicable among individuals, could not subsist
among families, the natural equilibrium was broken :
it became necessary to supply it by a ﬁuztitious cquili-_
E
42 ' CHAPTER X.
brium ; to set up chiefs,'to establish laws ; and in the
primitive inexperience, it necessarily happened that
these laws, occasioned by cupidity, assumed its cha
racter. But different circumstances concurred to
correct the disorder, and oblige governments to be
just.
States, in fact, being weak at ﬁrst, and having
foreign enemies to fear, it became important to the
chiefs, not to oppress their subjects ; for, by lessen
ing the interest ofthe citizens in their government,
they would have lessened their means of resistance ,
they would have facilitated foreign invasion; and,
for the sake of superﬁuities, have compromitted their
_ very existence.
In the interior, the ﬁrmness of the people repelled
tyranny ; men had contracted too long habits of inde
pendence; they had too few wants, and too much con
sciousness of their own strength.
.States being of a moderate size, it was difﬁcult to
divide their citizenssoas to make use of some for the
oppression of others. Their communications were
too easy, their interest too clear and simple : besides,
every one being a proprietor and cultivator, no one
.\_ needed to sell himself, and the despot could ﬁnd no
gnercenames.
If then dissentions arose, they were between fami
ly and family, faction and faction ; and they interested
a great number. The troubles,indeed, were warmer;
but fears from abroad paciﬁed discord at home. ‘ Ifthe
3
CHAPTER X. 4.5
.oppression of a party prevailed,the earth being still
unoccupied, and man, still in a state of simplicity, ﬁnd
ing every where the same advantages, the oppressed
party emigrated, and carried elsewhere their inde
pendence. '
The ancient states then enjoyed within themselves
numerous means of prosperity and power. Every
one ﬁnding his own well being in the constitution of
his country, took a lively interest inits preservation ;
if a stranger attacked it, having to defend his own
ﬁeld, his own house, he carried into combat all the
passion of a personal quarrel; and, devoted to his
own cause, he was devoted to his country.
_
As every action useful to the public attracted its
esteem and gratitude, every one became eager to be
useful ; and ea.ff-love multiplied talents and civic vir
H168.
Every citizen contributing equally by his goods
and his person, armies and funds were inexhaustible,
and nations displayed fo 'midable masses of power,
The earth being free, and its possession secure
and easy, every one was a proprietor; and the (livi
sion ofproperty preserved morals, andrendered luxu
ry impossible.
Every one cultivating for himself} culture was
more active, produce more abundant ; and individual
riches became public wealth.
The abundance of produce rendering subsistence
44 CHAPTER X.
easy, population was rapid and numerous, and staths
attained quickly the term of their plenitude.
Productions increasing beyond consumption, the
necessity of commerce arose; and exchanges took
place between people and people ; which augmented
their activity and reciprocal advantages.
In ﬁne, certain countries, at certain times, unitin_é;
the advantages of good government with a position
on t_he route of the most active circulation, they be
came emporiums of ﬂourishing commerce and seats
'of powerful domination. And on the shores of the
.Nile and Mediterranean,oftheTygris and Euphrates,
the accumulated riches of India and of Europe rais
ed in successive splendor a hundred mother-cities.
The people, growing rich, applied their superﬂuity'
to works of common and public use ; and this was, in
every state, the epoque of those works, whose gran
deurastonishes the mind ; of those wells of Tyre, of
those dykes of the Euphrates, of those subterranean
conduits of Media,* of those fortresses of the desert,
.* See respecting these monuments in my Travels into Sy
ria,voi ii p. 2X4-. v
From the town or village of Samouat, the course ofthe
'Etiphrates is accompanied with a double bank, which dc
seends as far as its junction with the Tigris.and from thence
to the sea, being a length of about an hundred leagues
I''renoh measure. The height ofthese artiﬁcial banks is not
uniform, but increases as you advance from the sea ; it may
beestimated from twelve to ﬁfteen feet. But for them thei
inundation ofthe river would bury the country around, which
is ﬂat, to an extent of twenty or twenty'ﬁve leagues ; and
even notwithstanding these banks, there has been in modern
times an overﬂow which has covered the whole triangle form' >
ed by the junction of this river to the Tygris, being a space
CHAPTER X. 115
ofthose aqueducts of Palmyra, of those temples, of
those porticoes........ And such labours might be im
mense,with0ut oppressing the nations; because they
were the effect ofan equal and common contribution,
of the force of individuals, animated and free.
ofcountry of one hundred and thirty square leagues. By the
stagnation ofthese waters an epidemical disease of the most
fatal nature was occasioned. It follows from hence, 1. That
all the ﬂat country bordering upon those rivers was originally
a marsh ; 2 That this marsh could not have been inhabited _
n
previously to the construction ofthe banks in question ; _>.
That these banks could not have been the work but of a po
pulation prior as to date : the elevation of Babylon, there
fore, must have been posterior to that of Nineveh, as I think
I have chronologically demonstrated in the memoir above
cited. See Encyclopedia, vol. iii. of Antiquities.
The modern Aderbidjan, which was a part of Medea, the
mountains of Koulderstan, and those of Diarbekr, abound
with subterranean canals, by means of which the ancient in
habitants conveyed water to their parched soil, in order to
fertilize it. It was regarded as a meritorious act, and a re
ligious duty prescribed by Zoroaster, who, instead of preach
ing celibacy, mortiﬁeations, and other pretended virtues
of the monkish sort, repeats continually, in the passages that
are preserved respecting him in the Sad'der and the Zend.
avesta, “ That the action most pleasing to God is to plough
and cultivate the earth, to water it with running streams, to
multiply vegetation and living beings, to have numerous
ﬂocks, young and fruitful virginn, a multitude of children,
etc. etc.”
Among the aqueducts ofPalmyra it appears certjiin, that,
besides those which conducted water from the neighbouring
hills, there was one which brought it even from the moun
tains of Syria. It is to be traced a long way into the Desert, . .
1'
where it escapes our search by going under ground.
.E 2
I"
46. OHAPTER X. ' '
Thus ancient states prospered, because their so
cial institutions conformed to the true laws of nature ,
and because men enjoying liberty and safety for their
ﬁersons and their ﬂroﬂcrty, might display all the ex
tent of their faculties, all the energies of their self—
love.
CHAPTER XI.
GENERAL CAUSES OF THE REVOLUTIONS ANQ
RUIN OF ANCIENT STATES.
CUPIDITY had nevertheless excited among
men a constant and universal conﬂict, which inces
santly prompting individuals and societies to recipro
cal invasions, occasioned successive revolutions, and
returning agitations.
And ﬁrst, in the savage and barbarous state of the
' ﬁrst men, cupidity, audacious and ﬁerce, produced
rapine,violenco, murder; and retarded for a long
time the progress ofcivilization.
\Vhen afterwards societies began to be formed,
the eﬂ'ect of bad habits communicated to laws and
governments,corrnpted their institutions and objects,
and established arbitrary and factitious rights; Which
depraved the ideas of justice, and the morality of the
people.
Thus one man being stronger than another, their
.inequality, an accident of naturef’ was taken for he:
' Almost all the ancient philosophers and politicians have
laid it down as a principle that men are born unequal, that
nature has created some to be free, and others to be slaves.
Expressions ofthis kind are to be found in Aristotle, and even
Plato, called the divine, doubtless in the same sense as the
mythological rcveriel which be promulgated. With all the
48 CHAPTER XI.
law ; and the strong being able to take the life of the
weak, and yet sparing him, arrogated over his person
an abusive right of property ;and the sla'very Vindi
viduala prepared the slavery of nations.
’ ' Because the head of afamily could be absolute in
his house, he made his own affections and desires the
rule of his conduct : he gave or resumed his goods
'without equality, without justice ; and Iiaternal des
ﬁolism laid the foundation of despotism in govern
ment.*
In societies formed on such foundations, when
time and labour had developed riches, cupidity, res
people of antiquity, the Gauls, the Romans, the Athenians,
the right of the strongest was the right of nations; and from
the same principle are derived all the political disorders and
public national crimes that at present exist.
' Upon this single expression it would _be easy to write a
long and important chapter. We might prove in it, beyond
contradiction, that all the abuses of national governments
have sprung from those of domestic government ; from that
government called patriarchal, which superﬁcial minds have
' extolled without having analysed it. Numberless facts demon.
strate, that with every infant people, in every savage and bar
barous state, the father, the chief ofthe family, is a despot,
and a cruel and insolent despot. The wife is his slave, the
children his servants. This king sleeps or smokes his pipe,
while his wife and daughters perform all the drudgery ofthe
house, and even that oftillage and cultivation, as far as oc
cupations of this nature are practised in such societies ; and
no sooner have the boys acquired strength than they are al
lowed to beat the females and make them serve and wait up
on them as they do upon their fathers. Similar to this is the
state of our own uncivilized peasant_ In proportion as civili
zation spreads, the mannerspbeeoms more mild, and the cow
.1?
qt,
CHAPTER XI. 49
trained by the laws, became more artful, but not less
active. Under the mask of union and civil peace, it
fbmented in the bosom ofevery state an intestine war ;
in which the citizens, dividedinto contending corps
oforders, classes, families, unremittingly struggled
to appropriate to themselves, under the name of
-sujlrenle jl0’i'Ut.’1., the ability to plunder every thing,
.and render every thing subservient to the dictates of
their passions: and this spirit of encroachment, dis
.guised under all possible forms, but always the same
in its object and motives, has never ceased to to1'‘
ment the nations.
Sometimes, opposing itselfto all social compact,
or breaking that which already existed, it committed
the inhabitants of a country to the tumultuous shock
ofall their discords ; and states thus dissolved, and
reduced to the condition of anarcln,/, were tormented
by the passions ofall their members. .,
Sometimes a nation, jealous of its .liberty, having
appointed agents to administer its government, these
agents appropriated to themselves the powers of
dition of the women improves ; till, by a contrary excess,
they arrive at dominion, and then a nation becomes effemi
nate and corrupt. It is remarkable that parental authority is
great in proportion as the government is despotic. China In‘
dia, and Turkey, are striking examples of this. One would
suppose that tyrants gave themselves accomplices, and in
terested subaltern despots to maintain their authority. In “
opposition to this the Romans will be cited ; but it remains
to be proved that the Romans Were men truly free ; and their
quick passage from their republican despotism to their ab.
ject servility under the emperors, gives room at least for
considerable doubts_ as to that freedom.
-.
50 CHAPTER XI.
which they had only the guardianship: they employed
the public treasures in corrupting elections, in
attaching partisans, in dividing the people among
themselves. By these means, from being temporary
they became perpetual; from elective, hereditary;
and the state, agitated by the intrigues of the ambi
tions, by litrgesses from the rich and factious, by the
venality of the poor and idle, by the inﬂuence of ora
tors, by the boldness of the wicked, and the weakness
of the virtuous, was convulsed with all the incon
veniencies of democracy.
The chiefs ofsome countries, equal in strength, and'
mutually fearing each other, formed impious pacts,
nefarious associations ; and, apportioning among
themselves all power, rank, and honour, arrogated
privileges and immunities ; erected themselves into
separate orders and distinct classes; reduced the peo
ple to their controul ; and, under the ' name of aris
tocracy, the state was tormented by the passions of the
great and the rich.
" Sacred imji0stc1'.9, in other countries, tending by
other means to the same object, abused the credulity
of the ignorant. In the gloom oftheir temples, behind
the curtain of the altar, they made their gods. act and
speak ; gave forth oracles. war/ted miracles, ordered
sacri/ices, levieti oﬂ'e1'z"ngs, prescribed endowments;
and, under the names of t/1eocvracy and of religion, the
state became tormented by the passions ofthe priests.
Sometimes a nation, wearied out by the disorders
of their tyrants, to lessen the sources ofevils, submit
ted to a single master ;' but if it li'.r.i.'.etl his powers,
his sole aim was to enlarge them; it it left them inde- '
CHAPTER XI. 5 1
ﬁnite, be abused the trust conﬁded to him ; and, un
der the name of monarchy, the state was tormented
by the passions of kings and jlrincea.
Then the factions, availing themselves of the gene—
r-al discontent, ﬂattered the Iieoﬂle with the hope of
a better master ; dealt out gifts and promises, depos
ed the despot to take his place ; and their contests
for the succession, or its partition, tormented the
state with the disorders and devastations of civil war.
In ﬁne, among these rivals, one more adroit, or more
fortunate, gained the ascendency, and concentrated all
power within himself. By a strange phenomenon, a
single individual mastered millions of his equals,
against their will or without their consent ; and the
art of tyranny sprung also from cuﬂidity. In fact, ob
serving the spirit of cgotism which incessantly divides
inankind, the ambitious mah fomented it with dex
terity, 1'latteretl_thc vanity of one, excited the jealousy
of another, favoured the avarice of this, enﬂamed the
resentment of that, and irritated the passions of all ;
then, placing in opposition their interests and prejudi
ces, he sowed divisions and hatreds, promised to the
poor the spoils of the rich, to the rich the subjection
ofthe poor ; threatened one man by another, this class
by that ; and insulating all by distrust, created his
strength out of their weakness, and imposed the yoke
of oﬂinion, which they mutually riveted on each
other’s necks. \Vith the army he levied contribu
tions, and with contributions he disposed ofthe army :
dealing out wealth and oﬁice on these principles, he
enchained a whole people in indissoluble bonds, and
they languished under the slow consumption ofdn[la
Ham. :
52 CHAPTER XI.
Thus the same principle, varying its action under
every possible form, was for ever attenuating the
consistence ofstatesmnd an eternal circle of vicissi\
tudes ﬂowed from an eternal circle of passions.
And this spirit of egotism and usurpation produ
ced two effects equally operative and fatal : the one a
division and subdivision of societies into their small
est fractions, inducing a debility which facilitated
their dissolution ,' the other, a persevering tendency
to concentrate power in a single hand,* which, in
gulphing successively societies and states, was fatal
to their peace and social existence.
Thus, as in a state, a party absorbed the nation, a
family the party, and an individual the family, so a
movement of absorption took place between state and
state, and exhibited on the great scale, and in the
jlolitical order, all the particular evils of the civil or
der. Thus a state having subdued a state, held it in
subjection in the form of a province ; and two pro- '
vinces being swallowed together formed a kingdom ,
two kingdoms being united by conquest, ga_ve birth to
empires of gigantic size ; and in this conglomeration,
the internal strength of states, instead of increasing,
" It is remarkable that this has in all instances been the
constant progress of societies : beginning with a state of
anarchy ordemocracy, that is, with a great division ofpower,
they have passed to aristocracy, and from aristocracy to mo
narchy. Does it not hence follow that those who constitute
states under the democratic form, destine them to undergo
all the intervening troubles between that and . monarchy .:
and that the supreme administration by a single chief is the
most natural government, as well as that best calculated for
peace 2
CHAPTER XI. .5s
diminished ; and the condition ofthe people, instead
of ameliorating, became daily more painful and
wretched, for causes constantly derived from the na
ture of things . . .t
Because, in proportion as states increased in ex
tent, their administration becoming more difﬁcult
and complicated, greater energies of power were ne
cessary to move such masses; and there was no long
er any proportion between the duties of sovereigns
and their ability to perform their duties.
Because d espots, feeling their weakness, feared
whatever might develope the strength of nations,
and studied only how to enfeeble them '7
Because nations, divided by the prejudices of igno
rance and hatred, seconded the wickedness of their
governments ; and, availing themselves reciprocally
of subordinate agents, aggravated their mutual
slavery :
Because, the balance between states being destroy
ed, the strong more easily oppressed the weak :
p
Finally, because in proportion as states were con
centrated, the people, despoiled of their laws, oftheir
usage, and of the government suited to their charac
ters, lost that spirit of personal identiﬁcation with
their government, which had caused their energy. ‘
And despots, considering empires as their private
domains, and the people as their property, gave them:
I
54 CHAPTER XI.
I
selves up to depredations, and to all the licentiousness
of the most arbitrary authority.
- And all the strength and wealth of nations were di
verted to private expence and personal caprice ; and
kings, fatigued with gratiﬁcation, abandoned them
selves to all the extravagancies of factitious and de
praved taste)’ They must have gardens mounted on
arcades, rivers raised over mountains, fertile ﬁelds
converted into haunts for wild beasts ; lakes scooped
in dry lands, rocks erected in lakes, palaces built of
marble and porphyry, furniture ofgold and diamonds ;
millions of hands were employed in sterile labours,
and the luxury of princes, imitated by their parasites,
and transmitted from grade to grade to the lowest;
ranks, became a general source of corruption and im
poverishment.
And in the insatiable thirst of enjoyment, the ordi
nary revenues, no longer suﬁieing, were augmented ;
' ltis equally worthy remark, that the conduct and man
ners of princes and kings of every country and every age,
are found to be precisely the same at similar periods, whe
ther ofthe formation or dissolution ofempires. History every
where presents the same pictures of luxury and folly; of
parks, gardens, lakes, rocks, palaces, furniture, excess of
the table, wine, women, concluding with brutality.
The absurd rock_in the garden of Versailles has alone cost
three millions. lhave sometimes calculated what might have
been done with the expence of the three py ramids pf Gizah,
and 1 have found that it would easily have constructed. from
the Red Sea to Alexandria, a canal 150 feet wide. and 30
deep, completely covered in with hewn stones and a para
pet. together with a fortiﬁed and commercial town, consisting
of four hundred houses furnished with cisterns. What differ
ence in point of utility between such a canal and these
pyramids.2
€HAPTER XL 55
the cultivator, seeing his labours increase without
retribution,lost all coinage ; the merchant,despoiled,
was disgusted with industry ; the multitude, con
demned to be for ever poor, restricted their labour to
simple necessaries; and all productive activity van
ished.
The surcharge of taxes rendering lands a burden
some possession, the poor proprietor abandoned his
ﬁelds, or sold it to the powerful ; and fortune became
concentrated in afew hands. All the laws and institu
tions favouring this accumulation, the nation became
divided into a group of wealthy drones, and a multi
tude of mercenary poor ; the people Were degraded
with indigence, the great depraved with satiety, and
the number of those interested in the preservation of
the state decreasing, its strength and existence be» '
came proportionally precarious.
On the other hand, emulation ﬁnding no object,
science no encouragement, the mind sunk into pro
found ignorance.
The admx'ni.M1-ration deirig secret and mysterious,
there existed no means of reform or amelioration.
The chiefs governing by fares or fraud, the people
viewed them as aﬁwtion of public enemies ; and all
harmony ceased between the governors and go
verned.
All these vices having enervated the states of the
Wealthy part of Asia, the vagrant and poor people of
the adjacent deserts and mountains coveted the en
joyments of thefertile jilaina ,- and, urged by a eu
56 G-IAPTER X}.
pidity common to all, attacked the jioliahed em/n'/rts,
and overturned the thrones of their despots. These
revolutions were rapid and easy ; because the poli
.ey of tyrants had enfeebled the subjects, razed the for
tresses, destroyed the warriors ; and because the op
pressed subject remained without personal interest,
and the. mercenary soldier without courage.
And hordes of barbarians having reduced entire
nations to slavery,-the empires, formed of conquerors
and conquered, united in their bosom two classes
essentially opposite and hostile. All the principles of
society were dissolved : there was no longer any com-
mon interest, no longer any jiublic spirit ; and a dis
' tinction was established of casts and races, which re'
duced to regular system the maintenance of disorder;
and he who was born of this or that blood, was born a
slave or a tyrant, property or proprietor.
The oppressors being less. numerous than the op
pressed, it was necessary to perfect the scienre of
ojxﬂresa'ion, in order to support this false equilibrium.
The art of governing became the art ofsubjecting the
many to the few. To enforce an obedience so contrary
to instinct, the severest punishments were established,
and the cruelty of the laws rendered manners atro
cious. The distinction of persons establishing in the
state two codes, two orders of criminal justice, two
sets of laws, the people, placed between .the propen
.sities of the heart, and the oath uttered from the
mouth, had two consciences in contradiction with
each other; and the ideas of justice and injustice had
their foundation no longer in the understanding.
CHAPTER XI. 5]
Under such a system, the people fell into dejection
and despair ; and the accidents ofnature were added
to the other evils which assailed them. Prostrated by
so many calamities, they preferred their causes to
superior and hidden powers ; and, because they had
tyrants on earth, they fancied others in heaven ; and
superstition aggravated the misfortunes of nations. 5
Fatal doctrines arose, and systems of religion,
gloomy and misanthropic, which painted their gods,
like their despots,wick¢'d and envious Man,to appease
them, offered up the sacriﬁce of all his enjoyments:
he environed himself in jlrivutiona, and reversed the
laws of nature. Conceiving his /ﬂcasures to be crimes,
I/'
l
l”
I
g
his SUifél'il1g5 expiations, he endeavoured to love /min, ‘
and to abjure the love of.himself,' he persecuted his
senses, hated his life ; and a se(f-denying and anti
social morality plunged nations into the inertia of
death. .
‘ But provident nature having endowed the heartdﬂ
man with hope inexhaustible, ﬁnding his desires of
happiness all bafﬂcd on this earth, he pursued it into
himself another country ; an asylum. where, far from
tyrants, he should recover the rights of his nature,and
' thence resulted new disorders. Smitten with an ima
ginary world, man despised that of nature ; for chi
merical hojiea, he neglr..cted realities. His life began
totappear a. toilroms journey, a jlainful dream ,-> his
body a jlrison, the obstacle to his felicity ; and the
earth, a place of 01:10 and of ﬁilgrtmagr, not worthy
of culture. Then aholy ll|dul.’:nCC spread over the
political world; the ﬁelds were deserted, empires
_ another world: by a secret Qlusion he created for .
I 2
58 CHAPTER XI.
depopulated, monuments neglected, and deserts mul
tiplied ; superstition and fanaticism, combining their
operations, overwhelmed the earth with devastation
and ruin.
5' Thus agitated by their own passions, men, whether
collectively or individually taken, always greedy and
improvident, passing from slavery to tyranny, from
pride to baseness, from presumption to despondency,
have made themselves the perpetual instruments of
their own misfortunes.
These then are the principles, simple and natural,
which regulated the destiny of ancient states : by this
regular and continued series of causes and eﬂ'ects,
they rose or fell, in proportion as the physical laws
of the human heart were respected or contravened ;
and in the course of their successive changes, a hun
dred different nations, a hundred different empires,
by turns humbled, elevated, conquered, overthrown,
have repeated for the earth their instructive lessons..-.
Yet these lessons were lost for the generations which.
have followed ! The 'sorders of times past have re
appeared in the present age } The chiefs of the nations
have continued to walk in the paths of falsehood and
tyranny ! the people to wander in the darkness of su
perstition and ignorance !
Since then, continued the Genius, with"new collect
ed energy, since the experience of past ages is lost
for the living; since the errors of progenitors have
not instructed their descendants, the ancient examples
are about to re-appear ; the earth will see renewed»
CHAPTER XI. 59
the tremendous scenes it has forgotten; new revo
lutions will agitate nations and empires; powerful
thrones will be again overturned, and terrible catas
trophes will teach mankind that the laws of nature and
the precepts of wisdom and truth are not to be in
fringed with impunity.
CHAPTER XII.
MSSONS 0!' TIMES PAST REPEATID ON 111$
PRESENT
THUS spoke the Genius. Struck with the justict
and coherence of his discourse, assailed with a crowd
of ideas, repugnant to my habits, yet convincingto my
reason, lremained absorbed in profound silence..."
At length, while with serious and pensive mien, I
kept my eyes ﬁxed on Asia, suddenly in the north,
on the shores of the Black Sea, and in the ﬁelds oi
the Crimea, clouds of smoke and ﬂame attracted my
attention: they appeared to rise at the same time from
all parts ofthe peninsula, and passing by the Isthmu.Q .
into the continent, they ran, as ifdriven by a westerly
wind, along the oozy lake of Arof, and were spent in
the grassy plains of Cuban : and following more
attentively the course of these clouds, I observed that
they were preceded or followed by swarms of moving
creatures, which like ants or grasshoppers disturbed
by the foot of a passenger, agitated themselves with
vivacity. Sometimes these swarms appeared to drive
in collisiouagainst each other; and numbers, after the
concussion, remained motionless... \Vhile disquieted
at this spectacle, l strained my sight to distinguish
the objects : —- Do you see, said the Genius, those
ﬂames which spread over the earth, and do you com
prehend their causes and eiibcts? —- O Genius! I
answered,l see those columns of ii ''me and smoke,
.‘ and something like insects which accompany them :
o
CHAPTER XII. 6|—
but when scarcely I can distinguish the great masses
of cities and monuments, how should I discover such
little creatures ? I can just discover that these insects
mimic battles ; for they advance, retreat, rush toge
ther, pursue :-—This, said the Genius, is no mimicry,
these are real battles.'—And what, said I, are those
mad animalcula which destroy one another ? beings
Ofa day I will they not perish soon enough Then
the Genius, again touching my sight and hearing,
Look, said he. and listen !—lmmediately directing my
sight towards the same objects : Ah I wretches, cried
I, pierced with grief, these columns of ﬂame ; these
insects ; oh! Genius. they are men ! these are the
ravages of war These torrents of ﬂame rise from
towns and villages! I see the squadrons who kindle
them, and spread with drawn swords over the ﬁelds !
-—Before them move the crowds of old men, women,
and children, fugitive and desolate. I perceive other
horsemen, who, with shouldered lances, accompany
and guide them ? I even recognize them to be Tar
tars, by their led horses‘, their kaipacks, and tufts of
hair. And, doubtless those who pursue, in triangular
hats and green uniform, are Muscovites.... Ah ! lnow
comprehend; a war is kindled between the empire
of the Czars, and that of the Sultans. Not yet, replied
the Genius ; this is only a preliminary. These Tar
' ‘ A Tartar horseman has always two horses, of which he
leads one in hand.. . The lalpack is a homer made of \he
skin ofa sheep or other animal. The part of the head covered
by this bonnet is shaved, wilh the exception of a tuft, about
the size of a crown piece, and which is suffered to grow to
the length of seven or eight inches, precisely where our
priests place their tonsure. It is by this tuft of hair, worn by
the majonty of Hussulmen_ that the .ing'el of the tomb is to
take the elect and carry them into Paradise.
62 CHAPTER XII.
tars have been, and yet would be, troublesome neigh
bours. Thc ’Muscovites are driving them off, ﬁnding
their country would be a convenient extension of their
own limits ; and as a prelude to another revolution,
the throne ofthe Gucrais is destroyed.
In fact, I saw the Russian standards ﬂoating over
the Crimea, and soon after waving on the Euxine....
But the empire of the Mussulmen was moved at the
cry of the ﬂying Tartars. They are driving off our
brethren, cried the children of Mahomet: they are
outr.aging the people of the prophet ! inﬁdels occupy
a consecrated land", and profane the temples of
lslamism. Let us arm; let us rush to combat, to
avenge the glory of God and our own cause.
And a general movement of war took place in both
empires ; in every part they assembled armed men ;
provisions, stores, and all the murderous apparatus of
battle was displayed; and the tﬁnples of both nations,
besieged by an immense people, presented a specta
cle which ﬁxed my attention. On one side the Musuh
men assembled before their churches, washed their
hands and feet, pared their nails, combed their beards ;
then, spreading the earth with carpets, and turning
Qowards the south, their arms sometimes crossed, and
sometimes expanded, they made genuﬂexions and
prostrations; and, remembering the reverse expe
* It is not in the power of the sultan to code to a foreign
power a province inhabited by true believers. The people,
V instigated by the lawyers, would not fail to revolt. This is
one reason which has led those who know the Turks, to re
gard. as chimerical the ceding of Candia, Cyprus, and Egypt,
projected by certain European potentatem
CHAPTER XII. 63.
rienced in their last war, they exclaimed, God of mer
cy and clemency ! hast thou then abandoned thy faith
ful people ? thou who hast promised the dominion
over nations to thy Prophet, and stamped his religion
by so many triumphs, dost thou deliver thy true he
lievers to the swords ofinﬁdels ? And the lmans and
the Santons said to the people ; it is in chastisement
of your sins: you eat pork; you drink wine; you
touch unclean things : God hath punished you. Do
penance therefore ; purify, repeat the profession of
faith’ ; fast from the rising to the setting sun, give
thetenth ofyour goods to the mosques ; go to Mecca ;
and God will render you victorious. And the people,
recovering courage, uttered loud cries : There is but
one God, said they (transported with fury) and Mahoe
met is his prophet; accursed be every one who be
lieveth not !... God of all goodness I grant us to ex
terminate these Christians ; it is for thy glory we
ﬁght ; our death is a martyrdom for thy name !... And
then offering victims,‘they prepared for battle.
On the other side, the Russians, kneeling, said _:
VVe render thanks to God, and.celebrate his power ;
he hath strengthened our arm to humble his enemies.
Here our prayers, thou God of goodness I to please
.thee, we will pass three days without eating either
meat or eggs. Grant us to extirpate these impious
Mahometans, and to overturn their empire : to thee
we will consecratc the tenth of our spoils ; to thee
we will raise new temples. And the priests ﬁlled
the church with a cloud of smoke, and said to the
people : we pray for you, God accepteth our incense,
and blesseth your arms. Continue to fast and to ﬁght;
_'There is but one God, and Mahomet is his prophet
M
u
64 CHAPTER XII.
confess to us your secret sins ; give your wealth to
the church ; we will absolve you from your sins, and
you shall die in a state of grace. And they sprinkled
water upon the people, dealt out to them, as amulets
and charms, small relics ofthe dead ; and the people
breathed war and combat.
Struck with this contrast of the same passions, and
grieving for their fatal consequences, lwas con
sidering the diﬁiculty with which the common Judge
could yield to prayers so contradictory; when the
Genius, glowing with anger, spoke with vehemence.
What accents of madness strike my ear ? what blind
and perverse delirium disorders the spirits of the
nations ? sacrilegious prayers, rise not from the
earth! and you, oh heavens, reject their homicide
VOWS and impious thanksgivings ! Deluded mortals! '
is it thus you revere the Divinity ? Say then ; how
should he, whom you style your common father, re
ceive the homage of his children murdering one
another ? Ye victors! with what eye should he view
your hands reeking in the blood he hath created?
And, what do you expect, oh vanquished, from use
less groans ? Hath God the heart of a mortal, with
passions ever changing ? is he, like you, agitated with
vengeance or compassion, with wrath or repentance I
what base conception of the.most sublime of beings !
According to them, it would seem that God, whim
eichl and capricious, is angered or appeased as a man :
that he loves and hates by turns ; _ that he punishes or
favours ; that, weak or wicked, he broods over his
hatred ; that, contradictory or perﬁdious, he lays
snares to entrap; that he punishes the evils be per
mits ; that he foresees but hinders not crimes; that,
like a corrupt judge, he is bribed by oﬁ.erings ; like I."
Q
. CHAPTER XII. 6.J
ignorant despot, he makes laws andrcvokes them ;
.that, like a savage tyrant,he grantsorresumes favotirs
without reason, and is ﬂexible only to'baseness..... Ah I
fiow I know the lying spirit ofman ! Contemplating
the picture which he hath drawn of the Divinity, No,
said I, it is not God who hath made man after the image
of God ,- but man hath made God after the image of >_
man ; he hath given him his own mind, clothing him
with his own propensities; ascribed to him his own
judg1'nents.... And when in.this medley he ﬁnds the
contradiction ofhis own principles, affecting hypocri
tical humility, he imputes weakness to his reason, and 1
names the absurdities of his own mind the mytvteries‘
.of God.
He hath said, God is immoveable, yet he offers
prayers to change him ; he hath pronounced him in
comprehensible, yet he interprets him without ceas—
ing.
'Impostors have arisenon the earth who have called
themselves the con'/idants of God ,' and, erecting
themselves into teachers of the people, have opened
the ways of lying and iniquity: they have ascribed
merit topracticesindifferent or ridiculous ; they have
' supposed a virtue in certain postures, in pronouncing
.certain words, articulating certain names 5 they have
transformed into a crime the eating of certain meats,
the drinking of certain liquors, on one day ratherthan
another. The Jew would rather die than .labour on the
Sabba/h ,- the Persian would endure suffocation, be
fore he would blow theﬁre with his breath ;' the In
dian places supreme perfection in besmearing him
self with row-dung, andﬁronouncing mysteriously the
Q G
55 CHAPTER XII.
word xi\''m“ ; the Mussulman believes he has expirat
ed every thing in washing his head and arms ; and
disputes, sword in hand, whether the ablution should
c0mme7lce at the elbowr, or ﬁnger’s ends : the Chris
tian would think himself damned, if he ate ﬂesh in
stead ofmilk or butter. Oh sublime doctrines ! Doc
trines truly from heaven ! Oh perfect morals, and
worthy of martyrdom or the apostolate ! I will cross
the seas to teach these admirable laws to the savage
people, to distant nations; I will say unto them, Chil
dren of nature, how long will you walk in the paths
ofignorancc? how long will you mistake the true
principles of morality and religion F come'and learn
its lessons from nations truly pious and learned, in
civilized countries. They will inform you how, to
gratify God, you must in certain months of the year,
languish the whole day with hunger and thirst ; how
you may shed your neighbour’s blood and purify your
’ This word is in the religion of the Ilindoos a sacred em
blcm of the Divinity. It is only to be pronounced in secret,
r:ithout being heard by any one. It is formed of three letters,
of which the ﬁrst, a, signiﬁes the principle ofall, the Creator,
Brama ; the second, ii, the conservator, Vichenoul; .and the
last, m, the destroyer who puts an end to all, Chiven. his
pronounced like the monosyllable om, and expresses the
unity of those three Gods. The idea is precisely that of the
Alpha and Omega mentioned in the New Testament.
1 This is one of the grand points of schism between the
partizans of Omar and those of Ali. Suppose two Mahom
rt-ans to meet on a journey, and to accost each other with
brotherly affection : the hour of prayer arrives ; one begins
his ablutionat his ﬁngers, the other at the elbow, and in
stantly they are mortal enemies. O sublime importance ofre
ligious opinions! O profound philosophy of the authors of
> them !
‘I
CHAPTER XII. \ - 67
selffrom it by professions oi.'i'aith and methodical ab
lutions ; how you may steal his property and he ab
solved on sharing it with certain persons, who devote
themselves to its consumption.
Sovereign and invisible Power of the Universe 1
mysterious moverofnature '. universal soul ofbeings !
thou who art unknown, yet revered by mortals under
so many names ; being incomjlrc/lensible dnd inﬁnite ,. _
G-od,@who in the immensity of the heavens directest
the movement of worlds, and peoplest the abyss’ of
space with millions of suns ; say, what do these hu
man insects, which my sight hath already lost on the
earth, appear in thy eye ? To thee who art guitling
stars in their orbits, what are those wormlings wri
thing themselves in the dust? Of what import to thy
immensity, their distinctions of parties and sects ?
And, of what concern the subtleties with which their
folly torments itself ?
And you, credulous men, show me the effect of
your practices ? In so many centuries, during which
you have been followingoraltering them,what changes
have your recipes wrought in the laws of nature? Is
the sun brighter ? Is the course ofthe seasons varied ?
Is the earth more fruitful or its inhabitants more hap
py ? lfGod isgood, can your penances please him ?
If inﬁnite, can your homage add to his glory ? Ifhis
decrees have been formed on foresight of every cir_
cumstance, can your prayers change them ? Answer,
inconsistent men !
Ye conquerors of the earth, who pretend you serve "
God, doth he need your aid ? If he wishes to punish
hath he not earthquakes, volcanoes, and thunder?
J\
as ‘ cnaprnn xu.
And, a merciful God, knoweth he not to correct with
out extermination ?
Ye Mussulmen, if God chastiseth you for violating
the ﬁve precepts, how hath he raised up the Franks.
who ridicule them ? lf he governeth the earth by the
Koran, by what did he govern it before the days of
the Prophet Z’ VVhen it was covered with so many
nations who drank wine, ate pork,/and went not to
Mecca, whom he nevertheless permitted tograise
powerful empires ? How did he judge the Sabeans of
Nineveh and of Babylon ; the Persian, worshipper of
ﬁre ; the Greek and Romans idolaters ; the ancient
kingdoms of the Nile ; and the Arabians and Tartars,
your own ancestors ? How doth he yetjudge so many
nations who deny, or know not your worship ? The '
numerous casts of Indians, the vast empire of. the
Chinese, the sable race of Africa, the islanders of the
Ocean, the tribes of America ?
Presumptuous and ignorant men, who arrogate the
earth to yourselves! if God were to gather all the
' generations past and present, what would be, in their
ocean, the sects, calling themselves universal, of
Christians and Mussulmcn ? what would be the judg
ments of his equal and common justice over the real
universality ofmankind Z Therein it is that your know
ledge loseth itself in incoherent systems; itis.there
that truth shines with evidence ; and there are mani
fested the powerful and simple laws of nature and
reason; laws of a common and general mover ;_ o£a
God, impartial and just, who sheds rain on a country,
without asking who is its prophet ; who cuusevh his
sun to shine alike on all the races of men, on the
qr/iite as on the black, on the Jew, on the Mussulmarn
CHAPTER XII. 69
the Christian, and the Idolater ; who rcarcth the har
vest wherever cultivated with industry ; who multi
plietlrevery nation where industry and order prevail ;
who prospereth every empire where justice is prac
tised, where the powerful man is restrained, and the
poor protected by the laws ; where the weak live in
safety, and every one enjoys the right given him by
nature, and a compact formed in justice. These are
the principles by which people are judged ! this the
true_religion which regulateth the destiny ofempires,
and which, oh Ottomans, hath governed yours I 111
terrogate your ancestors, ask of them by what means
they rose to greatness; when, few, poor, and idola/e1‘s,
.they came fromthe deserts of Tartaty, and cncamped
in these fertile countries ; ask ifit was by lslamism,
till then unknown to them, that they conquered the
Greeks and the Arabs ; or, by their courage, their
prudence, moderation, spirit of union, the true pow
ers of the social state. Then the Sultan himself dis
pensed justice, and maintained discipline ; the pre
varicating judge, the extortionate governor, were
punished, and the multitude lived at ease. The cul
tivator Was protected from the rapine of the janizary,
and the ﬁelds prospered ; the high roads were safe,
and commerce caused abundance. You were a band
of plunderers, but just among yourselves. You sub
dued nations, but did not oppress them. Harrassed by
their own princes, they preferred being your tribu
tari‘..s. VVhat matters it, said the Christian, whether
my master breaks or adores images, if he renders
justice to me ? God will judge his doctrmes in the
heavens above. You were sober and hardy'? youro
cnemies timid and enervated : you were expert in
battle, your enemies unskilfu]: your leaders were
experienced, your soldiers warlike and docile : b00ty
G 2
70 CHAPTER XII.
1
excited ardour; bravery was rewarded, cowardice and
indiscipline punished, and all the springs of the hu
man heart were in action. Thus you vanquished a
hundred nations, and of a mass of conquered king
doms compounded an immense empire.
But other manners have succeeded ; and in the
reverses attending them. the laws ofnature have still
exerted their force. After devouring your enemies,
your cupidity, always alive, has re-acted on itself, and,
concentrated in your own bowels, has consumed you.
Having become rich, you have quarrelled for partition.
and enjoyment, and disorder hath arisen in every class
.of society. The Sultan, intoxicated with grandeur, has
mistaken the object ofhis functions ; and all the vices
of arbitrary power have been developed. Meeting no
obstacle to his appetites, he has become a depraved
being ; weak and arrogant, he l1as kept the people at
a distance ; and the voice ofthe people has no longer
instructed and guided him. Ignorant, yet ﬂattered,
neglecting all instruction, all study, he has fallen into
imbeeility: unﬁt for business, he has thrown its bur
thens on hirelings, and these have deceived him. To
satisfy their own passions, they have stimulated and
nourished his; they have multiplied his wants ; and
his enormous luxury has consumed every thing ; the
frugal table, plain clothing, simple dwelling of his
ancestors, have no longer suﬂiced. To supply his
pomp, earth and sea have been exhausted : the rarest
furs have been brought from the poles ; .the most
costly tissues from the equator : he has devoured at
a meal the tribute of a city, and in a day that of a pro- '
“ vince He has surroundrd_ himself with an army of
women, eunuchs, and satellites. They have instilled
into him that the /virtues of kings is to be liberal, and
_ n.. aw
.._.i_
we
¢HA'PTER XII. . 1;
the muniﬁcence and treasures ofthe people have been
delivered into the hands of ﬁatterers. In imitation of
» their master, his servants also must have splendid
houses, the most exquisite furniture; carpets em
broidered at great cost, vases of gold and silver for
the meanestuses, and all the riches of the empire
have been swallowed up in the Send'. '
\T0 supply this inordinate lux'ury, the slaves and
woanewhave sold their inﬂuence, and venulity has
introduced ageneral depravity: the favour .of the
sovereign has been sold to his V.i.zier, and the. Vizier
has sold the empire. The law has.been sold to the
Cadi, and the Cadi has made sale of justice. The
altar has been sold to the priest, and the priest has
sold the kingdom of heaven : and gold obtaining
every thing, they have sacriﬁced every thing to
obtain gold. For gold friend has betrayed friend,
the child his parent, the servant his master, the
wife her honour, the merchant his conscience ; and
good faith, morals, concord, and strength, have been
banished from the state.
The Pacha, who had purchased the government
of his province, has farmed it out to others, ;.vho ex
ercise every extortion. He has sold in turn the col
lection of the taxes, the command of the troops, the
administ1'atio1i of the villages ; and as every employ
has been n.ans.ient, rapine, spread from grade to
grade, has been greedy _and precipitate. The re-’
VCIILK: oﬂicer has ﬂeeced the merchant, and com
merce is annihilated; the Age has plundered the
husbandman, and culture has degenerated. The
labourer, deprived of his stock, has been unable to
saw; the tax was augmented, and he cmlld not pay
72. ' CHAPTER XII.
it; the bastinade has been threatened, and he has
borrowed. Money, from want of security, is locked
up from circulation ; interest therefore is enormous,.
and the usury of the rich has aggravated the misery
of the labourer.
\ VVhen excessive droughts and accidents of seasons
have blasted the harvest, the government has .admit
ted no delay, no indulgence for the tax ; and distress
bearing hard on the village, a part of its inhabitants
have taken refuge in the cities ; and their burthens
falling on those who remained, has completed their
ruin, and depopulated the country.
If, driven to extremity by tyranny and outrage,
the villages have rovolted,“ so mu_chthe better,” says
the Pacha. He wages war on them, assails their
houses, pillages their property, carries off their
stock; and when the ﬁelds have become a desert,
“ what care I,” says he, “ l leave them to-morrow.”
The earth wanting labourers, the rains of heaveh
and overﬂowing of torrents have stagnated in
marshes; and their putrid exhalations, in a warm
cli1nate,h.ave caused epidemics, plagues, and mala
dies of all sorts ; lrom whence have ﬂowed additional
depredation, penury, and ruin. ' '
Oh! who can enumerate all the calamities 0F
tyrannical government.
Sometimes the Pachas make war on each other ;
and for their personal quarrels, the ’provinces ol the
same state are laid waste. Sometimes, fearing their
masters, they attempt independence, and draw on
their subjects the ehastisement ut their revolﬁ
(~3HA‘PTER Xll. 73
Sometimes dreading their subjects, they invite and
subsidize strangers, and to render them faithful, sub
mit all things to their plunders. Here they prose
cute the rich, and despoil themunder falsepretences;
there they suborn false witnesses, and impose penal
ties for suppositious offences : every where they ex
cite the hatred of parties, encourage informations to
obtain amercements, extort property, seize persons ;
and when their short sighted avarice has accumulated
into one mass all the riches of a country, the govern
ment, by an execrable perﬁdy, under pretence of
avenging its oppressed people, takes to itself all
their spoils, as if they were the culprits, and sheds
the useless blood of its agents for a crime of which
it is the accomplice.
Oh wretches, monarchs or ministers, who sport
with the lives and fortunes of the people ! Is it you
who gave breath to man, that you dare take it from
him I do you give growth to the plants of the earth,
that you may waste them ? do you toil to furrow the
ﬁeld ? do you endure the ardour of the sun, and the
torment of thirst, to reap the harvest or thresh the
grain ? do you, like the shepherd, watch thr0ugh~the
dews ofthe night ? do you traverse deserts, like the
merchant ? Ah E on hcholding the pride and cruelty
of the powerful, I have been transported with indig
nation, and have said in my wrath, will there.never
then arise on the earth men who will avenge the peo
ple and punish tyrants ! a handtul of brigands devour
the multitude, and the multitude submits to be de
voured ! Oh i degenerated people’. Know you not
your rights ! all authority isfr om you ,' all power is
yours, unrightfully do kings command you oulhe au
thority of God and oftheir lama. Soldiers be still 5 if.
.,'.r
74 CHAPTER XII.
God supports the Sultan he needs not your aid: if
his sword suﬂices, he wants not yours: let us see
What he can do alone...... The soldiers grounded their
arms: mnlbchold these 1na.9tcrs ofthe =worl(l,feebleas
the meanestoftheirsubjects! People! know that those
who govern are your chiefs, not your masters ; your
agents, not your owners ; that they have no authority
over you, but by you, and for you : that your wealth
is yours, and they accountable for it; that, kings or
subjects, God has made all men equal; and no mor
tal has a right to oppress his fellow creatures. ’
But this nation and its chiefs have mistaken these
holy truths; they must abidethen the consequences
of their blindness. The decree is past ; the day ap
proaches when thiscolossusof power shall be crushed
and crumbled under its own mass. Yes, I swear it
by the ruins ofso many em/iires (l£'8L'1'0yt’(l, the emj1i1'¢'
\_ of the Cr¢'sCc’11l' shall follow the fate of the despotism
it has copied. A nation of strangers shall drive the
Sultan from his metropolis ; the thrpn: Q/'0rkhan
shall be 0'verturned; the last shoot Q/'/iie trunk shall
be broken of; and the horde of Oguzians*, deprived
of their chief, shall disperse like that of th_e Nogais.
In this dissolution, the people ofthe empire, loosen
ed from the yoke which held them together, shall
resume their ancient distinctions, and a general anar
chy shall follow, as happened in the empire ofthe
\
“ Before the Turks took the name oftheir chief’ Othman I.
they hm“that of Oguzians ; and it wasunder this appellation
that they were driven out ofTarlary by Gengis, and came
from the borders of Gihoun to settle themselves in Anatolia_
CHAPTER XII. 75
$ophis*". Until there shall arise among the Arabians,
Armenians, or Greeks, legislators who may compose
new states..... Oh E if there were on earth men pro
found and bold ! what elements for grandeur and
glory ! But already the hour of destiny is come ;
the cry of war strikes my ear ; and the catastrophe
begins. In vain the Sultan leads forth his armies ;
his ignorant warriors are beaten and dispersed; in
vain he calls his subjects ; their hearts are ice. Io
it not written, say they, what matters who is our
nlastcr ? We cannot lose by the change. In vain the _I
true believers invoke heaven and the prophet ; the
prophet is dead ; and heaven, without pity, answers,
Cease to invoke me ; you have generated your own \/
evils ; cure them yourselves. Nature has established '
laws ; your part is to obey them ; observe, reason, and
proﬁt by experience. it is the folly of man which
ruins him: let his wisdom save him ; the people are
ignorant ; let them gain instruction : their chiefs are /
wiclted ;.let them correct and amend, for such is
nature’s decree. Since the evils of society sj2rl'ng
from cujiidity and ignorance, men will never cease 50
be ]1eraecutcd,. till they become enlightened and wise ,
till they practise justice, founded on a knowledge of
their relations, and of the laws of their organizationf.
* In Persia, after the death of Thamas'Koulikan, each pro.
vince had its chief,.and for forty years these chiefs were in a
constant state ofwar. In this view the Turks do not say with' (
out reason : Ten years of a tyrant are less destructive than a
single night of anarchy.
1rA singular moral phenomenon made its ap earance in
Europe in the .year 1788. A great nation, je ous of its
liberty, contracted :1 fondness for a nation the enemy of
liberty : a nation friendly to the arts, for anation that dctests'
75 CHAPTER XII.
them ; a mild and tolerant nation, for a persecuting and
fanatic one ; a social and gay nation, for a nation whose
characteristics are gloom and misanthropy ; in a word, .the
French were smitten with apassion for the Turks : they were
desirous of engaging in a war for them, and that,at a time
when a revolution in their own country wasjust at its com
mencement. A man, who perceived the truenature of the si
tuation, wrote a book to dissuade them from the war : it was
immediately pretended that he was paid by the Government,
which in reality wished the war, and which was upon the.point
of shutting him up in astate prison. Another man wrote to
recommend the war : he was applauded, and his word taken
for the science, the politeness, and importance of the Turks.
It is true that he believed in his own thesis, for he had found
among them people who cast a nativity, and alchymists who
ruined his fortune ; as he fotmd Martinists at Paris, who ena.
bled him to sup with Sesostris,and Magnetisers who conclud
ed with destroying his existence. Notwithstanding this, the
Turks were beaten by the Russians, and the man who then
predicted the fall of their empire, persists in the prediction.
The result of this fall will be a complete change of the poli
tical system, as far as it relates to the coast of the Mediter
ranean. If, however, the French become important in propor
tion as they become free, and if they make use of the advan‘
tagetliey will obtain, their progress may easily prove ofthe .
most honourable sort ; inasmuch as, by the wise decrees of
fate, the true interest ofmankind evermore accords with their
true morality.
the
' fan:
oh:
F11
deg
meg
tum
imt
whi
of a
no
for
It is
arm
ru'u
blm
ed ‘
P“?
Th(
tic:
ram
tion
tag’
mo:
fate
trm
d ' If/.r:¢¢_
" IL'/'oI$urz.
/1 “’l’.§'t!v'i'§IY_L~
fill/.,/1"e‘1Lv¢l$‘7u1lr/\-' ‘
Y/'!“f{1JI?ll-J‘
'. 7?vint/1/111 ‘
I._
F I
I
5* . .. y
- _ I \’ '
. _— '
'\ .;_;9’ . _ '
_ v_ . ’
‘ .CHAPTER XIII. ' ~ * '
.5' " ' .
. ‘ 0_ .
WILL run numan Racm rmrnovm? . ;" '_
\ I 0
I
A T these words, oppressed with the painful seu- "
timcnt with whichtheir severity overwhelmed me :
wo to the nations, criedl, .melting in tears! wo to ri1y ~
'_'eelf ! Ah ! now it is that I despair of the happiness
J man ? Since his miseries proceed from his heart;
smce the remedy is in his own power, w.o for liver to
his existence ! Who, indeed, will ever be able to .
=restrain the lust of wealth in the strong and power
ful ? Who can enlighten the ignorance of the weak ?
Who can teach themultitude to know their rights, _
and force their chiefs to perform theimluties ? Thus
the race of man is always doomed to suffer ! Thus_.i.'
the individual will not cease to oppress theindividual,
a nation to attack a nation ! and daysofprosperity, of
glory, for these regions, shall never return. Alas I _
conquerors will come ; they will drive ouﬂthe oppres-.Z "
sors, and ﬁx themselves in their place ; but, il1l16Pit-2'1;.,
ing their power, they will inherit their rapacity; and
.the earth will have changed tyrants, without chang- ;__ _
in thet r nnv. " 1 "
H S Y a 4 I _ _ “
._f\“'Then, turning to the Genius : O Genius, said I, _"_$'_.j
§4despai1' hath settledon my soul: knowing the nature .: _
H
78 CHAPTER XIII.
I .
‘ . of man ; the perversity of those who govern, and the
[ debasement of the governed, have disgusted me with
life. And since there is no choice but to be the ac
. complice or the victim of oppression, What remains
to the man ofvirtue but to mingle his ashes with those
of the tomb?
- The Genius then gave mea look ofseverity, ming
led with compassion ; and after a few moments of si
lence, he replied: Virtue, then, consists in dying!
The wicked is indefatigable in consummating his
crime ; and the just is discouraged from doing good
at the ﬁrst obstacle he meets !... But such is the hu
man heart : a little success intoxicates it with conﬁ
dence ; a reverse overturns and confounds it : always
given up to the sensation of the moment, it never
judges things from their nature, but from the sallies
of its own passion....
Mortal, who despairest of the human race, on what
profound combination of facts hast thou established
thy conclusion ? Hast thou scrutinized the organiza
tion of sensible beings,to determine with precision
whether the instinctive force which moves them on
to happiness is essentially weaker than that which re
\ pels them from it ; or, embracing in one glance the
history of the species,'and judging the future by
the past, hast thou shown that all improvement is
impossible; Say ! has human society, since its
origin, made no progress towards knowledge and a
better state ? Are men still in their forests, destitute
of every thing, ignorant, stupid, and ferocious ? Are
all the nations still in that age when nothing was seen
upon the globe but brutal robbers and brutal slaves
GHAPTER XIII. 71: ‘L
If at any time, in any place, individuals have amelio
rated, why shall not the whole mass ameliorr e ? lf /
partial societies have made improvements,what shall
hinder the improvement of society in general ? and
if the ﬁrst obstacles are overcome, why should .the
others be insurmountable ?
Art thou disposed to think that the human race
degenerates? Guard against the illusion and the
paradoxes of the misanthrope. Man, discontented
with the present, imagines for the past a perfection \
which I>1CV€1'“C}_{lSt€Cl, and which onlyiserves to cover
his chagrin. ’He praises the dead out of hatred to
the living, and beats the children with the bones of
their fathers.
.
To prove this pretended retrograde progress from
perfection we must belie the testimony of reason and
of fact ; and if the facts of history are in any measure
uncertain, we must belie the living fact of the orga
nization of man; we must prove that he is born with
the enlightened use of his senses ; that he knows _
without experience to distinguish aliment from poi'-lg?‘
son; that the child is wiser than the old man; thaE§"'
the blind walks with more safety than the clear sight
ed: that the civilized man is more miserable than
the cannibal; and indeed that there is no ascentling
Scale in experience and instruction.
Young man, believe the voice of tombs, and.the
testimony of monuments. Some countriesl'i have
dtﬁtless fallenfrom whattheywere at certain epochs ;
but if we weigh the wisdom and happiness of their
iiiliabitants, even in those times, w fl'1all ﬁnd more
‘ 80 CHAPTER XTII.
of splendour than of reality in their glory ; we shall"
ﬁntl, in the most celebrated of ancient states, enor
mous vices and cruel abuses the true causes of their
decay; we shall ﬁnd in general that the principles
of government were atrocious ; that insolent rob
bcries, barbarous wars, and implacable hatreds were
raging from nation to nation*; that natural right
was unknown ; that morality was perverted by sense'
‘ less fanaticism and deplorable superstition; that a
dream, a vision, an oracle, were constantly the causes
of vast commotions. Perhaps the nations are not
yet entirely cured of all these evils ; but their inten
sity at least is diminished ; and the experience of the
past has not been wholly lost. For the last three cen
turies, especially, knowledge has increased and been
.extended ; civilization, favoured by happy circum
stances, has made a sensible progress ; inconve
niences and abuses have even turned to its advantage ;
for if states have been too much extended by con
quest, the people, by uniting under the same yoke,
have lost the spirit of shyness and division which
made them all enemies one to the other. lflthe pow
ers of government have been more concentrated,
there has been more system and harmony in their
exercise ; if wars have become more extensive in
the mass, they are less bloody in detail : if men have
'gone to battle with less personality, less energy, their
struggles have been less sanguinary and less ferocious;
they have been less free, but less turbulent; more
' Read the history of the wars of' Rome and Carthage, of
Sparta and Messina, of Athens and Syracuse, of the Hebrews
and the Phocnicians . yet these are the nations of whic.h anti~
quity boasts as being most polished.
CHAPTER xni. 8.1
elfeminate, but more paciﬁc. Despotism itself has
rendered them some service ; for if governments
have been more absolute, they have been more quiet
and less tempestuous; if thrones have become apro
perty and hereditary, they have excited less dissen
tions, and the people have had less convulsions; ﬁnal
ly, if the despots, jealous and mysterious, have inter
dicted all knowledge of their administration, all con
currence in the management of public all'airs, the ?
passions of men, drawn aside from politics, have
ﬁxed upon the arts and the sciences of nature; and
the sphere of ideas in every direction has been en
larged; man, devoted to abstract studies, has better '
found his place in the system of nature, and his re
lations in society; principles have been better dis
cussed, ﬁnal causes better explained, knowledge
more extended, individuals better instructed, man
ners more social, and life more happy; the species
at large, especially in certain countries, has gained
considerably; and this amelioration cannot but in
crease in future, because its two principal obstacles,
those eveh which, till then, had rendered it slow and
sometimes retrograde, the dilliculty of transmitting
ideas and of communicating them rapidly, have been
at last removed.
Indeed, among the ancients, each canton, each city,
being isolated from allothers by the diffcrence of its
languagmthe consequence was favourable to ignorance
and anarchy. There was no communication of ideas,
no participation of discoveries, no harmony of inter-
ests or of viills, no unity of action or design ; besides
theonlymeansoftransmitting.andofpropagatip_g ideas
11 2_ '
I
1,.
._'
$2 ' CHAPTER X111.
being that of speech, fugitive and limited, and that
of writing, tedious of execution, expensive and
scarce, the consequence was a hindrance of present
instruction, loss of experience from one generation
to another, instability,. retrogradation of knowledge,
and a perpetuity of confusion and childhood.
But in the modern world, especially in Europe,
great nations having allied themselves in language,
and established vast communities of opinions, the
minds of men are assimilated, and their affections
extended; there isa sympathy of opinion and an unity
. of action ; then that gift of heavenly Genius, the holy
art of printing, having furnished the means of commu
nicating in an instant the same idea to millions of
men, and of ﬁxing it in a durable manner, beyond the
power of tyrants to arrest or annihilate, there arose
amass of progressive instruction, an exp'anding at
mosphere of science, which assures to future ages
:1 solid amelioration. This amelioration is a necessary
eﬁh'ct of the laws of nature ;' for by the law of sensi
bility, man as invincibly tends to render himself happy'
as the ﬂame to mount, the stone to descend, or the
water to ﬁnd its level. His obstacle is his ignorance,
which mislcads him in the means, and deceives him
in causes and effects. He will_enlighten himself by
'experience, he will become right by dint of errors ; \
he will grow wise and good because it is his interest
so to be ; ideas being communicated through the na
tion, whole classes will gain instruction ; science
will become a vulgar possession, and all men will
know what are the principles of individual happiness
and public prosperity ! they will know the relations
they bear to society, their duties and their rights ; they
\_
’H’.
GHAPTER XIII. 83 ’‘
will learn to guard against the illusion: of the lust of
gain I they will perceive that the science of morals \
is a physical science, composed indeed of elements l’
complicated in their operation, but simple and in
variable in their nature, since they are only the ele
ments of the organization of man. They will see
the propriety of being moderate and just ; because in
that is found the advantage and security of each;
they will perceive that the Wish to enjoy at the ex
pence of another is a false calculation of ignorance ;
because it gives rise to reprisal, hatred,a.nd vengeance,
and that dishonesty is the never-failing oifspring of
folly.
Individuals will feel that private happiness is allied
to public good : I
The weak, that instead of dividing their interests;
they ought to unite them; because equality\:onsti
tutes their force :
The rich, that the measure ofenjoyment is bound,
ed by the constitution of the organs, and that lass'1
tude follows satiety :
The poor, that the employment of time, and the
/ peace of the heart compose the highest happiness of
man. And public opinion, reaching kings on their
thrones, will force them to conﬁne themselves to the
limits of regtilar authority. _\
Even chance itself, serving the cause of nations,
will sometimes give them feeble chiefs, who, through
weakness, will suffer them to become free; and
':4 CHAPTER xm.
"
sometimes enlightened chiefs, who from a pr. ciple'
of virtue will free them. "
And whenv nations, free and enlightened., shall be
come like great individuals, the whole species will
have the same facilities as particular portions have
now: the communication of knowledge will extend
from one to another, and reach the whole. By the law
of imitation the example of one people will be follow
ed by others, who will adopt its spirit and its laws.
Even despots, perceiving that they can no longer
maintain their authority without justice and beneﬁ
eence, will soften their sway from necessity, from ri
valship; and civilization will become universal..
There will be established among the several nations
an equilibrium of force, which, restraining them all
within the limits of the respect due to their recipro
cal rights, shall put an end to the barbarous practice.
of war, and submit their disputes to civil arbitration.”
The human race will become one great society, one
simple family, governed by the same spirit, by com
mon laws, and enjoying all the happiness of which
their nature is capable.
- Doubtless this great work will be long accom
plishing ; because the same movement must be given
to an immense body ; the same leaven must assimi
' What is a people ? An individual of the society at large.
What awar 2 A duel between two individual people. In what
manner ought a society to act when two ofits members ﬁght.
Interfere and reconcile, or repress them. In the days of the
Abbe de Saint-Pierre this was treated as a dream, but happi
ly for the hum.an'raee it begins to be realiied.
QHAPTER XIII. 85
late anenormous mass of heterogenons parts. But this
movement shall be effected ; its presages are already
to be seen. Already the great society, assuming in
its course the same characters as partial societies have
done, is evidently tending to a like result. At ﬁrst
disconnected in all its parts, it saw its members for a
long time without cohesion ; and this general solitude
of nations formed its ﬁrst age of anarchy and child
hood ; divided afterwards by chance into irregular
' sections, called states and kingdoms, it has experien
ced the fatal effects of an extreme inequality of wealth
and rank ; and the aristocracy of great empires has
formed its second age ; then, these lordly states dis
puting for pre-eminence, have exhibited the period
of the shock of factions.
At present the contending parties, wearied with
their discord, feel the want of laws, and sigh for the
age of order and of peace. Let but a virtuous chief
arise! a just, apowerful people appear! and the
earth will raise them to supreme power. The world
is waiting for a legislative people ; it wishes and de
mands it ; and my heart attends the cry.... Then turn
ing towards the west, Yes, continued he, a hollow
sound already strikes my ear ; a cry of liberty, pro
ceeding from far distant shores, resounds on the an
cient continent. At this cry a secret murmur against
oppression is raised in a powerful nation ; a wholesome
inquietude alarms her respecting her situation ; she
enquires what she is, and what she ought to be ; while,
surprised at her own weakness, she interrogates her
riglzts, her resources, and what has been the conduct
of her chiefs.....
iii.
86 CHAPTER XIII.
\ Yet another day, a little more reﬂection, and an im
mense agitation will begin ; a new'born age will
open ;—-an age of astonishment to vulgar minds, of
terror to tyrants, of freedom to a great nation, and of
hope to the human race,
CHAPTER XIV.
ran onan onsrncm T0 xurnovnumirr.
\
I HE Genius ceased. But pre-occupied with
melancholy thoughts, my mind resisted persuasion ;
fearing, however, to shock him_ by my resistence, Ire
mained silent. After a while, turning to me with
a look which pierced my soul: Thou art silent,
said he, and thy heart is agitated with thoughts
which it dares not utter. At last, troubled and terri
ﬁed, O Genius, said I, pardon my weakness : doubt
less thy mouth can utter nothing but truth ; but thy
celestial intelligence can seize its rays, where my
gross faculties can discern nothing but clouds. I
confess it; conviction has not penetrated my soul ;
and I feared that my doubts might offend thee.
And what is doubt, replied he, that it should be a
crime ? can man’ feel otherwise than as he is affect
ed? If a truth be palpable, and of importance .in
practice, let us pity him that misconceives it ; his
punishment will arise from his blindness. If it be
uncertain or equivocal, how is he to ﬁnd in it what it
has not ? To believe without evidence or proof, is an
act of ignorance and folly. The credulous man loses~
himself ina labyrinth of contradictions ; the man of
as CHAPTER xiv;
sense examines and discusses, that he may be consist
ent in his opinions. The honest man will bear con
tradiction; because it gives rise to evidence. Vio
lence is the argument of falsehood ; and to impose a
creed by authority'is the act and index of a tyrant.
Encouraged by these words; 0 Genius, said I,
.since my reason is free, I strive in vain to entertain
the ﬂattering hope with which you endeavour to con
sole me. The sensible and virtuous soul is easily
caught with dreams of happiness; but a cruel reality
constantly awakens it to suffering and wretchedness.
The more I meditate on the nature of man, the more
I examine the present state of societies, the less pos
sible it appears to realize a world of wisdom and feli
city. l cast my eye over the whole of our hemis
phere; l perceive in no place the germ, nor do I
foresee the instinctive energy of a happy revolution.
All Asia lies buried in profound darkness. The
Chinese,governed by an insolent despotisun‘,by strokes
of bamboo and the cast of lots, restrained by an im
mutable code of gestures, and by the radical vices of
' * The emperor of China calls himself the son of heaven;
that is, of God : for in the opinion of the Chinese, the mate
rial of heaven, the arbiter of fatality, is the Deity himself.
“ The emperor only shows himself once in ten months, lest
the people, accustomed to see him, might lose their respect;
for he holds it as a maxim, that power can only be supported
by force, that the people have no idea of justice, and are not
to be governed but by coercion.” Narrative oftwo Mahome
tan travellers in 851 and 877, translatedby the Abbe Renau
dot in 1718.
Notwithstanding what is asserted by the missionaries, this
situation has undergone no change. The bamboo still reigns
in China, and the son of heaven bastinades, for the most tri
CHAPTER XIV. 8’
,
an ill-constructed languageﬁ discover in their abor
tive civilization nothing but a race of machines. The
Indian, borne down by prejudices, and enchained in
the sacred fetters of his casts, vegetates in an incura
ble apathy. The Tartar, wandering or ﬁxed, always
ignorant and ferocious, lives in the savageness of his
ancestors. The Arab, endowed with a happy genius,’
loses its force and the fruits of his virtue in the anar
chy of his tribes and the jealousy of his families. The
African, degraded from the rank of man, seems irre
vocably doomed to servitude. In the North I see no
thing but viliﬁed serfs, herds of men with which the
landlords stock theirestates. Ignorance, tyranny, and
wretchedness have every where stupiﬁed the nations;
and vicious habits, depraving the natural senses, have
destroyed the very instinct ofhappiness and of truth.
In some parts of Europe, indeed, reason has be
gun to rise. But even there, do nations partake of the
knowledge of individuals ? are the talents and genius
of governors turned to the beneﬁt ofthe people ? And
vial fault, the "Mandarin, who in his turn bastinades the peo.
ple. The Jesuits may tell us that this is the best govemed.
country in the world, and its inhabitants the happiest ofmen r
but a single letter from Amyot has convinced me that Chim
_ is atruly Turkish government, and the account ofSonnerat
conﬁrms it. See Vol. II. of Voyage aux 1m/es, in 4to.
* As long as the Chinese shall in writing make use of their
present characters, they can be expected to make no progress
in civilization. The neceasaryintroductory step must be the
giving them an alphabet like our own, or the substituting in
the room of their language that of the Tartars : the improve.
ment made in the latter by M. de Lengles, is calculated to
. introduce this change. See the'Mantchou alphabet, the pro
duction of a mind truly learned in the formation oflanguage
. I
Huh
_o
t
JX ET Vern 2 Ma.
___!Q*__- CHAPTER XIV.
call themselves polished, are they
*Wmm€m' the last three centuries have ﬁll
ed the earth with their injustice ? Are they not those
who, under the pretext of commerce, have desolated
India, dispeopled a new continent, and subject Africa
at present to the most barbarous slavery ? Can liberty
be’born from the bosom of despots ? and shall justice
be rendered by the hands of piracy and avarice ? O
Genius, I have seen the civilized countries ; and the
mockery of their wisdom has vanished before my
sight. I saw wealth accumulated in the hands of a few,
and the multitude poor and destitute. I have seen all
rights, all powers concentred in certain classes, and
the mass ofthe people passive and dependent. I have
seen families of princes, but no families of the nation ;
I have seen government interest, but no public inter
est or spirit ; I have seen that all the science of go
vernment was to oppress prudently ; and the reﬁned
servitude of polished nations appeared to me only the
more irremediable.
One obstacle above all has profoundly struck my
mind. On looking over the world, I have seen it
divided into twenty diffcrent systems of religion.
Every nation has received, or formed, opposite
opinions ; and every one ascribing to itself the exciti
sive possession of the truth,must believe the other to
be wrong. Now if, as thefact must be in this dis
cordance of opinion, the greater part are in an error,
and are honest in it, then it follows that our mind
embraces falsehood as it does truth ; and if so, how
is it to be enlightened ? when prejudice has once
seized the mind, how is it to be dissipated ? How
shall we remove the bandage from our eyes, when
r\'‘ ._~_ D .
CHAPTER XIV. Bf "
religion, is the absolute proscription of doubt, the
interdiction of examination, and the rejection of. our
own judgment? How istruth to make herself known 2 i
if she resorts to arguments and proofs, timid man
stiﬂes the voice of his own coﬁcience-, if she invokes
the authority of celestial powers, he opposes it with
another authority ofthe same origin, with which he
is pre-occupied ; and he treats all innovation as blas
phemy. Thus man in his blindness has rivetted his \
own chains, and surrendered himself for ever, without
defence, to the sport ofhis ignorancevand his passions.
To dissolve such futﬂi chains a miraculous concur
rence of happy circumstances would be necessary. A
whole nation, cured of the delirium of superstition,
must be inaccessible to the imp.ulse of fanaticism;
freed from the yoke of false doctrine, a whole people
must impose upon itselfthat of true morality and rea
son; this people should be courageous and prudent,
Wise and docile ; each individual, knowing his rights,
should not transgress them ; the poor should know
to resist seduction, and the rich the allurements of
avarice ; there should be found leaders disinterested
and just ; and their tyrants should be seized with 'a
spirit of madness and fully. This people, recovering
its rights, should feel its inability to exercise them in
person, and should name its representatives ; creator
of its niagisti'ates, it should know at once to pspect
them and to judge them ; in the sudden reform of a
whole nation, accustomed to live by abuses, each in
dividual displaced should bear with patience his pri
vations, and submit to a change of habits ; this nation
' 4
the ﬁrst article in every creed, the_ﬁrst d_o_grnain all j
1'
_--l'
.should have the courage to conquer its liberty, the
power to defend it, the wisdom to establish it, and the
9; ' CHAPTER XIV.
generosity to extend it to others. And can we ever:
expect the union ofso many circumstances ? But sup
pose that chance in its inﬁnite combinations should
produce them, shall I see those fortunate days ? will
not my ashes long ere then be cold ?
\ Here, sunk in sorrow, my heart suppressed my
speech. The Genius answered not ; but I heard hirn
nhisper to himself: Let us revive the hope of this
man; for if he who loves his fellow creatures be
suffered to despair, what will become of nations ?
The past is perhaps too discouraging; let us then
disclose to the eye of virtue the astonishing age that
is ready to begin; that, on viewing the object she de
sires, she may be animated with new ardour, and re»
. double her efforts to attain it.
CHAPTER XV.
THE NEw non.
S CARCELY had he ﬁnished these words, whena
great noise arose in the west ; and turning to that
quarter, Iperceived, at the extremity ofthe Mediter
ranean, in one of the nations of Europe, a prodigious
movement ; such as, when a violent sedition arises
in a vast city, a numberless people, rushing in all
directions, pour through the streets and ﬂuctuate
like waves in the public places.' My car, struck
with the cries which resounded to the heavens, dis
tiugu.ished these words :
What then is this new prodigy ! we are a numer
.ous people, and we want hands ! we have an excel
lent soil, and we are in want of its produce ! we are
active and laborious, and we live in indigence ! we
pay enormous tributes, and we are told they are not
suﬁicient ! we are at peace without, and our persons
and property are not safe within! who then is the
v secret enemy that devours us ?
Some voices from the midst of the multitude re~
pliedlitaise a discriminating standard; and let all_
those who maintain and nourish mankind by useﬁ.I].
12
\
94- CHAPTER XV.
labours gather round it; and you will discover the
enemy that preys upon you.
)The standard being raised, this nation divided it
self at once into two bodies of unequal magnitude and
contrasted appearance. The one innumerable, and al
most total, exhibited in the general poverty of its
clothing, in its meagre air and sun-burnt faces, the
marks of misery and labour; the other, a little group,
an insigniﬁcant fraction, presented in its rich attire,
embroidered with gold and silver', and in its round
and ruddy faces, the signs of leisure and abundance.
Considering these men more attentively, I_ found that
the great body was composed of farmers, artiﬁcers,
merchants, all professions useful to society ; and that
the little group was ﬂlude up ofpriests of every order,
ofﬁnanciers, of nobles, of men in livery, of command
ers of armies ; in a word, of the civil, military, and
Tcligious agents of government.
These two bodies being assembled face to face,
and regarding each other with astonishment,I saw in
dignation and rage arising in one side, and a sort of
panic in the other. And the large body said to the
little one :
:
Why are you separated from us? are you not of
our number? No, replied the group ; you are the
people; we are a distinguished class, who have our
laws, customs, and rights, peculiar to ourselves
Peojile.
And what labour do you perform in our society 2
',-.
CHAPTER XV. Q,.3
Privileged Class'.
None, we are not made to work.
Peojile.
How then have you acquired these riches
Privileged Clash.
By taking the pains to govern you.
. Pa'ojile.
What ! is this what you call governing? we toil,
and you enjoy; we produce,and you dissipate; wealth
proceeds from us, and youabsorb it. Privileged men!
class who are not the people ; form a nation, apart,
and govern yourselves’*.
Then the little group deliberating on this new
state of things, some of them said : We must join
the people and partake of their labours and burthens,
for they are men like us ; others said : lt would be a
' The dialogue between the people and the indolent classes,
is applicable to every society; it contains the seeds of all
the political vices and disorders that prevail, and which may
thus be deﬁned ; men who do nothing, and whodevour the sub
stance of others ; and men who arrogate to themselves par
ticular rights and exclusive privileges of wealth and indo
lence. Compare the Mamluuks of Egypt, and the nobility of
Europe, the Nairs of India, the Emirs of Arabia, the patri
eians oi'Rome, the Christian clergy, the Imans, the Brarnins,
the Bonzes, the Lamas, etc. etc. and you w.ll ﬁnd in all the
the same ch..rtieteristic feature.-“ Men living in idleness at
the expence of those who labour.”
96 CHAPTER ’XV.
iv”
shame, an infamy, for us to mingle with the crowd ;
they are born to serve us; we are men of another
race. And the civil governors said : These people
are mild, and naturally servile ; speak to them of the
king and of the law, and they will return to their
duty. People I the king wills, the sovereign or
dains !
Pea/ile.
The king can will nothing’ but the good of the peo—
ple ; the sovereign can only ordain according to law.
Civil Governors.
The law commands you to be submissive.
Peojile.
The law is the general will: and we will a new
order.of things.
Civil Ga'vernare.
You are then arebel people.
Pcojila
A nation cannot revolt ; tyrants only are rebels.
Civil .Go‘uemon.
The king is on our side ; he commands you tosulr
mit..
CHAPTER XV. '
Pea/1le.
Kings are inseparable from their nations. The
king ofours cannot be with you ; you possess only his
phantom.
And the military governors came forward: The
people are timorous, said they; we must threaten
them; they will submit only to force. Soldiers,
chastise this insolent multitude !
Pea/ile.
Soldiers, you are of our blood; will you strike your
brothers 2 if the people perish, who will nourish
the army ?
And the soldiers grounding their arms, said to
their chiefs, we are likewise the people; show us the
enemy. s
\
\ Then the ecclesiastical governors said : there
is but one resource left. The people are supersti
tious ; we must frighten them with the names ofGod
and religion.
Our dear brothers! Our children! God has or
dained us to govern you.
Pmjile.
Show us your powers from God.
98 CHAPTER XV.
Priests.
You must have faith ; reason leads astra'y.
Peojilc.
Do you govern without reason ?
Priests.
God commands peace. Religion prescribes obe
dience.
Projile.
Peace supposes justice. Obedience implies?
aknowledge of the law.
Pricele
Suffering is the business of this world;
Projlle.
Show us the example.
Priests.
¥V0uld you live without gods or kings.
Peojde.
_‘- _ We would live without tyrants.
PriesIs..
You musthave mediators, intercessors.
CHAPTER xv. 59 _
Pea/ile.
Mediators with God, and with the king ! Courtiers
and priests, your services are too expensive ; we will
henceforth manage.our own affairs.
.And the little group said: We are lost; the mul
titude are enlightened.
And the people said : You are safe ; since we are
enlightened, we will do no violence ; we only claim
our rights. We feel resentments ; but we forget
them. We Were slaves, we might command; but
We only wish to be free, and we are free.
CHAPTER XVL
A. FREE AND LEGISLATIVE PEOPLEr
D
ONSIDERING now that all public power was
suspended, and that the habitual restraint of the peo
ple had suddenly ceased, 1 shuddered with the appre
hension that they would fall into the dissolution of
anarchy. But, taking their affairs into immediate de
liberation, they said :
It is not enough that we have freed ourselves from
tyrants and parasites ; we must prevent their return.
We are men ', and experience has abundantly taught
us that every man is fond 'bf power, and wishes to
enjoy at the expense of others. lt is necessary then
to guard against a propensity which is the source of
discord ; we must establish certain rules of duty and
of right. But the knowledge of our rights and the
estimation of our duties are so abstract and diﬂicult
as to require all the time and all the faculties of a man.
Occupied in our own aii"ai1's, we have not leisure for
these studies ; nor can we exercise these functions
in our own persons. Let us choose then among our
selves such persons as are capable of this employ
ment. To them we will delegate our powers to in
stitute our government and laws; they shall be the
CHAPTER XVI. 101
V
’V’;
representatives of our Wills and of our interests.
And in order to attain. the fairest representation
possible of our wills and our interests, let it be nu
merous, and composed of men resembling ourselves.
Having made the election of a numerous body’ of
delegates, the people thus addressed them : VVe
have hitherto lived in a society formed by chance,
without ﬁxed agreements, without free conventions,
without a stipulation of rights, without reciprocal
engagements ; and a multitude ofdisorders and evils
have arisen from this precarious state. We are
now determined on forming a regular compact; and
we have chosen you to adjust the articles. Examine
then with care what ought to be its basis and its con
ditions ; considerwhat is the end and the principles
of every association ; recognize the" rights which
every member brings, the powers which he gives
up, and those which he reserves to himself. Point
out to us the rules of conduct, and equitable laws.
Prepare us a new syste .g'oA[_‘nent ; for we feel
the one which has hi 0 guided us is corrupt.
Our fathers have wandered in the paths of ignorance ;
and habit has taught us to stray after them. Every
thing has been done by fraud, violence, and delusion ;
and the true laws of morality and reason are still ob
scure. Clear up then their chaos; trace out their
connexion; publish their code, and we will adopt it.
And the people raised a throne, in form of a pyra
mid, and seating on it the men they had chosen, sax’
to them : \Ve raise you to-day above us, that you
may better discover the whole ofour relations, and be
above the reach of our passions. But rememberétliat
o-”
K it
102 CHAPTER XVI.
..1
you are our fellows; that the power we confer on you
is our own ; that we deposit it with you, not as a pro
perty or a heritage; that you must be the ﬁrst to
obey the laws you make; that to-morrow you re
descend among us, and that you will have acquired no
other right but that of our esteem and gratitude. And
reﬂect what tribute of glory the world, which re
veres so many apostles of error, will bestow on the
ﬁrst assembly of rational men, who shall have de-
clared the unchangeable principles of justice, and
consecratedin the face of tyrants the rights of na
trons.
“
O ’ .
.' I ’;
4'
l&3-
‘f-'
I
. 1 .
coy
:/ 5.3'
~
-
‘Q
CHAPTER XVIL
USlVEl\SAL BASIS OF ALL RIGHT AND ALL LAW
' TIIE men chosen by the people to investigate the
true principles of morals and ofreason, then proceed
ed in the sacred objects of their mission; and, after a
long examination, having discovered a fundam ntal
and universal principle, a Lawgim arose, and s d to
she people : Here is the primordial basis, the physi
cal origin of all justice and of alkright.
H . .
Whatever be the actiye xerﬂlie inoving cause,
that governs the universe, 5' e i‘ Zhiis ‘given to all
men the same organs, the same sensations, and the
same wants, it has thereby declared tl'1at‘it has given
to all the same right to the use iii' its treasuwgialid
that all men are equal in;the order‘ ’ hre. ' "
' i -. ._'
\ Secondly, since this power has given each man
the necessary means ofpreserving his_own existe‘,
it is evident that it constituted them all independ
ent one of an_ ' r; that it iraSCr(?2\t€d’¢lLt1'gn~fl'CC ;
that no one is*'aubject to another; that '€aC?}ne is
absolute proprietor of his own pirson. '
..n. "if
104 CHAPTER XVII.
Equality and Liberty are therefore two essential
attributes of man, two laws of the Divinity, consti
tutional and unchangeable, like the physical proper
ties of matter.
Now, every individual being absolute master of
his own person, it follows that a full and free consent
is a condition indespensable to all. contracts a.nd all
engagements.
Again, since each individual is equal to anothm-,it
follows that the balance of what is received and of
what is givén should be strictly in equilibrium ; so
that the idea of justice, of equity, necessarily imports
that of equality*.
\' Therefore, equality and liberty are the physical
andunstlterablebasis of every union of men in society,
and of course the necessary and generating prin
ciple ofevery law .and of every system of regular
governmenﬁ. . ' ' ' '
4 The etymology of tlilfwords themselves trace out to us
this connection : equi1ibriu1r_1:!’equali';as, equitas, are all of one
family, and the physlal of equality, in the scales. of a.
balance, is the source and type of all the rest.
'flu the Declaration of Rights, there is an inversion of
ideas in’the ﬁi'st article, liberty being placed before equali
_ ty, froin which it in reality springs. This defect is not to be
‘tmndered :$e‘iAce of the rights of man is a new
science : it ‘ . wentcd yesterday by the Americans, today
the .French ’are perfecting it, but there yet remains a great
(l.to be done. In the ideas that constitute it there is a
genealogical order which, from its asis, physical equality,
to the minutest and most remote brancl1c§*of government,
ought _ ' oceed in an uninterrupted series of inferences
This be demonstmd in the second part of this work.
'0 ft
_ CHAPTER xvu. ' 105
Adisregard of this basis has introduced in your
nation, and in every other, those disorders which
have ﬁnally roused you. It is by returning to this
rule that you may reform them, and re-organize a
happy order of society.
But observe ; this re-organization will occasion a
violent shock in your habits,your fortunes, and your
prejudices. Vicious contracts and abusive claims
must be dissolved, unjust distinctions and ill founded _
property renounced; indeed you must recur for a’
moment to a state of nature Consider whether you
can consent to so many sacriﬁces.
Then, reﬂecting on the cupidity inherent in the
heart of man,I thought that this people would re
nounce all ideas of amelioration.
But, in a moment, a great number ofmcn, advanc
ing toward the pyramid, made a solemn abjuration of
all their distinctions and all their riches. Establish
for us, said they, the laws of equality and liberty ; we
will possess nothing in future but on the title of jus
tice. Equality, liberty, justice, these shall be our
code, and be written on our standard.
And the people immediately raised a great stand- '
ard, inscribed with these three words, in three diﬁ'cr- .
ent colours. They displayed it over the pyramid of
the legislators ; and for the ﬁrst time tlie'ﬁag of uni
Versal justice ﬂoated on the face of the earth. And
the people raised before the pyramid a new altar, a
sword, and abook with this inscription : To egi:a-’
Zwi:/, ’w/tic/; judges andjirotrrts.
K 2
106 ' CHAPTER XVII.
And having surrounded the pyramid and the altar
with a Vast amphitheatre, all the nation took their
seats to hear the publication of the law. And mil;
lions of men, raising at once their hands to heaven,
took the solemn oath to live equal, free and just ; to
respect their reéiprocal properties and rights, to obey
the law, and its ministers regularly chosen.
A spectacle, so forceful and sublime, so replete
with generous emotions, moved me to tears. And ad
dressing myselfto the Genius : Let me now live, said
I', for in future I have every thing to hope,
CHAPTER XVIII.
ooxsrenmrzox arm consrmacr or TYRANT5.
BUT scarcely had the solemn voice of liberty and
equality resounded through the earth, when a move
lnent of confusion, of astonishment, arose in differ
ent nations. On the one hand the people, warmed
with desire, but wavering between hope and fear, be
tween the sentiment of right and the habit of oppres
sion, began to be in motion; the kings, on the other:
hand, suddenly awakened from the sleep of indolence
and despotism, were alarmed for the safety of their
thrones; while on all sides, those clans of civil and
religious tyrants, who deceive the king and oppress
the .peopie, were seized with rage and consternation ;
and, concerting their perﬁdious plans ; VV0 to us,
said they, if this fatal cry of liberty comes to the cars
of the multitude ! we to us if this pernicious spirit
of justice be propagated ! Conceive, said they, what
a swarm of evils are included in those three words !
.If all men are equal, where is our exclusive right to
honours and to powers ? If all men are to be free,
what becomes of our slaves, our vassals, our proper
ty? If all are equal in the civil state, where is our
prerogative of birth, of inheritance ? what becomes
of nobility ? If they are all equal in the sight ofGod,
\\.
108 CHAPTER XVIII.
.what need of mediators? where is the priesthood?
Let us hasten then to destroy a germ so proliﬁc,
and so contagious. We must employ all our cunning
against this calamity. We must frighten the kings,
that they may join us in the cause. We must divide
the people by national jealousies, and occupy them
with commotions, wars, battles, and conquests. They
must be alarmed at the power of this free nation.
\Let us form a league against the common enemy,
demolish that sacrilegious standard, overturn that
throne of rebellion, and stiﬂe the ﬂame of rcvolution
in its birth. '
And, indeed, the tyrants of nations, civil and re
Iigious, formed a general combination ; and multi-_
plying their followers by force and by seduction, they
marched in hostile array against the free nation ;
and, surrounding the altar and the pyramid of natural
law, they demanded with loud cries : What is this
new and heretical doctrine ? what this impious altar,
this sacrilegious worship ?... True believers, and
loyal subjects ! does it not seem that truth has been
ﬁrst discovered to day ? and that hitherto you have
been walking in error ? that those men, more lucky
than you, have the sole privilege of wisdom ?...
And you, rebel and misguided nation, perceive you
not that your leaders are deceiving you ? that they
destroy the principles of your faith, and overturn the
religion of your fathers ? Ah ! tremble, lest the
wrath of heaven should kindle against you ; andhasten_
by speedy repentance to retrieve your error.
But, inaccessible to seduction as well as to fear,
the free nation kept silence ; and rising universally
in arms, she held an imposing attitude.
CHAPTER XVIII. M19
And the Lawgiver said to the chiefs of the other
nations : if while we walked with a bandage on our 'Y;
eyes the light guided our steps, why, since -we are no
longer blinded, should it ﬂy from our search ! If
guides, who teach mankind to see for themselves,
mislead and deceive them, what is to be expected
from those who profess to keep them in darkness ?
But hark, ye leaders of nations ! if ye possess the
truth, let us know it ; we will receive it with grati
tude, for we seek it with ardour, and have a great in
terest in ﬁnding it. We are men, and liable to be
deceived ; but . you are also men, and equally
fallible. Aid us then in this labyrinth, where the hu-
man race has wandered for so many ages ; help us
to dissipate the illusion of so many prejudices and
vicious habits. Amid the shocleof so many opinions \l
which dispute for our acceptance, assist us in disco'- 2
vering the proper and distinctive character of truth.
Let us terminate this day the long combat of error.
Let us establish between it and truth a solemn con
test ; to which we will invite the opinions of men
of all nations. "Let us convoke a general assembly
of the nations; let them be judges in their own cause;
and in the debate of all systems, let no champion, no
argument be wanting either on the side of prejudice
or of reason ; and let the sentiment of a general and
common mass of evidence give birth to R univemj
.concord of opinions and of hearts.
GHAPTER XIX.
GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE NATIONS.
THUS spoke the Lawgiver. And the multidude,
seized with those emotions which a reasonable pro
position always inspires, expressed its applause;
while the tyrants, left without support, were over
whelmed with confusion. -
\ A scene of a new and astonishing nature then
opened to my view. All that the earth contains of
people and of nations; men of every race and of every
region, converging from their various climates,
seemed to assemble in one allotted place; where,
forming an immense congress, distinguished in
groups by the vast variety of their dresses, features
of face, and colours of skin, the numberless multi
tude presented a most unusual and atfecting sig'ht.
On one side I saw the European, with his short
close coat, three cornered hat, smooth chin, and hair
whitened with powder; on the other side the Asiatic,
with a ﬂowing robe, long beard, shaved head, and
round turban; here stood the nations of Africa, with
their ebony skins, their wooly hair, their body girt
with tissues of bark white and blue, adorned with
bracelets and necklaces of coral, shells and glass;
CHAPTER XIX. 1 ll
there the tribes of the North, enveloped intheir lea
thern bags; the Laplander with his pointed bonnet
and his snow-shoes; the Samoyede with his feverish
body and his strong odour; the Tongouse with his
horned cap, and carrying his idols pendant from his
neck ; the Yakoute with his freckled face ; the Cal
mouk with his ﬂat nose and his little retorted eyes.
Farther distant were the Chinese, attired in silk, with
their hair hanging in tresses ; the Japanese of ming
led race ; the Malayans with wide-spreading ears,
rings in their noses, and palm-leaf hats of vast cir
cumference* ; and the tatooed races of the isles of
the southern ocean and of the continent ofthc Anti
pode's.1. The view of so many varieties of the same
species, ofso many extravagant inventions of the same
understanding, and of so many modiﬁcations of the
same organization, affected me with a thousand feel
ings and a thousand thoughtsi I contemplated with
* This species of the palm'tree is called Latanier. Its leaf',
similar to a fan'mount, grows upon a stalk issuing directly
item the earth. A specimen may be seen in the botanic
garden. '
1 The country ofthe Pafione, or New Guinea.
s A hall of costumes in one of the galleries ofthe Louvre,
ould in every point of view he an interesting establishment :
it would furnish an admirable treat to the curiosity of a great
number ofmen, excellent models to the artist, and useful sub
jects of meditation to the physician, the philosopher, and the
legislator. Picture to yourself a collection of the various
faces and ﬁgures ofevery country and nation, exhibiting ac
curately colour, features, and form : what a ﬁeld for investi
gation and enquiry as to the inﬂuence of climate, manners,
aliment, etc. ! It might truly be stiled the science of man !
Btlffon has attempted achapter of this nature, but it only
I
U2 cmrrnn XIX.’
astonishment this gradation of colour, which passing
from a bright carnation to alight brown, a deeper
brown, smoky, bronze, olive, leaden, copper, ends in
the black ofebony and ofjet. And ﬁnding the Cassi
merian with his rosy cheek, next to the sun-burnt
Hindoo ; and the Georgian by the side of the Tartar,
I reﬂected on the effects of climate cold or hot, of
soil high or low, marshy or dry, open or shaded ; I
compared the dwarf of the pole with the giant of the
temperate zones, the slender body of the Arab with
the ample chest of the Hollander, the squat ﬁgure of
the Samoyede with the elegant form of the Greek
and the Sclavonian, the greasy black wool of the
Negro with the bright silken locks of the Dane ; the
ﬂat face of the Calmouk, his little angular eyes, and
his nose crushed in, with the oval prominent visage,
large blue eyes, and aquiline nose of the Circassian
and the Abazan. I contrasted the brilliant calicoes of
the Indian, the well-wrought stuffs ofthe European,
the rich furs of the Siberian, with the tissues of bark,
of osiers, leaves and feathers of savage nations ; and
the blue ﬁgures of serpents, ﬂowers, and stars, with
\Yl'1lCl1 they painted their bodies. Sometimes the va
riegated appearance of this multitude reminded me
ofthe enamelled meadows of the Nile and ofthe Eu
phrates; when, after rains or inundations, millions of
ﬂowers are rising on every side : sometimes their
murmurs and their motions called to mind the num-.
serves to exhibit more strikingly our actual ignorance. Such
22. collection, itis saitl, is begun at Petersburg, but it is said at
the same time to be as imperfect as the vocabulary ofthe
three hundred languages. The euterprize would be worthy
ofthe French nation. .
CHAPTER XIX. a 1;
iaﬁrless swarms of grasshoppers which cover in tin
spring the plains of Hauran.
At the sight of so many rational beings, consider
ing on the one hand the immensity of thoughts and
sensations assembled in this place ; and on the other
.hand, reﬂecting on the opposition of so many opin
ions, and the shock of so many passions of men so
capricious, I struggled between astonishment, admi
ration, and secret drea_d.... when the Lawgiver com
manded silence, and attracted all my attention.
\ Inhabitants of tlie earth, a free and powerful na
tion addresses you the words of justice and ofpeace ;
and she offers you the sure pledges of her intentions
in her own conviction and experience. Long aliiict
ed with the same evils as yourselves, we sought for
their source; and we found them all derived from
violence and injustice, erected into law by the inex
perience of past ages, and maintained by the preju
dices of the present. Then abolishing our artiﬁcial
and arbitrary institutions, and recurring to the ori- ’'
gin of all right and of all reason, we have found that
there existed in the very order ofnature and in the
physical constitution of man, eternal and immutable
laws, which only waited his observance to render
_him happy. 0 men ! cast your eyes on the heavens
that give you light, and on the earth that gives you
bread ! Since they offer the same bounties to you all ;
since from the power that gives them motion you
have all received the same life, the same organs;
have you not likewise all received the same right to
enjoy its beneﬁts ? Has it not hereby declared you
all equal and free 3 what mortal shall dare refuse to
L 55" .
l lat CHAPTER XIX.
his fellow that which nature gives him ? O nations ’.
let us banish all tyranny and all discord; let us form ~
but one society, one great family ; and, since human
nature has but one constitution, let there exist in fu
ture but one law, that of nature ; but one code, that
of reason; but one throne, that of justice ; but one
altar, that of union.
\ He ceased; and an immense acclamation resound
ed to the skies. Ten thousand benedictions announ
ced the transports of the multitude ; and they made
the earth re'echo justice, equality and union. But
dif.l'crcnt emotions soon succeeded; soon the doctors
and the chiefs of nations exciting a spirit ofdispute,
there was heard a sullen murmur, which growing
louder, and spreading from group to group, became
a vast disorder, and each nation setting up exclusive
pretensions, claimed a preference for its own opinion.
You are in error, said the parties, pointing one to
the other; we alone are in possession of reason and
truth. ¥Ve alone have the true law, the real rule of
right and justice, the only means of happinessand
perfectiom All othcrmen are either blind or rebel
lious. And a great agitation prevailed.
But the Lawgiver having ordered silence : People,
said he, what is that passionate emotion? \Vhither
will that quarrel conduct you? What can you ex
pect from this dissention? The earth has been for
' ages a ﬁeld of disputation; and you have shed tor
rents of blood in your controversies. \Vhat have you
gained by so many battles and tears? When the
st1'onf; has subjected the ‘weak to his opinion, has he
CHAPTER XIX. I 1.3
thereby aided the cause of truth ? O nations, take
counsel of your own wisdom. When among your#
selves disputes arise between families and individuals,'
how do you reconcile them ? Do you not give them
arbitrators ? Yea, cried the whole multitude. D0
so then to the authors of your present dissentions.
Order those who call themselves your instructors,
and who force their ereeds upon you, to discuss be
fore you their reasons. Since they appeal to your in
terests, inform yourselves how they support them.
And you, chiefs and doctors of the people, before
dragging them into the quarrels of your opinions, let
the reasons for and against them be discussed. Let.
us establish one solemn controversy, one public
scrutiny of truth, not before the tribunal ofa corrupt
ible individual, or a prejudiced party, but in the
forum of mankind, presided by all their information
and all their interests. Let the natural sense of the
whole human race be our arbiter and judge.
(’,'vHAP’I"ER XX,
ran SEARCH 01'. 'rRU'rB.
\THE people expressed their applause, and the
Lawgihzr continued: To proceed with order, and
avoid all confusion, let a spacious semi-circle be left
vacant in front of the altar of peace and union ; let
each system of religion, and each particular sect,
erect its proper distinctive standard on the line of
this semi-circle ; let its chiefs and doctorsplaee them
selves around the standard, and their followers form
a column behind them.
The semi-circle being traced, and the order pub'
lished, there instantly rose an innumerable multitude
of standards, of all colours artl of every form, like
what we see in a great commercial port, when, on a
day ofrejoicing,athousand different ﬂags and stream
ers are ﬂoating from aforest of masts. At sight of
this prodigious diversity,turning towards the Genius;
I thought, said I, that the earth was divided only into
eight or ten .systems of faith, and I then despaired
of areconciliation; Inow behold thousands of dif
ferent sects, and how can I hope for concord ? But
these, replied the Genius, are not all 5 and yet they
will be intolerant !....
CHAPTER XX. 1 17
Then, as the groups advancedto take their stations,
he pointed out to me their distinctive marks, and thus
began to explain their characters.
That ﬁrst group, said he, witha green banner,bear
ing a crescent, a bandage, and a sabre, are the fol
lowers of the Arabian Prophet. To say there is a
God (without knowing what he is) ; to believe the
*wo1'dsof a man(without understanding his language);
to go into the desert to jiray to God (who is every
where) ; to wash the hands with water (and not ab
stain from blood); toﬁiet all day (and eat all night);
to give alme of their own goods (and to plunder those
of others); such are the means of perfection insti
tuted by Mahomet ; such are the symbols of his fol
lowers; and whoever does not bear them is a reprobate,
stricken with anathema, and devoted to the sword.
A God of clemency, the author of life, has instituted
these laws of oppression and murder ; he made them
for all the world, but has revealed them only to one
man ; he established them from all eternity, though
he made them known but yesterday. These laws are
abundantly suﬁicient for all purposes,and yet a volume
is added to them. This volume was to diffuse
light, to exhibit evidence, to lead men to perfection
and happiness ; and yet every page was so full of ob
ecurities, ambiguities, and contradictions, that com
mentaries and explanationsbecame necessary, even
in the life-time of its apostle. Its interpreters, dif
fering in opinion, divides} into opposite and hostile
sects. One maintains that.Aliiis the true successor;
the other contends for Omar and Aboubehre. This
denies the eternity of the Koran ;' that the necessity
of ablutions and prayers. The €_armite forbids pil—.
I- Q .*.’_’’¥"n'._
1 i8 CHAPTER XX.
grimages, and allows the use ofwine ; the Hakemite
preaches the transmigration of souls. Thus they
go to the number of seventy-two sects, of which
you may count the '.'banners*. In this contes
tation, every one attributing the evidence of truth
exclusively to himself, and taxing all others with
heresy and rebellion, turns against them its sanguin
. any zeal. And their religion, which celebrates a mild
and merciful God, the common father of all men,
converted to a torch of discord, assigns] for war and
murder, has not ceased for twelve hundred years to
deluge the earth in blood, and to ravage and desolate
the ancient hemisphere from one end to the other.-{=
Those men, distinguishedby their enormous white
turbans, their broad sleeves, and their long rosaries,
are the Imans, the Mollas, and the Muftis ; and near
them are the Dervishes with pointed bonnets, and
the Santons with scattering hair. Behold with what
vehemence they receive their professions of faith 1
They are now b ginnin g adispute about the greater
and smaller impurities; about the matter and the
manner of ablutions; about the attributes of God»
* The Mussulmen enumerate in common seventy'two sects :
but I read, while I resided among them, a work which gave an
account of more than eighty, all equally wise and importanti
‘ f Read the history of lslamism by its own writers, and you
will be convinced that one ofthe principal causes of the wars
which have dcsolnted Asia and Africa, since the days of
Mahomet, has been the apostolical fanaticism of its doctrine.
Glesar has been supposed to have destroyed three millions oi’
men : it would be interesting to make a similar calculation
respecting every founder of a religious system.
QHAPTER XX. 119
and his perfections ; about the Chaitan, and the good
and the wicked angels ; about death, the resurrec
tion, the interrogatory in the tomb, the judgment, the
passage of the narrow bridge not broader than a hair,
the balance of works, the pains of hell, and the joys
of paradise.
Next to these, that second more numerous group,
ﬁvith white banners intersected with crosses, are
the followers of Jesus. Acknowledging the same
God with the Mussulmen, founding their belief on
the same books, admitting, like them, a ﬁrst man who
lost the human race by eating an apple, they hold
them, however in a'holy abhorrence ; and, out of pure
piety, they call each other impious blasphemers.
The great point of their dissention consists in this,
that after admitting a God one and indivistble, the
Christian divides him into three persons, each of
which he insists on being a complete and entire God,
without ceasing to constitute but one alone, by the
indivisibility ofthe three. And he adds, that this being,
who ﬁlls the universe, has reduced himself to the
body of a man ; and has assumed material, perishable,
and limited organs, without ceasingto be immaterial,
inﬁnite, and eternal. The Mussulman, who does
not comprehend these mysteries, treats them as fol-'
lies, and the visions of a distempered brain ; though
he conceives perfectly well the eternity of the Koran,
and the vnissiotiof the prophet :‘ hence their impla.
.cable hatreds.. "'
Again, the Christians, divided among tliemsel.ve_s
on many points, have formed parties not less violent
.than the Mllssulmen ;.and their quarrels are so mush
‘£20 CHAPTER XX.
the more obstinate, as the objects of them are inao
cessible to the senses, and incapable of demonstra
tion ; their opinions, therefore, have no other basis
but the will and caprice of the parties. Thus, while
they agree that God is a being incomprehensible and
unknown, they dispute, nevertheless, about his es.
sence, his mode of acting, and his attributes. While
they agree that his pretended transformation into
man is an enigma above the human understanding,
they dispute on the junction or distinction of his two
wills and his two natures, on his change of substance,
on the real or ﬁctitious presence, on the mode of in
carnation, etc.
Hence those innumerable sects, of which two or
three hundred have already perished, and three or
four hundred others, which still subsist, display thosev
numberless banners which here distract your sight.
The ﬁrst in order, surrounded by a group in va
rious fantastic dress, that confused mixture of vid
let, red, white, black, speckled ; with heads shaved,
or with tonsures, or with short hair; with red hats,
square bonnets, pointed mitres, or long beards, is the
standard of the Roman pontiff ; who, uniting the civil
government to the priesthood, has erected the su
premacy of his city into a point of religion, and made.
of his pride an article of faith. ~
On his right you see the Greek pontiff, who,
proud of the rivalship of his metropolis, sets up
equal pretensions, and supports them against the
western church by the priority of that of the East.
0n the left are the standards of two recent ehiefs*;
1‘ Luther and Calvim
.CHAPTER XX. 12 r
who, shaking oﬁ' a yoke that had become tyrannical',
have raised altar against altar in their reform, and
drawn half Europe from the pope. Behind these
are the subaltern sects, subdivided from the prineid
pal divisions, the Nestorians, the Eutycheans, the
Jacobites, the Iconoclasts, the Anab'aptists, the Pres
byterians, the Wicliﬁites, the Osiandrians, the Mani
dheans, the Pietists, the Adamites, the Contempla
tives, the Quakers, the Weepers, and a hundred.
0thers’*; all of distinct parties, persecuting when
strong, tolerant when weak, hating each other in
the name of a God of peace, forming each an exclu
sive heaven in a religion of universal charity, doom
ing each other to pains without end in a future state,
and realizing in this world the imaginary hell of the
other.
After this group, ohserving'.a lonely standard of
the colour of hyacinth, round which were assembled\
men of all the diFi'erent' dresses of Europe and
Asia: At least, said I to the Genius, we shall ﬁnd
unanimity here. Yes, said he, at ﬁrst sight, and by
a momentary accident. Dost thou not know that
system of worship? Then perceiving in Hebrew
letters the monogram of the name of God, and the
palms which the Rabbins held in their hands: True,
said I, these are the children of Moses, dispersed
even to this day, abhorring every nation, and abhor
redand persecuted by all. Yes, said he; and for
* Consult, upon this subject, Dictionnairc rles Heresies, /2111"
1’/lbbe Pluquet, in two volumes, octavo ; a workadmirab]_r cal
culated to inspire the mind with philosophy, in the sense that
the Lacedemonians taught their children temperance by
shewing to them the drunken Helotes. '5
‘f’4'
1'22 CHAPTER XX.
this reason, that, having neither the time nor the li
berty to dispute, they have the appearance of una
nimity. But no sooner will they come together,
and compare their principles, and reason on their
opinions, than they will separate, as formerly, at least
into two principal sects“; one of which, taking ad
vantage of the silence of their legislator, and adher
ing to the literal sense of his books, will deny every
thing that is not clearly expressed therein; and on
this principle will reject as profane inventions the
immortality of the soul, its transmigration to places
of pain or pleasure, its resurrection, the ﬁnal judg
ment, the good and bad angels, the revolt of the evil
Genius,and allthe poetical system of aworld to come.
And this highly favoured people, whose perfection
consists in cutting off a little piece of skin ; this atom
of a people, which forms'but a small wave in the
ocean of mankind, and who will insist that God has
made nothing but for them, will by its schism reduce
to one half its present triﬂing weight in the scale of
the universe.
He then showed me a neighbouring group, com
posed of men dressed in white robes, wearing a veil
over their mouth, and ranged around a banner of the
colour of the morning sky, on which was painted a
globe cleft in two hemispheres, black and white :
The same thing will happen, said he, to these chil
dren of Zoroasterh the obscure remnants of a pee
* The Sadducees and tile Pharisees.
1 They are the Parses, better known by the opprobrious
name of Gaures or Guebres, another word for inﬁdels. They
are in Asia what the Jews are in Europe. The name oftheir
pope or high priest, is Mobed.
CHAPTER XX. 125
pk: once so powerful. At present,’ persecuted like
the Jews, and dispersed among all nations, they re_
ceive without discussion the precepts of the repre
sentative of their prophet. But as soon as the Mobed
and the Destours* shall assemble, they will renew the
controversy about the good and the bad principle ; on .
the combats of Ormuzd, God of light, and Ahrimanes,
God of darkness ; on the direct and allegorical sense;
on the good and evil Genii ; on the worship of ﬁre
and the elements ; on impurities and ablutions; on
the resurrection of the soul and body, or only of the
souh’; on the renovation of the present world, and
on that which is to take its place. And the Parses
will divide into sects so much the more numerous as
their families will have contracted the manners and
opinions of different nations.
Next to these remark those banners of an azure
ground, painted with monstrous ﬁgures of human
bodies, double, triple, quadruple, with heads of lions,
boars, and elephants, and tails of ﬁshes and tortoises ;
these are the ensigns of the sects of India, who ﬁnd
their gods in various animals, and the souls of their
fathers in reptiles and insects. These men support
hospitals for hawks, serpents, and rats ; and they
have a horror for their fellow creatures 2 They pu
' That is to say, their priests. See, respecting the rites of
this religion, Henry, Lord Hyde, and the Zendavesta. Their
costume is a robe with a belt of fourvknots, and a veil over the
mouth for fear ofpolluting the ﬁre with their breath.
0
‘ 1 The Zoroastrians are divided between two opinions, one
party believing that bothsoul and body will rise, the other,
that it will he the soul only. The Christians and Mahome
tans have embraced the most solid ofthe two..
. Q
4
I24 CHAPTER XX.
rify themselves with the dung and urine of cows ;_
and think themselves deﬁled by the touch of a man !
They wear a net over the mouth, lest, in a ﬂy they
should swallow a soul in astate of penance; and
they can see a Paria’* perish with hunger! They
acknowledge the same God; but they separate in
hostile bands I
The ﬁrst staudard,_rctired from the rest, bearing
a ﬁgure with four heads, is that of B1'ama ,' who,
though the Creator of the universe, is without tem
ples or followers ; but, reduced to serve as a pedestal
to the Linganﬁf, he contentshimself with alittle water
which the Bramin throws every morning on his
shoulder, reciting a littl¢ stale song in his praise.
The second, bearinga kite with a scarlet body
and awhite head, is that of Vicbenou, who, though
preserver of the world, has passed part of his life in
bad actions. You sometimes see him under the
hideousform of a boar or a lion, tearingthe entrails of
men, or under that of a horset, shortly to come with
“ According to the system of the Metempsychosia, a soul,
to undergo puriﬁcation. passes into the body of some insect
or animal. It is ofimportance not to disturb this penance, as
the work must in that case begin dresh..." Paria. This is
lhe name of a cast or tribe reputed unclean, because they cut
of what has enjoyed life.
1* See Samxcrat, Voyage aux Imle: Vol. I.
# These are the incarnations of Vichenou, or metamorpho
ses of the sun. He is to come at the end ofthe woghl, that is
at the expiration of the great period, in the form of a horse,__
like the four horses of the Apocalypse.
CHAPTER XX. l25
a. sword in his hand to destroy the human race, blot
outthe stars, knock down the planets, shake the
earth, and force the great serpent to vomit a ﬁre
which shall consume the spheres.
The third is that of C/liven, God of desolation and
destruction, who has, however, for his emblem the
symbol of generation. He is the most wicked of the
three, and he has the most followers. These men,
proud of his character, express in their devo
tions* to him their contempt for the other gods, his
_equ_als and brothers; and,in imitation of his inconsist
encies, while they profess great modesty and chas
‘tity, they publicly crown with ﬂowers, and sprinkle
with milk and honey, the obscene image of the
Lingam.
In the\_rear of these approach the smaller stand
ards of a multitude of gods, male, female, and her
tnaphrodite. Theseare friends and relations of the
fprincipal godsyand have passed their lives in wars
_among themselves ; and their_ followers imitate them.
These gods have need of nothing, and they are con
Ctantly receiving presents ; they are omnipotent and
omnipresent, and a priest by muttering a few words,
shuts them up in an idol or a. pitcher, to sell their
favours for his own beneﬁt.
Beyond these, that cloud of standards, which, on a
yellow ground common to them all, bear various em
blems, are those of the same god who reigns under
diﬁ"erent names in the nations of the East. The
A’
‘v When a sectary ol'Chiven hears the name of'Vichenot1.'
pronounced, he stops his ears, runs, and puriﬁes himself.
. M
lee ensrrna xx.
Chinese adores him in Fot ,-'* the Japonese, in Bud
so ,' the Ceylanese, in Bedhau ,' the people of Laos,
in Chckia; of Pegu, in Phta; of Sir n, in Somme
na-Kodom ,' of Tibet, in Budd and in La. Agree
ing in some points of his history, they all celebrate
his life of penitence, his mortiﬁcations, his fastings,
his functions of mediator and expiator, the enmity
between him and another god his adversary, the bat
tles of the two gods, and the victory of their own.
But as they disagree on the means of pleasing him,
they dispute about rites and ceremonies, and about
the dogmas of interior doctrine and of public doc
trine. That Japonese Bonn, with a yellow robe
and naked head, preaches the eternity of souls,
and their successive transmigrations into various
bodies; near him, the Sintoist denies that souls
can exist separate from the senses? and maintains
* The original name of this god is Baits, which in Hebrew
signiﬁes an egg. The Arabs pronounce it Baidh, giving to
the db an emphatic sound which makes it approach to dz,
Kempfer, an accurate traveller, writes it Eudro, which must
be pronounced Boudsa, whence is derived the name of Bud
soist and Bonze, applied to the priests. Clement of Alexam
dria in his Stromata, writes it Bedau, as it is pronounced also
by the (,’l.dngulais; and St. Jerome, Boudda and Boutta. At
'.l.hibet they call it Budd : and hence the name of the country
called Bond'tan and Ti-budd : it was in this province that
this system of religion was ﬁrst inculcated in Upper Asia;
La is a corruption of Allah, the name of God in the Syriac
language, from which many of the eastern dialects appear to
be derived The Chinese having neither 6 nor d, have sup.
plied their place by fand r, and have therefore said Fout.
1 See in Kempfer the doctrine of the Sintoists, which is a
rnixtsrc of that oi Epicurus and the Stolen.
CHAPTER XX. .127
that they are only the effect of the organs to
which they belong, and ‘ with which they must
perish, as the sound of the ﬂute perishes with the
ﬂute. Near him, the Siamese, with his eyebrows
shaved, and the talipat screen in his hand,* recom
mends alms, oﬁferings and expiations, at the same
time when he preaches blind necessity and inexora
ble fate. The Chinese V0-Chung sacriﬁces to the
souls of his ancestors; and next him, the follower
of Confuscius interrogates his destiny in the cast of
dies and the movement of the stars.'l' That child,
surrounded by a swarm of priests in yellow robes and
hats, is the Grand-Lama; in whom the god of Tibet
has just become incarnate.1 But _a rival has arisen
who partakes this beneﬁt with him; and the Cal
mouc on the banks of the Baikal has a God similar
to the inhabitant of Law. But they agree, however,
in one important point, that God can inhabit only a
human body. They both laugh at the stupidity of
the Indian, who pays homage to cow-dung ; though
* It is a leaf of.the Latanier species ofthe palm tree. Hence
the honzes of Siam take the appellation of Talapoin. The
use of this screen is an exclusive privilege.
{The scctaries of Confuscins are no less addicted to as
trology than the bonzes. It is indeed the malady of every
eastern nation.
1 The Delai'La'Ma, or immense high prielt of La, is the
same person whom we ﬁnd mentioned in our old books of
travels, by the name of Prester John, from a corruption ofthe
Persian word Dje/lan, which signiﬁes the world, to which has
been preﬁxed the French word prestre or prétre, priest.
Thus the priest \Vorld and the god World are, in the Persian
idiom, the same.
128 . GHAPTER XX.
they themselves consecrate the excrements of their
high-priest.’
After these, a crowd of other banners, which no
man could number, came forward into sight; and
the Genius exclaimed : I should never ﬁnish the de
tail ofall the systems of faith which divide these na
tions. Here the hordes of Tart-ars adore in the
forms of beasts, birds, and insects, the good and evil
Genii ; who, under a principal but indolent god,
governs the universe. In their idolatry they call to
mind the ancient paganism of the west. You observe
the fantastical dress of the Chamans ; who, under a
robe of leather, hung round with bells and rattles,
idols of iron,claws of birds,skins of snakes and heads
of owls, invoke the dead to deceive the living. There,
the black tribes of Africa exhibit the same opinions
.in the worship of their fetiches. See the inhabitant
of Juida worship God in a great snake; which, un
luckily, the swine delight to eat.’r The Teleutean
" In a recent expedition, the English have found certain
idols of the Lamas,ﬁlled in the inside with sacred pastils from
the close stool of the high priest. Mr. Hastings, and Colo
nel Pollier, who is now at Lausanne, are living witnesses of
this fact, and undoubtedly worthy of credit. It will be very
extraordinary to observe, that this disgusting ceremony is
connected with a profound philosophical system, to wit, that
of the metempsychosis, admitted by the Lamas.-W'hen the
Tltrtnrs swallow these sacred relics, which they are accus
tomed to do, they imitate the laws of the universe, the parts
of which are incessantly absorbed,and pass into the substance
of each other. It is upon the model of the serpent who de
vours his tail, and this serpent is Budd and the world.
1' It frequently happens that the swine devour the very
species of serpent: the negroes adore, which is a source of
CHAPTER XX. 129
attires his god in 3. coat of several colour.s like a
Russian soldier. The Kamchadale, observing that
every thing goes wrong in his frozen country, con
siders him as an old ill-natured roan,"E smoking his
pipe, and hunting foxes and martins in his sledge.
But you may still behold a hundred savage nations
who have none of the ideas of civilized people re
specting God, the soul, another world, and a future
life ; who have formed no system of worship ; and
who nevertheless enjoy the gifts of nature in the ir
rcligion in which she has created them.
great desolation in the country. President d.e Brosses has
given us in his history of the Fetic/le, at curious collection of
absurdities of this nature.... The Teleutcnn dresses, etc. The
Teleuteans, a Tartar nation, paint God as wearing a vesturc
of all colours, particularly red and green; and as these con.
stitute the uniform of the Russian dragoons, they compare
him to this description of soldiers. The Egyptians also dress
the god VVorld in a garment of every colour. Eusebius Pnej>_
Eom1g.p. 115, I. 3. The Teleuteans call God Bou, which is
only an alteration 0fBondd, the god Egg and \V0x.ld.
' Consult upon this subject :1 work entitled, Description dos
Peujales soumi: a la Russe, and it will be found that the pic
ture is not overcliargeds
CHAPTER XXL
BROBLEM OF BELXGIOUS CONTRADICTIONS.
THE various groups having taken their places”
an unbounded silence succeeded to the mur
murs of the multitude; and the Lawgiver said:
Chiefs and doctors of mankind! you remark how the
nations, living apart, have hitherto followed diﬂ'erent
paths, each believing its own to be that of truth. If,
however, truth is one, and opinions are various, it is
evident that some are in error. If then such vast
numbers of us are in the wrong, who shalldare to
say, I am in the right? Begin therefore by being
indulgent in your dissentions. Let us all seek truth
as if no one possessed it. The opinions which to
this day have governed the world, originating from
thance, propagated in obscurity, admitted without
discussion, accredited by a love of novelty and imi
tation, have usurped their empire ina clandestine
manner. It is time, if they are well founded, to
give a solemn stamp to their certainty, and legiti
'mate their existence. Let us summon them this day
to a general scrutiny; let each propound his creed,
let the whole assembly be the judge, and let that
alone be acknowledged true which is so for thﬂ
whole human race.
cnarran XXL isi
Then, by order of position, the.ﬁrst standard on
the left was allowed to speak: You are not per
mitted to doubt, Said their chief, that our doctrine
is the only true and infallible one. First, it is re
vealed by God himself......
So is ours, cried all the other standards, and you
are not permitted to doubt it.
But at least, said the Lawgiver, you must propose
it? for we cannot believe what we do not know.
Our doctrine is proved, replied the ﬁrst standard,
by numerous facts; by a multitude of miracles, by
resurrections of the dead, by rivers dried up, by
mountains removed.....
.\' _
And we also, cried all the others, we have num
berless miracles: and each began to recount the
most incredible things.
Their miracles, said the ﬁrst standard, are imagi
' .nary; or the ﬁctions of the evil spirit, who has de
luded them.
I
They are yours, said the others, that are imagi
nary : and each group, speaking of itself, cried out :
None but ours are true ; all the others are false.
TheLawgiver asked: Have you living witnesses
‘ of the facts? N0, replied them all ; the witnesses are
dead ; the facts are ancient; but they are recorded.
I32 CHAPTER XXI.
Be it so, replied the Lawgiver ; but if they con,
tradict each other, who shall .reconcile them ?
- Justjudge ! cried oneof the standards; the proof
that our witnesses have seen the truth, is that they
died to conﬁrm it ; and our faith is sealed with the
blood of martyrs.
And ours too, said the other standards; we have
thousands of martyrs who have died in the most ex
cruciating torments, without ever denying the truth.
Then the Christians of every sect, the Mussulmen,
~ the lndians, the Japonese, recited endless legends of
confcssors, martyrs, pcnitents, etc.
Andone of these parties having denied the martyr
ology of the others : Vi/'ell, said they, we will then
die ourselves to prove the truth of our belief. And
instantly a crowd of men, of every religion and of
every sect, presented themselves to suffer the tor
ments of death. Many even began to tear their arms,
and to beat their heads and breasts, without discover
ing any symptom of pain.
But the Lawgiver, preventing them: 0 men!
said he, hear my words with patience : if you die to
prove that twoand two nuke four, will your death add
any thing to this truth ? No !. answered all. And if
you die to prove that they make ﬁve, will that make
them ﬁve ? Again they all answered, No. VVhat
then is your persuasion to prove,ifit changes not
the existence of things ? Truth is one ; your pcrsua.i
sions are various; many of you, therefore, are in \ '
error. Now, if man, as is evident, can persuade
GHAPTER XXL 13S
himself of error, what is the persuasion of man to
prove?
Jf error has its martyrs, what is the certain mark
of truth ?
If the evil sph'itworks miracles, what is the dis
tinctive character of God ? .
Besides,'why resort for ever to incomplete and in
suﬁicient miracles ? Instead of changing the course
of nature, why not rather change opinions? Why
murder and terrify men, instead of instructing and
correcting,r them E
O credulous, but opinionated mortals! none of us
knows what was done yesterday, what is doing to-day
even under his eyes; and we swear to what was done
two thousand years ago ! Oh, the weakness, and yet
the pride of men ! the laws of nature are unchangea
ble and profound ; our minds are full of illusion and
frivolity ; and yet we would comprehend every thing,
determine every thing! Butin fact, it is easier for
the whole human race to he in an error,than to change
the nature of an atom.
Well then, said one of the doctors, let us lay aside
the evidence of fact, since it is uncertain; let us
come to argument, the proofs inherent in the doc
trine.
Then came forward, whh a look of conﬁdence, an
Iman of the law of Mahomiat ; and, having advanced
into the circle, turned towards Mecca, and recit
/\.A
’134 QHAPTER XXI’.
ed with great emphasis his confession of faith : Praise
be to God, said he, with a solemn and imposing voice,
the light shines with full evidence, and the truth has
no need of examination. Then, showing the Koran ;
Here, said he,is the light of truth in its proper es
sence. There is no doubt in this book. It conducts
with safety him who walks in darkness, and who re
ceives without discussion the divine word which de
scended on the prophet, to save the simple and con
found the wise. God has established Mahomet his
minister on earth ; he has given him the world, that
he may subdue with the sword whoever shall refuse,
to receive his law. Inﬁdels dispute, and will hot._
believe; their obduracy comes from God, who has
hardened their hearts, to deliver them to dreadfgl
punishments.*...
At these words, a violent murmur arose on ail
sides, and silenced the speaker. Who is this ma.n_,
criedall the groups,whothus insults us withouta cause?
What right has he to impose his creed on us as con
queror and tyrant? Hasnot God endowed us, as well as
him, with eyes, understanding, and reason? And have
we not an equal right to use them, in choosing what
tobelieve, and what to reject ? if he attacks us, shall
we not defend ourselves ? if he likes to believe
without examination, must we therefore not examine
before we believe ?
* This passage contains the sense and nearly the very
Words of the ﬁrst chapter of the Koran ; and the reader will
observe in general, that, in the pictures that follow, the
writer has endeavoured to give as accurately as possible the
letter and spirit of the opinions ofeach partx.
CHAPTER XXI. 1.35
And what is this luminous doctrine that fears the
light .? What is this apostle of a God of clemency,
' who preaches nothing but murder and carnage!
What is this God of justice, who punishes blindness
which he himself has made ? If violence and per
secution are the arguments of truth, are gentleness
and charity the signs of falsehood?
A man then advancing from a neighbouring group,
said to the Iman: Admitting that Mahomet is the
apostle of the best doctrine, the prophet of the true
religion; have the goodness at least to tell us, in the
practice of his doctrine, whether we are to follow his
son-in-law .412', or his vicars Omar and Aboubekrc 2'
At the sound of these names a terrible schism
arose among the Mussulmen themselves. The par
tisans of Ali and those of Omar, calling out heretics
and blasji/lemers, loaded each other with execrations.
The quarrel became so violent, that neighbouring
groups were obliged to interfere,to prevent their com
ing to blows. At length, tranquililty being some
what restored, the Lawgiver said to the Imans : See
the consequences of your principles! If you your
selves were to carry them into practice, you would
destroy each other to the last man. Is it not the ﬁrst
law of God that man should live ? Then, addressing
himselfto the other groupsi Doubtless, said he, this
intolerant and exclusive spirit shocks every idea of
justice, and overturns the whole foundation of morals
' These are the two grand parties into which the Mussol
men are divided. The Turks have embraced the second, the
Persians the ﬁrst
136 CHAPTER XXI.
and society ; but before we totally reject this code of
doctrine, is it not proper to hear some of its dogmas !
Let us not pronounce on the iorms, without having
some knowledge of the substance.
The groups having consented ; the Iman began to
expound how God, after having sent to the nations,
lost in idolatry, twenty-four thousand prophets, had
ﬁnally sent the last, the seal and perfection of all, Ma
homet; on whom be the salvation of peace : how, to
prevent the divine word from being any longer per
verted by inﬁdels, the supreme goodness had itself
written the pages of the Koran. Then, explaining
the particular dogmas of lslamism,'the lman unfold
ed how the Koran, partaking of the divine nature,
was uncreated and eternal, like its author: how it
had been sent leaf by leaf, in twenty-four thousand
nocturnal apparitions of the Angel Gabriel : how the
Angel announced himself by a gentle knocking, which
threw the prophet into a cold sweat : how in the vi
sion ofone night he had travelled overninety heavens,
~ riding on the beast Borack, half horse and half wo
man : how, endowed with the gifts of miracles, he
walked in the sunshine without a shadow, turned dry
trees to green, ﬁlled wells and cisterns with water,
and split in two the body of the moon : how, by di
vine command, he had propagated, sword in hand,
the religion the most worthy of God by its sublimity,
and the most proper for men by the simplicity of its
practice ; since it consisted in only eight or ten.
points : to profess the unity of God ; to acknowledge
Mahomet as his only prophet ; to pray ﬁve times a
day ; to fast one month in the year ; to go to Mecca
once in our life ; to pay the tenth of all we possess ;
CHAPTER XXI. 437
to drink no wine; to eat no pork ; and to make war
II pen the inﬁdels.* He taught that by these means
every Mussulman, becoming himself an apostle and
martyr, should enjoy in this world many blessings
and, at his death, his soul, weighed in the balance of
vvorks, and absolved by the two black angels, should
pass the infernal pit on the bridge as narrow as a hair
and as sharp as the edge of a sword, and should ﬁnally
be received to a. region of delight, which is watered
with rivers of milk and honey, and embalmed in all
the perfumes of India and Arabia ; and where the cc
Ilestial Houris, virgins always chaste, are eternally
crowning with repeated favours the elect ofGod, who
preserve an eternal youth.
. At these words an involuntary smile was seen on
_.all their lips, and the various groups, .reasoning on
these articles of faith, exclaimed with one voice : Is
it possible that reasonable beings can admit such
reveries ? would not you think it a chapter from the
ihoilsand and one .nights?
A Samoyede advanced in the circle : The paradise
of Mahomet, said he, appears to me very good ; but
one of the means of gaining it is embarrassing : for
if we must neither eat nor drink between the rising
and setting sun, as he has ordered, how are we to
practice that fast in my country, where the sun conti
nues above the horizon six months without sitting ?
considered by them as an obligatory precept and an act ofz‘e
ligion. See Reland de Rdig. Mahom. '
8
l38 CHAPTER XXI.
That is impossible, cried all the Mussulmen doc
tors, to support the honour of the prophet;.(but a
hundred nations having attested the fact, the infalli
bility of Mahomet could not but receive a shock.
It is singular, said an European, that God should
be constantly revealing what takes place in heaven,
without ever instructing us what is doing on the
earth.
For my part, says an American, I ﬁnd a great dif
ﬁculty .in the pilgrimage. For suppose twenty-ﬁve
years to a generation, and a hundred millions of
males on the globe : each one being obliged to go to
Mecca once in his life, there must be four millions a
year on the journey ; and as it would be impractica
ble for them to return the same year, the numbers
would be doubled, that is, eight millions : where
would you ﬁnd provisions, lodgings, water, vessels,
for this universal procession? Here must be mira
ndeed !
The proof, said a Catholic doctor, that the religion
of Mahomet is not revealed, is that the greater part of
the ideas which serve for its basis existed a long
time before, and that .it is only a confused mixture.of
truths disﬁgured and taken from our holy religion
and from that of the Jews ; which an .ambitious man
has made to serve his projects of domination, and
his worldly views. Look through his book ; you
will see nothing there but the histories of the Bible
and the Gospel, travestied into absurd fables ; a tis
sue of vague and contradictory declamations and ridi
culous or dangerous precepts.
CHAPTER XXI. 139
Analyze the spirits of these precepts, and the con-
duct of their apostle; you will ﬁndthere an artful
and audacious character,which to obtain its end, works
ably, it is true, on the passions of the people it had to
govern. It is speaking to simple men, and it enter
tains them with miracles ; they are ignorant and
jealous, and it ﬂatters their vanity .by despising
science ; they are poor and rapacious, and it excites
their cupidity by the hope of pillage ; having nothing
at ﬁrst to give them on .earth, it tells them of trea
sures in heaven; it teaches them to desire death
as the supreme good ; it threatens cowards with hell;
it rewards thebrave with paradise; it sustains the
weak with the opinion of fatality ; in short, it produces
the attachment it wants by all the allurements of
sense and all the power of the passions.
‘ How different is the character ofour religion ! and
how completely does its empires, founded on the
counteractionofour natural temper,and.rhe mortiﬁca->
tion of'allour passions, prove its divine origin ! how
forcibly does its mild and compassionate morality, its
aﬁ'ections altogether spiritual, attest its emanation
from God! Many of its doctrines, it is true, soar
above the reach of the understanding, and impose
on reason a respectful silence; but this more fully
demonstrates its .revelation, since the human mind
could never have imagined such mysteries. Then
holding the Bible in one hand and the four Gospels
in the other, the doctor began to relate : That
in .he beginning, God (after having passed an eterni
{y in idleness) took’ the resolution (without any
known cause) of making the world out of nothing;
that, having created the whole universe in six days,
240 .CHAPTER XXI~
he found himself fatigued on the seventh ; that
having placed the ﬁrst human pair in a garden of.
delights, to make them completely happy, he forbade
their tasting a particular fruit which he left within
their reach ;;that these ﬁrst parents, having yielded to
the temptation, all their race (which were not yet.
horn) had been condemned to bear the penalty of a
fault which they had not committed ; that, after
having left the human race. to damn themselves for
four of ﬁve thousand years, this God of mercy order-~
ed a well beloved Son, whom he had engendered
without a mother, and who was as old as himself, to
go and get himself put to death on the earth, and this
for the salvation of mankind; of whom much the
greatest portion, nevertheless, have ever since con
. tinned in the Way of perdition ; that to remedy this
new dilliculty, this same God, born of a virgin, having
died and risen from the dead, assumes a new exist
ence every day, and, in the form of a piece of bread,
multiplies himself by millions at the voice of one of
the basest of men. Thence, passing on to the doc
trine of the sacraments, he was going to treat at large
of the power of absolution and reprobation, of the
means of purging all sins by a little water and a few
Words; when, uttering the words indulgence, ﬂower
oft/1e j10jle, suﬂlcient grace, and rjﬁcacioua grace, he
was interrupted by a thousand cries. .It is a horrible
abuse, cried the Lutherans, to pretend to remit sins
for money. The notion of the real ﬂresenre, cried
the Calvinists, is contrary to the text of the Gospel.
The pope has no right to decide any thing of himself,
cried the Jansenists ; and thirty other sects, rising up,
and accusing each other of ln;r sies and e\ rors, it was
_no longer possible to hear any thing distinctly.
CHAPTER XXI. _ htl
\Silence being at last restored, the Mussulmen
observed to the Lawgiver : Since you have rejected
our doctrine as containing things incredible, can you
admit that of the Christians? Is not theirs still
more contrary to common sense and justice ? A
God, immaterial and inﬁnite, to become a man ! to
have a son as old as himself I .This God-Man to
become bread, to be eaten and digested ! have we any
thing equal to that? Have the Christians an ex
clusive right of setting up a blind faith ? And will
you grant them privileges of belief, to our det
riment ?
\ Some savage tribes then advanced : What! said
they, because a man and woman ate an apple six thou
sandyears ago, all the human race are damned ? And
you call God just ? VVhat tyrant ever rendered chil
dren responsible forthe faults of their fathers? \Vhat
man can answer l'or4he actions of another? Does not
this overturn every idea of justice and of reason ?
Others exclaimed : Where are the proofs, the wit- .. ..._
nesses ofthese pretended facts? Can we receive thertt
without examining the evidence ? The least action
in a court of justice requires two witnesses ; and we
are ordered to believe all this on more traditions and
hearsays l
A Jewish Rabbin then addressing the assembly,
said : As to the fundamental facts, we are sureties ;
but with regard to their form and their application,
the case is different ; and the Christians are here
condemned by their own arguments. For they can
not deny that we are the original source from which
N2
usl CHAPTER XXI.
they are derived, the primitive stock on which they
are grafted; and hence the reasoning is very short :
either our law is from God, and then theirs is a here
sy, since it differs from ours ; or our law is not from
God, and then theirs falls at the same time.
But you must make this distinction, replied the
Christian: Your law is from God, as tyjlical and
jircjlarari'ue, but not as final and absolute; you are
the image, of which we are the substance._
\Ve know, replied the Rabbin, that such are your.
pretensions ; but they are absolutely gratuitous and
false Your system turns altogether on mystical‘
meanings, visionary and allegorical interpretations.
‘With violent distortions on the letter of our books,
you substitute the most chimerical ideas to the true
ones, and ﬁnd in them whatever pleases you, as or
roving imagination will ﬁnd ﬁgures inthe clouds.
Thus you have made a spiritual Messiah of that
which,in the spirit of our prophets, is only a tem
king. You have made a redemption of the hu
man race out of the simple re-establishment of our
nation. Your conception of the Virgin is founded
on asingle phrase, of which you have changed the
meaning. Thus you make from our scriptures what
ever your fancy dictates ! you even ﬁnd there your
' When we read the fathers of the church, and see upon
what arguments they have built the ediﬁce of religion, we;
are inexpressibly astonished with their eredulity or their
knavery; but allegory was the rage of that period; the Pa
gans employed it to explain the actions of their Gods, and
the Christians acted in the same spirit when they employedi
.it after their fashion. .
. -' » V,'3.
CHAPTER XXI. I43
trinity ; though there is not a word that has the
most distant allusion to such a thing; and it is an in
vention of profane writers, admitted, with a host of
Other opinions, of every religion and of every sect,
during the anarchy of the three ﬁrst centuries of your
era.
.~_.+At these words, the Christian doctors, crying
sacrikge and blasjlhemy, sprang forward ina trans
port of fury to fall upon the Jew; and a troop of
monks, in motley dresses of black and white, ad
vanced With a standard. on which were painted pin
cers, gridirons, lighted faggots, and the words jus
ticr, charity, mercgﬁ; It is necessary, said they, to
make an example of these impious wretches, and
burn them for the glory of God. They began even
to prepare the pile, when a Mussulman answered in
a strain of irony : This then is that religion ofj1,.gee,
that meek, and bem;/icent system which you so much
extol! This is that evangelical charity which com.
bats inﬁdelity with persuasive mildness, and repays
injuries with patience !_ Ye hypocrites! It is thus
that you deceive mankind ! thus that you propagate
your accursed errors! \Vhen you were weak,
you preached liberty, tolcration, ﬂeace; when you
are strong, you practice persecution and via,
lence...J’
And he was going to. begin the history of the wars
and slaughters of Christianity, when the Lawgiver,
demanding silence, suspended this scene of discord.
I
‘ This description ans_wers e~.a¢u§ to the banner of ﬂlﬁ
Biquisition of Spanish Jacobins.
;44 CHAPTER xxx.
The monks, affecting a tone of meekness and
humility, exclaimed: It is not ourselves that we
would avenge ; it is the cause of God, it is the glory
of God that we defend.
And what right have you, more than we, said the
Imans, to constitute yourselves the representatives
of God ? Have you privileges that we have not ? Are
you not men like us ? ' 0
To defend God, said another group, to pretend to
avenge him, is to insult his wisdom and his power.
Does he not know, better than men, what beﬁts his
dignity ?
Yes, replied the Monks, but his ways are secret.
And it remains for you to prove, said the Rabbins,
that you have the exclusive privilege of understand
ing them. Then, proud of ﬁnding supporters to
their cause, the Jews thoug'ht'that the books of Moses
were going to be triumphant, when the Mobeb* of
the Parses obtained leave to speak :
We have heard, said he, the account of the Jews,"_
and Christians of the origin of the world; and,.
though greatly mutilated, we ﬁnd in it some facts which
we admit. But we deny that they are to be attributed
to the legislator ofthe Hebrews. Itwasnot he whomade
known to men these sublime truths, these celestial
events. It was notto him that God revealed them, butto
our holy prophet Zoroaster: and the proofofthis is in
the very books that they refer to. Examine with atten'>
if High Priest.
CHAPTER' XXI. _ 145
tion the laws, the ceremonies, the precepts establish
od by Moses in those books ; you will not ﬁnd the
slightest indication, either expressed or understood,
of what constitutes the basis of the Jewish and
Christian theology. You no where ﬁnd the .least
trace ofthe immortality of the soul, orof a future life,
or of heaven, or of hell, or of the revolt of the prin
eipalangcl, author of the evils of the human race.
These ideas were not known toMoses ; and the rea
son is very obvious : it was not till four centuries af
terwards that Zoroaster ﬁrst evangelized them in
Asia)‘
Thus, added the Mobeb, turning to the Rabbins,
it is not till after that epoch, that is to say, in the time
of your ﬁrst kings, that these ideas begin to appear
in your write rs ; and then their appearance is obscure
and gradual, accordingto the progress of the poli
tical relations between your ancestors and ours It
Was especially when, having been conquered by the
kings of Nineveh and Babylon, and transported to
the banks of the Tygris and the Euphrates, they re
sitled there for three successive generations, that
they imbibed manners and opinions which had been
rejected as contrary to their law. VVhen our king
Cyrus had delivered them from slavery, their heart
was won to us by gratitude ; they became our disci
ples and imitators; and they admitted our dogmas
in the revision of their bookst; for your Genesis, in
’ See the Chronology of the Twelve Ages, in which I __ '
conceive myself to have clearly proved that Moses lived
about 1400 years before Jesus Christ, and Zoroaster about a
thousand.
1 In the ﬁrst periods of the Christian church, not only the
most learned of those who have since been denominated
I46 CHAPTER XXI.
particular, was never the work of Moses, but a com
pilation drawn up after the return from the Babylo
nian captivity, in which are inserted the Chaldean
opinions on the origin of the world.
At ﬁrst the pure followers ofthe law, endeavouring
to repel these innovations, insisted on the letter ofthe
text and the absolute silence of the prophet ; but the
new doctrine prevailed ; and, being modiﬁed accord-v
heretics, but many of the orthodox conceived Moses to have
Written neither the law nor the Pentateuch, but that the
work was a compilation made by the elders of the people
and the Seventy, who after the deathof Moses. collected his
scattered ordinances, and mixed with them things that were
' extraneous; similar to what happened as to the Koran of
Mahomet. See Le: Clevnentiner, Hamel; 2. seat. 51. and
v Home]. 3. sect. 42;
Modern critics, more enlightened or more attentive than:
the ancients, have foundin Genesis in particular, marks of
its having been composed on the return from the captivity :
but the principal proofs have escaped them These I mean
to exhibit in an analysis of the ho k of Genesis, in which I
shall demonstrate that the tenth chapter, among others,
which treats of the pretended generations of the man called
Noah, is a real geographical picture of the world, as it was
known to the Hebrews at the epoch of the capti_ity, which
was bounded by Greece or Hellas at the West, mount Cau
casus at the North, Persia at the East, and Arabia and Up
per Egypt at the South. All the pretended personages from
Adam to Abraham, or his father Terah, are mythologi.
cal beings, stars, constellations, countries. Adam is Bootes ;
Noah is Osyris: Xisutlrrus Janus, Saturn; that is to say,
Capricorn, or the celestial Genius that opened the year.
The Alexandrian Chronicle says expressly, page 85, that
Nimrod was supposed by the Persians to be their ﬁrst king,
as having invented the art of hunting. and that he was trans
hted into heaven, where he appears undcr the name of Orion:
CHAPTER XXI. I47
i'ng to the ideas and genius of your nation, gave rise
to a new sect.
You expected a king to restore your political inde
pendence ; we announced a God to regenerate and
save mankind. From this combination of ideas, your
Essenians laid the foundation of Christianity. And
whatever your pretensions may be, Jews, Christians,
hlussulmen, you are, in your system of spiritual be
ings, onlythe blundering followers of Zoroaster.
The Mobeb, then passing on to the details of his
religion, quoting from the Zadder and the Zendaves
ta, recounted, in the same order as in the Genesis, the
creation of the world in six Gahans*, the formation
‘ Or periods, or in six gahan'bars, that is six periods of
time. These periods are what Zoroaster calls the thousands
of God, or of light, meaning the six summer months. In the
ﬁrst, say the Persians, God created (arranged in order) the
heavens ; in.the second waters; in the third the earth; in the
fourth trees ; in the ﬁtth animals ; andinthe sixth man ; cor
responding with the account in Genesis. For particulars
see Hy de, ch. 9, and Henry Lord, ch.2. and the religion
of the ancient Persians. It is remarkable that the same
tradition is found in the sacred books of the Etrurians, which
relate that the fabricator of all tlnngs had comprised the du
ration of his work in a period oftwelve thousand years, which
period was distributed to the twelve houses of the sun. In
the ﬁrst thousand, God made heat en and earth; in the second
the ﬁrmament; in the third the sea and the waters ; in the
fourth the sun, moon and stars ; in the ﬁfth the souls of ani
mals, birds, and reptiles _; in the siith man. See Suidai, at-.
the word Tyrrhena; which shews ﬁrst the identity of their
theological and astrological opinions ; and. secondly, the
identity, or rather confusion of ideas, between absolute and.
gystematicali creation; that is the periods assigned for renew-'
*5
'1
4I
I
‘ 148 CHAPTER XXI.
of a ﬁrst man and a ﬁrst woman, in a divine place, un—
\ der the reign of perfect good; the introduction of
evil into the world by the great snake, emblem of
./ihrimanes ,' the revolt and battles of the Genius of
evil and darkness against Ormuzd, God of good and
of light; the division of the angels into white and.
black, or good and bad; their hierarchal orders,
£1101'ubl'm, serajlhim, thrones, dominions, etc. the end
of the world at the close of six thousand years; the
coming of the lamb, the regenerator of the world;
the new world; the future life, and the regions of
happiness and misery ; the passage of souls over the
bridge of the bottomless pit ; the celebration of the
mysteries of Mithras; the unleavened bread which
the initiated eat ; the baptism of new-born children 5
the unction of the dead; the confession of sins*_;
ing the face of nature, which were at ﬁrst the period of the
year. and afterwards periods of 60, of .600, of 25,000, of
36,000, and of 432,000 years.
" The modern Parses and the ancient Mithriaes, who are
the same sect, observe all the Christian' sacraments, even
the laying on of hands in conﬁrmation. The priest of Mithr.|1!,
says Tertullian, (de Promeriptionc, ch. 40.) promises absolu
tion from sin on confession and baptism ; and, if I rightly re
member, Mithra marks his soldiers in the forehead, with
the chrism called in the Egyptian Kouphi ; he celebrates.
the sacriﬁce of bread, which is.the resurrection, and presents
the crown to his followers, manaeing them at the same time
with the sword, etc.
In these mystenes they tried the courage of the initiated
.with a thousand terrors, presenting ﬁre to his face, a sword
to his breast, etc. they also olfered him a crown which he
refused, saying, God is my crown; and this crown is to be
seen in the celestial sphere by the side of'Bo0tes. The per
eonages in these mysteries were distinguished by the names
‘ CHAPTER XXI. H9
and, in a word, he recited so many things analogous
to the religions before mentioned, that it seemed like
a commentary or a continuation of the Koran or the
Apocalypse.
But the Jewish, Christian, and Mahometan doc-
tors, crying out against this recital, and treating the
Parses as idolaters and worshippers of ﬁre, charged
them with falsehoods, interpolations, falsiﬁcation of
facts; and there arose a violent dispute as to the
dates of events, their orders and succession, the ori
gin of the doctrines, their transmission'frorn nation to
nation, the authenticity of the books that established
them, the epoch of their composition, the character
oftheir compilers, and the validity of their testimony.
And the various parties, pointing out, reciprocally to
each other, contradictions, improbabilities, and for
geries, accused each other of having established this
belief on popular rumours, vague traditions, and ab
surd fables, invented without discernment, and ad-
mitted without examination, by unknown writers,
ignorant or partial, and at false or uncertain epochs.
A great murmur now arose from under the stand
ards of the various Indian sects; and the Bramins,
protesting against the pretensions of the Jews and
the Parses, said : VVhat are these new and almost un
heard of nations, who arrogantly set themselves up
of the animal constellations. The ceremony of mass is
nothing more than animitation of these mysteries and those
of Eleums. The benediction, the Lord besmt/1 you, is a literal
translation of the formular of admiss‘on c/mu'k, am, p—1'a.
See Beausob. Hist. Du MtlniC]l€i8me, vol. ii.
0
ii 50 CHAPTER XXI.
as the sources of the human race, and the deposita
.ties of its archives ? To hear theircalculations of ﬁve
or six thousand years, it would seem that the world
was of yesterday ; whereas our monuments prove a
duration of many thousands of centuries. And for
’what reason are their books to be preferred to ours .7
Are then the Vedca, the C/metres, and the Pourrans
inferior to the Bibles, the Zendavestas, and the Zad
ders." And is not the .testimony of our fathers and
' These are the sacred volumes of the Hindoos ; they are
sometimes written Vedtlms, Puuranams, Chartrmls, because
the Hindoos, like the Persians, are accustomed to give a na.
sal sound to the terminations of their words, which we re
present by the afﬁxes .on and an, and the Portuguese by the
atlixes am and am. Many of these books have .been trans'.
lated, thanks to the liberal spirit of’ Mr. Hastings, who has
founded at Calcutta a literary society, and a printing press.
At the same time, however, that we express our gratitude
to this society, we must be permitted to complain of its ex
clusive spirit ; the number of copies printed of each book
being such as it is impossible to purchase them even in
England ; they are wholly in the hands ofthe East India' pro
prietors. Scarcely even is the Asiatic Miscellany known in
Europe; and a man must be very learned in oriental an
tiquity before he so much as heats of the Jones’s, the Wil
kh;s’s, and the i'lalhed’s, etc. As to the sacred books of the
Hindoos, all that are yet in our hands are the Bhagvat Geeta,
the Ezour-Vedam, the Bagavadam, and certain fragments of
the Chastres printed at the end of the Hhagmt Geeta. These
books are in.Indostan what the Old and New Testament are
in Christendom, the Koran in Turkey, the Sadder and the
\ Zendavesta among the Parses, etc. \Vhen I have taken an
extensive survey of their contents, I have sometimes asked
myself, what would be the loss to the human race it’ a new
. Omar condemned them to the ﬂames ; and, unable, to _dis
€HAPTER XXI. l5l
our Gods as good as that of the fathers and the Gods
of the \Vest? Ah I if it were permitted to reveal
our mysteries to profane men ! If a sacred veil did
not justly conceal them from every eye
The Bramins stopping short at these words : How
canr/we admit your doctrine, said the Lawgiver, if
you will not make it known ? And how did its ﬁrst
authors propagate it; when, being alone possessed
of it, their own people were to them prohne ? Did
heaven reveal it, to be kept a secret ?
'But the Bramins persisting in their silence : Let
them have the honourpf the secret, said an European.
Their doctrine is now divulged; we have their books ;.
I can give you the substance of it.
Then beginning with an abstract of the four Vedas,
the eighteen Pourrans, and the ﬁve or six Cha_stre.s,
he recounted how aBeing, inﬁoite,eternal,immateriaé
and round, after having passed an eternity in contem
plating himself, and determining at last to manifest _
himself, separated the faculties of male and female
which were in him, and performed an act of genera
tion, of which the Lingaun remains an emblem ; how
that ﬁrst act gave birth to three divine powers, Bra
ma, Bichenor Vi’chenou, and C/rib or C/u'vcn*; whose
cover any mischief that would ensue, I (.ail the imaginary
chest that contains them, the box of Pandora
' These names are di'li.ei~ei\tly_ pronounced according to the
different dialects; thus they say Blrma/l, Brmnma, Br:/umd.
.152 GHAPTER XXI.
functions were, the ﬁrst to create, the second to pre
servc, and the third to destroy, or change the form of
the universe. Then, detailing the history of their
operations and adventures,he explained how Brama,
proud of having created the world and the eight
B06ouns,'or spheres, of probation, thought himself
superior to Chib, his equal: how his pride brought
on a battle between them, in which these celestial
globes were crushed like a basket of eggs; how
Brama vanquished in this conﬂict, was reduced to
serve as a pedestal to Chib, metamorphosed into af
Lingam; how Vichen0u,the God mediator, has taken
at different times, to preserve the world, nine mortal
forms of animals; how ﬁrst,. in shape of a ﬁsh, he
saved from the universal deluge a family who repea
pled the earth; how afterwards, in form of a tor.1
toise*, he drew from the sea of milk the mountain
Mandreguiri (the pole) ; then, becoming a boar, he
tore the belly of the giant Ereuniac/lessen, who was
drowning the earth in the abyss of Djole ,- whence
Bichen has been turned into Vic/ren by the easy exchange of a
B for a V, and into Vichenau by means ofagrammatical aﬁix.
In the same manner Chib, which is synonimous with Satan,
and signiﬁes adversary, is frequently written Cliilra and
Clliv.en ,' he is called also Rouder and Ruutr-en, that is, the
destroyer.
' This is the constellation testudo, or the lyre, which was
at ﬁrst a tortoise, on account of its slow motion roundthe
Pole ; then a lyre, because it is the shell of this reptile on
Which the strings ofthe lyre are mounted. See an excellent
memoir of M. Dujluie rur l‘origine dc: Conste!1ations,in
quarto.
CHAPTER XXI.’ 1&3
hedrew it out with his tusks; how, becoming in
carnate in ablack shepherd, and under the name .lf
C/irisben, he delivered the world of the enormous
serpent Calengam ; and then crushed his head, after
having been wounded by him in the heel.
Then, passing on to the history of the secondary
Genii, he related how the Eternal, to display his own
glory,created various orders of angels ; whose busi'
ness it was to sing his praises and to direct the uni
verse ; how a part of these angels revolted under the.
guidance of an ambitious chief, who strove to usurp
the power of God, and to govern all ; how God plun
ged them into a world of darkness, there to undergo
the punishment of their crimes; how at last, touched
with compassion, he consented to release them, to re
ceive them into favour,.after they should go through
along series ofprobations; how, after creating for
this purpose ﬁfteen orbits or regions of planets, and
peopling them with bodies, he ordered these rebel
angels to undergo in them eighty-seven transmigra-
tions ; he then explained how souls, thus puriﬁed,
returned to the ﬁrst source, to the ocean of life and.
animation, from which they had proceeded; and since
ali living creatures contain portions of this universal
soul, he taught how criminal it was to deprive them
of it. He was ﬁnally proceeding to explain the rites
and ceremonies; when, speaking of offerings and
lilntions of milk and butter made to Gods of copper
and wood, and then ot pu: iﬁcations by the dung and
urine of cows. there arose a universal murmur, mix''
ed with. peais of 'laughter, which interrupted the
orator.
O. 2
154: CHAPTER XXI.
\ Each of the different groups began to reason on
that religion : They are idolaters, said the Mussul-
men ; it is our duty to exterminate them. They are
deranged in their intellect, said the followers of Com
fuscius ; we must try to cure them. What charming
Gods, said others, are these puppets, besmeared with
grease and smoke ! Gods to be washed like dirty
children ; and from whom you must brush away the
ﬁies, attracted by honey, and fouling them with their
excrements.
But a Bramin exclaimed with indignation : These
are profound mysteries, emblems of truth, which
you are not worthy to hear.
And in what respect are you more worthy than
We ? exclaimed a Lama of Tibet. Is it becaus you
pretend to have issued from the head of Brama, and
the rest of the human race from the less noble parts
of his body ? But to support the pride of your dis-_
tinctions of origin and casts, protie to us in the ﬁrst
place that you are different from other men ; establish,
in the next place, as historical facts, the allegories
which you relate ; show us indeed that you are the
authors of all this doctrine ; for we will demonstrate,
if necessary, thatyou have only stolen and disﬁgured
it ; that you are only the imitators of the ancient pa
ganism of the \Nest ;. to which, by an ill assorted
mixture, you have allied the pure and spiritual doc
trine of our Gods* ; a doctrine totally detached from
' All the ancient opinions of the Egyptian and Grecian the-
alogians arc to be found in India, and they appeal: 10 hay:
CHAPTER XXI. 155
the senses, and entirely unknown on earth, till Betldou
taught it to the nations.
A number of groups having asked what was this
doctrine, and who was this God, of whom the greater
part had never heard the name, the Lama resumed
and said:
\
In the beginning, a sole-existent and self-existent
God, having passed an eternity in the contemplation
of his own being, resolved to manifest his perfection:
out of himself, and created the matter of the world 5'
the four elements being produced, but still in a state
of confusion, he breathed on the face of the waters,
which swelled like an immense bubble in form of an
egg, which, unfolding, became the vault or orb of the
sky, enclosing the world‘; having made the earth
been introduced, by means of the commerce of Arabia and
the vicinity of Persia, time immemorial
‘ s This cosrnogony of the Lamas, the Bones, and ever)
the Bramins, as Henry Lord asserts, is literally that ofthe an
Qient. Egyptians. The Egyptians, .says Porphyry, call Kneph,
intelligence, or eﬁicient cause of the universe. They relate
ihat this God vomited an egg, from which was produced
another God named Phtha or Vulcan, (igneous principle on
the sun) and they add, that this egg isthc world, Euseb.
Prxp.Evang. p. 115.
They represent, says the same author in another pktce, the
God Kneph, or eﬁicient cause, under the form of a man in
ieep blue (the colour of the sky) having in his hand a scep
he, a belt round his body, and a small bonnet ro_\ al of hght
feathers on his head, to denote how very subtile and fogs
356 CHAPTER XXI;
and the bodies of animals, this God, essence of mo
tion, imparted to them a part of his own being, to ani
mate them ; for this reason, the soul of every thing
that breathes being a portion of the universal soul,. no
one of them can perish ; they only change their form
and mould in passing successively into rlifferent bo
dies : of all these forms, the one most pleasing to God
is that of man, as most resembling his own perfec
tions : \Vhen a man, by an absolute disengagement
from his senses, is wholly absorbed in the contempla
tion of himself, he then discovers the divinity, and be
' comes himself God: of all the incarnations of this
kind that God has hitherto taken, the greatest and
most solemn was that in which he appéared three
thousand years ago, in Kachemire, under the name
of F0! or Bcddou. to preach the doctrine oi self-denial,
and self-annihilation. Then, pursuing the history of
Fm, the Lama said : He was born from the right ﬂank
of avirgin of royal blood, who did not cease to be a
virgin for having become a mother ; that the king of
the country, uneasy at his birth, wished to destroy
him, and for this purpose ordered a massacre of all
the males born at that period; that being saved by
shepherds, Betldou lived in the desert till_».the age of
thirty years ; at which time he began his=nlission, to
enlighten men and cast out devils ; that he perform
ed "a multitude of the most astonishing miracles;
that he spent his life in fasting and severe penitence,
0ious the idea ofthat being is. Upon Which I shall observe,
that Kneph in Hebrew signiﬁes a wing, a feather, and that
tins colour of sky 'blue is to be found in the majority of the
1“(i‘i1ll Gods, and as, under the name of Narayan, one of their
most distmguishing epithet»
GHAPTER XXI. 157'
and at his death, bequeathed to his disciples abook
which contained his doctrines : and the Lama began
to read :
He that leaveth his father and mother to follow
me, says Fot, becomes aperfect Samanean (aheaven,
. ly man).
He that practises my precepts to the fourth de
gree of perfection, acquires the faculty of ﬂying in
the air, of .moving heaven and earth, of prolonging
or shortening his life (rising from the dead).
The Samanean despises riches, and uses only what
is strictly necessary ; he mortiﬁes his body, silences
his passions, desires nothing, forms no attachments,
medidates my doctrines without ceasing, endures
injuries with patience, and bears no malice to his
neighbour.
Heaven and earth shall perish, says Fot; despise
therefore your bodies, which are composed of the
four perishable elements, and think only of your im
mortal souls.
Listen not to the ﬂesh: fear and sorrow spring
from the passions : stiﬂe the passions, and you des-_
troy fear and sorrow.
Whoever dies without having embraced my re
ligion, says Fot, returns among men, until he em-i
braces it.
158 CHAPTER XXI.
The Lama was going on with his reading, when
the Christians interrupted him, crying out that this
was their own religion adulterated ; that F0: was no
other than Jesus himself disﬁgured; and that the
Lamas were the Nestorians and the Manicheans dis
guised and bastardiscd.
‘ But the Lama*, supported by the Chamans,
" This is asserted by our missionaries, and among others
by Georgi in his unﬁn‘shed work of the Thibetan alphabet :
but ifit can be proved that the Manichean_s were but plagia
rists, and the ignorant echo of :2. doctrine that existed ﬁfteen
hundred years before them, what becomes of the declarations
of Georgi ? See upon this subject, Beausob. .Hist. du.
Manicheisme. '
But the Lama dﬂnan:tratcd, etc. The eastern writers in
general agree in placing the birth of Beddou 1027 years he
' fore Jesus Christ, which makes him the contemporary of
Zoroaster, with whom, in my opinion, they confound him. It
is certain that his doctrine notoriously existed at that epoch ;
it is Found entire in that of Orpheus, Pythagoras, and the
Indian gymnosophists. But the gymnosophists are cited at
the time of Alexander as an ancient sect already divided into
Brachrnans and Samaneans. See Bart/esancs en Saint Jerome,
Ejiitre d Jovian. Pythagoras livedin the ninth century before
Jesus Christ ; See Chronology ofthe twelve ages ; and Ur.
pheus is of still greater antiquity. if., as is the case, the doc
trine of Pythagoras and that of Orpheus are of'Egyptiaii ori
gin, that of Beddou goes back to the common source ; and
in reality the Egyptian priests recite, that Hermes as he was
dying said ; I have hitherto lived an exile from my country,
to which 1 now return. Weep not for me, I ascend to the
celestial abode where each of you will follow in his turn :
CHAPTER XXI.. '15!
Bonzcs, Gonnis, Talapoins 0Q Siam, of Ceylon, of
.Japan, and China, proved to the Christians, even
from their own authors, that the doctrine of the
Samaneans was known through the East inore than
a thousand years before the Christian era; that their
name was cited before the time of Alexander, and
there God is : this life is only death.—Chalcidius in
Thinxum.
Such was the profession of faith of_ the Samaneans,
the sectaries of Orpheus, and the Pythagoreans. Farther,
Hermes is no other than Beddou himself ; for among the
Indians, Chinese, Lamas. etc. the planet Mercury and the
corresponding day of’ the week (Wednesday) bear the name
of Beddou, and this accounts for his being placed in the rank
of lllythological beings, and discovers the illusion of his pre
tended existence as a man; since it is evident that Mercmy
was not a human being, but the Genius or Decan, \\'ll(),
placed at the summer solstice, opened the Egyptian year;
hence his attributes taken from the constellation Syrius, and
his name of Anubis, as well as that of Esculapius, having
the ﬁgure of a man and the head of a dog: hence his ser
pent, which is the Hydra, emblem of the N|le (Hydor,
humidity) ; and from this serpent he seems Ufhave derived
his name of Hermes, as ltemes (with a schin) in the oriental
languages, signiﬁes serpent. Now Beddou and Hermes,
being the same names, it ..s manifest of what antiquity is the
system ascribed to the former. As to the name of Samaneam
itis precisely that of Cham an, preserved in Tartary, China,
and India. The interpretation gi"en to it is, man of the
Woods, a hermit mortifying the ﬂesh, such being the charac
teristic of this sect; but its literal meaning is, C€l€stia|
(Samaoui) and explains the system of those who are called
by it.-The system is the same as that of the seetaries of Or
pheus,ot'the Esscnians, ofthe ancient Anchorets ofPersiaand
the whole eastern country. See Porphyry, de Abstin. Animal:
160 CHAPTER XXI.
that Bautta, or Beddou, was known before Jesus.
Then, retorting the pretensions of the Christians
against themselves: Prove to us, said the Lama,
that you are not Samaneans degenerated; and that
the man whom you make the author of your sect is
not Fot himself disﬁgured. Prove_ to us, by histori
cal farts, that he even existed at the epoch you pre
tend’: for, it being destitute ol authentic testimony,
These celestial and penitent men carried in India their in
sanity to such an extreme as to wish not to touch the earth,
and they accordingly li\ ed in cages suspended from the trees,
where the people, whose admiration was not less absurd,
brought them provisions. During the night there were fre
quent robberies, rapes and murders, and it was at length
discovered that they were committed by those men, who,
descending from their cages, thus indemniﬁed themselves
for their restrail\t during the day. The Bi amins. their
rivals, (:lT1b|aC(.(l the opportunity of ext:'xminnting them ;
and from that time their name in India has been synonimous
with hypocrite. See Hist. de la Chine, in 5 vols. quarto, at
the note page 30; Hist. de Huns, 2 vols. and preface to the
Ezour-Vedam.
* There are absolutely no other monuments of the exist
ence of Jesus Christ as a human being, than a passage in
Josephus (Antiq. Jud. lib. 18. c 3) :1 single [)ll1'i;5(I in Taci
tus (AmldL lib. 15 C. 44.), and the Gospels. But the pas
sage inJosephus is unanimously acknowledged to be apocry
phal, and to have been interpolated towards the close of the
third century, ('See Tran’. de Joseph, par M. Gills!) ,' and'
that ofTacitus is so vague and so evidently taken from the
deposition of the Christians before the tribunals, that it nmy
be rlmkud in the class of evangelical records. It remains
to enquire of what authority are these records. '” “ All the
World knows,” says Faustus, who, though a Maniehean,
_ 8
CHAPTER XXL I61
we absolutely deny it’; and we maintain that yourvery
gospels are only the books of some ltlithriacs of Per
sia, and Essenians of Syria, who werea branch of
reformed Samaneans*.
At these words, the Christians set up agcn<':ral
cry, and a newxlispute was going to begin ; when 9.
number of Chinese Chamans, and Talajioins of Siam,
came forward, and said that they would settle the
was one of the most learned men of the third century, “All the
worldknows that the gospels were neither written by Jesus
Christ, nor his apostles, but by certain unknown Persons, who
rightly judging that they should not ohtain belief respecting
things which they had not seen, placed at the head of their
recitals the names of contemporary apostles.” See Beausab.
vol. i. and Hist. dc: Apologirtec de la Relig. Chret. [Mr Eurig1u',_
a sagacious writer, who has demonstrated the absolute uncer
tainty of' those foundations ofthe Christi'.ui religion ; so that
the existence of Jesus is no better proved than that of Osiris
and Hercules, or that ot'F6t or Beddou, with whom, says ~ M.
de Guignes, the Chinese continually confound him, for they
never call Jesus by any other name than F6t. 11Is£.de Hum.
* That is to say, from the pious romances formed out of'
the sacred legends of the mysteries of Mithra, Ceres, Isis,
em. from whence are equally derived the books of the Hi“.
docs and the Bonxes. Our missionaries have long remarked
a striking rewmblance between those books and the gos.
pels. M. \\’ilkins expressly mentions it in a note in the
Bhagvat Geeta. All agree that Krisna, 1‘.6t, and Jesus have
the same cliamcteristie features; but religious prejudice has
stood in the way of drawing from this circumstance the
proper and nntin.at inference, To time and reason must it be
leftto display the truth.
P
l62 CHAPTER XXI.
whole controversy. And one of them speaking for
the whole: It is time, said he, to put an end to
these frivolous contests by drawing aside the veil
from the interior doctrine that Fot himself revealed
to his disciples on his tleath-izoed.’lb
All these theological opinions, said be, are but chi
meras : allthe stories of the nature of the Gods, of
their actions and their lives, are but allegories.and
mythological emblems, under which are enveloped
ingenious ideas of momls, and the knowledge of the
operations of nature in the action of the elements and
the movement of the planets.
\ The truth is, that all is reduced to nothing ; that
all is illusion, 2.lppeztrance, dream ; that the moral me
tcmpsycliosis is only the ﬁgurative sense of the physi
cal metempsychosis, or the"s’uccessive movementofthe
elements, of bodies which perish not,but, having com
posed one body, pass, when that is dissolved, into
other mediums, and form other combinations. The
soul is but the vital principle which results from the
properties of matter, and from the action of the ele
* The Budsoists have two doctrines, the one public and
ostensible, the other interior and secret, precisely like the
Egyptian priests. It may be asked, why this distinction 2 it
is, that as the public doctrine recommends olferings, expia
tions, endowments, etc. the priests ﬁnd their proﬁt in preach
ing it to the people ; whereas the other, teaching the vanity of
worldly things, and attended with no iucre, it is thought pro
per to make it known only to adepts. Can the teachers and
followers of this .religion be better classed than under the
heads ofl:.n:wer’\'_and credulity 3
_
cnurnn XXI. ' J63
ments in those bodies where they create a spontane
ous movement. To suppose that this product of the
play ofthe organs,born with them,matured with them,
and which sleeps with them, can subsist when they
cease; is the romance of a wandering imagination,
perhaps agreeable enough, but really chimerical.
God itself is nothing more than the moving princi
ple, the occult force inherent in all beings, the sum
of their laws and their properties, the animating prin
oiplel ; in a word, the soul of the universe ; which, on
account of the inﬁnite variety of its connexions and
oi'.its operations, sometimes simple, sometimes mul
tiple; sometimes active, sometimes passive, has al
ways presented to the human mind an insolvable
enigma. All that man can comprehend with cer
tainty is, that matter does not perish ; that it pos
sesses essentially those properties by which the world
is held together, like a living and organized being ;
that the knowledge of these laws with respect to man
is what constitutes wisdom; that virtue and merit_
consist in their observance ; and evil, sin, and vice,
'in the ignorance and violation of them ; that happi
ness and rifisery result from these by the same neces
sity which makes hcavy bodies descend and light ones
rise, and by a fatality of causes and elifects, whose
chain éxtends from the smallest atom to the greatest
of the heavenly bodies.‘
_
' These are the very expressions of La Loubre, in his des
cription of the kingdom of Siam and the theology of the
Bronzes. Their dogmas, eomparecl with those oi. the
ancient philosophers of Greece and Italy, give a complete
representation ofthe whole system of the Stoics and Epicuf
164 CHAPTER XXI.
At these words, a crowd of theologians of everysect,
\ cried out that this doctrine was materialism, andthose
who profess it were impious atheists, enemies toGod
and man, who must be exterminated. Very well !
replied the C/iamans, suppose we are in an error,
which is not impossible, since the ﬁrst attribute of
/\'._ the human mind is to be subject to illusion ; but what
right have you to take away from men, like your
selves, the life which heaven has given them ? If
heaven holds us guiltyand in abhorrence, why doesit
impart to us the same blessings as to you? And if it
treats us with forbearance, what authority have you to
be less indulgent? Pious men ! who speak of God.
with so much certainty and conﬁdence, be so good as
to tell us what it is ; give us to comprehend what
those abstract and metaphysical beings are, which you
call God and Soul, substance without matter, exist
ence without body, life without organs or sensatio_n,
If you know those beings by your senses or their re
ﬂections, render them in like manner perceptible to
us ; or if you speak of them on testimony and tradi
tion, show us a uniform account, and give a determin
ed basis to our creed. 3
There now arose among the theologians a great
controversy respecting God and his nature, his man
ner of acting, and of rnaniﬁavting himself; on the na-'
tare of the soufand its union with the body; whether
it exists beforethe organs,or only after they are form
ed; on the future life, and the other world. And
Peans, mixed with astrological superstitions, and some traits
' of l’_\.tliagorism.
CHAPTER XXI. l65
every sect, every school, every individuaLdlﬁ'ering on
all these points, and each assigning plausible reasons,
and respectable though opposite authorities, for his
opinion, they fell into an inextricable labyrinth of con
tradictions.
Then the Lawgiver, having commanded silence,
and recalledthe dispute to its true object, said: Chiefs
and instructors ofnations, you came together in search
of truth ; at ﬁrst, every one of you, thinking he poss
essed it, demanded of the others an implicit faith ;
but, perceiving the contrariety of your opinions, you
found it necessary to submit them to a common rule
ofevidence, and to bring them to one general term of
comparison ; and you agreed that each should exhibit
the proofs of his doctrine. You began by alleging
facts; but each religion and every sect,being equally
furnished with miracles and martyrs, each producing
an equal cloud of witnesses, and offering to support
them by a voluntary death,the balance on this ﬁrst
point, by right ofparity, remained equal.
You then passed to the trial ofreasoning : but the
same arguments applying equally to contrary posi
tions ; the same assertions, equally gratuitous, being
advanced and repelled with equal force, and all having
an equal right to refuse his assent, nothing was de
monstrated. What is more, the confrontation ofyour
systems has brought up new and extraordinary diﬁi
culties ; for amidst the apparent or adventitious di
versities, you have discovered a fundamental resemb
lance, a common ground'work ; and each of you pre
tending to be the inventor and ﬁrst depository, you
r 2
ms CHAPTER XXI.
have taxed each other with adulterations and plagiar
isms ; and thence arises a diﬁicult question concern
ing thetransmission of religious ideasfrom people to
people.
Finally, to complete the embarassment, when you
endeavoured to explain your doctrines to each other,
they appeared confused and foreign, even to their
adherents; they were founded on ideas inaccessible
to your senses; of consequence you had no means
of judging of them, and you confessed yourselves in
this respect to be only the echoes of your fathers.
Hence follows this other question: how came they
to the knowledge of your fathers, who themselves
had no other means than you to conceive them? so
that, on the one hand, the succession of these ideas
being unknown, and, on the other, their origin and
existence being a mystery, all the ediﬁce of your
religious opinions becomes a complicated problem
of metaphysics and history.
Since, however, these opinions, extraordinary as
they may be, must have had some origin; since even
the most abstract and fantastical ideas have some
physical model, it may be useful to recur to this
origin, and discover this model; in a word, to ﬁnd
out from what source the human understanding has
drawn these ideas, at present so obscure, of God,
of the soul, of all immaterial beings, which make
the basis of so many systems : to unfold the ﬁliation
which they have followed, andthe adulterations which
they have undergone in their transmissions and their
CHAPTER XXI» 161
ramiﬁcations. i If then there are any persons present
who have made a study of these objects, let them
come forward andendeavour, in the face of nations,
to dissipate the obscurity in Which their opinions
have so long strayed.
CHAPTER XXII.
ORIGIN AND FIXJATXON OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS.
3
A T these words, a new group, formed in an im
stant by men from various standards, but not distin
guished by any, came forward in the circle ; and
one of them spoke in the name of the whole.
Delegates, friends of evidence ahd virtue, it is not
astonishing that the subject in question should be
enveloped in so many clouds ; since, besides its in
herent diﬂiculties, though itself has always been en
cumbered with superadded obstacles peculiar to this
study, where all free enquiry and discussionhave
been interdkted by the intolerance of every system.
But now that our views are permitted to expand, we
‘ will expose to open day, and submit to the judgment
of nations, that which unprejudiced minds, after
long researches, have found to be the most reasona
ble ; and we do this, not with the pretension of im
posing a new creed, but with the hope of provoking
.new lights, and obtaining better information.
cnaﬁrma xxn. 159
rs =
e
\
r
1
Doctors and instructors of nations! You_ .know
what thick darkness covers the nature, the origin,
.. the history of the dogmas which you teach. Imposed
by authority, inculcated by education, and maintain
ed by example, they pass from age to age, and
strengthen their empire from habit and inattention.
But ifman, enlightened by reﬂection and experience,
brings to mature examination the prejudices of his
childhood, he soon discovers a multitude of incon
gruities and contradictions which awaken his sagacity,
and excite his reasoning powers.
_ At ﬁrst, remarking the diversity and opposition of
the creeds which divide thenations, he takes courage
against the infallibility which each of them claims;
and arming himself with their reciprocal pretensions,
he conceives that his senses and his reason, derived
immediately_ from God, are a law not less holy, a
guide not less sure, than the mediate and contradic
tory codes of the prophets.
If he then examines' the texture of these codes
_ themselves, be observes that their laws, pretended to
be divine,that is, immutable and eternal, have arisen
from circumstances of times, places, and persons;
that they have issued, one from the other, in a kind
of genealogical order, borrowing from each other
reciprocally a common and similar fundof ideas,
which every lawgiver modiﬁes according to his
fancy.
If he ascends toithe source of these ideas, he ﬁnds
“ 5 wolved in thenight of time, in the infancy of ha
,_
172 CHAPTER XXIK.
the elements; sometimes the sun, the stars, the
planets, and their inﬂuence; sometimes the matter
of the visible world, the totality of the universe;
sometimes abstract and metaphysical qualities, such
as space, duration, motion, intelligence ; and we
every where see this conclusion, that the idea of God
has not beena miraculous revelation of invisible be
ings, but a natural offspring of the human intellect,
an operation of the mind, whose progress it has [01
lowed, and whose revolutions it has undergone, in all
the progress that has been made in the knowledge
of the physical world and its agents.
It is then in vain that nations.attribute their re
ligion to heavenly inspirations ; it'is in vain that their
dogmas pretend to a primeval state of supernatural
events; the original barbarity of the human race,
_ attested by their own monuments*, belies these as
.\ sertions at once. But there is one. constant and in
dubitahle fact which refutes beyond contradiction all
‘ these doubtful accounts of past ages. From this
position, that man acquires and receives no ideas but
through the medium of his scnsesT,it follows with
r .
" It is the unanimous testimony of history, and even of
legends, that the ﬁrst human beings were every where sava_
ges, and that it was to civilize them, and teach themto make
bread, that the Gods manifested themselves.
1' The tool: on which all the ancients have split, and which
has occasioned all their errors, has been their supposing the
.idea of God to be innate and co'eternal with the soul; and
hence all the reverics devoloped in Plato and.Jamblicus. See
the Timzus, the Phedon, and De Mysteriis Egyptiorum,
sect. 1. c. 3..
CHAPTER XXII. l7S
certainty that every notion which claims to itself any
other origin than that of sensation and experience,
is the erroneous suppositionofa postcrior reasoning :
now, it is sufﬁcient to cast an eye upon the sacred
systems of the origin of the world, and ofthe actions
of the Gods, to discover in every idea, in every word,
the anticipation of an order of things which could
not exist till a long time after. Reason, strengthened
by these contradictions, rejecting every thing that is
not in the order of nature, and admitting no histori
cal facts but those founded on probabilities, lays open
its own system, and pronounces itselfwith assurance.
Before one nation had received from another na
tion dogmas already invented ; before one genera
tion had inherited ideas acquired by a preceding
generation, none of these complicated systems could
have existed in the world. The ﬁrst men, being
c_hildren of nature, anterior to all events, ignorant of
all science, were born without any idea of the dogmas
arising from scholastic disputes ; of rites founded on
the practice of arts not then known ; of precepts fram
ed after the developement of passions ; or of laws
which suppose a language, Estate of society not then
in being; or ofGod, whose attributes all refer to phy
sical objects, and his actions to a despotic state of go
vernment ; or of the soul, or of any of these metaphy
sical beings, which, we aré told, are not the objects _ ‘
of sense, and for which, however, there can he no
other means of access to the understanding. To ar
riveat so many results, the necessary circle of preced
ing facts must have been observed ; slow experience
and repeated trials must have taught the rude man
Q
'I
174- CHAPTER XXII.
the use of his organs ; the accumulated knowledge’
of successive generations must have invented and im
proved the means ofliving ; and the mind, freed from
the cares of the ﬁrst wants of nature, must have rais‘
ed itself to the complicated art of comparing ideas,
of digesting arguments, and seizing abstract simili
tudes. '
‘ §.1.
origin of the idea of God : Worshi/2 of the elements;
and Q/'the jxhysicaljmwerc of nature.
It was not till after having overcome these obsta
cles, and gone through a long career in the night of
history, that man, reﬂecting on his condition, began
to perceive that he was subjected to forces superior
to his own, and independent of his will. The sun en
lightened and warmed him, the ﬁre burned him, the
thunder terriﬁed him, the wind beat upon him, the
water overwhelmed him. All beings acted upon him
powerfully and irresistibly. He sustained this action
for a long time, like amachine, without enquiring the
cause ; but the moment he began his enquiries, he
fell into astonishment ; and, passing from the sur
prise of the ﬁrst thought to the reverie of curiosity,
he began a chain of reasoning.
v'‘.__
First, considering the action of the elements on
him, be conceived an idea of weakness and subjection
on his part, and of power and domination on theirs ;
and this idea of power was the primitive and funda- .
mental type ofevery idea of God.
Secondly, the action of these natural existenccs ex
cited in him sensations ofpleasure or pain, of good or 5-}; .
.
evil ; and, by a natural effect of his organization, he 1 ..
conceived for them love or aversion ; he desired orl
176 CHAPTER XXII.
dreaded their presence ; and fear or hope gave rise to
the ﬁrst idea of religion.
\ Then, judging every thing by comparison, and re
marking in these beings a spontaneous movement like
his own, be supposed this movement directed by a.
will, an intelligence, of the nature of his own; and
hence, by induction, he formed a new reasoning. Hav
ing experienced that certain practices towards his
fellow creatures had the effect to modify their affec
tions and direct their conduct to his advantage, he re
_ sorted to the same practices towards these powerful
beings of the universe. He reasoned thus with him
self: VVhen my fellow creature, stronger than I, is
disposed to do me hurt, I abase myself before him,
and my prayer has the art to calm him. I will pray
to these powerful beings who strike me. I will sup
plicate the intelligences .of the winds, of the stars, of
the waters, and they will hear me. I will conjure
them to avert the evil, and give me the good that are"
at their diposal ; I will move them by my tears, I will
s'often them by offerings; and I will be happy.
\ Thus simple man,in the infancy ofhis reason, spoke
to the sun and to the moon; he animated, with his own
understanding and passions, the great agents of na
ture ; he thought by vain sounds, and vain actions, to
change their inﬂexible laws: fatal error ! he prayed
the stone to ascend, the water to mount above its le
t.'cl, the mountains to remove ; and, substituting a
phantastical world to the real one, he peopled it with
imaginary beings, to the terror of his mind and the
torment ofhis race. '
I -I '
CHAPTER XXII. 177
do this manner the ideas of God and religion have
sprung, like all others, frorn_ physical objects; they
' were producedin the mind of man from his sensations,
from his wants, from the circumstances ofhis life, and
the progressive state of his knowledge.
Now, as the ideas of God had their ﬁrst models in
physical agents, it followed that God was at ﬁrst va
ried and manifold, like the form under which be ap
peared to act. Everykein \Va§j}__I:p“’i__u_c;r K_Q_QLiiE_8 ,
and the ﬁrst men conceived the universe ﬁlled with
innumerable Gods.
Again,the ideas of Godhave been created by the
affections of the human heart; they became necessa
rily divided into two classes, according to the sensa
tions of pleasure or pain, love or hatred, which they
inspired ; the powers of nature, the Gods, the Genii,
were divided into bcneficmt and malignant, good and
evil ones ; and hence the universality of these two
characters in all the systems of religion.
These ideas, analogous to the condition of their
inventors, were for a long time confused and ill
digested. Savage men, wandering in the woods, be
set with wants and destitute of resources, had not the
leisure to combine principles and draw conclusions ;
affected with more evils than they found pleasures,
their most habitual sentiment was that of fear, their
theology terror ; their worship was conﬁned to a
few salutations and offerings to beings whomthey
conceived as ferocious and as greedy as themselves.
In their state of equality and independence, no man,
q '2
in CHAPTER xxn.
offered himsedf as mediator between men and Gods
as insubordinate and poor as himself. No man hav
ing superﬁuities to give, there existed no parasite by
the name of priests, no tribute by the name of victim,
no empire by the name of altar: their dogmas and
their morals were the same thing, it was only self
preservation ; and religion, that arbitrary idea, with
out inﬂuence on the mutual relations of men, was a
vain homage rendered to the visible powers of
nature.
Such was the necessary and original idea of God.
And the orator, addressing himself to the savage
jaations : We appeal to you, men who have received
no foreign and factitious ideas ; tell us, have you ever
gone beyond what 1 have described? And you, learn
ed doctors, we call you to witness; is not this the
unanimous testimony of all ancient monuments ?*
I It clearly results, says Plutarch, from the verses of Or
pheus and the sacred books of the Egyptians and Phrygians,
that the ancient theology, not only of the Greeks, but of all
nations, was nothing more than a system of physics, a pic.
/ture of the operations of nature, wrapped up in mysterious
allegories and enigmatical symbols, in a manner that the ig
norant multitude atteudod rather to their apparent than to
their hidden meaning, and even in what they understood of
the latter, supposed there to be something more deep than
what they perceived. Fragment of ahvork of Plutarch now
lost, quoted by Eusebius, Proepar. Evang. lib: .:3, ch. 1,
p. 83.
The majority ofphilosophers, says Porphyry, and, among
others, Harrcmon (who lived in Egyptin the ﬁrst age of
§. 2.
Second system: Worshiji qf the stars, or
' sabcism.
But those same monuments present us likewise a
system more methodical and more complicated, that
or the worship of all the stars, adored sometimes in
their proper forms, sometimes under the ﬁgurative
emblems and symbols; and this worship was the
Christianity), imagine there never to have been any other
world than the one we see, and acknowledge no other Gods
of all those recognized by the Egyptians, than such as are
commonly called planets, signs of the Zodiac, and constella.
tions ; whose aspects, that is, rising and setting, are suppos
ed to inﬂuence the fortunes of men; to which they add their
divisions of the signs into decans and dispensers of time,
whom they style lords of the ascendant, whose names, vir.
rues in the relieving distempers, rising, setting, and press.
ges of future events, are the subjects of almsnacs (for be it
observed, that the Egyptian priests had almanacs the exact
counterpart of Matthew L.'msberg’s) ; for when the priests
aﬁirmed thatthe sun was the architect ofthe universe, Chau
remon presently concludes that all their narratives respect
ing lsis and Osiris, together with their other sacred fables,
referred in part to the planets, the phases of the moon, and
the revolution of the sun, and in part to the stars of the daily
and nightly hemispheres, and the river Nile ; in a Word, in
all cases to physical andnatural existcliees, and never to such
as might be immaterial and incorporcal....All these philoso
phers believe that the acts of our will and the motion of our
bodies depend upon those ofthe stars to which they are set»
l 80 CHAPTER XXII.
effect of the knowledge men had acquired in physics,
and was derived immediately from the ﬁrst causes of
the social state ; that is, from the necessities and ‘
arts of the ﬁrst degree, which are among the ele
ments of society.
Indeed, as soon as men began to unite in society, it
became necessary for them to multiply the means of
subsistence, and consequently to attend to agricul
ture ; agriculture, to be carried on with success, re
quires the observation and knowledge of the_ hea
vens_"'. it was necessary to know the periodical re
turn of the same operations of nature, and the same
jected, and .they refer every thing to the laws of physical
necessity, which they call destiny, or Fatum, supposing a.
chain of causes and effects Which binds, by I know not what
connection, all beings together, from the meanest atom to
the snpremest power and primary inﬂuence of the Gods ; so
that, whether in their temples or in their idols, the only sub
ject of worship is the power of destiny. Porp/1)/r. Ejlist. ad
Janeboncm.
"' It continues to be repeated every day, on the indirect
authority of the book of Genesis, that astronomy was the
invention ofthe children of Noaln It has been gravely said,
that while wandering shepherds in the plains of Shinar, they
employed their leisure in composing a planetary system ; as
if shepherds had occasion to know more than the polar
star, and if necessity was not the sole motive of every inven
tion! If the ancient shepherds were so studious and saga
cious,how does it happen that the modern ones"are so stupid,'
ignorant, and inattentive ? And it is a fact, that the Arabs of
the.desert know not so many as six constellations, and \ll'Kl€l'.
stand not a word ofaatronomy.
CHAPTER XXII. ._1s1
phenomena in the skies ; indeed, to go so far as to
ascertain the duration and succession of the seasons
and the months of the year. It was indispensable to
know, in the ﬁrst place, the course of the sun, who,
in his zodiacal revolution, shows himself the supreme
agent of the whole creation ; then, of the moon, who,
by her phases and periods, regulates and distributes
time ; then, of the stars, and even of the planets,
which by their appearance and disappearance on the
horizon and nocturnal hemisphere, marked the mi
nutest divisions. Finally, it was necessary to form a
whole system of astronomy, or a calendar; and from
these works there naturally followed a new manner
of considering these predominant and governing pow
ers. Having observed that the productions of the
earth had a regular and constant relation with the
heavenly bodies ; that the rise, growth,and decline of
each plant kept pace with.the appearance, exaltation,
and declination of the same star, or the same group
of stars ; in short, that the languor or activity of ve
getation seemed to depend on celestial inﬂuences,
men drew from thence an idea of action, of power, in
those beings, superior to earthly bodies ; and the
stars dispensing plenty or scarcity, became powers,
genii*, gods, authors of good and evil.
* It appears that by the word genius, the ancients denoted
9, quality, a generative power ; for the following words,
which are all of one family, convey this meaning : generare,
genos, genesis, genus, gens .
The Sabeans, ancient and modern, says Mahonides, ac
knowledge a principal God, the maker and inhabitant of
heaven; but on account of his great distance, they conceive
iL
€HAPTER XXII.
A
-1
18
As the state of society had already introduced a
regular hierarchy of ranks, employments and condi
tions, men, continuing to reason by comparison, car
ried their new notions into their theology, and formed
a complicated system of divinities by gradation of
rank ; in which the sun, as ﬁrst God, was a military
chief or a political king ; the moon was his wife and
queen; the planets were servants, bearers of com
mands, messengers ; and the multitude of stars were
a nation, an army of heroes, genihwhose ofﬁce was to
govern the world under the orders of their chiefs.
Allthe individuals had names, functions, attributes,
drawn from their relations and inﬂuences ; and even
sexes, from the gender oftheir appellations.*
And as the social state had introduced certain usa
ges and ceremonies, religion, keeping pace with the
social state, adopted similar ones ; these ceremonies,
at ﬁrst simple and private, became public and so
lemn ; the offerings became rich and more numerous,
him to be inaccessible ; and in imitation of the conduct of
people towards their kings, they employ as mediators with
him the planets and their angels, whom they call princes and
potentates, and whom they suppose to reside in those lumin‘
ous bodies as in palaces or tabernacles, etc. More'Nebucliim,
far: 3. c. 29. .
’ According as the gender of the object was in the lan
guage of the nation masculine or feminine, the Divinity who
bore its name was male or female. Thus the Cappodocians
called the moon God, and the sun Goddess ; a circumstance
Which giv'cs}o the same beings a perpetual variety in ancient
mythology. .
!5
CHAPTER xxn. ? we
and the rites"more methodical ,"' they assigned cer
tain places for the assemblies, and began to have cha-
pels and temples ; they instituted ofﬁcers to adminis
ter them, and these became priests and pontiffs ; they
established liturgies, and sanctiﬁed. certain days, and
religion became acivil act, a political tie.
But in this arrangement, religion did not change
its ﬁrst principles ; the idea of God was always that
of physical beings, operating good or hurt, that is,
impressing sensations of pleasure or pain : the dogma
was the knowledge of their laws, or their manner of
acting; virtue and sin, the observance or infraction; _.5_
of these laws; and morality, in its native simplicity, ’
was the judicious practice of whatever contributes to '
the preservation of existence, the well-being of onc’s
selfand his fellow creatures)’
Should it be asked at what epoch this system took
its birth, we shall answer, on the testimony of the
monuments of astronomy itself, that its principles
appear with certainty to have been established about
17,000 years ago? And if it is asked to what people
I P
* We may add, says l_"lutar'ch, that these Egyptian priests
always regarded the preservation of health as a point of ﬁrst
importance, and as indispensably necessary to the practice of
piety and the service of the Gods. See his account of Isis
and 0:1.1-is, towards the end.
fThe historical orator follows here the opinion of M.
Dupuis, who, in his learned memoir concerning the origin of
the constellations, has assigned many" plausible reasons to
prove that Libra was formerly the sign of the vernal,
and Aries of the autumnal equinox; that is, that since
\
l84 CHAPTER XXII.
it is to be attributed, we shall answer, that the same
monuments, supported by unanimous traditions, at
tribute it to the ﬁrst tribes of Egypt ; and when rea
son ﬁnds in that country all the circumstances which
could lead to such a system ; when it ﬁnds there a
zone of sky, bordering on the tropic, equally. free
from the rains of the equator and the fogs of the
North‘; when it ﬁnds there a central point. of the
the origin of the actual astronomical system, the pre
cession of the equinoxes has carried forward by seven
signs the prim itive order of the Zodiac. Now estimating
the precession at about seventy years and a half' to a de
gree, that is, 2115 years to each sign, ' and observing that
Aries was in its ﬁfteenth degree 144'7 years before Christ,
it follows that the ﬁrst degree of Libra could not have
coincided with the vernal equinox more lately than 15,194
years before Christ ; to whiclnf you add 1790 years since
Christ, it appears that 16,984 have elapsed since the origin of
the Zodiac. The ylzrnal equinox coincided with the ﬁrst de
gree of Aries 2564 years before Christ, and with the ﬁrst
degree of Taurus 4619 years before Christ. Now it is to be
observed, that the worship of the Bull is the principle article
in the theological creed ofthe Egyptians, Persians, Japanese,
etc.; from whence it clearly follows, that some general re
volution took place among these nations at that tirrie. The
chronology of ﬁve or six thousand years in Genesis is little
agreeable to this hypothesis; but as the book of Genesis
cannot claim to be considered as a history farther back than
Abraham, we are at liberty to make what arrangements we
please in the eternity that preceded.
iiM. Bailli, in placing the ﬁrst astronomers at Selingcnslmy,
near the Bailkal, paid no attention to this twofold circum.
stance : it equally argues against their being placed at
Axoum on account of the rains, and the Zimb ﬂy of which
Mr. Bruce speaks.
CHAPTER XXII. l85
sphere of the ancients, a salubrious climate, a great,
but manageable river, a soil fertile without art or
labour, inundated without morbid exhalations, and
placed between two seas which communicate with
the richest countries, it conceives that the inhabitant
of the Nile, addicted to agriculture from the nature of
his soil, to geometry from the annual necessity of
measuring his lands, to commerce from the facility
of communications, to astronomy from the state of
his sky, always open to observation, must have been
the ﬁrst to pass from the savage to the social state ;
and_ consequently to attain the physical and moral
sciences necessary to civilized life.
It was then on the borders of the upper Nile,
.among a black race of men, that was organized the
complicated system of the worship of the stars, con
sidered in relation to the productions of the earth
and the labours of agriculture; and this ﬁrst wor
ship, characterized by their adoration under their
.own forms and natural attributes, was a simple pro
ceeding of the human mind. But, in a short time,
the multiplicity of the objects of their relations, and
their reciprocal inﬂuence, having complicated the
ideas, and the signs that represented them there, fol
’lowed a confusion as singular in its cause as perni
cious in its effects.
§. 3.
T/iird system. lVorsjn'/1 of symbols of idolatry.
As soon as this agricultural people began to ob
serve the stars with attention, they found it necessa
ry to individualize or group them; and to assign to
each a proper name, in order to understand each
othcrin their designation. A great diﬁiculty must
have presented itself in this business : ﬁrst, the
heavenly bodies, similar in form, offered no distin
guishing characteristics by which to denominate
them ; and secondly, the language, in its infancy and
poverty, had no expression for so many new and me
taphysical ideas. Necessity, the usual stimulus of
genius, surmounted every thing. Having remarked
that in the annual revolution, the renewal and perio
dical appearance of terrestrial productions were con
stantly associated with the rising and setting of cer
tain stars, and to their position as relative to the sun,
the fundamental term of all comparison, the mind, by
a natural operation, connected in thought these ter
restrial and celestial objects, which were connected
in fact; and applying to them a common sign, it
gave to the stars, and their, groups the names of
the terrestrial objects to which they answered?‘
"' “ The ancients,” says Maimonides, “ directing all their
attention to agriculture, gave names to the stars derived
from their occupation during the year.” More Neb.[ban 3.
CHAPTER XXII. l87
Thus the Ethiopian of Thebes named stars of
immdalion,'0r Aquarius, those stars under which the
Nile began to overﬂow ;* stars of the ox, or the
bull, those under which they began to plow ; stars of’
the lion, those under which that animal, driven from
the desert by thirst, appeared on the banks of the
Nile ; stars of the sheaf, or of the harvest virgin,
those of the reaping season ; stars of the lamb, stars
of the two kids, those under which these precious ani
mals were brought forth : And thus was resolved the
ﬁrst part of the diﬂiculty.
Farther, man having remarked in the beings which
surrounded him certain qualities distinctive and pro
per to each species ; and having thence derived a
name by which to designate them, he found in the
same source an ingenious mode of generalizing his
ideas; and, transferring the name already invented
~ to every thing which bore any resemblance or ana
logy, he enriched his language with a perpetual
round of metaphors. 1
Thus, the same Ethiopian having observed that
the return of the inundation always corresponded
with the rising of a beautiful star which appeared
towards the source of the Nile, and seemed to warn
the husbandman against the coming waters, he com
pared this action to that of the animal who, by his
barking, gives notice of danger, and he called this
star the dog, the barker (Syrius), in the same manner
he named the stars of the Crab, those where the sun,
having arrived at the tropic, retreated by a slow and
’ This must have been June.
188 _. CHAPTER XXII.
backward pace, like the crab, "or cancer ,' he named
stars of the wild goat, or Capricorn, those where the
sun, having reached the highest point in his annuary
tract, rests at the summit of the horary gnomon, and
imitates the goat, who delights to climb the summit
of the rocks ; he named stars of the balance, or
Zibra, those where the days and nights, being equal,
seemed in equilibrium, like that instrument; and
stars of the scorjlion, those where certain periodical
winds bring vapours, burning like the venom of the
\‘ scorpion. In the same manner he called by the
name of rings and serfimts, the ﬁgured tracesof the
orbits of the stars and the planets ; and such was the
general mode of naming all the stars and even the
planets*, taken by groups or individuals, according
to their relations with husbandry and terrestrial ob
~iects, and according to the analogies which each na
tion found between them and the objects of its parti
cular soil and climate.
From this it appeared that abject and terrestrial
beings became associated with the superior and pow
Yui inhabitants ofheaven ; and this association became
stronger every day by the mechanism of language
and the constitution of the human mind. Men would
say, by a natural inetaphor ; the bull spreads over the
earth the germs offecundity (in spring) ; he restores
vegetation and plenty : the lamb (or ram) delivers the
skies from the maliﬁcent powers of winter; he saves
the world from the serpent (emblem of the humid
" The ancients had verbs from the substantives crab, goql,
tortoise, as the French have at present the verbs rerpenrer,
coquettcr. The history of alllanguagcs is nearly the same,
CHAPTER XXII. 189
season) and.restores the empire of goodness (sum
mer, joyful season): the ac0rj1io1l pours out his poison
on the earth, and scatters diseases and death. The
same of all similar eﬂ'ects.
Thislanguagmnnderstood by every one,was attend
ed at ﬁrst with no inconvenience ; but in the course
of time, when the calendar had been regulated, the
people, who had no longer any need of observing the
heavens, lost sight of the original meaning of these
expressions ; and the allegories, remaining in com
mon use, became a fatal stumbling block to the 'un
derstanding and to reason. Habituated to associate
to the symbols the ideas of their architypes, the mind
at last confounded them: then the same animals,
whom fancy had transported to the skies, returned
again to the earth ; but being thus returned, clothed
in the livery ofthe stars, they claimed the stellary at
tributes, and imposed on their own authors. Then it
was that the people, believing that they saw their
Gods among them, could pray to them with more con
venience : they demanded from the ram.of their ﬂock
the inﬂuences which might be expected from the
heavenly ram ; they prayed the scorpion not to pour
out his venom upon nature ; they revered the crab of
the sea, the scarabeus of the mud, the ﬁsh of the
river ; and, by a series of currupt but inseparable
analogies, they lost themselves in a labyrinth of well
connected absurdities.
Such was the origin of that ancient whimsical wor
ship of the animals ; such is the train of ideas by
which the character of the divinity became common
I
It 2
190 ensrrlan mm.
to. the vilest ofbrutes, and by which was formed that
theological system extremely comprehensive, com
plicated and learned, which, rising on the borders of
the Nile, pi'opag.ated from country to country by coro.l
merce, war, ard conquest, overs.pread the whole of
the ancient world ; and which, modiﬁed by time, cir
cumstances and prejudices, is still seen entire among
a hundred nations, and remains as the essential and
secret basis of the theology of those even who despise
and reject it.
Some murmurs at these words being heard from
various groups: Yes ! continued the orator, hence
arose, for instance, among you, nations of Africa, the
adoration of your fetishes, plants, animals, pebbles,
pieces of wood, before which your ancestors would
not have had the folly to how, if they had not seen in
them talismans endowed with the virtue of the stars.*
' The ancient astrologers, says the most learned ofthe
Jews (Maimonides) having sacredly assigned to each planet
a colour, an animal, a tree, a metal, a fruit, a plant, formed
from them all a ﬁgure or representation of the star, taking
care to select for the purpose a proper moment, a fortunate
day, such as the e0n_]unction of the star, or some other fa
vour.able aspect. They conceived that by their magic cere
monies they could introduce into those ﬁgures or idols the
inﬂuences of the superior beings after which they were mo
delled. These were the idols that the Chaldean'Sabeans
adorned; and in the performance of their worship they were
obliged to be dressed in the proper colour. The astrolo
gers, by their practices, thus introduced idolatry, desirous of
being regarded as the dispensers of the favours ofhcaven ;
and as agriculture was the sole employment of the ancients,
they succeededin persuading them that the rain and other
1€HAPTER v XXR 19:
Here, ye nations of Tartary, is the origin of your
marmouzets, and of all that train of animals with
Which your chamans ornament their robes. This is
the origin of those ﬁgures of birds and of snakes
which savage nations imprint upon their skins with
sacred and mysterious ceremonies. Ye inhabitants
of lndia! in vain you cover yourselves with the veil
of mystery : the hawk of your God Vichenou is but
one of the thousand emblems of the sun in Egypt ;
and your incarnations of a God in the ﬁsh, the bear,
the lion, the tortoise, and all his monstrous adven
tures, are only the rnetamorphoses of the sun, who,
passing through the signs of the twelve animals?‘ or
the zodiac, was supposed to assume their ﬁgures,1'
and perform their astronomical functions. People of
Japan, your Bull, which breaks the mundane Egg, is
blessings of’the seasons were at their disposal. Thus the
Whole rut of agriculture was exercised byrules of astrology,
and the priests made talismans or charms which were to drive
away locusts, ﬂies, etc. See Jllaimonides, More Nebuchim,
far: 3. c. 29.
_ The priests ofEgypt, Persia, India, etc. pretended to bind
the Gods to their idols, and to make them come from heaven
at their pleasure. They threatened the sun and moon, if they
were disobedient, to reveal the secret mysteries, to shake
the skies, etc. etc. Euseb. Praceja. Esmllg. p. 198, and
Jnmblicut dc Xllysteriis A£g_yf1t.
' The Zodiac.
1’ These are the very words of Jnmblicus de Symlmlis
.r'Eg_\'pti0rum, c. 2, sect. 7. The sun was the grand Proteus,
the universal metamorphiit.
192 CHAPTER xxu.
only the Bull of the zodiac, which in former times
opened the seasons, the age of creation, the vernal
equinox. It is the same Bull Apis which Egypt
adored ; and which your ancestors, Jewish Rabbins,
worshipped in the golden calf. This is still you:
Bull, followers of Zoroaster, which, sacriﬁced in the
symbolic mysteries of Mithra, poured out his blood
which fertilized the world. And, ye Christians, your
Bull of the Apocalypse, with his wings, symbol of the
air, has no other origin ; and your Lamb of God, sa
criﬁced, like the hull of Mithra, for the salvation of
the world, is only the same sun, in the sign of the
celestial ram, which, in a later age, opening the equi
nox in his turn, was supposed to deliver the world
from evil, that is to say, from the constellation of the
serpent, of that great snake, the mother of winter,
the emblem of the Ahrimanes, or Satan of the Per
sians, your school masters. Yes, in vain does your
imprudent zeal consign idolaters to the torments oi.
the Tartarus which they invented ; the whole basis.
of your system is only the worship of the sun, with
Whose attributes you have decorated your principal
personage. .It is the sun which, under the name of
Horus, was born, like your God, at the winter sols
tice, in the arms of the celestial Virgin, and who pass
ed a childhood of obscurity, indigence, and want, an
swering to the season of cold and frost : it is he that,
under the name of Osiris, persecuted by Typhon and
by the tyrants of the air, was put to death, shut up in
a dark tomb, emblem of the hemisphere of winter;
and afterwards, ascending from the inferior zone to
wards the zenith of heaven, arose again from the
dead, triumphant over the giants and the angels of
destruction.
BHAPTER XXII. I93
Ye priests, who murmur at this relation, you wear
his emblems all over your bodies; your tonsurc is
the disk of the sun ; your stole is his zodiac* ; your
rosaries are symbols of the stars and planets. Ye
pontiffs and prelates, your mitre, your crosier, your
mantle, are those of Osiris; and that cross, whose'
mystery you boast, without comprehending it, is the
cross of Serapis, traced by the hands of Egyptian
priests, on the plan of the ﬁgurative world ; which,
passing through the cquinoxes and the tropics, be
came the emblem of the futUre.life and the resurrec
tion, because it touched the gates ofivory and of horn,
through which the soul passed to heaven.
At these we rds, the doctors of all the groups be
gan to look at each other with astonishment; but no
one breaking silence, the orator proceeded :
Three principal causes concnr to produce this
confusion of ideas : ﬁrst, the ﬁgurative ex/ireuions
* The Arabs, says Herodotus, shave their heads in a cir.
ole and about the temples, in imitation of Bacchus (that is the
sun), who shaves himself in this manner. Jeremiah speaks
also ofthis custom. The tuft of hair which the Mahometans
preserve, is taken also from the sun; who was painted by the
Egyptians at the winter solstice, as having but a single hair on
his head...... Tour stole is his Zodiac. The robes ofthe god
dess ot’ Syria and of Diana ofEphesus, from whence are bor
rowed the dress of the priests, have the twelve animals of
the zodiac painted on them..... Rosaries are found upon all
the Indian idols, constructed more than four thousand years
ago andtheir use in the East has been universal from time
immemorial.... The crosier is precisely the staff of Bootes or
Osiris (See plate II.). All the Lamas wear the mltre or cap
in the shape of a cone, which was an emblem ofthe sum
194 CHAPTER XXII.
under which an infant language was obliged to 'de
\ _L \scribe the relations of 0bJ€Cts; expressions which,
passing afterwards from a limited to a general sense,
I and from a physical to a moral one, caused, by their
4'
/ tfquivokes and synonimes, a great number of mis- .
takes.
Thus, it being ﬁrst said that the sun had surmount
ed, orﬁnished, twelve animals, it was thought after
wards that he had killed them,fought them, conquer
ed them ; and of this was composed the historical
life of Hercules.’II
It being said that he regulated the periods of rural
labour, the seed time, and the harvest, distributed
the seasons, ran through the climates, and ruled the
earth; he was taken for a legislative king, a con-_
quering warrior; and they framed from this the his
tory of Osiris, of Bacchus, and others of that des
cription.
Having said that a planet entered into a sign, they
made of this conjunction a marriage, an adultery, an
incest.T Having said that the planet was kid or
; buried, when it came back to light, and ascehded to'
* See the Memoir of Dupuis on the origin qf the constella
::'on:, before cited.
1 These are the very words oi'Plutarch in his account of
". Isis and Osiris. The Hebrews say, in speaking of the gen
"'erations of the Patriarclw, et ingressu: est in mm. From
this continual equivoke of ancient language proceeds every
mistake.
CHAPTER XXI I. 195
its exaltation, they said it had died, risen again, was
carried into heaven, etc.
"‘ I
A second cause of confusion was the material
ﬁgures themselves, by which men ﬁrst painted
thoughts ; and which, under the name of hierogly
jlbics, or sacred characters, were the ﬁrst invention
of the mind. Thus, to give warning of the inunda
tion, and of the necessity of preserving one's self
from it, they _painted a boat, the vessel Argo ; to ex
press the wind,theypainted the wing of a bird; todee
signate the season, or the month, they painted the bird
of passage, the insect, or the animal which made its
appearance at that epoch; to describe thewinter, they
painted. a hog or a serpent, which delights in humid
places, and the combination of these ﬁgures carried
the known sense of words and phrases.’* But as this
' See the examples cited in note p. 220.
The reader will doubtless see with pleasure some ex
amples of ancient hieroglyphics.
“TheE tians savs.Hor'appolo).represent eternit 5
EH’ . Y Y
the ﬁgures of the sun and moon. They designate the world "
by the blue serpent with yellow scales (stars, it is the Chi
nese Dragon). If they were desirous ofexpressing the yearf
they drew a picture of Isis, who is also in their language
called Sothis, or dogstar, one of the ﬁrst constellations, by
the rising ofwhich the year commences ; its inscription at
Sais was, Itir I that rise in the constellation: qfthe Dog.
“ They also represent the year by a palm tree, and the
month by one of its branches, because it is the nature of this
tree to produce a branch every month. They further repre
196 CHAPTER XXII.
sense could not be ﬁxed with precision, as the num
ber of these ﬁgures and their combinations be
came excessive, and over-burdened the memory, the
sent it by the fourth part of an acre of land.” The whole
acre, divided into four, denotes the bissextile period of four
years. The abbreviation of this ﬁgure of a ﬁeld in four
divisions, is manifestly the letter I16 or hét, the seventh in
the Samaritan alphabet; and in general all the' letters of the
alphabet are merely astronomical hieroglyphics; and it is for
this reason that the mode of writing is from right to left,
like the march ofthe sta.rs.—“ They denote aprophet by the
image ofa dog, because the dog star (Anoubir) by its rising
gives notice of the inundation. Noubi in Hebrew signiﬁes
prophet.-— They represent inundation by a lion, because
it takes place under that sign : and hence, says Plutarch,
the custom of placing at the gates oftemples ﬁgures of lions
with water issuing from their mouths.—They express the
idea ofGod and destiny by a star. They also represent God,
says Porphyry, by a black stone, because his nature is dark
and obscure. All white things express the celestial and lu
minous Gods : all circular ones the world, the moon, the sun
the orbits; all semicircular ones, as bows and crescents, are
descriptive ofthe moon. Fire and the Gods of Olympus they
represent by pyramids and obelisks (the name of the sun,
Baal, is found in this latter word) : the sun, bya cone (the
mitre ot'Osiris) : the earth, by a cylinder (which resolves) :
the generative power of the air by the ﬂialus, and that of the
earth by a triangle, emblem of the female organ. Euseb.
Przcejw. Ecang. p. 98.
“ Clay, says Jamblicus de Symbolis, sect. 7. c. 2. denotes
matter, the generative and nutrimental power, everything
which receives the warmth and fermentation of life."
“ A man setting upon the Lotus or Neuuphar, represents
the moving spirit (the sun) which, in like manner as that
CHAPTER XXII. 1_97
immediate conseqttence was confusion and false in
terpretations. Genius afterwards having invented
the more simple art of applying signs to sounds, of
plant lives in the water without any communication with clay,
exists equally distinct from matter, swimming in empty space,
resting on itself : it is round also in all its parts, like the
leaves, the ﬂowers, and the fruit of the Lotos. (Bramnhas
the eyes ofthe Lotos, says Chasler Nesdi1'sen, to denote his
intelligence : his eye swims over every thing,like the ﬂower
of the Lotos on the waters.) A man at the helm ofa ship,
adds Jamhlicus, is descriptive of the sun which governs all.
And Porphyry tells us, that the sun is also. represented by a
man in a ship resting upon an amphibious crocodile (emblem
Of air and water).
“ At Elephantine they worshipped the ﬁgure of :1 man in
a sitting posture, painted blue, having the head of a ram, and
the horns ofa goat, which encompassed adislt ; all which re
presented the sun and moon’s conjunction at the sign of the
ram ; the blue colour denoting the power of the moon, at the
period ofjnnction, to raise water into clouds. Euseb. P_ weep).
E'vang.p. 116.
“ The hawk is an emblem of the sun and of light, on ac
count of his rapid ﬂight and his soaring into the highest re
gions of the air where light abounds.
A ﬁsh is the emblem of aversion, and the Hippopotamus of
violence, because it is said to kill its father and ravish its mo
thel'' Hence, says Plutarch, the embleriiatical inscription of
the temple ofSais, where we see painted on the vestibule, 1.
A child, 2. An old man, 3. Ahawk, 4-. A ﬁsh, 6. A hippopo
tamus ; which signify, 1. Entrance into life, 2. Departure, 3.
God, 4-. Hates, 5. lnjuctice. See Isis and Osiris.
“ The Egyptians, adds he, represent the world by :1 Sears
hens, because this insect pushes, in a direction contrary to
s
P
19s CHAPTER XXII.
which the number is limited, and painting words, in
stead of thoughts, alphabetical writing threw into
disuctudc hieroglyphical painting ; and its signiﬁca
tion, falling daily into forgetfulness, gave rise to a
multitude of illusions, equivoltes, and errors.
*- Finally, a third cause ofconfusion was the civil or
ganization of ancient states. VVhen the people be
gan to apply themselves to agriculture, the formation
of a rural calendar requiring a continued series of
that in which it proceeds, a ball containing its eggs, just as
the heaven ofthe ﬁxed stars causes the revolution of the sun,
(the yolk ofan egg) in an opposite direction to its own.
“ They represent the world also by the number ﬁve, being
that of the elements, which, says Diodorus, are earth, water,
air, ﬁre, and ether, or sfliritus. The Indians have the same
number ofelunents, and, according to Macrobius’s mystics,
they are the supreme God, or primum mabile, the intelli
gence, or mens, born of him, the soul of the world which
proceeds from him, the celestial spheres, and all things ter
restrial. Hence, adds Piutarch, the analogy between thg
Greekﬂente, ﬁve, andpan, all.
" The ass ” says he again, “ is the emblem of Typhon, be
cause, like that animal, he is of Cl. reddish colour. Now Ty
phon signiﬁes whatever is ofa miry or clayey nature ; (and.
in Hebrew I ﬁnd the three words day, red, and ass to be form.
ed from the same root hamr. Jamblicus has farther told
us, that clay was the emblem of matter ; and he elsewhere
adds, that all evil and corruption proceeded from matter ;
which compared with the phrase ofMacr0bius, all is /7€!'I'6'/L
able, lia-ble.to change in the celestial sphere, gives us the
theory, ﬁrst physical, then moral, of the system of good and
evil ofthe ancients.”
CHAPTER XXII. 199
.astronomical observations, it became necessary to
appoint certain individuals, charged with the func
tions of watching the appearance and disappearance
ofcertain stars, to foretel the return of the inundation,
ofcertain winds, of the rainy season, the proper time
to sow every kind of grain. These men, on account
0f,their service, were exempt from common labour,
and the society provided for their maintenance.
\Vith this provision, and wholly employed in their
observations, they soon became acquainted with the
great phenomena ofnature, and even learned to pene
trate the sccret of many of her operations. They
discovered the movement of the stars and the planets,
the coincidence of their phases and returns, with the
productions ofthc earth and the action of vegetation ;
the medicinal and nutritive properties of plants and
fruits ; the action of the elements, and their recipro
cal aﬂinities. Now, as there was no other method of
communicating the knowledge of these discoveries
but the laborious one of oral instruction, they trans
mitted it only to their relations and friends ; it follow
ed that all science and all instruction were coniined
to afew families ; who arrogating it to themselves as
an exclusive privilege, assumed a professional dis
tinction, a corporation spirit, fatal to thc public wel
fare. This continued succession of the same re
searches and the same labours, hastened, it is true,
the progress of knowledge ; but by the mystery which
accompanied it, the people were daily plunged in deep
er shades, and became more superstitious and more
enslaved. Seeing their fellow mortals produce cer
tain phenomena, announce, as at pleasure, eclipses
and comets, heal diseases, and handle venomous ser
200 CHAPTER XXII.
pents, they .thought them in alliance with celestial
powers; and, to obtain the blessings and avert the
evils which they expected from above, they took
them for mediators and interpreters; and thus be
came established in the bosom of every state sacrile
geous corporations of hypocritical and deceitful men,
who centred all powers in themselves ; and the
priests, being at once astronomers, theologians, natu
ralists, physicians,magicians, interpreters ofthe Gods,
oracles of men and rivals of kings or their accompli.F
ces, established, under the name of religion, an em-
pire of mystery and a monopoly of education, which
to this day have ruined every nation...
Here the priests of all the groups interrupted the
. orator, and with loud cries accused him of impiety,
irreligion, blasphemy ; and endeavoured to cut
short his discourse. But the Lawgiver observing
that this was only an exposition of historical facts,
which, if false or forged, would be easily refuted ;
' that hitherto the declaration of every opinion had
been free, and without this it would be impossible to
discover the truth, the orator proceeded:
' Now, from all these causes, and from the continual
association of ill-assorted ideas, arose a mass of dis
orders in theology, in morals, and in traditions : ﬁrst
because the animals represented the stars, the cha'
racters of the animals, their appetites, their sympa
thies, their aversions, passed over to the gods, and
were supposed to be their actions; thus, the god
Ichneumon made war against the god Crocodile; the
god VVolfliked to eat the god Sheep 5 and the god Ibis
CHAPTER XXII. 201
devoured the god Serpent ; and the deity became a
strange, capricious, ferocious being, whose idea dc
ranged the judgment of man, and corrupted his
morals and his reason.
Again, because in the spirit of their worship every
family, every nation, took for its special patron a star
or a constellation, the affections or antipathies of the
symbolic animal passed into its sectaries ; and the
partisans of the god dog were enemies to those of
the god wolf ; those who adored the god ox had an
abhorrence to those who ate him ; and religion be
came the source of hatred and hostility, the senseless
cause of frenzy and superstition?‘
Besides, the names of those animal stars having,
for this same reason of patronage, been conferred
.on nations, countries, mountains, and rivers, these
objects were taken for gods-, and hence followed a
mixture of geographical, historical, and mythological
beings, which confounded all traditions.
‘ Finally, by the analogy of the actions which were
ascribed to them, the God-Stars, having been taken
for men, for heroes, for kings, kings and heroes took
' These are properly the works of Plutarch, who relates,
that those various worships were given by a king ofﬁgypt
to the dilierent towns, to disunite and enslave them, and
these kings had been taken from the cast of priests. Sce
kit' and Osiris.
s 2
:02 CHAPTER xxu. ' _ .
’\
“'\ in their turn the actions of gods for models, and by.
imitation became warr'1ors, conquerors, proud, las
civious, indolent, sanguinary; and religion conse—
~ crated the crimes of despots: and perverted the
principles of government.
\
§. 4.
Fourth system. Worshiji of two Iiriucijllee, or
dualism.
In the mean time, the astronomical priests, enjoy
ing peace and abundance in their temples, made
every day new progress in the sciences, and the
system ofthe world unfolding gradually to their view,
they raised successively various hypotheses as to its
agents and effects, which became so many theologi
cal systems.
~ The voyages of the maritime nations and the ca
ravans of the Nomads of Asia and Africa, having
given them a knowledge of the earth from the Fortu
nate Islands to Serica, and from the Baltic to the
sources of the Nile, the comparison ofthe phenomena
of various zones taught them the rotundity of the
earth, and gave birth to a new theory. Having re
marked that all the operations of nature during the
annual period, were reducible to two principal ones,
that ofjiroducing and that of destroying ,- that on the
greater part of the globe these two operations were
performed in the intervals ofthe two equinoxes ; that
is to say,during the six months of summer every thing
was procreating and multiplying, and that during wim
ter every thing languished and almost died; they
supposed in nature two contrary powers, which were "
204 CHAPTER XXII.
O
in a continual state of contention and exertion ; and
considering the celestial spheie in this view, they
divided the images which they ﬁgured upon it into
two halves or hemispheres; so that the constellations
which were on the summer heaven formed a direct
and superior empire ; and those which were. on the
Winter heaven composed an 'antipode and inferior
empire. Therefore, as the constellations of summer
accompanied the season of long, warm, and unclm5d
ed days, and that of fruits and harvests, they were
considered as the powers of light, fecundity and crea
tion ; and, by a transition from a physical to a moral
sense, they became genii, angels of science, of bene
ﬁcence, of purity and virtue. And, as the constella
tions of winter were connected with long nights and
polar fogs, they were the genii of darkness, of des
truction, of death; and, by transition, angels of ig
norance, of wickedness, of sin and vice. By this
arrangement the heaven was divided into two do
mains, two factions ; and the analogy of human ideas
already opened a vast ﬁeld to the errors of imagina
tion; but the mistake and the illusion were deter
mined, ifnot occasioned, by a particular circumstance
(Observe plate Ill).
’i
In the projection of the celestial sphere, as traced
by the astronomical priests,‘ the zodiac and the con
,
' The ancient priests had three kinds of spheres, which it
may be useful to make known to the reader. ' ' "'
“ We read in liusebius,” says Porphyry, “that Zoroaster
was the ﬁrst who, having fixed upon a cavern pleasant
ly situated in the mountains adjacent to Persia, formed the
idea of consecrating it to Mithra, (the sun) creator and fa
\
CHAPTEItXX1I.3 20;
stéllations, disposed in ‘ircularorder, presented their
halves ‘in diametrical'opposition ; the hemisphere
of winter, antipode of thatofthe snmmer,was adverse,
' . I‘
ther of all things; that is to say, having made in this cavern
several geometrical divisions, representing the seasons and
the elements, he imitated on a small scale the order and
disposition of the universe by Mithra. After Zorosster, it
became a custom to consecrate caverns for the celebration I\
of mysteries: so that in like manner as temples were dedi
cated to the Gods, rural altars to heroes and terrestrial dei
ties, etc. subterraneous abodes to infernal deities, so caverns
and grottoes were consecraredto the world, to the universe,
andto the nymphs; and from hence Pythagoras and Plato
borrowed the idea of calling the earth a cavern, a cave, de
Antra Mymp/xarum.
Such was theﬁrst projcctirm ofthe sphere inrelief; though
the Persians give the honour of the invention to Zoroaster, it
is doubtless due to the Egyptians ; for we may supposetrom
this projection being the most simple, that it was the most
ancient ; the caverns of Thebes, full ofsimilar pictures, tend.
to strengthen this opinion.
The following was the second projection : “ The prophets
or hierophants,” says Bishop Synnesius, “ who had been
initiated in the mysteries, do not permit th'e common work
men to form idols or images of the Gods ; but they descend
themselves into the sacred caves, where they have concealed?\ '
coﬂ'ers containing certain spheres,upon which they construct
those images secretly and without the knowledge of the peo
ple, who despise simple and natural things, and wish for pro
digies and fables.” (Syn. in Calvit) That is, the ancient
priests had armillary spheres like ours; and this passage,
which so well agrees withthat of Chxremon, gives us the key
to all their theological astrology.
mi
/\P
1
IL
206 CHAP'I:ER xxn.
contrary, 0ji/msed to it: by‘a continual metaphor,
these words acquired a moral sense; and the adverse
genii, or angels, became revolted enenlies * From
that moment all the astronomical history of the con
stellations was changed into a political history ; the
heavens became a human state, where things hap
pened as on the earth. Now, as the earthly states,
the greater part despotic, had already their monarchs,
and as the sun was apparently the monarch of the
skies, the summer hemisphere (empire of light) and
nstly. they had ﬁat models of the nature of Plate 11, with
this diilcrcnce, that they were ofa very complicated nature,
having every ﬁctitious division of decan and suhdecan, with
the hieroglyphic signs of their inﬂuence. Kircher has given
us a copy of one of them in his Egyptian (E dipus, and Gybe
lin a’ ﬁgured fragment in his book of the calendar (under the
name ofthe Egyptian Zodiac). The ancient Egyptians, says
the astrologer Julius Firmicus, (Astron. lib. ii. and lib. iv. e.
16.), divide each sign of the Zodiac into three sections ; and
each section Was under the direction of an imaginary being,
whom they called decan or chief often ; so that there were
three decans a month, and thirty'six a year. Now these de
cans, who were also called Gods (T/leoi), regulated the des
tinies of m:mkind—and they were placed particularly in cer
tain stars. They afterwards imagined in every ten three
other Gods, whom they called arbiters; so that there were
nine for every month, and these were farther divided into an
inﬁnite number of powers. The Persians and Indians made
their spheres on similar plans ; and if a picture thereof were
to be drawn from the description given by Scaliger at the end
of Manilius, we should ﬁnd in it a complete explanation of
their hieroglyphics, for every article forms one.
* It was for this reason the Persians always wrote the
name of Ahrimanes inverted thus : 's9uvw_1.L1[V
CHAPTER XXI1'1 20.’?
its constellations (a nation of white angels) had. for
king an enlightened god, a creator intelligent and
good. And as every rebel faction must have its chief,
the heaven of winter, the subterranean empire of
darkness and woe, and its stars, a nation of black an
gels, giants and demons, had for their chief a maliﬁ
cent Genius ; whose character was applied by differ
ent people to the constellation which to them was
the most remarkable. In Egypt it was at ﬁrst the
Scorpion, ﬁrst zodiacal sign after Libra, and for a long
time chief of the winter signs ; then it was the Bear,
or the polar Ass, called Typhon, that is to say, de
luge*, on account of the rains which deluge the
*Typhon, pronounced Touphon by the Greeks, is pre
cisely the touPhan of the Arabs, which signiﬁes deluge; and
these deluges in mythology are nothing more than win
. ter and the rains, or the overﬂowing of the Nile; as their
pretended ﬁres which are to destroy the world, are simply
bhe summer season. And it is for this reason that Aristotle
(De Meteor, lib. I. c. xiv.), says, that the winter of the great
cyclic year is a deluge ; and its summer a conﬂagration.
" The Egyptians,” says Porphyry, “employ every year a“'
talisman in remembrance of the world: at the summer s0l.
stice they mark their houses, ﬂocks and trees with red, sup
posing that on that day the whole world had been set on
ﬁre. It was also at the same period that they celebrated.
the pyrric or ﬁre dance.” And this illustrates the origin of
puriﬁcation by ﬁre and by water; for having denominated
the tropic of Cancer the gate of heaven, and the genial heat
of celestial ﬁre, and that of Capricorn the gate of deluge or
of water, it was imagined that the spirits or souls who passed
through these gates in their way to and from heaven, were
roasted or bat/red ,' hence the baptism of Mithra, and the
passage through ﬂames, observed throughout the East long
before Moses.
’.208 CHAPTER XXH.
I
.earth duringthe dominion of that star. At a later
period‘ in Persia, it was the Serpent ; who, under
the name of Ahrimanes, formed the basis of the sys
tem of Zoroaster ; and it is the same, 0 ehristians
and Jews, that has become your serpent of Eve (the
celestial virgin,) and that of the cross ; in both cases
it is the emblem of Satan, the enemy and great ad
versary of the ./lncient ofDays, sung by Daniel.
I
In Syria it was the hog, or wild boar, enemy of
Adonis; because in that country the functions of the
Northern Bear were performed by the animal whose
inclination for mire and dirt was emblematic of winter.
And this is the reason, followers of Moses and Ma
homet, that you hold him in horror, in imitation of the
priests of Memphis and Belbec, who destested him
as the murderer of their god the sun. This likewise,
() Indians is the type of your Chib-en ; and it has
been likewise the Pluto of your brethren the Romans
and Greeks ; in like manner, your Brama, god the
creator, is only the Persian Ormuzd, and the Egyp
tian Osiris, whose very name expresses creative
jiower, jiroducer offorms. And these gods received
a worship analogous to their attributes, real orimagi
nary ; which worship was divided into two branches
according to their characters. The good god rc
ceives a worship of love and joy, from which are de
rived all religious acts of gaietyyl such as festivals,
’ That is when the ram became the equinoxial sign, or ra. . 1
ther when the alteration of the skies shewed that it was no
longer the bull.
1- All the ancient festivals respecting the return and exalt»
tion of the suit were of this description: hence the Maria
CHAPTER XXII. 209
dances, banquets, offerings of ﬂowers, milk, honey,
perfumes; in a word, eveiy thing grateful to the
sensesand to the soul. The evil god, on the contrary,
received a worship of fear and pain; whence originat
ed all religious acts ofthe gloomy sort*, tears, deso
lations, mournings, self-denials, bloody offerings, and
cruel sacriﬁces.
Hence arose that distinction of terrestrial beings
into pure and impure, sacred and abominable, accord.
of the Roman calendar at the period of the passage, Pascha,
of the vernal equinox. The dances were imitstions of the
march of the planets. Those of the Dervises still represent
it to this day.
' “ Sacriﬁces of blood,” says Porphyry, “ were only oﬁ"er
ed to Demons and evil Genii to avert their wrath. Demons
are fond of blood, humidity,' stench.” Ajmd. Euseb. Pm'p,
£0.15. 173.
" The Egyptians,” says Plutarch, “only oﬂ'er bloody vic
tims to Typhon. They sacriﬁce to him a red ox, and the
animal immolated is held in exeeration and loaded with all
’,
the sins of thepeople. Thegoat of Moses. See I.ms am!
Osiris.
Strabo says, speaking .of Moses, and the Jews, “ Circum
cision and the prohibition of certain kinds of meat sprung
from superstition.” And! observe, respecting the ceremony
of circumcision, that its object was to take.from the symbol of
Osiris, §Pbal!u¢\ the pretended obstacle to fecundity ; an
bbstacle which bore the seal of Typhon, “ whose nature,”
says Plates.ch, “is made up of all that hinders, hppom,
Cause: obstruction?’
c
T
210 CHAPTER XXII.
ing as their species were of the number of the con
stellations of one of these two gods, and made part of
his .domain ; and this produced, on the one hand, the
superstitions concerning pollutions and puriﬁcations.;
and, on the other, the pretended eﬁicacious virtues of
amulets and talismans.
You conceive now, continued the orator, address
ing himself to the Persians, the Indians, the Jews,
the Ghristians, the Mussulmen, you conceive the
origin of those ideas of battles and rebellions which
equally abound in all your mythologies. You see
What is meant by white and black angels, your che
rnbim and seraphim withheadsof eagles, of lions, and
of bulls; your deus, devils, demons, with horns of
goats and tails of serpents ; your thrones and domin
ions, ranged in seven orders or gradations, like the
seven spheres of the. planets ; all beings acting the
same parts, and endowed with the same attributes
in {your Vedas, Bibles, and Zenda-vcstaa ; whether
they have for chiefs Ormuzd or Brama, Typhon or
Chiven, Michael or Satan ; whether they appear un
der the form of giants with a hundred aims and feet
of serpents, or that of gods metamorphosedinto lions,
storks,bulls or cats, as they are in the sacred fables
ofthe Greeks and Egyptians : you perceive the suc
cessive ﬁliation of these ideas, and how, in proportion
to their remoteness from their source, and as the
minds of men became reﬁned, their gross forms have
been'polished, and rendered less disgusting.
* But; in the same manner as you have seen the sys
tem of two opposite principles or gods arise from that
CHAPTER XXII. 21 l
of symbols, wove into its texture, your attention shall
now be called to a new system which has grown out
of this, and to which this has served in its turn as the
basis and support.
5. 5.
Moral and mystical womhiji ,' or system qf a future
stale.
Indeed, when the vulgar heard speak of a new
heaven and another world, they soon gave a body to
these ﬁctions ; they erected therein a real theatre of
action ; and their notions of astronomy and geogra
phy served to strengthen, if not to originate, this
illusion.
On the one hand, the Phoenician navigators who
passed the pillars of Hercules, to fetch the tin of
Thule and the amber ofthe Baltic, related that at the
extremity of the world, and the end of the ocean (the
Mediterranean), where the sun sets for the countries
of Asia,were the Fortunate Islands, the abode of eter
nal spring; and beyond were the hyperborean re
gions,placed under the earth (relatively tothe tropics)
Where reigned an eternal night)‘ From these stories,
badly understood, and doubtless confusedly related,
the imagination of the people composed the Elysiahf
ﬁelds, regions of delights placed in a world below,
* Nights of six months duration.
1. Aliz, in the Phoenician or Hebrew language signiﬁes
dancing and joyous.
—_—'-_A——'__—‘
' CHAPTER XXII. 213
having their heaven, their sun and their stars ; and
Tart.trus, a place of darkness, humidity, mire and
frost. Now, as aman, inquisitive of that which he
knows not, and desirous of protracting his existence,
had already interrogated himself concerning what was
to become of him after his death ; as he had early
Teasoned on the principle of life which animates his
body, and which leaves it without deforming it, and
as he had imagined airy substances, phantoms, and
shades ; he loved to believe that he should continue
in the subterranean world, that life which it was too
painful for him to lose ; and these lower regions
seemed commodious for the reception of the beloved
objects whic . he could not be wilting to resign.
On the other hand, the astrological and geological
priests told such stories and made such descriptions
of their heavens, as accorded perfectly well with
these ﬁctions. Having, in their metaphorical lan
guage, called the equinoxes and solstices the gates
\ of heaven, the entrance of the seasons, they explained
these terrestrial phenomena. by saying, that through
the gate of horn (ﬁrst the bull, afterwards the ram)
and through the gate of cancer,descendetl the vivifying
ﬁres which give life to vegetation in the spring, and\ 2
the aqueous spirits which bring, at the solstice, the '
inundation of the Nile ; that through the gate of
ivory (libra, formerly sagitlanua, or the bow) and by
that of C!£]_l£i§01'!l, or the urn, the emanations or in- '
ﬂuences of the heavens returned to their source, and
re-ascended to their origin ; and the Milky Way,
which passed through the gates of the solstice, seem.
ed to be placed there to serve them as a roador
T 2
214 CHAPTER XXII.
_ vehicle.‘ Besides, in their Atlas the celestial scene
presented a river (the Nile, designated by the wind
ings of the hydra),a boat (the vessel Argo) and the
. dog Syrius, both relative to this river, whose inunda
tion they foretold. These circumstances, added to the
preceding, and still farther explaining them, increas
ed their probability; and, to arrive at Tartarus or
Elysium, souls were obliged to cross the rivers Styx
and Acheron in the boat of the ferry-man Charon, and
to pass through the gates of horn or ivory, guarded
by the dog Cerberus. Finally, these inventions were
applied to a civil use, and thence received a farther
consistency.
Having remarked that in their burning climate the
putrefaction of dead bodies was a cause of pestilential
diseases, the Egyptians in many of their towns had
adopted the practice of burying their dead beyond
the limits of the inhabited country, in the desert of
the VVest. To go there, it was necessary to pass the
channels of the river, and of consequence be received
into a boat, and pay something to the ferry-man ;
without which, the body, deprived of sepulture, must
have been the prey of wild beasts. This custom sug
gested to the civil and religious legislators the means
ofa powerful inﬂuence on the manners ; and, address
ing uncultivated and ferocious men with the motives
of ﬁlial piety and a reverence for the dead, they estab
lished, as a necessary condition, their undergoing a
previous trial, which should decide whether the de
ceased meritcd to be admitted to the rank of the fa
’ See Macrob. Sam. Scijr. c. 12. .
CHAPTER XXII. 2l5
mily in the black city. Such an idea accorded too
well with all the others, not to be incorporated with
them ; the people soon adopted it; and hell had its
Minos and its R.adamanthus, with the wand, the bench,
the ushers, the urn, as in the earthly and civil state.
It was then that God became a moral and political be
ing, a lawgiver to men, and so much the more to be
dreaded, as this supreme legislator, this ﬁnal judge,
was inaccessible and invisible : then it was that this
fabulous and mythological world, composed of such
odd materials and disjointed parts, became a place of
punishments and of rewards, where divine justice was
supposed to correct what was vicious and erroneous
in the judgment of men. This spiritual and mystical
system acquired the more credit, as it took posses
sion of man by all his natural inclinations : the op
pressed found in it the hope of indemnity, and the
consolation of future vengeance ; the oppressor, ex
pecting by rich oiferings to purcnase his impunity,
formed out of the errors of the vulgar an additional
Weapon of oppression; the chiefs of nations, the kings
and priests, found in this a new instrument ofdomina
tion by the privilege which they reserved to them
selves of distributing the favours and punishments of
the great judge, according to the merit or demerit of
actions, which they took care to characterize as best
suited their system.
This then is the manner in which an invisible and \
imaginary world has been introduced into the real and
visible one ; this is the origin of those regions of
pleasure and oi pain, of which you, Persians, have
made yourvegencrated cart/i,your city qfresurrectiom
am cnarrnn xxn.~
-c.
_'.v,.’
placed under the equator,. with this singular attri<
bute, that in it the blessed cast no shade.* Of these
.\
\ ' There is .on this subject a passage in Plutarch, so inter
Qsting and explanatory of the whole of this system, that we
lhall cite it entire. Having observed that the theory of
good and evil had at all times occupied the attention of phi
losophers and theologians, he adds : " Many suppose there
to be two gods of opposite inclinations, one delighting in
.good, the other in evil ; the ﬁrst of these is called particu
larly by the name of God, the second by that of Genius or
Demon. Zoroaster has denominated them Oromaze and
Ahrimanes, and has said that of whatever falls under the
cognizance of our senses, light is the best representation of
the one, and darkness and ignorance of the other. He addsll
that Mithra is an intermediate being, and it is for this reason
the Persians call Mithra the mediator or mtermediator. Each
of these Gods has distinct plants and animals consecrated to
him ; for example, dogs, birds and hedge'hogs belong to the
good Genius, and all aquatic animals to the evil one.
" The Persians also say, that Oromaze was born or formed
out of the purest light ; Alnimanes, on the contrary, out of
the thickest darkness : that Oromaze made six gods as good
as himself, and Ahrimanes opposed to them six wicked ones ;
that Oromaze afterwards multiplied himselftln'eefold(Hermes
trismegistusl and removed to a distance as remote from the
sun as the sun is remote from the earth ; that be there form—
Qd stars, and, among others, Syrius, which he placed in the
heavens as a guard and centinel. He made also twenty'four
other Gods, which he enclosed in an egg ; but Ahrimanes
created an equal number on his part, who broke the egg, and
from that moment good and evil were mixed .;'in the uni
verse) But Ahrimanes is one day to be conquered, and the
earth to be made equal and smooth, that all men may live
kappa . ' .
CHAPTER XXII. 2 1'1
materials, Jews and Christians, disciples of the Per
sians, have you formed your New Jerusalem of the .
Apocalypse, your paradise, your heaven, copied in all
its parts from the astrological heavenofHermes: and
your hell, ye Mussulmen, your bottomless pit, sur
mounted by a bridge, your balance for weighing souls
and good works, your last judgment by the angels
Monkir and Nekir, are likewise modelled frorn the
.mysterious ceremonies of the cave of Mithras ;* and
“ Theopompus adds, from the books Ofthe Magi, that one
of these Gods reigns in turn every three thousand years,
during which the other is kept in subjection; that they after
wards contend with equal weapons during a similar portion
of time, but that in the end the evil Genius will fall (never to
rise again). Then men will become happy, and their bodies
cast no shade. The God who meditates all these things re
Olines at present in repose, waiting till he shall be pleased to
execute them." See Isis and Osiris.
There is an apparent allegory through the whole of this
passage. The egg is the ﬁxed sphere, the world : the six
Gods of Oromaze are the six signs of summer, those of Ahri
manes the six signs of winter. The forty'eight other Gods
are the forty-eight constellations ofthe ancient sphere, divid—
ed equally between Ahrimanes and Oromaze. The oﬂice of
Syrius, as guard and centinel, tells us that the origin of these
ideas was Egyptian : ﬁnally, the expression that the earth is
to become equal and smooth, and that the bodies of happy
beings are to cast no shade, proves that the equator was con
sidered as theirtrue paradise.
' In the caves which priests every where constructed, they
celebrated mysteries which consisted (says Origen against l
Cclsus) in imitating the motion of' the stars, the planets and ’
the heavens. The initiated took the name of consteuationg,
218 CHAPTER XXII.
your heaven diﬂ'ers not in the least from that of Osi
ris, of Ormuzd, and ofBramai
and assumed the ﬁgures of animals. One was a lion, ano
ther a raven, and a third a ram. Hence the use of masks in
the ﬁrst representation of the drama. See Ant De voilé,
val. ii. p. 244-. “ In the mysteries of Ceres the chief in the
procession called himself the creator ; the bearer of the
torch was denominated the sun : the person nearest to the
altar, the moon; the herald or deacon, Mercury. In Egypt
there was a festival in which the men and women represent
ed the year, the age, the seasons, the different parts of the
day, and they walked in procession after Bacchus. Athen.
lib. v. ch. 7. In the cave of Mithra was a ladder with seven
steps, representing the seven spheres ofthe planets, by mean!
of which souls ascended and decended. This is precisely
. the ladderin Jacob’s vision, which shows that at that epoch
the whole system was formed. There is in the French king’s
library asuperb volume of pictures of the Indian Gods, in
Which the ladder is represented with the souls ofmen mount-
ing it.”_
5. 6.
Sixth system. The .animated world, or.worshiji Qf
the universe under divers emblems.
'Whilethe nations were wandering in the dark laby
rinth of mythology and fables, the physical priests,
pursuing their studies and enquiries into the order
and disposition of the universe, came to new conclu
sions, and formed new systems concerning powers
and ﬁrst causes.
Long conﬁned to simple appearances, they saw no
thing .inthe movement of the stars but an unknown
play of luminous bodies rolling round the .earth,
whichthey believed the central point ofallthe spheres;
but as .soon as they discovered the rotundit.y of our
planet, the consequences of this ﬁrst fact .led them to
new considerations ; dnd from induction to induction
they rose to the highest conceptions in astronomy
and physics. "'
Indeed, after having conceived this luminous idea,
that the terrestrial globe is a little circle inscribed
in the greater circle of the heavens, the theory ofcon
centric circles came naturally into their hypothesis,
to determine the unknown circle of the terrestrial
globe by certain known portions of the celestial cir
cle ; and the measurement of one or more degrees oi"
\
220 CHAPTER xxu.
the meridian gave with precision the whole circum
ference. Then, taking for a compass the known
diameter of the earth, some fortunate genius applied
it with a bold hand to the boundless orbits of the hea
vens ; and man, the inhabitant of a grain of sand, em
l bracing the inﬁnite distances of the stars, launches
into the immensity of space and the eternity oftime :
f there he is presented with a new order of the uni
' verse, of which the atom-globe which he inhabited
appeared no longer to be the centre; this important
post was reserved to the enormous mass of the sun ;
and that body became the ﬂaming pivot of eight sur
rounding spheres, whose movements were hence
forth subjected to precise calculation?‘
It was indeed a great thing for the human mind
to have undertaken to determine the disposition and
order of the great engines of nature ; but not con
tent with this ﬁrst eﬂ'ort,it still endeavoured todevel
ope the mechanism, and discover the origin and the
instinctive principle. Hence, engaged in the abstract
and metaphysical nature of motion and its ﬁrst cause,
of the inherent or incident‘.al 'properties of matter,
its successive forms and its extension, that is to say.,
of time and space unbounded, the physical theolo
gians lost themselves in a chaos of subtile reasoning
and scholastic controversy. '
\ In the ﬁrst place, the action ofthe sun on terrestrial.
bodies teaching them to regard his substance as_ a
" Consult the Ancient Astronomy of M. Bailly, and you
will ﬁnd our assertions respecting the knowledge of the
priests amply proved. .
CHAPTER XX“. 221
pure and elementary ﬁre,'they made it the focus and
reservoir of an.ocean of igneous and luminous ﬂuid ;
which, under the name of ether, ﬁlled the universe
and nourished all beings. Afterwards, having dis
covered by a physical and attentive analysis, this same
ﬁre, or another perfectly resembling it, in the com
position of all bodies, and having perceived it to be
the essential agent of that spontaneous movement
which is called Zifein animals,and vegetation in plants,
they conceived the mechanism and harmony of the
universe, as of a homogenous WHOLE, of one iden
tical body, whose parts, though distant, had never
theless an intimate relation ;* and the world was a
.living being, animated by the organic circulation of
an igneous and even electrical ﬂuid;T which, by a
term ofcomparison borrowed ﬁrst from men and ani
mals, had the sun for a heart and a focus.t
"These are t.he very words of Jamblicus. De Myst.
.i‘Eg_vpt.
\ 1- The more I consider what the ancients understood by
ether and spirit, and what the Indians call alaclle, the stronger
do I ﬁnd the analogy betwet it and the electrical ﬂuid. A
luminous ﬂuid, principle of cu'mth and motion, pervading
the universe, forming the matter of the stars, having small
round particles,which insinuate themselves into bodies, and
ﬁll them by dilating itself, be their extent what it will.
’What can more strongly resemble electricity 2
* Natural philosophers, says Macrobius, call the sun 'the
.heart of the world. Som. Scip. c. 20. The Egyptians, says
’Plutarch, call the East the face, the North the right'side, and
the South the left'side of the world, because there the heart
is placed. They continually compare the universe to a‘man;
U
“I
222 CHAPTER XXII.
ii?
\ From this time the physical theologians seem to
have divided into several classes; one class, ground
ing itself on these principles resulting from observa
tion ; that nothing can be annihilated in the.world ;
that the elements are indestructible ; that they
change their combinations but not their nature; that
the life and death of beings are but the different mo
diﬁcations of the same atoms ; that matter itself poss
esses properties which give rise to all its modes of
existence ; that the world is eternal,* or unlimited
in space and duration; said that the whole universe
was God : and, according to them, God was a being
qfect and cause, agent and[mlient ,' moving ﬂrim'i/21c
and thing moved, having ﬁor laws the invariable pro
perties that constitute fatality 5 and this class con
veyed their idea by the emblem of Pan (the great
rwhole) ,- or of Jupiter with a forehead of stars,
body of planets, and feet of animals; or of the Or
. phic Eggﬂ’ whose yolk, suspended in the centre of
a liquid, surrounded by a vault, represented the globe
of the sun, swimming in ether in the midst of the
vault of heaven,t sometimes by a great round ser
and hence the celebrated micrgcosm of the Alchymists. We
observe, by the bye, that the Alchymists, Cabalists, Free.
masons, Magnetisera, Martinists, and every other such sort
of visionax'ies, are but the.mistaken disciples of this ancient
school; we saymistaken, because, in spite of their preten
sions, the thread of the occult science is broken.
* See the Pythagorean,v0cellus Lacunus.
' 1Vide.(Edip. Egypt. Tome i1. page 205. .1
This comparison of the sun with the yolk of an. egg re.
fers = .1. to its round and yellow ﬁgure ; 2. To its central
‘t
CHAPTER XXII. 223
pent(representing the heavens where they placed the ﬂ
moving principle, and for that reason of an azure co
lour, studded with spots of gold, the stars) devour
ing his tail, that is, folding and unfolding himself ’
eternally, like the revolutions of the spheres ; some
times by that ol'.man,having his feetjoined together
and tied, tosignifyimmutable existence,wrapped in a
cloak of all colours, like the face of nature, and
bearing on his head a sphere of gold,* emblem of the
sphere ofthe stars ; or by that of another man, some
times seated on the ﬂower of the lotus borne on the
abyss of waters, sometimes lying on a pile of twelve
cushions, denoting the twelve celestial signs. And
here, Indians, Japanese, Siamese, Tibetans and Chi
nese, is the theology, which, founded by the Egyp
tians and transmitted to you, is preserved in the pic
tures which you compose of Brama, of Beddou, of
Somona-Kodom,of()mito' This, ye Jews and Chris
situation; 3. To the germ orprinciple of life contained in
the yolk. May not the oval form of the egg allude to the
elipsis of the orbs ? I am inclined to this opinion. The word
Orphic ol'Fel.s a farther observation _ Macrohius says (Som.
Scip. c. 14. and c. 20), that the sun is the brain of the uni
verse, and that it is from analog'y that the skull of a human
being is round, like the planet, the seat of intelligence. Now
the word (Erph signiﬁesin Hebrew the brain and its seat
(cervix) : Orpheus then is the same &j'fB§dOll or Baits ;
and the Bonzes are those verv Orphies which Plutarch rc
presents as qnacks, who ate no meat, vcnded talismans and
little stones, and deceived individuals, and even governments
themselves. See a learned memoir of Freret sur les 0rphi
ques, Acad. drs Inccrip. _al. 23. in quarto.
' See Porphyry in Eusebius, Prlep. Evang. lib. 8. p. 115.
224 CHAPTER XXII.
' tians, is likewise the opinion of which you have pre
served a part in your God moving on the _/Ewe of the
waters, by an allusion to the wind* which, at the be
ginning of the world, that is, the departure of the sun
from the sign of cancer, announced the inundation of
the Nile, and scemedto prepare thqcreation.
1 The Northern or Etesian wind, which commences regur
Ian.ly at the solstice, with the inundation.
. I
§. 1. A
Seventh system. Worshijt . of the Soul. of .t/iti
\VoaLn ; [bat is to say, the element ofﬁre, 'umixz
jirincijile of the universe. '
‘ But others, disgusted at the ideaof abeing at once
effect and cause, agent and patient, and uniting con
trary natures in the same nature, distinguished the
moving principle from the thing moved; and pre
mising that matter in itse{f was inert, they pretended
that its properties were communicated to it by a dis
tinct agent, of which itself was only the cover or the
case. This agent was called by some the igneous
principle, known to be the author of all motion; by
others it was supposed to be the ﬂuid called ether,
which was thought more.active and subtile ; and, as
in animals the vital and moving principle was called
awul,a 8/zir-it, and as they reasoned constantly by
comparisons, especially those drawn from human
beings, they gave to the moving principle of the uni
verse the name of soul, intelligence, sju'n't ,' and God
was the vital spirit, which extended through all_
beings and animated the vast body of the world.
And this class conveyed their ideasometimes by You
1iiter,* essence of motion and animation, /irinci/2le of
’This is the true pronunciation of the Jupiter of the
Latins.... Existence im_lf. This is the signiﬁcation of the
word Tom
(1 2
226 CHAPTER XXII.
aasistence, or rather existence itself; sometimes by
Vulcan or Pluha, elementary principle of ﬁre; or
by the altar of Vesta, placed in the centre of her
temple, like the sun in the heaven; sometimes by
Kneﬂb, a human ﬁgure dressed in dark blue, having ‘
in one hand a sceptre and a girdle (the zodiac) with a
cap of feathers to express the fugacity of thought,
and producing from his mouth the great Egg.
\ Now, as a consequence o£ this system, every being
containing in itself a portion of the igneous and
etherial ﬂuid, common and universal mover, and this
ﬂuid soul of the world being God, it followed that
the souls of all beings were portions of God himself,
partaking of all his attributes, that is, being a sub’
stance indivisible, simple and immortal ; and hence
the Whole system of the inunortality of the soul,
whicltvat,ﬁrst was eternity.‘
*' In the system ofthe ﬁrst spiritualists, the soul was not
created with, or at the same time as the body, in order to be
inserted in it : its existence was supposed to be anterior and
from alleternity. Such, in a few words, is the doctrine of
Macrobius on this head. Sm. sap.jmuim.
\ “ There exists a luminous, igneous, suhtile ﬂuid, which
under the name of the ether and spiritus,. ﬁlls the universe.
' It is the essential principle and agent of motion and life ; it is
_ the Deity. When an earthly body is to be animated, a small
> f round particle ofthis ﬂuid gravitates through the milky way
fowards the lunar sphere ; where, when it arrives, it unites
with a grosser air, and becomes ﬁt to associate with matter :
it then enters and entirely ﬁlls the body, animates it, suffers,
grows, increases, and diminishes with it ; lastly, when the
body dies, and its gross elements dissolve, this incorrnpti»
\
CHAPTER XXII. 22?
Hence also its transmigrations, known by the name
of metempsychosis, that is, the passage of the vital
ble particle takes its leave of it, and returns to the grand
ocean of ether, if not retained by its union with the lunar air :
it is this air or gas, which retaining the shape of the body, 2*“
becomes aphantom or ghost, the perfect representation of ’ '
the deceased. The Greeks called this phantom the image I
or idol of the soul ; the Pythagoreans, its chariot. its frame ; .
and the Rabbinical school, its vessel, Or boat. When a man
had conducted himselfwell in this world, his whole soul, that
is, its chariot and ether, ascended to the moon, where a.
separation tookplace : the chariot lived in the lunar Elysium, _
. and the ether returned to the ﬁxed sphere, that is, to God :
for the ﬁxed heaven, says Macrobius, was by many called by
the name of God (c. 14.). Ifaman had not lived virtuously,
the soul remained on earth to undergo puriﬁcation, and was
to wander to and fro, like the ghosts of Homer, to whom this
doctrine must have been known, since he wrote after the time
of Pherecydes and Pythagoras, who were its promulgators
in Greece. Herodotus upon this occasion says, that the
whole romance of the soul and its transmigrations was in
vented by the Egyptians, and propagated in Greece by men,
who pretended to be its authors. I know their names, adds
he, but shall not mention them (lib. 2.). Cicero, however,
has positively informed us, that it was Pherecydes, master
of Pythagoras. Tuscal. lib. 1. sect. 16. Now admitting that
this system was at that period a novelty, it accounts for Solo
mou’s treating it as a fable, who lived 130 years before Phero
cydes. “ Who knoweth,” said he, “ the spirit of a man that
it goeth upwards ? I said in my heart concerning the estate
of the sons of men, that God might manifest them, and that
they might see that they themselves are beasts. For that
which befalleth the sons of men, befalleth beasts ; even one
thing befalle‘h them : as the one dieth, so dieth the other ;
yea, they have all one breath, so that a man hath no pre'emi
nence above a beast : for allis vanity.” Eccles. c.1lL v. 1,8:
228 CHAPTER XXII
principle from one body to another; an idea which
arose from the real transmigration of the material
elements. And behold, ye lndians, ye Budsoists, ye
Christians, ye Mussulmen, whence are derived all
your opinions on the spirituality of the soul; behold
what was the source of the dreams of Pythagoras and
Plato, your masters, who were themselves but the
echoes of another, the last sect of visionary philoso
phers, which we will proceed to examine.
l
And such had been the opinion of Moses, as a translator of
Herodotus (M. Archer, of the Academy of Inscriptions) just
ly ohsenres in note 389 of the second book ; where he says
also, that the immortality of the soul was not introduced
among the Hebrews till their intercourse with the Assyrians.
In other respects, the whole Pythagorean system, properly
analysed, appears to be merely a system of physics badly
dei'stood.
g; 8' r
Eiglu/1 éystem. The WORLD-MAc1i1N1~: : worahiji of
the derni-ourgas, or grand aniﬁcér.
Hitherto the theologians, employing themselves
in examining the line and subtile substances of either
and generating ﬁre, had not however ceased to treat
of beings palpable and perceptible to the senses ; ~
and theology continued to be the theory of physical ‘
powers, placed sometimes exclusively in the stars
and sometimes disseminated through the universe ;
but at this period, certain superﬁcial minds, losing
the chain of ideas which had directed them in their
profound studies, or ignorant of the facts on which
they were founded, distorted all the conclusions that
ﬂowed from them by the introduction of a strange
and novel chimera: they pretended that this universe,
these heavens, these stars, this sun, were only a.
machine of an ordinary kind; and applying to this
ﬁrst hypothesis a comparison drawn from the works
of art., they raised an ediﬁce of the most whimsical
sophisms. A machine, said they, does not make it
self; it has had an anterior workman; its very exist
ence provies it. The world is a machine; therefore
it had an artiﬁcer.* '
_
* All the argument9'of the spiritualists are founded on
this. See Marrobius, at the end of the second book, and
Plato, with the comments of Marcilius Ficinw. _ ;
230 CHAPTER XXII.
\ Here then is the Demi-Ourgos or grand artiﬁcer,
constituted God autocratical and suﬂreme. In vain the
ancient philosophy objected to this, by saying that the
artiﬁcer himself must have had parents and progeni
tors ; and that they only added another step to the
ladder by taking eternity from the world, and giving
it to its supposed author. The innovators, not con
tent with this ﬁrst paradox, passed on to a second ;
and, applying to their artiﬁccr the theory of the hu
man understanding, they pretended that the Demi
Ourgos had framed his machine on a plan already
existing in his understanding. Now, as their mas
ters, the physical doctors, had placed in the regions
of the ﬁxed stars the great ﬂrimum mobile, under
the name of intelligence and reason, so their mimics,
the spiritualists, seizing this idea, applied it to their
Demi-Ourgos, and making it a substance distinct and
self-existent, they called it mens or logos (reason or
word). And, as they likewise admitted the existence
of the soul of the World, or solar j1ri11ci1lle, they found
themselves obliged to compose three grades of di
vine persons, which were, lst the Demi-Ourgos, or
working god, 2d the logos, word, or reason, 3d the
sﬂirit or soul (of the world).* And here, Christians,
is the romance on which you have founded your
Trinity ; here is the system which, born a /wretic in
the temples of Egypt, transported a /lagan into the
.schools of Greece and Italy, is now found to be good,
catholic and orthodox, by the conversion of its parti
sans, disciples of Pythagoras and Plato, to Chris
tianity. ’ .
' These are the real types of the Christian Trinity.
g 'v
CHAPTER XXII. 231
It is thus that God, after having been ﬁrst the
visible and various action of the meteors and the
elements ; '
3/
Secondly, the combined powers of the stars, con- _
sidered in their relations to terrestrial beings ',
Thirdly, these terrestrial beings themselves, by
confounding the symbols with their architypes ;
Fourthly, the double power of nature in its two
principal operations of producing and destroying ;
Fifthly, The animated world, with distinction of
agent and patient, of effect and cause ;
Sixrhly, The solar principle, or the element of ﬁre '
considered as the only mover ;
\ Has become ﬁnally, in the last resort, a chimerical
and abstract being, a scholastic subtility of substance
without form, a body without ﬁgure, a vets; delirium '
of the mind, beyond the power of reason at all to - i
comprehend. But vainly does it seek in this last
transformation, to illude the senses; the seal of its .
origin is imprinted upon it too deep to be effaced ;
and its attributes, all borrowed from the physical at
tributes of the universe, such as immensity, eternity/,
.iniiivisibilitg,/,int0mjl1'e/wnsibility; or on the moral
aifections of man, such as goodness, justice, majesty ,
its names* even, all derived from the physical beings
_' In our last analysis we found all the names of the Deity
to be derived from some material objectin which it was sup. *
\
232 CHAPTER XX'l’[.
which were its types, and especially from the .suly
from the planets, and from the world, constantly
bring to mind, in spite of its corruptors, indelible
marks ofits real nature.
Q‘ . '
.‘ . ' '
posed to reside. We have given a considerable number of
instances ; let us add one more relative to our wordGaa'.
This is known to be the Deals of the Ijatins, and the Then:
of the Greeks. Now by the coni'e'ssion of Plato (in Cratyla)
of Macrobius (Saturn, lib. 1. c. 24.) and of Plutarch (Isis
and Osiris) its root is théin, which signiﬁes to wander, like
jalanéin, that is to say, it is synonymous with planets ; be
cause, add our authors, both the ancient Greeks and Bar
barians particularly worshipped the planets. .I know that
such enquires into etymologies have been much decried : but
if, as is the case, words are the representative signs of ideas,
the genealogy of the one becomes that of the other, and a.
good etymological dictionary would be the most perfect his
tory of the human understanding. It would only be necessa
ry in this enquiry to observe certain precautions, which have
hitherto been neglected, and particularly to make an exact
comparison of the value of the letters ofthe different alpha»
bets. But, to continue our subject, we shall add, that in the
Phomician language, the word thah (with ain) signiﬁes also
to wa.nder,s.nd appears tobe the derivation of théin. If we sup
pose Dean to be _derived_frmn the Greek Zeus, a proper name
of i"ou.piter, having zmw, I live, for its root, its sense will be
precisely that ofyuu, and will mean soul of the world, igneous
principle. See note (34-.). Div''11:, which only signiﬁes
Genius, God of the second order, appears to me to come
from the oriental word div, substituted for rlib, wolf and chat-_
cal, one of the emblems ofthe sun. . At Thebes, says Macro
bius, the sun was painted under the form of a wolfor chscal,
for there are no wolves in Egypt. The reason ofthis emblem,
doubtless, is that the chacal, like the cock, announces by_its
cries the sun’s rising; and this reason is conﬁrmed by the
c'HA_g'r1:R xxn. 233
Such is the chain of ideas which the human mind
had already run throtfgll at an epoch previous to the
records of history: and since their continuity proves
that they were the produce of the same series of stu
dies and labours, we have every reason to place their
origin in Egypt, the cradle of their ﬁrst elements.
This progress there may have been rapid; because
the idle curiosity 8f the physical priests had no other
food, in the retirement of the temples, but the enig
ma of the universe, always present to their minds :
and because in the political districts into which that
country was for a long time divided, every state had
its college of priests, who, being by turns auxiliaries
or rivals, hastened by their disputes the progress of
science and discovery.‘ .
analogy ofthe words lykaa, wolf, and I3/M, light of the morn
ing, whence comes lur.
.\ Dias, which is to be understood also ofthe sun, must be
derived from dih, a hawk. “ The Egyptians,” says Porphyry
('Euseb. Pnecep. E'uang p. 92,) “ represent the sun under
thc emblem ofa hawk, because this bird soars to the highest
regions ofair where light abounds.” And in reality we con
tinually see at Cairo large ﬂights of these birds, hovering in
the air, from whence they descend not but to stun us with
their shrieks, which are like the monosyllable dih: aldhere,
as in the preceding example, we ﬁnd an analogy betwcénitlie
wordiiiu, day,light, and dius, god, sun. I,
" One ofthe proofs that all these systems were invented in _
Egypt, is that this is the only country where we see a com
plete body of doctrine formed from the remotcst antiquity.
Clemens Alexandrinus has transmitted to us (StromaI. [ii
6.) a curious detail of the 42 volumes which were home in
,
' X
234 CHAPTER XXIL
There happened already on the borders of the Nile,
what has since been repeated in every country ; as
soon as a new system was formed, its novelty excited
quarrels and schisms ; then, gaining Credit by perse
cution itself, sometimes it effaced antecedent ideas ;
sometimes it modiﬁed and incorporated them ; then,
by the intervention of political revolutions, the ag
gregation of states and the mixture of nations con
fusednll opinions; the ﬁliation of ideas being lost,
the procession of Isis. “ The priest,” sayshe, “ or chanter, car
ries one of the symbolic intsruments of music, and two of the.
books of Mercury: one containing hymns of the gods, the
other the list of kings. Next to him the horoscope (the re
gulator of time,) carries a palm and a dial, symbols of astro
logy; he must know by heart the four books of Mercury
which treat of astrology, the ﬁrst on the order ofthe planets,
the second on the rising of the sun and moon, and the two last
on the rising and aspect of the stars. Then comes the sacred
aﬁthor,with feathers on his head (like Kneph) and a book in
his hand, together with ink, and a reed to write with (as is
still the practice among the Arabs). He must be versed in
hieroglyphics, understand the description of the universe,
. the course of the sun, moon, stars, and planets, be acquaint
ed with the division ot'Egypt into 36 names, with the course
of the Nile, with instruments, measures, sacred ornaments,
and sacred places. Next comes the stole'bearer, who ear
ries the cubit of justice, or measure of the Nile, and a cup
for the lihations ; he hears also in the procession ten volumes
on the subject of sacriﬁce, hymns, prayers, offerings, core.
monies, festivals. Lastly arrives the prophet, bearing in his
bosom a pitcher, so as to be exposed to the view : he is fol
lowed by persons c:u'ryingbread (as at the marriage of Cans.)
This prophet, as president of the mysteries, learns ten other
sacred volumes, .which treat of the laws, the gods, and the
discipline ofthe priests. Now there are in all forty-two vo
CHAPTER XXII. 235
theology fell into a chaos, and became a mere logo
gryph of' old traditions no longer understood. Reli
gion, having strayed from its object, was now nothing
more than a political engine to conduct the credulous
vulgar; and it was used for this purpose, sometimes
by men credulous themselves and dupes of their own'
visions, and sometimes by bold and energetic spirits
in pursuit of great objects of ambition.
lumes, thirty-six of which are studied and got by heart by
these personages, and the remaining six are set apart to be
consulted by the parmphores .. they treat of medicine, the
construction of the human body (anatomy), diseases, reme
dies, instruments, etc. etc.”
We leave the reader to deduce all the consequences of an
Encyclopedia. It is ascribed to Mercury ; but Jambliuis
tells us that each book, composed by priests, was dedicated
to that god, who, on account of his title of genius or demn
Opening the zodiac, presided over every enterprize. He is
the Janus of the Romans, and the Guizmesa of the Indians,
and it is remarkable that Yanus and Guianes are homony
mous. In short, it appears that these books are the source
of all that has been transmitted to us by the Greeks and
Latins in every science, even in alehymy, necromancy, etc.
What is most to be regretted in their loss is that part which
related to the principles of medicine and diet, in which the
Egyptians appear to have made a considerable progress,
and to have delivered many useful observations.
§9.
Religion ofilloscs, or worshiﬂ ofthe soul of the world
(you-jiiler).
Such was the legislator of the Hebrews ; who,
wishing to separate his nation .from all others, and to
form a distinct and solitary empire, conceived the de
sign of establishing its basis on religious prejudices,
and of raising around it a rampart of opinions and of
rites. But in vain did he proscribe the worship of
the symbols which prevailed in Lower Egypt and in
Phoeniciaﬂ’ his god, for that was not the less an
Egyptian god, invented by those priests of whom
Moses had been the disciple ; and Ya/mu/1,1 betrayed
* “ At a certain period,” says Plutarch (dc Iside) “ all the
Egyptians have their animal gods painted. The Thebans are_
the only people who do not employ painters, because they
"’ worship a god whose form comes not under the senses, and
cannot be represented.” And this is the god whom Moses,
educated at Heliopolis, adopted ; but the idea was not of his
invention.
1' Such is the true pronunciation of' the Jehovah of the .
moderus, who violate, in this respect, every rule of criticism ;
since it is evident that the ancients, particularly the eastern
Syrians and Phcenieians, were acquainted neither with the I
nor the V, which are of Tartar origin. The subsisting usage
- of the Arabs, which we have re'establi_shed here, is conﬁrmed
by Diodorus, who calls the god of Moses law, (lib. 1), and
law and Yalwuh are manifestly the same word : the identity
CHAPTER XXII. 237
by its very name essence (of beings,) and by its
symbol, the burning bush, is only the soul ofthe world,
eontiriues in that of You'/liter ,' but in order to render it more
complete, we shall demonstrate the signiﬁcation to be the.
same.
\ In Hebrew, that is to say, in one of'the dialects of the com
Illon language ofLower Asia, Yulwuh is the principle of the
verb hih, to exist, to be, and signiﬁes existing ; in other words,
the principle of life, the mover or even motion (the univer
sal soul ofbeings). Now what is Jupiter ? Let us hear the
Greeks and Latins explain their theology. “ The Egyp
tians,” says Diodorns, after Mamuho, priest of Memphis,_
“ in giving names to the ﬁve elements, called spirit or ether,
You-jbittr, on account ofthe true meaning of. that word : for
sjlirit is the source of life,’ author of the vital principle in
animals ; and forthis reason they consider him as the
father and generator of beings.” For the same reason Homer
says, father, and king of men and gods. (Died. lib. 1. set. 1.)
“Theologians,” says Macrohins, “ consider 1’ou~piter as
the soul of the. world.” Hence the words of Virgil :
“ Muses let us begin with You'piter; the world is full of
You'piter.” (Smnn. Scijxc/1.17) And in the Saturnalia,
he says, “ Jupiter is the sun himself.” It was this also which
made Virgil say, “ The spirit nourishes the life "(of beings),_
and the soul diffused through the vast members Iof the uni.
verse), agitates the whole mass, and forms .but One immense
body.” _ _
loupiter,” says the ancient verses of the Orphic sect,
which originated in Egypt.; verses collected by Onomaeritus
in the days of Pisistratus, Ioupiter, represented with the
thunder in his hand, is the beg‘nning, origm", end and mid
dle ofallthings : a single and universal power, he governs
everv thing; heaven, earth, ﬁre, water, the elemehts, day,
\
, x2
288 CHAPTER XXII.
the moving principle, which the Greeks soon after.
adopted under the some denomination in their your
and night. These are what constitute his immense body :
his eyes are the sun and moon ; he is space and eternity :
_ in ﬁne,” adds Porphyry, “ Jupiter is the world, the universe,
that which constitutes the essence and life of all beings.
Now,” continues the same author, “ as philosophers diﬁered
in opinion respecting the nature and constituent parts of this
god, and as they could invent no ﬁgure that should represent
all his attributes, they painted him in the form of a man.
He is in a sitting posture, in allusion to his immutable es
sence ; the upper part ofhis body is uncovered, because it i!
in theupper regions of the universe (the stars) that he most
conspicuously displays himself. He is covered from the
waist downwards, because respecting terrestrial things he is
more secret and concealed. He holds a sceptre in his left
hand, because on the left side is the heart, and the heart is
the seat of the understanding, which, (in human beings)
regulates every action.” Emeb. 1’l.eper, Eoang p 200.
The followingpassage_()f the geographer and philosopher
Strabo, removes every doubt as to the identity of the ideas
of Moses and those of the heathen theologians.
" Moses, who was one of the Egyptian priests, taught his
followers that it was an egregious error to represent the
Deity under the forms of animals, as the Egyptians did, 01'
in the shape of man, as was the practice of the Greeks and
Africans. That alone is the Deity, said he, which constitutes
heaven, earth, and every living thing ; that Which we call
the 'world, the sum of all things, nature ; _ and no reasonable
, person will think of representing such abeing by tl‘eimﬁg
of any one of; the objects around us. It is for this reas ,
that, rejecting every species of images or idols, Moses wish
ed the Deity to be worshipped without emblems, and ac.
cording to his proper nature ; and he accordingly ordered
stemple worthy of him to be erected, etc. Geograph. 1i_b.
16, p.1lO4. edition of 1707.
CHAPTER XXII. 23$
ﬁlter, regenerating being, and under thatof Ei, ex
istence} which the Thebans consecrated by the name
of Kncﬂh, which Sais worshipped under the emblem
of Isis veiled, with this inscription : lam all that has 1/
been, all that is, and all that is to come, and no mortal
has raised my 'uésil ; which Pythagoras honoured un
der the name of Vesta, and which the stoic philoso—
phy deﬁned precisely by calling it the principle of
The theology of Moses has, then, differed in no respect
from that of his followers, that is to say, from that of the.
Stoics and Epicureans, who consider the Deity as the soul of
the world. This philosophy appears to have taken birth, or
to have been disseminated when Abraham came into Egypt
(200 years before Moses), since _he quitted his system of
idols for that of the god Yalmuh ,' so that we may place its
promulgation about the seventeenth or eighteenth century
before Christ; which corresponds with what we have said
before.
As to the history of Moses, Diodorus properly rep:-esents
it when he says, lib. 34- and 40. “ That the Jews were driven
out of Egypt at :1. time ofdearth, when the country was full of
foreigners, and that Moses, a man of extraordinary prudence
and courage, seized this opportunity of establishing his rc
ligion in the mountains of Judea.” It will seem paradoxical
to assert, that the 600,000 armed men whom he conducted
thither ought to be reduced to 6000; but I can conﬁrm the
'assertion by so many proofs drawn from the books them
selves, that it will be necessary to correct an error which
‘pears to have arisen from the mistake of the transcribers.
' This was the monosyllnble written on the gate of the
temple of Delphos. Plutarch has made it the Subject of a
disscrttttion.
240 CHAPTER XXII.
ﬁre. In vain did Moses wish to blot from his reli
gion every thing which had relation to the stars;
many traits call them to mind in spite of what he has
done; the seven planetary luminaries of the great
candlestick; the twelve stones, or signs in the urim
of the high priest; the feast of the two equinoxes,
which at that time formed each ayear ; the ceremony
of the lamb_ (the celestial ram then in his ﬁfteenth
degree); lastly, the name even of Osiris preserved in
his song)’ and the ark, or coffer, an imitation of the
tomb in which that god was laid, all remain as so many ' .'
Witnesses of the ﬁliation of his ideas, and of their
extraction from the common source.
* These are the literal expressions of the book of Deu- ., '
teronomy, chap. 32. “ The works of Tsour are perfect.” Now
Tsour has been translated by the word creator: its proper
signiﬁcation is to give forms, and this is one of the deﬁnitions’
of Osiris in.Plut_:u.ch. .
<5 10.
Religion of Zoroaster.
’\ Such also was Zoroaster ; who, ﬁve centuries after
l\Ioses, and in the time of David, revived and moral- .
ized among the Medes and Bactrians, the whole
Egyptian system of Osiris and Typhon,. under the
names of Ormuzd and Ahrimanes ; who called the
reign of summer 'virtue and good : the reign of
winter, sin and evil ,' the renewal ofnature to spring,
creation ofthe world ,' the conjunction of the spheres
at secular periods, resurrection; and the Tartarus
and Elysium of the astrologers and geographers were
namedfuturc Ii/'e, hell, and ﬂaradise. In aword, he did
nothing but consecrate the existing dreams of the '
mystical system.
—-‘Q’..
§11.
Blulsaism, or religion of the Samancarm
Such again are the propagators of the .dismal doc
. trige of the Samaneans; who, on the basis of the
metempsychosis, have erected themisanthropic system
of self-denial, and of privations; who, laying it down
as _a principle, that the body is only a prison where
the soul lives in an impure conﬁnement, that life is
u
242 CHAPTER XXII;
Only a dream, and illusion, and the world only a pas
sage to another country, to a life without end, placed
virtue and perfection in absolute immobility, in the
.destruction of all sentiment, in the abnegation of
physical organs, in the annihilation of all our being ;
Vhence resulted 'facts, penances, macerations, soli
tude, contemplations, and all the practices of the de
plorable delirium of the Anchorites. ’
'_-O'
§ 12.
Brahmimn, or Indian system.
And such too were the founders of the Indian'
system ; who, reﬁning after Zoroaster on the two prin
ciples of creation and destruction, introduced an in
termediary principle, that of ﬂreservation, and on
their trinity in unity, of .Brama, Chiven, and Viche
non, accumulated the allegories of their ancient tra
ditions, and the alemhicated subtilities of their me
taphysics.
These are the materials which existed in a scatter
ed state for many centuries in Asia; when a for
tuitous concourse of events and circumstances, on
the borders of the Euphrates and the Mediterranean,
served to form them into new combinations. ,
" \
§. L3.
C’/iristianity, or the allegorical wofsbiﬂ of the sun,_ur_1'
'der the Cabaliaﬁcal names of CHRIS-EN or Cniusr,
and Yes-os or .lEsUs.
In constituting a separate nation, l!Ioses strove in
vain to defend it against the invasion of foreign ideas.
An invisible inclination, founded on the afﬁnity of
theirorigin, had constantly brought back the Hebrews
towards the worship ofthe neighbobring nations ; and
the commercial and political relations which neces
sarily existed between them, strengthened this pro
pensity from day to day. As long as the COTIStltl_ltl0Il
of the state remained entire, the coercive force of the
government and the laws opposed these innovations,
and retarded their progress ; nevertheless the high
jllaces were full of idols ; and the god Sun had his
chariot and horses painted in the palaces ofthe kings,
and even in the temples of Ya'Iron/1; but when the
conquests of the Sultan of Nineveh and Babylon had
dissolved the bands of civil power, the people, left to
themselves and solicited by their conquerors,restrain
.ed no longer their inclination for profane opinions;
and they were publicly established in Judea. First,
the Assyrian Colonies, which came and occupied the
lands of the tribes, ﬁlled the kingdom of Samaria
with dogmas of the Magi, which very soon penetrat
ed into the kingdom of Judea. Afterwards, Jerusa
244 CHAPTER XXII.
lem being subjugated, the Egyptians, the Syrians, the
Arabs, entering this defenceless country, introduced
their opinions ; and the religion of Moses was doubly
mutilated. Besides, the priests and great men, being
transported to Babylon, and educated in the sciences
of the Chaldeans, imbibed, during a residence of se
venty years, the whole of their theology; and from
that momentthe dogmas of the hostile Genius(Satan),
the archangel Michael)’ the ancientofdays (Ormuzd),
the rebel angels, the battles in heaven, the immortal
ity of. the soul, and the resurrection, all unknown to
Moses, or rejected by his total silence respecting
them, were introduced and naturalized among the
Je ws. The emigrants returned to their country with
these ideas ; and their innovation at ﬁrst excited dis
putes between their partisans the Pharisees, and their
opposers the Sadducees, who maintained the ancient
national worship ; but the former, aided by the pro
pensities of the people, and their habits already con
tracted, and supported by the Persians, their deliver
ers and masters, gained the ascendant over the latter;
and the sons of Moses consecrated the theology of
Zoroaster.1
' “The names of the angels and of the months, such as
Gabriel, Michael, Yar, Nisan, etc. came from Babylon, with
the Jews,” says expressly the Talmud of Jerusalem. See
Bcauaob. llist. du Munich. ‘fol. II. p. 624-, where he proves
that the saints of the Almanac are an imitation of the S65
angels of the Persians ; and Jamblicus in his Egyptian Mys'. _
teries, sect. 2. c. 3. speaks of angels, archangels, seraphims,
etc.like a true Christian.
1“ The whole philosophy of the gymnosophists," says
Diogenes Laertius on the authority of an ancient writer, “ is
CHAPTER XXII. 24.5
A fortuitous analogy between two leading ideas.
was highly favourable to this coalition, and became
the basis ofa last system, not less surprising in the
fortune it has had in the world than inthe causes ofits
formation.
After the Assyrians had destroyed the kingdom of
Samaria, some judicious men foresaw the same des
tiny for Jerusalem, which they did not fail to predict
and publish ; and their predictions had the particu
lar turn ofbeing terminated by prayers for a re-estab
lishment and regeneration, uttered in the form of
prophecies. The Hierophants, in their enthusiasm,
had painteda king as a deliverer, who was to ro-estab
lish the nation in its ancient glory ; the Hebrews
were to become once more a powerful, a conquering
nation, and Jerusalem the capital of an empire ex
tended over the whole earth._
, Events having realized the ﬁrst part of these pre
dictions,the ruin of Jerusalem; the people adhered to
the second with a ﬁrmness of belief in proportion to
their misfortunes; and the aﬁiicted Jews expected,
with the impatience of want anddesire,this victorious
king and deliverer, who was to come and save the.
nation of Moses, and restore the empire of David.
derived from that of the Magi, and many assert that of the
Jews to have the same origin.” Lib. 1. c. 9. Megasthencs, an
historian of repute in the days ofSeleucus Micanor, and who
wrote particularly upon India, speaking of the philosophy of
athe ancients respecting natural things, puts the Brachrnans
and the Jews precisely on the same footing.
Y
246 CHAPTER XXlI.
On the other hand, the sacred and mythologica'l
\traditions of preceding times had spread through all
Asia a dogma perfectly analogous. The cry there
was a great mediator, a ﬁnaljudge.', afumre sa'uiour,
a king., god, c'onqucror and lt’g’iS[llL01', who was to re
store the golden age upon earth,* to deliver it from
the dominion of evil, and restore men to the empire
of good, peace and happiness. The people, seized
and cherished these ideas with so much the more avi
dity, as they found in them a consolation. under that
' deplorable state of suffering into which they had been
.plunged by the devastations of successive conquests,
and the barbarous despotism of their governments.
This conformity between the oracles of different na
tions, and those of the prophets, excited the attention
of the Jews ; and doubtless the prophets had the art
to compose their descriptions after the style and ge
nius of the sacred books employed in the pagan mys
teries. There was therefore a general expectation in
Judea of a great ambassador,a ﬁnal saviour ; when a
.singular circumstance determined the epoch of his
eoming. .
It is .found in the sacred books of the Persians and
Chaldeans, that the world, composed of a total re.
volution of'twelve thousand, was divided into two par
. tial revolutions; one of which, the age and reign of
_good,terminated in six thousand; the other.the age
* This is the reason of the application of themany Pagan
'oracles to Jesus, and particularly the fourth eclogue of Vir
gil, and the Sybilline verses. so celebrated among the an
gients.
CHAPTER XXII. 247
and reign of evilfwas to terminate in six thousand
more.
By these records, the ﬁrst authors had understood
the annual revolution of the great celestial orb, called
the world, (a revolution composed of twelve ’months,
or signs, divided each into a thousand parts,) and the
two systematic periods of winter and summer, com
posed each of six thousand. These expressions,
wholly equivocal and badly explained, having receiv
ed an absolute and moral, instead of a physical and
_ astrological sense, it happened that the annual world
was taken for the secular world, the thousand of the
zodiacal divisions, for a lf1ou.s'a11d' of years ; and sup
posing, from the state of things, that they lived in the
age of evil, they inferred that it would end with the
six thousand pretended years)’
\ ’ We have already seen this tradition current among the
Tuscans ; it was disseminated through most nations, and
show us what we ought to think ofall the pretended creations
and terminations of the world, which are merely the begin
nings and endings of astronomical periods.invented by astro
logers. That of the year or solar revolution, being the most
simple and perceptible, served as a model to the rest, and
its comparison gave rise to the most whimsical ideas. Of this
description is the idea of the four ages of the world among
the Indians. Originally these four ages were merely the
four seasons ; and as each season was under the supposed
inﬂuence of a planet, it bore the name of the metal' appro
priated to that planet : thus spring was the age of the
sun, or of gold ; summer the age of the moon, or of
silver; autumn the age of Venus, or of brass, and Win
ter the age of Mars, or of iron. Afterwards when astrono
mers invented tbe great year of 25 and 36 thousand common
years, which had for its object the bringing back all the stars
J18 _ GIIAPTER XXH.
Now, according to calculations ttdmitted by the
Jews, they began to reckon near six thousand years
I
to one point of departure and a general conjunction, the am
biguity ofthe terms introduced a similar ambiguity ofideas ;
and t.le myriads ofcelcstial signs and periods of duration
which were thus measured, were easily converted into so
many revolutions of the sun. Thus the different periods of’
creation which have been so great a source of difﬁculty and
misapprehension to curious cnquirers, were in reality nothing
more than hypothetical calculations ofastromical periods. In
the same manner the creation of the world has been attribu
ted to diﬁ"ercnt seasons of the year, just as these dif
ferent seasons have served for the ﬁctitious period of
these conjunctions ; and of consequence has been adopted
by diiferent nations for the commencement of an ordinary
year. Among the Egyptians this period fell upon the sum
mer solstice, which was the commencement of their year ;
and the departure of the spheres, according to their conjeé-'
cures, fell in like manner upon the period when the sun en
ters Cancer. Among the Persians the year commenced at
ﬁrst in thespring., or when the sun enters Aries ; and from
thence the ﬁrst Christians were led to suppose that God creat
ed the world in the spring:' this opinion is also favoured
by the book ofGenesis ;' and it is farther remarkable, that the
world is not the re said to be created by the God of Moses
fl/'ahouh), but by the Elahim, or gods in the plural,that, is, by
the angels or gem'i, for so the word constantly means in the
Hebrew books. Ifwe farther observe that the root of the
word Elohim signiﬁes strong or powerful, and that the Egyp
tians called their riecrms strong and powerful leaders, attri
buting to them the creation of the world, we shall presently
perceive that the book of Genesis afﬁrms neither more nor
less than that the world was created by the rlemnr, by those
very genii whom, according to Sanchoniathon, Mercury
excited against Saturn, and who were called Ela/u'm. It may
be farther asked why the plural substantive Elohim is made
CHAPTER XXII. ‘ 249
since the supposed creation of the world?‘ This
coincidence caused a fermentation in the public mind.
Nothing was thought of but the approaching end.
They consulted the hierophants and the mystical
books, which differed as to the term ; the great me
diator, the ﬁnal judge, was expected and desired, to
put an end to so many calamities. This being was
so much spoken of, that some person ﬁnally was.said
to have seen him ; and a ﬁrst rumour of this sort
was suﬁicient to establish a general certainty. Popu
to agree with the singular verlrbara (the Elohim creates).
The |'t3:|.‘;01l is, that after the Babylonish captivity the unity of
the Supreme Being was the prevailing opinion of the Jews ;
it was therefore thought proper to introduce a pious solecism
in language, which it is evident had no existence before
Moses : thus in the names of the children of Jacob many 01
them are compounded.of splural verb, to which Elohim is
the nominative case understood, as Raouben \Reuben), they
have looled upon me, and Samammi (Simeon), they Iuwegrant
ed myPrayer ,' to wit, the Elohim. The reason of this ety
mology is to be found in the religious creeds of the wives of
Jacob, Whose gods were the rarnphim of Laban, that is, the
angels of the Persians, and the Egyptian decaus.
' " According to the computation of the Seventy, the period
elapsed consisted of about 5600 years, and this computation
was principally followed. It is Well known how much, in the
ﬁrst ages of the church, this opinion of the end of the world.
agitated the minds ofmen. In the sequel, the general coun
eils, encouraged by ﬁnding that the general conﬂagration did
not come, pronounced the expectation that prevailed hereti
oal, and its believers were called Millenarians ; a circum
stance curious enough, since it is evident from the history of
the gospels that Jesus Christ was a Millenarian, andof con
quencc a heretic. '
1.2
%0 CHAPTER XXII.
lar report became an established fact : the imaginary
being was realized ; and all the circumstances of my
thological tradition, being assembled around this
phantom, produced a regular history, of which it was
no longer permitted to doubt.
These mythological traditions recounted, that .in
the beginning, a woman andzz man had by theirfall
introduced sin and misery into the world. (Consult
plate III.)
_‘ By this was denoted the astronomical fact, that the
celestial virgin and the berdsman (Bootes) by setting
hcliacly at the autumnal equinox, delivered the world
to the wintry constellations, and seemed, on falling
below the horizon, to introduce into the world the
Genius of evil, Ohrimamee, represented by the con
stellation ofthe Serpent.*
These traditions related that the woman had de
cayed and seduced the man.T
\ * “ The Persians,” says Chardin, “ call the constellation
of the serpent Oplaiuruc, serpent of Eve; and this serpent
Oﬂliucus t'r Ophlol/eus plays a similar part in the theology of
the Pho:nicians,,” for Pherecydes, their disciple and the mas
{er of Pythagoras, said “that Ofihioneus Ser]Je1ltinus.l1ad
been chief of the rebels against Jupiter.” See Mars. Fmin.
Apol.. Socrat. p. m. 797. col. 2. Ishall addthat ejJhah(witl1
Gin) signiﬁes in Hebrew serpent.
1 In a physical sense to seduce, scducere, means only to at
tract, to draw after us.
CHAPTER XXIL 251
And, in fact, the virgin, sitting ﬁrst, seems to draw_
the herdsmcm after her.
’in
“ That thewoman temjited him by oﬂ'erl'ng himfruit
fair to the eight and good to cat, which gave the know
ledge ofgood and evil.
And, in fact, the Virgin holds in her hand a branch
of fruit, which she seems to offer to the Herdsman :
and the branch, emblem of autumn, placed in the
picture of Mithra* between winter and summer,
seems to open the door and give knowledge, the key
of good and evil.
That this cou/tle had been drivenfrom the celestial
garden, and that a cherub with aﬁaming s'word had
been ﬂlaeed at the gate to guard it.
\.And, in fact, when the 'virgin and the herdsman fall
beneath the horizon, Perseus rises on the other side ;t
* See this picture in Hyde, page iii, edition of 1760.
1' Rather the head of Medusa : that head ofa woman once
so beautiful, which Perseus cut off', and which he holds in
his hand, is only that of the virgin, whose head sinks below
the horizon at the very moment that Perseus rises ; and the
serpents which surround it are Orphiueus and the Polar Dra
gon, who then occupy the zenith. This shews us in what
manner the ancients composed all their ﬁgures and fables.
They took such constellations as they found at the same time
on the circle of the horizon, and collecting the ditferent
parts, they formed groups which served them as an almanac '1 '
in hieroglyphic characters. Suchis the secret of all their it
252 CHAPTER XXII’.
and this Genius, with a sword in his hand, seems to.
drive them from the summer heaven, the garden and
dominion Of fruits and ﬂowers. ,
That of this 'virgin should be born, s/11-ing uji, an
oﬂ}/lring, a child, who should bruise the head Qft/ie
serﬂent, and deliver the worldfrom sin.
\This denotes the sun, which, at the moment of the
winter solstice, precisely when the Persian Magi drew
the horoscope of the new year, was placed on the bo
som of the Virgin, rising heliacly in the eastern ho
rizon ; on this account he was ﬁgured in their astro
logical pictures under the form of a child suckled by
a chaste virgin)’ and became afterwards, at the ver
pictures, and the solution of alltheir mythological monsters
The virgin is also Andromeda, delivered by Perseus from
the whale that[mrsuee her (Pro-cequirur).
I Such was the picture of the Persian sphere, cited by
Aben Ezra in the Caelum Poeticum of Blaeu, p.71. “ The
picture of the ﬁrst decau of the Virgin,” says that writer,
“ represents a beautiful virgin with ﬂowing hair, sitting in a
chair, with two cars of corn in her hand, and suckling an in
fant, called Jesus by some nations, and Christ in Greek.”
In thelibrary of the king ofFrance is a manuscript in Ara
bic, marked 1165, in which is a picture of the twelve signs ;
and thatdf the Virgin represents a young woman with an
infant by her side : the whole scene indeed of the birth of
Jesus is to be found in the adjacent part of the heavens. The
v ' ible is the constellation of the charioteer and the goat, for.
1f1erly Capricorn ; a constellation called pnzsepe Jaw’: Henia
.,_.y chi, stable qf Iou; and the word ha is found in the name
CHAPTER XXII. 253
ual equinox, the ram, or the lamb, triumphant over
the constellation of the Serpent, which disappeared
from the skies.
That in his inﬁmcy, this rcstarer ofdivine and ce
lesliol nature would live abused, humble, obscure and
indigent.
And this, because the winter sun is abased below
the horizon; and that this ﬁrst period of his four
ages, or seasons, is a time of obscurity, scarcity, fast
ing and want. \
Ion-seph (Joseph). At no great distance is the ass of Typhon
(the great shebear), and the ox or bull, the ancientattencL
ants of the manger. Peter the porter, is Janus with his
keys and bald forehead : the twelve apostles are the genii
of the twelve months, etc. This Virgin has acted very dif
ferent parts in the various systems of mythology: she has
been the Isis of the Egyptians, who said ofher in one of their
inscriptions cited by Julian, thefruit Ihave broughtjbrth is the
’sun. The majority of traits drawn by Plutarch apply to her, it..
in the same manner as those of Osiris apply to Bootes ; also
the seven principal stars ofthe she .bear, called David’schariot,
were called the chariot of Osiris (See Kirber) : and the crown
that is situated behind, formed of ivy, was called Chen-Osiri 0,
the tree of Osiris. The Virgin has likewise been Ceres,
whose mysteries were the same with those of[sis and Mithra:
she has been the Diana of the Ephesians ; the great goddess
of Syria, Cybele, drawn by lions ; Minerva, the mother of
Bacchus ; Astrza, a chaste virgin taken up into heaven at the
end of the golden age ; Themis, at Whose feet is the balance
that was put in her hands : the Sybil of Virgil, who descends
into hell, or sinks below the hemisphere with a branch is her i_ “
hgmd, etc. ' 'J
_’
254 ' CHAPTER XXII.
_ That, being /mt to deal]: by the wicked, he had ri
sen gloriously ; that he had re-ascendedfrom hell to
heaven, where he would reignfor ever.
This is a sketch ofthe life of the sun ; who, ﬁnish
ing' his career at the winter solstice, when Typhon
and the rebel angels gain the dominion, seems to be
put to death by them ; but who soon after is born.
again, and rises‘ into the vault of heaven, where he
reigns.
\Finally, these traditions went so far as to mention
_‘__even his astrological and mythological names, and
inform us that he was called sometimes Chris, that is
to say ﬂrescrwr ,'1' and from that, ye Indians, you
' Resurgern to rise a second time, cannot signify to return
tolife, but in a metaphorical sense; but we s~e continually
mistakes of this kind result from the ambiguous meaning of
the words made use of in ancient tradition
'l'The Greeks used to express by X, or Spanish iota, the .
aspirated /16 of the Orientals, who said Ilﬁfic. In Hebrew
hcrcs signiﬁes the sun, but in Arabic the meaning of the ra
dical word is, to guard, to preserve, and of hﬁris, guardian,
preservcr. It is the proper epithet of Vichenou, which de
monstrates at once the identity of the Indian and Christian
Trinities, and their common origin. It is manifestly but one
system, which, di_ided into two branches, one extending to
the east, and the other to the west, assumed two diﬂ'crent
forms : its principal trunkis the I’ythag0re:m system of the
soul of the world, or Iou'piter. The epithet faiter, or father,
having been applied to the demi'ourgos of Plato, gave rise
to an ambiguity which caused an enquiry to be made res
‘ pecting the son ofthis father. In the opinion ofthe philoso
CHAPTER XXII. 255
have made your god Chris-en or Chris-mi ,' and, ye
Greek and Western Christians, your Chris-tor, son_
of Mary, is the same ; sometimes he is called Yes, by
the union of three letters, which by their numerical
value form the number 108, one of the solar periods.‘
And this, Europe'ans, is the name which, with the
phers the son was understanding, Nous and Logos, from
which the Latin: made their Verbum. And thus we clearly
perceive the origin of the eternal father and of the Verbum
his son, proceeding from him ( Men: Ex Deu nata, says
Macrobiu): the anima or :[>iritu: mum/i, was the Holy
Ghost ; and it is for this reason that Manes, Pasilide s, Valen
tinius, and other pretended heretics of the ﬁrst ages, who
traced things to their source, said, that God the father was
the supreme inaccessible light (that of the heaven, the pri
mum mobile, or the alblanes l.' the Son the secondary light
residentin the sun, and the Holy Ghost the atmosphere ofthe
earth (See Beau:ob. Vol. II. p. 586): hence, among the Syrians,
the representation of the Holy Ghost by a dove, the bird
of Venus Urania that is, of the air. The Syrians (says
Nigidiua de Germanico) assert that a dove sat for a certain
number ofdays on the egg of a ﬁsh, and that from this in
cmnbation Venus was born: Sextus Empiricus also observe;
(Inst. Pyrrh. lib. 3. c. 23.) that the Syrians abstain from eat~
ing doves; which intimates to us a period commencing in
the sign Pi:ceo, in the winter solstice. We may farther ob
serve, that if Chris comes from Harhch by a chin, it will sig—
nify artlﬁcer, an epithet belonging to the sun. These varia
tions, which must have embarrassed the ancients, prove it
to be the real type of Jesus, as had been already remarked
in the time of Tertullian. “ Many, says this writer, suppose
with greater probability that the sun is our God, and they re
l'er us to the religion of the Persians.” U Jﬂologet. c. 16.
See a curious ode to the Sun, by Martianus Capella, tran
slated by Gebelin.
256 CHAPTER XXII.
Latin termination, is become your Yes-us or Jesus,
the ancient and cabalistic name attributed to young
Bacchus, the clandestine son (nocturnal) of the Vir
gin Minerva, who in the history of his whole Life, and
even of his death, brings to mind the histor; of the
god of the Christians, that is, of the star of day, of_
which they are each of them the emblem.
Here a great murmur having arisen among all the
Christian groups, the Lamas, the Mussulmen, and
the Indians called them to order ; and the orator
went on to ﬁnish his discourse:
You know at present, said he, how the rest of this
system was composed in the chaos and anarchy of
the three ﬁrst centuries ; what a multitude of singu
lar opinions divided the minds of men, and armed
them with anenthusiasmyand a reciprocal obstinacy ;
because being equally founded on ancient tradition, '
they were equally sacred. You know how the gov
ernment, after three centuries, having embraced one
of these sects, made it the orthodox, that is to say,
the predominant religion, to the exclusion of the
rest; which being less in number, became heretics;
you know how and by what means of violence and
seduction this religion was propagated, extended,
divided and enfeebled; how, six hundred years after
the Christian innovation, another system was formed
out of it, and of that of the Jews; and how Mahom-'
ct found .the means of composing a political and
theological empire at the expense of those. of Moses
and the vicars of esus.
CHAPTER XXl_1. 257
Now, if you take a review of the whole history of
the spirit of all religion, you will see that in its ori
gin it has had no other author'than the sensations and
wants of man ; that the idea of God has had n0_0the_r
type and model than those of physical powers, mate
rial beings, producing either good or_e\.il,by impres
sions of pleasure or pain on sensitive beings ,' that in
the formation of all these systems the spirit of reli
. gion has always followed the same course, and been
uniform in its proceedings; that in all of them the
dogma has never failed to represent, under the name
of Gods, the operations of nature, and passions and
prejudices of men; that the moral of them all has
had for its object the desire of happiness and the
aversion to pain ; but that the people, and the great
er part of legislators, not knowing the route to be
pursued, have formed false, and therefore discordant
ideas, of virtue and vice, of good and evil, that is to
say, of what renders man happy or miserable ; that
in every instance, the means, and the causes of pro
pagating and establishing systems have exhibited the
some scenes of I)aSSiOl\S and the some events; every
where, disputes about words. pretexts for zeal, revg.
lutious and w.ars,cxcited by the ambition of princes,
the knavery of apostles, the credulity of proselytes,
the ignorance of the vulgar, the exclusive cupidity
and intolerant arrogance of all. lntleed, you will
see that the whole history of the spirit of religion is
only the history of the errors of the human mind;
which, placed in a world that it does not comprehend,
en(leavours nevertheless to solve the enigma ; and
which, beholding with astonishment this mysterious
and visible prodigy, imagines causes, supposes rea
z
258 CHAPTER XXII.
sons, builds systems; then, ﬁnding one defective,
," destroys it for another not less so; hates the error
that it quits, mistakes the one that it embraces, re‘
jccts the truth that it is seeking, composes chimeras
' ’ of discordant beings; andkalways dreaming of wis
.dom and happiness, wanders in the labyrinth of illu
sion and pain.
(>'HAPTER XXIII. '
ALL RELIGIONS HAVE THE saw-1 onucr.
I HUS spoke the orator in the name of those men
who had studied the origin and succession of reli
gious ideas. . '
The theologians of various systems, reasoning on '
this discourse : it is an impious representation, said °
some, whose tendency is nothing less than to over
turn all belief, to destroy subordination in the minds
of men, and annihilate our ministry and our power.
It is a romance, said others, a tissue of conjectures,
composed with art, but without foimdation. The
moderate and /irudenl men added : Supposing all this
to be true, why reveal/these mysteries 2 Doubtless
our opinions are full of errors ; but these errors are .1
anecessary restraint on the multitude. The world
has gone thus for two thousand years; why change
it now 2 I
A murmur of disapprobation, which never fails to
rise at every innovation, now began to increase ;
whena numerous group of the common classes.of
260 GHAPTER XXIII..
people and of untaught men of all countries and at’
every nation, without prophets, without doctors, and
without doctrine, advancing in the circle, drew the
attention of the whole assembly; and one of them, in
the name of all, thus addressed the assembly:
Mediators and arbiters of nations ! the strange re'_
lations which have occupied the v present debate
_ were unknown to us until this day. Our under
standing, confounded and amazed at so many things,
some of them learned, others absurd, and all incom
prehensible, remains in uncertainty and doubt. One
only reﬂection has struck us : on reviewing so many
prodigious facts, so many contradictory assertions,
we ask ourselves : VVhat are all these discussions
to us : What need have we of knowing what passed
'. ﬁve or six_thousand years ago, in countries we never
5 heard of, and among men who will ever be unknown
to us,? True or false, what interest have we in know
ing whether the world has existed six thousand, or
twenty-ﬁve thousand years? \Vhether it was made
ofnothing, or of something ; by itself, or by a maker,
who in his turn Would require another maker ?
What! we are not sure of what happens near us;
and shall we answer for what happens in the sun, in
the moon, or in imaginary regions of space? We
have forgot our own inﬁmcy ; and shall we know the
infancy of the world? And who will attest what no
one has seen ? YVho will certify what no man com
prehends ?
Besides, what addition or diminution will it make
/ to our existence, to say yes or 120 to all these chi
CHAPTER XXIII. Q61
meras? Hitherto neither our fathers nor ourselves
have had the least knowledge or notion of them ; and /
we do not perceive that we have had on this account
either more or less of the sun, more or less of sub
ais'tence, more or less ofgood or of evil.
If the knowledge of these things is so necessary,
why have we lived as well without it, as those who
have taken to much trouble about it ? if this know
ledge is superﬂuous, why should we burthen our
selves with it to-day 2 Then addressing himself to
the doctors and theologians : “That ! said he, is it
necessary that we, poor and ignorant men, whose
every moment is scarcely suﬁicient for the cares of
life,'and the labours of which you take the proﬁt,-is
it necessary for us to learn the numberless histories
that you have recounted,to read the Qantity of books
that you have cited, and to study the various lan-
guages in which they are composed ! A tliousaiid
years of life would not suﬂice....,.
/1
It is not necessary, replied the doctors, that you.
should acquire all this science ; we have it for you....—
But even you, replied the simple men, with all
your science, you are not agreed ; of what advantage
then is your science ? Besides, how can you answer
for us ? If the faith of one man is applicable to many,
what need have even you to believe ? Your fathers.
may have believed for you; and this would be rea—
sonable, since they have seen for you. .
\
l?arther, what isbelieving, if believing intluencesno
z2 .
262 €HAPTER XXIII.
action ? And what action is inﬂuenced by believing,
for instance, that the world is or is not eternal ?
\ The latter would be offensive to God, saiil the doc- '
How prove you that? replied the simple men."
tors.
Inour books, answered the doctors. We do not
understand them, returned the simple men. We
understand them for you, said the doctors. That is
the difﬁculty, replied the simple men. By what.
right do you constitute yourselves mediators between
God and us ? By his orders, said the doctors. Where:~
is the proof of these orders ? said the simple men.
In our books, said the doctors. We understand
them not, said the simple men ; and how came this
just God to give you this privilege over us ? Why
did this common father oblige us to believe on a less
degree of evidegce than you ? He has spoken to you;
be it so ; he is infallible, and deceives you not. But
it is you who speak to us ! And who shall assure us
that you are not in error yourselves, or that you
will not lead us into error ? And if we should be de
ceived, how will that just God save us contrary to
law, or condemn us on a law which we have not
known ?
He has given you the natural law, said the doctors.
Om I
And what is the natural law? replied the simple
men. If that law is suﬂicient, why has be given any
other ? Ifit is not sufﬁcient, why did he make it im
perfect 3
His judgments are mysteries, said the doctors,
s
(EHAPTER XXIII. 26.3
and his justice is not like that of men. If his jus-
tice, replied the simple men, is not like ours, by
what rule are we tojudge of it ? And, moreover, why
all these laws, and what is the object proposed by
them?
To rerider you more happy, replied adoctor, by
'rendering you better and more virtuous : it is to
teach man to enjoy his beneﬁts, and not injure each
other, that God has manifested himself by so many
oracles and prodigies.
In that case, said the simple men, there is no ne- '
c-essity for so many studies, nor of such a vqiety of
arguments; only tell us which is the religion that
best answers the end which they all propose.
Immediately on this, every group, extolling its own
morality above that of all others, there arose among
the different sects a new and most violent dispute. It
is we, said the Mussulmen, who possess the most ex
cellent morals, who teach all the virtues useful to
men, and agreeable to God. We profess justice,
diaintercstedneu, _rn>ignati0rl to ﬂra'uidcncr, clmrily
to our brelln'en, aims and d1''u0li0n ; we torment not
the soul with superstitious fears; we live without
alarm, and die without remorse.
How dare you to speak of morals, answered the
Christian priests, you whose chief lived in licen
_tiousness and preached impurity? You whose. ﬁrst
precept is homicide and war. For this we app_ai to
experience: for these twelve hundred years'your fa
..¢* Q
264 CHAPTER XXllI.
natical zeal has not ceased to spread commotion and
carnage among the nations. If Asia, so ﬂourishing
in former times, is now languishing in barbarity and
depopulation, it is in your doctrine that we ﬁnd the
cause ; in that doctrine, the enemy of all instruction,
which sanctiﬁes ignorance, which consecrates the
most absolute despotism in the governors,’ imposes
the most blind and passive obedience in the people,
has stupiﬁed the faculties of man, and brutalized the
nations.
It is not so with our sublime and celestial morals ;
it is they which raised the worldfrom its primitive
barbarity, from the senseless and cruel superstitions
of idolatry, from human sacritices,* from the
shameful orgies of pagan mysteries; they it was
that puriﬁed manners, proscribedincest and adultery,
polished savage nations, banished slavery, and intro
duced new and unknown virtues, charity .for men,
their equality in the sight of God, forgiveness and
forgetfulness of injuries, the restraint of all the pas-
sions, the contempt of worldly greatness, al.ife com
pletely spiritual and completely holy Z
W'e admire, said the Mussulmen, the ease with
whi.ch you reconcile that evangelical meekuess, of,
Read the cold declaration of Eusebius (Prep. Eoengl lib.
'1. 1:. 11.), who pretends that, since the coming of Christ,
there have neither been wars, nor tyrants, nor cannibals, nor
sodomites, nor persons committing incest, nor savages dos.
troy.lug their parents, etc. W'hen we read these fathers of
the church we are astonished at their insinccrity or infatua-
Lion,
i
CHAPTER XXIII. 265
which you are so ostentatious, with the injuries and
outrages with which you are constantly galling your
neighbours. When you criminate so severely the
great man whom we revere, we might fairly retort on
the conduct of him whom you adore; but we scorn
such advantages, and conﬁning ourselves to the real
object in question, we maintain that the morals of
your gospel have by no means that perfection
which you ascribe to them ; it is not true that they
have introducedinto the world new and unknown vir
tues : for example, the equality of men in the sight
of God, that fraternity and that benevolence which
follow from it, were formal doctrines of the sect of
the Hermetics or Samaneansﬁ from whom you de
scend. As to the forgiveness of injuries, the Pagans
themselves had taught it ; but in the extent that you
give it, far from being a virtue, it becomes an immor
ality, a vice. Your so much boasted precept of
turning one cheek after the other, is not only contrary
to every sentiment of man, but is opposed to all ideas
of justice. It emboldens the wicked by impunity,
debases the virtuous by servility, delivers up the
world to despotism and tyranny, and dissolves all so
ciety. Such is the true spirit of your doctrines;
your gospels, in their precepts and parables, never
represent God but as a despot, without any rules of
equity; a partial father, treating a debauched and
prodigal son with more favour than his respectful and
* The equality of mankind in astate of nature and in the
eyes of God, was one of the principal tenets of the Saman
oﬂns, and they appear to be the only ancients that entertained
this opinion. '
/
/
266 ‘ CHAPTER XXIII.
virtuous children; a capricious master, who gives
the same wages to workmen who had wrought but
one hour, as to those who had laboured through the
whole day; one who prefers the last comers to the
ﬁrst. The moral is every where misanthropic
and antisocial; it disgusts men with life and with
society ; and tends only to encourage hermitism and
oelibacy.
As to the manner in which you have practised
these morals, we appeal in our turn to the testimony
of facts : \Ve ask whether it is this evangelical meek
ness which has excited your interminable wars be
tween your sects, your atrocious persecutions of
pretended heretics, your crusades against Ariunisln,
Ma1iicbeis1n, Pratestamisni, without speaking of your
crusades against us, and of those sacrilegious asso
ciations, still subsisting, of men who take an oath to
continue them?’ VVe ask you whether it be gospel
charity which has made you exterminate whole na
tions in America, to annihilate the empires of Mexico
and Peru; which makes you continue to dispeople
Africa and sell its inhabitants like cattle, notwith-.
standing your abolition Qfsla'very ,' which makes you
ravage India and usurp its dominions; and whether
it be the same charity which, for three centuries past,
has led you to havoc the habit.ations of the people of
three continents, of whom the most prudent, the
Chinese and Japanese, were constrained to drive you
' The oath taken by the knights of the Order of Malta, is
"1 km, or make the Mahometans prisoners, for the glory of
God.
CHAPTER XXIII. 9v5;
06', that they might escape your chains and recover
.their internal peace.
‘
Here the Bramins, the R.abbins, the Bonzes, the
Qhamuns, the priests of the Molucca islands, and of
the coast of Guinea, loading the Christian doctors
with reproaches : Yes, cried they, these men are rob
bers and hypocrites. who preach siﬂljllilily, to sur
prise cOI)ﬁ(lCI'|é(:; humi;’hy, to enslave with more
case; 120'uerty, to appropriate all ricl.es to them
selves; they promise another world, the better to
usurp the present; and while they speak to you of
tolerance und charity, they burn, in the name of God,
the men who do not worship him in their manner.
Lying priests, retorted the missionaries, it is you
who abuse the credulity of ignorant nations to sub
jugate them ; it is you who have made of your min
istry an art of clit.sting and imposture; you have
converted religionintoa traﬁic of cupidityund avarice.
You pretend to hold communication with spirits, and
they give for oracles nothing but your wills ; you
feign to read the stars, and destiny decrees only your
desires ; you cause idols to speak, and the gods are
but the instruments of your passions ; you have in
vented sacriﬁces and libations, to collect for your
own proﬁt the millcof ﬂocks, and the ﬂesh and fat of
victims; and, under the cloak of piety, you devour
thc offcringsof the gods, who cannot eat, and the sub
tance of the people who labour.
And you, replied the Bramins, the Bonzes, the
Cham.ans, you sell to the credulous living your vain
268 CHAPTER XXIII.
prayers for the souls of the dead : with your in
dulgences’and your absolutions you have usurped the
power of God himself {and making a trafﬁc of his
favours and pardons, you have put heaven at auction ;
and by your system of expiations, you have_ formed a
tarifof crimes, which has perverted all consciences.Ii
Add to this, said the lmans, that these men have
invented the most insidious of all systems of wicked
ness, the absurd and impious obligation of recount
ing to them the most intimate secrets of actions and
of thoughts (confessions) ; so their irisolent curiosity
has carried their inquisition even into the sanctuary
of the marriage bcd,.l' and the inviolable recesses of
the heart.
* As long as it shall be possible to obtain puriﬁcation from
crimes and exemption fl om punishment by means of money
or other frivolous practices ; as long as kings and great men
shall suppose that buildng temples or instituting foundati0I|S
will absolve them from the guilt ofoppression'and homicide ;
as long as individuals shall imagine that they may rob and
cheat,providedthey observe fast during Lent, go to confession,
and receive extreme unction, it is impossiblethere shouldexist
in society any morality or virtue : and it is from a deep con
viction of truth, that a' modern philosopher has called the
doctrine of cxpiations la vémle rlcs sociétés.
TThe Mussulmen, who suppose women to have no souls,
are shocked at the idea of confession, and say ; How can an
hone st man think of listening to the recital of the actions or
the secret thoughts of :1 woman ? May we not also ask, on the
other hand, how can an honest woman consent to I'C\"CRl
them 2
QHAPTER XXIII. $69
. Thus by mutual reproaches the doctors of the
lifferent sects began to reveal all the crimes of their
ministry, all the vices of their craft; and it was found
that among all nations the spirit of the priesthood,
their system of conduct, their actions, their morals,
Were absolutely the same.
That they had every where formed secrét associa
tions, and corporations at enmity with the rest of so
ciety :*
' That we may understand the general feelings of priests
respecting the rest of mankind, whom they always call by 'the
name ofthe people,let us hear one ofthe doctors ofthechurch.
“ The people,” says Bishop Synnesius, in Calvit. page 315,
are desirous of being deceived, we cannot act otherwise
nespeeting them. The case was similar with the ancient..
priests of'Egypt, and for this reason they shut themselves up
in their temples, and there composed their mysteries, out of
the reach of the eye of the people.” And forgetting what.
he has just before said, he adds : “ for had the people been
in the secret they might have been offended at the deception
played upon them. In the mean Ytime how is it possible to
conduct one’s self otherwise with the people so long as they
are the people 2 for my own part, to myself I shall always be.
apliilonopher, but in deahng with the mass of mankind I
lhall be a priest.” .
“ A little jargon,” says Gregory Nszianzen to St Jerome
(1Iieron.ad.Nc}>.) “ is all that is nccess.-iry to impose on the
people. The less they comprehend, the more they admire.
Our forefathers and doctors of the chu_rch have often said,
not what they thought, but whateircumstauccs and necessity
dictated to them.”
“ We endeavour,” says SanchonintonI “to excite admira
tion by means ofthe marvellous.” tPr¢p. Eoang. lib. 3.
Such was the conduct of all the priests ofantiquity, and is
still that of the Bramins and Lumas who are the exact coun
A 3
270 '_ CHAPTER XXIIL
That they had every where attributed to them—.
selves prerogatives and immunities, by means oi
which they lived exempt from the burdens of other
classes:
That they every where avoided the i'.0llS'0f.t11C._
labourer, the dangers of the soldier, and the disap
pointments of the merchant:
- That they lived every where in celibacy, to shun
even the cares of a family : ' ’
That, under the cloak ofpoverty, they found every
where the secret of procuring wealth and all sorts of’
cnjoyments :
That under the name of mendicity they raised
taxes to a greater amount than princes :
That in the form of gifts and offerings they had
established ﬁxed and certain revenues exempt fl.Ol'H.
charges :
tcrpnrt of the Egyptian priests. Such was the practice of
the Jesuits, who marched with hasty strides in the some
career. It is useless to point out the whole dt..pravity ofsuch
a doctrine. In general every association which has mystery
for its basis, or an oath of secrecy, is a league of robbers
against society, a league divided in its very bosom into
knaves and dupes, or in other words agents and instruments.
Itis thus we ought to judge of those modern clubs, which,
under the name of llluminatists, Martinists, Cagliostronists,
Free'masons and Mesmerites, infest Europe. These societies
are the follies and dcceptions of the ancient Cabalists; Magi
cians, Orphies, etc. who, says Plutarch, led into errors of
considerable magnitude, not only individuals, but kings and
nations.
EHAPTER itxm. ' 211
That under prentence of retirement and devotion
they lived in idleness and licentiousness :
That they had made a virtue of alms-giving, to
live quietly on the labours of others :
That they had invented the ceremonies of wor
ship, as a means of attracting the reverence of the
people, while they were playing the parts ofgods; of
whom they styled themselves the interpreters and
mediators, to _assume all their powers ; that with
this design,they had (according to the degree of ig
norance or information of their people) assumed by
turns the character of astrologers, drawers of horns
toﬁes, fortune-tellers, 1nagicians,"‘ nccromanccrs',
" .What is a magician, in the sense in which people under
stand the word ? A man who by words and gestures pretends
to act onsupernatural beings, and compel them to descend
at his call and obey his orders. Such was the conduct of the
ancient priests, and such is still that of all priests in idola
trous nations ; for which reason we have given them the
denomination ofmagicians.
And when a Christian priest pretends to make God de
scend from heaven, to ﬁx him to a morsel of leaven, and to
render, by means ofthis talisman, souls pure and in a state
of grace, what is all this but a trick of magic 2 And where is
the difference between a Chaman of Tartary, who invokes the
Genii, or an Indiari Bramin, who makes his Vichenou descend
in a vessel ofwater to drive away evil spirits I Yes, the iden- '
tity ofthe spirit of priests in every age and country is fully
established! Every where it is the assumption of an exclu
sive privilege, the 'pretended faculty of moving at will the
. powers of nature; and this assumption is so direct a viola
tion of the right of equality, that whenever the people slmll
regain their importance, they will for ever abolish this sacri
legions kind ufnobility , which has been the type and parent.
stock of the other species ofnobility.
Q
.—. 12 IBHA1>TER xxnr.
quack'e, /ihysicians, courtiera, confimzors afjirinees,
always aiming at the great object, to govern for
their own advantage :
_~—That sometimes they had exalted the power of
"1
kings and consecrated their persons, to monopolizei °
their favours, or participate their sway :
That sometimes they had preached up the murder
’ of tyrants (reserving it to themselves to deﬁne ty
ranny) to avenge themselves of their contempt or
their disobedience.
And that they always stigmatized with imﬂiety .
Whatever crossed their interests ; that they hindered
all public instruction, to exercise the monopoly of
science ; that, ﬁnally, at all times and in all places,
they had found the secret of living in peace in the
midst of the anarchy they created, in safety under
the despotism that they favoured, in idleness amidst
the industry they preached, and in abundance while
surrounded with scarcity ; and all this by carrying
on the singular trade ofselling words and gestures to
oredulous people, who purchase them as commodities
of the greatest value.‘ .
' A curious work would be the comparative history of the
lgnuserof the pope and the jrastils of the grand Lama. It
would be worth while to extend this idea to religious cere
monies in general, and to confront, column by column, the
analogous or contrasting points of faith and superstitious
practices in all nations.
stition which it would be equally salutary to cure, blind ven
eration for the great, and for this purpose it would be alone
suﬂicient to write a minute detail of the private life of kings
and princes. No work could be so philosophical as this :
and accordingly we have seen what a general outcry was
There is one more species of super- _
-' W
275
0
CHAPTER XXIII.
Then the different nations, in a transport of fury,
were going to tearin pieces the men who had thus
abused them; but the Lawgiver, arresting this move
ment of violence, addressed the chiefs and doctors.
_ What ! said he, instructors of nations, is it thus that
you have deceived them ?"
And the terriﬁed priests replied : “ O Laivgiver,
we are men; the people are so superstitious, they
have themselves brought on these errors.”*
And the kings said : “ O Lawgiver, the people are
so servile and so ignorant! they prostrated themselves
before the yoke, which we scarcely dared to show
them.”'|'
Then the Lawgiver turning to the people : “ Peo
ple I said he, remember what you have just heard;
they are two indelible truths. Yes, yourselves cause
the evils of which you complain ; yourselves en
oourage the tyrants by a base adulationoftheir power,
by an imprudent admiration of their false beneﬁ
cence, by servility in obedience, by licentiousness in
excited among kings and the psnders of kings, when the
Anecdotes of the Court of Berlin ﬁrst appeared. What
would be the alarm were the public put in possession of the
sequel of this work ? Were the people fairly acquainted
with all the crimes and all the absurdities of this species of
idol, they would no longer be exposed to covet their specious
pleasures, of which the plsusible and hollow appearance dis
turbs their peace, and hinders them from enjoying the much '
more solid happiness of their own conditions
" Considerin this view the Brabsnters.
1The inhabitants of Vienna, for example, who harnesses!
_ ihemselves like cattle, and drew the chariotofLeopold.
A 3 2
274 CHAPTER XXIV.
liberty, and by a credulous reception of every im
position.”
And the people, struck with confusion, remained
in mournful silence.
\\'
_¢;v'sA
———‘
' CHAPTER XXIV.
SOLUTION OF THE PROBLEM OF CONTRADICTIONS.
TI—IE Lawgiver then resumed his discourse, “ O'
nations! said he, we have heard the discussion of
v your opinions. The different sentiments which di
vide you have given rise to many reﬂections, and fur
nished several questions, which we shall propose to
you to solve.” '
xi“ First, considering the diversity and opposition of
‘ the creeds to which you are attached, we ask on what
motives'you found your persuasion : ls it from a deli
berate choice that you follow the standard of one
Prophet rather than another? Before adopting this
doctrine, rather than that, did you ﬁrst compare ? did
you maturely examine them ! Or have you received
them only from the chance of birth, from the empire
' of education and habit? Are you not born Christians
on the borders. of the Tiber, Mussulmen on those of
the Euphrates, ldolaters on the Indus ; just as you
are born fair in cold climates, and sable under the
scorching sun of Africa? Andif your opinions are
the effect of your fortuitous position on the earth, of
consanguinity,_of imitation; how is it that such a
‘ ' o
CHAPTER XXIV. 275
hazard should be a ground of conviction, an argument
of truth ?
Secondly, when we reﬂect on the mutual proscrip
tions and arbitrary intolerance of your pretensions,
we are frightened at the consequences that ﬂow from
your own principles. Nations I who reciprocally'
devote each other to the bolts of heavenly wrath, sup
pose that the universal Being, whom you revere,
should this moment descend from heaven on this
multitude ; and, clothed with all his power, should sit
on this throne to judge you : suppose that he should
say to you : Mortals ! it is your own justice that I
am going to exercise upon you. Yes, of all the re
ligious systems that divide you, one alone shall this
day be preferred ; all the others, all this multitude of
standards, of nations, of prophets, shall be cond_e_mn
ed to eternal destruction : this is not enough ;
among the particular sects of the chosen system,
one only can be favoured; all the others must be
oondemned : neither is this enough :'—from this lit
tle remnant of a group _I must exclude all those who
have not fulﬁlled the conditions enjoined by its pre
oepts. 0 men! to what a small number of elect
have you limited your race! to what a penury of
beneﬁcence do you reduce theimmensity of my good
ness! to what a solitude of beholders do you con
demn my greatness and my glory !”
But, said the Lawgiver; rising: no matter I you
have willed it so. Nations! here is an urn, in which
all your names are placed ;_0a@ only is a prize : ap
proach, and draw this tremendous lottery ! The na
tions, seized with terror, cried“ ./V0 .’ we are all bro
~zIm'e,all equal ,' we cannot coitdeii1n.eacli otherfi
’ .
"I'all
3'75 ' * CHAPTER XXIV.
“ Then, said the Lawgiver, resuming his seat :
men ! who dispute on so many subjects, lend an at
tentive ear to one problem which you exhibit, and i
which you ought to decide yourselves.” And the
people giving great attention, he lifted an arm to- i
wards heaven '; and, pointing to the sun, said : “ Na
tions, does that sun which enlightens you appeal:
square, or triangular? -/V0, answered they with one
voice, it is round.
Then, taking the golden balance that was on the
altar: this gold, said the Lawgiver, that you handle
every day, is it heavier than the same volume ofcop
per ? Yes, answered all the people, gold is heavier:
than copper.
Then taking the sword, is this iron, said the Lat)?
giver, softer than lead ? No, said the people.
Is sugar sweet, and gall bitter ? Yes.
Do you love pleasure, and hate pain ? Yes. Thus
then you are agreed in these points, and many others
of the same nature. -
Now, tell us, is there a cavern in the centre of the
earth, or inhabitants in the moon _?
This question raised a universal buz; every one
answered differently, some yes, others no ,' one said
it was probable, another said it was an idle and ridi
culous question, some that it was worth knowing 5'
and the discord was universal.
__ After some time, the Lawgiver, having obtained
§1l¢I1¢¢, said; Explain to us, 0 nations! this prohf
I’ V
CHAPTER xxw. aw’
hm : we have put to you several questions which
you have answered with one voice, without distinc
tion of race or of sect : white men, black men,follow'- '
ers of Mahometand of Moses, worshippers of Beddou
and of Jesus, all have rendered the same answer.
\Ve then proposed you another question, and you
have all disagreed ! why this unanimity in one case;
and this discordance in the other ?
And the group of simple men and savages answer
ed and said: The reason of this is plain : in the ﬁrst~
case we see and feel the objects ; and we speak from
sensations. ; in the second, they are beyond the reach
of our senses ; we speak of them only from conjeq
ture.
You have resolved the problem, said the Law
giver; and your own consent has established this
ﬁrst truth :
That to/ieruver objects can be examined andjudgcd
of by your senses, you are agreed in 0]ii1u’5ﬁ',' and
that you only diﬂer when the objects are absent and
beyond your reach.
From this ﬁrst truth ﬂows another equally clear
and worthy of notice: since you agree on things
which you know with certainty, it follows, that you
disagree only on those Which you know not with cer
lainly, and about which you are not sure; that is to
say, you disflute, you quarrel, you_ﬁg/mfor that which
is uncertain, that Q/.which you doubt. 0 men! is
this wisdom ?
Is it not then demonstrated that truth is not the
object ofyour contests ? that itis not her cause whigh_
278 CHAPTER XXIV.
you defend, but that of your affections, and of your
prejudices 2 that it is not the object, as it really is in
itself, that you would verify, but the object as you
Would have it ; that is to say, it is not the evidence
of the thing that you would cause to prevail, but your
own personal opinion, your particular manner of
seein;,r and judging ? It is a power that you Wish to
exercise, an interest that you wish to satisfy, a prero
gative that you arrogate to yourself; it is a contest
of'vaniiy. Now, as each one ofyou, on comparing
himself to every other, ﬁnds himself his equal and
his fellow, he resists by a feeling ofthe same right.
And your disputes, your combats, your intolerance,
are the eFl'ect of this right which you deny each other,
and of the intimate conviction of your equality.
Now, the only means of establishing harmony is
to return to nature, and to take for a guide and regu
lator the order of things which she has founded;
and than your accord will prove this other truth :
_. That real beings have in themselves an identical,
constant and unz"/.arm mode of existence; and that
there is in your organs a like m'odc Qf being afccted
by them. .
But at the same time, by reason of the mobility of
these organs as subject togyour \vill,you may conceive
different affections, and ﬁnd yourselves in different
relations with the same objects; so that you are to
them like a mirror, capable of reﬂecting them truly
as they are, or of distorting and disﬁguring them.
Q!
Hence it follows, that whenever you perceive ob
jects as they are, you agree among yourselves and
CHAPTER XXIV'. _ an
with the objects; and this similitude between your
se'nsations and their manner of existence, is what
constitutes theirtruth with respect to you ; and onthe
contrary, whenever you differ in opinion,'your disa
greement is a proof that you do not represent them
such as they are—that you change them. '
Hence also it follows, that the causes of your disa
greement exist not in the objects themselves, but in
your minds, in your manner of perceiving or
judging.. '
T0 establish therefore an uniformity of opinion, it
is necessary ﬁrst to establish the certainty, com
pletely veriﬁed, that the portraits which the mind
forms are perfectly like the originals ; that it reﬂects
the objects correctly as they exist. Now, this result
cannot be obtained but in those cases where the ob
jects can be brought to the test, and submitted to
the examination of the senses. Every thing which
cannot be brought to this trial, is, for that reason
alonedmpossible to be determined ; there exists no
rule, no term of compari‘son, no means of certainty,
respecting it.
From this we conclude, that, to live in harmony
and peace, we must agree never to decide on such
objects, and to attach to them no importance ; in a.
word, we must trace a line of distinction between
those that are capable of veriﬁcation, and those that
are not; and separate by an inviolable barrier the
world of i';mtasticalbeings fiom the world of reali
ties ; that is to say, all civil effect must be taken agvay
from theological and religious opinions. /
GHAPTER XXIV.
1-F
This 0 yqpeople of the earth ! is the object pro
posed by a great nation, freed from her ietters and
her prejudices ; this is the work which, under her
eye and by her orders, we had undertaken, when’your
kings and your priests came to interrupt it. 0 kings
and priests I you may suspend, yet for a while, the
solemn publication of the laws of nature ; but it is no
longer in your power to annihilate or to subvert them.
‘ A generai shout then arose from every part of
the assembly; and the nations universally, and with
one voice, testiﬁed their assent to the proposals of
the delegates: Resume, said they, your holy and sub-_
lime labours, and bring them to perfection. inves
tigate the laws which nature, for our guidance, has
implanted in ourbreasts, and collect from them an
authentic and immutable code; nor let this code be
any longer for one family only, but for us all without
exception. Be the legislators of the whole human
race, as you are the interpreters of nature herself;
show us the line of partition between the world of
chimeras and that of realities; and teach us, after
so n1'any religions of error and delusion, the religion
of evidence and truth. '
Then the delegates, having resumed their enqui
_ries into the physical and constituent attributes of
man, and examined the motives and affections which
govern him in his individual and social state. unfold
ed in these words the laws on which nature herself
'has founded his happiness.
?
~
THE END»
