{"name":"Remarkable Life Of Joanna Southcott","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1812__hann___remarkable_life_of_joanna_southcott.pdf","mytitle":"Remarkable Life Of Joanna Southcott","mylang":"de"}
THE *
r *
r * rt
»
J!M
J.. 1
REMARKABLE LIFE,
C n te r ta in in e $>isstarp
• tK G c r - : e .T r ; : i r
SURPRISING ADVENTURES
w .i\ u v»u\ V'6* ,
JOANNA SOUTHCOTT,
r
,?rr'rr*’ c' /
a <
?cr #
f *•
w i j j i /i. i . <». i
T H E P R O P H E T E S S ,
G IV IN G A N A C C O U N T OF
T H E F A M I L I A R S P I R I T
itn.v? ..4 a t- * v -• *
T H A T A T TE N D S A N D D IRECTS H E R ;
e ^ o ii a ii ;>
A L S O ,
1 -./.; AL
>
A
yfw Account of ticj Seal, the Manner of Sealing the
^ 7r *
j ■'J\ J i, w
v * v/ tA J... .. j®
People, crwa the Manner oj Receiving Lommuru-
cationsfttiMihe Spirit, S^
c. fyc. fyc.
AV.V.YV A V ■' V <
■ '
-•••" !- : r/ B y R . H A N N . ‘
1' . .7 iv
*
./
.:i ,
If -:J
And Sold by the Author# at his House, No. 5, ShortH
.. . •; t . \)
j . ., r . Gardens, Drury Lane.— Price Eight-pence. t •
. _
i(
‘ • t
, . .
‘.'(I
“
t. ,J... J*>
.i
*'J" , ©
nttW
Dat ^btatfonew’ tyall.
Printed by IF.SMITH and Co. 6, KingStreet, SevenDials
D|Jtized by Google
J
’iiiT
' t
A L E T T E R
:: i U 'i :) 7lUk..\u'ri7l n J
THE BISHOE OF LONDON
The H
eresy4ndIm
posture
J . y j t
JOANNA, THE PROPHETESS.
, .. A U Y
y ; ;T : 7 7 ] v / r
.f r , ,
Lately Published, Price Sixpence*
r ' . s
- j ■ j . . nr, v ra t : -t r
C H A R G E S
<
n>--
AGAINST
■ -
v T t i E T W i t V E* (J t s , ;•'
-W. ... • >
\ *VUttVO; \
>
V
\
\ >
:U
\» t\v
, , , . V
.........
JOANNA SQUZHCOXZ’s TRIAL,
In which tbf€ relScl^r will find *that flfis Trial was
marked with the most wild and maniacal Perform­
ances, that ever entered the-brain of a Bedlamite,
such as Casting the, Devi!, Freeing the Female Part
of Mankind fVom the Fall, Demanding or Claiming
of God the Fulfilment of a Promise, that He is said
to have given to Man near Six Thousand Years since,
but never fulfilled till thus claimed by Joanna and
her Friend*. ~ ^
Y Digitized by C i O O Q l e
THE
LIFE AND ADVENTURES
QF
JOANNA SOUTHGOTT.
• J o a n n a SOUTHCOTT was bom at Gitsham,
a small town in Devonshire, in the year 1753; her
father was in the farming line, and his religion was
that of the established church. We do not find
that Joanna’s juvenile days* were marked witty’any
very singular events. Indeed, we have in one of
her publications (called ** What manner of commu­
nications are these,”) a large account of her love
affairs, particularly her correspondence with Noah
Bishop, one of her chief admirers, blit I sCe nothing l
in*it deserving notice, unless it be the eccentricity :
of her disposition, manifested in her conduct to­
wards her paramour. This, it must be owned,
was somewhat singular, for though they had a
mutual affection for each othet, phe always rejected
his offers. ' '' * \
Digitized by Google
The short narrative in one of her books, that stie
calls her history, is hardly worth reciting, being only
what she calls herself “ The history of her Lovers;”
though (strange to tell), she says, she was ordered
to write it! According to Joanna's own account,
(of the- tAitb lofwhidi .1 have no doubt,) at a very
early period, her mind was susceptible of religious
impressions, and was much influenced by the
Truths of the Gospel* This is her own account :
4
<From my early age, the' fear of the Lord was
41 deeply placed on my mind and heart. Reading
4
€ lire Gospel of Christ and all the persecution he
4
<went through, made me love him, and fear to
4(ofifend him: and I felt my heart burn with'indig-
“ nation against his accusers; and that as 1 grew in
4t years 1 grew in grace, and in the fear of the
4i Lord.” Under these impressions, we may natu­
rally suppose, that Joanna exercised herself very
much in reading the Bible; and the more so, as her
mind was not diverted from it by other pursuits;
for it isevidfnt? that she received but a very illi­
beral education. Thus given up to the reading and
study of the Scripture, she of course, tacauap very
conversant with the Bible,, and retained a gr?at deal
o f it in her memory. This was a good beginning,
anid when I compare such a beginning with the
presept state of her religious pursuits, and the his­
tory thereof, since her religious plirepsy topk pos­
sesion* of her ,n?ind, it fills me with surprise, with
pity, withVdign,ajtK)nAaud with horror. To Joann^
may fi^ly b$ applied, St. Paul’s address to the G e­
lations . “ Tf did ru/t well ; wfio did kinder yquLtljtat
ye &kpuld)not obey the Trytfy. It was in the year
that Joanna first gave Iteiself up to the spirijt
ofylelusion, when she openytj her commission ;jder
dared herseh*visited by an invisible spirit, whichshf
called “ the Spirit of Prophecy,” aha that her Mis­
sion (which was from the Lord,) was to declare to
Digitized by Google
*5
tfib world thai near approach of the MrllbnniiW*, antf
other extraordinarythings. This pretended Mic­
tion, I have already proved to be a delusion by my
Friendly Address 4o.her Followers, and my Anui-
madverskms on hen Prophecies. To twice this de-
losioa tQ its soovce, 3 -refer the readdr to two places
in Joanna’s writings, Strange Bfteets.of Faith, page
195 and 203> In thel94thaud 195th pages, Joanna
, refates a story concerning her undle, who was a
very pibus young man, atid seemed much fitter ftfjr
another world than for this. This young man went
to sea, and when he was going, felt his mind much
.impressed with ah idea* that he should hever re-
Aum agaio to hit friend* ;.and under that impression
Sook his leave.1 , - t
In his abdsenefe, his mother was troubled in heh
dreams for him* and thought she should see him
no more. The yomg. man was lost in bis passage
tome, the vessel going to the bottom* and all on
oard perished eicept one. The inference that
Joadto drew; fiom this circumstance was* that “ the
€
t Lord was round our beds, and in our paths, the
** samC ndwas he was in ages past, to*day, yesterday,
f* and for ever the iame.” She also informs us that
.other singular circumstances had happened in the
/amity* which made her: believe in her early age>
Ithat the Lord spake by dreaml and visions of the
r^-ight, and that the angels of the Lord are minister­
ing spirits, to.administer tb the heirs of salvation.
Thus far perhapsthere wasnothing very reprehensible.
But here begins the dreadftil delufciori, page 195,
line 15 : u biit wow.it I£€*plavnei>to me, that
those things which hawh&ppened in pur family;
A* frtere' t&sign'ed as a warning to the natibns, that
f€the end; 6f all-things were at hand.” This I am
.not afraid to call a most infernal lie ; add if any
*pfrit so explained it, I heshate not to Say it was th*
dev(lp- Tims the delusidn began with dreams and
B 2
Digitized by Google
vitioas,and by dreams and visions it is supported tfo
this day. W hen I went to one of Joanna's Preachers
to inquire into the grounds of his belief in Joanna's
JMission, be told me, that what his wife had seem
and heard, supported his faith as much as any
thing: and Mr. Tezer makes it no secret;, that the
visions he has seen arid what he has heard both
sleeping and wakings is to him the greatest con­
firmation, that Joanna's visitation is of God. And
you will talk to few of the sealed people, but what
-will inform youof itheir own dreatns and visions.
I would hot' say, that God never speaks to any
person by dreams and visions, but this i will say,-
if those dreams and visions set forth any other
Gospel than the Gospel of Jesus Christ, they are
hot of God, but from the devil.’ And I will further
affirm, that whatever visions and dreams support*
Joanna’s Mission, are not from God, because the
doctrines that Joanna holds forth, are diametrically
opposite to the doctrines of the Gospel: it i^ impose
sible, therefore, that they can both proceed from
God. *
But I will moreover assert, that to be led by
dreams or visions, or any other thing but the written
word of God, is hazardous and very dangerous; y£»,
SI had almost said, to follow any other guide than
the Scriptures must end in certain ruin. *I would
ask any of the sealed, whether I am safe in follow*
ing the word of God? I think none are so hardy as
to say l am not. Then this is the natural inference,
if it is safe to follow the Word, it is not safe to
be led by dreams or visions, and those who arfe
weak enough to be led by them, pays too little at­
tention to our Saviour's command : “ Take heedthtit
ye be not deceived." The Word of God is the only
true Light: and who ever follows any other Light,
whether it be dreams or visions, or Richard Bro­
thers, or Joanna Southcott, or whatever it may be.
Digitized by Google
in ^ \vub ^rHct pr<)|)riety be fc$id feJeave'thebigb^
oft Ufe> ’ancl walk; u\ davkn£Ss[;-^may be; said, to:
leave the fountain of living watere, and hqe ou| -
to themselves broken cisterns *that can bold no*
water> But to return, Joanna,^before, observed,,
opened herioonamissioi? in 1793, and declared her-
^djf.to be the, Woman) spoken pf ip tire Revelations*,
that is, “ the Bride, the EamW/wife* and the Wo-j
man cloathed with the Sun.” Het prophetic spirit
®ow .disturbed her night and day* This was at?
Exeter, her friends thought she was going out of
her.miiid; he/profession made no small noise in*
the city* the pepple in! general were against her,
alnd >she was touch persecuted. Site wrote to the
Dighithries of the Cathedral concerning her Mis­
sion, but they, would: have nothing to say to her.
Several particular circumstances marked her life
from 1792 to 1801, but the dates of those circum­
stances seem to he no where recorded. ?
- in this lapse of time, Joanna made, several efforts:
to get her Mission sanctioned by respectable, cha­
racters, but without Success. In the 9th page of the
Strange Effects of Faith, we read of six men, tjhat*
Joanna was to have together to try their judgment,
four of whorl* refused to attend, judging herVisita-?
lion to be from the Bevilror jurying her to be both,
a knave amd a fool: solshe had; other four in their
*ootn> hotfcontinues Joartnav “ Twas told before L
met'them, that theirjudgment woukfnot be right.’*
1 wish to inform*'Joafnna, that I have seen a well*
attested account of this circumstance, and such a
one as is not much* to her credit.
The Rev. Mr. Ponieroy was likewise applied to*
who looking. upbn her as going out of her mind*
yielded a little1
to her nonsense *
y thinking, that, a
liiore likely way to reclaim her, than by opposing
het entirely; but neither could he be prevailed on
tb sanction her Mission* la 1801, Joanna printed
, B S
Digitized by Google
the five first parts of -her first book, called “ The
Strange Effects of Faith/- this brought down to
Exeter in the Christmas of that year, five gentle-*
men, front different parts of the kingdom, to en~*
quire into the truth of her Mission. Three of those
gentlemen were clergymen ; they staid at Exeter
seven days, and then returned perfectly satisfied,
that the Visitation was of God*
On the 12tb of January, 1803, those site gentle­
men assembled with a great many more, at a house
in Paddington, in order to take the matter a second
time into consideration. This meeting (which is
called Joanna’s second Trial,) was previously, adver­
tised in the newspapers, and those that disapproved
of Joanna as a messenger from God, were desired
to attend and produce their reasons. However, it
so fell out, that no one attended but thos6 that
were believers in the Mission. This being the case^:
those that were present proceeded to carry on the
trial, though* no oppoaer were present. .Accord­
ingly* twelve were selected from the company to
act as judges, and twelve more to act as a ju ry; this
trial at best, as no opposers were present, could be.
but & farce; it lasted like the former, seven days*
Previous to the six gentlemen leaving Exeter,
Joanna’s writings, except those intended for the
press, were sealed up and delivered into the hands
of a friend ; they were at the above trial cut open,
and read : and on the second day of May following,
were ordered by the spirit (if Joanna is right,) to be
sealed up again, till they should' be demanded by
the Great Learned and Powerful; which the spirit
also told Joanna, would be the next year, when
an Awful Trial would take place, both for her and
the Sealed People, However, the next year came>
and the next year went; it both* began and ended,
but the writings were not demanded: what*the
Sealed People thinks of this, prophecy ^know not*
Digitized by Google
7
neither can I conceive how it is possible for an/
one to read this, without being convinced9 that
Joanna is an impostor: and yet her followers can-
read this and a great deal more of the same sort,
and still remain immoveably fixed in the Faith of
her Mission. If the render should wish to be ascer­
tained of:.the prophecy, he will find it declared if*
Foley's epistle to the Vice Chancellor of Oxford
and. Cambridge, page 15.
I wish the reader not to forget the promise that
this Spirit of Prophecy made Joanna in the 27th page
of “ the Strange Effects of Faith," viz. thou shalfc
prophesy in my name; and I will bear the witness*
“ What I put into thy mouth that will I do on the
earth." In the same page, the Spirit is represented*
as asking Joanna, if she believed him • her answer
is this: i€Yea, Lord, if it be thy voice, I do believe
“ .it; for I know thou art not a man to lie, nor the
“ sort*of man to be w.avering : I have always found
Thee a God like thyself, faithful to thy word,
4
Sand faithful to tby promises."
Bat I should be .glad to know what Joanna
thought .of him now, whey he was not faithful ta
his promise ; for I am thoroughly convinced, that
whoever believes the Spirit of God, was the author
of the'above prophecy, is in the sight of God,
guilty of blasphemy. For. whatever spirit it was,
he was evidently a liar, and the truth was not in
him. Neither was this the only lie. that proceeded
from him, by some hundreds, even as recorded by
that impostor's own pen.
: The reader will pardon me for saying so much on
the total failure of this and many other prophecies;
for, if he is a rational man, lie must feel himself
irritated at such barefaced imposture. But we
shall now proceed, the writings were not demanded
that year by the “ Great, the Learned, and Pow-<
crful," neither hate.they to this d ayH ow ever, iu
Digitized by Google
9
the December of that yealr, another 1meeting warn
convened, being previously advertised like the>
other, and every inethbd taken to. excite those;wtuf>
are against the cause to attend the meeting! yefy
([as if the hand of Providence was in it,}: their en­
deavours proved entirely abortive : riot a soul came1
but the friends to the bause* Those flocked a»
doves to . the windows, and though nothing'could
take place like a trial, as none but believers were
present, yet it was called Joanna’s Third Trial,
Now these three trials uniting their force, and t
acting together, constitute one grand instrument o f
allurement, that is used with great sooeess in gain*
ing proselytes; for when the credulous and unwary
are told, that Joanna, ^and her writings havd stood
the test of three different trials, and close investiga*
tion by men of great abilities, and jealous of being
deceived; and even several of them clergymen!
who would not conclude that it must he right ? • ‘'
There is one thing .more that must be noticed
appertaining to the above ptophieorek: ihe readef
wilt recollect, that on the ^d of May, 18iQ
3>that
Joanna was ordered to seal up,all her writings again
With proper witnesses ; and to place them in the
bands of a fi iend> till they were demanded by the
Great, Learned and Powerful. But boiV was thie
command attended to?. The writings'have nevep
been so demanded yet ; and y*trthey were broke
open at the*trial by Joanna’s orders, contrary to the*
express command of the Spirit. This is pne«grand
argument with me, that Joanna’s visiting spirit is
notlimg* but her own will; and judgment; or ihe
Devil operating therein.. W e read in' the.Revela*
tions j “ The Marriage of thbLumb is aum, and, his*
uife hath made herselp nady*” Joanna says, that is
fulfilled in her :>thwt she is the Laoib’S'Wife^and rea*
dinoss is her perfect obedience ;* if so, I think, the
above act of Disobedience tnust be a yeryjaia^eriat
Digitized by Google
9
defect in that readiness. I should riot wonder if
it wa9 to bring about a divorce ; for if Joanna is to
be believed, her visiting spirit, which is her hus­
band, is a very hard master, and exceedingly se­
vere ; I will give you a proof: Joanna and Miss
.Townly are (according to Joanna) the Bridegroom’s
‘greatest favourites, Joanna was singly so : but it
seems Miss T. rose to that state by merit (viz.) by
Spending her fortune in supporting of Joanna and
her Mission. Now, although, these two ladies ate
one, his loving bride, the other his bride’s compa­
nion, yet, hear, and mark his severity!
Dear Miss Townly, July 10, 1810*
“ :What new wonders are daily presented before
(( my vipws; I dare not suffer myself to indulge a
4
€thought of them, if I did, I could not write or
u keep my senses ; but if W e go'one step from the
“ directions the Lord hath given M e, we are lost
u in time and to all eternity.”—;
— -This is taken from
the .book, called iC What manner of Communica­
tions are these,” and L assure the reader, the tithe
ia Well adapted. But what 1 wish the reader to
notice, is trie severity of Joanna’s husband y but I
.see a few' words a little below in the same first page,
that;also demands our attention: it it this, “ I would
sopner go to the flames as a martyr, than go one
ftep from the direction the Lord hath given me
concerning the trial.” And yet, Contrary to the
'express command of the Spirit, she broke the seals,
apd opened the writings. These things appear to
me not exactly right. <
• .
, Joanna has visited in her missionary capacity,
.different places in England; Bristol, Leeds, Old
Swinford, 8cc. where she has met with ample proof,
.that mental weakness,is not a disorder peculiar to
the inhabitants of London. When Joanna was at
Stpckpprtj she wfts told by the Spirit, that he sent
,y
Digitized by Google
her there to be elenr from the blood'of all me#;
that they might know the day of their visitation*
but how her going to Stockport, could clear her
from the blood of all men, 1 do net,understand*
The expression implies, first, that eternal life is
entirely dependent on a Belief in her Mission,
second, that she is accountable for the blood of all
men : if so, her preaching her Gospel to the people
of Stockport* could not clear her from the blood of
all men.
At Old Swinford, Joanna has many adherents*
for which she is indebted to a reverend champion in
her cause. At Leeds, her followers are very nu­
merous, owing perhaps to a 'brother pfbphet B&ng
there, one Mr. Turtier, who is visited like Jdanna*
by a familiar spirit* He had mkoy extraordinary
visions like JoannsL His visions sanctions and coV-
roborates Joanna’s ; for the Bpirit of this prophet is
subject to the spirit of the prophetess ; and I woulft
advise that prophet to continue so, lest he shares
the fate of Brothers, Dowlahd and Prescot. For f
am very.sure, Joanna will kuow no prophet any
longer than they are in subordination) tp her spirit*1
Mr. Turners spiritand mission is also prophetic*,
like Joaima’s; and his prophecies arev/a little v^-
markable for beginning with Jonah’stdhrm to thh
people of Nineveh: “■ Yetr forty days*’ :
one of ¥ho$fe'
prophecies came oul as late as 1809> *tfth a Itut*
forty days and dome very extraordinary 'thing
was to happen in that time; but what, was not to be
known till fulfilledr
: and I believe it is not, known
yet, though more than twice forty days has elapsed*.
Joanna has for some years been stationary ii>
London, living with an amiable lady, wHb (much
to her praise) disposes of her income, in What she
esteems the service of God, but who, at the 9&fnie
time, has the misfortune With' many Others, 16 'ife
duped by art artful impostor. I believe she will*
Digitized by Google
U#th many others, very soon discover the cheat*
Joanna’s cause in London, has hitherto been m a
flourishing state/ but I believe its tide is at the
turn. She has a chapel in Duke Street, near the
Obelisk, where they have preaching every Sunday,
and where the Liturgy of the Church of England is
also read. The service of the chapel is performed
by M*f Tozer. They have a choir of singers, and
the hymns they sing, were composed from the
writings of their patroness. They administer in their
chipet the Sacrament of the Lord’s Supper, the first
Spntlay in every mopth, and profess themselves
members of the Church of England, though the
followers of Joanpa .do not consider that these are
contrary the one to the other.
Joanna never appears in public, but lives very
private in ia secret chamber, where she pretends
Christ takes up his abode with her, but we are
commanded, Mat. xxiv. 26, to believe it not. She
pretends that her Mission is in every respect like
the Scripture; but I am* sure it is not in this, for
neither Christ nor his apostles secluded themselves
frbm the world, they feared not those that could
omykill the;body ; and Joanna living so private, i9
to me, !
af striking proof, that her cause, is not of
God. tl The wickedjteeth when no man pursueth ;
but the righteous are as bold as a lion” Joanna’s
condnet giVe^ her profession the lie; she professes
to he double guarded by an Almighty Power, and .
tafyaV# a Wpmise that no one shall hurt her; and
ye£ afraid tnaj; evefy one that wishes to see her, is a
spy;* thtsis1a ve*y bad sign.
Having now ^iVen a short account of Joanna’s
| L * i * i?o a particular account of
her l^rs^ton and Antichristian doctrines# If you .
witt have. Joarin^s mission In the aggregate, it is
in one WordHhisj Man^
s R edem ption; tfu't if the
Digitized by Google
reader would rather have it in its divided form, it
as follows, viz.
1st. To warn the world of the near approach <s(
the Millennium* \
2nd. To seal the people for the enjoyment of the .
same, to the amount of ope hundred and forty-four
thousand, according to the scripture.
3d. To claim the promise, that is said to be gjveit
to Eve, viz. the seed of the woman should bruise
the serpent’s head.
4th. To hand the good fruit over, to man, as Eve
handed over to him the evil fruit, thereby be­
coming a second Eve, as Christ was a second
Adam.
5th. The woman and her seed, (which is said to
be Joanna and the Sealed People,) is at the com­
mencement of the Millennium, to cnain down Sa-
t^n for a thousand years.
Now these particulars put together, make up the ,
sum of Man’s Redemption; and with this, the
reader will find the tenor of Joanna’s writings to ,
correspond, that is, that Joanna is sent into the
world for Man’s Redemption : and it must be on
this account, that the angels rejoiced at her birth,0
if they did at a ll; and the Spirit told Joanna tbat j
they did : but I am inclined to think, it must be
tile Angels of the Netherlands, because to their
Master, Joanna has been of signal service; while,
instead of contributing to the advancement; of re­
ligion, she has been one of its greatest foes, by
drawing away a great number of people from the
pure Word of Goa and the simplicity of the Gospel,
to follow a cunningly devised fable! . . .
1. First then, Joanna is seilf (or rather the Spirit
is come to Joanna) to warn mankind, that the Mil­
lennium and the end of the present state of things
is ^tjhapd.. Tins, she h*s been doing since, the
Digitized by L.oooLe
13
fbmmencement of her Mission in 1792; and this
has been the tenor of her constant cry, viz. w The
u end of all things is at hand, that SatanVkingdom
“ will be destroyed, and Satan chained down for a
u thousand years, and Christ's Kingdom established
u upon the Earth, Warning to the World, page
37-” and again, page 68, ** 1 nave already told thee,
<
c and now tell thee again, the end of all things i&at
•"'hand ; by which is meant, that Satan’s Kingdom
“ is to be destroyed, and all nations will be called
IS in ; the fulfilment of the Gentile#, and the calling
“ in of the Jews.** And again, page 71, " For I
“ now tell thee all is hastening on fast; when they
r
< shall* enter into the joys of their Lord.”
Thus Joanna has faithfully executed this first
E
art of her Mission, and if her visiting Spirit had
een as faithful as she has been, we should have
had the Millennium here before this time: for his
solemn promise at her vocation was, “ What I put
** in thy mouth, that will I do on the earth.”
Strange Effects of Faith, page 27. This promise
was given in 1792; since then, Joanna has pro­
phesied of the Advent of the Millennium, and have
fixed the year when it would be; but the proph^ciei
have not been fulfilled: therefore eitherJoanna, orthe
Spirit that visits her, must be an impostor. Joanna’s
followers, notwithstanding the failure of the pro­
phecies, will not acknowledge the imposture? and
one of their arguments is, **The prophecies ale
conditional*; this is very disingenious: it is flyitig
from the conviction, and taking refuge in ignorance.
It proves the Proverbs of Solomon, ** Of pride alone
coineth contention,” and only shews that any sub­
terfuge is better than owning oneself deluded.
There is no such thing as a conditional prophecy,
it is a contradiction in term, for Was a condition to be
added to a prophecy, it would convert it into some­
thing else. For instance, was I to say Bonaparte
C
Digitized by Google
14
will be in England next year, this would be a pro-
,phecy: but if I say, Bonaparte will be in England
next year if he lives, this is no prophecy at all. . A
prophecy is inseparably connected with the unalter­
able decrees of Heaven ; and is only a prediction of
what must infallibly come to pass; and the event
must be unalterably fixed before the prophecy can
be given. Hence, that everlasting standard for
Prophecies and Prophets in Deuteronomy xviii. 22,
“ When a prophet speaketh in the Name of the Lord,
* if the thing follow not, nor come to pass, that is
“ the .thing which the Lord hath not spoken, but the
“ prophet hath spoken it presumptuously ”
Another delusive morsel administered to the peo­
ple, to feed their lethargy, is this, “ Formerly, if a
€
( prophet prophesied of evil to corne, and it did not
“ come accordingly, this was no mark of imposture;
€
t but if a prophet prophesied of good, and it did
u not came to pass, the prophet was then condemned
€
t for an impostor; and therefore, though thosejudg -
t( ments that Joanna has been prophesying of, do
“ not happen at the time given, it only shews that
“ the Lord is merciful and long suffering, and is
tc no mark of Joanna’s imposture.” This is very pa*
latable, and goes down ,very well. But let me ask
Joanna and the preachers, whether the Millennium
is a good thing or an evil ? A single thought on
this question would turn the sweet-meat into an
emetic,and make the drowsy people disgorge all the
narcoticks they had so carelessly taken. The Mil­
lennium is the grand event that the prophecies
pQint to, and whether it is a good or evil, will not
bear a question. This then being admitted, a child
will decide, whether even according to the above
criterion, Joanna is a true or false prophet.
The judgments are represented as the substance
of the prophecies, only to deceive; as they are not
the real substance but preparatory to it; and the
Digitized by Google
Millenniun taken in conjunction with the prepara-*
tive judgments, is esteemed by Joanna as a real
good ; and the avowed object of the sealed people’s
desire.; Then, why has it not taken place according
to the prophecy ? and as it has not, why is Joanna
still a true prophet ? I think both pride and pre­
judice must yield to the force of these observations.’
There is yet one thing that must not be omitted ;
the circumstance of Jonah and Nineveh affords no-
little support to this horrid delusion. Because
Jonah’s threatening was not executed on the city,
according to his preaching; therefore, the firilure'
of Joanna’s prophecies prove bet not to be a fatfce*
prophet. This argument is both fallacious and
wicked ; it manifests a disposition to delusion, even
by the dreadful means of invalidating the Scrip­
tures: a thought or two -will7prove its fallacy. When
Jonah was told to go to Nineveh, he was not sent
as a prophet, but as a preacher, to bring the people
to repentance. It is very evident, that w.hat h£
delivered, was not considered as a prophecy, neither
by the Lord* nor by himself; for he dkl not believe
it would take place. But to all questions of this
nature, the word of God furnishes a proper*answer
Jet*, xviii. 7, 8, 9* 10. “ At what instant I shall
c
<ipeak concerning a nation and concerning a kingdom
to pluck up, and to pull down, and to destroy it.
u I f that nation against whom I have pronounced*
f
u turn from their evil way, I will repent of the evil
Hthat I thought to do unto them, fyc.” •
‘But suppose it was a real prophecy, still it is 4
propheey of evil, and not of good, and therefore,
according* to their own account, the fulfilment of it
might be dispensed with, without effecting the cha*
racier of the prophet, but this cannot be the cflsfci
when the prophecy has real good for itsobjectj likfc
the prophecies of Joanna. “ It never entered irtfto
the heart of man, to conceive the glorious day*
C &
Digitized by Google
“ that are before those, that wish Christ’s Kingdom
i( to be established.” Warning to the World*
page 37.
Th^ next branch of Joapna’s Mission, is to seal
the people ; thereby to give them a right and title
to inherit the Millennium, or to reign with Christ a,
tbou^nd years on the earth. This part Joanna is
also executing, the sealing is performed in this man­
ner: half a sheet of paper is provided, and on it i*
written these words ; . . «
“ The Sealed of the Lord— the Elect, Precious,.
*5 Man’si—Jledemptiop.r—To inherit the Tree of Life
f*— To be made Heirs of God and Joint Heirs with
“ Jesus Christ* Joanna Southcott.”
Each of those seals is signed by Joanna, they are
then folded np, and thq impression of Joanna’s seal
madron the outside in wax. This done, Urey are
sent to different persons commissioned by Joanna
to dispense the same. When any person is to be.
sealed, be writes his name op a list provided fpr that
purpose: this is called signing for Satan’s destrucH
lion, as he thereby signifies his wish, that Satan
may soon be destroyed ; that is, banished from tha
earth. It has of late been required of ih? person
to be sealed, that be confess a belief in Joanna’s
Mission, but from the beginning it was not so*'
When the list is signed, the person in ofjftce, seek
up the letter, writes the person's name on it that it
is for, with the words “ not to be brokeopen,” and
then delivers it into his hand, and the person is then
sealed. The impression tliat Joanna makes on it,
is with a seal that she found in sweeping her house^ ‘
which she was about to leave in the dust, but took
it up, and threw it carelessly in the till of her box j
and when she was ordered by the Spirit,, to seal up
pepple* and haying no seal for the purpose, the
^Spirit told her in the Devonshire language, she
<woold find one in the fkivet of her box ;, so.she
Digitized by Google
n
opened the boK, And found the seal above mc»*
tioned. and on looking at it, found engraved oo it
I. C. with two stars, the e^phuiation of which, she
says, was given her by the Spirit, that is,,I. stand*
for Jesus and Joanna, the C. for Christ, and the two*,
stars, for the Morning and Evening Stars, Jesus-
being the Morning, ajnd Joanna the Evening Star, j
The origin of sealing, according to Joanna, was.,
this; being told vby the Spirit of the dreadful judg­
ments that was coming on the earth, and bein^j.
much concerned for those that must fall a, prey to
the vengeance of Heaven, she was ordered to seat
the people up, and unknowingly and unconditionally..
to seal the King and half the nation. Some time
after, site was ordered to seal up all the Jews at a*
stroke, and many persons; nay, any personshad tin-
liberty, not only to be unconditionally sealed them-t
selves, but to get their friends sealed likewise ;
for some time, there was in the sealing neither
sense nor order. And now, though time and con-
trivauce have reduced it into a little better order,;
yet it still, very well answers to the title of blas­
phemous nonsense. There is more concerning the
seal in my Friendly Address. - <
Thirdly, Joanna is sent to claim tire Promise, that
the seed of the woman should bruise the serpent'^
head.
My limits will not admit of any observations on*
this part of the Mission, though it is so big withr
absurdity, so frought with novelty* and so void of
foundation, thajt contempt can. hardly be bridled;,
another time perhaps we may give a little liberty to
the regions.
Fourthly, Joanna is sent to hand over the good,
fruit to man, as Eve gave him the evil fnjit, thereby,
becoming a second Eve, as Christ was a second
Adam. The good fruit is the merit of Joatrna’%
obedience and sufferings, and this is banded over to
C 3
Digitized by Google
IS
man, in the form, not of an apple, bat of a sealed
Letter.
Fifthly, another branch of Joanna’s Mission is,
in conjunction with her followers, to chain down
Satan. In this sacred drama, Bazil Bruce is to be
the principal actor, being the angel mentioned in
Rev. xx. 1. Now this being the top stone of the
building, we do not so much wonder, that Joanna
should say, i( It will be fatal for her and all man­
kind, if she should draw back.”
Thus Joanna is executing the various parts of her
Mission ; but it must be owned, that in so doing,
she is very unlucky; for in the first instance, in
giving warning of the near approach of the Millen­
nium, she has prophesied of it so long, so positively
fixed the time, and so often deceived the believers;
that she (with all her cunning,) is at a loss, what to
say next. u Her ait, her cunnng fails,” this will be
more clearly seen in my other publications.
Joanna is also very unlucky in sealing the people,
for although there is about twenty thousand sealed,
yet the Spirit tells her, there is not seven thousand
sealed in faith. Joanna certainly is not aware, that
this is the same as saying, two-thirds of her fol­
lowers are hypocrites ; which I think is a very great
affront. Here I must make one observation,
Joanna is told by the Spirit, that if there are seven
thousand sealed in faith, the enemy shall not enter
this l^nd. It must be observed also, that the sealing
is now closed, till the spirit shall think it proper to*
open it again. Now the people, as I have been in­
formed, nave been desired not to pray to have it;
opened ; and yet, unless it is opened, there cannot
be seven thousand sealed in faith; consequently,
an invasion is possible. This looks as if Joanna
wished to contend with Bonaparte as well as with
the Devil.
<;It is common for the sealing to close mid ope*r
Digitized by C . o o Q l e
at the Spirit’s will, as Joanna says; but I believe
her own will has the most to do with it.
Thirdly, In claiming the promises, Joanna has
been more fortunate, and the reason perhaps is, she
had many to help her: It was done at the Neck-
inger trial, where all joined in the ceremony.
There has been a shew of success in handing over
the good fruit, but it is not genuine, because the
receivers have made a bad use of it. Indeed, it is’
no wonder, that those who know nothing about it,
should not make a good use of i t ; I mean the King
and half the nation, the Jews, &c. who according to
Joanna’s writings, have all been sealed, but how
she makes it out, I know not; for they have neither
signed their names for Satan’s destruction, nor re­
ceived a seal.. However, Joanna says, they have
been sealed, and that is enough.
What success Joanna may have in the execution
of the last part of her Mission, can hardly be con­
jectured. The Devil and she, seem at present, to
be very much at variance, and there is no doubt,
that when she and her friends begin to handle him,
he will make a strong resistance ; and I much query,
whether seven thousand will be a sufficient number:
it seems very alarming, that the sealing do not
open, that the number may be increased.
It is a little extraordinary, that although this
chaining down Satan, is almost the burden of
Joanna’s writings; yet, we find nothing of it in the
bible, till we come to the twentieth chapter of Re­
velations? and yet Joanna would have us believe*
that her calling is like the Scripture.
I shall next give the'reader an account of the
Spirit by whicn Joanna is directed: and thisis
not a very easy task, because we have no ac­
count of him, but what conies from Joanna’s own
mouth, or pen; and that account is very confused;
Which will appear by and by.
Iff
jr
Digitized by L , o o Q l e
8a
T h isSpirit personates at different times, the dif*
ferent Persons in the Sacred Trinity : sometimes, lie
is the Father, sometimes the Son, and sometimes
the Holy Ghost* and sometimes all three together.
The appellation, by which he seems fond of dis^
tinguishing himself, is The King of Kings and
Lord of Lords. Thus in page 20 of the Strange
Effects of Faith, he saith : u All that thou hast done,
u and all the letters thou bast sent, have proceeded
“ from me, the King of Kings, and Lord of Lords,
44 the Everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace, the
4i Mighty Counsellor, and the Desire of every
44 Nation.”
In the 35th page of the same book, he personates
the Father, and speaks to Joanna of his Son, thus:
“ As thy spirit was enraged and provoked with the
44 blasphemy of Satan, so is my Spirit provoked as
“ blasphemy of the nation; and as thy brother
“ tried to hold thy hand from going out of the
C
( house, and pitied thy weakness; so have My Son
“ tried to withhold my hand, and pitied the weak*
“ ness of his people.” Here the Spirit is intended
to represent God the Father; but in general, the
Spirit is intended to be Christ: so in page 29 of the
Same book, the Spirit is Christ, come a second time
to judge the world, and call the Jews* In the
caution to the sealed, he is both Christ and the Holy
Ghost in the same page. I am constrained to say*
this is too ranch confusion to come from a God of
Order. But to proceed, Joanna is not very parti*
cuiar as to which of the sacred Three, tire Spirit
represents. He represents each, or either, or all*
as best suits her purpose, without being any ways
nice as to confmttoding the pirsarn; but this one
thing she contends for, viz. that it is the Spirit of
God. It cannot, be denied, but that Joanna’*
count of this Spirit, is very contradictory,, the (is
very confident, that it is die Spirit of God; and .yiei
Digitized by Google
she U very much afraid it is not Joanna is sore it
is the Spirit of God, because of the profound wis­
dom displayed in her writings; she is certain, that
such writings could be dictated by no other than
the Spirit of God.
But then, says the inquisitive reader, why is she
afraid it ia not the Spirit of God ? Why, I will tell
you, he has deceived Iter, and she. thinks.that God
can deceive no man. The Spirit promised her at
her first setting out, that she should prophesy in his
name; and whatsoever he should put in her mouth,
that he. would do pn the earth: now he pat it
into her mouth, U
>-say her father would die at such
^ time, which time he outlived : at.which Joanna’s
confidence was much shaken: and as she bad pro*
phesicd that he would die at such a time, she was
very much confused. Neither was this all; for ac*.
cording to Mrs, Taylor's deposition at the trial, she;
prophesied of other things, that did not come to pass*
when the time was expired. .
. From what has been said, the reader will be ready *
tasuy, “ this Spirit is both a false prophet and a*
false Christ# Let the reader .enjoy his opinion :,
my business i9 togive a true statement of facts, and/
therefore, what {.find recorded in Joanoa’9 writing*,
relative to the Spirit, I think, as a faithful historian
and biographer, I ought to transcribe. X cannot
then consistently omit giving a further account of
thi? Spirit, as it is recorded in Joanna's writings, *
which I.must own for its novelty and curiosity de*.
serve to be taken notice of; and l wdl take upon
me to say, that what I am about to relate, is the
greatest novelty and curiosity that was ever recorded
in history : and was my historical account of.it an
original, I should think it no presumption to claim
the laurel, but as the account i9 borrowed from
Joanna’s writings, l wish not to deprive her of being
its author*
. Digitized by Google
I shall intrude on the reader’s patience but very
little longer. What is meant by our Lord’s second
Advent is wdl known, viz. his coining into this'
world a second time, and his business is to judge
the quick and the dead. Now, according to Joanna,
the second Advent has taken place; for in page 29,
above mentioned, Joanna invokes the Spirit (or:
Christ) to know if this be bis second or last coming,,
tojudgd the toorid in righteousness, and she was*
answered in the affirmative: but B e as’Ton ished O*
H eaven I ! He is come in the form of a W oman !!!
If the reader require a proof, I refer him to almost
every page in the book, called, “ What Manner of
Communications are these,” and fivehUndred placet
besides in Joanna’s writings. But it will be .asked,'
“ How can he be in the form of a woman, and not
be a woman ?” That is a reasonable question ; a
person cannot be in the form of a woman without'
being a woman; neither does Joanna want to be*
understood so : for in the 21st page of a Comma*
nieation given in answer to Mr. Brothers’s last book,
the Spirit expressly declares, that he is a Woman,1
in these words: “ A Woman here I am made.” *
This is plain language, and Hdmits of no dispute.
Jesus Christ, Joanna affirms, is made a woman ! ;
The Man Christ Jesus is made the,Woman Christ
Jesus. The Son of Man is made the daughter of
Man. The Son of God is made the Daughter of
God. If the reader bas not known this before, I
am sure he taustbe astonished. I grant, it is sup-'
prising, hbW sdch a thing could enter a person’s
head ; but it frightens one to think, how any one
of common sense could ever send such a thing to
the press. It will naturally be asked,: whatever
could induce the woman to promulgate so strange
a doctrine ? Such a question I have revolved in my
mind, and therefore have sought an answer: and-
what I have found, I will freely communicate. It
Digitized by Google
is well known, that since the days of our Saviour,
there have been many false prophets, and it must
.be concluded, that the profession of being a pro­
phet, in those false'prophets, have always proceeded
from a desire of being thought a true one. It is ob­
servable also, that wherever such a desire have been
, prevalent, there has also been a desire and profes­
sion of being the Messiah, which profession has
been built upon the general expectation among the
Jews, of a Messiah, to gather them together at Je­
rusalem : and amongst the Christians, a partial ex­
pectation of Christ’s second Advent to introduce,
the Millennium. Now, as we have had false pro­
phets, so we have had false prophetesses, and as the
desire of joining the Messiah with the prophetic,
have raged in men false prophets, why not also in
women false prophets ? It doubtless has existed
the same in the one as in the other; and the rea­
son why such a profession has never been made
bv women, is because they have not been ventrous
enough, to pretend to a thing in which they could
not expect the least degree of success. Again, it
is more than tnanifest, that Joanna is a false pro­
phet, from the many miscarriages of her prophecies:
then why should not Joanna possess a desire of
joining the two offices together in common with
other false prophets ? no reason can be given why
she should not; and therefore, it is presumed, that
; she did profess it; because no other motive can be
discovered by the most diligent search, that she
could have for pretending, that the Spirit said he
was come in the woman’s form ; and that he was
made a Woman.
I advise the reader to peruse a little book of
Joanna’s, called “ A Communication on the last book
of Mr. Brothers;” out of which I have taken the
above expression, €
t A woman here I am made.”
By this book it is evident, that Joanna looked oti
Digitized by Google
, Brothers as her rival, and as Brothers pretended to
have the Spirit of Christ, and to be the man ap­
pointed of God, to conduct the Jews to Jerusalem,
and there to concentrate the scattered Israelites:
Joanna (finding her profession in datoger) entered
the field against him, and pretended, that the Spirit
(or Christ) within her, contended, that the man's
form was not fit for his second Advent, page 20.
“ But how can man eo simple come
•• To think that in his form
“ I here should be revealed in man ?
Then the Spirit goes on, to show that he is not in
i l l. Brothers, for this reason, if he was to come in
the man'sform, then the man must wear his crown,
“ If unto man I now should come,
“ Then man my Crown must wear.”
• From which words, it is plain, that the Saviour's
/Cfown was the boue of contention, arid the grand
plyect of the woman's ambition. It is in the next
~page#Cop line, the Spirit says,
“ The woman here I am made.”
There is somethingof the same sort in the disputes
^between the woman and powers of darkness, page
. 1 0 Now to prevent man from robbing God of
bis honour, he hath revealed himself to a woman,”
“ To shew you plain t sons of men,
“ A man would never do 5
“ For me to cone iu his own Form
“ And bring all to your View.
“ No this is done to shew the man,
“ How 1 must first appear.
¥i And must be in the woman** form 3
To make my Gospel clear.”
Digitized by Google
From die sequel of this narrative then, it is esta­
blished, that according to Joanna, Christ is come
into the world a second time to judge the world,
and that he is come in the Form ot a WoMANA/md
is a W oman !! and the inference is plain: that
Wonsan is Joanm, and she must wear the Crown.
1 think it is impossible for any one, to charge me
here with.any unfair dealing: no, nor yet with con­
demning Joanna; for I may with propriety say to
her, as Eiiphazsaid to Job, Thy mouth uttereth
thine iniquity, and thou choosest the tongue of the
crafty. Thine own mouth condemneth thee, and not I:
yea, thinemen lips testify against thee, Job xv. 5.*6.
I observe again, it is astonishing, how any woman
could think of imposing on the credulity of man,
so gross an absurdity with the least hopes of suc­
cess : and I believe, it was not till after she had
receiyed ample proof, that some people will believe
whatever is told them, that she made the attempt.
That Joanna’s invention was put to the rack in
this daring enterprise, can hardly be doubted ; and'
perhaps this soliloquy took place in consequence*
“ Brothers claims the Messiahship, and makes peo-
“ pie believe, that Christ is come in him: this t
u cannot bear, for then he must be above me ;
f( which for me to acknowledge, would be worse
€
€ than death. What can I do ? I cannot say
“ that I am the Christ, because I am a woman, and
“ Christ is a man. 1 have but one thing to choose:
“ a metamorphose must take place, either with
u Christ or me. I must pretend, either that I am
“ changed to the form of a man, or that Christ is
u changed to the form of a woman ; now, which o f:
r( these two will be the most feasible, and least detec-
“ table ? If I say, I am made a man, the cheat will
“ soon be discovered, for if the believers do not look
“ into it, the ttHibeiieversiwill) and I shall be put to
“ confusion. I will therefore have a eommunica-
Digitized by Google
*v tion, and the Spirit shall declare. He is made &
“ woman. It is a daring attempt, to be sure, but
“ why should I be afraid ? I have repeatedly af-
“ firmed, that Christ is come in the Woman’s form,**
“ and .that is the same thing as saying Christ is
“ made a woman, and that I am Christ, only in 1
“ other words; and yet none of the believers (not
“ even the ministers) have said any thing against
“ it : and if they have, my wisdom have soon put
“ them to silence, and my eloquence have made
“ them believe it. Therefore, I will rally my spirits
“ and will not be afraid to make the Spirit to say,
“ the Wopran here I am made. They that believe
“ me, when I say I am the bride, the Lamb’s wife,
u will believe this, Those that believe me to be the
“ woman clothed with the sun will believe this. And
“ every one who believe? me when I say, I know all
“ the Lord’ssecrets, will certainly believe this.” Thus
we may reasonably suppose, Joanna communed with
herself, and so came to a resolution to utter the blas­
phemous.falsehood.
From this account of the Spirit, we may deter­
mine what he is, or rather what he is not. For it is
very difficult to say, what he is. However, this we
may affirm with respect to what he is, via. that be
is Antichrist. He calls himself Jesus, the Son of
God, and pretends to be the Messiah.. He is there­
fore Antichrist, for we are sure he is not that Christ
that was born a t.Bethlehem, because it is written,
Acts i. 1J. This same Jesus, which isiaken upfront you
into Heaven, shall so come in l ik e m a n n e r , usyehave
seen him go into. /leaven. Now it is well known,
that Chrht ascended, into Heaven as a mariV and
not as a woman, he shall therefore come again as a
roan and not as,a woman. That Christ therefore,
that is cqroe to Joanna in the woman’s form, I
declare apd is not the, Christ of God, what­
soever he .may J^e. f i
It is proper to take notice, how very contradic*
Digitized by Google
tory ^FoannaU Writings are on this head ; for al-
though he asserts, that he is made a woman, and is
come in, the woman’s form; yet Joanna speaks of
him relatively under the masculine gender all through
her writings. This blunder like many others, I itmi-
gine she was not aware of; but to ascribe such
blunders to tire Spirit of God appears to me to be
near a kin to blasphemy.
That Christ that is,come to Joanna in the woman's
form, is asserted to be the Lamb in the nineteenth
Chapter of the Revelations* and Joanna is declared
to be his wife; but if he is come as a woman, Joanna
is wife to a female, how absurd the idea ! Would
Joanna’s friends but hearken to the voice of reason,
and read Joanna’s absurd and contradictory non­
sense without prejudice or partiality, they would
look upon it in the most contemptible lign*. For
tQ go no farther than the present instance ; let any
one read the writings, and take this idea along with
them, viz. that the Spirit that is visiting and speak­
ing to Joanna, is a woman : how laughable must
it be to hear that woman or female Spirit assert,^
that she is the King of King?, and Lord of Lords;
and also !to hear. Joanna call her, her Lord
and her Saviour? But the misfortune is, though
this Spirit is: declared to! be a woman, and as
Joanna.inconsistently speaks* of him (or rather of
her) as such likewise, the reader of course, forgets
that he is reading about a woman; and therefore,,
avoids those quere disgusting feelings that would
otherwise invade him. f •
» Joanna to be consistent, ought to have related the '
Spirit by the pronoun, she and her, instead of he
and him ; and in her addresses, she should have used
the appellations, my Lady, my G oddbs9, instead,
of my L ord and my G o d : then the absurdity
would; havg, h*d its proper effect on the reader’s
mind ; aud l am inclined to think, that every reader
\ 1)2 ^
Digitized by C.ooQle
must have treated the writings with tbateoiitetttpt,
that I feel against this infernal, this diabolical Spirit.
If this is not the Spirit that inspired the four hundred
false prophets of Ahab, i Kings xxii. 31. it is one
that is a great deal worse.
Joanna pretends to be the. greatest enemy the
Devil has got: this is a bait that has caught her many
a fish, but that the Devil is at the bottom of this
pretence, I am fully convinced. It is not always
those that exclaim the most against the father of
lies* that are the greatest friends to truth. If speak­
ing against the Devil would, make a saint, Joanna
would deserve to be canonized. . . . «
f Speaking against the Devil in so direct a manner*
as Joanna does, is no doubt, an artifice peculiar to
herself. But every hypocrite who draw* near to
God with his mouth, and honours him with his
lips, while his heart is far from Him, is prtfe&sedfy
against the Devil as well as she, though he says not
quite so much about it. Joanna's speaking sb
much against the Devil, answers her a very good
,end; for she is certainly heard amongst her followers,
for her much speaking. •
I shall nor
w set forth the nbanner of Joanna'sre-
rceiving her communications frbm the Spirit;
In the early part of Joanna's mission; it was her
manner, to write her communications herself : but of
late years, she hasbeen exempt From that trouble, by
.having a secretary provided for herby her indulgent
Spirit. When the Spirit, is-about to>gvtb a5com­
munication, she feels a movement withim Then
the prophetess, the secretary, and the Witness falls
into oroery and forms a sacred'group. Then the
Spirit begins to speak, addressing himself,* 1a6t to
the witness, nor the Secmafyy/but ?
to Joanna her­
self.: 40 that, for Joanna toveceive a commtmica-
tiou, is, for Joanna, to sit down; <aitd'talk %
0 her&elf.
•Thisi she does, and secretary, another female,
Digitized by Google
writes down whatshesvya, and then the>witness, a
third female, signs it; and this is then a commuui-
, cation, and held vw>rt sacked than the Bibje.
When Joanna has thus given .to herself aqoro-
aiunication, she very often answers it in the same
way t Thus,
*iNiow Joanna, theel’ll answer, . .
MJb greeo doiHK
u Thou must suffer likejtby Master,
** For the stubborn sons of meu.;. .
Their chastisement is laid on thee;
* By thy stripes tb^y healed must be,
“ If they will be healed at all.
j
. Joanna gives out;to be written, a line, or a sen­
tence at a,time; and then;stops till it is written.
While Jopnpa is thus receiving communications
from tins female King of Kings and Lord of Lorcas,
her thoughts are apt to.wander,. she therefore; plays a
game at mjzom^e, tq confine them. I dp not know
now any one, that,has the feast reverence; for tfce
Deity that can hear of such unprecedented pre­
sumption, without; shuddering; for greater pre-
sumption there,cannot be. It is a wonder-she don’t
ask the Almigbty to take a game a]oi>g with hqr.
What account thpge,people intends to give, that aie
implicated in.thispressumptipn, by giving it a smile
of approbation instead ot\rebuke and contempt,, X
can hardly guess.,. Certain; it is, that JHe whp bq<jle
, Moses take the shoes from off hisfeet,,and struck the
man dead for touching the ark, will not be thus
insulted. I bejieyethere is scarce a man or woman
in England,;hut bos mqre reverence for every mi­
nister of the Gospel, than this presumptuous wpm^n
has for the .Almighty,; who she pretends, makes
himself as familiar with her asa bridegroom with fyis
bride. Xshall now give the reader a brief descrip*
D 3
Digitized by Google
iron of this Very singular character, both personal
~iah‘d mental.
And here it behoves me to take notice bf a figiiie
* that has been attached to the sixth edition of my
Animadversions on the Prophecies; I declare thfct
figure is not in any respect like Joanna Soufhccrft,
neither did it ever receive my approbation, but the
contrarry. JoatmaSbuthfibUy though not what is
general esteemed handsome, is:yet milch hand­
somer than that figure. ; ^ * “
It is true, I considers false prophet ofall things
under the sun, the iriost deserving universal con­
tempt ; and I believe, that in my endeavours to
bring this woman to justice, 1 render God the
highest service my condition in life will admit of.
And, though I must confess, I &m much incensed
at het presumption and blasphemy against Gocl,
and her impositions on the credulity of her fellow
creatures. Yet in opposing her, 1 would lidt, ir £
knew it, do her the least injustice, or go a hair’s
' breadth beyond the truth. 1 therefore assert, that
though Ihe is not what is generally esteemed hand­
some, yet her person and features are by no'meafas
disagreeable nor unsightly; she is rather short bf
; stature; and so are many other ladies, that nbtwfth-
ibg does even a great-deal of mischief amongst opr
‘ sfcx. Neither can it be said, that her face possesses
, a perfect symmetry (the width being a little too
*much for the length,) but a quick penetrating eyh,
that commands your attention, restrains that dis­
proportion from producing any unfavourable con­
sequences: and indeed, her loquacity jis so great,
nand her subject so peculiar, that one is not much
inclined to contemplate1the regularity of her fea­
tures; nor any thing of that nature. J
V But«now let Us attend a little to her blind. And
this is a tree that is only known by its fruit. And
wish<aiise^ in tny breast^ that I cAuld'&pdtk
Digitized by Google
of her mind and heart as of her person'; but what
has already been said, evinces that it is impossible.
First, then, her inventive faculties seems very capa­
cious, for, of her, it may (peculiarly) be said, that
however upright she was made, she has sought otit
many inventions. As to her understanding, I cannot
say I have a very good opinion of it; but lam sure,
• that either Joanna’9 or mine must be very defective.
Her scheme of Providence, and the system of
^Divinity, (a devised fable,) though in some sensfe,
cunningly devised, is nevertheless, no proof-of'a
-bright'understanding. Her imagination is a recep­
tacle for vapours; and these vapours are the fumes
arising from the action of her inventive faculties and
‘inordinate >k>ve of fame. This action seems to be*a
perpetual motion, and is doubtless the cause of all
her dreams and visious. She certainly possesses*a
great degree of assurance, otherwise she could not
*have ventured to impose on the credulity ofther
Mrtends, »a second and third time by her artifvcbs.
She has been very successful in gaining proselitos,
for which her plan is well adapted, though her'sue-
; cess arises, in a great measure, from the capricious-
ness bf .the deceived. Her plan consists of these
*<threeiparts. * » • • ■ ■ J ;
♦*FSvst, she destroys the human understanding and
the, Bible, and allows no one to know any thing* but
what the Spirit in her tells them: her followers,
therefore, gives up all knowledge, but what comes
to them by her mouth or pen.
Secondly* she contrives as well, as she can, to
m ake her artifices correspond with scripture.
•Thirdly, she piakes the Devil the author of all
evil,* and consequently makes him the object-of her
Vengeance, and also ibat of the Spirit, that directs
lief; By this well concerted plan, she has prophe­
sied* in the name of Christ, and in his name, pre­
tends to cast out the Devil, and in* bis name done
Digitized by C i o o c l e
many wonderful works, Mat. vii. 23, This cunning
devised plan ought to be called the black art, for
by it, she acts tne part of a witch, fascinates her
friends, and makes them no what she pleases, sub*
rait to what she pleases, and believe what she
pleases, and ha* done more in that way than <itnj
witch has done before her. W e are sure that her
contrivance has had this effect on her votaries; and
if we inspect into the nature of her plan,we shall see
that it is calculated to answer this end, and how
each part has operated.
1. Then she has pronounced the human under­
standing totally da*k as to the things: of God, and
the Bible to be the sealed book; and that no man can*
have any true knowledge,of these things, but what
comes to him either immediately from the Spirit, or-
immediately through her. Now whoever believes
this,and are neither |rgnorant enough to conceit, nor
wicked enough to assert, without conceiting.that
they have the inspiration of the Spirit, must submit
to her teaching. And least any man should pretend
to have the Spirit, and contradict heiy or become
her rival, she allows of no inspiration, but what
acknowledges the divinity of her mission. So long
as Mr. Brothers allowed this, he was a prophet, but
as soon as he became her rival, and pretended to
the same visitant as she did, he was discarded ; and
it was declared, that every word he spoke was from
the Devil. Moreover, the Spirit (or Christ) in the
woman, is made to declare, that he is come in the
W oman's F orm, and not in the Man's. That to
come in the man’s form would not do, for then the
man would have his crown, to 'prevent which, he*
was made a woman, and was come in the woman’s
form. It was much like this, with Joseph Prescot,
the lad that lived with Mr. Carpenter, and so it will
be with Turner, unless he continues to be on his
guard. But tb return, her declaring that the Bible
Digitized by L i o o o l e
33
is a sealed book, and the Holy Ghost is now open­
ing the seal, and revealing the whole to her, and by
her to her followers, naturally constrains them to
receive her wild and ignorant explanation 6f the
Scriptures instead of the Scripture, and this they do,
without discerning the mistake, though such a mis­
take is of all others, the most fatal. O ntbis ac­
count, it islabour lost(as I havemany times proved),
to bring her pretentions to the'law and the testi­
mony, and try them by the word of God. For
if any of her lies and absurdities do not correspond
with the Word of God, it is only because we do not
understand it, though the thing is So plain, that
a child cannot err therein. This contention, no
doubt, in many, might arise from pride; bfecausle
they will not be refuted, or acknowledge that they
‘Sure convinced ; but in others, I believe it is from a
real sacrifice of their understandings; and every
true believer submits to have his understanding so
fettered, as to Acknowledge nothing As tenth, unless
he has a Warrant for so doing, froriv his guide. If
you therefore refute this woman by the plainest
scripture, and the plainest reasons imaginable,
it avails nothing : they are proof against the most
stubborn facts, against their own cotivictiCrt, and
even against their own confession and acknowledge­
ments. For they will confess, that the Spirit
{though the Spirit of God) is very changeable, yet
deny, that such a confession makes God a change­
able being. They will acknowledge, that the pro­
phecies according to their judgment "have failed,
and they harvC been repeatedly disappointed; buft
Joanna says, it only seems so, because they draw a
wrong judgment; though the thing was so plain,
that ne who judged it, or (to use the appropriate
phrase,) drew the judgment, was liable to make the
-like mistake, in saving that two and two makes four.
*In this state of things, any appeal 16 Scripture or
Digitized by Google
34
reason is of no avail; for the Bible is a sealed book,
and the understanding is totally dark, and Joanna
alone, is the schoolmistress, to bring us to God.
But, although this woman’s opponents are not
allowed any appeal to Scripture, and reason, yet sh^
and her advocates will appeal to these whenever they
choose ; this is exceedingly inconsistent. Where
is the use of appealing to Scripture, if the Bible is
a sealed book; and where is the use of calling rea­
son to our assistance (which the Spirit and the
Bible commands us to do,) if the understanding
is totally dark ; for if that be the case, there can be
no reason, for reason is light in. the understanding.
There can be nothing therefore,, so contradictory,
than these people in their arguments, to appeal to
reason and Scripture, while they assert that the
former have no existence, and that the latter is
sealed from:all human knowledge.
2nly. She contrives to make, her artifices corres­
pond with Scripture, and asserts, that in the like­
ness thereof every .thing comes round, and she is
artful enough, to:make her followers believe it i? so.
However, this is no, peculiarity, for every, impostor
does the same,, notwithstanding those that are
unacquainted wHh the history of that tribe, and
turns a deaf ear to our Saviour’s admonitions and
commands (Beware of false prophets, wha shall
surely come, apd shall deceive many,) are caught
by this bait, and entangled in*this delusive snare.
And who cap wonder, that God (eyep God himself)
should send strong delusion tp tbfim,that receive
not the lpge of the truth, 2 Tbes. ii, 1 U , T]he friend
of sinners, haft, taken much pains, to fortify and
guard us.pgaipst false Christy and false prophets,
and Mat. xxiv. 27 points directly to this female
Christ, and false, prpphet, who; (afraid of her own
shadow,) confines herself to the'secret chamber, and
says, “ . here is Christ, verse 23.” Christ, pay.j,
Digitized by Google
believe it not; what then will those answer, that
yet believe it in spite of that command ? «
There is, I grant, one thing, in which this pre­
tended mission agrees with the Scriptures, which is
this, viz, “ It sets the father against the son, and
the son against the father; a husband against a wife,
and a wife against a husband : and a man’s foes are
those of his own household. I can rejoice in this
tribulation, when it is the effects of pure religion ;
but when it is the bitter fruits of imposture, it is
hardly bearable: however grapes from thorns, or
figs from thistles cannot be expected.
3d!y. She makes the Devil the author of all evil,
and this bait is well adapted and greedily catched
at, and produces wonderful effects. It allays the
turbulence of a guilty conscience, because he alone^
that is the author of sin, will suffer for it. But
there is a Strange contradiction to this doctrine;
for though the Devil is the sole author of sin and
evil, yet all those that will not receive this woman,
will surely be punished. This is one of those num­
berless contradictions that this woman’s writings
abound with.
In consequence of Satan being the author of all
evil, he is the object of her vengeance, and who can
eVen suspect, but this must be perfectly right. It is
therefore concluded by her friends, that her pre­
tentions and proceedings cannot he the works of the
Devil, for then Satan must be divided against him­
self. Howr then could his kingdom stand ? But
these people must be informed, that Satan in the
heart, and Satan in the mouth, differs as much as.
God in the heart and God in the mouth.' And that
either God or the Devil may be very much in the
mouth, while the heart is far from him. And .far­
ther, though Satan m the mouth of this woman,
the author of till evil, and the avowed object of her.
rengettiice; !yet the Devil ih the heart, may be the
Digitized by Google
author of all this fyypoqrisy. And though he is
also the pretended object of the Spirit’s vengeance ;
yet this- may be without Satan’s being divided
against himself, at the hazard of his kingdom^ as it
may be a lie. However, as has beenobserved> it
turns to her account; for as.sheisso much the Devil’s
ehemy, sire must be (according to some people’s
reason,) a staunch friend to God and truth. From
these observations it appears, that though she has not
much sterling wisdom, she yet possesses a conside­
rable degree of shrewd sense and low cunning; and
this may be proved by many instances— First,
.She, has prophesied of her end, and of the
treatment she shall meet with prior to its coming.
Her enemies are to persecute her, and she is to be
taken up^ and to have an awful trial; In conse­
quence of this, her very opposers are represented, as
fulfilling her prophecies, and thereby proving her
hpnesty and mission. Spch a prophecy proceed*
fVom cunning and artfulness ; she had every reason
to think and expect, that some time or other, a per­
secution would break out against a profession so
heretical and blasphemous; and therefore it was
policy to predict it.
Again, another proof of her cunning, is the me­
thod she takes to have every thing done agreeable
to her own w ill; and that is by pretending to
have* a communication for it, and enforcing to her
followers the commands of the Spirit, and the dan­
ger of deviating in the smallest matter from his
orders. Thus, when the trial at the Neckinger was
about to take place, wishing to fiave every thing to
her own mind, she takes a likely method for it, by
wfiting to Miss Tpwnly thu9:
" If we go one step from the directions the
** Lord hath given to me* we are lost in time and to
" all eternity. I would sooner go to the dames to
Digitized by Google
*
.<
[
k
e
J
5
itfn
b
’W
$
iW
a
j'tjfl',/ttj#
g
iig
p
n
o
h
fli<
=
i«
le
f
i fro
m
iM
*
1d
jf§c£
k
w
j r
ije L
o
rd ba*ft;g
iw
ja
o »
te e
q
w
c
flE
m
a
g
f «
0
5 $
m
m
tfsfc.ch
aise m
y fE
ie
n
d
s'jfo
d
“.t^
e
irlive^
jio
eyp
i^
frcw
n
eu
W
oti'n
y
p
r
tp
u
ifd
tim
a
d
e
" byvftfty ,bw11
s >
.tkej+
erd.h
a
thc
o
n
v
n
a
m
d
e
d
“ if, w
em
u
s
tO
b
e
y
s
”'c
t,iy
i v
,r
i -j.u
-. >
• ! .t
1
1 \
s , '' ', 'K
i ii' *
' * ;c:*!•.•// i fii/.iJ ,
■"!■»'1 •
/niffre -is at* wnd^fti^ble proof!ofcfaimingnesejmd
9 f^ 4l,rSh^owa3^wtei'by stacbaiifcetkod^tb txatee lm
(
W\H{!be?;^i>Der
v ^nd:tkfa ahe^loea in allothec
citfpuipstances. . It is only: fco.say*!>frXaip orcfeefod/^
‘f Iamcomm4nded.Hi,“i Itt issaid*itd>me,” &c..fioo;
- A n d ,i f i she : w frn ts ; ja o y i jtU n g s H th a ffn a p e y i i a vrtt
p*tr£ha$&i lit jfc .only fcojsay,-ci*Ae Lom,teth\mtak
*1 ojf.ifcTv This iauit acknowledge,to fow
cwwn*ng. * (.: 1
An^he/ iaa^rtce io£ cuaninig is warding the
benevolence and obedience, of: heti followers with
promises of honour and distinction in another
world, and after her death; in this world; and as*
suring them of their beindLvery high in the favour
of the Lord while in tbU M r, Another instance of
cunning and craft isf jj^ jM lin g all her nonsense
to consist in mystery; ferljpweby the simple and
thoughtless are both cajpitivated|and blinded. Thus
she is proved to possess: a tolerable share of sense,
and indeed her decei^Uig.so^iiitiny people is a mani­
fest proof of it, if there were no other.
Yet to ward off the imputation of craft and cun*
ning,*she pretends to be a novice, and declares her­
self to be “ The simplest of all her father’s house.”
(this is playing the fool,) this she does to make you
believe she has not sense enough for an impostor,
or to contrive a cunningly devised fable. But
she is deficient in one article, so essentially neces­
sary to people of her profession, I mean a good
memory when her spirit of vain glory again pre-
dominates, she can boast enough of her wisdom.
Digitized by Google
W r fthi* is ber lftnghage> whdil Writnig1
ministers, ^Strange Effeetof Faith/* p a g e ' T
haVe^imderstandittg a*>well as you all, neither tijii t
a toit behind ypo/f S6 that she is wise or simple,
knowing or ignorant, ‘great or little, eve^yvJthingbr
nothing, as best suits her purpose^ * v- *
*
> *
I must own, I wonder that such boasting of her
tr
ia
d
ora wassoffered to oomey 'as >
ptoceechtagffim
herself? forJibe office of spending her trumpety
gerierally belong* to the Spirit*, wbflO'shfe* hh «her
dVnimpdrsony plekdsher nothingoads. I have to in-
forth *the .reader,1 thati Ji bfeliebe the predfctiW
dC.this prophetess, relative *to what;is'cklldd her
tarfal trial, will soon'be nccotiplished. 11 have just
sent a |dtter to .the :Bishop<of v London, whichy f
I trust, will prevail on his Lordship to take tbi* bflP
siriess inhandy apd which anustoirfallftly;pttt ead
toit ina very short time* < * ^
r:i i;* i:'>h iJr;;> • r :: *
;
:I): .":t f • *
.
• on gg t .<
1 n 'J
>
*;<> r • i*/>i: <{i. i * u ; j 1«) »
>
■ .. > <
• •!» i. s tv.c ;>>ii h • i t;J , , n.'n
i r’ . .ijj.’i r j i l ii<; *!o ? • •«
? i*' *•i* • ** * «
. 1 i! ^
1.'1>7 v. r . t <,f . *i( ' > * 11
* r . .>) (. !i;l' "• 1 ; bl kl-*. *
i i n •»
<’l i’ ■ > ‘• ' ■ n *' •'J b.W. “■
: ' '• 97': ! •»
J :i \ vl: *1«^'> j; 7 ' / i i i r ) < i *i >
>’) /• V \'A ' r ■
' < ' • .i'lf: UJ-.O fti in*.i >ii ,> ?\ Sii'i
1 i i i .< ; u,i<; 1
,’i<> » ( I v*:i«
- c i v .t i * / .<> J » ■ •; ’! i i:: .. ./ : . - "l
. . \,/ m j ‘ : ; . 1 : J i- < ')
Printed by W. S m it h and e l . 6, King Street, SerenDiet*
Digitized by Google
JOANNA
sciples of Joan i» S MiCrijou. wjo is nearly seventy y ars ■ J3
, are, it is said, persuaded that she is in a tew we>ks to
for-.b n e w Messiah. It is stated, that a cot or cradle, ]
of most expensive and magnificent materials, lies been H ?'
|e, by a lady of fortune, for itj-s Souihpole’s accauchmntht, p p
been fur some days exhibited at the warehouse of an,
t cabinet mak r in Aldersgate street. Hundreds of genteel"
a i J;
of both sexes have been tone this cradle, in which the
______ to of Joanua beiitv. the troe M- ssialt is to be rocked!— *>H
vV»£*ent-.—(Howing is given as a correct description of the crude;— s
e n,(uma Sotf^Hd** crib, three feet six inches by two leel ; of satin- ,C I J
sjjind my Swith brass trellis-, side and foot board ; turned feet, carved
saJrlt hut I*, on castors; a swing ool, inside caned, to wing on cen-.
lt||abr wisdj each end gilt mouldings, top and bottom for go d letters; " *
diao) reaad’y cover, with blue silk, carved and gilt under it ; a gol<IPa r* ?
i
. p| so I amd dove, aud olive branch ; green stars at each corner, gilt ; ^
h aufuee IbM
*
*
1forcHnrc; andesnbroidcredcelestia crown, with Hebrewe
fV's ters; gold lettess; a igtpb'swocl mattress, with white. .2
Vf
do
oJbo
di^lydin thi down bed, down pillow, god two superfine blapkeis."
• .iiltoo’reachei preparations new making for the approaching aecouihement"
: hlioaiis peri!0®* Southoott, afford anptber melancholy prool of the len* '
>
1 nai not furld fol’y ef present age However disiiogoislied we
•
< a prrs coiftin comparispn with oug ancestors, for general infoitnatioa t,ee
. - gf ^ e n c e, we scruple not to say, that the darkest period of our „ 1
' fcan scarcely furnish a parallel instance to the credulity and
,"^vu that prevail amongst tbs followers of this woman That “ "
,
hsUht y<
>s f Bt be either an unfortunate lunatic, or a deliberate money, ;
» a impostor, is evident; and in either case it in evident thatr A f t
>at nil io#°Pshould be pnt to that torrent of fanaticism and Mas-ubig, t
fosse ara.uj> which flows from her preaching and.publicat.ona. If she pan a ’
Ate psk ‘sene> why has she not the benefit of proper medical advice l ed | ]1
T«Mls:a4ofh>
Bapology cannot be offered for her ravings, it is righisbc am *~-
jj, pjgotjjbe told, that though the laws of her ecudry are wisely ioJe- jjl e %
iiuoiipuij1 all matters of religious opinion, they have provided that^ j.
ha i|<;e)gufred name of the Deity shall uo( be profaned with impunity. ,
insl* ,«Hblasphemies against God%all impostures in religion, as falsely ^
IUIX9 £ a rB
Srto extraordinary commissions from (Sod, and terrifying or r
I 20,1)0j f people utih false denunciations o f judgments, inasmuch •
l 'at|) pg tend to subvert all religion and morality, ate punishable his ’
■
T^^3codd(teniPori‘l judges with fine aud imprisoameut, and also sueh , a t J
y
’i'iMXP infamous punishment as to the Court in discretion shall r t fi j
idjof jieet, according to the heinausneu of the crime."—J Hawk. ve t j
.aasoeik the Crown, c. 7. im n /
* » .reppanday last the Chapel of Mr. Tozer, in Duke street, St. *
* iuuj Fields, was crowded by the disciples of J o a n n a . .;
1 re.wjnjco-rr, and others, whom cariosity had drawn tbither The hr
)-a^q|addressed the irnltitude without the Chapel, and told them e g o
' issf je accouchement Was expected to take place iu October, and mil, 1
V Joylthat till then his Chapel wouidnoi be re-opened. Finally, r-a t ,
.{q Jged himself, that if his predictions should no> be fu filled; e n g
luipufid appear thereon Christmas day, and acknowledge him- if t ),
‘ion Id all the other believers, to have been deceived At (he rv r„
J
on ofh's harangue, he was honoured with several rounds,he f,,
tuse. He gratefally acknowledged ■
tlfis by repealed’ lmtUr|
to the mob, “ thanking them, desiring Goa to bless P f* ,
hiug them their liberty.” . • f
—— — ,— ...c narpooners c
ri^Vf^o^TiwriSealtlle Aberdeen ships struck a tisli, but owing to I
pejPJ9ia\)'JiS ph<^Bt*
,er coming on, was obliged to cut and leavpfier,
t h a r p o o n s and lines. Next day they struck auolhesow
£?®p anvsi aiJrrnSshould Ibis be kut llieirold friend, with theirtnrt lea-
fiaiiseisyo »uij the devil would have it, another atOfut camedruckai
hness left
the J
priUce
IWarwick-
ter a lapse
proceed to
*ards com
ected to be
mess has it
Sudbourne-
ike of the
yal Family
akin# their1
her at their
ioned.
D p leased ,
0 appoint
Havre^de-
: J'
tdrevrs, in
s auction:
>were as-
lat it Had
jcott, the
furniture
•ward for
ery high
gen; and
kingdom,
his house
liduse*
ilrty-four
roving to
tve been
\ t hy the
\ was very
violence,
1 aiii per-
\is anitrial
re. The
ibI sped-
i on the
>f one of
sad wea«
with the
and who
■ lie a i'u u u a u i U I R W i r c v
by the late rains, hasgiten a start to Lean Cattle, put Bueep aw*.
Lambs continue dull on sale, even at reduced prices The market*
of Smitbfield, St. Ives, &c. are full a shilling lower for prime B eef
Veal, and Mfftton. The Wool trade has had a rapid advance
particularly in fine fleeces of the Merino and South Down kinds,
and still looks upward. * . .
T h e B a l l o o n a t Y o r k -—On Mr. Sadler*s ftocenstdn with
hi* ballopn, at York^Rhces, the flag Vas presented to Mr. S.
by the it on. Miq| Vnj-gop, davghtarjof-bjsGiyacethe AreHijisbQp
of York. The ground and aveanes were kept by a large detach­
ment of tbe 3d Dragoon Guards. Mr. Sadler, in five minutes after
his ascension, found Himself perpendicularly ovek the, Lunatic
Asylum, Mr, S. discOrsrcH .Dan&ketd^hills^and, tfe&pgh
highly gratified by the attention he had recHveft since his visit
into Yorkshire, was no ways anxious to descend there, imagining
he should receive little aid'iu makinpgpod bis descent. ,H e there­
fore immediately determined tohadeprepara­
tion, by opening the valve, when he found the balloon rapidly de­
scending. Mr. S on looking round, perceived hundreds coming to
his assistance from all directions. The grappling irons first caught
the top of dn ash tree, wheo e quantity of ballot was thrown out,
and, laughable to relate, tb^andffel1among’a flock of sheep, they
running through the hedge to ehcape ft, and, by taking the line of I
the balloon, still receiving more. There the grappling irons lost
their hold^bnt fastened Uf a.Hedge on t h e . t able of tbe ro^d
from Crajke to Easiagwold. The car ck.ayidttft Aihqsp jof
stones, laid at the side of the road for repairing it. A countryman
was tbe first who came up ; Mr. S. wished him to lay hold of the
grappling cord, to prevent its losing Its hold, but it was a long time
before he cool'd be prevailed op, hfctil 'heartened on by others
coming up.- The balloon w& reradvdd into &
n adjoining grass
field, for the means of discharging the remainder of the gas, and
foldjng up the balloon.
F o o t R a c e — O n M onday 'Johm Charlton, o flh ftv /u tp n iy o f
D urham , and W illiam Efrcrick, o f X ed kor.fi*Id, Y o rksh ire, ran
th e m atch, tw o m iles, over K navesm ire, w hich w as w ell co n ­
tested. Charlton took the lea d ,, bettin g <r and 7to 4on h im )/a
man havin g drawn up one o fi rhe cbains acVoss the course^'the
Durham man stooped under; and E scrick a^teidpting to .leap , h is
foot caugh t and he fe ll; b e afterw ard s m ade up to hfetfnta^onist,
and th ey ran breast and breast for a quarter a f a u n le : Charlton
then gained about a y a r d ; a boy beiitgjgk|£w tidow n, E scrick had
to leap o ver him, w h ereb y he lost some strides, and w as beat at the
end about ten yard s — T h e W o >
fctle^5
w bjSdy*i 'tt'JVD m inutes and
ITpecoqda; . ’•] i f ! i ?A m»Y YA V*—
The match against timeeuytebyRober^glerbv,onQold New­
ton, in Yorkshire, to go lOti "mjle^jn to norira, on Knavesmire, he
taking 100 guineas to 5 guineas; {fiat he accomplished tflie per­
formance, was attempted.' "fjd sfarfed a quarter befoth an
Thursday se’nnight in the evening; and gSvfe up 20 miriutbs
the next day, in consequent of Hi»-le£s b?fog mUch^wMienXfcftef
having gone 87 miles i of d6urSe*one JioHr ddd twetity-fivebniw ^"
only reraaiadd to perform the thirteen rntfes, had he been cfi&
l
to proceed. ’ ••I‘
v * * ’ * *['[' ’ ‘ <
*
*P e d e s t r i a n is^ —$fr: 'Th'opad ^pptght, of TewkesbUiyj^
undertaken, for a Wager qf $ 0 guip^s. toperform the astoui*®1
pedestrian feat of lOu rqilbsm.l v
tsuccessive. liour*, either to
— -— bilf Wiftihiit' nilv adlstnru-R whafcairi** Vho ntofAl
Digitized by Google
