{"name":"Charges Against Joanna Southcott","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1804__anonymous___charges_against_joanna_southcott.pdf","mytitle":"Charges Against Joanna Southcott","mylang":"de"}
C H A R G E S
A.CAIM6T. I *
Joanna Southcott, ■
' •
» .. J
A|T* HC& #
: TWELVE JUDGES, ’ ;
T H E J V M . Y +
AMS -
Four and Twenty Elders,
I WHO r*E»IOX1> AT » H
* P R E T E N B E B ' T R I A L ,
A T T H I
. N eck in ger, Bermondsey, ?
In the Y e a r 1804.
' Also Just Publish'd, Price 6d. the .SUthEdjtipa s (
J O A N N A S O U T H C O T T ’ S P R O P H E C IE S ,
SouUiuings Complete Refutation of herabsurd Doctrinal, '
.* ■ • . " B Y I . H I N N .
Published by R. W A L K E R , 90, High'iiolbora.
Sold also by.J. Ros, ChisweTl-Streetj T. Hvuties, T,udgate-Hll);
M. Jo s h , 5, Newfatr-Street | Broom, .15*J BriryJaur ; J. P n s-
muk, 90$, Hieh Holboni) S. Lars 70, 1
Fetter-laur[ EuxuALh, 31,
Isunhtth Martlt, and all oilier Booksellers in Town and Cooutry.
■------- ;
--------- ■
------;
------->-v;, - "T■"— s
--" '"-1
"1 ■
"■
* '
s t r r a n > s a t t h i it a j a t o r u c s .
Trialed by J. lowe, 46, (irayr-inn-lane, Molborn.
Digitized by ( j O O ^ I e
«:.l S.IJ! M U '
^PH E Trial df'JdLipa Sdtf&Vott^at ftie ^eckiogfcr*Houfe,
A Berm©ndfey,fn the* year .1804, was, I beiieyeTthe
irioft ihrd^afclc*1tiak eV q fym kndwrf.^ f t &SP *
prifmflSr-rior t/rdWci(tdr; an4 xne offender (if To i
„ ^ Itjaer
-tiW j&fcibtitdr; flic offender (Tf T
o fte may
W called) was the fuj>rem
ejudge. The.'Witnefle? alfo that
were prelent were all in lfenilrdf^thie aelihqiient, and no
one againft hen Who then <
&
y. wonder a* her-being ho­
nourably ac&v^tro £ J»tfwh9*&f f otSlloS fctofc Will lay,
that fdch a Trial can afford any fupport to a (pretended)
trillion, (allowedyvpf^ byMt^advoeat^ to be one) of a very
extraordinary nittrrcT* Atid yet this*partial, childifli, in-
iignificaht Trial is one of itsfvifecipal lupports.
The Trial commenced on thei^th-of December, and
lafied fcv<$i 8^1. ThfeCoqr^ ,co§tift$0
. 112fudges, 42
Jiuqrmen; and fbuVaridtwenty Elders. The fourand twenty
Elders Vllude to J
P
L
e
v. iy.,^. ,1 bqyfe josd the Trial with
a great deal of* attention ; and it appeals to me that the
proceeding^ 0/ the Cqqrt^arenot onjy fcilainetfblpbift highly
criminal: And as thedelation isgettihg a
*little formidable,
• and the beft intereft of mgpkiridconcerned in it, 1 think it
incumbent upon me to put the public, in poflieflion of my
fentiments cOncerriingit. in thus performing what appears
to me to be my duty, I fhall bring forward the principal
a&s of the Court, and make it appear, that they are deroga­
tory to theGlory of God, contrary to reafonand Scripture,
ana deferving the highlit certfilte.
Firfl then :—The Trial in itfelfwas unjuftifiabje. The
defignot the Trial was to decide, whetherJoanna’s Million
wasQfGod, ornot. But thiswas decidedbefore bythe Ktv«.
Ml1
. Pomeroy, of Exeter^ who Joanna herfelf declares was
ehofenof, God for that very purpofe, and endowed'with
much extraordinary,,wifcjomj; oir purpofe to perform the
work with propriety. The affuifaption therefore qf that
office that the ju d ^ occmied wa^^uuttwoation; and the
exbreife thereoTcntireTy unwarrantable. ,
The .Court Sheri *« chargeable^ ,firiV, with;affuriiing a«f
See it had no right to ; add fecoiidly/ with reviving a
ca&de that had legallyjeCeiyed its death blowj^Which revi­
val has produced the moll alarmingconfequentfes.
'ThatJoanna, and, borifequently>
4
th‘
eCourt^ ackhowle^g^j
Mr. Pomeroy to be chofen'of the Lord to he Joannaus
judge,-1 refer to~page tto, bf KWhat mannero'f communi-
catiens are;tJU
efe .Thefe are thewords of Joitina’s fccre-
’tarios ; “The Lord bad placed Pomeroy asJoanna’s judge 5
« perfectly
Digitized by Google
perfectly as Pilate wa* our Saviour’sjudge/* And far a
a proof that Mr. Pomeroy had palled the fentence of con-
demnation upon her, 1 appeal t-p.Joanna’s own caafeflion,*
page ^2 of *Yhe explanation of the Bible:’ “ Aswrong as*
** Pilate fcondemneg our Saviour, much wronger have youf1
<
e condemned Hrorn thefe quorations.it is evident 'thrat*
Joanna’s judges .Have taken ;top much upon them; for*
Joanna, in die nature of }thiiigs, pud.by the Laws dfOod and1
than, had po. right to any trial ^fter fhe had rcceivod the*
lpntence of condemnation from the R,ev. Mr* Pomeroy. ’It*
appears (Ken that the Tiial itfelf was illegal, andthat thd*
Court has donp;wrong,
in trying a caufe that was before*
legally condemned. „ . ; . . l
But the Court is not only chargeable with trying a traufei
already tiied, ^.y.that authority from whom there is no apt'
peal; ;but alfd with jujtifying a caufe already condemned
and this lail error Is \yorfe then the fii.ft: as *he confe-*
quence^is very mifclyeypus, and .Gpd. only .knows how*
great the evil may be. Whfcn the feed is fown it.is hard *o>
predial the harveft. When a contagion is gone forth; no
o,ne knows what ravages it will make, nor who will falhftl
victim tq its-devouring jaws. The judges of whom L amt
\ rijmg, ^^eh^owledge tliernfelves, that if Joanna's cauf^is*
a^ejypun, y.wTl peIjie yujppf thquf^n4$,and tens of/thou-i
farads ; and tp (ay is nut a jdelpfjpj}) :is a blafphemous ^e-^^
fi^cdoucin.thf wifdomtof jpm who appointed Mr, Pomeroy* .
to be Jq^ryna’sjudge. i *
\ Thefe things beiqg fo ,^ e t
e$nfe^ue9ce of the Trial ^ e x -f
c^edingly f a r mi ng, i l ^ e ^vpjafting. happineXs.orqrniferyt
of thoylan^sot^h^ hugian rflC£,is involved in it* N»egher>
is this allrfKp Tri^usof ^ t eqixfequenjte, that even Joanna^
herfelTplat^ecj die ^ecifiqj pf hm .paqfe entirely upon- itJJ
See page i ;4.of thje hpok of f* 'Jhe Trial.” : - #» , :
' .liv in g rigw. m^de it appear, that the. TriaTwas iUegal,
the poqfequeijces alarming, &ci J. fh.ail.proteedvtoiconfi-^
dbpr the’ various acts of Court, which will alf© appear*
irrational and &
p
.i/.ch}^*4*an, and- deferring the fevereft cen**
fyre. ‘Aiip here the Jir^ afi that c)ebrands aUentiomi&the1
lifting .up of Hands, f >i vi-.->
Thjs'grand .find momentous ceremony .was petformed the l
fcppqijl day OftHe Trial.. W e have it related*: in>
the 8oth >
p 4 g e ^ thyibyok^cal1
,(^
1 • T ]^ T jial,* \hu$; When thejen*!
*** energy.entering fitft,- lh «M A
,/ ^ ^ jie a ,.a a a wa^ npt able tq. {peak : ..and-is shtaJ
/■fof f r a S l l ¥ j W » i i n c / q ? f p 4 „ a n t i n '
jpind fiic thought fife mould have fainted away ; out t«
3;
' * ‘ i,i»ib
?
Google
44 her great aftoni&ment, when all had entered, though (he
** felt a* it were dying before, (he was as a giant refrefhed
44 with new wine; without pain, ficknefs. or weaknefs :
44 hut ftood up, and felt the Spirit of the Lord enter within
** her; to call them all to the remembrance of the fall: and
44 when (he told them of the promife made to the woman, to
•* bruife the ferpent’s head, every man in the room held
1
4 isp his handy to join with her in claiming the promife•
u Many other parts of Scripture they joined in the fame :
** that Chrifi mull be the helpmate in the woman, for the
•• man, to bring in his Redemption.** Here we have the ce­
remony performed* and an account of its deftgn and effects ;
the firft is to join with the woman in claiming the promife
tOade to the woman, to bruife the ferpent’s head* The cere­
mony alfo fignified, that the Court joined with the woman
in that remarkable fentiment and doctrine : K That Chrift
w muft be the Helpmate in the Woman for man to bring in his
44 Redemption* M
— Thefe two points {hall be distinctly
cea&dered*
The claiming the Promife claims our £rft attention. This
Premie is found, Gen', iii* And I uiU put enmitybetween*
thee and the Woman*andbetweenthyfeed and herfeed ; ItJhdX
ltuife thy head9 and thou ftdtt bruife hit keeL This is the
promife that Joanna pretends to d a ia t and the Court with
uplifted hands joins her utfo doing. N ow ! would elk b f
what rule Ifa a v e n u
autdycsii ____ t ^ tomd»that
f a 14th and 15th verfes contain the fatehce denounced eta
h e ferpent, and nothing elfe; and this is verjr h r ftmtt
being a promife to the woman. I am vCry fcnfiUe that
Joanna is not the firft that has called it a promife. B u lked
U came to be sailed a promife at firft,! cannot conjecture*
unleft it was from that inordinate paffion,that manypeople
Ifa e of fpirituafixing every thing they meet with, ft it
well known that many peffages of Scripture bear a fpiritu-
al as well as aljteral meaning. And as many people are
never fatitiled withoutgoingtoextremes, thereforetheymuft
needs extracta fpirituafmeaningout thofe pafEtgea that w ill
only bear Ihe literal* The fact it; men are fo divided, that
fane f a a fpirituaf meaning in almoft every pafikg&afcA
ethers in none : and both the one and die other are wrOhg.
1 believe and rejoice that many places in the Old Teftasncnt9
ftadoweth forth Chrift and theChrifttaa difpfnfatioo; hist
Sofa the promife of a Mcffiah in thecurfe pronounced on *
f a ferpent requires a much better fight that I ana poQTcffed
o f.
i/;iti/K'l by G o O ^ l e
if . A few thoughts on the fubject will evince, that only a
literal meaning can be drawn frorti the Text. Fifft, Tho
Lord was adorefling himfelf to the ferpent, and not to the
woman ; therefore what was faid or intended, was directed
immediately to the ferpent, and not to the 'wotnan ; and to
fay otherways would be to charge the Lord with that dif-
order that man would blufh to be thought guilty q f : I mean,
directing hisdifcourfe to one perfon, and intending what he
faid for another. I would alkthe advocates for this promife,r
if they (on mature deliberation) can fuppofe, that $£ve ana
the ferpent thought as they do.
That is : whether they underftand. that, while the Lord
was apparently denouncing a curfe on Satan, he was in
reality givinga moft gracious promife to the woman ? this
is certainly too great an abfurdity to be adm:tted. Secondly, n
that the Serpent and not the Devil is here intended, is evi­
dent, frdm his being called a bead of the field; from which
it is alfo clear, that 'prior to his punifhment he was a beaft
o f the field, and not an angel, as fome have fupppfed.
Thou art curfed, (not above every ang. 1
, or devil) but abov6
every beaft of the field. His going on his belly alfo is
applicable to the ferpent, but not to the Devil, unlefs it-be
fuppofed, that the Devil goes on his belly; for the curfe is*
Upon thy Belly JhaXt thou gd.
His punifhment being to eat tke duft alfo corroborates the
fame fentiment, unlefs we fuppofe that 'Satan feeds on duft.
The term of the feritence alfo unites1in fupport of the fame;
A ll the days of thy litft. Not for ever and ever;-(which
would have be£n moft proper if it had Veen Satan) but for
the terth of life r'—^The remkining part of the fentencc alfo ih
tfiefrVth verfe is very applicable tothe ferpent, but not to the
rB M ,
iv
V I will-put enmitybetween thee and the wofnart, and
tetweeh ^hy feed and hei feed ;rit (hall bHilfe thy head, and
thou (hah bruife hts heelv This between the woman and
the'&rprfn* is xnbft literally fulfilled. There is a fettled
'erftiut^between man and the ferpent; the ferpent bkes the
hdef, of ehdeaVours To to d o ; and the man turnsand treads
cefpbrrht^head. • " 7 ' - •
• * T
'Indeed, there isnotone part in the fentence but whfat,'(on a
fuppofitiorrthat the ferpent is ment^is literally fulfiiedio the
fit) fnfatl fupport of the fall: white the Other fuppofi-
*tion is without any fupport,- and is big with abfurdity; and
it does not appear to me,*that thechriftiah religtoh HanJs
*inneed o f any fuch force dnd unnatural explanations to tup
'"port it, as it is well founded andfapported without It*: and
iuch unjuftifiable interpretations do it mdre hurt than
good. It appears then the court joined with Ioanna in
j Digitized by' l O O g ^ c l a i m i n g
f laiming a promife that has no place in the Bible. *-But fup* *
;
?
*ofing there was fuch a promife given, what claim h’as.^
oanna to it.any more than any other woman? and where is
the fenfe of fuch a proceeding? It is founded.neither inScrip-
iure nor reafon. There is not a word in the Bible about 4
claiming the Promife, from Genells to Revelations, and I am
thoroughly perfuaded, it isnothingbut a Satanick invention ; /
a novelty, intended as a bait, to entice and captivate thofe \
that have itching ears. It is the offspring of vain glory, to"
advance the author’s great name a*mongft mankind ; and this /
(through the caprice of the credulous, and the duplicity o f”
the Court,) it has amply obtained. Joanna is fo high in the
favour of God, as to he fcle&ed from the inconceiveable '
mafs o f human beings, to claim the promife. Great there­
fore is Joanna of the Englifh! yea, far greater then Diana ot
the Ephefians ! Thus much for the claiming the Promife :
The next is that “ Chrift mull be the helpmate in the womanj
fi* for man, to bring in his redemption/’ That is to fay, by
the lifting up of, hands wa's ratified and confirmed, that
eftabliftied doctrine of Joanna’s, that man’s redemption could
not be effected but by the joint efforts and co-operation o f
Jefus and Joanna. That this is an eftablifhed doctrine in
Joanna’s infpired writings, 1 refer the reader fro page 69 o j .
t<
( The anfwer of the Lord to the powers of daikncis/*
“ Taclearmy honour 1 cannotfreeman,
“ But by the W OM AN ! ”
And that the woman cannot effect it without the help off
Chrift needs no proof : fo that by the paffage juft quoted, as
w ell as the whole tenor of Joanna’s writings, the co-opera*-
tion of Jefus and Joanna is indifpenfably neceffary.
Now this doctrine I muff take the liberty to leave out off
my creed ; and my reafon is, becaufe 1 cannot find any ■
fuch do&rins in my Bible. For in that I find, that Chrift
trod the wineprefs alone, lfaiah lxiii. 3. And that there is
but one Mediator between Godand man, the $Ian Chrift Jefus*
And as Meave this doctrine out of my creed, fo I think it
my duty to treat it with contempt, and alfo to treat the
court with like contempt for fupporting it, by the lifting up ,
of their hands in its favour.
The next account we have of the lifting up of hands, 19
in pagegi. Thus,“ After the reading of this communication the
u alF;mbIy inflantly flood up, and, with uplifted kands}onQ and
“ all, cried out, 1 he will of the Lord be done.
In order that the reader might underftand this, hemuftbe
informed, that Joanna was, at her Trial, to have been thrown
into a trance. So fhe prophecied, and fo the people expect­
ed. In confequencc of which Mrs. Beacraft bought oil
' ' . Digitized by Google ^
fco9-flannel to anoint her feet, ami wrap them in. (See page 7S9 '
The trance being thuspredi&edandexpe&ed, ftrengthcned
the people’s faith in the miflion ; for who would fuppofey
that any perfon would .predict fuch a*thing without being
certain that, at the appointed, time, it .would take place ?
however the time drew near for the trance to take place, even
to the day : for, according tojthe prophecy, the trance was
to proceed the breaking thefeals. See page 130. Now the
witqeffeshad all been examined, and the court was ready te
break £be feals, and open .the fealed writings. Joanna was
now, in,an awful fitu;*tiqn, and* as may be fuppofed, very
thoughtful concerning tbe.tr^n^e ; and as (lie had-no reafon
to expeft dj her. head muft be full of fchemes how to elude
it wjihout Qonfufion. At .length a plan was htggefted and
fixed ; and ijie evening before the,trance was to take place,
]oannajpretended \o be very cheerful, and told Mrs. Under*
wood, that ftie longed fof thenrprrow pu comej and never
wifh^d mor^foraday in her life, Ifthere ;\vas an.v truth in
in this, it muff be .that her difficulties may be the fooner
over. * ^ . \ **
This affe&ed chcerfu^efs was a nece&ary mafk forherdif-
trefs, for which it;was nqdoubt.intended. In the nightfhe
tells us, ffie was very ear;neft in player, that this claythe Lord
would ..throw her into the trance; but, mark the anfweri
inftead of being told ffie ffiould be thrown into the trance ac*>
cprding to the word of tlw Lord ^ inftead of being told that
be. who bad promifed woul&alfo fulfil, being the fame yef-
•terday, to day, and for ever, without wavering or fkadow of
turning* •
• . , t
Inftead,pf being remindedof what the Spirit promifed her
at her firft fetting out: viz, that, whatever he ffiould put
into her mouth, that he would do upon the earth; inftead
of this, .ffie was told, u She knew not what ffie was praying
for ; and that if ffie prayed for her trance now, ffie prayed
c‘ for her death for ffie never ffiould live lpng after it, only
“ to return an-d tell them what ffie had feen.” It muftbe fup*
gpofed that this anfwer, fo very different to what ffie had rca-
ion to expe&, muft be to the prophetefs a dreadful ffiock*
even to the centre; for what could ffie fuppofe the people
would think of her and her miflion, if the trance did not
take place as predi&cd ? However, a communication is made
up* o fet afide. the trance, which ffie knew was very difficult
to be counterfeited. The Spirit tells her'(asbefore ooferved)
that if ffie prayed for her trance now, (lie prayed for her
death ; .and that he muft either difappoint the believers of
£he trance now, or clfe frtisfiy them, and take hef out of the
^ , world,
Digitized by V ^ O O ^ L C
world, and bring on every judgment that is threatened W
England; and that her death, and England’s deftru&ion,
nit’ft be the effects of their fatal curiofity. Then the Spirit
goes on thus : u If all the truths that have been laid before?
f< them, all the witneffes being called up, and proved thd
“ changes that have taken place this year, and all things
•* that have happened before, and the manner I have brought!
u it clofe to my Bible, and to my Gofpel, will not convince
“ them, without thy being in a trance ; then let them fay.
Thy oppofers are here ; for I have always told thee, and
“ now tell thee again, thy trance (hould never come without
“ oppofers; fo if it now come, they muft be oppofers;
•* for if theu haft no oppofers, now thy trial ends by my
“ command; but now I tell thee, it will be brought oii
“ again by man, — w Now I have told thee -
“ my mind ; and let them anfwer it ; andl will anfwer thee
“ again. Let them give their anfwer before the feals are
“ broken ; for I made thee faint the day that is paft to pre-
,c vent them breaking the feals, till 1 knew their minds.
“ Now, iftwenty-four ftand out, without we fee the trance,
“ we will not believe; then twenty-four oppofers are pre^
“ fent, and let their names be taken down, ” ***- *
There is a great deal more in thecommunication ; but
what it is tranferibed is enough to fhew, that it is a madfe
thing, and full of artifice. Fbr, mark firft :— if the traote
„ is required, the ccnfequence will be dreadful* Mark, fc£
condly, Thofe that require it are to be branded withtheoppto-
bi ions appellation of oppofers, which would be expe&ed \b
operate as a preventative, where every one was deffrottSof
being thought a zealous advocate for the caufe ; ahdfo grtfe
it a greater ftimulation every fuch perfon’s name was Jtobli
taken down. Mark, thirdly, To prevent their being^tireft:
difappointed asto the trance, it is promifed to takefflaffi
ther time, and that very ioon. After the fpi ritW cFm tM S
them from demanding the trance by thus threatehinglSfell,
fhe makes a beginning to encourage their fdbmiflion to the
will of God, by promifes (as I fuppofc); thus, “ But if they
fay, W e want no further proofs, the will of the Lcfrd %e
11 done and not ocy;s, but he then feems to lofe hitnfelf, and
C
l glides into another, fubjecti** v•*
-'*
*
-
The communication being finifhed, Joanna brought H lift©
court, afew minutes after eleven o’clock in the motttnig o f
the third day of the Trial. She delivered a (hart difeourfe
of the purport of it, and particularly on the* hev>
gave to her Trial and million; after which thecoitaiMihitktidii
' was read; and, as foon as it was finifticd, the affembly
in/lantlj ftood up, and with UPLIFTED H AN D S cried
Digitized by ’0 ^ 3 ^ OUt,
8
out, 11 The will bf the Lord be done, ” as if they had faid,
W e very willingly difpcnfe with thetrance. Thus the Pro-
phetefs came off triumphant, and by her artfulnefs, extrica­
ted hcrfelf out of this dilemma, as eafy as out of that con­
cerning her father's death.
Having now explained the communication, and taken
notice of the artifices employed, let us return to the fubjeft
of lifting up the hands, which is here done, asa token of dif-
penfing with the trance. And on refuming the fnbjeft, I
feel as I generally do whenever 1 think of it— very ditlatis-
fied with the proceedings of the court. Joanna'S pretended
million is very eccentric, and heterogeneous to the prejudices
o f the people, and the prefent mode of thinking : and there­
fore to receive and retain it, without any fupernatural evi­
dence, is the greateft weaknefs imaginable. What could in­
duce the court thus to act, is beyond conje&ure. There is
room for fufpicion, that there is fomething in it that will not
bear the light. The court had every reafon to believe ibe
communication was forged ; but the precipitatencfs of
their difpenfing with the trance, evinced, that they cared
not whether it was forged or n o t; for as foots as it was read,
M the aflcmbly inftantly flood up,” and announced their
approbation, without giving it a thought, or faying a word
by way of confukation, Joanna obferves in her writings,
that “ Men are as eafily deceived by the Devil as women,
and I think fhe has had a pretty good proof of it. Before I
leave this part I (hall take leave to make a little digrc&cm,
isi a fhort comment or two, on the communication. Firft
Com*— The Spirit rebukes Joanna's praying for the trance;,
and his argument is, that in praying for her trance (he prays
for her death. Now by the fame argument we ought not to.
pray for the Millenium, becaufe in fo doing w t pray fo*
the deftru&ien of thoufaads of our fellow creatures; and yet
the Millennium is what Joanna and the Spirit very muoh
exert the believers to pray for*
Second Com.— The Spirit fays.MIf thou haft no oppofers,
M now thy Trial ends by my command.” Howbeit, the Trial
did not end then, neither was there any notice taken of the
command. How will Joanna and the court anfwer for this
their difobedicace ? And how does this agree with what
Joanna fays to MifsTownley, page 3 ,41O f what manner of
communications are thefe ?” If we go one ftep from the
44 direftioxs the Lord hath given tome, w x are loft in time
4
4 and to all eternity, I would fooner go tb the flame*
d aea martyr, thanga one ftep from the dirbftiotas the Lord
4
^ h*th
9
Digitized by Google
i p
4
1 hath given to me conceiTiing my .TriaU” .
Third Com. “ But now I tell thee and them, it w ill be
brought on again by man. 99 OneVould Fuppofe from thefe
words, that the Trial would have been brought on again im>
mediately f^and this b much corroborate^ by an expreflion
below : *eNonea
but the fealed people do>ppear, before thou*
u meeteft the'pjublic : but ^whatever way I work, thou mu(l
mee$ the public before the days are o v e r a r i d 1
, again,
(t For i tell them all, what is begun by me; will end by man/*|
This is to the point, and indicates; that there was to be no-
time between the two Trials. I prefume therefore, that the
prophecy has failed,, as no fiich Trial has taken place; and i f
fuch a'Trial fhould be brought forward now, it will be no
fulfilment of* that prophecy,* becaufe of the difference of'
time andyet the opposition that Joanna now meets with, i*‘
looked upon as antecedent to that Trial.
Fourth Com. ^ 1 made thie faint the day.that is paft, to;
il prevent their opening the Teals till I knew their mind. ”
Strange that an omnifeient Spirit fhouldnot know their mind,
till fie was told !, "
W e fKallhow move forward to the ncjjt account concern­
ing thd llftihg up of hands,:which we fin'd ^ page 9 i . fame*
as the laft.:*‘ She fhewed that it ts i Trial \o wnich fhfe is
d called by the Lord, and hot bv rriari y t;lVat thaaflembly;
4( having lifted up their Piahds, fayirfi*, TKc wjlf ofi^ei^pre^*
if be cfohe, is the falling down of tne(>veh;y four’ elderk
u before him 5 and that fpeeclily foe mould be called aj>*.
4i pear'before mat) This;atfeVtion. alhiding to Rey. iv?i6. !
pCdf uciuic iiidiii i uia diiuiiuiii a ^ w, ,
I look upon as profane and pierun^ptuqus^' and'wfiidh the;
court ought* to hatfC1difeburitenkh<5ed and reproved/ *I f
Joanna had' faid Was
? the falling down of tbe'eight arjcP
forty before ifrfER, it .would have been*more like tfid
infatiate yan^y,, received enough ^ a ™ -.,*-
drangh’t , %
thkt fhe Itftifig up Of lianda- f upplies ;! fo e n tir e s t
for a*boUt anh<
5
tfr' And* hSl^hirid tKeh retiifns to the aTernbl^
With a communication frohi The' Sp?rit, 1
Y
>full of panegy ric, ^
on the Jiftihg up bfliand^, t.haf the court having dr^ult dcdp
into Joanhay$Ypmt? cbidd ftarldl v'a'vAi<
1.Belhg hailed fojh'e
very'pinnacle b f f
fpiritual pri<je. \tyjd Katfe it. in, they"*
/£n
/l ah/t ifw rwiTM'.9C tnllA«Te **
y
Google
h
it
*\
&
u
?(
J i
it
h
ti­
lt
it
it
it
r
a
H
il
it
it
,*t
- ■»’ . ' i ' '
and'though thy awful Trial-is not yfct begun ,,yet thy Trial
it
s called forward by me. And how I tell thee, if my
Spi rit had not been there to guard the heart o f every man,
Satau’s'arts would have worked,ftrpngly upon them-, to be
thy final death, and have brough ton three yeacsiotal famine*
to gratify their curiolUyj; This cUripfity broughtthe fa'll at
firf t ; and jjys curiofu.y was in ^he Jew's, whery they had
•feen all;myymiracle^^laying, *Let him cbmcdown frpm the
cuds* ari<i we will believe him : but had I not worked
greater mipcl^s before, than it was tp come down from
‘.the^crofs^ And now I tell thee, the truth sol thy prophe­
cies that have iollo wed-are greater than .thy being thrown
vinfto aUtranee ; hecaufe.tranfei have been common without
prophecies^, And novfrl.tell thee* ffom their holding up
their hindsVto fay they are convinced the calling is of
God; and rejoicing tjo prevent: the-judgment, is falling
down before me, as iq Jrefign to my wifdom, trading'in
my power, mercies, goodne£$ and truth, to give glory
unto my name. Here they fall down before me, for me
to a£1according to my wifdom, mercies, goodnefsand fruth*
Now who jkdli blame tlieni f (hatil condemn them ?
for It is I that juftifieth them ; but! hid they been as pre-
fumptuous as the Jews of old, to have faid, ‘ Let our idle
curicrfity now he gratified, if the whole nation perilh, we
care not fo long as we are gratified in a fatal curiofity ;
fpr onlefs we leeTign* and wonders we will not believe.*
Then 1 tell thee it would have been fatal for your nation;
and the world might have condemned their curious en­
quiries, if they would ruft fuch a hazard as this. &ut
-inny jet every mouth be ftopped, and.every tongue be
fiient; and know how jheje held up their hands foi the
gqgdjof. their king and counti:yy that no fatal judgments
npgpt come by their idle'curiofity. Then who is the
. majii that can condemn them ? And know,it was printed
in. thy writings before,! would fend.three plentiful
h.arvefts for the fake of tfiofe whole hands were lifted up
to me, to fearch out the truth ; .and now for the fake of
thofe whole hands are lifted u p ; for the fake of this na­
tion, they IhaU lee the famine removed from this natipn;
but they (hall lee it in .another nation, to know it is I the
*Lord have fpoken it. Then, with what heaitfui grati­
tude, will they fall down and wotftiip M ii ! they have,
already fell before me in iaiili ; they are deiirous of my
mercies, and not of my judgments; and of my prote&iort
to the nation, that all may give glory, honour, and
** praHc
Digitized by Google
M pniletom ynam e:»ndf io d ie c iK l,r fiv H I% | T h 9
* are worthy to be cellod toib |KM 4 toiling; *
* In iH bcwHemiiitokw the ci^ydi foot isvihblc; hypbcrii|r
an«t ties are iu component parts. It h pleaded that, w
the lifting up of hands, the judgment* of God are averted
from the futitn j but this it a palpable cootradt&ion to the
very tM in e f the miffion, and, thteavowed defiro* a*4
prayers of the believers, Which is the adventofthe M Slai*
ntutn, which (as is declared) cannot take place Without
feeing introduced by moft heavy judgments, ft tegfel
therefore as welllfsve been lakhthatthe lifting up of hands .
was to pfevent odd fet jftdc the Millennium, and ffo frus­
trate the whaife of the mifietu Now ts it pofhblethat the
court could be ignorant of this deceit? and if not ignorant,
why indifferent? why not deleft fo palpable a piece of
hypecrify ? And this hypoctify and incooftftenaV is fttil
kept up and encouraged; for God isInvoked in the chapel
every Sunday and ThUifday to avert his judgments, and
yet the Millennium fo tauch defcred, and fo foon expe&ed,
cannot be brought in* till that day is^come and 'pan, that
fhall burn as an oven, when all that refute to fign the lift
Snd fee leaded {hall be deftroyed* And 1appeal^ Joanna’s
own cooicience, whether her heart accompanies her lips,
When ih
>
<
*praysfor thejudgments of God to oe avertedpted
whrthef fuch prayers are not entirely incohiiitent with her
profei&On ?
To return: The communication foems expreftve of
the joy and gratitude of Joanna's heart for having got fo
well over thathilt of difficulty, the trance ; and it certainly
g»a^ becalled attribute of ptfcife tothe court for itskhtdpar­
tiality and- tegular readtiveis to dii'penfe with miracles,
trances, and all other tapernatural evidences* Noy, n o t ,
(lie brings in tha whole nation at tributatory, as well as her
fell, being proforved by the lifting up of hands from fatal
judgments, which muft without it have been felt* There
is one thing more in the communication that mud not be
palled by. The famine, that was, according to the prophe­
cy, to be m England, was, by the lifting op of handi, re­
moved from England* This was killing* two birds with
Qnt ftonc} it ahfwercd two valuable ends: It re­
moved the believers expectation Of the precW&ed fc-
mine, and thereby wiped the bluih of confufton off die pro­
phet-sface v and then it gave the count he glory of having
procured a very diftinguifiied national bleiling. Hut here
xe m e thing to be dbferved ; The Famine, though
removed
14
Digitized by L . o o Q l e
13
removed from England, was to be in another n tioii;
this is not very consistent either with justice or mercy.
This is like a magistrate pardoning a condemned cri*
minal for the intercession of his friend, and inflicting
Kis punishment on his innocent brother,for the French
are none of Joanna’s mockers. However, the famine
has not taken place neither here nor in France, .where
it was to be, and it is how almost a dead letter. It will
be observed in the communication, that though the
famine was removed from England, yet it was not
then destined to any other place, but Joanna soon
found a place for it, which the reader will find, in
page 9b, to be France. T jie believers, therefore, ever
since the trial, have been looking for a famine in
France, but as yet to no purpose. t
Joanna transferred the famine from England to
France, by observing, she had heard some things con­
cerning the “ tyranny o f Buonaparte, which, if true,
“ the French nation must be in the most enslaved and
<
c degraded state, and may merit the most heavy judg-
M ments; and therefore, the lifting u p 'o f hands in
“ this assembly, for the will o f the Lord to be
“ done, was a sign that the three years famine was
u averted from England to France.” _ ;
So this grand feat o f transferring the famine from
England to France, was performed by the joint efforts
o f the spirit, of the Court, and o f Joanna. .The .spirit
removed it from England by the instrumentality o f
the lifting up o f hands in the court, and Joanna ordered
'it over to France. Joanna, some how or other, have
been a great while in performing her. part o f the bu­
siness; to be sure, tier’s being more o f an executive
nature, requires rather more time, but I think if Jo­
anna was m general a little quicker ki the d spatch
o f public business, as wqll z
>
s a little more punc­
tual to her word,--it would much in her favour.
For whoever reads*Joanna’s .writings with attention,
must see, that although she is very expert in the m
a<-
nufactory of prophecies, she is very slow in-the ex­
ecution.
W e no#, qome to the last time o f lifting up of
B
* Digitized by Google
andg; and though w£ have already taken notice of
very great effects produced by this ceremony, yet they
are very diminutive when compared with what wefrnd
m page 134, which gives an account of so awful,
august, and transcendant an effect, that a volume
would not be too large for its introduction.
The reader will pardon my reluctance to nahfe it,
as I am persuaded the first hearing of it must operate
like an electrical shock, and therefore the mind ought
to be prepared, and, now if the reader is ready, it shall
be named. By the uplifted hands, in page 134, Satin
was cast, and the womhn Was freed ! 1! Thus endetfc
the grand ceremony of lifting up of hands, the fast
effect of which is certainly the most extraordinary
act, the greatest and most memorable that ever was
performed by any human beings. It will certainly be
recorded in the annals of history, and the annals of
fame, and will stand unparalleled in both. Joann*
says, Mrs. Bruce’s children will call her blessed, if so,
what will the people be called who thus lifted up
their hands? Mrs, Bruce assisted but one woman, but
the benefit of this deed extends to all the women that
ever was or ever will be. Mrs. Bruce’s benefit was
but a suit of clothes and a little money; but this was
a deliverance of women out of that dreadful bondage,
into which the disobedience of our first parents had
cast them. The reader will say, perhaps, he thought
women, as well as men, were redeemed by the blood
of Christ. I answer, most people thought the same,
till the contrary was revealed to Joanna by her visit­
ing spirit, who. said to her
“ For man’s transgression I did die,
“ And for them did atone,
" But still the woman’s guilt doth lay
“ Till Satan feels his doom.”
Word to the w ise, page 12.
That is to say “ as 1 paid the ransom for naan, W
Satan must pay the ransom for women; and tlu r fe w
hesays, in the Mtfth page of the book r ffh t trial
14
Digitized by Google
15
“ This must baginthe woman's toOg*$,
<' 44 And this she must believe;
* ; ^Thatfor her ransom here I come,
44 To m^ke her foe to grieve."
' Now it will be recollected, that Satan was cast and
the woman freed at one and the same time, by the
uplifted hands of all present.' But to be a little se*.
rious, if the circumstance will admit of it, for who can
he grave, when, a thing so very ludicrous, gravity it­
self is challenged ?I believe if the Archbishop of C%n-
ieshary was to hear, that women were redeemed by
the lifting up of hands, and the sacrifice of the devil
has Grace would he ready to draw his mouth.
.. W as it required of me to find the strongest evidence
o f mental weakness, that history furnished, I would
produce the circumstance above mentioned. I could
M ve overlooked such weakness (as such) in Joanna,
and like Pomeroy treated it with a mild reproof But
for a company of gentlemen, several of whom were
divines, to sanction such a thing is most contempti­
ble, and ought to be exposeiL~~Claiming the promise
vans ridiculous enough. Dispensing with the trance
was very weak. Transferring the famine from Engw
land to France, was contemptible. But casting of
Batan^nd freeing women from the fall,is beyond every
thing, ind it is not in the power of satyr to do it
Justice.
< What sensible and immediate effect this operation
^baM
i on the two characters, the woman and satan, is
a point that deserves to be enquired into, Joanna’s
writings are reserved and almost silent rather, on the
subject I hope, when her trial comes on, she will
he interrogated on the subject.
I recollect, indeed,that something was said of satan,
Viz. that he knew he was cast, and therefore would
pome down in great wrath, and stir up the people to
come against her. The natural import of which
words is, that a very heavy persecution would imme­
diately take place; but it is very certain that this pro­
phecy, like ipost of the. others, have fallen to the
Digitized by Google
ground, an4 the poorvdevil was never mere belied*
than in this one thing: however, he do’nt mind that*
but laughs in his sleeve; for there is no doubt, but
the lather o f lies is glad to have another child bom
into the world.
The reader probably w ill ask “ what is implied in
satan’s being cast?” I must answer l do not know;*
it cannot be his being chained down, for that is to be
a much more pompous ceremony, ahd it is to be done
by Bazil Bruce : neither can it be what Joanna means
by striking her deadly foe. * >
There do not appear tohe any thing in it but aoniere
ceremony, intended only for the woman’s freedom;
for it is not perceivable that any alteration have taken
place iu| consequence o f it in the devil’s power. *H e
went about before as a ramping and roaring lion, seek*
ing whom he may devour! and so he has done ever
since; and as to the woman’s-being freed from the
fall o f Eve, there hre no visible marks o f it any more
than o f Satan’s being cast. There were some good
women before, and they are not all saints
Fleet-street, for instance, is as much, infested sipce,
as before that tim e; and plays, balls, and masque-
rades has been as much frequented by the. newly-
redeemed, while churches and chapels-have. had no
increase. How far the sisterhood reels the effects o f
their freedom, I knbw not: or whether they expe­
rience a full dominion over the world, the flesh, and
the devil, but lam inclined to think some o f them can
still say with St. Paul. When I would do good; evil id.
present with me; and the goods that I would,; I dp
not; which is a manifest proof that the flesh , still
lusteth against the spirit, so that, the freedom was
not what St. Paul calis the redemption o f the body.
I should be glad to ask Joanna whether she herself
was redeemed by that ceremony, and what degree of.
freedom she has experienced since* that she did not
before? She professed to be more.-than a match for
the devil before^ and as for the purity of her life, she
declares it would bear the strictest scrutiny*. I|er.
obedience is represented as perfect, for th^ spirit tells
16
Digitized by Google
her, “ the marriage o f tfie lamb is come, and Ifls wife
hath made herself ready; and that readiness is perfect
obedience to all the commands o f God.” I f therefore,
Joanna has received any sensible benefit from the cere­
mony, sh© must, since then have been doing works o f
supererogation, as perfect obedience implied that she
did all that was required o f her before. But if my
opinion is asked, I believe she has been doing works
o f supererogation both before and since; for I be«»
lieve, it was never required o f her to prophecy in
the name o f the Lord. I believe it was never required
o f her to seal the people. I believe it was never re­
quired o f her to claim the promise ; nor to cast the
d e v il; nor to add to the scripture; nor to suffer for
man's redemption; nor to fast seven days; nor to
dispute with the power o f darkness seven days;
nor to take up her bed and walk ; nor to fling the Da-
sin and break it against the w all; nor to stamp on the
floor saying it was the fury o f the Lord, making the
house shake, and all that were within it to tremble;
no, nor yet to take off her linen, and walk the room
naked. A ll these, Isay, are in my opinion, .works
o f supererogation, and highly meritorious, and w ill
no doubt (one day) obtain that reward they deserve.
Our saviour says, Matt. vii. 22. Many will say unto
me in that, day, have we not prophecicd in thy name?
and in thy name cast out devils, and in thy. name done
many wonderful works? But Joanna will be able to
say a great deal more than this, Ihus: Have I not pro-
phecied in thy name, and hi thy name cast the devil;
and in thy name sealed the people ; and in thy name
claimed the promise; and in thy name suffered and
receiyed stripes for man’s redemption ; and assisted
in freeing the woman ; and have I not disputed in thy
p&me with the powers of darkness seven days; and in
thy name fasted seven'days, and prayed till my life
< was almost spent? And moreover, Have I not gained
a vast number o f proselytes, and converted even se­
veral of the clergy ? Have I not convinced them o f
the truth o f many things “ hard to be underatoodj
and harder to be believed ?”
» 3
17
Digitized by Google
Thus, as at the judgment seat o f Christ, we shall
be permitted to speak in our owndefence ; Joanna w ill
have much more to say than other people o f her des­
cription. But suppose we should be permitted toplead
what we are, as well, as what we have done ? Then Jo­
anna must have the advantage o f every other mortal.
Then the interrogation may be triumphantly con­
tinued : Am not I the woman prophecied o f in the
revelations, the woman clothed with the sun, having
the moon under my feet? Am not I the bride, the
lamb’s wife ? And am not I the mother in Israel, and
the barren woman prophecied o f in the old testa­
ment ? In a word, Am not I the most distinguished
and exalted creature in the universe? Thus if argu-
inent will be o f any avail Joanna w ill certainly have
a great deal to say. But to return. It was said above
that thedevil knowing he was cast, would come doivn
in great wrath, and stir up the people to come against
Joanna; it may probably be asked what is meant by
his coming down ? This is spoken, to bring it to the
scriptures, in allusion to Revelations, xii. 12. Wo
to the inhabitants o f the earth and o f the sea, fo r the
devil is come down in great wrath, because he knoweth
that he hath but a short time. But there is another rea­
son for this expression, viz. from the devil’s situation,
for Joanna says, his seat is in the moon.
Having now, largely animadverted on the ceremony
bf lifting up the hanas, I shall proceed to deliberate
an another act o f the court o f no less importance, and
that is the canonization o f Joanna’s writings.
Joanna says in page 49 o f Strange Effects o f Faith,
that her writings are an addition to the bible. The.
Court (after the witnesses had been examined, ’their
depositions taken, consultations held thereon, and
the whole business o f the trial gone through and
completed) says as follows :j
Neckinger House, Bermondsey, near London,
Dec. 11,1804.
* “ We,whose names are hereunto subscribed, being
i€ invited by divine coinniand>for seven days, to the
18
Digitized by Google
€
€examination o f Joanna Southcott’s prophecies, do,
for the following reasons, individually and volun­
t a r i l y avow, by our separate signatures, our firm
w belief, that her prophecies and other spiritual com-
** munications emanate wholly and entirely from the
spirit o f the living Lord,” Book o f the Trial, page
133. This is also confirmed by the fifth resolution,
page 79, thus— “ From the considerations o f the
above questions, and the examinations o f Joanna's
** writings, it doth appear to us that she is visited by
“ the spirit o f the living God.” N ow if we consider
that amongst the names subscribed, page 136 and
137 are the names o f several o f the clergy, we fairly
and justly conclude that from these assertions, avow­
als, and resolutions, the writings of Joahna Southcott,
are, as to the church or society o f Joanna and her ad­
herents, properly canonized; that is to say, esta­
blished and confirmed to be o f divine authority,
equal in all respects to the writings o f the old and
new testament, and making with' those, one com­
plete book o f the revealed will o f God. It is very evi­
dent that the bible is considered by this society, to
he (without this union) very imperfect. For it is as­
serted by Joanna, in the preface to her first book,
Strange Effects o f Faith, that the bible is a sealed
book. These are her words “ The word of God is as a
book that is sealed, so that neither the learned nor
“ unlearned can read (that is to say,understand) it;
“ for it wap sealed up in the bosom o f the father, till
** he thought proper to break the seals and reveal it
“ to a woman.” Having then proved, that Joanna’s
writings are, by an act o f this synodical court, can­
onized: I cannot but express myself on its. proceed­
ings, as the court expressed itself on the conduct o f
the clergy, page 79, viz. “ Our censure oh them, can­
not be too strongly marked.”
Whatever blame attached to the clergy, for return­
ing the letters that were sent to them, I am sure a
thousand times more falls upon the conduct o f those
gentlemen, who have thus joined the bible and Joan­
na’s writings together, which are the most heteroge-
Digitized by Google
vetous and discordant. I f the bible was full o f contra**
dictions before, (as Joanna says,) I am sure it is muck
more so n ow ; and such an unnatural union have iri-
volved it infinitely more in difficulty, mystery, and
darkness; which I shall spend a little time in proving/
In the 27th page of the Strange Effects of Faith, wo
have the beginning o f Joanna’s visitation, where the
spirit is represented as accosting her thus: 4
4I no more
4
4 intended thou should go to reprove the people, than
4
4 I intended Abraham should offer up his son Isaac.
441 did it to try thy obedience. N ow will 1 swear unto
4
4 thee, as I did unto Abraham. I will make with thee
4
4an everlasting covenant, and save thee with an ever-
*4lasting salvation. I will reward thy obedience, and
4
4in blessing I will bless thee. And as I kept nothing
*4from Abraham, I will keep nothing from thee. Thou
4
4shalt prophecy in my name, and I wilt bear thee wit­
n e s s . What 1 put in thy mouth, that w ill I do on
4
4the earth.”
Thus she makes the spirit speak in the language o f
scripture, and so artfully contrives the communication,
as to create a parallel between the men o f God, and
herself; and between their writings and her writings.
And this is a sample o f that.cement that she has in­
vented to unite herself and her cunningly-devised fa­
ble to the scriptures of*truth; and this artifice is the
very essence o f deception, and the principle ingredient
in that bait that she employs for the capture o f the
credulous and unwary. But this fraud is easy o f de*
tection to those who are disposed to detect, which (by
the bye) did not seem to be the case with the judges;
&c. o f whom I am writing. 4
4 I no more intended
4
4thou should go to reprove the people, than I intended
4
4 Abraham should offer up Isaac. I did it to try thy
obedience” Because the Lord tried Abraham's
obedience, Joanna’s obedience (forsooth) must he tried
also. She belonged to Mr. Wesley’s society ; she had
been speaking in the class meetings of her having the
spirit of prophecy, but tbe people did not seem co r­
dially to receive itr gave her no encouragement to che*»
. risli such notions, and, as she suspected, thought ra*-
30
Digitized by L.ooole
€h£f contemptuously o f her on account o f it. Con­
tending thoughts therefore arose in her mind as to
what mode of proceeding would be most conducive to
her plan. She thought first, she had best leave the so­
ciety ; then a stronger thought came and told her to
?
o and contend with them. This she pretends wak the
oice o f the spirit and as it was a great trial to4ier to
go to class meeting again, she compares it to the Lord’s
commanding Abraham td offer up his sdn Isaac for a
burnt offering. After this her resolution o f going to
contend ivith the class, failed; but to prevent its being
considered an act o f disobedience, shepretends tohave
a countermand from the I ord,- such} as Abraham had
when he was about to slay his son, thus: •• I no more
■
•
‘ intended thou should go to reprove the people,than I
*• intended Abraham should offer up his son Isaac. I •
•* did it to try thy obedience.” again, “ Now w ill I
“ swear unto thee as I did unto Abraham. I will make
“ with thee an everlasting covenant, and save thee with
“ an everlasting salvation.” T o this Joanna, “ When
“ these words came to me, my soul was troubled in
“ the dust before God, and I began to cry out, what
“ am I, or what is my father’s house that thou hast
•
“ thud honoured me,unworthy wretch as I am? M y
“ *past life makes me ashamed o f myself. T hese words
“ came to me, 1 will reward thy obedience; and iik
“ blessing I will bless thee. And as I kept nothing from
r‘ Abraham, I will keep nothing from thee. ThoU
“ shalt prophecy in my name; and what I put in thy
“ mouth, that will I do upon the earth.”
This was what Joanna calls the beginning of the
•powerful visitation o f the Lord to her. And which fot #
that reason, I call the beginning o f her taking the*
name o f the Lord in vain, in saying the Lord saith,
when he hath not spoken. I call it also the beginning
•of a dreadful delusion, that will probably end in the
author’s temporal if not eternal disgrace. H ow far
«he was really deceived in this beginning, I cannot de­
termine, nor whether she really thought the impres­
sions o f her mind were o f the operation o f the Holy
•Ghost; but this I know, that she has haji convincing
$i
Digitized by Google
proofstmm. thatthey were*at; sad she m
ust bau*
beenqoavincedforaloag tim
epast,.thattbs im
pces-
- sions (qc whatever else they may ha catted) she thee
had, wore not from the Lord; because many of the
things that she predicted have never come to pass nor
ever can; because the time fixed is expired, and there­
fore I.beiieve her to he a base impostor. I hove op­
pressed ray uncertainty as to the honesty of hearinten­
tions at her first setting out; buf it must be owned that
a mind,jealous as it ought to be of delusion, cannot
help discovering striking marks of imposture in the
first startingoff. For instance, ope would conclude
from, the narrative, that the Lord had appealed to her
as he did to Abraham, and talked with her by an aw*
dable voice as be did to him, and it is evident she
jwished every one to think so; and this mode of ex­
pression (and- doubtless) for the same design is carried'
« & through her writings, in consequence of which it
Was generally .understood, that the spirit’s hahit o f
speaking to her was by an-audible voice, till 1 myself
caused her to be interrogated on the subject, when she.
owned that speaking by aa audible voice was not the
manner of the spirit*a communication; which I have
more particulsrly taken notice of in ray Friendly Ad­
dress to the followers of Joanna Southcotb. T h k -i
- pay then must be done with a view to deceive, trad it
« f so glaring that a man must shut his eyes that do not
see it fn very many places she expressly says, she is
answered as man answereth man, and what could she
say more if she really intended to deceive ? Another
-convincing proof to me of her imposture is her quibble
•bout her father’s death ; and that shifting ana equi­
vocating concerning the trance is another; and the
.whole of her proceedings from first to last is another.
The spirit in the narrative above cited tells Joanna that
as be Kept nothing from Abraham he would keep no­
thing from her. She must be more conversant with
Abraham’s history than I am, to prove that the Lord
kept nothing from him, And she must do a great
deal more yet than ever she has done, to prove that
the Lord keeps nothing from her.. And as a bare inn-
Digitized by Google
pression on the mind {supposing it so to be) could faw­
nish no foundation for saying it was so, I set it down*
as a presumptions taking the name of God to vain.
I shall now return to the resolutions of the court, as*
mentioned above, vis.— that it is the firm belief ofJ
the'
court, that the prophecies and other spiritual commu­
nications of Joanna Southeott, emanatewholly arid en­
tirely from the spirit of the living Lord. >
This Resolution is of greater Importance than aJ
'bare reading of it will evince. Look at it a little*
and it will prove to be o f the greatest moment. Eter-
nry, and Immortality, are words o f vast Import,-
all the Substance of these is incorporated with the
Resolution. I cannot too often repeat the words of
the Rev.Mr.Foley— viz. “ ft is the cause of the Most
<fHigh God; or it is the Cause of Error and Del u-
“ sion,* and “ If it should prove to be a Delusioni
** thousands and tens of thousands will be ruined.
Therefore such a Revolution ought not to have been
determined without the most mature deliberation,
and greatest Caution. Eternal Happiness* and Eter­
nal Miseiy, are things not to be trifled with, nor
treated with indifference. . v
I shall not think I have done Justice to a Resolu­
tion of such Importance as this is of, without saying
something more about it. *
~ Let it be observed, It contains the Confession of the
Faith of forty-eight Gentlemen, that have taken upon
themselves to settle a most momentous Concern:
yea,[according to their ownConfessioul ~ One ofthe
* first importance that ever came before Mankind.*
This faith is a faith of no private interpretation, that
concerns only Joanna ana themselves. It isa faith,
anrd a confession, in which their fellow creatures are
interested. In which the public are interested, in
which the nation is interested, m which the httmah
race is interested. For if it is of God it i* fa ta l not
to believe it. ** I f it should prove a delusion, thou-
4
4sands and tens of thousands will be ruined1
* not as
Joanna says * {fit should prove a delusion, no blame
can felltm toerhead or the bead of believers.
Digitized by Google
If then this resolution o f the court is o f so much
importance ; there pught to have existed in the au­
thors o f it, a qualification to give it birth; otherwise
it was premature, and ought to be condemned. I
shall taxe the liberty therefore to enquire, whether,
they possessed this qualification or not.
In the first place then, according to Joanna, they,
could not be qualified with, out having an extraordi­
nary, degree o f wisdom, for the purpose o f judging so
weighty a cause. She says the spirit told her, that it
was necessary for Mr. Pomroy (ip order to be her
judge) to have more wisdom than she herself, and
that he should have five talents; andahe acknow­
ledges ^lso that before this endowment, he was a very
wise man. . From these assertions then, we infer that
these gentletnen were not duly qualified for the ex-,
alted office o f j judging this “ most momentouscause,”
unless a very great degree o f wisdom was added to.
what they badbefore. Pomeroy had five talents added
to that degree, that prior to this addition distinguish­
ed him from other men, and yet all was not enough ;
he did not it seems execute his office right at last: how
great a degree of wisdofn then, ought to have been
bestowed on these menj in order to render them pro­
perly qualified fo r,this *high office; and for the esta­
blishment o f a resolution, that so much effects the
flumanrace ? N ow the question is, was this wisdom
given thetny or was it not ? That it was given toPome-
roy, Joaqna herself testifies,, but she no where (as t
know, of) bears this testimony o f these gentlemen. W e
therefore rationallycohclude.thby had it not. Besides,
(unless my wisdom is much .under the standard o f
common sense) they manifested by their conduct that
they had it not; in their precipitate lifting up their
hands to dispense w ith’ .fhe trance. Every one w ill
have it, and po one <jan deny it, that precipitancy in
any weighty concern, is a great folly. , Apd no man
can give any proof o f his wisdopi, but by deliberate
deterpiinations^\e^pecialiy in matters o f mompntand
consequence. ‘ W hat must we think then o f these gen­
tlemen, the judges, the. jury > and four-and-twenty
Digitized by Google
elders when w e hear them declare, and that with the
.warmth o f enthusiasm* “ A fter the reading o f this
eommunicatioi) the assembly “ Instantly stood up and
with uplifted hands one and all cried .out, “ The. vv^li
o f the Lord be done.” Which was the same as saying;
“ the w ill o f Joanna be done; let the trance be dispen­
sed with. This I am constrained to consider #as the
result o f that wisdom less in its degree .(instead o f
more) than what is pommoniy possest.^ I had alpiopt
said preternatural. It is evident then that these gen­
tlemen were not in possession o f that superlative de^
gree o f wisdom, that according lo Joanna, was indis-
.pensably necessary for the judging her. cause;; ajutJ'
therefore cannot be considered as duly qualified. .
. Again secondly. In order tp conclude on so moi*
.mentous a resolution, it was necessary they should
individually have read the writings although, both
those that were in print and tho?e that were not;
This is not necessary, in order to believe as an indi-r
vidiial: but to make a confession of faith, as the resulj;
o f a thorough investigation, for the use'of the whole
Jiuman race; it cannot be dispensed with.. It'watf
also further necessaiy that a mature deliberation oy
discussion should have taken place.
N ow l am much inclined to believe, that the eourf
was very deficient both in reading and .deliberation;
xmd iny reason is because there was not time. The*
whole o f the seven days seems to have been take#
up other matters, and this i#oat essential part to­
tallyneglected.
. Instead of neglecting this necessary part, it ought.
to Jiave been performed with more assiduity, linnness,
and resolution, than any other part of the business ;
for this neglected, whatever elsejwas done cpuld have
no good effect, but to deceive the unwary by an os­
tentatious trial, that bad nothing of/a trial in it but thp
name.
A formal deliberation ought to have tbken place and
the whole of it committed to writing, and thence to
the press, that the public might tie ebhyinced it was
atrial, and uqt a fijtroe. , '
/ 'The,d(el,iberatibn ought to have embraced' every
filing pct-ibe writings that appeared any way^doubjt-
*33
Digitized by Google
ful or mysterious, for though the forty-eight gentle-*
men firmly believed in the mission, yet I should sup-
E>se that at their first enquiring into it, they must
ive met with some things that they could not easily
get over, (unless they were all as precipitate in their
first receiving it as they were in dispensing with'the
trance, that is instantly embracing it without any in­
vestigation) and therefore every thing that at that
time operated as an obstacle' ought to -have., beeti
brought forward and thoroughly discussed. Joanna
herself says, that in her writing are many things hard
to bemnderstood, and harder to be believed; how defi­
cient then must these men have been in the execu­
tion Ofth^ir business, not to have deliberated on those
things, in order to facilitate their reception 1Such a de­
liberation ought to have taken place. Eyery thing ob-
; jectionable should have been brought forward and
; cleared up ; and a full and. particular account o f the
Wame presented to the public. But instead of this, the
court thinks it enough barely to say—u W e, whose
^ names are. hereunto subscribed, heing invited by
4
€divine command, for seven days, to the examination
^ o f Joanna SouthcotCs prophecies, doi for the fol-
*'* V
- lowing reasons, individually and voluntarily avow,
** by our separate ^igtotures, onr firm belief that her
*- ** propheci^ s rfncl other spiritual communications, ema-
*
* ** nate whqlly and entirely from the‘spirit of the living
* The forty eight Gentlemen assert, they were in-
' Vited by divine command, .for seven days, to the ex-
» aminatiqn ci* Joanna Southcott's prophecies. It m ight
"easily be known how faithfully they have performed the
business o f their high vocation. There were at that
time several prophecies, which, if honestly used, must
infallibly have condemned their authorfor an imposter.
One was concerning the death o f her father, w hich
the court knew very, w.elLhad absolutely failed, which
is not even denied,yea, which 'Joanna herself confesses.
See Mrs. Taylor’s deposition, page 65 o f tfiO book o f
the trial. 1
4 ~ ^ 1: r
. . : M ?
. A n'Ojtjier prophecy $hat cr*tirely Coiiderfm$ Jier,4
'(e x ­
cept with those people who .ore determined that* n o-
ffaing shall do it) is fou&d in ‘page t£s 6f the Strange
Digitized by Google
• 9 ?
Effects o f Faith. " I t is said to,m e the Lord will
“ begin his strange work with a new century, and go
** Qn in such a manner to fulfil my pr6phecies, that in
*• three years the major part of our land will be con-
vinced the Lord hath spoken by me.”
. I f this prophecy had' been fulfilled when the three:
years were up* the trial had not taken place/; but so
ipr from the major part o f the people receivingJoanna
as a prophetess, it cannot be supposed; that the thour
sandth part did. What use then, in the name of.
truth, did thesejudges make' o f these prophecies ?
Evidently none at all. In the name o f Goa then,. I
declare, that if they were invited to exajnine into Jo-,
anna’s prophecies, they very unfaithfully discharged
their duty, not so much as taking any notice o f such,
prophecies as were against the cause, and acting with
the greatest paftiaiity towards Joannh,' but against,
God, against the truth, against the believers, and the
public at large ; and also that they were neither by
deliberation, examination,superlative wisdom, nor im­
partial conduct,* quali fied to closes, their proceedings
with that resolution, that Joanna Soatbcott’s prophe- .
cies and other communications ernanate wholly and *
entirely'froin the spirit o f the living Lord.
. A& tothe communications alluded to, they are Tull
o f absurdity and nonsense, blasphemy and presuihp- ■
tion, lies and contradictions. They rob,the Deity o f
all his divine attributes. They raise their real author
to the pinnacle o f pride, and very much debase their
pretended author,Jesus Christ. Had 1 room to brihg'it
forward, I could raise a blush u^on any man’s face to -
see wjiat despicable stuff is ascribed t6 the spirit o f
the living Lord.
I shall- now conduct the reader’s attention to page .
114 o f the trial. “ Here,(the historian says,) she em-
" phatically declared that she must stand or fall by the
" voice of this assembly, bv the judgment now pass'd
concerning her misssion. Here we find that Jo­
anna’s. fate, and the fate o f her mission, depended en­
tirely on the decision o f the Court. The court, on
the other hand depended wholly on Joanna’s Ve­
racity.; for there were no other documents to proceed
upon but Joanna’s assertions.’ Miracles there were
• c g
Digitized by Google
<
z
r
none. The trance she had wriggled hetself out <5f.
And the prophecies, though some had been fulfilled,
yet others had hot, and therefore they furnished no
criterion. This being the case then, the court sup­
ported Joanna, and Joanna supported the court. T h e
court depended on Joanna, and Joanna depended on
the court. The court led Joanna and Joanna led the
court. Thus, the blind led the blind, and both fell
into the ditch 11! Joknna deceived her judges by as­
suring them the spirit spoke to her as. man an&wereth
man, and she was confident she was led by the spirit
o f God, arid that her mission would be proved by her
being in a trance, and many other things. And the*
eourt deceived Joanna in telling her that her prophe­
cies ^and communications emanate from the spirit o f
the living Lord, when scripture and facts testify the
contrary. *
But has Joanna thrown the whole weight o f her*
mission on the decision o f the court ? Then what a
Weight o f responsibility do the court stand under!'
Responsible to God, responsible to Joanna, responsi­
ble to the believers, and also to the public. May God
alarm their consciences, and open their eyes to see
their dreadful situation ! This is no fiction, it is a re -1
rility; and a strict account will mOst assuredly be de-
riaanded both Of Joanna and her judges. It is riot; and
I appeal to the searcher o f hearts to witness m y since-
. ri|y. It is notbecauseI wish either Joannaor herjudges'
, any harm that I thus write, but that they may bO con­
vinced o f their danger, and to prevent what I am cer­
tain is a delusion, from spreading any farther. As for
any enmity or malice towards Joanna or any o f her
followers, I call Heaven to witness that I have none/
Nevertheless, for the cause of God, of truth, and im­
mortal souls, I think it my duty to expose imposture
and delusion to the very utmos'. though I do much
violence to my feelings in so doing, which every obe'
knows that knows my heart. T o shrink from duty
because it is unpleasant, is what both God and mam
forbids. T o omit a duty, be it never .so irksome, »
to commit a crime. Though to afflict our fellow crea­
tures is against our nature ;“ yetc©mmisserati'OHlto the
Digitized by Google
m
**wi<&edd&~cnmltyrtQ the just* and Fie who spares hin*
f* is a just accomplice-in all. his crimes.”
Tp conclude.
Out qf what have been said, there arises the fol-
lowing charges against the twelve judges, the jury,
and fpur-and-twenty elders.
First, the usurpation of an office they had no right
to, and for which (even according to their own unde­
niable sentiments) they were not qualified ; because
they were not possessed of that superlative-degree of
wisdom, that according to Joanna, was necessary lor
such an"undertaking.
Secondly, they are chargeable with supporting a
cause that God has not supported. T o support a cause
that we aire under iip moral obligation to support, is
>
*
crimihah W e are under no moral obligation to sup­
port any cause that God has nonsupported by an infaU
I.ible sign. God has not supported the cause of Joanna,
by any infallible sign; we have nothing but her, own
testimony.
Otir Saviour says, John, v. 3T. I f I bear witnessv f
myself, my witness is.not true, therefore Joanna’s tes­
timony of'h erself is not-sufficient. Again, verse 56',
The same works that I do bear witness o f me that'the
fettled hathsehtm e. -A nd again-, The works that
Id o in my Fathers name, bear tvifyvess of me. And
again, verse 38. I f I do not the works of my Father,
believe me not The working, miracles, is the test that
Cfcxl has witnessed every important mission by, since
the creation. The fultilment-of prophecies,' is a*test
for inferior missions; but if one prophecy fails,, that
test proves the prophet to be a false prophet, accord-*
ing to Deut xviii. 22. Joanna worlds no miracles,, her
. prophecies have failed ; and.as lor the trance, though
’ she proposed it herself, she tricked fclie court out o f it*
H er mission therefore, is without any support from.*
Cod whatever. •
.
Thirdly,the court is chargeable withascribinglies to
Hite spirit of the living Lord^. For though the time was
H&b then expired mentioned in all those prophecies ^
feaVe* brought fenwaitd in idy animyady^r^ipn^rof jpan*
prophecies,, yeti at the tbpe- of the trial
sam any o f the that 3 * 4 w evk
c 3
Digitized by Google
dently failed as to flash conviction in every honest'
mind, and impartial lover of troth.
The many falsities that have issued from Joanna’*
pen concerning the death o f her father, is almost
enough to make one’s hair stand erect. W e •have a
full account of it in Divine and Spiritual Letters of
Prophecy. In page 19 and 30, Joanna gives the Rev.
Mr. Foley an account of her. father’s illness, in 1799*
One night Joanna and several others watched with
him, all expecting his death before-the morning. In
the morning Joanna took her pen, and the spirit told
her he would shew her in a dream of his death, which
she relates as follows, “ I was shewed it in a length
“ of chain that he was in, which lasted through a
“ large field from one gate to another, and then the
u chain pulled back. 1 told it my sister, and she
* asked if the length of chain lasted a month, as w >
“ judged him dying every day for some weeks : her
* words were answered me in the following manner—
“ Oqe month thy sister doth allow, before 'shejudged the
end; '
“ Qne month you’ll see your destin/ what will befall the
land*
> Observe, the spirit said to her just before, “ as J
compared thy father to the nation in his life, sol shall
in his death/' The answer therefore that the spirit
gave Joanna to her sister’s question, signifies that the
father would die in one month. So Joanna understood
it, as you will find if you read on. “ I then judged
** from my writings my father must die that month,
* and that I should then see extraordinary events fall
u on the nation, but finding myself deceived, I began to
•* sink in despair, and began to be jealous that I was
* led by a wrong Spirit,, and determined in t
my heart,
1
4to bum all my writings through unbelief/* Here is
(to speak plain) a lie, either from Joanna or the spirit,
So plain, as to admit of no dispute. Joanna imputes
it to the spirit to save herself, but she gains very little
by this, for if the spirit is a lying spirit, what becomes
Of she and her mission ? But the same page, viz. 30,
convinces us toaf a lying spirit is not satisfied with
having told one fej we have there an account of
30
Digitized by Google
> S I
several. After it was proved that the spirit had de­
ceived Joanna in saying in mystic, though determinate
language, that her father would' die in one month, the
lying'spirit told her as follows ; 4
4The following year,
“ 1800, it was said to me if he died by the length o f
4
4 chain, as I supposed he would die at the same time
4
4 be was taken ill the year before, which was the 13th
•4of July, but if he did outlive the time, thejnystery
4
4is great that lies behind, for then he will live till
St. Swithin’s day, and then the weather all will
4
4see, will follow in such floods of rain that it may
4
4hurt every grain. Thus I understood my father
4
4would die last year, but finding he did hot, and St.
“ Swithi n’s day come without min, the deepest des-
r< pair took possession of my heart. I began to medi-
4
4tate on tne thousand truths chat were in my writ-
wrings, how it wefe possible so many truths should be
4
4in them, and not all be true; I thought from God,
4
4every word must be true.” Here are two more fal­
sities, of which either Joanna or the spirit is the au­
thor. The one i9, that the chain in the dream, which
before, was one mqitto long was now twelve months,
and that the old gemlemanwoilld die on the !3tb of
July, 1800, being just one year from the time he was
taken ill, this was one lie; and another was in saying,
if he did not die then, he would. iiy$ till St Swithin s
day, signifying that he would die then ; and another
wasiuisay ing, that such floods of ram would then fol­
low, as to hurt all the grain. Thus we have an $c-
count in the same page of four of five lies, which even
Joanna herself acknowledges to be so, only she do not
call them by that name,, but the dreadful effect they
had on her mind, evinces, that she had no other name
to give them. W e have already seen three different
periods successively fixed for the death of Joanna's
father, viz. August 13th, 1799. July 13,1800, and St.
Swithin’s day. Now if we turn back to page 18, we
•hall find another date that was fixed, viz. §2d o f Sep­
tember, it is not said in that page wbat year it was to
be, but by consulting a few letters tb^twassent .firom
Joanna to different persons abput ,fe ,^ tt^ en4 9*
August, and in September,* 1801, m M i t yfas to be
ithgt year; and thU is cci^irmed in a ife i^ ^ t h e Revf
Digitized by Google
Stanhope Bruce, page 34, where Joanna,
self 'deceived a fourth time, concerning her father s*
death, is again full of trouble and despair, and event
wishing for death. T im furnishes ample testimony?
that the charge is just, and which I could support by*
collecting a vast number more. Theprophecy in page
128 o f Strange Effects o f Faith is evidently a lie, there*
Joanna says : “ It is said to mei the Lord will begin*
** his strange work in the new century,, and go on in*
** such d dranner to fulfil my prophecies, that in. three?
years the major part of our laud w ill be convinced1
** the Lord hath spoken by mc>n N ow I ask, was it?
said so to Joanna or was it not ? For it either was or*
was not. I f she was told so,. then the spirit told
Ilf she was not told so, then slie told a lie herself; And*
if the spirit that visits her is the spirit o f Godasshe?
days, her saying so, is blasphemy against the Italy*
Ghost.
* The prophecy also, page 174 of Strange Effecfcs ofV
Faith* concerning the trial,is-.full o f lies the most no*
Various. According to the prediction,•the trial waste*
have been a rflost awful one, botfe to Joanna andrtho
believers ; yet there was n oth in gs it but ayhat. was
childish, laughable, silly, and contemptible. I t was ta
have been a trial full of contention and opposition ;
but diametrically contrary to this,alb was peace, unity,*
dnd concord. It was to have been marked with a
trance, but no. trance was there. The prophecy there*
fore is nothing but a notorious lie, and all these iiei aid
fathered on the spirit of the livingLord,from whom Jo»
antra’s prophecies and other comm unications, after an
investigation o f seven days, are believed to emanates
W hile I thu& substantiate my charges against1the
court, I cannot express my feelings upon .reflecting oil
the depravity o f Joanna’s mind, and the awfulness o f
her situation. I have juSt been reading in the 18tii
jiage o f divine and spiritual letters o f Prophecy, the
prophecy Joanna published Of her father s death ;
that he would die before the 29d of Sep* and also o f
other things that was giveivher afcthe same tim e,J
vizi
that her sister and she should meet afc the funeral#
that her sister would be pricked to the heart, andsayv
Godand^istcF I both denied Thi$ \i0*
3 *
Digitized by Google
anna says) I was ordered to seal up, apd put. into the
hands o£: Mr. Pomeroy, till the time was expired"
In page 20, we find Mr. Pomeroy urging Joanna to
try the spirit by which she is visited* Joanna, an­
swers him " The Lord knoweth what I have put inty
“ your hands as well as I do, and they cannot come
u true without him; and to these signs I w ill trust,
“ I f they come true as the former have, all the world
.shall not persuade me theLord would ever let them
“ come true to strengthen my hands if it was not o f
4t God. Mr, Pomeroy answered. The Lord knows’ *
1 “ what you say as well as what you have written, and
<
-
<to these'.'signs'you and I must trust A few days*
“ after, I received a letter from Mr. Turner, o f Leeds,
“ which greatly strengthened my faith, as he wrote as
v i f he knew the whole. I then wrote my fixed reso-
“ fution, and read it to my friends. I shall give you a *
* few o f the words,as the issue o f all things are in the.
“ hands o f *the Lord, and he knows the signs set be-
“ fore me, and put into the hands o f his ministers* I
now call heaven and earth to witness for me, and
“ against me ; and to witness for me,if the signs come
“ true, that it is of God ; but if they come not .true*
“ I call all tp witness against me if I persevere any
^farther. I was answered, Thou hast spoken, and I will an-
4
f swer. If the signs set before the^ come true, Heaven
*
.*and Earth is witness for thee/'
- This account is contained in two of Joanna’s letters; one
to the Rev. Stanhope Bruce, dated Exeter, Aug. 23, 1801.
The.other'to Basil Bruce, dated Exeter, August 24, 1801.
The time fixed for the signs and prophecies was the 22d of
September ensuing, but mark the disaster ! The awful period
arrived, but the events predicted, still remained in the womb
o f uncertainty ! Death paid his visits to great numbers, but
not to the old man. bisters met at funerals, but no funeral
meeting between Joanna and iier sistei^ as predicted ; and
Joanna was disappointed of the pleasure of her sister’s re­
morse, for having denied,both God and her sister.
. Ijlerc the reader bannot help recollecting the solemn en-
' gagement with Heaven and Earth, to persevere no further,
if these things did not take place at the time appointed : and
it is well known that they did hot, for the father lived till the
12th of January; 1802: who then can forbear to expose a
person that can thus run from tlie most solemn engagement,
‘
4ttd to patch up the most sordid and contemptible, and even
blasphemous reasons for so doing? Reasons, that]instead of
1 * ■ ■ Digitized by [ l 1
.
33
' . S4
ffccbncilingany perrfOns to the acVought’ tb inspire them
with indignation, being in themselves blasphemy against tbe
Son of God, and aninsult to.common sense.
- Fourthly. * The court is chargeable -with chiWish pre-r
sumption, in casting Satart. It is presumptions, because it is.
God’s prerogative only tp cast Satan; and it is childish', be-*
cause being far beneath a farce perfomied by men and wo­
men, it is more like childrens* play than any thing else.
Fifthly.; Tilt court, is ^chargeable with unparalleled pre-
sumption,in pretending to free the Woman from the fall of
Aflamt ;
Sixthly. The court*is chatgeable^titti extreme weakness1
^ helping the w o ^ n to claim the promise*
Seventhly. •The court is-chargeable With duplicity in dis-
#pensin£ with’the trance; anditis surmised,. that the gentle-*
men in so doing; acted unde^ the improper influence of that*
artful mehace/ via. Thattheir names should be taken downy
^nd they*con^der^ asopposejrs^’f , .
Eighth; * Tb^ctaubi*; ch%^ahls .iidth.attribulixig/tto the,
inspiration of God, what He, whom Joanna ,b$9 iicknoWv
lodged as her proper Judges has called nonsense. ^ .
Ninth., Theicourt is chargeable with judging partially^
and without due deliberation. It is easy to conceive, that
so pompous and ceremonious a confession of faith as Was
made by the court, without a critical dispUssion, and publish­
ing ilie samp*must be productive of great mischief; because*
of the iiifluenco that such a confession must Have on the uh*
thinking and credulous. . There are people, who are afraid 4o*
see with tlieir own eyes, and Hear with their own ears. Others,
there are, Who think there is ho occasion for their investiga­
tion, when persons, better capacitated have done it for them.'
Both these classes are sure to fall a sicrificeto this corrupt
influence.
Tenth. The court is chargeable with pronouncing those
books of divine authority, that are nidtiifestly contrary tO»
the bible, to reason, arid to common sense.
Eleventh. The court is chargeable’with confirming a de-*
luded woman ih her. delusion, and giving the greatest sane-*
tion and support to imposture.
These charges are the sum and substance of the preceding*
pages, which I have been led to write from an alarming con­
viction of its dangerous-tendency.*
Having now finished my book, I Shall present it, rough as-
it is, to an impartial public, who writ judge between me* and -
the gentlemen whom I have tjie misfortune to oppose. -
O f these gentlemen, I know but very few. Those*! know,
I respect, [setting aside the matter in hand,\ and what with.
Digitized by Google
« £
'this-, and my disuicKnatioa t* quarrel I-can truly say, that in
Writing as l do, I take up my cross* But what then h.I yyouldt
do the same, was every thing V value in life at stake. Fop
tvhat says the lip pf truth? u that loveth father or mother
more than me, is not worthy of die : and Jte that loveth sod or
daughter more than me, is not worthy of met and he that
taketh not up his cross and falldweth me, is not worthy of me*
He that findeth his life, shall lose it* Mat. x. 37, 38, 39.
Therefore, >vas even life itself at* stake, I trust I should
not cowardly abandon the cause in whicli I have embarked.
Nevertheless, if the men against whom I write, will come
forward, and in a manly and rational manner justify their
conduct, and prove me in an error: I pledge myself* publicly
to acknowledge my fault, and declare mySelf ready to make
every concession. The press is the glory of truth, her rod,
and her staff, and the boast of all her friends. When I en­
tered the field against Joanna, the delusion was making hasty
strides. By the press, and the liberty thereof, I have, in the
hame of the Lord of Hosts, lifted up a standard against it ;
and I believe I have, in spme degree, arrested its^progress.
P y the press, facts are proclaimed on the house top* and ar?
gument, the best of weapons, displays its-energy.
• If Joanna and her followers should find themselves offended at my pro*
ccedings, I advfee, for their consolation, to swallow the pill They give to
others, when they tell them, I am only fulfillingThe prophecies,and there­
by giving the strongest supportto the cause. ^Fhey willalso recollect what
Was said at the trial, viz.— The Devil knowing he was cast, would come
* down in great wrath. For to a certainty they will-attribute my opposition
to the influen.eeofthe devil: they will recollect I say, it was announced that
he would comedown ingreatwrath,knowing that histime was short. Now
1
f histime was short then,itmustbe shorternow; and if hiswrath arose from
bis knowledge his time being short, it must now be Hicreaseddn propor­
tion as hislime, is shorter, and therefore, they ought notto be nroved at his
fury To be sure, he has been a great while in coming; but we know not
how long .it may take for.a spirit to-travel from the moon to this world.
Joanna says it is a six day’sjotirriey from earih to heaven. Now supposing
it to be as far from here to the moon, then it* must take six days for his
opake majesty to perform thejourney; and again,'if each of those days
Should signify a year, then it must take him six years, and this brings it
exactly tight, as it isja>t stx yea s from 1804, to 181
Of the present year.
This brings to my blind what Joanna says her mother told her, when she
appeared to her, viz.— That ^he Lotd was removed from his throne, sig~
, cifying to come into this world to introduce the Millenium. If any other
person had said so, but oue “ whose life would bear the strictest scrutiny,’*
I should have thought it a lie, aud«even now 1 believe it to be an untruth,
because the Lofd has not yet made his appearance, neither has his arrival
been announced, and I cannot think the Lord can be so long coming a six
day’sjourney. But I suppose (as the words are in the biblej this is “ to
bring it to the scripture” like the mistake- about the father’s death. Whe­
ther it is justifiablyto utto*falsehoods,-to bring “ a cunningly devised fa­
ble” scriptures : I leave the reader to judge; t aui fully persuaded
this is an untruth; that Joanna's mother never told her the Lord was re-
Digitizecfby C j O O ^ I C
♦
m
oved fro
mh
isthrone; tire natureof fhe circum
stance entirelyrefutes
it. I haveon
eobservation m
ore too
btru
de on thereader, andthen, if
nothing m
ofeth
row
s inaclaim
, I shall put u
pm
y pen
. I have been
asked, w
hy 1 havesom
u
ch against Joannaan
d
, h
er religionm
o
re than
against oth
ersectsan
dparties? To w
h
ich Iansw
erJoannaa
n
<
$h
er fol­
low
erscannotw
ithany propriety b
ecalled asect of C
h
ristian
s. Because
Joanna’s m
issio
n
, iftrue, is quitean
e
wdispen
sation, andn
ota branch
of theCh
ristian
. The K
ev. M
r. Foley acknow
ledges th
is in saying, he
kn
ow
sit tobeoneafthe firstim
portancethatevercam
e b
efo
rem
ankind,
andsecon
donlytothatofou
r L
ordw
h
enh
ew
astried at Pilate’sb
a
r. B
e-*
sid
es, it is plainlyrepresen
tedinthe book w
hat m
annerof com
m
unica­
tion
sarethese, page20, 21, a
sanewcovenant, w
h
ichth
ereforem
ust be
acknow
ledgedto be an
ewdispen
sation
, and notabranchoftheChristian
religio
n
. Indeeditisexpresslycalled, inthe pagesjustm
entioned, an
ew
covenant, andthe old is declaredto b
e abolish
ed, w
h
ichold can b
e no
otherthantheC
h
ristiancovenant,w
hichSt. Paulcalls th
esewcovenant.
H
eb.viii, inoppositionto theM
osaic covenant,w
hich h
e calls old. By
th
esam
e ru
le Joannaassertin
gthe Lord hasm
adea newcovenant w
d
th
h
er, m
akestheC
h
ristiancovenant old, andthereby sh
eexcludes herself
fromtheC
h
ristianchurch. Andindeed,allth
rou
ghh
erw
ritin
gsh
erm
issio
n
is setfortha
6quitean
ewthing. Inthe gospel, C
hrist isthegrandob
ject,
ofadm
irationandexaltation,andthe Apostlesays w
e preachC
h
rist. In
Joanna’sw
ritin
gsthe w
om
an is thatobject, and herpreach
ersm
ay say,
w
ithequ
alpropriety, « w
epreachJoamu!” ThechurchofC
hristiscom
­
posed-of thed
ifferen
tsectsofC
h
ristian
s fromthew
h
oleof w
hichJoanna
liasseparatedh
erself, by excludingthemfromthepresence of Cod, and
consequentlyfro
msh
eandherpeople. See W
arningtotheW
orld, page
17. Anda
s Joanna h
asexcluded herselffro
mthecom
m
u
n
ionofSaints,
sosh
eisexpelledthe chu
rchby the w
o
rdofG
od, fortheLord declares,
Fzekiel,xiii, 9
. thatsu
chsh
all n
ot b
einth
e A
ssem
bly of h
ispeople. For
th
esereaso
n
sthen, Iamm
oreagainstJoanna, than(w
hatiscalled) other
sectsof Christians, w
ithw
hom
,evenw
ithall'their d
ifferen
terrors, Icon­
sider afalse prophet/ not fit to be com
pared. Thus far I have ad­
vancedagainst W
h
a
tappearsto m
etob
eadelu
sion; and I believe the
readertllin
k
s Iaminearnest; yet I h
ave n
ot said halfofw
hat I w
ishto
say,n
orof w
hat Iintendtosay. If Iamthought to b
qdoingw
rong, Jo­
annah
av&inh
erconnection m
en of parts and great abilities; these, U
theyhavetru
^
lion theirside, m
ight soondestroythe feeble effo
rts of a
m
echanic, labouringunderm
anydisadvantages, besidesthatgreatest of
all, viz. thebein
g inaw
rongcause, fo
r if Joanna is right, 1 m
ust be
wroug; inw
h
ich easeIsay, it m
ust b
e veryeasy fo
rth
oselearned gen­
tlem
entoput astoptom
yproceedin
gs, I u
se n
o w
eaponin m
y oppo­
sitionbutthestatem
ent offacts, an
dfairargum
ent. Theseappear to
.tn
e
toJ
t
>
en
ow
T
ayinconsistent w
ith that freedomof sentim
ent w
h
ich every
m
anhas arighttoenjoy, andvrh
ichIshallth
ereforeu
se byH
eaven’sper­
m
issio
ntillDELUSIONfalls tothe ground.
F I N I S .
Loudo*Printed b j i ohn Deau, 51, WarUpur^treet, Soho.
