{"name":"Ecce Homo","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1813__anonymous___ecce_homo_.pdf","mytitle":"Ecce Homo","mylang":"de"}
•
•
'' .
, n ;
•
'
. 'h'' ' -•• ;'>"_ ' · ,)
\ ' · I •••. · ··:
I tlc\ ,
-- ECCE HOMO!
oa, -
A CRITICAL ENQUIRY INTO THE HISTORY
OF
JESUS CHRIST;
I
.f.
The Cross was the banner under which madmen assembled to ,
the earth with blood.-Y"WI:chap.mii.
Let us not despair tbt Trutll will one c18y force ita way even to
thrones.-&ulrmger.
SECOND EDITION.
•·
.,on1Jon:
PRIK'I'BD, PVBLIIIBED, AND BOLD BY 'D. J, BATON,
.4V.IU.RU L.lNE1 LVDG.lTE STREET; .lJrD
'iO BE 01' ALL BOOKSELLERS,
18f3.
'(
·
..
Digitized by Coogle
.·
13T '
•
. ... .
,I
Digitized byGoogle
•
INTRODUCTION.
t_rHOUGH the \vriting·s of the Evangelists are in
the bands of every one, nothing is more common:
than to find the professoi·s 'of Christianity, unacquaint...
'ed with the history of 'the founder of. their '_religion;
and ere·n among those who l1av.e that history,
it is still more to find any w.ho have
'seriously to exam.i.ne it. It must, indeed, be acknew-
.ledged, lhat the ignorance of tb·e one, and the want of
reflection in the other, on a subject which they, never•
regard as of infinite importance, may. arise
from the dislike naturally occasioned by perusal of
the New Testament. In fact, there reign in that .work
aconfusion, an obscurity' and a barbarity of stile,.well-
adapted to confound the ignorant, and disgust enligh•
tened minds. Scarcely is there a -history, ancient or
modern, which docs not possess more method and per·
spicuily than that of Je!lus Christ; neither do WE' per-
ceive that the Holy Ghost, its putative author, has sur•
passed, or even equalied many profane historians,
wlwse writingR are notso important to mankind. The
clergy confess, that the Apostles were illiterate men,
a
•
2
.ad of coarse manners ; and it does not appear thllt
the spirit of God, which inspired them, troubJed itself
1rith rectit"yng their defects. On the contrary, it seem8
to have adopted them; to have aceommodated itselftcr
the weak understandings of its instruments; and tCI
have inspired them with works wherein we meet not
with the jndg.ment, order, or precision, that are found
in many human compositions. Hence, the gospels
present tis with a confused assemblage of prodigies,
anachronisms, and contradictions, in which criticism
loses itself, and which would otake any other book be
rejected with contempt.
It is by mysteries the mind is prepared to respect
religion and its teachers. We are therefore warrant-
.ed to suspect, that an obscurity was designedly giveu
to these writings. In matters of religion it is prudent
Bever to speak very distinctly. Truths, simple and
easily understood, do not strike the human imagination
in so lively a manner, as ambiguous oracles and impe·
Jletrable mysteries. Jesus Christ, although come on
' purpose to enlighten the world, was to be a stumbling
block to most people. The small number of the elect,
the difficulty of salvation, and the danger otexercis·
ing reason, are every where announced in the gospel.
Every thing seems indeed to demonstrate, that God
has sent his dear Son to the nations, on purpose
only to ensnare them; and that they .should not com-
prehend any part of the religion which he meant to
promulgate.• In this the Eternal appear• to have in·
• By scripture•, and the fathers of the church, God it al· .
way• repte.ented u a teducer. He permitted EYe to be seduced
by a serpent. He hardened the heart of Pharaoh. Christ him·
.elf wu 41 fltme .Df
Digitized byGoogle
tended to throw mortals into darkness, perplexity, a
eiffidence of themselves, and a continual embarrass•
ment, obliging them to have recourse every moment to
those infallible luminaries, their priests, and to remain
for ever under the tutelage ofthe church. Her minis·
ters, we know, claim the exclusive prh·ilege ofunder·
.tanding and explaining the holy scriptures; and no
mortal ean expect to obtain future felicity, if he does
JJotpay due 1t1bmission to their decisions.
Thus, it belongs not to the vulgar to examine reli-
gion. On mere inspeetion of the gospel every pers9n
must be convinced that the book is divine-that every
word contained in it is inspired by the Holy Ghost•;
and that the explanations, given by the church, or
that celestial work, in like manner emanate (rom the
Most High. In the first ages or Christianity, those
who embraeed the religion of Jesua were only"some
dt'egs of the people; consequently, very simple, unac•
q-uainted with letters, and disposed to believe all the
wonders any oae chose to announce. Jesus, in his
sermons, addressed himself to the vulgar only ; he
would have intercourse with none but persons of tbat
east; he constantly refused to work miracles in pre·
eence of the most clear-sighted people of the nation;
Joe inveighed unt:easingl,r agaiDst the teamed, doc.
" Tbe opinioa ef most theologisb ia, that the Holy Ghotl
l;tas revealed to the .-ered writers e'Yen the orthography of the
words they ha¥e employed, yea, e'Yen the polpts and eommaa.
But suppoting the reali'y ofthis inepiration, 1till it would not
be sufficient; it would be further JJeceuary to guarantee, that
all the copyists and monk,, dpriPr the aJe• of ignorance, who
.bave transmitted the .revealed writings, ha'Ye co1omitted no
faults ill transcribjQg tj)em. A point or a comma, miaplae«"l,
Jre sufficient, 'IJ8 know, to alter completeJy tbe MillO of ••
Digitized byGoogle
tprs,. and·the rich; against all io whom he no\
&nd the pliability for adopting hie maxims,,
We see him continually extolling poorness of
simplicity, '-nd faith•.
His disciples, and after them the ministers of tha
church, have faithfully followed hia footsteps; they
have always represented faith, or blind submission,
the first of virtues; as the disposition most agreeable to
God, and most necessary to salvation. 1'his principia
serves for abasis to the Christian religion, and, above
all, to the power ofthe clergy. 1'hE! pastors1
who succeeded the Apostlett, employed the greatest
care in the Gospels from inspection ofall
who were not initiated in the mysteries of religion.
They exhibited these books to those otdy whose faith
they tried, and whom they found
to regard them as divine. 1'his spirit bas
been down tQ In several
countries the commonalty among Christians inter..,
dieted from. perusing the· especially in the
}toroish communion, clergy are acquainted
vitb the ofgoverning mankind. The Council
of Trent has decreed, in the most e:¥plicit manner, thd
" it beloqgs to the alone to decide oo the true
meaning of the and give
tion+."
4t Wefind Jeaus inculcating faith in all his discourses, and
cially in St. Matthew and 5t: Mark-" He who bath faith shall
ntmoYe mountains."-" He who shall believe and is baptized
lbalJ be sued," a:e. Several Christian sects believe, according
to tlaete puAges, that faith itself, without works, is
for sal"Vatioo.
+Tile Carliinal Pallnkini, ;n his History of the Council
Trent, <•••· IV.) removn every ditlieulty, by sayin,, that "all
.
.
I
J
It Is true, the reading-of the sacred books is pet'1
mitted, and even recommended to the Protestant;;, wh()
;tre also enjoined to f)xamine their religion. But
must always precede that reading, and follow that ex-.
.amination .; so that before reading, a Protestant i,;
b ound to believe 'the Gospel to be divi_ne; and the
examination which he makes of it, is only,
:
while he finds there what the ministers of his sect have
1·esolved that he shall find; beyond thil5, he is re·
garded as an ungodly man, and often punished for
the wealmess of his intellects.
'Ve must then conclude, that thesalvation ·ofChris-
tians depends neither on the reading nor understand-
jug of the sacred books, but in the firm belief that
are divine. If, unfortunately, tb.e reading
pr examination of any person, does not coineide with
the decisions, interpretations, and commentaries ofthe
he is.in of being ruined, and efincur-
ring eternal damnation. To read the gospel, he must
with being disposed blrndly to believe all
JVhich that book c01itains; to e:r:amiiw the pel, lte
be previously resolved to iind nothing there but
the holy and the adorable ; in fine, to understand the
gospel, he must entertain a fixed persuasion, that our
prie!its can never either be themselves deceived, or
to deceive others, in the manner they explain
it. " Believe, (say they), believe on our words, that
this hook is tbe work of God himself; if you dare to
doubt it, you shall be damned. Are you uqable to com:-
prehendany ofwhat God reveals to you there? Btlie'Oe
.et'ermore :-God revealed himself that he may not
,th.e faith of Christ;am is founded only on one 11i01;le utidc•.
the infallible authority oft he church."
Digitized byGoogle
I
.A
be understood. The glor!J of God is to conceal hi1
word; • or rather, by speaking in an unintelligible ·
aumner, does not God intimate that he wants every
one to refer it to us, to whom he has confided his im•
portant seerets ?-A truth, of which you must not
doubt, seeing that we per8ecnte in this world, and
damn in the other, whoever dares to question the testi··
mony which we bear to ourselves."
HoweYer this reasoning may appear to the-
profane, it is sufficient fur the greater part of believere,
Where, they do not read the gospel, or
where they do read it, they do not it; where
they examine, it wwith prejudiced eyes, and with a
fixed determination to find there only what shall be
conformable to their own prejudices, and the interests
of their guides. In consistency with his fears and
prepossessions, a Christian believes himselflost, should
he 6Jtd. in the saered books to dqubt the vera•
city of his priests.
With such disposition!!, it is not surprising to see men
persisting in their ignorance, and making a merit of
rejecting the lights .whieb reason ofters them. It is
thus that error is perpetuated, and that nations, in con.,.
cert with those who deceiYe them, bestow on interest•
• Pruverb1 of Soloma,, xxv. 2· It is on this ·odious maxim.
110 diehonourable to the diYinity, that all my1teries are founded.
Wkat right bad St. Justin to reproach lhe Pagans with the im!
piety of one oftheir poet., who had said that the gods, during
the greater part of their time, " amused themselve• with de--
men !"-Is not the whole Bible a continual snare laid fot
the human understanding ? Is not the whole conduct of Christ.
according to the gospel iteelf, a tnare laid for the Jews; so
bearing they might not understand, .and seeing they might DOt
•elieve ill the Messiah ?"
Digitized byGoogle
-..
...
'
ed ebeats an unbounded confidence in w\at they re•
gard as of the greatest importance to their own
ty. But the darkness, whichfor•omany ages hasenve-
loped the human mind, begins to dissipate. In spite of
the tyranniccaresof their jealous guides, mankiodilt!letn
desirous to burst from the pupilage, wherein ae maay
causes combine ill attempting to retain them. The ig•
Doranee in which the priesthood fostered the credulous,
has vanished from amongst many nations ; the despo•
tism ofpriests is enfeeblfd in several flourishingstates;
science bas rendered the mind more liberal ; and man•
kind begin to blush at the ignominious fetters, uoder
which the clergy have so long made both kings and
people groan. The human mind indeed seeiDS struc·
gling in every country to break in pieces its chains. ·
Having premised this, we proceed to examine, with·
out any prejudice, the life ofJesus Christ. We shan
deduce our facts from the gospel only; memorials re•
verenced and acknowledged by the doctors of tho
Christian religion. To illustrate these facts, we shall
employ the aid of criticism. We shall exhibit, in the
aimplest manner, the conduct, maxims, and policy of
an obscure legislator, who, after his death, acquired a
celebrity to which there is no reason for presuming.
that be pretended while alive. We shall contemplate
in its cradle a l'eligion which, at first destined solely
for the vilest populace of a nation, the most abject,
th.e most credulous, and the mest stupid on earth, be·
came, by liUle and little, mistress of the Romus; the
firebrand of nations, the absolute aovereign of Euro.
pean monarchs; arbiter of the destiny of
&be .
cause of their friendship, and of their hate; the
cement .which servu to streJlllben their alliance or
their discord; and the lea\'81J alwa.ra ready to put·
Digitized byGoogle
--..::· .
8
-.indtt in fermentation. In fine, we shall behoid , ..
artisan, a melanc:holy enthusiast and unskilful
«ler, burstingout ofa carpenter's shop, in order to de-
ceiYe men of his own cast; miscarrying in all his pro'-
jecta; himselfpunished as a publit incendiary; dying
en a erou; and yet after his death becoming the
legislator and the god of many nations, and an ob•
jeet of adoration to beings who pretend to commo11
sense!
There is every reason to beliere, if the Holy Ghost
. 'had foreseen the transcendant fortune which the re-
ligion or Jesus was one day to attain ; if he had fore•
seen that this religion would, in the course of time, be
received by kings, civilized nations, scholars, and per·
sons in the higher eircles of life ; i( he had suspected
that this religion would be examined, analysed, dis•
eussed arid criticised by logicians ; there is, we say, rea•
son t& believe tbat the Holy Ghost would have lefl us
memoirs less shapeless, facts morecircumstantial, proof$
more authentic, and materials better digested than
those we possess on the life and doctrine ofits founder.
He would have chosen writers .better qualified than
those he has inspired, to transmit to nations the
speeches and· actior\s of Saviour of the World ;
lae would have made him to act and speak, on the most
trifling point, in a manner more worthy of a god ; he
.,.'Ould have put in !tis mouth a language more noble,
n:ore perspicuous, and more persuasive; and he would
Jtaye employed means more eertain to convince rebel·
lious reason, and abash incredulity.
' ef all this bas occurred : the gospel is
merely an eastern romance, disgusting to evE>ry man or
a9ttsc, and applrently to tl1e igno-
raa-, the stupid, and the vulgar, the only persona whom
.
Digitized byGoogle
•
it can mislead.• Criticism finds there no connectloti •
of facts, no agreement of circumstances, no train or
principiE.'S, and no uniformity of relation. Four men,
unpolished and devoid of letters, pall$ for the faithful
Bfthors of memoirs containing the life of Jesus
Christ; and it is on their testimony, that Christians
believe themselves bound to receive the religion they
profess, and .adopt, without examination, the most con-
tradictory facts, the most incredible actions, the most
amazing prodigies, tbe n1ost unconnected system, th4!
.·most unintelligible doctrine, and the most revolting
mysteries!
Supposing, however, that the gospels in our bands
belong to the authors to whom they are attributed ;
.that they were in reality written by apostles or disci•
pies ofapostles, it not follow from this alone,
that their ·testimony ought to be suspected l Could
not men,' who are described as ignorant, ahd destitute
of parts, be themselves deceived? Could not enthu-
siasts and very imagine, that they
. .
• Victor of Tania ioforms us, that, U. tile aixth cellltary, the
Emperor Anastasia• causecl the gospel• to be corrected as works
Jrompo8ecl by fools.
The Elt-mentt of Euclid are iatelligi&te toall who eodeavourt•
understand UaemJ tbey excite no·dispute among pometriciae•
Is it 10 with the Biltle? aod do ia. rneaiei lruiM ec:oatMil ..
ditpUtes ameag •iYiaes l By what fatality bne writiags te•eaW
by God bintsclf ltiH need ofcommentaries1 and why do they d•
mand adtlitionallights frem on high, hefore they c:ail bebelined
er underatood l II it not aatoaishing, that what was iuteitdetl
•• a guide to mankind, sllould be wholly abo"Ye their comprd-
benaion l Is it not cruel, that what is ofmost. importaaee to 41rem.
ehould be least known l All is my1tery, darkneu, ancertaillt'f,
and matter of dispute, in a religio11 iateacled by tho Moat Bigl
to enlighten the hamaa rac:o. _,
()
•
•
byGoogle
• •
•
•
•
•
•
10
bad seen many things which never existed, and thue
become the dupes of deception?* Could not im-
postors, strongly attached to a sect whereby they
eubsisted, and which therefore they bad an interest to
support, attest miracles, and publish facts, with the
talsebood of which they were well acquainted? an·d
could not the first Christians, by a piousfraud, aner-
wards add or retrench things essential to the works
ascribed to the apostles? We know that Origen, so
early as the third century, complained loudly of the
corruption of manuscripts. " What shall we say (ex-
claims he) of the errors of transcribers, and of the
impious temerity with which they have corrected the
text? What shall we say of the licence of those, who
interpolate or erase at their pleasure?"
These questions form warrantable prejudices against
the persons to whom the gospels have been ascribed7
and against the purity of their text.
It is also extremely difficult to ascertain, with any-
degree ofcertainty, whether those books belong to the
authors whose names they bear. It is a well known
fact, that in the first ages of Christianity there a
• Whoever has perused the ancient historians, particularl1
Herodotus, Plutarch, Livy, and Josephus, must feel the force
of this reasoning. These writers, with a pious credulity similar
to that of (;hristians, relate prodigies pregnant with absurdities,
which they themselves pretended to have witnessed, or were
witoessell by others. Among tbe wonders that appeared at
Rome, some time before the triumvirate, many statues of tho
Gods sweat hlood and water; and there was an Ox which spoke-.
Under the empire of Caligula, the statue of Jupiter at Olympue
a.unt forth into such,loud fib of laughter, that those who were
_taking it down to carry to Rome, abandoned their work and
led in terror. A Crow prognosticated misfortune to Domilian,.
• an Owl }laid the same compliment to Herod•
•
• Digitized byGoogle.
•
l
•
11
'ft!ry great number of gospels, diff'erent froin one ano-
.ther, and composed·for the use of difFerent churchee
and different sects of Christians. 'fhe truth of this
has been confessed by ecclesiastical historians of the
greatest credit.• '!'here is therefore reason to suspect,
that the persons who composed these gospels might,
with the view of giving them more weight, have attri·
huted them to apostles, or disciples, whoactually bad no
&hare in them. That idea, once adopted by ignorant
and credulous Christians, might be transmitted from
11ge to age, and pass at last for unquestionable, io times
when it was no longer possible to ascertain the authors
or the facts related.
It is well known, that among some fifty gospels,
with which Christianity io its commencement was inun·
• Vide Tillemont, tom. ii. p. 4'7, 2i'f, 438. St. Epiphan. Homil.
34. The celebrated Henry Dodwell affirm&, that it was not till
the reign of Trajan, or indeed of Hadrian (i. e. more than a
eentury ;ftf!r ChriJt) that a collection, or canon, of the books.of
the New Testament was made. These writings had even till then
been concealed in tbe archives of churches, and were only in
the bands of priests, who could dispoee ofthem at their
Dodwell'• Di88ertations on Irenmum, p. 66, &c. To this may be
added, the profound work of Mr. Freret, published in 1766,
under the title of Ezamen Critique del .lpologistes de Ia Religion•
Chretienne.
It is evident, that, among the first Christian doctors, there
'WaS a great number of pious forgers, who, to make their Cause
prevail, framed and forged gospels, legends, ronuinces, orac"tes
of Sybils, and other works, of which the impo1ture and folly
were so striking, that the church itself has been foJOCed to reject
them. To be convinced of this, we have only to cast our eye•
on the work entitled Codez Apocr!JPhu• .N'ovi Tc•tameRti, pub·
Jished by J. A. Fabri!=ius, at Hamburgb, 1'7lt. The practice of
framing Evangelical Romances, wa• not even recently left otrin
the Romish Church. .A. J.esuit, called father Jerome Xavier, a
Digitized
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
12
dated, tile cburcb, auembled in council at Nice, chose
fOur of them only, and rejected the rest as apocryphal,
although the latter bad nothing more ridiculous in
them than those which were admitted. Thus, at the
• end of three centuries, (i.e. in the three hundred and
twenty-fifth year of the Christian era,) some bishops
th,t these four goapels were the only ones
which ought to be adopted, or which had been really
by the Holy Ghost. A miracle enabled thean
to this important truth, so difficult to be dis-
cerned, "'t a time even then not very remote from that
efthe ttpostles. They placed, it is said, promiscuously,
books apocryphal and authentic under an altar:-
Fathers of the Council betook themselves to pray-
era, in order to obtain of the Lord, that be would
mit the false or doubtful books to remain under the
altar, whilst those which were truly inspired by the
Holy Ghost shouid place themselves above it-a cir·
cumstance which did not fail to occur. It is then on
this miracle that our faith depends ! It is to •it that
a Miuionary, in Persia, composed a ridiculous history of Jesus,
bit mother, and St. Peter, ia the Persian and Latin languages,
•hich was published under the title llistorica ChriNli Per&ica,
in 4lo. Lugd. Batav. 1689. L'Hisloire du Peuple de Dieu, by the
Rev. Father Berruyer, is well known. In the thirteenth century,
the Cordelien compoaed a book under the title L'Et•angila
Elemal.
Ja all a:e•, Christians, whetl!.er Orthodox or Heretics, have
beea piously occupied in deceiving the simple. Some have :one
19 f..- as to palm works on Jesus, and we have a pretended letter
of his to kin: Abgarua. It to be remarked, that author•
aparove4 by the Church, such at St. Clemen• Romanus, St.
lloatiua Martyr, St,..Justio, and St. tlemeDt of Alexandria, have
quoted passage• which are not to be found in the four gotpelt
..mitted at present.
...
•
•
Digitized byGoogle
.. .
•
•
I
j
r
•
13
Christians owe tbe assurance of possessing the true
gospels, or filithful memoirs of the lite of Christ! It is
from these only they are permitted to deduce the prin-
ciples of their belief, and the rules of conduct
they ought to observe, in order to obtain eternal salva·
tion!
'fhus, the authority of the books which serve for the
J>asis ofthe Christian religion, is founded solely on the •
authority ofa council, of an assembly of pries" and
bishops. But these bishops and priests,j•dges and par-
ties in an affair wherein they were obviously interes·
could they not be themselves deceived ? Indepen-
•dently of the apocryphal miracle, which enabled theni
to distinguish the true gospels from the false, had they
any sign, which could fairly enable them to distinguish
the writings which they ought to receive from those
which they ought to reject ?
Some- will tell us, that the church assembled in age•
neral council is infallible; that then the Holy Ghost
jnspires it, and that its decisions oughi to be regarded
as those of God himself. If we demand, where is tho
proof that the church enjoys this infallibility? It will
be answered, that the gospel assures it, and that Jesu.
Christ has expressly promised to assist and enlighten
his church until the consummation of ages. Here the
, incredulous will reply, that the church•then, or its mi-
flisters, create rights to themselves; for it is their au-
thority which alone establishes the authentici\y of
books whereby their own authority is established; this
is obviously a circle of errors. In short, an assembly
ofbishops and priests has decided, that the books which·
attribute to themselves an infallible authority, hal'e
been divinely inspired.
Notwithstanding that there remai11
Digitized by 00gle
..
....
•
•
14
lOme difficulties on the authenticity o( tl1e g'08pel!l. {d
the first place, it may be asked, whether the decision
of the Couneil of Nice, composed of three hundred and
eighteen bishops, ought to be regarded as that of the
universal church? Were all who formed.that assemblj
entirely of the same opinion among themselves? Wete
there no disputes among these men inspired by the
Holy Ghost? '\Vas their decision unanimously accept-
ed? Had not the secular authority of Constantine a
chief share in the adoption of the decrees ofthat ce)e..
brated council? In this case, was it not the imperial
power, rather than the spiritual authority, which .de-.
cided the authenticity of the gospels?
In the second place, many theologists agree, that the
universal church, although infallible in dogma, may err
in facts. Now it is e\·ident, that in the case alluded
dogma depends on fact. Indeed, before deciding whe-
ther the dogmas contained in the gospels be divine, it
was necessary to know, beyond the possibility of a
doubt, whether the four gospels in question were really
written by the inspired authors to wJJOm they are as-
cribed; this is ob_viously afact. It "as further neces-
sary to know, whether these gospels have never been
altered, mutilated, augmented, interpolated,or fulsified,
l»y the different hands through which they have passed
in the course of three centuries; this is Hkewise a
fact. Can the fathers of the church infallibly guaran•
tee the probity ofall the depositaries of those writings,
and the exactness ofall the transcribers ? Can these fa-
thers deeide definitively, that, during so long a pe_riod,
JJone could insert marvellous relations or dogmas in
these memoirs, unknown to those who are their sup..
posed authors? Does not ecclesiastical history in(orm
us, that, in the origin of C(J.ristianity, there were
Digitized byGoogle
--
•
16
disputes, heresies, and sects witlaout namber;
ami that each of the disputants founded his opinions
on the gospels? Even in the time of the Council or
Nice, do we not find that the whole church was di·
vided on the fundamental article of the Christian
religion, the divinity ofJesus?
'J'hus, on considering the matter closely, it will be
•een that the Council of Nice was the true founder or
Christianity, which, till then, wandered at random; did
uot acknowledge Christ to be god; had not any authea-
tic gospels; '!as without a fixed law; and had no code
of doctrine whereon to rely. A number of bishops
and priests, very few in comparison of those who com.-
posed the whole Christian church, and these bishops
very little in union among themselves, have decided
oa the point most essential to the sah·ation of nations.
They have decided on the divinityof Jesns; on the an·
theoticity of the gospels ; that, according to these, their
ownauthprityought to be deemed infallible. In a word,
they have decided on faith! Nevertheless, their deci-
sions might have remained without force, if they had
pot been backed by the authority of Constantine.
'-'his prince gave prevalence to the opinion of these
lathers ofthe Council, who knew bow to draw him, for
• a time, to their own side ;* and who, this mul-
titude ofgospels and writings with which Christianity
\vas inundated, did not fail to declare those divine,
• Ecclesiastical history proves, that Constantine afterwards
persecuted Atbanaaius, exiled him to Treves, and died an Arian.
His 1011 Constantine lived and died in the same sect. Father Pe-
tau the Jeauit, and other learned men, believed that the Church
was Socinian or Arian before the council of Nice. It is at least
4:ertain, that the word consubdantial, which was adopted by tbllt
c:ouuciJ, had been condemned by the couu.cil of Autioch heW
•
• Digitized byGoogle
16
wflielltbey judged most conformable to tb(>ir own par•
ticular opinions, or to the ruling taction. In religion,
as in other things, the reasonbtg ofthe stt·ongest party it
11Tway1 the best.
then, in the last resort, the aufhority of an
emperor, who determines the chief points of the
Christian religion ! Tbis emperor, bnt little fi:ted in
his own faith, decides, until further orders, that J(>sus
is consubtantial \Vith the Father, and compels his sub..
jects to receive, as inspired, the four gospels we have
in our hand!!. It is in these memoirs, exclusively
adopted by some fathers in the Council of Nice ; by
them attributed to apostle!', or unexceptionable wit•
nesses, inspired by the Holy Ghost; by them pro·
posed to serve as an indispensible rule to ·christiafts-
that we are 1to seek for the materials of our history.
We shall state them with fidelity ; we shall compare,
and connect the relations, often discordant, which
they contain; we shall see if the facts which they de•
tail are worthy of God, and calculated to procure to
.mankind the advantages which they expect. 1'his en·
quiry will enable us to judge rightly of the Christian
religion ; of the degree of confidence we ought to
place in it; of the esteem we ought to entertain for
its lessons and dogmas; and of the idea we should •
form ofJesus its founder.
'fhough, in composing this history, we have laid it
down as a rule to employ the gospels only, we pre.
againJJt the famous Paul of Sam011ata. But our doctors have
recourse to saying, with St. Augustine, that the ancient general
c:ouncils were corrected by posterior councils; or ehe they teR
us, with the Cardinal de Cusa. " that the Church, b)l- cbangin:
ita opinion. obliges us to believe that God also changes hia."•
Thus it is that dip elerg:y sport with •
•
Digitized by Googl
.
t
,
I
•
it
tume not to flatter ourselves; that it will please
body, or that the clergy will adopt our labours. The
· which we shall form; the interpretations we
shall give; the we. shall present to
our readers; will not be entirely agreeable to
the views of our spiritual the greater part of
whom are enemies to all enquiry. 'fo such men we
would state, that critjcism gives a lustre to truth;
that to reject aU examination, is to !lcknowledge tho
weakness of their cause; and that not to wish for dia•
cussion, is to avow it to be incapable of sustainiug a
trial.
If they teli us, thai our ideas are repugnant to the
decisions of councils, of the fathers, and of the uni•
versal church ; to this.we shall answer, that, accordiDf
to the sacred books, opposition is not always a crime;
·we shall plead the example of.ail apostle, to whom the
Christian J:eligion Is under the greatest obligations-
what do we say I-to whom alone, perhaps, it owes iw
existenee. Now this apostle boasts of having with·
llood the great St. Peter to his face, that visible head.
of the church, appointed by Christ himself' to feed hit
flock; and whose infallibility, is at least a!J
probable as that of his successors, and even that ofthe
church as!jembled in recumenical council.
If they tax us with innovation, we shall plead t'be
exampie ofJesus himself, who was regarded aa an ina
tunator by the jews, and who was a martyr for the re•
form he wanted to introduce. We, however,,candidly
declare, that we have no desire to imitate him in this-
we applaud only to the martyrdom exclusively. lf
the tenets advanced be unacceptable, the author, as he
has no pretensions to divine inspiration, leaves to
every one the liberty of rejecting or his ill•
D
• Digitized byGoogle
18
terpretattont, and method of investigation. tie do8
not threaten with eternal torments those who resist his-.
arguments; he bas not credit enough to promise hc_
a·
ven to such as yield to them ; he pretends neither to
constrain1 nor to seduce those who do not t1Jink as he
does. He is desirous on1y to calm the mind; allaf
animosity; and sooth the passions of those zealots;
who are ever ready to harass their fellow creatures, ott
account ofopinions which may not appearequally con...
vincing to all the world. He promises to point out
the ridiculous cruelty of those men of blood, who per·
secute for dogmas which they themselves do not un-
derstand. He ventuTes to tatter himself, that such
of his readers as perme this enquiry with coolness,.
will acknowledge, that it.is very possible to doubt or
the inspiration of the gospels, and of the divine mis-
•!Uon ofJesus,. without ceasing, notwithstanding that,
to be a rational and honest man.
Such as are exasperated against this work, are en-
treated to remember, that faith is a gift of beuen;
that tile want ofi't i1 not a 'Dice; that if the Je.ws,. whO>
were eye witnesses of"tbe wonders of Christ, did not .
believe them, it is very pardonable to doubt them at
the beginning ofthe century, especially on
finding that the narrative of these marvels, said to
have been inspired by the Holy Ghost, are not
fOrm, nor placed in harmony witli each other. In
fine, fiery deTotees are earnestly entreated to moderate
their holy rage, and suffer the meekness, so often re·
commended by their divine Saviour, sometimes to oc-
enpy the place of that bitter zeal, and perseeuting
spirit, which creates so many enemies to the Christian
religion and its doctors. Let them remember, that i(
it is to patience and for})earance Christ promises
Digitized by GoogIe
•
-19
possession ofthe earth, it is much to he feared that
pride, intolerance, and inhumanity, will render the
ministers of the church detestable, and make them lose
that empire ovt>r minds, which to them is so agreeable.
If they wish to reign over rational men, they must dis-
play reason, knowledge, and, al>Gve all, virtues
useful thaD those wherewith the teachers ofthe gospel
have so long infested society. Jesus bas said, in the
clearest manner, " Happy are the meek, for the!/ sha?l
inherit the earth;" unless indeed interpreters should
pretend, that this only signifies the necessity of perse·
. cuting, exterminating, and cuttiRg the throat& of those
whose affections they wish to·gaio.•
Ifit were permitted to cite the maxims of a profhne
verson by that of &he Son of God, 'we ·WOUld. quote
• The modern religion of Europe, says tbe author of TM
,tystem of Ntzture, has visibly eaused more range• aad trot$lt.
than any other snpentition ; it is in that reepeet very
aat to its principles. They may well preach tolerance aad mild-
uess in tile aame of a despotic God, who daima a right to the
homage of the whole earth' who is extremely jealous that any
other doctrines should be received than what hne his sanction ;
who punishes cr.uelly for erroneous opinions; who demanda un-
bounded zeal from his adorers. Such a llein: molt cocuequently
make fanatical perseeutora of all meu. The .theology of the
Jlreaent day is a subtile -.enom, cateulatetl, through the import-
auce which ia attached to it, to infect nery one. By dint ofme-
taphyaics, modern theologians baTe become systematically
absurd and wieiLecl. By once admitting the odious. ideas which
they entertain of the divinity, it is impossible to make them Ull·
derstand that tbeJ ought to be humane, equitahle, pacific, ia-
dulgent, aftd tolerant. They pretead that tbe1e humaoe ·aacl
&oeial Tirtuea are not seaaonable in the cause of relir;ioo, and
would be treason in the eyea of the celettial Munarch. to whom
IVery to be aactlflccd.
Digitized byGoogle
20
here the apophtllegm of the profound Macbiavel, that
" empires are preserved by. the same means whereby
they are established." It was by dint of meekness,
patience, and precaution, that the disciples ofJesus
succeeded in establishing Christianity. Their successors
have employed violence; but not until they found
themselves supported by·devout tyrants. Since then,
gospel of peace bas been the signal of war; the
pacific disciples of Jesus have become implacable
warriors ;"have treated each other as ferocious beasts;
and the church has been perpetually torn by dissen..
sions, schisms, factions. Ir tlae primitive spirit
ofpatience and meekneslt not quickly return to
*be aid of religion, it is to be feared that it will be-
come the object ofthe hatred ofnations, who begin to
feel that morality is preferable to obscure dogmas, and
that peace is ofgreater value than the holy frenzl' of
the JQioisters of the gospel, ·
We cannot, thcrefQre, with too much earnestness ex..
hort them, for their own sakes, to moderation. Let
imitate their divine Master, who never emplo.red
}lis power to exterminate the Jews, of whom
he bad so much tocomplain. He did not make the
armies of heaven descend, in order to establish hiil
doctrine; he chose rather to surrender to the secular
arm than give up the infic.lels, whom his pPOdigies and
transcendent reasoning could not convince. Though
lte was the depositary of the power ofthe Most High;
though be was inspired by the Holy Spirit; though he
had at his command all the annals of Paradise; we dq
JlOt find that be bas performed any great miracles on
undentandings of his auditory. He suffered thean
tp remain in their blindness, though be had come on
to enli;bte11 them: We doubt,
Digitized byGoogle
!l
eoncluct so wise was intended to make the pastors
ofhis church (who are not possessed of more persua•
'Bive powers than their master), sensible that it is not
by ,·iolenee they can reconcile the mind to incredible
things; and that it would be unjust to force others to
comprehend what, without favour from abovE', it would
be impossible for themselves to comprehend ; or what,
even with such favour, they but very imperfectly un-
derstand.
But it is time to conclutle an introduction, perhaps,
already too long to a work which, even without pre-
amble, may be to the clergy, and irritate the
temper of the particularly of female dt>votees.
The author does himself the justice to believe, that he
•
has written enough to be allowed the privilege of ex-
pecting to be attacked by a cloud of writers, obliged,
l>y situation, to repel his blows, and to defend, right
.or wrong, a CJJ.use wherein they are so much interested..
He reckons that, on his death, his book will be cruelly
calumniated; his reputation torn; and his argumenta
taken to or mutilated. He expects to be treat-
as impious-a blaspheDJer..,-as anticbrist; and to
J>e loaded with all the epithets which the pious are in
use to lavish on those who disquiet them. He will
not, however, sleep the less tranquil for that; but a•
his sleep may pre\·ent him from replying, be thinks it
his duty to inform his antagonists before hand, that in-
juries are not reasons. He does more-he bequeaths
them charitable advjce, to which the defel)ders of re-
lig.ioo do not usually pay sufficient attentjon. They
are apprise!J, if, in their learned refuta-
tions, they do not resolve col)lpleteJy all the objec-
tions brought against tl)em, they will have done no-
for tlutir causef 'J.'bo illfallible defenders ofa re-
Digitized byGoogle
22
Jigion, in which it is affirmed, that e•eTy thing ie di-
inspired, are bOund not to leave a single ar-
gument behind, and ought to be convinced that an-
swering to an argument is not always setting it aside.
They should please also to keep in rea1embrance, that
a single falsehood, a single absurdity, a single con-
tradiction, or a single blunder, fairly pointed out in
the gospels, ia suficient to reader suspected, and nea
to overturn, tho authority of a book which ought to
l»e perfect in all its parts, if it be true, that it is the
work of an infinitely perfect Being. An incredulou&
person, being but a man, may sometimes reason
wrong;. but it is never permitted to a God, or his in-
ltruments, either to contradict themselves, or to talk
•oonsense.•
• They shut our mouths, says Mirabaud, by that
God himself hath spoken, and thus made himself known to mtn.
But 'II'hen, where, and to whom bath he spoken? Wllere nrc the
tlivine oracles? Ao buRdred voiees raise themselves at the same
moment; an buellred handa exhibit them to me in absurd anll
tli»eordant eollcctions. I run them over, and, tllrough the
whole, I fintl that the God of wisdom has spoken an
iuidious, and irrational language; that the God of govd11css
lias been cruel and sanguinary; that the God of justice has been
unjust, partial, and ordered iniquity ; that tlte God of mer<-iei
tlestioes the m011t unhappy victims of A.is anger, to the moll
Jaickous punishments. Many obstades, besides, present lhem-
selna whea men attempt to verify the pretended pre.eepts of a
tliviaity, wbe has never literally beid the same language in any
two countries; who bas spoken in so many places; at so many
times; and always so variously, that he appears every where to
llave shown himself, only with the determined design of throw-
the human mind into the most strange perlllcxity.-l'i.t•
.S,IIua vf Nature, vol. iii. p. 126.
o;gitizedbyGoo le
J
l
ECCE HOMO!
oa,
4 CRITICAL ENQUIRY INTO THE HlSTORlf OP
JESUS CHRIST.
•
CHAP. I.
JLC:COUNT OF TRE JEWISH PEOPLE AND THGlll PR.GPIIE'I'S-
U4UlR.Y INTO THE PllOP11EClR8 &ELATING TO •BSUS.
HowEVEI\ slightly we east our eyes ()?er
orthe Jews, such as it is transmitted in their sacred
books, we are foreed to acknowledge, tWit this peo·
ple were at all times the bJiadest, the most stupid,
the most credulous, the most aupentili$H,.-4 the
silliest that ever appeared on the earth. Moses, by
dint of IJ;liracles, or delusions, succeeded in snbjugat•
iog the • .After having liberated them from
• Justin 'Martyr iaformt ut, that 'Most!l wae the graJUisea ef
a great magician, who coanmunicatecl to 1tim all-hit art. Muo-
ton and Chereman, Egyptian bittoriant,
mooiea have IJeen traatanitted hy Joteph the Jew, «ate
that a multitude of leper• were driveu. out of by kiar-
Amenophia ; and that these exiles elected for their leader a
· priest of Heliopolil, whose mnne was :Moses, wbo formed
for 'ahem a religion and a code of lam. hteph. Wttra AP"
Digitized byGoogle
I·
ttie iron rod of the Egyptians, he put t&em under i.i;
own. This celebrated legislator bad evidently no
other intention than to the Hebrews for ever to
his titirposes, and, after himself, to render ibem the
elaves of his family and tribe. It is indeed 6bviousj
that the Mosaical e«:onomy h«d nb other object than
to deliver up people or Israel to tile tyranny and
extortions Levites. These the law, which
wa promulgated in.,.name of the Eternal, authorised
tGdevour the rest of ibe nationJ and crush them un•
der an insupportableyoke. The chosen people ofGod
were,. in short, to be the prey of the
priesthood; to satiate their avarice and ambition; and
io become the instrument and victim of their passions.
Hence, by the law and policy of ibe priests, the
people of God were kept in a profound ignorance ; in
an abject superstition; in an unsocial and savage
,Wa, lib. i. c. 9, 11, tt.-Dioclorus Siculus also relate• the
bistor;r of Motes; t1Ule translation of Abbe TanUidn.-From
the Bible it.el£ it appears, that .Motes began his tareer by a..-
llueiaating an Egyptian, who was quarrelling with a Hebrew t
after which be fted into Arabia, and marrie• the daughter of ao
idolatrous priest, by whom be wu often reproached for his
uuelty. Thence he returned into Egypt, aad plaeecl himself at
...e head of his nation, which wu dissatisfied with Kiug Pha-
roah. Motel rei,oed very t;rranaically. The examples ot
Korab, Dathao, and .A.biram, show to what kind of people lrcl
Juul an aversion. He at last disappeared like Romulus, no one
laeiog able to fiaul his body, nor the of hi• tepuJture.
The author of Tile Tllree lmpollora, a trao•latiQn of which we
und.erstaod ia preparing for the pre••• elates that Moses eoacealed
hiruaelf in a or pit. which he had found jn his solitude.
where he retired from time to time, un"cler pretence of
coafereace with hi• God a and which he bad for a loog •ime des--
tiped for his grave. in order tbat the people. not fiading hi• .
llocly• ..U&bt perwade themeelveJ it had becaeara:ied to henea.
Digitized byGoogle
I
l
avetsion the rest of mankind; i_Ji an· inveterat&
hatred of other forms of worship ; and in a barbarous
and sanguinary intolerance towards every foreign reli·
All the neighbours of the Hebrews were,
therefore, tlleir enemies. If the holy nation was the
object ofthe love of the Most High, it was an object
of contempt and horror to all those who had occasion
to know it. ·For this it was in4ebted to its religious
institutions; to the labours of its priests; to its dh·i·
viners, and its prophets, who continually profited by its
credulity, in displaying wonders, and kindling its de1i•
rium.t
Under the guidance of Moses, and ofgenerals. or
jud,es who governed tnem afterwards, the Jewish peo•
·• Josephus ioforma ulthat the surrounding natious considered
the Jews " the most stupid of barbarians, and that they bad
never invented any thing usefnt to man." JtJtep"fl. c• ..lppilm,
..b. 2.. See also tile work entitled OpirtitJnl det ..lncieftr qr les
.luifs, by Mirabaud. Yet there are men of letters blind enough
to maintain, that the Greeks borrowed a great number of phi·
losopbical and theological ideas from tbe Jews!
t The art of propbecying was then an actual profession, and
no doubt a useful and profitable branch of commerce in that
miserable nation, which believed God to be constantly busy in
their all'airs. St. Jerome says, tllat the Sadducees rejected the
propbett, contenting themselve• with believing tbe five books
attributed to Moset. Dodwell, de jure lsicorum, assert., that
tbe propltett prepared themselves to prophecy by drinking
wiae. Yide p. 259. We actually find Isaiah complaining that
"the priests ancl the have erred throUKh strong drink.;
they are ·awallowed up with t11itte 1 they are out of the way
U.roup tlrong drink; they err in Tision; they stumble in judg·
ment," chap. xxviii. 1. It seems t,hey were jugglers, poets, ancl
musicians, who bad made tbemeelves masters of their trade••
and knew bow to exercise them profitably, and live comfort..
ably.
Digitized byGoogle
ptedistinguished themselyes· only by raaAsaere£;1 unju!lt
wars, cruelties, usurpations, and iommies, which were
enjoined-them in the name oftbeEternal.• Weary ofthe
pvernment oftlteir priests, which drew on them .no-
thiog but miSfortunes and bloody defeats, the
dants of Abraham demanded king'S ;t but, under these,
the state was perpetually torn with disputes .behreeu
the priesthood and the government. Superditiota
aimed always at ruling over policy. Prophets and
priests pretended to reign ovct' kings, of who10 such as
were not sulicieatly snbmi86ive to the -interpreters of
heaven, were renounced by the Lord; and, that
time; unacknowledged and opposed by their o-wn suh-
_
jeets. FallQtics and impostors, absolute JDcuters of ·
the understandings of their nation, were continually
ready to rouse it, and excite in its besom1be most ter-
• Pl'oud of tfte protection of Jehofth, the Hebrews marched
forth to vietory. Heaven anthorieed them to cemmit knavery
and CTuelty. Jtdtgion, uaited te avidity, rendered them deaf'
to the CTies of aature; and, under the conduct of inhuman.
• ehiefs, they dettroyed tbe Canaanitisb natiens witlt a barbarity
at which every man must revolt, wbO!Ie reason it not annihilated
lay superstition. TIH!ir fury destroyed every thing. even in-
fants at the fweatt, in those eities whither tbese moastera car-
ried their victorious arm.. By the-commaads of their GGd, or
hie prophets, good faith wu violated, justice outraged, and the
lllott uabeard of cruelties
t ·It appears that the Lord seldom or ner made a penon a
liwg for his goodness, or foreknew bow he would tarn out.
He firtt of all chose Saul, one would think for his tallness; 81ld
•esoon repented of that ; then D11vid leemed to be <'hoten fo•
his ft-ellh colour aDd courage; and the Lord was so food of him
ae to promise him 011 oath, that he would. fix the crown on hi•
seed for eve!' ; yet only a Biztlt p11rt of the promise remained to
hit grandson; and ever siace lbe eaptivity, all tbe promise w
lleeu. forgot.-P; A11tl.
Digitized byGoogle
I
f
l
rible revolutions. It was tile intt'igues of the prophets
that deprived Saul of his crown, and it on
David; the man act»rding to God's own ltearJ-tbat is
• to say, devoted to the "ill of the. priests.• It was the
prophets, who, to puoish the defection of Solomon in
the person .of his son, occasioned the separation of the
kingdoms of Judea and Israel. It was the prophets
who kept these two kingdoms continually at variance;
weakened them by means ofeach other; desolated them
by religious and fatal wars ; conducted them to com-
plete ruin; a total dispersion of their inhabitants; and
a long captivity among the Assyrians.
So many calamities did not, however, open the eyea
aftbe Jews, who were obstinate in refusing to acknow·
ledge the true source of their Restored
to their homes by the bounty of Cyrus, they were agai&a
governed by priests and prophets, whose maxims ren·
dered them turbulent, and drew on them the hatred of
sovereigns who subdued them. The Greek
treated wilh the greatest· severity a people whom the
The prophet Samuel, displeued witlt Saul, who refuted to
.econ4 his cruelly, declared tllat he bad forfeited the eroWll,
-.od raised up a riul to him in the perton of Davi.I. Elias th.e
p'rophet appears to have been a seditious subject, who, findini
himself unable to succeed in his rebeDious designs, thought pro-
per to f'scape desened punishment. by ftight. Jeremiah him.
•elf gi•es os to understand, that be conspired with the A•yriaDS
against his beaiege4 country. He eeems to have employed him-
telf in deprivi"i hia fellow citizeDI of both the will and tbe
courage to defend themselves. He purchased a field of his re·
lations, at the very time whell he informed his countrymen
that tbey were about to be disperred, a!ld Jed away into capti-
vity. . The king of A11yria recommended this to his
general Nabuzaraclan, whom he commanded to take great c:are
ei bim.-See J•miNalJ.
Digitized byGoogle
.
oracles and promises of their prophets rendered al·
ways rebeUious, and ungovernable. The jews, in fine,
became the prey ofthe Romans, whose yoke they bore
with fear, against whom impostors often incited them
to revolt, and who at last, tired of their frequent re·
hellions, entirely destroyed them as a nation.
Such, in a few words, is the history of the Jewish
people. It presents the most memorable examples
or the evils which fanaticism and superstition pro-
doce ; for it is evident that the continual revolutions,
bloody wars, and total destruction ofthat nation, had
no other cause than its umvearied credulity'; ia sub·
mission to priests; its enthusiasm ; and its furious;
zeal, excited by the inspired. On reading the Old _
Testament, we are indeed forced to confess, that the
- people of God (thanks to the roguery of their spiritual
guides) were, beyond contradiction, t'be most unfurtu•
nate people that everexisted. Yet the most solemn pro·
1nises ofJehovah seemed toassure to that peoplea flou-
rishing and puissant empire. God bad made-an eternal
alliance with Abraham and bis posterity; but the Jews,
far from reaping the fruits ofthis alliance, and far
from enjoying the prosperity they had been led to ex·
pect, lived continually in the midst of calamities, and
were, more than all other nations, the sport of fright-
ful revolutions. So many disasters, however, were in-
eapable of rendering them more considerate ; the ex-
perience of so many oges did not hinder them from re:.
lying on oracles so often contradicted ; and the more
unfortunate they found themselves, the more rooted
were they in their credulity. The destruction of
their nation could not bring them to doubt either-of
the excellence oitheir law, the wisdom oftheir institu-
tions, or the veracity of their prophets, who succes•
Digitized byGoogle
relieved each other, either in menacing them ia
the name of the Lord, or in re-animating their frivo•
Ions hopes. -
Strongly convinced that tiley were the sacred and
chosen people ofthe Most High, nlone WOl'tby of his
favours, the Jews, in spite of all their miseries, were
continually persuaded that their God could not have
abandoned them. They therefore constantly looked
for an end to their atllictions, and promised themselves
a deliverance, which obscure oracles bad led them to
expect. Building on these fanatical notions, they were
at all times disposed to listen with avidity to every
-man who announced himself as inspired by Heaven;
they eagerly ran after every singular personage who
·cQuld feed their expectations; they followed whoever
bad the secret ofastonishing them by impostures, which
their stupidity made them take for miracles, super-
natural works, and unquestionable signs of divine
power. Disposed to see the marvellous in the most tri-
fling events, every adroit impostor was on the watch to
deceive them, anti was certain of making more or less
adherents, especially among the populace, who every
where are destitute ofexperience and knowledge.
It was in the midst ofapeople of this disposition, t -
that the personage appeared whose history we write.
He very soon found followers among the most despica-
ble of the rabble. Seconded by these, he preached, as
usual, reformation to his fellow citizens ; he wrought
wonders; he styled himself the envoy of the Diyinity;
he particularly founded bis mission on vague, obscure,
and ambiguous predictions, contained in tbe sacred
books of the Jews; he applied them to himself; he
announced himself as the Messiah or messenger, the
deliverer of Israel, who for so mauy ages was the
Digitized byGoogle
•
ject·orthe nation's hope. His disciples,
'and afterwards their successors, have round means to
apply to their master the ancient prophecies, wherein
he seemed the lea&t perceptibly The Cbt·is-
tians, docile and full of faith, have had the good for-
tune to see tbe founder of their religion predicted in
the Clearest manner throughout the whole Old Testa-
ment. By dint of allegories, figures, interpretations,.
und commentaries, their doctot·s haye brought them to
see in this shapeless compilation all that they bad ao
interest h• pointing out to them. When passagetl
taken literally did not countenance deceit agreeable
to their views, they contrived fot· them a twofold sense;
they pretended, that it was not necessary to undea-
stand them literally, but to give. them a mystical,
allegorical, and spiritual meaning. To explain, there-
fore, these pretended predictions, they continually
substituted one name for another; they rejected tbe
literal meaning, in order to adopt a figurative one;
they changed the most natural signification of words ;
they applied the same. passages to events quite oppo·
&ite; they retrenched the nanaes of some personages
plainly designed, in order to put in their plaee that of
Jesus; and in all this, they did not blush to make the
most crying abuse of the principles of language.*
• Any thing mny be found in the Bible, if it be read with tile-
imagination of St. Augustine, who pretended to see all tl\('
New Testament in the Old. According to him, the death of
Abet is a type of that of Christ; the two wives of Abraham are
the synagogue and the ehur<'h : a piece <>f red cloth, held up
lly n harlot, who betraye41 .Jerich1), tlte hlood ofChrist J
the lalltb, goat, and lion, are of JQsttS Christ a the bru-
zea 11erpent represents the satrifice on the croes. Even the my
at.er-iea of the religion are announce4 in the Old Tea..
o1gitized byGoogle
31
ThethirdchopterofGenesis furnishes ulil with
ing example of the maoner in which the dodors of the
Christian religion have allegorised passage• of
ture, in order to appl1 theoa to Jesas. In this ebaptet'
God says to the serpent, convictedi!Of having seduced
the woman, tire stetl of tile ;ooman shall bruise tk!l
lltad. 'l'bis prophecy appears with so much the 1a0re
difficulty to apply to Chr.ist, . that these words follow
the pFeceding-Qnd thou slwlt bruise lr.is !tnt. We
•re much embarrassed to comprehend, why that 1ee.tl
lite woman naust be understood of Jesus. If be was
tlte So11 of God, or God himself, he could not be pro•
duced from the seed of tlae woman ; ifhe was man, he
is not pointed out in a particular manner by these
words ; for all men, without exception, are procbw.ed
from tlae seed ofwomen-. According to our interpreters,
the serpent is sin ; the seed of the woman that bruisea
it, is Jesus incarnate in the womb of Mary. Since
tbe romiug of Christ, howe•er, sin, typi&ed by the ser-
tament: Mauaa repre...U the Eu<hvitt, &c.-rille St• .Aq.
&rm. 18, Ep. 1
How c:an a man, in his senses, aee in the Immanuel aauouncecl
by Isaiah, the Meesiab, whose name is Jesus 1 How discover ill
au obscure and crucified Jew, a leader who ahallgoverfl lBrtl.el 1
How see a royal delioerer and restorer of the Jewtln one, who, far
from delivering his nation, came only to destroy their lawt 1 and,
after wbou coming, tlleir laad was d.etolated by the B.omaoe?
A maa muatbe eharp-eighte4 iadeed to And tile Melfiab in tbeit
Juus biDllelf ioca not seem to have been more
clear or happy in his. In St. Luke (c. 21), he speaks of the last
judgment; he angels, who at the sound of the trum-
pet,assemble mankind before him; be adds, "verily I eay unto
100, this ehall not past away Ulltil these tiling• are
accomplished." The world, however, still stands, and Cbri..
have beenespecLia&' ibe laatjudgmeat for years!
Digitized byGoogle
• I
32
pent, has at all tintes subsiste.d; from which we are
warranted to conclude, that Jesus Christ bas not des..
troyed it, and that therefore the prediction is neither
literally nor allegorically accomplished.
In the twenty-aeeond chapter of Genesis, God pro-
mises to Abraham, that in his seed all the nations of the
earth shall be blessed. Wbat we stile prosperity, tbe
Hebrews termed bleuings. If Abraham and his race
enjoyed a continued it was only ,·ery
short period ; the became af\eJ\Wards the
slaves of the Egyptians, and were, as has been seen1
the most unfortunate people on eat'th. Christians
laave also given a mystic sense to this prophecy :-th.-y
substitute the name of Jesus in place ofthat of Abra..
:ham, and it is in bim that all the nations shall be bless•
ed ; the advantages they shall enjoy will be persecu-
tions, calamities, and misfortunes ofevery kind ; and
:his disciples, like himself, shall undergo the most pain..
ful punishments. Hence we see, that, following our
interpreters, the word blessing bas changed its mean·
ing; it no longer implies prosperity; it signifies what
in ordinary language, is termed curses, disasters, alBic·
troubles, divisions, and religious wars-calami-
ties with which the Christian nations have been con·
tinualJy blessed since the establishment of the
Christians believe that they see Jesus expressly an·
in the 49thchapterofGenesis. The patriarch
Jacob there promises sovereign power to J udab.
"The sceptre (says he) shall not depart from Judah,
nor a lawgiver from between his feet, until Shiloh
and unto him shall the gathering of the people
be., It is thus that several interpreters translate tba
• See XVIII. of thia work.
Digitized byGoogle
vene of the 49th Chapter of Geaesi&. Othtm
have tranalatecl it thus, "the authority shall for ever
be in when the Messiah shall have come."
Others read; " the authority shall be in Judah, till the
messenger receive in Shiloh the 10vereign power."
·Others again render the passage in this mariner, " the
-people of Judah shall be in ailiction, till the meNen•
ger of the Lord comes to put an end to and ac·
cording to others, " till tbe city ofShiloh be destroyed."
This diversity in the translation of the eame passage
ought unque&tionably to render the prophecy very
suspicioos. Fitstt we see that it is impossible to de·
termine the signification of the word Slcilo,, or to
ascertain, whether it be the name ofa man or a city. s...
condly, it is proved• by the sacred books, received
equatly by Jews and that the sovereign
power is gone from Judah s was wholly annihilated
during the Babylooish captivity, and has not been re•
established since. If it is pretended, that Jesus
came to restore the power of Judah, we assert,
on the contrary, that, in the time ofCbrist,Judah was
-without authority, for Jud41b had submitted to the
Romans. But our doctors have again recourse to aile·
gory :-according to them, the power ofJudah waa the
spiritual power ofJesus over Christians, designed by
Judah. '
They, in like manner, see Christ announced by Ba·
Jaam, who by the bye was only a false prophet. He thus
himself in the 24th chapterof Numbers (16,
17)-'· He hath aaid, who heard the words of God, aocl
"new the knowledge of the Mo11t High, who saw the
vil'ion ofthe Almighty, falling into a lrance, but having
his eyes open: I shall see him but not now; Isbell bel•old
him but not oigh ; there shall come a star out ofJac:ob,
,
Digitized byGoogle
34
a sceptre sballrtse out or rsrael,"'&c. 1n tliis unln·
tclligible jargon, .they pretend to shew Christians a
dear prediction their religion·. It is he
whd Is the star, becaus·e his'fumfnous do.cttine enli..,.ht·
.
ens all ininds. This sceptre, which out Is-
rael, is' the cross of Clirist, by the ·ait! ofwhTch he has
triumphe4 over the 'Devil; whd, in spite of this victory,
ceases not to reign still on eat%, and to l'e'nder uselestt
the triumph ofJesus.*
But of .all 'the ptophecies contained in the Old Tes•
tamenl, there i's not one .to whicli the Christian doctorlf
have attached . more importance than·· that found in
lsa:iah; dutp. vii.' 14. A ''virg·in, or a young·woman,
the Jlebrew word signifies both,) shall conceiT:e,
and bear·a'son, and shall call his name Immanuel. To
lind o.ut Jesus Christ in this prediction, it is. first of all
hecessary to be convinced, that this vjrgin or \vorrian
is.Mary"; next, it is necessary, _not adoubt,
lmmanuei be the same with Jesus. It been
,ohjected, and \'till be objected, against tliis pro·
• Devils are considere1l as the enemies and seduters of the'
human race, and perpetually busied in drawing them into sin.
A powe(is alt'ributed to· them ofperforming mirac:let, 8imilar to
t.hoae.wrougkt by the Most Higb J and, above aU, a power that
counteracts the Almighty, and renders all his projects abortive.
1houtth the Chrlstianrelir;ion did not formerly allow the same
power to the Devil as to God, it supposed that that
lent Being "
prevented mankind from entering into the enjoy·
ment of the felicity destined them by the goodness of God, and
1ed most of them into eternal perdition. ChriAtiaos, however.
11ow vi·rtually attribute to the Devil an empire much more ex..
th!lll that of the Supreme Being. The latter with .diffi-
saves a elect; the former carries off, in spite
of him, the greater part of mankind, who listen to his destruc•
\i ve temptations rather than the absolute comm.ands of God. ·
Digitized byGoogle
p'hecy., that it is r•ad tu ..StUll\
from the taken, to be 8,lltisfie4 .that
tbe prophet bas in view Ahaz..king ofJ .. In fact,
this is there repr.esented as in ;eonsterpation,
on account of the. ofRezin P.elalh, kings of
and Israel, who, with their
. ened hi11 dominions. Isaiah him, by -repre·
senting that he.!itill has. fon:es sufJjcienh Jte
him the assista,nce.of the Lord, whom .every ·
made always to be own ·party. To.
the truth of,his promises, Isaiah tells his sovereign,
he has only to ask of him a si&I.J· .
replies, that he aot ":ish to. · .
Lord. .'fhe P ropbet, wishing to
him, aDnouuces a sign-" A woman
shall conceiye, and bring forth a son, who shall be call-:
edlm!"llllueL". Now the following chapter informt
us wlio this young woman was : she was the wife of
Isaiah himself.-" I took unto me .(says failh:ful
witnesses ; a.nd I went unto tbe. prowbetess,,
she conceived and bare a son." The siinple
of this carry the a.use in fa\·qur of
incredulous., 'rho mai}ltain tb,at this no
respect 'applicable Jesus. But haye
of interpreting it in the most favour-
able to thei.cown purposes, without on the
suffrage of St. Matthew, who was inspired,
as the fathers of the Council of Nice have decided
out appeal.
Pr:oceeding fOrward. in the perusal of (chap.
ix. 6), we find tbe following Un*o us ,_
child is born (says the Prophet),. and the
shall be upon by
Isaiah Wajl PQfll io.)lis t;me, it. no· longer be saidt
Digitized byGoogle
that the Prophet meant to •peak of Christ, whe waa
born several centuries at\er him ; for th., birth ofJe.us,
being so distaat, could be a sign of deliverance
Ah••, as his enemies preaee(lao closely him.
are the objectio'-s of unbelieven. It is true, it is an·
awered, that the prophets spoke offuture events as if·
they were past or present. Thiaanswe.- .-equires only
to be establi11hed by proot:
the birth of haiah1s son was onl1 a ty.,e of that of
Christ ; fbr to him, it is afti.,med, is "the
government on the which is here spokel\
of; and in our doctors perceive very distinctl1
pointed out the cross that Jesus carried on his
ders when going to Calvary. Thus interpreten
have the happiness of seeing the sign of ,dominion,
or empire, i1_1 l;YOuld . to eyes less
lightened, the sign of punishment, ant\
It is propE'r also to enquire bow it comes to be said,
that, in the Chr.istiansystem, it is not at all necessary a
pophecy have i1_1 all its parbl, to the subject
or fat't to. it is applied. sacred writers do
not mean to cite a whole prophecy, but only a passage,
a detached phrasE>, or ll single word,
posite to 11uhject trellt of, without troubling
themlll"lvefl what precedes or what follows their.
qu9tation, eonnt>xion or no\ with what they are
speaking of. In the under St,
wiKhing to quote I.saiah, and apply a pro-
phecy to Christ, takes of this prophecy these detached
words only, A 'Cirgin, or a young slrall
&c.-he stood in need of no more of it. Acef;)rding to
that the Virgin Mary h.ad conceived :-
Isaiah had said, that a girJ, or ,.-oman:t should
Digitized byGoogle
3'7
fie therefore immediately concluded, tbaf th_, eoneep•
tion ofJesus was fbretold by Isaiah. This vague COD•
neetion is sufficient for St. Matthew, and aU Christians,
who, like him, believe tbey aee their founder pointed
out in this prophecy. .
Following this strange method, they have also ad..
vanced the authority of Isaiah to prove that was
the Messiah promised to the Jews. In the 50th chap•
ter this Prophet describes, in a very pathetic manner,
the misfortunes and sutferln!Js nf his brother Jeremiah.
They have long laboured to apply that prophecy to
Christ; they have distinctly 11een him pointed out in
the" man ofsorrowa," ofwhom Isaiah here 11peaks ;-
so that it is regarded rather as a faithful and circum-
stantial narrative of the passion ofJesus, than as a pre•
diction. But, in filet, sound criticism must acknow-
ledge, that this history relates only to Jeremiah. Not
to depriye themselves, howevt-r, of the resources so
useful a passage might furnish, thf'y have decided, that
in the call& of the indirect relation should
have place. Qj tbis in admitting that thenar·
rative of lt'lliah bad Jeremiah for its object, they have
laid it down as a principle, that Jeremiah was a.Jigure
or of Jesus. It is not that their lives have beea
strictly conRentaneuus ; but, in the Christian religion.
conformity followed by affinities, is not absolutely re•
4JUisite to tbe juMtice ofthe comparison.
This manner of reasoning, to the Christian
,.eligion, has been very comenient for it. St. Paul e&•
peeially, like 10ost ofthe first preachers of Christianity,
and after them the fatherti and doctor11 of the church,
successfully employed this curioua methodof pro•
•ingtheirsystem. Accordiug to them, all undertbeaa-
was the imase oftbe.new, and the moat cfie-
• o;gitizedbyGoogle
brated in .the Old . typifie4
prophetical1y Jesus Christ and his church. Abel, as•
sassinated by.his brothea·, wasa prophetic figure ofJe-
aus, put to by the Jews. The sacrifice of Isaac,
which was not accomplished, was the image of that
acconlplisbetl on the cross. The relations or predic-
tions which obviously had ·for their object Abraham,
}saac and Jacob, Moses, Samuel, David, So·.
lomon, Jeremiah, Zorobabel, or.other ancieot person;
ages, were .applied to Christ. His death was repre•
sented by the blood of be goats and of bulls. By aiJ
of these allegories, the ancient history of the Jews
served to announce the events in the liJe of Jesus,
and the llistory of the establishment ofhis religion."'-!
lo .this manner it is easy to find in the scriptures what-.
ever w·e desir-e.
It be usclcs!! to inYestigate the famous pro-
phecy of .the seventy weeks Daniel, in which the
Christian doctors believe they see the coming of Christ
dearly anno\Ulced. It is.trtJe, tllat ifDaniel,orhis edi-
tors, had taken the trouble to sp<i!cify the ofthese.
fl;eeks, they have much trouble to
interpt·eters : this prediction wight then ha\'e been a
nrygreat resource to Christianity. The ablest critics,
however, declare, tlmt th"'.Y are ,·ery much embanas·
when attempting to fix the commencement and
end of these seventy weeks•. On this they are
llnanimous, nor ean they on a precise date, which
}Jithect.o is wanting to the great el·ent ofthe coming of
tbe Mes$iab. 'Ve know the Jews.made use ofweeb
ofdays, weeks ofweeks, and weeks of years. It is by
a merely hazarded, they advance in the
QfLouyain, that the weeks PJentioned in Daniel
are weeks of t4at supp9sition .
• Digitized byGoogle
lighfon nothing, for the chronological table, which the
doctors ofLouvain have published, gives us only three
hundred and for\r;-three int«:rvening between
the time when they make the lVeeks to commence, and
the death of Jesus. Many critics have believed, that
prediction had been added afterwards to the text
of Daniel, in favour ofJonathan Maccabeus. We may
judge of the little credit that can be given to this pro·
pbecy of Daniel, from the 'prodigious number ofcom•
mentaries that have been made on it.•
After this statement, and without dwelling longer
on prophecies unintelligible even to those who adduce
them proors, let us pl_'oceed to tlJ,e life and
seeifit is better'adapted to confirm a Christian in his
re1igion. . ' '
· • The celebrated Antliony Collins composed two and
profoulld works, wherein he demonstrates that none of tbe pro-
,pkeeies·of the. Old .Testament eati 'he applied to Jesua.
Oa this &Ubject wo)lave also several..able works by Jetlfll, ·one of
w,hich baa th.\s Wle,, ;Likr Niu(l.cbo• Ye/«11' anotlli!J':
Fidei. 'fhich are to be found in the coUeetioo entitled Tel.aJpea
Sa,tan:e,' publishedby Wagenscil, in 4to. ,Altorf, 1681. Tbe na-
tural J!leaning of the Jewish prqpbecies may be found ju a cu-
rious -work' of tbe 'Jew Isaac Orobio; the manuscript of which
Alii exi4ts: it is entltfed "'Israel Vmdieated-; or, the Natural
&posrtiou of,the Prophecies ..to Jesus.''
o,gitized by Coogle
CHAPTER II.
OF TRB BIRTH OF .JESUS ORRIS'I'.
ALL the prophecies related in the sacred books, or
tpreadabroad amongst the Jews, coincide in making
them hope for the return ofthe favour ofthe Almigh•
ty. God bad pr.omised them a deliverer, a messen•
ger, a Jt.lessiah, who should restore the power oflsrael.
That deliverer was to be of the seed of David, the
prince tJtcording to God's own heart, so submissive to
thepriests, and sozealous for religion. It was, doubt·
Jess, to recompense the devotion and docility of this
holy uaurper, that the prophets and the priests, loaded
with his kindness, promised him, in the name of .hea--
ven, that his family should reign for ever. If that
famous prediction was clearly belied, during the
Babylonish captivity, and the subsequent period, the
Jews at this time, noless credulous thau- t-heir ances-
tors, rested in expectation, and persuaded themselves,
that it was impossible their prophets and diviners
could, or intended to deceive them. They imagined
that their oracles, sooner or later, would be accom•
plished, and that they should see a descendant ofDavicl
re5t.ore the llonour oftheir nation.
o,gitized by Coogle
41
lt was to confonn themselves to tlaese prediction•
and popular notions, that the writers of the Gospels
took care to give Christ a renealogy, by which they
pretended to prove that he was descended in a direct
line from David, and consequently, bad a right, in vir·
tue of his birth, to arrogate tbe character of Messiah.
Nevert beless, criticism has exhausted itself on this
genealogy. Such as are not possessed of filith, have
been surprised to find, that the Holy Ghost has dictat•
ed it differently to the two evangelists who have de·
tailed it: for, as bas been so frequently remarked, the
genealogy given by St. Matthew is not the same with
that of St. Luke : a disparity which bas thrown Chris-
tian interpreters into embarrassments, from which all
their subtilty has hitherto been unable to rescue
them. They tell us, that one of these genealogies is
that of Joseph ; but supposing Joseph to be ofthe race
of David-a Christian cannot believe that he was the
rea) father ofJesus, because his religion enjoins''him to
believe steadfastly, that Christ is the Son of God.
Again, supposing these two discordant genealogies to
be Mary's, in that case the Holy Ghost has blundered
in one of them, and unbelievers will always have rea·
son to lament the want of exactness in the he
has deigned to insvire. In whatever way we consider
them, one ofthe genealogies in the Gospel will always
appearfaulty and incomplete, and the extraction of
Jesus will be very weakly established. It how·
ever, a point that merited some attention, seeing, in
so far as concerns the Jews, it was evidently on
his illustrious birth that the Messiah was to found his
claims.
But whatever may be in this, let ua examine the
G
Digitized byGoogle
•
,._rtictuwr• wbiel preceded and accompanied· the
of Chri!IJ, 011a evangelist alone has narrated them
all tile otbera have passed over circum•=
aJtncu as marvellous f\S they are important. St. Mat..
tbew, with his genealogy, speaki but in (e,v
words of the p...,ternatural manner wherein Jcsua wajt.
fwmcd in the womb of his mother. The speech of ad
• seen in a dream, suffices to convince Joseph or
t_he virtue of his wife, and he adopts her child without
a.ny hesitation. St. Mark makes no mention of thi$·
meworable incident. St. John, who, by the assistance
Qf his mystic •••d Platonic theology, could embellish
that fact, or rather confound it, so at to shelter h.imsel(
tom the attacks of criticism, has uot said one
•bout it. We are, therefore, constrained to satisty.
e>urselvee with the St. Luke has transmitted
to this enngelist, Elizabeth, kinswo""'
Vl&D of Mary, and wife of a priest named
"as in the si"th mouth of ber pregnancy, " wheQ
the Gabriel was sent from God unto. a cit1
Nazareth, to a virgin &:poused to a maq
1rhose name was Joseph, of the house of David, an4
the virgiQ,'s nllnle was Mary. And the angel came iq
unto her, aQd sajd, Hail thou that art highly favoured,
the Lord is with thee; bleesed art thou among womeu.
And when she saw him, she was troubled at his
• So.DJe critic:• ha-.e drawn &om thi• relatioaehip of Elizat.etla
with Mary, a (»roof th•\ the lattttr waa not of the race of
To eapouae a prielt, Elizabeth ought to have been of the tribe
of l.evi, and not of Judah, to which David J.elonged. St. Au·
guatiue ••1• that, in hia time, aeveral worka which be terms.
....ted tb•t Mary wu o(tlle tribe of Levi. See
lib. 21, eOIIIra .Fr11111tum, chap. f.
Digitized by Coogle ·
lag, aad cast in h... mind. what aallaer ·-or ta1utatiod
tbia should be•. And t.lle. angel said unto .her, Feal
llot, Mary; for thou ba&f J found favour..with 'God•
And behold thou shalt conceive in thy womb, and
Lring forth a son, and shalt c:all. bis name Jesus: Tlatna
tllid .Mary to the angel, Row shaU koowr
not a mau? And tbe angel answerecl and taid unto
her, The Holy shall ei:>me upoD and the •
power oC the sball o,·erahadow -thee; there•
fore also that holy thing which shall be bora of thee•
"hall be called the Son of God. And Mary !ll!lid, Be·
hold the ha()dwaid oftbe Lord ; be it unto me
in.g.to thy wonl. Thereafter (adcb the te.lt) the angel
departed from her.'•
Now what is therein all this t'bat is any ny marvel•
4us? Nothingiadeed is more simple than this.narrative..
Ifthe 1E'ast reflection is employed on .it, tle wonderful
...mvanish ; and we slaall find the greatest cue baa
bebla taken to spare tbe JDOdesty of the young .pcl'!IOM
.,...o might read this relation. An angel• enters tlae
• The q1111li ty of •rtt;tl, wbieh tbe e·nngeli•l givea to Ga.·
briel, cannot perplex us. The difficulty bangs 1olely on the ay-
llonomy ofthe words, Ange1, CtHl, and Man; Jesus is sometimri
ulled the Son of Mao, and sometime. the Son of God. Judge•,
princes, rtnd grandees, are called gois in teveral patsages of
acripture. Exod. xxii, Jut verse. Psalm uii. 6. 1'he
ar<:bs, a11d Motel, that God &bowed him1elf in 'Vi1h,DI•
bvt St. Paul, ia his epistle to the Hebrews ii. 2, aaitUree Ul that it
waa only and not God hlmsclf, who the law,
!md ·Spoke to the holy patriarchs. Thus II God already reduc:ed
to be only an au.gel. In the New Testament, \he doctor» ar•
angel1.-!it. Matthew, Epiat.to Galatians i'V. l4, Uev. ii. &c,
Here t-henare reduccd to men. In short. the names ofgod..,
l#llft!lt, and •ni11t1, amo11g the Jews, were merely titles whic,\
were ,iveo alld taken, without aUachinlr an1 tft
Digitized byGoogle
houseotMary, whoae buabahd was abient. He ••·
lutes her, that is, pays hera compliment, which may M
translated as follows-" Good day, my dear· Mary!
you are indeed adorable-What attractions I what
.graces! ofall women,you are the most lovely in my
eyes. Your charms are pledges to you of my sinceri-
ty. . Crown then my passion. Fear not the COn&e•
• quences ofyoDr complaisance·; your husband is a sim·
pleton ; by visions and dreams we can make him be.o
)ieve wbatever we desire. The good man will regard
your pregnancy as the etfect of a miracle of the Most
High; he will adopt your child with joy, and all will
go on in the best ·manner poisible. " Mary, charmed
with these words, and little accustomed to receive the
like compliments from her husband, replied," Well!
-I yield-! rely on your word and address ; do witla
me asyou please. "
Nothingis more ea11y than to disengage the relation
ofSt. Luke from the marvellom. 'fhe event of Ma-
ry's pregnancy follows in the order or nature, and if
we substitute a young man in the place of the angel,
the passage of the evangelist will have nothing incre-
aible in it. In fact many have thought thiit the an·
tllem. This is confirmed by what Christ remarks in St. John :s:.
34, &c. To form a clear idea of the birth of Jesus, the reader
should consult the story of brother Lucius, in the tales of" La
Fontaine." According to the aprocryphal gospef of" the Nati-
vity of Mary," which Father Jerome Xavier entirely
Mary was consecrated to the Lord, and brought up in the tem-
Jile, which she did not leave till sixteen years ofage. Thismust
create a suspicion that hcr,pregnaocy was the effect of some in-
trigue of the priesta,who perhaps made her believe, that it was
GOd who had begot a child on ber--C•ie• .lp•cT!Jplt. H . T. 1•
U, IJe. ·
o,gitized by Coogle
p Gabriel was no other than a gallant, who,
ing by the absence of.Joseph, found the secret to de.-
c:lare and gratify his-
passion. ·
. We shall not stop to form conjectures on tlie true
name and station ofMary's lover. The Jews, whose
testimony on this may appear suspicious, as-
sert, as we shall afterwards relate, that this favourite
lover was a soldier ;-the milita.ry ha'Oe always claim1 •
on the hearts ofthe ladies. They add, that from his
commerce with the wife ofJoseph, the Mes!Oiah ofthe
Christians sprung; that the discontented husband let\
his faithless wife, in order to retire to Babylon, an(!
that Jesus with his mother went to Egypt, where he
)earned the trade of a conjurer, and afterwards re•
turned to practise in Judea.•
Whether these histories, or, if they will, Rabbi-
mica} fables, be true or false, it is certain that the nar-
rative of St. Luke, if not stripped of the marvellous,
will always present insurmountable difficulties to the
minds of the incredulous. They will ask, How God,
being a pure spirit, ofJer!hatro1!8 a woman, and ·
excite in her all the movements necessary to the pro-
duction of a child? They will ask, How the divine
nature could with the nature ofa woman ? They
will maintain, that the narrative is unworthy of the
power and majesty ofthe Supreme Being, who did not
eta.nd in need ofemployiog instruments as ridiculousa•
indecent, to operate the salvation of mankind. It
will be thought, that the Almighty should have
· • Such as are curious to see the history and fable• which the
Rabbis have made about Jesus, will lind them in a Hebrew book
translated into Latin under the title of Tolde• JeshUII, inserted, ill
the collection published by Wagenseil, to which we have aireadJ
referred.
o,9;,;zed by Coogle
ployed other means ror.oon veying Jesut into the 1t'oa
-of his mother; ·he might have inade ·him on
the earth without needing to be incarnate in the belly
of a woman ;• but there must be wonders in ro-
mances, and especially in religious. It was in all age•
11upposed that great men were born in an extraordinary
manner. Among the Heathetu;, Minerva sprung out
of the brain ofJupiter; Bacchus was preserved in the
• Theologhts have agitated the question, whether in the con·
ception of Christ, the Virgin Mary emirerit semen 1 According
to Tillemorrt, tom. ii. p. 5,lhe Gnostics, who lived in the time of
the apostles, denied even then that the Word was incarnate ill
the womb of the woman, and avtlrred that it had taken a •ody
only in ttppe11.rarrci1-a circumstance which mustdestroy the mira-
cle ofthe resurrection. Basilides, in like manner, maintains.that
Jesus was not incarnate. TiHemont, tom. ii. p. 221. St. Epiph..•
U1Jer1, ho:rat. Theodoret, htt!retic. faTJ. lib. i. p. 195. Lactantiu•.
in order to establish that the spirit of God could impregnatll a
'Virgin, cites the example of the Tbracian Mares, and other f&.
males, rendered prolific by the wind. Nothing is more indeee•t
and ridiculous than tile theological questions to which the birtl
of Jesus Chrtst baa given rise. Some doctors, to pre sene Mary's
.'Virginity, have maintained, that Jesus did aot come into the
world, like other men, aperttJ vulvtt, but ratherJUr vulvam clcu..
um. The celebrated John Seotus, on the contrary, regarded
that opinion as very dangerous, as it would follow, that "' Jesus
(britt could not be born of the Virgin, but " merely had
eat of her." A monk ofCiteaox, called Ptolemy de ..
firmCII that Jesus was engendered near the Virgin's. heart,
three drops of her blood.-Bibliotheque An,toise. tome ii. p.
The great St. Thomas Aquinas llat examined. whether
JesusChrist could not have beea an lterm11phrodilc 'J and whether
he could not have been of ge7tder 'I Othert hn•
Kitated the question, " Whether could bav& been incar..
itt a cow?" We may therefore see, how one absurdity ma1.
eJI,ender others, in thepolific minds of tbeologiit.. . . -
•
..,
'thigh or the same·god. Among the Chinese, the god
Fo was generated by a virgin, rendered prolific
by a ray of the sun. With Christians, Jesus is borri
•fa virgin, impregnated by the operation of the Hoi;}'
Ghost, aDd she remains a virgin aller that operation t
Incapable or'elevating themselves to God, men have
.made hint descend to their own nature; such is th8
tJrigin ofall incarnations, the belief of whieb is spread
tbrolJ!hout the
All the wonders, however, wbieh }K>eeede tl!e birth
ofJesus, ue terminated by a very natural oceurrenee•
.At the end ofniare months his mother is delivered like
aU .other women ; and after so many incredible and
aupernatural the Son· of God oomea into the
world all other people·s c"hildrew. This CORformit,1
in birth, will ever oecasion the surmise of a conformity
in the physiealeautes whieli producedtbe son_
ofMai',Y\
Indeed, the supernatural pt'Oduce tbe super•
mtutal; from material agents result phyaic:al ef·
fects; and·they 111aintain in the sehools, that there
must always be a parity of nature between eaoae. 8041
effect. ·
Though, aecordi'ng to Christiua, Je111s was at one
·and the same time man and God, pen!ORI! hal'd of belief
will say, it was necessary that the divine germ brought
&om heaven, "to be' deposited in the' womb of Mary,
ebould eontain at the same time botlt diYinityand 1»-
dy, to bi!epcaut SoJt of God. To use tbe language ol
theo.logi11ts, tbe hypostatic union of the two natures ia.
.Christ lllttst have taken plaee hefore his birth, aJtd •
mixed ii1 the womb of his mother. In that case, we- ,
cannot eenceiv·e how it could happen, that the divine
nature shotild continue torpid and inactive during th8
whole time of Mary's prt>gnancy, in so much that shC.
Digitized byGoogle
•
had not even been warned ofthe time of her in·
lying. The proof of this we find in St. Luke, ehap.
ii.-" In those days (says he) there went out a de·
cree from Cesar Augustus, that all the world should be
taxed. And as all went to be taxed, eyery one out oC
.• his own city, Joseph also wentouto£Nazareth---
and came to Betblehem,. to be taxed with Mary, wbo
was great with child. And so it wu, that while they
were there, the days were accomplished thatshe should
be delivered, and she brought forth her first born son,
and· wrapt him in swaddling clothes, and laid him in a
manger, because there was no room for them in the
inn."
This narrative proves that Mary was taken unpro·
•ided, and that the Holy Ghost, wbo bad done so ma-
ay things for her, had neglected to warn her of an
event so likely to interest him, and so important to all
mankind. The humanity of Jesull being subject to
nery casualty in our nature, might have perished ia
thisjourney, undertaken at a time •ery critical to his
aother. In Gne, we do not understand how the mo·
tber could remain in complete ignorance of .th.e
proximity of her time, and bow the Eternal could so
abandon the precious child be bad deposited in her
womb.
, Some other circumstances of the relation of St.
Luke preaent new difficulties. He speaks of a taxing
(enumeration) by order of Cesar Augustus :-a fact
of which no mention is made by any historian, Jew-
ish or profane.• We are also astonished to find
• We also add, that St. Luke asserts, tbie pretended tax-
ing was made under Quirinos or Cyreneua; but it.bu been de-
•ons!rated, tha' Quintiliua Varus was at tbe time governQr of
.. Digitized byGoogle
49
the son ofGod born in poverty, having no other asy·
lum than a stable, and no other cradle thfn a manger;
and at the tenderest age; in a rigOI'ous season, exposed
to miseries without number.
It is true, our theologists have found a way to an•
swer all thesedifficulties. They maintain, that a just
God, wishing to appease himself, destined, from the
beginning, his innocent son to aftlictions, in order to
have a motive for pardoning the guilty human race,
which bad become hateful to him through Adam'a
transgression, in which, however, his descendants had
110 share.* By an act ofjnstice, whereof the mind of
the province. Chriatian preachers and aeribes remark with de-
1ight, that the temple of Janus was abut, and that a profound
peace reigned throughout the whole worl;J at the time ofCbri1t'1
birth; but the falsehood of this fact bas been provetl in a book
published in i'lOO. See Bernard, Nouvelle• de la RepKblique de•
Letlf•e•, tome 1'5.
• After all, it appears, from the accomlt of the creation
aacribed to Moses, tbat the -hutBan race are not all the descell·
41ants of Adam 4 consequently they be·held partakers of -
bi1 guilt. In the tint chapter of Genesis, God is said to have
.created man out of noth:ing. Ill the aecond chapter, Adam is re·
Jlre•entedaallaviog been formed eftluJ clq ofthe ear.lh. No re-
.trictt4ms whatever aa to what tlley 1bould eat, were imposed on
the men who were created of nothing. " Behold (said God to
them) I have given you every herb bearingseed upon earth, and
all trees which have in them seed according te their kind,
that it may be to you for meat." To Adam, however, be aaid •
"Thou mayest eat of everytree in the garden 4 lfut ofthe tree of
knowledge of good and e¥il thou 1halt not eat, for in the day
thou eatest of it thou shalt die the death." In the first crea-
tion, man and woman were formed at the same moment, and the
di&tiuguished by the terms male and female. But it wa1
11et till after a proper helper could not be found for Adam
.amDng the fir•t creation, that God •aid, " Let Ul make a helpor
H
•
•
Digitized by Google
man ean form ne idea, a God, essence rcndE>rt
him incapabie ofcommiting sin, is loaded with the ini·
quities ofman, and must expiate them in order to dis-
arm the indignation of a futher he bas not otfendt>d.
8uca are the inconceivable principles which serve for
the basi& of tbe Claristiall theology.•
Our doctors add-It was the will of God that tlae
birth of his Son should be accompanied with the same
accideJat!l ai that ofOther men, 10 COnsole the latter for I
the attendant on their )lao,
aay tbey, is guilty before be is hom, because all' chil-
dren are bound to pay the debts of tkeir fathers:-
thus man suffers justly as a sinner l1imself, and as
with the sin ofhis first father. Granting this,
what more consolatory to us than seeing a God, inno-
eeace and holiness itself,suffering in astable all the evils
attached to indigence! That consolation would have
been wanting to men, if God bad ordained that his
like unto himself-and God sent a deep sleep upon Adam, mul
wben he had slept, God took one of ribs, and filled up
flesh for it." Of tbis rib a companion was made for Adam.
which, of himself, be called • woman. These two distinct crea•
lions prove fatal to the dogma, that Christ died for 1111 men. Hi•
death cannot be beneficial to those who are not the descendants
of Adam, &ecause, unless he is acknowledged the father ()fall
mankind, his tran8greesion cannot be imputed to the whole hu-
man race. It must therefore be confined to the Jews only.
1Vhicb clears lhe Gentiles of the sin of and also of the ne-.
eelllity of an atonement for guilt, in which they could not pos-
•ibly participate. We are at a lou to know, by what ingenuity
our Christian doctors will attempt to get rid of this difficulty.
• Tbe sacrifice ofthe Son ofGod is mentioned asa proof of his
benevolence. Is it not rather a proof of his ferocity, cruelty.
:md implacable vengeance? A good Christian ou his death bed
said," he had never been ahle to conceive how a g()()tl God could
put an innocent God to death to appease aj111t God.''
•
• Digitized byGoogle
61
eon shoulJ be born in splendour, and an abun4ance or
the comforts of life. Ifthe innoceat Jesus had not
fered, mankind, incapable ofextinguishing a debt con•
tracted by Adam, would have•been for ever exclurled
from Paradise. As to the painful journey Mary waa
obliged to undertake in sucb critieal .
this occurrence bad been foreeeen by eternal wisdom,
which had resolved, that Christ should be born at Beth·
lebem, and not at Nazareth. It was OMe&sory-
having been foretold, it behoved to be accolllplished.
However solid these answers may appear to the
ful, they are not capable of convincing the incredulou•·
Unbeliet·ers exclaim against the injustice of making a
most innocent God and loading him with the ini•
quities oftbe earth; neither can they conceive. by what
principle ofequity the Supreme Being could make the
human race £esponsible for a fault committed by their
first parents, without their knowledge and participa-
tion l They maintain,that, in fair jllslice, cl\ildren &ave
a right to renounce the succession of their parents,
when they ha,·e to pay out oftbe estate debts which the
latter have contracted. The incredulous remark, that
the conduct attributed to God by the Christian mytho··
logy, is injurious to him, in so far as it rept"esents him
as the most implacable, the most cruel, and the most
unjust oftyrants.* Finally, th£>y.eontend that it would
have been wiser to have man from commit·
ting sin than to permit him to sin, and make his own
Son die to expiate man's iniquity.
With respect to the journt>y to Bethlehem, we
not discover the of it. The place where tbQ
Saviour of the world was to be born, seems a circum•
perfectly indifferent to the 11alvation of man•
• Sec Appendix, No. I.
oigiti_zed byGoogle
kind. As for. the prophecy announcing the glory ot
Bethlehem, in ha,•ing given existeore to the " Lea..
der oflsrael"-it does not appear to agree with Je-.
sus, who was bom there in a stable, and who was re-.
jeeted by the people whose leader be was to be. It is
only a pious .straining that can make this prediction
apply to Christ. We are indeed assured, that it had
been foretold Jesus was to be born in poverty 1 while,
on the other band, the Messiah of the Jews is gene-
rally announced by the prophets as a prince, a hero,
and a conqueror. It is necessary then to know which
of these we ought to adopt. Our doc-.
tors, will not fail to tell us, the predictions an•
nouncing that Jesus would be born and live in indi-
gence and meanness, ought to be taken literally, and
those which announce his power aud glory ought to
be taken allegorically." But this solution will not sa-
tisfy the incredulous; they will atlirm, that employing
this manner ofexplanation, they will always find in
the sacred writings whatever they may think tht>y
stand in need ot: They will conclude, that the scrip·
ture is to Christians what the clouds are to the
..;bo imagines he in wbatever figures
lte pleases•.•
• The prolD-KDspel, ucrilted to SL James, relates some
c:urioua and ridiculous circumstances, on which none of our.
four cauonia.J evaugelists have wished to rely ; yet they
have nothing revolting. lc,> persons who posseu faith enough•.
'I'bis proto-gospel informs us, for example, of the ill humour
of Joseph on seeing wife pregnant, and the reproaches lie
10:Ueti her with on account of her lewdness, unworthy, ac.-
c:ording to it, of a virgin reared under the eyes of priest•.
Mary excuse• h«U"self ..itb she. protest• her
and " •wears in the name of the living God, •he is ignorant
Digitized by Coogle
(
4
r
L
from wbenc:e the c:bild bas come to hP.r." It appears, that h'
ber distress, she had forgot the adventure ofGabriel :-thatanget
came tbe night following to encourage by a dream poor Joseph,
who, on his part, wa• on tho point of having an affair with the .· •
priests, who accused him of having palmed this child, to the pte;<'
judice of Mary's vow of virginity. On this the priests made-:ttl•."
·two spouses drink of the of that is, of a potion, · · . . ,
which, by a miracle, did them nq ipjuJy; the higfa priest, there- .. ..·..
fore, declared them most innocent. ·
' ···
ltjs related in the same gospel, that after Mary had
'been delivered, Salome, refu-ing to c:rcdit the midwife who at-
sured her that the delivered was still a virgin, laid her hand on
Mary ia order to satisfy benelf of the fact. this
rash hand felt itself on tire; but stae -was cured on taking the
fitUe Jeans in her arm1. Codez .tpocr. N. T. tome i, p,
Jl,.
Digitized byGoogle
M
CHAPTER IlL
.Al>ORJ.TIOlli OF THE MAGI AND SREPHERDS-UA.S!IA.C&£ OP
THE INNOCENTS ;-A!'ID OTHER CIRCUMSTANCE&,
WHICH FOLJ.OWED THE Bli.TU· OP
.JESUS CHRIST.
OF the fuur historians of Jesus adopted by the
church, two are who11y silent on the facts we to
relate in thi!nhapter ; and St. Matthe\Y and St. Luke
who ha-
ve transmitted them, are not atall unanimous ia
particulars. So discordant indeed are their relations,
l ti·
that the ablest commentators do not know how
cile them. These differences, it is true, are less per-
ceptible when the Evangelists are read the one
afler the other, or without reflection ; but they become
particularly striking: when we take the trouble of com:.
paring them. This is undoubtedly the reason why
we have hitherto bad no concordauce of the gospels,
which recei\'ed the general approbation ofthe church.
Even those which have been printed, have not been
universally adopted, though it must be aclmowledged
that they contain nothihg contrary to faith. It is perhaps.
from judicious policy, that the heads_
of the church have
not approved of any system on this point; they have
probably felt the impossibility of reconciling narratives
10 discordant as those of the four Evangelists; for th•
Digitized byGoogle
,
r
Holy Ghost, doubtless with a view to exercise the
faith of the faithful, has insp.ired them very .differ•
· ently. Besides, an able concordance of the Gospels ·
would prove a very dangerous work :-it would .ne·
cessarily bring together facts related by •uthors, who,
very far from supporting, would only reciprocally weak·
each other-a circumstance which could DOt fail to
.etagger at least the faith of the compiler.
St. Matthew, who, according to common opinion,
wrote the first history ofJesus, asserts, that as soon
as Chrii!it was born, and while he was still in the stable
at Bethlehem, Magi came from the East to
and enquired where the king of the Jews was, whose
star they had observed in their own country. He-
rod;who then reigned in Judea, being informed of the
motive oftheir journey, consulted the people of the
law ; and ba,·ing learned that Christ was tG be
born at Bethlehem, he permitted the Magi to go
there, recommending to them to infOrm themseh·es
exactly of this child, that he himself anigllt do him.
homage.•
It appears, from the narrative of St. Matthew, that
ns soon as the Magi left Herod, they took the road to
Bethlehem, a place not far from Jerusalem. It is
tnll'prising that this prince, at the anival of
the Magi, who had thus announced the birth of a
king ofthe Jews, dad not take·more precaution to allay
his own uneasiness, and that of the capital, wbkh the
gospel represents as in a state of consternation at this
grand event. It would have been very easy for him t•
have satisfied himself of the fact, without being under
the necessity ofrelying on strangers, who did not exe•
• St. Matthew ii. 2. &c.
Digitized byGoogle
eute his commill8ion. The Magi did not return:" Josepb
had time to save himselfand hie little family by flight;
Herod remained tranquil in spite of his suspicions and
fears. It was not till aftera considerable interval that
he got into a passion on finding himself deceived; and
then, to preserve his crown in safety, he ordered a ge•
neral massacre of the children of Bethlehem and the
neighbouring villages! But why suppose such conduct
in a sovereign, jealous, distrustful, and cruel? This
prince had assembled the doctors of the law and priuei-
pal men of the nation ; their advice bad confirmed the
rumour spread by the wise men ; they said it was at
Bethlehem that Christ was to be born, and yet Herod
did nothing for his own.tranquillity I Either Herod had
faith in the prophecies of the Jews, or be did not be-
lieve them. In the first case, and iustead of relying
on strangers, be ought himself to have gone, with all
his court, to Bethlehem, and paid homage to the Sa,·iour
of tht> nation. In the second case, it is absurd to make
Herod order a general massacre of infants, on account
ofa suspicion founded on a prophecy which he did not
believe.
. Neither do we fi.hd that this prinee•s indignation
was roused till after the lapse ofse,·eral days, and after
he perceived that tbe Magi derided him, and returned
by another road. Why did be not learn by the same
means, the O.ight ofJesus, of Jo;;eph, and his mother l
rrheir retreat must certainly have been observed in a
place so small as Bethlehem. It will perhapsbe said, that.
God on tbi11 occasion, permitted Herod to be blinded;
but God should not have permitted the inhabitants of
Bethlehem and its environs to be so obstinate in pre-
serving a secret that was to cost tbe lives ofall their
children. Possessed of the power of workinc mira·
o;gitizedbyGoogle .
tit
e\es; could not God havesaved his son by more
tie means than tbe useless massacre of a great num.;.
her of innocents ?-On the other hand; Herod trd
not absolute master in The Romans would
not· have permitted him to exereiee such cruelties ;
and the Jewish nation, persuaded of the birth of
Christ; would not have been aceessary to A
King ofEngland; more than a petty sovereign
of Judea; dependent on the Romans; would not bd
obeyed, were be to order his guards to go anil cut the
throats of all the children in a neighbouring village;
becau$8 three strangers, in passing through London;
bad said to him; that among the infants born in that
village there was one; who, atcording to the rides of
judicial astrology! was destined to be one day king of
Great Britain; At the tiine when astrology wu in
vogue, they wodld have contented themselves with
cliosing search to be made fbr the suspected infant;
they would have kept it in solitary eonfinement, or
perllaps put it to death ; but without comprehending
other innoceht children in its proscription. .
We n1ight indeed oppose to the relation of Matthew
the silence of the other enngelists, and especially
that ofthe historian Josephus, who, having reasons to
hate Herod1 woul4 not have failed to relate a fact so
likely to render him odious as the massacre ofthe in•
Philo is likewise silent on the subject;
and no reason can be divined why these two cele·
brated historians should have agreed in concealing
afilet so horrible.· We cannot suppose it bas proceed-
ed from hatre;l to·the Christian religion ; for that de·
tacbed fact would pro,·e neither for nor against it. We
are, therefore, warrdnted to conclude that this massa-
.cre is a fable; and that Matthew seeJJll to have in·
1
Digitized byGoogle
•atei it merely to ha\-e the opporluAit1 ofappl,ing aa
aadent propbeey, wbiela was his preckmainanttaste.
But in this instQnce he has deceived him·
aelf. 1'be prophecy which lae applies to the ffi1181aere
of the ionoceats, is taken from Jeremiah. All. the
Jews understood it at relath\3 to tlee Babylonislt cap·
tivity. It is conceived as follews : "The Lord batl1
said, the voice of lamentations, SrtJaniaga, and bitter
tears, ltas beea heard from on hi3h of Jbc\lae" who
weeped rot her children, and to \Je cnafort.d
for them, because tJaey were oot.''-'rhe ,followill3'
verse is so plain, that i.t is incoRceivahle wlayl\la,\bew
has veetared to apply it to the pretended ma!ISaere at
Bethlehem:-" Thus saith the Lord (contW.ues Jue•
mil\ft), refrain thy voice front weeping, and thine ey.,_
from tears; for thy WOork shall be rewuded, aad th1
ehildren shall come again from the Janel of the e....
my." Tfleir return &om the eaptidty is he.e ol.rtJ
pointed out, when tlae Israelites should agaU. phnt
vines after obtaining possession oftheir own country.
It is also to accoatplish a prophecy, that the same
St. ·Matthew &takes Jesus into Egypt. Tb&..
journey, or ·rather Christ's ret.rn, bad,
to m-, bee1i. predicted ., Hosea in tbe&e W·Ofdat
"Out of Egypt have I called my son." But it is evi..
dent, that this passage ia to be considered auly as re-o
latiog te the deliverance oi the lsl'aelites froiU
qe, through the ministry of Mosea.· Be.idea., &he ·
jouneyaadabode ofJesus ia Egypt, do not agree in
any wit" somecircumstances whieh bappoue•
in. the infiulcy ofChrist, as related by St. I...uke, who iu.
fowms us, that aUbe end of days Jeslis was cir·
cumcised. The time of Mary'11 purification
com:pnucd:, aa:ording to the law of Moses, Joseph and
Digitized byGoogle
Jals mot.l&er carried Chri&t to in order t•
laim to the J...ord, agre:eably to the law whicb
ordained Ihe consecraling to him the first born
and otferiog a sacrifice for them. ()n this occar
sion, Luke tells us, that old Simeon took the infant ill
Lis arms, and declared in the presence ofall the people
assisting at the ceremony, that the child was the Sa·
"iour of .An old prophetess, called Anna,
aloud thesame testimony in his favour,and spoke ofhira
to all tbo&e who look'd for the redemptiou of the JewL
B•t why were speeches thus publicly made in the
temple of.Jerusalem, in which city Herod resided, un•
known to a prince.so ? They were much
better calculated e](cite his uneasiness, and. awake
hi11 jealoUBy, than the anival of astrologers from the
Did Joseph and Mary, who came to Jerusalem for the
presentation of Jesus, and purification of his mother,
return to Bethlehem ? and went they from thence into
Egypt in place ofgoing to Nazareth? St. Luke saya
indeed, most expressly, that wlten they bad performed
all things according ,to the law of the Lord, they re..
turned into Galilee, to their own city Nazareth. But
in Wlbat time did the parents of Jesus all
that the law .ordained? .Was it before going into
Egypt, 9J' after their return from that country, where,
to St. Matthew, they bad taken refuge to
shelter themselves from the cruelty of Herod? In a
word, did the purificati<m ofthe virgin, aod the presen•
tation of her son in the temple, take place before or
after the death of that wicked prince l According to
Leviticus, the purification ofa mother who bad brought
a.!IOfl into the world, was ·to 1te maoo at the end of
thirty days•.. Henoe Wtt see bow difficult it is to
o;gitize.,by Google
t'eeOncite the tight into Egypt, and the massaere or
innocents, which St. :Matthew relates, with the narra•
tive of St. Luke, who says, that, " after having ....
formed the ordinances of the law, JoFepb and Mary
returned \nto Galilee, to their 0\\•n city Nazareth
,nd then add11, " they went to lerusalem every yeal'
to celebrate the passover." 1f we eoold adopt the
relation of the two evangelists, at what tim!! are we
to place the coming oftbe Magi from the East in Ol"-
der to adore Christ; the anger ofHerod ; the flight into
Egypt; and the masaacre ofthe innocents? We are
forced to conclude, either that the relation ofSt. Luke
is defective, or that St. Matthew wished to deceive bis
readers with improbable tales. In whatever way we
eonsider the matter, the Holy Ghost, wbo inspired
these will either ca.se be found to hu•
committed a mistake.
There is another fact on whieh our two
do not better agree. St. Matthew, as we have
makes the Magi come to Bethlehem from the exta-emity:
of the East, to adore the child Jesus, and offer him pre..
sents. St. Luke, less taken with the marvellous,
makes this child be adored -by simple shepherds, who
watched their flocks during night, and to whom an
angel announced the great event of the birth of the
Saviour of Israel. The latter evangelist spe:tks nei-
of the apparition oftbe star, nor of the c01uing of the
Magi, nor ofthe cruelty of how..
ever, whieh ought to have been recorded by St. Luke,
who informs us that he was so informed of·
every thing concerning
Whatever may be in this, the parents
tber after return froDl Egypt, or afte_
r his presen...
in the temple, went to reside at.
• Digitized byGoogle
fJl
St. Matthew, as usual, perceives in this the accMO.
plishment of the-prediction, he slwll be a
rene; but unfortunately for his purpose, this prophe.,
c.,r is not to be found io the Bible, nor can it be dr...
l'ined by whom it uttere41. It is however cer•
tain, that Nazarene among the Jews, signified
·gt:Wond, a persou ncluded from the reat pf the world ;
tl.t Nazareth was a very pitiful town, inhabited by
hinge so wretehed that their poverty bad become pro1
-verbial; and that beggars, vagrants, and peopltl
pobody would own, were called Nasarenes,*
• It is of importance to remark, that the first Cbristians were>
_.yled We find them also designed Ebwmles, derived
from a Hebre'jV wprd whij:IJ signifies a f(&endicant, a 111retch,, and a
tttJUJier. Every body knows that St. Francis and St. Dominic, who..
in the 13th century, proposed to revive prilllitive Christianity,
.founded orders of mendicant monks, to live solely
alms, to be true Nazarene•, and to levy contributions on the
c;om10unity, wl)iclt these vagabonds have never ceased to op(lress,_
.Salmeron, in qrder to re..auimate these mendicant has.
1Jlaintaine4 Jesus Christ a beggar. Be that as it
play, iJ is not here to make some r.
emarks on the
wbicfa will throw great lig!tt on the history of Chris·
tianity. It is well known, that Dame of was given.
\O tfte an4 Jews, who. were coqverte!l. The Jews,
fegarde4 (miuian), and l'er-
tons; and, St. Jerome, aoathematjsed them in all
synagogues, under the name of St. Hierong111•
.[£pi1t. ad i!J. itt l111ilnn. v. lfi. The Jews at present give the
-name of (Nozerim) to. the Christians, whom tQe AralHJ
caU Nazari. The first Jews, e(mvertec:\ b)' Jesus
his were only some Jews: they preserved..
(ircunu:isioq oJher usage• appointed by the lllw of Motet.
(say• St. Jerome '• ita Christum recipiunt, ut
non amittant, Ad. Jes. 8." In this the.J.
followed the example of Jesu•, who being an.4
f .,Jc:w hie whole life, often no-.
Digitized byGoogle
We ween, i11 the eoorae of this clntpter, laow
little hannony exists between the two enngt>liets,
respecting the cirtamstnnces attending the birth ef
Jesus. Let us now e:xamine what could haYe beeo
tbe views orthese writer& itt relating these fitetlf
10 very ditferent)y.
· It at least intpotlllihle that I Mus, • St. l..ulie re-
lates, could coostaatl! reside at· t;H he W88l
welve yeara ofage, if it be ttue tbdt he was cnried
10ea aler his birth into Egypt, wbent 8t..Matthew
eessary to respect and r,}uene Ute 'law. Yet in procea tim4t
tile Nazarenes, or !bionites. were lly the otber
(frristlans, for having united the or the law witt.
tfle gospel of Christ. St. Jerome, speaking of them :tnd the
.lisciples of Corinthus, says, .. Qui (Ebioni et f1erintl'lieui) cre-
ieutes in Cbriste, prOl'ter hoc II'Otum a patrih-8 amtlbe'matizati
qnod legit t:eremo niu Christi Sic
JtOYa confeslli suat, ut ntera non amitterent. St. ltietoa. iu
.!pistol ad It &eems, that in acting thns, the !bio-·
llites, or Nazarenes, conformed· themselves to tlre intentions ot
Jesus and his apostles. It itt, Ulerefore, surprising to see them
treated afterwards as heretics. But we wift see (in chap. IT.)tb&
true caute or this change It was owing t() St. Paul.
-whose party preniled over that ofSt. PeteY, the otllerapostfes,
ed the Nazarene• or Judalsiag Cbrlstia'IUt. Thus St. Paul cor-
rected and reformed the tystem of Jema Cllrist, wllo bact
preached only a Judaism reformed. 'l'fre. apottle of· tbe Gen.-
tiles succeeded in making bli master, and his otct comratfes, be
regarded as heretics, or bad Christians. Thus it is, that tlreolo-
gists frequently take the liberty of reetif'ying the religlo11 &f the-
they adore.! Moreover, the Nanrt>nes bad a in
Jlebrew very different from the one we and wbich waa
llftrikteclto St. See Toland, in a work pubHsbed nn-.
.ter the title of in oetavo-, London, I.Tl8. Ae-.
cording to tbat gospel, the Nuarenes did not believe in the di•
'tinily of Chrilt. ·
•
Digitized byGoogle
•
tnakel him reaaa.in UJtil the death of lterocl.· EfeQ
·in tiane that lived, he was upbraidro with Iii•
stay in Egypt.• His.enemica averred tlaat be there
learned magj,c_, t.o whicb they attrib8led tlw wondera, ur
tricks, 'beY'"'' a..im perb-... St. Lulw, $o
these has tltoa1bt proper to be tileat
.- to the ro Egypt, wbioh Made hie aero INt•
peded. He ix• t.im, at Nautetb, ao.l
.akes bira p f6Very year with ltis parents 'o Jerusalem.
a.-the pretllloti4MI of that evanplittt aeema to ha.-e
been useless. St. Matthew, who wrote before him,ha4
eMabllsheci thejeUI'neyud abodeef Jesus in Egypt.
Oripa, ia hia distmte witb Celsus, does aot · dewy MJ
Heace we see, that the Chri8dan doetors did 111ot doubt
Jesas bad been in that eountry, notwithstofMiinlf
tbeailenee ofS.t. Let us eadeaYour tbea to ..to..
.elope the motiw!s of tliese two wl'iMrs.
Tla•Jews iD ia tile expl'CtntioA of a
or DeliYerer; but 81t the di6reft.t ord:ers
of tile stUe bad tbeir .,.-opt.et11, they .t.o. po88868ed
diftitrent sigas wbio• they were tG know the Mes4
•hlh. Ta..great, thericll, a-nti pereo•s welt
did dot nreliy espect tllat the deliverer oflwae) should
be born in a stable, and sprung from the dr• of the
people. They tmdoubtedty expectedtheir deliverance
a warriOr, a taaaofpower, able. to mak6
hilllSelfre!lpected by the nations inimical to Judea, and
• The gospel of the infancy of Christ, ascribed to the
apostle St. Thomas, makestfte holy family traver ittto Egypt, and
Jc&ua ;o from city t·() city, working miracles sufficient to
procure them a comfortable The water Mary usetf
In her child, cored lepers, and persons posseued with
deTihrt the presence of Christ made the idols fall down, &c.-
Codex Apoc. tome l. p. 182.
•
Digitized byGoogle
tt:J break in pi&es their chains. The poor, on.the eoi1l
trary, who, as well as the great and the rich, have their
portion ofselfJove, thought tbey might flatter tbemJ
selves that the Me88iab would be bolit in their
Their nation and their neighbours furnished many ex·
amples ofgrtat men sptung froni the bO&om ofpoverty ;
and the orae)es. with this nation was fed were
of such a nature, that every family believed itself
tied to aspire to tile honour ofgiving birth to a Mes•
siah ; though the most general opinion wus, tbst tllis
4eliverer was to come of the race of David.
Admitting this, shepherds and people of the lowest
order might readily believe, that a woman; delivered id
a stable at Betblehm1 bad brought the Christ into
the world. It may likwiee be presumed, that Mary,-
'ffitb a view to render herselt interesting, said to those
who visited her, thatehe was descended hm the blood
ofkings-a pretension well adapted to excite"the com-
ntiseration and wonderment of the people.: Thi•
seeret1 and the confused remembranee of some prophe·
cies about Bethlehem, the natife of David,
were auftlcient to operate en tbe imaginations of these
credulous people, little scrupoloaa about proo& of
what was told them.
St. Matthew, who reckoned on the credu1ity of his
readers,• had his bead full ofprophecies ani popalat
• Men are always as credulous as children upon refigio\ur
•objects. At they comprehend nothing about it, and are never.;
theless told that they must believe it, they imagine tkey r11n no
risk injoining sentimetftl with the priests, whom they suppose.
to have succeeded In discovering that which they do oet
•taod. The most rational people ask. themselvet, ,. What shal•
we do ?-what interest can so many people have to deceive}'..
To these we say, they do deceive you, either becaute they are
,
Digitized byGoogle
aotlom. To fill up a blankof thirty yean ill Jail hiM017
ofJesus, he cootrind to make hi• tm"l inte Egypt,
without foreeeting t-he objections that be INdo
en account of the n•lect of the holy family to fulil
the ordinances ofthe law ; snob as tile tirc&uoc:isioo ef
tbe child, his prese.tatioa in t\e teJnple, the purii,.
catioa of his aaotlter, and tile celebration ofdae passe•
ver-ceremoniet wlaichcould oftiybe perfomtei at Je-
rusalem. Perhaps it is to justify thejout'neJ to
and those oegliga.ees, that St. 1\IMthew introd.n
the prophecy of Hosea relative to the retum from that
plaoe. It seeaaa atso to juetify the deration •f.JeMIB's
abode tltere, that be relates the wra6 ofHetad, ,ni
the.fable·of the m888acre ol the inaocents, wbiela h
makes tlaat pri•ce orott', tlaouglt bis en.••ad, ia
other respects, rendered bim waScieatly o4iotR to the
Jews as weU:• to •tnlngen. Mankind in
aposed to believe, every iMnrofa man Mcome ·-
JbOUS for IH8 wicked.ne88.
St. LaR, toelade the mproathet which itt his time
aight be throw• eo Jesus, oa acceuot.C hie l'ellli.Juc.
andjoumey \aa not meatienei it at all;
ttot bia silence d•es not destroy its reality. lt wu
oeeeuary, to free a.rist from t&e 1118piciea ef macic.
-
6ewlllll'fet deceiml, •r becauae tile,- haft a .iatereat ia
ieeeivt.g you.-KnuaACIP.
Credulity, aayw Beh•eti••· i' partly the etfect of indolence.
We have been habituated to believe a thing that is abeur4 1 die
falaity of such a belief is suspected ; but to be fnlly Dtide4 re.
qnirea the fatigue of examination. This we are not fer lin._.
going; aad thus chooae rather to helieve than examine. In auch
4ispoaition. the . most conviac:.ing proof of lbe faleit_y of aa
epiaioa will always appear insu6i.cient. Every weak reuooinJ
tersuaclo15 everyl'idieuloua Jto-:y is belined, .
Digitized byGoogle
but be luis not cleared him. of accusations· brought
again-this birth, which are quite as weighty. ·
Celsus, a celebrated physiciao1 who lived in the se•
cond century of Christianity, and who had carefully
eollected all which had been published againRt Christ,
asserts that he was the fruit of adultery. Oragen, in
his work against Celsus, has preserved this accusation,
but he has not transmitted the prooftt on which it wa11
founded. Uobelievers, howe\·er, have endeavoured
to supply them;and found the opinion of Celsas on
lthat follows :-
. First. From the testimooy ofSt. Mattbew it
is most certain that Joseph was very much di88atisfiod
with the of his wife, in which he had no
part.' He formed tlie design of quitting her secretJy,
and without noise; a resolution from which he was di-
'terted by an angel, or dream, or perllaps reflection,
which alwilys passes among Jews for the eft'ect of an
inspiration from on high. It however, that
· this 'design·ofJoseph bad transpired, and was after-
wards turned illto a matter of reproach against Jesus.
But St. Luke,. more pradeut than St. Matthew, baa
not ventured to mention either the ill humour of Jo-
seph', or the good-natured conduct he followed.
Neither do we find, though he formed this resolu-
tion as'to his wife's amour, that this easy man agaim
on the stage from the time Jesus entered ora
it. .We are no where informed of his death, and it is
obvious that he never afterwards beheld his putative
with an .eye of kindness.• When, at thirty yeara
• St. Epiphanius, lib. i. 10. of Heresie, assures ut, that Jo-
teph was very old ·at the time of liis marriage with the Yirgin r
aud adds, t.bat be was a widower, and father of tix children
Digitized byGoogle
ofage, Jesus and his mother went to the wedding at
Cana, there is no mention of Joseph. If we admit,
ltith St. Luke, the history ofJesus's dispute with the
doctors in the temple of we will find a new
proofof the indifference reigned between the
pretended father and supposed son : met at the
end of three days, and deigned not to interchange a
word. .
Secondly. If to these presumptltlns are joined testi-
monies more positive, and a high antiquity, which con-
firm the suspicions entertained concerhing the birth of
Jesus, we will obtain proofs that must convince every
unprejudiced person. The Emperor'Julian, as well as
Celsus, who bofh carefuily exami.ied'all the writings
existing in their tiine, for and against the Christian
religion and its author, represent the mother ot'Jesus
.as a prostitute, living by her debaucheries, and turned
off by her betrothed. From the- beginning of Chris-
tianity, the sect of Antidicomarites regarded Jesus as a
kstard. In the works of the Jews, be is treate>d as an
adulterous child; and, almost in owr days, Helvidius,
a learned critic, as wem as Se\'eral others,
bave not only that Jesus was the fruit
of a criminal intercourse, but also that Mary, repudi..
ated by Joseph, bad other children by different hus-
bands. Besides, this supposed virgin did not want a
reason ror forsaking Joseph, and flying into Egypt with
herson. A prevailing tradition among the Jews states,
his first wife. According to the fi1'Dio..goapel ascribed to St.
James the Young, tbe good milo had much difficulty in prevail-
jog on himselfto espouse Mary, whoseage intimidated him; but
the high priest con-vinced him, finding perhaps that Joseph was
the man most conformable to his -viewa. Codex. Apocryph. N. T.
i. V· 88, &c. Tbia teem• to i01inuate a tacerdotal intri:ue.
Digitized byGoogle
tllat ahe made 'bis jo.umey toshelter herself fNm tb•
pqrsuit of her spouse, who, in spite of the nocturnal
visions which bad been employed to pacify him,
might have 4elivered her up to the rigour ofthe laws.
We know th"t the Hebrews did not undentand jesting
on this subject.
We also find in the Talmutl* the name of Panther,
surnamed Bar-Panther, whom they reckon in the num-
ber ofthe sallaots, or:husbaods of the Virgin. From
thence it wotUd appear, that 1\fary, repudiated by
Joseph, or after her flight, espoused Panther, an
Evptian soldier, her favourite lover, and the real fa..
therofJesus. St. John Damaseeoe thought to repair tbe
injlii'J which this anecdote might do to Mary's repu-
tation. by sa;yin& that the name of B11r-Ptmther was
Jiereditary iia the family of Mary, and consequently
in that of Joseph. But, 1st, either Mary was not the
kilaswolQan of Josepb, or she was not tho cousin ef
• Ill a pqblitbe4 t\•rieg Jelll• by Solo.._
Bennet, a :Pelisb Jew, eotiu.d " Tbe Couatanc)l of IKael," we.
find the followinr account of the Talmud :-Th.is extensiove
work is a commentary ou the Bible ancl the Mishnah; the content&
tilereof include all the juridical, criminal', ritual, conjugat, ancl
agricultnrat hnvs at large. It was produced' by mens ofcOT•
MlpOntleace alllong, th.. cliifer•at cellege., established ia pluee
lite Jows were di•per•ll. lt31 way•f poleaical quelbea'
•ad debate.. It c;olltaiu• also. moral
ethics. and various allegorical phrase&• All these cJoctrines wero
collected into one work, which bears the title of the 'Talmud;'
._ich wu coucluded b.J Ralliaan whe J\a,.
bina. Q.d Rubi tile chief d4lctou in Assyria. and the
tint prOillo\Cra of They also
branches of \be sciences, aa aod claro--
nelo:y a all of whicb. W«jre iG the ):Car of \be
IWi Qlif,iM
Digitized byGoogle
I
'
Elizabetb, w\o was married &o a priest, and tlaerefore of
the tribe ofLe,i.-2dly, We DO where find in the Bible
tile D&Qie ofPattlher among the descendants of David.
)f this bad beell aa hereditary surname in that family,
it would be found somewhere, unress we au.ppote
that John Damascene has learned it by a particular re•
nfatioa. Sdly, The name ofPather: is by ao meana
Hebrew.
It will perhaps be said, tltat these, so
rious to Jesus and his mother, are ealumoies iaYented
by tiM enemies of the Christian religi011. But wlt1
eecid9, iftbe pleas ofbotltpartiesare not investigated !
The imputations are very ancient; they have been ad..
apiast Christians ever since tlae origin of theW
reli1ion ; and they have uver satismctorily refuted
the•. In the time of Jesas, we ind that his coate....
poraries reprded his wonders ae the el"ects of magic,
1he delusions of the de,·il, the consequences of the
power of BeelJJel.ult, or sltght of hand tricks.• In
particular, tile relatioa efJesus were of tlaat opt.ioo,
and r•nied him as an iapostGr--a circuaataace sta•
tecl ia the G•pel itsel4 wlwre we shall aftenra*
6nd that they wanted to ·arrest him. On the
• We en oppote te the miracles of and Cht'ist, tho•
perf•rmed hy Mahomel, ·ia JIIMeeDCe o.f all Mecc:a aao
a.vembied! The ell'ed of lbe propllet't m._,a.tles waa at Jeaet tQ
convince the Arabi110s, that lte was a divine person. 'I'he mi-
racles ofJesu1 convinced nobody of his mission. St. Paul him-
telf, who afterwardJ became the mosl ardent of his disciples,
was not ceovinced by the miracleR, of which, in his time, there
exieted so many witneSBes ; a now one was neceuary for his coap
veniol\o By what right than do tbey, at lbis da.y, demand be.
lief of whiclt.coQld not con.vinc:e even iu tb,e tiae of
the apostle., oQ!y 11 t.ime aflc:r theJ weN wroui.bU
Digitized byGoogle
,
hand, Jesus never speaks ofhis infancy; nor ofthe time
that had preceded his pre-dching. There is every rea-
son to believe, he did not love to recur to circum-
.stance& dishonourable to his mt>tber ; towards whom
indeed we shall very 100on find him fai.ling in filial res•
pect.
'fbe evangelists, in like manner, pass very. 'Slightl1
9ver the first years of their hero's life. St. Matthew
maJ-es him return from Egypt on the death of Herod,
without mentioning in what year that happened. He
th.us leaves his commentators in an emharrassment, n
to whether Jesus \vas then two or ten years old. We find
indeed, that the term of ten years is, through complaj...
&&nee, invented on accoant ofthe dispute between him
and the doctors ofJeru!lalem, which St. Luke at
his twelfth year. This excepted, Jesus di!!appeared
ti·orn the scene, not to shew again till thirt.1
years ofage.•
It is difficult to discover what be did until that age.
Ifwe eredit St. Luke, be remained at Nazareth. Yet
there is reason to believe that he \YBS semewhere else-,
for the pu.rpose of learning the part which he was
terwards to ploy. If' be had always resided at Naza.
•J'eth, the inhabitants of that small town would have
known him perfectly. Very far from this ;....-they are
surprised at seeing btm, when thirty years ofage. Tbe1
only conjecture that they knew him ; and ask each
Is not this the son ofJoseph ?"-a.t{uestion ver1 '
• Jesus perhaps passed a considerable part of his life amon:-
the contemplative Etsenians or Ther11.peutea, who were a kind ot
Yery enthusiastic Jewish monks, living in the vicinity of Alex-
andria in Egypt, where it appears he 1!rew up his severe ancl
truly monaatK: doctrine. ·See chap. xvii. of thiawort.
Digitized byGpogle
I
71
ritlieulous in the·moutli of per8ooll who most ha•e beea
.
in the constant habit ofseeing Jesus in the narrow.eom•
pass of their town. This does not hinder St. Just;n
A-om telling •s, that be became a carpenter in the work·
•hop of bis pretended father, aDd that be wrought at
lntildings or instrumelits of husbandry.• . But suc;b a
profilssion could not long agree with a mao in whom we
lnd ·an ambitiows and restless mind. -
It will ha better, therefore, here to quit St. Luke1 in
order t. follow St. Matthew, who places the ·Jtap1i:>nt
ofJohn'after the return from Egypt, and makes Jesus
f-orthwith-: eommeaee his mission. It also, to speak
J'I'OperlJ,1at tbit epoch we ought to begin. the life· of
Christ. Yet, to let nothing be lost to the reader of tb•
memoirs, the subject of our literary Ja..
bours, we .thought it our duty not to pass over in si-
lr:ttca the cireumRtanees which bave been noticed, as
these preliminaries are calculated to throw much light
-on the person and actions of Jesus. ·Besides, the in.·
tet>val between the birth and preaching of Christ hat
not been the part of his history least exposed to thct
shafts ofcriticism. St. Matthew, as we have seen, to
• St. Ju1tia Martyr contra Tryphon. The goepel of the in-
fancy inform• 111, that Je1us, when young, amused himself with
forming small birds of clay, which he afterwards animated. and
then they 8ew into the air. The 1ame book says, that he knew
more than his schoolmaster, whom he killed for having struck
llim, because Je,us refused to read the letters of the alphabet.
We lind also, that Jesus assisted Joseph in his labours, and by a
miracle lengthened the pieces of wood, when cut too short or
too narrow. All these extravagancies are not more difficult to
IJelieve than many other wonders related in the acknowledged
gospels. Codex. Apocryph. N. T. lome i. p. lOS,..&c. and·Ul.
•· .24-441,
Digitized byGoogle
&ecoulrt tor his muter'• abaenee during tlM thttty
yeats, makes him go into ErJpt, and rehtrn in an un-
limited time. St. Luke, wllo digested his me..oit"s af..
ter Matthew, perceiving tlaat the abode ia -cast
a su-spicion of magic oo the miracles of Jesus, makes
him remain in Galilee2 going aiHl co•ing eTery year to
Jerusalem; aod fixes laisabodein tlae counu-y, by mak-
ing him appear, at the age of hrelTe, ia the capital, in
the midst of the doctors, nd debatiq ••h.tbena. But
St. Mark a•d St. John, 'Profiting by thecriticism whick
these different arrangement• bad experieaced, make
the Messiah dropfrom tile clouds, aad put him iutaatJ1
to }aboar at the great WGrk oftJut nlvatioo of lila..
kind.
It ia thus that, on combining aod compatloC' tlte se-
veral relatiom, we areenabled to discovu the tnJe ay.a•
tem ofthe Gospels, ia whieh, without adoptiDg u1
alteration-, we will find materialA tor compoainr the
life ofJesus, by Uletel] reducing the marvellou tea ita
proper value.
Digitized byGoogle
73
CHAPTER tV.
BAl''l'lSM OF JESUS · ABODE IN THE DESERT-....
COMMENCEMENT OF HIS PREACHING AND MtaACLES
AT CANA.
FROM the time the Romans subdued Judea; the SU•
perstitious inhabitants ofthat country, impatient to see
' the arrival ofthe Messiah or Deliverer; often pro•
mised to their fu.thers, seemed inclined to quicken the
slowness ofthe Eternal by the ardour of their desires.
This disposition ofmind gave birth to impostures, re·
volts, and disturbances; the authors ofwhith the Ro·
inan power punished in such a manner as to discot1•
rage their adherents, or at least quickly to disperse
them. Down to the era we are about to speak ot;
(which the gospel of 8lt. Luke fixes at the fifteenth
year of the reign of Tiberius), none of those who
bnd attempted to pass for the Messiah had been able
to succeed. To have acted that part well, there was
need of forces more considerable than those which all
Judea could oppose to the conquerors of the world.
Jt was tberefc.ne necessary to have recourse to craft,
and to employ delusions and trick in place of force.
For this purpose, it was of importance to be well ac•
quainted with the disposition ofthe Jewish nationj to
L
Digitized byGoogle
74
affect a great respect for its laws and usages, for which it
entertained the most profound veneration; to profit in·
geniously by the predictions n:ith which tl1ey were im•
hued ; to move the passions, and ·warm the imagina-
tions of that fanatical and credulous people. But all
thi:> beho,·ed to be silently effected; it was necessary
(or him who attempted it to avoid rendering himself
suspected by the Romans; it was to be on l1is
·guard against the priests, doctors, and persons ofedu·
capable of penetrating and thwarting bit
designs. It was therefore essential to commence witb
gaiuing adherents and co-operators, and thereafter a
party among the people, to support him against the
grandees o£ the nation. Policy required to shew him·
self rarely in the capital, to preach in the country, and
render odious to the populace, priests who devoured
the nation, nobles who oppressed it, and rich people
of whom it ought to be naturally jealous. Not to
alarm minds too much, prudence demanded that be
should speak in ambiguous language and parables.
Neither could he dispense with working miracles,
which much more than ell the harangues in the world_
were at all times calculated to seduce ignorant de\'O•
tees, dispo&ed to see the finger ofGod in every act,
the true causes of which they were unable to de·
welope.*
• Miracle,, says Boulanger, appear to have been invented t•
supply the want of good reasons. Truth and evidence have no
need of miracles to ensure their reception. Is it not very al-
tonisbing that God Almighty should Hnd it eatier to derange the
erder of Nature, than to convince mankind of truths the most
evident, and calculated to force their all5eDt? Miracles were io-
troduced to prove things which it is impostible to believe; fol'
there ia no need of miracles whea we talk of reason. Thing•
Digitized byGoogle
!
Such was the conduct of the personage whose 1ilh
we examine. Whether we suppose that he bad been
in Egypt, for the purpose of acquiring the talents ne-
cessary to his Yiews, or that he had 'always resided at
Jesus was not ignorant of the dispositions
of his countrymen. As he knew bow much predic-
tions were indispensably requisite to work upon the
minds ofthe Jews; he made choice of.a prophet and a
forerunner in tlte person of his cousin John
1.'he latter, evidently in concert with Jesus, preached
repentance, baptized on the banks of the Jordan, and .
11nnounced the of a personage greater thaa
himself. He said to those who ·gave ear to him," I
indeed baptize you with unto repeotanee : but
he that cometh after me is mightier than I, the latchet
· ofwhose shoe I am not worth_y to loose i he shall bap-
tize you with the Holy Ghost and with fire."
Jesus accordingly repaired to John on f>urpose to
arrange matters with him, and to receive baptism &om
his hands. According to the report of St. Matthew,
John, at first, made some difficulty, affirming; that so far
from being worthy. to baptize Jesus, it was from him
incredible .are here adduced in' proof of incredible thingt•
.A.Imott all impostors who have fabricated religions, have an·
nounced incredibilities to Tftankind.. They have afterward• fa.
bricated miracles in proof of thote incredibilitiea. " Yon can-
not (they aaid) comprehend what I tell you; but I will clearly
prove that I tell the truth, by doing things that you cannot
comprehend." Truth is simple and evident; the marvellous ia
ever to be suspected. Nature is always true to henelf; she ada
by iovarying laws. To say that God performs miracles, is to
ny that he contradicts himself, and violates !he law11 which he
has prc!ICf'ibed to nature; it is to say, that he reDden useless
human reason, of which he is the author.
o,gitized by Coogle
7'6
that he himself ought to receive baptism. At Ja"'ts
however, he yielded to the orders ofChrist, and admi--
nistered to him the innocent sou
of God could not stand in need.•
Tbere is reason to believe, that in this interview '
the two kinsmen settled their aQd took the
necessary measures for makipg them suct:eed. They
both had ambition, and shared the mission between
:.,-St.John yielded the first character to Jesus,·
whom hejudged better qualified to play it.witb success,
tmd contented himselfwith being his precun;or,
ing in the beatiilg up for followers, and prepar•
jng ways for him-all in consequence Qfa prophe·
c:y ofIRaiah, who had said," Prepareye the way ofthe
Lord, make straight in the desert a highway for our
God"-an o!Jscure and \·ague prediction, in which,
however, Christians believe they see clearly designeq
the Messiah and his holy precursor.
The arrangemeuts being once settled by our two
missionaries, J0hn took care to tell those who to
• St. Matthew, chap. iii. 14. The Jews were in the use of"
baptizing all the proselytes they made. Baptism was, according.
tp them, a regeneration, calculated to the baptized quite a
new mao, io •o far as to bethen eotitled to marry his own mother.•
·But John and Jesus wished to baptize, or regenerate, the Jews
themselves, that regeneration waa u necessary for
them as for the See Bernard in Nouvelles de Ia Ro-
publ. des Lettres, tome. Sl. page
The ceremony of baptism was practised in the mysteries of
Mytbiu, and those initiated were thereby regenerated.
'\J&s also a mediator. Though Christian divines consider bap-
tism neceJ!lllry to salvation, we find Paul would not suffer th,e
C:nriuthi!ln& to be baptized. We also learn
'l'imothy.-ChriBlianil.¥ f• I •.
Digitized byGoogle
l.
77
t.o· hear him, that, to pacify Heaven, it was time to
repent;* that the arrival of the Messiah was not far
ctff; and that he had seep him. The sermons of John
having made coasiderq.ble noise, the priests of Jerusa..
)em, 'igilant as to what might interest religion, and
wishing to be informed of his \·iews, and acquainted
with his person, they dispatched emissaries after him ;
these men put some questions to him, and asked if be
was the Christ, or Elias, or a prophet.+ John an·
swered, that ht> was none ofthese, But when be Watl
asked -by what authority he baptized and preached, be
declared, that he was the forerunner of the Messiah.
This proceeding Qf the priests Qnly tended to give
• The superstitious man, if be be wicked, gives himself up
to crime with remorse; but his religion quickly furnishes him
l'ilh the means of getting rid of it. His life is gllnerally a
long serie1 of error and grief; of sin and expiation. Still ho
frequently commits crimes of greater magnitude in order to ex-
piate the former. Destitute of any permanent ideas of morality,
he accmtoms himself to look on nothing as a crime, but that
"Which the ministers and interpreters of heaven forbid him to
c:ommit. He tbua considers actions of the blackest dye, which
held out to !lim as agreeable to God, as the mean• of effacing
affords nqmerous examples offanatica
"xpiating. by the most atrocious persec!Jtions, their ad11lteries,
infamy, unjust wan, and usurpations ; and, to wash away their
iniquities, bathe themsPives in the blood of those superstition•
lleings, whose infatuation made them martyrs.
t ·u an opinion received by several Jew1, that Eliaw must
c:ome before the Meniah. A great number of Christians be..
Jieve also, in our days, that the coming nf Elia1 ought to pre-
c:ede the advent of Jesus Christ, in order to judge the world.
See the sentiments nf the fathers on the return of Elias. It i1
also the opinion of the Jan,enists at this day, who, like the fi.nt
(:bristiaos, have their heads filled with fanatical and woefDI
9f the ncar end of the world.
Digitized by Coogle
78
weight to John's assertions, and naturally excit-
ed the curiosity of the people assembled to bear him.
The next day they went in a crowd to the plaee where
the preacher baptized, when, profiting skilfully by the
circumstance, and perceiYing Jesus approaching, he
exclaimed," Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh
anray the sin ofthe world. This is he of whom I said,
·after me cometh a man which is preferred before me.''
It is proper to that the author of the gos-
pel ascribed to John, perceiving that it was importnRt
(() remove the suspicion of collusion betweer, Jesue
and his forerunner, makes the Baptist declare twice
that he knew him not, before baptizing him; but that
it had been revealed to him by the Deity, that the per-
eon, on whom be should see the Holy Ghost descend-
ing during his baptism, was the Son of God. From
thence we see that according to this evangelist, John
did ·not know Jesus, who was however his kinsman,
_according to St. Luke.
Joint .was much ellteemed by the people, whom a
kind of ustere and extraordinary life bas always the
power of seducing. · They did not suspect that n mis-
eionary, so detached from the things of this world,
·could ever deceive them. They believed on bis word,
:that the Holy Ghost, under the form ofa dove,* bad
• The Holy Ghost was, to the new manifeatation
of it, a Hdil!J Being, which could appe.ar in one or many distinct
.bodice, at one and the same time. At Pentecost it came like
Me t'1181rillg of a mightJ tflind, and appeared on the head of each
like "fier!J cloven There is not a word of the
Holy Ghost in all the Old Testament. There is mentioa ma.t&
of the Holy Spirit as a nature, or quality; but not of the HoiJ
Ghoat as a bodiiJ
Digitized byGoogle
79
descended on Jesus, and that be was the Christ ot
Messiah promised by the prophets.
On another occasion we will also find John Baptist
atfecting not to know his cousin Jesus Christ: he de..
puted to him l!ome of his disciples to learn wko he was 1
Jesus replied, that they had only to relate to John the
miracles he had operated, and by that sign their mas•
ter would recognise him. We shall have occasion af·
terwards to speak of this embassy.*
Jesus had associated with him a confident, thea
Simon, and afterwards Cephas oa· Peter, who
had been the disciple of John. Scarcely had Simon
taken his arrangements with the Messiah, when he
drew over his brother Andrew to the new sect. These
· t\vo J>t·others were fishermen. We readily presume,
that Christ would not choose his followers among tbe
grandees ofthe country.
The progress of John Baptist, and the attachment
'1>f the people to him, alarmed the priests; they eom-
plained loudly, and John was arrested by order ofthe
tetrarch Herod, who, according to St. Matthew, mode
him be beheaded through complaisance to Herodias
his sister-in•law. Yet we do not find the historians
of this prince reproaching him with the punishment of
tbe forerlfnner. After John's death, his disciples at·
tached themselves to Christ, \vhose coming John had
announced, and who, in his turn, had rendered in be-
.l1alfo( John the most public testimonies in presence·of
the people: for Jesus had openly declared, that John
Was " f,'1'eater than a prophet, and greater than all
angel, nnd that he was not born of woman .who wae
&Teatel' than him." Nevertheless, the Messiah, dread·
• See Chap. XI. of thi• work.
Digitized byGoogle
ittg to be ihvoh·ed in the affair of his forerunner, left
his two disciples at Jerusalem, and withdrew into the
desert, where he staid forty days.; It has been re·
marked, that during the imprisonment ofJohn, Christ
did not think of delivering him; he performed no
miracle in his behalf; after his death, he spoke but
little of him, and forbore pronouncing his eulogy.
He had no more need of him, and perhaps he wished
by this conduct, to give a lesson to those who serve
the views of the ambitious only in a secondary capacity,
and teach them that they ought not to reckon too muclt
on gratitude.
It would ha'Ve been a bad exordium to assign fear
as the moth•e of the Messiah's retreat. The gospel
informs us that he was carried up by tlze.. Spirit, whicl\
transported him to the desert. It was necessary that
Christ should surpass his forerunner. The latter had
led a very austere life, his only nourishment being wild
_honey and locusts; but the gospel affirms, that Jt'sus
eat flothing at allduring his retreat, and that on the last
day, having felt himself ltungry1 angels eame and mi•
nistered to him.
Moreover, to evince the importance of his mission,
the prejudice which it was to occasion to the empire of
the devil, and the infinite advantages which were to
result from it to his followers, Jesus on his return
pretended that Satan had tempted him ; made the
most flattering offers on purpose to engage him to de-
sist from his enterprise; and proffered him the monar•
chy of the universe, if he would renounce his
of redeeming the human race. The refusal he gave
to these proposition!'!, evinced a supernatural desir•
to labour for the sal\'ation of the world. Such as
beard these details must have been filled with aston-
Digitized byGoogle
•
Si
isbment, penetrated with gratitude, and burning with
sreal for the preacher; ofconsequence, the number of
his
St. John the Evangelist, or the person who has writ•
ten under his haine, whose object appears particularly
to have been to establish the divinity ofJesus, bas not
mentioned his carryingaway, abode in the desert, and
temptatiom These transactions must have been rec•
koned by him prejudiCial to the doctrine be wanted to
introduce. St. Matthew, Mark, and St. Luke, relate
the carrying away; and temptations which ensued, in
a different mariner, but calculated to she\v the power
ofSatan over the Messiah. In fact; he transported him,
no doubt in spite of himself, to the pinnacle of'the tern•
pie, and by an astonishing miracle made Jiesus con·
template, from the summit of a mountain, all the king·
doms of the universe; without even excepting those
whose inhabitants were antipodes of Judea. It must
be confessed, that, according to the gospels, the devil
works marvels, which yield in nothing to those of
Christ.
The flight and absence of Jesus made him lose for
some time; his two first disciples Peter and Andrew.
The necessity of providing for their own subsistence,
eonstrained them to resume theirformer trade offishers•
.As their master durst oottben sojourn at jerusalem, he
retired towards the banks ofthe sea of Galilee, where
he recovered them. "Follow me (said he to them);
Leave your nets; of catchers of fish I will make
you fishers of men.* He probably made them under-
• Thie doctrine was zealously acted upon during all the
Kllzareoe era. The Roman Catholics fi•hed, in many parts of
the globe, with the net of sword, fire, and water; .they op· ·
?tl
Digitized byGoogle
8!
stand, that the' reflectioae he had Rlade during his re..
.Ht-emPnt, furnished him \Vith certain means of subsist-
ing- without toil, by the credulity of the vulgar. The
two hrnthers forthwith followed him.
·Whetnt-r .JeMus bad been expelled from Nazareth
by hi11 fellow citiZPns, or whether he had quitted it of
his own accorcl, be departed and fixed his residence for
the time at Capernaum, a 1R&ritime city, situated on
t'he confines uf the tribes of Zabulon and Naphtali.
HiH mother, a widow, or separated from her husband,
followed him: sire could be useful to JeHus, and the
little troop of adherents who Hved with him.
It was at this time, that our hero, seconded by hia
disciples, betook himself to preaching. His sermon,
like that of John, consisted in saying, Repent, for tht;
kingdom of he(J'f)en is at haJld. We ought perhaps at
this period to fix the era of the mission of Christ.
John, we have seen, commenced .preaching in tbe fif.
teenth year of Tiberius; it was in the same year, that
his interview with Jesus took place, when he was bap·
tized by John. It was also towards the end of this year
that John disappeared : after which Jesus was in the
desert, from whence he returned to reside with his mo-
ther in the city of Capernaum. There he sojourned
pressed in all their dominions Cto their everlasting shame}, the
Jews, as well as other persuasions of mankind. Our modern
Nazarenes continue to recognise the doctrine•
•., ttJith goodpro1pecu anti. lwm•nil!l, nnd not without a booefi·
c:ial view towards mankind. They formed thcmeehes iuto a
Fill1.er Snciet!l, in order to supportji.1hers or proselDte1, and te
auist, in some measure, the poor unintelligent fishes
fall in their net. Indeed such a command or doctrine is not
to be found in any part of the Bible, nor in tbe 'falmudical
Treatises of the Hebt'ews.-/'ide " The ConstaJKy of Israel,•
pa'e
Digitized byGoogle
1
a sh.orl time onlr, on aecount of the approach of the
festival ufthe passo\·er, to celebrate which he repaired
to Jerusalem. We may, therefore, fix the commence•
ment of Christ's preaching at the sixteenth year of Ti·
berius. This is the only system the gospel
He celebrated the passover three times betOre hi1
death; and the common opinion is, that his pYeaching
lasted three years, or until the nineteenth year of the
same t>rnperor.
The rumours excited by the baptism and
oi John, and the testimonieshe bore in behalf ofChrist,
having died away on the imprisonment and puaish·
roe&:at of the forerunner, and flight of the Me£1!;ioh, the
latter resumed and thought that, with tbe
assistance of his disciples, he ought to make a new at•
tempt. Too well known or disparaged at Nazaft't)a,
and slighted by his kinsfOlk, whe, oa all oecasions,
seemed to know what to think of him, Jesus qui<ttell
that ungrateful city on purpose to estabHsh himselt; as
we have remarked, at Capernaum;in the sixteenthyear
of Tiberill.i. It was there that he betook t•
preachi11g bis new system to some poor fisbPnnen, ani
other low people. He seen fOund, however, that his
mission was too circumseribed in that place : but to
acquire same eclat, he judged it to perto•m
a miraele, that is to say, in the language of the JPwS,
some trick capable of exciting the wonderment of the
vulgar. An opportunity occurred for this: some mha-
bitants ofCana, a small vitlage of GatHt>e 8upPrior, at
the distance of about league" from Capernaum,
invited Jesus and his mother to a wedding. Tilt> mar•
ried persons were poor, though St. John, who alo••e
relates this story, gives them a steward ; yet he te;ls
u11, that their wine failed .at the moment the gueata
o,gitized by Coogle
84
were half in\oxicated, or gay, and that the pitchert
werefound empty. On this Mary, who knew the power
or the dexterity of her son, to bim c The,y hau
no said she, in an insinuating tone; Je11us an..
swered her very roughly, and in a manner which evi-
dently denoted a man warmed with wine; »oman, rohnt
haDe I to do with thee1 It may however he supposed,
th•t Ch.-ist bad not totally lost the use of his reason,
as be still possessed presence of mind to transmute
water into wine, so that the miraculous wine was even
found better than the natural wine they had at
finat.
r ··- This first miracle ofJesus was perfbrmed in pre•
sence of a great number of witnesses, already half
drunk ; but the text does not inform us, whether they
were equally astonished the day following, when the
fumes of the wine were diasipated. Perhaps, indeed,
this miracle was witneS&ed by the steward alone, with
whom it is not impossible Jesus bad secret intelli.. ,..._
gence. The incredulous, less easily persuaded than the
poor half-intoxicated villagers, do not observe in this
transmutation of water into wine, a motive for being
convinced of the divine power of They re-
mark, that in the operation, be employed water in
order to make his wine; a circumstance which may
give room to suspect, that he made only a composition,
ofwhich like many others, might have the secret.*
• A supernatural nent, in order to be belined, require.
much etronger a fact no way contradictory to pro.
bability. It t!> be,ieve, on the testimony of Philostrates,
that existed, because his existence bas nothing in .
it contrary tq reason l but I will not believe when
he tells me that Appollonius performed miracles. I believe
that Jeeus Christ ; do not bciieve that r9!1C fr9m
Digitized byGoogle
-ThePe was, in fact, no more power necessary to create
a-i1le, and 611 the pitchers without putting water: into
them, than to make an actual transtpufiition of water
into wine. At lellfit, by acting in this manper, he would
have r:emored the suspicion of having made only a
Jnixture,
In whatever manner the miracle may have been per:o
formed, it appears to have made some impression on
th011e who saw it, or who heard jr related. It is
tain Jesus profited by it to -extend his mission even to
the capital of Judea; only giving time for bis miracle
to spread, in order to its effect. In expecta-
tion of this, he withdrew wjth his mother, brothers,
,nd disciples, to Capernattin, :where be remained till
the festival of the passover(the time ofwhich was near)
.
collect at Jerusalem a multitude of people, IM;i.
fore whom he flattered himselfwith bemgable to ope·
pt, 11 nQ.mbero(Jparyels!
Digitized by 00gle
86
CHAPTER V.
HHHUH-
,JOURNEY OF CHRIST TO JERUSALEM-TilE SELLEU
{)RIVEN OUT OF THE TEMPLE-CONJ'ERENCI:
WITH NICODEMUS.
THE noise of the miraele at Cana having reached
lerosalem, by means of those who repaired to that ci-
ty from Galilee, Jesns went there himself, accompa- .
•ied·by some of his disciples; but ofthe number of the
latter we are ignorant. It was, aa has been
tioned, the time of the passover, and consequently, a
moment when almost the whole nation were assembled
in the capital. Such an occasion was doubtless fa-
vourable for working miracles. St. John accordingly
affirms that Jesus performed a great number, without,
however, detailing any of them. Several of the wit..
nesses of Christ's power believed in him, according to
our historian ; but he did not place much confidence
in them. The reason given for this is, "Because he
knew all men, and needed n'ot that any should tes-
tifY of man; for be knew what was in man."*-In
short, he knew every thing, except the means ofgiv...
ing to those who saw ltis miracles the dispositiops ho
desired.
• St. John ii. 24 aod 2S.
Digitized byGoogle
87
But, bow reconcile faith in the wooden t'erformed
by Jesus, in these new converts,' with the bad disposi•
tions they were known to possess l If be knew the
state of mimi of these witnesses of his miracles, wb.r
perform them with certain loss? In tbia tbet'e is a want
ofjust inference in the writer, which must n9t, bow•
ever, be imputed to Jesus. It is perhaps better not to
refer to St. John in this matter, than to believe that
l1is sagacious master would perform miracles without
design, or for the sole pleasure of working them.
In the samejouTney to Jerusalem, Christ performed
an exploit which is as great as a miracle, and evinces a
very powerful arm. According to an ancient usage, mer..
chauts bad establisaed especially duriag
the solemn festivals, under the porticos which envi-
roned the temple. They furnished victims and offer-
ings to the devout, which they were to pa•esent to the
Lord, in order to nccomplish 'the ordinances of the
Jaw; and, for the accommodation of the Jews wbo re·
paired thither from dift'ereot countries, anq for their
own interest, the priests bad permitted the money
changers to611: tlleiroffices in this place. Jesus, wbo
on every occasion shewed himselfbut little favourable
to tbe clergy, was shocked at this usage, which, far from
being criminal, tended to facilitate the accomplishment
of Mosaical law. He made a scourge of ropes,
and, displaying a vigorous arm on those merchants,
drove them into the streets, frightened their cattle, and
overturned the counters, without any, in their aston·
ishment, being able to oppose his entt'rprise. ·Jt may
be conjectured, the people had no reason to be displea-
sed witb the and that they profited by tha
. Rloney and eft'ects which Jesus overturned·in the pa•
roxysm of his zeal. No doubt his disciples did not
•
Digitized byGoogle
•
forget themselves on this occasion; their master could
by this exploit make provision for them, especially if
they had been in the secret, Hnd enable them to defray
all expenses during their residente in the capita).•
Besides, they saw in tbis event the a"Ccomplishment
ofa prophecy of the Psalmist, who foretold, that the
Messiah would be " eaten.. up with the zeal of the
house ofthe Lord"_._a prophecy which was evidently
verified by the uproar which Christ bad qecasioned,
With respeet to the merchants, it would appear they
.had not comprehended the mystic seDSe of this predic·
tion, or at least they did n·ot eJtpect to see it verified
at their own expence.- Jn their first surprise, they did
not oppose the unexpected attacks of a man who must
have appeared to them a maniac ; but,. on recovering
from their astonishment, they complained to the ma-l
gistrates of the loss they bad sustained.. The magis·
trates, afraid; perhaps, of involving their authority,
by punishing a man of whom the people bad becomtf
the aceompliee, or a fanatic whose zeal might be ap··
pro\·ed of by devotees, did not wish to use rigour for
1his time; they contented themselves with
to Jesus,· to kftOw from bimseJf by what authorit.v he
acted-" What sign (said they to Christ) shewest
thou unto us1 seeing that doest these things ?'•
On which Jesus answered them,· " Destroy thill temple;
• St. Augu5tin say•, that, flj right -divine, 11zi thing•· belon§
to thejust:-amaxim founded on a passage in the Psalms, whiCh
stateA, that the just shall eat the fruit of the labour of the un-·
righteous. It is known that the Pope, by a bull given in favour'
of the. of Castile, Arragon, and Portugal, .fixed the line
of wbich was to rule the conquests each had gained-
over the Infidels. After such principlea. is not the whole eartA
to become a prey tu Christian rapacity f
byGoogle
J
•n.lln days I .will raise it up." Bat the Jeft
were not tempted to make trial oftlris;-they took hia
for a fool, au,J tehimed, shtagia« daeir shoulden..
If, however, they had taken Christ at bil word, 'tbeJ
1r0Uld ha\'e experienced!feat elllbane81Deat; for tbe
ppel informs u-, that it wn not of tJae te111ple oi
Jer•salem be spoke, but of his own body. He meant
bis resurrect1oa, says St. Jobll, wbida was tlo happett
three dar- afteto his deatll, The Je1fa bad not •utieieat
discernment to di•iae tltis enipa, and tile discipks
ti.emselyea did aot peneuate its true till a
loag time after) wbeo tiaey pr$tended their master hd
risen from tbe dead. We eanoot '-rbear admiriag
.ProYidence, which, wishing to iutruct, enliptea, and
eoul'ert tile Jewish peopleoy the moutla of Cbri4tt,
ployed only iigures, allepries, and enigmatiad .,....
·bol-, totally hy per&OM the moat inp
·aious and most experienced.•
But tboughJesus had the power of Taisb11
trom the dead, he did oot wish to employ dtkl manel-
Jous power io sniog hila.elf 'Wilen io tlae buck of the
• Religion is by no means formed for even the molt intelli-
gent part of mankind, who, as well as the nniaatructed; are ni-
'terly ineapa'bte of eompt'ebendiftg any of those aerial snbtit-
ties oa wltieh it rats. Wh• ia tlte lllllll tMt uaferetand• the
doctriaes of tile fif GM J of tM lfMII'*riiiUJy
.oal ; Ol' of tlle mymri4• of religioal-NeDe ia4eei will we-
.tend to this. Yd we find tbe.e \beGloiieal tpeculationt, which
no one understands, have frequently distnrbed the repose of
mankind, through the stubborn disposition• 'of those who
·pve them credeuee. Even the womea ha'fe 1Jdieve4 tbern-
.ee!Yet to take a part in ttse quarrels, excitell 1Jy itllo
:eontemplat•rs, wllo are alway• af losa v.tility to IOCid.y than Uo
meanest artizan.
N
Digitized byGoogle
00
Jews, ready to arrest and punish him as.a disturber-or
the public repose.· He thought it more eonvenient
and prudent to decamp, without noise, ana shelter
llimself by natural ways from the pursuit of ihose
whom his expedition might have displeased.
He ·proposed, therefore; to withdraw from Jenusalera
during night, whtm a devout Pharisee, wishing to be
instructed, came to see him. He was called Nico•
. delims, and held the place of senator-a rank wbicll
does riot always exempt from incredulity. u Rabbi-,
(said ·be. to Jesus), we know that thou art a teachet-
seot from God; for no man can do these miracles that
thou doest,exceptGod be with him."
This opportunity was favourable for Jesus to de·
clare himself: by a single word be cai.IId have decide.&
.on his divinity, and acknow.leodged, before tbis senator
so kindly disposed, that he w.as God. Yet he did none
of this; be evaded answering directly, and contented.
'himselfwith saying to Nicodemus, that nobody ean
.abare in the kirigdom of God unless he born agaiD.
'fbe astonished proselyte exclaimed, it was im-
possible for a man already old to be born again, or
e!Jt_
er of new into his mother's womb. On which Jesus
'replied:" I say unto. thee, a man be born ofwa-
.ter apd ofthe spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom
.ofG.od." It .-appeal'ft, that Nicodemus was not better
:satisfied than before; Jesus, therefore, to make himself
·more added, "Knowest thou not, that
'what is born of the flesh is flesh, and which is
.born of spirit is spirit? Marvel that I said
unto thee, ye.must be born again-'J.'he wind bloweth
where it listeth, and thou hearest the sound thereoi;
butcannot tell whence it cometh, and whither it goeth:
so is every one that is born of the spirit:•
Digitized byGoogte
91
··In spite ofthe precision and plainness of these in·
structions (resembling the reasonings of our theolo·
gians), Nicodemus, whose understanding was doubt-
less shut up, did not yet comprehend any part of them·
-"How (asks he) can these things be?" Here Jesus,
pt.tshed to extremity, grew angry. "How (says be to
him), art thou a master of Israel, and knowest not
t.hese things? Verily, verily, I say unto thee, we speak
that we do know, and testify that· we have seen,
and ye receive not ouT witness. If I have told you
earthly things, and ye believe not, how shall ye believe
if I tell you ofhea\'enly things? And no man hath as-
cended up to heaven but he that came down from hea•
\·en, even the son ofman which is in hea\·en."*
We thought it our duty to relate this curious dia·
as a specimen of the logic of Jesus; the more
so as it seems to have served as a model for the fashion·
of· reasoning observed by all the Christian doctors,
who are in the use of explaining obscure things by
things still more obscure and unintelligible. They
terminate aU by referring_ the decision to
their .own testimony; that is, to: the authority ofthe
church; or clergy; entrusted by God himself with regu·
lating what the faithful ought to believe.
The rest of the convel"!'ation of Jesus with Nicode-
mus is equally perspicuous, and in the same tone :
Christ alone speaks, and appears by dint of his reasons
to have silenced the docile senator, who, it seems,
retired fully convinced. Thus it is, that a lively faith
disposes the elect to yield to the lessons, dogmas, and
mysteries ofreligion, even when it ill impos11ible to at•
.• St. Joha iii· l-IS.
Digitized byGoogle
tach any to tlae words they laear proAOOD•
ced.•
• The &rat ol the Cbristian -..irtues, A)S
whidl sones• a foundatioll for .Utile others. It ceosisb iaaa.
i,.,_..r. cMviclia of the renalell doetrinea, and absurd
fables, which the Christian religion commands its disciples to
believe. Hence it appears, that this virtue exacts a total re-
nunciation of reaeon, an impracticable assent to improbable
facts, and a blind submission to the authority of priests, who
are the only guarantees of the truth of the dottriaet IUid
ninc:lu tbat evwy Ckristiaa mull under penalty of
daaaaltoa. Tlaia vtrtue, thoU§& so to aU manki.ad,
is, nenrt.heless, a gift of heaven, aDd the effect of tpecial grace.
It forbids all and enquiry, and it deprius man of the
liberty of exercising hie and reflection. It reduces him'
to the passive acquiescence ofbeast., in matters which he is, at
the ame time, told are of all the most importaat to his
etem.l happiaew. Hence iti1plain. U.t faith ia a virtue iD-.en&...
ei lly mea, wlllo, f.rotn ligbt of reaeoe. deceived
taeir fellow creature., to suhjec:Ulaem to their owA auihority.
ani degraded them, that they might exerciae an empire over .
their mindL faith be a virtue, it is certainly uaefnl only to
the spiritual guides of the Christians; for they alone gather its
fruits. It cannot but be injuriollS to other men, who are
taught by ia to despite tllat reaMD 'WbieJ. cJt.tiar;uisJJes them
from bnt••• and i1 their 011ly faitltfut iD tlrit· wortcl.
Christians, however, repreteal this rea110n 11 penerted, aDd an
unfaithful guide ; by which theJ teem to intimate that it was
not made for reaaopable beings. But may we not ask, how far
this reaunciation of reason ought to be carried ? Do not they
them1clves, in certain eases, have recourse to r'cason ? Do they
Dot appeal to reason, when they to pro-..e the exist-
ence of their God ?
It is an absurdity to say, we believe thal of which we
no conception. Wbat then are themotives o£ the Christian
tertaining such a belief?--His confidence in hisspiritnnl guicfes.
But what is the foundation of this conlitlence ?--Revelation.
On what then is Revelation itself founded ?-On the authority of
1piritual guides. Such is the manner in whic.ll Christians reason.
o,gitized by Coogle
93
There is DO further mention or Nicodemtli-We
know not whetherJ.eresigned his offiee of senator to
enrol himselfamong the disciples of Christ. Perhapa
he was contented with secretly futaisbing succ:oura
to Jesus and his troop, in gratitude for the luminous
iastructions he bad received. There is reason to
lieve, that be knew how to profit by them, for St. John
makea him return on the scene after the death oC
Christ, bringing a hundred pounds weight of aloes and
myrrh, for the ofembalming his body, and in•
terring it, with the assistance ofJoseph of Arimathea.
This would prove, that be had come from his conversa•
tion with Jesus a more able theologist than he hacl
begun it. Jt is to be presumed, that, on this occasion,
Jesus granted bim grace effectual or sufficient, (saving
grace,)• without which it would have been. perfect}J
impossible to comprehend any of his sublime theo-
logy.
It must, however, be owned, that the impossibility of-,
comprehending the doctrineofJerms furnishes to the
• AccordiiJI to theology,men have occaaion for superrutUI'IIl
grate to do good. This doctrine is without doubt very hurt-
ful to 110und morality. Men always waitfor the callfrom a/Jove
to do good,·and Ibose who direct them never employ the call•
from belOfll, that is the natural motives, to excite them to vir-
tue. But the clergy know not to give a true definition of
Tirlue. They say it is aa effect of grace that dispose• men to
ao th;rt which is to the Diviaity. But what is grace1
How does act upon man ? What is it tbat isagreeable to Godi
Wherefore doetb not God give to all men the grace to do tbat
which is agreeable in his eyes? AdhttC allb ,i'llllice est. We are
unceasingly told to do good, becau•e Gotrequire• it; but no one
has ever been able to teach us what that g-
c)()d is whicb is ac-
ceptable to. the Almighty, and by tbe performance of which we
.hall obtain. hit approbation.
o,gitized by Coogle
94
incredulous a plausiltle pretext for denying that it
be divine. 'Tht>J cannot coricei\"e why a God, sent
solely to instruct men, should never distinctly explain
himself. No oracle of Paganism employed terms more
ambiguous, than the divine missionary chosen by Pro-
vidence to enlighten nations. It may therelOre be con·
eluded, that in this God himselfmade it his study to
create obstacles to his and that he laid an un·
avoidable snare not only for the Jt>\Vs, but also tor aU
those who must read the gospel, in"()rder to draw from
thence the knowledge necessary to salvation ; a con·
duet which appears equally unworthy of a good and
just God, endowed with pt·escience aud· wisdom ;* yet
with faith we may at last succeed in reconciling every
thing, and reaclily comprehend why God should speak
JVithout wishing to be understood.+
'
• It was said to a very celebrated philosopher, that God
llad made mao after his own image. " .Man has returned him·
the compliment," replied the sage. Xenophanes observed.
that if the ox or the elephant understoDd sculpture or painting,
they would not fail to represent the Divinity under their own
pe<'.nliar figure. In this they would have as much reason asPo.
lyclelus, or Phidias, who gave him tbe human form. We see,
says Lamotte Le Vayer, that senesfor the found&·
tion &f alll'hristianity•
.. t It is e'Yident, says Mirabl\nd, that an reveldion whiC'b is
not distinct, or which teaches fllysterics, cannot be the work
of a wise and intelligent being. As soon as he speaks, they
ottght to presume. that it is for the purpose of boing
stood by those to whom he inteads to manifest himself. To
•peak so ai not to be understood; only anno-unces folly, or wan.t
of good faith. It is then demonstrable, that every thing which
priesthood have called mystery, are invootioo11 to throw a
thick veil over their ow:n peculiar contradiction•, and tkeir
owo peculiar il:norance of tbe Di "inity. Tiley think to aGh•
Digitized by . 00gle
.
• · As sdon. as Jesus had quitted Nieodeaiua he lel\Jef
rusalem, hisabode iA which had become-very dangeroue,
and betook himself to. wander.iflgthrough the-cauiltty«
J·udea,··where ,he . There is
·110n to- pre84une, ·that the sc&ndal, he had oecasicmed ira
-the- capital, &lultitude were then as-
.sembled, hadtilot faiJec:ho-,tuake bim. know.n to many ;
ile however sut:oee4ecl 'in•gaining partisansin the coon•
try. But bow· did he this period?
St. John- intO,ms ·in. cb4pter third; that he bap'"
tized ; tens us, in chapter foll;rih, that he
did aot baptize, but that hia.-disciples baptized for
him.
One thing is certain, that after this he quitted Judea
on purpose to go into Galilee. It was perhaps to be
still more private, or to prevent the schism, which, ac-
cording to the gospel, was ready to take place
the Jews baptized by John, and those whom Jesus amr
all difficulties, by saying it i• a myrtery. the intere1t of
the clergy dictates that mau should know nothing of that preten-
ded science, of which they have made themselves the deposi-
taries.
Revelation, remarks the same intelligent writer, far from
being a proof of the goodness of God, or of his commiseration
for men, is only .a proof of his malice. Indeed alt revelation
eupposes the Divinity has been of leaving the human .
species, during a considerable period, unacquainted with truths
the most important to their happiness. This revelation, made
to a small number of chosen men,,would moreover suppose a
partiality, and an unjust predilection, but Iitle compatible with
the goodness of the common father of the human race. This
revelation injure• the divine immutability, since, by it, God
would have permited men, at one time, to be ignorant of his
will, and, at another time, that they should be instructed in
it..
/
·• Digitized byGoogle
96
fait cllatiplea 1lad oa tlutir·p...t l.lptieed. Jesue eon•
eeiYed tbat prudence required him to beat a distance,
ill order to leant tbe field more free to a man whom
Jae.knew stilt usetid to his OWD interet&, aad who, as
we have seen, contented himelf with the ee..
cond part ...,der him. It yery aooa..,._..ed that Christ
JD8de a greater number ol pt'Oeel,tes than his
1U1d tbia circUMtance ia the end •ight have ere.ted a
misundentaading between them. JeH8 tltereforedi-
RCted his march toward-Samaria, whither we are to
fOllow him, aad hm thenoe lte again pusra .into Ga-
lilee.
/
Digitized by<!o'ogle
97
CHAPTER VI.
GIDY&MTU&E OF _.JESUS WITH TBB I'EJU.LE U.l'tU.&ITA.N,-
:MIS JGURKBY A.ND HIR.CLES IN THE COUNT&Y
"I OF TQE GERA.SENES,
IT may be observed here once for all, that in t.bia
examination of the history ofJesus, we follow the.most
received arra;ngement of (acts, without mean-
tog -
to guarantee, that they oc.curred precisely in .that
I
.order. Chronological mistakes are not of much impor-
,..tance, when they do not influence the nature ofevents.
, Besides,the evangelists, without fixing any eras, con
•hemselves with saying at that timt, which, at the period
..we live. dilij>enses with our giviqg a very exact chrooo-
1ogy of the following transactions. Precision, indeed.
would require a labour as immense as superfluous, and
_
would only tend to shew that the history ofJesus, dicta;.
ted by the Holy Ghost,is much more incorrect than that
ofcelebrated Pagaos, even of an antiquity more remote.
It would also prove that -the inspired writers of this
portant history contradict themselves every instant, by
making their hero act ,at the same time in different
places, and often remote from each other. On
.other this painful labour would not inform us ·
which of the evangelists we to follow in pre-
ferepce to his bretbreo, $CeiO!) aJl in the eyes of faith
truth Qn tbeii- side. Time and
'()
Digitized byGoogle
change in tbe nature of facts ; and it is from
these facts we must endeavour to form our ideas of the
legislator of the Christians. ,
, Jesus having begin !1itt jaorney in the summer sea•
son, felt himself oppressed with thirst near Sicbar, in
' the country of Samaria ; an tncident which gave riee
' 'to a adventure. tbis city· there was a
well, known by the name o.f the fountain 'or Jacob.
Patrgued '+It& 'iHII Chritt eat down .on .,
brinll orftlfj wen, wtiting ttle retwn of hi• diecipk., .
who gone .to .rtfe etey ifl cjUeft of It
wes about noon, when a female came to draw water
fttJm t8e fotirrtain. Jf!BUs attked her ta dtink out of
't'tllt$ef ee held; b\tt wbe lciol'tr
fkYlb his tlot•t 1\e W'84f a 1f!W1 • • atoU.
*fred at tds u «Jere ·'Wa& no .commerte or
ftiendship between trte htt'A·•m s....
titiil\,s.. fo eustom Of pattilto9ll'ef diflltll.
ftt sectt, they d'ete6ted ettcb (1tber ftitM eordiatlf. ·
The Messiaf.l; whO' wft not delicate • fheo urdinatt
h!fts, undertook tlre con't'ereion of tlte fenulte
fbt sex and prolelsiOo \te- ftttd fo. ff weaktreei
tbfougl\ tbe .
vvhole cnial'We ofhis hiitor;t. "Ifthoa kne.,._
eat," •aid be to her, ." tbe gift otGod, antt wh'o it i\
tLat saith to thee. Give me to dtltlk,. thou 1ronfckt
bave asked of him, ·and be 'Wdlltd' hllte' given·
living water!' . The Samaritan wolll8n, ·who dt4
!lot obse1·ve ,have aoy .vessel in his bah'd, aske\l
from wheoce tie cou!d draw the living water of wMcft
he spoke? 01,\ this the Messiah, assuming a niysteri-
oua tone,• her, '' Whoso driuketb of
• A arid If eiiJelltfalft
- to tb minJstera of • ft)JgtoiM. A: da1ar iltcaJI8ibll ...
sa withwt .,..,., woukl ..,.. - c1iT1De to dae ......
o;g r zed byGoogle
•
i
• I
'l•ll tkint again, bet w\loleever driMttl 'fl··
at l &ball gift him sba1l never tbiret ; it
.tim 8 wetl of water.springing up iflto e-rer-
.e."_:our female .atireftturer, \\'ho a dame
. vH'tt,ae, aeked meofthat marveUoue watet, cat..
to exempt-
bel from eolllin« afterwarda to.-dratt
.sy; Jesus, wtlo, fl'OOI tiM dtsoourte, &ad been able t•
tiiscover·tile profftlioa of tb'it ·wontftn, got
,filii ft'&l'll the bweineh, by tellin« her to «o seek lret
husband aml retutn; reckoniog, on being
..,te to ilte&l awey when •he wu gone. But tt.e latty
i'ekted to -him her lifer somedetai4s
duct'; arid thereby -enabled him t& eeougft
ef it to speak111t1 a conjuror. Acoerdingl.y he her •
that she had had five busbaads; · tbet·she bM none at ·
-that time, aad thet the man witb lived )'Va8
eaty a gaUnt. Immediately, the Samaritan woml\11
toek Jesus fer a· &Grceret' or a prophet; he rlid not
deny it; and as he was not afreid of belag stoned or
punished at ·the lte made b&ld for the' first
time to confese'that 'be was the MeMiab. ·
They were·at drie part ofthefl- :dialogue, when the
,raftty of mea, mt W'OU1d \e less Ulleful to· the I8Cftdotal order,
whose inteJ:eat it 1a that • should·
of that which they believe to be the m.ost impodant t.o
!Jere is withOIUt dp\\bt the of t.he clergy. The p):'iest Qtust
ll IUld incomprehensible Deity, whom he mO.
speak. and act irr an unintelligible manner, reserving to
the right of explaining.to mortals biB ple88ure in .his own man-
Jier ; while the people, who in general :Miil to have their iD!as'-
i.tiona l'&tller .111u 1heir inatmcted, Pe
.,._ tluat is mOlt .con.ceaJed, mOlt my-.
IUlll mqst Hence the tralllition of maJIY
adored the ,uza, to or· inviaible &seDeJ,_.
' ..
.. ..
·Digitized byGoogle
100.
return ofJesul'' disciples put an end to the
The lattf!r, whether they knew the profession of thf
dame, or were more·intolerant than
master, were and surprized at .the tete-a•
tete : yet none of them dared to criticise conduct
ofChrist. On the otner band, the woman see-
ing his retinue, believed in. reality that he was a propbe'
or the Messiah; so leaving her pitcher, she wentnirectly
to Sichar, "Come and see," said qhe to the inhabitants.
"a man who told me all things that ever I did ; is nol
this tbe Christ?"-Tbe astonished inhabitants assem-
bled, went out and met Jesus; and charmed with bear-
ing him preach, witbout. comprehending one word of
bis discourse, they invited him to come and reside with
them. He yielded to their offers for two days only:
the provisions purchased were put up in reserve, and
the troop lived during that time at the cost of these
heretics, delighted no doubt with defraying the ex-
pences of the Saviour and his followers. •
All the marvellous in this adventure turn• on Jesus
having divined that the Samaritan lady had had fiv.
}Jusbands, and lived at that time in -criminal
with a favourite. Yet it is easy to perceive that
.CO!-lld ·Jearn this anecdote, either in his conversation
with the pnfting dame, or by public rumour, or .some
-other very !'imple way.
· But unbelievers find another reason for criticising
·this of St. John: and laying aside the mnrvel-
.lous, they attack the truth of the transaction. All
.tory attests, that in the time of Jesus Christ,
was peopled by colonies of different nations, which the
-Assyrians had transported thither after the destruction
'of the kingdom of Israel. This would seem to
tke ex"'pectation of the Messiah, in which, accordins ¥l
Digitized by Coogle
101
St. John, the Samaritans lived. Pagans and Idolator,a
could not have very distinct notions of an event parti-
cular to Judea. If the Samaritans were the descen-
dants ot' it was not necessary to put into the
mouth of the Samaritan woman these words, •' Ol.lr
fathers worshipped in this mountain, and ye say, Jeru-
.salem is the place where men ought to worship.'' It
was also ab1mrd to make Jesus say, "rye shall no·more
worship the Father, either in this or at Jeru-
salem; ye worship ye kn,ow.not what." First, the'law
of Moses does not forbid the wor!!hipping God iu
·whatever place we may find ourselves. Secondly, the
Jaws or usages of the ,'lews required,. in the time of
Christ, that none should offer sacrifice any where ex-
cept in the temple of the capital : but the places .Qf
·prayer, depended 'on every man's own will and plea-
sure. Thirdly, it is absurd to aver, that tbe descen- ·
dants ofJacob did not know the God whom they ador-
ed to be Jehovah, the God of Moses and the Jews.; .
unless it is pretended, that they did not know wh.om
they worshipped. On this head, indeed, since the
sion of Jesus, Christians bav:e undoubtedly nothing to
reproach them with. Fourthly, The words of Jesus on
.this occasioo seem to insinuate, that he to abo-
)jsh the worship ofthe Father; at least it is certain that
Christians share their homage between hlm and his
Son, which, faith apart, appears to annihilate · the
'dogma of the unity of God,• Moreov'er, Je.sus did
• The dogma of the trinity is evidently borrowed from the
reveries of Plato, or from the al.leg()ries unller which that ro-
mantic philosopher chose to co_,nceal his doctrines. It appeara,
that the Christian religion is indebted to him for the greater
part of its dogmas. Plato admitted three Hyp11tam, or mod•
•
•
o1gitize9 by Coogle
'
•
•
.'
168.
not 'pfiiS rigbtly in eeyinr, that die Father would '
. tte no loager worshipped eifher at .lerusafem. or on the
mountain ; for this Father has not ceased one instaftt
to be worslaipped there for these eighteen centuriee
put, by Jews, by_Chri•tians, and thereafter &y
tnetaat.•
If it.is maintaiaed t.hat the Sao1aritan woman w.. • -
heathen, it is ocn very likely tt.at she would h• ft re-
garded.Jesus 86 lite Meaeiab, wbom she neither knew
of nor expected. Add Also· to .this. that the Samari-
tani believed in Jeaua on the. word of a eour:tezan·;
a credulity of wbich Jews and ChristiaM only coold
be eusceptible. ]e&Qa and his disciples weNfJews, and
tn that character excluded. from Samaria. It knportl
DOt therefore by whom the country wu inhabited.
Two days ba.Ying elepaed, and tbe 8amaritanJ f4
tichar being, ia all appeaNnce, instructed,
Jesus quitted ttleir city. and •ccompanied br bi& die-
. · eiples, took tbe t'Oild of Upper Galilee. In t)is jouP.
., beiDg In the .dirifdtyr tile first eollltltuted dte wp:vme (Jeil ;
81ae the 'IIJIIf'tl, • dirirH faJtilipw:e,
fNrfl tlle fi$; tlr.e third ja tl¥! apj.rit, f)r - ef the world. Tlfe
early tea.chers of the ChJistian religion to have been Plf-
toolcs ; their enthusiasm probably found)n Plato a doctrine ana-
lofrous te th$ir feeUBgll. Had they been grateful, they wouid
we.recorded him as a prophet, or, at leMt, as oite • tae fathers
ll the chu,cll.. milllipn• a di.fuity •
'l'laibet nearly sixnUsr to that of t,he Cluiatians. By-1.he
God is called Korw:io-cik, the only God, aad the
threefold God. They al8o give bhn the titles, om, Ha, H-, m-
illfgbt, power or word, heart, love. 'Phe number three
always revered amoog the ancients; becaUIIe Salom, In die
...... lanpagee, ta IJI¢.e also lrtaltll,
. . .
..
•
•
• Digitized byGoogle
•
101
I
· aey, Cbriat,•.coo&idering the·. bad llispoa'ition df lril
c:oaatrymen; thought proper nouo entert be city of.N..
. zareth, the place of his natiYity. He applied tO hD
ielf the famous proverb; tkat a fn'Opllcl ha no Ao110rw
i• /lis oa;n lt 'watt btberwiee in the rest of tint
pro-.ince:-es eoort aa the kaew of tbe·urinl ·
efJesus, they neglected noflbinioo weloome·bim. St. ·
L11ke a&Bures us that he 'tiU esteemed and bonetmfd
by every body.t There is reason to believe that the.
,ood people had beheld tbe wonders whiclt be bad·
operated in Jerysalem. dtuing the feetival of the .pas..
ov•r+ In gratitade for fa-vourable
and for tbe faith be found aO.GDff tlle Galileans, Christ-
did not coutent bifntelf with iftyructing them- bllt ·
C.oormed his mlsaioot and tfilifiee his lo•e,. by t
crowd of prodigie&. Tbe was doubtlea. '""1
peat. as St. MattheW'· is CGIUtraineci·to say vapelt. ·
tha.t be healed all Gf !fad alii rnaiaoet
ef disease among tae people )§-that·i' was·N&icient
to present ¥> bim sitci:k., wM.t.ver dt"seuee they
might be aftlieted whote nttmber wM
8fea.l in tb&l eGahtry t tod·J*'-
&e88 pOStfellled wilh cilevif, had "-t '•-fir to
reliefs aod their aare wa• eert4in.· ·
This a11fltitutle of nlinldetf itH 110 tbe1.sl)Tl& "'-
aTEIBi epeFated ·by Jeeus, drew_.., kim a cteWcl of .
idiers and vagabonds, as well from Gaiilee a&. ftom ft..
·Deeap&lia, Judea1 llntl t.ite ce•ntry ·
iordan. lt ·wu in this jouraey. he·made lhe acq'liti.
tiee ef "'•famoo&4iaoiples: .tMJ wereobre,_
bert, to•
. G81 eftbe ume $£ Zebdeee, 'Called J.-..
St. Jcdln i9..... .
.t 8&. t.uu iY:tt..,
·"
•
..
, ·
Digitized byGoogle
t ..
..
104
and John. The 'first, though very probably he couhl
not read, afterwards composed work:!, whiclt
are eveu at this day revered by Christians. With re·
•Pect to Jobn, who was a very fine lad, he became the
favourite o( his master, and received from him marl{s of
diatioguisbed tenderness. He became afterwards a
•aublime Platonist, and, through gratitude, deified .
Christ in the gospels and epistles published in his
'
name•
. l'he reputation and reaources of Jesus were so great
in Ga'lilee;that to augment th'e number of his disciples
it was only ueces,ary for him t<> open his mouth and
apeak. ·The two· disciples already mentioned be called
\Vith an intention to keep near his person.
however, to repose bimselfafter-the fatigues of preach-
iJlg and miracles, he resolved to quit the cities, and re-
tire to .the sea coast. He conjectured, that to make
·biroself and not ,waste his it was pru- i
not to suffer himself to be seen either too long or
too near. The people, fGnd of hearing the wonder-
ful sermons of Jesus, followed him. Pressed by the
crowd, he happily perceived two vessels ; throwing
himself into oneof them," precisely that which apper-
tained to Simon Peter, the first of,his disciples, he ba- .
raogued tbe eager'multitude from it." Thus the boat
of a fisherman became a pulpit, from whence tbe Deity
uttered..his oracles.
· ' The Galileans, not rich, and accordingly the
troop of Jesus' adherents augmented. We find his
four first apostles labouring in their trade of fishermen
during the abode of the Messiah in the province. The
day on which be preacl¥ld in the vessel bad not been
fortunate ·and the nigbt·preceding it had not
been mo're :ravourable. Jesus, who knetr mare than
Digitized byGoogle
I
one thought; thatit todotome-
thing for wbd shewe(l so mtJ<rb ;el1-f. Wheq,
tbe.-e£ore, he bad finished his baraugpe, and t)l,e:crQw"-
ha4 be bade Simon a.dnnce into the middle
of the water,.andcaet bis net; tlle e¥cused
self, that he had alreat\f thrown several times
withoo.t insis,ted ;-then SimQn
e,aid, I 'IJJill cq1t it 011 fJQOrr/.: on wbich, by an utp..
.Rilbmg the net broke on ,u side,. Simot;t a.nJI
Andrew beigg unable to drag it O\lt, tbey called the\r
comrades, and drew· f)ut of it efJoug\l to fill tw<»
were WP •ur:Pfi,ed, t\lat ?ew.
wotc {C\1' .. AA4 to q.
PM-t:. him, and proQ:tised
apin .to seeing .that
... J.9o,gu h¥sy w.i.tb
of · · .
fin4.i,IW bj1J111.elf
proper tQ that he
f<lJ'.Il;led J 1DHtacle 4p Capemaurn,
, wbose aqn of to
, .on .JlUrpQee to t.P.Y tbe Qf
.many hoasu:!l. B;e play·
to come to .his house, and cure his \!GO; but ORf
.. wl}o did D$t ckuae tO ,yet
t.oo rid ohhi&
.qcb .- .tD ri$ft himtelf, in case be should.
J"cceep: Go, ,.aid be to the officer, th!J.. ·siJ.
n li:D4tll· ·
w-hi\e approacbjng bia own
•eamed .whici\.perbapll ,
· left w.a11 to cry up ·
aof.l· -the fa.Qlily..
After having traversed the sea coast, made some .
•
._, repaired to u •
•
Digitized byGoogle
,
106
has been related, be :had fixed his residence. The
family ofSimon Peter was established in that city ; and
it was no doubt this reaioo, joined with the bad treat-
ment he bad received from the inhabitants ofNazareth. ·
that Christ to make choice of this abode.
It appears be abhorred in the city "!here he had
been educated; for u aoon as .he attempted to preach
tbe're, the people wanted to throw him headlong. At
Capemaum they listened to and admired him; be ha-
nngued in the synagogUe, explained tbe scripture, and
shewed that be himselfwAs foretold iD it. In the midst
of his sermon one sabbath day, they brought him a
person posseued, who, perhaps in cogcert with him.
began to cry out with all his might; "Let us alone:
what have we to do with thee, thou Jesus of Nazareth?
·art thou come to destroy ua ? I know thee who thou
art, the holy one of God." The people waited in
terror for the issue or this advebture, when Jesus, cer-
tain of his ground, addressed himself not to the man.
·but to the devil poasesaing ·him, " Hold: thy peace,••
.·said he, " and come out of him." Immediately the
malign spirit overturned the_
possessed, threw him into
horrible convulsions, and disappeared without any
person seeing him. ·
Physicians, and especially those acquaintedwith the
eastern countries, do not admit miracles of the nature
of this one. They know that tbe diseases taken for
poutilion1, were owing solely to disorders produced
·in the brain by excessive beat. These maladies were
·frequent in Judea, where superstition and iroorance
impeded the progress.of medicine abd of all useful
knowledge.• Out· of that country we find but..
• . &eiigion, particularl,- the hu always aeclarid
o,gitized by Coogle
lM
feY? persons· ppssessed with devilt. This
strips Jesus of a great number of his miracles; yt;t
even taking away from him the possesuuRs, there atill
remains e.nougb. Most of tbe possessed found among .
us are hypochondriacs, maniacs, hysterical women.
melancholy persons, an.d those todll\mted with the
vapour• or spasms : or they &J'f! impostors, who. to
gain money, interest tbe simple and display the power
of the priests, consent to. the rlevil, on purpose
.. ihat the clergy may"have the glory of expelling bim.
There is scarcely a possession amongst ,us whicb could
resist a flogging.
Miracles are food for the imagination, but tb,e
body requires subatantial aliments; tbe allye.n·
war against science and' aU human knowledge, which have
looked upon as obstacles to s&lvation. Neither reason nor study
are necessary to men who are to submit their. judgments to the
yoke of faith. From the. confession of Cluistians themwves,
the founders of their religion were simple and igr)orant men..
Their disciples must be as little enlightened as they were to .admit
the fables and reveries they have received from .them. lt has
always been remarked, that the most enlightened men Beldom
the best Christians.' Science is apt tO embarrUIJ faith; moreover
it turns the attention from the great work of salvation, which
is repreeented as the only necessary one. If,scieDce be
to political society, ignorance is much more so to religiou and
ita ministers. Those ages of science and industry, were
fhe golden age of the church of Christ. Then were Jdn8'& dutifully
submissive to priests ; then the coffers of held aU the
riches of IOciety. Tlae ministers of a n1m1erous sect have
even kept from the eyfiiJ of their followers, the .sacred pap
which contain the laws of their reJJsiotl. This conduct is UD•
cloobtedly very disereet; for reatli'TI(f the bible is the surest of
all means to prevent its being If, in fact, the maxims
of the, science, were rigorously
tmiversaJlr followed, no political IOciety CO\Ild
Digitized byGoogle
•
•
•
' J
tore wbieb hobeen had led to the houi fJf
dinner. on- leaving tbe Je.m 'ftas Hl•
vited to the houst of Simon Peter, w-here e't'ery thing
appears to have been prepared, for whieh he might
Mve occuion in performing a second miracle. Th'e
mother-in-law of Simon felt sick, at the mo-
ment they had tteed of her ministry in managihg the
kitchen. who p<)Ssf'Ssed the talent of 'fery rea-
dily \:uring klnsfo\k.of llis took bet by
the band; and made Iter rise from her ttre
c'atne out Of i\ to-mpletely cured. coolred the vic•
tuals, arid fourtd herself in a condition ·to tbe
The same day, in tlre llusk of the they
brought all the sick in Capernaum, and ali the
..: according· .\o.. St. .Milhhew, be
CUfed by spme wordn apd, according to St. LUke,
by handtt Ml Mte11t. SeverM deotits, «M
owt t>fl1re tpbS.sed., had 't't> hretra'
·of the and tb-a:t lle
l\'as Christ "the Son ot 'God.' t'his indiscretion much
dispieased Jes'us, who wished; or wish. t()
Luke ·tel.ltJ as; that " Be·tlebulred
drt!m, ami -tRill 'llt>t to _
fJ;Pe'llk>. •M tlley
trt'ew that tie wall -Here 'it is 'f>mper :to
'that according to ibeoTogistil, llie S6ri otGod.
a\'l view oniy hdead -the d¢yil
••trey., ·and oopceal ftom him the &f tbe
redmllptio"n. Vet we ·tme, tmt<iesm wirs 'M\'er t()
d'cceea l'l'l · his.\do 'CU'ftoing e'ltemy.-"-'ln the
\'thble th-e "devil ts tnore .sly anA
than God the and God
at.leaat. 'that be ia
thwarting their designs. and succeeds ·in
Digitized byGoogle
..
,
I
'•
100
GDd tbe Father to tbe bard nece!Jiity of making bit
dear Son die, ·ih order to repa1t tM which Satan
had done to Mankind. Chritltianity is real mani-
cbaeisin,• wlterein every advantage it m the side/of
the bad principle, who, by the great.numberof
rents he continues to aequire, -seems to render nuga..
tory all the J'Urposes of ·the Deny. -
- If tbe devil knew that Jesus wae the Christ. auclt ·
tllUSt·have been tb his retirement
if\to the desert, for he then 'Spoke to bitt\ ma'Styte
ictitn3ted thet lte knew 11im Bot.-Iti1, ho1Vever, super..
tQ enmine at wl\llt time t&oe de'fil aaquired thi•
knowtedge; but it is thartifest that be bad it only by
divine permission. Now God, by granting to tbe devil
tbe knowledge of his Sen, either wished, ·or did Rot
wish, thathe should speak of it.·lfhe Jesus did
wrong in opposing i't, if ·be did not wish it, how wa.
the able to act contrary to will P -
Jesu•
carefully concealed his quality, the knew'tedge where-
of .could alo't'le operate salvation. - But in this C8'se,
• The. doctrine of two ptindples is boiTOwed from Zoroaat.tir,
• the celebrated Iegislator af the Persians, who flourished under
:()arlua Hystaspes. Oromasdes or Oromazqa, the ancient of daye,
and' :Arimanes, the genius ot darlmeis, are the original divintdes
of manicheeism. Oromaze!J 1$· fue name, which- the· Mitgi mul
Chaldeans gave to the Supreme Being, and which, in the·Chaldlie ·
Jaugoage, 1iignifiea burning light. . '1)ey rq>reee&t God·.88• eur-
tounded by fire, anQ. declare that his is like unto .light, and
his soul unto truth. This was the good Ptjnciple, btit there
was another bad prii:tciple which they called Arimanes, or
that ts in Chaldaic, my or CUD'nlng and ·cteceitful; It il
to 'OromaloJes, Who .._ w cLiaboy :it h<Hiiem' at Jut.
TtaJs. 'die Osiris ana Typhon bf the Egyptiallll ; thia the Pandora
.(theG:teelres.this the .ud Satan oftJewa and Ch.ristiaua;
and such are the v. eftbrll or all the lllge8 to aplain the ClliPt
ofgood and evil · · · -
' -
Digitized byGoogle
11().
the devil himself had the greatestinterest to conceal it.
It was therefore contrary \o his own intereat, and the
will of the Almighty. that the devil made known the
quality of Christ. Besides, if Jesus really did not
wish that the devil should discover·him, why delay
imposing silence on him until he bad spoken?
The conduct of the Messiah in these pariiculara has
.made it be believed, that not daring to endanger him-
self by publicly assuming th.e quality of .Christ,for Son
of God, he was not sincerely displea!led with the devils,
who were at his c9mmand, for diYulgiog hiS"aecret,'
and sparing him the trQuble of speakiflg. It was
· moreover eliciting a very important confession out of
the mouth of enem_ies.
Jesus was not ignorant, that to retain his influence
over the minds of men, it was necessary to prevent
satiety. Accordingly, on the day following that on
which 110 many miracles had been wrought in Caper-
uaum, he departed before day-break, and withdrew
' into a desert. All legislators have loved retirement;
it is there they have had divine inspirations, and it is
on emerging from these mysterious asylums, they have
performed calculated to deceive the eyes of
the astonished vulgar. Solitary recollection is besides
at times necessary, in order tO investigate the of
our affai-rs.
·· Meanwbite the disciples of Jesus, notwithstanding
his flight, did not lose sight ef master; they
paired to him at the moment be tho.ught himself alone,
and informed him that they had been every where in
.search of him. In fact. there were still many sick and
possessed persons in the country; yet this contlideration
did not induce Jesus to return ·to Capernaum oat
·which' account many resorted' to him in his retreat.
,
Digitized byGoogle
111
•
'to get rid of them, he again traversed Galilee, where
he conti01;ed to cure the sick, and cast out devils:
tbis is all the gospel mentiona. It appears he tarried
litde' or none at all on his road, and preached as .he
went along; for in a very short time he had advanced
a considerable way on the shore of the sea of Galilee.
As the multitude which followed him atigmented
contihually, by suppliesof idle and curious people that
every village produced, our preacher, finding himselC
pressed down by the crowd, gave orders to his dis-
ciples to convey him to the other side,on the territory
of the Gerasenes.
When he was landed, a doctor of the law repaired
to him, and offered to become his follower: but Jesul
very readily that a doctor could notsuit him ;
be would have cut a bad figure in a company composed
of fishermen and clowns, such as those of the
Messiah bad formed his court. He gave the doctor to
understand, that be would repent of this step : that thit
·kind of life would not agree with him; tlae Son oj'.an.
aid he to the doctor, holluo fiJlaere In lay Ais head.
Christ would not permit his disciples to ramble too
far in the territory of for amongst
them were some of that country. One asked hit
permission to go and perform the last duties to· hit
fatber,-another wanted to go and embrace his family;
but Jesus harshly refused their requests. The one re·
ceived for answer, that be ought to" let the dead bury
their dead." The other, that "whoever having laid
his hand to the plough, ani looks back, is not fit for
the kingdom of heaven." 'J'he think they
perceivein these answers a proof of tbe rough. habit,
.repulsive and of ,Jeaus, who,
pretext of the kingdom of heaven, obliged hie
' -
•
o;gitizedbyGoogle '1
'
I
..
., · liS
to negleet the moat sacred duties of morali.ty. But
Christians, docile t4 ·the lessons ef their divine master,
which they dare not examine, have made perfectioB
consist iB a total of those objects which
aature has rendered deare.t to maa. Christianity seems
iutended only to create discord, detach men from every
thing ori'earth, and break the ties which ought to unite
tbem. There is, according to Christ•a but ont
·1tua.g wedful, namely. to be attachtd him' exclu-
liv.ely : a maxim Yery userut, in meriting heaven, but
calc,ulated to destroy every society ill the·worid.•
After our missionary bad spent some time ia the
ceuntly of tbe Gerueaee, wbre it appears kept
ioc:og, one day towuds the e9enin« he 'p881ed oMC .te
tbe other side on....lab, bning prev.iously
,lb.e .peop&e; who had come that day on purpose to bear
-im; but he did oot preaoll. Jesus, fatigued, feU asleep
eo the pasaage, whil6t a furi••• tempest oMrtook the
thip.. Hifl Mfrighted ·impreue.d w.ith the
• Notwiili..tandina' the eulogies 1a'fiahed' by ChriJtlau
precepts of their cKttne muter, or them are wholly contrary
te equity 8JIIl rlgfft reasoe.' When Jelllllllltfl, " Hake to :YOUI'o
eelres frieDds Ia 'heaven of the mamQIOQ of AIJirisbteoUIIM!M,"
.. a-e DOt pJainlJ mamuu, that ""' may take &om
to fJive to tlle Church.? Di.vines will eay, that _.
tpoke .in parables; theA parables, however, are easily wioldect.
In the Jne&!l while, this precept u'but too well fbllowed. M&1lJ
tJuUtiana cheat and awindle during'ill their liYes, tcr have t1le
p'leasule·ofmakillg 4onationa, at•th4!1r death, to churches, JllOII-.
·at q.., Ueated his ntOther q.
iJJ, when the wae. eeekhag ·bbn with the mClllt parentltl
eplicitude. He !liscq>Jes to Bteal &1l
a herd of nine, &e. D1\llt fie confessed tllat thele things do
.- agree wei whb rod moralltJ. tJiwilliMit!l
. . .
,
•
Digitized byGoogle
. . .
\.
liS-
idea of their master being "
more powerful when awake r
, than when asleep, acquainted him with the dabger.
This conduct drew on them for their want
of faith, while it probabll( time to the tempest to
subside. Tben Jesus, in tlae t_
one of a master, com-
manded the sea to be still, and immediately tbe order ·
was obe!ed. Yet, in spite of tqis p'odigy, tbe faith of
the disciples was still for a long time wavering.. Jesus
on this returned immediately to the country of the Ge-
rasenes, without having either preached or performed
miracles on the other aide. ·
Digitized by G gIe
•
•
•
CHAPTER VII.
.JEIOI fJU&EI TWO PB&IO!fl POISBI!JED WITB DB\IIts-
JII&ACLE 0' TilE IWIJIE-WOJID8RI PZJLFOJUIED
aY CHJlliT TILL THE 'El'fD 01' TJIB FIJLIT
YB4JL 0,1' IUS KlSIIIOlf.
JESUS, landed in the country of the Gera-
.aenes, took a route by which no person bad forsome time
pastted. Two demoniac!!, inhabiting the tombs in the
neighbourhood, rendered this passage danger()us.·
Scarcely had Christ ahewn himself, when these two
madinen ran to meet him. As be was a connoisseur
in matters of possessi()n, he no sooner perceived them
than be began to in order to make the unclean
apirit come out ofthem. Notwithstanding his divine
skill, ht- ac·quitted himselfVery imperfectly on this oc-
casion. It was not with one devil, but with a legion
of devils he had to deal. One of them, laughing at the '
n1istake of the Son of God who asked him hie name...
answered, I am called Legion. On tbis Jesus changed
his batteries, and was proceeding to dislodge them,
when the devils, obstinate in continui ()g in the coun-
try, 6r very little desirous of returning to hell, propo.-
aed a capitulatio.n. One of tire article!! bore, that, ori
leaving the _body of the possessed, tbey should enter
into a herd of swine, which fed hard by on the decli·
-vity of a bill. Jesus rradily agreed, once, to grant
aomething on the prayer of devils, and not use hia
o;gitizedbyGoogle ,
I
I
I
·I
I
'1"15
·a•tliority :rigorG\'Kiy.. Neither nor his disciples, at
--good Jews, ate pork ; . be reckoned.. that
swine p1'0hibited -by -
the law of nugllt well serve
·tor a retreatto devils. · He consented to the treaty; the
·demons came out of tbeir tormer residence to enter
-into. the swine, who,'·f..eting' Satan within them, were
thrown 'mto commotion,·or perhaps were terrifkd in.
"Yery natuial ; ami· having ptecipitated them:-
telves··;nto the sea, were drowned to the number of
about two thousand.
'Ifa legion of devils is ·composed of the same 111.im·
:ber. fts a . Roman Jegion, we must believe, that there
·were six thousand devils. This evidently make three
deviltt for each hog, a5ufficient number to induce them
·tocommit suicide.
,. .Some grave authors assure us, that 1esus never :'
·laugllM, nor even sri1iled :• it is very difficult w
believe, that the Son of God .preserve his ,
-after performingsucha trick. \ But it did not appear hu- ·-
morous to the herdsmen, who tound .this fine miracle
·.·
• 11 M. Fietiry, mthe .u(Jrur.t de.t Chretit'M, p. U.. ·ed. . 1601,
.iWng of Jesus Christ,' employi\ tlfeae' iem"aibble words:-
·"He was W-ry grave. · He was' 'seen w·;weep on two :
INt it is not related that he has nnot t.t. he:
as St. Chrysostom
to God al a Tfley' ·malign8}lt being, $Ild not underiltana-
ing' they require graVity · in ·au 'rho· come 1 ·ser-
Tice. The more gloomy a re1iiion it, the ·tnOre ft plelaes
who love to indulge fear. To succeed, reformers must alwaJII
AlilpJar ao austere exteJtor. Devotee. prefer a. harsh and mo-
rose 19·an ·otle i a preacher who excites· terror•il
.always certain ot suc'cesa. The Janlltlllists are refonners, who
«rive to bring bac-.. :p·istians to their primitiv& gloom, and who
'would succeed in reviving the fi:maticjam de tbt apoltolic
1lle wdrld lt'aiDUt alkr& · : ' :.. · ' :. .
. oigitizedbyG0ogle
'
118
.wo little pleasant, that they -complai.oed of it to their
masters,-and ran to the city, wbere the affair;was DO
sooner known, than fhe proprietors of the swine, far
from being converted, bewailed a prodigy so ruin«;)ue
to them, and maintained that it was a matter of public
u.mcern. The Gerasenes went in a body to oppose tbe
eatry of Jesus into their city, and, from inability to
pnish, besought him to leave their territory aa 800R
u poasible. Such was the ei"evt which the miracle of
the swine produced.
. This memorable traosactioo must be true, for it is
attested by three evangelists, who, however, vary
·aome circumstances. St. Matthew informs1.1s, that tile
possessed were two in number: Mark and Luke main-
tain that there was only one, but so furioll8, according
·to St: Mark, that they could no longer bind him t'Den
eitAfetters. St. , Luke is certain that the devil fre-
quently carried him into the deserts; St. Mark affirma
that he spent days and nights in the tomba. and on the
ueighbouring mountains. '
On this occasion Jesus was also proclaimed Christ by
tbe devil. As he was among his friends, or disciples,
- \ at the tio;1e, be did not..enjoin silence to Satan. Tbe
acknowledgment was useful when given in private,
and could not hurt bim ; but there were occasions on
·which it might do' harm if made in public, wbere our
_
·puissant miracle-worker evinced circumspection, espe-
cially .when he did not perceive himself sufficiently .
·eupported.
Unbelievers pretend to ·disooter important errora,
,and bvident marks offalsehood in the narrative, which
· also appears ridiculous. . 1st, They are surprJ8ed to
lee' devils. who. to Christians, are coo-
to eternal torments in hell leaving ·it OD j)Ur•
Digitized byGoogle
·I
.,
,.
Jl'l
pose to take po88ession ofthe thit earth.
Idly, Tbere· is to be astonished at seeing tile
devil address prayers to tbe .Son of,God. · It is an_
article of faith, ·among Christiana, that to pray, grace
Is requisite; that the damned cannot pray; and mucla
more so,·that this must be denied to the chiefs of
the damned, 3dly, The incredillous are oft'ended at a
miracle by which Jesus benefited two pOe.
sessed with devils, at the expenee Of the proprietors of
....
two thousand swiqe, to wbom this miracle cost at
least four thousand potmds sterling; an action not
qaite agreeable to of equity. 4tbly., We can•
Bot concei'ie how tbeir law inspired with
a horror towards swine, could have herds of animala
which among them were of.D0 use, and which they
Could not even touch without being defiled;. aod, 5thly.
It is.iodecorous to make tbe Son of God into;a·- ·
compromise with devils ; ridiculous to them
enter into and unjust to make them enter into
and destroy other people's property.
Moreover, we a,re. not informed what of
these devils· after being precipitated into the sea.
There is reason to believe, tbat1 in coming out of the
twine they entered into Jews, to procure for our
·Suiour the pleasure of casting them out again; for tbe
curing of people possessed..was of all miracles that in
which he was most expert. · ·
With the posaesaed P4!fSOD cured by
penetreted with.giatitude to bi{,physician• w-ith wboa
he was perhaps he wanted to
follow Cbr., according to St. Mark ; · but it was fore-
aeen that bis teatimony might become suspicious, ithe
put himself in the traio of the Messiah, who therefore-
ebose mbW thu ba 11hould his iuaily; •-4
..
..
.,.Oigitized byGoogle
••
118
announce tbe mercies be bad· received from tbe Lord.
Be was a native of Decapolis, a country, as we have
eeen, VP.ry disposed to credulity. Accordingly,
as soon as the mao bad there recounted his arlven-
ture, every: body was transported with a!\miration.-
We are, however, astonished at the difference of dis-
position between tbete folks, so remarkable for a do-
cile faith, and the Geraeenes:-the inhabitants of De-
·capolis believe all without seeing any thing, whilst the
Gerueoes, eye-witnesses of the are not move4
by it, and uncivilly refnse Jesus admittance into tbeir
city. ·Wf! commonly find in the gospel, that to wit,
ness a miracle is a very strong reason for not believing
it.• . .·. . . .
. The hardnaa of heart and unbeliefof the Gerasenes•
.and particularly the lhey made the Messiah not
to1eoter ft·mong them, obliged him tore-embark witb
lais disciples, aod return to Galilee, where be was very.
kindly received. It.is not, however, ·related wbetbet
• If the Cbriatiaua cite Jeruaalem, azul the testimony of •
Galfiee, to prove the miracles of Christ, I see them attested only
bJ an ignorant populace ; or I demand, how it could be possible
daat an entire people, who had been witnesses to the rnirldes of
Cbrist, sOO.uJd .consent to bjs death, and even earnestly demand
it? Would the people of London or of Paris suffer a man who
had raised the dead, restored the blind to sight, and healed the
lame.and paralytic, to be put to death before · their eyes ? If
,ck Jews demanded the death of Jesll8, aU his miracles are at
«*e annjbilared in die miDd of 8Yflr1 unprejudiced persoo.-
&wlaager. .
Let it not be aaid that the miracles of Christ are as well
eel u 'any fact. in profane liistory, and that to doubt them is •
ridiculous as to doubt the existence of Scipio or of Cesar, whlda
'We believe onir on the report of the histOrians br whom tlMy
• ce llleatiolled. The of a DWJ, .of tbe _
pnual o( as
119
be and performed even the time .
he continuea there is not. accurately kpown.-The
friend• of Jesua, ·and the relations of his disciples and
mother, received, as it appears, from time. to time,. in-
of his wonders, which they took care to cir-
culate : and, on learning that they wanted him, be re-
to Capernaum. Scarcely was his arrival known,
when the people, always fond of sermons and miracles,
resorted to him in crowds. Neither his bouse nor the
apace before the door could contain the multitude:
he requited · the voice of a Stentor to make himself
beard at the extremities of the crowd; but perhaps the
Idlers, content with him without knowing
wby, were but very little troubled about understand-
ing his orations. ·
The pharisees, .to whom Jesus' success began togive
umbrage, resolved to satisfy themselves, if there was any
reality in what was reported of him. To clear up the
matter, some doctors of Galilef>, who. were not of the
:i.umber of our missionary's admirers, repaired to him;.
They 'beard him preach, and came from his sermons
more prepossessed against him ; even his miracles
could not convert them. Yet, according to St. Luke.
the power of the Lord· was displayed in their presence
in the cure of the sick. But, as has been remarked, tbe
annr, or an hero, is not "Improbable ; neither is this a mirarle.
We believe the probable facts. while we reject with contempt
the miracles .recounted by Titus Livius. The most atupid c:re-
Uty is often' joined to the most talent& . Of thia
the Christian religion furnishes innumerable example& In mat-
ters of religion, all testimony is. liable to suspicion. The motlt
ealightened men see but ill when they are intoxicated. with ell-
thusiasm, and dazzled.by the chim&aa of a wild imagiDatioD. .A
miracle is a thing impossible in the order of ·natUre. If·thi.t k
dwJpl bJ God, he it.I)Ot imiDutable.-Nid. '
).,
n1iracles of the Messiah were calCldated to CODiriuee
those only who did not se,e them. Tbua it M., tbatthese
miracles are believed at present by people who would
not credit those perfurmed -in their presence.
F9ur men who carried a paralytic on bis bed, unable ·
to penetrate through the crowd to Jesus,-were advised .
to mount up with the burden to the roof of the bouse,
and making an opening there, to let do\Vtl the sick
man in his bed, and lay bim at the pbyaician's feet.-
The idea appeared ingeuiout and new to the latter ;
accordingly, addressing the sick man, .. My son," said
be," be of good courage, sins are forgiven thee."•
This absolution or remission was, no doubt, pronounced
so as to be heard by the emiseary doeton, wbo were
' .
• It is upon passages in Bible similar to this, that the ca..
tholic clergy have founded the practice of absolution. To main•
tain, says the abject and fanatic ideas, ..nth which tU
l*'iest has ftD.ed hU pupils in their.ciWdhood, he commands t.bent
to eome frequently, and deposit. in his boeom hidden faults;
their mOlt &eCftt actions and' thoughts. ·He obligee them to hu-
miliate ·themselves at his· feet, and render hoinage to hiS power;
he frlghtena the criminals, and afterwards, if' they are judged
worthy, he reconci1es them to God, who, an the command of hil
miaisters, remits their Sins. 'l'he Christian Sects that admit tm.
pruti.ce, boast of it 88 extremely useful in regulatiug the man•
'llers, and restraining the passions of men ; but experience
that the countries in which this usage is most faithfully observed,
ee distinguished rather- for their dissolute lives thari the purity
of their manners. . By such easy they 1ft only emboli·'
in vice.· The Hves of ChrlBtians are circles of
offi!nces aml confeesions. Tile priesthood reap the pfofit of t.bil.
practice, by means of 1ritleh they exercise an ablol11te domlnioa
over the conaciencuof mankirJd. How great be tile .power
of an order of men, wbG poael!B all the secrets of families; who
CD ·kindle at pleasure the destructive flame of t'anaticiam• aJM1
Cll1eO altut tiltgatee·of heaven at wiB! · '
D1g1tlzed by Coogle
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
.I
I
I
•
)21
very oiFended at it. sagaci'ously divinmg
their dispositions, addressed his discourse to them-· .
" Why do you suffer wicked thoughts ·to .enter into ,
your 1\,earts? which is easier to say to this paralytic,
thy sins are forgiven thee ; or to say to him, Arise•
take up thy bed and walk?". This question, boldly
,in the midst of a fanatical people, the
of prejudice, embarrassed the, doctor.s, whd did not
tbiuk proper to answer it. Jesus, profiting by
said to the paralyti-c,; informed of the
part he had to play, .Arile, take up thy bed, and go inta
tl.itae This prodigy impressed their minds witll
terror: it especially made our doctors, the spies, trem-
ble, wh.ile the people exclaimed, .. Never have we seen
\
before, any thing.so wonderful;..
But if the were afraid, they were not.con.
Yeded; and notwithstanding the of paralytic,
•bey bad no .faith .in the graQted by Jesus.
It ·tllay, therefore, be supposed that this miracle was
with which rendered it suspi-
cious ; perhaps ·the gospel itself will enable us to dis-
eQver .
·We shall first observe, that when the same fact is
dHferently related by different historians equal in au-
tbority, we are to doubt it; or, at least, are
tJJtitled .to tbatl it has in the manner
$Upposed. , This principle .of criticism. must apply to
tile narratives of our insph:eJ writers, as well as to
otbers.-Now, St. Matthe.w tells us merely,
th.
at a paralytic .Wll8 presented to Jesus, who cured him,
witltdut relating: tbe wonderful circumstapce of
J'PP.f being perfqrated, and the ornament&
which St. ,and St. Luke have embellished their
narrative. either weare in the'right in auspeD.d·
.K.
Digitized byGoogle
.•
ld
\ ' '
ing oar belief as to this fact, or we nr.lY believe at
that it has not occurre3 in the maoot:r related· by tht
two evangelists.•
"'n the place, and Luke, who say that
the sick inan was elevated on 'his bed to the top of the
bouse in which Christ was, having previously inform·
ed us the crowd 'J8S so gteat that the bearers of the
diseased were unable to force their way through it, sup--
pose, without expressing it in words, another very
· great miracle. This operation presuppost!s, that the
carriers . penetrated through the :crowd. Arrived.
we know not how, at the foot of the they equid'
I)Ot singly, an'd far less loaded with the sick man, clam-
ber up to the roofor'the n·ouse. they made
an opening through the tiles. In that case t.he pe'ople .
must have perceived them; and particularly those in
the inside of the house. During the sileut attention
they no doubt lent to the discourse of Jesus, they most
ofnecessity have heard the noise made by the men in rail·
ing up a lled to the roof, and afterwards. uncovering thir
roof and making a bole in it, through wbicb to. cooveyo
tbe sick man.-Tbis operation became more difficult
stiO, if the roof, instead of being covered with tiles,
was flat.-Now, all the houses ofthe Jews and orien-
were, and still are, covered in dris manner. · A:U
these difficulties furnish sulflcient motives for doubting
this g·rand miracle. It will become more ·probable, if
we suppose that the sick man was already in tbe bouse
with Jesus: that things were preyiously a-rranged, and
that they let down, by a trap-Cloor made-,on a
paralytic most certain of being· cured on command of
the Messiah. This transaetien might flppear marrel·
. • Compar.e aa to this history, St. Matq,.ew iL St.Mark v. .U
St. Luke v. . '
Digitized byGoogle
,..
...
leta to a di$posed to see prodigies eYery
'Wllere, but it made less impressi<>u on the doctors, wbe .
bad come on purpose closeIy to scrutinise.the conduct of
our adventurer. They. conjectured. that it ,was dan:-
!e'rous to cOntradict weak fanatics, .but they .did not.
fol' aU that, credit the miracle they bad witnessed.
Some days Jesus went and preac·bed
along 'the sea coast, and passing near tbe custom-house.
perceived Matthew., one of the officers., who sat tbet'e.
Bie mien pleased the Messiab, on whose io:vitation our
eubaltern financier quitted his post. nnd followed lUnt,
·.after having in the first place given a great entertain·
.ment t() Jesus and bis party. Matthew presented to him
.aa guests, publicans. aod toll-bar officers. his brethren.
.and otl1ers of similar repute; but the Pharisees and
doctors. who watched tbe behavio'!r of
· purposely. to Matthew's house to pe assured of the fact•
.Jesus. occupied no with gratifying his appetite•
.did not at first observe .tbat be was watched. Some
words. however,,spo"'eo rather loudly, attracted hisat-
.tefttioo .; it wu the doctors wbo reproached the disc-.
ples .with drinkiog and eatiRg with person. of doubtful
reputation. " How," probably said tht-y to them,
,., bow dares your master. who constantly preaches lip
. 'ttrtue, sobriety, and repentance, shew himselfpublicly
'in such bad c6mpany? How can he associate with
.knaves. monopolizers, and men whom their extortions
render odious to the nation? Why does he carry io his
train women of ·bad l,ives. such as Susan• and Jane.
• appears, notwitMtanding all his gravity, that the ladiet
,.-exe the foible 'of Jesus : melancholy pel'!IOns are nGt the
lea8t 8U1Cep6ble of this .weakness. He was very ardently loved
l4!ll'1 .Magdalene, . who to have l;leen the model of ·
or debauched females, whole tempera--
byGoogle
. .
who accompany him eootioually ?., Tie dieciplee,-....
!led in this 'manner, kne\Y oot well bow to repl;y: iat
Jesus, without being disconcerted, answered (hem with
a proverb :-" It is not the wbole," said be, " but tbe
sick, who have need ofa physician." After this, be cited
a passage of scripture, which cannot now be found-
., Learn," said he to them, " the trutb of this saying, 1
ltn·e merc!J better than 1aerijice." It the doc-
did not consider them8elves defeated, and JeSUB
'Was 110 transported with passion as to say, that be
·" oame not to call the righteous b_ut sinners to repea-
1ance." In that case, why did be reject the Pha11iaees
ttnd doctors, whom he called fl!'hil-ntd stp'utcAres , Ei·
•her the adversaries of Jesus were righteous, or they
""ere sinners whom he was come to call t.o repentance,
consequently he ought not to have renounced w.a.
· reason Jesus might employ tOipatnate or
Justify his conduct, it ·was Yery soon published abroafl.
·John Baptist's disciples who beard it, and whom per·
·hapsjealousy excited, camein of him, and asked
the reasou·of the difference in the life be and his diaol-
ples led, and that which tbey t.htmwselvea followed. We
1fa&t (said they) continually, whilst you and your follctw-
.<ers make very good cheer. We practise austerities, and
paent usuaDy leads them to sfve t.hem&elvea up to religion, with
.81 much passion after their conversion, 81 they did before t,o the
·world and their lovers. The Albigenses maintained, that Mag-
dalene had a criminal complaisance for the Saviour.-'Yitk l.a
.cbristiade, tome L The Faculty of Theology, at Paril, fP&'IN!I7
decided, i111620, that Mary Magdalene, Mary, the sister of La.
and Mary the courtezan, were orle and the sameladY:•but,
:the Sorbonne has since then its · opfnion, Fd :ipreten&,
. that these are three very -tllitenmt !farys.--8ee llemaM,
..,.ellee de la Itepu'b. des Ltttres, tome tl. p. too. lome '$o
·p. HO. . '
Digitized byGoogle
. '
/
·Jtte in retiremept, wbiltt you run
ftad · the compaoy of persons of evil
&c. · The reproach was but tMt.
himself oft' very well. " The friend, ofthe
·(replied be,) ought neither to fut nor live in sorrqw•.
wh.ilst they have tbe bridegroom with tbem a time wiU
come when tbe bridegroom ·sball be taken a"acy fro.tn
·them; and tbeii.they shall faJt. No man . putteth a
piece of new clottr on ao!Old do mQU
put new wine into old bottlea:---and np person for
new wine whee be.can get old, for he find.f!tbe QW
better." John's disciples had no reply to reason 110
and convincing. appears that Jesl!s,
..exall!ple is fdllowed by our mode!n doctors, easily _gQt
. :OUt of.tbis.!Ufair by tbe .Of an
· w pEtmJ)®s bomb¥t, prQper · sbJit
.-.mouths pf those wbo .ue aot .inolined,to,qiap.ufie
eternafly..about whet they ·do not
This in'cident demon11trates, tl\at ·tl)e Pharisees.and
.doctc;m not the only _per!\ons were
.the "C)I)duct ofJetU4dWd ,tJ\e he ·
-quented; ,a.truthc.-n41r.med bf·.the gospel,.- We IDUit
· that this trait in tbe collduct of Christ plaiolJ
· deeides the cause in favour of the partizans of lax mo-
..Rllity, and furnishes tbem with victorious ar10s again't
the puritans. We m'y also rep:1ark that tqe
.,a'ctiom . expressions ·qf .on tpis
:eulhorise and justify the conduct.a.nd language of:our
·:holy guides, and especially our lord& the bishops, who,
. ••.'St. ,:'MatthM iL St. Ka*,n. St. LuJte .JJ-
..-.....;.re 18112illfld to St. pp
- :tbat:>ike ".apaltJes, :JeJJ'
-..wlcbcla..ad ..... .
Digitized byGoogle
\
·when teproacbed with their ioiquitou$ behaviour,lhut
our mouths by averring that we uugllt to do al I.U
"'· and not f1Jhat they ao ,. .
It cannot be denied, tbat ihediscrepabcy, which ex-
isted between the conduct o(Jesus aud tbe principles
adopted by the Jews, Ol' enn in his own doctrine, re--
quired great miracles to prove hie mjssion. Our mis•
was not ign&rant of prodigies, there-
fore, were commonly the strongest of his
and of a nature well oalculated to gain the vulpr,
woo·.oever pique on reuoning, but are
• In almost all ages complaints have been made of abuaea in
the church, and reformation has been talked o£ Notwithstand..
iug this pretended reform in the heada of the church, it has a]..
· ways been corrupted. 4nricl0118, turbulent, and eeditioul
priests, have made naticms groan under the.weight of their 1lics,
while princes were too weak to bring them to reyon. Thele
.enli!Jhtened men, says who call thelJiflelvea the mmt..
tel'S of the ¥ost High,• frequently preach nothing but hatred,
discord, and fury, in his name. The Divinity, far from bamg
an ·useful inftuenee' over their owu commonly does Do
-more than render ·them more ambitious, more covetoua, more
.bardeaed. more ollatinate. and more proud. In those countriel
where their 'empire is established in the most solid '!Danner, and
where they enjoy impunity, are they then enemies to that Ue-
bauchery, that intempeJ"ance, and those exCjll!sea, ilgainst which
they are collfltantly declaiming ?· On the contrary, do we not Bee
theltl emboldened in crime ; intrepid in iniquity ; giving' Mill
aoope to their irregularities, to their vengeance, to their .hatred.
..and their suspiciOus cruelties ? The priesta are generally the
most crafty of men, and the best of them are truly Wicked.
Of the clergy, it was justly remarked by Boulanger, that while
thOle blood-suckers of society' w&ll.ow in· an alnilicWlce, lhaJne..
- . fW to the states by whom they are tOlerated, the•man
·tbe man of science,·and the brave. wairior, were 'aift'erecl to Ju..
suiah in indisence, and p00rty .mt cia the mere of
I
Digitized byGoogle
,
·, ' '127
ready in every thing to side withthe man who
wonders, and acquires the. secretofgaining their faRcy.
After_
Jesus had silenced John's disciples, tHe chief
of a synagogue ' waited on the Saviour, and besought
him to. come and lay hands on his daughter, twelve
years old, t11Ao wa: dead, according to.St. Matthew,
who was only 'DtMJ aick, according to St. Mark
and St. Luke: a difference which seems to merit
aome att(mtion. JesuscolDplied with the invitation;
and whilst proceeding to the house overheated biol-
self so much, that a virtue went ou·t of him fl..t .to cure
all those who were in its atmosphere. We shall not
·form conjectures on tile nature of this virtue or divine
transpiration; we shall oflly that it was ·ao
potent as suddenly to cure a woman afflicted for
years with an issue of blood ; a malady whicla
probably the spectators bad not better verified· than
its cure. On this occasion Christ perceived that there
had gone out .of him a considerable portion of virtue ;
he, therefore, turned towards the female amicted. wi(h
the pUes, ·whom his disciples had rudely pushed'back;
and seeing her prostrate at his feet, " Daughter,- (said
he tj) her,) be of bejlrt,. thy faith bath made thee
whoie:• Thepoor woman, whom the disciples bad inti-
midated,channed with being relieved from herfright in8Q
ei\IY a manner, cotifessed openly abe was cured.
-When our miracle performer was at the
bouse of Jairus, (such was·the name chief of tb«:
ayaagogue,) they came .and announced to the latter
that his daughter had expired amoment before,_a'Qd
chat the bouse was full minstrels, who were alreeciy
performiag a dirge or -mournful concert, according
. the custom of the country. Jetus, who on the w-y hP
JOt .the fat'bw of ·the girl t9 prattle,'WU DOt disopa-
•
Digitized byGoogle
\
ItS
eei'ted at the news; be began with milking e.ery body
retire, and then having entered aloue, by the virtue of
t'oiDe words raised her from the dead.
In historical. matters we must prefer· two writert
who agree, to athird who contradicts them. No•
Luke and Mark affirm that the damsel was deau; but
here unfortunately it is the bero himself who weakeni
his victory. Ontheir saying to him that abe was dead.
be affirmed th•t· she was only a8Jeej>. There are girls
who nt twelve years of age are actually subject to suclt
twoons. On the other hand, the father of the damsel
llppears to have acquainted the physician with the
CObditioo of his claild; an.d be, more in the secret than
wthers, did not believe the iatelligence of her death.
Sl! entered alone into her chamber, well a88ured of her
HeoYery if ehe was only in a :I"W'oon : if be bad found
Iter dead in reality, there is every reason to believe,
lse would have · returned, and told the father that
be ·bad been called when too ud was ·vexed ·
tit the accident.
Jeiu8, however, did not wiah that this
.WbO'Uid be published ;-he forbade the fat)ler and mq•
:tber of the damsel to tell what had happened. Our
was not solicitous. to .divulge an affair which
'iftight more and more extite the indignation and ful')'
9f the Jews of Jeru18lem, whitbel' he wu soon after ttt
on'JMl'P<JI'e to celebrate 'the passover.-More-
the- account of this miracle seems to evince tblt
1tle'SOt\ of God bad acquired :IIODJe smattering of m&o
'\tttinein Egypt. Itappeara at least tltat be wa.
"in'the·tlflUtllodic dite8Be8 a \tomeu; and no more·wU
OWaoted incluce.the vulgar to regard a man as a .'""
·•rer• of miracles.
·'8aet·1a tbe-tninctilopitratiugwonders,Jeaue clid....
.. o;gitizedbyGoogle
reat aatialied with this According to St. Mat-
thew, who alone relates the tlu·ee facts we are going
-
to mention, two blind men who followed him began
to exclaim, Son of David, ho-ve mff'CtJ on us. Though .
Jesus, in. his quality of God, knew tbe most secret
of men, be chose to be -ci11a 'IJOCI assured ofthe
of the sick people with whom he tran-
sacted. He therefore· 4sked, if they had much faith,
or if they sincerely believed that he was able to do
wbat they requested of him. Our blind
in the affirmative; tbeQ touching their eyes, "Be it
unto you," said be, "according to your faith," and
ia-tantly tbey received ,their sight. ·
We know not how to reconcile such livelyfatth i11 two
blind men,'with tbe untractablenen afterwards display-
ed. Their physician, who might· have good reasons
for ·not being known, most expressly forbade them to
apeak of their c1,1re ; boweyer apread it iqatapt11
through the The sileuce of thoee wbe were
witnesses of tbis great miraele, is not more utonith-
ing than the indiscretion of the blind men who were
the objects of it. • ·
A fact more miracuJous etill .
ii the obduracy of the'
Jewe, who were so stUbborn, that tbe maay wondeil,
perfor.Ded one afteranother, and on the same day, were
not able to convince the doctors. Nevertheless, Je-
sus, far from being.discouraged, determined still fur- . .
tber to exbi.bit a specimen of hia power. A dumb man,
with a devil, WitS presented to Cbrist, wbo
expelled the demon out of him, and the dumb began
t& apeak..At sight of this miracle, the people, at usual,
were in extasy, wbilst"the Pharisees and doctors, who
bad also exorcists among them, saw nothing surprising
io it: they pretended tltat ttleir exorcists performed
I
,
,
oigitized byGoogle
•
130
-their .conjurations ·in ·the name of God, whilst Jesus
made his in the name of the devil. Thus they
Christ or casting out the devil by the devil, which
indeed a contradiction. But this contradiction
did not prove the divinity of Jesus; it proved only
that the.PhRrisees were frequently CJpable of talking
nonsense and contradicting themselvE-s, like all super-
stitiO!JS al}d credulous people. When .tbeologitft.s diJ-
pute, we very soon discover that the wranglers on
both sides alike speak nonsense : and by contradicting-
imt>ugn their own.authority.• · ·
• Dom. La Taste, a celebrated Benedictine of the Momu.t
party, some letters against the pretended miracles of the
Deacon Paris, which he ascribed to the operatiop of the devil.
His zeal was rewarded with a bishoprick ; hii partizans did not
perceive, that the arguments which tbis monk employed in Com•
bating the mira.:les of a Jmlseniet, destro,Yed, by a rebound, the
. miracles of Jesus Christ, which· were :less amply t:baa
thoee of Paris. ..A Swiss and Protestant clergyman has also at-
tacked··the mincles of Pythagoras, Apollonius Thyaneus, ud
the Seraphic .St. Francis, in a manner which equally destroys all
thoae Christians have inserted in the See the .book in-
titled, De miraculis IJOOI PytlwgortB, trihuntur lihelltu, ·
Phileleulhero Helvetio, Duaci, 1784, in Svo. The Wool-
.lf:ori a work under the name -of " DiscOU1'8eS ·on th.e
Miracles of Je8\18 christ,v1l vols. 1769, in which he proves, that
even according .to the fathers of the church, all the miracles .of
Christ are. only allegories. MJ:. Woolston's .discourses were 10
eminent for the lucidtu ordo in argumentation, inrontrova:ti-
ble reasoning, and inflexible justice, that the secu1ar ann wu
employed to crush him: thus, a man;·,of the most blamelels maa..
ners, whaee literary labours in theology divines and bD!hop.
lt.rove mvain to refute, became an illustrious .example of tlle.
persecuting spirit of churchmen, whoee intolerant and sanguia-
ary dispositions, wliile seconded by the temporal. power, {thus
reciprocally aiding each other) no pleu of humanity or lla(:red ·jus-
tice can controuL -
Digitized byGoogle
'
•
• l3l •
CHAPTER YIII.
..
0' DID !uauro ,DIS ABODE AT JERVULEM;
THAT 181 A.T THE. SECOND PASSOVER IN Bli JrllSIIO_Il.
. .
OUR doctor had eloaed the first year :of hia million
, io.a very glorious manner. He repaired to Jerusalem
witfl a view to try hls fortune, gather fruit of bil
or form a party in the capital, which he
hoped to carry, after hav.ing acquired aclberente in fbe '
·country.-Tbere was, indeed, 'every reason to believe,
that the noise of the wonders which be had operated
ye4r preceding, in Q-alilee, would produce a lively
on the populace of Jerusalem, but it produced
consequences very opposite to those which Jesus had
hoped for or foreseen. It might be said that the in-
fernal which he bad to pass into
the swine of the Gerasenes, had fixed their abode in
the heads of the inhabitants of the country. The
gospel shews us in the former only an incredible hard-
ness of heart. In vain Christ wrought before their
eyes a multitude of prodigies, calculated to ·confirm
Ule wonders related to them; in vain he employ
his divinerbetoric to demonstrate, in tbe clearest mao-
&er be was able, the divinity of mission; all bit
etfortt served to redouble the choler of biJ
enemies, and induce them to devise -means to punish a
, man, whom they iri regardiqg as a juggler, a
charlatan, and a dangerous impostor.
Digitized by Coogle
\
•
lt is true, the adversariea of JesWI surprised him
eotnetime• at fault-They him with \'10.
lating .the ordinances of a law venerated by them as
sacrecJ, and from which' be bad· promised never .
to
depart-They regarded these violations as a proof of
heresy, and it did not enter their beads that a God
could raise 'bitnself above ordinary rules, and possess
the right of c:;hangiog every thing. 'They were
-and, therefore, obstinately attached to their divine
and they did not conceive bow a true
meuenger of God could allow hit:ntelf to trample
under foot, what they were accustomed to regar.d aJ
aacred and agreeable to lbe Deity.•
• The Jews, tile most mperatitious nation Oil earth, relyhlg:
the supposed promille of their God, have always expectec1
the coming of a monarch or conqueror, who is to elevate them
from disgTaoe,· and c:rown them with triumph. It was impoelll..
ble for them to see this deliverer in the pel'IOil of Jesus ; who,
instead of being the restorer of the Hebrew nation, was its detoo
troyer, and since whose coming they seem to have lost aU favour
with God. To thoee who assert that this destruction, and the
dispersion of the Jews, is a proof of-the truth of Christian proo.
phecy, it is answered, that it wu M61 to foretel the diJlpersioD
and destruetian of a rest:Jeea, turbulent, and rebeUious people, -
who continually tom and convulsed by inteltine divisiol)& ;
·besides, they 1tad been often conquered and ·dispersed. The
temple destroyed by Titus, 1bad preri0118ly suffered the same fate
1 from liebuchadnezzar, who carried the captive-tribes into Aaf-
and spread them tluwgheut Jtis territories. "11le dispetaloa ·
of tile Jews is more perceptible tJiaa of otller cooqueNII'
!lations, because thOfle natiou have generally, aAer a cer&aia
time, become wil-4 their conquerors; whereaa the
Jews -refuse to intermingle, by domestic with the
nations where·they J'lllide, and have religi0118ly maintained this
distinc:t1oa. It is ctifterent with the Cuebrd or Parsla
and Irulottau, aa well 11 the d1l'ellta
Digitized
i '
I
'
; '
183
.iQ manyobstaclesdid. not discourage Jesus. He .
mined to at'any price; and though without a
miracle be might have foreSeen what would be the issue
of hisenterprise, he wassensible bemustconquerordie;
tltet fort,.ane favours only the brave; and that it was
'necessary to play an illustrious part, o.r tamely consent
to laoguieh in misery, in tbil solitude of sowe obscure
village in Galilee. ·
Qn arriving at Jerusalem, be devoted his first cares
to sick pauper8-the rich bad their own physicians.
At this time there was in the city, and near the sheep
a,fountain, or famous pool, of which,
with the exception of the Goapel, no historian bas ever .
though, from its properties, it well dese"ed
to be transmitted to po•terity. It.was a vast edifice,.'
fOQnd wbich,stretched five magnificent in the
centre of which was a sheet of water, that possessed
admirable propertiet-but these were known only
poor people and mendicants, aod they knew them
doubtleis by a particular revelation. . Under these
galleriea were seen languishing a great ntJmber of
who patiently waited for a miracle. God,
on giving to the water of this pool the faculty of curing
aU diseases, had annexed a condition to it-The first
· wllo could plunge tbereia after an angel had troubled:
it, which happened only at a certain time, could alone
..-bies. 'ae lliebrews remain di&persed, becaule tbeJ ue UD•
intolcant; aad blindly attacl!ed· to their superstition&
Moreover, \he Act& of the Apostlee clearly prove; that the Jews , ,
bepn to be disperSed. even before the time of Jesus. Jews
r.ame from Greece, Persia, Arabia, -&c. to the feast of Pentecost.
Atta li. 8. It was, in fact, only the inhabitants of Judea that were
·dillperaed try the Romans, after the death of omst.-chrillillnily
V..'W, ..•w.
Di.g tized by Google
....
I
, (
184'
obtain the benefit of a cure. The cbief magistrate •ef
Jerusalem, who probably knew nothing of the exist·
· ence ol'tbis marvel, had not established there any re·
gulation of police. The mOflt forward and agile of the
paralytics or sick,· and such as, bad friends always· in
readiness to throw them into the water when it was ·
· troubled, ravished, often very unjustly, the mercy of
bein_g delivered from theilldiseases.
· A paralytic, among others. had.been there for thir·
ty·eight years, without any body having had tbe
rity to lend him a helping hand in descending to the
fountain. · who beheld him lying on his bed;
asked him if wanted to be cured? "Yes," answer-
ed the sick man, " but I have nobody to put me into
tb.e water when it is troubled." signifies no-
' thing, (replied Jesus)-Arise, take up thy bed and
walk." _This wretched man; perhaps, not unlike
many of our beggars, to soften the public, feign
diseases they do riot labour under, and who on thil'l OC•
casion might _be gained over by some to be ac-
cessary to the farce ;-this miserable, we say, did not
leave him to speak twice-on the order of Jesqs be
took up his couch and departed.
Among the Jews, however, did not, asamong
us, promenade o,n festival days. This cure was per·
formed on the Sabbatb. Our paralytic having been
met. by a man ofthe law, the latter reprimanded bim,
for violating ordinances of by carrying
. b'is bed. The transgre,sor had no other excuse to
but that he who had cured him bad" at the same
commanded him to do this. He was then ques-
about the person who had given this order,
but he knew nothing of hiin. Jesus had not said
whe be· was ; and, u if action bad been very
Digitized byGoogle
,
)35
crr,Jinary, the person on whom tbe miracle wu per-
formed had not informed himself of the author of it.-
Here the matter ended,' as. they made no further'en-
. But Jesus having sometime after met the pa-
made himself known to him, -and then the.
ter informed the Jews of the name of his curer. These
Hebrews were so irritated, that from this instant
tliey formed the design of getting Christ put to death,
because, according t9 St. John, Ae had done thtae •.
011 the Saibrrth day.•
,Nevertbeless, it is not probable that this was the
true cause qf the rage of tlfe Jews. -scrupu,•
lous we_suppose_them, it is that their pbJ,.
aicians ao(\ surgeons !lid not think themselves obliged to
refuse medicines to the sick on the Sa·bllath. There ii
reason to believe, that Jesus, not with curing, ·
did moreover order those be cured to violate the .Sab-
aatb by carryin_p their bed, which was a servile work:
or rather these unbelievers regarded the miracles of·
the Saviour as tnere delusions, impostures, tricks of
' .
dexterity, and himself as a cheat, who might excite di•!
turbances.
· Jesus having learned that the Jews ill
· him on account of the transaction of the Sab·
which they him ofviolating, -tltterripted
to justify himself. He made a fine
.to prove that he was the of GoJ, and that· his fa-
.ther authorised him not to observe the Sabbath•. But he
took care to explain.hirnself very 'di&tinetly on thit
filiation; and by his ambiguous language, he
· eternity of his father, butdid 'tiotean hirii God. - Y.tlt
tbe.Jewa divining object, were very much
. . . . ' . .. . ... '
• St..Jolm ,-, 1-1e•
•
Digitized
•
196
ed.at this pretension.• He changed, therefore, bil
batteries, and threw himself on the necessity by which
be acted. "Verily, said be to them, the Son does
nothing of bat wbat be seetb the Father do-.
Tbe Father, who loves him, abewetb him all things
_that be billlSelf doeth, and be will shew him greater
works than these.'' By these expressions Christ
leems to overthrow hie own eternity and infinite
knowledge ; for be announces himself as susceptible
oflearning something, or as the ape ot the DivinitJ.
To impress the minds of these unbelievers, whom
his enigmatical jargon could not convince, be declared,
that .henceforth the Father will no longer intermeddle
in judging men, ·
but had devolved that care on his Son.
however. bad no eftect ; u the Jews expeCted a
· greatjudge, they were not yet staggered. Jeaue, like
our teachers, for want of better
took the resolation to intimidate his audience, koow..
ing well that fear always prevents tbe exercise of rea-
son. He ga•e them, therefore, to understand, that the
end of the world was near, ought to rgake tlaem
treJDble.t
· The testimony of John-Baptist, had, as we have
• St. Jolin v. 17. &c.
t The eecond MDing or Chriat, immediatelJ a,fter the de-
llti'Qetlon of Jerusalem, attended with all the signs and eoiaOOJill..
tanta of the end or the world, is announced both ·in Matthew and
Ill Luke ; and !rom theee, and other parts of the New TeetaJbent,
.It appea!l, the disciples Weft toM, that they were to be present
OD tblt OCC8Iion, either a1ive or ral8ed up from the dead. 'l"JJat,
, wu not to pass away until all these things were ful.,.
6lJed, and,beth llea'fen and earth should sooner fail than thfa
pncliction. Jesus expressly said, on aendbtg ·forth his diaclplel
to pft8Ch the IJOIPe), cc ye aba1l not have gone oyer all the c:itie8
· of Judah, tmtD the Soa of Mm be c:ome." The apoetlee there-o
Digitized byGo?gle
•
seen, facilitated tl}e first successd ,of Jesus; but 01!
tfi'eother th'e dift'ereuce ihey had remarked be-
tween tile conduct of the latter, and that of the fore-
runner, destroyed' the force of this testimony; our ora-
tor rn'etend:ed the'reforo to have no need of it, and
strove even' to weaken it& value: He was a burniug
· and ii .billing liglt.t to theo1 ; you tiPilNng for a sea"..
to rejoice·in.l.ir. liglii: I have a greliterwitnesi thrqt his..
Here he appealed' to llis vV<?rlill, \\rhich he rrui'mtait)ed..
to be infallible prools'ot' his divine miision. He ui'J:..
doobtedly forgo't at tn'is inoment; that he spoke to peo-
ple wh·o regardP.d ltis' marvellous det;ds us Jelusibntt
a'rid impostures\ his works Were precisely the th'ing
w&icb'it was necessary to prove even to the very Jews';
who saw thein perfo'rmed! Yet this of rea-
80oihg sirice with SUCCeSS by'Chns,;
t!an doctors, wlieo doubtsor objections·are advan-: .
· JiSte c!aDed it t.tie ll.t mnu, atul tAi end of iM fl)();/d. The event
JumDg belied the the .succ;essors of the apostles .were
willing to give 111\0ther to the. words of Jesiu;
and, therefore, instead of the destruction of . the world. being
in these predictions, they, by a facility' peculiar 'to the.
when thJ.y involied'in any difficulty, gave
out that Christ· only spoke in reference to a grand
- lit!'· ..las AbOUf f2; etltaMfSh on the. eartli. ..A.ctiordingiy,
If dlfl. apitiiOti we fu'lct Jb the 1lr8t century, and fi!ont
lllltlf wal'tranftbittl!a' t:O Plq»aB, blllhop of Hierapolia, by oral'
ttil!tian'or 1M • ·n was .alsO embraced by JIJI.o
di· lWoaftls, Lactantiul, Theopbi..
Iii' of · V1et.brinw1 and the D1011t illustriaus of
.&1 J , •
me atleteirt fathers; JiU8ht he olft!nid in: excuse for
t'li't!JL PfimhlVeti' alldpting•tbfU rahatical. notion ; but he ought
tMI.fti be tegarited ai'lih pi!i'80b, who, at tbe end of the
cian'fih! tM' dlalelt 10 abiurd'ant't
T
'
Digitized. by Google.
,
188
ced against the mission of Jesus, throw themsel•es im-
mediately on 1tis miraculous works, which were at all ·
times incapable of convincing tbe very persons who
they tell us had beeo witnesses of them.
Among the proofs by Christ to exalt his
mission, he advanced one, the only tendency of which
is todestroy tbe mission of Moses, and make him be re-·
garded as an impostor. He told them, You have ne-ver
heard the voice of my Father; whilst it was on the
voice of this Father, of whom Moses was the interpre-
ter, that all the law of the Jews was founded. How-
' ever, after having thus annihilated the of
-scripture, our orator wished further to prop his mis-
sion on the same scriptures, by which, according to
him, he was announced. " Fear," says he, " the
Father:. I will not be the person who will accuse yo11
before him : it will be Moses, in whom yon trust, be-
cause you believed not in, him : for if you belie•ed
in him, y()u would also believe _
in me.• I am come
in _the name of the Fatber, and you pay no attention
to it: another will come in .his own and you
will believe in him.'' .
The hearers of this ser_mon were not mo•ed by it:
.• Notwithltanding this t$i,mony in fa•our of M0111, what.
oonfidence can be placed in the pntenaions of a man to di'riJie.
iitlpiration, who, after be wrought 110 miracl-,.
/ oould not convert his people from idolatry ; and. who, after ha•-
iRg caused forty-1evea thOUialld luaelitee to perish tlae
eword, had the effrontery to UIUD1e the title of the meekest ptua
.,. earth ? Is it certain that· the boob which are attri}Mlted .'-;
.llf.olee, and report1 so many miraculous circumaw.ce.w, are .I*'"1 .
fectJy authentic and what proof have we of his. million,
die testimony• of a nuo:Wer of
lou• Israelites, who were mdentl1 tke aup.·of .
leplatei:?
,
Digitized byGoogle
•
139
they found it unconnected, contradictory, offensive, and.
blasphemous ; the fear of seeing tha end of the world
arrive, did not them from perceiving' the want
' ofjust inference in the orator, who took away from his
Father, and restored to him the quality of judge of
men, which he had at first appropriated to himself.
Besides, it would appear, the Jews werE" of good cou-
rage as to this end of the world, which events had so
often belied. Their posterity, who beheld the world
subsiating after this, notwithstanding the express pre-
diction of Jesus and . his disciples, have founded their
repugnance for his doctrine, among other things, -on
teis want of accomplishment; and from his sublime
discourse the incredulous conclude, t.hat it is very dif·
ficult for an impostor to speak long without contra-
dicting and detecting himself.
·The inefficacy of this harangue made Jesus per-
ceive, that it was rn vain to prosecute the plan of mira- .
cles, in order to draw over to his party \he Jews ofJeru·
salem. He forebore therefore to perform them, though
the circumstance of the festival of passover would
seem to furnish hini with a very favourable opportunity.
It:wen appears he was completely disgusted with the in-
credulity of these wretches, who showed themselves no
ways disposed to witness the great things, which he
bad exhibited witb success to the inhabitants of Gali-
lee. To see miracles,• there must be a simplicity, ·
more .rare In a capital than in the country; besides, if
.the populace are well disposed even in large cities, the
magistrates and best informed persons commonly op-
poee ·a bulwark against credulity.•
• We have heard of the popul8ce running to the miracles of
H. Paris, and believing them ; . we have even heard peraons of dia-
tJnsui,ehed rank, .8lld women of quality, perauathl of their re-
.'
same our in
he rlespaired of the salvation of
these for the sh<rrt of time he so-
jqurried in city, he kept no wjth the'm;
he loaded abusive but it does
not that plan though
that qiseiplrs Jlave fre.
quently j!ndcayoured to' succeed by means,
and even bv ·coercion.•
. . ., .
a}icy, atteSt openly ; but these nrlfades never able
to conquer the incredulity of the Molinist clergy, of .the govern-
ment, nor the police ; and the latter, as every body knows, SQC>
ceeded in putting an end to the miraCles of Most High. Thill
' the followil)g epigram, po*.Ci the pte of thf
of St. ¥edard at Paris.
De par le roi, a Dieu,
]# faire miracl• en ct lieu.
' ' .
'Pfe command!! .
pw;re on this
God· w114 ; lie no longer performed . fw *1M
but with f!hut doors, in of
.
! It is right remark, says Mirabaud, PI
the Christians, which of giving thlj juatest idea of the
Dlrinity ; ·which exhibits that Divinity on the side of goodnea8
and mercy, when his worshippers are aceused of being tur-
bulent and aa:nguinary ; which prides itaelf on having
W purest of ; pretends to have tlf!-
and for atrtongst those "fbi»
it ;-it is well, I say, to remark; that this religion haf
caused more divisions and disputes-more political aBd civil
wm, ·and more crimes of every specielJ, than all the. Qther
religions in the .world .united. If it is said that the
of learning will prevent this superstition from producing iD
·silch disniar effects : it· is 8nawered, that fanaticism wiD
; - that unlese the caU.e 'be remlwid,
. .... """· ' . l :. -.. ' -· . . . t . ' . ·- '
GJigitized byGoogle
'
l4J
In short, in this journey, Jes1,1s bad no
diseiples did not meetwith good cheer; to sustain life
they were reduced to the necessity of taking a little
corn in the environs of the ci-ty ; and were surprised at
this occupation on the Sabbath Cl;ty.-:-The violation
of the Jaw appeared to the Jews a greater crime tbiJD
theft. In ·vain complaint was made to their master;
from him no satisfaction could be obtained. He beat
off the Pharisees, by compariqg what his disciples bad
done with the conduct of David, who himseif, on
emergency, ate, and also his followe... eat, -
shew-bread, the use whereof the Lord reserved for the
priests alone :• adding, that "the Sabbath was made f()r
man, and not man for the Sabbath;" therefore, he con·
cluded,"that the Son of man is Lord ofthe Sabbath."t.
Critics have in several circumstances of
the life of our man God, that his- humanity w••
' frequently liable to commit mistakes. · For example.
on the occasion we speak of, he gave
of ,Abiathar to the high priest, who •permittea
David to eat the shew bread. The Holy -Ghost
'
. .
tlie etfects will e\-er be the :.me. So long as
be held in consideration, and shaD have power, there will
diapntes, persecutions, inquisitions, lejicide«, disorders, &c.-10
u mankind ahaU be so irrational as to consider re.JiBfon •
a of ille first impPrtance, its miniaterl will have OJU)OI'·
of coni:nmding e'lery thing on earth, ua4of the
of serving the Divinity, that is, of p\'OIIloting their own
'1;'he church has only one way of wiping away the
IIOOU88tion brought against it, of being intolerant and
umely, solemn)y to declare," that it is not &Dowable to pertecDte
C injure any QDe fur W. n But dUa II what tile clertJ
never declare.
• Kin,gs, or 6.
t St. Matt. xii. St. Mark U. St. YL
•
•
142
however informs us, in first boo.k ofKings, that this
high priestwascalledAchimelech.Theerror would be no-
. thing ifan .ordinary man hatl fallen into it, but it becomes
embarrassiug in a man-God, or in God made man,
whom we ought to suppose incapable of blunders.
On the same occasion, Jesus, to justify the conduct
of his disciples, maintained that the priests themselves
violated the Sabbath, by serving God in the on
that day; .and this, ·according to the principles of our
theology, is styled ·visibly confounding seroile works
with spiritual. But this is to have the same idea of a
robbery and of the oblation of a sacrifice; it is to
tax God with being ignorant of what he did,· by or-
daining, at one and the same time, the observance and
the violation of 81 day which he bad consecrated to
Our doctors further justify with saying,
that, as God, he was absolute master of all things;
but in that he ought to have procured better
cheer to his disciples. It would not have cost him
more to have permitted them to encroach on the
table of some rich financie1· of Jerusalem, or even
that of the high priests, who lived at the ·expence of.
God his father, than to permit his disciples to forage
io the fields of the poor inhabitants of the country.
At least it was previously necessary to verify such so.
\'ereiguty over all things in the ey«;!s of the Jews,
who, from not knowing tl}iS important truth, were na-
turally offended at the conduct which the of God
seemed to It is apparently o\1 this princi-.
ple · Cb'ristian doCtors have that nU
things appertain {o the just ; that it is permitted them
to seize .on the property of. infidels aud the unholy;
that the clergy have right to levy- contributions on the
Digitized byGoogle
143
• l '
people : and that the Pope may dispose of crowria at
his pleasure. It is on the same principle actions
are defended, which unbelievers regard as usurpations
and violence, exercised by the Christians on the inha.,
bitants of the new world. Hence we see, that it is of
the utmost importance to Christians not to depart
from the example which Jesus has given them in this
passage of the gospel ; it appears especially to interest
the power of tbe Pope and.the rights of the clergy.
Pretensions, so well founded, did not, however,
atrike the carnal minds of Jews; they persisted in
believing that it was notpermitted to rob, particularly
on the Sabbath ; and not knowing the extent of tbe
rights of Jesus, tbey took him for an impostor, and
his disciples for knaves. . They believed him to be a
dangerous man, who, unde'r pretence of reforming the
Hebrews, sought only to subvert their laws, trampled
on their orrlinancea, and atrove to overturn their reli··
gion. They agreed, therefore, among themselves, tG
collect the proofs they had against him, accuse, and
cause him to be arrested; but our hero, who bad
formation of their deaigna. fru1trated them by laTiPJ
Jeruaalem. ·
Digitized byGoogle
\
CHAPTER IX::
"''w ••wJlta.lcLEs,....;,..ELEcTto'N' o-r THE TWit.1'P:
4 J.oa'it F.s•
.&S·f1100h'1lll Jew& bad bhmeff from the· rna:.:
lieWUfi intention of his enemies, be betook bini'-
sl!lf to the \forlring of miracles; witb a'
freab proo&· o( his· niis!lion to persons of favou'r-
diipositlons inhftbitants <if Jerusaleni.·
mer convinced him, that t'o gahrthe capital,
il· was still· to ti'ugmet\t 1\\'s forces' in' t'he en-·
ahd in the a greiit number of
dberenti',. who miRbt', in• time ana· aid lnm·
in tbe of prieSts:,. and
'mtlgistriitea ;· attd· pat· hirw in• p<>Messt<m of die hOly
dtfy; the of his t!agter
These new prodigies, however, produced no re·
markable 'effect. The Jews, wbo had Jerusa-
lem, during the festival of the passover. on returning
home, tbeir fellow-citizens agaivst our
adventurer. If be found the secret of gaining the admi-
ration of the ·people in the be passed through
on leaving the capital, be had the chagrin to find op-
ponents in the Pharisees and doctors of these places.
The following fact shows to ·what a degree the people
were prepossessed.-Ou a Sabbath day, Jesus entered
into the synagogue of a place, the name of which bas
aot been presened.-He found there, perbepa, by
Digitized byGoogle
' I
•
I
r
chance, a tQD who had#or said a withered
sight of the diseased, who was probably some not.
· ed mendicant and knave, 8Jld the of the phy: '
aician, excited the attention of the 'doctors. Thej
watched Jt>suscJosely-" Let us see, (said they, one tq
a'bother.) if be will dare to heal this man on the
· bath day.'' . But observing that Jesus remained
tive, tlfey questioned bim on the bead of the sabbath,
ofwhich, onso many occasions,be bad appeared to
but little accoqnt. Itwas oneoftbe princiJ>¥
points of bi• reform. He perhaps like
of tJie.utility of abrogating a great number of fe.stiv11la.
I I ' ',,
Be that as it may, the doctors asked btm, f' '
it lawful to heal 90 this .day ?" was
Jy io the habit of one question by
-Logic was not the in whic\1 the Jew-
moat conversant. Jeau• replied ,to " 1.• it ta;r.
ful .to do good on the day, Qr to d.o evilf
-to eave life, or to take away?'' This queatioo,
cording to St. Mar\4_c9nfounded the docton.
fertheless. is reason to believe, u.nJt.P we
pose the Jews to have been a hundred times more
pid than they really were, that this·question was ve11
ill timed. They were prohibited from applying to ser-
. vile occupations only, but mui.t have been
•discharge the most pressing obligations .of moralit;y
even on the sabbath It is to be presumed, tbat.a
· ' midwife, for example, .lent her ministry on that day,
as on every other.. .
• See in chap. XU.. a note taken from the Talmud,
that it "" pennitted to anoint the sick with oil on the Sabbath
«19', llr their '1,'he tlie
.o,IDUch they did not allol.V on
&e satilfr the caoet pressing wants of lite. This perhAnA nve
•7Ti'r.' sY.J8
. .v
byGoogle
'
146
· Jesus continued his questions, and aslted tbem, if
when a sheep fell into a ditch· on the sabbsth day,
they .would not draw it out? From hence, without
-waiting for an an!>wer, he very justly concluded that
it was pt'rniitted to do good on the sabbath. To prove
it, lie said to the sick, whom he bad perhaps suborn·'
ed to play this scene in the synagogue, "Arise, stand-
tip, and stretch forth your 'hand;" and immediately his
hand- became as· the other. But Jesus, remarking
that this prodigy ·operated no change in their minds,
darted a furious look on the assembly, and, boiling·
'With a holy choler, instantly forsook the detestable
place.• .
He acted wisely; for these naughty docto'rs went
immediately; and .took counsel ·with the oftl<!ers of
Herod,'" how they might destroy him." Jesus, who
was informed of eyery thing by his adherents, gained
the sea shore, ·where it was ulways easy for him to
·effect his · His disciples, several of \'Vhom
understood navigation, followed him A
multitude of people, more credulous than the
repaired to him on the noise of his marvels. There
came to him hearers from Galilee, from - Jerusalem,
from Idumea, from the other side Jordan,·and even
from Tyre and Sidon. This multitude furnished him
with a pretext for giving directions to his disciples
·to hold a bark in readiness, tbat he might not be too
much thronged, but in truth to escape, in caseitsbould-
be attemptf'd to pursue him. .
·. . On this shore, favourable to his designs, Jesus per·
f'ormt"d a great number of miracles, and cured an inti•.
ocCJISion to the reproaches with which the Jews loaded Jesos
on that head, ·who b8d refonned this ridiculous custom by hit OW1l
authority. . ·
St. M•tt. :xiL St. Mark Yi. aJU1D.
Digitized byGoogle
147
Qity of people unkoowp ; we mu•t piously belie•e it
on the word ofSt. Matthew and St. Mark.• All these
wonders were performed on the sick, and especia1ly
on the possessed. The latter, ,at whatever distance
they.. perceived the Saviour, "prostrated
before rendered· homage to .his !l"d prO.:.
claimed.him the Christ; whilst he,.always full of mo..
com them with threa.ts not to reveal him;
the whole to accomplish a prophecy,,which of
He shall 1wt di•pute nor cry, tlor mak.e his 'Voice he
in the streets ;t-a prophecy,:which,
qyently contradicted. his continual disputes· with the
_doct!Jrs and Pharisees, and by the uproar he frequently
occasioned in the temple, the &treets of Jerusfllem, .!ln4 ·
the synagogues in the '_· · . '·
Nothing is more than the
the devil, in ackpowledging Jesus, and confessing_his.
divinity, aod the .stubbornness ofthe doctors,' in not re-
cognizing him, in spite of his .cares to make the' one
silent .to convince tae other. It is evident. that
Son of God has come with the sole intent of prevent•
ing the Jews from profiting by his coming. and
· !edging the titles_
of his it may be said that he
.has shewn himself to receive the homage o_f
the devil at least we perceive only Satan and his
ciples proclaiming,aloud the quality of Jest!S. ·,
When Christ had preached much, cured ·much, and
ll)Ucb, he wished· to be alone for some time,
reflect on the situation of his affairs. With a view
toenjoy more liberty, he went up into a mountah},
lfbere Ire spent tbe whole night. The result of hi•
10litary reflectiooe and prayer8.was, that .be iD ·
• St. Matt. xU. St. Hark iii. St. L\lb Yi.
t·leaialu-.
Digitized byGoogle
•
'
r
need ofassiatimts; but that be could no longer, with-
out giving .umbrage fo the government, continue
marching tip and down with a company so numerous
that of the idlers wbreb be dragged after him .biS
suite.
When day appeared, he called his disciples, at least
those among them whom hejudged most worthy ofcon·
fldence, and selected twelve to temain near bis peraon.•
Tlifs is what)St. l;uke says; but St Mark insinuates·
thiit he ch6se his twelve apoatles on purpose to send
them' on a minion. As Jesus himself however ·as-
'8ures us, that1he chose them to be him, and as the
.content with begging ·and making
·for them'&elves and their inaiter, did not per-
.form any mission· duril!g the life 'of Jesus, at least
ofJudea, we will adhere to the first opi.oiorr; .
· The natnes of these aptistles were as .follows;-
'Si'nlon Peter, Andrew, Mttth;w, Sinloil•Zelote!J,
tiames, 'Philip, Thomas, Jtide, John, Bartholomew.._
··another and Judas 'Iscariot the treasuYer.
'Jesus bad 'not money ·to give such of his'disciples a5
oe was about td send on missions: he·told them·no doubt
'to go and push their however, l<><?k care·
'to impart to them his
'taCles,.and give tbenr'feceipts to ·cure;diseirsetr'andeest
.Out devils; in ·short,' be comrntinkatea to ·tbem ·tfre
aitis, ·t?bin'd(a?d. \i'nbi'nd
•iiame of heaven; prerogattves, w'h1cb, tf tbey dtd Mt
the tiiive been' .wottb·'im'inense'
·•ure tq' the\r'IJti-ccettiots. To the ·tatter,'the
.&taft bas'bec6me a 'a·ataft''&f coniWiadd, itiiiki'ng
1i ta power.'fe1t :by. 'mostc !toveteigns·oftbe
..
• St. Luke vi. IS. St. Mark iii.
•
Digitized byGoogle
149
earth. ·.The hag or •allet of the apQStles baa been
treasures, benefices, principalities, and
revenues; permission to beg has become a right to
exact tenths, devour nations, fatten on the snbstanee: ·
of the w-retched, and eJ\ioy, by ai'Cint,rigAt, the privi·
Jep of pillaging society.. and disturbing it \\•ith im·
punity. · ln fine; tbe sut!ceseors of these fint .mie8f011a.
ties gen.t by Cbriet, beCame 1Dendieltlitl wbo ea-
joyea the prerogative ()f knocking down aU ·tlwee ,
who refused to bestow charities on tbem. or to obey
•
their commands. Many people have imagined, that
Jesus never concerned himself about the subsistence of·
the ministera of the church ; but if we examine at-
tentively the gospel, and especially the Acts of the
Apotles, we shall there find the basis of the riches,.
grandeur, and e!en deapotiam of the clergt.• It i•
• The independence of the Christian clergy ia fOunded upon the
princiPlet. of their religion. or this circumstance they have
taken care to profit; and, bnpreaed with this idea, they, after
belug enriched by the generosity of kings, have always proved
to the true sources of their own opu1ence and ppvi-
leges.-WJiat this body had gained through surprise or Impu-
dence, it 'WU found hnpo111'ble to recover froa their
-They llreeaw that future generationt, breaking loose from the
' fettea .of prejudtce, might tear from them the donatiolll they
had pined, by extortions -ef terror, and the evils of Imposture ; -
they therefore perauaded mankind, that th&y held. ftQm God
" what bad been given them by Jheir fellow mortals ; and
by a miracle of credulity they were believed on their word.
the lntereeta of the clergy became eeparated from those of society. ·
Ken devoted to God, and chOtleD to be hil miniaters, were DO
laop' confounded with the profaae laws, and civil tribunals re-
aounced aU power over them. They could bejudged onlJ by mem-
ben ·or their own body. Hence the greatest were often
·eOIIUllittea by them with bnpuiq.; and periOJll, at tile dis.
\
r.. . -
gitized by Goo e
-.
]50
never but to benefit .themselves and their confident&,
that impostors devise reforms, or institute sects. .. .
poul of GOd alone, were •creel and inviolable. Though they con•
trlbuted nothing to public charges, or at least no more than they
PJeued, their possessions were defended and enlarged by fanatie
IOVereigns, who hoped thereby to conciliate the favour of beaftn.
Jn met, th011e reverend wolves in shepherds' clothing, under pretetlaf
.C feeding with inat.ruction, devoote(l· with avarice; secure U.
&heirdisplse, on the blood qf their 1locb, and
-.pected,-chniticnity UnHiktl.
' . .·
:i ' ·
" ,. '
·'·. ··'
' ' I •o ;. :-',: ...
r •
: . t
. f· i.•,' ,,
•. ' ' !
.(·; , ' ..
,
I
. ,
CHAPTER X.
I.IUtMO!f ON TBB MOUNT-SUtnU.RY OF 'IRE JIORALJ'l'Y OP
JESUS-OBSERVATIONS ON Tll.A.T MORALITY.
THE dread of being arrested having constrained Je-
ws to abandon thtl cities, where he had too many ene-
inies;lhe country became his ordinary residence: fhe
people, affected by his lessomt, or at least some qaJe
and female devotees wh.om h_
e had converted, furnish-
ed to the divine· man and his-·follo"'O'tl,
to wander about incessantly, bury themselies
in. mounta,ns· and deaerts; and .steep: in the open &ir,
·our apostles became frequently discontented with ueir
' lot; _·ancl this kind of life,' compared with that w1ich
had it, must have. appeared to. them terj
.distressing, and often create murmurs. In spited the
.mu-ltitude of spiritual which they could not
faU to receive in the society .of the Messiah, thesecar-
nal .men t>Xpected something more substantial or de-
voting themselves to his service. ' They were drubt-
prot{tised importl,lnt· posts, riches, and in
. lbe kingdom he ·was about to establish. Jesus or:this
frequently experienced almost as much-:Jiffi-
. culty in' retaining them, as in convincing the rtbelliout
Jews by his miracles and fine arguments. · The :nea-
sore of their appetite, and well being, was at this time
tbe.oilly rule ohbeir faith. To prevent th,eir ruurmuri,
a:nd familiarize them witb a frugal life, ·which
Digitized byGoogle
•
' lpt.
' '-
lionary saw be_ would be obliged perhaps for a long ··
time to come to make them lead, be pronounced an ora-
tion on true happiness : it is the one known by the
.
natJe of the Sermon OP the Mount, _.d.related by St.
Matthew, .chap. v.
According to our orator, trtJe happiness conailrts
in lfltltrty that is, in ignorance, and contempt
of aproud knowledg!, which bids us exercise our rea-
. eon, and. strips·man of that blind submission, which is
necessary to induce him to snbmit lo a guide. On
tliie occasion, Jesus preached·to his apoatles and the
auraouoding a pious docility which i.mpli.
citiV credits every thing without ;• and
• Men, lll)'l Boulanger, blindly follow on, in t8 p:aths wbida
thel- fathers trod ; they belieu, becaule, in infancy they were
told they · must believe-they hope, because their progenitors
; ad they tremble, because .they trembled. In youth
the llrdour ot our puaiens, . and the continual ebriety of our
..... prevent ll8 thinkfng aeriouely of a /religion too austere
y to.please. If, by chance, a man eumines it,
he it with partiality, or without peraeYer&nce; he is often
• with a sin«<e glancle of the eye, on contemplating aR·
obj . '80 revolting. In riPer age, new pl8liona and ean8,
ideat of ambition, lft&tnell, .power, the ot richet, and
the of buainea, absorb the whole of
or ._ve him but few mements to thlnk of religion, which he
nevet has the leisure to scrutinize. In old age,, the facultieS are
habits become incorporated with the machhae, tM
'lll!lltMJ are debilitated tiy time and infirmity, and we are 110
Jongt- able to penetrate back to the' source Or ·our opinionJ ;
beakts, the fear of death then renders .an evmination, over
terror commonly preeidell, very liable to SUBpicion. cml
autlMrity also flies to the support of the prejudices of man-
.kind1 compels them to ignorance, by forbidding 'enquiry ; 811fl
·holdlitself in condnual readincea to punish al who atteJnpt to UJl• .·
·deceive them.
..
Digitized byGoogle
158
shewed them, that the kingdom of heaven would be
the reward of this happy disposition. Such is the
sense \Vhich the.church bas always gb•en to the words
ofJesus, Blwed are tlu poor in 8piril, for their3 i3 the
kingdom ofheaven.
Among the apostles, there were some whose passion•
ate dispositions might have been prejudicial to the pro-
gress of the _
sect; it may in general be presumed that
rough men devoid of education, have repulsive man.
ners. Jesus demonstrated to them the necessity of
meekness, civility, and patience, in order to gain pro-
selytes, and attain his ends; he recommended to them
moderation and toleration, as the £ertain means of in-
•inuating themselves into the minds of men, and thriv·
ing in the world, and as the surest way of making
conquests. This is the true sense of these words,
Happy art tlu they shall inherit the earth.
Wishing afterwards to ·inspire them with courage,
and console them for their miserable situation, he gue
them to understand, that to live in tears is felicity, and
an infallible method of expiating iniquity. He pro-
mised them that their vexations should not endure for
ever; that tt>ars should be dried up; that their
misery should terminate, and that their hunger should
be appeased. These consolations and promises were
indisptmsably necessary; to fortify the apostles against
every accident which, in the course oftheir enterprises,
might befal them, in the retinue of a chief destitute
, of riches and power, and incapable of procuring to
himself or others the comforts of existence.
Jesus, ·with a view, no doubt, of sweetening the
Jot of his apostles, recommended compassion to the
listening multitude, of which he, as well as his party,
stood io the greatest need. lt is indeed readily
X
o,gitized byGoogle
perceived, that the Messiah felt the most impe-
. rioua necessity to preach up charity to his _
for he lived only on alma, and ltis success depended
obviously on the gent¥osity of the public, and the
benefactions of the good .souls who hearkened to hia
lessons. ·
Tbe preacher recommended peace and concord,
"' '
positions indispensably necessary to a new born, weak,
aud persecuted sect; but this necessity ceased·to ope-
rate, when this sect had attained strength enough t.o
dictate the law. . •
1 He afterwards fortified his disciples against the per-
secutions which they were to he address.
ed himself to their self-love, spurring them on by mo-
tives of Ye are (says be) the salt of the eartb,
tbe light of the world.'' He gave them to understand
that they were the •c sucoessora of the prophets," men.
' 80 .much reapected by the Jews ; and to share in wnoae·
glory, they ought to expect the·same crosses whicb
illustrious heretofore experienced•
In fine, be called on them to regard it as a felicity,
and n10st worthy of heavenly rewards, to be hated,
persecuted, contemned, traduced, and to be
of every thing that is commonly regarded as constitut..
ing the well-being and happineSs of man.
After having thus fortified , his disciples against the
which would attend their mission, be ad-
.dressed himselfmore particularly to the He
sented to them a new morality, which, 80 far from being
repugnant to that of the Jews, could easily be
reconciled with it., Things were not as yet sufficient-
ly matured for abrogating entirely the la"' of
too great chances alarm mankind. , A mi88ionary, still
must at fint confine himselfto reforming abuses.
,
)55
without seeking to probe to the bottom.-Jesua, there·
fore. wisely contented himself -with shewing, that
the law was faulty in some places, and that he pro·
posed to perfeet it. Such is the language which all re•
formers employ. "• . _
Jesus accordingly expressly declared to the people,
that he was not come to destroy, but to fulfil the law:
and he also affirmed that, in heaven, ranks would be
fixed according to the · rigorous observance of all itt
articles. He insinuated, however, to his that
neither they, nor their doctors, understood any of that
taw which, they believed, they faithfully practised. He
undertook therefore to explain it ; and 1\s all reformers
pretend to puritanical austerity, and ·to a supernatu·
ral and more than human ,perfection, he went beyond
tt!e law. · Ttie following is the substance of his mar-
vellous mstructions :-
" You have (said he) heard that it was said by
them of old time, Thou shalt mu'kilt; and ·whosoever
·shall kifl shall be punished with death ; hut I S!lY uf\to
you, tj1at it is necessary to extend' this prQbibition and
punishment even to wrath) seeing it is wrath which
pushes one on to flUt his fellow-creature to death.-
.You would punislia.tultery-f only when it iscommitted;
bat I tell you, that., in tlris article, desire alone renders
one as culpable as fact. You perhaps answer,
that man is not the master of his passions and desires,
ancl that he can hardly resist them ; I agree with you
on this; you have not any power, even on the hairs of
1 your head... The pe1iances, sacrifices, and expiations,
which your priests on you, are not capable or
• It appears that JeiWI knew not enough of theology to .....
eoJaclle free wiD with divine decrees. 'this bas not '6een lllnoe
too well ·supplied by teaching the odious dosmu of prec1eatiDa-
o;gitizedbyGoogle
156
procuring the remission of your sins ; behold, then, the
only means of preventing them, or making reparation
for tli8m. Has your eye, or any other ofyour members,
solicited you to commit iniquity? Cut off that member,
or p_ull out that eye, and throw it from you: for it is
more that one of your members should
perish, than the whole body be thrown into hell fire.
If Moses, inspired by the Divinity, had known this bell
or place destined for your S!lffering eternal punishment,
he would not have failed to menace you with it ;. but
\te was absolutely ignorant of the important dt>gma of
another life: he has therefore spoken only of the pre-
&ent, to which he has limited your misfortunes, or
your felicity. it not been for this, he would not
have neglected to acquaint you with a fact so well cal-
culated to inspire you with fear, and render life insup-
tion and effectual C8lliag, which make God the most faaadoa1
and cruel of tyran'ts, by supposing that he punishes to all eter-
tiity 'tliose to whotn he refuses the means or the will of saving
themst4ves.
'JJhe doctrine of predestination was also a tenet of the Jew.
In the writings of M08e8 a God is who, in his decNes
is partially fond 'of a cho11e11 people, and unjust to all otlle&
The theology and history of the Greeks represent men' as pu-
nished for, crimes foretold by oracles. Of this Ores-
tes, <Edipul, Ajax, &c. · are examples. Mankind have alwa,_
God as the mest unjUst of beings. According to
80Jlie secta, God bestows his grace whom he pleasel, withoat
·any regard to merit. This is much more conformable to the '
' ChriStian, Pagan, and Jewish fatalism, than the doctrine of
other sects, who say that God grants his grace to all who ask ancl
deserve it. It is certain, that Christians in general are true fataliitl.
The.J attempt to evade this accusation, by aaying, that the clelligna
of God are mysteries.. 'If so, why do they consta&lly dispute .about
.what it is-impossible tor them to understand?
. .
157
portablE'.• You use too freely the pernaiesion'of di-
vorce ; the least disgust makes you repudiate your
I
• We are quite surprised at finding that Mosel and the. anciellt
Hebrew writers have no where made mention of the dOgma of
a tUarre Ilte, which now-a-days fonns ooe of the mOlt important
articles of the Christian refiBion. Solomon of the death
of men by comparing it with Of hiUtee. See EccluiMI.
Some of the prophets, it is true, have spoken of a place caiJed
Cheol, which has been translated Hell (Enfer); yet it is evident
that this word implies merely sepulchre or tomb. They have
in like translated the Hebrew word Topheth into Hell; • ·
but on examining the tenn closely, we find 'that it designates a
place of punishment near .krusalem, where titalefactors were p1to
nished, and their carcaaes burned. It wu only after the BabJ-
lonish captivity,· that the·Jews knew the dogma of another life, and
the resurrection, which they learned of the Persian disciples of Zo-·
roaster. In the time of Jesus, that dogma was nbt even generally
received. The Phariaees admitted it, and the Sadducees reject.d
it. See a work under the tide L'Brafer Detruit (Hell DlnrotytJtl)
in 12mo. London, 1769.
Mahomet perceived, as we11 as Christian divines, the
alty of frightening ·mankind in order to govern them. " Th011e
(say the Alcoran) who do not beHeve, shall be clothed in a gar•
tneftt of fire ; boiling water be poured on their heads ; their
diDa aDd their entrai1s shall be smitten with rods of iron. When-
ever they abaJl atrive to escape from hell, and avoid its tormmt.s,
they shall be again thrust into it, and the devils ahall say unto them,
ttUte the pain of burni111f·" .A.lcoran, c. 8. ·
OR the other hand, the Christian represents his God as pouring
eut 'UJlbounded vengeance to all eternity. ·His fanaticism feiecls 1
tt.elf with 'the 1dea of a laeU, wlaere- God, transfonned into a fer.-
cioua eucutioner, aa unjuat u implacable, ahall bathe himleiC
ia the tears of his Wretched creatures, and perpetuate e:dat-
4BI.C8 to render ·thenl miserable. There, cloathed with
.JII'fell88, he 8all meek at die toi'IDIIIltB of .sillnere,1Uld lilam '\vith
to·thego8RI with whicll tlu!y·eha.U. make the bratea IIIMifa
.C Wr prilone IIIIIOUJld: not .dJe.IIUUilJelt .jw)pe af. IOIDe .U..t
·tllrlbiatioa.C......... ..... .....
.ginary relief !
•
Digitized byGoogle
..
•
158·
•
wives; but I tell you, .that you ought to repudiate
them only, when you have surprized them in adultery.
It is too cruel to one for this fault; we ought to
have respect for the weakness of the ae.x."
Jesus, whose birth, as we bave seen,. was very equi-
vocal, bad particular reasons for wishing that adultery·
should be treated witb more indulgence. Independently
ofMary his mother, from whom Joseph was very pro-
separated, our preacher bad in his train dames,
wbose'conduct has been every thing but
able, anterior to their convel'llion.• Beaioes, tbe in:. ·
dulgence which he..
preached, must have gained him tbe
hearts of all the ladies in his auditory;
The ·Messiah continued nearly in these terms:-
"God bas proq1ised you of old t1mes blessings, pros-
perity, and glory ; but he has changed ·his intention,
and revoked these pro'mises ; as you were almpst
always, and still are, the most unhappy, the most
· and most despised people on earth, you ought
to suspect, that these pompous promisee were·mere
allegories. You ought, therefore, to have an
mortifying morality, conformable to your genius, yOUf
situation, And your misery. If it does not procure you
welfare in this world, you ought. to hope tbat it will
render you more happy in the next. The humiliations
you ought to make, are the means of attaining ·
one day that glory, which hitherto neither·you ROi'
your .fathers have ever been able to acquire. When
therefore a person shall give you a blow on one cheek,
· • Beeldee, Mary who was a noted courtesan,.Je•ue
Jwl In Ids suite Joanna, wife of Chuza, Herod'a steward, who, ee-
•-eording to the tradition, robbed aild i'ol'IIOOk her huabai
to follow the MC!IIiah, aud allilt him witb· her··jnoperty.-st. Luke
.m. •.
•
.. Digitized by·Google '
• 159
offer instantly the other. Do not go to law-lawyers
will ruin you ; and besides, the poor are always in the
wr.ong w}!en opposed to the rich. Give to whoever
aaks of you, and refuse you possess : it ia bf
relying on the punctual practice of this important pre-
cept, that I send my disciples into tbe world without
·money or provisions."
" I do not give you any description of pa'radise
-it is sufficient for -you to know in gross, that you
will be perfectly happy there. But to get there, it
la necessary to be more than men-it is necessary
to love your enemies:• ·render good for evil : preserve
• uo remembrance of the cruellest outrages; hless the
· ·hand that strikes you; a'nd not speak one •
for one only will suffice· to precipitate you into bell.
Have a ple,!tsant aapect when you fast; but especially
• To loPe our enenuea Is imJ10891"ble. A . man may a.Ntai1a
hat doing em to the person by whom be is injured ; but me
ia an aifectioo which can ooly be excited in O!_U' hearts by •
objeot which we· suppose friendly towards us. Politic nati0111,
who ha-re enacted just and wile Jaws, have always forbidden ia-
clividuals to 'l'eVellge or do justice to themaelves. A 11e11timellt
of gvneroaity, of greatness of soul, or heroism, lD8J.induce maa-
kbld to do (JOOd to thoae from whom they IIUft'er injariea. BJ
· lllCh meaus they exalt theDIIJelvea above their enemi.ea, and mq
eYen change the of their hearts. · Thus, without haY•
iDg recourse to a supematqral morality, w,feel that it is our in-
terest to stitle the desire of reyenge in our hearts. Chri.stiaDa may
therefore cease to boast the fQrgiveneas of injuries, as a ,preeept
that could be givm only by their God, or which provea the divine
9fi8in of their mOJ;&lity. PythafJoraa, long before the time of Chrilt.
tlid, « .men reyeoge themaelves on their enemies only by .,.
'bouring to convert them frieiK1a ;" and Socrates taiJiht, that
"it was aot ]awful for • man who ba4 reclived an ilQwy, tore-
Ttllp it t.y doinJ another iDJUl'J·".
Digitized by Coogle
160
live without foreaight.-Amass lint you ek·
cite the wrath of my Fatber. Think not of to-tnor-
row-Jive at random, tbe birds that never thi1tk ef
sowing, gathering, or accumulating provisions. De-
tach yourselves from all things here below-seek the
kingdom of God. which I and my will eell you
for your charities. This conduct cannot fail to plunge
you into misery; but then you shaU beg io your turn.
God will provide for your wants-ask, and it shall be
given you. Do not the beggars find, .to our
divine precepts, wherewith to live at the ex:pence of
tbe simpletons who lallour ?• My disciples and I, are
we not an example, evinCing, that even without toil,
one may draw himself out of scrapes, and never perish
by hunger? If manner of living appears not to
agree with my language, I warn you that you must not
judge my person, nor condemn yourmastersarid doctors.
Do not intermeddle witb state affairs; that care is re-
.eJVed for me.aud those io wbqruI TbeQltlter
il auperior k> the disciple-it is tc> me ia Y"
eupt to tistett. If y&a eallme your master, it is 11e.
• 8ee wkt il eata ta a note m ellap. iii. wll.ete the Naerenes
1ft mefttle&ei. · 'fte wtaoJe Chrilltian cloctriBe Is &rourabJe to
. . , end clmle& Our prelat:es td&rm, tbat the
Jll8lleft1' ef the ellurel is tilepm &1110,., 6f 1Mpow, toAo - ,.,...
&rt . tf Jesus Christ. As t» are WRI811y tAe
depaeitoriel llftd 6tribut0l'll eC alme, thet take great cae to
preacl't ·up clwity ; oonsequeut}y, iR Yf!r1 lleorout eGtlftt.ries, dle
llattJeeUe latty mab donadollt to Dl6ftb, and Jesaeles to hOI!pi-
tala, 'llfhfctl -aeem eetablilh.t enly to lie safnM t. the adminJe.
tramrs, but Vf!f"! Jlttle te the IDihtunate. · BesMee, di.eee etta-.
tllsbments _
ldleDess; a good goYe!11Dlent cannot mah
10 many poor; It wiD ptmiah mendicants by prot'ealoa, and force
tflem to weit, when able, to proYide for the wants ot dl.oae who are
rea1IJ incapable.
Digitized byGoogle
I
161
ceuary to do what I desire you. The practice
of my morality is difficult, and even impossible, tO
many persons; but the broad and easy way conducts
to perdition; and to enter into heaven, it is necessary
to be as perfect as my heavenly Father. I must warn
you against my enemies, or those wao shall preach to
you a doctrine contrary to mine. Treat them as
; they are false propbeu-shew them no ia.
dulgerice: for it is not to them that you ought to be
humane, tolerant, and pacific."
In the course of his discourse, Jesus ta11ght them a
abort form of prayer, known to by the name
.of the Lord'• prayer.• Though the Son of God may have
.abewn himself on·this occaaion the declared enemy of
long prayers, theChr_
istian church is full of pious slug..
gardi, who, in spite of his decision, believe they can-
not perform any thing more agreeable to God, than
spending their whole time in mumbljng prayers in a
very low \ODe, or singing themjn a very high one, and
frequently in a language they do not understand. lt
appears, that in this, as in many other things, the
church has rectified the ideas of its diwne foun<!er.
St. Matthew informs U!l, that the discourse, of wbich
we have given tbe substance, transported the people
with admiration at thei doctrine of Jesus, .for he in·
Jtructed them as one having .authority;and not as the
scribes.-The latter, perhaps, spoke in a more simple
. fashion, and consequently less admired by the·vqlger,
• M. Baanage informs us, that the Jews have a prayer ca11td
l',adish, in which they say to God-" 0 God, exalted and hallow•
ed be thy name.-May thy kingdom come," &c. This prqer
I · is the abort ancient one preserved by the Jews. Hence we see
.that Jeeua wa9 but a plagiary, and not the author of the
· pnyer•...,..JJasnage Hilt. des Juifil, tome 6. p. 31t.
y
Digitized byGoogle
I
. ..
16i-
wbose wonder is excited in proportion to their iuabiti·
&y to c9mprebend, or prpctice, the precepts .given
them. Thus the sermon of Jesus not, at that time,.
any contradictors. It has, however; since then flll'.;.
oished aruple scope for dispute to our cR:mists ·and
theologians; they have subtilly distinguished between
things which were merely of coumel, and those of pre-
eept, which ought rigorously to be obsened. · It was
in fact soon telt, t.bat the sublime morality of--the Son
of God did not suit mankind, and its literal observance
became necessarily destructive to ·society.-lt ·was,
therefore, requisite to abate it, and recur to that niar-
nllous distinction, in order to shelter the honour of
tbe divine legislator, and reconcile his fanatical morali-
ty with the wants ofthe human race.
Moreover, this discourse presents difficulties, which
will always appear very embarrassing to persons accus-
tomed to reflect on what they read. They find, that
it is ritliculous and false to say, a Jaw is accomplished,
it is proposed aAd permitted to violate it, and add
or retrencb the most essential points. Since the
time of Jesus, why bas that law been completely abro-
gated by St. Paul and his adherents, who, as we have
eepn, seceded from the Christian paFtizaos of
ism? Why do Christians entertain· at present ·so
mucb . horror at that same Judaism, except indeed
.wpen the privileges .and pretensions of the clergy are
.in which our Christian priests are
very judaical; and which they have prudently borrowed
from Leviticus; all to supply the neglect ofChrist, who
,.in his go,spel was not· sufficiently attentive either to
. their ,temporal'intcrests, divine rigllts, or sacred hierar-
chy?.By what l.aw dc;>th.e (if Christians) in
Portugal aud Spain burn those who are .. or con·
.... Digitized byGo'ogle
I
I
/
163
"Yicted of having obse"ed the usages of a·law, which
. Je&U11 has declared, that he did not wish to but
to fu!fil 'I By what law have Christian doctors dispen•
sed with circumcision, and permit themselves to eat ..
pork, bacon, pudding, bare, &c.? Why has Sunday, or
the day of the sun among Pagans, been substituted for
Sabbath or Saturday?
· 2dly; It is beld unjust to punish in the same _
manner
a .mnn in a passion and a murderer. One lnay tie· in a
passion and restrain himself, or afterwards repal\-1 tbe
injury done; but he cannot restore life to man; whom
·he has d-eprived of ·it. . ' · . • . •
· 3dly, The restriction of divorce to the single case of
. 'adultery is a law ve;ry hard, and very prejudicial to the
happiness of married presons. This precept cornpefs a
mari to·live with a woman, who in pther reqpects''niay
·be ocliou.s to' him.' Besides, it is generally very diffit:u!t
to convic(a 'fem'ale ofadultery; she u.sually uses precau-
tion to avoid convictiorJ on account of hP.r debauch-
.eries. Is It not 'Very grievous, and even dangerous, to
live with a person who occasions continual suspicions?
4thly, It is absurd to make a trime of desire, espe-
cially the ·f4bert!J of man; but ;Jesus
rra not very explicit on that im-portant article. (it1'the
·eontni.ry, from ·the train of his·discourse be appears ·to
'·recognize tbe of who bas no authority
over a single hair of bis head. St. Paul, his·
·: declares 'in inany places against the liberty· of111an•
.whom he:compares with a vessel' in the bands of a: pot.
ter.• But if there be no proportion between the work-
nino and ·his work; if the latter has no right to say to
· the ·former, why have you fashioned me thw? if there
• St. Augu;tiae saye,· tb&t •• it not · of hit
ai&cnlghta."
.. Digitized by Goqgle
\ '
•
be so analogy between them, bow can they bear auy
.relation to each other? ,if God is incorporeal, bow.d.oet
he act upon bodies ; or how can these bodies disturb hia
repose, or excite in him motions ofanger? Ifman is rela·
tively to God as an eartlzm 'IJau,·this vase owes neither
thanks nor adoration to the potter who gave him so io-
aignificant a form. If this poweris displeased with his
· own vessel because be formed it badly, or because it is
not fit for the uses he intended, the potter, if be is not
an irrational being, can only blame hjmself far the
defects wbicb appear. He no doubt can break it in
piecea, and the vase cannot prevent him ; but if, io-
ltead of forming it anew, and giving it a figure more .
suitable to his designs, be punishes the vase for the bad
qualities·he has himself conferred upon it, he would
shew himselfto be completelydeprived ofreason. TbiJ.
in fact, is the view which Christianity gives of its God.
lt represents mankind as having no more relation with
the divinity than stones. But if God owes nothing to
man; if be is not bound to show him either justic:e or
goodness, man on his part can owe nothill8 to God. We
have no idea ofany relation between beings which are
not reciprocal. The duties of men amongst tbemselva
are founded upon their mutual wants. If God baa no
.occasion for these services, they cannot owe him any
thing; neither can they possibly offend him by their
action•.
5thly, It is a very strange rem"y to' cut off or
. pluck out a member every time it isan occasion ofse&ll•
.tal or sin : it contradicts the precept not to make an
attempt gn one's life. Origen is blamed by the
Christians for having performed an operation, wbiah
doubt judged necesaary. for preserving his cbu-·
Digitized by Google
16&
tity.• lt not through the members, but the inclina-
tion,· that a person sins : it is therefore absurd to say
that)>ne shall 'escape damnation ·of the body by depriv-
ing of" himself a member. What become of
so many prelatt:ls and ecclesiasticallibertjnes, if to ap.
the lusts of the flesh, and make reparation for
they should take it into their heads to follow
the .counsel of Jesus?
f)thly. The suppression ofa justdefence ofone'e 'per- .
. son arid rights, against au aggressor or unjust litigant,
· is to overturn the laws of'every society. It is to open
a door to iniquities aml crimes, and render useless the
: exercise ofjustice. By such maxims a people could
exist ten years.
'itbly, The counsel or precept, to possess not-ping,
' amass nothing, and think not of the' morrow, would be
very prejudicial to famili'es ;--a father ought to prO..
• Aristotle and Epictetul ·recommended chastity of apeecb.
Jlenander said, " that a 'good man could never consent to de:-
llauch a virgin, or commit adultery." Til)ullus said, cana plJJJ:mt
Mark Antony " thank!' the Gods that he had pre-
med his chutity in his .youth." The Romans made laWI
114(8inst Father Tanchard inforins us, ''that the SiamBDI
in-bid not only dishonest actions, but also impure thoughts aBil
delires." It thus that chastity and purity of manners
were· esteemed even before the Christian religion existed. The
tiergy it is true, deny this, and incessantly cry out against unbe-
.lieYers and philosophers, whom they denominate dangeroui '"b-
. j«:U. Bui if we open history, we do not find that philosaphers
those who ·embroiled states and empires. Such event.
were _
almost universally produced by the· religious. Dom).
Dican ' who· poisoned the Emperor Henry XI. James Clement,
aDd Ravaillac, were not unbelievers. They were not philoao-
pbers,' ,but fanatic Christians, who led Charles I. to the ilcaft'old.
It Wll4 the prielt GoaWe, and not Spinosa, who let Holland on
ire, &c . ,
. .. .. .. . '
z
D1g1tlzed by
...
I I
'
. ..
vide a aubaistence-for his children. These maxima can
suit sluggards only, such as priests and monks, who
hold labour in horror, and calculate on Hviog at the
expence of the public.
Sthly, It ill now easy to perceive, that the promises
made the Jews by the mouth ofMoses, inspired by the
Divinity, have not been verified·literally, and are only
allegorical. But it was not from the 'Son of God that
the Jews should have this fatal truth. Once
deceived by .the Divinity, they ought to have dreaded
_
being again deceived by ·another envoy. Like .tesus,
.Moses bad made promises ; like Jesus, Moses ·bad con-_
firmed-his promises and mission by miracles; yet these
promises have been found deceptive, and merely a1le-
gorical. This idea ought to have created presumption&
to the promises·of Christ:• ·
·othly, To aay that it is necessary to.be.poor in;pirit, -
and to say afterwards that to 'attain heaven it is .neces-'
. . .
..• 'All'tli 'Btst ..
.... rmnaaea, .•
... II ..,...--r"
. tlte 'word 'or cii..%.st and his sobh l o s€
e'ihe ertd 6f 'ihe
'world, which, however, still endures. They looked, aay after day,
fur the llrrlval of Christ in the c;loudJ of kavm•• they reckot\ed
that he was to establish on earth a teml?oral-kiDgdom, which waa
I tQ a thousand years. Sevhal holy ooclors, ammig wn'6m
is St. have finnly ttlis'tallle bbitowed froin the
• golden age, or reign of Sahlin. Tne &tulth, reinarking that this
reign did not-arrive, ils opinion'on the IzUltfer, as on Mtny
others, arid declared tbe. M'illenarlafis here %s. St. Irerireus, liow·
..ev&, has left us a' poetical description· abundance ..
. - sua} pleasures, which tl.rls was to P.rop'ure. St. M"artyr
also this fine lUngaom. tome'2.
Yet we kpow not how to ' reconcile Ute prediction ottlie neartnd
of the world,made Christ, and tli1
e
as to the duration of' tlie world in St< Mark :nn. Igno-
rance atranse indeed in a God.
•
Digitized b
!Google
W, bQ perfect as the hea,venly Fatbu perfect,·is
tq mflke 'stupid being ; to afford to Atheists. a
solution for all the,evil they perceive in nature; and
to p.retend, that to enter paradise. onf! must be a fool•
. But baa man the power of being spiritual ?r poor in
spirit; reasonable or foolish, bel\eving. or unbeliey.-
ing? Is not the holy stupidity of faith a gift, wh.icb.
God grants only to wholl;l wilr? Is it not unju11t to
damn people 'of ? .
Lastly, In this sermon, ,Jesus t9
ware· ofjalst prophets, and says; that it is by their;
works we shall know them.-Yet as we b1).ve seeP,
the priests tell us," we ought to do as say, with-
OHt imitating what they do," when we find their con-.
dqct .little conformable to the maxims they
\'ia,s necessa.y, to - sign ,
w,orks, to fa,lB«: p,tophets, or ·
eJae tbe faithful will often be reduced to' $hat,
cJergy are provided Qnly with iyiQg pJ"oJ),bets. '
lt is this manner unbelievers is· to
• .,_y, all those who have not fl:9.m heAven
. spirit, so for not the
of inference, false incoqsW,
teocies, which most direetly resul.t,from the
Jesus. This morality appears a r,hifd' t't
docile Christians illuminated by, it we, wucij
by those who heard it Vf{e not,
however, ifmany of the auditors 80 by
to follow. it literally; to a doctrine,
it. true and divine, is a·thing much rowe than to
pf8ctise it. Many p.ersonsset a higher value qn evange-
virtues, are aublimein theory, than op the b'-J·
m•'! virtues, which reason commands us \O practise.•
1 • !lee Appendix,
Digitized byGoogle
•
.,
-
l6S
It is not then surprising, that the supernatural and
marvellous morality·of Jesus was applauded by those
who heard it. It was addressed to paupe,rs,, t\w dregs
of the people, and the miserable. An austere stoical
morality must please the wretched ; it
their actual situation into virtue; it flatters their vanity;
makes them' proud of their misery ; hardens them·
against the strokes of fbrtune ; and persuades them'
that they are much more valuable than the rich, who
maltreat them; and that the Deity, who deli,g.hts in !lee-
ing man sufter, prefers the wretched to those who
enjoy felicity. ' ' ; ·· .,
On the other 'band, tbe imagine, that tb&se'
possess the faculty of restraining their passibus,·
despising what men seek and ·depriving
selves of what exdtes'the desires of-others, are exir• .t
ordinary beings, ·not;·only agreeable to ·b\1tf
dowed by bim wiih pretetmiturat grace,
they would be inc11pable of the exertions 'tbe'y1
seen to make. Thus il harsh morality, wh.idi seems'to
proceed from insensibility. pleases·the rabble,
on the ignorant, nnd is sufficient to excite tile adm1ra-
tion of the simple. It is not even displeasing to per-
sons placed in more happy situations, wlio admire
the ooctrine, well assured of finding the secret to eli.ide
the practice of it, by the assistance of their indulgent
guides; there is only a small number of fanatics who
· foHow it literally.
Such were tht: dispositions which must have induc-
ed·so many people to receive the doctrine of Jesus.
Hrs:maxims tiatehed a multitude of obstinate martyrs,
'who, in the ·hope of opening to themselves a road to
set too·ments and atBictions nt defiance. The
.s.ame maxims proouced penitents of every knd,
' ·-
Digitized byGoogle j
. '
169
taries,·anchorites;.cenobites, and mookB,·w.bo·,,julemu-
lation o£ each . rendered .iHustri.oua
in the of nations by their austerities, volqqtary,
poverty, a total renunciauoo of the comforts of
and a eontin...al struggle again!lt the and
}awful inclinatiohs.• Tbe ceunsels and of tbe
gO'Bpel inundated nations with a of mad-
men, enemies of and
()tbers-- wonderful.men w.ere admired,
8Dd revered .as' saints· 'by their fellow .cil;izens, '!ho,
themse,ves deficient.in grace or enthusiasm.
for imitatiug them,.or following faithfully the
_of the. Son :of had recourse to their
in order to:obtain pardon for their sins, aud int:Julgence
from the Almighty, whom they supposei} ir.ritated at
tbe impossibility in wbicb'they found themselves of
feltowing literally the precepts of his Son. In fine,
it is easy to .pertei:ve, that ;these precept!J rigorous-·
ly observed, would drag into total r.uin,,
ciety is suPPQrted only becaqfe that most Christiana,
admiring .tbe doctrine of the Son of God as divine,
pense with practisiug it, .and follow the o.f
nature, even at the risk of·being damned.t
• To form a true idea of Christian morality, sucli .,j haa Jteen
taught by the most esteemed doctors,.we have only to read a work
of the l.tiarned Barbeyrac, fJUblished on the subject, under the title
ot 'l'raite de 14 morale des peres, in .C.to. Amsterdam, 1728.
t It i6 several times related in Leviticus xvii. 11 and U., that
tile IOid crnuiiU of the blood. .St. Paul atill further obscures the
question of the immortality of the soul In his first epistle to the
.Thessalonians, v. 23. not content . with making man ·double, he
makes hin1 .treble, and describes him as composed of bod!J, 10111,
·and lpirit. Thereafter he gives us to understand, that the .body
IUid 110ul are mortal, but,.that the· epirit ia immortal. Wkh·ree-
peet to the doctrine of the ren,.,.ectiole, ICholare baTe 11tewn
•
..._.___'"--- ·----. o;gii.zed byGoogle
!
I
...
1'70
In the gospel Jesus menaces wilh eternal pqaiah-.
ment ·those who shall not fulfil hit precepts. Thil
frightful doctrine !f&S not contradicted in tbe assembly;
• the love to tremble ; those whe threaten
them most, are the eagerly liateniog. This waa
undoubtedly the time fot establiahing firmly. tbe dog•
of the 'Pirittuluty and imfllorl4lii!J of. eoul. The Son
of ought to have to tboae but
little acquainted with this matter, how a part of mao ·
' could suffer in heJI, whilst another part was rotting in
the earth. But our preacher was not acquainted
with any of the dogmas which his churclt baa sim:e
taught. He bad not clear ideas of.spirituality ; be
spoke of it only in a very obscure · manner : •• Fear
. I
(said he, ·in on.e place,) him who can ·throw both
body and soul ·into 'hell'Lwordt- ·wllicb mud ha11e
appeared unintelligible iri .a language, in . which tiae
soul was taken for the 'blood or anitnating principle;.. .
-It was not till a .long time aher Jesus, aad when
some Platonist& had been initiated in that
the spirituality find immortality of the 8oul were.
verted into dogmas. :Before their time, tile Jews aa4
Cbristians' had only ngue on tbat importaat
sul!ject. We find doctors in the first ages
1,11_Qf qqli the soul a,s J,Dll,terial substan.ces, Q
,lore
M)>tile intked than lt.
for latter to gi-ve -.uch
·ofmiad, that our limited understandings are bewilder-·
ed when on them. '
• •
Digitized byGoogle
...
J
171
CHAPTER XI.
A'CTIOliB AND PARABLES OF .JESUS.-I:NTEB.PJUSE OF Btit
. '
RELATIONS AGAINST BIM..--.JOUB.NEY OF .JESUS TO
• NAZA.l\ETB, AND THE SUCCBBS BE BAD THERE.
THOUGH the obstinacy of the doctors of the Jaw
•nd principal men among the Jews created
obstacles to the success which Chi'ist had promised
himself, he did not lose courage; be again had recourse.' ·
prodigies, the certain mea1is -of captivating the
populace, on whom he plainly perceived it was ueces-
aary to found his hopes. This people were very sub·
ject to diseases of the skin, such as leprosy and similar
cutaneous disorders. No doubt can be entertainec.l on
this point, when we consider the precautions wbicb ·
the hi"' of Moses ordains againat these infirmities. To
establish his reputation. the more, Christ resolved to :
·undertake the cure of this disgusting disease witb 1
which his,countrymen were so much i!ltected. , ,
According to St; Luke, a leper came, and prostrat-
ed at the of Jesus, and adored him, say-,
ing, that he had heard · him spoken of as a very able
man, and that, if be was ·inclined, he could cure him:
-on this, Jesus merely stretched forth bis b11nd, and
tbe leprosy • Hitherto hfld only
. .
• it. Lab, '· 1». St. 'rili. St. .Ha*, J. to•
....
byGoogle
\
'
ITI
- recommended it to those he ·cured to go and present
• themselves to the priests, in order to offer them the·
gift prescribed in such cases ;• but on this occasion
he ti•,:ught that he would reconcile· them by strictly •
enjoining: this mark of deference; He therefore exacted
of the cured leper, that be would satisfy tbe ordinance
ofthe Iaw ; but at the sa.me t.ime. recommended secrecy
as to t_
he name,-a secret which w·as not
better by him tl)an by others. Jesus forgot
that it was not sufficient to impose silence on the.per•
aons be-cured, but that it was likewise necessary to Jay .
a restraint on all the tongues of the spectators; unless ·
it is .suppoeed that these miracle• were perform..
ed with shut doors,and witnessed by theSaviour's disci-
pies only; or, rather. that they werenot performed at,u. ,._
. Meanwhile, tM leper's indiscretion the cause
why Jesus, aceording to St. Mark,·no longer ventured
to appear in the city.t Th.e priests seem to have taken
in ill .mood the cllre be had perfOrmed : He therefore
Withdrew into the ' desart,:l: where the more he was
followed, the more he buried himself in·concealment..
It was in vain that in this situation the people desired
to hea.; him ; it was in vain that the sick, who rau
him their cure; be no longer
tliat marvellous virtue, to cure every dis-
order, to exhale from him.
· After having wanderea for some time in the 4esart.
ruminating on his affairs, he re-appea,red atCapern.aum. ·
Tile domeitic of a Roman centurion, much beloved ,_
f . . , .. . I . •. • : '
• Levit. m. and St. Matt. .w. to
- t , If•,
I
'''
his master, wu at the point·of death from an attack of
the palsy•. . This Pagan believed· that Jesus could
easily cure his slave; but instead of presenting him to
Christ, as he ought to have done, lie deputed
_Jewish senators, whom be seems to have brought front
Jerusalem, to wait on the Messiali. However die.:
tbit migl)'t be peraons wh08l
- tbe centurion h!ld no right .to comtnand, and wbo by
that step teetned t.o a'cknowledge the mission ofJesrii;
. .
these senaton performed it. Ch.rist, flattered
._eeing an apply to him·,, set ou.t ;,
but the centurion sent some of his.people to infonn
.fesus, that he was not worthy of the honour thtis in.:.
tended him by his house; ·and that to cure bitt
eervant it was sufficient to' speak orily one· word.
Jeius wu delighted with tbis'; he that
liW ,ot fotJnil ao much Jaitli ;,· l•r1ei,; and with one·
word, if the Go11pel may'be he performed the
He afterwards gave the Jewfil to underatitnd,'
that if they persisted in their hardness·ot (the'
only diseue which the Son of God could never
tbougli he .had come fbr' purposet,) the
ti'ous nations would be substituted-in their stead in the
inlieritance of heaven, and that· God, notwithStanding·
his promises;· woqld abandon his ancient friend& fof
evet and for·ewr. The however, does uot te1f
us, whether this ce't1turi6n:t so fu1lof' faith; waiJ
se1t
The day after· Jesus, haviug left Caper.
·-
l?igitized byGoogle
· '-
•
'
,
174
arrived .at Nain, a small town in Crlllilee, about
.twenty leagues distant, which proves that Christ was a
It will be, answered, that t.pe blindneu of the Jews wu allo
predicted by the same prophets who had predicted the re-
jection and death of the Messiah. To this I object that a
'Wise and omnipotent .GOd, who ..must always exactly adapt
hiB means to his ends, ought to have employed a more certain
aud efficacious mode of deliverance for his people ; but if he
did not intend their deliverance (and surely to know that the ·
Scheme adopted would f,dj ia tantamoWlt), then it wae useleea
to send his son, and to expose him to a certain and for.-
eeen death. It. will be said, that the corruption and
lleSS of the Jews had at length exhausted the patience of the
.Almighty, who, although he had sworn an eternal alliance
with Abraham's posterity, wu now determined in conse.
quence to break the treaty. It will be pretJmdJ tltat God
was now resolved to reject the Hebrews, and adopt the Gen-
tile nations, who had been the objects of his hatred for. 10'
long· a period; but IIUI'ely nothing can be JllOre
with just notions of an immutable Deity; whose mercies are
i!tfullte, and whose goodness ia inexhaustible. If the Mei-
&iah announced by the Jewish prophets was sent to the
Jews, then ought he to have been their deliverer, and not
the destroyer of their worship and nation. If it be reaDy
possible to discover any meaning ,in the obscure, enigmatical
oracles of the Jewish prophets-if any thing can be divined
in those inexplicable logographes which have been dignified
.with the pompous name of prophecies, we shall find that the
prophets, when in a good humour, always promised the Jews
an avenger of their wrongs, a· reatorer of the kingdoJll .of
Judea, and not an aboliaher of the religion of Moses. If the .
-Messiah was sent to the Gentiles, then .was he not the Messiah
pJ.OODrlsed to the Jews ; he could not be the destroyer of their
nation. If it be said, that ·Jesus himself declared he- came not
to abolish but to fulfil the law of Moses, then I ask why do the
Christians reject the Jewish diapenaation? , .
'Thus whatever way we take it, Jesus Christ could not be
the foretold the prophets1 ·since 'it is · evident tbll.t ·
Digitized byGoogle
175
great walker• .Fortunately he got there in time to per-
form an excellent miracle. A poor widow had lost
her son: they were already carrying him to be buried;
tbe disconsol!lte mother, accompanied by a great mul-
titude, followed the funeral procession. Jesus, moYed
with compassion, approached the bier, and laid 'His
band on it. Immediately those who carried it stop-
ped. You11g ma11 ! said Cbrist, speaking to the de-
ceased, I SU!J to' thee, .tlrise. Forthwith he who yvas
dead !'at up. This miracle terrified all the assistants,
but ronverted nobody. It is proper to remark, that
this tran11action is related by St. Lu.ke alone ; and even
if it wet·e better verified, we mightjustly suspect that
the diR..onsolate mother held secret intetligence with
the performer:• .
Some historians have made John Baptist live to this
period : others made him die much earlier. Here St.
Matthew and St. Luke introduce the disciples of the
precursor, on purpose to question Jesus on the part of
their "Art thou he tbat was to come, or look
,, I
he came to abolish the Jewish dispensation, which, though
blstituted· by God himself, had become obnoxious to him.
·If this mutable Deity, tired · with the worship of hi. chosen
people, had at last repented of his injustice to the Gentiles,
it wu properly to · them that he should have sent his son.
He would, in that ease, have spared hi1 ancient friends the
horrid crime of deicide, which he obHged them to commit,
by not teaching them to know whom he had sent. The Jewa
surely were excusable for not discovering their Messiah in
a Glilllean mechanic, destitute of the <'.haracters ascribed to him
by their own prophets, and who contributed neither to thcir hap- ·
pin818, nor to their deliverance.-PrmrvatiH opi'MI
Lond. 1812.
• St. Luke, 'fii. 11-11. ..
t it. Matt. :U. i. st. Luke,
o,gitized by Coogle
1'16
we for another ?" The Messiah in reply
miracles in their presence, cured the srek, cast out
devils, and gave sight to the. blind; after which he
said to John's deputies, u Go aud relate to John whet
you have beard and It was ·on this occasion
that JeBus pronounced the eulogy of John. He had,
· as we have seen in chapter fourth of this history, his
reasons for doing so. .,Amongst all those, "said be,
•• that are born of woman, verily I say unto you.. there
is not a greater than John Baptist." Our
profited afterwards by this circumstance to abuse the
Pharisees and doctors, lVho rejected both his b11ptiem
and John's. . He compared 'these unbelievers fo
"Children snting in the market place, and calling to
one another, we have piped to you, and you have not
danced ; we have chanted funeral airs, and ye have
not weeped." But we are not i,nformed whether tbie
jargon converted the ·aoctorst.
- After this our speech-maker compared his own con-
duct with that of the precursor. n John," aaid. be,
u·came- neither eating bread nor drinking wine, and
you saY.. he hath a devil. I drink, eat and love good
cheer, yet you reject me also,. under pretence that I am'
a drunken sot and a de6aucbee; and· that 1 freqtJent·
the company of men and women ofr bad
He gne the populace, however, to understand, that'
their suffrage was sufficient for hirti; ifbe bad told
them, ",1 am certain of you-you are too poor in apirit
,tb perceive of your!!elves the irregularity· of my·
dud-my wonders e.peeiMly· pan• with· 'ybu ·
• abeuld not refteet; you · are tb'e:true: cMltlrtta
_clem, whiclt'fftU be jurtijifd byyoat." · •
. \
I
• St. Matt. n 11. t Luke, vii. 18, i2l
St. Matt. ii. 11. St. Yii.A
Dig tized by Google
•
177 I .
After this harangue, a Pb.nsee, who, to judge ot
him by his conduct, bad been noways _moyed by Jesus,
inYited the orator to dinner ; but he used Christ in the
qost unpolite manner. He did not cause his feet to
• . be bathed, nor did he perfumes, according to,
the established cuatOIJl of the Jews towards every per-
son. Though the self-Jove of Jesus might be offended ·
omiasion, be did not decline sitting down at
table; but while be was eating, a woman of bad famf:
bathed h.ia feet with her tea1'8,' wiped them with her
beautiful bair, and thereafter anointed them with a
most perfume. The Pharisee did not com-
p.heAd the mystery. As stupid as incredulous, be '
conjectured that Jesu!f" did not know the profeseion of,
the.female; but he wu grossly miataken : the·courte- •
zan in question and all her family were. intimately
C(tAoected.with Chriat. St. John infurm& us, that she
W4lS called Mary: Magdalane, and that she wa" the sister·
o£;Martha and· La.zaru&, people well lmown to ·Jeau1-,
and who, as we shall very s6on see, held a regular
cwrespondeoce with bim. lh· particular· it appean;·
the moat teode1 sentiment•
for Son..of Q9<l, .
Thi!J aptiaiJo of.tbe diet .diacoaeer"*'- ,
;· be-.wi•-·bC'lbluov. thetcuea.-slle no.._.
, hin,t. 4eaied1·biin, ill'lt··
; aoc,hssuming: tbetone of"
h:t tier telnog, her that ber ·
e .• ;.ofr¥ntc-..iwcJ ........lilt ,tiM!·
..... •
oll!tJte ..
" aea. at.,_tlfatc q...._bu., btiJJau deiW. fa•·
...._ oh. CuJiJa &llu''Jim . Ba.,._, ..
'Ttrror .a a fmr haYt eqtiJlJ W a1tcarl; pi m8t.IIP:·
178
ains were forgiven on ac<:ount of the love she bad dis-
playe.!. St. Luke informs us in the chapter following,·
that Je1us bad delivered this lady of U'Dtll devi/,-8.
tervice which doubtless merited all her gOltitude. Be
that a• it may, Christ employed this indirect way of
1hewing the Pharisee the incivility of his behaviour to
.a man of his consequence.
The relations ofJesus, informed ofthe noise be made, ·
and suspecting that he could not lead a very pure life
amongst the gentry with whom he associated; or fearing
that his condu<'t in the end would draw him into some
affair,. went from Naaareth to Capernaum on
purpose to seize him, cause him to be confined.
They were evidently afraid of being involved. in his
disgrace, and chose rather to charge themselves with
the correction of their kinsman, than see him delivered
up to justice; an event which they foresaw was likely
soon to happen. They therefore circulated a
rumour, that be was a fool .whose brain was disordered.
belieYed that Jroe ought to attn"bqte to some divinity an thole
eftects which he could not aceount for. This is the reaeoa
why dreams, hysteric vapouu, and swimming In the· head.
have beeR looked upon aa divine inspiration& The Maho-
m.tana baYe etiD a great respect for foot.. The ChristiaDI
1'efJ1Ild.a 1trance u the favour ef · heaven; they call viafont
. things which otbera would caU folly, glddinees, and
of the brain. Womeft who are kyaterical aDd .
111bje,ct to vapoura, are the mOlt subject to vilion aad to
ataaiet. Penitents, and monb who ·fast, are mOlt eXJK*I
to receive the favoun « the MOlt HJgb, ar to han fanfalti.o
eal ar-m.. .. ..lccoJdtng . to Tacl"tua, the . Geruuma belie'V'ed
Oat women bad 8Clb1ething ef the Divinity. ·A.motlglt the '
.anges, it ... womeD who Gcited -tha fo wtar.. • 'Baa
Greeb w .... .,._ .. .,., .a ... Pro. ..
. -·
.......
Digitized byGoogle
• I
i
I
T
. '
179 •
·Jesus, informed 'of their arrival and the motive of
their journey, kept close in his quarters, had a
prodigy in resene for the moment they should appear.
The people who had.got a hint of this, or were told
beforehand by the emissaries of tbe· Messiah, ;epaired
thither in a crowd. As soo.n as the relations appeared,
a blind and rdumb man \\·ith a devil was
brought forth: Jesus exorcised. him,,.the possessed was
delivered,' and the people were in admiration.
Th'e doctors beheld with 'pain the credulity'of the
rabble, and foresaw the consequences <1f The kins-
men ofJesus, little affected by this miracle, promised
to the doctors to use all their efforts to deliver ':IP to
so dangerous a man.-He is a sorcerer, said
he is a prophet, said others ; he must prove.it, said a
third ; and, notwithstanding the great miracle he had
performed, others added, Let'us ask Ofhim a sign in the
air ? " Good God," said theNazareoes, " he is neither
sorcerer JJOr prophet; we know him better than any
body; he is a poor lad whose is disordered." _
All these speeches were rdated to Jesus ; he
swered them by parables and invecti•es, apd defended
himself from the charge of being u wizard, by 11aying
it was a,bsurd to maintain that he cast out devils by
the power of..devils. As to the imputal,jon of folly,
be repelled it with affirming that whoever should at-
tack hinl on the'score of understanding. could not ex-
pect the remission of his BillS either 10 this Of in the
_ other world. This undoubtedly is what must be
,derstpad by the Si" again•t H"llJ·GAurt.
the mtdway coutl'e of. ·a
was followed ; tor this purvo,.e a deputation was
\' to .Jeaus ; ,but instead ofa sicn in tbe air be gave
BB
. f
Digitized byGoogle
•
'·
•
ISO
them one in the water. He referred our
folks to Jonas, and told them they should have no
other; for, added he, " As Jonas was three days and
three nights in the belly of the whale, so shall the
Son of man be three days and three nights in the ·
heart of the earth!' The Jews, who ·were neither
wizards nor prophets, could not comprehend thrs !an..
guage. Jesus, to whom miracles cost nothing When
every thing was arranged.for performing them, did uot,
risk himself by working them impromptu, or in the
presence of those whom be judged acute·enough to
examine this occasion he put otr these
poor Jews, wh6m he calculated on converting to hitn-
self for with an unintelligible answer.
The refusal to perform a prodigy in the air creates a
beliefthltt Jesus declined the contest: raillery was intro-
duced: the Son of God got into a passion, and l&ttn<(hed
eut in prophetical invectives against the Jews. He
compared the conduct of the queen of Sheba with
· theirs; boaeted ,of his being greater 'and wiser tblln
Solomon; and t!hreatened to deprive the!m of the Jight
·which he shed in their country•. 'We are of opinion
however, that, if he had deigned to consent to gh'e the
sign demanded, be would spread tliis light much
further.-But ·there is reason to· believe the Messiah
felt that a sign in the air was·rttucb more difficult than
tll those he1lad given on the earth, where he was befter
·able ·to arrange matters than altift in the atmosphere,
a region in which there wa11 bobody tt> concert ·with.
Meanwhile. Jesus''rnotber bad joined ber oiher chil-
dren and relations in order to soothe and engage them
to desist from their punuits. but'she could not prtflil
on them. Tbey peraisied in the.· de&ign c:;flt*king up
Digitized byGoogle
18\
our a.dventur.er: but as they could not penetrate
the multitude and get close up to him, they
seat notice they were. there. " Behold," said some
ol)e to Jesus, " thy moth,er and thy brethren who seek
thee."-.-Chriilt knowing the obJect of their-visit-which
he was no ways eager to receive, abjured such froward
r-elations: " Who is my mother, and who are my .bre-
thren?" said he; after which, stretching forth his baud
the people, " Behold,'' added he," my mother,
and my brethren; I know no other kinsmen than those "
wh,o hearken to my word, and put it in practice." The
people, flattered with the preference, took Jesus under
their protection, and the attempt of ·his family was
tbus turned to rbeir confusion•.
Eieaped from this perilous adventure, afraid of .be-
iQg unawares, or mistrusting the constancy of
tbe populace, who, notwithstanding the pleasure'they
fo"nd in seeing him perform his juggles, might desert
him at htst, Jesus thought proper to provide for his
slj.fety by leaving the town t. He accordingly de-
parted with his twelve apostles, the ladies of his train,
Mary his mother, Jime and Magdalane, UJ4o assisted the
f.flit4 their 'There ia reason to be-
lieve that the last, wbo, before she was with the Mes-
ltillb, bad made gain of charms,· was ricb in jewel•
J9ti ready money. This her conversion of
itJJp9ftl;lnce to tl'e sect, nod especially to Jesus,
wba could without crt.Jelty, refuse to repay se
m.uch it>ve with a little
. persec!Jtioq which Jes4s experienced
tlD in qis beb,lf, and it would seem
• St. Matt, a&.Miulk. ili..l'- ylli. It.
t St. Matt. xiii. 1.
_Digitized by Go le
,
182
him greater countenance. A multitude of people im·
pelled bl curiosity, as soon as they knew the road be
had taken, went out of the towns and hamlets in the
environs to see him. To avoid being incommoded by
the C((\Wd, he again reso) ved to go on board a vessel;
and having done so, be began to preach to those on
.$bore ; but recollecting the scrapes which his former
sermons had brought him. into, he did not think it pru-
dent to explain himself so clearly; be, therefore, pre-
./' fened speaking in parables, which are always-suscep-
tible of a double meaning. It may be believed the
explication of these enigmas was circulated by means
· of the apostles,"to whom Jesus gave it in charge•.
One day, chagrined at his. little il!Ccl!ss, be distinctly
·avowed that he had changed his resolll'tion as to the
Jews, and meant to abandon their conversion. Tbe
reason for doing so he expressed to them in pa.rables;
" that seeing," said he, " they may, not perceive, and
hearing they may not understand, lest at any time
they should be converted, aud their sins should be for-
·giveu them.t"
It must'pe ow.ned, that it is very difficult to recon-
cile this conduct 'of God. Were we not afraid ofcom-
mitting sacrilege by hazarding conjectures on tile
mission of Jesus, it_ not be presumed that at
• nrst he had the design of giving laws to the Jews, but
perceiving afterwards his little success, be resolved, as
be began to be disparaged in that country, to seek his
, fortune elsewhere, and gain other subjects? What be
_ entrusted to his disciples in this secret interview, ap.
pears to ·have beea for the purpose of preparing them
. -
•-=st. Mark, b·. 10.' t St.Mark, .,., It.
Digitized byGoogle
•
183
for this change : but his punishment prevented all hie
. designs, which were not executed till a loog time after
by his apostles, who no doubt · carefully treasured up
this conference.
We should not enter into a detail of all the parables
which Jesus employed in communicating his marvel-
lous doctrine to the Jews,'or preaching without being
understood. Such a discussion would become very
tiresome: we therefore advise those who may have
taste-for such kind of apologues rather to read those of
Esop or La Fontaine, which they-will find more amus-
ing and more instructive than the fables of Christ.
Those, however, who wish to consult the parables or
apologues ofthe gospel, will find them in the following
places:-
T!le parable of the sower, Luke, viii. 5-"'f the con-
cealed lf!mp, ib. viii. the teres, Matt. xiii.
24-of the seed, Mark iv. 26-of the grain of mw-
tatd, \latt, :x.iii. !H--of the lea-r;en, ih. xiii. 33-of ,
the. hidden treasure, ib. xiii. 44-of the pearl, ib.
xiii. 45-of the r1et cast into' the sea, ib. 47-and
of thefather ofthe familfj, ib. 52.
,Jesus informed that his brothers and cousins were
from home, went to Nazareth accompanied with his
apostles. He perhaps wanted to·convince his country-
men that be was not such • fool as was reported. Pro-
_, bably he hoped to confer with hiiJ family, and gain
them over to his He arrived on the sabbath, and
repaired to the synagogue : immediately the priests
very politely presented him with a book ; be opened it,
and stumbled precisely on thi_s4 passage of Isaiah:
"The spirit of tbe'LoJd has rested upon me, and there-
fore 1 am anointed to prellch.'' Having shut the book;
Digitized byGoogle
,
' .
184-
he delivered i.t to the priest and sat down l hot be did
not neglect to apply to himself this passage of the .
prophet, also mention is made of miracles aru\
prodigies. There were present, either by chance Of
· several Galileans, who having beeo .wito.eases
of the marvels he had performed the year preceding..
did not hesitate to bear testimony in his faveur. But
the Nazarenes, who knew what to think of were
shocked at his magisterial tone. "Is not this," said
they to one another, "the carpenter, the son of Joseph
the carpenter ? Is not his mother called Mary ? Are
not his brethren and sisters with us? Whence then
has he so much skill ? How' and by what means does
be work the. miracles related to us?"
Jesus, hearing these discourses, 1aw plainly that this
was QOt the proper place
But he wished his inaction might be attributeq to
the evil dispositions of his countrymen, who were
prised to hear the sagacity and power ofa man vaunted,
whose conduct appeared to them very equivocal•.
"I see well/' said Jesus to them, " that you apply
to me the proverb, Physician cure thyself;. and that,
to prove the truth of the marvels you have heard of
me, you wish me to perform some of those fine Ieger.,.
demainswhich I have elsewhere exhibited; but I know
I shall labour in vain in this city: I am too well coo•
vinced of the truth of the proverb, No man is a
prophet in his own country." To justify himself he
quoted examples which would seem to tprow 1J. suspi-
cion on the miracles of the prophets of the Testa-
ment, whom this proverb, even by itself, was calcu-
lated to make pass tor knaves. Whatever opinion
may.form of this, he cited the of E.lia•,
Digitized b
y
Google
·186 \
among all the widows of Israel, did not find one more
of a miracle than her of Sarepta-, a womau
of the country of the Sid6nians. In the days of Elias
Judea was overrun with lepers,; .and yet the Prophet
cured Naaman·, who waa a Syrian and an idolater, in
preference to his countrymen.
This harangue, which tended to insinuate the repro-
"'bation and of the audience, .put .them .into
ill humour, and excited their rage ao much, t.bat tbey
dragged the orator out of the synagogue, and .led him
to the top of a mountain with an intention to throw
him down headlong; but he had the good fortune to
and tlius. avoid 'the fate which was intended •
him in the place of his nativity.
St. Mauhew, speaking of this journey to Nazareth,
say!\ thtat his master did n<>t pedbrm many miracle&
there on account of the unbelief of the. inhabitants.
'But St. Mark aays positively, that he could not do anJ,
which is still mere probable.•
Our luminous interpretersand·commentators believe,
that Jesus escaped only by a miracle out of the han<ls
of the Nazarenes. But would it have cost him more
to perform a miracle in order to convert them, and
_thereby prevent their mischievous designs ? This waa
all that was required of him, and !hen be would not
bave stood in need of performing a miracle in order to
lave himself and place his peraon in security. Jesus
never performed miracles but with certain loss; he
always dispensed with working any, when they would
bave been decisive. ·
._ on this fact, 'St. 'Matt. D. 11. St. Mark, ri.' St.l-Uke,
tr.'lllnd"riti.
Digitized byGoogle
'
186
. I
CHAPTER XII.
•
' lfiiSION OF THE APOSTLES. THE INSTRUCTIONS JESUS GAVE
THEM. MIRACLES WROUGHT BY HIM UNTIL THE END
OF THE SECOND YEAR OF HIS OWN MISSION.
DISSATISFIED with his expedition to Nazareth,
Jesus went to Upper Galilee, which bad already been the
theatre of his wonders. He found the inhabitants of
that country in a disposition better adapted to his pur-
pose. He perceived, however, that the necessity they
were under of suspending their labour in order to come
and hear him, kept a great number at home. This
consideration obliged him to disperse his apostles by
two and two in the province; It is probable, he re-
solved on this dispersion because he found his own
sermons and prodigies did not gain proselytes enough.'
The continual enterprises of his enemies madf'! him feel
the necessity of increasing his pat:ty.
It appears that Jesus had already seat of hit
disciples on mjssion, retaining near himself his twelve
_ apostles only; it may, however, be .presumed that these
preacher§ ·were as yet mere novices; their labours
were unsuccessful; for they found the devils so obsti-
nate as to resist their exorcisms. Yet this want of
success was owing solely to the weakness of their faith,
and would seem to throw a shade on the foresight aod
_penetration of their divine Why be send
byGoogle
lniaeionaries w®ee dispositions were .llot lldllcienti.J
kuown to him? Besides, it belonged to him to
bestow on them before baQd neceasary stock of faith
for theirjouroey. ·
Whatever opinion may be formed of this, there is .
reason for believing that apostles,wh()oever quitted
their master, saw him continually operating. enjoyed
hie confidence, and bad faith first hand-were
better qualified than the disciples to labour to the sam-
faction of the public. Thus Jesus, fully resolved tQ
aike a renewed aU tbetr powers, and
pve .them iostructioDB, of which the following is
.file .aubs.tance: " Eve,ry thing being well cobsidered.
.not .go among the Gentiles, our Jews will
ebargr it as a crime against us, and will employ it aa
a reproach against me. It is true I .have already
threatened.to reoou.nce.them,. bqt it is still necessary
to.make one more; will ther-efore prea<:b,
to.the Jews,oaly;. .· supposes .sobriety aD4
few wants; hence the inutility of riches. I have no
mooey to give you, ·but.strive to pick up for yourselYes
,what you can.. Provideo,ce will provide for you; if·
he takes care ofthe sparrows, he.will you.
Moreover to be ill received, reviled, a"d per&e·
cuted; but be of good courage ; all is for the best.
Sileoce 'is no lObger requisite ; preacb. openly •n
the houee .tops :what I have spoktn to.:you in
Inform the wdrl<'i ihat·I am the Messiah, the liOn ee
Da}'id and the Son of God. We 'have no longer t<r
obsel've discretion.; w.e either conq.uer or die;'
away with pusillanimity.. , . · . . ·
- ·"Though! §end·yotl ·fOJtit:u sheep iB the of
wolves, explain to the g()Od people that you are
C(;
•
Digitized byGoogle
\ .
' '
•
188"
the safeguard orthe Moat Hight who will take a tefti..
ble revenge tbr the outrages offered yoiJ,
reward those who you.•-Yeu do not require
to measures for supplying yotlr expences; it
belongs'to those whose you ure going to save to
for the wants of your bofiies; carry not there-
fbre either gold, or silTer, or provision, or two of
raiment; take a good cudgel, and depart in the namte
of' the Lord. ' · -
· _,. Take care in your way always to preach -that U.
lti'rigdom df hetJ'Oeft' itJ at Itami. Speak of thQ end of tbe:
world; this will intimidAte l'VOmen and. poltroOns. OIJ.
entering cifielt and villages, inform youraelf undertaand
o'f sut:h eredulous people, as are ftry charitable aacl
prepossessed in our favol.lf', You will salute tbeaa
civilly; saying, Peace be lo tlail Aotnt. But the peace
you bring must be only allegorical; for my doctrioe is
C::alcul'ated to .Create trouble, discord, and di,ision,
every. where. Whoa.er would follow me must abao-
don father, mother, kinsmen, and family; we want
on1y fttncies and entbuaiasts, who,ettacbiog trnamselfta
wholly to us, trample every human consideration under
foot. . I carnotet to leNd peace, bril a •ltlff'tl· · As a like
conduct,migbt embroil you with your host!, you will
,..
• It was eridently in tltrict compliance with
tbit J'Cllm Calvin, on the 80th of 1861, w:rot.e -tM
f'ollowing Jetter to the High Chamberlain of the King of Navarre: , ,
-" Hon9r,· glory, and riches, shall be the reward of your
pains; )ut abon all, do not fail to rid the c:Ounq-y of thoR
zealoua scoundrer&, who stir up the people to revolt againt w:
Such monsters should be exterminated, t11 I errtmnlllatrl
¥lcba.el Seratua 1be Sp.aiard."-V'lCJe lkde1o
,p. h8. .
•
by Coogle
•
i8t
chuge your abode from time to time.· . De oot rely
ou the power I bne of raisin« the tbe-aafelG
way for you ia to risk your beiag killed;· •u
therefore places where you sball find yooraelvet
menared with persecution. Leave- di&obedie»t cities
and houses, aAGioing dtUt frora off tjow fMt. TeH
tbem, tbat they ·have mcurred tbe puniabment of
. Sodom and Gomorrah. Declare, in my name. t\w
diliQe ven«eance is ready to make them eensible. of
tbeir guilt; and tbat tbe inhabitants .of
be leas rigorously punished tbttn tboee wbo. sbaall hafe
tti andacity to resiet your Tbe great and
day is at band: r-asaure you, that you shall DQt·h&fe
4iaitbed your tour through all tbe cities of lsttelo
before the Sou of mao shall arrive •."
Such is the sease aad spirit of the instructioDt which
JtHS gave · to bie apostles. In charging tbem te
divulge his secret, be gave tbem a comrnission,·wbicb,
notwithstanding his omnipotence, be himself dared
• , not · But it.was a grand policy to have in:-
atruments to act, without expgsing himself perBonrilly
iD the• matter. ·.,
Theee trifles, however. ecarcely merit tlotice )oo-We
ate m'ore surprised to find tbe Son orffi>d pt'oclaiming
peace and charity, and at tbe sante time that
he.brings war hatred. Jt.,is without doubt a God
C>Dly who can ·reconcile these contradictions. It ia
bll!itides uuquestionable, .that -the apostles, and ope-
dally their suceess()rs in the sacred ministry, have in
preaching their gosp.el brought on world 'troubles
. . ;
aod divisions unkopwn, io p.receding
. r
• St. Matt. x. St. Mark vL St. Lulle·ix.
c c 2 •
.. ..... . ..........
. .
\
t90
The . who by tho way r.rt'er to the h'atory
of the cburcb, find, tbat the glad tidingr which tbey
.came oo purpose to aouo.mce, halVe plunged the human
race into tears and blood • •.
It ia obyious from his language, that Jesus charged
people of property with tbe maintenance of his apoli-
.-,tee. Their successon have taken sufficient advantage
()f.tbis, and through it auumed an authority·to eser-
cin for many ages the most cruel extortions on im·
po.erisbed nations. Would not the Almighty have
rendered his apostles more respectable by rendering
&\\em incapable ef suffering, and exempting them from
the wants of nature? . There is reason to believe, that
tbia would have given more weight to their sublime
eermons and tbose of their infallible successors.
Critics maintain also that it waa false to say near
eighteenhundredyears agotile endofth. eorld _,.,
• If the Christian religion be aa is pretended, ·a restraint
to the c:rimee of JlleD. ;-if it produces salutary effeets on 11010e
individuaJa....,am theae advantages, so rare, so inefficient and
doubtful, be compared with the evident and Immense eriJa
wJaich this reJJpm has produced on the Can the ...-
vmtion of a few trifling crimes, some conversiOBIJ to
eociety, some sterile and tanly repentances, enter into the
belance .Si'ain.lt the pezpetual dissenaiona, bloody wars, honid
pmecutiona, and crueltieS, of which the ChristiaJa
·JeliBion has been a continual cause and pretext? · For one ·
teeret sinful thoUght suppressed by it, there are enn whole
IUidmaa armed for reciprocal destruCtion J the heiJrta of
fA f'alladca are intlamed; f4milies and ..._ are phmged into
eonfusl.on; and the earth bedewed with tearB and blood.
After this, let common sense decide the magnitude of
adYantages which maokind derive from the glad tidi"'ff which
Chrlatiana pretend to hav,e reteived from their
191
-'nd more false stiU to affirm that the greatJudge would
arrive before the could have time k) make the
tour of the cities of lsj1iel. ·It is true, tbeologista un..
detatand that the end of the world shall happen when
). all the Jewish cities, tbat is, when all the Jews shall
, be converted. will demonstrate whetber jt be
in that sense· we' ought to understand the words of
Jesus: meanwhile the world still remains, and does
not appear to threaten speedy ruin.
It is likewise very probable, that, besides these pub-
lic instructions, Jesus gave more particular ones to bis
apostles. 1
They .depanted in the hope of charities
which they were to receive from Jews, of whom. the
greatest number were already io a state of reprobatiou,
qr damned in pttte by Providence. Jesus altered bis
orders in part; he rese...ed for himself the cit-ies, ancl
left tbe villages only .to his a.pbstles. Accordingly
they went here and there, calling out, Hear"en to
g/ftl tidings ; the fiJOrlll i• near its end. . 'R,epetJt
fore, Prtltf• fast, gi'De 111 money and.proviiiom, for.
ha'Ding acquainted you fl!ith thi• interelting aecrd., We
are al11o assured, that they cured several diseases by the
application of a certain oil. They bad doubtless done
more excellent thi'ngll, but the paraclete (the comforter)
was not yet come: maugre the instructions of tbe Sou
of God, the underatandings of the apostles were not
yet sufficiently brightened • ; for we do not find that
the missionaries, with their balsam and fine speeches,
,made many converts. Tbe incredulous are still mucll
•rprised-to 6nd, in. tbe inl!tructions Qf Christ to hia
-apostles, an explicit order to labour only for the con-
Digitized by Coogle
(
I
.,
-.
te'rs!oo oftheJews, aod an expre&f prohibition agaioat
to the Gentiles. They maintain, that a
ri8h&leous God could make' no of persons ;
tbat the common_fatherof mankind muit showan
:ao- to all his children • ; that it cost oo more to tbe
• What should we say of the Cather of a numerous oftipring,
who should· waste aD his fundness upon one cbfld, and never
admit the rest to m pnseaee, anc1 then punWt them. Cot
having no· of hill periOD? Weald not IUCb a con- ,
Uuet deoote apric.e and eruelty:?..Would he not be guilty
or .an iDJusth:e that we have never heard of in the moat
depraved and unfeeling of our species? How could a Cather
think of punishing a cbD.d for not doing !Is will, which he
thought proper to conceal from him? We muet, therefure,
eOnolude tat a pea:t:ieUia- zwel&tion •JIN-IUppclleS not a 8QOd
L ml eqtitable God, but_. 8D UJljutt q wbilnlical tyraat_
tr.ll9, if he be lavieb of his favours to a few, is at least cruel _,
aad unJust to the rest. Revelation, in this.. cue, does not
prove the but the caprice, of a being, whom religion
declares to be the perfection of wisdom, benevolimce, and jutQre,
and the «iooltmon father af aD the · race.· J1 ee¥mtenat
aboul4 carry • i!w to aciJDb.e the lUdden wap of the •
.n.t oiJ8ht. the 1D81Q" tq tJaink who a11e made the victima
of hit injllltice and ·partiality? Assuredly pride' alone could
ever. have .induced a particular people to fancy themsel'f'es
the privileged or their race, and the only 'favoured of heava. -
JIJinded by vanity, they perceived not the wrong""\hey oflered
lhelr Creator, In preiUDIIng that-all W. "d.'eatures, being equiiiiJ
tbe· ftlk of his l&lda, ware not equaUy the 'ObjectB of his
care .and atfeGtion. It is, nenrtlt.eleas, upon .particular revda-
tious•.that all the religions in ·the world are founded. AI
. eveiy man has the· vanity to think himself of moi:e 'import,..
_ alice .than his fellow, so has every naticm oOnceited tbat
t!Jey ·were the exelusiTe fa'f'OIIrites of ·tM· author •of nu.t.
If ·the lndlebs belieYe .t,bat Braiu tPollie for their inet.rw>-
tion alone, . the Jews and the Christiaris are persuaded that
the world .ww c:rutecl u tJum,... qd that Juas mani·
felted himself for th.D agaifl#t Religioul
- .
Digitized byGoogle
.198
Almighty to eonfeli nd nve all natiolls; the a
who ia friendly 'to ·one country only, is a Qed p\trely
local, and CMJnot be the God of the universe; and·that
a Ood parti-', etc:cluai•e, and unjust, who follows ea.
p'rict; alone in his cboice, can neither be perfect ·nor
die modelof perfecttion. b abort, thosewho
tbe happiness of beiftg blinded by faith, een..
JIOt (!oraprebend how the equitable and wise Lord of'
.U tbe natioh& of the eArth could cheritb excluai.ely
tbe hwilh ptople; .his infinite prescience ought to
ha-ft shown him that his love and favours would be
CZdlllpletely loat on this untractable people.
:Unbelievers that ie doe& not become the Son .
tf God to exdaim, '' W6e unto thee, Cboratin! woe
unto thee, BetbsaidaI for if the migf)ty works·which
were done you bad been dbne ·in Tyre and Sidon. ·
they w,ould ha've repented long ago in sackcloth.and
, ..bet., Would it not ·have been wiser to go· and
preaeh to citiel where Christ was certain of
auccees, than 'to persist. in preaching to the Jews, as·to
whom be was certain of miscarrying ? .
. lesUt, now left alone, went about preaching through
man,y cities of Galilee; but deprived of the auistance
of bk dear conftdeftts, be did not in these places work
any ·
We ba.e I,Jitllerto seen magistrates and the great
paying .little attention to·the conduct of Jesus;
despised a man whom they regarded as avagrant, or
afool little to be feared. "'fis ·•rue, that some of
Herod's office" are said to have been on the watch,
w\th the Pbarise9, to destroy him; but this
.combination had no·success. After all, the n_ew rois,_
o; 'tizedbyGoogle
.&oaary could give umbrage aolely to the Jewish prieatl"
and the doctors of Jaw, againet whom be declaim·
od with the greatest indecorum. By tbia condact be
' rendered very agreeable to the people, loag
weary of the extortions of these public bloodsucker.,
who, without ·pity, drained tbe nation, .treated. 'bel
pporer sort with disdain, and, as the .parable of the
priest and the evinces, were .o£
charity. The priests and 4oc:tore were very numeroai
in Jerusalem; on which accoqnt the .people .in.
·capital, as we have seen, ·were less tbu elae-1
1 where to listen to our pr¢acber, and .t,hctre. is
to believe, that tbe priests were. the of Ule
and contempt -agailtat · him in
great cit1. .
. By a very singular contrariety, the 11)08t obscu.re
intenal in·our"l;aero'slife was that w\)erei.n be aef!UireQ
the greatest •• Jesus was wh())ly uoknowti Q
the court of Herod; while at the bead of his
multitudes, be chased
gave sight to the -
blind and to the mute, expel,.
led the sellers from the ..and raised .the, dead.
But while he led a private life in durr
the mission of, he found himself alone
and without followers, and content preaching re.
pentance,-it was then ibat his fame, pel\etratiog even
to the throne, excited in the monarch a desire to
tee him. According to Luke, a ray oflight
the heart of doubt filled his mind; " John,'•
he, « have I caused to Pe beheaded, but be
have from the dead, and therefore it. is that "
urany Qliracles are peJ:formed by him i bu.t should
Digitized byGoogle
:
.J9i
this be of whom I hear such great things?" Herod
must see Jesus to explain these matters, and for this
purpose he sent for him•.
If nature had given Christ unquestionable rights to
1 the throne of Judea, we might believe that pre-
tensions were his motives for not putting himself in
the power of a prince, the usurper'of his .crown. .Bat
Jesus could not that his pretensions were not ·
too well established; he knew besides, thatfor a lang time
past the fam'ily of David had lost the sovereign power.
We must therefore search for another motive for his
refusing to see Herod ; the more so, as the interview
with the Son ofGod would not only have contributed
to the conversion of this prince and all his court, but
even of all Judea, and perhaps of the whole Roman
empire. A single miracle of consequence, performed
before a court, acknowledged and attested by persons
of high authority, would doubtless have been more
effectual than the suspected testimony.of' all the pea:.
santry and vagabonds in Galilee. Far from comply-
ing with the re-quests of Herod, and performing so
eminent a benefit, Jesus withdrew ipto a desert as soon .
as learned the prince's intentiont. He who often
· uttered the most terrible cf(U"ses against such as reject·
ed him, scorned the invitlltion of a sovereign, and fted
into a desert, instead of labouring for his conversion.
The Messiah, who. made no diffic.ulty in entering the
bouse of a centurion to heai his slave, refused to visit
a monarch in order to cure his blindness, and . bring
• St. Luke, v. 'T. &c. St. Mark, vi. 14, &c. Matt. xiv
I, &c.
t St. Matt. xiv. 13.
DD
·oigitized byGoogle
, .
,
196
back to himself all his subjects, for whom, be affirmed
that be was specially sent!
Our theologians explain these contradictio11s by re-
ferring us to the inexplicable decrees of Providence.
But" the incredulous maintain, that Jesus, who well
knew bow to work wonders in the t'yes of a simple
' .
populace, dared not to expose himself before an en-
lightened court; and it must be owned, that the man-
ner. in which he comported himself before his jurlges,
before whom be was afterwards ..to appear,
this' opinion.
Meanwhile, the mission of the apostles expired.-
In a short time they had travers,,d Galilee: and it ap-
from. the repast which Jesus soon after j?;ave to
a crowd of people .that the preaching of his misMiona-
' ries bad procured an abundant , harvest. Loaded with
the alms of the Galileans, the apostles returned to their
master, who again found incommoded by lhe
multitude which flocked to see hi!ll•...,..To enjoy more
liberty, the party embarked ott board a small vessel,
-which conveyed them across the sea of Galilee.
There, in n retired spot, the apostles gave au account
of the success of their mission-they made arraoge-
ments for the future, and especially secured their pro- ·
visions in a place of safety.
Those who had seen Jesus embark, thought, perhaps,
they were for ever to be deprived of the pleasure of
seeing him perform wonders. _ They made the tour of
the lake, and tbougll on (oot, reached tbe other side
before Jesus. arrived there in bil' vessel. He preached
to them, wrought miracles and cured the diseased ;
these labours lasted until the evening.-Hii disciples
- that devised him to send away .the people from the
Digitized byGoogle
'
1917
desart that they might go in search of lodging•
and .victuals in the neighbouring villages. . He made
no reply on the article of lodging ; - there were
doubtless few persons in this multitude who were ac-
customed to sleep on down-bef>ides, the nights were
·li\tely not cold in that season and climate. But wish-
ing .to amuse himself witb. the embarrassment of those
who the proposal, and who migut not know the
resources which the collections of his apostles had pro-
'(It is necessal'y." said he, " that they should
go the them, yourselves, whe;ewitb
to eat." " Think you so?" replied they,-" shall
we· buy two.hundred pennyworth of bread, and
give them to who perhaps was not in
sCC.ret•, represented the impossibility of finding
to feat this multitude: Upon which Christ said
" See bow many loav-es you have." He
(ound none at all-a circumstance tbe more surpriz-
iag, as, according to St. Mark, they bad withdrawn to
place "on purpose to ·eat.t" Peter, without ans-
wering tbe question, said to his master, " There is a
youog here, who five barley loaves and two
6QlaU fisbes." ordered them· to be brought, and
made the multitude range themselves in companies of
h"ndrcds and. of fifties.-From this arrangement it
that there were five thousand men, besides
women and children. When every one had taken·bis
on the graSES, Jesu•, according to the 11sage of
tke Jews, blessed the loaves and fishes, broke, and dis-
. .
• In important affairs, it wu alwaye Peter, James, and
John, whom Jesus employed.
• . , # •
t St. Kark, vL ,:31.
, ..
\
Digitized byGoo:gle
198
tcibuted them among the apostles, who gave thereofto·
the people as much as they desired'; they likewise
filled twelve baskets with the fragments of this cele-
brated entertainment. The guests, penetrated with-
admiration, exclaimed, "This is of a truth a prophet,
aod that prophet who should come into the world•,"
which, translated into ordinary language, means, Tbe
true Amphitrion is he who gives us our dinner. The
apostles apoke not a word.
Some critics, founding on the impossibilities this
miracle presents, have ventured to doubt the truth of
.it: as'if the impossibilitg of things could prejudice the'
reality of a miracle, the essence of is to pro-
duce,things impossible. Yet if attention is given ro
the of tbe evangelists, who are not, however,
. very unanimous on particulars, we shall find, that this
miracle presents nothing impossible, if we are inclined
to give any credit to the prudence of the Son of God, J
who on this occasion, found that be could not make a
better use of the provisions amassed by. his apostles,
than to distribute them to a hungry multitude. By
I
this act, be saw.himself certain of gaining'their fayour.
It may be, the crowd was not quite so numerous as is
related. Besides, OUI' apostles, in passing to the oppo-
site shore, might have thrown their nets with sufficient
success to furnish fish for the company assembled.
TbH! meal must bave appeared miraculous to persons
who knew that had no fortune,.and lived on alms.
We accordingly find, that the people wanted to pro-
claim king,theperson who ha.d so sumptuously regaled
• St. Mark, vi. 31-4.4. St. Matth. xiv, 18, &c, ancl St.
. -John, vi.
···o;gitizedbyGoogle
199
them. The entertainment no doubt recalled to their
tnind the idea of a Messiah, under whose government
abundance was to. reign. No more was requisite to
induce a handful of miserables to believe, that the
preacher, who by a miracle Jed them so liberally,
must be the extraordinary man the nation expected.
This great miracle then will become very probable,
by supposing that the apostles in their collection bad
received a· large quantity of bread. They amused
themselves, as has been observed, with fishing while
· they crossed the lake; Jesus gaTe them the hint:-
when evening was come, things were disposed without
the observations of the people, who were thus fed
with proviiions amassed by means very natural.
·Though the· Galileans wished to proclaim Christ
.king, he did not think proper ·to accept an honour
which he found himself for the present incapable of .
supporting. His exhausted provisiona did not suffer
him to undertake the frequent entertaining of so many
guests at his own expence; and,. though this conduct
much more than all his other miraclea, would have
gained him the affections of the beggars, idlers, and
vagabonds of .the country, the of his affairs
prevented him from recurring to it.
Thus Jesus crowned the second year of his mission
with an action well adapted to conciliate the love of
the people, and at the same time give uneasiness to
the magistrates. This stroke of eclat must doubtless
have alarmed in power, who perceived that the
affair might very serioua, especially consider-
ing the intt'ntion the Galileans had displayed of ·pro-
claiming our adventurt:r king. - The priests probably
profited by •dispositions in order to deatroy
Digitized byGoogle
•
•
Christ, wh$ at ad times appeared anxious to gaia tbe
populace, on purpose to aid him afterwards in sub-
.duing the great. This project might have aucceed·
ed. if Judea, as in times past, bad been still governed
by of its own who,· as the Bible esta.
-blisbcs, depended continually on the caprice of
of prophets. or of the _
first comer, who by predic-
tions, declamatioust and could, at will, stir
up the Hebrew nation, and dispose of the crown:
whereas in the time of Jesus, the Roman
ment had nothiQg to feat the efforts of super·
stition.
• /
'
Digitize byGoogle . .,
••·il' --- _
___A
_ _ _ __
/
'
201
CHAPTER XIII.
/
.JESUS REPA.SIEI INTO GALILEE ABOU'J THE TI'ME OP THE
THIRD PASSOVER IN HIS MIS!IION .-WHAT HE DID
UNTIL THE TIME HE LEFT I't.
THE expression of, St. J.ohn•, who tells us, that
Jesus, knowi11g the guests he had entertained would
come and take him hvforee on purpuse to make him their
·king, demonstrates that these guesta.had with1lrawn at
the end of the entertainment. This observation ena-
bles us to fix pretty correctly the route of Jesus, and
affords a reason for his· conduct.
It was already late when the said to their
master, that it was time to send away the people. The
preparations for the repast must have consumed time:
the distribution of the v'ctuals requirt'd also some
hours; so that daylight could not have boe'n far off
when the meal was ·finished, and when Jesus dism1ssed
his guests. It was about the evening- he learned the de.
sign they had of carrying him off to make him king;
and it was not until after having received this intelli-
gence, that he touk the resoll!!ion of concealing himself
in a mountain, after having disratched his to
Caperuaum. The latter to reach the place were obliged
to make several tacks; when Jesus, observing this, ·
changed. bis resolution, and set out for.Gennesaret, oa
-.Chap. n. nr. 11.
Digitized byGoogle
,..
the north side of tile lake. Seeing him approach at
the moment they thought him far off in the recesses of
the mountain, his disciples were terrified; theg took
Aim for a spirit, for spirits were very common i_
n
Judea. They were confirmed in their opinion when
tbey his shadow near their ves11el. Simon
Peter ob1erving him advance, did not doubt but be had
seen him walking." on the waters. In attempting to go
and meet hia master, be felt himselfainking; butJesus
took him by the band, and saved him from the danger
in,.w'bich he believed himself to be; and, after repri-
mandinghim for his cowardice, went with him on board
the ship. The apostles, who bad much struck
' with the miracle of the five loaves, were very much
astonished at thw. Th.ey had been in great fear, and
fear disposes to believe ; in their distress they confess-
ed unanimoualy, that he rt1a1 trulg the Son of God.
Jesus reached Genoesaret at noon. There several of
his guests recognized him, and did not to an-
nounce his arrival to others. They presented. him the
diseased, and be performed a great number of cures.
We cannot too much admire the faith of the Galileans,
who exppsed at all seasons their sick in tlie streets, and
the complaisance of Jesus, who indefatigably cured
them!
The guesta at the miraculous supper two days be-
fore, whom their affairs called home, had returned;
but the greatest number, that is, all the labouring peo-
ple, having seen Jesus• ship take the direction·of Ca-
pemaum, had set out by land for that city. Some ves-
sels from Tiberiaa arrived there at the same time, but
none carried and nobody had seen him ; for he
bad made his during night. The crowd bow·
.·
Digitized byGoogle
tarried still, in i10pes 'Of. 'heing· again entertained·
grati&, when they learned at Capernaum that· Christ
was on tbe opposite ·shore. Immedia_tely all our ·ldle·
folks set. out, either by land or by water, on purpbse be:
Yisit him•. ·
But these parasites, insteatl of finding a repast served
dut on the grass were entertained with a sermon. Jesusr
who had not always wherewith to defmy the exptmees
of so :numerous a court, held forth to them· thi.s lan-
guage: "VerHy, verily, I say ·unto you, ye seek me;
not ·because you saw the miracles, but because ye did
eat of the loaves, and were filled.-Labour.," added he
u· for life e\·erlasting,__:.;_" His hearers, whos.e ideas
extended not beyond the'}>resent life, did not compre..
bend what Jesus mean't ;· they therefore asked him
wtmt it was requisite they should do; on which he
them to .understand, that it was they.
should become his disciples; as he was the Mes....-
aiah. · Here we are qnite surprisE:<! to find them aelf•l
ing of .Jesu&, · " Wbat sign shtreest thou then that ·fH'.
fTUl!J belit1ie'I What extraordinary thing do you perform:
for that purpose?-You will perh!lp8. instance
supper you gave us, but did not our fathers eat manna
ira the d.esCJrtjorjQrl!J!JII:Ir•.' and after..all., what iSJyou
supper .in comparison with·tbat wonder?'' · , t ...iil:• .·
From this we may perceive;' that Jesus st_rcw'e in
to draw 9Ver these Galileans to his party•. The conti-:
nuat1on or' the JI)iraculous. repast Wl\8 'of:
J¥1pving ·Jesus..to·qQ ·that·
the;bread;; with :Moses bad fed .their. t'Mllei.,.
tvai not the bread of heaven,· which ·alone.·
... J ' ! (• '! ' I I ·'•
.. 1 0,,. :!. _
Eli:
by Coogle
•
/
JerW .J• tPJII!J. II() t\ley
bim to
4eJl. "Well," 'they in 1' give
$is wbicb it
to us what kind of bread we eat' but ..,fJ.D)
)Ja,v.e. Promia:e to ruro1jp ua w•tb it at a» a,1d
thit price we sball. l)e at yq¥o\' .de:vAtio.n,"
. l$ if o.t '!Jis. r,nom,eot ba4 poe.-
tbe 11.8,0Je.. M lJa
\>ten at liuie to {Arq1 •· ..
1Mbicb tbe and aE$Uf81\ctl hi\Vll)g food Wi\il•
out toil would La,ore. soon. lP.CfQa,_e<;\ ; bu.t all
These oD'ered thema_elvea to bim. prOJidiPi. be
would alweya them
tion wa.11 urgent, and goJ 191 with so bad
that hUt:<1it¥:iplea tbemlldvea \Yete.ltboclfted at it, .lilff
11id. to them. u'tbat bimeelf tbl\t:bia,fMtb,
w mot, .&A41. b.is blQod w,io., ; aod that to ge•·t.o.
heilven, it w• oeceeeary to eat,tbie bread and m.tm;,
and drink tbi". eent. f1om tb.&
it up, awat} COfld•
to.everlaat.illg baqqueta•:• Our·tlull folka ..
. • c1oetdne ot·• BudlaJM II, 1Qli01l· ......
limUar pauagee of tile Ntnr .Tei!MieDt. ......
•..
IJl(lllt intq, tho llpirit. of tlaJ. reU,iou, Dqt.'
the dark myateriee COIDDlOD to
llare invehted · 8tiJl darker and' more astonishing, whiclJ
the)' clenominate At die all-powedW
ti ai piieet. die OocJ., (tf tbe Uahlene it. '-ceil ..._.
... - qbitaliqo . ..... ,sor, 8Jld
teJC into .a piece of bleed. Thia .breed is afterwards we.
lhipped bJ:a people who bout their deteltatiao·ol idGiatrJI
.AriiUd • thia doctriDe .., ...a.: pecuJilr • c.bdlniau,
•
Digitized byGoogle
.M Hone of this mysteriouajal'gnn, ·coutrited on pUr•
pose to putzle them. Perceiving that were notr
moved by it, he informed them, that in order to
.him, a particular call neeessary, and tb1lt u
were hot to db this, they were, therefore, not·
called•. .. ·
tlor does it appear to. have with Christ. lrl ln.
doltlm, :Breiua tlatribute a kind ef grain .in their Pa,po
dM; thit dlstrlbution is called PraJad4m or '11»
MHicaua believe in a of traD..ubatantiation, whlch Ill
mentioned by father .Acosta in his Traveli, 24. '11*
.l:'rotestants have had to reject
'don, · thdugh It 14 tbtfnaiJt ·by thdtt, who .,.,
., Ne, ect; t!rU ·u·m!J '.11le f!auvilm8 a
Plus Ja. 1VIdeb, after ,llbffldr.tg a lamb,.
tningie bia. blood with fieur, and diltrlbute it amongst the
. . : '. . . \
people-.dnetanaeque.rt. lib. 2. cap. 20. '
." We lilltnnet rdD too in ert1er to a.po.e ahari
Utrines of grace ancl ptedeltinatioa heJd by Christimt..
An intelligent writer, whom fwe have already quoted..
We scarcely finll any traits Of the Si.tptetn'
in the fundame•tllts Of ili1& reJfgion, but wtiat st.n1fiiM'
'impress us Mth notiotJs JIU\tvmive « h¥ Jitdrfl1 amlb'IIIIM.
If tte mlalrR ·a ., urnrorthy of 4 jW!t anA
••l!fice•t nJfeioR wil tell Ul that God ill tile
of his own gifts; that he owes us nothinr : that we are hilt
Wormt of. thf .eartJ.; who have no ·right to- scrutinize his
actiona; .and that t9 marmur or c:Ompwn, is to incUr lila
It . is to discover the weakness
"' IUcA 1'811101lq. Power, I do COntend, can never
the rfPt to .ioiate jUitiee. A a0vere1gn who pi.mislies and.
fllY reaard to merit and demerlt, in both
.-. iuela. .)mputation bia)ne : hiS subjects may, -
irlllead,. ;fiatttr and lear him, but .'Qever can siricereiy love
lbd ._.ct ium. Ji be be .de'eined. a A
t subject of praise, it
ftD only 1M! by thole who ha.ve the goo-a Jorti.ine to be
alecttd aa th, obiecta. o( .IDa If it be tNe, fhat.in
• E
Digitized byGoogle
I
The adherents Jesus pr.ocnred on this· occasion wete
bUt iew. The Jews·, on the other band, were indignant
that beshould pretend to have'descended from heaven.
We knOf», said they, liis father and molher, and we
kno(ll ri'Ai!re he was born. All these rumours, spread-
ing as far as .Jerusalem, so irritated the priests, that
they on his death; but the Son ofGod eluded
their' parsuits and designs by skilful marches and
countermarches, which disconcerted their vigilance.
lt was especially in the capital that they wished to en-
snare him; but Jesus had not been there at the last
His distance from the metropolis did not
prevent them from knowing his most secret proceed-
ings; and· from this he concluded there were some
false brethren in the number of his disciples. He
not deceived: but the fear of' being betrayed
in - a country where· his resources began to fail.
through his refusal lo give the people bread, in·
'duced hiJn to dit;semble till heshould arrive in a place
of He set out therefore on his journey home-
ward to C!lpernauin. At this place he recited nearly
the same sermon be had in·vain preached to the Gali-
leans. No one, however, would consent to receive for
food his flesh and blood. Those who enjoyed his con-
relation to God we are but as wonns of·the earth, or that in
IUs hands we are as a vessel in the hands of a potter, then
must it follow that there is no moral relation between the
. creature and his. Creator. Seclng, therefore, that a wonn
of the earth owes to man who crushes him nothing, and that
the vessel ' can have no obligation to the potter who fonns it,
and supposing that man is but awonn, or a brittle 'vessel. in
the estimation of his Maker, then must he be alike incapable
to honour or ofljend bim:...hente I coaclude that religion is
useleu... · ·
o,gitized by Coogle
fideoce, ko$w very well that.he gave.better cheer;
but his otlier disciples asserted, t"at they. could
subsist on this mysterious and took their leave._of
him•. Unable to do better, .Christ was 9blige.Q to
·suffer theiJl to depart.
Jesus -observing the defection of_a part of his fol·
lowers, was nxed at it; and in sorrow for the hJtrm it
would occasion, asked the twelye," And willyou,also
leaye me? On w.hicb Simon Peter answered, " Lord,
to whom shall we go? thou bast the words of eternal
life. And we believe, and are sure, that thou art the
Christ, the Son of the living God." ThusJeaus was
assured, in the best way be could, of the of his
apostles ;-yet we see, that in spite of his infinite
knowledge, be 1
kept the traitor Judas iil
company, though he must have foreseen that he would
deliver him up to hi& enemies.
Meanwhile Christdepurted on purpose to return into
.Galilee, whithfl his apostles followed him, though his ·
last preaching, and·particularly the refusal of victual•,
bad dissatisfied the Galileans. · They did not indeed
give him a very reception• The arrival t)f
some Pharisees and doctors from Jerusalem completely
marred every thing. They were deputed by the chiefs
in the capital to watch the conduct of Jesus, and to
put the people on their guard against him. Every one
knows, bow strictly the Jews adhere to the ceremonies
of their law; and in spite of ,his protestations of at-
tachment to it, Jesus, like his trusty friends, .observed
none of ordinances. It was particularly amiss
that they ate without washing their bands• . But he.de..
'
*St. John, vi. 66,. &c.
o;gitizedbyGoogle
..
'.
' . I
b1tnwelf Witb iiylng, was bt!ttert() 'fi(J.
t'ttditioD'Sand neglect <t"eretnonies, than to·irifriuge
tbe ooftlft\ltftdments of God, ·as the did. He
tai&Ylnted, contrary to expllE!&s law, filM "'tttMng
enttrl the body d{/iles it, and that it i-s url1tit brd Of
it tluJt rentltrt it inaprtte. This seetns to 'e$tabUsh,
tblt Chmt and his party 'Were not &t:ropuloua as to
llimentl. 'fhetell.ftet be l"duncbed-out in ·invec-
tttea:agaiMt the·doetote, whodl he called
ignbrabt and·bfincl,.•bo e!)tiducted others thatwere
blind. Iti his be did not ·pei"Cei'fe·that tbe corn-
plitnetlt 'fV1lS tJOt le11s oft'ehl!iYe to the peoplE! than to _
their guides. On this account the latter pteserved a ·
deep teaehtment, but the popuhtce did notregard it.
Besides, Jesus did not allow tbetn tltne tbr
·be.engaged their attention by a fine discourse, tb _ , _
tbat the lawyel'l and ptiMtB 'ftete the worst o( tnen.
·and the least ebaritable, abd 'that none eonld be hh-ppy,
either in this ,orld or in the ,other, without becoming
lais disciplts. . _
In the mean time he was informed th11t fhere uo
1afetr for him jn this plaee. He . left it In
great hllste,, with an intent ·to go tow11rds the frontiers
of Tyte and Sidon. His design was to live
ill,. lcouse of the co-untr)', whither be had withdrawn;
but with such great rt!nown as that of out hero. it was
'dilBcult to continue unknown. Tbe secret of his
retreat was divulged; attd. misfortune
turns to gQod, this tritlitJg duplicity procured
advantage of performing a miracle an'long the
A.woman Canaan came, and besooght him to dell.
her daughter from a devil \hat tormented her.
at first matte M aes'Wer. Sbe· insisted-the-
Digitized byGoogle
•·
-. presse4 their ••• gnu
on tQ,silenee·
ber; f'Dr·.&he
ciQdroualy, and migbt ba.ve 4isclosed.tlha$ he
Wllfl ae defended himself a.. tbe plea of
.• senHo t9 the Heatba,
IJgJin besought him, 8ft8Wered,&is.
parison by another.-He .at length yielded1
;, and.t.Jte
3-il!l was ddivered frQm her deiv.il 01 1\er 'Vapour&...
.•Tbe .•uQeeea oi Jeaue in .tbia
w.itb thia mimllle. pa.8Md irom tbonce into :0.
and ·there acquired 1001e coiosequence fJ!'OIQ
t\te cUIJe o£,a duut.b.aa'ddeaf man, OG
word:.Bphtta, ·aad tben putting his·fiager ioto.t.is.ea111
Mdt on his It tlaeN{we, appeal
tlilat our.misiriooary. made a abundaat ha.-
vest aoi.altile. He. moreo"tel! wrought number
of·miracles on the the cripple aqdrtbe.maime4.
But it was cuatom. miraculoua
to make a noi.te; b&. a.cao»eiiilgly. with•
drew to.a mountain at tbe distaiU;e·of tlar.ee·d)lyiJour.:.
JteYifrom tqe .pliU:e.where be petfermed:ao.m&DJI
'lrbe· people in -. ero.wd follqwed bim. iJa;
an<\ iUppears that tbey did so.
iog. aut at,tbistljme; loaded with proriliou
. or money procured by tia,miraclelf again saw: ..
.iJI .a.aituatlion. to iay tile table..cloib. As.if lae
.DPtbing ofi thls, he ask«Kl oae of bi&aponfes.bow mao,_,
· loayes tbey- Sewn •••··the answer:. He tlaeD.
&Gei-ed the milbitude·to.tifldownoiltbe 8f08nd; and.
t811;i»g the, lO&ves; blessed'them, tegether With 10108-
smaHlillie&-These were distributed:to fout tbousaod;
Digitized by_
Google
/
I
210
men, besides women and cbilpreni wh(> were an sati&o-
fied; and ·with the remains·<'£ the repast, they after•
wards ftlled seven baskets.· This prOdigy appears to·
be a mere repetition of we have related before;
yet St. Chrysostom maintains, that the difference ofthe
number of baskets proves irrefragably they tnust not be-
confounded.
Admittinf this, it would appear, that Jesus, having
ao longer any safe retreat in ·bis own country, sacri·
·aced once more the money and provisions his prodi-
,gies bad him amass. It was nece888ry to
·pin·the people, and he at that time felt be bad -.ery·
great ·need of them ; lie was generous when. be bad the
means to be:so, and he bad not forgot that they bad pro-.
mised to follow him, provided he w.ould give them food.
The evangelists, however, overheated with the idea
of this miracle, forgot another equally deserving their
notice.-+-lt was indeed a prodi,gy to see four thousand.
men, without reckoning women and little children,,
following Jesus during three days without eating or
ch-inking;··or else we .must'believe, that, prepared to.
· travel, these people bad provided tb(lmselves .with pro-.
'ViSions, .wbicb suddenly failed. B11t, ·ia a desart,.
wheace the baskets they made use of in gather-
ing up the remains of the entertainment? It is to be
presumed, that they dropt dowa fr<?m .heaven. But,
.on the other band, why not make loaves and fishes drop.
down alio?: It w.as undoubtedly still requisite, ·by a·
mira..cle. to feed this multitude .during the three
days'.march necenary for their return. ·Yet, through.
•ut the ·whole busiaess._ it would have bee.D a shorter
way to have made the people feel neither hunger nor
thirst. It would have been way, by an ef.
fort of efi'ectualmercyJ tQ 4)JCe,an
Digitized byCoogle
..
2ll
the inhab-
itants of Jqdea, and spared Jesus· the trouble
of so many eutertainments, flights, marches, and coull-
termarch.es, which at ·last tern1inated in a manner
tragica.l to this hero of the roinance. ,
The Pharisees and Sadducees did not lose sight of
Jesus; and on learning that he bad returned to th·e
interior of the kingdom, they went in search of him.
'J'he evangelists, it is suspected, made them _much
worse than they were in reality, by representing them
• as eage'r to ruin them. Was it then so difficult to
arrest thirteen men ? Be lbat as it may, these Phari-
!'ees at this time accosted Jesus very politely, and de-·
manded of him a miracle. " You perform them," said
they,., by in presence of· a thousand people,
' ,who, by your o,n confession, do not believe in you;
_give us then a of your skill, and we.shall be
less opiniative than those of whom you complain. Do
then shew us this condescension." Jesus was inexor-
nhle, 1\nd perpetually referred them to Jonas.
refusal tbem: be, in turn, inveighed against
them; and as the presence of these inconvenient spec-
tators rendered bia power useless, be quitted them in
order to go to Betbsaida.
On tbe way pis apostles asked him the reason of his
refusal to work a miracle ·in presence of persona who
.him io 80 handsome a manner ; ,On which.
Jesus,· by a figure them to understand, that he
could not operate before people so clear-sighted;
fHrt, said be, ofthe lea'HI.I ofthe Pl1ariam, find pfthe
ktl'Dea of Herod. Our silly folks, who had lllll trme
to provide breaq, thought ,their master meant to re-
prove them for tbeir negligence" Ariy otber but Jesus
would ba•e laughed at tbe rpistake, bat atate of
rr
Digitized byGoogle
his affilirs him, and he treated. them very
harshly.• .
On his entering Bethsaida, tney brought him a blind
man whom be ,cured by applying spital to his eyes.
This remedy at first produced a pleasa-
nt effect: the
man sa'v otJter mEm, like trees, walking; Jesus 'then
)aid his bands on him, and immediately he saw quite
'otherwise.t ·
But this miracle conquest. to 'the Messiah.
He, therefore, w·ent to 'try his fortune in 'the villages
In ·the envirdriS ofCtiisarea-Philippi. It is in this jo'Ur-
ney, that asking h'is apostles \vhat'the}' th·ougbtof him,
some said that·be for Elias, oth'ers for Jeremiah,
·&c.; but Peter opehly iba't 'he acknowledged
'liim for the 'Christ:'+ 'a con'fessioil which bas ·since
gained him the honou'r of su'premacy in the coi-
'Iege, lind 'of'beiiig (Jedlared the belld df'tbe·choroh.
Though ·i'n 'heaven, 'Ciirist pos1e-ssed no-
'thing on ana '6f course :co\ild confer no tempo-
:t.il gifts. 'Instead ·tif ·tte ·ga'V'e'his ·disciptes the
·spiritual privilege df 'lfaMni'n'g 'anH saving ·me re8t of
'mlftiklnd at 1
ttieir ;ple'asur'e.'....!.Re'iJrdmised ·fo ·Peter )ihe
place of door-keeper cif ParadiSe, <sinc·e become t!o'Ju.
·crative 'atf ti'fftce to·his'i1Jetessofs;rttld · :Nfdtn-
wbHe·Usus reoorn'nfenaed 'sil'ent!e ,;to ':tlie 'purty on ·this ·
. promotion·; Hut;pelluifis 'tlie' trllit'Or 1udas, not ·
!with 'the office t)f ffea!ufer, diil n'6t ttie'se-
cret. ·
'N'OtMth!ltan'<fltlg t'rie 'tfuft\lhlge 'dr the ·
which .thigbt resb1t tt\'e \Sfltb'e
• .St.. Matt. xvi. .st.·Mark, viii. St.
t St. Mark viii.
St. M•tt. xri. St. ':Malk,'rii. St. Llike;ix•
..
byGoogle
• r
prjeat' •ere alway!! to the mind o( Jesus. ·
aaw himself cried on aU siaes, and
pres1.4Jlled with. good that once exc;:luded
all provinces, and tb.e mucb in- •
elined to ·receive a Jew, expelled his own for
WO\lld be coostrainfd, sooner or later; to
return to where he must expect to meet •
with On the other hand, the
Romans, masters of the'forcfs whom tbe Jews
could arrpgate no authority, would qu,ckly
put end to mission ofa WhQpl they
regarded either a fool or as a disturber of the
ppblic peace, <\""'ed to against
There is indeed, t.o believe that tile
miftoSion qf in merely the
fl.pntans "ot much a restless aod
turblf]ent people lJJllll&e themselves .with follow.
ing a man of h.is rank, a pretended Messiah, to whose
the prepqss_essionll. of the nation gne rise.
Always of beil1g able to those wbo dared
to the bpldest they troubled·
themselves a.bput be done in the
by • pl!.rty np way formid1L!Jle to an au.thority
hy piJ.C,ipline4 Jegions.
SQp o,f God w·us.t alarmed
tbe COQlp;toioJ}' of dull we may
tben;t 1-,q h"r.e it therefore nece$-
sary to contrive means to encourage those at who
,pf v.ait.l . _
H.t: dj,d
.t,Ye ,()f ,t.h,e
· h&9 tQ
ue ablicipate.8 .t.bem..l)jl tJl.U; J.Q4 thl\t
even. if be should sutler deatb, .tbey must not .- dis-
PF2
..
Digitized by GoogI
.e
•'
'
' .
214
couraged, for at .the end of three days .be would ri&e
triumphant from the tomb.-We shall afterwards see
• the use the apostles made ,of this prediction which
must at the time have app.eared to them-as fooliah as
incredible.· ·
·To retain them as his followers, and revive their zeal,,
Christ entertained them incessantly with the beauty of
his Father's kingdom; but he forwamed them,·that to
there, they m'ust have courage, Jove him sincere..
ly, and agree to ·suffer with him. These melancholy
sermons demonstrated the &ituation of the orator, and
te\Jded rather to depress than incite the courage of
,auditory. He, therefore, thought h seasonable to pre.
sent to his.._disciples a specimen '6f the glor:f ·of which
he had so often vaunted. For this ·purpose he exhi·
hited brilliant spectade of the tra,(/lguration. • All
the were not witnesses of it; he granted this
f:vour to three· only, James, and John, his most
intimate confidents, ·to ·whom he recommended silence.
Thts scene took place, it is said, on mount Tbabor.
There Jesus appeared irradiated with glory, acconlpa-
nied with two others, whom the apostles t{)ok for Moses
and Elias, and whom, as far as we can discover, they
had never seen before.• A cloud unexpectedly enva-
, Jopec\ the three luminous bodies; and when they oo
longer beheld any person, a voice was heard pro-
nouncing these word!!, '.Dh.ia is my ,,.btlo'Oed :Son. 'fhe
·•
• .Theopllylact aUures' us, that .. in the trtm.ifipration the
aposttfs recognized Moses and Eliu, not by their visage, which
they had never seen, but by their talk.• We sutpec;t, however, that
the apostles were u well acquablted with the oflloals
and EU. u with their IJWCA. ,
Digitized by GGogle
•
,
---
'-·
. 215 .
disciples. Wefe asleep while the
--a which has occasioned a suspicion,
· that the wbole was only a dream.
The who remained at the foot ofthe moun-
tain, and bad deprived of this spectacle, wishro
to try their spiritual powers on a lunatic, or one pos-
• .sessed: but the devil disregarded their exorcisms. The
father of the disordered person, perceiving their master
descending from the mountain, iinmediately
his son to him;· whom Jesus cured; be then gue a
strong .reprimand to those fumblers; told them that
their want of success was owing to want of faith, M
graiu of which \tas sufficient to 1·emove mountains;
.. he therefore recommended to them fasting and· prayer,
as the surest receipt for expelling certain . demons,
more"r<>bel!ious than others•. . ,
. The people. however. withstood all t,.hese wonders:
the devils, with whom they were possessed, could not
be-expelled by any means which Christ had yet con:-
'trived. Expecting, therefore, to draw over some of
the strangers, whom the solemnities brought always in
great numbers to the capital; he resolTed, on account
of the fea!lt of Tabernacles, secretly to repair thith/r:
Agitated, however, by the mojt misgi-.
Yings, he traversed G;.llilee; . he explained himself
his fears in an- eAigmatica\ arid iwocealed ma&nell_ Ill
his apostles-
, who could not what be said·;
.but who, 'on observing their master grieved, confontled
tbe,fllselvea to his humour. , '"
On arriving at Capernaum, place of his .
residence, the effi.cers charged with collecting the
• 8t. ll.au• St. Mark, ia. St. Luke, iL 17.
, ,
!16
toms, took him for a and did uot even
niee Matthew their old companion; they a.ccordingly
exacted the custom or tribute; Je•us being a Jew was
offended at tbeir demand; but they did I)Ot
hearken to his reason&, or that be did not wish to be
known, be dispatched Peter iu search of a piece o(
thirty-pence .in the mouth of a fjsb; or tatber desired
him 'go and catch a f.ish,' which beil,tg sold for tbat
sum,· served to pay the custom.
The apostles, having uoder5tood from the Saviour•s
diacourse.s, that his kingdom was still very
amused with dispqtipg ou the pre-eminence
and ranks they should enjoy io the which had
been obscurely announced to them. In this they have ...
been since faithfully imitated by·their st,tccessors•. In
I
• The dilputes between Cbrm,ilm priests laave alwily!l lleeD
acenes of animosity, hatred, and heresy. We find thete to
have uisted since the infancy of the church. A reliBion
founded on wonders, fables, and obscure oracles could only
be a fruitful aouree of quapeJs. Pries,ts atteaded to ridicU-
loUs ioctrinet, in.wad ·of 'UIIe4U when .th4y
IIWuld have studied true moraJ,i.ty, an(! their
real duties, they only strove to g;ain adhetents. They
themselves. in useless speculations on . a barbarous enig-
matical science, which, under the pompous· title of the scieaee
Gl God, ar theology, exeited in .clle vulgar a revel'elltial awe.
'l'iey imerited a hi8oted, .-od abfari
• ia.co!llprebenli'ble 111 Ule goa wllom · they .to wor-
lbip. Hence arpse on diwutes concerning puerile
IUbtilties, odious questions, and arbitrary opinions, which,
r.z. ·from being uae(u], only tended to poison the peace of
IOCiety. In these' contentions we regret to find the MOat pro-
hnd geniuses occupied, and are &rceG. to eeDJUre tbe pi'ell-
tltution of talents worthy a better cause. The people, ever
(oai of tiKo .qwiMla' .d.ey· .could not
Digitized byGoogle
\
917
the mean timeJe11u11 tdok ocx:nion from thia dispute to
deliver a sermon on hun1ility. He called for a cbild,
placed it in the midst of them, ancl declared, that tb.ia
cltild wall the great-est among them. Th·is sermon, by
which ou·r clergy have 'Profited so well, contains fiae
-parables, -t'rld out excellent 'means whereby ·to
1lttain hea'Ye'n, but ·not to thrive on earth. As al4 tbel.,
ho'Wever, only repeti'tians of what is taught intbe
!e'J'mon on the mount, we refer the 'reader to.it.
Jesoa wrought no 'ftliracles during :his .at
' Capen-aaum, •here be had an fiOt to be ·tee
much '8poken df. brethren ·or his .parents, who .+1:
tieerns·We're Of <tbe 'SilWie 1nind • the priests, repaired
'to drat place ·on perstrdde bim to lea<Ve ·hil
«sylum go into Judea, where he might exbtbitJlhia
Skjll. · 'f'bey Tetninded 'hi'm that the reast •should d,_-
bim to Jerusalem, 'Where ·be ·could not fail to •fi&d ...
Gpportunity of signalising himself.• ·
This· lotte led Jeaus to 'that tbe;v
were plotting against him. ' Here E1ternal truth extri·
understand. ,Princes undertook the defence of thoee priestl they
.-ed to favoUr, and orthodoxy decided by the longest swora.
Thia 8111iatance the church never hesitated to receJve in times fl
danger;· for on, tuch occuions the clergy rely rather on hu11181l
thaD on tlle promise of God, who declared that the
ICeptre of the wicked should not rest upon the Jot ofthe dghteoua.
The heroes found in the annals of the church, have been obetinate
fanatica, factious rebel1, or furiO!JS persecutors; they were mODBterl
ofmadness, aedition, and cruelty. The world, in the days of our
aocestora, W88 depopulated in the defence of extravagancies whidlt
escitea l.au8flter in a posteritJ, not iadeed milCh wiser than they
u,.Nilet/.
• St. Jelm, rii.
Digitized byGoogle
lo
218'
-
·c.'lted·it&elf from these importuniti'es by means of false-
hood. Tbe Son of God told h!s brethren to go to tbe
ienst, but assured them that for himself he would not .
go,• however, did not hinder him from taking
the road to Jerusalem, but with the greatest secresy.
111 his way he cured teo lepers, among whom one only;·
who was a Samaritan, shewed any gratitude to .his
physician: and from cobrtesy to his faith his sios were.
remitted.t . Notwithstanding 'this miracle and
tioo, the incredul9us do not fine\, tba. can be
acquitted of having prevaricated. It seems very
strange that the Son ofGod. to whom his omnipotence
furnished many means of acting openly,
bad recourse to subtilty and' deception in order to
.elude the snares of his enemies. This conduct ,can· be
uplained only by admitting, that what seems
to carnal eyes is truth in the gospel.
. I
.... .
oigitiz-edbyGoo le
'
\
219
CHAPTER XIV.
..
.IUtJS SRBWS HIMSELF AT JBRUU.LEM.-RE IS FORCED TO
loBAVE IT.--RESUIUtECTION OF LAZARUS.-TRIUMPBANT
ENTRY OF CBIUf'r.-BIS RETREAT TO TBB GARDEl\
OF OLIVES.-TBE LORD'S SU_
PPEa...:...
BE IS A.RRESTBi.
_IT is proba_ble that our hero'changed his intention .
• of showing himself pQblicly at Jerusalem on learning
.the :diversity of opinions divided the capital on
-his account•. He imagined that his presence and dis·
courses would remedy the inconstancy of the peCi>ple,
and remove the perplexity of dieputants; but he de·
ceived himself. He who so often the
tunning of 1erpent1,: failed on this occasion. But bow
-revoke an immutable decree? The world had been
created solely on purpose that man might sin, and mao
bad sinned in order that Christ by his"death might ha-fe
the glory of making atonement for the sinner.
_ ·If they spoke much evif of Jesus in Jerusalem, they
spoke also much good. Praise is a snare, wherein the
Son of God himself was caught. .Flattering himself
with being able to reconcile the 'suffrages, be went to
the t;emple and preached. But what must have been
• JO!m, vii. n. &e.
GG
' I
Digitized byGoogle
\
his surprise, when on beginning to speak he heard the
cries of rage, and the multitude aceusing him of being
possessed with a devil. In spite of the confused noise
that reigned among the audience, Jesus continued to
harangue. Perhaps. ind£ed, he might have succeeded
in conquering the bad disposition of the assembly, if
-a company of archers had not arrived, and interrupted
him precisely in the wannest part of his sermon. He
was speaking of his heavenly Father, and this occur-
rence has, made us·lose a sublime treati.e
on the nature of the Divinity•. These archers, how-
• This clrcmnstance, ltoweTer, neea aearoely be regretted,
for the ancient fathel'8- h$e furniahed .us with many .
and edifying works . ori this, subject. Tertullian has poli-
tirely said, that God is a body. In the council of Elvira it
is fOrbidden to light wax candles in church-yards, for fear of
the soulf of the saint1. In the fourth century 'J>iriivaliiY
was not ·. yet decreed : there will! a great dispute between
the monks of Egypt about GO!l, in order to ascertaia whether
was corporeal or incorporeal. M. de Beaueobre, in hie
Hilt. i.e Manicheil'flte, tollle 1. p. 201, shews, .that among
the first Christian doctol'8, each formed ideu of God and the
aoul conformable to the philosophic sect in which he had
educated. A Platonist made God incorporeal; a Py.. .
thagorean made him an intelligeftt fin, a light endowed with
intelligence an Epicurean made him 8 fi'UJUrial being, till
a1tilftal immortal and very happy. Many doctors revered by
the church would now-a-days endanger themselvea were they
not quickly to retract their errom MDSes himsell woUld
be burned .by the inquisition for being both 8 :Jew and a
u;;aterialist. Enm few Christians have 11ritten on the e:!l8tenci
of God, without drawing- on themeelves ail of atheiliD.
De9CIU"teii, Clarke, Pascal, Arnauld, aDd Nicole, liaN
been coosidered aa Atheists. The .reaaen it piain : - It
is bapossible to prove the existence ot a Being' 80 in-
consistent as the Gocl of tlt.e, , We lhall be tpld
.., Digitized by Coogle
fil
ever, bad no design to seize him: they wi8bed only·to
impose silence on him; it was therefore easy for him
I
to steal away.
Jesus, whose temper appears to have been vindictive
and restless, was piqued at, the insult, and continued
his iuvectives against the priests, doctors, and prin-
cipal men among the Jews, who taking on
the subject, they agreed to fulminate a decree against
him, and try him fur contumacy; but Nicodemue,
whom we mel_ltioned before, undertook. his deleJ)ce,
and proposed to his brethren to go and hear biru be-
-fore coridemnin·g him. They, however, insisted that
no good ever came out of Nazareth, i. e. that his pro-
tege coold be only a vagabond.
In his retreat on the mount of Olives, Jesus learned
that they had delayed his trial. He therefo-re appeared
·next day in the temple by day-break. The doctors and
senators came a little later, and brought. him a fe.male
accuaed of adultery-a crime for which, according to
the law, she ought to suffel' cteath. The doctors, per-
haps acquainted with her condtlct, and informed of
Christ's drawing aftt:r him of wicked lives,
wanted to ensnare him. He might have got off by
merely saying, that it was not for him to judge; but
he wished to argue. He wrote on the ground ; and
concluded very prudently, that for one to judge it is
that men have no meanl of judging of the Divinity, and that
0\11' understandings are too narrow to fonn any idea of him.
Why then do they dispute incessantly concerning him ? Why
asslgn to him qualities which destroy each other ? . Why re-
count fables ofhiin ? Why quarrel, and cut each others' throats
beeaU&e these fables are differently interpreted by different persQDs
ead bJ dilferent naQoos ?
.G G 'l
Digitized byGoogle
•
...
necessary to be himself exempted from all sin. Then
addressing himself to the doctors, " let him among
you who is without sin, cast the first atone at her."
A€these words they departed, shrugging their should-
ers. Jesus remained alone with the adultress, whom
the Jews would have treated so tenderly if she.had
been really culpable : on this he said to her, " Since
no man ·hath accused thee, neither will I condemn
thee : Go then, and sin no more."
Having- happily escaped from this dangel') Jesus
thought himself in safety: but, induced by his natural
petulance, he again hazarded a. sermon in the temple;
he spoke only of himself; and what follows was nearly
his strongest argument. ... You ask_." said he, " a full
proof by two witnesses. Now I bear witness of my
Father, and my Father witness of me;, you
therefore ought to 9elieve in me:" which amounts to
this-my Father pro'Dtl me, and l prove my Father.
The doctors were bu.t little surprised with this cir-
cuitous and reasoning, and with a view to
come directly to the point, " \Vho art tbou ?" "·I.
am,'' re,lied Jesus, '• from the beginning, and I have
ri1any things to say to you; but I speak to the world
those thif18B only which I bave heard of my Father...
The audience were no doubt impatient at these ambi-
guous answers. Jesus, who wanted to augment their
embarrassment, then added, that they would know
him much better after they had put him to death.
The Messiah did not omit to diaplay great views in
this conference; he informed his hearers in dark lan-
guage, that it would not perha.ps be impossible to
shake off the .Roman yoke. But either through fear
Ofchastisement, or that they did not 6elieye 'such a
Digitized byGoogle
.'·
mao in a condition to effect so great a revolution, they
affected not to comprehend him. Piqued at finding
the doctors and Pharisees dull and opiniative, he
called them\children cif the devil; he affirmed that he
' was older than .J.braham. In short, .he broke out in a
manner so unreasonable that the people, declaring
against him, were about to stone him,. Jesus, perceiving
his folly when too late, conct'aled himself at first, and
. thereafter an opportunity to escape.
From this time his miracles became more rare, and
the zeal of the people subsided. It was therefore ne-
' cessary to rekindle it: Je!us accordingly a
miracle by curing a man born blind; with a little earth
moistened with spittle. This man was a well known
mendicant, whom could not suspect of any arti-
fice. Yet _they would no longer tolerate him after be
bad received his sight; an incident which no doubt. -
diminished the alms he w.as in use to receive ; but per-
haps'be was made a disciple; and indeed some legends
assert that, after the death of Jesus; he came iuto Gaul,
where he became a bishop or inspector, which at least
presupposes gOod organs of visiOn. '
Be that as it may, the prodigy made a noise and
·came to the knowledge of the Pharisees. The beggar
underwent au examination; he openly confessed that
one called Jesus had cured him with a clay of his com-
·po&ition and some bathings in Siloam. It must, how-
ever, be acknowledged that the bad .humour of the
P.barisees went a little too far on this occasion. They
·made it a crime for the physician to have composed his
ointment on the Sabbath, and forrned tht; .project of
excommunicating whoever should countenance our
physician.
Digitized byGoogle
This ·resolution made Jesus tremble. He knew the
power of excommuoi<?ation among the Jews ; he found
crossed in all his designs ; and dared not ven-
to preach in Jerusalem, or shew himself in any
other place; every thiug, even his miracles, turned
against him. It was not even without some difficulty
that he baQ escaped from the capital. At a little dis-
tance he kne!Y' of an asylum and society in Bethany,
where his friend Lazarus possessed a bouse. He ac-
c:ordingly took the of retiring thither; but
though it was a lArge house, the party that
Died him might have incommoded their host. This
determined Jesus to send seventy of his disciples on a
mission to Judea, to whom it appears be now gave
very ample powers; for on their return we find them
applauding themselves, and overjoyed, at the
with which they expelled the devils.
- Scarcely had Christ arrived at Bethany, when, in
order to receive him in a becoming manner, they .pre·
pared a banquet. But the voluptuous Magdalane, con-
tent to devour with her eyes her dear Saviour•, left
• Jesus, it is said by some writers, was fftr!1 hemdi.fol,
wbich naturally accounts for the Magdalane's . attach·
· ment to him. We have a small tract, in Latin, on tAt beau,,y
'!.f Chrilt, composed by a Minime named Pijaret, and printed
UDder the title of Dt si"'fU/ari Iem Chr·uti D. N.
pvlcAritudine, in 12mo. Paris, 1651. In the supposititioUJ
Jetter of Lentulus addressed to the Roman senate, will be
found an exact of the person of ,Jesus. C«lMr
Apocryph. N. T. tome 11 p. 801.-Qthers, however, have
· maintained, that Jesus, to shew bis humility, assumed a Vtr'J
visage. It would really be gratifying, if some clergy-
eum or layman of the present day would point out one particular
u to the life, character,· or person of the Messiah,. iJt which all (It
even om, two ofhie historians agree. · ·
..
Digitized byGoogle
'
2i5
Martha, her sister, to superintend the arrangements
in the kitchen, while she herself continued at his feet.
Peevishness, and perhaps jealousy, got the better of
Martna; she came and scolded Magdalene, but the
tender Messiah undertook the defence of his penitent,
and asserted that she had chosen the better part; bro.
ther Lazarus, who came in unexpectedly, terminated
the squabble by ordering them to thl'!ir work•.
This little altercation, however, was the cause why
Jesus did not tarry long at Bethany.-When about
leaving it, a Pharisee, through pure curiosity, invited
him to dinner. The Messiah accepted his invitation;
but our unpolished Jew had not the civility to give his
guest water to wash with. This occasioned him a fine
lecture on charity, filled with marvellous comparisons,
which, however., we shall pa!!s over in silence_, as OUT ·
orator so frequently conned over the saine lesson;and
as this dinner appears to be a repetition of one we have
already mentioned.
From this period, till the feast of the dedication of
the temple, our hero wandered in the environs ofJeru•
salem, along with his disciples, whom he incessantly
entertained with the grandeur of his mrial kingdoM,
and what it was necessary to do in order to enter it.
It was, according St. Luke, on 'tbis occasion, and
according to St. Matthew, in the sermon on the mount,
that he •ugbt the apostles, who could not read, a
•bort prayer, called, since that time, the Lord's prayer,
which (injurious as· it is to the whom it
Jeetns to accuse of leading us into temptation), chris..
tiana still continue to repeat.
• $t. Luke, x. ancl xi.
Digitized by·Google
' .
, (
Meanwhile time run on without any advantage.
The cessation of prodigies and preaching occasioned
that of alms. Jesus again hazarded. a sermon in a vil-
lage; but although it attracted the admiration of the ·
people, who asked nothing better than to admire, it
produced·nQ effect. Towards the end of Christ's mis-
•ion we no longer see the crowd running after him.-:-If
. he wished to perform a mir;lcle, he was under the ne-
cessity of calling those be wished to cure. For eighteen
years an old woman oftbis village had been quite bent;
it was, according to the language of the country, the
devil, who -bad kept her in this inconvenient posture.
Jesus called bet and exclaimed: " Woman, thou art·
loosed from thine infirm_
ity•." The old woman made
efforts to become straight; she approached the feet of
•the Messiah with the pace ofa tortoise; he laid his hand
on her, and immediately she walked' upright like a
wench of.fifteen. At this time the devil spoke not a
word on his departure; on which it has been remarked
that Satan followed always the opinion of the speeta-
tors of tbe Saviour's miracles, and marvellously coin-
cided with them in acknowledging or rejecting Christ. .
This analogous conduct or the spectators -and Satan,
was, perhaps, the result of tbe excommunication fulmi-
nated against all. who regarded Jesus as the Messiah.
The reputation of John Baptist subsisted still on the
banks pf the Jordan. .To excite the primitive zeal, or
perhaps with an intent to induce the disciples of John,
whQ,bad borne him such flattering testimony, to follow
him, Jesus turned towards that quarter; but the at-
tempt was fruitless. He succeeded no better in curing
I
'
• St. Lllkt:. :lui. 11. .
' ,
byGoogle.
a dropsical person that chanced to be in the bouse of
a Pharisee who gave the Saviour·a dinner. His eures
were admired, but he spoiled all by his extravaga'nt
arguments, so offensive were they to the greatest part
of his hearers. As a Iaiit resource he essayed to attach
to himself publicans, officers, and such like 'disreputa- ·
ble but these were only feeble props, and .
their familiarity made him Jose the little esteem which
others still entertained for him.•
The sight of punishment has' often occasioned the
loss of courage even'" to the most determint:d hero.
Ours, agitated by a crowd ofuntoward events, imagined
, that nothing being. dearer to men than and nothing
• more difficult than to come back'8fter leaving it, the
people of Jerusalem notwithstanding the clamours of
the priests would not fail to declare in his favour if he
could succeed in making them believe that he had the
power of raising the dead. Lazarus the intimate friend
of Jesus, appeared to him the fittest person in the
world for presenting to the public the spectacle of a
dead man brought again to life. When every thing
was properly concerted and disposed, Christ set out
for Bethany. Learning this, Martha and Magdalane
(ent to meet him, and publicly inforrrieil him that their
brother was very sick. Jesus made them no answer,
but speaking aloud so as to be heard," This sickness,"
said be, 11 is pot death, but for the of God."·
-This was already telling too much.
Instead of going to Betbany or any where else,
Christ remained two days in a village without doing any
• St. Mark, x. St. Luke :diL U'.
H H
•
Digitized byGoogle
thing; thereafter he told his apostlt-s that it was ne·
cessary to return into Jud.ea. He was already there
at the time he spoke, but he no doubt to .SJJeak
of the capital. They represea;ted that it would be a
very imprudent journt>y, as a short time bet<>re the
populace wanted to stone him. \V see that Jesus
aaid this on purpose to give room to his ;friends to in-
vite him not to neglect brother Lazarua in his sickness.
Besides the following words evince that he had no in--
tention of going to Jerusaleat. triend L11zarus
lletpeth ; hut I go tiat I may aaalte !aim out of sletp.
-On hearing the apostles thought he had reco-
vered. Jesus declared to· them that lie aas dead, .and
tbat he W88 highly pleased with hi11 not having been
present at Lazarus's decease, ns ·it would aflord means
to coufirm them in. the fuith.
The two daye which Jesus passed in the village, _
joined to the long spnce of tiA1e be took in goingta-bou*
half a league, were immediately converted into foul'
days from the tiane he pretended Lazarus was dead.
- At last he arrived at the abode of the defunct, whom
they hau deposited in a vault adjoioi-.lg to his bouse,
lnd not according to the custom of those days, in a
tepulchre oot of the city. After·aome questions put
to Martha on her belief, he assured her, that her br6·
tber .would rise again. Yes, said she, llut il will he at ·
the laat dag. Here our Thaumaturge affected to be
very sensibly. tou<:hcd; he trembled, be wept•, in-
• At Vendome, in the monastery of the Holy Trinity, ia
preserved the MJ.Cred tear which Jesbs shed while lamenting
bi8 friend Lazarus. l\1. de Thiers, a Frenchman, having bad
the re110lution to write againtt the authentidty ofthis relic, got into
a «!an&erous scrape with the Benedictines.
..
•
voiced the aid of heaven, caused himself to be hrnught
to the vault, made it he opened, c:alled on Lazarus wtth
a loud and commanded him to come forth. The
·dead man, tied and wrapped up in llis grave
clothes, arose and was unloosed before witnesses at the
entrance of the vault._
It must be that this prodigy watr
conducted with very little dexterity. John, the ·
only Evangelist who rdates this striking miracle, in
vain props his relation with the of the Jews:
he dPstroys his work by not making them. come
till after the death of Lazarus to console his sisters.
It .was necessary that the Jewt should hav,e se(m him
die, dead, and embalmed; that they should have_felt the
•meJl df his corruptlOn; anO that they should have con•
v.ersed with him after his coming outof the tJmb•. Uo·
believers, who have treated on miracles, have exhausted
all the oarts of criticism on this one. To investigate
it would be only.repeatiqg what they have said. 'l"'he
Jews found in it such strong ma'rks of knavery, that
far from being they took more serious mea-
sures against Jesus, who hnving, intimation thereof
withdrew towards the desart to a city called Epkrtm,
where he abode with his disciples. In the time
the cities and villages were enjoirred to refuse him an
a.sylum, and the iuhabitants to deliver him up to the
magistrate£!. . In fact, this miracle occasioned a general
pro!!cription of the Messiah. On presenting himself
.at the gates of a town in Samaria, they at first refused
to let him pa88; he was not permitted to stop at Jeri-
cho. thou11:h he t\tere gave sight to a blind mant. He
• St. John, xi. .
t St. Matthew says, (n. 29, &c.) that JeSus'gave sight to two
bliDd men.
H H 2
Digitized byGoogle
'
230
therefore returned to Bethany, where he was received,
not by Lazarus who had perhaps been obliged to save
bimsdi. on account of his being concerned in such an
imposture, but, as St. Matthew affirms, by Simon the
leper. Lazarus after l!is resurrection _
appeared no
longer on the stage•.
'I hi11 rejection and desertion of Christ threw the
apostles into consternation. To re-animate their con-
fid<"nce, Jesus causf'd a .fig-tree to· die in twenty-four
hours to punish it for not producing figs at a season
when it wns physically impossible for it to carry any,
that 18 ahout the month 9t' Marcht.-As all the actions
of the Messiah, even when they appear fo.olish to or-
dinary men, have an important signification in the eyes
of devotees illulninated by faith, we ought to perceive
in miracle of this·fig-tree one of the fundamental
dogmas of the Christian religion symholically repre-
sentt-d. In this point of the fig-tree cursed is the
•uess of mankind, whom, according to our tbeologists,
the God of mt>rcy curses, and condemns to eternal
flames, for having neither had faith nor grace which
they could not possibly acquire of themselves, and
which God !loes not seem to have been willing to give '
them. Thus we shall find that the ridiculous passage
of the fig-tree in the gospel, is intended to typify one ·
of the most profound dogmas of the Christian:religion+.
• A legend, according to Baroniu, affinns that Lazarus weat
afterwards to preach the faith tq the Provenc;als, and WIIB the
first bishop of Marseilles. As for Magdalane, she went to bewail
her sins and the death of her lover in a desart of Provence,
called Ia Sainte Baume (the Holy BB!m.) Martha, 118 every body
knows, lies interred at Tarascon.
t St. Mark, xi. 20.
, t For maintaining the dogma, that this u well as other
preteAded miracles of Chrilt were merely allegorical, the vir-
o,9;,;zed by Gqoglt;
281
Whilst Jesus in this manner instt·ucted his apostles
by figures and ingenious parables, they were labouring
, hard against him at Jerusalem. It appears, that the
was divided on his account. They perhaps
.wish€
d much to punish him, but not to put him' to
death. All were of opinion that he should be arrested
without noise, and that they should consider after·
wards on the punishment to be inflicted on him.· Tbe
most fiery of the priests wished .that he should be seized
in the capital, and assassinated during the hurry of the
festival This establishes that they did 'not consider
themselves certain the people would not interest them-
selves in his behalf. Perhaps they had great reason:
-What a part of the populace did in his favour when
he approached Jerusalem, evinced that it would have
been very dangerous to act openly. In pursuance of
this plan, they secretly promise a reward to whoever
should deliver up Jesus, and we shall soon find one,of
his apostles betray his master for a :very trifling su·m.
There is sufficient reason to that before en-
tering Jerusalem, Jesus caused his approach to be an-
nounced by his friends in that city. His adherents Ia-
.tillous W oolstan so far excited the indignation of the clergy,
that they penecuted bini · even unto 4eath. · Having been a
prisoner 'in' the King's Bench for eighl '!fll&rS, as a punWl-
ment for pUblishing bia "Discourses on the Miracles;" the
Ql08t powerful· interest used for his release proved unavailing,
when opposed to the rancour of the priesthood; till at · laat
he became a martyr to the cause of truth, leaving behind him
a character which . for atrict probity and benevolence cannot
be 11n'p81!8ed, if even · equalled, in the whole Christian church.
Yet we find that the opinions' by Woolstan were tho•
which were atrenuously held by the most celebrated and orthodox
of the a:ncient fatliers.
Digitized
t8t
/
•
, boured to render his entry into the capital somewhat
brilliant•. · A,. for affecting to display modesty
in the midst of his triumph, or unable to do better,
Christ chose for his steed a young asa that had never
been rode on, ':"ll.icb his by his order, had
seized 1vith its mother. In place of a saddle, some of
the diseiples laid their clothes on the batk of the ass•.
The company advanced in: good .order.-The people,
ever fond of a spectacle, ran to see this;. and we may
that if some at this time paid sincere homage
• At Verona are the remains this ass, preaerved in the
belly of an artificial ass. It W8!l the will of Jesus that the
beast he used, should pass the rest of his days in quiet and li·
berty. Weary with having so long gnawed on the pasturelt
of Palestine, the ass resolved to visit foreign countries, and
to undertake a vorage by sea ; he had no Mea of a -8hip;
the waves became 1m00th, and the liquid element u hard as
·crystal. After he had visited the isl4nds of Cyprus, Rhodes,
Candia, Malta, and Sicily, he passed over the Gulph of
Venice, and staid some days in the. place where that famoua
city has since been l!uilt : but feeling the air to be unhealth-
ful, and the p'astnrage bad, among the salt IUld marshy isles,
Martin continued .his voyage, mounted the river Adige dry
shod, and coming up to Verona, he made choice of· that city
for his last · After he bad lived there · some
Ike an ass of estate and quality,' he died to the great griefof
tile confratemity. 8o l&inentable and universal a braying made
the echoes resound tkrough the country, ana uever was 10
eed a melody heard at the funeral of such an lmimal even In
Arcadia itself!. :But they quickly found a way to aBeriate tb8lr
gl'ief; for all the honours imaginable · being rendered to the
·blessed deceased, the devotees of Verona carefully preserved
dle. reliques, and· put them btto the belly of an artifk:W ..
.made for that purpose, where they are kept to · t.bia day,
to the great joy and edifteation of _pious IIOUlt!-Milo1011 cwl
1 7'ravell.
byGoogle
•
288·
to the triumpher, the greatest number laughed at him
and shouted at the ridiculous farce•.
The chief magistrate, ft:aring an uproar. endea-
voured to quiet- the populace, to whom the disciples
.had set the example. He accordingly addressed Jesus
himself, WQO answered that "the StOnes would speak
rather than his friends should be silent."-This seemed
to insinuate an insurrection Ju case they should atte111pt
to employ authority ; and the magistrate understood
very -well that this was not the moment to provokJl
Jesus.
As sood as Christ bad entered Jerusalem, he betook
himself to weeping and predicting iu ruio. The ap..
nouncing of calamities was, ana will ever be, a Mire*
method .to ,excite the atten,tion of the vulgar. Some '
persons of consequence who not the cause of the
riotou.s assemblies of the pe6ple around Jesus,' oa ea-
quiry were answered, It i$ Jesus of Nazareth-it is a
prophet of Galilee. St. Mark us that in tbia
trausaction, decisive in behalf of the Son of God, Jesus
once more gave to the people the pillage of the mer•"'
cbandize exposed to sale in the court beforetbf po(ch
of the templet. This is very credible; it wes iodeed
wiser and 'more neceMary at present than at theformer
period.
Profiting by the tumult,· Jesus cured a great manJ
blind and lame people. Whilst these wonders were
on oue ilide, they. exclaimed Hoeaooah on
the other+. Some besought the author of tbeee
• St. Matt. ui. St. Mark. Ji. St. LW!e, liiL 'ud
John, xii.
"" . t St. Mark, xi. 15. ·
St. Matt. xxi. 14. St. John, D.
•
Digitized by Coogle
234
clamati&us and of this tumult to stop them; but the
Messiah had no longer measures to observe-He per-
ceived it was necessary to gain over the popular en..
thusiasm, and that it would be silly to appease it.
Besides, the uncertainty of success bad throwt\ hnn in-
to distress, which hindered him from seeing or under-
standing any thing. A child, frightened or too much ·
pressed in the crowd, began to cry while· Jesus was
•peaking, "Father, save me from this hour." They
took the child's voice for a voice from heaven. St.
John, moreover, informs us that the disciples bad
passed on the people the famous miracle of Lazarus's
resurrection, which attested by eye witnesses, D)USt
have made a great impression on the astonished vulgar.
They did not entertain a doubt that tbe voice from
heaven which they had heard, was that. of an angel
who bore testimony to Jesus; and the latter profiting
of the occasion, said to them, " This
'V&ice <:arne not because of me, but for your sakes."
He afterwards too\{ occasion from thence to harangue
the people, and announce himself as the Christ; but
be apoiled his sermon by expressions which shewed the
trouble into which his apprehensions had thrown him,
and not knowing bow to dri\W from the circumstance
all the advantage it seemed to promise, he.left the city
&od retired to Bethany where he passed the night with
his disciples. ·
Ia general our hero was subject to low spirits,-
we constantly find in him a mixture of audacity and
pusillanimity. Accustomed to strike his blows in the
country, and among rude and ignorant·people, he did
·not know how to conduct himself in a city, or to suc-
ceed against vigilant and intelligent enemies.
Digitized byGoogle
·ts5.
· 'Ph'us he lost the -fruit of his memorable journey,
which -had been so long before projected. We do not
indeed fiud that after this be returned to Jerusalem,
except to undergo his trial. Mehmcboly apd fear had
deprived him of all presence ofmind, -and his disciples
I
' were urider the necessity of reminding- him that it was
time to celebrate the Pessover. They asked him where·
·he wished them to go and prepare the entertainment :
He bade take the first house they met with, which'
they did. A chamber was ,provided for them where
they '89sembled with their master, who, occupied
witb his sorrowful thoughts, gave them to understand
that this Passover would likely be tbe.last which he
should celebrate with them.-His langu!lge was
mournful ; he bathed their reet in order to teach them
that humility was essentially necessary when they
weakest. Having afterwards sat down to .be
made them understand in language sufficientlyexJ'licit,
that be was afraid of being betrayed one
There is every reason to believe that his suspicions fell
priticipally on ·Judas, whose frequent going to and
comin;rfrom the houses of the-priests might be kRown
to his As Judas was treasurer 10 the party,
and consequently cha.-ged with paying the. ex'pences
of the entertainment, Jesus wished it to be undet'stood
that they then regaled at the expense of his life
and his blood. " Take," said he to thein in a figura-
. ' .
tive style, " for this is my body.''-Tbereafter he
gave them the cup1 sayingthat it was," his blood which
was to be shed for them.'' 1udas, very readily com- •
prebeoding the meaning of this enigma, arose from
table, and immediately withdrew : but the otber
apostles did not underetand it. lt however, on
'
.l 1
I
' I
emblem that some doctors hue since built the famous
dogma of transub1tuntiation; they enjoin rational
beings to believe, that at the •ord of a priell. bread (1
ehanged i11to tAe realbody, and wine into tAe real blood of
CArist ! They have taken the figurative words of our
missionary literally, lind .have employeu them in form·
ing a mystery, or rather the most curiou11 juggle that
ever has heen devised by priests on purpose to deceive
mank.ind•.
After supper our guests retired with their master to
the mount ofOlives, where they thought themselves
ill safety ; but' our hero did not entertain the same
opinion. Scarcely bad the entered the gar..
den of Olives when a mortal terror seized him;
wept like a child and anticipated the pangs of death.
His apostles-, more tranquil, yielded to sleep, and
Jesus, \Vho. was afrai1 of being surprised, mildly re-
proached them-" Could. you pot," said he, " watcll
with me one hour?" Judas, whom we have seen de-
part and who had not iejoined the party, gave
extreme uneasiness to Christ, and· every moment re-
doubled his terror. It is affirmed that an angel came
to strengthen ip his situation : Yet he was after•
wards seized a bloody sweat, which can only
denote a very great weakness.
• The Protestants are wrong in reproaching the Cathollct
with the dogma of trq-.bmn'li4tilm. Those who ·beliefe
that God could be inccTflllte, ought not to hOld others ridi- ·
c$us who say that God CI;Il be: changed into bread. · If the
dogma of transubstantiation, is an absurdity, it is a very an-
cient one in the church, and only evinces the prodigious cre-
dulity of the first of the · faithful. St. Paul, St. Ignatius the
martyr, St. ll'eJ)iua, &c. speak of dUa ab8urd myltery like a...,.
Catholics.
· oigitizedbyGobgle
The agitated condition of the Saviour appenrs 'tery
iurprising to iu whose minds faith has not
remo\'ed every dillicultythe gospel presents; thf'y are
mucb astonished to find auch weakness in a God who
knew from all eternity that he was.destined to die for
the redemptiop of the human race. They aver, that
God his father, without exposing his dear innoce.nt sou
to such cruel torments, might by one word have par-
doned guilty men, conformed them to his views, a.nd
remitted their iniquities: . they think that the conduct
of God would have been more aimple and generous in
appeasing his wrath at leu expenee on account.of an
apple eat thousand years ago. But the·ways of
God ate not those of men. . The Deity ou!bt never .
to act in a natural way or be easily understood. It
is the essence of religion, that should never
· comprehend any part of the divine conduct; th·is fur- ,
'nishes to their spiritual guides the pleasure of explain-
ing it to them for their money.•
Whatever sentiments we may entertain on this, it is
certain that tbe Mao-God, on the approach of his
death, shewed a weakness which many ordinary me•
• would blush to display in a aimilar situation. Mean-
while the traitor Judas, at the bead 0f a company of
archers or soldiera, proceeded towjlrds Jesus whose
retreats be knew. A kiss was tbe signal by which the
guatds were to recognise the person whom they had
orclers to seize. Already Christ beheld the laothorna
o
'9.'tizedbyGoogle
arhanciog which lighted the march of these sbini;. •
and perceiving the impossibility of escaping, be made
a virtue of necessity'. Like a•coward become
rate, he resolutely presented himself to the party;·
" Whom uek yt ?" said he, with a firm tone:-
" Jesus," answered they. "' I am .ht.'' Here Judas
confirmed with a kiss this heroical c'onfession. The
apostles, awakened by the neise, came to the succour
of their mastet. Peter, tbe most zealous among them,
cut off.with a· stroke of his sabre the ear 'of Malchus
servant of High Priest.• Jesus, observing the
inutility of resistance, commanded him to put up his
swo;d, set in order tbe ear of Malchus, escaped
· at the expense of being frightened,) and afterwards
• Is it not eztraordinary that Jesus, who ineulcated tile • ·
doctrine of eo far as to .ef\join that " to bim '
who smiteth on the right cheek we should turn the left also,"'
pennitted any of his disciples to :wear a sword ? Does not
this show that Christ himself felt the difficulty of confonning
to his maxims, and at the same time fulfilling that part in society
which nature has assigned to all mankind' ? A.ecording to
Lactantius, no christian can be a soldier. The emperor
Charles V. UBed to say that "being a warrior it was impoe- •
sible for him to have either conscience or religion." His ge. .
neral, the Marquis de Piscaire, said, " that nothing wu
more difficult than to serve at one and the same time the
• God 1\fars and Jesus Generally speaking, nothing
.is more eontxvy to the spirit of Christianity than the· proo
feaion of arms ; nevertheless, the most christian princes have
most numerous and are perpetually at war. The
clergy .also would be extremeiy sorry if the maxims of the ·
evangelists, .or the CJn:ist;W) meekness, were •to be rigidly
. followed. lt-In no wise ,accords "ritb their interests. 'ne1
bave for to give 10lidi"9 to their
and their dm• rigltts i-How long1 0 llll'aeJ, will x.e nmU ·
the oj an interested prieSthood ?·
..
--J
surrendered himself to, aod accompanied those who
bad come to seize him.
It is related that the party who came on purpose to
apprehend Jesus, forced at first to gJve grouud.-
The fact is very probable: it was dark, and tbe archers
perceiving the apostle8 but very indistinctly, might
· believe that their enemies were more numeJ:Dus that\
in reality,'and therefore be afraid of being aurrounded1
but plucking up courage,they fulfilled their commis·
aion.
Whilst they bound the Son o£God with c<»,rds, be
besought the chief of the detachment not to molett
his apostles, and ns they wanted himeelf only, he easily
obtained his request. St. John believes that Jesua
made this entreaty in order to fulfil a prophecy ; but
it appears our hero thought it neither useful nor
just to involve men in his ruin, wbose.assistance might
still be necessary to him; or who, being at large; would
have a better opportunity to act in his favour.
•
oigiti;_
ed by4oogle
\
CHAPTER XV.
--- \
'I'&J.AL !MD COBDIKK.ATIOK OP PUJIIIH.&XT.
AKD DBATB.
\
WHEN the enemiea of Jesus bim in th.eir bande
they were not less embarrassed than before that event.
From the time the Romans bad subdued the Jewish
utioo, tbey bad no longer the right of the sword.
To punish those who bad sinned against religion, it
Wll sufficient at any former period, that the high priest
pronounced sentence on the culprit. The Romans,
more tolerant in this poiot, rarely punished with
death ; and, besides, to ·take away life they ·required
deciaive proofs against the accused.
Annaniaa, fatber·in-law of the high priest Caipbu,
was known among the JeWI for a very subtile man. It
was to Annaniaa' bouse, therefore, that they first con-
ducted Jesus. We are ignorant of what paassed in
this first acene ofthe bloody tragedy of Christ ; it i1
only to be presumed, that he undenrent an examina•
tion which proved no way favourable to him.
From the house of Annaniaa they conducted Jesus
to that of Caipbas. He was the man moat interested
by his office in the ruin of eTe,Y innovator in matten
of religion, yet we do not find that pontiff speaking
with anger; be conducted himself according to law
and aa a man who uadentood lli• profeslion.-
Digitized byGoogle
• Who," said he to Jesus, " are your disciples. their
number and names' ?" Jesus made no answer.,_
" But at least," continued Caipbas, " explain to
your doctrine. What end does it purpose? you muet
hne a system. Tell us then it is.'' At last the
Messiah condescended to say, " I spoke openly to the ,
world ; it is not I; but those who have heard me, that
ought to be interrogated.'' ·
Here one of the officers of the high priest gave
· Jesus a blow on the ear, saying," Answerest thou tbe
priest so•?'• The reprimand was harsh, but it
must be owned, that the answer of Christ was little
respectful .to a mau invested with authority, and tbe
right of putting quettions in order to- discover the
truth from the ·of the accused. Jesus ought
to have been better acquainted with his own doctrine
than .the peasants of Galilee or Judea, before .whotU
he had through preference affected to preach .in an .
unintelligible manner. It was therefore very just
natural to suppose, that Jesus could give a better ac.
count of his true sentiments and obscure 'parables, than
an ignorant multitude who had listened without being
ever able to him. He alone could be
supposed to possess the secret. of uniting into system
the scattered aod unconnected principles of his hea·
•enly .
Caiphas, unable to draw.any thing from tl1e accused.
• We remark with surprise that Christ forgot on thi8
to put in practice the e:tfellent counsel which
bad· given in the sermon on the Mount,-when a person
receives a blow on the one cheek, to turn the other : 10 true
it that preachers do not always act as thq preach to
other&
/
Digitized byGoogle
. .
24t
waited till ned morning when the council would
assemble, in order to continue this inquest. Christ
appeared berore the Sanhedrim, the most respectable
. tribunal in the nation. The go,.pel represents the
prieats and chiefs of the Jews occupied during the"
'whole night that Jesus was arrested, in searching for
and suborningfolse fl!itnem• agail!st him. They pro-
ducedtwopersoos,on wpomtbey very unjustlybestowed
this epithet. These witnesses indeed deposed to a fact
verified by the gospel Itself.-" We heard him say
that be would destroy the temple, and rebuild it in
three days." It is at teast. certaip, that Jesus had
uttered words, ., Destroy this and in
three days I will raise it up•." But the poor witne.sses
knew that he then spoke in hia figurative
Their mistake was pardonable, for according to the
gospel, the apostles themselv'ea did not discover the
true of. these words till after the resurrection or
their master.
This evidence was not suf&cient to condemn Jesu•
to death. The Jews, however ,iniquitous we may, sup- ·
. pose them to have. been, did not sentence fools to die 4
and these word• of Christ must have appeared to them
tlie mere effect of delirium. Accordingly the bigb
priest contented himself with asking, what he had t.Q
answer; and as the accused refused to speak, he did not
further insist on that point. I
. , He passed then to questions more serious:" Arc you
the Christ ?" said he to Jesus. How did the Messiah
answer this question? "Ifl tell it you, youwill not
believe oie, and you will not suffer me to depart. But
--. St. Kai uri. 81. St.lfad\:xiv. 68. St. John, U. lt-il.
b
yGoogle ·
. '
hereafter the·Sonof 1\lan shall sit on the right hand. of
God.;'-" Y-ou arP then the Son of God?" continue'd
the priest.-" You have said it," replied the accused.
''But it is not.sufficient that. we say it: it is
you who are..to answer: once ·more, are you the
Christ? I conjure you by the living God tell us i.f you
are hi11 Son ?"-" You have said it," answered Jesus:
"The Son of (i. e. the Son of God) " shall one
day come in the clouds,...of heaven." Notvtithstanding
tfiese perplexed answers, the judges imagined they
under!tood the meaning of his words ; and they plainly
perceived, wished to gi·ve himself .out for t/U
.Son 'f God. " He hath spoken blasphemy," said they,
and tmmediately concluded, he deserved death•,
.,-a judgment which was valid according to the law of
the Jews, and which· must also appear so to Christian!',
whose sanguinary with death those whom
1:he clergy accuse ¥>f blasphemy.-The Christians
·baye therefore no rigbt to blame the conduct. of the
so ·often imitated by ecclesiastical'and secular
--tribunals t.
• A devout magistrate has drawn up a memoir to pr tlllle .
.that in 'the process of .Tesus Christ, according ·to the criminal
ordhl&r:le'41 of Louis XIV. there were thirty-two nullities. There
· certainly would not '& found .any nullities according to the
·juiiaprudence of the Inquisition; who burn blasphemers alive with
a slow fire. St. Louis contented himself with making their tongues
be bored with !l red hot iron. ·
t the laity have considered it their d•ty to imitate
these ferocious monsters. We every day, says Mirabaud,
1ee that religion, or the cause . of heaven, hoodwinks the ltu-
mane, equitable and rational on every other occaaion ; so much
that they make it a dutY to treat those who deviate from ,
tWr mode Or thinkiDs with the utmoat..barbuity. An heretic:
_ • IC K ,
Digitized ·
I
I
j
!
I
1
On the other band, if it was neceuary that Christ
abould die; ifbe wished it; if the reprobation ofthe Jews
an incredulous person, ceases to -be a man in· the eye& of the
Every infected with the venom ._0(
religion, presents innumerable examples of juridical assasSi-
nations which the tribunals COJtlD!it without scruple, and.
without ·remorse. Judges, who are equitable on every other
I)CCaSion, are no longer ao when there· is a question before
them as to theology. In bathing themselves in blood thq
believe they confonn to the vi.ews of the divinity. • Aimoat '
every where the laws are subordinate to superstition, and are
. accomplices in ita fury. ' They legitimate or transform into
·duties those cruelties which are the moat contrary to the
rites of humanity.-Are not all these avengers of religilltt,
who, with gaiety of heprt. $1d through piety and duty, im-
molate those victims to it which it appoints, blind intolerants ?
Are they not tyrants who have the injt.istice to outrage opi•
olon, ·and the fully to believe that they can enslave the _
mind?
Are they not fanatica on whom the law, dictated by iDhuman
prejudices, impose the necessity of becoming ferocioua
brutes ?-Are not all those aovereigna who, to avenge
heaven, torment and persecute their subjects, and aacri&e
human victims to their gods, men whom religious Zeal ha8
converted into tigers ? Are not thoee priests ·so careful or
the soul's health, who inaolently break into the sanctuary of
·u.e tPoughts, to the end that they may fiBd in the opinions
of man motives for mjuring him, odious knaves ancl disturb-
en of the mind'a rl!pose, whom religion honoUl'l, and whom
ft880tl detests ? · What villains are more odious iD eye.
of humanity than those iafiunoua IttqUUitM-1, who bJ
blindness of princes enjoy the advantar of judging their
own enemies, and committiag them to the ftames ? · Nerero.
, theless the superstidon ·or the people makes· tkem respected,
and the favor of kings overwhelms .them with kindJaesa. In
short, do not a thousand examples prove that religion hu
every where produced and juJtified die molt uJw;ct>qntalde
horiora? Has it not a thousaDd times 81'DI.ed · men with *
poniards of holaicid.t ; let loole ·pallicmt muth mere teaiiWe
Digitized
'•·
was resolved on, Jesus acted very properly in keep)ng
them in·error. But if this was the intention of Pro-
vidence, why preach to them? Why perform miracles
before a whole people, whilst a small number were only
to profit by it? Did Jesus wish to save them ? In
that case why not convince the whole Sanhedrim of his
power? Why'did he ,not burst his bonds? Why' did
be not by a single word change their obstinate hearts?
Did be wish to destroy them ? Why not then strike
thelll dead ? Why uot instantly precipitate them into
belli ·
The judges could not comprehend why an accused
person, who could not extricate himself from their
bands, could be the Son of God. They accordingly
declared him worthy of death ; but not definitively, as
it was requisite that the sentence should be approved
of, and esec;uted by the Romans, sovereigns of the
·nation. During these transactions, Jesus was treated
in the cruellest manner by the Jews, whom as well as
than thoee whiCh it pretended to restrain, and · broken the
moat II8Cl'ed bonds of mortals? Hae it not, tmder pre-
tat of duty, of faith, of piety, .and of zeal, fayoured ' cru-
elty, stupidity, ambition and tyranny? Hu not the caute
of God -e murder, perfidy, rebellion, and regicide, legi-
timate objects ? Have not those princes who have frequently
made themselves the avengers of heaYen, the lictors of reH-
gion, hundredJ ot ·times been its victims ? In fine, has not
the name of God been the signal for the most dimlal follies,
and the moat frightful and wicked outrages ?-Have not tlae
altars of the gods every where swam in ? and. under
whatever fonn they may have exhibited the divinity, was be
not always the cau8e or the pretext of the ·most insolent rio-
latioa ofthe rights ofhumanity?
KK2
•
Digitized byGoogle
•
Christian's zeal or rather enjoined, to be'
,
It is during this night, and the of the fol-
lowing day fatal to the Sniour of the world, that
we niust place the three denials of St. Petel' the chief
of the apostles; ye_t for him his master had prayed•
His C()ml'ades, seized with dismay, had dispersed them-
selves in Jerusalem and its neighbourhood. Several
among them would !lave acted like Peter, if they bad
found themselves in a similar situation. Hl! had at
least the merit of keeping near his master; He abjured
him, it is true, but would 1t•have been-of more avail
if, by acknowledging him openly, Peter should have
himself in a very atlair, without be-
ing iu a coudition to relieve the Saviour.
The Sanbedrim repaired to the palace of Pilate the
Roman governor, in order to get the 'sentence coo-
firmed. Jesus was conducted thither. Pilate instantly
perceived,!that it was an affair in which fanaticism and
folly had the greatest share. Filled with ·contempt for
so a motive, he at first testified unwilliog-
nC!Ss to meddle in it. Judge hiin yourselves, said he to
the magistrates. Ou this the latter because false- wit-·
nesses. Zeal, 'no doubt, made them imagine, · that
every thing was allowed against an enetny of religion:
They interested the. sovereign power.in tbei{ quarreL-
They accused Jesus. of wishing " to make himself
king of the Jews," and of having maintained, .that
c' they ought not to pay tribute to Clesar." We re-
here the genius of the clergy, who, to ruin
•their enemies, are never very fastidious in the choice
of means. They especially strife to render the latter
,
Digitized byGoogle
247
-suspected by the temporal power, in order to
it through motives of self-interest, to revenge
• •
injuries, or satiate their-passions. .
Pilate could not avoid paying attention.to accusations
of so serious a nature. Unable to persuade himself, .
that the man he beheld could have conceived
so ridiculous, be interrogated him·:-" Are you the
king of the. Jews-?,. On which Jesus, in his turn, in-
terrogated Pilate, and demanded " Say you this of.
yourself, or have others told it you?.._ .. Of what con-
sequence is it to me," returned "that you pre-
tend to be the king-Of the Jews.? You,do not appear
to be aman much to be dreaded by the Emperor my
master-I am not of your nation ; I concern myself _
very little with your silly quarrels. Your priests are
your accusers-I have my own opinion of them-but
they accuse you; they deliver-you into my h2lnds--
Tell me then, What have you done?" Jesus: might
very easily have brought himself off in this affair; but·
in'the distress be was, his judgment began to wander·
. ' .
far from penetrating,the favourable dispositjon of
Pilate, who wished.to save him, be replied, " that his
kingdC?m not of this world-that he was the truth,"
&c. On this the Governor asked him, W"at is tlie
truth? But the ·Saviour made no reply, ,though. the
question well deserved a categorical answer.
Pilate, a little alarmed on account of Jesus, de-
clared, that be "'found nothing in him wo!tby .of
death:,. But this redoubled the cries of his
Having 1ea!ned that the accusf!d was a Galilean, be,
w get quit of the ridiculous· seized the ·op-'
,JlOftunity to send him to Herod, to.whose tetra.r<;bate
Jesus. originally belonged. We,bave sai-d elsewhere,
Dig tized by Google
that thia Prince had desired to see our hero, and hi•
desire was now gratified. But, on seeing his obstinacy
and constant refusal to answer the questions put to
him, he conceived a sovereign contempt for him. To
Pilate, therefore, be sent him back clothed in a white
robe by way of derision. The goTeruor, however, saw
no capital crime in Jesus, and wished to save him ;
besides, his superstitious wife bad a dream, that inte-
rested her in favour of our miuionary.•-Pilate then
said to the Jews, that be could find nothing in,
the mao, whicb rendered him worthy of death. But
the people, mis-led, and wishing him to be crucified,
cried out, Tolle, Tolle, away, away with him. The
Governor now devised another plan to save hi'm. "I
release," said be, "every year a criminal; supposing
that Jesus may be culpable, I 'am going to set him
free." The cries were redoubled, and the Jews de-
manded, that a robber called Barabbas should profit of
this inercy in preference to Jesua, whose punitrliment
they persisted to urge. ·
' The Romans, desirous to calm the rage of a fanatical
people, caused Jesus to be whipped. Thereafter, they
dreised him in a ridiculous manner, crowned him with
thorns, and made him hold a reed instead of a sceptre ;
after which Pilate shewed him to tbe people, saying.._
" Behold your king ! a.re you not yet satiafied ? See
• John Malida, and other fAbricaton of Jesends, lntbnn us,
that the wife of Pilate was caJled Procla, or Procula. They
Jaave made a saint of her. Some authors have made Pilate blm-
eelf a Christian, and even a rnartyT. Others affirm that Nero put •
111m to death, for having been concerned in the crucifixion of Christ.
Others that n.te ,... eliJed to V"Jenne in Dauphine, whele
lie JdlJed himieJt .
igitized byGoogle
bow to please you I have bedecked him. theu 1ese
cruel : do not carry your indignation further: be ought
no longer to give you umbrage.''
' The priests, whose maxim it is ne11er toforgi'Oe, were
not moved by this spectacle; it was only the death of
their enemy that could satisfy them. They shifted
their attacks, and, to intimidate the governor, gave
him to that by suffering the accused to
Jive, he betrayed the interests of his master. .It was
then that Pilate, fearing the effects of the malice of
tbe clergy, consigned Jesus to the Jewa, that they
might satisfy their rage him, execute their
projects: declaring, however, that " he washed hi•
bands of it," and that it was against his opinion if they
put. to death. We cannot well conceive how a
. Roman governor, who exercised sovereign power in 1
1udea, could yield 1!10 easily to the wishes of the Jews; ·
but we cannot more easily conceive how God permitted
this honest governor to become through weakness an
accomplice in the death of his dear Son.
Jesus, abandoned to the rage of devotees, again suf-
fered the cruellest treatment.• Pilate, to humble those
• St. Justin, Tatian, AtheBagOru, Lactantius, &c. have
reproached the pagans with their gods, several of whom,
according to the poets, had persecution and bad
usage. Were not theSe reproaches preposterous in the
mouths of the adorers of a crucified God ? The partizans ol
one religion perceived very well the ridiculoumess of ' their
but never saw that of their own religion. Lac-
tantius asks the pagans, " If it is possible to take for a God
an exile, obliged to fly or forced to conceal himaelf? No-
S."lys he, "is fool enough to do eo; for he who tliet
Qr c<m'ceals himself, shew!! that be fears violence or
Lanct. Divin. L i. c. 13.
o;9rtized Google
•
'
barbarians, wished the lahel affixed to the upper pa't
of the cross to bear, that he was their 'king: and no-
thing could induce-him to recede from this resolution.
"What is'written is written," said he to those who
requested him to alter an inscription dil'honotirable to
their nation. It is also proper to observe, that this in-
scription is differently expressed ·by the four ··evange-
lists.'
The Jews treate,9 Christ as a king dethroned,· and
made him experience the most bloody · outrages.
Though he had said that,-if he were inclined, be could
- inake legums ofangels come· to his protection, yet the
Jews, notwithstanding their natural credulity, paid no
credit to his assertion, and nothing could stop their ,.
religious cruelty, excited by the priests. They made
him take the road to Calv1lry. Christ sunk under the
weight of his cross_, but they loaded one Simon with it,
who was more vigorous than him ;.the unfortunate Jesus
must have been indeed much enfeebled by what be' bad
suffered during both the night and the morning.
At last Christ was placed on the'cross, the usual pu-
nishment of slaves. He did not suffer long under the
agonies of. crucifixion: after invoking his Father, and
lamenting his being so shamefully abandoned, be ex-
pired, it is said, between two thieves.• ' Here it is pro-
• St. Matt. uviL 4.4.. St. Mark, xv. St. Luke, uitl. 39,
&c. It il said that JeB\IS when dying exclaimed. Eli! Eli I
,. iamma 1ahbactani I (My God I my God I why hut thou
torsaken me !) Thil complaint was very ridiculc;rus in the
mouth of Christ ; the part he acted having been agreed on .
With his tather from aD eternity, he ought to have known wbU
he had to expect. At least we may suppose that thia e%1!lamati011
was but a ·feint meant to dectioc the speetaton-a conduct Httle
becomiDg a
Digitized byGoogle
2&1
per to remark, that the Holy Ghost, who inspired St•
. Mark, makes Jesus die at the third hour, that is, at
niue o'clock in tile morning, whilst the Holy Ghost,
in like manner ittspired St. John, makes Jesus die
at the sifth hour, that is, at mid-day. The Holy Ghost
is not more consistent in the of the two thieves,
in whose <;ompany Jesus was crucified. St. Matthew
and St. M:trk tell us, that the two thievt>s insulted him
with abusive language; while St. Luke assures us, that
oue only of. the' two abused the Saviour, and that the
other reprimllnded his comrade for his insolence,
besought Jesus •.• to remember him when he should
.come to 'his kmgdom."_ But our interpreters have a
tboueand ways of proving that the Holy Ghost never
contradicts himself, even when he speaks in the most
c.__oniradictory manner. Those who have faith are satis-
fied with their arguments, but they do not so power-
fully impress the freethinkers, who have the misfortune
'
to reason•
. The remorse of Judas soon Jesus on this
traitor. He restored to tl}e priests the thirty pieces
he bad received from them, and to hang
himself.• According to St. Matthew, the of
• According to the gospel of The Irifaney qf Jei'IU, chap.
:s.xx. Judas was possessed of a devil from his ..infancy, and·
would bite every body when the demon agitated ·him ;-he
we day bit the little Jesus on the side, who fell a weeping:
.Satan came out of .Judas · under the form . of. a mad dog•.
Codex •. N. T. tome 1. p. 197_, Some heretical
Christians have much esteemed .Judas maintaining that
without him the mystery of the redemption could not have been
ICCOlllplished ;-an idea not destitute of reason. Indeed, why
\dame a ' man, who, by .selling his ,master, was only the instru-
meJtt ¢ the salvation of the universe, and executor of the
L L
Digitized byGoogle
Jesus for thirty pieces had been foretold by Jeremiah :
it must however be ohst>rved, that the prediction does
not appt-ar iu the writings ofthis prophet, which would
create a suspicion that the evaogt>lista, little satisfied
with to Christ some prophecies, such as are '
extant in the Old Testament, have taken the liberly
of drawing from their own store, or forgingthem when
in need. But our able interpreters are not at all em-
barrassed with this; and a holy blindness will always.
prevent these bagatelles from being perceived.
The Gospel informs u11, that at the death of Chriat
all nature seemed to take part in the grand event. At
the moment he expired there was a total eclipse; a
frightful shaking of the earth was felt, and se•eral
holy personage:! ca.ue out oftheir tombs to take a walk
on the streets of Jerusalem.• Tbe Jews alone bad
the misfortune to see nothing of all this; it appearl,
that these w'onders were performed only in the fancy
of the disciples of Jesus. As for the eclipse, 1t wu
· doubtless an inconceivable prodigy, which could not
have taken place \vitbout a total derangement in the
machine of. the world. A total eclipse of the sun
during fuli moon, the time at which the celebration of
t.he was fixed by the Jews, ii of all miracles
the most impos11ible. No contemporary author baa ·
mentioned though this phenomenon well
4ecreei of 'l'htle hflretb ha.e a1liO a
I)( which tbet. make Judas the author, St. Ireneus. b. 1. COfttltl
.Jiaeres. c. 8$. • . .
• Hn•v then ·fa Christ terme<.l "the first fruits of theni
·IJeep And what are we to make of the resurrection of Lazatut..
Wblch precetW tbU, if J'e1111 Chriat Ia to be held the ".ftrll h«n
hnthedelaP" -
Digitized byGoogle
to be trantmitted to posterity.• The increduloua
therefore maiot.'lin, tt,at there was no eclipse ·on thia
occasion, but of the common sense of those who saw
·all these marvels, or of the good faith of the
wbo have attested them. With respect to the ahakiog
of tbe earth, they suapect that the apostles of Jesus,
beoumbt>d with fear at the sight oftheir divine master's
fate, were tbe only persons who felt it. In this way
indeed the thing becomes very probable.
When Jesus was dead, or believed to be so,t after
an iucision bad been\nade in his from which came
blood a whitish fluid, which they took for w.ater,
bia body wns embalmed, aod deposited in a tomb.
This was done on Friday evening. He had several
times mtimated, that he would rise again the third <lay,
that is, at the end of three days and three nights. Yet
on the Sunday following, early in the morning, the
• Some WJitel'l preter\d, that the eclipee here epoken or
11M been attested by an author wholly unknown, aud
by Phlegon, whose work no longer emu, but has been cited bJ
luliu.s Africanue, a Chriatian author of the. third century.
saye menly, that in the fourth year of the 202d Olym-
tiad there was a coDI!iderable eclipse; but this has nothing marvel-
lruinit. '
t If the punishment of Je1111 ie proved by the Gospel, IOJBe
tiraunatances may create a doubt wbetlaer he died immedJ_;.
.aty. We are told, that they did not, accordiqg to CUitom,
Weak his Jess. H,is friends had the liberty of taking away))»
Wy, and they might take care of his wOUDds on finding that
he was not dead, and in this manner bring him back to li&,
a least for some time. It is proper to l>baerve, that they laW.
Wm in a tomb quite new, from whence his clisciplea had perUJ.II-
taken care to get him out. We however thought it our dutJ
to funow the vuJsar opinioo, iD supposips that ,.. act»-
.Ur deacJ.
L L 2
L____...._________. Digitized byGoogle
•
tomb, wherein he had been laid, was ·fouud enipty.
-The always opiniative, did not admit tbat
he w:ts risen again. ·. They held it more natural to
belit've that he·had failed in bis or to suppose
that his clisciples had found means·to carry him oft:
This could easily have executed by force ;,by
bribing the guards, whom the priests and Pharisees
had placed around his sepulchre; or by conning. As
Pilate took but little interest in the matter, w' do not
find that he punished the guards merely from compli-
ance to' the•fears of the Jews, .for neglecting to
care of what he had confided io them, and which ap-
peart'd to him very ridiculous. Tbe idolatrous go-
vernor, little acquainted with the resources or designs
of the apostles, never suspected they could persuade
any person, that a man, whose death was well attested.
could return It was, powever, on. this marvel·
• It is not surprising that a should doubt the resur-·
rection 'of Christ. From the first day of the church, several •
Christians have not believed it, perceiving Tery plainly the incon-
gt...ity of supposing that the Son of God eould die; they haTe
therefore denied the death of their divine master. On this 1111b;.
ject the followers of Basilides aftinn, · that Jesus at the time of
liis passion assumed the appearance of the Cyrenean, and
transferred to him his own, under which the said Simon was cru-
cified in his stead, whlle CJ>rist, who bebe!.d this without beiDr
himllelf seen, laughed at their mistake. St. beneus, lib. i. c,
S. Epiph. hErs. uiv. rmm. 3. The. or diiciplee oi
Oerinthus, who was contemporary with the apOstles, and the
Carpycratians, in like manner, denied th&t Je8U8 could have beeJa
actually ·crucified.. Some have mllintained, that the traitor Judal
was pl,lllisbed in place ofhis master. ·Yet these sectaries regarde4
Cbrlst as a mere man, and not as a god. Thus we find Chris-
tiana contempoiiU'y w:ith the apost.leli believing in Christ, and
yet, like heretics, doubting of bia death. - M. de Tillemont,
.. Digitized byGoogle
•
'
lous notion, as we shall1ee, that a sect was afterward•
founded, powerful enough to subject by the
Roman empire and a considerable portiou of the globe.
On the other baud, ·the punishment of our berG
must have produced very little sensation in the world,
and his adventures must have been straogel,x unknown.
Iince we do.pot find that any historian, with ex-
ception of the evangelists, makes mention of them.•
tome p. 221. St. Epiph. hom. ito, 28, SO. Theodoret Heretic.
fab. lib. 1.
• The celebrated le Fevre de Saumur, and other good.
critice, have shown, that the passage of the historian Josephus,
where he speaks in praise of Jesus, has been visibly
by a piOIU fraud of Christians. This fraud is likewise very ablJ
exposed in an excellent dissertation in manuacript by the late
)f. I'Abbe de Longuerue. If the passage, favourable to
Ud been really written by Joeephus, that historian could not.
without being guilty of an absurdity, dispense with becoming a
, _
The devout forgers of writings, who anciently
vouchers for the Christian religion, have taken care to counterfeit,
with as much good faith, two letter1 of Pilate, addreseed to tile
IBlperor Tiberius, in which this idolatrous governor speaks of
lesus, his death, and resurrection in the same tone u
the most zealous disciple could have employed. We have ais.
a testimony as atlthentid'in a letter of one Lmtvlul to the Romaa
.enate. Although these suppositious pieces may be now re-
jected by the church, they were adopted by Christiana in tbe
time of Tertullian, 88 may be aeen in his Apolog. c. 6. 21. Tlat
letters are to be found entire mthe Codex Apocryp. N. T. tome 1..
p. 298, &c.
In the Appen4ix we have given a list of boob mentioned bJ
the fathers and other ancient writers, ascn'bed to Jesus and hll
. apostles, which w• see no J'e881!n for. regarding 88 Jess au-
thentic than the boob eompoling the New Telt&Dient, at ]lftlllellt
in our handt.
,
.... Digitized by G gIe
.j
I
CHAPTER XVI.
ltl51f&UC'l'IOIJ OF .JE8U8-Hll\ CONDUCT UKTIL Bll .UCt:Jr-
8JOM-EXAIIINATIO,'N OF THE P&OUF8 OF TR&
THE history of the life of an ordinary man termi-
•ates commonly with his death; but it ia: di,tferent with
·a Man-God wbo bas the powt'r of raising hiri1self from
.tbe dead. or wbom his adherents have the taculty of
•aking rise ;at will. Tbia happened ,to J.eaus: thanks
to his apostlt's or evangelistll. we see him still playing
• considerable part even after his decease.
· The momPut Christ .was arrested, his disciples. as
we have narr.tted, dispersed themselves in Jerusalem
wad the neighboorhood, with the exception of Simon
Peter, who did not lose sight of hill\ during his exa..
mination at,tbe house of the high priest. This apostle
was anxiotJs, for bis own interest, to know the result
of it. Encouraging themselves on finding that Jesus
bad not criminated them in his ex.aminations, the dis-
eiples concerted meaaures, and deter-
mined, as their master was dead, or so, to
take advantage of the notions which he had diffused
during his mission. Accustomed fot· so a period
to ltad a wandering life under his COJllll}and, and sub-
aiat at the expeoce of tbe public by means of preach-
ing, exorcisms, and miracles, tbey resolved to continue
.__.. '" .._
Digitized byGoogle
..
a profession more easily t>xerci11ed, and incomparably
m9re lncrativt> than thPir original They
had enjoyt>d an opportunity of observing that it wu
better to catch men than fish. But how t:'?uld the dis·
ciplesofa mau who was punished as an impostor, make
listened to? · lt was neces8\ry to give
out tfiat their master havinr-, during his life, raised
others .from the dead, had, after his own death, raised
bimst>lf, in virtue of hi11 omnipotence. Jesus had pre-
dicted it; it was therefore necessary .to accomptisla
the prediction. The honour of the master and his d'-·
ciples th'et·eby acquired a new lustre; and the seet.
far from seeing itself annihilated or disgraced, was
to acquire new partizans in this credulout
nation.
In consequence of this reasoning, the good
bad only to make the body of their master, rlead or
alive, to disappear, which, if it bad remained in the
tomb, would have evidence agairast them. They
did not even wait till the three days and three nigbtt
in 'the pretended prophecy were expired. The dead
body disappeared on .tbe second day ; and thus the
second day after ·his decease, our hero, triumpbioc
over bell and the grave, found himself revivified.•
• The ancient fi:amera ot the baTe fabricated -.e
which they· have aacn'bed to Nicodemus. In it we leara
low Christ · passed bia time after bia death tiD bia J'e8ll1'l"eeoo
tlon, his journey tO hell, · the deliverance of the patriardw,
&be diacomfiture of Satan, · &c. AU the8e detai1s are attoltel
by two dead peraone who came purpoeely from the other
world, to acquaint Ann8niu, Caiphaa, and the doctors
.tudea, of the8e ennt& CodeL AJiocr1pla. N. T. tome 1.
p. 2!8, &c.
Digitized byGoogle
258
If Christ was not yet dead of his punishment, his
returrection bad nothing surprising in it. If he wa11
actually dead, the cave, where his body was deposited,
might very probably have ·secret passages,
which they could enter and come out, without being
obsened or stopt by the enormous stone with whicb
they had affected to block up its entrance, and near
which the guards had been placed. Thus the dead
body have been carried off either by force or by
stratagem; and perhaps it had never bP.en deposited
io the tomb at all. In whatever manner the atlair was
transacted, a report was· circulated tbat Jesus was
rilen, and his body not to be found.
Nothing is of more importance to a Christian, thao
to ascertain satisfactorily the resurre(·tion of
St. Paul tells us, that "if Jesus be not risen, our hope
is vain.'' Indeed without this miracle of Oumipotence,
intended to .the superiority of over
ether men, and the the Deity took in hi.s sue-
eelS, Jesus must appear only as an adventurer, or
weak fanatic, punished for baving given umbrage t•
· the priests of his country. '
It is therefore requisite to examine seriously a fact.
on which·alone the beliefof every Christian is founded.
In doing this it is necessary to satisfy ourselves of the
.quality of the witnesses who attest the whetl,er
they were acute, disinterested, and· intelligent per·
JC)tll; if they agree in the narratives they give, or
&be circumatlmces they relate. Such are lht prt'cau•
tiona u'aually employed to discover the del(rt>e of pro·
bability or evidence of fact!'. They ate :tlf'O.the 111ore
aecessary, when it is intendt:d to e'xaulllle
faeta; wbicb, to be believed, require much stronger
o,gitized by Coogle
\ '
proQfi than ordinary On ·the unanimous testi· .
Mony of some historians, we readily believe that C1eaar
made himself master of Gaul ; the circugtstances of
his conquest would be less established, were we tn find
.them related by himself only. or his adherents; but
they wGuld appear incredible, if wefound in them pro- ·
.digies or facts contrary to the order of nature. We
would then have reason to believe, that it was intended
toimpose on us; or, ifwejudged more.favourably ofthe
authors, we would regard them as enthusiasts and fools.
to these principles. adopted by sound
·criticism, let us consider who are tbe witnesses that
attest the marveJioas, and cortsequently the least pro-
ttable facti!' which history can produce. They are'
apotitlee-But who are tbese apostles? Theyare act.
llerents of Jesils. Were these apostles ·enlightened
men ? Every thing provt's that they: were ignorant and
rude, and that an indefatigable credulity was the most
pf9minent trait in character. Did they .behold
Jesus rising from the dead ?-No ;:.-no· one behel&.
this great miracle. The apostle& themselves did not
see their master·coming out of grave; they merely
found that his tomb was empty; but this by no means
proves ·that be had rieen. It will however be said, the
apostles saw him afterftrde and ·conversed with him,
aad that be likewise shewed himself to some women.
. . . -'
who knew him Yety well. But these apostles and these
women, did they see distinctly? Did not their pre·
po11seSsed make them ·see what did not
exist? Is it absolutely certain that their master was
.dead before they laid him in the tomM
In the cmtd place, were these witoeues difintmst·
«<f Tlae apoatlee an4 dieeiples of Je,ut were
·.x x
Digitized byGoogle
•
260
_leas interested in the glory of the ntaater tbey bad
followed during the course of his mission. Their
interests were •confounded with those of a man
enabled them to subsist without toil. Several among
them expected to be recompensed for their attachment.
to him, by the fuours which be promised to bestow
on them iu the kingdom be was about to establish.
Finding these hopes destroyed by the death, real or
supposed, of their chief, most of the apostles, per-
suaded that all was over, lost courage; but otber!j,less
daunted, conceived that it was not necessary to tllrollJ
tile l1andle lifter the hatcllet; that they might profit
still by the impressions which the preaching of Christ
aod his wonders b.ad made on the people. They be-
lieved that their master might again return, or, if they
supposed him they could feign that he had fore-
told be would rise Tbey therefore agreed that
it was proper to circulate the report of his
tion; to say that had 'seen him; and to asaert
that Jesus had triumphantly come out of' the tomb:
which appear very credible in the case of a
personage who evinced bimself capable of raising
'others from the dead. Knowing the imbecility of
those they had to deal \Vith, ibey presumed that the
people were prepared long before band to l,lelieve tile
marvellous wonder which they intended to announce.
They conceived, that, in or9er to subsist, it was ne-
cessary to continue preaching tbe doctrine of a mao
wbowould not have an if it bad
pot been taken for granted 'that .he was risen -again.
They fel.t that it was to preach tbe .reNJr,rec-
tion of or .consent.. to. -Iwpger.
Tbey tbat it was necesaary tp bra"e
Digitized byGoogle
.261
chastisement and even death, rather than renounce an
opinion or doctrine on which tneir daily subsistence
and welfare absolutely depended. Hence unbelievera
conclnde, that the witnesses of the resurrection -af
Christ were any thing but .disinterested, and were
spurred on by the principle, that lte who risks nothing,
gains nothing. .
In the third place, are the witnesses of the rcsurrec:
tion of Christ unanimous in their evidence? Much
more, are they cqnsistent with in thenar-
ratives they give? We find neither' the one nor the
other. Though according to some of the
evangelists, had foretold in the most positive manner;
that he would rise again•, St. John makes no mention
of this declares, that the dis-
ciples of Jesus knew not that he mttst ri:;e again from
the deadt. This dtmotes in them a total ignorance of
that great event, said, however, to have been announc-
. ed by their master; and creates a suspicion that these
predictions of Christ were piously invented after-
wards, and inserted in process of time into the text of
St. Matthew, St. Mark, and St. Luke. Yet nothing
can be more pos-itive than. the manner in which St.
Matthew speaks of the prediction ; he supposes it so
well known by the .public, that he affirms, the priests·
and Pharisees went td Pilate, and told him, We remem-
ber this deceioer 1aid flllaile he yet alice, ·thai ofttr
three do!J• Ae rise again;. We do not, however,
find in any of- tbe a passage where this
resurrection isforetcJkl in 110 public and a·man..
• St. Matt. uvi. ft.: St. llark, ui. .iS. . . ..
t St. Jolut, ,u. t. . : .t St. Matt.
lDI.YD. &!.
"
' I
ReF. S&. 'Matthew himteJfteJatet Only the lftl\fer ofS.,
aut to who him a sign;·it conaistecl,
at we bave dsewhere said, in referringthem to ••
who was three days and..three nights in the b'elly oftlae
whale ; eo,.. said he, " eball the Son of man be three
days aud three night• in the of the earttt•.''
Now Jesus, having died on Friday, at the ninth bovr.
'OF mi,J..day, and rise,n again the secooci day early in
'the mornin,, was not, as we have already remarkad,
•• threedays and three in the heart of the eartla...·
/ Beside11, the obscure manner ia which Chritt·expret-
sed in this pretended prediQtion, could llbt_;
. enable t be priests 'Ud Pharisees to concl.
ude tltat
Jesus must dje aod rise again, or to excille tbeiralann•
uaTeM it is tat, on this occasion, these
eaetDiet of Christ teeei'Ved a -partieular reulMloa
tbt> interpretatioa of tbe.mysterioua predi<:tiou.
St. lobo tells us, that when Jesus was takea dowa
from the eros"' by Joseph of Arimatbee, Nicodemus,-
io order to tnaltaha him, brought a mixtuJe ofaloe.
aDd myrrh, weiglfing abbot a hundred poaads, ·•ad
that he afterwards took tlte bod1, wrapt it i• a
clean linen clot:b, •pica according to the
cuetorn.practiaed ·by tbe Jews in tbeir fueral cere·
mon,es, and laid it in tbe toa;tbt. Thus wae Jesus
eaabilltwed, carried away, and buried. On· tbe otlaer
hadd, St. Matthew aod St. Luke tell us tlaat tbis tepa)-.
tare and embalming were performe4 in preeence f6 '
Mary Masdaleoe aod Ma,. tlae motiller {){ ,.dlt.
wbo, oopsequeotly mutt ban kuown wb'at Nicodemu.
• St. Matt..-sH. as, &e.· · :· •·· t-k Joba, ._......_
t lt;Mtlk,.P,l;f. St. LuR,JIIii, U.
..
, .
Digitized byGoogle
. _..A__
-.
,
had doae ;· yet St. Mark, forgetting all tells 111,
that tbeae same women ,.., 'Piea (aro...
·in qrder t• eabaU. his bod!J, and came for that
purpose early in tbe 1m«niog of tilerday aubsequent
to tile Sabbath•. St. Luke baa no better memory,
ud informs ua, .that these ladies.came aleo to embalm
a dead body, which according to St-John, bad alr_eady
received a 'luntdNil pou,.. wight of aromatics, aod
W8l incloeed in uepukhre, tbe entrance of wbict. was
W.cked up by a mas_s.y atone. which embaJTasaed the
nmeu as macb at indi8g it u the incredulous are
witb these cOiltnldictions or'our evaogelistat.
These who dreaded the obstacle of
· tile etone, 4i.. aot dread the ebatacle of the guar4
wbida St. Matthew placed at die eatrance of the
.· But if tbeee women knew tbat Chriet was to rite agaiD
at the-end of daree days, why were tltey eo careful in
· a:aba1mins his body ?-uleu indeed we suppose that
Jesus made a aecretto his mother and the tender Mag-
alene of an eMnt which it is asaerted was publicly .
predicted, ud which wu ·perfectly well -known not
Mdy by his disciples, but also by the priests and Phari· ·
Mel., of wtloae extraordiaary precaotions we are in•
formed bySt. Mattbew. Aecordiogto tltis eV,angeliet., .
ttMie preeautiO'DI were louodecl on the fear the
were under!!. that dle tliaciplea of JEIBUs •• ehoultt come .
8H carry ·IVf"' biB body, and afterWIIf41 IIJ UJttG
t.. people, tbat lte it risen frMD the deed: an
•hieh, in tlteir opmiou,would be a.oredaoserous than
abe ftret." N•verdlete. we &ad aome, women and
ditciPiee ooa&iuuaily roamiag about the tomb, goint
Digitized byGoogle
and comi.ng.freely, and offering .to .embalm tbe same
dead body twice. It must be acknowledged tbat alt
this surpasses human understanding•.
, It is not more easy to conceive the conduct of
cuards placed near the tomb at the solicitation of the
priests, or that of the priests then1selvea. According.
to St. Matthew, these guards, terrified at the resurrec-
tion of Christ, ran to Jerusalem to tell the priests,
" that the angel .of the Lord had desc.
ended from hea-
Yeo, and taken away the stone which blocked up
the tomb; and that at the sight of him: they bad
aearly expired through fear., Oo tbiB tbe priests;
aot at all doubting the truth of.the relation ot the
auards, enjoined them to say publicly that the disci-
ples of Jesus had carried away his body during the
Jligbt, and while they w.ere asleep. Tbey also gave
the soldiers money to .speak in this manner, and pro11
mised to pacify the governor, if be wished to punia!J
them for their neglige.ncet.
As to this narrative, it is proper to ohlerve, that the
cuards did not·say they bad seen Jesus rise .from the
dead ; they pretended merely to have seen u the angel
of the Lord, descending from heaven, aQd rolling
away the stone which was at. the entrance of the
tomb.'' Thus this history announces a11 ni'Pflrilion
enly., and not a ruurrtction. We might it in
a manner natural enough by supposing that..d"'riog the
aight, wbiJe tbe guards were buried in ,sleep, the .ad.,
berents of Jesus came by the light of flambeaus,
an armed force., to open the tomb and intimidate the
aeldiers taken unawares, who in tbe alar:m tbef ex-.
't St. Matt. :ttrfil;
Digitized byGoogle
i265'
perienced imagined they · bad seen their prey taken
out'of their bands by a preternatural power, and tbat
they afterwards affirmed aU. this· in order to justify
themselves. ·
1 • The m9st. siugular circumstance is ·the conduct of
tbe priests, wbo.believed in earnest the relation ofthe
guards, and.· ooosequently gave credit to a miracle
'strong enough to convince them of the. power of
But far from being moved by the prodigy, wbicll
they thus believed, they gave money to the soldiers to
eogage them- to ·tell, not the as it occurred,
but that tbe disciples of Jesus came by night to take
away the body of their master. On the other hand,
. tbe guards, .who must have been ·more dead than alive
through terror at the spectacle they had witnesSed,
money for publishing a falsehood : a conduct
for which the angel of the Lord migl'at very properly
have punished them. Far, however, from dreading
punishment,. these ,soldiers for a sum of money con-
to bt;tr3-y their consciences. But could the
Jewish priests, base we may supl)()se them,
be,silly enough to imagine that these men, after hn- '
'ing witnessed so terrible .a· miracle, woulti be very ,
faithful in preserving the secret? It must have beeft
an insignificant miracle indeed which could ma.ke no
impression either on ·the soldiers .•ho bad seen it, or
on the priests who believed it on the relation oftheae
eoldiers. · If the priests were. convinced· of the reality
.Qf. the miracle, was it not natural tbat they should
Jet,us for the and that they should
unite with him in labouring to deliver their country
.the yoke of
On this , indeed_..the angel of the Lord
aeema to have bungled tbe affair, ·by 10 the
.oldiers that they fled without having time to see Jesus
riaing from the dead, w.hose reeurrflction, .however,
was the object of all this pompous preparation. Very
far from aUowiog it to be seen by any one, th.ia awk-
ward angel chased away tbe guards who ou1ht to·baTe
been tJle witneaaeaiJf the mighty woader.
It appeal"f in fact, that the transaction of Jeaua'
resurrection wu nobOdy. His disciples did
twt see it; tbe soldiers, who guarded his .tomb, did not
aee it; and the prieata and Jews did not hold tbis fact
to be so memorabJeuaome persons who beheld no part
of it. It was only 'after h&. ·reaurrection that Jesu;
ehewed himself. . But to whom did be shew himseln
To disciples interested in eaying that be was risea
again; "to women, who tothe same alae
weak minds and ardent imaginations, disposed to form
phantoms and chimeras.
These rema)"ks will enable us to judge ofall the pte-
. tended appearances of Jeans after his resurrectio11.
Besides, tbe evangelists are not unanimous as to thee
appearances. St. Matthe" relates, that J•us shewed•
himself to Mary Magdalene and the other Mary;
while St. John. makes mention .of Mary Magdaleae
singly. St. Matthew tells us, that Jeauuhewed himself
' -to the two Marys on the road whilat returning from
the sepulchre Oft purpose to apprise tbe disciplee of
what they bad seen. St.·Jobn informs us, that Mary
Magdalene, after visiting the sepulchre, went and car•
ried tbe news to thf' disciples, and thereafter returnecl
to this same sepulchre, wllere she beheld 'Jesus in the
company of angel•. St. Matthewaffirms, that tbe twe
. Marys the'_feet of Jean. St. John eays.
. \
• o;gitizedbyGoogle
267
Jesus forbade Magdalane to touch him. St. Matthew
informs us, that Jesus bade the two Marys tell his dis·
ciples that lte was ogoing i11to Galilee. St. John· says,
Jesus ordered Mary to acquaint. his disciples, that he
eas goi11g to his Father; that is, to· heaven.-But it'is
more singular still, that; according to' St. Mark, thA
disciples themselves were not' ·inclined to credit the
apparition of Chri!t to Magdalane; .agreeably to St.
Luke, they treated all that she told them of angels as
reveries. According to ·st. John, Magdalane herself
did not at first believe thafshe had seen her adorable
tover, whom she took for_ the gardener.•
There is no greater certainty in the apparition. of
Jesus to St. Peter and St. J'obn. These two apostles
went to the sepulchre, but they did i10t find their denr
master. According to St. John, be himselfsaw neither
Sesus nor the angels. From St. Luke it appears, that
these apostles arrived after the angels were gone; and.
from St. John, before the angels bad arrived. The
, witnesses are indeed very little unanimous as to these
angels, who seem to· have been seen only by the good
ladies, whom they charged to announce to the disciples
the resunection ofJesus. St. Matthew makes mention
of one 'angel only. whom St. calls a young men.
St. John affirms, that there were two. ··
It is said, that .Jesus shewed himself again to two
disciples of Emaus,. ealled Simon and Cleophas; but
they did not recognize him, though they had lived fa.
miliarly with him. They proceeded a long white· in
his company without suspet:ting·who cir.o
'
· • St. Mttt. XDi1L
St. S:ri. .
St. John :a.
}I( li .
St. Luke, aiv; 11.
. I
o;gilized byGoogle
. cumstance undoubtedly, evinced a very str;1.0ge
failure of memory. It is true, St. Luke tells us tbat
their eges rvtte as ff 'hut. Is it 'Very singular that
Jesus should shew himself in order not to be known
again? They, however, recognized him afterwards;
but fmmediately dreading, as it would seem, to be
seen too nearly, the disappeared. The two
<Jisciples went immediately and annouaced the pews
to their brethren assembled nt Jerusalem, wbere Jesu&
arrived fully as soon as they.
St. Matthew, St. Mark, and St. Luke, agree in tell·
ing us, that when the disciples were .of the
resurrection of Jesus, they saw him for the first and
last ·But the author of the Acts o( the Apostles,
St. John, and St. Paul, contradict this assertion, for
they speak of several other .appearances, which after-·
wards occur.red. St. Matthew and St. Mark inform
the disciples received orders to go and join Jesu.s
in Galilee; but St. I!.uke and the author o( the Acts
(i. e. the same St. Luke) says, that the disciples
ordered not to go out of Jerusalem. Wi!IOl rest>ect to
this last apparition, St. Matthew places it on a mo•n-
tain in Galilee, where Jesus h!ld fixed .the rendez.rous
for the evening of the day of his resurrection; whilst
.St. Luke informs.us, that it was at Jerusalem, and tells
us, that immediately .thereafter Christ ascended into
" and disappear.ed for ever. Yet the author of
the Acts .of the Apostles is ·not of this opinion; be
maintains, against himself, that Jesus tarried still forty
days with his disciples, in order to instruct
There still remain to be considered two appea,rances
of Jesua to his apostles, tbe ene at which Thomas was
not present, and refused to believe those wb9 al!aured
Digitized by
\
.. 269
_him of their having seen master, the other
wtien Thomas recognised his who·sbewed
his wounds. To render one of these apparitions more
marvellous, they as!ture us, that Jesus was seen in the
midst of his disciples, fllhilst the doors were shut. But
this'will not appear surprising to those who know that
' Christ, after his resurrection, bad an immaterial or ill-
corporeal body, wbicli consequently eould make itself
a passage through the smallest orifices•. Hill discipleat
'took him for a •pirit: yet this •pirit bad wounds, was
palpable, and took food. ..But perhaps all: this only.
cliiiner'ical, and those apparitions mere illusions of
sense. Indeed, how could the apostles be assured of
the reality of what saw? ·A being ·who has the
power of changing course of nature, can destroy
all tbe rules by which we judge of certainty: and on
tbh1 supposition the apostles could never be certain of
'Mving seen Christ at'ter his resurrection. . . ·
·· St. John speaks of several appearances of Jesus to
his disciples, of wbicb no mention is made by the other
evangelists: hence we see that his testimony destr-ys·
· or that theirs destroy his. As to the appari-
tions of Jesus whiclr St. Paul mentions, be was not a
witness of them, and knew them only by hearsay;· we
find hiiu accordingly Jpeaking of them in a manner
very little exact.· He says, for example, that Jesut
ahewed himself "to the twelve," while it is evident.
that, by the death ofJudas, the college was
reduced to eleven. We are surprised to see these in-
accuracies in an inspired ·author ; tbey may render sus..
picious wbat be likewise says oftbe apparition ofJesus
to five hundred o( the brethren at once•. As to him-
• 1 Cor. rv. cs.
KK2
/ .
'W n a·
byGpogle
-
270
we ku6w. that he never saw his lnaster but in a
vi.ion,• and 'considering the testimonies on which tbt;
resurrection ofJesus is founded, ,perhaps we may say
as mucb ·of tbe other aposqes and disciples. They_
were enthusiasts,,and prophets; consequently
subject to dreaming even while incr.edu-.
'
• St. Paul himself' infonns us .that he was ravished up to
the third heaven. But 'why was be .transported thither, and
what did he learn by journeys ? - TAing•
fllhich no man could compreMnd. What advantage are rDall•
kind to derive from all this ? In the Acts of the
we find that this same Paul guilty of a falsehoo4 in. say•
ing before the High Priest, that he was persecuted IJecq.fUe
Ae wa. a Plw:rilte, and on acc011.nt of the, remrrection.
Here, in fact, are two untruths. F'l1'8t, Paul was not a Phs.·
rilee at the time, but a m«* zealoua apostle of the Christian
religion, and consequently a Christian. Secondly, the IIAlCII4
sations brought against him did ' not refer to his opinion on
the resurrection. If we know _
that the apostles somet:imes'
wandered from the truth, how sball we believe them on
other occasions? · We. indeed •find this great apostle continu..
ally1 changing his counsels and conduct. At Jerusalem he
strenuously r_eter because favoured Judaism,
while he himself shortly _
after complied with Jewish ritea ;
and boasted that he alwaya accommodated himself to · the
circumstances of the times, and hecame all thing• to all me.. ·
By this ,he set ·an example to the Jesuits in India, who' were
having united the worship· of the Pagans to
' that of Christ.. We do not know that ,the proteetant, CIJristl.
an8 of the pre<Jent day, whO are employed as missionaries in
Hindostan, are as. accommodating as their brethren the
Jesuits : but this we lrnow by no less· an authority than official
recently 011 the table ofthe House of Common•,
that we. Christians a traffic of the Pagan religiou in
by tctUauy compelling the natives to paya taxjot',atllftilnoh.fo lkli,.
temp/M to wor1hip the Idol
- a
I
r
/
271
lolls consider .this. to be t be most favourable opinion
they can form of witnesses who attest the resurrection
of the Saviour, on which however the Christian religion
ia solely established. - ·
· ft appears indeed most certain, from the nature ,of
the testimonies we have exa111ined, that Providence
has in a singular manner neglected to give to an event
so memorable and of such great importance, the au-
thenticity it seemed to require. Laying aside faith,
· wbicb never expe'riences any difficulty ah.out proofs, no
man can factS, even the most natural, from
-roucbers.,_ so faulty, pro()fs so weak, relations so con-
tradictory, and so suspicious as those
which the evangelists furnish us on the most incredi-
ble an<\ marvellous occurrence that was ever related.
independent of the visible interest these historians bad
in establishing the belief of the 'resurrection 'of their
master, and which ought to put us.on ourguard againat
tbeQ!, they seem to written merely to,contradict
one and reciprocally weaken theit testimonies.
To adopt relations, in which we have only a tissue
of inconclusiveness,--eontradictions, improbable facts,
and absurdities, to destroy all confidence
history, requires indeed grace from above. Yet Chris-
tians do not' for a moment doubt the
and their ltelief in this a:espect is founded on a roclc,
that is, according to infidels; on prejudices they have
never examined, to which, from early in,fancy,
theit: spiritual guides have prudently attached the
ireatest importance. They teach them to immolate
on the altar offaith, and good seoee:
-After. this sacrifice, it ·is no iqnger difficul(to make
them a<Jknowledge, without enquiry, the most palpa-
'
.... • .d.._.___ .. - ---
Digitized rGoogle
272
ble abrurdities for truths, on which it is not permitt.td.
even to be sceptical.
It is in vain, that people of sense demonstrate the
falsity of these pretended truths; it is in vain, that an
intelligent critic stands up against interested testimo-
nies, visibly suggeste61 by enthusiasm and imposture;,
it is in vain, that humanity exclaims against wars, mas.
acres, and horrors without number, which absurd
disputes on absurd dogmas have occasioned. They
silence people by saying, that " it is written, I will
destroy the wisdom of the wise, and wiU bring to
nought the understanding of the prudent.-Where is.
the wiae? Where are the scribes? (the doctors of
tbe law). Hath not God made foolish the wisdom Qf
this world by causing the foolishness of the gospel to
be It is by such declamations against
ieason and wisdom, that fanatics and impostors have·
atieceeded in banishing good sense from the earth.
and fashioning slaves who make a merit of subject.
mg ,to faith, of extinguishing a sacred torch•.
which would conduct them with certainty, on pur-
pOse tO' lead them astray in the darkne&s these inte..
rested guides know bow to infuse into minds. To de-
grade reason is an outrage against God its author;
ind it is an outrage against man who is thereby re-
duced to the condition· of brutes.
The dogma of the resurrection of Jesus is only
- attested by m,en whose subsistence depended on that
absutd romance ; and a• roguery continually beliu. it•elf.
these lying witnesses could not agree among them-
aelles in their They tell us, that Jesus bad
• 1 Cat. I. t, &c.
publicly predicted his own resurrection. He ought
therefore to h!lve risen .again publicly; he to
have shewn himself, not in secret t(> his disciples,
but openly to doctors. and men of
understanding, especially after having intimated, that
it was the onliJ sign which would be give11 them.
it not ac.knowledging the falsehood of his mission, t';l
. r.efuse the sign by which he had solemnly promised
tO prove the truth of that mission? Was it
to require the . Jews to believe, on the word of his
disciples, a fact which be have convinced them
with their own eyes ? How is it for rational
persons of tbe age believe,,after the
Qf eighteen hundred years, on the discordant testi!Jlo-
nies of fo!lr interested.evangelists, fanatics, or fabulists,
a fact which they could not be believed in their
own time, except 'l)y a .small number of
people, incapable of fond .of the
lous, and of too limited understandings to escape the
laid for their simplicity.• · A Roman ·gover-
nor, a tetrarch, a Jewish high priest, conve.rted by
the apparition of Christ, would h_ave made a greater
impression on .a man of sense than a hundred
apparitions to his chosen The conversion
·· of the Sanbedrlm at Jerusalem to ·the faith, would.
have of ihan all the
rabble which the apostles prevailed on to qelieve
improbable and persuaded that they bad
seen Christ alive after his death. · . . . .
• So stupid indeed were the .Jewish people, that ApolloDiaa
.laid to them, " The .tewa were· the mOat trifJiDg aD the
barbarians, and· that they were the only peOple who W
found out any dUJg · ·
'*'"'·k ..- .,..,
• '111t A . Jib. i. . .
agaa.
•
Digitized byGoogle
274
If the apparitions of Jesus to his apostles were not
obviously fables invented by roguery, or adopted
tbro11gb enthusiasm and iguorance, the motive of these
cJandestine visits cannot be divined. Become inca--
pable of' suffering, re-established in his divine omni-
potence, was-he still afraid of the Jews? Could he
dread being put to death a-second time? By shewing
himselr, bad he not better reason totlatter himself with
converting them, than be derived from all his sermons
and miracles? ·
But it is said, that the by their opposition de· • 1
served to be rejected ; that the views .Of Providence
were changed ; and that God no longer wished his •
chosen people should be- converted. These answers
are so many insults to-the divinity. How is it pos•
.Jible for men to God ? Is it not to deny the
Divine pmnipotence to pretend that mlf,n can oppose
its will? Man, it is asserted, is free : but must not a
God ' who knew every thing, have foreseen that the
Jews would abuse their Ii6erty by resisting his will?
Iri that case why send them his Son? Why make him
auffer to no purpose an infampus ,and cruel dealh ?
Why not send him at once to creatl!res disposed to
bear him, and render him their homage? To pretend
that the views of Providence were changed, is it not
to attack the ·divine immutability"? unless indeed it
be said, that the Deity had from all eternity resolved
on this change-which, however, will not shelter that
immutability.
Thus in whatever point of view we contemplate tbe ,.
matter, it.will remain.a decided fact, that the resurrec-
tion of Christ; from being,founded on solid proofs.,
unexceptionable testimony, respectable authority,
Digitized byGoogle.
·'
..
is obviously established on falsehood and knavery,
which pervade every page of the discordant relations
of those who have pretended to vouch it.
After having made· their hero. revive and shew him-
self, we know not'how often, to his trusty disciples, it
was necessary in the end to· make him disappear al-
together-to send him back to heaven, in order to
concludethe romance. But our story-tellers are not
more in union on th_
is disappearance than on other
things. They agree,neither as io the time nor the ,
place of.Jesus'. ascension. St. ·Mark and St. Luke
.•inform us, that Christ, after having shewn biinseff to
the ;eleven apostles, while they were at table, and
spoke to them, ascended ink> heaven. · St. Luke how-
ever adds, that. he conduCted them out Jerusalem as
far as Bethany; and there he lifted up his hands. and
blessed them, an4 was afterwards carried up into hea-
St. Mark _
contradicts St. Luke, and makes Jesus
ascend to heaven from Galilee :·and as if be had seen·
what passed on high, places him· on the right band of
God, who on this occasion yielded to."him the place of
honour•. St. Matthew and St. John do not speak of
this ascension. If we referred it to them, we must
· presume, that Jesu,a is still Qn earth, for, according to
the fint of these evangelists, his last words to his
ciples gave them to " he would
main with them until the end of .the world... To fix
our ideas on this subject, St. tells us, as we have
seen, that Jesus ascended into heaven the very evening
• The fable of the aacension of Chriat. is 'rili'bly boJTOW-
ed from that of. the asceQBi.oa of' Romulua and luliua Ceaar,
which Lantantius howeter finds very ridiculoua. LactaDt.
lnltitut. b. 1. l•·
00
Digitized byGoogle
)
•'
276
of the day of the' tesnrrectioo'.- But the same St.
who is supposed to be tbe author of the Acts ot
the Apostles, in16rms us, .that Jesus tarried fu,·tg days'
cifter his resurrection with his dear disciples. Faith
only can extricate us from tll'ts embarrassment. St.
Jobp advances nothing on the matter, but leaves us i.n
uncertainty as to the time which Jesu's passed on earth
after his resurrection. Some unbelievers on observ-
_ing the romantic style reigning in the gospel on this·
apostle, have concluded from the m:tnner in which lie
his history,,that he meant to give free course .
to the fables which might afterwards be published
about Christ. He. his narrati've' \Vith these ·
words;" Jesus did also many other thi'ngs, and i'f they
should be wtiftet:t every ol'!e, l soppost', that even the
world itself could not contain the books tfrai shoul,( l>e
written;" and with: hyf>erbole, the wel\-befaved
apostle finishes tfie Platonic tomanee whrch he made on
his master•.
• We have already given examples of the fables contli.imid
in the different gaspels, publiShed and adopted by the dif:-
ferent lll!ctll of Christianity. These fables demonstrates both
the impudent of the forgers who composed !!uch
romances, and the astonishhtg stupidi\y of the dift"erent!
sectaries who believe them.-It is also proper to. obserft,·
that the Acts rif the Apostles, composed by · St. Luke, relate,
orlly with minuteness 'the transactions of St. Paul, hill IDIU!-
ter, and give us scarcely any fu!>nnation of the success or
fate of his btetheren. Yet other romance writers have wor-
thily supplied .this defeet. Ohe AMitiS, ainoilg others, liaS
transmitted us in nine books the Apoltolic History, but
fraught witfr so many fames; and ad'miidities,
the chureh itsl!ll obliged to· them, at a
whea its Jlad 11'0 Tonger dte .unpll:cicy' or the first
.ages. · Ignorance however has at times yielde<t to' thia ancient
Digitized by G,oogIe
CHAPTER XYI1..
.__,..._..,.,.,_
·Oii::NJm.U, REF,LECTIONS ON THE LIFE OF CHJli.!!T.-PRE.CR.•
lNG OF .THE APOSTLES,-CONVERSION OF ST. PAUL,-
Olo' CHRISTI.lNl'fY.-PER:.
IT SUFFERS.-CA.USES
/IF ITS PROGRESS,
'l'H,E life of Jesus, such as we
h11ve prP-&ente,cJ lt1 to"tbe monuments which
respe.ct 3f inspired, must be sufficient to un·
·4e{:eive every being. But it is the p,roperty
of supers.tition to prefent thinking: .it benumbs the
the reason, perverts the judgment, ren-
qers 4oubtful most obvious "truths, and makes a
merit with its slaves of despising enquiry, and of rely:-
if1.g Qlindly .on tile word of those who govern them. ·It
jit n.ot unseason;Jble, therefore, to bring again under re- '
view, some reflections, wbich may be useful to those
readers have not rage to draw out of the en-
quiry we bav.e made, the qonsequences which naturally
.. r.esult frQm it; and thus aid them in formipg rational
ideas of the Christ they adore, of his disciples whom
credulity ; ·and weak people jllld kru!.ves h;Lve existed, who
revived the 'fables qaditions of the ancient romantic
'l'1!ese are the mtmoirs we possess the apostles:
8}¥lcimens of them will be found at the end of tome 1. of the Codex
.
0 0 2
.
.
Digitized by Google
·'
•
·-
•
2'78
they revere, and of books they are acc-
uetomed
to regard as divine.
Our of the birth of Christ ought to
render .Jt very suspicious. We hue feund the Holy
Ghost mistaken on that important article of:Jesus' life;
for he inspired two evangelists with two very different
genealogies.. Notwithstanding so striking a blunder, ·
and the consang.uinity of the Virgm ·Mary and Eliza.
beth, wife of the pt:,iest Zacharias, we shall not _
cavil on
these points :7 we shall that Mary might really
be of the race of David :-:many examples demon-
strate, that the branches of races more illustrious hiKe
fallen into misery. also from the supposi-
tion, that Mary, the immaculate wife of Joseph, m.Jy
have willingly yielde«l to the angel; or, simple and
dev.mJt, may have been deceived by the there is
every reason to believe, that she afterwards taught her
son his descent from David, and perhaps some 'marvel-
lous circumstances, which, by justifying the mOther,
might kindle the enthusiasm of the child. · Thus, at a
very early age, Jesus might be really p'ersuaded both
of his royal extraction, and of the'wonders which bad
accompanied his birth. lfbese ideas might aftefwards
inflame his .ambition, and by degrees make him believe
that he was destined to play a grand part in his native'
COU'\)try. Prepos!'!essed with these sublime notions, be
concluded with being convinced of their authenticity,
and intoxicating himself more and more by the perusal·
· of obscure prophecies, and the study of tra9iti()ns
spread- abroad in his own C?untry. It is then very
possible, that our adtenturt>f might have come to ·be.
Iieve .himself actually by the and
pointed -out by the ,prophets to be the reformer, the
•
..J
..
.,.. ......... c r·• -
Digitized by og e ,
•
'
279
chief,. and the Messiah Of Israel. · He was indeed a· ·
and found people silly enough to be caught
by his reveries•. ·
Anc;»ther cause might likewise contribute to heat the
brain pfour missionary. Some learned' men have con-
with much appearance of truth, that Jesus
framed his morality, and his knowledge in
the house of a kind of monks, or Jewish Camobites,
(friars) Therapeutes or Essenians. We cer-
tainly find a striking conformity between what Philo
. of these pious enthusiasts, and the sublime
precepts of Christ. The Therapeutes quitted father '
and mother, wife, children, and woperty, in order to
apply tbetf!selves to contemplation. They explained
the scripture in .a manner purely allegorical ;/they
..abstllined ·from oaths; they lived in common ; they
suffered with resolution the misfortunes of life, aad
died with joyt. -From all which it may be concluded,.
' • n iS an ardent and tender tempeBment that produoee
mystic devotion. Hysterical WOlllen are those who com-
monly love God with most vivacity ; they Jove him to W.. .
traction as they W()uld love a man. In monasteries, of
the devotees are of this description. Their imaginations
grow wild, ' arid they give to their God, whom they pain't in
the most captivating cdl!>urs, that tenderness which they are not
permitted to on beings of 'their own species.
U"vtiled.
t See Philo on .Contemplative Lffe.- The first fathen of ·
the church, struck ·with the confonnity ·between the manners .
which Philo attributes to the Therapeutes, ana those of the
-first Christians, do not entertain a doubt that they were the
persons this learned meant to' point out undel' the ·name _
of TherapeulP!, or contemplative EBBenians. It is certain,
tbat, in the time of the historian Josephus,. · three l!eCtB were
hckoued in Judea, the 1Phariseee, the 5allducees, and the
•
'·
. oigitizedbyGoogle
,
)
either that Jesus had been a Tberapeute before his
preaching, or nt least that be bad borrowed their.
doctrines.
Whatever may be in this, in the midst of an ,ig,n.9fa
rant and superstitious nation; perpetually fed
oracles and pompous promises; miserable at that tim.,,
and discontented with the Roman yoke; continually
cajoled with the expectation of a deliverer, who w"'
to restore them with honour; our enthusiast, withou,t
difficulty. found an audience, and, by degrees, adh.e:- ·
rents. Men are naturally disposed to listen to,
believe, those who them hope for an end to their
miseries. Misfortunes render them timorous and
dulous, and lead them to superstition. A
easily makes conquests among a wretched people. It
it not then wonderful, that Jesus should very soo9
acquire partizans, among the populace, wbQ
in every country are easily seduced. ·
hero knew tb.e of J?.itt f.el\<}.w"!'(:itji:eQS.
They Wlf.nte<J. 3nq be, in their eyes, per-
Tru:med them. A st:upid people, totally strangers to
the natural sciences, to !'Ile<!icir!e. or to the
of artifice. easily Vtiry f9f
.a9<J. to f.jRgq pf (}Qd
ptjgiM; owing to ·kn!>wledg.e Jeaua ha4
EsseolaDt, Gr EsseRes. From the time ·of that writer, •
ia no longer any mentiotl. ma?e of the ; .sqtPe
learned men have c<includeti, that these Essenians, ' or The-
l'efe afterwanls an(!
tiM! .first Christians, who, according to every evidence, led a
uaane» of.· life peffeotl7 similar to Le· .Clerc
Uuit'ersalle, tom. 4. p•. .&c. and Bernard's de
1a RepuW. c1es Lettzee, tom. as, P· .sos;· .·
• .I
281'
acq!lired during the long interval that preceded his
mission.• Nothing in the world is more cdrtrln<Jh than
the combioation of enthusiasm and imposture; the
most sincere devotees; when . they intend to ad\Tam:e .
what they believe to be the word of God, .or·to make
religion prosper, often countenance frauds- which they'
style pious. There are but few zealots who do not.
even think crimes allowable when the intetes1:s' Of relr-'
gion are concerned. In religion, as at play; one be!i1lt
01ith being dupe and ends with being knave.
Th'lls, on considering things aitentively, and
ing the particulars of the life of Christi we must test.
persiuided, that b'e wa$ a fanatic, who really thought
himself inspired, favoured by_ He:rvel'l'; sent to·lirs na-·
tion, and in short the Messiah :--that to support hi$
divine mission, he made no dit)iculty to employ frauds
tbe best calculated tosucceed with a people' to whom
- miracles were absolutely necessary, al'ld whom,
out miracles, ,tbe most eloquent harangues,. the
precepts, the moat intelligent counsels; and ti1e truest
principles, could ne'fer bave conl'rnced'.-In 1i word,
a medley of enthusiasm and juggling appears to·cori..:
stitute the character of Jesus, and it rs thttt of a'ln'lost
all spiritual adventurers who assume the niu'tie'of Re-
formers, or become the chiefs of a sect.
'
• The want of in every. cmmtry &a\i: tlb1Iy
priid'uced t!ie same eft"ects. The Am\lrieims eon'ide red tHe
spariiaidS Gods beCause they used' gunpowder, rode on
arid had vesselS which qutte alone. The mr.bU!awrlt
of the island of Tenian, having no lmowleage c:i fi*' . .
were visited by Europeans, toolnhem·for
*'"' tliem; who devoUred wood. ·
Digitized by Google
We always find during his mission, preach-
ing the kingdom of his Father, and supporting his
preaching wonders. first he spoke only in
a very reserved manner of his quality of Messiah, Son
of God, and Son of David. There was pruden,ce in
not giving himself out for such.-But he' suffered the
secret to be revealed by the mouth of .the devil, to
impose silence 6n whom becommonly took great care!
not, however, until after the devil bad spoken in a man-
' ner intelligible to make an impression on
the He·thus, with ,the assistance of his
. 'possessed, his proselytes, or his convulsionaries> pro-
cured testimonies in his behalf, which from his own
mouth would have been verY suspicious, and might
have rendered him odious.
Our operator also took care to choose his ground for
performing miracles; be con!ltantly refused to operate
his wonders before.,Persons whom he supposed inclined
,to criticise t'Qem. If he sometimes performed them in
the synagogues, and in presence of the doctors, it was ·
·in the certainty that the less fastidious populace, who
believed in his miracles, would take his part, and de-
fend him against. the evil designs of the more acute
apectawrs.•
The apostles of Jesus appear to have been men of
their master'• temper, either credulous or mis-led en-
• !n like manner, some years ago in Paris, on the toinlt
of l)eaCcm Pam, miracles were wrought in presence of very
intelligent persons, who dared neither to criticise nor con-
tradict t.hem, foe fear or: being .maltreatecl by a ob-
ltinate in lieeing prodigies, and whom impostors would not
faned to euit.e agaiDat those who should have pretended to see onl1 .
' .
Digitized byGoogle
thusiasts, adroit cheats, oa· often both together.
There is every reason to believe that Christ, who bad
skill in men, admitted into his intimate confidence
:those only in whom he remarked the most submissive
credulity or the greatest addres!'. On- important oc·.
casions, such as the miracle of multiplying the loavefl,
the transfiguration, &c. we find, as already noticed,
that be used always the ministry of Peter, James, and
John.
It is easy to conceive that his disciples and adhe-
rents were much attached to him, either by the ties
of interest or of credulity. The most crafty perceived,
that their could onlf be ameliorated under tbe
conduct of a man who knew ho'w to impose on the ·
"Yulgar, and make his followers live at the expence of
charitable devotees. Fishermen, formerly to
subsist by a labour painful and often attended with
insuccess, cconeived that it was more advanta'geoue
to attach ther;nselves to a missionary, who made them
live comfortably without trouble. The most cre-
dulous expected always to make a brilliant fortune,
and cx;cupy posts of eminence in the new kingdom
their chief.iniended to establish•. ·
The hopes and comforts of both vanisbed on the
death of Jesus. The most pusilfanimous lost courage,
• It was evidently from earthly or interested motives, and
not heavenly. that the apostles attached themselves to CJuiit. ·
At the last supper tlaere was a strife amongst them wlio
• llaotJd be acCOUJtted tM greaten. " The meanest,H as Billhop
Parker expreseed it, "hoped at least _to have been made lord
mayor of Capernaum.• And even at hill 88Ce11Sion the CJD1J
quelltion hill dlaci.plea asked, was, Lllr4, wilt tAou·11t tAil tittu remw
agtti11 the ltifagdom oflnml V
!' p
•
Digitized by Goog
•
•
f .
but the moat able and subtle.did not "think themselves
under the necessity of abandoning the party. They
· therefore contrived, as we seen, the tale of the
rt1urrection, by the aid of which both the reputation
of their master and/their own fortune were secured.
It also appeafs, that these apostles never sin-
cerely believed their master '"was a God. · The Acts
incontestibly demonstrate this fact. . same
Simon Peter who had recognised Jesus for the Son of
. the Jiving Gad, declared ..in his first sermon, that be
was man. .. Ye know," says be, "that Jesus of Na-
zareth was a MAN whom God hath rendered famous
among you-Yet ye have crucified him-but God
hath raised him up again," &c.• This passage proves
most clearly, that the chief of the apostles dared not
yet .hazard, or was wholly ignorant of the doctrine of
the divinity of Jesus, which was afterwards contrived
by the self-interest of the clergy, and adopted by the
foolishness of Christians, whose credulity was ne.ver
startled by greatest absurdities ; and self-interest
and foolishness hav.e perpetuated this doctrine until
our time. By dint of repeating the same tales for so
long a period, they have succeeded in making people
believe the most ridiculous fables. The religion of the
-children is always regulated by the fancy of their fa- •
therst.
• ·Acta of the Apoetles, ii.
t The word 'Trinity· was .fir# used by Theophilua, bishop
of Antioch, in the year 160, to express periOU, as they
are called, in the Godhead. The passage in the 1st Epistle
of John, c.$. v. 7. never appeared till the 2d edition of Erasmus's
w. T. about 1660. The let edition was printed in UU, and
.the ten aUuded to il Mt ill it.'
..
· by Google. •
,
,
285
It appears, however, that·the apostles ofJesus, de·
prived·of the counsels oftheir master, would not have
-succeeded in procuring their doctrine to be adopted,
if they had not powerful succours after ·his
death, ·and wisely selected for associates men more
adroit thap themselves, and better calculated for the
business. They deliberated together o.n their com-
mon interests ; it was then the Holy Ghost descended
on them ; that is, tney considered on the means of eam-
ing 1\ 'subsistence, gaining proselytes, and increa&illg
the number of their adherents, in order to secure them-
*elves against the enterpri"sea of the priests and gnm-
of the nation, whom the ne'v sect might bave
very much displeased. Theflatter, little satisfied with
having put Jesus ti, death, had also the imprudence
to persecute his adherents. They engaged Herod to
· destroy James the brother ofChrh;t; finally they caused
Stephen to be stoned. These priests and doctors did
· not perceive, that persecution is the surest method of
spreading fanaticism, and that it..lways gives import-
ance to the party' persecuted. ·
Accordingly this persecuting spirit, inherent in the
clergy, .served only to make new partisans to the per-
secuted sect. Bad treatment, imprisonments, and pu-
nishments, always render sectaries more obstinate, and
interesiiog objects to those who witness their suffer.:.
ings. Tortures excite our pity in behalf of the person
lfbo endures them. · Every fanatic that is punished
'is certain,of finding credulous friends, who uid him,
because they persuade themselves it is for be
is peraecuted.
The persecution, instigatep by the prie&.t,s, also
tbe new perceivE>, that it was of utmqst
' p p !l
•
Digitized
286
importance to them to unite their They felt
it necessary to avoid quarrels, and every thing which
'could create division; they in consequence lived in
concord and peace.
· The apostles, now become heads of the sect, ne-
. glected not their own interests. One of the first·facul-
. ties with which the Holy Ghost inspired them, to
profit by devout souls, and engage them to place all
their · property in common. The apostlE's were tbe
depositaries ofthese goods: and had under their orders
ministers or servants, known by the name of deacons,
charged with the distribution of alms. There is every
reason to believe, that these great saints did not forget
tbemselvea in these distributions. It appears also,
that the law for this communion of was observed
with rigour, as we fin,d, in the Acts of the Apostles,
Ananias nod Saphira &truck dead on the prayer ef St.
Peter, for having had the temerity to retain a portion
of own property :-a conduct which would ap-
pear as unjust es barbarous in any other person but au _
apostle of Christ. lt must however be acknowledged,
that the law which obliged- the rich to place their pro-
perty in common, was very important, only to the
apostles, but like\vise for encreasing the sect and gain-
ing partizans. The poor undoubtedly must have been
to join a party, where the rich engaged to lay the .
clot/, for the indigent. Hence it is easy to
how this institution might, without a miracle, strengthen
faith, and daily augment the numbu of the faithful.
Of all the adherents the· new-born sect acquired,
toere was none superior to Saul, aftetwards known. by
&.he name of St.. Paul. Tbe actions and writings as-
to this apostle, exbibjt him as an ambitious,
..
,
o,9;,;zed_by Coogle
287
active, intrepid, and opiniative man, full qf entliU·
sinsm, and capable ofinspiring others with it. Engaged
at first in the profession of a tent-maker, he afterwards
attached·himself to the service of Gamaliel, a doctor of
the law, and rendered services to the priests in their
persecutions against the Christians. There is however'
reason to believe, that the apostles feeling the utility
which a man of. Saul's character might be,of to the
party, profited by some disgust he had taken, in order
to draw him over to their sect; he consented, very
readily conceiving that by the assistance of his talents,
superior to those of his brethren, be might easily suc-
ceed in placing himselfat the head ofa party, to which
he .knew the means of rendering himself necesiary.
He pretended therefore that his 'contersion was the
effect of a miracle, and that God himself had called
him. He caused himself to be baptised at Damascus,
joined the apostles at Jerusalem, was admitted a mem-
ber of their college; and soon made them acquainted
with his talents•. He betook himself to preaching
Christ and his resurrection, and laboured gaining
over souls. His vehement zeal hurried him, wit,hout
fear or hesitation, into quarrels with the priests, always
indignant at the conduct of the apostles; but his per-
secutions rendered him dearer to his party, of which
be became from that time the prime mover and soul.
Often maltreated and banished by the Jews, he con-
jectured that it would be beneficial not to confiqe him-
self to them, but that conquests might likew_ise .be
· made among the heathen. He no doubt knew very well,
that mankind resemble each ether in all s"'perstitio.ns; .
• r
• Acts of the .Apoltlea, c. 9.
o;gitizod byGoogle
•
that they are every where equally curious aoout what-
ever is marvellous; susceptible of fanatici&lQ., lovers
of novelties, and easily deceived.-'Paul, therefore,
tometimes preached to the Jews, and sometimes; on
their refusal, addressed bims.elf to the Gentiles, amt>ng
whom he succeeded in enlislljrpg a considerable num-
ber of recrui!S.
Jesus, born in the bosom of Jud3Um, and k11owing
well the attachment of his fellow-citizens to the law '
of Moses, had always openly declared, that be was
come to "accomplish, and not to destroy it." His
.first apostles were, like himself, Jews, and frequently ·
shewed much attachment (o the rites of their religion.
They took it amiss that Paul their brother would not
aui:Sject the proselytes he made among the Gentiles, to
Judaical usages. Filled with _views more vast than
those entertained. by the other apostles, did not
'!ish to his new converts with inconvenient
ceremonies, such as circumcision and abstinence from
certain meats. · The better to attain his ends, be
'
thought it his duty to neglect which be consi-
dered as trifles, while his brethren regarded them as
most essential•. Paul endeavoured prevail on
• The first proselytes whiCh the apostles made among the
Jews, as we have elsewhere said, were caiJed Nazarene& or
Ebionites, who believed in Jesus without forsaking the Jaw
of Moees on . 'that account or consequence they regarded
St. Paul as an heretic or an apostate. This fact, attested
by Origin. EU8ebiqs, and St. Epiphanius, is important m
siving us a distinct idea of primitive Christianity, which we
tee Uivided. into two sects :hnost as soon as St. Paul had em-
braced it. In fact, this new apostle· very soon separated
IWnaelf from his brethren to preach a doctriDe clift'erent t'ro1ll -
theirs, and openly undermine4 the Judailm wbk:h St.
Digitized by G.oogle
...
'
289
to bear reason : and it was on this occasion be resisted
St. Peter, who did not wish that they should relax in
articles important in his eyes.
This altercation produced a real scbism. Paul left
St. James, and a1l the other heads of the church persisted
in respecting. But u' St. Paul had success among the Gen•
tiles, his party prevailed; Judaism was entirely proscribed,
and Christianity ne;ame. quite a , new . r_eligion, of which
Judaism had been only the figure. Thus St. faul wholly
changed the religious system . of Christ, who had proposed
only to reform Judaism, professed the law of Moses, and
declared himself to have j)Ome on purpose to accomplish, an4
rwt to aholi.rh it. The principal apostles followed the con• ·
duct of their . mjlStei, and shewed themselves much attached
to the law and usages of their fathers. St. Paul, · notwith-
.standing their protestations,_ took ·a different course; he ·dis-
played a contempt or indifference for the legal ordinanoee,
to which, we however observe, he, through policy, sometimes
subjected himself. Thus we find he circumcised T.il:nothy, .
and performed Jewish in the temple of Jeru-
salem. .
Not content with decrying the law of Moses, St. Paul, by
his own confessioti, preached a gospel of his own. He Myt
positively, in his epistle to the Galatians, chap. i. 11, &c.
"That the gospel :which I preach is not after men," and
that he had received it by a particular revelation' of Jesut
Christ. He speaks likewise of his quarrels with the other
Jaeads of the sect; but his diSciple St. Luke Passes over these
Yer'f slightly in the Acts, which .ue much more the .A.ctl of
Paul than the Acts of the Apostles. It appears evident,
that he embroiled himself with his brethren, the partizans 0 r
the circumcision, and founders of the Nazarenes or Ebioru"tes,
i. ·e. reformed Jews converted to Jesus. · They had a gospel
little conformable · to ·that of Paul, as they combined the law
ef .Christ with that of Moses. S!: ,St. JUIItin, St.
Epiphanius, Eusebius, Theodoret, · and St. Augustine, agree
in telling ua, that these Ebionites, or Jews, re-
,arded Jesus u a • "mere ·man, eon of Joseph and Mary,
Digitized by Goog,le
290
his brethren to preach the Judaical gospel or circum.
cisiun, whilst he preached his own in Asia Mitior and
in Greece, sometimes to the Hellenistic Jews, whom
he found established there, and sometimes to the idola·
trous Greeks, whose language, though unknown to
tbe other apostles, Paul was acquainted with. His ·
mission bad a success which far surpassed that o.f his
brethren; in so much that we may fairly regard Paul
as the true founder of the Christian religion such as it
is at this day. If we have recourse to the Acts of the
Apostles, we perceive in this new preacher an activity,
a warmth, a vehemence,and an enthusiasm well adapted
fo communicate itself. The misgionaries he formed,
spread his doctrine to a great distance. The gospel of
the apostle of the Gentiles prevailed over the gospel of
the Judaizing apostles; and in a short time there were
a great number of Christians in all the provinces of
the Roman empire.
To a miserable people, crushed by tyrat1ts and op- ·
pressors of every kind, the principles of the new sect
bad powerful attractions. Its maxims, which tended
to introduce equality· and a·community of goods, were
calculated to entice persons despised. Its promiSes
flattered miserable fanatics, to whom announced
tbe e.
nd of a perverse world, the approaching arrival
of Jesus, and a kingdom wherein abundanee and hap-
to whom they pve the name of Son of God, only on accotmt
of his virtues.• From tbia it is evident that it waa St. Paul
who deified Jesus and abolished Judaism. The Paulites, become
tm! strongest, prevailed over the Ebionites, or disciples ol
the apostles, and treated thein as heretics. Hence we see
it is the religion of St. PaUl, and 'not that of Jesus
.which at preeent subai.sts.
Digitized byGoogle
'
291
piness would -reign. To be admitted there, they merel1
.tequired of the proselytes u to believe iu Jesus Christ,
nod be·baptized." As for the austere niaxims of the
Christian sect, they were not of a nature to disgust
miserables, accustomed from their situation to sutler,
and to experience the want of the conveniences of
Its dogmas, fe\:v in the were readily
adopted by ignorant men, fond of wonders, whom their
own mythology disposed to t·eceive the faules ofChris•
tians :• besides, their own preachers wrought mira·
•
• .AD superstitions have resemblances and affinities. The
heathens perceived in their religion circumstances
to • Christianity. They had Sibyls, oracles, and predictions.
'rheir mythology exhibited gods dethroned and replacing one
another. There we see gods persecutl.>d, exiled, and put to
death ; an Osiris killed by Typhon, and raised again from
the dead ; an Apollo expelled from heaven ; an Adonis, &c.
We· especially ·find many points of conformity between Escu..
lapius and Jesus· Christ. The heathen god was son of Apollo
and the maid Boebias ; 'and, like Je91.ts, performed a great
number of mkaculous cures. He was punished and -thundei-
struck by Jupiter, for having raised the dead and restored them
to'a better life. After liis death, he too went and rejoined. tlie god
his father. .
The fathers of the church have found striking
confomiities between Jesus and Prometheus, who was called
The wildom of the father. He was punished by Jupiter for
bavmg saved the hulll8ll race, who were on the point of being
precipitated into Tartarus. Suidas says, that they gave
Prometheus a surname, which s1gnifies he wlw died for' the
peqple. He wu crucified on Caucasus, and Tertullian speaks
of crollleS found there. His blood produced a plant, which
rendered invufuerable. See :the treatise of. M. <Ie RondeJ,
intitled De Ia 6Uper.rtiticm (on superstition), Amsterdan:'
l681J, l8mo. p. llS-118. This author also ijiat
QQ
o;gitizedbyGoogle •
•
clea, which did not permit them to doubt thosetaid to
have been performed by Jesus. There is, therefore,
reason to presume, that different missionaries,in emu·
lation of one another, took care to compose romances,
en histories of Christ, wherein they related a great
number of prodigies calculated to make their hero be
revered, and to interest the veneration of the faithfuL
In tbis manner the different collections. known by the
name of Goapels, seem to have framed, wherein,
along with very simple facts which might have really .
occurred, we find many relations tbat appear credible
only to enthusiasts aoct fools. These histories, com-
posed by diiferent hands, on·traditions little uniform,
and by.authors of very different charaeters, are qot
much in harmony :. hen<:e the -.ant of conformity ia
the. relations of our enngelitts, which hat been
: queotly ndt1ced in the coutse .of this wotk. There
was, as we hne elsewhere remarked., a nat number
tlte Jaeathene had 8&1De iclea8 of the Trlaifl. TJae aame pi
was styled in heavea, lfen:ury eD eeila, ani Plllte
in helL See p. 106. Mercury is called Hermee· In
wbieh signifies intnprder ; this god and son of i8
oftlen ·called tlte word Tbe DlJ&Wry fll the Tri-
nity is owing w Plato, who of the gootlfteu, toUtioln, aBd pftl«-
of God, ntade three h!JPOI#iiiN, daat these divifie
attributes. See P/4tonimfe detloile, by Souverain, a
8To. 1100, p. 60.
In fact, we know that the beathellfl admitted a hell ft
Tartarus, a last judgment, gerili, angels, delllo1ls '
p/wle1 or and a fablea, analosoaa to
tiloae of Christians. Several of their pbiloeopben have 1Je.
in the ewl of tile world ; and that dectrme, acconlil1g to
t.ctantiua,. wonderfully favoure4.the fi dle go.pel.
Digitized byGoogle
,
,
of gospels in the first ages of the chu1·cb ;• and out of
these the council of Nice chose only 'four, to which
thf!y gave the divine sanction.
We shall nat here examine whether .these gopels
really belong the authors to whom they are ascriLed.
The opiuion which attributes them to their putative
writers, might have been founded at first on some tra-
dition, true or fal11e, which existed in the time-of the
wuncil of Nice, or whic;:h the fathers of that council
had an interest in sanctioning. We shall only Temark,
that it is difficult to persuade ourselves, without
that tbe gospel of St. John especially, filled with Pla-
tonic Qotions, could, be composed by the son of
dee; by a poor fisherman, who, perhaps, incapable or
writing, and even. reading, could not be acqiJaintetl
with the philosophy of Plato.t
Wbatever'opil)ion may be formed as to this, we find
the mystical and marvellous philosophy of Plato
duced early into Christianity, which .agreed in
•.see Appendix tbr a lilt Olthese goapele.
t Frcnn the infancy of Chris6anity' there have been peo.o
.ple, who ha:ve denied the authenticity of ·the geapels. M-
rim accused them of being filled ! with falsehoods. The
Aloges and Theodotiana rejected the gospel according to St.
John, which they regarded as a tissue of lies. 1 See Tillimont
Memoirs, tome 2. p. 206. St. .Epiph. Hternis. .u. TDJi.,
mont. t. 2. p. .t.SS. St. Augustin in his Confmions, L '1. c. 9.-
ays, that ·he had found in the Platonista the whole beginning
of the gospel of St. John. OrigeR (contra Cellum) informs
•that this heathen reproached Christ with having taken from
Plato the finest muim.s, which the gospel attributes to hbn,
and among otMra the one which ll&JIJ that " it is more easi fOr '
a C8Jilel.to go tJuoougb tM eye of - fur a rich mante be
eaved.''-1. 6. · ·
.oigitizedbyGoogle ·
I ' '
294:
several respects with the tenets heldby the followers
of that eminent p'hilo:;opher; while, on the other band,
his perple-xed philosophy must also have easily amal-
with principles of the Christian sect.
This analogy introduced into the religion ofChristiaus
the notions of Spiritlllllltl}, Trinit!J, and the Logos,· or
Word, besides a multitude of magical and theurgical
ceremonies, which, in the hand:; of the priests of Chris-
tianity, have become m!Jsleries, or sacraments. On
reading Porphyry, Jamblichus, and particularly Ploti-
nus, we are surprised to hear them speaking so fre-
quently in the same style a's our These
marks of resemblance drew several Platonists over to
tbe faith, who among the doctors dfthe church.
Of this numher were St. Clement of Alexandria, St.
lreneus, St. Justin Martyr, Origen, &c. Platonism
may indeed regarded as the source of the principal
dogmas and mysteries of the Cbristianreligion.•
• Those who doubt the truth of this 881ertion, have Ollly
to read the works of the di.eciples of Plato, who were all
superstitious. persona and Theurgiata, ideas are sufficiently
analogous· to those of Christians. We find indeed these writings
filled with receipts to make the gods and good genii descend,.
and to drive away the bad, &c. See particularly ,P/JJtoninne devoile.
Tertullian reproaches the heretics of his time with having wandered
astray in order to introduce Platonism, Stoicism, and Dialectics into
Christianity. Yiderint qui Stoilmm et Platonicum, et Dialeciicum
Christiani.smum protulerunt. Tertull. de pneacription. : adv-.
hlerea. c. 3. It was evidently the mixture of the unintelli•
. gible doctrine of Plato, with the Dialectics of ,Aristotle,
which rendered theology so senseless, disputable, and
fraught with aubtilties. The cardinal Pallavicini acknow·
ledges, that " without Aristotle the Christians would have
1'1'8llted a great number of articles offaith."
'
.I
• I
295
The austere and fanatical lives of Christiana must
! also have.favourably disposed a grent num bt-r of Stoics
in behalfof the sect, who were accustomed to r11ake a
merit of despising objects desir,able to men, de-
priviug themselves of the comfort11 of life, and braving
aftliction and death. ' We accordindy find a great
number of enthusiasts tinctured with these u1axims in
the Christian religion. This fanatical way of.thinkiog
was very necessary to the first Christ1ans, in tht- midst
of the crosses and persecutions which they suffered at
first on the part of the Jews, and thereafter on the
part of the emperors and grandees, incited hy the hea-
then priests. The latter, according to the cmtom of
the priesthood in all countries, made a very cruel \far
on a sect who attacked their gods, and menaced their
with a general desertion. The universe w"aa
of the impostures and exactions of these priests,
their costly sacrifices, and lying oracles. Their kna-
veries had been frequently unveiled, and the new
sect tendered to mankind a worship less expensive, and
which, without being addressed so much to the eyes
as the worship of was better adapted than the
other to set imagination at work, and. excite en-
thusiasm. ,
Christianity was moreover flattering and consolatory
to the wretched ; it pla<fed all men on the same level;
humbied the rich. and was anoouuced as destined for
the poor through preference. Among the Romans.
slaves were in some measure excluded from religion ;
and .it might .have been said, that the gods did not-con-
cern themselves with the ho,nage of these
beings. The poor, besides, had not wherewith to
satisfy the rapacity of Pagan priests, who, like ourt,
Digitized byGoogle
,
996
did nothing without money. Thus slaves aod periODs
in misery must b,ve been strongly attached to a sys.
tem, according to which all men are equal in the eyes
of the Divinity, and that the have better
right to the favours of a suffering and coutemned God.
than persons temporally happy.
The priests of Paganism therefore became
at the rapid progress of the sect. The government
was at the clandestine·assemblies which the. -
'Christians held. Tbey were believed to be_ the ene·
mies of the because they contin.ually re(used
to offer sacrifices .to the gods of the country for tlleir
prosperity. Even tbe /people, ever zealous, believed
them enemies oftheir gods, because they wou!d not
join in their worship. They treated the Christians as.
Atheists and impious persons, because· did not
-conceive what could be the invisible objects of their
adoration ; and becaqse they took offence at the mys..
saw them celebratins in the greatest.
seerecy•. The Christians, thus loaded with the pulr
lie hatred,. very.soon became its '!ictims • they were
. • We mar see 6-qm. tlle apo1ogies of St. Justin, Tatian._
Athenagoraa, Tertullian, 8lJ(1 Arnobius, that the most abo-
millable crimea were imputed to tbe first Cbriat.iaqp, such 11
eating Httle children, being irreligious and aacrilegious, ,eofft.
ndtt:iQg incontinences and inceat iB their noctumal u.emblie-.·
It. was pmendecl that they futened a d9g to a candlestict,
• when by means of this the light waa extinguished,
leXdl coupled promi.ecuoualy. These opinions, spread abroai
11111011g the people, irritated them against the
whOm ·they regarded as the c:aUae of tbe wrath of goda,
and of the public calamities. We ·accordingly aee that, ena
unlier the miJdst emperon. the popular i4ry klndhwl .per·
..
'•
o;gitizecrby Google
persecuted: and pe:secutimi, as it always happent,
renderedthem moreopiniative. Enthusiasm more and
more enflamed their they made it a glory to
resist the efforts of tyrants; they even went so far as
to brave punishment!', and concluded with be--
lieving, that the happiness was to perish under..
their severities. In this they flattered with
resembling the Son of God, and were persuaded, that
by dying for his cause, they were certain of reigning
with b,im in heaven.
In consequence of these fanatical ideas, so flatterinj.
to vanity, martyr1om became an·object of ambition to ·
6lany Chtistial!s. Independent of the heavenly re'•
-ards, which they believed assured to tqose who suffet-
ed with constancy, and perished for religion, they saw
them esteemed, revered, and carefully attended to,
during' their lives, while honours, almost divine, were
decreed them after death. On the contraJy, those or
the Christian community, who had the weakness to
lhrink from tortures, and renounce their religion, were
scoffed at, despised, and regarded as infamous. So
many motives combined, contributed to warm the ima-
ginations of the 'faithful, already sufficiently agitated
by notions of the approaching end of the world, the
coming of Jesus, his happy reign. and impressed with
tbe faoatical .no,ions which glut the writings of tile
Cbrlatians. They ·submitted cheerfully to puni.W.
anents, and gloried in their chains : they courted
martyrdom as a favour, and dften, through a blind
zeal, provoked the rage of their persecutors. Tbe,
magistrates by their proscriptions and torture11, caused
'"f the Christians to kindle more and
more. Their courage was besides supported by the
Digitized byGoogle
298
beads of their sect, who constantly displayed the hea•
vens opening to the heroes wbo consented to suffer and
perish for their cause, which they took care- to make
the poor fanatics regard as the of God himself.
A martyr, at all times, is merely the victim of the en•
thusiastic or knavish priest who has been able to Me•
duce him.•
Men are always disgusted with those who 1,1se vio·
lence; they conjeeture that they are wrong, and that
those against whom they commit violence have reason
on their side. Persecution will ever make partisans to
·the cause persecuted: and those to which we allude.
tended the more to confirm Christians in their religion.
The spectators of their sufferings interested for
them. They were cu•rious to know the principles of a
sect which drew on itself such cruel treatment, and
infused into its adherents a courage believed to be su-
pernatural. They imagined that such a religion could
be the work of a God only; 'its partisans appeared ex-
traordinary men, and their enthusiasm became conta-
gious. Violence served only to spread .it the more.
and, according to the language of a Christian doctor,
" the blood of ·the martyrs became the seed of the
church."
• Martyr in Greek signifies witness. But, with the ex-
ception of the a)>Ostles, (whose actioill!l have transmit-
ted.' to us only by the forgers of legends), what kind of t,es.
timony could men, who had never seen Jesus, bear him, and
who could know him only from the stories told them by
preachers, who had what they themselves knew of him only '
by a very. suspicious tradition ? A martyr is in general only a
ibol, duped by another fool, who was the dupe of a knave,
whose object was to establish a aect, and who bimlelf freq'Uelrtlr
wu punilhed for his projects I!
oi.gitized byGoogle
299
The clergy would fain make the 'Propagation of
·Christianity pass for an _
evident miracle of divine om-
nipotence; wbile it was owing solely to natutal
inherent in the human mind, tbe property of which it
\a to adhere strenuously to its own way of thinking;
harden itself against violence; applaud itself for its
pertinacity i admire courage in others ; feel an interest
for those who display it; and suffer itself to be gained
- by their enthusiasm.· A little reflection wnl show that
the obstinacy of the martyrs, fin from being a sign of _
tbe divine .protection, or ofthe goodness of their cause,
can be onlv the effect of occa-
eioned by the lessons of their fan,atical or
deceitful priests.• What conduct more 1extravagant
• • The learned. H. Dodwell · Jw written two copious (ije..
llertations on the martYrs: the one to prove that they were
aot. eo numerous as is commonly imligined ; and the other
to demonstrate that their COt18Uf1cy can be ascribed only
to verr natural cause& Bodwell'.s Dissertationes · Cypri.,
aniae, in Svo, Oxonhe, l6ll-'. It cannot be denied, that the
hDzy · of martyl'dom wal an epidemical disease among the
fil'lt to which their spiritual physicians were obliged
_.to apply remedies, as these wretched beings were guilty -of
Many of the primitive Christians, instead of .fl9ifi{J as the
ppel directs, not OBly .ran voluntaiily to execution, . but
pMYoked their to do them that favor. Under Trajan..
all the Christians .in a city of Asia came in a body to the
proconsul, and otfered themselves P> the slaughter, · which
made him· cry, « 0 ! . ye unhappy people, if· ye have a mind
to die, have ye npt halters and precipices enough to end
your lives, but ye ·muat come here for executioners." Tertul.
. ad 8cap. c. 5. p. 11. Fleury's Manners. of the Christians, &c. '
This was a gener'al practice under , the ..Antonini. Marcus
Antoninue severely re1lected on the obstinacy of tile Chje-o
R R
1gitized byGoogle
· I
300
than that of a sovereign, who, ab1e and without cffu·
sian of blood to extend his should prefer to do
it by the massacre of the faithful of his subjects?
Is it not annihilating the divine \yisdom and goodnes9 ·
to a!;sert, that a God, to whom every thin& is pos-
sible, among so_many ways which he may have hart
to establish his religion, will venture upon that of
making its' dearest friends victims to the fury or
its crueflest enemies? · Such are the notions whkh
Christia'"'nity presents; and it 'is easy to perceive that
they are the necessary consequences of a fundamental·
absurdity, on which that religi()n is It
maintains, that a just God did not wish to chuse any
other way to redeem guilty men, than that of making
tians In thus running headlong to death ; aRd St. CYJ'lrilm
laboured hard to combt those 'who were ·s0 unh.appy ae · to
escape the crown of martyrdom. The enemieS of JuDaa tJJe
aPostate even admit that the Christians of his time did every
thing tlx'ey could to provoke that emperor to put them to
death. Dr. Hickes, a celebrated ptoteitant divine, goo& so
far as to say that the Christians " wete not illegally per.se-
cuied by Julian."-8ee his AnsJVer to Juliatt, c. ii. &c.
I After · all, it will be found that every violerft· pliBSion ha its
martyrs. Pride, vanity, prejudice, love, patriotism, and
even vice it8elf, produces martyrs ; ot at lesst a contempt of
every kind of danger. Is it then surprising that enthulliaal
fanaQ.cism, the strongest passions of mankind, have· so
often enabled men, inspired with the hopes they give, to face,
and despise death ? Bestlles, if Christian!! Can boost a cata-
logue of martp-s, Jews can do the 84IDe. The unfortunaat
Jews, condemned to the flames by the inquiSition, were
martyrs to their religion ; and their fortitude proVes as much in
their favour as that of the Christians can dQ in favo'W' of
C\t;ristianity. · If martyrs demonstrate·the truth of a religion <1E
wher,e are· we to look for the true one ·?-Beulangtt.
1 Ruiru rif
' '
....
' Digitized
G.
•
SOl
his dear innocent S{)n be put to death. According to
•ucll principles, it can excite no surprise that so uo-
reasonal:!le a God should wish to convert the heathen,
!lis enemies, by the of Christians, his children.
Tl;lougb these absurdities are believed, such as do nqt
possess the holy blindness of faith cannot comprefteQfl
:wby.tbe SonofGod, hAving already shed· his blood for
t.be of men, was not a sufficient sacrifice?
why, to effect tbe conversion of the world, there
W;l8 still a for the blood of an immell!le num-
ber of martyrs, whose merits must have been undoubt-
mucb less than those of Jesus ? To re1.110lve tbe&e
difficulties, theologians refer us to the eternal decrees,
the wiadom of which we are not permitted to criticiae.
Tbis is sending us far bapk indeed ; yet notwithstand,.
iog the solidity of the aoswer, the incredulous persist
in saying that their limited understandings can neither
find justice, nor wisdom, nor goodness, in eternal de.
crees wb.icb cGUid in such a manner eft'ect the salva•
tion of human race.
Persecutions were not the only means which served
to .P,ropagate the religion ofcbristiana. .The preachers,
zealous for the salvation of souls, or rather desirous to
e&tend their own power over the minds of men, and
strengthen their party, inherited from. the Jews the
passion of making proselytes•. This passion suited
• The missions have for their particular object to ·
the power of the clergy. The church sends enthusiasts or
knaves to th& extremitieS of the earth to beat up for subjects.
The missionaries there traniact their business vastly weD,
and· open to themselves new branches of commerce, while
they act "'th prudence. The insolence and imprudence of
tile Jesuits haYe oCcasioned the proscription · of the Christian
Digitized byGoogle
30!·
· presumptuous fanatic•, who were persuad-ed, that
alone possessed exclusively the divine .favour : it was
unknown to the heathens, who were accustomed to sufa -;:;
fer evety one peaceably· to. adore his gods, providing
that his worship did not disturb the public tranquila
.
Prompted. by zeal, the Christian missionaries, not-
. withstanding persecutj,ons and dangers, spread them-
selves, with an ardour unparalleled,whereverthey could
penetrate, in order tp convert idolaters, and· .bring
back strayed sheep to the fold of Jesus;
naturally merited the recompence of very great succest
Men, whom their idolatrous priests neglected, were
flattered with seeing themselves courted, and becoming.
tbe object of the disinterested cares of personag<!s,
who through pure for them c:\ine from
afar, and through the greatest perils, -to bring them
consolation. In consequence of these dispositions,
they listened favourably to them ; they showed kinda
ness to so obliging, and were enchanted with their
doctrine and .relations. Many adopted their lessons,
placed themselves. under their guidance, and found
reli8ton in Japan, China, &e. Our mietionaries are
where well received in tbe besinuing, and in geDera1 suft"er
. martyn}om only when their real designs are diacovezed.
Xambi, emperor fL China, asked the Jesuit miaionariea at
what would aay if .he would ·IMIIld mi.88ionariea to
their nation ? The revolts excited by the Jesuits in Japaa
and Ethiopia are well knoWn. .A. holy missionary has beea
heard to aay, that without mwkeu, misaionaries· c:ould never
mik& proaelytes. It remains to be -eeen whether the pJ'Ooo
poeed missioee to Hindostan under the eanctioD of the Britmh
government will find it·neceaaary to emplor thllecarMI
Digitized
'
' ·
803
tbat their and dogmas were superior to those
wbicb lwl preceded them.
Thus by and without a miracle, Christianity
planted colonies, more or less considerable, in every
part of the Roman empire. They. were directed, and
' governed by· impect'ors, ()'l)traters, or bi$/wps,• who, in
spite of the dangers with which they were menaced,
laboured- -obstinately, and without intermission, in
.augmenttng the number of their disciples, that is, of
slaves devoted to their holy willa. Empire over opi-
nions was always the most unbounded. As noth.ing ·
bas greater over the minds of the vulgar than ·
religiou, Christians every where displayed an unli-
mited submiasion to their spiritual sovereigns, on whose
laws they persuaded themselves that their eternal· hap·
piness depended. Thus· our missionaries. converted
into bishops, exercised, with consent of their disci-
ples, ao spiritual magistracy and sacred jurisdiction
which, in the end, placed them not only above other
priests, but also made them respected by, and necea·
• Fleury informl us tLat in the earlJ periods Chri8-
tianity « aD the clergy, eTeD to the bishope, lived after a poor, .
at leut a plain and ordhwy manner... St. Jerome bigbly
cDaapproved the diatinctione of bishopa and priests, or curates.
He 888el'tell that, IIQCOrdiog to St. Paul, they were the I8D1e
thing, " tin by the instiption of the devil there .were deati-
utiona ·in religJon." At day bishops. who do uothirig,
ei!Joy great revenues, while bmumerable curates who labour
are dying for hunger ; and while lazJ priests, thole blood·
· IUcll:ers of aodety, thus wallow in .an abudanee ahameful to
the states br whom they are tolerated, the man of talents,
the manof acienee, and the brave soldier &It! suft'ered to
in btdigenee, and ICarcely exist 01\ the mentiecellariet of life.
.,.
.....__,,..
...,
.... -- .. --- - - • .
o;g,hzed byGoogle
I
j
aery to, tbe temporal power. Priacet have always
employed religion and its ministers with success in
cruahiog the people, and keeping them under tbe
yoke. Impostures and delusions are of no use to ao-
vereigna woo go'OU'n, but tbey are Yery useful to thoee
who (yrmmise.•
• See Appenda, No. III.
• Digitized by Coogle
CHAPTER XVIII.
,
I '
.&CCOlJNT OF CRRISTIANITY FROM CON&T.\NTINR TO Til£ ,
PRESENT TIME• .
· AT the end of the three centuries, we fiud Chris-
tiaoity, advanced by all those means, 'become a for-
D)idable party in the Roman empire. The sovereign
power acknowledged the impossibility of stifling it;
nnd Christians, scattered in great numbers through all
the provinces, formed an imposi-ng combinati<m.•
Ambitious chiefs incessantly wrested from one another
the ·right of reigning over the wrecks of an enslaved
republic: each sought to increase his own strength,
and acquire an advantage over his ri.vals. It was in
these circumstances that Constantine,, to strengthea
himself first against Maxentius, and thereafter against
Licinius1 thought it his interest, by a stroke of policy.
· to draw over all the Christians to his party. For this
purpose he openly favoured them, and thereby rein-
forced his army with all the soldiers ofthat numerous
l!l gratitude for the advantages they procilred
.him, be concluded with embracing thei.
r religion, nvW:
• We are, said Tertullian, but of yesterday, and y.et the
world k ·filled with us - your cities, .your houses, your gar-
Jisons, your villages, your colonies, your .very camps, your
tribes, your palaces, your sennte, your courts of justice.....,
A}d ,
Digitized byCoogle
,866
becomo so powerful. He honoured, distinguir.hed,
and enriched the Christian bishops, well assured of
attaching them to himself 'by his liberality to their
pastors, and the favour he shewed them. Aided by
their succours, he flattered himself with the disposal
of the flock.• ·
By this political revolution, so favourable to the
clergy, the bashful · chiefs of the Christi.ans, who
hitherto bad reigned only in secret and without eclat,
sprung out of the dust, and became men of import-
ance. Seconded by a very despotical emperor, whose
interest's were linked with thein, they very soon em-
. ployed their credit to avenge their injuries, and return
to their enemies, with usury, the evils which they bad
received. The unexpected change io the·fortuoe of
the Christians made them soon forget the mild a\ld
tolerating of their legislator. They conceived,
that these maxims, made wretches destit\£e of
power, could no longef suit men supported by sove.
reign; they attacked the temples .and gods of pa-
ganism; their worshippers were excluded from places
ol and the master lavished his favours on tbose
only who consented to think like him, and jtatify his
change by imitating it.t Thus, without any miracle,
• It is evident that Constantine, notwithatandinB the
eulosfums the have bestowed on him, wu an '
minable prince, stained with the murder of .his wife, his IIOD,
and bis colleague. He sought in vabi for expiation hi the
heathen reJiBion, but found it only in the Chrilt.ian. If he
.wu really a ·CbriatiaD, his example will serve, like mahy
to prove, that ·a person may be at once very devout and verr
wiCked. .
t It ia well eatab&bed, tbf Constantine, his chiJilrtn,
Digitized byqoogle
tbt ·court became Christian, or at least feigned to be
ao, and the desceodan,ts of hypocritical courtiers were
Christians in reality.•
· Even before the time of Constantine, Christianity
bad been rent by disputes, heresies, schisms, and ani·
mosities between the Christian chiefs.t The adhe-
rents of the different doct9rs bad reviled, anatbema-
tised, and maltreated each other without their quarrels
making a noise in the·world. The subtiltie:i of Gre-
' ciao metaphysics, introduced into,the Christian reli•
gion, had hatched an infinity of which bad
not hitherto been attended with any remarkable con•
sequences. All these quarrels bunt forth ,in the reigll
of Constantine. The bishops and champiqns of dif·
ferent parties caballed to draw over the emperor to
their side, and thus aid them in crushing their adver.
aries. At the same time a very considerable party
of Christians; under the banner of the priest A.riu111
,and especially TheodosiUs, used unheatil-of violences in order
tn anniblJate paganism. To COBliuced of·this, we have ·only
to read the code, Xvi. tit. L de Pagani#, Saerificiil, tf
Tnn[llil.
• 'Tis true, aays Fleury, the barbaria.ns were converted ;
the Franca turned Christiana ; and the Gotha and Ulmbarda
became good Catholics ; but they remained barbarians stilL .
. t St. Epiphany, who wrote in the fourth cent1117 of thb
Christian era, informs us, that in his time there w&e alread'
fmu:ICOre hertlies or sects, into which Chrlatiana were di\.
viiled. St. Ireweua, who JiVed in the second century, had,
before him, already refuted a gteat number. S"mce thPn,
have beheid heresieS multiplying in the cli\n-ch without end ; but
this is not surprising :-in works so contradictory, so obscure,
and so absurd, as those of which the Btble is composed, f!'Vf!rj
oDe may ·find whatever he is in ·want of to prop up 1Jitetna the
mo-;t extravagant.
s s
Digitized byGoogle
denied tbe divinity of Jiius. Too little versed id the
principles of the religioa &bat patty bad
but wishing to decide the question, the emperer re.
ferred it to the judgment of th_e bishops. He ·-con-
vened tben1 in t.Jle city of Nice, and the plurality of
auffragea definitively the 1ymbol of fai&h.
Jesus became a God colliYIIItaatial with his FatherJ
tbe Holy Gh9st was likewise a God proceediq from
the two others; finally, t)leae three Gods combined,
made only one God.
Tumultuous clamours made this unintelligible deei..
aion pass, and converted it intct a sacred dogma, not..
withstanding the reclamations of oppof!_eots, who wei'&'
11ilenced by treating them as blaspbemera and heretics.,
The priests who bad the stroageat luags; declared
\herpselves ortlwiloz. The emperor, little acquainted
with the ground of the quarrel, ranged himself w
t:be time on tbei! &ide, and quitted it -ao.
cording as he thought proper to lend an ear sdmetime&
to bishops of one party, and to those of
auother. 'fhe history of the church informs us,
CoQIItantine, whom we bere see adherio1 to the
tion of council of Nice, made the orthodox aad
the heretics alternately his senrities.
after many years. an.d even ages of
disputes, the bishops of Christendom have agreed in·
regarding Jesus as a true God. They felt in the end
that it w!-• important for them to have a God for their
founder-a tenet which could not fail to render.
owri authority more respected. They maintained, that
this was derived from ttte who held
theirs directly from Christ. that ia, from God himself.
It woul4 be criminal to doubt tr\l'b .of
Digitized byGoogle
.. .
•
Oia bpinicttt1 tboup many are not yet con•
vinced t>f it, aad Y.enture to appeal to the decision · of
iho-Uf\iversal churcb.•
.· biahopa assembled at Nice, decided also, as we
hiTe elaewllere relared. ori the authenticit_y of the gos-.
pcfil al)d books ordained to eerve for a rule to Chris-
tialls. It is then to theae doctors, as has been already
temark;el!, that Ch.ristians owe tbeir faith, whicp how•
eyer waa afterwards frequently shaken by disputes•
heresiea, and wars, and even by assemblies of bishops,
who often annulled what other assemblies of bisbopa
, had decreed in tbe most solemn manner. To reckol\
Cenatantine to our time, the interest o'r the beads -
af the oburch dictated every dec;ee, and formed the
rule, by whicli dogmas were establis!led, often wholly
ueknawn to of their religi.on'. The uni·
\ferae became the arena of the passions; disputes, in..
and crueltiea of these holy gladiators,
• Except the English, all reject Epil/!04
F!l• .and regard it as an usurped power. Among the Catholics,
the Jansenist& think the same, which is the true cause of the
enmity the Pope and bishops display against them. It appear.
Jerome was, on this point, or the opinion or ihe . .
- Ttt we ste St. Pll'GI at 1i.r8t much ocetipled in advancing the
J4Ncopal .dipity. • St. I8naW. of Antioch, .pie of the
apostles, insinuates in his epistles, the high opinion wbich the
Christians ought · to have of a biShop ; and the very antient
aut!wr of the Apostolic Constitutions, I. 1. e. 9, openly declates,
that a hU/wp u a god on .arjh, destined to rule over aU mn, priut1,
king1, ·and m/igilf.rate1. Though these ConstitutionJ are reputed
Apocryphal, tlle bishoP. have confonned their conduct to them
more fhap. to the gospe1, wherein Jesus, f8l' from as- '
prea:optives tq bishops, declares, that in his kin!dom there
wlll be neitherfir8t nor last. · ·
r
Digitized byGoogle
•
•
810· .
treated each other with the utmolt barbarity. Teni•
poral sovereigns. united in interest with tpiritual cbief1,
or blinded by them, thought themselves at all times
obliged to partake of their fury. Prin_ces seemtd to
bold the sword for tbe sole purpose of cutting the
throats of victims pointed out by tbe priests, who
'influenced their These blinded- be- ·
lieved they served God, or for tbe welfare o(
their kingdoms, by espousing all the passion\.of tbe
priests, who were become the most arrogant, the most
1 'Vindictive, the most covetous, and the most flagitious
or men.• /
W to s:1all not enter into a detail of all the quarret.
which the Christian religion has produced.t shall'
merely observe, that: they were continual, and hue
been attended with consequences so deplor..
able, that nations have had reason more than a hundred
• times evf!ry century, to regret the peaceful
and tolerating i(lolatry of their ancestors. Tbe gos-
pel, or tht glad tiding•, constantly gave the signal for
the commission ofc1·imes. THE caoss WAS TW£ a.hr-
, '
lf'ER UNDER WHICH MADMEN ASSEMBLED TO GLUT'
THE EARTH WITH BLOOD. The will of Heaven was
understood by nobody ; anJ the cler:gy dispute..! without
end ou the manner of explainiug oracles, which tbe
Deity had himself come to reveal to mortale. It was
• See Appendix IV.
t Their Jisputes were endleu, and tiom disputing they
often fell into and secliti0111. The clergy and monb
who were the most zealous, broke forth into tbe sreateat
and when the monb, More all others, espouled the
• qua.-rel, there were no methods too Jawte. or rioJeDt fiJr
l'levr!J.
, o;gitizedbyCoogle
su
.•lways indispensable to take a side in the most unintel·
ligible quarrels: neutrality was regarded as impiety.
The party for which the prince declared, was alway's
aod on that account believt:d it bad a rigbt
to exterminate all others; tbe orthodox in the churcll
-were those who had the power to exile, imprison, and
destroy their · e
· The bishops, whom the puissance of an emperor
.had raised from the dust, soon became rebeJiious sub-
jects ; under pretence of maintaining their spi·.
ritual power, laboured to be independent of the sove-
reign, and even the laws of society. Tiiey maintained
that princes themselves, being subjects of Christ,
ougllt to be subjected to the jurisdiction of his re-
presentatives on earth. Thus the pretended suc-
cessors of some 6.shermen of Judea, to whom Con.
atantine bad stretched forth his hand, arr<:>gated to
themselves the right of reigning over kings; and in
. this way the kingdom of heaven served to conquer th.e
kingdoms of the earth.
Hitherto the Christi.an sect; spread throughout the
bad been governed by bishops or chiefs inde·.
pendent of and perfectly equal as to ju-
risdiction. ' · This. made the church an' ariatocratical
republic; but its government soon-became monarchial,
aud even despotical. Tbe respect which was always
• Lucifer Calaritan'lll, then a most orthodox biShop, ia
..,eral discouraee addreseecl to the son or Constantine, did
llot ecruple to teD the emperor himself that it was the duty or
the ·orthodox to kill Constantius- on account of his Arianism;
which he c:alled Idolatry ; ·atd for this he quoted Deui:. 'm. 6.
and 1 Maccab. i. tS, to v. t9 of e. ii. See Jolmlon's A.nawer to
Hk.k't CODStaDt. p. 16, &c.
Digitized byGoogle
311
for Rome, the capital-of tbe world. seeoteci
&o give a kir{d of superiority to the biibop or spiritual
head of the Christians "established there.• His bJe..
tbren, therefore, frequently .shewed a deferea'» to
bim, and occasionally consulted him. Notbing more
wu wanting to the a111bition of the bishops of Rome.
• 9r to advance tbe right they aFrogated of judging their-.
brethren, and tacite them to declare tbemaelvea tbe ·
monarchs of tbe Christ-ian church. .A very apocrypbt.l..
traditjpn.had m11de St. Peter travel to Rome, and bad.
also made this chief of tbe apostles eatabliab. his sea
il.that city.· Tile Roman bishop tlletefore
to have succeeded to the rights of Simoa Peter, to
whom Jetus in the gospel had entru.ted mere partie..,_
·lady tbe care of fee<Aiag his sheep. He accorciingly
uswned the pompous title of succesaor of St..
bishop, and 'ficar of Jes(IS C!u:iet.t It is
• Several authors have denied, an!l with. reason, .that
St. Peter ever set a- foot in Rome. In the Acts of the. Apos.-
tles no mention is made ot this unfess we suppose
that Luke has omitted to speak of St. Peter, ·wl'to was a· N&'
zarine or Ebionite, tor the of attribtititlig to St. Paal
IU muter• die conversi()Jl of the tapi.t.aL See what halt beell
said before..of. the aquabbles of St. Paul wltll the
apostles. If St. Peter had been at Rome, his gospel would
bate been to yield to that of the apostle of' genti1es,
more accommodating to the heathens, as. it dispensed with
eircun}cision. It may be presumed that St. PauJ waa
tli.e first pope.-Hist. des Paj>es, tom!! 1. Leftres et Mohtimens
aes P'eres Apostoliques, par .Al>raham Rucliat, in Svo, teyae, t1as:
fr. Spanheim,:filli desserta€
. iv. tudg. .Batav. 1619.
'
it i( .• -.st (JID-i.d.
The RomiaA church gaTe. -.e -clluitilll tf Rt
. .
.• Digitized by Googk
true, tbese·titles were ofteri co..ntested with him by the ,
erieutal too proud to bow willingly under the
yoke of their brother ; but by degrees, tbroogb dinl
of artifices, intrigues, and frequently those
who enjoyed the eee of eter prosecuting their
projeet with ardour, succeeded in getting .themselvea
acknoWledged in the west u the beads of tbe
chUJCh ;•
Pliaot and submissive at first to aovereigns, whose ·
power they dreaded, they soon mounted on their about..
den; and tr&mp1ed them under their feet, when they
""' themselves eertain of their power over ·the minda
of devotees, rendered frantic by supetlltition. Then
indeed tney threw off the mask, gave to nations the·
aignal _
of rev61t, incited Christians to. their mutual de..
·atruction, and precipitated kings from their tbronee.
To support their pride, they shed oceans of blood t
they made weak princes the vile sport of their par- .
eion, aometimea their victirus &Qd aometimes their
.executioners. Sovereigns, become their nesals, ese.
euted with fear and trembling the decrees Heaven
pronounced against the enemies of tbe holy see, which
had itself the arbiter of faith. In fact, these
faithful in the provinces ; its bishop waa the richest, and even
in the .time the Roman 11ee was the obju:t of'
ambition and contesta of the priests, who aulQDg
fQl' tJle1lock of ,Jeaus.
• To IIUCh • pitch of graadeur tha
period, that.
$t. witll ow of hia to • at the llQJe
-.1 •PttCIII kia WU. ·tlwlt wid& 11ft .own bartdt."-
.••
•
'
Digitized b;Google
814
·inhuman pontiffs immolated to their God a thous&Dd
times more hum'an victims than paganism had.sacri-·
ficecl to all ita divinities. .
After having tucceeded in subduing the bithops,
head of the church. with a view to atablish and pre-
ae"e his empire over the people, inundated the states
of the. princes attached to the sect, with a multitude
ofaubaltem priestsand monks, who acted aa his spies,
his emisn.riea, and tbe organs which be employed in
making known bis.will at a distance, and serving his
ambition. Thus nations were deluged with men use-
less or dangerous. Some, under pretext of attaining
Christian perfection, astonished the vulgar with a kind
of'frantic life, denied themselves the common plea..
suresof existence·
, renounced the world, and languished
in the receues cloister, awaiting the death which
.their disagreeable life must have rendered deairable.
They imagined to please God. by occupying them-
seles solely with prayers, sterile and extravagant
meditations, and rendering tbemselvel the victims of a
destructive fanaticism. These fools, whom Chris-
tiauity eateems, may be considered· as the victims
and martyrs of the higher clergy, who take care never
to imitate them.•
• condemns suicide ; ,a we admire, u mo..
4eJs of perfection, and u p!l'SOD&gel endowed with BUpet.
utural grace, men and w;omen, who,. by penitence and lJen8eoe
less austerities, evidently abridge their days. It is 888erted,
that the religious of Llr Trappe ended their Jives in a few
yean, dying of phthysis. Is it then more criminal in one
to kiD himlelf at once, than to labour ten years at his OWR
deetructioo? If mankind were more COillitt.ent, they would
peroein, that it·ia very ridiculous to condenm a IUlcide,. 11114
Digitized byGoogle
'815
Few people, however, felt themselves inclined to
-aspire to this sublime perfection. Most of the monks;
more indulgent to themselves, were content with re-
nouncing the world, vegetating in aolitude, languish-
ing in an abundant sloth, and living in absolute idle-
ness, at the expence of nations who toit. If some
among them were devoted to study, they employed
themselves only with the vain subtilties of an unintel-
ligible .theology, calculated to incite disturbances in
society, and foment discord. Others more active
·spread themselves the globe: and, under pretence
of preachi.ng the gospel, ·preached up themselves, ttie
interests of the clergy, and especially the submission
due to the Roman pontiff, who was always their true
sovereign. . These emissaries indeed never had any
other country than the church, any other master than
its head, or any other than that of distur?ing
state, in order to advance the divine rights or the
clergy. Faithful in .following the example of Jesus,
:they brought the sword, sowed discord, and kindled
wars, seditions, persecutions, and crusadt>s. trhey
sounded the tocsin of revolt against princes who were
disagreeable or rebellious to the haughty tyrant of the
church; they frequently employed the sacrificing knife
of fanaticism, and plunged it in the hearts of
an4, to make the cause of God prosper, they justified
the most horr.ible crimes, and threw the whole earth
into consternation. _
Such, especially in latter times, were the maxims
'and conduct of an order of monks, who, pretending
I
drag hiJ c:arcue into the street, while they' regard a frantic '
monk. or am enthuaiastic wencbe as saints agreeable to God.
TT
'i
•
8t6.
to walk in the foot,c;teps of Jesus, the nameof
• his Sociei!J. Solely and blindly devoted to the interests
of the Roman pontiff, they seemed to have come into
the world tor the purpose of bringing the universe un-
der hi11 chains. They corrupted the youth, the educa-
tion of whom they wished exclusively to engross ; ·they
strove to restore barbarism, knowing well that want of .
knowledge is the greatest prop of superstition; they ex-
tolled ignorance and blind submis.sion ; they depraved
the manners, and in the1r stead substituted vain usages
and superstitions, compatible with every vice, and -cal-
ttulated to suppre11s the remorse whrcb crime might
produce. They preached up shivery and unbounded
submission to princes, who themselves were their
slaves, and who consented to become the instruments
of their vengeance. preached rebellion and re-
gicide against the princes who refused to bend under
.the odious,yoke of the successor of St. Peter, whom •
they had the effrontery to declare infallible, and who1e
decisions they preferred. far above those of the univer-
sal church. By their assistance the pope became not only
· the despot, but even the true God of the Christians.
. There were persons, however, who ventured to
.protest against the violences, extortions, and usurpa-
tions of this spiritual tyrant. There were sovereigns,
who, to their own rights, ventured to struggle
with him; but, in times of ignorance, the contest was.
always unequal betweeu the temporal and spiritual
power of opinion. At last. preachers, discontented
.with the Roman pontiff, opened the eyes of many;
they pr*;acbed reformation, and destroyed some'abuses
and dogmas which appeared to them the most dis-
g!tsting. . Some princes seized this oppo1tuoity . to
I
Digitized byGoogle
/
•
.._
317
I
break the chains whe,rewitb they had been so long op-
pressed. ·Without re,Pouncing Christianity, which
they always regardeo as a religion wholly divine, they
renounced Romish Christianity, which they considered
as a superstition corrupted through thE! avarice, in·
terest, and the clergy. Content with loP,.
ping off in-this manner so.n e branches of a poisoned
tree, which its bitter should have discovered,
our reformers did not perceive, that even the princi·
ples of a religion, founded on fanaticism and impos-
ture, must .,: necessity alway"s produce fanatics and
knaves. Thev did not observe, that an exclusive .re.-
ligion,-whicb to enjoy alone the approbation
of the Most High, must be from its essence arrogant
and proud, and become .at last tyrannical,
and sanguinary. They did not perceive, that the
mania of pro.selyt.ism,. the pretended zeal for the sal·
vation of souls, and of the priests for dominion
over conscieuces, must, sooner ·or later, create devas-
tation. Christianity ..reformed, pretending to resemble
the pure Christianity 0( the first days of the· cht,trch,
produced fiery preachers, persons illuminated, and
public incendiaries, who, under pretence of establish-
ing the ki11gdom OfChrisl, excited trouMes, massacres,
revolts, and endless disorders. Cbristian princes of'
. every sect, thought themselves obliged to support tbe
decisions of thejr doctors. They regarded as infallible,
- .. opinions which they themselves bad adopted; they en..
forced them by fire.and sword ; and were every where
in confederacy with their priests to make war on all
who did not think like them.•
• The proteatanta laave persecuted, as well as the Romilh
clergy. Calm caused Serretul tQ be bi1mt at Geneva,
Digitized byGoogle
•
,
818
We see, especially, the intolerant and persecuting
spirit reigning in countrie"' which continue subject
tlie Roman pontiff. It was there, that priests, nurtur-
M in the maxims of a spiritual despotism, dared with
most insolence to tyrannize over minds. They bad the
effrontery 'to maintain, that the prince could not, with-
out impiety, dispense with entering into fheir quarrels,
sharing their frenzy, and shedding the blood of their
enemies. Contrary to the express orders of Christ,
the emissaries of the of Jesus preached openly
·in his name persecution, revenge, hatred, and· mas-
sacre.•, Their clamours imposed on sovereigns; and
the least credulous trembled at sight of their power,
they dared not curb. A,superstitious and cow-
ardly policy made them believe, that it was the interest
of the throne to unite itself.for ever with these inhuman
and boisterous madmen. Thus submissive to
the clergy, and making common cause with them, be-
came the ministers of their vengeance, and the execu-
tQrs of their will. These blind princes were obliged to
support a power the rival of their own, but they did not
perceive, that they injured their own authority .by de-
they burned Calvinists at · Paris. .Tile Anabaptists commit,.
ted unheard-of excesses in Gennany. The Engliah liturgy
made Charles I. lose his head. who wanted to introduce it
into Scotlarid. In Holland the Gouui.rists 'warmly persecuted the
Arminians.
• The coatmdicts itself ince1881¥ly : It blows bot aud
cold on the article of toleration, which is vezy coovenient far theo-.
logians, whatever side they take. When their party is the
weakest, they rest on passages which recommend mildness ; but
10 10011 as that party get the upperhand, are the!! authorised
.,. othEI' passagesto Cl'Uih their adYel'l&ries.
o,gitizedbyGoogle.
819
livering up their subjects to the tyranny and extor..
tion·s of a ·swarm of men, whose interest it was to
plunge them into ignorance, incite their fanaticism,
make themselves .master8 of their minds, domineer
over their consciences, and, short, .make them fit
instruments to serve their pride;avarice, revenge, and
obstinacy. By this worthless policy, in the states most
submissive to the spiritual dominion of the Roman
pontiff, the liberty of thinking was proscribed with
fary, activity was repressed, science was punished,
and crushed by the rapacity of the clt>..rgy,
while were neglected, and their place supplied
by traditional observances. Nations vegetated in in·
aetivity; men cultivated only monastic yirtues, grievous
to themselves, and useless to society.• They had no
other impulse than what their fanaticism afforded, and ·
no other science than an obscure jargon of theology.
Their underst_andings bad no .other employment than
endless disputes on mysterious subtilties, unworthy of
rational beings. Those futile occupations engrossed
tbe attention of the most profound genius, whose la-
bours would have been useful; if they had been directed '
to objects reaJiy interesting. ·
Nations were impoverished to foster, in abundance,
• Tbe learaed Abbe Fleury 88ftEi1 u to thele facts, iD IU
M.,.,., de1 Claretitu, partie s. § U. where he· aays, that
CJu;,tio.u ought to oblerw ·ezadl!J w'Mt u practiled ill t'M
twderl!J mona.lterie11 to become lif1mg e:ra.mpk1 of ChrWU..
flt4f'Glii!J. . Thus, by tbia confession, a good Christian is a trUe
monk : now a monk is a citizen dead to ·society. What would
become ofa eounb'y where every bodr should pretend to Chriltiaa
peri!ctioa, and to attain which was their ouly aim ? There-
would be neither mercl)ants, nor eoldiers, nor married persons.
I
Digitized byGoogle
in luxury, and often in drunkenness. legi<lns of tnookl,
priests, and pontiffs, from whOm they deri;ved no real.
benefits. Undef pretence of bestowing stipends on the
interceasors with God, they richly endowed a multi-
tude of drone,., wboee prayers and reveries procured
ooty misery and dissensions. Education, entrusted
tbroughout Christendom to base or ign;)rant .priests,
was calculated to form superstitious persans only, des-
- titute 9f the qualities necessary to make useful citizens..
Tbe instruction they gave Christians, was confined ·to.
, inculcating aogm;ts and mysteries which, tbe latter oe-·
ver could comprehend. Tiley incessantly preached
up evangelical morality; but that sublime· morality
,wbicb all the world estee:ns, and which so few prac-
tice, because it is incompatible with the nature and
wantS of man, did not restrain the passions, or ever .
1 their irregularity of manners. Wben that Stoical .
morality was practi11ed, it was only by some imbecile
fanatics or fiery enthusiasts, whom tbe ardour of their
zeal rendered dangerous ·to society. The saints of
Christianity were either tlie most useless or most flagi-
tious ofmen.
Princes, the great, the rich, and even the heads of
the church, thought themselves excused from t.h.e. ri·
gorous and literal practice of precepts and counsels,
which a God himself had c01ne on purpose to commu-
nicate. They left Cbristian perfection to some miser-
able for whom alone it seemed originally des-
tined. Complaisant guides smoothed for others the
roarls to Paradise, and. without bridling- the passions,
their votaries that it was sufficient to com,e .
' al stated times to confeiS their faults to them, humble
themselves at tbeir_feet, undergo the penances and ee- ·
Digitized byGoogle
' .
82l
•
remonies which they should ilppose, and especially
make donations to the church, to obtain from
God remiasion·of the outrages tbey committed on his
creaturf!S. By these means, in most· Ch•·istian coun..
.tries, people and prince$ openly united with ·
the most bideous depravity of manners, and .often with
tbe blackeat crimes. There were devout tyants and
adulterers, oppressors and iniquitous' ministers, cour-
tiers without morals, and public· depredators all very
devout. There were knaves of every kind displaying
the greateSt zeal for a religion, the ministers of which
imposed easy expiations even on those who violated
-jts most express precepts•.
Thus, by the cares of the spiritual guides of Chris-
tianity .concord was baniabed from states ; princes
sunk into bondage; the people were blineed ; science
was stitled ; nations were impoverished ; true · mora• -
lity was unknown ; arid the most devout. Christians
were commonly devoid of those talenta and virtues
which are indiapeBIIably necessary for the support of
society.
• It is asserted, and repeated every day, that re1igioo i•
neceuary, and that it, is a check. It is nece88¥Y only fD
open our eyes to l?e convinced, that religion among h_!gh and
low, restrains nobody, not even · the priests who preach ana
live by it. The mOlt devout nations of Europe, such as the
Italians, Portuguese, and Spaniaphl, are alike distinguished
by their bisob'J and corruption of inan.ners ; the clergy themaelve.
thew them . the example of perfidy, cruelty, and ,the most
unbridled Jicenqoumess. To restf!lin men, there ia need neither
·of falsehoodS nor fables ; but of good laws, good education.
cultivated reuon, talents, science, good nwards, tnd
equitable pwrlshmentl. . As chimeras ·are opposed to the
megularities of mankind, they are not capable ofvanquiahing their
imllinatlODJ. ·
o,gitized by Goo.gle
32i
Such are the immense advantages which the religion
of Christ has procured to the world ! Such are tbe
e11'ects we see resulting from .the gospel, or the glad
tidinga, which the Son ofGod came in person to an-
nounce! · To judge of it by it1 fruits, that is, accord-
ing to the rule which the Messiah himself has given, ·
the incredulous find, that Christianity was allegorically
represented by the fig trte acc•rsed. But those who
have faith, assure us, that in the other world this tree
will some day produoe delicious fruits. We must
therefore wait for them in patience, for every thing
. evinces that the great benefits promised by this reli-
gion are very little perceptible in the present ·world.
There are, however, people who carry incredulity
so far as to think, that if there exists a God ·really
jealous of his rights, he will confer little recompence
on mortals so impious as to associate with: him a mart,
a Jew, and a charlatan; and to pay him hon9urs wllich
are due only to the Divinity. Indeed_, in supposing
that God .is offended by the actions .of his creatures,
and _concerns himself with their behaviour, be must
be irritated at the odious conduct of many Christians,
who, under pretence of devotion and zeal, believe'
themselves permitted to violateJt'the lnost sacred duties
of, nature, of which they make the Deity the author.
It ia, add our unbelievers, very difficult to calcu-
late the duration of human extravagancies; but they
flatter themselves, that the reign of falsehood and error
wlfi terminate at some period, and give place to reasob
·and truth•. They hope, that nations and their chief&
• A Scotchman publiShed at London, 1699, a book under
the title of Joh. Craigii · Scoti, theolcgia! 'Christitma! prinei-
p. matherrumca, wherein lie endeavours to prove, that everr
thing founded on the testiaony of men, wllether inspired or
Digitized byGoogle
SiS
\'\'ill some day perceive the danger resulting from their
prejudices ; that they will blush at having prostituted
their praises on objects deserving sovel'eign contempt;
-that they will regret the blood and treasures which
baneful fables and ·reveries have cost them ; and tbat
they will be at last aahamed of hning been the dupes
and victims of a mass of romances, destitute of Rroba-
bility, and never possessing a more solid foundation •
than the astonishing credulity of men,and the astonish-
. ing impulence of those wbo preach-them. These un-
believers venture at least to glimpse at a time, when
men, become more sensible of the.ir own interest, will
acknowledge the tru·ly barbarous folly of bating and
tormenting tbemselvet, and .cutting one another's
throats for obscure dogmas, puerile opinions and cere-
monies unworthy of rational beings, and on which it is ·
impossible to be eve.r unanimous. These infidels push-
not inspired, Ia only probatile; aod that ita probability di-
mtniahes in proportion as mankind recede from the time the
· witDesse8 lived, on whOle testimony they believe. On this
principle he makes an · a1gebraical calculation,. according to
wbich he aflirma, th(lt it ia probable tb.e Christian religion
will endure still 1464. years, at the end of which its proba-
bility of endurance will' be reduced to nothing. But he
tuppclll(lS, that the last judgment must amve in time to pre-
.vent this total ecHpee the faith. Whether these calcula-
tions and conjectures be true w false, we may apply to the
religion of Jesus what· Lactantius laid of the heathen mi-
thology, according · to which Jupiter had dethroned his
father Saturn : Yideo dlium Dttma foittll regtm primil tern-
pori/Ita, alium coruequelltibu.r. Potelt "go fieri, ut aliu1 .fit
poltet!.Jvturtu. Si mim rep;num priiA4 mtdatum elt ; cur despertmiU
ni4• polteriUI polH mtdari, Lactant. Institut. Divin. lib. i. c. 11.
1fG«l wu weary of the Jewilh reJision, why may he not becoute
wea:ry of t.be Christian also?
u u
...
•
Digitized byGoogle
,'.
their temerity so far as to maintaiu, that it is very
possible so.vereigos and subjects may one day loathe a
· ·religion burdensome to the peo..ple, and producing real
adnntages only to the priests of a beggarly and cru-
cified God. They thin\, that the profane laity, if un-
deceived, could easily bri•g their priests back to the
frugal life of the apostles or of Christ, whom they
,ought to regard as a model; at least, these infidels
imagine, that the ministers of the God of peace would be
obliged to Jive more peaceably, and follow some occu-
pation more honest than t\lat of deceiving, or tearing
to pieces, the which fosters them.
If it is demanded of us what can be substituted for
a religion which at all times produced only effects
pernicious.:'U> the happiness of the human race,
will bid men cultjvalji their reason, much .·
than absqrd and deceptive system&, will advance. their
welfare, and make them sensible of the value of vir-
tue. Finally, we will tell them with Tertullian-
WHY P.A.IK YOURSELVES IN SEEKUlG Fo'R A DIV'U(.B
:LAW, WHILST YOU HAVE THAT WHIC_H IS COMMON ·TO
MANKIND A.ND J:NGK.AVEN ON TKE TAJJLZTS 01'
·NATURE.•
• Tll'tulL de corou miliU.•
..
Digitized b
/Google
APPENDIX.
I.
THE CHRISTIAN MITHOLOGY.
. '
•
GOD, by an inconct'ivabte act of his omnipotence, created
the universe out of nothing.• He made the earth for the
residence of man, whom he created in his own image.
Searcoely had this man, the prime of the labours or
the Almighty, seen the light, when his creator set a snare
for him, into which God undoubtedly knew that he mwt
A serpent, which speaks, seduces a woman, who is no
way surprised at tbis phenoraenon. Being penuaded by the
serpent, ehe solicits her husband to eat of a fruit forbidden
by God himself. Adam, the father of the human race, by
' this light fault draws upon himself and his innocent posterity
innumerable eVils, which are followed but not terminated by
·death. By the offence of eoly one mao, the whole human
. race incurs the wrath of God ; and they are at pu•
nished for involuntary faults with an universal deluge. God
repents having peepled the earth, and he finds it easier to .
• E" niltilo nllilfit, wu conaidered u .aa a:aiom b;p anoient philo..
phers. The creation, u achaitted by Cbriatiau of the pretellt da;p,
i. t. the edaction qf.Jl tlaing1.fo- nothing, ia a theological iDYention Mt•
indeed of very remete date. The word BaraA, which ie 111ed in Genetit,
airrufiea to .-10#•.tm'Gfl{lt, to flllimng.
byGoogle
I
I
'
326
drown anq destroy the human race, than !4) change ·their
hearts.
A small number of the just, however, escaped this des-
tructive tlood ; but the earth, and the destruction of
waukintl, did nohatiate the' implacable vengeance of their
Creator : a new generation appeared. · These, though de· ·
acended from the friends of God, whom he .had preserved in
the genentl shipwreck of the world, incense him by new·
crimes. The Ahnighty'is represented as laaving,been inca•
pable of renderiAg his creatures such as he desired them : a
uew torrent of eorruption carrieli away mankind, and wrath
i1 again excited in .the bo8om of Jehovah!
Partial Jn affections and preferences, God, at length,
cuts his eyes on an idolaUous Assyrian.• He enters into
an alliance with this mant' IUld covenants that his poeterity
shall be multiplied to the numher of the stan of Heaven, or
the sands of the sea, and that they shall fot ever enjoy
favour of God. . To this chosen race he.reveals hia will : for
tht>m, regardless of his justice, he '!.hble nations,
Nevertheless this favoured is not the more happy, or
more attached to their God. They tly. to atrange iods, from
whom they seek- aocconrs which are denied to them by their
own. They frequently insult tl}e God wb• is able to exter-
minate them. Sometimes he punished, consoles
them ; at one period he hates them without a cause ; and at
• Arabians belieYe that'Abraham, 100n after be Will born, wu
hid b;y bia father in a certain can under a mountain, for fear of the
Cfla.ldeaDJ, who aought to la;y handa on him, be\lauae the utrologers
bad foretold that he would prove tile .deatrqction of their goda. Ia
p.roceu of time, Abraham, when be waa grown to yean of maturit)',
ode evening came out of the cave, and began with great admiration te
• conwmplate the Heuena, with their innumerable stan, and, by
ehaaee; aeeing the planet Venlll arise, which greatly exceeda the rest
in IH!auty and brightueu, be aid, "Tbil is my God and my.Creator."
But a little alter, when the 11100n appeared, he ehanged hia opinioa,
and said, " Tbia ia my God and my Creator." At length when the SUil
&I'Oie, being utonisbed, be cried out, " This ia really my God and mr
, , Creator, than wltom nothing can be imagined more splendid, lofty or
"&eantiful." But when be had 1pokea these worda, the angel Gabriel
appeand and stood befon him, and taught · him the true God utl the
true religio11, Abr, Ece. Hilt. Arab. "· vi.
Digitized byGoogle
' 827
another he.caresses them with as little- reason. At laat, ftnd·
iog i't impossible- to reclaim this perverse people, for whom
he cootinuee to feel the warmest tendemetts, he sends
amongst them his own son. To thii son they will not listen,
What do I say beloved son, equal to God hie father,
is put to an ignominious death by his favourite ,nation !
His father at the same time find' it to save the
human race without· the sacrifice of his own son. Thus an
innocent God becomes the victim of a juat God, by whom
he is beioved : both consent to this. sacrifice judged
necessary by a God who knows that it will be useless to an
hardened nation which nothing can reclaim.
We shouLd expect that the death of this God, being use-
leu to Israel. must serve at least to expiate the sins of the
r•t of the human race. Notwithstanding the eternal alii- -
ance with the 'Hebrews, solemnly sworn to by the Mott
High, and so many times tenewed, that fuourite natioD
find themselves at last deserted by their God who not
reduce them to obedience. The merits of the sufferings and
death of hts son, are applied to the nations before
from his bounty. Thetoe are reconeiled to Heavefi, now be-
come more just in regard to them, and return to grace.
Yet .in spite of all the etforts of. God, his favours..are lavished
in vain : mankind continue to aio, ·to enkindle the divine
wrath, an$1 to render themselves worthy of tile eternal 'pn-
niahment previously prepared and destined for the greater
part of the human. race.
Such· is the faithful hiatory of God on whom the
foundation of the religion is laid. His conduct
being.so strange, cruel and opposite to aU reason, ia it
surprising to aee the -of this God ignorant of
their duties, de$titute of humanity and justice, and striving
to a11similate themselves to the model of that barbarous di-
vinity which they adore?- What indnlgence ltave mankind
a right to ·expect from a God who spared not even hi• own
aon ? What indulgence can the <;bristian who believes tbi.s
fable shew to his fellow man. Ought be not to imagine
that the sumt means of pleasing hi• God, is to imitate his
and cruelty?
o;gitizedbyGoogle 1
But this God is not always unjust and cruel; hie c(mdttct
Yaries. Sometimes he appears to have created all nature fer
man alone; at othere he seems to have created man onJy·u
an object whereon to exerci'ae his arbitrary rage.
they are cheriahed by him. notwithstanding all t'heir faults:
at others the. whole species i11 to eternal mieery
for an apple.-This unchangeable God is altenmtely ag;.
tated by anger and love, revenge and pity, benevolence
and fury. His conduct is continually destitute of tbnt uni•
formity which characterises wisdom. Partial in his aft'ec-
tiona, he makes .it the duty of his favourite people deliber-
ately to commit the most atrocious crimea. He command!!
them to Yiolate good faith and contemn the rights o( na•
tions : he enjoins upon them the commission of robbery and
murder. On other occasions we see him forbidding the
crimes, ordainiag.justice, and prescribing to mankind ab-
stinence from whatever the order of society.
This God, who in tum is styled the God of JTeJ&geance, the
God of Merciu, the God of Arms, and the God of Peaee1 is
constantly at variance with himself. .His subjects are conse-
quently each for himself, ·at liberty to imitate that part of
his. conduct which he finds most congenial to his humour.
Hence their morality b'ecomes arbitrary, which renders it
ao way ••rpriaing that they have ne.er yet been able to
agree among themselves, whether it would most pleasing
to their God to tolerate the various opinions of mankind, or
to exterminate all who differ from themseh•e9 ? lt is in fact
a problem with most Christians, whetller-it would be more
expedient to per&ee11te .tod as9Uiiaate those who think not
u they do, er to treat them with humanity and suffer them
to me in peace ?
C!larialiwmity u•.,rilefl, by Boulanger, Chap. iv.
Digitized byGoogle
' .
II.
CHRISTIAN MORALITY.
WEllE we to believe Christians, there could have been 110
true morality on earth until the coming of the founder of .
their sect. Tbey represent the world ns having been
plunged in darkness and vice at ail times and pl!lces where
was unkriown. Yet morality was always necessary'
to mankind; for, without it, no society cao exist. We
find, that before the time of Christ, there were flourishing
pd virtUO\lS nations, and enlightened pbilosopber1, whe.
. continually reminded maakind, of their duties. The pre-
cepts of Socrates, Confucius, a.ad the Gymnosophists of
India, are by no meaDB inferior to thoae of the Messiah of
the Christians:• We find amongst beatheoa, innumerable
instances of equity, humanity, temperance, disinterested-
ness, patience, and meeknns, which ftatly contradict the
pretensions of the Chriatians, and prove, that before Chmt-
• The p1Uest .,.rt of the system of in the New Testa-
ment, and which ia 10 much boaated o( by Christiana, appears to be
nothing more than a literal copy of the Morau qf CO!tfVciu, who W1'0te
600 yean before the birth or Chriat. Tbia will appear evide..·lroa
the t'ollowiag extractl :
" .Do &o another what you would ·they ahoald do unto you ; aDd do
not unto what you would should not be done unto .you : thou
only tbia law alone ; it ia the foundation and principle of all the
relf." !Uth Moral,
" Desire not the death of thine enemy ; thou wouldit desire It in vwia :
his life is in the banda or Heaven." 61at Moral. .
" Acknowledge thy benefits by the return of other beaelta, ·,biU aever
reveage injuries." 63rd Kor&l.
"We ll)ay have an a'veraion for an enemy without revenge.
The motiona of nature are not always criminal." 43rd Morel.
Confucina instructed u well by hi11 example u by hit precepts ; aa4
i1 would be wen it' his morals were taught in· all the .aelloob anll collec•
el Bwope, illlltead ef those christian medl uaj clopiU wlaioll the Nuda&
,an 11ner
Digitized by s:;oog e
..
830
waa knoWQ on earth, virtues flourished which were fur more
real than thO&e he came to teach.
Wu a_supernatural revelation necessary to inform man-
kind that society cannot exist without virtue, and t!J;tt, by ·
the admiuion of vice, societies consent to their own des-
truction Was it necessary that a God should speA,,to
ehew, that .they have need of,mutual aid and mutual love?
Was 886iatance from on High neceseary to discover
reveoge .is an evil, and an outrage upon the laws, which,
when they are just, auume to themselves the right of retri-
bution ? Is not the forgiveuess of injuries connected with
this prinriple And is not hatred eternalized, where im-
placable revenge ie e•ercised t Is not the pardoning of our
enemies a greatness of t!Oul, -which gives us an advantage
over those_ who offend us? When we do good to our ene- ·
miee, does it not give us a superiority over them ? -Is not
such cooduct calcqlated to multiply our friends? Does not
every man, who is desirous to live, perceive that vice, in-
temperance, ond voloptuousnesa must shorten the period of
•Haa not experience demonstrated to every thinking
being, that vice is injurioua and detestable even those who.
are oot free from its empwe, and that tbe of vii'tue-
ia the only means of acquiring real esteem and love ? How-
ever little mankind may reflect on what they themselves,
their true interests-, and the ends of society are, they-
feel what they ought te be to each other. Good laws will
render them good; and where these exist, there is no need·
of flying to Heaven for. rules for the
pineas of society. Reason is suf)icient to teach Uf our duties
to our fellow creatures. What assistance can it recei,•e
from a religion by which it is continually and
degraded ? · -
. It is &aid that Christianity, far from counteracting mo-
J\lity, its chief aupport, and renders 1ts obligations more
.iacred, by giving them the sanction of God. In my opi-
-nion, however, the Christian religion, instead of supporting
morality, renders it weak and precarious. It cannot posai-
1 bly have any aolia foundation on the commands of a GQd,
who ia partial, and capricious, and ordains with
I ,
Digitized byGoogle
I
311
same mouth, juatice and injUitice. collCOnl aDd carnage,
t.lentioo aad penecution. It ia i•poiBible to follow the
pncepta of a rational morality, under the 81Dpire of a re-o
lipoo whil•h makee a merit of DlOit destruetive ·zeal,
e.thusiaam, aDd fi&Wlticism. A religion which com"""'da u.
te imitlk the conduct of a deJpet \Yho delighta to eDIDII.I'f'
hia creaturee, who is. implac:able in hia. •....-ce,
vote. to destruction all who have the aiaf•rtuae to
diaplease him, is ineoapatible with alliDOI'I&lity. The ion-
merable crimea with which the Cbn.tiaa. more tbaa a.y
religion, has . stained itself, haye alwaya been com-
mitted under the pretence of pleaai.ng the &rocious Qud
whom the Christiana have inherited from the Jews. The
JBOral character of this God, -must of nece.ity, goMrD tM
moral coaduct of tboae who adore him.
Morality should. be founded upon Nl-.• A.
God who dtatroys these rules, deatroys his 01n1 WGI'k. If
God be the erea.t.er of man, if he intends tlaeir ·
...l (*lltltV&tioil, be woald have them. to be juat, bameae.
Ulll beoetolent, atd &Nne to iaju.aiee, aiMl
auelty•.
We..,- tbaa aee what we ought to.tbink ofthele.cJi'fil*
wlao pretaad, that withont the Christian Jl8ligioa there CCM1W·
be aeither morality aor Yirtoe among 'fbe 0811·
..-e of tail propo!lition would mach Digher tbe
• " It ;.nDOt be too often repeated," •11 llirabautl, " that there
ao monlit7 withont the nature . of man, ud hia true rela-
tionr, with the beinga •f hit" epeci8; DO llxed principlee for man'• eon- '
aetiB repJMier it *poll ujuat, capriciou, ad wielr:ed goda ; DO 1I01Ilnl
,.._.. widlnt ao.-hillf the Ullll'e of •• Ufilll'ia Meiety, ....d!o! .
'ftl a. atia£1 JUt ...U ud euure hia ..,,u.a; ao
J¥Dl can found itlelf upon a deepotic Ood.-he willlllqp • •
ranb ·of hia repment.ava ; no law!' will be rocl withont
the ilature and the tnd of 1100iety ; np juriaprndence CIIJI be advanta-
,_.- for if it is rernlated upn11 the caprice and pauion• or.
ttelted tyrwnta. "No ed-aiml wiU he nlioaal m• hbe foundt!d apoa
-........ •• •t .,.. oliiaenle llllll paejudioel. Ia Um, there ia "
rirtlle, ne prolai&J, taleata ldlder urrap& .-rt-utler the,
·duct of. tlaote priafl who ,.,ader men t1ae e-i• ol liJitl ef
otherr, and who CODitaDt17 and Hell to wfltt. of ru.•
l[ltn, of of COlii'AfP..-Byltetll ll{ /V.mff, vel, 1".·p. i4'!,
X .x.
o;gitizedbyGoo le
'truth; aitd it might'be maintaiaed, that every Christiae WO.
imitates his God and practises all · his eommaods, moat ne--
cessarily be an immol'lll per&On. If it be said that tbote
COJllmalids are not always unjust, und that the Scri.,turea
ofteo f?reathe benevolence, harmony, and equity, I answer,
.Ch.rietiaoa must have an inconstaut morality, soiletime. ·
good and sometimes bad, according: to interest ;utd i ndi-ri-
duala. It appears that they moat either be wholly desti-
tute of true morality, or vibrate continually from virt•e t.
vice, and from vice to virtue.
-l'he Chriltian religion is but a· rotteo prop to morality.
It will not bear ;examination, and every man who die-
avers its will be ready'to believe that the
founded 011 such a basis can be only. a chimera. Thus we
often behold men, 'vho have couched the neck bent'Bth the
·yeke of re\igion, break loose at once, and abandon tbe!ll'-
seh·ea to d•uchery, intemperance. and every kiud of vice.
from the elavery of superaritioo, they fty to com-
plete aoarcby, and diibelieve the existence of all moral em-
ties, because they bare found religion to be only a
Hence, among Chriatiaos, the infidel and likrtw
have become eynonymous. All these inconveniences- would
l.e avoided, if mankind, ioatead of beiug taught a tlaeologif:GI,
were a natural morality. Instead of ia-
iemperaDCtt and vice, because they are ofFensive to God and
religion, .they spould be prevented, by convincing man that
they are destructive to his · existence, and render him COD•
\ 'temptible in society; that they are disapproved and forbid-
den by reaaon and nature, who aim at his preservation, and
dmet him to take the path that leads to pen:Jilanent felicity.
What.eYer may be the will of God, and independently of the
futnre rewards and punishments announced. by religion, it
ie eaiY. to prove to every man that it is in this world his in-
terest to preterve his hqtlth. to respect virtue, acquire the
of his- fellow-creatures,· and, .in fine, to be ehatte,
temperate, andvirtuow. .Tboee wnose pueions will not snffer
them to ·.U.d to principles so clear. and reasooabl\ will
not be more dOcile to the' voice of religion, which they ·will
' qeue tO Wie-te the moment it their misgu.idinc
propeaaitiea,.. ' ·
• byGoogle
•
•
• I
333
the pretended advantages which the Chriatinn
religion morality be no longer boasted•. The prin-
ciples drawn from revelation tend to its destruction,,
frequent examples of Christian nations, . whose moral.
are far more corrupted. than thoae of people· whom they
atyle infidels and heatbeui ; the former are at least most sub- '
ject to religious fanaticism, a p11ssion calculated to banish
Justice and all the social virtues from aociety.
Christiunity t·reates intolenmce and who are
much more injurious to society the most abandoned
It is at least certain, that the most Christian
natioas of Europe are not those where true morality ia
most felt and practised. Jn Spain, Portugal, and Italy,
' where the most superstitious .sect of Christians has fixed1ts
residence, people live in the most shameful ignoranceof
their Robbery, assassination, debauchery, and
secution are there earned to tht'ir worst extreme ; and yet
all men are full of religion. Few virtuous men exist in
those countries. There religion itself becomes an accom.,
plice to vice, furnisht>s crimipals wi\h an asylum, .and pro-
cures to tbem easy means of reconciliation with God.
Presents, prayers, and ceremonies procure mankind -a dis-
peusatlon from the practice of virtue. Even,amongst na-
tions, who boast of possessing Christianity in all its plltity,
religion has so entirely absorbed the attention of its sectat"ies,
· ... Notlrithltaadiag the happy . attribatell, to the Chris-
tiaa religion, do we lind more virtuca in those who profeo it, tblllt
thole who are atraagers to it ? Are the men redeemed by_
· the
bloed or even a Deity, more hoaeat than others ? It might be ima-
Jiaed that we wonld ask ·in Y!lUl among Christiana Cor rapine, ior-
aieatioa, udaltery, and oppreasion. Among the ortbodnx coartil'ra
wbo aurrounded Chriltian thrones, do we not diacover iattipes, ca-
laJUy, and perlidy ? Amoag the clergy who preaeh to others such
redoubta_
bl! doetrinea, and aucb terrible ohastistmeatl, do .
we not lind crimea that ahnn tlu{ day, and every apeciea of ioi-
flDity ?-Ill these men are Christians, \Vho; unbridled by their reli-
rioa, continually Yiolate the plainest dutiea of morality, anti keow-
il_lglr- continue to of'end a God whom the-y are •o( .
· Yet &hey flatter themselvea they ahall be able, by a ct.aJh- ·
kd repentance, to ·appeate that dit·iae -justice which they have
iuriag thewhole oltheir livefl
., •
Digitized byGoogle
/ .
'
:tlat IDOI'&lity entera not into their thoughts; and·they ea1cn-
late 1hatthey fulfil all their dntiet by a scrupulous o'beerra·
.._ of the minutie of superstitious eeremonies, whilst they
..re strangers to.all 110eial affections, and labour for the
struction of human happiness.
CAmtitmity Unveiled, Cbap. xi•
........
III.
Political Ep'ecu ofthe Christian
Arn:11 having seen the inutility and even danger of the
peri'ections, virtues, and duties proposed by the Christian
religion, l!i!t us enquire whether its political influences be
llloi'e happy, and whether it can in reality promote the.
w.Mare ofa nation, among. whom it is established and faith-
fully observed. We at once find, that wherever this reli-
'gion is admitted, opposite legislation•, ever !lt variance
witla each other, tbem11elves. Although reli-
gion preaches love and peace, it aoon annihilates the effects
of those precepts by the divitions which it sou
• among its sectaries, who .Qnavoidably interpret di.fferen.tly
the ambiguous oracles announced in holy writ. We find
that from the infancy of religion the most acrimonious dia-
JNJte8 uve continually taken place 'diYioee. The
ages of Chriatiaoity have beeo stai-ned with
laereaies, peraecutions, and contests widely discor-
dant froaa.ita beaated spirit of peace 'and concord, which
ia in tact incompatible with a religion whoae precepts are10
dark and In all reliKiou• diaputea each pu&r
believes that God is on its lide, and t»Daequently tbey &.e
Indeed, bow can it be otherwise; when they
• AD the religloa oa earth declare. that the7 line emanaatd ·ftoOit '
Ged,' and pretead tG poaea an exclulive right to llis fnours, !'he,
lac1ia ueerta tJiat the Bl'lllllcl irimelf u the author 'Of llu worship.
Tba ._dilamaa derives -!lia fn.m the awful l)tltft. If the Jew aucl
. I .
Digitized byGoogle
!ellfouod ·tiN t'll,_ 'If Qod. -wit1tthat oftMir ewu -anity
·1'bfi11lUtually avet"&e to concession, 'they quarrel aod 8ght
unttl fbree has decWed a conast in whkb they .ver appeal
to n!IIHn. In fat-t, l'Olitic:el utheriliea eMr beeo
lbtted to ia ·all the tfisaed8iens whieb illllfe ari..
ammgOrrishtia. htlve 'lllway• U.teaecl1o the.
friyolowJ di1p0tel or priests,I and fao&tishty eeblidered thea
as objects the last importarrce. They lave conceivetl,
&lt·in a reli8fon w:stlriM;I1led by God himtelf, there eoald lHs
nothing ofa trifling nature. . Thus prinCe& have armed tbem-
.ebea their· owa eabjects, wltote epinioml diM!red
from tbeir's. The way u thinking at has deaded the
creed and 18ith of subjects. Opinione supported by kiaga
and priests have been the only true ones. Thar clfttnm
ha-re been the pardians of orthodoxy, and were 'e011l-
mlllioned to exterminate all whom they ehoee to denomi.-te
betetica and rebels. ' . \
The prejudices of ptinces or their fatae policy, Lae cauled.
them to consider those of their aubjects who differ f\oom. .
themselves in religious opinio,ns, as bad eitizeoa, dangerous
to the &tate, and eoemiee to their power. If, leariag to
priests the businees of finishing their own impertinent di..
putes, they had not assisted their quarrels and persecutions,
they would have died away of themselvea, and never have
tile Chrileia h•Y.e receiv.ed thaira from J"'-'1, •1 ille .-...., ttl
IIOHI aDAlleaaa, Mabometan atino., that he hu reeelved Jaia from u
prophet, i111pired bJthe aeme God. Tllaa all religiou pretend .., a dinu
origin ; and they all interdict the tile of reuoa ia the ·examiaation of
their aacred title•. Each pretend• to be the oaty true one, to the exctw.
aioo ofall otben. All 11\l'uaee with the wrath of h•eo· thole 1the
-ftfue te nblnit te their and -all aequire the .,!Jar..-er Gl
laltleiMod bJ tile plllpablc co11tradictiona with which the1 illed; ilr
the .U..hapea, ehHure, aad eftea odioaa idl'U which dley give e(the
rodbead ; hJ tile whimaical law• whicla they attribute to him; aad by the
clisputrs which they generate amour tbeir aectariea. In abort, the1 all
appear to be a mua of i•poltnre• and renriea equally diagaatiug to rea.
-· Thn oa the acore of preteuaioaa, the Ohriltiaa religion bu noall•
.satqe - tile e&ller aapentiti- with 'W:IIlch tile werN II Hafeattd;
IIIII I* 4WiM•JiPtia Olldelteilll1 all e&ltea wida ei ..... 1111
t!Mii'•'•·a.Md ., it.. - . . . '
D
1gitizedb.
vGoogle -
. ---
136
diaturbed the .of natioal. If th• kinga lwl iatpu.O
tially recompeuaecl the good and punished the bad witboui
regard' to their worahip, ceremonies, aod speculative ·opi·
uione, they would aot have made many 'of their subjects
lOCh enemies to that power by which they found themselva
oppresaed. have alwar• attempted to f(!claim
beretica. by injll&tice, violence, and persecution. Ought not
they to have perceived that tbia coqduct was calculated
only to pl"f)_()nce ·hr.vocrites ana hidden euem.ia, or open
rebellioos ? ·
But tbeae reflections are not designed for princes, who.
from their infancy, have been filled with fanaticism
They, instead of being actuated by Yir.tuona
motive&, have for.med obatiuate att,aehmenta to frivolities,
and impetuous ardour for doctrines foreign to the of
their states, and a boundless wrath against all who refu&e to
bend to their despotic opinions: Such aovereipa find it a
aborter way to ,destroy mankind than reclaim them by mild
means. Their haughty despotism will not condescend to
Religic;m asaurea them that tyrannly is lawful, and '
cruelty meritorious, when they are employed in the cause of
Heaven. . . · · 1
The Christi.;n religion, in fact, always makes de11pots
. and tyrants of all the sovere!gns by whom it i's adopted. It
represents them as goda upon earth; it cauaea their very
caprices· to b£. respected as the will of Heaven itself. It I
delivers mankind into their hands as an herd of slaves, .of
whom they may at their pleasure. · In return for
tl1eir fpr religion, all the outrages upon justice that they
can c.omruit,are forgiven, and their a.ubjects are commanded
under pain of the wrath of the Most High, to submit with-
out amurmur, to the sword that atrike'J instead of protect-
, ing them. It is not, therefore, matter of turpriae thllt, sill<'e
the establiahment of this religion, we see so 'many nations
groaning under 'devout t.yru.nta, who, although
to religion, have been unju&St, licentious, and crueL
Whatever were the oppresaiona and ravagea of theae religi-
.' oua or hypocritical princes, ·the priesta have nof fai!ed t.e
preach aubmiuion to their subjects. On the other band,
Digitized byGoogle
•
•
Dbthe •urprised,to see so JD.UlY weak ana wicked
princa aapport ·in their turn thtt intetelt. of a relig;oo.
their falae tJC>licy judged neceuary to the
of th,ir auth<trity'. If kings were enlightened, j118t and vir-
tuouw, and and practiaed taeir. real duties, they would
llaye bad no need 6f,the aid of superstition in governiDg
Datiou. JJat, as itia more easy to couform to rites than to
acq\'lire talents or practiae virtue, thia religion bas tOo '
often fouiKI in princes support for itaelf, and destruction
for its enemie&. 1 •
The mioistera.ofreligion have not had the same complaii-
ance for princes who refused to ma,ke a common .caaae with-
them, eap(.use quarrels, and become subservient -to
their pallliona. They hue arisen againat those who have
thwarted their views, puniahed their excesses, touebed their
immunities, mdeavoured to aubjec:t them to reason, or re-
preas their,ambitiout designs. Tbe priests on· such occa•
aions, ery . out, lwrputy!. Samlege! Then they · pretend
the aovereign putl hi• to tlee cnuer, aud usurpe
the righta granted them by God himself. Tbetit they'enda.
vour to excite lllltiona to rebellion. They arm fanatict
against aover:eigna, .whom they declare tyranta for t.vm,
been wanting in submiaeion to the church. u...en ia always
ready to revenge any dooe to its milliatera. Tbey
are theiJ)selves submiaeive, and preach mbmiasion to'ethers,
only when they are permitted to ahare the authority, or are
too feeble to resist it. This is ·the reuon why the apostles
in .the infancy of Christianity, being d.eatitute of power,
preached aubordiDation. No 10011er bad this religio_n gaiaetl
suflicient.streogth than it preached reaiatance and rebellion;
dethroning aome and as8881inating othss•.
• It it wen to o'blerTe, that the prieats who are perpetually crylor
ellt ·to the people to IUbmit thetlllelTI!I to their IOYereipe, because
daeir autbori'f it derind trom BeaYe-'becauae ther are the imarea
el.the dirioitr, ·preModr ebaJare their lanpage
d- DO& bliuil:r aubmit fiD the church. The clergy uphold del-
poti.uo onlr. that. it may direct ita blo"' agaiut theia: eoemU. ; it
·•nrtbrowa ·it wbeut:Yer it fiod.l it COiltral')' to ita'iotereata. The ministers
of the ilimible powen preach up obedience to the Yiaible powPn oJtf:w-
••••tla.. are lauaabiy deTe1ed to dlelo. Mwbcncd.
Iae.ery. political wbent tiU Ntis'n-ie eataWi.Jaedj
._. •e·two m.l potreN, which. eooteMioa
I
......_ aud woeod the .tate. The citiftU diftde iftf:6
oppoeite pertiee, eaeh of which fight. or tliiake it fights fer .
GocL 1'hele at clift'eNIIt tim• termioete di6-
reatly, 'hat the triumphant patty alwll1" i11 the right.
By examination of Rctt events we shall escape
the domini..of faaaticiiiD. It is by atiMUlatiog mankiiHf
to enquiry that tbe7 muet be .
fnled fror8 tbe ebaekles ofau•
perstition. Let mankind think till they have thrown Miele
tMll' prtlindicea, aiMI tb.ty will think justly. The reign of
the prieathood will ceu.. when mn ceMe to be igooraot
aad credulou. it the otffpriog ofiporauce, and
aaperttitieo i• thf child of
But moat kiop dread that mankind shoul,t be euligbt-
ened. .Aftomplieea with the prieatbeed they haft tbnu.ed
a league wil!h them .to reuon, aDd peneeute all • .
J01IIde ia ita pidanc:e. Blind to their oll'li interest and
tbeee ef their they with only .to COIIIlJIIalld·
tbote ala•ea ate alway• at the ditpeeal- .r the
prlats.. Thue,. tee negleeted and- ignorance tri•
iaapllant iD tiiOie where thie religion llolft the
JJlCIIItabd11te c:t.miniob. Arts and eeiencee are the
f1f liberty, ..t eeparated from their pareote. they laoguieh
_. -· Amonr C!lhrietiao netioas. the least supentmoue
... the mOlt &ee. powerful, and· happy. In eountriet
..-. epiritua} _
and temporal ·are leaped. the
.-people greMl iD ille mUtt sbentetul ignorance aBel lethargic
u.ti'rity. The J:uropeaa nations who boast of poase81ing
thepasoe.t t'IUth, ere netBUrely the most ftoariahing and pow-
Their kiDga, eDelaved themselves by prieata, haYe
· not energy and courage enough to make a sinsle
ier their own welf.re or that of their subjects. PrieD iJJ
a\lch etataare tae ooly,order ef . . wlao are lieh: ot.Mr
iD the dtepest ioiigenee. Bot; of WMt im-
-,.rtaac:e the powel' and happiDen otnations to the( HC'o
taries ofa religion who seek not for happiness in this 1
wbo·believe riches ioj:urious, preach a God of povert.J• and
rec:oinmend abutiiJlellt .to ibe IOill, &1¥1·JJJQrti&cai• e(.the
Digitized byGoogle
839
flesh ? It is, without doubt, to compel ·people .to practise
these maxims, that the clergy in many Christian states have
taken possession of most ofthe riches, and live in splendour,
while their fellow-citizens are set forwat;d . in the road. to
Heaven ubincumbered with any burthen of ·earthly
Such are the political ad-vantages society deri-lzes from the
Christian religion. It 'forms an independent state within a
state. It renders the people slaves. When sovereigns are
obedient to it, it favours their when ·they are
disobedient, it ,renders their sui;.jects fanatic and rebellious.
When it witli political power., ·it convulses,.debases,
and impoverishes nations; when not, it makes citizens. un-
locial, turbulent, intolerant, and mutinous•.
ChrjstifJflity Chap. xi-..
• See, La CMitagitm Sacre£, by Trenchard, pnbliabed in ],768, In
that work the gr.
ievous influence of aupeutition on governments' i•
atrikingly displayed.
,.
IV.'
r 'CHRISTIAN CLERGY.
, No religion ever placed its sectarie& in more and
dependance on priests than the Christian. Those
harpies·ne;rer lose sight of their prey. They take inflllli-
ble measures for subjecting mankind;and making all con-
tribute !o their power, ·riches, and dominion. 'Having
llumed the office of mediator between the heavenly monarch
and his subjects, these priests are looked upon as
in favour, ministers commissioned .to exercise power in his
DIUile, and favouriteS' 1IP whom, ·he· can refuse nothing•
. Thus they bt-come a»solute masters of the destiny of the
Christians. They gain establishments and render t11ent-
selve& necessary by the introduction of pral'•
y 1
.. Digitized byGoogle
..:'··· ·
\
' .
•
840
ticea and duties, which though puerile and ridiculous, theY'
have the address to make their flO<'ks consider as indispen-
sably aeceasary to their salvation. They represent the
omi5sioo of these pretended duties as a crime infinitely
greater than an open violation of the laws of morality and
reason.
Let us not then be surprised that in the moat zealous, that
is to say, the most superstitious sects, we tee mankind per-
pebJally annoyed with priests. Scaree are tl1ey born, when.
under the jnoeiext of washing away original sin, their
impose on· them a mercenary baptism, and pretend to recon-
cile them with a God whom they have as yet ·been unable
to offend. By means of a few words and magieal ceremo.-
nies they are thus snatched from the dominion of Satan.
From the te.odere&t infancy their education is frequently en·
trusted to priests whose principal care is to . instil into them
early the prejudices necessary to the views of the church.
Terrors are now introduced into· their minds, wbieh increate •
during the whole of their lives. They are instructed in the fa-
bles,. absurd doctrines, and incompreheo11ible mysteries ofa
marvellous religion ; they are furmed into superstitious Chris-
tians, and rendered incepable of being useful · citizens or
e.nlightent:>d men. One thing only is represented to them as
necessary, which is to be'in all things devoutly submissive
to rel;gion. ". Be devout," say their teachers, " be blind,
despise thy reason, 'attend · to Heaven, and neglect earth,
this is all thy God demands to condtict thee to eternal
felicity." . ·
Without the consent of his priests, a. Christian cannot
acquire it knowledge of the mysteries of his religion,
from which they assume a right to exclude him entirely••This
privation, however, he has no great reason to lament. But
the anathemas or excommunications oP the.priests generaUy
do a real mischief to mankind. These spiritual punishments
produce temporal effects, and every citizen who incurs t_he
disgrace of the church, is in danger of that of the govern..
ment, and becomes odious to his 'fellow citizens.
Priests have taken upon themselvesthe management of mar-
riages. Without•their const!nt, a Christian cannot legally be-
clme a'·father. He must first submit to the capricious for-
..
•
94.1
mallties of ·his religion, without which his childt-en mu.st be
excluded from the rank of citizens.
During all life, the Christian is obliged to assist in the
ceremonies of worship under the direction of his priesti,
When he baa performed this important duty, he esteems
himself the favourite· of God, and persuades himself that
be no longer owes any thing to society. Thus frivolous
practices take place of morality, which is always ·rendered
subordinateto religion.
When death approaches, the Christian, stretched in agony
()n his bed, is still assailed in those distressful moments by
P.riests. In some sects, religion ,seems to have been invented.
to render the bitter death of man ten thousand times more
bitter. A malicious priest comes to the pf the
man, and holds before him. arrayed in more than all its
terror:', the spectacle of his approaching Although this
custom i11 destructive to citizens, it js extremely profitable
to the priesthood, who owe much of their riches to legacies
procured by it. Morality is not quite so highly advantaged
by it. Experience provee, that most Christians live in se-
curity, and postpone till death their reconciliation with
By means of a late repentance,. and largesses to the
priesthood, their faults are expiated, and they are permitted
to hope, that Heaven will forget the accumqlated criJ)les of
a long and wicked life.
Death itself does not terminate the of the priest-
hood in certain sects, which find means to make money
even out of the dead bodies of their · ,These, for
a sufficient sum, are permitted to be deposited in temples,
where.they have the privilege of spreading infection and
disease. The sacerdotal. power. .still further. The
prayers the church are purchased at a dear rate, to de-
liver the souls, from their
inflicted in.the other world, for their purification. Happy
they who in a religion, whose priests, being fa-
vourites with God, can be hired to prevail on hifll to remit
the punishments which his immutable justice
to inflict.·
...
.. Digitize byGoogle
•
'
v.
· Books menttoned by the Fathers, and other
ent said to hQVe been by Jesus
Chris,t, his Apostles, and other Disciples.
.JF.SUS CHRIST.
A Letter written with hisown
hand to Abgaru.s king of
Edessa.
An Epistle to Peter and
• Paul. . '
The Parables aud of
Christ.
A lJymn which .Christ $e-
cretly taught his Di&ciples
and Apostles. ·
A Book of the Magic of
· Christ, or.We Art whereby
he wrought his Miracles.
A Book of the Nativi!r of
Jesus, .of_ the Holy
his Mother, and her Mid-
wife. ,
A Letter written by Christ,
and dropt down from Hea-
ven in the 6th Century.
MARY.
An Epistle to Ignatius.
Another Epistle to the Sici-
lians. .
A Book ol the Nativity of
the Virgin.
The J,Jook of the Virgin
·.,ary anc,i.her Midwife.
. The .History and Traditions
of Mary. '
_
The Book of Mary, concern-
the Miraclo .of Cbris4'
aod the Ring pf King So-
lomon.
The greater and lesser Ques-·
tions of Mary.
The Book of the Progeny of
.Mary.
PETER.
The Gospel of Peter.
....-Acts'of Peter.
-- Revelation of Peter. '
Aoother Revelatio.n.
The Epistle of Peter to Cle-
mens.
The Disputation of Peter and
Appion.
The Doctrine of Peter. ,
- ··-Preaching of Peter.
-Liturgy.of Peter.
-Itineraryof Peter.
-Judgment
The Gos}1'el'of Andrew.
-.Actaof An4re,w..
JAMES.
The Gospel of
-Liturgy of James.
A Book on the Death of the
Virgin•
JOHN•.
The Acts of Joha.
Digitized.by Google
•
'
Anothet GosJK:l ofJohn.
The Itinerary.ofJohn,
-Liturgy of John.
-Traditions ofJohn•
....:..Epistle of John to the ·
Hydropic. ·
A Book on the Death of
Mary• .
The Memorial of Jesus
Christ, and his Descent
from the Cross.
Another Revelation of John.
BARTHOLOMEW.
The'Gospel'of Bartholomew•
PHILIP.
The Gospel ofPhilip.
-Acts o( Philip.
THOMAS.
The Gospel ofThomas.
-Acts of Thomas.
-Book of the infancy of
Christ.
-Revelations of Thomas.
-Itinerary ofThomas.
MATTHEW.
A Book ofthe Infancy. ·
The Liturgy of·Matthew.
MARit.
THADDEUS.
'the Gospel of
MATTHlAS. ·
The Gospel of ·
-Tradition, of Matthias.
- · -· A.cita'of Matthias.
PAUL.
The of Paul.
-Acts of Paul and
Thecla. . . . .
..:...,... Epistle' to the Laocliw
ceans. .
A Third Epistle to the Thesw
salonians. ·
A Third Epistle· to the Ct>-
rinthia:ns. .
An Epistle from the Corin.;
thians, with Paul"a Answer.
The Epistles tO and from
Seneca.
The Revelations of Paul.;
Another Revelation,
The Visions of Paul.
-Anabaction ofPaul.
-The Gospel of Paul.
-Preaching ofPaul.
__:.Narrative
the charming of Vt-
pers.
--Precepts of Peter and
PauL
BARNABAS.
The Liturgy of Mark.
-Gospel ofthe Egy:ptians. The of Barnabas.
-Passion ofBarnabas. -Epistle of Barnabas.
When we find Christianity at its very commencement,
inundated with so many Gospeli, Epistles, Revelations, &c.
the greater part of which are as authentic by: a
vut majonty of Christians of the pieaent day, by what
oigitizea · y
.
Google
are we to determine that •the books received by
protestant& are the only possessing Divine Authority t
.:...The difficulty increases when it is recollected that these,
books, befote the invention of printing, were liable to be
altered and interpelated at pleasure. Printing was invented
· in the year 14:)0, and first brought to England by William
· CaXton in 14n. The fitst translation of the Bible from
the Hebrew was by order of Ptolemj'Philadelphus, '1:1'7
years B. C. . The translation called the Septuagint was made
by/the LXX, or rather by 8eventy-two pe1'110118 in s&o
venty-two days. From this the vulgate or Latin transla-
tion was first printed.in 14.62, and called of Prague.
The first English translation of the by order ,of
Henry the VIJI. Act 27th, 1641. That now in use by James I.
1611, Act 8th.
. lfthe Bible be tlie word of God, it requires notthe wretch-
ed a1d of prosee1;1tions to defend it ; and the legislature _
nlight with as mach propriety enact a law to protect'the rays
'oFthe sun as to protect the Bible, if the Bible. like the sun,
1M: the work .tGod. - ·
·.
THE END•.
•
'
..
