{"name":"Letters And Communications To Jane Townley","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1804__southcott___letters_and_communications_to_jane_townley.pdf","mytitle":"Letters And Communications To Jane Townley","mylang":"de"}
LETTERS,
A N D
COM M UNICATIONS
JOANNA SOUTHCOTT,
T H E P R O P H E T E S S -O F E X E T E R :
latefy written
TO
JANE TOW NLEt.
LUKE, 24th chap. 17th VXKSE.
*' WHAT MANNER of Corriraunications
ARE THESE?”
JUNE, 1804.
— w Om -
STOURBRIDGE:
PRINTED BY Ji HEM ING.
1804,
Digitized by Google
&As9L 4A***- ^t*y**—
&Az+t~ a
A**^ A^Zt/edC'&>Mf '
/%rfe>is 4/44*40^ A^te^y
^ A* */e*rzi*£
4 rf£A-"My aAcseykAt- </AtA*iy
' & * * / * * • * * / - z A^AA
J ^ s
P / & t - AA*.'A***f■AtC****t^,
SA
*> /A**~jba*- **2
A
%
u
- m
/A AtAoAA/
<Atr~if^t- ***** //tOA
Afttfs&tct* <f^ ■ ***ty^/aA'
•?/{,y** <
9^ A yo**fA~ ^A--
/?*& 4ifati/u*A2 A / AA*-*k
^ J*L. A- /ffon a t. Afc*, y***A en,
A/hA **09 **pA / i/ /^, ,
A***** -
4 «< /*i> ^ /i£y
4 * 2 &+****- y t~ s£ *AAc**^*7
<
/%
£
***Oy ^At- lAuAfAy* 09*-.
A'A**tyAU*>***y ***,/tAAiA **t- Jj£u*
A o /' on**. *Ay Au*/- *6***,
* /Ah*** AAh*. CAH***/- Art.ft**y*n-A M b
Cf/a/- t f 1^*t/>A A/~ //^ ya
J hJ h
,'. /„ /£ ^ /£,r*t>*~
SA*A JA fA -99*/ *r2/**9*_.
tftt^*7*H* AA^A/** //^ </<*/•/A ^ „
M** ^ voh'j U AAC;
SAy W *A Ac** A A
**A
^ ^
4 h9 */bA,A~ **»**/*/*
cK jutjA ^r /A***-W 4 i/ A
*
vAy /Zoy+r- ,9h*uh^ **^
* • & , /A y * A * ,A « # ^
/% * * ^ V ~ /
//~A ~ 2 aJ Z * J X
^ f*A y ~> &Z'f**<xy»T
^yM t+A^j
/%**■ *?&yvfre.^. IF ■- D
ig
itiz
e
db
yGoogle
I
LETTERS, &
c.
•M M M m
Dear MUfToumley,
w H A T new wonders are
daily presented before my view!. I dare not suf­
fer myself to indulge a thought of them; if I
did, I could not write, or keep my senses: but if
we go one step from the directions the Lord hath
given to me, we are lost in time, and to all Eter­
nity {— fallen frotn the height of happiness, to. the
depth of misery and woe. W e must stand by
Eve's first words; but we are lost, if we comply,
as she did, togo onestepfurther afterwards. I would
sooner go to the flames as a martyr, than go one
step from the directions the Lord hath given me
concerning my T rial— and you must charge my
friends, for their lives, N E VE R to consent to
ANY PROPOSALS made by any man; but say,
Digitized by Google
4
as the Lord.' hath commanded it ,,are M U ST
O B E Y ; for, if they consent any other way, they'
shall never see me:, for I am determined to abide
3<
S«m3 . by Eve’Sfirst words, and no arts o f the serpent can
' work in man, shall ever make me go to the second:
for had she abided by the first, “ TAr Lord batb
fofbidden it," ahd stood to her word, she could not
have fallen— and now the devil will come in men,
instead of the serpent, to try me. Therefore,
we must stand to Eve’s first words, and then w e
shall not fall I hope, by the next post, you will
be able to send them all the joys that are set be­
fore them, and then let them judge for themselves;
if they would run so fatal a hazard, as to go one
step of their own, to do either good or evil. I am
forbid from everspeaking to man any more, before
I meet them in my Trial— so I cannot see friend
or foe, and no man must come in ray presence be-
, fore I go to begin my journey, and then I must
pot speak to any man upon the road— and when
I arive to take my Trial, there is not onoofmy men
friends must come to see me, before they meet me'
in the room—=and then those that are against m e
. must enter first, having such strict charges given
me; and knowing that how the serpent would
try in man to betray me, to make me disobey. I
began, this morning, to ponder in my,heart what
Arts he could use in man to accomplish it; but
thought to myself, he might use his arts in this
way— to tempt men, they ought to have me first
to be tried by medical men< to see if I was in my
« senses; but that I thought the devil would be
easily foiled there, as they were to contend with
the Twenty-four chosen men first— and if they
would not consent to that— then, they wtmld give
it up that all is right: as you, as well as so many
Digitized by L s o o g l e
a 7
* . ' *
*
witnesses can prove my senses as good as ever, and
my understanding much clearer. Another thought
came into my head, they might make a search after
me, to resolve to find me, and then I was deter­
mined in my mind, not to see them, for I would
shut my eyes, and keep fa6t my mouth— that it
was not all the arts of men and devils should
make me open.either: fo ri would not look on.
them, as Eve did on the serpent; nor dispute with ,
them, as she did with the serpent, I am writing
you my simple thoughts, because the answer to
them is’ deep and weighty; for I was ordered
to pen the ponderings of my heart.
v Adieu.
JO AN N A SOU.rHCOTT.
Ifbe answer of the Spirit to the above pondering* of
Joanna's heart•
° NOW this has been the pondering heart ofthee-^
Jiow thou wouldst act sooner than disobey?
And from thy heart HI now appear,*
And prove that men are devils here;
If they would have thee disobey,
And let the serpent now to say, ,
It is a fever of thy brain,
That thou with men do thus contend
Thy Makers will for to obey ;
r
Jhey all shall find the woman’s free
From the temptations of the Fall,
And from that guilt, I tell you all—
And so by her the serpent’s cast:—
But now in man he strong does burst:
t So *tis with man she must contend ;
Became thejtevil’s nowin men--
And like the*serpent do appear,—.
^ A
Digitized by Google
• ^
6
And now from fPaul I*Hanswerhcre,
That My simplicity 19come
T o shew you in the woman’s fonn
FM come the world for to redeem.
From Adames fall, l now tell men—
Aad1now Hf tell you of the Law,
Under the fall yog all must know,
You all 9tand tainted by the fall;
But now’s the time, I tell you all,
I will redeem you from that curse,
For here the serpent now is cast—
In true simplicity she's coijie.
That is, in CHRIST to guide her hand
In true obedience to appear—
And' now, Oh men, you must take care
Y ou are not in the serpent’s form ;
Then here's a sin you don’t discern,
Sostrong against the HOLV GHOST*
If any man so bold should burst;
As in her heart she’th ponder’d here,
From hell that man Icannot clear;
For there he ever must remain,
Worse than the dev.il you see plain.
That miu in boldness must become;
Fornow Pll answer unto man . —
Had1sata& in the serpent’s form,
Gone to the woman then unknown.
And said he’d sting heF then to death,
If she refus’d the fruit to taste !—
And shew’d her then his pois’nous spear*
Then soon in hell he should appear:
Because no blame could be in her—
She cat the Fruit her life to spar4 ; '
Or, else, I say* her life to save,—
When 1 had said, she should not live;
If in M y Power he had come,
I say, My honour’t must be gone
To lei him reign another day,
*N o, ’twas by arts he did betray.
And they by arts may try the same,
But know, vain man* if ere you come
In any Violence to appear:
As I’ve pronounc'd by satan’s spear,
Your sins against the HOLY GHOST,
Coer. U cbtp. 3vene,—• G
ahtiaai* 4chip. 4vena, ^
7
And you in hell a*e<e*er lost,
because much bolder you must corner
Than ever satan did assume;
And ’twas by artshe did condemn.
That be MY people could betray ;
And so by arts he came to thce,
With every fotal threatening there;
But never did to thee appear.:
Because that power i forbad,—
And ne’er would let him to proceed*—
*
And now the same, Isay toman,
I’ll give them leave to act like him,
In every threatening to appear;
But ne’er approach thy person here.
If tfiey can make thee to comply
With all the arts that theycan try s /
Then VU not cast the blame.on man,
Jf they can pluck thee from MY HAND,
By any arts, or threatening*, here ;
But if in Power they do appear,
Thinking by Power thus to do;
Thy silence every soul shall know.
Because as thou hast ponder’d here,
And there’s no answer men should hear
In any word then*poke by thee,
Nor, yet their face thou should’st not see-—
I’d sooner make thee dead and blind,
Than e’er let man that Powerfad.
And soon in hell they should appear,
And they no more from ME should hear—
And no mor* mercy they should see,
Than they would hear, and see in thee.—
For now I’ve brought the cause to man,
To prove thcend how all will stand:
For as that chapter doth appear,
Man is the serpent; I say here;
For My simplicity is come,
T o bring the cause, and now try man,
W hat they would be in satan’s room :
For strongly in them now he’s come—
The simple woman to betray,
And make her now’to disobey;
With every art that they can do,
1 now allow them to pursue.
Without a violence to appear;
Or, ere approach thy person here;
Digitized by L , o o Q [ e
. »* .
8
Unless Ihey make theeto comply
By thy consent, and Me deny.—
But in thy heart I well do know,
Thou say^t no arts can ever do—
If they like satan should appear,
To send the greatest.offers here:
As he would ’vemade thee Queen of hell;
And man on earth the same should swell, .
To say they’d make the Queen the same,
They’d findtn thee an equal scorn.—
They with their Gold may perish here,
And all their threatenings thou'lfnot fear—
For My command thou Wilt obey
Nor Earth, nor Hell should alter thee;
Before thou had’st seen the perfect end,
To no one living thou wilt bend;
But My command thou wilt obey—
Then hear the words I now do say—
Fve brought the woman to your view,
T is for your good you all shall know:
If by her words you now do stand,
Then Paradise you may command.—
For now the serpent is in man,
With*11 the rage of hell he's come,
To see if he can me betray
By any arts brought round this way.--*
I gave him leave to work bis will
And try his power and his skill
With all the art, he can invent,
To work in roan is My consent:—
Thy every virtues fbr to try,
To see if thou wilt e'er comply
To fiewproposals made by man
Then I will own like Eve thou'st done.
But if like Eve thoult not appear,
With all thrir threatening malice here:
But to her first words thou wilt stand,
And say it is the LORD'S command;
The waif the trial now is plac'd:
And then thegood Eruit they shall taste.
But one step further must not g o ; «
For there the woman found her woe—
And there your woes, 1say would come,
If now onestep is giv’n up to man,
From any way the trial's plac’d ;
For then the Evil it would burst,
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
And every woe must come op man*
fo r then I say, you’reail undone.
But if you stand unto MY word
Y ou ’ll find M Easa Powerful GOD,
T o bring REDEMPTION unto man,
And find My Kingdom \§ nigh at Hand—
• Because mankind I well do know,
W hen they zrzconvinccd they wrong did go;,
T o seek by arts for to betray,
I know in mourning then they’ll lay;
And all themselves they’ll highly blame,
And then the Serpent 1 shall shame—
And tell him for to act like men, _
Weep and repent of what he ’th done:
. For he shall grieve mankind no more,
I ’ll rid him of this earthly shore;
And claim the kingdoms all my own,
And men as Earthly Gods shall come—
And Paradise on Earth shaU see. '
— So here’s the mystery of tht*Fall:
For the first words I tell you all,
Must in the woman now appear;
W ith'M y Command, must all stop there-**
And then the Serpent must be cast,
And lie in hell with ragemay burst:
Because I know heVe had his time,
And now he’ll find I will HAVE MINE*
For so the ending shall appear*
And know I always told thee here,
When I redeem’d you from the Fall
Y ou must come back to Adam’s call—
For the Creation’t must appear
When I do come the whole to clear.—
' And can it be another way ?
I ask, My Honor, how’t must lay*
To be a Helpmate then for man;
As I pronounc’d it for his good.—-
Can man so vainly judge their God, ^
___ __
Should let the devil ME betray, 0s*
And turn ME back another way ?
And tell ME I should not go through.
The Plan I’d laid would never do ?
But now, to do it, I AM come;—
And Satan may consult with man.
T o say atfirst I laid a Plan,
B
Digitized by Google
1 0
To turn it back another way—
They both together may agree
If they an art can now invent
Thy heart in sunder for to tend;
And make thee disobey My will;
Then I’ll give up to Satan’s skill,
That he hath work’d to act in man,
If they thy heart can now o’ercome—
Then men shall say there is a God;
But not in Power as ’tis said;
J*or yet in WUdom so DIVINE,
If they can make the heart of thine,
T o yield to them another way,
Than 1 haoe'laid the Planfa r thcc!\
Now, my dear Miss Townley, must not we
be worse than Mad-men and Fools deserving pun­
ishment worse than the devil, if we draw back to
dishonor G O D , after His unbounded love and
goodness to man ?
(Signed)
JOANNA SO U T H C O T T .
i
Digitized by Google
I I
H E R E follow copies, and part o f copies*
o f Letters and Communications o f
J o a n n a So u t h c o t t , w hich she sent '
to Miss T ow n ley; and w hich Miss
T ow nley has, according to the dates,
transmitted to the R ev. T . P. F oley, o f
Oldswinford, Worcestershire.
Wednesday, June's^ 1804. 3 day,
REV. SIB, &***»*■
I went, this morning, to our dear
Joanna, for directions for M r. Sharp, concerning
the Book in which the Letters are placed wrong:
but no words can express the feelings of my heart,
to see her, as though she was surrounded by the
devil and all his hellish hosts, in such agonies.as
if he was tearing her very soiil and body. The
horror and misery of her was far beyond what pen
can express, or heart conceive, that was not an
eye-witness to it. It has been a day indeed; a
day of everlasting remembrance to me, that never
can be forgotten. I shall give you the words, pen­
ned from her mouth during this scene of distress;
though I was hardly able to pen them at the time,
and scarcely able to write them now: but it is
her wish to have them to-morrow. Here followeth
the words. (Signed)
JANE T O W N L E Y ,
A N N U N D ER W O O D .
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
June 13, 1604. -
. *
BedPjfflss tftrwnkyt
- > T H E R E is no pOn can paint,
nfirJiearfr conceive, tbeborror and ipisery J have
felt, ever since the hook, that is now printing in
London, ‘has come* to :my view ; when i saw' it was
plaeteL wrong, it went as a .dagger to my .heart:
aipd though I was answered,: the Lord-had permit­
ted it for wise ends, and yon’took all the blame to
yourself, yet -the- thoughts' of Mr. Sharp’s fetter
struck as a dagger through my heart and soul; as
I remembered heaving-it&ad, hehad altered the
title-page, which 1 then understood was only the
outsid.e leaf, that I did not Approve of myself; but
when the hook was brought, that I saw he had
altered the whole, self-reflection cut me to the
soul; and, till .the Lord ht pleased) to take this
bprden from .me,! my life'is miserable. AH the
hegventy (joy I felt before, is now vanished into
Ldrtorlapd misery! greater than I can bear. 1 do
not! bfdietve>there is a more wretched being, this
side the grave, at present': for I am fallen
ftohi the.height of happiness to the depth of mi­
sery. ^Instead of heavenly Joys too g ro t for me
to bear, my heart and soul wanting to be enlarg­
ed td bear them; I now feel sorrow, horror, mi­
sery and woe, no pen can paint, no heart can con­
ceive, and, n o to n gu ecan express, what l now
fee); my life I cannot bear. What will be my
fatal end-? A ll the sufferings that I have had
from tycf2 to this day, are nothing to the suffer­
ings I now feel; for I am now upon th£ wrack of
misery, wishing for death, but cannot die, and in
, this-stale am afraid to die, fearing I should meet
au angry God, that I have innocently offended,
Digitized by Google
/ •
not knowingly or designedly, But from whence
came all my misery that I cannot bear? Am I my
ow n murderer? Have I been doing wrong? And
is this the way that the Lord is come to punish,
m e? Was mine false fire? Was miqe false Love?
W as mine a delusion from the -devil? must now ,
be my enquiry:— For the Lord hath now hid his
face from m e; and the devil, with all his hellish
power, has now taken possession of my soul.
W ho shall I reflect upon? I f my sufferings are
that I am wrong, being, led by a wrong spirit,
that is now come to shew himself in his true co­
lors, and the horror and misery I must soon be in
— then I must say, cursed men! that when I be­
sought them, in the bitterness of my soul, they
would not hear me, but do as therdevil said they
would, to miake me believe it was the God of
heaven. Then, by what arts are we all betrayed?
Is there a God, must now be my enquiry? And
will HE give all this power to the devil? L O R D
have mercy upon m e! C H R IST have mercy upon
me, and deliver*my soul from the jaws of death,
from the power of hell, from the pit of destruc­
tion ; for in thee, my God, I have trusted: forsake
me not in this trying hour; but let thy hght shine
upon me, and shew me where the error lies, which
w ay my sufferings came. Is it lor the present?
Is it for the past? W e are all undone: for then
the whole world lies in the p6wer of the devil.
I f for the present— pardon .my iniquities, blot out
my transgressions, in mercy, dear Lord! I pray
thee, and remember them no more; for my trou­
ble is greater than I can bear. The power of hell
has taken hold of me, and there is none but a God
can deliver me; for it is not all the powers on
earth, that are in man, can now give me one
Digitized by Google
14
moment’s pleasure: for, if the Lord do not de­
liver me, I am for ever undone. Now, I must
leave all to yourselves; for my direction seejneth
quite over. If they were from the devil, it is
time to be over: if it be of God, HE hath hid
His Face from me; and, for a’moment, HE hath
forsaken me. But in loving kindness I trust H E
will visit me, and not destroy.me for a thing I am
innocent of. I am, See.
JOANNA SO U T H C O T T .
After writing this letter, she begged me
[Underwood] to leave her to herself, and to take
with me all the knives, and every thing that she
could hurt herself with; but not to go away, but
stop in the adjoining room: when she went to
prayers and tears, that the Lord would deliver
her from her dreadful sufferings; which I did the
same by her door. After a considerable time she
opened the door, and her distressed looks I can­
not describe. She said, she had no answer to her
prayers, and we must direct ourselves: at which
I cried out, we cannot direct ourselves; and there
shall not another letter go out of the house, unless
the LO R D , in His unbounded love, mercy, and
goodness, direct us, through thee. She said, she
had no answer, and she could not direct us; and
flung herself back in‘a chair, for a few minutes.
It is too late to write you the particulars though
you shall have them jn your next. Oh, what a
day! and how the house,has shook?
(Signed) JANE T O W N L E Y ,
ANN U N DERW OO D .
Digitized by
Here I shall go on with a continuation offoarmds suf­
ferings of yesterday.
*fmt 13th, 1S04.
A T the time the horror of the devil was upon
me, I felt I could not bear my existence: there­
fore I desired Mrs. Underwood to take away every
knife out of the room; that, in my despairing
moments, I might not lay violent hands on my­
self. As soon as she was gone, I fell on my knees
in prayer, and could.not avoid crying aloud; but
could not express all with my tongue, what i
felt in my heart:-but, finding I had no answer to
my prayers, I arose, and was silent for some mi­
nutes, listening if I could hear 4< the small still
voice or the Loan.* But, feeling no comfort,
and hearing no answer, I opened the door, and
desired Mrs. Underwood to send the letters by
their own directions, as none were given to me.
Mrs.Uuderwood, in floods of tears, said, we can­
not direct ourselves; and no more letters shall go
out of the house, unless the Lord, in His unbounded
Love, Mercy, and Goodness, will direct us through
thee. She then went and told MissTownley, no
answer was given, no more directions from the
Lord. The Lord had hid his face from us, and
no more letters shall go out of this bouse: for she
felt in her heart, if the Lord would not be pleased
to direct us, we would not direct ourselves. She
then came back to me, and told me, that Miss
Townley was upon her knees in prayer and tears,
when Mrs. Underwood came bade with this word.
Here all were alarmed; and they would do nothing
ef themselves, without the directions of the Lord
Digitized by Google
16
Then the Light of the Lord broke in upon tne*
and I walked the room* in tears, speaking these
words j—
“ I feel my JESUS is not gone;
I feel my SAVIOUR'.will return;
H e’th hid his face, but now he’s come;—
A tedious night shall a bright morning have;
Then iny soul shall.take its old abode,
And, cloth’d in flesh, I shall behold my God.”
M y repeating these words, Underwood foil
down upon her knees, to return thanks to the Lord;
and, in an instant, a Spirit entered me, that took
my senses; and I felt strength enough in me, as
though I could crush the world to atoms. The
Spirit spoke with power and fury, “ I’ll chain the
rebel to his den.” I walked up and down the
room, and shook the whole house; for I was not
rriyself. I could not stop my fury; words flew too
fast to utter against the power of darkness: and
I felt in myself power, that I thought, if he was
present, that I could tear him to pieces; and should
not have feared, had there been ten thousand men
and devils before me. After this power ceased,
I laid myself upon t.he bed, to compose myself
for a little while. I soon was ordered to rise and
write. The first words I penned, were, ** Dear
Lord! what Spirit hath been so powerful in me,
this day.” I was answered, “ The shadow of the
substance to come in all. The horror of hell that
thou hast felt this day, some will come against
thee in, by temptations.— then, as a God I shall
appear in thee, and cast the devils out of men by
my power, as I broke in thee: but as I knew these
things were too high for thee, without a veil be­
tween, I caused Foley’s illness, for thou to judge
it a pleasing dream. Now I must explain that,
Digitized by G o o g l e
before 1 go any further, Mr. Foley’s illness, with
the other confusions, gave Satan the advantage
over me: and, as I had written the day before
that’the Lord had ordained ihe thing concerning
the book, and then to feel that horror and misery
after, threw me into a dreadful state of despair:
And now I shall go on, as it is spoke in verse;
“ And now I tell thee how 1 shall appear,
In much mdrc power then they all shall see : '
Than riow, this day, Tcntered into thee.
Because, in power* 1 did now appear;
And now's the timcTll shake the earth ohce more.
And they shall find ME in the Woman's form;
For hell shall tremble now it shall be known.
For now, I say, I ’ll chain ihe rebel down,
And men shall tremble at my every sound;
For every heart I shall much stronger shake,
Than ere thy walking in this toom did make:
And much more fury every foe will see,
Than ere this day did now appear in thee.
And now I'll tell thee of the words I spoke—
When from M y Silence I in thunder broke;
So strong within thee then I did appear—
I said, that hell should tremble and should fear; *
I said, that marl I surely would redeem,
And they should find me in the woman's formi
I said, no longer men should bruize my heel;
But iiow my fury it should fall on hell.
I said mankind should all begin, like thee,
For to enquire, and long the truth to see.
I said; my power should all in fury bieak:
I said, the devil now hath laid his net—
I said, that in it he should surely fall—
I said. M y Fury now should conquer hell—
I said, the hearts of men I'd sureiy shake,
And many hearts like thine I d surely make;
As full of horror when I do appear.
That they likethee would say they could not bear
The Agonies, l said, that they would feel,
When they do know they’re bruising how my heel:
c
Digitized-by Google
18
And then,.I said, they should repent like thee;
1 said, thy sufferings they must know and see—
And bring their guilt, like thee, before ray view,
And then enquiie, like thee, the truth toknpw.;
Which, way their guilt did lie upon their head,
A8 thou enquired’st the way thou was* betray'd.
I said, before me every thing shoiild come;
And then I’d cohqucr in the woman’s form.
1 said, like thee mankind shoukl surely-break,
And^o enquire .-if the Lord did speak.
Lor, now, the secret chamber doth appear,
Wherp every mystery, I .said, 1 should clear;,
And on the House Top this will sure be done
I. $aid,Jn power now,I’d conquer man.
So gfieat in power now I would appear,
For+nen should^tremble, and the dpvils fear;
For, now the tempter I’ll bind to his den,
And so the home by. thee was shaken then, .
And so thetahric of the earth;1’ll shake,
And in ten minutes this and more 1 9poke—
For sixteen minutes.they did not appear
After.1.enter’d ere I Jett thee here.
And then, to prove to thee that that was true, ^
Brought Foley’s letter plain before thy view :
Because his life 1 told.,thee I would spare,
And he’d recover for to copy there,
The very.letter I unto, him senU
So let thy fi>end8 observe all that is penn’d,
And every city and date they now must put,
That men may judge the manner all was wrote:
Or, else, I tell thee they will not apj>eaT,
The way thou ordered every man to swear:
Because that swearing they’ll say thou!st forbid;
And now by swearing must they all proceed.
I tell thee, yes, M Y BIBLE to,fulfil,
And.now My Covenant I tell thee still,
Firm as the heavenly pillars it shall stand,
For now’s the time I’ll shake both sea and land.
For ali shal! tremble, as thy friends did here,
\nd then, with joy, they’ll see their Lord appear.
Digitized by L,oogle
But in this manner should I come to man,
I tell them plain, My Gospel could not stand:
Because the Jews would all begin to say,
Now the Messiah's come we plain do see.
A h, where's your S a v io u r in the woman's form!
These wondrous miracles for to perform:
O r where's the Saviour that from her was born, *
That ever made his toes so much submit,
T o cast their crowns and all beneath his feet?*'
For now berteath me every soul shall fall;
For hell I'll conquer, and I’ll conquer all.
And so My Law and Gospel I'll make true,
And now My Covenant bring tortheir view—
And so go on to write thy pleasing dream,
And in the end they'll surely sre it plain ;
That men like Adam they are all asleep,—
But, when they see the woman for to bretk
. Upon the serpent in her fury there
In words that all will tremble for to hear—
Thou curs’d betrayer, as thou said'st of man ;
But then in fury thou wilt surely come
Against the serpent, and in rage dispute,
W hile men will tremble,and they'll all stand mute.
JUNE 13, 1804.
* JOANNA SO U T H C O T T ,
19
Here follow the words that I had been writing
on Tuesday morning, June 12, 1804, when Miss
Townley andUuderwood brought me Mrs.Foleys
letter. *I shall begin at the words where 1 had be­
gun in the morning, and their names are signed.
June 12, 1804.
D ear M iss T ownley,
I shall now give you the
Communication that I had been writing on Tues­
day morning, June 12th, when you brought me
Mrs. Foleys letter, wherein it was said, that Mr.
Digitized by G o o g l e
20
Foley was very ill indeed—rand you seemed
thunderstruck at my saying I was glad of it, and
desired you both to sign your names to what I had
been writing; where 1 had began, and where I
/ had wrote to when you came. You know I had
told you how dangerously ill I had been in the
night, and marvelled the people in the house had
not heard me groaning. Tne communication is
as follows.
“ As restless as thou hast been this night, which
is but a shadow of what the Clergy W IL L F E E L
that have turned back thy letters; and thy con­
fusion o,f this morning, is but a shadow of their
confusion that have mislaid their letters. W hat
hurry will they be in to find them? And say, as
thou sayest, they must find them, or thou wilt not
speak unto them. And when they have found
them, they will see, they have as wrong misplaced
their bibles, as thou hadst wrongly misplaced thy
writings: and they will own,Townley hath found for
them what they had, lost, C H R IST in the woman,
T H E H E L P M A T E for man, to enter into a new
covenant with man, that all the old may be done
away, and all things become new; and the former
shall not come into my mind; for, behold, I create
all things NEW . And this is My New Creation,
— to place the forbidden, fruit iii man, that hath
returned their letters, refusing to accept M E as a
helpmate in the woman. And this is my command
to man: they must tell the Bishops, one and all,
that any of their Ministers they may send, that
can produce their letters,-and own they have kept
them; but those that have returned their letters,
' as evil, they must not send. And My Chosen M en
must tell, them, they will not meet A N Y' M A H
to dispute with, but those that can swear, by Him
Digitized by Google
N ew Covenant
X 2 1
that Liveth, the letters were sent them, and they
have kept them. And, if this cannot be found
among the Church Clergy, let it be enquired
among other Ministers: for I will make of the
Church that are not of the Church, if they cannot '
be .found in the Church. But there are T H R E E
that I have reserved to myself, by sealing their
names in the sealed book; that is, the Reverend
Archdeacon Moore, the Reverend Chancellor
Nutcombe, and the Reverend Mr. Pomeroy.
Now, if these men have riot had the letters sent
to them, and returned them, they may have one
given to them; but, if they have had one, and
returned it, they shall not appear. So they must
say, by Him that Liveth, every man is come ac­
cording to order; “ for God is a God of Order,
and not of Confusion.” And this is the new Cove­
nant I will make with man; and that proverb Shalt
be no more in Israel, “ The Fathers have eaten'
sour grapes, and the children’s teeth are set on
edge.” But, now, 'tis the soul that sinneth shall
d ie; for the iniquities of the Father shall do longer
rest upon the Children. For TH IS IS T H E
N E W C O V EN A N T I am making with man,
and I will be a Covenant-keeping G o d : if they
do rot break M y Law, they shall have part in the
first Resurrection, and then, of the second, death
hath no power; for these are the fiist Redeemed
upon the Earth, and their leaves shall be for the
pealing of the nations. And if any man add to,
or take from this Covenant, he shall add to his
own destruction, and have liis name blotted out
from the Tree of Life, to have no part in it. Now,
if any man asbthee, by what authority thou hast
done these things, let this be thy answer— Let
them tell thee, by what authority they rejected
Digitized by Google
Christ to be the Helpmate for man in the woman,
— when they say, as in Adam all died, even so jn
Christ shall all be made alive. And what they
know not now, they shall know hereafter; for I
am come to fulfil M y Bible."
So far had I written, when you came with Mrs.
Foley’s letter; and here both your names stand
(Townley and Underwood). Now do you mar­
vel! I rejoiced at Mr. Foley’s illness; knowing,
if it was not from the Lord, it was better for he
and me to die, than to have this Covenant go out
in the name of the Lord; as I am ordered to have
it printed. If it was from the Lord, I knew Mr.
Foley’s illness would be set for a clear sign for me
if it was from G od : if not, I had rather die.
Therefore, this must be printed by Mr. Foley,
with the reasons I assigned; and the answer to his 1
sickness, with this Covenant of the Lord, that I
was writing when his letter came, must now be
put in print, with the answer that was given me
the same day of his recovery, which took place be­
fore my letter could reach his .hand— by the letter
I received the following day: and the shadow of
my rejoicing then, brought the substance to me
the following day; when both wonderfully broke
in upon me,— the Power of God— and the Truth
of his. Word— as I felt the One:
— and saw the
Other, by Mr. Foley’* letter.
(Signed) JOANNA SO U TH CO TT.
Digitized by Google
Thursday, June 14, 1804. '
Dear Miss Townley,
And now I shall direct thee how to dispute
with the Learned— when a Judge of Assize comes
to pass sentence on a Thief and a Murderer, for
whom doth he pass that sentence ? Thou answer-
est for the persop whom the thief, or.-themurderer
hath fnurdered. But suppose th'cJudge answer I
will not cast the thief and. thfe muiderer: for JBe
sake of the. persohhe' had robbed and murdered ;
because he despiseth them much more than he
did the murderer, dr thp thief— would fyou not
call hhn an trnjusft’Judge ? Thou, answerest, yes,-
he could ijdt' be fit for a Judge, -having no'Honor
rrt>f Justice iri-difrh'; for howcduld he then try ariy
Cause, if he was’ partial in the Law?— Then let
this be laid before th.e Judges—AndTII proceed
further— Would he not For his Honor say, though
I fear not GO D , nor regard the man that was
murdered; yet,' I will relieve this Woman of her
Adversary lest she weary me with often coming!'
Tor, now L Will bj-ing the Cause to a man murder-
irig a w.o'fnin’s hufband— and the Judge refused
. to pass sentence-on the murderer, because1he had
more regard for the murderer than he had for the
man that was murdered: -but if the WiTe is cry­
ing daily for vengeance, wgarying the Judge to be
avenged of her injured Htnband, saying, the mur­
derer is taken ; he is bound-in Prison: it is the
Law of our Land ; and you will not try him for
murdering my Hutband— yoU cannot try A N Y
mnrderer, for then you break that Law— And
what is a Law for One, is a Law for alii And if
you let that murderer go untried, by what autho­
rity could' I be tried, if I murdered you in re-
Digitized by Google
24
a s r
venge?— Or, by what authorily should another
Judge condemn me ? Would he not say you had
broke the Law, freed the murderer,, ana not suf­
fered murderers to Be tried and condemned? And
my love is so great for my Hutband, that if I can­
not be avenged of it by your trying the man that
murdered him, l will nud a way of revenge to
murder yo u ! W hat answer would this unjust
Judge make,; any other tHan this? Though I fear
not G O D , nor regard the man; yet, I.w.ill avenge
this Woman of her Adversary, test she wearies
me with often coming ; .or, $eek pxy life,in her re­
venge. In this manner let them dispute with men
of Honor, what is a Law for ode* js for,all. And
now I will come to the Laws of G.OD. The law of
G O D was to avenge the woman's adversary by
M y Death— but how can it be avenged by M y
Death, before a woman bringeth forth her cause
against him. It is like a man being murdered, and
the murderer let -go without $ny, Action being
brought against hint: as this has been done, by
great men, because of money the murder hath
been passed over— and for. want; of. Love in the
W ife, the revenge hath not been sought after.
Now, Joanna wiit thou do by Me, a
$
>
. the Groom’s
wife did^give up My death without revenge, be­
cause the Bishops are great men, when 1 t?ll thee
it is impossible for the cause to be brought forward
against the devil by man without the woman? for
it was the woman that was betrayed by the devil,
and to the woman the promise was made— and
though I was murdered, M y murderer was never
brought to justice, by any woman till now; nor
the author of M y death. Now, if thou givest
up the Cause to man, to let them, to act one step
contrary to what I have ordered thee, then thou
^ Digitized by Google
4fckest away M y Life, as thou hast taken aWay
Townley’s bounty, and thou earnest Me to be mur­
dered twice— 'But I hear thy enquiry. Is the fatal
stroke committed by thy unfortunate hand, then
thou canst not live? But tremble no more:— thou
hast done right by my command. I know thou
could’st not write, if thou fearest thou hast done
wrong: but I tell thee it was my command, to
take away the one thousand; because I will have
the one thousand to reign in power the second
-time, by the woman’s ordering thre cause to be
removed that caused her fall; and, to shew her
perfect obedience the second time, the cause is
.brought forward by the woman. She is, the se­
cond time, put to the trial of her obedience.
•Now, if thou standest in thy obedience the second
time,'as thou hast in printing thy book, then, the
six thousand that are not taken away, bringeth
, M E the second time to come in power and great
glory; for there is no one can hurt ME but thee-t •
and, hitherto, thou hast done all things well,.for
M E to come the second time aqfl reign in powen.
And, now, in power I will reign and rule, if all
thy friends say, as thine said the day that is past,
they will not do any thing without M Y direction
is given to thee: therefore, I hid my face from
.thee, before they had given their answers they
would do nothing without M E ; and then I shewed
the Shadow of My power; and, if they continue
to copy after these women, they shall see thk
Substance of M y power.” Lord, save me by thy
power! let me not say with Peter, though all men
deny thee, yet will not I ; and yet, afterwards, did
deny: but that fall would make my end more
fatal, and Thy honor lost. “ Joanna, l answer
thee, I know thy fears will kill thee, if I do not
D
y-***-/
jr
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
H6
assure thee, the
against thee."
June 14,1804.
•U
Jl
) ft UtmJl
gates o f hell shall not prevail
(Signed)
JOAN N A S O U T H C O T T .
l* f7X
J
0Sy
^ _ y
*
)*
*
*
%
*
'n-/WA Continuation of Joanna's History, A*~*-
' ' ^ ' .
. ------“ A large Crock, or Pot of Gold. And
now, fatd he, (hould .I be fuch a fool to go and
tell the man, that I fhould dig up his French nut-
tree becaufe of my dream, and then (hare with
the money. The man’s dream was anfwered,
for he knew the French nut-tree was in his own
garden; fo he went home pleafed with the jour­
ney, and in the night he began to dig, and found
a large crock of gold: but being a poor man, he
* told the matter that he worked for, that he had a
friend in London who was dying, and he mutt go
and fee him, which he did, and afterwards came
down all in clofe Mourning, faying, that his friend
had given him three Hundred Pounds, and as he
liked the little fpot he lived in, he would buy it.
So he bought hisHoufe and Garden-land for ever.
Then he faid he would alter his Garden, and dig
up the French Nut Tree, where he found a large
Cheft of Gold under the Crock of Gold. He could
then boldly claim, it his own, and rewarded the
man that told him his dream. He left a great
deal to. the poor when he died, and houfes for
them to live in.------But to return to ray Father’s
f dream -^ou mutt underttand, that when my Fa-
l^er l^'s dream, was in GetQiam, fourteen
miles from Heavy-tree, and my Father knew
nothing of my fealing up my writings, till a
month after I came to Heavy-tree, and furprized
Digitized by L , o o Q L e
us by faying he came in the BHhop’s Carriage, at
w hich we all laughed. He faid, if he did not
com e in it, he rode behind it, which was true; for
th e Biihop had been out an airing, and his car­
riage overtook my father, when he ordered his
coachman to flop, as he faw my father going
towards ExrtfT, and enquired how far he was
g o in g : he faid, to Heavy-tree, to Mr. Wolland’s,
to fee his daughter; that he came from Getfham.
T h e Biihop then ordered hi*' fervant to alight
from his horfe, and affift my father to get up be­
hind his carriage. M y father then enquired of
the fervant, who the gentleman was, that he might
know how to return him thanks when he alighted.
T h e fervant answered, it was the Biihop of Exeter.
M y father faid, he was glad he afked; or.elfe he
fhould have thanked his Honor, in(lead of his
Lordihip. Mr.Wolland told my father, the fervant
only mocked him; for he thought the Biihop would
not have condefcended, in that manner, to have
(lopped his coach to take up a poor man: though
that Biihop bore a moil noble character, for it was
Biihop Bulier. When he had baffled my father
about it, he faid he would go to the turnpike, and
know what gentleman went through at that time
with his coach; the turnpike-man faid, like the
fervant, it was the Biihop: at which we were fur-
prifed, and he furpriled us with the dream that is
mentioned, as we knew it was the fame night I
fealed up my writings. I mentioned this (imple
thing, as both are deeply explained to me. And
now I am ordered to go on with the biftory of my
Lovers, as they are explained alfo. When 1 was
young in years, 1 had many Lovers: but the firlt
1 indulged the company of was N oah Bishop, a
farmer’s Ion in Sidmouth; as I kept houl'e for my
2 7 .
Digitized by Google
28
brother at Sidmouth. Then, after we had been
acquainted tor many months, my friends began to
be'againft my keeping company with him ; as they
thought another of more fortune would make me
an offer, but that had no weight with m e: though
many people faid, that Noah was a very palhonate
man, and would foon break my heart if I had him.
Thus theyjilagued me for a long timet at laft, I
was determined to try his temper, by provoking '
him to anger, and upbraided him with going to
another, at which he threw himfelf in a violent
paffion that afioniihed me; and faid, he wilhed
the tongues of the people \rere in hell burning.
I made for anfwer, he might wilh mine tliere too,
if I was his wife and offended him. He faid, no;
it was bis fervent love for me, that provoked him
fo much to anger with every one that let me againft
him: but his arguments did not prevail. .1 faw
the fury of his anger, and foon aftet broke off the
acquaintance; though I confefs I had equal love
for him, hut I thought it was better once fmart
than always ache, and time and prudence would
wear off love, by keeping my thoughts in love
to My C R R A 1 O R : 1b I broke off my courtffrip.
After that, they were daily wounding my ears
that Noah was miferable; that he/faid he would
as loon be dead as alive, and he was ill on my
account: and, when he- found he could not die,
1 he was determined to go to lea; for he could
never live to lee me the wife of another. This
opened every wound of my heart afrelh, and
kindled love ftronger than ever, and I was deter­
mined to have him if he returned again; lor I
thought I had rather break my heart by his paf-
lions, than break my heart by my own cruelty
and wound us both. •V?25'
Digitized by
Here follows a letter from Miss Townley and
Mrs. Undertvood, to the Rev. T. JP„Foley.
Monday, jfow 18, 1804*
Reverend Sir,
I muft leave off my letter to you from
Our dear friend Joanna, and make some faint at­
tempt to describe what we have been witness to
this day, Monday, June 18. Miss Townley can-
,jiot hold her pen, therefore I muft take it up.
But I shall begin from yefterday morning, when
she came down dressed in white, and said sire
' supposed we should wonder to see her: but she
took up two different colored gowns, and was told
she muft put on white, and wear it for three days.
After that, she went up ftairs to her own secret
chamber: she sat down to write, but a trembling
came over her, and she was ordered to put down
her pen; for there her pen should drop, except
signing the Seals. She then came down for me
to write, and I began the copy of your letter of
yefterday, Sunday, June 17. After I had wjote
a little time she seemed in great agonies, and said
I muft take her key, and lock up all her books
and papers, and deliver them to her brother, and
see them packed up, and signed, and sealed, by
her brother, Miss Townley, and me. After that
was done, she went on with tolerable composure
for seme time; but was told, she muft go through
the hiftory of her Lovers, and her Father, which
seemed to give her pain; as she said, she could
see the depth of the words, how they Hood a type
to the nation: but, at supper, she seemed cheerful;
and, when she went to bed, she could not gel her
Digitized by
gown off. I went lo her assifiance, and Tound her
arms quite red, with trying to get it off; hut she
was told, she had put on her clothing, but could
not get it off without assifiance. About eleven
o’clock I heard a thumping in her room, and went
up to her door, where I heard her lamenting the
miserable blind state man was in, through the
arts of the devil. I stayed a great while at her
door; but, hearing her quiet, I came away. This
morning she requefted both Miss Town ley and
me would go and copy for her. W e began about
her father, and she was extremely afiedted; but,
the further she went, the greater her diftress
seemed: and, when she came to her Father’s ago­
nies, after his being in a passion with her, that
she was worked up in such a manner she could
not (land; for she had been walking the room in
great agonies. While we were penning it, the
power of the Lord broke in upon her soon alter
ten o’clock, and she continued speaking till one.
Miss Townley supported her in the chair all tl\e
time, and I got pillows to lay on her lap, for I
feared she would beat herself to pieces. The
agony and fury she seemed to be in, made her to
appear in great strength: and she stamped (he
floor till she made the house shake, and continued
all the time an explanation of the Bible, from
the parable of her Lovers and Father; where she
ended and seemed composed, and said she would
lie down on the bed, and desired we would leave
her, and finish our letters for the post. But we
had not been down ten minutes, bclore I heard a
noise, and went up ftairs and found her upon the
floor: where she continued, flretched out upon’
her Lack, for an hour; saying, “ he ninft op the
ground claim the land as his own.” I attempted
30
Digitized
i b
y
Google
3 1
to get her on a mattress; but she said, our Saviour
was on the ground, and so must she. Remember,
this is the sixth day, M y tlabor mult be done.
Here Underwood dropped her pen. I think it
right to inform you, that juft before the Power
o f thf* Lord came upon her, she said she was sick
unto death; and, as she vomited violently, I ran
down Hairs for warm water, but she said she cou'd
not drink it. I then offered her wine, which she
Immediately drank; and said, it was now the time
the vats would run over with new wine. T o give
a regular description of all that has passed to-day,
is impossible; but, that the Lord will enable us to
recoiled! the words she spoke, I have not the srnal-
left doubt. I attempted to pen her words, but it was
impossible they flowed so faft. Your letter I re­
ceived this morning and read it to her, and the
approved it all, both letter and proof sheet— and
said I mull send the Printed letter and proof copy
to a Gentleman here, who has been twice for in­
formation ; for she was told he would be the means
of awakening thousands: and as soon as I had
written these words I was called up flairs, and we
have put her to bed— she desired us to wash her
feet, which Underwood and I did, and put her
On clean Linen. She said she knew not why, but
we mull do it— and one of us was always to set
up with her. I have sent you all I can; poor soul!
to see how she has bruized herself with the thump­
ing on the Floor. She desired me to tell you,
that she dreamt a few nights ago, that we put her
on" the night cap we did.
Adieu, &c.
JANE T O W N L E Y .
*
Digitized by
82
Continuation of Joanna's History, ;j
2$~~~
M onday%Ju n e 1 8 , 1 8 0 4 *
This resolution I had fixed in my mind, to
•renew the acquaintance, if he returned again on a !
Sidmouth Fair-day. In the morning I met him, !
and he asked roe if I intended to go to die Fair i
I answered, yes,— so we parted: but I deter-
mined in my heart to go to the Fair on his account.
And, when I came to the Fair, I met with many
of my acquaintance, who pressed me to join their
company, young men and maids: but I made .ex­
cuses, and said, I could not; for my heart was ftiil
with him. I then met others, that pressed me the
same; I made the same excuse again, that I was in
pursuit of my brother, to go home, but, going upthro'
the Fair, I met Noah and my brother together. He
then pressed me to join him; but, for my^lifef
could not: my hand and heart seemed as though
they were bolted, and I desired my brother to go
for the-librse, and go home dire&ly. M y brother
went away for the horse, and Noah went with as.
While my brother went into the yard for the house;
Noah intreated me to go in and drink with him
for old acquaintance, if I would not for new. -=
>
1
told him, I would not go in either for old or new)
if he made as many words as there were ftarsrua
the sky, or Hones in the ftreet— but the deje&nm
of his looks cut me to the heart: and, when fcwtfc
upon the horse, I could have given my life to.hone
been bade with him in the Fair; and could scared
speak to my brother, going home: which he per­
ceived, ana said, if I was so melancholy he would
carry me back again. My brother exclaimed,this
Digitized by G o o g l e
33
is the way of the women; you refused to go with
him when he intreated you, and now you are a$
melancholy as he. I then spent a reftless night;
which was renewed the next day by a young wo­
man of my acquaintance, who said, the hard shower
of rain that came on in the evening made all the
youngfters in Woolbrook go into a Public House
together, and they had all their sweethearts but
Noah/and her heart ached to see how miserable
he appeared; and there was a young woman in
the room who was juft mad about him, but hr.
took no notice of her. I then determined, if ever
he spoke to me any mqjpf&' my resolutions were
fixed never to slight hwh more. The Sunday
after I was going to milking in my brother’s
ground, and met Noah; he intreated me to let
lrim go with me to keep up the cows, but my heart
was bolted in a moment. I said, my cows wanted
no keeping up, neither would I accept of his
company: but I had not gone twenty yards from
him, before my heart denied what my trembling
lips had spoken; and I thought I would give the
world for his company, and made a resolution in
m y mind, that I would never be such, a fool any
more. But, the Sunday following, he put me to
the like trial, by my bather’s having a beautiful
Pear Tree; and tne young man who was with
him asked me leave to let him go in and have a
few pears. Noah asked me if I would give him the
same liberty: I very gravely answered NO— but
Richard who was with him might carry him out
some, but I would not permit him to come into
the orchard. Here my heart was tom again':
I thought to myself, what a ftubborn creature was
It to plague myself— to plague him. I then de­
termined to be mailer of my ftubborn heart, as I
E
Digitized by Google
34
judged it—-and thought to myself he never shook!
try in vaim— neither did he: for be Based his re«
solution to go to sea, but did not go. And w h en
a young man persuaded him to go again, and: told
him, if he had been accepted as Noah bad* b e
would try again, and not give it tip, for he was
sure I liked' him. . But Noah answered* I have
tried often enough, and it is always the same, and
all her friends are against me; and now, if I die
for her sake,- I’ll n'ever try more. These words
cut me to the soul: yet I' admired the nobleness
of bis spirit, add was convinced hb passion was
love, when he held me so strong by my hands,
that hart my hands and wrifls for many days—
and said he would not let me go, before 1 had told
nay authors, who had told such lies againIt him.
A ll these ponderingsin my hfclrt drew my love
almoft to madness, that nothing but religion could
keep me in my senses. M y sisters knew the flate
of ray mind, and persuaded me to leave Sidmouth,
and come back ro Getsham to my father^ - 1 an*
swered, No! you may kill-me, or you may doown
me; but I will not leave the place where He iss
! muft see him, if I cannot have him. W e went
to Newton Fair; and I had met with an accident
that day in my eve, that I was almost blind, by
what they call in Devonshire a Guckot-buttort
getting into it. As I was going up through the
orchard, in diftra&ion of love* 1 ran <ny eye en*
tirely againft it, and they persuaded me not to go
to the Fair; but 1 was determined to go, for 1
knew Noah would be there: but how was my heart
torn, .when I met him in the Fair, and he passed
me by unnoticed. I then felt 1 could not bear
myself, and desired'my sifters to return home,
who were laughing at u|p for saying, when I first
Digitized by L s O O Q i e
espied him, -4
'*-there he is, there he is." As we
w e r t going-home, we met his Brother Nathaniel
Bishop. He asked me, what was the matter with
m y eye? 1 told him. He asked, if I could not
cu re it? I told him, No. Nathaniel answered,
can’t Noah cure it? I cried out, in madness, if
he .can, he w ont : at which my sifters reproved
m e ; and said, t had declared my love to bis bro­
ther. I said, I did not care if 1 had; for I wished
to.awaken his passion to return again: for I had
rather die with him than live without'him. M y
sifters went .home the next day, and told my fa­
ther and mother the dreadful ftate I was in. M y
father raved hi agonies; and said, my former sins
ane brought to my remembrance': How many wo­
m en’s hearts have I broken by Love! He walked
th e chamber, my sifter said, like a madman; cry­
ing out,— now it is come home upon m e: for that
maid, who is the delight of my soul, is now wounded '
the same. In this manner my father lamented
that ever he bad courted a woman, and not mar-
ried her,wben he knew her passions of love were
se ftrong for him : but,' after he bad broken the
hearts of many women/he married his firft wife
out of pity, because he saw her upon a sick bed.
W hat I had appointed, HE, the Lord had .disap­
pointed, concerning the remainder of this hiftory.
(signed)
JOANNA S O U T H C O T T ,
ANO
JANE T O W N L E V .
Digitized by Google
30
. . - . • - - • ■ *
A copy o f a Letter o f M rs. SouthcoH’s •from
M iss Townley to the Rev. T.‘ P Foley. r
, -»•
June, 19, 1804,.,
Rtvv'end Sir, _
After the sufferings M^s. Southpetr j
went through yesterday, she was obliged to be un­
dressed and go into bed, for in her agonies, fight-' j
ing with the devil, she had beat herself black-and. j
blue, and was too faint and weak to. set up.. She j
tben sat up in her bed, and went on with her His*
tory, that she was ordered to pen, particularly as
the whole was explained to her. She often fek I
faint with dying sweats, and told u sn o tto b ea * j
larmed, if she fainted away. Her words made us 1
leave our pens, and go to her bed side, and see, j
what a fainting state she was in. After that she j
recovered and grew better, and told, us she muff
go on with her Hiftory, and begged we would ftayi.
up if ir was till midnight, ’for she muff go through
that day— but many things she cut po short, that
you cannot understand, till you see it made more j
plain before you. She was so ill, that we brought |
another bed in the Room to sleep on the Floor, as |
wef could npt bear to leave her. Juft ?t midnight
v
’s we had fjnilhed, and made up the bed on the
floor for ourselves, as we could not bear to return
and leave her that night alone by herself—She
came out of the Bed, and said she uould lay on
the floor herself, and we should sleep in her bed,
Soon alter she laid on the floor, all the rage and
horror of hell broke in upon her, and the devil
(old her, she should see her midnight hour now ;
for he would burst in and tear her tp pieceps-bot
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
j 0
31
knowing the Lord would not permit him, in agof
ntes she lay in'prayer, begging the Lord would be
pleased to shew His Loving Kindness to her again,
for the horrors of hell were more than she could
bear. . We were witnesses to her sufferings and a-
gorries and kneeled down to prayer. She. then
desired Underwood to go and bring her that Com­
munication which was given on Sunday morning
concerning David— While Underwood was reading
it in a voice not her own, but seemed like a mild
sweet voice of an Angel in a singing Tone, which
she-said she could not read it any other way. The
devil then said to Joanna "•curse the words"— Joanna
threw'berself in a Passion with the devil, and play­
ed the Lord to deliver her fiom him. Then she
called for her Bible, and opened to the 52 chapter
of Isaiah, and found Joy and Comfort break in
upon her from the 6 verse. *‘Therefore M y peo­
ple shall know M y Name— therefore they shall
know in that Day, that I AM HE that doth speak;
behold it is I ---- Here her chains began to
burst. She then opened again to the 12 chapter
of Ecclesiastictjs, the 12, and 13, verses struck
forcibty upon her. 4Who will pity a Charmer,
4
4that is bitten with a Serpent, or any Such as come
4
4 nigh wild Beasts.” The latter close of the is,
‘4.lest he seek to take thy seat, and thou at the last
4
4 remember my Words, and be .pricked.there-
4
4 with.” These words were forcibly answered her.
—-‘ ‘That none would pity her, if she gave, the Ser-
4
4 pent room to sting her:— if she gave- up her
4
4 Faith; as he had been tempting h er:— for that
>
4 serpent alluded to the devil; and their Bibles
4
4-men did not underfland. For every man of
4
4 feeling would pity another, that was stung by
4
4 a natural serpent, or fall in the way of wild
Digitized by G o o g l e
y < /SOj£ .
* 7
■
*
* Beafls. But she was the Charmer no man would
* pity— her foes would rejoice— iter friends would
4
4 despise her—-and Satan’s power would come in
^ Her stead to frave the World'totally loft; for
“ the L ord cannot ad but with Juftice, Truth, !
“ and Honor to plead with the devil, and deftroy |
4
4 liim,n Now you. see what a sicuation she ftands ;
in; therefore, she desires her Friends to tell all ;
they have no proposals \p make— It all muft be as
the Lord direds her. After spending one hour in |
misery she was comforted, though she did not feel ;
the power of the Spirit of God break in upon her,
as before; but she called to mind these words.
“ The setting Sun will feel a setting ftroke.” She
laid awake till day light came, and she refused to
drink wine or been . Now I shall come to this
Morning Tuesday, June the 19th 1804.— “ Joanna
“ dreamt, in die morning, that tire devil came to
“ .her bed-side with all the hon ors ofhell to destroy
“ her, she felt his hand, and broke the top of his
“ finger.* She then dreamt that a man said, he
had outwitted the devil by his own craft. After
that she dreamt she was going to some place with
littie Richard Foley; bat going into a House she
left him, and went away without him :— As she
was walking through some beautiful Fields, she
recollefted the dear Child was left behind,
and felt herself hurried and confused, rand thought
she would make haste back to seek him ; but to
.her aftonishment, she heard his cry iu an adjoining
Field; he was crying like a mad Child, my Jan*
ney, my Janney. I pursued my steps with eager­
ness to go where I heard his cries, and to ray Joy
and aftonishment saw a Woman enter the Field
with the Child iu her arms. I ran with eagerness
to embrace him; he sprang into m.y arms with
38
Digitized by Google
eagerness, and threw his Head into my bosom*
th ou gh he would have died with Joy, and I felt t
e q u a l pleasure* His dear little Face was,swelled
w ith tears* and covered over with a bathing
sw e a t.
— ■
** Now, Joanna, thee Til answer—
As the child did then appear;
Perfect so, I nOw do tell thee,
Are my sufferings fm* thee here.
But to make true,Jiefore your view
The Hermit in disguise;
I cannot slay my rival foe
Before I do chastize.
My honor here, to prove it clear
That me thou hast obeyed;
And then my agonies you’ll hear.
When 1 do brutsc his head—
And now to Foley’s letter look—
The shadow does appear;
And all shall find I Am the root,
That do these branches bear.
Now Fir go on to answer men,
From what is said before:
The agonies the Child was in.
Do in my heart appear.
The love of thine, they all will find*
That thou hadst for the Child :
But greater love in him was found*
Let no one here be foil’d.
T h e dream of hitb must now be seen,
Unto your Land appear;
And in thy writings*t must be known*
I plac’d the shadow there.
Thon in the child, when so he smil’d
Upon my every friend;
And now you’ll find, the time’s at bandf/
1 shall the same descend.
But first they’ll see* I now tell thee*
* I fad written so tar, when Mr. Foley’s letter came.
Digitized by Google
(g h u d '
M E like the child appear ;
Pot now I'll come to-answer man
From what was said before—
And let the Noahs in your land,
Now like him to appear— *
And then they’ll see, the mystery,
A Noah must be found;
And read the chapter now of he,
*And tremble at the sound:
For I said there he ihust appear; ,
And if you him deiy,+ thrift
Much greater agonies you’ll bear,
Than thou didst bear that day:
W hqi thou’st complain, 'tis all in vain
He never will return—
No, no, I tell you 'tis too late,
For to refuse the man:—
A Noah here, HI now appear.
And thy First Love now see:
Because my heart he did ensnare,
And gain'd the love of thee.
But it was I, that dwelt on high,
Then kept thee from that man:
For in the end, 'twas my intend,
I, in that name should stand.
T o shew you clear, the Noahs here
May all turn back like be—
l'lLtry no more, the time is o’er,
She put me off too long’:
I'll sooner see my misery,
Than e’er turn back again.
Then Noah’s flood, the deluge stood,
And Noahs you'll become,
.T o perish in the every flood.
If you will not return.
Because that here the Type appears,
Her heart you plain do see,
How strong in love her passions were#
And so 'tis now by me.—
For I Am come the Lover strong,
O f all the human race:
f The 54Mchapter of Tuiah, and &
&renei
40
Digitized by Google
That do not do, a? thou hast done
Thy Lover to disgrace,
I say wifh lies; let men grow wise—»
1*11 place it every w ay:
Because My Bible! you may see,
For here the Type doth lay;
Now in these two, brought to your view,
A Noah to be plac’d :
But when the husband is the L o r d -
Look deep, ye fallen race,
How it should come so plain to man,
And these Two Lovers see : .
But he the Bridegroom could not stand,
M y Bible saith *tis M E,
That must appear the Bridgroom here, y
When Noah’8 flood do come:
Then see how love did both ensnare,
T o drown the eyes of them*
Because in thee I oft did see *
T hy eyes in floods of tears:
Ana just the same I know ir\ he, ✓
When he in deep despair;
Did say no more he’d not appear,
If he died for thy sake—
Then now, you Noahs all take car6
Like him you do not break :
For. if you do, I tell you true
M y Love will all be gone;
And bring the whole unto thy view,
How cold thy heart is come
Unto the man that here doth stand;
And 1 shall stand the same:
If men do say, like he that day,
T hey’d sooner die, than turn :—
Then sure thy pride must be appli’d;
For I shall Jeave them a ll:
But if they now return to M E,
M y heart like thine shall fall;
Inflam'd with love they now shall prove
Their SAVIOUR to appear:
Because in he you all shall *ee,
I AM the Noah there.—
F
Digitized by L , o o Q l e
' ft/tc C c rn * i
42
T he Root anti Offspring to appear,
Then let the Branches come :
And let their love like your’s to prove-
And then the earth you’ll see
In every blessing to abound,
. In love and liai inony.
But it was, I, that dwell on High, •
Did then ordain that stroke :
T o shew My Bible plain that way,
How Noah’s love was broke—
But here the man I’Hnot condemn,
’Twaa I that bolt’d the door;
Because My Bible I’d make plain,
And prove a Noah there
Did first incline thy heart and mind,
T o feel thy passions strong:—
But in that chapter all shall find
T hy husband he must come :
A widow here thou didst appear
Forsaken then by He ;
And know the man reject’d thy hand;
Then now the mystery sec—
The thing is plain, if learned men
Could weigh the matter deep. ,
Such thing I never would ordain’d
T o make the likeness break ;
T o shew the man, that in him stand,
A Noah then by name,
W ho did reject thy every hand
When heart-felt love inflam'd :
And thou the same, I know thy name
When Love did thee ensnare :
But it was I that dwelt on high
Prevented th’ union there.
Because to all I’d prove the call,
’Tis-like My Bible plac’d;
And now’s the time I’ll prove to all,
Your MAKER so shall burst.
For Noah’s flood in love both stood,
And floods of tears came on ;
And now l tell you for your good,
I’ll bring it so to man.
Digitized by
4 3
But do not say, like him that day,
It shall be in despair
If they will all turn back to ME,
My hand and heart they’ll share.”
(Signed)
JANE T O W N L E Y .
A Letter from Miss Toamley (being a copy of
Joanna Soulhcott's) to the Rev, T. P. Foley,
Reverend Sir,
Joanna being weak and faint with 4
the fatigue of the sixth day, laid down on the bed
for some hours, while I was finishing your letter;
but she awoke with a most beautiful and heavenly
dream, though she could not recollect it; but it
seemed to be with the power of G O D breaking in
strong upon her."Here I will Rest from M y Labor.
A ll Old things shall be done aw ay; and. all things
shall become New. No longer shall M y Spirit
strive with man, but I will destroy man whom I
have created, that will not enter into the New
Covenant with M e : for now M y Delight shall be
with the Sons of men, that enquire what the Loan
hath said, and what HE hath spoken concerning
them ; and they shall be MINE, in the day that I
make up M y Jewels; and I will , spare them as
a man spareth his own Son that serveth him. For
now, I will wound, and I will heal; I will kill,
and I will make alive; I will cast down, and I will
raise up; for, a quick work will the Lord do upon
the Earth. And my new covenant shall stand with
man; and whosoever will enter into it, let him
seek M E, and he shall find M E : let them call
Digitized by
44
upon M E, and I AM ready to answer. I ‘ A M
HE' that created all things; that filleth the H ea­
vens -with M Y Majesty— that filleth the E arth
with M y Goodness— and that filleth hell with M y
terrors. And now the Heavens shall be filled w ith
M y Majesty— the Earth shall be filled with M y
Goodness— and hell shall be filled with M y T e r ­
rors. For now, I will break out on the Right hand,
$nd on the L eft: vl w ill kill and destroy at once :
M y Anger is kindled;—M y fury shall go forth—*
>
ana M y Loving-kindness shall save to the utmost
all them that now come unto M B. For I have
E
:ed the Chapler before You, and they shall
w Thou art the Woman; a.'Widow in thy
ith and forsaken; grieved in spirit and rejected
by man, and refused. But I call thee as a W o­
man forsaken, and his name (Noah) stands as a
T yp e Unto you a ll; for as the floodsof Love where
in you Two, so are the floods of M y Love opining
to M an: ter m rest and peace, ye shall possess
your souls, after f have brought M y Mighty work
to pass 1 know thy heart trembleth, and all thy
bones shake: you are serving the L ord with fear
and trembling, but soon shalt thou come into My
presence with thanksgiving, and enter into My
Courts with Praise. Awake, awake, O Zion, put
on thy beautiful Garments, O Jerusalem; for the
day of the L ord is athand, that HE hath visited
Und will.redeem his people. I have visited by My
Spirit; and now will I redeem by M y power. I
will no longer bow down to man, but unto My
Hame dial! all men bow; and unto M e shall all
teen-swear, that they will be taught-of Me, from
the greateft to the leaft. . Bring forth your argu­
ments, O ye flout-hearted; plead your cause ye
that boaft of Learning. Where is your G od whom
Digitized by Google
fa e ttZ c c ) 6 6 /2 ^
4 5 <s*i£*&ils
-you have forsaken ? Where are your Bibles which
you have neglected ? Have I not said it, and shall
I not do itf Shall men set all my Councils at
nought, and say they are wiserthan their M aker?
Shall the Clay contend with the Potter? Shall lie
that is formed say unto him that formed him, what
doeft Thou? I AM GO D , there is none besides
M E : M y Honor I will not give unto an­
other; neither M y Praise to the Sons of men.
Their Wisdom shall not save t h e m a n d their
Counsels I will bring to nought: for the Wisdom
o f the wise men sh a ll perish : and the Underftand-
ingsof the prudent sh a ll be hid But now will l
gather him that halteth; for I have led them by
a way they know not, and in by-paths they did
not underftaod. But now will I make crooked
paths ftraight before them: for now will I unveil
the myflerics unto them : they are the Abraham?,*
and the feed of Abraham, and like Abraham they
have gone on, inviting men to come forw ard-
binding the Cords upon the Altar: but*now the
' Cords are broken; My Ifaacs shall be unbound :
jjo longer (hall they invite men; no longer (hall
they entreat them:— but they (hall ftand va lia n tly
in theirfaitb~~and wait till men fliall invite them :
wait till men (hall enfreatthem— to let them ftand
the Trial, that they may see the N EW C R E A ­
T E D B E IN G — that they may see the NEW
C O V E N A N T that is. making with man, and
know that the Mouth of the LO R D hath spoken
It, that they may enter into a NEW C O V E N A N T
with H im, before they call upon the Rocks a id
Mountains to cover them— lor they (hall find I
will go forth with Fury, and None fliall flay My
Hand. I will break down the pride of the Lofty,
ftnd I will exalt the Spirit of the Meek; for the
Digitized by
46
Jnerk man is bowed down, and the bumble man
is despised in his humility, and for a moment I
have hid M y Face from them. For now will I
reason together with man ; though their sins are
as scarlet, 1*11 make them as wool; though they
are as Crimson, I’ll make them as snow. For
now will I create all things NEW . For now he
that hath spoiled and was not spoiled: he that hath
dealt treacheroufly, and no man dealt treacheroufly
with him: but now his time is over of dealing
treacheroufly; and they (hall not deal tieacher-
oufly with him ; (Isaiah the '33 chapter,) Hear, and
hearken, ye sons of men, who is the man that deals
treacheroufly with him. Who is the man that
ha'h spoiled, and no man sought to spoil him?
Open Your eyes ye blind: unstop your ears ye
deaf and discern M y Words that 1 spake unto
You, that M y Wisdom was hid in the great deep,
and M y Paths pad man’s finding out. Satan hath
' dealt treacheroufly, and no man hath dealt trea­
cheroufly with him: satan.hath spoiled; but no
man hath spoiled him— but now he hath made an
end of dealing treacheroufly, for his treachery can
go no further. M y Sons and Daughters have
been bound with Cords of the Altar, as Isaac was
bound— But now the Ram (hall be caught in the
thicket, and all M y Isaacs (hall be unbound ; and
now shall they deal treacheroufly wilh the devil;
for now the L ord (hall .be gracious unto them.
They have waited for me every morning, and
they (hall see the salvation of their G od. When
they pass through the waters, I will he with them;
and, in the floods, it lhall not drown them: for they
are created NOW , and not from the beginning;
even before the day when thou heardest them
not, lest thou shouldest say, Behold, I knew thpqa.
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
7 47
Isaiah 4 8 th chapter, 7th verse. O ye sons of
m en that boast of wisdom, and ye learned, that
boast of learning, how do you understand my
B ible? Have I not said, I should shew you
N ew T h in gs, and h id d en th in g s, that you
did not know ? Then now let your G O D be ,
true, and every man a liar, that says, he can
find out by'learning,'what are M r h id d e n
m y s t e r ie s in the .Bible, when I have concealed
them from Men and Angels— Angels could not
look into the depth of My Decrees— Then where
are ye vain boasting men, whose Breath is in
your nostrils'and whom I pronounced dead to
knowledge? Shall I come and contend with men
and devils, with'the Bible I cannot clear? Let
the wise men contend with the wise men— and
let them contend with a Fool that is brayed in a
Mortar, and see if he will not contain his Folly,
till I can make my Bible as plain before him,
that a Fool, though a way-faring man may not
err therin. Where is the man that by searching
can find out his G O D ? Who can find out the
A L M IG H T Y to perfection? Shall I come in
power, and not come in honor ? How did satan
upbraid M E concerning Job ? How did 6atan
upbraid me in the flesh, when he said I should
cast m y se l f down from the Temple; for “it is
written I should give My Angels Charge con­
cerning Him.” ? Then how shall I contend with
satan?— To be a God of Confusion, and not o f
order? Have not Kings order in their Wars?
Do they not produce t h e ir c a l s e before they
break out in a War, that they may shew a just
cause for it? Or, how would the enemy upbraid
them, and say, that they had dealt tre acherously
with them ? They were not spoiling, but. man
Digitized by L . 00Q l e
JEtuCofltu- day Tuesday /pJuf?6
Wished to spoil them. Then how can a King
appear in such a.War? Would not his Enemies
despise him, when he could shew no just cause
for what he had done? Would not his Subjects
be ready to forsake hint, and say, that he had
called them out to battle against an enemy which
fiwd not offended them ? Where was their love
and courage, to fight for their King, whom they
found all the Fault in, and saw none in the enemy
they were going to war against, but their lives
were slaughtered for nought? Judge the cause
je learned; open your eyes, ye prudent, and see
that I cannot cast down your adversary, the de­
vil, that is as a roaring Lion seeking whom he
may devour. (But how could I keep him from
his prey, before I had made the Partition Wall
strong against him ?)— Before I had proved My
cause to he ju st; that I had said unto him, as
unto the proud waves of the Sea, “hitherto shalt
thou go, and no further.” Then as a K IN G I
can contain My honor. I sat bounds for- man in
tite Creation, and thou Temptest man to break
them.— And now I .have sat bounds for thee, the
same. Now' see the Creation stand before thee
dead to knowledge, as rh a d pronounced them.
See the Woman I created for man’s good stand
before me in perfect obedience.— —Tuesday 19,
of J une, here ends the seventh day.
Joanna was nowtoo weak, faint, and trembling
to stay up longer. She could taste nothing for
supper but a small piece of .tart: her appetite is
quite gone from tea, and she can drink nothing but
camomile tea. She was often sick as- death, on
Tuesday; bringing up water. The Tuesday night
she awoke at midnight, full of the strength of
the power of the Lord, in her pleading alt his
Digitized by G o o g l e
• 4 0
Sufferings for man, and all the mockery that he
bore for man. Townley and Underwood slept
in the next room. P ’nderwaod awqke; and heard
Joanna very loud, talking and thumping the bed.
She called Townley, and then went directly into
her room, and Townley followed as quick as she
could, and found her full of the spirit of the
Lord: it continued till one o’clock, expressing the
agonies which he bore for man, and die shamefulre­
proach he had been treated withbyman. The names
they had called him, were then repeated by her;
and so she said die mid-night hour would break
for man, when HE came in fury to his enemies—*
. in Love to his friends. The heavenly' words
flowed too fast to be penned, or to be recollected,
all of them: but she said, “ Tell My disciples,
“ the women visited me first; and here the wo-
“ men appear. Mary, do not weep; rejoice, in
in the G od of your salvation; enter into the
“ jo y of your L o r d : I will call My Sons and
“ Daughters from afar; I will enlarge my borders:
<c I will strengthen my stakes; I will break out
"* upon the Right, and on the Left: A L L N A -
TJONS shall drink the cup of M y Fury."— «
Repeating these words, she said, she felt full o f .
Power and Strength o f the L ord . Y ou my friends
have nought to fear; but England, Oh! England
how have you slighted my warnings? How nave
you despised my Invitations? • How have you set
at nought all my Counsels? But turn unto M E,
and I will turn unto You. This is the shadow
o f the mid-night hour ? lor in that manner H E
will break with power and fury upon His Ene­
mies, and set all th eir m ockery before them.
Tremble, ye Jpws— “ Mourn, y$ f°r
6
* digitized by Google
50
day of the L ord is at h a n d t h e day of the
L ord is nigh at hand.”.
•
“ For so the midnight hour will burst for all,
And men and devils tremble at the caU. '
For, now, the my9tery I'll explain to thee—
I brought then on the War for men to see:
And then I left thee at that very time,
o ! And made theA
\veak; and weak they all will find
' The trembling Nations to before me stand;
When I do come tp conquer Sea and Land:
'I’ll lay before them a l l that I did bear;
Fll make the Jews to tremble,-and to fear;
For all their mock'ry I will then turn back,
And they shall know the way they all did mockr
% . Because my hand shall not be shorten’d then;
I'll conquer devils, and I’ll plead with men:
For in the Vallies now I'll bring them low,
And weak as thee, the Nations all shall know
They shall in weakness, and in trembling stand ;
But mark the Spirit—and thy strength command—
How full of Strength t h a t hour thou didst appear, ^
N o Men or devils, thou t h a t tim r coulds't fear f*
Then here's the warning to My Brethren dear, ).
That by the Woman 1 so bid them send,
To My Disciples to tell them in the end,
They’ll find My Spirit so strong in them to burst—
For hell I’ll conquer; and 1 have conquer’d First,
To build a Wall I told you for the war ;
I know the roaring lio n does appear
Against My Friends, that wish My Kingdom here—
Therefore THE WALL I made it BY THE SEAL
Against the devil/ now for to prevail
Against his fury, 1 shall now go on:
Because My Wall he now is breaking down.
Then here’s A WAR I tdl you all IS JUST;
For I shall conquer as 1 told you first’
.
And now My Warriors let them to go on,
. , Tho' weak in nature, but they’ll find ME strong—
Strong to deliver 1 shall now appear,
.And strong to conquer you shall find ME here,
< And now my foes i’ll make them to comply.
And they sh a ll know the midnight hour draws nigh*
And now the mystery I shall here explain,
It is to bring the likeness o f thy dream,
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
I
51
That I did shew thee then in ninety-two; '
When all the Evil Fruit before thy view,
1 said ’tyas fallen: black the veil within.
Then to thy view a room was surely seen
Where was a bed, and did thy GOD appear,
Who rose and told thee, He was waken'd there; *
And thou didst stand His Answers for to hear.
Aud now, My Sisters, you the likeness see,
How frdm the Bed My Spirit doth appear,
t o warn you all, th«* Fruit is fallen here.
And now in ranks the gor-l Fruit they may stand;
*Tis but as trees things have been seen by man:
Because the mysteries you did ne'er discern,
The way or manned 1 to you did warn;
And all as water you have surely been,
To think your God would always thus contend
With Dust and Ashes, if they’d not comply
•Unto thy words, l now will answer here,
I made thee ill, the every truth to clear; '
That from the bed ( do reveal My will, # ^
And now the stubborn hearts of men I'll chill.
And now the cause in hand I'll surely take,
And all the fabric of the eartfi Fll shake:
And all the strong men I'll bring weak as thee,
And then their boasting let them for to see—
How by their conduct they insult their God; , yt
Then now unto the Kings Cshall allude— c
&j- y 4 /
Could I with Satan now in rage begin?
To kindle war with such vaip, ignorant-men?
Then, like the King that l did name before,
1 tell you all, I must come IN THIS WAR;
For men against Me surely now they’re found,
Then'how can Satan tremble at My sound
Without a friend My Honor to support?
I tell you plain you do My Honor hurt;
Weak as this woman they do now appear:
So weak airmen in judgment, I see clear—
And no more strength have they now got to stand.
Than thou hast got to conquer sea and land,
Without My power for to carry thee through—
Thy trembling nature thou dost feel and know;
Because thy strength and appetite is gone.
And so I tell thee are the sons of men
Their strength of wisdom it shall all fall down,
As on the bed thou’rt now in weakness found:
Digitized by Google
And all tlxeir appetite* stall go the sante.
Unless the GOOD FRUIT do their hearts fftflsme—
And then, 1 say, 1*11raise them up again.
If for the good fruit they do but complain;
And list’ning wait, “ MY STILL VOICE FtfR
TO £E A R ,”
Til give them strength, and raise them up once more:
Because I tell thee I shall raispthee lip;—
Thou need’
st not fear— thouFt hearMy voice and *hopc*
That greater wonders now 1shall go through
•And greater Mysteriesduring before thy view.
And from thy Father l shall now appear;
*Tis but the Owls that did thee frighten here:
Because their fruit it surely now must fell,
*Twas but a shadow thou didst hear of hell.”
52
The meaning of this i$
> when I was laid on
the floor the seventh day, the horrors o f fcataq
' came jn upon ihe, and told me if I would not
give up my confidence in C h r ist I should see
the mid-night houj- to burst upon me with his
coming in with all his hellish Host, for he had got
them at the door. I told him I ktfew the L ord*
would not let them come in with him. The deT
vil upbraided m
e£, and said, I was to dispute with
him. I said yes, but not before two simple Wor
men, and he was ever a coward; and a coward
he wanted to appear. But I knew the \lercie$
o f G O D would not let him appear; and so I got
rid of him as before-fiientioned. But’this morn­
ing at nine o’clock 1 was just got into a Hose, I
felt him come upon me almost to stifle m e; but
t thought to myself, if I must die in these ago­
nies, I have done the W ill of the L o r d , and I
feel a happy and peaceable Conscience. I be­
gan to pray that the L o r d would deliver me,
and 1 groaned aloud, arid he left me, as Townley
and Undefwood entered my Room, which I waS
clafl to see— and I asked them why thpy di$ not
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
5 3
• #
c o m e sooner,' as they must have heard hie groan;
b u t they said they did not, till just before they
ppened the door, though they came at nine
o’clo ck as they were ordered, tor they were for­
b id coming before. 1
M——
r Now, Joanna, thee 1*11answer.
As the Fable doth appear;
Now i tell thee, like thy Father,
*Twas the Owls that frighten’d there:
And Owls they be, they all shall see,
And out they all shall Ay;
Aiid so the fruit they shall let fall,
i'll ourst the light to thee.
The clouds I’ll break, for now I apeak
A G od IN FOWEK D i v i n e :
Aud thou shall see what frighten’d thee.
And knpw it at that time
\\ hen thou’st come home, before my throng
i hen evet y thing thou’lt know;
The way the shadows did deceive,
Aud thou vert frighten’d so.
But know no harm did thee alarm,
And none tp thee shall comey—
Could satan be 9uch ignorant fool
To think Pd e’er let him,
Approach thee here? in person appear,
When all 1have foi bad ?
No men, nor deviU, to appear
Before thee tp proceed;
But well 1.know Tiis rage is so.
Such coward he would come;
If i his chain should e*fcr let go,
Then hell should be his doom;
Never to free from misery,
If he that way couid break;
But he shall find there's power in M E/—
r
Thy Father now do speak—
Afid do not blame, nor will 1 shame
*
1by weakness at that time
% hen thou dost fear; / tell thee hep*
|iis footspeps close beiii&d.
Digitized by C j . O O ^ I c
54
Then fear no more, for now the door*
Are open’d wide for a ll;
'And how the Clouds 1
*
1
1surely burst, .
And down the Fruit shall fall;
That in his mouth he now have got, -
The doors are open’d wide
And every Gate / will unlock,
To shew thefaithjul Bride.
Now 1
*
1
1go on from every man,
And Noah they must see: '
How he reject’d thy every hand, -
When so provok’d by thee—■
Then there the man-—the Name doth stand
To make my Bible clear; *
And let the Learned all command,
And tell how’t happen’d hfcre;
That this should come to make it strong,
So perfect like liiy word—
And from my bible 1
*
1
1 go on,
And prove a Noa'h’s flood *
Will be in man; their fears will come
I ike Noah’s heart, and thine— -
And then their 't ears to Joy shall turn,
Isay— to Joys Divine.—
As *tis with thee the end will be,
Where Love do make thee smart,
There’s neither one in misery ;—
For know, a Noah’s heart
Inflam’d again; his heart did come,^
As it was at the First;
Thou heard’st him say he lov’d her name,
And so the end shall burst,
To every one that now do come
In perfect love to M E :
They’ll find My Name to be thestone,
A Noah’s love they’ll see,
Js not confin’d in heart and mind—
He never could love more;
As he at first seem d then inclined ;—
And here’s another door
1 shall unlock, and mark the stroke,
The words were spoken by thee;
When thou his heart had surely got,,
His Anne thou then clid’st see ;
And told him then, His wife was come,
The woman he should hu*,e#
Digitized by Google
r
5 5
Bnt mark how he did her despise.
And said he’d never give
Hw hand to she, ’twas known tovthee,
But yet it so did turn ;
That afterwards his love was there,
The same for her did bum.
So now to all, it so will fall,
Like Noah's lovb and thine;
That do believe this every call,
>Is from your G od D iv in e .------- /
But if too late the door be shut,
Like Rigsby to appear;
She’s gone, she’s gone, now / am come,
And cannot enter here;
Because my ways she did despise
It was well known to me:
The woman he had slain before,
The truth they all must see.
For thou’st kept back the fatal stroke,
_ That made thee hate the Man.—
The poison he had bought before,
And gave it .to her hand—
And so she did die, was then their cry.
By hiscur’st hand betray’d ;
Therefore no devil thou didst say,
Should ever be thy head.
Wedded to sin, the man had been,
A child of hell become—
And now the tr u th thou must declare,
And tell the Woman’s doom—
How she with child, by him beguil’d,
And then the siiame to'Miss;
He bought the poison then for her,
But 7 shall answer this------
Savine you know is an herb doth grow
And there the poison laid ;
He said the Child’s life it w
’ould take
And there she was betray’d ;
Because her own, he told her then,
Her life’t could never hurt;
’Twas but the Child that would be slain,
Her honor to support.
So here’s the man like satan came,
the Woman to betray ;
And afterwards thy Lover came
Satan hath act’d that way;
Digitized by Google
For d o st to flite lie eft dees A®*
By every art appear-^—
And in thy writinpsall may see
Profess’d thy lover there;
Till rage in thee, the Fame to be;
As from the former place—
Now mark the man how he does stand,
An artful foe to hurst;—
.First to betray, and then to say, .
Her honor he’d secure;
He laid his pois’nous darts that way,
And, made her Efiurdersure*
And now to thee the same he’d flee,
If he thy hand could gain,
The Children all dead homnmust be,
The Mother must be slain;
If / ’d not one in love too strong,
That hat’th My rival foe;
And soon he’ll see the woman’s gone,
“
Where he can never gb—* *
Then he’ll appear, 1 am foil’d here,
/ never shall her see; ;
By any arts for to ensnare,
She’s gone, She's gone from me.
And for my love he now may prove
She hath disgraced the whole ;
My honor now is gone that way,
O h! Rigsby’s passions fall!
If he did see the the lines from thee,.
How him thou hast disgrac'd ; •
He’d curse ihe cay he came to thee.
Thy hand for to embrace:
Conceal’d before did all appear,
And vengeance / did miss;
But now my guilt-doth all appear;
What woman brought round this*
Is it from one where / did come
In love and passions bum;
And was the malice in her heart,
To think of wbat / ’d done ?
Could she not bear, my guilt was
Her Sex for to betray ?
I knew her hatred did appear;
But did not know that way,
She so did hate, in rage so peat
Digitized by Google
' s f -
-
w
?& ?*
f
My face she would hot see;
But as a man can / now stand
To turn my rage on she ? ,
N o ! conscience here must ndw appear;
Tis Heaven has trie betray’d ;
MyN
conscious guilt 1 cannot bear,
For now »tis o’er my head.
Conceal’d sb long by what /*d done,
/ thought itaJl would die ;
But now the vengeance it is come,
Wilt be the Sinner’
s cry.— ,
— Then now tet hell the same to swell.
And cry he’s guilty here;
My murder was concealed so long,
The way /d id appear,
In arts at first / so did burst,
The*Mother and the Child;—*
'
/ both did kill by arts from hell
And then thought to beguile
The bride the same to her / came
By arts and passions strong;
And every way /'then did try,
To hold her by the hand ;
But’t would not do* / well do know,
For all my arts did miss—
/ ’ll bring the person to pay view,
For so I’ll bring round this.—
The Child at first, by arts that lpirst,
He surely was struck dead—
And now the same, behold the name,
The Woman so*is led ;
For dead to all, now in this Call
He hath the Woman slain,
And then he thought to conquer all.
And gain the heart of thine#
But there iri vain he surely came,
His deeds do now appear;
In words from hell, how he did swell,
AsRigsby’s arts did there!
So now the two before tbeif Vieyp, t
1n print their deeds are seen;
ThyFather s Words bring to thy viety
And blot them out again;
BecaTIfe that there, they must appear,
As men unlik'd by t}iee;
neither one thy heart can share—
H
%
Digitized by
V
58
’Tis ALL gave up to ME.
' jim i now I’ll come & words so strong i *-*w
Thy Father s*id before * , -
HU former sins to him were come, .
When thy griefdid appear; ‘
How many womens’ hearts he’d broke? x
^Ynd / may say the same!
Became in love for him they dropp'd
The martyrs did appear
Then in the dames, for ME they came,
it was for love they stood-— ,
And ’tU for love, / now shall prove,
A ll this /now allude; *
% Because that here thou dost appear
A suffering Child for ME—
And now the past / mean to clear,
Thy Father’s passion see— -
How all was plac’d when he did bunt
In grief he could nor bear;
HU former sins he said were plac’d,
And then bis heart did tear,
i To think that one his Child’s become ,
To feel the fatal smart;
What he before by love had done,
And broke the Womens’ hearts.__ ■' 1
Jhen now my sins where said by him,
To my remembrance come; .
And now the same, I say to men, " -
My Bible you discern; ': '
The guilt of A ll on me didfall, ’
They plac’d the sin there first; v '
And so my Lovers I seeall9 ^-
In sufferings have been cast. * *
Now aU together you must bring, 1 .
And place before your view; -1*’
And then thy Father's Love they’//see ■;x
The Likeness to be true— * 1 ’
That I the same in Lovt A M come.
To see what Guilt I bore;
It wastofroc the FALL ofmen
I did TH AT W A Y appear;
And so to man I then didcome, :
My Lovers then were cast;—
In broken hearts, they died for ME
Or, cruel torments burst *
All thisfor ME, I plainly see *
k ’t'l
frt>>
i^
rV
Digitized by Google
59
It had been done before;
And with thy Father’t will agree;
For no man can appear,
To prove My Bib!e to don’t stand,
VTithout the Marriage here.”
(Signed)
JANE TOW NLEY.
To the Same,
ThursdayAfternoon^ June 2 i, 1804.
ReverendSir,
~ wAs soon as we had finished our
lo it e r s for one Post to send to M r Sharp in Lon­
d o n , t h e dat being ordered by the Spirit for us
to do so; the following day we are ordered to
take up our pens to write to you: so that you can­
n o t have a clear and regular account, as you have
h ad already, nor Mr. Sharp either— for, the true
knowledge is concealed from you Both before the
Books are out of the Press: and just so stands all
mankind— that know not the way “ He treadeth
the wine-press of his Fathers wrath: nor, what
vengeance was in His He^t;— no more than you
know w hat.letters are sent to Mr. Sharp; or
M r. Sharp know the letters that are now sent to
y o u ; so you must draw your own judgments,7as
you can, before you see both the books together, and
the Forbidden Fruit is placed before you; for you
must not write one Communication of mine to
M r. Sharp, but you may write any to Leeds.
Joanna has been confined to her Bed ever since
Tuesday night, but though the Loan hath cast
her down, H e has promised to raise her up; but
she is able to set up in her bed, and deliver to us
♦
I
Digitized by Google
the words of The LqRD, that are spoken to her.
But she feels the'anger of the Lord iv greatly
kindled, and soon they will see Him break forth
in fury; for they have refused the promise%
that was
made to man in Creation; and they have refused
the promises that were last made to man'in their
Redemption-. But now I shall put all things
plain before you, and I w ;ll make them as naked
as thou art in thy Bed, and they shall find they
have no more wisdom, >no more understanding,
no more knowledge of My Word, thran thou hast
clothing upon thee-—whieh froth the heat of thy
Fever thou hast none, having thrown the Bed­
clothes from fhee. And so shall the heat of My
Fury make them lay down in the dust, as weak
as thou art:— and I will strip them of all their
Clothing— I will strip them of all. their Wisdom;
fbr I am as sick of their Wisdom, asthoa hast been i
of th yT ea; and I will spue them out of my mouth, 1
as thou hast spued oht thy'Tea— and I'w ill give
them Bitters to drink, as thou art drinking now.—
T o have this be understood, the agitation of the ,
Spirit Joanna has been in the last'seven days, has
brought her weak, and faint, and so sick, that she
cannot drink her Tea, but brings.it up again, and is
obliged to drink Camomile Tea, which she can­
not bear. For I am sick of their Wisdom, and I i
shall make them sick of M in*.: ' for the Cup of
M y Fury is kindled against them, and M y heart
is hot within M e : they shall feel the Hand of
the Lord heavy upon them, as heavy as thou feel- I
est M y Hand, when thou groanest under it, and
said, thou sboulds’t die, and prayed’ to be defi-
% vered from the power of tlje devil, for at that
time thou so judged M E. ,
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
0 1
•* And now the nation shall the Likeness see— '
Because at first thou felt’st the Hand of G o d ,
' So heavy on thee pressing with such Load;
That thou said’st satan surely must he there;
Thou felt’st the hand under thy neck appear’d,
And then thy body it was pressed so,
That thou wast* dying, thou didst jijdge, I know;-*-
But rest and peace within thee thou didst find,
And notf I'll perfect tell My every mind—
It was the Parables in all to clear,
T hat in like manner 1 did press thee there;
T o prove the Likeness now in all was true,
* T he rage of hell that night before 1 knew
W as close upon thee; thou didst fed his power,
And then thou know!st 1 told thee of an hour/
/That thou should’st wake to see the Lord appear;
And mud) like Osmyn I did then come there, >
And think \vhat Agonies that she did bear; )
W hen Osmyn held her by the trembling hand,
.A n d shew’cfthe picture; judge how she must stand,
W ith heart oppress’d, and much more grief than thine; -
Because that sweetness in thy heart thou’st find;
And all that .sweetness thou shalt find in ME—
Conscience at peace, and all thy guilt I’ll free;
Because thy weakness I will never blame—
T h y doubts and fears shall only put to shame.
h i T he boasted C onfidence that is in man;
/W hen they’d no fooling in the least to stand,—
, If that My,Bible they did e’er discern;
Their jealousy, like thine, must them alarm:
And say, they fear T H E W OMAN may BE TR U E;
And bring our Bibles plain before our view.
"For, if the second Adam must appear,
W e know the L im b’s wife, she is mention’d there;
She tnust be ready for to stand the Bride,
And now avenge the Cau*e where first it laid ;
And see the vengeance that was in My heart,
T o have the woman to avenge her dart
Upon the serpeot, that did bruise My hoc!;
Because by arts he’ve surely stung the u l.# c—
And now the enmity in man do fall;
*
Digitized by Googld
62
A gainst the wom an’s seed they now are cam e;
But from thy lovers 1 shall here go on—•
Remember him that tqld thee of his store,
He'd gold enough for both, he'd want no more—
Then now on John I surely here will lean,
A shadow deep, that I shall now explain;—
He wished to wed before the time was up;
But know thou told'st him so it Would not drop—
And now 1 tell thcc thou hast wish’d the same,
T o wish the marriage ere the time was come.
But know I told thee this could never be;
In My a ppo in ted tim e the Truth thou’lt sec:
And now I tell thee My appointed time
Jr for the present, every soul shall find;
Or else the ending they’ll all find like John—
The part the journey he with thee did come,
And then the journey he did take no more;—
Because that night I bolt'd the every door :—
When thou before My Throne did’st so complain,
And wish’d an interest in my heart to gain—
Then know the answer that I then gave thee;
That a new heart in thee should surely be;
And on it there I’d build my every law,
And put My Spirit there the fools shall know,
That by a woman thus ’twas never done:
Then the Creation by her you must plan,
If you do place it to a Woman here ;
Or to the devil now, you Fools take care—
For now My Folly shall begin to break,
And from the Mid-night hour My wisdom speak—
But from the Mid-night hour I’ll first appear,
W hen Peter West thy heart did so ensnare ;
And told thee then how deeply he did love,
And thou the shadow in thy heart did prove,
And know at Mid-night that you two did part.—
And know at Mid-night thou didst feel the dart,
That wa* of Love to kindle in thy breast,
And the war within thy heart did burst:
T hy foolish heart was wandering then from Me,
l.ct it not wander was the prayer of thee ;
Unless thy Husband I did' him design, • -
And from thyself thou then did’st fix the time,
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
63
That I before had kindled in thy breast;
And so’My Peter’s every one was cast:
Because that Peter he did ME deny,
And so My bride have turn’d it back that way,
For ail the Peter’s she denied the same—
Men fled from Me—
— and thou hast fled the same,
T o turn it back that way by every man—
For mark, when Peter did again return,
That had deny’d, as I had fix’d the mark,
And know the time, and bring the every spark
That was of Jove, kindl’d again in h e ;
But then thy answer let them all to see—
— u If he was better to them he might go,
Thou would never waste his love,, thou told st him so,
T o hurt himself, and back to thee to come,
If he was great; thou told’st him thou wast grand”
And now I tell them, grand I will appear;
And all My boasting Peters tell them here
Unto the skies they’ve swell’d their wisdom highr—
And now I tell them they’ll fall back this way:
Because the upright man thou can’st not find,
For to seek out their SAVIOUR's heart and mind;
Unless the Noahs they do all appear,
And say we’ll turn and try her heart once more;—
Before by Noah sure the thing was done—
I tell them plain thy History must go on;—
In every truth thy History must appear;
Because the Likeness I’ll *in all compare,
You know at first how that you two did part,
When Jealousy had wound’d thy tender heart.”
Continuation o f Joanna's History.
4
4 As I am called to write the particulars, that
all may be explained, I shall mention what I have
omitted before we parced for good. -There was a
young woman in Sidmouth, Captain Wickers’s
daughter, who was almost mad about Noah Bishop,
% Digitized by Google
>
64
and would follow him wl erever he went; wbetf
he did go to Sidmouth Town, one Sunday, she
followed him upon thee beach, add followed him
part of the way home, and he stood talking with
her. A friend of mine passed them by, and came
and told me of it. This fired my soul with jea­
lousy : and, as soon as I saw him enter the yard,
I went immediately op stairs, tie came and ei*-
quired of my sister for me. She told him I was
v
gone up stairs, because I refused to see him; for,
that I had desired her to tell him, that where he
had been already, he might £o again, along with
Fanny Wickers. He declared to my sister, he
could not bear her; and, though she followed him,
he hated her, and believed her a very bad, loose
girl; but, as she had followed him, he was obliged
to stop and speak With her: but this excuse, did
not do for me. My heart burned with jealousy:
and, in toy passion, I said, I would not come down
for the night; neither did I the next day. I
thought, if what he said was real, he would come
as usual, when I was milking, as he knew I could
not shun him then; but, to my astonishment, he
did not come: this fired my heart with indignation,
for I thought my jealousy was without a cause.
The next day, I went to my father’s at (ietsham,
and Noah came and pleaded his cause.again with
my Sister, who told him I was more confirmed in
iny opinion than ever; and she was gone to G et-
sham to my Father’s. He said, well then I will
soon be after her, for I will ,go and and see her,
and convince her, that I hatG Fanny Wicbers. M y
Sister told him he need not go to Getsham to see
me, for I should return again the latter end of the
week. He said, theft he would wait till m y return.
I returned home on the Saturday night, but assoon
Digitized by Google
■ . «s
■ a
s lie came into the house on the Sunday* J
fled from him as before; hut in the evening
when I went to milking I saw him standing s
the Orchard Gate, as he knew I could go rio
other way; he had an halter in his hand, and
aaid, he had been down to turn the SbeOp 6dt
of the Orchard, and put in the Colt, and he
would not let me go till be had convinced ntc
of his dislike to Fanny Wickers, and that 2 was
‘the only .Woman in the World that he loytii.
I told him, if what he said was true, he would
•have come on the Monday night to convince nfe
of the Truth, and npt have staid away as he did;
tor I supposed he was with her then. He assured,
me to the contrary; for his father had sent him in
the morning all over Bulverton Hill to find the
colts, and he‘had come round two or three times
■ to my brother’s grounds, in hopes *of seeing me
watering the bullocks, which I very often uied to
do at noon, as there was no water in the held;
but he had missed the time that I came, and made
it so late before he could find his horses, that he
did not return home till1after night; and to prove
the truth of what he said, he could bring his,bro-
ther Nathaniel, William Prince, Richard Isaac,
and many others, to testify the truth of what he
said; and his brother, and William Prince, did.
testify the truth: so I gave up all my jealousy in
, this matter, befbfe it came to be alarmed:another
.way, by people’s saying, that he would break my
heart in a twelve-month if I had him, which
brought the sorrows i,ipon me, as is mentioned in
my history: but, as all .particulars must be explain.*
ed, I shall notice one further. His wife that is
now, and I, were intimately acquainted: and, one
Sunday, when she came into the house,! told him
" *
Digitized by Google
m
that she should be his wife. In a contemptuous
.manner, he said, he did not like her: but, years
after, when he courted her, I was in company with
him at a reaping-harvest, and there was-a woman
there that said her name was Anne. He said,
Oh,Anne! I love the name of Anne— and now I
may say the same of my dear SAVIOUR, that I
have been an often jealous of, fearing HE would
let the gates of hell prevail against m e; but
now I know none can pluck me out of His Hand
and now I will say, with David, “ if I am
vile, I will still be viler,” and prove the truth
that the Bible is-clear, and the truth of His wotds
are true to me.
— -€
CThough I’m unworthy, and of merit none;
, I see the me*Ht in my Saviour’s groans.
I see the merit doth in Him appear,
Unworthy 1 his hand or heart to share;
Because my jealousy so wrong have been,
As ’twas by Noah now to me is seen.
And all my passions open now anew,
I see my SAVIOUR's words.in all are true;
That of my jealousy I may complain,
T o let my heart be so enrag’d by men.
Jt is the Harlots that have me provok’d ;
It is the Harlots that did cause the stroke.
T o cause the jealousy by. my Weak hand,
W hen I did sign the folly of a man,
That said from hell the writings did appear,
And by his wisdom he'd destroy them there.
But by his wisdom this he could not do;
H e’s just like Faun the Harlot in my view ;
Because a Harlot she by man was plac’d*
For so they said her roving heart did burst
T o every man; that she thought she could gain*,
And now the empty world t see as plain,
That they are roving after pleasures here,
•And every vanity their hearts ensnare.
Digitized by
/ 6 f
And so my heart they thought to tear that way,
Because I knew there came my Jealousy—
Because professed Christians stood before,
And made me judge my Saviour's Lord was there-*
And that his promises to me He would *forsake,
Arid that's the way my Jealousy did break;
But curst tormentors now your rage is o'er,
Your fury cart no more from hell appear,
W ith all the arts that now are in your vien^
I see my Saviour, and I see him true,
Doth in this Fable strong to me appear:
I see this Likeness— and 1 peel it here.
And now your fury shall no further go,
T o say my L ord will f\Il my heart with woe.
N o, him I ’ll trust, and give both heart and hand;
I see myself doth in this fable stand—
I see my Lord in Noah to appear;
N ot all the arts of hell shall now appear,
T o make me ever grieve my Dying Lord 5
I'll trust His honor, and I'll trust faris word—* ^
For all my passions they are open here,
Much stronger for my Saviour to appear,
Than ere in youth they did appear for man;
I'd sooner die, than now give up my hand
T o any w,retch, that shall against Him speak—
N o, No, my heart in sunder you may break,
T o kill my honor, and despise my fame;
T o say thy Maker thou doth boldly name,
T o be my husband, and the Lord of hosts,
1 tell you plain in Noah it is plac'd:
Because the shadow there is in the man;
But in my youth 1 was forsaken then,
Grieved in spirit I did then appear,
W orse than a widow's was my sorrows there—
And 'twas pretended Friends brought on that woe, , ,
And now pretended Friends the same I know,
W ithin my heart these daggers all would place;
And the last error fata'ler than the first—
Then now, ye cursed tyrants! look and see,
If you once more can break the heart of me;
Just like the devils you must all appear,
And worse than serpents for to sting me here*
Digitized by Google
But noy, I tell you, sooner I will die*
Tbaii e’er my G oo and Saviour to deny ;
Because so plain IJe’th Drought all to my view*
And I have witnesses to prove it true—
-
That ’twas by arts my Jealousy did go,
Because the Harlots they have stood* before*
And made me judge my Saviour’s Love was them*
But from the Fable now I plainly see*
T hey stood before but had no heart of He*
T o make him chgnge H is Bible for to turn*
I see the way the Harlots all become
T o follow after, and to stand before;
And that's the way my Jealousy was there*
And so^his absence l one time did see,
WlMjh hell by arts provok’d my Jealousy*
And then my Lord not hasty to return*
.1 thought my writings every one to burn* l
But then my blessed SAVIOUR did come round*.
H e proved the Truth that H E wa$ in the sound*
And sfrew’d the way my Jealousy did come*
T he arts of Satan unto me made known;
And by H IS TR U TH t 1 did believe his word*-*?
And by H IS TR U TH I’ll now stand by my LORD*
Ten thousands deaths by man I’d sooner die*
Than ere my blessed SAVIOUR now deny*
N o, No,, the shadow it is gone before,
But of the substance I will now take care,
And trust the honor of my SA V tO U R dear;
T ho’ I am unworthy— H E is worthy found,
Unto Hif Cross my hand and heart is bound {
And I will sooner die beneath His Feet
Than ere give up His Lpvt that is so great^
T o be aveng’d of all, our rival foe
That strong in satan ndw 1 know do go-—.
•And in the Harlots he do now appeaf
T o stand before them that he ipay ensnare*
And kindle Jealousy again to burst;
But now tpo late tpe happy die is cast;
Bor me as wirin'to see my SAVIOUR’s naput;
AM t ^ Kpab'f when he humbly came,
T o phice the trhth of a)] before jny yiewj
?»fcwpfeiyww
Digitized by Google
' . s .
Then well the Manger HE may call to mind^
How humbly first HE came upto mankind,
And how the mock of fools HE then did bear;
And now the same'they’re pointing every spear*
T o crucify my dying LO RD again;
W eigh every shadow, and you’ll see it plain—
Because die substance now I plain do see,
T he second time you’d murder HIM and m e:
As Eve by arts satan did murder first,
And so by arts the Cross of Christ was plac’d—*
And so by arts he’d place it all again;
Christ and the Woman once tnore to be slain,—
T he second time the sword go through her soul.
This is the way I know you’d murder all-5*
But now I tell you Christ shall murder iue;
Before my hand and heart I’ll ever give
T o anp living, but my LO R D alone ;
J’d sooner die and come before His throne ;
And there m f trial I’d begin to plead,
And ask HIM how this way I’d been misled—
P is Words and Bible all for to believe,
I’d ask HIM how satan could so deceive;
I'd ask the devil how he could appear
In Christ’s form, my heart for tp ensnare,
And say* th at by it I should conquer hell,
Then now the truth for once he sure must tell;
Because against himself fie now must stand,
T o say he is a devil in all fjands;
And m the hearts of all men he does go,
iMpthing but ruin he 4q see and know
W hile he hath power for to rule and reign,
Then sure the self-accuser must be slain*
Because if 1 should murder now a man*
And boldly say 1 had the murder done;
And tell the way I did to all contrive—
I ask what law would let me then to live—
If I plead guilty; man must plead the s*me**<u
And so from hell, as you do say, it came;
from his own words be now is guilty cast;
And I’m the witness will against him burst.—
But if from heaven you say is now the sound*
Tfctt i#rtyo«r Pontjueriag S4 W0 0 #*will b e fo u l
«
Digitized by G o o g l e
} o
As HE hath iaid to conquer earth and hell,
And make the rebel in his den to dwell;
That he tnay never vex the earth no more,
Until the t h o u s a n d y e a r s are n a m e d be o’er--*
And now Joanna I have spoke in thee,
The truth of all for thou to hear and see.—
This is*the way-that thou mjist plead with man;
Because thy eyes I’ve open’d to discern,
How clear in all the likeness doth agree,
And now like Noah I shall answer thee..
It is the harlots do before me go,
Profess they love MJE, and they hold ME so,
That I must save them by my dying blood;
But ne’er avenge it on the scrpent?
s head—
Therefore their love like Noah 1 do hate;
*1hough they profess to ME, their love is great,
T o have M Y dying blood be all in all;
And never have my rival foe to fall.”
. ’ i
Here we enejed on Thursday night, June 2t,
1804----- And then a Letter was received from
Exeter, that they had sent a Letter to Mr. Pome­
roy, which he returned back without answering
a word,. This set all Joanna’s heart on fire ; the
agonies she felt, no tongue can express— she saw
the fatal ruin he was bringing on himself, and
called to her remembrance a Letter she was or­
dered to send him; she thinks it was in 1797.—*
** And Judas he shall be to mCt
Jf he do me deny;
jfo comfort In this world hc’1
1 have,
And tiemble for to die.
H e must be found an empty sound,
And hollow all within :
I asked the Bidiop how he’d look
£ n sucb deceitful men.”
Because in his Preaching he professed great Love
for Christ; therefore it was said, the Lotto would
try the man, atjd now he is weighed in the bal­
ance aud found wanting,'but knowing it is the
Digitized by Google
y n
d e v il’s artshave deceived him, wounds me to4he
heart in pity for, the man; but as for the Devil
I hate, my rage and malice grow more and more
every day aga:nst him ; as I receive Letters
h o w believers are daily haunted, for those that
are longing for C hrist and His Kingdom, the de­
vil is pursuing with a:l his rage and fury, while
tho<e that do as a man *
}
*said at Leeds, that he
did give the devil a corner chair to set in his heart
that then he said the devil was at rest with him ;
/but if he disturbed him, the devil wouid plague
him — and I heard the same man say, he would
die to redeem the devil, which made me tremble
to think there could be so wretched a being. I
told him his death would not redeem the devil;
for that power was in GO D only— and he would
find him a cruel devil to him, tho’ he professed so
.much love to him, he would not find that love in
return from him :— but I am soiry to say. I see his
likeness in many men; they would sooner bring
' the day of Vengeance on themselyes, and free the
devil from his just punishment, than let the devil
have his due. For they gave him a corner chair
to set in their hearts, because he may not -disturb
them. But I will assure them in the end, they
will find the devil to be like a Gentleman’s Gar­
dener, who courted the Gentleman's Maid, and
made great professions of love to her, till he had
brought her with Child and then he ordered her
one night to come at mid-night to such a Garden
at her Master’s, and he would meet her there,
and take her to Church to be married early in
the morning; but whilf the bloody wretch was
digging the Grave, to bury her when he had mur­
dered her, the Gentleman was warned by a dream,
that his Gardener was digging o f a Grave, to
f George Hey, nearLeeds*
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
ftifirtler his Cook, he told his wife o f rt, and «ald
he'd go down— she desired him not, and said it
was only a dream. He went to sleep and dreamt'
the same again— he then said, he would rise, but
his Wife persuaded him not to listen to dreams.
- H e went to sleep again, and dreamt the same the
third time; he then sprung off his bed, and said,
he’d lay there no longer, till he searched otrt the
truth of his dream. He slipped on*his Night-gown
and went down and met his Cook Maid at the
door, dressed to meet her devilish lover. He
asked the maid where, she was going, she was
compelled to tell him she .was going to meet bts
“
Gardener to go to Church to be.married. He
told her- she should not The poor innocent maid
hurst into tears, and said she must go, for rile
was with Child by him. The Gentleman-told
’her, he was only going to murder her, and tb
convince.her he would go first to the Garden*
which he did, and left the poor maid trembling
jin the house. When he came, he found the Gar­
dener had dug a very deep G rave; he asked him -
What he was doing ? The wretch answered ma­
king of a .Cucumber-bed. The Gentleman told
him it was the wrong season of the year to make
Cucumber-beds— And he knew from the maid
that told him she was with Child by him, and hfe
'had appointed her to meet him there, that he had
designed to murder her, and had dug that for her
Grave. The wretch finding that he tvas betrayed
•fled from his master and left the country.— And
‘now I shall insert Joanna’s dream of last night
“ I dreamt last night, that I was to go to be
'married with my Brother Page that is dead; my
Brother-in-law. He first made love to me, and
'then married my Sister. But to this I thought)
.78'
Digitized by Google
m u s t go to be married by Proxy, as the Queens
<lo. I thought some said, why you must not marry
W ith a man, if you are wedded to Christ: 1 said,
N o , it was but by Proxy, like the Queens; for I
sh ould never live with the man: but my happi­
n e ss would never be completed, before I had gone
through the Proxy of marriage I thought some
crie d out, in raptures of joy, and said, now l see
th e whole mystery clear. One strange gentleman
c rie d out, in confusion and raptures of jov, -she
tshan’t want for money nor a house— she hath many
'presents sent her, and I will provide a house for
h er. I thought they kept presenting to my view,
little things, wrapped up; and, when 1 opened
them , there was gold and blue ribbons in them.
I thought many men .seemed bursting with joyt
b u t one man in the company looked as if he would
burst with envy; and said, 1 don’t know what to
m ake of this woman’s marriage,— I believe it’s all
a sham; while others warmly reproved him. I ”
then thought, that mvselt, with my friends, entered
a beautiful, large garden; where I saw four crown
pieces lay'upon a stone. I thought l picked them
up, and gave one to Miss Towniey, and one to
M rs.Foley; and said, I had found them uoon the
earth: but, as they wese covered with dust, I did -
not know whether they were silver or not. I
thought we began to rub the pieces, and I found
they were not true silver : so I cried to my
friends, it is not true silver, fling them all down
in the garden again; which I thought we all did.
So we pursued our journey together, till we came
out of the garden; and then I lost my friends,
1 knovy not how, and I was in a robm with two wo­
men, that were very ill-looking old women. And
1 thought in derision they said one to the other,
Digitized by L
jOoqle
have you heard of this mighty woman that is going
. to be married.? 1 heard their mockery, and pulled
my veil over my face, that they might not know
it was me: but I thought Jealousy alarmed one of
them, and she went down stairs to call a parcel
of women more to come up, and prevent my going,
I thought I looked at the stairs, and saw them full
of old women, looking like witches— Immediately
I felt the strength of the L ord enter in me, and I
flew like a Bird over their heads, and flew out of
the house.'----- 1 thought they turned in con­
fusion to seek me, and said, where can she go,
that we cannot find her? I thought with myself,
the Lord will carry me where you cannot find
me. And I thought I was carried round, from
place to place ;> and saw the people as if they
were bursting with envy at me: but so quick and
powerful was my flight, that no one could prevent
me, nor touch me, nor stop my flight, till I came
to some beautiful place, which I cannot recollect,
and then I awoke.”
” 2 left in a confusion, like Mr.
dreams and visions with the
.. . v^.aLaw v.i. iv. w»e explanation of this dream
*A**ftl>«*'^nd vision will be sent to Mr. Sharp, and he will
puzzled to know what it alludes to, as you may
' be puzzled to know what it meaneth, to go in print
without an explanation: but the explanation you
. are forbid to know, till the book is printed.' But
I wish I could find the Clergy as wise as Mr. Sharp,
to say his head is now confused, to find out the
mystery of what I am sending: for he knows
there must be some pages kept back tliat ought to
be sent, to make my writings clear before him*
for he cannot now understand them. Now, if the
Clergy were as wise as he is, they would see there
74
nere, Dir, you a;
s . /y/. Sharp, sending you
1
Digitized by L r O O Q l e
7 5
'were some hidden mysteries in the Bible, that
they can t find out, to make the Bible clear and
true; as you will both see by my letters, that you 1
cannot make the mysteries clear, till both books
are brought together. (Signed)
JANE T O W N L E Y .
From the same to the same.
Rev Sir Friday Afternoon, June 22, 1804.
The following Communication is given
to Joanna, in answer to a simple Parable “ o f a
B lack/ 1 The Parable is sent to Mr. Sharp, and
the explanation is sent to you.
u For so My Bible doth appear,
I tell you simple men;
The Parables you’ve got them here,
But cannot them explain.
No more than he the thing could see
W hy thou such things should pen;
For iath e dark there stands a mark,
That no one does discern
f t Had been up on his father’s bulks,
; He said that he could run ;
Because that there he might appear,
In strength he thought to stand;
But when upon bis bed he were,
He judg’d a coward’s hand
Had slain him then; ye simple mep,
Your Bibles stand the same;
I’ll bring the mystery to the Land,
That you may know My Name.
My Father here cannot appear,
T o strike the rebel dead ;
No other waj^ His Honor clear, /****
But bring it to^he bed,
f r r r f fa A ru * ^
far fau/far. *,*4
fa**"*
* / j - f
tVhere I did fell; I tell you all,
That so *t must surely come:
For me to strike the rebel dead,—
As satan's arts are known.
For him 1*11 place, ye fallen race,
The Black’s father to b e;
And I must bring him to the bed,
That first did murder M E:
For in the Land, as now you stand,
T he bulk of all to place;
By satun's arts you this command,
That he may run his race,
T o save his life, and end the strife,
For there liis bulk does tome—
And if with him you thus do hold,
You give him room to run;
For Twenty here he well may clear,
M y Bible he does see;
M y Honor I can never clear,
Till to my bed *t must be:
Because that there, he did appear,
I say a coward first;
And now My Honor I can clear,
T o make a coward butst,
On him the same; ye simple men,
And strike the rebel dead :
But from the bulk in all he’s plac'd,
‘T o bring it on your head,
For man to fall; 1 tell you all,
And he to run the same:
He know’th My Honor cannot fall,
A liar to become—
And plead with he, in lies to b e;
A God for to appear-?-
FJo! Twenty Gods he’d quickly fret,
And say no truth was here.
Then how can 1, that dwell’tb on high
In lies for to proceed:
Ko, all your earthly Gods must die,
H e’d quickly strike them dead;
And so he’d run;to ME 'twas known*
The bulk In all to place*
Digitized by Google
17
And say ’tis man I must enthrone,
For where’s the truth burst\ / Jj
No woman here did now appear
A helpmate to mankind?
My Bible you can never clear,
You earthly Gods must find;
Because that here you may appear,
That number to make good;
And every onv would satan clesfr,
Y ou ne’er could strike him dead:
No, He would run;to ME, ’tis known,
T he way he'th run before;
T h e woman he did first enthrone,
Then how can I appear,
T o say the way he did betray,
I ’d bring it at the last ?
Then ’twas the Woman you do say;
And therc; thc truth shall burst;
In honor clear I shall appear,
T he woman all must free;
And say, it hfe did Eve ensnare,
Then now ’tis come to ME—
I say the same, again I’M come,
The woman to beguile;
Then there the devil cannot stand,
And well thou then may'st smile,
T o see a thing so simply done,
That Lshall here explain—
Til bring My Bible out to man,
For that's the bulk 1 mean.
T he bulk of all from Adam’s fall,
If satan there could stand;
You earthly Gods he’d conquer all,
And run by my command;
Because that here he would appear;
And say no truth was plac’d;
. I promis’d as a SAVIOUR here,
The likeness it must burst :-p-
Gpd of this world, he sure did call <2.
The devil at that time :
Then how that God could he e’er fall,
T ill Christ ati Eve could find,
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
For to obey, as Eve did lay
Obedient to his w illf ' y
1 tell yon all, ye earthly Gods,
You’d keep his footing still; (
He well does know, and so does go, »
To work in every hearts
And Cowards he would make of you,
To take your SAVIOUR’S part;
For Christ to come, and reign the same,
In power in every land—
For now I tell you Satan's frame,
i«2The Bulk in him doth stand—
That's of Mankind, you all may find,
And look which way you will, t
The reigning power that is in man,
i Is bound to Satan’s will.
And this he gain’d ye simple men,
By Woman's simple hand,
And by that bed he must be slain,
For there the Type doth stand;.
What he gain’d first, from Woman burst,
And so he’ll now appear!
He’ll place there Witchcraft at the last, '
I he Bride they’d murder here:
She should not come, to Christ be’l known,
By witchcraft would they cry;
To have the Sa v i o ur all theitown,
And death and hell to die.
No, we’ll keep up our every hope, -
That we had got before;
II is blood td wash away our stains,
We do not want e’er more.
Thus’t will begin in hell to burn, ■
The Witches now he’ll try ;
That he hath power for to bewitch,
And make the Bride to die:— ,
Because that here he will appeaj,
As he appear'd before; *
And from the Jews, I this shall clear,
For so they’ll answer here—
W hat Blasphemy must be in she,
L
t Her SAVIOUR to blaspheme!
(t To say in spirit now HE’s come,
With her to plead like men; ,
" For to appear like Noah here,
"The Hermit in disguise: '
Digitized
5d by Google
- ' 79
#rWith all her Lovers to coidpare,.
*rTis time for to clfts»i*e—
'*It this does go we well do know,
*
f She’ll gaiu men all her own
* They’ll judge the Bible to be true,
u The way that she hath shewn,
'• And we no more, than Fools appear,
Will satan swell thpir Pride;
i know the Witches will appear, /
That way the witchcraft li’th—
Then from t^e first l stong shall burst,'
And call the mid-night hour
And see your Saviour how HETs plac’d,
Your pride for to devour—
My Grandeur hert, when 1 appear.
To make My Wisdom shine;
Would 1your mockery ever bore ?
Mad I not known My Miiid,
That al the last a Pi iuce I'd burst
By Woman’s simple hand!
Because that there; I tell you here.
The devil’s power doth stand—
Now I the Last the same do burst,
The earth for to command;
1 come to do My FATHERs will,
And there His Will shall stand :
The Woman shall your He'pmate be,
For now I’ve gain’d her hand.
The fruit to pluck now to the root.
And down the root shall fall;
Not all his witchcraft now shall do,
For I shall conquer hell:
This very way, now I do say,
That 1 did first design:
The Woman shall ^our Helpmate be -t
Ml further tell My Mind :—
It i9 not one to M £ ’Us known,
For PAM a David here;
And many Brides are now My own,
Alike with her to swear:
But now the First from Saul did burst,
For there the Bride did come,
And David’s Crown that way was found.
And Saul’s was overthrown.
So now the Saul, 1 tell )ott al),
In Satan he docs stand;
Digitized by Google
80
But now within thou dost begirt,
Thy pondering heart command *
—
•
Must thou appear the Daughter here
Of satan just ihc same-------
I tell thee no, it is not so,
Tho’ all from Shadows came.—
The Shadows first from satan burst,
Children under the Fall; .
Then there'the daughter thoumuststand
I now do tell ) ou all: .
• Because that there hell did appear,
A prince of earth to come; '
And by the Fall, I tell you all
1 then pronounced man
As dead to be in i ove to ME,
Or knowledge to become ;
By satan's arts you all may see
Your Children form’d by him.
Then now see clear, the shadow here, >
A Child of his must come ; J e t* * * * * !* ^
To give their hand to David here, f* 4
*0
And slay their father’s throne; ’
That did appear in Saul now there,
And there the shadow see,
• How David’s life were then preserv’d,
By a Daughter bom of h e;
That is of Saul, I tell you all,
So David gain'd his Crown;
And so 1 tell you by the Fall,
You’re satan’s Children lound.
Fallen from iME in misery,
By satan’s artful hand :
And from the Shadow all must see,
How David’s Crown mtist stand.—
But here with in thou dost begin,
In Jealousy to burst; *
And from this Fable thou dost see,
Thou art unequaU’d plac’d ;—
N ot for to Love thou here dost prove,
Tor David’s heart did go,
And other women better lov'd,
Than her thou well dost know.
So misery and jealousy,
Have work’d thy passions high—
And is My Love no more for thee!
Tho’ thou for me wilt die#
Digitized by Google
81
fh y lovers so great, without deceit,
In every thing to prove:—
And shalt thou see that misery,
To had a David’s love
So cold to thine! No, P1I resign,
’Twas but a shadow there;
When I at first came to mankind,
The Brides for to ensnare—
wed with me I now tell thee,
' And Brides they did become; ^
Because that they do trust in ME,
That 1 shall them redeem.
But now see clear, the mystery there,
I am a David found,
The Ark of G oo in all to clear,
And bring the mysteries round:
That I am come to act like him,
For to uncover all,
The Brides that I have got before,
Do now like her appear;—
What fool say they, must Christ now be
To come and stoop so low,
And in their hearts they Me despise,
lake Saul’s daughter they go.—
But I shall say, like him that day,
If f vile I do appear;
Then now much viler I will be,
And come to Noah here—
For like his love Mine now shall proven
Thy Jealousy did burst;
Like Saul’s Daughter for to appear,
Thou know’st how it was plac’d ;
That she despis’d him so unwise,
And folly she did see,
For him to dance before the Ark,
In honor then to Me.
But viler there he would appear,
He told her at that time—
Asid now the mysteries I shall clear,
And bring it to mankind.
A David lierel did appear,
I told them at the first,
His Hoot and Offspring then I were;
The morning star to burst—
6th Chap* 2ndBook of Samuel ^through*
L
Digitized by ( j O O ^ I c
82
Butjhensee dearMy Brides were then*
Tho’ then I wed with Some,
My-Humblene«s they could not bear.
And so despis’d My Name.
So ifiey did die, l tell thee why,
N o Children did appeal^
Till other Brides were gain’d by Me,
My every crown to share*
So firs^ from them, the Jews did com *
And every one did d ie;
Because My ways they did despise
Too low they all did cry;
And now the same they mock My Name
The Brides that here do com*—
Tho’at the first My death they plac’d.
To be the life of t h e m ^
Then now within thou dost begin,
The mystery for to see;
Children of Saul I tell you all, .
Like Saul’s Daughter will b e;
Tho’ I began to thee ’twas know*
To place the Shadow there;
With Saul’s Daughter I then did com *
The likeness to compare;
And thou within did’st tremble th en ~
And all may tremble too, ^
That say My Ways they do despise.
Bring all before thy view ; -
For viler there he did appear,
To tell her he would be;—
And viler here, I will appear,
Andihat they all shall see;
If low at First, I here did burst.
And in the Manger come ;
I tell them lower at the Last,
I shall receive My Crown.
Humility you all shall see,
D o highest honor bring,
And humbly now l’AM come to £hec,
Thy heart and 90ul to win.—
And so to all, I now do call,
Brothers and Sisters here ;
My mother too, before My View,
M y Love do so appear;
Then surely I who dwell’th on High,
D o humbly now become;
Digitized by Google
r
$3
For to invite My every Bride,
My Kingdom for to shaft;
Because thfe Way to thee, 1 say
My Kingdom 'C most appear;
It is by L6ve you alt must prove,.
My Kingdom it must conle ;
Arid it is Love the Cause must move.
The Serpent to coudemil;
I said1at Last M Y Love should burst,
Unto them in the end.
Wheir I do bring Nfy earthly CtoWa
M Y Love to man must bend :
Or how should they in Love to ME,
Shun every Rival Foe.—
— No, Fll appear to answer here,
M Y Sheep astray do go,
And they are gone from ME *tis known,
Then Horses must appear,
That to the Manger now wilt come,
MY Chariot Wheels to clear;
And draw them on, as they’ve begun, J a , /
Like Horses Men must be;
The strength of sheep is too much gone
To stand the fight for ME.
So I'll appear like Noah here,
My sheep are gone astray ;
MY words they do profess to hear,
And so profess’d-------THEY LA Y —
In love to ME, they say they be,
And so they follow here ;
But as their hearts I plain do see,
Their love I cannot bear.
But now to thee a mastery,
Like Noah 1shall come ;
And tell thee of thy Jealousy,
That did thee oow.enfiame: *
The sheep were gone he told them then.
And Horses in the Room,
That he had been one day to seek.
And now the day is come.
Because this year't shall so appear,
That Horses I shall find :
My every Harness for to wear;
My Chariot Wheels behind,
Shalt surely go, they all shall know
And bring ME to M Y Throne :—
*
Digitized by Google
That I shall now preparefor you*
And claim this Earth MY own,—
So now see clear, one shadow’s here*
How Noah wait’d to see>
Thy every Bullocks to appear,
That water’d they may be, (oS
So now to all, I thus do call,
I wait’th for man the same ;
That to MY Brook they all may come*
Whih thirsty hearts enfjam’d;
As He was there in love appear'd.
So is MY heart for M an:
But if that they do act like thee,
And miss the time 1 com e;
Then they may grieve as thou’st belie*;©
Thou surely miss’d the whole,
But if their arts l bud like thee,'
They’ll find me so to fall—
To come again, and shew them plain,
They way thc*y ME did miss ;
Tho’ I was waiting at their doors,
And would have shew’d them thus,—
How l was come in love to man,
And told them of the tim e;
But they did look another way,
The mysteries could not hud— ’
And satan there did strong appear,
To piake them miss the mark ;
As I your footsteps did prepare,
To leave both in the dark ;
Because the thing 1did design,
To bring the Shadow here; '
And shew the substance to mankind,
The way 1 shall appear;
If Jealousy in them ( see,
As in thy heart did burn ;
To think that I AM gone from the?,
Like Noah I’ll return ;
And shew thenvplain howrthis was don©
They ne’er discern’d the time,
And for MY Horses I was gone, 6 S
M Y Chariot Wheels to find ;
That the}’may draw you all shall kno*f
That have M i Harness here ; ^
Because MY Sheep too w^ak do go,
To bring MY Kingdom here, -
Digitized by Google
8 5
No’t must go on in battle strong,
And now thy dream thou’st'see;
How in the +Air the Horses fought,
And then came down to thee;
And valiant stood tho’ dipt in blood,
The colour did appear;
And now I tell thee by My Blood,
1 1
1 surely conq'Jer here*
Angels above, inflam’d with love
W ith devils do contend;
And now below, you all shall know,
They are come to fight with men ;
Because that here, no man could bear, ,
The Battle to go through ;
The rage of hell in all to clear,
Man never could go through -
T o fight with all, without My Call,
T o send My Spirit Strong—
Ahd let My Angels guard the W ay,
Their Guardians now become*
A s’thou did’st say this very day
M y life now stand’th at stake;
And'I know well the rage of hell,
That way would surely break—
If I’d ndt plac’d My Army Strong,
Before thou see'st the Pitt;
Wherein to fall, I tell you all,
If men could now slay thee;
More fatal now than Adam’s fall,
Their ruin now *t must be:—
As once for ail my death did fall,
The world for to redeem;
But how no more let men take care,
1 will be slain for them*
So if they kill, thy blood to spill,
'Twill no atonement make:
But as the fire on Sodom fell,
Shall now on England break*
And fire below they all should know,
Would soon consume the whole:
And all my friends With thee should go,
f Set page 86, of the «eoaad took ofptopkeciof.
Digitized by ( o r O O Q l e
86
And 1\J receive ^oor souls
T o realms of Miss, iff perfect rest,
And receive you all—
And then the flames no soul should miss,
But be burnt like a scroll.—
1 tell you first the Same should burst,
The judgment-day should come
If saian does his sufferings mbs,
And sinners die for him;
'T hen, in bis chair,* they may appear,
And give him every room:
And all his sufferings they may share,
And feel the devils doom.
For he is cast in hell to burst,
Andthere he soon shall go
So if for him you do contend,
H is doom you'll surely know—
And then your chairs may all appear,
That in your hearts do stand;
For satan's peace you’ll feel it there,
In hell with him to stand;
And then you’ll see his chair to be,
A darning chair for all;
T o keep you strong in misery,
Your fatal peace will fall:— „
T o die for hell, that did rebel
Against the Son of G od f
And alL the Angels do know well,
The wretchod paths he trod
While he above did share My Love,
In Glory for to shine;
But when upon this earth he came,
The Ruin of Mankind
You ail Ho know he strong does go,
T o seek it to this day—
And will you. come to die for ftira? f
T o have My Vengeance lay ?
♦ This alludes to George Hcyv who lives near Leeds; and who said, that
lie »lwav» gave the devil an atmrcbair in lm heart, and then he did mU
trouble him.
f ThegangGtorgoHey mU to die
Digitized by L . o o o l e
87
Now all in man, can you now stand
With backs of brass appear?
Or are your sinews iron strong.
That you My wrath can bear
Ever to be in misery,
And in devouring names?
M y Bible you must know and see,—•
And tremble at My Name—
For I A m come in Love now strong,
If Love your hearts will gain;
You'll find a Noah’s heart to turn,
And shew the mystery’s plain:
But if you’ll not, 1 tell your lot,
From Saul the thing you’ll see;
If you a David now do mock,
And say My brides you be;
But do despise, I’AM too unwise.
T o act thus like a G od :—
Then sure to Saul, I tell you all,
You’ll feel a David's fod.
That you’re the bride dose by My side^
And yet my ways you scorn;
The answer see will come from MEt
A David will be k n o w n *
More viler here I shall appear.
You'll see the following day;
T hy history then I mean to dear,
A David I will be—
A Noah too— they all shall know,
In love for thee the same;
And bring the woman now will come,
So much to^praisc M Y Name*—
All hazards run, as she hath done,
In fervent love to M e:
Then say a Bathsheba is come,
Whose husband slain shall be
The front appear, tie shall be there,
The Harlots I’ll embrace ;
"For every mystery I shall clear.
And bring all to this race.
There’s not a Bride, on earth appli'd,
* Digitized by
8 8
That say they are wed to MB ;
And now'despise the way l ’AM come,
But Saul's Daughter they he*.
And now the Sauls I tell them all,
Their Children all shall die;
And Bathsheba more close to M E,
Shall in My Bosom lie;
Because unwise you me despise,
And I'll despise you all;
You say my life that you would save,.
When first to man I call:—
But now the Last 1 strong do burst,
You do despise ME more,
Than ere the Jews did at the First,
So Saul's Daughter take care;
Lest you do see that ruge in ME,
A bloody Husband come—
M y Bible stands ih Types for ye,
T o make the end be known*
So I’ll end here, and say no more.
Until this night be past; «
That other Wonders shall appear,
T o make the whole to burst.”
Here we ended on Friday evening, June 22,1804;
(Signed) JANE T O W N LEY".
From the same to the same.
Rev Sir,
MondayAfternoon, June 25,1804.
It is fruitless to attempt to pen the agonies
of Joanna’s heart on Sunday night, June 24, from
the Parable of the two women, and seeing Mrs.
B------was the woman murdered by Satan's arts:
her sufferings seemed more than she could bear.
W e were witnesses to her sufferings till sleep
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
\
dosed her eyes, calling to us, to beg we woulcfjoin
with her in prayer for that wretched, unfortunate
. woman; for- she said, she clearly saw it was all
satan’s arts: and one parable, she said, came strong
to her, that the Lord would act like Lord Burnet,
which puzzled her mind, as she could not see her­
self any likeness to the wife of Lord Burnet; for
she was as different to her as light and darkness.
However, she was ordered the thing should be
penned, and it should be explained. The next
morning, when she awoke, to add to her further
miseries, she was told, no books should go to S—
before' they had paid the money; and she should
remember, Ananias and Sapphira were struck dead
f6r keeping back the money that was to be put
into the Treasury: and, as Joanna had sold it out,
to put it into the Treasury to assist in carrying orv
the Lord's work; and they had kept it back— her
soul trembled’ for S— ; and, as she had received
former friendships from her, was the more wounded .
and grieved to the heart, btfore the mystery was
made plain before her— and then her sorrow was
turned into joy*' After she had written the letter
to Mrs. S— , she was ordered to pen the story o f ,
Lord Burnet. It was a tale she heard*when a
child, but she cannot remember the beginning:
only, that Lord Burnet was going to'the Chace,
and to leave his house for some days; and, before
he went, it was said, that—
“ Down he called his merry-men all,
By one, by two, and by three,-—
. The first came dowu in velvet white—
The second came down in Pall—
T he third came down Lord Burnet's Lady,
The fairest of them all;
She look’d as bright as the Summer’s sun
Upon the little Musgroves; and he upon she again.’’ ,
M
7 89
Digitized by L j O O Q i e
After Lord Burnet was gone to the Chace»
Musgrdves and Lady Burnet went to bed together*
which the little Footpage made an excuse to go to
the Lady's room; and* seeing them in bed toge­
ther* said* that Lord Burnet should know it before
any sleep had closed his eyes—
“ But out she put her lilly white hand:
So white* so long* and so small;
And care him a small box under the ear*
And bid him go tell his tale.—•
So the little Footpage he took to his heels
and run*
And when that he came to some broad water side*
H e smote on his breast and swam;
And when that he came to Lord Btim^t’s gate*
He knock’d so loud art the ring*
That none was so ready as Lord Burnet's
Porter*
T o let the Footpage in—
When that he came to Lord Burnet’s Hall*
Where Lord Burnet sat at meat;
H e said* if thou knew what news I have
brought*
Not a bit more thou’st now eat.
W hat news? what news? my little footpage*
W hat news hast thou brought unto me?
M y wedded Lady is she brought to bed*
W ith a son or a daughter free?
T hy wedded Lady is not brought to bed*
W ith a son or a daughter free*
But now together both in thy bed.
T he little Musgrdves and she.—
If this be a lie* Lord Burnet did cry*
That thou bast brought unto me;
A new pair of gallows there shall be built*
And banged thou shalt be. . %
Jf this be a true tale, Lord Burnet he cried*
That thou hast brought unto me; .
M y eldest daughter* the heir of my land,
Thy weddcd-Lady she shall be,
9 °
\
» Digitized by L,ooole
\ *
9 t
If thia be a )ie9 Lord Burnet, he 4tid, *
That you have brought unto m e;
A new pair of gallows there shall be built,
And hangetd I will be.
If this be a true T ale! Lord Burnet, hesaid,
T hat you have brought unto' m e;
Thy. eldest daughter, the heir of thy land,
M y wedded Lady she shall he.
T he last two verses are,— the footpage repeat­
in g Lord Burqet’s words back to him again, to
claim his promise.
Then down he call’d his merry-men all,
By one, by two, and by three;
He bid them for to stand in stead,
For he did think there was never moi¥ need#
But one that ow’d Musgroves good wifi,
H e took out a crumpled horn,
And blow’d so loud and so shrill,—
Away, Musgroves, away
O , hark! O hark! said little Musgroves,
1 think I hear my Master's men,
Come tripping down over the plain—
N o, No, lie still, and keep your body warm,
For neither one of my Lord Burnet’s men,
Shall do tbee or I any harm.
Then one that ow’d little Musgrove good will
H e took out his crumpled horn,
And bl'ow’d so loud and so shrill,
Away, Musgroves, away;—
O , hark! O, hark! said little Musgroves,
’T ls time for to be gone:
I ’m sure 1 hear my Master's men,
Come tripping down over the plain.
N/>, No, lie still, and keep thy body warm,
For *tis my father's blind shepherd,
That’s driving the sheep to the fold:*—
But when Lord Burnet came to his house,
T he Footpage knock'd with the Ring,
And then the Servant did appear,
To. let the Footpage in.
Digitized by Google ,5
9 *
Lord Burttet behind, they soon did find,
Unto his room did g o ;
And, as the Footpage said before,
He found the words were true.
W ell, how dost thou like my bed, he cry’d?
And how dost thou like my sheets? -
And how dost thou like my wedded lady,
That lies in thy arms asleep?
O , well 1 like thy bed! he cri’d,
And well I like thy sheets!
But better I like thy wedded lady,
That lieth in my arms asleep!
Arise, arise, thou wicked man,
And put thy clothing on ;
For 'tis a shame for any Lord
T o kill a naked man.
* There are two swords up by the wall,
Take thou the best, leave me the worst of all#
T he first'blow that he struck,
• H e struck Lord Burnet down;
T he second blow Lord Burnet struck,
His brains laid on the ground.
Arise, arise, thou wicked woman,
And put thy clothing on ;
For J
tis a shame for any Lord
T o kill a naked woman.
So he kill’d the Lady and Musgrove—
•
So merrily sings the bonny thrush,
So sadly sings the Sparrow— * ' I
So merrily sung Lord Burnet himself
Fof I shall be hang’d to-morrow.
Now, Joanna, as you have all tried your wis­
dom and can see nothing in this Parable, to com- j
pare the Likeness of the Lord;— the Likeness of -
the Adul<ress Lady, to compare with the W otM»
and her Lover to the devil that seduced her— and*
the Lord that slew them both, to the Likeness of
M yself—-I shall compare this Parable Two ways.
First, to My coming in the Body, as I always
told thee to meet the Jew s; byt satan adulterated
. Digitized by Googk
rr '
‘ / 9 3
their minds from Me, after I was wedded to some,
they went back and followed no more after M E,
T hen the promise came to the Gentiles, or to the
seed of the Jews, that turned Christians; for ye
know not from whence ye Sprung. There the
Lord made the promise to the faithful Boyf and
there the promise stands in My Bible, that if the
-Jews proved Adulterers, that I would make them a.
people, that were not a people; and call them be-
lo ed, that were not be!oved; and give My Herit­
age to others;— but here thy mind is puzzled, how
can this stand a Type with G od and Man.
Then now in -verse 1 will begin,
And prove the likeness of the thing:
When to the world I did Appear,
Confess'd myself the Saviour there;
And to the Jews I then did come,
They were the Brides to all ’tis known:
Because the Jews, 1 well did know,
They judg'd a G on and Saviour top,
Must both in power then appear.
And bring the kingdom to themjnere—
And so they all were wed to M E;—
That grandeur great 1 knew to be;—
That Lords and Ladies I'd make all.
And so My kingdom then should fall:
But their adulterous hearts, I knew,
That Love to ME they did not shew—
And then the promise 1 did make,
That if the Jews did ME forsake;
The Corner-stone I'd take away—
And there my Land they all shall seer
Should in My daughter then appear:—
No other way you ennnot clear,
Ever to make My Bible true;
And biing the whole before your view—
Now mark the promise that he made,
What to his servant then he said;
That if a Harlot she was come,
HU wife to be in bed with one;
Digitized by Goog
Then sure hit lands he'd freely give
Unto the servant; he should live
His eldest heir for to possess:—
But if he told him {hen a lie,
Upon a gallows he should die.
T he servant held him to his word;
H e knew the truth of what he said—
And then the horn began to blow,
When he return'd the truth to know,
And then the servant did alarm :—
T he Fable you do not discern.—
’Twas but blind shepherds, she did say9
W hen that the horn was blow’d that way:
And therefore he had nought to fear,
Until her Lord he did appear;
And, when he found himself betray’d—
Mark the two swords that there were laid
And mark the way they both did fall;
This parable stands deep for all.
Because the m^n he first did slay,
That did his honor then betray;
And so the bride he did cut off;
Have wisdom; now I’ve said enough.
T he Lord in anger then did lay;
, But mix’d with Love, when he did slay
T he wife that was so near his soul
T he parable goes deep for all. . . •
For be rejoic’d that he must die, fi* ****
Life was a burden, he did cry
And so he sung that he mu3t die,—
T o see his wife so murder’d there,
Adultery he could not bear:
Because his passions they were strong.
Ho made his will before to man,
That all his lands that he should have,
And so his promise he did crave— 1
Because the youth said he would die,
If then he told him any lie*—
So here’s the shadow of the man,—
But now the Likeness all discern:
And then I'll turn another way,
When I’ve explained the first to thet.
Digitized by Google
/
95
For I'll go back to Adam's fall,
For there the Type stands deep for all;
And there the Adultery first was plac’d,
When satan's arts the woman casf
And then the blame was cast on M E,
And so the rage began that w ay;
For though he struck Me to the ground,
The second sword must sure be found:
For I shall surely bruize his bead;
Mark ye the promise, how ’twas made
Unto the youth that did appear,
Because the Parable lies there ;
Unto the promise that was made,
H e’d live or die, you know he said,—
And to the promise bid him stand;
In Death or Life he did demand,
That to my word I there should stand*
If he told truth, the truth should be
T o be the h e i r b l i n d mortals see :
If be told lies, then on his head,
He said the gallows should be laid,
T o build anew for him to d ie:
Now here the hidden mystery lies*
The woman then was murder’d there,
By satan’s arts that did appear;
Because that 1 pronounc’d her dead;
But*know the curse on satan laid—
' W hen he had stung me to the soul,
Betray’d the woman, now see all—
My honor then engag’d ’t must be,
W hen I’d pronounc’d the curse on he.
T o slay the woman at that time;
But here’s a mystery lies behind*
He bid her put her clothing on*
And said to murder *t was a shame,
A naked woman to appear—
And know the man stood guilty there ;
T ho’ he the truth in all had told,
Another mystery I’ll unfold*
The youth that did the tidings bring,
Repent’d when he bad seen the tiling;
His dying Lord for to appear,
Digitized by C j O O ^ I c
, > V V
*
-
\
His Lady murdered—-Servant there; .
All three together thus did fall;
H e felt her blow l tell you all,
That she did strike him with her handf
Too late he wish'd he'd never swam
Over the Brook, that way to go,
Or, ever let his Master know,
That by the man he was betray’d,
He then repent’d of what he said :
But his repentance caihe too late,
When he saw all had met their fete*
And how his promise could he claim,
When by his words his Lord was slain,
N o, there his promise it might stand,
Could he with confidence demand,
T he piomisc that was made him first,
When that before him Three were plac'd
As murder'd by his busy hand ;
As he himself did then condemn—
And wish'd he’d left the evil lie,
Sooner than caus'd his Lord to die ;
T ho’ first in love he did appear, #
Thinking the Servant for to clear;
That from his House he then did go,
No other way lie meant the blow ;
Then for to free the servant man,
In love to him, he then did stand ^
But when he saw his great mistake,
In agonies his heart did break ;
And thought no lands where due to he,
That caus'd the murder of these three” ’
Here we ended on Monday Night June the 25th
1804.------The' six days Joanna having been con­
fined to her Bed, without being permitted to put
on heir Cioaths before she hears the Voice of the
Lord call her aloud, as she has often heard it
before.
99
Digitized by L i o o g i e
97
Tuesday Mcruifig^ June v.§tk, 1804. "
After we had dropped our Peas on Monday
Might,' Joanna and Townley were gone to bed*
as she now sleeps with Joanna, and only .returns
to her lodgings at times in the day. Soon after
ten o’clo.' k Joanna went out of bed* and walked
up and down the room: about eleven Underwood
came up, and saw Joanna walking up and down
the room; .at last she broke out with great power
o f the Spirit, and great fury— Underwood not
knowing at first from what spirit it was, that she
seemed in that fury; asked, if she should read to
her to sooth her; but Joanna answered NO, she
wanted nothing to sooth her, for she felt nothing
but Joy. Site walked to and fro shaking the very
house, exclaiming against the devil, saying, hither­
to sata>* hath walked up and down the Earth; but
tiow h' had ca3t himself, and he should walk up
bud d
< wn no more— for the Lord would now walk
up and down the Earth in his stead— he accused
M y Handmaid of disobeying the commands of the
L oad; but here were the Two Witnesses to prove
him a liar, but you cannot understand the sense
• f this, if I do not tell you the particulars After
the shadow of the First Seven Days, that was said
to bc the shadow oflier TnalT Ioanna was order­
ed to undress and go foTiedT^and never to arise
to put on her Ctooths more, before she heard the
eoice of the Loro call her aloud, in the same man*
ner she had often heard it before— and in the
tome manner she heard a voice call aloud, Tom*
tins very morning that the Letter came trotn the
Rev. Thomas P. Foley; but bis name was called
blond in the morning, and three or four hours after-
itords came (his distressing letter, that was answer-
' JN
Digitized by Google
s
ed and sent by an Express by a Horn, that Mow­
ed aloud. Joanna asked Underwood, if she did
not Hear the Voice, as she was then in the Room;
Underwood answered no. Joanna was surprised,
and said, it waked her; in the same manner she
was answered, she must hear her own name cal­
led before she did arise from her bed as before;
but she was ordered to come out of her bed, and
walk up and down the Room without any Cloth­
ing, but her Linen that she sleeps in ,.which she
often did; and walked up and down hasty like
one in a Fever with her Fan in her hand, some­
times with the Fan open, and sometimes closed,
throwing it to and fro, saying, 1 am come to do
my Father’s W ill, treading down the Wine-press
of His wrath; but Joanna says, when she was
Confined to her bed the first days, she was very
powerfully visited by the devil many time' a day;
He asked her once if this was the Lore of* Christ
to her, to keep her there in her bed :— Joanna
answered, yes, “ His Yoke was easy and His Bur­
then was light.”— He had not laid upon her such
heavy Burthen, as HE HIMSELF bore for her;
and she knew the Lord had wise ends for keeping
her in bed, which she enjoyed, as she felt no pain,
but could lay down upon her bed, when she was
minded to with pleasure. Then the devil would
aggravate her another way, and Jell her she was
an idle, lazy Bitch, and she ought to get up— she
answered, she never would, till the Loro called
her aloud: but those aggravating, provoking
speeches of the devil made her eager and desirous
in her heart, that the Lord would call her aloud,
to stop the contentious Tongue of the devil.
Sunday morning. ■ ■ Seeing four days had past
and she had heard no voice to call her».«nly Mr.
. 98
Digitized by Google
/ 99
Foley's name repeated, she went out of bed and
'washed herself, and took off her night cap, and
asked Underwood for clean Linen, as she thought
to herself,' perhaps the Lord would call her
when she was naked, as He caHed Adam : but
finding she was deceived, she laughed at her own
folly, and told us her simple thoughts, which di­
verted us alL After that the devil plagued her
again, and said, she was a fool to tell them how
she was disappointed, for as are did not hear the
Voice call Tom, th2y could not hear the Voice
call Joanna; so she might have deceived them,
and told them that the Lord had called her. Jo­
anna answered, thou devil, I cannpt deceive the
Lord, and what good is it to deceive them ; they
cannot protect me in the hour of danger, and it
is by His Power I stand or fall:— then the devil
plagued me another way, and said it was he that
used to call me, and now I had forbid him from
me, he would never call me m o re s o if I laid in
bed till my name was called, I might lay a bed
for ever. I said so I would and die in my bed, if
the Lord did never call me aloud to get out of it,
for if he had power to do all these wondrous things
He surely had power to call me aloud. In this
manner 1 have .been in and out plagued with the
devil, trying every,way to make me get up with­
out being called, which I would not do for ten
thousand Worlds, for I would sooner die in my
bed. Then the devil brought to my remembrance
a former thing that I had heard, and said the
Lord was dealing with me, as a Father did with
his Daughter, who was deeply in love with a
Gentleman the Father did not like, aud he beat
her so severely—
A «« That the Blow* they fell sore ;-*
So She took to her bed.
And She never ro*e Inure. *
>
Digitized by Google
And so ft would be with me, if I watted till the
lo rd called me. I said, I did not care for that,
for I would sooner die in my bed, than dis» bey
the Lord. When the devil found no arguments
, could make me to arise, the sixth day he came an­
other wav, and upbraided me that 1 bad arose,
and walked up and down the r o o m I said, {
was ordered to go up and down the room some­
times, and then go into my bed again; but the.
devil kept on plaguing me in that manner, that'I
had arose,-till I told Townlcy and Underwood to
be witnesses against him, and told them what he
had said, ind asked them if they could prove that
was rising from the bed, to go out without
any Clothing about the Room. They said no— ?
that was not rising without your Clothing; you
cannot go out in the Street so, nor out of your
Room, the Lord had ordered you to walk; see­
ing the Agonies I was in, by the provoking Lies
of the devil. They both fell down upon theif
kpees by my bed side, and Townley said we will
say the Lord’s Prayer together, Which we three
joined in ; then we prayed! to the Lord fo chain
down Satan, for having entered into man to be-*
tray HIS only SON, our BLESSED SA V IO U R
and RED EEM ER, and having caused HIM to
die the Ignominious Death upon the Cross, and
H{S dear precious and innocent Blood, to be shed
for the Sins of mankind ; ‘‘but FA TH ER forgive
v them, for they know not what they do,” and
hasten to cut off all the powers of darkness.— —?
When this prayer was ended, I felt a swimming
round my head, and the powers of darkness broke
pff from me, 1 then was ordered to pen the Pa-s
Table of the Lord Burnett as I had learnt it when
g Child, but copId not s?e bP-WHcogld be explained
100
Digitized by G o o g l e
' 101
any way, to bring it to tbe Likeness of Christ. I
had tbe Parable wrote as I karnt when a Child,
but did not understand the explanation, till it came
' to the promise made to the Bov, when the Eye*
of my Understanding began to he opened; Init
as it was come tq night, and Townley arid Under*
wood, had staid up till two o’clock the night be­
fore, to soad off the EXPRESS to London: wo
shut up writing at Candle-light, after I'ownley
came to bed With me, I felt the Spirit woiking
strong in me, of tbe depth of Lord Burnet’s word*
yrhen he aid ,
4
4 If this beta He Lord Burnet be said
That tbou bast brought unto m c-r
A new pair of Gallows there shall be built,
And hanged thou sh&lt be.”
1 knew they were lies which the devil brought a-
gainst me, and therefore felt the force of the
words; that now the second time the N ew G h t
j.ows must be built for the devil, for he must be
as honest as tbe Boy was, or the L oro will make
him : as Lord Burnet would have bang’d his Boy,
if lie had come with lies to disgrace bn Wife, had
she been innocent, but she was not. But I knew
I was innocent, for I have never suffered a man
to come into my presence, since I was forbid;
neither would I suffer myself to look into the
Street, fearing I should see a man, and it was not
all the arts the devil could use, would make me
disobey my Loan. And now, I knew HE will be
like Lord Burnet, do to the guilty tying wretch,
that hath defiled the whole World by sin, as Lord
Burnet did to his Wife and Servant, and Lord
Burnet’s death is past already, in our SAV IO U R ’S
being Crucified upon the Cross, after HE had cut
gff all the Brides, that dpfiled His Bed, and 4 ?r
Digitized by LjOOQle
i o a
filed His Honor, by following after other Lovei*^
that were defiled by the arts of the devil; but
then the Blow came to man instead of the devil,
as it came to Judas when he had betrayed our
SA V IO U R to defile the J^ws.— The first Blow
that he struck, struck him down to 'the power of
men:— but the second blow that our SA V IO U R
struck, when HE struck to Judas's heart and con­
science,' HE then struck him dead, as he went
and bought a Halter to hang hitnself. He then
called forward the Jews; or, they were called
forward, as an Adulterous Race against Him ; and
then the' natural Branches were cut off; and then
H E said, like Lord Burnet, that now HE must
die for the whole, and gave .up HIS Life upon
the Cross, seeing His Honour betrayed, His Bed
/ defiled, and so He cast the Adulterers into the
Bed together.— Then now go back to the other
Promise made by Lord Burnet,—
u If this be a true Tale my little footpage,
That thou hast brought unto me ;
My eldest Daughter the Har of my Land,
Thy wedded Lady She shall be —
Then mark, ye hold me to my Word,
And no* discern your dying Lord,
That as in Adam you died here;
7 he eldest Daughter must appear,
If you’ll possess My every-Laud,
Then now the Marriage al! command;
Tho 'tis the youngest doth appear,
The eldest Daughter is not here, - -
And how that way could it ere come)
Bring back the Parable to man. -
When bv his ways the whole was slain,
What elder Daughter could he gain,
To join with him in heart and hand i
Wrhen she condemn’d it in the Man,
That by his Justiceall was cast!
Tho* unto her all wrong did burst*—
Digitized by Google
103
She thought that he should sin conceal,
Sooner than'go for to reveal,
The Crime her Mother then had done ;
. She cast the blame upon the man­
lier Mother's Crime she did not see;
Her Father’s Honor to betray ;
7b bring her Footman to his Bed, ,
She thought that Evil might be hid
And in her heart condemn’d the man,
That told her Father what she’d done
And he himself as much did blame,
When all the deaths he saw that came
From every Truth that he had told—
The mysteries here I shall unfold.—
When that My TtiUh did come to man.
Discover’d first by satan's hand;
I said, if so it did appear,
That he the tru h had spoken there;
My eldest Daughter then would be,
1 well know then the Brides of he,
Till every heir I had cut oil*,
And all My Lands were gone to nought,
And now to nought they all are come—
I said the Woman did condemn
The love to man that did appear,
And all the blame she cast it there
Upon the devil, that betray’d ; \
For so the Likeness now I’ve laid—
The Shadow’s in the simple man,
That smote his breast— in haste did run— —
And so in haste be did appear,
The Types for men and devils here;
Because he *aid, if that he did lie,
The Gallows should come round that way—
Unto His words the man did hold,
Then now let satan’s heart grow cold;
For when the Truth I came to know—
Both lies and truth from him did flow;—*
»
*Fwas true that they had disobey’d.
But ’twas by him they were betray’d:—
Then now the second words shall come,
Timyounger Daughter shall be known.
Shall gain the Every !and for Me t
As then the elder did for he; , j
Because the Last shall now be First; i
i
Digitized by C j O O ^ I c
104
For so My Bible all is plac’d.
And it the la^t the lint appears.
The elder Daughter sure is here,
That now shall gain My every Land,
And you with her ip Marriage stand;
Then all My Lands you now shall have.
For true are the words the Man did give,
To $a) the wonlan him betray’d,
And true the woman then she said,
Satafi had tempt’d her thus to do,
And every word I knew was true.
Therefore the Curse pronounc’d f
it great;—
For well 1 knew where laid deceit;
But then My Honor could not dear,
As Disobeditxice 1found there.
The man aud woman soon did own,
And so in death they both did come
Dead to all knowledge then of Me—
The other Promise none do see,
That lie’th behind prepared for man;
If his bed was • efii’d by One,
A servant then that did appear,
Another strvant was the Heir;
Because the Truth that he had told;
And now* the mystery I’ll unfold— '
The Truth by him wa* told,at first,
What fiour the woman’s hand did burst;
And when the woman did appear,
And said the serpent tempt’d her there ;
Ami so the words l knew were true,
And cas>t on satan then his doe;
But as the w'hole were naked then,
I could not fight with simple men,
That had no Clothing then to clear,
I knew no knowledge then was there.
Therefore their Clothing l put on,
And at that time / cover’d them,
With nought but Goat Skins 1 put on,
Till ages faster did roll on—
7 hen every Clothing I put on,
To shew M y Bjble aud M y W o r o ,
And shew them all My glittering Sword
Flow all Mv Bible it doth stand,
And here’s the Clothing you command ;
If like that youth you now will be,
And put your Clothing on for M e •
Digitized by Google
io5
Against the devil now complain,
You all may swim through Jordan’s stream:
But if in bed* defil'd you lie,
Jn satan's arms I now do say,
Just like they two you all shall fall, I
And here’s a waning to you all —
For now my promise it shall stand—
My daughter now shall gain'lhe Land,
And all that are in Bonds with she,
My every Land shall gain that way ^
For now the Iruth is fairly try’d,
1’ve‘rhose her for to be the Bride,
And / MYSfitiF to be the H e ir ;
My FATHER s every land to share-—
For now I'll place M Y S E L F to man,
That said he'd die the Truth to claim
If it was lies upon his head,
He said on him it should be laid—
And so he said the Truth to clear
He'd die, or be the perfect Heir;
And so in grief he first did die—
The second promise still must lie,
For he to be the perfect heir;
And now the Likeness I’ve brought here#
For now the Truth I say shall burst,
I plac’d the Likeness of the First
In true Obediertce for to stand,
The men. and women l command—*
What I Jorbid they must not do ;
What / command they must pursue—
And by the tVomeu this is done,
And satan like the Footpage came:
Or, in My form he did appear,
And strong belied the Woman here—
Which I did say, it it was true,
I’d give him Gentiles and the Jews—•
I’d give him up My every Land,
If he the truth could now command.
But when.; he Truth I came to know,
I found the Tar so to go,
ir,
A way that l did thee forbid ;
And now Til bring it on his head;
Because the lies he told at
o
/
Digitized by Google
/
Upon his head I plac'd the Curse;
But to go through I could not .dear;
Because that man was guilty bore.
But now from guilt 1 know thou’rt free,
Because ’twas I that order'd thee
Out of thy*bed that way to come;
And so to travel up and down,
The skeleton for to appear.
The naked woman you see here:
As she appear’*
} in noughtlmt bone,
And thou no clothing hadst got on—
For, at that time, I sure was there,
When satao did so strong appear;
For to condemn with every lie, >
1 tell thee I was standing by—
And I the Witnesses did hear;
So the blind shepherds may appear,
That to the Fold do drive my sheep,
That way he lulls them all asleep; ,
And in bis arms he hplds them fast,
Until with rage that I shall'burst,
And place him in Lord Burnet’s room,
For there he’s bringing on their doom—
Upon the Nation 1 see first,
The men and women so are plac’d,
By satan’s-fury first to d i e ;
He holds them, and he then does cry,
That they are guilty of the deed:
He tells them ’tis no use to flee,
Because of dangers there are none-—
'Tis the blind shepherds blotf the horn,
That at the midnight men did hear,
And at the mid-day did appear—
For I have gone through day and night,
T o blpw -the horn the wretch to fright:
Or else, ,to make mankind to fear,
That they may part and sin no more*
But judge that dangerVin the sound, .
That in their beds they mayn’t be found:
For if that satnu find them so,
I know his fury it must go,
And say that tbey are justly cast;
10$
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
/ \ 0 J
/
Because He found them in their lust,
In every thing that I forbid;
Then in this truth he may proceed,
T o strike them with the fatal blow;
Though his own death 1 well do know'
Shall follow after like$he man ;
f^nd that’s the way his death shall come.
Because his bride he's murdering here,
That he by sin have wadded clear;
But yet no bridegroom can he stand,
*Tis but a shadow of the man—
And that's the way they will be cast,
. That like the woman now do burst;
When they M y alarm ing H orn do hear,,
T o say blind Bhepherds do appear,
Driving my sheep unto the Told,
That way their hearts will all grow cold.
Then to the others 1 shall come, y
That spoke the truth you know by man:
And if the truth was found in he,*—*
You know the lands were said to be
Then with My Heiress all his own;
And perfect so it now shall come: ,
Because that I'll stand to the word, t
And he shall tremble at a God,
That came in power the truth to see«
Therefore the night 1 work'd in thee, - ‘ ‘
T o leave thy bed, and travel on,
The words before thee must be shewn,'1
After part of the explanation given to me, con­
cerning the parable of Lord Burnet, all the senate
of what has been written to-day, broke in upon
me, after they had given over writing. 1 then
was answered, take up thy. bed and walk,” As
I was walking up and down, pondering in my
heart the events of the day, and what was said of
the promise^ made to the Boy, if he had told the
truth, the Spirit of the Lord entered into me with
t
Digitized by Google
power, which must be reserved till another day,,
as *tis time to prepare tor-the post.
W e all join ip kindest Christian love to yourself,
Mrs. Foley, and the dear little Richard. This
second Horn mentioned, is an express that was
sent off to Mr. Sharp, on Monday roosting at
two o’clpck; I think much more wondeiful than
any you have seen yet “ So the Horns went through,
day and n ig h tfor they would arrive at Mr.Sharp’s
about nine or ten o’clock, 'these Herns are said to
be the Homs of the Lord, blowing »o awaken ttio
nation; as Lord Burnet’s servant blowed his Horn,
to awaken the Lady and the Footman: hut if the
nation he like the Lady and the Footman, judge
it is nothing but the blind shepherds of the .Lord,-
driving {heir sheep to the Fold, they will find
the Lady’s sudden destruction, though satan’s doom
must 1'ojluw after; if they give tht mselves into /
his power, which they are now hastilv.doing. For
the power pf G od that was in me last night, and
<he wofds that were then spoken against the
powers pf dafkness,a;id against the second trumpet
that is now filowipg;— ibr^ as C hrist died at the
First Horn, when the' Horn of the Gospel was first
pronounced,-rirso the Second Horn is the Horn of
Redemption, that must bring the' promise that was
made to man,: and satan must, with his followers,
now fall together; for that Parable goeth deep to
the nation, and will bring in a sudden destruction.
Therefore, this must go in print. If they say T
am writing fiom songs, tell them they are fatal
ffttg that they are-mgitg; and su<;b sung* as lull
|hegi all asigep,
(Signed)
JAN £ T Q W N L E V ,
108
Digitized by G o o g l e
1 0 0
From the same to the same.
Tuesday, July. 3,1804.
Sit*
1
I shall omit sending you the particulars
o f John Symons, to tell you the wonders of last
night, on Monday evening, July 2, After Joanna
had been to supper, and Underwood thought her
composed, and going to sltep; and she said sue
believed she should. Townley then came up,
and said her two false teeth had both fallen out,
and she feared it would alter her voice: Joanna
said, she "did not think it did alter her voice, and
rejoiced they were fallen out, and sajd they must
not be put in any more. Townley said they should
not, and then went to bed; but Joanna dt sired it
might be remembered, that they fell out the day
.that John Symons would receive his letter al»out
himself and Pomeroy. Joanna says, she felt her­
self dull and heavy to go to sleep; but the Spirit
pf the Lord kept lur waking. She was ordered
to take tip her bed and walk: for, as s' e walked
every night, » should the arrows of death fly fast
by night, and the Pestilence should go by day; for
new thousands should fall on the right hand, and
ten thousands «n the left: lor the destroying Angel
should go forth, and go up and down the earth, as
she went up and down tire room. Here she t>
. yg
the fory of the Lord broke in so strong upon her,
that took away hpr senses. She cannot recollect
^ny thing further, only if Pomeroy would turn the
King's evidence, to tell who so powerfully per­
suaded him, tq 4e»y his a,,d Master, the
Lord would now, at the last, forgive him and cast
.{Jiopthfrsj but, if he would not, they should all
Digitized by
110
die together, and fatal would be their end. T h e
L ord had placed Pomeroyas Joanna’s judge, per­
fectly as Pilate was placed our S a v i o u r ’s judge.
But he should remember the words the Lord said
. unto Pilate, he that delivered Me unto thee hath
Ihe greatest sin; and he that tempted Pomeroy
to draw back hath the greatest sin. But Joanna
says, her senses entirely left her? this she reroem*
bers, but the other she does not remember: and
says, we have told her strange things this mornings
that we ourselves, Town ley and Underwood^ are
commanded to pen. She walked about the room
with as much, fury of the L ord as at any former
time; and stamped with such fury that the whole
house shook, and alarmed the people in the houses
The Master of the house went into the street, and
heard the noise the same in the street as>in the
house. Joanna spoke so powerfully to satan, telling
him his doom, and she appeared to -fix lief eye;
and to extend her arm towards one spot, that f,
Townley, who was then alone in the robot with
her, thought Joanna saw satan; but Townley IfeU
no fear. Soon after Underwood returned into the
room, Joanna saidj if we wished for rest we must
take up our beds and go to our tents: but we told
her we preferred staying with her. She then- went
on waiking about the room, talking loud mid
powerfully W H A T the Lord was going to da upon
the earth, and stamping her foot violently. Her
Airy about satan I have told you: but what she
Said about men, and to whom she pointed', I am
ordered to keep secret, and only to write it as a
memorandum for myself; as only the Friends are
to see it, that they may knpw thb i *?d of all things,
She walked in this fury a full half hour, and then ,
gpft into bed, and went on talking, but iq a different
Digitized by L s O O Q l e
/ m
Voider It then •appeared to •tne; Townley, as ft
our Saviour was speaking in her, and reminded
us what our blessed Saviour suffered for our sakes:
the words exactly I cannot recollect, but she fold
us she felt a heavenly joy within her. She then '
was more composed, and went to sleep; and we
did the same. - And now I shall come to Joanna’* ,
information. She says that she does not remem­
ber a ward, but Townley hath just' called to her5
remembrance,'that-Joanna particularly told us,
that man had been .twice dead, and twice phuked up
by the•roots. Blit after Joanna went to sleep, she'
dreamt that a.circle was placed.over her head*
with a circle like the sun in the middle, in a round
circle, bright and fiery. Round the circle -of the
sun were black clouds; which fell over her, and
fastened her to her bed. She then felt herself
dying, and fainted away with the agonies she bore;-
and thought she was immediately taken out of her
hed, and carried, in a most wonderful manner, to'
the bottom of;the bed : she ft It the curtains burst
before her, and she was carried round the room. '
She wfshid to awake Underwood and Townley,
and tell them to sec the beginning o f miracles,
* and to see the two white hands that clasped
round her; but she"does not remember that they'
awoke to see either. She was then! carried atvay
out of the room into the open world, and p :-vug
by some people; she thought she had got on a'
branched linen gown, with green flowers on the
top; a gown she had got lately, but never wore
it but one'day. Some of the people, as .'be
passed by, she thought said, that she had got ort
the serpent's dre<s; but she thought to herself .
sbe had no sevj&nt’s dress on, and refleeted with
herself whai the-*gown was— the ruuning branches
i
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
that bring she green leaves of victory: so that
gown fnust be shewn to man, to see what judg­
ment they will draw from the gown, that fools
judge thp serpent’s dress: but there they will sec
the running branches purple without,— the black
Cross in the middle,— and the four square green
fl were without, that bting the green leaves to
man— the summer that is nigh at hand— there­
fore, let men take care that they do not say,
“ The harvest is over, the dav and the summer
is ended, but we are not saved.;” after this she was
brought again into her bed, after being carried to
different places. She then •awoke, and heard
some one knock at her door, in the same manner
that Underwood used to knock to rail her to
breakfast/ She called out, Who is there? Town-
ley, being awake, said, she heard no one knock or
call: this was after the day was broke. She then
Jay still to compose herself to sleep; but felt a
hand come round her, and a head come over her,
that she thought kept breathing in upon her, with
more powerful breath than ever was the force of
air froth a smith’s bellows, that blowed the fire
for the anvpl. She thought to herself she should
be afraid, if she did not know herself to be in
the hands- pf G od; but her perfect love had cast
out fear, that she neither feared men nor devils.
The devils before her seemed like gnats or flies,
that you can kill with the flip of your Anger;
and men appeared, before her, no otheh than the
gra<s that is to be mowed down: for now she
looks upon all men as grass, and the beauty
thereof to fade and decay, that must be ait down
to nourish the Sheep and Oxen, that the Lord
will preserve: and these Builocks J that, will give
^ { AH of the Cow-kiml, ia Devonshire, ere called Bellocks*
1 1 2
4
Digitized by Google
7/XvfV n ~ -
k i * # , ij& cc^ur*/- /d b //u s '^ 4*s f s j ^ X / 1
/ fy / & ^ s fo * rrT 7 * Y ^ 11;^
lyfilk, to bring forth the Cream of- his words,
so the after-grass is preserved for them, when the
mowing grass is cut down. After this she tried to
sleep to compose bersel f, and felt as above. At last sh^
fell asleep with the strong breathings that w ere -
over her head which is impossib'e for.-her to
describe, and which took her senses quite away— ,
and whether awake or asleep she does not know
but she remembers that she was quite awake when!
she frit the turnd of the Lord upon her; but in!
that heavenly and beautiful manner, that she felt,
joy unspeakable and full of glory. She felt herself-
laying as it were it) heaven, in the hands of the
L ord, and was afraid to move, fearing she should
remove his heavenly hand, which she felt as per­
fect as ever voman felt the hand of her husband:
In this happy manner I fell asleep, and in my sleep
I. was surprised with seeing a m >
st beautiful and
heavenly figure, that arose from the bed between
Townlry and me. He arose, and turned himself
backward towards the feet of the bed, and his
hpad almost reached the tester of the bed, but
his face was towards me, which appeared with
teauty and majesty, but pale as death. His hair'
was a flaxen color, all in disorder around his face. .
His.face was covered with strong perspiration: no
’ man in a salivation could appear worse. His
locks were wet like the dew of the night, as
though they had been taken out of a river. . The
collar of his shirt-appeared unbuttoned, and the
skin of his bosom appeared white as the driven
snow. Such was the beauty of the heavenly .
figure, thdt appeared before me in a disordered .
sta'e: but the robe He had on was like a supplied -
dowji to his knees. He put out one of h‘S legs .
to me, that .was perfectly like mine, d o largert 5
P ...........................
Digitized by L . o o Q l e
But with purple spots at the top, as mine are with
Beating myself, which Townley, Underwood, and
Taylor are witnesses of. Methought in my dream
HE got himself in that perspiration, being pressed ;
to sleep between Townley and me. 1 said to
Him, are you, my dear dying Saviour, that is ■
come to destroy all the works of the devil? H E
answered me, Yes. I thought J called Underwood:
ati.d waked Townley to look at Him, which they
did with wonder and amaze. I then thought £
Would go out of my bed, and fall down on m y ;
knees before Him, to return Him thanks for His
lq^rcy.and.goodness; hut, as soon as these thoughts
entered my head, He disappeared, and a woman
appeared in His stead, which gave me pain to see.,
he was,gone; but the woman told me many w on -,
dprful things, that were coming upon the earth,
and what, was coming upon the devil: but, as sh e.
said she knew me at such a time, before she waa,
a spirit, I marvelled how she should know a n y r
th'ing of me, and grieved at the loss of my dear!
R edeemer, for I saw no beauty in the wom an:,
but my sorrow was, that I had lost sight of C hrist;
and though the woman would reason strong with
me, but her reasons I did not like. In this con­
fusion I awoke, and heard the bell tolling for the
dead, and the dtum9 beating at the same tim e;
which 1 remarked to Townley. Soon after, I
heard the Master of the house, as though he was
hammering with both hands. I asked what he
was doing, to make such a noise; but Underwood
told me he was making a cliicken-coop, to keep .
in the chickens— Now let this be sent as it is to ,
Foley, Bruce, Sharp, and Taylor; for no explanay
tion shall be given this day: only let them try
their own judgments, and they shall have the
Digitized by L j O O Q i e
115
explanation another time.— — W e can hut Sj
j*v e the Posf; and we unite in kind Christian S i- fy
. love to Mrs. Foley, dear litcle Richard, and your*
•em ‘
(Signed) . . ' * - *
* ' JANE T O W N LE Y. .
& P. 5 . In the morning, before we began writings
Joanna called for the Bible, and opened it' at th'e
Second chapter of Haggai; which she desires you
%dU Jread and weigh deep. ‘
y
* ' * From the same to the same.
Friday Mornings July 2o, 1804*
' FeverendSrr%
Joanna was ordered to have a jour- f
ioal from Sunday last copied off regular, with the' •
'singular things concerning herself from the Sunday
to the Friday following; and the reasons are td
\>e assigned to her, why she was ordered to briti£
it in this manner.
T he answer of this Spirit.—
“ And now, Joanna, I shall assign 1he rea'cm,'
w hy I ordered thee to put on T H Y I'H RE^
■ RINGS, and bring forward the shadow of thy
Journal,. But now call back to the suo-tanee; in
what manner this hath been carried on— first, thy
despair; next, the power of M y Spirit, coming*
drith fury in thee— then mark what follows after,
how often my Spirit have been like fury,in thee,
declaring M y threatnings against men and devilsj
Digitized by Google
— then mark thy Promise made to ME, and My
Promise.to thee:— then let every one weigh deep,
frow it went On from the power.of My Spirit, the
fury of M y Spirit; what I poured out nay after
day, night after night, that'should come on men
and devils, that now M OCK My reign. It U not
to hear My voice; it. is not to discern the words
that are spoken in a day— if you do not discern
M y Footsteps, trace them track after track, word
after word, day alter day, how I began, and how
I AM going on. Firs;, to shew M y threatpiogs
and M y Power in thee, and by thee— then come
' t»n thy disputes with sa'ai.— then, My Fury break­
ing again in thee — th<jfn come on thy disputes
with man. But here lelf them see J have brought
thee low, .to shew, mankii d.wha.t My Fury will
bring upon TH IS U N BELIEV IN G N A TIO N ,
apd upon all N A T IO N S; for I shall make them j
as sick with smiting tl tm. afi thou vast T I l^ T
JDAY; but their sickness will .upt end like thine, I
tp lpave them ill a day, apd seemed to-be restored
the following cay, But I tell thee their’s wifl
CO N TIN U E, till they will say with Cain," “ My i
troubles ?re greater than I tau btju,'" I‘ cannot
shup the judgments of a God, whom I haie sq
long mocked a.nd:despised, bet them look on tbtc
ana see T H E SH ADOW — then let them trem­
ble for T H E SUBSTAN CE, For, know,’ as
Isaac was bound as a Type of Me, and the arrowy
of death wept through Abraham and Isaac, as
jpdging he must be slain : but then man was pre­
served, and alter that I was slain. So now the
scenes are changed another way; thou only bearest
in My stead the shadow of Isaac; and, though
they are crucifying thee daily for Mv sake in the
Spirit, find thou fpelesL it in the jiody
Digitized by Google
I l f
know, I D IE D ONCE FOR A L L , and I shall
D IE NO W O RE FOR M AN. And every sor­
row thou rtOvlr feelest; every dagger rhcy have
placed in thy breast, shall be returned D O U B IE .
up->n this ungrateful Nation.— uprn this ungrate­
ful People,— that DESPISE the Warniog; D E ­
SPISE the Invitation, DESPISE the Redemption
of M E that .loved them, and gave My Life for
them: for now Joanna, I tell thee, M y appetite
is like thine, gone from every one, that are N O T
LO N G IN G for T H E CO M IN G of the Lord.
And now see where thy Appetite is gone— T hy
Appetite is gone from every Fruit— thy Appetite
is gone from Fish and Flesh— thy Appetite is gone
from the Bread of man, nay, from the Flour of
"Wheat, lor all appear to thee but Bran; thou can’st
digest nothing but the Bread of Heaven, which is
M Y W O R D coming down to thee. Now, Jo­
anna, I tell thee why I have,taken thy Appetite
from every thing, but the virtue of the Flesh boil­
ed in water, and Herbs eaten with it, and Wine
to drink— know, that out of My side came Blood
and Water— the next words stumbled Joanna, as
she did not know there were such words in the
Bible, “ AS M Y FLESH IS M E A T IN D EED ,
AND M Y BLOOD IS DRINK IN D E E D *
She remembered the other Evangelists, but had
forgot they were in St. John’s Gospel, 6th, chap,
and 55th verse.
Here follows the answer, -r
** Now, Joiinna, thee I’ ll answer,
J \ H, jE-HUVAH, is thy Mit«ter,
’All thy doubts I now shall dear;
)( wap l that work’d within thee.
Digitized by
i
Every perfect truth to see; * '
•In the T ruth! shall defend theej—
Search my word, that’s on recprd,
And see how all do stand;
And the n they'll find ’tis from theirLofd,
That did the wtiole command.
1 said, the bread must bc My Wofrd,
And now My Word is come—
) tfaid, itfy should be your food,
And now thy food is known.
T he virtue here that doth appear
From simple sheep to be;
But know the flesh thou cansf not bear,
N o, 'tis the flesh of Me
Is all thy Food, that do allude '
W ith herbs is mingled here;
It is the water from my side,
Is all that thou can’st bear,
And know the wine, for 1 AM the vine
That doth thee here support;— .
And now l'\\ tell thee of mankind,
T he way^ the Bread doth hurt—
I said, at first My Bread was plac'd,
7 o be the Bread for man ;
T he way my body they should taste,
But they did ne'er discern;
That at the last My Flock should burst,
From heav’n't must all come down:
And now I tell thee of thy taste,—
T hy appetite is found
• Sicken’d of all that men do call
T h z perfect Bread of M e;
N o, *tis tfx water and the blood9
That now must set you free.
7 he Bread of Life must end the strife
\Vhich comes from Heaven’s High
Throne—
7 he bread of man may soon be gone,—
For, now 1 shall disown
All those that come now in My Namej ,
And do My Flesh deny;
I'll put My Shepherds all to $h5m6,
118
Digitized by
/ Google
n g t
' They like the Sheep may d ie^
And be the Flesh for to bring forth
A Food thou can'st not bear;
No, ’tis from Me they ell shall see,
The blood and water here:
For now-I AM come, 1 tell you plain,
So perfectly like thee;—
My appetite from all is gone;—
-
My body 1 do see
Is broken hfere as men appear.
To make it earthly food—
And nothing but the bran is here,
They've all refus'd the good:
’Tis but a few I well do know,
That in the vine do stand:
Tbo'they as fruit their works do shew,
They are ripen'd to my h tnd.
But now their taste will not digest
I say, no more to Me;
Than thou can'st bear the earthly fruit,
That’s ripen'd on the trees: *
Just so is m m their fruit become,
As loathsome in My sight;
And they shall find, before 'tis long,
1 do them all dislike:
As thou dost here, all fruit appears
Quite loathsome unto thee:
And loathsome let tlie Shepherds heari
Their fruit is all to ME:
Because their fruit is to the root,
To slay their L ord once more;
Then Itt such shepherds all stand mute,
Their fiuit I cannot bear—
N o ! there the axe I now will fix.
To cut such Branches down :—
And then to satan I shall fix,
For he shall feel his wound. .
T he fruit is gone I see in mao,
And barren minds appear,
To think My Gospel e’er must stand,
T o
>have no change appear :—
TIrch of My death, and of My worth,
Digitized by Google
1 2 a
You nothing tnake of M e; .' " *
OnJy to change a worthless race*. *
Still worse and worse to be.
The Jews at first you know were cast* .
When I did first appear,
Their sacrifices then did cease; *
And all their prophct9 there
Did fall with MM; blind mortals see* .
What change did then take place;
But my Apostles then judg’d MM*
That 1 should all embrace
^ Another day, they then did say;
And tiow the day is come
That 1 shall change the scenes for all* *
My gospel now make known.
It t
was from heaven My word was given,
That there the bread must come;
And that mv flesh must be your food*
Tour ROCK to build upon.—
t
And now -I shall answer thee in plain words, as
the verse may appear stumbling to the readers;
for thy tears prevented M E from making it clean
And now I shall go back to Sacrifices and Burnt -
Offerings. It was the comment of the Lord that
was given to Moses for Burnt Offerings to be offer­
ed up to the Lord ; but these Burnt Offerings and
Sacrifices were but Types and Shadows, of M Y
being offered up for the Sins of Mankind,.as the.-
Paschal Lamb, to make atonement for man. In
thy writings I have told thee, what the meaning
ef the Two Rams was, and what the Burnt.Offer-
ing of Sin, IS; and why the Blood of Bulla and
nf Goats is mentioned in the Scriptures to make
no atonement for sin. Now these things that were
mentioned in the Scrip1ures I have already told •
tine, and now I tell thee aga:n, though they
were commanded,' they only stood as T yj^ s an^
Digitized by Google
Shadows O F T H E L A S T D A Y S, But did these
T yp es and Shadows last for ever ? Look at the
Jews, though they do not believe in M E, nor in
M Y Gospel, yet, these Types and Shadows'are
done away by theip. For as the Changes of the
Season bring Summer and-Winter, Seedtime and
H arvest; and one whole Crop is cut down which
is ripe for the Harvest— and N E W SEED is sown
again: so the time came for the cutting off the
Jews, and the N EW SEED was sown in the
Gentiles, ahd.then instead of Sacrifices and Burnt
Offerings, I C O M M A N D E D T H E B R E A D
A N D W IN E T O BE K E P T IN R E M E M ­
B R A N C E OF M E, till I came with T H E
W O R D AN D T H E BREAD that coroeth
down from H eaven: then know, it is M Y
FLE SH that must be your Food; and M Y
BLQ O D that was shed, ipust be your Drink.
And, now I shall explain the meaning of the words,
“ Y e have kept the Sacrament in remembrance of
M E "— not as M Y Flesh as must change your vile
Bodies, and make them like M y Glorious Body,
that death might be swallowed up in Victory.;
and M Y W ORD to be T H E B R E A D of Life
^ tb a t as in Adam all died; even so in CH R IST
•hall all be made alive. This is TH E BREAD
o f H eaven; and these are MY,, words left .on re­
cord, which, if a man BELIE VE , he .will find
M Y Flefh to he Flesh indeed— Spiritual Food;
Spiritual Meat.— And M y Blood shall pl^rise you
Iron} all Sins. He that denleth this, demeth M Y
Bible, and do not keep* M y Sacrament according
to M y W«?rds, the Bread of Life coming down
Q
i
/
r
Digitized by U o o Q l e
Men— the Bread of Men— an£ not according to
the Word of G O D .”
Sharp, Wherein he Informs' us the Clergy'are
preaching against Joanna and her Friends firotft
the Pulpit, without reading her Books. Here Jo­
anna was deeply answered; the Truth of the
Gospel was here made manifest— “ Blind Leaders
o f the Blind, till all fall into the Ditch together*
For they are jndgiitg of things they know nothing
about; and where are the Gentiles better than
the Jews? For, they are doing despite to- the
Spirit of God, saying, they want hot the kftow^
ledge o f the M O ST H IGH , and they are-cru*
Vifyidg the Lord daily IN T H E SPIR IT, as-ihe
Jews did IN T H E B O D Y, and are bringing the
day of Vengeance on themselves; and, was it not
for1 the NEW C O V E N A N T that the L oro said
H e would make with man, “ that the Imqui-
“ ties of the Fathers should no more be laid upon
“ the Children, but ft was the soul that sinned
“ should die” and this N E W C O V E N EN T, Hi
adieti, fee.
JANE T O W N L E T .
From the same to the same
Sunday Afternoon, July Zend, 1804.
Reverend Sir,
W e received a Letter from Mr.
Google
Digitized by
-
bath established -with us, that blessed he-the Lordr
tjbeir iniquities pannot destroy us, as the. fall of.
Adam fell upon all the race o f Mankind i but this!
N E W C O V E N A N T Cuts off that Fall- front
ail them that believe in Redemption, in and j
through the Merits of Christ; so blessed be the,
X*ord for His unbounded mercies, that from TH E,
A U T H O R IT Y of the Bible aswell as T he FRO-i
M lS E S made to me in my Writing, the Lord will
not now lay the Iniquities of one upon the other,
ipor punifh the Innocent with the Guilty, the Juff
w ith the uajuff;— but deeply are the Words faid
to me, the devil is now working STR O N G in the
Miniflers to bring the day of Vengeance upon
man, that he may escape.the Curse pronounced
upon him, and could he work thus in the hearts
o f all men, the world mud be burnt up like the
$croll, and all muff be burnt to aihes, and I muff
$ay juflly deserve it; for if God so loved the
W orld to .give His Only Son to have His Heel
Bruized, as promised in the Fall for the Tran*-
greflion of man ; and Chrift so loved the World
to give up his Life for man, and mail was ready
to clamour for His Blood; but now >the time is
come for salan’s curse, to fulfil the promile that
was made at the fame time in the beginning—
they now want to make G O D a liar in the pro­
mise HE made through HIS SO N ; tot, if we read
our Bibles through, the Bible is no more clear of
C H R IS T ’S Death and Sufferings for man, than
it is of HIS triumphing over Death, Hell, and
Sin, and treading down all the Wicked as Aihes
under H IS Feet, which was propliecied by -the
Prophet MaJachi, as Well as front me Golpel, iff.
Epiffie df John, $tb chap, i »lh ver. — " {hi; is tut
Digitized by L i O O Q l e
U 4
Record that GOD hathgiven to us, Eternal Life, and
this. Life ts in HIS SON ” 1 need not quote1to you
the many paflages of Scripture which allure us of
eternal life in this World through C hrist Jisus,
both of Redemption and Salvation,' and that H E
will deftroy all the works of the devil, as well as
t'he promise made in the Revelations, that he is to
be chained down FO R A TH O U SAN D Y E A R S.
I am soiry to say, I believe the Clergy know ho
more of their Bibles, than they do ofrny writings
— and was the Lord to come forward, as it is said
fo me, with a Sword in one hand, and his Bible
in the other, the Shepherds mull fall as the grass
before H IM , for they could not answer one word
o f a thousand :•— only allow, they have been
Blind Leaders of the Blind, and must confess
they have acted as it js said in the 82nd Psalm,
5th verse.*— ucTbat will not be learned\ nor wider-
4
4stand, but walk on still m darkness; alt the Foun-
“ dations of the Earth are out 6
j course. I have said%
u ye are Gods: and ye are dll the Children of the
“ MOST HIGHEST. But ye shall die like men; and
"Jail like one of the Princes”—
— 11 Now, Joanna, I shall answer,
Thou no further hast to g o ; ’
JA H , JEH O VAH ,.is thy Master, .
All the Shepherds I do know,-*-
Like the psalm that thou hast mention'd*
They are wandering here from M e:
But they'll hold no Contention,
Because the Light they w ill not see.
T he Psalm is true before their view,
And true the words are come;
They neither know, nor will they leans
W hat root to build upon—
\
Digitized by v^oogie
But boldly stray, a* thou dolt My#
M y Bible's all despis’d ;
But my Just Judgments they sbaUsee9
T o make the Fools more wise*
Did' I appear to perish here ?
And hang upon the Tree,
T he clamouring Tofcgues of nten to
hear?
And Satan swell’d this way?
T o say, ’twas Come now to his doom,
But men will not submit,
T o let the Cross for him to come,
N of n&ilhis hands, nor feet
His head to bruize, they do refuse9
Is satan’s haughty pride ?
I tell you fataler than the Jews,
The Gentiles now must hide
T he Rocks now call, to skreen you all,
That will the serpent free;
T he Aire is laid 1 fdll you all.
Then tremble every Tree,
That now stand out so full of doubt,
And wish him to remain—
N o Love for ME there cannot be,
Your sickly love is vain ;
Your rage do swell inflam’d by hell.
And there you all shall go,
Unless like Nineveh you’ll fall
In sorrow, grief, and woe*
But I’ll raise up an Israel’s hope,
For them that trust in M E ;
I never did on Calvary drop,
T o set the serpent free—
As you vain men do now contend,
M Y BIBLE throw aside ;
And satan in you to remain,
Then sure in vain l died.—
I f ’t must go on, then by your Plan, ‘
For men to mock M Y Nam e;
I ask you how the Jew* do stand,
Or, who do spread M Y Fame ?
Digitized by
ed by Google
W ill ypu app^r to, answer here,
^You spread theifyme ofM E ,
T om ak ea Bible^nons can clear,
Bui lies throughout to be ?
Bring Mfe the napn that can contend* ,r *
Fast bound in 8a,tyn*s.^hain,
S
pp^ove M Y ’tPiblppil btrue! , :!
o, all your arts are v^in.-~ .
It can’t be done* yp s$ps of men,
By, satan’s §u$? of yopfs-r
M Y Bible you fk^all deny.
And thin k yoursejv^ secure,
T o preach a word that caqie from God,
W hich youatfirm is wropg, •
For if M Y Bible all is false—
Then lies upon your tongue
Y ou da appear, I tell you here, (
Ip to the Church.to go .
And to M Y Altar do repair
W ith words you do not know—*
T he Bread of .Hqeven, must sure be
t givep,
I tell y o u tisM Y W ORD,
That must come down, the end be found,
Y ou ne’er discern’d your Lord !
From Types at first all things did burst,
And so that Type did come : , -
But knot? the end was M Y Intend,.
T o make th e T f L V j n be known ;
Shadows from man, the Bre^d did cpme.
Shadows of Bread below :,
But now ’iis dew ing to the en4t, .
Your bread will never do. ,
N o, ’tis M Y VVo$p must be the Bread,
T o save you in the end;
And ’tis My F lesh must now break
forth, . '
T he Spirit s my intend
Must here appear^your Flesh musth£ar,
T o eat and drink with M E: ,
) see (he pom^rings in thy heart*
.Digitized by G o o g l e
i
Which whY cart t m s 'Th ing b r f *
'
T o cat'M Y Flesh j cart man express^ ‘
T o ea fth e Flesh was M IN E ? 1 *
A mystery here thrfu cans't not ctemy 1
T hy pondering thoughts resign.—
It is not so, I well do know,
M y Flesh rt not their Food :
But further let thy thoughts to go—
And let them eat M Y Word ;
That's to believe,,i,dont deceive,
Then let M Y Fiesh'apyear^
And kpow that I shall eom e^ ain,
Their jfcrery guilt to clear-— - j
T hat man with ME alike mjiy-be,
Close icflnW |o the > V 1 N t *
Then in M Y Spirtf yotf wilM rink,
And know M Y Blood's the W ine,
That must appear in power here.
The Water-pots to turn :
AntTfh'rkVtef th>yi r aTTsee cleat; "
W ith1W ine I*vermade’them strong/ *
- Because M Y wordpthat** on recordp
Shall make their Foes submit;
*
* And when in powtr I appear
They'll tremble attbeir Feet,
So Plf end here; and say no more,
But let M Y Sheep demand
THE wa y the Bible men can dear,
If they D EN Y thy .band—
No man on earth can now come forth,
T o prove these Writings thine;—
And as to hell, where darkness dwells,
~ T K e y surely must n * £ n V ' /
Because from he*ft cannot be ^
A*.I have-eaidhefore^ >
A Judas men would make of he.
T o bring his gallows here
Himself to hang, but 'tis for men,
That he persuadeqp&em s o ;
Because their GOD they may condemn
And all to hell may. go.— _ .
Digitized by
But «U a that I, who dwell on High?
PROVE every word.I’ve spoke;
I ask them.whese they then will fly,
Fqr to prevent the Slroke.’’—
-
adieu, &c. be.
JAN E TO W N LE Y .
1 2 $
PRICE,—fW 0 SHILLINGS AND THREEPENCE.
Mrs. Southcott’s Writings are sold St £ . L FIELD'S,
No. a, High-Street, St. Giles's, tjear the Church, Londoa;
a Miss Evejeigh’i St. Sidwell's, Exeter: and at Tho. Child'*
Rye-Market, Stourbridge, Worcestershire. '
€ntcreD at Stationer's $>aH,
R
tourbrJdgti Printedby J. Htminjr
Digitized by L , o o Q l e
