{"name":"A Warning To The World","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1804__southcott___a_warning_to_the_world.pdf","mytitle":"A Warning To The World","mylang":"de"}
WARNING TO THE WORLD.
JOANNA SO U TH CO TTS PROPH ECIES.
LONDON: PRINTED BY U ROUSSEAU, WOOD STREET, SPA FIELDS;
AMD SOLD BY E.J. FIELD, NO. 2, HIGH STREET, ST. GILES'S.
As a letter of mine- hath been made public amongst
mankind of the events of the year, and men lay,
“ Where is the Truth of her Prophecies ?”— I am
now ordered again to publish them to the world, that •
every man may judge for himself. For believers,
as well as unbelievers, have drawn a wrong judgment
from them, as they do not appear clear to the judg­
ment of any, but the ju ry; and their judgment was
drawn from their often meeting together, and weigh­
ing the communications with each other.— But
I muft confess they drew their judgment clearer'
than I had, before the meaning was explained to me,
and which was unknown to them before they bad
passed their judgment. As to my judgment, 1never
underflood wbat 1 have written, before the meaning
was explained to me; so that all have been fulfilled
different from my judgment, and now I am assured
this will be the same, contrary to the judgment that
I have drawn—-therefore 1 am not afraid to publish
to the world thp very Prophecies that my enemies
have fo much mocked me for; and who affirmed they
Were false. Therefore I shall give them to the wotld
| at large, that they may judge fo r: themselves,
r In the month of November 1803, after being mock-*
a ••
& ^ 4 " y v c\'° ° s ie
ed by many that said, unless they had seen sfgitfr
and wonders they would not believe— I was answer­
ed, they should mark the weather; that is, the 2 4
days from New Year’s Day, then they should he?
compared with the ensuing year.— This I made pub­
lic, and believers and unbelievers marked the wea­
ther of the 24 days. On the 14th of January, I was-
'answered in the following manner :— “ I shall give a
clear sign from the weather to believers ; for unto*
them it is given to know the mystery, but from the
world it is hid. How weak was all your judgment 1
to suppose 1 meant from any weather to set a clear
sign of this present year, for them to know what wao
haftening on, when I have already told thee, like a
snare it shall come upon them in a day they little
think of, and in an hour unaware: for as they have
said, they want not the knowledge of theMoft H igh ,
the knowledge of the Moft High they shall not have.
— For in the signs of the weather I only meant tot
mock the unbelief of mankind, that say, unless they
see signs and wonders they will not believe; so the
signsof the weather are not for them/unl^as they draw
their own judgment;*$£ their own judgment will de­
ceive them, as your own judgment hath deceived
y o u ; because you thought there would be some
wonderful weather.— The twelfthday alludesto Janu­
ary. Some part cloudy, and sunshine appeared in the
middle of the day.— Now I answer, this month will
be cloudy to the Nation— but no Enemy will land
this month, neither will any fatal dangers be in thm
month, but the sunshine will come to believers; for
the sunsliine-of my words, the sunshine of my pro­
mises, and the sunshine of my truth, shall be made-
clear to them, and break out strong upon them; but
eloud&and thick darkness will be unto thousands—
not knowing whether they will break off or not;
but believers will see by an Eye of Faith, they wilt
not break in this month, (January). The 13th day,
which is for the second month, (February), was
8 A WARN IN tf TO TflK WORLD1
.
• Digitized by Google
cloudy and rainy in the morning, which broke off
with winds in the afternoon.— Now I tell thee clouds
will gather in February, and men will be exposed to
dangers, as thy friends were exposed to go out in the
storm*; but as the storm soon broke off from them,
so will the storm break off from believers : they
seed not fear the storm, for my sunshine shall rise
upon them ; when dangers Appear I will dismiss the
clouds that are over their heads. Now why is thy
mind confused because I ordered thee to mark 94
days i Thou sayest, how can this be placed right,
12 days for the past, and 13 for the present ? I an­
swer,the 12 days part the year,so I shall partthedays;
for the last month must bring it in to the following
year. Sol shall placeNewYear’s Day to the full month
in the year; the second day to the second month
in the year ; the third day to the third month; for that
will not he the weather, which you say is fine and
pleasant. But I now tell thee it will bring in * * *
* * * * * * * * * *.” These were the lastwords spoken
to me on Saturday night the 14th day, and I went
tobed dissatisfied, as no furtherexplanation wasgiven
to me. But in the night, hetween one and two
o’clock in the morning, I was awoke with a loud
poise on the stair plat, and as I lay awake, it
seemed like a large ir o n b a l l that seemed to
roll from stair to stair t h r e e s t a ir s d o w n ; I
lay awake much affrighted, fearing some one had
come into the house, so I kept awake till after two,
hut hearing all was silent, I went to sleep again. The
Sunday morning the 15th day, .or 4th day, I was
ordered to write it out, and then to write a'dream I
had in 1792, of the Cattle.— In 1792, I dreamt I
was looking at a castle that stood on four pillars,
and a large garden before it. I saw a woman come
out of the castle, who appeared in white ; she walked
very swift up and down the garden, with something
9 When two friends of Joanna went away there camo ou a storu^
Vfakhended iivhalf an hour.
A 2
A WARMING TO THE WOELB. ‘ 3
. Digitized by Google
in her hand, which she waved to and fro. The -w ind
blew back her cloak, and I shw she was a skeleton,
nothing but bones ; as I saw her leg! the same : at th is
I was afraid ; and, looking at her, saw her face wGs
fat and full. She looked on me and smiled, a n d
.made fast one eye. I was afraid, and went ro u n d
the castle, where I saw a large house full of d ir ty
linen, that people were washing. I then came to
the other side of the castle, and saw a large num ber
of people coming down from the steps— betwixt th e
castle and the garden there was a large number o f
gentlemen and ladies tumbling down the steps o n e
after the other very fast— and so crowded that th ere
was scarce room or time to go down without falling.
— When I had written thus far, I was ordered to
write of the Skeleton that was found in the Bishop’s
Cave, when the Letter of his death in*1796 h ad
been put into the hands of the Rev. Mr. Pomeroy
the 3d day of June, of a sign of the death of B i­
shop Buller, which should be at the end o f th e
year.— and so sure should all the others follow ;
and that there was no infufion in thy writings.— T h e
Bishop died at the end o f the year, and a skeleton
was found in his cave, or vault.
When I had written this, I was ordered to open
my Prayer Book, and it was at the 80th Psalm, “ O h
Israel's Shepherd, Joseph's Guide,— How long will
thy fierce anger burn ?” These lines are not joined in
the Psalm ; but I was ordered to join them to­
gether— and then open my Praytr Book again,
which I did, and found it at the ending of the Psalms,
and of the Prayers on the Seas.— The laft verse in
the Psalms I was ordered to pen,“ Let every thing that
hathbreath praise the Lord." When I had written this,
I was answered in the following manner : “ Now I
will tell thee, how long my fierce anger shall bum,
T IL L . A L L THAT HATH BREATH PRAISE MY N AM E.”
— Then I will be Israel's Shepherd, Joseph’s Guide;
for the decrees are gone out of my mouth,— And
4 . A WARNING TO THE WORLD
Digitized by Google
now I will tell thee why I left thee on Saturday night.
W ith these words it will bring i n * * * * * * * * * * * * ;
and in the night I awoke thee with the noise on the
stair plat, that seemed to roll from stair to stair
t h r e e s t a ir s d o w n ; and now l tell thee, they have
three things to fear, 'viz.** The Sword— the Plague,
or some fatal disease like the Plague, to carry them
off— and the Famine.” But I do not tell thee all
these evils will come together in this Land— but
this Land may begin to tremble ; for the hearts of
men are like the muddy water thou sawest on a
journey: for though the Bible is so plain before them
— they are like Moore, who said, if my Kingdom
comes, they cannot prevent it— but they will not try
to further it— neither will they give themselves the
least trouble to administer truth to their hearers— -'
nor give themselves the trouble to judge for them­
selves, whether these things are so or not. For I
tell thee their hearts are like the weather, neither
hot nor cold— but lukewarm. Therefore I will
make them s i c k with smiting them, and make
them desolate, because of their sins:— For so loud as
thou heardest the noise in the night between the
two days ; so loud shall England know their dangers
are great when it comes to March and A p ril;
and as the stone seemed to roll from stair to stair,
so shall men begin to fall by Sea and by Land.
They shall tumble down one after the other— and
t h e t h i r d they have to fear ; therefore thou
openest thy Prayer Book to the Psalms, joining the
Prayers on the Seas. So Sea and Land may both
tremble, for my anger is kindled against the Shep­
herds, and they shall drink the Cup of my Fury—
for now is coming the end of that Vision, where
thou sawest the Skeleton walk hasty to and fro— and
hasty to and fro the arrows of death shall fly ; for I
will not spare Horse nor Rider. They shall tumble
down one after the other,, as they tumbled down the
steps; for I have tried them with blessings; I have
A WARNING TO THE WORLD. $
Digitized by L j O O Q i e
i'
kept back the enemy that threatened them; and their
hearts'are but hardened the more— therefore, as th e
clouds have gathered in these days, so shall theygather
in these months, that these days allude to. “ Clouds
and thick darkness shall be over the land ; f o r i
have fulfilled my word in the three years that are past,
so will 1 fulfil them in the years to come ; as I told
thee in the 1600th, that I should begin in the fourth
year of the century, if unbelief should abound.**
When these threatenings were spoken to me, my heart
trembled, and my hand shook, as I felt pity for an
ungrateful world. I was then ordered to leave m y
pen and go to my employment, which 1 did, and
began to ponder deep in my heart, that as nothing
but judgments would awaken -the nation to believe
in the visitation of the L oad, and be looking for the
Coining of C H R IST ; therefore I could not pray to
prevent the judgments, if unbelief would abound
without them.— I was answered to these ponderings
o f my heart; “ As I knew thy heart began to swell,
1 ordered thee to go to thy employment, to try the
ponderings of thy heart, if thou wouldest wish to
prevent them; but thou sayest if ray Kingdom must
fall, or the nations must fall, as they will not believe
without judgments, let the nations fall, and m y
Kingdom stand to be established on the ruins ; and
let Satan's kingdo:n fall with those who wish to keep
him up ; but thou sayest thy heart is tom with d if­
ferent passions ; love and anger, pity for man, and
angry with them for their unbelief; but Satan’s king*
dom thou wishest to fall; therefore thou .sayest in thy
heart,
Thou camt not wish m#to give up my word*
Nor beg my angels to shut up the sword.
And now I tell thee my feelings are like thine*
lqve and anger mixed together. I pity the ignorant
sons of men : but how can I screen them, and pour
out my fury on the Devil, without they were wish,
ing for his destruction, and my Kingdom to be
<> A WAANrNO TO TRB WOULD.
Digitized by G o o g l e
A W AIKIKO -TO THS W O IId£
- Jf
cttabKshed ? No other way in honour can I protect
nan; for as you condemn each other for hypocrisy,
sodoth Satan condemn all men; and there is no way'
lean confound him and condemn him but by their
mitten hand, and there is no other way I can justify
man to the D svil but by their hand writing against
h
im
, and that they wish my W ill to be done upon
earth, by destroying that power that tempts men to .
tin againft M E . And now let all men look to Job;
did I not justify him ? but how did Satan condemn <
/#
*
him before I gave him power to try him ? And now 7
I have givenup to his words to try man the same.
Oh ye sons of men 1 could ye suppose such trial®
could be given to Job to please the Malice of the '
Devil, if I had not wise ends in it, to shew you at
tht last 1 mean to confound Satan in his own words,'
and give up to his own wisdom to justify man and
confound him; and now to confound him this is done ;
therefore believers are justified by faith, and they
that do not believe will perish through unbelief.
So let not thy heart be wounded, nor thy spirits Be
grieved. Shall 1 see the different conduct of man­
kind and not make different dealings with them ?-
See the love of man on the one hand, what they are
doing in love to me, while others are mocking m y
coMwe.*—Then should I now prolong the judg­
ments, . I must wound my friends, and give place to
the Devil to make their foes to rejoice.— Therefore
the thorn must be in their flesh ; the longer and the
deeper must the wound go. So if thou lovest thy
enemies, andhatest thy friends, prayibr the judgments
tobe prolonged.— But if thou lovest thy friends, let
thy heart be chearful, and know, the God o f the
whole earth will do right. Do I not know what
nun is ? Do I not know what they will be ? Do I not
know the arts of Satan, how he works to blind their
tyes ? Therefore it is better to cut off a right hand,
« to pluck out a right eye, th^n to have the whole
ttfron to perish: for Satan would soon find a way
Digitized
3d by Google
for all to perish, if my judgments were prolonged#
Therefore, the word is gone out of my mouth, and
it shall not return; for my decrees are fixed.
And now let reason take possession of thy h eart:
Dost thou wish the wicked to live to add sin to sin,
and to fill up their measures the greater i As to the
righteous, if I take them, I shall take them from the
evils to come ; for 1 shall now dojustice to all men ;
and justice now demands my love to my friends,
that have shewed such love to me, therefore their
lamps I will trim with oil, and make them burn
brigh t: for now the truth shall follow my words.
M en have had threeyears to mock while I tried them
with bleflings; and now is coming my time to punish.
For no more than they have seen the sun for these
days, no more shall they see the sunshine of m y
countenance in the months these days allude t o ; for
1 shall reward them according to their doings: for
now will 1 curse their blessihgs; my anger is kindled,
my fury shall go forth, and my foes shall hill before
me. For as the heavens have gathered blackness,
so shall the months gather blackness over, your land »
and all lands may begin to tremble, for the day o f
the Lord is at hand ; a day of clouds and thick dark­
ness, a day of gloominess and heaviness, for the day
of judgment is begun. Let not thy heart fail thee,
nor thy hand tremble, for the nations shall drink
the cup of my fury. Oh England, England, how
long have I warned thee, how long have I threaten­
ed thee, how long have 1 invited thee to accept o f
offered mercies, and told thee my kingdom o f
peace was approaching i But how few regard m y
love ? How tew regard my honour ? How few re­
gard the invitation : Are not most men like Moore,
who says, “ if my kingdom come we cannot prevent it
but will not give themselves the trouble to search out
the truth, whether these things are so or not. Now
I tell tfiee, there are tens of thousands in your land
who would have acted like Moore ; therefore I told
ft A WABNIH6 TO THE W O BtD.
Digitized by Google
jf fh ' ✓ /chj/
aa**) tfC> t e l
**+ur
k tfA'ftNltfG t o tHE WORtl)* 9
thee in 179^, the ministers, should weep between the
porch and the altar ;‘an<J now hctWe’en .the porch, and
the altar they shall weep.-^-For I have no\y tried 1 *
Gentiles, and of the two they aje worse than
Jews; and was I to come again m the body, like the.
Jews, they would pufme to tfgamr . For they might
as well- believe T workcd miracles by the Devil, as
believe the Devilis come’ to plead his own destruc­
tion, and remind, men of ,the promise madje, in .the
fall; or that he is come to destroy;Ws own Kingdom,
and to exalt m i n e ,— Oh, ye bund leaders of the •
blind, Jiow will ye fall into fh^ ditch together! Did
I not warn you- of Ku these things before ; that J
should come again to judge the world-in.righteous­
ness ? D id T not give you the parable from the Fig
Tree, from the-wars and tumults, from distresses and
perplexities of nations, fron> divisjops of nations, fiord
divisions in houses and families,, from false prophets
and false Christs ? Are not all the^e.things together?
Did I not warn you of true prophets, that the Holy
Ghost, which was the Comforter, the Father would
send in my Name, to bring all things to your remem-
brancc?. And now all the Bible is brought to you£
remembrance, from the creation to your-redemption:
but how few- regard whether they are redeemed or
not ? Did I not say o^bpees- must first come ? But
woe unto the land because of oflhhces : and'are'nOC
offences come strong in this land ? Now judge for
yourselves, ye. fallen sons of, Adaip, what a hizard-
tliis woman hath run to follow on to know the Lord,
or by what Spirit she was led. Did she not rim the
hazard, in the fiirft place, to lose all slie had in the
world, and to leave all to follow on to know if I had
spoken by her ? Did she not ruii the hazard of
kindling the wrath pf hell against- her,,, by-her dis­
pute with Satan in the. beginning, (-that is, in I,"92) ?
Did she not run the hazard of being discovered, if
awrong Spirit had led her, by putting the letters in
thebands o f ministers ? Did she not run-the hazard
Digitized by L i O O Q l e
*'
4^U5-i
10 A ,X
fASKING TO THS ttofittf.
of poverty and distress by printing, when her book#
lay Dy her ? Did she go to cloak the truth from th e
men who came to Exeter to search out the truth ?
Did she not warn them to go to the bottom of every
truth, and send to her enemies to be her witnesses f
Does she try to conceal her written hand ? Does sh e
not try to bring all to read that will learn ? D id
she not run the hazard of being imprisoned when
I ordered her to write to the Parliament ? D id
she conceal the truth of this present war before
it broke out ? Did she not run another danger­
ous hazard in her dispute with Satan seven days
atone by herself ? And did she not faithfully tell her
fears when the Devil alarmed her ? Did she conceal’
the answer that was given her when the knock cam e
so loud on her table, that must have been a token o f
her death if any wrongfSpirit had led her ? But was
she not faithful unto death, and said, if She lived, her
visitation was from the Lord, and she would obey ;
and was she not faithful to obey ? Now judge for
yourselves,‘ye sons of men, what hazards this woman
hath run, believing, if there was a God, there must
be a faithful Goa— that will nqt permit her thus to
be deceived, nor give my wisdom, honour, nor power,
to another ; but that etjery good and perfect gift-
must come down from the gather of Light. NoW
1 have laid before you her upright dealings with God
and man. But bow do you judge your God. if you
judge I will deceive her ? No, no— I tell you I will
never leave her, nor forsake her, but pour out my
fury on her enemies, as she has suffered such reproach
for my sake ; and so shall the land suffer for their
ingratitude. And now mark this day, the seventh
month, (l 7th day of Januaryj which is for July—
0
A
-<ryfo/r^cu*l
Then here the mist shal bring the rust,
Upon yotfr every grain;
It meti do longer mock and jest.
The famine next shall come.
Ill jest no more, ’till all be o’er,
For now I'll make an end;
Digitized by Google
And when my labour all is o’er,
1 will,enjoy my friends;
For now to them 1 mean to corner
As their desires I know5
Their laboursshall not be in vaia,
1 'U make theirjoys to flow,
For ifthe mist«e o'er the land,
My friends thelight shall see,
The truth of all they shall command
And know I’ve spoke by thee;
For now their love I will reward.
My Lqve they shall enjoy;
But how my foes can I regards
My honour they destroy.
For now to jneafon Til begin.
And let your thoughts go deep;
If I am Ifrael's God and Kingt
A guard that do pot sleep;
Then all your private ways I know,
Your public actions see;
When my Decrees were seal'd below®
praises were sung to me.—
r
Apd then my S.upper was set jbrth ,
In token true of Iove;-r
And for my Coming this shall be,
Forevery qause I’ll iriove,
That nowisaeent?stand between
My chosen friends and me; v
My harvest fast I'll gather in,
And my delight shall be,
I fay, with man, as they’ve begun
To shew their loye so clear,
Thou saidst to bear the mock of men,
To wish/ny JCingdotn here;
* • ‘Then now my Live they'll surely prove
To be more great than man’s.
And from the shadow you have here,
I tell thee fo ’twill come. /
1
Twenty-first dayo fJanuary, or ninth month in the
year. '
And then I tell thee, men may mourn like the
run, or roar like the winds, and say— the harvest is
over; the day is ended, but we are not saved : for I
shall cut short the harvest, if I do npt destroy i t ;
sadI shall cut short the land also. For now my call­
ingis like the wind, that every soul shall see and
find, and will' as loudly now go on. The end­
ing of this year will come, to make my chosen call
slood, and prove the truth they have seen and heard.
That is, I say my chosen men, they will say the
clouds did gather in, as thou didst tell them all be-
B 2
A WASHING TO T H E W0RL®. I t
Digitized by Google
fore. The truth of all they will see and hear, b efo re
the elventh month doth coate. So they m ig h t
mourn if thou art gone— .
1
Because the famine -then they’ll fear,
To see it in the following year,
If men don’t hasty then repent;
Because my mind is fully bent.
If England will not turn to me.
The’famine they shall surely see;
Wheu l have stop'd the raging war,
For short and sliarpit shall how appear.
The clouds will gather fas‘ at first,
That in your land they strong will bdr*t f
And ifyour foes 1conquer here,
It is for those that wish me he^e,
Their King and Conqueror for to be.
Then 1must wound your enemy; ,
If they invade this very land.
My Scaled People they shall stand.
I say to sec their foes to foil;
He cannot come to conquer all.
Tho* havoc great l know hell make,
But, oh, my'friends shall l forsake ?
Mo!—l will not leave them at that time.
But now within I know thy mind.^-
% 4
1If all these things should so appear,
The sw'ord and plague come in one year;
Or any fatal like disease.
So perfect come like my decrees,
Can unbelief abound in man?
The truth so plain they must discern;
Withall the truths that are past before:
Can unbelief in man appear ?
*
*
I nto thy thoughts l answer thed,
The thing is possible to be.
ljl. A J V ^ n;Nj
S. TO THJB.-WOttp.,
. TJti.e 23d of .January, Joanna was ordered, to go
out at 10 o’clock to mark the night. A great change
had taken place from the day to the night. As great
as the change has taken place this day, so will the
change come over your land ; the mist will gather
fast upon them— a bright morning will bring in a
cloudy and misty evening. For as the clouds co­
vered both moon and stars last .night, so will all be
cloudy at the end of this year; for all hearts will be
as heavy as thine hath been this d a y ; for I tell
thee, this year will end in a mist to mankind. Be­
lievers will see the light of the morning; but on the
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
A flr&xwnre t o x n e v o u .b . 3 9
vth«r*thp mtst will cover them ; though thou sayest,
ifall come true this year, how can unbelief- abound i
To this I answer, will men read and judge lor them-
selves ? Thou answereat, no. Then how can men
Wconvinoed by the judgments ? 1 tell thee, no
The sheep will perish for want o f shepherds. For
fallthe judgments I havethreatened shall come upon
(he land this year, and a yearof sorrows, as you have
sever yet seen, yet it will end as a mist over your
had. T h e stars yvill be sealed in sorrow, and the
cloud* will keep.
The following communication was given to me
concerning my friends, who I believed were ill, by .
their long s'rienW; and as 1 was going to send a let­
ter about my fears, I was Ordered to enquire for a
letter, before I dropped mine in the post; which my
friend did, who returned rejoicing to find a letter,
which dismissed all my fears; and then I cast my
former letter in the fire. Simple as it may appear
to mankind, it was answered to me, as a type for
me and the nationj in the following manner :
It was I that worked within thee to make an en­
quiry before the letter was put in the post, as I knew
there was a letter there to dismiss thy fears; theletter
came, and thy fears vanished, and was consumed in
the fire at the endof the day, as thou little thoughtest
of, and in an hour unaware * ; for while thy fears
were writing, the letter that dismissed them was com­
ing. Now here stands the type deep for your land,
andfor thee, and all true believers; for when your
fears are most alarmed, and thou beginnest most to
fear; in that very day and hour thou art ready to
link; like the letter that was ready to sink, or be
dropped in the post, thy deliverance will come, and
thy friends and believers will rejoice, as Turner did
when Ire came home with the letter; for I tell thee,
that is but the shadow, the fubstance will be great to
all. Solet this shadow be kept in remembrance to you
* Joanna did not think the posthad come in,
Digitized by CjQOQle
for every, type and shadow goes deep, and a s
thy fears were consumed in the fire, so they shall b e
consumed and vanished, by the fire of my love, a n d
the fire of men's anger; for, as the fire is good, t o
warm you, so shall my love warm you, and dism iss
all .your fears ; and as a fire that is furious kindles
flames, so will the fire ofSatan’s malice kindle flam es
in men also; and then all thy fears will Be dismissed,
and my truth will stand before thee, like t h e
letter; to shew thee thou hast feared a fear where n o
fear was: for all thy fears have been as fruitless an d
as wrong as it was to fear thy friends’ illness, when
thou sawest his hand writing before thee; and ju s t
the same thou shalt see it is m y h a n d w j u t i n s th a t
is before thee. And now I shall come to tfe nation ;
for in like manner it will come ujjon them in a d a y
they do not think of, and in an hour unaware; th e
news will come to them that tji.eir dangers are great ;
as the truth is to thee, so are the dangers to your land ;
for know, I told thee thy fears must come -first,
and the land must first boast; but thy fears shall
vanish, and the land shall fear: for when the news
is brought to thee that thy fears are vanished, the
fears -of the nation will been fire, burning like th y
letter; and the fire of mine anger shall burn then*
up ; for their faith or fear is, it ivili not come ; but
when they begin to fear dangers, they will find then)
kindled like the flames of thy letter; for their fears
will be kindled to a flame to consume them. For
now I shall come to the purpose with all men,
I said in the beginning I only meant to mock those
that said, unless they saw signs and wonders they
wopld not believe. Now thou sayest in thy heart,
that believers are stumbled thereby. To this I an­
swer, how could I try their faith without foiling
them, for they have not weighed the whole together ;
neither have they discerned ; what was stud was not
to be understood by the world at large. D o met)
Simply suppose I meant to set signs, like the wisdom
, 14 A WAKNING TO THB WOULD.
Digitized by U o o Q l e
$fmen, to tell them in a straight line what should
happen, and what shall come on *, as your simple
wisdom is ? Thou knowest 1 told thee it was not for
die unbelieving world to know the times nor seasons '
when it would come on, but only given to believers;
but your wisdom hath been to act contrary to my
words; and ye have made it public amongst man­
kind : what 1 said was for believers only; therefore
ye have foiled yourselves and seen the truth of my
Words, that judgments deferred to another March
and Aprilwould einly place thorns inbelievers’breasts,
and add to their sorrows ; for my wisdom is, first to
let believers feel the mockery of mankind, and heigh­
ten their sorrows, before I heightened their deliver­
able i and gave the land room to boast, as Pharoah
did. Tor thou knowest what I said of the Egyptian
host, in the l&OOth. I tell thee thou must look to the
past, to know the events of this year; and the fatal
dangers that are threatened, they may expect anothert-
but 1 tell thee, the shadow o fall will come this yearj
andlhe preparation that is making, will bring in the
' dangers that are threatened ; but mark, 1 told thee
they would not come all at once-, and yet all at once,
they that are believers are looking for them, con­
trary to what was said. I told thee, that unbelievers
should have no knowledge of the time, day, nor
hour: now ye have told them of a time, day,
and hour, when they are to expect it; and so
four wisdom would make m y w o rds false, if the-
substance of what was said of March and April,
was to roll on this March and April; but if you
Weigh every shadow, 1 tell thee every shadow hath
appeared; and every shadow of what 1 said will fol­
low this year; but the aweful substance will not
come, until the following year; then cometh the
substance of every shadow. For as I have told thee,
• Many believers at Leeds and other parts, did from their own
jidgments inform unbelievers of wbat was to take place, when it was
declared it was hid from the understandingof Ike world.
4 WABWlNQ TO THK /W OH tB . I I
Digitized by L s o o g i e
* WAKNIlTCf tot *»« wrottLO.
|
J
_~-~, cv*
^
s'shall wot come in' thy, days, afid tfjdQ
- tremblest to pen them ; thoU wilt not see the fitaj
1 *1 t"3* ^dl bring deliverance to your land1; arid
i, **JI what that is I snail conceal from thee, as thou
snakest all things known to mankind. Now T have
seen the wisdom of men ; arid yet; I do not' Blame
their wisdom, for it is upright dealings .as men. But
know, I-am a God that' will hot be mocked by man^j
and as men Have mocked my warnings, mqekedmy
invitation, heard o f my kingdom approaching and
will not lay it to heart, nor regard my comings—oniv
enquire if the enemy is Coming ! That curiosity ta
not consistent with my wisdom,.to' let them know
whem danger^ will come upon them ; for then the
unbelieving wond will have as much knowledge as
m y friends, who aredesitous for my coming to esta­
blish mv kingdom. A id 1what would the wife' un­
derstand more than the foolish arid1the wicked, if
T should act to' the wisdom of men, to bring all
things in a straight line before them ? 't'his way is
never my Wisdom ; for then tfty Wisdom-must fall
like the Wisdom o f Man arid never lead men ro thb
depth of my Wisdom ; neither Would they trace
my footsteps todiscerh my ways, or decrees; for
Tnow tell thee, if I was to Order thee to publisii tb
the world the events of this year and*the two fol­
lowing, and' all' was to Come in a straight1line ; as
many Thorisands o f Books, as thou hast published
already, would not be enough to supply their cu-,/
riosity, to have this Book; and all thy other Books
would be disregarded by M^n— what need say they of
the others, to know the Wisdom of God in creatidn,
or in preservation, as long as we know what is before
u s ; whether we shall escape die dangers or not.
' But rhis was not tho-intent of my Visitation to thee:
my Visitation to thee tfas to bring men'to the Know­
ledge of the Good, as Satan brought them to- the Know­
ledgeof the Evil-, and for Men to read my wordsand
judge of my ways, that I might search their hearts
Digitized by G o o g l e
and prove them, and they that approve of my
ways, my wisdom, and my decrees, will be fit
companions to reign with m e ; but they that disap *
prove them will never reign with m e in my King­
dom of Peace, either enthroned above, or here below.
That is, they will not be my companions, nor visits
this lower world, to join with the church militant
here on earth, to reign with me in glory, as my
companions to visit men. For the saints that are
now living, and ashamed of m e and my Gospel, and
of the wisdom of my Death, the manner of my
Coming in the Spirit, to reveal all mysteries unto
them, I shall be ashamed of them before my Fa­
ther, which is in Heaven. For I now tell thee, they
that despise thy writings, do not despise thee, but
m e; as the writings are not thine, but mine. It is
not thy wisdom but my wisdom to accomplish in,
the woman what she was created for; and what I
died for, to bear the blame for man, that Satan
might bear what was cast on him, by the Woman.
Now if this wisdom is despised by men, and they
are ashamed to hear that my Death must be turned
back on Satan’s head, I shall be-ashamed of them,
when they come before my Father in glory; For
though I do not say the righteous, that believe in
m e, shall perish; but .in my Father’s house there
are many mansions; and as one star differeth from
another in the firmament, so will one star differ from
t another in glory, for so will the difference of the
' saints above be. It is them that are longing for
m e, to bring in my Kingdom, to dwell with them,,
that will reign wirh me in my Kingdom ; and where
I am they shall be also,’ that enjoy my Kingdom a-
bove, to be welcomed into the joy of their Lord, when
ray delight is with the sons of men, then will their,
delight be with them also; for the church triumphant
willjoin with the church militant here on eaith. But
how can they be united together, that have no share
orlot in the matter ? I tell thee, no: great now will be
c
A WARNING TO THE WORLD. 17
Digitized by LjOoqle
the difference of departed Chriftians ; for none-cam
enter into the joy of their Lord, that now mock m y
words; for I shall be as much ashamed of their wis­
dom, as they are now ashamed of mine. It is not
the wicked, that are confined with their master, that
I shall be ashamed of before my Father, which is in
heaven, for I cannot be ashamed of them there, be­
cause there they will not come.”
The above communication was read to a large
company at Leeds, when a man started op and said,
it was not in the Scripture, for the Lord to be
ashamed of any righteous people; for it was the Jews
only that our Saviour alluded to ; and as to the curse
being cast on the Devil, he said then the man and
•woman must he freed ; but he argued the curse was
not cast on the Devil’
, for it was cast alike on the man
and the woman, and they ought to have obeyed
what the Lord had said unto them. Some of m y
friends disputed with him concerning the Fall, and
of the artful manner the Devil betrayed the wo­
man ; but he still argued the fault was in the man
and the woman. I then disputed with him myself;
but finding him determined to clear the Devil, and
cast the whole blame on the woman, contrary to the
Scriptures, as he wduld not allow that a curse
cast on the Serpent must ever take place. I then told
him to quit the room, as lie was afriend to the De­
vil', as I had invited my friends there to take my
leave of them, and would not be interrupted by his
contention ; as I had proposed to spend the day with
my. friends only; for many had come from a great
distance to see me; but he refused leaving the room,
and he would stay: then one of my friends said,
“ every man that is against him, let him hold up his
hand.” Immediately every man in the room held
up his hand, to shew they were all against him; and
lie was immediately put out of the room, as an enemy
to the human race, and a friend to the D evil; that
would sooner sec mankuuj perish, than the Devil to
18 A WARNING TO TllE W O «U ).
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
A WAR NING TO THB WORLD. IQ
* ►
have his curse pronounced upon him. I, After this,
said to a lady in the room, it could not appear t« me
to come from a wrong Spirit, to say, those that were
Ashamed of the wisdom of God here upon earth,
the Lord would be ashamed of their wisdom in
heaven. For a father might love his child, but if
the child mocked the wisdom of his father and de­
spised it,the father raightbe ashamed of the conduct
o f the child: ye^ he might love his child, if he knew ,
the child loved him : but yet he might be ashamed
o f the child that bad mocked and despised his father’s
wisdom. Another thing struck deep upon my mind
and heart,, of my own 6ister, that I once loved as my
own life ; ' and she expressed every tender k>ve and
regard for me, before I was visited by the S p ir it o f ^
t h e L ord by prophecy ; then she began to ‘blame
me, and offered to assist me in any thing in this
world, if I would give up my prophecies ; but in this
she would not assist me at a ll; but blamed my fol­
lowing on to know the Lord, or by what Spirit I was
led. So her blaming me in this matter hath lessen­
ed my love and esteem for her, and heightened my •
ldrc for strangers, that I never before had seen, and
who joined with mein heart and mind, that I ought
to follow on to kBGw in whom I had believed ; and
though I was well assured my sister loved me ; and
I once loved her in the most tender manner ; but as
she was ashamed of my believing this to .be from the
Lord, I must say I was ashamed of her wisdom, when
.she had written to a minister, that she feared my visi­
tation might be from the Devil, a$anangel of L igh t:
although this minister said her judgment was as wild
and erroneous as Sir Egerton Lee’s, who had drawn
the like conclusion on theiga as before- I said tq
the minister, I could not believ.|e my sister’sjudg­
ment, as she told me as far back as 1792, none
of my prophecies wou'Jdtake place; for we should see
no war, nor dearth, nor any trouble in the land ;
asEngland w$s never in a more nourishing state, an4 jp
f 2
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
so she judged it was like to remain,. The rev. gen­
tleman answered, she had erred in her judgment
there; and I answered him, I believed she erred as
much now, to judge my visitation was from the
Devil, as she did in 1792. This conversation was
in 1801, after I had begun to publish to the world,
as she thought to stop me, fearing I should bring
jnyself to a prison, by running into expences that I
could not afford ; though I was truly convinced she
did it out of a mistaken love to me, yet her conceit
of her own opinion, to think she cot\ld be a better
judge for me than I was for myself, hath lessened
my love for her, and though I wish every blessing
to attend her, both spiritual and temporal; yet, I
could not be happy to live with her, nor enjoy any
pleasure in her company, and my anger is mixed w ith
love, as I know she hath a mistaken love for m e; b u t
her persuasions would make me of all women the
most wretched andmiserable, should I attend to them ;
for then I must begin in the spirit and end in the
flesh ; and, my last error must be worse than' the
first, if I was in an error in 1792, to obey
my call, that I might know if my visitation
Was from the Lord ; but now I am clearly convinced
it is of G od ; then I must have begun in the spirit,
and now to end in the flesh if I give it up/and bring
myself to a fatal end; for I would sooner suffer
death than so to do. The glory ofGod and the good
of mankind is all I have had in view, and have suf­
fered all the sorrows I have passed through. These
ponderings of my heart I was ordered to put ip print,
and shall now give the answer of the Spirit, how it
has compared the Kingdom of Heaven with these
parables.
“ Now I shall answer the poriderings of thy heart:
know, I- compared the Kingdom of Heaven to the
likeness of men here upon earth. As thou hast drawn
thy judgment from a father and a child, just so it is
with m b and m y children, that look to m e as their
2 0 A WARNING TO THE WORLD.
Digitized by Google
f a t h e r which is in h e a v e n : yet as thou sayest,
a father is offended to hear a child blame his fathers
wisdom, just so am I ashamed of my children that
now blame my wisdom ; so Jet father's of children
judge from this parable, and let those Christians,
who look to the L ord as their f a t h e r , judge
for themselves, how they will appear before m e ,
that have judged m y w isd o m foolishness; and
thought themselves more wise than their T e a c h e r :
and they as Creatures more wise than their C r e a t o r .
H ow will they appear before me, let them judge
from a child, that has disgraced its father's wisdom,
and counted it foolishness; how will it blush tocome
before its father to be reproved ? Let this parable
sink deep in the hearts of the readers. For in like
manner they must be ashamed to approach that
G od they have despised. But thou sayest in thy
heart, they do not know they are despising the w i s ­
d o m of the L o r d . T o this I answer, as they arc
despising the wisdom revealed to thee from the
L o r d , then how will they appear, when they know
it is the L o r d ’s Wisdom ? W ill not this as much
shame the Gentiles as the Jews ? Is it not as much
to the one as to the other ? For though hand join
in hand, I tell thee the wicked shall not go unpunish­
ed who despise the ways of the Lord ; therefore,
let all men judge for themselves, lest they are judg­
ed, of the Lord; and let all men know, the saints
in glory would not be compared to the stars in
the firmament, if the difference was not great.
Now I shall come to thee and thy sister, for there the
type goes deep. Thou once loved thy sister as thy
life, before she blamed thy conduct in listening to
the V o ic e jof the L o r d , which she judged was not
the L o r d ’s ; and though thou art convinced in
thy mind that it is in love to thee, that she persecutes
the Spirit that visits thee ; yet, this mistaken love
in her, lessens thy love for her, and draws thy love
to others, who are not after the flesh as brothers and
A WARNING TO THE WORLD. 21
Digitized by LjO
OQL
e
sisters, but after thy spirit. Now I tell thee, this p a ­
rable of tliee and thy sister goes deep for all m an­
kind ; for I now tell thee, I have many professed
Christians who believe in m b after the manner o f
my Coming in the Flesh ; and they, like thy sister's
Jove to thee, they love me after the manner of m y
first Coming; and I love them ; and so they were
joined with me in the flesh, because I suffered in
the flesh for them ; and I loved them as my life, to
die for diem : but now I am come in the s p i r i t ,
they have departed from m e , as thy sister is from
thee-; and they are blaming m e as thy sister blames
thee ; then they must know, as thy sister’s unbelief
hath lessened thy love for her, their unbelief hath
lessened mine also ; because they have judged.jm y
•wisdom foolishness. Then how can I have any more
delight to dwell with them, than thou hast to dwell
with thy sister ? I tell thee n o : the parable is deep
for all men. But thou sayest in thy heart, thou hast
still a love for thy sister, and vvishest her to be happy
both in time and eternity ; yet thou const find no
comfort with her, because of her blaming thee
through her unbelief. Just so it is with m b and
these Christians that are now full of unbelief, call­
ing all my visitation to tlvee foolishness. I tell thee,
like thy sister, they have lessened my esteem for
them ; and I have no more delight with them, than
thou hast with thy sister, and thy-sister with thee ;
yet like thy love for thy sister, I wish them to be
happy, though apart from me : and for their 6akes, I
shall not kill and destroy the nation at once ! that
the judgments coming one after the other may give
them time to turn unto m e , and be joined with m k :
for know, I told thee in the beginning, t h y s i s t e r
AND THEE WAS A DEEP T Y P E OP THE N A T IO N .
\
For here the type stands deep for all,
And let the land behold tlti* cull.
HI A WARNING TO.THE WORLD.
Digitized by G o o g l e
2 3
A WAttNING TO THE WOULD;
Between thy sister here and thee,
The type goes deep of man and me.
So let these parables appear,
And let men's conscience answer here,
To see the parables are.penn'd,
And then you all may judge the end;
The way that I asham’d shall be,
Of those that now despiseth me,
Though they like sisters nia\»appcar, v
To say Mour elder brother here,
If he is come to change the sound,
That on tliis earth he may be found,
W c will not now promote his reigk,
\Ve cannot sec his wisdom plain;
To cast the ferpent in his stead,
Though well we know he made him bleed,
And now in spirit C hrist is conic,
To cast the serpent in bis room \
Which is but tolly now to we.” + « ft/srfe/*^Jo&trr
Then how with such can l agree
That in this manner do contend ?
fso9 you two sisters shew the end,
f low unto others I shall join.
That now in spirit do combine,
To vindicate my just decrees;
These are my friends,^udge as you please.
And shall be with me m the end,
As thou art now join'd with my friends.—
*
So here l'U end it with the man
That did condemn thy written hand;
And let all your hands appear
For tocondemn such folly here.
For I shall cast such Men from me,
As then they cast the man that day;
It was a Wisdom deep in man, »
To tell them to lift up their hands,
That did against the man appear;
And perfect so I tell you here,
I’ll cast the serpent by the hand,
As in that day they cast the man;
And by their handsTll make hhu go—
The type is deep, you all shall know.
And deep is the parable and the ponderings of thy
.heart that thou drawest of the father and the chil­
dren; of thyselfand thy sister: ofthe man that was put
out of the room by the men’s holding up their hands
against him— for these three types, or parables, are
deep for the end. So put the whole in print toge­
ther, and let the world judge as they please— for when
every man’s hand is lifted up against Satan, I shall
put him out of the society of men, as that man was put
Digitized by
out of the societyof thy friends; and until that is done,-
my friends cannot enjoy perfect peace and happi­
ness together. For, like that man, Satan gets in a-
anongst my friends to disturb their peace, as that man
got in amongst thy friends to disturb them. Thou
sayest in thy heart he was a friend to the Devil :
and I now tell thee, the Devil was pleading in
him.”
Here my readers may judge my senses are weak,
or myfaith is strong, to put in print the events of years,
when I am mocked by the unbelieving wotld, that
the truths do not follow as predicted ; and my friends
have drawn a wrong judgment, as well as my foes ;
so that the predictions are looked upon as false,
which I am now ordered to publish to the world. As
to my own judgment it cannot foil me now, as I
never drew a rightjudgment from my writings in my
life; therefore I rely entirely on the explanation
given me by the Spirit, and not from my own, as alF
have come true contrary to any judgment I have
formed. Now I shall lay before my readers in what
manner all have come, that foiled me at first, and
strengthened me at last.
After the war was broke out in 1793, that was fore­
told in 1792, with many other truths too tedious to
mention, I was ordered to write to a methodist
preacher ; and before he came to me I was ordered
to open my Bible : it was at the three first chapters o f
Ezekiel. I was then answered— as it was in those
chapters, so it would be with me, and them. But
when he came and told me my writings were from
the Devil, as'an angel of ligh t; and he said we knew
not one Spirit from another ; the war was all I had
jn my favour, and that would be over before Christ­
mas ; and not one thing else that I had prophesied
would take place; his arguments-greatly stumbled
me. Tears and prayers were my private companions
the following day ; J thought if m,y calling was of
God, he would not have directed me to such a man
24 A WARNING TO THE WORLD.
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
A WARMING TO THE WORLD. 25
as he, who said it was from the D evil; for I did not
understand the meaning of the chapters, before they
were explained to the strengthening of my faith, and
l was answered— “ He had erred in judgment and
stumbled in visions, for all that was revealed to me
would follow, and the war would not end, as he had
predicted, at the end of that year (viz. 1793). In
17JM I saw the truth of the words given to me, and
how wrong his judgment was, for then the truth of
the dearth began to appear. I then was ordered to'
write to him again; and he wrote to me for answer, j
“ He was of, opiniop with many, we were going to
see good days, as he then thought all would soon be
over.” Here I was again stumbled by hisr letter; and
then another sign was set before me : a kinsman of
mine was taken dangerously ill in a fever, and was /7f 4
given over by the apothecary. They sent tome to get £■
a physician; I went to see him, and judged he was
dying, and that it was fruitless to go for a physician.
But I was answered by the Spirit, “ this sickness is
not unto death; thou shalt go for the physician;
and as thou findest his judgment concerning thy
kinsman, so is Leach’s judgment concerning thy
writings,.” The physician came and pronounced him
xdying man, and said he could not recover; (this was
the sixth day of the fever). I then was answered as
before, “ this sickness is not:unto death; his fever
shall turn on the 9th day (which was on a Friday) ; ■
he shall go in the country and change the air in
the following w eek; he shall be perfectly restored to
health, and to his labour ; but his life is not of long
duration.” This I told Mrs. Taylor and my friends^
who knew of my prophecies at the very time the phy­
sician gave him over for death * ; the seventh day
of the fever, he was judged by all around him- he
could not live to see the morning, as they then thought
him dying ; and further said he would never come
O t
• The world must know that this woman would be detected by
tbtKpeople if what(he said wasfalse.
D
Digitized by L j O O Q i e
out of bed until he was taken o u t; bur I was agairj
answered as before ; arid I reproved them, saying,
“ if his fever was encreased on the 7th day it might
turn on the 9th.” The Q/h day hisfever turned, as
he was'able to take some subsistence, and was out o f
bed, and sat up some time while his bed was mak­
ing and after. On Saturday he was up some hours ;
the latter end of the week following he rode five miles
into the country to his aunt, to change the air ; and
was after perfectly restored to his health and labour ;
and lived to be set as another sign before me in
1797 ; and then he was again taken ill, and died at
the age of nearly 24. This wondrous work of the
L ord strengthened my faith against every opposition
of man, as I was well convinced none but a God
could have set such signs before me. In 1795,.
there was a tumult in Exeter Castle between the Irish
soldiers and the English officers ; their swords were
drawn and many wounded, and the city was in great
confusion that d ay; and I trembled greatly to see
the officers and the soldiers, with their naked swords
running one after the other in the streets. I then
was answered by the Spirit, “ as the shadow began
that day in England, so the substance would break
out in Ireland, between the Irish and the English,
and that dreadful tumults and rebellion would be
there I then simply thought it must take place
immediately, but it did not until 1798. These re­
flections shew me how wrong is my judgment, and
the truth of my prophecies not coming so soon as I
expected ; and some came sooner than I ex­
pected, as the mutiny on the seas in 1797 took place
in three months after it was revealed to me, from a
fire breakingout in a chandler’s shop, that caught the
wick yarn and set the candles on fire, that run from
one to the other until they were all in a blaze and
the house would have been burnt -down if I had not
faeen warned in a dream that the house was on fire j
when I ftwoke and galled the family up, who deV
2 0 A WARNING TO THE WORLD.
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
dared that I was dreaming, or mad ; but they were
astonished to come down and find the truth ofmy
dream, and the shop in a dame, which must have
been burnt down in a quarter of an hour longer; the
beam was burning, which would have Communicated
to the staircase ; but this calamity was prevfcnted by
my being warned in a dream, which happened at one
in the morning. This took place in 1793 ; but in
1797, three months before the mutiny took place,
it was revealed to me, from the burning of the can­
dles, for as they had lighted and rail frorti one to
the other to set them in a dame ; just so would the
hearts 6f men heat one the other td set them iri a
flame to consume each other ; and this would begirt
by the men of our own landj which followed three
hionths after by the mutiny at the Nore, which was
luckily put out, like the fire. These things i pondered
deep in my heart, the manner of the shadows, when
intne sartie manner the substance followed. In 1796
I was ordered to write to the rev. Mr. Pomeroy;
he came to me at Mr. Taylor’s, when Mrs. Taylor
informed him howl had told her in 179^ of the war
and dearth, and every thing that had already taken
place. He said it was wonderful and surprising, but
wanted more clear proof for him to know if it was
from the Lord. On the 3d of June I was ordered
to put a letter in his hands, for a sign to him that
there was no infusion in my writings; that the Bishop
would die at the end of that year ; as sure as I had
seen a friend of mine in the coffin the 28th of May,
so sure would he be in his coffin at the end of the
year ; the truth followed, and he was buried on the
Saturday before Christmas day; though he was in
perfect health when the letter was put in Mr. Po-
tneroy’s hand, and was taken ill the latter end of Oc­
tober the same year, wheh his death was.expected in
November ; but I was answered he should linger on
till the end of the year, exact as it was put in Mr.
Pomeroy's hand. Now of this I was well assured the
i d 2
A WARNING TO THE WORLD. i f
Digitized by
2 8 A WARNING to t h e w o r l d .
L o r d would not permit his life to be lingered on in
that manner to deceive h is ministers, to make them
believe the sign was from the Lord if it was not; and
it was said to me at the time of his illness, as sure
as he died at the end of the year, so sure the Lord
would cut off his shepherds when he began to cut
short h is work in righteousness, if they did not laythese
things to heart, and warn theirflock ofthe approaching
dangers and the c o m in o of t h e l o r d i and the
skeleton was a warning to the shepherds, that was
found in the Bishop’s cave. Now let the shepherds
take the warning, for I am clear from the blood o f
all men.
Now I must return to Mr. Pomeroy : he asked
me what the Bishop’s death was to the nation ? And
why the Lord should give me such a simple type as
the Bishop’s death ? I said it was to convince him*
that the calling was from the L o rd, and that I
bad had many such signs set before me to strengthen
my faith, or 1 should never have believed such won­
drous things ever should come upon the earth, when
there was no appearance of them, and many things
seemed unlikely or impossible.' He then said, i f
there were prophets formerly and they were asked
how it would go with the war, they could tell, and
if I could tell him what would happen to France,
Spain, Italy, or England; or what would happen
in three, or six months, he should believe my calling
was from the Lord. The following day I was earn­
est in prayer, that if I was visited by the S p i r i t o f
the L o r d , that H e would be pleased to answer
the other enquiry, to convince h is minister that the
calling was of G o d . I was answered I should be
shewn in dreams and visions of the night, what he
enquired concerning the wars.
In the night I dreamt I was taken out of my bed,
and flew through the air like a bird, from place to
place, and from town to town. In one large town 1
thought there was a large house, and the door waft
\
Digitized by
v U L TJsDCrSf- a .*****/ fC^r-
A WARNING TO THE W 0 RL6 . “ 2 g
opened, and I flew through an amazing large room,
where numbers of chairs and large pictures were piled
up like a broker’s shop, and the house was empty of
people; another town I thought I was carried
through, where I was compelled to go down a steep
place like a large country chimney ; as I was going
down there was a large clomen jug, * that hung
against the bricks ; my guide told me to unhang it
and throw it down, I thought I did, and it seemed
to fall an amazing depth and broke in pieces with a
very loud noise; I then came down to the bottom,
and flew to another large town that was very beau­
tiful ; and I thought I went down in a room that was
under ground, where there was a great deal of wood
piled up, and in that place I went to sleep till I was
awaked with some surprise, and then I came out and
flew in the air again, and came to other cities. Then
I came out of this dream, which was a dream within-
a dream; and many other remarkable dreams I had
in the night, and in the day ; as I was prevented
rising the next day, having a Cold, and was much
fatigued in my spirits, and too sleepy to be able to get
up, for I was scarce out pf dreams for two nights arid,
one day. I shall leave the others and come to this
dream that is mentioned, and which was answered in
the following manner— “ The place thou wast car­
ried through, where was nothing but lumber, is
France ; for there is nothing but lumber there ; and
it will be desolate of most of the inhabitants, as the
house was empty. Another place thou wast carried
through was Spain, and they will revolt against their
King*'* The steep place thou wentest down, where
the pitcher hung that thou wast to throw down, is
the fall*of many Nations. The place where thou -
deepest was Italy; and they will sleep till the
French come upon them to conquer them, and the
Italians will be forced to surrender, to them ; for as
• Ofcoarse earthen ware, a Devonshire phrase.
4 Tiii*is not yet, and France has only been desolated in part.
Digitized by Google
there was much wood there, so will the fire burtl
great in Italy, and they will be forced to surrender
to the French by the six months he mentioned. As
to England, they will seek for peace, but in vain ;
they have surfounded themselves with such tumults
of war, that the wise men with all their wisdom
would not be able to make a peace, and lafgc sum*
of money will be demanded at the end of the year.
■— This, with many more wonderful Prophecies, I put
in the hand of Mr. Pomeroy in January 1797» and
simply thought,,all these must be fulfilled in'that
year; before it was explained to me, that it alluded
to the ending of the wars, as he enquired concer­
ning the wars— but nothing was to be fulfilled in that 1
year, but to Italy, and the continuation of the war
to England, with the expences— -In those six mouthy
Italy was conquered by the French, and wa& forced
to surrender ; but soon after it was put in the News
Papers there was a peace, and it would be concluded
within a fortnight; ahd great rejoicing was made in
Exeter. This confused my mind and heart, though
I wished for peace, yet I was jealous by what Spirit
I was led, as truth and error seemed blended together*
if there was a Peace ; for all the past had come true,
and by what Spirit I knew not, if it was not from the
Lord; and if'it was the Lord, I judged all must be
true.. And this made me wish for death, that I might
be in the invisible world to know what Spirits there
were invisible that did attend us. It Is Fruitless to
pen the feelings of my heart, through jealousy; but
I was answered, “ O ! thou of little faith, wherefore
dost thou doubt ?” After a cortfuSidn of mind for a few
days, I went into Exeter on a Friday, and met my
brother’s son, who told me his brother Johiyvas ill,.
X T that is before mentioned, who was ill in 1^9 4 * 1 thefi
was answered, he would die; this I went and told
Mrs. Taylor, who said, then your prophecies will come
true concerning'him. The Thursday night before
his death, the physicians said he would recover, but
3 0 A WARNING TO THE WORLD.
Digitized by
'yGoogle
pn the Saturday morning he died. I then was answer-,
ed*£t as wrong as the physician’s judgment was con­
cerning thy kinsman, 60 wrong are the wise men
Concerning the peace.” This I read to my friends, and
said I could not believe there would be a peace until
1 saw i t ; within a month the war continued ;and the
harvest came perfectly like the letter I was ordered
to send to the rev. Mr. Giles, at Exeter; so that the .
pvents of that year came perfect as foretold. I then
went to M r. Pomeroy, at the end' of the year, and
asked him if he thought these truths came from the
Devil r He said, do not mention the Devil, for there
is not a word in your writings likely to come from
him ; but said, how do I know but you have this
knowledge from yourself? I said, I knew no more
from inyself than his table what the Lord
would do upon the earth. He- said there was
a bishop, who had written a hundred years be­
fore the Revolution took place in France, of the
date it would begin, and the very year the king
of France was beheaded; but he did not say he
wrote by prophecies. I answered, I knew not what
a bishop might know by learning ; but I knew no­
thing by learning. Mr, Pomeroy- made answer,
“ Nor he neither for no man'upon earth could
tell what the l*>rd would do upon the earth, unless
he was pleased to reveal it to him ; and then asked
why I did not publish. I said I was ordered not to
publish at present, without the ministers would prove
the calling was of God ; but I was ordered to put
letters in their hands, of the events of years to come,
that they might, be judges of the truth. After this
conversation, I was ordered to go to Bristol, as the
ministers of Exeter had refused to pass their judg­
ment,, and th^n I was answered, the Lord would
send worse harvests than that of 17D7, and bring in
it greater dearth upon the land, if unbelief abounded
in the clergy. If they could judge all this know-,
ledge came from a simple woman, a sign should be
J
L WARNING TO THE WORLD. 3 t
Digitized by
set for the harvests. This I put in Mr. Woolland’s
hand before I went to Bristol; and I thought the
harvest would follow that year, and so I told my
friends; but after I cariie to Bristol, and was jealous
to see the harvest good, (this was in 1798), as I
really expected it that year; but I was answered,
there had been no mockery nor unbelief to bring it
on that year; for the truth of 1797, had silenced the
tongues of those that did not believe, and encreased
the faith of believers ; so that the bad harvest could
not-then follow; but if unbelief did abound, the
threatening^ putin Woolland’s hand in 1798, should
' be fulfilled in 1799, wherein the grain I’ll make
like men : that meaneth, if men were so soft to be­
lieve all this knowledge came from a woman’s head
without the Lord’s revealing it to her ; he would
send the rain to make the grain as soft as men. And
if unbelief did still abound, by sun and rain he
would hurt the grain. This I did not understand
mearit both harvests till afterwards. This of the
harvests I sent home to Mrs. Taylor, in a much
dearer manner than is here mentioned, in a letter
dated August 23d, 1798, particularly saying that
the harvest should begin in 1799- On the Christ­
mas, 1798, I came from Bristol t6 Exeter; and in
the March following, 179 9,1 was ordered to send a
copy of this very letter of the 23d of August, to the
rev. Archdeacon Moore, and have another copied o ff
the same, to send to the rev. Mr. Pomeroy ; and
the M ay following I was ordered to write to the
Bishop, tlve Chancellor, the Archdeacon, the rev.
Mr.Pomeroy,and the rev. Mr. Tucker. This greatly
provoked all the clergy to anger ; the Archdeacon
returned my letter;' the Chancellor said that
he had burnt it, and if I sent-any more he would
return them back by the post. This was in M ay
1799. I then was answered, their mockery and un­
beliefshould bring on the harvests that were threat­
ened in Archdeacon Moore’s hand, which was sent
A WARRING TO THE WORLD.
Digitized by G o o g l e
fitW
ii Bristol to Mrs. Taylor, in 1798, and sttnt to
him in March 1799; and as ha had turned back
the letter, so would the Lord turh back their prayers
in the time of harvest; and as the Chancellor had
burnt the letter, so the following year should be
burnt up by heat. Then it was explained to me,
that both harvests were foretold in the year 1798.
When the harvest came in 1799, the first week we
had fine weather, and every appearance of a good
harvest. T he Sunday 1 went to St. Peter’s, and
heard the Rev. Mr. Carrington say in his sermon,
that we should soon have peace and plenty. He
told what a glorious harvest there was before us *.
I then was answered,— the harvest would be like my
father’s blossom, that appeared beautiful in M ay,
but the blight came and destroyed great paft of it ;
and so would the floods cOme upon the harvest. The
Tuesday following, the rain came ; and it is known
to the public at large how it Continued: prayers
were publicly put up in Exeter, by all classes of
people, that the Lord would stop the rain; but
1wasanswered,— as men had refusedto hear the Words
ofthe Lord, so he would refuse to heir their prayers;
andas my letters were turned back unanswered, so
should their prayers be unanswered likewise ; and so
they were till the harvest was spoiled. I then was
answered,— as the other letter was burnt, so the fol­
lowing harvest should be burnt up. These letters “
were then publicly made known in town and coun­
try. And when the harvest came in the 1800, they
began to cry out, it was a good harvest, and drop­
ped the price of corn a week before harvest, and
said it was the finest harvest that ever was known ;
and some said Wheat would be for six shillings a
bushel, and barley for three : and many began to
* The Rev. Basil Wood, at Lisson Green, made a loti? prayer be*
i n his sermon, and returned thanks to the Almighty for the hies*
stagsofagloriousharvest that was began; when after this Sunday the
nia fell, and continued to the end of theyear \ andthe harvest was
spoiledall ever thekingdom.
B
▲ WARNING TO TM i WoftLD. 33
Digitized by Google
/
curse me $and said, where were the prophecies new?
I had prophesied of a bad harvest, but there never
was a better; and I ought to be burnt. These speeches
quite astonished me, as many came from the farmers,
. that I thought would not boast so much, if they
had not known the crops to be good, as it was but a
week before they began to reap. I then began to
ponder deep of the past; from wnat Spirit every truth
could come, if not from the Lord ? And if the
harvest was good, I was assured it was not of G od,
as he had so strongly affirmed the heat of his anger
should hurt the harvest, as the Chancellor’s anger
burnt my letter ; and if the harvest was good, I was
determined to burn the whole ofmy writings ; though
all the past had come true, yet if that harvest was
good, I could not judge they were from the Lord.
1 then was answered :
3 4 ' A WARNING TO THE WORLD.
All have boasted too soon,
But when they see their harvest clear*
Their sun will cloud ere noon.
Because the price will make men wise,
Much dearer than the last;
If not the wheat, they’ll find it great
In all things else is cast
So some will mourn, and othersturn,
And prove the harvest good;
Then why is the burden so laid on,
(Ah ! tremble at th^ sword),
That will begin the following spring*
, If men do not prevent;
By shewing clear how all is here,
And how it all is sent.
This communication was given to me the 10th o f
August, in answer to the boasting of men, which
was copied off by some of my friends. Before one
month Was past in the harvest, the farmers began to
change their words,<and some said they had not two
pecks an acre; and there was not com enough in the
land to last till Lady Day. The spring following
the tumult rose all through Devonshire; and the
consequences would have been fatal, if the farmers
Digitized by Google
had not shewn and proved to them there was not
com in the land; and the gentlemen subscribing so
much money to buy corn from abroad. But these
two harvests are well known, so I need not enlarge.
As 60on as the harvest was over in 1800, the poor
began to complain what martyrs they had been, and
soldall they could part with to go through the dearth
of 1799 * hut now they said there was another year
come, in which they should be starved to death; and
many, I was told, dropped down dead in the streets
for want. This wounded me to the heart; and I
thought with myself, why should the Lord afflict
the innocent with the guilty } W hy should a whole
nation suffer, because o f the unbelief of a few clergy',
that did not feel the distresses of the harvest ? And
I was earnest in prayer, that the Lord would look
down in mercy upon the poor; but I was answered :
Thou knowest not what man is. It is not for their
unbeliefonly, but the unbelief of the whole nation ;
and were thy writings abroad in the world, thou
wouldest find the same unbelief in the poor thou
hast in the rich %and the same unbelief in man­
kind thou hast found in them. Therefore I sent
thee to shepherds after their own hearts. But then1
I was answered, the Lord would look in pity upon
the poor; and set the signs for blessings, and not
forjudgments. There should be three years of good
harvests; and if the ministers I had written to would
not come forward to search out the truth, the Lord
had other ministers that would come forward ; and
for their sakes the harvests should come; which is
printed in my first book, p. 18, where the harvests
are mentioned. But if unbelief abounded in the
three years the Lord set the signs for blessings, he
would begin in the fourth year of the century* to
set the signs for judgments; and judgments should
follow, till the nations were convinced of the visita-
tatipn of the L ord, and longing for C h r is t 's
b 2
A WASKING TO THE WORLDS 35
Digitized by G o o g l e
PEACEABLE KINGDOM— AND THEN FBACB ABO'
plen ty WILL PLQW IN OUE LAND.
After I had published to the world in the begin­
ning of 1801, ini the M ay following I received a,
l letter from the Rev. Stanhope Bruce, I then was
answered,-— “ now are coming the ministers,whom th e
Lord hath cho$ enw h ich alludes to the dream of the
feathered fowls, in my third book, which came from
the press the 1Qth of M ay ; and his letter came the
22d. It then was answered, as I dreamt the birds were
changed, so were the men changed from the minis­
ters I had been writing to ; and as the birds were uiv*
known, so were the men unknown; as they were
shewn me as feathered fowls, so I should know them
by their pens, that came from feathered fowls; and
tl^e men that would write to me/ were the men the
Lord had chosen to search out my writings, and to
be my judges. I then was told how strong their faith
would be ;
They will not fear to tell them here
The calling isfrom Heaven;
And they'll be bold to challenge here,
jf crp the challenge’sgiven.
This, and much more was said of the men that
they would write, and of the strength of their faith
that would follow; when I had received a letter
from no one but the Rev. Stanhope Bruce, which
was on the 22d of M a y; and this communication
was unknqwn to them : I only read it to Mrs. Taylor
and a few of my Exeter friends. Now let the serious
readers weigh all these thipgs together, and see if
they can judge, I have built my faith on ft sandy
foundation. I may say unto them that pity my being
put of my head, as our Saviour said to the people o f
Jerj^alem : “ Daughters of Jerusalem weep for your­
selves, and not for me.”
And here I shall give you the answer that
was given t° me, to the ponderings of my
heart, of religion proving my ruin ; as many great
professors of religion and preachers of the Gos-
36 A WASHING TO TBS WGtLD.
Digitized by G o o g l e
pel had said all my writings might be true, and yet
cotpe from the Devil, as an angel of light. I then '
pondered in my own heart, how 1 had made
it the study of my life, from my youth up to this
day, to walk in the fear of the Lord : if there
was a possibility of my being deceived, religion
would prove my ruin; as I thought I must be the
innocent cause of deceiving many worthy and good
people; for they believed the Spirit to be of God, as
well as m yself; and if I w%s deceived, they must
also : which I thought would bring me with a broken
heart to the grave. T o these ponderings of my heart
I was answered :
“ Thou comest far short to be able to love my
creatures more than m e ; but men have taken in
question the knowledge of their G o d , the truth of
their Bibles, and judged themselves more upright
than their G od ; for, as thou sayest in thy heart, thou
couldest not bear thy feelings, if thou art the inno-
cent cause of deceiving thy friends : and yet thou
art jealous of the Lord’s deceiving thee; then thou
must believe there is a better spirit, heart, and mind
in thyself, than there is in thy Creator: but thou
answerest, that is not thy judgment; it is men’s de­
nying the truth ofthe Bible that makes thee jealous;
and I now answer, it is men’s jealousy of the truth
of their Bibles, that makes them all jealous; for if
men judged their Bibles t r u e , they would be jea­
lous for themselves, and not for thee: that meaneth,
they would be jealous, fearing they were deceiving
themselves, and their religion prove their ruin, be­
cause they build their religion on the teaching ofmen,
and not on the teaching of m y s p i r i t . Por uow
I tell thee, they cover with a covering, but not of
m y s p i r i t ; and their fear towards m e is by the
teaching of men. Now let all men grow asjealous
for themselves as thou hast been for thyself; and
judge for themselves, whether they would deal more
faithfully with their friends than I the L ord will deal
A WASKING TO TBS WORLD. 37
Digitized by Google
with mine; for if they, being in evil, know how to
give good gifts to their children, how much more,
shalllthe L ord of h e a v e n a n d e a r t h , give good
gifts to them that ask. But thou sayest in thy heart,
that many profess to be friends to m e , that are per­
secuting m y s p i r i t in thee, under a mistaken no­
tion. To this, I answer, let thy jealousy be their
jealousy, lest religion proves their ruin; and let
this jealousy alarm the shepherds. “ Am I deceiv-
*
*
' ing my flock by a wrong judgment ? Hath an
“ evil spirit the power over me to lead my judgment
“ astray ? If so;, how fatal must my end be, when I '
“ reflect how many thousands I have led into errors b y
“ mocking the Coming of the L ord J esus C h r i s t ,
“ setting at nought all h is threatenings and warn-
“ ings, turning.'the Bible upside down ; deceiving the
“ people th’at support me.”— The day shall come
upon them unawares.— So now let this jealousy
arise in all their hearts, lest their religion proves
their ruin ; for it was I that worked that jealousy in
thy heart, to warn the nation at large thereby. So
now let men grow jealous for themselves, lest their
self-confidence proves their ruin, as the self-confi­
dence ofthe Jews proved theirs.—
Far now to all l loud shall call:
And from thy heart appear.
This jealousy must be in all.
And all begin to tear,
Onvwhat foundation they have built
, To make their tower so strong,
Lest in the end they all shall sink,
’
When boisterous storms com" on.
Upon the sand if now they stand,
Their standing sure mifst tall.
When I do visit every lartd,
And come to conquer all.
Then great you'll see the fall will be.
As 1did warn before;
And now let all men answer me,
My Gospel must appear.
And know, the fall I told you all,
It would be great to man ;
When by that sermon* I prove the call,
And shew the end must come;
# Our Saviour's Sermon upon the Mount 7 th chap. Matt
38 A WARNING TO THE WORLD.
Digitized by Google
A mote was in theirbrother's eye*
1 said that they would see*
But not th?ir beam for to espy;
Such hypocrites would be.
Now I see clear they do appear*
And hypocrites become;
My Gospel they profess to hear*
And build their faith thereon;
But on the sand their faith must stand*
That do my Gospel hear,
But never mark my strict command,
And bow 1 should appear.
So now let all men silent stand*
For 1 shall answerhere:
Religion will your ruin be*
Ifyou do not discern
The way the words were spoke by me,
How 1 again should come*.
That in the clouds1should appear*
With all the heavenly train;
As 1ascended from their sight,
1 should return to men.
If in like manner now 1 come*
The likeness all must see:
I first arose to visit them
That had believed in me;
And then in glory did ascend*
And sent my angels near,
To warn my brethren and iny friends*
The way I should appear;
And in like manner come again^_»
Then now the likeness see:
I first must come to visit men*
As 1 have said to thee;
And every likeness to appear,
Thewoman saw me firft;
And now the end to nil draws near:
The woman so doth burst,
To prove I'm come again to man*
In Spirit to appear;
So if my Bible you do discern*
You see all mysteries dear.
Then let your pondering thoughts go deep*
As she hath now begun;
And then I say like her you'd weep, *
Like my disciples come:
Strange things are by the woman told*
That 1do now appear,
My Bibleall for to unfold,
Your eyes are holden here:
*
*We cannot see the mystery,
“ And yet our hearts do burn;
€i The Scriptures plain we now may see*
*
*How he again must come."
• Acts i. Luke xxiL
Ar WARNING t o , t h e w o r l d .
Digitized by
For some within do now begin'
In love to burn for ME;
And Satan's malice plain is sefen, .
Then now the likeness see:
As at the first the end doth burst,
When l did first appear:
They brib’d the keepers fd^tojest* flXfll 12
“ I was not risen there;
11 B u t m y disciples had contriv'd
“ To take me then a w a y ^
And now they say men have cenniv*d-^
The likeness is this day:
They say that ntty disciples now
Have forg’d the thing that’s wrong;
And ’tis by fables, they avow,
That every truth is come.
* So like the nrst the end doth burst,
And so do all appear;
And in like manner at the last,
Will eveiy eye seeclear,
When my disciples all arewarn’d,
As they were warn'd at first:
They’ll seemy gloiy to appear,
And in the clouds to burst
“ So now see plain, ye sons ofmen,
What likeness doth appear;
For as the angels came to men,
The visions you see here;
Then now is come the shadows strong.
The substance will abound,
And all shall know the end's near come,
Wherein I shall be found,
In glory bright before your sight,
1 tell you, in the air;
For every truth I’ll bring to light,
And prove the end 19near.
So now let men, 1say, begin
To ponder deej^ like thee,
Then their religion they will fear
Their ruin it will be,
If they go on to mock these men,
That now believe my word.
Self-confidence that is in man,
Always reject their Lord,
And blind their eyes, let meft growwise :
The Jews were soof old : '
They said my followers did disguise,
The truth was never told:
They said by them, and now the same,
Mankind do strung appear;
They want to blind the eyes of men.
And provethe truth’s not clear.
So now land back your every thought,
And your religion see:
<40 A WARNING T d T H t VrdttLtf*
Digitized by Google
A WARKISTO * 0 Tttfc WdRLIH
how likAthe Jews you all domock*
The Likeness dothagree.
Formine do fear, I tali youheie,
As my friends did fearat first;
Because all mysteries were not clear,
Their jealousy did hurst;
And now the same I see m man.
What jealousyapffcars,
When they ail mysteries can't discern*
Like my disciples here.
The samein man they now ate code*
As mine were then of aid;
So in the end, mark what is penn’d*
The mysteriesrU Unfold:
The likenesssee doth nowagree*
And so the end will come:
In perfect manneraHwill be,
When I return again.
The shadow’s come, it must bekttoM,
And every likeness clear;
And so thesubstancewillgo on*
Till I to all appear:
As m the clouds! did ascend*
Unto my throne above;
So to this earth I new shall bett&
To those that do me love;
To have me come and dwell With thanfr
To them 1 shall appear;
And spmy angels come towarn*
My Coming now is near:
And near ’twill he* you ail wfil/soe*
Though you mayjudge it long,
Whose hearts are wishingbo# for me,
To have my Kingdom come:
But if it comes to manunknown,
Your ruin it will he;
The foolish virgins roust be known.
Ne'er enter’d in with n e
I knew them not was then their lofc
And so their lot wiQ come;
MyGospel men have quite forget*
The way I warned them:
That they my Coming mustexpect.
In triumph to appear:
These Parables yc* all neglect,
And ne’er discern them here: _ ^
That on this Earth must all come forth* ’*9 2 ^ '
In Heaven *tcan never be:
No foolishvirgins can be there,
in trinmph to reign with me.
No; all above do see my Love;
For none comes there too late;
Bet here belowmankind will know
Thousands will meet this fate:
4 1
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
42 A WARNING TCT T^E WOKMV
I know you not, the door is shut;
You never wish’d me near,
Nor for my Coming did expect.
To see the truthappear.
Then now see plain, ye sonsof merf*
What must toall appear:
That TRUE religion you must gain*
And for your L ord prepare.
So ponderoff as shebegan,
Alarm yourjealousy;
If on the sand your faith doth stands
Your ruin it will be;
And you that lead, as she has said.
Your hearers all astray,
I ask you, on your dying beds.
How will your conscience lay ?
Against my Spirit you appear>
Against my Bible too;
Against my Gospel every wher^-
Bring all before your view.
Then you will see more deep tlian she*.
*Tis you have cause to mourn,
As your religion so taught ye,
My Bible all to,turn
A different wa(y, I now do say,
As did the Jews of oleh
Religion did them all betray.
In confidence, and bold
In their professionthey all stood,
A change they would not see;
And now you think yourselves as good^
And boldly stand like they,
In your own confidence the same,
To make my friends to fear*
Put if you know a Christian's name.
You all must answerhere:
Self-confidencewas not in them;
They trac'd my footsteps deep,
Ere they began mr to condemn,
They follow’d every light;
That did appear for to seeclear
The patn wherein they trod;
And ifonettack of mine was near.
They then pursued their God,
His tracks to find: for likt the wind;
My voice is now to man;
And ^heythat can my footsteps find,
They will the whole discern.
Here I have shewed thee that the last error J*
worse than the first; if the day come upon them un­
aware, their self-confidence is more fatal to their
ruin, than it was possible for thine; if a wrong Spi­
rit could have deceived thee, no guilt could fall on
Digitized by G o o g l e
4 3
A ly head, nor the head of believers, as all have '
come to thee, as it is spoken in my Gospel; and the
truth hath followed ; then what hast thou, or believ­
ers, to fear ? The greatest fear is for the unbelief
o f mankind, lest their boasted wisdom, like the Jew**
o f old, bringeth on their destruction: For as the
Jews were cast out from Jerusalem for their unbelief,
«o will all be cut off, when 1 come to bring in my
Kingdom-of Peace, that are not desirous for i t : for
I must be the desire of every nation that i come to
possess; and none that standeth out through unbe­
lief will then be welcomed in by me. But know,
at my Coming, I shah come as the purifier of silver,
and my anger will be heated because of the coldness-
o f men’s hearts, that do not desire my Coming; and
1shall take out of my Kingdom all that offend and
do wickedly. Now if the shepherds blind the eyes
o f their hearers, that such Scriptures will never' be -js /- /-ifjt
fulfilled, or that they are not nigh at hand; and
their flocks should perish through their neglect,
wheo I come to gather my wheat into the garner,
and burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire,
how much more fatal must their religion prove their
rain, than it were possible for thy religion to prove
thy ruin, if it were possible for thee to be deceived ?
But I now tell thee, that is impossible to b e : Thou
canst not be deceived in whom thou hast trusted ;
because thou canst not believe there is a faithless
God ; that will permit all these clear truths to de­
ceive thee, and those that are longing formy Coming:
as thy faith is, so it shall happen unto thee. And
now I shall come to the Gentiles, that look for Re­
demption in and through my dying Blood, which is ««.«//
seen but in fart, received but in fart, known but in
fa r t; because they have their own natures to war
with; the temptations of the Devil to war with: they
have the world to war with, whose hearts are at en­
mity against God; so that their fulness cannot come,
till these things are all removed. . For what doth
A. WARNING TO THE WOBLS:
Digitized by
let, will let till it be taken out of the w ay; but when
1 come to redeem them, from the Fall, and bring in
my Kingdom of Peace, then will the fulness of their
joy appear. But was no man to believe it, or no
,«*man to expect it, no fulness to the Gentiles could
ever come. But as it. is said in my Gospel, spoken
by my Apostle, the fulness of the Gentiles wiU come ;
it is not all the. powers of earth and hell can prevent:
it. . Believers are already begun, and the number
will encrease, till their joy he made fu ll; and they
shall find that Saviour, they now rely on for their
- spiritual Salvation, will bring in their full. Redemp­
tion, to be redeemed from the powers of death, hell,
' and sin. Then will the fulness of their joy be com?*
pleted, and the calling in of the Jews will be glorious}
who .will return like Jacob's sons, saying, “ we are
verily guilty-concerning our brother;” and they will
say they are guilty concerning their Saviour. But
they must see the fulfilment of my Gospel by the
Gentiles, before the Jews will be convinced.”
, The following communication is in answer toa gen­
tleman, who said he did not think, if this calling wa$
from the Lord, it was so essential to Salvation, as the
Coming of Christ in the B ody; therefore the unbelief
could not be so destructive as the unbelief of the
Jews, if the calling was of God. When I had writ­
ten his words, I was ordered to open my Bible : it
was in the 12th chapter of Daniel, which I was order­
ed to mark through.-— The 2dof Daniel, 44th verse :
“ And in the days of these kings, shall the God o f
. Heaven set up a Kingdom, which shall never be de-
stroyed.”— The 8th ofM ark, 21st verse: “ And Jesus
said unto them, how is it that ye dondtunderfland.” —
The 7th of Matt. 20th verse: “ And every one that
heareth these sayings of mine,&c.” — Job 40th chap.
2d verse: “ Shall he that contendeth, &c.” — 42d Job*
3d verse : “ W ho is he that hideth council, &c.” —
1st Kings, 8th chap. 27th verse : “ But will God in­
deed dwell on the earth, &c.’*
4 4 i WA8K1X6 TO THE WOBLB.
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
“ Now I shall answer thee: He hath asked,and thou
bast answered, these things are too wonderful for you.
As thou hast opened to the Law and the Gospel, so
mast they both be joined together, for the Law will
not do without the Gospel, nor the Gospel without
the Law. ButI will not blame his enquiry; he spoke
wisely to ask— If the unbelief of the latter was as
destructive as that of the'former, supposing they are
both from the Lord ?
First, the Saviour coming in the Flesh to die for
man; second, his coming in the Spirit, as a Redeemer
to redeem man from all the powers of death, hell,
and sin ; and to bring him into newness of life with
his God. I shall now answer thee from the last
chapter thouopenest to : “ W ill God indeed dwell on
the earth ?” And this was his enquiry— W ill God
dwell with man in the Spirit upon the earth ? Then
the unbelief of the latter is more destructive than
the former, as they deny the very things for which
I died, which was rejected by man through unbe-
• lief; then the very things I died for must be re­
jected by the Gentiles; and they make no mere
merit o f my Death and Suffering, than the Jews did,
if they judge I come to destroy all the Laws of God
and the prophets, and only taught man to worship
my dying Blood alone, without respect to all my
wards, which were to bring them to the Laws of God.
I come not to destroy the Laws of God, and the Pro­
phets, but to fulfil them. Then let men mark my
words lest they build their faith upon the sand: and
great you will see the fall of this nation, because of
their unbelief.
Now I shall come to Solomon. David was refused
to build a house unto my Name; but Solomon was
commanded to do it : but know, Solomon asked for
Wisdom, and by his Wisdom he built a house unto
,me,‘ that was a house built -with hands. Now if you
will have the L o u d for your G o d , to dwell with you
here upon earth, ye must all seek afterWisdom, that
A WABNIH0 TO THE WOBLD. 4 5
Digitized by U o o Q l e
«
your own hearts may be fit temples for me to dw ell
amongst yo u : for if the house of clay, built in honour
to my Name, was refused to be built by David, m y
servant, whose throne I said I would establish ; b u t
the house should be built by Solomon his son in h o ­
nour to my Name; know, that Solomon sought after
Wisdom, and so must every man seek after the W is ­
dom that cometh clown from above, if they will m ake
their hearts fit temples for me to dwell, and to have
my Spirit take up its abode with man. Therefore,
Solomon warned men to search after Wisdom as fo r
pure gold ; and after my Wisdom they must seek, i f
| they will have my Spirit to come down upon earth
to dwell among men. For, as Solomon said, the
Heaven of Heavens could not contain m b , then the
Heaven of Heavens cannot contain my Wisdom, nor
my Decrees for the sons of men. It shall come down
and dwell with them that now seek after the Wisdom
of their God, and those people whose hearts are
right with me, though their prayers are not answered
to their petition for present blessings; yet, they shall
be answered for greater blessings, as Abraham wag
answered for Ishmael, that in Isaac all the families
of the earth should be blessed; and the promise was
made through faith, that now must rest upon this
heads o f the faithful; so let faith be added to their
prayers, and a double blessing shall rest upon them,
greater than they asked,or thought themselves worthy
to receive, that my Spirit should come down and
dwell with men : for thou hast uttered *, and he has
uttered things loo wonderful for yo u %things that
ye understood not. But where is the man that con­
tends with his Maker, that can instruct him, how
my Bible shall be fhlfilled ? for I now tell thee, the |
Law and the Gospel must die mixed together: for
the Law will not do without the Gospel, nor the
Gospel without the Law.^Tim. 2d chap.verse 6.Who
9 Joanna bad given prophecies she did not understand\ andhehad
asked what he knew not
4 6 A WARNING TO THE WORLD.
Digitized by Google
/
▲ WASHING t o t h e WORLD. A^
gave himself a RanSotn for all to be testified in due
time.Rom. iv. 14. For if they that are of the Law are
made heirs, Faithismade void, and the Promise made
of so effect; for the Promise to Abraham's seed was
notthrough the Law, but through Faith. R om .ix. 28.
Because a short work will the Lord make upon the
earth. 11th Rom. As concerning the Gospel, they
are enemies for your sake ; but as touching election,
they are beloved for the Father’s sake. Now I shall
Answer thee: If the Jews were enemies to the Gospel, »
for the calling in of the Gentiles, and through their
blindness to seek my Blood to be shed for the Salva­
tion of men, and give myself a Ransom for all to be
testified in due time ; then know, the dtse time was
not then come, as it was not made known how the
Ransom o f a ll men should come; but in due time it
must be made known, that through election they
arc beloved for the Father’s sake; because they
worship the Father and rely on his Promises made by
his prophets : then, if they keep to the Law, and are
looking for a Messiah to come, that shall be their
Deliverer; and you Gentiles believe that he is come,
but that he w ill not be a Deliverer either to you or to
them; and throw all the Laws of God and the Pro­
phets aside, forgetting all the words I left on record,
and looking to no fulfilment of my Gospel, as .the
Jews do of the Law ; then your belief is not of faith,
that I gave my life a Ransom for a l l to reconcile the
world unto God, for which it is written my Blood was
Sled. Now compare your faith together, then you
will find ye have seen but in part, ye have believed
but in part, and understood buj in part; neither
hare ye discerned the height or depth of the un­
searchable wisdom and goodness of God in Christ
Jesus, nor what i6 to be testified in due tim e; for
know, what I said of Daniel, when they see
biswords fulfilled, then follows on my Parables to
die end. Now I shall explain the meaning of tho
words of Daniel/chapter ii. verse 44— “ In the days
A
Digitized by Google
/su M ry iiin j a M a n J
48 ' k WARXlHO TO THB WORLD.
z s
of these kings shall the God of Heaven set op B
Kingdom that shall not be destroyed but mark the
dream through, how all was broken in pieces, and
how they were mixed together that could not join to­
gether. Now mark the French nation, how they are
mixed together but cannot join together, no more
' than iron and clay; the one is strong, the other weak.
Now remember what I told thee in years past, of the
French nation: if they set up another king, or the
likeness of a king in France, his destruction would
be sought like the former; and this destruction
Bonaparte will find, if he remains long in that
place; for if he is not slain by the sword of war, he
will die by it in that land. For ho more than clay
and iron can mix together, no more can they m ix
and join with a king ; and this hath appeared with
the Dotch. Then now see how the toes and feet are
one part iron and another part clay, that cannot join
together, as the one is strong, the other weak. Now
look abroad and see the divisions of nations, how they
stand like iron and clay; then know, they cannot-
join long together; for these nations must be broken
in pieces; and the kingdom of God must be set up,
that is cut out without the hands of men. Here I
have shewed thee what will' shortly take place
in distant nations; for there is. coming a time
of trouble over the whole earth, such as never
was since there was a nation, kindred, or people.
But 1 know the thoughts of thy heart; **that it
must have been worse when the world was drowned.*
I teH thee no: they were too soon cut off.to see all
the troubles men w ill new sea for their troubles did
not long appear in this world; for they could not see
the troubles that will now be seen over the whole
earth; for I now tell thee, it will come to all lands like
the death of thy kinsman: unuttered groans to bring
them lo w : and when they see their judgments and
troubles; then will men run to and fro, from nation
to nation, from sea to sea, from shore to shore; and
Digitized by Google
iapwledge shell be encreascd, because mat will that
fte the truth of my Sibley that is now as a book •
sealedu p from matt} for it is not the book itself that
n seated by Daniel till the end; but the meaning o f
it is sealed up to the end; for the sealed book that
was to be sealed up whose names where to be found
written therein, is now begun to he sealed, which
shall stand sealed to the end. F o ri now tell theq,
the end is, when I come in power la claim the King-
therefore it is written, many that
W
eep m tfic earth shall awake, -some to everlasting
life, and some to everlasting contempt.. Now he
that bath ears to hear, let him hear; and he that hath
a heart to understand, let him understand, that many
do not mean the whole race of mankind, to glace
itto the final day of judgment, when l come to
make an end of all things. I tell thee n o : it alludes
tour coM t&e to bring in \nr kin ad o m of y e a c k
here upoR-eartb; therefore I have already told thee,
sad I now tell thee again, those whose names are
famd written in the book, that are longing for my
K$gd$ne to come, and have subscribed with their
hMds unto the Loan, but who die before the rime,
trill then awjfke out of *the dust, and appear liTm^
flSj& on that, great day, when l come to destroy
llljbfr power of,the D evil; and then the wicked that
hare been warned, andwho despised nayComing, and
ISMt nought all my council, will then awake to their
dwnestid confusion, that now curse the Woman for
lBitgfcDg it on Satan's head for his destruction, by
fthpiog the Promise that was made in the Fall. And
far foe is come to claim th: Promise, and lay her
blame on Satan, as Man did on m e; saying, if I bear.
the one, justice now demands for Satan to bear
tor pfoer. By this just sentence Satan blinds the
Ml of men to shame the woman for so doing ; but
faOt foey will awake to their own shame and con*
feuon. For l hare already told thee, as the. graves
Spued and many dead bodies appeared at my Death,
StoOl'.' * ; G • • '
*
.4 W AS#!** TO TUT WOOLS. *0
Google
Digitized by
5 0 A WARNING TO THB WORLft.
7
«o they would appear at my Coming, in might, flEN
jesty, and power: when I come to rend the veil o f
Satan’s temple asunder, that he hath set yp in the
hearts of men, but then they will be rended asunder,
and then will -those whose names are written in
the book for me to reign over all and claim the King­
dom for my own, awake ,to their endlessjoy and hap­
piness, to see the .Glory of my Reign, while those that
mocked and despised it will awake to their shame and
confusion to go with their master they stood up for,
whose kingdom they wished to have remained : and
with him .they must remain till the final day o f
judgment; but the righteous will shine as the sun in
the firmament.
•Now I shall come to those who stood by the
river; the one on the one side of the bank, the
_ other on- the other side of the bank. “ And
XU Darnell heard the man that was clothed in linen, which
was upon the waters of the river, when he held
up his right hand and his left hand unto Heaven,
and sware by him that liveth .for ever, that it shall
be for a time, times, and an jja lf; and when he shall
have accomplished to scatter the power of the holy
people, all these things shall be finished.”'*
—Now I
shall tell thee the; meaning of the River and the Bank,
that one stopd on the one side, and the other stood
on the other : the River is my Word that is fixed,
and my Promise which I have made, that shall now
run, as a river of joy and peace to all true believers.
The Bank is the bounds that is fixed for men and
'devils; for all men shall know and see Satan’s bounds
are now fixed, as the book is sealed up for the end ;
and so it shall come' to men and devils; for I will
now lift them up on my right hand, and on my left ;
the works of my hands that I created in man shall
now be lifted up. The Jews that stand on one side
o f the bank, that are looking for the fulfilment bf
the Law of God, and the Promises made to the Pro­
phets ; and the Gentiles that stand on the other fide
o f the bank, looking for the fulfilment of the Gospel
Digitized by Google
▲ WARNING TO T I B WORLD.* 51
» ,
ad the Coining of their L o r d . And now they shall
both be lifted up, and come into one current stream
together; and their peace shall flow as a river, and
theirjoy as a mighty stream ; for the Power of the-
Holjr People shall be accomplished, to be strong iu
the Lord, and in the power of bis might; and some
will be scattered in distant nations to awaken dnd
convince them, and call them to the knowledge of
the Bible, that all may come to the knowledge of
the Lord, and be wishing for the k i n g d o m ofi
Ch r is t , when I have made them sick with smiting,
them, and made them desolate because of their sins..
Then will the living lay it to heart and return to give
Glo r y to G o d ; for then cometh the end, perfect
like the book that is sealed-up ; therefore I told thee1
Daniel's words were closed till the time of die end..
Then all men must know, they must be unclosed
and be made known, and proved that they were,
sealed up until the Time of the end. And what the
end shall be, now. compare Daniel’s visions with
the visions of St. John in the Revelations, and see
how they stand together, to be revealed and fulfilled
in his appointed time.— Rev. ch. 2 1 . And I John saw
theholy city, the new Jerusalem, coming down from
Godout of Heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for
herhusband.— 1amAlpha and Omega,the beginning
andthe end:— J will give him that is athirst of the
fountain of the water of life. Rev. ch. 22.— And he
shewed me a pure river of water of life, clear as crys-
tal, proceeding out of the throne of God and the
Lamb : and there was a tree of life bearing twelve
manner of fruits, which was for the healing of the
nations, and there shall be no more curse :— The
Spirit and the. Bride say come, and let him that is
athirst come, and whomsoever will let him take of
'the water of fife freely.
o 2
Digitized by Google
51 A'^JtXIVlNV ^TO TflC WORID*
[THE ElRST CHAPTER OF ECCLESIASTES EXPLAINED.
’ November 1803, I was ordered to open my B ib le
— which was at the 1st Chapter of Ecclesiastes and
the Qth Verse r—r“ The thing which hath been, k id
that which shall be done: and that which is done is
that which shall be, and there is no new thing under
the sun.”
This Chapter appeared to me to have nq meaning,
but I was answered in the following maimer— ^Simpla
ap this Chapter appeareth to thee, it was the wis-»
o o m or t h e L o r d ., that, was given to Solomon 3
but thou canst not understand it without a ? s p ir it ;
and now I will answer thee: The thing which hath
been, is that which is now done. Now ask mart-
kind if) this is a new thing, for the Woman td
Condemn the Serpent, which is the Devil ? Did she
not do it in the Creation ? and now she hath done it
again. Is it a. new thing for a Woman to deliver her
People ? did not Esther do it ? did not Judith do
it ? and was it not a Woman that nailed Sisera to
the ground ? Hut by whose power do youjudge it
was done ? was it by m y Power, making the Woman
an instrument in m y Hand? or was it in theWomen's *
power to do it of themselves ? Men must own these
wondrous works were never done by Women with­
out my strength and protection: Then why do ye
marvel if I give this Woman to nail Satan to the
ground by m y pow er, to cut off his head ; that
meaneth his Power from the Sons of M en ; and the
gallows he hath built for Man, I shall cause him to
hang thereon. Could I have hot struck Haman dead ?
Could I not have slain Holophernes in tile battle ?
Could I have caused Sisera’s death no other way but
by the hands rtfs Woman? did I do it any other way
but by the hands of a Woman-? O, ye simple sons of
men ! who washed my feet with their .tears ? who
poured the Ointment on my Head ? was I not
anointed by the Woman with the m o s t p r e c io u s
o i n t m e n t ? Then what new thing is there now
Digitized fc#Google
done ? Have not al! these things been already done
by Women— your Foes destroyed, your People
freed, your savioub’s b b a d anointed, and Satan
condemned by Women? Then that which hath
been done, must be now done: Satan cist, M an
freed, and m y h e a d anointed by a Woman.
at m m m to t i i m t n ^ f t
As she th*anointed me now ben;
To be ycmrghat Deliverer;
To be your Captain, Prince, and King,
And bring my glorious Kingdomdown.
That fe» & power upon this Earth;
You know I told you at my death,
Or when my death wasdrawingnear.
The Woman's Ointment did appear,
That she did pour upon my Head.
The cosTl Y ointment thenwas laid, -
Thatmenkt first in her did blame,
With indijnia^on did condemn,
And said the Ifcmg was done to Waste,
And yet, td%E they Lot*profess'd. ‘
But how did 1reprove them all!
And said, her Love on ME should fall;
For a good woltK on me she’d wrought,
A work that man had never thought.
Why she did so anoint m y haul;
And for my faheral then l said,
The Ointment was prepard forME,
To ri$eagain her king to be !
And a good work she'd done for all,
For me toconquer death and beH:'
Boras the work I said was o oov^
It mustby all be understood,
It never was the work of Men;
Forthev thfeWoman did condemn.
Before I took the Woman’s part;
Fbr Satan IdvellVl withhisdart
The indignation then m Man;'
Because me Woman they condemn’d,
To see her so anoint my head.
Bat know, my answer what I said,
The very thing whichshe had done
Throughout aU nations should he knownZ
Whereer my Gospel did appear.
And perfect so, l tell you here,
Ihe perfect ointment now is come,
nd the good work must now be known;
For she's anointed m e your, k in g g
And indignation strong is seen
In great professors to appear.
But nowto Oil i’ll answer here:
Her ointment shall for ever stand ;
TH he the kino in every land:
And so the seal, I say, must go—
The distantlands these things must know;
5 Digitized by Google
|54
And what tbe Woman hath begun*
1 tell you must be end'd by Man;
With the same prayer that she did m^ke,
For her petition I'lfnot break,
But to it I will ever stand*
And be the king in every land;
That is, m y kingdom shall appear; ,
And now her foes may stand in fear,
' As to the root the axe she'th laid.
Therefore her friends can't be afraid;
For I will conquer like her word*
And bring my kingdom as she 'th pray’d;
And cast the root that caus'd her fall.
For no^ 1 tell yon*one and all*
There's nothing new that hath been done:
It was at first the Woihan's plan
To east tbc blame where first it laid;
And then I said I'd bruise his head.
Now can you prove this thing is new?
No! yqu must own my words are true;
And a good work the Woman wrought***
And are these words by you forgot?
Then now, 1 bid you call to mind
What's left on record for maukind;
And then the W'oman you must see
Satan condemn'd, and honour'd me;
Then/tis m y Joe* must her condemn:
For who can answer as a roan,
That dothprofess to be my friend?
Then as a friend let him contend,
And then answer thee again.**
Now I shall assign my reasons to the world why I
• am ordered to put in print the Names of the Minis­
ters of Exeter, into whose hands the Letters were
put, of the Events of these Years— W hen I was at
Stockton-upon Tees in December last, 1803,1 was
repeating in a large company the truths that I have
here mentioned, three Methodist Preachers were pre­
sent, who had the confidence to tell me I had told
milting but lies— I mentioned to them my friends
in Exeter, who had copied the letters; and the gen­
tlemen who wrote to the clergy, to enquire into the
truth, to whom they might appeal. But they answered,
myself and friends wereall Liars; for they would not
believe them, as they might have ends to deceive the
world. Now to prove the truth to the world, the
Lord hath commanded me to put in print the Names
of the Ministers and the places of thek abode, that
A WARKING TO THX WOJU.D.
Digitized by Google
fevery man might know I hav£ hot written any cun­
ningly devisedfables to deceive anyone. And it is said
to me, the Loan will be deaf of the blood of this Na­
tion, and will set the Truth before them, before the
fatal Judgments shall foil upon them. Therefore I
am now ordered to make the truths clear to the
world 5 and that my end will be fatal, and the end
of my friends will be fatal, if we are now afraid o f
offending Men, of putting their Names or places
of abode in print. It was for these ends I was order­
ed to write unto them, and put the events of years
into their hands. : I shall give tne following words per­
fect as they were spoken to me : “ What use would
my Wisdom be to command thee to put Letters in
their hands, and to conceal them from the world ?
then my Wisdom must perish like the Wisdom o f
M en; and puttingthe Letters in their hands would
be as wrong as thou then didst judge it. But m y
Wisdom was behind to have them made public to the
world at large, that all men might know thou hast
told them no cunningly devised fables— but made
known the Coming of the L ord Jesus C h rist.**
And now I shall give the Names of the Ministers, that
they may appeal to my Enemies to be my judges:
The Rev. Chancellor Nutcombe, W est Morchard,
Devonshire— The Rev. Archdeacon Moore, at
Heavy-tree, near Exeter— The Rev. M r. Pome­
roy, then in Exeter, but, now inCornwall— The Rev.
Mr. Tucker of Heavy-tree, near Exeter, to whom I
sent the letter in ^larch 1800, that the harvest
of that year would be worse than 1799, and which
brought a much greater dearth than 1799— not only
upon the wheat but every article that was made use
of tor food, so that it was universally observed in
Devonshire, that a guinea would go farther in
Housekeeping in 1799 than one guinea and half
would in 1800; for all vegetables were treble the
price of the year before, butter double, and cheese
and animal food in proportion.— And now 1 am
clear, frcxn every Truth that my calling is from
A WARNIKG^ TO TfIR W06LD. 5$
Digitized by Google
$6 A WlimKA TA T«A WOtLIfc
die L ord, who it woadrons in Wiidom, -wondfou#
in Working, wondrous in- Council and in T ruth*
for none but.a Gon oould have brought round such
wisdom, in such a manner but a God o f T ro th i
and the very things (hat caused jealousy in m y
mind and heart, putting Letters in the hands o f m i-
} nisters, who were not convincedby the Truth, mad#
me then jealous of the Spirit, ,that it wag .not the
Wisdom of God to have them pu t into the hands o f
such men, as the clouds in theta covered the lig h t
from my eyes; but now the clouds begin tp.
burst, and the Wisdom of a G od appears to shaoo
bright in every line and in .every direction to me )
and every crooked path is now made straight before
me, and the light o f the Lord breaks strong upon
me ; for the tracks of hi# footsteps are now plain,
tfoose footsteps were hid in the great deep; and
therefore my spirits have often sunk in the groat
deep with them; but now, blessed be the h a m *
• f the L ob n, his footsteps appear out of the great
deep, and the water-floods are dried up from me, for
the Wisdom o f my God appears; therefore I cannot
- fear all the rage o f men or devils, for all. the argu­
ments they can bring forward cannot confound the
W isdom of a G o n ; therefore I fear not to incur
die anger of men, if they are angry with me for
obeying the commands of the Lord.
I fear not their angers no dangers 1fear,
Or start atne trial* far now l see clear,
The Wisdom of Fleaveu in beauty to shine,
1 nowsee Hts footsteps in every line,
la wfedotn so clear, there is none but * God
Could ever direct in the paths 1 have trod*
Then how can l fear all the malice of hell ?
No, Safftm may rage, and men’s anger may swell;
But God is myguardian, and he will protect
Me now in all dangers, lor he did direct
The wayand the footsteps wherein I have trod,
. Bad whereis theumn can contendwith his God >
Then let them in wisdom like him now appear.
And bringforth their reasons to make all things dear*
Why tfceydidJteepsilenceto let me xo on.
Till the TJtUfH to the natitn was publicly shewn*
Then sure If this wisdom was placed in.man,'
* Theyjmw mast appear for to strengthen my h a n d * . '
Digitized by G o o g l e
57
A \JARNIKO TO THfi WORLD.
Blit if that the wisdom was hid in my God,
To make them keep silence, till the truth all wasknow'd,
Then now to their Maker they all must submit,
And say*tW
as his wisdom to bring all to light;
To prove to the world, that my calling is clear;
And now let the learned men answer me here:
The waythat this knowledgewas given to me,
If youanswer from Satan, I nowanswer ye:
* A God ofall power you sure must him make.
If blessings andjudgments fromhim all do break;
Because there is power you see with the wofd—■
And weigh every harvest and what I have said.
Before they sprang forth, I told men of them ;
but not I , but the s p i r i t , that told me all things,
revealed them unto me. But as some sav it comes
from infusion in the brain, I grant it; for infusion
from the s p i r i t to my head, all is given to me.
Therefore the world judge right to Say it is infusion;
for .there is no clearer judgment men can draw, as
I never said I have seen the S p i r i t to converse with
it, as men converse with men ; but I have said it is
aSpiniTinvisible that infused into my head alii write;
but I can join with none, who say it is an infusion
from the Devil, as 1 do not believe his wisdom is so
deep, to bring things round in such a manner. A
fool's bolt is soon shot, and so is Satan’s ; neither do
I believe he hath power to fulfil the words if he had
spoken them; I know his power must fail in the
fulfilment; neither do I believe he is come to plead
against himself, andprove himself the complete author
ofevery misery, and to say the Lord is the fountain of
all happiness : and that men shall see and know.
When the power of Satan is taken from man, and
Satan is chained down, then Earth will be a Heaven
to man in comparison to what it now is. These are
the words of the S p i r i t to me ; and I no more be­
lieve they come from the Devil, than I believe the
paper is black, and the ink is white; but those that
judge it is from the Devil, must have as erroneous a
belief as it is to judge black is white, and that white
is black. But some are simple enough to believe
wonders, that never were nor ever can be, to judge
H
Digitized by Google
. 5$ A'.WARMINO Te.-TflB;W©RM>*
m y writings came from my ow» invention,tthteh are
impossible to be the invention of any created human
being. And I must answer such simple people, if I
was to invent all the days of my life, I never could
invent what lyouid happen one year, day, or hour.-—
I have no knowledge of myself to know, nor power
to fu lfil; neither is ray life in my own hands, to
know I should live to see the events of a day or
year, and the manner my writings are brought round
to be fulfilled. I.couh} as well have, made the world,
and formed the whole creation, as I could invent sucbr
writings of myself: for I. am npt. so wise as, the
yrorld has made me. Without the Spirit I ant, no-,
thing, without the Spirit I know nothing, and with­
out the Spirit I can do. nothing;;- so whether you
judge the Spiritgood or bad, to that Spirit you must
allude the whole ; for I am a living witness against
yvery man .that says my writings are of my. own in-
, yention, and 1 publicly affirm that such a man believes
i lie, and, the truth is not in him, who believes nay?
fmtjngs.are.frpm myself.
J A C O B A N D H IS S O N S .
/? ' Communication explaining-the-XLIXth Chapter o f Genesis.
JXLIX M And Jacob catted unto hit sons, tnd said* gSthcryourselves
• g e t her, that 1 m ay telt you- that which shktt lefa llyou pi the U s f
days, <
ftr. * '
j Nrow answer me,, ye worldly-wise men, when or
how. was this fulfilled ?.Did not,Jacob tell them itwas
to.be. iivthe last days ? /\r)d then was the gathering
in of the people to be,; but how was the gathering ip
* of the people, to be,.but by the.Sealing ? Now I shall
gome to the, purpose of Jacob’s;sons : his first bont
f)
' i[j_
r It was as unstable .as water,; and ai curse rested jupoqf
•f4
. his head; the$e&on/d.Vitl tjtird.were like unto.hini,
J and they .were ^catlyred aiid divided ^ but Judah
v.
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
/
</V anafauf* J U ^ 7 ty “ y
■« t x s s m o ' rot t h b w oiulix’ rSQ
7
<wte*o be praised, and the sceptre was not f©depart
from him. Now ye g e n t i l e s lo o k at the j e w s,
and see Ja c o b ’ s dying words; how did their sins
rest upon their heads ? How were they scattered
and divided ? And how do all rest upon them to
this day ? For they slew me in their anger, and
pulled down the partition walls in their fury. That y
meaneth the partition walls of their redemption, that '
stood in me, and so their anger has been cursed ; for
their wrath was cruel, and they are divided and
scattered, and their sins rest upon their heads. But
how can the sceptre be departed from Judah ? Was
I not born of the seed of the JeWs ? And were not my
disciples most of them Jews? And then how can Sm Ia'L
the sceptre be departed from them ? Do I not stand
between their feet— both the l a w and the g o s p e l _
together ? Then how can a Tribe be lost ? For the /<
£
Tribe that is lost is turned to the Gospel, and shall ^
judge his people, and be as an adder, in the way to ;
sting them, both horse and rider. That meaneth, N '
it shall sting them with words: it shall sting them
asa serpent with a spear, for so shall his words be
ofthe seed Of that tribe which is lost. Now see
what Names stand in his room ; Manasseh that was
taken amongst the thorns, and afterwards destroyed
the images that he had nude ; then here cometh the
Gentiles, they were taken among the thorns of my
Death, and forsook all the idolatry they practised
before. So if one tribe of Jacob’s sons is lost,
another is placed in his room; and the tribe that is
lost shall judge the people : that is, a people they
know not, but a people whom I know; and the
blessing that Jacob gave to Joseph shall now rest
upon all the seed of Joseph : for know, he sa,id he
stood in God’s stead, and forgave his brethren
that sold him into E gyjjt; and now I will stand in
Joseph’s stead, to forgive my brethren, that not
only threatened my life, but clamoured hard for i t ;
H %
syna+x
Digitized by Google
yet, if they now turn unto me, I will turn unto them,
as Joseph turned unto his brethren, >
60 A WARNING TO THB WORLD.
For now I stand in Joseph's stead,
As Joseph stood in mine ;
So let my brethren all proceed
And a Joseph they shall find,
Though they have been likeJacob's sons,
My lire for to destroy;
But when the famine’sin the land,
I know I shall enjoy,
To see them turn, as they 've began;
But me they will not know,
Though over them my heart doth yearn;
I’ll tell thee why ’tis so: >
Because the Gentiles now I've tried,
Aid find them like the Jews;
And so like them they’ve crucified,
Then how can I refuse
My chosen men, ifnow they turn
And seek my favour here ?
For when tne famine it is come,
They will begin to fear}
And then they’ll see the prophecy
A Joseph did fortel;
And then they'll know *t:s done by me.
And so their hearts will swell
As they began I say ’twill end,
And Jacob's sons you ’ll see, »
That by the Judgments theywill bend,
And so turn back to me.
And as Manasseh there is nam’d,
I say the thorns will come.
That many in them will be caught.
And so turn back again. •
For deep you 'll see the mystery
How every name doth stand ;
Though it is spoke of Jacob's sons,
' You *
1
1find in every land,
That Jacob’s sons the same will com
A Joseph for to see.
And when to them I am made known,
A Joseph I shall be,
I say, to all that hear the call,'
And unto Me do come.
For then I shall be known to a 1
To stand in Joseph’s room;
Because in mine, know at that time,
He *oldthem then he stood.
And now I’ll further tell my mind,
And how this all alludes:
From types and shadows I've began,
Digitized by Google
tn- **a+ic<c.
From types 1
*
1
1make an end;
The history of Jacob's sons
Are in the Bible penn'd*
For types and shadowsof the last*
Or it would not appear*
A chosen man that I had Mess'd*
And let his sons to err*
As they had done* ye simple men:
No: tnerc the type goes deep*
And back to Isaac you must come*
How he was offeree up;
And then to Jacob you must go*
For there the type you'll see,
How the two sonsfrom him were bora
A shadow deepofMe.
For one was bless’d* the other cast,
And so it then went on.
But know that Esau he did last
To have his princes come.
In grandeur nere they did appear*
Ana flourish'd for a time;
But know that Jacob did him fear*
And so do all mankind:
They still do fear the Esaus here*
Though Esau I did hate:
And yet a time for him I spar'd*
And there the type goes deep.
For Esau's here in man 1
*
1
1clear*
And then the root I'll bind;
So now the Jacobs need not fear*
For Jacob’s sons shall find
Between their feet* the mystery's great:—
The Lawgiver shall come :
The sceptre there did sure appear,
As I was born ofthem;
But then the sceptre did depart*
That everysoul may see*
When 1received a Joseph's dart*
And did toEgypt flee.
In prison cast* you know* at last
Like Joseph I was bound.
I say the famine it must come,
Before 1shall be found
Again by them: the time will com
Toe famine men will sec;
If 1don’t brine itdn your land*
In France ’twill surely be.
I say three years it shall appear*
No haryest shall be found;
And then the nations every where*
May tremble at the sound;
For altogether they will weigh*
And see hpw all did come.
Like Joseph's brethren* then I say*
Will be the hearts of men:
& WARNING TO THE WORLD. &
Digitized by ( j O O ^ l C
u We are guiltyhere, will man appear.
And Pilate’s words we see;
That of his Blood he then was dear,
And sohe charged we
To do the same, as he had done,
But it we did refuse, -
And in our anger slew the man.
His love we did abuse.
And so the wall fell down from all,
And Jacob's words we 6ee:
The Lawgiver did come to all.
Our anger curst must be,
Unless to him we now return,
His mercies to implore.” .
For then they'll think of Jofeph’s dreams.
And see my fcospel dear.
Then I’ll begin to gather in,
1 say, in every land;
For now I say, like Jacob’s tone
The nations all do stand*
Men’s fury here do strong appear,
The walls they’re throwing down:
And every nation I'll make bare,
And then 1will be found,
To gather in from every land,
Twelve nations seal’d will be. '
The shadow here you may command, ,
As thou’st began with three:
The Germans one, they have began $
The Jews—a shadow plac’d;
Ar.d when the prisons all are come,
1 then shall join the rest
But here within thou dost begin
To ask how this can be ? '
If it alludes to different lands,
The number judg’d by thee
Is nearly up: can England hope
To have their number more
Than the twelve thousand for to drop
And then it must stop here?
1 tell thee, no: it is not so;
England may favour gain,
To have the number added more^
And other lands remain, *
Not half the number to appear,
For there it cannot be,
To hare the mysteries made 00 dear
As iu this land you’ll see.
And who do come, I Ucast out none^
That do in faith appear.
For now the Law is given to all,
To see my Gospel clear;
The net is cast, the likeness bunt,
To have my Kingdom come.
A W A *N IN a TO- THE WOBL*
Digitized by Google
»
Both bad and good you ipay allude ;
For so the draughts are known:
Bat steal do more, the time is o’er;
By faith men must appear,
For to come in, my Kingdom win,
For thieves have enter'd here* ;
Because as spies have many been
Flo Jacob’s sons to be.
Thou sayest the words that thou hast perm'd
A mystery are to thee;
Worse than before thou'st not seen clear;
And this I know is true.
It is to try men’s talents here
I’ve brought it to thy view:
The shadow first, the substance last;
For I shall now try mas,
How their ideas,here will burst, -
To judge thy written hand.
Then fn appear to make all clear; :
And Shiloh they shall know; ^ ——
How I am come to gather in
The Gospel and the Law.
For my cnfciples I did try,
I tell thee, in disguise;
And in the end, *tis my intend,
That wag to make them wise.
As I was ordered to put in print the Names of the
Clergy, to whom I had written in Exeter; now to
prevent the world from blaming their conduct, I shall
give the following communication, that is given tp
me concerning them.
* As the things were not made clear unto them,
let no man blame them ; for I permitted the shep­
herds to act as they did, to make the type deep to
the nation; but at that time it was not clear to them.’*
— Now my readers must observe, when these let­
ters were returned in 1799, it was before the harvest;
and no clear proofs had been put into the hands of
the Chancellor or the Archdeacon; therefore it is
said to me, the mark that stood for the whole na­
tion was put in the dark to them, which was fore­
told on January 17th, 1797, and is in the 15th page
of the Sealed Prophecies— " And so the mark was
put in the dark to them in 1799 ; that they did not
discern, neither did they know the visitat ion was
from the Lord -
r for the mark was concealed from
• Many have had seals only to know what was in them.
A WARNING TO THE WQBI.B.
Digitized by Google
6 i A WARNING 3*0 THK WORlfl.
t
them at that time. As I said 1would put the mark
so that they should not discern ; though I might spoil
some, as Woolland spoiled his eggs. And now I tell
thee, it was 1 that permitted this of the Chancellor
and the Archdeacon, to set the mark in the dark
for them, that it might hereafter stand in the light
to the nation. For though I spoiled those two har­
vests, as Woolland spoiled some of his eggs, yet it
was to prevent the thief from robbing the whole na­
tion through unbelief; and to convince mankind
this visitation was from the Lord. I now brder this
mark to be set as a sign for all men, though then in
the dark, but .now to be brought to light. The
two harvests were then spoiled in part like the eggs;
but the whole was not spoiled, as he did not spoil
the whole. Now this that was done in secret, must
now be made known, that the whole nation may
not perish. For as the shadow stood from the two
letters, and both harvests followed, so now the
mark is set in the light for all men, as the truth
is made known. And now, if men bdgto in the
light, as they began in the dark, it shall be fatal
for your land. They sinned through ignorance, as
no clear lighrwas given them ; but now the nation
Jiave no cloak for their sins. Then it was as a can­
dle put under a bushel, that gave no clear light to
man ; but now it is as a candle in a candlestick put
on the table, to give light unto all men : and now
let all men take the warning. Then I punished
but with few stripes, because they knew not what
they had done, as all was concealed from them ; but
now all is made clear to mankind, and I shall
?unish with many stripes, if unbelief now abounds.
'he shadow of the two harvests is the substance to
the nation. So now, if I am mocked by the shep­
herds, their end shall be fatal; if they refuse to warn
their sheep, and they perish in their sins, their blood
will I require of the shepherds' hands. But if the
shepherds give the warning, and the people re-
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
fuse to take'it, then the shepherds shall save their
souls alive, and every man’s sin shall be upon lus
own head. So now if the poor mock the warning,
let them not complain of suffering nor of famine ; for
suffering and famine shall come upon them; and
let them not complain; but. say, as Joseph’s brethren
did,— “ W e are verily guilty concerning our brother,
in that we saw the anguish of his soul and would
not hear.” For the anguish of thy soul they must
see and know, what thou hast suffered for an un­
grateful nation ; and let them know, that rebellion
and ingratitude are as the sin of witchcraft: and if
ingratitude and rebellion are now found in mail, the
punishment of that sin shall fall upon them. So if
persecution is now found in the poor, their suffering
shall be trebled to what it was in 1799 or the 1800.
And if rebellion and unbelief be now found in the
rich, they shall fall by the sword, or some fatal dis­
ease ; and if in the shepherds, their end shall
be without honour. For the year of my Judgments
is come; and they shall not cease till Judgments
arc executed into victory. Then shall m y fierce
anger be over, when every heart is longifig for my
Kingdom : and 1 now tell thee, it shall not Cease
before..
Now I shall come to Jacob’s Sons: I have told
thee, he told them what should befall them in the
last days; and know, in my Bible, I called my
people all the Sons of Jacob; because it was said,
in Isaac all the families of the Earth should be blesr
sed; 'and that Blessing was to rest upon Jacob,
Then know, in Jacob all the families of the Earth
must stand ; for Esau was a type of the end of
Satan's reign after having his power for a time, as
Esau had; but the end of the Promise was to rest up­
on Jacob* I have shewn thee part of. the meaning 01
Jacob’s dying words; and now I shall answer thee
further: know that Joseph was persecuted by his
btethren, and sold' into E gypt; and there he was
. l
A WAHNItfG TO THB WOfelp* $3
Digitized by L,ooqle
A WARWING TO THE WORLD.
6 6
* U X
L
*^ a
exalted, and made a governor in that place; anil
Jacob blessed him above all his sons. Now'those
that are persecuted for my sake, are the people
whom my Bleflings shall rest upon; and they shall
be exalted, and rise to honour, as Joseph was. Sq
ye must now suffer a Joseph's Persecution, before
ye receive a Joseph’s Blessing. For know, I have
said, 1 stand in Joseph’s stead, as Joseph stood in
m ine; then ye must be children of persecution,
KUK <
y
%that will now be exalted and blessed, as Jacob bles­
sed Joseph. But remember Jacob’s words— ‘‘ T he
archers have sorely grieved him, and shot at him, and
hated him j but his bow abode in full strength, and
the arm of his hand was made strong by the hand o f
the mighty God of Jacob : from thence is the Shep­
herd, the Stone of Israel. Now let the wise men
understand, this was to befall the sons of Jacob in
the last days; and the sons of Jacob are the sons o f
believers, that believe in the mighty God of Jacob.
Now go back to Joseph: it was his dream of pro­
motion that provoked his brethren to anger against
him ; and so it was with the Jews, when I came in
the Flesh. But now 1 am come in the Spirit, to
bring all the blessings upon Joseph’s children: for
the type of Joseph stood in m e ; and he told his
brethren, he stood in God’s stead. Then now come
to tiie blessings Jacob past on Joseph and his proge­
nitors unto the utmost bounds of the everlasting
hills, they should be on the head of Joseph, and on
26 the crown of the head of him that was separated
from his brethren. Here is the end for all men ;
for I, like Joseph, was separated from my brethren ;
but now is come the end, to receive the crown
24 Of the mighty God of Jacob: and now my-bow shall
abide in full strength, though the archers have shot
at me, and they are daily doing it, by rejecting
my Spirit; but now I will be the Shepherd, and the
Stone of Israel, and lead my people Israel; for m y
people Israel are the children of Abraham by Faith;
for the Promise was made through Faith: and now
L
Digitized by Google
>
L
£J<
1
" X L IX
• > ‘
A W ARMIX G TO THB WOBID* fi?
through Faith it shall be obtained. The blessings of
Joseph must now rest on those who are persecuted
for my sake, believing in my visitation^ as Joseph
was persecuted for believing the visitation of the Lord
to him in a dream. And now is coming a Joseph’s
persecution to my Spirit; and now shall come the
blessings upon all them that bear it for my sake.
Now mark the other Sons: how he told them o f •
the end, then the gathering in of the people was to
b e ; he would be binding his foie unto the vine, and "
his ass’s colt unto the choice v ise ; he had his gar­
ments washed in wine, and his clothing in the
blood o f grapes; faris eyes should be red with wine, ]2
and his teeth white with milk. Now tell me, ye
learned, how you understand Jacob’s dying words 2
Or in what manner da you judge they were ful->
filled ? Or in what manner da you judge they are to
be fulfilled in the last days 2 But thou sayest in thy
heart— no man can tell, or explain them. Then
now I will explain them to thee : As the type of the
Eggs, in 17P7> was a shadow of what was to be put
in tbe hands of the ministers at Exeter, afterwards
in 1799; for in their hands I put the mark, that I
had set before, by the E g g s; as the type of
Woolland was the type of the shepherds; so the
Words of Jacob were a type of the last days and of
m b . For now is coming the gathering in of the $
people to the vine', and to the choice vine.— Now
come to my Gospel: my riding to Jerusalem on an
ass, when they cut down the boughs and tbe
branches, to bind my foie unto the vine; but it is
the ass’s colt must bind them to the choice vine ;
whitfe garments are washed in the wine of my blood,
that is drank in remembrance of m b ; and the
dothing in tbe blood o f grapes, from whence
cometh wine; mid the teeth white with milk, that
is, the milk o f my word, which is now come to
mankind; that ye may all desire the sincere
milk o f my word, and that ye may grow thereby.
i a
Digitized by Google
XUX,
/a
2 4«y^
IS
/«
C/U
^- .<
')
* ijJltrJ 20
i /**.aa2*if
68 A WASHING TO THB WOBLUi
U 2*
w ;
23
., ^ z ,
For Jacob prophesied of the end: and now the
end of all things is at hand; for the havens o f the
sea, and the ships are coming, which shall bring
them to Zidon, or Mount Zion: for. the nations are
bowing between two burdens, and they shall see that
test i6 good, and the land I have promised is
pleasant. Therefore they shall bow to enjoy it, and
become as servants to tribute unto it, when I begin
by man to judge my people, and they see thejudg­
ments that are threatened hastening on them fast.
Then will believers see the Salvation of the Lord,
that they have waited to see; and though a-troop
o f men may overtake them at first, yet they shall
overcome them at last, that are by faith the sons of
Jacob; and they shall be fed with royal dainties,
as I have promised them ; for the bread is the bread
of life, that is now come down to man; and the land
shall be full of fatness : for as a hind let loose will I
now give good words ro my people ; and as a hind
let loose their joys will be, when they are loosed from
Satan’s power. Then cometh the fruitful bough
to Joseph, even a fruitful bough by a well, which
is a well of living waters for man, whose branches
run over the walls of Salvation. *For though the
archers may grieve them at first, and shoot at them
and hate them ; but the bow of true believers shall
abide in full strength, till they are redeemed by. the
mighty God of Jacob. For I am come in the Spi­
rit, to be the Shepherd, the Stone of Israel, to build
up the walls of Salvation for Man. But was this re­
vealed to a man, by miy Spirit; that man must rob
m e of the honour due unto my Name ; and who
could look to m e as the Shepherd of all men,' that
suffered Death in the Body for Man; but told them I
should come again in power; and the Testimony o f
mv Coming is from the Spirit of Prophecy; for I
said, my Father would send the Holy Ghost, that
is the Comforter, in my Name, to bring all things to
yourremembrance, {jut bow could it qome.in my
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
A WARNING TO THB WORLD* 69
Name, if it was given to a'man ? Then it must be
in his name, to be the Shepherd, and Stone of Israel
for men. to build upon ; but now they must all build
upon that Shepherd who neither slumbereth nor
deepeth, but like a Shepherd is preaching in thy
cars; and from M b .all thy infusion comes ; that
every soul shall know and see. For now is coming
blessings from the heavens above, blessings of the
deep that lieth under: that is when your ene­
my is confined to the deep, that lieth under
man; and his power cannot rise to hurt m an;
then cometh the blessing of the breast in the
womb of Providence; and then shall the everlasting
bills be lifted up for man, with crowns of happi­
ness upon their heads. Then shall the ravening
wolf, that devours the prey in the morning, divide
his spoil in the evening. And now I will tell thee
what that meaneth : Satan is the ravening wolf that
will devour many, who will fall a prey to him ; for
there are many who desire to be free from him, and
to have my Kingdom established; yet, as a wolf he
will devour them that are not strong in faith; and
they that have no faith he will totally destroy. But
when the night cometh for his destruction, he shall
divide the spoil; for where the hand-writing ap-
peareth against him, they shall be divided from
him ; and from the others, that wish his Kingdom
to stand. For then shall the spoil he hath made be
divided in man ; for there is a mystery in the Sealing
no man can know, before they have seen the end.
Then will every soul that have heard it wisli they
had been sealed, to be divided from Satan’s power.
For then cometh the end, when every blessing that
was said to Joseph, doth rest on the seed of Joseph ;
and their blessings, will be established by Satan’s
being bound in the deep, from man, Then he shall
divide the spoil that he hath made in man'; they
that do not wish his Fall, but rather have him re­
main, shall go and remain with him ; but they that
24
XLfX
2 5
2 5
2
7
/Jt+y
2 7 A
n*r/h ,
jL> * A
*.
Digitized by Google
wish to be freed from his power shall be divided firotif
him. Here I have given thee the meaning of Jacob'*
dying words to bis softs, what shall befall man in the
last days : and now the last days are come; so let
them compare Jacob's dying words with all thy pro­
phecies, if they were given to thee from any Spirit
that was not from the L or*. It was by the Spirit
o f Prophecy Jacob spoke to his sons, what the last
days would be to aU the sons of men. Now let the
learned answer thee ; and.I shall answer thee again $
.
for I hare not revealed every mystery in them yet?
but this I have left for the learned to dispute, to try
the wisdom of men. Now let all look to Jacob’*
dying words, and draw their judgment from what
1 havfc said.
The following communication was given in N o­
vember 1803, at Stockport, ip answer to the malici-.
Ous lies and persecution f met with there ; yet some
came to be true believers— I was answered in the
following manner:
T hy coming hither will be a blessing unto some
in this place, but it will be a curse unto others; for
I now tell thee and all mankind, it is not thee but M e ;
it is not thy Spirit but m y Spirit that they are perse­
cuting. It was not thy will but m y will lo send thee
hither, to be clear from the blood of all men, that
they might know the days of their visitation. But
know ye not they must crucify the Lord afresh, and
put him again to open shame ? Cm this be done in
the Body ? I tell thee no; it is in the Spirit it must
be done ; or how can the day come that must bum
like an oven, and the wicked be burnt up like
stubble? The day of my Coming could not be so
severe were there no such persecuting spirits in men;,
and this must be to the fulfilment of the Scriptures,,
when I come to ask and receive my full demand to
have the Heathens for my inheritance, and the utter­
most parts of the earth for my possession, the Gen-
70 A WARNIK0 TO THE WORE*.
Digitized by U o o Q l e
A WARNING TO THB WOBLD
ties’ tumult must arise, reject my doctrine and my
Laws. Now call to thy remembrance the words 1
said unto thee in 1792, the 2d Psalm should be
fulfilled ; but how can it be fulfilled, if men did
not fulfil one part as it is written of man ? And as
they are fast fulfilling their part, now I will go
on fast to fulfil the other part, until the whole Psalm
is fulfilled* How could my Bible be fulfilled with­
out persecution ! Did I not say, blessed are ye
that are persecuted for my sake, great should be
your reward in heaven, when men revile you, and
say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake?
Rejoice and be exceeding glad, that ye are' counted
worthy to suffer this reproach for m e : and now for
m b you all suffer this reproach, and all manner o f
lies falsely ; then now see the Crown that is before’
you all, for every Promise in my Bible must rest
upon your heads; for I new tell tbee, all is hasten­
ing on fast, when th
time to persecute,while I have been seeking fruit and
found it not— but the following years the evils shall
begin to fall; for I will trifle with men no longer;
die redeemed of the Lord is nigh at hand, and their
recompense is near; but what recompense could be
near fbr them, if they suffered no reproach, no per­
secution, no reviling, for my sake ? W hat have they
to rejoice and be exceeding glad for, that they are
counted worthy to endure all ■ these things for m e ?
The Scriptures must now be all fulfilled, and they
cannot be fulfilled without divisions of men, and per­
secutions of men. For know, I told you, my flock
was but a little flock, and they should not fear the
xeviling o f pen ; now I have shewed thee from the
Scriptures all this must be to fulfil them, and bring
the reward to believers; but by faith you are saved,
and that not of yourselves. This I have said-unto
thee, and unto them that believe thy writings as
coming from the Lord; to shew you from the Scrip-
their Lewd. These
Digitized by
tures this must be to fulfil the Scriptures, and bring
the glorious reward to believers who are my friends,
and revenge my foes. For now is conning the fulfil­
ment of all my Bible, and what I said on the
Mount, 7th Matt, with what judgment they signed
they shall be judged : and with what measure they
mete it shall be measured to them again. Now I
shall answer thee of judging : what judgment can
they have of their God to judge I will fulfil every
word spoken to thee if it comes from the Devil in
m y n a m e ?They must believe I a m joined with him,
■ or that Satan hath power over all the works of my
h a n d s ; that sun and rain is guided by him, and not
by m e ; that blessings and judgments are in the hands
o f the Devil, and not in m y h a n d s . So fallen men,
like fallen angels, must judge Satan’s power is greater
than mine, if I had not power to change the signs
that he had fixed, as they say they werefixed by the
Devil. The two bad harvests of 1799, 1800, could I
not change those signs to two good harvests, and
brought forward my shepherds to confound his lies
to prove they came from the author of lies, if they
came from him ? And when the signs were publish­
ed to the world for three good harvests, on conditions
o f ministers and others searching out the truth,
could I notchange those blessings, if Satan had fixed
the signs ? And if Satan had worked in the hearts of
men to fulfil the one, could I not have shamed
him by sending three bad harvests to prove it came
from the author of lies ? Did I not say the Devil was
the father of lies and the author of them from the
beginning ? And now shall I make him the God o f
truth, by fulfilling ,his words what way soever he
fixed the signs to make his words true, and make .
myself a liar ? When I said he was the father o f
lies, shall I now make him the author of every
truth ? Then I must be a liar like unto yourselves,
who have made lies all your refuge, and under false­
hood you have hid yourselves, putting good for evil,
? 2 A WARNING TO THR WORLD.
Digitized by G o o g l e
End evil for good, light for darkness, and darkness
lor ligh t; bitter for sweet, and sweet for bitter; but
f
our turning things upside down will not do. For
now say, they have robbed M e, both of m y Ho*
irouit and Power— and given to the Devil that
T ruth, Honour, and Power, that is d ue. to M b
alone : yet they will say, shall a Man rob G od ? 1
answer, Yes, they have robbed Me of my Honour
and great Name, and have given wisdom, know­
ledge, power, and truth, to the bevil, to say he
ham made godd thy Prophecies, and that he bath
nroved my Bible true ! which no thin upon earth
hath ever done, neither is it in the power of man to
do it, before I come to fulfil i t ; but then have
judged it is fulfilling by the Devil, who hath more
knowledge, wisdom, and power than their C rea-
Tob— for he is templing Man at last, as he tempted
E ve atfirst— to believe that the Words of G od are.
hot tfu e; but then they must judge the Words of
Satan are true, if they judge it came from him as the
truth hath followed. But here I am reasoning with
Men as Men, to shew them their errors; but if they
are not convinced 1 shall reason, and come in Pow-
er as a G od : t am G ob and there is none besides
M e ; my Honour I will hot give to another. W is­
dom, Power, and Truth, are in M e alone; for m t
E y e is every where present, and as high as the Hea­
vens are from the Earth, so far are my Thoughts
from their Thoughts, ahd my W ays from •their
W ayS: shall I not now awake as one out of sleep ?
lik e one out of sleep I told- thee I should awake, to
destroy those who rob M e of my Honour, and give
it to the Devil, by ascribing, all to him; then now
judge for yourselves, O ye inhabitants of the Earth,
Onwhat rock have ye built your Salvation ? Is not
your building on the sand ? Then know, the storms
are gathering ; the floods will soon descend to
throw down all your building, and great will be your
fell. where is the G od in whom ye have trust-
&
A WARNING TO Th e W ORtD. 7 £
, Digitized by
f 4 A WARNING TO THE WORLD,
fed ! that frustrateth the tokefi of the liars, wh<S
maketh diviners mad, and turneth the wise men,
backward, and maketh their wisdom foolishness $
and now I will make all their wisdom foolishness.
Should I answer as an angry G o d , no man could
bear my Words nor hear my reproof, that I should
answer to the sons of men, who have seen the d if­
ferent changes that have taken place, bt this Nation
and all others, in.the.{w elve years that are past
should happen to make the signs set by the D evil
Come true; then let men answer, what they judge
6i M e now, as I have set many signs to thee of the
wrong judgments of mCn in things that are temporal,
to compare them with their wrong judgments in
things that are spiritual; so, now I Say the same
unto thee and unto all m en; for as wrong as they
are saying thou hast children brought'upbj the Pa­
rish, and that thou art Bonaparte’s Brother, and
that thou hast been in Prison, so false is their saying
thy Writings came from the Devil, or any Spirit
but the S p i r i t of the L i v i n g G o d ; and that,
every soul in this Nation shall know before the f i v e
t e a r s I mentioned to thee in 1802 are expired, and
then I will turn as a d i a d e m of Beauty to the resi­
due o f my People, and they shall praise the G o d
o f t h e i r S a l v a t i o n .
T he following communication was given to me the SO of
Nov. 1803, in answer to a man who came to T.eeds from
London, with a notorious falsehood, to say I had forbid
marriage ; a thought that never eutered my heart, and not
a word to that purpose ever came out of my mouth. B ut
to his words I was answered :
“ They may as well forbid the marriage of men as
forbid the m a r r i a g e of the l a m e . For I was born
like men, I spoke like men, and 1 act like men; and
TH E MARRIAGE O F TH E LAMB.
Digitized by L r O O Q l e
jy WARNING. ^Oy ^H E WQBL^. 7 *
f said, I should deal with men after the manner of'
men: now they may as well say, a man and woman,
may live together if their hearts, are united, as man
atncf wife, without the ceremony of the church; or with-,
out the wedding ring ; and say, if they are married in
the sight of G on what use is there for the marriage
o f men, as to say their heart without their hands
will bind them to the m a r r i a g e of the l a m b . .Fo(
Know, it is compared to m a r r i a g e when I come to
unite all Nations together, and to inlist all men un­
der m y b a n n e r : they must choose M e for the
Bridegroom, as a W ife chooses her Husband for her
Bridegroom. But as the marriage bond cannot be
completed by choice before the h a n q is given with
the h e a r t and the wedding ring is put o n ; no
more can the m a r r i a g e of the l a m b join M b as
the b r i d e g r o o m to renounce every rival against
M e, before the Hand is given with the h e a r t ; then
RS a man is bound in honour to protect his wife, and
avenge her injuries, so am I in h o n o u r bound toa-
venge those whose Hands are given to m e to re-,
nounce every rival that is ag^ipst M e ; but as a man
cannot protect a woman as a wife, however strong
his affections may be, without m a r r i a g e , per­
fectly so, I now tell you, however strong your
hearts may be given to M e, X am not bound in
h o n o u r to protect you, as a r r i d e g h o o m , to en»
joy m y k i n g d o m of p e a c e ; without your h a n d s
being given with your h e a r t s , that you may
reign with M e the o n e t h o u s a n d y b a b s ,— there­
fore it was compared to marriage; to be glad and
rejoice that I was come to enter into Marriage
Bonds with Man, and M an with Me ; and know, the
Sealing is said to be to the Day of Redemption; that
I have visited m y People, and shall r e d e e m them
by entering into Marriage Bonds with M e. The
hand writing is the hand giving— and the Seal is the
Marriage Ring— the Name that is sealed' in the
F o r e h e a d , is the Name that is signed in the Forc-
K 2
Digitized by L r O O Q i e
head by Baptism: therefore I said it must come to
the Standard of the C hurch* I will now tell thee,
what this Marriage meaneth— As a Husband is cm-,
powered to avepge an insult offered to his W ife b y
the union of the hand in Marriage, §o am I em­
powered as a Husband to avenge the injuries offered
to those that give their hands to M b, tq be signed
and sealed for their Redemption : for as the Bon$
seals Man's Redemption, so'shall the Bond seal Sa­
tan’s destruction. For if you discern the maimer o f
the Sealing it stands for both— but how could I, in
honour consistent with a G o d , that hath always
acted with men after the manner of men, come as
a Bridegroom to avenge the injuries done to his W ife,
that he was not empowered to do by the Heaft, be-,
fore she had given to him her hand ? Then h i s Ho­
nour is engaged tosave and avenge his Wife’s injuries;
just so is m y H on o u r engaged to save all that are
entered into this Bond with M e. And if Satpn works
to tempt them, I, as a Husband, will avenge him; for
this 1 am bound in honour to do; and though I may
take many to Glory, that Satan might not say, “ they
• signed not in d o v e to M e but in love to their own
hives, because they might live for ever /” therefor?
they must be parted, and some die to shame the De?
vil, that it is not for the sake of long life that they
are signing for m y K i n g d o m , but for their l o v r
fo M e that they wish for m y Kingdom either in the
W orld of G lor y above, or in the World here be­
low ; and for that Power to be destroyed that is a ri*
yal between G od and them.
f6 A WARNING TO THB WORL9*
So now see plain, ye spns of mep.
The Marriage ‘
must appear, ‘
That yoi| must giveyopr bands to M
£»
Ere I can conquer here5
Because like man is all my plant
Apd trace my Bible through,
Jbrought my likeness all tom
ap^
from Abrahamproveit Hue;
Digitized by Google
pecause hi* son was offered up,
And so was 1the same;
put know that Isaac did not drop.
The Ram the victim came.
But know, like man was then my plan}
Like Isaac I was bound;
And as the life remained in him,
So life ii) Mp was found.
I say the same, to men I came,
As Isaac did return,
.And in my body did appear,
You know, again toman.
Then now like man you see my plan.
When Moses did appear,
To warn them of the promis'd land.
My chosen men to clear;
That was to free from misery,
From Pharoab's cruel hand;
The blood was sprinkled then by mi.
Before my angel came
To sweepaway, as now I say,
All the Egyptian host;
As they would never Me obey,
I rid them offthe coast
He followed there, let men see clear,
But then I smote the tide,
And made mychosen men gothrough,
And I myself(lid bide
Then in the pillar of the cloud.
And Moses did pass through,
While Pharoah knew not I was God*
He hasty did pursue;
Put then his wheels I tookaway.
That be could not SP through,
And when I brought tne break of day*
Then Moses' words came true:
The enemyyou've seen this day,
You shall not see him more;
That night Tdrown’d the enemy,
And brought my men on shores
That liad obey'd, as then I said—
*
So thus L$ct with man;
And now like Moses I’ll proceed,
And tell you ^11my plan.
The second Star doth now appear,
And Moses must pass through;
And Pharoah may begin to fear:
Satan wity find it sq,
That Pharoah he the next must bet
'As Isaac I become:
por Satan now must mil like me,
And feel a Pharoah’s doom.
If he pursues he'll surely knm*
Like Pharoan he shallfall;
A WARNING TO THB WORJ.O. ff
Digitized by U o o Q l e
78
• ■ ■
A WARNING TO THE WORLD*
For, as the Blood was on the doors,
The Seals are npw for all.
Because like roan is all my plan;
Isaac and Pharoah see: ^
A type of Satan was in one*
As Isaac was of me.
And from the Blood, mark what is said.
Foretold the life of man,
How in their graves they wopld be laid.
And feel my heavy hand.
So from the Seal I now reveal,**"
Mark what I’ve said to thee:
That Jezebel's a type of hell,
And Esther was of me.
Then now you see a mystery
Of Jezebel before: '
She seal'd Naboth’s destiny
The righteous perish'd there; ‘
For Naboth he was plac'd on high,
And stoned by her seal.
But now comes on the mystery,
That I shall here reveal:
Esther, you know, receiv’d the blow,
Her people was to die,
As Haman sought their overthrow,
And Mordecai was nigh
To warn her then, her brethren
Were all condemn’d by he;
And so her life she ventur'd there,
Her brethren for to free. "
Now here’s a mystery to mankind.
That they*do not discern,
How Jezebel her death did find,
A type of hell become;
And Esther was a type of me,
As 1 have.said betore;
For Satan shall his ruin see,
As Jezebel did there;
Because the stroke I’ll now turn back,
I tell thee, by the Seal.
My Promises they are not slack,
For 1shall now reveal,
That Esther’s come, it shall be known.
Her brethren for to clear;
A Haman’s pride for to unthrone,
And men behold her prayed:
As Esther came unto the king,
To have proud Haman cast,
Herbrethren therethatshemight screen,
And free them at the last.
So it is here, I’ll make itclear;
^For she has ask’d the same,
for to have Satan to be cast,
That man might knowmy Name.
Digitized by Google
a W a r n in g t o t h e w o r l d . 79
T is man to free from misery,
That her Petition's made:
And can’t you see the mystery ?
Oh men, be not misled!
But see the Marriage of the L amb,
How it is written there:
The W ife is ready now for man,
To have her L ord appear.
Now all in all, behold her call;
No rival stands between;
For me to come and govern all,
This Marriage plain is seen,
Is plac'd by she, let mortals see*
The Bridegroom govern all;
And so she’s wishing now for me—
Oh men, behold her call!
The Marriage here must first appear,
Now from the Woman’s hand,
And I a David will appear;
And bid the Brides to come.
Then sure her hand shall ever stand,
I tell you at the last;
And every Bride like her shall stand,
That enters in her list;
With love appear, as she doth here,
To wish me all in all,
And like a Bridegroom govern here,
Now mark her ever)' call.
The Powers of Darkness to tread down
Is her Petition given,
And I the L ord of all be found,
And Earth resemble Heaven.
This is her call, 1 tell you all,
And it l'U now make good. *
*
My hand is offering now to all,
And with you so to wed;
Like man appear to govern here.
That claims the house his own;
Then every rival he can clear,
And let his power be known,
That he is come the Wife to claim.
And her Protector be.
And now I'm come to act like men,
That every soul shall see;
For here's the Marriage of the Lame
T hat'doth you all invite;
The Testimony now is come,
[f men canjudge aright,
Then they must see the mystery.
How all things do appear;
The W ife is ready to tread down
The Powers of Darkness here. '
So wonder on, ye sons of men,
That can't my footsteps see;
Digitized by Google
to A WARNING TO *HE WORttf
On earth the wonder must become
To men a mystery;
To seea Woman thus appear,
Where every light is given;
If you do judge from Hell must be,
T o mock the God ofHeaven.
Is Satan cometoyou vain meni
‘ To make my Bible true ?
That man did never here discern, ^ .
, And bring all to your view/'
And prove toman the time is come
The Bridegroom must appear,
Myrivals all for to unthrone,
T h e Hand to prove it here,
That now the Brides are all my own
Is Satan come to clear? *
Ah, simple men, is this your plan,
To mock the God of Heaven;
And say from Hell is now her hand.
Where every light is given ?
Then he must be morewise than me.
When I created man; •
Because the good he soon destroy'd,
That I had given to him.
Hishelpmate there he did ensnare,
To help him to be cast; %
, And now is Satan come to clear,
r/r — And sayon him must burst?
4 The curse was laid, as then I said,
*C*~f*r 7 f f r Is Satan come to claim?
Against himself then he is rose,
Then how shall he remain?
Like Judas here he must appear.
And hang himself for all,
If he is come for to condemn,
And plead he brought the Fall
At first on roan, and I condemn'd
Him for his every guilt;
And now his curse it must come on,
Ashe my Blood has spilt! ' A
Then conscienceheremuststrongappearw
And Satan must repent;
And say as Judas did before,
To say his mind is bent
Himselfto free from infamy',
And sat he me betray'd;
But now tne halter he ’tn prepar'd,
For me to bruise hiS head.
This must he done, ye simple men.
If Satan so appear, •
And he a Judas must become,
To hang himself see clear.
This, by your plan, is Satan's hand,
As time the works you places
Digitized by Google
81
That Satan's come for to condemn,
And free the human race;
That he hath betray'd, as Judas said,
The innocence of man;
And.nowhe is come his guilt to plead,
Like Judas to condemn.
SoJudas see you're made of he*
Like Judas to repent
Now, simple men, behold your plan.
You mock both Hell and Heaven;
To say her light from Satan came,
That unto ner is given.
Then he must be more wise than me,
When first he caus'd the Fall;
And say his life he'll freely give,
Toprove the truth ofaU:
That fallen men like Gods may come,
And good from evil know;
And in their stead that he will bleed.
To prove his words were true:
No death in man he said shouldcome,
And now tofree the Fall,
That dead to knowledge they were then,
Hath he now prov a to all;
My honour here to make it clear,
In everystep to man.
Then he must be aswise as me,
A penitent become;
And so repent, and now relent
That e'er he caus'd their Fall;
And in their stead he’ll freely bleed.
And die to ransom all.
This must be done by your own plan,
To say from Hell they came;
You give the merit unto him,
And so despise my name.
For Pharoah’s wonders are in you,
Your wise-men you deceive,
That Satan will these wonders do,
And so you them believe,
That he is come to ransom man,
According to his word;
That you as earthly Gods may stand,
Ana evil know and good.
These wonders first from him did burst
As they from Pharoah came;
But did he do them at the last ?
Youknow not Satan's name;
Proud Lucifer he doth appear,
And canyou lower his pride,
To say he'll stoop to God and man.
For to bring back the tide ?
SoHell you mock, for you knownot
The pride in Satan reigns.
L
▲ WARNING TO THE WORLD*
Digitized by L , o o Q l e
Ile'd sooner feel in y h ta vy stroke,
For to be bound in .chains,
T h an sto op so,lot.i tom an to go*
Like Judas to repent *
For this I know, he’ll never do,
His mind’s too fully bent,
T o swell with pride, on every side* ,
For men do mock him here, -
T o say he's come to act like man.
Like Judas to appear*
N o : Pharoah see is the ty p e c fh e ,
And so he will go on
Until lie hath hrougbthia destiny,
A Phai oah's end will come.
So Satan here doth strong appear,
1 say, to mock you a ll;
T o i lace these m iraclesin him ,
T h at he will clear the Fall*
O r make it clear, it must appear,
T o make my Bible ti*ue;
A n d so your G od you're mocking here,
I II bring all to your view : •
Y ou mock the word* I spoke at first,
W hen lcrea ted M an ;
T o sav the W om au must be made, •
And for his good be com e;
Y o u mock the curse.that l pronounc'd
Upon the Sem ent’s head ;
You mock m y Bible every where
These promises are made,
T h a t all the earth 1 shall redeem,
And Man the good must know ;
T h e Tree o f Life was sav’d for liim ,
A n d M an shall find it so.
Y ou mock the purchase o f iny blood;
For I must die in vain,
T h at tn the cross the victim stood,
If Death and H ell remain.
A s it hath been so strong in man,
I tell you to this day,
M y Bible you are mocking, on,
N or sec how it doth lay. *
I said 1 died mankind to save,
A nd Satan to destroy;
It was for M an m y Life I gave,
T h a t I might M an enjoy,
In hill perfection as at first,
W h en I did him create ;
And I will prove it in the last .
M y Promises are great,
Throughout m y Bible as tliey^tam L
If men will trace them through.
Therefore I gave m y strict command,
T h a t men the same should do.
A.WjUtNING? TO T M VfcOJfrLtl*
Digitized by Google
In them there is eternal Life,
That testify o f m e ;
Then search the Scriptures, I command, -
And every truth you'll $ee:
That I must conquer Death and1H ell,
And triumph over all,
And to ray Father reconcile
T h e guilt o f A d am s Fall.
It must be done, be It known to man, '
And you must own it soj
Or you must mock m y every word.
M y Bible can’t be true.
By all the wisdom you h ate form’d,
Yonr forming will not do.
Shall I cut oft* my chosen race,
For such, ye men, a# you,
T o prove to knowledge man was dead,
As they did then appear ?
But now your knowledge it is trial,
You do not see more clear ;
But grosser darkness doth abound,
M y Bible stands more plain,
For men to see the mystery,
How all things do appear
W orse than the Jews ye Gentiles be,
A n d now I’ll prove it here ;
Because m y Death yo^i do allow*,
As spoken in the F a ll;
T h en now 1 bid you answer how,
Your Saviour voucan call, ,
T o die for ye and Satan free,
Y e simple sons o f men !
M 'orse than the Jews you certain he,
A nd much more blind than them.
For I’ll appear to prove it clear,
M ore wrong you now believe,
T h a t I w*ould shed m y Blood for men
T h e D evil to reprieve.
Still to go on as he hath done,
A n d boasting to this day,
M y Blood was shed in vain for man,
M y chosen men do lay,
In every land despise m y name ;
A nd Gentiles now are found
T o say a bastard I did come,
T h en tremble at the sound :
For men must tall, I tell you all,
If I let Satan reign ;
A n d do not now avenge the Fall,
M y Bible all maintain, '
'That it is true before your view,
For all I’ll now make good ;
A n d those that will not me obey,
M ust perish in the flood. ’
L 2
k WAWNttfG TO TtfE WORLD.
Digitized by
T h e n search the Scriptures, I command,
For now I’ll make them true;
A n d there you’ll find eternal L ife
Is laid before your view.
So be not like the hypocrites,
T o say you’ll fast and prav;
For your much speaking will not do,
I now to all do say,
Unless you build upon the Hock *
O f A ges that are past,
A n d then no longer will you moc ,
But see how all is plac
T h a t it must fell, I tell you all,
O n Satan’s guilty head;
Y o u know my Blood must be avengd,
• A s then the prophet said-
B ut O h ! on man, is now your plan
T o bring m y vengeance there;
Can you profess to love my N am e,
A nd kiss the fatal spear,
T h a t first m y side, by man applied,
W h en for them I aid die, *
I said they knew not what they had done,
T h en surely l must lie,
If not from H ell the rage did swell,
T h en there m y Blood must fall,
Unless you now will kiss the spear,
A n d your own ruin call.
So now see plain, ye sons o f men.
Y our sicktv love to ME,
W h o vindicate the D evil s reign,
W h ile all his arts you see,
T o work in man for to blaspheme,
I say, my every Name.
T h en sickly is your love to m e;
N ot hot nor cold you ’re come,
B u t lukewarm here you all appear—
** L e t me be saved,” you cry—
I care not "who blasphemes bis N a m e ,'
I f I am called on nigh,
W ith him to go, the world below
_ M ay all refuse his Love.
This is your lukewarm hearts I know;
For so ytour hearts I II prove.
T h e Jews may stand in every land, 4
A n d Gentiles mock the sam e;
I f you are sav’d from misery,
Y o u don’t regard my feme,
How it do stand in every Land—
Just like this W om an here,
Disgrac’d with lies, by hell’s command,
Against her men appear,
A n d just the saipe they mock m y N am e,
B y Satan's artful bandi
A WARNING TO THE .WORLD.
Digitized by Google
A WARNING TO THE WORLD. 85
A nd yet you do not wish his fell,
But sooner let him stand,
For to mock on as he hath done,
M v honour for to blast*,
M y Bible you’ll not think upon,
. T h a t now it cannot last,
1 tell you long, the time is come,
My*honour I'll m aintain;
A n d brini* m y Kingdom down to men.
T h e y shall not pray in vain.
T h e Power they’ll see shallbe in me
T o chain the rebel down.
T h a t works in man such infamy
A s in all lands abounds.
Here is the end of the Explanation of the Mar­
riage of the Lamb ; and I must beg my readers to
weigh deeply what they are making qf the Devil,
that place my writings to him.
T H E VISION O F TH E SHIP.
‘Thursday, December the .15th\ 1803.
A T half past eleven o’clock in the morning,
Joseph Prescot, sitting at work, had the following
Vision. H e beheld a large ship apparently at an­
chor, the deck covered witli people. On the stern
was the word f a i t h painted; the land nearest to
the ship appeared like a rock, on which was a great
number of people, and an angel standing near the
edge with a glass in his hand : he seemed as if let­
ting the people look through it. Over those persons
was an angel blowing a trumpet, and some of them
looking up at him. Towards the top was a Being
like our Saviour, encircled by a splendid ligh t; at a
distance over the people were dark black clouds
rolling like smoke. On the other side of the water
there was a great brightness, as if the sun shone
with splendor; on which side he saw many people,
but from the distance they appeared small; near
the water, on the same side, there was a number of
angels in white; on this side was another angel on a
cloud,apparently conveying the people from the rock
to the ship, who was arrayed in various colours. The
Digitized by L , o o Q l e
angel on the cloud returned twice to fetch more.
There was a stone of irregular shape, some distance
from the people, on the neares): side, on which, in
large letters, Were these words— the rock of a g e s.
The explanation of this vision was given to m e,
with these Scriptures:
2 Esdras, vii. chapter, 26th and-27th verses :—
Behold the time shall come, that these tokens which
' I have told thee shall come to pass, and the Bride
shall appear, and she coming forth shall be seen,
that now is withdrawn from the* earth. And who­
soever is delivered from the foresaid evils shall see
•my wonders.
The cxixth Psalm, ISth verse Open thou
mine eyes, that I may behold the wondrous things
of thy law.
The-Lth chapter of Isaiah, yth verse For the
Lord God will help me ; therefore shall I not be
confounded : therefore have I set my face like a
Bint, and I know that I shall not be ashamed.
The Li^th chapter of Isaiah, l'ith verse :— I,
even I, am he that comforteth you : who art thou,
that thou shouldest be afraid of a man that shall
‘ die, and of the son of man which shall be made afs
grass.
The xvth chapter df 2d Esdras, from the 1st to
the end of the tiih verse Behold, speak thou in
the ears of my people the words of prophecy, &c.
The xvith of 2d Esdras, 73d verse Then shall
they be known, who are my chosen; and they shall
be tried as gold in the fire.
The xvth chapter of 2d Esdras, the 21st verse :—
Like as they do yet this day unto my chosen, so will
1 do also, and recompense in their bosom. Thus
saitl) the Lord God.
Here begins the explanation of the Vision :
“ The Rock is the Rock of Ages, that stands firm
on the dark cloud for man; on the dark cloud that
'8 6 A WARNING tO THE WORLD.
Digitized by b o o g i e
came to roan in the Fall, that Rock was fixed
foe man; and that Rock, was fixed again for man,
in the type of Moses, when he was warned to call:
the children of Israel from the hand of Pharoah ;
they were preserved and Pharoah destroyed-. Now
mark the Scriptures, of the Bride that shall appear,
that is now withdrawn from the earth. Now I tell
thee, the Bride that is there mentioned, as with­
drawn from the earth, but is to appear, is the Spirit
that shall appear in the last days, to shew the Pro­
mise that was madeAp Eve : for though she is with­
drawn from the earro, and no man thought of the
Promise that was made to her; yet in the last days
they were to appear, and now they shall be seen
plain to all true believers ; for whosoever is de-'
livered from the evil of sin and the power of the
Devil will see all the wonders that 1 promised to the
Bride in the Creation ; and whether they are living,
or whether they die before the time, they will then
come forth and be with m e, when I come to execute
my decrees. Now mark, the Ship is the token of
the S e a ; and know how I told thee the type o f
Moses and the children of Israel, was a type of the
last days of Satan's destruction, and man’s preserva­
tion ; then as the type of Moses, see the ship and
the sea before thee, and the angel leading them to
the ship out of the dark clouds they were in, in the
land o f Egypt, and my power standing over them
in a bright cloud to destroy their enemies, when my
servant and angels had called away my people Israel.
Now I tell thee, the. enemies are those that have
heads without bodies, treading down my people as
Pharoah trod down the children of Israel. But mark
the one hath no feet, to stand on, but the other as '
men all ready to flee, and the ship is ready to receive
them. Now. thou sayest in thy heart,*they had no
ships, only the open sea; but the type of the G os­
pel must now join with the type of the Law : and,
as I worked miracles on the seas, by dividing it
A WARNING TO THE WORLD. $ 7
Digitized by G o o g l e
for the children of Israel to pass through, so I work­
ed miracles on the seas to come to the ship, which
gave Peter faith to launch into the great deep when
he saw me walking on the seas
8 8 ' A WARNING TO THE WORLD.
So now the deep for all is near:
A Peter s faith must now appear,
For all ta launch into the deep;
And mark the ship stands on the brink?
And on the brink for all 'tis come:
A ship foretells you news unknown,
From distant nations to appear.
And first they launch, I say, for war j
But a$ my angels guide the w ay£
The distant nations must not stay
When I do call them from afar,
Behold the angel that stands there,
To have the trumpet in his hand,
The rolling clouds, vou there command.
How in the cloud, the angel's plac'd,
And under that the light doth burst,
The every darkness to tread down:
For deep this Vision now is found,
My people first to call away,
A ship foretells you cannot stay;
Because a flight must sure be near,
Mark how the ship stands waiting there,
To have the people for to come,
And launch into the deep by man;
Because the seas you know are deep, v
And there you may behold the ship,
And there my footsteps all are hid
On the great ocean wide and deep.
Unfathom'd deep are my decrees,
Wide as the ocean are my ways,
Whose depth and breadth no man doth know.
It is by ships that you must go.
If you will search the ocean'wide;
And so mv words must be applied;
You see the seas, to stand on shore,
Amazing wide, but see no more;
Because'the end you cannot see,
For distant lands conceal'd they be,
That you cannot discern them near,
Till on the seas you do appear,
And venture on the raging deep,
The ocean wide for to findout
And so are all my ways for man,
The depth and breadth you can't command,
Without you launch into the deep,
My every footsteps to find out;
And then the ship you all may see,
. How it is waiting now for ve.
But this thou dost not understand:
Digitized by L . o o Q l e
A WASHING TO TRB WOSLD't 89
The ship must be the faith of man,
To launch into my Bible deep;
And then you'll see how all must sink,
That will not come this way by faith;
And mark my Bible what it saith.
But now my chosen"they shall know.
Who Inf faith are launching so;
Thougn as gold they may be tried, —
Yet my woras are deep and wide;
Wide as the oceandoth appear,
Faith will find an anchor nere
For to launch into this ddep t
Know my Bible speaks of it,
How my angel must appear,
Blow the trumps* for men to hear,
While I stand orrthe bright tloud—.
Hear the trumpet then aloud;
All your evils are at hand:
Let my chosen people stand;
Because that I'll deliver them.
You see my angel noV is come
To call my chosen ones away;
Then the black cloud ^fou there may see
Must all be trod beneath my feet
The Vision there for all goes deep:
As I am caUms-them away,
To leave the~ctpud and come to M£;
, That is, to launch into the deep:
Now mark the other side, how bright,
And bright the end will be for all
That do obev this heavenly call;
Because my brightness shall appear
To tread down every cloud that's there.
For so the clouds I'll now tread down;
And then my chosen will be found
In all the brightness that is there.
The other side they must appear;
Because the clouds must pass away,
For perfect as this Vision lays,
I say the end will be to all.
Tire clouds forctel the Devil's fall:
For I, the Moses, nowam come,
To call my children all from him;
And so my chosen need not fear,
Because the other side is clear:
And full as clear, shall't be for man—
These Visions both are joined as one:
As to the tree the one is plac’d,
The T ree of L if e for man to taste;
For so the trumpets do men call—
But mark this Vision, one and all,
How oh the seas 1came to man,
And how the ship I brought to land,
When they were frighted by the storm—
U
Digitized by
t o
The shadows first you don’t discern ;
But these are all outlines to man*
To shewyou all, by seaand land
1 did my wonders all perform;
And so 1 shall bring on the storm, '
I tell you all, by Land and Sea,
But first my friends I’ll call away;
For to the Ship must many come
To spread the truth in Foreign Lend*,
Before I make the final end,
And on the Rocky Hearts descend,
For to dismiss the Clonds for M ia—
The Stone is white that theredoth stands
And yet that Stone it is but small;
Then iy>w[ tell you one and all.
In midst of darkness'tis but few
That will believe this calling true;
Before my angels call eloud.
And men begin to see the douds
M
l WA1NINO * 0 THE WOELH
**
*'//%
**<A
. /T*r/To gather darkness o’er the Land;
*Ai l t -/S/&*. For first these clouds must cease to man*
Before the Power of Hell l shake,
And then my fiiry fiut shall break;
Fo% like the seas 'twill ail come on,
Wave after wave will fidl on maa,
I tell thee perfect like the seas ;
And men mustsee these evil days*
That in the chapters do appear.
These prophecies for ail are near.
As to my chosen they have done*
1 tell thee must turn back again ;
But my beloved need not fear,
For now I’ll folly answer fiere.
Perfect as man did then to me,
j _ IVhen 1 expir'd on Calvary;
d ltfiln t *r*4So perfect now I'll do to them
m X t' That caus’d my Death to have it come;
And that is Satanjudg'd by thee.
Then so the end tp him shall be;
For on the clouds I shall ajipe^r,
As perfect as you see ms there
Or yet the,likeness that is plac'd,
ff^rmfm fir Ana from the Psalmjudge thou the rest.
For wondrous things 1 now shall dot
And every soul will find it true,
, ->That I in wonder sitall appear,
And come with t^umph in the air;
^ rV ^ ^ T rrhough there thou seestbut ooealone;
m /vTurayir a shadow understood bv none,
Howsingly them alone I’mseen,
You know-the Type I’ve said to men ;
It was of Moses at the first,
For so the end to all must burst,
And know, to him I came alone,
Digitized by C j O O Q i e
61
The light to him was seen and known;
But thou say’st Moses is not there;
I know thy thoughts, and answer here*
That close to me he did not come* J rcvt'-j M
Although the bush to him was seen.
Tis but the shadow of tne first;
For perfect so the end shall burst;
As Pharoah’s doom did come before,
1 tell you all the end is near:
To shew you all the final end,
A likeness there was my intend.
As Israel then was calledaway*
Just so the end it now wiHbe;
My chosen 1shall call to go*
As I have said before; N
And if I warn my people so*
The famine win be here.
For different ways, to thee 1say*
The ship is plac’d for mad;
When I’ve destroy’d the enemy,
They *
1
1see the promis'd Lend;
And then the Vision will be plain*
I tell thee, seen by all;
The promis’d Land for man I’ll gain*
And they shall knowtheir calL
To distant Lands, l say to man*
My Chosen they must go*
Jerusalem’s lowwalls to build,
And they will find it true,
That Light in Darkness will be seen
As it doth there appear;
And they that do the Tight discern
Will to the Ship repair.
For I shall call them so away*
The promis'd Land to see;
And as you see the perfect day*
So bright 1 say ’twill be.
Outof the darkness men I caH*
And bring them to the light;
This Vision must be known to all;
£ shews you every sight*
How on the other side ’tis seen*
And Jacob’s Ladder see;
I tell thee it is a Type to men*
How alltbc end will be.
Bright as the other side appears*
So bright 'twill end for man*
When 1 do come to make all clear*
And shew the promis’d Land.
Because my Land I say shall stand*
As it doth there appear,
Wnen I my people have redeem’d,
, And darkness conquer’d here >
That is his power fortotread down*
And down 1 say’t shall coma.
M 2
A WABNIKC TO THE WORLDS
Digitized by.Google
Jo*/ftwr
My angel's trumpet it shall sound*
And then behold the man,
That nowisris’n abovethe clouds,
In brightness to appear:
Though on the Cross I once did hang f
But now I tell thee here,
I'll come again and will be seen
In glory bright to shine;
And underneath my feet Fit tread
The darkness for mankind;
And then the Light they all will see,
As it doth there appear:
This Vision isaType forall
To see the other clear;
Because I'm come, in this ’tisseen,
In brightness to appear,
The every darkness to tread down.
And shew my angel there,
To blow the trumpet then for all;
And there the ship you ice,
How men are plac'd to hear their call.
And Peter's Faith must be
To launch into the every deep,
That I have plac'd before,
And if my words you all do keep,
I'll bring you safe on shore.
For I am with you to the end,
And now the end you'll see,
I f you will launch into the deep,
And boldly come to Mg.
Peep is my Word that is on record.
And deep my promise stands,
And deep my Bible all is plac'd,
If you can it command.
Then you'll not fear the waves are beret
I say the waves pf men;
Because my Bible will you bear
With all for to contend:
That I must come again to man.
In glory bright to shine,
And claim theHeathcns and all lands,
I tell you, to be mine.
For to the Seas I’ve plac'd my Word#
And there the depth you'U see;
For on it came your dying L ord
In wonders judg’d by he,
That is Peter there he did appear
To launch into the deep $
But when the waves began to flow,
Then Peter's faith did sink;
But then I came to him, ’twas known,
And sav’d him from all harm;
And now the ship to you is seep,
T l w cap you fear the storm \
A WARWIH0 TO THE W0RL1K
Digitized by Google
▲' WARNING TO THE WORLD* 98
Because that there I do appear,
As oo the waves at first;
And all shall find I’m coming near.
For sothe end will burst
So Peters here let all appear,
' And launch into my Word,
That with the Seas I’ve now compar'd,
And then you'll find vour L ord
W iH so appear, my Word will bear
To keep you in the end ;
Unfathpm'a deep my footsteps are
Thiit no man out can find,
Unless vou launch into the deep
Of all I've said before,
And then I say, you need not sink,
My Words will bear you here.
For on the Seas I say I'll come
To prove my every Word;
Because that there'my steps arc hid,
And men know not their Lord.
For in my Bibleail do sink,
As Peter did before;
But now you'll find me on the brink,
To bring you safe on shore.
So where isFaith you need not doubt
If you your L ord can see,
That in the depth of all my Words
I am coming now to ye;
For in the depth of all my Words
I now to man appear;
And if a Peter’s Faith you've got
And find a Peter s fear,
You all shall find me in the deep
To brim? you safe on shore.
A Peter’s Faith shall never sink,
Though men may make him fear;
The boisterous waves may come in map,
Where Satan swells the tide;
That is I mean the hearts of men,
For so *tis here applied.
And Satan’s rasjedoth swell
As furious as the boisterous waves,
The seas resemble hell,
When all his angry waves aHse,
For Satan is the same;
And therefore men must now grow wise,
If they will know my Name;
That on the Seas I must appear
For to fulfil my Word, 1
And tell believers not to fear.
For they shall find their L ord 9
Now in the storm to keep from harm, / c
*^C
For boisterous waves thev’Usee; ^ : ^.«***<_
Because I know the rage or Hell
Digitized b y C j O O ^ l C
A WARIfIHO TO TH* VTOBlrlfe
No other way, to thee I say,
He can his rage inveat$
As he can't make thee diaobey,
Now man is his intent
To swell with pride on every side*
And toss their mountains high,
Till on the Seas 1 do appear*.
I know a Peter's cry
Will be in thee; thy heart I see,
Like Peter it will sink,
When thou dost launch into the Sens,
For now thou 'rt near the brink
1say of all to bear thy call.
And prove thy Lord thou w t:
*
*It is his Voice, I tell them all,
That now doth visit me."
tu t men will say another way*
My Voice cannot be here;
There’ssome infusion in the way,
And thou ’It begin to fear,
That now like man I may become
To leave thee in the dark;
But mark the Rock that there doth stand*
Then who can miss the mark:
That in the mysteriesof the Fall
The Rock did then appear;
And l did die to ransom all,
And now the Light see clear.
•
For now I tell thee, as deep as the ocean is hid
from man, so deep are my words and ways hid from
man's understanding; and as wide as the ocean is
from shore to shore, so wide are my ways from the
ways of men, and my thoughts from their thoughts
of the Creation, and of man's Redemption; for the
depth of my decrees no man ever understood.”
Since my book was pot into the printer’s hands,
the 25th April, I had two Newspapers brought to
me on the 30th, which I am ordered to have
copied out and put in print, that the world may
judge for themselves, how the signs of dangers
//*A r ^ were placed from the weather.— I shall give the ex-
^ o planalion that was given to me from the Newspa-
r / _ - pers; but first I must call my readers to the 15 and
pages of the Sealed Prophecies, printed in 1803,
'/^u-Jiow the mark was set in the dark for man. But that
type is not yet ended; for there ate many marks
Digitized by Google
that are hid in the dark from man ; for as they love
to be in the dark, in the dark they shall go. But
they that wish to come to the light, to the light let
them com e; and they shall know the marks that
were set from the weather, and the shadows of this
year. For as the muddy water was seen to thee, that
came down as a hood .after thou hadst opened thy
Prayer Book to the Psalms and the Prayers on the
Seas, thou sawest the hoods come down the day
that alludes to A pril; and so the dangers must come
from the weather, as the type stood from the wea­
ther. Therefore I told thee, that dangers were began,
whatever men discerned; and every shadow of what
I said would appear has begun. Now' mark my
strict command to thee to hare the words of the
Newspapers'copied out, and put in print in thy
Book; therefore I ordered thee to begin thy Book
before the news arrived, that the unbelieving world
plight know thou walkest by faith and not by sight
andjjut in print that every shadow shall take place
this year.- Before the news came to thee,
the signs were set of the weather for land and sea;
they began to tumble down by the weather; so
land and sea sustain the loss. But I know the many
sudden deaths that have happened, and the sickness,
thou art daily hearing of, is unnoticed by the world,
as they say “ this is common so they roust wait
until they see the deaths do follow more than corn-
mop. Then the laying may lay it to heart; for all
men must know the events o f this year were foretold
from the weather; and from the weather let all
inen look for the effects. ' So those that have eyes
to see may see; and they that hare hearts to under-
1 stand, let them understand, that the truth stands
before them; for I now tell thee, if men are not
brought in by Faith, seeing and believing from the
truth standing before them, they will all fall.back;
and all the pains thou hast taken, .in sealing the peo­
ple, will be labour lost, and thou wilt spend thy
A WARNING TO TKE WORLD. Q&
Digitized by G o o g l e
0 A WARNING TO THE WORLD.
time to waste. Therefore I have now given vtf
strict command, that no one shall have a Seal from
thee who hath not read m y Words, which are given ta
thee ; and let them judge for themselves. I hare
already told thee, and I now tell thee again, it is to
try the hearts of men, and to prove the wisdom o f
men, whether they can see the justice of my ways
and my decrees; in Creation and Preservation,that I
have ordered all to be put in print> for meh to
search the Scriptures, and see the truth of my B i-
ble, and. the depth of my wisdom in all things, that
1 know men have taken in question, and blame theic
M a k b r to this day, as Adam did. Therefore I am
come in the S p i b i t to throw open my Bible unto
all men that will hear and judge for themselves.
But they that will not judge for themselves shall
now be judged of the L o r d . But I shall reason
with man in the Spirit, that will now reason with
m e , by bringing forth arguments, and shewing
their strong reasons wherein they condemn this* wis­
dom as not consistent with the wisdom of a G o d . But
he that doth not read to judge for himself, can bring
forth no arguments at a ll; then they cannot judge
for themselves, and they stand condemned to be
judged of the L o r d , that I have called and no man
answered, then they shall call and I will not answer.”
Here I shall insert the words of the Newspapers:
An Extract from the Morning Chronicle,
April 28th, 1804.
** W e are sorry to find that the disaster, which has be­
fallen the West India Fleet, that lately sailed from Cork,
on the Coast of Portugal, is more considerable than was
at first supposed. No less than 37 are upon Lloyd’s Book’s,
besides the Apollo Frigate; and it is feared that there are
a few more, the names of which are not yet ascertained.
The crews of several have perished : the particulars may
be expected by the Lisbon Mail, which has arrived, but
the Letters, not yet delivered.
Digitized by G o o g l e
Another Extract from the Morning. Chronicle,.
April 30, 1804.
Triday arrived at Falmouth,: the Whlsinghairt Packet'
from Lisbon, and brings farther particulars- of the heavy
Idss which the W est India Merchants have sustained by the
stbrafof the sd-ihst. which drove their fleet upon the Por­
tuguese coast, bettreen Cape Matldeigo and Aveiro.
What btttinesffthey bad in tbjp latitude, vrill, it1iff said,
become » subject of enquiry. O f 68> vessels, o f which
the convoy consisted, dot more than SO are yet known to
have escaped'; these were seen steering after the tempest
had subsided for the Westward, under the protection of
the CarVSfort'. The rest are supposed to have perished
altogetHer, in conjunction1with the*Apollo Frigate, the
commander of Which, captainDixon, and all the company
onboard! consisting; of a large-body of soldiers, were tox
tally lost, excepting abouta hundred of the crew, which
were fortunate enough to escape.
Norn I musc call my- readers'to the pages hereafter
mentioned1ofm y Sealed* Prophecies-; and the lend-,
marks in my fifth Book, at:die bottomof page-196:
The path id strait, the ocean now is wide,
Arid if yon wish to reaeh your native shore,
See every landmark:that is plac'd before*
And then safe harbours you will surely gain:
Deep is this parable I ’give to men.
Now Tmust direct my readers to refer to die places
ill my Books, as here put down. The first book,,
page IS.— Second book, pages 85, 92, and 94.—
Third book, pages 83, 85, 102, and 108.— Fourth
book, pages, 150,166, 174, 181, and 191.
Then I must- refer my. readers to the second Book
of Letters,, page 68 ; and to read the letter through.
Then to the 113th page of the Disputes with the
Powers of Darkness.— “ I have promised three
years of good’ harvests,, if I find friends to carry on
my work ; and if- they will not draw back,. I-shall
not draw back.” ' Then turn to the 125th page of
the same book.
Now I shall give the answer of the Spirit to these
pages.
▲ WAHimro TO' Th« wonts. Qf
N
Digitized by Google
Q8 a wAnirme to t h i wqrlb.
“ I now answer thee, the Promise made in the
18th page must first be fulfilled o f the three years
of plenty, before the judgments ean take place; for,
as men did not draw back, I could not draw back
from my Promise.—-But now come to the letter sent
to Foley, how the Signs of Judgments were
set from the weather at thy father’s death; and
know, I told thee, in the 1800, I should set the
Signs three years for Blessings; and then, if unbelief
abounded in the fourth year of the century, f should
set them for Judgments. And now the fourth year
is com e; and the Signs of Judgments are set
from the weather ; and the shadow of dangers have
come from the weather on the seas, when it-came
to March and April. Now mark the letter that was
sent to Foley *. Now compare the Signs set o f
the weather with the shadows that have began from
the weather, and with thy starting friends, that I
compared with the starting horse, which thou didst
ride on : for there are thousands like that horse, that
will not go one step, without starting or going back­
ward, as the horse did, any longer than as the path
appears plain and straight before them. Now this
truth is plain in man, as I then told th e e ;
therefore,, to set the type to man, I ordered thee to
go through thy journey with that starting horse,
to shew thee what starting friends thou wouldest
have. But I now tell thee, all such will turn back
as empty as the horse did. And now let all men
judge for themselves, from the type of the weather,'
and thy friends, and compare it with that letter. So
let all this be compared together, and then he that
can answer it let him appear; but not appear to
answer as the ignorant sons of men have already-
answered, it is from the Devil, because they be­
lieve it so. But let men know it is impossible for
every man’s belief to be right; therefore they must
prove it froni the Devil if they can by the Scrip*
• Page68 of the Sccoud Qookof Letter*) printed in 1802. •
Digitized by Google
tu rn . If they profess to prove it from him,
thine is no other way that men must argue; neither
letmen boast, as the ignorant sons of men'have
already boasted; the Bible hath this* meaning or that
meaning, as they have placed it. Far that is
another thing impossible, to place the Bible to the
wisdom of men for the wisdom of men hath placed
it so many ways, that it is impossible for the
wisdom of men to make my Bible true. So men’s
belief of the Scriptures is no argument for men to
plead by, any more than the. belief of the Jews,
the way that they believed it. Yet as their faith is
it will happen unto diem for their Redemption,
but they must first own the truth of t h e ir w o r d s —
my Bipod hath been ppon them and their children;
and my Judgments have, followed them. Then they
shall see the Promises made to the Prophets, when
they look on hiss whom they have crucified ?
thca cometh their Redemption. But one Prophecy
mostbe fulfilled before the other can take place:
They must first confess they hid their faces from
he : I was despised, and they esteemed m b n ot; I
boretheir griefs, and carried their sorrows ; yet they
did not esteem m b , though I was wounded for their
transgressions, and bruised for their iniquities. Then
by my stripes they shall be healed, when they ac­
knowledge like sheep they have all gone astray:
thenshall I see the travail of my Soul and be satisfi­
ed. But this chapter * must be fulfilled before the
other Promises can take place for the Jews. Then
cometh the fulfilment of the others. Mark the
chapters that follow ; so let the Jews fulfil the one
before they look for the fulfilment of the other ; for
Iwill never fulfil my Promises to them, before my
Words are fulfilled by them. And this is for the
Jews, as they plead one Promise without the ful­
filment of the other; and so their judgment would
nuke my Bible false. And now I shall come to the.
Gentiles, whose wisdom makes my Bible false the
• Isaiah U II chapter. r /V ?
A WARKIN0 TO THR VfQRM).
Digitized by Google
jo o a w/aannf# frit fcfesi.fi,
same. So let ho man btwfct of explaining rfiy BiUfe
without he can moke it true, whfefc is?imposriblefot*
the judgment of naan* to do. But now I tell thee f
haVe begun,' and i will go on tiA I hare made all’tUy
Bible true, which is impossible for man to'd# b y
arguments. Therefore men- must plehd froth thy
Writings, how such troths have hafpperied';; hour
such mysteries were brought round; now such1
tides'
and .shadows were placed in sueft mariner'; and* hour
in years they were brought round to- be' fulfilled1
,
either from the Dfevil, or ftOm any1
iUfuridn- (hat* did-
not come from the infusion of my Spirit. Let this
be answered by the wiseand tarried, how they would
prove it from the D evil; or how they would prove
it from any Spirit: but from M s, the Uivin g L ord-,
every soul shall know thy Writings are; so let them
weigh the whole together with every page that I:have
■ mentioned: and here thy book endeth, with-thiscom­
mand to the Shepherds.— “ The bloodof the nation is
on the heads of the Shepherds, if they do not search'
into every truth ; and the sheep that perish1m theii'
sins, their blood will I require at the Shepherds?
bands, if the Shepherds are not faithful.”
- W hen I had written these words I was ordered
to open my Bible. It was in the Wisdohvof Solo­
mon, vi. chap, and the fourth verse I was or­
dered to pen— “ Because being ministers of his
Kingdom,, ye have not judged aright, nor kept die
law, nor walked after the council of God.”
, Here I have feithfully given to the world the
w o r d s o t t h r L ord, as delivered torntf; and:l am-
ready to answer to .the world for every frutlrT'hsfte;
here asserted. But the names' of the clergy I-should
not have put in print, if I had not been strictly Under-"
ed to it. So I conclude with the words of St. Pfeter^**
WHO OUGHT WE TO OBBV, GOD OR MAH, JUDGE YB,
* * /;
London, May 10Ik, 1801. JOANNA SoCFTHCOTT.
E ighteen i W ]
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
