{"name":"A Dispute Between The Woman And The Powers Of Darkness","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1813__southcott___a_dispute_between_the_woman_and_the_powers_of_darkness.pdf","mytitle":"A Dispute Between The Woman And The Powers Of Darkness","mylang":"de"}
A
#
DISPUTE
BETWEEN TH®
« .
"Woman and the P6wers of Darkness.
A u g u s t 3, 1802.
TH IS book may appear strange to some of my
readers, to say, it is a Dispute between me and the'
Powers of Darkness. Though some may marvel,
as they have already done, when I said the Lord
would give liberty to Satan to come and offer what­
ever arguments he had to plead against the justice of
his sentence, as being bound not to tempt any that
were sealed j and l was ordered to pen his words,
whatever blasphemy hemightspeak against the Lordg,
and the justice of his sentence.} for the Lord said I
should not do as I did in 1792—refuse to write his
.blasphemy, out of a wrong zeal for religion; because
I thought his words were ton shocking to pen: but
now I was commanded to banish these rears; because
it would make religion become sinful. Therefore I was
ordered to pen every word perfectly which he uttered*
a
TheSecond Edition, printed by Merchant and Golabin, 1, Ingram-Court, to *
f
don, in January, 1815,from the First Edition, printed in 1802,
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
The Powers of Darkness broke in upon me
four days in the house where I was then sojourning;
I was ordered to leave that house the second day o f
August, and go to a place prepared for me, alone by
myself. Some disputed with me, saying, they could
not believf it was the command of the Lord that I
should pen the words of the Devil, after I had been
writing by the Spirit of the Lord. This ap­
peared to them contrary to reason ; but 1 was an­
swered by the Spirit of the Lord, that if I refused
to obey, what I had already done was to no purpose.
The Lord himself contended with Satan about
J o b , and our Saviour suffered himself to be tempt­
ed forty days by the devil, and disputed with him.
And shall the creature be more holy than his Crea­
tor ? Shall man be more holy than his God ? If the
Lord has been contending with Satan for man near
six thousand years, should I be too holy to contend
with the devil, for my Maker, seven days? 'If so,
we must all perish. For we must tight and overcome,
that We may have part in the Tree of Life. For as
the dispute began with the devil and the woman, it
must end with the devil and the woman : and the
command was given to me that which ever stood
out to the end should conquer. If my words stood
list, and I held out with arguments, in stedfast faith,
against the devil for seven days, then the Woman
should befree and Satan shouldJail. But if I gave
up to the devil, and Satan conquered in the seven
days, then Satan’s kingdom-must stand, and the wo­
man must fall. So seven days were to end the dis­
pute between the woman and Satan; and men were
then to judge what a powerful adversary the woman
had to contend with. *But I was promised, that the
Lord would be with me, by day and by night j that,
be would not leave me, nor forsake m e; his right
hand should support m e; and that the Powers of
Darkness should not be permitted to appear visibly
Digitized by Google
S ' •
whilst I was alone. For he that hath said to .
the proud waves of the sea, hitherto shall ye go and "
no farther, had set bounds for Satan to go as far as
he would in temptatiens, but no farther; and that
he should not appear, or hurt me, unless I gave up
my faith in the Lord. This, with many strong pro­
mises made to me, 1 read to the three ministers and
other gentlemen, who saw things in a different light,
from those who thought it wrong to contend with the
devil at all. They said, whatever the Lord com­
manded was right; and they had not a doubt but
he would keep me according to his promise; and
they should be in earnest prayer tor me all the time.
All my friends that knew of it said the same. So I
went the second day o f August, accompanied by my
friends, to a place prepared for me, to be alone by
myself; and I was forbidden to see any one for three
days. The third day the ministers were ordered to
come, that if Satan had ought to say for himself in.
person, he might then appear; so they attended, ac­
cording to the directions given ; but Satan did not
appear; and therefore he was afterwards forbidden.
If he would not come boldly before men, he should
not be permitted to come in person before a wo­
man alone. So I had nothing to fear from his ap­
pearance; but was commanded only to write his
words.
N o w ! shall inform my readers what made me
stand out so steadfast and firm in faith against the
devil and all his threatenings. I well knew if my
calling was of God, as I judged it to be, and I had
prophesied in his Name, He would keep me from
the Powers of Darkness according to his word, and
not forsake me in the trying hour. 1 well knew
Satan’s malice was greater than his p o w e r f o r
the power that Is almighty to save, is the Lord
atone. And though I had been foiled in a few.
things, to keep me humble before the Lord, and
tt> try the talents of the learned, that w e mightwalk.
a 8
y
- . • Digitized by Google
by faith and not by sight; for it is said to me in -my
sealed writings—
“ Men’s wisdom high I mean to try,
And all their conduct loo.”
Now if every word was to come in a straight line,
neither men’s wisdom or faith could ever be tried
at all. For the great A line a child could read, and
if my writings had all come in that manner, they
could not have been consistent with the Bible. For
it is written, “ In the latter days, I shall do marvel­
lous things amongst them. The wisdom of the
wise men shall perish, and the understanding of the
prudent men shall be hid.” But was the Lord to put
all his prophesies in a plain line, then he must deal
ungenerously with the Jew s: as Isaiah speaks both of
the first and second coming of Christ, in his Prophe­
sies, without distinguishing one from the other, by
saying which was the first and which was the last. So
these reasons being assigned to me kept me-always
humble before the Lord, in a steady faith, mixed
with fear, and always in prayer, that I might not
be led by any wrong spirit. But now is come the
fiery trial with the devil. I well knew if I was de­
ceived in my writings, as not coming from the Lord,
he must h^vtt forsaken me, and Satan would have
destroyed me as he threatened : and I would sooner
have died than live, to say, the Lord saith, if he had
not spoken, or deceived worthy and good men that
believed in them as coming from the Lord. So I
ran the hazard of my life to know in whom I had
-believed. The world have judged me ;—but they
do not know me }
—I am no impostor to deceive
either God or man. By,my own master I well
knew I mu ;t stand or fall. If the Lord was my
master, I knew .1 should stand : but if Satan had
been my master, as he said, I knew I should fall.
So now I will rejoice-in the God of my salvation,
who hath delivered me out of the mouth of the lion,
4
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
and out of the paw of tthe bear, and I trust he will
deliver me from the uncircumcised in heart, ear,
and life.
So I myself am now the judge;
Men's wisdom is too weak;
If they believe that hell below
Such language e’er could speak
As is in my other books. For now I shall shew you
in this what the language of Hell is, which I was
ordered by the Lord to pen, and put in print:—To
shew'you that the woman mentioned in the^Reve­
lation must tread down Satan under her feet, by
strength of arguments, and by faith in Ch rist J e­
su s, our blessed Lord and Sa v io u r . So let men
read the following book and judge for themselves,
. and I shall judge for myself. The Lord also is my
judge, and is witness against my foes. My readers
must observe, that the seven days’ dispute between
me and Satan, while I was alone, begins as follow :
W hat was said previous to my coming here, you
will have either at the end or this book or in an­
other; as all is ordered to be put in print. That
the last may be first, and the first last. Satan con­
quered the woman at first: but the woman has
conquered him at last.
* 5
Thus begins the Seven Days o f J o a n n a 's Dis­
pute with Sa t a n , when she entered upon
her Private Lodgings.—Monday, August 3,
1802.
Sa t a n begins:
TH Y God is a liar; but mark,—I do not say,the
God of Heaven; for he is not thy God*
Joanna. Who then is my God ? 1 seek to serve
no other God, but the God of Heaven.
Satan’s friend. Call me not Satan; for I am Sa­
tan’s friend. Now. I answer, if thou seekest to serve
Digitized by Google
God, thou must begin a new life; for 1 tell thee thy
spirits are too lively to serve him ; too cheerful; and
thy words are too many to be a servant of the most
high God. For thou knowest it is written, be 'still
and know that la m G o d therefore the angels were
cast out of heaven; because they could not serve
God in such a manner. Satan was a lively, cheerful
spirit, full of innocent mirth, and the Lord could
' not bear i t ; and cast him out of heaven on that
account. So, as thou sayest, Satan’s love is turned
into hatred against God ; as he cast him out of hea­
ven for that. Now, I ask thee, who can 'be always
still? Which thou knowest the Lord hath com­
manded, or thou can&t not clear that text, to say,
God is true, if he has commanded thee otherwise.
So now thou must keep silence, and say no more, if
thou wilt serve the God of heaven. Cut mind, there
are Gods many, and Lords many: but thou sayest,
thou aimest at the God of Heaven. Then 1 tel!
thee, there .thou art deceived, to judge tbou art
serving him. Thy spirit is not one unit like his.
Dost thou not know, when Iris Son was upon the
earth, he was always gloomy and sad ? thou never
heardest, that he enjoyed any comfort, or suffered
his disciples to enjoy any; but to be always sorrow?-
ful; and they died in sorrow, as he did. Now an­
swer me, from what is said, and I wtU answer thee
again ;• and convince thee from scripture, thou art
not serving the God of Heaven.
Joanna. And was that the very reason why Satan
was cast out of heaven, and for no other reason,
hut for being too cheerful a spirit ? How then is it-
written, that all the angelsofthe Lord sing his praises;
and the scriptures command us to serve God with
cheerfulness, and sing his praises with a merry heart ?
And our Saviour commanded us to appear cheerful,
nbt to appear sad-
, as the hypocrites did. We 8ie
to serve the Lord with cheerfulness: for where the
Spirit of God-is, there is liberty. OurSaviour was
Digitized by Google
sorrowful to see what a state ofdestruction Satan liad
brought mankind into. For when he saw Jerusalem
he wept over it, knowing they would bring destruc­
tion on themselves:—and he was come down in love
for men, to suffer for their sakes, and be a judge
for men of all their sorrows. Earthly pleasures were
too low for him—His happiness was in heaven.: And
there he told his disciples their joy should be also.
*
* For at God’s'right hand is fulness of joy, and in
his presence are pleasures for evermore.” So they
cannot always be silent in heaven; neither did the
Lord command them to* be always silent on earth.
For he.commanded his gospel to be preached, and
his'name to run and be glorified. There might J>e
a meaningjn still, and know that I.am God.
But no where hathhe com manded us to keep silence;
ftorftpfy any .plafce in scripture say, that heaven, or
|^ii^]y-m inided people are gloomy, or sad. Hear
yen is a place of,pe^fec^ happiness, and all ate hap­
py that have an inforest1
in Christ. Though sorroW
•may fill our minds sometimes, while we beat* Hid
infirmities of nature ; yet, there is a peace of m ind';
and conscience which the world cannot give 6t take .
Sway., Now wilt thou prove Satan Was- cast out of
heaven for nothing, but being of a cheerful spirit?
Aj^Fthat the heavens always remain in 'silfence ?
P f that, “ Ac still, and know that I amGod, ipetineth 5
plways to keep silence ? . '
' Satan's Friend. Thou fool, what answer hast tftou -•
S
iv.en, .or what inquiry dost thou make? Dost-
iou judge that I am .a liar like unto thyself ?—
j*
J have told thee that was the very reason, and no
other reasons And now I tell thee there is not on? .
whit of the Spirit of. God in thee ; and that every
wiaAmap knmveth. Canst thou be such a fool t6
ju d g ^ » | (jrod of Heaven ever came to thee in this
iamiliarjS^nner ? More familiar than he ever was
,with the angejs ? Thou knowest not God, or hi„s •
^Kays. For his footsteps are,hid in the great dee|^
7
Digitized by Google
and his paths past finding out. No man by search­
ing; can find out God. who can find out the Al­
mighty to perfection ?
Joanna» Then here thou ownest that God is
Almighty ; and that thou wast cast out of Heaven
for being a too cheerful and innocent a spirit. How
came the devil to be so much changed, from an
innocent, cheerful spirit, to a proud, malicious, re­
vengeful spirit, full of deadly poison ? Now an­
swer that,,and tell me what spirit I am of, and Jed
by. For what Satan came out of 'heaven for, the
Lord knoweth; and thou hast not lied unto me,
but unto God, if thou hast lied concerning Satan's
fall.
Satan's Friend, Thou art cOme to the very in­
quiry I wished for to answer. Thou art of the spirit
of fallen angels, who are full of liberty and cheer­
fulness. Do not say, when men commit sih and
cruelty one with the other, it is of the devil that they
are tempted: they are drawn away by their Own
lusts and enticing. But do not charge Satan fool­
ishly, to say, he was the author of all evil. ~
Joanna. To whom must I ascribe evil, when oar
Saviour said, sin was of the devil, and his works
sinhers did do ? Now if Satan be of my spirit, he
will love the Lord with all his heart, and fall down
before the most high God, and love the Lofd Jesus
Christ, and wish to bring all men to the knowledge
and love of God, and to worship at his feet; to con­
fess he is worthy to be loved, worthy to be feared,
worthy to be had in everlasting remembrance.
Satan's Friend. Is this thy spirit ? Then I tell
thee thou art lost for ever. Goa has forsaken thee.
And now I will tell thee the mystery from the Bible:
an evil spirit hath loved thee from thy youth up
to this present day, and finding there was no way
to make access to thy heart, except under the pre­
tence of religion, he began that way; and knowing
from angels, what was coming on—that some new
8
Digitized by Google
things were coming upon the earth, went and ,told
thee of them : and formed himself in’the form of
God’s angels, and took their name. The Lord hath
never spoken by thee. .For as high as the heavens
are from the earth, so are the ways of God from
thy ways, or a word that is in thy writings. Now I
will tell thee the whole truth. The spirit hath car­
ried it too far ;—by Ay sealing up Satan’s destruction,
•a d man’s redemption: and his anger is kindled
against thee and him. Now, to pacify that anger,and
throw open the veil, I will tell thee the truth from
a pitiable. Thou art like the woman, that married
in a mask, both she and her husband; but when
the mask was taken off, she found her mistake; and
-was forced-to-live with her husband, though she did
-pot love him: and so it is with thee. For thou wilt
«aoon find thou art Ailed like her. NoW if thou freely
-consentest to renounce all thy writings,*and burn all
thy writings and sealed books, and confess to the
world thou hast found out the deceit. Satan has pro-
mised to forgive thee, and will be thy friend, aud soon -
'find a way to clear thy character, and-make thy
name shine. For all men will praise thy wisdom
and prudence, to own the truth when thou knowest
i t : and as thou-lovest writing, I will make thee the .
first writer in the world; ana where thou hast one %
friend, I will gain- thee one thousand. Now, dost
thou hot know many have had thousands of pounds \
for being clever in writing and singing, and get rich .
thereby, and caressed in the first companies^ and "
their books sell faster than they could write tlienv;
while thine lie by; and thou hast but a few friends .
to keep thee alive ? Now as. thou art jealous for
tfafiHlriaaur, I will clear that also, and make their
li un>hiifhir above every name, and shew they were
Wise, prhdentm en: while they judged it of God,
-they caressed it as of G od: but whenthe mask was
;taken off, that it was an evil spirit, they despised the
^writings, and joined with thee to burn them. / :
9
Digitized by Google
Joanna.' Thou fool! Suppose the words^tboa Jjght
spoken be true: let the spirit look toth&t,^r>4aft~
swer to Satan for what he has done, Ihud
to do with this deception; neithej copy I hnffe
thought any of Satan’s friends were #0. much hj«
enemies, as to come against him ; hut if they- harft,
let them answer to Satan, and not me. If SgtaO is
divided against himself, how then will his.kingdom
stand? But what use is burning i>fthem, if they stse
not from the Lord ? They cannot ’
hurt Satan, Or has
friends. For what is not of God will- come to no­
thing. So I will not burn them ,,nor destroy them,
till I am convinced they are not from the Lord. But
I would not keep any thing that is from the devil,
unless it was to discover his arts. And now if Sa­
tan’s friends have been such fools, and Satan’s king­
dom is divided against himself, it cannot stand: so
it shall abide to make it known. So I will not de­
stroy the writings, unless the Lord convinces me
they are not of God, and supports no more troths to
dural them. Then they will fall of themselves. But
how came Satan’s angels to be such fools, to assume
the. name of the most high God, and lie so in his
•name ? Poor, proud, boasting fools! For so I must
call them, if the words delivered to me in the last
speech of Satan’s friend be t r u e t h a t I have
followed their directions. I will not follow them
now, to burn them ; for 1 will not please Satan so
well, or any of his friends.
Satan's Friend. Then now I will answer; thou
wilt never see another day. The spirit tba£ loved
thee hath deceived thee and that Was Fottart, who
thou knowest told thee, if thou wouldest not have
him, he should die for thy sake; and a few yeasjs
after he did die; and it is his -spirit that hath in­
tercourse with tby spirit. And this is live mysteoy
thou wast to know here. So he influenped thee
here by arts, that none might see thy unhappy e n d ;
and prevented the devil from tearing thee in pi&ces
10
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
'1,1
there t and, it is Bmcc’s husband hath intercourse
with her spirit to draw her off from so wrong a
faith i and dost thou not see this clear ? Then thou
must be a fool j—and see what a glorious harvest is
before tbee. So burn thy writings, confess thy faults,
and burn thy boohs; and publish to the world what
I have told tbee,—they are hot from the Lord;
and I will supply thee with money, and make thy
yvisdonj shine another way. But ifthou wilt not sign
with thine own hapd, thou art clearly convinced that
what I told thee is .true, I will come with legions of
spirits this night, and tear thee in p i e c e s f o r I tell
thee Satan is angry: the jfist is carried too fan
Joanna* ■
Shall I 6ign my name to a lie ? Ia m
nqt convinced one word is true, that thou hast told
me. Follart b4d never wisdom to invent such
writings, or bring round such mysteries. So 1 know
that is a lie: but why art thou so eager to have rnp
burn them, if they are not of God? This makes me
believe they are from the true and living Lord; -and
I will not burn them, nor destroy them. I will
trust in the God of my salvation, who I know will
not give Satan such power over me. If I had been
wrong, the Lord would have convinced me before,
and not have suffered a wrong spirit to have led.mu
for ten years astray, when he knew my heart, and
soul trusted in .bis promises throughout the Bible,
to protect those who trust in him ; and in him have
I trusted, that he will never let me be put to con­
fusion. The Lord is my strong tower, and the
rock of my defence;—of whom shall I be afraid ?
He will make me to sleep in safety; I will not
fear the arts of hell; for one thing, contradicts
another.
Solan. Don’t say any more of one thing’s contra­
dicting another; for that is like thy writings, and the
Bible: foil of contradictions throughout.
Joanna. Then as they are alike, I will believe
in both alike—and trust in the unbounded mercies
Digitized by Google
of God, who will make every crooked path straight
before me.
Satan. What hast thou conquered ia ? Thou art
a liar.
Joanna. In not obeying one command of the
devil; and trusting in the God of my salvation,
who is able to keep me from the Powers of Dark­
ness.
Satan. Thy God is a damn’d liar. He told thee
he would let loose Satan upon thee; and he hath
not. It is but his friends who are come. Thou
hast not heard the voice of Satan yet: and he was
allowed seven days.
Joanna. What a wretched hardened spirit could
speak that word, if not (he devil ? If Satan is not
let loose, his friends are, and that is the same. So
do not say the Lord is a liarj for he is the God of
truth.
Satan. God is a liar; for he had deceived him,
and all mankind.
Joanna. How hath the Lord deceived thee, O
Satan ! Man is to answer for himself, whether the
Lord hath deceived those that have trusted in him.
Answer thou for thyself;—and I will for the Lord.
He is a just, wise, holy, and merciful G od; and if
lie ever deceives man, it is to be better than bis
promise: for I will venture my whole soul upon the
faithfulness and goodness of God.
Satan. I know what thou wantest,—to see some
wondrous things from the devil,against the ministers
come, but I shall foil thee there.
Joanna. It is happy for me-to have thy tongue
silent; and confess thou hast nought to say for thy­
self, when thou wast at liberty to say any thing fot
thyself, if the Lord had not dealt justly with
thee, to set bounds for thee, as he did for m an:
and if thou breakest thy bounds, tliou must be
cast, as man was cast, with thy crown downward.
Thus tbou art at liberty to answer for thyself.-—
12
Digitized by
b
yGoogle
V
M
But as thou threatenest me, to give up my hope and
strong hold in the promises of God ; do answer, if
thou art not justly cast: For I now believe, by
the manner in which it is spoken, by the spirits be­
fore, my writings are firmly from the Lord, and he
wilt fulfil his promise to me. Thou wast bound,
O Satan! no more to tempt the servants of the
Lord, who were sealed; so now, my God, my trust
is in thee, to cast the Powers of Darkness, who
have brought so many things against thee, O my
G o d !
Satan. Thou temptest the devil, and not the de­
vil thee. What have I said against the Lord ? Read
it back to me; I want to know what has been said.
Joanna. I am ordered not to read it back before
the ministers come; and the Lord knoweth from
whence all comes, either from the devil, or some of
his friends. The Lord is witness between me and
them.
Satan. 1 ask thee what God thine is ? Who told
thee that Satan would come upon thee two days,
as lie did on Field for two hours; and his con­
vulsions would come on thee as fast as her fits
did ? Now what a lie! I have not come fast on
thee at all.
Joanna. Then do not make them true; but
leave.in this one day, and so give it up. Thou
h^st told nought but lies; and confess thou art
justly cast. And I have a right to claim the pro­
mise of God, made in the Bible, and to me in mv
writings.
. Satan. And wilt thou have it, that thy writings
are from the Lord ? and dost thou claim that pro­
mise?
Joanna. Yes! I do believe them to be from
the Lord: and I have a right to claim the promise'
the Lord hath made me.
Satan. Now, if this is what will be said from
my silence, I may as well break in as not; for
m
Digitized by Google
I
I find if I mock these fools by keeping back* it will
not do. Thou wilt not be convinced if I do not
come forward ; so do not blame me if I come and
tear thee in pieces before the morning. It is the
last word of thy friend that will call me forward;
because I find he has a hole to break out there.
Joanna. I do not believe the Lord will suffer
Satan to tear me to pieces; for he hath promised
to keep me from his power, that he shall not hurt
me any farther than by temptations; and with the
temptations make a way for my escape. I will trust •
in the God of my salvation:—He is the rock of my
defence; of whom then shall I be afraid ?
Satan. I will tell thee before the morning* and
fool with thee no longer. But now I will come to
the purpose, to convince thee thy writings are not
of G od; and if thou wilt give them up, I will leave
thee, and not hurt thee; but if thou wilt not break
the sealed book in pieces, and destroy all that is
sealed against the devil, I will destroy thee. Tbou
sayest the hearts of all men are in the hands of the
Lord; but thou shalt find they are in my hands;
for’see how many women have pleased m e: 1 have
worked in the hearts of men to enrich them.
Then now thou knowest thou art commanded to
• bear me till midnight; and till midnight I shall
keep, thee up; for I see through thee and thy
frigiifjs, what thdu sayest to thyself; Satan was
backward of answers, and so thou thoughtest to
have told them thou hadst foiled him by thy words.
I shall now speak fast enough for thee. Is thy
back brass and thy sinews iron, that thou canst
contend with thy Maker ?
Joanna. No ! I cannot contend with my M a­
ker:—neither would I for the world: for I both
love and fear him, and the study of my life hath
been to know his will and obey it. Therefore
I am not contending with the Lord, but with the
Power of Darkness, who is come to plead for him-'
14
Digitized by
seflf, for me to give up my writings, and destroy the
covenant the Lord hath made for m an; but I would
sooner die, than do it, or destroy any of the works
•of the Lord. His word is sealed up: and shall I
break it to please Satan ? N o ! I say again,' I would
sooner die, than renounce my faith in him, who is
the God of my salvation, and hath promised re­
demption to man. And now I trust the book is
shut and sealed up, and the Lord will keep his
word. And shall I promise to break the covenant
of the Lord? or belie m)r conscience, to say 1 do
not judge it of God ? N o ! I will run all hazards of
Satan’s punishment, or threatenings, or death;
sooner than I will give up, the word of G o d ; or
my faith in him. N o ! my hope of happiness de­
pends on him ; and I will not fear what death and
hell can do unto me. The God in whom I have
trusted is able and willing to .deliver me out of thy
hands.
4
4 Fearless of <$arthand ghastly hell.
I’ll break through every fbe:
For arms of faith and wings of love.
Will bear me conqueror through.”
Satan. Thou mad fool f thou art running on
like a parrot. This is the very reason I am come
unto thee, and have power to destroy thee: be­
cause thou art claiming a promise of God he
never made thee,—to seal up bounds for Satan,
whose bounds are unlimited, and whose power none
can destroy.
Joanna. I answer: the Bible hath said, Satan,
shall be destroyed: for Christ died to triumph,
over death, hell, and the grave, and to chain down*
the Powers of Darkness ; and who can prove He
will not? I have not believed any spirit contra­
ry to the Bible j and the word of God is yea, and
amen. God hath not given thee leave, O Satan,
to come and hurt me : for it is not like the ways
15
Digitized by Google
of the Lord to act in this manner with those that
love and< fear him. If what I have done had not
been the qommand of God, he would have con­
vinced me in another manner; and not have work­
ed in the hearts of good men, who are wishing for
Christ and his kingdom, to assist me in bringing
round such mysteries, for Satan to convince me,
and not have done it himself. God is a faithful
rewarder of them who diligently seek him ; and he
hath promised he will not leave them nor forsake
them. But as firm as the hills stand about Jeru­
salem, so firm stands the Lord round them that
fear him.
“ My trait Is in hit mighty power.
And he will keep me still;
And I with him shell surely stand
On Zion’s holy hill.”
E nd o f the First D ay's Disputation*
16
THE SECOND DAY’S DISPUTE.
Satak.
TH O U proud, vain, boasting fool, how dost
thou know, that came from Satan ?
Joanna. Because no spirit of God would have
made me that answer for trusting in the God of
my salvations for the Lord himself hath command­
ed us to trust in him. So I judge by the words,
and the angry,malicious manner in which they were
spoken, that they were from the devil.
Satan. Then now I will tell thee my thoughts.
Whatever spirit leads thee, thou art a fool, not to sc$
it is a low, subtle, artful, cunning spirit, to betray
thy ignorance; when thou knowest, in thy writings
it was said, “ I f men -despise the threatenings o f
the Lord, he would send rain to make the grain as
soft as men." But now there is fine weather,
and a glorious harvest appearing. The arts
____ Digitized by L j O O Q l e
of the spirit have turned it, to say, it is a sign thou
hast changed the decrees of heaven for man, by
pleading the promises of God to cast the devil;
therefore the weather is changed ; and if it turned
to' rain, there will be sotpe pretended excuse for if.
And c&nst thou justify such artful, turning, and
twisting conduct, to be from the Lord ? Dost thou
not see, if it be so, there is more wisdom in the de*
vil than in him ? I am waiting for thy answer, to
see if thou wilt justify thy God in so many arts,
Jom na. Who will dare to say they are arts ?
When the Lord placeth signs, he will fulfil them.
The summer hath been cold and rainy, and the
cofn beat down, and the hay hurt. But he that
casteth down can raise up. For now the Lord
hath set a sign of a glorious Lammas fair for man,
if I did not give up my faith to Satan, but stood
strong and unshaken in the works of the Lord;
and to confirm my faith, h,e has shewed me what
a glorious harvest he will bring in fpr believers*
hy the sign of the weather. If it changes to rain,
or should continue, the wisdom of God is clear,
wise, and ju st; and can clear the truth of his
own words. For now mark this week how many
arc praying for me to stand, Christ’s kingdom to
come, and Satan’s to be destroyed. Then if these
things are pleasing to God, will he not shew it
by the weather? and if it shines oh the just, it
must on the unjust also. So here the Lord 'rejus­
tified, and glorified ; and his name be praised, for
setting such a sign before me in the weather—as
snakes it cle.ar to me, that all the signs of the Lord
« e true.
And to his truth I wiH ever stand,
And claim the promise from his faithful hand.
For a* the glonous sunshine doth appear,
Just so 1judge my glorious God is here :
Whose wondrous goodness he will soon display.
And bring for man a glorious harvest day,
B
17
Digitized by Google
IS
For so he saul, this week it should appear—
Dismiss the clouds of doubt, I need not fear;
And now my doubts he surely doth dismiss;
And in my Saviour now is all my trust.
Satan. Then now I will answer thee from thy
dream. Thou sayest thou wilt not give up thy faith
in G od; but find an excuse for him, as he finds an
excuse for thee: and though thou confessest thou
hast been foiled 5 yet thy faith continuetb; because
the spirit hath wisdom and art to drown thy senses;
but it cannot drown the senses of an all-wise G od;
though thou sayest it is Satan that answereth thee:
but now I tell thee, from the' men, I shewed thee
thy mistake in thy dream. The three men that
came to thee first, were Bruce, Foley, and Web­
ster, and their faith comes from hell, as thou judg-
e st; and the large company that came after, are
those .that will come after. The fish is Satan,
who will devour thee, if thou dost not give up
thy faith. So I did not let him destroy thee last
night, before I had shewed thee the end in a vi­
sion : but this night, if thou dost not sign thy name
to burn thy writings, and say Satan hath convinced
thee, he will assuredly jump on thee, as thou
sawest in thy dream. So now answer what thou.
wilt do 3
Joanna. I will not giye up my faith in God,
nor say my writings come from the devil. If
the Lord killeth me, I will still trust in him. (I
cannot, nor will believe the wisdom of God ever
sent me here for Satan to convince me.) His
wisdom, mercy, and goodness, will convince me
if I am w rong: and he would have answered my
prayers before now, when I had been in tears
and prayers before him, pleading my own igno­
rance, want of judgment, knowledge, and under­
standing. Being ignorant ot what I never saw;
invisible spirits are unknown to m e: but not to
the Lord. And he would not have suffered my
Digitized by
iff
writings to come true, to strengthen my faith, that
they were of God, if they were not. Now as I have
run all hazards for ten years past, trusting in the God
of my salvation, that he would not leave me nor
forsake m e; and as I have lost my good name by
an ill-natured world, and all that I had, now will
I run the hazard of my life also. For I know, th at.
the words thou speakest of an all-wise God, never
came from an all-wise God. After ten years’ keep­
ing silence, as Satan would persuade me, now to
break out in one speech, mixed with so many fool­
ish contradictions one with the other, is absurd. So
now, Satan, mind, the. fish had no power to hurt
.me; neither wilt thou.
,. Sa'an. I ask thee this question: art thou so
hardened through unbelief, to sign thy name, that
nqtargumpnt shall prevail upon thee to give them up
io ie fe ^ ^ y s ? Suppose the ministers and thy friends
should come and persuade thee to it. Answer me
that question, and I know what I have to d o ..
Joanna, Joanna’s answer is readily given; if
.the ministers and my friends come and persuade
me to give them up, I shall, judge their faith, like
my dream, comes from hell. So I will not be led
by them, nor any one, to give them up in seven
days. Seven days can never convince me they are
not of G od;—and I will sooner give up my life,
than give up my faith in seven days. So it .is not
all the powers of earth or hell shall make me run
so fatal a hazard. And I now sign my name, Jo­
anna Southcott,* that I will not give them up in
seven days.
Satan. And dost thou mean to stand to that
word?
Joanna. Yes. I will stand to it, unless the
Lord takes my life from me.—And then he and
he alone makes me give them up. For men nor
devils never shall make me give up my faith in the
God of my salvation.
b 2 ' ‘
Digitized by Google
Satan. Thou sayest to thyself, the Lord never
required an answer from man in seven days, in
so weighty a thing, to give up their faith; for
man cannot be a judge so soon. Now answer
me this question : why Satan hath no longer than
seven days to try thee, and plead for himself, as
thou sayest in thy writings he must stand or fall
in seven days?—And is that just ? Canst thou clear
it to be just for him to give a final answer in seven
days?
Joanna. Yes, very just and right. For Satan
does know who he is contending with. Invisible
spirits are known to him ; and it is very just to re­
quire a positive answer froip him in seven days ;
because he knows who demands his answer. But
dost and ashes, that seeth through a glass darkly,
cannot see spirits face to face. And the Lora,
who searchetn the hearts and trieth the reins of the
children of men, knoweth if they are led by a wrong
.spirit through ignorance; yet if their desires be for
the glory oiG od, and the good of mankind, he will
give them time, and shew them clearly, if their
faith was wrongly placed, before he demanded from
them so important an answer. Now, if I renounce
my faith before I am clear, I must commit a fatal
sin.—Nay, I must sin with open eyes: for I as
much believe my writings are of God, as I do the
Bible: and I would sooner die. than give them up.
This is my determination.
Satan. Thou shalt feel the weight of my an­
gler-before the morning. Dare to answer at thy
peril.
Joanna. Shall I fear to answer thee, O Satan,
who seekest my ruin and the ruin of all m an­
kind? Have I not a God, who has promised to
protect me ? And in him will I trust. His hand
. will support me ; his power will keep m e; so I
will not fear thy threatenings; for I know tby
malice is more than thy p o w e r ■
blessed be the
20
Digitized by Google
name pf the Lord, for his power, goodness, and
truth.
Satan. There is no mercy, goodness, nor truth
in him.
Joanna. He is full of mercy, goodness, and truth.
It is of his tender mercy, that I am not consumed ;
for thy malice, O Satan, would soon destroy me.
Satan. And art thou resolved to have the last
word ?
Joanna. Ye6,1 never will give up to thee. The
Lord is my trust, whom shall I fear ? The Holy One
of Israel is the rock of my defence.
Satan. Then now thou wilt see thy rock before
the morning.
Joanna. If I see the Lord, I shall be happyj
but thy face I do not want to see; for thou art.
no rock of my defence: the rock of my defence
is the Lord.
Satan. If I do not kill thee before the morning
say, my malice is more than my power. Thou has
been rejoicing in what thou hast been flattered with
from the Spirit of the Lord:—for so, I will now
confess it to be. But if I do not overcome his
power this night, and kill thee before the morn­
ing, if thou answerest me again, then I am damned
for ever.
Joanna. I know thy malice is more than thy
power. The Lord is my strong tow er; who has
promised to keep me from thy power. And I will
not give up to thee, O Satan, in word or deed.—
For if the Lord will not protect me, I will not
stoop to protection from thee. I hate thy mercies/
for tney are cruel. The mercies of God are good;
and just: But thy heart is nothing but unjust. For:
what canst thou blame me ? Because 1 wish to
be freed from sin and sorrow, and to see the glo­
rious kingdom of Christ established,and every heart
to love him, and every, knee.to bow before him,;
and every thngue to confess he is worthy to bp
21
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
loved, worthy to be feared, and worthy to be had'
in everlasting remembrance ? Who hath shewed
such love to die for us ?
Satan. Thoij art exalting the merits of Christ,
because he may protect thee this night; but that
^is out of his power; for thou slialt never meet
’ thy friends, to say, blessed be God for his goodness,
and cursed be Satan for his badness. It I am a
devil, then now I will be a devil; and that thou
shalt find before the morning. 1 did not tear thee
in pieces Jast night:. I thought thy dream would
have frightened thee into compliance; but as it hath
not, thou shalt groan for something this night. And
mind, in Exeter, I had power to come to thee; but
thou hast no one in the inner room now. So thou
art in my power, unless thou dost not answer me
again before the morning. Then I will not trouble
thee this night. But if thou answerest one word,
or put thy name, I will tear thee to pieces; for the
Lord shall not prevent me.
Joanna. Then now I shall know in whom I
trust, and who is the strong man armed. The Lord
hath promised to protect me, if I rely on him ; but
if I give out, because of Satan’s threatenings j then
I give up my faith in Christ, and fear the power of
the devil. Now I shall.know in whom I have
trusted. If the Lord be not my support, thou, O
Satan, wilt be as good as thy word : If thy for­
mer words are true, that my writings are not of
God, I am well assured I shall never see ano­
ther day. If I am deceived in whom I have be­
lieved, it is over with me ; and I am of all women
the most miserable:—and miserable let me be,
sooner than mock God and deceive man. I will
not fear to answer, it I die for it: for I know the
power of God is greater than the power of Sa-
' ta n : and he has promised to protect me and keep
me from all dangers ; and now, in the time I am
mfraid, I will trust in him, who is the God of my
22
Digitized by Google
4
salvation, almighty in power, goodness, and truth.
So if I perish, I perish ; but it shall be trusting
in the Lord, who hath promised, that the gates of
hell shall .not prevail against those who trust in him.
If the Lord hath forsaken me, I shall die. If he
hath not; I know I shall live to rejoice in the God
of my salvation; and we shall bless and praise God
together on the morrow.
Satan. Thou infamous bitch ! Thou hast been
flattering God, that he may stand thy friend. Such
low cunning art 1 despise.
Joanna. I have not been flattering the most
high God. I have been pleading the promises he
hath made throughout the Bible to me and to all
who believe in him. In my writings, he hath as­
sured me, if I trust in him, he will not leave me, nor
forsake me. But I must give up my trust in God,
if I fear the threatenings of Satan. Now if 1 perish,
I perish; I will not give up my trust in God. It is
impossible to flatter the most high God. All hearts
are open before him. He knoweth our hearts and
thoughts as well as our w ords; and there is no
tongue, or pen, but must come far short, if it pre­
tends to speak of his goodness and worth. So as
long as I live I will trust in him; and when my
hopes there fail, let me die. He will not leave
me, nor forsake me : his promise is given to pro­
tect m e; and I will sooner die, than give up my
faith in him.
Satan. Thou whining devil! Thou art plead­
ing the perfections to gain the Lord on thy side,and
call down his almighty power to protect thee; for
thou art afraid, without his protection, I shall tear
thee in pieces. Now if thou art a woman of spirit,
say, thou defiest my power in thy own strength, and
then I will say thou art a hero.
Joanna. Such a hero I never can be, nor do
I vs;ish to be, to stand in any strength of my own.
What is*a child in the hands of a giant? What
- 25
Digitized by Google
be dust and ashes in the hands of the devil, with­
out the power of God to support them ? No ! rtiy
trust is in the power of God, and not in myself*—>
But I did not know that devils were whining ind
. mourning to gain the protection of heaven. If
so, they will throw down their arms of rebellion
■against him, and repent that they ever offended*
Blessed be the name of the Lord ! M y trust is iri
him.
Satan. Now thou hast contradicted thy own
tings: for thou sayest, Christ is present in thy forfn }
and what power dost thou want greater ?
Joanna. If Christ be present in the spirit speaks
ing to me, and by me, if he leaves me I ttm no
more of. myself than another. While he is with
me I am in safety: but if he leaves me* I ant un­
done j like a child left by a patent, when a thief
comes to destroy it. So my trust is surely in the
Lord’s protection.
Satan. Didst thou not say, all thou sayest is spo­
ken by the Spirit of Christ?
Joanna. I have told in my writings tvhat I say
of myself, and what is of God.
Satan. Tell me by what spirit thou hast been
answering me this night ?
Joanna. From a spirit of truth; from the bible.
which is spoken by the God of truth ; whose pro- •
mises every man, that believes in God, hath a right
to plead, believe in, and rely on.
Satan. Then thou doest not say that Christ is
so proud as to plead his own merits ? It is thou art
pleading them for him.
Joanna. This last answer, O thou presumptuous
devil! hath astonished me. Christ’smerits are knowik
to be so great, so good, so faithful, and true; full
of might, majesty and power, goodness and truth's
he hath shewed them to mankind ip hisr love? in
dying for them ; and hath promised to fulfil all at
bis second comings so if fare' pleads them him­
24
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
self, it Is his honour and glory: to shew mankind
he is a merciful.Father, a true Saviour, a perfect
Redeemer, and that he is what he said—the God
of truth to lead us into all truth. A man of ho­
nour will contend for his honour; then surely the
God of honour will contend for his honour, that
we may rely updn him, and trust in him. 'He hath
promised to be a faithful Father, to faithful chil­
dren; a true.Saviour to those who trust in him
for salvation. So come Lord Jesus, O come
quickly.
Here Ends the Second Day's Disputation*
25
* THE THIRD DAY’S DISPUTE.
THURSDAY, A ugust 5, 1802.
Sa t a n .
GOD is unjust.
Joanna. GOD is just, merciful, and powerful,
in goodness, and in tru th ; worthy to be loved,
worthy to be feared, and worthy to be had in ever­
lasting remembrance. Let heaven and earth praise
his most holy Name: and at the name of JESUS
let every knee bow, and every tongue confess, that
he is worthy of honour, praise, and power. Glory
be to the Lamb for ever.
Satan. W hat room have I to speak, if thy tongue
xunson so fast? Thou art all thyself; and all thy
friends have said i t : there is not room to speak;
thou givest two words for one.
Joanna. Then now I will hear what thou hast
to say, Satan, If it be an hour, I will not answer
till thou keepest silence; but I shall not wait for
thy words, w henthou art pleased to speak them.
Digitized by t ^ o o Q l e
By the fulnessof the heart the mouth speaketh; and
the fulness of my heart makes me speak for the
truth of God.
Satan. I shall answer thee from thy own words.
Thou sayest by the fulness of the heart the mouth
speaketh. But dost thou think I will run on a t
random, as thou dost? I tell thee no. I shall speak
with discretion. I say again, God is unjust, to
have me, who was so great and mighty a king, in
heaven, to whom the third part joined ; and when
I came down'below, as God would not give me
•the power I wanted there, which was but to go­
vern over those that joined me, (I did not want
to govern those that joined with the Lord, I only
Wanted to govern those thatjoined with m e;) here
God acted unjustly, not to let me abide there, as a
king upon my throne; but took it from me. Then
he unjustly cast me out of heaven, and gave me
power to reign upon earth, and have the power
over all that I could gain. . This I have beared,
and would bear, if this was not taken from me.
Now to have this reign and power taken from me,
by the whining and crying of a poor worm of a
woman, who never knew my greatness, nor power,
nor grandeur; to have her treat me with contempt,
mock my greatness, despise my grandeur, and
laugh at my threatenitigs, and mock me-to my face,
pay no regard to my might, majesty, or power,
who had power over the angels in heaven, and
over the third part of the world ; and now to have
that power lessened by the desire and petition of
a worm of a woman, that is as much inferior to
me, as the meanest beggar is to the greatest mo­
narch 1 Thou knowest not the greatness of the
king thoutreatestwith contempt; nor his power;
for'I tell thee, I have millions of angels and spirits
to assist m e; and I did not destroy thee last night,
because I had not told thee my power, might, nor
majesty; but now I tell thee, if thou despisest vnf
26
Digitized by Google'
power, and dost not humbly answer me, my hand
is on thy shoulder, to strike thy head against th e
ceiling. For now I am come by day, and not by
night. Now mark ;—I hold thee to thy hour; and
let that hour be up, before thou answerest me one
word. What, dost thou answer already, as though
thou wast speaking to an inferior power? I tell
thee plainly, if thou answerest me so again, I will
dash thy head against the ceiling. Dost thou an-
swer, silly Satan, I am claiming power Over what iff
not my own ? And dost thou say, Christ is thine,
and thou art his r Thou shalt see before the morn­
ing. I f thou wilt not give up to my superior power,'
I will call all the host of hell to destroy thee. 'So
now give me thy answer, and consider what legion*
I have got to command.
Joanna. Out of thy own mouth do I condemn
thee. O Satan, thou art come to compel me to serve
thee, whom from my heart and soul I hate. And
had not the Lord cast thee out of heaven, thou
wouldest exert that power there. Thou art no#
contented with all those whom thou sayest thou
gainest by the power of temptations ; but now
comest by threatenings to demand greater power.
Just, and right, and good is God, to cut short thy
arbitrary power. W hat hast thou to do with- me,
O Satan ? I tell thee, I hate thee, and all thy
ways. I said thy power was like a serpent, whose
power was in his sting. I am the Lord’s, and him
only will I serve. And thou now shewest plainly
the justice of God to chain thee down. For if he
giveth thee power, thou wilt not only tempt, but
command; and presently boast of thy hellish host,
till thou hast robbed God of his honour and
pow er; and man of his happiness; and made the
whole creation one scene of wretchedness and mi­
sery. Thou wantest to overthrow the power of
the most high G od: and is he not just to chain
thee down, O Satan ? Thy own words condem*
*7
Digitized by Google
thee in every word tbou bast spoken. And was.
no t the Lord just to cast such a tyrant out o f
beaven ? Who now boastest of thy hellish power
to compel, where thou canst not tempt r Should
the Lord give up to thy malicious power, he must
give up being a king upon his throne ; and give
up man, that he hath made, to the malicious power
oi the devil; and ruin the works of his own hands^
and make a creation he cannot command. For
now I see, where thou canst not tempt, thou wilt
command, if thou canst. Out of thy own mouth,
thou art condemned for a liar. Thou sayest thou,
didst not want to govern those that were notjoined
to thee; but now thou art come to compel me to
worship thee, whom I hate; and if the Lord had
let thee abide in heaven, thou wouldest have com*
pelled the heavenly host the same, and unthrone
the pQwer of the most high God. So do not say
that thou art unjustly cast; for never was a villain
more justly cast, than thou art; to say thou wilt
compel by armies to rob God of one that loves
and fears him ; adores, and worships him. I f by
arte thou canst not tem pt; by hellish armies, thou
sayest, thou wilt command, to rob God, and say thy
power is superior to the most high G od; who has
promised to protect me, if I trust in him : and in
him will I trust, as the God of my salvation, who is
mighty in power, mighty in goodness, and mighty
in tru th ; who said he was God, and there was none
besides him ; and his honour he would not give to
another. But thou, Satan, wantest to take it, and
rob God of the honour due .unto his name:
*
* For glory^ honour, praise and power,
Be unto the Lamb fo r ever”
And*blessed be the name o f the Lord, that made
us, and hath promised to redeem u s; aad in his
promise is my trust; and the Lord rebuke thee,
Satan, for saying, thou wilt destroy those that will
■%
28
r*
Digitized by Google
Sp
norforsake the living God, and serve thee. W hat
a king dost thou want to be? W hat power dost
thou want to rule by, to unthrone the God o f
glory ? Now I see thy hellish arts, in what manner
thou didst betray the woman at first, by the same
lies thou first didst tell me, that my writings were
not of God, and didst persuade me to burn them,
to disobey his command, when the Lord had com-
manded me not to do it. W hat artful scheme didst
thou contrive to persuade me it was not the com­
mand of the Lord 1—and when that would not do,
then come with threatenings to com pel!
E nd o f the Third D ay's Disputation.
THE FOURTH DAY’S DISPUTE.
FRIDAY, A ugust 6, 1802.
Sa ta k .
TH O U eternal bitch ! Thou runnest on so fast?
the devil cannot overtake thee,
Joanna. Neither do I want to have him. But
as I am ordered to pen his words, I shall pen them ;
hut I will not sit waiting for them. If he cannot
find arguments ready, let him keep silence; and
hear w m t 1 have to say for myself, my Maker, and
dear Redeemer.
Satan. Damn thy Redeemer, and thee too 1 Is
my power to be overthrown by the desire <of a
cursed woman ? Now I tell thee, if (God does not
renounce that promise, I will bring in a bill against
him, and shame him to his face. Thou knowcst
not what is behind. Thou sayest I am a devil;
and so I tell thee now 1 will be one. Thou sayest
my reign-is short—and it shall bepowerful. 1 have
not done; so don’t be too ready with thy *n^
swtrs. I see thy laughter, and I will turq
Di ^ e d by Google
to mourning. The seven days ate not yet up ;
and dare Foley or Bruce to. rob me of my time
allowed me ? I shall speak for myself all this day,
and not wait for thy answers.
Joanna. Thou art silent; and 1 shall begin. I
will not wait one minute for thy words. I hear
when thou stoppest, and then my answer is ready.
This day, if thou hast ought to say for thyself, or
against the Most High, bring it forth; and I am
ordered by the Lord to pen it. .But I am not
ordered to sit and wait till thou art pleased to speak.
I'can pen all thou hast to say by four o’clock. But
if thou hast more to say than I can pen by that
time, I will pen it after: but not if thou keepest
silence before, for thy pleasure; thou shale then
wait for mine.
Satan. Thou aggravating devil! I will appeal
to any man of sense, if thou art not enough to
provoke the devil, and enrage all hell against thee:
and now thou sittest and laughest at all thou art
writing from me. I have not done;—don’t be so
ready with thy answers. I will keep thee on. till
night, if I make thee write nonsense. I will mock
thee now ; for know, thou art commanded to pea
all I say : and so 1 shall say on, God is a God.
Joanna. Thou sayestGod is a God. I answer, a
just God, a good God, an holy, and a true G od;
heaven and earth will set forth his praises. But thou
sayest, Satan, I am enough to provoke thedevil. And
didst thou not provoke the woman to wrath at first,
when thou deceivedst her with lies and broughtest
misery upon her? Didstthou not provoke the woman
to anger and indignation against thee, when thou
workedst in the hearts of men by thy hellish power
to crucify her Son ? Look at Calvary—Look at the
Cross—See there, the dear, and dying Lord crucifi-
.ed, pierced with spears, and hanging on the cursed
tree, which thy hellish arts had worked on man to
.feting on him—See all the sufferings that he went
through, andsee if this wasnot enough to enrage the
50
Digitized by L i O O Q l e
Woman, and provoke her to wrath and indignatiofi
against thee, to laugh at thy calamities, and mock
when thyfe a r cometh. It isjust and right,Satan, that
thou shouldest feel the weight of the woman’s,wrath
and indignation against thee, who seekedst her ruin
from the first; and now thou hast tried, by every art
hell can invent, to seek it at last. Now, Satan, look
to Calvary, and there behold her dying Lord, and see
if justice doth not demand thy guilty blood :-^and
the woman's wrath and indignation on thy head*
Thou serpent to the woman, her woes of sorrow
must now come on thee. Now answer for thyself,
if thou canst.
Satan. Was not God an eternal fool to let him
jsufter, if he could prevent it ?
Joanna. God suffered his Son to take the blame
man cast on his Maker, in Paradise. For as thy arts,
0 Satan, broughtdeath on man, and he cast it on bis
Maker, for giving him the woman; he took it, and
shared the fate with man. But know, the Lord pro*'
mised then, that the serpent should share the fate
the woman cast on him : and now thou must share
thy fate with Jezebel—For she forged lies to de­
stroy Naboth, and gained his vineyard ; and thou
hast forged lies the same—and thou must be cast
down as she was, and shafe thy fate with thy fol­
lowers, as Christ did with his followers.
Satan. Stop thy damned eternal tongue; thou
runne&t on so fast, all the devils in hell cannot keep
up with thee.. Thou sayest Christ suffered with his
followers, and I shall with mine..If Christ was such,
a fool to submit, I will submit to no such laws.
1 did not make them : and now I will break them.
For I will work in earth and hell to war, before I
will stoop to suffer like Jezebel. Thy tongue is
ready for an answer; but I have not done yet.
Joanna. Thy tongue is silent; and I will not wait
one moment to hear what thou hast to say. Thou
Jjreakedst the law at first; and when thou knewest
the law of God, that he had made;—ifthou bruises!
31
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
3S
his heel, he shall bruise thy head. N ov thou vast
ready enough to enter into Judas to fulfil the lav
of the first part, that the Lord had made, to bruise
his heel; now God, in justice to his own honour
and great name, must bruise thy head, to fulfil the
last part. For, as Christ submitted to the first, so
thou must submit to the last So, if thou art a
king, shew thy honour as a king, and die quietly
with thy followers, as Christ did with his followers.
So now, see the gallows and the fires, which thy
followers have been brought to, by following thee,
O Satan—And now it is but just and right for thee
to share the fate with them. And if thou deniest
the justice of God in this sentence, thou deniest
all that is right and ju s t; then a just God must
take justice into his own hands.
Satan. A woman’s tongue no man can tame. God
hath done something to choose a bitch of a woman,
that will down-argue the devil, and scarce give him
room to speak—for the sands <ofa glass do not rua
faster than thy tongue. It is better to dispute with
a thousand men, than with one woman. Thy assur­
ance and ignorance protect thee. Thou payest no
.more regard to the greatness of Satan, than thou
wouidest to a chattering woman like thyself. So I
must confess I was a fool there, ever to enter into
dispute with thee, knowing what a chattering fool
thou a rt; all men are tired of thy longue ;.and now
thou hast tired thedevil also. Therefore, do shut up,
and say no more, for thy own shame; but I know
there is no shame in thee, if the devil do pot shame
thee now. Pomeroy said, thou toldest too fast;
Manley said, thou toldest too fast; Mossop said,
•thou toldest too fast; and Bruce said the same : and
men and women have tried to shame thee out of it.
But I hope, if none else can shame thee, the devil
will shame thee, as not to answer again. For, as thy
«paper is nearly ended, I will get a-headnf thee now,
:if thou answerest again; unless thou art like a mad
fool without any shame at a it So I will see wbat
Digitized by L i o o z l e
thou hast got to say; and answer in a few w ords:
for I hate so many as thou answerest—one word
of a sort is enough.
Joanna. One word of a sort I will answer. I f
man can't tame a woman’s tongue, how shall the
devil5 If God hath done something to choose a
woman to dispute with Satan at last, Satan did
something to dispute with the woman at first; if
Satan down-argued the woman at first, she ought
to down-argue him at last. If Satan scarce gave
the woman room to speak or think at first, the wo­
man ought not to give him room to speak or think
at last. If Satan thought fit to dispute with the wo­
man at first, he hath thought it fit to dispute with
her at last* If Satan thought it better to dispute
with twenty men than with one woman, why did he
not appear when there were but three men, to plead
for himself? If Satan paid no regard to the weak­
ness and ignorance of the woman at first, the weak­
ness and ignorance of the woman will pay no re­
gard to him at last. I f he took theadvantage of her
Weakness, she will take the advantage of her
strength. If Satan pleaded the promises of God
against her, she will plead the promises of God for
her. If Satan repents of his folly at last, he ought
to haye>fepented at first, that ever he entered into
dispu4$:with her. If he knew what a weak, igno-
sbewas at first, to believe in his words,
Iwknow, when the voice of the Lord came
fyto bid her claim the promise, to be as Gods,
knowing good from evil; she would be as ready to
believe the latter as the former, and rely on that
, promise, and claim it. If the woman’s fall has tired
men, I hope, it will tire the devil also. If a devil
could rfijtgiiuime her at first, how shall he shame
4ier at last? I f he was not ashamed to enter into
dispute with her, why should he be ashamed of her
»riwords ? If they are right, they cannot shame the
rajyomiin; and if they are wrong they cannot shame
.c
S3
Digitized by Google
the devil. For he glorieth in what the woman doth,
that is wrong; so if the woman is not ash&med of
herself, the devil cannot shame her. If she is not
ashamed to say much before men she does regard,
she cannot be ashamed to say much to the devil,
that she does not love, nor fear, butdespise.
\To this Satan made no answer Jbr several hours:
But Joanna heard a whispering to this purpose;
“ Christ is in her, or she would have never made
so ready an answer; and we may as well leave her.”
This she penned; and, after some time, Satan thus
broke in upon her :
Satan. Who dost thou judge said Christ was in
thee, or thou couldest not give so ready an answer ?
Joanna. I said, I did not know.
■ Satan. Then now, I tell thefc, it was the angels
of the Lord : and they said they would leave thee;
and thou wantest no guard. So, now I tell thefe,
thou art in my power ; and death and hell is thy
portion, if thou gnsvverest me again.
Joanna. The Lord never forsakes any who trust
in him ; and he will not do it now. He hath pro­
mised to be with me—but, as thou wishest most
to converse with men, why wast thou such a cow­
ard, not to appear when they were present?
Satan. To make God the liar:—because he said,
they should see wondrous things; and I was deter­
mined to give him the lie. Dost thou think I would
appear by God’s appointment? No—I would not.
Joanna. The Lord did not command thee to
appear; but if thou judgedst thyself injured, or
wronged, he gave thee liberty to appear and an­
swer for thyself; and, as thou sayest it is best to
dispute with men, thou oughtest to have appeared
when they were present. •
Satan. Then I will appear visible now.
Joanna. That is, if tne Lord will let thee.
Satan. Is the Lord my keeper ?
34
Digitized by Google
Joantia. It would be happy for thee, O Satan, if
he had been thy keeper.
Satan. I would sooner be in hell-flames for ever
than stoop to any superior power to my own.
Joanna. Then into the flames thou oughtest to
go. If the long-suffering mercies of God towards
thee, and his not enteriug into strict judgm ent
with thee, is of no avail, but thou art still harden­
ed, thy destruction is just.
Satan, How can I say any thing, if thou sayest
so much? Thou givest ten words for one.
Joanna. Thou wilt not speak to any purpose at
all—only a few provoking words, without sense or
reasou. Bring forth thy arguments why thou art un­
justly dealt with; that'the world may judge thee.
End o f the Fourth Day's Disputation.
TH E FIFTH DAY’S DISPUTE.
SATURDAY, A v &ust 7, 1802.
4 Sa t a n .
• TH E world judge me ! The world hath'judged
me already, and they approve of all my ways,
words, and actious. W hat is there in me, the world -
do not like ? Do I not set forth every pleasure be­
fore them ? And do they not delight in it? Do men
love the ways of God at all r Now, I am ready to
be judged by the world; for the world loves his
ow n; and they love me, by doing as I draw their
hearts. If my ways were not more pleasing to man­
kind, than the„wa*ysof the Lord, why do the mul­
titude follow me ? Thou sayest thyself; there is>
more truth in this, than in all I have said: For the
multitude do follow me. Then how can they con­
demn me? So I am ready to be judged by the
w orld; aud I know I shall have one thousand
friends, where tbeoLord would have one ; was it
not far his damned power, no man would love him,
c 2
» 35
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
nor fear turn; but it is for fear of his cursed judg­
ments he is feared, and not that he is loved. Thou
art inclined to give credit to the truth, and so bow
I may go o n ; for thy damned tongue cannot run
so fast now ; thou art not so ready with thy an­
swers. Now, let the world judge of the truth of
my words, and see if the major part is not my
friends; and, as most,votes carry the day, I am
very ready to be clioosed by votes; and, if I lose
the election, I shall be willing to lose on a fair trial:
for thou knowest there is but few are willing to give
ft* their names to be freed1from my power, and this
thou knowest is true. Then, if 1 am willing to let
most votes carry the day, how can God be just to
cut me off, when I have ten to one with him ? Now,
as thou hast said out of my mouth thou condemnest
me—out <
f>
f thy mouth will I condemn thee and
thy Maker. For the Lord said, he would deal with
fnen after the manner of m en; now, after the man­
ner of men, I am witling to gain my election. If
I cannot get most votes, I will willingly lose my
election, and be no Member of Parliament at all.
But I know, if justice is done me that way, I shall
stand, and keep the kingdom, as I have kept it al­
ready. For I know 1have ten to one with the Lord -
then how can he come and claim the kingdom his
own, when the hearts of the major part are mine ?
And if it do not prove so, I will freely resign my
kingdom. Now, if this is not just, there never was
justice in the world. I have made a just confes­
sion— M o s t v o t e s s h a i j l c a u r t t h e d a y .
Joanna. Then, now thou sayest, Satan, most
votes shall carry the d ay ; thou art willing to give
up to that ?
Satan, Yes. I am willing, very willing, to stand
to th a t; and so let the dispute be over, and thou
say no more; for, L tell thee, here it is ended.
W hat I have said, I will stand,to. It is justice;
equity, and rig h t; and I am willing to stand a fair
36
Digitized by G o o g l e
tria l; and now thou hast no more to say. I have
ended by saying, I offer to stand a fair trial, after
the manner of men.
Joanna. Then now thou sayest thou wilt stand
a fair trial ? If the greatest part of the world be
thine, as thou sayest, and they are wishing for thee
to be their king and governor, thou sayest, by jus­
tice, thou oughtest to stand; if not, in justice
thou consentest to fall, and give up thn kingdom
to Christ. *
Satan. Yes. If Christ can gain the kingdom
by most votes, 1 will own it is just for me to lose
my footing here i but if I have the most votes,
Christ ought to lose his footing here, and I ought
to have the kingdom myself.
Joanna. Then, now thou art willing to take all,
or leave a ll; as most votes carry the day.
Satan. Yes, I am.
Joanna. Then, my life for thee, thou wilt leave
all. For thou wilt find, when thy friends are tried,
thou wilt not have one out of ten with the Lord.
Thy friends will deceive thee: they will forsake
thee: and be like the King of France’s subjects—
cut off thy head, and sav, behold the head of a
traitor. I believe, when thy friends are tried, thou
wilt find them all deceive thee. For now I tell
thee, thou never wast the author and finisher o f one
pleasure in thy life. If ever thou temptest men to
sin, that they found pleasure in, the sorrow it
brought them into was ten times worse than their
momentary pleasures. Now I will set forth a ca­
talogue of thy pleasures. Thou temptest men to
rob, aud bringest one to beggary, and the other
to the gallows; thou temptest man to murder, and
cut off the life of his fellow-creature; and the
murderer thou bringest to the gallows. Here are
thy pleasures, Satan; thou settest men at variance
one with another; houses and families, husbands
and wives, thou settest at variance; thou stirrest
37
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
up strife, anger, discord, malice, and debate, one
against another. To give thee.thy fair character,
tnou art the destroyer of every pleasure, and every
happiness: and thou robbest man of that state of
heavenly happiness that the Lord made him for at
first. Look back to the creation. When the Lord
had made a Paradise for man, and placed him in
the garden of Eden ; made him lord of the crea­
tion ; made his partner to complete his happiness,
and the man and woman to be happy together;
thou soon didst break jus bliss asniider. No
sooner were Cain and Abel grown to manhood, and
Adam and Eve thought themselves blest with their
two sons, but thou laidst hold of Cain’s heart to
murder his innocent brother, and broughtest de­
struction on all the family. And dost thog call this
pleasure ? And say thou wantest the hearts of all
men to make them so miserable ? To turn earth into
a perfect helU? For know, Satan, there is not one
blessing thou canst command. The fruits of the
earth, the fruits of the trees, are biessings from the
most high God ; sunshine.and rain come from the
Lord; health and streugth are all from him ; and
all the beauties of the earth are the Lord's : love,
peace, happiness, joy, comforts, and pleasures that
are lasting, are all from the most high God. He
that doth not enjoy pleasure from the Lord, never
.knew what true pleasure was. The pleasuresof God
are a heaven upon earth; and this I speak by happy
experience—and when Christ comes to possess the
whole; then will our light break forth as the morn­
ing, and our pleasures be clear as the noon-day
sun: righteousness and truth will meet together;
love and peace will kiss each other; harmony, love,
and unity, will run through every heart—and God,
even our God, will give us his blessing.
u Then shall the teeming ground a large increase afford,
" And all the listening nations round.shall praise the living Lord.
38
Digitized by t ^ o o Q l e
sl He will build up the low walls of Jerusalem, and
raatablish the gates of Zion; our peace will flow as
d river, and our joy as a mighty stream; and the
;e n ro ll militant will join the church triumphant, to
• praise the Lord in the beauty of holiness. For in
God there is fulness of joy ; and in his right hand
are pleasures for evermore. This is but a faint de­
scription of God, and the pleasures and happiness
of Christ and his kingdom. And now, Satan, I
will give a faint description of thine; as my pen
must come far short to set forth the glory of Christ
and his kingdom; and the misery 6f thine, O Sa­
tan, which is strife,'envy, hatred* malice, murder,
and the destruction of every happiness in life. It
is called a hell where thou art, and dost thou think
to gain one vote out of a thousand to bring in a
hell here upon earth r For such, men must wish to
bring ip,: ifj^&ey vote for thee. So I know thou
wilt never.'^dBkAhe kingdom by votes ; for thy
. friends wilfawwfceive thee, and forsake thee, when
they are tried. Instead of gaining a thousand to a
hundred; thou wilt not gain one out of a thousand.
Nay, 1 should think' there could not be such a
monster upon earth,, to .vote for thee to bring a
hell here upofi earth, when every siuner is afraid
to go to hell after death. >
•
Satan. Thou bitch of hell! Is this the manner
thou intendest to set forth the two kingdoms, and
send them out in the world ?
Joanna. Yes, this is the very truth of both king­
doms—and the truth I mean to publish to the
world. For I have heard the different voices of
both. The voice of C hrist is* love, happiness,
peace, as that of a father, a brother, a friend, a
husband, and protector from a l l daugers, leading
to all perfect happiness. But thy voice is horror,
which fills the heart with thy appearance, threaten­
ing destruction, if the Lord would give thee power.
Let the world see thy threatenings, and thy ma­
39
Digitized by t j O O Q l e
lice; then see, if thou canst gain any vote. This
was thy own proposal, to resign the kingdom, if
thou didst not gam it by most votes. If Christ has
more to vote for his kingdom, than thou hast for
thine; thou hast consented to resign thy footing
here; and to confess Christ has got it by justice.
So, now it is come to thy own just proposal; an<l
wilt thou find fault now ? Then thou fiodest fault
against thy own justice: but by thy own justiee
and equity thou wilt surely fall: for thou koowest
no one loves thee—but as for the Lord, thousands
have died for his sake.
Satan. Thou infernal b itch ! But seven days
hath the Lord given to contend with thee ? It re*
quires seven years to call all hell for council, which
way to foil thee. There is not a devil in hell that
is a match for thee. Could I have thought thou
wouldest have given such an answer as that ?
Joanna. W hat answer couldest thou think to
have ? Thou sayest, thou wilt gaiu the day by
most votes, as a parliament man is chosen; and he
that hath most votes gains the day. So now, I
*ay, with Jehu, Who is on Christ’s side? Who? I
know they will do as they did by Jezebel—throw
thee dow n: thou wilt not gain one vote, as a par­
liament man doth, it is my opinion : and so 1snail
give thee the trial
Satan. No, if thou murderest my character in
that manner, I shall lose the day by a cursed wo­
man : but let me speak for myself. If they will
choose me, I have millions of money, and I wiH
give it to them. So if thou do justice, let this go
in print also. For hell is richer than the earth:
and I will give leave for every pleasure they can
wish; and not confine them to sit moping in
churches; but enjoy their time in a round of plea­
sure ; and every man shall enjoy his own humour.
I will confine them to nothing, but what their
hearts lust after.
40
Dii litized by C j O O Q l e
Joanna. Now, thou devil! tliou hast discovered
thy cloven foot. The fear of God, the love of
God, the praise and worship of God, thou wantest
to destroy, and take from the Lord the glory due
unto his name. Now, let thee and thy money
perish with thee: hell from beneath is moved for
thee, to meet thee at thy com ing.' Dost thou think,
thou devil, that man can prove so ungrateful, as to
renounce tlie God of every love, the God that
created us, the Father that hath preserved us, the
Saviour that died to redeem us, to pluck us as
brands from thy burning? O thou devil, thy last
speech will warm the hearts of God’s people to aa-^
ger and indignation agaipst thee; ana make them
that serve thee ashamed of their neglect. No, Sa~
tan, God’s honour and worship cannot, nor will not
he destroyed by thee. The hearts of Christians wiH
be stirred up to love the blessed Lord the more,
lie hath died once for all; and now the cross must
come on thy guilty head. Men would sooner bring
in a war to light for God, and destroy those that
gave ip their names for thee, sooner than let thee
gain such an election. The whole world will be at
war against thee, sooner than renounce the laws of
God. His worship, praise, and glory, ever will, and .
ever shall be kepc up, while the sun and moon en­
dure. Now, I tell thee, thou hast lost thy election,
by thy last speech, of gaining one vote. I hope
, there is not one such ungrateful monster upon
earth to vote for thee; for the Lord would strike
him dead, and thou oughtest to be struck dead for
thy speech. I see thou wantest to draw all fiotn
God, if thou canst; and to seek the ruin of man,
as thou hast thv own ruin, and the ruin of the fal­
len angels, aud. millions of souls. It is time for
God to cut off thy reign.
My G od! my G od! thy cause maintain;
For Calvary’s blood is not in vain:
But bring the traitor to thy cross,
And let him perish with this dross.
41
Digitized by L r O O Q l e
* And set his kingdom up in hell.
With his infernal host to dwell.
While we shall praise thy holy name,
♦And ever bless thy matchless fame;
While earth's foundation doth endure.
The praises of our God are sure:
And I will ever bless his name,
And earth with me will join the same.
After this answer, Satan left me for some hours,
and then broke in again with these words;
Satan. Satan is handy by thee.
Joanna. What, hath he to say now ?
Satan. I tell thee what he hath to say now : he
let thee alone till thy provoking words were fully
u p ; and now I will answer thee in words from thy
last speech; “ Hell,from beneath, is movedfor thee,
to meet thee at thy coming.” Come down, thou Lu­
cifer, son of the morning; thou that hast advan­
ced thyself to heaven, by thy writings, wilt soon
come down, like one of us. If thou answerest one
word more, and dost not strike out all thou hast
said;—then Satan will forgive thee; aud not else.
Joanna. When I believe there is no God to pro­
tect me, then I shall fear there is a devil to fright­
en me. But as long as there is a God, I will rely
on his power, his protection, his mercy, and his
goodness. I never asked protection from the de­
vil ; nor ever will. My trust is in God, my Maker,
and in Christ my Saviour; and I renounce the
power of the devil. Does Satan think to unthrone
the most high God ? N o ! he will find he is a God
x of power, might, majesty, goodness, and truth.
His honour is engaged to save those who trust in
him. The Lord is my-God; of whom shall I be
afraid ? Christ is my Saviour; whom then shall I
fear ? He died to triumph over hell, death, and the
grave ; and shall hell come to triumph over him ?
No no, proud Lucifer, it is thou hast exalted thy­
self to the heavens;.yea, above the heavens; if
thou couldest make thy power equal to thy words,
42
Digitized by Google
thou wouldest unthrone the Most High: But I
hope thy name will be struck off from the face of
the earth: for thou art bidding defiance to the
power of God, and making thy power superior to
nim. And thus, thou art rewarding him for giving
thee any power upon the earth. And now thou
wantest to rob God of< the creation that he has
made, and to throw off all his worship, and to have
his name clean gone ; by threatenings, to compel
me to fear thy power, above the power.of God—
who hath promised to protect all them that trust
in him ; and that the gates of hell shall not prevail
against them. And wilt thou deny that power,
and exalt thyself above the heavens ? Then now
I shall see which power is supreme, and almighty;
— the power of God, or thine. For I never will
fear thee, as long as 1 have a God to trust to. The
Lord rebuke thee, Satan, for thy boasting power.
My trust is in the God of my salvation—
“ And he will keep me still:
And I with him shall surely stand
On Zion’9holy hill.”
Satan. Thou infamous bitch! to treat the god
of this world with contem pt! Read back what
thou .hast been writing, and I will answer it.
Joanna. 1 am forbid; and I will not. Who
dost thou say I am treating with contempt? Or
whom dost thou call the god of this world ?
Satan. The Lord himself called the devil the
god of this w orld; and him thou art treating with
contempt.
Joanna. I am treating him with that contempt
with which he treated tne Son of God ; and he is
now despising the power of the Most High, by
boasting of superior power to the Lord. If Satan
was then the god of this world, to blind their eyes,
the Lord hath promised, that old things shall be
. done away, and all things become new.
. Satan. Dost thou think God will be as good as
bis .word?
43
Digitized by
Joanna. Yes, lie is the God of tru th : and his
word is Yea, and Amen.
Satan. And dost thou think he will ever have
it in his power to chain down Satan, who is so
great and mighty a being; and who has so many
legions of angels to attend him ?
Joanna. Yes; by the same mighty power by
which lie cast him out of heaven.,..
Satan. Then, by thy account, Satan stands on
slippery ground. And is there no way for his escape
from the power of (rod, and his fierce anger? What
hath provoked him now to be more angry than
ever, that Satan’s ruin must come on so fast ?
Joanna. There is no remedy, unless he repents;
for he is acting now to heap up wrath against the
day of w rath; and he hath reigned so long, lie
wants to reign over the whole, and take the power
out of the hand of the Almighty.
Satan. That is more than 1 knew before. When
or where did he say that? This is something new
to me. '
Joanna. Where hast thou been ? Or what hast
thou heard ? Hath not Satan threatened my life,
if I would not disobey the commands of God, to
please him ; and fear his power, more than I feared
that of the Lord ? Is not this bidding defiance to
the power of God, and compelling those that love
and fear him, to deny his power, and doubt hia
protection ? As if the greatest power was in the
devil. Is not this threatening power of Satan,
making himself greater than the power of God,
who made us ? And for his pleasure we are, and
were created, and not for the devil. Then what
right has Satan to compef u» to obey him ?
Satan, I am not Satan; but his friend, Apol-
lyon. Thou hast angered the devil, and he is gone
away in great wrath against thee. I am come to
pacify it, and make friends if I can, that he may
not tear thee in pieces before the morning. W hat,
«
, dost thou laugh at my kindness, when 1 am coma
44
Digitized by L r O O Q l e
to save thee from the bottomless pit, which Satan
is gone to heat seven times hotter than usual, to put
thee in before the morning if thou dost not blot,
out what thou hast written against him ? Do not
put so much trust in thy G o d ; he hath often de­
ceived thee, and will again. For now call to thy
remembrance, he deceived thee about thy father,
and the death o f " ■
■ ; and there are many things
I can mention; therefore, lie may deceive thee
now ; and then thou wilt be for ever in flames, and
suffer the worst of torments, if tbon dost not do as
I tell thee; fpr there is no more dependence on thy
God, than on the paper thou writest on. I must
confess, if thy writings had all come.true, I should
be in some fear of danger; but seeing God saith
one thing, aod meaneth another,! am no more afraid
of him, than I am of thee: for I know he cannot
perform his promise, nor fulfil his word; but Satan
can—his power is fair superior to the Lord’s. So
that thou hadst best comply, and all will be well
with thee. If not, thy end must be fatal before
the morning.
Joanna. 'W hat a fool m ost I be, to rely on a
friend from hell, whose ways in every step I hate ?
I know, if Satan can have the power over me, I
shall see what a wretch he is before the morning..
But I will not renounce my faith in God, for all the
devils in hell. I will see now, whether the Lord
is not as good as his word. 1 believe in the un­
bounded mercies of God, and his protection: and
my faith in him I will not give up. But what makes
Satan, and thee, Apollvon, so eager to gain my faith,
in thee? Dost thou think thou hast Eve to tempt
now ? She did not know thy arts ; but I d o and
the more thou temptest, the more strongly will I
stand in the God of my salvation. So these arts
will never do. Is this the king thou wantest me
to serve,, and fear, that is gone to seek my destruc­
tion ! N o ; I will not fear him, nor any of his
threatenings; they are all in vain. I know the
45
Digitized by Google
Lord, and him only will I serve, love, and obey.
So come no more with a razor dipt in oil to cut my
throat. He that is gone to heat the furnace, may
fall into it himself: hut my trust is in the God of
my salvation. Him will I love, serve, and obey :
and now I speak boldly,—if God will not save me,
as he hath promised, l will not resign one thought
to the devil for his protection. So now, if thou
hast another subject to enter into, I am ordered by
the Lord to pen it. But these arguments are fruit­
less. I have given my hand once, thrice, and
again : I will not do one thing that Satan desires
me, if I know i t : but to please the Lord, and obey
his commands, I will run to the hazard of my life.
By him alone I now stand or fall.
Apollyon. Then now thou hast brought on thy
utter ruin.
Joanna. The Lord will keep me from danger;
and if he forsakes me, I know 1 am undone: but I
will still trust in him.
Apollyon. If the Lord don’t deceive thee, the de­
vil hath deceived me. For I will confess his power
is- not so great, as he saith, if thou ever seest the
light of another morning in this world— which I
am sure thou never wilt, if thou dost not renounce
thy faith.
Joanna. I never will, nor ever shall renounce my
faith in the true and living God: whose power is
alm ighty; and he is able to save to the uttermost
all who trust in him—aud in him is all my trust.
Apollyon. I do not want thee to give up thy faith
in God,—only do as Satan desires thee—Blot out
what thou hast said against him.
Joanna: I cannot serve two masters: and thou
art acting to make me say so much more against
him ; for I find altogether the devils are worse and
worse; and would not only rob God of his people,
by temptations ; but want to do it by compulsion.
— Sol will not keep penning such blasphemy agai nst
the Lord. It is written, “ thou shalt worship tb-
46
Digitized by Google
Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve
and if I obey the devil, I do not obey the Lord.
Apollyon. Then now I tell thee thou hast written
many things the devil told thee, and the Lord did
not contradict him, but let him tell thee lies ; and
how cans$ thou rely on 6uch a faithless God r W hat
was told thee o f--------- 's hasty death was from the
devil, who thought to foil you all by that lie; and
there be many things in thy writings that come
from the devil.
Joanna. Then now I have more reason to be­
lieve all that comes from God is true. He might
have wise ends in permitting the devil to tell me
lies. I cannot direct the hand of the A lm ig h ty :
His wisdom cannot e rr: but that was not obey­
ing the command of the devil; for I did not know
it. So now I know in whom I have believed; and,
from thy own words, I know what is not-true came
from the devil.
Apollyon. Do not say all that is not true comes
from the devil: For now I tell thee, as much as thy
confidence is in the Lord, he is not the God of
truth. He hath deceived angels, devils, and men;
and this night he will deceive thee. He is not as
good, nor as great, as thou judgest him to be.
Dost thou think the'angels, the third part, would
come out of heaven, if God had been as good as
thou judgest him to be ? 1 tell thee n o : Heaven is
not a place of happiness: Hell is the place for plea­
sure: and none but fools go to heaven. It is the
wise and learned go to hell. Thou knowest not
what God is—a proud tyrant, who wants to keep
all in subjection to him. This I should not have'
told thee, if thou hadst not written against Satan,
and his kingdom ; so it is thy ownrfault, 1 now
tell thee what God is, and what a deceitful'being,
he is.
Joanna. I do not want to ask such a lying, aban­
doned wretch, as thou art, what God is. For I ■
kuow him to .be all that is good, gracious, merci-
47
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
ini, just, and true; wondrous in wisdom, good­
ness, and tru th : and the devil’s being cast out of
heaven, sheweth the worth, excellency, might, and
majesty, of God, to shine the brighter. For what
heaven or happiness can there be, where the devil
and fallen angels are ? Their very influence is a
hell. Then bow dreadful must it be where they
v are embodied ? Oh, thou abandoned wretch! Why
wilt thou'thus abuse the patience and long-for­
bearance of the Lord, that did not deal with thee
according to thy deserts, to chain thee down,when
thou turnedst heaven into confusion, andwouldest
have turned it into a hell, if thou hadst not been
cast out. The goodness of God shineth in all his
works, and his wisdom in all his ways. Oh, the
long-forbearing patience of the Lord ! How is it
thus abused, his goodness and long-suffering, to
give thee and Satan any power to reign at a ll! Oh,
the horror of the language of thy w ords! But the
feeling of God’s Spirit is an heaven ; and the feel­
ing ot thine is an hell. Now, thou must confess
God’s sentence just, to chain thee down, w ith the
fallen angels, and thy rebellious host. Oh, tbou
cruel, hardened w retch! thou art not of a spirit lit
for heaven. The power and goodness of God is
too great, and too good for thee: but I see his
wisdom to suffer thee to speak for thyself, and to
liave me pen what thou hast to invent agai«6t the
L ord; and he will rebuke thee, O Satan, and thy
just sentence is passed on thee. O, thou monster
of nature! My soul, praise thou the most high
God ; and let my heart be filled with his good­
ness ! W hat thou hast to say, say quickly: for the
sword of the Lord is drawn against tnee : thou
art lying against God, who has shewed thee so
much mercy.
Apollyon. I have not told thee half the worst of
God yet. Thou knowest it is written, he is a con­
suming fire: and who can dwell in everlasting,
burnings ? Who could abide in devouring flames ?
46
-Digitized by L j O O Q l e
Our backs are not brass, nor our sinews iron, to
dwell with God in heaven. Besides, his pride no
one could bear.
Joanna. Thou confounded liar ! Thou goest from
one thing to another, full of lies. Thou sayest hell
is a place of fire, and sayest Satan is gone to heat the
furnace seven times hotter than usual to burn me in
it, because I will not worship him ; now, here thou
hast confessed the devil to be a complete fiery ser­
pent, to put into the flames those he has power over.'
Yet, thou confessest, the Lord, that is full of might,
majesty, and power, did but cast the devils and fallen
angels out of heaven for their rebellion there; and
had he not continued to make the creation of the
Lord wretched and miserable, and tempted them to
sin, he would never have been CasJ farther; but Sa­
tan is still rebelling on earth, as he did in heaven,
running from one fire to another. It is a mercy, that
God is a consuming fire, to bum up and consume
the fire of hell, that he is working against men to de­
stroy them : but dost thou presume to tell a lie that
every man would laugh at ? To say the heavens were
burning in fire, that the angels could not abide there?
Then, they must all have left it: so bring forth no
more such unlikely lies. For now I see, from the
first to the last, thou contradictcst thyself. In one
place, thou sayesfGod is too full of majesty to con­
descend to reveal his will to m e; and thou wantest
to persuade me my writings were from the devil, or
some of his host; and now, thou waptest me to de­
stroy them, after confessing they were of G od: and
wantest me todestroy his covenant; and then, mak-
est proposals thyself for Satan; and runnest from
them again with threatenings on me, if they were
not destroyed. When that would not do, thou
contest with blasphemy against the Most High ; as
(bough thou wantest to pull down divine vengeance
upon thy guilty head. O h ! for shame, look back­
ward, and see thy -folly—how many different forms
D
49
Digitized by Google
thou hast appeared in, to thy own ruin and confu-
sion! Implore protection of heaven, before that God
(who thou sayest is.a consuming fire) consumes thee
in the fierceness of his anger, and burns thee up in
his hot displeasure:—then see, if thy back be brass,
and thy sinews iron, that thou canst abide in everlast­
ing burnings, and if thou canst dwell in devouring
flames* I think, thou art heating the furnace for
thyself, to pull down divine vengeance upon thy
bwb head. Oh, repent, and implore God's mercies,
before it is too late; lest thou shouldest provoke
him to be a consuming fire, to consume thee in the
fierceness of his anger.
Apollyon. Thou silly fool! Dost thou think, if we
did not know that the power of Satan was greater
than the power of God, we would ever have joined
him ? I tell thee, no. Satan’s power is greatest;
and that thou wilt find before the morning, if thou
dost not worship him.
Joanna. Silly, silly Apollyon! Why then did not
Satan abide in heaven, when he had the third part
of heaven to join him ? Why did he give up his
place there, if his power was greatest ? No, blessed
be God, h i s p o w e r i s t h e g r e a t e s t .
[After a long pause of some hours.]
Satan. Satan is come to ask pardon of God and
thee. \
Joanna. To the most high God he must go for
pardon.
Satan. Thou fool! Dost thou judge I was come
to ask pardon of God, or thee, in earnest ? N o ; I
come to mock thy ignorance, to think devils could
repent, or ever would.
Joanna. If thou, O Satan, art so hardened, and
not contented to tempt people to follow thee, but to
threaten their destruction, it they will not obey thee;
thou must take the event that follows. The works of
creation were the Lord’s : He made us, and hath
promised to redeem us from the power of death,
50
ligitized by Google
hell, and sin—and we are commanded to worship
the Lord our God, and him only tp love, serve, and
obey: and him only will I obey. I own but one
Master, and. but one will I se rv e a n d that is the
THREE-ONEiGoD. •
Satan, Wilt thou run the hazard of thy life, to
see if the power of God be superior to mine ? W ilt
thou not recent at all, to pacify my anger ?
Joanna. Shall I give up the faith, hope, and
trust, I have in God my M aker, and in Jesus Christ
my Redeemer, for fear of thee, Q Satan ? N o ; not
for the world. I would sooner give up my life; than
my faith; and thou must answer to God for threaten­
ing my life, because I would not obey thee.
So come. Lord Jesus, Oh ! come quickly,
Let thy dying love appear—
Let me know thou art my Saviour,
Thou died’st my every guilt to clear.
Satan. Is it impossible to make thee fear r Thou
fool, that is the very way to cast Satan—to say he
bath robbed him of the Bride. If thou wilt give up
to me, I shall be cast before the morning.
Jpanna. Thou artful devil! Thou hast made an
ignorant speech now, like all the rest. A man is cast
for tempting the Bride: but thou threatenest vio­
lence and her life, if she will not resign to thee, and
Sive up her confidence in her God and her dear Re-
eemer. I would sooner die .with him, than deny
him.
Satan. In whose strength dost thou speak these
words?
Joanna. In the strength of' my Lord, that hath
promised the gates of hell shall not prevail against
me. And on his word and honojur I. rely.
End of the Fifth Day's Disputation.
© 2
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
• » <2
THE SIXTH DAY’S DISPUTE.
SUNDAY, A u g u s t 8 , 1 8 0 2 .
S a t a n .
I HAVE not done with thee yet. Dost thou
think that I, who am a devil, that the third part of
heaven and earth worship, will give up to a poor,
low-bred bitch of a woman ? Why, thou fool! I have
only preserved thee ibr the last day’s punishment.
I see what a hardened wretch thou a rt; and I will
deal with thee accordingly, if thou answerest me
again. Shall a woman have the last word of her
master ?
Joanna. Thou art not come with that assurance,
Satan, to call thyself my roaster! Thou wilt not dare
to have the confidence, to say thou art the master of
the creation, and take from the Lord the glory due j
unto his name ! God is my .Maker, my Master, and
my Father; and in him is my obedience, to do as he
commands me. As to thee, Satan, I never served
thee in my life. I hated thee from a child ; for thy
name and nature were hateful to me. To read the suf­
ferings of Christ; what he suffered through thy hel­
lish arts, by working in men, made me love him, and
hate thee. The scripture says, His servants ye are,
to whom ye yield yourselves servants to obey; and
I never yielded myself to obey thee, Satan. But
noWfheaven and earth are witness against thee: thou
art come to call thyself my master, and claim autho­
rity over me. Now, if God had not cast thee out
of heaven, thou wouldest have claimed the same au­
thority there, and said, as thou liadst the third part>
thou wouldest command the rest, to shew thy power;
and so try to unthrone the most high God, or make
thyself a king in his stead; if he had not cast thee
out. So thou and all thy angels must confess thou
art justly cast from heaven. And now earth is the
------Digitized by Google
same;—for the earth is the Lord’s, and all that dwell
therein. But if thou callest thyself my master, thou*,
must rob God of his honour and of his power. For,
by our own masters, we must stand or fall.' N ow,
tnou sayest, thou wilt stand or fall by Election ,• but*
thou art come to demand subjects, and not mtreat
them—as man entreats man for votes. But thou art ,
come to compel; and so thou wilt go and frighten
people, and make them believe thy power is superior
to the power of God. But’know, O Satan, God is.
God, and there is none beside him. His power, nor
his honour, he will never give to another. He thaf .
gives life, hath power to take it. He that made man,
hath power to destroy him. He that filleth the hea­
vens with his majesty, hath power to fill earth with
his goodness. Thou assumest power that is not thy
own. .God is my Master, my Father, and my Pro­
tector. But if thou wilt come with these threaten-
ings to me, what wilt thou not do to others ? W ilt
thou go on, till thou has frightened the whole creation
out of their lives and senses, and destroyed the works
of the Lord ; if he do not cut short thy power, and
Shew that he is the all-powerful God Himself? And
now, I hope and trust, he will redeem us according
to his promise : and destroy all thy hellish arts, that
are more than the sands upon the sea-shore: usurping
power that is not thy own : bidding defiance to the
power of the Most High : inventing lies against his
divine majesty and goodness, for which thou art
justly cast. The Lord judged between me and thee,
O Satan : who could withstand thy hellish arts, if
the Lord'is not with us to protect and keep us from
thy power ? Blessed be God, all power is in his
hand.—So, glory, honour, praise and power be unto'
the Lamb for ever: who hath promised to save to the-
utmost all who trust in him. Answer for thyself, Sa­
tan; for thou usurpest power that is not thy own.
Satan. W rite Satan, and no more.
Joanna. O ! silly Satan—if thou didst cast thyseli
■out cf heaven, do not think to pull me out also; for
Digitized by Google
54
I hope one day to go to the blessed mansions thou
hast left.
' Satan. It is as good to be killed for an old sheep, as
for a young lam b; and now I have a great deal to
say. I have heard all the damned nonsense thou
hast runned on w ith; answer that, if thou canst.
Joanna. Thou art as hardened a wretch as thou
calledst m e; and thou art heaping up wrath against
the day of w rath: for now, I perceive, thou hast
been guilty of killing both; the old sheep, and the
young lamb too. ror. thou first betrayedst the wo­
man, and broughtest death on her—and next entered
into Judas, to kill her son also. So now thou must
be cast for both.
Satan. Damn thee, and thy answer too.
Joanna. That is out of thy power, to damn my
answer: but thou art bringing thy words on thy own
head.
Satan. Suppose thou shouldest be deceived in thy
writings, as not coming from God ; then thou know-
est thou hast incurred the wrath of God against thee;
for now I will call to thy remembrance, there are
many false things in them. Thou wast to be bad in
Wilson’s room i and that is not true. The harvest
was to be w et; and that is not true; for the weather
is very fine. 1 can point out many things to shake
thy faith; and if thou hast forged the name of the
Lord, thou art undone. And now thou art provok­
ing the wrath of the devil against thee; if thou an-
swerest me again, I now tell thee thy fate—death
and hell are tny portion; for thou must see thyself
deceived already; and thou wilt find thyself deceiv­
ed again. So now give it up, and 1 will leave thee ;
but it thou answerest me again, I will not shew thee
any mercy at all.
Joanna. I shall answer the whole.—Whether my
writings are all true or not; I believe them to be from
the Lord, from the many truths, which have followed
them every year •
, and from the manner they are spo­
ken. Now', Satan, I am truly convinced they never
Digitized by t ^ o o Q l e
-came from thee; thy heart is too much at enmity
against God, tospeakofhisgoodfiess, mercy, or truth.
Thou art too full of thy own power, in thy speeches,
to exalt the power of God, and cast down thy own.
From thy own mouth do I believe my writings to
be from the Lord. Thou art, in every shape, such
a devil as is told m e; and the eye of the Lord is
every where present; if it had not been from him,he
would have convinced me for years agone, and not
suffer so many truths to support a wrong spirit to de­
ceive me. The Lord is a God hearing and answer­
ing prayer; and he knew my heart,that I would not
offend him for the world, if 1 knew it. But dust and
ashes cannot be judges of the invisible spirits, from
whence they come, or whither they go. They can
only judge by their language.—All that is good is
of God: all that is evil is from the devil.—Sol Car­
not judge any good comes from him. God is good;
and in him will I trust. He will not go from his
w ord; he hath promised to protect those that trust
in him ; and I will not trust the devil; for he was a
Jiar from the beginning. With lies he betrayed the
woman at first; but now, 1 hope the Lord will make
thy words true—We shall be as gods, knowing good
from evil. Now, Satan, answer to that lie, thou
toldest the woman at first; how we were to be as
gods, knowing good from evil ?
Satan. I will tell thee, and prove the truth of'my
words, and make it plain before thy eyes; and open
such a mystery to thee, as thou never knewest in thy
life, if thou wilt promise not to answer me again.,
Joanna. I do not want any of thy knowledge ;
for, as thou toldest lies at first; so thou wilt at Last.
I shall not give it up to thee, for all the knowledge
thou hast got It never did thee any good, nor any
that ever hearkened to it. I have seen the folly of
Eve in listening to thy lies: and by others harm I
have learnt to be wise. If Eve was living now, an$l
knew thy arts and lies, as well as I do, she would
never have hearkened to them. We have felt the
55
Digitized by Google
fatal effects of her listening to thee, and doing qs
thou baddest her. But 1would sooner die, than obey
•thee in one thing. No, no, Satan, thy honour is not
trust-worthy. Look to Eve, and see if a woman
must not be a fool to trust thee at all, when she
knoweth thee: Eve did not know that thou wast such
a notorious liar; but 1 do, and will never trust thee.
There is no truth in thee. Thou canst not answer
that lie, nor make good thy words. So I will never
trust a liar.
Sa/an. Then 1 will never fear a liar. For God
was a liar from the beginning. He said, the day they
eat the forbidden fruit, they should surely die; and
that was a damned lie. So, what have 1 to fear from
the power of God, or what hast thou to trust to?
Joanna. Now, Satan, my answer is ready for thee.
Out of thy own mouth do 1 condemn thee. Thou
didst go to Eve with murder in thy heart. Thou didst
not know what death the Lord m eant; but wast in
hopes they would both have been struck dead that
day. So thou didst go with a lie of murder in thy
mouth; telling them they should be as Gods, knowing
good from evil, on purpose to murder the man and
woman, and destroy the creation of God at once.
(Satan. So I should, if God had not been such a
damned liar. Then my words would have been true,
for they would have known— .
Joanna. Known what? That thou wasi a devil,
full of evil ? And dost thou think the Lord would
have sent them to hell with thee ?
Satan. Yes, to be sure. If they disobeyed, as I
did, why not come with me ? Why should God make
fish of one, and flesh of another? Were not the an­
gels in heaven of much more consequence, than the
dirt of the ground, that was gathered up.and made
into a man ? What mighty worm was lie, to have
more favour shewed him than the angels in heaven,
that God had made his companions ? Now answer
me that, if thou canst. But here \ know thou
art foiled :-^-so when I come to the fqil moon, thou
56
Digitized by Google
■wilt find I give as great a light as the Son. For it is
not all the men upon earth that can answer th a t; to
say, it was just in God to shew more favour to man,
created of the dust of the ground, than he shewed
to angels in heaven, whose life came from golden
orbs. And no. man can say God did not tell a lie,
to say man should die that day. Now, if thou sayest
one day with the Lord is a thousand years; then I
, must have seven thousand years to contend with thee;
or God must go from his w ord: but I know there
is no trust to his word, and do but laugh at all his
threatenings, as thou laughest at mine,
Joanna. Out of thy own mouth <^o I condemn
thee, and answer thee from thy own,words. Thou
thoughtest God was another such as fhyselt; unjust,
unmerciful, and cruel. Thou sayest tnou didst go to
Eve with arts and lies, telling her thfy should be as
gods, knoiving good from evil, on purpose to mur*
der them both, and bring them to hell in one day,
and destroy the works ot God at once. So thou con-
fessest thyself a liar and a murderer from the begin*
niog, and thy heart at enmity against Gad, to de­
stroy the works of his hands. Now, silly Satan, if
this is thy full moon, it is time to abate; for now I
perceive all thy light to shine in darkness. For God
must have been another such as thyself, to enter into
as strict a judgment with man, that was betrayed
by thy subtle arts, through ignorance, not knowing
there was such an artful devil, to come with lies.
They knew nothing of lies. Both confessed the
truth, as soon as the Lord came. They did not tell
lies, to say they had not eaten the fruit: but told
the perfect truth how they v/ere betrayed; and from
thy own mouth thou wast the liar and the murderer.
Tnen how couldest thou expect any favour,- who
first rebelled in heaven against light and knowledge;
and wast at enmity against God, because he was
not such a wretched being as thyself ? For now I
perceive, from thy own words, thou art angry with
God, because he is good, and thou art evil. So now
57 t,
Digitized by Google
I own thou hast made good thy words, though thou
never didst intend it. Thou hast tokl the truth for
once, and discovered thy own shame; viz. how th e
poor woman came to the knowledge ot the evil;
but was immediately struck deadas to the knowledge
o f the good. Here was a death'stroke on man at
once. He that was before in favour with his God,
in the Garden of Eden, in a place of perfect happi-'
ness, in communion with his God, happy with his
partner, and knew nothing of sin or sorrow, in one
day to be stripped of all! Betrayed by the devil;
naked before his M aker; and to meet an angry
God, whom he fled from ; and to lose all perfection
of perfect happiness at once ; and dead as to the
knowledge of nis Maker—Oh, what a death-stroke
came to both at once! Like the sword going through
the woman’s soul, when she saw her Son on the
Cross! It was a sword of sorrow cutting through
her soul; but not a temporal sword : and so was
Adam’s, that very way, a death-stroke in sorrow and
sin. Worse than death must have been his feelings.
He had a fatal death immediately struck on him.
So God did not lie; but told the perfect truth. One
day, is but one day : but what the Lord meant by
his saying* one day was with him-as a thousand
years; meant the seven days of the creation to be
seven thousand years to the Anal day of judgment.
But a day is but a day: and thy seven days are up
next Monday, and'thou must leave me and answer
for thyself to the Lord. And now, I call God to
judge between me and thee. How couldest thou
judge, that a merciful God should have shewed no
mercy or pity upon man, who was so artfully betray­
ed, and humbled himself in the dust before the Lord,
blaming their own folly for hearkening to thee ? The
Lord well knew what a wretch betrayed them. If
thou couldest not have tempted her with lies, I
suppose thou didst go as a -serpent to threaten to
sting her, as thou hast now threatened me, if I will
not disobey the commands of God, and obey thee,
- 58
Digitized by t ^ o o Q l e
Now cainst thou, or thy angels, judge, that such a
being can find favour with God, who despised his
power, might, majesty, and goodness, and wanted
to have power over the Most High ? But as to man,
he sought his favour and protection; and the Lord
never said,, seek ye my face in vain. So now, S a-.
tan, see, if thou canst say, God ought to have saved
the murderer, and destroyed him that was betrayed
by thy arts ? For thou confessest thyselfto have been
the liar and the murderer. W hat thou hast now to
sav, say quickly. Thou canst not deny the justice
o f God, either in creation, or in preservation. Now
thou hast discovered thou art the evil fruit; and I
have discovered the Lord is the good fruit, who hath
kept me from thy power.
Satan. Satan is not silent to that answer; for thou
roakest him a complete devil there: but I am come
to clear his character; and now I’ll clear it.
Joanna. How canst thou clear it ? Out of his own
mouth do I condemn him. For he made himselfthe
murderer and the liar; and that he cannot deny.
For if God had struck them dead, as he said, ancl
they had gone with thee, they could .not have been
as gods, nor known any good at all. So he confess­
ed he aimed.at murder, by telling the lie; and made
himself'a complete devil from hts own mouth.
Satan. Then now I will condemn thee from thy
own mouth. Thou sayest God must be like the de­
vil, to enter into as strict judgment with man, as he
was artfully betrayed; and yet thou sayest, worse
than death fell upon him. How canst thou clear
that ? Was not God as bad as the devil, and worse,
when he knowed, as thou sayest, what a wretch be­
trayed them r God ought not to cast them out of the
Garden of Eden; for I now would not be angry
with thee, if thou gavest up thy hand ta rpe; I would
love thee above ail women in the world, and make
thee queen of all my palace: which is a very fine
one; and thou shouldest reign as the brightest wo­
man that ever was born.
$9
Digitized by Google
Joanna. I cannot, nor will not, hear such cursed
nonsense; for here thou enragest my soul, and rn a-
kest my heart bum with indignation against thee ;
the more, to hear of thy hellish pleasure and th y
hateful nonsense, th at' is full of deadly poison. I
hate and despise all thy arts, words, and ways. Is
this the way thou drawest in the simple and unwary
into misery ? I was ordered to write what thou hast
to say for thyself, of the justness of thy sentence ; and
now the Lord will give it up to thy proposals, to
be tried by election, as a man is tried—and see if
thou gainest any votes. But, 1 believe thou w ilt
gain ,none. • Thou hast discovered too many arts to
gain any credit. But, silly Satan, how^ouldest thou
presume to flatter me, to leave my God and Saviour,
to worship thee ? Oh, thou hardened wretch! such
ways must bring down divine vengeance on thy head.
As much as thou sayest thou laughest at the threaten-
ings of G od; so thou wilt And God will laugh at all
thy threatenings to me, and let thee know he is the
all-wise and all-powerful God.—[But here the Spi­
rit of the Lord broke in upon me with power.]
" Now Hainan’s gallows shall for thee appear,
1*11 be her king, and now 111 conquer here.
Now Satan, now, 1 bid thee to stand mute,
Untyl to-morrow dare for to dispute.
For I shall answer now the woman’s hand,
And then to-morrow as her judge 1
*
1
1 stand.
To judge the woman 1 shall now begin ;
Her strong temptations throughout have seen.
With love and courage standing for her Lord,
The God of heaven will her now reward ;
And Jah, Jehovah, surety is my name ;
And now, O Satan, thee 111 put to shame.
Justly thou art cast, and justly thou art tried,
And by the Woman art thou now denied ;
And by the Woman thou art now reprov’d ;
And by the Woman is the Saviour’s love:
And by the Woman now thy strength must foil :
1 said I’d conquer, and I’ll conquer all.
For by thy threatenings thou no more shall boost \
For by that way thy power sjiall now be lost.
60
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
. 61
Proud Lucifer, dost thou intend to swell.
To boast of armies thou hast got in hell ?”
E nd of the Sixth Day's Disputation.
These following lines were given by the Spirit on
the Monday morning, before the Powers of Dark*
ness broke in upon her.
#r Or dost thou think a traitor for to reign ?
To compel by armies thou can’st never gain ?
No, no, I say, thy candle’s clean gone out;
Thou hast not one snuff that’
* left again to light.
But all shall know my candle now is here,
And as the woman’s faith doth so appear,
To run such hazards for her Master’s sake,
When thou didst say the flames of hell should break
With fury on her, if she’d not resign
Her hand and heart to thee; that’s surely mine;
Then now, thou art come to rob me of my bride,
By every threatening thou hast here applied ;
And when thy hellish fury would not do, *»
Pretend to love, that thou didst never know.
The tender feelings of the female’s breast ,
Were never in thy hellish heart possess’d,
Nor love, nor pity $ but for to destroy,
Her utter riiin thou didst ever lay.
From thy confession thou hast spoke the whole:
• • And now I’ll bind thee to election’s pole.
But for to threaten it is all in vain ;
I have kept the woman, and 1
*
1
1 now keep men.
With equal power for to keep my Land;
And every membor that for me docs stand,
I’ll keep as firm, as 1 have kept the bride;
For now my Gospel shall be dl applied.
AU manner q f sins I now will put away ;
And every member 1 Krill novoforgive
That signs his name to have my Kingdom come;
But now the fata! sin must be made known*
If there is one so boldly votes for thee.
In hell, 1 tell them, they shall ever l)e ;
For that’s a sin shall never be forgiven,
If man does wish to rob the God of heaven
O f the creation he did make at first;
Then there the fury of the Lord shall burst;
With indignation he will then appear;
And that’s a sin their Maker will not dear.
Digitized by Google
Because my kingdom I will ne'er resign;
But by election gain the kingdom mine.
For as thou saj’at I acted so unjust,
To have my anger upon man to burst,
That by a villain's arts who was betray'd;
Then now that vengeance shall come on thy head ;
For as thou sa\’st thou want’st to have them all,
1 plainly tell thee thou shalt surely fall.
For now in justice I will all appear.
And from thy mouth I will condemn thee here;
Because thou say’st I act unjust with man,
As by thy arts thou laid'st such wretched plan,
As nought but murder then was in thy heart;
And now for murder I shall lay the dart;
And all thy lies Til call to just account;
And if they’re number'd tell thee how they’mount;
For all thou’st spoken, Satan, is a lie,
Unless it was, that man thou wish’d to die;
And there thy words I will confess them true;
For nought but murder lay before thy view;
And now that murder I’ll turn back oy man,
And like my Bible now’s my every plan.
For whosoever sheddeth man’s blood, by man shall
hisblood be shed. Thou sayest thysejf thou didst
go to shed man’s blood at first; and now man shall
shed thine at last. Thou sayest thou wantest to
take all the kingdom from m b ; for it is the G o d
of heaven that now speaketh in the w o m a n ; and
now, Satan, thy time is short; and I will take all
the kingdom from thee; for thou sayest thou art
willing to take all or leave all as most votes carry
the day; so now answer to the God of heaven for
thyself.”
■ —— ■ - - ....u., ■
■
■
—
. . <
■
'. ..a..
THE SEVENTH DAY’S DISPUTE.
62
MONDAY, A ugust 9, 1802.
Satan.
SATAN goes from his word.
Joanna. The God of Heaven is not to be trifled
with in that manner. The Lord will hold thee to
thy word.
1 J '
)
Digitized by Google
Satan. Then l am betrayed by a cursed, cursed
woman.
Joanna. Then now, Satan, thou must say, as
Adoni-bezec d id : “ as I have done to others, so the
Lord hath requited me.” Justice hath now over­
taken thee* God is just with thee in the end. Thou
didst seek to betray the woman at first; and now
thou sayest she hath betrayed thee at last. Thou
didst try to make her cursed, and now that curse is
come upon thy head; so thou hast brought upon
thyself the woman’s curse ; and now thou canst not
say God is unjust: for thou must confess that justice
has overtaken thee. Thou hast dug the pit, and
hast fallen into it. Thou art caught m a net by thy
own feet. Thou didst lay a trap for h er; and now
thou art fallen into it thyself. So now confess God
is just and true. He hath caused enmity between
me and thee, Satan ; and thy head must be bruised:
for that was the promise made to the woman by the
.God of Truth.
Satan. Why, that curse was laid on the Serpent,,
. qnd not on the Devil.
Joanna. And dost thou not say thou wast that Ser-.
pent, and should have destroyed the whole creation
at once, if God had kept his word ? Thou sayest thy­
self, Satan, thou didst go with a lie to have them both
struck dead, and destroy the works of God at once:
and now the Lord will destroy thy works at once,
Satan. If I am destroyed, U must be by a fair
election. Most votes must carry the day.
Joanna. The Lord hath said it shall be so: but
where, or how, dost thou hope to gain one, when
thy very name is hated throughout the world ? 1
have heard those that serve thee call upon theirMaker
to destroy thee. Where wilt thou gain thy votes ?
Satan. By threatening to destroy them, if they will
not vote for me.
Joanna. But know thy threatenings are of no use.
Thou hast no power to give life, nor to take it. Life
68
Digitized by Google
and death are in the hands of God. Thou hast
threatened my life for seven days following; but
never hadst it in thy power to put it into execution.
Thou secst the God in whom I trusted hath power
to keep me out of thy power and malice. And so
he will keep every member that is for C h r i s t a n d
h i s k i n g d o m , and thou canst have no power
there. But if any wish for thy kingdom, there they
must go with thee. Foit t h e h e a v e n i s G o d ’s
T H R O N E , A N D T H E E A R T H IS H IS F O O T S T O O L ;
AND THE E A R T H IS T H E L o r d ’s A N D T H E
f u l n e s s t h e r e o f . Then where wilt thou go
for thy kingdom ? They that vote for thee must go
with thee:-—so let them choose which kingdom
they will. G o d i s G o d over the whole Earth.
Satan. Satan saith, he has no God but himself.
Joanna. Then he must go to his own kingdom
below. Hell was made for the devil and fallen an­
gels, and for them that deny the God that created
them. So wilt thou not seek the favour of God ♦
and his protection ?
Satan. I despise the favour and protection of
God, as much as thou despisest mine.
Joanna. Then that is very great. For thou art
such a wretched being that I hate thee, and despise
th ee: but God is good, and worthy to be loved,
and worthy to be feared. He protects from dangers
all that trust in him ; but thy protection is to lead
men to be miserable. So I refuse misery, and thou
refusest happiness. And now I know how great
thy hatred is against t h e L o r d . Thou toilt not
A C C E P T O F M E R C Y .
End o f the Seventh Day's Disputation.
64
Digitized by C j O o q I c
Here my readers may marvel at the manner in
which I have placed this book, to see the last first
and the first last. After ending the seven days dis­
pute with the devil, to continue with the dispute
frevious to the seven days. Some readers may say
ought to have placed it in regular succession,
as the dispute took place. I grant I should have
done so, had 1 not been ordered to put the first last,
and the last first:—for so it happened between the
woman and the serpent. That old serpent, called
the devil, overcame the woman by dispute at first
—but then the promise that was made her at first,
is to be fulfilled at last: viz. the yroman to over­
come the serpent and bruise his bead, as he had
bruised her Lord’s heel, who took compassion on
her weakness. Now my readers must remark, it is
the first dispute, which is placed last, that brings us
to tiie m a r r ia g e of the L amb : asman was pro­
nounced dead, and Satan worse than dead ; as his
cursew as pronounced above that of every man.
" Now let men see the mystery—
What curses do appear;
The first was on the serpent** heady
And man his curse did hear;
But now see plain, ye sons of men,
And read your Bibles clear;
No curse upon the w o m a n ’s head,
Was then pronounced there.
So learned men, you may contend,
And read your Bibles through;
No curse was on the woman laid;
And bring all to your view.
Her .sorrows there 1 did declare; ;
And sorrows she-had got:
And sorrows here do so appear,
And men behold your lot.
The w o m a n , see, your curse must free *
For I’d pronounced none
Upon her head, that thfm/was laid;
But made her sorrows known,
That she should come to rescue man, '
When I o’er her did rule,
And on the serpent bring the curse; ' f
For doubly there’t must fall.
. £
65
Digitized by L r O O Q l e
So learned men, no more contend;
Of wisdom none can boast,
That do not see the mystery,
How all my Bible's placed.
The ground was curs'd, and man was cast,
And Cain soon brought it on;
The serpent now shalllick the dust,
And bear the curse for man.
But Pll end here, and say no more,
Till learned men dispute ;
*Tis time to see your Bible's clear;
Or else ye fools stand mute,
Who do begin for to contend,
Like Satan's friends, for hell,
And place my Bible by your beads
In words from him that swelL
*Do I not see, as well as thee,
The Letters that are sent?
; Your names you all may blush to s e e , ...............
When I have shew'd the end,
Who now stand out, so full of doubt,—
My Bible you deny;
But yet are ready to find out,
It you one lip can see.
Then now fina out, with all your doubts.
My Bible how't does stand $
And say, if l db make it true,
All this you mu* command."
The latter part of these lines is a short answer to
the last anonymous letter. His language and argu­
ments, I am sony to observe, seem'to be drawn from
the same source, and similarly applied, as those which
I have been contending with. If the person, who
wrote the anonymous letters, wishes to see them fully
laid before the public, he must be at the expense of
printing them himself.— I never promised to answer
anonymous letters; and unless I feel myself in duty
bound to do so, I never will.
«
■
jf
Digitized by Google
ay
MONDAY, J uly 96, 1802.
The Powers of D arkness broke m upott
J oanna in the follow ing m anner.
Sa t a n .
GOD is a liar. Thy writings are not true. Is
Eastlake convinced, as the Spirit told thee ? Is W.
convinced, as the Spirit told thee? Is Pomeroy
convinced, as the Spirit told thee? Is Moore con­
vinced, as the Spirit told thee r Is Nutcombe con­
vinced, as the Spirit'told thee ? All these must be
convinced, to make thy writings true to be of God.
. Joanna. AH these things may come true; there
is' nothing’impossible with God, who maketh the
blind to see, the deaf to hear, and the lame to walk.
Satan. Is there nothing impossible with God ?
Joanna. There is nothing impossible with God,’
who made the heavens and formed the earth, and
made man out of the dust of the ground, who
made the woman from the bone of the man—made
the seas a dry land, for the children of Israel to
pass over—preserved his people alive in the fiery
furnace'—preserved Daniel in the den of Hons—
made the sun, moon, and stars* to keep their re­
gular hours,—winter and summer to keep theirre-
gutar seasons. — All the wondrous works of the
creation were made by him, who is the L o r d A l­
m i g h t y .
• Satan s'Friend. Thou sayest the Lord isalmighty.
Now, out of thy own mouth will I condemn thee.
And why dost thou say, Satan, or I, am come to
answer tor the devil ? Who is to come to answer
for himself to an ignopnt woman, who does, not
discern what thou wntest,—to say God hath all
power in His hand, and is alm ighty; and yet thou
sayest Satan governs the world ? but do not say
Satan is come so low, to contend with thee; no! I
#11 thee, I amJiis friend, and am come to confound
thee in thy own discourse. For thou sayest, God has
£U<power, and yet thou sayest the devil hath had the
i t
Digitized by Google
reigning power from the foundation of the world
to this day. Now how wilt thou make that good ?
Joanna- Very easy, with the words our dear Re­
deemer said to Pilate—“ Thou couldest have no
power unless it was given thee from above.”
Satan't Friend. Out of thy own mouthdo I con­
demn thee; for he that gave it him hath the greater
wo.
Joanna. 0„ silly head ! Our Saviour said, Ue
that committed him to Pilate had the greater sin;
hut not he that gave Pilate the power; fpr that power
was of G od:—hu t he that committed him to Pilate
Was the devil working in Judas to betray him- So
what hastthou toboast of $ucb an answer*as thou
canst not answer it again ?
Satan's Friend,. Can l oot answer again? AH is
contradictory, from the first to the last*—to say
God is almighty,—and yet the powers of darknfSf
in every age of the world, thou aayest, hw e had
the power to work in the hearts of m
a
n
*todestroy
the power of G o d ; as thou sayest* his Sion was
destroyed—his Disciples destroyed—and the Mar­
tyrs destroyed, by the power of Satan working in
the hearts of men. Now, thou must confess,
Satan is more mighty and more powerful than the
Lord.
Joanna. Now, I may say, “ T he L ord ijebuke
thee, Satan.” Is this the way thou boastest of power,
to say thou art alm ighty, equal with C od, or pow er
sqpreme, because thou canst boast o f all thy hellish
arts and cruelties ? From tby ow n m putb will I con­
dem n th e e : As the Lord gave thee power to shew
W hat a wretched tyrant thou wpuldest be, and b.O
W
-
miserable thou m akest m ankind, and w hajta k in g
thou wan test to be, and to shew thy cursed* w icked
heart, the L ord gave thee pow er;— but as thou,
shyest thou a rt not Satan, but his friend* w ilt thpft
be a friend to such a tyrant, to wbotn the L ord
hath condescended to give power, to shew in W«bak&
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
a manner he would use it; and, like a serpent,
having a spear, to sting to death such as come
near him ? Thus, his friends ought to confess, he
ought to have no power at all. But blessed be the
name ofthe Lord, for having all power in his hands,
to destroy such a tyrant from the face of the earth,
and prove that he is God, almighty in power, wis­
dom, goodness, and truth—The first and the Last
— the Beginning and the Ending—the God of the
whole Earth, that formed us, anti created us—To
his name be praise and honour, wisdom and power,
now and for evermore.
69
Satan’s F rm i. O , thou blasphemer of our king!
Let Satan now his answers bring.
His mighty power dost thou not fear ?
And dost thou laugh these words to hear i
Then now the greatest power thou’lt seej
Our king will shortly visit thee, .
And then his power Will soon be known
And thee, 1 know, he’ll soon unthrone;
And then the power £hou wilt see?
Satan will gain the victory;
For all the Bible he’ll deny;
Satan was never form’d to die.
Joerma. . . . Your mighty king, let him appear;
His power I all deny it here.
He never did create the earth,
Nor give the living mortals birth ;
And as to heaven he can’t assume;
As he is hurried from the throne.
And down to earth he does appear,
Where none do love, and fools do fear;
Because such king, there’s none do love;
His hellish arts there’s none approve;
And fools he makes to gain his power;
1 And then liis friends he doth devour.
So, here’s a king, that all do hate;
And will his friends say, he is great ?
Then such a greatness I despise.
My God, my King, doth act more wi$e: «
Because his followers do him love ;
And, from the martyrs, this I’ll prove.
All that have died for his sake,
Shew plain their love to God was gpreat t
And great his goodness will appear,
To all that are his followers here;
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
Confess him worthy of a God,
Who love his name, and fear his rod. ]
And so to him all power is due:
His might, his majesty, is so, ?
His love and goodness so do shine
To ail the fallen sons of men ;
And when his power is all made clear,
Then all the earth will love him here.
But as for Satan’s boasted king,
Hated by those that follow him ;
Then how canst thou now stand his friend,
And see his ruin now descend,
From highest heaven of perfect bliss*
lust like the serpent lick the dust,
With nothing but a poisonous sting ?
And canst thou call such snake a king ?
t
The following lines were in answer to a woman,
who spoke in language much like a devil. She said,
it was unworthy of a God to create beings that re­
quired redemption: she said there was no need of a
Saviour, and she did not believe in one.
Joanna. The Lord did not make or create man to
want redemption from what he first made him ; for
he pronounced him good; and, had he abided in
that state of innocence he was formed in, he would -
have wanted no redemption; but being fallen by the
weakness ofthe woman, that was betrayed bythe arts
of the devil, they both forfeited that state of per­
fection thev were created in. And thus, like a no­
bleman, who, robbed of all his money, runs himself
in debjt, and mortgages his lands; which if he can­
not redeem them himself he must lose; unless he has
a friend to pay the mortgage for him. This has been
the case with gentlemen of large fortunes, left by
theirparents, with great estates and lands free; yet,
they have runned through their fortunes, and mort­
gaged their lands, which they have not been able to
redeem without a friend to assist them. Now, we
cannot saythe fault was in their parents, who did not
leave them enough to keep them $sgentlemen, with­
out the assistance ofa friend; it was their own selves
that brought them to the want of a friend. Just so
was *becreation ofman. The Father of tbf whole
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
H
earth gave man every thing to make him happy; but
he forfeited that happiness by the arts ofSatan;who -
drd^iufn in from one sin to another, till he had
losW ^at the Lord gave him—which was the Like-
ness ofhis Maker,in perfect happiness and innocence.
But Satan drew* him from one sin to another, till he
had lost all the likenessof his God, and became poor,
wretched, and miserable. Then, in this state of
misery, do we n6t want a friend to redeem ns, and
briAg us back to that state of happiness we were
first create in ? As much as a gentleman that has
mortgaged alhhis father's lands, which he bad left
him free, wants a friend to pay the mortgage to set
h ip free as his father left him ? Now the Lord him-
«elf isthat Friend, who hath paid the ransom, and
-^premised to set usfree.
Satan. Satan answered, I am the woman’sfriend,
tfharsaM, there was no need of a Saviour, and thotr
art a poor, vain, conceited fool.
Joanna. If I am a conceited fool, shew me wherein;
bring forth some reasons to support such an empty
.speech.
Satan. I shall treat thee with that contempt thou
wast told to treat me with.
Joanna. Then leave me for-ever, as they said.
Let fee hear no more from thee. I do not want to
contend with thee. I answered theignoranoe of the
woman; for which thou callest me a conceited fool:
and now Pwill call thee an empty fool, to reprove
without sense or reason. Any fool might have
brought forth such wotds, without having sense to
assign their reasons. So now leave me forever,and all
that are committed to my care: for they are the
people whom the Lord hath commanded me to pluck
from thy binds, and put a seal upon them, that the
gates of hell may not prevail against them. So now
leave me and them ; and I do not want to answer
lime a word. But know, as many as have given their
v names to me, are given to the Lord. And wilt tho<t
rob the house of God, and break bis commands, as
V
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
thou, by arts, didst tempt man at first? Then be as­
sured the Lord will keep his word with thee, as he
did with man, and sweep thee off from the fitffe of
the earth.
Satan. O, thou bitch of hell! Call me no more
the woman’s friend ; I hate the sex.
Joanna. And I hate tliee, Satan, and thine.
Satan's Friend. Now I answer thee in behalf of
my master: and thouspeakest in behalf of thine. If
I cannot conquer by arguments, I have done;laid
let my master answer for himself. Thou sayest, will
Satan rob the house of God? I, answer, thou hast
robbed the devil of his due, if he gives up to thee;
£>r three parts outof four thou hast sealed, were tile
devil’s servants :»and wilt thou not confess tli^t thou
wast the first robber ?
Joanna. The servant is not compelled to abide
with his master, if he does not like him ; and theys
freely gave their names to serve a better Master, and
to have Satan’s power t^ken from them, that they
might not serve him any longer. So I did not rob
thee,—they freely gave their names to be sealed as*
servants of the most high God.
Satan's Friend. Thou sayest the devil was a liar
from the beginning; but I will prove, thou art a
greater liar than there i s h e l l : thou sayest, they,
gave their names freely, as being willing to change,
masters. Now, thou canst not brlve out that lie;
for thy ownliand-writing will prove thee a£ar, Thou>
hast sealed twelve times twelve without their consent,
or ever giving their names at all; and they do not
believe in thy writings neither, So thou art a thief,
and a liar, for thy own brothers serve Satan more
than they do the Lord, Now, how canst thou an­
swer for thyself, that thou, art not a thiefj to rob
Satan of his servants. For, remember, his servaq£&
ye are to whom ye yield yourselves to obey: and.
greatest part was Satan’s servants, whom thou takjuft
from him by robbery, if he gives them up; for. they:
never gave their names. So thou art a thief to steals
72
Digitized by L i O O Q l e
and then plead the promiseso f God, to rbb Satan of
his-willing servants, and say, he shall be cast, if he
do nbf give them up. Canst thou say, in.thy own
Conscience, it is just and right for Satan to sign
such robbery ? No, there thou must be struck silent*
and say, it is not just, and confess thou hast told a
lie, to say all gave their names.
JoannO. Is this all the wisdom thou canst plead,
to vindicate Satan, and condemn me? All souls are
mine/ saith the Lord: and the Lord hath a right to
do what he will with his own. I sealed no more
without giving theirnames, than the Lord gave me;
and of them, I hope and trust, not one will be lost*
Certainly, the God of the whole earth, that made
man, hath a right to demand man. There is not a
serving that Satan hath got, but he robbed God of
them at first. And now I shall answer for my Bro*
thefs. Thfey were brought upin the fear of the Lord,
♦and their parents prayed daily for them; but I am
sorry to say, Satan worked in their hearts, to wander
from tile paths of virtue set before them. But, the
prayers of the righteous avail much, and God is a
God hearing and answering prayer: He said, of the
seed of the righteous, I will punish their iniquities
with stripes; but my loving-kindness will I not ut­
terly take from them. Now, the Lord is as good,
as his word, to give me the promise he hath made;
and the potter hath power over the clay, the master
over the house, and the father over his children;
so the Lord hath power to do what he will with
his own. It was a free gift of God to give mb
them ; and ah that my Father hath given me, .shall
I not keep ? The Lord has a right to give me the
whole creation, had he so pleased. Satan cannot
claim 'one by right or title, but what he has got is>
by arts and robbery.. So I have not spoken lies,
nor robbed Satan: for our Saviour said, he was
come to seek and to save that which was lost; then
he hath a right to seal and to save what thou sayest
was lost. For lie came to pluck men as brand*
73
I Digitized by t ^ o o Q l e
from the burning; and can Satan's friend be so
ignorant to say a tree gift is robbery ? A gift is a
gift: and those whom God, who was our dkeator,
and promised to be our Redeemer, hath given m e.
to redeem from the Powers of Darkness, I have as
great a right to demand and claim, as those that
signed their names. The Lord knoweth who are
his. So Satan has no right there; and thou canst
not say I am a thief or a liar. All thou hast brought
forth is false, by claiming what is not thy own.
Satan's Friend. Thou art a liar, to say I caunot
answer It. Dost thou think, because these argu­
ments appear so clear in thy wisdom, they are in
mine? I tell thee no. I have other questions to put
to thee. Did not thy Father say, They were from
their fathei', the devil, and his works they tbd do9
Then how wilt thou answer that?.If God be the
common Parent of allm^n, how can they be from
their father the devil ?
Joanna. Our Saviour said that, in anger to the
Jews, whocalled Abraham their Father,and said they
were the seed of Abraham, when they were depar­
ted from the faith of Abraham, and drawn away
by the arts of the devil; who hath now discovered
to me the way he infused such wrong ideas into
' men's minds. So Satan had made them his chil­
dren; and he might well be called their father; for
the Lord wiH not call himself the father of them
that deny him. Our Saviour said they were of
their father, the devil, because they did his
works, by persecuting the Sow of G o d : But all
that I have sealed believe in the Three-One-God.
Our Saviour might as well have told them the
devil was their father, as Abraham; for they were
departed from his faith; then how could they be
his children? For neither Abraham nor #atan
created them;- so they were called according
to their faith, as a woman, when she is married,
is called by the name of her husband; because she.
hath given up her hand and heart to him, But
74
Digitized by Google
if he djetb, and she marrietli another, she loses the
name' of the first, and is called after the name of
the seehaui. So it is with man : If we are influ*
enced by the powers of darkness, and give up our
hearts to the devil, \ve lose the title and right o f
calling God our Father; and become subject to
Satan’s being called our father; because we give
up our hearts to him. Then he comes in but for
a fath er-m -lg # fo r Satan is not our father by cre­
ation. Then what right hast thou to say, they that
were scaled were of their father, the devil, and
his works they did do ? Which I deny: for the
works- of the devil are in open rebellion against
G od; which rebellion the s e a l e d have denied.
fijut.the children of the devil are led by his spirjt;
to them as a strong man armed to V
take possession of their hearts ; but our Saviour
said, therW cometh one stronger than he, who
bindeth the strong man armed;‘*nd taketh pos­
session of the whole himself.
^Satan's Friend. I will give thee credit for that
answer*; because thou hast likened it to marriage.
,The very thing I wanted. Now, if it is like mar­
riage, it binds to the very person they are married
to. Then if they obey the devil, they are married
to him ; and what shall break that bond? Here
thou canst not answer a w ord;—so I shall abide
by marriage.
Joanna. Then by marriage now abide. For
when the husband dies, his name dies with him—
to hit nife, if she marries again. And when the
marriage of God has struck Satan dead, his name
Is buried down to every one that is wedded to
Christ. But many women, after they are married,
forsake their husbands, and follow ethers, whom
they lave better; so the marriage is broken: and
so will the marriage, of Satan be broken, as many
do not always bind their hearts to the devil. So
to come to marriage will not always make Satan
75 '
Digitized by Google
the husband; though he sometimes influences
their hearts to follow after him, as a man influences
the heart of a woman to follow him. But the crea­
ture’s tove is apt to change; and what is worse than
love, turned to hatred ? And so will the love of a
Christian turn to hate the devil, after he hath been
influenced by his ways :--»-And so that bond ot
mafriage is broken, and is but a reed to trust to.
Satati* Friend. Now I tell thee, jjf I do hot
confound thee by arguments, I will give it up for
Satan to answer for himself; and then he wi\J make
thee fear him, if thou wilt not love him. Thott
sftyest nothing is Worse than love turned to hatred;
and marriage will not bind for ever; but I will
confound thee' there; Thou sayest Satan’s wisdom
is like the moon increasing; then now I tell then
I am not come to the first quarter y e t; but I shall
answer from thy Words of marriage. Then sayest,
marriage will not bind for ever; yef, thou sayest,
the marriage o f the Larhb hinds all nations together.
Then how cafrst thou make that good, that mar­
riage is like a broken reCcf,—and yet the marriage
of the Lamb binds all ? Here is a contradiction
in plain terms. Thou sayest the creature’s love is
fickle, and apt to change; and nothing is worse'
than love tUrnCd to hatred; now I tell thee in
plain terms, thou hast foiled thyself: and if thou
givest it up to me, it is ended, and the dispute
is over. I come to confound thee, and convince
thee, the Bible and thy writings are a confused
ilOiisefise together. Satan is a great.and mighty'
being, and it is impossible fat all the' power# wP
heaven and earth to overthrow him and take hii!
power from him. Satan is almighty in powers—
he had the greatest part in heaven to join him ;
and the greatest part on earth to follow him* When
the world was drowned there were bat eight person#
that regarded the Lord at a ll; and he Was forced
to work miracles to make any regard hitft j when'
76
Digitized by Google
Christ died tp pretend to men that he loved them,
he and all his followers were overthrown by the
mighty power of Satan. Now, foolish woman,
grow wjse. If God had been almighty, dost thou
not think he would have shewn his mighty power
before now ? Why dost thou laugh at all these wise
wen, who tell thee there never will be any change?
for I tell thee there never will the power of Satan
can never J>e conquered : heaven and earth may
passaway—but Satan’s kingdom cannot pass away.
For I tell thee the Bible is false ; aud if thou an-
swerest this thou art undone.
Joanna. Now I will see tl»e mighty power of
Satan; for I never saw any mighty power in him in
my life; but like a thief, that is always robbing,
and his fallen angels like aden of thieves, who waft
in the way for a manj to destroy him ; so does
Satan, and his followers, wait in the way to plunder
and steal. W hat master cam keep his house in order
when surrounded with a set of thieves, till they are
all destroyed ? Now, foolish friend of Satan, be­
cause the lo rd did not exert his power to chain Sa­
tan down, as he deserved, and let him reign to shew
how wretched and miserable be would make the
world, if he could; and let him work his wicked
arts, tp convince men and fallen angels of the justice
of his punishment, to be for ever excluded from all
society; dost thou judge this long forbearance of
the Lord proves the mighty power of the devil ?
Di.d Satan ever work one miracle to save his friends?
Could he keep the seas, from overwhelming Pha­
77
raoh, when he
Did he stop the
were cast into
jursued the children of Israel?
ions’ mouths when his followers
the den ? Did he stop the flames
of fire when bis followers came near them r Did
h? ever perform any mighty works, or shew forth
any mighty acts? Then now set forth his mighty
pow^r; but do not shew it as thou bast alrlady
done^-like a den of thieves and robbers, filling up
Digitized by Google
the measures of their iniquity, shedding men’s blood
—and by man shall their blood be shed This is
the mighty power thou hast set forth: and is this
the king thou boastest of, that hath no po.vrr in
heaven or earth, any longer than his appointed
tim er Yet thou boastest of his supreme power,
that is nothing but the sting of a serpent. Dost
thou not know he never formed the world, son,
moon, or stars ? Neither did any good thing ever
come from him. This is the king tnou boastest of!
that has not one virtue to plead : nor one spark
of love did he ever shew to God or man. His
whole conduct is what men of sense are ashamed
to own. If they have walked in his ways and
footsteps, they wish to conceal it from the world,
being ashamed of his vices. Now I have answer­
ed thee concerning the great and mighty king,
whom none love, but all hate. Now I will be­
gin with the King of kings, and the Lord of lords,
lie is worthy of a God, in might, majesty, and
goodness, who made the heavens for his throne,
and the earth for his footstool. He justly cast
Satan out of heaven, to have perfect harmony
where he was. God is a God of order; but Sa­
tan is a devil of confusion. God is a God of love;
but Satan is full of malice, envy, hatred, pride,
and vain glory. Now the unbounded goodness of
God would not confine him to outer darkness* till
he had given him a fair trial, and now a fair trial
he hath given him. 'But now to come to marriage.
The bonds are broken by death ; and that death
Satan soon brought in upon man. Here he tried
to introduce another name, and another marriage,
to draw the heart to sin against God, and break
o ff the ,first: But there are many that will not
enter the second marriage; and there are many,
will not enter into marriage with Satan at all. But
where there comes a second marriage, if an oppor­
tunity offers, comes a third also; so the second
78
Digitized by Google
is lost as well as the first. Now I shall explain
this. The first was in Creation: we were ere- “
ated to be one with God, and God with us. This
union Satan.broke off; then. he influences the
hearts of men by every unruly passion to be wed­
ded to sin; and sin is of the devil. So here conies
the second marriage; but the third changes, and
brings in another name. Now this I shall compare
to the two.first marriages, that are pronounced
dead. Man was pronounced dead, and Satan was
pronounced worse than dead, as having the greatest
curse pronounced upon him. Now I shall bring
it to the marriage of the Lamb. First, the woman
brought deathon m an; here is the first passed; se­
condly, she brings death on the serpent, who bn»
trayed her to bring death on her husband; so man
is dead, and Satan is dead, with the woman; for '
I pronounce both dead-in trespasses and sin; then
who liveth to be the third, but h e that was dead
and is alive, and liveth for evermore ? So here I
havp pronounced marriage is changeable till it
conies to the marriage of the Lam b;—whose love
for the woman bore the blame the man cast on
him, (the Lord) that Satan might bear the bla$ie
the woman cast on him. So death was passed
first on m an; and Christ bore that death for man;
next it was cast on the serpent; then he 'must
die also. And what marriage can take place, but
the marriage of the Lam b! seeing her Creator hath
passed sentence o f death on the two first ? Now,
that she may. not remain a widow she engaged in
the third, whichais the marriage of the L a m b ;
seeing the two others were pronounced dead be­
fore. But Christ the spiritual Bridegroom was
dead, and is alive, and liveth fo r evermore; and
here the third marriage must stand, and unite the f
whole world with him. For Christ liveth and \
reigneth in the hearts of thosewho see that death
. was passed on man and the d e v i l *and none bufc
79
Digitized by
Christ can bring the dead to life; who raised La­
zarus from the grave, and raised him self in
his present Body as before. So he is not dead ;
he only passed that death for man: for bis body
did not see corruption—then how can Christ be
counted dead, as a man is dead ? No, here he
conquered death; and will triumph over hell;
and change our vile bodies, and make them like
his glorious body: that in this body offlesh we
may arise to newness ojlife in his l ik e n ess ; and
have a communion with our G od, and a fellow­
ship with J esus Christ, that we may commune
with God in our hearts; and he hath promised to
commune with us, who is worthy to be loved,
worthy to be feared, and worthy to be had in
everlasting remembrance. Now see his wondrous'
works in creation, in preservation, his mercy and
goodness over all his works; and wilt thou not
confess
He is worthy of honour, praise, and pm ert
To be ascribed to the Lambfo r e/oer ?
Thus shall my soul praise him as long as I live, /
who hath passed from death to life, that we may
live also. And the love men have, had for the
ways of the devil, will be turned to hatred against
him.
Satan's Friend. Here, thy last words have raised
my anger and indignation against thee. Dost
thou say men will hate the ways of the devil ?
Thou art a fool. Every pleasure in the world
comes from the devil. •
Joanna. W hat pleasures ? I never saw one in
my life that came from him. Strife, envy, malice,
hatred, revenge, murder, a hell one with another;
where they are willing servants to Satan, they are
a burden to themselves, and to each other.
Satan's Friend. Thou ignorant fool! Hath not
thy life been made wretched and miserable on ac­
*0
Digitized by Google
count of religion ? Hast thou not been despised*
laughed at, brought thyself to poverty, to live upon
charity ? See to what state tnou art fallen! In­
stead of living in credit, like thy sisters, thou hast
not one penny but what is given thee.—When these
words were spoken, a double knock was heard at
the door, upon which Satan's Friend cried out,
damn that knock—It is Foley. I had no sooner
penned the words, than another gentleman came
up stairs—so his words were not true. I should
not have written this simple thing, but that my
readers may understand the following answers.
Joanna. Now, Satan, dost tliou not see how
soon thou art caught in thy lies ? And now I tell
thee, as thou hast begun to fall, so thou wilt as­
suredly fall. As to my distresses, I had sooner
be a door-keeper in the house of the Lord, than to
dwell in the tents of the wicked. I am happy to
be a servant of God, though a beggar; but the
tents of the wicked I hate.—Thou wast stopped
with a lie in thy mouth.
Satan’s Friend. Thou sayest, I was stopped with
a lie in my m outh: and how many hast thou told ?
Thou hast received a letter from Mossop and
Pomeroy this d ay ; and they have both given thee
up; add thou saidst Mossop should yield. Now
wilt thou not own that a lie ? Answer for thyself.
Joanna. I will not give up either of them as
yet. He that made the blind to see, can make
them to see. I have more to say to Mossop yet.
Hasty judgment is seldom right. The promises
of God are Yea and Amen.
Satan's Friend. Thou sayest, the promises of
God are Yea and Amen. So they are, said and
ended:—for I tell thee, I never should have come
out of heaven with the devil, if the Lord had
kept his word with m e:—But his word was said
and ended at once. Thou knowest not the de­
ceitfulness of the Lord.
F
81
Digitized by Google
Joanna. I will not go to bed, nor close my eyes,
before I have answered this blasphemy. It is like
the lie of saying Mr. Foley was at the door* G od
% just: he cannot act unjustly. God is Truth
himself: and he cannot, nor will he go from his
w ord; without men or angels make him appear to
do so, by their departing from his ways. But now
the Lord has given his word to redeem his people
from the power of Satan, and from sin: But if we
say we love Satan better than we love the Lord,
we come under his wrath and ju st displeasure! and
we must expect that the Lord will renounce us.
Can a just judge countenance injustice ? Can the
King of Glory be seated on his throne with those
that neither love, fear, uor obey him ? And, this,
I perceive, must have been the case o f those who
were cast out of heaven, by all their conduct JHirQ
upon earth. So, what thou sayest, O fallen angel,
sheweth thy arts and lies, and the justice of God,
more and more, to cast thee out of heaven.
Satan's Friend. Did the Lord command me tQ
answer wherein he forfeited his word ? I shall an­
swer ; and then judge if God be as just as thog
makest him.
Joanna. Thou hast assigned no reason at all:
so I believe God is just to cast such an .one out otf
heaven; and will be just to chain him down with
the devils he came out with.
Immediately after this, a voice came to me,
saying, Write Apollyon: and then was silent;
and to his silence I was thus answered——
• 82
“ O, Apollyon, what a fool is here.
To say, Apollyon: fallen angels are
Who fell from glory, and the highest blissu
To join with Satan, and to lick the dust.
Joanna’s name shall never stoop so low.
To write, Apollyon, fo r thee to give the blow (
To say thy name does surely stand the last;
ftJd;-—
there’s the way, I know, thou meaast to burst.
Digitized by Google
Because ’tis the fast name that here does stand.
Must £ain the kingdom, now, Isay, for man.
. So, if aln a. y she hath won the field,
Confess thou’rt conquer'd, and begin to yield;
And for ihy c f I bid thee to appear,
To tell wherein thy God e'er wrong'd thee here;
Or else thy silence must give thee the lie;
Thou canst hot answer to what ihou dost say.*
Satan's Friend. Thou sayest thou demandest an
answer. I answer; it is not men learn from the:
devil; but the devil learns of men. Did Pomeroy
give a satisfactory answer, when he said thou wast
led by the devil ? Did he not burn thy letters to
screen his judgment, that no one might blame him
for passing such judgment, when he had received
such letters? Now, what answer canst thou make
to that ? For we learn our wisdom from men, that
we may share their fate.
Joanna. Then now thou art come to confess
thy king is neither mighty in wisdom, nor in power:
and thou art pleading to learn of men, to share
their fate of reden)ption, and to gain an interest
in Christ ? But, know', thou must repent, if thou
wislvest to share the fate of good m en; but if thou
actest rebelliously, like the wicked, that break
the laws of God and man, then thou must share
the same fate with them.
83
Here ends the whole Dispute with the Powers o f
Darkness.
FRIDAY, A u g u s t 20, 1802.
Various Dreams, in part—One, in particular,
relative to her father, whom she thought she saw
very sick. He said, he was as sick as death, and
threw off his coat and waistcoat, and also put off
his shirt from his shoulders, so that his back was
naked. Joanna pushed up the sash, and desired
tpnj to go put upon the leads, where she thought
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
he went immediately, and was partly out of the
window, when Mr. Woolland entered the room.
Aug. 19. Another Dream, which Joanna had
the night before, was concerning a large black
horse, which she saw in the air with a man upon
him, moving slowlv at first, but swiftly afterwards.
Aug. 18. Another Dream, she had the night be­
fore that, when she saw a large number of horses,
of different sorts; some in coaches, and some in
carts, and some in waggons, with their heads and
necks dressed with plumes of feathers of lead co­
lour. . Then appeared a hearse, with eight or ten
horses, very elegantly dressed with black plumes,
and the hearse the same—but they were so en­
tangled one with the other, that they could scarce
go along.
Aug. 17. The night before, she had another
Dream ; when she saw a large circle in the hea­
vens ; in which circle she thought she saw herself;
and many of her friends, enclosed.
Aug. 16. Some things of consequence were ex­
plained to Joanna, from some bullocks passing her
window at two in the morning, and making va­
rious noises. Some were bellowing, some were
suuffling, and some answering them at a distance.
The cocks in the neighbourhood were crowing to
each other. While she was listening'to these things,
being perfectly awake, a whirlwind came into the
room, which immediately deprived her of her
senses, when she was carried in the spirit to Get-
tisham, into an orchard of her father's, where there
were a parcel of bullocks, one of which came to­
wards her, threatening with his horns, and she
quickly ran away. The whole of the Vision is too
long to be now given.
Aug. 15, 1802. Joanna, for half an hour in the
evening, was looking out of her window at a fire-
balloon, which moved in various directions.
Note.—"Ihe reader will tee by the dates to each dream that th e y .
are purposely placed for the last tp be first.
84
Digitized by Google
Now HI answer every dream,
And every mystery HI explain :
And from the last, I shall begin,
And backward go as thou hast done.
For sick thy father did appear;
And I am sick men's words to hear:
Unto the window he did go,
Perfect as thou persuad'st him lo;
Then to the window I shall come.
My sickness shall be known to man.
Thy Dream,9 thou hast not wrote it clear;
Mark well, that Woolland did come there.
And ask, why thou hadst order'd so,
Out of the window he should go.
His sickness then thou didst declare ;
And now my sickness tell them here.
That I am full as sick of man,
As then thy father he was seen.
Thou know’st thy father's back was bare,
I shew'd the dream, the whole to clear:
And bare my back was made lor man.
Where are my friends by me to stand,
To prove my Gospel now is true,
And hastening fast before their view,
And Jews and Gentiles to awake ;
And make the Anans* hearts to shake,
That do as firmly me deny,
As the Jcuvs did that very day ?
My Gospel no one does believe:
' I say, their words do men deceive ;
And so they'd soon deceive vou all,
And bring on man a fatal fafl;
And throw rmy Gospel all aside;
The truth by man is now denied.
For Jonah's Prophelf does appear,
And yet they all deny it here:
As thousands disbelieve the man,
That e'er my Spirit to him came ;
While others do in him believe,
■And full as much themselves deceive ;
Because they make him more than man,
To bind him in the prison strong.
And so his friends do now appear
His greatest foes ; the truth I'll dear.
No greater foes on earth has lie,
Than those of his own house to be ;
That is, to join with him m faith,
To build the houses J as he saith ; "
Of her father, t M
r. Brothers. % Of Jerusalem.
85 .
Digitized by Google
But, O ye simple sons of men!
I tell you all your thoughts are vain;
As wrongly you believe ti e man,
As those that do deny his hand.
So Nineveh is perfect here ;
They first believ’d in fervent prayer,
And then did not believe at all; -
And perfect so’s the faith of all.
For some believe him perfect true,
That like his words he’ll surely do;
While some do not believe at all;
And so like Nineveh are all;
And so, I say, you’ll be deceiv’d,
As Nineveh what they believ’d :
For all will find a Jonah there, ,
And so my coming now is here;
As full in Spirit now in thee,
As in the body they saw me,
When I by them was crucified ;
And now by roost men I am denied.
Theft like thy father I may lx;,
Sick of my friends, the whole to see ;
L ite ----------- -’s friendship to appear
In all my friends, I tell thee here;
Then I may well be sick of all,
As thou art sick to see the fall,
That doth in ------------so strong appear,
And stumbles at the noon-day here.
For all may see the noon-day sun.
When to this house thou first didst come,
See how the Serpent did appear;
See how thou fled’st, the truth is clear :
See how he hasty after came ;
See all his words that are made known.
So all together you compare,
And then my Gospel you’d see clear \
As perfect as the noon-day sun,
And how I’ve circled in my own,
That are the stars upon thy head.
Mark well their crowns, how all is laid \
For surely they must rise to shine,
When I the other part do join.
Workers with me they do appear,
For to bring in my Kingdom here.
Then they are circled in my throne.
As in thy Vision they were shewn.
So it is I have circled all,
That stedfast stand ty>prove the call;
86
Digitized by Google
For now the Black Horse does appear;
Thou judg’st the horse was Satan there;
But I do tell thee ’tis not so :
And to jour Judges you must go,
When sentence they of death do pass,
Mark, the black cap displays the face:
What then the prisoners have to hear !
And so the cap does make them fear;
Because of death it is a sign.
And here’s a warning to mankind :
The Black Horse that was in the air,
Foretells you all that death is near:
If you stand out through unbelief,
You’ll find my angels, like a thie£
Come hasty on you unawares.
So-the black may make you fear,
As black your funerals do appear;
So my destroying angel’s near,
I f y o u my Gospelm
o deny,
And say my coming you defy,
To be according to my word;
Then meet your Judge, and meet your Lord
For I shall bring my Kingdom here.
And they that live m faith and fear
Shall see the coming of the Lord;
And by them I will be ador’d.
Because my love they then shall see:
They’ve labour’d not in vain for m e ;
And I, their labour will reward.
You’ll find your God doe$ you regard;
And that your love is not in vain.
But, simple men, do you complain,
That I to man do speak too free ?
Then how my Bible do you see,
That my delight shall be with men,
If I in freedom don’t begin ?
Or how could ye receive your Lord,
In words that ye have never heard?
No, no, I tell you, simple men,
In your own language I must come;
For if my speech I now divide,
Like Noah’s seed’t must be applied;
And find no way to build at all,
If different speeches here did fall.
For so their fabric all fell down.
That they’d built up when in one sound t
So in one sound shall all appear:
I am come my Gospel now to clear,
87
Digitized by Google
And all my Bible to make good:
Mark every promise how it stood ;
And then the whole von may see plain,
That my delight shalf be with mc»v *
As it already has begun :
For my delight, they all shall see,
Is join’d with them, that join with thee.
Because they join with Me the same,
And they sliall know my every name.
But from thy dream I’ll answer here —
The horses that did so appoaF,
Shew how your nation fast will fall:
The different horses tell you all,
What harness iura you mint put *ott;
Or else the hearse for ail will come;
And you’il be hustl’d in the crowd,
When I send death to call aloud.
For when thy book is gone abroad,
The hearts of men lAUfnst be know’d ;
And like the bullocks will begin,
To echo back their voic e to men,
Arid one the oilier they will cull:
The crowing cocks forewarn you aH,"
The midnight hour is nigh at hand-;
The naked truth will men demand,
To knozv vJiut U'oman note is here:
That hell can’t conquer, men must fear*
And fast the noises will abound,
So perfect as thou hcard’st the sound.
For some I know will snuff at thee,
And judge invention all to be:
Because their God they do not know,
Which way 1 mean to cast the blow;
To have it by the woman’s hand,
That Satan must the trial stand*
So some will try To goad thee here*;
For Satan’s friendswill fast appear*
Just like the vision thou didst sefe,
I know the words do puzzle thee.
What monsters then! is now thy cry ;
Cun men wish Satan not to die ? *
And my bless'd kingdom not appear?
1 he fire-balloon foretels you here,
How they will sport with fire below,
Till with their masters they will go ;
And all will perish in a mist,—
Thou seek’st a friend, and all was lost.
And so will all be lost to them ;
They Useek their friends, and all is gone ;
8»
Digitized by Google
That is, the end they’ll not see-cleat.
Which way my kingdom will appear#
For they will lose the every sight,
That now my warnings they do slight.
So now thy dreams I’ve ended here.—
Three shepherds do with thee appear;
And two in power support thy hand;
Then I am already join’d with men.
And as their face thou lov’st to see,
I tell thee ’tis the same by ms.
And see what change there now is cotnc*
Thou never wast so free with man,
Out of thy rank that did appear;
Thou never wast SO
'free before ;
Nor they did ever stoop so low,
Such perfect freedom for to shew.
With one inferior so to be,
As they in all things are with thee.
But how ray work could thus be doneu
If nought but pride appear’d'in man?
And thou embarrass’d soon would’st be.
And dread their every sight to see.
Then how my work could it be done,
If different ranks did make you shun -
In perfect harmony to meet ? ‘
Sec thou the likeness, for ’tis great;
Because with me ’tis just the same ;
I am superior to mankind•
But if in freedom I don’t come,
I know the embarrass’d hearts of men
No pleasure they would have with mf,
Than thou would’st have thy friends tosec^
Jf they should come in haughty pride.
How soon did one throw all aside!
When all thy conduct it was blam’d.
Thou instant wish’d to shun the same;
And then the place to bid adieu;
Thy former friends call’d to thy view.
And to them wish’d for to return,
When thou in secret grief didst mourn#
And instant wish’d to leave the whole.
The pride of one would break from all.
And quickly chill thy perfect love,
* For like the lady* soon’st thou’It proven
And sick of London (hou would’st be.
Had I not held the heart of thee.
In Bruce a shadow was of me,~ .
* A ladj travelling lately with Joanna# in a coari*
89
Digitized by Google
To say his house was welcome! there,
And unto it thou must repair;
And Bruce is welcome unto mine,
When he this earthly house resigns,
Which man does cail the house of clay ;
He's welcome then to come with me.
But now be wise, ye sons of men:
Should I begin as one hath done ;
To scrutinize in every thought,
Then your destruction must be wrought.
No, ‘no, I must not so appear;
The trial none that way can bear,
To tell you all your every fault;
You might confess, in heart and thoitgbt,
The words I'd spoken they are true.
And call the past before your view;
And then you’d all sink in despair,
And say the trial none can bear ;
If in that manner I should come,
Require perfection now in man ;
When 1 do know in man there’s none.
Their manners all to mb are known.”
The Answer q f the Spirit, August 22, 1802.
90
a
MONDAY, A u g u s t 23, 1802.
'* Now I’ll begin where thou didst end;
Like Stanhope Bruce appear;
I will not now condemn my friends,
Nor blame their manner here.
The ways of m e were hid from ye $
Then what can I expect?
No more than men exoect from thee.
That don’t thy words reject.
No learning here does now appear.
And none they want to see;
But only judge their Lord is here,
And wish to know from mb.
But, simple men, should I now com#
In words to her unknown;
In different language to appear,
To make my greatness shewn;
Then Hebrew here must soon appear.
That you don’t understand ;
If like myself I now appear,
’Twould foil the learned's! m«fc
Digitized by Google
My Bible here does so appear.
In my own language spoke;
And that I see no man can clear;
For all’s beyond your thought.
Then I must come and speak more plain#
To make the mysteries clear :
If Latin is produc’d by man,
You know the English here
Must first be shewn to have it known*
And so my Bible stands.
Had Satan all the mysteries known*
He’d soon destroy ail lands.
So Adams here ye now appear;
The woman you withstood;
And she the serpent conquer’d here f
Then I’ll pronounce all good,
That now is done; behold my Son
N ow’s in th,e w o m a n ’s f o r m :
And firmly she does stand with ye,
And all her helpers gone.
No woman here did now appear,
In faith for to stand out,
When Satan’s arts did all ensnare.
To fill them all with doubt.
Then now see plain, ye learned men#
The woman's in my hand:
I kept her, perfect like her dream,
I f you can understand
The threatenings there, that did appears
Buf now his mouth is tied :
My angels they did hold him there.
And she’s the faithfal Bride.
The women, see, all fled from m i .
While she in faith stood out t
Mark how she to the city came,
The other came in doubt.
Then now see plain, ye sons of men,
A Solomon is here,
That the true Bride may be applied ;
Now see the mystery clear.
The one gave up her every hope.
And did the whole divide;
The other stood, whose faith Was gftod,
And now behold the Bride. "
For parted she could never be.
Her faith was firm and sure;
Her Husband’s death could never b e*
He lives for evermore.
91
Digitized by Google
Then you may come, like Solomon,
And see which bride is true :
You know the husband's dead ofono'j
And bring all to your view :
The other here does now appear.
To say hcr's is not dead ;
Because he lives for evermore;
And there her faith was laid.
Mow i'll explain what this does meant-
Like parting of the child,
The trial I did put to thee,
And there you ail were foil'd;
to r one stood out then full of doubt.
And it would have parted so,
It should not be to her or thee;
Divided all must go.
For I should come lute thee to claim—
u My God I well do know ;
#f That r e is mine as much as thine,—*
And there she felt the blow.
For then came on the trial strong.
And she did surely fall;
And like her husband, dead and gone^
She soon grew dead to all.
Bo I have done like Solomon,
To shew the perfect Bride;
She'd sooner say her Lord was gone.
Than e'er her faith divide.
That was to say, he'd fled from she,.
And she’d no hope at all:
For if he did not live in thee,
Then she might have the whole.
For in her hand the whole did stan<L
When I did bring thee liere :
Had I been dead, and thou milled.
Then she the whole must wear ;
And boldly say that thou didst lie.
To say thy faith was right;
To run such hazard as thou didst;
For death would be the sight
Before you all; for thou must fall,
And so a corpse appear.
Then now see plain, from every calf.
That the true Bride is here,
Whose Husband see alive tp be,
And did preserve ihe Bride :
The other’s husband's dead you seej *
And did her faith divide.
92
Digitized by Google
£ut HI end here and say no more ;
For every step is plain :
And from tbc text I’ll answer here,
And will the whole maintain.”
93
A u g u s t 24, 1802.
JO A N N A saw an uncom m on lightning in th6
East, like a fire-work, placed behind the clouds, and
sometimes bursting o ut in six or seven places a t
once, like fire. Then the fire seemed to pass along
behind the clouds. Once it broke out perfectly
like the top o f a house; but a young woman present;
said, it was like a com plete house. A nother tim e
it broke out like a fiery serpent, and .seemed to run
up along the clouds as a body o f fire. Soon after
it broke out again in five or six branches o f fire;
o f a yard or two in length, running up the clouds.
T h en it would break out in various forms like a
body o f fire. A gain it would break out like w hite
flame on fire, in five or six places a t a time, as
if men were displaying fire-works, and shew ing
the different parts quick after each other. So it
continued like a whole scene o f fire-work, but.
m uch more wonderful than w hat could be displayed
by men upon earth. I t continued from nine-
o’clock till eleven ; though it began to lighten
before th a t time. W hen it began to disappear a t
eleven o’clock, there appeared a body o f sfers
joined so close together, th a t Jo an n a could n o t
num ber th e m ; they appeared about the bigness o f
a m an’s h e a d ; and under them came up faint
flashes o f light, like fire th at had been very great,
b u t was going to decay ; and in this state she left
the window. N ow I shall observe, this happened
a t the very same place, where she saw a fire-balloon
a few nights before g o to and fro, up and down,
like a kite in the air, m oving through the same
space, as the lightning appeared occupy in the
heavens.
Digitized by Google
The Answer o f the Spirit to the L ights in the
Heavens.
**Now, Joanna, thee FU answer:
As the sight did soappear;
Men shall know I am thy Master.—
Like the fire was kindled there,
Flash after flash will surely come,
And wonders men will see; *
You little know what’s hastening on,
Behind the clouds there be,
That will break out, if men dp doubt,
And sport with firebelow; .
That is, in words, tojest with thee,
My fire to them I’ll shew.
Now mark the place, ye fallen race,
Men’s fire did first appear;
And so my words men do disgrace,
And sport with fire here .•
But after comes my every hand,
As did to thee appear ;
And so it shall break in your land,
If men do mock thee here.
For I’ll speak plain, ye sons of men,
No God you judge to be ?
Ifyou do think her fife remains,
To mock with hell and me.
If I’ve not spoke, with heaven she mocks,
And boldly challenge there,
That it was I kept back the stroke, ,
When Satan did appear. .
For in my hand, she saith, she stands,
And in my name obey’d :
Her strength in me is said to be,
Or Satan would betray’d,
” When he did come, with threatenings strong.
And strong they did appear ;
. And will they say it never came, .
’Twas but invention here ?
Then now see plain, ye sons of men,
She’s come to sport with hell,
And say with it she did contend }
What, all invent herself?
Will you believe she does deceive I
. That’s all invention here ?
I ask you what you do believe ?
Will both her mockery bear ?
' Ah, simple men, your thoughts are vain
* You were pronounced dead;
94
Digitized by Google
And perfect so your senses are j ,
I tell you they are fled.
If you can't see the mystery,
What woman doth appear;
Since earth's foundation first was plac'd,
Such things no man did hear:
A woman's hand, so bold to stand,
And heaven and hell defy;
And boldly to contend with men,
And give them all the lie.
If from her head all this she’th spread.
And I not in her form ;
You must believe, from what is said# .
A w o n d e r here is born:
To judge, no God to send a rod ;
Or yet his power defy:
If from Invention all is shew’d.
Her tongue she gives the lie,
To tell you plain, ye sons of men.
She has stood in faith and fear $
And, my protection seek'd to gain.
She tells you all, in prayer.
I f ’t be not so, you all must know,
Her God she must defy;
Because his power she cannot fear,
To publish such a lie.
And as to hell, you must kn?w well.
Did she invent all there; i>
>
His rage and malice she’d made swell,
Ana her in pieces tear ;
He'd surely done, if she had come,
Such arts for to invent; ■
Her mocking would been catching there*
And hell in sunder rent
So man is dead, as I have said ;
Because his faith is gone:
I ask you, where’s your living faith>
What rock you build upon ?
If you do fear, an impostor’s hen?,
That can impose on all;
On God and men and hell blaspheme,
"(Tor so goes on her call;)
Then surely I, who dwell on high,
Must know that man is dead:
If now he gives his God the lie,
And sayiirom her ’1proceed*.
Then now begin, ye sons of men,
To answermydemand:
95
Digitized by Google
96
Why heaven and hell should silent dwell,
And she invent both hands ?
Such fools below, on earth, I know
Willjudge invention here;
But, such a woman let them shew,
.Or let the fools take care.
Because from man 1 now demand
An answer just and wise,
Why I support a woman's hand,
It she acts in disguise ?
That all has spread from her own head,
As fools do judge it here;
You must believe your God is dead,
And hell cannot appear.
So do not boast, where faith is lost;
For there the man is dead;
And so on Adam it was cast,
Because his faith was fled.
So he was dead, as then I said;
For he'd no faith at all,
To live in me, by faith to be,
And soon grew dead to all;
That is, the knowledge of his God t
And so went on the fall,
Till men began, all dead in sin ;
But now the promise see:
That your Redemption it must come—
The good tiait on the tree
Must surely come, be't known, to man ;
' And now it doth appear:
I'll prove it by the woman’s hand,
And every truth make clear.”
The Answer of the Spir it to the Third
Anonymous Letter,
Which J o a n n a did not mean to notice, only in a
few words, which are before given in page 66.
She was thus answered by the S p i r i t :
“ I left thee and thy friends to try your ow n
wisdom, concerning the letter sent to tnee by an
unknow n hand. B ut Oh, simple and u n w ise!
D ost thou think such hellish arts shall go unan­
swered ? I tell thee, no. For Satan h ath n o t re­
proved thee with m ore arts, than the manh a th in
Digitize
his letter. Never did a man more artfully speak
against his God, nor more strongly speak for the
devil, than that man hath. The letter was indited
by the spirit of the devil. Now I command thee
to put in print what he has .said of thy third book,
and my answer to him.” *
Here follows the Answer of the Spirit ; and
next I shall answer for myself.
“ Now FI! begin to answer man,
Who wrote to thee in an unknown hand ;
Because his name doth not appear,
But now my answer let him hear.
If he the serpent does not blame,
Nor Satan’s arts he don’t condemn.
But seek the traitor for to screen ;
Then answer me, ye sons of men.
Why you such vices do pursue,
As murder and adultery too,
And strife, and envy, and debate,
And all the ways of God you hate ?
Then sure your Maker you do blame,
To say from mb such monsters came,
As do. appear in every land.
Survey the vices how they stand
Jn every act of cruelty:
And will you say they came from m e ?
Then sure your Maker you must blame,
And put the Lord oflife to shame;
. Because the devil you will screen.
When I pronounc’d all came from him.
But will you say you do not mean
Your Maker’s ways for to condemn?
For you approve them just and right:
Your God you never meant to slight;
And all his ways you call themju st;
Yet still the serpent you’ll not cast;
But sooner bring the blame on man,
To have the day of vengeance come
With double fury on your head.
Ye sons of hell! ’tis there you plead,
To bring the vengeance all on man ;
By Satan’s arts you’ve latd your plan.
For if the devil you will clear,
My fury must on man appear;
Because my will it is not done,
A whit like heaven, 1say, by man:
G
97
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
For there my will is true obey’d,
And perfect love in all is laid,
And perfect happiness complete,
And all in harmony do meet,
With unity in every sound ;
And saints and angels do abound
In perfect love, to praise my name;
Now answer me, ye sons of men,
Why it is not the same below ?
Such different spirits you do shew’
,
That my will is not done on earth,
As ’tis in heaven, mark what I say ;
Yet for it, l did bid you pray—
My Kingdom must come in this way.
But yet I see it is not done :
And will you say the fault’s in man ?
Then surely man I must destroy;
For now my saints I will enjoy
In perfect harjnony with me.
My Kingdom i’ll bring in this way;
And have my will be done on earth
As ’tis in heaven, the Scripture saith ;
And there, my will is done by all,
And so to earth it now shall fall.
So if the fault is now in man,
Because it is not perfect done;
Then surely man I’ll now destroys
Ivly perfect saints I'll now enjoy,
W ho have got charity for man,
And wish the Serj)cnt to condemn.
So my deluded Followers here
With mf in triumph shall appear ;
Because they cast the blame on hell,
And Charity in them does dwell,
To judge their Maker made man first
In innocence, when from the dust;
And then he did pronounce them good,
And in that manner man had stood,
If Satan had not drawn away,
And templed man to disobey;
And always work’d upon men’s hearts.,
That they from God might all depart.
And now the truth, to prove it clear,
They wish’d t<*cast the Serpent there,
That they as gods may surely be ;
And the good fruit they wish’d to see,
And have the evil all desiroved ;
As Satan has too long enjoyed,
98
Digitized _GoogIe
To rob mankind of every bliss;
When hell is conquered, man will miss
The hellish arts he tempts men to:
Revenge and murder bid adieu,
And all that do destroy their peace:
The wars with Satan then will cease,
Which saints and sinners both do feel. .
Mark, when he bruis’d the Saviour’s heel,
That he in Judas did appear:
And will mankind support him there ?
Then look to Judas, as a man,
He hang’d himself for what be’d done.
And will you say that man’s the worst,
And say, the serpent shan’t be cast ?
Then now like Judas you appear,
And hang yourselves, your guilt to clear.
For if that man was not betray’d,
The Saviour’s Blood is on your head ;
And there the vengeance it must fall;
Satan or man must pay for all.
The day of vengeance now is nigh, t
That I nacL in my heart that day ; .
And now I ask on whom’t shall4all?
The unknown hand foretels you all,
That he for Satan does appear ;
And in the woman I am here*-
In mercy to redeem the man
From all the powers of Satan’s hand. ' .
And to the root the axe lay there ;
But man is come the root to clear,
And all the branches to cut down,
And let the root bide in the ground, ,
That every branch may spring again ;
Because for hell he doth maintain, '
That Satan don’t prevent my will
From being done—Vain man ! stand still,
And tell me why it is not done,.
That I am so denied by man ?
As many hundreds I have tried,
And yet by all I’m now denied.
None, but.my seven Saints I see,
That do the perfect will of me.
And mad, you fools do now begin,
-I say, to blame my chosen men;
But when my chosen do appear,
You’ll find yourselves mistaken there.
For you have built upon the sand, '
To bring down vengeance,on your land:
Q2
99
Digitized by Google
And all your fabrics must come down;
For earth and hell must hear the sound.
That 1 shall now avenge my blood;
For perfect so my Bible stood.
And the last error will appear
Worse than the first, 1tell you here,
If you do bring that day on man i
Then heavier now you'll feel my hand ;
, Though swept and garnish'd you have Jpeen,
You say, by me all cleans'd from sin.
But now the tempter doth appear.
With spirits worse than ’(was before,
And entered strong into the man, * . -
Which made him lay such wretched plan,
To throw my Bible all aside; ,
By Satan's arts are all applied t
In every word that he hath spoke;
And now I shall turn back the stroke:
The child of hell, dost thou appear
Full of all mischief, I see clear; * *
And true Religion thou’st pervert;
** Satan thou screen'st, and man thou'st hurt;
r And thy blindeyes can never see
The mysteries in my Bible be.
So, hypocrite, no more appear
With all thy boasted goodness here;
• For thou art like the whited wall,
' That's clay within, and so thou’lt fall:
. For nought but night in thee appears,
And like the owl, thou'st spoken here,
That very seldom flies by day ; .
And so thy name’s conceal'd that way.
And well thou may’st keep back thy name.
To plead for hell, O man, for shame!
» For men like devils must appear,
If Satan's arts so tempt them here;
v And J esus' blood must be in vain,
If men fcr hell will still maintain,
That all the fault was then in man,
Which made them lay such wretched plan :
Nor could my dying words be true—
" Father ! they blow not what they do”—
If Satan did not blind their eyes,
" My Gospel must be full oflies.”
Here I have ended the Answer o f the Spirit;
-and now I shall begin to answer for myself to the
Anonymous Letter.
. 100
Digitized by Google
I have found the truth of the words said to me;
that as many various ways as the powers of dark­
ness have spoken to me by the hearing of my ear;
so many ways will they work on the minds and
hearts of men. And this is made manifest from the
unknown letters sent to me. But the last astonished
me more than all, which I did not intend, till I was
commanded to answer; as the writer seemed void
of sense, reason, and religion. Ho has quoted
many texts of scripture, without applying them
in any sense or order, or understanding what they
meant. It would take a book, fully to explain all
the texts which he hasjumbled together, without
knowingiuw to apply one o f them. So I shall leave
this incoherentmonsense of applying theScriptures,
and come to what he has said of my third book:
for I shall make what use I please of Anonymous
Letters. You say, you quote my third book,
page 105,— “ Therefore it is impossiblefo r the will
o f God to be done on earth, as long as Satan's
“ power reigneth; fo r his arts are as many as his
" power is great." Now let the reader mark his
words, which I quote from his anonymous letter.
“ This doctrine which you are teaching is one of-
“ those hellish doctrines mentioned in the Reve-
“ lations under the head of Abominations o f the
“ Earth. Now as there are only two-wills* viz.
“ the will of God and the will of the devil; and as
**you declare that man cannot do the will of God,
“ because the power of the devil is so great; it fof*x
“ lows, if you speak truth, that man must do the'
*
*will of the devil! O full of fcltfsqbtiiity, and att-
“ mischief; thou child of the deVii!' thou enemy
“ of all righteousness! wilt thou mot cease to per-
“ vert the right ways ofthe Lord ?” Now I answer:
were not the apostles prevented from doing the wiH"'
o f the Lord, and their lives taken away ? Were not
the martyrs put to death, and they prevented
from doing the will of the Lord ? Were not the
prophets hid by fifties in. a cave, that they could
101
Digitized by Google
not come oat to do'the will of the Lord ? I might
bring forth amultitude of instances from the Bible,
as well as from antient histories, that men have
been prevented from doing the will of the L ord;
which I ascribe to the Powers of Darkness, work*
jog in the hearts of men to be at enmity against
God and his followers. B ut you setforth, that men
are deoils themselves. And whom do you judge
makes them so ? “ Let no man say, when he is
tempted, that he is tempted of G od; for God
tempteth no man neither can he tempt men to
evil. And now let me ask, who jt was that destroy­
ed these holy men r Was it by the will of God, or
by the will of Satan ? If you say it was by the will
of God, then you make him the author of all evil;
and I may answer you back in your own words,
a O full of all subtility, and all mischief,, thou
“ child of the devil! thou enemy of all righteous-
. “ ness, wilt thou not cease to pervert the right
ways of the Lord ?” But if you say it was the
devil that worked in the hearts ofmen to destroy
the followers of the Lord, and to prevent his will
being done; then I say, you come to the mean­
ing of my words, and which I can prove from
scripture; viz. That the powers of darkness have
always worked in the hearts of men, to persecute
the people of God, from the time of righteous Abel,
to the time of Zacharias, son of Barachias, whom
they slew between the temple-and the altar. And
how let me ask you, by whose will is Mr. Brothers
confined, whom you say is a true prophet of God ?
Now it will appear plain, that he who denies this
must deny his Bible. And I will prove that the will
' of God was never done on earth as it is*in heaven,
since the fall of man. And we might as well say,
our land is at peace in the midst of tumults and
wars, and the enemy pursuing us on every side,,
as say, we eqjoy Christ’s peaceable and- glorious
kingdom, and that his will is done on earths as it
102
Digitized by Google
is in heaven; while the enemy of our salvatiou is
daily working in the hearts of people to war against
God and his followers. Was it not so, what need
had our Saviour to come and destroy the works of
the devil, if he did not work in the hearts of men
to do evil? And what need had Chiist to con­
quer death, hell, and the grave, if the devil did
no t try to conquer man ? Do we not say, we are
tied and bound by the chain of our sins, Lord,
o f thy great pitiful mercy loose us ? Did not our
Saviour say, the God of this world had blinded
their eyes, that in seeing they could not see, and in
heating they could not understand ? I might fill
a book with texts of scripture, to prove the devil
is the gran^enemy of'mankind. Our Saviour com­
pared him to thestfong man armed entering a house,
till there cometh one stronger than he, and bindeth
him. Now let all men know, that i t was written
o f our Saviour, the day of vengeance was in bis
heart.—On whom will men pray to bring that day ?
Upon Satan, to bind and cast him down, as being
the author of every evil ? Or will they wish to
•bring it on man, and say that all evil is done with­
out the devil's temptation ? But let no man misun­
derstand me, to suppose that casting the blame on
Satan is an excuse tor sin. No, we are command­
ed to draw near to’Christ, and he will draw neat
to us; resist the devil, and he will dee from u s;
but we cannot resist the devil without a strong
saving faith in Christ. It Mas a wrong faith
that destroyed the Jews, and not their want of
learning; for they were a people of the greatest
learning in the Scriptures; as being the chosen
of God, and to whom his oracles were committed.
But no man by learning can hud out G od; no
man can find out the Almighty to |>erfection.
Therefore it is written, by Faith are ye saved
and it is said, they perish through unbelief. Now,
if the Jews had had a saving Faith, they would have
103
Digitized by Google
known that the miracles our Saviour wrought could
not have been done without the power of God ;
and that power he would never have given to any
man, to assume the Son of God, if he was not.
Moses worked miracles as a man, and confessed
them to have been worked by the power of God,
He never professed himself more than man—yet,
the Lord concealed his body, that the children of
Israel might not worship him : But the body of
Christ was ordered to be worshipped; and our Sa­
viour himself commanded it to be done; and told
them, in and through his blood we must look for
Salvation. *Now, if men had a right faith in God,
they could never believe he would give that
power to a mere m an: for the Lord saith, I a»j
God, and there is none beside me : My honour
I will not give to another:—but the Father ho­
noured! the Son. And he saith, in the Psalms,
*
*Thou art my Son, this day have I begptten
th ee; and I will give thee the heathen for thine
inheritance, and the uttermost parts of the earth
for thy possession.*’ And he gave him a name
above every name, that at the name of Jssp s
every knee shall bow, and every tongue confess
that he was Lord over all. So lie gave him
power over all:—To arise from the dead. After
be was crucified he appeared in his perfect
Body as before; and could make himself knowq ;
or withhold their sight, that they might not know
him. This could not be done by any, unless
a God, superior in power to man. It was the
wrong faith the Jews had in God, that blinded
their eyes, and made them become an outcast na­
tion. -For when they knew God they worshipped
him, not as God, who said his h o n o u r he never
would give to another: but if Christ had not been
his Son, as he said, he must have given his
honour td another. To give him a name in the
Bible above every name, and give him power upon
104
Digitized by Google
earth above every man. And to convince mankind
that he was the M essiah, He said, at his second
coming, when the fulness of time was come, he
would send his Son, made of a W o m a n , made un­
der the law , to redeem those that were under the
law, that no man might be deceived. For was he to
come in the fulness of his Spirit, and reveal his
whole will to man,—throw open all the mysteries
of the Bible by man—and give him the power of
working miracles; then, he would rob himself of
the honour due unto his N a m e ; and give the
glory of his Son to a mere man : The Gospel must
perish, and the Jews would soon say, “ This is the
Messiah— This is the Christ foretold by the pro­
phets” So they would never look on him whom
they had crucified—nor at the name ofJ esus there
is no knee would bow—nor uo tongue confess he
was the Sa v io u r of mankind. The Old and New
Testament must be null and void ; and man be
pref'erred above his. Maker and Saviour, who died
tor man, to redeem him from death, hell, and sin.
Now, to prevent man from robbing God of his ho­
nour, which is due unto his name, and to make
Christ, as foretold by his Prophets, the desire of
every nation; he hath revealed himself to a womaify
that no man might boast apd take this merit to
himself. I have shewed in my former writings,
the wrong faith of the Jew s; and here 1 have
shewn you w hat would confirm that wrong faith,
if the Lord revealed himself to a man. And the
Gentiles must have as wrong a faith as the Jews,
if they judged the Lord would carry on a work
that was not of his Spirit, in sp wondrous a man­
ner, to strengthen the hands that hang down, to
confirm the feeble knee: (perfectly as recorded in
holy w rit)—The earth to persecute the woman—
the earth to help the woman—rthe serpent to cast
out floods after her, when she was fled from hip,
which he did for seven days, after she was gone to
ft place prepared for her.* So they that have a
* Read Revelations, Chapter 12.
.105
Digitized by Google
a right faith will see their Bibles clear; and he
that hath a wrong faith will perish through un­
belief. This is my answer.— Here comes the an­
swer of the Spirit, spoken in verse:—
“*Now, Joanna, thee FU answer :
Perfect as the words do stand,
Perfect so is all my Gospel:
So thou answer now the man.
For the last that thou hast written,
Must in nublic print appear ;
There my roes shall sure be smitten,
That prefer another here,
To be ec|uai with their Savioub.
Therefore, now I’ve tried man;
I let Satan foil the Prophet,
For to shew my every plan.
Satan there did strong appear,
My Gospel to destroy ;
And so J let the fool go on,
The truth for to enjoy,
To shew you plain, ye sons of men,
A man would never do,
For m b to come in hisoxvnform.
And bring all to your view :
No, this is done to shew the man,
How I mustfirst appear;
And must be in the woman'sform ,
To make my Gospel clear.
Now I shall come to answer pan*
How the creation stood:
The first I did create the man.
And there I shall allude;
As *twas from him the woman came,
Then see, the m a n was tv& ;
The man and womanfirst were one—
And bring all to your view.
So now, the same, ye sons of men,
As Adam stood at first;
The woman surely from him came.
And here the truth mu«t burst-
For 1am come, be’t known to man,
The s e c o n d A d a m f o u n d ;
And from m e is the woman come;
Perfect like Eve's the sound.
So now regain, ye sons of men,
111 make your roountarns strong t
The sword I left in paradise, . . .
Shall bring you back - \
106
Digitized by O o o Q l e
The Trbb ob Life brings on the strife;
I told you so before •,
A child does struggle in the womb,
' When life in him appears;
So in the womb of Providence
All this hath been decreed,
When I, like Adam, do appear.
To bruise the serpent’s head.
T h e perfect man, like Adam, come.
For to create aU new;
The ways of hell for to condemn,
And all his arts to shew ;
Then from my side I took the Bride,
As Adam came at Erst;
And your Redemption is applied—
And here the truth must burst. ;
Because from me the Bride you see,
As Eve did Erst appear;
N e to f the dust created sh e,
But of the man, see dear.
Bone of his bene, to man was shewn:
I said, the two were one:
A Second Adam must appear.
Ere your Redemption come.
But how can ye so blinded be ?
Can Adam now appear,
Without his Eve, do you believe ?
Now, see the mysteries clear.
No, I must come, in Adam’s form,
For to create all new ;
And from me must the woman come,
The good Fruit for to shew: .
And she*must end, as Eve began, r
The strong dispute witli hell s
If Satan Erst did conquer there,
And man with her did fall ^
Then now, see plain, ye son» of men,
The woman conquers here if
And by herstand, is my command,
The T&bb o f Livb is near.
For every way, to you I say.
The Sword did surely turn ;
And every way, to you I say,
I'll make her foesto mourn.
Oh ! how could ye so simple be.
To think the T ubs of L ibb
So very strongpreservM should be,
If I’d not end the strife ?
107 *
Digitized by Google
But now *ee clear the mystery there—
Had man cat it atfirst;
Under the fall, 1 tell you all,
Then fatal lift must burst.
Then he must live and ever grieve,
Lamenting of his fall;
For how could 1the man reprieve,
In fetters bound by all ?
Satan would say I told a He—
Was man pronounced dead ?
And as the T ree or Life was nigh,
And man to it was fled,
And eaten there; did he appear
Where life did all remain.
Then how his guilt could I e'er clear ?
What life could he regain ?
For all was lost, as it was plac'd,
If eaten, by thefa ll.
I ask, what life could he e'er taste ?
What lands could he recall ?
No mortgage, see, was left for he,
That I could e'er redeem;
For, out of hand, you’d sold your land,
And Satan’s claim would come,*
To tell you all, now from the fall,
That as the t r e e did He;
As death did leave, judgment must give,
And you for ever die.
For so did fall, he’d tell you all;
And judgment must appear;
The T ree o f L iff could he recall,
TJ he had eaten there t
By Satan's hand then he must stand,
For so the tree did fall;
It was to live for evermore;
And so you must live all.
So now see plain, ye sons of men,
Which way the tree did fall.
The T ree o f L i f e must end the strife,
And the good fruit recall.
So death did leave, be not deceiv’d,
And judgment so must find;
T he T ree of Life must end the strife,
Preserved for mankind.
Because that there it did appear, ~
For all was plac’d for man:
And his Redemption m w draws near,
The Tree o f L if I% at hand,
108
Digitized by Google
That ne’er was tasted, though ’twas plac’d
A tree for man below:
Then now be wise, ye fallen race,
Satan mustfeel the Mow.
The tree did fall, I tell you all,
A fatal curse for him ;
As death did leave, judgment must give
The T rek of Life to man.
I sent n y sword to guard it there—
My Gospel now shall come.
So learned men, you must begin
% To throw your Bibles wide;
And all the mysteries now see plain,
, And how they are all applied.;
* Your Bibles, see, they are hid from ye,
You do not understand;
But the creation now you see,
* And now the whole command.
Now I’ll begin to speak more plain.
And end with man the strife;
Tell me, ye shepherds, what I mean,
To save the T rbs o f Lifk ?
Now I shall begin with my Shepherds, and end
Myth my Sheep; and call you back to the Creation.
W hat, suppose ye, was the Tree of Life preserved
for, with Cherubim and a flaming sword to keep '
the way of the Tree of Life ? Let my Shepherds
answer what means the Creation, if they deny the ^
Redemption. You say, as a tree falls, so it lies; as
death leaves us, so judgment finds us. O, simple
men S how do ye understand the words? Do men
let a tree lie where it falls? Do they not immediate­
ly removeit, and cut it to pieces ? Do men leave a
corpse for Judgment, to find it where death leaves
it ? I tell you, N o ! Death leaves a man, if he strikes
him, dead, on his bed; but you soon remove him to
the cold chambers of the grave. But you say it is
spiritually metyit. This is as wrong as the other.
W hen death has struck a man dead, his spirit wan-
dereth to his home unenlightened, to that perfect
state of happiness or misery he is soon to enter
into ; but, at the great day, judgm ent will,not find
him in that stofe. The righteous will then be ten
thousand times more enlightened than at their
109
Digitized by Google
no
death ; and the wicked, who died in a hardened
state of sin, judgment will find then in a state of
bitter repentance, when they have suffered the
punishment due to their sins ; though it is written,
there is no repentance in the grave, whither ye are
going. N o ; the dead cannot repent in the grave;
for there they are turned to their native dust; and
the dead cannot praise God. But the spirits ofjust
men will praise him with ten thousand times more
harmony, happiness, and love, than while they’are
bound in these earthen vessels of clay. So I shall
shew the meaning of the words—“ As the Tree
falletb, so it lieth: As death leaves us, sojudgment
will find us.” Then it cannot be applied to men’s
departing from this world to another. But, as the
Tree fell in Paradise, so it lieth, for judgm ent to !
find it. The evil fruit was plucked ; and the good
fruit remained : and the curse was laid upon that
old serpent, called the devil, to be ab^ve every
living creature. So death left.him; and so judg*
ment shall now find him. Death brought the man
and woman to see they were naked; and so judg­
ment now finds them : for there is no more wisdom
in man, to understand the mysteries of my Bible;
than there was clothing on Adam and Eve. For
now I am come to try their wisdom, I find them na­
ked, and they hide themselves from my presence.:'
■so death left them; and sojudgment now finds them.
The man cast the blame on the woman : so death 1
left him ; and sojudgment now finds him. The wo­
man cast the fault on the serpent: so death left
her; and sojudgment now finds her. B ut^prfh did
not leave her temporally dead: and now judgm ent
finds her alive. Death did not strike Adam totally
dead: and now judgment finds him alive. D eatn
left him to be fruitful; to multiply, a n d w rep1enish
the earth : and sojudgipent hath now found h im :
as some1have beguh, to Jnultiply ^nd replenish the
earth. Death lefthifs, add cast him out of the g ar­
den, and placed a Sword to keep the Tree of L ife:
DigtttzeehbyJ
Google
I l l
so now judgment has found him using that swordio
defend himself to preserve the Tree of Life—that be
may fight and overcome, and have part in the Tree
of Life. For as death left you, judgment has found
you. As the tree tell, so it shall lie. It fell with the
greatest curse on the serpent, which is called the
- devil: and so judgment hath found him deserving
a curse above every living creature. And that he
. shall find when I begin to answer him.
, And man shall see it plain:
As death did leave, judgment will find—
Awake, ye sons of men !
Straight as the line, they all will find
How death did leave thentf there;
f And now, youll see the mystery,
Judgment must so appear.
But I’ll end here, and say no more,
Till learned men dispute ;
If they can’t see the mystery clear,
I’d have them to be mute;
And own their understanding hid,
They cannot see it plain;
Then I shall shew the Corner Stone
That shall the whole maintain.” * >
The following is spoken by the Spirit; which
will assign the reasons given to me, why the Lord
hath permitted the Powers of Darkness to foil the
Prophet, Mr. Brothers.
“ To convince mankind of the folly of choosing
a man to be invested in the power of my Spirit,
before I pour out my Spirit upon many at once.
Thou knowest, in the beginning they stumbled at
my revealing my secrets to a woman. This ap­
peared so unlikely a thing to mankind, they would
give no credit to the truth of it. Now, to con­
vince men of their error,—of my coming in the
power of my Spirit to a m an; I permitted Satati
to go as an angel of light, and foil the prophet, by
telling him whatever lies he could; to shew the
folly of mankind, how soon they would worship
the creature above their Creator, and forget the
Lord that bought them. For, I see many of his
mad followers have no desire for m e , or my
♦
Digitized by Google
peaceable Kingdom; only the honours of m en:
therefore, I ordered all these tilings to go into
E
rint, as a reproof to my Prophet; and if he
umbles himself, he shall be exalted ; but if he
exalteth himself, he shall be abased.
And now 1 will tell thee why I suffered him |o
be led by a wrong spirit. After prophesying in my
name, and many of his prophecies coming true,. I
suffered a lyiug spirit to deceive him, ^is some thatr
believed in him judged him more than man; and
looked on him as the Saviour, who was to come •
and redeem Israel. Gut that Redemption must
come by the blood of C hrist: and as long as bis
mad believers jodge him more than man, and rub
me of the honour due unto my name, the Pro­
phet will never have the power to work one mi­
racle. It is not the prison confutes me from work­
ing miracles for his deliverance—no more than it
did for Peter. But know, the Qisciples judged
themselves but men ; though they had the power
of working miracles, they did not boast of any
. pouter that was given to them ; but gave unto the
Lord the glory due unto his name.—And this ye
must all do, before .the Lord will work any mighty
deliverance at all. The Lord will nev£r give onp
man the power of working miracles alone; be­
cause no man shalKworship man as a Saviour.”
Here end the words spoken by the Spirit.
But this does not exclude him from being the
Prophet, and prove, that the Lord has never spoken
by him at all; for I am well convinced the Lord
did speak to him concerning the war; as he well
knew how it would end.—And no man could build
up what the Lord was pulling down. So, if a man
be punished for obeying the will of God, he will
punish those 4hat punish himi—I received a letter a
few weeks ago, saying, there was not one shower
more for keeping Mr. Brothers in prison.— But I
was immediately answered, “ If there was not oAe
the more, there should be two the less,”after the three
112
4
Digitized by G o o g l e
yedrs plenty werelover; which' is promised in my
first Book of Prophecies; and first Book of Let­
ters* page 31— “ But I have foiled them this sum*
mer. 1 sent rain to beat down the corn; and so
I Will beat down the sons of men. But as the
weather changed at th y . coming hither, out of
London, the second day o f disgust, to bring in a
glorious harvest this year ; so they may expect it
another year, till I have gathered all my wheat
into my garner, and all my friends are sealed up—
then let the chaff take care. I have promised three
years good harvests, if I findfriends to carry on
m y work : and if they do not draw back, I shall
not draw back.— But I have this year set signs be­
fore them,—I shall beat them down in my anger,
and burn them up in my hot displeasure.”
But let them not boast they have this year too
great a plenty, before they see the prices fixed,
and the harvest clearly over. But I was told, the
eighteenth o f July, ,in the midst of the rain, when,
my friends inquired concerting the harvest, there
should be a plenty this year for believers; for, if
the Lord cut short the harvest, he would cut short
the land also. “ JBut, .0 foolish people, and un­
wise ! Why do ye suffer Satan to blind your eyes
so, to call down curses upon your head, to hold
God to his threatening^, and riot to hjs promises ?
If the writings, were now of God, there must be
three good harvests, before the threatening harvest
can come to be bad. Then you would hold God to
his wprd, and the good harvests must appear. But
- Satan tempts you to plead the threatenings made
against you;—but not the promises made for you.
So ye perish for want of knowledge; and as your
faith js, it shall happen unto you. If you demand,
a bad harvest, a bad harvest shall come. But let
the three years plenty be over first—that plenty,
however, is partly destroyed, because of your un­
belief. So, if ye stumble at the noou-day sun, ye
will grope for the wall like the blind. No more
H
113
Digitized by Google
have men discerned their Bible; no more hare they
discerned thy writings, which were made by the
same Spirit. And as men are pleading, the threat-
enings in thy writings must come to make them
true—hut not the promises—So they are pleading
the Bible’s the same. They are holding God to
the threatenings pronounced against them ; but
never pleading thepromises made to them for man's
Redemption. Yet, they do not see that darkness
hath covered their eyes, and gross darkness die
hearts of the people.
But, as y6u are so eager for a famine, remember,
I told you in my third book, it would never come
in my days.* But as men have begun to challenge
that my writings are not true ; I now challenge
the whole world, and say, there never were pro­
phecies more clearly fulfilled in the Bible, than
miue have been from 1792 to this present day.
The war with France, Spain, and other nation^
came, as foretold by me, in 1792. The dearth
followed, as foretold by me at that time. Every
distress on the nation came to pass as I then wroteL
Every harvest hath come as 1 said. But how
could my writings be true, if .there had been a fa­
mine this year 1 For then there could not have
been three years plenty, as declared in my first
bpok,f if ministers began to search out the truth
of my writings — which is publicly known to the
world they have. O simple, and foolish people f
Did I not know better for myself, than ye know
for me, I would not have run the hazard* of dis­
puting with the powers of darkness, aa I did for
seven days, for all the world. And, I am well
assured, there is not one man upon earth who
could have stood in my place, and have held out
against the powers of darkness, as I did, without
the Lord was with him, no more than he could
make the world. Let any man or woman begin
in their own wisdom to say, the Lord s&ilh, (when
he had not spoken,) and declare, he had conunao-
* See Strsnge Effect*of Faith, page133. t Page IB, m at Beak,
114
Digitized by Google
115
ded them to seal up the people in his name; and
say, Satan should be cut off from the face of the
earth, if he tempted those that were sealed, as man
was, (being cast out of paradise,) when he ate the
forbidden fru it; and say, the Lord would rend the
kingdom from Satan, as he did from Saul, if he dis­
obeyed, as Saul did ; and as Pharaoh was destroyed
in pursuing the children of Israel, so should Satan
be destroyed, if he pursued by temptations those
that were sealed: for, as he had sat bounds to
the proud waves of tbesea; so had he sat bounds for
Satan the same. Now, let any man or woman do
this of their own selves, and say, the Lord had com­
manded, when he had not—and let the powersof
darkness break in upon them, and threaten their
lives, if they did not destroy these bonds, which they
had no authority to make;—they would soon find
themselves, like Belshazzar, when he saw the hand­
writing upon the wall, and his knees smote one
against another,—they would.soon find their hearts
fail them for fear, and they would soon renouncea#
they had said, and beglad to escape with theirlives—
•
and, instead of binding Satan the stronger; they
wquld quickly give up ally and Satan bind them.
Fdr, if they had forged the name of the Lord,
he would never have delivered them—then what
rock had they to fly to ? I must be plain to tell
my readers, I could no more go through what I did
for seven days, if the Lord had not kepbnie above
myself by the strength of faith, than I could have
made the world. For the jarring of a clock, or the
moving of a door, did chill my blood in the nights,
till the promises of the Lofd broke in strong upon
roe, saying, “ Fear not, jo r I am with thee, and
nothing shall harm thee” So the promises of God
kept my spirits above myself; and made me say
In the words of a hymn,
“ Fearless of death, of ghastly heO,
“ I’ll break tbroogh every foe ;
" For arms of faith, and wings of love,
" Shall bear me conqueror through.
a 2
Digitized by Google
C
f In vain the sons of earth, or hell, * .
" Tell me ten thousand frightful things;
" My God in safety makes me dwell,
“ Beneath the shadow of his wings.
" Let earth its war with fury wage,
“ And hellish darts be hurl’d;
" Now I can smile at Satan’s rage,
" And face the frowning world.
“ Let cares, like a wild deluge, come,
" Or seas of sorrow fall;
“ God is my hope, my heaven, my home,
“ M y God is all in aU
My rock, my anchor, now is sure ;
My God is mine for evermore.
And I, like Eve, may stand amaz’d
At this Creation, now, and gaze
With equal wonder so on man,
If they can’t see from whence the hand,
Wondrous in wisdom all divine;
Wondrous in power ; but, oh ! not mine;
That preserved me in the flames*
All I own to Jesus’ name;
Then to Jesus I’ll submit:
Cast my Crown beneath his feet;
All my ways to him resign,
He kept me By his power divine.
I, the wine-press trod alone;
With me to assist was none,
Unless it was my Saviour's hand, *
That did support me, then to stand
By faith; it was the gift of God ;
And Satan now must teel the rod,
As he his Maker did blaspheme.—
Awake from sleep, ye sons of men,
And you, like Adam, stand amaz’d,
For Eve on you doth strangely gaze;
To see the sleepy sons of men, .
Tl>at cannot see the'mystery plain.
Your Bibles you have thrown aside;
Your senses they are lost in pride, *
Who judge all from a woman’s hand—
Such talents great can man command *
No, you like Foxes do appear,
The grapes are high and sour here ;
Because you cannot reach the hand.
Confess thejudgment’s lost in man,
That cannot see the mystery clear,
But judge all from a woman here.
Here endeththc 27 th o f August*
116,
Digitized by Google
In the night, I had many strange © team s.— First,.
I thought the devil appeared in the s\iape o f a man,
and disputed with me about my w ritings; but did
n ot aim to h u rt me, which I thought bearable to
contend with. I then aw oke; and, m editating on my
dream , m any powerful argum ents came to me con­
cerning the R evelations; now that I was come to
this house, w hich was prepared jo r me, the truth o f
the Revelations should come on fast to be fulfilled;
and, as the wheels were passing day and night by
m y window, so the wheels of the Lord should never
cease, till the Revelations were fu lfille d As I was
thus com m uning with the Spirit, a w hirlw ind came
round my head; and, in an instant, I was carried I
knew not w here; but tho u g h t the devil cam e to
me, and I was fighting w ith him , and found m y
strength was too weak to conquer. I began then to
be in prayer, that the Lord would assist m e; when I
awoke. Being afraid to go to sleep again, I began
to be in earnest prayer, when I was promised no­
thing should harm me, for the Lord was w ith me.
A fter some time, I fell asleep, and had a beautiful
dream , but do not recollect it. But I shall give the
answer to w hat is penned;
117
N o w I ’ll appear to answ er here—
M ankind are all asleep :
A nd Satan gains the pow er there,
Your w eakness he finds it.
T h e senses gone he tinds o f men ;
T h e w hirlw ind there doth ris e :
H e boldly does com e in on them ,
A nd all their senses die.
T h en lull'd to sleep, his pow er to keep,
And there he conquers all:
T h e strength o f men he finds is gone,
A nd so Tie m akes them fall.
B ut w hen aw ak e, do not m istak e;
I see your strength is g o n e ;
B ut now begin, ye sons o f m en,
T o do as thou hast done.
Y our w eakness see, and trust to me,
A nd w ak e out o f your sleep ;
Digitized by Google
And pray that guarded you may be*
A nd then you safe I ’ll keep.
T h is very dream , I tell you plain,
It w as design’d by mb,
T o shew it to th e sons o f m en,
H ow Satan conquers ye.
W h en ye begin to ju d g e the thing,
T h e w hirlw ind doth a p p e a r;
A nd Satan lulls you all to sleep,
A nd then he conquers there.
B ut sleep no m ore, till all is o ’e r,
T h e night is hastening o n ;
A nd Satan will gain footing there,
H is w hirlw inds fast will com e ;
T o lull to sleep, his strength w ill break,
A nd you benighted there ;
B ut if you wish my hand to keep,
T h en now begin in p ra y e r;
T k a t you m ay w ake from your m istake,
As you ju d g e all a dream;
A nd Satan’s strength on you does break.
W hich I shall now explain.
H e held thy hand, be it know n to m an.
A nd would not let it g o ;
B ut w hen aw ake, he did com m and,
B ut could not hold it so.
B ecause thy hand in faith did stand,
A nd thou didst conquer th e re ;
A nd so the same Isa y to m an,
T h e re ’s no one need to tear ;
I f they aw ake from their m istake,
A nd on the Lo*d rely. ‘
T h e R evelations now w ill break,
T h a t every soul w ill s e e ;
T h e w om an here does now ap p ear,
Untoherplace is come,
T h a t I for her did sure p repare,
Until her %
cork is dome.
So let m en see the m ystery,
H o w I did Bruce co m p are;
A nd from the vision skew 'd to thee,
T h a t I w as surely there.
T h e Trees do stand by my com m and, *
A s 1 shew ed thee at first;
A nd here the G ood Fruit it shall stand,
A nd every truth shall burst.
T h e fruit shall fall, I tell you aU,
T h a t is not on the tr e e ;
Digitized by Google
l\»
A nd in this ] did, than
T h a t every soul shall see.
So I ’ll m ake clear thy com ing h ere,
Before I’ve m ade an e n d ;
T h e W om an clothed w ith the f& ir
Shall makeall nation bend.
T h e fruit shall fall, I tell you aV,
T h a t w ith her do not stand—
■ Black w as th e veil around them all,*
A nd this you m ay com m and.
B u t on th e T re e Jim. good fruit see.
A nd that shall now rem a in :
A solid berry thou did st seo»t
A nd I have solid men*
W ith m e to stan d ; I teU youc land}
T h a t solid m en are h e r e ;
B ecause m y S pirit m iides their h a n d s;
So let the fools ta k e care.
W h en unbelievers do akm dL
T h en m ad they’ll ju d g e th e nest*
W h ere n tr u e saving faith is foun d s .
A nd so it now does h er* . .
B at, O m ad m en I wiU you begin
T o wound m y honour here, .
T o » y a w om en 1 w ould screea. ,
A n a m ake her ju d g m en t clem i
W h en earth and hell in rage d o sareH,
Shall she confound them all,
T h a t there’s n n m a u w ith h e r can stand,
F or to condem n her call ?
T h o u g h , sens o f hell, in rage you sw ell,
W h ere Satan’s spirit guides,
- A n d say it all cam e from herselfr^*
A nd fere’s y o v r I* a n » denied.
T h en now 1 com e te a n m e r w an#
W hat fools do you Appeari
In w isdom like « s r s e n e enP s ta n d ;
A nd w ill you p ro v e it bare£. . .
W h e n I begin to^henrJO mat»
T h e present and fo e p u t,. » .
You m ost ooa&fis no w oasan’s hand
C ould in such order burst.
N o , no, uafo a m k 'tfo I am c o m .
A nd in the w e M s n ’s c o r k .
Youjudg’d m e in th e prison} stro n g ,
A pd so your G od y o n sear*.
• Book of Prophecies, first P « * f*gR0a. t Page £1.
coatnsd state of Mr. Brothers.
Digitized by Google
f Alluding to tfci
B ecause the nan you w orship him ,
M y G ospel is denied.
A Jonah's/V opkrtdoe* appear,
A nd now I'll low er your pride.
M y second com ing cannot be,
T ill Jonah does a p p e a r;
A nd now m y G ospel you m ay see,
Bring mb a Jonan here,
I r e you ctfn plead, as you have said.
T h a t Israel I ’ll redeem ; : /
Jerusalem ’s, low walls rebuild-*- :
Y e sim ple sons o f m en, > > *
C an never b e, I now teU ye,
T ill Jonah doth appear | : ^ ^ ^
A nd, in thb bally o r the ivttmky • *
I tell you all he'sdhaMim *
* - • •
F or 1*11q m a k plani; y e sons o f m en,
T h e prison'is thesame:
A nd every day and night see here,
A nd six you know are com e ; 1
B ut y et h e’s com e, be it know n to man,
F or to out-run the tim e; ■
T h en to m y G o sp el n ow I'll com e—
Untimelyfruit yotfUfind,
Shall surely spring, I say, to raen^
A s he'th out-run th e tim e ;
A nd if you do confine the m an,
Your land, the same you'll find
W ill be shut up from every hope—
U ntim ely fruit w ill co m e;
T h a t is, your harvests sure must drop, •
B ut crops you w ill find none.
I f you go on to keep the man
Strong in the prison bound,
You all w ill find a Jonah com e.
A nd I am in the sound.
T h e w om an here does now appear,
A nd I am in herform;
A nd if you now im prison h er,
ThenTil bring on thestorm.
A h, simple m en! your thoughts are vain,
T o ju d g e me in the m a n ;
W h a t! should the prison m « contain,
A nd 1 not break the bands ?
D id I appear in prison there,
A s you suppose the m an ;
T h en ev ery Dond I’d surely tear,
A nd soonVdshake your laud, <
1-20
Digitized by Google
N o : see your call* as o n ce for all*
I died upon the tr e e : '
A nd w here's the Prison you can call
Thatshall imprison m e ? .
No* sim ple men* y o u r thoughts are vain*
I a m n o t im p riso n 'd t h e r e ;
I f it w as so* you all should know*
T h e walls I'd quickly tear.
B ut then to m an I know they'd come*
A nd w orship a t his fe e t;
Andday th e P n n ce o f Peace was com e— ■
M y G ospel all forget.
A pplied to he* tbep all m ust be*
Isaiah's w ords a p p e a r:
“ T h e m ighty C ounsellor now w e s e e ;
4
4 H is governm ent is h ere ."
u Behold th e man*" the Je w s w ould cpme*
“ O ur P rophet did fo retel:
4
4 A nd perfect as he spoke o f him*
4
4 W e see his pow er to sw ell.".
So th ey 'd begin* y e sim ple men*
Toplacethe Saviour there;
A n d all m y G ospel th ey 'd co n d em n ; .
A nd w ho one truth could clear*
T o plead for m e ? I now tell ye*
M y G ospel's throw n a sid e ;
I f I such w onders shew by he*
In vainfor man 1 died.
N o S a v i o u r '* b l o o d hath m an to plead*
A nd no one to redeem;
I f he* like Moses* now should lead
T h e prom is'd land to gain* -
T h en yotfU begin, as they did thep* - •
T ill I'd destroy you aU ; . -
A nd perish in th e w ilderness;
A nd thus w ould be your fell. /
Oh* sim ple m e n ; I tell you plain* •
I f I'd ord ain 'd it 90*
I know w h at calves w ould fill your brains
B efore you all to g o ; ,
The m an w ould be the calf for ye* V
A nd him you'd w orship th e re ;
A nd so the goldqf men I see*
Is bor'd into your ears*
A sim ple thing* that is but vain*
B ut M oses is not th e re ;
No* no* thergdis Jonah'sgonrd^
A n d all w ill w ither h e r e ; . .
121
Digitized by Google
W h a t yoa build u p , a M oses’ h o p e,
L ike Jonah’s gourd witt die.
I t is to shew th e sons o f m en,
W h a t folly in them lie s ;
A s they began lor to condem n
M e, in die w o m a n ’s r u s ,
I then lei Satan lay the plan.
H ow m e they all w ould scorn,
I f I should cease th at w ay to m an:
B ut now I do ap p ear, '
I tell you, in th e w o m a n ’s v o n * ,
My Gospel fo r to clear*
So M oses see preserv'd to hp,
’T w as by the w om an’s h a n d :
A n d if like M esas b o w yoafti b e,
Then by the woman ekmd.
T h en Yu ap pear, no prison have
Your P rophet shall o ea fin e; *
N o prison w eds shall k e e p h e r t o e ;
I ’U tell you n e w m y m a id :
In h er I ’m com e in pow nr so strong.
A s I did say a t first;
So if the w om an yoa confine,
T h en there aty i t m n o v h shaft b u r s t;
T h en you shall see tk e s to e a g th in mb,
I f you im prisoa h e r ;
T hen the true P rophet y ea m ay see,
W h ere I do now appear.
. T o conquer hell, y ea aft k n ew v d t
I said I ’d com e againr *
T o conquer death mod bring a j U n b ;
M y G ospel I ’ll m ain tain :
T o conquer m en, I said I’dc o m ,
L ik e children to appear?
B a t m ust be in th e w o m a n 's r o a s i ,
O r mail m ust conquer here.
So horn again, PH n ew m aintain,
M y children all m ust be*
I f y o u my km pdom new w i t g u n , .
T h a t’s now in store for ye.
B ut I’ll end here, an d say n o m ane j
B ut to m y G ospel o a m e ;
I ask you how youB m ake 2 d e a r,
I f f do not perform
A ll I have said ? T h e man'sm i& bd;
So let m y w ords ap p e a r;
A nd tell m e h o w those th ings yen’ll pined*
A nd Jonah not appear? •
*
Digitized by Google
For I have said in my Gospel, Faittfleu and per*
verse generation! looking for signs, and there shall
no sign be given unto it, but the sign of the
prophet Jonah: And Ie ft them and departed,
put, in another Gospel, 1 told my disciples the
destruction of Jerusalem; that they should be led
away captive into all nations, and Jerusalem should
be trodden down of the Gentiles, until the rimes o f
the Gentiles he fulfilled. Then there should be
signs in the heavens, moon, and stars; and tkm lift
up your heads; for your redemption draweth nigh3
and know, that the kingdom of God is nigh a t
hand ; but watch and pray that ye may he counted
worthy to escape all these things that shall come to
pass, that ye may stand before the Soa of Man. Bat
know also, that then there will be one fold and
one shepherd. I lay down my life, that 1 may
take it again. But the Comforter, which is tbit
*Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my
name, he shall teach you all things, and bring ail
things to your remembrance whatsoever 1 nave
said unto you. Ye have heard how.I said, 1 go
away, and come again. I have told you before it
comes to pass, that when it does come to pass, ye
might believe;—for the prince ofthis work! cometh
and hath nothing in x s .0
And now I shall come to the 15th chapter of S t.
Paul’s 1 Corinthians, verse 40th, Ac. “ But now is
Christ risen from the dead, and become the first
fruits of them that slept. For since by man came
death, by man came also the resurrection of the dead.
For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be
nsadealive. B utevery man in his own order, Christ
the firstfru its; afterward, they that are Christ’^
at his coming. Then cometh the end, when he shall
have delivered up the Kingdom to God, even the
Fat hs a ;wben he shallhave put down all rule,and all
authority,and power. For he must reign till he hath
put all enemies under his feet The last enemy to
be destroyed is death,0 “ The head of every man »
J23
Digitized by Google
Christ; and {he head of the woman is the man. But
when the fulness ofthe time wascome,God sentforth
hisSon, made of a woman, made under the law, to
• redeem those underthe law, that we may receive the'
adoption of sons; and because ye are sons, God hath
tent forth the Sp i r i t of mis Son into your hearts,
whereby ye cry Abba, Father. Then-said he, Lo I
come to do thy will, O God. He taketh away the'
First, that he may establish the Second. Who is he
whoovercometh the world, but he that belicoeth that
J esus is the Son of G od. This is he that cometh by
water and. by blood; even J esus Ch r i s t ; not by
Water only, but by water ami by blood. And it
as the Spirit that beareth witness, because the Spirit
is Truth. For there are Three that bear record in
Heaven, the Father, the Word, and the Holy Ghost,
and these Three are One. And there are Three
that bear witness on Earth; the Spirit, the Water,
and the Blood, and these Three agree in one. If
we receive the witness of men, the witness of God
is greater. For this is the witness of God, which he
hath testified of his Son, He that believeth on the
Son of God hath the witness in himself. He that
believeth not God, hath made him a liar; because
he believeth not the record G od gave of his Son .”
After I had placed these Scriptures together, as I
was ordered, I was then ordered to open my Bible
three times, and write down the first verse in the
page where I opened: Romans, xiii. II. “ Then
now it is high time to awake out of sleep; for now
is our Salvation nearer than when we belevoed. The
night is far spent; the day is at hand; let us hterefor
cast off the works of darkness,and let us put on the
armour of light.” The next, — Zechariah, i. SO;
“ And the Lord shewed me four carpenters;” The
third,—2 Chron. xxxiv. 30. “ And the king went
up into the house of the Lord, and all the men of
Judah, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, aud the
prie8ts,and the Levites, and all the people, great and
small, and he read in their ears all the words of the
124
Digitized by
,Google
book of the covenant which was found in the hyise
of the Lord.”—Here is the Answer of the Spirit
to the foregoing texts:—
“ Now let the learned men appear 4
And answer my demand ;
How that these Scriptures they will clear,
If that my word aon't stand ?
I tell you plain, ye sons of men,
My Bible's thrown aside, • '
Although to preach it you pretend;
But now I'll lower your pride,
Unless you'll come ana will explain
The chapters here are penn'd.
The Prophet Jonah now is come,
And you may judge the end.
But will you say your sheep may die,
And all come unaware, 1
My threatening you do all defy ?
Then, shepherds, now take care.
If you can't see the mystery, >
I am in the Spirit come: *
' The Comforter you all may see,
To whom these things are known.
Three shepherds here do now appear.
And witness bear of me :
And now to make the mystery clear,
I Shepherds have but three.
The three above, you all may prove,
Do bear a Shepherd's name;
Or how my Gospel can you prove -
That I a Shepherd came ?
Myself I call'd, I told you all,
. My flock I call'd my sheep;
Because my word is on record; .
And now my word you keep.
Then sure the Three alike must be,
" And it is shepherds all;
And so on earth I have three—
And men behold your call:
*Tis time to know how things do go,
Your flock to gather round ;
- The flight’s far spent, you all shall know;
, Awake, andjudge the sound.
You may see clear what prince came here.
But nothing found in me;
But could you judge a woman here
Could e'er stand out like she ? 1
I tellyou no ; you ail shall know, J
The prince did now appear; '
125 ,
Digitized by Google
186
• But nothing he did find in thue,
* Like Eve to conquer there.
Then now see plain, ye sons of men,
You plac'd me so wit!) man ;
And so with you I shall contend—
*
For the first fruits are come.
And I a m the first,as I was plac'd ;
Like m a n I do appear;
And of the woman 1 am the head ;
And so I’ve conquer'd here.
But as to man, he cannot come
To say he is the head ;
For who can guide the woman's hand
In all as I have laid ?
No, simple men ; you must see plain,
That more than man is here:
„ And all her words I'll now maintain,
And prove the end is near,
. For to call in my every land—
xSo let the Psalms appear." '
I was ordered to open my Bible; and I opened
it to these words in the 86'th Psalm, and 9th verse
— “ All nations, whom tltou hast Made, shall come
and worship before thee, O Lord, and shall glorify
thy name” Now 1 shall end this Bock with the
words oF the Psalms.
“ I have begun, and I will make an end. I am
the first fruits of them that sleep ; and my Three
Shepherds have testified of m e ; and now I will
not rest, till 1 have brought all nations to that
Psalm, and to those words. But I will not hurt the
earth, or the sea, till I have sealed up my servants,
which I allow to continue till the end of the Third
Year, in the new date. Therefore, I said, if men
were workers with me, I would send three years
of good liarvests. So now, awake, ye shepherds !
mourn ye priests ! for* the sheep will be required a t
the shepherds’ hands; if they perish in their sins,
and you warn them not, their blood I will require
at your hands. For now the axe is laid to the
root, and it shall be cut down. For to his own
words he shall stand. Here is the meaning o f
Election and Reprobation ; here is the mystery
why I ordered thee to contend with him ; and to
his own justice will I now hold him,—
-And come
Digitized by Google
to the words ofJehu,—Who is on tny side?—Who ?
To thrdw him down, as Jezebel was. There shall
be no more left p f the powers of darkness here
upon earih, than there was of Jezebel, when I have
ended here. For now ^ v ill tell you a mystery:
The woman is a type of me, and a type of the
devil. Her betraying the man, as Satan betrayed
her,‘is a type of the devil; but her speaking the
truth, and first reproving the serpent, and then
casfing the blame on his head, is a type of me.
And these two types are represented in Jezebel,
Ahab’s wife, and Esther, the queen. Jezebel
tempted man with lies to the blackest crimes, to
murder the innocent and gain his vineyard; but
Esther ventured her life to save her people. And
now all men shall know that thou hast ventured
thy life to the saving of every soul that believes in
thee; that meanetlt, every soul.that believeth in
the promises of Godmade in the Bible, that are re­
vealed to thee, now to be fulfilled, and rely on theon
For my driving now's like Jehu’s,
Jezebel for to throw down:
Satan’s witchcrafts are so many.
Like that woman now he’s ibaad*
But I bid you look to Mary,
She did wash my feet with tears;
Now the woman I'll redeem her,
As she wip’d them with her hairs.
All your hairs I say are numbered;
You have nothing now to fear:
But my shepherds must not slumber,
Tilfthe end to them appears.
No, your sheep you must awaken,
That my listening flocks may see.
By the Lord they are not forsaken.
When I come to ransom ye. *
Thunder will roll from pole to pole,
And lightning last will fly;
The raging billows they will ro$T#
And armies in the sky
Will then be seen, when I begin
To chain the rebel down.
The shadow unto thee was seen;
The end will so be found.
127
Digitized b
yGoogle
. C The fiery Serpent will appear, - * . '
And fast the shots will fly ^
Then will my Frighted sheep begin
To know their Lord is nigh. f
So Til end here, and say no more ; :
For here the book n ^ t end ; >
And next, my Answer will appear
To all that thou hast penned
From Satan’s hand; behold, ye lands, '*
The woman’s answers there; *
But know, from me, the heart of her :
I surely did prepare.
But next will come, to man be’t known, ‘
* '' The answer of the tongue, .
And&un the Lord, with one accord.
Will both these answers spring/’
So the preparation of the heart, and the answer
of the tongue, are both from the Lord. ■
In m y next volume you will see the Answer o f
the Lord to the words of Satan. But it is said to
toe, if-the Lord had answered then, Satan would
never have 'told his mind. But he thought by
threatenings to have conquered the wotriart; now
the womau has conquered him. So if ye have
faith as a grain 'of. mustard seed, ye must ^qow
your Redemption is'nigh. But I must inform my
readers the blasphemy of Satan in this book is
not one twentieth part so bad as it wa$ in 1792.-—
So, I believe, the devils begin to fear and tremble. -
—And I hope, the Lord will, open the' ‘eyes-t^
men’s understanding, that they may believe and
fear also—and be looking for, and hastening to,
the coming oftour Lobd Jkst5&j0t^RIST»,
August 31, 18Q2. ;
125
LONDON: .
Printed by Marcliant arftGalabin,‘
Ingrain-Court; and sold by W. T or?a,
Chapel / lace, Duke-Street, Westmmster-Uoad, Southw&rlT; also by W.
S ymowds, Gandy-Lnne; and the Miss K v f l e i c h s , St. SidwelPs, Eneler ;
S. H i r s t , Leeds; YV. W a d m a s , York; J a m es L i g h t , Co*
,t n u y Street,
Stourbridge; E d m u n d B a k e r , limiuster ; C. B r a d l t - . r. ^beth, Bit*
ninghaia; R. Lioed^ m i t h , Gravesend; and T. Tun p is, Greenwich.
« (Price Two Shillings and Sir-Pence)
\
*
Digitized by Google
