{"name":"Copies Of Letters Sent To The Clergy Of Exeter","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1813__southcott___copies_of_letters_sent_to_the_clergy_of_exeter.pdf","mytitle":"Copies Of Letters Sent To The Clergy Of Exeter","mylang":"de"}
“ ^ 51
COPIES OF
* — 4
L E T T E R S
SENT TO THE
CLERGY OF EXETER,
From 17*6Vo 1800,
WITH
COMMUNICATIONS a/idPROPHECIES
• y
Put in the Nezvspapers in 1813.
BY JOANNA SOUTHCOTT.
L O N D O N :
Frinfe&by M&rcbant and Galabin, Ingram»Gourt; and sold by W. Toxbr,
Chapel-Place, Dake-Skeet, Westminstejp^* Southwark; also by
th* Mbs Evileiohs, St. SidwelPs, Exeter; S. Hirst* Leeds; V
V
.
WadkaVi York ; James Imoht, Coventry-Street, Stourbridge; Edmuiir
Baker, Ilminster; C. Bradley, Digbeth, Birmingham; John Nxsut,
Graresend; and T. Turpin, Greenwich. "
1813.
E N TE R E D A T STA.TIONERS* H A L L .
Digitized by Google
•' \ ! v
Digitized by Google
U
A
n
1
4
36
i
I SHALL begin this Book with the Prophecies,
which I was ordered to put into the newspapers,
as they may otherwise be lost.
The first advertisement, in the Times paper,
Oct. 28, 1813;
Joanna Southcott's Letter to the Nation.
I, J o a n n a So u t h c o t t , have been more than
twelve years publicly warning the nation of what
the Lord hath revealed unto me he will do upon
the earth ; and the events have been daily fulfilling
abroad and at home, which causes some to believe
the Visitation to be from the Lord; while others,
with the most infamous abuse and falsehood, have
publicly declared me to be an Impostor} and others,
with the same ignorance and folly, say that my
Writings are from the devil, full of blasphemy, and
wondered that the Bishops should have suffered me
to go on in this manner. I have borne the mock*
ery and abuse of men ; but now let all their wonder
cease; for I shall return to mock them, as they
have mocked me, and prove it is the devil, in the
form of men, firom whence all this malice and per­
secution proceed.
And now I shall say with David, “ If I have
been vile, I will still be viler:” and if I have
been bold, I will be bolder.—To my other Prophe­
cies I have added two Books, lately published,
i entitled, “ Book of Wonders}” and five more will
^ appear hereafter, which I defy all the Bishops in
«
• England, "the Members of Parliament, and all the
4 Judges iti the land, with all the judgment they
can form together, to be able to prove these two
books of Wonders, with the other Prophecies,
were ever brought round by the wisdom ana know-
A 2
6 4 R - 1 - 5 3
Digitized by Google
ledge of the devil, or by the wisdom and know­
ledge of an Impostor.
Let the Bishops come forward w ith. the Rev.
Mr. Pomeroy, and I will soon convince them that
I could as soon make the world, as I could make
my writings, and bring them round in the manner
they have been brought round to be fulfilled. I.
am not so wise as the world makes m e; therefore,
I shall give unto the Lord the honour and glory
that is due unto his name : and those that say they
are from the devil, I shall turn their blasphemy
upon their own heads; because it is blasphemy to
say, that such wisdom, knowledge, and power,
can be in the devil, And I was answered this
morning, that if men went on in this way, and the
Bishbps did not awaken, to prove the calling is
from on high, to stop this blasphemy, in men, that
awful judgments should now come on, upon them
and upon the nation: for these are the words said
unto m e:—
“ I will laugh at their calamity; I will mock
“ when their fear cometh ; when your fear cometh
as desolation, and your destruction cometh as a
“ whirlwind: when distress and anguish come
“ upon you; then shall they call upon MB, but I
*
* will not answer; they shall seek me early, but
*
* they shall not find m e: for I have looked and
*
* there is none to help ; and I wondered that there
“ was none to uphold; therefore mine own arm
“ brought salvation unto m e ; and my fury upheld
“ m e ; and I will tread down the people in mine
“ anger, and make them drunk in my fury; I will
“ bring down their strength to the earth.”
This is the voice of the Ix>rd unto me, from the
scripture Prophecies.— “ The watchmen are blind;
“ they are all ignorant; they are all dumb dogs
“ that cannot bark, sleeping, laying down to
“ slumber.”—But this is the answer of the Lord to
me—*
*They shall be visited of the Lord of hosts
4
Digitized by Vj O O Q I C
“ with thunder and with earthquake, and great
“ noise, with storms and tempests, and the name
“ of devouring fire. Stay yourselves and wonder,
“ cry ye out, and cry, they are drunken, but not
“ with wine; they are staggered, but not with
“ strong drink. The Lord shall go forth as a
mighty man ; he shall stir up jealousy as a man
“ of w ar; he shall cry, yea, roar ; he shall prevail
against his enemies.—I have longtime holden
*
■
* my peace; I have been still and refrained my-
“ self; now will I cry like a travailing woman : I
“ will destroy and devour at uiu,e.”
Here are the threatenings, that I am now ordered
to bring out to the Nation, of the Scriptures that
the Lord will fulfil, if men now carelessly sleep,
after t h i s w a r n i n g ; but if they awake as men
out of sleep, and obey the call; then they may
look to the Promises in the following chapters:
Isaiah 1—8, 9, chapter xlvi. chapter Ixv. and
chapter lxvi.
This I am ordered to put in the public papers;
and if I have no one to come forward to plead my
cause for me, the Lord is working a way for me to
plead it myself, and shame all that shamed me, and
confound all that confounded me.
Now as Rowland Hill called my friends three-
and-twenty mad fools, for believing that my Visi­
tation was from the Lord; let him bring forward
three-and-twenty mad fools to prove these Two
Books, which I have lately published, with my
other Prophecies, were ever brought round by the
wisdom of a. woman, or the wisdom of the devil;
then they must be mad fools indeed, if they at­
tempt i t ; for it has been none but mad fools that
have written a book against me yet, by Satan’s
forming himself in them ; and that their publica­
tions have proved.
JOANNA SOUTHCOTT.
OcL%m , 1813.
5
Digitized by Google
6
The second Advertisement, in the Morning Herald,
November 9th, 1813.
A W A R N IN G TO THE BISHOPS, FROM JO A NN A
SOUTHCOTT, B Y THE COMMAND OF T H E
LORD.
AS the Public say that the Bishops will not give
themselves the trouble of searching whether my
Visitation is of God, or not, the following answer
was given to me by the Spiritj— ^
“ If they go on according to the judgment of
men, and thou art confined one year in this house,
as a prisoner, through their neglect, then in one
year I will cut them all off, like the three signs I
have mentioned. Know I told thee I should begin
at the sanctuary.”
The first sign was of the Bishop's death, in 1796,'
which was put in the hand of the Rev. Mr. Ponjd*
roy. The second sign was in 1801 *
, as the Bishop
of Exeter refused to hear of the Visitation, I waa
ordered to come to London, and St. Peter’s bell
should toll for the Bishop when I returned to Ex­
eter again, and this was fulfilled in '1803. The
other was the threatening to the Bishop of London,
in 1804, as he refused to hear of the Visitation,
when applied to. And, as the Lord fulfilled his
word with them, I am answered, that he will fulfil
his word with all, if they do not exert the power
they are invested with. And this I am strictly
commanded to put in the newspaper.*,
And now I am called back to my former wri­
tings, where it is said, “ One month you’ll see
your destiny, what will befall your land $” so this
month fixes the destiny for the ensuing year, either
for blessings or judgments. If the Bishops keep
silence till this month of November is over, then
hey may keep silence until next November, 1814-
• I
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
For I am answered, that noW the time is come of
the fulfilment of a letter I sent to the R ef. M r.
Pomeroy, in 1796 :—“ Awake, my Shepherds,
saith the Lord, lest I kindle a fire in mine anger,
and a wrath in my fnry, that shall hum to the ne­
thermost hell. But if ye awake, O Zion, and put
on your beautiful garments, O Jerusalem, then
shall your light break forth as the morning, and
your righteousness appear as the noon-day sun; and
God, even our God, will give us his blessing.
These are the promises, these are the threaten-
ings, which I was ordered to send to him, in 1796;
and now I am answered, that the Lord will fulfil
them one way or other, according as the command
is obeyed or disobeyed. The Bishops are now called
upon to judge between the Shepherd and the Sheep,
from a book lately published, entitled, “ The Se­
cond Book of Wonders.”
JOANNA SOUTHCOTT.
The Book alluded to is sold at M- Jones’s^
No. 5, Newgate-Street.
Inconsequence of-theTast-mentionedadvertise­
ment, many persons applied to the bookseller for
the book therein pointed out j but when the " Se­
cond Book of Wonders” was offered to them as
such; they all refused taking it, saying that they
wanted the Warning to the Bishopsj and nothing
that was- said could induce any one to take the
book. In consequence of such a misconception,
more copies of the “ Second Book of Wonders”
were sent to the bookseller, with the following
words written on the title page of each :—
This is the “ S e c o n d B o o k o f W o n d e r s ,”
mentioned in the newspaper, that the Bishops are
applied to for to judge between the Rev. Mr.
Pomeroy and me, firom the letters 'which passed
between us in 1804. See 31st page.
The first wonder is, that Joanna Southcott bath
7 .
Digitized by Google
lived more than sixty years in the world, yet un­
known to the world, that she still stands a wonder
to mankind. Secondly, the world is a wonder to
her, that she lives in a world unknown to her, and
she to them. So here stand the two wonders, the
M ai) and W oman wondering at each other; but
w h e n ce more wonders appear, then all their won­
ders may cease.
J o a n n a So u t h c o t t .
This requires some explanation, why I say I
have lived more than sixty years in tire world, and
yet unknown to the world: it is because they know
not in what manner the Lord drew my heart to
him in my early age; neither do they know what
strength of faith the Lord gave me to rely upon
the promises of God, which stand on record—that
the gates of hell should never prevail against a true
believer in Christ: for he that believeth in the S o n ,
rtiust believe in the F a t h e r also. This is un­
known to the world—the strength of faith that the
Lord hath given me, to believe and rely upon all
his promises, before I was visited by the Spirit of
Prophecies; and how the Lord made himself
known to me by small things, before he called me
to great ones. Therefore they know not the man­
ner of my Visitation: for this is unknown to the
world—they know not the Master, nor the Servant:
they know not the Father nor the Child: neither
do they know the days of their own Visitation.
So here I stand unknown to man,
And to the world unknown;
And though believers I have some,
The world from them is gone.
As they are gone from the wisdom of the world,
through faith, which the worldly wisdom cannot
join in ; because the world by wisdom knoweth
not G od: and if believers are joined with unbe­
lievers, they think they are mad.
6
Digitized
ed by Google
Now I shall come to the other observation, why
I live in the world unknown to m e: it is because I
have been deceived by professors of religion of all
sects and parties. 1 have found men professing to
be my friend one day, and my enemy the next; I
have found men professing a true belief in the
Scriptures, but when put to the trial of their faith,
I find they are weighed in the balance and found
wanting. I have heard many from their pulpit
preach the truth of the Gospel; but when I have
brought them to their own doctrine, they have de­
nied in conversation the very things they had been
preaching. And this I have experienced among
all sects and parties of religion; so that I may say,
I live in a world that I know not what religion they
are o f; for when put to the trial, they deny the
very things they profess to believe. This is one -
reason why I say I live in the world unknow to me ;
another reason is the different principles I have met
with in mankind, from the sincere friendship 1 have
met with in some, and the ingratitude and cruelty I
have met with in others: and from my general ob­
servations of the world, from the different conduct
I see in men, it makes me at a loss to account for
i t ; as I have seen'as much difference in mankind,
as there is between the angels of glory and the
angels that fell. Thus the world has been a
wonder to me all the days of my life ; but now it
is revealed to me why this difference is in men,
which causes all my wonder to cease.
9
The following Letters, sent to the ministers at
Exeter, I was ordered to take out of my writings,
opened at the Neckinger, and lay them before the
public.
Digitized by Google
lo
A Letter, which I sent to the Rev. Mr. Pomeroyt
July n th , 1796.
Rev. Sir,
I will now give you the meaning of the
mystery I told you of, in as small a compass as poa->
sible. You may think me simple in my manner;
but the wisdom of God is foolishness with m an;
and the wisdom of man is foolishness with G od:
for as high as the heavens are from the earth, so
are God’s ways above man’s ways, and his thoughts
above man's thoughts; therefore we must become
fools for Christ, if we will win souls to Christ, as
counted fools, but making many wise.„m our fool­
ishness, is the wisdom of God made manifest.
You may remember that I told you, my Fatlter's
House was a Type of the Nation ; and in what man­
ner I was sent to it. As I told you the particulars
I need not enlarge, but come to the purpose. The
Lord will cut short his work in righteousness, and
make bare his arm on his holy mountain; he will
come as a refining fire, and as a.fuller’s soap; he
will go on conquering and to conquer, till he hath
>ut all his enemies under his feet : every proud
leart must become humble, and every lofty look
become ]pw; for the lion and the lamb must lie
down together: and till this is accomplished there
will be wars and fighting among us. We are
threatened with the sword, plague, and famine,
that those who have shewed no mercy may have
judgments without mercy: mercy is God’s darling
attribute, but judgments are his strange w ork: and
strange are all his works here; for his wisdom is
hid in the great deep, and his paths are past man’s
finding out. Be not faithless, but believe; for the
heavens are gathering blackness j the thunder bolt
of God’s word is threatened u s: the harvest of the
Digitized by Google
Lord is now approaching, and it is time for the
ploughers to overtake the reapers, lest we say with
the Jew s of old, “ The day is come, the harvest
is ended, and we aTe not saved.” The Spirit and
the Bride say, come: let he that heareth say, come;
for the end of all things is at hand. Let not men
be mockers, lest their bands be made strong: for I
have heard from the Lord God a consumption, even
a determination upon the whole earth.
Think not this Letter my inditing ; for it is not.
The Lord grant that you may be a M o s e s in the
gap, to make up the breach for the Children of Is­
rael. I trust you will be a wrestling Jacob, till
you become a prevailing Israel, to turn away the
fierce anger of the Lord; for it is already kindled;
for the cries of the poor have reached to heaven,
and vengeance is threatened for the cruelty of man.
All souls are mine, saith the Lord; and all sonls
alike will fear, till judgment is turned into victory.
We are threatened with a fatal harvest: may the
Lord in his mercies prevent these judgments 1 There
is no time to be idle: may w e not perish through
unbelief! I have stronger grounds to build on for
my faith, aiid fear, than ever I told any m an: the
Lord is a God hearing and answering prayer. The
Lord grant you may awake, as one out of sleep.
*
* Awake, my Shepherd, saith the Lord, lest I
kindle a fire in my anger, and a wrath in my fury
that shall bum to the nethermost hell.” But if ye
awake, O Zion, and put on your beautiful garments,
O Jerusalem; then shall your light break forth as
the morning, and your righteousness appear as the
noon-day sun; and God, even our God, will giro
us his blessing.
These are the promises; these are the threaten
ings. I am clear of the blood of all men. There'
is nothing covered, but shall be made’ manifest ;
there is nothing hid, but will be made known : for
what hath been done in the secret chamber W ill be
11
Digitized by ^ o o Q l e
is
revealed on the house top. The night is far spent,
the day is at hand, it is time to awake and be do­
ing.—
I remain, with the greatest respect,
Your bumble servant,
J o a n n a So u t h c o t t .
When' the above letter was copied off, the fol­
lowing answer was given me, which 1 added as a
postscript to the letter:—
“ If by the wise men I am mocked now.
Like Herod’s fury I’ll fulfil my vow;
And trembling now expect the coming stroke,
Like Herod’s fury, when the wise men mock’d.”
Rev. Sir, if you wish to know on what founda­
tion I build, to write in this manner, I will conceal
nothing from you. I have written as I was com­
manded, and trust to your goodness to weigh it
deeply; for the Lord w ill'be inquired of by the
House of Israel.
The following Letter was sent to the Rev. M r
Pomeroy, February, 1797.
R e v . S i r ,
You said you could not believe that it was con­
sistent with the wisdom of an all-wise God to
foretel me the death of the Reverend Lord Bishop.
In this you make good the Bible—“ the wisdom of
God is foolishness with m e n b u t I must come
to the purpose. Will you trust a person whose
honour or fidelity you had never tried ? Would
you entrust any one with a thousand pounds, that
you had never tried with as many pence ? He
that is faithless in that which is least, will never be
Digitized by L r O O Q l e
faithful in that which is m ost; but he that is faith­
ful in that which is least, will be faithful in that
which is most. Would it be consistent with the
wisdom of God,'to tell us wondrous things that
were to come, when there was no appearance of
them, and think we should give credit to .them,
before we had experienced the truth of his words
in lesser matters ? No : therefore it might well be
said that the wisdom of man is foolishness with
God. True it is : for the wisdom of man could
never prevail upon me, in ninety-two, to leave my
work, and go to my sister, and write that what
was revealed to me was coming upon the whole
earth, had I not experienced before the truth of
the Spirit in little things,—and greater things, that
would take me many sheets or paper to repeat,
the undeniable truths I was foretold by the Spirit,
before ever I was told of prophecies, or a Word of
the kind reached my ears. One trifling thing I
shall mention : I was told what was in the hearts
and thoughts of men concerning me, and told the
man I should go to, and he would own the truth.
I di.d, and the man, to his astonishment, owned it
was true. He is now in the city. But he said it
was the devil told me of i t ; and the same he saith
by my prophecies; yet he owns he believes me to
be a good woman. How inconsistent with reason
to believe a good woman can always be conversing
with the devil and perfect in obedience to all his
commands ! Well might it be said in my writings
— “ I say, the heavens may sure smile here, to see
the heads of men !” Do you believe that Abra­
ham’s faith would lead him to believe he should
have a son in his old age, and after that to offer
him up by the command of the Lord, if he had;
never experienced the truth of the Lord in many
things which were never penned ? Would the
Jews believe that they should be preserved in the
flames, if they never proved the truth of the Lord
Digitized by U o o Q l e
before, in things which were never left on record ?
We know' not in what manner the Lord strength­
ens the faith of believers : faith is the gift of God,
and not of man.
Now I will come to another of your observations.
You marvelled how I heard these things; and why
it was spoken in verse; as you said, the prophets
of old prophesied in plain words. I will answer.
The reason assigned to me is, that the Bible was
made by the Spirit of Inspiration, and it will be
explained, as to the mysteries it contains, by the
Spirit of Revelation, therefore is the last book
called by that name. In the first chapter you men­
tion is tne truth now fulfilling, and deeply explain­
ed in'my writings. You will find the time draws
near of the fulfilment; but as you fear to trust
me, I cannot trust you with the meaning of all the
mysteries explained. In theRevelations, it is said,
“ I am Alpha and Omega, the first and he last
then now consider what God made man at first:
perfect in holiness, perfect in happiness; and, to do
it at the last, he his about to accomplish it.—
Now, Reverend Sir, I shall come to some more
of your own words. You said that the Gospel of
Christ was plain to be understood; can you ex­
plain all the meaning of our dear Redeemer’s
words ? He said he came not to destroy the Law
of God or the Prophets, but to fulfil them: * this
feneration shall not pass away till all is fulfilled.”
t is 1797 years agone, and all is not yet fulfill­
ed. He said—'**None is before nor after another;
none is greater or less than another: but he that
is greatest amongst you let him be your minister;
he that is chief amongst you shall be the servant to
you a ll”—
I remain, with the greatest respect,
Your humble servant,
JOANNA SOUTHCOTT.
14
Digitized
ized by Google
15
The following Letter was sent to the Rev, M r,
Pomeroy, February 20th, 1797.
R e v . S i r ,
With what words shall I begin to convince you
that I am still ordered to trouble you with Letters,
till yoo are convinced it is the Lord’s doing, and
marvellous in your eyes; but you will be ready to
answer me, *
* unless I see, how can 1 believe ?” And
you have offered to search out the truth and judge
for yourself. I grant it—but I will answer you,
as our Saviour did the leprous men, “ were there
not ten cleansed, but where are the nine?” are
there not six warned, but where are the five ?
I have sent letters to four ministers, but recei­
ved no answer' from either. This confirms my
writings, as well as the truth of all nations; as
you may remember, the first time 1 spoke to you
of the writings, in ninety-two, I told you that one
of the visions was the fruit that was fallen from
the trees; and I thought the Lord said to me,
u take it up, and open the shells; but thou shalt
“ not taste of the fruit thereof: it is fallen; it ia
not good.” I opened it, and lit was like French
nuts; but they were dead and withered, and a.
black veil round them. I was ordered to look u p ;
and I saw berries like potatoe berries. I was an­
swered, “ when that is ripe it will be good.” I
awaked with my dream, and it was answered—
“ couldest thou look into the hearts of men, as
I do; thou wouldest see them as dead and wither­
ed as the fruit; for whiph reason the Lord will
**visit the earth in his fierce anger.” Now I have
been ordered to try the fruit; and I find it like my
dream; for the ministers I have sent to plainly
shew, if I am going to the. pit of destruction, by
saying the Lora saitb, when he hath not spoken,
Digitized by t ^ o o Q l e
a sin of the blackest dye, they will not give their-
selves the trouble to convince me of my error: but
if I had forged letters in the king’s name, they
would have been ready to search out the truth, by
his command; ready to obey, and punish me for
so doing. Then are not our Saviour’s words veri­
fied ?— Strict to observe the ordinance of men,
“ and forget all the inward ordinance of G od;
*
* doing despite to the Spirit of God; and saying we
want not the knowledge of the Most High.” But
you will be ready to say, my pen is harsh in condemn­
ing. Sir, I grant it; this is the measure theyjudge me
by ; and so I shall measure it back again.—
-They
have judged' me unheard; and I shall measure to
them the same. This is the word of God. But
I will ask pardon of the Rev. Chancellor Nut-
combe ; as I have not heard that he hath been in
, town since I sent the letter; and having a careless
servant, that acted strangely about the letter, I
know not whether ever she sent it. You said
that all the ministers were branches in Christ; to
your words I am now answered—*
*ask him who
did come to me that I refused to hear; then how
can they be branches in me ? Now see the
mystery clear.” Can you remember the words I
read to you in Mrs. Taylor’s house ?
16
“ Awake, my Shepherd, saith the Lord;
Once more I say awake;
Or all shall see the flaming sword,
That I shall surely shake.
For, like Jerusalem of old,
Your shepherds are asleep ;
The wolf may come and steal the fold,
For they no watch do keep."
And is it not so now ? Then what have we to
fear? If there be any credit to be put in the
newspapers, the truth of Italy is fulfilled already, *
Digitized by Google
perfectly as it is sealed up In your hand: b u t!
do not credit the report, and think it like putting
the Reverend Lord Bishop Buller’s death in the
paper before he was dead, and the next week
contradicted; but it was true before the year
ended. Just so do I believe it will be by Italy;
but do not think the words ate so soon fulfilled.
But nothing will awaken the Ministers, till you
are awakened to awaken them. I may as well
write to stocks and stones as to them. I ask your
pardon. A clear conscience cannot be condemn­
ed. It grieves me to the heart, to see and hear
how eager every serious mind and humble heart is
to have the writings proved, and the carelessness
and coldness of the ministers. I have troubled
you with a long epistle; but this I am ordered to
do, that you may weigh every thing deeply; and
when you are convinced, awaken your brethren.
I am sorry to be troublesome, but you will find
there is cause enough.
1 remain, with the greatest respect,
Your humble servant,
J o A N X A SOU THCOTT.
17
A Letter sent to the Rev. M r. Pomeroy, December
17th, 1797.
Rev. Sir,
That I might not be too troublesome to you,
I have deferred sending to see you till the end of
the year, that you might be a clear judge of the
writings I sent to you in the Spring Sealed up, as
you doubted, like Thomas; unless you saw you
would not believe that all my writings were from
‘the Lord; then now 1 may say unto you, as our
dear Redeemer did unto him, see and believe.
In your own hands I put two seals, not to be
broken but in the presence of ministers; the one
B
Digitized by Google
in June 8, 1796; the other in 1797. Thus hath
the Lord dealt with you, as he did with Thomas,
that in seeing you might see, and in heariug you
might understand. When you see the seals broken,
and the truth before your eyes, will you say, my
Lord and my God has thus wisely done, to re­
move your doubts ? or will you say it is the wis- •
dom of a simple woman; to foreknow what will
come upon the earth ? If the' former, it is now
high time to know what the Lord hath said, and
what he hath spoken concerning us, that ye may
not do despite to the Spirit of God, and say we
Want not the knowledge jof the Most H igh; it you
judge the latter, bring forth your arguments, shew
your strong reasons, why you believe the Lord
■will suffer a woman’s words to come true, to say
the Lord saith, when he hath not spoken, and
seal up in his name what are his decrees concerning
every nation upon earth. If I do these things of
myself, my sins must be of the blackest dye : and
will no minister search out the truth, to know
whether it be right or wrong? Does not this
plainly prove that professors of religion are like
the Laodiceans, neither hot nor cold, but luke­
warm ? Can you blame the sheep for being dead
hearers, while the shepherds are like the deaf
adder, that stoppeth his ear and will not hearken
to the voice of the charmer, charm he ever so
wisely ? I have written to six ministers; four
have remained silent. This verifies the truth of
my writings, as well as the truth of the nation ;
as I was foretold before ever I sent you a letter,
that they must be convinced by you; now I find
it true, and marvellous in my eyes, how ministers
can read the letters I have sent them and never
concern theirselves whether it be true or not, but
pass judgment on what they know not. Is it not
written, the Lord will be clear when he judgetb ?
Then can man be clear, to judge a thing he is ig-
18
Digitized by Google
' 19
hoi-ant'of? This neither the Law nor Gospel will
allow; yet so I find man. Therefore I must ap­
peal to you; for unto you it is given to know tne
mysteries; but from them it is hid.
I remain, with the greatest respect,
Your humble servant,
J o a n n a So u t m c o t t .
A better sent to the Reverend Archdeacon,Moore,
June 19th, 1798.
Rev. Sir,
You may be surprised to receive a fetter
from one that you have treated with scorn and
contem pt; and were I to act in a spirit of my
own, I should never trouble you more, but leave
it to other ministers to search Out the truth; as 1
am ordered to go to Bristol, and publish the
things that are hastening on. As you and the Rev.*
Chancellor Nutcombe have refused to hear me, to
know what foundation I have for my faith and
fears, I am now commanded to go to Bristol,
and there make public the letters I have sent to
you both. If you find your conduct" blamed
abroad, as it is at home, do not blame me, but
blame yourselves; for I am told, in my writings,
that my being disobedient to the commands of
the Lord will be more fatal than it was to Eve.
If Paradise was lost by the woman’s disobedience,
it must be regained by her perfect obedience.
It is explained to me in the following manner:
“ Man with his Maker may contend,
As Adam did at first:
I gave the woman unto him,
And thereby came the curse ;
Then sure my wisdom it must fail,
If I can't find a way
To change the wind, and turn the gale,
.And like the serpent lay
B 2
Digitized by Google
' ao
Close to her breist, in m to trusty
And so to free the score,
Aod make the serpent lick the dust,
And belt's 4nfu*ioti roar.*
Say no more, that the woman beguiled you,
and ye did' eat, and cast the'blame on your Ma­
ker, for the woman, when ye were ready to copy
after her in disobedience; but now she is brought
to true obedience, ye wit! not copy one step atter
her. If you judge me a lost sheep, judge how
many sheep are g o in g astray after me, as the
truth of my writings hath drawn many believers;
and as every year fulfils my writings, so every
day believers increase. • The reason why I have
troubled.you with thip letter is to let you know,
if you And yourselves blamed by other ministers
abroad, that you had not searched out the truth,
Mame yourselves apd not m e; for I assure you, I
do not go in one step of my own. You may
marvel, as Adam <j*d, why the Lord had given
him the woman, that caused his fall, and cast the
blame op his Maker, for copying after her: and
will you pojw caft the blame on your Maker, for
chusiug you to judge for yourself, and you refuse
to obey t Then bring forth your arguments, and
shew your strong reasons, why you would not
obey, if you judge it from the Lord; and why
>gu did not try to put a stop to it, if you judged
it the disorder of a confused hrain :
tainted btood tvitt always spread,
vAnd twilled brains the same; »
If wjong disorder's in the head, /
You ought to stop the frame.
J udge for yourself, that ye be not judged o f
the Lord: would you not blame a shepherd, to
let his sheep be lost for want of his care ? But
now your care is too late for me ; by the time this
reaches your baud, I hope to be in Bristol: and
■whatever is the effect of my going, as you never
Digitized by Google
tried to prevent it, you haven© one"to Mwic but
yourself. Yet my soul feels fo ry o u , knowing
the threatening* pronounced against die careless*
new of the ministers: for I shall conclude my
letter with the words I put in the hands of the
Rev. M r. Pomeroy, In 179®. "
u Is this the way my sheep are watch’d,
Left to the shepherd's care
The wolf to drag tbfcta in the pit, }
And left to perish there t
Then now my anger who could blame.
If it should heat and burn,
And, like, the Gospel, say to all—
To England I shall turn V
*
The Gospel it was taken from was the chapter
read in the Fast— “ Think not these Galileans
sinners above all, because they have done these
things.*’ I am sorry to trouble' you .with this
'letter; but must leave it to your serious- reflect
tkm, now cau you blame yourself, or me?
I remain, with due respect,
Your humble servant,
J o A X N A SOUTHCOTT.
21
A Letter sent to the Rev Chanceitor N utcombe,
in 1799.
Rev. Sir, ; .
You may be surprised to receive a letter
from one you have judged too much beneath your
notice to answer the former I sent you; but as 1
see mankind so bold with my character, as to say
I am out of my senses, I must be bold to answer
for myself, and intreat the favour of your proving
-your words-; not as a blind man judges of colours
that they never see, or like the mad, confused
world, that is throwing the law and gospel out
of doors; and as they are filled, with their- own
opinions, without knowing what they judge,
Digitized by Google
at
which neither the law of God- or man will atk^9
*<
to convince mankind of this error, the Lord sat&
I. will,go down and see whether these things an)
as they are come up before me. The Lord did
not want wisdom to know, hut it was spoken a s.
a pattern for man to walk by.
Therefore was it said of Mr. Pomeroy, two
years before ever I sent him a letter, that the law)
of the Lord were written on his heart; ai)d I will
E
rove, in the presence of all the learned, that he
ath acted thus far as though they were; which is
an honour to the church; for were it not for his
conduct, all other religions would cry shame on
the church, as Sir Egerton Lee did, who asked
me if I had been writing in this manner for seven
years, and not written to the ministers? I said I
had ; but they judged me out of my senses, and
refused to answer my letters. He said, that was
harsh judging, and unchristian like: and had he
the pleasure of knowing the gentlemen, he would
wait on them himself; as he judged it a duty for
ministers to prove by what Spirit I wrote; and
stop my hand, if'not of God. Here his obser­
vation is ju s t; and of the same opinions are all
other religions, and condemn the church for not
doing justice, to search out the tru th ; as many
judge it of God, and marvel how it came to pass,
if not so; others judge it from the devil, and that
chance makes it true ; others judge it from my*-
self, that have given up my mind more to learning
than ever any minister upon earth did; but Sir.
Egerton did not judge so weakly; he knew it
was too wonderful for a woman's head.
Now, Sir, if you and the Rev. Archdeacon
Moore will prove your Bibles true, and my wri­
tings not of God, in the presence of two or three
ministers, I will ask both your pardons in the
public papers, as all is now made public, for
troubling your honours with such letters*;. but if
Digitized by L j O O Q i e
ybu cannot, you must say, “ the Lord hathychas-
tised us, and we are chastised like bullocks unac­
customed to the yoke; we cannot answer one
word of a thousand,”—neither do I believe you
can, out of ten thousand.
Now, Sir, if you condemn my writings, when
you have seen them, I will give up all to your su-
ferior judgm ent; and wherein you will blame me,
will blame myself; but if you persevere to judge
a cause unheard, and murder my character, which
you do not know, by saying I am out of my
senses, marvel not if I persevere to clear my inno­
cence.—■
For bold I see mankind with me,
And I'll be bold with man;
You say, my senses they are lost,
Then prove that they are gpne.
Will 3^1 say as Felix did to Paul, too much-,
learning made thee mad ? Then, like Paul, 1 an­
sw er-m ost noble Sir, I am not mad—and now. I
tefi'you what will in the end be the language of
your hearts:
“ We judg'd her senses to be gone; T
“ But surely ours were lost:
u Twas but the sand wefebuilt upon ;
u *Tis she the rock can boast."
On what rock do you judge I build, to have
my enemies to be my judges? I must intreat an
answer to this letter.
From your humble servant,
J o a n n a So u t h c o t t .
23
A Letter sent to the Rev. M r. Pomeroy, in De­
cember, 1799.
Jtey. Sir,
As I have received no answer from you, I
suppose you mean to run the hazard of another year
f t
Digitized by Google
if so, I mean to go abroad, which I. was ordered
not to do, till I received your answer; and your
silence is an answer, that you mean to see further
events; which I cannot blame in you, Sir. As I
see and hear the ministers are so careless, that they
do not concern theirsclves to know whether the
Lord hath spoken or not; but another year will
convince them, if the Lord hath spoken by me.
‘ I am now ordered to send to you a copy of the
letter I put last spring in the hand of the Reverend.
Archdeacon Moore. As half is not yet .fulfilled,
you will see more of it in the 1800. I have sealed:
it up with three seals, as I sent it to him ; but it
is copied out as you can read it: but I must beg
the favour of you, Sir, not to break the jeals till
the end of the year, unless you judge it prudent
to shew it to the Archdeacon Moore.
I have sent in some .of my letters what is hasten­
ing pn the ensuing year, as unbelief is so likely to
abound. I must beg the favour of you to take
care of all my letters; for you will find it the
Lord’s doing, however marvellous it may appear
in your eyes. If I stay two years, as Mr. Taylor
hath engaged for me by that.time, J believe the
writings I have put in your hands will truly con­
vince you it is of God, and no enthusiasm of a
disordered brain : for now mockers are begun, and
they will bring down the judgments that-are
threatened. So let no man complain of the times.; •
but let all men consider that they have been mock­
ers: and our bands are made strong; the judg­
ments of the Lord will be carried into victory over
us.
I have sent you these letters, as I was ordered to
send to you the copy of the other; and if you
judge prudent to wait longer, you must have the
truth in your own hand, to see it plain if it be of
God,
I jiope I shall not be called to trouble ygu any
24
Digitized by Google
more till one year 1$ pasts aftd if not till the espi^
ration of one year, I know strange events mutt
take place, before men .will believe the strange
things that are said ill my writings, so very differ-*
eqt from all men’s opinions upon earth ; as they
judge that the second coming of Christ is the day
of judgm ent; but it is said to me, it will be a
thousand years and more before that rime; that
Christ will oome in the power of his spirit to dwell
in the hearts of his believers; and aU unbelievers
will fall with their master i and: these days are*
drawing nigh at hand; but, till ye see signs and
wonders, ye will not believe. I must conclude
with saying I am sorry to see the unbelief of man­
kind : we know not what a day may bring forth.
1 remain, with the greatest respect,
Your humble servant,
J o a n n a So u t h c o t t ,
*5
A Letter sent to the Rev. M r. Pomeroy, December
x 3d, 1799.
; . . - * . .
Rev. Sir,
' ji Some of your questions I must beg leave to
answer* You asked, if { judged myself so great
a favourite of heaven, a$ to think the Lord had
sent a curse over the land, because men bad des­
pised my writings. To this I answer, not for my
sake, but for hfs great name's sake, tp prove the
truth of what he had spoken and threatened. If
things are of God, he is as good as his word. No
man hath despised me, but my writings it is that
they have despised ; and if they came from God,
it is to his Spirit they have done this despite.
Rut you say, Sir, the working of miracles fol­
lows prophecies. Here are our Saviour’s wt>rd$
verified —:“ Faithless generation, unless ye see
signs and wonders, ye will not believe !” Then
come to the Marriage Supper of the Lamb, and
Digitized by Google
ye shall see greater miracles than was wrought in
Cana, at the marriage there: for the water shall
be made more than wine.
You say, Sir, you fear I shalt not resign to the
judgment of men, if they condemn my writings:
I should say they were out in their judgment, as
my writings came true. To this I answer, if men
meet according as I am directed to have them,
and then condemn my writings, that they are not
of G od; they cannot be true; for I am promised
that the Spirit of the Lord shall be poured out
upon them, and that the candle of the Lord shall
sbine bright amongst them : then shall the light
break forth as the morning, and the truth he as
clear as the noon-day sun ; for then will the Lord
shame all that have shamed me, and confound all
that confounded me. -
God is not slack concerning his promise; so I
will rely on his word, and resign to the wisdom of
men, when they meet, .as the Lord has appointed.
To the judgment of twelve I wilr give up the
whole; but not to eleven ; for I as much believe
my writings are of God, as I do the Bible; and
eleven men cannot convince me to think other­
wise ; but twelve men will, if they meet together,
and say they do not think it is of G od; and th at
I am certain will never be the case. I am ready
to meet any ministers, and tell them what strong
reasons I have for this unshaken faith.
You say, the Lord never acts inconsistently
with himself. Sir, 1 grant i t : and in all my wri­
tings he hath spoken more consistently with his
wisdom, goodness, mercy, and truth, than ever
I heard any man judge him in my life. And now
I am ready to stand the trial, and prove the truth
of what I say, or wait the event of another year;
but that I am ordered to give up to your superior
judgment.
I must conclude with saying I believe my wri-
96’
Digitized by Google
m
tings came from the Lord ; and he hath fixed for
me a Judge and J u ry ; and so will I submit to be
tried; and till I am condemned by them, I shall
judge myself an innocent woman, greatly wound­
ed in the house of my friends. I am sorry to
trouble you with so long an epistle; but I am or­
dered to answer all your objections, and pould
not do it in a smaller compass.
I am, with the greatest respect,
Your humble servant,
J o a n n a So u t h c o t *.
Another Letter sent to the Rev. M r. Pomeroy,
M arch S3d, 1800.
Rev. Sir,
You may be surprised to receive a letter
from me, after saying in my last letter,' that I
meant to go abroad for two years, if my writings
were not now proved. But what man appoints
.God disappoints ; I find I cannot go one step, in
myself, to do aoy thing; I must stay to see the
event of what I have written. And what, shall I
see nothing but sorrow surround me on every
side r Already I hear the cries of the poor, com­
plaining they are starving to death, for want of
food. It is almost incredible to believe they can
keep life in the manner they now live: every sta­
tion of men are full of complaints, unless it be
the rich and great: and when will these sorrows
have an end? I am told, never; till ministers do
awake, as men out of sleep, to search out the
cause; which I am told, in my writings, is men’s
unbelief of what I have written; and ministers’
neglect of not trying the Spirit, whether it came
from God, or not. If men will not try the Spirit,
God will prove the Spirit, by sending a heavier
purse on the land, than is already sent* Severe
Digitized by Google
at* tbe threatenings pronounced to me against
mankind, as they so readily copied after the wo*
, man, in eating the forbidden fruit, when the Lord
commanded that man should n o t; and now that
the Lord hath commanded them to try the Spirit,
whether it be of God, or not, they refuse to
obey,; and are not God’s threatenings just.?
and will not his punishments be severe, if man
wjjl run contrary to all his commandments ? I
may say unto you, as Naaman’s servant said unto
him— “ I f the Lord bad commanded him to do
some great thing, would he not have done it ?”
And would you, Sir, not do a greater thing thau
is required of you, if you could, stay the judg­
ments that are already begun, sooner than run
the hazard of having them come heavier over the
land ? Which I was told, on the Fast day,- no
prayers should stay the judgments of the Lord
from coming heavier upon us, till the writings
were proved. But I know you will be ready to
say, you cannot prove them by yourself; -and you
may argue, hath the Lord chosen ministers that
will not obey his call ? I answer—“ tHe Lord hath
called, and no man answered; he hath stretched
out his hand to a disobedient and gainsaying
people : Israel do not know, my people do not
consider, who it is that calleth, saith the Lord.”
- But you said, Sir, I remember, in your pulpit,
that there were fifty righteous men in the Land;
now you are at liberty to gait) ten of them, or
five; and I will gain the other; and let the truth
he tried. If you cannot, then say no more that
there are fifty righteous men, if you cannot gain
five to come forward in so deep and weighty au
affair. For I now say unto you, as I did in a
letter a few weeks ago to the Rev. Mi*. Tucker, I
now. speak boldly, and affirm, if I do- not write
by the Spirit of G o d ; no man ever did, since
earth’s foundation was placed: the same Spirit
Digitized by Google
r
*&
that inspired them to write the Bible, in the be-
finning, hath inspired me tofhlffl it, in these last
ays, beyottd’the reach of human learning: I am
lost in wonder,- how it is possible that ministers
are silent to such letters as I have sent them. Iii
my letter to the Rev- Mr. Tucker I called them
foots and Slow of heart, :to judge that a woman
had done all this of hei-stlf, and they not put her
to silence-; yet no man asketh me by what autho­
rity I do these things; if they did, l am ready
to answer.—
I must entreat your answer by the bearer, a
woman whose honour you may depend upon, and
will faithfully speak the truth o f what you should
think proper to send, whether you judge it pru­
dent to run the hazard of another harvest; if so,
great I fear will be the murmuring in our laud.
I am, with the greatest respect,
Your humble servant,
J o a n n a S o u t h c o t t .
The answer that Mr. Pomeroy returned to this
letter was, that my senses were deranged, and
that I wrote blasphemy.
To M r. Pomeroy's answer I sent the following
Letter, March 25th, 18Q0.
Rev, Sir,
I am sorry to be so troublesome to your
honour, as I own 1 have been; and were there a
possibility of my believing ’there is a God that
pan deal with his creatures as you think, 1 may
be deceived in whom I have believed, and judge
jny w ritings; as Sir Egerton Lee did, from the
powers of darkness. But as you say men have
tefiised to be my judges in so deep and weighty
affair, I must beg the liberty to-judge for my­
self.
You say, Sir, that my senses are deranged, or
I should never keep on writing so. To tbis I an-
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
SO
fctor—were Noah’s senses deranged in warning
the antediluvian world of, their destruction, so
many years before it came, and build the ark
while they judged him an old fool for doing it ? I
may write of the long contentions of all the pro­
phets ; and how they were judged, and what be­
tel their judges; but all tlife you know already.
I must now come to the purpose; you told
Mrs. Boucher that I wrote blasphemy. I must
entreat the favour, Sir, that you will be so kind
as to tell her wherein I wrote blasphemy ; and I
am ready to answer for myself.—Yet I own it is
generous and kind in you to say it, if you thought
so; but my soul shudders at the thought, and
much more of the a ct I must beg to answer for
myself, that there is not one, 1 believe, upon
earth, who hath higher thoughts of the Holy
Trinity than 1 have; and before I can judge them
as low as 1 find mankind do, I must firmly be­
lieve the Bible is as strong enthusiasm as men
judge my writings. Do mankind judge the Lord
another such as theirselves ? If so, they may
judge me a good, mistaken woman, that have
spent my time in fasting and prayers, to know the
will of the Lord and obey it—and hath the Lord
-heard my prayers in silence, as the ministers re-
' ceive my letters, and, when they broke silence,
returned their answers in anger? But can I judge
my Maker so ? God forbid : the Lord judge be­
tween man and me.
I require no favour of any man, but to tell me”
faithfully, as ministers of the Lord, what Spirit
they thought hath so powerfully visited me, for
eight years past. This petition they refuse : but
their words, like swords, go through my soul;
and I may say, with the prophet of old, “ My
heart is broken, and all my bones shake.” I own,
the ill treatment I have met with from men, is
enough to make me deranged in my senses: and
did 1 think I should receive such from*the Lord,.
Digitized by Google
I should say with Job, “ Oh that my days were
to an end !” and with the prophet of old, “ Cur­
sed be the day wherein I was born 1” But I still
hope to meet with a wiser judge than m an; one
that is clear when he judgeth, that he may be
just if he condemneth.
I return you thanks, Sir, for all the trouble
you have taken on1my account. I do not con­
demn the innocent with the guilty. I must own,
you have acted, in every principle, as a minister
who wishes to give just and true judgment, to
prove the spirit, and try it. You have owned
you were ready; and had other ministers done
the same, my sorrows would have been at an end;
but now I fear they will continue till I go down
to the cold chambers of the grave, which my
soul longs for, in hopes of meeting a better and
a juster judge than man.
I am not ignorant of what 1 am doing; I do
not marvel at the times, that our land is so bowed
down with sorrow and distress on every side, seeing
the unfeeling hearts of the ipinisters, to know
there must be some cause, unknown to them, that
hath laid so heavy a burthen on the land, and upon
my mind and heart; and they will not give their-
selves one hour’s time nor trouble, to search out
the cause and free the load that lies so heavy on
my spirits. I may say with David, “ Lord what
is man, that thou regardest him ! Could 1 be clear
that my writings were not from God, I would
never take my pen in hand to write more on that
subject; and what I have already written I would
commit to the flames. But my soul trembleth at
the severe threatenings against myself, if I am
disobedient to the heavenly calling: I must sin
against light and knowledge.
I must conclude with saying, that I do not wish
you, Sir, to trouble ministers any more on my ac­
count ; I find I must bear my own burthen, till
31
L Digitized by Google
&
tke lo rd is pleased to take the cause in his 6wfl
hand, and undertake for me.
I Must beg the favour of you, Sir, to send by
the bearer, wherein you judge I have written bias-*
phemy; for the Lord is my judge, at whose judg­
ment-seat I wish to appear, sooner than the judg-
ment-seat of m en: tor I see, man is but man;
but the judge of all the earth will judge light; so
I wish to fadl into the hands of God, for great are
his mercies; but let me not fall into the hands of
men, in whom I find ho mercy, justice, nor
equity; but unjust judgment, judging as blind
men do of colours—but what they know not now,
they will know hereafter.
I remain, with the greatest respect,
Your humble servant,
J o a n n a So u t h c o t t .
When I had ended the above letter, I was thus
answered by the Spirit:
“ Now thou hast ended thy letter, be thou
comforted; 1 will not leave thee comfortless. I
said his answer would determine the harvest, and
perfectly so shall it come, as I shall shew thee in
the night. Thou hast appealed to the judge of
quick and dead; as man nath refused to judge for
thee, thoumust be a judge for thyself. This har­
vest is to determine Iny judgment, that I am not
a man to hear in silence, neither will I return thy
petitions in anger. This harvest shall come per­
fectly like thy dream: the floor shall be scanty,
that shall break down the hearts of men, if thy
writings are not proved before the time. If they
are, I will fill your barns with increase. It is not
for thee to know whether they will or not.”
The writings were not proved before the har­
vest ; and it followed bad, as it was threatened;
and .was burnt up by the suu according to the
threatenings; and when the writings went out the
following year, then the three good harvests fol­
lowed as promised.
Digitized
ed by Google
A Communication given in 1801, in answer to
the different Seals which the writings were sealed
up with ■ *
u As different seals do noft appear,
. So different names I'll join them here;
- And all shall find the marriage true,
By every seal brought to your view.
So let the learned judge the seals,
And then the mystery I'll reveal; ..
for when the King’s Seal doth appear, '
It proves to man his words are there ;
And here they’ll find my seals are conje-^
And judge it by the woman’s hand,
That is more plain than any ring,
* Such writings from her hand to bring;
Though all her lovers tried in vain,
Her hand nor heart could ne’er obtain 5
The Serpent, twisted with the Dove,
Thought by such arts her heart to move;
The Lion and the Lamb appeared,
■ To see if they her heart could share;
The ravenous Wolf and beasts of prey
Agreed to draw her heart astray ;
The Vulture and the poisonous Snake
Judg’d they could make her heart to shake ;
And there's no poisonous beast of prqy
But hath been larking in the way,
For to draw back her steady heart,
And tried to level there his dart.
But all these arts have proved in vain ;
*Tis I alone her heart could gain,
And prove the victory is the more,
As others tried her heart to share.
Then who shall pluck her from my hand ?
Let men and devils silent stand,
And tell me if it is not true—
And all your words bring to your view ;
Then all must cry, “ we’re guilty here;
u We know we tried her heart to share ; .
“ Or else, to foil her in the way,
“ By every thought to gain the day."
So here the simple sons of men
Thought with her Maker to contend;
And they as well might climb to heaven^
For now they've tried by words were given
But all their speeches I’ll confound)
And all their towers Til soon throw down,
C
38
Digitized by Google
S4
And give this challenge unto men ;
And then their towers I'll own shall stand.
, ~ Let twelve together now appear,
And meet my chosen Shepherd here; '
9 And of one mind let all agree,
And prove from hell thy writings be;
Then I to man will give it up,
If there's twelve shepherds thus should drop.
But if their speech be divided there,
- And all their words alike don't bear ;
Then all their towers must sure fall down,
Tf they do vary in the souni:
And some will say it can't be from hell—
c
< We soonerjudge it from herself."
Then sure their buildingwon't agree ;
For unwisejudges they must be,
To think that e'er a woman's head
Such curious buildings ever laid,
As is as far beyond thy power, .
As 'mas for them to build the tower.
Then will they answer, it came from man ?
I ask them how their tower will stand,
When not one word he can make good ?
I'll soon confound, if this be said ;
But if together they'll agree,
To say, “ we'll build another way,
MAnd all agree it came from heaven ;*
u To build our towers, can this be given,
u For us to climb so very high,
“ And make our wisdom reach the sky."
Yes, there in wisdom you may boast,
And make the serpent lick the dust,
When you have provM your judgment clear,
That others may not foil you here.
So for the present tl$s I'll end:
.In print let all these lines be pefln'd;
For 1 will try the heads of men,
And see what knowledge is in them;
And if there's any I discern, -
My knowledge he will soon pull down;
' For though the good fruit hung so high, -
The knowledge sure was on the tree; .
And as the woman pluck'd it first,
That way the Serpent must be cast,
When I hand down the better food,
# Then she must give you what is good.*'—
The following communication was given upon
tny going to Bristol. Mrs. Taylor wished me not
'Digitized by Google
to go, but I told her I must go ; and then they
did every thing in their power to make me com­
fortable ; to which I wgs answered— .
41 The words from thee was spoke by me—
I will not stay thy hand:
I tell thee there’s a mystery '
You easy can’t command.
Like Taylor’s care, they’ll find mb near;
So careful will I be; .
. I’ll speak to all; for so’t shall fall*
And they’ll take care of thee. •
For in my hands I all hearts command*
And every heart I’ll turn;
Mark thou this day, to thee I say,
The father and the son;
The orte did go the cost to know,
The other said he’d speak
Unto the man to take thee in— .
The mystery there is great. ,
** SoTaylor here shan’t lose his care;
For him I’ll do the same;
*Tis done to thee, and now to mb ;
Theta let my Gospel come.
" But I’ll end here, and say no more-*-
But answer instantly,
The words by Dingels spoken there,
That was admired by thee :
Thy steady faith, as Dingels saith,
Will be admired by alT, '
When men do see the mystery ;
For down the sands must,fall.
The rock is come, it will be known :
For on it thou dost build; % ^
No storms or tempests can make fall—
’Tis men their faith do spill;
They did at first, and now at last—
The woman foil’d you all;
But when you see the mystery,
Then judge of Adam’s call:
Kaked did he appear to be,
, And hid his face away ;
I told him there for to appear,
■ Bat what did Adam say ? ’
“ Naked I am/’—behold the mafr:
llien cast your shame aside;
For I’ll appeaf to aaswer here**— '
The field is open wide.
C2
35 . .
Digitized by Google
Because you’ll see the mystery,
How naked all will come ;
Stripp’d of their clothing they will bey
That cover’d them so long.
Their wisdom great their pride did heat.
Their knowledge they did boast;
But when 1come to rescue men,
Their clothing will be lost.
Then naked here they will appear,
But shame must pass away;
The joyful news, that all will hear,
Will make them boldly say—
The woman, see, ’tis done by she;
Let her accusers come,
Then they’ll find none to cast a stone,
But own ’tis wisely done ;
Beyond the skill of Satan’s wheel,
Beyond the heads of men,
A thing to dear so perfect here, ,
Where shame can never come,
’Tis nois’d abroad, to all be*t know’d,
But few men do believe.
Ctiuld’st they but see the mystery,
They’d find another Eve
Shall now regain :—was Abel slain ?
Did I for man atone ?
The woman’s form must now be known
For to redeem her own.
But I’ll appear to tell thee here
It is not done by thee;
The power of man would overcome: '
And thou a coward be,
Did I not hold and now unfold,
To make thy anchor strong ;
Thy sands they’d see like mans to be,
And thou would’st tumble down.
" So praise no more thy courage here,
Thy persevering faith ;
’Tis I’m in thee, they all will see,
Or surely, like the rest, ,
Thy faith would fall, be it known to aiJ,
When I Jet go my hand,
I bid thee for to own to all
How trembling thou didst stand,
So near the brink tl>ou’dst often sink ; .
Anfl wilt thou boast like man ? .
Thou answer’st, no : if I let go,
Thou hast no power to staiid.”
36
Digitized b y C j O O ^ I C
37
The following are copies of additional letters
cent to the Morning Herald.
Another Address to the Public, from Joanna
Southcott.
A S I have been informed, that applications
•were made to the bookseller for the book alluded
to in the “ Warning to the Bishops,” inserted in
the paper of Tuesday, Nov. 9, and that they ex­
pected the book to have been of the same title;
therefore I take this method of inforiniug .tire
public, that it is “ The Second Book op Won­
ders” which is alluded to, that the Bishops are
applied to, for to judge between the Rev. Mr.
Pomeroy and me, from the letters which passed
between us, in 1804. See 31st page.
When a methodist was informed of my being
confined from seeing any of my friends till my
trial, his answer was, that I had now fixed my­
self ; as I might be confined for a hundred years,
if I lived so long.
Another man laughed on reading the “ W arn­
ing to the Bishops,” and said, if he had the
Bishop of Durham’s place, he would not regard
my threatenings.
When I heard these things, I reflected upon
the conduct of mankind, and I thought that I
might say with David,—“ Lord, what is man,
that thon art mindful of him !” I may say, near
forty years my spirits have been greatly woundetj
and grieved by the perverse hearts of m en; pro­
fessors as well as profane; for, if I look at the
conduct of the boasters of religion, I have not
found one man among a thousand, who profess to
be Gospel preachers, that have proved themselves
Gospel believers.
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
“ So now I plainly see the hearts of men, in
chequered lines, lie open unto me.”
To my thoughts I was answered, that the Lord
hath been provoked with man in the same man­
ner ; and found it a crooked and perverse gene­
ration, that did not know the ways of the Lord ;
therefore, he would say of this nation, as he said
of the Jews of old, that they should never enter
into his promised rest, if they waited until'the
forty years, mentioned by me, were u p ; which
will be next April, 1814. Therefore I am an­
swered, that this is the Day of Salvation, if they
will hear his voice: they must not harden their
hearts, as in the days of temptation in the wil­
derness. “ But now is the accepted tim e; now
is the day of salvation: if they turn unto the
Lord, he will have mercy upon them ; and to the
Most High God, for he will abundantly pardon
them.”—“ The King’s business requireth haste:
for a quick work will the Lord do upon the
earth. This is my strict command to thee, that
my answer to their words must be put in the
newspaper, that I may be clear from the blood of
all men. Let the newspapers be k ep t; for they
will all find the Prophecies true—for blessings,
or judgments, according as men now a c t; for I
shall trifle with man no longer; neither bear
with their putting it off to a future time.”—This
is the answer of the Lord.
88
Joanna Southcott,
Monday, Nov. 15, 1813.
The following very extraordinary article was
received yesterday, with a request for its imme­
diate insertion in our paper:—
Digitized by Google
4 Fourth Letter o f Prophecy, by Joanna South-
cott.
TO THE PUBLIC AT LARGE,
My former Letters of Warning have roused va­
rious passions in men, and some public com­
ments. Among the latter I shall notice a letter in
the Stourbridge paper of the 12th instant, signed
E phraim, wherein he advises me to “ make a.
friend of his Satanic Majesty ; as he may lay his
frightful paw upon m e th e re fo re he advises me
to “ court his favour—speak kindly of him ; for
it is good to have a friend wherever we go.”
I shall answer him from the words of Solomon
—“ j4 fool's bolt is soon shot; the soul of the,
wicked desireth evil; and wisdom is too high Jor
a fo o l'' But he who thinks to find a friend in
the devil will find himself deceived. I put no
trust in man ; then I certainly shall not put trust
in the devil, who hath used his utmost endeavours
to work in the hearts of men agaiust m e: and
formed himself in men, to cast out floods of lies
against me. I have not built upon such sandy
foundation. Though the world laugh at my
weakness, to believe that the Bishops will give
themselves the trouble of coming forward and
pass their judgment as required; I puf no more
trust in the Bishops, as men, than I do in their
chariots or .horses; but my trust is in the Lord
of Hosts, who saith to the proud waves of the
sea—Hitherto shalt thou go, and no further: who
can say to the South, give u p ; and to the north,
keep not back : who can make his people willing,
in the day of his power. This is the f a it h that
I rely upon—the r o c k of a g e s , and the God of m y .
salvation—that the 'gates of hell cannot prevail
against; and this is the f a it h that oar Savioup
39
Digitized by t ^ o o Q l e
said, in his Gospel, was like the wise man, build-,
ing his house upon the rock, that the rain des-
, cended, and the floods came, and the winds blew
and beat upon that house, and it fell n o t; for it
was founded upon the rock : and this is the r o c k ,
which I have built upon; and therefore my house
will not fa ll; but those who have built like this
foolish man, will find their houses to be built on
the sand ; and great will be the fall thereof.
This is my answer to the newspaper—to let
them know', that iny trust is neither in men nor
devils; but in the Lord, whose knowledge and
peace are past man’s understanding.
And now I am ordered to put in the news­
paper a part of a Prophecy given to me yester­
day, fo r the public at large:—
“ 1 tell thee, that the ensuing year will be such
a year as never was seen in England, since it was
a nation ; for, if my commands are obeyed, that
I send blessings to the nation, such as were never
experienced before; yet Satan’s weapons ivill
be strong, with rage and fury, to fight in men,
till, like Sodom and Gomorrah, they will be
destroyed, and swept away with the besom of
destruction. But, from the days of Noah, there
is a longer warning, to awaken those who are
not so strongly filled with the devil against my
coming to bring in my kingdom of righteousness
and peace.. Thy faith is given to thee as a gift
of God, which the world can neither give thee,
nor take it from thee: and they will find that the
sound o f thy Master’sfeet is behind thee”—This
is the answer of the Lord to ine.
Joanna Southcott.
40
friday, Nov. 19, 1813.
DigitizedI by Google
41
le tte rs o f Prophecy, by Joanna Southcott.
L E T T E R V.
Though the Bishops are silent to the request
made of them, and the warning given them, that
they will not come forward to support the work,
if it be of GOD, or to confute it, if not; yet I am
informed that one of the Bishops hath said, that
I have done more mischief than ever an individual
had done before.
I can scarcely credit the report to be true, that
a Bishop should see it in this light, and not use
his authority to stop the Hmischief,” when the
power is put into his hands.
1 shall answer such Bishops, as the King’s
Jester once answered him. W hen a nobleman sent
a petition to his majesty, to crave his pardon for a
third murder he had committed, the king said to
bis jester, “ 1 know not what to do concerning
this man : he hath killed two men before, which I
pardoned him for, and now he hath killed the
third.” The jester answered, “ No, he has not
killed three men; he has killed but one.” His
majesty asked him how he could make out that.
The jester said, “ if thou hadst had him hanged
for the first man, he would never have killed ano­
ther ; so thou hast killed the other two. “ A hl”
said the king, “ dost thou say so ? then he shall
never kill another.”—To this I was answered—
“ Now let the bishop be as wise as the king,
or out of his own mouth will I condemn him; if
he sees this mischief going on, and doth not stir
to prevent it, when I have put it in his power, and
he judge it is from the devil, he will find my anger
kindled against him, if he still lets it go on. Will
they suffer sin of the blackest dye to go on,, and
never stir one step to stop the torrent of this evil?
Digitized by Google
Then let them know that my judgments are just,
to cut them off, as cumberers of the ground. If
all should speak as thou hast heard of one, then
out of their own mouths will i condemn them a ll:
for they shall find that thou art in perfect obedi­
ence to my commands. And will they call this
mischief? Then let them know my commands,
which stand on record—be clear in judging that
you may be just in condemning. And now to
their consciences thou must appeal, whether they
think it be right to see mischief spreading through­
out the land, and they standing silent to have it
so, when it is put in their power to prevent it ?
For, on one side or other the sin must be great;
because they must know, if thy visitation be from
the Lord, and they call it mischief in thee to obey
my commands; then their sins must be great, for
condemning my love in warning them of my
coming to establish peace and righteousness on
the earth. If this be despised, let them own the
justice of my anger and indignation at the blas­
phemy that is daily spoken against my visitation.
“ And this-is my command to the bishops, if
they wish to find favour in my sight, as I have in­
vested them with power, and commanded thee to
appeal to them, let them exercise that power I
have put in their hands. This is my command to
thee, that thou put my answer in the newspaper,
that they may see the justice of my threatenings,
Sf all be treated with silent contempt.”—This isf
the answer of the Lord to me.”
Joanna Southcott.
Letters of Prophecy, by Joanna Southcott.
L E T T E R VI.
Mr. Editor,—I notice in your paper of the
26th instant, an answer to my letter on the 20th,
respecting my faith, by a writer, under the signa-
44
Digitized by Google
lure of “ A Methodist,” who expresses, himself to
be the true Ephraim, wishing for instruction, and
desirous of knowing whether my pretensions be
a vain boasting of faith, upheld by applying the
Scriptures to myself, or whether it be grounded
on the Rock of Ages.
These inquiries are just, therefore I shall an­
swer a wise man according to his wisdom. I
shall first say, as our Saviour did to John the Bap­
tist, when he sent his disciples to know if he were
the Christ. He said, go your way and tell John
what things ye have seen and heard ; and in like
manner my answer is to Ephraim, that I have ex­
perienced the truth of the spirit, which visits me
from the year ninety-two to this day, of both pri
yate and public events, concerning this nation and
the surrounding nations; and these prophecies
were first put into the hands of ministers from the
year 1796 to 1800, for them to be witnesses of the
truth being foretold. In the year 1801,1 publish­
ed to the world at large. In 1802, during the
time of peace, 1 published what was hastening on,
of the war that hath since taken place. And I
can prove from my writings, how these events
were foretold, when there was no appearance of
them. Therefore I may say with the woman of
Samaria, behold the man that told me all things:
tell me, is not this the Christ, wrho hath thus far
fulfilled his words, in the past, and now given me
strength of faith to insert prophecies in the public
papers, of what shall happen in one year, accord­
ing as men obey or disobey what is required of
them? If they cannot judge from the past, they
may judge from what is to come; therefore mine
is no boasting faith,’ without knowing in whom I
have believed, but a faith fixed on the Rock of
Ages, with slroug and sure ground to rely on, that
no one know eth of but myself. The world must
judge me worse than mad, to insert such things
43
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
f
in the newspapers, if 1 had not a full assurance
.that what the Lord hath said he will fulfil. I
have shewn niy faith by my works, and the gates
of hell cannot prevail against me.
Now I shall notice another observation made
by “ A Methodist,” where he says—“ Would to
heaven that myself and my brethren were invested
with the authority of the bishops, and we would
soon search out the truth.” To this I am answer­
ed—
“ Let him try his brethren, and he will find
them like David’s brethren, to condemn the pride
of his heart; and like Ephraim, the pride of
Israel to testify to his face: for they do not return
to the Lord their God, nor seek him for all this:
therefore, if he puts his trust in man, he will soon
become like Ephraim, a silly dove without a
heart ; if he doth not put his trust in the Lord,
and say with David, there is cause enough, (for
he knoweth not what man is,) his brethren, like
strangers, will devour his strength; therefore no
trust can be pnt in man. But, if he be the true
Ephraim, he will now' apply himself to wisdom,
and get understanding, and see that it is time to
sow to yourselves in righteousness, to reap in
mercy: break up your fallow ground, for it is
time to seek the Lord, till he come and rain
righteousness upon you; then I will notreturh to
destroy Ephraim, for I am God, and not man, the
Holy One in the midst of thee.”
This is a prophecy given me for the true Eph­
raim, who wishes to be clear in judging, before he
condemns.
44
Joanna Southcott,
Tuesday, Nov. 30, 1813.
The following was sent to the Morning Herald,
l>ut the Editor objected to its being inserted.
Digitized
tized by Google
45
Letters of Prophecy, by Joanna Southcott. ,
L E T T E R VII.
The following ave the words of the Lord re­
specting the conduct of the Bishops.
“ Two months thou hast been warning the
Bishops; once by the private letter and book;
to which they were silent; then I ordered thee
to warn them in the public newspapers, and gave
them liberty to come to thee; or they might have
sent to Pomeroy, and ordered him to come to thee,
to convince thee that thy visitation was wrong, if
the language of his heart was different from what
thou hadst been informed of by m e; as then to
his judgment thou must have given u p ; for this
power I put in their hands. But, as they have
refused either to come to thee, to judge for
theirselves, or to send for him to decide the
cause; I now tell thee, my appointed time is u p ;
and my strict command is now to thee to call
Pomeroy forward, to answer, between God and his
own conscience, whether the words are true or
not, that I told thee concerning him. For, as he
said that the Lord would briug thee into judg­
ment for injuring his character, he shall know it
is I the Lord who bringeth him into judgment, to
judge between the wisdom of man and the wis­
dom of the Lord. Know, he said it was through
the persecution and persuasions of men that he
was made to destroy the letters which 1 ordered
thee to put in his hands. Then now let him look
to the words of the Apostle. 1 Cor. i. 19.— For
it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the
wise, and bring to nothing the understanding of
the prudent. The world by wisdom knoweth not
God.” H e hath followed the wisdom of the
w orld; thou hast rejected the wisdom of the
world, to follow on to know the Lord; then
Digitized by Google
know it is written, Ye shall know tlie Lord, if*yd
follow on to know him. And now, by the dif­
ferent conduct of you two, shall the truth of this
Scripture be established; to staud or fall. There­
fore my answer* must go into the public paper,
that, as the Bishops have refused to come for­
ward to be any judges of my visitation to thee,
as it was required, so I now forbid them all from
coming to thee, till thou hast had Pomeroy’s an­
swer. For it must now be decided between him
and thee alone; and when thou hast made every
thing clear before him ; then let him pass his
final judgment. And if he then say it is from
the devil; then to his judgment thou shalt give
up thy cause; and ask his pardon in the public
paper, for disgracing his character, if he can
prove that thou art wrong, and that he is right*
in acting according to the wisdom of man. But
this cannot be decided by letter: be must appear
in person, and hav'e every thing laid before him.
But he will have none to contend with but thee
only; and thou shalt have none to contend with
but him only, until he hath decided, which is
wrong, and which is right.
“ And now, I tell thee, it will be fatal for him,
if he now refuses to come forward, and judge
for himself—to decide between him and thee: for
' in this he is called to judge between God and
man. So that I have laid no heavy burden upon
him, to contend with the great and learned, be1
*
fore every thing is made clear before him.—And
now let him call to his remembrance the Eleven
Days, that I said were in store, to stay my heavy
hand; but he must not stay till they are up.
This is my command to him. Let him hastily
prepare for his journey, as soon as he receives
the newspaper, which 1 have ordered thee to
send to him. As the Bishops have not called
)pm forward, let him know, I the Lord have
Digitized by Google
called him, -to decide the truth o f the Prophecy,
which I ordered thee to send to the Bishops.”
This warning is given from the Lord to me.
Joanna Soutkcott
Wednesday, Dec. \st, 1813.
»
A Communication given, November 13/h, 1813, in
answer to a Text preached by the Rev. Mr.
, Pomeroy, in March, 1799.
1 Corinthians Yu. 11. “ For other foundation
can no man lay than that is laid, which is Jesus
Christ.”
I was ordered to mark what follows the text,
in the 12th verse—“ If any man build upon this
foundation, gold, silver, precious stone, wood,
hay, stubble; every man’s works shall be made
manifest; for the day shall declare it, because it
shall be revealed by fire; and the fire shall try
every man’s work, of what sort it is. If any
man’s works abide, which he hath built there­
upon, he shall receive a reward. If any man’s
works shall be burned, he shall suffer loss; but
he himself shall be saved ; ) et so as by fire.”
The A nsweh o f the Sp i r i t .
“ Now I shall answer thee from this chapter,
aud begin from the building. See the different
ways it is placed by the Apostle. Gold is one
thing; but know what is said of gold—dross may
be round mixed with the gold, when it is tried
by the fire; and so a man’s faith may be fixed
upon the foundation pf my Gospel, that no man
can lay another foundation for his redemption, but
by pleading my merit and mercies, to come and die
for the redemption of man. Thus a man’s faith
may be built upon the Gospel, as gold ; yet when
it comes to be tried, like gold, by the fire, there
•is some dross may be found amongst it, unless it
47
Digitized by Google
be the true gold, that retaineth no dross. I^ovf
come to silver, which is of less value, yet it
may be a mark of some faith ; as ye see in the
world at large, and among the professors of reli­
gion, who say they believe that Christ came to
die for the salvation of man, and that all was
finished when he expired on the cross. Here the
silver will not bear the fire, without much dross
appearing, when £ bring them back to my Gos-»
pel—that I came to seek and to save that which
was lost—that by the fall man was lost—that I
should come again and restore that loss—that I
should take out of my kingdom all that offended
and did wickedly—that I died to overcome the
\vorld, and bring in the redemption of roan—that
I should send the Spirit of Truth to warn before
my coming—that the Comforter should come,
that should abide with you for ever. Now,
where men have not this faith, the fine gold is be­
come dim, and the silver is mixed with dross. But
nowcometo the precious ston e. There is no dross
there: there is the pearl of great p r i c e : there
Is the elect precious : there is the faith fixed
upon the Rock of Ages: there is the fa it h fixed,
as I said in iny Gospel, of a man's building his
house upon a rock, that the storms beat, and
the winds blew; but i t 'fell not; because it was
builded upon the b o c k ; and that rock waa
C hrist—who was with Moses in the wilderness
— who smote the rocks, and the waters gushed
put—who sent the manna from heaven, and
brought them that were obedient into the pro­
mised land.
rt These were types and shadows of the first.
And know, I have explained to thee already why
the Beasts were ordered to be offered up, as sin-
offerings, and as peace-offerings; and why I
rended the kingdom from Saul—because he did
not destroy the Beasts, as I commanded. Fo**
tluu knowest, as a beast, Satan’s curse was pro­
48
Digitized by Google
nounced, in the form of a serpent, to be above
every beast. Bjit when I come to bring in my
kingdom ; then those who wish to preserve the
Beast and have him remain will have my kingdom
rended from them, as I rended the kingdom from .
Saul. For as I ordered a Lamb to be slain, and the
blood to be put on the posts of the doors, that it
might be seen, when the destroying angel went
through Egypt, when I delivered the children of
Israel from the hand of Pharaoh, that these stood
but types and shadows of the end. And know
from my Gospel, I came to be the Lamb slain
from the foundation of the world : for as the
blood of Abel crieth for vengeance, so the blood
of Cubist crieth for reconciliation; therefore it
is written by the prophets that the blood of bulls
and goats will not do; then said I, lo, I.come,
in the volume of the book it is written of me, to
do thy will, O God. Then let them look to the
creation, what was the will of God, when he
created the woman ; what was the will of God,
when he pronounced the curse upon the serpent,
for betraying the woman. When the eyes of
men's understanding are opened this to discern,
and their faith is become like thine, they may say,
he that trusteth in the Lord shall be as Mount Zion,
that cannot be moved: for as the hills stand
round about Jerusalem, so the Lord standeth
round about his people,.that the gates of hell
shall not prevail against them— that he carries the
lambs in his bosom, and gently leads those that
are with young—that whosoever come unto me,
I will in no wise cast them out—that I am the
vine, and ye are the branches; and if ye abide
in me, ye shall bear much fruit: for I died to
overcome the world, and raise up my true friends
and followers in -the last day; and then shall I
freely give them all things.
“ This is the faith that is compared to the
D
49
Digitized by Google
precious stone, built upon the foundation of my
Gospel, which is C hrist, the Rock of Ages,
prophesied of by all the Prophets, that is spoken
of in my Gospel, confirmed by the Apostles, and
shewn to John, by visions, in the Revelations;
and this is the R ock, that I have given thee faith
to build upon, that the gates of hell shall not pre­
vail against—
“ And now come to the following words—
“ wood, hay, st ubbl e : every man’s works shall
be made manifest.” Then now I ask thee, what
is the use of wood ? Thou sayest, for many
things: it is good for building; it is good for
shipping; it is good to make husbandry; it is
good for the fire ; all kind of uses wood may be
put to; so that the wood is of use in various
ways.. But now I ask thee, what is the use of
Hay? Thou sayest, for bullocks and horses; but
of no use for Christians, unless it were in a time
of famine, they might contrive to eat that, in­
stead of nothing. But as to the stubble, it is
good for nothing but for fire, or to be cast as
dung upon the earth.
“ Then now I shall answer thee. Like hay
is my Gospel become to mankind; for so great
is thefamine, throughout the nation, of the true
sense and meaning of my Gospel, what 1 spoke
of the end, when I come to fulfil it; that I now
tell thee, the fine Gold is become dim, the Silver
is become dross, the Precious Stone is mocked and
despised, the Wood remaineth to. set it on fire;
which is now raging with the fury of hell, to des­
troy the Precious Stone; and my people are fed
with hay and stubble. T hus'will it be proved,
when every man’s work is tried; and therefore I
shall kindle a fire the other way, to destroy the
stubble; but the hay may remain to feed those
whom thou hast compared to the beasts, for want
of knowledge, wisdom, or understanding: be­
cause in this manner my people have been fed,
50
Digitized by Google
by men’s keeping' back the truth of my Gospel,
what I spoke of the end. For this is the day
that shall declare it; because it is revealed by
fire—by the fire of my love; by the fire of mine
anger shall every man’s works now be tried, of
what sort their faith is: but those whose faith
abides, which they Jhave built hereupon, accord­
ing to my Gospel, and what 1 have revealed to
thee, they shall receive a reward of their faith.
" And now I shall come to Pomeroy. He will
suffer loss; because he burned the work that was
delivered to him. In this he suffered the loss of
his honour at the first; and thou knowest not what
he hath suffered in the loss of his peace of m ind;
but what thou knowest not now, thou wilt know
hereafter.—But as the words are spoken by the
Apostle, so shall it be unto him : he himself shall
be saved; yet so as. by fire: he hath suffered the
fire and indignation of mankind; and thou
knowest not what fire he hath suffered within,
through fear and jealousy. Thou, knowest thy
own sufferings, when the fire hath burnt two
ways in thy heart, with faith and fear: thus the
heart knoweth its own bitterness, that a stranger
doth not intermeddle with. So thou canst no
more judge of his heart, what different passions
have been working there; or what fire, through
jealousy, he hath felt, any more than he knoweth
what thou hast felt. But now let him awake as
one out of sleep; let him see how the fine Gold
is become dim; and .the Silver become dross;
that he hath not discerned the Precious Stone;
and therefore he burnt the works that were deli­
vered to his hands; and thereby he suffered the
loss he complained of. This let him discern and
turn unto m e ; then he will find 1 shall turn unto
him ; and he shall be saved by the fire of my
love; because he suffered this loss by the fire of
Satan’s malice, which he worked in men against
D2
51
Digitized by Google
him without, and the temptations laid strongly
within.
“ Now come to the following words— “ Know
ye not that ye are the temples of God, and that
the Spirit of God dwelleth in you? But now I
ask mankind, how they will prove that the Spirit
of God dwelleth in them, to will and to do of
my good pleasure; that the pleasure of the Lord
hath prospered in their hands? For I now tell thee*
when men come to be this Temple of G o d , that
the Spirit of God dwelleth in you, then my Spirit
cannot be rejected, nor can my will be refused.
“ If any man defile the temple of God, him
shall God destroy; for the temple of God is holy,
which temple ye are.”
“ And now I shall answer thee, the meaning
of these words. Know I have told thee, from
my visitation to thee, that the Spirit of God
dwelleth in thee, because I have brought thee
conformable to all his will, to obey every com­
mand I have given thee; and my commandments
are holy, just, and good, to the everlasting hap­
piness of mankind. But now come to the unbe­
lief of mankind. How are the words defiled by
m en! how are they set at nought, as though
they were from the devil! This is defiling the
temple of the living God, where my Spirit dwel­
leth within. And let them discern further, how
the rage of hell hath worked in men to be loving
and making of lies, to defile thy character. Such
I tell thee I shall destroy; because I have said,
that thy life is wholly dedicated to m e ; and in
thee I shall do all my good pleasure. Therefore
let no man deceive himself; if any man among
you seem to be wise in this world, let him be­
come a fool, that he may be wise; which meaneth,
to acknowledge his own folly, wherein he erred,
trusting to the wisdom of the world ; then he will
clearly discern that the wisdom of this world »s
foolishness with G od: for, as it is written, he
52
Digitized by Google
taKeth the wise in their own craftiness; and again,'
the Lord knoweth the thoughts of the wise, that
they are vain; therefore let no man glory in men.
And now I ask thee, what glory he hath to boast
of in men; And yet I tell thee, in their craftiness
they are now taken; which will be to their own
shame and confusion; because the living must lay
to heart what the dead hath done; because I have
already revealed to thee in what manner the craf­
tiness began, and by whom.
“ And now come to the following chapter, which
Hows was directed to.—
*
* I know nothing by myself; yet am I not
hereby justified; but he that judgeth me is the
Lord. Therefore judge nothing before the time,
until the Lord come, who both will bring to light
the bidden things of darkness, and will make ma­
nifest the counsels of the heart: and then shall
every man have praise of God.”
“ I shall answer the meaning of the words. It
is not every man in the world that can or will
have praise of God, in this judgment; but let
them discern the words—The time is come, that
the Lord hath revealed to thee “ the hidden things
of darkness, and made known the counsels of the
heart.” So that these men, who come forward to
pass just judgment, as I have commanded by thee,
to be clear in judging, and just m condemning,
and to judge between man and man, ns I have
made known the counsels ot the heart; these
that assemble together to pass just judgment, in
the manner I have directed, they will all have
praise of God. And therefore he may say with
Paul, “ It is a very small thing that I should be
judged of you, or of man’s judgment: yea, I
judge not mine own self. He that judgeth me
is the Lord.” Thus far the Apostle’s words are
verified in him; because, thou knowest, I have
judged him front his. temptations, from his perse- .
cution, and from the craftiness of the w ise; and
53
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
as I Jiave judged him, I will now justify him, if
he condemn the wisdom of the world, by his own
folly; to caution every one to be careful how they
trust to the wisdom of the wise, who trust to their
own wisdom. And now let him look to the
chapter through—“ That ye might learn in us,
not to think of men, above that which is written.
Let no one of you be puffed up, foi\ one against
another:”—for thus pride brought on the conten­
tion ; because they were puffed up against him.” -
The answer of the Spirit, why it was said that
the Mysteries were hid from those I had been
writing to in 1797.
“ Now I shall answer thee, why it was hid from
th e m b e c a u s e of the pride of their hearts, who
boasted of their wisdom, their learning, and their
greatness; and I knew with what contempt they
looked upon one that .was so mean and low as
they judged thee: and therefore they judged the
Lord another such as theirselves, without consi­
dering that my ways are not as man's ways, nor
iny thoughts as man's thoughts: for as high as
the heavens are from the earth, so far are my
ways from roan’s ways, and my thoughts from
man’s thoughts, And therefore it was hid from
them,- to bring down the pride of men. Let them
look to my humility, when I took man’s nature
upon m e : but how was my humility scorned by
the rich and great, and by the learned, who
boasted of their wisdom! Therefore, marvel not
in thy heart, that I should bring their wisdom to
the ground, by concealing from them any know­
ledge of my ways, or my goings, before I bring it
like the noon-day sun before them, that they may
acknowledge they could not trace my footstep:
for to them it was hid, as in the great deep; and
my paths past man’s finding out: then, what have
men to boast of? Know it "is written, “ Let not,
54
Digitized by Google
55
the wise man boast of his wisdom, nor the strong
man boast of his strength; neither let the rich1
man boast of his riches for riches have wings'
and fly aw ay: and to him that 1 gave knowledge
and strength of understanding, to trace my foot­
steps in many things, but see how soon he lost his
strength, and became weak, like other m en! And
know the others, who boasted of their wisdom
and learning, where is their wisdom gone now!
Can men of wisdom plead in their behalf? In thy;
heart thou answerest, no: then let them come to
my Gospel, and acknowledge that, without me,
they can do nothing; that every good and perfect
gift must come down from the Father of light, in
whom there is no variableness nor the shadow of*
turning: and, to prove the truth of the Scriptures,
I said it Was hid from them.
Isaiah, xxix. 13—16. “ Wherefore the Lord-
said, forasmuch as this people drew near me with
their mouth, and with their lips do honour me,-
but have removed their hearts far from me, and
their fear towards me is taught by the precept of
men; therefore behold, I will proceed to do a
marvellous work among this people, even a mar­
vellous work and a wonder: for the wisdom of
their wise men shall perish, and the understand­
ing of their prudent men shall be hid. Woe unto
them that seek deep to hide their counsel from
the Lord, and their works are in the dark, and
they say, who seeth us ? and who knoweth us ?
Surely your turning of things upside down shall
be esteemed as the potter’s clay: for shall the
work say of him that made it, he made me not?
or.shalt the thing formed say of him that formed
it, he had no understanding ?”
“ This I tell thee men have been trying to d o :
they have been turning of things upside down ;
for they have been placing good for evil, and evil
for good; they thought to hide their counsels
from the Lord, thinking none saw them, or heard
v Digitized by t ^ o o Q l e
1
them: but as none can hide his counsel from mz;
I .have revealed their counsel to thee, and how
they wanted to make thee say, he that made thee,
and revealed my will unto thee, had no under­
standing. Thus men have tried to make the lan-
guage of thy heart, that thou shouldest condemn
thy Creator, as they have done; to say the Lord
could never have formed things ,in this m anner;
because there was no understanding in his goings,
in the manner thou art directed. And this is the
language thou hast heard to day, from the maa
who calleth himself Ephraim; and who advised
thee to make the devil thy friend; but I tell thee,
5Uch men’s destruction is sure, without hasty and
bitter repentance. I shall frustrate the tokens of
such liars, and make such diviners mad, and turn
their wisdom back upon their own heads, and
make their knowledge foolishness. Isaiah, xliv.
35.’ For 1 tell thee, the most hardened sinner
upon earth, that doeth the will of the devil in atl
things,:thinking thereby to make him. a friend,
they will but.fiud him the greater their enemy;
because 1 shall e k e him fu ll power over them.
Therefore I tell thee, Satan’s suggestions, to come
in that manner and work upon the minds of men,
thinking they shall be favoured by making Satan
their friend, will only kindle my wrath and indig­
nation against them, to give them wholly into the
power of their adversary, which is the devil.
“ So now let such fools take care, for I have
shewn them what their end will be: for many
such fools will now arise. Know in what man­
ner Satan pleaded with thee, how great thou
shouldest be in hell, if those worshippedst him;
and so in like manner will he now plead with
many, to harden them on in sin. Therefore it is
written, “ woe to the inhabitants of the earth and
the sea, for the devil is come down unto you,
having great wrath, because he knoweth that he
hath but a short time.” So marvel not in thy
56
Digitized
led by Google
heart that he worketh in men to persecute thee:
and this persecution will increase.
“ But now I shall come to the chapter, where
these mad diviners are mentioned. From the
words of the Prophet ye may see the end. Let
men begin the chapter, and read it through.—
And now come to the last verse—“ That saith of
Cyrus, he is my shepherd, and shall perform all
my pleasure, even saying to Jerusalem, thou shalt
be built; and to the temple, thy foundation shall
be laid.”—Here were things spoken of Cyrus, as
z.Shadow then to the J ews ; but the Substance re­
mains for the end : the fulfilment of Cyrus was
never yet accomplished. And to bring men to dis­
cern the Scriptures clearly, I have spoken many
things of the Archdeacon and the Chancellor’s
being convinced of their errors, which thou hast
been stumbled a t; because they are no more, and
were not convinced. But know I have spoken
of them two w ays; and one way thou hast seen
fulfilled by the dead; and 1 now tell thee, the
other way, thou wilt see it perfectly fulfilled, by
an Archdeacon and a Chancellor, to blame their
conduct, as I told thee they would blame their-
selves. So what was not fulfilled in them, thou
wilt see fulfilled in others: and so they will find
from' the words of the Prophet, in the xlv. chap­
ter, what was not fulfilled by Cyrus will now
be fulfilled. For now they shall look unto me,
and be saved all the ends of the earth. Thus
will I go on, till the words of the Prophets are
accomplished: for I said I caine not to destroy
the Law of God or the Prophets, but to fulfil
them. And let them see what I spoke in the
Gospel, of the Son of Man, of my Stewards,
and of my Servants.
“ And now I shall come to the words of the
Prophet, and bring it back to the Jews and the
Gentiles. Isaiah, liv. 5, 6, “ For thy M aker is
thine husband (the Lord of Hosts is his name)
. 57
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
aud thy Redeemer the Holy One of Israel, the
God of the whole earth shall he be called. For
the Lord hath .called thee as a woman forsaken
and grieved in spirit, and a wife of youth, when-
thou wast refused, saitb thy God.”
Isaiah, 1. 1.—“ Thus saith the Lord, where is
the bill of your mother's divorcement, whom I
have put away? or which of my credfcors is it
to whom 1 have sold you? Behold, for your
iniquities have you sold yourselves, and for your
transgression is your mother put away.”
Isaiah, li. 17.—“ Awake, awake, stand up,
0 Jerusalem, which hast drunk at the hand of
the Lord the cup of his fury; thou hast drunken
the dregs of the cup of trembling, and wrung
them out. There is none to guide her among all
the sons whom she hath brought forth; neither
is there any that takelh her by the hand, of all
the sons that she hath brought up.”
“ Now come to the Revelation, the last chap-
ther—“ The Spirit and the Bride say, come: and
let him that heareth say, com e: and let him that
is athirst, come: and whosoever will, let him
take the water of life freely.”
“ Now I shall answer thee from these Scrip­
tures, and bring it back to the Jews, and bring
it out to the Gentiles, as ye call yourselves of the
Gentiles, without knowing what stock ye sprang
from.—But now come to my sayings, that I said
1 came to fulfil the words of the Prophets; and
come to the words of the Apostle :
Galatians, iv. 1.—“ Now I say, that the Heir,
as long as he is a child, differeth nothing from a ‘
servant though he be lord of all.”
Hebrews, i. 1, 2. —“ God who at sundry times*
and divers manners, spake in times past unto
the fathers by the prophets, hath in these last
days spoken unto us by his Son, whom be hath
appointed heir of all things, by whom also he
made the world.” y .
58
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
Titus, ■
iii. 6, 7.—“ Which he shed on us abun­
dantly, through Jesus Christ our Saviour: that
being justified by his grace,.we should be made
heirs according to the hope of eternal life.”
“ Now I shall answer thee, from these Texts
of Scripture, which I ordered thee to bring to­
gether. f I have already explained to thee the
meaningfof the Prophet’s words—“ the Lord of
Hosts is thy husband but now I shall call thee
back to the Jew s; for there ye may come to the
shadow ; because I was born of the Woman,
without an earthly Father. This men may place
to the Jews, without considering .that she was
espoused to an husband ; therefore She could not
be called according to the words of the Prophet;
and yet, I tell thee, from the Woman's being put
away, saying, where is the bill of your mother's
divorcement ? this alludes to the Jews, as a sha­
dow of the beginning; for, through unbelief, my
mother was put away as an adultrous woman,
being divorced For though I have ordered thee
to bring these chapters together, yet, I tell thee,
they have not one likeness ; because one alludes
lo the Jews, the other to the Gentiles. For as an
adultrous woman, being put away from her hus­
band, the Jews through unbelief put away my
M other; and it was for their iniquities that
she was put away. Therefore, it is for the
transgression of the Jews, and for their unbelief,
that my Mother was put away from them,
as not' being acknowledged by them. For,
when I came, there was no m an; when I called,
there was none to answer; because they did not
believe the report, that I came to redeem Israel;
or that I had any power to deliver them. For,
though I rebuked the winds and the storms ; and
the seas gave up to m e ; though I walked upon
the seas, as upon dry ground; though I worked
miracles, by the fishes, to fill their nets that they
broke; and though I fed five thousand with the
59
Digitized by L j O O q I c
/
five loaves and the two small fishes; yet aH
this was but as stink in their nostrils—forgotten,
tike the miracles I wrought in E gypt: and though
I made the blind to see, the deaf to hear, and the
lame to w alk; yet all my miracles were despised
by them ; they went on like the children in the
wilderness, who murmured, because they were
not immediately delivered, and brought into the
promised land; as they expected that an imme­
diate deliverance should be wrought for them,
without having any trouble or difficulties them­
selves ; or without being put to the trial of their
love, a trial of their faith, or a trial of their
obedience, they expected to be Abraham’s chil­
dren, and to have the promise made to Abraham
and Isaac and Jacob, without having Abraham’s
faith, Abraham’s trial, and Abraham’s obedi­
ence. This they expected in the wilderness, and
went on murmuring and complaining, till they
provoked me to anger to destroy their fathers,
who came out of E gypt; for which reason none
but Joshua and Caleb, that came out of Egypf,
ever possessed the promised land. Yet 1 did not
return the iniquities of the fathers upon the chil­
dren, but brought them into the land of Canaan.
Here let them look to the wilderness, how I
smote the rocks and the waters gushed o u t; how
I sent manna from heaven, and they were fed
with angels’ food; yet, for all this, they were un­
thankful; but expected great blessings, that I
should shew in love to them, while they shewed
•no love to m e; therefore I destroyed them in the
wilderness.
“ Here was I their spiritu al guide, their spi*
ritual teacher, by the hand of M oses: and I
came down in the bush amongst them, to shew
myself to Moses their teacher; but when I saw
the perverseness of their hearts, and knowing the
temptations they had from the devil, after trying
man for more than four thousand years, 1 took
60
Digitized by Google
ai
man’s nature upon me ; I became flesh and blood
to dwell with men; and like man I became an
infant of days, to be born of the woman. Here
I became in all things like man, to suffer tempta­
tions, to suffer persecution; to resemble man’s
weakness, by hiding myself. All this I have
done, to be a judge of the infirmities of man, that
I might be ajudge of what man had to go through,
and a clear judge of the different conduct in
, mankind. Thus as man I took his nature upon
me, in the flesh; but not in the spirit. And
as man I became the prophet—I clothed the hea­
vens with blackness, and I made sackcloth their
covering, when I found myself despised and re­
jected of men; I gave my back to the smiters,
and my cheeks to them that plucked offthe hair;
I hid not my face from shame and spitting.
“ Thus as man I bore all the reproach of man;
and I bore it all for man, that 1should come again
in power to destroy the works ofthe devil. There­
fore all shall wax old as a garment; the moth
Shall eat them up, because they have kindled a
' fire that compasses theirselves about; with imparks
of tire, walking in the light of their own fire, and
in the sparks that they have kindled: this shall
they have of roy hand: they shall lie down in
. sorrow.—This hath been already to the Jews;
because they walked in the light of their own fire;
and rejected the fire of my love to come and un-
\ dertake man’s cause for him, to become flesh and
dwell with them. But this wisdom, this mercy,
this goodness, and this love to mankind, were
despised and rejected ; because they did not look
, to their everlasting happiness; neither did they
consider the shortness of time, how soon the
moth would eat them, up, and how soon they
might go down with sorrow to their graves—to
meet the master they had served, and the devil
whom they had obeyed. Therefore I told them
their dangers, in my Gospel; I told them the dif-
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
ferent rewards to the righteous and to the wicked;
I told them I came to seek and to save that
which was lost; that I came to be a light to man­
kind, for their everlasting happiness in time and
eternity: but they refused to walk in the light;
and the fire of my love was despised by them ; so
I left them to walk in the sparks of (ire they had
kindled themselves: for I told them tire destruc­
tion that should come upon them, that their holy
city should be destroyed, that they should be
scattered in all nations. This I told them should
be their end, if they rejected my offers of love,
to gather them together, as a hen gathereth her
brood under her wings.
“ But know what I said to my friends and fol­
lowers—who is among you that feareth the Lord,
that obeyeth the voice of his servant ? For I said,
as a servant I came amongst them, to be a ser­
vant to mankind, and to do the will of my Fa­
ther : for,- as a servant doeth every thing to wait
upon his master, to make him comfortable, to
take the trouble and burthen from him; so did I
come amongst mankind, to take the burthen- and
load from them, which is the burthen of sin and
sorrow. And therefore I said, they that walked
ia darkness, and bad no light, let them trust in
the name of the Lord, and stay upon their God:
for he that was near that justified me, was near
to justify my friends and followers likewise; and
therefore I told them, that the Lord would be
with them, as he had been with me.: for they
should be.assisted by my Spirit and my Power:
and my power I gave unto them, by the Holy
Ghost; and I filled them with love for me, as I
was filled in love for them. Thus did I do unto
them that hearkened to my voice: and they went
on in my likeness, to give their backs to the smi-
ters; for they did not regard the reproach of
men. So in one likeness, when I took man’s nar
.ture upon me, my faithful friends and followers
03
Digitizedby Google__
took, up the cross to follow me, and went on r
bearing the reproach of men.
Then now, who is he that contendeth with me ?
let us stand together. Who is mine adversary ?
let him come near to me. For now is the time
when my adversary shall be destroyed; and
those that walk in* the sparks of their own fire,
which is of anger being kindled by the devil, such
will be destroyed by the fire of my anger; be­
cause theirs is kindled by the fire of‘hell; but
those thaJL are, kindled by the fire of love shall
now be saved by the fire of my love.
“ And now come to the following chapter,
Isaiah liv.—“ Hearken to me, ye that follow after
righteousness; ye that seek the Lord, look unto
the rock 'whence ye are hewn, and to the hole of
the pit whence ye^are digged; look unto Abra­
ham your father, and unto Sarah that bare you;
for I called him alone, and blessed him, and in­
creased him.”
“ Now let tlie wisdom of the world appear,
And let the wise men answer here,
How the true Heirs can ever come ?
Is Abraham mentioned here alone ?
Did not the woman bear the Son
That they were all to look unto,
As well as Abraham, they must know ?
Because the rock it first was me :
1 gave them faith, you all may see ;
And in old age I gave a son,
To shew what 1 for faitii had done.
When their obedience had been tried,
It was to Abraham, 'tis applied,
That he should offer up that Son—
And in his heart the deed was done.
So there’s the promise at the first,
That in the end I’ll make it burst.
u So now the J ews they must appear
To own their mother mention’d here,
That I was born to set them free,
An Abraham’s promisefbr to see;
But does the promise stand alone ?
No : ’tis the woman bore the Son,
63
Digitized by Google ,
That tkey are bid to look unto*— '
1 speak to Gentiles and to Jews: . *
7 he mother she must first appear
To bring the I saac,*
—men, see clear ;
But after Isaac he was bound,
Know then a wife for him was found, *
To bring the Heirs I said I’d bies*,
And so on Jacob it should rest.
” These arc but shadows past and gone?
For, like the autumn, all became •
To have these leaves to fly away ;
The trees stript bare, you 411 do see.
And scarce a leaf doth now appear,
But what seem dead and wither’d here.
■ But 1 have told thee, like the spring,
These leaves $gain to man I'll bring; *
for they shall all bud out view,
And men shall find my words are true*
u The Estfus 1 shall all destroy;
The Jacob's I shall iioW'eAjoy;
And so the Josephs shall appear—
The banish’d prisoners now I'll clear;
Because my wonders shall come on—
1
'Pmh’st felt wy power, thou’st felt it strong,
Which is but cords of love to thee.
When thou wast filled with jealousy*
No God in power could now appear,
As in the Scripture’s mention’
d there,
;. The bowels q ( the earth to shake;
Because that way I said I'd break—
• f* For the pillars of heaven shall be shaken^
and the foundation of the earth shall tremble.
A part of this book is copied from the Sealed
Writings, and the remainder from answers given
by tho Spirit at the time when the- book was -wri­
ting, and taken from Joanna Sonthcott’s mouth
by me, Ann Underwood..
Witness, J ane Townley.
\ December 3, 1813.
' \ •
\
,v [Price One Shilling end Threepence.]
Digitized 4ay Qoogle-
