{"name":"The Answer Of The Lord To The Powers Of Darkness","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1813__southcott___the_answer_of_the_lord_to_the_powers_of_darkness.pdf","mytitle":"The Answer Of The Lord To The Powers Of Darkness","mylang":"de"}
f -*' /
• . v J .
■, .. ! I
'^ V
THE
ANSWER OF THE LORD
TO THE.
POWERS OF DARKNESS,
V
; ^k
-
Rr.
JOB, Chapter 1, V erse 7.
; f “ AND the Lord said unto Satan, whencecoraest
-> thou ? Then Satar*answered the Lord; and said,
From going, to- the earth, and from
,8. “ Satan, Hast thou
coftsidered my senjjtj^tjdjBfbr"that there is none like
him in the earth, a perfect and an upright man,
one&hat feareth G od, and escheweth evil ?”
’, 9.' “ Then Satan answered thg-LoRD, and saidk
Doth Job fear God for nooghtff^ .
10. “ Hast thou not made ah hedge about him,
and about his house, and about all that he hath
on every side ? Thou lust blessed the work of his
hands, and his substance is increased in the land.”
i 1. *
* But put forth thine hand now, ahd touch
all that he hath, and he will curse thee to thy fece.”
^ a ^
— —~ ;----- - -----------*--------------------— ------------------------------
3 to Second Edition printed in January, 1813, fay Morchant and Galabin.
(to o tiio Firat Edition, printed in November,. 1803.
-
N
O
lirnri'i^Oon^Ip
r
12. “ And the Lord said unto Satan, Behold* f
all that he hath is in thy power; only upon himself:
put not forth thine hand. So Satan went forth from,
the presence of the Lord.”
Chapter II.
P art o f verse S. “ And still he boldeth fast his
integrity,- although thou movedst me against him,
to destroy him without cause.”
4. “ And Satan answered the Lord, and said,
Skin for skin, yea, all that a man hath, will he
give for his life.”
5. “ But put forth thine hand now, and touch
his bone ana his flesh, and he will curse thee to
thy face,”
6. “ And the Lord said unto Satan, Behold* he
is in thy hand; but save his life.”
7. “ So went Satan forth from the- presence
of the Lord, and* smote Job with sore boils from
the sole of his foot unto his crown.”
Chapter XXXVIII.
[This whole chapter I mu^t desire to be read
through; for the w ordsthatShe Lord said unto
Job, He meant for the
Verse 11. “ Hitherto shM Q U M ftne, butlio.
farther: and here shall th^jgroud waves be stayed.”
Chapter XL. •. :
•
2. “ Shall he that contendeth with the Almighty
instruct him ? He that reproveth God, let him
answer it.”
REVELATION, Chapter XII.
10. “ And I heard a loud voice, saying in hea^
ven, Now is come salvation, and strength, and the
» kingdom ofour G o d, and the power of his Chri st>
for the accuser of our brethren is Cast down, which'
accused them before our God day and night.” j
Digitized by Google
U. u And they overcame him by the blood of
the Lamb, and by the word of their testimony : and
they loved not their lives unto the death.”
12. “ Therefore rejoice, ye heavens and ye that
dwell in them. Woe to the inhabiters of the earth,
and of the sea: for the devil is come down unto you
having great wrath, because he knoweth that ho
hath but a short time.”
13. “ And when the dragon saw that he was cast*
unto the earth, he persecuted the wotftan whfch
brought forth the man child.”
3
Here I was answered from the Book of Job—
*
*That as Satan disputed against Job, so he hath
against all men, and brought sore boils of affliction
upon all mankind. But there stands the type of
Satan’s fall; fur I said, there should his proud waves
be stayed. When the woman cometh to be tried
like the man, which you have in the Revelation of
St. John. The answer I gave Job was meant for
Satan: ibr I said, he that reproveth m e , let him
answer it. Job did not reprove m e , nor his friends;
for they simply thought they were pleading for their.
Cod. So I wasflmte-eproved by man, but .by Sa-
tan; who, after, Is^ke in Job’s wife, and Job re­
proved the devil in her. Now, in the woman I
am come to reprove Satan, and here shall his proud.
waves be stayed; forhitherto hath been my permis­
sion ; but further is my restraint; (that meaneth,
he was restrained from coming any further than
by temptations) for as I told thee in the beginning,
I now telf thee again, thy friends have been like
Job’s friends: because they could not account for
the manner of my strange directions to thee.
They are sometimes silent, and when they have
spoken,they havespoken wrong; because theycould,
not find out the council of the Lord, nor the
depth of Satan’s arts. But now be it known yn-
A 2
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
to thee and unto all men, with as many words
and ways as he came against Job, with so many
more he hath come against thee; therefore, I let
him try thee to the u t m o s t I let him tell thee
lies, to show him the sincerity of thy heart, that
thou wouldest not prophesy in my name, if thou
judgedst I had not spoken. But when thou wast
resolved to burn thy writings, as judging them not
to be of God, I convinced thee then, it was the
deyil that told thee lies to try thee, and what thou
wrotest at thy father's house shall shame both men
and devils. I'or now I am clear in judging and
will be just in condemning the unjust words o f
men and devils; and whether men will judge for
themselves or not, the truth shall be proved; the
seals shall be broken, and what thou hast vritteg-
at thy father’s house shall be made known^ JgfaF1
this year is ended by the Old Stile. I let it8tis!d4*p|
year, from the time thy-friends went to
search out the truth, to see if the barren minds*
will bear fruit or not: and i f they do not, within this
year, then will I cut down. If the thorn blossoms^
at Christmas, at Christmas my blossom shall appear. -
And every letter thou hast sent tot Po w ^ y , Moore/-
and Nutcombe, and other mir^stena^wdSt be made,
.public, and put in print with tneir nameS: and let
them be warned, that they may answer for them-?
selves if they will; and let them know it is the God
of the whole earth has commanded them; and let
those that reprove the Lord answer it; for now,
they shall know that I have spoken out of Zion,
and I will utter my voice in the midst of Jerusalem.
For I am the Lord God, ready for battle, and irty;
arm shall be strong in the midst of my peopw^t&t
a two-edged sword in my hand, the one to ctit
down the powers of darkness and the workers
thereof in high places; the other to cut down those
who deny the tulfilment of my Bible; therefore if-
they w ill not hear, andwillnot lay it to heart, to givjt
4
Digitized by L i O O Q l e
glory to my name, then I will send a curse amongst
them; but where two or three are gathered together
in my name, there will I be in the midst of them,
and bless them. The words 1gave thee, in answer
to those scriptures, were partly the answer of what
I said toJob, and meant to the devil; and all shaty
be answered him before I have ended here.
So now let men and devils love or fear,
lor now comes thefulfilment of the law*
And His men's love to'me, they now must show,
That when I come, 1 may find every name,
Written for me their Master, to proclaim.
And then Ho^anpa they may cheerful sing:
This is the way my Kingdom must come in.
But if these mysteries had been known before,
The Powers of Darkness would not so appear,
As in the wanner he to thee hath spoke;
Just like his words of Job, he thee did mpek: -
That over thee be surely could prevail.
And he could make thee to break every seal;
And then I told him instantly to go,
Exert bis power, that he in words could show ;
But not in person unto thoa appear,
Without my chosen shepherds being there:
And in their presence he refused to come,
Because he said thy God he dare condemn.
Then now thy God in power shall appear,
And in a voice of thunder answer here;
That it was 1 the strong foundation laid,
And I shall make him know from what he said,
That all his jesting he hath carried too far,
. And he shall find the God of truth is here.
That made a promise men for to redeem,
And bring the Revelation unto him.
‘ For every mystery I will there reveal,
Why I command her to put every seal, *
Which Satan boasted they should all bcbrole.
But further on he’ll feel the coming stroke:
But for the present 1 shall end it here,
And let the Scripture now to all appear;
And let my answer then to follow next,
And thou go on, as all to thee is fix'd/7
The texts from the Scripture I was ordered to
5
* Love is the fulfilment of th« law, #bich earns by the woman. Matt. x*U
V-SQ Rom. xiii. fi-10.
A.
Digitized by v ^ o o s l e
introduce I heard from i. minister, on the 22d o f
this month, August, 1802, who quoted them in his
sermon ; the text he began with was from M a t­
thew xviii. 20.
“ For where two or three are gathered together
in my name, there am I in the midst of them.”
He quoted in his 6ermon the following Scrip­
tures.
Malachi iii. Ifi. “ Then they that feared the
L o r d spoke often one to another: and the Lord
hearkened, and heard it, and a book of remem­
brance was written before him for them that feared
the L o r d , and that thought upon his name.”
17. “ And they shall be mine,saith the Lord of
hosts, in that day u'hen I make up my jewels;
and I will spare them as a man spareth his own
son that serveth him.”
Revelation viii. 3. “ And another angel came
and stood at the altar, having the golden censer:
and there was given unto him much incense, that
he should offer it with the prayers of all saints
upon the golden altar which ‘was before tire
throne.”
4. “ And the smoke of the incense, which came
with the prayers of the. saints, ascended up be­
fore God, out of the angel’s hand.”
These texts of Scripture, that he quoted, were
deeply explained to me, that they alluded to the
last days, though he did not apply them in any such
manner. And I was answered in the following
words:
6
“ Blind guides I see my shepherds be,
The days they don’t discern;
‘ The Scriptures that were spoke by he,
Show how you ought to warn :
The Prophets' words I soon shall clear;
For fast they're hastening on."
I shall not go through this explanation, for the
present; but I shall come to the purpose, when I
was answered in the following manner.
Digiti7firl hy Google •
* Now, Joanna, thee I'll answer—
Satan's followers will pursue;
But rilmake them know thy Master;
Like the chapters all will do.1
9
The one thou seest stand out for me,
With resolution strong;
The prayers of saints I know will be
Unto my Kingdom come.
For hasty here will all appear ;
My work is all in haste.
The Sealed Number first I'll clear,
And then my foes shall taste
The threatenings there that will appear,
And fast is hastening on :
You little think the day's so near,
That all these things will come.
I have begun with seven men,
As I began at first,
When I began in seven days,
And form'd him from the dust;
A helpmate there for him appear'd,
And so it must go on.
But now I'll answer Satan here,
And then I’ll answer man.
Did he begin for to condemn.
That I was not thy God ? f
Then to his word I bid him stand,
And tremble at his rod.
Did he declare his spirit there
' To be a whit like thine f
For so I bid him to appear,
And own my power divine :
My favours seek, in tears to weep,
As thou hast always done;
The practice of his hellish arts,
Like thee, I bid him shun,
And prove it so ; then he may go
Where'er his mind^doth lead ;
If he’ll hate sin, as thou hast done,
Repent of all he said ;
And bring a mind, like thee, to find
The ways of sin to hate;
Confess me God, and fear my rod,
He'll find my mercy's g r ea t!
So now like thee let Satan be,
And he shall neverfall ;
• A/ak v. 16. 17. Rev, viii. 3, 4. Matt, xviiu
t P*gc 6, Dispute between the Woman and the Powers of Darkness. The
reader js desired to refer to the pages alluded to in that book.
. 7
Digitized by Google
His past offencesI'll forgive, .
And bring in peace for all;
But if he’ll not, I'll tell bis lot;
My threatenings shall appears.
My anger, if be mind it not,
My vengeance he shall bear.
Did I come down from heaven's high throne,
And make a world below ?
Out of confusion all was made;
The Earth you do not know,
In what disorder all was found,
And darkness did appear:
I say there was no solid ground,
But all a chaos here.
But this to men I’ll now explain,
As thou dost not understand:
But near unto thy sister's house,* ;
Thou may'st the whole command.
A likeness there doth so appear, -
Thou know'st the ground doth shake;
And so did all the globe appear,
When I began to take
The cause in hand, and formed man,
Out of the native dust;
Then solid ground I made the land,
And Earth in order plac'd.
The grass to grow, you all shall know, *
Was quickly form'd by me;
Then I created living beasts,
And form’d the lofty trees.
As men began to multiply, .
’ Their talents I improv'd; ,
And so I made the raging sea, . - ^
And bounds I set of love. ,
The dry land here that doth appear
Must perish with its drought, ■
If I the clouds had not prepar’d
To come from heaven's height
The sea to draw, you all shall know,
To wet the barren ground :
For barren soon must be all below
If that no rain was found.
For all shall see the rain's from me ;
And when I don't appear, '
Your scorching fields you soon do see,
How all do wither here.
3
A piece of ground at the foot of a hill, near a spring of water, which was
td a soddy place, or bog— When any person puts his foot upon the edge,
whole ground shakes for a quarter of an acre. In wet weather it is
nblcv,
Digitized by Google
So barren ground to man was found,
When [ kept back my rain; '
A fazftiue in the land was found— .
Be wise, ye sons o f m en ;
Survey, survey your every land,
And see how all do grow ;
Without my rain there’s none can stand;
The scorching sun, you k*ow,
Would soon burn up your every hope,
And barren ground appear.
The pride of men must surely drop,
'If Satan conquers here.
I ask, what earth can he bring forth,
With all his boasted pride ?
For the foundation of the earth
By mb was surely laid; '
The foaming billows I did place,
And they their bounds do know;
But soon they must destroy this earth,
If I their bounds let go.
For in my hand they all doN
stand,
And I’ve set bounds for all;
And the proud waves I can command.
That backward they must fall.
Wave after wave do often come,
And the rude seas appear;
But ’tis by my powerful hand
That they, the shore do fear;
Because my bounds to them are found.
They can no further go;
Andperfect so shall hell be bound,
And that they all shall know'.
Wave after wave may hasten on,
Like raging seas appear; 7
But know, the shore is fix’d for M a n .
And 'the proud Tyrant there
Must surely stop his every hope, ‘
I made a shore for M a n ;
And by the raging o f the seas;
I’ve show’d you Satan’s plan;
How he will swell in rage from hell,
B ut shall not break the tid e ;
Like foamipg billows he will swell,
lik e angry seas applied.
So now see plain, ye sons of men, „
What lies before your view—
Can the proud seas your lives contain,
If I their bounds let go ?
.9
Digitized by Google
Can they keep up your every hope,
If I destroy the land f
Without ray rain can you contain ?
Be wise, and understand,
There's not a thing on earth is seen
But I created a il;
And if I do give op ray reign,
Just like the seas must fall.
Then how can ye preserved be,
What pleasures are there there ?
No more from Satan can there be
Than in the seas appear.
No qorn nor wine you there can find,
No solid place of rest;
I form'd the seas, I form'd the land,
To show how both were plac'd.
The rain's from me, you all may see,
Survey your every land ;
The cedars and the lofty trees
Were planted by my hand;
Your gardens and your gallant walks
Were surely plac'd by me ;
Talents I have given to men,
That all improv'd might be.
There's not a worm on earth below,
But 1 did create at first;
There is no wisdom men can show,
But all from mb doth burst.
So now see clear, my hand is hese;
Survey this earthly ground ;
v If ought like Satan doth appear,
It must in the seas be found s
That is to swell in rage from helf,
Like angry seas applied;
Like foaming billows he doth swell,
That’s rolling like the tide;
Unto the shore be would appear
To show bis raging pride.
But now see plain, ye sons of men,
His power can be no more
Than is the raging of the seas,
If you stand safe on shore:
But if you come to voteJar kintf
Then launch into the deep :
And if you footing there can find,
Then Satan7
9 kingdom ktep”
10
Digitized by Google
AnAnswer to what is written inthe Seventh,Eighth,
and Ninth Pages: Satan’s Friend having said,
they were cast out of Heaven for being of a
cheerful spirit.—Answered by the Lord in the
following manner:
*
*Thou lying fool, before thy God appear,
And boldly answer, if i cast thee there
To have a spirit ever like my Son ?
For here’s the likeness thou dost now condemn.
Proud Lucifer, I tell thee ’twas not so;
And of tby lies I’ll make thee feel and know :
For no such reason did 1 cast thee there,
But for thy pride and envy thou show’dst here;®
When I familiar with thee did begin,
Then too much freedom instantly was seen;
Above thy Maker thou didst then appear,
And swell’d with pride, thou could’st not conquer there.
The heavenly host, thou soon didst draw away,
And all my angels thou thoughtest to betray:
And so thou thought*st to sit supreme, a king
Above thy God, and didst comdemn my Son,
As one inferior to thy haughty pride:
And to the woman thou hast all belied.
Like Jezebel, did all thy ways appear,§
- Who stole the Seal, the angels to ensnare;
And then my Son thou thought’st to steal on high,
And make the rebel angels him defy.
Like Naboth's vineyard was thy every claim,
And sons of Belial with thee thou didst gain,
To steal my vineyard, aftl claim all thy own;
And that’s the way I did them all unthrone;
And that’s the way from heaven thou was! cast,
Because, like Jezebel, thy rage did burst,
That thou could’st not unthrone my only Son,
That, like myself, in Spirit both was one.
But, further on, I’ll show thee now the way,
How all thy hellish arts in heaven did He;
And then I’ll tell thee why I rais’d thee up,
And now I’ll tell thee why I’ll make thee drop.
As nought but lies in thee did first appear,
And nought but lies, I say, thou’st spoken here;
And from tby mouth I now condemn thee there.
* He had the same ptide and mischief in heaven, which is proved by bis com
duct on earth.
$ Forged lies when in heaven, todelude theeogpll te fenake tbotiQod*
11
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
Thou c&nst not say the thing came e’er from me :
’Twas thy own heart that first enticed thee,
To pride and malice, and to every ill.
And in rebellion thou the heavens didst fill.
So, foolishly thou canst not charge thy God;
But now I’ll make thee tremble at my rod.
And thou shalt surely find thou art undone :
And to thy very words I now shall come,*
And ask what evil spirit loved thee,
That thou With Satan didst so much agree,
By every art that thou to her hast spoke ?
And now I’ll make thee tremble at the stroke;
For all thy jesting thou hast carried too far ; .
And all thy power I'll make it to appear; : ^
And all thy arts to men are now made known,; •
And all thy hellish lies before them shown ;
Forward and backward thou in lies didst go ; i<: ^*
And now I’ll mike, the tremble at the blow.
Unless to Ml thou "humbly now submit,
Confess thy guik, and now repent of it; ^ 4 ^ f
And all thy witchcraft thou wilt throw aside/
That by thy hellish arts arc here applied: / J{
For, as thou’st spoke into the woman's ear,f **^
I know in man thou daily dost appear, ^ * ,
With every subtle art to lead astray; ..**-**
Aft in this page thy subtly art! do Tie; *
’ ^
And tempt them daily for to leave Ukeir God, ^ " 8
And full as many way? before them show'd 1
flow they in earthly grandeur all n
And so thoit &tx>’st and foblfst tjm
That I at first created from th$gtini
And from thy very words, I say, thou’rt
Unless thou’lt promise to renounce iheha ^
And a new life thou instantly wilt caB.^ \
For, as thou eay’st,~tb60 artbut ^t$u#frfeij^r
To vindicatethy maVer thoufrt ifcfft; 1:
1*
And with thy tom erl do Mdj
Art thou hrffriendt then now
For, as thou’st threatened, ^
Unless thou ins&ht ttirn’st J ~ ~ .
And act thyself as thou td h tf ^ s ir a y . ‘
Confess thyself, that all tb&tftt dipneis
Renounce tW master, andrbreak ,
That tfatffWn’
nioft with thy f o M V & b & P 'i: -
bjf ^ ,
* BMd{Mge9, Di^Wtcwith the I^NaWDKkMM. . ..
Digitized by Google
And that hit ways thou dost them all despise.
Thou seest thy folly, and thou’rt grown more wise
And all thy friends persuade them now the same,
And say, thy guilt and folly thou dost blame ;
Because thou now dost see that all is wrong.
I've show’d thee mercy, and I've show'd it longt
But now, I tell thee, Til show it no more;
I tell thee that thy shipwreck's near the shore.
For here rhy foaming did toss mountains high ;
Close to the woman thou didst surely fie ;
And now, I tell thee, i'll lie close to thee ;
Look back to Pharaoh, there thy ruin see,
And from thy mouth condemned thou shaft be.
Thou sayest, be still and know that i am God ;
Then thou should st stop, ami never one pursu'd,
When that my chosen vessels I diet seal;
And to the woman did my mind reveal,
That whosoever would with her should coma.
I’ve seen the afflictions of my people long;
Heavier and heavier is the burden made,
The tale of bricks, but straw is now denied.
Then now their burden I Will surely free;
The blood upon the door-posts now shall be
Of every house, whereon I put my seal—
And now the mysteries I to all reveal:
Where'er the Second Star it doth appear,
Sealed with the zcomans hand, I tell thee here,
If e'er thou aimest one for to molest,
I tell thee, Satan’s Friend, thou'rt surely cast.
Thou sayest, my wisdom k was in the deep—
And there, like Pharaoh, thou wilt find the pit;
If thoir, like Pharaoh, ever dost pursue,
I say, like PharAoh, that shall'be thy doom.
So now be still, and know that 1 am God,
Or else I'll make thee tremble at my rod ;
For &
U thy chariot wheels I’U now take off;
I'll be a wall to them that do not scoff,
To gain protection from the woman’s hand,
Who did so boldly for her Master stand.
As Moses, did with Pharaoh, to contend,
You'll find a Moses, and you’ll find a Friend,
As Miriam did with Moses then appear:
You'll find a Moses and a Miriam here.
For, I'm the M oats, every soul shall see,
And here’s the Miriam testifies of m i :
And now before you lies the promis'd Land.
It was but tkadvwe Moses did command;
Because the stronger Pharaoh he was there;
But now the substance I'lt'begin to dear:
13
Digitized by Google
For Satan is the Pharaoh that now is tried.
By whom my children they are ail denied.
As a free people he’ll not lei them go;
But now a M osis he shall surtly know
Doth in the camp of Israel appear;
And all shall know a Prophetess is here,
I say, like Mirianr now shall be applied.
And mark that Moses said his tongue was tied,
That he a spokesman could not be at all—
Miriam and Aaron, now behbld your call.
But this Tm speaking to the sons of men,
That ye may now awake and see it plain;
For now, like Moses, I will sure go o n ;
And now a spokesman I have found in man,*
For to deliver all that I do speak :
Twas but a shadow at that time did break;
' But now the substance every one shall see;
For I’m the Moses, and conceal'd from ye ; •
And Satan is the Pharaoh now become;
And here’s the spokesman 1 shall make of man.
Because a Miriam doth in thee appear,
And now my pleading every soul shall hear,
How I with Satan shortly shall begin.
But know, as yet thou art not come to him;
But then, I say, thQu'lt hear a different sound;
Like Pharaoh’s witchcraft will his friends abound.
For now, I tell thee, he will follow on,
And on many he will be working strong;
Because their wisdom they pretend to boast;
And there, I tell thee, every soul is lost,
That on their wisdom they will now rely;
Like Pharaoh’s witchcrafts, Satan’s arts wilt fly ;
For hasty alter he will now pursue,
And roirui les, I tell thee, now he’ll do.
To work by witchcraft in the sinner’s heart,
Thou little know’st the way he’ll fix his dart.
Wave after wave, I. tell thee, will come on,
The raging seas v
, ,1 now be known to man;
But, Oh, my friends ! if you stand safe on shore,
The raging 4f the seas you need not fear;
Because the seas I surely shall divide,
And, in the Pillar now myself 1’U hide.
A Light before my people now I’ll go,
And be a Wall to them* they all shall know ; .
14
•Alluding to her friends copying the communications, which she reeds from
ber own writing, and which no other person whatever can read.
Digitized by L r O O Q l e
That now lUcoIsrael if they do appear,
They'll find a Moses and a Saviour here.
That now is come my people to redeem:
1 am the Fountain, and the living Stream ?
I am the Rod that shall the Seas divide;
I am the Pillar that from you is hid :
And, 'tis by Faith the Light you alt must see ;
For unbelief in thousands now will be,
And will pursue, like Pharaoh's haughty host,
And of their knowledge they’ll pretend to boast.
And so with Pharaoh they will now pursue;
But in the deep their madness they will know ;
Because their wheels, I say, will ruu too fast;
I mean their wisdom will like fury burst,
To judge the Seas I never can divide—
“ O, where's the Moses, to bring back the tide ?
u The fall of man," they'll say, “ for to redeem ?
u The Promis'd Land," they'll say, 4
< how can we gain ?"
And so men's faith they'll try for to keep back,
With all the rage of hell that now can break.
But this, thou say'st, is madness to believe, ^
That men will wish ever to sit and grieve,
Oppressed wsth burdens so', by Satan's power;
Thou judg'st that all with joy should see the hour,
To have their burdens all be took.away;
Men should rejoice to see the glorious day,
That Man's Redemption nearly now is come,
And .the fulfilling of the Promise made to Man.
Now I shall answer in plain words. The deliver­
ance of the Children of Israel, bringing them out.
of Egypt into the Promised Land, was a type of.
the Last Days—Pharaoh was a type of the Devil—
Now as Pharaoh’s magicians used witchcraft to.
blind the eyes of the Egyptians, that they might
not believe that the miracles Moses wrought were
from the Lord; so Satan will work in the hearts of
men, to prophesy the same as th%True Prophets
of G o b ; and some of their prophecies will come
true, as the Magicians’ miracles came some of them
like the miracles of Mpses. For Satan has worked
in men, who have prophesied out of their own
hearts, and have seen nothing; yet some things
may come true without the spirit of prophecy;
ana many false Prophets are gone out in the world,
by the arts of Satan, working in men, that the true
15
Digitized by Google
Prophets may not be believed. But let them trace
the manner of Prophecies, they will find that the
Prophecies of the Lord, like Moses’s Rod, will
swallow up the rest. For, it is not all the Pro­
phecies Satan can invent, nor all the arts of earth
and hell, can bring their Prophecies to the Bible,
as this is ; and men who have a right and true
faith in God, and weigh the whole together, they
will see it is like Moses’s Rod, that swallowed up
all the others ; ami confess, that none but a G od
could prophesy in such a manner; and they wilt
be like the children of Israel, who dipped the
hysop in the Blood of the Lamb, and struck the
lintels of their door-posts, when the destroying
Angel went through their land : that meaneth, they
will be led by faith to believe, that their being
sealed m il be as great a protection to them, as stri­
king the door-posts was to the children of Israel.
Rut now I shall come to the purpose. When
Moses disputed with Pharaoh, it was man dispu­
ting with man, visible to each other ; and now
the shadow is brought to the substance : it is Sa­
tan, instead of Pharaoh, that is now to be cast;
tt*Mf it must be a Spiri tual Mosks, and not a
. tttftpof'al one, to cast him. But, as Satan's words
dft K
m record, so shall my answer, which is the
tnswer of the Lord. It begins at the twenty-first
answered backward.*
N ow , Satan, here thy God his silence breaks ;
From heaven’s high courts to thee I now do speak,
A sa ll thy words are laid before my view,
And in this pag^thou sayest, 'tis Gpd thou’stknoVv,
T hat guides my servant, &nd directs her hand ;
Then now 1 bid thee trembling for to stand*
If in one word thou answer'st m s again,
Thou wilt see my power to increase thy pain :
And backward now to all thy arts 1*11 corae.f
Didst thou not tell her, hell was sure her doom,
* See pag.eSl, Dispute between tfye Woman and the Powers ofDarkness; to
which book the Reader is desired (o refer, whenever the page is quoted*
.t From the Fall
16
Digitized by Google
If mv command she dat’d for to obey.
Look back and see how all thy arts ao lie:
Yet in these threatenings thou the same shalt see;
In thy own manner now I’ll answer thee :
Thou say’st, my servant that thou would’st compel,
With all the armies thou hast got in hell,
To take her life, if she would not comply ;
Then, Satan, stand and hear what I do say:
With all the armies I have got above,
I’ll now defend all those that me do love ;
And thou shalt shortly see my mighty power,
And all thy host I shortly will devour;
And see, if thou canst be a king supreme,
By all thy hellish host that thou didst gain,
First by temptations, that were full of lies.
Look back and see when thou in heaven didst rise,
With pride and envy, and in rage didst swell,
Because the heavens thou could’^tnot all compel
To worship thee, that thou might’st be supreme.
Look back and see how here thou hast laid thy train :
And know, in heaven thou laid’st it just the same,
And said’st, thy wisdom was supreme to mine;
And so, thou said’st thou hadst the greatest power,
And by thy arts the angels didst devour,
To draw from glory and the highest bljss;
Thou promised*st happiness that now they’ll miss.
For as they judg’d thou wast the wisest king,
And thought in wisdom thou didst me outshine;
For, as thou’st pleaded with the woman here,
Thou know’st in heaven thou surely didst appear;
In all that manner did thy fury go,
Thou swelPdst the angels with deceit, I know',
To tell them plainly thou hadst power supreme,
And falsely told them they should pleasures gain,
If in their hearts they would but worship thee:
And so my angels thou didst draw away.
And, by thy aits, thou sayest I was unjust,
When out of heaven thou by me was! cast;
For, like .tty pleading with the woman here,
Thou and'thy angels daily did appear,...
Until to theteaten thou didst then begin.
And well thou know’st I cast thee for that thing;
And'then together you did all agree
To plead against the just decrees of me/
In the same manner thou hast spoken here,
Thou, and tty angels they did so appear,
•"When cast out of bmven, the same sentiments prevailed am tag the fallen
ngels, that God was unjust, as at this day.
£
17
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
To say, no mercy, nor no truth's in me ;
Then now their rock 1 bid them for to see.
For as the seventeenth page it doth appear,
I tell thee, Satan, was thy pleading there,
That thou hast wisdom greater than their God ;
And now thy wisdom shall to all be know’d ;
For, by thy wisdom I did raise thee up,
And by thy wisdom now I'll make thee drop.
Because together you did aU agree,
That Satan was a wiser king than me;
And of my mercies you did all condemn;
Because I would not let the eavens become
In thy confusion, and a perfect hell;
As in thy heart thy malice it did swell,
To make the heavens in confusion there.
And now the mysteries I to man shall clear:
To gain my honour, then I rais’d him up,
And as a king on earth I let him drop ;
And from the dust I then created Man;
And gave him power for to lay his plan,
To be a king in power for to reign;
I gave him subjects he by arts could gain ;
To shew his power I let him to go on,
To see what heaven he would make for man.
As they all judg’d the fittest king he’d be,
And thought the greatest pleasure was in he;
Then to their wisdom I did give all up ;
And to their wisdom now they all shall drop;
Because my honour I will gain it here;
To Satan’s justice now shall all appear.
If he’s a king in power now supreme,
Let him create an Earth, and subjects gain;
For now my justice shall be tried by man ;
He hath had his power, and he hath had
And of his power men do still complain,
And say he is a king not fit to reign.
For such a king they do not want him here;
And men like angels they do now appear,
To have this prince be banish’d from his throne*
For Reprobation is begun by Man;
Then now Electionyou shallsurety see ;
And to hisjustice 1 will now agree.
For to his justice now the fool shall stand ;
I rais’d him u p ; they all had me condemn’d:
As in these writings he’th condemn’d me here.
And now the mysteries I to man shall clear :
A Hell for Satan I did make at first;
For in themselves nothing but hell did burst;
18
JDigitized by Google
For pride and malice, envy and debate,
For Satan’s.fury did the others heat;
And to themselves 1 banish’d them alone *
But from these pages must their words be known ;
The twenty-second must be seen by man.
And there my mercies they did all comdemn :
And said, a Devil now he’d surely be,
And all the angels they should join with he,
In blasphemy, he said, against their God,
And dar’d the angels tor to say one word
In praise of heaven, or lament their fall.
For now the mysteries must be known to all,
How he the fallen angels did compel
To worship him, as they from heaven fell.
And dar’d them ever murmur in a word,
And boldly told them they should feel his rod;
Which made the fallen angels to submit,
And they did tremble at their leader’s feet.
For, as the twenty-thirdpage doth appear,
And whining Devils he aid call them there;
Because their folly they did so lament:
And some,, 1 know, they surely did repent,
That heavenly pleasures they did ever leave,
And said, the devil did them all deceive.
But then he boldly answer’d them again,
That my protection they could never gain,
And that in pieces them he’d surely tear,
And by his threatening* made them for to fear ;
And told them heroes they would surely be,
If they in spirit then would join with he,
And all the power of their God defy;
Then he would praise them for their company.
For as the twenty-fourth page appears;
He asked what greater power they could fear.
If he was with them, always to protect.
He asked, what greater power did they expect ?
And so his merits he would make them plead,
As thou dost Christ’s. Remember what he said.
For as the twenty-fifthpage doth appear,
God was unjust, he surely told them there;
And that their tongues they should not run so fast, ‘
Because a discord in them all did burst;
When from the heavens they were hurried down,
I say, confusion in them all was found.
* Here it easily understood the origin of Hell. The arm of Divine Power,
to secure the society of the just in wisdom and happinem, cast out the infernal^
and compels them to be confined in their own hellish anion. And when thm
kingdom of heaven comes on earth, the infernal host most be cast and chained?
thftt Man may be in heavenly anion with God and his Angels.
B 2
19
Digitized by Google
so
And as the twenty-sixth page doth appear
Was Satan's pleadings with his angels there.
When out of heaven they at first were cast,
He, in that manner, on the angels burst,
And told them plainly God did act unjust,
" T o have sogi eat a king as he was cast,
" Whose mighty power from his menorb did come;
ft And by his power he had created them;
,f And therefore, they should worship him supranc”
Like all his pleadings here he did contend
With all the angels that did then repent,
That they tojoin with him did e'er consent;
Then of his power he as much did boast,
And made them all confess, " G od wusunjust,
" Not for to let him reign upon his throne,
" With all the angels he did call his own.”
So he by threatenings got ail on his side,
And all the justice of their God denied j
And all together said, 1 was unjust j
And all condemned their God tor being cast. ^
But as the Devil, thou throughout didst blame,* •
Just so my heavenly angels did the same. >
But further on I shall direct the way, i
And tell thee how his subtle arts did lie. I
*
For as the Fourth Day il doth appear, ^ -
I tell the^ so was Satan's pleading there,
With etfery blasphemy against his God, f '
That by the angels he was overthrow’d :
They and their M a ker he did so blaspheme, *
When that the fallen angels he did gain,
By all his threatenings to stand by his side. ^
And here's the bill that now must be applied,
That he brought in against the Saviour there ;
Because with me the Crown he so did share; >
And Satan said, “ that I did cast him down ;
" From his own orb he said his power was found f
" For never was it given him by MF.”f 1
And so together they did all agree,
That sure unjustly I had cast him there;
In heaven with me he ought for to appear,
And in my heaven to reign supreme a king ;
And so his wisdom unto all wras seen, *
To judge their Maker he was all unjust; 1
And so the bill against me it was ca*t.
So by their bill, I surely rais'd them up;
And by their bill the leader now shall drop.
- ; ;• ? *
* Joanna. t Satan denies Lcin^ formed of God.
Digitized by Google
As to the Angels he did then appeal,
If I in justice to them did not fail
His mighty power for to overthrow ;
And now myjustice he shall feel and know.
If he began a mighty king in heaven
For to oppose the laws that I had given,
And as a fiery serpent did appear,
I ask him how his “ Golden Orb” came there ? .
Or how he breath'd in it the Breath of Life ?
I soon created man to end the strife;
And of this world I made him lord below,
And all to Adam I did surely show,
That every thing 1 had given unto n an.
And now unto the Serpent I shall come,
And ask him, how he came a Prince below,
If I nojustice unto him did show ?
To give him power for to try his reign,
How he would act, where he could subjects gain ?
And where his power I let him to show,
From Cain and Abel, I shall let him know,
That he a murderer instant did begin;
Because his power o'er man in Cain was seen;
And so his brother he did instant slay :
But Abel’s blood for Vengeance now doth lie,
To show the power of the boasted king.
And do they think such murderer I shall screen,
To ha^c the heavens in murder to appear?
Like Cain and Abel must it all been there,
If 1in heaven had e'er given him a seat,
After his pride and malice swell'd so great:
No ; as the earth he surely did make mourn,
Just so the heavens he'd in disorder turn.
But as the angels, that with him did fall,
Judg'd mk unjust—and so they judg'd me all;
Then, to convince them I did raise him up ;
To gain my honour, let the fool to stop,
*Till I a heavier bill had brought them here;
And so my justice I that way shall clear,
To gain my honour over Satan's host,
And show their king, that they so much did boast;
And now their king I'll show his reign in men,
Where I let Satan guide their every hand.
But first a king 1 liken'd him to Saul,J^£
When free from pride, I now do tell you all;
Or little in his eyes he did appear,
I gave him power he could never bear,
To see a David after him to come,
With his ten thousands; this brought on his doom*
21
'Digitized by G o o g l e
l2
*2
To have the kingdom then be rent from he.
And so in heaven, he then was cast from me,
As he a humble David did despise.—
Weigh deep jour Bibles now and grow more wise t
Because from kings and queens you now shall see
The very way the end of all wilf be.
And now from Pharaoh I will here begin ;
And now like Pharaoh Satan’s host shall end;
Because, like Pharaoh’s host, they all are tried;
And here’s a mystery now must be applied:
Like Pharaoh’s task-masters he does appear,
To burden men with sins they cannot bear.
One on the other now do lay the load,
By Satan’s arts is every footstep trod ;
And yet, like Pharaoh, Satan Joes complain,
And daily doth accuse the sons of men,
That my command by man is not obey’d—
Like Pharaoh’s words are Satan’s witchcrafts laid:
For all his arts he so does work in men,
To have the perfect truth took all from them.
For by their shepherds now I well do know,
They give them stubble, and deny them straw.*
Because the day of vengeance they’ve applied
To be to man; but Satan they've denied
To be the author of their every guilt;
That he has laid the burden all havefelt,
By every art to tempt mankind to sin ;
And close upon them daily he hath been;
And this, I said, should fall upon his head.
But, O, my shepherds! how is’t now you’ll plead ?
These promises for man you takeaway,
And every burden you on man do lay,
Which I, by Satan’s arts have here applied;
And if the truth by you is now denied.
Then now I’ll call you to a strict account,
And tell your sins, and how they all amount;
That ye as idle shepherds do appear;
My Laws or Gospel you don’t seek to dear; ’
But say, your sheep are going all astray,
And judge they are wandering in a crooked way ;
And yet, you say you will not call them back;
I ask you, how you’ll answer for your flock ?
As many shepherds 1 by her have tried,
And yet by every one I am denied !
* The preachersdenounce the punishment of God upon their flock, hot omit
his promised blessings, that are now at hand, and most come on with the de­
struction of Satan’s power.
Digitized by t ^ o o Q l e
Because, of Shepherds I have got but Three,
And neither one qf them was warn’d by she.
No ; they themselves as shepherds did begin
To hear their Master’s voice, andcopy him—
“ To kuow the truth, we will go down and see
" Whether it prov’d as it is come to we.”
Then now in me you may see these Three Men,
To know they’re Three, and they agree in One.
Then here you’ll findis the True Shepherd’s voice,
Whom all mankind shall know, I’ve made my choice
To be the Rock to build my Church upon.
And to my shepherds first I mean to come,
And then with Satan I shall next go on.
For now, you all shall find a Moses here;
My children’s burden now I’m come to clear;
And their task-masters, I do daily see,
Increase their load; but now their load I’ll free :
And they shall now possess the promis’d land.
When I made Adam in my likeness stand,
Lord of this earth I made him here below ;
This earth I promised him, you all do know ;
But then a Pharaoh hasty did arise,
Who all my chosen people did despise;
He daily tried to take their grace away;
And yet against them was his sore complaint,
That they were sinners all with one consent.
So he to tempt them all his mind was bent,
And so by sin he did increase their load;
Yet all the blame on them was surely throw’d :
As in my Bible you do plainly see,
The great accuser of mankind was he.
So now, ye shepherds, ’wake, and see it clear,
Satan like Pharaoh he did first appear,
With every art of sin, to burden men,
And robb’d them of the grace was given them ;
And yet, against them he doth still complain,
That they are sinners. Judge, ye sons of men,
How many ways with Job he did appear,
And every way he did condemn him there;
And every way he always does the same,
And much like Pharaoh all his ways I’ll name;
And now like Pharaoh he shall sure be cast.
And will you, shepherds, be like Pharaoh’s host ?
And of your goodness will you proudly boast ?
That all the fault lies surely inyour sheep?
From his temptations you yourselves don't keep;
Then now I’ll answer you, ye sons of men,
I’ve sought for shepherds, but Tvc notfound one
23
Digitized by Google
That act according to my Gospel here,
As I commanded Peter to appear,
And as 1 bid you copy after me.
But now, ye Shepherds, you your folly see;
You have not acted according to my law.
I ask you where I did your likeness show r
If any one did e'er appeal to mf,
Did 1 refuse to hear what they should say ?
Or did I empty turn them once away,
Before I granted them their full request,
That came to me and any favour ask'd ?
Weigh well my Gospel and my Bible deep;
You'll see, you shepherds, you are likeyour sheep,
Oppress’d together in Egyptian load;
And by temptations, all iorsake their God ;
For all the grace from you is took away ;
And nought but stubble doth before you lie;
And all my altaryowhave broken down;
Refus'd my servant—tremble at the sound!*
And so you're under the Egyptian's load—
And now let Pharaoh tremble at his rod ;
Since he so boldly now hath tempted man,
That sheep nor shepherds by his arts can stand:
For here, like Jezebel, he stole the seal.—
And now another mystery I'll reveal:
'Twas Satan’s arts that work’d on Pomeroy’s mind
To seal the letter Bruce's death did bind ;
As by the letter Bruc e's faith drew back ;t
And justice then must make him feel the rack^
Because his death that way it must appear,
He could not be fit for my kingdom here.
24
• Joanna was refused the sacrament, by a elegyman at Exeter, because
she would be faithful to her vistation.
t A letter was sent by a Minister of Exeter to the late Mr. Basil Bruce, which
was one of the rarious causes of his sicrilicing his faith of the divine authority
of Joanna's writings. That letter, with the united efforts of persons who call
themselves friends to Mr. Brothers, one of whom, in particular, destroyed his
own character as a gentleman, without considering his duty as a Christian, went
so far as to tell the afflicted widow, that the death of her husband was from
the judgment oi God, on account ofhis belief in these writings. (This person,
who is a man ol good property, has however done honour to himseii, by his
steady, unshaken friendship to Mr. Brothers.) Others also were instigated by all
the arts of Satan to do the same, and made no scruple to wound her feelings,
by letters and other means, that her faith anfl peace might be destroyed toge­
ther. They have not even stopped here; forthey conveyed lies to Mr. Brothers
to cause Atmto attack her. These sons of Belial have exercised every means
for Satan to possess the whole vineyard, and their success has been too fatal.
Mr. Brother* has also been much injuried by such friends: and were these hell­
ish arts to succeed, his life must terminate in a mad-housc. But God is just.
Digitized by G o o g l e
And so his vineyard Satan soon did gain,
And sons of Belial did the same maintain.
And so I tell thee he did rob all there;
And now to take possession thou seest clear,
By unbelief hedoes possess (hewhole ;
And now, like Jezebel, shall be his fall;
As every vineyard he hath tried to gain,
And every grace’he’s taking now from men ;
That all is under the Egyptian’s yoke:
And now, like Pharaoh, he shall feel the stroke.
These evil spirits shall come out of man,
And, like the swine, be choaked in the sand;
For now I am not come before my time,
And that the Tempter he shall surely find;
Because my shepherds he has so betray’d
To be dumb dogs, as I before have said ;
Like hirelings, that car’d not for the sheep ;
They saw the wolf, afcd so they fled from it;
Because the wolf did to them all appear,
With every art, as hehath spoken here;
And so my shepherds he hath all betray’d ;—
1 have but three where I restraint have laid ;
That is, to keep them from the tempter’s power:
And they with me shall see the glorious hour ;
Because their spirits I before did know ;
Salt was in them, andsalt they now do show.
But now with Salan I shall here begin :
I’ve seen the burdens of the sons of men ;
In every age I’ve seen it, that was past;
And now iny fury shall upon him burst.
For as a king, I let him to appear ;
And now his reign let men and devils fear;
Because his reign I’ll show it now' in kings;
And like their ruin I his now shall bring.
And from the thirtieth page I shall appear,
And to men’s conscience let them answer here,
If I in justice do not him condemn:
And unto men of sense I now shall come,
And ask them, I f 1 have not tried his reign ?
He hath pour’d out fury on the sons of men.
And now the thirty-first page let them see;
How he hath condemn’d the just decrees of me,
To let my Son to suffer for Man’s sake !
But how their cause could I so undertake,
Had I not come and beena judge below
Oi all the sufferings they did undergo ?
25
%
Digitized by C i O O Q l e
And their temptations I did allgo through,
That all the arts of Satan I might know;
And how in Herod he did so appear,
A nd all the children he destroy’d them there;
Because he would destroy the Son of G o d .
But now, O Satan, tremble at his rod;
The rod of Herod now on thee shall fall:
And now thy children I’ll destroy them all ;
A Herod’s murder now shallfall on thee,
And all thy angels now destroy’d shall b e:
And all that flee to me I will enjoy.
Ye simple shepherds, now you must appear
And prove my Gospel you can never dear, '
That 1 did then fulfil it at that tim e:
N o, no; the mysteries they arc yet behind* .
I ask, what Gin did in my hand appear ?
I ask, what wheat I then did gather there ?
.
I ask, what chaffthat I did then destroy ?
Or how my kingdom they did then enjoy, < .
That John did tell them it was nigh at hand?
Be wise, my shepherds now, and understand
That all my Gospel I must now fulfil.
And now let Satanjudge this as he w ill;
As my Disciples they did die with me,
And Satan’s triumph he did surely see,
To see the children murder’d for ray sake ;
And in Herodias he did strongly break,
To have my Prophet John beheaded there.
But now my second Coming let him fear;
For I will as much fulfil my oath to thee,
As ever Herod did fulfil to she.
So now , ye simple shepherds and unwfce,.
Let all my Gospel lie oefore your eyes: . ,
And judge if you do think I came below u ;
To let the devil all his malice show, r 1
And as he said, " afoolfo r to submit,9
*' x
To lay my life and brethren at his feet, . /■
'.[
Had I not had the vengeance in my hearty,
Back on the tempter then to turn the dart. -
For how could I in tiiumphever come,
To turn the day of vengeance back on men,.
When every one of thpn it surely dead?
And so my vengeance .on them then was hid-
But did I die for to destroy^nan 1 ,
Ye simple shepherds, how you’ve laid yoqrplan
Know, if I came, as Satan said, afool,
To give him power in men’s hearts to nde*
That he in envy triumph’d over me ;
1 tell you all, I’m come to conquer he, /
26 *
Digitized by Google
2 7 ,
But as he said ho never made the bonds,
And therefore to them he will never stand;
Then to his wisdom I will now submit,
And the Fifth Da^s Dispute shall finish it.
So now to judge him, let the world appear.
He saith, already they have judg'd him here;
And of his ways, he saith, they do approve ;
Then look to Herod; who his ways did love,
When all the children he did there destroy,
His hellish malice then for to enjoy ?
And next unto Herods I shall come,
And ask what pleasure then he brought to man,
To have the damsel dance before the king,
And John the Baptist’s head the music bring?
Then now his hk ad shall music bring to all;
For perfect so shall Satan feel the fall;
And thy petition the world will now approve,
And say, (*that this is music we do love;
tr 'Tis heavenly music sounding in our ears,
For Death and Hell have always been our fears,
u That made us gloomy and in sorrow go ;
u In Satan's fetters he nad bound us so,
“ That we sat moping, and our hearts were sad,
“ But now’s the time our King will make us glad.
u No bloody Herod we have now to fear;
u But now a Hero in our Saviour dear;
4t Because the rod of sin he’ll now destroy,
“ And we in peace our King shall now enjoy."
So Satan now thy friends I'd have thee see;
Because in order placed now they be.
But first thy friend thou makest it was Cain;
I ask thee who approved it at that time ?
And see their vices, how thou led’st them on,
Until the Deluge over them did come. ,,
But now to Kings I mean to show thy reign,
And show their end; like them thou shalt be slain.
Pharaoh and Jezebel I’ll place in thee;
And all the bloody Kings before them see;
And then thy ways I ask if men approve ?
Let men of learning all their conduct move;
And all their reigns and actions let them show;
For they were govern'd all by thee I know.
For on this Eartn there never was a King
Ot bloody hands, but doth thy Likenessoring;
And like their ruin now shall be thy fall.
And now from Judges I shalljudge the whole;
And now from Judges men must stand or fall;
For like Abimelech, Satan, thou hast done;
Thou didst rob the Father, and destroy the Sons;
Digitized by Google
For on (he stone ’twas by thy arts they died—
One teasptesen'd, that here shall be applied :
It was my Son, that bid himself in death ;
Because his body never turn'd to earth,
Nor ever did itperish in the dust,
But it arosefor to instruct thejust
And as his Life in death he*then d/Jhide,
The mysteries of it here shall be applied :
For boldly after he did then appear,
And warn'd his people and his followers here,
How all the arts of Satan were set up;
And as they chose him, what had they to hope?
For like the Bramble Satan did appear,
And so he drew his followers in a snare, .
Until the fenced cities were destroy'd;
Jerusalem no longer was enjoy'd,
A fenced city as it was before;
And their strong towers he destroy’d them there.
For people like him they did after come,*
And so destroy’d the whole as he had done.
But now, Abimelcrh I’ll name him here
A type qf Satan; so he did appear ;
And Satan now is like Abimelech come,
To ask the peoplefor tocroxrn him King,
That all my brethren he may now destroy,
And now, by murder he may all enjoy.
And so together, will you crown him King ?
Through unbelief, in silehce vote for him ?
Then now4
, like Jotham, I do answer here $
And from this parable I shall appear:
The Trees t are now sent out to get a king—
Christ or the Devil must the victory w in:
And to the Oliv e-tree I’ll first appeal;
He is the Branch of Peace, and therefore he must fail,
To leave his glory, and come down below,
To leave the heavenlyjoys that there do flow;
For ’tis by me they honour G od and Man;
And so the kingdom I give to your hands.
If in your hearts you do appeal to me,
To be your King, Tilgive my Kingdom free
Unto my friends, that now appear to me :
I ’ll give my Kingdom, and I’ll give it free;
For on this Earth I shall not come to reign,
But send my Peace to all the sons of men,
• The Turks. f Judges, chap. ix. ver. 8.
N. B. The Reader is requested torefer to the chapters alluded to.
78
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
That firm as heaven it was made at first;
It cannot move: and so the end will burst,
And, like the Olive-tree, must steady stand,
And its decrees can ne'er be mov’d by man.
So here you see the O live would not move;
And here you see your G od, in perfect love,
To bring his kingdom, and Satan not at all;
For perfect like that chapter all must fall.
For as the Fig-tr eb did deny the same,
I tell you all, «uch heavenly joys will come,
That no promotion men will wish to see,
But what in sweetness all do flow from mb*
For when the heavenly joys to you do burst,
And you, the sweetness of the fruit do taste,
Within its sweetness you’ll say you will abide—
C hrist isyour King, and Satan is denied.
So now unto the Vi s e I say you’re come;
I am the Root from whence the branches sprang;
' And they I know will stick close to the Vine ;
And man’s promotion they will never mind,
/But close unto the*Ygir*; bteave,
And say, “ all ptlrerpl)eatux^n<tt* we’ll leave :
" For in the Vine* k *Te db’WJWRppa*r, -
" We know the T *ee of Life tsptomidd there;
" And Christ has promis'd to protect his Vine;
4i And there we’ll stand, and m his vineyard shine.”
So thus'1 know will be the minds of men,
For to stand still and see my kingdom come:
The Olive-branch they’ll now expect in Peace;
The sweetest joys from Heaven will now increase—
" And this in faith we now expect to see :
" C h r i s t is the Vine, and we the B r a nc h es be.
" Then how can we promote Satan a King ?
" We’ve sign’d the bond, Christ’s vineyard now to bring;
“ And w'c’Il not stir one step to break the law ;
" C hrist is the Vine, and we the Branches too,
" In every thing supported by his hand,
" And in his Vineyard we will steady stand.”
So here the T rees I knowr they cannot move,
That stand in me, and wait the truth to prove;
, They’ll not regard the honours done by man,
But in my Vineyard slediiisL they will stand ;
And ’tis in vain for Earth or Hell to move
The stedfast hearts that now do stand in love:
Because the joys of Heaven they fast will flow ;
Sweet are the pleasures you will taste below,
If now you say you’ll stick close to the Vine,
And let the world in their promotion shine,
29
Digitized by L r O O Q l e
so
That, like the Trees, will come your faith to move;
You’ll tell them plain, their ways you don’t approve.
But now unto the Bramble I shall come;
And will you now bow down to worship him ?
Then know, your stately Cedars they must fall:
For Satan now is come the King to call;
And like the Bramble he doth now appear;
Will you bow down, vain men, and worship^iere,
As now a King himself he’d now set up ?
Then to the Earth you know you all must drop;
As from this parable it is applied:
And in the Bramble was the fire bid, -
Which in Abimelecb it did so appear; i
He did cut down the boughs, you may see clear5^ -
And so their towers he did surely burn, >
. injfif
And full of fire was the Bramble com e; -'aiflfc*
For as they first did choose such wretched king**"
Then their destruction 1 did let him bring: *
And here of Satan stands a perfect sign; /;C* V
And like Abimelech is now his mind; r .
But mark Abimelech, how he did go on - -'P. *
Till to the stronger tower he did com e; - ~
And when in fury he attempted there, - •j
1 plac’d the W oman for to shew you dear,
As by the Woman did Abimelech fall, -
And oy the Woman now, 1tell you all, .
* The stone is thrownupon the Serpents head— *k
Though like Abimelech now may be his pleadr 1;-
That if he falls, it sure shall be by Man;
It never shall be said a Woman’s hand . t >
Was e’er the cause to make his pride to fall* s ^
So both together now, I tell you all, ■
, .>
That like Abimelech he will surely die ; -
: That is, hispower cut offfrom you, I say: . -
But yet, I tell thee, some will choose him ting**
As by their silence they'llprolong Ms reign;
And so, I say, they’Jlbnng their.nmuM|;
Because the Boughs and BrancbehJM^fU cut
A fire they’ll kindle and his friends confound.
And many thousand lives they’ll take away,
And fast their ruin doth before them lie.
But now with Satan I’ll go further on,
And in the end my thundering voiceshall cof
And now thefortieth pate I’ll answer here 1 ; ;
His gold and silver should it all appear,* ^
I ask the fool, if men can live by gold, •»..> •
juvJ*--
When every truth before them it is told, / / ;
* N,B. The Reader is again requested to rtfer^o the chapters alluded to, and,
also to the Pages in the Dispute with the Powers of Darkness.
Digitized by Google
That every blessing I should take away,
And soon destroy your fields of corn and hay ?
The cattle on a thousand hills are mine;
Doth Satan think that I shall them resign,
Ever to give these blessings to his hand ?
I ask what power he can now command,
To send one grain of wheat to make it grow?
No, all the Earth is mine, the fool shall know;
And so they all may live then as they list,
If Satan should this kingdom now possess:
Because no churches there would be at all,
To ask for blessings, for there none shall tall;
So " moping” in their churches none would be;
But soonfor hunger butchers you would see;
Then one the other men would surely kill,
And as they listed, so men's blood they'd spill.
And so the truth, the fool, he did speak there;
For, as they listed, men would soon appear;
And so their hearts, I know, he'd not coniine ;
Because a hell is all that’s in his mind.
But to theforty-second I shall come—
And his provoking words I let go on ;
From age to age l did his words endure; ^
But now I tell him his destruction's sure:
He that advanc’d himself in heaven so high,
And made the rebel angels to comply
In every thing for to provoke their God,
And make me lay on them a heavier rod ;
With indignation banish’d them to hell,
„YVith their provoking words that now do swell;
But yet, with patience, I did longer bear,
And his provoking speeches I did hear,
And so, I say, I let him t*
»go on: -
1did not hasiy cast him from my throne,
Until 1 saw his pride would not submit,
Confess his errors, that they had been great.
For perfect as lie did contend with thee,
And spoke against thy God in blasphemy,
1 say, in heaven he surely did the same,
And a superior power he there did claim,
Until to ca$t him he did me compel;
But then I did not cliain him down to hell,
'Till his provoking ways were fully up;
And now I’ll tell the fool that he shall drop;
For in the mortar I have bray’d him here,
And still his pride and folly do appear:
He sees what ruin he hath brought on man.
By every art he hath laid his plan;
He sees the prisons and thejails appear;
He sees the gallows, and the sinners’fears;
31
Digitized by C j O o q I c
He secs the sorrows he hath brought men to:
He sees their sufferings now before his view;
H e sees the conscience of the sinner swells
H e sees the trembling jailors now hiet£
In agonies they know not how to baft;
And yet his heart no love nor pity shares,
That he hath been the author of their, guilt,
But still with pleasure all their sufferings felt:
That is, to hear them daily tocomplain,
H e doth rejoice for to increase their pain ;
And now he would rejoice the world to sec
Lost in confusion, and in ruin be,
And in hi^'hellish power gain them alii
Then now, Proud Lucifer, I tell thy fall:
The measure of thy sins is fully up;
And like thy words, I tell thee, thou shalt drop;
Thou that advanc’d thyself in heaven’s high throne,
And there didst wish to have the power thy own.
And by thy pride and malice there to stay.
Look back, O Satan! think upon the day,
When all in heavenly splendour did appear,
And all in harmony my voice did hear,
And heavenly music was throughout the sound;
Till thy malicious heart did there abound,
With pride, with envy, and with malice swell,
And waut the heavenly armies to compel
To have these praises all turn’d back on thee;
And told the angels they should alf agree.
In the like manner, for to praise thy name,
With equal power thou wast like me become.
And so thy lies in Heaven did begin;
Thou know’st the way thou drew’st the angels in ;
But now thy power shall fall like one of them;
For though in heaven thou didst swell so high,
Low as thy angels thou shalt surely lie,
If e’er thou answer’st in one boasting word,
And dost not now confess the power of God
To be superior, and in justice shine,
To have compassion on the souls that’re mine:
That as I did create them all at first, v
Then like a Father now my pity bursts.
To every prodigal that will return;
For over them, I say, my heart doth yearn.
I see a famine in my land appear;
1 see my Gospel there’s no man can clear;
I see the Husk to man is now denied: v
But here thou marvel’st how it can be applied ;
Because the husk thou judgest is given free,
And so the swine may feed, 1 now tell thee;
32
Digitized
?d by Google
But here the Husk* I’ll prove it is denied;
And now I'll tell thee how it is applied:
Because the day of vengeance, ail may see,
Is for the JDevil now design'd by me ;
Which is the husk now given from my hand—
But sure these things are now denied by men,
That they may eat the words their minds to fill;
There is no other food, judge as you will;
And since by man this food is now denied,
Then to the following words must be applied—
Unto your Father you must all return,
Humbly confess that all your store is gone;
And now as hir'd servants you will be,
If I’ll accept the names that’re given m e .
To be a servant of your Lord become ;
This is the way the prodigals must tun?,
And joy in Heaven there will surely be;
For ninety-nine just persons now I see,
That in such maimer will not come at all,
And so I say that death on them must fall.-
Then what rejoicing can in heaven be,
To see the souls that will not sign for me,
To make your calling and election sure,
That Christ lias chosen for you to appear
For to_confound the haughty pride of hell,
Who boasts of armies he could now compel.
* So here, I tell you all, the lines go deep—
The prodigals will make some Saints to weep;
To see the fatted calves for to appear,
' And the new clothing and the ring see clear,
While they in unbelief did so stand out,
- For now 1 tell thee, many Saints will doubt;
And so I tell them they shall come with me,
If they cannot rejoice the truth to see,
That every prodigal may now return,
And over them their Father's heart will yearn;
if now they come my favour to implore,
I'll give them clothing they did never wear;
Because the dead shall now be made alive.—
My Ring is ready all for to receive—*
But will the Saints say, they are now t o o JirsT
For to rejoice with such unwelcome guests,
To see the prodigals for to return ?
And say, with sinners they can never join,
Because too righteous they themselves now be ?
Then in my Kingdom l e t them come with m e ;
• The only consolation man has for his fallen state, is the fuliillingdf the
2>iviue Wotth a* bra* ifceDoy of VtwnwtKtw UnrDevil* this is tboHnsk
that only remains for H an; and this the Preachers at this day deny. *•
c
3S
Digitized by Google
For now I'm come the sinners for to call
To the lost sheep, and non: redeem you all,
Now to theJorty-fourth page appear
The words of Satan I shall answer there:
“ What hath provoked incnoiv," I’ll let him know
Let him look back and see how all did go;
In every age what evil he hath done:
And was my anger never shewn to men,
When on their heads 1 did the evil turn,
And in my heart the anger it did burn,
To sec thee, Satan, lead them all astray ? *
And in my heart I've always borne the day,
That on thy head 1 shall the whole return ;
Twas only lent thee—all that thou hast done:
That I the debt of thee did not demand, i
Avenge my murder on thy bloody hand ;
When Judas, as a man he did appear, J
And bang'd himself for guilt he could not bear * f
So at that time thou killed st both GW and Man:k
Did I not know which way thou laid'st thy plan,1
*
And how by arts thou workedst then on men ? ‘
And my disciples how thou didst betray,
And how their blood was surely shed by thee ?
Hut mark, the sixth day, l did sure appear J
To die for man —thexfi thousandthyear
Is nearly ended, it must now be known; '•
But murk, theffxlA day was but partly gone,
When on the cross they surely nail’d me up;
And the fix thousandth now it cannot drop,
'Till on the cross they hang thee up the same; F
So now I let thee know thy time is come.
Though darkness then was overall the land
From the sixth hour. men may understand;
That three years' darkness Kill in man appear,
Though on the cross I’ve shewn you Satan here,
Ilow that by man he surely shall be cast;
And yet I know the darkness it will last;
Oxer all lands, I know it will appear
Gross darkness in the minds of men three years:
For one already is in darkness past;
And now the second it is hastening fast, r
And nought but darkness in the sons of men ;
Therefore the mysteries they do not see plain.
But the ninth hour when it did appear,
Mark well the shock that all the earth did bear :
Or else, remember what they then did see,
And then the ghost was given up by m e ;
That is, my life I did for man resign.—
And now, O Sutan, thou sbalt know my mind r
34
Digitized by Google
For all thy friends thou’lt know them in three years,
From the / i n s t h a t this did first appear;
And then the temple's veil from thee I'll rend,
And something new to thee i'll surely send ;
Then Satan and Apollyon both will see
The anger of the Lord's inflam’d with thcc.
So now my anger if thou’It pacify,
Consent to let my sealed peo ple lie
in peace and safety, and not one molest:
For fatal vengeance on thy head is cast,
If e’er my Sealed People thou molest,
Or ever lemptest them, then thy doom is cast;
Because my heated fury shall appear
Seven times hotter now, 1 tell thee here,
Than ever it was poured out on man ;
Because their blood upon thy head shall come ;
And thou shalt find Acr God does not deceive ;
. I'll be a God to her as she believes;
And then her paper thou with grief wilt see ;
Thy fatal end, Satan, will follow thee.
So now, I tell thee, 'tis high time to feaf; ,
For thy destruction now is drawing near; ,
For thy own ruin now thou'rt bringing on.
And to theforty-sixth page now I'll come.
And they shall find Sutan deceiv'd them all,
When out of Heaven he bis host did call
For to stand out in words against their God;
He did deceive them all in what he said ;
That he had power, as he said, supreme :
And now his power I have shewn in men.
And now* in Daniel he may see it clear;
And from Belshazzar I shall answer here;
When he the gods of gold began to praise,
Of-brass, of iron* and ador’d their ways,
And did begin to praise the wood ami Stone,
Then the handwriting unto him was shewn,
That all his iduh-gods must surely fall.
And his astrologers he then did call,
To give the meaning of my every hand,
But neither one the mysteries could command, .
Until the Prophet Daniel did appear. ^
And now the mysteries I’ll begin to clear;
The fallen gods of gold arc now* become
For to setup the honour of their king;
That is, of Satan, and the, fallen-host;
And of his praises they begin to boast, i
And all his worship they have brought forth heje.
Unto his gods the words I'll now compare;
c e
35
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
For no more power is in Satan's hand, w
Than the proud king cotlld from his gods command,
Which in his heart he did set up and praise,
And all joined with him—now behold my ways,
How thehand-uriting instant did appear;
And now, like him, O Satan, thou must fear.
It was but shadows then brought to the king,
But now on Satan I’ll the ruin bring.
For now the Prophet Daniel's words are conic,
And Satan’s gods of gold are now made known,
And my hand-writing doth to him appear;
He saw the hand, but could not make it clear,
What were the words that did him so reprove;
Nor could interpret how the Sprit mov'd;
The hand of God their blindness could not see,
Nor the hand-writing, how reprov'd was lie.
But now a Danifl shall to them appear, k
And the hand-writing l will now make clear. ^
Thou hast seen the judgments all vert past an ma’
ns
When I did threaten, so their ruin came;
For out of Eden they were cast at first,
And on the World did the Deluge burst;
When ! did threaten it, I did fulfil;
And in the deep 1 Pharaoh's heart did chill;
And Ahnb's house I surely did cut off*,
And Jezebel did feel my equal wrath :
Though she adorn'd herself for to tempt man,
But see her beauty, what it soon became : t
Cast from her grandeur for the dogs to tear !
And now, O Satan! this shall make thee fear
To see my word I always kept with men ;
And where's the power that did escape my hand ?
When Sodom and Gomorrah did appear, f
Against my angels they attempted there ;
Then fire from heaven did them soon destroy;
But know, that Lot protection did enjoy;
Because the angels he went for to free,
So nought but men appeared unto he;
They being angels, Lot he did not know,
And to protect them did his kindness shew ; ,
And now' the same mankind have shew'd it here—
Nought but a woman doth to them appear,
In ever)' manner perfect in her form;
But of her Spirit is to man unknown :
I tell you all, as much conceal9
d from man,
As were the angels, that to Lot did come.
But now a mystery must to all appear:
Just like the angels came the woman here*
* Belshazzar.
96
Digitized by Google ■
To warn you all of what was hastening on,
But sure protection she did find in man:
When Satan's host did press upon the door,
With every threatening did to her appear;
Then now, like Sodom, thou thy doom shalt see;
The men that press'd upon the door was he.
I tell thee, Satan, and thy hellish host,
Man must be freed like Lot, and thou art cast;
Because upon her thou didst now press hard ;
The weakness of her sex thou didst not regard ;
And now thy greatness 1*11 regard no more;
Thou’lt find my angers they were at the door,
And did the woman's innocence protect;
And now, like Sodom, thou thy doom expect;
Unless that iny desire thou'lt now obey.
] do not want thee to come back to m e ;
Only, I tell thee to obey my will;
Or else, my fury thou wilt surely feel i
If thou wilt trifle with the laws of God.
Jerusalem did feel the fatal rod ;
Then, if I always kept my word w'ith Man,
Canst thou expect my judgments for to shun.
When now against thee they are fix’d severe ?
If e'er thou aiin'st to tempt my chosen here,
Then the hand-writing thou shalt surely see;
And now I’ll tell thee plain thy destiny:
For now, O Satan, 1 do tell thee here,
The meaning of the vision that was there:
Thy kingdom it is number’d now by Gop,
And he will finish it as he has said ;
Because thy kingdom thou hast all run through;
Thy reign is short, and that thou'lt shortly know;
Because the Lord will shortly finish ii,
If to his laws thou dost not now submit.
For in the balance thou art surely weigh'd,
And wanting found, from all that thou hast said|;
Wanting in wisdom now thou dost appear;
Wanting in truth, thy lies thou canst not clear;
Wanting in power to support thy word ;
And soon thou'lt see that all the power’s of God.
And so thy kingdom I shall now divide; >
From Meries and Persians now shall be applied ;•
The Jaws and G entiles soon shall take the whole
And to the Law and Gospel it shall fall.
So bow, like Belshazzar is thy lo t; ^
For thy destruction's in my Bible wrote j \
* See Daniel v.^lattcr tart.
T:
37
a— is - Digitized by C j O O ^ I c
Ami now the words of Daniel do appear,
Thy very destiny is written there;
Because that like Belshazzar thou shalt fall,
And of this kingdom have no power at all.
But how could I destroy him as a man,
Had it not stood a type for days to come,
To take the kingdom perfectly from thee,
As with my Bible it might all agree ?
But know, that king my Prophet did approve,
Who’did array him for to shew his love;
Then now my love Til surely shew to Men;
And the third person in my Kingdom's them;
But as that Man shall be the ruler here;
Yet I before him surely must appear;
That is, in^w er, to chain the serpent dowTi,
I and my angels then must first be found ;
I and my angels to destroy the foe,
And the third Ruler then you all will.-know:
The Lore will give his Kingdom unto Men ;
And the third Rulers then will be in them.
But now the other Rvlers do appear,
That are your foes : and now you’ll sec it cleaner
That is, to throw a Daniel in the den ;
And that's the way your foes will all be slain: ,
And then Darius'just decrees you'll see -
Throughout the world establish'd they will be;*
The Kingdom of the Lord will ever stand, 9 ’
And his Dominion be in every land, I:
Which all the arts of Satan can’t destroy;
And my Dominion then shall all enjoy;
For so it shall be establish'd in the end, *
And like Darius, now I’ll be Man's Friend. 1
But further on with Satan now I'll go. *
The Jjfty-seventh page he now shall know; *>
But I'll go backward, and turn back the blow;
And to my Word I bid mankind to trust;
But as to Satan, there he well may jest;
Because my thveatenings they have all been long,
That my fierce anger should upon him come:
And as my judgment 1 on him do lay, t
The fool may laugh, and think they all will dic£
But now look back, O Satan ! and appear; «
Thou dost confess thyself a murderer here; r
The Man and Woman thou thought’st both to
And with thy hellish hosts their hearts to chill, &
And my Creation instant to destroy; *•'
And yet thou say'st, “ that God should thee enjoy
“ A tit companion’for tfis heavenly seat; *
“ Because," thou say'st* u thy Golden Orb wa$
38
Digitized by Google
Then now thy Golden Orb let it appear;
And with the dust dost thou thy gold compare ?
And see what fruit thy Golden Orb will bring;
Cun food or raiment from thy Orb now spring ?
Can any beauty in thy Gold appear?
Without the dust, vain fool, I tell thee here,
That all the beauties of thy gold must die;
And so the dust is much more worth than thee ;
The beauteous flowers,from the dust do spring ;
The lofty cedars all do come from them;
And every grain of wheat from dust doth grow;
And every root is nourish’dso below.
So now survey, and sec the native dust,
And sec what beauties now from it do burst;
Survey the stately palaces, how they stand;
’Twas from the dust their buildings they command
Survey the gardens, how they all do spring;
The beauteous flowers that appear in them ;
The shrubs and trees that make the wulks appear,
Are by the dust, vain fool, now nourish'd here.
The finest flowers from the dust do come;
And every grain it from the dust doth spring;
And from the dust do all the fruits appear;
*And from the dust men's lives preserved are;
And from the dust the beauties all do flow ;
And can thy Golden Orb such beauties shew ?
There's not a grain of wheat on it can grow ;
There's not a tree that can its root take there;
And if thou build a house with all thy care,
To have it standing, all built with gold,
Then see thy fabric, how long 'twill hold,
When thieves do plunder, and the house pull down
And lay thy stately fabric to the- ground;
Then see thy grandeur, how thy house doth stand,
To tempt mankind to plunder by thy hand.
But if that food it should be wanted there,
I ask, if gold one single grain will bear?
I ask what life from it mankind could draw'?
Or from ihv Golden Orb if aught could flow,
For to give comfort to the sops of men ?
Without the dust thy gold is all but vain;
So thou, vnin tool, thy icuorant pride now see;
The dust is much superior now to then ;
And so is Man superior now the same;
And all may judge it by the different name.
But as thou boa'test that thou wast in heaven,
And there thy grandeur thousny'&t *twas given;
Then thy last state is no:j worse than theJlrxt,
Because thy pride and malic* there did b ir^t:
3.9
Digitized by Google
And iike the King, when seated on his throne,
And judged himself a god and lice became.
So by the heavens no honour thou canst gain;
For there thou didst discover all thy shame ;
And there thou'st prov’d thyself much worse than m an;
Because the heavens thou didst make unclean ; ,
And by thy Golden Orb didst swell so high,
An fill'd the angels with thy majesty :
Or with thy worthless pride thou swcllMst them up,
And to thy greatness thought that all must stoop ;
Then I created Max out qf the dust*
To shew the greatat things that then must bunt,
To be companions in thy vacant seat;
And now I’ve shewed thee that the Dust is great:
Because all beauties from the dust do come ;
But know, proud Lucifer, in thee there's none.
So now thy Golden Orbs may shine in Hell;
The Heavens were never made for thee to swell,
In pride and envy, and above thy God ;
But Was is thy superior, 1 have shewM :
As from the dust all beauties here do spring,
And of th« Dust the H ead or all js Wan ;
And of the Dust the Head shall now appear,
To have my Kingdom and my Honour share;
AVhcn all this Barth I've made it now anew—
The barren Winds and barren Mountains too,
I now shall turn them to a fruitful field ;
And every beast to Man shall humbly yield ;
Because the Dust / wore do mean to try,
What fruit they'll bring when Satan ts not nigh.
But know, O Satan, though I speak from God,
The thundering of his Voice thou hast not heard;
No; all thy words must come before his throne;
And all his answers they will then be known. ^
Tis but thy folly here that I reprove;
Tiie anger of the Lord thou now hast mov’d ',
With indignation, at what thou hast said ;
I*or every page is now before him laid;
And thou wilt shortly find thy bill to come.—
And mark thejijiy-sixthpage, what is seen ;
Thou say'st, “ a liar God did then appear:” ^
Byt Man is dead* and now I’ll prove it clear;—
I lad he been living always in his Go d,
Then like the heavenly angels he had stood, £
In full perfection with them all to shine ; ^
Andfrom the Dust they all must know the V i n t ;
That like the Vineyard they must all appear— v
h Christ the Vine ? Then they’re the Branches £ere
40
r
l
K
*
i
Digitized by Google
As every thing is nourished by the Dust,
And so Man’s liftencssis in ail things plac'd;
And in God’s likeness this they’d all enjoy,
But death was pass’d this Likeness to destroy;
For to this Knowledge Man came instant dead;
His sense and feeling ofthese joys were fled;
And as a corpse thou surely lead’st them on,
Till to the grave, in sorrow, they did come.
But when the Life 1do renew again,
And free Men of that death and of that pain ;
Then a n e w World to them will surely burst.
As Men do find when risen from the D ust;
And then they’ll all confess that they were dead
To every Knowledge that was before them laid:
Dead to Perfection, they have surely been ;
Dead to the Happiness 1 made for them;
Dead to the Knowledge they had of their G od ;
Dead to the Footsteps they themselves have trod;
Dead to their Sorrows ; though they them do feel, *
And yet they’re dead—so now My Friends stand still—
When 1 begin to bring you 1111 to life, r
And come to conquer death, and end the strife, p
And make the glory of my Kingdom burst, \
And bring a perfect Paradise at last,
With love and harmony in every sound;
And every barren mountain shall be found
To drop down fatness on the sons of men,
Enrich your borders, and bring to a plain «
The rugged rocks and mountains that are here
Unto to a plain ; for man shall all appear.
Because a Paradise Ell make below,
And I have 2 ’
iiousands living 1 know,
That when these changes do to them appear,
They’ll say, “ we all weredead, xie now see clear;
u Though we were living, but like trees appear’d,
“ That had no knowledge of the fruit they bear'd;
“ Nor of the H usbandman that did plant them there.
For no more knowledge Man hath got of mb,
Than thy blind Friends they now have got of thee;
And by their Blindness, thee they do not know;
I ask what living Man could judge thee so,
To think that ten Years thou woulu’st first goon,
Till all thysubstar.ee it was spent and gone,
And then to run all hazards for my sake?
And poverty for ml thou didst undertake ft
Because thy Labour it lies by thee dead, *
Thou work'st for me, fait dost not earn thy fofguf;
Then how can men so void of reason be; ••
Were they not dead, they would begin to see,
41
Digitized by V j O O Q I c
That thou no ends in this could have at a ll;
Unless from heaven thou judg’st the every call.
So man I'll prove that he is totally dead
To eveiy knowledge that's before him laid,
And Satan be shall find the Words arc true.
When J bring Man to L ife, the fool shall know,
That he, like Man, is then pronounced dead,
And every knowledge then from him is fied:
And then he'll see the Truth for to appear,
Hit head is iruised by the Woman here ;
And Man is freed—and he receives his Curse
Above all Irving, must the fool confess:
And then he'll grieve to see that God is true—
“ And on my Head he now hath cast my doom”—
Or else, in agony, he may blaspheme, ^ ^
And curse his God, and gnaw his tongue for
That he is conquer'd by the sons of tnen ; A;
To see the fatal die loindkn is cast,
The Woman conquer'd, and his doom must bunt;
Because the Stone is cast upon his Head;
For here the stronger Tower it was laid :f v ^
The Faith of others he did soon'burn down;
He cut the Branches and did their Faith confound;
And to this fenced House he did appear;
But know, the Woman cast the mill-stone here;
I j M l did sayV
*
as broken at that time,
m w g Campion's funeral did resemble mine ;$
For near together it did then appear.
And now this answer | give Satan here:
Guarded by soldiors now he'll surely be,
And share his dying fate as well as m k;
For to all knowledge I shall make him dead,
And now go backward ; so the fool I lead. J
)
And to theJifty-foui'tk page appear.*
Suppose thy strength should now deceive thee here,
And thou begin to find that God is tru e,
And, like bis word, in all thiqgs now he'll do.
Wilt thou not tremble at the wrath of God,
Begin to Fear, and tremble at his Rod 1
For now remember, thou hast been deceiv'd
In all thy words to her, what thou’st believ'd ;
That thou could'st conquer, and should make her fall;
Her death thou threaten'dst; see thy lies f
For she a living Witness now doth stand'
inst thy lies, that dust thoiunay'st coii&**«»,
$isp. ‘ t ifadge* chafk 9.
i ofFaith*pagejy. ^Alluding,to the
4
8
Digitized by L i O O Q l e
For to creep on it, as she does appear
To be no corpse; so now must thou take care;
Because no mercy I to thee will shew,
If thou goest on to tempt my Chosen so.
For as the fifty-third page here is seen,
Thou hast mock'd thy God, and thou condemn'st the Son
And now to murder both thou dost appear;
For the Old Shtep thou tnurdcr'dst long before ;
And now, I say, tliou'rt come to the Ev< Lamb,
And here with murder was thy every plan,
By every threatening thou to her hast made;
And here thou'rt cast, the Stone is on thy Hcad^
Because the Woman was the Corner Stone,
Wherein 1 said Man's happiness should come.
And as his Helpmate she should so appear;
Then sure the Corner Stone it must be here;
And ou thy head thou knowest it did fall.
I said, which eVr stood out should conquer all;
And know, O Satan, that she did stand p u t;
And °f *hy power she did surely doubt,
That it was not so great as thou didst boast:
And in her Saviour then was all her Trust.
More than a hero she stood out for me,
And more than woman, every soul shall see;
With faith and courage she did sure stand o u t;
The pow er of her G od she did not doubt,
And of his Fa ith fu ln ess she did not fear;
And as her faith, she now shall conquer here;
Because she did stand out in Faith so strong,
When close upon her theu didst surely come.
Now on thy Head is fallen the Corner Stone;
For her last words to all must be made known—
Her hatred unto thee was very great;
And so I told thee that the end would break ;
But then, she told thee that her God was good,
And in his love and mercy then she stood ;
For his Protection she did seek to gain ;
And know,* O Satan, she hath not seck'd in vain;
For misery, she said, she did refuse;
But happiness, thousay'st, thou didst not choose.
For thy last words, O Satan, must appear:
God's Protection thou despisedst there,
As much as she thy favours did despise—
Here ends the Seven Days; - let all be wise :
She told thee, great her hatred did appear,
Against such wretched Bring as thou w ert: .
But then she told thee, that hefGoD was good,
And thou wast Evil, must be understood.
43
Digitized by’Google
And mark in print how this last page doth »tKiid,
Wherein the Seven Days Dispuie did end ;
Three different manners doth the print appear,
And now three different answers shall men hear;
For in large Letters, plain for to behold,
You'll ace the truth from what the woman told—
Over the Earth mv Kingdom now sh a ll come ;
The G lory of the Loud shall clear he seen
As perfect as the letters do appear
As different from the rest, you all shall sec clear ;
And great you shall find the change to he;
I’ll gain my footing here, you all shall see ;
An«l Goo over all ike Earth I'll now become—
Three different Prints, must unto all be known,
Do in this last Dispute with both appear ;
I say the Woman, and the Devil there;
And so the same when I gave up the Ghost,
Three different L a n g u a g e s over my Head was plac'd.
Of Greek, and Latin, and of lie brew too.
Now let them both he laid before your view;
For this Fm speaking to the sons of men;
And now's the time you all shall find me K ing.
So now rejoice, ye fallen sons of men ;
Because your standing I'll make wore secure,
And much more firm for to endure ;
Than ever it could lie before youfell *
For uow’s the time Pm come to conquer Hell.
So here's my Answer to. the sons of men ;
If Paradise was lost, you may regain,
If by the Woman you in Faith do stand,
And take the Good F r u i t from the Womans Hand.
For now the Woman, I will answer here;
If from herself her works do all appear,
Then something mote than Human is on earth,
Fori to bring in to Man a second Firth !
And in this world there must be something new.
H'is more than all the learned men could do,
To act like her, such mysteries to bring round ;
More than a Woman ! is in every sound;
And if she vainly boast *tis from herself,
I say, her pride must equal that of hell,
* The Reader will observe, that if Satan had never tempted Man to fall,
HIan would stdl be liable to Ins temptations, whenever he chose to begin, du­
ring the 6000 years ; therefore infinite Wisdom permitted the Fall, and secured
Man from eternal ruin, by preserving the Tree of Life from Ins reach, until tbe
fulness ot time came, when Man is again restored to the image and likeness of
his Maker ; secured Iround* power of Satan, who will be so bound and chained
as to have no access to deceive Mau any more. Then may he take of the Tree
*>
f Life imd live! Can this all-wise and merciful plan originate from the weak
brum of a simple Woman, or in any wisdom of Mau* either natural or acqmrctf?
. * " -
44
___ Digitized by Google •
And judge herself superior to this race,
And all the learned men she must disgrace.
For now Til challenge,—none with her shall plead,.
To say my Bible’s true, and she’s misled ;
And all the learned world 1 will defy,
To prove their Bibles, and give her the lie,
To say my Spirit doth not lead her on;
Then she must be a wonder born to man.
But if such boasting fool she did appear,
I’d drown her senses and send wise men here,
That they should soon coufound her haughty pride.
But know, vain men, your wisdom all is tried;
For there’s none that can confound her hand;
Because in Fa ith she humbly now doth stands
And doth confess the Spirit came from me,
Or some Invisible, is said by she;
So to her Wisdom she hath ascribed none;
But fools, in folly, have their folly shewn,
To judge that Man, who is pronounced decal*
Could in such wondrous manner ever lead:
Then they in Wisdom must be all Divine,
And with their Maker must pretend to shine*
So now, vain fools, I’d have you to appear,
And lower your pride, or fully answer here, ,
That all such wondrous Mysteries you'd bring round;
Then soon I'd come and every sound confound. ►
So here are the different answers now for man,
To those who do deny her written hand;
That like the Serpent you must now appear,
To speak in lies that you can never clear :
And, like the Serpent, all your pride must fall,
Because your God you rob him now of all, )
Of every honour due unto his name, *•
And so your pride FIl surely put to shame.
So here of Men you hear a different sound ;
But now to Satan see the end is crown'd :
Because the Enmity see how it doth stand,
The Seventh Day, and now the whole command ; b
For there the Enmity in both is plac'd ;
Satan against the Lord he doth confess; \
And she against the Devil doth appear, i-
And boldly told him that she did hate him there.
Then back to the Creation you are come:
He kill’d the Sheep but I preserved the Lams ;
Because M yself 1was the Lamb that was slain; ‘
But for my own Death I did not contend.
To bring my Murder then upon his head;
It it tbe Murder on my Followers laid !
45
- ^ t
Digitized tjy Google
46
The Martyr’s blood upon his head shall fall:
The Death of Lewis must forewarn yau all,
That Satan now must like the Homan fall;
For as he saith, “ lie never will Repent”
He'll find my auger and my mind is bent,
With every threatening he did come to thee,
With equal threatening!* now I'll come on he.
But what I've answered is with him and Man ;
But now unto the purpose I whall come;
And all his words thou'lt read then unto me,
And now I tell thee I shall answer thee:
For now the first, as thou hast read them here.
Is like the Serpent, when he did appear
In the Beginning, for to work on Man,
And there the Marriage of tfte Lamb did come.
Wisely thou answer'dst, Man was counted dcad,:
And so the Serpent, perfect as thou saidst.
But here's a folly thou didst not discern ; J
I did not then convince thee, at that time, |*
To see if man could ever find it out; :
But thou'rt entangled, and thou now dost doubttr
Of thy own judgment, that it is not clear:
Because three Marriages thou makes* there,
Before thousay’st the Marriage of the Lamb;
So 'tis thefourth Marriage thou dost join;
For the first Marriage thou didst not discern.
It was an Union with your God to join;
The second Union was between the Two,
And Man and Woman were within iny view,
That they in marriage then should be complete,
In happy Union, and in Blessings great.
So here the Union it stood at the first:
With God, with Man, the Union it did burst:
And then the second it did sure appear;
I gave the Woman to complete it there ;
And then the Marriage did appear but me;
For I a Father to them both did come ;
But then the Serpent he soon struck them dead
As with the H oman he did intercede *
To bring in Death, you say, upon the.Afan :
And there the Marriage of the Lamb did come ; '
Because I said that I*d die in his room, |
And make the Serpent tremble at his doom : *
b
* The Reader is requested to read WiiL particular attention, and compare
with Page 75 of the Dispute with the Powersof Darkness, where the Devil
said, "by Marriage now abide;” for he imposed on Joanna, and caBed hisfatal
Divorce u Marriage which be produced betweenKan and Woman^and .their
Maker; but Divine Lore, at the tame time, provided the remedy bj thelVar-
ri«gc ofthe Lamb.
Digitized by Google
As on his head the Woman cast the blame,
I instant told her l#
d her H usband come;
And over her in power I said I'd rule;
And so preserve the T hee of Life for alt,
That in the end you all might live in m f,
When I fulfil the promise given to s h e .
So, as thou say'st, the third Marriage shall stand ;
The first a Union was with God and Man,
That in my Likeness I said he should stand ;
And so my L ikeness I did join in Two;
The Man and Woman they were joined so;
The Man was One, and soon became as Tuo:
Then knowr, as Man I surely did appear,
When I did die, the guilt ot‘Man to clear ;
Because the Woman's Ignorance was betray'd,
And perfect so the Serpent now did lead ;
That as a Husband he did sure become,
And said to Marriage he would hold thy hand ;
And thou for want of judgment didst not see,*
Satan was never nam'd a Husband once to be.
Then how the fool could he the marriage claim ?
And to his words to marriage now I'll bind:
I said, a whoring they went all from me,
When unto Satan they were wandering free;
And nought but bastards did their children call,
Because strange gods had draw n the hearts of all,
That they as bondsmen surely did appear;
But know, a bastard never was an Heir;
Though Satan's arts had thousands so ensnar'd.
That all a whoring they went from their God.
But now the fool shall tremble at my rod ;
Because a Husband he cannot assume,
And nowf the fool shall tremble at his doom.
For now to Marriage every soul I'll bind—
And, Satan, where's thy Altar now to find ?
Produce thy License; who thy Banns will call?
Produce thy Ring for to encircle all;
And now thy Marriage Deeds, let them appear;
1 ask thee, how a Husband thou canst clear
That thou wast ever to the sons of men?
Or where's the Woman thou'st put on the Ring ? 1
Or where’sthe Priest that did the Marriage join ?
The roving heart is an adulterous mind,'
That I pronounc'd was whoring from their God,
And so the Harlots they are public shew'd,
That they arc prostitutes to men become; w
But where’s the Marriage doth the Harlots join?
• See the bottom of the preceding pege.
. 47
Digitized by L j O O Q i e
^ 0 , if they'remarried, then they are made free,
If they no longer live in adultery.
So ’tis not Sin that Marriage can proclaim; -
Because that Marriage bears the sacred name;
(But nothing sacred, Satan, is in thee;
So by thy own Bonds bound thou now shalt be.)
For that’s the way 1 made the Bonds at first;
And that’s the way I said the Heirs must burst.
So now a Husband wilt thou dare assume?
Then now I’ll make thee tremble at thy doom.
And bring thy sacred altar; tell me where
That as a Husband thou didst once appear?
Bring me the priest that ever join’d thy hand:
1 tell thee Marriage was design*dfor man.
But make the Crosses,* see how all do stand,
In every page where Satan threaten’d there,
And all these Crosses shall on him appear;
For on his head his threatenings all shall fall.
Thejourteenth page the Crosses do appear ;
And like the fourteenth page my words he’ll bear.
So if in pieces I do tear the fool,
He now shall know he brought it on himself.
So, if his Back be Brass, he can appear,
And made of Iron that he doth not fear
For to contend so boldly with his G od:
He now shall find and feel my iron rod,
If he is come my Subjects to compel,
And boldly- triumph of his host in hell.
Then now, his hellish host, they may appear
And meet their awful J u d g e now in the air,
And see if they can be match for heaven.
For now the Challenge is by Satan given ;
A s in the ^fifteenth page it doth appear;
And the mad fool shall know my pow er’s there;
For he shall know that I have scal'd his doom ;
And now his matchless power, let it be known;
For there I tell him, his proud waves are stay’d.
When l the Earth a strong foundation laid,
I plac’d for man a doubleflaming sword;
And now I’ll use it perfect like my word:
For every way I’ve sav’d the T r e e of L i f e ;
And now I’ll use the sword to end the strife.
The Breath of Lif e in Man I sure did breathe;
And Man shall find I will not him deceive.
But as the Devil saith that I’m unjust;
Then lHte his faith I bid him now to trust ;
If they no mercy ever found in me,
Then now they never shall, they all shall see;
* The Roadet will see the reason of the Crosses in » subsequent page.
4$
, Digitized by Google
So now their power let it to appear*. ^
And meet their, awful Judge now in the air,
Whose j ust difpleasure they have now provok’d ;
And now I bid them fear the coming stroke:
And then their power they'll begin to see,
The limits of their space were given by me
And that their boasting I shall soon destroy.
And then their wisdom let them all enjoy.
As in the seventeenth page it doth appear,
I ’ll now go on, till I the whole do clear.
And to the eighteenth page I now shall come:
There stands the Cross, and so it shall fall on them
For as he said the tish did jump on thee,
I tell him now, it so shall fall on he;
So now the fool I’d ha^e him to take care,
If he is hardened now he’th all to fear;
For to my word he’ll find that I will stand.
’I want not armies now for to command,
But want to see if he’s a King supreme,
And by his power can all my subjects gain ;
But to attempt it now, I say they dare—
The twentieth page, like him, I’ll answer here z
Unto men’s peril let them join him here;
For all his Votes must meet him in the air;
For there, I tell you all, will be the sight,
And you, my Friends, below will see thefight;
And then with pleasure you may stand and gaze,
And say we’re lost in wonder and amaze,
To see our God stand out a Man of War,
And all his heavenly armies to appear!
For as the Shadow unto thee was seen,
I tell thee plain the Substance will begin;
Shot after shot, I tell thee, fast will fly,
And fiery serpents be seen in the sky:
And for a Type my Thunder it doth stand;
Flashes of lightning are seen in your land,"
And so the lightning will to all appear,
And rolling thunder bursting in the air;
With great confusion fast it will be hurl’d,
Wave after wave, and world confus'd with world.
For as the Vision it did first appear,f
I tell thee plain, the End will be seen clear;
For all the swords will be seen in the sky,
And fast the shot on every side will fly.
So Satan thou hast challeng’d for a War,
Mark, how the twenty-second page appears;
For in thy own words I shall answer here:
* See Dispute with the Powers of Darkness, page
t See Strange Effects of Faith, page 29.
V
49
Digitized by Google
50
* If thou art a devil, to thou aay*st thOu’lt be,
And in like manner, now I'll answer thee i
As in my ways thoasay’st I’ve been unjust.
Then now I tell thee perfect so’t shall burst;
In fury on thee I will now appear;
And unto Man my justice I shall clear,
Who doth confess that Justice is in G oo;
And unto Man my Justice shall be show’d.
But as the fallen angels all agree,
To say that God is nought but cruelty.
And with their Leader they do all combine,
T o say in wisdom brightest he doth shine,
In words, in merit, and in every praise,
And altogether they adore his ways;
Then all together they%ith him snail g o ;
Ingratitude shall all its vengeance know:
The worst of witchcraft it doth now appear,
When I have tried his reign Five Thousand Years,
And now Eight Hundred added to the Sixth ;
Then now he’ll find that my Decrees are fix’d.
For as the Cross for him it doth appear,
Drawn with the Circle, so I tell thee here,
In all thy words I have so encircled thee.
And now, O Satan, thou thy ruin see;
For on thy head the threatenings they shall fall,
And like the King I’ll act, I tell you all,
That made the man his poisonous coat to wear,*
That he had brought the king to poison there;
So on the man he did his guilt turn back.
And perfect so shall Satan feel the rack;
For his low cunning arts I all despise;
And all thy ways are now before mine eyes;
For as thou say’st that G od is new unjust,
And all thy fury doth against me burst;
Then all r - - ^ ’* * se—
Prepare n mb !
If thou dost judge thou hast a powerful hand,
Call forth thy legions, and the challenge stand,
To meet thy avrful Judge now in the air.
I ask what armies there need to appear
One single woman’s life for to destroy ?
And see what brittle thread man’s life enjoys;
And if that brittle thread of life be cut,
There need no armies for to make it break.
So all thy hellish host thou call’st in vain,
And thy destruction now thou’lt surely gain;
* A poisoned Coat that was made for a King, which, when on, the warmth
of the body caused the poison to infuse its baneful effects. This Prince, being
secretly apprised of the plot, desired the man to put it on himself, to see how
it looked. This the person endeavoured to avoid; the king insisted em being
obeyed; and in a short time he felt ks effects, and expired*
V
Before the Woman tbou’st begun to fall:
And now, O Satan, I do tell you all,9
Thy powerful reign make hast for to prepare.
As in the twenty-ninthpage it is here*
N o more for honour I’ll contend with thee,
But in thy weapon now cut down thou’lt be;
Because of honour in thee there is none |
N o love, no pity, or mercy hast thou shown;
And now of mercy Til show none to thee.
Bring in thy bill; and all thy debts now pay;
And now I tell thee I will sure pay m ine:
The Curse I did pronounce thou now shalt find;
For all thy Legs l now shall take away\ —
I ask thee how thou’lt stand the Judgment Day,
When I in thunder do to thee appear,
And show the murders thou’st committed here.
And show what traitor thou hast been to man }
For like a thief, in ambush, is thy plan j
Because the thief in ambush thou dost prepare;
And now thou’lt find the gallows it is near.
That thou so often didst prepare for man*
To rob and murder was thy every plan:
But yet of man thou daily dost complaixr!
I tell thee now I’ll try the sons of men; '
For all thy power now I’ll take away—
If I’m unjust, Satan, it shall be to thee:
Because my Justice thou’st allow’d there’s none;
Then now I tell thee, it shall not be shown,
For any justice now to come to thee;
What thou call’st Justice can’t agree with me.
But to my Justice justly thou art cast,
And now I’ll come to be thy Judge at last:
That I in R ighteousness may surely sit.
When I pronounce on sinners then their fate,
That to eternity it must endure,
Firm as the Heavens, and never alter more*
Then clear in Judgment I will sure begin;
And now, without thy arts, I will try Man ;
And then in Justice I’ll to Man appear;
If all the Fault be thine, the Fault thou’lt bear:
£ But as thou say’st, “ the Fault is so in M en;
“ T is their own hearts that first enticed them/’
... Then now the T ru th of this I’ll surely know;
T o provethe Truth I’ll chain thee down below;
Anu& en a Judge of Man I’ll surely be.
Whether the fault do lie in Man or tbee*
But as to Man, his ways I sure do hjame;
I gave him Reason, to exert the same; , __
OJEIii whole host. t SeeGenesis,iu, 14. Upon thy btfly*shelfthen go, lie.
D 2
61
Digitized by
y
Google .
And plain before them I have set my law 3
They have not kept it, that I well do know :
And of their ways if they do not repent,
They’li feel my anger ; for my mina is bent,
I will not always be wearied out by men;
Nor shall my angels always strive with them,
To guard and keep them from the tempter’s power ;
I’ll make a Peace; and Satan shan’t devour
The peace of angels, and the peace of men;
For now in Union I them both will join.
Then my delight with men will surely be,
To see that men and angels do agree.
Because a Heaven PU surely make bckm:
This is my Kingdom, and I’ll make it so.
For as the tlurty-Jirst page doth appear,
If I am a fool, my folly now I’ll clear.
I bear’d the Cross to conquer Death and Hell,
And now the second Cross, for thte I tell,
Shall surely fall on thee, as mine did at first.
If I am a fool, my folly now shall burst.
But dost thou say, Satan, thou wilt not submit?
From thy own words, Satan, I’ll finish it.
Thou say’st the Laws that thou didst never make,
And from thy words the whole I now will break ;
Because, I tell thee, thou didst ne’er make Men{
And now I’ll break them off from all thy hand.
And all thy power now I’ll take away;
For over Man. thou shalt not always sway;
And as this Earth was never made by thee,
I tell thee, in it thou shalt never be.
When I’ve tried Man, and so secured my wheat.
Thou’It find the truth of all these words are great;
As thou didst never make the Man at first,
Thou never shalt stand with him at the last;
And as the world was never made by thee,
I tell thee, in it thou shalt never be;
And upon it, I say, thou shalt not stand.
To have a footing, but to be condemn’d^
And so like Jezebel must be tby fall;
In vain thy hellish host thou now wilt call;
Because unto thy word I’ll hold thee here :*
Thou never mad’st this world by thy care ;
And now the world thou never shalt destroy;
Thou mak’st no laws, nor none shalt thou enjoy.
But what do from thy own words now appear;
And in the thirty-fourth page see clear:
For Man, 1 tell thee, shall not wmnt a guard;
And death and hell shall soon be thy reward^
If thou gocst on to answer me again.
Or-dost presume to tempt my chosen men*
52
Digitized by Google
Thou’lt see the wonders I shall surely do.
And to thy sorrow find, that Goo is true.
For unto thy appointment thou shaft come;
I will not be thy Keeper't shall be known,
I say to keep thee on the earth I made;
And by thy own words thou art now betray'd:
Because no longer thou hast footing here,
Than in the thvty~ftfth page doth appear ;
That is, thy J udges to be found by Man;
And so I tell thee to call in thy own:
To thy own Kingdom call them to appear;
But know, the SEALED must my Kingdom share;
Because this Kingdom thou didst never make,
And here my Laws, I say, thou shalt not break.
But if the greatest part thou say'st are thine,
Then in thy Kingdom let them go and shine.
For now I tell thee, I shall answer here,
That perfect like my Gospel I'll appear:
And my Appearance will be in this land,
And here my Sealed Number they must stand;
Because the Seals must in their hands appear:
These are the Lamps that will the Mysteries clear;
And with the Bridegroom they may epter in ;
That is, my Kingdom they will surely win.
But all the rest, I say* I know them not;
And if they're thine, then Death must be their lot.
But if that mike stand>out through unbelief,
I’ll tell them plain that Death must end their grief;
Because that like my Gospel I'll appear—
It is the Seals that every Lamp must clear:
The Seal’s the L amp they must have in their Hand,
And they, and they alone, I say will stand,
Who will go out with joy to meet their Lord,
And say they're seal'd according to my word.
Then it's too late for any to appear,
To ask to have their Names now scaled here;
Because the Seal there’s no one can command,
But what is sealed by the Woman’s Hand ;
Because her Hand, I tell you all, is mine,
And to her Hand I will my Hand resign.
So now I tell thee, Satan, to leave all.
And thy own friends to thy own kingdom call;
And there I bid thee for to call them home,
And leave me and my Kingdom then alone.
Thou shalt not stand on what thou didst not make;
So from thy words I tell thee now’t shall break;
And all thy friends thou now may’st call them home.
W h e n I h a v e had one y e a r to seal my owns
And if thy pleasures they do all approve,
Then let them go and join the king they love;
53
__Digitized by Google
For I’m not come to rob thee of thy own ;
But all thy Power Pm come for to unthrone,
And take thee from a world thou hast never made;
And from thy own words now the whole shall break.
So now thy subjects I shall shortly try;
I know a famine in them all doth lie,
That are thy faithful subjects to appear;
Through unbelief they'll starve and perish here ;
And so the Famine now the Rich shall see;
Through unbelief they’ll surely starve and die.
For here’s the Bread that must preserve your Lifer
The Bread of Heaven now must end the strife.
For men’s provoking words shall soon be o’er,
As in theforty*secondpage appears,
By Satan’s arts, provoking words are spoke;
And now, O Satan, tremble at the stroke;
For as the Cross doth on this page appear,
And circled round, just so thy doom is near;
For thy provoking words are fully up,
And now, proud Lucifer, thou’lt surely drop.
Though thou’st advanc’d thyselfto heaven’s nigh throne,
By boasting of a power that’s not thy ow n;
This mighty power I surely shall chain down,
And let thy legions tremble at the sound.
For as theforty-fourth page appears—
And mark the Crosses, seven are placed there;
So Seven Crosses now are on thy Head,
From every word thou’st in that sentence said:
Seven times hotter shall my wrath appear,
Than ever it was kindled here before;
If thou to tempt my sealed do go on,
Thou'lt feel the fury of my wrath to come.
So in thy Power do not put such trust—
APOLLYON and the DEVIL both are cast
For if already Pve deceived man,
And better than my promise I have been;
Then now I tell thee, Satan, I’ll appear
N o better unto thee, but be severe;
The worst of torments thou must now endure;
That is, thy haughty pride must now stoop heret
To have thy Sentence from a Woman’s hand,
Whom thou’st betray’d—see how the Cross doth stand ;
For two together they do now appear,
And two thou hast betray’d—Satan, take care! ^
The First the Woman thou didst sare betray;
The Second thou in Judas then didst lay,
And so thou didst betray the Son of God ;
But now the Woman's hand brings on thy rod.
And so thy ruin thou hast now brought on,
As.in the forty-sixth page it is seen.
54
Digitized by Google
ForooW' Apolfyon, I’ll turn back on thee
The very words that thou didst say to she,
And thou wilt find Satan deceiv’d thee there;
His power is not so great; so now take care,
As he hath told his angels that did fall,
And soon thou’lt find Satan deceiv’d you all:
And the two Crosses will fall on thy head,
As iri the forty-sixth page they are laid.
And now unto the fiftieih page I'll corner
The Power of Satan thou say'st is known
To be superior to the Power of G od;
Then now HIS Power shall sure be tried and knowM.
So now the fiftieth page let all weigh deep;
There stands the Cross, and there the Cross shallbreak;
So, .Satan, now the hazard thou wilt run
To try ihy God, if he hath Power supreme;
And his superior Power thou shalt see—
I freed the Woman, and I’ll conquer theb
55
THURSDAY, Sept. 16, 1802.
“ But now, Joanna, I'll to thee appeal,—
Satan hath held mb to my promise here,
That if thy Body I in pain afflict,
H e knows thou’lt curse me, if I lay the stroke:
So now the stroke I gave into his hand,
When forty days are past, as I command,
He, seven days may lay the stroke on thee,
To suffer pain as 'tis judg’d fit by he:
Only, thy Life, I say, is in my hand,
And that he cannot touch, is my command;
But as the pain in Wilson's head appear’d,
Just so he holds me, thou the same must bear.
And this already thou didst surb resign,
To bear for W ilson; but mark, this is mine;
'Tis for my honour thou the pain must bear;
And dost thou answer, thou'lt my honour clear,
With much more pleasure than thou would’st for Man?
Then now’s the time the trial must come on;
Because that Satan holds me to my word,
And then with power thou’lt hear the Voice of G o*.*
This vm written four days before her Illness, qf the 21st qf this
month, Sept. 1102.
Digitized by Google
Joanna, while reading the book of her Disputes
with the Powers of Darkness, was ordered to put
Crosses with her pen at particular places. One
cross was to the answer of ApolU on, near the top
of page 46; another cross to his next answer, in
same page; and in page 50, another cross against
Apollyon’s-answer, near the top of that page.
At the beginning of tlic Sixth Day’s Dispute,
she was ordered to put a Circle to Satan’s words;
then to divide it into four parts, by a cross; and
in each'division to put a cross, making in the
whole five Crosses, thus—
56
And there she was ordered to stop until the 27th
day of the month; as the Power of Darkness was
permitted to afflict Iter seven days, as.he thought
proper; but not to have power over her life. It is
to be observed, that the week before this took place,
she was afflicted with a pain in her head; and on
the 18th day of the same month, she had the fol­
lowing directions : “ Set thy house in order fo r
thy sick bed is sure; give one o f thy keys to a frltnd,
to come in on the Hist day, as it will be dangerous
fo r thee to come out of thy bed.” On the 20th she
went to bed, and dreamt she was laid on a bank
or stone; some people went by and asked why she
laid’there: she said, to view the planets, and the
clouds, that appeared working in a strange manner.
She then awoke, with a violent parin in her bones
and bowels, as though she had laid according to her
dream. After laving awake a long time she again
went to sleep, and dreamt she was laid on the same
bank, when some reapers passed by; they asked her
if she would go with them: she said yes, and arose
and followed them, till she came to another bank,
having in her hand a goad, like that which is
It may perhaps be of use to the Reader, if he were to nark ihfc Crosses a
t w , -•-----iu his owu bocL -f ±
Digitized by TO O ^ l L C
used to drive oxen, &c. She then threw the goad
over the bank, and it instantly sprang back to hef
again; she threw it a second time over tne same bank,
and it sprang back as before ; then she thought to
throw it gently, and to her astonishment, it returned
to heT gently back. This she marvelled at, particu*
larly, as the two former throws, she thought when
they returned to her, it was from their force repelled
back. Here she awoke, and found herself full of
pain as before; she was then ordered to go out of
bed, and take some wine, that Mr. Sharp had sent
her, as he was warned of the certainty of her illness.
On drinking the wine she found her inside relieved
with a comfortable warmth ; she returned to her bed,
and lay composed until her friend, Mrs. Field, came,
who.had the key to let herself in. Her pains then
returned, with a fever; when she was answered, that
as her sickness was left for the Power of Darkness to
afflict, he had not afflicted her in the head, because
she should not say she was afflicted like Wilson; so
the pain of her head that she had the last week was
turned; which was the reason the Lord ordered her
to keep her bed; as he knew which way Satan meant
to cast the blow. The second day she was seized with
a choaking, which seemed to rise from her stomach,
accompanied with laughing fits, which lasted more
than an hour. An apothecarybeingsentfor, he arrived
at eight o’clock at night, who wrote a prescription,
which wastobe taken, butteasomitted; she was some­
thing better when he came, but at midnight she was
in a delirium, that she knew not what took place; for
she was invisiblyforced out o f bed, sick as death, and
lay in a senseless state on the. floor, which awoke her
friend. After the sickness was a little over, her friend,
with much trouble, got her into bed, beingastonished
at the senseless, stupid state she was in. Site laid inher
bed a little while, and was again forced out with the
same effects, which much alarmed her friend, to see
her so deadly sick, without the least appearance of
sense. After her sickness wasabatedher friend helped
herinto bed a second time; when, after laying a short
Drgitized by Google
5
7
time, she rose up in the bed, and began fighting and
talking; all this so much teitified her friend, that
she said she would not undergo such another night
for a large sum. At last, having returned a little
to her senses, she saw her distressed friend, sitting
out of bed, and dressed ; she asked Iter, seeing her
clothes on, why she did not come to bed, and what
made her sit up ? and told her she had a most won­
derful dream,—for she thought she was out of bed,
down in a dark passage, where she lay for some time,
and after that she thought she was upon the bed
lighting with the devil. Her friend answered,—“ I
think you have been fighting with the devil; and I
shall tell you to-morrow.” So she persuaded her
friend to come to bed, and they lay composed until
the morning, although she continued in this statefrom
between 11 and 12 at night, until near 4 in the
ipgl Her friend then convinced her, by proofstffljflfet
her horrid sickness,which she said she couldAothflllr^
believed, had she not seen it ; for she had no other
knowledge than by her dream. A ll this time she had
taken no medicine whatever. The fevercontinuedduf-
ing this day, when another apothecary* was brought
by Mr. Sharp, about three o’clock, who told her that
the fever would last twenty-one days ; she answered,
“ then I shall not liveso long." He replied, “ you may
not be so bad as you are now all the time.” He then
prescribed medicines to be taken. But in the midst
of all her violent pains and illness, she was assured
by the Lord, that he would raise her up on the se­
venth day, which she repeatedly told all her friends,
when she lay in the most dangerous situation; but
none believed that the Lord wouldraise her up,in the
manner she was, but Mr. Sharp. During her illness
she had many remarkable and wonderful dreams ;
one of which was, “ that she was in a corn-field with -
standing corn, except some that was cut down; she
* This gentleman was desired to attend, he being a man of much prtfaatwmal
knowledge and practice (and ofan uprightcharacter, like the former) but having
no belief in visitations out of the course of nature,*was judged to be the moat
proper person to relate the facts, without being partial, in otdet to guard against -
Overj idea of imposture, that many persons might wish to believe.
5
8
Digitized by Google
thought the Lord threw down from heaven three
sheets of paper, that fell upon the standing corn.
It was in print, much like her mode of writing. She
thought snexead them, and that they were the de­
crees ofthe Lord for men and devils; she thought the
writings were full of the most heavenly and beauti­
ful language; she remembered a few of the words
when she awoke, but soon forgot them. She thought
there was a large quantity of birds in the corn-field,
pigeons and partridges, which she was ordered to
catch, when a large covey came to her, and flew on
her arms and on her breast, which she caught and
put in her apron; there were other flocks in the field,
and she told all her friends, who were in the field
with her, they must also catch them; she saw the
birds gathered round them in coveys to be caught,
so they gathered them without trouble.” The meant
ing o f this dream w ill be known hereafter. She had
strange dreams every night, but they are not all to
be penned at present. The fourth day her fever be­
gan to abate, and for two or three hours in the even­
ing she seemed quite recovered, and talked much to
her friends, very cheerfully; but the next day, her
Jains returned with double force, and her faith, like
'eter’s, began to sink; she thought it impossible to
foe recovered from such illness in two days; and she
Was again assured, that the Lord would fulfil his
promise; but she wished to Conceal from her friends
the dangerous state she felt herself in; knowing how
they rejoiced the night before, she did not love to
sink their hopes; but she was so ill that it could not
be concealed from them, and they were sunk in fear,
except Mr. Sharp, who declared his faith was as
firm as ever, as he judged him faithful that promised
— and all must beJulfilled, which in the end proved
true;* for, although she had such a fever, accom­
panied with such tormenting pains in the bowels and
44>ones, and was not from her bed until the end of
* The Reader is desired to refer to the five first pages of this Book; portico-
lariv the second page, which was written from Joanna on the 3d of September
ana the writing continued until the 17tb; wfien she was to stop, and receive
instnfctibsi preparatory to her illness.
5 9 .
Digitized by Google
the seven days. On the seventh day in the morning;
she was told she was to arise from her bed at four
o’clock, “ the very same hour that the temptations heft
kerby ivords, onlheseventlrday s then soi( shouldleave
her by sickness nows and she should be perfectly
restored and raised up .at four o’clock on that day,”
which, although at that time ill, she mentioned to
Mrs. Field; who, being filled with joy, said she had
a desire to surprise Mr. Sharp, who was always con­
fident of her recovery; and also to have a laugh at
the person who came with him, and who was always
doubtful of her recovery, and often said, “ We will
wait and see.” So she would make up an image in
Joanna’s likeness, and place it in the bed, tp see how
Mr. Sharp would look, seeing his faith disappointed;
and the other to cry out that her faith was right: this
she said she Would do, ifJoanna did not think it a sin;
but Joanna answered, she was afraid it was carrying
ajest too far, as the Lord, in his mercy and goodness,
had raised her up, she thought it their most serious
duty to return him thanks. She said if she thought it
was wrong, she would decline; but Joanna was im­
mediately answered, shemight returnthanks, and per­
mit theo'therftO be done also; for the thing was sim­
ple, but not sinful. So it was put into execution;
and a perfect image, made up of clothes, was put in
the bed that she had risen from, and had retired into
another room, most miraculously restored, as though
she had never b*en ill, so as to tell her friend she was
doubtful whether she was in her senses or not; for
shefe lt no ejfects from her illness. But when Mr. S.
came in the evening, with the doubting person, he
still believed Joanna to be perfectly restored, but in a
sweet sleep, after her recovery; so his faith was not
altered; but the other soon discovered the innocent
cheat, turned away offended, thinking it presumptu­
ous, and done with an intention to caupe fear. But
Mr. Sharp soon found his faith was on a true foundar
tion, and laughed at the innocent invention.- This
.simple thing would never have.been put in print, if it
“
bad not been commanded. It was"explained to her*
.60
Digitized by Google
that they had judged the Lord as-duonb an image sis
that which was put into the bed she rose from; to try
to baffle the faith of those that did believe, and to
strengthen the,unbeliefof mockers: as this must be
done, if the deceit was not found out. Here begins
Jthe manner the Lord spake to her after her illness:
“ Now, Joanna, thee I'll answer.
And with Satan next begin ;
From the sixth day I’d not answer.
Till I did fulfil the thing.
In Wilson’s room, behold thy doom £
He held me to my word ;
And now let Satan dare presume
For to condemn his Lord.
Because you see the mystery,
The truth doth now appear ;
The Shadow first did come to thee*
And now the Substance here
Did surely come; so all was seen,—
Thy sick bed did appear,
And thou hast suffer’d Wilson’s pain ;
But Satan’s arts t
were near;
For to afflict a different stroke,
He surely laid his hand;
Because his God he thought to mock—
Be wise and understand:
Because, like Job, it must be known,
I said he would appear.
Can Satan be a powerful god,
' His wisdom cannot clear?
Did I not say, to thee that day,
Satan should lay his hand
Where’er it was judg'd fit. by hei
Be wise and understand.
And so by lie, you all do see,
Thy body he did afflict,
As I before had said of Job;
So Satan now expect
The coming stroke; for I’ll not mock
Those that believe in me;
% For as the Taith in Sharp was seen,
The end you all shall see;
He did believe I’d not deceive,
But raise the seventh day;
.And though she went to foil the man,
The truth he then did see,
That an Impostor in the bed
Was ptaoed in thy room,
To make him judge thee almost ead.
And mock the faith of roan.
6 *
>
Digitized by Google
But 111 appear to answer here,
There’s no one I do blame;
But to the shadow I shall come,
And put mankind to shame:
Such fools appear, I tell you here,
To mock you all with lies;
And as the shadow she plac'd there,
So fools do all disguise,
To tell you plain, ye sons of men,
Your faith is on the sand ;
And plac’d a shadow in my room,
To wound the faith of man;
But when you come to see it plain,
The shadow doth appear;
But now the substance I’ll maintain,
Is what I said before.
He that believ’d was not deceiv’d,
But laugh’d the truth to see;
But she that stood in unbelief
Offended seem’d to be,
That she was mock’d, the other jok’d ;
But here the lines go deep;
For as Ike shadow then did come,
The end of all will break :
Those that believe won’t be deceiv’d,
By any artful ^hand;
Ana they will laugh at every way
TheyVe baffled been by man;
' But those that"doubt, when they find out
How they were mocked there,
May then in anger all stand out,
To see what fools they were,
To judge that I, who dwell on high,
Will not fulfil my word!
A boasted zeal they may begin,
And say “ w% judg’d our Lord
€t Would never come in such a form,
4
< In jesting to appear.”
But how my Gospel do you scorn ?
JVhen I arose, see clear, *
I did go on to jest with man,
And me they did not know.
Until they had constrained me,
That I with them should go.
So men must come and now constrain
And hold me to my word;*
And then you all shall know my name.
And then behold your Lord.
* Thii allude*to the Disciplerof Christ at Emman*
62
Digitized by Google
So HI end here, and say no more,
But to the purpose come ;
Men’
s testing, I nave answered here,
Is like the women done:
To mock, the faith of prudent men*
Like her you place the sign;
To mock the io^s, and ignorant men,
1’ll own the jest is mine.
So let the fable to appear.
As ’lis a type of man;
For fools do mock my followers here,
By Satan’s artful hand.
So it was I that work’d on she,
To shew the mystery plain ;
The very thing that she had done,
Was like the sons of men—
Who would make men believe the word of God
was as dead, and like the image she put in thy room i
for just so have the ministers placed my Bible, that
could neither see, hear, or speak ; and so they have
judged their God! for 1 must be like the image she
placed in thy stead, if all these wondrous writings
and truths had come round in -such erder without
my Spirit and direction; hut as thou wast in the
inner room, perfectly risen in health and strength,
according to Sharp’s faith; perfectly so shall he find
his God, not as the ignorant world, who say, *
«Since
the fathers fell asleep, all things remained as they
were”—judging there is no more knowledge in the
Most High than there was in the image she made up.
But let all men know, the substance was a living wit­
ness, close by; and so close am I to all your faith and
unbelief. Those that have believed will find the world
have imposed upon them to mock their faith; but
the unbelievers will be hurt to find I have mocked
their unbelief; so now let the living lay it to heart;
for they have placed me and my Bible perfectly like
the^image they placed of thee, to mock the faith of
believers, and strengthen the unbeliefof fools. Sim-
{
)le as this may appear to the world, let it go in print
or it is perfectly like what men have likened me to. •
So now to men I’ve shew’d the plan.
How you your Bibles place;
And now to Satan I shpll come.
Who did his Lord disgrace, *
Digitized by Google
No, no, the fool will find me nigh,
And the sixth day appear:
He’ll surely know the truth is so,
I kept him for this day;
His punishment he now shall know,
And like his word, I say,
Such harden'd being he appear’d ;
He held me to my word,
That I with pain should visit thee,
But now he’ll feel the rod.
For I’ll appear, in anger here,
Just like the words he spoke ;
For the sixth day I now shall clear,
And there the fool shall drop ;
And then I’ll rest, and man possess,
As I have said before.
Just like the Circle now he’s plac’d,
And let the sign appear;
He’s circled round with every sound,
The Cross throughout doth stand :
The four Crosses do appear,
He fatally brought on man.
You see the first when man was cast;
What Cross did then appear !
And when the World I all condemn’d,
And brought the Deluge here,
What Cross for Man there then did come.
And Satan brought on all!'
Now Sodom and Gomorrah see,
What Cross on them did fall!
When fire from heaven did appear.
The flames they could not miss;
For they were so encircled there—
And Satan’s doom is cast
To be like them ; it now must come 5
For i xvetUthrough the whole/*
And then you see the Cross to be,
Jerusalem did fall! 1
Encompass’d round with every soundj
The Heathen took the place.
So, Satan, see thy destiny;
For this is now thy case.
The W oman she did stand my friend—
Let Pilate’s Wife appear;
And now I’ll be a Friend to she,
And thou thy Judge shalt tear.
* The great Cross, within the Circle, is the Cross of Christ, who suffered for
the whole. The four Crosses which fell on Mao; viz. his fall firoro the D ivine
Image at first; the Deluge; Sodom and Gomorrah j the Destruction o f Jeru­
salem, in consequence of the Death of our Lord, who bore all U Man. This*
Irote is only made for the Reader to attend to the Figure in Page 56.
Digitized by C ^ o o Q l e
Thy M aster here I'll now appear,
And that thou’it surely find;
Thy Trial now is hastening near
Thy fetters I shall biud9
I tell thee, strong before 'tis long—
Both Sheep do now appear,
That thou art murdering by thy hand,-*
And now I'll Answer here.
65
Satan, Satan! how wilt thou appear ?
And in thefifty-fourth page see clear,
Where thou condemn'dst the Lord is now come true;
And Wilson’s illness bring before thy view;
For she hath suffered all of Wilson’s pain,
Her head afflicted did one week remain;
And after that in arts thou didst appear
To wound with pain her body most severe.
So as one truth so hasty now has come,
1 tell thee plam, the other will come on;
And so already thou’st begun to fall;
And from thy words I now shall answer all.
If she had forg'd ray Name she’d been undone,
And never liv'd to see the morning sun.
When on her sick bed thou didst so appear,
To pull her lifeless from it on the floor;
Dead to all feeling was my Handmaid plac’d ;
Dead to all knowledge of the death she did taste;
And there advantage thou didst surely gain;
She neither felt her sufferings or her pain,
When on the floor she gasping there did lie—
Tremble,O Satau, 1 was standing by,
When thou didst go to pull her from the bed,
And on the floor her body there thou’st laid;
And sick 1 know thou mad*siher to the.heart;
And tbou, O Satan, now shalt feel my dart.
Weigh thou her answers, speaking for her Lo r d ;
Weigh thou her life what she hath all gone through;
N o Woman like her on the earth l know,
In upright dealings now with God and man ;
Then now, O Satan, trembling thou shalt stand:
For here, I say, shall thy proud waves be stay’d—
It 19 not she hath room to be afraid: *
For I must act unworthy of a God,
If on thy head I do not cast the rod.
To see my friend so wounded for wiy sake,
Her Love to me shall now make mine to break
With fury on thee, as thou didst appear
With all thy threatening?, thou thyself shalt bear.
E
Digitized by Google
For now her Character I'll give to men,
What is scal'd up, and then behold her hand.
If such a Woman ever did dpiw breath,
Since I created man, and form'd the earth ;
For of her virtues I'll begin to boast,
And show you plain when all her Seals do burst,
That more than Woman she must tben appear,
If you do not confess her Lord is there.
For Men and Devils she has strong withstood,
And all her conduct I'll pronounce is good :
For as her Judge I surety do appear;
If from herself alone her virtues are;
Tben 1 may blush to view the human race,
That in their conduct do their Lo r d disgrace;
Who do profess to praise my holy name,
And yet they often put their Lord to shame,
By many follies I do see in men;
But in this Woman, form'd by nature's plan
That you, vain fools, do judge her for to be;
Then how can Grace and Nature now agree,
If she in virtue do outshine you all,
Without my Spirit? judge her every call
And see it Natwe brings you better fruit
Than Grace can render; O! ye fools, stand mute.
When all her life is laid before your view,
You must confess her character is true;
Beyond all women doth in virtue shine;
And teil me if this Spirit is not mine?
Or will you answer, No; she is too good
To have a Spirit ever like her God ;
Then sure like Satan you must all appear,
Condemn your God, the Creature now to clear, #
To shine in virtue brighter than mankind;
And say thatiNature ail these virtues binds,
Without a spirit ever come From heaven*
I ask you, who this Spirit to her hath given ?
And will you answer, “ why it came from hell*
Where the infernal host in rage do dwell,
In pride and envy, and in malice great,
With every subtle art, and all deceit;
With lies and murder, and of every ill,
And with all evil he men's hearts doth fill ?
But here is a heart from every vice is free;*
Vain fools, appear and instant answer me,
If unto Satan you will give such praise,
To say Ms charted, and hath reform'd his ways l
• It is to be remarked, that Joanna was prepared fromher birth by th e Divine
Spirit, which makes her by no means assume any superiority above O liv e rs, bat
•he fells it her duty to be humble.
66
Digitized by Google
Then s\\ the vices you roust say is in Man,
And so the World at once you all condemn,
If you will say this Woman came from hell,
That doth in virtue all her sex, excel.
Because her Life l 9
li bring before your view,
And you shall own my words are perfect true:
That she in virtue doth you all outshine,
When you do Know the Mysteries lie behind;
Because her Life hath all*been hid with God;
And all her foes shall tremble at my rod;
Because my fury they will surely heat;
For in this Woman there is no Deceit.
And this I bid thee publish now to man,
And soon Til prove it by thy written hand;
Which men will see when all thy Seals are broke,
And then let'Satan tremble at the stroke:
For if my murder I did him forgive,
I never will the injuries done to thee ;
Because my love thou didst prefer to man's,
When in thy youth thy passions they were strong;
And now, my love I will return to thee,
Much greater love than e'er in man could b e;
As for my sake thou hast renounced all;
And from thy mother's womb I thee did gall;
And from the Name was given unto thee,
So Mary and Joanna let them see,
Whose names were mention'd when I did arise;
And now, ye sons of men, you must grow wise;
Because it was my Mother and my Bride,
To whom these Names to all must be applied*
Now see Joanna, how she doth appear ;
In every volume you her Name see clear,
That she is come to testify of me ;
And now two Marys* let the public see;
That at the first thou didst these things reveal,
And let them know, thy Name is in the Seal;
And show the second S t a r doth now appear;
And mark th£C, and let the Seal appear,
I tell thee, to be printed in this book;
And in my Bible let the public look ;
For as my Resurrection did appear,
The stone was roll'd, and the Seals broke there;
So when thy Seals by Man is surely broke,
Then, Satan, thou shall tremble at the stroke:
♦ The two persons to whom Joanna 6rst eoramamcated this knowledge, m
1792, were two female friends, both of whose Christian names were Mary.
See St. Lake, chap. 24, the 10th and following verees to the end of the chap*
ter. Also St John, chap, 19, verse 25.
£ 2
67
Digitized by Google
Because the stone shall now be roll’d on Hell,
And seal thy doom, where thou shalt surely dwell.
For now such Mysteries I will open here—
And let theJive andfiftieth page appear :
And then, like Satan, I shall now begin,
To open mysteries man hath never seen:
And all the truth to man 1 now will prove,
Of all my words, and man shall know my love;
„ And plain I’ll make the whole before your eyes,
And open mysteries will you all surprise.
You know my Coat it was without a Seam,
And so 1 tell you, Man 1*11 now redeem :
No seam of sorrow will I leave for Man,
But interwoven now you’ll find my plan ;
That is, iny friends I’ll interweave them through,
And the Creation bring before their view;
Because I come to do my Father’s Will;
And now is the time I will the whole fulfil.
Man’s happiness n e did pronounce at first,
And now is the time Man’s happiness shall burst;
Lord of this Earth I surely did him make,
And now is the time that promise it shall break.
But how can Man be call’d the lord below,
While Satin, as a god, his power doth show ?
But now his Power 1 will all destroy,
And Man and I together will enjoy
The whole Creation now without a seam.
I’ll cut off sorrow, and I’ll cut off sin ;
And like my garment all the Earth shall be,
And interwoven In o n e V i n e with M s ;
And my Delight shall surely be with Man;
And now, my brethren, see my every plan;
To open mysteries deep before your eyes,
I’ve seal’d the tomb that soon shall make you wise
And mark Joanna that doth to you appear,
And tell you mysteries I shall shortly clear.
And to the jijty-si*thpage now I’ll come.
In Satan’s words I’ll answer back again :
Because a liar I will never Fear;
In the beginning now his lies 1*
1
1 clear;
He really thought to mock the God of Heaven,
When the Creation unto Man was given ;
He really thought for to destroy them all,
And the creation as his own to call;
Because if Man did disobey like he,
He thought the Earth for him must then be free.
But here hkekvn Man never disobey’d—
But they, through Ignorance, artfully were betray*d:
66
Digitized by Google
That Good from Evil they might surely kno^v,
And be as gods in goodness here below;
Then now as gods I’ll make them to appear;
And unto Satan’s words 1’lhhold him here.
For Men as Gods they now shall be below,
And Good from Evil now tjiey all shall know;
And those that join close to the Woman’s hand,
In knowledge of the goodfruit they shall stand;
But those that do refuse for to appear
To sign their hands, and will not join with her.
Then by the evilfruit they all must fall,
In Eve's transgressions, now I tell you all.
For the Bonds-women 1 shall ail cast out,
And all their sons that with them now do doubt;
Because the Woman here I’ve made her free,
And all my Heirs I know will join with she;
Because the good fruit they will wish to know,
And have the knowledge of their God below ;
*And all my words they then shall find them true.
I’ll bring another mystery to your view:
To clear my honour I cannot free Man,
But by the Woman, as I’ve laid my plan ;
Because I said Man’s bliss she should complete ;
Another way Satan would prove deceit.
So if he's freed according to my word,
Let Satan now appear and answer God,
Why did he tell her that they should not die,
But be as gods, and now give me the lie,
To say that I did then go from my word ? ‘
I tell him now he’ll feel my glittering sword.—
TwoJifferent ways he to the Woman came:
At first he said no Death was in the name;
That is, I say, if she did eat the fruit;
And now the serpent he shall sure stand mute;
Because his God he now hath given the lie,
And said the Woman was pronounc'd to die.
Then for his murder let him to appear;
A liar and a murderer I’ll not clear;
So if I did forgive him for the first,
I never will forgive him for the last:
And he shall kuow and feci I am a God,
That will net bear the words from what ha said ;
No, no; my honour I’ll begin to clear;
One way or other thou the guilt shait bear.
Thou say'st thou aim’dst at murder at the first,
And here thou threatenest murder at the last;
And such companions I had got in heaven;
And by such arts from thence they all were driven
69
Digitized by Google
And such companions men have got on earth!
And Ms for gold! it often bring$ on death ;
To rob, to murder, and to every ill,
I see the golden orbs men's hearts do fill;
Therefore the golden orbs I'll all destroy,
And all the D ust in harmony enjoy;
In heavenly splendour I the earth will place,
And like a paradise I'll make this race;
In every heavenly beauty they shall surely shine,
And love and harmony shall be in every mind,
When all thy golden orbs I've took away.
And now, O Satan, hear what I do say:
Before thy God thou'rt summon'd to appear,
And answer for thyself the question here.
Thou sa /st that God did tell the lie at first;
Then here my fury shall upon thee burst:
Not like the Woman will I answer here,
But like thy awn word* I shall now appear,
And in plain words I shall with thee begin,
And see if I such wretch shall ever screen.
Now, Joanna, hitherto the Lord hath been echo­
ing back his lines in verse to Satan, as he hath to
m en; but now he is come to plain terms with the
Devil, and to answer the Fool according to his folly.
Begin at the mark made forhim at the sixth day’s dis­
pute. Satan said he preserved theefor the last day’s
punishment; and for the last day’s punishment the
Lord hath preserved him: seeing what a hardened
wretch he is, the Lord will dealwith him accordingly;
for he shall not have the last word of his Master, but
find the Lord is his M aster. And so 6ure as the
Lord hath made thee ill fn Wilson’s room, so sure
shall Satanfall in myroom :.and he shallAnowandfeel
that I, J esus, the Son of the most b ig h God, will
fulfil mypromise made to Man for his Red em ptio n ,
and to Satan for his Destruction. Now let his faith
be shaken! For on thy sick bed I shewed thee how I
would gather in my people, as a hen gathereth her
brood under her wings; and as the birds flew on thy
arms; so let them trust to the arms of ray mercy:*
for now will men be flocking unto Jesus, as doves
• See the Dream of catching Pigeons and Partridges, page 58.
70
Digitized by Google
71 .
' . ' *
to the windows. Iniquity wijl abound, and grace
will abound; but he that holds out to the end shall
be saved, and have his part in the Tree of L ife ; for
now the murderer shall be destroyed. 1 said if these
things wasdone in the Green Tree, what shall be done
in the Dry Tree t If I, that knew no sin, was cruci­
fied for man, what shall Satan suffer, that was the au­
thor of all sin ? If thou didst lie lifeless or senseless
on the floor, for my honour and great name, to ma-
. nifestthe truth to.mankind; how lifeless .and sense­
less shall Satan become to all men! I now tell thee,
O Satan, 1 will make thee as senseless of the know­
ledge of men, as thou madest my handroaid:to-the
knowledge ofherself, when she lay sickon the floor;
and so will I now make thee; for I will make thee
sick with smiting thee,, and make thee desolate, be-
. cause of thy sins, that are more in number than fhgf
sands on the sea shore. And so thou hast jpoyofeg^;
the wrath of the Lord against thee, and now I an-,
swer from thy own words— Hell is thy portion
forthou shalt not continue on earth to boast of power
superior to thy Lord. Thou foundest thyself deceiv­
ed already in Heaven, and now thou wilt find thy­
self as surely deceived again here upon earth. For
the heavens be God’s throne, and he cast thee from,
thence; the earth is his footstool, and thou canst not
have any seat here with the Lord. When he cornea
to fill thee^rth with his goodness, he will then fill-
hell with hi$ terrors. Now, Satan, thy terrors shall;
come upon thee,, as thou threatenedst this handmaid;
of mine; for here is a sin I will never forgive thee,
in this world, nor that which is to come. Has she.
not only ventured her life, and left all she had in ,
this world to follow me ? Friends, interest, and all­
dependence, she left to obey my commands; and,
as thou sayest, “ brought herself to poverty for my
sake,’’ All this she hath done at first; and when
she was separated from her friends at home, and;
surrounded by faithless friends, and malicious foes
Digitized by Google
vet in this trying hour, alone and by herself, ran the
hazard of being accursed for my sake, sooner than
submit to lose my honour as a.God: she said in her
heart, she would sooner judge there was no God, ,
than judge there was a faithless God: she judged
mb all good, and all good she shall find me. Thou
sayest, Satan, I am all that was bad, and so thou
shalt find me : I will not contend with thee for my
Honour, but for J u stic e , that now demands thy
guilty crimes to fall on thy head ! Look back on thy
words, and tremble, as a murderer when he locks on
the person he hath murdered, and sees the judge ap­
pear to condemn him -, for now I tell thee, every
threateningthou hast breathedout against this Hand­
maid ofmine, shall now fall back upon thyown head.
Dost thou say God is a liar ?Then now 1 will be the
God oftruth: thyhead shall now be bruised, and thy
curse above every living creature; thy footing here on
earth shall be taken from thee; and as thou didst
cause a pain in herbowels, tocause her to liesenseless
on the floor, so shalt thepain inthy bowels be;onthy
bellythou shalt go, and fall headlong down to thyfide
palace 5there set up thygolden orbs in hell;and hbUd
thy palace with thy gold; and I will draw forth a glo­
rious Earth with the Dust. So now thou shalt not tear
a liar, but fear the God of truth, who made man in
my own likeness; and in my own likeness he was'be­
trayed and crucified;and as thou didst set the angels
in heaven at variance, so thou settest men on earth
atvariance; and now theearthisin the same confused
state the heavenswere in; some on my side, and some
on thine, through unbelief. As the angel;, that fell,
did notjudge I should cast them out of'heaven, that
joined thee Satan, so thou temptest men to believe I
never shall cast thee from the earth, nor ever bring in
a heaven here for man; but now I tell, thee and all
mankind, this Earth shall be renewed to a Paradise
and a place of rest for men that trust in me. So now,
Satan, this is thy doom, as thou thoughtest to rob me
• 72
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
of the creation at once, so will I rob thee of all at
once j and as thou sowest discord amongst mankind,
sowill I sow discord amongst thee and those thou hast
betrayed;for thy destruction now is sure. Thou say-
est,thougoesttothe woman with murderinthyheart;
and now her blood ison thy head; thousayest, I ought
not to cast them out of Eden, knowing what a wretch
betrayed them ; then now I will show mercy to man
that trusteth to me for mercy; I will show pity to man
that looketh to me forpity. As I knew whata wretch
betrayed them, so now, Satan, thy reign is short, and
thou hast but a little space before thou shalt find mb
the God of truth; and I will send my angel to chain
thee down for a thousand years, and set a seal on thee,
. as I have begun to set the seal on my people; for as
. thou sayest thou despisestmy mercy, my mercy thou
shalt never tind. Thou hast spoken what was in thy
heart, and let men bear witness against thee : thou
sayest thou art betrayed by a woman ; then know, a
woman was betrayed by thee; for now I tell thee,
Satan, I will bring on thy head every threateningthou
breathedst out against my Handmaid. Thou sayest,
thou hast showed thyselfa completedevil—thou hast
done a thing that will never be forgiven in this world,
nor in that which is to come: thy violence in assault­
ing so faithful a servant. And as she stood out in such
faith and courage,it shall for ever rest as a blessing on
all women that believe in her ; for as Eve’s disobedi­
ence rested on the one hand, so shall her obedience
rest on the other,from generation to generation, until
time is on more. So say not that she only i»blessed;
for all are blessed that believe in her; for they that
believe in her must believe in me ; for it is my word,
not her words; it is my Spir it , not her spirit, whom
ye believe in—and whom men persecute also s for they
have opened all my wounds afresh, and put me again
to an open shame.—Now answer for thyself to rhe
public, the manner of thy life and faith, and then I
will answer thee again.”
7
3
Digitized by Google
Now I shall begin to answer for myself thus pub­
licly tothe unbelief of ignorant people. Some say my
writingsare frommyselt,ofa spirit possessed ofadevil;
others judge it really from the devil, coming in
every character, both good and bad. So they judge
the devil has come to me like an actor on the stage*
who changes his clothes,and acts many different cha­
racters ; and sometimes the man comes in the charac-.
ter of a woman, and the woman inthe character of a
man; sc one person acts many different characters;
and just so the ignorant and unlearned have judged
the devil comes to me. O simple and unwise! hereis
the truth of my writings and the Bible together; for
it is written by the prophet, “ that in the latter days
darkness w ill cover the earth and gross darkness A e
eyes o f the people* For the book of God is like a
book that is sealed, that neither the learned nor the
unlearned could read; for the Lord saith by the pro­
phet, “ In the'latter days I shall do marvellousthings
amongst them; for the wisdom of the wise men.shatt
perish,and the understanding ofthe prudent manstaU
be hid; the bows of the mighty men shall be broken,*!
So ye have all drawn out your bows against me in
vain ; for all your bows will be broken, and all
your spears will be snapped asunder; forye have no
knowledge of God or his ways; for ye have judged
God is like the dumb image made in my likeness,
that could neithersee nor hear; perfectly so youjudge
the Loan; and ye have judged me another such as
yourselves, that can mock God, and trifle with eter-.
nity. Such is your judgment of me. Jlut, noatl
shall answer for myself: The fear of theLmdw^s
placed in me from a child, aud I was fearfully made:
my heart was tender within me, and my conscience
also. I not only feared sin, but hated it, and found
no pleasure in any thine, but in the service of the
Lord; my character will bear the strictest scrutiny ;
and so bright did it appear in my early age, that many
that I lived with said, I had not my fellow or lik<^
74
Digitized by L r O O Q l e
amongst women; as my temper was mild and hea­
venly ; my principles honest and uprightin all things.
Such was my character in my earlier days ; but I
found’myself as a sheep amongst wolves; I was sur­
rounded with people that were artful, deceitful,
proud and malicious, with every headstrong and un­
governed passion, more like lions than like Chris­
tians ; and I was hated for being of a different spirit;
as their characters were bad, and mine good ; so I
was hated when I never gave offence; and 6nding
myself surrounded with such people, who made
their own lives unhappy, and all around them ; I
began to determine to shake off the world, and to
live to God, and to God only; and to have my con­
versation in heaven, and all my hopes of happiness
to be centred in the Lord; wishing, w'ith job, I
could go down to the cold chambers of the grave,
where the wicked cease from troubling, and where
the wearybe at rest. I saw no happiness in this world
nor any did I expect; for I have been weary of the
world for more tnan twenty years ; nay, I may say,
forty years longhave I been grieved with a crooked
and perverse generation; for when I was a child I
was weary of the tempers and dispositions of sinful
people; my discernment was deep in my earliest
age; and now let any candid reader judge, if a heart
and mind like.mine would run themselves into the
grossest sins, to dwell with devils and wicked spi­
rits in another world, when I was sick of their vices
jn this. It was a hell to ine to be confined with
wicked people here; then how wretched and miser­
able must I feel my case to be confined with nothing
but wicked people hereafter! The Lord is myjudge
and is witness against you ; the Lord is my law-giver
of whom shall 1 be afraid! So singular hath my life
been in this world, and so many remarkable things
have happened in it, that it was nineteen years ago
I was ordered to write my life, for it should go in
print, and thousands should be convinced bv it; I
then wrote it, but I had no thought that the spirit of
75
Digitized by Google
prophecy would ever be given me; and I was
strongly persuaded by my friends not to put it in
priut then, as they could not see that many thou­
sands could be convinced by it. I gave up to
their persuasions, not being strongly pressed by
the Spirit to put it in print at that time, after I had
written i t ; but when the visitation of the Lord
came so powerfully to me, in 1792, I began to
think ofmy former writings, and was at war with
myself, whether this last might not be like the first,
to write, but not to print; so my jealousy made me
spend my time in tears and prayers, that the Lord „
would not permit a wrong spirit to deceive. I will
not say 1 had no doubts arise in my mind, as every
thing 1 was told appeared very unlikely to come to
pass; yet the manner of my visitation sometimes
made my faith as strong as the mountains; at other
times jealousy alarmed my breast, fearing the de­
vil might come as an angel of light to deceive m e;
as I am not unacquainted with the devices of Sa­
tan ; for he hath as much power to speak to the
hearing of the ear, as he hath to have an influence
over the heart. So my faith was mixed with fear,
which made me to be in fervent prayer to the Lord
that he would not suffer me to be deceived by a
wrong spirit; repeated signs of truth were set before
me, to assure me my callingwas of God; butm any^
of my writings were hard to be understood, and full *
as hard to be believed: but the severe threatenings-
prouounced against me, if I drew back through un-»
belief, made me persevere, as I was injuring none
but myself, if my writings were not of God ; but
if they were of God, I knew they were for the
good of all who believed in them ; and the strict­
est of justice I found in the Spirit that directed
me. I xvas ordered to seal up my writings in
17 9 2 ; but not to keep them in my possession ;
and my writings after, I was ordered to seal up
every year, and to have witnesses to sign "them;
and I was ordered to send letters to ministers, of
76
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
events, before they came to pass, every year, from
1796 to 1800. But the standard for men to be clear
judges, that they could not be deceived, was fixed
by the wonderful vision I saw in 1794 ;* when I was
told, that when twelve chosen men should meet toge­
ther to break the Seals, then the Lord would make
every crooked path straight before them, and the
truth be as clear as the noon day sun; and such signs
were then given me that should happen at that time,
that no man could err. Now such justice and equity
I haveneveryet-foundin man; andl can neverbelieve
it is in the devil, though some worldly-wise men are
led to believe it;for he must have risen against him­
self; then how will his kingdom stand ?Is Satan come
to tell me thathiswhole nature islike the serpent when
he appeared to Eve at first?For such he is represented
throughout my writings; though some of my readers
do not believe him so bad, but judge men are their
own devil O, madmen and fools, how hath Satan
bewitched you!what mad judgment have ye drawn!
I grant the wind bloweth where it listeth,ye hear the
sodnd thereof, but cannottell from whence it cometh,
or whither it goeth; so is every one that is bom of
the Spirit; ana so it is to me ;and I judge of the spirit
by its truth, that it came from the Lord, as he saith.
But some are so ignorant to judge my writings are of
myself; I must be bold to.say that they are both proud,
vain and conceited, to think that dust and ashes could
invent such writings as mine are ; and bring all so
' close to the Bible, and so full of truths; which is more
than all men on earth could do, if they had all So­
lomon’s wisdom. So let no man give such merit or
wisdom to me; for as distant as the heavens are from
the earth, so distant are my writings from any know­
ledge, wisdom, or understanding of my own: and
were I so proudandvain a fool to sayit was of myself,
I should judge the Lord would take my senses from
me; so men Ofwisdom must see they come from a su­
periorpower toman,and placed by jujtice more than I
* See Strange Effects ©f Faith, page 17.
7
7 ■
Digitized b
y
Google
findin min They havejudged me withoutknowledge,
according to the deceitfulness of their own Itearts;
but I have not so learned of Christ, as to mock God,
and deal deceitfully with men ; and I should not have
penned the mannerof my life, i f lhad not been order­
ed, to convince mankind I teas bornfo r what I tan.
So a religious life I do not consider as any merit due
to myself, but give unto the Lord the glory due unto
bis namejokogave mea heart tohatesinJrommy child­
hood: and yet to my shame, I have one ruling sin I
cannot conquer; and that isaresenting spirit, where I
have been used ill; but can venture my life for those
who use me well. My readers may say, if I am a
true Christian I ought to forgive every one. I an­
swer, our Saviour said, if thy brother offend seven
times a day, and seven times a day say he repents,
thou shalt forgive him; and so can I freely. We are
commanded to pray to the Lord to forgive us our
trespasses as we forgive them that trespass against
us: now we cannot expect the Lord will forgive us
our trespasses unless we repent; and by repentance I
can forgive the greatest enemy. But though I bring
scripture to clear myself, I do not justify myself in so
strongly resentingaispirit; it is a sin that hasmortified
me ever since I began to write; I have often been
compelled to act contraryto my own natural evil, and
fight against myself; so lhave nothing toboast of: it
was the unbounded love of God who drew my heart
to run after him, before I had any knowledgeof him;
so it is the Lord's goodness that hath made me what
I am; but let no one say I am self-iighteous; fori
may say, blessed be the rod of the Lord, that crossed
me in every thing in this world, that I might not set
my heart upon it, but seek for happiness in him
alone:it is the c rosses, disappointments, andcruelties
of this wqrld, that made me seek all my happiness in
the Lord; and I always found him a .God hearing
and answering prayer; and I have found the truth or
his words for more than twenty years; the Lord
7
8
Digitized by t ^ o o Q l e
never did deceive me, and he never wiH. But do
myreadersjudge iflhad not been acquainted with the
ways of the Lord, before the Spirit of Prophecy was
given me, that my faith would lead me to leave my
work, spend my time and money,to write things that
then seemed to me as unlikely to come true as the
most distant thing ? But I have found the truth of the
Lord, concerning myself, for near twenty years be­
fore ; so I judged concerning the nations, and the
truths have followed for eleven years, as I have fre­
quently observed in my writings; and as the past
have come true, 1judge the future all will takeplace,
• however unlikely it may appear; and the wondrous
manner I have lately been restored from a sick bed
confirms my faith. Here I have given a short ac­
count of the manner of my life, and find the world
perfectly like the judgment 1had found for yearspast.
79
Now the world I bid farewell,
For now I plainly see
The hearts of men, in chequer'd lines,
Lie open unto m e:
For now the world 1 plainly see
Incolours black and white ;
Farewell, vain world, adieu to me,
For God is my delight!
Here I shall mention two particular instances that
happened to me when a child, as they are explained
by the Spirit. One was my reading about Peter’s de­
nying or Christ, which made me often go into a gar­
den of my father’s, that was like a grove shaded by
trees, at a small distance from the house; where I
went in prayer that I might never do as Peter did, to
deny Christ. The other instance was from an acci­
dent ; I wasslidingupon the ice on a large pondbelon­
ging to my father,when I came to the further end the
ice broke and I fell in and went under,and must have
been drowned, had not my father, who was in his
barn threshiug, seen me, and immediately rau to my
Digitized by Google __
relief, and he was obliged to break the ice to get
me out. This simple thing I should not mention had
it not been explained to me by the Spirit; and I have
been wonderfully preserved from being drowned
three times. Now I shall give the answer of the
Spirit to what I have written of myself.
“ Now thou hast ended. I’ll begin—
Awake, ye fallen sons of men!
For now I see you are all asleep ;
Awake, awake, or soon you’ll weep.
All she hath written here is true;
Her Life and Faith no man doth know;
But I, that am enthron’d on high,
Do teil you all she does not lie;
Because 1 tell you she was born
My G ospel T ruths for to perform ;
Became a Spirit she hath got
That Man by Nature knoweth not;
N o vice to conquer it is true,
A Child that’s born my Work to do.
The voice of nature must be free :
Satan coul.1 never dwell in thee;
Because my Spirit I plac’d there:
Ere thou wast born, thy mother’s prayer
1 surely promis’d so should be ;
Like Samuel I have brought up thee
Ever to wait upon the Lord ;
And great they’ll find is thy reward.
So as thy Life is written here,
1 say in print it must appear;
And half the truth is now not told,
What 1 hereafter shall unfold ;
Because my Spiritwas in thee,
When from a child, they all shall see,
Which made thee to the Garden go;
And all thy Life I’ll let them know:
When thou a child didst go in prayer,
And all shall know that I was there :
I saw thy tears, I heard thy tongue;
What from thy infant lips did spring;
And this they’ll find is Foley’s Child,
That he did dream, and so was foil’d ;
Because thou’rt come of riper age,
* And short thy life is on the stage;
Therefore thy Writings they must prove,
And then they’ll find the harmless Dove,
80
Digitized by v ^ i O O Q i e
To bring the Olive Branch of Peaccr
Believers' joy will then increase ;
For then they’ll know, that from a child*
Thy Spirit was by me beguil'd;
And so thy life they'll then trace back,
And know 1 kept thee from the rack,
When to be drowned thou wast near;
But then thy Father did appear*
And quickly sav'd thee by bis hand.
So here’s tlie Dove in Foley's dream;
Thou brvk'st the ice, 9
ti$ broke/ w Mak,
That on the bason it was seen,
That then may rest on Foley’s bead.
So wash your hands, you need not fear,
And quench the thirst that will be laid
On every tbitsty soul that’s there.
“ The Robes of Innocence are found,"
Will be the voice in every sound ;
u We see the D o v e , we see the Child,
“ How Innocence was always foil'd !*'
And it hath been throughout thy life;
Thou’st found a world of sin and strife,
So different from the make of thee,
Which always spoil'd thy harmony.
But when my Kingdom doth appear,
Such spirits will be plenty here;
And then your bliss will be complete;
For I shall surely fioish it.
So now men’s mockery do not fear;
1 know the truth is written here: _
And for my honour it must go
In public print, that all might know
Thnt thou hast serv'd mk from a child.
Thy heart was tender, temper mild,
And from all vice thou sure wast free*:
I know the Cains will envy thee;
Because like Abel thou dost appear;
Thy Innocence I'll surely clear; *
Because the whole I know is true;
And many things before my view,
That make thy virtues bright to sbincw
I'll answer man as I did Cain:
If they in virtue act like thee,
Then so accepted they shall be; *
But if that Sin lies at the door,
Let all their pondering wrath be o’er;
Or else I'll prove they act like hell,
Where the infernal host do dwell;
Who envymerit where 'tis good,
But iu their vices still they stood :
. ’F
8
1
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
And yet they want to have a praise,
Like those thftt fear’d and lov’d my ways*
But this I tell them cannot be;
For God and Belial can’t agree:
And Saints and Sinners are the same.:
Those that do love and fear my name
Are hated by the sous of men,
Whose ways from hell, and act like Cain.
But now the Cains, let them take care;
I tell thetp now 'tis they must fear;
Because a change they now shall see;
'Tis hell must tremble, and not m b ;
T is there the cross shall then be found;
I soon shall shake this earthly ground,
And chain the Rebel to his doom,
And seal him as they seal’d my tomb.
Therefore, ye shepherds now awake;
I say your flocks stand all at stake;
If you so blindly lead them on,
Like sheep for slaughter soon they’ll come ;
And this 1 told you of before—
Dumb dogs my shepherds would appear;
Blind leaders of thp blind are come.
And so the ditch is hastening on;
For Hirelings, I say,you are,
And for your sheep you do not care:
If you the fleece from them can find,
The naked sheep you do not mind.
What storms and tempests do come on,
You make my Bible but a song,
Full of invention and not true;
What 1 have spoke I shall not do—
Is judged by the sons of men :
You wrest ths Scriptures, and contend
That all as fable doth appear; r
The voice of wisdom you do hear
/ Charming in every different 6ouud; .
Yet still the Adder doth abound, '
I plainly see, to stop your ears;
But soon I’ll fill your hearts with fears;
And all my Bible I demand,
An answer from the shepherds’ hands,
If they will prove ’twas ever true?
If I no other work shall do,
Than what I have already done,
My Bible up and down must com e/
• la order for the reader to understand these lines, Joanna had, as it were by
accident, written in licr book from the opposite ends, one part &he began where
the bottom of the other was and when die came to these last lines, half was writ­
ten one way, and the other half the opposite way, meeting in the middle o f the
page; so she had to tom her book to read one half different from th e other.
Thus willthe Lord turn bis Bible to fulfilit.
8
2
Digitized by L i O O Q l e
Justus iby Writings do appear,
And ijiou thyself the words can't clear,
Unless thou turn’st a different way,
And perfect so ray Bible lay."
Here I shall insert the dream of the Rev. T. P.
Foley, as it is alluded to in the preceding poetry,
which was on the 24th September; it was given at
the very time I lay on my sick bed. The dream is as
follows:—“ I thought I was in my bed-room with
the sash open; there came in a most beautifully-co­
loured Dove, and which seemed to be remarkably
tame. It flew to the wash-hand bason, and drank
twice with much eagerness, as if it had been very
thirsty. I thegfthought it remained upon the table,
and stretched out i^s_neck, as if it was satisfied and
delighted. Soon after, to my wonderful surprise,
the bird turned into a most beautiful girl, about
twelve years old, and had on a most elegant and
handsome white crape dress; and I thought I salu­
ted her, and then awoke.”
I shall also insert another dream of my own, on
the 6th October; having received a letter from the
Rev. Stanhope Bruce tne day before, wherein he
writes, that tne Rev. Mr. Mossop complained of-the
rubbish, that he said was in my writings; which
ought to be parted. In the night I dreamt I was neat
a shelving bank; there was a large square board
that stood against the bank, within something like a
tray, about four yards each way; the upper part was
Filled with meal, that seemed to stick to the board;
for'although it was nearly upright, none of the
meal fell, which was covered all over with dust;
there was a lady who wanted some of the meal, or
flour, but none o f the dust. I thought I struck the
board with a stick, and all the dust rolled off like a
cloud by itself. I then took a broom and swept it
away; next the bran came down, which I threw
out for the pigs; lastly, the fine flour came down
itself, I said to the lady, this is the way I have
f 2
83
Digitized by Google^
parted it; for you notv see the fine flour come down
by itself. Oh, she said, you have a very good way,
for I should have never thought of doing that; it is
nicely parted; the dust is blown away; the bran is
given to the pigs; and I should now like to have
some of the fine flour, which is left behind. Here I
shall give the answer of the Spirit to this dream.
“ Now this Dream to thee 1*11 answer,—
And let Mossop to appear,
He shall find I am thy Master,
And the mysteries will make clear.
Both, thou didst see, were placed by me
To shew the perfect sign;
And close to it the whole did siidfc,
But here the truth they’ll find.
When I begin to shew you plain
The Flour it is here;
I’ll strike my rod, it shall be known,
And all the Dust I’ll clear
To fly away, you all shall see;
For so my broom shall Come;
And then the Bran, that’s judged by man,
The Pigs may feed thereon;
And then behind, you all shall find,
/ The Flour Will appear;
And then my wisdom all will see,
That no man now can clear.
My Bible's true, bring to your view.
But like the dust become;
The mysteries there's no man doth know,
What faith they hang upon.
But in the Dust is all their trust,
The mysteries don’t discern,
That all these things must fly away,
' To make the Flour come.
Gross darkness here doth now appear,
My Prophet did foretei;
And darkness 1 have told thee here,
It in men’s hearts would swell.
Where I speak plain to simple men,
The truth they cannot see;
Where I speak high they give the lie;
And now the dust yuu’ll see
✓ D all in Men; for I’ll speak plain,
They like the dust appear.
84
Digitized by Google
Some foolish fancies fill their heads,
' My Bible noae can cleat.
It is tpo high for n>eu, I see;
They do not understand
That all the dust must fly away,
And then Til show the Bran
That doth appear; I now shall clear*
The pigs may eat the bran;
But those that do believe thee here,
They’ll find the flour to come;
And then they’ll say to thee that day,
That wisely thou hast done;
Thqy never cgu|d bjivp thought suqh
T
V
> try. what was in jpan;
And shew them plain, from every sign,
Their senses they were fled;
Wrong was the judgment in mankind,
And proves that they were
To every knowledge of their God,
And all Perfection here; *
Dead to thg footsteps they have trod,
As l have said before." ’
Here I shall give in plainwords, a,s it was an­
swered in prose and verse. “ The heard is my biblej
the flour that stuck close to it are thy writings; for
though it stood almost upright, it did not fall; the
dust that covered it was the unbeliefof mankind; the
bran that was with it is the husk for the devil to
eat; for he hath been feeding man with busk, from
his fall until this day; as no one hath been without
his sorrows. The fine flour, that is behind, is what
is in store for believers. When I come to part the
whole, the unbelievers will roll down as a cloud,
and pass away as a thick cloud; then cometh the
busk for the devil to feed on; and then cometh the
fine flour, that is left behind for those that believe.
And now cometh my Gospel: those that hear these •
sayings of mine-, and believe them, are like a wise
man, who built his house upon a rock, and the winds
blew and the storms beat, it fell not, for it was
founded on a rock; "but he that heareth these say
ings of mine, and ktepeth them not, is like a foolish
man, who built his bouse on the sand, that when
8
5
Digitized by Google
the storms beat, and the winds blew, it fell, and
great was the fail thereof ! And so they will fall
like the dust, and the wind will carry them away;
for they will be swept offwith the besom of destruc­
tion : then will those that believe in me and my
Gospel, and that I shall redeem them according to
. my promise, have nothing but fine flour to feed on,
both spiritual and temporal; for their peace shall
flow as a river, and my Spirit shall descend as a
mighty stream. Now I will come to the rubbish
in thy writings: let men sweep offthe bran when all
is fulfilled; then let the fine flour remain. I spoke
highly by my prophets, which stumbled the Jews;
I nave spoke simply by thee, and it stumbles the
Gentiles; though I said with the simple i should
dealsimply; but none discern the truthof my Bible:
for the wisdom of God is foolishness with man; so
they prove the truth; but the wisdom of man is
foolishness with me ; for they stumble in visions,
and err in judgment; and there is no judgment in
their goings. For I said, like the days of Noah
and Lot, so will the coming of the Son of M an
be. I said, at my second coming I should scarce
find faith on the earth; and they no more believe
I shall fulfil my Bible, than they believe thy wri­
tings : for if they believe my sayings, they must be­
lieve thy sayings; but if they believe not thy say-»
ings, they cannot believe mine. And now let my
sayings appear; did I not tell you, the time shall
come when your redemption shall draw near ? Did
I not tell you, all shall grow together until the har­
vest? then I will gather my wheat into the garners,
and burn up thechatf with unquenchable fire. Did
I not tell you, if the days were not shortened, no
flesh would be saved: but for the elect sake they
shall be shortened ? Now ifyou believe me and my
gospel, explain my meaning, why I compared the
kingdom of heaven to every thing here on earth
Did I not tell you, I came not to destroy the Jaw
of God, or the prophets,' but tofu fil them ; for this*
8
6
87
generation should not pass away till all was fulfil*
led ? Now look to the Prophets, and see i f ever
they were fulfilled.
Zechariah, ix. 10. “ And he shall speak peace
unto the heathen: and his dominion shall be from
sea to sea, and from the river even to the ends of
the earth.”
M icah, iv. 4. "They shall sit every man under
his vine, and under his fig-tree, and none shall
make them afraid: for the mouth of the Lord of
hosts hath spoken it.”
5. For all people will walk every one in the .
name of his G od; and we will walk in the name of
the Lord our God for ever and ever.”
3. “ And he shalljudge among many people, and'
rebuke strong nations afar off; and they shall beat,
theirswords into plough-shares, and theirspearsinto
pruning-hooks: nation shall notliftupsword against
nation, neither shall they learn war any more.”
E z e k ie l , xxxix. 29. “ Neither will I hide my
4ace any more from them;for I have poured out my
spirit upon the house of Israel, saith the Lord God.”
xxxvi. 24. “ For I will take you from among the
heathen; and gather you out of all countries, and
will bring you into your own land.”
25. “ Then I will sprinkle clean water upon you;
- and ye shall be clean: and a new heart also willT
give you; and a new spirit will I put within you.”
35. “ And they shall say, this land that was de­
solate, is become like the garden of Eden; and the.
waste, and desolate, and ruined cities, are become-
fenced, and are inhabited.”
36. “ I the Lord have spoken it, and I will do it.”
xxxiv. [The shepherds are threatened in this
chapter for the carelessness of their flocks; but the .
flocks are promised to be saved.]
28. “ And they shall no more be a prey to the
heathen, but they shall dwell safely; and none shall
make them afraid.”
Isaiah, xl. 5. “ And the glory of the Lord shal
Digitized by Google ....
foe revealed, and all flesh shall see it together ; for.
the mouth of the Lord hath spoken it.”
31. “ But they that wait upon the Lord shall re­
new their strength ; they shall mount up as with
the wings of an eagle; they shall run, and not be
weary; and they shall walk, and not be faint.”
xlv. 22. “ Look unto me, and be ye saved, all
the ends of the earth; for I am God, and there is
none else.”
23. “ I have sworn by myself, the word is gone
out of my mouth in righteousness, and shall not
return: that unto me every knee shall bow, and
every tongue shall swear.”
25. “ In the Lord shall all the seed of Israel be
justified; and shall glory.”
lii. 1. “ Awake, awake, put on thy strength, O
Zion, put on thy beautiful garments, O Jerusalem,
the holy city: for henceforth there, shall no more
Comeunto thee the uncircumcised,and the unclean.”
10, “ The Lord hath made bare his holy arm in
the eyes of all the nations; and all the ends of the
earth shall see the salvation of our God.”
14. “ As many’were astonished at thee; (his vi­
sage was so marred, more than any man, and his
form more than the sons of men.)”
15. “ So shall he sprinkle many nations; the
kings shall shut thfir mouths athim: forthat which _
_
had not been told them shall they see; and that
which they had not heard shall they consider.”
lv. 12/ “ For ye shall go out with joy, and be
led forth with peace: the mountains and the hills
shall break forth before you into singing, and ail
the trees of the field shall clap their bands.”
1J. “ Instead of the thorn shall come up the fir
tree; and instead of the briar shall come up the
myrtle tree; and it shall be to the Lord for a name,
for an everlasting sign that shall not be cut off.”
xlii. 4. “ He shall not fail nor be discouraged
till he have set judgment in the earth: and the
isles shall wait for his law.”
8
8
Digitized by Google
. 9 . “ Behold the former things are come to pass,
and new things do I declare: before they spring
forth I tell-you of them,”
IQ. “ Sing unto the Lord a new song, and his
praise from the end of the earth.”
13. “ The Lord shall go forth as a mighty man,
he shall stir up iealousy like a man of afar; he shall
prevail against his enemies.”
14. “ I have a long time holden my peace, I
have been still, and refrained myself: now will Jcry
like a travailing woman; I will destroy and devour
at once.”
18. “ Hear, ye deaf; and look, ye blind, that ye
may see,”
xliii. 6. “ I will say to the north, give up; and
to the south, keep not back: bring my sons from
far, and my daughters from the ends of the earth.”
8. “ Bring forth the blind people that have
eyes, and the deaf that have ears.”
xliv. 2 1 . “ O Israel, thou shalt not be forgotten
of me.”
'22 . “ I have blotted out, as a thick cloud, thy
transgressions;and as a cloud, thy sins: return unto­
me, tor 1 have redeemed thee.”
23. “ Sing, O heavens, for the Lord hath done
i t : shout, ye lower parts of the earth: break forth
into singing, ye mountains, O forest and every tree
therein; for the Lord hath redeemed Jacob, and
glorified himself in Israel.”
24. “ I am the Lord that maketfrall things; that
stretcheth forth the heavens alone; that spreadeth
abroad the earth by myself.”
25. “ That frustrateth the tokens of theliars, and
maketh diviners mad; that turneth wise men back-
ward, and malteth their knowledge foolish.”
- xlv. 8. “ Drop down, ye heavens, from above,
and let the skies pour down righteousness: let the
eajrth open, and let them bring forth salvation, and
let righteousness spring up together: I, the Lord,
have created it.”
8
9
Digitized by Google
17. rt But Israel shall be saved in the Lord, with
an everlasting salvation; ye shall not be ashamed
nor confounded, world without end.”
22. “ Look unto me, and beye saved, all the ends
of the earth: for I am God, and there is none else.”
23. “ I have sworn by myself, the word is gone
out of my mouth in righteousness, and shall not
return; that unto me every knee shall bow, every
tongue shall swear.”
25. “ In the Lord shall all the seed of Israel be
Justified, and shall glory.”
li. 11. “ Therefore the redeemed of the Lord'
shall return, and come with singing unto Zion;
and everlasting joy shall be upon their head : they
shall obtain gladness and joy, and sorrow and
mourning shall flee away.”
22. “ Thus saith thy Lord, the Lord and thy
God, that pleadeth the cause of his people, behold,
I have taken out of thy hand the cup of trem­
bling; even the dregs of the cup of my fury thou
shalt no more drink it again.”
23. “ But I will put it into the hand of them
that afflict thee.”
lvi. 1. “ Thus saith the Lord, keep ye judg­
ment, and do justice: for my salvation is near to
come, and my righteousness to be revealed.”
8. “ The Lord God which gathereth the out­
casts of Israel saith, yet will I gather others to
him, besides those that are gathered unto him.”
10. “ His watchmen are blind ; they are all ig­
norant, they are all dumb dogs, they cannot bark;
sleeping, lying down, loving to slumber.”
11. “ Yea, they are greedy dogs, which can ne­
ver have enough ; and they are shepherds that
cannot understand: they all look to their own
way, every one for his gain, from his quarter.”
lx. 2. “ For behold, tne darkness shall cover the
earth, and gross darkness the people: but the
Lord shall arise upon thee, and his glory shall
be seen upon thee.”
90
Digitized by Google
18. “ Thou shalt call thy walls salvation, and
thy gates praise.”
20. “ The Lord shall be thine everlasting light,
and the days of thy mourning shall be ended."
21. 22. “ Thy people also shall be all righteous:
they shall inherit the land for ever; the brancty of
my planting, the work of my hands, that I may be
glorified. A little one shall become a thousand, and
a small one a strong nation: I, the Lord, will hasten
it in his time.” •
lxv. 17. “ For behold I create new heavens,
and a new earth; and the former shall not be re­
membered nor come into mind.”
18. “ For behold I create Jerusalem a rejoicing,
and her people a joy.”
22. “ And mine elect shall long enjoy the work
of their hands.”
Jxvi. 12. “ For'thus saith the Lord, behold I
will extend peace to her like a river, and the glory
of the Gentiles like a flowing stream.”
22. “ For as the new heavens, and the newearth,
which I will make, shall remain before me, saith the
Lord, so shall your seed and your name remain.”
“ Here is the Sc riptu re before you, that is to
be fulfilled, but is not told how. But in thy writings
1 have told how they shall be accomplished. There
is first some cause before there is a war; there
are first clouds before there is rain; the sun must
first be risen before it shines upon you; and a man
must first break the law before he is condemned;
there must be a beginningbefore thereis an ending.
So it must be with the coming of my Kingdom, and
the destruction of Satan’s. It is for Man’s sake that
Satan is cast; and Man must first sign the articles of
his destruction before he is cast; it is for Man’s hap­
piness that I shall bring in my peaceable Kingdom,
<wpromised. And Man must first sign the articles
of my coming, before I shall come; or how shall the
scriptures be fulfilled? How canthey say,“this is the
$
1
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
Lord, we have waited-for him,”i f theyare not warn­
ed before? How can you aay, “ the Bridegroom
cometh,go ye out to meet-him,”ifyou are notwarned
o f my coming? How can you say,“ Satan, the great
accuser ofthe brethreu, iscast downfify o u ktmo it .
not ? How can the days be shortened, i/' ihgy rjpp
until the whole six thousand years are up ? for I
said, My Spirit shall not always strive with man,
but my delight shall be with the sons of men; and
what delight could J have with men, before I hate
tried their love ? I t fjjptp Love to me, that a man as-
pireth lobe a bishop,a chancellor, an archdeacon, or
a shepherd o f theflo ck: it is their love to themselves ;
njfor they allpreachfor hire. But it is in Lqve to me,
t^that men are striving to convince the world of my
'‘Coming; for here they have no present reward;
: but when I come my reward is with me; apd they
shall find I will not tarty: but* I must gather, my
wheat into my garner, before I burn the chaff with
unquenchable fire; for now all my Bible shall befu l­
filled:’
Ail the chapters£ have mentioned the Lord hath
promised to explain their meaning to me. And now
J come to the second Psalm : ‘•Thou art my Son;
this day have I begotten thee; ask of me, and
I will give thee the heathen for thipe inheritance;
and the uttermost parts of the earth for thy 909?
cession.”
9S
Here ends the A nswer of the L ord
t©the Powers o f Darkness—
Directing Men to search the Scriptures; for
in them ye have eternal Life.
October 12, 1802.
Digitized by Google
Further COMMUNICATIONS given to me, in
Answer to M aris Controversies.
1 was ordered to open the Bible and write:
N ehem iah, vii. 36. “ The children of Jericho,
three hundred forty and five.”
Psalm, xcix. 6. “ Moses and Aaron among
his priests, and Samuel among them that call upon
his name : they called upon the Lord, and he an*
swered.”
M a t t h e w , xxvi. 55. “ In that same hour, said
Jesus to the multitude, are ye come out as against
a thief, with swords and staves for to take me ? I
sat daily with you teaching in the temple, and ye
laid no hold on me.”
T he Answer of the Sp ir it .
“ Here is the Law and the G ospel together.
What was then done concerning Jerusalem shall
■be now dorte again. The city shall be wondrously
and gloriously built; the people shall be num­
bered by the Seals, that go to possess it; as they
then were numbered by Names, so shall they now
be numbered by Seals; for there is the number of
the Tribes mentioned in the Revelation ; and so
shall the Tribes now be sealed, like that chapter.
For as Moses and Aaron were amongst the priests,,
and Samuelalso was with them; and they called upon
the Lord, and he answered them ; so shall -men
call upon me, and I will answer; I will be a L ight
to lighten the Gentiles, and the G lory of my
People Israel; those that I call my People Israel
are they that inquire after me, to know my ways,
and to seek out the truth of my words : they are
my People, and I will be their G on; and my
Glory shall rise upon them. They shall take up
the stumbling-block out of the way of my People,
and make plain my paths before all nations; for
thy W ritings must go into ajl countries. The
night is far spent; the day is at hand, that I shall
redeem my people, according to my promise, from
the fall of Adam; and the world shall be like the
garden of Eden; and man shall enjoy that perfect
happiness I created him for; or how can man
93
Digitized by Google
know what happiness I created himfor, or what Sa­
tan robbed him of?
H abakkuk, i. 12. “ Art thou not from ever­
lasting, O Lord my God, my Holy One ? We
shall not die : O Lord, thou hast ordained them
for judgment,'; and, O mighty God, thou bast es­
tablished them for correction.”
ii. 14. “ For the earth shall be filled with the
glory of the Lord, as the waters cover the sea.”
Zephaniah, ii. 11. “ The Lord will be ter­
rible unto them ; for he will famish all the gods of
the earth ; and men shall worship him, every one
from his place, even all the isles o f the heathens.”
iii. 9. “ For then I will turn to the people a
pure language, that they may all call upon the
name of the Lord, to serve him with one consent.”
Malachi, iii. 16. “ They that feared the Lord
spake often one to another ; and the Lord hear­
kened aud heard, and a book of remembrance was
written before him, for them that feared the Lord'
and thought upon his Nam e; and they shall be
mine, saith the Lord of hosts, in the day that I
will make up my jewels, and I will spare them, as
a man spareth his own son that serveth him.”
iv. 2. “ Unto you that fear my Name, shall the
Sun of Righteousness arise with healing in his
w ings; and ye shall go forth, and grow up as
calves of the stall. And ye shall tread down the
wicked ; for they shall be as ashes under thesoles
of your feet, in the day that I shall do this, saith
the Lord of hosts.”
“ Now these prophecies of my Bible were neveryet
oneof them fulfilled ; but when I bring in this glori­
ous rest for my People that seek me, and think upon
my Name; that the Son of Righteousness shall arise
with healingin his wings,to heal thefa ll o f man and
he shall be one with me, and I with him; then must
my fury be poured out upon all nations that believe
not in me. Hitherto I have given them milk ; that
meaneth I have mildly given the sincere milk of my
Word, that ye may grow thereby, as. new-born babes
94
Digitized by t ^ o o Q l e
I have spoken as a Father, a Brother, of a Friend :
but this love and condescension is despised, and not
judged as coming from a merciful Father, and a
compassionate God andRedeemer; but soon they
judged it a foolish invention from some spirit, they
knew not where or from whom. Now as my love is
despised, my condescension abused, and ndt believ­
ed ; I shall come with a voice of thunder to my ene­
mies: tor with the meek man I will deal meekly,
and with the humble man 1 have dealt humbly; but
now with the froward man I shall deal frowardly ;
and with the proud man I shall deal proudly: for I
will bring down the proud hearts of men, and level
with the dust the haughty spirits. My fireshall burn
like an oven, and the pride of men shall be burnt
upas stubble; lor if they will not hear, and will not
lay it to heart, to give glory unto my name, 1 will
send a curse upon them:.for if 1spared not the na­
tural branches, but cut them off through unbelief;
let the wild olive, that was grafted in, not be high
miuded, butfe a r; for as I cut off the Jews* from
Jerusalem, for their unbelief; so will I now cut off
from the face of the earth that mock the coming of
the Lord. Now have I shewed you the promises
made to my prophets; and now I have shewed you
by prophecies they shall be fulfilled; for as sure as 1
told thee, nineteen years ago, thy life should go in
print, and now it is done; so sure will I do:tipon the
earth all I have spoken by thee; and it shall be a
savour/of life to them that believe; but of death to
them that disbelieve: for know byfait/ilttzyesaved,
and ye perish through unbelief. The time 1.told thee
thy life must go in print was the year after the
American war was ended; and then tliou wentest
through great persecution from man, and bad false
.witnesses raisedupagainst thee. I warned thee the
second time b a r ite it again; it was one year be- /■
fore the war broke;out with France: and as sure as
the war broke out the following year, so sure shall
all break out, that I have said unto thee: fori will
95
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
now break out on the right hand, and on the t e f l­
on the right hand, to fulfil all the promises I hate
made,to believers; on the left, to destroy all the
mockers. Therefore the day of the Lord will be
terrible; and mine anger and indignation burn with
•fury ; because I coinein meekness and love to draw
men with cords of love; but they judge there is no
■condescension in their God ; then I will not conde­
scend longer to bear with their iniquities. If they
judge m e as an austere master; like an austere mas­
ter let them fear m e : for now to the merciful man
I will show m e r c y ; and to the pitifal man I will
show p i t y ; but to the cruel man I will show cru­
elty : and as men judge m e , let them fear m e . If
I am a Father, where is my honour? If a Master,
where is my fear ? They that judge m e as a Father,
let them know I have spoken as a father, to shew
my loving kindness to the works of my hands;
that I made man and promised to redeem him;
that my delight may be with him. So have I
drawn near to men, that they may draw near t6
M e ; but ye have snuffed at it, saith the Lord of
hosts; and ye have brought that which was torn—
the blind and the sickfo r an offering; shall I receive
this at yodr hands, saith the Lord of hosts ? Ye call
the proud happy; yea, they that work wickedhess
are set up, and they that tempt God are even de­
livered ! But they that think upon my name are
despised:and shall I not visit for this, saith the Lord
of hosts? The torn are those that break off from
my Bible, and make it a broken book; one part
fulfilled, and the otherpartwecer to be fulfilled;'then
it must be broke asunder; and how will ye join it
together? The blind are those, that in seeing, thqr
cannot see; nor in hearing, they cannot understand;
y*t ye Set op such men’s judgment to be right. So
the evilday will come upon you unaware: for when
I bring my blessings on the one hand, to those that
are waiting for my coming; I shall bring the curse
on the other; on all those that say, “ where is'the
96
Digitized by L j O O Q i e
pfam iseof his' coining ?
. for since the fathers fell
asleep, all things remain as theywere—’’and so they
shall remain to them: for as the deluge destroyed
the world of old, and the fire destroyed Sodom and
. Gomorrah, and the sword destroyed Jerusalem; so
shall the sword of my anger go forth and destroy
all those that look not for my coming. So now if I
am a Master, where is my fear? Have I not told you,
a.day shall come that shall burn as an oven, and
all- the proud and the wicked shall be burnt up like
stubble ? For I will make a full end of sin; my
■whirlwind shall go forth with fury, a cutting whirl­
wind, that shall fall grievously on the heads of the
-wicked, In the latter days, they shall consider it
perfectly.* So if ye will not look unto me, all ye
to th^ends of the earth and be saved, ye must all
jriffisrahrough unbelief. For I say unto man, as I
;&»id $bto Satan as you judged me, so shallyefind
$s your faith is, it shall happen unto you. If
eve I came first in the Body and made my-
•lW
^*Fre.e and familiar with man; ye must believe J
■shall come more familiar in the Spirit, when I come
^ -to bring in my Kingdom unto Men, and make you
"
’•* Joint heirs with me ; and show you my Salvation,
' -that is to be revealed; which is to save you from
■death, hell, and sin, and reveal to you the Tree of
•life. Salvation being revealed, must be revealed
‘here on earth. To all that believe, I shall show my
.salvation uuto them. And my righteousness being
, 'revealed is, that I have done just and right by men,
' devils, and.fallen angels. This is what I told thee
in 1792— “ Thou shouldest declare my won­
drous works to the children of men; and my faith­
fulness and loving kindness, thou shouldest not
keep b a c k b u t what wondrous works hadst thou
:then to declare ?or what faithfulness or lovingkind­
ness hadst thou then to keep back, when thy own
life hath been a scene of sorrow and persecution
97
r
• Jeremiah, xxix.
Digitized by Google
from a deceitful people, laden' with iniquity. All
the loving kindness thou couldest then declare,
was in being deliveredjrom them, and a strong faith
in G od, and of happiness hereafter, which is placed
in evefy true Christian.”
Now 1 was ordered to open my Bible.
P salm , cxviii. 10. “ They compassed meabout;
but in tile name of the Lord I will destroy them.”
Sa m u el, xiv. 5. “ The fore front of one was
situated northward against Michmash; and the
other southward against Gibeah.”
E xodus, iv. 9. “ Thou shalt take of the water
o f the river and pour it upon the dry land; and the
water which thou takest out of the river shall be­
come blood upon the dry land.”
“ Now I shall answer.—Strange as these chap-
ters may appear to thee; I shall now do as in the
days of old. And as I destroyed the Philistines
and Egypt, so will I now utterly destroy the Turks';
aod their land will I give into the hands of Israel,
For their land shall become a land of blood. They
are a people that Satan hath set up, and worked
in their hearts to work wickedness; and every cru­
elty is in their hands: but now the axe is laid to the
root, and every branch shallfa ll; for I will utterly '
destroy all the works of the devil. I will not leave
root or branch: but unto them that seek after me,
to know my statutes, and keep my judgments, and
abide in my law; unto them shall tne Sun of Right­
eousness arise, with healing in his wings; and 1 will
dwell in the midst of my people Israel. And as it
was by faith Abraham obtained the promise; so by
faith shall they now be saved, who trust in me for
salvation: for I will throw down, ami bpild up; I
will kill, and make alive; I will wound, and I will
heal; I will destroy, and I will save. For I, that
am the God of Abraham, of Isaac, and Jacob,
will now be the God of all the families upon the
earth: and man shall know his God; and I will
know my people. Am. I not present amongst the
children of men, and do I not see who is for he, and
98
Digitized by t ^ o o Q l e
Who is againstME? He that is not with me, is against
m e ; he that gatherethnot with me, scattereth.
Now I shall come to the purpose with all men: I
that am the God of heaven, whose eye is every
where present, beholding the evil and the good;
unto me all hearts are opened, and from me no se­
crets are hid. Do I not see, do not I consider,
do Tnot hear, do I not understand, who is desirous
for me and my Kingdom? and who is like the Lao-
diceans, neither hot nor cold, but luke-warm?
and such I shall spew them out of my mouth. For
now I shall come to my Bible: was it to run out
the six thousand years, no flesh could be saved;
■for Satan would bring in idolatry in every heart,
and condemn every man; then how could man beju s ­
tified, and Satan condemned, was I not to chain him
down before the time, to try man, what he is,
'when he hath no deoil to tempt him to evil ? Then
shall 1 try man, as I have tried the angels in hea-
'ven; and then the thousandyears I shall bejudging
the world, by the conduct o f mankind. VPhen Satan
is sealed up, then willhefeel the effects o f my anger,
as the world did when they were destroyed. But
as Noah was preserved in the ark, and suffered to
come out and fill the earth again; So shall Satan
;be let loose at the end o f the thousandyears, and go
over .the earth again: then if he reforms, he may
find some Mercy ; but if not he shall find no pity,
if he tempts Man to sin again. This shall I do,
that 1 may be clear in judging, and just in con­
demning: but how could I be clear, to judge after
the manner of men, to let Satan run out the full
time first, and then to give him no space o f repent­
ance, as I have given to man the space of repeut-
•ance? It must be a tried repentance, and a proved
repentance: and thus will he be tried and proved,
when he has suffered the confinement for his sins;
as a man suffers for his drimes in a jail; but .if he
is freed, and breaks the law again, he must be
hanged: and so if Satan tempts man again, he shall
be cut off from the society of men for ever. Here is
G 2
99
Digitized by Google
my just dealings with men and devils; and he th?f
denieth the justice of my sentence, let him bean
atheist of a barren mind, .that is accursed when his
Lord cometh. For such a.man mustjudge without
judgment; and he must condemn without justice:
and just so have men judged thee; and just .the same
they judge me. So there is nojudgment in their go­
ings ; but I am God, and not man; and my thoughts
are not like man’s thoughts; nor my ways like man’s
ways: for as high as the heavens are from the earth,
so far are my ways from man’sways, and my thoughts
from man’s thoughts. What must become of the
world, was I to judge men as they judge thee, with­
out searching out the truth? Every man must be lost.
So let none judge, that they may not be judged; let
them not condemn, that they maynot be condemned.
If thou, by the spirit ofSatan,hated every appearance
of evil, by what spirit do men drink iniquity, as the
ox drinketh water, and sin with a high hand ? O, ye
simple and unwise, if ye cannot judge your Bibles,
how can ye judge the w o m a n ? If ye make me
and my prophets false, is it to be marvelled at, that
ye condemned the Woman also ?
• Know ye not, when
the Sun of Righteousness arises with healing in his
zvings, that ye shall tread down the wicked as ashes
under your feet ? but how can the Sun of Righteous­
ness arise with healing in his wings, if I do not heal
them from their sins, and bring them to that state of
innocence and happiness they were first created for?
And how can you tread down the wicked, as ashes
under your feet, if the author o f zoickedness is not
destroyed and trodden dozen ? No, I have said, ye lay
in the wicked one, which is the devil, and when he
is destroyed his r
corks willfollow; then will ye tread
down the wicked one as ashes under your feet: but
how will ye tread down the wicked while the root re­
mains? The weeds will spring up; and if ye tread
them down, they will rise again; they cannot be as
ashes until the root is burnt up.—And now I will
begin like a H usbandman, and go on like a than
of war.
100
Digitized by Google
Like a H usbandman I’ll now appear;
I'll plough my Ground, and make my Fallows bare;
Ana then to stroiaul* it I will sure begin:
I'll burn the weeds from whence come every sin,
And then the ashes you may cast abroad.
The best of Husbandmen, you’ll find is your God :
To cleanse my Ground I’ll break up Root and Moule ;•
With a strong Plough I'll now let deep my Sull,f
Till every Root of Evil I've broke up,
And made my Ground fit for the Wheat to drop;
Because the Stroiaul I’ll surely bum to Dust;
And here’s the Ashes 1 for Man have plac’d $
Under your Feet, I say, they all shall come,
And then, my Brethren, you may tread them down,
Just like the ashes that are cast abroad;
For by the Husbandman it must be know'd.
When all the Stroiaul is burned to the Dust,
The Ashes then abroad by man are cast;
And they that walk thereon may tread them down*
No>v like the Husbandman 1 shall be found;
For like these weeds is SATAN in the Earth;
Deep are his roots, and so the seeds come forth,
That he is always sowing in the Ground; ,
For in the Hearts of Men his Seeds are found.
But now the Root of Evil I’ll destroy.
And then the Wheat may their clean land enjoy,
To grow‘together, and increase their crop,
When every weed that choaks is burned up*
So like a Husbandman I’ll now go deep,
'Jill every Root of Evil I do break; > %
j
And all the Roots of Evil now I’ll bqrn,
And then I’ll bring a glorious Crop for Man.
So like the Husbandman I've ended here,
And show’d you plain the way I shall appear,
To burn the wicked weeds that so do spring,
By burning every Root, I say, of Sin.
And now a Man of War I’ll surely be,
And leave no Foe without a Victory;
My heavenly Armies I shall now prepare,
To meet the Root of Evil in the air,
And make the heavenly pillars for to shake, v
• And earth’s foundation tremble and to quake.
Where as you see your Stroiaul for to burn,
Just so my fire you vfi\\ see to come;
And as your cannons they do loudly roar,
Just so my thunder will be in tbe air,
When I the Warrior do begin for Men,
Who sign their Names to have my Kingdom come.
* These words are Terns in Agriculture, used in the country near Exeter,
andareexplained atthe end of the work.
101
Digitized,by jLiOOgle _
But first, the Love of Men I’ll surely try,
And then my arrows shall like fury fly.
If Men should hasten, as a few begin,
The Victory of the Loro would soon be seen;
Because they’ll find me standing in the air,
With the drawn Swords, that did to thee appear ;*
And fast my angels they will follow on,
Till Satan headlong to his Fit shall come,
With all his legions, and his hellish host,
That oftheir power do so proudly boast;
And then their power they may set up in hell,
With all his host, and let his power swell:
For he shall find that I shall gain the war-—
*
The Woman conquer’d ; let the fool take care;
Because my honour she did so maintain.
And now III prove my honour to her friends;
And all shall find her words of me weretrue;
And as shejudg’d mb, I for her did do;
And as you judge me now I’ll do for all,
And prove to Man, from Heaven hath been her call*
But as she’s simple, simply now I speak;
But Man will tremble, when my fury breaks,
And like a Man of War for to appear,
And every foe before me now I’ll clear.
So now you see, your Bible’s hastening on:
As by the Woman Mysteries^tere are shown; ^
So by the Woman Mysteries did begin,
When first their Nakedness to them was seen ;
So by the Woman’s hand it shall appear,
To show you Cloathing every soul shall wear.
As from the trees, the leaves in Autumn fall,
So in the Spring, I now do tell you all,
That the same trees do all bud out again,
And so the green leaves you may then see plain
To bud, to blossom, and the fruit appear,
And bring the leave* to man another year:
Just so’s die W oman, like the Trees become;
And know, the Fruit came from the Woman’s hand;
And so the Fruit doth from her all appear—
13sk what man a child did ever bear.
More than the elm, pr the lofty trees?
The Fruit’s in Woman, judge this as you please,
Who brought to Man the g o o d f r u i t at the first,!
And from the Woman shall the good fruit burst ?
Though at'that time the good fruit it did fall,
But now you’ll find ’tis budding put for all,
To bring the perfect Fruit to Man again;
And here’s the Fruit that ever shall remain,
See Strange Effects of Faith, page 99. t This alludes to the Birth of Christ.
102
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
IQ
S
To bud, to blossom, and bring every year.
With my Creation I shall all compare;
So now, I tell you to mark every sign ; v
The fallen leaves are budding to mankind,
That will the perfect fruit unto you bring.
And from the Woman must the good frvxt spring;
Because no Fruit did ever come from Man,
Though it is often grafted by his hand:
But ’tis the trees that must the fruit now bear,
That man hath pruned, and grafted with all care ;
So I have pruned, and grafted the Fruit for Man,
And here’s the Tree from whence your Knowledge comes;
T w elve manner of Fruit you’ll find this Tree to bear;
So now, all Nations, you may hope and fear;
For he that plucks this Fruit through unbelief,
I tell him in the end he’ll find his grief;
And he that saith, “ the Fruit, let it remain
“ Until *tis ripe, and then we shall See plain
“ What fruit is on it, whether good or bad:
“ And then the knowledge from it may be had—”
To suck I tell you, you do go too far ;
For when the ripen’d Fruit do all appear,
The withered Fruit willfall before the time;
And so the knowledge you too late will find;
Because no judgment you will draw before,
That all the Fruit was ripe, and then see clear;
But then your Wisdom it will be too late;
The Fruit’s preserv’d, and the door is shut!
And then too late your judgment you will show,
When those who judg’d it first, you all will know,
Will take possession of the Tree of Life:
It is the H eirs to it must end the strife;
But know, an Heir to it no Man can be,
But such as from the Leaves begin to see”
Here I shall insert part of a letter, I sent to the
Rev. Mr. Foley; it being the answer of the Lord to
me concerning him, when I heard he had launched
into the great deep, by making known to the people,
where he resides, these communications; for when
believers arejoined with unbelievers, the latter think
the former mad. I was thus auswered:
“ Fear not thou worm, Jacob, nor be dismayed,
ye men of Israel; for 1 am your G oo, and will be
with you, and protect you; and I will shame all that
shsune you, and confound all that ednfound you.
Digitized by Google
For as you have begun, the shepherds of the flock
rnuftfollow, or be no shepherds: for the Lordwill
send faithful labourers into his vineyard, as the har­
vest of the Lord is nigh at hand. However confident
men may be, that there is no cause for them tojudge
for themselves, or sign their names; they tfill find
there is no man that will have part in the Tree of
Life, whose name isnot foundwritten,and the seal
given him: for these are the leaves for the healing
of the nations. The pure river that proceeded out
of the throne of God, and the L amb, is the pure
word of G od.” The T ree in the midst of it you
will see explained in the following verses; and what
is meant by tbe leaves of the tree for the healing of
the nations. You know it is written, the servants
of the Lord shall be sealed, before they hurt the
earth or the sea: so they will find it a blessing that
the Lord has established you amongst them, i?they
obey the call: but whether they will hear, or whe­
ther they will forbear, speak my words unto them,
' saith the Lord, by his prophet; and so you have
faithfully done, that you may be clear from.the blood
of all men.
"Tfre healing of the N ations now is come,
And from the T ree a L eaf PlI g iv e‘
to M an, '
That he may prove to it he is an Heir,
When all the Fruit do unto him appear. ‘
So by their Leaves the Heirs I aH shall see,
By every Leaf that’s given from the Treii
And every Leaf that’s given I do mean,
It is the Seals that must the H eirship gain ;>
Becatise another cannot stand an Heir;
These are the Leaves for healing do appear,
To heal the Nations as they all do come.
Thou’lt find the Seal must go through every Land;
For when thou dost die, the Seal it must be given
Unto thy Friend, where I the lump shall leaven ;
But that, I say, I’ll tell thee at the time,
But here’s the heaves, the; Nations all will find, .
'rhat sore must heal them of their every Fall,
And ign their Names to have my kingdom all.
And so the Fruit \yill every Month appear ; •
I tell you all you’ll stee another year;
10*
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
For fast I say it aft is hastening on— *
The healing of ihe Nations is begun.
Although the Fruit it does notycf appear,
The Balm is laid before the Wound is cur'd:
But in the end the Wound it shall be heal'd;
And from these Leaves die Nations shall not fail
To gain my Kingdom, and to bring it near,
And Satan’s Kingdom it shall disappear:
And then the Chapter it will hasten on—•
They'll find the Sp ir it and the Bride are come;
They'll findthe Root of David to appear,
And then the Morning Star, you may see clear,
Is with the Evening Star arose to shine;
The night's* approaching, and the day decline,
For Satan's Kingdom for to govern here;
'Tis Man hath all to hope; but fools shall fear,
Whojudge these things came from a Woman’s hand.
Without the Lord, and in such order stand.
Then tell me why such thoughts ne'er came before, '
T o prove my Bible, and to make it clear, *
That every word that’s written there is true ?
'Tis more than any learned man can do,
To make my Bible dear as thou hast done;
I ask, what Rock this Nation's built upon,
If thatmy Bible they do all deny ?—
And now I’ll come to the weak Faith of thee."
_ Here is the answer to Women, as some were de
sirous to know if any may be admitted at the prov­
ing ;of the sealed writings.
“ Now I answer thee of women: They followed
me to my Cross, and stood weepingto see me cruci­
fied ; they were the first at my Sepulchre to see my
Resurreclion;now I willnpt refuse women thatassist
thee. Let it be known unto all men,the work at first
was Carried on by women ; the first presents that
were made werefrom thewomen;so theyshowed their
loveand faith,before manshowed any. So now sutler
women to be present, and forbid them not. It was
by a Woman I came into the world in the form of a
Man;and now by a Woman I will reveal myselfunto
men, in and through the woman, as much in the
Spir it as I did then in the Flesh make my appear­
ance to-the world from the woman; and now from
the woman shall my second coming be revealed,
• 105
Digitized by f o o z l e
that no man may boast, nor be worshipped in my
stead;for there itis false Christs will arise inroan,*
but no Saviour can arise in a woman, for her to be a
Christ. For here I am, all in all acknowledged by
thee, come to heal the fall of the woman, which must
first be healed,before man's redemption can come; for
how can man that is born o fa woman bejreefrom his
fa ll, or from his original guilt, before the original '
guilt be taken away? However deep men apply their
£ibles, the fountain must first be cleared before
the vessel canbringforth clearand living water; can .
a corrupt fountain bring forth a pure stream? If the
fountain be tainted,the water will be tainted also; if
the vessel be tainted,the liquor is tainted. Therefore
as long as the taint oftheja il remains in the woman,
all her offspring must be tainted the same; but first
make the vessel good, then the liquor will be good
also: therefore I said, the new wine must have neat'
bottles; for the old bottles would burst with the new
wine: now I tell thee, every old bottle will burst,
that looks for redemption in Christ, before the fa ll
o fthe woman is freed; for here is the meaningoFthe
bottles being new when the wine is new also: and
now if you put a new piece on an old garment, the
rent will be made worse; so the garment must be '
made new throughout. So he that will not believe
the Sun of Righteousness will arise with healing in
his wings,/o heal thefa ll o fthe woman, will never be
healed in this world; for it is by faith ye are saved* -
and that not of yourselves; for it is the Lord mast
heal the fall, but ye must have faith to believe it. -
So if ye will not have faith to sign your names, to
wish for my coming, and Satan to be destroyed, yt ..
shall never live to enjoy it. I will, for thw, be in­
quired of by the house of Israel; ant^^bery matt
must set to his seal that God is true. Hesaid Me wo­
man should be the helpmate fo r man; “ and now as a
helpmate we receive her.” He said it was not good
fo r man to bealone; “ and now we prove the truthof
106
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
his words:”and this shall be acknowledged by allmen
who live to see mykingdom established in peace. And
now let Satan swell with all his rage in man; my Spi­
rit shall lift up a standard against him, for all that
believe in me and my Gospel; for I died to triumph
over death, hel), and the grave. But how could I
then triumph over death, nell, and the grave, when
death and hell followed close on me ana my follow­
ers PAnd so they are now pursuing the same: but one
man shall now chase a thousand in my Name, and*
two shall put ten thousand to flight, till they are left
as a beacon upon the mountains; for in the strength
of the Lord will I destroy them; but how could one
man chase a thousand, or two put ten thousand to
flight, if believers were many, arid mockers but few?
How could my gospel be true?At my second coming
I said 1 shouldscarcefindfaith upon tht Earth;for as
the unbelief of tht world of old, and theunbeliefof
Sodom and Gomorrah, so I said shall tjhjtitaamingof
the Son of Man be. But fear not, mytmH|tyCkj for
it is my Father’s good pleasure to^ Iw ^ ^ m y king-
dom, when I establish it in righteousness ahd peace!
for I will take away the foxes that hurt roy'vines,
and the singing ofbirdsshall come for all that believe;
.fcr the voice of the turtle is now in your land ^there­
fore,tremble ye mountains,that build your foundation
pn the sand ofyour own wisdom; be afraid,yptreethat
have no root in me; for the north winds will blowyou
down; the south winds will root you up: for 1 will
come into my garden, and eat my pleasant fruit with
thpse who wait for my coming; therefore now be
ashamed,ye husbandmen;and blush,ye vine-dressers;
who dress not you* ground with the true dressing'of
my word; and blush for your vineyards, that do not
prune them according to my covenant made with
man. But now, ye trees ofLebanon,whose roots are
fixed in mb, believing and relying on all the promises
4 made to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, that I should
fulfil them according tp my word, which was made
1
0
7
Digitized by Google
through faith, and must be obtained by faith; unto
you was-the promise to be fulfilled; so ye may break
forth into singing; for as the birds build their nests
on high; so ye, by faith, build your nests on h igh ;
and ye may break forth into singing thereon. And
you, O mountains, who build on the R ock of Ages,
whojudgehirn faithful that hath promised,and who
also will do it; a remedy was instantly promised, and
help was laid upon one that was MiGHTV,that the
seed ofthe woman should bruisethe Serpent’shead;
unto you shall the Sun of Righteousness arise with
healing in his wings; and ye shall see the curse o f
the Serpent above every living creature; and tread
him down as ashes under the soles ofyour feet. For
as the hills stand round about Jerusalem, so will I
stand rouud my people forevermore; and as firm as
Mount Zion,that cannot be moved, so firm shall my
covenant stand, that I have maddwith man; for my
delightshall be with man, the workofmy ownhands;
and my throne shall be established in righteousness
and peace: and so in peace possess your souls; for he
that troubleth Israel shall be cut off.
And now I shall come to thee: thou sayest, thou
hadst rather live in sorrow, than die and leave thy
friends in sorrow, if thou wast sure of heavenly hap-.
piness at thy death. Now if this be thy love for men
who have got themselves persecuted for thy sake,
believing thy writings to beof God;how much grea­
ter dost thou think is my loving kindness unto them
than thine! Is thy life to be compared with my love;
or thy feelings with my feelings? I tell thee, No: I
will not rest until I have filled my friends with joy
unspeakable and full of glory; and rewarded every
man according to his works! for their labour of love
shall not be in vain in the Lord. For I tell thee, thy
love springs form m e ; thy gratitude from m s ; thy
pity from m e ; and the form of thy nature was for­
med by m e ; and every passion in thy heart springs
from m e . Thou mayest wellsay thou wouldest sooner
1
0
8
Digitized by Google
judge there was noGod,than judge there wasafaith-
less God: and this judgment I will recommend to
all men ; it is better to judge your Bibles false, and
•never made by the Spirit of God, than to judge they
are of God, fulloflies, as the world nowjudge them;
for if men compare thy Writings and my Bible
together, they will find there is no shadow nor vari-
ablenessofturning in them.Theprophets prophesied
of all I have told thee: and that I shall shew thee
plainly from every chapter I have mentioned; but
now thou art come to tell them how it shall be ful­
filled, and who are the heirs to the promise. For per­
fectly as the Woman’s hand brought the knowledge
of the evil fruit, so perfectly now is the enmity be­
tween the Serpent and the Woman; and now thou
wilt bring them to the knowledge of the good : how
all is applied, and how all shall be possessed; and as
the evil fruit then destroyed the good, so now the
good shall destroy the evil. For Eve brought forth
her children by a.natural birth; and thou art bring­
ing them forth by a spiritual birth ; she plucked the
evil, and the evil remained, and the good was taken
from the evil to come; but thou bringest the good
fruit,and the evil shallbe takenfrom the goodto come;
for they must be of one mind and heart who live to,
possess my Kingdom; or how shall I establish it in
peace? Neither will I shew my loving kindness to
men before they have shewn their love to me. What
pleasure couldest thou have to visita people who do
not look forthee,nor wish for thy coming, more than
thou hadst ingoing to Bristol? Just the same would
my coming be received, by a people that did not
know me, nor look for m e : and I should be as de-
jsirous of leaving them as thou wast to leave Bristol,
and returned to thy friends at Exeter. Therefore, I
shall not come before men have made known my •
com ing; then they that look for me will be like thy ■
friends; after thy writings are proved; evfery one
will be eager to see thee; and thou wilt receive a
different welcome when thou guest hence, than ever
tbou |iast received here.”
1
0
9
Digitized by Google
lam now to insert a dream given me on the 10th
of Octobef. I dreamt I was in my bed, which was
close to a stable, and a toad came from the stable
on to tny pillow under my head, which I thought
1 took and threw out against the stable, and told
some persons who were present, that it was behind
the wall, and would get into the stable amongst the
dust; for which reason they threw out all the dirt,
and washed the stable clean, when it appeared with
red bricks. Here I awoke, and then weut to sleep
again,and dreamt I was in my own room,and I saw it
full of ill-looking men, and was much afraid; I then
thought I heared the cracking of a friend's shoes in
the'adjoining room, when I was filled withjoy, and
awoke. I then went to sleep again, and areamt I*
had a large jar that had been full of ink; but the ink
was out; and I saw a large candle burning in thejar,
and then I awoke. My dreams were answered in
he following manner:
“ The toad that came close to thee, and that
thou threwest away, is the Devil, who laid close
to thy ears in all thou hast written of him; and
thou hast thrown him away like thy dream. The
ill-looking men were evil spirits, that surround-
, ed thy bed at that time; the cracking of the shoes is
my Spirit, that guards thee and keeps thee from all
danger, and will awake thee out ofall thy fears; the
stable being washed and cleaned, and the red bricks,
appearing, represent my birth and death: that I shall
now cleanse the whole; for my blood shall cleanse
from all sin; but all sin is uot yet cleansed. Thejar
that was filled with ink, was for thee to write and me
to indite, but is now empty; thecandle placed in its
room, shews that thy time is nearly run out; and the
candle of the Lord shall fill the place, and prove that
I the Lord, who formed the heavens, and laid the
foundation ofthe earth, have spoken by thee, to thee,
and through thee. And my candle shall burn bright
amongmankind; fornow shall the stablebe cleansed
and washed; that is, all the dirt shall be done aw ay:
for I will sprinkle many ntaions; I will wash and
* 110
Digitized by Google
make them clean. But first I will come to the pur­
pose with thee, and then I will end with the whole.
How couldest thou be travailing in birth, and in
pain to be delivered, if I had not placed thy writings
in such a manner, to confuse thy mind, before the
twelve Stars were gathered together, to sit on thy
bead, to prove the truth of thy words ?It is only thy
jealousy makes thy burden ;it is thy jealousy makes
thee wish for the time that thy Writings should be
proved and the T ruth made manifest; it is the signs
I have set before thee, make thee so longing for
the time; but how could the dragon draw the third
part of the stars to the earth, if all thou hart writ­
ten to, had believed, and stood steadfast in faith ?
N o : thou wilt find four out of the twelve, that had
the three seals, cast to the earth already. This I
will makeplain before thee-When they werecoming
to prove tny writings, Satan stood before the spi­
ritual man-child to destroy him, as soon as he was
born by fa ith to believe in thee; aud now thou hast
travailed in birth one year, to bring forth the spiri­
tual man-child, that Shall rule the nations with a
rod of iron. Iron is strong, and strong shallbe his
words ; iron is for the horses feet, and the horses
shall run swift, and my word shall run swift Sa­
tan hath pursued thee and cast out floods after thee,
to the very place that Iprepared for thee; the floods
are cast out by men on the one hand, and the earth
helps thee on the other: and so shall they swallow
up every flood that is cast out against thee; for now
1 willbe awalloffireround aboutthee;that is, myan­
ger shall be kipdled against all that are against thee:
Forif thou goest to the true meaning o fthe word, the
spi ritual mam thou art bringing forth to the world
isthesecondcomingof Ch r ist: fori said Bruce wasa
type ofm e ;andit is m E and my kingdom thouart pro­
claiming „to the world, the acceptable day of the
Lord: and thou liastsinged thy paper: sowill I singe
thesons ofmen. So fearnotJacob, nor bedismayedO
111
Digitized by Google
Israel forJews and Gentiles^Greeksand Arabums,are
all one in me, that believe in me and my Gospel, in
G od and the Prophets; they are the true Israel of
God. It was by faith Abraham obtained the pro­
mise ; and it is by faith ye are saved; for now have I
called with an effectual calling; and now will I save
you with an everlasting salvation the works of my
hand. Man was the work of my hand; and by the
work of my hand, I formed the Woman; and now I
will save them in the day of my power; and the work
of myhands shall prosper in my hands: and man shall
praise my name from the rising ofjthe sun until the
going down of the same; and he shall know what
happiness I created him for here on earth : for the
new Heavens and the new Earth is a heaven here
below, that they never yet possessed ; the new Earth
is making all things new ; and I will so improve the
Earth, that it shall be as the Garden of Eden to Man
for evety barren mountain shall become a fruitful
field: and I will throw down and build up, until
every house is made pleasant for man: gardens and'
vineyards shall join to their houses: I will throw
down yourtowns and build them anew, with gardens
and fruitful vines to every man’s dwelling. Such
shallJerusalem and all the bordersbe new built. The
out-houses,of this place, that is not within the city,
are most like the dwellings I shall make for man,
The houses thou admirest are in my heart fixed on
'for mafn to dwell in. As to man I shall make him
anew; that is, his heart shall be enlarged, his wisdom
increased,and his understanding enlightened: a new
heart will I give him ; and a new spirit will I put
within him ; and I will write my laws upon his
heart, and put my spirit upon his inner parts; and
he shall walk in the delight of his God, and in the
love of his neighbour : righteousness and truth shall
meet together ; love and peace shall kiss each
other; for I will cleanse the blood that I have not
cleansed; and I will bind upthe broken hearted,and
112
Digitized by Google
k
jet the captive prisoners free; and all the earth shall
praise my name, and walk in the law of the Lord.
I the Lord have promised it, and now I will do it.
But when was this ever done? or when was it pro­
mised to be done ? Not until she that travailed had
brought forth her children: then shall her children
be taught of the Lord; and great shall be the peace
of her children. Every promise made to the pro­
phets, I ordered thee to be put in print, shall now
befulfilled; but no man can prove that any one of
them was ever yet fulfilled; for they extend to the
ends of the earth; and a perfectly happy state for all
men; which happiness no man living ever yet ex­
perienced in this world. No sooner was man form­
ed for happiness, but Satan robbed him of it, by the
woman's hand; and now, by theiooman's hand, I will
turn back the blow; for Satan’s reign hath been too
long; his happiness is increased, to think he shall
draw all men to perdition with him. Now I will
blast his happiness, as he did the happiness of man;
for nothing is so great a happiness to Satan, as to
find he can draw away the hearts of men from m e .
And now those that judge Satan would not speak
such blasphemy, must judge man is worse than the
devil; for what blasphemy is spoken by man, and
what blasphemy hath been printed by man! But I,
who am the maker of all men, and the judge of all
men, knew it all catne from the influence of the
devil; so grieve not at the judgments of men, who
judge more favourably of Satan, than they judge
one of the other: I, that know all things, know
that he has spoken as thou hast written; and I or­
dered it togo in print, with my answ'er to it, to prove
the truth of the Revelations—The w'oman hath trod
down Satan under her feet, by strength of argu­
ments ; but those who screen the devil, to condemn
themselves, let them go with him, and then they
will know him better. So do not grieve at the
judgment of men; all this must be, to fulfil the
H
113
- - i
Digitized by Google
scriptures. The Lord hath concluded all men in
unbelief, that all men may be saved. Now here you
may ask if unbelief will save a man, when it is writ­
ten, “ ye perish through unbelief?” I answer, thou­
sands and tens of thousands will perish through un­
belief; but the meaning of all men being saved
through unbelief, is,—the Lord tried the Jews, and
they stumbled at their prophets; for the very scrip­
tures I ordered thee now to put in print, that shall
now be fulfilled, they expected would be at myfirst
coming. Now I am come to try the Gentiles, and
they stumble the same; and I find them as bad as
the Jews, and as full of unbelief: so now I will not
triflewith manany longer: he that standsout through
unbelief shall be cut off; and he that believeth shall
be saved: for noto shall believers be called the chil­
dren of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob ; for now in
Isaac shall all the families of the earth be blessed,
that abide in faith, and believe that I will fulfil all
the promises I have made to man; but the fearful
and unbelievers shall be cut off from the face of the
earth. So now I tell thee, thyhour draws near; thy
trial must come on; every seal thou gavest into their
hands must be broken, the first month in the twelfth
year; and every cause fairly tried; then will I spare
the nation one year from destruction. So now it is
in vain for thee to fly, and it is in vain for any to fly
from danger, unless they fly unto me by faith ; then
they may inherit the promise, and possess the pro­
mised land: for every land is now promised to be
made happy, yea even to the ends of the earth: so
now look unto me, and be ye savfed, all ye to the
ends of the earth. So let not thy heart be faint
within thee; I am thy God and will be with thee;
I am thy Saviour and will redeem thee from all
the power of men and devils. Thy calling is sure;
thy deliverance draws nigh; but Lknow thy pains
will increase, like a travailing woman when her
hour draws near.”
114
Digitized by Google
To the Rev. T. P. Fo ley .
R ev. Sib, October 24, 1802.
I received the letter, you sent me, that you re­
ceived from the Minister, and was astonished at
hearing him say that the Sealing in the Revelation
meant to be in the Baptism.
Ishall giveyou the AneweroftheSpiritto his lettert
— He that is not for me is against me, and he that
jm$hereth not with Me seattereth; for what is bound
mr&arth is bound in heaven; and what is sealed on
earth is sealed in heaven; but how can baptism seal
Vour redemption ? Are ye not all baptised1
? The pro-
ffiMprs and the prophane, the thiefand the murderer, ^
jfffe whoremongers and the adulterers, and the hard- ’
ened sinners that think not on God, nor of his ways;
are they hot all baptised? But who amongst them
fight manfully under my banners, against the world,
the flesh, and the devil? Then how fulfil your bap-
f»mal vow, if ye will now become my followers;
set to your seals, that you do wish to renounce the
devil and all his yorks, and fight for your Lord's
mihGDOM; or ye are like the man’s guests, that
iffMh’th^ were invited began to make excuses, and -
he said that not one of those that were bidden should
taste of his supper: and now I say unto all men, he
that refuses tb sign fo r my coming, shall never see
myjfingdom o f Peace here on earth; for every name
.must be enrolled in heaven, and sealed oh earth,
that at my coming, I may say, well done, my.good
and faithful servants, entfer intothejoy ofyour Lo u6. 4
For here is your calling; here is yopr election; and
now strive make it sure. Now' I will come to
another.Injection, to the seals: what use was the
blood pS olls or of goats to be offered up for a sin
offering?’Co«fS ilteir blood, that had committed no
sm^mafte afi'ntonMttttfo r the crimes of man f The
oxknoweth hft cwnor, and the ass his master’s crib;
but Israel do not Jbww; my people do not consider.
The beast was offered up as an offering for sin ;
then how much greater offering do you offer up
H 8 *
. Digitized by Google
1
1
5
now to me, to join your hands with your hearts, to
wish the beast to he slain that was the author o f
sin; and me and my Kingdom to come, and my
will to be done on earth, as it is in heaven! Let not
him that doth not xt'ish it, sign his name for it; your
hands and hearts must join together: for I tell you
all, this is a much more acceptable offering unto
me, than the offering up of bulls and goats: for
they only stood as types of the beast, that should
be slain in the end; for Satan is the beast that
must be offered up fo r sin, as being the author o f
sin: but the beasts of the field know nothing of
sin; they were sent in their kind, and act in their
kind. Now I come to another objection: What
use was there for the lambs to be slain, and their
blood to be sprinkled on the posts of the doors, to
prevent the destroying angel to go in? Should the
blood o f a beast preserve the life of man ? Then how
much more, judge ye, the laying your hands on the
beast, by signingJor his destruction, will be an ac­
ceptable offering to the Lord? that when the de­
stroying angel goes through the land, wherever
the seals are found, there is the beast found to be
slain, and there the man must live, and the beast
must die-, but where the beast is not found to be
slain by man, man must perish; because hepreserved
the beast, as Saul did, and the kingdom was rent
from him. Now what sin, suppose ye, could it be
to preserve sheep and oxen, that had not offended ?
The sin was in breaking the command of the Lord;
for the beast then stood a type of the last day. He
that would spare the beast, which is the devil, shall
have tiie kingdom rent from him; that is, he never
shall live to see niy Kingdom here on earth. Now
I ask, of what use was a piece of brass, in the form
of a serpent, that looking to it should cure the
sting of a serpent? This only stood as a type o f viz,
whom they judged as a serpent, that in the end
should redeem them from death, hell, and sin ! And
what use was my spitting on the ground, to make
*<
116
Digitized by Google
a salve to cure the blind r only to shew you I work
by instruments; and now by instruments I shall
Work; and as the band-writing appeared against
Belshazzar, so shall the hand-writing of men appear
against the devil; and by their hand-writing he
, shall fall; for if I find but fifty righteous men to
sign their names, I will destroy Satan for the fifty’s
sake, and all the others shall be cut off; fo r no man
shall save his life, that will not sign his name for
Satan's death. For If they said of me, “ Crucify
bim! crucify him! and I was crucified by man;
80 now let them say the same of Satan, £nd he shall
be crucified also; that meaneth, his power shall be
cut off from the face of the earth. Now I shall
cdme to thee: he saith, thou art notfound ih Holy
Writ; then let him explain the 2d chapter of Joel
— 12tli Chapter of Revelation, the lpth, and the
last—54th chapter of Isaiah: and what my Apostle
meant, when he. said, “ when the fulness of time
was come, God sent forth his.Son, made of wo­
man, made under the law, to, redeem those'Jhat
were under the law.” What fulness will he prove
there was when I„came in the body, in the form
of a man, and sin and iniquity has abounded ever
'since? The Jews were the only people under the
law of the Lord; for I said you only have I known,
of all the families on the earth; and they are still
under the law, and not redeemed; but how shall I
calbfbem from all nations, where I have scattered
them, if the Spirit o f Prophecy is not given to call
them by r HoW can I reason with man, or plead
with man, without giving the Spirit of Prophecy
to plead by ? How can I cry out jike a travailing
woman, if a ttavailing woman never cry out in my
name ? ^||U I jcry out like a woman with child,
when sh£|k pea/*to bo delivered ? in that language
shall I dry out t b. jfcas nations ? O simple and un­
wise ! read your Rimes* and weigh them deep; then
ye-will know myjnigrud coming must be in tbe
Spirit when few believe i t ; for it is written,‘‘They
117
Digitized-by t ^ o o Q l e
/
6hall crucify the Lord afresh, and pat him kgain to
open shame,” and this they are doing daily. Let
it be known unto all men, I am come already in
the Spirit, and I have scarce found faith on the
earth :.for in a day they little thought of 1 visited
thee; and in a day little thought of I will come in
majesty and great glory; but as I first went through
h t office, and then expired on the cross, so wifi
I now go through my office in the Spirit, and
bring the cross on Satan, and on every man that
preserves the beast; for that is rebellion, Idte the
sin of witchcraft; for Satan must bewitch men’
s
minds, or they would all be glad to sign it;- Qua
the Lord be offended to hear you sing the song of
Moses hnd the Lamb? that as Moses destjtyyed
the temporal Pharaoh, so Christ will destroy
Pharaoh which is the deoil” Here 1 shall break off
Communications, Tuesday, 12th October, 1802.'
Joanna was ordered to open her Bible,* and write
the fimt verse she opened toj which was >
~
j ■
VMo Lh , lxix. 6. “ Let not them that seek thee
be confounded, for my sake, O God of Israel.”.,
. 7. “ Because for thy sake I have borne reproach:
shame ham covered my face.”
8. “ I am become a stranger unto my brethren,
and an alien from roy mother’s children.”
“ Now I shall answer thee. This is thy prayer
for thy friends, and this is thy petition for them,
that they mayhot beashatned tor thy sake. I know
the reproachthou hast borne for me,and what thou
hast suffered for m£ sake; I know thou art become
a stranger to thy brethren, and alienated from thy
mother’s children; but thy throne will I now esta­
blish ; thy goidgs forth snail be as the morning;
and thy truth be as clear as the noon-day
Now open thy Bible again and I will answer.”
Ezekiel, xiv. lfi. But the Land shall be deso­
late.” •
P salm, cxl. 2. “ Theirjhearts continually are
gathering together for war.”
11$
Digitized by Google
“ Now I will answer thee. The Land shall be de­
solate, where I told thee of desolation; for they are
preparing daily for war, and all the threatenings
pronounced in that chapter shall now come upon,
thetn.* If Noah, Daniel, and Job, be in it, tliey
shall save none but their own lives; for I will ut­
terly destroy them, and make a full end of them;
and I will give their land to them that seek me,
and think upon my covenant, that I made to
Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob: for now I will be
known of all the families upon the earth.”
I saiah, ii. 2. “ And it shall come to pass in the
last days, that the mountain of the Lord’s house
shall be established in the top of the mountains,
and shall be exalted above the hills, and all nations
shallJlow unto i t ”
vi. 3c “ And one cried unto another and said,
Holy! Holy! Holy! is the Lord of hosts; for the
whole earth is full of his Glory.”
ix. 6. “ For unto us a C h il d is born ; unto us a
Son is given; and the government shall be upon
his shoulder: and his name shall be called Wonder­
ful, Counsellor; the mighty God, the everlasting
Father, the Prince of Peace; of the increase of his
government and peace there shall be no end; upon
the throne of David, and upon his kingdom to
order it, and to establish it with judgment and
with justice from henceforth, even for ever: the'
zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform this.”
xi. 9. “ They shall not hurt nor destroy in all
my holy mountain: for the earth shall be full of
the knowledge of the Lord as the waters cover the
sea; and it shall come to pass in that day, that the
Lord shall set his hand a second time to recover
the remnant of his people.”
xii. '5. “ Sing unto the Lord, for he hath done
excellent things; this is known in all the Earth.” ^
“ Now I shall begin to answer thee. These thingfe
I spoke by my prophet; and now I will do it; but
" * The Turks.
119
Digitized by
b
y
Google
when was it done ? Thou answerest, never. Neither
was it ever done; fo r sin hath covered the earth, as
the waters career the sea; but the knowledge of the
Lord was never yet known to man; neither was
my glory known over the whole earth; neither have
I established the throne of David; neither have Iyet
been the wonderful Counsellor, the everlasting Fa­
ther, the Prince of Peace: for unto them a Child
was born, unto them a Son was given, and the go­
vernment was on my shoulders upon the Gross***
“ Jesus of Nazareth the King of the Jews;’* but
when did I establish my reign r The Jews have no
king nor governor, nation nor city; they aredriveo,
as 1 said, into all countries, and become a pfpy to
their enemies: My Apostles were destroyljfjrfttio
Martyrs burnt; and my Bible is nowbeoMUL
like an old worn out coat, that is no tnoifc fit fpfr
wear: for what is not fulfilled, theyjudge’neverwilT:
but now I will make it as a garment to men that is
interwoven through, to be fulfilled throughout. For.
this wis my knowledge when I made Mam at first,
to take the Man and make him two, the man and
woman : and here I,knew it would begin with the
D eviland the Woman: and so he overcame theMan;
by the Bone, that was taken from him, Satan made
an instrument to destroy that happiness I promised
him. When Icam eatfirst it was like man alone, and
Satan attacked me as he did the woman, but I did
not avenge it on his head, as I knew I could defend
myself; but left it for my second coming in the wo­
man. But, as theperfect Man wasparted, to makelhe
Woman, to complete^htx Father’s will; so must £
come in the Bonyas thepefe e t man at first; and in
the SpiaiTat my second coming, I must come made
t f a woman, made upder the law to redeem those that
were under the Law. Perfectly astheydied in Adam,
* Aarerfectly so they shall betnadealivein me; for, as the
Serpent, that is:
the Devil, overcame the Woman by
-arguments atfirst; so, let all men know, thou hast
overcome him byargumentsaf/aa/. And this was the
120
L Digitized by L j O O Q l e
knowledge of the Lord, when he created the m a n :
The Lord knew that Satan would lie as close to him
as he did to the Angels in Heaven: therefore he
parted the Man to make the Woman. Now, as Man
fell by the Woman, he must rise by the Woman, by
my power, as he fell by Satan’s arts;and she must
overcome the Devil as he overcame her. This must
be known throughout the world, how the knowledge
o f G o d hath preserved Man at last: for now I will
preserve all Men that join with the Woman, and
ascribe the glory and honour due unto my name.
For however ignorant maukind be of thy disputes
with the Devil, there is no man living could write
or act like thee, without1my being with them, to
keep and direct them. Let those ignorant fools
invent such a book themselves, and say it was a
Dispute between the Powers of Darkness and them;
and then forge the Answer of the Lord to it; and
see how long they would live and reign. I tell
thee they could uo more do it, than they could
work the miracles I worked here upon earth.
So let Jews and Gentiles stop their mouths,
Without a murmuring word;
For the whole race of Adam stand
Guilty before their Lord.
The Gentiles here do now appear,
With all their boasted pride,
Blind as the Jeus did then appear—
My Bible’s so a
When I did come,
All this I should fulfil ;
And then establish David's throne,
And them with joy shoald fill.
There's not a promise that is made,
But they did then expect,
That Israel [ should then redeem,
And give them David's seat.
The Mighty Counsellor become,
My Prophet did foretel,
The Prince of Peace— then wars must cease;
But mark how wars did swell;
Invasion round their City came,
And they werfe forc'd to fly;
And where’s the Peace that he did name ?
The Jews they still do cry.
121
pplied.
'twas judg'd by them,
Digitized by Googi____ —^
Tbc increase of my Government
He said should be in Peacc;
And there's no end should be to it,
And David's throne increase.
With Judgment I should set it forth;
For so it shall be done;
And from henceforth for evermore,
The Seed it so shall come ;
Even, the Seed shall ever be—
The zeal of God was so!
But now 1 say, look back and sec
If I the things did do ?
N o; simple people and unwise,
These things are all to come !
I will no longer blind your eyes,
But call you back to Man;
The Woman here must first appear,
And l her Counsellor be ;
And prove to you my Spirit's here,
And plainly now tell ye,
I seethe Gentiles and the Jews,
How they do both appear;
For many then did hear the news,
And so my Followers were;
And now the same, a few are come
Who seek the Truth to know,
And now I'll give them David s throne ;
For what I've said I'll do!
A David's Throne must now be known,
The Keeper of the Sheep ;
And so I'll now advance my own,
That do my Kingdom seek !
That is, I say, to raise you high,
As David was at first;
And you my Friends that judge me nigh,
Will findyour crowns to burst.
So do not fear what Sauls are here;
For I shall raise the Throne;
As Jesse's Son did then appear,
Just so I'll raise my own.
For David's Throne must now be known*
It is to raise you high ;
But if I do exalt but one, ,
Then all the rest may lie ; '
As Subjects here, you may appear;
Then where is David's rihrone ?
But as I did advance that Man,
Just so I’ll raise my own, >
That now will stand like valiant men, ^
Like princes in the fight;
Tor the Goliah he is slain
Now by a Woman's might ;r
1
2
2
Digitized by Google
But sure in mb her might must be,
Or she I know must fall;
So now I'll gain the victory*
And bring in Peace fora ll;
The Heathen Nations I’ll destroy*
And let my sealed cone;
Because my friends I'll qfwifnjoy,
And give them David's Thromb*
”
The Answer o f the Lord to Page 92, tchere the
Seat stands.
MARK, the second Star stands close to the
second Psalm ; and as the I is meant forJesus and
Joanna ; so is my Spirit come to thee; and as
- the Morning Star isa type of Man, and the Evening
Star of the Woman; so now I am come as the /
bright and Morning Star, to reveal my coming to
the Evening Star: and all men shall know I will
set to my seal, and fulfil all that is in thy writings
and this book that is now printing. For here are
the Prophets that prophesied of me, what I was to
fi# l: and now I will fulfil them; so put*thy Seal
to every book in print, with wax by the side of the '
Seal: let not one-go out without being sealed with
wax, and all Men shall find the printed Seal—
* Is signed and sealed by my Command ;
And both together let them stand*
And they shall find I’ll now appear*
And every chapter now I’ll clear, '
And every word I’ll now make good,
And to the Woman now allude:
For Adam said, by her he died:
Then here's an Adam now applied,
That aids you all to live again—
' ’ Obey her voice, I'll not complain:
She says, ike Serpent all must kill,
Ashe did bruise her Saviour’s h e e l :
And she's begun to brujsebis Head,
By every Word to him she said ;
And for her M aster did contend;
And all shall find I’ll stand her frienb,
So much in power like her word;
Her Friends I’ll bless, and send my sword
Her every foe for to destroy;♦
And all her F riends 111 now enjoy.
So let the Woman's Seed appear
In Hand and Heart to jo b with brr.
123
Digitized by Google
And then the Bridegroom they shall see—
Welcome her Friends; they welcome be !
To see the comingof the J.ord,
And Paradise again restor’d ;
As Adam was cast but that way,
The Woman s Hand, he then did say
Gave him the Fruit, and so he died ;
But here's the A dam now applied,
That bids you all turn back this way;
Mark ye the Serpent where he lay,
A nd say, yewallagree to kill,
Because the Woman's blood he'd spill,
Which you confess was Part of Man ;
Then how can you refuse her Hand,
As she was taken from your side ?
Part of the Man must be applied,
And so you must together stand,
I tell you all, both heart and hand,
If ever you will be redeem'd,
Just like my Coat without a Seam.
For how can your Redemption come ?
The Man and Woman both as on k
Did join together in the F all;
And so again, 1tell you all,
That both together you must jo in , K
In heart as on e you must combine,
Before your Bliss can be complete. **
My Fatii er’s words are no deceit;
And l shall prove it in the end ; *
1 died to be the Woman's F r ie n d ,
My F a t h e r ' s promise to fulfil—
I said I’d come to do his Wil l ."
An explanation given to Joanna, in answer to a
person’s saying that the whole of the 24th Chap­
ter of St. Matthew was to be 'fulfilled at the second
coming of Christ. The reader is desired to exa-
mine'tbe 24th and 26th chapters together, with
great attention; they may then discover the events
that befell the Apostles and Disciples of their
Lord, which he told them would happen to them
after his d e a t h t h e destruction of Jerusalem ;
the false prophets and impostors of those days,
&c. By an attentive reading of the two chapters,
any person who searches for the truth, may know
how to separate the two chapters, so as to disco­
ver the calamities that fell in those days, distinct
from the blessings that will attend true aud faith-
124
Digitized by Google
ful believers at this time, when the powers of hell
can only fell on the wicked anti unbelievers,
who would wish to perpetuate huma,n misery, and
continue the dominion of Satan on the human race
without end.
!' Here is the-answer of the Spirit.
: “ How do men read my Bible, without weigh­
ing one thing with another! Let them read both
chapters together, and then they may judge for
themselves: but “
how can theyjudge of one without
theother? In the 24th, I spoke to my disciples of
the destruction of Jerusalem, and their persecution,
and the false prophets that then arose among them.
How did the vagabond Jews try to act like my
disciples ! What sorcery and witchcraft were■then
used amongst the people ! And how they deliver­
ed up my disciples to be killed for my sake! And
how were they hated for my sake ! Ye do notdis-.
cern what is past, or what is to come; what has
been already fulfilled ; and what in to be fulfilled.
The persecution I spoke of followed my disciples;
and now the same spirit is risen against them again:
but he that endures to the end shall be saved. For
now shall my Gospel be preached in all the world:
but this was never yet done. 1 have placed thy
writings to shew mankind how my Bible stands :
and how you must judge it. I told thee of three
good harvests, i f men seek tofind the truth of thy
writings; in the following year 1 told thee of a
fatal harvest, i f unbeliefabounded; so they expect­
ed that to follow before the three following har­
vests of plenty were fulfilled: just so the Jews
judged my Prophets — that I must comefirst in
power and great pomp and glory, to establish the
throne of David, and have the uttermost parts of
the earth for my possession, before I had been
wounded for their stns, and bruised for their ini­
quities, or that the chastisement of their peace was
laid upon me : for as the words were spoken to­
gether, they knew not how to part them asunder;
so both grew together until the harvest of the
D
ig
't
iz
e
c
lb
y
Google ,
125
Lord, which is approaching. And now I shall se­
parate my Bible, and so will I separate the people,
one from the other; for if they look for my com­
ing, to bring in my Kingdom of Peace, they
must look to what is said in the 25th chapter; foir
there I have told you the perfect end, how ye shall
inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the
foundation of the world ; which I made as a gar­
den for Man, that he might be fruitful and mul­
tiply, and replenish the earth, and establish it in
righteousness, aud bring forth good fruit unto m e .
This was thefoundation I laid for you, o f this world
to be in union and communion with your G od ; and
this I promised throughout my Bible to establish
for man. Now7
, ye simple and unwise, how fooU
ishly do ye understand my words or meaning ! If
ye judge the death I warned my disciples would cer­
tainly come to them, and the destruction ofJerusa­
lem, that I said would follow, alluded to the time o(
piy bringinginmy Kingdom ofPeace; thenthefol­
lowing chapter contradicts i t ; and so the fools
may burn their Bibles, and perish for want oi
knowledge, and Israel destroy themselves; and so
may all men destroy themselves, if they judge the
death, that fell on my disciples, must fall on my
followers in the end-: when I said, in the following
chapter, what was done unto my brethren was done
unto me, and so would I reward them ; and they
that despised my disciples despised me and they
Shall be cut off. Now, if ye have no discernment
of what you read, how7it was then fulfilled, and
what was to follow after; one chapter contradicts the
other; for, in the following chapter, it goes well
with my disciples, and all others are cast out with
these words—I know you not! for thus I likened
my coming, to the coming of the Bridegroom;
and so I likened the Kingdom of Heaven to Man.”
126'
plies
Explanation of the provincial wordsnoted in nagelO l. Str o i a l, signifies the
taking together of weeds, &c for btirr'ng. IV tf., the running roots of cotloh
and simitar grasses. Su ll, is the p. -, .bmp-machine itself; and P louo isiiA-
plies both the machine and the cattle fcuo that draw it-
•Digitized'by
biice
