{"name":"On The Prayers For Fast Day","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1804__southcott___on_the_prayers_for_fast_day.pdf","mytitle":"On The Prayers For Fast Day","mylang":"de"}
P R A Y E R S
FOR THE
F A S T D A Y , M A Y , i s o L
LO
N
D
O
N
: MINTED RY 9
. R
O
U
SSE
A
U
, WOOD STREET, S*A FIELD
S^
A
N
D SOLD BY B
. J. FIELD, NO. % HIGH STR
EET* ST.. G
ILE
V
S*
TH
ODOORS FROM THE ANOBl, INN} THE M
ISS EVEtEIGHS EXETER}
AND W. SIM
M
O
N
S, C
lANDY lANE, EXETER. 1804:
Dear M iss T o w k l e V, .
I Shall give you the communication that is
given to me this day, the 24th o f May* after you
jent me the. Form o f Prayer for the Fast Day. 1 was
ordered to call all things to my remembrance in
1796, in answer to the Prayers for the Fast I
then ordered thee to Write to Pomeroy, and in that
year to put in his hand o f the Bishop’s death *. But
now I have ordered thee to warn the Bishops and the
Clergy in May ; and now in May the Fast is > and/
out of their own mouths will f condemn them all, if
they are neither hot ndr cold, but lukewarm ; for
the Letters Were Written to warn the Clergy before
the Fast cam e; therefore I ordered one to be hastily
sent to the Bishop, and to have the Letters hastily
printed. So if they are now lukewarm, they are con­
demned from the very Scriptures they have placed.
If they say they have wisdom and want nothing, then
I tell them they arc blind and naked. 1 have coun­
selled them to buy of me true gold ; that they maybe
clothed, that the shame o f their nakedness may not
appear ; and to anoint their eyes with eye-salve that
they may see { for as many as I love I rebuke ; and
this Nation I have rebuked, as there are many in i t .
whom 1 lo v e ; but let them not-think the French
are sinners above all men, because they have dona
these things. I tell them nay, but unless they re­
pent they shall all likewise perish. N ow let them
* This took place at the en«l o f the 3car.
A
Digitized by Google
( » )
nark the lesson in Isaiah, the 38th chapter,— la
those days was Hezekiah sick unto death, and a Sign
was given him from the Lord. Now let the learned
answer whip the Sign, was for ? Could I not have re­
stored liitn without giving him a Sign, and do the
thing I had promised him ? Could he not take m y
word without a bond ? Yet I gave a Sign to Heze­
kiah. And now I have given Signs unto the Nation :
I f they turn unto me, as Hezekiah did, my threaten-
ings shall go backwards; and I will save this Nation,
that is condemned to die by judgments; but if they
will not lay it to heart, as Hezekiah did, -they shall
fhll by the Signs o f the convulsions placed in the
Child. So here is the Sign set before them ; and
the Signs o f the Gospel are now come, from the
many false Christs that have appeared. Two false
Christs have written to thee; therefore I ordered
thee to keep their letters, to prove that false Christs
were com e; and two others have told thee they
were the Christs, and wanted thee to trust to them
for Redemption. Yet they confess they never were
visited by the Spirit o f Prophecy, or had any pow­
er given them of working o f Miracles. So the Sign
o f false Christs hath appeared unto thee, as well as
the Signs o f Tumults and W ar. But I should act like
men, to come to one part o f the chapter and not g o
through the whole. For I tell thee, that chapter is
like thy writings.— The shadow fulfilled in the de­
struction o f Jerusalem, and what followed after to
my disciples; but the end was not theft; for men
have stopped where I shall begin— W hen ye see Je­
rusalem compassed with armies, know the desolation
is nigh; and that desolation followed Jerusalem.
But can man say the end followed then— to see m e
com e in a cloud with great, Poweh and G lory ? I
tell thee no— But now the time is at hand, that all
these things shall be fulfilled— and man's Redemp­
tion draws n igh : For the Kingdom o f G od is nigh
at hand. But the fulfillment o f the chapter * is as
• The xxxviiith of baiab.
Digitized by Google
t>£AA M iss T o w k l e y , • .-j
N ow I shall tell you the reasons assigned to me,
why you was permitted to have the Book altered*
from the first directions that .were given mo.; and
then I was ordered the Book should not go oaf in,
the world so, but take away your letter, where you
9ay Christ is Coming the Helpmate in the W oman,'
to shew mankind they had done by their Bibles^
as t am ordered now to do by the Book : they ,havc^
taken away the first promise that was made them
therefore you are ordered to have one thousand halt
sheets printed, beginning, with the Church-Prayers,;
as far as the leaf was sent, and then let all the others
stand as they are *. If the readers enquire why -the
Prayers of the Fast stand printed twice in one Book,
the answer is given : because by their taking away-
the first promise, that the serpent's head must not
he bruised, nor the Woman made a helpmate for
M an's good, by the death o f Christ; that as in
Adam all died, even so in Christ shall all be made,
alive; this they have taken away, and placed theit
Bibles for to crucify the Lord, afresh, and tq have
Idin) die twice,.,as the Prayers are printed twice.
And. now this Book must go out one thousand with
this half sheet, to convince mankind the way they
are .taking their,names out o f the Book o f Life, and
the other six thousand, must go out. as they are
printed, after my trial is over. Now the readers may
ask, how this confusion came ? T o this I answer,
I was ordered to begin the Book with the Players
on the Fast; and one proof sheet was printed so,
which was sent to Bristol, to Miss Tqwnley ; and
she not knowing the order was given me from the
Lord, wrote to M r. Sharp to alter the beginnings
and have the Book begin with the letters sh.e sent}
* Two distressing difficulties here pperated on the heart o f Joanna.
The Lord's cotnmaod she must obey; and her faithful friend she could
not offend; who not knowing of the Lord's command had (nnocently
given contrary orders. Joanna was afraid the contempt might appear
S ther friend, which was intended for. the clergy, who had treated
letters with scorn and derisipj;; therefore they w$re ordered by
divine commandto be withdrawn, and published after the Trial.
Q Digitized by O O ^ C
( 3 )
( 4 ),
to the Bishops. This was done unknown to rue, aft$s
that I was ordered to call, in every' printed letter,
that no one might be able to have one, as tlje
Ministers were turning them back, with infamous
scorn and contem pt; and I was answered, not one
o f them that had returned the letters should ap­
pear in my presence; and that they might not be
•able to forge1them, or produce any thing o f. the
kind,' every letter was called in, and every1Minister
that doth appear, must bring his letter with'him dnd
swear by Him that liveth, the letter Was sent hin^
arid1he has kept it ; and other Ministers that ever
appbar in my presence must swear by Him that
liveth, they never had a letter sent them ; for every
man that has turned back his letter is as an evj|
forbidden fruit to me, that I would fly from, an
from the face o f a serpent; and as a serpent they
must fly from me, for now is coming the New Co-!
venant with M an, The Lord will do away the first
and establish the last, by the W oman’sperfect obe­
dience ; and to prevent her seeing the forbidden
fruit, they are bound by this oath, never to com e
in he|p presence, that we may not foil the second
time ; for then the last error would be worse than
the first. Therefore when I saw th e!Book, it is
fruitless p pen the horror I felt, fearing we had
done w rong; and recollecting, in a letter o f M r .
Sharp, wherein he said he had altered the title
page, which I understood was the outside leafj
which I did not approve of, but when I saw, in ano*
ther letter, he had altered the whole, theworld w ill
see what f must have suffered, but not one quarter
part can they be a judge o f what I suffered, from two
o'clock, yesterday till ten o’clock to-day; but this
will appear in another letter, and now I shall give
the answer o f the Spirit, as it is spoken in verse :
Now Joanna thee 111 answer,
Perfect as thy book is here,
Perfect so I now do tell thee
.All the learned do appear.
They take away, I now do say9
The promise t a t was pipe
Digitized by Google
( 5 .)
And so their wisdom doth betray
And crucify me twice ; '
And perfect so- thy book shall go.
In pnnt to men appear;
The leaf that thou to Sharp best sent
Must now be printed there,
As it is sent fopto begin,
And this must follow next:
Until the half sfteet it do end.
And then the whole III fix,
T o prove to man thatso they’re come
My Life for to.betcay\
The very ends for which I died
They now do take away;
And me again for to be slain
The second time for mam
For perfect*as thy bookdoes lay
The learned lay their plan; '
It's plainly seen, for Fu begin.
Ana from thy books appear,
The promise'first was made to m af
Satan his curse should share.
If I did mine, my life resign
And offer it up for man, *
It was to do iny father’s wjQ8
And in the help-mate cpme;
Then for his good the promise stoo^i
But this they took away;
‘ 1 ’ appear,
Tbat i acam now must be slain
Now in the Woman's form,
So twice'they have plac’d their death for HI*
In Spirit now Fm come.
In love to aH is now my call
But it you take away.
As TownleyY bounty now doth fall.
The cost on her dpth lay,
W hich I remov'd, to shew my love
That I with her compare;
You take my bounty all away,
As thou hast taken here
Her love to waste, as this is plac’d,
For to reject her hand.
This very thing I did ordain
T o bring it to yoqr Land,
That just like thee the world now bfe
T o know their every * ili;
They take away my perfect Ipvct
Andfplace me twice t6 spill
My Blood foratt, to free the Fall^
And this would never do.
And now the mystery I'll explain.
In coming to you Tw o:
Pad this been dong, by thy command#
Digitized by
' ( « )
Because thou order’st first;
And though thou in her bounty stand,
And thy own pride to burst,
And alter so, though .thou dost know
The strength in her doth stand,
Thy labours now for to go through*
Ana couid’st thou so command,
Thy pride to shew it should not go
As she had plac'd it there?
For thou to.say another way,
Thy honour can't appear,
Because the first by thee was plac'd*
Thou sayest by thy command;
And though the love,in her doth burst,
Thou would'st not let her stand,
Though she obey'd in what Xhou say’st*
And wish’d it to appear
Unto the world as it was lai^
T o prove her honour clear.
Ana thou by nride thrown all aside*
Ingratitude nfltat com e:
And from the ponderings of thy heart,
I now will answer man;
Ungrateful love thipe now must prove,
Ana thou thyself should’st hate,
If thou by pride throw’d her's aside*
That sbew'd her love so great;
What monster here must thou appear*
Her boundless love to scorn ;
Because in pride thou would’st appear
T o shew the power thy own, •
When thou hast nope, to me *tisknown,
For friends do thee support:
And would’st thou swell thy pride so hi&h
Thy faithful friepds to hurt ?
Thou answerest no, the truth is so.
For thou would’st sooner die,
That epipty way thy pride to shew,
Thy faithful friend deny *
Her justice here to shew it clear,
That she did me obey; *
And in the fropt for to appear.
Thy honour stands that way.
I f you could see the mystery,
How every thing is plac’d :
Because that she did thee obey,
So empty pride must burst.
I say, in thee for to deny,
And this tbou dost discern,
N o honour in thee could there be,
But pride and empty scorn:
This thou see'st plain, I'll answer men,
That just thesame, they mock my Name,
By pride and empty scorn: A
But I'll no further answer here,
The Blind-Man next must come.
Digitized by Google
C 7 >
THE A N S W E R O F T H E S P IR IT T O J O A N N A ’ S
P A R A B L E O F T H E B L IN D M A N .
Now from thy Parable III answer here:
If men don't come thy every Tnith to clear*
Then such Impostors they must surely be
As in the Blind-Man mentioned there by thee*
And much more strong shall the words appear
Than in the Parable is mention'd there;
For now unto the Blind-Man I will com e: .
He form'd his judgment and he form*d his plan
As in the dark to him all things appear*
And in the dark he'll find his judgment there.
T o his own judgment* as he cannot see
Whether it is right or wrong, as form'd by he;
Because the man is mentioned to be blind.
And so he gropeth and may another find
Just like himself and equally blind to be *
' Perhaps in judgment these two. might agree
In all onejudgment as the first did form*
For of the colour neither could discern ;
So black for white may unto both appear.
But now comes on the thing I mean to clear:
Suppose a man encompass'd with these two*
Wnose eves were open plain before his view
Should tellthem they draw'd theirjudgmentwrong*
For by his sight he could the thing discern*
And tell them plain they draw'd their judgment wrong;
Suppose the Blind-Man then should boldly swear*
If you condemn our judgment* now we'll tear
You all in pieces: impotence must be
T o say its wrong the judgment drawn by we;
So now together, though we're blind we’re strong,
And out your eyes, like ours, shall surely come;
For why should Heaven give to you more light
Than we have got ? No, now we will fight,
Isay, together, till we have made you blind;
No greater favour you from God shall find
Than we have got; for if you do see
W e are resolved to make you blind as we*
Unless unto us now you nrn\will swear
You'll join with us, and prove ourjudgment clear*
* That we did surely draw ourjudgment right;
W e boldly now tell you that we will fight*
Unless you'll swear jhat you are blind as we*
And with your eyes the thing the samed a see.
This you snail do, -if you your eyes will save—
0 Perjure your soul before we ll let you live;
Because that in our power now you are come,
And though we’re blind, yet know we two are strong;
Digitized by Google
( « J
And now W
ehave got you w ell not let you go*
Unless you'll swear that our blind eves are true*
This you $h*U <
fc>
t tt else vte'D mate you blind.
And pullout both your eyes, you soon shall find
Now, In tbis matiher, HI suppose a man
W ho is in power, and in power strong*
T o work themiracles that were Wroughtby M£:
I tell you friends, if you W
ill butagree
T o let me putsome eye-salve fd you herd,
And then ton both with me, shall now see clear *
But if the {rial do not make you see,
Then unto yotir proposals I’ll agree.,
But how (heir answer if it thus should com e:
W e want no eye-sight; 'tis vours we’condemn;
Because by begging we get for to be blind,
And though we"grope we still a path can find
T o make our way men's pity to implore;
W e want no eye-sight for to labour here:
No, no, vain man, we chuse for to be blind.
Because by it our Livings we do find
With much more ease tnatt those who have eyes to sees
And so in blindness now we chuse to be.-—
Then now Til answer for the man that'9strong:
You bold Impostors, from my sight be gone l
And o f your begging I will now take care,
You shall not set your bread by begging here*
You said that Heaven should not give to me
The light o f sight that was not given ye,
Unless I turn'd my blessings to a curse*
That alt alike, in suffering, might be lost)
But now that blessing I did offer here,
That you with me in sight might now see clear#
Your tnfkmy W
assoon discover'd here,
You bold Impostors, impudent you are come.
You thought me weak, for to hold out so long
Your subtle arts m all for to find out:
I knew the reason that your eyes were shut;
And why my eyes you wish'd to shut the same,
And say, by blindness yt>u could judgment form )
Because in Blindness you Wish'd for to appear,
And boast oftudgtnent that some merit were
T o place witnin you, though you both were blind#
That in the world you might some honour find:
And force the world your merit to believe,
Yourselves and others you thought to deceive;
But When I offer’d you should judge aright,
And told you both I would restore your sight,
Then back the curtains they Were quickly draWo,
And your impotency you soon did own;
And then the Strong Alan, he may answer here*
You must hdve eve-sight ere you can appear •
Ever to have Mt In your power more,
Fbr now I tdt you plain, rve bott’d thedoor—
Digitized by C j O O ^ I ^
( 9 )
with blackness: and now they are writing to wartt
the bishops and clergy.—
u Here is a type stands dteep for ail i
Thisfuneral xoill bring on the cdll ' v
T o make the shepherds to appear—
--
Therefore the shadow I plac'd there*
T o have the likeness at the first
But now the substahte it is plac’d :
A perfect funeral how fa come;
And so the substance will go on
T o have thy Trial to appear—
They'll find these shadows first were the#:
But now the substance it is come,
And event substance will be known,
Jn perfect likeness to appear:
They’ll find the substan e now fa near;
For all as shadows 1 plac’d first,
But now the substance I place last,
T o bring thy awful trial on—
AndTowoley’s tiembline will be known,
That strong in thee it will appear,
As in thy stead I’venow plac’d her,
And in thy stead sftfe bold may stand—
The heavens with blackness how command,
And now my blackness will appear,
If men don’t hasty waken here,
As the so early did awake,
I say, my clouds on them shall break;
Because, from shadows all shall see,
Such things were ne’er brought round by thee;
To place the shadows at the first,
That like a funeral this Should burst •
And now the funeral doth appear,
From innocence ho sin was here
Ever committed by the child—
And here the learned men are foil’d ;
As I compared with my own:
Then here the child must sure be known
In innocence, I sav, to die—
And mark the words were said to thee,
When that the shadow' did appear,
Thou know'st, the child I tola thee there:
T o shew* my Birth* the child must tom e;
And so my Dbath a shadow then.
But now the shadow’s in the child,
To shew my death, to reconcile
The world to God—like him I died
Ih strong convulsions then for man.
* That is, the writings put in a vault at Paddington, a shadow then
•
fth
eb
u
ria
lnow.
ft
Digitized by
The Garden first you must dfiscerty
Whdt Agonies I then did bearl
And how the midnight hour drew near#
As my Convulsions were Within.—■
My feelings were unknown to Men
W hat for their sakes I then did bear;
As well i knew my chosen were
T o suffer then the like for Me—
And then the Jews 1 knew were cast,
T o prove the mysteries at the last,
That dead to knowledge man was corner
As I at first pronounced him;
And so their knowledge it was dead;
And by their death my Blood was shed ;
Because that me they aid not know,
From all the wonders l did show, .
As never could be work'd by man.
And now in spirit l am come
T o work by Wisdom uow the same,
And man khows not from whence it came
T o see these mysteries so brought round;
They cannot tell from whence the sound, x
Before some others do appear ,
T o make these mysteries out more clear;
And then they'll own their knowledge dead
T o every thing before them laid;
That they did uever understand
It was a Work bv my Command;
Because theyjudg'd I could not go
T o stoop to man m things so low.
From types and shadows to appear
In language low, no man could clear,
T o see the depth, how all is plac'd.
You ne’er discern'd, ye fallen race,
How I from shadows plac’d all first.
Nor how the likeness it did burst
The type of Isaac plac'd before, •
And so my death it did appear.
And then the Brazen Serpent see;
For as I saythey look'd on me,
Nought hut a Serpent to appear,
As from the Jews, theyjudg’d me there.
So from these shadows none do see
How deep they’re plac’d as types of me ;
And let mv Gospel to appear;
From Parables I told them there,
Ilow I had liken'd every Ihing.
Now all'to your remembrance bring.
Then all these shadow’s you’d see clear
Doth with my Bible all compare.
From types and shadows I began,
From types I now shall make an end;
So from this tvpe 1now do say *,
Here is a shadow plac'd this day,
* Child’s convulsions, death, and burial.
( 10 )
Digitized by Google
( n )
How all the substance will appear,
For the death warrant's hastening here:
Unto the shepherds this will be,
And their convulsions you will see
T o be much greater than the child's;
For now the learned will bo foil'd.
For here's a mystery none do see,
How the Tenth Year these things must be#
T o hqve thy letters blaz'd abroad,
A way that man ne'er understood ;
Butjudg’d the letters sent before*
Did in like manner so appear;
But then thy letter could not be,
Thou publish'd then the miud o f ME
In public letters for to send;
But now I tell thee, by thyfriend
Thy letter is publish'd all abroad:
And all the others will be know'd
T o fly ahroad to pian the same
For here’s the letters i did oanief*
That I should make to fly abroad;
And now their conduct will be know'd#
For different roads they now will take#
Until they fiqd the truth to break.
But from"what shadows you don't discern
The way pr manner 1 to you do want;
It was a private letter blaz'd abroad.
When in November every truth was know'd:
And now to make the likeness all agree,
It is the private letter ( tell thee,
That by the public now must fly abroad ;
For like the shadows must the truth be know'd;
For so the substance in the eud must burst,—
You ne’er discern'd the manner of the first,
Nor how the shadow it did first appear:
When Pomeipy read his name in public there,
That thou didst putin print by my Command,
put now the substance all may understand.’*
(signed,) Joanna Southcott.
D e ar M i s s T o w n l b y , M ay 2 3 d . 1 8 0 4 ,
In answer to the Letters being returned, you say,
theday the child was buried, and the Letters sent the
• ParliamentLetters,
t See p
age82ofJoannas Six B
ooksof Prophecies
I 2
Digitized by Google
( )
day he was designed to be, nuried, I was answered it
the following manner -
.
“ As this day was designed for tfre child’s funeral,
and this day the letters are sent, it will be for their fu­
nerals if the living do not lay it to heart. Bijt as the
child was buried the day before, and the letters did not
go that day, if they come forward like the letters, the
funeral is gone before’them ; and by the child’s death
they may have life. If they do as these have done,
■to improve their time for the future, and be(. Strict to
obey my Commands; thenl shall change.rpy> Threa-
tenings into Blessings, as thy Brother changed his
‘funeral; and my sunshine sh 11 rise upon .them. If
they now turn unto m e , I will now turn'unto them.
And now I will tell thee why I have mad? tfy?e a pri­
soner : Because I'know; the weakness of. thy nature,
mind, and heart. I; pu? thee to the trial by Pome­
roy, and saw the weakness, of. thy heart -
, thou hadst
no fortitude to withstand one mart, but signed thy
name, to flense him, to what he never said but on ce;
and that was by putting his name in print, which he
Said was from the devil; but he never said thy wri­
tings were *. But as he complained to thee; thou hadst
no fortitude to dispute with him* Therefore, now I
have made thee a prisoner, to see no one before it is
disputed by those that have more strength and forti­
tude than thou hast g o t; and not to gi,ye up to any
before they give their strong reasons, why they
judge thy prophecies come froni the D evil; and how
they can prove such types and shadows were first pla­
ced by him ; and how the substance came in such
manner, in the tenth year, wherein thou sawest the
light o f the candles; and how thy Brother should have'
a Son in that very year, that had nought but daugh­
ters before,: hut he said he. had a Son dead-bpfn be­
fore the time. And now I tell thee, like dead-born
* See. 70 of the Second Bipok o ff.r fters.
Digitized by G o o g l e
C )
hefpce time, all have beep 5 bufc now
tj*e living children shall appear.— Here thy hgwt
b^gipoetb; to ponder: W ilf the living;children' die,
tyke* theobUd-' T o this-1 answer.the livittg; chil« .
deep, that ape to die before rpy Kingdom is establish-*
cd an tlpsr Earth, shall die as innocent as the child
4id ; ,fop I will not-,impute, any moreain to them thto
I imputed to the,child, that had committed no sin.
But as tht chikL’-Stname shall stand for. ever in remem­
brance, and dying in convplsiqns is left, or* record^
so shall theu. nam^> for ever ,sundsi honour ta
them; and their virtues be recorded, like the child’s
convulsions, for the pains.they havei taken to bring
ina guilty land. So here I have compared my living
children to the dying child, i f they, die before my
Kingdom is established*1 But, as the other was
living, all will not die before the time ; 'but the child,
that standeth as a type I. compared, o f my Death,
must die before the time, to shew the shadow o f thy
Writings, which I. ordered as a sign to put as in the
grave * ; and so, by the child’s death, I ordered my
Shepherds to be warned., to bring them forth by the
death o f the child. Now let the learned’answer, how
Satan should place the writings first as a shadow o f
death, and how death should come to thy Brother's
Sqn in the tenth year o f the Vision -p, and' in the
month o f May to die ia convulsions j a month that I
threatened a fatal month for man? Let thesetliings be
answered by the learned, before I permit thee to ap­
pear : for well L know thy weakness; and as Satan
cannot overcome thee in afiy form he can come him­
self, I know he will try, as an angel o f light, ta
come in man. Therefore I will not leave thee to
Man, as Adam left Eve to the Serpent. Thou hast
trusted to my protection, and my protection thou
shah' have,:' for i myselfhaye mad; thee a prisoner;
• A vault under the High House at Paddington.
t.See page 17 ° ( the first six Books of Prophecies, 1794.
Digitized by Google
( M )
and it would be fatal for any man to sefck to find thee
out, to break my prison doors, before they have
brought thee to a fair Trial, then thou sHalt appear ;
and as my guardian angels have guarded and kept thee
from all the arts and power of hell* now let m y
friends, brothers, mother, and sister, keep thee from
all die arts and power o f m en; for there will Satan
try to work, to prevent the truth frdm being tried
and proved; as he knoweth, if the truth is tried an<^.
proved, they will prove the calling from the L ord}
jmd<t{ien m t ' pjpQDOM mudtcpp^e iii—?
As men's dttire will daily come *
T o wish m Kingdom to appear;
And then he knpws I’ll hripg it here* ’
And then kit Kingdom it rou«'t foil.
And W>w l ted vou ope ;.i\dalh .
That men s dp»ire must f\ st appear
Be ovo ] hi Kingdom here; . * 1
And tnej desires I soon shall know
* \Vhen i have prov’d my writings tr\i$^
Because thy writings are from me, ,
That every soul shall know and see;
1 or sp I’ll prove thym in the ehd. . l4, ,,
But first with tnan ! shall contend,
T o see what in them all do lye,
And thep thovll find I'm come in thea*
So strong in power for to appear,
That all shell know their Lord is here,
, (That in the end 1 said should com e; .-!"
In marvellous thing? appear .to man^ » •
' Aim so mankind may marvel here
] fThe way that I in thee appear,
, . T o keep the* secret at tne first, :-
Before men’s judgment it is cast;
• And then in wonders to appear, " ‘
The sacred Truth then in ail to deat>— -
And this to Townley thou must send,
And tell her, as a faithful friend,,
W here thou residest no man must know,
Before their judgment they dp shew,
T o tell from whence thy writings came.
And then they’ll surely know my Name.
(< Now let Townley answer all that enquire for thee,
the Lord has commanded her not to tell; for she
will not tell them; and it is fruitless for the Serpent
to come in man to her, and tell her that it is the
Digitized by L s o o g i e
( . W )
Lord’ s command to conceal thee. She must tell them/
they must convince her, from strong arguments and
just reasons, how this is all brought round by the
Devil,, before she will disobey the command o f the
Lord.”
Here, my d'ear Miss Townlcy, you see what a
strict charge is given to you, not to discover
my abode ; neither must you let my friends in Lon­
don know what place you have taken for me, o f
where my abode is. I am very comfortable, and
hope to have the happiness o f seeing you soon. I am
sure o f the pleasure of seeing Underwood every day,
to bring me all the news, and to receive the direc­
tions. I have another communication to write you
to-morrow; but you know I must have my secretary.
The Lord bless you, and strengthen you to stand the
fiery trial with men. The people in this house are
very quiet and civil. Accept my kind love; and am
yours sincerely in heart and mind.
(Signed,) Joanna Southcott.
Another communication added, May 24th, morning,
in answer to the wind andrain that came on soon ajter
the Utters were gone out o f town by the mail; and con­
veyed in the same Utter.
- M As the wind and rain arose when the coach was
carrying the warning to mankind, and the cup is now
held out to man, they may drink it which way they
will: for Townley hath wisely discerned, to weigh
the past with the present. Therefore I told thee at
Leeds, that were she called forward to give account
of her faith, she could give a clearer judgment than
man; because she hath discerned what is fulfilled,
and what is not. Therefore I have chosen her to
warn the shepherds ; and if they take not the warn-
Digitized by
( )
mg, they shall find the fibods o f sbWrowto come tfjtoft
them. But how could I strike before l warn ? I
warned the Parliament; and they refused the warn­
ing, and the sword o f war followed; but now is com e
the second warning, from the woman’s hand to thfc
shepherds. Therefore I compared her to my mother,
as she is daily seeking to support my honour and
great N am e: for they that honour thy Writings,
honour me that gave th em ; for all shall know they
are from Me the 'l iv in g L ord. So they that ho­
nour me, I will honour ; and they that despise Me ,
shall be lightly esteemed ; for they that desprsfe thy
Writings must despise the Spirit, and do despite to
the Spirit of God. Then they shall find I will do
despite unto them : btit how can I strike before I
warn ? I tell thee, no ! The warning must first go
out in the world before 1 strike ; and the sooner the
Warning is given, the sooner will my hand appear j
for my hand shall follow the warning, as the rain and
wind followed the letters in their journey. So there
is no time for trifling now— The King's business re-
quireth haste ; and as they wish to have it come in
haste, in haste let them proceed with the warning,
and my hand shall be close after. Therefore I said
the man and woman should join together : and now
let my brethren join as in one family in the Lord,
with my mother and sister, to warn my shepherds i
they that are not my shepherds will not regard the
warning,—■
For now my shepherds I shall try,
T o see what m them all doth He *
And if no milk in them is found,
Then they may tremble at the sound ?
For now like Woolland Til go on ;
T o try my flock I now am come;
For all are shadows plac'd before.
But now the substance shall appear:
Because the substance is begun,
1 tell thee, from thy brother s son ;
And so the substance shall abound,
The truth in all shall now be found;,
1 know thy writings, how they stand#
And every truth they shall commandj
Digitized by G o o g l e
t i
Because I said I'd make all dear
Before that I had ended het e,
And foil'd the wisdom of mankind.
Now I shall tell you the meaning o f Mr. Woolland :
in 1796* the year the Bishop died, M n W oolland
had bought a nock o f sheep; but not knowing whe­
ther they were with lamb or not, he killed one for a
trial; and said if there was no milk gathered in the
others, as there was no lamb in the one he killed, all
his flock should go to the butchers. It was then said
to me, the Lord would do as W oolland had done t ' '
he would cut off one te try what was in the rest.
But if I find my shepherds'dry,
And no true milk in them doth lie:
Then sure like Woolland I'll go on,
Till all my flock be dead and gone:
For now the branch I will cut off.
T o make my vineyard spring;
But if I find 'tis not enough,
1 11 surely cut your land.
.This was in 1796, when the Bishop’s death was
put as a shadow ; but now it is coming to the sub­
stance.
PRAYERS ON THE FAST DAY, MAY *5, 1804.
D e a r M i s s . T o w n l e y , ‘
I Shall give you the communication that is
gjyen to me this day, the 24th o f May, after you
sent me the Form of Prayer for the Fast Day. I was
ordered to call all things to my remembrance in
1796, in answer to the Prayers for the Fast:— “ I
then ordered thee to write to Pomeroy, arid in that
year to put in his hand of the Bishop's death*. "But
• This took placeat theend of theyear.
C
Digitized by
now I have ordered thee to warn the Bishops and the
Clergy in May ; and now in May the Fast is ; and
out of their own mouths will I condemn them all, if
they are neither hot nor cold, but lukewarm ; for
the Letters were written to warn the Clergy before
the Fast came; therefore I ordered one to be hastily
sent to the Bishop, and to have the Letters hastily
printed. So if they are now lukewarm, they are con ­
demned from the very Scriptures they have placed.
If they say they have wisdom and want nothing, then
I tell them they are blind and naked. I have coun­
selled them to buy of me true gold ; that they maybe
clothed, that the shame o f their nakedness may not
appear ; and to anoint their eyes with eye-salve that
they may see; for as many as I love I rebuke ; and
this Nation I have rebuked, as there are many in it
whom I love ; but let them not think the French
are sinners above all men, because they have done
these things. I tell them nay, 'bu t unless they re­
pent they shall all likewise perish. N ow let them
mark the lesson in Isaiah, the 38th chapter,— In
those days was Hezekiah sick unto death, and a Sign
was given him from the Lord. Now let the learned
answer what the Sign was for ? ■Could I not have re­
stored him without giving him a Sign, and do the
thing I had promised him ? Could he not take m y
word without a bond ? Yet I gave a Sign to Heze­
kiah. And now I have given Signs unto the Nation :
I f they turn unto m e , as Hezekiah did, mythreaten-
ings shall go backwards; and I will save this Nation,
that is condemned to die by judgments; but if they
will not lay it to heart, as Hezekiah did, they shall
fall by the Signs o f the convulsions placed in the
Child. So here is the Sign set before them ; and
the Signs o f the Gospel are now come, from the
many false Christs that have appeared. Two false
Christs have written to thee; therefore I ordered
thee to keep their letters, to prove that false Christs
were com e; and two others have told thee they
( 18 )
Digitized by G o o g l e
were the Christs, and wanted thee to trust to them
for Redemption. Yet they confess they never were
visited by the Spirit of Prophecy, or had any pow­
er given them of working o f Miracles; So the Sign
of false Christs hath appeared unto thee, as well as
the Signs o f Tumults and War. But I should act like
men, to come to one part o f the chapter and not go
through the whole. For I tell thee, that chapter is
like thy writings.— The shadow fulfilled in the de­
struction o f Jerusalem, and what followed after to
my disciples; but the end was not then ; for men
have stopped where I shall begin— When ye see Je­
rusalem compassed with armies, know the desolation
is nigh; and that desolation followed Jerusalem.
But can man say the end followed then— to see mb
come in a cloud with great Power and G lory ? I
tell thee no— But now the time is at hand, that all
these things shall be fulfilled— and man's Redemp­
tion draws nigh : For the Kingdom o f G o d is nigh
at hand. But the fulfillment o f the chapter * is as
much neglected by man, as they have proposed not
reading it through ; for I tell thee, men stop where
they ought to begin. Now I shall come to the 20th
verse o f the other Lesson-f- —Believe in the Lord your
God, so shall you . be established ; believe his
Prophets so shall ye prosper. See the xxxviith Psalm
the 9th versfe to the 16th— Those that wait upon
the Lord shall inherit the earth; and the xiixth
Psalm at the 4th verse— I will incline mine ear to
Parables. Now. I tell thee, the very Chapters and
Psalms, which they have chosen, allude to the last
days. The Sign given to Hezekiahof the Sun's go­
ing backward, is a Sign how all shall go back­
ward, when those that wait upon the Lord shall
inherit the earth. . For those Signs were given
fer the end. And now I shall speak from Parables:
• The xxxviiith of Isaiah.
t %Chron. xxth chapter*
C 2
C 19 )
Digitized by Google
I have compared all thy Writings to Parables; and
from the Bible are Parables ; and I shall now com e
to Parables here, from the Epistle— I have sent m j
juigel unto thee—
( 20 )
• T o warn the Churches here—
When the Creation first was laid.
My witness roust appear,
What on the Serpent there was cast,
I say, the every blame.
And now ’s the time it so must burst—
Not hot nor cold you came:
What Blasphemy was judg’d by ye ?
Then, how will you appear?
Out of my mouth I'll spue you all;
My honour 1see here
You don’t regard that you have err’d,
But say she does blaspheme
Against My Name; then now I’ll shame
The learned sons of men;
Because your love I now will prove
Not hot iior cold to be.
For soon the cause, I know, you’d proven
If you hadlove for me :
So if you’ve not I’ll tell your lot*
F ori shall spue you all.
If sickly is yourlove ’o me.
T o let my honour fall.
If you do say that blasphemy
Is m this Woman here,
And never try to stop her band,.
T o make it to appear ;
?ecause to you, i’ll prove it true,
he words 1shallallude.
The Jews they didnot so appears
In fiery zeal they stood;
But worse than they you Gentiles be.
T o iudge she doth blaspheme,
And never come the truth to see,
In honour to my Name.
Then blind you be, I now tell ye.
Yea, miserable and poor;
Because your hearts are gone from mb—
You judge your earthly store
Enrich you all; but now I call,
Your nakedness I see;
How, void of grace, you now must fall,
That have no love for me;
Then e e salve heie must now appear
T o open all your eyes;
Or else the ditch the blind may fear,
For 1 shall now chastize
This very land, where now I’m comf
Digitized by Google
( *1 )
In S f irit to appear,
For to give eye salve now to men*
And bring my Gospel here—
For where you end I shall begin*
My Gospel to go through—
My Kingdom nowis nigh at hand*
And all shall find it true.
So now take care, I warn you here,
That ye may boldly stand;
When in the clouds 1 do appear
For to redeem the Lands
From misery— mankind will see
I shall the lands redeem.
And that you may lift up your heads
My warnings plain are seen;
J------------ ,A,! you here,
Because the visions do appear
That in the end will burst*.
So i'll go on where man did name**
" I f you believe your God
You must discern what there is penn’d*
My Gospel must be know'd,
That so must come, 1 tell thee plain*
Then iudge my prophets true,
And tnen the victory you shall gain;
For as I then did do
III do akain, ye sons of men*
If you like him appear;
Jehoshaphat is m my view,
- Though man had ended here f
Not to go through as he did do*
But you must go through all—
Or like the Gospel chosen by you*
I tell you this will fall.
Yeu must repent and now relent
That you stood out so long;
Or else, I say to thee this day*
Your ruin now will come;
Because ’tis you my angels warn’d,
I say by my Command.
Then now, Oh! England will you stand
For to protect your land,
If I appear to spue you here,
As lukewanu frienas to m e ?
Yourselves with it you must compare;
For now I this tell thee:
That with the French you can’t compare—
For hot and cold they be:
Hot in the zeal of their pursuits;
A n d love to me quite cola.
Then this to England sure must be— *
The mysteries I’ll unfold,
f Senthe Prayerreadon theFast Day, p. 11.
t Only partofthe chapter w
as commandedto be read.
Digitized by Google
( . M )
That this epistle doth allude*
And own the truth plac d here.
For if my Kingdom is at hand*
I see they do not care:
And if my name thou dost blaspheme.
T o ruinall my land,
There is not love enough in man
For God and man to stand,
In love appear to t>ee all dear,
Their takewarm hearts 1 see:
And if their hearts are frozen here,
Their ruin it will be.
For like the wind it now shall come*,
They'll find my fury to go on—
If now they mock me by their Fait
They'll find my anger for Unburst.
They own my judgments do appear,
And for their sins I’ve smitten here
Their gracioys Sovereign Lord the Kiug t !!!
They own’d my judgments in the thingj
Then let them know when it did begin,
That 1atfirst did afflict their King,
And see my judgments to roll on.
From their own words I now am come
T o answer back, in every line;
As they allow the judgments mine.
And this 1 told thee of before,
That in this manner should appear,
If men my anger did provoke—
I told thee there I’cf bring the stroke j
And now they've own’d the stroke is come! I
From their own mouths I’ll now condemn,
I say, my shepherds every where—
If they deny my judgments here,
When they have warn’d them in the Fast,
From their own words I now shall burst ;
Because 1 said the stroke was there
When first th$ news it did appear;
And said the papers thou must sealj.
But now mv mind I shall reveal:
Since men have own’d my words are true,
I’ll bring all mysteries to thy view:
I meant to have them own itfirst,
And then the truth 1 meant should burst,
How 1 from shadows did beijin,
And brought my judgments In the Spring;
In the same month they did appear
That in.thy Book was printed there:
# On Thursday afternoon the wind was very high and roared like
thunder, when our friend was writing the Communication in answer
to the Prayers for the Fast.
t See p. 5, in tie Prayev for ourSovereign, and in p. 25 o f tVis book.
XJoanna was o^dpred to seal up some newspapers, and all the papers
to be laid by. . .
I '
Digitized by
.And now mankind have own'd it true.
That there my judgments they did go;
Because their sins had me provok'd
Upon the head to bring the stroke.
And now the stroke, 1 bid them fear.
For I shall answer from their prayer:
Let no man mock me by their word,
T o own the judgments are from God,
And then to give their God the lie,
And say my judgments cannot be
Plac'd in the manner I did say:
For this was first thy Prophecy,
That if my shepherds they did mock;
Upon the head I’d brin^ the stroke.
Therefore their Prayers I'll own them true,
T is for their sins they ail shall know
That I do so afflict their king—
And now their answers let them bring,
And tell me bow it did appear
The judgments threatened heretofore,
What in thy writings I have seal’d ?
Let them seek out, to be reveal’**,
Or else the feet way tremble here,
Because the head tliepain doth bear.”
( ft3 )
Now, my dear Miss Townley, you see the wis*.
dom o f God joined with his power in fulfilling the
words that have been always said to me, that out o f
their own mouths h e would condemn m a n k i n d .
You know how I was told, the shadow o f judgments
began in our land when the King was first seized
with illness, in the very month that was mentioned
that dangers would begin; but as no man would own
the visitation o f the Lord in it, you know I was or­
dered to seal up the Newspapers, and say the mark
still stood in the dark for man. But now men have
brought that mark to light themselves, by their
owning the visitation of the L oud to our sove­
reign for the transgression o f his people, which was
in my Prophecies; for though I said, if the shep­
herds did not lay it to heart, the Lord would cut
the land ; but it was on the King the first stroke was
to com e; and now that they have owned it, the Lord
hath publicly explained it. So I do not fear who
seeth the letter; for if the Bishops have any love
f»r their King and Countiy, and they have owned
Digitized by Google
' the cause, now let them try to remove the effect.
Now what have you or I to fear, when we are guided
by a God so wondrous in wisdom, so wondrous in
working, so wondrous in council, power, and truth,
that would not permit me to say, publicly to the
world, the judgments were there begun, before the
wise and learned had publicly confessed it ? N ow
call to your remembrance the former words.— By
the 29th o f M ay men’s wisdom I’ll confound, and
in June I’ll prune the sons of men; and n ow in
their own wisdom they are cut down ; and where is
the man who can withstand the wisdom and power
o f a G od, whose footsteps are bid in the great deep
and whose paths are past man’s finding out ? A nd
though our weak sight cannot set how h e will
bring- all things to pass that is spoken in my
writings; yet, I see that G o d , whose wisdom never
has erred, is how shining brighter and brighter, to
the perfect day. So we shall see the Sa l v a t io n
o f tne L o r d , if we are perfect in obedience to his
Command. But 1 am clearly convinced of the
truth o f the words last year, “ that they all stood
but as water pots, before the time was come that
the Lord bringeth every truth to light; and we
have seen things but as trees walking; yet, I trust
soon we shall see all things as men.’ Since I had
finished writing my own judgment to you, from the
wisdom o f the Lord in this wondrous working, I
- was answered by the Sp ir it in the following man­
ner :
( 24 )
Now from thy words I’ll answer here—
A God in power shall now appear*
In every wisdom bright to shine*
And all shall know the Wisdom’s mine
For to conceal it all from man*
Before I prov’d it by their hand*
T o make them own my judgments true,
From their own sins—to say it was so:
And for their sins, the thing is done.-*
And now I’ll try the love of man:
Iffor their King, they’ll now appear,
For toremove my judgments there.
Digitized by Google
The hidden mysteries to find out—
from their own words they cannot doubt
But ’tis their sins have brought it on,
Then let the cause be remov'd by man,
If that their Sovereign they will'frce *
From all his suffering malady :f
For still m y wisdom is behind,
That thou another day wilt find ;
And my Salvation all shall see,
That do obey like her and thee.
SoTownley nothing has to fear,
If in her faith she’ll persevere*
Because more wisdom she will see,
That is conceal'd from her and thee.
Because men’s wisdom I'll confound,
And make them tremble at the sound
Before that 1 have ended here,
They’ll see my W isdom shine more cle^r
Than by thy wisdom thou hast seen
Is shining, like the fervent Sun,
That shall in splendour soon appear
With light too strong for thee to bear,
Without a cloud to stand between:
Jdy wondrous working will be seen. „
Just like the judgment thou dost draw,
And that my foes shall see and know.
And therefore Townley bold ipay stand
For to support thy written hand; 4
And I'll support her from all harm:
Let no one fear the rising storm
That men can bring upon their friends,
They’ll see m y ?ower is in the end.”
(Signed,) J o a n n a S o u t h c o t t .
Extract from the Sthpageof th.e Prayersfor the Fast.
“ Have mercy, we beseech thee, upon thy Servant
our Sovereign, whom thou hast smitten fo r the trans­
gressions o f his people. W e acknowledge that fo r our
manifold sins, we are worthy o f the severity o f
thyjudgments, yet we beseech thee, incline thine ear to
us, when, with penitent and contrite hearts, we turn
unto thee, and remove from our Sovereign and from
us this dreadful visitation.
( 25 )
D e a r M i s s T o w n l e y ,
I Shall send you the Communication that was
given me, in answer to the Prayer after the Prayer
Digitized by Google
for the whole state o f Christ's (Jlhurch, that was to
follow, wherein are these words :—
“ And to all those that may be ordained to sufferfor
thy sake, impart, 0 merciful Lord, such plentiful
succours o f thy Holy Spirit, pour into their souls such
( ontempt o f pain and death, kindle in their hearts such
love o f thee, and zeal fo r thy truth, fill them with
such animating hopes o f immortality, that after the ex­
ample o f the blessed saints and martyrs o f the primi­
tive ages, they may so stedfastly confess thee before men,
that having glorified thy name, by their sufferings here
Upon earth, they may obtain o f thee an everlasting
crown o f glory. And grant to us all, such a denial
o f ungodliness and worldly affections, that we may took
forw ard with hope to the consummation o f all things,
and to the glorious appearance of the great God and
our Saviour, Jesus Christ
Here is the Communication given in answer to i t :
“ I now tell thee, it is those who are workers with
ME to bring in my Kingdom o f Peace, that are now
suffering the reproach of man for my sake. W ho
else can they prove is suffering for my sake ? Let
them answer, who they are that are now suffering
for my sake, but only those who are now persecuted
for my sake ? But I know the thoughts of thy
heart: thou sayest, that men will say, those that
are called to the war are suffering for my sake.
But is thy judgment so weak, to believe it, that
they are suffering for my sake, when they are going
to a war to defend their own lives, and the lives of
others; and my Honour nor my Kingdom is not in
their thoughts ? Then how can they be suffering
for my sake, that have no love for me, nor any de­
sire for my Kingdom approaching ? Then how can
they compare such men with my saints and mar­
tyrs ? I tell thee, N o : they cannot compare the
soldiers with saints and martyrs; neither are they
looking for the glorious approaching o f the great
( *0 )
Digitized by Google
( 2 7 )
God and Saviour, Jesus Christ. These things are
not in their thoughts; but these things are in
the thoughts o f my people, that are now look’ng
for my Coming.— For on your heads their Prayers
shall rest; for I will give a plentiful succour of my
Holy Spirit, and pour it into your souls, that are
now suffering for my sake—
For on your beads their prayers shall dver rest*
And as they pray’d, 1 say you shall be blest $
Because iny Holy Spirit here is come,
And for to pour it I shall still go on ; '
For all their Prayers I’ll turn a different way:
And let the learned now point out to me
W ho they can prove do suffer for my sake,
But only those my cause do undertake*,
Just like the martyrs or the saints of old,
Like my disciples, 1 shall now unfold,
W ho suffer'd then my Gospel to bring in—
And now my Kingdom if you will it win,
I know, reproaclTyou'll suffer first for MB,
As Satan's fury in mankind will be:
And so mv friends must suffer lor my sake*
Because the rage of hell in man will break.
Therefore my friends will suffer now for me#
And there my Spirit they with power shall see;
And so their prayers shall rest upon your heads,
For 1 will pour my Spirit as they pray’d.
No other sufferers are thei*e in the land,
That for my sake they now can boldly stand.
T o say they are saints, and suffering now for me*
Bring forth the soldiers, let them answer thee:
If to the battle they go for my sake *
,
Or like the saints my Cause do (indertake;
Just like the martyrs that did die before.
I ask what oaths or curses, then were there,
When in the flames in love for me they stood?
Then how canst thou so vainly this allude
Unto the soldiers, that do so boldly swear ?
Hast thou not trembled oft their words to hear >
Then where the saints or martyrs thou canst see
In any soldiers suffering no v for me ?
And from thy heart l know thou answerest, none}
Then unto them that Prayer can never come*
For well I know they suffer not for M
E,
Nor yet my Kingdom do they wish to see.
Therefore’tis judgments that be in the war:
And with the martyrs wilt thou this compare ?
No, n o : I tell thee, they’re no martyrs there #
Nor for my sake their sufferings do appear.
P 2
Digitized by Google
And fiom their conscience they roust own it true;
For praise and victory is all that's in their view':
Ana in thy heart thou sav'st the words are true—
They are not soldiers suffering for my sake \
Nor will they answer that their life’s at stake „
For any love that they have got for me;
And with the shepherds this cannot agree,
With saints and martyrs ever to compare ;
Because the praise of men is all their care;
And nothing now they 're suffering here for me.
Because iny Honour I do plainly sec
Is not regarded by the shepherds there,
If theyjudge blasphemy in thee appear.
And not come hasty all for to prevent:
They must in silence say with one couscnt;
No, 'tis our Honour we come to maintain.
If thou from Exeter hear first from men,
Then for my sake must every man stand mute
While I with reason boldly will dispute
It's not my Honour you sought to maintain:
N o ! n o! I tell you 'tis the pride of man ;
Because your Honour you were afraid would fall—
And this shall be my answer to them all,
If they in London do not first appear ;
Because the Warning and the News came there*:
IJnto that City, 1 do tell thee, first,
And their Society must now' be cast;
If tliey can prove the Book in vice appear,
And do not hasty come, to see it clear;
For I permitted it there to come at first,
T o trv and prove them how they now will burst
So if they do not come for to condemn,
They must appear tojustify thy hand,
Or else no love they can have for. me.
T is but seditious books, I now tell thee,
That their Socfety do now suppress,
If they are silent now to answer this
Then where's the love that men express for me?
No, all my suffering friends I now do sec
Are only those that wish my Kingdom here.;
And they alone mci^'s ridicule do bear.
For this I know they suffer for my sake;
And here with power shall my Spirit break:
And so their Prayers shall rest upon vour heads;
For here I’ll prove my Spirit strong doth lead,
T o shew my Coming unto all is near;
For so my suffering friends do now appear
T o suffer 6hame and all reproach for me:
No other sufferers in this land I see,
That now can prove they suffer for my sake;
( 28 )
* See the advertisement in the papers, addressed to the Socfety for
the Suppression of Vice.
X
Digitized by Google
Atod here my Spirit shall with power break.
For with my suffering triends i’ll now go on,
Until their sufferings all for me are gone;
And then to joy their sufferings 1will turn.
And those that cause their sufferings then shall mourn
For in the end my suffering friends they’ll see
T o come in triumph every one with me#
Enthron’d in glory, or, I say, below."
My suffering friends for me 1 then shall shew
That they in me shall find their full reward ;
For all their love I faithfully regard. ,
So now; my suffering friends, let all appear*
And speak from conscience if they suffer here ,
For any love that they have got for me,
Only my friends that noware join’d with thee;
And then to man 1
*
1
1answer here again ;
But well I know it cannot be prov’d by men.
Therefore the Prayer they then made for the Fast#
1 say, upon your heads that Prayer shall burst.
(Signed,) J o a n n a S o u t h c o t t .
ON EVE'S BEING THE SISTER, BRIDE, AND MOTHEB,
IN THE CREATION.
D e a r M is s T o w n l e y , May 2 1 , 1 8 0 4 .
I had a wonderful communication given me this
morning that astonished m e,.when I came up to my
writing, and prayed for directions. It is thus :
“ 1 have brought thee hither with these tw o :
[Miss Townley and herM aid,] who I call my Mother
and my Sister ; for I said they that did my will, the
same were, my mother and my sister; and by them
my will is done. Now I shall. give direc­
tions to thee, and tell thee what is meant by my
mother and my sister. . As a mother wishes to sup­
port the honour of her son, and the happiness o f a
son, so does she wish to spend her time, and money
like a mother, for my honour and glory, and for
the good o f my brethren ; and as a sister that loveth
her brother joins with her mother, just so is her
servant now joined with her mistress; here is the
shadow of my Bible fulfilled ; as it is with the mis­
tress, so with the maid ; as it is with the borrower,
so with the lender. Let my brethren weigh this deep,
and know, I called these two women my mother
( 20 )
Digitized by G o o g l e
and my sister, and as my brides joined with thee i
fo r so the woman was in the creation, as being taken
from the man, she was his sister ; but as.bearing him
children, she was a wife, and a mother ; thus was
the woman made at first, and this must be the state
o f the woman at last, how I am come to free the fall
o f women. Here I have placed you three, as true
helpmates for man; and as such let men receive you,
if they wish to be made alive in m b, as they died in
Adam. For here all shall find is a shadow o f my
Gospel began in you three ; and by the hands of
you three my wondrous working shall go on, till
your light shall break forth as the morning, and the
truth be made as clear as the noon day's sun, that
the woman is the true and perfect helpmate for man;
for by the woman I will,now complete his happiness,
but no other way will I ever accomplish it.
( 30 )
So from you three mankind shall see,
Your brother I’ll appear $
The second Adam is in me,
Then see the Bridegroom here,
T o take the woman as my friend,
My mother for to be:—
I tell you man knows not the end.
My sister they must see >
My brides appear I tell you here,
For I am the woman s friend.
It is to make my Gospel clear
That 1 these things ordain'd;
T o have these three alike to be,
And see my Gospel clear.
vThen, my disciples, now judge ye,
My brethren all appear ;
And now see plain, ye sons o f men,
How I’ve brought round this last \
Before the trial doth come on
1 tell you so’t must burst:
For to shew clear all are here,
And here I’ve place d these three,
My Lew and Gospel for to clear:
Tnep let my brethren see,
My ^rill by them must now be done,
If brethren they will be.
Then I'll appear, I tell them here,
Their brother and their friend
Their conquering Saviour Til appear
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
And save them in the end;
From Adam's fall, 1 tell them all.
1 shall them all redeem ;
And let my coat be known to all,
It was without a seam.
Then now see clear, 1 must appear.
All interwoven through; t
No seam o f sorrow shall be here,
W hen l ’ve my work gone through
So brethren all I now do call
You, by the woman's hand,
And if my friends you’ll now appear.
Then by these women stand,
la perfect love let none remove
Your strong affections here !
And place no daggers in the breast
O f those to me are dear;
For if you do, I tpll you true,
You'll place them in your own;
My Gospel is before your view,
And let my words be known ;
My will is done, I tell you plain,
JJy these three women here:
And 1their cause will now maintain.
And let the land take care.—
For now l say to thee this day,
Their ruin snail come on,
If men mv words now disobey ;
J this shall answer man.
I’ve made all clear, that 1amhere
In Spirit come again :
The mystery deep no man can clear
T o prove from Hell it came ;
No, 'tis from me, mankind shall see.
For so I shall appear,
T o prove my Spirit visits thee,
Ana other friends are here,
Whose hearts within to me are known
Like mothers to appear,
And so a sister’s love is shewn—
And let the Land take care
They do not mock, for now the stroke
• Shall go throughout the Land;
1 tell thee, like thy Brother’s Son,
Convulsions now shall com e;
If men appear as heretofore
And now despise the call,
1 tell thee, like thy Brother s Spn.
I’ll bring the stroke on all;
Year after year it shall appear,
Convulsions men will see,
The agonies the child did bear
In England now shall be, .
If they go on, I tell thee plain.
My W arning to despise,
( 81 )
Digitized by Google
I shall not trifle now with men
I f they do act unwise,
T o slight my Love, as now I’ll prov^
I’m come to set them free,
And all their Sorrows to remove,
If now they’ll turn to me.
If they will not, 11
1 tell their lot^
Their ruin shall abound;
And let the child not be forgot—
* '
In May they heard the sound *
,
So May is come, I say, for man,
And may they all relent! !
Or they will see such destiny
W ill make them all repent.
If they can bear my threatenings her©
And not the words regard,
But all my Love they disapprove
And not my Love reward,
T o wish for me— they all shall see
My anger for to burn—
Ingratitude, they all shall see,
Shall find the same return : -
But those that turn and now begin
In Love to wish me near,
They'll find a brother and a friend?
A Saviour to appear—
T o save them all from Adam’s fall
And set the prisoners free,
That now are bound in Satan’s chains.
If men will turp to me ; ‘
Then I to them will surely turn
And strong Jhcir Frienc) appear,
For my delight shall be with men,
Tf their delight be here
T o have me come, and dwell with then>|
My Coming they shall sqe,
How I from Sorrows shall redeem
And from all sufferings free. ,
So this to Sharp I bid thee send j .
And let them weigh all deep,
And then I’ll stand their every friend,
If now my word they keep;
And warn them all, that great’s the call?
And great ’tis now for man;
Because my Judgments strong will fall
Jf men now mock thy hand:
For I’ll appear in words more clear,
Your Ration blind must be,
If altogether men compare
And judge it not from me:
And if they’re blind, the ditch they’ll find
It hastening on for all: ’
But if they see the mystery
And come to judge the call, -
( 32 )
Digitized by Google
Then m appear to make it
From Heaven is every sound;
But if men say* they will not hear#
In grief they shall be found;
And I’ll not hear Itell thfem there
I f they’ll not now hear me ;
When Sorrows in your Land abound
1 will not set them free/*
(Signed,) Joanna Southcott.
D ear M iss T ow nlet, Jhne2, 1804.
“ On the receipt o f your letter that you sent to
hie, from Mr. Sharp, o f a Bishop’s returning h^»
two engravings o f our Saviour and the Virgin Mary,
with these words, “ The Bishop o f ----------- , is
obliged to Mr. Sharp for the offer o f his Prints, but
desires to be excused from accepting them: They
are fine engravings, and he .wishes M r. Sharp shewed
as much judgment in his religious opinion as skill in
his profession. ----------- House, 'May 30th, 1804*”
This contempt o f the Bishop filled my soul with
contempt* Ohj what a pattern do the ministers o f
God’s word set before mankind, to fill their heart9
with scorn and contem pt! If Mr. Sharp, being an ar­
tist, is a judge o f his profession, I confess the Bishop
has given him more credit for his profession than I
Can give the bishop for his profession as a minister
of God’s word ; as I Cannot give that honour to the
bishop. For we must give honour where honour is
due. But what honour can there be due to the bi­
shop from me, when I consider the thousands a
year they are paid to be faithful Shepherds of the
Lord, to take care of his Flock ? And Christ died to
set them an example, to follow his footsteps. Now
if Christ so loved the world, as to die for man ; and
became poor, that we, through his poverty, might
be made rich; ought not the bishops, that are made
rich by the Gospel, to take care of Christ’s flock
that is committed to their care ? Now I ask the
Bishop, who came to Christ that he refused to
hear, or whom he sent empty away ? W hat did
our Saviour say unto Peter ? “ Simon, son o f Jo*
B
( 33 )
Digitized by Google
( 3* L
nah, lovest thou me ?” Peter said, “ Yea, Lord,
thou knowest all things, thou knowest that I love
thee.” “ Then feed my sheep, feed my lambs,’*
were Chri-t’s commands. And now I shall come to the
Communion Service, for the preparation o f the
Lord’s Supper : f‘ Let your light so shine before
men, that they may see your good works and glorify
your Father, which is in Heaven. Not every one
that saith unto M e , Lord, Lord, shall enter into the
.Kingdom o f Heaven, but he that doth the will of. m y
Fattier, which is in Heaven. Therefore, if there be
any o f you, who, by this means, cannot quiet his
own conscience herein, but reqoireth further com*
fort or council, let him come to me, or- some other
discreet and learned minister of God’s word, and
open his grief, that by the ministry of G od’s holy
W ord, he may receive the benefit o f absolution,
together with ghostly council and advice to the qui­
eting of his conscience, and avoiding o f all scruples
and doubtfulness.” Now here, as faithful Shepherds,
they are in duty bound to give clear and right ju d g ­
ment ; not to judge o f a cause unheard ; but to be
clear in judging, that they may be able to give
ghostly council and advice, to the quieting of the
consciences o f those that have scruples or doubts.
Now this is the strict command to the clergy, if
they profess themselves ministers o f God’s word.
And then where was a cause o f more importance to
all people than mine is, to the quieting o f the con­
science of those that are called with me ? W hen I
then' told you, my dear Miss Townley, it is for
the quieting o f our conscience, that you did the
will of the Lord to write unto him ; then how much
is he bound in duty to give ghostly advice to the
quieting o f our conscience ? But iastead o f this,
he refused to hear, and treated the application with
contem pt: when not only our souls, but the souls
o f thousands must be in danger, if it were possible
for a, wrong spirit to lead me astray, But on the
contrary, if it be of God, as I am firmly persuaded
Digitized by Google
aod assured, this wondrous visitation never came
to me from any other spirit but the Spirit of the
LIVING L oud, and the whole nation stands in danger
o f utter ruin for their neglect. Strongly are the
words said to me, if the Lord calleth and' no man
answer, they shall call, and he will not answer,
but laugh at their calamity, and mock when their
fear cometh. And now I am full o f the fury of the
Lord, whose anger is kindled against his Shepherds;
for deeply are the words said to me, it was the
Lord that worked in Mr. Sharp's heart, to send the
prints of our Saviour, to the Bishop, at the time
the Lord had ordered his words to.be sent to him by
you, and he. has as much refused to obey the com­
mand o f the Lord, as he refused to receive the pic­
tures of pur Savipur. Now the contempt that the
ministers of God’s word, when they first treated
m e in the like manner, sunk my spirits, when I
sought them in the bitterness o f my soul, and they
would not hear. This sunk my squl in secret sQrrow,
and in private prayer and tears I poured out my
complaints and grief unto the Lord ; for as man re­
fused to hear me I trusted wholly in the Lord, and
knowing I was so much their inferior in rank and
fortune, I bowed in submission with a broken heart
to their silent contempt; but now I find that you
are a lady o f family and fortune, not inferior to
them, and Mr- Sharp, an artist o f no low profes­
sion and well known in the world, to be treated
with this contempt hath raised my spirits with in­
dignation ; so I shall thank you, or Mr. Sharp, to
write tu the bishop, in my name, or your own,
what is the duty o f a bishop, if he judge the call­
ing not o f God. T o try and prove it by his argu­
ments, and shewing his strong reasons, is the com­
mand o f the Lord unto man. I must conclude with
saying, I*wish the bishop was as good a judgeot nis
duty, as a bishop, as Mr. Sharp is o f his engraving,
as an artist; but he cometh far short o f Mr. Sharp,
for though he gave M r, Sharp credit as an artist,
k 2
( 35 )
Digitized by Google
I cannot give the bishop cred it as a bishop; un­
less, like Peter, he is convinced o f his errors and
goeth out and weep bitterly. This I have written
to you for your perusal, in the height o f anger, as
you and M r. Sharp are treated with contempt on
my account, as well as the L ord, for doing the
thing that he had commanded you. Now, my dear
Miss Townley, you see how my passions were
worked, after hearing in what humble polite man­
ner Mr. Sharp addressed the bishop, and offered to
wait upon liis lordship, and give him every in­
formation ; for the glory o f God and the good o f
mankind were all the ends he could have in view,
but the glory o f God and the good o f man­
kind were treated with scorn and contempt. But
now judge my surprise after I had written in
the height of my anger, as a private letter, to you,
I was answered in the following manner : “ The pre­
paration o f thy heart in thy letter to Townley, came
from m e , for thou, art full of the fury o f the Lord,
and all my fury this land shall find.— The enemy
shall break in Upon them and destroy them, if my
Spirit, and my faithful servants are treated with this
contem pt; therefore my strict command is to thee,
to have thy letter, thou hast written to Townley, in
the height o f thy anger, put into print; for it was I,
the Lord, that worked that anger in thee ; and they
shall see much greater in m e . If they do not re­
pent, I will strengthen the enemy, to be strong
against them and they shall not be able to get out
o f his power, for they are doing despite to m y
Spirit and to my servants; and I will reward them
according to their works, unless they return with
weeping, as Peter did. Then will I shew mercy
unto them, and not destroy them ; for the bat­
tle is mine, to give the victory which way I
will. So let the letter be printed, and my an­
swer to it, for it is fatal for thee, pf Townley*
or Sharp, if out o f fear o f offending, the bishop,
my command is not obeyed; for all men shall
( 36 )
Digitized by Google
know thy writings come from the l i v i n g Lord,
who feareth no man’s person, and for my Honour
and great Name, I cannot save this land from ruin,
but for the sake of the shepherds’ searching into all
thy writings, to know, and to prove from whence
they came ; for the word is gone out o f my mouth,
and shall not return, till unto me every knee do how,
and every tongue do swear.” Here you see I
am caught in a net, by my own feet, thinking to
write you a private letter, I am ordered to make it
public; to kindle the wrath o f mankind against
me; but what is the wrath o f man, to the wrath o f
the Lord ? Man can but kill the body, but the Lord
can cast soul and body into hell. It is better fot me
tddie, than the whole nation to perish, by my diso­
beying the command o f the Lord ; so I must stand
the trial o f their fu ry; as in man I could never find
pity. Here 1 was ordered to add a parable that was
m my thoughts, o f a man at Topsham in Devonshire:
hewas a man that my father told me of, that had for ,
a long time been stealing o f salt, from a salt trader ;
at last the ownet o f the salt caught him, stealing o f
his salt; he had filled up near a hundred weight to
carry away; when the owner came, who told
him if he would pay him 30l. for all the salt he had
stolen from him, as he had lost it for a long time, he
would forgive him. The thief paid him the 30l. and
went and indicted the master, for concealing a thief,
and not indicting him ; and the master told my fa­
ther, it cost him five hundred pounds, and brought
him to beggary, poverty, and want; that he had
made it up with the man, thinking to save the ex-
pences o f a prosecution : so to encourage men in
vice doth but harden their hearts fhe more. This
thing o f the man I was ordered to pen, and now 1
shall give the answer o f the Spirit, that was given
to me in answer to this parable o f the man.
Now thy fable thou hascended.
For to answer I’ll appear.:
Like the thief 1 now intend it
My indictment shall be here.
( 37 )
Digitized by Google
( as )
put now within thou dost begin,
Thy. pondering heart I know
Satan may with the thief compare.
But wifi the Lord do so ?
fo r to compare my honour here,
Unto a thief that's oast:
Jhe Brazen Serpent this will clearj
For so 1 now shall burst
On every man, thafsln your land,
In power to appear, *
If they do judge tny written hand
In blasphemy is here.
If they go on to act like him,
And say they’ll it forgive;
For the expences of the law,
The man thought he should save.
T o harden sin he did begin,
Until it did abound,
And then upon his head it came—
Then tremble at the sound ;
For to your Land it so will come,
For sin you're hardening here.
If Satan now do guide her hand,
In her it must appear;
I f it be not, I'll tell your lot,
You harden it in your Land.
In blasphemy 1 now tell thee,
Your nation it doth stand;
Men do blaspheme my every Name,
That speak against my word.
The shepherds now must own with shame
They do blaspheme-the Lord j
If *tis from me thy writings be,
Then here they do blaspheme.
And won’t my shepherds now agree
T o know from whence it caiqe i
Then Til go on, 1 tell thee plain,
With my indictment here
Until I’ve brought the heavy load,
Their ruin shall appea^;
As on the man the load did come,
His ruin for to be ; '
Because the end o f him was known,
Hp was in poverty
Brought by the law, thou well dost know
His folly brought him poor ;
Because the thief, he well might know,
Would quickly steal for more;
When he paid down the thirty pounds
H? harden'd was in’sia.
And so the man his sorrows found,
Because he’d harden’d him
For to eo on in every sin.
And he the stroke did feeL
And perfect so is now your Land,
Your wounds I'll never heal
Digitized by Google
While you go on to harden fill#
And rob Me of my fame.
One way or other this is done,
For blasphemy must com e;
They all must know the truth is so.
If thou dost here blaspheme.
And like the man the shepherds are,
T o let thee steal my Name;
Because like he the shepherds be,
That trouble think to save;
And with the man they do agree,
The money’s all they crave;
This is the likeness of your land,
And so they do agree;
And if this way they now go on,
They’ll find his poverty
Will come on all, both great and smalj^
For who shall you redress ?
As you're hardening sin in all,
I’ll boldly answer this i
If now from me thy writings be,
As I affirm them here,
Your land is full of blasphemy,
As men so boldly swear;
Against my name they do blaspheme,
And rob me day by day.
And so you let them to goon—
Give me the gold, you say:
Sin may abound in every sound,
For ought that you do care.
JpsHike the man you all are found,
And so his end you’ll share,
If you go on to act like him,
Thinking to save the first,
I plainly tell you in the end, .
Like nim your end shall burst;
For povertyand misery
Snail fast upon you come.
My land is full of blasphemy,
Then tremble now vain men ;
For I'll make clear, I tell you here#
That I*the Lord do warn ;
But you my Spirit cannot bear,
And back you all do turn
My offers all; for now 1 call,
And do you all invite
Tor to receive my offer’d love,
But it you all do slight
For like the Jews you hear the news,
And crown my head the same;
For back the thorns you now do turlv
Then tremble at my Name.
If I turn back the coming stroke,
As then the Jews did see;
Your names like them must be forgote
You’ll not accept o f me,
( «9 )
Digitized by Google
( 4a )
*tV
>tiave come your Pritoce and K in£
Your Father and your Friend \
Your conquering Saviour to appear#
Your Brother in the end#
And your Redeemer to appear:
But I'll redeem my Friends
That now do bear for me the spear*
As I bore it at first j
And then my crown with me they'll share#
For so it now shall burst"
Adieu ! my dear Miss Townley, I have only time
to add my love, and gdod wishes, to yourself and all
friends, and believe me,
sincerely yours,
(Signed,) JoANitA South cott.
D e a r M i s s T o w n l e y , June 3d , 1 8 0 4 .
,W hat a letter have you sent to me from a Minis­
ter, that hath done violence to his own understand­
ing ! first to say, there was no such thing as prophe­
cies : and then to conclude his letter by saying, he
himself is a prophet. Here I shall place his words
that were in his letter, that you sent me. “ The
Christian however, my dear madam, is so strongly
cautioned by his Divine Master against being de­
ceived by false prophets, and false doctrines, that
if he does surrender his understanding to enthusiasm,
and make shipwreck o f a sound faith, while in pur­
suit o f fables, and lying wonders, he exposes him­
self, more or less, to the aweful fate o f the false pro­
phet. Rev. 20 chap. 10 verse,— W oe unto them that
say, the Lord saith, when the Lord hath not spoken ;
who pretend to spiritual gifts, which are neither
granted, nor indeed necessary in this Era o f the
Church, &c. &c. I am an ambassador, an unwor­
thy one, 1 confess, from Jesus Christ, if you disre­
gard my warning voice ; behold I artt charged by
him to prophesy unto you, that he will laugh at
ydur calamity, and mock when your fear com eth."
In the Postscript he recommends to your perusal, the
22 chap, of the 1st book o f Kings. Now, my dear
Miss Townley, out o f his own iiiouth will I con­
demn him, as one o f the false Prophets, he point-
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
ed.out to you that Ahabjwas seduced by. Can a
man presunipruously say, he prophesieth in the'name
pf Christ, and boldly tell you, there is no necessity
for spiritual gifts ? Then he must be the prophet he
mentions, to say the Lord saith, when the Lord
hath not spoken. Then how can he be an am­
bassador frpm Christ, and a prophet in his name,
without lie be visited by his Spirit ? Deeply are the
words said to me, that the anger of the Lord, that,
was kindled in me so greatly yesterday, the 2d. o f
June, was as much in consequence o f his letter, that
the Lord knew was coming, as it was for the bi­
shop’s, refusing to search into every truth ; therefore
the Lord worked in my heart, to place the Scrip­
tures in that manner, and send them to you ; and
fave that strict charge, they should .go in print.
'or the Lord knew what letters were coming from a
man who saith Lqrd, Lord, and thinks because he
is a minister he is an ambassador from Christ, and
hath authority to prophesy in his name, with con­
fidence and assurance: and this is the reason why
the Lord has so threatened the clergy, for setting
up their own wisdom, in opposition to the wisdom
of God. But what did the Lord say, by the mouth
of his prophets ? Prophesy thou against these pro­
phets, that prophesy out o f their own hearts, and
lave seen nothing; and say the Lord saith, when
i! have not spoken. For I neither commanded him,
. neither did I send him, is the word o f the Lord,
now spoken to me. Therefore the threatenings o f
the Lord are so severe to the bishops, if they do not
call the whole together, and let the cause be fairly
tried who is the true prophet, he that denieth spiri­
tual gifts, and says there is no necessity for them,
but yet affirmeth in Christ’s name he is a prophet
unto you, and threatens judgments if you do not
obey his voice. On the other hand, I am writing
to you from the Spirit, that fatal judgments will fall
upon you, if you do not obey the voice o f the Lord
1 41 )
Digitized by Google
And follow after spiritual gifts, that you may k n ow
the Lord, if you follow on to know him. N o w
which are you to obey, God or man, judge ye ? It i$
your cause they must take in haud, which o f th e
two you are to obey ; and whether all the ministers
are prophets, the bishops must decide: or you w ill
all find'an Ahab’s reign shall come. So let the cause
be fairly tried, who is the Micaiah the true prophet,
of who are the false prophets ? Fey: he has pointed
to the very chapter that I have threatened shall bring
destruction on your land, if they are seduced by false'
prophets. And now he hath told Townley, the m i­
nisters afe the prophets, without spiritual gifts; and
I have told them thou art the prophet with spiri­
tual gifts. Then let the truth be tried; and this chap­
ter must be mentioned : .Ahab was seduced by false
prophets, and was slain. And now he saith the m i­
nisters are the ambassadors of Christ, and they are the
prophets of the Lord. Then now judge for yourselves,
ye men of Israel; Ahab’s false prophets w^re many,
but the true prophet Micaiah was but one ; so the
false prophets must be the clergy, as he has made
the clergy the prophet^, and they are many ; but I
am on e'; and his letter has brought it to the very
purport of my writings, and out of his own mouth he
has cast the clergy for false prophets, by the chap­
ter he ^llyided to, and made good my last.books;
for in them they are cast as false prophets ; and it
yras said the shame of their nakedness would appear.
So here you see the rope of sand, • • t
That if as prophets they may stand:
Then sureyourLand must qll be cas{.
As inthe chapter it is ptae'd.”
Here I shall end for thp present, as I ffearthis letter
yrill be too late for the post, and I am ordered it must
go to day, as the letter I wrote to you yesterday,
and the ' letter. I have sent you to day’, must go in
print together; so, my dear Miss Townley, I must bid
adieu. You will hear from me again to-morrow with
« full explanation o f the whole.
(Signed,) J o a n n a S o u t h c o t t .
( 42 )
Digitized by Google
( 4S j
‘5 b a b M iss T o w n l e y , Slay the'ig th , 1804*
In what wondrous manner is the Lord now work­
ing, to bring every shadow to the substance 1 and
yet it is in so easy a manner as though all catne. by
chance. But I remember how deeply it was said to
me years agone, that all these times, seasons, and
chances, were ordered and ordained by the Lord.
From the newspaper that you sent me, of ah.Adver­
tisement being put in the paper by my friend, who. ,
desires the religious Society for the Suppression o f
Vice to examine my books and writings, and to point
out every false doctrine they contain; or, if on the
contrary they should be found true explanations o f
the Bible,-the society must feel it a duty to make
every laudable effort to spread the knowledge o f her
books in the world. When I had read the adver­
tisement, I was ordered to look the paper ovfer, and
found a trial in the court of King’s Bench, M ay
24th, the King v. William Cobbett. It was an In­
formation filed, ex officio, by the attorney general
against Mr. Cobbett, for an alledged libel on Lord
Hardwicke, the lord lieutenant of Ireland; Lord Red"
esdale, lord high chancellor of Ireland ; M r. Justice
Osborne, one o f the puisne judges o f the court, o f
King’s Bench in Ireland; and Alexander Marsden
Esq. undersecretary in the civil department in Ire­
land.— I was ordered to take out this part o f the
trial:
“ I beg leave to say; geiitlemeri o f the jury, that
the question for you to try, is the quo ammo wi;h
Which this writing has been published; It compli­
ments the private virtufcs o f Ix)rd Hardwicke, but it
points out nis defects as a political character. It in­
culcates the most loyal principles, and ekeefates re­
bellion throughout. His object is clearly to excite
the vigilance o f the well affected of both countries,
in order to secure them from the dreadful conse­
quences o f sudden insurrections, %nd t^e calamities
Digitized by L i O O Q l e
occasioned by it, such as unfortunately took place
in Ireland, in the month of July last.”
After I had copied these words, I was ordered to
mark the letter sent me, the same day, of the eight
men that are printing a Book against my Writings*
— Now I shall give the Communication that was
given to me, in answer to the above—
“ In all thy Writings I have gone from Types
and Shadows ; and this year I have told thee that
the Types and Shadows shall stand together. Now
in the newspaper, that thy friend points out th /
Writings and Books to be examined by the Society,
the libel against Hardwicke stands. Now I tell thee,
no men, by all the learning they can invent, can
bring thine as a libel against man; because thou
hast done all in my Name, the Lord of Lords and
King of Kings, who feareth no man’s person; and
thou hast done all by my command; so if they in­
dict thee, it must be for a libel against the Lord,
whose private goodness to mankind thou hast point­
ed' out through all thy writings ; but the public
threatenings are pointed out to man the same. So
here is the libel that men must try, not as against
' man, but as against m e , whose
» Private Virtues' are all unknown to man,
That's in thy writings and shall ever stand;
And that my private Friends they all shall see
My private virtues are made known to tliee;
And so to man they're publish’d all abroad,
T o have my private Love for man made known;
But for the public it may now appeac
That hard the threatenings to tins nation here,
If they in silence now these words do hear,
And do not seek the truth in all to clear;
* Because a week they'll surely find to come,
That I’m the Lord and will them all condemn,
If they bring Trials for men's honourhere,
* And will not seek my honour for to clear:
T o prove the calling if it be of God,
I tell them plain that hard they’ll feel my r6d.
Because an awful week I’ll bring to man—
a mblic threatenings are throughout your I,and;
if my honour you’ll not here maintain,
* t T o act for me as you do act for men,
T o bring the Trial, you say the Truth you It see,
For with this libel it doth ail agree.
\ 44 )
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
( « )
My private footstep and my Lore for man
Are surely published by her written hand;
But for my public theatenmgs tbat are here
You judg'd them hard, but they shall be severe
If now I see you shew more love to man.
T o clear his honour, than for mine you'll comb
The Truth to try—If you'll not seek to know,
I tell you plain, that }iard my hand shall go;
For I'm the Lord, that she has written here.
My private Love to man she hath made clear;
But public threatening® and my wrath severe,
I tell you now, shall come upon the Land,
If not for me you will the Tnai stand,
T o know if she has forg'd my Name or no*—
And to.the press these threatening* now must got
Because this shadow- here 1 did ordain:
And see the Bill is put m by my friena,
T o have the truth in all be fairly tried.
And now they’ll surely find, i f Fm denied,
That hard my Judgments now shall be for maty
If for my honour they refuse to stand
The Truth in every thing to prove and try.
Since now- for man they easy did comply.
T o bring the Trial hasty on for mah *
,*
And for my honour now-1 bid themstand,
For I am the Lord* that every soul shall set#
That now commands this Bin put in to be ;
And if to prove it you do not regard,
I tell you plain, my hand you’ll find It hard;
For there are Libels printing now I see,
Against my honour, and they cast shall be,
Because they’re printing now against my Name*
Against thy writings men are going on.
Then sureT say the}*’re printing against me,
And that with jury all your Land shall see,
If men don’t hasty come for to prevent,
And say, we'll try the cause wjtn one consent;
T o know from whence the Bill doth now appeal
Against my honour men are printing here.
They must confess it is in man or tnee;
For ff thy writings do not come from me,
Then thou art wrongly printing in my Name ; r
And then mankind I’ll surely put to shame,
If they in love for me do not appear,
T o prove from whence it came, and see aH clear;
Whether or no they do come from the Lord
They all mustjudge it by the written word, ^
Which from the world is now seal'd up from man.
For there in secret I have laid my plan,
The faith and wisdom first in men to try,
And then behind they’ll find my wisdom lie*
The truth o f all 1 then shall surely clear,
And they shall find the Lord o f I<ords is here.
That men in libels printing now they be
Against my honour 1 do plainly see;
And so I say they surely shall be cast—
^
Digitized by L
jO
O
Qle
For thaf&the way my Jury now shall bunt*
1 sav, these ignorant men for to condemn.
And now to try the Cause I'm boldly come >
So with their libels let them to appear
Before my Jury, and I'll cast them there ;
Because their words they never can defend a
T o write against the Lord will man pretend*
When 1 do tell them, I am Lord of all
That in thy writings do this Nation call ?
And Lord of Lords I'll surely prove to be;
And hard is rav hand, that every soul shall «#4
I f men don'tfind a weekfor to appear
T o bring the Trial, and to see all dear.
So here the words are parted into threes
And as they are parted so 'twill surely be*
I f men don't hasty bring thy Trial on,
T o know from whence the libel now doth come
For every soul that now have eyes to see
They sure must know *ds in the Men or thee ;
And now 1 tell them it is in the Men,
Apd that they'll find, Til prove it in the end.'*
( «6 )
These last words were given to' me, in answei td
the letter you sent me, the same day with the news,
papers, of the men at Stourbridge, that are now
printing a book against my writings, which is 90
clearly explained, if my writings are o f God, they
are printing against the L ord; but if my writings
are not of God, men shew no love to his honour td
let me go on in his Name, to Say the Lord saith, if
they can prove the Lord hath not spoken by m e;
and that is as equally impossible for man to do*
without searching into every truth, and trying them
the way the Lord hath commanded them to be tried,
as it is for a man that is stark blind to judge o f co­
lours. Neither can any man judge colours ih the
dark, yet in the dark they pretend to judge them,
but are afraid to come to the light, fearing their
deeds should be reproved; This Communication I
am ordered to send to you to have it put in print
with all speed. I am ready and willing to stand
every trial to prevent the Judgments that threaten
us, and that hang over our heads.— I shall give you
part o f the letter I received from my friend: “ There
is a book now in the press> printing, and whore seve•
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
ral heads have been engaged in it, that are attaching •
yourself, your writings, andyour abettors''— In an­
swer to myself, no man can injure my character
without he doth it by falsehood and lies: for my
character will bear tHe strictest scrutiny as to any
thing the world can lay to my charge; but as to my
writings, and from what Spirit they come, I am ready
to stand thp trial. If they can be proved from any
Spirit, but the Spirit o f the living Lord, I will freely
give them up, and burn the whole. But I cannot
suffer my judgment to be so easily imposed upon as
to believe such wondrous wisdom, council, and
truth, can dome from any Spirit but from the G od
of Wisdom and of Truth, before it is tried by the
touchstone o f truth, and then the Lord will make the
truth clear xbefore them. Then how can men pre­
tend to judge o f things they know nothing about ?
Fornone but them that have searched intomy writings
can be judges of the truth they contain; and as to
the manner o f the writings that men condemn, it is
but the fulfilling the Scriptures; for it is written,
The wisdom o f God is foolishness to men— and the
wisdom o f man is foolishness with G o d ; and this
truth is plain and easy toJ?C understood, as men
so foolishly pretend to explain the hidden mysteries
of the Bible by their own wisdom ; and they have,
explained it so many ways mat the Bible can have
no meaning or explanation at all by the wisdom of
men: foe the wise men, the learned, and the good
men, halve drawn so many judgments different from
each other, that they have made the Bible like a
rope o f sand, that cannot join together; and so they
make their own wisdom, that will, soon break in
sunder. But the foolishness of God is wiser than all
the wisdom o f men, like a threefold cord, that can­
not be broken. As soon as I had written these
words, from my own observation, I was answered in
|
the following lines:
( *7 )
Digitized by Google
( « )
¥
ow from A y wisdom, I will answer man':
hou’st plainly seen their wisdom like the sand^
That 'tis impossible tor man to join ;
But now mv foolishness 111 make it hang
Just like a threefold cord, that is not brdcq
By strength of man, unless you do it cut$
And now 1 tell tbee, if men cut it here,
Just like the rope o f sand shall all appear,
I say in pieces—so 111break your Land:
Ana here I'll end it by the rope of sandj
Unless they’ll come and join it with my word,
And then I’ll join them like a threefold cord $
Because my •weakness every soul shall see,
Is stronger ^han the strength of man can be \
And so my folly in tliy writings here
Is conceal’d in wiwkgn, that no man can clear.
T o prove therp weak or foolish in the end.
But for to try men’s wisdom, 1 intend
T o bring it round in this weak foolish hand*
T o prove that men were like thy rope of sand,
That bv their wisdom they could neverjoin *
,
But like a threefold cord they'll now find mine
T o break in pieces all their ropes of sand,
fo r so they'll find my threefold cord shall stand.’*
print that a Book is publishing against my Writings;
find it js said to nip, the Book is full o f blasphemy,
which will be proved hereafter. But I do not be­
lieve the men designed to print blasphemy against
the Lord ; but they cannot write against his words,
ways, or wisdom, witKout it. This letter you are
S
red to send hastily to the printer. And here the
k ends.— So now, my dear Miss Townley, I
_ e your great fatigue for the present is over. I
must conclude with my earnest prayers that the
Lord will add a double blessing upon you. Please
$o remember me to all friends. Adieu,
Here I am ordered to end my B ook ; and put in
And believe me, your’s sincerely,
(Signed,) J o a n n a S o u t h c o t t .
JuntO^f 1304,
Printed by S. Rousskw,
W ood Street, Spa Fields.
Digitized by Google
