{"name":"Copies And Parts Of Copies Of Letters And Communications","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1804__southcott___copies_and_parts_of_copies_of_letters_and_communications.pdf","mytitle":"Copies And Parts Of Copies Of Letters And Communications","mylang":"de"}
COPIES AND PARTS OF COPIES,
Letters and communications,
WRITTEN PROM JOANNA SOUTHCOTT,
And transm itted Ry miss to w n le ^
TO MR. W. SHARP, IN LONDON.
S eparable of the little flock of sheep*
T h e Fable that was in my heart, called tb my
temembtance, was of a man that was tried in Exeter
Cattle, for ftealing of fheep. He pleaded he did
iietfieal tbeip ; for he was going to a fair, and the
flock of sheep jumped over the hedge and ran before
his horse.. He rode as fast as his horse could run,
tp get before' them ; but ttill the sheep kept before,
the horse. •-He- turned his horse many ways to try
to shun them? but the sheep would immediately
tom and get before him. He then turned his horse*
and-thought: tp'go home; but the sheep turned in
an instant* and came, before hint again. After his^
turning ftiany times,'trying every way in his power
to get before the sheep, and finding it impossible,
he thought he might as well go with them to the
fair, as be found driving them home to his own
house; and in driving them to the fair he was taken.
And in this, manner he pleaded in the Castle, to
ejear himself; and the judge said he believed him
innocent; but the jury said they believed him guilty.
Thejudge could not bear to give it up to the jury;
and said he would try another jury. He had ano­
therjury, and tried the cause over again, aiid they
found:huh guilty the same. W hen the judge found
he could- not free him ; but by the two juries bad
made the:cause more strong against him, the judge
then addressedrthe prisoner—“ I believe you inno­
cent;concerning stealing these sheep; but I believe
you-are: guilty of some fatal crime, for which the
S.~1loV9SEAtr, Printer,'\Vood‘Strtrt, SpaJFicldr.
• Digitized by i ^ o o Q l e
judgments of God followed you, in the sheep, fo
punish you for a crime that you have committed,
in a crime that you have not; and as I have tried
my utmost to save you, and by that way brought
it die harder against you, it is impossible now for
me to save your life, as you are found guilty by both
juries; therefore I shall thank you, as you must die,
that you will confess what crime you have com­
mitted.” The bloody wretch then confessed, he
lived a servant in the house with the mistress, he
was then married to ; but as she had got a husband
when he went there a servant, so to have the wife,
whom he said he loved, he contrived, one morn­
ing, when his master arose to go to a fair, to rise
early and go before him and meet him in a private
place and murder him, which he did. He then
went home to bed as-if composed, and happy in the
cruelty he had committed, and appeared easy and
- cheartul before the wife. The night came, but no-
husband returned. She was alarmed; and he pre­
tended equal alarm the same; but would not go
alone in pursuit to find him. A miserable night
was spent by the wife, and he appeared to share her
sorrows, as an angel of light, though he was the
devil himself. W hen the master was found mur­
dered, he professed every agony with the wife ; and
by his false and pretended love gained her favour, and
she afterwards married him. And at the time he was
taken he was going to the same Fair that his master
was going to when he murdered him; and at the
very place, that he killed his master and threw him
in the ditch, the sheep that were in the field-jumped
over the hedge and ran before him. So the inno­
cent sheep brought the guilty wretch to the end he
deserved. I feel, from this Parable, that the whole
mysteries of the Bible will be brought to light, and
the concealed Murderer be made known. But here
my soul trembles and all my bones shake! I see
myself in the Woman’s place; my dear Lord mur-
l ,
( 4 )
Digitized by L s O O Q l e
S & t / / e f
( 9 )
dcrcd ! mjrfirst Husband murdered ! And by the
cursed arts of his murderer I have often been be­
trayed, fearing that I was wrong in listening to the
voice of my dear dying Lord ; as Satan’s arts have
often told me, to deceive me, that he came as a
friend, to persuade me against my Lord ; therefore I
am the Woman that hath had my Lord and Master
murdered; and am daily pursued by his murderer:
and now my soul crieth aloud for vengeance !
Blessed be the L ord for his l it t l e F lock op
Sheep, that have now jumped over the hedge to
free me from the murderous wretch who slew my
dear Lord, at first, whom my soul loved and now
my soul shall love him last. Oh ! how often has
that cursed wretch persuaded me there was no God,
and that he alone was all in power; but now, blessed
betheLoBD, the murderer will be brought to justice.
For I feel that my Bible will burst from this Para*
ble.—But how can I bear the reflections of my soul,
to think I was ever in the hand of the devil, that he
should have power to tempt me, through unbelief,
that he was not the wretched murderer, nor his guilt
would ever be brought to light ? But from this
Parable I know he will; and I would sooner now
give up my life, than I will give op my just revenge
against the cursed murderous foe—
So now I trust the sheep will stand
To join with me in heart and hand,
And then the T hial I'll go through,
And bring the Murderer to their view,
When-by both J uries he is cast;
For so 1 know the end will burst;
And I shall see the traitor fall,
Who by disguise hath conquer’d all
Thatjudg'd him innocent to stand.
But now the Litti.e Flock's at hand
That will his footsteps all betrav.
And shew the'Fall where it d!d lav;
And shew what arts he doth pursue'
To murderGentii.esand tiie J ews;
For in like manner both he east,
And in my Master’s room he plac'd
a a
Digitized by U o o Q l e
Jlimself in power to appear—
But now the Little Flock is neat
That Will betray his every guilt}
And he shall know that he has spilt
The Blood of J esus, my dear Lord,
Who all his cursed arts abhorr d }
And yet he let them to go on
Untif his Little Flock was come*
In the same place for to appear}
And then his Flock he dia ensnare.
Whatever way the wretch would turn
My Flock before him still would comet
Then bless’dbe my avenging God,
That now will make him feel his rod;
And he in prison now is cast,
And so his trial now must burst
No Judges here can ever do
For to believe him just and true,
That he the world has not deceiv’d.
A ll this thev vainly may bciieve;
But I’ve a Jury nigh At hand
That will fpr me the T rial stand;
And so they’ll pa6t themuiderous foe*:
No longer will they let him go
To reign in power as before,
He’s bound in prison 1see clear;
And from his prison he may burst,
And then I know he will be cast,
Just like the Parable that is here.
God’s hidden wisdom I see clear
In secret tracks conceal’d from man;
God’s wisdom they can never scan;
Because all things he’ll bring to light
Clear as the sun before your sight;—
** And in more lustre it shall shine
When I have told thee all my mind,
The way the Thief shall now appear,
And then my L ittle Flock I’ll clear,
How innocence did guilt betray :
I meant to bring it round this way.
And so the thing ordain’d at first
That at the end it so should burst:
And now's the time I’ll burst the whol^
And all his subtle arts shall fall,
No more your Husbands to betray,
Nor get your Wives in love with he;
For 1 will break his every band,k
And he the trial now shall stand,
The way he slew me at the first;
For now my Little Flock will burst,
And then my Brides they all will see
How they have been in bonds with, be.
Bdt when the T rial doth appear,
He'll find the Little Flock is uca*
( 4 )
Digitized by Google
, ( 5 >
That I'll confer he cannbt s te a ls
The Mysteries now I shall reveal:
They’re innocent, by my command;
And there the tempter bold may stand
To say their heartshe coyld not steal.—
?
For deeper Mysteries I’ll reveal:
Twas 1 that made my Flock to gb
So strong before him, he shall know*
That let him turn which way he will
They'll find a way to baffle still,
That they before him still will stands
And so the Trial they’ll commahd,
To make him stand and hear the sound
That he in all is guilty found;
That first the Husband he did slay,
And then the W ire he did betray
To makfe her judge her Lord Waj dead;
And then by arts he her betray'd
To make her think her Lord was gonfy
And he her Lover was become,
To lead her faithful heart astray.
I know he has seduc’d this way,
To make thy fervent love grow cold —
For now the mysteries I’ll unfold:
He slew-thy Saviour at the first,
And then in power he strong did bursty
To take possession of the whole.
And now Vll prove how this did fhH:
My Christian Friends he fifst did slay,
And so his arts come round that way;
Because theyj edg’d it could never be
My faithful Friends 'Were slain by he.’*
J\methe \5th} 1804.
Saturday June
verse in continuation of the
Here I shall give the verse in continuation of the
Flock of Sheep. After I had arisen froth a bed of
sorrow I was ordered, to take my pen in hand, and
theLord would answer me further of the Parable.
u Now Joanfia, thee Til answer:
From the Parable appears,
I that am thy Lord and Master
Know the T/he/’hath enter’d h^re^
After he had arts to murder n / "
My alarming Love to thee, j.A 2 /
Well 1 know his arts went further, ^ ****)£
And that way inflamed thee; <
Because in all he strong did fall
' Their sorrow to express;
For he, like Judas, work’d in alf
Andbrought on thy distress.
The Man the Husband did allow.
That was pronounced dead;
Digitized by Google
( « )
But by whit arts he did not know
The death on him was laid;
And then by arts he did contrive
Unto her close to lay. ,
But now from thee the causeI'll free,
As it thou canst not bear,
To think the wife was plac'd in thee,
* The murderers guilt to share. -
No, ’tii not thee, they all shall see,
That did the wretch caress.
N o : thou art with the Flock or Shee9,
That did before them burst;
So thee I'll clear; thou canst not bear
To have the thing brought home. \
Then I shall come another way,
And bring it to the Groom.
In foreign Land where it doth stand
A prince in power to reign:
A Bcthsheba for to command
The Groom was surely slain;
And then her love did never prove,
To seek her vengeance there;
Because that she, by gold from he.
Ne’er let the cause appear,
But all let die: I’ll tell thee why—
The great would all conceal,
And sooner let their gold to fly
Than have their deeds reveal’d.
And where's not love the cause to prove
1 know the dead must lie
W ithout their blood to be aveng'd—
And wilt thou £ct like she ?
Thou answerest, No: the truth is so—
No Black Prince here shall reign,
That prov'd thy Husband’s overthrow;
But now he shall be slam.
Then do not fear, for thou art here
Amongst the Sheep that burst;
For when the gap I had made clear
1 know thou wert the first, "
That from the gap began to hope
That there was room to burst,
And g6 before and make it clear
The way the murder came.
The Day of Vengeance now is near
The Devil to condemn.—
And here’s the Bride now by my side
That sliall in fury break;
For I shall place the Parable
To bring thee to the Sheep,
Where thou didst burst, 1 tell thee, first—
And let my Sealed come
And in the Field with thee appear,
Satan shall fall like him.
Digitized by Google
For now l say to thee this day
The T rial so,must come.
My Sheep have been turn’d every way
by Satan s artful hand;
But still before, I tell thee here,
My Sheep did surely go ;
And now I’ll let the Judge appear,
And prove the would is so.
"When I was cast the Judges burst
My Murderer then to free;
And my first Jury then was cast,
That boldly stood for me.
But now again, the second time^
My Jury do appear
My every Kingdom for to claim.
And cast the Murderer hore.
But now the same the Judges came—
That is, the world 1 mean;
They’ll try to free the infamy.
The J uries to condemn;
But I’ll appear to make it clear
That o f the Sheep lie’s free. '
All ways he ’th tried to turn them heret
But this could never be.
Because before my Spirit there
Stood strongly in the men,
That he his guilt can no way clear;
For now the time is come.
That 1 am here and do appear
Now in the Woman's Form;
For there at first the Thief did burst—
And now I’ve burst the same,
I tell thee, in the Flock of Sheep,
Where first the murder came.—
But unto thee the thing, 1 fee,
In agonies thou’st plac’d,
Because thy heart reproached thee,
And I that way did burst
To say thy heart had felt the dart
Of Satan s artful hand;
Because that thee, through jealousy
The T rial could not stand.
Always to bear, he did ensnare,
I know, thv heart with grief,
Until my Sheep they did appear
For to give thee relief;
Because alone thou madest thy moan,
Before my Sheep .did come,
And all together did agree
To bring thy T rial oil
For I’ll reveal and not conceal,
*Tis bringing round this way,
As thpugh my Sheep he here did steal;
' ( 7 )
Digitized by Google
tout then the J udge will say—
N o : he is free, we plain do see
He never stole them here, *
Because the Sheep were led by MB
This way for to appear,
'th at at the last he might be cast—
W c see our Bible’s plaip,
T hat like the Parable must burst,
And many will maintain
It was from Heaven the Type was giveit,
A mystery deep to Man,
T hat e'er a thing like this should come
To make our Bibles clear;
T he way the Murderer was found out
By Innocence was here.
Because the Sheep he could not keep*
That I turn’d everv way—
It is a Mystery here lies deep:
« None but a God,” they’ll say,
*
* Could order so such thing to do*
« To make the Sheep appear;
u And now to prove his Bible tru$*
« This Parable is clear:
* The Thief is cast, we see at last
4
4 Where he betray’d atf r s t ;
* And now the gap is broken dow^n*
« Then out the Sheep m^y burst*
* Now every way for to betray
We see his artful hand.”—■
It was thy jealousy to try
That first i plac’d the Man,
As thou to'be the Brjd£ of he;
But it thou could’st not bear.
I used this innocent disguise
To black the villain here;
And thee to try, I tell thee why—
For so the J ew’s will burst:
a Our Husband he did sure betray,
And murdered at the first;
**And in his arms we all do lay—
“ Ah ! here the truth doth burst:
4
1 Christ, we see, must murdered be*
“ And then to come again,
41An Israel’s Shepherd to appear,
“ The Sheep, we now see plain,
41 He plac’d at first, the Type did burst,
“ \y e knowr, by God’s Command ;
4i Or else the Rider would have miss’d*
“ So many ways he turn’d,
4
4 Himself to free from infamy,
“ But Abel’s Flock, was there;
“ And now the murdering. Cains$ we f«e#
'* In S atan do appeal.
Digitized by Google
* Then as the curse it then was plac'd, • «
“ We now see must come on.
**By Innocence the Quilt was cast,
kfW e must the whole discern;
“ That are not blind, we now must find
" Goda W isDOM to appear:
.f* He’s TURNING W ATER NOW TO WlH^
u Too strong for us to bear.
For to contend like learned men,
“ We cannot here dispute:
“ Her Parables are brought so plain,
“ It strikes our Learning mute.”
This will be seen by learned men,
That now have eyes to see, f
That from the Parable was penn’d
Twas first ordain’d by Me
That way to come and to condemn
The guilty Murderer there,
When for a cfime he'd never done,
“ But now we do see clear
*• The Sh e e p are free, net stolen by,he;
u He wished them to miss$
44But this we find could never be,
“ For God hath brought round this
g*Before our sight, to bring to light
" Our Bibles.to our view."—
Then sure the Lamb’s W if e m ust appear,
( And her revenge is true;
It was an innocent disguise
To place it in her first;
But when her heart inflam'd did rise
Then iu true love to burst,
I chose tlris innocent disguise
To black the villain’s art,
Thy love and goodness to surprise,
The more inflam’d my heart; .
Now I have been the'HfiitafiT strong*,
And that all men shall know.
To prove thy heart was all my own,
l let my rival foe '
In thee to break thy heart to sink
In cverv horror here 5
* Bi|t yet thy hand I d not let go,
\Vhen he thy heart did tear,
Inflam’d by hell, l do know welb
* But 1 was then behind,
And in thy heart l soon did swell-* • a l .
lliy Osmyn thou shalt find. ff^**^**
June the 16/A, l604. mi IKS'***.
t ‘T M c alludes t« die Parable of the Herniit in Disguise, in p. 86.
B
t 9 )
Digitized by Google
>
z
*
•*
* fb»r/£-
THE HISTORY OF JOANNA’S LIFE.
Q
fU
j June the 17 th, 1804.
t*-tJf°2£ M y Father married his first Wife out of pity, be­
cause he saw her upon a sick bed, and he was told
she could not live without him. He then went and
told her to arise, for he would have her; as he
thought to himself he would break the hearts of no
more: but that woman died in child-bed ; and while
she was dying, my Mother was in the room ; and he
thought to himself, if she died, as soon as decency
would allow, he would make his addresses to my Mo­
ther, whom he felt in his heart to admire.' But my
. Mothf r had thought in her heart, of all themen upon
earth he was the last she would have; for she was
provoked with words she had heard before, as one
of my grandfather’s servant men had bedn in com­
pany with my Father and many others, who was
talking about the women whom they should like for
wives; and one said, my Mother he should like for
a wife. Another made answer, “ I would never go a
courting there; for men enough have tried there,
and she hath refused them all: she looks with scorn
on every man.” My Father answered, “ you know not
how to go a courting to a religious woman: I ’ll be
bound for it, if I was a widower I would gain her.”
The man came home and told my Mother of it;
which she said raised her indignation, and she
thought to herself, if he was a widower, and offered
to come to her, he should find she was not so easily
gained. But, being very intimate with his Wife, sh?
was desired t6 be with her when in child-bed; which
she was; and then my Father fixed his mind to
come to my Mother as soon as decency would allow;
but the agonies he saw his Wife die in, made him
like a distracted man. So my Mother judged him
a man of tender feelings, which with all his passoa
Digitized by L s O O Q l e
he really was; for though he was a man of strong ,
passions, yet after his passion was over, his heart
was tom with self-reflections, and he would do any
thing to make amends; for he was a man of tender
feelings, and strong passions; and my Mother has
4>ften reproved us children when we have been pro­
voked with our Father’s passions. She would often
fay, “ Children, why do you blame your Father ?
if he is passionate he is compassionate, and he doth
not do like many men, spend his time and his mo­
ney in public houses, to bring you children to the
parish; but he has been a hard working, careful,
industrious man, to keep you from the parish, that
you might not suffer, as other poor apprentices do.”
And now 1 must speak of my Father’s tender feel­
ings ; for he was as compassionate as he was passionate;
for I remember our apprentice maid, when my Bro­
ther had fallen out with her, my Father would not
permit him. to come in his presence to supper, but
.saicl it was as good tQ be a toad under a pair of har­
rows as to be an apprentice under so many masters
and mistresses; one master and mistress were enough
for any apprentice; and no apprentice in his house
should have any more. You may marvel I. am
writing these particular .things; but it is the sixth
day, and here I shall rest from my labour: one
Master and Mistress shall be enough for a i l o n e
G op and one Lawgiver.— And now I shall come to
another thing of my Father: He said my temper
was such, and my care and industry so great, that
no man but a devil could ever fall out with me ; and
.••yet he himself, when provoked to passions, without
a cause, would fallout: and James Speerway, who
worked at his house, working of flax, and slept in
r the house, had been witness to my Father’s falling
.nut with me, and repeated his words to me—Your
-iJja$ber says, none but a devil can fell out with you;
and .now he hath made himself a devil by felling out
tSfith you. But I never saw a man in such agonies in
s 2
{ 1
1 )
Digitized by Google
my life as he was, after he had done it. He raved
like a madman in the night, and said— 'lf O h ! m y
dear child, have I grieved her heart, that m akes
herself such a slave to keep me from a prison !
W hy shall I grieve her heart? W hat devil is in
me ? Oh, that dear creature, how does she strive
to please me ! how does she strive to keep me' from
ruin ! I must see her !” This was his waking in th e
night after he had fallen out with me. James Speer­
way made him this answer—“ How can you wish to
disturb her ? She has staid up to work till twelve
o’clock, and is but just gone to bed.” But my F a ­
ther answered, “ I cannot live unless I see her.” S o
they were forced to knock at my door and call to
me ; when I arose and went to my Father, who took
me by the hand, and said—“ My dear child, dost
thou forgive me ? Why did I fall out with thee,
•that is the comfort of my life, arid venturest thy life
to save me from ruin ? Oh my dear child ! Oh my
dear child! my heart is wounded to see thy love for
, m e!” At the same time my Father’s face was like a
/fft-ffij/i' pot when you take off a cover covered with drops, in
great sweat, which I tookpnd wiped off, and sat hours
h|S bed-side to comfort him, and to compose
^ / him to sleep. But the next day he told James
Speerway, how his heart was wounded to think he
had grievedime. One more instance of my Father I
must mention. W e had been making of cyder in
the day; and at twelve at night he waked, and find­
ing I was up at work, he called down and desired
me to go down to the lower orchard to the pound I
house, and,see if the cyder wa6 not running over the
tub, for he was afraid it was. The pound house
was more than two fields from the house we lived iti,
| or a long lane the other way. I took the candle and
I lanthorn and went down as my Father desired me.
I did not perceive there was any moon, for it shined
ip a cloud; but when I came to open the pound
Upuse dopr, the light of the moon shone out through
( 1* )
/
Digitized by Google
y /L u ^
( n )
tiie clbud against the jambs, which made them ap»>
pear to me like a man, and the summer upon the
top like the head of a man ; at the same time the
owls that were up in the pound chamber were
frighted at my opening the door, and they flew out
and let the apples fall, which made a great noised
At this I was frightened, and thought it was the
spirit of the man that had been drowned in the well
before; as there was a well by the pound house,
which was a dwelling house when my Father took the
farm; but people said it was always troublesome,
apd no man would live there; so he made no use of
the house, only for my Brother to keep rabbits,
which used to make a great noise in the night; and
Squire Putt one Sunday called my Father into the
School-house, and said he had an information
against him, that he had smugglers in his lower house,
and people did hear them every night as they rode
b y : so that he made that house a smuggling house,
and they did hear thd people jumping about. My
Father answered, your honour is wrongly informed ;
it is nothing but rabbits my Son keeps there ; and if
your honour will not believe me, I must beg your
honour will send one of your servants, and then you
will see how the rabbits get up upon the benches of
the window and jump off to make that noise. Mr,
Putt took my Father’s word; for he had said before,
if there was an honest man in the parish it was my
Father; and told my Father, when he was poor-
warden and brought in his book of accounts at
Easter, that he was peevishly honest, and therefore
he must stand poor-warden another year.—But now
I shall return to my fright. Judging I had seen a
spirit; when I opened the door and heard the owls, and
saw the light of the moon shining against the jambs,
I let my lanthorn fall and put out my candle; I then
ran home as fast as I could run, without bolting
the door, or locking the garden gate, but rap
home through the lane, and thought 1 heard the
Digitized by G o o g l e
( t o .
footsteps of the spirit after m e; for more than twenty
yards 1 ran through a river, as the waters were then
high. When I came home-my Father called outtp
hnow if the cyder was run over ? but finding my
voice so trembling that I could scarce answer him,
he called out—“ My dear love, what is the matter?” I
-thought to myselfhe might well say my dear love; fer
he had frightened me out. of my senses, by sending me
down in the pound hpuse at that time of the night. So
I told him how;I was frightened; and that 1 had neither
seen the tubs nor the Cyder, for my candle was gone
o u t; and I had neither bolted the door nor locked
the gate. My Father pitied my weakness, and did
not blame me, but assured me I had seen no spirit,
and it was nothing but the moon, that was hid in a
cloud, that shined against the jam bs; and it was
the owls Hying out, that he supposed had apples in
their mouths and let them fall, which made the noise.
I looked at the window and saw the moon was burst
from the clouds, but I had perceived no moon be­
fore. I then went to bed, reflecting with myself
what a weak fool I had been, to be frightened with
nothing but shadows; for I was truly convinced of
the truth of my Father’s words, and called to my
remembrance, that I had seen nothing but a glim­
mering light shining against the jambs, and that I
heard the owls fly over my head, that in my conci­
sion 1 did not think of.—Now I have ended the story
about my Father and my fright, I shall return back
to my old Lover. I staid at Sidmoutb some months,
in hopes he would return again; but finding he would
not, I left the place, and determined to give my
heart and soul to God. I told my Sister I should ra­
ther die than ever marry any man but him. My
Mother and Sisters often reasoned with me, the mad­
ness of my passions. I told my Mother, it was for
my good to wean my heart from this world and
Jaring it to the Lord. She answered, it was for my
good if I made that use of it. After that I went to
service : and musing to myself repeatedly the hymns
Digitized by Google
< 15 y
1‘have Mentioned, and many others, I got the bet­
ter of my foolish passion, though I could not blot
his memory from my mind. I then had a young
man come a courting in Honiton, whose rame was
John Thomas; and though 'he was a man of fortune,
the thoughts of the other drew my heart from love; ,
but by strong persuasions of my friends I indulged
his company for a little time, and faithfully told him,
he might think, as my Father was a farmer he would
give me a fortune, but f would not deceive him, for
he could give me none. His answer was—“ money,
my dear, I do not want; I have money enough
for*you and myself too: 1 have fifty pounds a year,
which my Uncle left m e; I have money out at use,
which my Father gave me, which I will call in, if
you will be married, and place you in a shop before
my time is o u t; for I had rather have you without a
forthing, than any other woman with five hundred
pounds.” His geneirous offer made me indulge his
company a little while, though I could not feel in
my heart to love him ; and I reasoned with him the
folly of his wishing to be married till his time was
out, as lie was an apprentice to a serge maker. Af­
ter that my Mother died, which made me dead to
the world : and the Sunday, I went in to hear the
minister; (Mr. Brown had asked me to go and hear
M r. Stevens of Axminster.) His text was—Blessed
are they that weep, for they shall be comforted. I
thought he preached his sermod all to m e; but this
hymn struck deep upon me—
I i>k’d them bow theythitherieame?
The^ with united breath
Ascribed the Conquest to the Lamb j
Their Victory lo 1m death. " ;1
They mark’d the footsteps that he trod,
His zeal inspir'd their breasts;
And following their inrarnatc God,
Possess'd the promi&'d rest ■
;W ith these hymns, and the sermon, my heart was
filled with nothing but heaven, or a strong desire
Digitized by Google
t »« )
.70S
for heaven* John Thomas came part of the w%y
home with me, the last time I ever was in his com­
pany ; for that night, when I came home, I was
freed from the burden of my doubts and fears, by
the powerful answer that was given to me in prayer,
which is mentioned in my Fifth Book* I then bid
adfeu to the world* After that I went down into
the West Country; and Mr. Rigsby made me an
offer of bis hand and fortune, which was sixty
pounds a-year; and said, the first moment he saw
me in Black Torrington church, he was deep
enough in love with me to be married before he-
went out of it. But I refused the man, because
they told me he had had a base child. AJ1 my
friends were provoked with me; but I could not bear
his sight, though they would persuade me it would
be an advantageous match for me ; but I told them,
1 never would be wedded to a man that was wed­
ded to sin ; nor have a man for my husband that:
had the devil for his father; so I left the W est
-Country ; and after I was gone Mr. Rigsby came to
my Sister Page’s to see me. The servant maid told
him I was gone home into Devonshire. She said he
turned as pale as death—“ She is gone! she is gone 1
indeed she is gone !” I returned to my Father’s ;apd
after that he went dowp to the West Country.to my
Sister’s. My Sister told my-Father of Mr. Rigsby’s at­
tachment to me. My Father came home in great-fury
and askedmehowl couldrefuse aman ofsuchfortune}
besides he was a handsome, genteel man; and he be­
lieved I was mad. I told my Father I did not like
him. He in heat of anger exclaimed, I don’t know
what the devil thou dost like ! thou shouldest have *
man chalked out for thee; and if thou dost not like
him he shall be blotted out again. I said a man
muk be of a more noble spirit than he was for a Hus-
banoTbr me. My Father'said, he did not see any
of these noble spirited men going; he had seen men
«f my Sister’s liking; but he never saw a man of my
1
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
liking in bis life, and he was afraid he never should.
It was well for him I was not married, as I was the
only one that could go to his house to assist him in
distress; for, though they assisted him in money,
they could not go to stay with him, as I did. But
here I shall leave my Father. After this I went to
Sidmouth to my Brother; and Peter West paid his
addresses to me. He was a young nlan of remark­
able good character, and one I thought remarkably
handsome. Here my heart began to be entangled,
again in love, which I dreaded. One Sunday even­
ing after we parted I walked my room, with a war
in my heart: I was thinking with myself, where
is my foolish heart wandering ? and was earnest in
prayer that the Lord would not permit the love of
the creature to draw my heart from my Creator,
and that the Lord would not permit me to keep
company with any man, that he had not ordained
for my Husband. I prayed that that might be a
sign to me that he might not be able to come to
me for a month. I was answered, he should not
come for a month if it was not the Will of the Lord
1 should have bitn. The next day my Brother said
Peter’s courtship was too hot to hold long. I said
if it lasted a month it would last for ever. My
Brother laughed at my. words; but finding Peter
came no more, he said then Peter’s faith has failed
him; and some laughed, and said Peter was worse
than Paul, to break off in that abrupt manner. I
said I did not blame him ; for if he thought he could
do better, I did not wish him to hurt himself to
come to me. But two months after I met him by
chance, and he then would have renewed his for­
mer acquaintance, and said he would never deceive
me more. I told him he never should, for no man
should deceive me twice ; and if he thought him­
self better heshguld go to better; for I never want­
ed any man' tb hurt himself to come to me : for he
was great, and I was grand, and he might rais$ his
Q
( 17 )
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
W ZOtr
colours as high as the skies, but he must take dufe
they did not fall down again ; but he did so m uch,
that his friends lamented that they ever persuaded
him against ipe. But I refused him in answer to
what was said to me in prayer; for his being ab­
sent a month was a convincing proof to me I was
not to have him; but did not tell him so. He said,
these upright men get if you can; but I don’t
know whjre ypu will find them. True I found his
words; as true he did mine; for upright men are
very scarce. After that, for a short time, I kept
company with hiy brother-in-law, and then went
to Exeter, to the place where I was directed.* B ut,
O h ! what a scene of misery broke out th ere!
After living some years in the house, the master of
the house declared himself in love with me. N o
tongue can paint the horror I felt, to hear of love
from a married man. . 1 asked him how he could
make a profession of riligion, and talk of love to
another whilst he had a wife of his own. H e said
his love was not sinful; It was only religious love,
which no man that had such a wifi: as he had, that was
roving after other men,could help; and toldme ofma-
■nymen that he had catched her with—and now to see
a mind so mild and heavenly, endowed with every
yiriue, no religious man could help it. 1 told him
he should not venture in temptation's road; and if
his heart was inclined to love me I would leave
his house, and gave warning to go away. I went
to Mr. Tiiinlett’s to offer. He threw himself into a
violent passion, and said if I would stay he never
•would mention his love more ; but if I went, never
a methodist should come into his house again ; but
if I would stay he would maintain -the preachers, •
that he knew I had a great regard for, as I thought
the n religious men. This made me earnest in
prayer, that the Lord would direct me what to
do. I was answered, the Lord would direct me and
protect me, nothing should harm me ; but I should
( 1 8 )
Digitized by Google
not leave the house, for he had ends unknown to
me, to keep me in it. So in a state of misery in
m y mind I staid there some time : sometimes jea­
lous it was a wrong spirit that ordered me to stay
there. After that he took a methodist parson into
his house, who declared himself a lover ro the wife •
. in my presence, and despised her husband, and
wanted to set all the children against him. This
wounded me to the heart; and he himselfexpressed
a jealousy. I thought to get the man out of the
house privately, by Mr. Wesley’s preachers; so
that I went to put Mr. Wills out of the
thoughts of his jealousy: but he threw himself
.in a violent passion, and upbraided me with hypo­
crisy^ He said I was as bad as her to vindicate her;
I had upbraided him with crimes he was never
guilty of, in his love to me, and was going to leave
the house for mentioning it; but now I upheld her
in crimes she was guilty o f; for he knew his wife
too well, and Saunders too. His words cut me to
the heart; for I knew I was concealing a much
blacker crime than I had reproved in him, but
thought I was the wrong person to tell him of it,
as it might inflame his mind to renew his former
words to me ; so I left the house, and went to Mus-
berry with my Brother. But when Mr. Westley’s
.preachers told me that Saunders was turned out of
their meetings, and Wills had taken him into his
house, after I had tried by every private means to
get him out of the house, by writing to his wife and
daughter what infamous characters they had got
on Saunders’s account; and Mrs. Wills did not
regard her character, and persuaded her children
the same,- I then wrote a letter to him, that he had
a serpent in his bosom, by keeping of Saunders
there. He then threw all his malice upon m e;
and said his wife was a virtuous prudent woman ;
and I was a wicked woman to make disturbance
c 2
( 1
9 )
Digitized by G o o g l e
between them. I then saw his pretended love wai
as I told him, temptations from the devil, by his
disappointed malice. I thought so ungrateful a
man co' hi not exist; but here his malice went fur­
ther. He haunted me to the places where I went,
t j get me out of service, till I was obliged to go to
law with him ; and then he hired two false witnesses
against me, which made me tremble in the Guild­
hall, fearing he would swear away my life. I was
then answered—It is finished; hitherto it is God’s
permission ; but no further is his restraint.—
-I asked
iny counsellor why Wills did not bring his Son, be­
cause he would not swear so false as the others wrould?
IVly counsellor, Roberts, asked counsellor Fanshaw
why lie had not brought the Son ? He said he
brought as many as he thought proper. Counsellor
Roberts said, you brought as many as did not care
what they swore; Mr. Wills would not puijure
those in his own house, but he cared not how many
he perjured out of rhe house. Let him bring the
Son ; and if he swore as these have, I will give up
my cause. But the Son would not come to defend
him. So I got my trial ; because the Son would
not come against me, to take a false oath —The
mystery of this goes deep to the nation : as you
have not a quarter of the particulars. It paints the
/ w>rld in its true colours. The day after I was order­
ed to write the history of my life, and have it go in
print; for thousands should be converted by it. I
wrote the History of my Life ; but my friends pet-
6uaded me never to put it in print; and I was not
pressed by the Spirit after I had written it to put it
.in print, till I was visited again in ninety-two ; but
this was at the end of the American War. When you
have received the History of my Life, you will
receive the explanation of the whole. /
y I did not tell the worst of Rigsby, when I
7was writing of him, what made me despise him w
( 20 )
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
( )
much ; but the reason was, he kept a woman in hit
house, and brought her with child, and then to con­
ceal bis shame from the world, he got some savine,
and intreated her to take i t ; he said it would not
do her any hann' only kill the child, and sq she was
to conceal her shame from the world, an^snight
live with him as before. The simple woman took
his advice, and killed the child and herself too;
and when she was dying, in her agonies she told it,
but as she did it by her own consent, and did not
blame him so much as herself, he had no punish­
ment of the law ; but his character was despised
by upright people ; yet as he was a young man of
a decent fortune, he got himself respected amongst
people of the world, who had no better principles than
himself. But of the' truth of his history my Sister
■did not tell my Father, as he tried to persuade peo­
ple it was a false report, and bribed her friends to
keep it secret; and lor the love of the money some
did ; which made it a confused story, and could not
be proved ; but confused as it was, I believed it true;
and after my Fathers passion was ovpr, I told him
my reasons ; which, he said, if it was true lie could
not wish me to have him.
But as I was ordered to go through my history in that
day, I could not go through particulars; but now, as
these particulars are most wonderfully explained, I am
ordered td put them in print: one part must be sent
to the Reverend Mr. Foley, and the other part will be
sent to Mr. Sharp. So Mr. Sharp is desired to print
from this day, the letters he receives; and M r.
Foley the letters he receives his day; thus they are
both printing a book they cannot understand, before
they see both the books together; for Mr. Sharp
must see no more of Mr. Foley’s letters, nor M r.
Foley of his, before the book is our. The Lord is now
working In this manner, to shew mankind the folly of
the Jews and Gentiles; for no more than they two
Digitized by v ^ o o g l e
( )
ean understand what they are printing, before they
come to weigh both the books together ; no more do
the Jews understand the Law, nor the Gentiles the
'Gospel, ,befbre they come deeply to weigh the whole
together. Mr. Sharp may marvel, why I have sent
Lim such a history, that he does not understand the
.meaning o f; and Mr. Foley may marvel, 1 have sent
him the meaning, but never told him the Parables
from- whence they were taken; so they are both lost
in' a mist, as. M r. Putt was by my Father’s rabbits,
•when he had an inforpiation that he kept smugglers
.there-—
and perfect so they are smuggling .up the
.Bible, and will make it a smuggling book; but
when they come to look to the mystery, they will
;find there are l iv in g words in thebiBLE, that must
make a noise as the rabbits did, and if they will
come and see the truth, as my Father desired Mr.
Putt to send his servant, they will find my words
as true as my Father’s, that they had laid a wrong
information, to say the Bible must be smuggled
up to the weak judgment of men, and the living
truth that stands in it, must never break out and
appear.—
u So from the smugglers I now begin:
The living truth to men was never seen*
But when the truth they did begin to hear,
They said that smugglers in all was there;
Because the truth they did not wish to know.
But all my Bible they have smuggled so,
T o cheat their God; in all to him his due,
They cheat theircountry»and they cheat theirking.
And yet to thee, theyall these lies do bring,
That thou art the smuggler that doth appear,
But now the truth I bid them see and hear:
That in my Bible living truths do stand,
And like tnc rabbits they may all comnoiand;
For when the day-light it to all appear,
They'll find no smuggling in the words &re here—
But truths and life must now before them burst;
They’ll find the smugglers in the land are cast;
They'll find the Shepherds arc the smugglers here.
Their information*Jet them all appear;
Digitized by G o o g l e
( a» )
And then Til prove they've smuggled every word, .
And in like manner, they've condemned their God,
As they condemn'd thy simple Father there,
And full as wrong, I’ll make them all appear;
For when the truth, they all do come to see;
T beyll find my every word, as true to be
As e er thy Father's it did then appear ;
And perfect so, thy innocence I’ll clear,
And prove to all, the information's wrong,
To say the Smuggling doth in thee become;
That thou ray Bible now art smuggling up,
They'll find the truth in every word to drop,
As from thy Father's lips did then appear;
They'll find the living-truth in all is here,
That must burst out, if men will come and ge&
And jump for joy, that 1 am come to free
A world of ruin now from misery.
And from thy Father’s words I’ll further go,
Nothing but devils can condemn thee so;
Though oft his fury he doth work m man;
But like thy Father, let then) now condemn
Themselves in passions, how they so did bursV
Ann from thy Father I have told thee first
That with the nation I should him comparer
And with the nation I do answer here
That every Father that is in your land,
A Son of mine, will like thy rather stand;
Themselves of passions they will surely blarney
And say, the Devil did their hearts inflame:
For none but devils, now they plain do see,
Could e’er condemn the innocence of thee;
For so the Fathers now I know they’ll break,
And blame themselves, they did so harshly spealfe
Provok'd by passions, by the Devil here,
For in their words thy Father did appear,
And said, the Devil surely was in he,
Or he should never grieve the heart of thee ;
It was the Devil did him then provoke,
And on himself he felt the greatest stroke 1
When thou in tender love did sooth him there,
Thy Father’s history does not half appear,
The tender love that thou didst shew to he.
The flaming passions thou didst often see ;
Because thy Father’s passions they were strong.
And his own way he wish'd all to be dond;
But his own way, by prudence thou didst see,
If he did get it would his ruin be.
Therefore together jangling you went on,
Till on his death-bed—then, behold the man!
* If thou art present Christ is surely here 1
”
And let his dying words to all appear—
And then the dying Fathers all will see.
When dead to sin, they all will speak like he:
“ If thou art present, Christ is surely here.”
Now pen his words, and let them to appear.
Digitized by Google
»
When my Father lay on his death-bed, the1per­
sons that attended him told me, they heard my Fa­
ther talking to the Devil, who said he was come for
him ; my Father answered, he would not have him;
for how could he think to have him, when he
knew he had an interest in Christ ? he had always
been praying to him, and seeking after him, and
relied on his tender mercies and goodness, and how
could the Devil think to have him ? But they knew,
by my Father’s answers, that he terrified him, that
he would have him ; and it threw him into strong
convulsion fits. But when I came, he was almost
insensible to the knowledge of any one ; and when
I held him by the hand, calling him Father, he
•aid, “ Father! be you my Father?” I said,‘no;
. my deaf Father, you are my Father. He said,
Who are you then ?” I said, Joanna ; he clasped
me by the hand and said, “ my dear child, if thou
art come, then Christ is Come.” This was the night
that he died, while I was holding his dying hands.
M y Sister Carter said at his burial, as soon as hi*
corpse was taken from his chamber, she heard the
most beautiful heavenly music, singing round the
house the Corinthian Anthem : She asked of the
woman of the house, “ If the singers were coming.”
She said, u No.” My Sister finding she did not
hear the singing, took no more notice to her, but
waited with impatience, hoping she should see me, as
I appointed to go, but I was ill with my journey, and
ordered not to go : “ Let the dead bury the dead,*
Were the words said to m e; so my Sister went to
the funeral with the woman she disliked, because
•he thought she had not taken care of my Father;
but,-as she was going along, she heard the same
heavenly music in the air; and it seemed to ascend
higher and higher, till it had ascended out of her
hearing; but when she came to the grave, she
thought she should have fainted away, to hear him
pot into the grave and the water flounced almost
( 2* )
Digitized by G o o g l e
( as )
over the coffin, which they told her could not be
avoided, as the church yard laid so damp, and were
astonished to see her iii such agonies, at the burial
of so helpless an old m an; but she said, ,she reflect­
ed in her mind, that she had not taken him to her
own house, fearing proper care had not been taken
of him, and she was angry with me, when they told
her, that I said I praised the Lord when he had
taken him out of a miserable world. I asked her,
how she could wish to see him live in such misery,
when he had told her he was perfectly miserable
with the people he was with. Then how could I
wishto see him live in that misery ? My Sister said,
she would hate altered that misery, if she had known
his end was so near; and now her conscience did
reproach her, I told her, I had nothing to reproach
my conscience with ; for I had done for my Father
to the utmost, and supported him to the last penny.*
•
*•Now these shadows thou hast mention’d,
T is the substance must appear,
So let all men drop contention,
Like you two, ’twill soon appear.
Repentance strong in some will come,
And like thy sister say,
•• If we had known the day at hand \
4
4We'd done a different way.” 4|
Repentance late will be the late
O f thousands in your land ;
1 tell you plain, ye sons of men,
Like these two all do stand:
The one appear—44my conscience clear,
4
4I’m glad to see the hour
44The heavenly music for to hear,
4
4 And see my Saviour s power/*
While others say another way—
4
4No here my heart doth bum
44 My conscience I can never clear,
4
4 He did intreat to come ,
€
<And dwell with me, I plain do see,
4
4But him 1did refiise.”
And now 1 tell thee, Jn the end,
> This must come to the Jews;
Because that there, they'll see it clear,
The watery graves roust come $
The resurrection to appear,
When 1 arose again:
.Digitized by U o o Q l e
< s« )
one lament. Without content,
And did my sufferings see;
The others say another way.
No gridffor him can be.
Then thou say here do I appear
. The sister not to mourn ;
No, no *
, to thee can never be,
Thou art not ihe sister there:
Because in all, 1now will call,
And prove thy conscience clear, ^
Then sure the fwo bring to your view,
The Gentiles mustTbe come,
When thou art'gone, and lam come*
T he substance all will see—
4
4Our conscience clear doth now appeai>
4
4'Hiere is no grief in we:
4
4 Fbrstie is free from misery,
4
4 Deliver’d from her foe,”
\V hilst soine will say, in that great day,
4
4Had l believ'd it so,
44 That she was near, her death appear,
4
4Atid did us so invite,
i4That from Her foe we'd take her herb
4
4And bring the truth to light; 1
44But we refus’d, and like the Jews,
4
4In cruelty did stand,
44 And every way she liegg’d of we
4
4To free her heart and Halid;
4
4 But we wouldncrt Until the stroke
4
4Of death to her was near.”
June the 20th, 1804.
THE PARABLE OF THE HERMIT. .
The H e rm it ivas called O sm yn.
O rlando, the revengeful Rival of O smyn.
B elin da, the Fair.
O smyn, an officer in the Navy, was gone to
sea and left Belinda, whose affections he had gained^
and she was deeply in love with him.
Orlando was a Rival to Osmyn, and used his ut­
most endeavours to gain Belinda.
• • lie practifed all his warv schemes,
To gam thfc Fair One’s heart;
But she despis’d his every love
And shun'd hi? powerful arts.
1
Digitized by G o o g l e
' f a #
( 27 )
When he found all his attempts vain, and fruitless
to gain the fair one, he thought if he could gain
one to aid his scheme, in gaining the ring from Be­
linda, which Osmyn had given her, that then he
should be successful in his projects to procure him­
selfadmittance to her by the ring, for he had agreed
with villains to kill Osmyn as soon as he returned
from sea—Thus when he had made known his
deep-laid scheme
A Hermit did appear—
And promis'd for to lend his aid
To gain the Fair One there.
He offer’d gold aud great rewards
To gain the Fair One's Ring—
Because his Rival he’d destroy
When he did complete the thing—
The Hermit promis'd then his aid,
And to the fair one goes:
Complain'd of poverty and woe,
Her goodness soon ne proves,
As Heaven had taught her to be good
To charity inclin’d !
She gave him gold, she gave him food,
And promis’d he should find
A triena in her, if he appear d
Assistance more to crave—
The Old Man blcss’d her generous heart
And did this warning give,
u Beware, beware, he faid, of One,
4
4 Beware thou generous good:
u May Heaven protect thy generous heart,
4
4In virtue thou hast stood.’’
He press'd her hand, and eager gaz'd,
And blessings call'd from Heaven,
As she such favours had bestow'd,
Such bounties to him given—
He heav'd a sigh and went away,
And hasted o’er the plain:
Belinda look'd to see his way
And saw Orlando come—
The Hermit stopp'd with him*to speak—
The Lady then complain’d,
4
4 Shall he another’s favours seek
4
4 Nyben l so offer’d mine?’’
She lift'd her hand aud miss'd her Ring*
4
4Oh Heavens! be just,” she cried,
4
4 Was it for this the Old Man press'd
4
4To gain the paltry thing ?
"
—
Then as she spoke, Orlando burst
So hasty o’er the plain.—
D 2
Digitized by Google
Then in she went, her door did bolt,
And fear’d to see him come—
Orlando came with hasty joy
That he had got the Ring;
And said that he would give it her
If she would let him in.
Nowfor her absent lover's sake
She did unbolt the door—
And for to gain her lovers Ring
She did him then implore l
With scornful smile he thus replied,
“ Now tbou art mine, my Fair!
**Whilst thou wert wearying Heaven, he cried,'
4
4I did enjoy thy prayers—
44Oh black ingratitude!” she cried,
4
4Can man so cruel be,
44 To boast of victories so bv arts
“ As now are gain’d by thee ?”
With scornful smile he then replied,
“ Let Heaven reward the good*1
—
This being said flew ope the door,
Where the Old Beggar stood—
44I’ve seen a man,” the Hermit cries,
• 4
4That from far climates came,
44 Bid me this picture to produce,
“ And you would know his name”
With eagerjoy she then did gaze,
4
4 It is my L o r d s h e cries;
“ It is, it is, my Qsmyn brave.”
Orlando He rose in haste—“ My rival Foe—
rises in “ Look to the Fair,” he cries—
haste* u T is time ere this my rival’s dead;
4
4*Tis time that he should die.”
He drew the sword and rushed out—
Belinda A h ! cruel heart of stone;
cries. She heard a horrid, horrid shout,
That echo’d to the groan.
She shriek’d, she cried, 4
4 A h! let me go
To see my love” she cries.
Hermit. 44I am order’d not tq let thee go,"
Replied the sturdy sage,
Though of thy goodness I do know
Thou can’st not mock old age.”
Belinda. « Villain,** she cried, “ as base as old,
44 I*et me be gone!” she cried,
441 must beholds my hero brave,
4
4 My love before he dies**—
Hermit. «<And so thou shalt,*' he then replied,
4
4Behold him. on this board !”
And down he threw his silver locks.
And so confirm’d his word—
441 chofe this innocent disguise
“ To black a villain’s arts;
9
4Thy love and goodness to surprize,
( 28 )
Digitized by Google
i W )
The more inflam'd mv heart:
Thou hast not seen the Foe, i
Perhaps ere this the villain's dead,
By friends prepar'd below.
Osmyn had prepared friends to destroy Orlando,
as Orlando had thought to destroy Osmyn—And
Osmyn by taking the disguise of the Hermit, be­
came fully assured of the infamous and diabolical
intentions of Orlando towards him, and therefore
caught him in the very trap he laid for Osmyn.—
So will Satan be caught in the very trap he hath
laid for others by the Goodness and Power of our
Blessed Lord.
A LETTER FROM MR: SHARP TO THE BISHOP O F ---------.
SEE THE BOOK OH THE FRAYBR3 FOB THE FAST, PAGE S3.
" M T L O R D , TitchfieldStreet, London, June23, 1804.
If your Lordship would wish for any information
about this extraordinary and respectable character, I
shallfeel it a duty, for the sake of Truth, to wait on
you at any hour or day, when it suitsyour convenience;
but I think it proper to inform your Lordship that
Mrs. Joanna Southcott most certainly writes from a
Spirit invisible, as 1 have frequently been with her
and have wrote from her for these last two years;
andwhat she has written before, as signsfor future
belief, have actually taken place. The whole tenden­
cy of her writings proves that the millennium, or
Kingdom of Christ, is at hand. I trust that I have
refutation, both as a man and an artist, to lose, which
is of too much consequence to be sacrificed, for what
may be called a delusion by the world-, I have there­
fore taken every method to prevent myself from being
deceived by any cunning contrivance.
I am* with respect,
Your Lordship's humble Servant,
W i l l i a m S h a r p .
P. S. I shallfeelmyselfhighlygratified byyour Lord-
dap's acceptance of two prints, being the labour of my
hands, which allude to the subject of thepresent letter.
Digitizedfb
yGoogle
THE BISHOP’S ANSWER.
u The Bishop of ———, is obliged to Mn Sharp for
the offer of his Prints, but desires to he excused fiom
accepting them. They are fine engravings, and he yi^hes
Mr. Sharp shewed as much judgment in hi§ religious
opinion as skill in his profession. -----:
— jdouse, May
30th, 1804.” ^
To such a conduct Mr. Sharp thinks it proper to add this
observation, that a Bishop had a serious duty to perform,
which was to let his judgment be founded on the truth,
and nothing but the truth. As the Bishop had the Boot,
containing a hundred pages, only one day, no man of rea­
son can feel either his reproof or censure, if he yould not
give himself time to examine. If any sensation could
at all operate on the mind of Mr. Sharp, it could only be
that of pity, to see a dignitary of the church so disgrace
himself as a man; for there are persons in very humble
stations of life, who would be ashamed of such rudeness f
and he still wishes this Bishop may at last feel it a duty
to set a pattern of humility. From his haying not paid a
due respect to his high station, bis name is omitted. ^
D ear M iss T ow nley, May the *lTthx 1804.
You are ordered to put rp print the letter I
sent you the 24th, on the Fast, and the letter I
sent you in answer to the two letters you sent me,
that came from Leeds. I am ordered to send you
some of the contents of the two letters I received
together; the one in derisipn, that men may sec
the answer given to men, that can so boldly trifle
with the Lord. I shall here give you the letter.
M a d a m , London, May the }Jl, 1804.
“ I suppose you will he greatly surprised at the
receipt oj this.— I am a petson who has read many of
your publications as well as others in connexion with
you, I remark in a book intituled, an Epistle to the
Chancellors of Oxford and Cambridge>
—it is theresaid
in page the 8//;, amongst other things, you can and
Digitized by Google
{ 31 )
have told and revealed secret thoughts and conversa­
tions of persons, which was acknowledged to be true
by Mr. Eastelaie, of Exeter, andbefote seven others.
Notv; Madam, a gentleman and myself would gladly
become converts to your doctrine, if you can convince
'us by some extraordinary proof of your mission from
‘
God to us, by answering this letter without the gen­
tleman or myself giving you any directions of our
Mantes or places of abode. A letter to either of us
•will be received with thanks.—Speedy answer will be
Esteemed a favour
. A t the receipt of this letter my heart burned with
indignation, to think that man could so presump­
tuously trifle with the Lord, to think he would an­
swer such impertinent enquiries, which made me
expect no answer, as you saw in my letter. But
now la m ordered to put the letter in print, and the
answer to it, with some lines of the other letter,
that men may see the different answers, and knouf
that the Lord will not be mocked by man:
The Letter from the Friends, in part:
*c J oanna,
“ Oh, our dear sister! glory and honour and ^
tower be ascribed to Him that sttteth upon the Throne,
nd unto the Lambfor ever and ever, who by you has
Subdued and sealed thefinal doom of our great adver­
sary the Devil, atid thrown open the gates of glory
Sind eternal life and happiness to a lost and sinful
w o r l d '
As these two letters came together, so the an­
swers are placed one after the other. So all must be
published as I hare sent them to you.
(Signed,) J oanna So u th cott;
D ear M iss T ow nley, May the 0,6th, 1804.
W hen I saw the letter you sent me, of the two
men that wrote to know if I could find out their
Digitized by L , o o Q L e
< 32 i
names and places of abode, without their directions*
as I had found out what was in Mr. Eastlake’s heart
concerning me, this insolence I, did not know the
Lord would Condescend to give any answer to* as it
is mocking and trifling with the Lord; yet the Lord
condescended to answer it to me, though not to
them.—That this was a shadow of what the sub­
stance would follow. For men will want to have
idle curiosity gratified—“ As I have told thee, all
must come to the likeness of my Gospel; and the
manner men acted with me they will now act with
thee ; and know, when they mocked me, and smote
me, they said in derision. Prophesy who it is that
smiteth thee; and when they sent me to Herod they
wanted to see my miracles; when on the cross the
thief in like manner derided m e; and the people
said, let him come down from the cross, and we will
believe him. But none of this impertinence in man
was answered by- m e ; for if they did not believe,
by what was done before, they would not believe
by any miracles then; but say, as they hadsaid be­
fore, it was miracles from the devil, who had given
me the power; therefore I gave up without answer­
ing them a word. And now I am in the Spirit to
thee, their mocking is the same; but if thy writings
were from the devil, this is a curiosity he might And
out, as his agents are every where. But as thy
writings are from m e, ther..l iv in g L ord, such im- .
pertinent enquiry I shall never answer; for if all the
truths that are in thy writings, and the wondrous
manner all his brought round, will not convince
them, I shall not answer this insolence of men, to
convince them any other way ; but to tell them to
appear before my judgment seat, and then their in­
solence will be answered, when my angels come to
•atrike the death warrant unto them, as it did to the
two men that said thou wast the deyil, and they
would go to Leeds to see thee; and to the devil I
sent them both, by a sudden stroke of death.—*
Digitized by L i O O Q L e
And let this be a warning to m en: Shall man con­
tend with his Maker, and direct me the way I shall
prove my visitation to thee ? The thing of Eastlake
was for a convincing proof to thee, to know, in an
extraordinary manner, I was come to visit thee;
and as there was no appearance at that time, of
what 1 told thee was hastening on, I permitted that
thing to happen in the meeting, to convince them I
was come to warn thee of what was hastening on,
as I warned thee of what was in their hearts and
minds concerning thee, that thou mighteSt have
some clear assurance ofmy visitation unto thee. But
that did not convince them, though they confessed
the truth was told thee; yet they said, that truth
came from the devil. And just the same would
men say now, if I should answer the impertinent en­
quiry of these men.—Shall I answer ? I know them
not; let them depart from me as workers of iniquity!
Eastlake I know, and his heart and soul is known
to me ; and though I reprbved him I loved him ;
but these men, whose hearts are not mine, must go
to their masters for their names ; for their hearts
are departed from m e, as workers of iniquity.
Therefore my answer is, I know them not.—And I
hear the language of thy heart: My soul come not
thou into their secrets; so they aDd their names may
perish together.
Can man so boldly trifle with his God, / o
To ask where Satan takes up his abode,
In every heart where he doth reign and rule,
I say the writer must judge thee a fool;
If thou hadst power, to answer such a man.
Bring forth my Gospel and mv ways discern.
So of their folly I shall end it here:
To tempt the Lord their God let men beware;
Because such men 1 never meant to know,
And at my Coming they will find it so—
And this to Turner I do bid thee send.
( 33 ) t t f t f
And now I’ll come to answer for thy friends:
Their names and natures arc well known to me;
And at ifty,Coming they their name will see
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
Enroll'd in glory with their Lord to reign.
In different answers I shall turn to men.
As different conduct in them doth appear:
So different answers they shall know and hear.
For those that mock my Spirit now in thee,
They all shall know the same they’re mocking me;
But those that do mv Spirit here approve,
They in the end shall see my perfect love.
So now in peace their souls they may jrossess*
Because thv Trial l shall bring* it first,
And then the other things will surely burst
For I shall never act like men,
To let my judgments first come on
Before men's judgment doth appear,
For to condemn or for to clear;
And then behind they’ll find my hand,
To bring my judgments on the L and;
If men in fun' now appear,
They'll find my hand m fury here;
And if they careless now do sleep,
1 say, like Bike, they’ll howl and weep*.
But if with prudence men appear,
And say, the whole well now see clear;
Before ourjudgment wc can draw,
The truth of all we'll see and know.
Then l shall act the same with man,
And they’ll not feel my lieavv baud;
Because, as men deal now with thee*
The likeness all shall see in ME,
To deal the same with every man—
And here’s the warning to your I^and.
For now to all I’ll answer here,
As thou and Townley do appear!
* In November, 179*3, 1 dreamt that some straw had caught fire,
and that the shop below was in Baines.—Then 1 awoke with the
hurry of my dream and thought I would go down stairs, to sec if tin
servants had left a candle burning below, but being very sleepy I
determined to consider it only as a dream, and go to sleep again. Yet
1 thought 1 would wait and see; hut it struck deeply upon me I
should he too late, and the house would be burnt; so l got out of
bed, and went to the top of the stairs, and l smelt asm oke; for the
candles were falling down, they being on fire. T he noise made nie
believe they might he bricks hi the chimney. I then called up Mr.
Bike and said, “ the house was on fire," life said, “ I was dreaming,
for he knew better;" but he was at last convinced of the truth, which
made ban rise, and while I was returning to put on mv clothes, lie
came down stairs, and made a most hideous noise aud howling, and
was almost sufibcated, I quickly went to the maid servants, and was
obliged to shake them, and when they awoke they told me, “ I wat
dreaming;" one was in a passion; but I forced them out ofljcd, and
then 1 went down stairs and was almost suffocated in ]>a$sing to the
street. After Mr. Pike had made his noise and cried “ fire," I cried
“ fire," and went as tin- a,s the Guildhall to alarm the people.—Set
further pm ticulars in p. ;27, Warning to the World.’'
( 34 )
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
For thou to be shut up from man,
And in thy stead dothTownley stand,
To send all letters in her name,
Though from thy hand they surely came 5
But in thy hand there none arc sent,
Nor yet tny name unto a friend;
But now tlirough her the whole is given:
And so they'd find the God of heaven •
Hath given the whole the same through the*,
Though thy hand-writing none do see;
Nor doth my Name to men appear.
T he copies first thou send’st to her,
And then she sends them in her name;
And perfect so I say ’tis done, .
In every likeness come from me,
As thou thy letters send’st to she.
For so thou ’st done all heretofore,
Perfect as Townlcy doth appear
Placed in thy stead to act tor thee.
And perfect so thou’st done for me,
T he same as Townlcy doth appear
T o act for thee, I say once more,
In perfect likeness all hath been,
Thou didst act for me, as she is seen
Now in thy stead to act for thee,
Which in the end they all sliall see.
It is the likeness to compare-
That I have plac'd these shadows here,
T o shew you plain the way it came,
*Tis but taller thou sign’st thy name ;
And so thy letters thou dost send
Unto my handmaid and my friend;
Then who shall pluck my friend from me ?
H er murderers men must surely be,
If they would pluck her from my hand;
Worse than the serpent men must stand
To rob her soul from every blils;
And where's the man can answer this,
To ssy that in her stead they’ll stand,
If she’ll give up thv written hand,
And in thy stead not to appear ?
Will man presumptuous answer here,
T hat he'll protect her from all harm,
If it be the Lord that hc;e doth warn?
W ho call’d her foith my friend to be ?
W ill men a Judas make of she,
H er faithful trust for to betray ? ,
I ask mankind what they can say.
If she like Judas should appear,
T o say her guilt she could not bear?
Then answer me, presumptuous man,
W ho e'er doth wUu to stop her hand,
That she her office may’ut go through,
I’ll prove the serpent strong in you;
£ *
2
/
Digitized by Google
( a6 }
That wish to have her now draw hack;
y A murderer s heart in man must breaks
Because her life you’d murder here,
In agonies she could not bear* *
So here’s an answer deep for man
That doth this woman here condemn-
Here, my dear Miss Townley, you see how strict
pfor the command is given you to stand faithful, and
® how severe the threatenings against any that persuade
you to act faithless. So I trust you will stand, as I
have stood, in the strength of the Lord, and the
power of his might, in opposition to men and de­
vils, putting on the whole armour of God to with­
stand, the fiery darts of the devil: for cursed is he
that putteth his hand to the plough and draweth
back. But this caution I need not give you, as I
know the strength of your faith, and the goodness
of your heart. The former part of this letter was
in answer to two letters sent me, that you re­
ceived for me ; one an anonymous letter that was so
, ignorant and impudent, to think they cojuld jest
with God as they could jest with m an; the other
from my friends who are longing for the coming of
Christ. Here you see the different answers. T he
stroke endeth with one, where the other, answer
beginneth. I must conclude, with my earnest
prayers for you, spiritual and temporal, that the
Lord will restore your health, and strengthen your
faith to stand the trial you are called to go through.
I remain, with the greatest respect,
Your sincere friend,
(Signed,) J o a n n a S o u t h c o t t .
D e a r M i s s T o w n l e y ,
I shall now give you a communication that was
given me, to assign the reasons why I was ordered
to be concealed from the world ; that if men seek me,
they arc not to find me, till they, have assembled to­
gether ; all those that are chosen to be labourers
1
Digitized by Google
( 37 )
with me in the Lord’s vineyard; because 1 sought
man in the bitterness of my soul, and they refused
to see or hear me. This, you will see explained in
the following communication :—
For so I say 1 11 now foil man,
For now my mind I will reveal,
And tell thee why I do conceal
Thy place and person to mankind;
And thou the former call to mind,
I said like Putt 1 should apnear * ;
And perfect so I'm acting nere.
When I invited^men said nay: .
Thy face they allrefire’d to see;
Thy letters they refus'd to hear;
Thou sought’st their*face in tears and prayer,
And yet thy face' they would not see,
Nor take one single thought of thee;
When griefand sorrow thee oppress’d,
They'd never calm tliy grief to rest;
If Satan led thee by the hand,
Then in his fetters thou must stand.
And sink thy soul in deepest woe:
In vain to man thou’st often gone,
* Or else in vain thou there didst send;
For thou no answer could’st obtain.
And now I’ll turn it back on man,
And say my answer is the same;
You would not see her in distress,
. Nor give her suffering heart redress,
W hen she in jealousy did fear:
And your advice she'd wish to hear;
But then your answer it was none.
Unto the rock *he did complain;
And I’m her rock who then did hear,
And gave an answer to her prayers.
And now I’ll answer unto man,
Perfect like you I’ve laid my plan:
That you shaU never see her here
Before her friends do all appear,
That I have chosen with her to stand,
And then you all may see her hand;
And for herself she'll ataswer here:
To meet her foes she shall not fear;
Because their wisdom I'll confound.
And prove myself in every sound:
• Parson Putt offered Joanna’s Father a house, which he refused;
and, some time after, Joanna went to him and said, she was cun e
to beg a fevour of him for her father; this he supposed was for the
house: so he immediately said to her,—
4
4When they will they shall have nav/
To those that will not wlten they may,
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
*
♦
That I theLonsxrf heaven andea**h
Have spoken by hex, as shesaith,
Therefore the shadows I’ve turn'tfbacfc,
T o act with man as man did act,
In former Years l say,' to she,
And perfect so the end shall be;
For now the shadows are begun :
I have order’d her to, dfcal with m an,,
As the)' before did deal with she.
The type goeth deep if man can see :
Here Is a shadow of the end *
,
For l said, this Year should bend.
Because 1 plac'd it with the last; ’
When I myself iu glory burst,.
I then shall hide myself like thee, .
That now refuse to come to me./
For then I say they'll come too late: -
* 1 know them not, the door is shut;
Then they may seek and wish to find.
But I shall further tell my mind:
If men seek thee, thou wiU appear,
With all thy friends tbe truth to dear*
And so l say I'll come with mine:
But then my foes my looks will find.
If they aftront-Townley in thy stead,
I know 'twill make thy heart to bleed.
To think shesuflers here for tbee;
And then thy blacken'd looks they'll see*
In nought but ai}ger to appear;
For no mau's person thou wilt fear,
But with contempt treat every man,
If they thy friena do now condemn
Because thou’lt say it is for thee,
That she ismock'daswell as for me;
And this with anger thou'lt resent;
The shadow’s deep: let man repent;
For every wajy I’ve shewn the end:
By placing Townley as a friend,
To stand the trialfirst with mciv
Before thy friends together come. .
Then thou in person wilt appear.
And all thy friends thou'lt welcome there ;
And perfect so the end will b e :
For in thy Trial men will see. t .
How every shadow's f arried.on, ’- ;
To shew my Spirit here as come* ,
In wordsand power unto thee., .
And 'tis by friends my work must be,
I tell you, carried on bv men,
If that my kingdom they will win. t
But first the Woman must appear, '
To crown my head, man's guilt to clear*
Because my blood was shed by man;
Then uow discern her written hand,
( 38 )
r
Digitized by oogle
X $9 )
And how my Bible doth appear.
That it is Woman you compare,
t Unto my.church thakstands for all.
! 1- Thfen all these shadows now command ;
. g : , As to a Woman all is plac'd,
Then the creation so must burst,
As I at first did it design l ,! i 1
And now to man I’ve told my mind.
Why all my Bible so doth stand:
That iu the end you may command,
As I design'd it at the first.
All through my Bible so ’tis plac'd,
T o prove my church from her must be,
When men are made joint heirs with W£;
For that's the way my church shall stand,
The spirit and the bride command.
. So let the learned answer here,
Why all my Bible doth appear
So highly in the Woman's name;
And then I’ll answer thee again?
And this to Foley she must send,
And put in print the lines thou’&
t penn'd*
For in the end mankind will see
The mysteries of this year to be
The likeness of the setting sun
When I do bring the night ofi man,
, That like their sleep wifipass away;
But then I'h bring a glorious day
Unto my faithful followers here,
That for my coming do appear—
And like thy Psalm I'll answer here:
“ The dawn of each returning day,
Fresh beams of knowledge brings,
And from the dark returns of night
Divine instruction springs”
And so I tell thee all will be divine,
And in my glorious kingdom they shall shine,
When 1 have.claim'd the kingdoms for my own,
And all the powers of darkness to unthrone.
The verse above quoted is the words of Dfcvid,
that come daily in my mind, as every day bringeth
fresh wisdom from divipe directions to me, so that I
may end with the words of David.
How wondrous are thy works O Lord,,.r ■ • l
How deep are thy decide?! . ...
Thv secret tracks in wisdom he, »
5«o striped sinner secw*r~
Adieu, qdieu, my dear Miss lownley,
\
Digitized by Google
DEAR MISS TOWKJiEY, "
On Sunday1Evening after I had‘sent you the
Communication, I sat meditating to mySellon the
words spoken to me in 17g4. . , t.
’Tis I that holds thee by the hand, ,. ^ -yV
And will not let thee go , u
t , r
Till stcdfastly by faith thou’lt stand, ' r
And all my goodness know.
( 4® )
To these words I was answered, ;
L
Then now thy hand I still shall hold il
Until thou knowcst me whole, 1
And when my love I do unfold ’ r lf"
'
. 1 shall receive thy soul
T o realms of glory and o f bliss,
In heaven’s high courts above,
Where thou in Jov shall evdr refct T
f
And taste my pcrlect love.
T hat here below thou cans’t not know,
Whilst Satau’s Power do reign j ’ ^ *
For deeper mysteries 1 shall shew, ■■*
And now the whole explain.
Jf strong my Love you here did prove,' • ' -
Your Enemy would come 1
And say, “ that ye were worse than Hef
*
* Though I did" him condemn;— ' 1 —
4( But had I shewn such Love to him,
4t As doth for man appear,'
4* He never would my ways condemn’d.’’— **f
For now I’ll tell thee here,
W hen men below mv Love do know
. In all it’s power to shine,
A heavenly Joy they then will know, r
And then that Joy tbcy'll find
Daily to spring in every thing,
. ^ In beauty to appear—
For then, I sav, one heart and mind i j ;~
Will in you all be here, , ^
; And Joys below in all will flow,
As now it Hows above.'
In Realms of Glory none can go
T o interrupt my Love; ! T’ •
But here bclow^ I well do know, ( *
Satan stands between ; , -
And here your Joys catMievcr flow, 1
Till 1 do all redeem , , .t
From Satan's hand, and free my Land +
• *- ^*
From every Serpent here;
. . „ , And then like .saints you all may stand," 1
Like angels to appear \ ' '
Digitized by Google
Enthron'd abovethey see ray Love,
And 10 shall men below*
The Cause for men til surely mot%
And they shall find it so;
Because for Men 1 now will stand*
As they do stand for m e;
And they shall earn the promis'dLand,
Their advocate 111 be.
The promis'd Land you mustcommand*
What I did say at first,
A ll that was good Tmade for tnaur,
And so it now shall burst
Let men go on assume began
T o bring my Kingdom neaiv
Then III go on to work with men*
In power for to ap
And thenbelow mi
( 41 )
e A ^ y
Iwill know
My true and perfect Love;
For Satan's bounds he now shall know:
Like Adam he must move$
Because that he is follen, I see,
As Adam foil at first
Beyond his bounds he now isfoUndp
And so I say he's cast;
For I’ll not spare the Serpent here,
As I did not spare man.
My words and promise I shall dear-*
Thy Sealed Book shall stand,
Tin unaware I do appear
To cEaraTEe Rebel aown;
Because hiifhll, 1 tell you all,
Like Adam now he’s found!
And worse than he must surely be,
For Adam did repent; ^
Bat Satan’s foiy now I see^
His mind is fully bent
In rage to swell, with pride of Hell
His fury doth appear;
And now m man I dolmOw well,
What flames he’ll kindle here;
In every man, where he can come;
My Kingdom to prevent
Therefore my judgments must go’on, ***
Till I in sunder rend
The veil from Men to shew them plain
That Satan’s friends they be.
For it b Satan work’d in men
T o make them foes to thee.
But simple men, their thoughts are in vaiti,
Their God they do not know.
My Kingdom they could ne’er obtain;
My Bible proves it so.
This way must come, be it k
n
o
w
nto man,
And see my Bible clear:
F
'TW
frrv -
1
Digitized by Google
Against the Woman Satan stands,
As so doth now appear.
Then know the end must here be come*
And altogether weigh $ '
For 1 shall answer simple men, .
And boldly to them say
The Jews at first on me did burst.
By Satan’s artful hand $
The rage of Hell in them was plac'd,
And so they nail'd my Hands,
I say, and Feet,, the wounds went deep.
And then they fix'd the Spear $
And now in Spirit 1 am come,
Men do the same appear;
In rage I see mankind to be,
In fury for to bum—
Impossible isjudg'd by thee: '
And can men so become ?
What men so blind, can Satan find.
When Truths are all so clear ?
To prove from Heaven is every sound
Can Satan blind them here ?
I tell thee so he now will do,
And thou wilt see it clear.—
Unto the press these words must go.
For I shall answer here;
What rage doth flow, I well do know,
To see tne woman stand
In true obedience now by me,
For to support thy hand. * .
Then they’d prevent with one consent,
If they could find a way;
But Satan's veil from some I'll rend,
Alike they will not see.
For some are mine, their hearts I’lljoin,
I tell thee, with the rest
That in my Vineyard now are come—
The eleventh hour doth burst,
To hire men here, thatwill appear,
And in my vineyard go;
For their reward they now shall gain
If they my work will do.
For now to all I loud do call,
My Kingdom is at hand}
And them that will it now obtain
^Must in my Labour stand.
For I'll go on to ask of man
In conscience to appear.
If they my Kingdom think to gain,
And never seek it here ?
Or shall it come to you, vain men,
That do it now oppose ?
N o : to my Gospel you must come,—
And know Til cast out those
1
Digitized by Google
That do offend against my friends,
That workers are with me.
Or do you judge that I shall come
Before your hearts I see;
To wish me here ? shall I a
p
p
e
a
r
To men that don't regard
My dying Love, that so did prove
To bring their fiill reward ?
As at that time I knew mankind
Did suffer for my sake:
And now's the time, mankind shall find,
My Love to Man shall break ;
Upon such men as they were then.
All mocked at the first;
And now the same it is in man-*-*
Mens mockeiy so doth burst
Then now see plain, ye sons of men.
Who must my Kingdom have;
You cannot judge your God sohlind,
My Kingdom e’er to give
Unto such men as mock my N ame,
Nor,wish my Kingdom near.
Or could you judg£ before you’re tried
1 ever should appear >
No: men, you are blind you all will find,
I’ll never come that way;
To prove yodr hearts is first my mind,
My welcome for to see.—
But here within thou dost begin
To say men’s words thou dost know—
They wish for me, will thousands say,
But never wish it so,
At first to come in Spirit strong
Unto the Woman here,
To plead the Prombe in the Fall,
My Fathers words to clear.
Then sure in man there is no plan
That 1can man redeem;
But let my Coat be known to them
It was without a Seam.
So if they tear and rend it here
My Coat cannot be whole,
To say I died the Fall to clear,
And make the Serpent fall.
So here let man discern thy hand,
And answer for the Fall;
And then by thee they all must stand
To keep my Garments whole;
Or else they’ll rend with one consent
My Kingdom from them all.
If wdth the Serpent now they stand.
Then with him they shall falL
( 43 )
/'*+
**. /S'Di
*
+
*
•,rV
F 2
Digitized by
( 44 )
THE JEZEBEL IN THE.REVELATIONS.
Saturday M orning, June l i d , 1804.
I dreamt, in the night, that my brother**
son that is dead, was alive; I thought the Lord said
to me, I was to kill the child, as Abraham was to
kill Isaac. I thought I could not kill him any other
way than by taking him and twisting him round the
neck; I thought die child was then dressed up to
be roasted; it then seemed the child began to go into
convulsion fits, and was in such agonies, as my
heart ached to see him. I said I hoped I had not
hurt the bone of his neck, that he might come to
life again. And then I thought I travelled on, and
saw a woman, sitting on a gate post, railing to ano­
ther woman against me, and told the woman she
must come to her for religion. I thought I gave the
woman a push, and pushed her off the gate; and the
other woman was disputing strong for roe. I then
thought a number of other women came, that looked
like witches, and one looked me strong in the face,
and said in derision, are you the Saviour, then I
will go on my knees in the mud pit ? which she did.
I said no, I was not the Saviour, but Christ was
come in the Spirit to me to bring in the Redemp­
tion of Man. I thought one woman mocked me,
and said, I see yours is a money business, and I
will give you half a guinea. I told her 1 despised
her money, and she should put it in her.pocket. She
said, so she would; for she had not half guineas so
plenty ; and another woman took out a parcel of half
guineas that were brass and shewed me, and said she
had not half guineas so plenty neither. I said no,
and what you have are not good.
THE A
NSW
ERO
F THE SPIR
IT.
‘‘.Now,Joanna,remember this dreamlbrought thee
before Roley’s letter camej for she is the Jezebel
Digitized by Google
3L
( ** )
i/u./>*■}*sy ^ 't*
**y -~$&~
th at sat upon the post, and told the people to come
to her as a Prophetess, full of lying wonders: for
the g i f t op healing is not yet come. But let not
Foley be grieved because he seduced my people to
believe that woman a prophetess, for she is not;
b u t I permitted them to find out the cheat, that they
may see the depth of Satan’s arts. But as they spoke
against her, I will put no other burden upon them,
b u t that which they have already; hold fast till I '
come, and keep my words unto the end, then will l
Eve them power over nations■ The last chapter of
siah let ihem weigh deep; for now is coming the '/'■***
e n d ; Zion that travaileth to be delivered, shall be
delivered, for I have brought to the womb, and I.
Will not shut it. Let not thyheart grieve nor tremble,
fearing they have done wrong; for I permitted this
thing to be, to shew them the difference between
Satan s working and m in e . I kept silence concern-'
ing the woman, that they might go on, to find out
the cheat, and see where the Jezebel lay, that they
have so often condemned in thee. Now let them see.
the different working, me with thee, and Satan
with her. To ease thy fear, consider, call mv"
words to thy remembrance, when thou weit so.
much afraid they would do wrong through ignorance ;*
know, I told thee, in the time of ignorance God
winked at i t ; and what errors they did through ig­
norance should be righted, for I would not lay thpm
to their charge; neither do I lay this to their charge,
though they pheed her as a prophetess with thee :
and there is the Stone that is fallen out of thy Ring;’
'
for they will no longer let her stand as a prophetess"
•
with thee; for she is the Jezebel mentioned in the •
2d chapter of the Revelations, 20th verse. She call- ’
ed herself a prophetess to teach and to seduce my ’
servants to commit fornication, and to eat things
sacrificed unto idols; and now I give her space.tq
repent of her fornication ; and if she repents not,
I whl cast her into a bed with them that commifi
Digitized by G o o g l e
thisadultery with her, and kill her with death; and the'
cures she hath done shall return upon them with
double force. For here Satan came as an angel of
li 'ht. pretending he could not cure the disorders of
them that were wicked. Here they commit fornica-
tio i with my v. ords, and in my name was this pro­
fessed to be; therefore it was I that worked in the
hearts of my servants to go unto her, to see what
excuses she would plead, that she could not cure
them, whom my soul loveth ; for I have already
toldihee, and 1 now tell thee again, Hirst and his
family are chosen servants of m ne. Now let Hirst
remember what I said concerning him, how Satan
delighted to punish him ; but in the end he should
delight to triumph over him; and now let his de­
light begin, faithfully to declare the cheat of thft
woman, whom Satan has raised up in opposition a-
gainst m e , and let him remember the truth of thee;
when I toldtheethe death of Foley’s child, thou didst
faithfully read it to him, and told him to copy it
out, beiore thou receivedest Foley’s answer, to know
whether the child would die or live: let him re­
member all thy upright dealings, how thou never
used one art to deceive any man ; but if jealousies-
alarmed thee, thou spakest freely; if Satan attacked
thee, thou didst shew in thy looks and told it; so that
he must know in thee there is no deceit. Now let
him write the particulars of the woman unto thee,
andlwill answer theeagain; for there isthe Stone they
have placed in tl.y King, that now shall fall out from
thy name, and the naked truth shall now appear;
the Cures she did by Satan's arts were those which
Satan s power afflicted, and there he gave her power
to cure. “ And now I shall tell you the sense of the
Ring, that you may understand what you read.
Mr. Abbott, one of the jury-men, gave me a very
pretty Gold King, set with small blue Stones all
round it, but when the Midnight Hour broke in
upon me, of the Spirit of the Lord, what he would
( 46 )
Digitized by Google
do upon the earth, throwing my hands, which I
could not restrain, I. beat out one of the Stones,
which I was very sorry to see in the morning, fear­
ing it was a type of his death, or some of the others.
This I have often pondered in my heart, as it was
never explained to me till npw; and now it is deeply
said to me, if my Prophecies had been from the
Devil as her lying wonders of healing were, I
should soon be discovered by the Letters I put in
the hands of the Ministers: as the Woman was
discovered by Mr. Hirst’s going to her with his
daughter, and so would the ..religious ministers
have found it a*delusion that came against n.e ; for
if it had not been of God it would not have come
to pass, for the arts of the Devil can never last long.—
And now it shall be fatal for that woman if she adul­
terates my Name with the lying wonders done by
the Devil:
And there they shall seethe Jezebel appear.
So now the name's dropt out from me,
« The Jezebel, they all shall see.
Doth in that woman strong appear,
And she is an adulterer,
To say she does it in my Name,
Til put her confidence to shame;
For there the witches all did come,
Thinking rav honour to blaspheme;
That miracles they wrought by me,
But then my servant she did see,
By Satan's arts she well did know,
She could not heal who was his foe;
Because to m e h e is a frien d ,
And so I'll prove him in the end:
And down the Jezebel shall fall.
Thou strikest the blow I tell them all.
Before the Letter ere did come,
I shew'd the woman in thy dream,
That did the people so ensnare,
To tell them all to come to her;
But so the other woman stood,
To see her arts they were not good;
For all the wonders she did tefi,
I tell you plain, come all from hell;
And in the mud pit they may fall,
For that’s the way she cur’d them all;
With muddy hharts, all black within,
That had from Satan fek the $ting ..
( 47 )
Digitized by L j O O Q i e
( <• ) •
O f the di*orders she did cure :
But now I tell them to take care,
Or in the mud pit they will fid),
That now are cur'd by arte from hell.
Their conscience be doth care the sam^
They may not hear their Saviours name.
And*so this mockery all do come,
For Satan’s cures to me are known,
The way that he their wounds doth heal,
That they another day will feel,
More fatal than k was before^—
And let thv shoulder to appear,
How quickly Brown dry'a up the first
And after that thy pain did buret
In agonies, thou could’st not bear,
Until that Deem to thee appear'd,
And then thou told’st her of thy pain,
And fear'd thy shoulder was rotting then,
And that thy arm thou would’st have lost,
For where’sthe salve that Brown did boast,
That she did heal tby wound so soon ?
Unto the nation this must corner
Then in their blood they are healing all,
The Woman's Wonders now do fall,
1 tell you plain, throughout your land,
Thcyrc healing by an artful hand;
\ To heal their consciences all the same,
But some like thee they'll find the flame.
So let the Parable appear,
And then again I'll auswer here.
The Parable was many years ago. I had some*
thing gathering in my shoulder, and I could not
' bear my stays to rub against it. Mrs. Brown said
she had an excellent healing salve that I should put
to it and it would- cure me, which she put for me,
and soon healed up the wound; but soon after I was
in such pain in my shoulder, that I thought my arm
was rotting off. I told It to Mrs. Deem, and also,
how my shoulder was at first, what salve I had put
of Mrs. Brown’s, that was such beautiful healing
salve. Mrs. Deem cried, yes; but it was not fit for
your shoulder, for you have a gathering within, and
that corruption must be drawn out, and the
wpund opened afresh before your shoulder can be
healed, or else you would lose your arm as you said.
Now if you will put the salve that 1 will give you,
to gather the wound' and draw out the corruption,
Digitized b
yGoogle
then Mrs. Brown’s healing salve may be of use to
heal it j but your wound must be opened afresh, if
youwill keep your arm or perhaps your life. I took
Mrs. Deem’s advice, and confess the salve she gave
racked me with pain before the place was gathered
and broke; but I knew I must suffer that or suffer
my arm to be cut off, and shoulder too; but after
the wound broke, it was astonishing to see the cor­
ruption that was there, which was first drawn out
by Mrs. Deem’s salve, and then Mrs. Brown’s heal­
ing salve was of use, as Mrs. Deem had told me.—
•
THE ANSWER OF THE SPIRIT.
“ And now, Joanna, I’ll bring the Parable to the
whole nation, to the Jezebel, toher lovers, and to thee.
The Jezebel is the woman that is now healing the
wounds of mankind by the arts of the Devil,under a
profession of religion in my name. Her Lovers and
herAdulterers aretheClergy throughout theland.who
love to heal the nation in their sins and their blood,
without searching their wounds to the bottom ; they
adulterate my Bible as an adulterous man would
commit fornication with an adulterous woman; and .
they heal the wound that is in man, without draw­
ing out the corruption that is from the Devil: but
I tell thee, his corruption must be first drawn off,
and his stinking wound must be first destroyed ; then
the Jezebel’s words may be right to tell them to go
home and repent of their sins; for if Satan comes
in arts to appear like me, he cometli to use some of
mywords and ways. And now I shall come to her
Adulterers and they that commit fornication with
her: it is the Clergy; for they are healing the nation
as the woman is healing the sick, binding them up,
as Brown would thy wound, which had they power
to accomplish through the land, they would soon
find .the nation in a much worse situation titan thy
( *9 )
Digitized by G o o g l e
arm was by Brown’s healing salve; for perfect so
they are trying now to heal the nation to their utter
ruin and destruction; and if -they do not repent of
their fornications, I shall destroy them all; for they
are healing the souls of men by their lying wonders,
to say the root of evil must never be drawn out and
destroyed, but—
Held up as it has always been,
But now's the time I say with Deem:
Their Healing Plaister will not do,
Though that's the way they write to you,
To heal your every wound the same;
And toon your hearts they’ll set on flame,
Worse than thy shoulder {lid appear^
So of their Healing Salve take care;
But say the evil out you’ll draw;
The root of evil you do know
Is gathering fast, and it must break—
The root of evil now 1 speak
Causes all the rottenness within;
And now like Brown you do begin
To heal him up like George’s Chair
That be may set and rankle there.
And as the Shepherds now are come,
To bring the Healing Salve to man;
The Comer Chair from them to move,
The arts of Satan they do love;
To let them set within their breasts,
Then soon they’ll find his sting to burs^
And his adultery to appear,
’That with the Dream I’ll now compare;
For like that woman is your land,
They are all defil’d as now they stand;
Just like that woman then with child,
By Satan’s arts mankind is foil'd;
For he has got them in a snare
To adulterate my Bible here;
That he may dig the pit for all,
And so the nation he’d make fail,
If I’d not warn'd thee by the Dream,
When in the bed thousee’st m e plain.
T o say the evil fruit must fall,
And therefore now I tell you all,
The evil fruit I'll take away,
And shew the grave where it doth 1ayf
That Satan's digging now for man,
Because at first he laid his plan,
( 50 )
• George’s Chair is a man at Leeds, who said he would ghe fk*
Devil a corner chair in his heart to keep him at his ease.
Digitized by C.ooQle
( )
A simple woman to defile,
s And so that way she was with child,
That did a murderer then become,
lie digg’d a grave then deep for man j
And now he s digging it again.
Thinking the woman shall be slain*
And all her offspring tor to die—
Now my Express 1 bid it fly,
Because *twas l that work’d in she, *
And so the same I work’d in thee;
For this Express must hasty go,
And mark what Foley he did do
When Carpenter was griev’d the same,
That night he set their hearts in flame,
With love and gratitude to turn,
And so the same their hearts shall burn,
In love and gratitude to me
When my Express they all do see,
That I’m the Lord that wakes so soon,
To cast the Serpent in her room,
And now the Woman I will free,
Though she’s in grief, bow’d down by MJtj
Because for man her heart docs feel,
But know, that I am in her still;
Or else this love would not appear,
Their every sufferings for to share—
And now in ha«te this all must go,
For Townley's heart I work’d it so,
To have the letter go with speed,
1 knew thy heart how it did bleed,
To think thy friends were compass'd round
With mysteries that could not be found,
By any wisdom was in them;
For now the crooked paths arc come,
That they themselves cannot make straight,
Before I bring the truth to light.’
So now the words I’ll end then! here,
Another day .1 shall appear,
The every mystery to explain,
Why the Express must come to men.
That are the servants of the Txnd,
Unhidden lies my written word,
"That thou another day shalt find,
How my Express comes to mankind
So end the letter, send it hastily, they must not
stop day nor night, till the letter comes to Fo­
ley’s hand,”
This Letter was sent off by express, between
three and four o’clock, Saturday, June 23, 1804.
G 2
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
( 52 )
MISS TOWNLEY TO MR. SHARP.
Saturday Afternoon, June 23d, 1804.
This morning, when Joanna awoke, she asked
Mrs. Underwood, if she heard any one call T om ?
Underwood said no. Joanna said, it called aloud
and waked her. She then told her dreams, which
are in the other letter ; she being told the night be­
fore, that the Lord would clear up wondrous mys­
teries this day, and feeling no Power of the Spirit
within her, she laid down faint and melancholy in
her bed, and said she could not live without the
S pirit of the L ord was with her: and it did not
seem to be strong upon her, only to tell her to write
her dreams. When we had written them, we receiyed
a letter from the Rev. Mr. Foley, and I shall pen
his words as they are in his letter. “ Last Monday
evening, about eight o'clock, we w
rere most agree­
ably surprized with a visit from our dear friends,
Mr, Mrs. and Miss Hirst, from Leeds; they had
brought their daughter, from what* I had written
to them, and from w'hat they had heard, to take
her to Mrs. Hughes’s in Herefordshire *, in hopes
she might be restored to perfect health, by the Di­
vine Power given by the Lord to that, favoured ser­
vant. They rested themselves one day here, and on
Wednesday last, they set off for Kingsland, accom­
panied'by my wife.; and I do expect them home
this day (Friday) and may, the Lord crowm their
faith and endeavours with full and perfect success,
is my sincere and ardent wish. From what I can
learn of this extraordinary woman, is, that her won­
derful cures seem to be wrought according to the
strength of faith in the persons who come to her:
they that have great faith are soon cured, and they
• A remarkable account of this Woman, pretending to cure dis­
eases by a Divine Tower, lias appeared in the Newspaper*,
Digitized by U o o Q l e
that have small faith receive but small benefit. But
by and by, all these wonderful matters will be per­
fectly cleared up. When Mr. Mrs. and Miss Hirst
return to Leeds, I shall send the communication to
Mr. Turner. (One o'clock, Friday). This mo­
ment our dear friends are returned: and no benefit
whatever has their daughter received; and as far as
they can judge this woman is an abominable im­
postor.—Oh ! what shall we say, or what shall we
think ? may it please the Lord to give us some in­
formation concerning this mysterious matter,through
our dear Joanna, for we are all bewildered and arc
cast down. Mr. Hitst thinks she is not visited by a
Good Spirit, from the observations he has made dur­
ing the visit.”
The answer to Joanna.— “ Now, Joanna, I shall
answer thee : I told thee on the Friday evening, the
night must pass, and on the morning new wonders
would burst; and I awaked thee calling Tom.
( 53 )
And from Tom the thing did come,
The wonders to appear;
And to the world they shall be known,
These wonders 1 snail clear;
Because like thee my people be,
The owls do frighten all,
And try to plnck the fruit from SfE,
But down I say’t shall fall.
For my Express is now gone forth.
That every soul shall know,
T he Jezebel that is of Hell
Doth in that'Woman go;
And there thy Dream thou mav'st see plain.
That thou dost b|ji*h to pen ;
A Woman’s nakedness thoH know
Appeared unto men
That were by thee, thou’st blush’d to see
Her nakedness appear;
And man stood by, beheld thy eye
W ith shame did cover there;
Ami now with shame, 11
1 tell tbv name
'Flic mysteries for to clear;
Thou wilt not pen thy hateful dream,
From Satan it d*l appear;
Became from Hell the whole did swell,
As 1 have told tbec here;
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
Adultery appear’d to thee,
Which made the mau to smile;
The evil then was not in he,
Though her would him beguile ;
But ’twas not so, 1 well do know,
She could not him ensnare,
Because that he as well as thee,
Laugh'd at her folly there;
Though other men to her may come
In her adulterous place;
And try to heal, my Bible steal,
And all my laws disgrace.
It is with shame I do explain
This chapter unto men;
For now this d^y, to thee l say,
They're acting in her plan;
Naked they he, I plain do see,
Ami naked they’d make all!
And so they heal, my Bible steal.
But necitr ckar the Fall;
The ways of men they do go on,
Pretend great cures they do;
But to the purpose let all come,
They’ll find my words are true:
They cure no more than she did there—*
And Hirst's daughter see;
And now, yon Shepherds every where,
You’re acting just like she;
You do pretend to cure the men,
Or women that appear—
By your Religion that is vain
In your adultery here:
You adulterate in every state
My Bible as it doth stand;
And, as the Woman heal’d the Child,
You're healing now the land:
That’s not at all, 1 tell you all,
They gain no more from ye,
Than to Hirst’s daughter there did fall
To gain her cure from she.
So in the dark stands every mark,
As I have said before;
Your wondrous healing will not do*
My Bible must appear.
So my Express is gone with this,
A Warning to Mankind—
You adulterate my every Word
And that you all shall find.
Simplicity was seen in they,
1 ncy went the truth to know;
Because that I who dwell on high,
Work’d in them this to do;
To find the cheat and prove deceit
Pid in her strong appear.
( 54 )
Digitized by Google
They did not say *twas want of faith
Prevented the cure there—
T o try to heal where thieves do steal*
They did not thus go on;
Then honesty in them you see,
And can you blame these men
That do declare what truth is here*
And in that truth abide}
But when the Liar did appear,
They’d not in her confide.
Tojudge that she was warn’d by me
These wonders for to do:
For when, the truth of her was tried*
They found it was not so.
Then they went on as honest men*
Confess'd the truth to see;
That an Impostor she was then,—
And so they would say of thee
When they came down to iudge the sound*
And found deceit was there.
They’d ne’er uphold thy written hand*
But would all condemn thee here.
So now at last the truth doth burst
To prove them upright men:
"Now see my Bible now ’tis plac'd*
The world for to condemn,
That act like she in treachery,
Pretend what cures they do;
Pretend the Sinners they do heal*
When 1 know *tis not so.
And wonders here must strong appear,
If it could be done by man;
No, there’s the silver did appear,
That thou took’st in thy hand,
And said the rust, or yet the dust
Had cover’d to thy view,
And gave the pieces to their hand,
But did not know ftwas true,
Till thou didst try, and then did cry,
This silver is deceit.
I mean to bring it round this way,
And shew thee every cheat
That is in man: the time is come
My Bible I’ll fulfil—
And now, I say, if men go on
Like this adulterer still,
Her doom shall fall upon them all*
And in one bed be come!
You adulterate my Bible all,
And boldly MB condemn;
With infamy I plain do see,
Your Maker you do scorn;
Your Lying Wonders now 1 see*
Is like that Woman come.
\
( 5
5 )
Digitized by L , o o Q l e
Like her you heal, like her you steal.
Your God for to provoke;
But now, ye stubborn sons of men,
I shall turn back the stroke.
Your God you mock, for you know net
In Spirit strong ! am here;
And in my face you all do spit—
^
Your letters, shall appear •
Against you all, when I do eail,
My chosen men to meet—
III strip the cloathing then of all:
And tremble at ray feet;
Because in She your likeness see.
For there’s the cure you make,
You heal the blind in Infamy,
Where Satan's arts do break;
* To wound them first and tlien to.burst
Pretend you've made a cure!
But in the end, you 11 find these man
To feel their wounds much t)wrc;
Than e'er before they did appear
Their wounds will surely break:
This is tlie w
fay, I now do say,
You’re healing all my sheep:
Your God provoke, to bring the strokt
That I've now brought on man;
And by that Jezebel 11
1 prove
That like her you do stand.
Then now appear, your letters clear
That you’ve turn’d back to me:
I’ll prove like Jezebel you are,
Then your repentance sec
Before too late, to meet her fate
Like Jezebel become!! I
Iler Lying Wonders did appear
To frighten upright rneu:
Because iu they no arts 1 see,
Nor none they do contrive;
And as my Bible stands that way
They simply were deceiv'd—
They knew that healing must appear
And so they judg’d ’twas come.
But now the mysteries I shall clear
And tell how’t sliall be done:
W hen men do know my Bible’s true,
And all 1have made good,
They’ll heal the wound that I shall make,
For there the Spirit stood;
And there’t must come, I tdl you, strong
When Prophecies appear;•
( 5« )
• Letters returned by the Clergy with contempt.
Digitized by Google
/'& 5 ^
( 57 )
I said I’d kill and make alive*
Then healing must appear—
W hen I cast down to make the wound
T he Conscience Men must bcal;
And tell them Satan, in the sound, f
Did all their learning foil;
Because that there they must appear
My Bible for to see ;
And know the wise men they must fall-*—
No man shall boast to me
As they've began, 1 tell them plain,
They can’t to me appear.—
Now think upou another dream,
What humble man went there
With thee to go, thou well dost know.
When thou, that sight didst sec;
And then the other man did smile,
And so the end will be;
For my Express, "tbat s now gone forth,
Will many men alarm M!
Therefore, f told thee, night nor clay
They should not stop my hand:
But must go on, I told thee plain,
To bring the Midnight Hour— .
That Foley he might wake like thee
And feel my every power.
And say a God in wisdom stood
To make the mystery clea r,,,
The Jezebel they did allude
Was in the Woman there—
And they'll see plain, *twas not in vain
The journey they did take;
The Midnight Hour will shew MYPQWEiy
How I shall now appear
The Horn to blow, they ail shall know
The Midnight Hour is come !!!
Therefore the tiling I ordered so
Tim way to bring it on:
The Shadoto here dothfirst appear,
The Towns for to alarm—
O h ! what dispatch, they’ll say, is here
That they do not discern ?
The Foe is come, bcjudgdby some—
And fo he's at their door;
The greatest foe that is for man,
Then let their wars appear—
Their sword to draw, for soon they’ll know
He's digging pits for all;
The greatest murderer now is come,
To make your nation fall :
And 50 he'd kill, your blood he’d spill.
If I did not awake,
And my Express, this way fmt forth
The hearts of some to sh&k^
. . . H
Digitized by C j O O Q i e
a
That now do stand then in this land,
As she did then appear;
They are goingout by Hell's command
To meet their murderer there.
But now, whose Fan is in his hand,
I’ll surely purge th is floor,
And trembling make the Rebel stand*
And keep the prisoners here ;
For some I see like her to be,
Going out to meet their doom;
But l shall stop them now this way,
Or Satan in their room ' "
Shall surely fall, I tell you all, •
If they will stand like she.
And tremble now to hear the call,
And judge the words from m e ,
T hat 1 did speak, in fury break.
As m e n so mock’d m y “
n a m e ;
And say#they fear for to appear,
Did we our God blaspheme ?
1 know that some will now begin
That way for to appear—
4
4We judge our God is in the sound,
4
4’Tis tune to tremble here.
* Ndw we sec plain we are but men,
4
4Our B i b l e s d id not tenonp,
4
4This way the Lord would ever come,
4
4We no’er discern’d it so:
4
4So it is said, we are misled,
4
4We ne'er'did undertsand
* That perfect in the Woman’s Form
4
4H e’d come again to Man—
n To free the Law, wc all do know
4
4We judg’d it at that time;
When to the Cross He sure did go—
4
4What folly fill’d our minds?
4
4To judge it then, as simple men,
4
4Wc cannot make it clear: * ‘
* Under the Law, we all do knofcy ’
4
4The Jews do now appear— ,
4
4Under the fall wo do see all
4
4In Adam's guilt to stand. ’*
* Then how can we our Bibles £!ear
4
4 And prove that now we stand?
4
4Can we contrive to say alive
4
4In Christ all surely be?
4
4As then in Adam all did diet 1! _
4
4It cannot beprov d by we:
4
4Then we mayfear the Lord is here
4
4Provok'd in every sound:
4
4And if 'tis Him we mock so hero
4
4In guilt wc shall be found.
4
4 Wc know at last the die is cas^
4
4The worst error is come— r* 1
41 The sin against the Holy Ghosts
4
4W ill not be fo rg iv e n b y H i m *.
( 58 j
Digitized by Google
r 59 )
u Then we may fear for to appear
- 4
4One step further to go,— *
And like the woman trembling there,
1know, will many do—
Then i’ll repent, and will relent
The threatenings I have made!Ii
Though Jezebel, a Type of Hell
1 have like my Shepherds laid,
Because that here they did appear
To mock ME so with scorn!!!
But yet their sins 1 now will clear
That humbly will return,
And say like Paul4
4 we now must full
At our Emanuel's feet,
For the dispatch is gone for all
The Midnight Hour to meet.**
So HI end here and say no more,
But let the night pass through *
Then other wonders will appear
To bring before thy view.
Saturday Night, June 2 3 d , 1 8 0 4 .
FROM MISS TOWNLEY TO MR. SHARP.
Sunday, June 1 4 th , 1 8 0 4
Joanna waked with great joy and happiness in her,
and began to plan a simple scheme in her own head,
the way she thought she should hear the voice
of the Lord call her aloud, as she often heard
her name called aloud, and was promised she should
again ; and she thought it might be in the simple
plan she had placed in her own mind; but finding
herself disappointed, she laughed at her own folly,
and told us her plan and her thoughts. The plan we
saw, but her thoughts were unknown to us, before
she told them, and then laughed at her simple
thoughts that she had been placing in her own
mind, and how she was disappointed, but’did not
feel any sorrow at her disappointment; but all was
joy and happiness within ; and she was admiring the
beauty of tne Wisdom of the Lord, in what won­
drous manner he was working; and that she would
not go one step from his directions, for the whole
world. She w
as remarking the impudence and ig-
h 2
Digitized by Google
norance there was in men, from an impudent igno­
rant clergyman, that had the assurance to write to
Miss Townley, that she spent her money in the work
of the Lord ; for so it is, whatever the wretch may
judge it. He said he should not be surprized, if the
Chancellor took care of her fortune. But none of
these threatenings are ever sent to ladies of fashion,
who ruin their fortunes in the works of the devil,
by gambling .at cards, operas, balls, assemblies,
masquerades, and every catalogue of vice, that the
devil can invent.These are very well to be supported,
and every luxury and extravagance are very well to be
upholded, till their shattered fortunes are gone ; and
the poor, honest, industrious tradesmen, are often
ruined by their extravagancies; for they not only run
through their own fortunes, but they run through
the fortunes ofothers, and then think.it vciy well tosay
they are broke, therefore the people must forgive them,
and they remain asgentlemen the same, and with im*
pudence and confidence demand it, because of their
Rank and Title. After making these remarks to.us
in-part of the words, rivers of joy run through her
m ind; joy that she cannot express, and she felt her
heart too full to keep silence; she came out of her
bed and walked up and down the room as fast as pos-
sible, and said she felt herfelf so full she should
burst if Miss T . did nol; put down the communica­
tion she was copying and send it to her brother
to copy oft'; and call Underwood to sit to writing;
for she says, the world, is at ,an end ; the days of Sth
dom and Gomorrah are come,, in a day they little think •
o f; and in a day unawares the Lord will come with
a shout from H eaven, as the voice of many wa­
ters ; for his Ambassador is gone forth; H is horn is
bjLo w n ; t h e .H orn op Salvation to all. them
that are waiting the Coming of the Lord. His
Ambassador is. gone, forth, and His Horn hfSalva­
tion is come. • • .....• y *
( 60 )
Digitized by U o o Q l e
< 6 i ' y
" T h e midnight hour ofjoy is come,
To my Beloved it is known, *
Because at first you saw it here;
1said the Woman should appear.
T o warn iny brethren all the same—
And so to Foley this did come,
A midnight hour ofjoy to he ;
And so to Sharp this thing might be;
For Ml send it by no po*>t,
Because by silence men are lost;
Therefore My Horn, must blow aloud
For to awake the sleepy crowd—
And this Express they all must know
Does from their God and Saviour go:
T o warn the people I’Mat hand :—
T he days of Sodom now command,
And now Gomorrah all shall sec,
It is like L ot that you must liee;
The day and hour when I do warn,
I tell you all, you don’t discern:
For like the thoughts that were in thee
I tell thee perfect is in me.
They fcaw the plan [ did prepare,
But yet my thoughts no man did hear,
The thing that 1 had in my view;
Ml bring the shadow now from you
Because the shadow there 1 plac’d,
And in thy heart ’twas I that burst
To shew thy plan, but vet conceal.
T ill afterwards thou didst reveal
T he very thoughts that were in thee.
And now Ml tell the thoughts of me,
My plan before you I did Jay,
But all my thoughts conceal'd like thcc,
T ill now’s the time I do appear
For to reveal the mysteries here.
1said my Bible true must come,
Then now discern it, simple men,
How Noah's Ark doth now appear—
And from the man Fvc taken her,
Now waiting for her Coming Lord, .
And listening for to hear his word,
As he did sav, to call aloud;
Then tremble all, ye busy crowd,
Who now stand Vailing at the door
And vetWjfetos vo\i, 'tis in love,
if you’ffrn Ilfin lie now W
ill prove
A faitltftfl hVididiifJ to you a ll;
Arid like tligt wofinn j ou would ftlj,
* To have your lover rmmlerd here,
Digitized by Google
’ ( to )
If that MY H0RN do not tivakc '
The trembling hearts of men to shatter
That like the woman they may stand *
, *
For theylre defil’d by Satan's hand. t
Just as that woman, (hen with child, ’
1 tell you all. he has begait'd \
And now by arts he’d lead them on
To bring the midnight hour for man
In to his cursed p it tof a ll $
The day of vengeance so he'd call
To bring thef a ta l p it for man;
And like that woman men do stand,
That now are listening toIds sound.
And in his fetters strong are bound,
As she was then bound to the man.
By his pretended love ’twas done;
And now by his pretence the same
They've all despis'd theirS avioUtt’sNamej
And like that woman they do say—
Satan their lover won’t betray.
For (hough I meet them at the door.
And tell them dangers they are near,
If thev go on like her that way,
Theyjl meet their ruin said by he.
And so by violence he kept her back,
Until he’d been and seen tne wreck, •
And shew’dher plain his dream was true*
Unto the "rave lie bid her go
W hen he had made the villain fly,
He shew’d her plain her death was nigh,
If he had let her gone alone,
She plainly saw she was undone.
Ami now to man 1 say the same*
The arts of Satan you inflame,
Stoutly to stand against your God
And tell the paths you all have trod.
And in them you will still go on,
You can’t turn back, nor shun the roan
That now is digging pits for all,
Wherein I say you all must fall.
And bring the day of vengeance here*
It is for man he doth appear
TWlatteron, for man mu6t be,
It never was designed for he
To bring the curse upon his head
As in mv Bible it is said.
This is the way he flatters here’
;
*Twas he beguil’d the womaip there,
And now by him that she must stand—
But l have pluck’d her from his hand.
And warn’d her of the m idnight h oqt9
And Hell shall feel my every poivfecc,
He dig’d a pit for her at ^ , i
And by that pit he now i* cast; ............
Digitized by Google
' f a / s f
( 63 >
And by that pit he shall appear
And tremble as the man did there;
And like the man I’)l make Him fly—
*
T is forthe Woman he must die ;
v You know | told you at the first,
For her I did pronounce the cure, #
Because that ne had her betray d—
-
And so the Gardener?* arts were laid;
And I the thing did then ordain
T o bring this pardble to men, *
How like the Gardener all is plac'd;
The simple woman so is cast,
That was betray'd by Satan's hand.
And now the way that men do stand*
They'd surely bring her murder here.
And Satan's arts would not appear
I f I in Power did not burst,
And blow my T rumpet at the last*
That he no further should now go;
He did betray her as a foe,
Andthen his hist to make complete*
He thought for her to dig the pit,
Wherein he thought he'd make her faiK
This is the perfect Type of Hell:
After the Woman he did lust
When the Creation first did burst,
' And then the Woman did betray,
And she with child in grief did lay,
,And then her murder he brought there.—
Another fable must appear,
. To make the mystery out moreplain;
Now think upon thy Mothers Dream,
Or yet a dream to thee she told;
For every mystery I’ll unfold.
These things were all ordain’d by me
That men their Bibles plain may see;
So now 1 bid thee place the two,
That's in thy heart I well do know,
, And then the whole I shall explain,
And from my Bible prove it plain."
' T ■ *
The dream that was in my view, was of tw*
servant maids, that lived with my Grandmother.
After they were gone away, one of the maids
that was very fond of my Grandmother (as well
as the other) came one day to my Grandmother
and wept bitterly about a dream that she had bad.
She dreamt, that in Caddy-fields, between Or-
trty and'Fairmile, she was walking,and inCaddy-fields
she met a Cat, sitting upon a gate, which scratched
J}er upon the right breast till she bled tp death.
1
Digitized by G o o g l e
M y Grandmother went to comfort her, ‘
and begged
her never t<? go that way alone. W hether it was
that night, or a few nights after* I cannot remember,
but at the very same place she ,dreamt the Cat met
hef, she was found as it was supposed ravished and
murdered. She was found, murdered, and by the
Jur^judged to be ravished.,The young man that
courted her left Ortrey and was never heard of af­
terwards ; so it was supposed the deed was done by
him. But before this murder was beard of, an ap­
prentice maid my Grandmother had laughed at
the woman’s folly for crying about her dream; but
my Grandmother answered—-
» t
Dreams are not always Mrtcj, "Moll •,
Though, some wonder* they da telU - ^;
Fof His in dreams the Lord doth ward
A way that men do not discern.
After this fatal murder, my Grandmother had
another servant' maid, who- was then gone from her
to Sidbury, and my Grandmother then lived at
Caddy near Ortrey. She came to my Grandmother
and told her dream ; thafc.she dreamt sh? was walk­
ing ove& Sidbury Hill, and a Serpent met her, and
stnng her to death. My Grandmother was alarmed
about the other’s dream and death, and begged her
for her life, never to go that way alone ; 'and to pre­
vent any dangers happening to her going home, my
Grandmother said one of her servant men should
tcarry her home; but now I cannot remerpber per­
fectly, whether she had the man to carry her hqme,
,as my .Grandmother argued with her- fponj the
ifate of the other, though 1 think she wasnotterrifed
from her dream, but said she could go home,safe:
however, my- Grandmother would not let her,.and
one of my Grandfather's servants carried her home,
as they were all alarmed about the other’s death;
. * MeOy ?ardiaer was thisnameof the servant. .
<( 84 )
Digitized by L s o o g l e
( 65 )
but in carrying her home, they met no man at all,
and she saw no dangers stood in her way, for which
reason, she thought it folly in my Grandmother,
to be so fearful of her walking alone ; and after that,
within a week or a fortnight, I think it was, my
Grandmother heard the news that she was found
murdered at the very spot that she dreamt the Ser­
pent met her ; and wasjudged like the former, to be
ravished first and murdered after.—
THE A
N
SW
ERO
FTHE SPIR
IT
.
* Now, Joanna, thee 1*11answer.
As these women did appear,
Perfect so, I now do tell tnee,
Satan's arts in all are here.
The Jews at first like cats did burst,
The howling noise they made,
They spit at me, like cats to be,
My Mother was betray’d,
I say the same, they slew her name,
And ravish’d then the Jews,
T
illdead to me they all did flee,
And let them hear the news:
That they at first like cats did bunt,
The howling noise they made,
Against their Saviour they did burst—
O h1 men, be not misled.
Like cats appear, they did come there,
And maae such doleful cry;
They howling theu like cats appear’d^*
They said in Blasphemy,
Th?t I was come their priest and king,
A Saviour they'd destroy;
And as I would not yield to them.
My life they would enjoy
It at the stake, they then did break,
And did like cats appear,
Because tbe noise they all did make
Is perfect like them here.
And now my Gospel you read through,
You’ll sec the likeness clear;
What cats begin appear’d in men,
What noise they all did make;
Until their Saviour they bad slain,
And brought me to the stake 111
That sure did come, in love to man*
As she did him behold;
But when he told his bloody plan,
Her trembling heart grew cold;
In agony she then did lay
W hen by his lust oppress’d,
I
Digitized by Google i
And then his cursed love did see
Her faithful breast to thrust;
The dagger through, you all do know,
Went through her every soul,
And so she felt the fetal blow—
And now i tell you all* *
Just like the Jews, that did refuse
My dying love for man,
You all may tremble at the news,
Foryou like him do stand.
You do appear, 1 tell you here,
You Jews in every sound;
ppr like the pats you did appear,
And then you struck the wound
To strike me dead, and then you fled,
1 tell you all, from m l >
So like that man, you Jews do stand,
And murdering cats you be:
Like tKfemyou howl, like them you scowl,
My blood you then did crave;
Upon your heads you said it should fall—
And now my blood you’ll see
Shall now appear, your guilt to clear,
If you in grief do turn;
And like the man you’ll now appear,
In conscience for to mourn j
For well I know his grief was so,
His life he could not bear ;
He surely felt a Judas* woe,
And died in deep despair.
For like the first his mief did burst,
When me he had betray’d ; '
For my disciple he was plac’d,
That brought this on my head.
Then now see clear the likeness here,
Her lover he profess'd,
That afterwards he did appear
To wr
ound her faithful breast:
For to betray, her murder lay
Committed by his hand; ^
And then liis conscience him betray’d,
And made him leave the land; ’
Because that there he could not bear
Longer to remain; 1
But of his end they did not hear—
And now 1 tell you plain, *
The end *pf map to all is coipe,
The murderers all shall fle6;
But as sfou did riotknow the man,
What end did coipe to hej '
So unto all,it now‘will fell,
Their end you will riot knew, .
But fetal will their ruin be, 1*
To them that strike the t>lo^? • '
t
< 66 )
Digitized by Google
( « r )
Or do assume for to begin
To strike the blow once more; ‘
You like the Gardener will be seen# ,
In your own pits appear; .
As he did then, ye simple men,
When digging of the grave;
He thought the woman should be slaiu'f
His honour for to save;
And money too, he then thought so,
For he must then provide ,
The helpless offspring to bring up,
If he tlie wife denied:
To make her so, he well did know,
He must*the trial bear;
Unto expences this would go,
W hich he the whole did fear.
So conscience deep that was asleep,
Then digged the pit for all:
Until he found his every net
Had ding'd therein to fall. (
/ So I'll end here, and say no more,
* But to the Gentiles come:
J fo r here the Murder must appear,
’ The Serpent is in them:
Because that he doth silent lie,
And stings them with a spear;
A noise in he you do not see,
Like cats for to appear;
And so ’tis come, Isay to man, •
The Gentiles they are here.
For to betray, as she did say,
The Serpent with his spear.
I've shew’d you first how it did burst, -
The Jews like cats did slay, '
And so the woman she was cast,
Her dream came round that way.
But know the last, how that was plac'd,
TVas by the poisonous spear;
You know in him no noise was seen—
The Gentiles so are here;
They do not break, like cats, to speat^
Like Jews for to become;
Because they had no footing here, ‘
The whole for to condemn. ‘
So silence see in them to be,
Like adders they are found,
That are deaf to every mwtery—
Then tremble at the sound.
• See how you arc plac'd, ye fallen rac€^ *
Like serpents to become,
That do the Woman now disgrace,
ButvhaCenp foot to stand. ‘
1 tell you plain, yc sons of men, .
T hat footing you have none,
i a
Digitized by Google
< )
The Woman here for to condemn9
But murder is your tone:
In silence lie, ice'll make her die*
“ Her blood we'll surely spill:**
As I did then on Calvar}',
By Cats, judge as you will.
Blit now *tis here, TCl prove it dear,
Like Serpents you are come,
And'silent lie that she may die,
Your sting this way is known.
Then of the two, I tell you true*
The Jews are now (he BEST:.
The N atural B h a n c h is in my view,
And the W ild Olive cast.
So now see plain, ye softs of men,
How these two Women stand :
This very thing l did ordain,
To bring it to the land;
Because that here you can’t appear
To prove the Fable wrong}
For set the noise the Jews did make*
When I to them did come}
But n o w a g a in t h e s e c o n d t i m e .
Like Serpents you appear}
And I have tried you every way,
No noise in you I hear*
But silent lie, that all may die—*
And thousands you will kill,
I tell you, by your silent,spears}
Now judge this a s you will: ^
Your footing's lost, and you may boast
Like the aeaf adders here,
No Other wav, to thee I say,
They ever can appear,
Unless they see the mystery^—
The woman then with child ;
That just like her they certain be
By Satan's arts beguiled:
Then they’ll sec dear he doth appear
To dig the pit for all}
Artd to go further, such will fear,
That they their end shall fall r
Because they'll see, as deep as thee,
These Parables do stand,
Tliat surely were ordain'd by MB
To bring all to the land—
So my express must thus go forth,
The Horn to blow for all}
I've laid a way you did not see
In bye paths this to call}
A way unknown to man I'm come.
For so l said it should be;
And in a day, l now do say,
The t Uu t h they alFwHl see, *
Men to appear, as thou said'st here*
Like Empty Bfcttfes come}
' 3
Digitized by Google
But if I find them trembling here*
I'llfill them up toith W ine,
So let thy Fable now appear,
I'll answer thee again*
It was a thing that I thought ofa lady at Exeter,
whom a very empty prodigal man went a courting -
to, thinking to gain her fortune, as he was in dan*
ger of breaking every day; but the lady was told
of his circumstances; and one day when he came to
dine with her, the lady asked him what he chused
to drink ?
■He said wine. The lady had agreed with
her servant before, and ordered the gentleman a
bottle of wine. The footman brought a bottle
corked close, as if it were full of wine, but no wine
was in it, and put the bottle on the side tabic. She
desired the pretended gentleman to draw the cork,
and help himself to a glass of wine. The gentle­
man drew the cork, and said, “ Oh, madam, this
bottle is full of emptiness.” Yes, sir,” she re­
plied gravely, “ and so are y o u a n d then laughed
at his folly, to make any attempt to come to her.
I said Miss Townley might say the same by the
Clergy, that they were full of emptiness, by the
impudent and ignorant letters they have sent her,
which a plough boy would have been ashamed to
have sent. This made Joanna see mankind as full of
emptiness as the bottle was that the lady produced to
the gentleman, that when the cork was drawn there
was nothing there; and they have drawn their pens
the same, and might well be ashamed to own their
names ; for how could they answer to see their let­
ters with their broken wisdom, like the gentleman
that went to the lady with a broken fortune ? And
when he missed his aim there, he soon discovered
he was as empty as she shewed him, for lie broke
soon after ; and just so will all their empty wisdom
break into folly :—“ For they will soon find they
have a Gon to deal with, and not a simple woman,
that thev would defile and murder—as the two wo-
4
( 69 )
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
( .3fP 0
men mentioned by thy Grandmother ; but now they
shall find I w il l a w a k e , and p b o t e c t t h e W o­
m a n , as the Gentleman did, who rose at midnight
to save her life.”
, ' “ For in I say. my midnight ntfw is pa$t,
To blow the Horn, and shew how all must burst;
FoY niy Dispatches they shall so appear,
And with the dawning morn begin it here,
To blow the Trumpet at the dawping day,
Apd witli the rising Sun it now must fly—
To say the Years of Jubilee are Come,
The liansoqVd Sinners they may now return;
And so my Ilom that day ft shall go through.
And bring the setting Sun before their view,
\V ith the Dispatclt that 1 to all do send:
Because these things I surely did ordain
’ As Types and Shadows, for to place before j
And l let Satan for to work it there,
His every cursed art to work in man#
To shew how \Voman/<7^ his ariful hand,
•
. And by his power he made the Woman fall:
1 tell vqu plain, these Men are Types of H ell;
And Types of Hell you’d let them still appear,
If like the Master I did not appear,
To cast the Villain in the Fit he digg’d,
\V hilc all the nations are in sorrow big j
For big with sorrow^all the lands I see.
Just as the ^om^nnafh'd by thee.—
And now another Fable I shall place, f
And then I’ll tell thee how I’ll answer this.’’
It was of a pretended great Gentleman, whowenta
courting to Ladies at a great distance, and pretended
be was a going to marry them, but when they did
come, he robbed and murdered them; and to con­
ceal his villainy, he would make a visit to tbeir
parents, to come and see them ; and when the parents
affirmed they had not seen their daughters since,
nor the maid that attended them, he would
pretend to be in the greatest agonies possible,' fear­
ing some other rival bad run away with them. In
•this practice he continued for some time at last he
,went a courting to a single lady, who had no pa­
rents to protect her at all, and she was jealous of
.him ; but to find out the truth of her jealousy, she
was determined to have a servant man to go with
her, and he (the .gentleman) had invited anoth<«
Digitized by Google
lady to accompany h e r; but as they did not live all
on one road, theydid not go together,but appointed
to meet together at his house. The single lady, that
was on horseback, espied him at a great distance-
from his house, walking with the other lady. She
said to her servant man, “ I’ll alight and run in,
and search his house,” and charged him not to stir
from the place where she left him. She went up.
stairs, and sawagreat many ladies’hands cut off, stuck
full of diamonds and gold rings, and she had the cou­
rage to pick up some, and put in her pocket.—She
saw written behind the door—
.*
• Be bolil, but not too bold,
u Lest your hearts’ blood grow cold.**
She had the courage to write in answer—
u Bold I am, and bold I’ll be,
.*
• Further I’ll go, and more I II see.”
After she had gone, through the whole, and had
seen the ladies’ rich apparel, which he had taken
from them, when he murdered them ; she espied
him coming with the lady, and fearing to run out
of doors, lest she should be catched, she saw a
little door that went in under the stairs, where she
slipped in, and pulled fast the door. She heard him
say to the lady, her companion was not come, and
he would go up stairs and shew* her his rooms.—
Here her heart began to tremble for her companion ;
but knew, if she discovered herself, she could
not save the other's life. The other’s heart began to
tremble when he offered to take her up stairs, know­
ing herself a single lady in the hands of a gentle­
man ; he then began to force her up stairs, which
alarmed her jealousy the more, and she p u t. her
hand to the bannister to keep herself back ; and he
immediately took out his knife and cut her hand off',
and let her know her fatal doom when he had drag­
ged her up stairs. The shrieks and cries of the lady
prevented his hearing her get out of the closet tliat
( 7 1 )
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
( n )
vyas under the stairs, and the lady’s hand dropped
into her lap through a hole in the stairs. She
wrapped it in her handkerchief, and ran to her ser­
vant, while the bustle of the murder was up stairs,
and she rode home as fast as she could. And judg­
ing he would come to see her the next day, she in­
vited a large company of ladies and gentlemen to
dine with her. He came as she expected, and all
the gentlemen and ladies ; she sent word she was
not very well, that she had got a cold, and begged
he would amuse himself with the company till
dinner was brought in, and by that time
she should be able to get up and come down.
In the mean time she ordered her servant to have a
strong guard of constables round the house, to take
him if he offered to flee through jealousy. W hen
this was done, she had an elegant dinner carried in,
and then she entered pale as death, and he pro­
fessed to be sorry to see her so poorly. She said
she hoped she should be better by and by. He
then complimented her upon her elegant dinner;
she said, Yer, sir, but I have a muchfiner dish for
you than any one that is here. At these words he
turned pale, and jealousy alarmed his breast;
he feared that as he had done to others, the Lord
would requite him : she immediately ordered her
servant to go out and bring in that dish, which she
had shewn him. The servant went out and brought
in a dish with the ladies’ hands, and the rings that
he had cut ofl' placed round the dish ! He saw his
destiny then too late—that thejust judgment of God
had overtaken him. He fell almost lifeless on the
floor, and was taken to jail, where he received the
just punishment due to his cursed crimes.
TH
E A
N
SW
ERO
F TH
E SPIR
IT
.
*
*Now, Joanna, l will answer thee. As the Lady
placed that man’s murder before his view, so have I
placed Satan’s murders before him in thy Sixth Book,
shewing how he murdered all the Woman’s good
Digitized by Google
'( ts ,)
Seed throughout: andnowI shall place this to
----------and to thee. For that Parable stands a
Type for Saiaiis end. It was him that worked in
--------, todesire thee to come toher hpuse; for he
thought as he had slain the other before, he might
by arts slay thee also; but as soon as his murderous
arts appeared, that he had slain all her .faith, I took
thee from the house, and then he followed thee like
the man in thy Dispute. But I had a strong guard
of angels round thee, as the Lady had of men ; there­
fore when he told thee to be bold, but not too bold,
lest thy heart’s blood grew cold, it was I that.gave
thee courage to answer, Bold I am and bold I’ll be,
further I’ll go, and more I’ll sec :”
Which gave thee courage to go on,
And 1 1
1condemn him by thy hand,
That shall against him now appear:
I’ll make the wretch to tremble there,
When that before him all do come,
He'll feel his doom is like the man
That did the woman so betray.
For so their lives he took away
In every age thats past and gone.
But know by wisdom this was done,
Her jealousy it did appear,
To know the truth she ventur’d there,
And to the house she went alone,
Until she pass’d through every room,
Where roues of innocence did lie !
For his black arts, did them betray,
And so she saw the rings appear,
Upon the murder’d fingers there;
And so the Rings of Faith, I know,
Are oft by Satan murder’d so.
Their Rings of Faith he fakes away,
And so*their lives he doth betray,
And strips them of their every robe,
That should bring them unto their G oo:
And so his arts do men betray,
Their innocence he takes away,
Until the Ring of Faith be lost,
And so of murder he doth boast,
And hath gone on unto this day,
Until my W isdom here did lay,
To place thee in that Woman’s room,
To Wing on him his final doom.
And so thy faith I strengthen’d on
For to go bn as she began ;
In jealousy thou didst appear ;
To know the truth thou ventur’d there, •
K
Digitized by G o o g l e
And did go on from room to room
T ill thou beginnedst to fear thy doom,
Because a Lady he brought’in
That by hispowerful arts he'd slain;
That then tne mystery thou didst sec*
That she was murder'd then by He,
In every faith that she had got!!
But know, before what thou hast wrote#
« That bold l am, and bold I’ll be,
« Further I’ll go, and more Ml see.*
And so alone thou hast traveil’d on*
And wert supported then by man,
That did in taith stand strong with thee
His subtle arts that thou might see.
And so his subtle arts did come,
The murder'd woman must be known,
He told her thou should st fall the same,
When by his arts he did inflame
Her heart in unbelief to burn;
Then back her cloathing thou didst turn
That he may now possess the whole.
For in hor heart he strong doth rule.
And in the end all souls will see,
The Mysteries deep of her and thee*
Because the likeness doth appear,
Thou travellest on in wisdom here;
Procur’d the words the Villain spoke,
Because that x>ay he now shall drop.
And so like her, thou must go on,
*Tili to the purpose all do come:
And then thy dying looks they’ll see,
W ill fill his heart with jealousy.
And soon thy Booh shall make himfa ll \
And paler than the whited wall,
I tell thee, thou wilt see the man,
That hath been guided by his plan. ^
So from the woman you see here,
The way his death must now appear!!!
But if thy faith should now give up,
There is no room for man to hope:
For if the Lady then had died
In trembling fears, when there she lied,
His murder then could not appear;
Had she grown faint apd fainted there,
Before the other s life was fled, *
That he had done the murderous deed,
Then sure her flight could never come,
Her fainting fears would her undone;
And others must h^ve fell the same;
His practice he would have carried on.
So by hpr Courage she did save
Her life that day then from the grave^
And many others from that doom—
*
Piecern tne Parable, ye m en!I
Because I tell you it goes deep.
What of this woman now I sycaV?
( 74 )
Digitized by Google
For so will be the end of H E L L :
No more against her do you swell
Unless your Daughters you’d destroys
And he so on for to enjoy
His murderous schemes, 1 say, the same,
And let this Woman you inname,
To think of what she aid go through,
To bring the Murderer to your view,
To stop his hand and slay no more—
And npw I'll end this Fable here,
Which is of Women, that did come;
But now 1*11 bring it unto Man,
The Alarming Drum the wholemust clear.
And let the Fable now appear.
( 7« )
The fable was of a gentleman and his man, who
were benighted and came to a.private inn. The maa
went out to rub down the horses; and putting his
hand under the manger for a lock of hay he felt a
man’s head. He went in and told his master, whac
house they were in. The master said, if we both go
away they will be jealous; therefore, you go and take
my horse and ride to the town as fast as you can,
for a regiment of soldiers; and tell them you are
going for a particular paper for me to write on. The
man went as his master ordered ; but the ostler came
to him, and begged to let him go. The man said,
it was as much as his place was worth, for if he let
another go in his room he would never keep him
another day ; and his master’s paper was at a par­
ticular shop, and no man could get it but himself.
W ith these arguments he prevailed on the ostler to
let him g o ; and as fast as his horse could go he
went back to the town, which was live or six miles off!
After the man was gone some time, two villainscame
into the room and asked the master, which should be
his murderer? He said, he hoped neither. They told
him, yes, one or. the other must. He said then, he
hoped they would spare his life till he saw his ser­
vant and they might die together. They said, when
the servant came back he should meet with the same
fate ; but he must die then. When the gentleman
found nothing would do, he said, then he hoped
K 2
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
if he must die, they would give him one hour to
m
ake his peace with God, as hemust die. Devilsa
s
they were, the restraining hand of God w
as w
ith
them, thatthey gave himthat hour, and turned up
an hour-glass; and there w
as but athimble of the
sand to run, whenthey heard the drums of the sol­
diersbeat aloud ; thentheVillains immediatelyfled,
and knew they were betrayed, by the same hands
they had betrayed and m
urdered others ; but
though they fled theywere pursued, and everyone
was taken; andthe house w
as putdown never m
ore
to bea public house after, that no m
ore such devils
M
ightgointheir room
, tom
urderothers astheyhad
done.
TH
EA
N
SW
ERO
FTHE SPIR
IT.
“ Now, Joanna* thee I'll answer:
From this Parable appears
The last hour is approaching,
And the sand for man is near.
Because their deathfor to bringforth
Satan is strong in uian:
And if they do not wisely act,
Their murders all will come.
Because that two, bring to thy view,
At the Lower Moor aid die *:
For Satan had inflam'd them so,
That the Devil was in thee:
So both did die, I tell thee why,
By Satan's artful hand,
Because in they he strong appear’d,
For there the Type doth stand.
So they are dead and both are fled;
Then let the world take care,
That it don't fall that way to a ll;
The Alarming Drum is near,
For men to free "from misery,
That Satan now would slay.
: The travellers they must tall like he
That under the manger lay
Had they not come, in wisdom strong,
In wisdom to appear—
You all must own ’twas wisely done:
The Parable see clear,
Thai I have plac'd: ye fallen race*
'Tis wisdom now must shine.
I ask what learning then could clear
The mail’s life at that time ?
No; twould not do, I tell youso*
Then wisdom’s ways now see;
* See pag«S2, of this Book.
(
' 7
* )
>
Digitized by Google
< 7T )
It is by 'wisdom you must go, '
If now preserv’d you be; *
For wisdom here did bright appear,
The lives of both to save;.
And wisdom here, I'll prove it clear,
Must keep you from the grave,
That Satan here, did strong appear,
I say to dig for all 1!t
The Alarming Drum will jaws bo knmn9 v
To prove from whence the call j
For men will see, as deep as he, •
Their lives stand now at stake;
Felr Satan’s come their lives to claim—» ’
The Alarming Drum will break:
Then happy men that how begin
Tq see tneir death is near;
And by their wisdom will contend*
To bring m y so l d ie r s near,
That at the grave their lives to save;
For Satan threatens so,
That all their lives he now will have,
Then let my servants go;
In wisdom here let them appear
And all my soldiers bring.
It was in wisdom then he said,
His master plain was seen;
So wisdom here let it appear,
Learning will never do; 1
For no philosophers could clear.
Such wisdom to pursue,
As then was done by they two men ^
Then wisdom fast pursue,
And then you’ll all find in the end
Like them two yon will do:
Yourselves to free from misery,
And make your foes be cast;
Then all the houses I’ll put down,
Where Satan’s rage doth burst;
To murder all, both grfeat and small,
The single hour they'll see:
When the bust sand is nearly run,
Alarming Drums wul be
Their lives to save, when near the grave
Their deaths seem to appear;
The Alarming Drum they’ll see will come,
And their deliverance near.
So thus 1*11end, for I intend
Men’s wisdom for to try;
And from the Parables that are penn’d,
The end for all draws nigh.
So my Express must thus go forth.
The dawning day appear—
And from the rising of the Sun,
The Fables all are htge.
Digitized by Google
but from the day, I now do tar#
1 shall the whole go through,
And from the Setting of theSun .
The sparkling light you know#
That doth appear from Fables here#
And wise youi! see the end;
But wisdom’s paths despis’d they are;
’Tis deep what thou hast penn’d.
So Ml cud herei and say no more#
B u t my express m ustj l y ;
And tell my. soldiers to mice care#
The Alarming Drum is nigh.
The sand's near run# the hour's near gouty
, The manger they will see;
If they ii) Wisdom do not come#
They all will die like he.”
Sunday, 12 o'clock at Night.
FR
O
MM
ISSTOW
NLEYTO M
R
. SH
A
R
P.
^TuesdayAfternoon, June 2(5, 1804.
W e have sent away two long letters to the
Reverend Mr. Foley, with the events of Monday
and to-day, with a very extraordinary Parable ex­
plained ; but as I could not go through the events
of the evening in Mr. Foley’s, I shall continue them in
’ your’s. And here you may puzzle your head a little
more, and wonder from whence the beginning of this
all sprung, as the events of the day are all concealed
from you; and a wondrous day it was.—A little after
ten o’clock last night, Joanna was ordered to take
up her bed and walk. She went out of bed and
walked hastily up and down the room r at last the
Spirit op the Lord entered into her with P ower,
saying, he would fulfil the Parable that she had
been writing ; for now, he had proved the D evil
the liar by the two witnesses ; and as Satan had
walked up and down the earth hitherto, the Lord
would walk up and down the earth now ; for he
was come in majesty and in power, too great-for us
to bear if he came in his own person ; we could not
bear him in that div in e majesty and rower,
appearing in his own person, speaking in words he
was then speaking in h e r:—How he would claim
1
78
Digitized by Google
S /f ic /f ^ «s
( 79 )
the earth for his own—How he would destroy th*
works of the D evil-H ow he was treading the wine
press of his Father’s wrath against'the Devil.—“ But
should I appear in my own person—Should I
appear in m i own power—Should I appear in my
own majes't y , you would air tremble to stand be­
fore m e . Therefore I am come in Spirit in the
Woman, to declare my Father’s will unto men. You
are my two witnesses against the Devil—Fear not
Lydia; be not terrified my friends; for I am in the
spirit, and I will destroy your enemy ; I will de­
stroy my adversary.— Warn my disciples; for I will
come in majesty and great power ; but how
could you bear it, if I came in myself, to declare
these things ? No, I tell you, I must come in the
Woman, to destroy all the works of the Devil—and
in t he woman I now APPEAR—Therefore, Satan,
• feel thy doom; thou hast belied her—thou first be­
trayed her—and now she hath obeyed me thou hast
belied her. Therefore thou shalt feel the rod of my
vengeance; and a new gal^aws shall now come for
thee : here are my two witnesses, to witness against
thee.—Fear not ye women ; fear not my Lydia; fear
not my M other; fear not my Sister—I will be your
Saviour—I will be your Corfqueror—I will tread the
liar between my feet; he shall feel the weight of my
fury; he shall tremble and fall before m e .—I am pre­
sent in the W oman’s F o r m — But in my own form
you could not bear me—In my own form you would
tremble before me ; therefore I come in the Woman,
in a way that ye can bear, to declare my loving kind­
ness to the children of men.— My faithfulness
and goopness I will not keep back : For with the
faithful I will deal faithfully ; and with the upright
now I will deal uprightly; but with the froward I shall
deal frowardly; and with hell I will deal with fury; for
he shall not walk up and down in the earth as he has
done; I willcut him off—and walk up and down in his
room; I will claim the kingdom for my own, and I
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
. will walk tip and down in it—I will eome in ma­
je st y —I will come in power. But should I appear
. so now, you women would fear and tremble ! Bot
fear nor, ye women, I am with you—I will protect
you—and I mil destroy your enemy that came with
lies against you. My Promises are sure, and I will
fulfil them ; for I said the gallows should be for the
liar; and my lands should come to the heir with my
Daughter that spoke the truth. Therefore tremble
now, Oh Satan! thou shalt feel the weight of my
fury :—-for as thou puttest thy garters across the fan,
this day, and thoughtest to thyself it was like Wool-
lands words, throwing villains one on the one side
of the gallows^and the other on the other; and so I
said, I would throw Satan and his accomplices,
that had tied and bound thy feet so long; for which
reason, thou didst throw them so hastily on the floor,
and desired Underwood to pick them up and put
. them into the fire, as thou would&st never touch them
more. And so the fire of my anger shall now destroy
all the works of the Devil, and all the powers of the
Devil. But here thou must stop, and tell the sense be­
fore thou goest further: the greatest part of the words
before it came to thy garters, was delivered by me
last night, but some words were spoken, that I have
not repeated now.” And now I shall speak from my­
self : After I was ordered to take up my bed and
walk, I went immediately out of bed and walked
up and down the room, fori knew the Lord did not
mean me to take my bed at my back ; so I went out
with my pondering thoughts, of the Parable I had
been writing in the day, and the abominable lies of
the Devil. All of a sudden the Spirit entered in me
with such power and fury, that my senses seemed
lost; I felt as though I had power to shake the house
down, and j et I felt as though I could walk in air,
at the time the Spirit remained in me; but did not
remember many mortis I said, as they were delivered
with such fury that took my senses ; but as soon as
( 80 )
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
( 8 i )
the Spirit h*d left me., I grew weak as before. Now
what was spoke through me last night, I cannot re­
collect myself, but I was ordered to pen the words,
as they were .spoken to me now; so Miss Townley
and Underwood can be better judges of the like­
ness of the words than I can; but I perfectly re-
member»these words, “ That if he came in his own
person, m ig h t , majesty, and power, that we
women should be afraid.” To the best of our remem­
brance, say Townley and Underwood, they are. the
very words that were spoken last night, from eleven
till twelve, and much more was spoken, as the words
flowed much faster than any pen could write them ;
and the rdflm shook so violently that we were obliged
to take the things off the drawers. I laid upon the
bed, as perfectly quiet and composed, listening to
all she said ; Underwood stood at the feet of the bed,
looking at her and listening with the same attention;
but neither of us felt any fear; and Joanna saith she
felt nothing but joy and power.
But here she must introduce a Parable. It was of a
Knight that was travelling and benighted ; and hear­
ing the mistress of the house, where he stopped, crying
out, he asked,What was the matter ? They said, she
was in child-bed. He went out and looked at the pla­
nets, and the child that was that moment born, he be-
lievedmust be his wife. He went inand asked the farm­
er, if she was brought to bed ? The farmer said, yes;
He asked, what it was? He said, a girl. He got lodg­
ings for the gentleman hard by. He finding that
child was born for him made him restless all the night.
I shall pen the story as I heard it.
The Knight he did tumble and toss in his bed,
‘ * And tnatiy strange projects came into his head.
W ith a vexing heart, next morning he rose,
And so to the house of the Farmer he goes,
And asked fhc'man with a heart full ot spite,
If the Child was alive* that was bom the last night? '
“ W orthy Sir/' says the Farmer, •• although I am poor,
I had one born last night, and six heretofore.
Four sons and three daughters I now have alive,
They arc ali in good health and arc likely to thrive/’
L
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
4*Well, then,” said the Knight, “ if seven you hav%
Give me the youngest, 1*11 keep her most brave,
For 1 am a Knight of a noble degree,
And if you will part with the child unto me, *
Full three thousand pounds Til unto tbee. give.
When I from your hand your daughter receive.
, / The Father and Mother with tears in their eyes,
Did hear the kind offer, and both were surpris'd.
^ They delivered unto him the sweet babe on that day*
And with her he rode on till he came to some sea.
He said if you live, you must W
e my wife,
But lam resolv'd to bereave you of life.
So he took the sweet Babe, and then threw her i n -
But mind how good fortune for her did provide,
She was then driven back on the waves by the tide,
And a man that was a fifhing as fortune would have—
When she was a floating along with the wave;
Fie then took her up but auite in a maze,
He kiss'd her,and nress'd her, and on her did gaze;
And said, “ he had never a child in his life,
4* And now I will carry this home to my wife/*
The w;fe wa« well pleased the child for to see*
And said “ my dear husband, be ruled by me,
•• i or as we have no child, if you’ll let me alone,
u We ll keep this dear infant, and call it our own/*
The good man cousented, as now we are told.
And spared for neither silver nor gold ;
Until that she was eleven full years, •/
And then her sweet beauty began to appear,
The Fisheiman was di inking one day at an inn,
And several gentlemen were there drinking with him,
The woman sent the girl her husband to call home,
Aud when she into the drinking room came,
The gentlemen there were amaz d for to see,
The Fisherman’s Daughter so full of beauty;
They asked the Fisherman if the child was his own*
lie replied, on the the infant was thrown.
The Knight in the company the^e words he did hear.
And said he would give him a thousand for her.
The Fisherman then sold her to the Knight for
the money ; the Knight told the child he would
send her to London in a coach to a brother of his,
where she should be brought up like a lady; but
he wrote a letter and put it in the portmanteau and
said to his brother—
**With sword or with poison destroy her this night.
7 tfU t* ‘‘ And not let her live ’till the next morping light.’*
But a thief in the night, with an evil intent,
To rob the portmanteau immediately went;
The thief was amazed when he then could not find
Ko gold nor no silver, nor nought to bis mind,
But only a letter the which he did read.—
( 82')
0
Digitized by G o o g l e
f *3 )
A nd soon pat an end to this treacherous deed:
T h e thief read the letter, ^nd had so much giac^
T o tear it and write in the very same place:
•* Deaf Brother, receive this Maid now from me,
4* And bring her up well, as a Maiden should be;
•• Let her have good learning, dear Brother, 1 pray,
44 Let servants wait on her by night and bv day,
44 And when that l come, I’ll sufficiently pay."
T h e Maid was attended most nobly indeed,
She’d men and maid servants to wait on her with speed
Before a twelvemonth this cruel Knight came about—
And as the Knight and his Brother together did talk.
H e saw the (air Damsel in the garden to walk.
She look'd then.most beautiful, pleasant, and gay,
lake to the sweet Iris, the Goddess of May:
H e was in a passion when he did her spy,
And said most angry, 4
4 Why, brother, why,
*4 Did you not do as in my letter I writ ?
”
His brother reply’d, 4*it is done every bit.”
H e shew’d him the letter that very same day,
The Knight was amaz d, but nothing did say.
H e said tnen the Girl shall now go with me;
And with her he rode, ’till he came to some sea;
He then look d upon her with anger and snite.
And spoke to the Damsel and bid her alignt—
Then down from her horse she immediately went.
And trembled to think what was his intent^-
4
4 Ne’er tremble,” said he, 4
4for this hour is your last
44 So pull off your cloathes, I command you in haste.'*
The Virgin with tears on her knees did reply,
Saying, 4
4What have I done, Sir, that now I must die.
4
4Oh ! pray let me know wherein I did offend,
“ I'll stand on the sand each hour to make you amend.?
He pu lC d off"his r i n g from h is fin g e r, an d said —
41 Pray look on it well, for the posev is plain,
4
4 That you, when you see it, might know it again;
m I charge you for your life nc er appear in my sight
4
4 For if you do I shall owe you a spite,
4
4 Unless you do bring the same unto me,"
W ith that, he let the Hing drop in the sea.
Which when he had done, away he did go,
And left her to wander in sorrow and woe.
She rambl’d all night, at last did espy
A homely poor cottage, and to it die! hie;
Being hungry and cold, and her heart full of grief,
She went to this cottage to ask for relief.
The people reliev’d her, and the next day
They got her a service as they do now say.
At a nobleman’s house not far from the place, »
Where she did behave with a most noble grace.
One day she was opening a fish, and saw the
gold ring, which she perceived wilh raptures of
joy. Some years after, the Knight came to the
*• 2
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
house wheri she lived to dine; he perceived the
damsel in the gentleman's house, and asked h e r to
take a walk with him, which she complied w ith ;
but as soon as he came out of sight of the people,
he'said, “ You strumpet, did I not charge you for
your life, never to appear in my sight ?” She hasti­
ly answered him, “ Not till I did bring the same
ring that remember you dropped in the sea,” w hich
she returned to him. He received the ring and fell
on his knees, and said, “ Pardon, fair creature, I
humbly pray, for thou hast a million of charms
aryl then he married her, with raptures of joy and
love.
TII£ A
N
SW
ERO
F TH
E SPIR
IT
.
“ Now mark the man. The thing was in the
Womb of Providence, which he with all his might
tried to prevent’; but all his schemes would not do.
The art of man, or the power of man is as nothing,
to fight against the determined decrees of Jehovah.
Pride tfcmpted the man to withstand his happy fate,
receiving a bride that was beautifiil, young, and in-
nocenr. To see an infant born of mean parents, he
could* not bear to think that child should be the
partner of his soul to complete his happiness ; vet
that child perfectly completed it after he had Seek­
er! so many ways to destroy it. The ring made.him
fall at her feet, when she brought him the ring that
he had cast away. This child I will place first to
my birth, when the star appeared in the Eastland
the news was brought to the Wise Men, that I was
born the Prince and Saviour of M a n k i n d ; they
sought the young child’s life to destroy ir, but my
flight into Egypt, like the child's being thrown into
the sea,preserved my life: but here I.know thy heart
is puzzled, thy mind is confused—how can I bring
the likeness of that child to myself, when I iya$
destroyed and the child was preserved ? No, I tell
thee, there stands but the shadow, for I must come
again in the Woman to fulfil the substance. So i
shall go again to the shadow, of the fisherman who
({ &i > )
Digitized by Google .
' y / s t / /
( 68 >
first preserved her 'life. As Jonah’s life was preserved
in th e sea; so thp .man preserved the ^itl from the
seas, to preserve her life for more fatal ruin ; for as
th o u sayest in thy heart, had not the heavens pro­
tected the child, she had better died in her infancy
th a n to be sold as she was into the h^nds of the
K night, that might have seeked her ruin worse than
death , if he had not seeked her death ; but kind Pro­
vidence had been over-ruling to protectt her. And
now I hall come to the thief^ and compare him with
th e thief upon the cross, after Judas had betrayed me
and sold me. The thief upon the cross reproved
th e other thief, and spoke of me as the other wrote,
—»•* Kemember me in thy Father’s Kingdom.”—
So here we ended, June 2 7 ,1 8 0 4 .
4
4But here the subject I shall end,
Suppose her then to die,
No further on was my intend, ,
’To bring it on that wav.
Now, by this letter, Til suppose
The shadow to appear,
And so my likeness then I’ll close
To go no further there:
My Father a will for to fulfil
I did go through for man:
And now go back unto the child.
How she at first was born:
A destiny design'd to be,
The Partner of man’s soulj
But Satan’s arts did swell in he,
And here's the fate of ail.
The arts of Hell began to swell,
When I the Woman plac'd
To be the Partner of nis soul,
Then Satan’s rage did burst 1!—•
But puzzling here it doth appear,
I know thy mind’s perplex d;
How I this thing can now compare,
With the Creation fix’d ;
Because the man was then the plan,
As tbou the thing dost see;
That sought the murder of the child,
And after married she.
Then ho* to man can this now stand ?
Is thy enquiry here.
Then sure the Fall which was from Hell
Doth now in man appear,
Digitized by Google
The way thou see the mystery, J
The jrnurder of the child; . *
Because by man *twas carried 009
Rv Satans art* dtgutCd ! t .
1 tell thee so the Fall did go, ,
And must from man appear— '
The Fall of Man, I tell the plain -
' He cast the Woman there: ,.
Because 'twas man did her condemn,
Then now begin to see;
The Woman's fall. I tell you all,
From Satan ne’er could he, ,
I f man had come in love then strong
.Condemn’d the Serpent first; < .
Then l must come in love to man,
And on the Serpent burst.
But he did say another asay,
And like the Knight appear—
**The woman she did me betray,
u And I’ll c&ndemir her here;
**My destiny I now do see
“ Is in the Woman plac’d—
** And now mvself l mean to free#
“ And have the woman cast" >
So he appear'd 1 tell thee there,
Just like the Knight become— ^
“ My poverty 1 now do fear,
u Tre woman I’ll condemn
So she was ca<t, the Knight did burst,
l tell you, like the Child;
The pa*ents then did give her up,
And man is surely foil'd:
Bemuse the King shall sure be seel*
That in the seas was cast;
And in the end you'll see it plain,
My fishes so will burst, _
To bring the Ring so plain to man
That they will then fall down,
And say the Ring they do discern, .
The truth in all was found. ,
The word at first it so did burst,
For in the sea, they then will say, -
It was in sorrow cast!! ‘
The woman on her trembliug knees, ^
Did then in sorrows burst: ‘
“ What have 1 done ye simple men!* * '
And let her words appear, ,
• T is innocence that was betray'd— ’ ( ~
And see her Parents here, /
They gave her up as they did hope ^
The man would faithful be; t
And so tie fall it then did drop,
When Satan did act like he;
To say the child 1 have beguil’d ••
And blessings she shall know.' .
( 86 )
Digitized by Google
^ ? ° * y ° ur Earned men are foil’d.
I’or Satan work d it so— ^
Ttte ruin first from him did burst.
A s Satan laid the plan\
And so I tell you at the last,
fhe end will come to man.
" JW he do see the mystery,
• How Satan led him on,
By every ai;t he could invent^
to frustrate my plan;
I tell you so, I tell you true,
This way doth man appear:
like the Fable in your view,
Mankind have sure been here—
The planets see, your destiny, ‘
tor heaven first laid the plan;
I he woman should your helpmate be,
Your wedded brides become;
But you went on, ye simple men,
ror to condemn the whole! l \
And in the seas you threw her then,
Her seas ofsorrow fell.
To take her out, let no man doubt,
But I did then ordain,
And by the promise that I made,
1 brought her out again,
^ ?RIP? MAN—behold my plan,
_ A n d the next Promise see,
That over her, her L ord shall rule,
And so the end shall be.
JHgo on from man to man,
W hat sorrows did appear__
W hen Heavens protect her at the first,
_ B y man preserved were;
That kiss d and prais'd, and qu her gaz'd,
And call d her then his own.
And as a child he did preserve,
(JntU the gold didcome\
Then *he betray’d, the child misled, .
For cursed gold was cast:
You all must see the mystery, *
The way the Fable's plac'd:
Sold unto one that then did come
Her life for to betray-r*-
found in man,
That sav'd her lipe that day.
Because he tore what did appear,
Her life for to destroy: '
ABdfoark the words were written thereof
She honour should enjoy;
And honour then to her dia come—
But here the lines go deep i !1
^ lo ^rotber come,
While conscience was asleep: * .
14X?u should have done as I command,”
The Jki^gbt to hyn did cry;
( 87 ;
Digitized by Google
When p thegarden he saw her standi
The GIRL he doom'd to die ! / /
His Brother then he did begin
To answer, “ it is so,
“ Your Letter see *tis done by me ;*
*
. And did the Letter shew.
Where, in a maze, the Knight did gazew
And marvell’d how ’twasso;
The Letter there did so appear,
So different wrote hr/ he ;
Her murder there for to appear,
And now preserv'd to be!! ?
u In written hand my name doth stand,
« But .who did forge it here
« I do not know”—the Knight thought s
“ My deeds shall not appear.
- Brother s blind, I now do find,
“ To what I said before:
•• I have pot courage in my mind,
« To name the Aeed once more;
*
* So i:il Conceal, and not reveal,
u What in my heart doth lie;
•* The puirder here shall now appear
u Conceal’d from man to d ie:
“ So now with me the child shall be,
«• And I II destroy the whole.'*
So in. disguise, before their eyes,
He thought to make her fall:
When in his hand the child did stand,
He took her then with he;
And when the seas he did command,
Her sorrows let her see:
•• The fecas are burst, and you are cast,
“ And now condemn’d to die;
w Take offyour cloathing at the last,”
Was then his every crv.
But she did not behold tne stroke
Did to her heart appear;
And ask chwhat evil she had wrought
That she must perish there ?
Upon the sand she said she’d stand
Each hour to appear,
For (o make him every amends,
If she did offend him there..
Then from the ring he did begin
To bring it to her view;
And bid her see the posey plain,
That she the rjug might blow;
If e’er again it should be seen
To come before her view,
Then she might boldly answer him,.
* Ficm his own words pursue:
Digitized by Google
“ You charred me** the child might say,
4
4Never tor to appear,
“ Unless the ring that I could bring,
*
* You in the seas dropt there."
So seas came on, and sorrows strong.
She wander’d then alone,
Without a friend for to defend,
To H eaven Wasall her moan ;
Then I did provide, as it was said,
Her strangers, in distress,
That did protect her in the nighty
And calm’d her grief to rest
The service there she didprepare,
And friends she there did see;
Because the maid beloved were.
Then in the house you see;
Her place not high, you all may cry,
A skullion maid become;
And so the fish was clean’d by she,
Where she did find the ring
She kept withjoy—would not destroy*
Though she might sold it there.
And bought her clothing at that time,
More fit for her to wear.
But she did not—now markher lot,
By faith she kept the ring,
Because shejudg'd her every lot
Depended on the thing, '
If ever more he should appear,
The ring her life must save—
And as her f a i t h to her w as then,
The end it so did prove—
Because the Knight before your sight,
Did unto her appear,
When coming to her master's house,
He saw the damsel there,
Which made him swell m ragefrom Hell-*
4i Can I not her destroy ?
4
4It is by arts, I do know well,
Her life I must enjoy:
**Begin by love the cause to prove,
4
4And take her from men’s power,
4
4And when alone she makes her moan*
441 may her life devour."
So thus went on the arts of man—
A Hermit in disguise; .
Because before him I did stand,
To make him act so wise;
The ring at first for to be cast,
And say she might appear,
If e'er such wonder it should bursty
For her to see it more:
But wonders then, ye simple men,
Did unto him appear;
(.89 )
Digitized by Google
. When she did remind him of his words, *
And shew d the rinq was there.
Then from the ring Til now begin.
All Satan's power was broke—
And as a man lie there did stand.
Or did before her drop—
*4Pardon, said he in agony,
“ For wonders I behold 111 ,
« Millions.of charms in thee must bet
“ My fluttering heart grows cold;
**When l lpok back upon the stroke,
“ How oft I’ve seek d to slay
94 The beapty bright before my sight,’*
“ That doth inVouders lay:
Wondere at flrst to me did burst
“ When 1 the 9tar beheld,
That spell an infaht then was bom
“ For me to cloath with gold. *
“ No beauty then to me was seen
9
4To see a helpless child,
“ BoriLof such parents that were mean,
“ A Knight’s neart to beguile; ‘
94 I.adi^s of feme l thought to claim,
“ In title great with me;
** Therefore the heavens 1judg’d unkind, .
“ To shew such destiny
As did appear to me then clear,
“ To let myself dowrUow;
But by the wonders that are here,
“ No Knight so high can go;
u For where is one on earth can come,
“ To shew that heaven’s so kind,
94 Such^ondcrs for them e’er had done,
“ To prove that love divine
Have loved she from infancy,
“ And Heavens did guard her so;
44 Though Satan strong did seek her life
“ In me, I well do know;
“ Because my plan I must condemn,
“ A muiderer fioin the first;
4
4 And so by arts l still went on,
“ Till Innocence did burst;
94 W ith truth appear before me there, *
“ And wonders to behold,
94 None but a God kept oft'my rod,
“ Though it made her heart grow cold,
u When I appear’d her murderer there
“ To see her on the saiid:
9
4 But being ipoved by her tears,
“ I did the Ring command,
* That slip must bring ere she was seen
44Before me to appear.
V I ne>r <;$uld thought such wondrous thing,
ft 'J’hat heaven protected her. -
< 90 )
Digitized by Google
* The Ring to gain, ye simple men,
“ Let all your Brides appear,
" With all their costly diadems,
4
4But here's the greatest here.
94 To see the Ring that I did fling,
44 And in the seas did cast,
" AndvHxAVENs a Pish prepar’d for her
MTo bring it me at last 5
u I well might fall, 1 tell you all,
44 At Heaven s divine decrees;
* You see her beauty is not small-*
44 I now adore his ways,
9
1That did her protect, and me kept back
“ From every fatal blow,
9
4That Satan worked in my heart;
4
4And 'twas from him I know,
4
4 That l went on in arts so strong,
u While Heavens protect my bride,
9
4That closer to my heart is come,
4
4No millions here applied.”
Compar'd with she, the man did say,
Her charms were millions there,
m answer thee another day,
My Bible so compare:
But men i'll see what in them be,
Their judgment let them pass;
And themi’ll prove the mystery,
My Bible so is plac'd;
And so must end, l say to men.
If you your Bibles see;
As he the planets did discern,
Her murderer he can’t be.
So now in print let this appear
To try the heads of men,
And with their Bibles this compare,
And like the Knight become,
That heard the cry, as he did say,
The mother ana the child;
He view’d the planets fpr to see
What fortune on him smild;
And did discern in her nis o\yp,
Which he did first reject;
Till heavenly stars made her his own,
By wonders to p rotyt
So wonders here do strong appear;
Much greater than the child :
Which in the end you 11all see clear*
Bless God you all werefoil'd.
Her life to kill, her blood to spill,
Like him you do pursue; #
But sure like him your end will come,
Whose hearts are just and true;
fvike him relent, like him repent^
When ynu her tears do see;
( 9 1 )
Digitized by U oosle
C 9? )
And say—4
4the Ring if it can be ace*
44 We’ll gladly wed with thee.
44 So now well try where this doth lie,
44 The wonders do appear;
44 Then like the man we all shall stand, *
♦
“ And say her charms are great, .
And a^l is done by Heaven's command, '*
44 Though we laid every net,
44 To frustrate Hisjust decrees,
44 That d o in w is d o m sh in e.
41 But how can man with Heavens contend? 1
49 The folly of mankind
44 We plain do see, for now like he, 1
94 We ll fall before h is feet
44 For though;the shadow stands in she
44 ‘Tis Christ made her complete,
44 Our helpmate here for to appears *
44 Briqg(back the R in g again, 1
44 Then the New Covenant is clear, 14
44 The Bible we see plain,
44 Is come to man just like the Ring, >
44 That he cast in the sea,
41 And by the fish it plam if seen,
44 He hath brought it Dack this wayj
44 Again the same, we know h is n a m e ,
44 Jehovah jthis hath done;”
Then now see ejear the Marriage here,
The M a r r ia g e o f t h e L a m b .
THE END.
LONDON: PRINTED BY S. ROUSSEAU, WOOD STREET, SPA FIELDS}
AND SOLD BY E. £ FIELD, NO. 8, HIGH STREET, ST! GILES'S,
TWO DOORS FROM THE ANGEL INN; AND ,
THE M
ISS EVELEIGHS, ST. SIDWELL'S, EXETER.
1804.
[Price Eighteen Pence.J
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
