{"name":"Fixed Stars Or An Analyzation And Refutation Of Astrology","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1814__beaumont___fixed_stars_or_an_analyzation_and_refutation_of_astrology.pdf","mytitle":"Fixed Stars Or An Analyzation And Refutation Of Astrology","mylang":"de"}
FIXED STARS;
on,
All Analyzation and Refutation of
ASTROLOGY
The Principles of this Science being plainly laid open,
and their absurdity and Wickedness clearly
demonstrated.
TO WHICH IS ADDED,
MANY ANECDOTES,
Shewing the Folly,andalso theMischievous Tendency,
of Fortune-Seeking, Fortune-Telling, and
Almanack Predictions.
LIKEJ^'ISE
SOME EMINENT TESTIMONIES,
BOTH IN PROSE AND IN VERSE
Against Astrology, Fortune-Seeking, Fortune-
Telling, &c.
By G. BEAUMONT, Minister of Ihc Gospel.
T/ie Secret thinz,s belo't% unto the Lord our God: hut those
things which are rtvc nled,, belong unlo us and to our children
for ever. —Deut xx'ix —29.
Is it not because there is not a God in Israel^ that ye ^o to
enquire of Baal-zebub the God of Ekron ? —2 Kitigs, i.— 3«
Second Edition—Greatlj/ Enlarged,
Norwich ; —Printed by C iJerry, and sold by Baynes, Pater
noster Row; Lees, Hurst, Onne, and Co ; Sir iiichard
Philips; Crosby and Co.; and liackington. Alien, and Co.
liONDON —Also by Lane, Norwich; Gooch, Yarraoutli ; Dra-
kard, Stamford ; Sutton, Nottin2;ham ; Thompson, Leicester;
Croinc, Sheffield ; Tiunnpson, Alanchester ; J^eaton, Leeds ;
F.irrar, RipoM;AlIl>iit, Harley ; Hurst, Walcefield ; (jarnet,
IluddersUeld; Garlick, Halifax; and by all other liooksellerB,
1814.
Erjbata : —Page 80, line 10 from the bottom, foFj.
other temperatures then they ; read than they, &c.
P. 93, bottom line, for Oct. 31, 1801, read 1808, &c.
Caution;—P. 108, lines 5 and 6 from bottom;" for
*' the ability of foretelling cwy thing^^? (to avoid the
ambiguity to which the words any thing are liable)i^
read, any thing they please^ 4*c*
Entered at Stationers' HalL
^^
JPMEF^dCE,
XNdieyearlSOS Tpublhhed the first Edition of the riXE«?=
SxAus: That edition bein^ all sold ofl'soine tiait a^o,^! now pre-
sent tlie Pablic with a Second Ldition, correcteu, a^id greatly
enlarged.
It is not easy for an author to say any thing in favour of his
own productions, without being liable to very unpleasant im-
putations. Of tile -^jcij^'^ of tliis humble csiay, £ have notiii;)^
to advance; but I may be alloTved to say, that some such pub-
lication was really wanfingj and, farther, that it is well ineanl,
though it may i)e but iiuiillcrcntly executed.
A publica(ii):! like this, 1 S£:y, is really vva!!ting; for though
the present generation, likaall preceding ooes, has vanity enou/li
to thiiik, and frequently to call itself arv ^* cnligJtiened o^c,"
yet in spite of this cnr.ceit, and in spile of Societies for the Re-
formation of lilanners—Of bible Societies—Of Tract Socie-
ties —Of Sunday Schools &c. thtre is in thousands and tens of
thousands of people, a strong bias towards Astrol9{^y and Ft>/--
tune-Ttlling. This mischievous propensity is principally, i!u»ugh
not wholly* among the lower ranks of Society. The cause of
this evil propensity will be ditferenily accounted for; sonieas-
cribi.ig it t') a superstitious inclination inherent in our nature ;.
but others, perhaps with more justice, will charge It upon ill
example and bad counseL For my own part, 1 attribute the
evil in question, partly to some wretched publications on As-
trology and Fortune-Telling, whieh are now and then issued
from the press, by men who care not what they do to mankind,
if they can but make a penny for ihemseifes ; and partly, nay
chiefly, to those despicable Prognostications and Predictions
which annually make their appearance in our almanacks ! Al-
manack-Makers having long since discovered that mankind are
fond of the Wonderful^ and of the Knowledge of things lo come^
have every year dealt out these things with an unsparing hand :
and if this their conduct had only amounted to a littlr" fun, it
might have been pallir-ted though not justified. But when it is
considered that by this abominable ctnduct, the moral princip^le
of many men fs poisoned, and consequently their well being both
for time and eternity endangered, and frequently their utter ruio
effected, the subject becomes awfully serious > and if these Al-
IT
Manack-Makers had one grain of true wisdom in them, they
would choose Death or StraRsling rather than thus sin against
God, & acceieratetlhe destruction of their fellow men ! When a
man has given up his confidence in, and his reliance on the Di-
vine Being, and has attached his dfstiny to the posture of Signs
and nanet", instead of fearing God and working righteousness,
he is subverted in the fundamental principle of all goodness; and
if he bo not speedily ictrieved from hiserror, he will finally be
ruined by his wickedt'c^s! To Almanack-Wakers and Fortune-
tellers, if I mistake not, the Day of Judgment will be a tre-
mendous T>ay !
There have been several publications against Astrology, in
this nation ; but it is long since they were out of print. One of
these by Mr John Gaule-, a Clergyman, enl i tied -JVJ a g- Astro -
Makcer, &c, is a Master-piece initskird: but then it is too
learned to be of much use to any but the learned ; and moreover,
it is rarely to be mcf with; and it it we>e reprinted it would be
almost ust less, as it would be both too learned and too dea" for
those M-ho most needed it* Another ot the kind was published
by a Mr. Wm^ Rowland^ about 16U ;>e3.rs ago, and of course
long out of pi int. And another by fiasstndus^ a Frenchman,
translated ij^to English above ISOyears ^ince. and of course now
c>if of print r.lso. These men all wrote well in the refutation of
As'rology; but they would have done still better had they
stooped a little more to the capacities of ordinary readers ; for
generally, tho:-e who most need their instructions will least
understand tliern. But, men are seldom willing to write in a
style below their abilites,
1 have inserted a large extract from the Rev. W. Perkins,
not because of the elegance of his style, for that, though I have
taken some pains to mend it, is but of inferior merit ; but because
Mr, P. had been an admirer of the Science, and, as himself
asserts, '* had long studied the art^ and wus never quiet until he
had seen all the Secrets of it.''^ On this account, and moreover
because Mr. P. was a pious ?.Tinister of the Gospel, I thought
bis testimony against A-trology would have greater weight
with the teachable reader than au extract from Dr. Henry
Mnre^ who has written on the same subject and in a better
style ; or a large quotation from the thrcelearned writers above
mentioned.
I have collected and inserted several anecdotes on the vanity
and evil tendency of Astiology and Fortune-Telling, which I
think will be more effectual in the reforming of some readers,
than seientific argumentation, In short, there are arguments,
ANECDOTES, and BLHI.KSQUE ; and i humbly hope, and sincerely
pray, that by the blessing of God, tliey may be made useful to
thousands of mankind.
G. BEAUMONT.
Ebenezer Chapel, Ber-street, Norwich, Dec, 1813,
FIXEB STARSf
The following is a copy of a le(ter whicli ap-
l)eared in the Leeds Mercury^ and gave rise to
the publication of this Book.
£•* The following paper has been transmitted to us for inser-
tion.—The sentiments may be novel—but to some, novelty
may be a recommendation. We shall be >viliing to find
room for any further elucidation of this theory, provided
it do not extend beyond our limits. Editor of the Leeds
Jfercurj/."3
" The FIXED STARS^
Do not shine hij their own Light, hut by Re
Jlection from our Sun.
ItXUCH Las beenpublished the l^st hundred
jears respecting the Fixed Stars, whereby it is
attempted to be proved, that every Star is a Sun, as
large, and some even larger, than our own ; and
that every Star hath its attendant Planets, Satel-
lites, and Comets ; a doctrine so truly wonderful
and extravagant, that it requires no small degree of
faith to believe it.
"In my opinion, the Fixed Stars are the
Waters above the Firmame77t that we find men-
tioned in the Bible, which the wise Creator has
disposed in such order as he thought fit, for the
conservation and nourishment of the world h*
B
6
,|]ad made:—Thus we read, Genesis^ i. —6, 7,
^ And God said, let there be a firmament in the
midst of the waters, and let it divide the waters
from the waters. And God made the firmament,
and divided the waters which were under the fir'
mamenty from the waters which were above the
Jirmament, and it was so." Again ; Psalm cxlviii.
—i. " Praise him, ye heaven of heavens,, and ye
waters that be above the heavens," And, Song
of the Three Children, verse 3S, " O allyeozJa-
ters that be above the heavens^ bless ye tlic
Lord," &c.
" If this seem dark and obscure, I will intro-
duce what is well known to all : —The Fixed
Stars never shew themselves but in the absence of
our Sun, exactly in the same manner as the pla-
nets; and the Moon in her second quarter, is visi-
ble in the East, long before .we have any tidings
of the Stars, which could never be if they were
rSuKs, and shone by their own light,
'^ The Stars defeating the glass of the Astro-
nomer, has led him to suppose that it is occa-
sioned by their immense distance ; but this cannot
Joe admitted^ It must be owing, first to their
composition, which is a crystalline water, or th«
water above the heavens^ that has the reflection
of a looking-glass, and accounts for their spark-
ling appearance : —And, secondly, to their being
dispersed round our world in innumerable and
small bodies by the all-wise Creator, both to
shew his power, and to bring to pass his benevo-
lent designs on man,
" The doctrine, therefore, of the Fixed Stars
being Sims, will be very cautiously received by
every person that is determined to make use of
his eyes, notwithstanding it is so plausibly
4au^htby men of renown.—First extracted from
this world of ours by the Supreme Chymist, they
are continued in their orbs to convey to us, (ag
well as the other heavenly bodies) their benign
influences, whereby all nalure is cherished and
refreshed, and ample provision made for the nu-
merous family of animals, vegetables and mi-
ueralH.
« The notion that the Fixed Stars are Suns,
involves many difficulties and absurdities which
it is impossible to reconcile ; and no wonder that
it has^ puzzled mankind more than any other
theory.
« An Admiuer of the Creation.
'^ Leeihf August 23d, 1802.*'
The author having had a previous inclination to combat
the wicked and groundless Science of Astrology, availed
himself of the appearance of the above letter to prosecute his
purpose ; and hence the following letter and the subsequent
pages.
FIXED STARS.
To the PRINTER of the LEEDS MERCURY.
SIR,
JMlAVING seen in your paper of late, some
uncommonly novel remarks on the Fixed Stars,
and conceiving the remarks to be not only nevr,
but to use the language of an admirer op
THE creation, " wondciful and extravagant;"
I humbly request you to give me leave too, to
make a few observations on the Stars and Planets,
and on the admirer of the creation's theory
also.
I think, Mr. Printer, we ought to be exceed-
ingly thankful that our lot is cast in an age of
such unbounded liberality, when opinions'' quaint
and wide,'* may be broached and propagated,
w 11 hout a fear of destruction or molestation, from
a superstitious and ignorant world ! It is but a
few years since, a man gave it as his opinion, in
a London paper, that the sun is a body of ice;
and we all know that the moon is said to be made
of green cheese : the *' Admirer," now comes
forward and asserts that the fixed stars are bo-
dies of ®o/er/ so that the whole creation, except
our earth, appears to be nothing but fee, cheese^
mnd water.
Bttt I would not have you imagine, Mr. Printer,
that these are all the opinions, that have ever been
advanced on this sublime theory. In ancient times,
an heathen nation viewing the Fixed Stars and
Planets, solved the whole phenomenon at once,
by saying, that the sky was the chamber floor of
heaven, and that the Fixed Stars were brass nails,
som'^thing like coffin nails, driven in on the under
side of the floor, and kept clean for us in this
world below to look at. But others objected to
this theory, alledging that the trouble and expence
of keeping the heads of so many nails clean, would
be endless ! They said, therefore,that the sky was
a boarded floor, several miles above the earth, and
that above the floorthere was nothing buta flaming
fire,—that holes being bored through the floor, we
were enabled to see the fire through them, and
these we called Stars* The different magnitude
©fthe Stars they accounted for, by saying, that
some were bored with an half inch and others with
an inch auger : that the smallest of them were bor-
ed with a common gimblet ; but the Sun and the
Moon, being very large, were bored with a faucet
wimble, such as coopers use for boring tap holes,
and butig holes! But this scheme of the heavens,
met with objections, also ; for it was very judici-
ously observed, that had the Sun and Moon been
holes bored in tliesky, they would have preserved
their relative distance, in the same manner as the
bung-hole and the vent-hole of a barrel, which
are never known either to approach to, or recede
from each other after their first establishment. The
Sun and Moon were seen to alter their positions
daily, and therefore this astronomical system ^ould
not be maintained. '^
But the Turks had still another system, (and
for aught I know they have it yet,) whether Mr.
b3
10
Mahomet taught it them, or some of their learned
men found it out, by dint of study and strength of
intellect, I cannot tell ; but they believed that every
star was a ball or globe of fire, suspended from
heaven by a chain, something like a chandelier
with the branches taken off! And tliat the difterence
of their magnitude, was determined by the length
or shortness of their chain, the large stars hano:ing
low by a long chain, and tJie small ones high by a
short chain; But neither could this grand display
of philosophical research, satisfy a captious and
spiteful world. For the objectors to this theory
say, that if the Stars were each ofthem hung from
the sky by a chain, then our world must hang by a
chain also ! And, that neither Hongainville^ Dam-
pier^ nor Captain Cook, in all their circumnavi-
gations had found any such chain ! Besides, it
is added that it would never answer a good end^
to hang such a curious and wicked world as this by
a chain, for some audacious men, would run up
the chain to heaven in order to remonstrate against
the dispensations of providence ;
—others would
officiously go up before they were sent for; and
many others again would presumptuously go before
they were ^^/ The chain, therefore, would be so
crouded with the dissatisfied, the officious and the
presumptuous, that it would resemble an oniorf
rope from top to bottom ! It is added moreover
that if the world were hung by a chain, in some
unlucky hour, a deposed king or disalTected sub-
ject, would wreak their vengeance on all mankind
at once, by cutting or breaking it, and letting the
world with all its screaming inhabitants fall down,
down, down, aye, who knows where ! !
Besides the above mentioned astronomical theo-
ries, there is yet another at least : I think it was
«orae of the inhabitants of the South Seas, who,
.^
II
when they contemplated the heavens, explained
the whole mystery ot Astronomy with much less^
ado than either Copernicus or Sir Isaac ISfewton.
For it was their opinion that the Sun and Moon
were Man and Wite, and that the Stars were their
children, that is, yonng Suns and Moons. Accord-
in<^ to their scheme tlie Sun was the llusbiind and
the Moon the Wife ; and they always dated the
Moon's pretrnancy from the time of an Eclipse
of t^e Sini^! But this old sceptical world has al-
ways been disgraced witli a set of querilous wretciies
who have had neither failh nor Roadworks; for
many objectors to this theory started up and said,
that if the Stars had hccn the children of the Sun
and Moon, some of them at k'ast. according to the
order of rjature, would havebren as big as their pa-
rentsbytliis time ; and that therefore the whole sky
would have been covered from center to circum-
ference with millions of Suns and Moons, some
full grown, others half grown, and in sliort, that
there would have been thousands in all the gra-
dations of age and size !
Neither does it appear that men have always
entertained the same opinion respecting Bainbows ;
some now a days, takiuir tliem to be C(miposed of
the Sun's rays and a watery mist ; but others in
time past believed them to be substantial arches
Hence, an Irish Mason, having undertaken to
build abridge with two or three arches, sigwifi* d to
his intimate friend, that, were it possible to beg a
few old Rainbows, for bridge arches, he could
soon complete his undertaking. The friend being
as wise^s himself, highly approved of the scheme,
but they not being able to discover in whose care
old Rainbows were deposited, found themselves
still embarrassed ! The friend however, broke the
silence, and removed the apparent difficulty all at
IS
•nee, by saying, "surely new Rainbows would be
stronger and handsomer than old ones, and if
you were to take one or two of them down when
you see them, I do not think there would bo any
thing said about it I" This was agreed to, and
their minds made up on the business; but the grand
project being told in confidence to a philosopher,
they were very gravely informed by him, that
Rainbows aretoo wide in the span for bridge arches,
and tliat a bridge constructed with three or four
such arches, would reach from Cork to Carrick-
fergus, and, that ten thousand years would be
insufficient to complete such a project. And be-
sides this, they were told that a Rainbow is not
worth a groat after sunset. The Irish mason,
therefore began to make his bridge with stones and
mortar, according to the old laborious way !
Thus you see, Mr. Printer, by this specimen of
ray abilities, that I am able to answer ani/ thing /
but fearing lest your patience should be exhausted
"with such a grave subject, and such a pensive
style, I shall conclude for the present, hoping, &e.
ASTRONOMUS.
Leeds, September 8, 1£02^.
PRELIMINARY UEMARES ON ASTR0L06T.
f_fN a superficial view, and especially to super-
ficial minds, Astrolo^T/ may seem a tolerable kind
of science: a science which may be studies! with*
out sin, and practised without danger. But on a
nearer view, f^nd a more accurate estimate, it \^ ill
be found to militate both against common prudence
and revealed religion ; and consequently to be an
IS
inlet to the theory of infidelity, the practice of
wickedness, and the vengeance of heaven
Every prudent man considers himself as having
a common stake in the well-being of human socie-
ty ; and therefore will feel himself interested in the
nature of those theories, maxims and principles,
by which moral society is actuated and governed.
He will of course believe it to be his duty to root
up and destroy falsehood and error ;and to establish
and maintain wisdom and truth. It is from this
consideration alone, that 1 have undertaken to
confront the science of Astrology ; and I am the
more ready to do so, because 1 have frequently
been both eye and ear witnesii io its pernicious
effects on the minds and morals of many weak and
credulous persons, within the sphere of my ac-
quaintance and observation.
But I am aware that the taking down of a sci-
ence, though a bad one, is not to be effected by
mere declamation ; but rather by fairly stating and
analyzing the fundamental principles on which it
depends : this,therefore,I shall endeavour to effect.
Analyzation and Explanation of the
TWELVE SIGNS of the ZODIAC,
XliVERY one knows that the twelve signs in the
zodiac, i\nd the seven platiefs, including the sun
and moon, are the foundation, corner, and top
stones of the whole system of Astrology. We will
therefore begin with tlie twelve signs. The first
sign, then, is called Aries, that is, the J^fwi ; be-
cause (as is supposed by tliose who have well
studied the subject) the nations who invented the
name, perceived that in the be ginning of thespring
14
quarter, when the sun enters Aries, the Ham had
a goodly flock of ewes and lambs to follow him
into the field ; and as many of those people lived
by grazing and selling of cattle, they were pleased
to honour the Ram by placing his name upon the
first constellation in the zodiac.
The second sign is Taurus, that is, the Bull
because in those countries were cows are not so
much domesticated as with us, they usually calved
in spring, a little after the ewes had yeaned. The
Bull, therefore, having increased his tribe, and of .
course the wealth of his owner, was honoured bj
the placing of his name on the second constellation,
or sign.
The third is Gemini, that is, the Twins ; these
twins are usually represented by two infant boys^
and are called Castor and Pollux ; but the twini
in reality, mean two kids, because goats usually
bring forth two at a time. The sign Gemini was
formerly called the Kids, Now, the eastern na-
tions bred many goats, and because the female*
yeaned after the sheep and cows had brought forth,
they were honoured with the third constellation.
The fourth sign begins the summer quarter, and
is called Cancer^ that is, the Crab; because the
sun having reached the tropic line (called the tro-
pic of Cancer) begins to creep backwards or side-
ways, as both land and water crabs will frequently
do.
The fifth sign is called Leo, that is the Lion ;
because the sun in the latter part of July, begins
to pour his violent and sultry heat upon the north-
ern hemisphere ^\ith a lion-like authority
The sixth is Virgo, that is the Virgin ; the an-
cients chused to rej resent the season of reaping or
harvest, by a maid bearing a handful of ripe corn
m the ear ; they were pleased also to palm hec
15
name (virgin) upon that constellation into which
the sun entered at the beginning of their harvest or
vintage.
The seventh is called Lihra^ that is, the Scales
or Balances ; because the sun when coming to tlie
equinox, divides his favours of light and heat to
both hemispheres, with as much exactness as if he
iteighed them in balances, there being equal day
and night over all the world.
The eighth is. 5cor/j/o, that is, the Scorpion;
now the sting of a Scorpioil is in its tail, and as it
is common for many people to indulge in various
kinds of riot and pleasure during a fruitful .ind
warm summer, and thereby contract diseases which
in the end leave a sting, so the Scorpion with a
sting in his tail, was placed at the tail end of the
summer as an indication of the diseases which
summer leaves behind it.
The ninth is Sagittarius^ the Bowman; (deriv-
ed from sagiita an arrow) because the ancients
used to shoot wild beasts and some other game,
with bows and arrows, guns being then unknown :
therefore the constellation or group of stars in
which the sun entered at that time, was called the
Bowman^ because it proclaimed the season for
shooting.
The tenth is Capricornus, that is, the Goat^ or
the horned Goat; because the sun having reached
the southern tropic, called the tropic of Capricorn^
at the bottom of winter, begins to climb up the sky
againj in the same manner as goais when grazing
on the side of a mountain, which are generally
observed not to browze downwards or 5idewis(^
but upwards.
The eleventh is Aquarius, that is, the Water'
carrier^ or Waterman ; because, this sign taking
place somewhere about the twentieth of January,
16
"Jinil en{lin<j sometime about the same day in Feb-
ruary, includes the time of the falling of much
snow and rain, and consequently of much water,
Aquarius, is derived from aqua, water.
The twelfth and last sign, is Pisces, that is
Fishes; because in the country where the names
of these signs were invented .the season for fishing
commenced the latter end of February when the
sun entered this last constellation.*
Nov/ these arc the names and derivations of the
twelve signs of the zodiac, which make such a
conspicuous figure in all astrological predictions!
The sun continues in each of these signs one with
another thirty days within a fraction, they com-
prising one with anether thirty degrees in the zodi-
ac ; and twelve times thirty being three hundred
and sixty, makes up the whole circuit of the hea-
vens. The nation therefore, who invented this me-
thod of measuring time, meant no more when they
said Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, &c. &c. than
we mean when we say March, April, May, June,
&c, &c. Whereas designing men, haveby de-
grees, and for sinister ends, altaclied to these signs
or constellations, something of the quality of the
persons, things or animals, whose names they res-
pectively bear ; and some of these signs are always
rising above the horizon, by reason ofthe earth's
diurnal revolution, so the man child, for instance,
(if we may believe Astrologers) who is born when
*Dr. SiBLT, and some others, I am aware* have -slated the
origin of these characters with some small variations from what
I have done; but neither Ht, Sibly^ nor any one else, could
know any thing of subjects so ancient, but by written testimo-
nies. My best way, therefore, was to read all I could meet
with on the subject, and chuse that which I judged to be best
I have done so— but the reader may rest assured, that in all
these variations alludedto, no essentia/ doctrine of Astrology
is thereby injured in the smallest degree.
17
(lie sign Aries, the Ram, is ascending the horizon,
nill be rich in cattle, &c. if under Leo, the Lion>
lie will be courageous and warlike ; if under Can-
cer, the Crab, he will alwaysbe mortified with find-
ing his affairs and cntcrprizes going crablike, sidc-
^vays or backwards, and so of all the rest !
i3r.t after all this turmoil and noise about the
Zodiac and the Signs, the terms and phrases are
no better than fiction ; for the Zodiac is only a
kind of starry zone or girdle round our world :
this starry girdle being limited by north and
south latitude in such a mannei' as to include
the aberrations of the iSun, Moon and Planets.
'J1ie imaginary formation of the Zodiac, and the
division of it into Signs were primarily intended
toaccomodatc thedignified science of Astronomy ;
and for tliat purpose ihey are well enough adapted ;
but still they are imagi/iaty, or at the best merely
scientific: for nature never marked o\it n Zodiac;
much less did she divide that imaginary Zodiac
into twelve Signs!
And as for the entrance of the Sun, Moon, or
Planets into tliose Signs, or Iloiises, as tliey are
called by Astrologers, this is fable and fiction al-
together ; for in reality, neither Sun, Moon, nor
Planets ever came near t!)ose Signs, ox Houses i
they being even at thrir nearest approaches,
hiindreds of millions of miles from them. V/ith
regard to the Sun, it is nearly stationary, and has
been so from the foundation of the world. How
then,i!i the name of conunon sense, can a stationary-
body, enter every month a Constellation, which is
also stationary, and »t an immeasurable distance?
Now, plain reader, by a plain suppositioji I
•will shew thee the nuiurc o^ P/anetary entrancCf^
and Planelari/ Houses, I think it is said, tliat
the City of Lo-Qcnlrtj stands about the center of
e
]8
England. Let us then suppose a Coach road made
round that city, at the distance of a mile; and
let us also imagine a Coach running upon it. We
must now imagine a Man^ an Observer ^ standing
upon the highest building in Coventry. Juei us
again suppose that this Observer perceiving the
Coach to be in a right line betwixt himselt and
London, should cry out to the people below,^' Now
the Coach enters London !" The Coach proceeding
northward comes very speedily into a straight line
between the O^^errer and the County of Norfolk;
the Observer then cries out " Now the Coach en-
ters Norfolk r* By and bye it comes in a straight
line with Yorkshire, and then he cries out " Now
the Coach enters Yorkshire."
After this manner it is easy to perceive that the
Coach would erder Lancashire, Staffordshire,
Devonshire, Cornwall &c. &c. het us now sup-
pose that some persons standing in the streets of
Coventry, should take ail in good earnest that fell
from the lips of the Observer^ and believe that the
Coach did actually e?2ier London, Norfolk, York-
shire &c. would not such persons expose themselves
to much ridicule ; and would they not either de-
serve blame for their ignorance, or pity for their
weakness ?
But supposing the Observer should attempt to
persuade people thatwhen a child was born whilst
the Coach was in a right line with London,it would
be very rich, because London is a large and opu-
lent City; and that another child born whilst the
Coach was in a line with Scotland, would be poor,
because there is much barren land in that country,
would he not expose himself to much reprehension
and sarcasm : and yet would he not have as much
and apparently more reason on his side than those
who p/etend to shape men's fortunes by the posi-
tion of the Planets ?
19
O ye Sign 'Mongers, ye Planet RLiIers,why do ye
impose your ridiculous jargon upon the credulous
and tlie unlearned ? You know, unless you arc ig-
norant, that the Sun, truly- speaking, never enters
any Sig";2,neitherdo any of'the Planets I You know,
or you ought to know, that when it is said that the
Sun, Moon or Planeis, enter tills or that House or
Signui the Zodiac, that the linguagc is adapted
to Astronomy, merely sciewtific, and not real ! The
truth is, neidier the Sun, Moon, nor the Planets
are ever in any liousc or Sign; they never were
since the world began, and we have reason to be-
lieve, they never will be to the end of time! Why
then will you continue this deceilful jargon to the
litter undoing of many of the simple and unlearned I
ANALYZATION OF THE PLANETS.
JtXAVING analysed the twelve Signs of the
zodiac, by shewing their origin and end, in their
first denomination and arrangement, I shall now
endeavour to do the same by the Pi^anets.
Wiien ancient nations viewed the heavenly bo-
dies, they perceived that they were nearly all of
them stationary, as if fixed to something, and those
that were immoveable they called Fixed Stars,—
But those of the stars that changed their position,
and seemed to wander, they called Planets^ from
the Greek word Pfanon,* or, Planao, + which
signifies to zo under ; the word Planet^ therefore,
signifies nothing more than a wandering star, and
is not, as too many imagine, a term' indicative
ef celestial influence
* ITncyclopadia Perthensis. f Dr. AsTr.
C2
26
Of these Planefs, the ancients discovered na
more than ^\e^ besides the sun and moon, -which
ure always reckoned in the Astrologers' catalogue
•f Planets, and make up their mysterious number
seven. These Planets are mucli diversified in their
nature and influence, if mc may take the Astro-
loger's word. But how came they by this diversity
•f nature and influence ?
The Heathens (I think the Greeks in particular)
forged to themselves a fabulous hero, and then
deified this child of their imagination. This
imaginary god they at length personified by the
image of an old man with a long beard and grey
hairs ; they put also a large scythe into his hand :
and this is the same image, I believe, by which
"Time is personified ; the large scythe which lit
bears, intimating that he cuts down days, months,
and years, old, young, rich^ and poor, families,
cities and empires.
This ideal deity, they were pleased (o call Sa^
itirn, and afterwards to lodge him in one of the
superior Planets, and then call the Planet by his
name, and ascribe to it the imaginary qualities of
this imaginary being ! Hence, forsooth, and for
no other reason, Astrologers reckon Saturn in their
mysterious cant, ?iVi in forlunate I In the name of
truth, wliat has (hat Planet to do with the good or
bad qualities of an heathen god ? And a god, too,
who never had an existence! They might as well
have called the Planet di goose or a snail, the folly
\?ould indeed have been as great, but the mischief
•would have been less ! If a child happen to be
born when this planet is ascending the horizon,
there's a poor look out for it in this world. Saturn
is an infortunate ! But this is not the worst, for
if the planet Saturn should ascend the horizon un-
der the fourth sign, that k Cancer^ the Crab^ or
SI
under the eighth sign, Scorpio, the Scorpion^ theu
there is nothing but misfortune upon misfortune,
and sorrow upon sorrow!
Jupiter is another of those Grecian deities who
never had an existence, he is the same with the
Egyptian rj«f?"m and the Roman Jove; but thev"
did not all ascribe powers and properties to him
alike ; in regard to this they pleased themselves re-
spectively In his origin, however, he was only-
considered as the imaginary father of life and of
the seasons, or year. But being increased in fame
and favour, he must not dweU on eartii but must
have his abode in thesky, and therefore tliey placed
him (in their imaginations) in one ofthe brightest
pla:ie(s,and then called the planet for his sake, Jz/-
pitcr! VV hoever then are born under this planet are
intitled <o sceptres, grandeurs, long life, &c. &c.
A pretended warrior called 3Iars, was phiced
in the next planet, and then the planet was called
Mars, aftei him; therefore whoever is born when
he ascends the horizon, is of a military and war-
like disposition ! Strange ! they might as well have
placed him in the North-pole star, and it was ten
to one but they had done so.
In ancient times when sacrifices were offered in
jvroves and high places, girls were employed to
bring baskets of flowers to the ceremonies; these
girls were soon used for other purposes ! aud the
avarice of Priests and the corruption of Rulers,
suffered that to become a law at length, which was
at first a transgression. The groves were soon
filled with young women, who had the sanction
ofthe law, and the precedent of custom. These
young women were called Venotfi, that is the
Girls^ or in plain English, the Wh—res. Most of
Europeans cduUI not pronounce the word Venoth,
but called it Venos, and from thence came Venus
c3
23
But time has added many qualities to this Tenii*,
(who is now personified in the singular number
only) besides those originally lier own. She is,
to be sure, the mother of pleasures, and has the
peculiar privilege of making men either voluptuous
or happy ! She is the goddess of beauty, and
makes those women who are under her influence,
fruitful. But all this influence is now in that
bright and beautiful planet, whom men have,
without even the shadow of reason, called by her
name! In the name of goodness, what has that
gflorious morning and evening star to do with the
wk—res of the Heathens ? or any wh—res ?
Mercury is the most inferior planet, that is, he
is nearest the sun. It appears that the name ori-
ginated among the Phoenicians ; and though it can
be proved to haA^e had its origin in the Egyptian
Dog-star^ yet its name signifies the cunnings or
the dealer. He was, however, in length of time
metamorphosed from one thing to another, till he
had the honour ascribed to him of inventing joo/xYy,
or those maxims and rules by which cities and em-
pires are governed. He has been made a messen-
^QY with wings ; and he has been made an orator
also. All this nonsense might have been passed
by^ had not the folly of mankind given him an
imaginary residence in that planet which now
bears his name ; and then to complete their wick-
edness, ascribed to \\ those qualities which he was
supposed to inherit. The consequence of all this
is, that the naan-child which is born under this
planet, will make an excellent Legislator, Mer-
chant, or Ambassador; or indeed, what you
please
The Sun and Moon have also their influences,
if we may believe Astrologers, whicli are for the
most part, good, but y^i circumstances alter cases
23
for though conjunctions with planets are mostlj
favourable, oppositions are ol'ton pernicious aud
fatal!
OF THE DOG-STAR.
BESIDES all these influential botlie^s, I have
only one fuore lo mention, which is ihe Dog-Star^
It is this S(ar that <jives the name to those (Jays in
July, called in Almanacks, Dog-daj/s ; and igno-
rant people are of opinion, that this star is the
cause of the snltrj^ and unpleasant weather which
is generally experienced at that time; besides be-
ing tlie author of many misfortunes, sucli as mad-
ness, broken bones, loss of property through fire,
and loss of cattle by the biting of mad dogs ! JS'ow
observe the origin of all tliis: The overflowing of
the river Nile in Egypt, always commenced when
the Sun was in the sign Leo, which it enters towards
the latter end of July ; and they not having Al-
manacks to conduct themselves by, as we have,
were obliged to make the heavens their guide of
Ihe seasons. TJiey therefore carefully watched
the situation of the Sun and stjys at that moment-
ous period when the country was going to be inun-
dated ; and they found by ol)servation, that a cer-
tain bright star shewed itself in the east, a little
above the horizon, and a little before sun-rise, a
week, or something more before the flood took
place. Now diisstar being found by experience
to be a certain sign, it was caHed Ihot^ihai is the
Dog: because as a faithful dog will alarm his
master's house, on the ap})roach of thieves or dan-
ger, so this Thoty or Dog^ that is,£)og'-5^flr,warned
the Egyptians of the over-flowing of the Nile, and
thereby gave them an opportunity to retreat to
24
places of safety. The same star is sometimes cal^
led J?? If his, that is, the Harker» This star was
also anciently cnlled by way of emphatical dis-
tiru tion, the Nile-star,, for the reason just now
stated ; and sometimes for brevity's sake, it was
simply called the JSile. Now, one of the ancient
Latiri names for the river Mle^ h Sirius : hence
this star is frequently called " Sirius, or the Dog-
star!" Is it not, then, exceedingly strange, that
this star should be friendly to Egypt, and envious
to us ? A warning dog to Egf/pl, and a mad-dog
to Europe ? We accuse it of being the cause of
Jjot and dry weather ; now in the southern hemis-
phere, the inhabitants, at the very same time, ex-
perience cold and wet weather, and common sense
must acknowledge that they have equal right to lay
the blame on the Dog-star lor causing the cold
and the wet! Between such unreasonable accus-
ers, then, what mast the poor Dog-star say to
excuse himself?
ASTRAL AND PLANETARY INFLUENCES.
ASTROLOGERS explain the doctrine of astral
and jilanetary influences, by saying, that there is
in nature a kind of thin, subtil and occult matter
or fluid, ox\ which the heavenly bodies operate and
act; and that this thin fluid acts again upon every
thing in this world below: that with regard to
man, this fluid makes an imperceptible impression
upon th(; fine fibres, which are in infinite numbers
all over the human body : these fibres aftec' the
brain, and the b^ain the soul, and thus the man
in his moral capacity is influenced ; and therefrom
his life and manners take their direction !
23
Witli regard to tliis hidden Jtuid, its real exist-
ence lias notj that I know of, ever been proved ;
llie science, therefore, which hangs wholly on it»
Jcality, may well be called an occult^ that is a
hidden science ! But even admitting the existence
of such a fluid ; the sun being so much nearer the
earth than the planets at some seasons, and sa
much nearer than the fixed stars at any season, w«
think his powerful rays sufficiently strong to blast
and thwart all their feeble operarions,with as much
ease ai!d crrtainfy as an East Imlian tornado, or a
West Iniliaii h'arricnue would overpower the
breath of an infaiit. The quantity of clothes, also,
which a person wears, must have some share of
influence (if there be any) in this matter; for it is
but natural to suppose, that those persoMs\f!io are
thinly clad, would be more powerfully influenced
than those who are warmly attired. Besides, if
ther^ were any influciice its the stars and planets,
it would be seen in its gener^d efl« cts and uniform
operations; whereas we sec in the'isame town, or
villaire, the virtuous and the vicious, the pious
and ihe profane ; and in the same house tliere fre-
quently dwell together tlie good and the b:ul.
Now, is it possii>le for star?^ to cull and chuse,
and produce such contrary eflrcts even in the same
bouse, and not unfrequcntly on those who sleep in
the same bed ? If the stars were to influence this
world at all, they would act with a general im-
pulse, as the sim in warming, the rain in falling,
and the wind in blowing, upon millions at once.
To this the Astrologer will answer, that " it is the
influence of the stars and planets at a person's
l)irth, that gives the main cast to their life:" but
by what rule will he prove that persons are more
afRcted by astral power at their birth, than at any
other time of their life? And when was it proved
26
that persons are affected at any time ? Let those
prove it that can
AstroIogcrSjnat content "with the general doctrine
of astral infiuenc^s^ have descended to all the mi-
nutiag of particulars ; they have placed the twelve
sii^ns of the zo4-ac over tlie human body; they
tell us that Arte, the Ram^ governs the head and
face; Taurus, th- BuU^ governs the neck and throat,
ore, see the A\ lanacks. The planets they have
placed over the Oa^ys of the -week. The Sun (they
say) is the planc'vfor Sunday—i\iQ Moon for Blon"
day—Mars for Tuesday—Mercury for Wednes*
day—Jupiter ijr Thursday—Venus for Friday-^
Saturn for Satttrday. They have also placed pla*
nets over every hour of the day and night; these
planetary hour ', are longer or shorter, according'
to the length q* shortness of the days or nights. It
is needless to vxplain them. These, thei^are the
materials with which Astrologers work, when they
make their lioi^oscopes."^'' or plans of the heavens,
by which they pretend toforetel fuiiire events.
Bi
BIBLE ASTUOLOGY.
»UT has not Astrology the Bible in its favour?
Gen. i. 14. is frequently quoted by Astrologers:
speaking oi tlie celestial bodies,it is said,"^;?c? let
them be for signs and for seasons /^ True,let them
be for sii^ns and i'or seasons ; but not for causes and
influences ! Can common sense see no difference
between a cause and a sign ? Those who first stu-
died the stars^particularly the Babylonians5& after
floroscope ; from the Greek words, Ora, an Ilonr^ and
Skopcoy to viev ; becans-e the hour of a child's birth is the time
when the Astrologer takti iivUw of the hftafcus ; or ofth« Signs
and Planets.
27
lliem the Egyptians, Imd no desif^n whaievcr, but
to divide lime and ascertain the seasons: (he stars
answered this ])urpose admirably well, and tlicre-
fore they served one great end ibr which the great
Creator had placed them within (lie sight of men.
The other purpose lor which God has exhibited
the heavens to our vieiv, is, that we may contem-
plate in them his wisdom, power, and Goodness.
. 2'he heavefis declare the i^lorj/ of God and the
jirmament shezoeth his handy work
When a traveller on his way to London sees a
mile-stone on the road side, which informs him
that he is a hundred miles from the city, does he
call the stone a cause or a sign of his distance?
He travels on, until coming near the metropolis,
he sees another mile-stone which tells him that he
is owe mlie from his journey's end. Now, suppose
this traveller sliotdd say, " I admire and esteem
this stone for i(s excellent naturennd kindly injlu'
C7ice^ liecausc it has caused me to be within a mile
of London; whereas 1 hate the other itnlucly and
malig7iaut stone, because it caused me to be an
hundred miles oft\" Wouh'i not every sensible
person ridicule such a one, and say to him, " Sir,
the mile-stones were not causes but only signs ; for
if there had been no stones upon the road, you
might have reached the city just as soon, although
not quite so agreeably!"
Now, we have only to consider the twelve signs
in the zodiac as the mile-stones of the seasons and
the year, and then we shall derive from them all
the assistance which God ever intended, when he
placed them in the heavens for signs and for
sna^ns.
There is another scripture which Astrologers
IQjiote with great emphasis, which is, Judges v.
^ £0. ThcT/ fought from heaven; the stars in
their coifrses fought agawst Sisera. The stars
here mentioned, are by many lliought to signify
nngeh ; because when the church or people of
God are interested in the event of a Ixitlle, there is
no doubt but that both God and anir-ls preside and
over-rule: sec Kings vi. 17. and ch. xix. 35.
And we find Job saying, chap, xxxriii. 7. When
the morning stars sang together^ and all the sons
of Cfod shouted for joy. Every one allows that
the morning stars here mean angels. The verse
therefore, quoted above, from Judges, has been
translated thus, by some. They from heaven
fought ; the stars, (angels) in their paths fought
against Sisera,
Others, perhaps with still more propriety, have
asserted that the stars above alluded to,signify the
confusion of elements, by which thunder, light-
ning, hail, and rain are produced ; because God
sometimes did discomfit the enemies of Israel
by such means, see 1 Samuel vii. 10. and
the next verse. Judges v. 21. also highly
favours this opinion, for it intimates, that the river
Kishon, which was otherwise a fordable river,
was now so overflown, as to drown many of th«
enemy : The river Kishon swept them azcat/^ that
ancient river^ the river Kishon : and it is remark-
able, that Josephus confirms this opinion, for
speaking of Sisera's fugitive army, he says, that
those who attempted to effect their escape by
crossing the river Kishon, were drowned in conse-
quence of its being unusually high, through tlie
rains that had fallen. Wherefore it is more than
probable, that the stars \\ hich fought against Sise-
ra, were storms of thunder, hail, and rain by the
ministration of angels. But even admitting the
most, the expression, the stars in their courses
fought against Sisera^ could only be considered as
29
a poetical rhapsody, Avliich was breathed out in
conformity with vulgar opinioij, just in the same
rnannerjas that notable circumstance in the book of
Joshua is related chap. x. 12, 13, where it is
said that the sun and moon stood stilL Now this
latter expression was vulgarly true, but philoso-
phically false; but, considering to whom it was
spokeji, it could not have been better expressed.
Many examples ofthe same kind might be addu-
ced from the Scriptures, but my narrow limits do
not admit of all t!ie argumentative amplifications
which present themselves to view. But 1 will say,
[ can never believe that the Almighty would teach
and sanction Astrology in one part of his word,
a.jd forbid and execrate it in another.
THE DOCTRINES OF ASTROLOGY CANNOT BR
MAINTAINED BY EXPERIENCE.
STROLOGY, it is allowed by those who pro-
fess it, admits not of a demonstration of its princi-
ples. The science is said tlierefore, to be wholly
founded on experience : by which it is meant,
that men have made a sufficient number of obser-
vations on causes and events, births and deaths, na-
tivities and complexions, to leave satisfactory evi-
dence of the reality ofstellary influences and their
effects. But to all this we reply, that observation
and experience have convinced many learned.
menontheotlierhand,that the events of men's lives
who have been born under similar aspects,i\nd under
the same planets and signs, have frequently been
as diverse in their fortunes and ends as possibility
could nivike tliem. If then experience be a suffici-
ent ground for Astrologers to believe their science,
is not experience an equally plausible reason for
J)
so
ethers to disbelUxc it ? The following extracts,
from Gassendus^ and others, will shew,^ then, how
little advantage Astrologers can derive, from their
lastsJiift, ExpERitNCE!
" I plainly atfirm, (says Gassendi(s^)\n the first
place, that Astro oireis neiiher have, nor can pre-
sage those events which concern any man's life or
death. As for aicient times, we have sufficient
testimony from Cicero ( 2. de Dhhiat.) in these
words : ' How many things do J remember^ were
* 111/ Chaldeans predictedto Pompey, to Crassus, to
^ Casar himself^ and that each of them should not
* die^ but in full old age,—in their own houses,—
* in peace, and undiminished honour? And i/et
* behold, their fates were violent^ immature, and
* tragical. So that J cannot but veri/ much won*
* der, how any man living can give credit to their
* divinations, when he cannot but observe, that
^ their predictions are falsifiedbi/ contrary events,^
*' For modern times, Sextus ab Heminga haJh
sufficiently cleared the matter to our hands; for
having proposed thirty eminent Nativities, and
reduced them to strict examination according to
the best rules of art, he declared, that the experi-
ments did in nowise agree with the rules; sad
events befalling such as were born under the most
happy and promising positions of the Heavens;
and good befalling such as the Heavens frowned
upon and threatened all the mischief and ruin unto
that can be imagined, And thereupon concluded,
that Astrologers, when they give judgment of a
Nativity, are generally the whole Heavens wide of
the truth; portending things that never come to
£ass, and pretermitting such as do come to pass.
(Ct us be contented with one eminent example.
" All histories assure us,thai Henry the third of
France died in the fortieth year of his nge coral-
31
plete, of an unfortunate wound in his eye received
in tiltiufi^: and yet see the prophecy of Gauricus^
an Astrologer, concerning him, in his prognosti-
cation of the year 1556, ' Because in the Scheme
*
of his almost divine IVativitf/, he had the Sun
* almost partilelij conjoined to Venus, under the
*
decrees of his altitude ; and also the Moon and
' Venus advancing through his horoscope, under
^
the conslcllalion Aries : therefore lie shall live
*
most happ?j and glorious, till the seventieth ^ear
'
of his age, deducting onlj/ tioo months ; and if
* bjy thefavour of God, he escape the dangerous
\i/earSf sixfj/-thrre andsirtj/-foury i /tew Semper
*
Vivet terris pientissiraus, it mil be verv long be"
*
fore there be an end of his renowned life J* Now
you'll not say, that this came very near the truth :
and yet I could fit you with other examples of the
same Gauricus' predictions, that came not nearer,
as Sextus ab Heminga hath exactly noted.
*' See, likewise, the predictionofCflrc?fif?i, a fam-
ous Astrologer, when speaking of the same King
Henry: *
lie shall he, (saith he)/;2 his old age, so
* much the more happj/, by how many more dif-
* ficulties he hath passed through before.^ And
how acutely, I pray, do these famous prophets
foresee those things which are proved by the event ?
Most admirable, indeed they are, when they de-
monstrate, that those events ought to have befallen
men, in respect of their genitures, which have
already befallen them : but when they predict that
(hose eveiits are to come, can ,xx\y thing be more
foolish, or indeed, more grossly knavish?
'* Observe, 1 beseech you, how rightly Cardan
predicted the lamentable misfortunes of men that
were his dear friends, Cheek of England, and
Jiaconet of France, and sundry others, all whose
Nativity schemes he erected with all possible ex-
d2
32
actness, and afterwards printed tliera ! I cannot
hold from noting, that John Rudolphus Camera-
rius, when writing against the aforesaid Septus ab
Heminga, he had, to declare the cert^iintj of As-
trologers, collected an hundred several gcnilures,
and among them put those of our late Kings of
France^ Henry III. and Henry IV. ; conjoin-
ing, also, the judgment of Frederick Rutelius ; as
to Henri/ III. the business succeeded according-
ly, sed j'aluni post fata canebat^ *' he foretold Isis
disaster after it had befallen him !" But as io
Henry IV. who was then living, when his century
•was published in the year 1607, nothing was less
foretold by him than the time of his death. For
though that best of Kings was murdered by a
sacrilegious hand in the year 1610, and that in
the month of Mai/^ our famous prophet r.evev
suspected the leagt danger to him in that year or
month, but cast his death upon the year 1613. and
themonthof Or?oZ>er, as threatening someimminent
danger to bis life in the nine and fiftieth year of
his age, nine months and one and twenty days, he
being born on the 24th ofDecember, at two o'clock
after midnight, in the year 1553, and that because
the Sun would then come by direction to the body
of Saturn,the horoscope to a quartile of thje same,
and the middle heaven to a quartile of the Sun.
But truly as the fate of that Prince was deplora-
ble, so was the hariolation ridiculous.
*' It will not be amiss for us here to reflect upon
somewhat of Michael Nostradamus^ my mvn com-
provincial, that relates to our present argument;
for of those so famous centuries of Tetrasiichs
composed by him, 1 have another opportunity to
speak. I shall give you only a taste of the Astro-
logy he made use of ; and if according to that he
failed most shamefully in his predictions, I hope
S3
%ve may well believe that he was not inspired by
any divine spirit or genius, such as might suggest
falshoodsto him, or put lies in his mouth.
" Being some years since at Salona, (says Gas-
sendus) in company with that worthy person,
Franciscus Bochartius Campinius, President of
the High Court of Justice in Provence, and that
truly noble man, John Baptista Suffrcdus, Judge
of that city, 1 remember Suffredus shewed us the
JVativity Scheme of Antonius Suffrcdus, his father,
with the jndgments thereupon given, under Nos-
tradamus^s own hand writing. We were much
pleased to inquire of him concerning his father,
whom he knew well; as not dying till his son was
almost arrived at man's estate.
" The father, according to that scheme, was
born in the year 1543, on the 13th of January,
twenty-two minutes after high noon, the altitude
of the Pole being supposed to be 44 (\eg. which is
more by the third part of a degree, than it ought,
but that is no matter. There were no degrees of
the Signs inscribed on the Scheme ; but the bare
Signs divided into houses after the old Chaldean
way, beginning at Aries, pertaining to his horos-
cope ; nor was there any mention of the five wan-
dering Stars, but only of the Sun referred to the
second degree oi Aquarius^ and 3Q minutes, and
of the Moon related to the sixth degree of TauruSy
without any minutes at all.
" Now the son, John Suffredus, being not able
to give us any account of those accidents, which
Nostradamus had foretold should befal the father
in his youth, as tliat in the 16th year of his age
he shouhl fall into a dangerous Dysentery, or
Bloody Flux ; that he should be afflicted with an
acute and violent Fever in the 17th year of his
life, and in the 20th fall in love, and relinqui&h
i>3
34
his studies, &c. I shall relate only such as he could
more certainly inform us of. Among other of the
Prophet's judgments, these are the most remarka-
ble. That he should wear his beard long and
crisp€dy(hut he always shaved his chin bare) that
in the middle of his age, his teeth should be rotten
(but he had very white and firm teeth to Iiis dying
^^Yi) —thol in his old age he should go almost
crooked and double, (but he went to the last up-
right and straight, as any young man whatever)
that in the 19th year of his life, he should become
exceeding rich, bi/ inhabiting a stranger^s estate,
(but besides what his father left him. he never
had any wealth or estate) that he should suffer by
the treachery of his brethren, and again, in the
S7th year, be wotmded by his own mother''s son,
(but he never had any brother, nor had his father
more than one Wife)—/Aa/ he should marry a
Foreigner, (but he married a French woman of
Salona)—that in the 27th year,he should he char-
ged with a bastard son, (but no man ever Iieard of
that} that zpthe^bth he should be overwhelmed
with the Theological Doctrine of some of his
Tutors; and that he should be so addicted to Na^
tural Philosophy and the secrets of Magic, as no
man more; as also to Geometry and Arithmetic,
in an extraordinary manner, (when yet it is well
known Jje never had any particular affection to, or
care of any of those studies, but entirely devoted
himself to the knowledge of the Laws, of which
Nostradamus never dreamt, nor of the Dignity of
a Senator, which in tliat respect was worthily
conferred upon him at Aix, in the 25th year of his
age) that in his old age,he should apply himself
to Navigation and Music, (but he never delighted
much in Music, nor was ever at Sea in his whole
life):—that he should not pass thc7bihyear^(byii h©
3|)
passed not the 54 til, of wliich Nosfniclamus said
not a word.) And these things 1 ain (he more
particular in, to tlie end that men n\i\y judge "vvhat
credit is to bo given to such predictions !
,
'' We must allow, that some one Ihingof those
many tiiat Astrologers presMgc, may percliance
come to pa-s, now and then ; and yd for all that,
it is (rcii for us to maintain our opinion, that those
events iiave other causes to depend upon, than such
a s j n s t i fy A st rol ogy
" Ch?e is Fortune, or mere Chance. Vox when
they tumble out so many judgments concerning
future events, no wonder if one or two of them
lilt rigiit. No man, as the old Proverb is, who
shoots all day, but fie may sometimes come near
the mark. Gamesters pl:iying at dice, usually in
a few tlirows cast in and in. Why, therefore, H.;ay
not our Gamesters playing with the Stars, amorg a
tliousand predictions light upon one trp.e oik?? —
Old woinen, ciiildret], and ibols, sometimes fore-
tell trutli, and why should not Astrologers haveihe
same luck ?
" But, youMl say, that others make their pre-
dictions hap at a venture, but Astrologers /Vo^2 the
rules of art. We grant it ; but yvX those rules
Avere made by mere chance, at random, without
convincing reasons : and change them how you
]}lease, still they shall pretcsid to foreslicw (he same
events.
" Will you have an illustrious example hereof ?
Cardan in hisGeniture,had Saturn in the 2l8t de-
gree of Gemini, which yet, according to the Jiu-
dolphine tables, was in the 18lh degree; Mercury
in the 23d of Libra, which was in the 26tl). and
so of (he Moon and other Planets. Now if events
ought tabe predicted from the true places of the
Planets, and yet those predicted from the false
36
places come (o pnss as certainly: you may plainly
perceive, ihat it matters not in what places soever
the Planets be, wlialsoever be predicted!
'' .4i^ain, Cardan somctinios mistakes the places
of the Planets, not only by a few degrees, but even
by ^vhole signs. For example, in tlie Genitureof
Iiis dear friend, John Cheek, he mistook the true
place of Mars by more than one whole Sign.
Will you have something yet more ^vortliy the
"wonder? Tycho Bralie (lib. de nov. Ste/la, p,
177) tells us, that both Cardan and Gauiicus en-
quired into the fortune and manners oiMeutin Lu-
tfier^ by calculating his Nativity, which both of
them fixed upon the22d of October, but differed
about the year ; Cardan taking the year 14S3, and
Gauricus the next year following : Cardan took
niso the hour of ten at night, and Gauricus the
hour of one after-noon, when the true hour was
31. And that you may not think they were in the
right as io the day of the month, I assure you they
both missed it by 19 days; for he was born upon
the ter.tli day ot November, (being the Eve to St.
Martin's dny, from whom he took I)is name) as
Tycho sets it down out of Erebus. Now, 1 be-
seech you, how great variety WoS there of the
Heavens, in so diifercnt schemes, and neither of
them near the truth : and yet the accommodation
of the events (forsooth) must be convenient ? Can
you clioose but think this whole artifice to be a
mere delusion ; a toy more vain than the canting
of common rogues and gypsies,as they call them?
Doubtless, if mere chance did not bear all the sway
in these matters, Astrologers could not either so
irequently or so duely be deceived in their
divinations!
" ^f /^'(y things (saith Cardan, lib. de judii:.
cap. 6,) scarce ten happen right^ as they are pre-*
%.
37
dieted : so ibat jou have (he confession of a most
learned Astrologer, ^vliich Oie force of truth ex-
torted Irom Iiiin in spite of his confidence. And
indeed, had not too much doting- upon the art be-
witched the man, liemis^ht more truly liavesaid,
that of f01/7' hundred predictions, scarce one is
verified. But supposing his supposition to be true,
tljat of i'oriy scarce ten succeed ; and it will follow
of necessity, tlmt chance ha'li a main hand in all
Astrological predictions, when tlie trutli oftiseni
is four times less than their falshood. 1 must not
omit to advertise you, that Cardan himself (1ib»
de Genii.) much commends that saying of Mar^
lianus ; Si vis divinare, contrarimn ad unguem
dicito ejus quod Astrologi aid poUicentur, nut mi*
nitantur : " if you have an itch to be divining, be
sure you foretel quite the contrary to what Astro-
logers either promise or Ihroalcji," For however
Cardan would have this be understood only of un-
skilful and ignorant Astrologers, yet you may
perceive what truth is to be expected from the
most learned and diligent of tliem all, among
whom he challengeth the chair to himself^ nor do
the multitude deny him that honour.
" You may find this same m?n glorying, that
he spent one hundred hours about the Geniture of
King Edward the Sixth of England, which he
made the fiist of twelve eminent Nativities: and'
notwithstanding all ^hat pains and care, he pre-
dicted nothing resembling the events that befel
that worthy Prince. For (to omit otlier things) the
Records of England assure us, that King Edward
died in the sixteenth year of his life ; whereas Car-
dan had predicted, that he should be very sickly
in the 23d, 24th, and 25th years. ' After which
Mime (says he) he shall be afflicted with sundry
'diseases, and (Mars being then his Anereta, oi^
S8
* Rcglclclc) he slialidicof a Bloedy Flux, ami a
* vioieiit Fever.' JNow dotli industry gain the
better of chance or not ? O if Cardai? had had the
luck to liave foretold that this King should fall
into some dangerous disease in tliat year wherein
lie died, what joy, ^vhat triumph, ^vhat boasting
would there have been amoni^ Astrologers? And
how would the diviner havemagniiied himself and
his art?''
Esi tracts from Air, Jiozcland.-^-'^ l^he great
Grt/t7/, the Physician^, says of Astrology, * 'Tis a
* sophibtical thin^, contrary to experience/
'* i^t, Austin^ ittmous for lenruin tj and godliness
in his time, having been addicted (o Astrology,
afterwards repents ©fit, and renounccth it, in hi»
Treatise, Z)e. doctr, Christiatm^ iib, 9, cap, 21,
in fine cr iniih capitis 22* lib words are these,
* It is magnug error, Sf magna dementia, super^
* stitio,^ <^ c. 'I'hat is, Astrology is a great errory
a great madness, a strperstition easily refuted.
^* Mr, PerA'/w.v, famous for learning and godliness,
as his works shew, hath not only a Treatise against
Astrology, (though once much addicted to it) but
also gives us his repentance and renouncing of it
in his Preface to the reader, before his Resolution
to the Ceuniry-man, His words are these : ' I have
^ long studied this art, and was never quiet, till I
' had all the secrets of it; but at length it pleased
* God to lay before me the Profaneness of it;
^ nay 1 dare boldly say, tlie Ido lathy ; although
' it be covered with fair and golden shews: —
' therefore that which I speak witli grief, I desire
^ thee to note with some attention,' &c.
" Mr»Geree, known to me to be a godly and
learned man (being Collegians in the Lluiversity)
hath a learned Treatise ag-ainst Astrology (which
39
U meji read well, ihcj cl:irc not, if iliey iuivf >u\f
trutli of grace, give themselves (o AsJrology.) His
Tiv^alisc is called Astrotogia Jjasliu\
'' Mr, Ctr^f, states (hecase ofa ?vir.r5rigs,some^
timr) Geometry Reader at Oxford,an eminent godlj
man. Of this Mr. ikig-s, Mr. Gcree gives us this
account : ^This loving'" fritiid of mine, sajs Mr.
' G'eree, upon a queslioi] moved to him by me,
* touching Judicial Astrology, told me this remark-
< ables(ory of himself : when he came to Cambridge
' first, lu; tliouglit it to be afinethingtobe of God's
* Counsel, to foreknow secrets, and resolved to
* have that knoM ledge, what labour soever it cost
^ him ; and so early applied hin)self to th(? study
' of Malhematics, begirini?jg with Arithmetic, and
^ so to Gcomelry and Astronomy ; and to lay a
' good foundation, he lelt no?ie of these arts till lie
* had attained exactness in ihc'n^, Tlie foundation
^ tiuis laid, he then applied himself to his main
* scope, the search of Judicial Astrology; but
* there he found his expectations frustrate : therr
' WAS NO cEiiTAiNTV iu the rules thereof! When
* he had tired his body and witg in vain, he was
* much dejected with the frtjstrating of his expect-
* ation. At last he repaired to a^man in Cnm-
' bridge, famous in <!»at Art, and a practitioner in
^ prognostications by it : to him he made his rnoan
' what pains he had taken to be expert iu Astro-
* logy, and how the uncertainty of the rules of
* thai art did now defeat his hopes. The Astrolo-
* ger*s reply was, that the nvhus of that axiv
' MERR U.NCEriTAIN INDKCD, NEITrti It WAS
' TiiciiE ANV cvftT: TQii If: whereupou Mr.
* JBrigs iTllnquished tlunt hludy ! And he did ihm
' afjirm to me, that hti would undertake to tin' most
^ skilful AitlroIon,cr in the worlds that lit hhn set
* doxcn cwi/ conclusion louching an_ij man or sUUe,
40
^ yea or weather, and he would prove it con-
* TH ADiCTOfiiLV; that is, both tkcd it would fall
^ out so, and that it icould not fad out so, from
' Iheir oxen rules and principles ; ^vliencc, siijshe,
' you may see evidently that tlicre is no certaint?/
'-
in the rules of that art. He further added, tliat
* his opinion was, to those that addicted themselves
*
to the practices of Divining Astrology, the devil
' Ci\i\ at lirst secretly lend his assistance; and at
' length, gradatim (that is gradually) did (unless
* God prevented) entice them into contnict.'
"
Extract' from31r.John Gaule.—*' Si. Augustine
confessed (says Mr.G.)tlii^* lie was very much in-
clined to the study of magic and Astrology ; but,
after his convcrsion,he utterly abandoned,and con-
demned them. A friend of iiis(oneFirmi!jins)and
he, v/a! king together, both of them being addict-
ed to the constellational way, Firrainius askes his
opinion of his constellation, about a secular busi-
ness he had then in hand. St. Augustine, some-
wiiat changed in his general opinion of it. told
him, that he conceived that way to be vaiu and
ridiculous. Firminius proceeded, and-told him a
story from his father, and his father's friend, two
genethliacal Astrologers, and so precise obser-
vators, as that they calculated the births of tlie very
brute beasts in their families. And so it fell out,
that his mother bare him, and the other'5 maid
brought a son also in one day, hour, & minute as
near as could be guest. But now these two (so born
alike) proved to be of various and contrary both
fortune and manners, in every respect. Upon this
relation of F'irminius, Augustine abhorred the
falsity ofnatalitial prognostications more and more
and so resolved to cast off Astrology without all
scruple : and not only so, but was instant to con-
41
vinvie the other of this vanity, from his own nar-
rtation, and thus to withdraw him from it also."
THE MOON.
JL O all the preceding arguments against Astrolo-
gical experience^ I ought not to forget the repeat-
<id experiments that have been made on Lunar
irifluence.
According to common opinion, the Moon has
great influence over many things, and particularly
over (he minds of those unfortunate people, called
JLunalics^ from Luna^ the Moon. Now, all this
supposed influence originated in similar unmeaning
causes with those of the various planets, and which
I coukl explain at large, were it not that I wish
to avoid prolixity.
A Gentleman in the county of York, who has
for many years kept an asylum for Lunatics, and
has been honoured with a great numl>er of patients,
has made particular observations on the subject
and he declares, that after many years minute at-
tention,which he has paid to the fulls shiqI changes
of the Moon, and the state of his patients, *' he
never could discover any degree of sympathy, or
antipathy, or influence, between the state of the
Moon, and the condition of his patients; their
intermissions of sanity and insanity happening in
any or all the days and hoursofthe lunar month."
This testimony is farther confirmed by a similar
declaration from another respectable Asylum
Keeper in Norwich. Here, then, is experience!
To say, therefore, that the full or changing Mooa
makes a madman, is as void of truth as fayinor
that a madman can make the Moon be at full or
cht^nge.
42
In addition to all these facts and arguments
M'hich prove decidedly thatAstrology has no chiim
to the Plea of experience, it may be generally
observed, that experience is founded on trial^ ex^
periment and comparison. Now, to make the
experience of Astrologers valid, it must be shewn
that the same position of the Planets and Signs,
uniformly produce the same effects. Therefore
we must see the posture of the heavens to be exactly
the same, at least in iuo instances, before expe.'
rience can have o??e confirmation ! But have the
Signs and Planets ever been twice in the same
position ? No, reader, never since the foundation
of the world; nor is there any probability that
they will for fifty thousand years to come! Kec^'
kerman, a learned Prussian, has stated, tliat the
variations of position between the Sun and Fixed
Stars alone, though but very f^mall, and effected in
an almost imperceptible manner, would require a
period of time not less ih^nforti/-nine t/wi^sand
years, to bring them twice into the same relative
position
And moreover, hear what the learned Gassendns
says, in relation to the whole system of the starry
and planetary heavens : —Speaking to Astrologers
of the groundlessness of their last shift, expeii*
encCf he says, '* Each single Precept or Hide
(of Astrology) ought to have been constituted upon
inanij experiments had of the certain variety
thereof', whereas we have plainly seen, that it
was n&t possible for them ever to make the same
experiment so much as only twice : because the
same position of the heavens cannot return again,
flat only after many hundreds, but also many mil*
lions ofyears /"
^
43
SEVHN MOnE ARGUMENTS AGAINST ASTROLOGY.
WjE will, then, in order to bring this theory to
the test, submit seven more arguments to men
of imbiasscd reason.
First Argument,—In both ancient and modern
history, we read of dreadful earthquakes, some of
which have instantly swallowed up twenty thou-
sand people: now, amongst so many people, there
must iiavcbeen rJc!), poor, old, young, and mid-
dle-aged, male and female, pious and profane.
There being amongst these pitiable people, an al-
most infinite diversity of ages, there must have
been also a vast variety of good and bad planctari/
aspects at their respective births ; and if an Astro-
loger had been consulted by some oftheni,only one
day before their destruction, there is no doubt but
they would have been soothed with favourable as-
pects, benign influences, and lucky conjunctions;
and consequently would have been taught to hope
fot prosperity/ and Jotig4ife!
Second Argument.—Again, "wc knowboth from
history and experience, that the world has been
afflicted with dreadful wars ; and we know thatihi
these wars myriads of people have perished. In the
present war between the French and the allies, 'tis
probable t!iat not less than five miUiotis of people
haveiost their lives ; now,amongst all tliese people
there could scarcely be a day within the compass
of eighty years, nor an hour within any,day, which
did not give birth to one or more of them ; from
wlicncc we may fairly infer, that they were born
under almost all possible positions of the signs and
planets. Yet notwithstanding these people were
bom under various aspects, in the general, they
all died the same death ! IN or can it be for a mo-
ment denied; that there are now millions in the
e2
44
world, in poacefal countries, and comfortable cip-
cumstances, ^vho were born in the same liour and
minute Avith most of the unfortunate persons, who
fell victims to the sword, or at least to a violent
and untimely death !
Third Argument,—Farther, supposing we exa-
mine a sliip's crew,we shall find men of various ages
and complexions, and that they were born under
various stellary configurations, some favourable,
and others the reverse, according to astrological
interpretation; yet we sometimes see this ship and
crew go to sea, and soon after hear of her and
crew being entirely cngulphed in the great deep I
Fourth Argument, —Once more, we are inform-
ed by that same Bible which the " Admirer" quotes,
that all the inhabitants of the world were drowned
at once, except one family; by which one would
have supposed that they were all born under the
sign Aquarius^ the water-carrier ! Now, it is said
by some, tliat there were far more inhabitants in ,
ih^ world at that time than there are at present
be that as it may, it is probable that there were
hundreds of millions, consequently they must have
heen born under almost every imaginable posture
of the signs and planets. The same may also be
said of the thousands of people who die of the
plague, or other epidemical distempers in cities
and countries. From all these observations, which
are founded on unquestionable facts, it is evident,
that «// kinds of aspects may be followed by the
same e^ent^ and that therefore they ought all to
be regarded alike, that is, 7iQt regarded at all.
Fifth Argiwient,—But lest it should be said,
that! have taken an unfair advantage of this sci-
ence, I will place the subject in another point of
view : We will dismiss the dead, and call the liv*
ing to the bar. Let us then call into view all the
45
private soldiers in the service of Great Britain ; >ve
•will pass by the myriads of private soldiers in other
parts of the world ; these private soldiers have all
the same station in life to a tittle ; their salaries are
all the same to a fraction ; they face to the rii^ht
and the left at the same time; in their marches
they almost take the same number of strides ; and
in their pains and pleasures, hardships and enjoy-
ments, there is an universal uniformity. Supposing,
now, we were to examine the nativities of these
soldiers, we should find some of them born under
the planet Saturn, some under Jupiter, ox Mars
a]id in short, one or other of them under every pla-
net ; and likewise one or other of them under every
sign in the zodiac. iM us in like manner call
under our inspection all the day-labourers and hus-
bandmen in this nation ; of these there are beyond
doubt, several Jiundrcd thousand; these men,
whose fortunes and enjoyments in life are so nearly
alike, can lay claim to alltlic variety of planetary
configurations. Let us next bring into view all
the prosperous tradesmen and merchants, in this
realm, and we shall sec what an endless variety of
signs, aspects, and configurations attended their
respective births : or sliould we single out an in-
dividual firm of merchants, consisting of only four
men, 'lis ten to one but they were each of them
born under a very difierent position of the heavens ;
and yoi it must be allowed that there is a critical
similarity in their enlerprizes and fortunes. Take
also, for an example, the East Lidia Company ;
or take all the villains recorded in, the Tyburn
Calendar—or all those, Avho, fin- their crimes, have
been sent to Botany iiay—or all the kings in the
world—or all the poets—-or all the chimney
swce])ers—or all the tall men in the world—or all
i\\e short men—or all the iDhite lookino; or black
£3
4S
looking m€n in flie world ; and let the Astiulogeiv
if he can, mskeh'is aspects, causes, and influences^
correspond with circumstances and events !
Butif after all this, it should be asserted that
planetary influence does not so much aiSect men's
fortunes as their dispositions, this would be to de-
ny in great n^asure what Astrologers uniformly
state ;
yet we are willing to rest the whole credit
of the science upon this issue. Let, then, persons
born under the same aspects be contrasted and
compared one with another, and it will be fouod
that their tempers and dispositions are as various as
their sizes and their faces.
Sixth Argument,—In all Horoscopes^ or plans
ijOf nativities which have been drawn during hun-
dreds and thousands of years, (except, perhapsy
a few very lately drawn, though indeed I have
neither seen nor heard of any) there are but seven
Planets exhibited, including the Sun and Moon l
And the following is a list of them, namely
1 The Sun
9, The Moon
3 The Planet Mercury
4 Venus
5 — Mars
6 —Jupiter
7 Saturn
!Now, reader, it so falls out, that since the year
1780, Astronomers have discovered Five more
planets; and who dares say that there may not be
Fifteen more yet undiscovered ? The following
therefore, is the present list of known and acknow-
ledged Planets, namely, *
47 '
1 The Sun
2 The Moon
3 The Planet Mercurj/
4 Venus
5 ^Mars
6 Jupiter
7 Saturn
8 The new Planet //er^c^c/ discovered in 178^/
9 Piazzi 1801
10 .
Gibers ISO'2
1 Harding 1804
12 Olhcrs the second J807
Here then are Iwelve Phinets: if then anj/ of
the Planets have nny injluence^ v/\\y not all : and
if they all have influence^ how was it possible for
the Astrologers to give true interpretations without
the use o^ all? And, as 1 liave already observed,
there may be many more Planets yet undiscovered.
If then we were to allow that Planets have influen-
ces, yet we must clearly perceive that it would be
impossible to give proper interpretations unless we
included the whole of them ; and at the same time
we must be certain that we had the whole of them !
For, if it be true, as Astrologers would make us
believe, that Oppositions and Conjunctions are of
very material consequence m lioroscopical inter-
pretations, then it is self-evideni upon their ozon
principles, that no Geniture can be valid without
the whole! It follows, therefore, that even admit-
ing the truth of Astrological principles, there has
never yet been a proper (leniture, or Horoscope,
drawn, from the days of Babylon to the present
time. For, is it not evident, that whilst Venus
and Jupiter might be in conjunction^ that //er-
schel^ Piazzi or Olhers, one, or all of thein might,
be in Opposition^and so counteract their precious
influence ?
48
Besides all this, Pray Messrs. AstroIogerSjwhat
natures or qualities do you ascribe to (liosc 'New
Planets above-mentioned? Is Herschelio bean
infortunate or otherwise ? And what qualities are
Ilardingy Piazzi and the two Olbers to have I
Pray, Sirs, let us know as soon as possible. Nor
need you be lon:^ about the business, because you
can easily do as your predecessors have done by
the old nujiiber 5cre;?, namely, ascribe to them
what qualities j'ou please, and then say and swear
liiat li is so, because it is so, which is said to be a
woman's argument ! !
Seventh Argument.—The next circumstance
which I would have the reader particularly notice,
is, iViQ ixnnn^l precessiort of the Equinoxes'^; some
say that precession amounts to about 50 seconds per
year, perhaps it may be moi;e than that, one year
with another, ^y the precession of the equinoxe s,
is meant, the receding or falling back of the eclip-
tic where \i intersects the equator. Now, three or
four thousand years ago, ^hen Astronomy was
first reduced to a science, when the sun crossed the
equator at tlie vernal equinox, he entered at the
same instant the sign or constellation, called Aries,
the Ram ; and it has ever sine« been the custom
of Astronomers to say, that the sun enters Aries,
when he crosses the Equator ; and when it is con-
sidered that they have nothing in view but to re-
gulate time, there is no manner of harm in their
* The precession (or a? some call \t^ procession )of the Equi-
noxes^ is the westerly movement which (he l£ciij)tic annually
makes v.here it intersects the Equator at the Sprinj^ anil Autuinii
Ingresses : and it is called a precession, or forward motion, in
reference to the West^ towards which it continually inclines.
But as the twelve signs of the Zodiac are reckoned from West
to East, the westerly movement of the Ecliptic's intersection of
the £q linox, is sometimes called, in reference to the signs, the
recession of the Equinoxe^^
49
gtafcmeiit, tbouglA it is a false one. I say a fal^^e
one, because in a long" series of ages, the sun has
receded thirty degrees, that is, a ^vhole sign, a-
mounting also to about thirty days of time; tlie
consequence of which is, that, when the sun crosses
the Equator, he does not enter Aries the first sign
in the zodiac, but he actually enters Pisces the
last sign ; -when he is said to enter Libra at the
autumnal equinox, he actually enters Virgo : th.e
same may be said of all the other signs, for the
sun is really always one sign behind the Almanack
statement.
Now, thoughtful reader, the evident consequence
of all this is, that the man who is said to be born
under that auspicious sign, Leo-, the Lion^h in good
truth born under the malignant sign. Cancer, the
Crab ! and he, also, who is said io be born under
Sagittarius, the Homman, is really born under
Scorpio, the Scorpion ! In short, a man is never,
now, born under that sign which he is said to be
born under, but always the sign before it. It fol-
lows, therefore, that all Astrological horoscopes
which we see, are nothing better than a cunning
device of lies from end to end ! If Astrologers be
not aware of the precession,or wester!i/ ifzclination,
of the equinoxes, which so manifestly deraiiges
their science, they are but bunglers in tlieir pro-
fession ; but if they do know it, then they are de-
signing knaves for publishing falsehoods, and de-
ceiving the unwary \ For every one must see, that
if one sign -willserve instead of another, then none
at all may do instead of the whole, which indeed
is the real truth t
50
THE REV. AV. PERKINS. .
Judicial Astrology analysed and refuted,
ly the Rev, W. Perkins, a learned Di-
line, who had ardently studied the wJiole
System: Published by Mr, P. as an
answer to a Countryinan, who applied
to him for Astrological counsel.
^3f GODreader, I have thought it convenient
(for some special causes) in this short Treatise to
disclose a part of my mind to thee concerning the
making of Prognostications, if possible to persuade
thee not to spend thy money in buying any of
tbem.
'' I have long studied this art, and zcas' never
qidet until I had seen all the secrets of the same :
hut at the length, it pleased God to lay before me
i\ieprofanenessoV\{, nay, I dare boldly say, the
Idolatry of it, although it be covered with fair
and golden shews. Wlierefore, that which I will
speak with grief, the same I would desire thee to
mark wdth some attention. My reasons shall partly
concern thee, partly the Prognosticator himself.
•^ 1. First on thy behalf T reason thus.
^* 1. As a man doth see the blessings of God
upon him, so he must also labour with a carefid
diligence to maintain the state of this life. But
because the affection of man is carriecl headlong
unto a greedy covetousness, this desire of over-
much carping and caring, must be bridled with
two strong bits. First, all our care must extend
itself no further than the present day. Secondly^
in caring we must not trust unto ourselves, but
^x all our confidence in the mercy and providence
hi
of God wbo blesselli all, and Avithout whose good-
ness nothing; can come to pass, do what we will.
" As touching the first, we have the direction of
onr Saviour C/hrist ; who teachcth us to ])ray on
tliis wise. Math. 6. 11. Give its this daj/ our dai-
ly bread; whereby we are given to understand,that
ive arc only to seek for the present time, restin<^-
with this persuasion, tiiat he whicli hath blessed
us this day, will also to-morrov, ^and the next iS^.y^
shew his like goodness unto us. Again, in the
same place, our Saviour Christ speaketh on this
wise. Math. chap. 6. v. Si. Care not tJun for
lo-morroWtfor (he morroro shaH care for itself:
sufficient Kiito the day is the evil thereof. By tliis
we huun, that God will provide for every day all
things necessary, though we do increase the pre-
sent grief with caring and casting in our heads how
wo shall live in the time to come.
" Now tell me what is the cause that thou yearly
dost buy a Prognostication^ and one of those
w liich tells the strangest things : Is it because thou
hast a delight to read the style of Prognostications ?
Or because thou wouldest learn to Prognosticate ?-
Or because the pictures, and characters, and hie-
roglyphics, which they make, delight thy mind ?
It were tolly to be persuaded of this, seeing \\\q.
very cause itself is manifest. Thy whole desire is
to till thy coffers, and to heap up wealth : thou art
afraid lest thou shalt become poor, therefore thou
greedily buyest the Prog/?05^/ea//o/?5, and conti-
nually searchest all the corners of them, to see the
state of the year to come, even thus in mind rea-
soning with thyself. ' I can never be quiet, nor
' take my sleep, until such time as 1 have known
' the state of the year ensuing, that 1 may frame
* my businei^s accordingly. This next year there
* will be much rain, it will rot corn upon the
%Jfm)
* ground, it Tpillbe spoiietl, I will keep my corm
* until the next year following. I find that com
^ will be dear about half a year hencCj I will not
* sell my corn now, but keep it, that I may have
' plenty of money for it, and sufficient besides, to
^ maintain my house. The sea and land is calra
' and quiet this year, the next year many ship-
' wrecks and troubles in many countries will fall
' now I will freight my ships, that then I may be
* quiet/
" These imaginations are lively arguments of
thy diffidence, and despair in the goodness and
loving kindness of God. If thou fear God, love
God, put thy whole trust in God, thou art content
to refer thy whole preservation unto the hands of
God : now, these proling and ranging conceits of
(he time to come, argue that either thou never
Ihinkest on God,or at the least persuadest thyself,
that either he will not, or cannot help thee. Whert-
fore seeing the having of Prognostications, com-
eth of so wielded causes, as is the greedy desire of
prosperity, and wealth, and argueth some kind
of diffidence in God : when thou readest these
my Avords, examine thine ow^n heart, if thou find
my sayings true (as certainly thou slialt) never
hereafter desire to know the state of the year before-
hand, except it be for the seasons of the year,
which lam persuaded, thou maj/st in some part
without any skill, even hy thine own experience,
^'2. Concerning the contempt of God's provi-
dence, thus much 1 say. The Progtiosticator, if
he be asked whether he confess the providence of
God, he will with all his heart confess it : but by
his deeds he doth deny it, for all the things what-
soever, which can happen in a whole year, he
attributeth them tothe^/^r^. And so he publish-
eth his predictionsj always mentioning stars, never
^ 53
')r very slenderly, making" any signification of the
pozoer, andjustice^ mercy^ and cxerlasting wis-
dom of God. And surely even for the very paring
of thy nails, for the cutting of t])y hair, for the
putting on of thy slioes, for taking a journey two
orthree mites from tliine house; for obtaining at
God's hands at thy roqu<^st, for making thy bar-
gain Avilh tliy neiglibour, for all thine actions be
they never so small : these wise men (if thou wilt
ask their advicc)will give thee counsel from the
stars.
** Now when these, tlieir religious predictions,
.shall be had in fhy bosom, and read of thee daily,
thou being a mtin unlearned and worldly given,
never henrmg any mention ol' the special provi-
dence, and hand of (lod in every thing, but lon^
discourses of the virtues of Planets, and signs,
dost never think upon the -wonderful and most
infinite power of God, workingafter aspecial man-
ner i:i every matter, but art drawn straightways
into an admiration of tlie Astro/nger^ and a great
learofthe constellations of heaven. An experi-
ence of this I found in thee, some few years ago.
A learned man (yd in this case far deceived)
"wrote an Astrolof^ical discoifrse of the conjunc-
tionbetween Jupiter and Saturn, wherein he shew-
ed of great alteration in every thing to fall.
At this thou wast sore aghast, thy mind was in-
cumbered with settling thy goods to set them iq
order against (hat day; thy song for half a year
"was nothing else, but, *' the conjunction—the con-
junction :" the day being come, what staring was
there and gazing into Heaven, to see the meeting
of those two Planets : Now all this while, where
was God's providence ? where was tliat trust and
rejoicing in him? Wlierrfore mcthinkeththat in a
Christian Commou-wealth,thosconly books should
F
54
be published for thy use, which might beat into
thy head, and make thee every hour and moment
to think on the providence of God: Contrarywise,
to tell the means which God doth use, to thunder
out the aspects and constellations of stars, and sel-
dom to mention of his providence, maketh thee to
fear, and admire, and love the means, quite for-
getting the work of God in the means.
'^ This fault was tery rife amongst the Israel'
itesy who came yearly unto Astrologers and wise
men : Wherefore that which is spoken by Jeremy
chap. 10. V. 1, 2, unto them, is also spoken unto
thee. Hear ye the word of the Lord, that he
speakeih unto you^O house of Israel: Thus saith
the Lord^ learn not the way of the heathen^and be
not afraid for the signs of heaven, for the hea-
then are dismayed at them. In like sort, God
for])iddeth his people of England to give cre-
dit, or fear the constellations and conjunctiong
of stars and planets, which have no power of
ihemsekes, but are governed by him ; and their
secret motions jind influences are Tjot known to
many and therefore there can be no certain judge-
iKcnt thereof. If thou wilt not hear and follow this
which I say, see whf»t will ensue.
*'
'J l;ou"scest that the greatest matters which
these Diriyicrs and Prognosticctors foretell, fall
out flat otherwise than they say, to their perpetual
shav?e, Tinely I am persuaded, that it is the
judoiTient of God upon theni(although they cannot
see it) vv I o mat.cth them, >Uien they think they^
Bre nest WK<(\ to he v:Gst fcols, Fo>' so the Lord
Tised i\ t V he mt I. aid Astrologers ct Chaldea, as
te S] take cl: by his pioj het hainh, chap. 44, \. 24.
I o'lr ihi hmd that ttaidc all things, that spread
oil the hiaxcns alone crd stretch cut the earth by
7nyselfy J destroy the tokens of Soothsayers, and
65
make them that conjecture fools^ and turn their
wise men backward and make their knozaledge
foolishness^ Dost thou, then, O careless and mi-
serable man, think to escape the same, or greater
punishment being a cause of this fault ; for if none
desired to know what is to comr, none would busy
themselves in that vanity. Wherefore read the
word of God in the 18 of Deut. verse 9. When
thou shaft come (saith the spirit of God) into the
Ijand which the Lord thj/ God giveth thee^ thou
shaft not learn to do after trie afwminations of those
nations In the words following, Moses number-
eth nine abominutions.
^1. To make his child go through the fire.
2 To u^e witchcraft.
3, To r 'gard times. Tfiis is thi/ fault,
4. To mark the flying of fowls.
As<^ 5. To be a Sorcerer
6. To be a Charmer.
7. To counsel with Spirits.
8. To be a Soothsayer.
9. To ask counsel at the dead.
All these liorrible abominations being rehearsed,
mark what followeth. Deut. 18, 12. For all that
do these things are an abomination uniothc Lord^
and because of these abominations^ the Lord thy
God doth drive them out before thee: now seeing
most of these abominations, and especially the
third, are used of us, why should we not fear the
like judgments upon us, unless we will repent, and
that with speed.
2. The reasons which concern the Prognostic
cator, and may avail to the persuading of thee,not
to buy any ^f their unprofitable books, as these
which follow: First, their inabilitj/ in Prognos-
E 2
56
Ucnting —Secondly, theij manifest tmtrutlis : —
Thirdly, their impieties : —Fourthly, tlieir tricks
of deceit. What ? can they not foretell that which
is to come ? can they not make conjectures of that
which is likely to ensne I No surely. i\nd I will
use arguments to confirm it unio thee.
The true use of the heavens consisteih in many
points. 1, To declare the glory of God. The
heavens (says David, Psalm, 19, 1 ) declare the
glorj/ of God, and the firmamtnt sheweth his
haridy work. It is an alphabet written in great-
letters, in which is described the majesty of (lod,^
and that by these four special points: First, the
majesty of the work itself. 2. The irifinite multi-
tude of Stars. 3. By tlie wonderful variety o^
Stars. 4. By tlie gnatncss of the sfars.
Secondly, it maketh sinners and wicked men
inexcusable before the judgment seat of God.
Rom. 1 , 20. For the invisible things of him (says^
St Paul) from ihe creation of the world, are clearli/
seen^bcing understood hi/ the things that aremadcy
even his eternal power and God-head, so thai they
are without excuse.
Thirdly, they serve to the appointment of times,
as day, night, mouth, year, which are both mea-
sured and described by the course of the Sun and
Moon, and other Stars. Gen. 1, 14. And so the
feast of the Israelites, and the computation of the
year in our Church, dcpendeth thereupon, and
without them there would be great confusion both
in the common-wealth and Church.
Fourthly, they serve to he signs, that is, to fore-
tell things to come. And they are signs either of
extraordinary things, or things which be orfi^/wfl?;y.
Wheuthey are signs of extraordinary things, then
there is and appeareth in them someextraordinarjv
work of God : as appeareth in these exarapkV.
5?
\yJiich follow, At the suiFering of Christ, not only
the veil of the temple rent^ and the dead rose
forth of their graves, Malth. 27. But also the
Sun was wholly eclipsed, tlie Moon being in the
full. At which sight, Dj/onisius Areopagita, a
good Astronomer spake these words : " Either the
frame of the world is destroi/ed, or the Godofna-
ture siifferethy The Prophet Ezek, cha. 32. v.
7, 8. beuig commanded to prophesy the destruction
of Egypt, he first putteth down such extraordi-
nary signs : Before the second coming of our Sa-
viour Christ, there shall be signs in the Sun and
Moon, and in the Stars. Lastly tlie extraordinary
going back of tiie Sun signified tli3 lengthening
of tire life of the King Jlezeldah.—Secondlij^ the
Stars are signs of general things, which happen
ordinarily every year in nature among ns.
'• I say general because the ji articular estate and
affairs ofmen can in no wise be fore- signified hi/
the stars, 1 say ordinary^ because the things that
fall out seldom, and are besides the common course
of nature, as plenty of all things, famine, plague,
war; eversions of Kingdoms, &c. Do not depend
upon the slars. For the confirming of this, I have
three reasons
** First, in the i. of Genesis v. U. 15. God
saith, that he made the lights to be signsy and
yet the same God in Jere. lO. ii. saith, Xe«ni not
the waj/ of the heathen^ and he not dismayed at
the signs ofheaven : liatly forbidding us to use stars,
as means tojudge of any thing to come,saving only
of fhosCjOf which they arc expressly made signs of
God in the creation: all which are put down before,
*' Secondly, this is manifest by the order of the
creation : Gen. 1 . 12. 14. The third day God created
upon the earth herbs and trces^ and the earth
brought forth fruits and was fertile : the fourth
f3
58
day God commanded lights to be maae in i lie fir-
'inament of heaven^ to separate the day and the
nighty and to be for sio^ns and for seasons, and
daj/s, and months^ and then it was so, and then God
sazo it was good. Out of which I gather that it
cannot bo a sign causincr famine, or plenty, or fer-
tileness, because fertility went before the creation
of the host of heaven. Also of wars, and plagues,
and the particular estates of men, they can be no
sign«, because m^n was not yet created, and yet
even then they were signs.
^' Some will say, they were no signs of those
matters in the creation, but now they may be. and
are: No, for the works which God created, be
now preserveth J neither increasing nor diminishing
any thing in them. Philo Judceus, in his book,
de opiftcio mundi, says, * he was persuaded that
^ God foreseeing t\\c minds of men, given to search'
^ strange matters to come, did in this order crrate
' the heavens, to confute and disprove their
' imafifinations.'
*' Thirdly, the heavens and stars were made for
the use of man, and man is their end ? so that it
is absurd to imagine they have any force in the af-
fairs of man. l^nw then I^rog770sfir alors, Ifihey
will foresliew of strange things to come, they must
nndothe work of their creator, and give unto it
new uses, otherwise ihcy shall not be able to prog-
nosticate as they yearly do.
*' The providence of God is his decree by which
he appointeth how every thing shall come to pass.
The continuation of this decree, is ordinarily by
means, but often without means. The means
which God usetli are either ge/icral or special.
General are these by which he governeth all the
-whole world, and every particular thing which
©oncernetb this life : unto this kind are referred
59
Spiritual creatures, called Angels, hy whom iher
Philosophers say the heavens are governed, and
Vfe see that wliolc kingdoms, provinces, and cities
liave been kept and defended by them, as also con-
sumed and destroyed.
" Again, the stars and heavenly bodies are used
of God to govern and order things here l)elow, as
it is in (he 19th Psalm, * iNothing is hid from the
« heat ol the sun/ And by the Prophet Hosea,
the Lord s[)eaketh thus, ' I will hear the heavens,
* the heavens sliall hear the eartli, the ea«th shall
' hear the corn, the corn shall hear Israel.' iint
this instrument is only a gctietrtl instrument, and
hath his work in orc/inarj/ mMiers of fialKre. —
lieside these mcaws, then^ be many other by which
God ruleth the world. In the brginnirjg he set
W7^w over the whole world, that he migh^ have
rule over fishes, fowls, and beasts, and all things
else, lie appointed hffshands to govern their
>vives; he set the firsl-born before their brethren,
as Cain before Abel. Princes over cities, king-
doms, common-wealth?, and therefore, by reason
of their dignity, calleth them Gods. There be
Govrrnorfs of lamilies. Fathers over theirt hildren,
JSJastera over tlieir servants.
" Yet God hath more near care in preserving
and governing his chosen, as a[)]5eareth in tlie Vod
of Isaiah r ' Thus saith the Lord God that created
* thee, O Jacob, and lie that formed thee, <) Is-
< rael; fear not, for 1 have redeemed thee, I have
< called thee by my name, thou art mine: when
' thou passest through the waters, 1 will be with
* tliC", and through the floods, that they do not
* overflow thee. When thou walkest through the
< very fire, thou shalt ru)t be burr^t, neitiser shaU
* the flune kindle upon tiiee : for 1 am the Lord
' thy God, the iloly One of Israel, thy Saviour/
60
This is also manifest by that sympathy which ir
in the Lord when his children are afflicted, as
appeareth by Zechariah, 2, viii. ' He whicli
< toucheth jou, toiicheth the apple of mine eye.*
And in the 9th of the Acts, < Saul, Saul, why per-
' secutesttbou me?' that is, my elect. Wherefore
there be also special means by which he more care-
fully governeth the elect. As be Angels, whom
Paul to the Hebrews calleth ministering spirits—it
is certain tlicy defend every one of the elect par-
ticularly. Hitherto may be referred the preaching
of the Word of God, the ministering of the
Sacraments.
'' All these means God's providence useth, first
that he might shew his goodness towards us : se-
condly, that he might be kijown to be the Lord
oviT all: thirdly, that we might be thankful^ be-
cause he not only himself governeth lis, but also
maketh his creatures to serve our turns. But this
miUst be noted (as I said before) tiiat in all these
secondary causes, beside their natural work which
God hath given them, there is also the special
work of God, his special band shewed. God
workrth not by second causes, as Magistrates go-
vern their common-wealthsby their inferior officers.
For they so govern by thom, that they do nothing
or very little themselves, and perad venture, never
know what is done. God governeth not the world
so, but in every particular work, he hath his par-
ticular stroke. That the thunder burneth, mov-
ethjhurfeth, it is the general providence of God ;
but that it burneth or hurteth this or that man, on
this or that part, in this or that maimer, it is the
special providence of the same G'od. The special
providence of God is clearly expressed in the fol-
lowing words : For the eyes of the Lord run to
andfro throughout (he whole earthy to shew him*
61
self strong in behalf of all them whose heart is
perfeci towards him. ^ Cliroti. 1(3. ix.
liocl goveirieth llie world im mediately, and
Ills providence woikcth without means, and many
thi/jgs !»;: hringefh to pass ai^aijist all means, wliich
is manifest by thatofJere. 10 Kxiii. O Lord, I
knoii^ that the icaj/ of man is not in himself: it is
not in man that walketh to direct his steps,
" Now to come to our Prognosticators.and Moon
prophds, how shall they be able to know ^^hat
will coiiie to pass hereaiter ? For fust, the heavens
bring only one parlicaliir instnmient of G( d's pro-
vivieuce, amongst many, they cannot certainly and
truly say, this thing or tliat thing proccedelh from
the heavens Secondly, they cannot d terminc
whether God in extraordinary mailers, as plague,
famine, barrenness, distempered weather, earth-
quakes, wars, &c. doth Avork immediately, or
with means; if witli means, they cannot deter-
mine, whether the lieavcns, or angels, or men, or
any other thie.gs be the means ol' his providence.
Thirdly, ilthey were able to know wlwt the hea-
ven -vNorketh naturallj^, yet tljey were never the
better ; for God, besides the power of the heavens,
hath in all things his particular working provi-
dence, altering, and framing, and bending as wax
his instruments to his good will.
The third Reason, the leant of Experience*
<* If our Prognosticators Imve any means to fore-
tell things to come, they have those means either
without experience^ or with experience ; if they
have them without experience, then must thou
account all which they do to be foolish dreams,
and deceit. For all kind of human learning which
is profitable, and hath use in the life of man,
is taken from often observations, and experience.
62
If it be said, tbat they have their directions in I
prognosilcating from experience, and that of all
times; true experi;^iice of the causes of things is
an often obscrvin<^ of the effects of the same causes,
with this ground, that they can proceed from no
other thing. The Phfjsician saith Rhubarb^
dolh purge Chohn\ Well, how knowethhethis?
he hath often tried th Is, and that in old men, young
men, children : aiid hath found that in the bodies
of all men, the cause of purging this humour,
could be ascribed to nothing else. Wherefore lie
may peremptorily conclude Khubarb purgeth
Cholcr. Our Prognosticaiors in tlie heavens can
Lave no such experience. For they cannot observe
oft ithf^ same position of sinrs in tlie he:iven.
The order and cause of the fixed stars and planets
which we find in the heavens one &'\y^ the next
day will be clianged, nndntver the like again.
*' 1 ht^y will say, indeed, although ihe same po-
sition of the whole heaven nev(r happen, yet the
same conjunctions of notable stars, iho. same ris-
ings and settings, and the same constellations of
ihc chiefest stars are marked often. I say again,
that when these eclipses & great conjunctions hap-
pen, the rest of the stars being otherwise affected
than they were before, and having new positions,
may either increase or diminish their eiTects, or
else hinder them,and quite take them away. As we
see when the Sun casting Iris beam>s into a chamber,
the light of candles, and torches, and fires, do
make it shine dim, yQi these being absent it will
shine bright.
" Again, they are not able to say that constel-
lations which they have marked, are causes of
those effects which follow ; as wars, diseases, dis-
tempered weather, earthquakes, famine, &c. For
in those things which happen together, the one i,s
63
not the cause of the other. W-hen Nero played
upon his harp, Rome was on Jirca yet Nero's
playing on the hfirp was no cause of the burning
ofliome,
'* Also these effects may have other causes in
the heavens than tho^e which they mark ; and they
may come immediately from God, or they may
come only from the will of man : wherefore seeing
that they cannot assure themselves that those
eclipses and conjunctions are the causes of such
effects upon earth, and as they cannot have often
observations of the course of heaven, their rules of
predictions are feigned and supposed, and not
built upon true experience.
^' Let a man w hich knoweth not one herb, take
all kinds of herbs, and put (hem into a great ves-
sel, yet so that there be more of some herbs, and
less of other some ; let him beat them all together,
and make a compound virtue of all their virtues ;
can he now tell the nature and operations of every
particular herb? can he divide and sever by any
help the virtue of one herb from another? TSo,
indeed. The same thingmay be said of tiie stars
of heaven ; all their lights, and all their influences
(as they term it) are in the lower bodies. More
plainly, every earthly body hath in it all the se-
cret pow ers, and working of every particular star
so that tliey make (as it ivere) a compound opera-
tion rising of all, or of the most of tlieir virtues
joined together. For the Astrologers hold, that
although (he light may be liiiuhred hy ihc thick-
ness of (he body, yet the heavenly influence
pierce! h tl'rough all. Therefore they are not able
to St ver, and learn the nature of these stars, vX"
cvyi ihey ran stoj, ^he influence of any star they
list, HHcl bring tlen into what compass they will,
*' Yet thus much I will grant them, that they
64
may liave a Utile kiiowledgo of tlic virtue of the
sun and moon, and some other stars; as we see
those ]iori)s in the former composition, whose vir-
tues be the chiefeifct, though not fully, yet some-
what do represent their nature, and shew them-
selves above the rest. But what is tin's to the pur-
pose ? If 1 confess t!ie operations of the sun and
moon, if 1 shall i^rant that Saturn is in his nature
cold and dry, Jupiter warm and moist, IMars hot
and dry, Venus cold and moist. Mercury in na-
ture mixed, tlie notable fixed stars in iha z( diac
to be of the nature of the ])lanets. and to have ma-
Tiifest operations, as the risins^ ofilie Dos: to make
heal and tempestuous seas, the rising of Arcturus
to uiake rain and showers, Ph?iades to be of the
nature of Mars, and the Moon, &e. what will all
this sufiice to make a prognostication ? for seeing
all s/ars have their own powers, and peradventure
also the least stars, which we make no account of,
have great effects among us, (as one grain of musk
inihc /\pot)iccaries shop m.aketh a greater smell
than all oihvr powders, be they ^ic^'er so many)
nothing will the knowledge of the operation oi'
some stars prevail, tiie rest being not known, and
never rci^arded. They will say, they have some
experience, but yet imperfect. 1 have shewed
)iow they have no true experience at all: and
their imperfect experience maketh them perfect
liars.
Thefourth Rea^aUy the ignorance of cames.
<* A man wlich will judge rightly of any matter
by the causes, must not only consider the common
causes, but he must also with them confer the ;:?«r-
iicular causes of all things which happen amongst
us, so he shall judge aright. \n heaven the stars
be common causes of all things amongst us, be-
65
cause they shew their virtue on every matter, one
way or other. The same things have their peculiar
eflicirnts, and matters, and forms, by which, and
not by ihe heavens, they are made that, whatso-
ever they are. These proper causes, because their
natures be unknown utito us, 1 cannot see how the
Prognosticate )r is able to foretell any thing tu come,
in good and convenient manner, laying aside all
deceiving and forging of untruths.
*' To make this more plain, I will use this simi-
litude. Suppose an hen to sit upon many eggs,
some of her own, some of divers other fowls ; she
imparteth her heat equally unto them all ; at length
she hatcheth, and some of her chickens are cocks,
some hens, some crows, some partridges, some
doves, some black, some white, some like and live,
some die, some are killed of the kite, some are
roasted. No man (I think) will profess so much
skill as to say, that he by considering of the hen
and her heat which is a common canse of the
chickens, and all that bcfalleth them, is able to
tell, why of this egg came a partridge, of that a
crow, Avhy this egg had no chicken, why that
had a dead chicken, &c, except l^j do therewith-
adjoin the consideration of their particular natures.
" The heaven is, as it were, an hen^ fostering
under her wings all earthly things, impaiting his
virtue and heat unto all. Can our Piogriosticator,
by the erecting of Figures, by considering the
disposilivfi of ever?/ planet iti their hoL'scs, and
the significations of every thing, judge why this
man is wealthy, that man a beggar; why this
nobleman dieth this year, none the next year
why it is gO(xl to travel this way, naught to travel
that way ; why these diseases abound, and not the
other ; why corn shall be dear this quarter, not the
next; why this week is fair and temperate, that
G
66
•week, that month, unseasonable and tempestuous*
Truly, it is a thingJlat impossible. They must
hereunto adjoin Ihe particular nature of the coun-
try, the particular causes both as to men's minds
and bodies, as education, place, honesty, birth,
blood, sickness, health, strength, weakness, meat,
drink, lilierty of mind, learning, &c, and all
other special circumstances ; which they never do,
as we may see in their Prognostications : and if
they would do it, yet they could not. Where-
fore I must needs say this, that their folly is great
in publishing their Prognostications: and thou
also greatly to be blamed, which by thy greedy
desire givestihem great occasion to bennprofitably
occupied.
" To shew more briefly and plainly of their ina-
bility in Prognosticating,Dan.2. although I should
grant that the stars have great force, yd I say
they cannot judge of things to come. And there
be six impediments.
" The first impediment is, imbecility of wit z
for as nnan's eye from the earth beholding the hea-
ven and the stars, j}erceiveth them not in their
just quantity, but as very small lights : for indeed
the Sun is more than a million of tim-cs larger than
our earth : Jupiter fourteen hundred ; and Saturn
nine hundredand sixty-six. Wi^i regard to the
Moov, it is far smaller than the earth. 'J'he largest
fixed stars are above an hundred times bigger than
the earth, the stars of the second magnitude ninety,
the third seventy times, the fourth magnitude fifty
four limes, the fifth mfjgnilude thirty-five times,
the bix^h n ag nit udc eighteen tii.«ies. So the weak-
ness of man's understandiiig is not able to conceive
and learn the things which the heavens do brin^
to pass on earth.
67
*• The second impediment is the infinite number
of stars, which, it may be have great power, al-
though we do not find it. For the Prognosticator
only makcth one thousand and twenty-eight stars,
and of these he taketh heed only unto a very few.
Whicli is as tliough a man should judge the power
of an army, by the power of one or two soL'iers
and captains, not by the power of the whole
company.
** The third impediment is, the infinite varieties
of the virtues of stars, and the parts of heaven,
which Astrologers grant to bo, yet they do not
know them. As touching the nature of the Fixed
Stars, they know nothing but by colour, which is
red, leady, white, pale, &c. resembling some pla-
net. And because they know not the virtue of all
stars, and every part ot heaven, they are not able
to judge any thing but to their own shame ; no
more than the Physician is able to know the nature
of the compound medicine, without the knowing
of every simple.
" The fourth impediment is, the manifold and
daily change of the motions, positions, and confi-
gurations of the stars : for if a man could tell both
the number and nature of stars, yet the variety of
positions breedeth trouble, and hindereth right
judgment : because by this means the powers of
itars are increased, diminished, and changed.
And these rules which served for ancient times to
foretell things, will not serve us, because all the
Fixed Stars have changed their places, and the
rest are daily changing.
"The fifth impediment is, the infinite variety of
inferior things, which do hinder, pervcrt,change,
receive, or not receive the virtue and influenceof
stars ; as the nature of the soil, the disposition and
nature of air, orders and constitutions of the com-
g2
68
mon-wealth, occasions, education, institution,
kinds of meat and drink, &c.
" The sixth impediment is, the will of man,
which freely in common matters chuseth this, and
refuseth that. There are many things which are
caused without any work of stars, only by the will
of man, as we see in Socrates, Demosthenes, and
others.
** Thus much shall suffice to shew that they
cannot prognosticate of things ensuing; now fol-^
low thtir manifold untruths, and most false rules;
in disclosing them I will keep the same order they
use in their Almanacks.
" In the first or second leaf of their books thou
shaltfind a picture of a man's body, with the 12
Signs round about it ; they call it the Anatomy of
Man*s Body^ shewing how the twelve signs have
the Government of the same, for the Moon or any
other signification of any thing being in the Sign,
they say, that it is dangerous to box, to sear that
part, or to let blood in it, which is subject to the
dominion of that Sign. All these are nothing but
vain Fables, as I will manifestly prove.
" 1. Whereas they call it an Anatomyy me-
thinks it is a butcherly Anatomy ; nay that of the
Butchers is far better, for they join head and ap-
purtenance together; tliese men being sparing,
give Aries the head ; Leo and Cancer the heart
end lungs. As for the liver, I know not which
sign '
s it, peradventure in old time, men had no
livers. At the Anatomy of a carrion, crows deal
friendly, for every one has somewhat ; but in the
divisionof man's body, signs play foul play, for
Capricorn hath got nothing but a pair of knees.
It is like that the signs scramble for tlieir portions,
Capricorn being slow, got nothing, hereupon
compassion being had, there was a gathering made^
69
and Sagittarius gave the lower part of the thigh,
Aquarius the higher part of the leg, which both
together make tho knee.
"- iJut to deliver thee without all doubt, mark
these reasons which follow. First. The signs can-
not have any sucli dominion over man's body: I
make it manifest tlius. Tliere is no corporeal
heaven in reality above the firmament, yet because
the fninament, or eighth sphere hatii many motions,
to give reasons io those motions, the Astronomers
have feigned two heavens above the firmament,
the cryjtulii.e heaven, or the first moveable or
tenth sphere, wliich they divide into twelve parts,
which parts they call signs. Now, I pray you
tell me, is it possible to conceive that an imagined
part of any imagined heaven, void of all stars,
shall either have in itself, or give unto other stars,
power to govern the parts of man's body ? More
reasonable was that man, ivho, being asked what
was the cause of the sands in Sandvvicli haven, he
answered the building up of Tenterton steeple.
'' Secondly the government of signs in the body
is not taken from experience in nature, but feigned
long ago by some drowsy pate, and now because
it liath the cloke of antiquity it is allowed. More
natural was this kind of way, that hot signs should
govern hot parts, cold signs cold parts, earthly
signs earthly parts. So Aries, sliould govern the
heart and the vital bloody not the head ; and the
rest of the signs those parts which are of their na-
ture and disposition.
" Thirdly, great experience of many men daily
confuteth this rule. For many learned pliysicians
and expert chirurgeons have by infinite examples
found, that if a man be let blood in the sign, or
lanched, or boxed, or seared, no harm ensueth,
uay they have given testimony that the patients
g3
70
tave found even then great comfort. Wherefore
let not these things trouble thy rainU any more,
but let them be numbered even am.ongst vain and
unprofilabie fables.
" 2. IV'ext after followetli Jelections^r choice) of
days &hours necessary for all matters, as followeth.
" Special days to prepare humours—let blood
purge "with vomit, electuaries, potions, pills—cut
hair—comfort the virtue attractive, digestive, re-
teiitive, expulsive —bathe—put children to school
•
—travel—-marry—hunt, ha^vk, fish
—plant—geld
cattle—lay foundations,
** here 1 pray thee, maik their naughty dealings,
how they abuse thy ignorance to make themselves
skilful and to do more than they can do. For, if
the judgments of the best Astrologers may be tak-
en, certainly most of these elections cannot be
prescribed to thee, unless they know before-hand
the figure of thy nativity. For all elections which
concern thy person, must be moderated (to speak
as plainly as their toys will suffer me) by the di-
rection of the root of thy nativity, and by the
monthly and diurnal progressions of thy present
revolution. ]f any of these pretend some evil, the
particular election may be a means to increase &r
to bring it to pass.
" For examplcj suppose thou being a man to-
ward marriage, in the Almanack thou findest a
good day noted by the jirognosticater to marry in;-
thou takest thy opportunity ; after a while, thou
art weary of thy life; the i!rst day of thy mar-
riage was the last day of thy joy. What is the
cause of this T All the planets which were signi-
fiers of thy marriage in thy nativity, were then
badly affectedjand peradventure also, at the instant
thou wast born, they received some disgrace. So
then thou mayest lay all blame partly upon thy^
71
self for believing, and partly upon the prognosti-
cator Avho deceived thee.
" But to come unto particulars ; the eleclions of
days to purge the body \vith any kind of purga-
tion, and to comlprt the same, are most ridiculous.
Why do they not also prescribe hours of eating
meat? Why do they not appoint the kinds of
meats and drinks which we mu1^t eat and use daily ?
If thou see that God doth daily bless the enter-
]>rizcs of those Physicians which never regard
those elections in ministering to their patients, ne-
ver esteem of them, lei them go as lies io the devil
from whence they came.
" Concerning the election of days to sow, to set,
to plant, to lop, they arc also foolish : the general
observation of the season of the year in w hich these
things are to be done is sufficient. And St. Au-
gustine in his book de crdtate Dei langhcth at
the foliy of them which choose particulardays to
do their husbandry, as though some certain posi-
tions of stars had some special influence to the
tilings which are sown then. His reason is, be-
cause many grains of corn being cast into the ground
together, springing up together, and ripening all
at one time, yet some of them are blasted, some
are eaten of birds, soii:ie are trodden down under
foot, some stand and are never touched.
'* The rest of the elections, and especially that
of laying toundations, are most absurd. They
say, that if a house, a city, a town, liave its foun-
dation hiid when the stars be well affected, the in-
habitants sliall have prosperous and quiet living:
if when the stars be evil disposed, then trouble and
disquietness. They have no experience of this,
but that only which is most false, for they know
not the foundations of cities and towns, neither the
positions of the stars when they were built. Ix^i
72
Rome Slid Venice be examples, because these are
most alleged of Astrologers, The time in which
(hey were built is uncertain, and the planets are
falsiy set in (he figure of the foundation of Rome,
because Mercury is contrary (o the Sim, a thing
flat impossible.
" Again, (he folly of (his is thus manifest, that
a house, or city, or commonweaUh may remain,
(he people being gone ; as it is in the (ime of
plague, bani5>:hmen(. nnd conquests of Princes.
And (he inhabitants also may be safe and remain,
the building quite overthrown, and beaten down,
as we may see in Carthage, the people and com-
monwealth remairiedy the eity quite defaced. That
all elections, or choice of hour&, days, &c. are un-
lawful : St. Augustine, writing unto Januarius,.
l)rovcth out of ide fourth chap, to the C^alatians,
hy thesrc words : Ye observe Dionths^ and times^.
and 1/ earsy (therefore, saitii he) /c/ us not obserxie
days and years^ and months and timesy lesi we
hear this of the /Jposiles: I am afraid lest I
have taken labour in vain zcith you: tor he re-
buketh them which say, I will not go, because the
Moon is thus or thus situated ; or I will take my
journey that I may have good success, because
there is such a position of the stars ; I will not do
my business this month, because such a star go-
Yerneth this month ; or I will do n)y business this
month, because such astarruleth.
'^ How then shall a r^^n d^^ not to break the
word of God ? Art thou a man that desirest to
lead a Christian life? Then lake the example of
Paul, Rom. 1. x. as a pattern to govern all the
actions of thy life: without ceasing (saith he) /
make mention of you in my prayers : beseeching
that by some means, one time or other, I might
kave prosperous journey by the will of God t9
73
Come vnto you. So thou, if thou hast any business
in hand, any journey to lake, any thing to buy or
sell, or any other matter : never regard the con-
stellations of hcavi^n, commit thyself to the only
providence of God, in whom tiiou hnst thy life,
and motion and being, -vviio directetliall thy steps :
pray unto him privalcly ^vitli thys If to bless thee
and all thy actions, that thoy may tend to his
glory and thy welfare 5 Ihou shalt find that thy
whole en(erpriz;s vv ill have W^U^x success, than if
the whole host of heaven and all the l^rognostica-
tors of England hud promised thee never so much
prosperity.
" Now let us shew their absurd folly in prog-
nosticating of the state of the year, of which i^eir
predictions are either general for the whole year,
or special lor every day. In their general |)rndic-
tions are considered either the grounds of them,
or the matters which they foretell. Their grounds
arc especially two. 1. The figure of the revolu-
tion of the year, erected when the Sun entereth the
iirst minute of Aries. 2. The figure celestial for
the time of the eclipse of the Sun and Moon : for
upon these twain, say they, deperideth the whole
state of tile year. In their celestial figures they
consider the erecting of them, and the finding of
the Lord of the figure. The erecting of the figure
containeth very many absurdities.
" 1. They follow that way which Regiomonta-
nus did invent, and which was never as yai proved
by any experience, and flatly diftbring from those
ways which the ancient Astrologers used : and
were invented by Gazulus and Campanus. Nay,
oftentimes it maketh a planet or fixed star io sig-
nity a flat contrary thing to that which these two
others do.
rr^.
i
^^ 2. xhe casting of tlie heavens into twelve
parts, signifying twelve distinct kind of matters is
ridiculous, because it being imagined, and void
of stars, can have no force. Vet (some will saj)
other stars being in those places may have or sig-
nify sucli or such effects. I answer, that if stars
of divers natures coming to such an house always
signifying some one kind of thing, then the house
must of necessity give some force unto the planet
and so it shall have not only an aii£rmenting, but
also an effectually working pawer, which Astrolo-
gers deny, and no reason can prove.
''
3. They make the twelfth and eleventh houses
being higher above the horizon then the first, to be
of lesser force thaii it: and the fourth house to be
of greater power than aisy above the horizon not
cardjval; and the end of the ninth to be more in
powecthan the beginning of the eleventli house ;
all v'hich arc against reason, because a planet the
more perpendicular his l3oams are, the more his
force^ Tiiey answer although the force of the
light be greater,, yet the secret influence is less,
and the fir-st house hath more forcible influence
than the twelfth or eleventh. If the influence be
seen f, how can they know iil Again, ihey can
by no good experience shew tliat those liouscs have
more infiu.^nce than tlie rest : tins inflijence maketh
against them. I say they cannot prognosticate
because they know not one star's virtue. For
"wliereas they say, that the Sun^and Moon and pla-
nets have most force, I answer that it is by reason
of their light, not their influence which is small,
and there is far greater in the smallest fixed stars.
So that the fixed starsalthongh they have no light,
or very small light perceived, yet they hnve most
influence. And so (hese men must needs dream
because they judge by wrong causes. Well, their
^1. Houses of Plands. -
2. Exaltation.
3. Triplicity.
4. Terms.
5 Stars.
, 6. Houses.
17. Freencss from combustion.
8. Directions.
9. Velocity of course.
JO . Cazimi.
11 . Some aspects of other
^ planets.
75
figure beini^ framed, and distinguished by fair cha-
racters, (hen go they on io find the Lord of the
figure, that is, that planet ^vhich has most dignities
in the figure.
The dignities of
the Planets^are
found out hi/ -^
these ineans cs
pecialfj/,
" These toys be so foolish, that a reasonable man
would not vouchsafe to refute them ; yd a word
or two. If llie houses of the planets sliallbe bat-
tered and pulled down, all the rest of their
worship and divinity ^vill lie in the dust. Aries
and Scorpio, are appointed the houses of Mars ;
Taurus and j.ibra, the liouses of Venus ; Gemini
and Virgo, tlie houses of Mercury ; Cancer, the
house of the Moon ; Leo, the house of the Sun ;
Sagittarius and Pisces, the houses of Jupiter;
Aquarius and Capricorn, the houses of Saturn.
AV hat reason do tliey give for all this ? Leo and
Cancer, say they, are the Iiouses of tlie Sun and
Moon, because they resemble the nature of these
planets, and because they come most near our
heads: such reason they give of the rest. What
feeble grounds are these . As in the North part of
the world, Cancer and Ja'o leseuiblc the nature of
the Sun ; so in the south part; in the contrary cli-
76
mates, Capricorn and Aquarius do resemble their
natures. Also in every country some divers signs
be either verlic;'.!, or else come near the top of the
countiy : aiid so all signs shall be the houses of
the l?^un iiUi} Moon. Now then, the Sun being
disphicvd, 1 cannot find how the rest of the pla-
nets can keep their hold.
"• To go fuithe;, the exaltations of Planets in
like manner are very dreams. They snppose ex^
altalums be those degrees in which the planets
were at the beginning of the world. But why
should those places give more torce than any
oth^r ? And ifthey could give more force, yet
they have lalsly assigned them : lor the Sun was
not in Aries when it was created by God, but was
placed in Libra ; which I prove by this reason —
God created man and beast in perfect age, giving
unto them all kinds of fruit being then ripe, so that
in the beginning was the time ot the year which
we call harvest. Now, because God never after
changed the seasons, and we find that in the time
of ripeness the Sun is always in Libra, we must
need also say that his place in the creation was in
Libra. In the 25'J of Exodus God commandeth
thai the feast of In-gnthering should be celebrat-
ed in the end of the year when the Israelites had
gathered their fruiis out of the fields. Wherefore
it must needs be that h'u vest was in the beginning
of the year (the beg,inni!ig and the ending being
both together) aud so by counting backwards, we
shall find that the Sun was in Libra in the begin-
nini> oi the world. To this 2igxQti]x Jostphus de
antu'untf^ Lib. 1. cap. S. Jiubbi Eleazar upon
Genesis; iiud JtabM Jbrciff am Abcn Esra, upon
the 7th oflJanieh
" The'rest of the dignities of the planets consist
of principles more weak than water. First, what
77
is more unreasonable to a rensojiable man than this,
that switt motion siiould give unto a planet two
dignities, and slow mention two debilities ; it seem-
etii to be plain contrary. For a swift course Iiin-
dereth the force ot" the planet, a slow course help-
eth the same ; afid the stations of any planet make
an effectual and sensible operation. A coal of fire
.in a man's hand if it be shaken about very much,
it hcatefh very little, if it be sliaken more slowly,
it heatith more; but it it lie still, it burnelh
violently.
^' Cofnbustior?, is \n lilie sort a feigned thing.
What reason can Astrologers give, why it should
give unto a star five debilities? Thry talk how
that experience teaches them, that j^lanets beifig
under the beams of the Sun, do lose a great, nay
(s.iy some) all their force. It is a manifest untnilh.
For Mercnjy being of the nature of tliat planet
with whid^ it is cotijoined, if he go from conjunc-
tion with Saturn nnt» the Sun, hegetteth no debi-
lities thereby, but rather losing the feeble and un-
fortunate nature of Saturn, recciveth a more strong
and fortunate nature of the Sun.
" A planet also being in Cczivu^ that is, bein«^
within sixteen minutes of tlie Sun's middle, hath
thereby five dignifies, which cannot well be, if
that Combustion give five debilities For the pia-
uet is in the middle of his Coiiibustion, and the Sun
casteth his beams and torce very vehemently upon
it. These Suns shew how absurd a drv^am Com-
bustion is : yet if it were a good and soul J prin-
ciple of Astrology, and gave unto every planet
five debilities, sidl it could )!ot be proveJ, that li-
berty from combustion should give five dignities,
being only a mere absence and privation of the
oi\nix. A magnet at the presence of the adamant
is hindered from drawing iron, yti if the adamant
be taken away, Hut atdactive virtue of the Magnet
is not ijicrenscd. Here I miglit with ease confii'.e
the (riplicilics of phuicfs, directions, aspects^ ap-
plications, prevention:-, refrenntions, with many
suchlike; Ijut my intent at this time is only to
shew thee some untrntlis of our Proirnosticators
" Thus mucli ot'the grounds of their predic-
tions, now follow the matters of wliich they prog-
nosticate, and they are Terymany: nay, tliere is
no matter, almost, of which they ^\\]\ not give their
verdict : but how tliey do this i will briefly make
itmanifiest untoth<e, that their lies and their un-
chistinn dealing may be more loathed by ilnc.
" I, They by comets, foretel earthquakes, fa-
mines, and j;lagues, &c. but they do it as the
blind ma?j caateth his staff, he knoweth not where.
No man as yd ever knew the true cauf?es of tliese.
*
As for comets and blazing stajs, they do hot rise of
the influence of any stars, neither are they any
earthly things, but are in heaven, most commonly
far above the xMoon, as by Geometrical and Astro-
nomical d<Miionstrntions may be proved : how this
Cometh to pass tlie Lord only knoweth. And surely
they do thee great injury, that when as no doubt,
God doth ligljten them.aiul send them forth extraor-
dinarily, as threatening tokens of his sore displea-
sure, yet tliey will rock thee asleep in the cradle
of security, by telling thee that such tokens come
from tlie ordinary course of the heavens.
*' 2. ^i'hey foretell all things which happen In
'
civil afTairs amongst men, as these which follow :
TIZ.
'* Love avd haired of IdnsfaU:—marriages—
iiurerse of farms and things—injinie^i and quav'
rels-- raising of rents—exacting of subsidies In/
ojfici / -/rz/se rinnours—imprisonmnent heird
ipAreaiing of Ecdesiasiical persons—-hn^ing^ stt'
79
///z.g", unilerminiug—the sUidijing of scie72ces—
frif^nds fall out for trifles—Solemn progresses—
favour of noblemen—men shall fall, body and
goods', into the prince's hands—merchandise un-
profit able J
S^-c
*' Tiicse and such like proc( ct^ only from the
"will of man: the consirlhilious ot" stars arc neilher
siii^ns nor causes oF llicni. Some will say, iVon
impimere neccssitate?n^ scd inclinare SteUas, that
is, that stars do not constraijj, but only incline tlie
minds of men: a most wicked sayins^; though
very commonly asserted and defended. For
th(^ inclinino' of the will of man is only the
work of God, as the Holy Scriptures do teach
us. A man'^s Afor/ (says Solomon) deTiscth his
zoai/ : but the Lord direclelh his steps. Proverbs,
16, ix, () fjord, (saith the prophet Jeremiah)
/ h/iozo that the w iij of man is not in himself:
it is not in mar? that zcalketh to direct his steps:
Jeremiih, 10. *23» He speaketh this, b cause
that Nebuchadnezzar purposed to have made war
nfriiinst the Moabites and Ammonites, but hearing
of Zodekiairs rebiellio \, he turned his power to go
against Jerus ih'm, theretore the Prophet saith, that
w hereas he had otiierwise purposed, yet this was
the I.ord's inciiiration and direction. Again, in
tlie Proverbs we read this ; that the hcnrl of the
King is in the haffds of the Lord^ as the Uivers
ofwcder he dfrectcLh if whifher he will. Pro, 21. i.
'' It will be said,, that aldiough God properly
and immediately inclineth the will of man, yet
also some small inclination must be given unto the
Stars, and (hat iminediately. For say some,
" Constellations work upon the Elements hi/ the
four first qualities.
" Elements work upon, and alter the compound
bodies and humours of the human frame,
II 2
so
" Compound bodies by their qualities chan-ge
the senses.
*' 1 he senses being altered^ the understanding
is ahered.
** The understanding lastly altereth and inclin-
€th the will of man,
** 1 here fore constellations incline the zsilL
*' This reason is not much unlike that which the
drunkc^n man makcth, h^xs'mg as well for the de-
iance of his vice, as the former for approving of
knth iii divination.
* * He zskich drinlceih well, sleepeth zcell
He zi'hich sleepeth well, thinketli no harm:
lie which thinketh no harm is a good man :
Therefore the drunkard is a good mait.
*' The deceits and untruths which be in their
reasons, are very many,
" The stars work upon men's bodies, yet so that
the nature of the country and soil, the meats and
drinks have most commonly greater force. Why
are (he bodies of Gentlemen ot lingland and poor
labouring men of divers dispositions? Are they
not both in one country ? Do not the stars shew
their force in tliem all alike ? Yes truly; but the
kind of life and diet prevaileth. In the same re-
gion—Why are they which dwell upon hills, of
other temperatures then they which dwell upon
plain and champaign ground ? Why do not the
.same influences of stars make them of like natures ?
Is it not because the nature of the soil prevaileth ?
So then, seeing there be many causes efibctual, and
differing in altering men's bodies, to build an ar-
gument upon one cause is most unreasonable.
" Inone word, the judgments which are set down
of the weather, they are more tolerable than the
*est i yet as lon^ as the world endureth^ no ma*
81
shall be able to prognosticate truly "what weather
shall be i'l every day of the year. The causes of
this f liave s 't down before, a/iJ need not now to
repeat. Wherefore i\\i'.y mi'^ht leavj off uiy long-
er to busy themselves in I 'lis kind. And it shall
be sulBcient for thee, leading a christian life, to
know the general and ordinary state ot the parts
and seasons of (he year.
" But if any man refuse (he grace of God, and
will not embrace the true relii^ion, it ])roceedeth
from the hardness of his f»wn heart, and wilful re-
bellion. Seeing, therefore, the rebellion of marl
cometli from, his own wi'l^ how can As(rologer>'>
prcsune without great inpiety to adjoin the con-
stellations IS assistants either U:i(o man or God in
this divine work
. " Agaifj, thi'se pr. dictions are very perilous, for
if a mm be wickedly given, they hi uler him from
the acknowledging of his sin, bcciusethey make
him lay part ot his faults upon the stars, whereas
all indeed come iVom ins own soul : and if a man
be a penitent sia'v^v, and. f cl (he grace of Go !, yet
being weak in faitii aiicl conscience, tiiey make him
not {^ put his whole trust in Gjy^^ and (o love him
with all his soul, with all his strength, but allure
him in s mie part to attribute that unto the stars
which is t.'ie only ^vork of God, and not of any
crea(ure.
" A Ju2r2:ler which takeih U'oon iiini to do strange
things, must tise many sleigli-s, least if the slander
by s'laU see his tricks of legerdemain, & he be des-
cried, and all his former cunning turn to his shame.
Our Prognosticators iinderstanding tliis, have
thougiit it convenient to use in their kind some
tricks of deceiving jugglers : I can call them by
no better mnie, for so llicy are indeed. First,
publishing their predictions in thy behalf, thev
ii3
Ifse such absurd, unknown, and insolent words, as
(I think) never the like were read or heard amongst
us in England : as are these which follow :
*^ 1. A Prognostication iistrologicallycalculatf'd
for the Pole Arctic for such a city whose longitude
and latitude is thus.
"2. Quartile revolution.
*' 3. Rectified for the motions and aspects of the
meridian and elevation
'* 4. Capricorn in nature cold and dry, melancho-
ly, in taste bitter, nocturnal, feminine, meridional,
of the earthly Trigon.
*' 5- Mercurialists, Jovialists, Martialists, Hiema
Solstice iTCstival, Verval, Autumnal.
" 6. Pars torturaB, coupled with Dragon's tail.
" 7. Taurus a Sign ot the earthly Trigonism,
naturally cold in the sign lioroscope ; and Virgo
of the same stamp, the sign of the prevention
preceding.
*' 8. A sign of the same triangularity; Jupiter
Lord of this revolution resident with Venus in
domicilio ab Angula cadente.
*' 9. Planets retrograge.
*^ 10. Cardivalor a succedent position.
*' II. Lu nary defect.
" In Ids Dodrcatimorian.
*' 12. Names of stran£re authors ; Proclus, AI-^
thindus^ jMcssahala^ Zaef^ Albohazen Jlali/^ Al-
humacer\ Jlbubater^ Guido^ Bontius^ Hispaleu^
sis, Fhmlits^ Abraham, Avrriezra, Trismegistus
with many other wondrous doctors, having a great
deal of small learning, and being far feorn, as iu
Chaldea., Persia, Arabia, Jewry, &c.
" Thou wilt say, what means all this ? Here is
^reat learning no doubl, it passeth my capacity:
who would not haye an Almanack, if were it for
83
liolhing but for this, to see and hear how profound
our Prognosticators are.
" Tliou far (IcceivesKhjst'U'; for they perceiv-
ing well, that tlicur deceits and lies may be soon
espied, have invented strange terms to colour them,
and to cast a^mist before tliine eyes, that tliou mayest
not see their nauglity dealiiig. For any man tlu
more true and honest he tiiinketh his matter, the
more desirous is he to speak plaiidy to the under-
itanding of all.
'^ li was a point of the knavery of the devil,
otherwise called Apoi/o^Mheii the h(;af hen men ask-
ed his counsel, lo answer doubtfully ; because
though he was ignorant of the evi nt,yel would not
but seem to know ; as in this answer :
*"'
I tell thee Pj/rrhus the Ro)naiis may conquer.
" It is understood two ways ; either that ^'Ec!-
des might vaiujuisli the fionnin;'!, or the UonuuiH
filicides. Our i^rognosticators havecliosena very
good pattern to follow, their dealifig with iheo i>j
the like; when tiicy vloubt, and cannot tell what (o
prognosticate, then they use two ways of foretel-
ling: either io speak thrit \yhicli is true e'oe.ri/
waj/, or that which is true even/ jj car ! For {\\{i
fiibt, amongst maiiy other exansples, 1 will put
one or I wo, that thou mayesL see their iFulTng in
true, not Ibrged examples.
'' L The conjunction of Mars and Saturn threaten
wars, but Jupiter witl mitigaie the same ," as if a
man should say, the Prognosticutor telieth truc.^
except he tell a lie !
*' ^. This 3^ear we shall have a very dry win-
ter ; but if peradventure any floods and store of
rain iU) fall, they shnll proceed ol lormer causes.
3. Thissummer quarter is like to be for the'
u
fe
84
greatest part dry and hot, yd it is neither to be
too hot, nor two cold, but indifferent.
" 4. Neither fair nor foul, but both together.
'' 5. Fair and calm, but alitlhi niij^ling.
"6. Clouds portending rainand snow.
" Examples of those predictions which may
agree to excry 2/ ear^ are cominon to ihem^ as these
following :
'* 1. This year artificers must take heed of two
mucli straining their backs.
" 2. Take heed of venturing in slippery places
boldly,in building.
'' 3. Old nien'^shall die.
" 4. Death of sheep and other cattle this year
shall be.
*' 5. Sundry diseases are like to reign amongst
men, which will sweep away many.
^* 6. Fal^c rumours, imprisonments, tortures.
'• 7. Brethren and sisters shall love one nnother,
*' 8. Sundry men and women shall be troubled
ivilh pains in the eyes.
*^'
9. Tvlucfi slrileamonp'st men and women.
o
'' 10. Small love amongst kijisfolks.
'* 11. Much unlawful lust this yearj and secret
fornicaHon.
" 12. Some ecclesiastical person shall be in
trouble, and some nobleman shall die." N.B.This
is ever at one place or other!
"IS. Many shipwrecks and other stirs on the
seas.
'' 14, Many shall addict themselves to the studj
of necromancy."
S5
ANECDOTES OF FOIITUNE-TELLING,
FOilTUNE-SEEKlNG, &c.
TflE CONJURER^ AND THE POOR MJN Ayn
/US pja.
N (lie Spring of 1803, a Poor Man, living* near
JiuUlax in Vorksliirc, wishing to imitate the in-
dustrious ant, by layin^- up something in the warm
Sununcr against the cold Winter, ext rted iiimself'
to the utmost of his ability to raise mouey for thl»
purcliase ol a pig, with which, no doubt, lie
intended to fea^t his family the ensuing Winter.
Having by industry, parsimony, and ihe htdp of
friends, amassed a sum of money sulficient for the
accomplishment of tlie much-ilesircd and long-
meditated object, the Poor Man went to some dis-
tance to make his purchase. 'I'he purchase being
made, he set out tor home with much more haste
than prudence ;- for, coiitemplating his purchase
with great ap{)rehensions of future least ing and
felicity, he gave way to tlie reveries and whims
of an inflated imagination to such a degree, that
he forgot the walking abilities of the })oor littiu
short-legged animal, and therefore he drove it at
the rate o\ four knots an hour, ir.stiad oi' two ! On
his arrival at home, all was exultation and joy:
the wife praised the little pig for its handsome
cars and pretty curled tail ; the children laughed,
patted it with their little liaruls, and the Poor Alaa
himself, stood over the whole with a smile of
complacency.
But,alas ! this world is remarkable for its short-
lived joys, and its long-lived sorrows : all the joys
•f the Poor Man's bouse were quickly turiied int»
niouniinf]^—for —the poor over-driven plij; lay
down and refused (o eat ! Tl^e Poor Man and Ins
"wife knew full well that it is not the practice of
pigs to refuse meat when they can eat it : for,
whatever else may be .said to the disgrace of the
" Swinish Mnltltade," they arc not hypocrites.
The ahirm for the pig's life now became very great
the w lie w'ls distracted, the chiUlren were fright-
ened, and the Poor Man looked pah;
in this fiicfuisidie of tilings, sonK^tking must be
done: the Poor Man and his wife had just forti-
tude snilirient left to hold a eonsuitrition. The
result was, that the Poor man should take the few
remaining shillings in the house, and go to a tslse'
man^ alias a planef ruler^ who lived in that neigh-
bourhood, and enquire of him what would be the
fate of the j)ig ; ani^i^Jip what means might be
used for ils restoration to health and caMtig. He
accordingly, and immediately, went to the Star
Gazei'.
The Poor Man having stated to the rcifte-man
the purport of his application, the latter immedi-
ately looked over his books: examined the pos-
ture ot the heavens in ihe horo<irope ; and having
duly considered the ^.vrTWC^^/?/, the Succederit, the
Caf/fnf, the Digniitcs^ the Dehililies^ Quarliles^
TripluHies^ (Mzimi^ ( omhus^iion^ &c. &('. he,
like a truly msc man., was still too xsiseXo give a
decided opinion ro«^)ecting the fate of the poor
pig ! But the conjurer kne%v better than to app; ar
any ways puzzh d with the business: he therefore
wrote something on a scrap of paper, aye, who
knows wha* ! and havnig tblded if up, he looked
"wmdrouswise, and {\wm presented it to i\\(t poor
Man, witii liiis ve^y interesting counsel and infor-
mation —" I'ake this (said he) and go hoine, and
immediately hang it about the pig's neck, with a
string; and if after Iha*, (he pig should tAc to
eating again, it will live; but it' it sIjouI.I not take
to eating again, it wUl certainly die!!!" lor
this very itiiporl(i)it information, the zoiac-nian
chariiced the Poor \Jan only seven shillings!
It has be 'H said by moral philosojdiers, that no-
Ibing sus|)ends the functions of reason more than
excessive fear ; audi tiiink it is Jludibras who
siiys, that
'• Fear ({oc< fh??igft so L'kc a zoilch.
''I'is hurd Utjind out n-h/chis ic/i/c/i."
-
If fear nere not a befooling passion, ihc Poor
j\1an might have seen himself the silliest dupe up-
on eaith,for payi?ig ^^rif?/ s/ii/lh?^;s to know (hat a
;7/V?//?g pig would die, hnd :.u} <?«//;?g pig would
live However tlu' poor man'tool; honn the won-
deriulr/????//^/, and, according (o tljc instructions
lie had received, be hung it about the pig's neck!
In this business 'je very liltie resembled Hudi-
bra?^'s^' ffllrf}.''
The poor latigued animal bcinir w( U refreshed
with rej-f, rose on to its <eet. a«'d b gau to eat in a
pig-like manner. Th" Poor Man, then, fear being
removed, begins to feel ih:\t reason resumed her
en}pire, and tliat he had acted the part of the ve-
riest idiot, in paying seven shillings io know ^vhat
mere common sense couhl not but h ve known.
He therefore went again to the wise man, and re-
quested that ]iis money might be returned: but
lie found that the rsr/AT-?;?^/;/ was not such a fool as
himself had been : the (Jonjurer kept his money ;
and. no doubt, the Poor Man would in future ui;-
derstaiid both the naiare of pigs and the value of
money better tlian he bad (hme. With regard to
the [)ig, it lived till it died a Violent death, as fat
pigs commonly do.
83
WASlilNC-TUB.
A FEWyenjs a<^ro, lljrre lived at Sl^'fiieU) n
i;rin(lrr of riitlcrv, who had rendered liiiuseli
i'nmovis bv his knowledgo of Astrology, Fortune-
Tclliiijo:, and Iheir various accoinpannrionts. ]ri
coMsrqnriice of vdnch, he had many ap]^licatioriS
iVoni the ctrrioifs and thu (list ressrcL hut jjarticular-
Ij from the latter. Pyfany who Imd the niislbrtunc
to }{ave an article stolen of the value of live or ten
shillings, feeling themselves chagrined at their
loss, and burning for vengeance against tlie thief,
made immediate application to this zcise-num^ for
information, both respecting the ]ierson of the
thief, and the probability of regaining what they
had lost. Thefjc applicants were seldom dismissed
without some kind of an enigmatical answer, for
which they generally paid a shilUng. These
answers were commonly couched In some such
language as this,*' The peison who has stolen your
goods does not live at a great distance from you.V
" It is a person whom you have often seen, tJiough
you have not any friendship with them." Or,
''The person who has robbed you has a thin visage,
dark coloured hair, and is about the middle sta-^
ture.'' &c. &c.
It fell out, however, in the vicissitude of events,
that some vile wretch, being under the influence
of a bad planet^, no doubt, and by no means in
conju7i(tion with, but in opposition to honesti/,
stole the uisr-man^s wife's \Vashing-Tnb,from the
door, /\11 the neighbours were astonished at the
temerity of i]ie thief, in steal irig from one wlio
could \.ith so little troisble detect him, and bring
h'ni to shame; besides, ihey naturally expected
that the Astrologer >vould ransack his whole science,
89
and display his utmost powers, not only to regain
his wife's Washing-Tub, but likewise to justify
his pretensions to a superlative knowledge of the
mysterious art of planet-ruling and fortunc'tel-
ling. These expectations were natural, from the
consideration that every one is most affected by,
and most assiduous to repair his own losses, and
rectify his own grievances.
But, they were all mistaken ; for, no sooner did
this wise manhe?ir his wife announce the loss of
her Tub, than he fell into a paroxism of rage, be-
gan to swear, and, " wished he knew who had
taken the tub ;" and swore " if he could but find
them out, he'd be d—d if he would not prosecute
them !
!" And, in order to pursue the most likely
means to recover his loss, he immediately gave the
Bell-man a shilling to cry the loss of his Washing
Tub through the neighbourhood, together with
the offer of a reward to any informant
This afflur, as might be expected, drew upon
the wliole science of Astrology, much ridicule;
and upon the wise incin a declension of reputation,
and a diminution of revenue.
THE ASTROLOGER, AND THE MAN AND HIS
MAID.
J^ OT long ago, a certain married man, now liv-
ing, who was a great admirer of the flaneiary
Science^ having placed unbounded confidence in
a Female Astrologer, was told by her that his wife
would assuredly die at a certain specified time. The
man having no doubt whatever of the skill assu-
med by this She Conjurer, and, as the sequel will
shew, feeling no regret at the contemplation oflos-
ing his present partner, began in good time to
90
look out for another help-mefe. His servaRt Maid
being more accessible, and perhaps in his opinion,
more worthy of Ws attention than any other female,
he fixed his eyes upon her, and to her he paid his
addresses!
The time drew nigh when his wife was, accor-
ding to the Rules of Astrology<^ to pay the debt
of nature, and quit this world. He, therefore, in
full confidence of the truth of Planetary Predictions
became too intimate with the Servant Maid, and
she was pregnant by him before her Mistress was
dead ! By some this will be called a business of
speadatien : so it was : but, like many other spe-
culations, it tended to infamy and ruin ; foi the
incumbent wife was quite alive when the Servant
Girl was delivered of her first-born
Those who understand the female character,
know well enougli, that it is not the way of wives,
when they are parties concerned, to wink at such
transactions as these ! The sweet words and afiable
looks necessary to render the conjugal state happy,
could not abound, nor even exist, neither under
nor after such circumstances as these before us.
But, the evils of this affair did not terminate
here. 1 very one knows that poor Seryant Girls in
a state of illegitimate pregnancy, are frequently
forced to some distant and obscure habitation ,t here
to bring forth the fruits of their illicit commerce.
The Servant ( irl in question, was obliged to take
up her residence at a distant place provided for
her by her wicked seducer: but at that place the
Small Pox were at that time very rife. The un-
fortunate young woman brought forth her child in
IVaiure's time. Almost irr? mediately after her de-
livery she was seized by the Small Pox, and of
them she died ! The poor infant was thus left
I
')1
wiiliout a Mother, and with a Father "whose great-
est joy would be to hear of its dissolution !
Here, then, wel)ehoId a most deplorable instance
of the cursed eflfects of Star-gazing and Fortune'
telling: —The She Conjurer deceived a silly and
wicked Man—the wicked man ruined the Servant
Maid—the wicked man's wife was made an unhappy
woinin—and, the wicked Mm himself, li:id the
deserved mortification to find his name made the
Shuttlecock of reproach and defamation !
The above affiiir occurred at no great distance
from the County of Norfolk, and is of very recent
date. To mention the names of the parties con-
cerned would be no difficult matter, but is omitted
for obvious reasons : It is, however, highly pro-
per that such occurrences should be hung up on the
gibbjt of infamy, as beacons, for the warning of
those whose minds are not yet besotted by the
devilish science of Astrology !
THE PREGNANT LADY AND THE FORTUNE-
TELLER.
A. LADY near London, being in a family
way, was weak enough to enquire of a female
fortune-teller if she should be safely delivered.
The answer made was this : ' If you are delivered
* of a boy you will do well : but should it be a
* girl, you will die in child-bed." During the
remainder of her pregnancy, she was under great
anxiety for fear it should not be a boy, VVhen
brought to bed she eiiqnirod, with great emotion,
as to the sex of the child ; but when told it was a
boy, her mind was perfectly at ease : and she re-
covered her strength very fast, so that in little
more than a week, she was supposed to be out of
i2
1
9S
all danger. Her husband then laughed at her for
her weakness, in believing a fortune-teller, and
informed her that they had deceived her in saying
the child was a boy, as it was in reality a girl.
On this information she was taken very ill, and
died soon after."
Lackingion's Life*
^ Should it be asked how the fortune-teller
came to know that the Lady would die in child-
bed, I answer, that the fortune-teller knew nothing
about it, (except, indeed, she had seen tlie curse
of God follow her former predictions, )but the La-
dy asking an opinion of the devil, through the
medium of the fortune-teller, instead of praying
for the blessing of God, a curse came upon her,
and therefore she who would not seek to become a
monument of God*s mercy, became an example of
his vengeance ! See 2. Kings, i.—2, 3, 4»
The Unhappy Young Man and the
Fortune- Teller,
u% CERTAIN young man, a .few years ago,
feeling himself unsettled and unhappy in his pre-
sent condition, entered into the marriage state in
order to mend himself; but not finding the reme-
dy commensurate with the disease, he went to a
fortune-tellerf before whom he made his desperate
case known. The fortune-teller, with occult wis-
dom and planetary-aspect on his disk^ told the
young fellow, ^' that he would never rest on this
side of the water." This enigmatical information
was submitted, it seems, to his own construction.
But it still ran in his mind," that he was not to rest
oa this side the water." Tlie " water" might be
93
a river, a brook, or the sea; the poor fellow put the
broadest construction on the words, and thought
that the "water" meant the sea. He therefore en-
listed into a regular regiment, and went immedi-
ately on to tiie Continent in the present war ; and
in a rencontre with the French, he, alas ! received
a fatal muske ball which laid him to sleep
instantly ; and it is now certain that he will rest till
that great day when Gabriel shall sound his all-
awakening trumpet
The FortunC'teller, the Lady and her
Elopement.
*'
A JEWELLER'S Wife in the ncighbour.^
hood of Oxford- road (London) eloped from her
husband last week in consequence of the predic-
tion of a fortune-ieller, who had assured her she
was destined tobe thec/eerem?2/e(dearly beloved)of
a Nobleman, whose title and estate she would in a
few days legally inherit. Desirous of anticipating
this splendid elevation, she had taken the resolu-
tion to abandon her husband, in hopes that wheu
separated from liim, her charms would attract
those offers so necessary to the completion of her
ambitious hopes. The coach in which she pro-
ceeded, having overturned, her arm was broke.
The husband on being informed of the circum-
stance, congratulated liimsclf tliat nothing worse
had r suiled, hns set ofFfor Lichfield to assure his
wife in person of her pardon, and to bring her
without delay to town.'*
[^J\ax)elkr ( Newspaper) Monday^ Oct, 31, 180L]
94
Fortune- Seeking. Three Servant- Maids
and the Dumb-cake.
JL HE following circumstance, which ought
to operate as a cautiorx to the ignorant and super-
stitious, occurred about a month ago at the Man-
sion of Charles Wood, Esq. at Thoresby, near
Louth —Three females in the service of that gen-
tleman, entertaining the prevalent notion that by
partaking of a cake called a Dumb-Cake, which,
among the other ingredients composing it, was ix>
contain a portion of the juice of leaves of a certain
tree, not named to us, but perhaps the Magic
MisletoCyihej should enjoy the pleasure of dream-
ing of their swcetheartSy wedding-days, &c.
went in search of this love and joy inspiring
plant : but not being sufficiently skilled in the oc-
cult sciences, and not chusing to consult the gar-
dener or his herbal, they mistook either the helle-
bore or the laurel (tree of immortal glory) for the
still more pleasing and charm fraught tree of earth-
ly love, and gathered a potent quantity of the
deadly ingredient, with which they imbued their
cake. Of this they all three partook, and to make
the spell work, placed also a portion under their
pillow. The effect was more sudden than they
supposed it w®uld be, for the family had not long
retired to rest, when they were awakened by groans
and cries of distress ; and on repairing to the ser-
vants' room, who were unable to attend the call,
a scene presented itself truly shocking to contem-
plate. One ofthe girls had expired under the ef-
fects of the poison, and the other two were in the
most dreadful agonies Fortunately, however,
medical assistance was speedily obtained, and the
lives of these two deluded females preserved, who
©wn that they have once be^n cured oi ihGix love
'
9&
fkncies. But the third, who had partaken more
largely than the rest, had almost instantly, and
beyond remedy or resistance, acknowledged the
power of the baneftd infusion, and paid the for-
feit of her folly with her life, as already observed^
the victim of a silly and superstitious notion, too
prevalent among femal s.
IBeirs Weekly Messenger, Feb. 22, 1813.]
The Gijpst/, the Credulous Alan and his^
Seventy Founds.
X H E Hereford Journal of last week says, the
following instance of credulous folly and infatuat"
cd superstition, we believe has seldom been equal-
led even in times less enlightened liian the present
and must forcibly impress upon tlie minilsof every
one, the necessity of putting the law in force
against tliose predatory vagabonds who strollabout
the country under tlie denomifialion of Gj/psies.
Early in March (18J3) a gang of these people
pitched their tents on a piece of ^vaste ground in
the pari^^li of Stretton hiiguas, in Herefordshire,
and an old woman, one of the party, called at the
house of a man of the name of Gritton, whose for-
tune she prevailed on him to let her predict. After
several fine promises, calculat(d to lull his circum-
spection and excite his avarice, she contrived to
persuade him, an immense quantify of gold coin
lay concealed in tlie premises he occupied, and
that it was necessary (hat a large sum of money
should be made into a parcel, and, after being en-
dowed with a charm,^it was to be sewed in the side
pocket of his coat, and the more money the par-
cel contained, the more considerable would be the
treasure lie should find. A sura ofseventj pounds,
in gold, bills, and silver, was accordingly made
up in a parcel, and, after some preparation, sewed
by the Sybil info the pocket of Gritton's coat,
where it was to remain nine days, at the end of
which time she promised to return, and a coffer of
guineas was to arise from the ground, and at once
enrich her credulous dupe, who, of course, most
anxiously expected the important day. However
it passed without his aged guide to wealth making
her appciirance, when he was induced to open the
parcel slie liad scv.n up, and discovered to his
utter confusion, the witch had managed to turn
gold, silver, and bills, into halfpence and waste
paper, leaving them in exchange for hif cash, and
a reward for his folly. This silly man had bor-
rowed the principal part of the sum lost^ of his
reighbours, and ii \\v. could have procured more,
doubtless would have added it to the prize of the
crafty isnpostor he had so weakly confided in,
who, we regret to say, is got off with her booty."
IIIM, May 17, 1815.]
The Married Jloman, the Fortune-teller^
and the Poor-House.
A MARRIED Woman, who had her fortune
told, felt herself bunliened with keepiiig the secret
during a few weeks; hut fiot williiig to be pregnant
of i< any Iongcr,siie diNbijithcued hi^rsclf beibre her
husband; for, when the decoclior. o some sweet-
smelling ^o?/«/?&w^ or congou^ h(Kl exhilarated her
spirits, dispelled the mist from her brain, and
given to her tongtie its wonted glibncss, s-h^ said,
'^^
What do's ta think—I've had my fortune told
97
mcjand thou art to die, and I am to marry again,
and become rich with my second husband." This
was a charming salute tor a lady to give her hus-
band over a cup of tea ; and as it was evident the
good woman anticipated with eagerness her pre-
dicted prosperity, it might be plainly inferred
also, tlmt slie considered the existence of her pre-
sent consort as a disgusting impediment to her lu-
ture prospects.
In a few years time the husband died, and then
this delicate lady had a fair opportunity of realiz-
ing her views of wealth and greatness by a second
marriage. Slie soon entered Hymen's yoke again :
and with what she had and her new Jiusband
brought, they had jointly a small property, but it
wojs very fioon expended, poverty ensued, and,
strange to tell, thisenterprizing lady has since been
making her fortune in a Poor'IIousc!
The Felon, the Foriune-ttiler, and the
Gallows*
A FELON who was hung at York in the Spring
of 1802, is a notorious example of the fatal mis-
chiefs of Planet-ruling and Fortune-telling. This
unfortunate man acknowledged after his condem-
nation, that having been told by a fortune-teller
he would be hanged, and having his mind deeply
impressed with the doctrine of fatality, became so
uncommonly unsettled and agitated, *^as to fosm a
resolution to commit the crime for which he suf-
fer«d, in order to accelerate that fate which he
believed to be utterly unavoidable ! This is ano-
ther deplorable instauce of the curse of God attend-
ant on fortune-seeking ! When will mankind tak«L
warning?
98
The Fortune-teller and the Prussian
Peasant,
-A PRUSSLVN Peasant accompanied some of his
companions to the house of a fellow, who assumed
the cliaracter of a fortune-teller; and havins^ dis-^
obliVi^cd himbj expressinor a contempt of his art,
the fellow out of reven;Tf prophesiL'dthathe sliould
die on the scaffold. This seemed to make little
impression at the time, but aftervvarils recurred
offcn to this unhappy creature's memory, and be-
caoie every day more troublesome to his imagina-
tion. At length the idea haunted his mind so in-
cessantly, that he was rendered perfectly misera-
ble, and could no longer 'ndure life
IJe would have put himself to death with his own
hahds, had he not been deterred by the idea that
God Alnighty n^ver forgives suicide; though
upon repentance he is ready to pardon every other
crime. He resolved, therefore, to commit mur-
der, that he might be deprived of life by the hands
ofjustice J and mingling a sentiment of benevo-
lence with tlie cruelty of his intention, he reflect-
ed, tliat if he murdered a grown person,he might
possibly send a soul to hell. To avoid this he de-
termined to murder a child, who could not have
committed any sin that deserved damnation, but
dying in innocence would go immediately to hea-
ven. In consequence of these ideas, he actually
murdered an infant of his raaster*s, for whom he
had always shewn an uncommon degree of fond-
ness. Such was the strange account that this in-
fatuated creature gave on his trial; and thus the
random prophecy proved, as in many other cases,
the cause of its own completion.
He was executed about two miles from Berlin.
As soon as he ascended the scaffold, he took off
90
his coat and waistcoat; his slurt was rolled down
below his shoulders ; his night-cap was pulled over
his e^es ; he was i)laced on his knees, and the ex-
ecutioner, with a single stroke of his broad-sword,
severed his head from his bodj.
ON THE VANIT V AND IGNORANCE 01^
ASTROLOGERS.
Cardatii Gauricus, and Henry II, of
France, and others.
J5UCFI is the inveterate enmity and malice of the
devil which he bears to poor man, that from the
creation to this day he never was without his en-
gines and subtile contrivances, whereby he m.ight
undo him, or at least dangeroHsly deceive and de-
lude him. Ill subservience to these his designs,
he set up his places of oracular residence ; and,
thougli it was a lower way of trading, amused the
world with Judicial Astrologi/ ; by both which he
continually mocked and abused the credulity
and curiosity of over-inquisitive men, and still
doth(\\hich is no wonder) notwithstanding all
ages by their experience have detected his lalse-
hood.
1. Henry the second, to whom Cardan and Gau-
ricus, two lights of Astrology, had ioretold a hap-
py old age, wasmis rably slaia in the flower of
his youth in games and pleasures of a tournament.
The princes, his children, whoso horoscopes were
so curiously looked into, and of whom wonders
had be'^n spoken, wore not much more j)rosp«rous,
as Franc<^ well knew. Caus. liolij Courts toni 1.
max 5. ^age 360.
100
2. Zica, King of ilie Arabians, to whom Astro-
logy had promised long life to persecute the Chris-
tians, died in the year of the same prediction.
Id. ibid.
3. ^/6ww2G;.^Gr, the oracle of Astrology, left in
writing, that he found the Christian Religion, ac-
cording to the influence of the stars, should last but
one thousand four hundred years : he hath already
belied more than three hundred, and it will be a
lie to the world's end. ibid p. 261.
4. Tlie year 1524, wherein happened the great
conjunction of Saturn, Jupiter, and Mars, in the
sign Pisces, Astrologers had foretold the world
should perish by water ; which was the cause that
many persons of quality made arks in imitation of
Noah, to save themselves from the deluge; all
which turned into laughter, lb. p. S61.
5. It was foretold to a Constable of France,
well known, that he would die beyond the Alps,
before a city besieged, in the eightj^-third year of
his age; and that if he escaped this time, he was
to live above an hundred years : which was noto-
riously untrue, this man deceasing in his eighty-
fourth year of a natural death, lb. p. 361.
King Henry VII, and the Astrologer.
An Astrologer predicted the death of King
Henry the Ttli, such a year. The King sent for
him, and ssked if he could tell fortunes? He said
" yes." The King then asked if he did not fore-
see some imminent danger that much about that
time should hang over his own head? He said,
'« No." *' Then said the king, '^ thou art a foolish
figure-caster, arul I am more skilful tlian thou
for as soon as I saw thee, I instantly prophesied
101
that thou wouklst be in prison before night, which
thou shalt find true ;" and sent him thither. He
had not been long in custody before the king sent
for him again, to know whether he could cast a
figure to know how lonjr he should b* in prison ?
ffe still answered " No." " Then'* said the king,
" thou art an illiterate fellow, that canst not tell
either good or bad that shall befal thyself; there-
fore I will conclude ihou canst not tell of mine;"
and so set him at liberty.
Chetwood's Hislor, Col. Cent, 12. page 327:
Brief Memoirs of JEROME CARDAN,
the famous Astrologer,
Who is frequently mentioned in this Book.
J • CARDAN was born at Pavia in Italy, Sept.
24, 1501. As his mother was not married, she
tried every method to procure an abortion, but
without effect. She was three days in labour, and
they were forced at last to cut the child from her.
He w?s born with his head covered with black
curled hair.
He very early in life became eminent for his
knowledge of MaUienmtics, Medicine, &c. Be-
sides which, he became very notorious for his pre-
tensions to the science of Astrology. Wherefore,
whatever disasters befel himself, he ascribed tlsem
invariably to the malign influences of the planets.
His temper was very fickle ; and, according to his
own account ol" himself, he was a ff[i^^X oddily.
He informs us, that when he ftlt no pain naturally,
he would excite that disagreeable sensation in Inm-
self, by biting his lips, and squeezing his fingers
K
103
till he cried ! He did tbis, he says, to prercnt a
greater evil ; for when he happened to be without
pain, he felt such violent salliesof the imagination,
and impressions on the brain, as were more insup-
portable than any bodily pain. He says, also, that,
in his greatest tortures of soul, heusedto whip his
legs with rods, and bite his leit arm ; and that it
was a great relief to him to weep, but very often
he could not. He was sometimes tempted to lay
violent bands on himself, which he calls Heroic
Love; and imagines that several other persons
have been possessed with it, though they did not
own it. Nothing gave fcim more pleasure than to
talk of things which always made the whole com-
pany uneasy ! He spoke on all subjects, in season
and out of season ; and was so fond of games of
chance, as to spend whole days in them, to the
great prejudice of his family and reputation; for
be even staked bis furniture and wife's jewels.
This man was a champion among Astrologers
and was, in the end, the victim of his own vanity.
He calculated his own Nativity, and predicted his
own Death at a certain time. VVhen the appointed
time drew near, and Cardan perceived no signs of
sickness, in order to preserve his own reputation,
and that of Judicial Astrology, he starved himself
to death. Scaliger and Thuanus vouched for the
truth of this fact. The same Cardan likewise cal-
culated his Son's Nativity with a great deal of care.
He informed his Son in a long writing what his
fnte should be^ but took not the least notice, that
he should be hanged at the age of twenty-four for
poisoning his Wife!
N. B, The nbove is extracted from a Biographi-
cal Dictionary, and the Philosophical Dissertalioufi
qf the Marquis D'Argens,
103
TJie Fortune-teller Burned
Al fire broke out in a small CtHtage in the
Ed*»-c ware Road, London, on Saturday night, Nov,
18, which consumed tliesame ; and Mis, Helling^
the owner, was burned. The dec lascJ wa? a For-
tuneAelkr^ and it was supposed that the Fire was
occasioned by her having left a candle burning bj
her bed-side, as she was seen in a state of inebria-
tion at ten o*clock, at a Public-house in that neigh-
bourhood.'*
Taunton Courier^ Nov. SOtk, 1809.
QUEREi—Why could not this Fortune-teller
foresee anil prevent her own Misfortune ? And are
not events of this nature to be arranged amongst the
strongest arguments against the diabolical practice
of Fortune-Telling ?
Ridiculous Jargon of ah Almanack^
Maker.
"WiILLI4M RAMSAY, a famous Alma-
nack Maker and Astrologer of past days, in his vin-
dication of Astrology, says, ^' The absence of the
sun is not the cause of night, forasmuch as his
light is so great that it may illuminate the earth all
over at once as clear as broad day ; but there are
tenebrificous and dark stars, by whose influence
night is brought on, and which do ray out dark-
ness and obscurity upon the earth as the Sun does
'•<^ht !
!"
Videthe Sverfntor, No, 582.
10*
Predictions, Moore's Almanack ^e.
JlN Moor's Almanack for 1807, we find predicted
tile death of the Grand Turk, which was to take
place in April of that year. On the 29lh of May
of that year,Selim, the Grand Signor, was murdered
by his Janissaries. The accomplishment of the
prophecy falling out so near the time predicted,
caused many of those who are admirers of Mr.
Moore's Almanack, both to wonder and exult, which
exultation led the Editor of a London Newspaper,
to make the following very judicious remarks ;
*• The grave allusion to the casual completion of
a frequently repeated prophecy must appear truly
ludicrous to all, except the /^/gA and /ot^) vulgar,
who seem to continue obstinately wedded to all the
absurdities o^ Astrology : —Should any of our rea-
<!ers have chanced to preserve Moore's Almanack
for so long a period, they will find, if our recollec-
tion does not very much misgive us^ the same pre-
diction, an I in nearly the same words, in some of
the numbersfrom 1786 tol79l.
" In a country where such a miserable wretch as
Powellythe Fortune- Teller , has been committed
for trial for casting a nativity, it is certairdy some-
what surprizing that the publication of such a tis-
sue of imposture should be permitted. It is the
perusal of Moore's, Wing's, and some other alma-
nacks, that prepares the ignorant for becoming
dupes of such men as Powell. In these they find
every contingency of life, even every part of the
human body, mysteriously connected with certain
constellations, days, and seasons ; and being thus
led to believe in the reality of the science of Astro-
logy, they very naturally resort to any one who
makes himself master of its jargon, and dubs him-
self a Professor !"
J^ondon Paper ( Traveller) Oct, 1^, 1807.
105
The Almanncks above mentioned, with others
of a like description, have done, and are still doing
infinite mischief to the morals of mankind. For,
when men of inquisitive minds and narrow capa-
cities, observe that Almanack-Makers can clearly
foretel an Eclipse, and not knowing the distinc-
tion between mathematical calculation and mj's-
sterious influence,they assimilate the two very dis-
similar things, and are bewildered and befooled
oy the aggregate. But it ought to be known that
the calculation of an Eclipse is founded on prin-
ciples as clear and solid as those on which men
make the mensuration of a forest or a field. With
regard to Astrology, it has no principles ; it never
had; no, i?or ever will have; unless this be a
principle, viz —It is so, because it is so!
It is worth the while, however, of Almanack-
Makers to reflect a little more on their conduct,
tlian they apparently have done. They are the
men who keep alive the stamina of superstition and
fortune-lelling, and it may be, that at the last daj/y
the blood of many poor deluded and ruined soul&
may be required at their hands.
Lucky and Unlucky days.
Jl HE notion of li/ckj/ and unlucky days, is,
also, a great source of folly and mischief amongst
the silly and superstitious part of mankind. The
existence of such days is taught by Mr. Siblj/ in
his large and pernicious Book A\liich he has pub-
lished on Astrology and Magic, and also by some
others ; and those spurious Almanacks which are
yearly vended, are scarcely ever without a list
of them. The consequence of which is, that some
men will hardly proceed on any material business
106 '
without first consulting the diabolical table of /i/c-
hy and unlucky days !
I knew an old man, who had got a few old
i^lmanacks, and I believe Culpepper^s Herbal,
which, on account of its continual advertence to
planetary influence, is a mischievous book ; and
perhaps he might have an old book on Astrology;
but if he had, 1 am certain he had not learning
sufticient to understand the terma^ much less the
matter of it. This old man, when going to a fair
or market to make a sale or purchase, would stand
in his house ready dressed, with his staff in his
hand, and the door open ; and when the luckij
minute arrived by the clock, he would rush out
of doors like a hare out of a bush, and then pro-
ceed on his impor<ai!t journey !
On one occasion he left home in this style, and
wont to a fair and bought twelve ewes : he brought
them home, and they died one after another very
rapidly, so that in a short time he had but one
ewe left out of the ticehe^ and that one he very
appropriately called Old Costly t
Asirologif may he a National as well as an
Individual Sin.
11 EN Astrology Isas become common and
prevalent in a nation, it has never failed to draw
down the vengeance of heaven in the shape of na-
tional calamities, yilhens^ \hi\i famous Grecian
city, is said to owe ils final ruin to the cursed sci-
ence of Astrology : and we all know that the an-
cient Canaanites dealt largely in witchcratt, ob-
serving of times, necromancy, and familiar spirits :
and that for these and other crimes, the^ were
107
either destroyed or driven out of their land. And
the pious Mr. /?. Flemin^^ in his discourse on
Earthquakes, observes, tliat previous to the dread-
ful earthquake which took pl'ice on the 7lh' June,
IGO^^, at Port Ilwyal in Jamaica, and in ^vhich, as
the Hon, Robert Boyle says, about 1500 Whiles
and 700 Blacks perished, b< si(h's inimcuse quan-
tities of property bein<r destroyed^ the people were
mightily addicted to the wicked science of Astro-
logy : hear what Mr. Fk-ming says,
'^ As it is the alone prcrof^ative of the Deiti/
to declare thinft^sto co7ne before they spring forth^
and who halli bounded the' prospect and evidence
of his people as io future eTcnts^ or what he is yet
brinirifitr {odh of his work in (he last tinies^ ac-
cord ina- to the extent of Divine /levclalion herein,
(since this is to be the measure of our light and
discoveries, until the seeoml eomin^ of our Lord)
so it's no less evident and sure, that any pretence
or prospect of the events of providence, which
hav'e no deprndence on any natural causes, is be-
yond the possibU^ rearli ot al^ natural science, OK
of that liorrid profi'ssion «hich is so much aloft in
tliese times, viz. Judicial Astrolos:2/^ as it relates
U) future and contingent events ; wherein men as
free agents do act, when besidcb the known vanity
of any such pretence, the God of Truth hath j)ut
them in the same class with Sorcerers, Tsa. xlvii,
12. 13. Staj.d nowzn'ith thine e^uhantments^and the
multitude of thy sorceries y and let the Astrologt rs
and Star-gazers stand up and S'lve thee, S^-c,
*' It is little taken to heart how deep such real
homage to the Devil, under a splendid shew of a
depeiulence on natural causes herein, may draw to
a coming under greater invasions of his power,
when it's so far a giving up with tlu^ir baptismal
covenant, I could speak what has been willi too
108
sad evidence known of its tragic effects, but one
instance leads me now specially to speak thereto ;
that betbie this last tremendous earthquake at Ja-
maica, there was so strange and universal a ten-
dence in that place, to consult Astrologers in theit
usual undertakings as to the event, as did inforce
a serious Minister of the Gospel who was there ;i
little before that stroke, not only to preach, and ap-
pear a<Tainst such a contagious wickedness as that
which brings some remarkable judgment with it,
butalsoto/?M^//.?/i something in print against the
same; which is here extant ; But they could not
thus foresee their own destiny that was so ftear ap-
proaching. 1 might further add a very sad in-
stance of a person who was unquestionabli/ of
eminent piety and parts, who by a too eager curi"
osity, was carried to make some trial of that study,
which tended not only to be his snare, but to most
tragic effects in his own personal lot. Though I
forbear to speak more particularly herein, only
that God is ajeatous God, who will not pass some
evils without a severe remark thereon."
General Observations on Astrolog^j, Foi^-
tune-tellingj Familiar Spirits ^ ^c.
After all that has been said, some will say,
''I know that there are persons who can foretell
some things." This I really believe myself.* But
* From thi« concession let it not be supposed, however, that
I allow the dealeis with familiar spirits the ability of foretel-
ling any thing: for the things which they do foretel are gene-
rally trifling and insignificant; ard tTeo ppirits themselves.may
not have this gift from any superior know ledge of futurity, but
merely from abetter acquaintance than we possess, with the
•onnexiouof natura! causes and their eflects. Yet some DWines
109
the qiK'jy is^ hj/ what means ? Not, I am sure,
by the help oi signs and planets, but by the agen-
cy and instrumentality of bad spirits; ctnd one
part of my dc>ign in this public effort is, to extri-
cate God's fair creation from that agency which
belongs only to wicked men and devils, tor, from
all that I can learn, some foolish men, first begin
to seek the knowledge of future events among the
signs and planets, but failing of their end, they at
length effect that purpose by means of familiar
spirits, which they in vain attempted to do by
5^flr5 and horoscopes. Hence it is observable that
Astrology and JVJagic are abnost irjseparable,
though the latter (magic) is the real and effective
part ; but this part being scandalous to those who
profess it, because it im})lies a dealing with thcdc'
^//, the professors of it always chase to denominate
themselves by the more re[)utable name of Astro-
logers, that is, persons icho foretel future events
bj/ the stars. Of this description of persons, arc
some of those who pretend to tell disorders. by ur-
ine ; the urine has but little part in this biisiness,
because it is well known that the Doctor does not
often give himself tiie trouble even to look at it!
From whence then comrs his information ?
Now, that there have hetn faf^iliar spirits, the
Bible itself will testify; st^e Acts xvi. i6. And
hear also what God himf^elf says of such people as
apply to them. '' And the soul that turneth after
such as have familiar spirits, and after wizards, to
allow that God may siiffpr on some occasions, positive truths to
he foretold by bad spirits, for the delusion and punishment of
those who have the wickedness to seek inforraatio i fi om tfiem.
The notion of Familiar Spirits may appear to some as unrea-
sonable as the doctrine of Ajtrology appears to me; in my de-
fence I have only to say, that 1 have the Bible on my side;
those, therefore, who believe the liibie, will believe me ; and to
those who do not, I have nothing to say.
110
go a whoring after them, I will even set my face
against that soul, and will cut him off from among
his people." Lev. xx. 6. Wherefore if death bcf"
threatened to those persons who apply to Conjurers
for information, what will become of the Conjurers
themselves ?
Hear also the word of the Lord against Astrolo-
gers : *' Stand now with thine enchantments, and
with the muhitude of thy sorceries, wherein thou
hast laboured from thy youth ; if so 1x3, thou shait
be able to profit, if so be, thou mayest be able to
prevail. Thou art wearied in the multitude of thy
counsels Let now the Astrologers, the Star-ga-
zers the monthly Prognosticators, stand up, and
save thee from these things, that shall come upon
thee. Behold, they shall be as stubble ; the fire
shall burn them ; they shall not deliver themselves
from the power of the fiame,** Isaiah xlvii^ 12,
13, 14.
On the other hand, let all such as arc disposed
to fear God and keep his commandments, hear
what the word of the Lord says to them. *' Surely
there is no enchantment again&t Jacob, nor is there
any divination against Israel;" Num. xxiii. 23.
"Thus saith the Lord, learn not the way of the
Heathen, and be not dismayed at th(^ signs of liea-
ven ; for the Heathen are dismayed at them ;" Jer,
7^. 2. *' The Lord is thy keeper, the Lord is
thy shade upon thy right hand. The Sun shall
not smite thee by day, nor the Moon by night;'*
Psalm cxxi. by Q.
Should any one wish to see how much Piety is
better than Astrology^ let them only take Xha trou*
ble to read the two first chapters in the book of
Daniel. And in addition to all these things, it is
a curious truth, that some Astrologers themselves
will acknowledge that the stars have no influence
Ill
-on persons who fear and obey Almighty God.
Therefore the first requisite of one who wanta pla-
netary influence and astrological information, must
be, that he is a badman! And, indeed, he can-
not be a good one, if the Bible be worth a straw
In every civilized nation in the world there have
been men of learning and genius, who have given
the science of Astrology a thoroogh invest igation^
in order to ascertain its merits and estimate its va-
lue; and the wisest and best of these men have
generally agreed to give it their decided negative.
Some of them have shewn, to a demonstration, the
futility of its principles; they have also exhibited
many Genitures, and shewn by a comparison of
their pretended indications with the events, that
the professor is certain of nothing but uncertainty ;
and that the ivhole science is chimerical and void
of foundation
Astrology is a far more wicked science than ma-
ny persons are aware. The very nature of it goes
(o supersede and nullify both the promises and
threatningsof the word of God ; and to dispossess
the human heart of that which is its best principle
and real glory—«» unshaken affiance in God's
Justice^ Mercy and Truths and providential su*
^erinlendence over all things under the Sun,
This science has been a curse both to nations and
individuals; that great and famous city, Babylon,
was brought to destruction partly on its account
Isa. xlrii.—9. read the whole chapter. Also,
£>eut. xviii»-~9, 10, U, 12, IS, 14.—also, 2
Kings, i.—^, 3, 4, 5, G.
It unsettles men's minds, making many to seek
that good fortune from the stars, which they ought
to seek by sober industry. It fills vaia men with
chimerical views ofjumping instantaneously into
wealth and honour U makes many expect more
112
from a few visionary indications in a horoscope^
than from a thousand virtuous actions—and it
causes some to expect more help IVom the influence
of Jupiter than from the arm o^ Jehovah. Hence
it has been confidently asserted by some authors,
that Astrology has done more harm to mankind
than Idolatry ; becuuse it is said that wherever the
former was in use, the latter was in practice.
Astrology is opposed to the Eiible, and the Bible
to it ; therefore those who chuse the one, must of
necessity renounce the other. And I will beg leave
to add, what 1 bilieve but tew will deny, namely,
that those men amongst us who have been dwprst
in the science of Astrology, and its counterpart,
Magic, have generally carried about with them
the visible curse of God ; and their estates have
frequently exhibited manifest tokens of their infer-
nal profession, and evident marks of the Atmigh-
\yh indignation !
THE FORTUNE-TELLER'S
Covjfiring Cap ;
Or, Questions and, Answers about Marriage, and
other things, shewing how to be
WISE, RICH, AND HAPPY.
[This little piece is so well wiitten, that I cannot deny mjsHf
and the reader, the gratification of inserting it in tliis pulili-
cation.]
T V E all want to know what shall happen to
us, whether we be man, woman, or child ; and
some, who don't wish to pass for common fools,
113
pretend to read tbe stars, and ask questions of the
planets ; but if the stars don't know, they cannot
tell. x\o, let the Astronomer study the stars, to
view the glorious works of God who made them :
and let the sailor watch them that he may know
his way over the ocean : but to ask them to teR us
future events, is to lose one's labour. I would as
soon ask the blue sky, as the stars. Some old wo-
men who cannot tell great A from a broom-stick,
yet, forsooth, ])retend to tell fortunes : so they
make you twirl the coffee cup, to see by the grounds
at bottom, how long you are to live, or how soon
you may be married. Now if those coffee grounds
came again and again just the same, which they
ought to do if they tell true, one might think
something about it: but when the first dish shews
a long life and the second a short one ; in my opi-
nion, the long and short of it is, 'tis all nonsense
and foll3^ So the gipsy looks at the palm of your
hand ; but pray look at her's all the while, lest it
should vslip into your pocket to examine your for-
tune there. Or the moles about your body must
be measured and counted, and then they will tell
you such a deal, more tiian twenty wise men ever
could believe. The same may be said of cards
and the wheel of fortune : none but knaves pretend
to tell any thing by such methods, and none but
fools believe them.
''If you ask,are there no true signs by which per-
sons may give a guess what luck they shall have ?
I answer, yes. And as my Conjuuing Cap is as
deep as any, is made with very large ears, and has
a pretty jingle of bells too at top ; 1 think I can
see as tar into a mill-stone as any of them. I shall
set myself, therefore in my great arm chair, and
answer some of the most usual questions.
114
First Question—Shall I live to he Old?
" To answer this positively—positively is not
easy; 'tis too mucli for a trifle, and nobody can
answer it under a crown. But let me ask you a
question or two, and we may then give a guess.
JDo you lie in bed laie of a morning, sit by the fire
all day, and go tipsy to bed at night ? Do you
hate work and love liquor ? You see Tm a bit of
a conjurer by my giving so good a guess. 1*11 lay
the best tassel of my cap, that some day or ano-
ther when you are drunk you'll figlit, and get your
brains knocked out ; or you'll set yourself on fire ;
or you'll tumble off your horse, and so'chcat the
hangman at last. You live long ! It is not likely,
and indeed if you live such a life, 'iwere pity you
should.
Second Question—Shall I he Rich ?
" I don't know why you should not, if j^ou are
industrious, honest, and contented. But do you
know what you mean by being rich. Will nothing
less than your own horse and gig satisfy you ? To
keep a cow, or even a pig, will make some people
rich; and you may soon do this, if you will save
all that your tobacco costs, and snuff; if you
will put by all you usually spend in liquor, and
leave off keeping Saint Monda}'. I have known
three halfpence a day spent in snuff by a ragged
fellow, (no wonder he was ragged) that makes 9d.
a week, which comes to more than sB^. a year ;
•which for 50 years (for the fellow was more than
70) amounts to ^1001 If any one were to give
him j^lOO. he would think himself rich, and he
mio-hthave had as much, if he had saved all that
he has spent in useless filthy snuff. And as to you,
Molly->
if instead of white cotton stockings, you
115
were to content yourself with worsted ; if instead
of line gowns, bonnets, and ribbons, which make
you look tawdry and soon wear out ;
you were
satisfied with what is plain, neat and clean, you
might soon have a few pounds by you. Nay,
Master IJen, if you and your wife li:*d made only
one day's holiday at Easter, Whitsuntide, and
Christmas, instead of four or five; and if instead
of getting drunk at the fair, you had merely let
the children have a treat, they need not, poor lit-
tle things, go in riigs as they do, and your six
weeks confinement with a broken leg would Imve
been saved. 1 fancy that if all the money you lost
in idleness & spent in liquor, and still owe the sur-
geon, had been put together in some sly corner,
you would say you were rich. But if you will take
no more care of such things, you can never be rich
nor can the stars ever make you so.
Third Cluestion—Shall I ever get
Married?
" Why, look at your glass, Sally, and see, is
there any reason to fear you should not ? —A come-
ly face, a lively eye, a fi\ir skin ; why what can
be the matter with the men ? Now, witliout my
conjuring cap, I think I can tell. See how dirty
your face is ; how untidily you put on your cap
and how loosely that handkerchief is pinned. Few
men love slatterns. I have known a prettier girl
than you die unmarried, though she had had se-
veral sweethearts ; for she was such a vixen of a
t(5mper that no one could endure her long. All
the flames kindled by her bright eyes being blown
out by her scolding mouth. Her sister, who to
sny the truth was plain enough, married at twen-
ty, a young miller, who used to joke her about
l2
116
her want of beautyi all the <ime he paid court to
the scold : tiU sootlied by her sweetness oi' temper,
as much as he was vexed by the other's ill humour,
he at last turned his back on Madam Sulk, and
offered himself to good-tempered Jenny. He mar-
ried her on the 20th of May, just a fortnight before
his uncle died, and left him 100/. with which he
took the Mill himself; where he still lives wilh
half a dozen ptretty children around him.
Fourth Question—Will mi/ Master
Marrtj me ?
** Is a question put io the conjurer very often,
which might be answered by any one else, as well
as by him. No, to be sure! you did not think
he would when he first began to 'take liberties with
you, and pull you about, and you soon let him
see tliat he need not marry you unless he pleased.
After toying away your own character do you
wonder that he despises you ? you have been a
fool to yourself, and tliat has tauglit him to be a
\i^\Y^SQ to you. It is too late now to think of being
married by him or any one else. It has ended just
as might have been expected ;
just as every body
told you it would : and if your good mother dies
of a broken heart, you'll feel something of your
folly and sin ; especially when your bastard babe
begins to prattle, and smile, and to ask, where is
daddy?
Fifth Question—Shall I get a Farm of
my own?
u Why how much have you saved of your
wages ? aye indeed ! that bag full ! what ? you have
piit there ail your largess money, and Christmas
117
boxes I suppose ; well that's right. And does your
cow get a tolemble living on the common ; do your
])otatoes turn out well by the hedge-side ; and
does the old donkey carry your wife and her eggs
to market still ; and does your litter of pigs thrive
in the barley-straw ? 'Tis good hearing, friend
John. Atid 1 can tell you, that Bob Dash, the
liorse-racer, is hardly able to keep his farm about
him. Not only is his house ready to tumble on
his head, but he is terribly behind-hand with his
irent. And one of the long ears of my cap heard
something the other Sunday, as you and your wife
and five children were standing in a row after ser-
mon. Ben's landlord, 'squire Old wood, says to
the parson, *•
There's an honest industrious man
' now : I wish I had such a one as he for a tenant,
' instead of that drinking hoity toity fellow, Dash.
* To be sure it is rather too mighty for his means,
• but i never grudge help to a man that deserves it.
'
So keep a good heart, John ; bo diligent, frugal,
and honest, and with the blessing of God,(l know
you pray for that every day), we may see wonder^
ful I kings h app en
" A plentiful questioning is kept up about th«
conjurer's ears to enquire,
How to recover^ any thing lost?
" As if all the stars in heaven had nothing to do
but to run scampering about to find it. The forlune-
lellcr i^ sure to make the fools svho consult him,
lose soiriethifig more by way of fee. This is just
as it ought to be ; ht^'ll not tell fifty lies for nothing.
Besides, the money thi^y give him, and the tiuic
they lose in goi:)g after him, would half pay for
what was stolen from them. And it the loss sliould
make them take double care in future, it would
l3
118
soon make that loss become an absolute gain. And
as (o the time they lie awake thinking and fretting
about it, if they would go to sleep soundly, and
get up in the morning so much the sooner to work,
thsy might earn enough to make up their loss in a
few days, and perhaps get the habit of early ris-
ing, which would be a constant gain, and add
much to their health and cheerfulness.
" There are many other questions, such as
Shall I be htloved hy my Friends ?—Shall
I he happy in Wedlock?—Shall any
dangerous accident befal me?—Shall I
prosper in my new business ?
^' But those who cannot give a good guess con-
cerning these from the hints which I have already
dropt, must bf^ very dull and stupid. It is not
worth my while to write for such. I don't think
any conjurer can do them any good. 1 am sure
they are no conjurers themselves.
^^ There is, iiowever, another question, and
that of great importance, not often put to the for-
tune-teller, and totally left out of all conjuring
books ; but upon which a man*s Bappimss so
much depends, that it ought never to be forgotten.
I mean,
What shall become of my Soul when
I die?
'* Die you must, and your body be laid in the
grave. Then it will be of small importance whe-
ther you were married or not ; whether you were
rich or poor ; happy or miserable, as to this world.
The grand point will be, what reception will your
soul have with the great judge of <yiickand dead ?
119
Will he receive you to heaven, or cast you head-
long into hell ; into outer darkness, where there is
weeping and wailing, and gnashing of teeth ;
where the worm dicth not, and the fire is not
quenched ! Do you say, nobody can tell where
they sliall go. 1 deny it. Many know very well
where they arc going, though they protend they
do not. The drunkard, the whore, and the whore-
monger, the thief, the swearer, and the sabbath
breaker, know very well in their own consciences
that hell was made for such ; and is filled with
such. ^]\{] one reason why they hate the Bible so
much is, because it tells iheui that none of them
shall enter into heaven, nor any thing that loveth
andmaketh aiie. If you never read your Bible,
never come to worship on the Lord's Day, live
Tvithout prayer from one week's end to another ; if
you trifle with religion, or perhaps laugh iit it ; it
is easy to see where you will go, and what will
become of your soul. 1 can only say, may God
give you true repentance, and lead you as a bro-
ken hearted sinner toseek mercy fromCiod through
the merits of Jesus Christ; his graci^ will maKe
3'ou forsake every sinfid way ; and while it makes
you a better man, a better husband, a bettei neigh-
bour, a true Christian ; it will give you a gBod
hope, that when you die, you shall be received in-
to heaven, and inherit eternal glory
" To sum up the matter, hear what the Bible
says concerning those who consulted fo!tnne-tei-
lers, and endeavoured by unlawful means to look
into futurity in fbrnier times. When they shall
say unto you^ seek unto them that have familiar
spirits, and unto wizards that peep and thai mut^
ter^ should not a people seek unto their God?—
Isaiah, viii. 19. Again, 1 hou art xn^earied in the
multitude of thy counsels ; let now the aslrohgers^
120
tHe star-gazers^ the monthly prognosticators,(i)ie
Moore's Almanacks of those clays) stand up and
save thee fro??i those things that shall come upon
thee. Isaiah, xlvii. 13.
" No, none can instrucl thee, like the Bible : —
this is the only book in the world to let every man
know his future destiny, and therein it is written,
(here is no other name given wider heaven^ where-
by thou canst be saved^ from sin, and death, and
hell, but the name of Jesus! May he instruct
thee, and bless thee, and save thee that thou raay-
cst be made wise, and holy, and happy for ever J*
Th
The Best Fortune'telling.
IE best, and the only ixwQ fortune-tellings h
to be found in the Bible. Hear, ye inquisitive
fortune-seekcrsfihc word of the Lord: God is
angry with the wicked every day. Psalm vii. 11.
The wicked shall be turned into heU.^ and all the
nations that forget God. Psalm, ix. 17. The
curse of the Tord is in the house of the wicked.
Proverbs, iii. 33, Hut it shall not be zcell with
the wicked, neither shall he prolong his dai/s^
which are as a shadow ; because he feareth not
before God. Eccles. viii. 13, TJoe unlo the
wicked! it shall be ill with him : for the reward of
his hands shall be given him, Isaiah, iii. 11. For^
behold.,the day cometh, that shall burn as an oveny
and all the proud^ J/^'^^
^^^^^ «^^ '^'^' ^^ wickedly,
shall be stubble : and the day that cometh shall
burn them up, saith the Lord of HodSy that it
shall leave them tieither root nor branch, —
Malachi, iv. 1.
On the other hand, hear the good fortune of
the Righteous : Blessed is the man that walkcth
121
not in the counsel of the ungodly^ nor standeth in
the waij of sinners^ nor sitielh in the seat of the
scornful, But his delight is in the law of the
Lord; and in his law doth he meditate daij and
night. And he shall be like a tree planted by the
rivers of watcr^ that bringeth forth his fruit in
his season ; his leaf also shall not wither^ and
lOhatsoever he doeth shall prosper. Psal.i, —1. 2. 3.
For the L,ord God is a Sun and a Shield; the
JLord mill give grace and glori/ ; no good thing
will he withhold from them that walk nprightlt/,
O Lord of Ilostsy blessed is the man that trust eth
in thee. Psalm Ixxxiv. 11. 12. Saj/ i/e to the
righteous that it shall be well zoith him : for the?/
shall eat the fruit of their doings. Isaiah, iii. 10.
And thef/ thai be Wi^e shall shine as the brightness
of the firmament ; and they that turn many to
righteousness as the stars for ever and ever. —
Daniel xii. 3.
Here then, reackr, is a short sample of Bible
Fortune-tellint^, which miglit easily be enlarged
an hundred-told ; And that which adds to the va-
lue of the whole, is, that the Holy Spirit is the
Fortune-teller
Eminent Testimonies against Jstrology^
'We
ROHAULT,
E do not own any n<her virtue to be m the
stars by which they can act here below, but that
of the light which comes trnni them to us : —We
cannot allow them any further power or virtue in
those effects produced upon I he earth, but in pro-
portion to their lighti And because the light oi^
122
thesun alone is infinitely greater than tliat of all
the stars put together, we ought to look upon that
as the cause of all celestial efFecls. And it we do
not always experience (he same contislution of air
whf'jnever the sun sends forth his rays in the same
manner upon the earth, we must not seek for the
cause hereof in the stars, but look upon it as the
cflect of the present disposition of the air or
earlh.
'• I am persuaded that Ihe ancient philosophers
had no other notions of the influences of the stars
but such as these : But because the Egyptians who
were very good Astronomers, thought tit to distin-
guish divers days of the solar year, by the different
iiKed stars which rise immediately a fter sun-set,
and took care to give notice to the people of the
temperature of the air which ihey observed in cer-
tain seasons, and of what was proper for them to
do in agriculture, when certain stars rise after sun-
set ; they took that for the cause^ which was in-
tended only for the sign : And hence came the no-
tion of moist stars whose rising produced rain, of
others that caused drought ; and of some that made
plants to grow, and of others which had a parti-
cular dominion over certain animals!
" The experience we have of the temperature of
the air being not always the same every year, tho'
the same fixed stars never fail to rise when the sun
sets, is enough to undeceive those who affirm that
all things Iiere below depend upon the stars : But
because the planets alter their situation in the hea-
vens every year ; under this pretence they have
excused their mistake, and taken occasion from
hence to ascribe to the rising of the planets, or to
their different situation in the heavens, all those
powerful efficacies which they before ascribed t»
the fixed stars.
123
'^ And as the vanity of men's minds is always in-
creasing : after lliey had once snfFered th('mselv< s
io be prejndiced with this false notion of the virtue
and eflicacy of the pLmcts, knowini^ (Iiat they
could be certain of <hesltaition of the planets for
the time to come, by astronomical calculation,they
puffed themselves up wi(h the inv 'ntion ot an art,
whichcould tell things to come : as rain, fair wea-
ther, wind, thunder, tcmpesis, plenty, famine,
war, and such like things. This art is what they
caW Judicial Aslroh<ij/, which some boast (hem-
selves masters of, and are got to such a pitch of
vanity as to promise to predict the most particular
actions and fortunes of persons.
" In order to avoid being deceived by such vain
promises as these ; "we ought to consider in the
Jirst place, that this Astrology has no foundation ;
"and that it cannot be proved by any reason, that
any such powers arc in the stars as Astrologers
ascribe to tlnm.
** Secondly. It is certain that they have not even
experience on their side, which Jiowcver they ap-
peal to, and upon which they build their art : For,
as it would be ridiculous to affirm, that experience
shewrsus, that Socrates going out of town, pro-
duced thunder, because it was observed tothun(ier
once, at the moment that this Philosopher was got
into tlie road to go into the country ; so, likewise,
is it ridiculous to affirm, that we have the experi-
ence that such a constitution of the stars produced
for example, the sickness of a Prince, because it
^as once observed, that a Prince was sick when
they were in that disposition. And indeed, so far
are Astrologers from having many times observed,
what the dispositions which the stars will be in to-
morrow in the heavens is capable of producing,
that strictly speaking, we may affirm, that they
1
124
have not (be least observation at all ; because il
will take up several thousand years before such a
constitution of the stars as we have remarked, can
happen twice. So that we may affirm, that such
a constitution in the heavens as will be to-morrow,
has Hol been yet since the creation of the world.
*' We may add tothis, that it" we allow Astrolo-
gers to have made some observations of what has
Jiappened in former ages, under certain positions
of the stars: yet they would be of no use but in
the countries were they were made ; for it is cer-
tain that whatever the disposition of the heavens
be, the same clearness or the same tempest does
not reach over the whole superfices of the earth,
but many times it rains very liard in one country
for a great part of the year, when in another coun-
try not far off, it is dry.
*' Further, I cannot forbear taking notice here, of
4he vain credulity, or rather foolish error of most
Europeans, about the star called the Dog, who be-
lieve it to be of a hot nature, and that it is the
cai^se of the heat that commonly happens about
the time that it rises when the sun rises, and which
is called the Dog-dai/s, For the people that live
in the southern parts of the earth, and over whose
zenith this star passes, have much greater reason
to believe that it is of a cold nature, because at the
same time when this star rises with the sun, which
is the season wherein we often feel the greatest
heat they find the greatest cold, and are in the
depth of Winter.
*^ Perhaps it may here be said, that Astrologers do
sometimes hit upon the truth, which I do indeed
allow : But this does not at all establish their sci-
ence ; because there is no person, be he ever so ig-
norant, but if he undertook to foretel things to
come, he would by chance hit upon some things
125
that come to pass, as well as upon some that did
not, in the same manner as the greatest Astrologers
in the world."
S^st» of Nat, Philosopht/.
•Ti
ABBE PLUCHE.
HE history of tlie orij^in of this protended
science, is the refutation of it, since the whole of
Astrology in its rise is still nothing but a false in-
terpretation of a few signs, taken in a wrong sense,
"The Egyptians had iiisensibly and hy degrees
looked u])on tlie names of the zodiacal signs, and
of maiiy others, as memorials of what had happen-
ed to their founder, to tlieir common mother, and
toother heroes of their country. The history of
these assumed another form in other places. The
worship of the great king, the queen, and the hea-
venly host, had in leed passed from Ei;'ypt into
Phoenicia, thence into Arabia, Assyria, and almost
every where else ; but with the lugg ige of the fi-
gures, all nations did not equally admit of the ab-
surd icwti of the metempsychosis, much less the
histories of Egyptian gods, which were of no con-
cern to other people. Nations were generally con-
tented with honouring the sun as the great mover
of nature. The meon had the second "rank in the
class of powers ; then each sign and constellation
had its proper district and measure of influence
assigned it. iSut what function shall the /»'<7?/z, the
JAon. and the BaJance^ obtain in the heaven?
Why, men imagined that their names were indi-
cations of their several offices, and specifications
of their influences. Tlie rrt/« thevetore had a strong
influence over the young of the flocks. The ba-
lance CQ\x\^ inspire nothing but inclinations to good
136
©rder and justice. The scorpion was fit to excite
none but mischievous dispositions. Each sign in
short caused the good or the evil intimated by its
name.
'' But on whom are these influences to fall? Shall
they turn and set every thing topsy-turvy upon the
earth ? This was provided against. A speculative
and systematic gcniu.s conceived that the critical
moment for the exercise of the power of each sign,
was that at which it ascended the horizon, and
that the child born at the self-same instant was he
who found the strongest impressions from it.
Thence, by an argument, which, silly as it was,
made a st^eedy progress, our philosopher conclu-
ded that the child who came into the world at the
exact instant when the first star of the/^^??z ascend-
ed the horizon, would infallibly be rich in cattle,
and su of the rest. This wa« a sorry abuse of the
emblematic relation ^\ hich is between the sun under
this constellation^ and the beginning of the spriiig
in wliich the lambs come to be saleable, and of
advantage to their masters. This was a way of argu-
ing nearly like that of a man, who should imagine
that in order to have good wine in his cellar, it
would be enough to hang a cork at his door, and
who should mistake for the cause of a thing what
would be onlj the mark and sign of it.
" They ran into the same extravagance as to
the power of the Bull and the Kids, They under-
stood (pray aJmirethe conceit) that the enterprises
of him who hhouid come into the world under the
sign of Cancer^ should always go backwards and
downwards. The Lion wafe to inspire courage,
andpronuee heroes, or, if you will, quarreUome
fellows! The aspect of the Virf^in carrying the
celestial ear of corn, was to iii&pire < hastitv, and
Unite virtue and abundance. Happy the peopkr
1S7
"whose king should be born under the sign Libra*
Vengeance to all that should light under the hor-
rid sign of the Scorpionl The fortune of him who
was born under Capricorn^ and especially when
the sun ascended the horizon, together with that
sign, was always to get upwards like this animal
and tbe siin^ which thcsi ascends tor six months
togellier. AH these little trifling subtilties were
often contradicted by quite contrary events. But
people in this case insisted muchupoFi the confor-
mity of several other events with the prediction,
and th y found means to get out of the briars, and
avoid contradictions, by alledging the concourse
of the moon, the other planets, and the stars,
which by either their opposition or conjunction,
as it were, blunted the goodness of certain influen-
ces and mitigated the malignity of others,
*' The nicest part of the art was to know how to
combine these situations ; io observe whether the
influences proceeded in parallel lines; whether
the fall of some was oblique and perpendicular
upon others. They must have known how to
measure portions of circles, how to calculate an-
gles by the tangent and signs, and study the oeco-
nomy of the lieavens, in order to know the diver-
sity of the aspects. The Astrologer took a pride
in a mere outside of learning. Geometry and As-
tronomy, the finest of sciences, thus served to in-
troduce into the world all the insipidities of Astro-
logy. Nor is it useless here to observe, that a
system, which more than any pretends to be con-
nected with Astronomy and Geometry, may very
well prove a mere learned chimaera.
" But the greatest of the evils caused by Astro-
logy is, not only to feed men's minds with frivolous
promises, trifling operations and influences void
of reality. The error was itself great indeed : but
m2
128
it had consequences still more dismal. The celes-
tial signs, or the points of the heaven designed to
mark by a certain denomination certain effects
proper to each season, were no sooner taken for
the causes of these effects, but this pitiful mistake
obtained credit, because men fancied they found
the reasons of every thing therein, and an iaialli-
ble means of avoiding the evils they are threatened
with. They pitched upon such a month, day,
hour, and aspect, to begin a voyage,a ploughing,
a piece of stuff. They forbore doing anything,
till they should be under a favourable point. The
ascendant point of such a star produced this, and
tlie culminant point of the same or another star
corrected that. Men were no longer employed
about any thing but studying with anxiety the de-
cisive seasons, days, and critical months. Astro-
logy, in some sense, did morcmichicf than idola-
try itself! The latter, criminal as it was, yet per-
mitted some remains of gratitude for favours re-
ceived, and of a religious awe for the infinitely
just who punishes wicked actions, to subsist in
minds seduced with regard to the object of their
worship, iiut Astrology completed the ruin of
every virtue ! To prudence, to experience, and
wise precautions, it substituted superstitious set
forms, and puerile practice. It enervated men's
courage by apprehensions grounded on a few puns
and quibbles. It abolished the practice of virtue
almost every where, and quieted criminal minds,
hy making them cast upon the unavoidable im-
pression of the predominant planet, the evil which
was but the result of their natural depravation :
And this dismal facility of quieting and lulling
the conscience asleep, doubtless is the secret rea-
son why ambitious and voluptuous men, while
they are altogether insensible of the beauty of th«
129
Gospel, and the multitude of proofs which sup-
port it, yet receive with a blind credulity the pre-
dictions of Astrology, and the arguments that art
most desitute of probability !
^'
Influence of the Moon,
ti AT
1^ OW the remarks of our fishermen, of our
judicious gardeners, our surgeons of integrity,
and a thousand trials made and carefully repeated
for some years last past by Messieurs of the Aca-
demy of Sciences, and by other most cautious and
attentive men, have convinced us, that the Moon
has neither heat nor any kind of influence Avhat-
ever on the generation of any terrestial or aquatic
animal, nor on the generation or alteration of any
living or vegetative being that exists. What will
then become of the malignity of Saturn, the fa-
vourable aspect of VenusJ
and the riches of 3/er-
cury ? All these distinctions and systems area
pitiful consequence of the character and inclina-
tions whom Egypt, Pheiiicia, and Greece, have
imagined to be in certain stars, in which they had
equal reason to imagine the reverse,
'''
All practices grounded on this persuasion,
can therefore be nothing but superstitions destruc-
tive of inety, sciences, and society. Of society,
since they tie men up to no manner of purpose;
of sciences^ si'ice they stop the progress of them
by busying us about causes productive of no ef-
fects ; and o{])iety, since, without being profes-
sed idolaters, we nevertheless commit idolatrous
acts, and since, after having renounced all these
gods of antiquity, we do not abjure the virtues and
operations, the belief of which they had intro-
duced."
History of the Heavens.
M 3
tS6
MONSIEUR ROLLIN.
J\S to the Babylonians, and other Easterns
Philosophers, the study of the heavenly bodies wa&
so far from leading them,as it ought to have done,
to the knowledge of him who is both their creator
and director, that for the most part it carried
them into impious practices, and the extravagan-
cies of Judicial Astrology. So we term that de-
ceitful and presumptuous science, which teaches
to judge of things to come by the knowledge of
the stars, and to foretel events by the situation of
the planetsj and their different aspects. A science
justly looked upon as a madness and folly by all
the most sensible writers among the pagans them-
selves. O delirationem incredibilem ! (O the in-
credible madness !) cries Cicero, in refuting the
extravagant opinions of those Astrologers, fre-
quently called Chaldeans, from the country that
i5rst produced them ; who, in consequence of the
observations made, as they affirmed, by their pre-
decessors upon all past events, for the space only
of four hundred and seventy thousand years ! pre-
tended to know assuredly by the aspect and com*
binatioDS of the stars and planets, at the instant of
a child's birth, what would be his genius, temper,
manners, the constitution of his body, his actions,
and in a word, all the events, with the duration
of his life. He repeats a thousand absurdities of
this opinion, the very ridicule of which exposes
it to contempt : and asks, why of all that number
of children that are born in the same momentjand
without doubt exactly under the same aspect of
the stars, there are not two of them whose lives
and fortunes resemble each other ? He puts this
further question, whether that great number of
laen that perished at the battle of Cannae, and
131
died of one and the same death, ivete all born
under the same constellations ?
It is hardly credible, that so absurd an art,
founded entirely upon fraud and imposture,/rGW-
dulentissima artium, (The most fraudulent of
Arts,) as Pliny calls it, should ever acquire so
much credit, as this has done, throughout the
whole world mu\ in all ages. What has suppor-
ted and brought it into so great vogue, continues
that author, is the natural curiosity men have to
penetrate into futurity, and to know bcforeliand
the things that are to befall them : A^uHg ^?on avido
futurade se sciendi ; (There is no one that is not
greedy of knowing his future fate) attended with a
superstitious credulity, which finds itself agreeably
flattered with the large and grateiul promises of
which tliose fortune-tellers are nes^er sparing.
" Modern writers, and among others, two of
our greatest philosophers, Gassendus Si, Rohault^
have fnvcighed against the folly of that pretended
science with the same energy, and have demon-
strated it to be equally void of principles and ex-
perience.
" As for its principles. The heaven, according
io the system of the Astrologers, is divided into
twelve equal parts, which parts are taken not ac-
cording to the poles of tlie world, but to those of
the zodiac. These twelve parts, or proportions of
heaven, have each of them its attribute, as riches,
knowledge, parentage, &c. The most important
and decisive portion 'is that which is next under
the horizon, and which is called the ascendant,
because it is ready to ascend and appear above the
horizon when a man comes into the world. The
planets are divided into the propitious, the malig-
nant, and the mixed. The aspects of these pla-
nets, which are only certain distances from one
ISS
another, are likewise either happy or unhappy.,
I say nothing of several other hypotheses, which
are all equally arbitrary : and I ask whether any
man of common sense can give into them upon the
bare word of these impostors, without any proofs,
or even without the least sliadow of probability?
The critical moment, and that on which all their
prediction depends, is that of the birth. And
why not as well the moment of conception ? \V hy
have the stars no influence during the nine months
of child-bearing ? Or is it possible, considering
the incredible rapidity of the heavenly bodies, al-
ways to be sure of hitting the precise determined
moment, without the least variation of more or
less, which is sufficient to overthrow all ? A
thousand other objections of the same kind might
be made, which are altogether unanswerable.
'• As for experience^ they have still less reason
to flatter themselves on that side. Whatever they
have of that, must consist in observations founded
upon events, that have always come to pass in the
same manner, whenever the planets were found in
the same situation. Now it is unanimously agreed
by all Astronomers, that several thousands of years
must pass before any such situation of the stars, as
they would imagine, can twice happen; and it is-
very certain that the state in which the heavens
will be to-morrow, has never jet been since the
creation of the world. The reader may consult
the two philosophers above mentioned, particularly
Gassendusy who has more copious!}^ treated this
subject. But such, and no better, are the founda-
tions upon which the whole structure of Judicial
Astrology is built.
" But what is astonishing, and argues an abso-
lute want of all reason, is, that certain pretended
•wits, who obstinately harden themselves against
133
the most convincing proof? of religion, and who
refuse to believe even the clearest and most certain
prophecies upon the word of God, do sometimes
give entire credit to the vain predictions of those
Astrologers and impostors.
" St. Austin, in sevcsal passages of his writings,
informs us that this stupid and sacrilegious credu-
lity is a just cliastiscinent from God, who frequent-
ly punishes the vpjuntary blindness of meii, by
inflicting a still greater blindness ; and who suffers
evil spirits, that they may keep their servants still
faster in their nets, sometimes to foretel them things
wliich do really come to pass, and of which the
expectation very often serves only to torment
them.
*^ God, who alone foresees futnvc contingencies
and events, because he alone is the sovereign dis-
poser and director of them, does often in scripture
revile the ignorance ofthe IJabylonian Astrologers,
so much boasted of, calling them forgers of lies
and falsehoods : He moreover desires all their
false gods to foretel any thing whatsoever, and
consents, if they do^ that they should be wor-
shipped as Gods, Then addressing himself to
the city of Babylon, he particularly declares all
the circumstances of the miseries with which she
shall be overwhelmed above two hundred years
after that prediction ; and that none of her prog-
nosticators, who had flattered her with assurances
of a perpetual grandeur they pretended to have
read in tlie stars, should be able to avert the judg-
ment, or even to foresee the time of its accom-
plishment. Indeed, how should they? since at
the very time of its execution, when Belshazzar
the last king of Babylon, saw a hand come out of
the wall, and wrhe unknown characters thereoUj,
the Magi, Chaldeans, and in a word all the pre*
134
tended sages of tlie country, were not able sd
much as to read the writing. Here then we see
Astrology and Magic convicted of ignorance and
impotence, in the very place where they were
most in vogue, and on an occasion when it was
certcjinly their interest to display their science and
power."
Aiicient Ilislori/^ vol, 2,
ON THE INfLUEXCE OF COMETS.
[On the apppar.-jnce of that awful Comet in the later end of
the Summer of 1811 .the following ttatemetit was publisheil
in several Newspapers; arid tliou^h it may appear fo gome
irrelevani to the gei)e?al purport of Jhii* i3uok, yet I presume
the singulaiity of the infcucnre which (.'ometg have, an<i the
useful moral dedncible iherefroia, will be a sufficient apology
for giving it a place here.]
" Ludicrous Effects of the appearance of a
Comet In 1712.
*
In the year 1715, Mr. Whiston having cal-
culated tl e return of a Cometj whicii was to make
its appearance on Wednesday, the 14th of Octo-
ber at five minutes after five in the morning, gave
notice to the public accordingly, with this terri-
fying addition—that a total dissolution of the
world by fire was to take place on the Friday fol-
lowing. The reputation Mr. Wiiiston liad long
maintained both as a Divine and a Philosopher,
left little or no doubt with the Populace, of the
truth of his prediction. Several ludicrous events
now took place
'' A number of persons in and about London,
seized all the barges and boats on the Thames, very
rationally concluding, that when the conflagratioa
135
look place, there would be the most safety on the
water.
" \ gentleman who had neglected family prayer
for more than five years, informed his wife, Hiat
it was his determination to resume the laudable
practice ihc same evening ; but his wife, having
engaged a ball at her house persuaded her husband
to put it off, till they saw whether the Comet ap-
peared or liot.
*' The South Sea Stock immediately fell to five
per cent, and the India to II ; and the captain of
a Dutch ship threw all his gunpowder into the ri^
ver, that his vessel might not be endangi red.
" The next morning, however, the Comet ap-
peared according to the j>rediclion, and before
noon tlie belief was universal that the Day of Judg-
ment was at hand. About this time two hundred
and twenty-three clergymen were fiTried over to
Lambeth; it was said, to petition that a short pray-
er might be penned and ordered, there being none
in the church service on tha* occasion.
*' Three maids of honour burnt their collections
of plays and novels, and sent to a Bookseller's to
purchase each of them a Hible, and Bishop Tay-
lor's' Tloly Living and Djing.'
<* The run upon the Bank was so great, that all
hands were employed from morning till night, in
discouiiting notes and handing out specie. On
Thursday considerably more than seven thousand
kept mistresses weie h-gally married in the iace of
S(*veral congregations. And, to crown the wliolo
farce, Sir Gilbert Ileathcoate, at that time head
director of the B-mk^ issued orders to all the tire-
ofiices in l/ondon, requiiingthejn to keep a good
look-out, and a particular e^e upon the Bank of
Ejiglaiid."
Tiiunton Coinicr, Aov. 14, 1811.
136
From the above statement, which I apprehend
is founded in fnct, we mny fairlj deduce this infer-
ence, namely, that there is in the hearts even of
most men that are wicked, a sentiment in favour
of morality and religion: and that thouirh they
m'rv deny it by their tongues and their lives,
yet in the extremity of danger they frequently-
confess it by their fears !
It were to be wii?hed that if the signs and planets
shouhl have any influence upon mankind,it should
be somewhat similar to that of Comits: for the
influence that would frighten men out of their
sins, and into their senses, would be infinitely
preferable to that chimerical influence ascribed by
X)r. Siblj/ and Co. to constellations and wandering
Altars.
1
ASTROLOGY AND FORTUNE-TELLING
BURLESQUED.
SAMUEL GARTH, M. D.
'Ani,
inner room receives the numerous shoals
Of such as pay to be reputed fools :
Globes stand on Globes, volumes on volumes lie,
And planetary schemes amuse the eye.
The sage in velvet chair here lolls at ease,
To promise future wealth for present fees.
Then, as froni Tripod, solemn shams reveals.
And what the Stars know nothing of, foretells.
One asks, how soon Fanihca may be won.
And longs to feel the marriage fetters on :
Others, convinc'd by melancholy proof.
Enquire wlien courteous fate will strike them off.
Some by what meanis they may redress the wrong,
137
When Fathers the possession keep too long*
And some would know the issue of their cause,
And whether Gold can solder up its flaws.
Poor pregnant Lais his advice would have,
To lose by art what fruitful nature gave.
And Portia^ old in expection grown.
Laments her barren curse, and begs a son;
Whilst Iris his cosmetic wash would try,
To make her bloom revive, and Lover die.
Some ask for charms, and others Philtres choose,
Te gain Coriiwa, and their quartans lose.
Young Hylas^ botch'd with stains too foul to name,
In cradle here renews his youthful frame
Cloy'd with desire, and surfeited with charms,
A hot-house he prefers to Julia's arms.
And old Lucullus would th'ai canum prove.
Of kindling in cold veins the sparks of Love."
Dispensary,
Astrology Contemned bij Chapman.
44 T
JL AM a nobler substance than the stars :
And shall the baser over-rule the better?
Or are they better since they are the bigger ?
I liave a will and faculties of choice.
To do or not to do ; and reason why
I do or not do this : t/ie stars have none.
They know not why they shine, more than this Taper,
Nor howthey work, norwhat. I'll change my course,
I'll piecemeal pull the frame of all my thoughts :
And where arc all your Caput Algols'Wwu^.
Youv pla?icts all being underneath the earth
At my nativity : what can they do ?
Malignant in aspects! in bloody houses !
Give me a spirit that on life's rough sea.
Loves to have his sails tilled with a lusty wind.
Even till his sail yards tremble, his masts crack,
And his rapt ship run on her side so low,
N
138
That she drinks water, and her kee> ploughs alt.
There is no danger to a man, that knows
What life and death is : there's not any law
Exceeds his knowledge : neither is it lawful
That he should stoop to any other law :
He goes before them, and commands them all.
That to himself is a law rational."
liyron^s Consjnract/-
Astrology Rldicukd by Butler
T,HEY'LL search a Planet's house to know
Who broke and robb'd a house below:
Examine Venus and the Moon
Who stole a thimble, who a spoon.
And tho' they nothing will confess^
Yet by their very looks can guessj
And tell what guilty aspect bodes,
Who stole, and who receiv'd the goods.
They'll feel the pulses of the stars.
To lind out agues, coughs, catarrhs:
And tell what crisis doth divine
The rot in sheep, the mange in swine:
In men, what gives or cures the itch.
What makes them cuckolds, poor, or rich;
What gains or loses, hangs or saves;
W^hat makes men great, what fools, what knaves
But not uhat wise : for only of those
The stars, they ^ay, cannot dispose,
No more than can the Astrologians;
There they say right, and like true Trojans.
Some towns and cities, some for brevity,
Ha^e cast the 'versal world's nativity,
And made tho infant stars confess,
Lik<- fools or ciuldren, what they pfease.
Some calculate the hidden fates
Ot Monkeys Puppies, Dogs, and Cats,
Some running Nags and fighting cocks;
139
Some Love, Trade, Law-suits, and the [StockSj]
Some take a measure of the lives
Of Fathers, Mothers, Husbands, Wives,
Make Opposition trine and quartile.
Tell who is barren, and who fertile.
As if the Planet's first aspect
The tender infant did infect
No sooner has he peep'd into
Tills world, but he has done his do ;
Catch'd all diseases, took all physic,
That cures or kills a man that is sick ;
Marry'd his punctual dose of wives,
Is cuckolded, and breaks or thrives,
There's but a twinkling of a Star
Between a man of peace and war ;
A Thief and Justice, Fool and Knave,
A huifing Officer and a Slave;
A crafty Lawyer and Pick-Pocket,
A great Philosoplier and a Blockhead;
A formal Preacher and a Player,
A learned Phj-sician and Manslayer.*
As if Men from the stars did suck
Old age, diseases, and ill luck;
Wit, folly, honour, virtue vice,
Trade, Trawl, Women, [Cards] and Dice:
And draw with the first air tiiey breathe
Battle and Mnrther, sudden death.
So when your speculations tend
Above their just and useful end,
Although they promise strange and great
Discoveries of things far fet,
They are but idle dreams and fancies,
And savour strongly of the Ganzas.
Tell me but what's the nat'ral cause,
Why on a sign no Painter draws
The full-moon evw, but the half.
Resolve that with your Jacob's Staff: -
Or why Wolves raise a hubbub at her,
Qr Dogs howl when she shines in water
]s2
140
And I shall freely give my vote
You may know something more remote." tlitdibraSi
The Almanack-Maker and Conjurer
Ridiculed.
^ XTE had been long tow'rds Matheraaticks,
Opticks, Philosophy, and Staticks,
Magick, Horoscopy, Astrology,
And was old Dog at Physiology.
But as a Dog that turns the spit.
Bestirs himself, and plies his feet
To climb the wheel but all in rain,
His own weight brings him down again;
And still he's in the self-same place,
Where at his setting out he was ;
So in the circle of the Arts,
Did he advance his nat'ral parts :
Till falling back still for retreat,
fle fell to juggle, cant and cheat.
For as those fowls that live in water
Are never wet, he did but smatter,
Whate'er he labour'd to appear,
His understanding still was clear.
He*d read Dee's JPrefaces before
The Devil and Euclid o'er and o'er.
He with the Moon was more familiar,
Than e'er was Almanack-well, wilier
Her secrets understood so clear,
That some believ'd he had been there :
Knew when she was in fittest mood
For cutting corns, and letting blood ;
Cure warts or corns with application
Of med'cines to th' imagination.
Fright agues into dogs, and scare -
With rhiraes the tooth-ache and catarrh.
He knew whatever's to be known
But, much more than he knew, -vrould own*" Ibid,
141
Astrology Contemned, hy PERSIUS,
The Roman Poet, who liv'd in the reign of Nero,
the Tyrant.
Mj or men of ditf'rent inclinations are,
Tho' born perhaps beneath one cenimon star.
In minds and maaners twins oppos'd we see
In the same sign, almost the same degree:
One, frugal, on his birth-day fears to dine; )
Docs at a Penny's cost in herbs reph^e, ^
And hardly dares to dip his Qngors in the brine, j
Prcpar'd as Priest of his own Rites to stand,
He sprinkles pepper with a sparing hand.
His jolly brother, opposite in sense^
^
Laughs at his thrift, and lavish of expence, >
Quaffs, crams, and gutties, in his own defence." }
Satires: Drj/clcn^s Translation*
Astrology Ridiculed by Shakespeare.
"TiHIS is the excellent foppery of the world,
that, when we are sick in fortune, (often the surfeits
of our own behaviour) we make guilty of our disasters
the sun, the moon, and stars ; as if we were villains
on necessity; fools, by heavenly compulsions; knaves,
thieves, and treacherous, by spherical predominance;
drunkards, liars, and adulterers, by an inforc'd obe-
dience of planetary intiu<nice; and all that we are
evil in, by a divine thrusting on. An admirable eva-
sion of wliore-master man, to lay his goatish disposi-
tion on the charge of a star ! My father compounded
with my mother under the dragon's tail, and my na~
tivity was under Ursa Major; so that it follows I
am rough and lecherous. 1 should have been what I
am, had the maidenlieststar in the firmament twinkled
on my bastardizing I"
Shakespeare's King Lear,
w
142
DR. PARKINS,
OfLittle Gonerbi/^ near Grantham^ Lincolnshire.
T,KIS Dr, Parkins has published a Book so lately as the
:searlSlO,which I think is Cfilculated to do as much mischief to
the ignorantaiid supeistitiouspart of mankind,as any book now
extant ; & it is wonderful, that in an .'ige which boasts ot a Roy-
al Society —A Bible Society —Philo'op'iical Society —Cheap
Tract Society, &Sunriay Schools; besides its various Mngaziues
and Reviews, there should yet be found a man of !-ufficicnt ef-
frontery to publish a Eook bearing the followin£: Title;
" The Universal Fortune-Tellev, Or an Infallible Guide to
the Secret and Hidden Decrees of Fate. Being a new and re-
gular System of Foretelling Future Events and Contingencies-.
Containing the Art of Divination, by the Sciences of Astrology,
Physiognomy, Geomancy, Palmistry, Moles, Cards, &'C. Anrf
also how to receive Oracles by Dreams :
*' Mathematical Magic ; or Divination by Numbers, Birds,
and Beasts ; Together w ith the method of conversing with any
person, by an Art called the Silent Language.
"Unto which is added, the Use, Virtue, and Description of
the Wheel of Fortune, Teaching how to Divine and Prognosti-
cate by the samel"
It was my purpose to make several extracts from this loonder-
ful Production, but want of room obliges nie to forego my de-
sign, I will, however, just favour the reader ivith two or three
of Dr Parkins's DreaniSy and /<is interpretation of them
*' To dream \ou are riding in a <"'oach, insures you prospe-
rity according to your actions and situalionin life; if it is a gilt
and very handsome Coach, 30U will rise in the State; if it is a
Hackney 1 oach, you will get a lucrative employment, but if
your Coacli should break down, you will be turned out with
disgrace!"
** lo dream you are eating Oysters., shews prospeiity, or
that you will be married to a person that is really a virgin, and
willloveyou; b«t if the fish should fall from you in your
dreara, you will lose the person's affections" !
** To Dream of Gpese, is a sign that an absent friend will soon
return."!
** To dream you areat"a/e«sf denotes extraordinary satisfac-
tion."!
This famous Dr. teaches Ladies how to tell fortunes by the
Tea-Cup, for one Guinea: and by the Cflu ^v for the same fee !
What an Useful Member of Society Dr.Paukins must needs be !
I have only to add, that since the publication of the above
Book, Dreams, &c. &c. this same Dv, Par/ans has publbheA
143
a Dissertation on Vill'^^ XT !! ! I hope the Doctor will not
fail to fiive his Dissertation a second and a third reading-, for his
9wn edification.
The best of all the wonderfnl things in the Doctor's Book,
Is the following couplet, which is placed under his Wheel of
Fortune ;
** The Midwife ivheeln us in, and Death it icheels i/seu/,
Thus you mag clearly see, hovo we are whecVd about''
As a motto to the Doctor's re:^t Edition of h\^ Wonderful
Book, I recommend the following Couplet
** Assets so stvarm., that who^d not see an Jss^
Must live alone, and break his Looking- Glass.^*
CONTENTS, Pftffe
Fixed Stars, or the Admirer'^s Letter . 5
Fixed Stars, or, a Letter to the Editor of the
Leeds Mercery, in answer to the '" Admirer" . 8
Preiiminarij Remarks on Astrology/ . . 12
Analijzation and Explanation of the Twelve Signs
of the Zodiac . . . .13
Analyzation of the Planets . . . 19
Of the Dog Star . . r . 23
Astral and Plajietary Influences . . . 24
Bible Astrology . . . .26
The Doctrines of Astrology cannot be rHaintained
by Experience . . . . 29
The Moon\i influence not founded in Experience 41
Seven More Arguments against Astrology 43
Rev. fV, Perkins's Analyzation and Refutation
of Astrology, in answer to a Questant Coun-
tryman . . . . .50
Anecdotes of Fortune-telling. Fortune-seeking, &c.
The Co?ijurer, and the Poor Man and his Pig 85
The :i hcj/ield Foriune.teiter and the IVushing.tub 88
The Asii ologer and the .^lan and his Maid . 89
The Pregnant Lady and the Fortune-teller . 91
The Unhappy Young Man and the Fortune-teller 92
The Fortune'tellery the Lady and her Elopement ^3
144'
Pag€
Fortune-seeking : Three Servant Maids and the
Dumb'cake . . . , 94
The (-r^p^i/Jhe Credulous ManSfhis Seventy Pounds 95
The Married JVoman^ the Fortune-teller^ and the
Poor-house . . . .96
The Felon, the Fortune-teller, and the Gallows 97
The Fortune-teller and the Prussian Peat ant 98
ON THE VANITY AND IGNORANCE OF ASTROLOGERS,
Cardan^ Gauricus, and Henry II. of France^
and others .... 99
King Henry VU. and the Astrologer . 100
Brief Memoirs of Jerome Cardan, the famous
Astrologer ... . , 101
The Fortune-teller Bm^ned . . . . 103
Ridiculous Jargon of an Almanack Maker ibid
Predictions, Moore^s Almanack, Sic. . 104
Lucky and Unlucky Days . . 105
Astrology may be a National as zi-ell as anindivim
dual Sin . . . 106
General Observations o?i Astrology^ Fortune
Telling, Familiar Spirits, Si'c. . . 108
The Fortune 'Teller's Conjuring Cap . 112
The Best Fortune -Telling . . . 120
Eminent Testimonies against Astrology : Rohault 121
Abbe Pluche ..... 125
Monsieur Rollin ..... 130
On the Influence of Comets . . , 134
Astrology and Fortune-telling Burlesqued :-t-S.
Garth, M. L>. 136
Astrology Contemned, by Chapman . .137
Astrology Hidiculed, by Butler . . . 138
The Almatiack -Maker and Conjurer Ridiculed 140
Astrology Contemned, by Per: ius . 141
Astrology Ridiculed, by Shakespeare * . ibid
Dr. Parkins, of Little Gunerby^ Lincolnshire 142
FINIS.
THIS DAT i^ t>u6 LISIiED
Price TWO^SHILLINGa m JSmrds.
THE
• I
LOOKING-GLASS: .^
11 here', 1 is Shcicn
FROM MANY HIGH vr TH0R1TIE8,
1 he Trivial Causes,
Crne! Natifre, Direftil Eflfect^,
iXTIXHRlSTlAN SPlPaT & FRACTICi
OF
WAR.
St??
Bya^^BEAUMONT?
^mhjER OF Ttin 0bSPEL OP PK.4C1^
:v, %
,
AbIT %^y^-^ had af all the BookstlJicrs in Town anci
toulUrjr/as Mentioned of^ tJit> Tttle-page t0 *lii«
^
•
"r"
