{"name":"Joanna Southcotts Answer To Five Charges In The Leeds Mercury","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1805__southcott___joanna_southcotts_answer_to_five_charges_in_the_leeds_mercury.pdf","mytitle":"Joanna Southcotts Answer To Five Charges In The Leeds Mercury","mylang":"de"}
JO AN N A SOUTHCOTT’s
tftbt Charges
IN THE
L E E D S' M E R C U F t Y %
Four ■of which, are absolutely parser
But as in the first Charge, her Accuser might havtt
some room for Cavilling, she wishes to make
every Allowance,; .and give a.clear Answer*
how that was misunderstood: and not
only to Answer the ’ .
FOUR FALSE CHARGES
that are brought against her; but she has brought -
p o u r t r u e c h a r g e r ;
Printed byA. Seale, 160, Tottenham Court Road.
Sold by. E. J. Field, a, High-street> St'(Giles's, tVed doors from A#
Angel Inn; E. Carpenter, near ^the Elephant and Castle*
Newington Butts ; C. A bbott, East End o f Old-street*
near Shoreditch Church; WV Symonds, Gandy-lame* *
Exeter; Miss EvBLKiGHSj/St. Sidwell’s, Exeter,
and Mr. C h ild, Stourbridge, Wotcestershke* "
against
which will be seen
In the following Pages*
Honhott ;
Price Sixpence*•
Digitized by Google
FIRST CHARGE.
fl I know she deelared to the W orld, that her sealing would cease
on the last day o f December, 1803, old style ; and it is well known
she continues the practice to this day.n
II. €( She positively declared, that in March last, the invasion
would take place; this I believe she did not put in print, but I daie
say the believer has heard her affirm it many times."’
III. " Is a tremendous prediction; your every Grain, savs the
Prophetess, shall be smittenwith rust and mildew.” Tnis the be­
lievers say, has come to pass ; I appeal, M r. Editor, to you am! all
the worW, whether the late harvest did not rather falsify than establish
this prediction; wheat was indeed in some places a failing crop, but
in several others it was exactly thereveise.
IV r **T com* poWto loattnals late awful T rial, so long foretold.
T h e unbelieving Clergy, it was said, “ would be compelled to be pre­
sent, and.acknowledge tjie mission o f this wonderful Woman ; I ask
the believers, is this true ?”
• V< ' “ And lastly, she frequently said, the Lord had made -it known
to her that she should not live to see the end of the year, 1804. Is
this true ? certimly not.- How then dare this woman charge such
falsehoods upon Heaven? The word of. God has decided upon her pre­
tensions, and says,' When a Prophet speaketh im the name of the
Lord, if the thing follow not, nor come to pass, that is the thing which
the Lord hath not spoken, but the Prophet hath spoken it presumptu.
ou sly; thou sh^lf not he afraid of him* .
^ Since Joanpa.had her answers to tlie charges brought against her
wrote for the press, a believer has found a few places in her bocks,
where the sealing is mentioned. One is in her Disputes u ith the Ptbivcrs
o f Darkness, page 126. u I w ill not hurt the earth or the sea till I
have sealed up^my servants,” &c.— the number in the Revelation is 144
thousand of all the tribes o f the children of Israel, which cannot be
limited to one year, and to one nation, h i the answer of the Lord
to the Powers of Darkness, page 53 and 54, is mentioned the blessings
to fhe sealed people, ahd what is to happen after one year's sealing. In
page 104 of the same Book, which ought to be read with great attention,
is the true meaning of the Sealing clearly explained ; and it thus says,
that after Joanna's death, her Seal must be given to a f r ie n d . Now
the reader’s good sense must convince him, that the sealing must conti­
nue for several years, which is to go into every land as being the leaves
for the heajing o f the nations. In p. 60 o f the 2d Book of J'isiuns, there it
is again said, the sealing is to go into different nations, and is again
mentioned in the Warning to the World, pages 53 and 54; and in pages
62 and 63 of the same Book, it. there speaks of the twelve nations to be
sealed ; but the greater number may appear in England. These two
pages ought to be read with attention; and in page 96 o f the same
Book, arp these w ords,.“ Therefore I have now given -my strict com­
mand, that no one shall have a Sealfrom thee who hath not read my
words, which cure,given to thee" T he command was'given after the
first sealing ended, which was the lasfday of December, 1803, old style.
THe reader may form a glorious idea of the effects of the sealing, by the
healing o f the nations, from the 9th verse of the 7th o f Revelation—
“ A fter this I beheld, and lo a great multitude, which no man could
number, o f all nations, and kindieds, and people, and tongues, stood
befdle the Throne, and before the Lamb, clothed with white robes and
palms in their hands, &c. ;
Digitized by Google
JO A N N A SOUTHCOTT's
ANSWER
To tie Charges in tie preceding Page;
Also, the true meaningof the Words of Christ onthe Cross,
Whenhesaid, “ I t is f in is h e d ."
T he frst C harge— That the Sealing would
“cease on the last day of December, 1803, old style.
Joanna's answer.— It is known to all, as to the
manner that my sealing first went out, which lasted
but one year, and stopped at the time mentioned; and
men were strictly charged by her, as well as what
was put in print, that none but believers were to be-
sealed for the future , so that the sealing for unbe*
lievers was Dut an end to; and they must be im­
postors, if ever any more that are unbelievers are
sealed. So the Spirit spoke the perfect Truth
there; but never was it said by me, nor by the
Spirit that attends me, that the sealing o f believers
would cease in one year: for in 1802, (I think it is
printed) it was said that after my death, my seal
would be given to someone, that would seal the peo­
ple of other nations, as well as this; and that the seal­
ing was never understood to cease, till the number
was sealed mentioned in the Revelation.
And here is the answer of the S p i r i t .
** Now, Joanna, I shall answer thee. It is to
bring all men to their Bibles, that I have directed
thee to go on in this manner, that is not known or
understood by man. Thou knowest I ordered the
sealing to go on for believers or unbelievers ; to
draw a bow at a venture, to seal those that wished
for my kingdom to be established, and Satan’s to
be destroyed; whether they were true believers in
thy visitation or not. But it is known unto thee
and all believers, that it ended* at the time mention­
ed ; and all were refused that came a day after;
so for unbelievers it tlere ceased, and the words for
them were fulfilled and verified. Now I shall bring
. men from this to my B i b l e : Know that 1 said on
the Cross—«Itis finished ! and now I will tell thee
A Digitized by Google what
• 4
what was fin ish e d S a ta n ’s power over M e was
finished; for, like the sealing for unbelievers, chat
was then put a stop to, by my command, so Sa­
tan’s malice was put a stop to, by my Power. For
though I submitted to his malice to the death of
the Cross; yet he had no power to go further ; for
with all the band of soldiers, that was placed by
his arts, working in men to secure M y Body, they
had no power to secure it, or prevent aiy rising
from the dead, in the same perfect Body I laid
down for man. So .all the arts, all the malice, and
all the power that men and devils, had over Me were
finished on the Cross', for they could go no further!!
.£ut did the arts of men and devils stop there ? or
did their malice and fury stop there ? Did they not
follow my disciples with the same malice, the same
fury, and the same unbelief, and persecuted them
as they before had persecuted M e ? Now I ask
mankind, what they will p.ovc was finished at that
time, any more than I have mentioned ? For if all
the power o f the D evil had been finished, and all
unbelief had been .finished, and all M r W ork had
-been accomplished, it must stop there, and have
gone no further 4 perfectly so is the sealings my
strict command was given, to put a stop to all un­
believers being sealed at the end of that year. And
know I said whoever came in after, without faith,
were Thieves and Robbers; so the Truth of
the Words were verified and fulfilled by M e, by
the command I gave .to thee. But did my disci­
ples understand what I meant, when 1 said it was
finished? All men must answer no; neither didst
thou understand, or did thy friends understand tiie
meaning of letting unbelievers be sealed that year,
and then stop them, before I explained it unto
thee ; and perfectly so is M y B ible, which many
men wrest to their own condemnation— as they no
more understand the meaning of my words, saying
• —
It was finished, than they understand the mean­
ing of thy sealing being put a stop to at the end o f
the year. But know what I told thee before, in
the answer $0 the powers o f darkness, {the 93d
Digitized by Google
page) The people shall be numbered by the seats,
and the number of the tribes, mentioned in the Re­
velation, shall now be .sealed. Now let men mark
the words, and then judge for themselves, whether
they thought that number could come in oneyear,
or, whether they thought 1 meant to call the un­
believers for them to be of the tribes sealed ? I tell
them no: the tribes of the sealed must be those
that are sealed by faith. But know how many that
were sealed in unbelief, have destroyed their seals
already; then how can they be numbered by their
seals ? Now I tell thee, the wisdom of men can ne­
ver explain M y 'B ible, nor ever prove it true, by
any judgment they can draw; for by the judgment
of men, they make My Bible as false as their
judgment made thy words false, that thou spokest
by my command. Now perfectly so was the ac-
- cusation of the Jews, when they came against Me;
they made use of my Words without my meaning;
they said— “ this fellow saith, 1 will destroy the
temple of God, and in three days build it again.”
St, Matthew, xxvitb chapter, 6ist verse. These
are the words and accusations that were brought
against Me, from my saying I would “ destroy the
Tem ple of God,’’ which I meant my own Body,
that I would give up for the power o f men to de­
stroy ; that meaneth, to take my life from M e,
and build it again in three days, which I meant by
rising again the third day in my perfect Body, as jt
was before; though they alluded my meaning to
the Temple of God, to be the buildings o f their
tem ple; so taking my words without my mean­
ing, they condemned M e, as they thought justly.
Now to bring men to know their Bibles, I have'
spoke words to thee, in the Spirit perfectly as I
spoke them in the Body, that ye may weigh one
with the other; to see how it was spoken, and how
it was fulfilled : then they will discern, that from
one S pirit came the whole ; and not from the wis­
dom of man, but from the wisdom of God. And
here my own meaning is in all I have said; and like
My Bible, thy writings are fulfilled^ and so I now
D
ig
itize
db
yCjOO^lC llHVC
have tried the unbelieving world, at the time that I
had fijced for them j and then gave a strict com­
mand, their sealing should go no further. And now
my strict command is, as I have told thee already,
he that wisheth to be sealed, without having a true
faith that thy visitation is from the Lord, is a thief
and a robber. But now go on to the words, that
the number ofthe chapter must be sealed: the seal­
ing did not stop for believers, neither was it finished
at that time, any more than all my office that l had
to go through, and all that my death was for, was
finished on the cross j for then the destruction o f
the Jews must be finished for ever, and man’s de­
struction, instead of their redemption, must be fi­
nished by my Death and sufferings j and instead o f
bruising Satan’s head, by my heel that was bruised
on the Cross, his power and malice* must be the
greater; and instead of fulfilling the Bible, 1 must
die to destroy it * and my apostles must come after
M e with false doctrine. Now let men look as stricc
into my Bible and point out all the words that are
there, and they will bring more charges against the
Bible, from the judgment that is drawn by man, than
they can bring against thee : for the prophecies I
have spoken to thee are more plain to be under­
stood than my Bible. And now I shall come to the
Second Charge made against thee.
Second Charge: “ She positively declared, that,
in March last the Invasion would take place.” — T o
this charge I shall answer for myself.— It' is a noto­
rious falsehood ; for it is known to all my be­
lievers, perfectly as the communications were
given to me, I put them in print; and what­
ever might be the judgment of others, my
judgment was, an Invasion would never take place
before my awful Trial j as I never could believe,
that if the French were to land and destroy one half
o f the nation, or a great part of them, that ever my
writings would be demanded by my enemies j or
that I could have any awful trial to go through :—
fpr it is mentioned in many places in my writingsj
that I have an awful trial to go through from my.
, enemies,
Digitized by Vj j O O Q I C
6
enemies, by their unbelief. But how could this
take place, if the French came in and destroyed the
land, and myself, and the believers were piescrved
in the midst o f dangets? who then would come
against me ? This to me appears as great a folly, as-
is possible for any to imagine; and a judgment that
was never drawn by me ; and words t' at were never
spoke by me j but I have disputed on the inconsis­
tency of such belief; and as to the French landing,
I am not clear they ever will,|by what I understand
o f my writings; but if they do land, it will b-. sud­
denly and unexpectedly. Now mark the second,
page of theWarning to the W orld, where it is said-
— “ I have already told thee, like a snare it shall
come upon them in a day they little think of, and in
an hour unawares; for as they have said, they want
not the knowledge of the Most High, the know­
ledge of the Most High they shall not h a v e * S o
the second charge laid against me is entirely false ;
for no likeness of the words were ever spike by
me ; and if I was to speak from my own judgment,
1 am more of opinion that the meaning of the
enemies wounding our land, means the keeping on
the burden of the war to wound our substance, dis­
tress the land, and starve the poor, than it means
wounding the land by an invasion; for then tiie
wound might be over; but now I see we are wound­
ed daily. But this is my own judgment not a pro­
phecy i for the prophecy that was given of the Gat
and Dog meant the French and the English. So
every pne is left to draw their judgment as they
like, and I have told you how I have drawn mine j
but I never could understand fronruany of my writ­
ings, that either sword or famine would be in our
land in my days, and therefore it was said— rif I
died at the end of the year 1H04, then ‘hey might
fear to see fatal judgments in the following year. T o
the second charge is without any foundation of
truth; words that I never spoke, nor ever thought.
Here is the answer of the Spirit—
f‘ Now I shall answer thee of the Second Charge
laid against thee, which is known to M b to be as»
Digitized by Google false
7
S'
felse si thou hast affirmed i t ; for I- well know the
thoughts of thy heart: thou hast always judged the
sword would r.evcr happen in the land >
n thv days,
because 1 always told tnce, the things thou; so much
fearcst and dreadest, thou never should see. But
now Jshall answer to the second charge made against
fhee, that is entirely false : and all men will hud, full-
as false is the second change made against the wo­
man now, as the first charge was made for want o f
judgment and understanding, concerning the seal­
ings But the second charge is absolutely false,
without any foundation; and perfectly so I tell thee
o f the woman •
• the hi st charge that was made in che
Fall, were truth and errors blended togeth r, for
want of judgment; for it is true the woman gave it
to the man; and it is true I gave the man the wo­
man; but here Was the error in the Fall of the
M an; he did not cast the blame where he ought to
have done, as the woman did; though he knew
from her the way it came; yet, instead of casting
it as she did, on the serpent, he cast k on his M a ­
ker, which putastopto their happiness at'once—
as I put a stop to the sealing, when I saw in what:
manner the unbelievers went on. But now I shall
comeback to the F a ll; though I put a stop to the
happiness they had in M e, and they were dead ta
the knowledge of their God, and cast obt of Para­
dise, yet I did not make an end to the whole ; for
though I said in the day thou eatest thereof, thou*
shale surely die, yet he did not die a natural death, to-
be no more in this world ; but his life was.prolong­
ed, and the Promise was made to go on, tkl the
Woman's seed should bruise the Serpent’s head.—«
Now I tell thee, perfectly like thy sealing the Pro­
mise stands in the Fait; the first curse was laid up­
on them, yet with that curse the Prom ise was made
to the woman to avenge the serpent; and for his.
curse to be the greatest. But this truth men will;
not allow i but, like the men by,thy sealing, say, the'
whole curse must remain of the Fall upon the hu­
man race o f mankind, never to be removed. So the*
first charge that they laid upon the woman, the de-
! * Digitized by Google ▼ »!
<vil bolds mankind to keep her there forever-; tint’
.to claim the Promise that was made her, they de®y
tits ever being designed to be obtained. Then f
ask mankind, to what purpose was my word given?
For I now .tell all men, full as false as thou sayest
,the second charge is., they have brought against
thee, full as false have men made my W oro in the
Second Promise, made to the woman ; they baffle
away .the .first, and firmly deny the truth of the se-
,cond:: .and now I tell thee and all mankind, lei
them read thy writings through, and my Bible
.through, and I will prove it impossible for all the
-enemies thou hast in the world to prove thy writ­
ings as false as they aie proving my Bible; there­
fore I haye brought them to the standard of theBi-
,ble, t«
> s.ee what men make of their Bibles. Now
concerning the Sealing:: there w s some room for
.thy enemies to speak, that did not understand toy
meaning,; and so there was some .room for Adana
>to find fault, as he did not know the -Devil was -s®
close to him, to make him cast the blame on .his
.Ma k e r , as he was to F.ve to ternpt her to eat
.the fruit .; therefore Satan’s arts that worked in mas
•appeared to him right %so they perished for waTit .of
knowledge, as soon as they had eat the fruit; that
mean.eth, instead of that perfect happiness .they
•wer.e created for; they fell into ievery sorrow and
•misery, ^and their lives were aeon after imbittered
-by Cain and Abel, and no man discerned haw the
Promise went on, and renewed to t‘he woman
through my Bible. But all these promises are
mocked and despised like thy sealing; for they
•wish to stop at the first charge .that was made
against her, and thereby bring in a false accusation
against her .in .the second; which I now prove to
•the world is a thing impossible for any man to do#
without he denieth my Bible* as it is for thy ene­
mies to prove .thou saidst the enemy would land in
March. This is a false accusation against -thee, and
full as false they must make my Bible, if they de»
Ay the P romise made in the Fall: and this I tell
4hce, *hcy are doing. So le t them -cot say the
Digitized by rO O ^ J <charges
9
charges are brought against the woman; for I tell
thee, the charges are brought against their M aker.
The first they have wrested; the second they have
lied; and no more foundation have men, to prove
the Promise shall not be fulfilled, than they have to
prove ihe words that were said of tbeei for both
alike are entirely false.
And now I shall come to the third Charge.
The third Charge, is the prophesying against the
Grain, that the mildew and rust should take the
W heat in the year 1804.
'“ This is a charge brought against her, as he ap-
**ptals to the hditor, and the world at large, whether
“ the late harvest did not rather falsify than establish
** this prediction.” To this charge 1 shall answer for
myself, and say as Samuel said unto Saul, when
Saul slid unto Samuel (1st Book, xvth ch. 14th v.)
he had done all that the Lord had commanded him,
Samuel answered Saul, from whence came the bleat­
ing of the sheep, and the lowing o f the oxen in my
ears ? Just the same I say of the Harvest j if it was
good, from whence came the high prices and great
dearth that is in our land ? And that corn is con­
stantly rising every where, when it is known to the
world at large, we had three remarkable good har­
vests, and heard no complaining o f crops, after the
year 1800, until the year 1804, and then samples of
wheat were sent to me from different places,eaten out
with the mildew and rust,and they wrote me wordthat
it fell on the beans, peas and barley, which was taken
notice of, and the samples were sent to the arch­
deacon Moore, of Exeter ? In all parts o f the king­
dom where my writings have been known, they
have written me word, that the mildew and rust
have been universal; and I read myself in the news
papers, that the harvest proved much worse now
they came to try the corn, than they ever expected ,
for which reason they are allowed to raise the price
o f bread. Then how will man dare to assume or
deny the truth that is so plain before them? Because
they say there were some good crops. Poor, igno­
rant, foolish man!!! I f there had been no good
Digitized by / O O g l C C r O p S >
1°
crops, there must have been almost a famine before
the next harvest, though there was a large quantity
of corn in the land before; for I have be n credit­
ably informed, that some fields of wheat have been
cut down for dung, and others were thought not
worth the reaping. Had this been universal in every
field, this harvest must have produced a famine ;
then all must have allowed it was clean cut off ; so
to prevent a famine there must be some good crops:
But I am sorry to say, it appeareth to me as though
the unbelievers are studying how they can harden
men’s hearts in sin, telling them there are no judg­
ments, while we are surrounded by judgments;
telling them there is no sorrow, while our land is
surrounded with sorrows : and should I speak the
language of my own heart, I should say these men
are as full of lies and aggravation as the devil, to
say the harvest is good, when the corn is risen here
more than double the price it was last year; and by
letters we received from different parts, the rise is
every where the same. Then what provoking
wretches must these lying men be ? to say black is
white, out of aggravation ?
The answer o f the Spirit.
“ Now I shall answer thee. In the heat of thine
anger, thou hast spoken tKy last words, and in the
heat o f M y A nger I shall go on to make them feel
what that they determined not to see. For I now
tell thee, it is by the devil, that is full of aggrava­
tion, lies, and contention, that these men are set
on b y : the charges are not against thee, but against.
M e, as it was not thy words, butM v W ords that
threatened the Harvest} and it was not thy Power,
but it was M y Power, that fulfilled it. But know
1 have set all things for types and shadows; and
for types and shadows the Harvest stands. Now I
shall answer thee of the good Crops : they stand a
type for man; and had there been no Good Crops
in man, they should not have mocked of the Har­
vest, to say it was not bad, because it was not all
cut o ff; but to their sorrows they should have felt
it. Now to prove the truth of my words, I ordain-
B Digitized by C j O O ^ I C C d
11
ed the letters should be sent to thee, of the Rust be­
ing in the Wheat, in- the Barley, in the Peas, and
in the Beans; and I now tell thee, if the Truth was
known), there is not a grain but the rust took some of
every grain that is sown by man for food to eat; but
do you suppose from that, because I said 1 would
send it upon your every grain, that I meant there
should be no grain of the same nature to be pre­
served from the rust and kept from destruction ?—
Then how could I compare the harvest with man ?
Know what I said of the harvest of YVoolland’s
Field, 1 compared it with man, that was full of
unbelief; and that I made the grain like i t ; and
perfectly so I said of this harvest, that if unbelief
abounded in man, and the mist of darkness was be­
fore their eyes, and the rust and canker was in them,
2 would send it in the grain. And now 1 will tell
thee of every grain : wheat is a grain compared to
man; and the generality of mankind throughout
your land is full of unbelief, eaten out as it were
with the canker. Now as I compared this grain to
man, and said I would shew it in the wheat, i must
have no good grain in man at all, if I had shewn no
good wheat at all; for know from the Parables
what Was said;
12
There the mist shall bring the rust upon your every grain,
If men do longer mock and jest the famine next shall
come.”
■ Now I shall answer thee from these words : if I
send the rust to shew the perfect likeness of man in
one part,-that the mist, which was here before their
eyes, prevented them from being good wheat, as I
have compared man to wheat; so I sent it univer­
sally throughout the land in your corn, that they
may see their own likeness: but as I said there is
some good corn in your land, which I mean in man,
I sent some good crops, to shew the likeness of
them; for know I have told thee already, and I now
tell thee again, it is the good crops in men that
will save your land from utter destruction, as the
good crops prevented a famine: but had thy trial
n , come
Digitized by V j O O Q l C
come on by such men as have printed against thee,
they would find the following harvest like the wheat
that was cut down for dung; but as thy trial was
brought forward, and proved by believers only, it'
is they will prevent the fatal judgments of the fa­
mine, as the good corn prevented the famine this
year. Here L have shewn thee of the prophecy;
concerning the harvest; and now I shall bring
men’s observations to the Bible. Know what 1
said in my Gospel, Ye can discern the signs of the
weather, but cannot discern ths signs of the times.'
And now observe from this man;though the dearth
hath shewed you the harvest as foretold, yet he can
observe all the crops where the mildew and rust was
not; but he cannot observe my Bible, where the
scriptures stand that are not yet fulfilled. These
things are all forgotten by such men as he ; he can
be strict in observing every word that he seeth doth
not appear to be perfectly fulfilled in thy writings ;
but he denieth the Scriptures that are plain before
him not fulfilled. These he places another way, to
be fulfilled to a judgment o f his own. But now l
shall come to the purpose with all men ; as thy
writings and my Bible both came from one f o u n ­
t a i n , and I tell thee must end in o n e c u h r e n Y
s t r e a m , therefore I now tell all men’ when they
begin to point out what is not perfectly fulfilled in
thy w r i t i n g s , let them also point out what is
not perfectly fulfilled in m y B ible : and let this
be the answer o f all believers, if a prophecy ns not
of God, without it be fulfilled to the extent of. the
word to every perfection, tell them the Bible must
be the same, fulfilled to the perfect extent of the
word, without any meaning or applications made by
man; for if they will turn the Bible, to say it hath
this, or that meaning,, all thy prophecies they may-
turn the same, by what they cannot prove as ful­
filled, and prove they are o f God by the Truths
they contain. So by the truths of thy prophecies
that are past, no man can deny, but all have been
fulfilledjn part. And now 1 shall call thee backto
the past year: your land allowed the dangers to be
Digitized by O O ^
13
14
great •when it came to March and April, which was
proved by your Parliament, and your fall by sea
was great in the number of ships that were ship­
wrecked. This was one of the prophecies I gave
thee; but did I say, from these dangers that they
hear, or fear, they should prove the utter destruc­
tion of your land? They must answer, No. Now
I shall go further; What sunshine of my counte­
nance, as blessings, did I shew to your land the year
that is past ? Did I gain you any victories in the
■ w
ar ? did I lessen the burden of your land ? did I
bless your harvest with abundance ? Is not your
burden encreased, instead of decreased ? Then
where is the proud boasting of men, that are filling
you up in their own wisdom, blinding the eyes o f
the people, that in seeing they may not see, and in
hearing they may not understand ? Scribes, Phari­
sees, and Hypocrites, that say every word must be
perfectly fulfilled td the destruction of the nation
in one year, to, fulfill the words that they are from
the Lord ; and yet cannot discern what must hap­
pen,. or what must take place to fulfill my Bible—
now I tell thee every charge they have brought
against thee, is like the charge the Jews brought
against me, that if 1 was the Son of God, 1 must
come as a Prince and a King to restore the Crown
to them. The office l had first to go through was
like this wise observer of the harvest, that judged
the words could not be of the Lord without^ the
harvest was totally destroyed; and perfectly so was
the judgment o f the Jews concerning m e, they
could not believe all the miracles 1 wrought could
be of God, unless I had worked miracles to restore
the Crown unto them ; and by a powerful victory,
destroyed all my enemies, and seated myself with
an Earthly C row n w ithout this they would not
believe the words of their prophets were fulfilled in
M e ; but had this been done, the words of the pro-
fhets could not have been true; for how then could
be wounded for their sins, or bruised for their ini­
quities if I had come in this manner at first ?
Jshall nowcome to thefour(handfifth charge, and
Digitized by Google
♦ explain the whole together.— — The fourth Charge.
— I come now to Joanna’s late awful Trial, so
long foretold the unbelieving Clergy would be com­
pelled to be present, and acknowledge the mission
o f this wonderful woman.”-1
-----The fifth Charge.
— “ She frequently said, the Lord had made it
known to her, she should not live to see the end o f
the year.’* T o these charges I answer for myselfj
as to the fourth Charge it never was said in my writ­
ings, that the unbelieving Clergy would be com­
pelled to come forward ; but it is said in my writ­
ings, they will compel me to come forward, when
they are provoked to anger and to jealousy ; but
at what time, or in what year it was never made
know to me j for in all my writings that were seal­
ed up, it is said, that it would be sudden and un­
expected ; which I can plainly prove and shew to
the world; but as to my trial, (it being the calling
o f the Lord) it was said, November should not end
in 1804, before my trial was called forward, and
every truth cleared u p , and perfectly so, the Truth
hath followed this last year : and the Book of mv
Trial is since gone out into the world, with the
names of the witnesses, the name of the attorney,
perfectly like a trial; more than ever I expected.
M y trial went through in the very month that was
mentioned, so that every Truth was laid before
them at that time, therefore the fourth Charge is
entirely false, and the words of my prophecies aie
perfectly t r u e ; for if you observe in the nth page
of the Warning to the World, it does not say that
my writings would be proved by unbelievers ; but
on the contrary. From the ninth month, it is said,
“ the ending of this year will come, to make my
“ cho'sen call aloud, and prove the Truth they’ve
“ seen and heard.;’ But could this propheev be
verified, if the unbelieving clergy had come for­
ward this year, to prove my writings ? Then it
could not have been the chosen men, to prove they
had known and seen the Truth, for it must have been
the unbelieving clergy: now the . believers have
Confessed they have seen the shadows of all that
* Digitized by Google w-s
13
16' :
was foretold m the past year, and by that faith they
all passed their judgment, they believed the visita­
tion to be from the Lord, without seeing any won-
derous working to bring on my death ; which must
have taken placejf the unbelieving clergy had come
forward : then they might have teared what would
follow their presumptuous unbelief; but this pre­
sumption my believers ail feared; and when the
communication was carried to them, they could not
see my trance without my death following, and if
there were any unbelievers, they should speak,
that wished to be convinced by the trance; but'there
were none ; for they all were afraid of the presump­
tion of such unbel ef, and weie convinced from
what they had seen and heard b e fo re s o the truth
of the prophecy was verified in them. And the
fourth charge is entirely false about the unbelieving
clergy: for my prophecies could by no means come
true, if this had taken place last year. Mark the
13th page in tha Warning to the World, and see the
explanation from Mr. Foley’s letter, which was
perfectly fulfilled at m v T r ia l ; for my fears were
alarmed that nothing but my trance would convince
either believers or unbelievers; which made me
fear, and in my prayer was for the trance ; till I
was. reproved; saying— in praying for my trance,
J prayed jor my death; which made me cease till
the communication was given me which I deliver-
\ ed to my friends and believers then assembled, and
while my heart was thus in jeopardy, as it was be­
fore, concerning Mr, Foley’s letter*, knowing if
unbelievers were there, my death must follow or
my prophecies were false; and while I stood thus
in confusion and waiting their answer, every man
in the room held up his hand as a true believer*,
they wanted no further proof to convince them; here
are the words verified in the 13th page : wheu
■ *yourfears are most alarmed, and thou beginnest
most to fear, in that very day and hour, thou art
ready to sink, like the letter that was ready to drop?
itV the post thy deliverance wiU. come, and thy
friends-
*
•SeeTrial,1
1page91. >O
gl6
friends and believers will rejoice. Now; here was
the perfect Truth verified too, as not understand­
ing myself the perfect meaning of my trial, my
pwn faith failed me concerning my trance ; trem­
bling and faintness seized me, and my prayer was
made known unto a ll; but in the day and hour
that I went to them with a confused mind and
heart, not knowing what event would follow, or
what their unbelief would be; but I was set at li­
berty by the uplifted hand of every friend, per­
fectly as I was before set at liberty of my fears con­
cerning Mr. Foley’s illness, when Mr. Turner re­
turned with his letter from the post. So the sha­
dow an ! substance proved perfectly alike to me.—
But this could not have been fulfilled, if every thing
had been told me in a straight line. And now I
shall come to the fifth charge. I never said to any
one that I should die in 1804; or that I was ever
told I should; but perfect as the words were given
me, I read to them all—“ I do not tell thee, thou
shah live to see the end of the year 1804.” But it
was neversaid to me— uhoushalt not see the-end of
1804, And now I shall come to the particulars in
179a. The visitation of the Lord had so deeply
affected me, that I made my will, and thought
I should die, I then was answered— “ 1 will add to
“ thy days fifteen years .• and have been told since,
that those days should not be shortened, unless I
began to pray for my death, as Hezekiah prayed
for life. For the sake of my friends I wished to live
till every thing is made clear to them; but when I
began to pray for my trance, at the ending of 1804,
then l was answered— “ I knew not what I was
praying for; for in praying for my trance, I pray­
ed for my death j which stopped me in an instant,
as 1 did not wish to die, unless they had been filled
with unbelief. But knowing it was said,— '“ I do
not tell thee thou wilt live to see the end of the year”
put me in jeopardy> not knowing what their faith
would b e; and had unbelief been in any o f them,
I should have wished for my death, and prayed for
it i but their faith.prevcnted me. Now o f all the
Digitized by G oo Charjges
Charges that have been laid against me, no man can
justify himself in any but the first, to have any
grounds to bring forward a shadow of falsehood
against me, or against the spirit that directs me ;
but in the first, I gr.mt a man that will study to
make scruples and find fault, he might speak from
the Sealing, as it was put out in such a manner, to
say that believers, unbelievers, and children might
be sealed till the end of 1^03, and then to stop; of
which they might scruple, and say that the mean­
ing of it must be to stop the whole, the believers as
well as the unbelievers ; for I confess I did not un-
dei stand it myself, before it was explained. But
in all the other charges, are entirely false accusa­
tions, without any grounds for what they have
said. If people wiil assert the lies of the public,
they may insert ten thousand that people- have af­
firmed they heard me say, that never entered my
head nor heart; therefore, let no man assert what I
say from hearsay, unless they can prove it in my
writings; if they do, I shall publish them for liars,
as I have Garrett; who hath published from hear­
says, or from his own invention, the most notorious
lies that ever could be thought o f : for I may say
he is filled with lying wonders, without any founda­
tion at all. Thus far I have answered for myself*
The answer of the Spirit.— Now, Joanna, I shall
answer thee from the judgment thou hast drawn:,
four accusations thou sayest are entirely false, as
there is no ground for any truth in them; but thou
allowest of the first charge there is room for dispute.
Now mark what I told, thee of the first, and how I
compared it with the creation, and how I gave it
up to man ; and allowed there was room for dis­
pute, whether the woman was made for his good or
hurt. This charge; like thee, I •submitted to.—
But now I shall come to the other charges, which
thou sayest are four false accusations against thee ;
and I say the satfte .*
' for who can prove the harvest
good, unless they will prove it by the price ? And
this thou knowest they cannot do; then how can
they prove that accusation true ? So here is a charge
^ Digitized by Google &lsc
18
• 19 :
• - •• : '
false against thee: and by the truth thou hast proved
all the others false the same,, in the Warning to thfe
World. I warn all men to read that book, deeply.1
*
that meantth> to look deep into the book, and weigh
it with thy life, with the year that is past;, what
deep visitations,- what sickness, what anguish of
spirit, what agonies of heart thou suffered the year
that is past. And know what is said in the. 14th
page, “ thy fears must come first,; and the'land
must first boast; but thy fears shall vanish, and the
land shall fear.” Now let them mark; deep, the
events of the past year and the boasting o fyour land,
and what thou wentest through while the mockery
of men went on with 'their boasting, as though they
had nothing to fear ;• and now thou sccst. they are
going on the same; mocking in the midst of every
danger; without discerning how this year began-™
by heightening your war, the loss of your ships, and
a heavier burden coming upon the nation to support
your war; besides the dearth of provisions,’and yout
land being alarmed by the wise and learned, fearing
the disorders of other nations may fall .into yours.
Now let all these fears, these tvpes.and .shadows of
the beginning, be: deeply observed, an^ weighed
with the Warning to the World, .and they will
soon observe every charge they have brought against
thee is false ; for know I told thee thy fears should
vanish; but the fears o f the nation, should encrease.:
So every charge they have brought against thee, l
shall turn back upon their heads. And now I tell'
thee, these are four charges that I have against
mankind : know in the first place the charge that
was given unto Noah, which they mocked, till they
were destroyed by the deluge ; and the same charge-
,
I have now against the world; they have heard o f
the destructions abroad ; they see the burden rising
upon their land at home; and yet the teacher* o f
the people* are hardening their-dock through unbe­
lief; prophesying smooth things, and prophesying
deceit; blinding their eyes, that in seeing they may
not see, and in hearing they may not understand.-™
This is a charge I have against the shepherds of the
C land:
land: they are deluding the people like the antide-
luvian world of old. Another charge is, that o f
Sodom and Gomorrah, when they charged Lot for
a fool; and though they were struck with blindness
when tl*e angels came to visit Lot, yet they still
hardened their hearts, till the Rre came down to de­
stroy them} and the same charge ! now bring against
the shepherds; for seeing the judgments that are
past, and seeing what lies before them, hearing the
threatening} pronounced, and yet they go on to
harden their hearts, to turn the people out of the
way, saying, let the HolyOnb of Israel cease from
before us ; we want not the knowledge of the Most
H igh. So as the unbelief of the world of old brought
their charges against Noah, till it fell back upon
their own heads, and the same by Sodom and Go­
m o r rah , that brought their charges against Lot,
and all turned back upon their own heads; so these
charges they have brought against thee 1 shall turn
back upon their own heads; so these charges they
have brought -against thee I shall turn back upon
the shepherds’ heads, when I demand the sheep at
their hands. ■ And now this charge do I give to the
shepherds to prove the truth of their words, by
bringing peace and plenty into their land, and feed
the bowels lofthe starving poor; or my charges will
come heavy against them; and my judgments muse
be great in chc land, if they starve the poor in the
midst of plenty: then now that plenty I charge
them to shew, and let the prices be like the former
years; or let them know the curse pronounced
against them, for oppression to the poor. So if they
affirm their words to be true, that there is- a plenty
in your land, they must allow my judgments just to
bring a curse upon the land : and they are pulling
my judgments down. So if they bring charges
against my word, and deny my judgments, I shall
bring my charges against their cruelty.* and let them'
know, he that sheweth no mercy shall find judgment
' without mercy; so out of their own mouths they
are condemned, and have brought the whole back.
oh themselves. And now I shall come to the third
20
Digitized by Google charge
, 21
charge, which is that of Nineveh : I charged Jonah
to warn Nineveh, and Nineveh repented at the
warning : and ^now what is said in myGospel, N i­
neveh should rise up in judgment against this ge­
neration, and Nineveh repented without seeing the
judgments in any manner fulfilled ; but this genera­
tion is hardened in the midst ofjudgments surround­
ing them abroad and at home. They have heard
the fate of other nations, how they have been cut off
by the hand of death, swept away with the besom
ofdestruction : the complaint o f the famine and the
plague in Spain, and the fatal destruction in your
own port; yet for all thesejudgments the shepherds
are but hardening the sheep, telling them they have
nothing to fear'— but I tell them they have all to
fear; for I ask them, in what are these nations worse
than your own, if you will starve the poor in the
midst of plenty: and know what I said in ray Gos­
pel of Dives and Lazarus : and have ye not made
yourselves like Dives; by your cruelty to the poor?
Out o f your own mouths are ye condemned. So here
are the charges brought against you. And now from
my Gospel I shall proceed; think, not that these
Galileans were sinners above all Galileans, because
they have suffered these things ; I tell you nay;
but unless they repent they shall all likewise pe­
rish : for if ye declare your sins like Sodom, and
hide them nor, woe unto your souls 1 And now I
tell thee, and tell all men, if the latter harvest with
the three former have been blessed in your land, and
your barns have been filled with increase, while you
starve the poor by dearth, it is not the sins com­
mitted in your port, ror the sins committed by the
Spaniards, are greater than the sins o f your own
land ; therefore the charges that are in my Gospel,
what I said of Nineveh, Sodom and Gomorrah,
what I said of Tyre and Sidon, what I said con­
cerning the Galileans, are now charges against the
shepherds o f Lngland. So here is the third charge
from my Bible, that was first brought against my
prophets, and turned back upon their own heads.-
And now I shall come to the fourth charge, which
Digitized by Google the
the jews brought against M h ; and after my death
against my disciples, till they brought upon them-
‘ selves their own destruction ; their city destroyed,
and themselves vagabonds, scattered through their
unbelief. This is another charge that I shall turn
back upon the shepherds; that they do not see these
things that befel the others as a caution to thenv, that
they may not copy after and perish likewise. Now
mark, these four charges were first brought against
the people of God; that meaneth, those that were
visited by M y W o r d : Noah and Lot were first
charged for fools, but the charge fell back on those
that condemned them. But thou-sayest in thy
heart, the people of Nineveh did not.condemn Jo­
nah for a fool. N o: I tell thee, there is the charge
that stands in my Bible to condemn this generation;
and mark this is the fourth charge, though it is
mentioned the fifth, they have brought against thee.
From these two charges, the fourth and fifth, the
fourth arc the words turned, the clergy being com­
pelled, instead of thy compelling them; and the
last charge is saying for a certainty what was said up­
on uncertainty; “ for had the unbelievers been
€
k present, thy life must have ended s*’ therefore like
Nineveh, it stood on conditions, and on conditions
now stands the whole—
i
22
For evevy charge js bronghton thee— .
These Four Charges let them see,'
There is no Truth in either one ;
And so to Noaji they must come.—
T h ey brought their charges then the same,
Until My anger they’d inflam’d,
i say, for to destroy the whole—
See how the charges back did fall f
.And know to Lot ’twas just the same,
T he charges first against him came,
Until the fire came from on high,
Burnt up the flames that in them fey, *
3>irf the Third Charge must come from ME,
T h e way I warn’d of Nineveh,
Flow they in judgment should appear
Against the generation here.
Now mark the charge how it is coroe,
Thou know'est the words are turn’d by man;
Because compeird thou'knowest, I say,
T he shepherds they would come this way
For to compel thee to appear
Before that i have ended here.
But now the words are turn’d by man ;
Should I compel the shepherds’ hands?
T h a t’s not according to your law ;
And to my gospel none will go
T o do the things that I command r
Then in compulsion can I stand
T o say, that I’Mcompel a man
For to act right, that’s acting wrong?
N o ; this compulsion’s not in ME i
I f so, mankind is never free
T o say he acts by love or will,
I f he doth act as I compel,
W ithout a choice that’s o f his ewrn f
Then from compulsion, ’tmust be known*
I might as well compel your land,
In my commands they all should stand,.
A s to compel my shepherds here*
They in my gospel must appeas
Digitized by Google
And do the things that I command,
As faithful shepherd* make them stand*
No; this compulsion’s not in M e :
If it were so, you all might say,
Why do I not compel the whole
That by M r Power, none might fall ?
But here compulsion I shall end*
As i ne’er said nor e’er intend
To bring compulsion uivo men,
To say the T i ini thev should stand.
No ; Tis by L ove I do invite ;
And those that wont my offers slight,
I make them workers here with me ;
But know my labourers mu*t be F r e e ,
For to be Labourers with the L O R D ;
My chosen men wirh one accord
Lave acted according to my word.—
Now mark thy death, how he alludes,
To say, I told thee, thou should'st die.
Thou hast penn'd the word that I did say,
And from that word I ’ll now appear ;
Hew could Xe’er alarm t'liy fears,
Or cause that feeling in thy breast,
Orcould’st thou fear of being east,
If I’d assured thee before,
Tlmu'dst live to see the fifteenth year,
Before thy life I ’d rake away ?
Thy faith would keep thee till that day,
No death would come to thee before,
And by thy faith, thou couldjst not fear;
Then how my words could they be true?
Weigh every one before thy view—
I said thy fears they would alarm.
As from the letter all discern ;
And as the shadow came at first,
They-see the substance came at last,
let Hirst and Turner call to mind
How thou didst begin to fear .
Before the letter be did find,
I plac'd the shadow there ;
And now the same. I say to man.
When they did all "appear,
They saw what trembling in thee came
Before I rais'd thee there ; ,
And thou didst fear what would appear,
Thy heart to all unseen
Was known to M e, conceal’d fi;om they
What sunk thee in despair..
Tht trance, like them, thou wish'd to see,
Which made thee ask in prayer;
Then came my word that’s on record
If thou goest on in prayer
To have thy trance, that time be know'd ;
Thy life ends with the year-
1fold thee so, thou well did'st know,
If I thy trance brought on,
Thou would’st not sec the following year 5
T h y death would soon be kn ow n ..
So here confusion fill’d thy breasr,
That was from all conceal'd .
Thou knowest if man with thee did jeit#
The whole must be reveal’d.
W hat I do mean, I ’ll now explain $
Had they to jesting come,
T o pay we’ll speak in unbelief
T o have the trance bt known ;
Then ail would see the end or thee,
A s I did say before,
And this wiihin is known to theej
Thou didst go in faith and fear ;
Confus’d within thy mind .was seen,
And not conceal’d from M s,
T o hear the answer of thy friend—
The type was strong in tl.ee
T hat at the first for thee l plac’d,
And so the end did come:
I know what joy soon fill'd thy breast^
T o see their every hand
Uplifted there, that did appear •
T h y sorrows to dismiss.
And now the mysteries you see dear,
How both alike did hurst ;
But had I said to thee before
That all would happen so;
M y other words could not appear,
T o prove that they were true ;
Nor could thy friends so fear’d tiie end,
Had I not .said before*
That they might mourn If thou’rt gone,
T o see the famine near.
So now discern how 1 do warn.
T o stop presumptuous men,
That they may fear the every storm.
And let their reason come;
So reason here may strong appear,,
I f men would bur discern
T he Prophecies of the last year, 1
W hat shadows ro thee came ;
For on thee first I said should burst
The deadly wound to fed,
Ere on your nation it was Cast,
That I should never heal
T he gnief in them, when it did corm^
I f they still (mock'd nay sword.
Now from thy sickness must be kn®W
J»
W bat grief on thee was Jaid;
Sickness and sorrow and distress
Did in thee strong appear,
And every anguish in thy breast.
Thou surely felt last year*
C all all to mind what thou didst fiul
T o wound thy heart within,
And every fever in thy mind
Unto thy friends was seen,
i t ■ T?
Digitized by Google
There's not a shadow come fo thee
But what your land may fear,
W ill come in substance unto they,
That mock, thy calling here.
M y Spirit .strong now think upon.
That sometimes thou didst feel,
W hat anguish there did then appear,
W hat wounds, that hone could heal,
Appear'd in thee, they all did see—
Then now the whole discern ;
I ask your nation how they’ll flee,
I f all on them I turn ?
Now weigh the whole: see how *t must fall
T said it should turn from thee.
Then now weigh deep this every call,
And mark what I did say,
I f on the land I turn'd my Hand,
I said it should heavier grow
So now the whole you may command,
The way to fear the .blow ;
Because from thee, they all may see
W hat shadows came at sr ;
And mark the words were said before-
On thee it first must burst.
So I ’ll end here, and say no more;
But let them now look deep ;
I f on the land the substance come,
Can they preserve their sheep,
A s I did thee, from misery ?
Now let men try their skill,
W hat strong physicians they will be,
The wounds of all to heal.”
24
High price of Corn by the failure of.the Harvest of 1804, asforetold
in Joanna's Writings, and confirmed in the House of Lords.
«
See part of the Earl of Romney’s Speech,-Friday March 8, 1805,,
in answer to aSpeech of Earl Stanhope, about the dearness of
' Corn,
v “ There wa< one part of the Speech of tfie Noble Lord who spoke last, that
was most extraordinary indeed ; he said that House had just dared to put aims into
the hands of the people, and then, afterwards had dated to attempt their starvation.
Good God ! what had they done? W hen he heard the words, his hair stood an
end! The noble Earl imputes that to their Lordships, which was altogether the
act of Providence, viz. a Wad crop, the effects of which he knew, and lamented as
much as any one. Their Lordships could not controul the seasons, nor make the
com grow in spite of their opposition $ had we obtained a fair crop, he was certain
there, wduld have been no occasion for discontent— that under the guidance o f Pro­
vidence, was the sole cause of the high prices which had taken place in the ne­
cessaries o f life, and it was not fair to impute them to any act of the Legisla­
ture.” See the news-paper called the British Press, March 9,1805.
W hen M r. Pitt*wns 1:.<t in the House o f Commons, after the late harvest of
1804. had began, that r^erise of bread was occasioned by his B ill, HE, to shelter
himself from thisrey oach, shifted the blame to Piovidence, which was too fatally
confirmed by the monthly report of the Society of Agriculture, that the rust and
mildew Had hurt the then harvest; the truth was fpoken even by M r. Pitt, and It
suited his convenience.- " A re these things .true, or not, ye wise men and infi­
dels?,
March, 1805 \
(S E A L E , Printer, 160, lvtt€nham-Court*lloady
Digitized by Google
