{"name":"Life Of Joanna Southcott","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1814__fairburn___life_of_joanna_southcott____9th_ed.pdf","mytitle":"Life Of Joanna Southcott","mylang":"de"}
- „ ' ' 7 /
FAIRBURN’S '
GENUINE EDITION
OF TH E
LIFE
*
OF
JOANNA SOUTHCOTT,
THE - ^
PR O PH ETESS.
NINTH EDITION,
WITH CONSIDERABLE ADDITIONS.
Embellished with a beautifully engraved P or­
trait o f Joanna, and a Quarto Frontispiece
o f the Crib and Canopy, from Accurate
and Original Drawings.
LONDON:
PRINTED and PUBLISHED by JOHN FAIRBURN,
2, Broadway, Ludgate-Hill.
Price One Shilling.
%
Digitized by Google
t,
Digitized by Google
3 o A t m A & f f l c m c o t t
J*2^/tx7tWfar J&fA-.
Digitized by Google
THE
L IF E
JOANNA SOUTHCOTT,
PR O PH ETESS *
Containing an Impartial Account of her wonderful and
astonishing Writings, her
M IRACU LOU S CONCEPTION,
T B S C O M I N G OS
S H I L O H ,
a n d or
The numerous Presents sent to her Preparatory te
H E R ACCOUCHEM ENT,
P A R TIC U LA R LY THE *
Superb Crib ! !
Made by Mr. SEDDON, Aldersgate-Street, which, with
its Ornaments, Decorations, Bedding, fyc. cost up­
wards of Two H undred Pounds !! !
LONDON:
PRINTED and PUBLISHED by JOHN FAIRBURN,
2, Broadway, Ludgate-Hill.
1814.
Digitized by Google
bigitized by Goodie
Digitized by Google
Motto on,the-Him, o f the- Canopy ‘!AFrce-wM offering tjy l&utvto'thf, » /v » » /w 7 Seed '
( '’-'V
iJ
'1' ' '',I
. izsziurroCT
g E E - y m ©]F]F]E3a^f
iXsi-tiy,^nyjU
L
U
JJ'txi
.' si
*/fojj
:-'^8
:::X0'
3V
silty
* ® » s
./■
JO A ETN A S O U T H C O T T .
I f
CorrectYlEWoftlie SUPERB CHIB,presentedtoJOANNA SOUTHCOTT.
___ . • , J_ Digitized by i .
j a .
L I F E
O
F
Joanna Southcott•
JOANNA SOUTHCOTT was bom at Getd-
sham, a small village in Devonshire, in the month
o f April 1750, and was baptized on the 6th o f
June following; as appears by the register o f
Baptisms at the parish-church o f St. Mary Ottery,
in Devonshire. She was the daughter o f William
and Hannah Southcott; her father was in the
farming line, and both her parents were professed
members o f the Established Church. Tradition
is silent as to the circumstance of any “ signs ’*
having attended the introduction o f such an ex­
traordinary personage into'our world; but the
Spirit has since informed her “ that the Angels
rejoiced at her b irth w h ile one o f her Sealed
Doctors has been heard to declare, that the Comet
of 1811 was similar to the star which denoted the
birth-place o f Christ, and also that it was attend­
ed by another Comet, although o f less magnitude,
being both together meant to indicate the perfect
union that subsisted ,between that divine person
and the favoured prophetess.
She speaks o f herself as having been in charac­
ter “ the simplest of all her father’s house,” and,
from her early age, having “ the fear o f the Lord
B
Digitized by Google
4
deeply impressed on her mind and heart.” Joanna,
then delighted in perusing the Scriptures. She
was particularly affected by the account o f the
sufferings o f Christ, feeling her “ heart burn with
indignation against his accusers,” and she thinks
that her growth in grace bore some proportion to
her advancing in years.
Considering the religious bias o f her mind,
even in youth, it is less surprising to find her in­
different to those objects which usually engage
the affections of females. -This cau alone explain
Joanna's treatment o f her chief admirer, Noah
Bishop, who in vam endeavoured to make a suita­
ble impression on her heart. Although they were
reciprocally in love, and she herselfhas recorded
that love, yet, such was the disposition o f her
mind, she constantly rejected him, and seems to
have preferred tire privations o f celibacy to the
consolations o f matrimony. There is certainly an
air o f eccentricity in this. Possibly she ;was not
without some presentiment o f her future rank}
and thus she who expected to become “ the
Lamb’s Bride,” being destined “ to bring the God­
head and the Manhood to a perfect likeness,”
might justly spurn at the proffer o f embraces that
were but mortal.
Joanna opened her commission, tn 1792* and
declared herself to be the woman spoken o f in
the Revelations, that is, “ the Bride, the Lamb's
wife, and the Woman cloathed with the Sun." This
was at Exeter, her friends thought she was going
out o f her m in d h er profession made no small
noise in the city, the people in general were
against her, and she was much persecuted. She
wrote to the Dignitaries o f the Cathedral con­
cerning her Mission, but they would have nothing
to say to her. From 1792 to 1801, Joanna made
several efforts to get her Mission sanctioned by
respectable characters, but without success. In
the .9th page o f the first book, Strange Effects of
Faith,- we read o f six men, that Joanna was to
have together to try their judgement of her.
The Rev. Mr. Pomeroy was likewise applied to,
who, for a considerable time, sanctioned her
Mission. .
In 1801, Joanna printed the five first parts o f
her book, called “ The Strange Effects of Faith,”
this brought down to Exeter, in the Christmas o f
that year, five gentlemen, from different parts of
the kingdom, to enquire into the truth o f her
Mission. Three o f those gentlemen were clergy­
men ; they staid at Exeter seven days, and then
returned perfectly satisfied, that the visitation
was o f God.
On the 12th o f January, 1803, those six gen­
tlemen assembled with a great many more, at a
house in Paddington, in order to take the matter
a second time into consideration. This-meeting
{which, is called Joanna’s second Trial,) was pre­
viously advertised in the newspapers, and those
that disapproved of Joanna as a messenger from
God, were desired to attend and produce their
reasons, However, no one attended but those
that were believers in the Mission. This being
the case, those that were preseut proceeded to
carry on the trial, though no opposer were there.
Accordingly, twelve were selected from the com­
pany to act as judges, and twelve, more to act as
a jury. - /
. In December 1801, another meeting was con­
vened, being previously advertised like the others,
and evpry method taken to excite those who were
against the cause to attend tire meeting; this
was called the Third Trial o f Joanna Southcott.
The Trial lasted seven days, The Court consist­
ed o f 12 Judges, 12 Jurymen, and 24 Elders,
5 * .
Digitized by Google
In the Book called u The Trial’' you read, at the
,80th page, as follows,— “ When the gentlemen en­
tered the room, the clergy entering .first, she felt
her tongue tied, and was not able to speak : and,
as her friends came in, her confusion increased,
and, in her own mind, she thought she should
have fainted away; but, to her great astonish­
ment, when all had entered, though she felt as
it were dying before, she was as a giant Re­
freshed with new wine; without pain, sickness,
or weakness: she stood up, and felt the Spirit o f
the Lord enter within her; to call them all to the
remembrance of the fall: and, when'she told
them o f the promise made to the woman, to
bruise the serpent’s head, every man in the room
held up his hand, to join with ner in claiming the
promise.
The following is extracted from the record o f
the Court after the whole business of the trial
was gone through and completed:—
NecJcinger-House, Bermondsey, near London,
December 11, 1804.
u We, whose names are hereunto subscribed,
being invited, by divine ' command, for seven
days, to the examination o f Joanna Southcott’s
prophecies, do individually and voluntary avow,
by our separate signatures, our firm belief, that
her prophecies and other spiritual communica­
tions emanate wholly and entirely from the Spirit
o f the living Lord.” Book of the Trial, page
183* This is also confirmed by the fifth resolu­
tion, page 79. thus— “ From the examinations o f
Joanna’s writings, it doth appear to us that she
is visited by the Spirit of the living God.”
Amongst the names subscribed, page 136 and
137, are the names of several o f the clergy.
6
* Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
Joanna has visited in her missionary capacity,
Bristol, Leeds, Old Swinford, Stockport, &c. &c.
At Old Swinford she has many adherents; and
at Leeds her followers are very numerous.
Joanna has for some years been stationary in
London, living with an amiable lady, who (much
to her praise) disposes o f her income, in what she
esteems the service of God. Joanna’s cause in
London, has been, for a considerable time, in a
flourishing state. She has a chapel in Duke-
street, St. George’s-fiields, near the Obelisk, where
they have preaching every Sunday, and where
the Liturgy o f the Church pf England is also
read. The service of the chapel is performed by
Mr. Tozer. They have a choir of singers, and
the hymns they sing, were composed from the
writings o f their patroness. They administer in
their chapel the Sacrament of the Lord’s Supper,
the first Sunday in every month, and profess
themselves members o f the 'Church of England.
She has another chapel in White’s Row, ■
Spital-
Fields,' near the church; and three others, one at
Greenwich, one at Twickenham, and another at
Gravesend.
It was customary with the prophetess, during
the early part o f her career, to commit her su­
pernatural communications to paper with her own
hand; but, latterly, she has a secretary in atten­
dance on her. When the Spirit is about to im­
part some communication, Joanna feels an agi­
tation within; then the Prophetess, her secretary,
and the witness, range themselves in one group.
After this, the Spirit begins to speak, addressing
himself not to the witness, nor-the secretary,
but to Joanna within: so that our Prophetess has
simply to sit down and talk to herself! This she
actually does, when the secretary, another fe­
male, takes down what he says, and then the
witness, likewise feminine, signs it. Joanna 'will
7
Digitized by L - o o Q l e
sometimes dictate a line only, sometimes a sen­
tence, stopping till it is perfectly committed to
Writing.
Joanna assumes to usher in the Millenium
and to seal the faithful for the enjoyment o f it,
to the amount o f one hundred and forty-four
thousand ; also to chain down Satan for a thou­
sand years, and, having thus handed over the
good fruit of the tree o f knowlege, and rein­
stated her fallen sex, to terminate the immense un­
dertaking o f man’s redemption. The Sealing is
performed in the following manner: half a sheet
of paper is provided, and on it is written these
•words:—
The Sealed o f the Lord—the Elect, Precious,
Man's Redemption.— To inherit the Tree o f Life
— To be made Heirs of God and Joint Heirs with
Jesus Christ. JOANNA SOUTHCOTT.”
Each o f those seals are signed by Joanna, they
are then folded up, and the impression o f Joanna’s
seal made on the outside in wax. This done,
they are sent to different persons commissioned
by Joanna to dispense the same. When any per­
son is to be sealed, he writes his name on a list
provided for that purpose: this is called signing
for Satan’s destruction, as he thereby signifies his
wish, that Satan may soon be destroyed ; that
is, banished from the earth. When the list is
signed, the person in office, seals up the letter,
writes the person’s name on it that it is for, with
the words, “ not to be broke open,” and then
delivers it into his hands, and the person is then
sealed. The impression that Joanna makes on it, is
with a seal that she found in sweeping her house,
which she was about to leave in the dust, but
took it up, and threw it carelessly in the till o f
her b ox: and when she was ordered, by the
Spirit, to seal up the people, and having no seal
8
Digitized by Google
for the purpose, the Spirit told her, in the Devon­
shire language, she would find one in the skivet
o f her box j so she opened the box, and found
the seal above mentioned, and on looking at it,
found engraved on it I. C. with two stars, the
explanation o f which, she says, was given her by
the Spirit, that is, I. stands for Jesus and Joanna,
the C. for Christ, and the two stars, for the
Morning and Evening Stars, Jesus being the
Morning, and Joanna the Evening, Star.
The origin o f sealing, according to Joanna,
was this: being told by the Spirit o f the dread­
ful judgments that was coming on the earth, and
being much concerned for those that must fall
a prey to the vengeance o f Heayen, she was or­
dered to seal the people up, and unknowingly and
Unconditionally to seal the King, &c.
JOANNA’S PREGNANCY.
: The Spirit calls upon Joanna, and after having '
quoted tne words o f St. John, “ Therefore doth
my father love me, because I lay down my life
that I might take it again.”
“ But now can I take it again without coming
in spirit, as a father to take it in a son. Know
ais a son I' came at first, but as a bridegroom I
said I should come at last; then know as a king
brings in his heir to his crown, by the bride, so
shall I bring in my heir to my kingdom that I
died to redeem. And now let the Jews awake as
men out o f sleep, and let them see their prophets
clear, and let them see their psalms clear, then
they will see, I must first come to have my ene­
mies as spoken in the psalms, and after that to
ascend on high to receive gifts for men; yea,
even for the rebellious Jews, that the Lord God „
might dwell among them. But how is the Lord
9
Digitized by Google
God to dwell Amongst them if I do not create a
sou by the same power, I came amongst them.
And to prove my power, that it is o f God and not
o f man, it must be made known unto all men
whomsoever that read this book o f thiue that no
man hath been in thy presence, or put a foot in
the room where 1 have confined thee, since the time
I ordered thy confinement, which time was October
11, 1813. And thou must let it be ktiown to the
world that thou cans’t say with Agur, ‘ There be
three things which are too wonderful for me, yea,
four which I know not.’ ”
After recording this address of the Spirit, Mrs.
. Southcott proceeds
“ And this I can take a solemn oath to, 1 ne­
ver had knowledge o f man in my life. So that if
the words o f the Spirit are fulfilled in me this
year to have a son, it is by the power o f the Lord
and not o f man ; and this sign is set to prove the
truth o f the Gospel, or to prove that the Gospel
is not true. For this I am answered, if the visi­
tation o f the Lord does not produce a son this
year, then Jesns Christ was not the son o f God,
born in the manner spoken by the Virgin M ary;
but if I have a son this year, then in like man­
ner our Saviour was born.”— “ Let them look to
thy age, and the manner I have confined thee
from any man coming in thy presence, and to
c prevent men’s saying a man might come in wo­
men’s apparel, I have also forbidden all thy fe­
male friends to come into thy presence likewise.”
‘‘ On the 14th o f October, 1813, I was or­
dered to sit up all night in a room by myself,
which I did. Many extraordinary things were
revealed to me, why C hrist took man’s nature
upon him, and what he suffered for man’s sake;
. that 1 should keep that night in everlasting re­
membrance, and not forget the giver o f the
10
Digitized by Google
blessings I enjoyed. About twelve o’clock I
looked at the candle; there appeared something
like a large bowl behind it, with a point towards
the candle; the candle was flaming very bright
and there appeared a ring as red as scarlet, circled
round the middle o f the flame; immediately
there appeared a hand as white as snow, which
came out between the bowl and the candle* and
"pointed towards me: I trembled to see it, but
was answered— “ Fear not ; it is I.” I was
then ordered to put on my glasses, and the hand
appeared the second time, more brilliant than
before; but then the dame o f the candle seemed
parted in two, and looked in a different manner
than the first, but burnt very bright. The band
was pointed towards me the second time, as white
as snow, and a red cuff was upon the wrist.”
Joanna states, in her Fifth Book of Wonders,
as follows:—
“ I have felt life increasing more and more, from,
the sixteenth day o f May to this day; but never
having had a child' in my life, I leave it to the
judgment o f mothers o f children who attend me,
who give their decided opinion, that it is perfect­
ly like a woman that is pregnant. Then now, I
say, it remains to be proved whether my feelings
and their judgment be right or wrong; whether
it is a child or not; which a few months must
decide: or the grave must decide for me; for I
could not live to the end o f this year, with the
increasing growth 1 have felt within so short a
space, without a deliverance.
“ I have assigned my reasons why I believed,
and bad faith to publish to the world that such
an event would take place; and 1 am truly con­
vinced that wondrous events must take place to
fulfil the Scriptures, before men can be brought
to the knowledge o f the Lord, as spoken by the
c
11
Digitized by ( ^ . o o Q l e
n
prophets, or the fulfilment of the Gospel beac-
complished. But, however, men have mocked my
folly and faith in believing what 1 have published;
yet I plainly see that I should be mocked much
more, had'.l concealed it from the world till this
present time; for then there would be room for
the world to mock as to my being a prophetess,
and such an event not to be foretold, to make it
known, that men might believe.”
In the Third and Fourth Books o f Wonders,
Joanna Southcott announced to the world, that
she should have a .So n this year, in the sirtif-
jifth year of her age, by the power o f the Most
High. ,
“ Whatever mockery the announcing o f such an
event may cause amongst mankind, or however
wonderful it may appear, there is the most satis­
factory evidence that it will be realized. This
proof is established upon the testimony o f the
three women, being mothers o f children, who
have all along attended her; and upon their ex­
amination by two medical gentlemen, as to the
symptoms which have taken place in Joanna
Southcott, from the 17th o f March to the 26th
o f May, whose decided opinion thereon is, that, if
such symptoms were in a young woman, she must
be pregnant of a living child"
The following vision is related, by Miss’
Townley, in a letter to the Rev. T. P. Foley,
published in the pamphlet entitled “ Letters and
Communications o f Joanna Southcott.”— Monday
evening, July the 2d, 1804, Joanna tried to
compose herself, after an hard contest with the
devil, when, a$ last, she fell asleep; and
whether awake or asleep,” continues Miss Town-
Jey, “ she does not know,, but she remembers
she was quite awake when she felt the hand o f
the Lord upon her, but in that heavenly and
Digitized by Google
beautiful manner that she felt joy unspeakable
and full o f glory. She felt herself laying as it
were in Heaven, in the hands of the Lord, and
was afraid to move, fearirig she should remove
his heavenly hand, which she felt as perfect as
ever woman felt the hand o f her husband ! ”
“ In this happy manner,” affirms Joanna, “ I fell
asleep; and in my sleep I was surprised with see­
ing a mo6t beautiful and heavenly figure, that
arose from the bed, between Townley and me.
He arose, and turned himself backwards towards
the feet o f the bed, and his head almost reached
the tester o f the bed; but his face was towards
me, which appeared with beauty and majesty,
but pale as death. His hair was a flaxen colour,
all in disorder around his face. His face was
covered with strong perspiration ; and his locks
were wet like the dew of night, as though they
had been taken out of a river. The collar o f his
shirt appeared unbuttoned, and the skin o f his
bosom appeared white as the driven snow. Such
was the beauty of the heavenly figure that ap­
peared before me in a disordered state ; but the
robe be had on was like a surplice, down to his
knees. He put out one of his legs to me, that
was perfectly like mine, no larger; but with
purple spots at the top, as mine are with beating
myself, which Townley, Underwood, and Tay­
lor, are witnesses of. Metbought, in my dream,
HE got himself into that perspiration by being
pressed to sleep between Townley and me. I said
to him, ‘ Are you my dear dyiug Saviour, that is
to come to destroy all the works o f the devil?’
He answered me, ‘ Y e s!’ I thought I called
Underwood, and waked Townley, to look at him,
which they did with wonder and amaze. I then
thought I would go out of my bed,and fall down on
my kuees before him, to return him thanks for his
13
Digitized by Google
mercy and goodness: but, as soon as these thoughts
entered my head, he disappeared, and a woman ap­
peared in his stead, whiph gave mepain to seehe was
gone. But the woman told me many wonderful
things that were coming upon the earth, and
what was coming upon the devil; yet I grieved
at the loss o f my dear Redeemer, for I saw no
beauty in the woman, and, though the woman
would reason strong with me, her reasons I did
not like. In this confusion I awoke, and heard
the bell tolling for the dead, and the drums beat­
ing at the same time; which J remarked to
Townley.”
T H E P R O P H E C I E S
BENT t o t h e
PRINCE REGENT, t h e BISHOPS, &c.
In the 5th Book o f Wonders Joanna states, “ I
was ordered, by the Spirit, to send the book, with
my Portrait, to the Prince Regent, to the Arch-
Bishops o f Canterbury and York, Bishop o f
Worcester, Duke o f Gloucester, Lord Grosve-
nor, Lord Ellenborough, and the Recorder o f
London. I have likewise sent it to the Duke o f
Kent, the Bishop of London, and the Bishop o f
Salisbury. And this has been ordered to be done
to prevent any imposition being practised, either
in my name by others, or, if I am led by a
wrong spirit myself, it will be proved this year,
and that no imposition may be practised upon the
Jews, when I know, without a doubt, that I
am with child. I am ordered to put in public
print, all the names above mentioned, that I have
sent the book and likeness to, that the Hebrews
abroad, as well as those in England, may know
that no deceit was practised upon them; but that
the heads and rulers of the nation were made
acquainted with it before it took place.”
14
Digitized by Google
15
THE COMING OF SHILOH.
Iu the Third Book o f Wonders is announced
“ the come of Shiloh , with a call to the He­
brews.” The Spirit says, p. 4. “ This year, in
the 65th year o f thy age, tnou. shalt have a Son
by the power of the Most High, which if they
receive as their Prophet, Priest, and King, then
I will restore them to their own land, and cast
out the heathens for their sakes, as I cast out
them when they cast out me, by rejecting me as
their Saviour, Prince, and King, for which I
said I was born, but not at that time to establish
my kingdom.” In consequence of this announce­
ment, the followers o f Jo an n a Southcott, in
town and country, are making all sorts of neces­
sary preparations. It is certainly true, that she
has literally been overwhelmed with presents.—
Laced caps, embroidered bibs, and worked robes,
a mohair mantle, which cost .£,150;—an elegant
silver cup and salver, with a lid, on which is
placed a ball representing the globe, upon which is
perched a dove, with an olive branch. Mr. Lowe,
the engraver, of Union-street, Birmingham, was
employed in ornamenting them. —The cup holds
about a quart:—Upon the salver is engraved,
*
■ Hail, Messiah, Prince o f Salem P On the lid
o f the cup is a dove with an olive branch. In­
scription round the rim,—* O f the increase o f his
government, andpeace there shall be no end.' On
a shield on the body— ‘ This present was sent as
a token o f love to the Prince o f Peace, from apart
o f the believers in the divine mission o f Joanna
Southcott, at Birmingham.' Encircled with vine
branches is the figure o f a child destroying a ser­
pent, with the motto— * It shall bruise thy head,
then it is finished.’ On the other side, a shield,
with the inscription— ‘ find who shall receive one,
such little child in my name receiveth me.' In ano­
ther division are three angels, singing praises,.
surrounded by rays, and the words, ‘ Glory to
Digitized by Google
G od! Hallelujah / ’ * Lord God Omnipotent reign-
eth r A pair of goblets accompany the cup, on
one o f which is inscribed—
‘ Then Palaces shall rise;
The joyful Son
Shall finish what his short-lived
Sire began. *
On the other—
< Their vines a shadow to
Their race ■shall yield ;
And the same hand that sow'd
/ # Shall reap the field. 9
Presents to a very large amount have been sent
from various parts of the kingdom :— Splendid
silver pap-spoons and caudle-cups (one shaped
like a dove) have been poured in upon her, till
she has at length determined to receive no more
o f such things. To complete the desired appa­
ratus, a magnificent Crib has just been finished
by one of our first upholsterers, and sent to
her residence, of which a friend has favoured us
with the following particulars:—
THE MANGER AND CRIB.
, A description of the Crib, made by Mr.
Beddon, of Aldersgate-Street, according to the
order of some gentlemen, who are members o f
the Church established by J o a n n a So u t h c o t t ,
for the New Messiah, with whom they believe
she is now pregnant
This Crib, which is made o f an oblong
square, is of the usual size of modern Cribs ; the
frame is made with satin-wood, richly ornament­
ed with gold j the sides and ends filled with lat­
tice-work gilt. The body o f the Crib, which
they call the M a n g e r , is richly lined with blue
satin, drawn together so as to give,it the appear­
ance of fluted-work. The pillars on which It
stands are taper, with ribbons of gold entwining
round them. The head cloth is of blue satin,
with a celestial crown of gold embroidered upon it,
and underneath this appears the word SHILOH,
16
Digitized by Google
in Hebrew characters, richly drawn, and exhibit­
ed in gold spangles. Over the head part of the
Crib appears an elegant canopy o f blue satin
lined with the finest white muslin, which is draw
together to a point, and fastened underneath, or
within side, the canopy, by a rose o f blue satin.
The outer point of the canopy is finished with
the figure o f a Dove o f gold, resting on a small ^
white ball, and bearing a branch o f olive in its
mouth. Around the outer rim o f the canopy is
this inscription, in letters o f g o l d * A free­
will offering by Faith to the promised Seed’ The
curtains are trimmed with narrow gold lace; the
draperies are blue satin edged with gold fringe,
and looped up with gold line and gold tassels.
The inner curtains are o f fine white muslin.
The above is a description o f what they call
the Manger,— besides which they have a Crib, (or
Cot,) which fits within the former, and hangs upon
swivels, that a proper motion may be given to
it whenever the young Prince may require
rocking.
The Crib itself is made with satin wood, fit­
ted in with the most beautiful cane-work, from
which passes a cord of gold to a pedal, which is
designed to . rock the cradle whenever this may
be proper for the infant^ and to prevent the neces- -
sity o f leaning over the manger, which might in­
commode the supernatural babe.
' The bed is o f the finest eider-down, in a
white covering; the Coverlet is o f the richest
white satin, with a medallion in the centre, bear-*
ing the figures o f a Lamb lying down with the
Lion. The Lamb is worked in silver—
-the Liorr
in gold. These are surmounted by a Tree o f
Lire worked in gold also. The sheets for the bed
are made of the best cambric, edged with ex-
p'ensive lace. , •
- • . -
The above superb Crib, with its ornaments,
decorations, bedding, &c. cost upwards of Two
Hundred Pounds! 11
17
Digitized by Google
LETTERS
AND
A D V E R T I S E M E N T S .
The following letter was sent in the year 179&
to a very dignified Clergyman, by Joanna South-
cott. . '
Right Rev. Sir, Exeter.
I trust, from the amiable, worthy, and
good, character I hear of your Lordship, you
will pardon the liberty I am going to \take, in ■
sending you the following lines; the weightiest
subject that ever entered the human brain— such
an instance has never happened .to any human
being since earth’s foundation was placed before ;
the deepest inspired penman, the most learned
divine, nor the deepest philosopher that ever
wrote, ever had such thoughts of divinity or
philosophy, as have been revealed to me by the
Spirit of Revelation ; and what Spirit that is,
must be judged by men.—'Will your Lordship be
astonished, when I tell your Lordship, in 1792
I was foretold all that was coming on the earth?
perfectly as I was foretold, all has happened in
every nation; but the end is not yet.— When the
truth o f my writings began to come, I was en­
couraged strongly in faith, that has been impos­
sible for man to destroy, although their argil-
Digitized by Google
theftts have often shaken my faith, by telling me
it came from the devil ‘ but the answers given
nie to their words, and the Wondrous manner in
which the Bible is explained, truly convinced me
theirjudgment was wrong; and, as throwing oil
into the fire makes the flames burn the greater,
the very way men went to chill my faith, con­
firms the truth o f the Bible and the truth of my
writings, as being foretold how every man I was
ordered to write to would act And who can
tell the heart and thoughts of man, but God
alone?
Now, my Lord, will you be astonished when
I tell you, the end of all things is at hand, and
the powers of darkness must be destroyed from
the face of the earth, by that weak hand that he
first betrayed ? Here your Lordship may be lost
in wonder, how Satan shall fall by a woman’s
hand. Mysterious as it may appear, yet very
clearly it is explained to me, by my perfect
obedience to the commands o f the Lord, who
made the same promise to me, as Herod did to
the damsel; and I was ordered to ask in writing
~-and my petition and request was, If I had
found favour in the sight o f the Lord, that Satan
might be cut off from the face o f the earth, as
John the Baptist was. I was answered, the Lord
will grant my petition, and give me my request;
and, I should seal it up with three seals, and
carry it with me to the altar, when I received the
sacrament—I did ; and was then answered, “ what
I have spoken by my Spirit, sealed with my seal,
I will now seal with my blood.”— But it is said
to me,
19
i( It is man must raise thy hand
And tell thee to grow wise,
Like Ilerod’s damsel to go on,
Then all shall gain the prize
Digitized b
yGoogle
When men begin as she did thenf
And like Heroriias burn,
To wound the foe, m
s she did do,
1 will like IJerod com e/'
20
The man strengthened the woman’s hand
the fall, aud he must strengthen her hand to
bring it back. What God designed at first, he
will accomplish at last. It is not all the powers
o f hell can frustrate the designs nor purposes o f
the Most High. The Lord made the woman to
complete the happiness o f man, and by her it
must be done. For as the sun riseth in the ho­
rizon, and sbineth over the face of the earth, and
then setteth in darkness, and riseth again in the
same place ; and dust returns to dust; and wave
returns to wave with ebbing and flowing ; yet all
centre in the same place—so must man centre at
last, as God placed him at first, in perfect hap­
piness ; and by the woman it must be completed.
Christ died for man’s atonement, and rose again
for our justification. Therefore now give ear, O
heavens 1 and be astonished, O earth ! the Lord
hath a controversy with his people; and the
saints must judge the earth. That day of judg­
ment must take place, when niy writings are
proved ; such writings as never were before since
earth’s foundation stood.
Will your Lordship marvel if I tell you, it rs
a sign to me, why the Lord hath done all things ;
I have written to the R ev.------------- , the Rev.
—---------- , and the R ev.------------- ; but I am
told, the Lord will never permit my writings to
be proved, till I had written to you. If your
Lordship will give me liberty, I will wait on you,
to tell what grounds I have for this faith.
From your, dutiful and humble Servant,
JOANNA SOUTHCOTT.
Digitized by Google
LETTER TO THE NATION,
W ritten by Joanna Soutkeott, which appeared in
the Times Paperi Oct. 28, 1813.
I, J o a n n a S o u t h c o t t , have been more than
twelve years publicly warning the nation of what
the Lord hath revealed unto me he will do upon
the earth; and the events have been daily fulfilling
abroad and at home, which cduses some to believe
the Visitation to be from the Lord ; while others,
with the most infamous abuse and falsehood, have
publicly declared me to be an Impostor; and
others, with the same ignorance and folly, .say
that my Writings are from the Devil, full of blas­
phemy, and wondered that the Bishops should
nave suffered me to go on in this manner. I hare
borne the mockery and abuse o f men; but now
let all their wonder cease; for I shall return to
mock them, as they have mocked me, and prove
it is the devil, in the form of men, from whence
all this malice and persecution proceed.
And now I shall say with David, “ If I have
been vile, I will still be v i l e r a n d if I have
been bold, I will be bolder.—To my other Pro­
phecies I have added two books, lately publish­
ed, intituled," “ Book of Wonders and five
more will appear hereafter, which I defy all the
Bishops in England, the Members of Parliament,
and all the Judges in the land, with all the
judgment they can form together, to be able to
prove these two Books of Wonders, rvith the
other Prophecies, were ever brought round by
the wisdom and knowledge of the Devil, or by
the wisdom and knowledge of an Impostor.
Let. the Bishops come forward with the Rev.
Mr. Pomeroy, and I will soon convince them
that I could as soon make the woijd, as I could
Digitized by Google
make my writings, and bring them round in the
manner they have been brought round to be ful­
filled. I am not so wise as tne world makes me ;
therefore, I shall give unto the Lord the honour
and glory that is due .unto his name? and those
that say they are from the'Devil, I shall turn
their blasphemy upon_ their own heads; because
it is blasphemy to say, that such wisdom, know-?
ledge, and power, can be in the Devil. And I
was answered this morning, that if men went on
in this way, and the Bishops did not awaken, to
prove the calling is from on high, to stop this
blasphemy in men, that awful judgments should
now come on, upon them and upon the nation :
for these are the words said unto me:—
“ I will laugh at their calamity; I will m ock
when their fear cometh : when your fear cometh
as desolation, and your destruction cometh as a
whirlwind : when distress and anguish come upon
you; then shall they call upon m e , but I will
hot answer ; they shall seek me early, but they
shall not find m e: for I have lopked and there
is none to help; and I wondered that there was
none to uphold ; therefore mine own arm brought
salvation unto m e ; and my fury upheld me ; and
I will tread down the people in mine anger, .and
make them drunk in my fury ; I will bring down
their strength to the earth.”
This is the voice of the Lord unto me, from the
scripture Prophecies. — “ The watchmen are
blind ; they are all ignorant; they are all dumb
dogs that cannot bark, sleeping, laying down to
slumber.” —But this is the answer o f the Lord to
me,— “ They shall be visited o f the Lord o f hosts
with thunder and with earthquake, and great
noise, with storms and temppsts, and the flame
of devouring fire. Stay yourselves and wonder,
cry ye out, and cry, they are drunken, but n o t
22
Digitized by
y
Google
with wine; they are staggered, but not with
strong drink. The Lord shall go forth as a
•mighty man; .he shall stir up jealousy as a man
o f war ; be shall cry, yea, roar; he shall prevail
against his enemies.—I have long time holdea
my peace; I harfe been still, and refrained my­
self; now will I cry like a travailing woman: I
will destroy and devour at once.”
Here are the threatenings, that I am now ordered
to bring out to the Nation, of the Scriptures that
the Lord will fulfil, if men now carelessly sheep,
after t h i s w a r n i n g ; but if they awake as men
out o f sleep, and obey the call; then they may
look to the Promises in the following chapters:
Isaiah 1—8, 9, chapter xlvi. chapter lxv. and
chapter lxvi. '
This I am ordered to put in the public papers;
and if I have no one to come forward to plead
my cause for me, the Lord is working a way for
me to plead it myself, and shame all that shamed
me, and confound all that confounded me.
Now as Rowland Hill called my friends three-
and-twenty mad fools, for believing that my Visi­
tation was from the Lord ; let him bring forward
three-and-twenty-mad fools to prove these. Two
Books, which I have lately published, with my
other Prophecies, were ever brought round by
the wisdom o f a woman, or the wisdom o f the
devil; then they must be mad fools indeed, if
they- attempt it; for it has been none but mad
fools that have written a book against me yet, by
Satan’s forming himself in ttyeni; and that their
publications have proved.
23
JOANNA SOUTHCOTT.
O e t.m h , 1813,
Digitized by Google
•24
A WARNING TO THE BISHOPS, v
From Joanna Southcoit, by the Command o f the
Lord; which appeared in the Morning Herald^
November 9th, 1813.
As the Public say that the Bishops will not give
themselves the trouble of searching whether my
Visitation is o f God, or not, the following
answer was given to me by the Spirit:—
“ I f they go on according to the judgment o f
' men, and thou art confined one year in this house,
as a prisoner, through their neglect, then in one
year I will cut them all off, like the three signs I
have mentioned. Know I told' thee I should
begin at the sanctuary.”
The first sign was of the Bishop’s death, in
179^, which was put in the hand of the Rev. Mr.
Pomeroy. The second sign was in 1801 ; as the
Bishop o f Exeter refused to hear of the Visitation,
I was ordered to come to London, and St. Peter’s
bell should toll for the Bishop when I returned to
Exeter again, and this was fulfilled in 1803.
The other was the threatening to the Bishop o f
London, in 1804, as he refused to hearof the Visita­
tion, when applied to. And, as the Lord fulfilled
his word with them, I am answered, that he will
fulfil his word with all, if they do not exert the
power they are invested with. And this I am
strictly commanded to putin the newspaper.
And now I am called back to my former wri­
tings, where it is said, “ One month you’ll see
your destiny, what will befall your land;” so this
month fixes the destiny for the ensuing year, either
for blessings or judgments. If the Bishops keep
. silence till this month o f November is over, then
they may keep silence until next November, 1814.
For I am answered, that now the time is come o f
Digitized by Google
the fulfilment ©f a letter I sent to the Rev. Mr.
Pomeroy, in 1796:— “ Awake, my Shepherds,
saith the Lord, lest 1 kindle a fire in mine anger,
and a wrath in my fury, that shall burn to the
nethermost hell. But if ye awake, O Zion, and
put on your beautiful garments, O Jerusalem,
then shall your light break forth as the morning,
and your righteousness appear as the noon-day
sun; and God, even our God, will give us his
blessing.
These are the promises, these are the threaten-
ings, which I was ordered to send .to him, in
1796; and now I am answered, that the Lord
will fulfil them one way or other, according as
the command is obeyed or disobeyed. The
Bishops are now called upon to judge between
the Shepherd .and the Sheep, from a book lately
published, entitled, “ The Second Book of Won­
ders.”
JOANNA SOUTHCOTT.
25
TO THE PUBLIC AT LARGE.
t
A Letter o f Prophecy, by Joanna Southcott, in­
serted in the Morning Herald.
My former Letters o f Warning have roused
various passions in men, and some public com­
ments. Among the latter I shall notice a letter in
the Stourbridge paper o f the 12th instant, signed
E ph r iam , wnerein he advises me to “ make a
friend o f his Satanic Majesty; as he may lay his
/rightful paw upon m e;” therefore he advises me
to “ court his favour—speak kindly o f him ; for
it is good to have a friend wherever we go.”
« I shall answer him from the words of Solomon,
•
r—
“ A fool's bolt is soon shot; the soul o f the
Digitized by
m .
wicked desireth evil; and wisdom is too high Jor
ufool.” But he who thinks to find a friend in
the devil will find himself deceived. I put no
trust in man ; then I certainly shall not put trust
in the devil, who hath used his utmost endeavours
to work in the hearts of men against m e: and
formed fyimself in men, to cast out floods of lies
against me. I have not built upon such sandy
foundation. Though the world laugh at my
weakness, to believe that the Bishops will give
themselves the trouble o f comi,ng forward and
pass their judgment as required ; I put no more
trust in the Bishops, as men, than I do in their
chariots or horses; but ir.y trust is in the Lord
o f Hosts, who saith to the proud waves o f the
sea— Hitherto shalt thou go, and no further:, who
can say to the south, give up ; and to the north,
keep not back : who can make his people willing,
in the day of his power. This is the f a i t h thab
I rely upon— the r o c k of a g e s , and the God
o f my salvation— that the gates o f hell cannot
prevail against; and this is the f a i t h that our
Saviour said, in his Gospel, was like the wise man,
building his house upon the rock, that the rain
' descended, and the floods came, and the winds
blew and beat upon that house: and it fell n ot;
for it was founded upon the rock: and this is the
R o c k , which I have built upon; and therefore
my house will n otfall; but those who have built,
like this.foolish man, will find their houses to be
built on the sand; and great will be the fall thereof.
This is my answer to the newspaper— to let
them know, that my trust is neither in men nor
devils; but in the Lord, whose knowledge and
peace are past man’s understanding.
And now 1 am ordered to put in the news­
paper a part o f a Prophecy given to me yester*
day, fo r the public at large :—
Digitized by Google
“ 1 tell thee, that the ensuing year will be such
a year as never was seen in England, since it was
R nation ; for, if my commands are obeyed, that
I send blessings to the nation, such as were never
experienced before: yet Satan’s weapons will
be strong, with rage and fury, to fight in men,
till, like Sodom and Gomorrah, they will be
destroyed, and swept away with the besom of
destruction. .But, from the days of N oah, there
is a long warning, to awaken those who are
not so strongly filled with the devil against my
coming to bring in my kingdom o f righteousness
and peace. Thy faith is given to thee as a gift
o f God, which the world can neither give thee,
nor take it from thee: and they will find that the
sound o f thy M aster’s fe e t is behind thee.”—
This is the answer o f the Loan to me.
JOANNA SOUTHCOTT.
Friday, Novi 1,9, 1813.
27
Letters o f Prophecy by Joanna Southcott.
Though the Bishops are silent to the request
made o f them, and the warning given them, that
they will not come forward to support the work,
if it be o f GOD, or to confute it, if not; yet I am
informed that one of the Bishops hath said, that
I have done more mischief than ever an individual
liad done before.
I can scarcely credit the Teport to be true, that
a Bishop should see it in this light, and not use
his authority to stop the “ mischief,” when the
power is put into his hands.
I shall answer such Bishops, as the King’s
Jester once answered him. When a nobleman sent
a petition to his majesty, to crave his pardon for a
£
Digitized by Google
third murder he had committed, the king said to
his jester, “ I know not what to do Concerning
this man: he hath killed two men before, which I
pardoned him for, and now he hath killed the
third.” The jester answered, “ No, he has not
killed three men; he has killed but one.” His
majesty asked him how he could make out that.
The jester said, “ if thou hadst had him hanged
for the first man, he would never have killed ano­
ther ; so thou hast killed the other two. “ Ah i”
said the king, “ dost thou say so ? then he shall
never kill another.”—To this I was answered—
“ Now let the Bishop be as wise as the king,
or out o f his own mouth will I condemn him ; if
he sees this- mischief going on, and doth not stir
to prevent it, when I nave put it in his power, and
he judge it is from the Devil, he will find my anger
kindled against him, if he still lets it go on. Will
they suffer sin o f the blackest dye to go on, and
never stir one step to stop the torrent or this evil?
Then let them know that my judgments are just;
to cut them off, as cumberers o f the ground. I f
all should speak as thou hast heard o f one, .then
out o f their own mouths will I condemn theni a ll:
for they shall find that thou art in perfect obedi­
ence, to my commands. And will they call .this
mischief? Then let them, know my commands,
which stand on record— be clear in judging that
you riiay be just in condemning. And now tp
their consciences thou must appeal, whether they
think it be right to see mischiefspreading through­
out the land, and they standing silent to have it
so, when it is putin their power to prevent it.?
For, on one side or other the sin must be great;
because they must know, if thy visitation ,bg fropi
the Lord, and they call it mischiefin thee to obey
my commands; then’ their sins must be great; for
condemning my love , in warning them o f pay
28
Digitized by Google
coming to establish peaceand righteousness on the
earth.; I f this be despised, let them own. the
justice o f my anger and indignation at the bias?
phemy that is daily spoken against my visitation.
“ And this is my command to the Bishops, if
they wish to find favour in my sight, as I have in*
vested them with power, and commanded thee to
appeal to them, let them exercise that power I
have put in their hands. This is my command to
thee, that thou put my answer in the newspaper,
that they may see the justice o f my threatenings,
i f all be treated with silent contempt.”—This is
the answer of the Lord to me.”
JOANNA SOUTHCOTT.
*9
Mr. Editor,— I notice in your paper o f the
26th instant, an answer to my letter on the 20th,
respecting my faith, by a writer, under the signa*
ture o f ‘‘ A Methodist,” who expresses himself to
be the true Ephraim, wishing for instruction, and
desirous o f knowing whether my pretensions be
a vain boasting o f faith, upheld by applying the
Scriptures to myself, or whether it be grounded
4>n the Rock o f Ages.
These inquiries are just, therefore I shall an*
»wer a wise man according to his wisdom. I
shall first say, as our Saviour did to John the Bap­
tist, when he sent his disciples to knpw if he were
the Christ. He said, go your way and tell John
what things ye have seen and heard ( and in like
manner my answer is to Ephrsjm, that I have ex?
aerienced the truth o f the spirit, which visits me
from the year ninety?two to this day, o f both pri­
vate and public events, concerning this nation and
the surrounding nations; and these prophecies
were first put into the hands o f ministers from
Digitized by G o o Q l e
so
the year 1796 to 1800, for them to be witnessesof
the truth being foretold. In the year 1801, I pub­
lished to the world at large. Iu 1802, during the
time of peace, I published what was hastening on,
o f the war that hath since taken place. And I
can prove from my writings, how these events
were foretold, when there was no appearance of
them. Therefore I may say with the woman-, o f
Samaria, behold the man that told me all things :
teH me; is not this the Christ, who hath thus tar
fulfilled his words, in the past, and how given me
Strength o f faith to insert* prophecies in the public
papers, o f what shall happen in one year, accord­
ing as men obey or disobey what is required of
them ? I f they cannot judge from the past, they
may judge from what is to come; therefore mine
is no boasting faith, without knowing in whom I
have believed, but a faith fixed on ,the Rock o f
Ages, with strong.and sure ground to rely on, that
no one knoweth o f but myself. The world mast
judge me worse than mad, to insert such things
m the newspapers, if I had not a full assurance
that what the Lord hath said he will fulfil. I
have shewn my faith by my works, and the gates
o f bell cannot prevail against me.
Now I shall notice another observation made
by “ A Methodist,” where he says— Would to
heaven that myself.and my brethren were invested
with the authority o f the Bishops; and wewOUkl
soon search out the truth.” To this I am answer­
ed—
t( Let him try his brethren, and he will find
them like David’s brethren, to condemn the pride
o f his heart; and like Ephraim, the pride o f
Israel to testify to his face : for they do toot return
to the Lord their God, nor seek him for all this :
therefore, if he puts his trust in man, he will soon
bfecome like Ephraim, a silly dove without a
Digitized by L s O O Q i e
heart; if lie doth not put hi$ trust in the Lord,
and say with David, there is cause enough, (for
he knoweth not what man is,) his brethren, like
strangers, will devour his strength ; therefore no
trust can be put in man. But, if he be the true
Ephraim, he will now apply himself to wisdom,
and get understanding, and see that it is time to
sow to yourselves in righteousness, to reap in
mercy: break up your fallow ground, for it it
time to seek the Lord, till he come and rain
righteousness upon you ; then 1 will not return to
destroy Ephraim, for 1 am God, and not man, the
Holy one in the midst o f thee.”
Inis is a prophecy given me for the. true Eph­
raim, who wishes to be clear in judging, before
he condemns.
31
JOANNA SOUTHCOTT.
Tuesday, Nov. 30, 1813.
The following was sent to the Morning Herald,
t>ut the Editor objected to its being inserted.
The following are the words o f the Lord re­
specting the conduct o f the Bishops.
“ Two months thou hast been warning the
Bishops; once by the private letter and book;
to which they were silent ; then I ordered thee
-to warn them in the public newspapers, and gave
them liberty to come to thee; or they might
have- sent to Pomeroy, and ordered him to come
to thee, to convince thee that thy visitation was
wrong, if the language o f his heart was different
from what thou badst been informed o f by m e;
as then to his judgment thou must have given
•up; for this power I put in their hands. But, aa
they have refused either to come to thee, to judge
Digitized by
for theitfselves, or to send for him to decide the
hause; I now tell thee, my appointed time is up;
fend my strict command is now to thee to call
Pomeroy forward, to answer, between God and
his own conscience, whether the words are true
or not, that I told thee concerning him. For, as
he said that the Lord would bring thee into judg-
tnent for injuring his character, he shall know it
is I the Lord who briqgeth him into judgment, to
judge between the wisdom o f man and the wis­
dom of the Lord. Know, he said it was through
the persecution and persuasions o f men that he
was made to destroy the letters which I ordered
thee to put in his hands. Then now let him look
to the words o f the Apostle, l Cor. i. 19.— “ For
it is written, I will destroy the wisdom o f the
wise, and bring to nothing the understanding o f
the prudent. The world by wisdom knoweth not
Goa.” He hath followed the wisdom o f the
world; thou hast.rejected the wisdom of. the
world, to follow on to'know the Lord: then
know it is written, Ye shall know the Lord, if ye
follow on to know him. And now, by the difc
ferent conduct o f you two, shall the truth o f this
"Scripture be established; to stand or fall. There*
fore my answer must go into the public paper,
that, as the Bishops have Refused to comle for­
ward to be any judges of-m y visitation to thee,
feSit was requiredj so l now forbid then* all front
doming to thee, till thou hast had Pomeroy’s air*
fcwer. For it must how be decided between him
khd 'thee alone; and when thou hast made every
thitog clear before him; then let him pass his
foial judgment. And if he then say it is from
•the devil; then to his judgment thou shalt give
‘up thy cause; and ask his pardon in the public
‘paper, for disgracing his character, if he can
prove that thou art wrong, and that he is right,
32
Digitized by Google
in acting according to the wisdom o f man. But
this cannot be decided by letter: he must appear
in person, and have every thing laid before him*
But he will have none to contend with but thee
only; and thou shalt have none to contend with
but him only, until he hath decided, which is
wrong, and which is right. -
“ And now, I tell thee, it will be fatal for him*
if he now refuses to come forward, and judge
for himself—to decide between him and thee: for
in this he is called to judge between God and
man. So that I have laid no heavy burden upon
him, to contend with the great and learned, bet
.fore every thing is made clear before him. — And
now let him call to his remembrance the Eleven
Days, that I said were in store, to stay my heavy
hand; but he must not stay till they are up.
This is. my command to him. Let him hastily
prepare for his journey, as soon as he receives
jthe newspaper,, which .1 have ordered thee to
send to him. As the Bishops have not called
him forward, let him know, I the Lord have
called him, to decide the truth o f the Prophecy,
which I ordered thee to send to the Bishops.”
This warning is given from the Lord to me,
' JOANNA S O U tH C O tt
Wednesday, Dec. 1st, 1813.
i . ;
t•* ;
On Sunday, July 31, 1814, the Rev. Mr.
Tozer asserted, in the pulpit o f Joanna’s chapel,
the following sentence :—
“ Brethren, I am ready to take my sacramen­
tal oath, that no man has seen or spoken to Jo­
anna Southcott, since August, 1813.* — And,
83
Digitized by Google
oti Sunday, August 28, 1814, (the day on which
the whole of Joanna’s Chapels closed, until after
the birth o f the Child,) Mr. Tozer declared,
from the gallery-window o f the Chapel, to an
immense multitude who were assembled outside,
that he expected Joanna would be delivered by
the middle o f October next. And, in his dis­
course in the pulpit, on the same day, he said,
the people would be convinced of the truth o f
their belief, by the extraordinary signs and cir­
cumstance that would accompany and follow the
birth o f the Child;— that the time was approach­
ing when mankind would all be in a perfect state
o f happiness, as they were before the fall;— that
there would be no more occasion for man to
labour, and earn his bread by the sweat o f his
brow ;— but that the time would arrive when
there would be no more wars or blood-shed, that
every man might set peaceably under his own
vine, and under his own fig-tree^ none making
him afraid. *
34
At the conclusion of a book just published,
entitled, “ Prophecies announcing the Birtk o f the
Prince o f Peace, extracted from the W ofks o f
Joanna Southcott, with Remarks thereon made by
herselff she states that the rage and fury o f men
against her, as at the present day, was prophesied
of, as the following passage will prove.
“ The living waters are the living stream,
That like a fountain will come from on high;
But yet the sinners will it all defy ;
And as ’tis flowing, sin will sure abound ;
They'll froth with fury for to hear the sound*—
So with the wicked it will certain be;
They’ll foam, with fury, and the truth you'll see.”
Strange Effects of Faith, 163*
Digitized by Google
How true I have found these words by expe­
rience ! as I am now compelled to flee, not only
from the face of my enemies, but from my friends
likewise, to conceal myself in a place of safety,
where I am not known by any person; and tny
name I am obliged to conceal, to preserve my lire
from malicious and inveterate enemies, who threat­
ened to set the house on fire where I lived, and to
take my life if they by any means could get me in
their power. This my friends have heard them
say, that their determination was to seek my life.
As my enemies mock me, they mock the Scrip­
tures likewise; then what can I expect from such
men, if I fall into their hands ? but this proves the
truth of the following words:
“ It is with Hell thou dost contend,
For he in man doth speak;
' And angels here do now appear,
For they do speak in man,
. And tell thee for to persevere—
Like a good soldier stand.
So both are come the ranks to join,
And I’ll join with my friends:
And Satan’s come to join his own—
Mark well and see the end-.”
S. E . o f FaifX, Continuation, 108.
Were not Satan to speak in men, such blasphemy
would never be spoken, as I am now informed is
spoken against my visitation, against the Scrip­
tures, and against the Gospel; for all are con­
demned together in the same manner. This'
sheweth how infidelity is increasing, and how
Satan' is blinding the eyes o f mankind.
The public newspapers have been, for some
time past, daily filled with the most viru­
lent and malicious abuse, and invented lies
o f various ,kind, which none but the devil
himself could put into the heads or hearts of
men, and cause them to utter them, which
will bring an eternal disgrace on their characters,
35
Digitized by Google
and prove that they tbeirselves are the impostors,
to impose on the minds o f the vulgar and ignorant.
For none but men voi'd o f understanding can
for a moment give credit to such false and infa­
mous reports : every man of common sense must
know that, if there was any truth in their asser­
tions, those respectable gentlemen and ladies
whom they allow have stbod by me from the be­
ginning, would have long ago deserted me, if
there were any truth in the assertions that have
been made in the newspapers.
With respect to those respectable friends, whom
they acknowledge are enabled to make rich pre­
sents for the Prince o f Peace, in honour to the
Lord; this, reason must tell every man, that it
would not be done by respectable friends, if any
o f the assertions made against me were true: ana
therefore wisdom is justified of her children.
The rage of men against me sheweth plainly to
them, as well as to me, that such inveterate ma­
lice and envy must spring from the bottomless
pit; as they have no grounds for the assertions
they hawe made, calling me a mercenary impos­
tor, that I sold the seals for a guinea and twelve
shillings each) Here the inventor discovers him­
self to be the impostor, to impose upon the pub­
lic-such falsehoods. For now I appeal to men o f
sense and reason, whether they judge any impos­
tor that was wicked enough to sell the seals in
that manner, would not have continued the sale, -»
as thousands are now desirous o f having them ;
and if they were purchased at only a shilling
each, the gains would be great. This an impos­
tor might d o ; but I never received any thing
for a seal in my life; neither would 1 for the
world ; and this is well known by all my friends,
who cannot be imposed upon by such wicked in ­
ventions.
And, as to their saying that I resided in Bath,
3G
Digitized by ^ . o o Q l e
but was routed out by the police officers, I never
spent a day or night in Bath in my life. I have
passed through Bath in my way to Bristol, but
never staid any longer than while the coaches
were changed. This is another' lying invention
to fill up their papers with.
They likewise have asserted that I announced
that a miracle was to be performed, by raising a
corpse to life. This, with my ascension to hea­
ven, that was to take place in Bath, are their
own inventions. The working o f miracles I
never pretended to : and were these men to be
called to an account to answer for these assertions,
bow must they appear, when they cannot prove
the truth o f one word in' a thousand that they
have brought forward ! . But, as to myself, I can
justify my conduct in all I have said and done,
if I were called forward before all the bishops and
clergy. Had such men lived in the days o f our
Saviour, they would have been as ready to have
called him a blasphemer, and put him to death,
as they are wishing to put me to death.
Another of these reports I shall answer: -—they
have said that I have had presents to the amount
o f thirty thousand pounds, for the Child that is
to be born, to establish the Jews in their own
land, and that I was going to leave the•country,
taking these presents with me into France. This
judgment they might draw from what they would
do themselves: but I have acted a different w ay;
for, as soon "as I saw the friends, through faith,
began to send in presents, 1 ordered a book to he
made to enter every person’s name, and what
they sent, that if there was a possibility o f my
* being deceived, all persons should have their
i presents returned to them again; and what I have
i received 4 have put out of my own possession;
and others I have requested not to be sent till the
I Child is born.
37
Digitized by Google
Here I leave the world to judge whether I. a m
a mercenary impostor or not; for I have enough
o f my own to support me, the short time I shall
live in this world, if it be possible for me to be
deceived, without robbing my friends, or injuring
them.
JOANNA SOUTHCOTT.
The above taken from Joanna Southcott’s
mouth, by me,
A n n U n d e r w o o d .
September 7th, 1814.
5t
The following is a fac-simile o f Joanna South*
cott’s Seal.
The following ADVERTISEMENT appeared
in the Morning Chronicle o f Thursday, Septem­
ber ]22d, and also in the Courier o f Friday, the 23*/.
Mrs. JOANNA SOUTHCOTT's Accouchement — A large furuishedHO.USE
wanted.— lit consequence of the malicious and false Reports, which have
been so universally circulated, Mrs. SOUTHCOTT, in order to shew that she
is not an impostor, nor that her friends are dupes, has given them directions
lor thus advertising for a spacious and Ready-Furnished HOUSE, to be hired,
lor three iftonths, wherein her Accouchement m&y take place, in the presence
of such competent Witnesses as shall be appointed by proper authority, to
prove her character to the World.
According to applications already made by Mrs. Southcott to the Heads o f
the Church and the State, allowing them to send their Physicians, and her
Invitations to the Bishops to investigate her Cause, and the Permission given
Id die Hebrews, and to others, iu Conjunction with a certain Number of her
own Friends, to be present at the Birth‘ of the Child, a House capable of
accommodating^a large Assembly will be necessary; and, from the Opinion
o f a Medical Gentleman, the time of her confinement is drawing so near,
that it will be necessary to have siich a House provided by Michaelmas.
Proposals and terms for letting a House of the above description must be
brought, personally, between the hours of Ten and Four, to No. 2/ Leicester-^
place, Lelcester-square; No. 1, Prince's Street, Cavendish-square; No. 83,
Great Portjand-street, Portland-place; and No 10, Pollard-row, Bethnal-
green,—No letters will be attended to. , 0^
v T H E E N D . \
Printed by J o h n Broadway, Ludgate-Hill.(
-Google
