{"name":"A Communication To The Reverend Mr P","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1814__southcott___a_communication_to_the_reverend_mr_p.pdf","mytitle":"A Communication To The Reverend Mr P","mylang":"de"}
1 - -• A '• ' ,r •
COMMUNICATION
SE^T IN A LETTER TO
TH E REVEREND MR. P.
i n 1797,
.W ITH AN EXPLANATION THEREON NOW GIVEN.
i • i i " ,
RESPECTING this letter the counsels of the
heart have been made manifest to me; for God hath
revealed, by the Spirit, that the judgment, which
Mr. P. drew from it, hath caused all the discord
between him aud me.
The Spirit searcheth all thing : yea, the deep
things of God. For what man knoweth the
things of a man, save the spirit of man, which
is in him ? Even so the things of God knoweth
no man. Therefore judge nothing before the
time, until the Lord come, who both will bring
to light the hidden things of darkness, and will
make manifest the counsels of the hearts: and
then shall every man have praise of God.” I Cor.
ii. 10. iv. 5.
“ The counsel of the heart is now made
manifest to me, in what manner he judged the
letter, which caused his anger and indigna­
tion,- and which I was quite ignorant of; as 1
A
W. MriCHAMT, Print**,
l«(naXonrt, London. Digitized by Google
viewed the letter in a very different light; and,
therefore, as Solomon saitb, “ all the ways of a
man are elean in his own eyes, but the Lord
weigheth the sp iritsa n d , from this revelation,
it is accounted to me why Mr. P.’s conduct ap­
peared clean in his own eyes, which I have been
at a loss to account for. And both have been
blamed from the letters which passed between us,
and which stand in print; but now I cannot see
how men of wisdom can blame either; for, asI had
never such a thought concerning the letter, as I
am answered he had, that it alluded to a marriage
with any man; but that it only meant threaten-
ings if ne did not faithfully search out the truth,
and that the promises of God were great to him
in spiritual blessings, if he acted faithfully, to
search out the truth; and, as he acted faithfully
till the writings went out in the world; then I
judged that he had done what was required of
him ; but when he fell back through unbelief,
and refused to give up the letters which I had
Cut in his hands, saying he had burnt them; this.
indled anger in me; in the first place, to think
that he had led me on for six years, assuring me
that my writings were not from the devil, and
laughed at those who said they were. Thus, by
his judgments, I was streugthened to go on;
being answered that his judgment should be.
right; and thus I was led on, till my writings
were out in the world, and my name was public*
ly spread abroad, as being visited from tne Lord
by prophecy, from the events that had taken place,
and wnat was hastening on; and as to which I put
myself to great expenses in publishing six thou­
sand pamphlets, and other expenses attending it.
jjfow, after my name was thus gone abroad, for Mr.
P. to change from bis former judgment, to turn,
it another way, aqd disgrace my character, by
2
Digitized by Google
sayiugit Was from the devil, and refused to give
up the prophecies which! had pwtin hid hand's,
that proved the truth.had followed; this kind­
led my auger, and I judged that he had acted
deceitfully with me, which he assigned ho cause
♦for, only to prevent the mockery of the world,
.that mocked him for judging that the prophecies
-were from the Lord, and which 1 thought Would
•have been to his credit, to have pointed out the
troths of those events that had taken place, put
in his hands, which caused him to draw the judg­
ment he .did, and to have said that the frituft
events he must leave to time, and be a siletift
.spectator of what was hastening on ; as he saw,
-from the gentlemen who came to Exeter, that
there were .others who drew the same judgment
as he had done. In this manner I 'judged he
might have cleared himself of the m ockerydf
the world, without -doing me so great tin injury,
by.joining with lfiy enemies, who rose up ifc
tinahce against me; but, as to the lettenput inlfe
bands in 1797, which will be brought forward
in this book, he never mentioned it to me, that
he d»ew<r*uy judgment thereon, neither was it
revealed torn* from whence his anger arose, mMr
furtherrlthau men and devils working upon li»
.heart tp see-things in a wrong light. In 18(94^
when 1 Was at Bristol, I was ordered to point out
.the events I had put in his hands, and require an
answer from him ; but, instead of giviDg any
answer to me, he sent a letter to my friends to set
them against me, if he could have done it,
.and refused to give any answer to the inquiries of
my friends, who were then ordered to write to
him; but be treated all with scorn and contempt.
This conduct in him,, both myself and my friends
were at a loss to account for; yet I was stilbor-
3
Digitized by Google
dined to contend with him, to make him acknow-
|t<ige the truth* if possible; butalltowupiirpol*.
Nevertheless, from a Communication given to rW
e
bat year, that he would be convinced of Ms
errors in the end, which I was ordered to send to
the Bishops; this made me draw my judgment
that he might be hastily convinced ; fcnd therefore
I sent to him again, as I was directed, but finding
nil to no purpose, it threw a jealousy in my mind
nod.heart, why I should be directed to contend
with a man in this manner, while all appeared at
ft dead letter and lost labour. To my panderings
l Was answered, that what kindled his anger so
much against me, from the letter of 1797, which
he drew his judgment from* was that he must
become the Bridegroom ntentioned in that tetttff,
of the threatenings contained therein stood against
him, if lie refused. At this I was shocked and
surprised, to think that he should draw such
judgment from it; but I could no ways blame
ms anger and indignation, if these were hit
thoughts upon the letter. This! might well
kindle' his anger against me, and which I do
*ot marvel at, looking upon my situation at
the time, and ki!s situation, as a gentleman
-having . a family growing up, that he must
disgrace himself and family, by taking one into
his house, who was his inferior, -mocked and
despised by all. Therefore, instead of wonder­
ing at his anger, if this was the judgment he
drew from the letter, I should sooner justify his
anger than condemn it. For I should have dread­
ed such a thing as much as he could-, if I had
judged the letter that way; and should have
thought 1 might as well put my head into the
tire, as to have entered into his family, which I
must expect would hate and despise me. Had
I ever drawn such judgment from the letter, I
’4
Digitized by Google
•J
•should never Nave had courage to haVe gdhe <ta
Ilia house after the (Decease of Mrs. P. neither
should I ever have trouhied hint afterwards with
angry Utters; because it would be putting upon
«ne more thau I could have borne, to follow the
directions that were given me, if I had known
his mind and thoughts on that letter, which >is
now revealed to me was the cause of his anger.
And therefore 1 was ordered to send him in a
letter, last winter, that the Lord would take she
stumbling-block out of his way*; and> now I am
answered, that 1 was the stumbling-block to him,
as he judged the letter in a way it was never
meant; that he might well say my writings wet*
not consistent with a benevolent and merciful
God, if he thought that the Lord threatened
judgments against a man, if he did not entet
into a union against his own wiU. This wal
never the design or the decrees of the Most High,
to. threaten judgments that way: ail that Wli
required of him was, to act ihithfally to his
trust, and bear testimony of the truth that VM
put in his hands. When this was revealed to me
• f the wrong judgment which he had. drawn, I
was ordered to have some of my friends to seethe
letter, and pass their judgment on it; and to let
them know that what was*revealed to me was Mr.
iVs judgment. They said, if he drew that judg> -
tnent, it wholly accounted .for his couddct after*
wards, aad would clear him to the world; as
-no one-could possibly blame him in such a case<.
But as Mr. P. refused to give any answer to -let*
ten sent to him, I wm.ordered to send a friend
to Bodmin to have a personal interview, with him,
to know the truth of what had •been revealed to
me, whether that was his judgment on the letter
or not ;and to convince him that nothing further
was requited of him iq that communication, than
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
«
to acknowledge the truth of its bfeiag put into
his •hands ; and whether he drew the judgment
from it, which I was answered he did. But if
lie refused an answer in person, as he had refuted to
give an answer by letter, then I was ordered to
put this prophecy in print, with what is revealed
to me was his judgment thereon, which was
given to Mr. Hows to shew him.
. Mr. Hows arrived at Bodmin on Saturday, the
86th ofJune, and wentto Mr. P’s house, who recei-
ved him very politely ; but, uponannouncing the
subject of his business, Mr. P. became much agi­
tated ; requested him immediately to desist from
any further remarks; and said that he had long
made up his mind to have nothing to do on the
subject. Mr. Hows,then presented him with my
letter, and requested that he would read i t ; but
he refused to take it, and said, if it was left that
Jie would destroy it. When Mr. Hows found
that he could: not prevail upon Mr. P. to hoar
anything which he had to say, he left the house;
and wrote him a letter stating the object of his
journey, which was to shew him the commanica*
tion given in 1797, and the answer, which is now
given to me was his judgment thereon ; and re­
quested his answer to i t ; that the Spirit had re­
vealed to me that he construed the contents of
that communication into marriage, and that to
lie with himself$ to know the truth of the Spirit
in this was the object of his mission, which was
easily defined, by saying yes or no: for, by this
act, the persecution he complained of would for
ever subside; that there was no intention of fix­
ing anything further to him, than shewing the
accuracy of the visitation; the communication he
had with him, which Mr. P. might have forgotr
ten; and that he should stay at Bodmin till the
Tuesday foUowiiig, walling Mr. Fs-answer. But
Digitized by Google
t
no answer was given, though he sent him a se­
cond letter, saying that his journey to Bodmin
concerned Mr. P. himself. Having no answer to
either, he returned to Exeter, and shewed the
letter to Mrs. Taylor, who perfectly remembered
the communication ; and Mrs. Luscombe recollec­
ted copying it off for Mr. P. After Mr. Hows’s
return, and hearing of Mr. P’s determination, I
was ordered to put that part of the letter in print,
which I was answered he drew his judgment from;
and which was given in answer to his inquiry as
to another communication, given concerning
John the Baptist’s warning of the first coming of
Christ; and he, in like manner, was required to
search into the writings to give the warning of
the second coming; which he said he did not un­
derstand ; neither could I explain i t ; and was
answered in the following manner:—
A copy of the communication which I was
ordered to put in the hands of the Rev. Mr. P.
in 1797, from John iii. 29. “ He that hath the
bride is the bridegroom, but the friend of the
bridegroom, which standeth and heareth him,
rejoicetil greatly.”
4
4 Then simple here do both appear,
The bridegroom and the b r id e ;'-
The man in wedlock doth appear,
Then see the field is wide;>
The woman here doth now appear
Unmarried to your view.
1 ask what bride is here applied,
The single woman too ?
Then to the Lord, it must be know’d,
The bride she roustappear;
To have my Gospel fly abroad,
I fixM my standard there.
So here’s the bride must be applied
A shadow of thereat;
For brides Hi call, and wed you ail,
And all alike possess.
Digitized by Google
*
}9ow from the Ki?g I shall explain,
Or to your Bishops go.
You do ordain another man .
Your office to go through;
When you ate not there, it doth appear,
Anyth?/ ia your stead.
But will yoy say, you bishops are,
Or take it in your head
That you must be as great as be,
His title who intrusts?
Then sure jnpck bishops you may bf, ,
And so mock ail the rest;
But if as men from types begin,
And think yourselves no more;
The bishop he may raise you high,
Abd givf you title? beret
, I^ca^ise as man you humbly com?
' His office to go through,
' And judge nb more than heretofore,
And feifc*him honour due.
Now mark Irore man how this doth 9t«n4,
What shadows do appear;
And now like man 1 will begin, '
And fix my standard there;
*'My bishop call, be it known to all,
That mu t my jo*ric* beer,
: A^d all mv offices go ^yroygh*
' Before f do appear.
*' if fce refuse, 1 now winchoose
Another in his stead;
But he shall see, such destiny
Shall make bis heart to (deed ; .
A Judas he shall be to mb.
If he do me deny ; . . .
His days in;sorrow shall appear,
And tremble for to die*
for now to man once more HI cease?
Suppose your bishop here / . '
Should ask of you for to go through
The office he must bear, ,
And you refuse, and did got choose
This thing to undertake-;
How would your bishop i\ow appear ?
Would not bis anger break, „
When he did come to see the man
He judg'd before his friwtf, ; .
Digitized by Google'
But then the tridl could bet bear,
On whom he did depend ?
lie most be found an empty sound.
And hollow all within;
I ask the bishop how he’d look
On such deceitful men ?
Now Pomeroy here must so appear,
If he do me deny:
For all your sermons 1 do hear,
And Pomeroy sounds for me,
To be my friend, in what hc’th pena’d :
Then now I’ll try the man, ‘
And I shall prove him in the end*
To reason I’ll begin:
His conscience here must now appear
* Tojudge thy written hand,
And see if he can now be clear
The way I have chosen the man* .
Dost thou deceive, will he believe ?
Then let him stay two years;
The blood of all from thoe shall fall;
I'd surely free thee here. .
So from this day, mark what I say,
When Pomeroy thou dost see,
Tell him thou’st done what he commands,
But none will followthee; ,
That’s not to hear, and now be'dear;
Then he must take in hand,
And like a bishop be to me,
And let him understand,
Some others choose, if those refuse;
But let him faithful prove,
And shew the letters thou bast sent,
If they refuse my love.
Because my lovetheythere will prove*
To be my chosen men,
Is greater than the heart of man .
Did e’er conceive would come*
lake Channon I to thee may ciy,
Thou dost not understand
The mysteries deep that thou dost write,
Nor know thy written band;
And why ’tis so thou now shalt know ;
Tby senses are too weak,
Tby spirit would too headlong go,
And pnger soon would break,
If thou coidd’st see the mystery,
And every truth discern*
9
Digitized by Google
IQ
Therefore *
ti&wiser heads than tbe* .
Must see how I do warily
That wiii conceal, and not reveal,
Before the time do come,
But only warn the sinners now,
That they roust all return.
For judgments here do now appear,
My strange works are begun ;
Then righteousness must now appear;
And let them see tbe line,
That judgment here doth now appear
Perfect in every line;
Then now the plummet they'll see dear,
The mystery lies behind."
The above letter was sent to tbe Rev. Mr. P.
in 1797, after I bad put into his hands the events
of that year, which would take place at home
and abroad, the truth of which he saw followed;
yet he did not seem offended with the contents of
the letter, but said he would4do all in his power
to get the miriisters to come forward. So I am
clear that he drew no other judgment from it at
first than I did, that the threatenings meant no
further than«ifhe refused to receive the letters of
events, which were put in his hands. This was
tbe judgment I drew of the letter, from what was
spoken of his.preaching so strongly in support of
the Gospel; and therefore he was tried, to see if
he would act according to his preaching, not to
quench the spirit,.or despise prophecies; but to
try all things, and prove all things; and hold fast
that which was good, according to the directions
of the Apostles: and, as he never mentioned to
me any judgment he drew from this letter, I ne­
ver had the least thoughts of his seeing it in the
point of view it is now revealed to me he did;
and therefore I was never more surprised in my
life than I was when it was revealed to me what
judgment he drew of that letter* when he fell
back; which justly accounts to me for all his
Digitized by Google
anger. Blit had he told me of his judgment oh
the letter, I should have been answered then, as
'I am now, that nothing further M
'as required of
him, than to answer to the truth, which was put
into his hands.*
. The A n s w e r o f the S p ix iit . t
. *
* Now I shall answer from thy saying, if,he
had told-thee his thoughts on.the letter, thou
shouldest have been answered theu, as thou art
now; and so the anger might-have ceased, befbne
it was kindled to a flame: and -this might have
been done, if he had told his mind on the subject*
.but as he concealed his thoughts from thee, so I
concealed from thee any judgment that he had
drawn from the letter, before my appointed time
was come, to prove the truth of the letter, and
-the fulfilment.thereof. But in years past .no man
-could draw a clear judgment from the letter; be­
cause they could not see how a mock .marriage
should be required, in the likeness there mention*-
-ed; and now I tell thee, in the perfect likeness
that that letter stood. concealed from all, and
.could not be.made, clear to anyone, to prove a
right judgment could be drawn till now, because
areal marriage cannot be compared to a mock
marriage: and before this visitation .appeared no
man could prove his judgment true, the way to
explain the letter, though his anger was kindled
the way-he drew his judgment* in this perfect
likeness stands my Gospel and the Prophets with
the Jews: for they drew theirjudgment as wrong
as, he drew his, seeing the persecution to my dis­
ciples, and what they went through, judging that
the same destruction must come upon them ; and
seeing no.way that the words of the Prophets could
he fulfilled, ifor their deliverance, at that time, to
' • The friends are requested not to trouble Mr. Pomeroy any
more, either by letter or in any other way* . -j
11
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
IS
heighten t$*eirjoy,but allsethned to heighten their
destruction; and not Understanding the meaning
of my Gospel, how I came to prepare the way for
the end, which waisnot understood by any of my
Disciples, in what manner the comforter should
come, that I spoke of; and as I said of my Disci*
S
les, they would be put to death for my sake;
dis appeared as strange to the Jewq as thy'letter
appeared to him, who saw nothing hut destruc­
tion before him, if he was compelled to enter into
a union with thee: and therefore lie said in his
letter that he could not judge thy writings were
consistent with a benevolent and merciful G od;
as he judged the threatenings stood against him,
if he did not enter into what he judged his ruin.
“ Now perfectly so were the thoughts of the
Jews concerning the Gospel: they knew not what
was before them; if they had been all united to*
gether in faith and belief, at that time, they knew
not in what manner I should have worked their
deliverance, to have conquered their enemies, as
their enemies conquered them, after they had re­
jected mb and my Gospel. Therefore, rhey knew
no more in what manner I should bring round
my Gospel, to fulfil it in the end, than Pomeroy
knew in what manner that prophecy would be
brought found, to be fulfilled in the end; which
Could not be fulfilled by any judgment be drew,
or by any judgment mankind could draw, from
that prophecy, till now. For this was concealed
from thy knowledge, and from all, what was the
meaning of my saying of a mock marriage, to
place it in the likeness of a king; though thou
sayest, had he told his fears, his jealousies might
have been removed, that no such thing was re­
quired of him; yet, at that time, the meaning
could not have been explained to thee nor to him,
without 1 bad told thee in what manner I meant
to visit thee in the end. But know what I said in
I
Digitized
id by Google
the letter: it Was concealed from thee the know­
ledge of thy written hand; because thy seuses
were too weak, thy spirits too headlong, and
anger would break out too soon,, if thou oouldest
nee the mystery of thy writings: and this would
hare been the case with thee, if 1 had revealed to
thee the sense and meaning of the letter, in what
manner I meant to fulfil it, and at what tiroes
thy faith would have been too weak: thy spirits
are too- hasty to have prophecies fulfilled, when
they are made plain before thee. So there would
have been room for Satan to work fears and jea­
lousies in thee, that a wrong spirit was deceiving
thees therefore I said that this must be concealed,
and not revealed, until the time came of its fulfil­
ment. For there was no warning to he given of
the meaning of this communication, o# it what
maimer it should be fulfilled, till the end; and
"therefore I said,.the mystery lies behind; 1 said
my judgments appeared, my strange works
were begun: and let them look to all nations,
what hath followed since ninety-seven; but the
end is not yet; for stranger works are hastening
on, to bring the righteousness that I said must
appear.
“ Then now let them see the line, in what
manner I have revealed to thee, from the scrip­
tures, from the prophecies I have given to thee,
and the maimer of this visitation; then they may
see the line and tbe plummet plain before them;
for now the mystery is revealed, which hath been
.concealed. So marvel not in thy heart, that T
Ordered thee to pat it ip tire hands of a man
whose anger would break out, from the judgment
he drew, but would conceal that judgment from
thee- because, I toll thee, thou wouidest have
been foiled in giving an 4f18wer to his judgment;
as he thought he saw if clear from this letter,
93
Digitized by Google
wdiicli I ordered thee to put in his hands; and
therefore my answering thee that no threatening
stood against him' on thy account, if he acted
faithfully, to acknowledge the truth of what was
put in his hands, was all that was required of him.
But this would have been no convincing proof to
him, as thou saytst in thy heart, nothing can be
a convincing proof to him now, as he hath fixed
his determination not to hear any thing, nor to
read any thing, to convince him of his errors,
from such determinations.
“ I have answered thee already what destruc­
tion it bringeth upon mankind, and it is to shew
what wrong judgment men draw, how little they
know of the ways of the Lord, and his just de­
crees for them that follow on to know the Lord,
that I have directed thee to such men, as thou
hast been greatly stumbled at in thy own mind,
■and which the end will shew their folly. So tot
him not fix his determination, what he will ’do,
or what he will not do, in a cause so weightyws
this: but let him know, what man appoints, God
disappoints; for my ways are not as man’s ways,
nor my-thobghts as man’s thoughts. .It is these
determinations, that people fix in their own
minds, which leads thousands into errors:.itwas
these determinations in the Jews, not to see -the .
.truth, or to know it, but to try every way ID
conceal it, that brought destruction upon them,
.and hardened their hearts through unbelief. And
so these determinations, in various sects and pat­
ties, determining to theirselves not to be con­
vinced whether they are right or wrong, which
‘lead thousands to go on in errors; and .with these
determinations persecution hath been in all ages
against the word of God: So Jet him trace the
.records of the scriptures through,.and he will
find what these determinations^brought men to;:
14
Digitized by G o o g l e
k brought •destruction upon'the prophets,/and
after that upon their own heads-; it brought on
the persecution in my Gospel, till men were de­
termined to put m e to death, and after that on
my Disciples; as men were determined not to
hear nor listen to reason. And therefore such,
determined minds, in spiritual things, can never
preach the.scriptures aright; because, in con­
demning others, they must condemn theirselVes.
How can a man go. into his pulpit to condemn
the stubbornness of the Jews, who were deter­
mined not to see or believe, because of the pre­
judice they had taken against me and my Dis­
ciples, without condemning* himself? . And as I
was persecuted, so men joiued in the persecution,
and said it was spoken against every, where, and
therefore they would not believe in my Gospel,
who suffered through persecution. Then now
J teU thee and all'mankind-, if a religion is de­
spised, because of persecution, or a person is
despised for being visited from* the Lord; then;
let all men kno^v, it is to support those that were
persecuted that men are called forward to preach,
the Gospel, land to condemn their persecutors.
So, if thy character is disgraced through pert
secution ; let them know, it is from despised.and
disgraced characters that the scriptures are esta­
blished throughout. , * • \ •. : ,1 :> ;>
v.4
. “ Now let them come .to the words of Paul :r--
“ AVerpersuade you, in Christ’s stead, be ye re*
eonciled to h i m a n d so, m my stead, like the
Disciples of old, was my command given to
Pomeroy, with promised blessings, if he.went on
to try the spirit, and prove it, that he might
knqw if it .was of God ; and threatened judg­
ments, if he refused.. But now it must be made
known unto all men,.he did not refuse receiving
$hy letters; he did not refuse passing Jiis.judg^
Ji5
Digitized by Google
most, to assure thee they were aot from the
devil; and when 1 told thee of the sign of the
other ministers, that if they kept silence; then it
should go out by Ms judgment alone; and this
he did not refuse to pass. So that lie fulfilled the
first, according to my. Disciples, who went out
to preach my Gospel, and yet many were stum­
bled in the end, and went back; and so I have
told thee he began, to be stumbled, when he
saw the communication in a different light
to what he saw it at first; and therefore
1 told thee that 1bore with the man, I pitied the
man, knowing what alarmed his fears. But now
as he. hath refused to judge for himself, or to
give an answer to the request I ordered thee to
send, let him not pity Hows for taking so long
a journey to search out the truth, and prove the
spirit, whether it be of God or not, by reveal­
ing to thee the secrets of his heart, and how his
jealousy was alarmed, fearing the threatening*
that stood in that letter were against him, if he
refused to become the Bridegroom. Because this
1 have told thee was the reason that his anger
was kindled, from the letter which I liave now
ordered thee to put in print, for other men to
draw their judgment from; as he refused to give
an answer to any inquiry made of him. But hie
repentance and seeing his error m She end is a
prophecy put in the hands of the Bishops, which
/have told thee m il be fulfilled before this year
hath ax end. So that he can give no answer to
this, for the pieseut; because he knoweth Bot what
a day may bring forth. Peter boasted that he
would sooner die with me, than deny me, but
know how soon he swore by an oath, “ 1 know
not the man;” Paul was going to Damascus, to
have my friends and followers put to death, but
know how toon a change came upon him ; and
16
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
therefore ye cannot tell of things to come, whit
change may be worked in the heart of a man \ ;
a day and hour they little think of. For, as t! '
eyes of the blind by nature were opened by iky
power and my working; so, in like manner,
those that are spiritually olind may have the eyes
of their understanding opened to see the day*
light, when it breaketh in upon them; and there*
fore ye Can draw no judgment of what is to
come, concerning the sign that is placed of his
repentance. But from what I have told thee
caused his anger, if he can come boldly forward
and say, that such a thought never entered his
heart, neither had he ever seen the letter in that
light, to make him dread seeing thy name stand
with his; if he can say from his own conscience,
that all is false, which thou hast been answered
concerning his thoughts; then let him say that
thy writing^are from the devil, as he said it was
the devil that ordered thee to put his name in
print; but if he cannot deny what I have said
concerning the language of his heart and thoughts
the way and manner he judged the letter in the
end; if he cannot deny the truth of my words,
let him no longer say that thy writings are from
the devil. For now the end is come, fo r me /o
try and prove the man; and this is the truth I
require of him to answer, from his own conscience,
whether his fears were not alarmed, in the man­
ner I have told thee ? And if he answers to this
question, it is all I now require of him; for as
thy writings are out in the world, thefe are others
as well as him, to come forward in the priestly
office, and to bear record of what they have seen
and known.
“ But as to the threatenings concerning the
marriage; so far from my threatening any man
for rejecting thy hand in wedlock, I now tell thee
the greatest threatening and the greatest danger
<
pi to any man that wishes to take tby hand with*
*- c
17
Digitized by Google
out his heart being united with it, without seeing
the calling clear, and believing the visitation to
be from on high; and without saying that he
regards the woman who hath run through such
dangers and hazards, and such persecution as
thou hast went through, to follow on to know
the Lord, and to be a clear judge in whom thou
hast believed, that thou canst see thy calling
clear, from the manner all was spoken, and the
way I have worked round to fulfil it; therefore
let no man say that I threatened judgments to
him, or to any man, for rejecting thy hand in
wedlock. But now I tell thee where the threat-
enings stand; as this was aprophecy put in the
hands of a ministet, Jot such a time as thist that,
like the mock bishops and mock marriages, so
in that likeness it must now take place with thee;
and as this,is granted by your laws concerning
them, so it must now be granted concerning thee,
before the C h i l d is born; but after that to be
realized.
“ Here "I have shewn thee plainly in what
planner the prophecy stands, and hpw the threat-
fcningS stand to him, if he refuses to answer the
truth. But tf he answers concerning the prophecy,
that What I have said is true; then no man can
blame him, neither do I ; but i f what I have said
is false; then now I have put it in his power to
convince thy friends that thou art led by a wrong
spirit. As he saith that he pitieth them; then
tiow let him shew his pity and his love to God
and man, that no wrong spirit may come forward
in the name of the Lord; and therefore I told thee
1 should never give him up, till it came to the
iwftil trial in the end : and here the trial stands
awful to him, if he stands to the determination
he told Hows of, to give no answer, whether it
be right or wrong. Because here is an answer
required, which the world cannot judge from, as
they cpuld of the events put in his hands, wtych
• 18
Digitized by Google
'were national prophecies, which proved them­
selves ; but this is a prophecy from his oxen heart
and thoughts, which no man can judge o f but
himself, to answer whether it be true or false.
But thou sayest in thy heart, if it be false, he
must contradict, to prove the truth of his words,
that he said thy writings were from the devil;
but, if he be silent, when this power is put into his
hands, then he must own that he cannot contra­
dict,i/.
*
*So let him not say that he pities thy friends
for being led astray, when I have put it. in his
power to prove it, if it be so; and, let him not
say that he will answer to truth wherever he sees
it, if he now refuses to answer to the truth of
what I have said concerning him. For here I have
made the prophecy plain before all men; and
how the truth may be tried and proved, that the
counsels of the heart are made manifest and
brought to light, by the knowledge and wisdom
of God, who searcheth the heart and trieth the
reins of the children of men, and who inspired
men with wisdom and understanding, which they
theirselves did not discern, and wisdom which
the world admire, but cannot explain : and if
you inquire of them the meaning or the words so
much admired by men, they will tell thee, that
they do not believe it. For now I shall eome to
the “ M e s s ia h ,” written by Pope, which is so
universally admired; but if men believed what
they profess to admire in his “ Messiah,” they
must believe iu my visitation to thee,' both from
the Prophecies and the Son that I have told thee
shall be born this year, to fulfil my Gospel and
the Prophets. Now come to one of his remarks,
and then let the verse follow.”
‘limitations. :
*
* A .Virgin shall conceive-1
-All crime shall
“ cease, &c.
“ Now the Virgin returns, now the kingdom
19
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
so
“ of Saturn returns, now a new progeny is sent
“ down from high heaven. By means of thee,
*
* whatever relics of our crimes remain shall be
“ wiped away, and free the world from perpetual
“ fears. He shall govern the earth in peace, with
*
* the virtues of his father,”—
MESSIAH.
A tacred Eclogve, in wmtitation of Vyrgfft PoUto,
Te Nyippbs of Solyma ! begin the song:
To heav’nly themes sublimer strains belong*
The mossy fountains, and the sylvan shades,
The dreams of Pindus, agd th’ Aopian maids,
Delight no more—O thou my voice inspire
Who touch’d Isaiah’s hallow’d lips with fire!
Rapt into future times, the bard begun:
A V irg in shall conceive, a Vir g in bear a Sow !*
From Jesse’s root behold a branch arise**
Whose sacred flow’r with fragrance fills the skies $
Th’aetherial spirit o’er its leaves shall move*
And on its top descends the mystic Dove*
Ye hea/ns! from high the dewy nectar pour(
And in soft silence shed the kindly show’r !*
The sick and weak the healing plant shall aid,
From storms a shelter, and from heat a shade.4
All crimes shall cease, and ancient fraud shall fails
ReturningJustice lift aloft the scale;5
Peace o’er the world her olive wand extend,
And white-robM Innocence from heav’n descend,
Swift fly the years, and rise th’ expected morn l
Oh spring to light, auspicious Babe ! be born.
See nature hastes her earliest wreaths to bring,
With all the incense of the breathing spring: *
See lofty Lebanon his head advance,
See nodding forests on the mountains dance f 7
See spicy clouds from lowly Sharon rise,
And Carmel's flow’ry top perfume the skies!1
* Isaiah v2.14.—ix. 6, 7. * Chap. xi. 1. 3 Chap. xlv. 8.
+ Chap. uv. A * Chap. ix. 7.
* hath xxv. 1. * Chap. xl. 13. 4 Chap. xxiv. 2*
_Digitized by Google
ftj
Hark! a glad voice the lonely desert cbears;
Prepare the way! a God, a God appears:1
A God, a God ! the vocal hills reply,
The rocks proclaim th’ approaching Deity.
I*o, earth receives him from the bending skies 1
Sink down, ye mountains, and, ye vallies rise;
With heads declin'd, ye cedars, homage pay;
Bd smooth, ye rocks; ye rapid floods give way!
The Saviour comes, by ancient bards foretold:
Hear him, ye deaf, and, all ye blind, behold !
He from thick films shall purge the visual ray,
And on the sightless eye-ball pour the day:
Tis he Unobstructed paths of sound shall clear,
And bid new music cmrm th'unfolding ear:
The dumb shall sing, the lame his crutch forego,
And leap, exulting, like the bounding roe.
No sigh, no murmur, the wide world shall hear,
From ev’ry face he wipes offev'ry tear.*
In adamantine chains shall death be bound,
And Hell's grim tyrant feel tb'eternai wound.3
As the good shepherd tends his fleecy care,
6eeks freshest pasture, and the purest air,
Explores the lost, the wandering sheep directs, *
Sday o’eripes them, end byaight protects, r v
e tenderlambs he palms inJus.arms^ ;
Feeds from his hands, and in his bosom warns
Thus shall mankind his guardian care engage,,
The promis'd Father of the future age, *
No more shall nation against nation rise,
Nor ardent warriors meet with hateful eyes,
Nor fields with gleaming 6teel becover'd o'er,
The brazen trumpets kindle rage no more;
But useless lances into scythesshall bend,
And the broad faulchion m a plowsbape end.•
Then palace* shall rise; thejpyfol Soli , ’
Shall finish.whatJits shori-liyd Sire begun; ..
Their vines a sha4ow,to thefr race shall yield,
And the same hand tfiatsowM, shall reap the
The swain in barren deserts with surprise v
•Sees lilies spring, andsudden verdure rise;
And starts amidst the thirsty wilds to bear
New fallsof water murm'ring in the ear. . j;
v Chap. *L3f %Chap. at 3, 4.—Chap. hr. 2&—
Chap,tlifi. 18.
a*Chap.ix*r.5,0. 3 Chap.xxv. 8. 4Cbap.xl. I t 5Chap.Is.6.
•Cbap.II. 4.
Digitized by Google
On rifted rocks, the dragon’s late abodes,
The green reed trembles, and the bulrush nods.*
Waste sandy valleys, once perplex’d with thorn,
The spjry fir and shapely box adorn :
To leafless shrubs the flowVy palms succeed,
And odVous myrtle to the noisome weed.*
The l^mbs with wolves shall graze the verdant mead^
• And boys in flowVy bands the tiger lead ; *
The steer and lion at one crib shall meet,
And harmless serpents lick the pilgrim’s feet.
The smiling infant in his hand shall take
The crested basilisk and speckled snake,
Pleas’d the green lustre of the scales survey,
And with their forky tongue shall innocently play.4
Rise, crown’d with light, imperial Salem, rise!
Exalt thy tow’ry head, and lift thy eyes!f
See a long race thy spacious courts adorn;
See future sons, and daughters yet unborn,
In crowding ranks on every side arise,
Demanding life, impatient for the skies! 5
See barb’rous nations at thy gates attend,
Walk in thy light, and in thy temple bend ; 7
See thy bright altars throng'd with prostrate kings,
And heap’d with products of Sabsean springs!
For tbee Idume’s spicy forests blow,
And seeds of gold in Ophir’s mountains glow.1
See heav’n its sparkling portals wide display,
And break upon thee in a flood of day!
No more the rising sun shall gild the morn,
Nor ev’ning Cynthia fill her silver horn;
But lost, disolv’d in thy superior rays,
One tide of glory, one unclouded blaze
O’erflow thy courts: the Light himself shall shine *
Reveal’d, and God’s eternal day be thine!9
The seas shall waste, the skies in smoke decay,
Rocks fall to dust, and mountains melt away; ‘°
But fix’d bis word, his saving pow'r remains ;
Thy realm for ever lasts, thy own Messiah reigns!
“ And now I shall return to the letter, which
I hare ordered thee to bring forward, and which
no man could understand till now : but as there
are many harsh expressions in the letter, because
my threatenings were severe if he refused to take
■
*
* Chap. xxxv. 1, 7. - * Chap. xli. 19. Chap. lv. 13.
3 Chap. xi.. 6, 7, 8. ♦ Chap. lxv. $5. * Chap. lx. 1 Chap. lx. 4^
7 Chap. xl. 3, 8 Chap. Ix, 6. 9 Chap. lx. 19, 20. Chap. fi. 6. Chap. liv. IQ.
22
Digitized by Google
tby writings in hand, to bring them out to the
iVorld, they may judge those threatenings stand
still against him, without discerning that he went
through all his office at the first; and though I
have tried him every way, by ordering thee to
reprove him, and thy friends also, and, as he com­
plains, wearied him out with letters ; yet know he
liath never acted as a Judas to betray thee in that
letter, which no man could understand till now;
for though he wrote to thy friends that it was a
farago Of sense and npnsense; yet he never
brought forward that communication, to prove
his assertion, as a man of a wicked and malici­
ous heart might have done, to condemn thee,
and confound all thy friends; as no one could
answer to it. But know, I have tried him every"
way, by public letters, and by a private inter­
view; therefore I ordered thee to send Hows,
unto him V but as he did not bring it forward7
against thee, 1 have not ordered thee to bring it,
forward against him, but rather to justify him.;
If he acknowledges the truth of what I have^»
said, then know I told thee that there is nothing
standing against him ; as my will was done in."
him and by him, till the writings went out, for(“
'
others to judge for theirselves and take the cause(
in hand; but no tnan could draw a clear judg-,
roent, to explain that letter of 1797, till now
for what title had I to entrust to any man, to"
raise him high at that time? Neither could .this ■
be done; however high I had raised thee in the,
world, the title Could not come that
but-here, is the title that I have told thee.toforjk
the C o m f o r t e r ’s coming, which .is the P aiacd K
o f P e^ c e , which I have shewn thee, throughout
' tl^.^lBi^p^jhow the C h i l d is spoken of by the*-
'PropIieT^' and how I spoke of him in my Gospel
«**-a Sox to, be revealed in the end, to have power ■
;
■
*4nd great glory. Then know, the title that it
^given to the C h i l d must be entrusted to the
23
Digitized by Google
adopted Father of the Ch ild ; because he is
entrusted to stand in my stead. But now I ask
mankind how any one can prove his judgment,
clear, to say that a marriage is threatened to a
man in this prophecy, to bring him low, when I
have said that it is to raise him high and give
him a title he had not before? Thus none dis-
cerned what they read, to judge that the threaten-
ings were for his danger to disgrace himself and
family, if he came into the mock marriage here
mentioned; and now I tell thee, in like manner,
that thousands may read this letter at first, and
judge it stood as he judged, without observing
what' they read: just so do meu read the scrip­
tures ;ana therefore I said, my peopleperish for want
ofknowledge jand it isfor want of knowledge ofthe
scriptures, the way and manner they must be work­
ed round to be fulfilled, and the strange events that
must take place in the end; before men can prove
the Scriptures true, or prove my Gospel true; it
is for want of this knowledge of men's not seeing
what they read, to understand it aright, th a t'
makes men say all'is finished, because I said it is
finished, when l was on the cross to give up my
life for the transgression of man: for then men
nor devils could go no further; they had gone to
the extent of all their malice, and completely
finished it. But know, I told them 1 should
come again, like the father who made the maN
riage for his son." Here I shall leave the readers
to draw their judgment from this book.
From J o a n n a S o v t h c o t t .
Monday, July Wth, IS 14.
L O N D O N :
Printed by W. Marcrant, Ingram-Court; asd sold by T. Huntl«Y#
Dttke-Strect, Grusvenor-Square; W. Tozeb, CliapelrPlace, Duke*
Street, \Vestminstcr-Road, Southwark; also by the Miss Eveletobi*
Si. Sidwell's, Exeter; S. Hirst, Leeds; W. Warm an, York;
J amps Liout, Coventry-Street, Stourbridge; Edmund Baker, Ilmtli­
ster; C. Bradley, Digbeth, Birmingham; John Nssait, Gravesend f
and T.TuariF, Greenwich.
( Price Sixpence.)
> t
Digitized by Google
24‘
