{"name":"Lives Of Alchemystical Philosophers","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1815__barrett___lives_of_alchemystical_philosophers.pdf","mytitle":"Lives Of Alchemystical Philosophers","mylang":"de"}
LIVES
WITK A
CIUTICAJ;. CATALOGUE OF BOOKS
OCCULT CHEMISTRY,
A SELECTION
OP THE .
MOST CELEBRATED TREATISES
0. t'M TAeory anti Practice
LONDON:
b;r,Macdoeald 111d llolo, Clotb Fair,
f'OK LA.CJQNGTON, ALLEN, & CO. FINSBURY SQUARE. .
1816.
• ·o,9,tizedbyGoogle
,.:lL
f.
_:: ;._ .....
' ; ..
•
·-
. '.
Dig,!lzed by GoogIe
. .•. . ·t . .
\ ..;: ' . .
.. \
... ', ,. t.. ' •
..
. , j · . ;
Tmu.L CAtN, the first artificet in brass and tron..was,
doubt, skilled in the preparatory work of finding_
the mines, ram.
fng the ore, and it. ' The reduction of copPer ore ttl
metal, by several calcinations, and its admixtUre With-c;alamine.
to !Bake brass, is Dc;>t the least difttcult among metal\urgie .
rations. Tubal Cam Is therefOre reputed the first mventor 4
rchemistry, relating to mariufach,n•es. . . .
· 'The univel'$al 'chemistry, bywhichthe seience ofalchemy ope111
'the knowledge of all 1\ature, being founded on ·first principln.
·forms analogy with whatever knowledge is fo'QD.doo on the mme
.first principles. In this.1iew, Moses, d$:ribing .the creatioq.
is an universal chemist, and reveals at the same·t.it!le, the creatioll
·of the philosophers' 'fu this process ;. u The earth wu
..•, without ·furm, and void; ', Darkness wali·on.the·. face·of tJ..
" · ; 8, The spirit of·God ·moved on·the face- of the-W41t81'1';
6' +,God said, Let-there be light, and ·there was light; s,::H.
·" divided the)ight from the darkness.;- 6, ·tie the upPc'
" from the lower waters, by a firmament1 117, He separated US.
6' water from the earth; s, The earth He made
" ·the stars, sun, and moon; 10, The waters brought forth ani·
" mal life ; 11, The earth brought forth life; . a.
:'' made his own image, having oominion all}' · ·
' ·The same alchemic knowlt!dr is ascribed to Sairlt John
· ·Divine, and may be said of al .the inspired writers, 1Vh«t WIN
intimately acquainted'with the wisdom of ·Saint John·de-
scribes the redemption, or the new creation of the ·&llen so.J.
on the same first principles, until the consummation of the work.
in which the Divine tincture transmutes the base metal of tbe
60ul into a perfection that will pus fire of eternity.
The seven churches, or states of regeneration, analogize with
the seven days of the creation, and the seven regimeo.a of the
stone,. the last of which is .gold, tried in the fire.
The revelation of the Divine CheJDistry, by which the fire
of the last day will make a new heaven and a new earth, on
same first principles, is, by analogy, equally descriptive of the
and the prt>cess into which the fallen univel'lle has passed.
is passing, and which at last will assimilate With the philo-
sophic transmutation, that of the earth and ele111e11U, u cieKribed
by Saint John.
o.g,tized by Coogle
INTRODUCTION.
Saint Peter speaks of the first creation, of the earth standing
tJUt qf tlze water, and in tlze water, which earth being overjluwed, .
perished, but is now reserved unto .fire. And St. John describes
the new earth .qf_ clzrystal, .·cities of transparent
gold, stones of .dmlcedb'dy, ·emerald, sardonyx,
sardius, chcysolite, beryi, tJopaz, chry&Oprasus,·jacinth, amethtst;
gates of pearls, and water of life or health. ·
All the wise nature the heathen, have, in
their writings, left traits ot the same.first principles. This pro-
duces reference,· in the writings of the adepts, to the
... Qf, .t\fgona\lta, by
he broa.ght fi·om Egypt,
r:UElmw&.. . whose name .sipi!ies a spiritital
in .I.!J the founder of
l1Jl4 .· f • · • • • . ·;
Alchemy is called 'Hermetic philosophy, from Hermes, the
books, an,d a tablet of alchemy, ·which are the
apd esteemi!d writings OU this sub
.dec
.t llOW
found i,n the Hebiew an.d Arabic in tlt:e
pr '*1 tbe era 40!}, [t:ont, date i& lit.!-
.of the live& ,and of .
· , . ·
of prevents .lligher
.autdti :4Pl:t,:in the books of the Egyp-
of gold apd- peri chumeias argu-
eldu,tai: 700,000 rollB at Ale;xandria;
spq,oW>:o: .at Constantinople, in the.eigh.th cen-
sUJlj$_ ,U,le Mahometans the wofk.
,Ill its p:rhacipol source&. ... ' . ..
\'_·:,;:,;;,'/;> .,-...· :• 1
: • " . . . l :.·: ,'·'
· Su Dzorlqt't#.jiJi!jo•., ckap. 2', if tile and cltcw.
sl$,rrdg.ti'JM Tl'fllef/.fi-ue. . Cle.Jrle:ns. '!/. b_ocik. ·.Act•
e'lf:tke.i.4ppstlq, ,cW; and, wa:. ,22. pre,par. ErJilfJ.
ad in
.ck., '/?•,1. . , . ,:lq ·
· ·- ..• - ' ; ·.l :;. · ' ... ... • ,,
i "' .
•• J · : ' , • • ••
rlj:fl !<\: ..,_ :. .1 •L ·:
.1 : •. li .. ,'-' ·;. :,. . . . .
•f ·; !,.
.• ' ··_·· ·} ., , : ,
..... ':. .. :.• . . ., ,:_
..-
i • . , 'I '
; ; : .. . ·i: • . .: .
r ! ,
. j .
:•· .
\ ,
'n.!
. I
...:
o,g,tized by Coogle
•
t ,.
t
. ·· · t +. t • .
..SXNESt.us,
-.
,·
·, .
:. . ·-rBH9P i1lJ· Pro':LEJIAit).
I) • . ..J . : ' . , }
,"!G ' . :".J. · .' •. f .
.... ...
.THE ¥J?st of tl;le lJ.dC}>ts wa.s Syncsius. ·
JiVed ·in··Cyrenla, one of the prmcip:H cities of Pcnthpolis, in
l.ybia, to the 'west ·of LowerEO'f'pt, and Ms gen<-ttlogy,' wllicli
¥,cen,& t\'1 kings etrSparta, 'is caretully kept
pbbli.c. 6f. thf!:t city. was born there, 'abolJt the yeat'
he· had %r j:Alifosaphy, engaged. hitn in the'cnl-
sc,ience
_s• . · He iJW_
po geometry,.. 1md.astronomy; . and wtth the·
:t!_mst osopfiy .of Plato and; Pyt11agoras:. Hut as Cyre-
! thouahit had and who were
,a!it;Iqluty,.was less acttf than
. _
orttdi men,, _
1Vttere not cultlvatcda
Jf: _him.self, ·he should to .' .
Synemus. caJ;ned mto_ a lol'_
e truth, whtch lui
tn:ade pe_
rfect by the practice of virtue. . hts own cotintry, hOI
bd heard, ·with a.stonishm:ent, th'dt .an fen1ale, named
8?JPatfat. th.e of publk!dy at
to, find m tillS philosophic L'ldy a still greater
he expected, ,he atteiided at ,Jrer nnil 1carhing front
ner of philosophy; he conceived grent an l'Ste<'rri
f:ir thts nobie lady, that he often called her hu; teacher, p:wcht,
Ahd,,henef.'lctor ;· cYcn aftet he <vas raised to the.episcopal dig-
llity, all the work·s he intei1ded to publ-ish, he submitted' to het
• .1- . . '
JUugmcnt. . . · · . . · , · ·
· It \ms ·in tllis great city he forn1ed art ncquainbince with the
learned Egyptians, particularly with Dioscorcs, high priest or
8erapis. _
Syncsius wa5 still a pagai;t..:....it was there he was formed
In tlie liermetic science, and knew 'the treatise of ori.
physical secret. As this trcastis<ds vety obscure, Synesitill ·
some annotations upon it, which he dedicated to this
W.ea{ priest; but tl1ey are tiot \\·ithout th'at _
cabalistic
_which is imposed on !hose who_ the ·secret, by a solemn
t>11-th; and is even extended to the·.mysteries of the platonic phi-
. ... · . . · · ' · _·
-, are. ietter!. of Synesius," on the of alchemy, ad-
pressed to philosophers.' but he does, not express himself.
_clearly, .lest they should f.'lll the hands of or
vulgar. He 'fas so scrupulous, as to reprehcn<l·scvcrely lus friend.
:Jierculcw', than of those
wh1cli lie b6ld to .
o.git.zed by Coogle
..
'·
• of the Adepts.
Not content witl1 the liO'hts he had acquited in tl1e city of
Alexandria, Synesius to see Athens, and know personally
if the Academy, Lyceum, and the · Gallery of Stoics, still
equalled the reputation that Plato, Aristotle, and Zeno, had
procured for them ; but he was much disappointed. This cele•
brated city no_ longer preserved any thing but the names of the
-illustrious assemblies thfit once dignified it. There were artizans
and merchants to be found, ·but none·of the learned, of the
'vise. . ,
_ At his return f'iom this Synesius settled in his native
where letters, the him.
He <;ltd not wear the hab1t of a phdosop'her, accordmg to the
anciept usaO'e_, which was still ptesejved; and he refused
to read, or Y.ave liis works read pubhcly: his birth, and his
mo4esty maoe him superior to these advantages, which were flat·
t<_ering to, the vai1ity of common J?hilosophers. Content with a
trancjuil life, he .relnained free and disengage4 from any occu..
patiqns or cares of the world. He solely endeavoured to pre-
serve his mind in a, perfect ·calm, far frorh every thing that could-
trouble· his repose. It was riot sloth or ·that withheld
him frqm business, for when it became· nece.ssary, he voluntarily
(1 voted himself .to the service of the whoJe city; m the midst of
solitude presei·ving the desire of being useful to his neighbours
and his country; and in the embarrassments of public affairs,
he did Iose his taste for the study of
The beneficent character of zeal for the public servi,ce, that
Syncsius alwaxs preserved, was the cause, that the city of Cyre-
renia, and forir others, deputed him, in 397, to proceed to
.st.antinople, to i:epresent to the Emperor Arcadius the
state of hi's country, and to obtain assistance. He remained
three -years endeavouring to succeed in his mission, which at
feno-tli. he effected by making large presents. ,
, earthquake, in 400,- whieh--.desolated Constantinople,
obliged him to return to his country; illi:_re he £$ave an account
of his ncgociation ;' and aoout__ this time, it is believed he was
paptized. He went again to ·Alexandria, \vhere he married,
.towards the·year 403, and it was the patriarch Theophilus, who
t1te ceremony. .
, lf the cares of a family relaxed his attention to study, it did
11ot diminish the b1:illiancy of his virtues; on the contrary, his
·)'eputation was so great, that the citizens of Ptolemaid, wanting
a bishop, in 410, \vith one accoi·d they fixed upon Synesius to
_
till the vac:mt chair, by which he had jurisdiction, as metropo·
· litan, over the whole province, notwithstanding he was mar·
J"ied. ln v:1in his· election was opposQd; it was necessary to
conccl1e to the wishes of the people and clergy, who were se·
condcd in their desires by Theophilus, Bishop of
J.'rom this time he was obliged to quit his retreat, and enter
into t-hC' multiplicity of tares attending eccletiiastical 'duties.
'
Until aow, Synesiua bad been DlQre a philosopher than a
and wu s.olittle with the superior light of
the Christian dispenaation, that in comparing St. Anthony and
&. AimoDt to Zoroaster and .1\lercury Trismegistea, be thought
)1.e bad done the former great honour. But after the episcopn.}
be joined all the dignity, and the active, vigilant
life of a bishop, to the modesty of sJmple believer; and al··
he bad not been educat.ecl in the church,
lmew how to preserve the faith, against heretics, and puHty of
.-.et'lagainst the fidse Chriitians; ancl all .this with gentleness.
He.even. appijed him»elf .to the conversion ofthe pagan philoso-
;,bers, a work ·more difficult than the transmptatipn of
be· in bringing over his fiil!P4 to the
Christian faith.
He died between the year 416 and 4Sl, as ba -successor,
;Evops.us, JUUDed in the l.ist of the council ..4t. Ephesu..
Three of the letters of Synesius are addressed to his friend
•HeliodorQs, · Bishop of Tricca, in Thesaaly, who born at
Emesus, in Phcenicia ; and who wrote the celebrated romance of
and' Cariclea, and a in verse, on Alchemy,
which is printed by the learned Albert page 789, of .
the 6th vol. of hia Ore$ Bibliotheca. · ·
' See Synesius'1 leUen, 86, and Eccksia&•
· lkal Memoirs, .
RHASIS.
RHABIS, named also Mahommed Ben Zakara, a celebrated
physician arid chemist, was. of the city of Rei, upon tJ!e froiJ...
.tiers of Cor!UIAJl. · '
Although he Wall thirty years of age when he began to stud7
medicine, he SOQQ surpassed all.those of his time, and was pre.
fetred as the most skilfQl physician to charge of the famou•
hospital of llagdad. He in much with Aimansor,
lord of Corasan. He was a skilful philos.opher, a very .excel.,
lent chemist, and had written twelve books upon chemistry; but
few have even supposing all thEl&C to.be hia
which are attnbnted to hlDl. It appears that be the first
:who introduced chenustry into medicine. His woFks sened
form m.Jler Arabian physicians, and even .A,vicenna, whom we
as their chie£ It is said that he at least two
hundred and .twenty treatises upon medicine; yet was poor, and,
lost hia sight ; two facts that have been alleged, .with.injua-
hiS skill in alchemy, or
. died at an advanced age, in the year 932.
&1 Fracii1 Hi#..if Metlki.M. ·
Digitized byGoogle
t Lives (){.:J/Ie\.tfdepts.
f!r, 1 : .. , .f.. ':··.· ; f!<)rd r;-,r ;;rl)[( j;,--·;
'I: . ' ··. . ALtrAfiinr·· .-. ·'· _
J : ·' • .
! ' "\ . . : '' ,. ') . 1 - r. * : ' ' 1 ' • : .,· '- •• '
;.·thi mi<tdle .Qt the made:_ib
.·
:M these celebrate{( men, who. to. Jhe l¥hM.:¥
e?gage. · fhis was Farabi, or 4-lfarahi,, 9n_e..Q(:fP9.$tl!",tlle;lf
.Of who penetrate. .:Ml
did not confine (:o the re;verY, Of
ritomed f1w
. ,e p o .......-dlJile,. L . .. .. . . ·· t
· · 'adventqre ·trw. of
lus and .. 'R-8 .$
pilgr
_ iniage to·M
_ ecca, passing .through. SY.ria, $W:tall
was wit!J :him
lPon the _ . . . . . .; : . _ • ·
· ; Fas:abi_entered sa
.
..loot) l,I'Dere_ $11(} d1d
not sit down till the d.e$ir.eci he, .be at
.which the. ..bYJJ< .n,tlu;r
sat the erid of -?e SuJ.tlf¥15. sopha. The
.pnzed at hui boldness, of hls and
"him, in a not to, pJt wt
·The heard him, and in. the same
.'·'· .t. 4e wh.<>.- 1st !DijecJ w. -
The prmce wa,s less astonished at the rep!,_ .thea b)l Wr
manner, and the energy of action; wishing to know
of him; he began a conference among his in
which Fara6i disputed with.JIP. and vivacity, that
he reduced all the doctors to silence. Then the Sultan ordered
.to ·ll$SCf.Ibl,y';
plulosopher aCCOJI1Pamed them on a lute,. With sa mueq
that he attracted the: eyes, and admiration o£ the
aembly. But. as they. found _
he was a at of
sultoo, he drew a( pocket a piece of his own
Wqn; itwa5 a he sung it,. and accoropanied it
with so much force and spm4 and the company tex>k suf:h
Bllte ia it, that they aH. rejokcd' to an of la!lghte•· The
philosopher, t}len, to shew the extent of Ptlents,"£hanged t•
imothef ·and accompanied it so tenderly.! 4S8Cmbl7
itrere- t9ttch00 by .it, and wept•. · 'ro · he.
measure, and put all the to sleep.
It was in- vnin the sultari, who was struck with of
wislltd 1\im hiS: . Filr:flbi. sctt..
but 11> was to mJsc:rably. He wa& by r.obbers. llf.
the woods of nnd in ·l'pite of his courage, _
was:lcilled,. m
·the-yeatr 954-. .But-his works iipon all the wbil:h. are
great number, in the li-brary of Lcydlm, as well as o11,the
hermetic make him· be :regarded as one oi tlic ·greateat
that ever yet
o1git1zed by Coogle
Lives of the .4depts. .,
MORIEN.
' . .
MonrEN was a Roman, but we are assured that his works we:e
written in the Arabic language, and that he lived under
thetr dominion, in which, very likely, he If the story
which is related of him be true, as it has every appearance of it;
we see the Arabians did not t:'lil to cultivate the practi<'e of al·
chemy in Egypt, of which they were masters. 1
The history of Morien is simple, it is natural, but never-
theless very interesting. This philosopher was in Rome, his na-
tive place, where he studied under the eyes of a father and mo-
ther who tenderly cherished him. He led a peaceful life, formed
in all the duties of Christianity. He heard of Adfar, a famous
.Arabian philosopher of Alexandria_; he even saw some .of his
writings; and he was immediatelyseized with a desire to understand
tlleir meaning. The first impressions of youth carried him away,.
and he abandoned his paternal bouse, and set out for Alexan-
dria. He arrived ·there, and sought with so much industry,.
that he at last .found the house of the philosopher. He made
known to him his name, his country, and his religion; and both
·appeared content and satisfied with each other; Adfar, at hav·
.ing found a young man .whose docility might be depended upon,.
and Morien, at seeing himself under the discipline of a master,.
who promised to unveil to him the source of aiJ treasures. The
of the disciple engaged master to conceal nothing
·from him. · .
The immense treasures of Adfar, his lights and acquirements
in the most secret philosophy, did not hinder his death. After
·Morien had paid the last duties to his deceased master, he quitted .
.Alexandria, not to return to Rome, but to go to Jerusalem.
HoweYer, he only rested there for the time it took him to pur-
·chase a retreat near the city, where he could tranquilly finish a
,Christian life. He settled in this hermitage, with a pupil whom.
he no doubt intended to form for science.
In his retreat, the philosopher heard of the Soldan of.
named Kalid, a wise and curious prince, lieutenant of theCa-
lipb. Th,e book of Adfar had fallen into his ·hands, and he
made a close search, in all places in his territory, for some per-
liOn who was of sufficient skill to explain it. And, as it happens
at this day, many presented themselves, less to work to I;Uly pur•
pose, than to profit by the great property the prince gave to
those who promised him success. .,
Morien, who heard with·pain, how much Knlid was deceived ·
quitted his..retreat, and went to Egypt, as .much endeavour
the conversiOn of the Soldan, as to commumcate the knowledge
of Adfar's book. Upon the promises of Morien, the Soldan
mode him chuse a house, and Morien remained in it, till he
..
o1git1zed by Coogle
Lives of the Jltlept.J.
. • finished his process. The work being brought t:<t its per-
fection, the philosopher wrote upon the vase in which he put
the elixir: " He who has all, .has no want of otbers ;" and
immediately quitted the city, and journeyed safe home to his
·henni(age. · · · ·
At this news, Kalid weJlt to the house in which Morien had
arid fol.md the vase containing the tincture ; but what;
,was his chagrin, on reading the inscription, to fuld that the
llerinit·was not to be found.
Then, from being penetrated with regret at the loss of this
true artist, he was filled with indignation at the alchemists
-who bad promised him all things, but executed nothing; so that
-lie made a_n edict f?r the. capitli.l puni.<\hment of
Then calliDg. Gahp, h1s favou'ttte slave,. " Gabp," says the
'J?l'ince, have we.'to do?" said his
servant, "•t IS good to hope, God make us know the conduct
we-mtght to 'pursue.''
. . Kalid remained ·tome yeQ's in anxieties, till, being in
-chase, ·as 'iisual, accompanied by his ·&ithful slave, Galip found
A.devout hermit, at prayers, in asolitude: " ·Who are you?''
S:Lid Oalip to him: whence came ye, where do.ye
go ?" I am of JeruSalem, the place of my birth," replied
the good hermit ; " and I 'have remained a long time in the
.mountains near to that City, with a nntn. There I ·ha\te heard
,that Kalid was·in pain to kllow how he finish the Mystery
.of Hermes. I know this man is very ·skl1ful in 'that science, and
·I have qUitted my country to inform the prince of it." · · ·
· " Oh ! my brother, what do you say ?" exclaimed Galip ;
-.• It is enough, say rlo more, for I do not wish you should die,
'8i:the impostors have, wh-> presented themselves to my master/'
l fear nothing," said this good man; " If you· can me
to. the prince, I will go before him with confidence." Galip
him ; nnd the hermit_informed Kalid, that he knew
.weU he was.in pain to aceomplish the hermetic work; that he
c:anie to him to tell how he might attain it. That he knew, in the
solitudes of Jerusalem, a sage hermit, who had received ;thi$ su-
from: God. " He than.onee·confessed
It to·me," says he, "that he had thts·preclolis gtft, and I ha'Ve
had the p.roof of it, by the quantity of gold ·and silver which he
bro!lght each ye11r to Jerusalem.
could .not avoid representing to him the danger to which
Jte exposed himself, by making false promises, which.had· caused
the death of many adventurers, .who, to deceive prmces; boast
of knowing that, of which they are totally ignorant. But ··aa
the good· hermit always spoke with the same confidence, without
appl'ehensions of his menaces, Kalid was enkindled with
!Wd upo.n .the description of Morien's he belie\Ted
1t WM. him1 which was c:ontitmed when he· heard his· name. ·
o1git1zed by Coogle
1-l
Upon of the hermit, thttt epgege to.,
find Morien, Kalid Galip to go l,liins.elf with asuffi'--
escort. After 1nany fa,tigues, they arrived at the
Qf Jt;rusalem, -vr.het:e they. found the. venerable Mori_
en, who,:
-qnder a rude live'd in youth, and in the·
austere ·. Galip knew and salllted him
the part of the prince. ·The virtuous herri1it had no difficulty to-
comprehcmd the of this ·. ae offered. freely to ac.:.
company him to Egypt ;-they there. But no sooner h.a4-
the soldan seen :1\:lorien, than tut:ni,ng towards Gttlip, he coU:lSf:.
DOt his aatis(action,: this being lllR-11 he
Ngreted. · Full of joy at hu.ving him again, he wished·
to him
. iri a worldly .Bu.i Morien had ·other-.
He sought only the cqnversion of the prince, and the·
prince sought.only ricl1es.
Itl3.de knqwn all the truths of Christianity, but he was
abl<: to touch the Soldan's heart. The prince, con.tent with.
the source of hill). seck a house suitable ,
t«? JNgh he had for h.iiD; and many .
in the pious philosopher spul;lded the soldan'!! heurt,
nptwif:h&tanding, discovered to him at l}lt he ha<t .
with so much ardoQ.r. · · · · .
We are ignorant whp.t bcciiine of MoriCI); .bnt hi$ history
his conversations have been written, boip by himself, and by ·.
Galip, the faithful slave of Kalid. Kalid has likewise left some
little works upon this sQhjec!:, which are printed in the collec-
tions of Hennetic Philosophy. '
and who appeared, one at the beginning, and
the.other at the er,d of the age, have cited Morien as
a·w:riter, authorised among Qle Hermetic Philosophers; and
Robertus Castrensis us, that he translated Morien.'s book'
illt9 Lath), frorq the Arabic the year ll82. ·
; · :. : . . . ' .., .. .
AVICENNA,
CHoRASA1J produced another adept 'at the end of
the tenth century, Ebn Sina, that -
is to say, Avicenna was born t
·at Bacara, the principal city of that province of Persia, towards
the year 980; he made great in the mathematics, and by
his uncommon aptn.ess and fa.cihty of genius, .even in the most
sublime philosophy. He was only sixteen when he passed from
the preparatory sciences to that of medicine, in which he sue-
with :, and it is his sagacity w:as so
great m the knowledge of dJ.Seaaea, he that the illness
; . .
- o.git•zed by Coogle
Live& the Adepts.
of the king of Gordia's nephew was caused by love, nnd by a
stratagem discovered the object of his affections.
Medicine and philosophy wf're his principal occupations, they·
obtained so much ('redit for him, that the Sultan Magdal Dou-'
let thought he could not do better than to place so penetrating a·
at the head of his affairs. He made him his
V1s1er.
Avicenna drank wine freely, nothwithstnnding the religion of
MahomE't wisely forbids it altogether; his intemperence led to
immorality and disorder, he was deprived of his dignities in the :
11tate, and died in 1037, a,.,"ed 56. He was buried at Hamadan, a
c!ty of Persia, which the ancient Ecbatana, then capital of
Media. . · ' ·. · ·· . ·
His dE'Stiny gave rise to a proverb, that he 'WaS a pltilosoplzer
'tJJitlumt and a physician without health. ···
· There are extant six or seven treatiRcs 6f his on the hermetic
P,hilosophy, perhaps some of them are only ascribed to him, hi'
consequence of his being celebrated in all Asia. He had illustrioul!
commenbl;tors on pis writings in the twelfth and thirteenth agE'S.
The European ph:vsicians for some time took him a." their master
in medicine; so that hiR writings were taught publicly in the
until the re-establishment of letters, or·rather until ·
in medicine. · · · · ' · · · · ·
A.LAIN OF LISLE.
THJs celebrated man, the u,nivertal rloctm; for
extent of his learning, resided at Lisle, and after a brilliant'period ·
passed in tlu, university of Pqris, of which he WI!S one .of .
most illustrious doctors, retired to a cloister, as a lay brother, m
order to be master of his time, and to devote himself enti1·ely to
philosophy. It is very likely that in this retre!lt, Alain practised
the hermetic science. ' · ·· ·
· There is renson to believe that he worked suqcessfully: he died
in 1298, aged more than 100 years ; the editors ofhis works have
riot inserted what he wrote on this it was, ho.wcyer., pfiptQd
andis preserve<! in tlfeatrum ckymz'c.um. ' . .
ALBERT. GREAT.
. '
THE universal genius of jQinE'd to a curiosity .
in so great a philosopher, did not allow himio pass by the her- ·
metic without giving it due attention. ·
:. ' . '·' . . .
1Qi11Zed by Goog e
.AJhert the Great.
••
. '.lllisleamed man was hom in ll9S, of an illustrious f'amiJy,
at Lawingen in the Dutchy of Neubourg, upon the Danube;-:
:he was rather stupid in his early years, which has been the
case with other great men. He was near S.O, when in 1222 he
entered the orderof St. Dominic; he had then some difficulty to
acquire the sciences, but his mind was hardly opened to study,
when in sixmonths he advanced more than another would in many
years. His acknowledged merit induced his superiors to get
him to teach in ditlerent houses of their order, and above all a*·
Cologne, where he received Thomas Aquinas, in 1244 as one of'.
his pupils. The year aftw, he went to Paris with this favo.rite-
d.isciple, for whom he had great affection, and took pleasure to
form him in the sciences. Thomas, full ofgratitude was equall1'
attached to his and did not quit him when Albert returned
from Paris to Cologne in 124.8. He even participated in the
glory Albert received, when the Emperor William of Holland,·
passing through the city in 1'249, chose to honor Albert with a
yjsit. · · ·
This man continued alwars to apply himself to the sci-
ences, but his prudence, which diStinguished him not less than
his knowledge, caused him to be chosen at Worms in 1254, pro-
Yincial of his order. The disputes agitated between the mendi-
cant order, and the University of Paris, respecting Episcopal
rights, made it necessary for him as provincial to attend at
Rome.
matters were not yet settled, when at his return into ·
Germany a superior post awaited him.-Pope Alexander IV.
appointed him in 1259, to fill the chair of Ratisbon; Albert
it but soon perceived that the episcopal dignity, whose
rights it was then necessary to defend with. an armed hand, waif
not suitable to a man reared in the tranquillity of the. cloister.
He had tasted the sweet and seducing leizure ofthe sciences, and
especially of which requires the entire man; and
was often abstracted even from. his personal wants. It was an
irre8istible attraction, that impelled him towards studious re-
.tirement. .
Albert lli!,' Bishopric in 1262, he retired tQ a
at and his application to
· · h h h' ' r·h' .rd . h Alb
t ts m vam t at t e Istormns o IS o er, argue t at . ert
never applied himself to the Hermetic Philosophy.· His boola·
alone sr.eak for him, and I mean books which are his, incontes-
iibly. As a he farefully regards Natuml
History, and above all the Minerals and Metals. He ·made
many singular produced book, " SecJ,'et
of Secrets," printed four or five times since the first edition at
Venice in 1508. The following passage is a:dduced to disprove his
a1chemy : the ass?res '!s, in his that he
essayed gold tmd silver; which an ha.
d made, they re-
o1git1zed by Coogle
.gp. into..
Jtow IIPUtl .tar this wealt i$ ta.kellt
.Albeit ofmem!lis: pro-.
•ePthe to ip:1itate Ql\ture•
.. ip natura). than his contemporaries, th
. ey.-
1!.im a magician, the cpmznon aggellatiqn Qf mprj! than:
attaiqment&, 41. gfBi.S of the 18th age: eve.n.
)gmg }lis his memory. W
iod Ore'* of Uelgiwu, published ip 1480,.
hiip. '!fU!tiqr in pltik!.spp.hia, i1J
.
Olle story of his extant in the
of University Qf Faris. . . · -
_.ll is WAAAm f){ was prevl!-iled on;
by gJ."eai PbijpsoflJiF., .to hopo,IU.' his bouse at CologQ.e, by.
q visit, and alknv him to entert@l thi& prince with a supper•
.41\wn; hf1.'l b4>lfll! laid in th.e al#lough the seaspQ.
was winter, and at that time extremely rigor:ous; the earth
with a.pd the courtiers who
J:l"ll"QlQred at iqlpruden<;e of 4-lbert, who e¥.pqsed the
to severity Qf the the snow
aJJd they feJt not Ql1.ly 9f =¥·ipg, bttt even the
"JJ& with the most flower" t4e hir.ds 1.\S •
]Urlew Ql' th.eir a@ tQC
peared in blossom. Their 11urprise at this metamorphose of
w.as coJlsiderallly .
the repas4 all tqe &Oftn,esll
-of t . P
. e air, flowe
. rs,
.. the of the delightful
.. spripg
disappear,ed in a
to th.
e before. ' ·
·Bv atl;ending of
wltieh history pf th,e PlJilny
Albert tlu'e.c beiot:e was deprived of hi-4.
nJeJ.Qory, and tot:j\Uy forgot ev.ery th,ing· he lmew, with the excep-
.
<>f the et;sential dut\e" of in which he per!jevered
alwtlY$, mttRth.e end Qf the Y.e<J.! when }le 1,1t Co,logne,
Rged 87 years.
ffistoire l'Univ.ersite de Paris 1255, 3 tome, p.
()uetif et Echardus Bibliotlleca Dominicanorum, ·toni. 1. .
lib. Cf)jJo 9, :an4 'folamew lin !fistQ1·ia Ecclesillft•.
up. 17, . .
THQl\:IAS AQUIN4S.
Aun:.RT the had in St. Thomas a to whom he would:
disCover every t,hing he held most secret; perhaps he loved him
he 1ound him a great depth of piety, joined to an
maturit¥ of intellect that Jnerited all his in!)tructiotlll.
D1g1tized by Coogle
His docility was as great as his birtlt, which he derived frona
the Counts of Aquinas, one of the first houses of Naples.
He died in March 1274,· at fifty years of age, just as he wa
!!lumrnoned to the Council at Lyons. He carefully
avoided, in all . his works of the of. al-
C<:hemy, persuaded of the dishnnour it would bring to his
'with those who hold the least tendency towards it, as the heig}i
of human folly.
There at·e some alchemical treatises ascribed to him,
he ·did not write; but there are others that cannot be
That of the Nature if Minerals, 'not worthy of so great
philosopher; nor the Comment on the Tur·ba. But his Treasttn:
9/.Alchemy, addressed to Brother Regnauld, his companion l}hd
friend, is genuine. He cites Albert in this bobk, as his m3:ster
in all things, especially in Hermetic philosophy. He addressed
other to Regilauld, on some curious sciences, amongst
wbich is a treatise on Judicial Astrology.
Thomas wrote with neatness an<l precision. His
tharacter is secrecy ; to preserve this important operation in-
violable from unworthy men, none other but the children of
light, who live as in the presence of God, bcjng fit for the
knowledge, or charge ·of so gteat a mystery. ·
He recommends the salvation of souls, and Christian duties of
prayer and preaching, rather than an application to a science
tbat can only procm·e some temporal advantages.
In his works of Theology, he says, "It is not lawful to sell a$
good gold, that which is made by Alchemy." And yet, when he
speaks of philosophy, he testifies, " that the aim of the alchemist
" is to change impenect metal into that wlziclt is petfect ;'' and.
'• that it is P''ssible." ·
These are contradictions, unless he refers to the l'aw of juris-
prudence, in which there is no admission of the fact, that perfect
gold can be made by art.
H e was named the Angelical Doctor, for his religious works
in T heological Casuistry, and the scholastic learning of
t imes.
See·Tliesa'lft". A!clzim. tap. 1,.S, 8; .22,! que#. 77. artiue
iio. -
4, me/eQ1'Um initio. . .
o1git1zed by Coogle
l
13 Lives.of ihe .Adept1.
!JACON.
RoGER BACON was the first Englishman who is known to
have cultivated alchemical phisosophy. He was of that su-
perior and penetrating genius, that acquires a science, and fa-
thoms it .to the bottom, until .its main principles are demon-
strated. He was acquainted with theology in its depth, and no-
thing was strange to him, not only in such necessary sciences,
as medicitle and physic, but even of those which being only of
cmriosity, wete almost unknowri in his time. Mathematics, geo-
mehy, mechanics, perspective and optics, were his occupation
and delight. He penetrated into chemistry almost as far as any
have done after him. . •
· This learned man was born in 1214, near Ilcester, in Somer-
:set. He made extraordinary progress in the preliminary studies.
and when his age permitted, he entered into the order of St.
Francis; this was the custom,of the times. After his first studies
at Oxford, he went to Paris, where he learned mathematics
and medicine; and at his return, he applied himself to lan..
guages and.pkilosophy, in which he made such progress, that
he wrote three grammars, Latin, and Hebrew. He under-
stood perfectly, and even explained the nature of optic glasses,
upon which he wrote a very curious treatise, and shewed their
force in burning .combustibles at a considerable distance.
We see, by what he wrote on his extensive know-
ledge of optics, in all its branches. He speaks solidly of the
.njlection and rifraction qf light. He describes the camera
.scw·a, and all 'sorts of glasses that augment or diminish objects,
in approaching them, or removing them from the eye.
He has even known the use of the optic tube, or telescope,
""hich is supposed a modern invention. Bacon was almost the
only astronomer of his time; he remarked a considerable error
- with regard tQ the solar year, which had encreased from the time
pf the Julian reformation. Bacon proposed a plan for correcting
it 1267, to Pope Clement IV..who, though s:kilful, did not
put it in practice. But it was on the same plan, three centuries
after, that the Calendar was corrected by order of Pope
GrTegory. · d h · · · fB d"l . tl
'he penetratwn an t e activity o aeon I( not rest m 1ese
aciences ; he turned to mechanism, and searched into its prin-
ciples to the bottwn ; and as Archytas made a wooden pidgeon to
flv, so he, it is said, contrived a macltine to rise in the air, and
a d1uriot more speedily, than if drawn by horses. He
knew the art of putting statues in motion, and to draw articulate
sounds from a head C?f b1·ass. In chemistry he discovered the
properties of iun-powder; he the matter of which it is
o;9,11zed by Google
Raymund Lully. 17
arid the extraordinary efFects it producer ·So many
inventions from one nian would be incredible, if his own writings
did not attest them.
· Should we be surprized, if all these prodigies obtained for him
the name of magician, in an age of ignorance nnd superstition.,
Even the friars of his own order refused to let his works into
·their library, as if he was a man who ought to be proscribed by so-
ciety. His persecution encreased, till, in 1278, he was imprisoned,
and this philosopher was obliged to own that he repented of the
pains he took in ·arts and sciences. He was constrained to aban-
don the house of his order, and to form ·a retreat where he
might work in quiet. This house is shewn to every curious visitot' 1
of Oxford to this day. .
· He died in 1292, aged 78. ' We have few of this great man's
works printed ; but the libraries in England preserve several in
manuscript.· ·
See Opus Mqjm, folio. L>nd. 1735.
Epistle to John Bishop of Paris.
RAYMOND LULLY.
AMONG the philosophers, few have made 80 ,much noise as
Raymond Lolly. His story, family, person, and learning, make
him a sort of prodigy. Of an illustrious house, originally of
Catalonia, he entered.the army, after the example of his
who served under James I. King of Arragon, in 1280, at the
taking of Majorca and Minorca from the Saracens, where, partly
by purchase, and partly by the gift of the King, he
considerable estates.
Hisson Raymond was born in 1285, and as it was not customary
for the nobility to be studious ; Raymond, after a short course of
-education, was satisfied to follow the court of King James II.
.who made him Seneschal of the Isles, and Grand Prevot of the
Palace. Two male children, and one girl that he had by an
edvantageous marriage, did not_
at all fix his affections. He cast
his eyes upon a lady, whose least qualification was extreme
beauty, superior to all the rest of the court. He was assiduous
about her person, who was the object of his desires. He soli-
eited, he wrote billet-doux and V«)rses, but made no progress.
The Signora Ambrosia Eleonora de Castello, for that was the
name of the lady1 tired, with the assiduity of a lover
wai 80 importunate, sought10 core him by coldness, which,
far from rebuking·Raymond,: sened·only to inflame his ardoul·•
.At ·last, this impassiOned courtiel' :having iem hec a piece of
, I .. · ' . , . ' •. . • ' d: b . . . <
'· .. • . •.
o1git1zed by Coogle
18 Li7:(8 tJf the Adepts.
poetry, in which he partkul.1rly described the .beauty o! her
:1\t;ek, ·she took the opportunity to recall him to reason. She
informed him, in a very poiite letter, which she wrote in the
·prese1\ce of her husband; " That being ·a lord of srent spirit,
worthy of the esteem of a:ll those who were most dist.mguishcd at
court, she was astonished he could be nttnclicd to a person who
so Htde merited his attention. That as she loved him much
more sincerely than she mllUe appear, sl1e counselled hint to mise-
.1ris VOWS towards the Eternal "Seing, instead of them upon
.a transitory creature. But since her :bosom ltnd wonndt'<l hiR
heart, she hoped very soon to cure him, by exposing it naked
.to bjs view; in order to ntford him an opportunity of lu10\\·ing
the object of his praises." .,
· Raymond did' not ·comprehend the sense of this letter; be
flattered his pS»iion ingeniously, and by bis extravagant atten-
tions to Eleonora, she waa convinced it wu time to ·renieqy his
delirium. By her husband's advice she gave him an interview:
She at first addressed him with e\·ery m·gument to remove his
chimerical passion, but ·found that he, on the contrary, was ar.
dently promising himself success. She then asked him what he
hoped by attaching himself to pursue her so steadfastly. I hope,
said Raymond, to possess the finest and mQ&t beautiful person in
Europe. You deceive then, niy· lord, said Ambrosin,
and here is the proof: -at tbis she bared her bosom, so benutiful
in his imnginatipn; · \\hat was ltis borror nt finding it all alee-
rated witlt a cancer : " Behold;'' said she; " and judge, if this
miserable body merits your eulogies and esteem. I coansel yoU,
once more, my lord, to fix your affections on that, which is truly
WOl'thy· of your esteem, the grand object of a Christian soul."· '
· This ·sight touched thE:1heart more than the eyes of Raymond;
and, after expressing to this excellent lady, how much he fur
her misfortune, he withdrew to his liouse, and feeling his heart
altogether changed·from ·what it was before, he threw himself at
the toot of the •Cross, resolved·'to consecrate. himself to the·ser·
:Vi'ce of God: · Full of this Christian determination, ·he passed a
·more· tnmquil nip;ht :than he had been accustomed to;· arid;
duryng· his he tllought he saw Je8us Christ, W.ho,.·with'a·
particular grace, said to him; " Raymond,·.follow me .from lienee-
forth." · Tl1is vision being ttepentcd, he judged it was
:of God. Hnymond was· thirty yeari: old; if was yeaf
· He wns··Griwd Scnc¢hal,: that is, •Master of the Houke
to the l{ing,. wbich ·is qne· of: Clle:most noble' situationS dboiJ.t
Court. · :He eilj9Yed the ·ofhis sovtr.dgnr: and· might
llSpire. to ariy ·honour for.hMnself -or his fiUD.ily;·r Nevertheless;
the attraction· of Divine much, more· powerful.dn
than that t>f' a grrot• estAblishment; and the·n1ost flatteringrlwpelio
sriqn: arranged his ,divjdcd. s() much of.his ·.estate
among his family as enabled them to live honourably according
ro their rank; and distributed the rest to the poor. Retiring ta
o1git1zed by Coogle
19
a small dwelling on Aranda, near his estate,· he pre}lnred
himself to ' labour for the conversion of the Mahometans, by.
studying their books in the Arabic language. After six years,
he set out, with a servant who could speak the language, and
was a Mahometan ; but he, understanding that his master in-
umded to dispute against the Coran, formed the desperate reso-
lution to assassinate him the first opportunity. He soon seized
a moment, in which he. stabbed the unsuspecting Rnymott<l,
plunging a dagger in his breast; and would have repented the
blow, but that a pious anchorite coming by, assisted to disarm
him. of him to death, Raymond consented,
with reluctance, ·to commit him .to prison, .where he shortly after.
strangled himself, in a furious rage. full of disappointment that
l•e had not. auc;ceedcd in destroying the enemy of his religion.·
· Happily tke blow WSB not mortal ; and when Raymond-was
recoyer.ed,. he returned to his beloved solitude. In 17'26 he:
founded in the .convent of Saint Francis,: at
Palmes, for the Arabxc language, to serve towards convertmg
the infidels. '
It WaS in 1281 that Raymond went to Paris, where he became·
acquainted with ARNOLD·vILLA NovA, ft'om whom he obtained
the first rudiments of tbe secret; and he continued in that city
fer some time, teaching· philosophy and the sciences in a new·
method, ·since called the Lullian art•· From Paris he travelled
. to Rome, where he arrived in April, 1287, just after the death·
of the whose patronage he expected, to establish the·
study of the Oriental languages, in the monasteries, for the pur- .
pose o( propagating the faith. He, theret'ore, ·returned to Paris,·
disappointed of his hopes. ·
. ln ·1291, he visited the King of Majorca, at Montpellier,
a,nd there he found his friend Arnold, who was at the head of
the fiiculty of medicine in'that city. · ,
His travels were not fruitless, as he wrote and taught pub..
lickly wherever he stopped. He was still, however, unsatisfied, .
and did not give liP his desi:e for the of infidels. Hq
set out for RoQte, and staxd on the way; fur some at .
Geneva. With all his solicitation, he could not obtain fi·om
.Fope Nicholas. n:I the he desired fer the Oriental ·
languages. 'These disappointments made.him think he .should
go_
himself to announce JesusChrist to • . this
destgn, he returned to Genoa, to take hts passage mto Africa•
.He put all his books :and .eft'ects on board a ship, and was
ready to embark for that part of the world, when a sudden
him, and made him change his resolution. His regret
givingway to this view of danger, threw him into a fit uf sick-
ness ; and.when ·he was ·recovered, in order to repair his f.·mlt,
be sailed .in the first vessel bound for Tunis. -Immediately on
his arrival, he disputed with the chief ministers of religion
&he-re, .and wu ·llqQn aiTeated and to deatht as-
o1git1zed by Coogle
·Li'f)es of t1ze Adepts.
a seducer of the people. He would ·have ·received the crown:
of marytrdom at that time, but that a learned Arabian, who
loved him, interceded with.the Kinp-, remonstrating against
ting so great a man to death. The sentence was · accordingly
changed iuto banishment. He was therefore obliged, ·
ately to quit the kingdom, on pain of death if he returned. It:
was in 1293 that he arrived in Genoa, from this disastrous
sion, and from thence he went to Naples, where· he met Arnold
Yilla NO'Oa; and being in controversy with him against the pos-
sibility of transmutation, the fact was proved to him by an ex-
periment. He remained at Naples during the year 1294,.
teaching his shOl't of acquiring the sciences. After this.
he passed some time at Home, still labouring to .execute his pro-
ject for establishing the study of Eastern languages ; in which
attempt, he found that Boniface VIII. was too much occupied
with difficulty of maintaining his temporal authority, to give·
him any assistance. .
Raymond now gave up all hopes of success at Rome. He.
went to' Milan, a quiet suited to the retirement of a
sopher, ·and there continued to practice some chemical opera-
tions; In his Book ofMercury, 'he relates, that he endeavoured:
to obtain a solution of that metal, at Milan, in 1296 ; and the .
house where he lived is still shewn in that city. He next tra-
wlled to Montpellier, ·and was received with distinction by ·
Raymond Gauff:redy, General of the Order of I{e
obtained letters of association, as a benefactor to the order, the
superiors of which were put under his direction, and he taught
h,is method of scieqce in their houses. He was still disquieted
for the fate of qis plan, and successively addressed the Kings of
}'r:anee, Sicily, and Cyprus; but all was in vain ! -
Nevel' wa11 a more active life; he taught every where he went ;
and preached in against the Schismatics, for which he,
had the good fortune to persecuted•
.At length he returned to · ISQS, where ].Je conversed
with the celebrated Dr. .fohn Scott, who was called die subtle
doctor. He the to find thatKing Philip had the
Orie11tal tattght in the University of Paris., This in- ·
duced Raymon<l to proceed next year to Ferdinaqd IV. King
of Castile, to him to join with the King of France in :
recovering the Holy Land; and to prove zeal, he \'entured .
again to Africa, landed at Bona, formerly called Hippona, the.
ancient diocese of St. Augustine, and in spite of the opposition
of Infidels, its inhabitants, he did leave it till he con-·
f<?llowers of ppilosophy of Averroes. From
takmg Ius to Algters, he converted many Mahomc-.
t;ms; the he &qifered in this city, wei!t to a.
1nuch gr.ea'ter height :-'-they put a bridle in his mouth, as if he
WM. a horse, and deprived him, by this means, of' the froo use·
oi_ fur forty.dafs, .he tl\en p...Wlicly.beatenr.and ..
o1git1zed by Coogle
. .ilaJPRorrd Lully. ·. II
P,elled.&om kingdom. He had no other road, tG-return W
Tunis, where sentence of death him since hut he.
remained concealed, and in a short time went to Bugia;. where
he publicly announced the Gospel. ..
The Mahometan doctors apprehending the success\ of hill
preaching in that city, had him arrested
. , and placed in
ment. They went in a crowd to the prison, tp persuade him.tn
take the turban. The controversy lasted for some time, and
neither party were persuaded ; upon which they liberated hi"'
from captivity, .and considering him a dangeroQS charaotel", wh().
disturbed the public peace, put him on 3 v.ea&el lMl\Uld tQ
Genoa.
In this voyage, he was shipwrecked w.ithiq sight of the port
of He, and all on hoard, were but...he .lost hi..
effects, and fell sick at Pisa, where he waa carefully.attended. h)'l
the Dominicans. He was recovered at the time that a General
Council was held at Vienna, in lSll; and hoping to. obtaill!
in some propositions he had t9 make, he attended.it. Itt
was in this city he received letters from King of Eng...
land, who ascended the.throne in 1807, and Robert, King o£
Scotland, \\·ho both invited him, .with much persU8$ion,.to v,Wi'
their realms. Raymond hoped to encourage thelle .prmcea
assist him in his views against the Infidel!i, Q.Qd he, soon arrived
at London, where he had apartments given him in .the.
He promised the· King to sw:na: of.
for carrying his project into effect, and he was .
now pr.essed 't<l
fulfill his proposals. . Raymond accordingly trammuted. base
metal into gold, which was coined,. at the mint, into siK million.
of Nobles, each worth three pounds Sterling at present day.r
These coins are well known to Antiquarians, .by the name of the:
Rose Noble. They erove, in the .as$8y. of ·the teat, to be a .
Eurcr gold than the or any olher gold coin made in,
Jhose times. Lully, in his la.st declares, that in •
short time, while in London, he convc;rted twenty-two tons.•
weight pO.,OOO of quicksilver, lead, and into·
Gold. · ·
He sent to King Robert, of Scotland, a book of tkt arl qfi
#ransmuting metals, in 4e 1Qentiolli a codicil sent by him1
King J!1dward, in .
Robert Constantine, who wrpte a flistory qf
pbserves, thf't be public documents, by which aq>peared
that Raymond LWJy tnade gQ\<1, in the tower. of by.
the order and . of the King ; and that the coin.was, in
l1is called the R"ymond Noble; and .Dr. EdmWld Dick-
enson that the workmen who removed the.. cloister,
which Raymond occupied, at fouqd some of the
powder, by which they enriched themselves. The historian;
'(:amden, w49 was tw. aedulows, rewrds, that these Rost'·
o1git1zed by Coogle
Libea of the AaePts!
Nobles' wete Coined .oi gold: triade bv' Raym.mid Lultv,
quoted :in page !42, of Borriehius's •Rise and of
Chemistry. · . . . ' . . ,
. is an .against these facts, draWJI from Lully's
_
book of Art Of Science, the 9th,. 9\
Elements, 10 whtch he " one specfeg of matter canno_
t
ellanged into anotlier ; and, that " the gold of alchef1ly but'
ihe semblance of that metal." But it is very true,
, _
th:ut w,ithoutl
i; !JimUarity of .species, cpitld he Jio transmutation·; nnd
all other appearanCes of it in diverse species, are tictltious.-
lohrt de Meun; Cremer, and John R'i1pecissa, who were cO.:
of no of his bei,ng a,n · '
: ltaymoad Lully had now a suffictent prqof, that E<lward, whP..
•• by unwOrthy favourites, would not emulate'his' fQ,..
thds 'Vi!tUeS,' and b1stead of entering into plans for th'e:
_
·of .found _liimself
;nton:er.. He theret?re out .of m
ad travelled to Meesma and Here he resolved to set
again ·for Africa. · Hisfiieqds saw, with pain) an old ma'n o(
&eventy..:nirte embaik on this perilous ffom which
eould ne.el' hope to see him return'; They accompanied him t()
·&otn·whence. he ror Emt; ·a·rrived· ; .tra:.:
•elled to Jet"lis&lem, and back to Tums; there he found · many
. merUM and diSciples; wbom he had converte<l.,· He exhc»tcd
t.hah to 'persevere; and departed fur Bugra.· This was the ter;.
JbiDation of. hie apostolie labours, and God crowned h'im
with tile martyl'd6II1 he had always.desired, J!rom the
of his al'rival at this city, he not content with catechis.ing· m:
priVata;: but ,pnb!icly _
· the ,. This Christian'
·&nd· coorage, not1ung··could .daunt,_
Sc;>vereJgn and people to a that,
mg upon htm·m a·croud,'they c6veredhlm w1tn blowsi and o.,__
Jlis·retiring towards the part,·he was ovet'Whelmed 'rith a sh(}wer.
of stones. The niaht fottowing, some Gehoese merchants, whose
-.esael in·the aHjacent river,. obtained permissibn to take up,
· the body, they found had some .remains of life. They'
-Clu-ried .him on boo.rd a ship then onthe point of" sailing;· In,
two days arrived within sight of M_ajorcn, just as the_
Raymond expired, on the of June, l!:H5; he was then
aged '81 ·year&. . · . . . . .
• His·remains were brought tO his family chapel, in the church:
of' Ula, 'attended by the vic_eroy, principal nobility. · .
• .The·Iabours. of Raymond· are ·when we observe,
that his travels, voyageS, and public teaching, did not prevent
him ftom·writing five hundred on variou$ subjects; . ·
peciaUy ·of grammar; rhetoric,' logic; nririlectic; ·politics,'_
civil and canon Jaws, physics, metaphysics, music; astronomy,
medicine, chtHnistry) .and all -ha1'e been'·well written·
by leru·ned man. ··
o1git1zed by Coogle
&e tl.e tes#mO!t!J of Cret!ll!r,. abbot o/ h eltff..irJsU'r•.in Xke·
ctru1!l Clt!J!"icum, for the transmutqtiO'Il$ i11 $nglpnd 1 _alsq, C.arn-
dm's Britannia; and Selden, i1tMare Clattsus, libro 3, fm·
'Noble. · Bt·rgeman f(Jm 4, p. 1i6. Petty
gales, Jor tke ediq· qf Heney PI. King qf Et.gla_nd, in.letlerJ
patent to Lords, Nob!es, Prqjessors,
eng11ge .tkem in tlte purStf.it fll tlte slont;,
tke Priests; (says tke pimtS King), wlzo llf!,Vi,lg tke p(J'!I)er of
'Oerting bread wine into·rne f>ody and blood mD!J well
•omJCrt _tin impure into a perftct mej41. · · · ,
ARNOLD .._
THERE is a contest among the learned, whether Amoll'l was
of Catalonia, Milan, or and there is an. equal doubt
respecting the time of bis birth ; but it is probaJ:>le he w-. born
about the year and· died about the year 1810; for thi1
J'eWlOJl: Pope Clement V. wrote a circular letter, jo IS11, at
the time of the General Council at Vienna, .conjuring th011e ,who I
lived under his authority, to discover, if possible, and send to
hinr the Treatise on Medicine, written by Arnold, wJio
it ,-,_o t,he Holy Father, but died before he could prescpt it. .
. · studied medicine at for twenty years ; he
lived ten years at ; after wpic4 he spent not lesa
than ten years in visiting the of Italy. . He eve,
went into Spain : but hearing that Peter, of Apono, his friend,
was imprisoned there by the Inquisition, he withdrew, and re-
mained under the pntronuge of King of Naples and
Sicily, where he wr6te some ttacts of Medicine, and his Com-
ment on the School of Salerno These studies and travels, for
tbe..spllce of forty-five years,.leaves t\yenty -bis
age, when :he began, at PatJS, the sertous phyl!u:.-
is more certainty in. lb!t tinte his ;
for, m. l899,.James II. .f{mg of Arragon,
()lelllent Y•. to cont£r re:specting the of King ff: Jerusa-
lem, to wlUcp James beheved he WHS l.Jl 1:311,
the Pope the circular fot.: treatise of
the -d.ec.eaJJe<I· Arnold, whose deat4 is then fixed· between tbe
1899, 1311. ' .. I • . ' ' • ' . '' • ' : . :
. .Hia COUQtry .is mQSt probably Langu,edoc; Jor,
C,h.
dmpifr.. fro!D. ·heard of during
.hiS residence m that m c_el_ltury.
the learned Olaus Borrtchms, who travellEl<i m Franee,
us, that he knew a descendant of Arnold's, Monsieur .Villenc1,1ve
de Montpes8t',"'one' of the I tir:.-t barons wlio,. in
166+, at Avignon, made some experiments before him, that
proved he had inherited the Hermetic philosophy. He acknow-
ledged .Aruold Villanova one of his
D1g1tized by Coogle
Lives of ihe Adepts,
· from the same authority, that the science
had been c:ommunicated by Arnold to his brother, Peter Villa-
nova.
· Arnold ·had an extensive mind: he learned from tho Arabs of
Spain, !heir language and strictures on the
·Monastzc. State, and the Semce 1f Rtlzgton; and asserted, that
'Works of divine faith and charity were more agreeable to God
than the sacrifice of the mass.
· ·No one disputes his skill in Hermetic philosophy; -Not
only his works speak for him, but we have the testimony of the
celebrated ·Jurisconsult John Andre, his contemporary, who
says : " In this time appeared Arnold de Villeneuve, a great
theologian, a skilful physician, and wise alchymist, who made
gold,_:which he submitted to all proofs." "He testifies tlze ge-
mtine cotlVi!rsion qf iron bars into pure gold, at Rome/' Arnold
has also the character of writing with more light and clearness
.·than the other philosophers. But all this wisdom did 1\0t shelter
.him from the fate of mortals; for,· in travelling from Italy into
France, to Pope Clement V. who required his presence at Avig-
·llou, he died, and was interred at Genoa.
See Du Boulay's Hist. Paris, tom 4, p. 121, 4' 2 p. 166. Bor...
''.ric4ius de ortu et progressus, clzemia. 129. J. Andreas ad spi-
culum ; Rttbri de crimine falsi. Oldradius roncilio, 69. Paiwr-
'mitan, decretal. Fabianus sect. 5, no. 8. Op·eris Arnoldi de
. J'"illa Novatjolio 15<>9•
. JOHN RUPECISSA.
· HE was on!! of the most extraordinary of the Hermetic Plti-
tosopkers. He wal$ hom of a noble 'roily, one of whose de-
scendants was the illustrious and leadJed Father Don Bernard
de Monifaucon, who was the honour of literature in his time.
· John Rupecissa was altogether out of the ·line of ordinal')"
.men; ..: he was filled with the spirit of prophecy, and in de-
nouncing the fate of nations, the crowned heads thought bini
'their enemy. Pope Innocent VI. was repreliended by him; he
therefore imprisoned him, in 1857. The manner of hi4
is nof'known;· bu(lze pr(!/'essed lzimself'tzn adept in tlle :
.secret che-
mislrg, ·by several works' on that science, which ate :.....4
they arc considered obscure. · ·
Se-e Wading .dn'f!llle$ Mitiorum, ad ammm, U51/ ·
; "' ' .
·..... > .. ;.., . . . ... .: • !'..) 4
o1git1zed by Coogle
. 25
POPE JOHN, XXII•
. HE was born at Cahors, in 1244, not of a mean family, as
some writers have recorded, but of noble birth. He was co-
temporary with Lully and Arnold; he had an acute mind, with
a sweetness of manner, and natural eloquence cultivated by
a great depth of study. Historians· mak'e no difficulty to
ack.nowledge that this pope.wrote, in Latin, the transmutatory
art of metals·; it is recorded, that he worked at the practice of
the hermetic philosophy, in the city of Avignon; where he held
his chair until his·death, which happened in 133!, and he made
there two hur:dred !ingots that weighed each, one quintal. . ·
':(he calculation is easy; two hundred !ingots made 10,000 lbs.
troy weight. The present actual value of gold on an average of'
rill Europe, is about five pounds ten shillings per ounce, at which
rate, 120,000 ounces is worth 660,000 pounds British sterling.
Sho-uld we .then be surprised that there was found in the
treasury of this Pope at his deatl1, eighteen millions of florins in
and seven millimlS in jewels, and sacred vases, as ·recorded
• m history ? . ' .
Notwithstanding · his writing a treatise on alchemy, and
making these transmutations, such was the al'ising in his
(ime from the impositions of pretended alchemists, that he issued
a bull condemning all traders in this science, as imposters, stating·
that they promise wluzt they do not pet:fonn.
Joannes scripsit quoque latina sermone artem metallorum t1·ans-
mutatorium, quod opus prodiit Gallier, incerto translatore Lugduni,
1557, in 8vo. Frar.ciscits Pagi hrer.,iarium de gesti's 1'onzano-
1'Um pontificum tom. 4, i1L Joanne XXIL .!"o· 88 i11 4to•
• CREMER.
1'H'ERE are few nations that have produc::ed disciples of
occl,llt philosophy than England. John Crem.er of W E;st-
minster London, was one of the most celebrated artists of his
age, he .worked thirty years tp obtain the of this secret
science; the obscurities of the hermetic writers, which he could
not clear up, had cast him into a labyrinth of errors; the more
l1e read the more he wandered, .at last tired with tlie loss of hi51
money, and much more of his precious tiine, which he should
have employed to better advantage; he set out to travel; he
arrived in Italy, and had the good fortune to meet Raymond
Lolly, with whom he formed a strict friendship, he remained
60me time in company with this pious philosopher, edified by his
D
D1g1tized by Coogle
26 Lioes of the Adepts.
penitent life, and instructed by the lights he drew from his con-
versation, nevertheless though Raymond conversed corclially with
the abbot, and explained himself freely, he did not entirelydiscover
the e&Rential points of the operation. Cremer was insinuating
and affectionate, he pePCeived that Lolly's zeal for the conver- '
sion of the infidels extended to the false enthusiasm of exciting
open war .against the mahometans, who were then spreading
thro"UghoutAsia, Africa, and Europe; he easily persunded him to
visit England in the prospect that King Edward by his assistance
would clistinguifih himself in the ca\lse he had at heart.
Raymond had in vain addressed princes, and as his last
resource, he accompanied his friend Cl'emer .to England, and
lodged in his Abbey of W estminl!tel', where he worked and ·
the stone which Cremer had so long sought. without
8UCCess. He thenmade no more diftkulty to Haymond to
King Edward. Cremer had informed this prince of the great
talenta of the iJ.lustrious stranger,.aQd he WUI'Ci:Cived accordingly
with much regard and attention. ·
Raymond made these conditions- ol'l'ly wLe.o be communicated
.his treasurw, "that they sb.ould not be expended eithe'r in the
'luxuries of the court, or in war, with a Chl'istinn prince ; and
•at the king Should yp ¥a petson w.ith an army agaiJlst the
infidels.. ·
Edward, under doing honor to Raymond,. gave him
an the towel' ?f the philosopher
agam repeated hrs this was m an honorable pr1son,
and from the time Raymond satisfied the king in every thing he .
(}e$4:ed, he no 1o.J.:'gel.' heeded the object, which Raymond was..
desirous to have execated. 'l'hi. was eROU¥h to c6nvince Ray-
Jpond that misfortune must attend a pnnce who evades hi&
promise, and penetrated with disappointment and grief; he found
means to escape from the tower and fiuickly departed from.
England.. ·
. CremeF; wh01e fueentiontt we:te &inc:ereJ was not less grieved
than Raymond, hut be wai subject to the and could only
groan in silence for the conduct of his SQVCI'elgn. . He declare&
in his testament, his extreme aftliction at the event, od his.
:monastery, daily o:ft'el'eti up pra1ers to God for the success of
R4ymond's cause. . ·
Cremer lived loag after this, arid saw part of the reign of killg
Edward the III. the course of operations- which he proposes in
his testament, with apparent sincerity, ia not less veiled u.an, tbQ
most obscure authors.
o1git1zed by Coogle
BASIL VALENTINE.
Ia the beginning of the 15th century is placed, nasH Va..
Ientine, a benedictine monk of Erfurt in Germany in the elec-
torate of Mayence, one otthe most illustrious of the adept phi·
losophers. It was supposed that thi11 name was fictitious, for the
purpose of concealing some accomplished artist. But the history
ofthe city of Erfurt, published by I. M. Gudenus, who carefhlly
.examined the publk documents of this city, assures us of the
existence and name of this philosopher, who in HlS, lived in
the abbey of St. Peter, and distinguished himself by a profound
knowledge of nature; tlris is all that is known of him, a few par-
ticulars only of his life ue to be met in his writings.
His oumerollS workBt which have been translated from the
German, into Latin, French, and English, shew him to have
been extremeiy laborious in cl!emistry, and that he knew how
to join the practice ef the hermetic; science, to the duties of
religion. ·
He incloted his behind a rl.lar of his abbey chureh,
where they remainc4 until a storm o. thunder which broke the
pillar discovered them.
The most antient system of chemical philosophy, is preserved
in the detail of experiments, by Basil Valentinc : every subtance.
placed in the fire, yields a spirit, which he calls mercury, an in-
ftammable.principle, named and the most fixed part, he
salt. .
He extols antimony as the source ofexcellent medicines,. to
those who know the secrets of alchemy, but that otherwise it is a
poi$on of the most powerful nature.
Eadem tetate (scilicitamo HIS} Basilius Valentinus, in divl
Petri monasterio vixit arte medica, 4- naturali indagatirme admi-
rabilia. Joam1es Mauritius Gudemts in E.1j'ordiensis, in
4:to. Erfurti, 1675. . ·
ISAAC OF HOLLAND.
IN the same &ge• Isaac the Hollander, and his worked
with great suceess: the celebrated Boerhaave, who will be aclmow-
ledged a sound judge in these matters, bears testimony .to their
skill. They are not only the first known Dutch alchemists, but
they carried it so far, thatParacelsus, in the 16th century, and the
illustrious Mr. Boyle in the 17th, have the honor of many curious
operatiOD& which they copied from these two ar·
a.ie&a.
o1git1zed by Coogle
•
28 Lives of the Adepts.
, Tho priJciplc subjects of their labours .were the metals, and
their writinas, most of which are printed,· shew with what care
they describing the minute particulars of each process.
Their lives are almost unknown, buried in the obscurity necessary
to adepts, they were occupied in the practice of the hermetic
1\cience, and their study or laboratory was the daily scene of
their industrious lives.
They are placed in the 15th century by conjecture, from their
not quoting any philosopher subsequent to that age, they speak
of Geher, Dastin; Moricn1 and Amo!d, but no philosopllet· more
modern than these appears in their works. Yet as they spcnk of
aquafortis, and aqua-regire, which were invented in the 14th
age, it is most probable tliey lived towards the beginning ofthe
fifte@th century. ·
See Boerlzaave's Elements of Clzemistry, 4-to. London.
· JOHN DE MEUN.
· THis poetical adept was of a good family, and flourished at_
the court of France in that age, when all people of rank were
nddicted to the studv of the secret chemistry. Pope John XXII.
at this time, was one of-the most zealous disciples of the curious
sciences, and above all, of the hermetic philosophy.
· John de Meun was born about the year 1280, at Meun upon
the Loire, four leagues from Orleans: he was sometimes called
Clopinel, from a defect in one of his legs : at two or three and
twenty, he had acquired much information in the sciences of
astronomy, arithmetic, philosophy, chemistry, and theology;
he.had read attentively all the best authors, and as his inanners
were agreeable, though sometimes too free in satire, he became
a favourite tlt the court of Philip; and always had access there
fl·om the esteem of the nobility. He was unmarried, and although
he was in the enjoyment of those favours, he irritated all the
-ladies of the court, by his severe verses on the sex; they re;..
solved to punish ·him, and accordingly a number of them .were
provided with rods, against he appeared in the apartment ofthe
king, determined to flagellate him, but his wit helped him out, for
addressing the ladies, he told them, he would voluntarily suffer
the intended punishment; but as the verses alluded to, were
only agai.m;t unprincipled females, he did not expect disapproba-
tion from the virtuous ladies present, but would request that she
whom he had offended most, should have the pleasure of"striking
the first blow. This .finesse saved him, and afforded much plea-
to"the public.
· It was about this time 1300, that he pqbli&hed the celebrated
Romance of tlze Rose, which attracted general men
of pleasure read it as a voluptuous love tale, the admirers
by Coogle
John De !9
of meer romance esteemed it; while the adepts saw beneath the
-ornament of stile,- and incidents, the process for the stone for the
philosophers. . · ·
· The plan of this poem is ascribed to William de Loris of Gas-
cony who wrote the first part, he died in 1260, aged 26.
The Romance of the Rose, as well as some other of the
of John de Meun, evinced a knowledge of the hypocrisy
nnd vices of some monks of his time, and his remarks frequently
brought him into danger. The Sermon qf Genitu, chaplain and
confessor to Dame Nature, in the Romance, is not only an e:x-
pos.ition of the principles of chemistry, but a satire on the preach-
ers of the day, who for popular admiration, sayunintelligable·things
rather than plain truths. Fromverse 16914 to 16997 there is much
chemical information. Besides this he wrote two other treatises
.expressly alchemic, which together compose 1800 verses, the
first is the "Remonstrance qf Nature, to th.
e erring Alchemist,"
·the other is " The Reply qf the' Alchemist to
.There is a letter in this author's name, which seems to be taken
from Raymond Lully's works, and is dated Mons, 1422. This
.shews it is not his, a5 his death is supposed to hnve been about the
year 1365. He shewed the same satirical wit. in dying, as in his ·
life, by exposing the cupidity of the monks. He chose by his
will, to be interred in the church of the Jn.cobins, and as an
acknowledgment, left them' a coffer, that appeared to be filled
with precious things, at lea..'!t by its weight; but he ordered that
· this coffer should not be opened till aft«;r his funeral. The monka
failed not to raise this treasure, the moment after the funeral wu
duly solemnized; and, touched with the .piety of the deceased,
they assembled in great numbers, to 'open the coffer, and offer
up thanks to God. · . .
They found, }O tl1eir great disappointment, that the coffer waa
filled with large pieces Qf slates, beautifully engraved with the
figures of Geometry and Arithmetic. At this, the Fathers' in-
.dignation rose, and they were about to remove his .body froQl
their walls; but the Parliament being informed of this inhumanity,.
obliged the Jacobins, by an arret, to leave the deceased undis-
turbed, in the honourable sepulchre of the cloisters of their
vent.
The famous English poet, Geoffrey Chaucer, translated the
Rm:nance of the Rose into English verse; it is printed in foliQ;
hi& works. ·
&c Tkevet's Lives of lllust1'ious Men.
o1git1zed by Coogle
Live8 of the .A.dept1.
PETER BONO.
THIS adept, born in Lombardy, was an inhabitant or Pols,
t' seaport of !stria, where he says he made the much desired
transmuting metal of the sages, in the year 1330, and wrote
a complete treatise on the art which he published. Lacinius, a
.monk of Calabria, bas printed a faithful abridgment of it.
-lee Bihliot/leca Chemica Curiosa, 2v,fol. Colog.ne, 1702.
'I'HE MONK FERARIUS.
ADotrr the beginning of the fourteenth century, this Italiea
artist gaTe to the world two treatises ; the Qf the PhilosO-
plur's SWne; and the second, The Treasure of Philosophy.
They are printed in the Tlleatnua Cllemf,cum, CS wts. Svo.
&rtUI»trgk, 1661.
FLAMEL.
NICHOLAS FLAMEL was born at Pontoise, in the time or
Philip, whose t·eign commenced in 1328. His parents were
poor, and left him little more than the house in Paris, which
he continued to possess till his death : he bequeathed it to the
Church : it stands in the Notary-street, at the corner of Mari-
vaux.-street, opposite the door of $t. James's church, which is
called the Marivaux door, from the name of the street.
Flamel's father had not the means of giving him much edu-
cation. He earned a livelihood at Paris, as a scrivener, copying
deeds and writings in Latin or French. In his time, the business
of copying books employed a numerous cla.iS of persons, as
printing was not then invented. 1
It from Flamel's will, in w·hich he ii entitled a scrive-
ner, that his riches never made him change his profession. He
shewed a good natural genius, by his proficiency in painting
and poetry, as well as liis acknowledged ability .in chemistry.
Towards the year 1357, he bec;tme an Hermetic student, the
manner of which is best told in his own words.
" The Lord God of my life, who exalts the humble in spirit
out of the most abject dust, and makes the heal'ts of such as hope
in him to rejoice, be eternally praised.
o1git1zed by Coogle
J
Nicholas 31
\Vho, of his own grace, reveals to the believing souls, the
springs of liis bounty, and &ubjugates under their feet the
of all earthly felicities and glories.
In him let u& always put our confidence ; in his fear let ns
place our happiness; and in his mercy, the hope and glory of
restoration from our fallen state :
And in our supplications to him, let us demonstrate, or
shew forth, a faith unfeigned and stable, an assurance, that ahall
11ot iOr ever be shaken.
And thou, 0 Lord God Almighty, as thou, out of thy in.
finite and moat desirable goodness, nast condescended to open
tbe earth, and unlock thy treMures unto me, thy poor and un•
worthy servant, and has given into my possession the fom1tains
and well-springs of all the treasures and riches of this world.
So. 0 Lord Ood, out of thme abundant kindness, extend
thy tnercies unto me, that when I shall cease to be any longer
in the land o( the living, thou ·mayst open unto me the celestial
riches, the divine ·treasures, and give me a part or portion ia
the heaveoli inheritance tOr eva·, .
Where may behold thy divine and the fullness of
thy Heavenly Majesty, a pleasure so meffable, and a joy so ra-
vishing, which no mortal man can express or conceive.
This I entreat of thee, 0 Lord, for our Lord Jesus Christ
thy well-helmed Son's sake, who, in the unity of the Hol1
Spirit, liveth with thee, world without end. Amm.
I, NieiUJlas Flamel, Scrivener, liTing at Paris, Anno 1899,
in the nenr S. James, of the Bouclzery, though I
leamed not ltl1leh Latin, because of the poorness and meanness
·of my parents, who notwithstanding were (by them that envy me
-.nost) accounted honest and good people. ·
Yet, by the blessing of God, I have not wanted an nnder-
tltamting of the books of the philosophers, but learned them,
and attained to a certain kind of knowledge, even of their hid'-
clen 8eCI'ets.
For which cause there shall :not any moment of my
ml life J>888t wherein remembering this so vast a good, I
'Will not on my bue knees, if the place will permit of i4
or otherwise in my heart, with aM: the intireness of my af-
fections, render thanks to this my most good and gracious
Ood:
'Who never fonakes the righteous generation, or sufFers the
ehildren of the just to beg their bread ; nor deceives their ex-
but supp<1rts them with blessings who put their trust
m him. ·
' After the death of my parents, I, Nickolas Flame!, got my
r"ing by the art of writing, ingrossing inventories, making up
acce1mts, keeping of books, and the like.
In this course of living, there ·fell by chance into my hantls
a gilded very old IDd large, which 096t me only
Jlorens1 · - · ·- ·
D1g1tized by Coogle
Lives of the Adepts.
It wao not made of paper or parchment, as other books
¢mjrable rinds (as it seemed to me) of young trees.
'11te cover of it was of brass ; it was well bound, aud graven all
over with a strange kind of letters, which I take to be Greek clta-
racters, or some such like.
· This I know, that I could not read them, nor were they either
Latin or French letters or words, of which I .understand some-
. . . . ·
But as t<? the matter which was written within, it was engraven
(as I suppose) with an irotJ pencil or graver upon the said baric
<;lone admirably well, a.nd in fair and neat Latin letters,
and curiously coloured. ·
, It contained thrice seven leaves, for so they we:tte numbered in
the of each folio • and every seventh leaf was without any
writing; but in place thereof, there were several images or
· ·figures pai_nted. .
. Upon the first seventh leaf was depicted, 1. A
2. Serpents swa?lowing her up. On the second seventh, A Ser-.
pent crucified. And on the last seventh, A Desert or Wilder-
ness ; in midst whereof was seen many fi.tir fountains, from
issued out a number of set·pents here and there.
Upon the first qf the leaves was written, in car>ital letters of
gold, ·Abraham tlze Jew, Prince, Priest, Levite, Astrologer and
Philf?sopher,. to the Nation of tke Jews. di;persed b!J tke wratlz qf
God in wislleth health.
'After which words, it was filled with manv execrations .and
curses, with 'this word MARANATHA, which oft repeated,
,against any one that should look into it to unfold it, except he
.were either Priest or Scribe. ·
· .The person that sold me this book, was ignorant of its woithf
.as well as I who bought it. I judge it might have been stolen
from some of the Jewish nation, or else found in some place
.where.they anciently abode. . .
In the second leqf of the book, he consoled his nation, and
gave them pions counsel, to tum from their wickedness and evil
.ways; above all to flee from Idolatrg, .and to wait in patience
tor the coming of the Messiah, who, conquering all the king&
and PPtentates of the earth, should x:eign in glory with his peo-
ple to Without doubt, this was a very pious, 'Yise, and
understanding man."
" In the third leqf, and in all the writings that followed, he
.taught then1, in plain words, the transmutation of metals, to
the. <;nd .that he might help and assist; his dispersed people, to-
pay their tributes to the Roman Emperors, and other
things .not needful here to be repeated.
. He painted the vessels by the sides or margin of the leaves,
and discovered all the colours as they should arise or
with all the of the wo1·k.
o1git1zed by Coogle
Flamel.
But of the prima materia, or first matter or he· spa'ke
not so much ns one word : but only he told them, ·that in the
fourth and fifth leaves, he had entirely painted .or decyphered
it, and deJ?icted or figured it, with admirable ,dexterity and
workmanship. ·
Now, it was singularly well, and materially or intel·
ligibly figured and painted, yet by that could no man ever have
been able to understand it, without having been well skilled in
their Cabala, which is a series of old traditions, and also to
have been well studied their books.
The fourth and .fifth leqf thereof was without any writing,
but full of figures, bright and sl1ining, or as it were en-
lightened, and very exquisitely depicted. ·
First, there was a young man painted, with wings at lzis ancles,
having in his hand a Caduceatz rod, writhen about with two
serpents, wherewith he stroke upon an helmet covered with ita
head.
This seemed in my mean apprehension, to be one of the hea-
then Gods, 'viz. Me1·cu1y : against him there came running and
flying with open wings, a great old man, with an hour-glass
fixed upon his ht>ad, and· a scythe in his· hands, like Death,
with which he would (as it were in indignation) have cut off the
·feet of Me1·cury. • ·
On the other side of the fourth leaf, he painted a fair .flower;
on the top of a 'Oe'I"!J high mountain, which was very much shaken
with the north wind. Its foot-stalk was blue, flowers white
and red, and its leaves shining like fine gold ; and round about
it tho dragons and griffins of' the north made their nests and
habitations. : ·•
On the fifth leaf was a fair rose t1·ee .flowe1·ed, in the midst
of a garden, growing up · against ·a hollow 'oak, ·at the foot
whereof bubbled forth a fountain of pure white water, which
ran headlong down into the depths below. . •
·Yet it passed through the hands of a great number of people,
who digged in the earth, after it; but by reason of theit"
blindness none of them knew It, except a very few, who con-
sidered its weight. · .
On the last side of the fifth leaf was depicted a king, with a
faulckion, who caused .his soldiers to slay before him many in-
fonts, the mothers standing by, and weeping at the feet of their
murderers.
· These infants' bl90d being gathered up by other soldiers,
was put into a great \'esse) wherein Sol and Luna came to bathe
themselves. · ·
·And because· this history seemed to represent the destruction
of the Innocents by Herod, and that I learned the chiefest part
of the art in this 'book; therefore I placed in their church-yard
these Hieroglyphic figures, of this learning. Thus b.ayc yol.l
that which wa» iQ the fir•t five leaTC6.
E
..
Li'Dcs of the Adepts.
As for wltat was in all the rest of the written leaves, whicla
was wrote in good and intelligible Latin, I must conceal,
God being offended with me, should send his plagues and judg-
ments upon me. It would be a wickedness m'lH'h greater, than
he who wished that all men in the world had but one llead, ...
that he might cut it off at one blow.
Having thus obtained this delicate and precious book, I did
nothing else, day and night, but study upon it; conceiving very
well all the operations it pointed forth, but wholly ignorant of
the prima materia with which I should begin, which made
sad and discontented.
My wife, whoae name was PerretJelle, whom I Joved equally
with myself, arid had but lately married, was mightily concerned
fol' me, and with many words comforting me, earuestly desired
to know how she might deliver me from this trouble. ·
I could no lon"er keep counsel, but told her all, shewing her
the very book, wgich, when she saw, she became as "ell pleased
with it as myself, and with great delight beheld the admirable
cover, the engl'aving, the images, and exquisite figures therooG,
but understood as little of them as I.
Yet it was matter of consolation to me to discourse, anc.l en-.
-
tert.Rin myself w.ith her, and to think what we should: do, to find
out the interpretation and meaning thereof. ·
At rcaused to be painted within my chamber, as.IJUtcb
to the lire or original, as I could, all the images and figures ol
the said fourth and fifth leaves.
These I shewed to the greatest scholars and most learned
ia Paris, who understood thereof no morethan myself: ltold.
them they were found in a book which taught the philoeoph.em'
stone. · .
But the greateet part of t.hem made a mock hEKh of me, and/.
that most exoellent secret, except one, whose name was A1uelme•
a practiser of physic, and a. deep student in this art. .
He mUc:h de.ired to see my book, which be valued more thatt
ftny thing else in the world, but I always refused him; oilly.made,
him a large demonstration of the method.. : , .
He told me that 'the first figure represented Time,. which d&!-1!
vours all things ; and that according to .the number of the six
written leaves, there was required a space of aix year• to perfect.
the stone; and then, said he, we must tum the gllllllJ.and see.
no more.' . . .
I told him this was not painted, but only to shew the·teachett
the prima materia, or }i1·st agent, as was mitten ia the book"
He answered me, that' this digestion for six years, was aa
a. second agent; and that certainly the. fii'Bt agent waa ttire paint-
ed, which was the wkite and ktllV!J.'Water. ,
This, without doubt, was Argent Y'i'rte, which they could
fix, i.e. cut off his feet, or take away his. volatility, aaw b1 .
...
tong digcstiou pute bhxM! (){ J'OUUB
by Coogle
Flamel.
·por in ihAt this Argmt PiT.Je being joined with Sol and Luna,
•as first turned with them into a plant, like that there painted,
.and afterwards by corruption into terpents, which serpents being
perfectly dryed and digested, were made a fine powder of gold,
which is the stone.' . ·
This strange or foreign discourse to the matter, was tbe cause
my erring, and that made me wander for the !!pace! of one
and twenty years in a perrect meander from the verity; in which
'J>Ilce of time I went through a thousand labyrinths or
but all in vain ; yet never with the blood of infants, fur that l
acoounted wicked and villainous. . . .
For I found in my book, that the philosophers called hlood
the mineral spirit, which is in the metals, chiefly in Sol, Lttna,
and Met·cwy, to which sense I always in my own judgment as.:.
sent<..>d ; yet these interpretations fur the most part were not more
1ubtle than true.
Not finding therefore in my operation or course of the process,
1 the signs, at the time written in my book, I was to begin
again.
In the end, having lqst all hope of ever understanding those
#!f1nholo; or jiglt.re1, I made a vow to God, to demand their inter-
pretation of.some Jewish priest, belonging to some synagogue in
Spain. ·
Whereupon, with the consent of my wife Perrmelle, carrying
1ritb me the extract or copy of the jt'gures or pictures, I took
up a pilgrim's habit and staff, in the same manner ns you see met
igured without the said arch, in the aaid church-yard, in which
I put these Hieroglyphic figures.
Whereupon also I have set on the wall, on both hands, the
process, representing in order all ·the colours of the ·stone, as
Iiley arise away
This is, aa 1t were, the very beginning of Hm-uleb. book,
entitled h ·1s, or the Rainbow, which treats of the stone, in these
words : The process qf tlze 'WOrk is V1!1:J pleasing unto nature. ·
And these words I also put there expressly, for the sak& of
great scholars and learned men, who may understand to what
they allude.
In this same manner, I say, I put myself upon my journey
to Spain, and 8.) much -I did, that I in a short time arrived at
Mmmtjoy, and n while after at S. James, where, with mucl_l de,·o-
&ion I accomplished my vow. ·
This done, in Leon, I, at my with a of
Boulo{!ne, who acquainted a M.
Cancl1.es, a Jt!'W by nation, but now a Cnrzst•an, .dwellmg at Leon
aforesaid. · ·
I shewed him the extraCt or copy of my figures, by
.he W&St as it were, ravished with great astonil!hment nnd Joy,
he desired immediately, if I could tell him any netrli of the book
nom whence they were drawn.
by Coogle
36 Li'Oes of .Adepts.
I answered him in Latin (in which language he aaked me the
question) that I doubted not of obtaining the sight of the book,
if I could meet with any one who could unfold the anigums.--
Hearing this, and being transported with great earm.'s1ucss and
joy ; he began to decipher unto me the : to be short,
he was much pleased, that he was in hopes to bear tidings of .
the book ; and I as much pleased to hear him and inter-
pret it. And, doubtless, he had heard much talk of the book ;
but it was, as he said, of a thing which was believe(.) to be utterly
lost: Upon this we resolved for our voyage, and from Leon we
passed to Oviedo, and from thence to Sanson, where we took
shipping, and went to sea, in order to go into France.
Our voyage was prosperous and happy ; and being arrived in
the kingdom of France,. he most truly interpreted unto me the
greates.t part of my in which, even to the points aml
pricks, he could decypher great mysteries which were admirable
to me. Having attained Orleans, this learned man fell sick,
even to death, being afflicted with extreme vomitiugs, which still
continued with him, as being first caused by his sea-sickness :
Notwithstanding which, he was in continual fear, lest I should
leave ·or forsake him, which was a great trouble to him. And.
although I was continually by his side, yet h.e would be almofJt
always for me. At the end of the seventh day of his ·
sickness he d1ed, .which was no small grief to me; and I buried
as well as my present condition would permit me, in a
church at Orleans. ,
· He that would see the manner of my arrival, and the joy of
Perrenelle, let him look upon q!l two, in the city of.Paris, upon
the door of the chapel of James of the Bpuche?y, close by tl1e
one side of my house, where we are both painted, kneeling, and
givinf thanks to God. For throug}l the of God it wu
that attained the perfect of all that l desired.
Well I I had now the prima materia, the first principles,
yet not their first prepa,.ation, is a thing most difficult,
above all other things in the world : but in the end I had that
also, after a long aberration, and in a labyrinth of
, errors, for the space of three years, or thereabouts, during
which time I did nothing but study and search, and labour, so
as you sec me depicted without this·at·clz, where I have placed my ,
praying also coptinually \!IltO God, and reading atten-
tively in my book, pondering the words of the philosophers,
and then trying and proving the various operations, whkh I
thought to myself they might mean by their words. At length
l found that which I which l also soon knew by·the
scent and odour thereof: Having this, I easily accomplished the.
magistery. . :For the prepar·ations of the p1·ime agents,
and then literally followmg tl)e directions in my book, l could
not then p1il;s the work if I would.
D1g1tized by Coogle
Flatntl.
. Having attained thjs, I come now to projection ; nnd the first
time I made projection was upon Mercury, a pound and a half
whereof, ,or thereabouts, I turned intG pure silver, better than
that of the mine, as I proved by assaying of it myself, and nlsd
causing others to assay it for me several times. This was done
in the year of Our Lord 1382, Januar!Jl7, about noon, being
in my own house, Perrenelle only being present. _
Again, following exactly the directions in my hook, literally,
and word by word, I made projection of the red stone, on the
like quantity of Mercury, Perrenelle only being present, and itt
the same house; which was done in the same year of our
viz. 1382, April '25, at five in the afternoon. This Me·rcury I
truly transmuted into almost much gold, much better, indeed
than common go)d, IJJ.Ore soft also, and more pliable. -
I it in all truth, I have made it three times, with the
help of Perrenelle, who understood it llS well as myself, because
she assisted me . in my operations : And.without doubt, if she
wowd have indeed done .it alone, she would have brought the
work to the same, or full as great perfection as I had donet I
lwd truly enough when I had once done it; but I found exceed-
ing great pleasure and delight in seeing and contemplating tke
_
admirable 'I.IJQrks o/ Natu.re within .vessels. And to to
you that I had then done it three times, I caused to be depicted
under the same arclt, three furnnces, like to those which serve
for the operations of this work.
. I was n;mch concerned for a long time, lest that
by reason of extreme joy, should not hide her felicity, which
1 measured by my pwn, and lest she should let fall some words
among her relations,. conceming the great treasure which we
possessed• For ru1 of joy takes away the understand-
ing, as well as an extremity of grief and sorrow : But the good-
ness of 'the most great God had not only given and filled me
with this blessing, to give me a sober and chaste wife, but she
was also a wise and prudent woman, not only capable of reason,
but also to do what was reasonable, and was more discreet and
than ordinarily other women are. Above aU, she was
religious and devout: And therefore seeing herself
without hope of children, and uow well stricken in years, she
made it l1er as I did, to think of God, and to give
ourselves to the works of cl1nrity and mercj·.
Befol'e the time wherein I wrote this discourse, which was at
the latter end of the year of Our Lord 1413, after the death
of my faithful companion, whose death I cannot but lament all
the days of my life : She and I had already founded, and en-
dowed with revenues, fourteen hospitals, three cl1apels, and
.seven churches, in the city of Paris, all which we had new built
from the ground, a.nd enriched with groot gifts and revenues,
with many reparations in their church-yards. We also have
done at Buulogne about W3 .IUuch as we have done at : not
·o1git1zed by Coogle
Livts of tile .AdepU
to speak o( the charitable acts·which we both did to particular
poor people, principally to poor widows and orphans ; whose
names should I divulge, with the largeness of the charity, and
the way an<l manner of doing it, as my reward would then ·be
.,nly in this world, so neither could it be pleasing to the per-
toils to whom we did it.
Building therefore these hospitals, chapels, churches, and
tburch-ym:ds in this city, I caused to be depicted under the
eaid fourth arch, the most true and essential marks or signs
of.this yet under veils, types, and covertures,
.in imitation of those things which are contained in the gilded
book of Abraham the Jew : Demonstrating to the wise, and
.tnen of understanding, the direct abd perfect way of operation,
and -lineary work of the philosophers' stone. Which being
perfected by any one, takes away from him the root of all sin
6nd evil, which is covetousness, ·changing his evil into good, and
Jnaking him liberal, rourteous, religious, devout, and fearing
God, however wicked he was before. FOF &om thenceforward
he is continually ravished with the goodness of God, and witb
llis grace and mercy, wh_ich he has obtained from.
of Eternal Goodness ; ·w1th the profoundness of h1s diVIne and
adorable power, and with the consideration of his admirable·
,orks." ·
The evidence of these things remained in according to
il\e te!ltimony of Langlet du. Fresnoy: first in the cemetery of
ihe Holy Innocents, where .he built an arch on the side of St.
Denis-street. Here were to be seen the hierog1yphic figuresf on
which he wrote a commentary, or explanation. Without the
arch at the side of the cemetary, in the two niches, were the
statues of St. James and St. John; and below that of St. John
was the figure of Flame!, reading in a book, with aGothic
N. F. to mark his name ; but the progression of the colours,
in the order of the process, which he represented on the wall,
•asthen effaced. ·
In the same cemetery, appeared a charnel-house, or vaulted
arch, as a receptacle for the skulls or bones thrown up in dig-
ging new graves. Upon one of -the pillars of this chame.J..
there was a Gothic N. F. with this inscription :
Ce ell.arnier .fot fait donne a l'Eglisef
Pour !'amour de Dieu, l'an. 1899.
The second of these evidences, was upon the Marivaux door,
of the church of St. James, at the Boucherie, where the figure
of Flamel, was on the left 11ide in entering, kneeling at the
feet of St. Jacques; and beneath was a Gothic N. The figura
of Perrenelle was at the other side, kneeling at the feet of St•
•John, with a Gothic P. On· the middle waa an ima&e f!i
The Virgi.u.
o1git1zed by Coogle
Flamel.
"The third was iJI the street of Notre Dame, tt the portal of
Genevieve, of Arden; called in Flamel's testament Little Ge-
nevieve. There his statue was kneeling in a niche, with a
desk at hil iide, looking towards St. James, and a Gothic
N. F. below, at,the right. At the foot was written: Thit
Portal built in.1402,· by the alms of many." By which incrip-
f,ion Flame! concealed that he was the principal donor.
The fourth remai.ns of antiquity, was in the street of the Ce-
metary of St..Nicholas of the .Fields, neu St. Mllrtin':Htreet'
where, from both sidt.'ll, there was a wall of cut stoae, whic4
was uotinisbed on. tl1e left side. It ·was intended for all
lwipital. There were many figures engrawen in the stone, ·
a Gothic N. F. on each side. J.'be right· side is dated 1+07.
Flamel, thus piously empleyeq in b.Midmg churchee, with the /
Feat tl'easu.res .which he so legitimately thought he ·
Ud not done ·lllougb, 'Without leaviag to posterity, the mean•
of acquiL'ing the same. He. first wraw his Su11Uifmy of Pkilo-
IDplly, ia ./lrenck after the example of the H.omance of
tJle Rose, .which was. then much in vogue. Four after, U.
1413, he Wl'ote the Comment on the Hierogliphies, which he
1.1 in an arch in the public street, a&; the chw-ch-yard
.C thelnnocents. _
near the end of his life, and having no chiJ,. .
dren, he chose his burial-place in hill parish church of St. Jamet
.C the Boooherie, before the erucifix ; by a cootract that he
with the wardens of this chun:h, of which he makes men•
t,iQn in his testament. He then disposed of his property an<l
to the church and the poor; as may be seen in his will,
whid1 is lodged in the arcltives ,of St. James of the Boucherie,;
lt is dared the November, 1416, and begiQS thus: "To
aU those to whom .theee preeent letters saall come, I, Annegn7
au Castel, chevalier, coumellor chatnbellan of the King, ·
Sire , keeper of the prevot of Paris, greeting; Know ye, that
bei>re Hugues de la Ban-e, and Jean de Ia Noo, notary clerlut
of the king, at the chatelet, was established personally, Nicho-
Jas scrivener, aound in body and mind, speaking clearly.,
with pxi and true UDderstaoding," &c. It is four sheets Of
parchment,. whi<:h are sewed, one to the end of the other, like
Abe rolls or volumes of .ancient writing. It contains thirty-four
articles ; in .the twentieth, he bequeaths to his relations the su"'-
pi forty livres. He lived but three years after making this will.
The preface .to his book on the HieroglyphiCi, is the last of hiJ
tnitings, and is dated 1419.
Flamel .made projection in the {>resence of PerrenelJe, in
l-889; btit there is a .document of a· transaction which Passed
between Perrenelle, her sister Isabella, and Flamel; dated 11tb
lS97, which is lodged in the archives·of St. James of
1l:ae BoQcherie. by which the date of Perrenelle's death is so fur
Uit that year, au4 .r
o1git1zed by Coogle
Lives of the Adepts.
•
his boo'k, 1418, in which he deplorc11 her loss. A tleed was
made by the executors of Perrenelle, his wife, the 2d of April;
1419, in which there are these words, "The late Perrenelle, wife
of the late Nicholas Flamel." There is a great appearance, from
this circumstance, that he died in March, 1419; and it il! very
likely that the deed was made shortly after llis death, because
he was one of the testamentary executors of his wife ; and ti·om
the date of his preface, he was living in U 19.
. Thus, the death of Perrenelle may be placed in the year
1413, Wld the de11th of Flamel in 1419. ·
The argwncnt of Flamcl's munificence, in prot>f of the Her-
metic science, has been contested by Gabriel Naude, who was
bookseller to Cardinal Mazarin, and wrote with some ability
against the Invisible Rosicrusian brotherhood ; and nkJo, " An
.Apology for Great Men suspected of Magic." He asserts
Flamel managed alfairs for the Jews, and upon ·their banishment
from the kingdom of France, and the confiscation of their pro-
perty for the King, he, knowing the sums due by several indi-
Yiduals, compromised, by receiving a part, w-hich they paid him, ·
to prevent his giving information, which would oblige them to
pay the entire to the public officer. The riches acquired by
this artifice, were concealed by his pretention to Alchemy; and·
agreeable to the devotion of the times, to expiate his sin, he
built some ,churches and hospitals. ·
The testimony of Naudc is considerable, as it supposes the
fact of Flamel's riches incontestible; and it goes
J>roving his profession, as well as his existence; ·for Naude
.relates, that he saw at Rome, in the library of Cardinal Bnguy,
.1;1 copy of the Romance of the Rose, written in Flamcl's own
hand. But tl1e explanation Naude gives of the source of Fla-
.mel's riches, is an unfounded assertion. If we carefully ex-
llmine history, there were three expulsions of the Jews from
:France, between 1300 and 14-'20. They were banished in 1308;
soon after allowed to return ;. and were banished again
in 1320; ··this was before l!'lamel's birth. The Jews were re-
.established by CharleS V. in and they remainod in quiet
·until the riots in Paris, in 1380, at the beginning of the
of Charles VI. when the people rose against the .fews, commtt:-
ted great outrages, ·and demanded their expulsion ; hut the se-
dition was quclhl, and the Jews protected, until, in·139!, upon
acvcral charges brought them, they were enjoined to
l}Uit France, or become Christians. The historian, Mezaray,
anys, t.hat some C!f them chose rather to quit their religion
the kingdom; others sold their goods, and retired. Thus, it
appears, that the only expulsion of the Jews that could agree
with Naude's surmise, was without the confiscation of their pro-
perty, and therefore could not give Flainel the opportunity
.if imked it reasonable to suppose that all the
. ; ..... .
o1git1zed by Coogle
.·· Nicholas Flamel.
Jews entrusted tht>ir affairs .to one · · it does not aJ?"
pear that any necessity required such an agency.
···It is therefot-e untrue, that ·l<,Jamel was enriched by the Pt'O;'-
perty of the Jews, or that th0$e who owed them money, comi.
pounded with flamel, lest he should .denounce them to
k'. . . ; ;.;
. . d h ' f Fl ' 1 . ' .
e SUJ)p•lCity an onesty o arne, appears, m P:\'erJ
line he to col)vince us of his · · · · :
Notwithata:tuling the secrecy of Ftamel and Perrenelle, the
report of their cliarities the ; and the Hieroglyo.
phies were not fQrgotten, which, to some of the· ap•-
peared Hermetical. Charles ¥1. re}gned fron1 iSSO, to· his
death, in 1+22. · He was naturaHy a good prjnce, but griev-
ously afBicted in health. He thought the .reports respecting
FlllDll'l so important, that ·be sent a confidenti;a{ person,
Mtister of the Requests. to enquire into it. Thi!l
magistrate went to the philosopher's house·; h,e found there no
appearance of affiuence; a beechen platter, .eonta'ining boiled
greens, ·was placed on a stool ; Flamel sat on ·one side, Perre-
nelle on the ()ther, enjoying their humble and sclf-dcnying re-
past. These evidences were convincing to the courtier, and he
reported to th.e Kiag, that Flamel was rea.lly indigent. He
t'hen remained in peace, and proceeded without further inter-
ruption ift his munificent works·of charity. · · ·
Flamel a quantity of powder to Perrenelle's
nephew, M. Perrier; from it descended to Dr.11errier, and
was found among the doctor's papers, at his by his
grandson, Dubois. ' The prudence and modera.rion that accom'-
panied the gift to tl1e Perriers, not font:td -in Dubois : he
exhibited the sacred miracle to improper pc.rsons, and was
brought before Louis XIII. in whose presence he made gold of
base metal_, and this gold, ·
.in the cupel, ·augmented in weight.
The consequence of all this patriotic generosity was, an infa-
mous death. His·vanity was equal t9 his' imprudence; he fan-
cied he could make, or augment the powder, and promised to
do so, but did not succeed. · · · · · ·
I.t is probable that he was suspected of withholding the art
nom the King, a circum8tance suffiCient in politics, to justify
measures; lest the·possessor of the sinews of war should
go over to t\l'e enemv. · · · ·
Whatever were t'e chaTge3·agnins.t Dubois, he was hanged ;
and ·his fate should be a proof, that a science, producing un-
bountled power in riches, is the ·greatest to all those
and unprepared to the dangerous
w1th discretion. · · · · · · · ·
· As completion to it be ·entertaining to
reeite a very .curious ·acoount, given ·by Paul Lticas, ·of an ad:.
he had in the East; where he travelled· by :ordet of the
King-of·¥ranee, Loui1 X:IV. ·to whom he dedicated his :book;
I'
o1git1zed by Coogle
Li1Je1 {')! t1u .Adepts,
;,hiqh shoQ}d ther,fore be auth.
entic. " I was at in
Natolia, and going to take the air with a person of distinctipn•
to a little mosque, whic,h was o.dorned with gardens an<l
fountain;o, for a public walk; we were quickly introduced intO a
.cloister, where we found folll' dervises, who received us with.
all imaginable -civility, and desired us to partake ot what they
weJ;'e eating, We wt>r.e told, what we soon found to .be true,
that they were all persons of' the worth a11d learning;
tOne .of them, whSt said he was 9f Usbec TarUlry, appeared to
.be Jilore .learned than the rest, and I believe he·spoke al1
prjncipal of the worJd. After we had conversed ·
jn Turkish, pe aaked if I could .Spa,nish, or
l told him, if he pleased, to 11pCak to me in Italian ;-but he
,oon discovered, by my that it was not my mother
tongue; and asked me frankly, wh.t f.Quntry I came from? All
,eoon ashe lmew that I \vas a native of France, he &poke to me
;in as good French as if he had been brought up at Pa.rig. ' How
Jong, Sii,' Slli<) I, ' yqu stay in France?' He· replied,
neyer been there, but that he had a great incliP.atiop to
undertak.e the journey.
, ·"' I did in pty power to strengthen that resolution, to
hip! that France the nursery of the W$l'q.ed, ancJ
the King a patron of the scie.q.ces, who defrayed the of .
my travels, for collecting noticea of antiquities, drawings of
correcting maps, and making a collection of an-
coins, &c.; all which he seerq.ed to approve,
pqt C?f pure .civility. Our .ended, the qer-
, .vi$e!! us to their house, the foot of the mountain,
where, hayio,g drank coffee, I took my leave, but with a p,:oo-
that .I wquld shortly come and see them
the lOth, the whom I took for an came
to pay me a . I shewed .him. aU the man!Jscripts I iuuJ
}?ought, and he assured me they were very yaluable,
by He was a Ii11m f!very \yay ir.-_
in external appearance he seemed· .-.a be aboll.:.
thirty yearr; old; · from hi't I -was ll,e
h_a.d Jive<} a century. , . .
. He tqld me he W¥. poe of friends, whq .U.
}>erfect their sttt,dies, every twenty yea,Ts, met in a plaee
previously appointed. I perceived that B.1·ow;sa was .the place
pf their mcctillg, and foar of had
.Rf/Jigiop, ;md l}atural too{t up <»Jf by
- .t;prns; apd at 14St w,e fell \lpon ,cqel}listry, 1\lOO,e.my, tJa.
•.. tqld· h,irq. all these, and phij.qsqpQ.etT
stone, were regarded by most men of sense 8.$ . .
, rop!ied ' ·J19L •.YPllJ .. Mtge
the. without being sho4ed, but
hl, to th,c !iQDle level,, _
W:heA I
pf .J oqe li'C$
o1git1zed by Coogle
Thomm Norton.
witllOut concern : . he .has more riches in his power than the
greatest king, but lives temperately, above the power of events.•
" Here 1 stopped him, ' With all these fine maxims, .the
sage dies as other ' Alas I' said he, ' 1
)•ou are unacquainted w.itli sublime science. Such a one as I ·de-
scribe, dies indeed, for death is inevitable, but he does not die
before the .utmost limit& of his mortal existence. Hercditarj
. disease arid weakness the life of man, but the_ 1Jt
the use of the true medtcme, can wnrd off whatever may Iunder
pr intpair ihe animal function'l for a thousand years.' ·
" SurprJsed at all I heard, ' And would you persuade me:
said I,·(that all who possessed the philosophers' stone, have lived
a thousand years.' He·replied gravely, ' WithQut dottbt everj
one might ; it depends entirely pn themselves.' · At la5t I toc't
the liberty of naming the. celebrated Flamel, who it 'Was said,
the stone, but was dead. He smiled at
i;Jiy. said, an .air of mirth, . ' you.
my F1amel1s hvmg
ne'iiiier be not hts wtfe are deaid ; It ts _
ll(>t above. ihree years
siqce- I left both the one and the other in the Indies ; he is
ot':my best friends!' ,Upon which he told me the history of
as he heard it from the· same as I bad read in·
'biS ·\x)Qk ; 1 until· at last, ;when C?arles who was ihtm upon
fbc throne, M. Cramoisi1 a master of
requests, to enqwre from F1amel the ortgm of hiS riches, he saw
flt dlp)ger in; aad spread a
p( h1s W'tfC:s death; havmg sent her mto to Walt
!lle.tf!.. htm, he had her funeral celebrated; and m a yeaq
fle ora'erCd his own oofti'n to be interred; . Since that time
have both lived a philosophic lire, in one
try, sometimes in anotltcr.' '!'his is the true history, aud not
what is· believed at Paris, where there are 'Very few who ev.-
tlze least glimpse of true "·isdom. ·
· See Lucas's TraTels, yot 1; p. 79; for Dubois, .ee
rei's Gallic'Antiquities, · ·· ·.
THOMAS ·NORTON.
ftrst syflables, of the preface, and of the six first chapter$
'the Orditlfll-,qf Alckerny, with the· first line of the sevemb,
discovers mwn)'mous to be · ·
·Tomais Norton, qf Briseto,
. pa1fet ma.ster 91 tnaie lzjm. lrtt'tit.
Lives of tlu Adepts•
.. wrote in 14-77. John Pitts, in De illustr. Angl.
page 666. and John Bale De Scrjl,t Br. Gent. 2 fol. 67, write
11lrnt this Thomas Norton was Alclzemfsta S1P) tempore ·peri
tissimus !. • . ,.. , .
·Norton relates, that he .obtained ,_the knowledge of .alchemys-
try, from an adept. . He describes him, possessed of a noble
3nind, worthy of all praise,. loving justice, abhorring fraud ;
4ocrct in the midst of talkative company; unassuming; and es-
pecially when the conversation turned on alchemy, he said no-
thing on the subject. him, Norton applied for a consider-
able time, in vain ;. the adept proved him by trials, .and
at length being satisfied of his disposition, manners, habits, and
strength of mind, his love yielded to Norton's fidelity, and in
:8llliwcr to one ofl1is letters, he as follo'Ys : . ,
·" My trusty and well beloved brother, .
: '' I shall tlpt 'any longer delay;, the time is come; you .shali
t-eccivc this. grace ; honest desire, and approved virtue;
your:love, tl'uth, \\•lsdol!4 and long perseverance, shall
sorr?'vful desires. · .· · . . . . .
...,, It IS necessary, .th;;tt, as soon as ·convement, we to-
gether, face' to fa:ce, lest I should, ·by ,triting, bett.ay my
i will mAke yott my and this art; as I am settink
to travel .in fcn·e1gn countries. Gxvc thanks to God; who,
next to bili spiritual .servants, the .sons .of thJs sacred
science." ' .
·Norton lost no time in pursurng· the jourriey, upwards-of one
miles, on ·horseback; to abode ·of the ·adept ; artd
he continued forty days, receiving the advice directions
of his friend. . ' ' : .
·.· T-Ie was hi.,hly prepared by previous stUdy, riot only 1h tlu;
of prevailed at,the time, but. in most
occult and curwus-sciCnces. He was · now fitlly satisfied m th•
disclosure of 'tile bonds qf natu1·e,' whi'ch convinced him of the
truth and certainty of the art, by the reasonnblcneas of it, and
Jw:.ha,d4no do'ubt At but·t'Wml!J•
eight years old, which the adept \VheQ. refu11ing to teac4
the proce8s from the white to the red powder, lest his youthful
passions might misuse so great a gift; but .in time, after
iitrther proofs of his capacity and prudence, he communicated
the work of.the medieinal 11tone.
The chemical operations of Norton met with two signal disap-
pointments: he hap nearly perfected t'1e tincture, when his
servant,' who l\·as employed about . the furnace, supposing the .
prize wus complete;· carried it away• .He repeated the process
again, and mude the elixir ; but it was taken from· hini by the
wife of William Canning, Ml\yor · of who built the
splendid church and ·lofty steeple of St. Mary's, Radtliff, and
augmented the collt>ge of Westbury, l}ear J3ri&toL
o1git1zed by Coogle
Thomas Dalton.
It is·doubtful whether Norton attained to enjoy the. of
l1is knowledge, as he does not speak of his o\vn trnnimutations.
His tinnily Jived inl1igh respect under King Henry VIII. There
were nine brothers of the nume of Norton, all of them
The tomb of Sir. Sampson Norton, nt Fulham church, near
London, was adorned.with Hermetic jJnintings; he mastet:
of onluance to the Kiug, and died in 1517. . . . 1
·
. Samuel Norton, the autl10r of several nlchemical 'books,
quotes Thomas Norton, and speaks of his own greilt ·
father, as an alchcmi11t; that he comma'nded, of
with glass to be used, when distilling a perilous volrztz7,
papour, that the breathing mny be drawn by a tube from below;
This direction is given by Thomas NortonJ in his ordinal,
104-, ' ordaine therefore to fetch breatll from your foote; lest an
corrosion illthe luugs, and blirtdncss m.ay ensue from
the potent gas that ,escapes at the vessels, or by inse-
cure lutement, where the furnace IS unfortunately not place.
d
under a spacious funnel of ventilation•
. See Wever's Funeral Moouments, 526. Camden's.B1·itannif4
Ch1·onicle,. 467. Godw. S67. ;lslmzole'.s
Thea/rum Britam#cum•..
THOMAS DALTON.
TnE only account of this British ndept, who lived in 1450,
is preserved by Thomas Norton. He was a religious man, of
good report; u.Pon suspi'cion that he had a large mass of
transmuting..powder, he was taken from his abbey, in Glouceg..
tershire, . by Thomas Herbert, one of the squire' of1King Ed-
and .being brought into .the royal presence, he wns con-
fronted by Delvis, , another of the King's squires; to whom.
palton was formerly a chaplain.. Delvis thnt
m less than half a day, made lum a thousand pounds ot good
gold; and he attested the fact upon oath. Then Dalton, ,looking
at Delvis, said,_ ' Sir, you are forsworn.' Delvis acknowledged
he had vowed to him, that he would not reveal benefit
he received, but that for the King1s 'sake, and the good of the
com.monweruth, he ought. not to keep the oath. Dalton now..
addressed the King, and told his Majesty, that he' l1ad recch·ed
the powder from a canon of Litchfield, on a promise .not to
it until after his ; and since then, he had .been iri so much
danger and disqtJiet by the J>OSsession and.charge of it, thaf he.
had destroyed it secretly. 'The Kipg dismissed Daltop, giYing.
him four 'minks, to pay.his travelling expenses where he would;
but Herbert lay. ifl 'Yait, and him to a.t.id .from
.to tl1e castle _
of
I
o1git1zed by Coogle
16 Lives of tilt Adepts.
. . . .
every means were tried in vain, to induce him to make the phi-
losophers' tincture.
· After four years imprisonment, Dalton was brought out to be
beheaded, in the presence of Herbert. He obeyed, with re-
signation and joy, saying, 'Blessed art thou, Lord Jesu ! I have
been too lo.ng from yoJJ. ; the science you gave me, I have kept
without abusing it; I have found no one apt to be my heir,·
.-herefore, sweet Lord, I will ·render tlly gift to thee •again.'-
1"hen, after making devout prayers, with asmiling countenance;
he desired the executioner to proceed. Herbert's eyes gushed
rears to see him to die, and that could .fo:c&
t1te secret from h1m. tie gave orders to let hun go. Hrs Im-
prisonment, and execution were designed without
t11e King's knowledge, to intimidate him into a compliance :
and these iniquitous devices having failed, Herbert dared not to
iake away his life.. Dalton rose fi·om the block with a heavy-
t'ouiltenance, and dcpatt'ed to bis•abbey, regretting his stay in
a wotld o( wickedness. · Herbert died shortly after this atrocious
act of tyranny, and Delvis came to an untimely end; his father,
Sir John ·Delvis, was slain in the battle at Teuxbury, May 4,
1471: and two days he was taken from the ebureh, wber&
he fled for sanctuary, and was beheaded. .
See Norton's Ordinal, ell. 2. 8u?w's Annals, page 424-.
lJERNARD TREYISAN.
AnouT tl1e time that Basil, in Germany; and the two Isaacs
in H_ollanJ, were prosecuting their labours successfully, Bernard
Tre\'han bcga.n to study this \'en'crable ·· Hi.s father
aphysicia-n, of Padua, where Bernard wa:> born; in I4o6. His
nlchc'inical ·errors, of which he gives an account, .are, ·perhaps,
Vte most in of occult chemistry. · · -
.. lt only reqUJres a httle t9 be attracted to a
tlilit pron1ises immense riches. Ben1ard Trevisan, either fr0111 a
for science, or from a love of weaYtlt, rit .fourteen yeats df
eagerly gave himself. up i? this · : '· ' •. .·· ·
· The .lltst bO(jk that fell mto h1s hands was he behcvcd
he..lib,ould find in it a method 'to his patrimony
ll:i.it'lc.trcd _fold. He_ to operate; and :m four
he spent !n useless !mls, he not less 800
at that trine a constdetable sum. T1red of'tbtowmg away hr!t
dmc and ttlouey, he 'began to read, and a{lditHng himself to the
titudy of _
Geber, who, in .the multitude of is ·a
tbe ;he exl?endcd '2000 crowns m
expenrnchts on h1s proecss(s, .not knowmg t'he cb!U'ncter of
subtle-wittetl -<Yebe1·. · He.was_tlrcn .SUrrounded ·by pretended phi-:
o.git.zed by Coogle
Josophen, who. he was rich Vl}fioQ'
secrets, whicq, perhnps, thcf diq riot that they Pligh'
'obtain a Uving, .The hen of false in aU ·
have been ·a public puisance .by their on the,
dulous, who expend em tfieir
,Jnises, ·and imposing experiments.
He was not by all !itill hoj:>r.d to succeed,
by following, according to the letter, the trctltises of 4rchelaut,
Rupecissa, and Sacro/JO$co, and to his light, he 8$SOd-
ated himself with a good ·monk : they worked in copcert
years; they rectified spirit of wiHe than thirty times, till ·
they could find glasses stro•1g enough to hold it. Their
operations cost them near 300 crowns. ·
He had already for twelve year& worked, in vl\in, to di8$0lve,
·.UJ)geal, and subliJnc cpmmon salt, salt am1oniac, aij SOl'tS qf
alums, and copperas ; h.e even procecde<J upop Qrdure, bQth Qf
.men and beasts, by . circulation, and
These labours consumec}, in·the twelve years, altogether,
.7000 crowns. This money was not all spent on
a part of it fell to the share of the preteJ1ded arti&ts by who!U he
was beset, who promised to draw the frQm planq,.
herbs, and ·animals. . ..
At last, discouraged by so much expense apd time lost, .....
11et himself to pray to God to discover to him t}1e aim of at-
chemistry. He worked with a magistrate of coupf.rJ•
. sea .salt; be rectified it for eight mol)ths,
any alteration in its l)atpre. The little he drew froP.l
this last process, him cpange his plan : as k.Jlew
who worked with strong waters, he tried wl;lewer tpcse <lit-
solvents would succeed with him ; he made proof
.and common mercury, hut it was with the 5lUPC
Being now. in the prtme of life, about forty-six years pf 4,
set out to travel in search of true alchemists: the fir&t he found.
was a monk of Cjteaux, nan1ed Geoffrey Leuvrier, wit}! ¥ThOR!
be worked on hen even to .the calcination of the
To conclude; after ctght years of the most lq.boriQfJS ·
all the good he received, was, to know the best way of b11ijding
furnaces, and distilling strong waters. l-Ie, after this, .knew a
a theologian., who was prothonotary of Bruges, in Flanders, 11itf,.
whom be worked for fourteen months, to .distill copperas
'vinegar: by this }ft'ocess he got a quartan fever. · . .
. .
At last, &ays he, ' I was iiiformed, that Mr.
.io the Emperor, Frederick III. had the secret of the
phers' ·stone.'
He imm.ediatdy set for Germany, by
:unhappy SOQS, of Hermes, lih.c they co!ltnve? to..b_e '
introduced to the confessor; and began to lJl conJuncttop
with him. Bernard contributed ten marks of silver, and the
I,»tij; wbich tbe7 few day.t,
o1git1zed by Coogle
Lives of thi Adepts.
to have one hundred at least; but after their rectifiCations, alltd
distillations, instead of incrf!ase, they only recover six of
,their forty-two marks. This journey cost Bernard two hundred
a-owns; and as be had passed the fiftx-eighth year of his age, it
was time then, either to renounce his pursuit, or obtain the
secret of the adepts. - ·
. . His and regret, after losing so many at
•nch a considerable expense, had almost put an end to Ius wan-
derings; he was, for two months, resolved further search,
a ray of hope still kept .his cupidity nli"e, and he out
he truvclled into Spain, passed to Ro.me, went througk
\:Jreece.and Turkey,. Palestine, Persia, Egypt, Rhodes ; he ar-
rived at Messina; returned to F'rance, passed into England';
travelled to Scotland, and to Germany. In cverr
coq.ntry be found many alchemists at work; but of those who
worked with success, he could not be The Jrue phi-
losophers' did not chusc to'muke themselves known, while ths
-lmpostors, who soon hear of credulous and rich searchers, prc-
1!cnt themselves on all sides. Bernard expended in these tra-
·vels, and in false operations, about l S,OOO crowns, and ll'as
abliged ·to sell a possession tiiat yield.cd him 8,000 Gernmn
florins year:ly. He was now sixty-two years of age; and as he
had been deaf to the prudent remonstrances of his family, he
'fiaw ·himself despised, · as .soon as he fell into misery. He en-
to conceal his poverty from human sight, and fixed
.cn the Isle of Rhodes, to live entirely unknown. Neverthe-
less, neither. his misfortunes nor his indigence him ;
-renewed his pursuit, on meeting with a monk who was .addicted
·to it. They repeated their etTors; and to enable them to go
Bernard had 8000 florins remitted to Rhodes, by an
knew his family, but who, very likely, W9.i ignorant of his pq.
..
yerty, or the pursuit he was engaged in.
·· He labout'ed with this monk in the dissolution of gold, of
-.il-..er, and of corrosive subli,mate; and he did so much in three
years at: this work, he expended the fund he raised for tl1,e
purpose. Disconcerted by this new failure, he amused himself
:by aU the great authors, such as Arnold Villanova:
Mary tke Prop!tetess ; Tlte Turba ; and The Great Rosm:y :
this his only consolation : he passed eig'bt years in these
·re-renes ;. thus he was nearly seventy-three. It was very late 10
Jife to hope for success in the Hermetic science, it was time to
of something more serio,us; yet he professes, that it was
·thls time he found the secret. By comparing the adepts, and ex-
amining .in what things they agree, and in what they differ, .he
judged the truth lay in those maxims wherein they were unani-
·mous; he informs us, nevertheless, that it was two years
put it in ·practice. · · · · ;
· Jt was a iceble consolation, after uselessly consuming a con·-
property, .during more sixty in which
o1git1zed by Coogle
Fontaine.-Riplty.
•as sposed to extreme misery, and obliged to becOJ;Qe'an_exile,;
to conceal his poverty, that he attained the prize:when be
at the age of seventy-five years, and life almost gone. Yet !
lived some years afl:er, in the enjoyment of his success, D9t- .
•withstanding_the infirmities of old age, increased by tho.
and perils of his life. · - . . ,
Bernard· has 'left but few behind him. The Natural
Phil•10phy <!{Metals, or Secret Wwlc of Chemistry,
Ol'igin!U!y in French, and cootains m,uch salutary
-imposters; but the Parli1Jfi Wotid, .•nd hi, Letter,.t() Thomqs Rf:
IJO'IIlogne, first physician to-King Charles VIII. lead the
standing artist into the dOQr chemi!ltry. · _ •
Some authors erroneously believe ·him a German, and call
him Bernard of Treves ; the best informed writers stile him
Compte deJa Marche T,rEWisane. · It atpears be died in 1490,
84 years. After llis cleath he had a much better reputation
than while l?eing much .to.be
called the good :Frevisan. · · · - · · ·· ,. - · : · .
, ' . t • . ' ' . . •. ··-:
.,OHN FONTA'lNE.
. ' .
. · I • ' . • : l ' . " i ' '
Tu Jife of this js utt.le-.known, beiJl8 in. his-.
.or laboratory, ·au_d. t»\lch secluded .frOQl .tqe
W.f.S considered a v.isionll;l)r, and was either "rrit,ing _
:verses, .orl
atte9<!-ing.:his He. lived_. at :il). 1413.-
l;lis J¥l8m,. 'J'o tl,e,;Louen: qj, ..'VI.If.l priuwd;
it is and,.tlJe .author
- . '" . . . . . . .
. .
· \ . . .. . " . \ .. . " . .... .
,.. ' . •
,_' ' . t
. SIR GEO.RGE RJBLEY!-.
THis celebrated phi\osophe.f;· .aJ?.·eai·Iy.age,' '(mtere<l
the regular canons of Bridlington, in the pf York. The.
of a )jfe, J!,_ff'!.e l,1i»?- a ' opportu-'
nity to read ·the worJ<s of all' th_e g\"
eat .masters in the Sccret.r
CkemiSitJI ; grieved at not being able to updcrstand them,.
lre resolved. to persuading qini$e!f, .that he should dis-;
cover, in th_
e of he not
cOmprehend from pook$. · · . . . . . . .
In Italy,· Fra.nce, and he became acquainted with.
l}len and bad ·the happiness to see a transmu-.
tation perfoirited at Rome. He went to Rhodes, where, it
pears, from a document found in MlJ.ita, that he gave £100,<;>00.
to the Knights of St. John of . He was dignificP. by
t:he_ P?pe, which, _C?Il his retm.:?- to J3ridlin_
gton, excited the:.
G
.. o1git1zed by Coogle
Live& of _the Adepts.
jekltn!lt or.hi• ; in of their he
efiterai into the order of Cal1nehtes, nt Butolph, In Lure()ln..
tbire; and by an from Innocent VIII. he ®taint'd
permission to live in exempt from claustra) observance;
he now had lei!!ure, nnd wrote twenty.. books
of science, among other devout ·studies. ·
·· He wrote the Twelve Gates of Alchemy, in Jt.71 ; and de-
dares, that any exJ'erinlents written by him, from 1460 to .
}470, should be dlsc.,edited, as hf! Wi'OtP them fto'rn theory, and
found afterwards, by prnctice, that .they were unttuc.
it may concluded, that be was twt!nty years obtniuing tlte
ecience. He dled at Butolph, in 14-90. · · ·
' . .
PARAC}:LSUS.
man, in his timf'., had more adversaries, apd none had
more zealous ·disciples than Paracelsus. He was born at Ho-
benheim, miles from 'Zurich; in Switzerland, in 1494. Hia
father, who was a ,bl¥l a iarg(t collection of. scarce
and curious books, and was eminent in his profession ; from
him Paracelsus received the first rudiments of his education;
.bd when hewas able to forin Q judgment of lie was
eb!ployedt under his in the study of that As
ll)f)n as the young philosopher had discovered a volume 'of Isaac
HoUa'Dd'st ia his Jibl'ftry, he was inftamed with the am.. ·
of c:Dring diseases by me6i¢ipes, to. the Materia
then m use, He performed sever11l chemiCal operatiOlHI, atcotd.,
·ing to the books of Isaac, and adopted, from his writings-, the
ancient ·principles, that a spiritual Sf!ll, me1·cury, and ·I>ulpluw.
#Onn trinity in .=. this system he enlarged, and _
explained according to hls own ltghta. After 1\ CO!-lr&e of
in which he imbibed all his father's extensive learning, and ex-
placed und.el,' the tuition of
of Spanheun, to mtproye Ius knowledge of the .sctenbtic Ian.,..
guages, and the · · . · ·
Cornelius Agrippa, the former pupil of hnd
wrritten to·him on occult philosophy, and what was called natural
that is, the doctrine of -sytnpnthy and antipathy, in.
the vegetable, animal, aQd mineral kingdoms; which
ha,•e necn since exrended tp tlie motion of the plapets,
in the. Newtonian system 9f and repulsion ; the
ganization. of 'Plants by $CXt$'; . and lately, Davy has
ajscovered the l'oQndation of chemistry, jn the
etectricitit!s, on the same two principleS'.. From Tri-
themius's love of occult learning, ,acquired the ca,.
bala of the spiritual, astral, and 1nllterial worlds. He was
"Jratds pla;:ed 'UJe ,are ()f Hugger, .tp be -inl:"
D1g1tized by Coogle
Paratdma. Sl
-proved in mediCine, surgery, and chemistrY ; and, -at ·twent;y
yean of age, he travelled in .German;r and lluugary, visiting
the .mint'S with the most mdustry and applic..tioR,
until he.acquil"ed every inf0l'Jil81ion he wanted &om the miner-.
encolllltering, .for this pwyoae, dangers, earth-
quakes, fwla• of stones, 1J.Qod.s, exhalations, damps, heat, hungqt
and thirst.
He now utended his travels to Muscovy, and was taken
pri8'>ner by the Tartars, who brought him before the Great
Cham. At this court be became a favourite, from his know-
ledge in medicine and He was sent from thence, iil
company with an embasay, to. Constantinople, in the twent;r-
.t!ighth year'of hia age. It was here, aa J. B. Helaoxl relata,
that he was taugQt the secret.of alchemistry, by a genel'OU8
Arabian, who gave' 'him the di8si:JI:oent, which he cal.
QWt, death, or that which pu.trifies, or alcakest, the,tJpirit, which
is the sapAic .fire ; the lceg to aWunnistryj, a science name.!
from tile Amhie clt.om, and Hebrew c.\a,., lt.tal, m811.1ling tic
mgslery Q/ keot. · ·
At his return from Turkey to Germany, he practised u
surpu in the Imper411 army, and performed many "'9nderful
cures. He professed internal medicine, which, in a short
he reformed from the system of Galen, by tAe successful
118e of chemical medicine.. He was invited to take the profelt.i.
. sor's chair for medicine and philosophy, ·in the uniTenity of
Basil, celebrated at that tinte, 1527, by having Eraamua pro.
&ssor in theology, and Oporinus in Greek classics.
.At his fil'8t lecture, Paracelsua burned the works of Galen ia
a bmss pan, with 8Ulphur and nitre. The majority of phyaiciaa•
were, of C0111'8e, enemies to his innovations, before the value of
mine:ral .nediciaes was proved; and he retorted their persecatioa
-with vehemence. He in'rited the faculty to a in whidl.
he promiaed •o teada the greatest .eeret of medicine : he com•
menced, by uricovermg a dish, which was placJed before him; it
; · the doctol'l, iqdigna:nt at this inault,
hftSted out pf the room ; · while P.racel&UB eried out, 'If _you
will not hear the mysteries of putrefactive fermenmtion, you ara.
tmwortby of the name of doetors.' ·
Oporinus aaytS, he never alltlned sober while he knew him.
during three years, until he resigned his chair, d,eclarinlf the
Latinlanguage unfit the purposes of philosophy. A smgu·
lar adventure him to q.uit Basil altogether: .A canon·of
the cathedral was m 5.1ckneu;· all the phy111clans fortook
him, 114 incurable. saw him,·and promiaed to restore.
him to health : t,he canon gratefully expressed himself, as one
who would feel the '8lld make large rec0mpence;-
t'l»> pills·pm;foN»ttl t1ae cure1 but it·wu uo sooner eft'ected, than
the canon·undervalued it, and contended against the claim of
tJ.e doeWr,-He bad lleeu, cllled &oo ·
'
o;9,1Jzed by Google
Livea of the Adepts.
·.plained· to the magistrates ol the town, who .aw8fded a very mode. ·
·rate fee, in proportion to·his short attendance. He publicly in-
:vcighed. against their injustice, and went to Jive at Stl"'UUburgb,
,where he remained but a short time, as he became fond-
of an itine-
.rant life, lodging at the public inns, and drinking to and
' ;perfor.m_ing .. . cures. At length he fell a sacrifice to his
iritemperance, in the forty-eighth year of his life. He died on.a
,bench, by the kitchen Kre of the jon, at Stra&burgh, the 24th of
;September,-154-1. His processes in occult chemistry are impracti-
-cable to the .student who .is unacquainted with his . alcabe&t;
·his fenility of. invention combined this secret unilfenal spirit
:with various substances, forming innumerable def!!.eea of
awl alchemic dissOlvents, for medical purposes. The adept who
ltaa obtained the great object. of alchemistry, is then only pre-
.pared for the school of Paracelsus. . ' . '·
. Opori11-us, the .learned of Basil, attended Paracelsus
.Mtith all the assiduity of a servant, for the purpose of acquiring
$Orne. of .his ;.. he rellltes, than when apparently drunk;
he drew his sword, and forced him to write as .be. dictated: -
Oporinus obeyed, and' wondered much at the ooherency of. the
language, and the wisdom of the matter, which would becoae
the most sober philosopher. , . . · . .
: With respect to .the art of malcing gold, Oporinus lays,
that he often saw .him in want, ·borrowing money of carmen
'and porters; and the. next day he would repay · them double,
.a.fund that could not be discovered. .:His
111 .by some, as an argument agamst the elixir·of
llealth ; and by others, .a proof that he was poiiOned. The
poison of intemperance and irregular living, is sufficient, par-
ticularly .to one who takes the powerful metallic medicine, ·wllich
is an elixir, in its best state, that cannot withetand the judg-
menta of .God; but, on the contrary, heightens the physical
consequences of habitual sins against nature, by
dissolution in the oonfiict of opposite principles. . .
. The name Paracl'lsul, is .used to avoid .his length of names,
Philip Aureolus Tbeophrastus Paracelsus Bornbastus, ofHohen-
laeim, is an unwieldy title. His discip1es add to it, "The prince
- of physicians, and philosophers, by fire; the Trisrnegistus of
SwitZerland ; reformer of cheml:al philosophy ; Nature's faith-
ful master. of the elixir .of life, the philosophers,
stone, Md great monarch of chemical secrets." • ..
· The system of alchemistry, to.be collected from the writings of
Para<!elsu11, ·and his commentators, is very simple. In the :first
place is the alcahest, or spirit qf nature, uncompounded; it is
ONE undecomposable, universal, mild aUraction, passi'Oe and im-
potent, until by an alchemical combination, with any other matter,
· it produces in the union, a new substance, of pro(ligious power, ·
according tO the nature of the matter with which it is com-
bined : . these .preparations arc-dnsolwnts, #nznsmuttrs,
by Coogle
.ParactlsuB.
JltintJl. di:.cirs. Beneath this monad, or of simple
unity, i8.placed the binary distinction' of all .nature, in a mild
or harsh attraction and repulsion.· This sexnal class ·of, mture
.is not a pure distinction ; the male. is partly temininc,. the fe-
male is partly masculine. There is some acid·in alkali, some
repulsion in attraction, some oxygen in hydrogen, some salt in
·Blllphur, some fire in water, some earth in air; but·that all na-
. ture may be classed by its predominant state, of positive er ne-
gative, in the universal !principle of electziciiy, has been latel1 ·
proved• .
The next classification·of nature is the trinity, a mild or llalld
cttmction, repulsion, and ·circ11lation·: a retondite ·salt, ·lber-
.. eurial .spirit,· and sulphur ; ·in these principles, as·before;·each
one contains a part of the other two. Each division .of• the
is still farther removed from simplicity; the gfe&t vi-
sible masses of earth, air, and water, ar-e infinitely:deMmposatile;
· and the faurth·elemeilt of heat, is equally various in it» nature:
it is produced·by the equilibrious conflict of the binary principles_
· and· partakes of the nature of its origin, in the three principles,
· or four but with less apparent of
. qualities, because its birth is in equilibrium; there is,
· a grand distinctio!l of red from the saline
: and· the productJon .of light from the dass of otis, fats, ·&e.
' which belong to the sulphureous principle; cold, hot, dry, moist,
are the characters of the four elements.
The mineral kingdom .has the monad in the most powerful
combination, forming an universal transmuting metal, that
changes all other metal!!, minerals, ·a11d prepared elements, into
gold. The binary class is gold and silver, distinct, by their
perfection, from the other 'five ancient·metals. They have their
·embryo minerals, antimony to lead, cinnabar to quicksilver,
·c:obalt to iron, marcasite to gold, vitriol to copper, zinc to tin,
white marcasite and arsenic to silver; each metal contains other
- ·metals, and each mineral assists· the others in ··forming metala j
·their first being is a volatilt"spz'rit, attracting a liquid'form;
MIRANDOLA.
JoHN Ptcus; Earl of'Mirandola, prodigy ()r learning, was
born in 1463; he was the pupil of .Jochanan, a Jew, wllQ
structed him in the cabalistical writings ; he was called by Sca.-
liger, monstrum sine vitio; his numerous works were printed .at
Straiburgh, with those of his nephew, the Prince of Mirandola,
.in 150-i; and the following epitaph i:;; on his tmnb : ,
.Hie situs est Piciis Mirandola, ccetera nonmt,
· Et Tagus e! (o1'san_et
o;9,11zed by Google
Lives qf the vl6.tpts.
When he we twenty.br years of age, he J'Uhlished 900
prepositione, ill logic, mathematics, pbysict, divinity, and the
tCelbala, oollewtd from Greek, Latin, Jewish, and Arabian
-.rlters. At ho cerifiqed himielf to the study of
· Seriptures. ·
Thi• illustriou. personnp wile makes the following
lmd 5tudied ox4etly all the of philesophy, and was
of thJ tueuu of Hermetic operations. lfe writes,
in his b®k lilt. 8, cap. 2. come DOW to relate·wh4t
I have seen of ibis prodigy, wfthoot·veil or obscurity. One <>f
:my fioienda, whtt It JtC)W livin3, made 801d and silver more
th'-'1 llix'-Y time. .in :my I have teen it done in divers
JAannei'-a ; but thtt &f Jtuakiqg the Jilvor, with 4' metallic
WJlter, exceeded the proouce. ·
1P 14J10ther inJtanee, the same author Yfitq; : ' A good man,
who lNfd "at a tq aupport his was reduced to
the lut e:J.tfetnity.of distl'¢llj ; with an agitated miltd he went to
elec!p one l)igbt, and, in • dl'9a0l, taw -. bloued angel, who, by
taught him the method of making 80ld, and in-
.Cic.tecl to him. ,., tho Mmll time, the water he lbould use to
At his awakf.,g, he proceeded to wa.k with this
watQJ, ud Jqade in Anall·quantity, hut 1ufficient sup-
JlfU"t bbl family. Ho 'wice JMdt gold of it'Oil, and four times
flf orpi-.cut. . He !ftC, by the eviden¢e of my own
eyes, that the art of making gold i5 a fiction•
. WARNOCK•
.Tuol\W q,.Mnm
.(:tt W$1;
.. born iq the Qf
. in the
l524, He; himi!Qlf ap unletwred. scho4u', an<l student
lQ. and He pnwtiMl4l·Sl,lfgf;ry ; qut did
:not k11ow 111\lclt· i it that he famed i(l the
ucjghbo!lrh()ftd of where liv®, for
. mcnts in the liberal 'Ue two JUil!ltefi ir\ qlcQemy,
the first was. Sir James.S-, a <.lwellillg in the
ters, near Salisbury, who informed Charnock, that be did not
derive his knowledge frow ljyi¥B qdept; but by reading and
meditation on the words of tlie ancients, )ie discovered the prin-
cipal secret of alchemy, as he lay ip hi• and
succeeded making the : . .
·The othc;r master who 1nstru(!\cd Charnock, a hhpd man,
led by a boJ,· whom he discovered at an inu7 among
other traveUers, few qf whi<:h
he perceived in his conversation. As the company had
retired, Charnock entered int oclose:r inquiries, and requested to
be instructed in philosophY.
. ;-to this the objected,
ali he did not know hiiJl :-he SAid, he would .remJer up Jiis
knowleilge to God, who it,· if-he did no• mee' one
o1git1zed by Coogle
Cllnrnock.
!fock, the fable of whoa! fuatnihg and htWI fellicllkt him.
At these worda Charnock made blmilelf knoWn; and the old·
man discoursed wi&h· him tOt' aft lt.aur, dutiitg W'hich thbe he
found him expert in •U of tM aelenoo.
protnised Chatiaoek, that if ht! made ts '10w, JttJt to hlbelll tke
secret for gtM., ,rffotmtnt, M- #.rot.gk lftTal tltm;
bfd· ttl t#JJiftt, to Olf.e 'ltlito •t detJiJttd t() tl1e of
Natue; be wotlld Bloke the heit of bitt knowledge.. Ae•
cordingly, the next Sabbath-day, they received the S&crament
together; and then withdrawing into the ·middle of a large
field, the boy was sent away out of hearing, and in a few
words the blind man lltwed • tlte mysUrJJ of mineral pnulence.'
He renewed these conversations for nine days, diacloaing the se-
crets of alchemy;_ and his own private ac9uuinting
Qaiftotk that bm nante \t8i W1LLIAM Butn, tl111t he liad been
a Of n.th; al1d defrayed w apence of repairing the!
s.lti!N!y eliurch, .&oth the treasure he made by the red arid white
¢Uxin. · At the auppression of the abbey; he concealed. the. in-
Jn and tetuming in ten days, i! wu
He fouhtlsotnil t'agllth the place where he had,left Itt.....
This milfurtunt abnoat hith of his senses ; he wandered
2tbout, and IO!lt hli !light. He waA, thetefore, unable to repeat
his proc:et!$, and travelled through the eountry, led by a
He had teeelved his Hermetic knowledge ffotn a servant of
Ripley's. At the time of this communication, Chamock wu
twenty-eight yean old; a!ld ih two years aftet; hi$ fint muter
fell sic.k, .while attending hi8 fot the eortlpletion of
ted •tone. He seht fdr Chart16ck, fhade him heir of his
work, and giving him btstnit'tidris hO'W to proceed, he dil!d.
,·, ·ldt on these msteriA!s, and
'tras perplexed by the difl\culty of keeping the fire eqa.at.
He Gfteti.sbn'ted o\It of hlt·sleep to exaniine tlie fuel; but aftet
aU his eare hi ortc hout after Le bad left all
tht! ftatne of wood·tb\tt c<>Ve'r'cd the futnnce, took Me, and
1then he Sli\elled dK! OO.rnbtg, iitid ntn np hi's lnbonttoty, he dis·
covered that hi!! wof·k Mts coriipletely destroyoo; this was Jan. t,
1553. To repair the r'11ischicf, wns obliged to trotn
.first plitt of the ptocess ; he hired a servant to. aasist h\ takir'l!(
care of fire. . In the of two montha be -was &led .-itli
hopes or success; when, his dependance on his setvailt, proved
·the ruin of his work: he disto'O'ered, that thili un&:ithful
would let the ftre near out, attd then, to conceal his negltict,
kindled it 1tith grease, till it was so hot as to korcb t'he
beyond rec<>very. In the .thh-d attempt, Charnock resol\'ed to
prOceed \.vithotit help. His lire eost him three pounds a week,
and he was obliged tb sell some rings aud jewels to If:
·he made jtOOd progtess in the COUl'Se of eight months, and C1i:·
to be rcWl\i'ded in a· little time for all his labours; but at
o1git1zed by Coogle
t::'4:·
Live&. ttl the ·.Adepts.
t1Us..crjtical period, wat; ·impreseed to serv'e as a soldier, at.
of Calais, in a war with France. Furious with disa.p-
be .took .a hatchet, smashed his glai,e11, and
appara:t\1$, and . the,m out of the house. . . .. ·
He w.rote his Breviary af P)lil(>sophy, iJ,t @d :the
Enigma of Alchemy, in 1572, with ·a . dated.
when .was fifty yea.rs ol9., .in decJ:lres .his
of the .g919-makmg wbeu..hu• .b4'1X:S
. ... .... .··. ·. ·, . ·.. ··' . ·.. .... , .
·, • I .
i
nENNIS ZACHARY. '··
. -GJJUNNJ:;, in was the of
who was born of a good family,- in 1$10. early
in house, he W!-IS seo.t .to tQ Ph1-.
lowphy, under.the .of 11 tu.tor;,, y;ho w&S, \lnfortw.n_ateJy, 4I1,
. i!OOn in t\le of,
exan1ple an.9, conversations pn tthis subJect; and finding:some
)'.OWlg.IJ¥!n eg1.1ally .cred\lloul; himself, they.;prQCeedeQ
to .cqllect some otu: ,of ,bo9k,s and.
as .they 'obtain,. qn .the scienc,e, transmu-.
,4s.Y(it, :
¥ pnly indulged plea,sure of conyersing on
reveries; but having ·been sent to 'foulou5e, to
atudy law, ,.still by the tutor, they proceeded:
: , _ . .• . , . ..· "· .
. ;Two ,hu.pdrefl ,cro.wns, lVIth Yte.Y w,ere for twP:
years: maiptenance in t;iys city, .were .sQOn..expended. in
fJf furntU:es, m&trUJUeJ,lts, .and .. tQ. execute.·
which they took 'X'he res'l,l.lt$
seduced them,; they that ·. t\le .plain
,mark of truth; l,lPt ,,knowing, that ,p;te, adepts are
neyer so. muGh con.cealed, ,as in th!'l literal descriptiQU of a
they to be understood.,only by a master, :while
the, alle.gorie5 .te;lehing gcner.al prim;iples, are mostcandi4
instn.lct.roiis to' improve the nqvice.. . " Before the .. of the
lie rcl3,te,S; " .my tw9 h,undred.crowns.were iu
atl(f my: a.fever he tookin. summer, ,his. close
attention to .the . ·which he.erected in his .chal)lber, an4
$tayed' there in heat.. : His
still as my .refused ,to supply me.with
.inoney, exQept ,what :Was just necessary for my I
therefore unable to proce9.d in my grand wor_
k." .. . . ._
'.· J, To overcome these difficulties, I went home, in 1535,
mg ·of age; to put myself out of.guardianship; l disp95ed
some of .my, property for four ,hWldred this supt
· a process,. giv,en.,t<>..D.lf 1p
·o.git•zed by Coogle
Dennis Zachary.·
Toulouse, who said he it proved. · I kept him
living with to see the end of his process. · . . ·
We dissolved g.old and silver in various sorts of strong wa-
ters; :but it was all in vain; and we did not recover one ha1f of
the gold and silver, out of the solution, which we had put into:
it. My four hundred crowns were reduced to two hundred and
thirty, of which I gave twerity to the Italian, to proceed. to
:Milan, he said, author of the process liyed; and he
was to return with his exp\anntions. I remained at Toulouse
all the '"inter, waiting for him ; and I should have been there
still, bad I waited for this Italian, as I never heard of .him since.
In the ensuing .summer, the city being visited by the plague,.
I went·to Cahors, and there continued for six months. I did
not lose sight of my work ; and became acquainted with an old
man, who was caUed ' the philosopher,' a name given in the
country. to any one of superior information. I communicated
to him my practices, and asked his advice: he mentioned ten
or twelve processes, whieh be thought better than others. I re-
turned to Toulouse, when· the plague ceased, and renewed.my
laboW's accordingly ; but the only consequence was, that my.
money was all spent, ·except one hundred and seventy crowns.-
To continue my operations with more certainty; I made an ac-
quaintance with an Abbe, who dwelt· in the o£
this· city. He was taken with a:passion for the same pursuit as.
myself; ana he inform'ed me, .one of his friends, who lived
the Cardinal Armnnnc, had .·a process to him:
which he genuine; but that it.would cost t,wot
hundred crowns.· I agreed..to·fumish one half of this sum, and
h.e gave rest; so we to Our pro-
cess reqwred a large .of the. spmt .df I purchased
a cask of :wine, from which I drew !}te.spirit, and rec..., · .
tified· it many. We took two pounds 'weight of it, and
half a poon4. of gold, · we had calcined for a
moJ?.th; were· included in a !Wd placed ina fur...
TJ¥s wqrk lasted a Y
:ear ·:-but nqt to remain. idle, we
made some other experiments, to amuse ourselv.es, from which .
we to draw- as much profit, as to·pay..
the cost of our
great work. . ·
· year 1581 passed over, without any change apPearing in
the sUbJeCt or' pm; labours: we might have.been all our lives in
the same state; for we should have known, that the .pei:fect
unalterab\e by vegetable or animal substances : we
took out our powder, ancl made projection upon hot q1,1icksHver,
bpdt Wl;lS ·in vain·. Judge of our grief I especially as the Abbe
lWl to all .his that they would have to melt the
cistern of their in order thaf\ might convert it,.
into ·,go,ld, 88 soon as our operat!ons were finished. . '.
My success could make me desist ; I again four
. II .
D1git1zed by Coogle
58 Lives of the Adtpts.
hundred crowns on my property; the Abbe did the satne, and
I set out for Paris, a city containing more alchemists than any
other in the world. I to remain there as long as the
800 crowns lasted, or until.! succeeded in my object. This
joumey drew on me the displeasure of my relations, and the
cerisure of my friends, who imagined I was a studiom; lawyer.-
1 made them believe, that the design of my remaining in Paris,
was to purchase a situation in the law courts.
After travelling 'for fifteen days, I arrived in Paris, January
15S9. I remained a month almost tmknown; but no sooner
had "I visited the furnace-makers, and conversed · with some
amateurs, ,than I became acquainted with more than a hundred
artists, who were all at work in different Some laboured
to extract the mercury of metals, and afterwards to fix it. . A
variety of systems were held by others ; and there was scarce a
day passed, in ivbich some of them did not visit me, even on
Sundtfs, and the most sacred festivals of the church, to hear '
what had done.
In these conversations, one said, ' If I had the means to be.
gin again, I should produce 8omething good.'-Another; ' If
my vessel had been strong enough to resist the force of what it
contained,'--Another, 'If Iliad a round copper vessel, well
I would have fixed mercury with silver.' There was
not one but had a reasonable excuse for his failure; but I was
deaf to all their discourses, recollecting my experience, in being
the dupe of similar expectations.
I was, however, tempted by a GI_'eek, on a process with ein-
Jlabar: -it failed. .At the ·same time I became acquainted with
a strange gentleman, .newly arrived, who often, in my presence,
sold the fruit of his operations to the goldsmiths. I was a long ·
time frequenting his company, but he did not consent to inform
me of his secret. At last I prevailed on him ; but it was only a
refinement of metals, more ingenious thru1 the rest. I failed not
to write to the Abbe, at Toulouse, enclosinf a copy of the pro-
cess of the stranger; and im11gining that had attained some
useful knowledge, he advised me to remain another at Paris,
since Ibad made so good a beginning. .,.
After all, as to the philosophers' stone, I succeeded· no better
tlnm before. I · had been three years in Paris, and my money
nearly expended, when I had a letter from the Abbe, acquaint-
Ing me that he had something to communicate, and that I
should join him as soon as possible. '
On mv arrival at Toulouse, I found he had a letter from the
King or"Nnvnrre, (l':lenry) who was a lover of philosophy. He ·
requested that 1 should proceed to Pau, in Beme, and meet him
there, to teach him the secret I had from the stranger at Pm·is ;
aitd tllat he would recompense me with three or four tlwusand
crowns. The mention of this sum .exhilirated the and J!e ·
treYcr let me rest till I set out to "'·ait on the Prince. I arrived
o1git1zed by Coogle
Dennis Zachary. 59
at Pau, in May 1542. I fuund the Prince a very curious per-
By his command J went work, and succeeded, ac-
cording to the prQcess I knew. When it was finished, I ob-
tained the recpmpenrre which I Bu.t although the
wished·.to serve .me f1,1nher, he was dissuaded by the Lords
of hts cour,t. even by those who bad me t,o come to him.
He sent mft ba<;k .wi,th greul however,
me to soo if there w.as any thing in his states would'gpatify
me, such as <;onfiscations, pr ;the like, ,nud tbat he woula
give to me with pleasure. These promises, which p:1eant
.nothing, did not lead me to haYe coJ,ntlCI·s' J Teturned
Abbe, at Toulouse.
Oo .my road, I heard of 11. religious man, was very skilful
natural philosophy : ·I weDt to visit him: he lamented my .
misfortunes; .and said, a friendly zeal, that he advised me
&o amuse myself lQager with these various particular ope-
rations, which were all false and sophistical ; bu.t that I sho11hJ
rather pPMSe t.lt.e best books 9f tke ancient pkilosopl;.ers, 11-8 well
to know .the tt-ue matter, as the rigkt ord1r that s401Jld be pur-
sued in the practice of this ' ·
I felt the truth of this sage wunsel; but before I pu.t it iiJ
execution, I went to see friend at Toulouse to give him an
i>f l4e eight hundred that we had put in Com-
mon, to diviile with IPD1 the recompense I had received
th-r King of If he was 1;10t content alll
told }Jim, he was still less, at the resoluti,on I had taken, to
my operations. Of ou,r soo· crowns, we had but
left. I left him, and weQ.t home,· intending to go to
f,nd to remah' there until I was fixed in my theory, by
tqe of the Adepts. I .came Paris in. 1546, and re-
mained t4ere a .year, studying the Turbo. qf tke
Pkilosoplzers; the good Trroisan; the Remonstrance qf Natur;.e;
f!.Dd some Qther of the l)ooks. J3ut as I had no .first przn-
cples, I not on what to detfrmine. -
At le!Jgth I went out of my Solitude, not to see my ol<\
the after tinctures, and n}inor
works, but to frequent those wllo proceeded in the pro-
cess, by the books of the genuine Adepts. I was, J?,evertheless,
disappointed herein, by the confusion and disagreement of their
theories, by the variety of their works, and of their different
operatioDs.--Excited by a sort of inspiration, I f£SVe myself
up to the study of Ra:rpnond Lully, and Amold de f/illanova.-
::f4:y rea(!ing and meditation continued another year. I then
f01"11Jed my plan, aud only waited to sell the remainder of my
to enable me to go and put my resolutions into
practise. . I ci>mmenced at Christmas, 1549., and after some
preparations, I pt·ocured every thing that was necessary, ·and I
pll, Qot without inquietude, ancl difficulty. A
friend wd to me, ' What are :you going to do ?-have you not
D1g1tized by Coogle
.60 Lives of the ,Adepts.
lost enoJJgh by this delusion?' . Another !lSsuretl lllC, that .if I
continued to purchase so milch COJ11, I would be suspected of
the coin, of which he already heard a rumour.-
Another said, I follow my business of a lawyer. But I
was chiefly tormented by my relations, who reproached me bit-
terlr with my conduct ; and threatened to bring the officers of
justice into the house, to break my furnaces in pi('ces.
· I leave you to judge my trouble and grief at this opposition.
·I found no consolation, but in my work, w.hich prospered fi·oin
day to day, and to which I WJlS very attentive. The interrup-
tion of all co.1 merce, which was occasioned by the
gave me the opportunity of great solitude, in )Vhich I could, lin-
by inte.rruption, with satisfaction, the suc-
cession of the three colours, which ml\rk the true work. I thus
arrived at the perfection of the tincture, and made an essay of
its virtue, on common quicksilver, on Easter Monday, ·1550.-
than an hour it was converted into·pure gold :-You may
how joyful! was; but I took care not to boast. I thanked
• (iod for the favour he shewed me, and prayed that I should
permitted to use it only for his glory.
The next day I set out to find the Abbe, according to the
Eromise we gave each to communicate 'our discoveries.-
On my way, I called at the house of the religious man, who as-
sisted me by his good advice. I had the grief to find, that both
he, and the Abbe, were dead about six. months. However, I
did not go back to my house, but went to another place, to ·
wait for one of my relations, who I had left at my dwelling. I
sent him aprocuration to sell all that I possessed, both house
and furniture, to pay my debts, and distribute the remainder
to those in want among my He soon after ;rejoined
me, and we set out for Lausanne, in Switzerland, resolved to
pass our days without ostentation, in some of the celebrated
dties of Germany." · ·
Such ·is the account Zachary gives of himself, expressly to
prevent the same misfortunes occurring to others : and the re-
of his success, twenty years labour, is, tt.at he became
an exile, unknown, except by J1is book on the Natural
sopk!J of Metals. . . .
BEHMEN.
JACOB BEHMEN may be considered, first, as a t<>ac:her of tlie
true graund of the Christian Religion. Second{y, as a discoverer.
of the false, church, from its first rise in Cain,
through every age of the world, to its present state, in al1 and
of the present divided Christendom. Thirdly, as a
the u:uth of all the mysteries of the kingdom of
.J ". ' J \. • • • ; . • . • •• • •
o1git1zed by Coogle
whi<:h cqn.t!lin.all that ilDY·Qne ·can,_poa-
sibly want ·to know, or learn · ffo.tn any teacher, · he is
the plainest, the JOQst open, intelligible, a.wakening,
convincing writer, that ever was• . As to all these. ma*rs,
-:he speaks to everyone in tlzesilund ,ofa trompet. I;Iemay fur.
ther be considered, fwrtlzi!J, as..a relater ofdtptlzs opened i11 kim..
:$elf, of wonden which kis spirit had seen and felt. ·When his
·bOoks first appeared in English, many persons of this .n.tion, qf
the greatest wit and abilities, became his readers;
of entering into his i:me anly design, which was, ·their _
qwn re':'
generation, from an earthly, ,to a lieavenly life, ckemists,'
and set up furnaces to regenerate metals, in search of the phi-
losophers• stone'. And yet of .men in the world, no one has
so deeply, and from so true a ground, laid open, ·the ext'.eeding
vanity of such a labour, and utter impossibility of success in it,
from any art or skill in the use of fire. .
This author esteems not merely his own outward reason, but
acknowledges to have received a gift from God; freely
bestowed upo!l him, left in fOJ:' good of
that should hve after h1m. And m h1s writmgs, he has dis-
covered such a ground, .and such principles, as reach into the
deepest m!Jsteries qf Natu1·e ; and lead to the attaining of the
lzighest, powerful, natU?·al wisdom : such as was among the phi-
losophers, Het·mes Zoroaster, P!Jtkagoras, PlatrJ,
and other deep men, bota ancient and modern, conversant in
the of Nature,. .
These prineiples lead to the attaining $Uch wisdom as was
in E,fMJ.t,, 4t Moses had skill; to the
wisilom which wa.S ·ta\lght m Bab;ylon among the .Ckaldeans,
.Astrologians, or M.agi, who saw the star that led
them to Jerusalem and where they uw the Child
Jesus, and worshjpped;. and so ret,urned ; -whom God him-
self was pleased to warn, and direct them what to do.
Thjs ground discovers the way to attain, not only the deepest
of Natpre, ·btJt Divine Theosophy, the wis-
dom of faith, which is the substance of things .hoped for, and
the evidence of things not seen with tthe outward eye. This
wisdom brings our eyes to see such things, as Moses saw in the
mount, when his tace shone like sun, that it could not
be beheld ; - such tllings as Gehazi saw, when his master,
Elisha, prayed that his eyes might be opened, his inward eyes,
for his were open before ; - and then he saw the
angels of God. Such things as Stephen saw, who said that
heavens'·opened, l).nd Jesus sat at the right hand of God; and
his face shone like the face of. an angel at his stoning. And
who was caught up into the third heaven, and b,ear<J
tlungs not to utter. ·
' Such wisdom as this, sees and knows all mysteries; speaks
all tongues; of and angels ;-and the language of Nature,
. . .. . . .
o1git1zed by Coogle
' .
Lives rtf the A.dept1.
by wltich Adam n.amed all the in l'ar.. This Jria,.
dom can also do all miracles. ·
• Jacob .Behmen was born in Old Seidenberg, near Goerlit?,.
Jn Gennan Prussia, in 157.5,_of poor, but honest and sober PI\-
He tende<! cattle with _other boys of the. village-;
retir\ng one day tnto a c,ave, m the rook Laqdscrown,
he saw a large wooden vessel 'full of 'money, from w.hkh l1e re-
tired "'ithout touching it. He informed his companions of
but they cotifd not again discover the entrance. Some
after, a foreigner wh!J took it away--but he died a
shameful death-the treas'!lre having a male-
diction to the covetous.
Behmen sent to :;cbool, until he W1J.S of t9
be 'apprenticed to a While h.; attended in the
shop, an old man, of good mein, entered, took him by
hand, and with sparkling and angelic countenance, said,
' Jacob, thou art little, but thou ·wilt be ·the wonder of
world I Fear God, and reverence his word.' At this.- he de-
parted; and Behmen froiJl thep.ceforth,
and devout.
In 1598 and 1600, he was surrounded with the Divf,11e ligltl
for several days, he' snw the virtue and nature of the vege:-
table world, by the signature of the plants, as he sat in a field :
his on a plate of tin, was sufficient to inflrune the glory
of the light within him. From this time he 'Yro,te several
books o( the inward manifestation of Tkeosqpky, until he died
in aged fifty. · . . r
The 6rst book wru; Aurora, the day,spring, qr the of
the day in the East, or morning redness in tlie pf the sun,
root or mother of philosophy1 from the groul!d. A dej
ecnption of nature; how all was, and came ·to be, xn the be- .
ginning; how creatures p,roceeded from nature, and th,e e!.e':' ·
n1cnts. The two qualities of evil and good. How all things are,
and work, 'at present. How all will be, at the end of
time. What the condition is, of the kingdom of and
the·kingdom of hell ; and how men tq
either of them.
2. The three. principles of the Divine Qf the
eternal, 1st; dark, 2d, light, and 3d, temporary world ;shewing
what the soul, the image and spirit of the soul are ; also, what
angels, heaven, and paradise How Adrun was before the
fall, in the fall, and after the fall. And what the wrath of
- God, sin, denth, the devils, and hell are. How all things
have .been, now are, and how they shall be·at the last. .
S. The high and deep searching, of the three-fold life ofman,
t.
hrough, or according to the-three principles, shewing what
- eternal and what is mortal. Why God, .who is the highest
.good, has all things to -light. one thing -
contrary to, destroys another. What lS nght and
or evil and false. · '
o1git1zed by Coogle
Bellmen:
4. Forty questions concerning the soul. Whence it proceeded
at the beginning. 'What its \$sential natul'e is. How It was ere-,·
ated in the image of God. What, and when was the breathing
of it in. Its form. Power; if corporeal; if propagated ; how
nourished with the word of God. If a new soul is without sin.
How sin enters the ,soul. How unite!l with God. How it de- '
parts at death. Whither it g9es. How remains till judgment. ,
If it is conscious of the world and friends it lei. What is its
What is the state of the danmed. What is the
1mil of the Messiah. Where is.paradise.
5. Of the incarnation of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. Of
Virgin; Mary; what she was, from her and what
kiiid of-mother she came to be, m the concept10n gf her son
Jesus ChriSt; and how the Eternal word, is become man. Of
Clu1si's ,sufferings, death, and resurrection, and how we may
enter · Of the tree of Christian faith, shewing what
true taith is. .
an explanation Qf first book of
p&lled ; treating of. manifestation. the
Divine word, through the three prmciples of the DlVlne es-
. sence ; and of the original of the w9rld, and of the <:reation,
wherein the Kingdom of Nature; and the Kingdom of Grace,
are explained, for the better.understanding of the Old and New
and what.Adam ami Christ are ; and how man
ati9,dla know ·himself; what he .is, and wherein his temporal
and eternal life consists ; and his eternal blessing and con-
demnation. ·
· 7. Four tables of Divine revelation, signifying what God
himself is, without nature; and how cor.sidered in. nature, ac-
cordixlg to the Three Principles. Also, what hell,
tiD)e,. a!l? etemity, are; together with all
VISible and mvlSlble ;·and out of what all of them .
had theLt"
original. . . _ . , .
8. Signatura Rerum : the signature of all thing.s.; shewing
the sign.and signification of .several_forms and shapes in_
the creation ; and what the begmmng,. l'um, and cure Qf every
is. It proceeds out of eternity into time, and out ·
of tune into eternity, and comprizes all mysteries. .
9. Of the election of gl:ace; or, of God's will towards man,
predestination. A of the highest ground;
aQewmg how a man may attam Divme skill and knowledge.' An
AppendiX of Repentance,; the key which opens the .
.Mysteries. .
10. The way to Christ: of true repentance, resignation; re-o
the life. !Jow man should atir up ;
Limself m mmd and w1ll ; .and what hts earnest purpose and
consideration. must be. How nuin must daily die in his own . ·
will in self;· how he must bring his desire into God; and what
he abould ask and ·desire of GQCI. lio.w he must. spriag up otit
D1g1tized by Coogle
Lives of tiie .Adepts
of the 'dying, 'siltrul' rnah, with 'a new mind aml}Vlll,
the spirit of Chri,t. What the old man and. new man are;.
what either of them is in life, will, and practil:;e. .HQw he that"
earnestly $eeketh salvation, must himself to be brought
out .of ·the and ..by the .spirit of.
Chrt!?f, that .he may be born anew m tile. spmt of Christ, and .
liVe to him only. How the may attaiQ. to divine hearing
· aiul ·vision ; and what its dlildsT1ip in the natw·ar and ....
natural life is; and how it' j>asseth out of nat1,1re 'inte Godt and'
out of God into nature and .sdf again ; also, what its salvation
and are. or one soul. shou'kl .
nnd comfort another, and brmg It mto the paths of Christ's pil·
g.rimage. The way fi·om to .true . . .
11. ·The four complexiOns, choleric, sangume,· phlegmatic,
rnelancliOly; a consolatory 'instruction for souls in the time of'
temptation. · · . '
12. Of holy baptism: .bow to be and:.hy a
Christian be baptize<). Of tlie. Holy Supper:; what;it isJ ·:
the effects; of It, and how t9 be received: from the true theo- .
.Ophical ground. · ·· · . · ·. .
Is. Six. I>oints: .of the tree of life. by each of the .
tlirce.principles. Of the mixed tree of evil and'good; how the
three principles are united, and work together. .orcontrariety ..
in the life. How the good and- lioly :eternal ·
through all the generations of the t!uec. is .ap-
prehended· of none oi them• . Of Perdition: a hfe
eth, passing out of love and joy ruise.-y. Of
wlierc the devils dwell. Six. points: of 'the blood and wat-er Q( ·
tlie soul. Of the election of grace,. or predestination: of good··
and· Of sin ; what, and. how .it is. How Christ will ·
liver up the kingdom to the , Father. Wl1M the is.
Wliai the Mysterfis. . ·. · · ·
14,. The Divine Revelation, in answer to t.hirteen Theosophic
qnestlo?s· .. "\\"hat is, nature and the creatirres.:;
What the aby&s of aU.. Of. God's ·lo'\le and ahge1•. Of'
were angels created; the1r. office; :why created? Wl!at moved,.
Lucifer-to his fall,. and how if possible; wr.x
What. the ·strife between Mrehael and the dragon. ·. ot tT,J.e
eaunsel or of God con'ceivable by:man. How Lucifer is,
without God, . . . . · .. . : .
Tp• .
Of heayenl.Y;· ; and.
how the heavenly Is revealed- m the earthly. · . . ,
. ..16. Of the- tr'!e. of . ·· .;. ·
17. Of the.DlVlne VISion ; how all 1s from, tbrough1 .and m
God. ·How God is riear all; and ·filletb all. . ' .
IS to Five books. in· defence and explanation; twc> ad.:.··
dtessed to Tytken, two to Stiefel, .aad one to Richter. . ,··.,
24. Sixty-three letters. .. ,
Dogitozed by Coogle
·, . · Behrnen.
To Paul Keym, he wrote the Hth of Auguit, 1620, of
Alchemy: · · . 1 , :
" You have undertaken a very hard labour, which doth
·nothing by.t perplex, .eat yp, consume your llfe.; it is
· there no literal demonstration.;
Holy Ghost is the key to it; · there is :no need of such bani
labour and seeking; .seek only Cbri1t, and :yuu will fold all
things." · · · · · <
" The philosophers' stoil,e .j.s a very stone;
of a grey colour, but .therein lieth the highe;_
t tincture ; tl\ke
before you only ;wi/.h · · ·. · ·
. To l)r,. , ·.
" The seal Qf j.t, to conceel the true ground·
of the np,OD pain ..of · punillhmeut, .unless ·a man
koew fo, certain that it ·miJtht be miau.sed ; there is·also rto
pow•'Jio ,.ttain to.it; •DO s\iU ew ar.t availeth, unless one gi¥e'
the tineture into the hands .of .he prepare -
it,
except he be certaiDly-in .the birth. · ·
· lt doth not .COlt , aay money, lllut what is spent upon. the
tin;te and elle it migllt be prepared with four:
might it ; wjadgm.thereb,. ia great, and q.e great•
• I IJ ·• .
• . . .
These li11e1 cqpfed.from MS. in a 'OOlume of his
Whate'e:r .the Easteraltfa.gi sought,
Or Orpheus or taught,
.. Whate'er "Cfipiui would inspire.
.Or Ztwocuter.'.s Plyl&ic fire;
The symbol's that Pythag(Was dreW's
·',['he w;.daui God-like Plato knew ;
What .Socratii debating proved,
Or Jlpictdlu.lived .love<;!; ·
The aaeted me of .
..wlt aDd sage,
'l'lu.oqgJi ev'ry clime, mnery age,
· In Behmen's woiideroqs page we vjew,.
·and Wttealed 81lew.
" dawned the coming day, .
Succeediilg book& meridian liaht dilplay.
Ten thouldnd depths his works explore,
Ten thousand truths unknown betore •
Through all his workS pr.otOuud, we trace,
The abyas of nature,. Goo, and grace. ,
The seals are broke, the mystery's past,
And all is now reveal'd, at last. ·
fhe trumpet BOWlds, .the spirit's.
Qenmen ia the voice fiom Heaven.
I
D1g1tized by Coogle
Lives pf tire 4depts. "'.
ALEXANDER SETHON.
I ;.
· l)f tM adept!s suffered from iml1rudent ·of tl1efr
- powet more than s.ubject of this. He was a_'native .of
Scotland, and passed lnto Holland ln_1602 rernaml'<l
lirlle at Erknsen, wftfl Jnmes a who had rc-.
ceived hospital;>le attention at his house, when hi5 j;hip was the
1tear wrecked on the cbast of Scotland. Hausscn saw
his guest with &stoilishment, make sevetal transmutations in
house; he was botind in auH fdtndship "to a faifhful se.;.
hut he did not think there was tll'ty risk m t!lentioning the
Dr. Vanderltnden, of· Erku.en, the town where
· )le lived. ·The physician beinga mnn of inwgrity·and prudatce,.
H4uaaen .did not to give him a piece of the gold, ou
wllieh he engraved the date and year of the
.March,. lti02t at o'dock: -'l'bis piece- wos aecn in the
han<ls of the Doctor's grandsov. by· Georse· ·
. SetJaot,. thro' Germany Uuil, where he
traoUnutatioos c he tp ' and uving
incautiously exposed himself' to &Ome persons who 4lfortned .the
Duke; thill he bad a. living hia
h.!adt, imprisone<l a toftr, suanfed bytiorty aoWien, who
had strict orders to keep a con11tant watch on him. ,ft.s: was in
vain Elector perauasions to obtpin the philosopller's
secret j he now tried if be could prevail by rigorous pleflllSt which
encreased widl Itt &lbon )Ya&
sttnate. .
All species of torture were tfiedt the application of ·fire,
and by every intreaty WllS 'Qed f but podliptJ c::on"
quer the firmness {If Sethon. . . · .
There was then at .D,resdetl ·a M9Nviao gentlep.ap,
Michael Scndivogius,. a reaident at Gl'ileoYia, in Poland; he
a after philojpphenl iltoite ; tnd int07
rested for Sethon, obtained tD- visit hi4ll• .After several·
intervie'fs, he propo.ed te aid him in an est::ape: to
which Sethon COQseotsd, ·.u him BMistiQlce ;in his
pu!-"Suit of alchemy. A• aoon .u . .the was fonned,
Sendivogiqs went, and sold bja w.ht!re he bad lived, iu
and reblming tn Dresden, lae made pd cheer witll
his friend, and alao treaood the soldi-ers to tlae ...-. At
the day arrived,. in wbi.m hi. piau wu rally fpr ;
he rehtaled the gwtl'd11 better. tltua and •hen they were
all drunk, he hrooaht Setbon out; to a p•·thaist, ip. whicq
they ,proceedecl witltoat dilcovtry; titst oolling .at Scthon'li
house, to get from his wife the powder of transruutation, and
then! witho11t d.y, travelhld out of diD IDecconte of Saxony.
o1git1zed byCoogle
67
. sentli\"'gius now remincled··s.hon of hi• he, and the
,;ave him an ounce of the wbich,- ,Jse laid,·
wus if he knew how to aJie it, bUt with nwpect te the ·
nJaltfler er it, 4yw 5 wb,a&i
1 have suf'ered; my nel'\fel ·are elirunk, my llmba
eltlaciated at? fttren.lity' a.nd body al11106t
e\'en ·to avmd tlus, I dld·aot the secNtl I":
Sethon did not long enjoy his litlerty in on,I1: .
two years after he left his. dwelling ill &otland..
;·
-
MICHAEL SENDIVOOIUS.
o1git1zed by Coogle
· Atf...tbis ·t:iale.·;the :oribce of pOwder was nearly apem; a part
Qf it,was .lOst, in attempting to multiply it; in various
His »ndnces for good livift81, .and his
Jarge suma, which ae. ebtained from a Jew at Craee»ria, who
<\iajlosetl.of hi& 'gold ; and seeing that he had aa yet viet} no..
thiog'.of the Yirtue of his pow'det' in medicine, BC put all u..
of it.into rectified spirit. of wine, 1tida which he
Ji!tonished the physicians, Qy the marvellous cures lie per- .
formed. : liecretaiy .to the Qlleen of W
a medal, which was dipped, red-hoi, into this spirit, before
III..King of SOO. it was from
a;ilver mto The elwr the same kmg of a very
grievous accident. In this manner the entire ounce was ex-
And now Sendivogius, of sue-
·in the thougli Wltfloht imy left, to
tfie chargetr of it, commenCed infainOU'B •ttadff •
from the opulent, to he applied in tfle !'r
dJ'etr· cttptdtty. . The Marshlll Wolski; of Poland, ga'!e hm
6000 francs, whtth be expended, imd produced nolhmg·but
nnd cinders: He was next employed by 1\fenftok, t'htr'
Palntine of wlio also ga,'e hint 6000 franc!;; fleo'
paid . of these to the MarshalWolski, and went to worlk
with the remainder; but the· result was only disappoitttment.-
Notwithstanding the character he had, by birth1 and the lic-
of he was so depraved; as- to
a dehoerate Impostor. He silverEd a p1ece of gold, and.
reigning that he had the elixir; inade the silver diaappear, 'by a
themical separation,' which he imposed on the ignoraut, as a
,pt9jection Qf the tincture, converting silver into gold.
Tlie relatiqn of his life, by his confidential servant, BorhtJJski,
this deception as a finesse, to conceal his teal characrer:r
having from experience the of defending him-
self froin the violence of men. · He sometimes feigned
poverty, or lay in bed, as one attacked with the g6ut, ·or other
; by these tv.ealls he removed the general suspicion that
hap the stone ; to pass for an impos-
·rather than a possessor of unlmuted nchcs. ·
: He travelled in a livery, and concealed
most of his red powder in the ·footstep of his chariot, ,making
one'of his servants to sit inside. '. ' .
· He kept some of the powder in asniall gold box;·and with
• .single grain of it, conYerted ao mnch .mercury ·gt>ld, as
SOld for five hnndred ducats. ' · ' · · ·
He was at his castle of Grovema, on 'the·frontiers of PQland
and Silesia, when two strangers ·came ·to vi!it him;- one ·was
old, the other· yo'!lng; they presented him with a letter having
twelve seals·; he said be was not 'the person they sou,ibt;
tbemeelves as a deputation· frozp the BQiierNiic11
o1git1zed by Coogle
Gtutenhover• .·T • 89
_
S«idy ;' he.-replit!d.'to their " eert_ai•.
!ltolJes die blfHiid ·uot ·know"Waat 1t m8alit ;''
he conferred with them 4111 . philosophy in
They oftftoed to initiate him in their. &nterDity, wbich. he Qe.;
dined. He died at Groverna, in 16+6, aged 84-, having been
eounacHor of State to three Emperor" Rodolph, ·
and ·Ferdinand. ., .. . 1
His only child was R daughter, who married a captain mthe
army, against the wish of ner father. He left her nothing
the treatise he wrote, " Of Salt," which be would not print ill
bi.a lest it should renew the troubles he experienced
from the public;ity of hi. character.
. ..
. See Mangefs Proqf qf tne at Basil, l60.J, · in
. the priface. to his Chemic Li/Jraty; and Wedelius's Testimony,
9uoted !,y that some l!f tlais gold was sun by lzim in
tke qf Zwinger, in tlzat city.-- See Desm¥Jin·s' Letter"
(Langlefs HisiOI:!J} i'R proof oj a silvn· crown piece,
eon'Oerted into gold hifore Kitlg Sigismund IlL of Poland. ·
Borel, i11 his Galic Antiquities, recounts, that he, witk .many
otkel's at Pads, saw tlzis crown piece, and lze describes it as
pat·tly gold, so far only it was steeped i11 tke eli.rir, and the
J:old part was porotu, being more com}'act than in its
former state i11 silver: tlz.ere was no appeara12ce qf oF
Me possibilit!J qf an!/ See Morkqff epistola .ad Lange-
lotum.
GUSTENHOVER. .
There was a goldsmith, named Gustenhover,·living at .Stras•
in 1608. In a time of grfat peril, he gave shelter to a
religious man; :who, OJ1 leaving his. house, after a con-
stay, presented . with some trnns-
mutmg powder, and, depirtiog on hJS JOUrney, was beard of
ito more. ·
Gustenhover imprudently made transmutations before many
persons. It was soon reported to Rodolph II. who was .an
amateur of alchemy, .He wrote to. the magistrates of Stras-
burgb, directing them to send the goldsmith to him forthwith.
Tiley immediately attended to the Emperor's orders with zeal,
arres&ed the man, and guarded him with vigilance from the
posiibility of escape. When they informed him, that the' in-
tention of hisimprisonment was, to send him to Prague, to tlte
'Emperor, he immediately understood. the business,. and iti,·ite4
tJle magistrates to meet together, desiring them to bring a cru-
o;9,11zed by Google
Qtt •d ebm-J-, and (without 'bit •rf'l'ooming) tn melt smwi
.b- .hich PUI'pote they &Ueci some m&aaket baUs; he then
baocled WQl • little red po9'dsr, which they east into the
mekeli1 lead, and the of their caleination waa pure BOld•'
'
· Heilman's veJ.6 ;. Theatrum Chern : and Manget'•
Chemic Library. . . n·. ·
JltJS.\RPJER.
Tu-,; .particJJlnrs of thi$ Rdept, were pte9Cn'ed
in conl'equence of the of his successor. He dwelt
Pragnc, with n lord of the court, and, falling sick, he per·
ceived hjs death was In this extremity,
:tle wrote o. letter to his chosen friend, at Viennn,
requiring ht!Jl to rome, antl remain with .him in his last mo...
On the rfCCipt of this RiehtnU$eD set oot, $nd' ·
travetled with all expedition; he hQd the on
his •rrival at Prague, to find that the was no more. He
diligently if he had left any thmu; and he was in-
.formed by the steward where Ce lodged, that
ha.d loft a powder, which he 11hewed to Richta\tsen, and 'said1 ·
his master had desired him to keep it s.'lfely, but, for his parf:t.
l1e did not know the use of it. Upon this information, Rich.;
tauson adroitly possessed of the powder, and departed..
But the nobleman, oq Jw,.riog of the ·l.{ansaction, threatened
to hanno hi& 10teward if he did not recover the powdeor. The
eteward, that no one but Richto.ur.en could have taken
it, bim, arQled; and tracing hi•n on the roa<4.he-
had an interview, iu which be presented a pistol to his breast;
telling he w.ould shoot him, if ht! did not restore tbe pC')wder,
Richtatlscm, there was n<) other way to preserve his lite;
llC had powder, and woold it. Ac-
cordingly he did so ln·appearance; but, hy an' ingenious con-
he kept 11 qua.ntity of h e>f the pa;rcet.
He was ·now · of a treasure, merit of which
fully known to him. Ife presented hjnisc}f to Ferdinand JIJ.
'l1usEmperor, who hegrn to in was an a,lchell_list,
He took (",'ery precaution, atded by Couut Russe, hit> mme.-
master, in :with some of the powder given
hjm by- nic:htauscn. He three·pounds of mercury
into gold, with one gr&ln. The fqrc;e of tht'! tincture was; one
u.pon 'The Ernveror caused medal. to be struck,
'Vt;, Apollo, with the caduceus of )fcrcury ; the motto, "Divhlf!
metamorplzosis t:r'hibiM,Prag'Ult. Jan. 151 Anno 1 in P''te
o;9,11zed by Google
Jolm Dtt. - ,.
4tlelill: S. t rG'a!s; Fttditunltli Trrlii., Oa: the teYft
." &,.is luee. ut has est 11r1 ; ita t"lft'O ill luce. 'jW'Otlfl
det.u· Detu i,.. qui jlarlda tiUI die
Sflis abjectis#mtu. ·co• ..,.;,.,."- He aleu eano\l)N
by .the title gf Baron Ch1101.
Among many tra&Hmu&ation• Jbade by the Baron')&
powder, was one b! the of in 1658. His
·Highnese ruadt projettK»n with all the prec11utloua J)OWble to
· letu"ned and akllfuJ philosopher; it was with a little bultod,
like a small oovec«< with gum t.ragacanth, to retain tbe.
· put thia bu\ton into the waut of a tlpet, which
waa lighf!e<ll and tbvtl P'lt this wax into the bottom of a
.crucet ; h.e poured fOur ouncea of quicksilnr, and put
whole into the fire, coYtred l1id& above, below,
.-d !U'OtlM ; then they began to hlaw to the u&ruost, aud itt
haU' au hour th•.Y romo•414 dle coals,' and aaw tha& the
JBelted gold wae l'Mher too aa it ia uwally green, The
Bar.on said, that. Ute gold was yot roo add lt WM Aeeea-
.. -.ry to put some .W.ter iato it. Th., lOOk some pit!C*
pf silver out of his p<K:kct, and p&&& thtm iuto the pot,
and having potired out the .mtire, · iD. fut&on, lbto a
wben ooq}. he fOund it 1tat YVy dno gold, btl& rathet'
hard, which was attributed to the lingot ;-when it Wd melte4
,.gain,· it.proved very 80ft.; and theM.._. of &be Miat declared
his Higbnesa, that \tat more tbaa t• carats ; he
sueh fine &Old. . ·
See WeJJitts'l to · Mcmconis'5 · Thavd.s,
'ltftl 'VOl. 8791! page. Ph«NIUlcopaia, p. 1. cit. 1. Pkilip
j4toll in p. ·
JOHN DEE.
AMoNG wme instancea, proviug tbat the posaession of the
philosophers' stone wgwd make a rich man poor, and a weak
man immoral, the life of Doctor Dee, affi>rds. a striking ex-
ample. The hiatoriaD Camden calls him ' Nobili» Mathema-
ticum'. He wrote 49 book., eight of them were printed. Hia
library contained 4000 '700 of which were ancient MS.
in Latin, Greek, HWrew, and other languages. At an early
. , he had a super&titio\li veneration tor those branches of th•
c:ahala, which are by Christianity; .and this led him,
throughout his life, into if!Credible en·ors. He .associated in
wnuits wilh Edward Kelly, whose clear uodentaRrling,
aWl quick apprehension in matters of philosophy, made th<l
J?oetor hi& il'aicible artd cbaracta.
o1git1zed by Coogle
'' Lives of the Adepts.
in • . Ht; was a·not&ty, livinJ
m. Loodon.. Dr. Dee . lived · m. the nezghbourhood of the
·in a cottage at Mortlake ; He ·had taken. ffilt.hi, · ,··,
Artiu• Magister, at CIUDbridge, .,April, · .· .. : · ·.
It is said, but euiicimt: authority, ·that Kelly WM
j>rosecuted at for falsifYing an .anciept'.deed, and waa
CWldemned to. have his ears cut off. He · l't!tlred,
.to and lodged at .an obscure inn. During his.stoy
&lutre · he :learned from . the inn-keeper, that the tomb of ;.
·a _in. .a neighbouring shire, ·.'Yas .
.ta · cont.a.ua b1s .rlches!. tbe:.A:pmb was"·-openecl'J ·bqf 'the
..only dise<Wery .made, :waa- ''flhd ' ·two sMall
.bottle:s of·ivory:' .ooe of theee and. it tontained
.a· heavy. r.ed powder, without saent ·the' othei:. bottle· waa
.u.sed -as a . toy by ;the inn-keeper's \vbo
-knew the .value of these articles, . a pound ·sterling for ·
the botde and book, wh}oh the. inn-keeper accepted with
added .to the .bargam, of red: powder, whtcli -
lle had sav,ed "'hen tbe other bottle was broken. Kelly, pos-
of tbis invaluable treasure, returned to Loodon; :shewed
the bt>ok a?Juaintea him with hi$ good. for-:-
tw)e, :lwt did not yet gtve ;hun the powder, or.shew h1m a
. : ·· . . · .. · . . . .
.Dr. Du was ,not ig110.rant CJf cbemi8try; in December-1579,
made a metallk the projection of which, he says, ;wiuJ one
upon a hundred ; and he revealed this secret t9 Roger Cooke.
But the tincture possessed by Kelly, was so rich as one upon
and he lost .much by trials,· before he
kn€w the extent of its power. ln Dr. diary,· in Get":'
mafty, there is mention made of tlte h.ook o/ fit. DMstan, all4
tlt.e powder fount/ at tlte digging in England. The place where
this treasure was obtained, was generally reported to be the
ruins of GlastonQury abbey, f'oUJlded by St. Dunstan. The
last abbot was hanged by · Henry VIII. for adhering to the
Pope. It is about thirty-five miles from Glastonbury to the
nfarest part of Wades. .
• In · June, 1588, an attachment was issued against Edward
-
Kelly, for coining 1 upon which he expressed so much rag&
..nd fury against one Husey, who had scandalized him, that
Dr. Dee feared he ought not to consort with so disorderly a
ia person, although he vms Innocent of the felony. Kelly now
brought the powder from .
· Sept. 15, 15JS. Dr. Dee, his wife and children, Edward
J(clly, and his wife, accompanied by Lord Albert Alasco, of
in l'ohuul, departed from London, on a journey to
Craco. As ·soon ns they arrived in the North of Germany,
· Dee received a ·:Jetter from one of his friends in. England,
informing him, that his• library at M6rtlake, was seized,
pld'tly destroyed; on ·the·vulgar report -of hi11 unlawful studiet;
o;9,11zed by Google
,.. · Jula" Dee. ··
nnd tbl.lt ·.his rents · nnd were The tra-
vellers· were in so m,Rch 'want of money, when they arrived at
th11t Lord AltlSco .ad•ised then't to return home by Ham-
burgh.' ··HoweVet, tlrey proceeded by KoningsberfZ}} tb
the ·Lordship M Albeit, who wns somuch in Jebt, that..he
\·ould not proceed to Cra<:o. Dr. D. lrad not yet a trans-
rnutnt;ion with · Kelly's powder. They took a ·lioq!ie ·for a
in Stephen-street, Craco, ij>r 80 gilders. .Next year, 1'5,8+,
they Jived in Prague•. Dr. Dee wrote to the Emperor
and to the Spanish ambassador, who were both ' lovers
cbemy. He wns received with favour, ap<J Dr. Curtz 'was ,a,P-
pointed to -confer with him.· . · · · •: ' ·v
· · In Septemb'Cr 1584-, they " were brought to greri..t piiziurf);'
tlult·w:ithout Lord Alnsco, or some heavehly 'he.\p, ·they···qmtd
·'iNk ·sustain thcil' !itate any iongcr.' 'News .reacbed· them of
:Queen· EliZilhcth's displeasure .against them. They were 11lso in
iJl·'tllpnte<at ·the Court of :-it ·was reported that Dt.
'])a.• Jiad -sold his goods in Encland, and ·given the 'produce
to 'Lord A.·lttsco, wl!o· was not· able to. reJllly it; and that th.
e
money·from the Emperor, by
alchem1c:d Imposttions. · · · · ·· · ·· . ·
In l\'Iarch 1585, Mrs. :Oee prayed to God ·to their
:necessitieS for meat and drink f<>r.their flpniiies; which irere
much oppressed, and tbat tltey might not pawn OT sell their
clo h Ot" · furniture.' to ·the Jews, oc of Prague, wlJo
slandered t hem.•
: ·
. In May 1586, a sentence of bl.fllishment was ofticially sent
to Dr. Dec. Prince Rosenberg, viceroy of Italy, remonstrated
·in vain, previous to his d<'parture fur Leipsic, from whence lie
removed to Trebona, in Here, Edward Kelly, on
the September, 1586, transmuted an ounce of mercury int()
·gold, with a particle of the }1owder, · like a grain of sand, in
·the of Edward Gartand; who was sent for that purpose
1from the £iur;of Muscovy:· · · · · · · ·
I11,.Janunry jm:.vious to t.his, D.r. Dee hnd received two
rDimum Dei from Edward Kelly, and he abounded .in money;
he had 20QO ducatll in one bag, when he paid 800 florins to
Pttoous,' the author of his banishment, who followed and .dis-
bini,
·· Queen Elizabeth hearing some report of these transactions,
<employed· Captain Gcvin t6 ns<!t>rtain the truth. · Dr. Dee wrote
to her Majesty's secretary, Walsingham, telling him the Queen
11ad mi%(.•d ll\1 opp<?rt!lnity worth a million of gold ; and in
·proofot'-tlidr English ambassador, Lord Willoughby,
to liis court,· from a piece of a warming-pan,
which was convel'tcd into. sHver, by steeping it, red-hot, ·in the
elixir. At the marriage of Edward Kelly's maid servant, he
gave away as many rings as were worth £ 4000. They were
Jnadc of gold wire, twisted two or three times about the finger&.
K
o1git1zed by Coogle
Li'Dt$ o:f ...
. The A,ril is noted witl't joy, luec e1t dies guam .fecit
Dominus. Edward Kelly had then declared to Dr. the
.111aking of the philosopher's stone : it docs hot appear that either
of them -
succeeded in the process. Dr. Dee's son Arthur1 wbo
,was after his father's death, physician to the Czar at Mosco,
.says, in his Fasciculus that in llis ear&J !JOUlk lz.,e
'Witnessed tra npu'ation repeatedl!Jfm· seven years.
: In 1589, Dr. Dee parted with Edward Kelly, taking his re-
.ceipt for the powder be delivered up to him ; be set out for
England, in consequence of the Queen's invitation by Robert
.Garland : at Bremen he was visited by Henry Kunrath, nn
alchemical adept. Tbe Langrave ofHesse sent a complimentary
to Dr. Dec, who in return presented him with twelve
,Hu.n.garian horses, which he brought from He _arrived
·.i,n England after six years absence. The Queen gave hUn au-
. and cnlled. to his house .very
• 200 angels. to keep h1s Clmstmas, him a
Jicenaem S1r Thomas Jones offered h1m his castle
.ofEmlin, 1n Wales, to dwell in• .He was mqde chancellor of
,st. Paul's, in Warden of Manchester He
"'·ertt there ·w1th his w1fe and children, and ·was mstalled
Februal)' 1596. . . . .
Edwurd l{elly Wll$ imprisoned by the Emperor, and set at
liberty in IS98. He was in favour and knighted 1S95, but ·was
agt:Un confined, to escape by a rope, he fell from
the window of his pmon, and was killed. _ . ,
. lt does not appear thnt Dr. Dee made any transmutation in
· a(tcr his return. The prt.judice against his studies wu
.·rev1ved ; St!ct'etary Walsingham and T. George were
missioned 1592, to seurch his hotlse, and report if there was
.any thing unlawful to be found. In 1594-, he wrote to Lady
Scudamore to move the Queen, that he migbt either be heard
,ju his defimce before the Council, o1· set free to go where he
plcnscd. He wrote 11o justitkation of himself to the .Archbishop
cf Canterbury in 1595. · ·
· In 1607 Dr. Dee lived at Mortlake; he- had a powder in'
"Ji:ceping, but it was not productive of any_transmutation : he
lived on the revenue be derived from Manchester. The Fellows
ofthat College shewed their enmity to his character on several
occasions, and it appears that he was · to borrow
·1001. to purchase necessaries. He died shortly after this date,
aged upwards of80 years.
See Morhof. de Metal. Trans. IS. Wever's Funeral Monu-
,menta 45. M. Ca5aubon's Preface, and Dee's Diary, folio,
. 1659. Elias Asbmole's Notes to Kellt• •ork, 4to. 1652.
o1git1zed by Coogle
Hcltnont.
.) .:
·..
,
HEL!\10N1'.
I.N the yf.!ar l5i7, at Bois le Due, in Brabant, Jolm'
Baptist Von Helmont was born of a noble family. He studied·
at. Louvain, and became eminent in Mathematics, Algebra, the_
.tloctrines of Aristotle, Galen, tl1e medicine of Vopiscus and
Plempius. At seventeen he lectured on physics as prrelcctor,
and took his degree M. D. in 1.599. He read Hippocrates, and
all the Arabs as.weU,as Gre'*s, before he twenty-two years
old. He then passc<l years ip. tJle practice of
physic ; Hntil he me.t a. Paracelsian chemist, who discovered
various chem.ic.al tnf!tlicines .to him. !Ie'retired tO the Castie·of
Vilvord, near and laboured with unremitting diligence
.in the of bodies of every by chemical experiment '
and he continued for the ,remainder of his life retired and almost
unknown to his 'except a few, whom .J:te ll.j:,tended
fee as a ;He declined an invitation and Bat-
-tering offers froin the l'i:mperor and 1he Elector. Palatine, arid
several Tracts, which are to this day the admiration
ofthe learned, he died in the .67th year of his age. .
";fhis a¥,thor, so Hlustriou.. in the sciences throughout Ewope,
ana no less celebrated for bis noble· rank than by the
of his cha;racter., testifies in difFerent places,of his books,
tbat he 'hu seen transmutation 1 and that he has perfopned it
himself 1 He speaks in .treatise de Vitte p. 590,
" I have seen and I have touched stone
more than once ; tAe colour of it was like saffron in powder,
. but heavy and shining like pounded glass; I pad oncegh·en me
the fourth part ofa g.r,in, a that .which 600
to an projectio!'l )Vith fo"'rth !?art.of a
griWl, m. paper, · mght
heated lD a fruc1ble, and alf the qqtckstlver, buvmg
made a pule noise, 'stopped and congealed into a yellow mass•....:.
flaving melted it with astrong lire, I found within elev""
of eight o.
!lnces of most so a grain of this
Woul<f Juive transmuted mto'" very gOod gold, }9,156 gtnlllS of
quicksilver."
If Helmont professed the art of making the transmuting
powder, his t'estiinony woqld not be .so free from suspicion as 'it
is : he says on another occasion, that an artist ofa few days ac-
quaintance, gave him half a grain of the powder of projection,
,with which he transmuted nine of quicksilver into pure
gold. He says dint he pertormid a similar
many times, ip presence of a large compan,y, au . always
_with the aoame success. On these be cer-
tainty the aud that it i$ w of
o1git1zed by Coogle
Lives of tbe Atjepts.
artists he knew, had as much of the red;.stone, as would make
two hundred tlzot4Sand pounds weight of gold.
Helmont professed the knowledge of the nlcahest, and the
method of preparing medicines of transcendant efficacy, by its
comltinations. The universal ,dissolvent, according to the Pa-
racelsians, unites with some things ea:;ier than with others, nod
the union with one, gives it tile power of easier accC'ss to nno-·
titer. Hence, there is a of its qffinities necessary to
be understood; otherwise the exceeding great difficulty of some
lk>lutions, by the alcahest, woul\1 either for want of skill or
time, make a radicalunion insuperable.
It appears, that the combinations of the unive1·sal
in the order of compuative affinitie&t dive1ge in the two
branches df the saline and the classes. Its nearest
affinities are the most open spirituous substances that partake
of both branches; and 8S vegetablC'S are more open than animal
substances, and minerals are more compact than either, the first'
and easiest combination with a watery spirit, including only
small portion of.an giJy fire, .and alkaline salt. After the
,Icahest passes .alchemically .through this degree, it comes
. separated in the forui Qf an essence,' containing .all the virtue
of the combinatiqn, extended with it to a of me,licinal'
powers, which ·it had uot before ; it ·passes m like mlmnei
. by the ea11iest transitions tht·oqgh the gum and saccharine
to the unctuous-thin oil-aromatic-:.dry oil-:-hard oil-
iuul thence to animal, mineral, and metalli{.! sulphurs. The.
branch' passes through the neutral alkalies and
itetable adds; from thence through the vitriols lllld saline
the animal and mineral salts, metals and
1 each new combinati..m is an accession of new powers;
one of them perfect and universal-all of them are
:pumerable varieties of from may be selected
pcc?liar best ·suited by their app.ropri:ite to
adepts respective purposes. Thus the artist, who has passed
through the one narrow ga'te, to the shriqe of nature, cm1
his future access, and guard the practice of alchemic
physic from its effcc.ts, the ti·ail body
sqoqld only rcbcvc mc1.hpm13 sutte<.{ to Its weakness. ·
. I ' ' ,, · , . . \
; .
13UTLER.
.·,
' •·TN the Rt7igt1 ()( Jftmcs thtf Fi'r;st; the attentidn of tl1e C'Qdous
tlttrndted ffy .a report; of .se'\·eritl· made in
by artist. He :was :in Irish Gentlell'lall, who •
·JtM_ju!lt <
then fl'Qm visidng foreign countries. It was
tllat ·he ·hau ·nct tJ}j :secret of making the·stolle, but n\
Drgitrzed by Coogle
Butler-" 71
a«ount·fi,r-his poisessing it, tl1e Mf>ry wnsrelitted:--i.
1'ht; ship in which be took Li!? pa!t!ittge m one of his l"oyage$f
was captured by an Afrkan ·}Jirate, and. on arriving iD port, he
was sold. as a sla•c oo an Arabian, who was an . alchemical
philosopher. Butler to his maettr skilful aDd inge..
.nious, he was employed in the most diilicult opel·aticilos of tho
laboratory. Having a perfect knowledge of the importance of
the process, as soon as it· was finished, he b.rgaioed with an
Irish merchant tor his nwsom, and made his escape, taking with
.
.him a large portion of the red-pow&r. It is probable that Butler,
&ndivogius, and otlters who made public transmutations, found
it necessary to declare their inability to make or encrew;e the
powder they obtained, knowing that perpetual imprisonment is
the most lenient fate that could befal the possessor of an inex-
'baustible fund of those metals, which, under roval sanction,
are the current representatives of all the property in the ci-
vilized werld. ·
A countryman of Butler's, who was a physician, formed a
plan for dtscovering his secret. He pn·sented himself as a
.servant who wanted a place, and WBJ hil·ed by Butler : l1e found
the philosopher was grown so circiUllSpect, that he sought in
:vain for some ch·cumstance to justifY the public report of his
treasures ; until at last Butler sent him into the city to purcltase
alarge quantity of lead alld quicksilver•.
The disguised doctor now hoped to make a discovery ; he
his commission with dispatc.:h, and prepared a small
hole in the wall of Butler's room, through wbkh trom the ud•
joining apartment he could.see what was going on. . He soon
per<;eived Butler taking something out of a box, which he put
on melted leJW!, aqd deposited the box ia a concealed place
j.mder the floor of his room. At this moment the table and
chair on whicli the doctor was elevated to the gave
way, and he fell with a loud noise to the ground. Butler rushed
out of his room to learn the cause of this disturbance, and
the he with retrained from run-
Jling h1s servant through the body w1tll hut sword. ·
· Finding there was no hopes of obtaining any thing from
Dutler, the doctor expected to surprise his. treasures, by re-
porting to the officers of justice, that he was a coiner ot false
money : A vigilant searc.:h was made according to his <lirec•
tions, but uothing was found, as Butler ren.1oved whatever could
betray him-his furnace, crucibles, and 89 marks in gold,
were all he appeared to possess; he was therefore liberated from
the prison in which he had confined Quri'ng the in·
jrestigation. .
·. Butler was afterwards imprisoned in the Castle of Vilvord, in
J'].anders, where he performed wonderful cures by herntet=c
i:nedicine. A fellow prisoner, who W<\S a Monk of t
bavini a desperate erisepilas in arm, wu restored to ht:a!th
o1git1zed by Coogle
78 Li·ots of· the .Adepts.
in one hour by almond ,-nilk, in which Butler oril7
tlipped the The next day, at the rumour of this
stance, the celebrated J. D. Helmont, who lived in the
bourhood, weot with severa,l noblemen the prison : Butler
cured an old woman in their pt"esence of megrim, ·by dipiJing
a stone into oil of olives, with which ·he ht•r he-ad.-
An abbe&s, ,whose arm was swelled, and her fu1gerg stifF tor
eighteen years, was also cured by a few applicatit>ns to her
tongue of the same stone. These cutes arc .attelited·b_y the
i,llustriow. Yon HeliJ?ont ijlhis worksr · · ·
HELVETIUS.
....
The tpost un9uestionable testimony to the fact of
transmutation, was' pt'rbhslicd by an eminent physician1
John Frederic Helvctius, at the Hague in 1667, and dedicated
to }1is friends, Dr. of An1stcrdam, Dr. Hansius, of
J-Ieidelberg, and Dr. Mcnzelin, of Brandmberg. ' On the 27tli
December, 1666, in the aftermmn, a str.apgcr in a plain rustic
dress, came to my house at the .Hague ; his fi.l&nncl' of
was honest, grave, and authoritative; his sta):ure was low, with a
long face, nnd hair his smooth chin; he seemed like a
.native of the North of Holland, and I guessed· was about
forty-four years olcl. After saluting he requested me most
r.e!\pcs;tfully to pardon his rude introduction ; bui that his love
of the pyrotechnic art made him visit me ; having read
6ome of my small Treatises, particularly that against the sympa":'
thctic powder of Sir Kenelm Digby, and observed my
doubt ofthe hermetic mystery, it caused him to ·request' this
terview. He asked me if I still thought there was no medicine
jn nature, which could cure aU diseases, unless the
parts as the lungs, liver, &c. were perished, or the tinie of
flcath were come. To \Yhich I replied, I never met with a1i
adept, or saw such a medicine, though I read much of it, and
often wish
. cd for it.- Then I asked if he a 'physician; he said,
be was a founder ofbrass, yet from his youth les.rned many rare
things in chemistry, particularly . a friend, the manner
extrat't out of metals, many med1c1nal arcana's by the use offire.
After of experiments in metals, he asked me, would
·.I know the philosopher's stone if I saw it; I answered I would
'11ot, though ( read much of it in Parncelsus, Helmont, Basil1
:mJ ethers; yet _
.I say I could .know the
'r.:atter. In the mter1m he drew from h1s breast-pocket, a
-ivory box, and out of it took tlu-ee ponderous"lumps ofthe stone,
ahout the size of a 'small wtill-nut ;. they were transparent,
aud of u pnl{! brimstone colour,:wheteto some scales of tlw
Dig•tozed by Google
llih.:cliU$. 79,
tiblc when this most n9blc subatance ·was·tnelted.-
'l'he value of. it, I since. was twenty tons weight of
gold : when I bud greedily. examined and handled the
a quarto7: of an hour, and heard from the many
rare secrets. of its adinirable effects, in human and metallic
bodies, and its other wonderful properties, I returned him this
treasure of treasures ; truly with a most sorrowful mind, like
those who nhemselvcs, yet .as. was just, very thankfully
and lmml)ly; I further to ,know why the colour Wll3
yellow, arid not red, ruby coloul;!, or as philosopheTs
:write ; be answered, that was nothing, for the matter was mature
!lnd ripe enough. . Then 1humbly requested him to bestow a
little piece ofthe medicine on me, in perpet!lal memory of him,
thougll..b\!t the size ofa coriander or hemp ;: he presently
answered, Oh no, thi.s is not lawful, .though thou
ghre me as many,ducats in gold.as would fill th1s room, not for
the value ofthe but for some particular consequences ;-o-
.,.ay, if.,t were possible said he, that fire could be burnt of fire,
I would,rather at this instant cast all this substance into the
fiercest flames. He then demanded, if 1 had .a more private
chamber, . tliis was seen from the public : I presently
conpucied, him into the best furnished room backward, not
but he would bestow part thereof, or .some great.
on me; he entered without wiping his shoes,
Jhcy were full ofsnow and dirt; andasked me. for a little piece
ofgold,' and pulling off his cloak, .opened his vest, under which
he had five pieces of gold; they were hanging to a silk
ribbon, the size of small breakfast plates ; and this 'gold so far
mine, that there was no for flexibility and
colour ; the inscriptions engraven upon them he granted me tc)
write -out they were pious thanksgivings to God, dated 26th
166f>, w!th the of the Sun, Mercury,
Moon, and the Sl"llS ofLeo and Libra..
I was in great a3mirntion, and desired to know where and how
he obtained them. He answered, a who dwelt some
my boWie, said he was a lover of this science, 'tlnd came
to reveal it to me; he taught me various arts; first, i)f ordinary
and chiystals, to niake rubies, chrysolites and &c..
much mote valuable than those of the mine ; and how in a quarter
pfen ho]lr, to make an oxid of iron, one dose of which would
infallibly cure the pestilential dissentarx, or bloody .flux; and
how to make a metallic liquor to cure all.kinds ofdropsies most
C:ertainly in four days; as also a limpid clear water sweeter than
honey, by which in two hours of itself, in hot sand, it
the tincture. of granats, glasses, and such like '
he .atd more, which .I Helvetlus did not observe,. my mind
being occupied to understand how a nQble juice could qe drawn·
'out oftn.inerals to metals. He told me his said master
c;'\l3N him io bl'ing a of :t_Vater, and he put some
o1git1zed by Coogle
Lives of tire .Adepts.
silver leaf into it, wfticb was dissolved within a quart('!'
of an boor, Hke ice when : . ' And present!>: be drank
' to me the half, and I pledged htm the other half, whtch had not
80 much taste as sweet milk ; wherehy mcthought I became
very !ig4lt hearted. I thereupon asked if this were a philosophi-
cal drink, and wherefore we drank this P?tion ? He replied,
I ought not to be 110 curiotis.' By the .satd master's directions,
a pit"ee of .a leadeR pipe being melted, he took a little sul-
pbttreous'powdcrout ofhis pocket, put a little of it on the point
of a knife into the melted lead, and after a great blast of the
bellows, in a short time he poured it on the red stones of the
kitchen it proved most excellent pure gold; which he
!lllid brought him into such a trembling amazement, that be could
hardly speak ; but his master encouraged him, saying, cut for
t4!yself the sixteenth part ofthis as a memorial; and give the rest
away among the poor, which l1e did. And he distributed thili
aims as he affirmed, if my memory fail not, at the Church of
Sparenda. At last said he, this generous foreigner taught me
thorongbly thi!! divit)e ,art. .As soon as his relation was finished,
I be"'gOO he would shew me the of transmutation to confirm
my faith ; bat he declined it for that time in such a discreet
. manner, that I was satisfied, as he promised to. come again in
d,lree weeks, and shew me some curious·arts in the fire, and the
manner of projection, provided it were then lawful witl10ut pro-
hibition. At the three· weekS end he came, and invited me
abroad for an hour or two, and in our walk we diseoursed
of nature's secrets, but be was very silent on the subject of
sveat elixir; gravely . that it was only to magnify the
sweet fame, and mercy of the most glorious ·God ; that few men
Mdenvourrd to serve him, and thiS he expressed as a pastor or
minister of a·Church ; but I recalled his attentiQn, intreating
him to shew n1e the metallic transmutation; desiring also that
he WQuld eat ;md dl"ink and lodge at my ho.use, I pressed ;
but he was of so fixed and ·stedfnst a spirit, that all my endea-
Yours were frustrated. I could not forbear to tell hhn that I had
a lab9ratory, ready for O:n experimeut, and that a promised f.'l-
'four WI\S a kind ·of debt ; yes, true said he, but I pro-
l'Dised to teach thee at my return, with this provhlo, 'if it were
forbidden.' · . .
'Vhen I percc)ved all this in vain, I.earnestly requested a
small crum of his poWrler; sufficient to transmute 1;\ few grains of
lead to gold; and at last out of his philosophical commiseration,
gave me as much as a turnip seed in sue ; saying,
this small' p!P'cel of 'the greatest treasure of tlw ·world, whtch
truly few kings or piince8 have ever IQlown or seen : But I said,
this perhaps will not.transmute f()ur of lead, whereupon
he bid me deliver it back to hjm, wh1Ch in of a _greater
parcel I did; but he. cutting half off with bis nflil, dung
' the fire; and guve me'the rest wrapped neatly up io: blue
o1git1zed by Coogle
.11elvetius.
paper; l!ft/ing, 'it is yet sufficient for thee. I answered him,
indeed with a most dejectod countenance ; Sir, what means this ;
the other being too little, you give me now less. He told me to
put into the crucihle half an ounce of lead, for there ought to bp
no more lead put in than the medicine can transmute; .I gave him
great thank!; for my diminished treasure, concentrated truly in ·
tbe snperlntive degree, and it charily up 'into my little box ;
_
saying, I meant to try it the next day, nor would I reveal it to
any. ' Not so, not so,' said he, 'tor we ought to divulge all
to the children of art, which may tend a1m1e to the honor
«;»f uod,that so they may live in the theosophical truth.' I now
made a confession to him, that while the ml}.ss of his medicine
in my hands, I endeavo,ured to scrape _
a little of it .away ·
with my.nail, a,nd .could not forbear:; but scratched off so very
little, Jt being picked from my nail, wrapped in a paper,
and projQcted on melted lead, I foun,d no tra.nsmutatiO!l ; but
almost the whole mass of lead sublimed, and tbe remainder was a
glassy earth ; at this unexpected account, ·be immediately said,
you -are more dexterous to commit theft than to apply the
medicine ; for if you had only wrapped up the sto'len prey 1o.
yellow wax, to preserve :Jt from the th,!Dcs of the ·lead, it w.ould
sunkto the bottom and tra,nsmuted It to go_ld; but ltav!ng cast
it into the fumes, the violence of the vapour, partly by its sim-
pathetic alliance, carried qte mec:l'icine quite nwl!t. I
him the crucible and .he · perceived a most hcautJfitl saffron hke
sticking to the sides; to :eome next morn.ing
at mne o'clock, to shew me that th'is tmcture would transmute the
Jead into gold. ·Haviug taken ·his leave, 'I impatiently waited his
return ; but next day ne.came nQt,'nor ever since ; he sent :m ex-
_cuse at half past nine thrtt morning,. and promised to come nt
'three in the afternoon, but I never heard of him since ; f soon
began to doubt the wh<Jle matter; late ·that night my wife, who
was a most curious student and enquirer after the art, came soli-
;eiting me to make an experiment of that little grnin of the stone
to be assured of the'truth ; ' unless this be· ·done,' said she,' I
shall have no rest nor sleep this ni&rht ;' she being so earnest, I
· a .fire to he made, &aying to I fear, I fear
mdeed tins man hath deluded me; my wife wrapped the said
·matter in wax, and I cut half an ounce of lead, and put it into a
(:ruciblc in the fire; being .melted, my wife put in the medicine
'made into a small pill with the· wax, ·which 'presentll made n.
nissing noise, and in a quarter of an hotlr the mass of lead was
totally tra.nsmutea into the best and finest gold, wl;tich alllazed us
exceedingly. We could not suflicibntly gaze upon this'admirable
and miraculous w-ork of nature; for the melted lead, affcr pro-
jection, shewed on the fire the rarest and most beautiful
'imaginable, settling i,n greeri; and when poured forth into an
ingot, ·it had the lively fresh colour of blood; when cold, it shined
··as the purcat·and most splendent g(>ld. Truly all those who were
l.
D1g1tized by Coogle
f:'lo
Lives of the Adtpts.
standing about me, were exceedinl7ly startled, and I ran with
this aurified lead, being yet hot, to ilie goldsmith, who wondered
at the fineness, and after a short trial bv the test, said it was the
most excellent gold in the world. •
The next day a rumour of this prodigy went about the
and spread abroad; so that many illustrious and leamcd persons
gave me their friendly visits for its sake : amonf5st the rest, the
general Assay-master, examiner of coins of this province of
Holland, .Mr. Porelius, who with others, earnestly besought me
to pass some part of the gold through all their customary trials,
which I did, to gratify my own curi<,Jsity. We went to Mr.
Brectel a silversmith, who first mixed fimr parts of silver with
one part of tl1e gold, he filed it, and put aquafortis to it, dis-
solved the silver, an<J let the gold precipitate to the bottom ;
the solution being poured off, and the calx of gold washed with
water, then reduced ami melted, it appeared excellent gold : and
instead of a loss in weight, we found the gold was increased, and
h.ad transm1jted a scruple of the silver into gold br its abounding
tmcture.
Doubting whether the silver was now S\JffieientiY. S!!parate<l
from the gold, we mingled it with seven parts of antimony,
which we melted and poured out into a cone, and blew off the
Tegulus on a test, where we missed eight grains of our gold, but
after we blew the rest of the antinlony, or superfluous
scoria, we found nine grains ofgold for our grains
yet it was pale and silver-like, but recovered its full colour after.;.
wards ; so that in the best proof of fire we lost nothing at all of
this gold ; but gained as aforesaid. These tests I repeated three
times, and found it still alike; and the silver remaining out of
the aqtJI!fortis, was of the very best flexible silver that could be, ·
so that in the total, the said medicine or elixer, had 'transmuted
six drams and two scruples of the lead IUld into most
gold. · · · · .·
BERlGARD OF PISA.
CLAunE BE1UGARD was a celebrated Italian philosopl;er, author
of Ci1·ettlus Pisanus, published in Horence, 1641 ; from beini
n credulous man, he was inclined to scepticism. These ·are hts
own words, page 2.5.-" I did not think that it was possible to
convert quicksih•er into gold, but an ·acquaintance thought
.per to remove my doubt; he gave me about a drachm of a:
powder, nearly of the colour of the wild poppy, and having a
smell like calcined sea salt; to avoid all imposition, I purchased
a crucible, charcoal, and quicksilver, in which I certain,
that there was no gold mixed; ten drachms of quicksilver which
I heated on the fire;, was on projection .transmuted into nearly
the same weight of good gold, which stood all lJad I J;lOt
o1git1zed by Coogle
· Anonymous Adept.
performed this operation in the most careful manner, taking
every precaution against the possibility of doubt, I should not
nave believed it, but I am satisfied of the fact.''
ANONYMOUS ADEPT.
ATHANASIUS KrRCHER, a German jesuit, retired to Rome in
1640, where he wrote and published 22 vols. folio, and eleven in
4to. He records in his Mund11s Subterraneus, that one of his
frien<ls, whose veracity he could not doubt, related to him aa
follows:-' From my youth', said this honest man, 'I made a
peculiar study of alchemy, without ever attaining the object of
that science. In my course of experiments, I received a yisit
from a man who was entirely unknown to me : he asked very
politely, what was the object of my labours, and without giving
me time to reply, he said, I see very well by these glasses and'this
furnace, that you are engaged in the search of something great in
chemistry; but believe me you never will, in that way, attain to
the .object you desire. I said to him, ' Sir, if you have better
instructions, I flatter myself that you will give them.' Willingly,,
this generous unknown : immediately 1 took a pen and
wrote down the process he dictated ; and to shew you the result,.
&aid d1e let us both work together, to what
you have written. We proceeded, and our operatiOn being
finished, I drew from the chemical vessel a brilli&nt oil, it con-
gealed into a mass, which I broke into powder. I took a part
of this powder and projected it on three lmndred pounds of
quicksilver, it was in a little time converted into pure gold, much
more perfect than that of the mines; it endured all the proofs of
d1e goldsmiths.' ·
c A prodigy so extraordinary struck me with surprise and asto-
nishment, I became almost stupid; aud as another Crresus, I
fancied I possessed all the riches in the universe. My gratitude
to my benefactor was more than I could express : he replied that
he was on his travels, and wanted no assistance whatever; but
gratifies me,' says he, 'to counsel those who are unable to
complete the herm.etic _work.' I pressed l1im to remain with me,
but he retired to his inn ; day I called there, but what was.
my surprise, at not finding him in it, or at any place in the town.
· lllad questions to ask him, which left me in doubt. I rc-
tu.rned to work according ro the receipt, and failed in the result ;
I repeated the process with more care; it was all in vain ! Yet l
persevered Wltill had eX-pended all the transmuted gold, and the
greater part of my own property.' ,
· ' We see', says Father Kircher, gravely, 'by this true history,
l.l.ow the seeks. to deceive .men who are by a of
riches; This alchemist was convmced he l1nd an mfcrnal YJsltor,
and he destroyed his books, furnace, m)d apparatus, by the timely
of hi» confissotl ·
o1git1zed by Coogle
•
Li.t•ts of the A-depts.
THE ADEPT 1\'IERCH.ANT OF
Tars anonymous possessor of unlimitro v.;ealth has left nothing
in writing, and wo"ld be unlmewn to the world, but that he-
performed a transmutation bt-fore Gustavus Adolphus, King of
·in Pomernnijj, about the year 1620. The gold was
coined in medals, bearing the king's effigy, with the reverse,.
Mercury and Venus. . .
· The adept did not appear opulent ; as a merchant he never was
observed t9 enter into any commercial busines:;, except a tran-
l>liction by which he did not profit ; but after his death, there
were 1700,000 crowns fimnd in his house.-See Borrichius, and
?tlonoon's travels, p. - ·
AT BERLIN.
ON. the commencement of the eighteenth century, a get:tlc-
J'TI:tn presented himself to the King of Prussia, at Berlin, pro-
posing to communicate the secret of transmutation. The king
desired to see a proof of it, and the Ot)eration was .Performed
before him, with all the necessary precautions against imposition.
The projection succeeded perfectly: the artist promo-
tion, but he was desired to make n. similar which ha
acknowledged he could perform. He fitiled in the attempt, and
instead of be.il'lg promoted at court for his communications, a
charge was him for due.lling several before-.
ai1d he was accordmgly beheaded. Thts story was venfied to the
Abbe Lenglet at Paris. ·
TRANSMUTATION BEFORE THE DUKE OF
SAXONY•
.A transmutation at Dresden, before Frederick Augustus, wa&
performed aboot the year 1715; by an apothecary's boy. Here-
lated that a sick traveller, whom he attended in Berlin, had, oa
his recovery, given him the powder of projection, in a quantity
sufficient to establish him ·for life. The result of his vanity, in
a phenomenon so dangerous to the landed and com-
mercial interest, was a condemnation to death, which he escaped
by professing the secret of making delft equal to china : he suc-
ceeded in the att::mpt, which laid the foundation of the Dresden
manufitctorics. His ,·iciom; disposition now broke out, he mixed
'a pO\Hkl' with the }Jtcpared clay Of the por«Jaia
Dogitozed by Coogle
Count Cagllostrg.
lnalrers, and ,fled to Austria. On l1is return l1e Will 'COnfined
in the Castle of ¥eissen,. where he <lied. · The Abbe Lenglet
was assured by M. Bray, Minister of the Elector <;>f Saxony, that
he witnessed the fact of transmutation at Dresden.
COUNT CAGLIOSTRO..
. JosEPH Count Cagliostro, was born at Palermo, ia
174-3; he was instructed in the secret chemistry by Altot.as, aa
.Arab, whom he met at Messina.-They embarked for Alexandria,.
and performe4 several operations, by which they procured
sums of Altotas cpuld speak greek fluently, and had.
sc\•cral arabic manuscripts ; he instructed Balsamo in
languaaes, and in occult philosophy. They passed to Malta, and
worked in the laboratory of the grand master Pinto. · Altotas
<lied soon after; and visited Naples, in company with a
Knight of Malta. .He acquired the reg!lrd of Pril'.ce Caramanco.
a lover of chemistry, who brought him to see his estate in
Sicily. After this Balsamo appeared to sell drawings, at Rome,.
for his support ; but was at the time in private intimacy
wit& the Pope, several Cardinals and Princes; llJllODgst these •
·was afterwards Clement 14th. He married .Lo-
xenza in.this ; they :traTelled.as. pilgrims through
Sardinia and.Genoa, living up.on .alms, and reaching Barcelona,.
proceeded to Madrid; from that he went Portugal; hi$
wife leamed the English language; he vested his riches in
jewellery, and they emharked for Loudon, where he devoted his
leizure to chemistry. The he were o£
great value--Jte had a watch cl1ain c9:qsiatwg ofthree rows . of
diamonds,-and pendants with of diamonds, which was-
worth fifteen hundred poundi ; apawnbroker in Princes-street,.
lent five hundred on it. His w&tch and .l\fadame Caglios.tro'•
·rings, necklaces, and gold were enriched with diamonds
and pearls. A large quantity of topazes,, wh.ic4,he collected at
Lisbon, were now .stolen from by Sicilian named Vivona; ··
and he was :thrown into prison for the rent of his lodgings, in
Whitcomb-street;·be soon after obtq.ined his liberty, and went
to Paris, and there sold a pomade or wash, for the
.no; he·also made some chemical operations .in augmentation of
8old,_ for two ap1ateurs, and for where he
1mpnsoned on pretence of h1s acquawtance w,1th the Marq\us
Maurigi, who was of forgery; but on being liberated,
.he went to Malta, retmned to Naples, took his wife's father and
brother in.to. fazqily, and. brought them to ·Marseilles and
Cadiz, where he left them and proceeded with.his wife to London.
.The noise of his wealth induced many .sharpers to pet'Secute him
fal.se arreiti, until wme IJ19Yed
' - '
o1git1zed by Coogle
LitJts of tlze Adept!.
to punish these conspirators. He was now called Connt Cngo-
liostro ; he had a medicinal liquor called Egypti!lll wine, and sold'
eertaio restorative powders ; he lived in elegant apartments in
Sloan-street, attended by a numerous retinue of servants in rich
liveries, and saw company frequently with magnificence and hospi-
tality. He attended the sick poor, giving them medicine and.
money. In the s11.me manner he pttssed some time in Yarious
German States and at Pacis, until he was imprisoned in the
Bastile, on suspicion, when Queen's diamond necklace was
11tolen by Madame La Motte; while'in prison, his bureau was
l'Obbed of 7.?0 double louis d' or, 12SS roman sequins or crowns,
.£4< double doubloons, and·47,000 livres, in bills. On his libera-
tion and return to Lbndon, he predicted the destruction of the
-Bastile, and that a prince at length will reign in France,
who will establish true religion. After a series ofsimilar adven-
turee, Cagliostro was arrested at Rome, tried and found guilty of
having founded an ord!"r of Freemasons, and was sentenced to
perpetual imprisonment. See the life of Cagliostro, written b1
.,rder of the Inquisition at Rome. ·
DELISLE.
liE was a rustic oflow birth in Provence;who in the year1708,
attracted general notice; by transmuting lead and iron into
silver· and He put an ail and powder on the iron, and then
igniting it m the fir¢, it came forth a bar of gold. Cerisy, prior
'ot' New Castel, was etttployed by the Bishop of Senez, to col-
lect and recite the facts 1 and he obtained some.of the pc)wder
wherewith he·made three pounds weight of pure gold out of lead.
The alchemist was invited to court, but he pretemkd, that the
climate he ·lived in was necessary to the success of his experi..
ments, as his were vegetable. He exposed his pro:.
jections to innumerable witnes,Ses, and freely gave the produce
in gold bars, nnils, and ingots, to persons of rank, who witnessetl
<the transmqtations. 1'he Baron of Reinvald and his lady, with an
alchemist named &uv_eur, who studied the science for fifty years
in min, ·were present, and obtained gold made of base metal
.before their eyes, which stood the test of the goldsmith.
Delisle nt this time was thirty five years old; he had been
·considered for. five years a fool or a deceiver, because he 1\·as
1..-orking for an alchemical gentleman; but now his employer was
and the noblemen of the country paid great respect tQ
).)elisle.
Mr. St. Aubin endeavoured mvain to teach him to read
write; but lte appeared untractably rude, and·a fanatical ravei.
He was told he might humble the enemiCij of France, but
only answered by a loud laugh. · · .. · · · ·
o1git1zed by Coogle
Delisle. 87
ln Lenglet's history of hermetic philosopl1y, tbere·is·a letter
from the Bishop of Senez, to the Minister of State and Comp-
troller General of the Treasury at Paris, in. which the
who was at first incredulous, professes tl1at he could not .resist
the of actual transmutation performed before him and
several vigilant witnes
. ses, who took eTery preeat;ttion to prevent
deceit. There is also a certificate of the·Mint-Master at Lyons.
to the following facts ;-That he was accompanied by Delisle and
others, and went to the garden ofthe Castle, where he uncovered
·a that was sunk in the ground, and took from a \\'ire a rag
tied up-the contents were exposed to the sun tor a quarter of au
hour, and appeared a blackish earth ofabout half a pound
this was distilled in a retort by a portable furnace, and when a
yellow liquor was perceived to flow into the receiver,,Delisle recom-
mended that the recipient should be removed b.Jfore a viscious
oH which was rising should follow it. Two drops of the yellow
liquor, projected on hot quicksilver, produced, in fusion, three
of gold, which was presented to the Minister ofState.-
Secondly, three ounces of pistol bullets "'ere melted and purified
with alum and saltpeb;e, Delisle handed a small paper to
Q(.'Siring him to throw in a pinch of the powder and two drops of
oil of the first experim.ent, and then covering the matter with
saltpeter, it was kept fifteen minutes in fusion, and was then poured
out on a piece of iron armour, where it appeared pure gold,
all assays. The coqversion to silver was made in the
manner with white 'This certificate was signed
cfficially 14th .:Pecember, 1710. ·
The gold made by the M.lnt-Mastel', Maurice, with Delisle's
powder and oil, was coined into medals, inscribed, Aurum arte
.factum, which nrc deppsited in the Museum at Versailles.
Delisle having evaded invitations to Court, on pretence
that he was disappointed in the proper herbs, once
by the war occqpying the 'moqntain of Palu, and again that (he
summer was passed, .when he r,eceived his Majesty's commands,
and therefore be could not a transmutation of magnitude
worthy exhibit to the King ; the Bishop of Sencz, sus-
pecting him of unwillingness, ·rather than inability, obtained a
letter de caclzet, to con,luct·him tQ the Bastile. His guards on
the road endeavouring to extort'his supposed riches, wounded
l1im, in which state on his m·rival at the Bastile, he was forced
to undertake alchemical operations, but produced nothing, and
died .the following -,ear.. : . .
. H1s son Aluys, 1nhented some of the powder, WJtb whtch he
mude projection before the Duke of Richlieu, then French Am-
bassador at Vienna, who assured the Abbe that he not
cnly saw the operation, but performed it l1imselt, twice on gold,
and forty times on
Aloys made a considerable collection of gold coins, ancient
AQ.d modern, while on his journey through Austria and Bo-
o1git1zed by Coogle
8S Live& ef tlze .Adepts
lleinift. On his retum to Aix, he preSerited himself to the
Pi't.'Sident of Provence, who desired· him to call the next day,
Aluys, an intention to arrest him, fled ;-he
Afterwar,ds imprironed at Marseilles, from whence he 'escaped to
Brussells. It was here in 1731, that he gave some philosophic
mercury to Mr. Percell, the brother of Abbe Lnnglet, which he
f(•nnented imperfectly, but succeeded so far as to convert an ·
ounce ofsilver into gold. The death ofa Mr. Grefier shortly
some c)peratioris on rorrosive.sublimate, by which he proposed
to i!Jstruct him in alchemy, made it necessary for bim to depart1
he was heard of no more. · · ' · ·
EIRENJEUS PHILALETHES.
I '
THE name of this artist wns never discO\·ered to the public:-:
110me authors mistake liim for Thomas Vaughan, an Oxford
·scholar, who wrote onder the name of Eugenitis
.$CVeral works that m·e not esteemed; his Aula lucis, by S.·
shews the last letters of his real name.
· Eirenreus, in l1is preface to The shut palace opened, thus ex-
presses himself: ' I being an adept, anonymon, and lover o(
leanung, DECREED to write this little Treatise of physical
in the year 1645, in the twenty-tliird year of niy age, to pay mj
duty to the sons of art, and lend I:IJY nand to bring them out of
the labyrinth of error, to shew the adepti that I am a brotl1er
.:'qual to them. I presage many will be by
n1y labours. .They are no fables, but real experime1its, wh1ch
I have seen, made, an·d kt'low, as any adept will understand.
I have often inwriting laid aside m;-·pen, because Lwas willing
to have coticealed the truth under the mask of em'Y ; but God.
compeJled me to write, whom I could not resist: He alone knows
the heart---"to Him only be glot)" for ever.· ,I undoubtedlj
believe, that many will become blessed ill. this 'last age of tlie
world with this arcanum ; I have· written faithfully, and left no-
thing intentionally doubtful to a young beginner. ·I know mnny,
who with me, enjoy this arcanum; may the will ofGoil be done;
I confess ·mysdf unworthy of effecting such I
the holy will of God, to whom all things are subjected 1-
Hc created and preserves them to this end.' In the preface to
l1is Commentary on Ripley, Eireurens writes: ' For my own
vart, I have cause to honour Bernard Trevisan, who is ,·cry
ingenuous, especially in the letter to Thomas of Bou!ognc,
where I seriously confess, I received the main light, in the hidden
secret. I do not remember, that ever I learneil any thing frmn
U.:ymond .Lully ; some who are not adepts. give more ·instnic-
ticn to a beginner, than ·ohe whom perfect knowledge makes
(;aut!cus. I learned the svcrct of' the· mag1iet H-om one; tlie
...
o1git1zed by Coogle
.efaolybs from the uAe of Dia11a's doves fi·om a third, .the:
air or came.liofl fi·om another, the gross. preparation of tho
dissolvent P1 .the number of eagles in another ; but for
operpiions the lrue matter and si&ns of t.
he true merczery,·
l of like Ripley, thougf: Flame! be. eminent.-
1 !rn<?w hav4Jg expe.t:ience what truth
and what ts errDr. .
' 'I ha:ve read sopl1istical writers, and made many
tonsome, labol'ious experiments, bu.t young ; and hnving
through the undes.er:red · of·God, arrived .at.
m)' haven of rest, I shallatretcli out my to such as are be-:
hmd. I have wrote several Treatises; ·one in English, very
f
' lain but not perfected ; unfortuna\ely·it out of my h1111d.
shall be sorry ifit comes abroad into the w01'1d; Two·in Latin.
Breuis ad l"lfhinem ct:Elestum ; and !Jons clz.!j1niiteplzi-
losophite :-these SJ>CCi.., .rellS()ns, I tD suppress.-
Two othe.rs I y;rote, wl:tich viz.
Ars metattorttWJ meta11Ulrpkoses ; and #!ro¥tuS aperlw ail,f?Cclusum
I in Jost;
also m J!!ngl1sh, aD Q{ experullents, · a dturnal of
with many ;recfipts the wh«?,le and
All _: also fel.l'.iJlto of. .who
1 conce1ve wdl never ,restore them.' '
The person allui:led to he}'e, George Starkey, an
apothecary of London, who eJpigrated .to North America. and
.
.Was following his 'j>rofessional liu'sincss :w'hen' he·· hil.Cl the
to receive a visi,t .who ill the course
.of his trjl.vels through tha;t country, stopped i?- city where
Starkey an.d ex,traordinary made ·
known as Ml adept. s:tarke_y returnQd to ;London, and wrote
sevt:r,al books, tt?m ":hich .these
lie ai.ed of the plague m London 1665. A friend
1lis who published 'A 'qfAlclzemy
in English verse; it ·pro'Mbl.y 'contains the poems by
Eirenmus, but·the_
secori<;l book e:vidently includes a narrative by
Starkey of his iriterviews with the ·as 'follows : ' . •
' I have now to assertt from m.y own experience, facts of
transmutation, of which I was an eyE?-witness. 1was well' ac-
quafute? with an W:ith I liave o.ti -
the apd I saw m his possession the whtte and the . red.
elixir, in very large .quantity; he gave me upwards of two
ounces of the white medicine, of sufficient virtue to convert
120,000 times its weight into the purest virgin silver; with
this treasure I to work ignorantly upon multiplicaiioh,
and.was caught in the trap of my own covetousr.ess ; for I ex.;,
or all I made '.pro-
ofpart Oftt, which Js sliffic1ent for my present.purpose
en&:bling rile to assert the posSibility of tlie 4rt from ocular
I )lave tinged many times hUDdreds 9f ounces
,, .. '· . . ..
,
by Coogle
,. .
90 .Adepts.
futo the best or!\pound of mercury, 1 have m'acle .within
a scruple ofa pound ofsilver, of lead little more waste,
but 'tis wondrous to see tin, although a dross was burnt from
yet jts weight increased in the fire. I essayed the medicine oli
copper,. iron, even on brass and pewter, .on spelter, ·solder,
t'inl$lass, mercury, and on regulus of at1timony, and I calt say;
tmth it conquel1! all metallic things, and brings them _
alt
to perfection. I found there was nothing akin to it, but ·
would tinge into pure silver; even perfect gold was penetrated
and changed to a white glass, that would transmute, but iq
small quantit,r; inferior metals, into silver; but when this silver
was a8saycd 1t was found to abide cupel of ahtioiony,
and weighed as gold, so that it was wldte gold; this wa.s
the white tincture·had fermented with red and bofh: vit·tues
coming into produced silver col9ured gold, or silver
equaling gold in perfection but wanting its I did not know
value·ofthis silver till my medicine was nearly g<>ne, ahd sold
ofii the .it was liS
ble as gold. . I proJected the med1cme on pgre had a
thrystalline it}etal, like burnished steel or mirror, but
iw encrcase of in this, it only &0 much a8 it
would if it liad not been projected on . . . '
The artist who gave me is still living; I prize hiin as my.
life, I wish his _
happiness for'he has l5eeri a sut:e
ts at prc8ent on·his travels, visiting'artists, and collecting
quities, as a citizen· of the ·world.-He i11 an Erigli!!hman ot
an ancient honourable family, whonow live in the plac¢'wherein
}le was born; ·he is scarcely thirty·three [ears of age,: and is
rarely learned•.. you cannot know more 0 him from'me, nor
you be acquailited with him, his with me
unexpected as love, was cordial. I had ofteri hy ex..
periment, "thafhe ·was. Qf the w_
hite arid before hq
- to tnist with bit 'of the storie,
would J pt·e5s him, hoping for his courtesy s6on oj l'ate,
l shortly received, by what l of the white
and also a p<)rtion of hi& · · · · . · · .·
He told this. mercury was a treasure, if God. .
open my eyes to the use ·of · el:.e 1 might grope in
blindness. With this diss6lvent, which is the hiuderi secret' of
4ll masters, he exceedipgly m4ltiplied his red stone. ·I saw.him
pqt a of red, bl weigl1t, into sa.me
then dtsS?lved It, t;naqe It colour,, _
Ill
dfi!Js tt passe.d. thrO'llg!t- the ftr!jcess, 9f hfack, . whzte,
fed . . • ' .·, 1 • • • ' .I · · '
' :.
·i that if the red and white oould .be m'ultiplied,. that
qnc lim;a1 progress led to either, and on this false gr<>und,, I de· .
parts in twelve of my medicine; this loss did not
me, I mixt the remp.ining t'Y? parlf.':With ten times its
we1gl1t of luna, and fell to wor'k aiam, hol>mg·to make for
o1git1zed by Coogle
my.first error. I then began to think upon the JDSXin}s o.f
old books, revol\"ed hi my mind of my work wi.th
the laws of nature, and at length I concluded that each tbirig ifJ
to be disposed according to its condition. .· · _ - ··
When I found . my vain · only threw' away ·the
tincture, t stopped my hand, 'resolvii!S -
to keep the few grl).iri'k
left for some urgent necessity, fodts I mixed
with ten parts of luna. · · ·· ·
I tried some of the mercury before mentioned on gold, my ·
being to see the wo.rk carried forward ; and brought to,
luna if not to sol. This then :1 projected on mercury, after
havingalloyed it with silver, it tinged Jifty parts, and I to
imbibe it, but in vain, because I nad let it cool. I foolishly
supposed to attain the red by imbibition ; however, nature car-
ried on .its work into blackness the colours, and whiteness, )Vhich
yet was .fin· short of what I looked fo1·. ·· : ' ; ···
In these I wasted nearly all my but
l had for my consolation, the witnessing of transmutations,
.these extraordinary processes, which .I with .q1ine own
eyes, and blessed God for seeing. · · , . ·" ·
In some time l met my good friend and (old all tny ·nlisl.tap!,
hoping that he would supply before; but ·he con'sidering
.that my failures had made me wise, would not · trust irie :with
more, lest I shouldpluck the Hesperian tree as I chose for biy
own and other rriens hurt. He said to me,.' friend, i(- God elects
:you to this art, he will, in due time, bestow the knowledgeof it;
J>ut it' ill his wisdom he judges you unfit, or·that you do
mischief with.it, accursed be that man ·who would arm a maniac
to lwrt of his fellow creatures. While you 'Were I
gave you a great gift, so that if Heaven ordained, the grit should
destroy itself. . I see it is not right you should enjoy it at presen4
what providence denies, I cannot give you, or I should •
be
guilty of your misconduct! · . · · ' ·· ·· •
I confess .this of. divinity did not please me, I hoped
.•o much from him, his answer WllS a disappointment. .. He further
:said, that God hn'd granted me knowledge,- but withheld the
fruit.,of it for present. · . · . · · ·
· Then I gave hilll to·understand how I l.tad discovered ·!the
skill of water ,; "by which, in may obtain
deny,. and wbich I am resolved to.llttcnipt.'" . ·· · ·
· " If so tnent·.he replied, ·" attend to what I say; and ·
may bless Gpd for .it. Kriow that we are severelY''bOtihd by
strong vows, nevei· t? supply any man.by our ·art, 'wAb
cpnfound the world, ·Jf he held It at wtlh and all tlie•evJl he
.tJOes is left at the 9oor <>f that adept who is so impr'!Jdeht. ·Con-
sider what a prize you had' both of tlte stone aqd
would not any one say, he p1Ust be mad that would tHrow it
away w).thout . . · - · · · :. · . · · · ,
. • t ,.
• • • ·- ,., . •. .:.... ..· ._.-. • • .4
o1git1zed by Coogle
' .
· Lives of the .Adepts.
' f ' .
:· c Had you been guided by reason you might have enough .,r .
,what I gave you. Your method was to add to the purest gold,
but a of the stone, in fusion it would unite to it,. and then
you m•ght go about the work with your mercury, which would
,speedily mix with gold, and greatly shorten the work,
.which yqu might easily to the t·ed; 311d llS' yon saw Jlow I
wedded new gold to melt sulphur and 1nercury, you saw the
. .ti.t.Re, and · whai more you have wished'•
.Antt seemg you know the art of prepnrmg the.fte'Y meri:fv!J, you
might have as much store as any one.'
' But do you not perceive by this, that God is aYcrie to you, ,
and caused you to waste the treasure I gave you. He sees, per·
llaps, that You '!'OulcJ break his holy laws, and do wrong with it:
..and though be has imparted so mnch knowledge, I plainly sec
he will keep you· 10me without the enj.oJDlent of
wJpch no donbt you would J'lllsus£'. Know, that 1f you seek this
;art without a ferment, you must beware af freqDE'nt eti'or;
will err and stray from the right path, notwithstanding all your
care, and perhaps may not in the ofyour life attain this
.treasure, which is the alone ·gift of Gc,xi. lf you pursue the
·atraigh&est course, it will take a year to arrive at perfection ; but
,if you take wrong wnys, you shall be often left behind, sometime&
a year, and mllit )'caew your .charge and pains, repenting of
.your ,k,ss •d erior1 in much distractl4ln, care, al1d perils, with
an expence you,can hardly spare. .Attesd therefore to my conn·
' ael, and.I .ball disclose the acaet SWear before
the mighty God, that you wilJ, for such a time, abstain fi:ora.
the attempt or nor shall you in that time, eveD ifyott
are at abe point of death, di'sclose some few points tliat I win
,reveal to you in secrecy. I swore, and he unloclted his mind to
.me ancl p_roved that he did deceive, by shewing me those
light.s,, which I &ball hone.tly recout14 as far as my oath will
adm1t. .
... The shut palAce contains tLe following remark..
.able of Eireneus, by bimeelf:-' AU alchemical books,'
aays he, ' abound wich obscure eniginas or' aophiefical operations ;.-
. .1! have not mitteu in this stile, lieving resigned my will to the
, ,diviQe pleasure• . Ida not fear that the art wiU be-disesteemed,
because I write plainly, for true wisdom will defend its own
Jwnor. I.wisll silver were as mean in esteem as earth,
then we need not so stricdy oonceill o,UTselves. For we are lik4t
Cain, driven from the pleasant society we formerly bad withoul
.fear; now we are to&Sed up and down as if beset with furies;
nor can w_e suppose ouraelves safe in any one place long. We
· weep and aigb; complaining to the LOrd,· ' behold wliosoever
;)Jhall will .lay qte ;' we travel through many nations lit•
vngabonds, and dare. not take upon the care of a family-
nt·ithcr do we possess any certain habitation:. althoug!l wepossestt
all we t few ; what, therefore, do we eojcq
o1git1zed by Coogle
Eireiur.us ·PhUalelhe1. 9!
.
·except of .our .Marty strlingers 'to the
art, 1magme that 1f they enjoyed It, they would do great ·good
110 1 believed but the danger l have' experienced has
taught me otherwise. Whoever encounters thb eminent peril of'
his life, will act with more eaution thenceforward. l found the
'World in a moo;t wicked state, scarce a man bUt is. by
eome selfish and unworthy motive, .however honest or upright
he is judged in public. An adept cannot effect tbe worn of
mercy to nn uncommon extent in
to the secrecy of others; and this IS at the hazard of unprAtJOnment
and death. I. lately had a proofcJf it, .fOr being in a fureigrt
place,I administered the medicb1e to some distressed poor persons
who were dying, nnd they having miraculously recovered, there
was immediately a rumour spread abroad of the elixir of life,
in so much that 1 was forced · to fly by night, with exceeding
great trouble; having changed my clothes, sha•ed my ·head, put
on other hair, and altered my name; else l would have faileD
into the hands of wicked men that lay in wait for me, merely
on suspicion, excited by the thirst of gold. · I could mention
othet da:bfJer'S, which would seem ridiculous to thoee who did.
not stand in a similar situation. They think they would Ibanage
their affairs better, but they do not consider tho.t all those intel-
people, wh,oBe society is chiefly desimble, are ell'tremel7
· and a slight conjecture is enough to f>rodw:e a con-
spiracy ; tor the iniquity of men is 110 great, that I have know!\
a pers<>D to have been stmngled with a halter on
although he did not possess the art, it WllS sufficient:thnt a des-
perate man heard a report of it. This abound• with ak.he·
mists, llowever ignorant of science, they know sufficient
discover an adept, or to suspect him.-An appearance of eecrecy
will cause them to search and examine f!!Yery circumstance ot.•
your Ifyou cure the sick, or sell a large quantity .of gol4,
the news is circulated all through the neighbourhood. -The gold-
•mith knows that the metal is too fine, and it is contrary to luw
for any one to alloy it who is not a regulal" metallurgist. I once
.sold pure silver· worth .8600, in a foreign coantry; the gold-.
amith, notwith.;taoding I was dressed as a merchant, coid -me
' this silver is made by art.' I asked ,he reaeon he -said so, he .
replied, ' I know the siJyer that come&from Spain, Englnnd, &c.
this is purer than any of them kinds.' Hearing this I withdrew;
there is no better silver in trade than the Spanish, but if I had
attempted to reduce my silver from its superior purity, and wu
disco\'cred, I would be hanged for '. I never
for either the si1ver or the price -of it. · '!he of gold.
and silver from one country to ,another, u regvlauui -by
laws, and this is to condemn adept who appears to
have a quantity of it-·thus being taught _
by these I
have determined to lie JUd, aod will cqmmu,nicate the.art·to th;:e
D1g1tized by Coogle
.Li'Oes P.l11ze Adepts,
'
-.ho of perfonning public ¥ood, that we may s,ee wbac
)'OU will uo(i!!rtake wh,en, fbU ohtain It. . .
l'he of all kuo.ws that I writ(! the truth ; nor
'is there a.ny cause to accuse me of envy, I write with al). unter-
JJifieP quill of:stile, to the hono,r of God, to the
P.rofit pf my neighbours, of the wodd and it¥
J'!thes; becatl$e ELIAS the art19t 18 already born; and now glori-
ous things declarOO. of the city of God1 1d,are affirm, that I
do pos6ei$. more riches than the whole knowl) world is worth;
hut I cannot tiny use of it; be£a4Se of the snares or
I. 4isdain .anc.l detest the idolizing of silver·and '
by the }>(>mps and vanities of the world are cele-:-
l>rat¢d, Ab, filthy !.ab, vain. nothingness !-Believe ye
.conceal. out of enyy? no verily, I protest to
w-ieve ..the very of my.soul, that we are driven a&
Jt were ltke from the face of the Lord throughout the
.But :wliat. need many the. t.bing we have
Uught 8Jld tnade, which we have, possess,. and 'kn.ow, that we
do oeclare ; beiqg with for the .studious, and
Mth indignation of gold, silver1 and precious stones ; not .u
they. are creatures of God ; far be it from us; for in that respect
.we honor them; and thiuk them worthy of esteem""'7but the peo-
fl).e of God tld<>rc them as well.as the world; therefore let thein
· .Le.groutld. to powder like .the golden calf! I do hope and
pect, that within a few years, .money be •as dross; and that
.prop of the anti-christian beast; will .be dashed to pieces. :The
people are mad, the nations rave, .an wight . is se.t
.upJn.the place of Ood. 4t our expected a,nd approaching
.redemption, the new Jerusalem shall.abouqd with gold in .the
the ther«::f shall be made with entire stones,
ones, and the tree.of life in midst of paradise,
.give leaves for the kealinc .of the nations. . I know these, my
writings, will be ·. to men as pure gold ; aud through them gold
nnd silver will become vile HS .dirt. Believe me, the tiine is at
·the door ; I sec it il). spirit; When we,. adeptists, shall rcturit
.from the corners of th,e earth,; nor shall we fear any snares
:that are laid against our lives ; but we shall give thanks to tb.e
Lord our God. I wou}d to .God, that every ingenious m&Jl..
in the whole. earth undentood this sci«:nce, then .it would only
;be valued for its wisdom; virtue only, would be had iJt
.honour. I know many iadcpts wbu have vowed a m06t
.ailence-1 am of another judgment, becallse of the hope I havtt
in my God; therefore I consulted not witll my brethren, or
dlcsh ·and blood, ip my writil}gs : GOf}.gt!Ult tQat .it be
.the &lory.of his
o1git1zed by Coogle
• !
•
,. • 'I; ..... f ',\ , · . ' • '
. ' .: , . .
.• . J. · .1 • • •
lo . ' ' . \ . '
;
..'.:·.·' :'.:'
, · . •,_ •1:.. . ' . . .... (. _} . ..' !. ·. ·
. / i ; '. ·: : , t . . ' . : • .'
o1git1zed by Coogle
95 vf.lchemical Books.
S9 ANCIENT war of Knights, htJ 4n aifept, l#mo. I.f>nd. 1723
40 4PHORJSAJS, Lond. 1680
41 KIN<i- ALJ;'HONso; of the PhilOIJ. Stone, 4to. Lond. i652
42 W, pyrotechl)ica, · Paiis. J657
AJJ.TEPHius, adept l2tk cint. secret book, Lond.I657
.u Artis s. vols. 8vq. ' I Ba8il, 1610
45 4-ndreae i\LCiATA, emblamata, · Patav.
46 A:URIFONTlNA, chym. 14 tracts phil. meJ:"c. 24, Lol)d. 1680
fl .E. M. ABRUS, tree of life, 8vq. ·· · . Lond; l68S
18 Elia5 Theat. Cpen:i. Brit$Zll«<um, .25, tracti1 · '·
: .Englzsk ndepts, 'esteemed, 4to. · I.on.
49'Do.' Jame4 bv
. A. ·
· ' 8vQ,' · · · .' · " ' · ·.· . , <( · Lond. 165()
'IJ.oGEJt'BACON, ailept, art pf . -....;..
1q The same, Mir!or of alfhemy, a tr;eatise,,
-· of alc!wmc, -
5S Idem, o'pus maJUS, ad IV. fol.. D,ul17
the·s\tme. of old .and 'ff..·. ·
: . . . youth,.'Svo. · LOnd. l683
55 . · · · medicipe of antimony, 16. . -- 1683
- ::-·R,adix 12. - 1692
i7 opus mmus. M. S. lAmbet{l Lzhrmy, Lond. -
_ ¥
.. ·_I 11Jfl,Jf!Y, 8 11remarum de doTU} Dez. 4 abbrevtazum
. Lebtzt viridi,··5 Secretorum, 6 triuin Veib'orum,
: : v ·'fSprcUJurn $eci·etorum. Seven Franco£ l60S
lrlcin secretis'operibus·arti11 & 8vq. Hamb. 159&
'Fr; BACON Lord verulam i of metals; f. .Lond. 1670
61 Geo>BAKER; new jewel orhealth; 4to: . .. . ·' LoDa. 1576
62 J. 'tract. lap. :
phil. rare, fvo. •Lug. 1599
Idem Spechio clUmico, 8vo: · ' I • ·' • • • }tome. 1624 '
64 :yenet. i892
6,!) c.· A. BALDUIN'I aurre supertori&, limo. . Amt. 1675
Ejus.d. Phospliorus Herme8 Curiqs. · ;,__ 1680
ro,tivral?e de ftiiiivers, . ' P.llfis.
J. · c. eleD:lenta chemue, 78 alf.i. e'ltlhle11JI. '
.' : . ' . .• ' : ' .. . .. . . ' . 'Litg. Bat. PIS:
r,g_N.·B..\nNAUDI,tttt)11Jpiler,'trig& Ll!g. Bat.I6oq
71>·tabr. ftAR'fOLRTr, hermeticp medica, 4to · · :Bopon.
7l .·FILEUM arilidliC, per Henrie a. BatfdorfF, . 'fhot'i639
G. azt)th. solide 4t;o.. .
73 Baron BE+USOLE1L, De 'Matcna Lap1d1s, 8vo. 1627
74 .T. J. BEcHER, transmutations at 'Vienna, Lond. 1681
15 physica subterranea, esteemed, 8vo. Leip. 1
'16 Idem; hermeticre, 4to. · MogQ!l.
77•Idem, Oedipus·Arnst. 17 Laboratium, Svo. F.r:art 1680
7s Ejusd. opera omnia, v. f. in German. . ...:.;;:;..;.·
'79 BEGUmus, Tyrocininm chemicum, · Lond. 1669
80 Lib. J)ocleus sophicns,
o1git1zed by Coogle
.Alchemical Books. 91
'81A. C. BENZJUS, anlumg cler Weisen, Svo. Hamb. l69<t
62 Idem, tractatcn de menstrno uuiversali, 8vo. Nurem. 1709
83 lapis phiios. soo medicina univer. Svo. Franc. 171-41
Idem, thesaurus processuum chemicorum, 4to. Nurem. 1715
85 John de de philosophie, - -:---
86 BERJCHT, von universal an neyen, S:vo. - 1709
,87 de D\edicina universali, 4to. Jena,' l679
138 BERNARDI, COmitia, adept, dechimin, l!mo Geism. 1647.
:89 · - traite de 1' reuf philos: 8v_o. Paris. 1659.
:
90. . . epi.11tle to Thomas of Bonon.ia, 24-, Lond. 168()
1 . antiqui opus·de cb'imia,.curious, 8. Argent. 156'1
;92 - -Trevisan'sfountain, · · LOnd. ___;..
:93 . . La Turoo des philosophes, ,8v.o: · ·p91is. I 61's' ·
94 - - La parole delsssee, 12mo. - 1672
'95 De chimico miraculo, 8ve. Basil. 1600
96 P. BEnoALDE, histoire des trois princes,·t·v.'8Yo: 161()
97 - : - - Le pslm·de cmieul;. poetpe, }!mo. );'ar1s. 158+
98 . Le cal,inet de ininervai, '8mo. ltouen. 1601
99 M. BERTE.MxU, 1:estitution de Pluton,·SmQ. Paris. 1648
'00J.'B. de lapide.pbysico, 4to. · ·Au..... 1617
101 D. BEUTHER, {lived in 1.780,) universaie, HnmC. 1718
.lOt.! 0. BicJtERI Hermes 8vo.· · ·' Hnnov. 1620
lOS A'. G. Bt:UIKm,' de tnbmpri;ncipiis, '8vo. Bremen. 1621
Ej_\lsdem, Brem. l625
}05 · ,asseruonem La1,1reptiergto,
106 0. B . BlREI.LI, del,\lchllina, 4to. · F1renze.
107 ·Sol: BL.lWENSTEIN, 'contra KirchetVm" 4tq. Vienna. i6G7
BoDENS1'EIN, a Paracelsian, opera varia, 1577, ·
4-9, son of'Carlostad, the Reformer, t'ol. &8'11. 1581
109 Jac<rb BEHMEN'sworks, by W. Law, 4 v. 4to. Lond. 1781
ilo The ;sa,me, by EUiston and Sparrow, 10 v•.f..to. Lond. 1659
Ill . · miroir temporel de l' eternite, Fran. 1664!
112 Idre chiOJire ade}>tre B9HMIANJE, :J:2ino. Arnst. 1690
) lS Edw. Bol.NESTI, chim'ica, · Lond. 1672
114 Minera del Biondo, G. M. BoNAlt.DQ, 8vo. Mantua. 1591
115 Samuel magical l?ut natuTal physic, 8. Lon. 16.56
P. Bowo, an adept, Margarita Novella, 4to. ' Basil, 1572 '
117 Idem, introductio, in divinnm alchimin, 8. - - 1602
118 De secreto omnium secretorum, 8Yo. V enet. 1546
il9 I. D. BoNNEAU de I' astronomie-inferieure, 4-to. Pnr.l636
De .la BonDE de 1' enigme trou\'e a un piilier, 4to: Par. 16S6
121 BoRELLI; Hermetic, catalogue, 12mo. Par. 1654-
122 G: ·F. Bona1, Ia chiave del cnbinetto, ihis ar·tist · d{ed in
· prison at RmiJe, 1695, aged 70. 12mo. · Colon. 1681
123 0. BoRRICHIUs progrcssu chemire, 4to. Hathin. 1668
l24 Hon_. Robert BoYL:E:s rnlply edit. · .
125 .J: BucEsCHI, Gebn exphcat, 4to. ·Lugd. 1548
l26 Ricb¥d BRADLY, workofnature, rare1 8yo. Dub.172l
127 P. BRACHEL, German, onspuriouspotablegold, 8. Col. 1607
128 M. ErbipeutBRANDAW, 12. col\1.UUJ,re naturre, 8. Lip. !68
)i
Alchemit;al,Bo.ok«. 1.
J. F. B.&EBIL, concur!ius philos. avo. , . . lefUl.
l30 Zac. de $uro agit,,S:vo. ,,..,'- - 163<?
:J,31 And. Ba.ENTZIUs, Patav. Farr8JIP.philos. 8\'0• . .Amb.
Le BRE'I'ON, clefs de Ia philos. IZ_
. ·Pin:i.s.
iss J. D. Bn.oAtrLT, des planets }.le.rmctique, 4to•. , 1644
BucHLEIN, von fru·ben der alc;hiroisten, Svo. · .. ·;---:- .1H9
l$5,B. Dialog philos, ,.. · Treviso. 1603
1;36. Erne¥ Btp:.cu philos•.4to. Fran. 1623
Ejusdem •·. ·. ·.··. ,. .J:.ug.
\38 BAzio Florida .. · · Lug._1534
l&9 Punc. BoRNETTI Jatroch,in:\icus,. . . . Franc; I62.l
Tomaso Bon.n.o .. · .y_enez. i62'4
)'9omes Bn.owN, patures .
T, C.,so, lapis ; . .. FranJ;:fort.
)-43 T. ClESAR, amnan, B_yo. frapco.
l-4.4 B. CJESH, fossiliu.w,.rqre, fol.. . . .Lug. l6Sq
l.M M. CA.MP,EGI{, _qe transmutati. 4.to. Lug.l$a3
J. de, de ·auri s.vq. . ... . ' .
A. m.etalla artis penputari, 4to. ' ' ,Patav.
}:48 Jo. CAsI, Lapis 4tj:o,· ., • . Oxon.
(}. c,.ST'AGNE,;Lesoeuvres hel1UCtiquf, 4tracts,S..
}50. chemicus, · . . .. .. L)'pslre.·l69Q
IJ5l Ar. <;;EPHAr.r, .
.Dlercurias 4Jo. 1\((agdeb•.
C_llARLEs V.I1 fivp. . ·
J. CHAR'I:Q:R, ,anttmome, plomb. 4to. :P.Ilri!l·
_G. CI:{JAftAMONTE, · •
CHiUSTOP. tukpt 1S.th ase, Svo., . Paris.
}56 Svo. .' · ·. · Norim:berg.
J( Lueii, 4-tQ. . ·
158 Q. de uni,y"'rsali, 4;to. ·41tenb. 167.$
l59 E: Cr.AvEs _
des principes de nature, 8v.o. . · . Parii•. 16S$
16.0 ·CiAVEr,_'adept; Svo. ' Niver.
l6l Idem, philos. chim. 612, prep. am:i, Svo. . I•:r,p.k.
}62 Idem, ratione proginenc1i, Phil. Svo. •.
F. p]lilosophia German, __..;. 17.12
)64 CoLU:C1'Al'4EA chemica, 1Q tracts, 16. 1684!
)6.$ J. CoLLEssoN,' not ·esteem,ed,. Q.e. la Ph. , ,
· · · 8vo. '·· · ·· · ' ' · · · - · 16SQ
166 G. CoLLETl:'I' clavkule et la S. Lully,. SvQ. this qiligent.
· alchemist died very poor, ·
. ' · ·
L. CoLSQN; philos. maturat;a. -Jlrunb. lfi9S.
168 L. ColltDACHlus,·salt and sepret of 16. LoJ;ld. 1657
169 J. Cori-IENIUS, natural philos.'reforined, 16. 165i
170 L. ColluTmus, .approved, de alkaes.t,'4to. ·.., Venet. 1661
)71 CoGIT.\TIONts, circa alchaest, German, Svo. Fran; 1708
172 W. CooPER, books, 8vo. L9nd.i675
73 CoM.M_gNTATIO, de lap1de plulos. Svo. · 1595
174 H. CoNRADI, Kllnraih, symbolum, esteemed, Mag. l599
} i 5 Sapientire, 4to...
; ' ' ... '\' .: . ·; .
o;9,tozed by Google
., · · · , · ,.· · • ·I 1 · ·
176 Iderri. cathdlica. de 12mo. . 1599
177 Herm. CoNRINGII, contro, Hermetica, 4to. · Helm. H>&S
178 CosMo:PotiTA,'novum lumen, adept, -12 treatisrs; enigma,
dialogue; b!) Alex, Setlum,8vq. 1 • 1604
179 La meme. ses spuri()us,. 2 v. 19mo. Paris. 1691
180 .r. A. CnAMERI, fossilium,. •.
· ·· · Lug.
181 Gaspar CREMERI, de transmut. metal. Svo. .
182 J; C. CnEiLI:Ndws, de transmut. inetal. 41o. Tubing.
J83 dsw. <;ROLLn, Basilica chimica, in fol. Lond. 1670
184 The sa.Ue, philosophy reformed, 12mo.. 1657
185 CRoLLius, redivivus, stein tinctur, 4to• Fran. 1635
i86 CJCou:iNi v'ia brevis, . Romre. 1696
187 CLAVIS,' Ottonis Tachenii, Venetiis.: 1677
l88 L. CozzANni; magistero antiq. COlon. WS4!-
189 J. CHESNE, de plus cririeus etrares, · · Paris. 164.&
190 Nic. CuLPEPPER, world; Svo; .. Lond.
191 CuRIOSITIES of.cheinistr.y; . . 1
Lon<t 1691
192 Mathien DAMMY, .stir chimie. son o/ a denoese stonec¢ter't-
' · ira'lielled as a Marquiss, 8vo. Arnst. 1739
193 visio, adept; Svoi . 162$
194 EJusdem, Rosaimm cori'ectms, 8vo. GeiSmar•.1647
195 E. DEANI; tractattis varii alchimia, rare, .4to• .Fram 1680
I96 Dr. Arthur DEE; fasciculus chimicus, 12mo. tond. 165a
197 ,Dr. Joonnes DEE, monas hierogliphica, ---.. 156-ir
198 'Idem, Propredelunata natur12 virtutibtis, Loud. l.56a
DEMOCRITUS; de arte sacra, adept, 8vo. . .Fatav. l(i78
de gl'' 4to;. Rome, 1581.
E. DICKINsoN, de chtysopoe1a. PhJIStc.an to Kzng Charles II.
. and.sli'W a Svo. Oxon;
DoaNEus, davis philosophia, tliis Paracel$ian• wroie
· i 7 alchemical books; 12mo; . . Lugdd567
Fra. DoNATo, Eremita, adept; Elixir Vite1 Napoli. ·
.162{.
c,DRE»ELLIUS, quinta esseritia, not an adept-,8. Hamb. 1621
M; de la 'Violette, ouvres, 6 v. Svo. Par.l:63.i
La meme medicine mctalique, 1641;' miroir .
du nwnde, Svo..
. . . . . . L,YODS.
:buMBEilEI oortus amoris arberu Svo. '
· Fran. 162&
0ISPlJTATIO solis et fuercurii (:tun Lapide Philos. 'ancien.t
war,' 8vo. . . Tolos. 1646
C. DEOJ)ATAJ pantheum hygiuticum• 1628
210 ST. on the philosophers stone, Lood.
EFFQA1tws, adept, de philos. Svo. .Argent. 165.9
il2 Idem; Thesaun,ts pbiJosopbicus, ateemed and scarce, Svo.
. . · · ·. . Arge.at. 1659
218 EPISTOLA, cujusdani patris ad fi1ium; 8. LuR'(). Lyons. 1601
214 EfiSTOLARUM, philos. chemicarum, fol. Yra,ncofurti. 1598
Thomre ERASTI, de' auri pottlbill, Svo, - 1!i.78·1684
o1git1zed by Coogle
•
JOO Alchemical Book£.
I
!16.Laz. de Re metallica, ezceUent, fol. Ftancot:
1629-, Eng. . . · Lond.
!17 L' EscALIEK des sages, avec· figures, carious and senrce, fof• .
Groningcn.
John EsPAGN!:T, president of Bourdeaux, wrote without
'· · name, viz. Enchirrdioli physicn restituta, Paris. 1608
'2'19·---: Enchiridion philosophire hermeticre, 8vo. . 1'/zt
anonyrnottt works of tlzis esteemed adept itJ Englislt, Io.
·Lorul. 1651, }>aris. 1638
L'ExPoSITIONE dcGebetFfloso(o, disesteemed, 12. Venet.1544
D. EucHlON1'IS de ,aqnis oleis &sa.libns philos.s-. Francof.l567
'222 M. EYGEUl\1 lepilote de l'onde, scarce, Paris. 1678
Ecl.AtRCISREMENT de ]a pierre phifosopl1ate; Svo. Paris. 1628
'2'2+ EMBLAMA'l'A de secretis naturre chemicft, +to. Oppen. 1618
225 ExAMEN des principes des alchemistea1 l2'wo. Paris. 1711
M. ELMULLERI opera omnia, Verret. 17'27
m P. J. FABRI, not an arlept. aichimista Christiantts, Svo.
This skilful chemist wrote 17 books ofalchemy, Tolo. 1632
228 G. F.\BRICIU5 de rebus metallicis, evo. Tiguri. 1565
229 Secreti diversi, racco1ti del G. FALLoPrus, Svo. Venet. 1578
230 Leon. FIORAVANT, witlz Paraulsus Penotus and Isaac-.
4to. 1
Lond.
!S1 J. C. FANIANt de artis Svo. Basil. 1576
232 Idem, metamorphosi mctallica, Svo. · Basil. 1660
233 J. M. FAUSTU·Philaletha illustratus, Svo. Francofurti. 1706
Idem, Pandora chemica, lze1"17letic extracts, - 1706
235 Ed. F!:NToN, secrets and wonders of nature, Lond. 1659
'236 J. FEttNELitrs abditis rerum causis, 8. Par. 1560
237 Phil. FEKNE:L soliloquium satinm, Ncnpoli. 1d49
2S8 Josua FERRO meravigliosi secrcti, 8vo. Venet..-1606
239 B. FIGULI Parridisus aureolus hermcticus, 4to. Fran. 1600
240 Idem, auriga benedictus spagyricus, 12mo. Norim.1609
• 241 G. FIGtrLI medecina univer&alis, l2mo. Bru.-x. 166G
'24-2 FrLARE'I.'O racolto di secreti, 8vo. · · ·Fioren. 1573
243 J. V; FlNCKI enchiridion hermetico,. 16. Lip. 1626
Nicholas FLAMEL, an adept, summary, 24. Lond. 1680
Do. explanation of his hieroglyphics, 8vo. Lond. 162-'
244 La meme le desir desire, ou tresor de philosophic - -
La meme le grand ecclaircissement, Svo. Paris. 1628
· De la meme la musiqae chimique · - -
"247 Idem, annotationes in D. Zacharium, spurious. - -
24S Roberti 'Fu:n davis alchim. 2 v, f. Francof. -
249 La FoNTAINE des amoureux de science, 16. Paris. 1561
250: La FoNTAINE perilleuse, .reputed, Svo. Paris.
·'251 P. !<.,RADIN histoire fabuleuse, sca1·ce., Svo. Lyons. 156G
!52 Von FRANKENBERG magica, Svo. Amst.-
253 J. l"REIND prelectiones chemica, · . Lond• .1704
25+ J. FRIC&Ius de auro potabile sopl1istarum, +. 1708
' .
o1git1zed by Coogle
.Alchemical Bcoks.- 101
!55 D. G. FntSCRl anatomin nlchimire, Svo. ·
256 L. FnuNDEE:K'de elixir arboris vitm, Svo. 1660
J. N. Funicmus de lapide philosophico, 4to. Argent.
258 Le FILET d'arwdnc, ltermetic, Svo.. Paris.
259 P. GAnELLA de lapide philos. 4to Cassel. 161&
260 J. GARLANDn, dictionariumalchimim, 8vo. BasiL 1571
261 C. GAMoN, tresor des tresors, 2 vois. 12mU. Lyons.l6i&
262 GAULT, les errcurs dcl'att 1·efutee's 4to. .Par. }58&
263 GEBER's works, adept, Clzorasan., 8th age, 1./nvestigation. of
petjectiatz, 2. Sum o.f do. s. l11vention qf Y erity, to.
Ftlrflaces, 8w:>. . Gedani.
J. C. GERHARDt, panacea hermetica, Svo. Ulm. 164-0
265 Idem_-in apertorium Lullii, 8vo. 16411
266 D. GERMANNI, judicium Svo.
267 F. S. E. GERZAN, vrai tresor, disesteemed, Svo. Paris. l-65S
268 La meme L'histoire Africainc, chL'mie, 8vo. Par.
269 F1avio GrROLANr, Ia pietro filosophicll, 4to. Vcnet. 1590
270 P. Grvnv, acidularum, 12mo. J\..msL
271 Rinaldo GIANGI, Istruzione speziale, Roma. 1716
"272 J. R. GLAUBER's works, chemistrv, foL London.l68&
Jos. GoNELLI, thesaurus philosoPh. Neapoli. 170t
"274 Mi. GumEnTo, de interitu alchymie, 161•
Idem,· alchimia ratione et experientia, S;vo. Arg. 160$
275 Fabio GLJssENTI della de filoson. 4to. Venet. 1596"
""276 GLUTTEN, minernle demercurio.philos. Svo. Lips. 1705
e.J.77 J. Gouo11.v, ancien poeme, science mineral.e, 8. Paris. 1571
"278 GLORIA muildi soustein paradei.s, , _ Hamb. 1698,.
.279 B. GoDFREY, miscellaneous experiments, 8vo. 1 Lond.
"280 Apo1ogie pour le GRAND ouvRE1 par D. B. 12. Par. l65f
G. GRANGER, que lcs metaux ont vic, Svo. . Par. 1.
640
"282 William GRATAJlOLE, on the philos. stone, 4to. Land. 1651
.285 Ejusd. vera ·alchemia, 23 tract$, 2 vol&. 8vo. Bas. 1571
"284 Jod. GREVER.I, secretum magnum, 8vo. Lugd. l588
Jac; GREVIN, de l'antimoinc contre .Launay, 4-to. Par. 1567
J. GRIMALDI, &rwfor, dell' alchimim, 4to. Palermo. 1645
287 J. B. GnoscHEDALE, proteus mercurialis, 4-to. .Franoof. 1629
288 Ejusd. mineralis lapideqt descriptio, 8vo. Hamb. 1.706
289- hermetiscbes Kieebat, weisheit, 8vo. Fran.l629
290 J. Guw1, alcbimisticis, de thesauris, 4to. . Venet. 162.5
291 A. GuNTHERus, spagirices, 1623, Essentia, Svo. &em. 1621
292 P. GuzssoNJUS, tribus principiis, 8vo. Fran• 1666•
293 Dom GuLIELMr, de salibus, 8vo. Lugd. 1707
294 GUIDE to alchemy, .. Lond. -
!95 E. HAGEDoN, secreta sparigica, . . Jena. 1676
"296 HERMOPHILEt. canones hermetici, 8vo. . Mal'purgb. 1608
297 H.wRIANEUM, de au,·eo philosoph. Svo: _ Rotho. 1651
298 S. HAFFEUREI'FERI, officina bermetico, Ul11,1. no date
J. L. qvqm hel:IDetico,. avo. FriUlC. 1694
o1git1zed by Coogle
Alchemical
$60. N. N. 'H.u;.ELI'Ul'i, cliieragogia heliana, Svo.
Sol J. HARTMAN'sworks, London; et Franc. 168"
H..tUMERIE,secrets IE!$ plus caches, P!lr· 1722
SOS J, 0. HELBEou, inauditam phisicam, 8\•o. Ham, 168<1
S04< Idem t:entnim naturl!e coricentratum; 12mo• · Gedani. 1682
S05 Same, salt of nature, by Alipili, 16. · Lo11d. 1696'
·806 Idem deviribus hermeticis, 12mo. Arnst. 1683
807 HEI;Ilil, speculum alchemire, FranCiscan; SV'o. .·Fra. 1614
!OS J. B. HELMONT's works translatt!d, fol. Loncl. 166+
·S09 J.O. HELWIG, alchemia, Svo. Ldp. 17HJ
. SIO J. F. HELVETIUS, ofa transmutation J lze was fir# physician
· to the Prince qf Orang!!; Svo. • . Lontl. 1670
:911 HtB.METIS Trismegisti 7 adept, ·Lips; 160()
·.!12 Idem, 7 chapters; tablet nnd 2nd book, Lond. 1692
·SIS John HuooK, saphiric medicine, fof. . ' Lnid. 1Q65
S14o HtEROGLIPiiicA Egyptio Grreca de lapide, 4to. BasiL 1571
1U5 F. HoFFMAN, dissertationes tres, 4to. Ha£ 1726
S16 H. C. -KIRcHENSis, magnesia Catbolica, German
817 Ewald, HoGHELANDE, historia trnnsmutat. 8vo. Colon. 1604!
·S18 Theo. HooHEL'l\NDE, alchimire difficult. Svo. Colon. 1.5941
·319 Isoac adept, vegetable work, 4to• Lond; l659
·S20 Idem, de triplici orclini elixiris, 8vo. Bern. 1608
·S2l Idem, mineralla opera, de 1ap. phil. ;Middl. 1600
Idem, opera universalill et vegetabilia, . . Amnd617
Idem, universa.li opere sicut .fltio suo M. Johanni, I$aa&o
Hollando e I!lanclfia paterno animo, 8vo. Fran. 1669
8-2-io C. HORNEI, de metaUis medicis, 8vo. · Helm.
S25 HoRTULA:Nus, hertneticus ttJm fig, Bvo. Franc. 1627
826 Snme, reign of Saturn revived, Lcind. 169fl.
827 t'laturl chaos, Svo. . . Franc. 1708
228 HisT6ntJ!l, philos. hermetique; Le11glet, 3 v. $vo. Hay.l742
929 HERMETICaL banquet, Svo. Lond. 1652
830 I-IYDROPYROGRAPHUJ\1, true fire water, 24. Lond. 1680
,331 IcoN, philo.'!. occultre, esteemed, 8vo. Par. 1672
S32 De 1-GNE, magorum philos. C. Kunratlz, 8vo. Argent. 1608
S39 Pape JEAN XXII. L'art transmutatoire, 8vo. ·,Lyons. 1551
S34 Jo.ANNEs, fil Zaccharire de spiritus, v. · Lug. 1556
835 Secreti della IsABELLA, Venet. 16.
65
336 ls.AGOGE, triunus Dei et naturre, avo. Ham. 1671
887 Chev. htPERIAL lemiroir d'alchimie, 16. Paris. 1609 1
·338 JACQUES Dubourg, saint Saturne de la cbimie. ,...._ -
839 J. JEnsENII-, de lap. phil. discun;is, 4-to. Rost. 1645
S<t-0 Ouil. JoHNSONI, Lexicon hetmeticarurn, Lond.I652
S41 J.JoNSTONI, regni mineralis, · Lip. 1661
•s-t-·.2 Idem, Thaumatographia naturalis, Arnst. 1661
343 Abel lsNARD, Ia medicine universelle1 Par. 1655
S44 J. H. JuN(I;KEN'; chimia curiosa, S'vo. Franc. 1681
S45 Edw. KELLEus, de lapide philos; Svo. Ham. 1613
D1g1tized by Coogle
Alclzemical ·.Books. I()a
Arr#J, adept,. Svo.
·s47 de termentatione,. 'Vittenb. 1663·
848 R. A. KitUGEn, de sol. che.r,n.icorum, Bruns, 171S
:J49 T. Kmi!KRINGII, in Basilii, 8vo. Amst. 1671
·sso G. c. KniEGsM,).NNI, in Hcrmetis, · sine leco
851 J. KuNCKEL, experiments, Bvo. Lond. .I 70S
S52 J. C. KuNsT, de menstruo universali, 4to. Hal. 1737
353 A. KERNERI, de auro mel'cnriQ antimonio, Erfur. 1618 .
354 F. KrESERr, .azoth solificatum, -1666
855 Atban. KuicuERI, mundus subter. 2 vols. foL Arnst. 167S
356 G. lp::is et igne 4to. Vitteb. 168().
851 KLEINOLD, schatz der phiJosophen, 8vo. Fran. 17141
'858 L. G. KNoRB, BusiheJivivus, German, Lcp. 1716
359 V. Koi'FsKr, vonder Ehrste tinctur burtzel, 4to. Dan. 1681
.360 J, LACilUJJ.M, pretiosa margarita, Svo. · Venet.
'361 L4Pis mctaphisicus, rare, 8vo. Paris. 157()
S62 D. LAGNEI consensus philos. Svo. . Paris. 1601
863 LAMPAS :vitre et mortis, l2IPOo . , J..ugd. Bat. 1678
'864 S LAMBYE, revelation of secret spirit,Svo. Lond. 162·3
;s65 An Italian coml;llellt OJl this by Agnelli, - I
'.866 GuiUaulJle LAMY 8ur l'antimoine,.l2mo. Paris. - .
S6i ·carlo LANCILO'lTI, guida aHa ·12mo. · Mod.
868 Idem, d'eil 12mo. · ·Modenc. 1683
;:J69 Idem, triomfo del mercurio,· 16. Modenc. 1677.
·s79 Abqe LENGLET du Fresnoi f:!ital, livres herxp. 8. Paris.
S71 Lav. LEMNIUs, secret miracles of nature, fol. Loud. 1658>
. 372 Fri.U,lC. Tertii de LANis, magisterium, 3 vot fol. Brix. 1684P-
S7S J. L.'\SNIOR'O Bokemi, tractatus aureus, 8vo. - - 1612
874< Vert. LAVINI Moravi, de Ccclo terrestri, 8vo.- Marp. ·
.875 Lou. LAZAREL, Italian.le basin d'Hermes, Svo. Paris. 1577
876 Nic. LEMEJI.\' de l'antimoine, 12mo. Pari<;. 1707
877 LETTKE philos. ·de ['allemand, par Duval, 12mo. Par. 1674.c
878 Thomas L'EE, of thesovereign balsam, . Lond. 1665
S79 LETT'RE sur le secret du grand ouvre, 12mo. Hay. 1686
·sso Camilla LEoNAJ.WI, speculum lapidem. Parisiis 1610
$81 Andr. LIBAVIl Hal. Saxcm. 44lib. f, Franc. 1595
$82 LIBERir, cabalistico scripws, 8vo. Fran. 1623
383 Lud. LocATELLI, d'arcani chimici, Svo. 1648
584- LoNG LIVERS, young several ages, t: Lon. 1i22
385 J. LocQuEs, philos. naturelle, sca1·le, 8vo. Par. 166.5
:386 F. Lossu, de mort curationibus, Lip. 1685
C. LoNGINO, trinum magicum, rare, 12mo. Fran. 1616
'388 LucERNA, salis philos; curious, Svo. It is by John .
Harpreckt, of Tubingen, a prtjessed adqJt. Arnst. 1658
$89 C. Lucii, lapide christo sophieo, 4to. Ingolst. 1582
S90 Rnymundi LnLLt, an adept opem omnia, 8vo. Argent. 1597
'$91 Same, testament and codicil, 8. Clavicula, 24. Lond. 1680
.:s92 Idem, practica artis, f. Lug. 1523, setretis, 8. Arg. 1541
•.
o1git1zed by Coogle
Alc_hemical Books.
Idem, mercuriorum. repcrtorium. apertorium, 8. eoton. }5.66
- alchimia. magia natura1is, 8vo. Norimb.
.395- testamentum novissimum, 8vo. Basil. 1572
396 -- de aquis mineral. Epist. Rupert, S:vo. Colon. 15.6'[
S-9-7 -- tertia di!>tinctio. transmutatio'ne, 4to. Nor.
9-98- aquis super accurtationes, Svo. . . Arg. 1541
S99 - secreta magnalia alchimia, Luad. ;Bat.
4'00 -- Glossasopra Raim. LuLLo, '\"enezia. 168!<
+01 - Blaquerna jn LuLLIUM, deamicoet amale,82. Paris.-
+02 ---:- Summaria lapidis _abbreviationes, fol. Basil. 156J
408 ..;;__ Le vade mecum alwege de l'art, 8vo. Paris. 1613
404- Cantilena ad Regem Anglor1nn, Svo. · Col. 1553
405 - -
· de conservatione vitre, Svo. · · · · Arge,>t. 1616
-406 - de secrctis medicina magna, Basil. 16{)<)
.f07 - Lullius redivivus, 8vo. Norim. 1703
408 - opera alchemia R. LULLY, 2 vol. Lond.
409 Histoire R. LuLLE, par Vernqn, par.Colletet, 12. Par. 166ft
flO La LuMIERE sortant de tenebres, 12. · · · Par. 16.87_
fU De LAPI!>E philoeophico, th•o,. ' · - .
De L.APIDIS physici conditionibU'8, Colon.
fl3 DiscqJtation de LAPIDE philos. 8vo. · · Cpl.
414 LuooVIcus.Comitibus, practicre manua1is, Francof.
.&15 MANU'ALE hermeticum, W. s. D. c. P. Wofenb.
4-16 philos. f,ll'Cani revelator, i2mo. Genev.
417 Ofthe pksse,d MANNA of.thephilos. Lond.
fl8 MARIA Egypti. dimog. adqt, A. M •. 86SO, Leip. 11or.,
4l9 G. C. MAFFEI scala naturale, 8vo. Venet. 1564-
-+20 MAJERI chemicnm per oculis, 50fig. 4-to. Fran. 1687
•21 J. J, MANGETI biblioth". chemi. ·curiosa, 2 vcle. folio. It
-contains US alchemic (5-6 are.fr011J Tkeat. (:hem.)·
'Oiz. Arisleus, Artepkius, Avicemza, Aristotle, Arnolcl,
.Altus,, Arl8Urelli, Bacon, B'f!Cner,
Bm..,·icldus, Brackesky, Bmzo, Bc1'11ard, Basil, Bm'11atuf,
Balduinus, Cato, Cla1tder, Clwrtalassros,
Dornea. Dastin, Espagt-.et, Fabe1·,
F1·iben, Geber, Gerard, Guido, Hermes, Hogkelaml,
·IIelvetius, Icon, Jolmstm, Kalid, Kitv:lter, Kfiegmatr.;
Lihnvius, Lewis, Lully, Massa solis, Merlin, Mm·h'?lf;
Marien, Malvisius, F. Mimndoln, T. Nm·ton,
Paracelsw, Eir. Pltilaletkes, Pantaleon, Rip!.eg,
Rttpecida, Sacks, Sendivogius, Stolcius, Todn!frlrl, -za.:.
ditk, Zaclzaria, Col.
B. MARK, hermctischen philos. herren, Sro. Strasb. 1701
+2S 1\tiARGARITA, philosophica,_4to. Basil. 1588
424 MARti philosopbische, vel azoth, 28 p. 8. Fran. 1656
425 La MARTINIERE, la tombeau de la folie, 12.
426 B. MAZOTTA, triplici phiios. 4to. Banon. 1688
4-27 P. MASSIN, Liegeois, 'de la pjerre philosophale, _
4'28- C. MEDICEs, dess stein& der weiseu, Svo. - 1708
o;9,11zed by Google
Alchemicdl Boo!i·s. 105
,&2!) metal10rum; trarismutatio. 4.-to. Lip. r!2g
430 ME'nrcrNISt:ift, itilivennl 8vo. Hamb. 17o6
431 MEnctiitxus, triumphans, rare, 4to. . Magd. 160(}
4s2 J. G. MEERHEIM, msonderheit hermetischer, 8. Leip. 1708
483 MEncunrtis, rcdivivus, scarce, 4t.o, Praric. 16SQ
+34 G. MENNENS, sacrre .f.to. .Anhv. 1604
485 caducean rod. by Cleidoplzonis, 16,
436 Maria M:wnDRACK, light of chem. German, I2. Fran. 1712.
487 Jean de MEuN, ses ouvres, 8 .tomes, 12mo. Paris. 1735
488 La meme le mjroil' d'alchimie, 18. .. Par. lM3
439 N. philosophorum, fol. .., 1449
J, D. Mrtu1 dzsesteemed, chem. cum .fig. .to. Fran. 1620
-'41 Ejusd. ,lEnej,s jllustratus, curious, 4to. .Fran.
442 R;. Mu:mERn, Aug. 1618
44S MnlERA del mondo,. secreti di natu.M, 12. : . Ven.
4-t:4 H. med. chem. 8vo. . Ha,mb.I6S$
&45 A. Mons, arcanorum, 16. COI:on¥1!. 1572 1
' Idem. lapjde aureo philos•.4to. Hamb. 163'·
446 H. MoLLn, physica hermetica, Svo. •
447 J. B. MoNTANr, 17eronensis, arte alcb{'fll, lib. 16. - -
448 J. MoNTE, med. univers. per uniYer. Menstr. 8. Fr. 1673,
449 Idem. hermetischen guldenen floss, 8vp. VIm. 1680
450 V. MoNTE, hermet. kleeblat mitjigur, 8. . 166'{
451 P. MoRESTEL, de fa pierre naturelle, I 2, .• Jl,Quen,. 1607
452 MoRt:ENus, adept, de tranfigurntiorie metal. Han. l56S,:
Thi. MEREsnu, transubstant. g. 1-fan.
4541 D. MoRHOFU, metal. Svo. 167.$
455 c. L. 1\JORLEII, collect. esiee11Jitf, 8. - Ani. 17.02
456 P. MoaJtm, arcana Luud. l6S()
457 J. MoRT1I, op.era varijt . 'J,:.p.g B'at. 1696
458 M. MoTREU, Amadis de Gaul, livre 14<nie, ·
459 Der Vori urtheilende alchymist, . Chern. 1706
.f60 La vie de r. MouiLHE1, de Carc,assonne, avecfig.S. Par. 161$
461 A. MuLLER, paradiess spjegel, Svo. . Leips.I?04
4:62 P. Frilmrglz, Jlliracula chem. Regio. ltH4'
4'6'8' J..E. MuLLER, des steins der weisen, Svo. Franc. 1707
464 Mu1-us LIBER, Altus, t!zeprocess in 15 'IJieiwst (oJ. }fup. 1671
46,? F. secretjs'aptiJll9nii, Svot Basil.
466 J.D. MYLu, philosophja reformata. 1()'22.
:Ejusd. Basilica philosofhia. . - 16rs·
468 L. I11 bcJlc magie1 . 1669
4!;9 MERCURI! sapientia Dei. :Basil.
t-70 MusEuM, 21 tracts, 4to. Alze, Ct·enJer.
· · Fiamel, · !{!Jdrolitu$, Helvetiu,. Lampi-pring, de Metm•
. .ftlajl!rU$, T, Norton, Pkilalcthcs,
Sendjvognu. Franc. 1677
ti'11' prattici. · . . 1718.
G.B. NABRE, L. Salerno, metamorfosl metal.4:.l}resc. 1564
•78 Cbev.lNpo.N.Nu, au decouvert, 8vo. Aix.
. . ! l1
o1git1zed by Coogle
106 .A.lchemir.ld Books.
474- History of NATURE, confirmed by exper. 8vo. Lond. 1678
475 J. B, NASAtu, Bresciano, della tt·ansmutat, 4to. llresc. 15D9
476 idem, concordanza de i filosofi. 4to. llresc. 1599
477 J. Equitis Von NAXAGORAS, veritas hermetica. 8. Vrat. 1712
478 Idem, alchimia denudata, German, Bvo. Vratislau. 1716
479 Theop. NEANDER', heptas alchimica, 8vo: i621 ·
480 Henr. NEKUSI, Dantiscani, cU1·io11s, 16. H:wnie 1618
481 H. NoLLIUS, corruption and generation, 8vo. LQnd. 1657
'48'J Idem, theoria philos.·hermcticre. 8vo. Hanov. 1617
'83 Samuelili NoRTONI, 7 tractatus chimici cum jig. i catholic
physic, 2 elixir vitl'iol, 3 me1·cnry revived, 4· 'mediCine of
life, 5 saturn saturated, 6 gems· of pebbles, 7 aldwmy,
· 4to. Fran. 1636
484 Thomas NoRToN, ordinall of alchemy, 4to. · Lond. 1652
485 Dom. NuysEMENT, true salt of philos. Svo. . Lond. 1657.
485 A. 0HACAN, Spmliard, ip Arnoldi, fi>l.
-'86 Le grand OuvllE, 79 ami du Flame!, Bvo.
Franc.
4-B'T QpuscuLA diversorum 11uthorum, 8vo. Franc. 1614:
-488 Qpus tripartitum de philos. arcanis, Lond. 1678
t88 OaoNTJI Finei de philos. lapide, 4to. Paris. 1542
4-89 0RTHOLANUS vera alchimire, Parisiis. 1358
PARKHURST's sympathetic mummy, Lond. 1653
4-91 Le Petit PAYSAN, aleh. Germa11, mre, Svq. Strasb. 1619..
492 P.A.NTALEONI& bifolium metallicum, :Norim. 1676
t9S J. PADUA, sapierlti!). eonsuminata. - - -
f94 J. PAGEZ, les mirtJ,cles de Ia creation, 8vo. Par. 1632 ·
*95 B. PA.i.rssv, moyende devcniniche, 12mo. Par:.1636.
-496 La me111e, du'jardinage; de Ia chhuie, Svo. P ar. 158Q
497 PALLADIS chimicre, J. B. Maringue, mre, Svo. Gt•ncv. 167-t.
498 P.AiL'ADIUM Svo. · · · Paris. 16.24
499 Petri P.ALMAim, M.D. Paris, lapis philos: 8vo. Paris. 1609
500 Lucidas P.A.MPHILUS, theatri nkhymistico, 8vq, · · --- 1681 ·
501 Mart. PANS.IE, libellus aureus, 8\'0, . Lips. 1615 .
502 J. A. PANTHERJJS, transinutat. metal. 8vo. Paris. 1550 ·
503 Theophrasti opera omnia, 5 v. fol. Gen.l662
504 Same, philosophy to the Athenians, 12mo; · · Lond. 1657
505 Same, prescriptions of 114 cures, 4to. . . - 1659
506 Idem; compendium.vitre et catalogus, ]3asil,· l568
507 Same, 'archidoxis of ai·canums·and elixirs, 8v.q. Lon. 1663
508 ldem, aprora, 8vo. Basil. 1577, dctartaro,.Svo. :Biu;il. 1570
509 Idem, medico chimU:q chirurgica, 12tonies,.4to. Frimc. 1603 ·
:SIO archidoxoruril, lib. 10. 8vo. · ' · ·Colon. 1570
511 Idem, pyropliilin 8vo. 'Basil. 1568 ··
512 philosophire adeptre, Svo.
513 Idem; deinerctiriis 8TO. Colo. 1582
· ' 514 Idem, phijosop: mRo<Tllre, 7lib. de Basil. 156$ .
515 Same, key of philosopl1y, Svo. . ·· ' Lond.
•·' ' . • • , I
o;9,11zed by Google
Alchemical Books. 107
- . -
51G Same, chcm. transmut, 1657, sympathy, 8vo. Lon. 1656
517 PHILADELPHIA or brotherly love, Lond.-
518 The Pmvv SEAL ofsecrets --- Lond.-
519 .JoM1 PARTRIDGE, treasury of secrets, Svo. Lond. 1591
520 F. PARTRicn, magia philos. Zoroustris, Svo. Hamb.
521 PELAGII, Greci, in Democritum arte sacra, 8vo. Col. 1574.
523 Mar. PoLI, Il trionfo de gli acido, Roma. 1706
·6 24 PnLETIER, l' alcaest de Helmont, esteemed, 12mo.
· Rouen. 1704
525 B. PENoTus, alchemists enchiridion, l2mo. Lon. 1692
526 Idem, de materia lapidis philosophorum, 8vo. Ber:Q.. 1608
527 David PERSONS, salamandra, 4to. I.ond. 1636
528 John PETTY, mine laws of England, f. Lond. 1610
.529 H. PETREr, nosologia hermetica, 4to. Marg. 1614
530 G. PHlEDRONrs, iatro chemica, Svo. Franc. 1611
.531 J.P. PHARMUNDJ, compend. Hermet. 12mo. , Fran. 1685.
532 PHILosoPHIC epitaph by W. C. Svo. Lond. 1673
533 Eirenreus PHILALET-HA, anon. adept; secrets revealed, or m&
open entrance to tlze shUtpalace, 12mo. _ Lond. 1669
.DS-i .Same, transmutation of metals, 2 celestial ruby, 3 fountain o£
chemical philosophy, Lond. -
.535 Same, Ripley revived, a Svo. Lond. 1678
536 Eir. PHILOPONUS Philalethes, marrow of Alch. 12mo.
· Lond. 1709
537 B. P. PHILALETHES, alchem: Enchiridion, Lpnd. 1692
538 Eugenius PHILALETHEs, English, 8vo. London; Theo-
-inagia, 2 magia 3 Anima magica abscondita,
4 Lumen de Lumine, 1651; 5 confession ofthe Rosicross.
· 1659 ; 6, Waters of the East, 1671 ; 7, aula Lucis, 1652.
539 PHILALETHJE, Wigands vom rothen schilde, l2. Ham.1675
540 T. PHILALETA, theosophischer wunder saal, Svo. - 1709
541 PHILOSOPHUS Gallus, de arbore solari, Svo. Arg. 1659
.542 J. F. Prcus Mirandola, de auro, 4to. Venet. 1586
·543 V. PINJEus, de concordia Hipoc. et Paracel. Svo.Arg. 1569
544 H. PLATT, jewel house of art, 4to. Lond. 1594.<
545 Projet du PLAN, de Ia creation, 8vo. Paris. 16:58
546 D. PLANIS Campi, l' ecole transmutatoire, 8vo. Paris. 1633
547 La Meme de l11- medicine universelle, 8vo. . Par. 1633
548 A. PoLITII, 5 essentia solutiva, 4vQ. Panorm. 1613
549 John PoNTANUS, adept, sophie fire, 24. Lond. 1624
550 Idem, de rebus celestibus Fiorenza,
J. PoPPII, hodogeticus German, -- 1627
Q52 Ham·. PoPPIUs, basilica antimonii, 4to. Fran. 1618
553 J. B. PoRTA, de reris transmutationibus, 4to. Romre. 1610
554 Idem. spiritali, Napo. 1606, magia naturale, Nap. 1611 .
555 .M. PoTIER, apol. hermetico philos. 4to. Franc.
556 Idem, vertunateria et processu lapidis, Svo. Franc. 1617
_557 Idem, FoDS' chimicus auri conficiendi, 4to. Col. 1637
658 Idem, phil011. pur11. Svo. Francot:
Digitized byGoogle
• ·'
' Boob.·
59,9 P. :Pol'IER, ?,P,e.ra fjisesteemed, 4to. !692 .
5!)0 nosologia hermetica1 4to. - 1.61.5
for the philos. stone, German, 8vo. Jena. 1701'
562 1\{. PRQGGMAYR, vero elixire vitre. Salit. 1687
5"3 of thegreen lion by a Rosicrucian, -
:r. deux Par.
59,5 PrET\J;A de philosopha catala, . · AsCQli. 1737.
566 M; (:j. . Venez. 1550
5_
f)7 .:fatV¥ seal of secrets or first matter, Lond. 1680 ·
5.?8 <l.t(). - 1-605
5()9 RANDORF, on the philos. stone, 4..to. Lond. -1652
li;70 Si!v. ltATTRT, theatrum sympatheticum, NoriAt.
5,71 "1{-AMSAJO, J. Rott. 1678
5;72 RANT.&!, En;} ish c;:lavis awi
· facturum brevi rare, 8vo, -.- .
5,73 S. RA,PHAELJs, d,e &ale etm.ercurio, 12.
574 RABBARX>s, book of alchemy, 4to. .• 1591
S.75 R:Eco,NDIWI,l.IUM op1,1Ientire, esteemed, Am,st. 1666
576 REGIO salutifera; prima mA.terill;l, 8vo, · :fran. 170S
li.77 thesaums 8_vo, Leip. 160.9.,.
.')78 E. RENAUDO'l', del' antimoine 4t.q. Paris. 1653·
579.RF;&Poun sur ]'esprit ·12. Paris. l6til!.
S80 S. 4to.
qsl J. hermonie decades dure, 1Masis, Merlin, Guido•
· · Gratiat!, A.n,tQTI.io, 41J.Vin41.,.,
. Das#u, Salomon, Small Bos{l1"!h 8vo. Fran:
58.2 aurcus . . .. 1613
5!3.3 I.dcl)l, de solutionc Byo. . Fran. 1685
584 J.,. RnoDAR<;>IRi, de sqlutione philosophica, 8. Ludg. 1566
¥5 RI(;HA.RDI, English adept, died 1336, correctorium,
. . Arg.
586 J. M. UicHEDOURG, 1_
8 4rte;h.it;,S,
. '.At(Ctent Bernard, Basil, Flame!, Geber, J:let"R/..!,s,.
' /J...1
'i'lllailh Mar:J, Turba, Zadlar!J., 3 vo}j. 1,2ma:-
. Paris. 1741
587 Georgii RJPLEI1 adept, opera 8\'o. . Cli.SiClis. 164.9'
588 Same, of mercury,, Lc$d. 16S.o· .
589 Same, bosom book. accurtations, 8vo. LOnd.
.· 590 H . RocuAs, la pbysique demonstrative, 8vo. Patis.
591 F. RoTHSCOLTzu,Silesii, hibliotbcca chenlica,H0.-.-1719
' . ·Idem, chemia, curiosa 12. 17fl.C)-
592 RoBE.nTus Fallensis, artis Bvo. ·
· .
593 Gern.
t{lnic_e, 4to. __........- 16l8
C. RonocANAcrs, of antimony, 4to.. Lond. Hi(i•
.5.95 RosJcnucuN 71 worlc$.in .
.596 G, RoLFINCIUS, mercurius m,il).erjlJiUIO, 4to.
597 RosARIUl\I, novum, de lapi(le Ger.ln. 160i
598 P. le
'·
Digitized by Coogle
Alc1zemical ·&okt,
T. 11o1!6ELLo, secreti universali, 8\'0. Vemt.'187-'
600 H. RossiNUS de opere Dei creationis, 'to. FraD. 1597
SOl P. &uxLLAc, j>ract.ia operis mllgfli, i'Yo. Lu.gd. 1581
la cbryso spagirie, Svct. l.yOBL USi
).f. RuQENIUS, alchimistichen artzen, 8\'Q. JJp. 1601
60+ M RuLLANDI, Lexicon alcbimiat, 4th. i'ran. 1612
405 progymnasmata alchi.inie, Sva. Fnm. 160'1
606 J9han. Ru:pECCISSA, adept, livre de luiniet<e, l-6.Paris. -
t;Q'fldem, de quinta essentia rerum oma.i.um, 8vf>. Baa. 1581
fiPI$. I<Jew, philosophorum, Svo. Parisiis. 15-+S
Idem, secretis alcheiJ.Ua,. 4tp. Col.
(ilO della :RlVIE.II.£ il mondo :Milano. 1601
J. RuJ:LLII de natura 2v; Sv.o. Veuet. 15-S&
Willi.ar.u ·sALllfoN, M. D. H81'11Jes,. Kalid, Pontanus, .A.rte-
pkiNs, Flami4Bai:otl, lUpley, 8voA LODd.
t;IS Le Sjeur SALMON, M. D. bibliot'aeque, 12 tracts.
IJ:u.mes, Turha,. &mel, Bmtard, Zacluzey* LavinW..•
Kalid, btepltius, 6ehor.,
.
•It <;hr-. :ij'(tr. SAJlOR, pract.ica natur.re vera prepareti.G LapidW
miJWralis de antimonio, in German., 8voo 17ill
eJ.4 naturre anon,. ·Get711an afkpJ, 8vo... . Lon. 1698
4f.ti .J. J>m'is, Mngni lapidis pbilos. 4to. Brem. J66tl
4U S,4.I1iT e.tfets de la pi.el-re divine, 12. Par. 1679
· 8 Angeli SALE opera omnia, 4to. · RodleiJlagi. 1660
4i9 Jol•n, SAWT.ijE ofthe philos. stone; 4tD. Lon. 1669
De $.A;LE, secreto philosophorum, 8.Yo. Cau. 165l\
fjl S_. ·de potentissima mett oniver. 8vo. . Arg. 1659
H. denariohermet. dlem. s: Fnm. 1617:
.. ScJiLERON, de philos• Svo. Marpur.
Zqr findung dee steins der Weissen, 8vo.
Leip. 1706
L. Scuor.zu, Bosenqat. summonnn philos. fol. Hano. 1610.
<;. phlsica .
cum fig. +to. Het:b. 1667
. ldenl, mirl\bilia. art.is, 2 v. +to. Norim. 1666
f#1 ScOT'S tillll$e of light, syo. Lond. 1628
•tf!C.• nm:aculo chemteo; ..Bema"'cl, · - 1616
disclosed of the plill.os. - 1680
e:.c Lflgneo, 4to. Ulm. 16+1
of a transm-..ting powder fouud, 4te. Load. 16SS
of chemisay,.Svo. Loud.-
SucuTEN, sccccts of antimony, 8vo. JAB. 16'10
davis alchetniae, German, Svo. . :Montis. 1616
&J• t8teemed, Chrysopoeia,S.l:famb. 1618
ScOTt, de &eel'etia natura, 12. Fran.16I•
· SxvEJtiNI, te$ios P-ibl. a.dept.e, Sve. BU. 1671
SEVi:&ll{Q.trMillfod'.cB'.aklUJPia, 1h Veaet. lGtl
o1git1zed by Coogle
llO .AlchenJical Books.
638 Idem, filosopia nlchimia, · · Venet; 1GM
639 Idem, comment on LuJJy, Italian, - - 1684.
640 Du SEL de sapience, disesteemed, 8vo. Par.l6l9
641 SMoLLr, antiq. mysteriorum, 4to. Lubec. 1609
642 R. SNoYus, arte alchimire, this unsu.ccesiful alchemist dJ'ec! at
TQTgau, in 1587, aged 60, f. Francof. 1620
643 SEMITA rectitudinis de alchemia, 8vo. Gratian. 1641
644 J. H. SENFRID, medulla naturre, 8vo. Saltzbach; 1679
645 ;A. SEYFARTI, klar luortcrunoo, 8vo. Leypsich.1723
646 G. Anrach, STRASBURGH, L. P. de Bas. 1686
647 W. SEBILISTA, manuale hermeticum, 4to. 'Volf. ·J655
648 SmaAcH, le grand tountaine de science,·4to. Par.l514o
649 Suu:PSoN of fermentation, · Lond. 1675
fi50 SvNEsxus, adept, true book, 8vo. London.·l678
651 Idem, in Democriticum de arte sacra, 8vo. Patav. 157Z
652 S. SPACHERI, alchimia, cum. fig. 4to. - 1616
653 D. SToLen, viridarium chimicum, cum. fig. Franc. l624o
654 Ejusdem hortulus henneticus,"cum•.ftg. 8vo. Franc. 1627
655 J. SPERBERI, de materia lapidis, 8vo. Ha:mb. 1674o
656 Idem, in veram triunius Dei et nature, 8vo Hamb. 1672
SoL sine vesta, anon, adept,·
658 E." ST.AHLJ., fundaments chimire, 4to. . Norim. 172S
659 G. 8T.ARKY, pyrotechny asserted, 12mo. Lond. 1658
660 Same, marrow of chemical physic, 12mo. -1661
661 Slime, natures explication, · · -- 1658
662 I. C.• STEEBE, elixir solis, 12mo. · Francof. 1672
663 Idem, Coelum sephiroticnm, f. .. Moguntire. 1679
664 J. A. STJsSERr, acta laboratorii Jesire, 4to. · Helm. 1701
665 J. STRUTHIUB, medicina priscorum, Lugd. 160()
666 "E. G. STRUVIUS, chimicum sine igne, Svo. Jenm. 1715
667 Srttus, ancient; de sapientia divinn, Lutet. 1635
668 J. STURMII, physica electiva, 4to. Nor. 1697
669 Idem, experimentale curiosutn; 4to. Norim. 1701
670 SunbM philosophicum, Svo.. Hamb. 1660
671 Em. SwEDENBURGII regnum mirterale,3 v.f. Lip. 173-t.
672 La. SFERZA, de gli alchemisto, · Lion. 1665
673 Clavis Majoris SAPIENTIA, Arteplzius, 8vo. · Paris. 1609
674 Mich. SENDIVOGIUS, de vero sale, J:t'ranc. 1651
675 W. T---, marrow of physic, Lond. 1659
· 676 TABULE.septem synopsim lapidis, · Erph. 1598
lji7 -Otto T A
CHENIUS, liquore alkaest, 4to.. Hamb. 1655
678.Same, Hippocrates viperine salt, 4to. Lond. 1677
f;79 .J. TACKII, phasis .sophicus solis, 4to. Franc. 1678
6tW collection '!faklzemy in German, Leipsic. 1610
.681 H. F. TEICHMEYERI, institutiones, J·enll:!. 1729
682 A. TENZELIVS medecina diaStatica, Jena. 1629
68S Zach. TH.t;.OB..U.Dr, arcana naturre, 4to. Notin. 1628
,
o;9,11zed by Google
Alchtmical Books. Ill
6U Tll£;11.'l'ltUi\f chemicJ.Jm, 209 treatises, Ar1wli, Albert,·A14:,au-
rellr, Aristotle, Aquinas• .Alanus, .Atvetanus, Alphonso, .
!lviccnna, Arteplzius, .Aplwrismi, Bacon, Balbius, Bemard,
·!Jcrnatld, Bona, Brentzius, Brosse, Blawenstein,
vantis; C'ollesrm, Ckt·istoplzer, Dee, Dornea, Democritus,
Eck, Ficinus, Fanian, F)amel, Ferm·ius, Gaston,
Greverius, Grosseus, 1-Iaymonis, Hermes, Hugheland,
.IJornius, Isaac, Kalid, Lagneus, Lasnioro, IA'Dinius,
&inius, Eampsprink, Lully, Mt!/fetus, Maty, P. Mirandola,
)Uicreris, Meueus, Monachus, Nigrius, O,·thelius, Odomar;
Ortholan, Pontanus, Penotus, Pantheus, Plato, Phedro,
... .Quercetqn, Rlz6dargii, Rupecis1a, Ripley, Richard, Ro-
Rhasis, &ndivogius, Silento, M. Scott, Trithemius,
.. ·.. . Turbo, Trogniani, Pogelius, Pentura, Pa/Jensis, Pi
rus, Zacharia, Zcrzetus, Z(lditk, 6.v. 8vo. Argent.166!
Tao:uiE thesaurus alchem. 8vo. Ludg. 1602
{)86 ldem, esse mincralium, spurious, . .Venet. 1488
!)[{7 ldem, secreta alchimire, 4to. Colon. 1579
{)88 G. cheiragogia heliana, Eng. 8vo. Lond. 1659
1)89 John THoRNBURGH, IU'tem auriferam, 4to. Oxon. 1621
,.690 Leo. Tnu:aNEYSSERs, hoecluite dcr alchcin. 4to.
· Munst. 1569
4e la pauvrete, by Atramont, 11.2mo. Par. 1673
.692 Tol\IBEAU de Semiramis, Svo, Par. 1689
/)93 gulde.n rose, blut natur, &c. 8vo. 1706
.694 antiqnorum arcano, 8v:o. 1612
7 vomstein der Weissen, 8vo. Ham. --:
lJ96 TRANCES facilis ad hermetis artell\, 12vo. Corolopoli·. 1686
'f;97 metalique, 8vo. . Paris. 1561
!)98 TRANSFIGURATIONE metallorum, Svo. Hanov. 1593
T.niNUM, Kqffski1 lived in 1487, .Alphidius and Lully, 8vo•
.. . Arg. 1699
70Q TruoMPHE hermetique, ancient war, 12mo. Amst. 1689
7oi TREASURE of Lond. 1680
702 TRIMOSIN, adept, latoisond'or, Svo. Par.
7os J. T.arTHEMIUs, de lnpide philos. 8vo. - 1611
704 TRIFOLIUM hermeticun;J, Ger:man, - - 1629
705 de pl1ilos: 12mo. Paris. 1609
1
106 TuBICUM conviviale hermeticum, 4to. Gedani. 1682
707 TRINUM magicum opus secretol'um, l2mo. Tran. 1630
708 TnEs tractatu11 de metal. transmutat. Arnst. 1668
709 TRAITEs, Bacon, Kalid, Meun, John 22. Svo. Lions. 1557
710 J. TYMME, natures closet opened, 4to. Lond. 1612
711 Basil VALENTINE, adept, last will. practice, 12 kegs, manual,
· and $Uper. tltings, microcosm, etc. 8vo. Lond. 1671
712 Same, triumphnl chariot ofantimony, Svo. ---- 1656
J18 R. VALLENszs, de vcritate et antiq. chem. 16. . Par. 1561
714 V. VALLERIIS, Lulliam explicans, 4to. August. 1589
/15 VANNUCIO pyrotecnia delle mincre, 4to. Venet. 1540
o1git1zed by Coogle
. Ill , .Alchemical Books.
'716 B. P. VAMAs, de re metallica, 8vo. Madrid. 1569
· '117 T. VANNER, way to long life, 4to. Lond. 16'28
718 B. VxGENERus, of true fire and salt. Lond. 1649
719 VIGnr, Oj Verona, medulla ehymia, Lond. 1688
"/20 VANDERLINDEN, de acriptis niedicis, 4.-to. Norim. 1686
721 Arnoldus de VILLANOVA, opera omnia, conversion qj'metals,
Rosary, speculum, 4'c. t: Lugd. 1520
·722 VrTTESTEIN, de quinta essentia, 8vo. Basil. 1582
'128 Petri VrLLANOVANI, compiler, speculum. ·
'124 P. ULSTA.DII, coelum philosophorum? 11 edit. 12mo.
1
. Ludg. 1558
'126M. UNTZERus, auatomia mercurii,\ 4-to. Hale 1620
726 Ewal. VoGELn, de lapidis physid, Colon. 1595
"127 Baro URBIGEao, adept, apboritmls, tJ2mo. Land. 1690
VEatnAnrus, hermet. philos. Franc.
'129 D1 VoNDERBEET, experimenta, Ferrarire. '1688
TSO De VITA, longa, Theo. Paracelsi,- Basilre.-
'131 J. F. VrGANI, medulla chymie, Log. Bat. 1698
'182 W :AU.Eaus, cbemia phyeica, 8vo. · Lond. --
WEasTER's history of metals, 4to. Lond. 1671
784 The WATER stone of the wise, &fo, Lond. 1659
'86 Dr. WxcK.ER, Basle, 1562, secrets, Svo., Lyons. 1648
786 J. J. WEJDENF.UD, seerets of the adepts, Lond. 1685
!1S7 J. WEIDNERUS, de arte chimica, aasil. 1610
'iss G. Wrx.soN, soo tmknown experiments, Loud. 169!t
·'189 S. WrRDIG medicina spirituum, Svo. J+'ranc. 1706
740 C. WITTESTEIN, quinta essentia, 8vo. Basil. 1_588
'741 J. WrTTzcuwa, Siksis, de lapide pbilos. ST". Franco£ 1625
'142 J. P. W ICKFFBAIN, 88lamandra, Norimb.
'14-8 W. WILLIAMS, oecult physic, Svo. 1660
'1++ T. WzLus, opera omnia mediein, 2 v. Lugd. 1681
7+5 Same, theophisical alcheiJ)y, Svo. Lond. 1616
'746 Sebas. WJRDIG, medicina spiTituum, Norimberg. 1675
747 ZACH&RIA clavis spagirica, 4to. Venet. 16il
74-8 D. ZAcHARn, adept, chimico miraclllo, Basil. 168S
749 La meme la vrai philos. des metaax. Svo. A:nvers. 1567
'150 ZADI'l'H, antiquissimi philos. &vet. Argent. 1566
751 J. ZEu.l'oa, alcbemistici, 9vo. Basil, l60CS
.
o1git1zed by Coogle
INTRODUCTION
TO'THE
ALCHEMIC TREATISES.
b the alchemist believes the science true, against the opinion
of the most accurate, learned, and laborious chemists, of the
present day. If he thinks it an ancient art, ;notwithstanding the
silence of the poets, and historiaas of11ntiquity. If he intends
to do more good than the adepts have done ; and does not per-
ceive by their " Li'fea," that any industrioos profession would
enable him to serve his neighbour and himself better than by
alchemy. lfhe imagines that·great general good, may be done
.the pronmlgation of the elixir of health among, all mankind ;
It may be 1l8ef8l to consider, what are the obstacles, and how far
it is posaible to remove them ; before he devotes his life to a
search, which the most credulous allow., is not successful to·one
in a thousand.
Of Property. ·
· Property is LAND, and the prothJctions of land, because !\IAN
is maintained h)' the earth. The support of the •
human raee, is food, raiment, lodging ; and these are only to be
permanently derived from· land. The sea, and its produce, is
ooly with to the adjoining, or that to
which the most powerful ships, and navigators belong. · In the
infancy of society, LAMD became property by the act of occupy-
ing that, which was not possessed by another : the accumulation
of the permanent produce of land, in houses, fences,
llhd the amelioration of the soil by art, in the progress of soCial
order, made it necessary for men to invent various tenures ·: some
are for ever with or without rent as fee simple or real estate ;
lives renewable for ever, .lives not and leases' for
years. A lease of land to expire at a ·determinate time, is but
aiowa ofthe use of it ; .it is only a sale ofthe produce of the land.
The uncertain termillatioJl of lives, which ha$ a favourable dis-
o .
o1git1zed by Coogle
11-'l ltzlroduclion..
tinction, called is ortfic same nature ; n is on!'Y. tr lOrriJ
ofland and a sale ofthe use of it far a period measured bya
Thus all the distinctions qftenure may be resolved inte these two
apecies qf prope1·ty,. viz. l.ANDp and t1w p1·oduc:c of land. Tl'le
property of cattle, is like that of birds and ; it is deri:Vnblc--
from the possession of land, which i& the support of all..
. .
Mankind on into the sociat state, and Hvlng togetfier
in towns, must have found it convenient to have artizans, set
apart, .for supplP.ng each particular want : before this, the
head of each fauuly had supplied his household from the lantl
about him; he was butcher, shepherd, and huntsman; the cotton
n-ee,: lla;x:.· slieep, goat, and silk worm, supplied clothing,
whicft was manufactured in his fe.mily, until it was found,. that to.
arrive at perfection, each braneh business should he- professed
by those who will do nothing· else for their suppol$,· and hen<;e
m:ose barter and the necessity of removing the difficulties of barter:
by WOOr1 Tillages to cities, ana art. were thus,
divided, tlib invention of money .required a. substance- ef dura-.
llility at'ld scarcity, whiCh might' become a stendal'd value fot:
the· purcliase of property. In aU. -
civilized Rations,. gold and.
llave; .by universal ooaeent,. obtained this· honorable pr.e-·
eminence, ·llnd· in various .coins, devised .by GoveJmments, .are:
.1\EPRESE'N'.i:'AT:rYES'O" PROPER'.r¥..
Before gold and silver could become a saie o£
property, statesmen saw, that they must provide against the
.fluctuations of its relative 'IJOlue to property. The first measure·
to this end, was to make the mines of gold and silver a royal
property ; .and. by the exclusive prerogative of a royal mint, '
the legafmoney representation of property was placed in the ccm-
.troul of the Crown; which in this ·country _is, guided by the de--
of tlre Legislature. In U!is mCllfle there.is a judicial.
power, for .encreasing or dimin!shing $he quantity of the
representation ofproperty,. as ClPti:umstances for .the good
ofthe tornmonwealtlr. ··
Ifthe kingdom does not contain mines- of gold and silv.er,. ia:
suffiCient quantity, Government can· purchase-Qullion, in;
case there is a baiance of general trade In favor o£ the country.
by which· the merchants- goid.; for ill8tance, if mer-
chandize is exported by Great Britain to several nations, .viz. to.
A 51 B 8, C 2, D +, E: 8, E' 2, G 2, H 5,. I I, L 20,.
M N 2, 0 3,· P 5, and the merchandize imported .by .Great
Britain is from A.6, B l, C 1, D 5, E 2,. F 1,. G l, II 6, I .I._
L 23, M 7, N 11 01, P the total export ia 'Z9,. and-
o1git1zed by Coogle
j
Origi" of 115'
import 7V, ·a year's balance oftrade by which two mt1lion df·gaw. •
:af1d silver is brought into Britain. · ·
. ·The extension of .trade and has J*ed\lced -
various .
1-r:presentatives o/ money, to twoid the .-carriage ad r.isk of ·a
,in large masses•. The firs.t and substantial ,
,of the paper sccurit!es, is t:lte .bond of a land-holder., under .a
:tenure · c1f life <>r .as :the -land becomes the debtor. ·
Other seCftrities on ·public-coafideace, evanescent :
produce j>f wlbich .is cll8ttel prOJlerty. Promissory
Jfotes a precedent fc)r .Bankers Notes, ami
-the foreign transactionsof' merchants were the origin of Bills if
.E.rckange. These and all secllrities.1\l>e engagements fOr
the payment of legal money, and are to ·be not as the
of but as the representatives :0f
nese -principles the .foundations -{)f nnance, lsc, that .pro-
perty is ;land and ks produce:; 2. that money ·is the
t&tive ·s. that:the floating paper currency is in the
not ,but is
money. · · · . .
Banks originatetl in the favorable ·balance ef tl'trde,
_
deposited a surplus of gold'_1llld ·silver in the country; the c\\r-
,:rency of ·Bankers -
Ntttes depen<k or.: their contiCttience; and
public coitfidence -in die wisdom -and integrity of the Bankers.
These two bave superseded the necessity of keeping mew!
in the Bank cellars to the paper circulation. Pcivat.e· ·
:Bankers' Notes are representatives of the National Bank Notes;
they promise to ray National Hank Notes theN- OW'Jl..
.4JDd by the public confidence, SUflply a pomon -of •
tbe .doatmg
paper cutTency; · . . · · ·
· · comparative yiew-:.of die range taken by att d!ese
:tatives appear, if-a scale of proportiou.al extent was draw:tl
for cacb sort ,ofpaper. Gold and silver may be allowed a circle
.•. as the civ.ili:r:ed ; National Bar;tk Notes will luwe a. .
circle of the kingdom where tbey are by the ·
ment ;. private Bank N6tes a little £Ircle of city, town, or
Village f!om whence they emanate, throt1gh the Bankers
nexions, to -distaptpl'Ovinces ; M«chant$ biHs e,oJ.Iect in the focus
of an· 'Eicpange or Hall, where they bring' together distinct
transactions into the -simplicity of barter by thei-r inter-
changes, and finally determine the general balano¢ pf a nation's
trade into·the or !mport ofgold and
· most pr01pm_ept <>l the present sy&tem of a
:metallic representation. of JKoperty, a paper
of the metal money, 1s the present mstance m th1s country, of
the for die National Bank &om iesuing gold,
and makmg the Notes a legal payment for property. The
National Bank Notes, which ·were formerly current as represen·
iatives of metal only, until the will. of the holder.
o1git1zed by Coogle
116 lntrodttction.
sented them fOr payment, are now ·representatives of the same
until the Legislature shall take offthe restriction. The
of an·interruption to the. appearance of the thing represented,
is·an imperfectien in the sy&tem of .the metallic representation of
real property.
. To apprehend the danger arising from an ,.buse of that ju-
dicial power which regulates tlul of the current repre- .
sentatives of·property, a,nd to evince that the true principle is
tQ keep. the.floating eum ncy so ]h"oplWtionate to the 'Wa.
nts of the .
people, as not to stfffer much .fluctuation,. to arise the pt·ice
qf prapnty from the excess or tke wnt of a certain 91':
these representatiws qf /.and and its produce, it will be
to suppose an extreme case, from which all the medium circum- .
stances may be adduced. ·
· Sqppose an improvident King, :possessed of a rich and in·
ahauatible gold mine, and that he sends to his mint an immense
quantity of the metal which he issues in coin fOr various purposes,
we shall soon perceive, that the good of relieving his subjects
from taxes, or the evil of falling upon his neighbour Kings in
war, will be of small oonsideration, in the final consequences_
of using sueh a power to the 'Utmost extent. For in extreme
use, this power destroys itself. If gold is rommon 8i lead,
it will become nearly as cheap, and cease to be a portable re-
presentative of property; then the landholdera and artisans only
(!80 live, and they resort to the primitive system of barter,.
aided by the convenience of paper founded on
possession of land and its produce. .
The evil is not so if an improvide11t King negl89ts to.
supply a sufficient quantity of metal money for tho currency of.
his people. The want· of it will only exerdse ·their ingenuity
paper of . The
prices of ortleles of hie cannot retrograde to become cheaper, m the.
same manner aa they can proceed in becoming ; but in
both cases, all those whQ are not landholders, or artisans useful
to landholders, will suffer in various degrees; from first
slight privations, to the }&<;t stage of poverty; and the
?f a support, b,r labour, or the !andholders.
I he cJrcuJt ofgold and s1lyer through all nations, at first
retards destruction at home, but finally extends it to all theother
countries. To the . quantity of. cqrrency ne..:
cessary, suppose a pa1r of scales, CQntammg m one scale all
the land and produce of land by art, which is at marketi in the
other· scale, aU the representatives of this land, &.c.
representatives men have devised in metal coins, and the repre-!.
scntatives of metal coins in paper hill$ and notes, taking the
average of what is afloat, for the flttctuatlon by
celling notes, melting and· exportmg If the
of one 11cale is 10, we afe to the cOJ1tents of the other, at
o1git1zed by Coogle
FitJanu. ll7:
pTesent moment, 10 also; as every thingfiodsits own level, we.
shall suppose the present.quantity of the cnrrency,' the level of.
necessity ; it follows, that any artificial of this level,
will. raise the v.allle of what .is in one scale or jn, the other. I£
metal coin or paper notes are added, making' the l'CP,resenU&tive'
20, the holders ofthe property in the other ')¥ill get twice .
as much for their sales as before. If.metal or papeJ;' is out,
that is, withdrnwn from the currency, so as to the 10 to 5,
tbe holders of the pro.Perty in the other scale, will only one'
half as much for the1r sales as before. Th.e ruin9U.s .c$\amity;
in these to numerous clas,ses of societ1·, is not be<;ause tJiere;
is any certain quantity of money tl:lat .should be ascertained "nd.
kept afioat ; for it ·is no matter·what the of the xepresen-.
.
tation is, provided it is kept nearly in that level. .The-q1ischief
&j>rings from the progress.of a rise, or a fall, in the J}.eces-
saries of life: for.th1s reason, that the and payments ofall. .
dasses of the community cannot advance or recede simultaneously:.
The multitude of the.upper and middle of. }iie, who have'
1·.etired from the occupation ofland, bu!liness, or ; depend:-
ing for eas.e affiuence on certain receipts of money, would find
•t length that this sort of money was of no value, except
ornaments or utensiJs. The legitimate cause for encreas.ing
floati.l;tg is th.e encrease of the produce of land in the
works of art; $nd embellishments of life. But the l9o!!t·rigid
of an .e"J,Ce&Sive of property on this.
nccount, is the prolongation ()f .. health ID a nati(JD•.
A temporary and partiaf fluctuation in the price of the. necessa-
ries of life, }Vill unl).voidably arise from the varlations in the
harvest, general balance 'of trade, ta:l{.es on import export;
peace, war, mortality, &c. 4 judicial interference, .by adding
to or taking from the floating currency .on these accoijnis,. may
have an inj11rious effect. To keep prices. from fluctuating, by a
fluctuation in the ma.Ss offloating currency i the channels through
which the of property disappear, and the inlets
through which tbeymay are to be watched. mass
encreases by coina.ge, foqnded on a favourable balance of.trade,
which deposits gold l\nd silver in tl1e COUntry : Or by the of
Bankers, in dissemhl6ting their Notes in all the receptacles of
public confidence ; the.mass qecreascs, by an unfavourable
lance of trade, which throws the duty of Government upon the
Banker, and oblig.es the Legislature.to shield the Banker from
the performance of his promise, until the balance of trade 're-:
tarns ; a circumstance which has been noticed as a most capital
infirntity iu the.system of metal money, as founde4 at present on
c:ommerce, and the working of mines. ,'
The progress of commerce, and the convenience or necessitieS
of nations, have made paper supersede in nine parts out of ten,
use ofsold mguey. f<lper represeutatlve of gold coin ;
o1git1zed by Coogle
ns Introduction.
. .
thti'thing represented is not equivalent .in .sum ;to :that wllich ·
rresents it. Paper .is founded on gold .coin ; the superstructure
is to? · the .a!td the i'
to dtscover: a. better foundatwn for _that paper, whtch ts now
identified 'with ibe hab.its'of mankin'd in ·Simker5 · Notes and
Silk .. The abolltimi of the system of
be '?o _to the ";l"reasury, ¥ spe-:-
v.nce of as Is c?ual to t_he _
cu.rrent value as
.canuo.t be they wtU always .fi.nd
lc•;e'l thtou,ghout t1le clVlhz.cd world. · Tbc attempt to com
u10ney._at a· noininnt value,. only .for .tt reduce
to tlie leyel ofBan\ .current ·in kingdom where
!egal. In _
is naturally
lect to .that 1s a _of metal _
.lfHUley, a of 'l'ef!-l pr_opf?!·ty.
fY.e :with tpe are interes.ted
t1u.• trans'fer ofso powerful a momentum, from the commerctal '
tO thc'landed interesi.' . 'lfhe JllOSt . of such
an alteration, would be encrease,4 di.fficulty t.>f
.auul invasions, as all money w,ili
Bills of ansmg f!om commerc1a1 transactions.
. .I.t ,of that fo_r,ce a .system.
I:t a pnvate BanK can dbtam a certam mass of National Bank
Notes on the lauded St'CW ity of its firm, .this is nearly a model
for a ·new and good foundation in the National Bank. That
wbic'h the National Dank in its wisc.lom may think necessary
be done with some private Bankers, is excellent counsel to the
finanCier who wotJld dcviseiniproveinents in the relations of the
Nationa1 !Jank to the
is indi.spensably necessary, m fa.tc asstgnats,
have Stock or land 1p tlte CJ!Clll!lstances,
as Hie Bank property was tn gold com, that IS, ready
to be deliv.erecl to the holders of Notes ; ·ibat this is not
impossible, we nlU,Y. suppose a Foo.rii, lmng piaps of the
Ban'k 1ands, ·teased hkc Church iands, for a .short term ; a cer- I
tainlarge sum of Notes, t;tot less than being
presented b,y ail or for payment m land,
choice is made by the' Note holders .among the maps, ·and a con.:.
'·eyaru:e is to.tW:m of a equivalent to money,
a.t the of a JUry, :as .common at present \n othet
cases. It may be that.. lM,d.hqfders .will not risk
dte sale of their land; but when the profits ·of the Banking bu.:
sirifas by the mass of Notes in circulation fs considered, 'the risk
unpleasnnt thmi the possibility that Bankers. endured of
\>oing oalled on for more gold in payment of tbeir Notes thari
tll<'Y the bolder ofa Guinea Note inigbt dema!ld gold1 .
hut the 'l10Mers on1y of 1arge should be entttlecl to
demand land. There may not be 'land in .the market' to ena!
o1git1zed by Coogle
1Jledici11t. 119
ltlc tLe present lJanker& to alte1:their system, and the chain or
aenures from the fceholder to the landbQlder in most laJlds,. ma.y
cause some difticulty, but interest will remove it ; and the laaded
proprietors will readily become bankers.
The objedion that paper is easily melted or otherwise de-
stroyed, may be removed by a partial use of metal notes, or
tokens, which is practised at presellt. Promissory notes tOr
large sums may be inscribed on plates of gotd by inventions to
avoid forgery as easily as those on paper. If there are insur-
mountable difficulties to the abolition of the present system of
Royal coin, the akhemiat may rest satisfi.etl, that if lie was S()
fortunate as to attain his he cannot attempt performing
any extensive work of mercy in mcml or medicine at a less
risk, if than imprisonment for it would be the
duty of the Legi11lature to enact a law for that purpose.
To i11dulge a proper alchemical dream, we must suppose tlie
Royal coin ofthe present system abolished. Paper Bank Notes,
and gold, silver, or copper Bank Tokens, the direet representa-
tives of real estate, which is ready to be to the holder
ofa certain large sum on demand. The Nation that takes the
lead in regulation, repeals the penal neces111ity that proscribes
the adept. A profusion ofgold will only supply to the
goldsmitlls proportionate to the wnnts of their and·truu-
mutation will 111top at the point where other metals 81'e more
useful. All other nations must follow the ex,ample of the first,
as the circulation of gold wil.J t!> the same lnel ;
the embellishments and utensils of life wdl be Improved, and Ut4!t
Banking system secured from an r:oer issue of floating currency,
by an infallible principle of reaction. But the greatest advau-
tage to is the reformation of ! health
be established m those who are moral, while the unmoral wdi
be cut oif by the use of the
with the reiterated phySical conscquem:ea of sm. The elixu-
may be diluted in matter till. it pervades the preparations
meat and drink, and the .Medical Faculty, empowered by the
open exposition of philosophy, may then devote
their lives to the·exaltatlon of the human race.
In this land ofliberty, an extensive company great landed
proprietors may erect such a Bank, was described, and by
the wisdom oftheir the1r Notes. and Tokens may
&nke plaee of all other curremy.
o;g,llzed by Coogle
o,9;t,zedbyGO gle
J
·
.
DIONlSlUS ANl>R.E_AS FREHERJ
IJf tk ;,·the Pr6een of tile PHn.osePJJHJ
to ·th....t REDEl\fPTJON oF ·MAN, tltrotJgh
:,JEsus 4CCO,f/4!,g f,Q tlte Wril.tilgB of
;}ApOIJ B,aiME¥• · .
. '
o1git1zed by Coogle
.A.lcllemicnl Trentius.
light love desire, which is able to make a pure and light
substantially, viz. a heavenly body out of an earthly. . ·.
The whole work consists summarily herein, that TWO natures
be reduced to·oNz,. as they .were at bt>ginning. A heavenly
an<lnn earthly matter are to· be mutually unitecl; and brought
to a heavenly quality : . Earth must be turned in, and heaven
out. The mercury which is therein doth all this itself; the
arti8t .i& not to attetilpt it-be.cannot do it; he is to 'prepare
matter as is rt>quisite, and leave the work to be done by the
.work"?an which _is in. it _already_; ··
and faith are reqmred 1'11'hun. His -design ·1s no Jess 1
thnri tB
redeem a matter from the curse, and to mise it ft:btrt. the dead,
which never can be done by one who is dead }li.thself in hiS
understanding, and internal lifP.. · · · : .··· ·· ;' ·' ·
When these two requisites' 'tte ffmnd in the artist, first, an
experimental understanding from the process iii his owti re-!
an.d secon_d!Y.' .CJlll
two quabt1es will be requtre<hn liim;·when he ts to make
a beginning of his work ; and these are represeritoo·by Bel'nnen,'
frorn that parable ot' iotlt'
.down from to and'was roboed' and' wounded
by . saying, · the ·nrtil>t ·mtist t'ruly · · itl,
:figt}re' of tlie rnereiful Samaritan, and 'haYe his will,. that
may nothing .lq.·: heal: that ·which· k i,
nnd h1s that' flc . see the· 'Yo?niled OO.d;r.
that heIst? wh1ch llQt'eust or bY. every one
·because ·oflts · · · : ·· · ·· · ' · · · ' · J
.P • ·-r ' . . .
. He shall have tlie greateSt of such eyes in the very: \>e-
ginn!ng, .)Vhen. to cJni$e the proper rnatte-f for .
sophie ts' culled by Behmen, and descrtl)ed pata-
bolically, that evil child, whicfi run out frotn .its .
Louse, and tq be fir self, ot to stand by itsdf on }iS own:
foundation; thiil mj.lst · be 'soughf'for ih'Satum, which
tberelbre, . the ·artist must :have shlirp·'$nd pietcing eyes to
look into, both. as t6 eternal and temportU riatare fhr.the \\Tath
of G0d, its strong sstringent impression, hath shut it up
iq the chamberof death ; nQt that it tqrHed it into Saturn; but it
it oi shut·up in the &turnitte death; in the first,·
col<J, har$h; dark, astrinaent property ;;wbicfi·· is calle<J .the·
. of:
· 'When this proper matter is found in· Saturn, the·artist may
to ·if be and follows pr0ce8s;, wh1Ch Gotf
observed m the Redemption, and restoration of mankmd,·thtough
'his 'ana t'o h!s retfurrectiott
and· : m· so ··dmng he may find the JOYful'feast of
viz. that desirable tincture in outward nattri-e, which
is answe.rable to ·that ·holy and spiritual tincture1 · whereby St.'
.
. . . . ... .' .
o1git1zed by Coogle
FreluJr's Annloi.!J. ·
Peter, in semton, tinctured tbree.tbousand
ent souls at once. When the human the outspoken
word _
of hutn611 life, was infected arid poisoned by the
and was left in its falsehood witlwut the light ; God did not reject
the as to annihilate it, and make another strange or
foreign Adam: he .restored that which was apoiled.-This he
effected not by strange things, which the humanity bad not in it
before, .but by that same holy, divine spirit; which. at first wnti
iqto Aqam, to make him an image and likeness ofGocL
This he re-introduced io the poisoned humanity, and made
thereby .a good1 sure, and eolid disposition to the new
.i and this was done in the immaculate conception
,/esus C,brist : for therein a conjunction was made, between
· ihe eternal speaking; and human outspoken word, ·the mercury.
lifc, .which waa poJ.soned in fallen man, and w&S full
.... . must be the first eons1deration of an artist, wh1ch he IS
own-will. . • . . . .
#:i.. . _. e.aod ponder, that he _
may act accordingly, and br.ing
*;·:.. matter to the fire, ":ithout such
· wucss he will work m vain, and make
him.d£. The artist is to know, that he is not
t4il'bl8 the tendency .to .perfection, into his matter from
but that it lieth therein already. He must be capabl!t
orthe divine'will, and then with his renewed or tinctured
which is -his holy faith, must handle his subject matter, thlit
10 the will towards perfection, which lieth in the matter still
,.nd implovable, may be stirred up, and brought into conjunction
with his will, and with the divine will; and that this
divine will may press torwnrd to meet and bless that outward
:v;pich presseth inward from the corruption into God's love
and mercy. · · ·
. J.lliis is recommended to the artis!'s highest considerati?n,
to make Jt hJ$ continual study and practice; because the
baptism consisteth herein, and this is the very first be-
ginning ofit. This can enable him to baptize truly and
; he is to baptize his matter not only with the water of
the outward, but also with -that of the inward world.
. wilderness wherein the -temptt\tion is' offered, is, in tbe
work, the outward, earthly, dry, desolate, and
barren body, wherein the mercury or. young man is not abl_
e
against the Devil, except be lay hold on the virgill,
and be by her supported. l:Je is therefore to unite with he)', to
cast his will and desire into her lovt, and to eat of her hrend,
oot of his .own netllt'al quality, like as Christ- our Lord, all the
fmt.fJ da!JS <!f his temptation, did eat only · of the eternal
speaking word, nnd would uot eat of that bread which he conld
have made out of the stones. All which is nothing else, but thAt
the mercury muRt admit nod receive into his own poisonous qua..
lity, the hcaYenly tincture, and suftCr the serpent's the
o1git1zed by Coogle
.Alchemical Treatises.
fi"ery writthmtProperty, tb be t'>fl)fsid'tl\eteby .in •bich ·
ff lie doth J'!Ot, .tlie devil will pte\faiJ, aiid' detA:in trlTil eapti\'e
fn that stnte, wher.ein he is mtcn separated from his virgin:.
ak'ti!lt glaould' take not to suffer .. devil
t6.be wo fu:rio.us, or wrattlful, ·but ; and on t'l'le
bther harid; thllt lie'be not toa weak or for· otl'lentfs«!' ·
t'he. mercury would not & assaulted by hirh sufficiently, and
tnight, as aliuttgty wolf, swallow up liis baptism, return to hit
own wtathful property, and continue stilf that same poiaoaout
ihing, which it Wa"S bcfure. · . . ·
.- At the end .of forty wflcii t1le dmt eridetl aft t'he-
temptatiol1, must depart' from tbe Lord Cftrist, and the-
!lngt!k come .and minister to 1Hrli. Tliis the artist is
tlally tO obller\fe; for be stood m tfte tl'iaf.Jtimsel(_ mny
petceive whcthet ol' ·not he is· fit f6'P; od acountc!d
worth;>t of this work ; if at the end of &ty days,. to
the of Cbriit, the angefs noc appear, ie- may eon..
ciiKle lte is not successful: ali<f that! Itis hry masculine IDei"CU!'Y
does·not yet stand' in·u doo irttetnal ttnion with the 'htel'y .fi..;.
:rrtinine meredJY, but tl1nt it & still tfle. S4nte· in ·fu ..otat'fitUl
quality, .that it was before, the ting dml
prevailed. But if he sees die tngn1 of the- an s,·.tie
rej<))ee, and asarured that tJ!1e bridegroom unit t<J hiibride',
ud·she to him, and that Iris worl prosperS'. · ·., ·
fnnnediateJY the ecmptation, .and' ovetcomin'g ()f the
devil, lbe Lord Christ iegan hfs public oflfce, n<>t ottlf
preaching, repro-riug,. die people, ·Also .tJY
working Db\ny great,: Jt\traculous, ana 811lll%1.ng t'hings,. '
all the prQperLies of natul"e ; for instance •in be railled
-ep·the delld';. m.Lttntt, transrimt_ed water irito •me;
with five lOMJes· ef bread, five thousand men; ia .Ttlplte'l', le'
tbade oat of oe simple and ignormt fishermen, die mMt··
...-e
and · apostleS'; in Mercury, he made t;tw, deaf,
liearing ;. the dumb, and healed die. :.: in Mars,
Jae expelled devils from the possessed in JTenfJ!, he; u•
brethren and sistel's as (C)' the humanity, and ga"e bia .H6f
iw them into d'eatll'. ·
· The seventl1 property, wllkh is Sol,·staDding na tlie Jllidst,.
uuiting thtee and three,. is here not me1itioned, because
tbis bel<>ngeth to the fuU perfection, which theb <mly wa. at•·
tained unto,' when he risen tlle dead, ascendM up
to ht!aven, and ·had pt>ured' out.fne Jiol,.-tincturing-spirit, on thef
dayof Pentecost.
· . The artist see, tlrilt ·diere is li ttne and exaci
accordance to tl1is i'n the pliilosophica.L lV'br}t·;- fot when the..
i>rty days temptation is happily ended', he shan see, in·
sbat _
the mercurx rai'seth'.up (ron\ death, that' same dead' su}):..
wherein. he was.siaut up· before; in Llna, ttla& ltetem:lett..
• • " I • t
o1git1zed by Coogle
•• . .' \ • "C
·'Ptder 1 ·'Afla1oty.
tnd iiourislietli that mostliffl:e,- is 1iot1i!'l'ig' orlf#irolj
wrougli't, w&ic;:li if. could be fed and nourisf ed' witlt; ml'd agiin,
fhat tlie deadly water is ex·afted ttnd turned intd 'Wi!fe, By ha't'ing
a wirie an u1rion of a liety· and' watery l'irtlfe ;· i'n .J,upitM-,
shall see the four elements end\· by itself, antt thefr colotrrs, ttiid
a similitucfe of tlie tainbow upon ·M1<idi Chtist shteth'fdt j tidg·
m'en! iti the riierctn'y : tnat he $Balf.l:ie' amazei:f
at it, anq perceive that the wisdom of God playeth and deli'glitetf.
aS' irr a jo,Yfiif pfay: foi' tlie frielidly J1.rpite1' she,¢eth
forth his' prolJctty, art& snch .a manrte:f res God wilT iri its
change this world, and' trsnsn1irtc it irito Paradise in M r'Ctlrj1,
be shall see th-at hetfvcn scpatatrl itself ir6ffi· ti11C'Jadll', ffldt
it sinks down again Into the' and' ch'atig'etfr rbe same.i'ntd
its own c6lonr, and tli-e jJi·{Jdr'St_
he sh:all see, that Jup1ter ttr thf'l' -mercury, ca'sts aut froth t'he
matter upwards, a black whicli wiU 'be
as soot in the chimney ·; and tHis' is' poisonous· hunger i:d
the mercury, rightly to be compafed to the devjJ, because it lrath
according to its owi1· Itind, tli'e· devi.l's' quafities. . A5 s6on as
this bl:tc]( devil is expelled from tlie' matter, the a'rtis't shall
enus irr her "Virginity with gre:it Beauty and glory, \tl:iicH
.U. nne type or emblem of the great.love of ChriSt.
Now wlien this the artist is rejoi'ced, arid diirikS' his
'Work is finished, aml tl'tat he hath the treasure of'the wbdd; But
he- shaH .B'rtd himself extrem·ely' di5app6int'ed; f.6r if he tries'if.
he &hall find it is but still a- and no"t si. ptit f!
mascuime virgin, . with· obth· tinetnr_es united into one·: :rs
in Clirist; the eternn.I.:.sp'eaking-word, wha wr6ugli\ out, tliroitgh
bis humanity, wondrous deeds; and yf!f fuU oouhl
not -be· manifest tliereit1 ; his·hnman•botl_l ·c6uia pbt Be
and mucli less could' he pour <il.!t ..Jirol):' Ghost,. lSefo!e.. he
passed through the !,"teat anger· of Goo; or· denrh· and· lieU.
So also in this philosophical work, thougli' all' these' gforious
things appeared in the properties Of nature; ·yef the·universnl
tincture is not fixed and·manifest; all1 that was seeri' liitlierto
was onlr transient, and .the gre:ltcst pal·t of the \\·ork still re-
mairts to be d'one for' its fhmtion or manifestation.
A1f the- seveir properties.. nius't be made totally pure arid
cb'rystalline, ·before can· paradisical ; each of pro!.:
perties• liatb ·its· peculiar 3;nd if• to· pliss'
:&b'nl' the·Wtathful mto·the: pa'rad1S1cal !ife, Wherem m,tisi
all seven have but one will, viz. that of love ; . all their· for-·
mer own wm; wlhrrein each was for itself, mopposrti6n;1.0 the
otbets, muSt be'utterly swallowed· up; and thE!Ii oaly' &!hey 'ate'
fixed; an'd able•to·abide'the fire. .
l'n tlie philosophic· as soon as· Venus' appears' in J}'er'
beauty; with her own natural·character, in· order td perfection';'
a·great alarm, and ·wsurrect'ioli' agaitiSt·itef'
r
o1git1zed by Coogle
AlcTu:micnl 'l'reatisq.
inSaturn, Mercury, and Mars ; the first- of- which a
true figure of the civil .the second, of the eccle..
siastical state, and the third, of the devil;. and as these
jointly were the same chief agents that. brought the Lord of
Life and Glory unto death, so in .this philosophical work, the
three inferior wrathful properties, Saturn, ·Mercury, and Mars,
are rightly called by Bchmen, the three murderers of
Venus.
. There is no other ground for this great opposition, but that
Venus is &om above, and these three are from beneath, united
in one wrathful sphere, and unwilling to be deprived of their
natu1'1;Ll power and ere--dominion. Heaven stands now in hcll1
upon earth, and WlU transmute them all into paradise ; and hell
perceiveth.its ruin is inevitable, if it receive. into it this child
:from heaven ; and therefore it swelleth up aaainst it, and op..
poseth all it can ; but by this opposition, 1t must and doth
promote its own destruction, as it waa also, in the er
Christ.
Here it might be objected, ho• can thia.be consistent with
what was declared above, that the matter was purified, the devil
expelled, and the sign of the appeared. If so, whence
can such a \\'rathful-bellish oppotntion arise ? But it is ensilJ
answered. Behmcn says, when the mercury is awakened &om
the death of Saturn's strong impression, by the manna, or
heavenly food of ·light and love substantiality, which is his
own true virgin, or water of life ; the pltilosophical baptism
is reccived into the poisonous property, and a joyful fire anseth ;
it is aa if a light were kindled in the darkness, and a paradisical
joy and love springeth up in the of the wrath. When
Mercury gets a twinkling glimpse thereof in Mars, the
wrathfulness is terrified at tlie love, and falleth bade or sinketh
down. This is not yet a transmutation, but is like one ;
yet not constant or fixed ; if therefOre a an4
radical transmutation shall be made, the same process tlaat
like a transmutation must be repeated again, but in a fut higher,
or rather deeper degree ; this can be repeated again,
the harsh, bitter, and wrathful-hellish properties, were
pressed only hi part, and not. fully rooted out, and radically
turned into one only will ; they arc now raised afresh, h.f
this appearance of Venus, much more than they stand
\JP ·in opposition .against her, to maintain their own natural
l'ight.
So it was ·also in· the process with the Lord Christ, when.
he wail going into the strong severity of the wrath and anger of
God,· in order to the full consummation of his great work, he.
iaid expressly of himself; I am not alone, the father is with me;'
he had with ·him from above, the father, and this unalterably.·
•o his..divinity, though ·alterable as to ·the sensibility Qf his
o1git1zed by Coogle
Prcher'• Analogy. .127
(mtward which may appear, by his crying
out on. tbe cross, " xny Ood ! ·my God !·why bast ·thou for-
me ?" From beneath, he had with him the comiJ}on
people; who received and accompanied him with great joy and·
acdamations when he came an ·ass into
So also in the philosophic work, Vcnus is not alone, but as it
were, from above, jupiter is with her, and from beneath luna,
which is a true figure of the vulgar and simple class of people ;
luna cleaves to venus .as the disdplt.'S did with Christ,·so ·tong as
it goes well with her, Of at tolerably, .that. is, so long aa
saturn, mercury, and mars, do not actually and manifestly
exert their malice against her; but when these three murderers
•rist\ and will forcibly put her to death, or swallow her up
into their wrathful pit ; then luna also changes her colour and
as the vulgar people changed their'will) and instead
of thfir ·former hosanna, cry out, cnx:ifY him, crucifY him.
& sl60 in · this philosophical work, when · it · cometh to the
great ·earnest struggle, the artist shall plainly perceive a terror
and treritblil4g m'die work ; he shall see, that mercury which is
tile principal agent agniJ)st .trembleth at the appearance
efvenus ;. and venus; lllso, not only trembleth at the'opposition
ef th'e wrathful murdering property, but it is as .if a ·sweat
did break 'out' from her body, and nevertheless she is not
stirriJlg, but · t}uiet 'ttnd patient, resigned and ready to sWfer
all they can inflict upon her, to be wholly swallowed up by them
into their wrathfulness. ·
' In the process of CIH.-ist, the devil· said or thought with him·
aelf: 1 am· lilone ·the great monarch in the fire, satwn is ;my
Jbight; andmercury my life, and I am in them a prince and god·
of this world' and will.therefore .not suffer that such another.
as ·calls ·himeelf ,a prince of love, should rule therein ; but I
will hiin· in iny.wrath, together with his love ; this he
intended indeed,· but ·he copld not effect it by himself, :without
the ·concurrence of the two cbief principalities of this outward.
world; · h-e stirFed l)p mercury and saturn, the ecclesiastical
and the civil g9vernment; and then all three went together,..
sent ·apprehended the Lord, bound and car-
-ried him 'from the one Unrighteousjudge to another. ·•
· Thus alsO in work, the m;tist shall/lainly..
eee that venus, whtch "Is all pa661ve, wholly resigned, an ready,
to enter into the dragon's jaws, ·is surrounded on every side by,
l!lkturn,- mars,·· and mercury, ·81\d·· aS it were is appr.ehepded, or.
captivated, by these in conjunction ; und that they lay.
hold and bind her; by daiti_
ng theit:severkl poisonous rays. upon
her; and then carry her from the one of
io ·another, · as if to be by them: tried, . and
judged. , · .. ... .
. • ln the first place, mare bringeth venus to mercury,.(ls
o1git1zed by Coogle
D1g1tized by Coogle
. Analogy..
property, mixed with the fiery mars, as the artist shall dis-
tinctly see. When venus in this royal appears mer..
· cury, saturn, mars, and luna, the latter bemg changed m her.
will, joins herself with the three chiefmurdering properties, and .
tbef alto8ether with one consent reject her ; they dart forth
malignant,.PQisonous, fiery rays upon her, by the
of saturn ; so that the artist shall .distinctly see that
is scourged, and full .of stripes ; he shall see
exactly the crown of thorns, with its sharp stinging prickles ;
the whole in the suffering and death of Christ, is a ·
representation contrariwise of the process of the
iu his transgression ; this . is distinctly shewn .by
)lehinen : and as the condition of .man in the fall, is
with earth's condition in the only different from it ill
¢.elrfe1 as,he asserts, and demonstrates ; so also the n;tanner and.
.of their restoration cam1ot hut be alike. 'And as ·th-
.Christ, in all his sufferings, was most profoundly humble
fP4passive, opening not his mouth, but enduring all
in a full submission to the pleasure of hia
.Father.. :So also in this philosophical \vork, the artist ·shall
the heavenly part is wholly passive, standing quiet, and
Now as the mother of Jesus was ble&sed among wo-
sothe artist obtains a blessing in th.i!i miserable world, that
may tincture his corrupted earthly body, and preserve it in
unto termination or. end . of his highest constella•
tion, which is under saturn. .'\\nen saturn therefore is at hi&
end and limit, and leaveth that life of which ae bath been a
leader, no universal tincture can prolong that life · any
thirsteth after the manifestation pre-dompuon o£
-fire oflove ; bnt mercury, in tpe sulphur of mars aatum,
·presseth itself into her, with his killing dissolvent, which is the
·greatest poison ofthe dark wrathful source; but venus instead of
drinking same down, yieldeth. up herself wholly thereinto,
as if sl1e actually died. And from hence the great darknea.
the philosophical work ariseth. so that the whole IJlatter be-
cometh black as a raven. .
the inward sun of the eternal light's principle, in the
luunanity, had given up itself into the dark wrath and anger
of God ; the outWard sun in this third .principle ·could not
shine, because it taketh all its f$lance and lustre from the inward,
as a representative figure or muror ther!M>f. In: the
work, the artist see what God hath in the humanity,
whe
.n he was to . and br
.
·ing it into Paradise ; he
shall.see a gn:at supernatural venui )ieldeth up
)ler life, on wb1ch all her lustre· all her "'beauty must
disappear, and darkness cometh up thereat: Nay he.
also see, that not only .in 'hree ·!rat,hfu1 prg-
o1git1zed by Coogle
f>erlies, but tllat ·tl\ree tiehllklve5, in velms; .d\5·JoMt
Ufe ;, .and. that. aU . and 88 i
¢al ; for Weile life iind he ·sriU ttn'd qmcl: m tl!.e
o(.OOd, t() hiS The etl\t il
dttee;i to bw-ammng; 8Dd standeth in that order,.
C.
reati'ori• orilr!W is
iliid all.is thlfeit Robie to the of tlle fir6t .· :
· . arlfst bath hitherto scet1 .imuiy wonderful rhings, artd
ny,peattniees' made g'rent hope
and expectntlOh; yet rloW hts e'Xpect'atiotr II sPJ>are)\t}y
tnktett · For the i*\tOle n«ture dieth in his ·
arid· !te
illat it. i1\t6 'a . ;.all tlre ptopemew, pow.;
Iici\t ·tettse · to wl\at they Were t>etOrt<,
into tlie '&id of nutttre. All up its former Uk ·taiftd
ivltt;,..1tnere h .or
are scltttered, and tntered mto the.ftrsi
.· irbe!-ei:n they were before ·the :Creafft>n·; tJM,
is riot that the materiality is made
,l:i'
·
t
· q 'ite an
.. '; but .·only, that all tlic power's tlrereint
hie ·. ·tlfe wt&'pOken pl'opertit!$ bad &o1h.. Eti'rJ!ad
Riid w'hiCJii w'ete up againSt eAclt Otlher m
Einch ot 1
tfttm accmm :·· io itS ow-n nature; .Wr-e
Wu of tlteir. fictivrty in nnd earthlY 1tftBft:r:I
liitil . horrie ag'llin iilt'O the po#er of E ·. · .
having :i.io otlier.way, nor gate, but ·deiath*
ls'tdiigli .wliieh they enter Wbm . t1te clftse il\'!o their
primitive Btit when tl1ti.O; tbey
selVes, and- m die' hand c:Jf the Eternal \tUrd, this ttut.
them .up again as a new creation, ·in lift•
awerablene5s to the resuTrectton of Chrrst. · ·
The Lord Chtist died indeed; as to .tJie 1
fr6iftt
this world; but he tool: the .Sl\me hiurian f10dY ·m ·lfli
tesoriection,,:.ati.d 1o9t. t16tliinff· pf bnt .thil
the fuur eMl'rents, . wlie're'in· qe "'rMhi ·curse, drid mortidity
lieth. So ,iri 'this \Vork, ·the firSt mlitte'r is
the curse (jrtly 'ii destroyed, in ·tfie etemehts;
and the first life in the one eternal element, is i'tdSed ·up 'tt#NJ;
and ffler(!foie it'is'no'W fi'lted ·afid 'eatt·abide thi! fire; 'a•glotioua
new Pod'v fs of the blatk dttrknesS, in 3 ··fait white tolfho ;
ftlia.th.ftllldden in it; .the coldtri- be1efiictlt
uniil it itself, 1uid the 'bt#r
toYucth ·np; and then mimtU:tn's centre, but iri .ttiWI
l'etJits's propettJ, .t'h·e Su'n arisetli. · This is iii the 'filit like.1t
iiew.. when. ddne; 'illl tlre 'fbt$
imammously 'the1r de"Stte mto st>l ; nnd tHe ate
turntd into ·a inixtttrc of white and ted, from 'Are ititl light 'bi
union, t."ta:t i$, irlto yellow, which is the colottr Of inajeSty. ·
. of lbve; to wruthfltl properties ·t1{'
o1git1zed by Coogle
Frelur's .Analogy. 131
ness, cause! a gTeRt teJTor. The wratllfulness is mightily ex-
asperated by this appearance of love, and presscth vehemently
to it up in death; wbich.actuniJy it doth; but seeing
that no death call be therein, the love sinketh only down,
yieldeth up herself into th('SC murdering properties, and die-
playeth among them her own loving essentia1ity, which they
must keep hi t'hcm, imd caqnot get :M· thereof. 1s a
poison to deAth,''oncl n pestilenCe to hell ; lOr. the wratliful
properties are mightily terrified, at this entering of love into
them, which is so strange and contrary to tlleir own qua-
lities, which makes them iill weak liind impotent, so that the?
must lose their own will, strength, and pre.dominion. So 1t
was in the death of Christ, and after such a manner, largely
,_) · by ; -<-WSe in
*litu»IPlity, was killed ·Md d.:atfoyt!P in by the deat,lt
.of CbJsist;.!Wbo, a.ies' his had no more the forqt.
d :.a in his hod7, b)lt t.ha,t
,. AUm hwi beiOre his iiai. All.d 1'0 1t lf in th1s pblloll6.-
pbjqd .Pie tlJld U)Jlt,.J. :killing, ·thoogh ia
pq>tely ao deeth, ,b,ut ®Jy .a :tra.nwu.tation ·union Qf
iJtte ooe, when ,Y,ieldeth up her:life to the wrathful propel'!
&ies;·.ausd ..,qm tbeile luwing lost Uteir pre-dominion, are raised
ap:agajll-IID life, the life of the awger, and Uie life of the
- .ueJ¥>moretwo, but nomore a JlUl}e and female
property, but a whqle male virgin, boW. tJncluret united
jn GPe. ·W8en jhe araist .eetli. the red blood Qf the.male rise
fm:qt.dealb, .aad.oome fomh oot .of the black dai'kne88,
ia imm...;U. tthe oft.be·virgin, he may then Jqww
t.luitJrebadtdle great of the world, and JW.ch a treasure
u ;ja in-timabie. Seveml t.bipga ,nwr.e .could be brought forth
fun JWuaen, ...Wcta would a,ff011d many excellent considera-
aioaa; hat :these may·· ..autliqent to shE$ that barmonioui
a&lalogy, ,whiah Js-between the offallen man, .through
mdttlae nature in:tbe philosophic
.-.. . . . . . ·
.ctr r&.iU U ·11001 fo:st pt'ittted ; t/l.e .Aut/zor 'W4.f> II
. Af{ Nm711bNg, and .died in ·Lmdon, 1'.728, aged ·79-
/:li• M&S. •e ·i.eposi(ell the Britilk Museum, in Twent!}-
OIIe ii:.tiatW, "111iti Figures, dich 'riiOflld make in print a larg4
guarlo .'DOIMmt. · · ·
o,g,,zed by Coogle
f"'''"'
' '
' 'l'll!l
., SECRET BOOK OF ARTEPHIUS.
Written in the 1'welftla Century.
1. A'K'TJMONY is a mineral participating of saturnine pa11fll;
and bas in all respects the nature thereof: This saturnine anti•
mony with sol, and contains in.itself al'gent in whiclt.
.no metal Js swallowed up, except Gold ; and gold Js . tmty swal-
lowed up by this antimoqial argent vive. Withem this·
\>ive no metal whatsoever can be whitened ; it wliiteftll Jaton, r.
gold ; reduceth a perfect body into its pt*ima' matt!ria, ·:or liNt
matter, viz. into sulphur and·antent vive, of a white colour1 and
outshining a looking-glass. It cfissolves, I say. the perfeetrbcxly'
which is so in its own pature; for this water ·is &Hendly anQ
.agreeable with the metals, whitening ·sol1 because it cxmtaius·.m
itself white, or pure argent vivc. . ' '. ' . . . ' . . . .
-2. And from both these yoti may draw .a great arcanum,
'Viz. a water of saturnine· antimony; mereurial ·imd .tlite·; to
the end, ·that it' mny whiten 801, nof butnmg ·but dia-:
solvin_g,. anti afterwards congealing ·to the· COMiaWnte or
ness of white Th·erefore, saith· the philosopher,, this
water makes tho body to · be ' volatile; because .after 't.-has
been dissolved ih it, and- infrigidated, 'it oscends'·at.we; ·aod
swims upon the surface of the water.· Take, saith .-he;· crude
qr calcined with·mercury, and put'it into oar
made of saturnine antimony, mercurial, and sal armoiliae, .ae it
is said, in abroad glass vessel, and fou'r inches high, or ;
put it into 8 gentle·heat;and in ashorttime yda·wUlsee'ele'NU<i
a liquor, as it were oil, swimming-a top, tnuch
Gather this with a spoon, or a feather, dipping it in; and10 doing
often times !l day, tiU nothing arise :'.evaporate 'away tho
water with a gentle heat, i. e. the supeifluous•hwoidity. of.thft
vinegnr, and there will remain the <{uintessence, potestates, or
powers of gold, in fonn of·a *bite ml incombustible. · In this
oil the phifosophers have placed their gteateiat secrets·; it is ·ex-
c:eeding sweet, and of great virtue- .mr easing the pains of.
wounds. · ·· : .....,. •· . '· · -
3. The whole, 'then, of this antimonial secret is, that we know
how by it to extract or draw forth argent vive, out of the body
of magnesia, not burning, nnd antimony, and a
o1git1zed by Coogle
Secret ·BOOk of Artephius. 133
Sublimate. Tbnt is, yon must eztzact a'living an4 utcombttStible
water, and then conge,U, or coagulate it with the perfect body
sol, i. e. fine gold, 'Yjthout is by disselving
Jt mto a.nature and white substaneet of the cpnsi&ttncy of cream,
and made thoroughly }Vhite. But fi·rst this sol by putrefaction
' resolution1
in this water, loseth a)l or brightness, and
will grow·datk and afterwards It-wdl· ascend above the
water, and _by little. will swim it, in !i substanCe
of awhite colour. is ·the whiteping'of red laton, to
I!§Ublimate it and to reduce it into its first
viz. into a white incombustible splphur, into a fixed argent
vive. And so the fixed moisture, to wit, gold our by theo
of the liquifaction or in this our,dissolving
water, Is' changed o.nd mto fixed .sulphur, and fixed
argent - 'l'hua the perfect body:of sol, resumeth· life iri this
water J it is revivedt inspired,..grows, and is multiplied in its kind;
.as all'Other are. .For in this. it so happens,
the body cnmJMiUDded of two bo<hes, VIZ.-Sol and Luna, iS
pnffed uv,·swells, putrefies, is raised up, and does increase by
receiving ·from the vegetable and animated nature and sub-
stance. ·
· +. Our' water also, -or vinegar aforesaid, is the vinegar of the
mountains, i, e. of sol and luna; and therefore it is mixed with
gold and·•sHver,·aBd aticks close to them perpetually; and 'the ·
body receiveth from this water a white tincture, and shines with
an Who so therefore knows ·how to ·
cOftvert; or change the body into a medicinal white gold, may
easily by·the gold. meta]s..into
the best and fiBett· silver. And thl8 white gold IS called by the
pbilosophti'B hnta alba pllilosopltonrm, argentum vivum alhttm
and .fi.nm.ts all!us :· and therefore without
this OUI' •timOBiel vinegar, the &!bum ofthe
emtll()t;-be And because m aur vmcgar, there ts a double
subStance .
tif llrgentQm ·vivum, the one from :antimony, the .
other from mmmry it does give a double and
substance of find llrgebt v1ve, and also augments therein the
nati're oolour, ,-eight, ,substance, and tincture thereof.
8; Ourditioltmg'wate'r thereforecarries with it a great tincture;
and'a or because that when it feels the
'¥t1lgar tmf, ift&ere be in it the puPe or ·nne bodies ofsol or luna,
it immediately Qllelts them; and'tonverts them into its white
atanee, sueh as is, and· gi•ea to the body colour, weight,
.utthincturt'.- -In it i6'a c
powder of ljquifying or melting all
that can be·melted or it ·is a water ponderous,
preeious, .and worthy to · be esteemed; resolving all
crnde bodies into their pt"ima:ma'teria", or first matter, viz. into
earth snd a 'f'iscous ,powder; that js, into sulphur, and argen-
tmn vivum. Iftherefore you put into this water, leaves, filings;
;Orcal,x-of-Ul1 metal, and tet it iu·'s heat for a time1 the
o1g1tized by Coogle
D1g1tized by Coogle
it'fitds-tlt\mt 'fntd a·liamid sctftS afMl fluid-,: 1Mta
ihgreaorumd p6wer to eater into otltcr imperfeet lDNie&, --J
to llli:i: with them ih their smtilest pal!ts,.and to tinge tlieni i:riJii
milke diem peneet< &t.this. Maey cbukl JJ0t tfo- r&
mli.e<l .ia tlreitt metllUie tot-ms. ot eodics:, whir.:b were 1lr:v end
Mm-, whleret!ily they.CGWW ha,-e oo ihto· other
eo to tinge and· mike perfect, what 1il.aS' · . ·.· ;
. 9. It is uecessaTy tberefore to eonMf; the bodit!ll Of IDftlllls t-.
• ftaid -sabstanee'; mry tineture win a tliousar.l
IDcire ma iOft and liquid su\istance; than WM!l it is· iA· •
dry 011.ef as plainly appwreet in·isaftton. Therefore ihe tr.a._
JDRtatND of imperfect is ·itllJl(lMible u, be flane b)' pe..W
.-bile they are dry anti bard: for w:llich mwic Slef
must be brought back into iheir first lmitller• which is 110ft an.l
fluirh !lt:Rppeat-s thercWrt>,. ·the moismre muSt btt i6vO.rtcd,
ihat the llidden tre8stt.re nmy'be revmkd.. And tl!B is Cdfcd )M
HincradatHm Of wJne& iS· :deeoc.ilig ood
d1f:fuey lose then- hard and dey snbstance or forln .;....
tfti:e tlmt .Jithieh iB dr.v does not enteto into, noi+ any·1lhiae
besides ia6if. ·The!refure.the terteue body doth ilat ;ettler
into,. •
Jror tmge,1except
.its own:booy,11or can it exeept••
tinjad1 bwreatllie, 111 I said befdre, a thick dry daei
llot,pmetrnte not tinge, and because it oanot . -.
..penetnteit'Cml make110 altetation in thematter to:be
Fe..- TeiiSOn it ·
iS, .taat gold·cole:uteth not, oatil ·ite :internal·or
be tlrawn·fOnh ont·of its o&r.. white
·Wates;.:dml lit be m.de .altogether a ·flpiritusl !Sobstaate,.
•bite VBpourfll white spirit, and awO'Dilltrfalsool. . · . , 1
·:to. ·It i>ehove6 tbefefore by oar water 60·ilteuubte.
idtnJ ·and:st>ften .th-e bG<lies, to. :wit sol .ldoe,
they may be mixed wtth other imperfect bodie)l. From .
.....ftnmt,
if- hnd;nb dtber benefit ·by''this ·oer antilftonial wanr, 'than
that-it'rendered bodier-more suhWle, 11oft, and Ouid, ac;c9rdiag.-
its••n -.tore; ·it woUld.be 10fticient. Bat tdor'li ·tiitln that, .¢
1
bedies tl1their·tii'St of solphbr and ·itutnhli!)}f
tiua;cif QJem we may sfterwarda in a-little'fime, :in lose.tben *
hdarls time.-de tliat above ground, wbieh.natUre
·dtn• grouoo, :in tlie mbttt& oi
Ja'B•*ork almest·mtracukms. . . . , . . ,
_: •JtJ:.; ·And ultime:te, ·or ··*""'
«Nar·"dter, :to make bodies vOlatile, ·sptrmal, abel a ·tilicttire. ·cit
whiell ·haveingr.ela imo!hodf&
'lWrit;,nbs·bfJcJil!s=- be Jilerely:spirit, bec&11se:it ·tedn«ies:hri
'llid)dry·bOdie$, aud them for fdsiom, meltibg, ..
tlat;is, it 4:8merts ·them into a :peru.Wlcnt i>r ··fiMI .
ADd Sb it:makes of bodies a:mOst·prec:IGU:.aiUI.._intble·.
true tincture, and ·the per.nwleDt·.or fumd
•aiew, 'by ·natlire:bGt ad moist, t>r:rather :temperate,
fasible u wu, which doea tinge, and make Pill"•
o1git1zed by Coogle
·136 ··· Alchemical Treatises.
feet;:the work. And this our water immediately dissolves bodia.
(as sol and luna) and makes them into an incombustJble oil.
:whiCh then may be mixed with other imperfect l:iodies. It also
converts other bodies into the nature of a fusible salt, which the
philosophers call sal alehrot pltil<Jsopkorum, better and more
noble than any other salt, being in its own •nature fixed, and not
subject to Tanish in fire. It is an oil indeed by nature hot, sub-
tile, penetrating, sinking through and·entering into other bodies :
it is called·the perfect or elixir, and the hidden secret.ofthe
wiae searchers of nature. He, therefOre that knows this salt of
sol and luna, and.its generation and preparation, and afterwards
how to commix it; and it hotnogene with other imperfect
:bodies ; be in,truth knOWtJ one of the secrets of nature,
and the only way that leads to perfeetion.
. 12. These bodies thus dissolved by our water are called argent
vive, which is not 1Vithoqt its sulphur, nGr the snlphor without
the fixedness of sol and lnna ; because gold and sil-.er are the
particular. means, or medium in the form through which nature
passes iMhe perfecting and completing thereof. And this argent
vive is called our esteemed and valuable salt, beiog animated and
ptegnant, and our fire, fur that it is nothing me: yet not
-
ire; but .sulphur; a.itd not sulphur only, but also quick-silver
'drawn from sol and luna by .our wawr, and reduced to a stone of
great price. That is to say, it is the matter or substanee of sol
·andluna, or silver and·gold, altered from vileness to-:oobility.-
'Now you must note that this white sulphur is the father and
.mother of the metals; it i& our mercury, and the minei'Bl of
gold ; also the soul, and the terment; yea, the mineral virtue,
and the living body; our sulphur, and our.qt)icksilver; that is,
·sulphur. of sulphur; quicksilver of quicksilver, and tnei'Cury of
therefOre of is, that it meltS or
dissolve& aold '81ld silver, and enercases their native tincture or
c:olour. li'or it changes their bodies from being corporeal, into a
spirituality; and is this which tnrns.tbe _bodies, or
poreal substance 1nto a wh1te vapour, whtch . ts a soul that IS
· whiteness itself, hot, and full of fire. This water is also
called the tinging or blood.colour-making stone, being the virtue
of the spiritu8.1 tincture, which nothing can be done;
tbe subjeet of aH-.thiflgs that may be melted, .and· of
iiqueMction which agrees perfectly, 1Uld unites closely with
.aol and, luna, from whichit can never be separated. F:or it·is
joined in affinity to the and sii'YeP, but more immediatel,-
to tbe>gold than to the ·silver : 'lihieh are .to take special
notice of. It is also ,called the· medium of eonjOiuing tinc-
ofsol and luna with.the inferiOr or imperfect metals ; for it
:tums the bodies into tbe:true tiDcture, to tinge the.said other
imperfect also _
it is the water· which wbitenetb,. aa it is
. . . ·¥ • • •
o1git1zed by Coogle
Secret;Book of .A.rtepllius. I 137
whiteness itself, which quickcneth, as.it is a soul; and therefore,
as the philosopher saith, qu-ickly enterethinto its body.
14. For.iti.s a.living W!l.ter which comes to moisten tlie earth,that
it mar .spring.out, and in its due season bring forth much fruit;
for al things springing from the earth, are educed through dew
pr moisture. The therefore springeth not forth without
moisture-: It is thfl water -procecdiRg from 'May
.aew, that .cleanseth body; and .like -rain it penetrates them,
and makes one bodylof two bodies. This aqua vitre, or water
of life, bejpg.rightly .urdered and disposed with the body, it
whitens it,.and converts or changes it into its white colour. For
.this water.i;s a white vapour, and therefore the body is whitened
with It behoves you therefore to whiten the body, and open
its infoldings: for between these two, that is, between the body
,pnd the water, there is a desire and friendship, like as ·between
·the male and female, because of.the _pl'opi.nquity and liJtencss Qf
-their natures.
15. Now our sQCqnd.and·lhting water is calletl -azoth, the
washing..the viz. the body compounded of sol and
luna by ourfu.st it is Also called the soul of the dissolved
bodies, -which souls we have ev.en now tied together, for the use
of the wise philosopher. How ·precious then, and liow _
great a
.thing is this water! -
For without.it the work could be
done or perfected: ·it js also called.the vas naturte, tile belly, the
.womb, the receptacle of the tincture, the earth, the nurse. It .
is the royal fountain in wJ1ich the king and queen bathe them-
selves; and the mother muat be put.into and sealed up within the
the belly of her infa14t; and that is sol himself, who _
proceeded
from her, and whom she brought.forth·; and therefore,they ha,ve
·1oved one another as mother p.nd son, and ace conjoined toge-
ther, because they come fr9ffione and the same root, ll'l'ld are of
the same substance and nat11re. And hecau.se this<
water -1s the
water ofthe life, it:cnuses the-dead body to vegetate,
increase,.and spripg fort,h, and -to rise from death life, by
being dissolved first, then sublimed. And in doing this, the
body is converted into a spirit, and the spirit, afterwards, into a
body; and thcp is made,the amity, the peace, -the concord, and
the union of the contraries, to wit, between the body and the
spirit, whicfl Qr .mutually change their natures
which they receive, and comm11nicate one to another through
their most minute parts. So that that which is hot, is xnixed
with that which is cold, the dry with the moist, and the hard
with the soft ; by which means there is a mixture made of con-
irary natures, viz. of cold with hot, and moist with dry, even a
most admiraqle unity between enel\)ies.
' 16. Our dissolution then of bodies, which is made such .in
;this first water, is nothing else, but a .destroying or overcoming
the moist with the for the moist is coagulated the
. R
o1git1zed by Coogle
188 .Alcllemrcal 11
reaU.ses. ·
dry. .Forthe moisture·is ·c;ontained under, terminated with,
coagulated in the dry body, to wit, in that which is earthv. L<.'t
therefore the hard and the dry bodies be put into our fir;t water
in a vessel, which close well, and·there let I hem abide till they
be dissolved, and ascend to the top ; then may they be called n.
new body, the white gold made by art, the white stone, the
white sulphur, not inflammable, the pai:adisical stone, viz. the
stone transmuting imperfect· metals, into wllite silver. Then
have ·we also the body, soul, and spirit altogether; of which
spirit and soul it is said, that they cannot he extracted from the
perfect bodies, but by the help or conjunction of cur dissolving
water. Because it is certain, thut the things fixed cannot be
lifted up, or made to ascend, but by the conjunction or help
of that which is volatile.
17. The spirit, therefore', by the help of the water and the
soul, is drawn forth frQm the bodies themselves, and the body
thereby is made spiritual ; for that at the same instant of time,
the spirit, with the soul of the bodies, ascend on high to the ·
supe.rior .part, is pE_!rfectio!'l of the st.one, and is
sublimatiOn. This subhmatJOn, srud Florentius Cathalanus, 11
made by things acid, spiritual, volatile, and which are in their
own nature sulphureous and viscous, which dissolve bodif:s, and
make theRl to ascend, and be changed into air and spirit. And
in this sublimation a certain·part of our said·first water ascends
with the bodies, joining itself with them, ascending and subliming
intoone neutral or complex substance, which contains the nature
of the two, viz. the nature of the two bodies, and of the water.
And therefore it is called the corporeal and spiritual compo..
situm, ccitjufle, cambar, ethelia, zandarith, duenech,: the good;
but properly it is called the permanent or fixed Wl!ter
l>ecause it flies not in the fire. · But it perpetually adheres to the
commixed or compound' bodies, that is, the sol and luna; and
communicates to them the living: tinctui·e; incombustible and
most fixed, much more noble and precious than the former
·which those bodies Because from henceforth this tincture
runs like oil, running and penetrating the bodies, and
giving to them its wonderful fixity; and ·this tincture is the
spirit, and the spirit'is the soul, and the soul is the body. For
in this operation the body is made a spirit, of a most subtile
nature ; and SO'ain, the spirit is corporified changed into the
nature of the body, with the bodies, whereby our stone cpnsists
of a body, a so1,1l, and a spirit. ·. · , ·
· 18. 0 God, how through nature dost tlwu change a body into a
spirit ! which could not be done, if the spirit_were not incorpo-
rated with.the bodies, and the bodies made volatile with the spirit
and ttfterwards permanent or fixed. For this cause sake, they
·have tmssed over into one another, and by the influence of wisdom·
are converted the one into the other. 0 wisdom ! how thou
o1git1zed by Coogle
I
Stcret Book of Artephiua. 139
mnkest the most fixed gold to be volatile and fugitive, yea, though
hy nature it is the most fixed of all things in the world !.. It is
therefore to dissolve and liquifY these bodies our
water, and to make them a permanent or fixed water, a
golden water, leaving in the bottom the gross, earthy, superflu-
ous and dry matter. And in subliming, making thm and
pure, the tire ought to be gentle; but if in this sublimation with
a soft fire, .the bodies be not purified, and the gross or earthy
part& thereof, (note this well,) .be not separated from the impu-
rities of the .dead, you shall not he able to perfect the work. For
thou needest nothing but that thin and subtile part ot' the dissolved
,bodies, which OUl' .water will give thee, if thou proceedest with
a slow or gentle fire, by separating the things from
the homogene. .
19. This compositum then has its mundification or ·
by our moist fire, which, as Azinabam saith, by dissolving and
iiubliming that which is pure and white, it casts forth or rejects ·
.its frecis or filth, like a voll!ntary vomit. For in ·such .a disso-
lution and natural sublimation or lifting uj>, there is a loosening
,or untyiQg of.the elements, and a cleansing and of
.the ,pure, from the impure. So that the pure and white substance
ascends upwards, and the impure and earthy remains fixed in
the bottoll1 of the water and the vessel. This must be taken
away and removed, because it is of no value, taking only the
_
middle :white..substance, flowing, and melted or dissolved, re-
jecting the freculent earth, which remains below in the bottom.
These freces were separated partly by the and are the
;<lr()l;s and ta-ra damnata, which is of no value, nor can do any
.such service as the clear, white, pure and clean which 1111
and only to be taken and made use of. · · .
20. And against this capharean rock, the ship and knowledge,;
or art of the young philosopher is often, as it happened .also to
.me sometime, dashed together in pieces, or destroyed,
the philosophers for the most part speak by the contraries. Tl1at.
is to say, nothing must be removed or taken away, exe<.ept
•he moisture, which is the blackness; notwithstand.ing
speak and.write only to the unwary, without a master,
indefatigable reading, or humble to Al:mighty,
would ravish away tne golden fleece. It is therefore to _
be ob-
eerved, that this separation, division, and-sublimation, is, withput
doubtJ the key of the whole work. · . . ·
21. Aiter .the putrefaction then and dissolution of these bodies,
bodies also ascend to tl1e top,-even to the sm:face of the dis-
water, in a whiteness of colour, ·which whiteness is life.
And in this whitenesa the antimonial -and mercurial soul, is by a
natural compact infused into, and joined with the spirits of sol
J!,nd luna, separate the thin fioin the thick, and the p!Jre
f!om. t'be impur.e. TJtac is, by lifting up by little and little £ho
o1git1zed by Coogle
•
.Siin ·arid pure part of the body, fi·om the free('! and fmporit!,
tintil all the pure parts are sepu.ratcd and ascended. And in this
work is our natural. and philosophical sublimation compleated.-
Now in this whiteness i& the soul infused into the body, ·to wit,
: the mineral virtue, which is more subtile than fire, being.indeed
the true quintessence and life,.· which desite& 011 hungers to be
born asain, and to pllt off the defilements and be spoiled of it•
. gtoss and earthly frece&, which it has taken fJ;oni its mensttuott!i
womb, and corrupt pla£e of its or-iginal. And in this iS' our
· philosophical suLliutati"n, Bot in· the impure,- c61Ttlpt, vulgar
mercury, which has no properties·or ..,Uities like to those, with
which our mercury,. drawn from its vitriolic caverns, is adorned.
But let us return to our sublimation.· ·
22. It is most certain therefore in this art, that this soul ex-
tracted from the bodies, cannot be made to ascend, but by
adding to it a volatile matter, which is of its own kind. By
\vhich die bodies will be made volatile and spiritual, lifting thelll-
selves up, subtilizing and subliming llhemselves, eontrary to
. tl1eir own proper nature, which is CorpOFeal,•heavy, and ponder-
OUS. And by this means they are unbodied, or made no bodies,
to wit, inrorporeal,. mad a quintessence of 'he nature of a
·spirit, which is called avia kermrlis, and .mercurius ertractus.
drawn from a red subject 01' matter. And so the terrene or
earthy parts ·remain below, or Father the parts of the
bodies, which can by no or. ingenwty of man be brought
Co a perfect dissolution.
23. And this white vapor, thia white· gold, to wit, this qttin-
iessence, is called also the compound magnesia, whi¢h Hke man
_
docs or like man is composed of a body, soul, and spirir.
'Now tlw body is the fixed solar earth, exceeding the most subtile
matter, which by the help of our divine water is with difficulty
lifted up or separated. The soul is the tincture of sol and luna,
proceeding from the conjunction, or comnmnicating of these
two; to wit, the bodies of sol aud luna, and our wak!F. And
the spirit is the mineral power, or virtue of the· bodies, and of
the water which carries the -soul or white tineture in or upon
the bodies, and. also out of $he bCiKlies, like as the tineture'
or col'ours in dyeing cloth are by the water put upon, and
diffused in and tl1rough . the doth. And $his mercurial
1pirit is the chain or baD.d of the solu soul ; and the solar
body ; is that body which coatains the spirit and soul, hsv-
the power of fixing in itself, .being joined with luna. · The
aptrit theretore penetr11tes, the. bpdy fixes, and the soul joina
together, tinges and whitens. From these three united together,
is our stone made; to wit, of sol, luna, {U)d mercury.
. 24. Therefore with this our golden water, a natural· substance-
is extracted, exceeding all natural substances; and so,.except the
•owes be broken and desu-oyed) imbibed,. made .subtile. arid hct
. . .
o1git1zed by Coogle
Secret Bo.ok o.J Arfephius. 141
I
ihrifti1y and diligently man&Red, till they are abstracted &oni, dr
lose their grossness or solia substance, and be ·changed into a
thin and subtile spirit, all our labour wiH be in vain. And unless
.the bodies be made no bodies, or incorporeal, that ·is, be con-
.Yerted into the philosophers mercury, there is no rule of
art yet found out to work by. The reason is, because
it is impossible to draw out of the bodies all that most thin
and subtile soul, which aas. in itaelfthe tincture, except it be first
.iesolved in our water. then the bodies in this our got-
den water, and boil .them till all the tincture is brought forth by
in a white colour, and a white oil; and wnen J:OU see
.dl1s whiteness upon the water, then know that the bodies are
melted, liquified, or dissolved. Continue then this boiling, till the
.dark, black, anti eloud is brought forth, w.hich they havv
(Onceived.
25. Put therefore the perfect bodies of metals; to wit, sol and
luna, inw our water in a VC!!sel, hermetically sealed, upon a
gentle fire, and digest continually, till arc perfectly resolved
into a most precious oil. Saith Adfar, d1gest with a gentle fire,
as it were for the hatching of ehickens; so long, till the bodies are
.dissolved, and their perfectly conjoined tincture is extracted,
mark this well. But it ie not extracted all at <>nee, hut it. i»
drawn out by little aDd little, day by day, and hour by hour
.till after a long .time the solution thereof· is compleated, and
that which is dissolved, always swims a top. Alld while thia
.dissolution is in hand, let the fire be gentle and till the
.bodies are dissolved into a viscous and· most subtile water, and
_the whole tinc:ture be educed, iA eoloar first black, whieh is.the
.aign of a tr,ue.dissolutio:n.
- Then continue the digestion, till it becomes a white fi.."ted
water ; for being digested in balneo, it will afterwards become
. and in the end become like to common argent vive, ascend-
_
ing by the spirit above the first water. When therefOre you see
bo<Jies dissolved in the first viscous water, tben know, that they
'are t_urned into .a and that the soul is separated from the
dead body, by sublimation, brought into the order of spirits.
Whence both of them; with a part of our water, are made spi---
rits flying up into the air; and lhere"
the compounded body, made-
ofthe male and female, viz. ofsol and lun11, and of that most subtile
nature, cleansed by sublimation, taketh life, and is made spiri-
tual by its own humidity. That is by its own ; like as a
man is sustained the air;. whereby frem thenceforth it is mu!-
tiplied, and increases in its own kind, as do ali 6ther things.-
Jn such an ascension.·therefore,. and philosophical
all are joyned one with another,. and the Rew body subtilized,
made living by the spirit, miraculously liveth or s.rrings like:'
• vegetable. . ·
21. Wherefore,_unless the bodies be attenuated, or made thin,.
by the fire an<l water, till they ascend in ll sririt, and are made.
o1git1zed by Coogle
142 .Alchemical Treatlses.
or do become like water and vapour, or mercury, you Yabont.'
wholly in vain. But when they arise or ascand, they are born or
brought forth in the air or spirit, und in the same they are
changed, and made life with life, so as they can never be sepa-
. rated, but are as wat\r mixed with water. And therefore·it i!»
wisely said, th'at .the stone is born of the spirit, :because it is-
,altogether spiritual. For the vulture himselfflying without wings
cries upon the top of the ·mountain, saying, I am the white,.
brought forth from the.black, and the.red, broughtforth from the
.white, the citrine son of the red; I speak the truth, and lye
.OOL .
28. It .sufficeth ihee then to pnt the bodies in the vessel, and
.into the water once for all, nnd to close the vessel well, until a
true separation be made. '_l'his the .ohl;t:ure artist .calls conjunc-
tion, ·sublimation, assation, extraction, putrefaction, ligation,
deftllonsation, generation, &c. ' ·
29. Now that the whole magistery may be.petfected, work, as in
the generation of man, and of every vegetable; put the seed
once into the womQ, shut it up well. Thus you may see,
.that you r
need not many and that this our work requires
no great charges, for that ru;tbere is but one stone, there is but
.cne one v.essel, one order of working, and one suc-
.cessive disposition to the wbite and the red. And although we-
•ny in many places, take this, and take that ; yet we under-
,stand, that it llS ,to take b!lt one thing, and put if once
.into the V@sel, ,uritil the wo11k be pe.rfected. But these things
are so set down by the obscure to deceive the un-
wary, as we have befo.-e spoken; for is not this ars
or a secret wid a hidden art ? Is it not an nrt'full of secrets ? and
believest thou 0 fool that we plainly teach this secret of secrets,
our words according to their litm·al signification? Truly, '1
.tell thee, that as for I am no ways self-seeking or envious as
.8thers are ; but he that takes the words of the other philoso-
to their common signification; ?e even
havmg .lost Anadnes clue of thread, wanders m the midst Of
the labyrinth, multiplies errors, and.casts away his money for
nought.
80. And I, Artephios, after I became an Adept, and
attained to the true and complete wisdom, by studying the books
the most(a,ithful Hermes, the speaker of truth, was sometimes
<lhscurc ·also, as the others were. But when I had tor the space
cf a .thou•n!l years, Qr abouts, which are now passed over
xuy head, the time ,I was born to this .day, through the
alone.goodness of God Almighty, by the use of this wonderful
quintes&ence. When I say for,so very long a time, I found no
that had found out or obtained this llermet!c secret, because
of the obscurity of the philosophers words. Being moved with
mind, and the integrity of a good man, I havca-
o1git1zed by Coogle
Secret Rook of Artephius. 143
termined in these latter days of my Jife, to declare all things
trulv aml sincerely, that you may not want any thing for die
perfecting of this stone of the philosophers. Excepting one
certain thing, which is not lawful for me to discover to any.
because it is either revealed or made known, by God himself, or
taught by some master, which notwithstanding he thnt can bend
himself to the search of, by tbe help of a little experience, may
easily learn in this book.
81. In this book I have therefore written the naked truth•
tl10ugh clothed or disguised with a few colours; yet so that every
good and wise man may happily gather those desirable apples of
t.he Hesperides from this out philosophers tree. Wherefore
praises. be given to the most high God, who has poured into
our soul of his·goodness; and through a good old age, even an
almost infinite number of years, has truly filled our heart with
his love, in which, mcthinks, I embrace, cherish, and truly
Jove all mankind together. l3ut to return to our busir.ess.-
Truly onr work is perfectly performed; for that which the heat
of the sim is an hundred years in doing, for the generation
of one metal iri the bowels of the earth'; our· secret fire, that
is, our fiery and sulphureous water, which is caUed Balneum
doth, as I have often seen iri a very short time.
·82. Now this operation or work is a thing of no great labour
to him that know8 and understands it ; nor IS the matter so dear,
considering how small a quantity does suffice, that it may cause
any man to withdraw his hand from it. It is, indeed, a work so
short 11nd etisy, that it rriay well be ·called a womans work and
the play of children. Go to then, my son, put up thy supplica·
tions to God. Almighty ; be diligent .in· the bookS of
the learned in this science; for one book openeth another; think
and meditate of these things profoundly ; and avoid aU things
which vanish in, or will not endure the fire, because from those
adustiblc, perishing or consuming things, you can never attain
to the perfect matter, which is only found in the digesting of
your water, extracted from sol and luna. For by this water,
colour, and ponderosity or infinitely to the
matter; !!nd this "'ater is a whtte vapour, which like a soul,.
fiows through the perfect bodies, taking wholly from them their
blackness, and impurities, uniting the two bodies in one, and
increasi.ng their water. :Nor is there any other thing than
azoth, to wit, this our water, which can take from the perfect
bodies of sol and luna, their natural colour, making the red body
white, according to the disposition thereof.
38. Now let us speak of the fire. · Our (ire then is mineral;
equal, continuous; it fumes not, unless it be too much stirred
participates ofsulphur, and is taken from other things than from
the matter ; it overturns all things, dissolves, congeals, and cal-
and is ·to be found ·out by art, or aft.er an manner.
o1git1zed by Coogle
I H.· Alchemical Treatises.
It ·i;; a compendious thing, got without rost or .cl1arge, or at least
without any great purchase; it ii humid, vaporous,
altering, penetrating, subtile, spirituous, not violent, incomb.us•
tible, circunlspective, CO!)tinent, and one only thing. It is alsB
a fountain of living which circumvolveth and contains the
place in which the king and queen bathe themselves; through
the whole work this moist fire is sufficient; in the
mic!tlle, and end, because in it, the whole art does consist. Tlua
!s the natural fire, which is yet again11t nature, not natural, and
'"·hicb burns not; and lastly, this fire i.s hot, <:old, dry, moist ;
.meditate on these things, and .proceed directly, without .:my
thing of a foreign nature. If you understand not these .fires.
give ear to what I have yet to say, never as yet written .in any
book, but drawn from the more .abstruse .occult riddles oi
the ancients. · · · · · ·
34. We have properly three fires, ,without which this our
art cannot be perfected ; and ·whosoever works without them,
takes a great deal of 4il?our .in vain. firl\t tire is that of
the lamp, which is humid, vaporous, spiritous, and
found out by This lamp fire ought to be proportioned tQ
the enclosure; wherein yo\1 ,must use great .which
none can attain to, but l!e t\1at ,can to the search thereo£
For if this fire of the lam,P be not measured, and duly propor-
tioned or fitted to the it will be, tha,t either for ,want of
beat you will not see the expected signs, in their times,
whereby wiH losej•our hopes and expectation by a .too long
delay-:· or else, 'by reason of too much heat, you will burn the
tlot·es auri, gdlden flowers, and f09lishly your lost
. . . . -
expence. ·
85. The second fire is ignis.c.inerum, an ash ·heat. io .which the
hermetically sealed is reduded, or buried.: or rather, it ia
that most sweet and gentle heat, which proceeding fmm the tern-:- .
perate vapours of the lamp, does equally surround your vessel.-
This fire is not violent or forcing, except it be t90 much excited
or stirred np ; it_ is a fire digestive, .alterative, and taken from
enother body than the matter; but one only, moist also,
and not natural. ·
86. 'The third fire, is the natural fire of .water, 'which is also
called the ·fire against nature, because it is w.ater.; yet ne-ver.;
theless, it makes a mere spirit of gold, which common fire is not
able to do. This fire is mineral, equal, and of sul-
phur; it overturns or destroys, conge.als, dissqlves, and calcines;
it is penetrating, subtil, incombustible and burning, and ia
the fountain of living water, wherein the king _
and queen bathe .
themselveS, whose help we stand in need of, through the whole
work, through the beginning, middle and end. But the other
two above mentioned, we have not always occasion·for, but only
.at sometimes. In reading therefore the books of
o1git1zed by Coogle
Srcret Book of Artephtu11 ]4.5
conjoin these three fires· in your judgment, and 'without doubt,
-you will ttnderstsnd whatever they have Wrote of them. -
S7._Now ns to the colours, that wl1ich dOe& not make black
cannot make because is the of white-
nesR, and a s1gn of putrefaction and alteration; and that the
body is now penetrated and mortified. From the put_refad.ion
therefore in this water, 'there first appears blackness, like onto
broth wherein some bloody thing is boiled. Secondly, the black
earth by a continual digestion is whitened, because the soul of
the· t\vo bodie1f·swims above upon the water, like white 'cream ;
· and in this only whiteness, all the spirits are so united, that they
-can never flie one from another. And therefore the Jatten m111t
be whitened, and its leaves .unfolded, i. e. its body broken or
opened, lest we labour in vain; tor .;this whiteness is the perfect
&tone for the white·work, and a body enobled in order to that
even the _tincture of a most exuberant and
brtghtnes!!, whJCh never departs from the bocfy It 11 onceJOIDed
with. Therefore·you must nete here, that· the spirits·are not
-fixed, but in the white colour, which is more noble than the
other eolours, and·is more vehemently to be desired, for that it is
as it were the-
complement or perfection of·the whole work. .
88. For our earth putrifies and becomes black,.then it is
ned in lifting up or separatiOn ; afterwards beiDg dried. its black..
ness goes away · from it, and then it is whitened, and the..
feminine dominion of the darkness and humidity perisheth : t.1un
· also the white vapor penetrates through the neW body, a:.1d the
· spirits are bouoo up or fixed in the dryness. And thr..t which is
. col'I'Dpting, deformed, and black through the vanishes
· away; so the new body rises again clear, ·white, and it-a·
mortal, obtaining the victory over.all its ene..inies. And as heat
w<>rking that is.moist, or generates black-
ness, wbrch 1S the pr1me or ; so always by decoction,
. and workmg that is dry, begets
wh1teness, whJCh 1s the second colour ; and then working upon
that which is purely and dry, it produceth citrinity and
redne£16,- thus much for · We must know therefore, that
the thing whtch has its head red and white, but its feet white and
aft:OI'Wards red ; &ncl its eyes befoi'ehand black, that this thing,
I say, is the only matter of our magistery. ·
89. Dissolve then· sol and luna in our dissolving water, which
· is familiar and friendly, and the next in nature unto them ; and._
is also sweet and pleasant to them, and as it were a womb, a
mother, an original, the beginning and the end of their life.-
And that is the very reason why they are meliorated or amended
in this W!\ter, because like nature rejoiceth in like nature, and
like nature retains like nature, being joined the one to the other,
in a by which they are.made one nature,_ one new-
body, ra11ed agam from the dead, and Immortal. Thus tt beJlovea
you to join consanguiDitf, or sameueu of kil;!.d, .Py wb,icb these
. . . .
o;9,11zed by Google
)46 Aichemical 1!retdist's.
-
will meet and follow one another, pttrify themeel•e&-,
generate, artd make one mrotber rt;oice ; felr tblll like nature,
·Dow is by like nature, even that·whlcli is aearett,- and
most tFiencDy ta it.-
40. Our water then is tire most beautiful, lovely, at1d clear
prepared only for the king, aBd wllQm it knows
'flerj welt, .ard·they it. For it .a&tractB them to itSelf, aPd they
therein fo? two or' tlbt'ee to wit, two or three
,w 'WIIl!lt' thereWith,. 1rhereby they are ma.le yourlg
•gain ami beaatiful. And because sol ad ldna lla'le their origi-
J1al:fttmi this water tlieitmother; it is neces.ry therefore thnt
Chey eJJter intO il.again, to wit, into their meflheii womb, t.b;.t
.they may be ::!J.ena-ate or hom again; and made mo:re laealtby,
more n(JI*, fmore · If tlwerefore ·these · clio not die,
·and.be·C(JD'fel'ted into wateri they remain er aa they
and with'cM: fruit ; but if they di_
e, and are reaolved .in oar
-'WAter, brinrJr.forth fruit, an .Olcl; and froD;l that
. place m wliiclt they aetmed to per11h; fNm ·t.bedce ahNI
•they sppelr to' be tLat which th-1 were not 'fje{Ofe,··
41•.Let therei>re tbe Spirit oi Ollr ming wa&et' be, with all
irdre m\tl industry; fix«! with $0l ad luna ; for that they beiug
.eonverted mto tlte uatUre ofwater become dead,.and appear like
! fd the dead; R-om whence afterwards, being revived, they en-
. etellse utJd 11Jultiply, even as do a» sorts of
· It strificet then to disp.! the matter sufficiemlj widlout., becaillle
·lkat within; it suffieiently dispose; itself.for the perfection Qf its
oW.n work. F9r. it has in itself a certain and inlierent motioP,
. .-eordin_g to the true way and method, and a much better order
than it JS pos&\>19 tor any man k> invent or think of. · Fo1 &llis
. -tau8e it itt; diRt yo• need only to prepare tbe .JUtteJ'; natwe
·henelf alone will perfect it; aad it the be net hiildred by some
contrary she will her own certain motion,
Jteithm· conceiviDg or generating, nor in b:ribgihg forth.
' Wherefore, .tier the of tbe .matter, beware
:2' lest by too beat OJ: fire, yoa.idame the be.th,
, e it too bot: take heed, leQ the spirit should exh8le,
. Jest.it lmna operatw, to wit, lett iA the work, aad
· ·indures- many as vexation, apd
diicontenL F:rom theie ·which have been &pQken, this
uiom ia manifest, to wit, that he qn .never .know the ne'*'"
course of nature in the or generatmg. metals, who
..ignorant of the way ofdettroying; theoi. · Y DJ.IIit
. JOIJl _them together that of 01" kindred ;
. »t· li]f.e·11.11tl&l'et do find out. allQ Jotll: w¢h Uteu- n.Uurer. llltd
by putrifying llhelnsel-.es tog$her,·.and mixed together and. JMr.o
tify themselves. It is needful to ·know tb.ia co:rruptinn
and generation, ·and how the do embrace
w iD & akn! gr aea&lo .tird; .how..li}te
· ' :;
o1git1zed by Coogle
Secret Book qf .Artephiu1. 147·:,.'
nature rejoiceth with like nature; how they retain one another,
and a.re· converted j,wp • sqbsisteocy. . · < .:..
48. This ifyou will make it red, you must . :
amtin.uall_y it iu a Jhy ti1·e,.·till it i.s rubified, or h«:omes .
red as blOod, which is theia nodJing water, .fire, ,and .true ,
tincture. A.nd ao by .a cpntinwll dry ,fire, the whiteness ia ·
changed, pertecte,d, .
made eitrine, and etill dig.ested :till .
it comes to a red and nxed colour. And by
)IOW·much .JDPre this red is in this gentle heat by so,
.Jilwrh the it ill in colQUr, and made a trJie .
tQI'e of perfeCt redQess. Wherefore witb a dry are, and a dxy·
calcination, any moisture, you must decoe,t this :
situm, till it be inTestcd with a mQit perfect red colour,.aod
it elixir. ' . . ·
4+. N?W" if afterwards yoW: yoa
snust agam resolve that r.ed, IW'V w frem dissobmg wattU", an(l
then by decoctions first whiten, and tl1en rubi.tjr it again, by the·
degrees of'fire, tbe tir.st method pf operating in this ·
work.. coagublte, and reiterate the .cl<¥ing up, the
opening and . ,in _quality at y.our own,
pleasure; 'For ·by cOrruption generation, there is UJ,,.. ·.
'troduced a oe\v ·TbU8 caJ.l'»-e·never find an end, if w.
'do wol'k bj reiterating ··tile'·same and qver ·
sgaiu, viz. by solution and by .
ing by wh,ich cangeal, aa we hav:e for..- ·
merly tiJ the.beginnmg of the worll:. Thus also Js •he · ·
virtue increased aiJU botlj iri quantity and: ·
.tpudity ; So thai; if afier the th:st oonrie'¢" ynu gbtain .'
an hundred i01d;' by a ooune, yoi.t have 'a thoueand
feJd ; and by a third, told ii\qeue. ' ·by·pqr,- .
B1lin$ your 'Work, your projeetioo .will coll)e to -iu:Dnity;tingiDg ·
truly and perfeCtly, '40d the greatest quantity holY :mueh:
soever. Thus b.J a thing of WI ea&y ·or you ·
both colour, 8nd · .· · .•·· ·· · .
Our then and azoth, for you,
:
,reJterate,· dissolve,_ cpngeal, and contmuc .this . coUn;e, acc.onl-
ing ._ y'aq. multiplying ·it as y9U dlink gopd, until ·
your medieine is made msible 81 wax, and_has the quao,. .
tity ruid ·Roodneu or fixity and colour you ·. This then ia
the oompTeatiRg of abe.whole 'f,ork of out (observe
it well) you the perfuet lxKly, and.put lt.mtD.our wat-er·
a glasa iestca or boGY: "!ell cl()led with tltt:·air.get
m, or the molosed hUJilidity get out. . it iJ:l digestwn m a
"Rentle'heat, aa· it were of a balneum,. or ·tha temperate :
lione duDJ1 and assiduously the ·qpera.tion .or .
upon the tire, till the decOc:tia,ri and·digestion' is perfect. And
keep it in this gfa geptJe"
heU, until,it.be putrifi.ed a.nd
resolved into blackness, and be drawn up 'and subliiried by lhe
'aod is thereby Cleansed frOm all blacknesa and impurity,
. . . . .
o;g,llzed by Coogle
148 .Alchemical Trealists.
that it may be white and subtile. Until it to the ultimate .
, or highest.p!lrity of .and the utmost volatility;
be made wh1te both w1thm and w•thout: fur the vulture flymg m
the air without wings, crit>S out, that it might get up upon the·.
mountain, that ir. upon the waters upon which the tpi1·itus albus,
or spirit of whiteness is born. Cootinue still a fitting fire, and •
that spirit, which is the subtile being of the body, and of the
mercury will ascend upon the top of the water, ;which quintes--
1!enceis more white than the driven snow... Continue yet still, and
toward the end, cncreasc the fire, tiU· the whole spiritual
aistence ascend to the top. And know well, that whatsoever is
clear, pure, and spiritual, in air to the top of the WS:tet:·
in the substance of a white vapor, which the philosophers call
their virgins milk. · · · · ·
46. It ought as one of the Sybills said, ·
the son of the v1rgm be ·exalted from the earth, and thllt the
white quintessence after its -rising out of the dead earth, be raised ·
up towards heaven; the gros$ and thick remaining in the bottom
of the vessel and of the water. the ·vessel - being ,
cooled, yon will find in the bottom the black fre<;es1 searched and
burnt, which separate from the spirit and. quintessence of white-
ness, and cast them "
away.. Then will' the vive fall
from <>ur air or spirit,'up:on the new earth, which is'
vive inblimed by the air or spirit, whereo£. is 4\
water, 'pure and white. · This·water is the t111b tind:ure separated .
from itfl black freees, our brass or latten is prepared .
our ·water, purified, and ·brought to a white colour. Which.
white colour is not but by decoctio-!1, 4tlld·coagulatio.l\
ofthe water: decoct therefore continually, w:ash away the black.:.
neSB from the latten, not with your ·hapds_, but tbe··stone, or
the fire, or .our second· mercurial water, which is the true
tincture. · This ·separation -pf the pure from impu•·e is not
· done w_ith hands ; but nature herself does it, and brings it to .
#ection by·a circular operation. . ' . ·. · · · · :
· +7.- 'It appears then, that this ·composition is not a work of:
the hands, but·a change.of.the natllr:es; becaul!le nature dissolves
itself, sublimes and lifts up, and white; ·
bemg separate from the And ·such a subhtnatiOn, the
more subtiie; pure, and ··essential partll are conjoined;· for that .
with the fiery na,ure or property lifts up the subtile P!lrts,'it sepa- •
i'ates always the more pare, leaving the grosser ·at the bottom.-
Whercfore your fire ought to be a acontinual vapour,
with which 'you sublime, that the matter may be tilled·with
spirit -from · the air, and live. ·' For all·things take.life ;
from the ·of the air; and so also ·our magistery
receives in the vapotir · or spirit, by ·the sublimation •of the·
water.
48. Our brass or Iaten then, is to. be made ascend.by the
grees of fu·e, but of its own accord, freely, and without violence{
•
o1git1zed by Coogle
Secret Book if .Arteplliil8. 149
the bQdy tberef.ore be py the :fire and the,water broken, :
e>r dissolved, attenuated, until it as a spirit, or
climbs like argent vivc, or rather as the white' soul, separatc4
from tl1c body, aud by sublimatiop dilated or brought into
spirit, Iiothipg is or can be done. it on bigh.
it is born in the air or spirit, a11d is changed into spirit; and
becomes life with life, only spiritual and
And by such an operation is, that the body i!J made spirit,_
o,f a nature, and the flpirit is with the
and made with it i and by such a sublimation,
and4raisiug up, lfhple; 'bQtb qpdy and spirit are made
white. · · .
·. 49. This natural therefore is:
Qecessary, which peace between, or fixes, the body and
spirit, \vhich is impm.sible to be done otherwise, than in the ,
of these parts, it behoves you to sublime
Q<>th, that pure may asceJ)d, 11nd the imp"Hre and earthy may
or be left at bOttom, in the perplexity sea.
And for this it must be· decocted, that it may
be brought to a subtile property, and the body may assume, amf ·
the ;white soul, which it naturally
and sUffers not to be separated from it, beca'\lse it is like to it in
the of the first, pure, and simple nature. From
things it is necessary to a separation by decoction, till no
remains of of the .soul, which is not ascended.
exalted to the high'er part, whereby they will both be re-
to an ·of and ' a simple or pure
whiteness. . . ' . . . . .
. 50. ·\rulttire flying through the air, and the toad creep-
jpg UJ?Ori theground, the· of magistery. When
therefore gently and With much care, you separate the earth from·
tile water, thai from the fire, arid the tJ!in from the thick, then
that which is will separate itself froin the earth, and ascend
tp the upper pat1, as it were into 'heaven, and the impure wjll
qesce1id beneath; as tothe earth. And the more subtil part in
superior place, 'will take upon it nature of a spirit, and
that in die lower place, nature of an earthy body. .Where-
fore let the property, with the more suQtil parts of the body,
'QC by this operation, made·to ascend, leaving the freces bel1ind,
'Ybich is done in a· the soul is aided hy her
and fellow, and perfeCted by .it. My mother, said th•
qoc;ly, has ine, and by she herself is begotten: now
afifll' I have taken from her lief'flying, she, after an admirable
I!Ulfiiler becomes kind,' nourishing and cherishing the son whom
she has begotten, till ·he comes 'to be of a ripe or perfect age.
:s1. Hear now this secret: keep the body in our mercurial
till it ascends with the white soul, and the earthy part
to the bottom, which is called the residing earth. Then
see water to coagulate itllclt' with it.\i body, and be
o1git1zed by Coogle
150 ..I.Ichemical Treatise& -
the is true; because the body coagulates the
moisture into dryness, like as the rennet of a lamb or calf turns
n1ilk into cheese. In manner the..spirit penetrates the
body, and is perfectly commixed with it in its "mallest atoms,
and the body draws to itselfhis moisture, to wit, its white soul,
]ike as the loadstone draws '\ron, because of the nearness and
of *s nature; and theri .the one contains·the other. And·
thisis our sublimation and coagulation, which 'retainetb every
volatile thing, making it fixt for ever. ' ' '
· 52. This compositum then, is ndt a ,t;nechanical thing, or a
of the hands, but, 88 ' I ·a chinging of natures';
and wonded'ul conncxion of their cold with hot, 'and the moi&l
with the dry': the hot also is ltlixcd the cold, and the.dry
with the moist. By this hleans alSo is madetbe mixtion and con-
junction of body and spirit, which is called a oonversion of con-
trary natures; because by such a dii;S9lution and 'sublimation,
spirit is co.nve:.t<'d a body, and body into a ·sph:it· So thaJ
·.the natures be111g mmgled together, and reduced mto one, do
change ·one a.t;,other: and as the body conJOrifies the spirit, or
1:hanges it into ·.'!- body .
: so ri150 .docs .
the spirit copvert the body
into a. tingiiJg and white spirJt. ' . . . ' '. .
· 58. Wherefore, as the last' time I say, decoct th«r pody in our
\\bite water; viz. mercury, till it is dissolved. into blackness, and
b;r . a. continual decoct! )et it. be deprived the
blackness, and the body so W'>solvcd, wtll at length or nse
with a. white soul. And then the oric will .be mixC# w1th the
other, and so embrace one ano:t:her it not De'possible
any more to separate them,·but the spirit,.with a. real agreement, ·
will be wiH t_
he bOdy, and make one permanenf.or fixed
substance. Ahd thi-s is the solution of the body, and coagl.tlation
the lipirit whiph have one and the same operation. ·· Who
therefore · liow to conjoi!' the or direct'
'rcrk, to tmpregnate, to mortify, to putnty, generate, t<?
quicken the st}ccies1 to make white, to cleanse the vulture·from
ill> · and till he is purged by tile fire,· and
tinged, and purified from all his spots, be po·ssessor of a
treasure so great, that even kings themselves 'shall
54. Whe1·etore let our body remain in the water till it is' dis-:-
' soh-ed into subtile powder in bqtt<im the vessel and the
which is cnlled thc'Mnck ashes: "l"his is the corruption of
1Jw body which is called'bY philosophers or wise men, saltlrflus;
d's, jJlumlmm philosoph'tn'Um,'.
4'·pulvis discontinuatus, viz. saturn;
lattcn, or brass, the · lead· of the ·philosophers, the·disguised
powder. And in this putt·efaction a.hd resolution ·of the body;
t1tre<;: signs appear, ·yiz. 'a black color, a' discontinuity of parts;
nnd a stinking smell, not much unlike to the smell11f a. vault'
where dead bodies are buried. These ashes then arc those or
the philosophers have spoken so much, whiCh remaine<f
i.a the lower 9f the vessel, we ought to
o1git1zed by Coogle
Secret Book of ArtepTlius. 1&1
value or despise. In them is the royal diadem, and the black and
unclean argent vive, which ought to be cleansed from its black-
ness, by. a continual digestion in our till it be elevated
above in a whit.e colour, which is called the gander, and the bird
of Hermes. He therefore that maketh the red earth black, and
then renders it ·white, has obtained the magistery; so also he
who kills the living, and revives the dead. Therefore make the
black white, and the white black, and you perfect the work.-
55. And when you see the tnie whiteness- appear, which
shineth like a bright sword, or polished silver, know that in
that whiteness there is redness hidden. But then beware that
. you take not that whiteness out of the vessel, bu.t only digest it
to the end, that witn beat and dryness it niay assume a Citron
colour, al\d a most beautiful redness. Which when you see.
· lt'ith great fear and trembling, tender praises and thanksgiving
tothe most great and good God, who giyes wisdom and riches
to whom soever he pleaseS; and accarding to the wickedness of
a:person1 takes them away, and withdraws them for ever .in,
depressing him even to the bottom of hell. To him, I say,
itlost wise and Almighty God, be story to the ages ofages.-
.Amen.
o1git1zed by Coogle
·T!te anclent lVar of the Kni(l.Ttts ;
On, VICTORious 's-roNE•
.BY A GER,MAN ADEPT-1604• .
. A true philosopher writes thus : In the presence of God
Aln•i£hty, the Saviour nf my soul, do I tell you, lovers of this
excelfent from a sincere heaTt, and out of compassion for
those who have sought along time in vain, that our whole work
comes forth out of one thing, which is completed in its;elf, and
needs no more but to be dissolved .and re-coagulated ; and this :it
. .must do of itself, without all foreign things. . .
· As ice which is put over the fire a dry vessel, and by heat
turns into water: in the same manner it is with our stone, which
wants nothing but the help of the operation of the artist, and
of the natural fire. For of itself it cannot do it, although it
should lie or remain for ever in the earth, therefore it must be-
assisted ; yet not so, as to join foreign and contrary things with
it. But thus, as God gives us the com in the field, and we
must grind and bake it for to make bread thereof; in like man-
ner in this ; God has created for us this mineral, or ore, which
we take by itself, destroy the gross body, extract the interior
put away the sup.crfluity, and make out of the po!son,
u me\hcmc. ·
That you may understancl this tlte better, I will recite you a
fine dialogue and disputation which happened betwixt the stone
of the gold and mercury, by which those who
know a little, or,in some measure, how to deal with metals and
minerals, having sought a long time in vain, may easily arrive
to the true foundation. And it will be necessary, that une
lcarn,to know the a?d inte1·ior quality of each .th!ng in
the earth, and what tt 1:; radtcally capable of, or what It is ca-
pable of by the foundation of nature. Gold and mercury came
at a certain time to a stone with an armed hand, in the inten-
ticn to subdue it. And Gold began thus in a rude manner,
snving, ,
"'Goi.D.-You poisonous worm and dragon, why do you pre-
tend to be above me and my brother Mercury? Being I am
the most high, most noble, and most constant metal; and all
princes and lords, and likewise aU ordinary men, seek to .obtain
riches from, or to grow rich by working me and my bro-
o1git1zed by Coogle
'Jlhe :Victoriow S1one.
·1fter Mercury, -·whereas you are ·an. enemy· of all ' men _
and
.mt-tals, apd YWI koow, that .the physicians praise xne exceed:-
jngly to befar the health ofmen? · · .
To whillh our Stone answeretb..: wlty are yo1o1
not ®gry with God, and enquire, .$\'Jby lle .hath ngt.created in·
you, .what is. found in.me? . · · . ·. .
· G.Ln.-God has .me ..llhe -1\onor, tlwbcauty, .and
praise, wherefore, 1 by nnd because
the most constaqt ruetal, ·in tbe.fuc ll'DY OlJt ofthe fire. for
'that reason I am loyed by evecy- body.· Jlut:as fur you; you are
volatile, you turn unfaithful .and .dceeive.dre people.; for.onc
that you 6y .o,ut .of the hamls
-with yoll. ' c ·
. TKti:' .SroN;,:.-Dear Gold, it -is true, God has .giv6n -YO\l
llonor, 'beauty .and :w.b.ich you to be
..untG .God, not "e&pise others ; but as fur your
idisparaging me ,thus, you jt with untruth; .and I say,
you are not the_.gold, -of whidh the philosophers write, but . .
itiameis conee..tcd .witJlin .me;; for it is true that I am
ivol4tile ·ifLtae fine; se.veatheless y<Ul:koow, tl1at God and nature
ordered me timfi, and I lDl!lSt he so, tar my VQlatitity is 11)
the ·advantage of the.artist.; and if he, .the $aid a.rtist, can.duly .
·a,tract the same, yet. remain!' me tile . soul,
which is much more constant than you gold, and all your brothers
mwi companions; no fire _or water CQ consume or destroy her,
:a as the world lasts. Nor is ,it ,to he.imputed to me, thpt
l am -soilght for by those, Nf})Q caiUlot duly work with me, or
.prepare me, ancija.Ua ,often foreign &J;ld' contrary things with lllt\
8lt waters·,asd powders, ,w.hereby they destro;y my innate
"'lature and quality, Ol' property. Besides. this, there is not one
-in an hundred; that wor.ks me, .hut all of them seek .to
complete the art with you gold, and your brother mercury•
:wherein however they err1 imd work falsely, if; 'Deing apparent,
.that ail •
them briog nothiug to hut employ their
-gold U1 dp!troy or ruin themselves .a11d are reduced
't& p9:Verl.y; ..ie<b is to )>e imp1,1ted to yO!U .Sol, who kno'Y
·partJi.cularly 111ell, that no true gold or -llilver.cu be.D)ade witho\l.t
-me, f(w l have that power. tlu:n do you allo.,-
tllat almost .the whole .w.otld works w1,th f.<>Jl and your
brother Mercury ? If then you were iwleed · did
·clesire .to .deal -hODestly., you would apprise the·people, and
-warn them to avoid d&mages• :where.f<>re ·1 may say with
·truth, that yDu .are the .cheat. . ·
· Gow.-I w.iJl pr.ove it by · the philosophell that th.e
art may be by me .and my brother Mercury. FQ.r
l'ead Hermes, who says thus: The Sun Father, and the
Moon is its Mother ; now it is I who am ,COUlpat·ed .to the Sul).
Likewise Aristotle, Avicenna, Pliny, Serapi,on, HippocratCI>,
•I>i.Qscorides, Rhasis, ..Gel)cr;
T
o1git1zed by Coogle
\
154 .Alchtmictrl Tree.ttsu:
JJuUy, Albertus Magnus,· Arnold· of Viila-Non, Thomaic
Aquinas, and many others, 'a·hieh I omit for brevity's sake; all
these say plain and distinctly, that the tinctures, as well as the
:metals, must be cornposed of mlphur and mereury, and the
sulphur must be red, incombustible, and constant or fixed in
' the fire, and the merc.:ury must be bright or clam, and
purified, and they write without any winding: expressions or
naming,me openly by my name, and say, that
in me gold, is the well constant, or fixed inoombus.-
tible, red sulphur, which 1s also true-; and it is obvious t.o every
.body, that I am the most constant metal, and have the bei>t su}..
phur of all, ·which cannot be by fire, but is quite
fixed. Then Mercury assented with his discourses to whaUbe
Gold had advanced, and added : Ii were true, what hi' brother,
the Gold had. told, and might be 'proved by the•aforetlaid
masters.. And that likewise it were known commonly ·.and by
every.body, what great love and unity there were betwixt
two, above.all other metals·; which might easily be proved by
oniy this ocular demonstration, that when goldsmiths, or such
·like workmen-will gild things, they cannot do without gold
and b11;t take and put them and unite
them with very little pams. What then might not be done,
. with more pains . and diligence, with more work and longer
labO\Jr ? . · : _ ·
Our:SToNE.- Then our Stone replied merry humour;
truly, you bodr deserve to be·laughed at with· your proof&;
and I admire Ill0re especially of you Gold, who· boast·eo very
much of yourself to be good for a great many things, or Q&eir,
that you have Iio more sense than that COD)es to ; .-do YJOU''think
·that the old ;ehilO!Iophers fitwd· barely to
·the common literal or mterpreU!UOn, and'will be qodet..
stood in'that manner ? . · . _ " .
, The afo,.,esaid masters have writ rio· and
they ail agree conceming ·my virtue; there·have beitn some,
who have sought for my v.irtutlll in Other improper. thjng&,
·in various herbs, animals, urine, bai;; ·sperm;. ·end t.lie
like, who therefore have erred, and· perhaps have. writ erro-
neously too ; but the afores&id masters·ha\te good testimony,
that they·have possessed the art for. which their
:writingS may well be credited! . · . .
The SroNE•.;....;.;I do no ways ·dcmbt, .and it is :very true that
they posse.ssed the art indeed; some howe"er aeepted of
those have_ quoted. But whe_n they.name barely the
·nme of Gold and they do 1t to tM.art from .
.senseless dunces and the kn•wmg very. well,
that such only dwell11pon· names and writteR pl"'(leeSt!!t· Without
' meditating further upon the toundlltion of tbia.matter. But the
·prudent and diligent read with prudence, and ponder bow one
· with other ;·Ollt of !hich they get i
o,g,,zed by Coogle
The Vidm·io.us Stone•
.incling thus by and tronr the
the true matter; which no philosopher e•er named and
described openly by its true name• . . . . · . ....·,
Thia they when they say, we write
or according to the OOlllJBOJl eense or interpre- ·
tation, there we have mos,t concealed the art. Bu,t where we
by parables and senten<:es, there :we truly disClosed
the l¥'t· And wht>re they write of Gold .or Mex:culj, they how...
evet soon afrer. that, tell and expJain themselves, sayjQg, that ·
their gold ,is J)O qomm9n gpld, nor their mercury.compwn mer.. .
cury ; by reP..<;OQ, go}d, its cannot
altered or €
hanged, because it is grown already to a
feet {Deb¥ ; ·and one ita colpQr a
times, and work ever so artful with it, nevertheless it cannot
tinge any more,- than so as it ,has anp
in i$Sel£ Tberefor.e pftPosophers say, .jf you
perfe« things, ·you t.bere .will fh1d the perfectipn, .aS' yo\1 may
,reJd ill the Rosary. Raymund .LuUy, whom yourself
bav.e quoted ;as a say.s thus ,: what shall be
must not be nothing is cltanged _or altered in
it J'8,l:hu quite destroyed ,apd spoiled. · .
-GoLn.-1 how: say thus; but that be
understood of my brother Mercury, who as yet is imperiect ;
and whe11.we two mix ea<;h other, he then is made
by ; for he i$ of the femiqinc, and I of the xpasculin•
sex. Therefore the philQ89p.. that the _art is an.
· You see the saJl)e ·no chikl is!J>ro- ·
duced, ·but by Qfmale t41d .l\.n,d the
- &o .in· ,_nimals li,te. ·
Our. SroNE.-Thy brotQer M(;!rcury · is yet:
tbe.re{Qp, is he of -pbilosophenl ; if you
tw9 should mix tQgcther, . were kept in ·the fire
or. in d.ipti® fQr y,tflU'41, it ·
tbftt you two c.ould. re,ally ; for as soon
Mercury feels &re, fr91:n g9iug,on high; an<,I. su\l-
hnles Jtself top, you i.u .the 'bottom. Or if ypu
a.fe jo.\nf:d witlil; · ar-e --
ditttiUed,.. y.ou nothing .e)se a red
de W:l:.lit¥1 jf, . -by prpjecti9n .UpQI).
.i\ .n9t-; so muc.h of you .
i•!6Quud.'agaw;- .at at.the .b,egit1.n,\ng, your .
.Marc:ury from you ; tl;le iQ.
alchemy have experieaced for many years, and are
.o£:it t, their own nQ · llut l\S .fqr your· r!-!ferring
uftbe '*ncieut.J, wbo say, t\lat tbe art is wholly
aa all(l \hat no .$ild cun be but ,by
&nditer.llele, .whicb.yo.lil d4d· to at
;and;;,our QY jt.; .not thus neither,
by yo11, although t11e.Y, wrltmg thus very
'
o1git1zed by Coogle
A1i!fremical
tight and' fot .t telt yotf irf tintli, tlittt tfiis Iii'
eomcr-stone laili-by the at "·lriclt many thousands hm>et
ttumbled. Do you imagine it is with jast as with other..
things, ltfe ? You fare in as all these wh9< .
work uongly in tim art ;· whl'!n you read these thi"gs in the
philosophers- writiflgs, you- do not' metlintte ort the scepe, and
w-hether it agrees with what haS' bct>ri said befere,- er w:hat a
tsaid aftertoot; fur what the philbsophen hue described·of thi•
art with such parabmical wol'ds, ·is solely to- hie·applM fo me,·
and te no other thing in the world ; fOr ·it is I alone that do·
perform it, and witlioitt me M tme gold· or silver· can
made.
· GoLn.-Good God r are you not afmm·to rommit a· sin, and
have rio shame to· tell s1.11eh 1\' lre? And· are you so·
to apply or attribute solely nnto· you, what so many
:tnd learned men haYe writtx'll' ot:fhis art in se-reral age& r Y-ou;
.who are only it gross, pt)isonous,.- and ';lRchn llhing,· and yet
confess, that the art! is an ;' and· yeu affirm
this, that)- without you-, who at'e the llniversal, no true gold oi'
silver.can·be made;·. wherens iriS' known,. JDRny have sought
eo that tJrey ha':e found some othet
ways, wh1eh are particulars, _
from which they may a
good·pPOfit.· ., ..
Our &roN£.-M'y dear Go](l;. db not wonder at- what l ha••
'fold you, and do- not thus imputlently and impmdently give me
the lie, becaasc I am older than younelf.. A'B<l althotigli I liad.
been mistake'!\· in·tflis, you' ought k> spare my age·;: fur· are
not ignorant, dtat·age ought t6 be hbnotted. · · ·
But my .honor, I will prove by the mnsten; yon have
th-at I spoke fruth, wl!ose testim011ies -being quoted by
your own self, yot» havc no· reas()f}' to objcer agaiast. And first;
Hermes says thus : in tmtb, without certain, and most true;
is this, that that whieh under,. is like to that whieh is·abevej
·and t_
hat which i.a above, is like unto- that below.,. l;!ly tlUs JIOU may '
attain to the miracle& and wondel's of. one t-hing. · ·
Item. Aristotle writes thus ; Oh what a- strange' is this,
fur it has in itself all.what we starrd· is· need of; it kill!>. itself,
and getS !life again of itself;. it espooses it begets and-
ttrings forth or ofitself; 'it ·dissol'\ICS itself in its oW1l
·blood,· aad•re-eoagmater itself wiah the same ;. it 8'-"0Ws white'ancl
ted al'Kl we add nothing more to ,it,. nes do we cb_1&nge
·any thing, o!Ny sepurate the tenestreity and Ute grossne•
-from it. _ . . · ·
· · Item.- Proto,:the·phrlosoplter; &a:fl' thus o£ me : ·it is e'f'Cll but
.one nndthe same or only.thing in itself; it llas·a ·body, ·a soul, a
·sprrit, and the four elements, ovt>r which it h88 dominion ; ·and
·it not· .want to borrow any thing ofother bodies, fur it
>
eFings forth or gt>neratca itself only ·of itself, and·all: thin&'
'-ate ia·. it. .
o1git1zed by Coogle
·1&1
..,. .
. Marty more of these could hilt it
being unnecessary, I omit them for brevity's. ,
as. tOI- particulars, of which you make mention, it. is thus with
thelli: Some are come thus far, that they have able to
extract my tinging spirit, which theybavejoine4to qther metals,
and brought it about by many operations, that I have particip,aie"
to such metals aa had any affinity with me, a small matter of m1
virtue and power; which; however, but very few succeeded in;
likewise did they partly find it by chance. Apd by_J;eason that
they did not penetrate into the fPundation, whence tinctures
eome, therctore they could I)Ot proceed further, and .thus they
eould not reap very great advantages But if the
artist had looked .further about for my own proper wife,. and
joined or Wlited me with her, I then could have tinged a thou·
IIUld times m&Je ;- but they thus spoiled my nature or property
with foreign However, whatever they ,found, a}.
but a elnall matter. in comparison of my . true
and eJticacy, it pl'oceeded from me, and of no
thing. whatl;Qever. . . . . .
. GOLo.-What yo\& have said no suflicient proof; for although
Ute philosophers write a& one only thing, in which are contained
the four elements, ·and a body, a soul, and a spirit; they. thereby
irutinuate, or give to understand the tinctace; after the same hu
Peen completely finished ; it nw.st neverthelesa be composed in
she beginning of me Gold, and my brotller Mercury, we being
the male and female seed, ·as .·has been mentioned ; and
when we are brought to maturity . or completed . by di-
gestion, we then are that one thing, of which they
ll'rite. . .
·t Our SToNE....-lt is-no ways thus;; nnd I ha.ve told you before, ·
that it is not po$Sible for you two to perform it,. for you two are
DQt one body, but two bodies, and you are in the foundation of
nature, or radieally contrary to: each other. as for .me,.
I have . an imperfect body ; a pure, penetratiog, tinging, and.
constant Ol" fixed spirit ;_ and th.is, a clear, brigllt, .vo-·
latile, and moveable Mercury ;. and · am alone capable of w.hat
hotb ofyou together do.indeed boast ot;. but are not able to per...
form it ; for in me·is the philosopher's gold. and the metcwy
of the wise. Foi: thia-reason tile ancientt say :. our stone is not
wil.ible; nor our PlCJ'CJlfY to be had,. but out of the soft uncor•
rupted or proper and neither of the tw() can be
without the other ; wbeFefore I alone do yield the male .ari4
female seed, and am:wholly an homogenewn ; also am I called aa
hermaphrodite. . . . · . ·.
;. .Richardua too, the same of me, sayiDg :
the tint matter of our stone .is <:ailed Rebis, that is say. &
thing, which by nature has a double quality or.property con-
eealed in itself; and it is likewise called an hermaphrodite, that
a JD!ltter, which is .not easily be
o1git1zed.by Google
· .Alc1t.emical Tteatise8.
be a or f'emale ; by reason, thRt it inclines tO bOth
'{1terefo.-e·amedicine is made oat ofa thing, or.·one thing, which
is the·water·(>fthe body and· spirit. This has occasioned the
saying, that this medicine has by its enigma's deceived mauy
fools. · The art, however, requires but one thing, which is
known to every body ; msny wish for it, and yet it is bnt one
Only tbing, or matter; notbing·is to be compared to and yet
it is mean and cheap ; but for this it ought not to be
despised, for it makes and briugs tO..th Ql" completes admirable
. .
the philosopher Mys : You operators in thi& art,. you
to be of a fixed mind in your work, not · beginning and
sometimes with one thing, and sometimes with another ;
for tlie art consists not in multitude ofspecies's,.but in body and
·eoul. And for a certain truth, the medicine of our stone is ·one
thing, one vessel, one composition. For the whole masterpiece
ofart is begun with one and is ended with one thing;
although d.
IE
e philOBOphen, m order to hide the art, have pre-
tended to poil}tout many other ways, as (or instance : continual
or digestion, mixtion, sublimation, trituration, and
aiccation, and as many other names or allegories as the same
may be nam.ed withal. However, the solution of thebody is not
brQUght about, but in its own blood. Gebcr says tbua: in tll&
foqnqation odn the root ofthe nature of mercury, is
which pertCcts it, viz. the mercury, by cooking and dige.ting it
during a long time in the veins of the mines. · ·
Tbqs, iny dear Gold. with what has been 58id, yoa aN
8ufficientfy convinced, that it is only in me, and I alone can per-
form all, without assistance. of you and all your brothers f
nor do I you any ways, although all ofyoa waRt me, or
have oc<;asioQ for me : tor I can perfect you all, and bring yo11 tCJ.
a highe,r degre,e, than what you a:rc by nature. ·· The,n tlie ·Gold
gre!" imd not.knowing any more Whtlt to con-
aoltoo w•th 1ts brpther Mercury, and agreed upon tb1s, that the1
wo\lld one another, who being two in number? and our
Sti;>1ie byt single, they, because. they eould get no
by doubiepowcl' de•tr9y it or
knf py s:worct · . . ·. ·. · ' : · · · · .
· our &one ts&uethtrength
them bot.h; .and swall!Jwed them
'\t aU was to be seen ot them; nor
•bq.t WtS"become of.them. · · · ·
·:.''11Nt$,' j'ou'i1
'y deiri-ly beloved; wiJo .fear God,. J'f>ll have ber.e
a. narr.ative or !nstruction to Undf7rata.nd. the
fo;maation. ·01) ·r!)ot of ·the h1ghest and most precwua
; no did ever himself .so
p\;\ln an.d .openly. · · · ;· · · . · ·. . · '
:T/OtJ ·ther«:for:e. wnt)t nothing else, but that yo.u pmy.to God
dlt10le may'grant.you to to a dear and precious
o1git1zed by Coogle
7lze Victorious Stone. 159
jewel. Next to this quiCken your thoughts, and read with pru-
dence, •work with haste not in the preparation of
this precious work; ror it must have its natlll'81 PIPe, or its time
ordained by nature, like fruit on 8 tree, or grapes- on .a vine.
Be likewise of a good will and intention. or else the Lord wiU
grant you nothing ; for God gives it to those, who desire to do
¥0od it, and takes is. or detains it from such aa wouldemplo7
It to dl uses. .
o1git1zed by Coogle
EIItENJEUS
. . - : . . ' . . .
«ce1·ets rrvealetl. Of Hte appearances in .the .!tJ:atra.r
.d,uring the nine digestiu,n.
'HAviNG prepared our sol a11d ourmercu,ry. Shut them :in 01;1r
,"t'essel aud govern them with our fire, and within,forty days
,tbalt see thy .whole ,matter turned' into Jl shadow atop1s,
without any visible mover or motion, or any beat
perceP,tible to the touch, save only that it is But if you
ignorant both of sol ;OIJ.r meJ;CW'y, meddle not
our for only w1H be thy lot, and no gam
,nor profit. But if thou want the di$co:very of our
:Sun, having thorQughly the skill of our mercury, and
how to ·fit it to t¥ perfeGt; .bodl> .which is a great
Then take of sol vulgar well one par:«;, and of
:Our mercury nrst iliJ,Iminated three parts, join them as was before
taught, and set them to the .fire, giving a heat in .which it may
and· s;weat; it be cjrcula.ted day and night .without
for tbe 1opace of pinety days and nights, and thotJ
see in that space, that thy ri.l divided
and reconjoined all the elemenis·of .thy gol4t boil it other
1ifty days, and thou shalt ¥• this · thy so.l yulgar
turned into our sol, which is a of the 1ir.st .order:
thus doth·it become ou,: J>yt ft 'not yet .a
ning tinc.ture. Trust me, many phiJosophers have wrooght this
way, and attai;11ed the yet it is :a most ,tedious \vay, and it
is the of the earth. Moreoy-er when tho11 hast got
Ptis sulphur, do not think thoQ the stone, but only its true
matter; whJch in an illlperfect thing thou Jl)Syest seek, and find
it in a l,Veek, but rare way, God hath re-
.
served for his poor 00ntemned and abje,ct saints. Of this thing
I have no:w determined to write much, in the beginning
ofthis bOok, I deq-ood to bury this in si,lenpe; for lies
knot on the ,sophism of all the aJepti is. built.-
Some wnte concem,ng sol luna ,md they wrJte true;
and others deny sol tf.J?.d vUlgar, and also say
true. I being now moyed with chanty,- :will ·rea4i forth my
hand, and I dare appeal to all the atiepti that ever wrote,
and·tax them all with envy, yea, and I myself had·
to tread in tijat 'same path of envy, but that God did inforce
beyond'what I intended, to whom be praise. I say
U!en t4at each way is true, for it i& but one way m *e
. .
o1git1zed by Coogle
Philalethes. 161
not in the beginning; for our whole secret' is in our mercury,
and in our sol; out . mercury is our way, and without it
nothing is done; our sol also is not sol vulgar,J
· et in s<>l vulgar
is our sol, else how could metals be homogcne ? If then tliou
know how to our. mercury as it ought to be, thou mnyest
for want of our sol JOlll wtth gold vulgAr, but yet know that the
.preparation of the mercury ought to be different for ·the one,
and for the other, and in a true regimen of them, in a hundred
and fifty days, thou shalt have our sol, for our sol naturally comes
out ofour mercury : if then sol vulgar be by our mercury divided
, .into its elements, and afterwards joined, all the mixture, by·the
help of the fire, will become our sol, which then being joined
with that mercury, which we ·prepared; and call our virgins
Jllllk, by reiterate decoction it will give all the signs which the
p'hiloS?phcrs have in such a ·as they written
1n·thexr books. But now· tf you shall m your decoctxon ofSdl
it be most pure, use that same mercury which is
'use(t',
in our so!, thoug_h both from on_e root i? gene;al,
that regtmen ot' heat, whteh the WJsemen In theJr bopks
'haie applied to our stone; thou art without all doubt in an erro:-
'iieout; way, and that is the great labyrinth in which almost all
entangled, for there is scarce one
llbpber who m hts wrJtmgs doth not touch both ways ; whxch JS
indeed butone way fundamentally, _only one is more direct to the
'mark than the other : they then that do write of luna vulgar; as
·we' in this treatise, so also Artephius, Flame! and
'R!pley, with many others; we are not otherwise to be under-
.·stood, but that our philosophical sol is to be made out of·sol
:v!llgar and, mercury, by will
give a sulpliur and vtvc, fixt and mcombusttble, and-whose
'tincture will abide all trials;- also in this sense, our stone is in
every metal or mineriU, forasmuch as sol vulgar may" be ·ex-
iracted out of them, and out of that sol our sol may be made, as
.being nearer in it than_ any metal. So then our stone is in' all
metals, but in our sol and luna nearer than in uny other ; there-
fore.>, saith Flnmel, some wrought it in jupiter,._ some in saturn;
·but I wrought it in sol, and there -I found it. Yet there in
'the mcta11ic kingdom one thing ofa miraculous original, in which
·our sol is nearer to be sought than in s<?l an<.Nunn vulgar, if it be
·sought in the hour of its nativity; which melts in our mercury
like ice in warm water, and yet it hath a· resemblance with
gold : ,this is not to be found in the manifestation of sol vulgar,
· but by relealing that wl1ich is hidden in our mercury ; the ·same
may be found by digestion· of sol vulgar in our mercury
lor tne space of an hundred and fifty days. · This is our gold,
·sought the farthest way about, which is·not yet of so great a
-.irtue as that which nature ltatk made a,nd left to ow· hands;
yet turning the wheel thrice, each come& to one end, yet with thit
thou fiodest in the ont in sevell m9nths, -thpu
o1git1zed by Coogle
l&'J Alchemical Trtatises.
must wait [Qr in the latter the »]lACe of a year and a halfor it
may be two years. I am acquainted with both ways, and com•
mend.the first to all ingenious men, but in my descriptions I
have DWit touched the hardest way, lest I should draw on . m"/
head tbc anathema of all pllilosopliers ; know then, that this 11
the ouly difficulty, in reading the books of tho,Se that are most
candid, that all, one ns well as the other, do vary the regimen,
and they write one work they set down the regimen of
anpther, in which snare I was entangled myself at first, and it
'Was long befure I could get free out of tnis Ret. Thirdly
lirstly, there is a mi.x.t work, where sol vl!lgar is mixt with our
.-Jlercary iu a due pr.oportion, and a ferment of our sulphur is
as .much as is sufficieDt.; then are.fulfilled all the miracles
_
m.thc.wo.rld, .and the elixir bec<nnes.able to fumish the
with riches and h<mlth : see.k then our sulphur with all thy
whicll, believe me, tho-. sllalt find in our mereury.-
:rakc then that mercury which I have described, and unite with
to which it is 1ll06t frieadly,. and in sevca months, iD our
regimen of laeat, dlou shah for eertain .see all which ·thou
desirest, or in nine montns. .or ten at the .moat; but onr luua ia
fUll tho" sLalt: 5ee in five months : and these Jll'e the true
;per.iod11.of salpbnrs, out of which, by reiteJ'ate ·decoction,
-thQIU shalt ha-re ou stene and permoent tmctunes, through tbo-
:gmce d God, to whom be all gloryand :hoDOur tor eyer. · ·
· If .chols shalt work io sol or luna to fuld our sulphur in
CODsider .if'you:see.this matter like to paste, and to boil like
Mto wat.Qr, or rathu to Jnelted pitch ; for our sol an4 mercul'1
have ,aa emblematical type in aol vulgar, joined w.ith, and de-
.iQ our mereury. Whea thoa. hast kindled thy funuu:e,
=wait -for dw space of twe:Rty days and nights, in which time
a.l;aQU .shalt .obser.ve di'fss .rolours,. and abouc the end of the
week, if the ..tite be cont.Wual, thou shalt see a
.,Wahle.gR!elllless, wlaioh will be.seen for abo..u teil days, less
pr JllQl'"" UleR rqjoiee, foe without doubt ·in a short time thou
shalt like a .coal .i.a blackness, auad all the members.of
oolllpound s.haU be :turned into aton11, :fOr the operation ia
,.o other t)uw. .a rt!aC)lution of the tixt.iA that wbich is not fixt;,
lha.t .after.warda both joiued together, may make one
; JW"'ly apirilual, partly corporeal: saiUl the
philowpher, •e the corasc:ePe -
dog and bitch of AJ:menia, joiu
lhem .tQ,ether,aDd.they lhaJi beget thee a tJOD.of the colour of the
heaven ; wr natures, .iri a sbort deccxlion, shall, be tumed
il)to .a brotla,.like &mto .the foam of the sea, or like a tlHck cloud,
which ahall·be tiactared with a lirid colour; and onee more I
may aasure tiee, that I have not hidclen any tbiog, save only
&he regHilen, .aJUl chis, ..if thou art wise, tbon shalt easily collect
from my Jines.: supposiug the:R that thou wilt learn the regimen ;
aake.the,sto.De·which I bave told you ofbefore, and govern it ai-
J'lU.:kuow how, awl thew &hi& aoable.
o1git1zed by Coogle
Philalethes. 163
first, as soon as oUT 5tone ehail ffel the fire, it til\ail .flow, it1
sulphur and its merC\lry together upon ,the .6re like to wax, an4
the sulphur shall be burned, and the colour shall day
by da.r.; but the mercury is incombustible, only it shall be
affecteO .with the .colours « the sulphur ,for a time, but it
eannot be radically afFected, therefore it will wash latton clean
from ita filth ; reiterate the heaven upon the eatth, so long
and so ofl:en, tbe •rth receiYe a spiritual and heavenly
0 blessed nat.ure, which doth which is impossible
tOr maQ to do I when in ·thy glass .thou shalt see thy
nature. to be llke unto a coagulated and burnt blood•
know,that then the"female is embraced by the male ; therefore
aften f.he first stirring up of the matter, expect that in seven..
teen days thy twd natures sbaU be turned into a bloody or fatted
broth,.which ahall be round like \m.ro a .thick
cloud, or ;the scum of the sea, as is before said ; a,nd the
ef it willJ>e exceeding obscure;. then be sure that the· kingly
&l8Wl is and from that time thou shalt aee vapoun,
@f.-n, blue, blat,k and yEillow, ,the air; .and at the sides
th!t vessel. Tht!!!e are those winds, which in the ferming c4
QU eUJbryon, are very frequent, w_
hich arc .to be kept warily•
• they fty OR;&, the work be beware alto of the
C¥Jour, lest it·happen to elthale at any .chink ; for the virtue of·
the stone w;owd;thereby get a most notable detriment ; therefore
the phUoaopher to \teep the vessel cl011e sealed,
and beware ,that you do not bl1!ak oft' abruptly from the work :;
. Deithor DpeD nor move the vessel, nor yet intermit the operation
.Dot ao hour, but continue ,the ·decoction till you see the mois-
ture begin·lO fail, be in about thirty days ; then re-
joice,,and rest auured tb• thou Rl't in the right Atten4
the work vigilantly, for in about twe weeks from the time,
tbalt dae whole earth dry ar)d notably black, then is the
death of thy compound at hand. tile winds are and all
are at rest and •. 'J'his is the fatal eclipse ofthe sun and
ofthe m()9n, when no light shallshine upon eltrth, and thl.
.ee& shall •anish, the,t is made our chaos, out of whieh, at the
mliUDI,IJid of Goc;l, shall proceed all the ,uir,acles of world
tJleir ordeJ!J\. ·
s. The burning of the flo\,Vers is an EtTor offatal CQSlleqnence_,
yttt soOD committed before the natures which ar.e tender are
extracted from their profundity; they Brcoftentimes burnt;
tft'CH' ill chiefty to be after the three weeks ; for in the
there isso moisture, that ifthe work be governed
JJy a arouger 1]rethan is convenient, the Yeesel being will
Qot·beili' tlie ab\ffl,dan('.e of but will suddelll,Y ft' jn
unless gJass lle too large, and then sure tlae vapours will be
10 oul-of ltie&sure dispersed, that they will return again
fjht!ir.botlY., at least not &o much ae is for. re•
Jlutee !IIXJQ ·&t$ Ute earth 4ihall begm to
o1git1zed by Coogle
J&i .Alchtmical'Treall'sd.
retai11 part· of its water, then the vapoun decreuing, the fire
may be strengthened·without danger of the vessel ; but the work
will nevertheless be destroyed, and wiU have a colour of a wild
poppy, and the whole compound will at length become a dry
and unprofitable powder, of a half red colour: Thou con•
elude trom this sign, that thy fire hath been too strong, se
strong, to wit;, as to hinder true conjunction; for know,
our work doth require a true change of natures, which cannot
be until an entire union of both pripciples be made;· but the1
cannot be b!.lt in the form of water, for bodies may be
confounded or hlended together, but cannot be united, nor yet
can nny h9dy with a spirit he united ·per minima ; but spirit&
with spirits may well be united, therefor.e our operations must
become homogeneal metalijc water ; the way to w!Uch
is our foregoipg true calcination, which it npt ari
exsiccatio11 prop(lrly, l>ut a kin(I grinding ofwater and·earth;·intO
atom$ ; which when tht?y beeopte more subtle than the exigen.;.
cies of the earth rcquircst earth then actually transmuted im:o;
and ·doth receive the form of water; but if the fire be too
·vchemen4 this ·nature· being struck .as with a fatal
stroke, our will becollle pa86ive, of spiritual corporeal,
even a red unprofitable precipitate, for in adue heat the coloui
will be as p]ack as of the crow, whi<:h tho:ugh it be dark,
yet it is most dcsh·able ; yet there also a :r:edpess \'lhich will
in the :beginning of true work, and that very re..
markable, but this is ever with·a dueptoportion ot
Jnoisture, and sheweth that heayen an{l have been iu con-
junction, which the fire of is by
which all the concave of the glll88 "till sce10 as it were
gilt over with. gpld, but colour is not durable .long, but in a.
short space will pe cJumged mto a then Ul a very short
time expect . i and if thou wilt be patiatt;, thou for
certain shalt see thy desire accomplished,.at least make slow;
sure.progress. Let not thy flellt be over strong, and yet str()l)g
enough, and between Scilla !Jail like unto a skilful
·pilot, so 'shalt thou attain th.e of either India-; some-
times thou'shalt see as it were little Islands tloq.ting, and shoot-
ing o?t as it were and buds, which wjil be
able m colours, which soon wdl be 1md others wdl ariSe
in the stead of the.m ; for the earth inclining to -a ve-
gctati?n, is always se!lding some thillg or
thy' \\:ill be thotr seest tP. tl!y slass bitda.or
beasts, or and tpoQ shalt d!ly co-
lours most beapnful sigl:lt, th<>'!lgh th£7· IU'C pleas&nt
to the eye, nrc uot..Qf a lpn_g ; all is iu the keeping
of a ·due heat Wltho\lt· · So shall all these
pleasant .colours in the !paef! pf fifty days en<l in a colour most
black, and a powder ·discontib.u.ous, which if .thou scest not,
.bl01me either. thy merclol!y or t.lty Qf dispQSiti9.n Qj
• ._ . ' • • : < • t
o1git1zed by Coogle
PhUalethes. ·
th.e _D)atter, BOlei,S thOu hast · mo.ved· or meddled
the glntii, which may pt·OtrllCt or finally destroy
wot·Jc. · . · · ·
4. 1\..s Iq.any of the wise men aa have wrote of this master-piCCfJ
have all spoken ofihe regimen of-Saturn, .wbi.cft
wrong, have turned aside unto diNers er-
FOrs, thema;clves with their own opi,Jion; some
}?eing 'tln,as led with a great deal of confidence,- although wjth
very little advantage. But knol_V that our Saturn is mol'd
noble than any .Oold.; it is the Limus in -which the soul of our
.Gold is joinetl. )Yith its .Mercury, that after they may produce
Adam . Eve hi!! wife ; therefQre that which is ·the highest,
§hfll so humble itself as to become tlte .lowest, then expect> .
that he will redeem all his brethren bJ his bloOd. The sepulchrtJ
in which our King is buried, is named in our work, and
it is the key of the work of transmutation ; 0 happy is he that
may behold this slow planet ! Ptay to God, my brother, that
pe w_ould vouchsafe to you his blessing ; for it is not of him th"'t
.nor of him runneth, but on the Father of Jjghts alone;
.this blessing · ·
.5. Be cer;taUtly confident, .studious son of art, ·whoever .thou
tltaf n.othing is b.i.dden in this work, save only the x:egimen,
.,of '!hiah, th.at of t.he philasopher .may be verified, whoever is
. of that scienpe. princes and grandees of tlte earth shall
him. J · you, .UJ>C?D die .word of an honest man,
that if this one secret were but openly d.i,<;covered, fools them-
selves would deride the art ; tor that being known, nothing re-
ptains wor)f. of wo.tnCJI, and ·tlte play of children, and'
that is . So Jhat not without cause did the wise men
hide this secret with ·all their might. And rest a&sured that
we have done t4e sa_qtc, we qave'seemed to speakcon..
the of heat ; yet because I .did promise candour
in this treatise, something at the least is to be done, that I may
-!lot decei!e the ingenious ·of their . hope and pains. Know
then, that Ol!.r regjmen, from the beginning to the end, is only
lineal, and is to: decoct and to digest, and yet this
';regimen i_n it§elf many others,' which the
;have by giyillg them dive1·s names, and describing as
·:F many We, to p.crfurm ·the candour we
wii\ JUake a more perspicuous So
,that, Reade.:, whoever thop art, if ingenious, thou.
find ledge otir f:IUldidness in · mot·e titan.
ordinary. ' · . · · · · . - ,
6. Aru.l ip firsi place, we shall treat of the regimen .of
.,MERCURY, which i!' a hitherto not discovere<f by any phi-
losophers; iqr they verily do begin their work at the second
1egimen, and do.give a young practitioner no light in the mae-
tel)' of the capital signs of blackness ; in th.is point, that good
of 'l'rev.i:io _
noble 13er.uard, wqo iu his pu-,
. . - ... . . . ' . . ' . .
• o,g,,zed by Coogle
·t(J6 .Atchemica1 Treatius.
w T.Ut the .Ki11g; when be came to the FountAint
all strangers- behind a:-ters the Bath alone, Clothed
" in golden 'obes, which he puts off, to Saturn, his
first· Chamberlain, from whom he recei'Yeth a black velvet
ci suit." BlJt he &ht!Weth not' how long the ,interval o( time is_
before he pluc,b. off his golden garment, and therefore he .
paaseth jr1 sileuce the first and most intricate regimen, which
it perhape or fifty days tee it be fully complete ; in
time the poor t;rootWoner is left to uncertain experiments ; fu>m
the appearing of until the very.end of the work, the
sights that do appear are sufficient to refresh the ·artist, but in
this space to waddEt :without a guidt or direction) for the space
of fifty tlays, I c.essis tedious. J say then, ,that &om the
aecortd kindling of the fire, even until blacknefl8t all the inter,. .
't'al oftime is the regiup.en of our mercury, even of our
merc11ry. which all ,that doth work. alone, his companioz,.
l>eing dead at first, and w remains a great 11pace; and secret
'befOre me Ju) man eyer yet Tberefore thy
matters l,ll'e joined, which are .ollt Sol and out l\1etcury, do
think, .as some alchemists va.ip'y imagine, that #le setting ofthe
fkJh will tOllow lmddenly, 110 :veply, we waited a and te,.
diouli while before a retonciliap(Jp wa& made the water
and the fire ; and this the ha:ve iD a speech mys:.
tictilly ·they in the beginning of their
nrk, ealled tbeir mstter &h¥ is, two
-·aeootdirtg tQ .
the poet, ·
Bn llebis bina con.jMntea., Bt4 e!l ttna
Itt prima si.t aw $0l aut Spmnala
Rehis ate two thing& join«<, 'yet is but
DissolTedt Sol or .Lune be Sperm alope.
f!or know of an undoubted truth, that tMugh our Mertury
-devoor the Gold, ·yet it doth it not so as chel11ieal phADtastiq
dn'aril; mr although the Gold join with our "et
.year afi:er yov. separate each from tOO .other tn own na·
tinless you decoCt thmt together in a ef
fire; otherwise they not be altered ;, whe will affirm the
c:bnuvy1 is no philosopher. They who •ander in
_ ertotlf
fJaUl, do dt-eam that it is $matter of v«y Jight coll<.'eJ"'lmeilt t,q
tiiaolve perfuct.bodie£ in .om.- 'i.n@Opltich, at,.
cording to imaginations, ip. tpis "'ill be devouraJ
in the twinklinS of IDl eye; well • place
J Demard in parable hi,
Book drowned in his Foantaj.nr )Jut a
it is to dissolve bodiet, the}' Can. witness who bave ·tsk.et}
pains in this dissolUtion. I myself, who have been oft taug}4
this 1035011 by e>cUlu J>e &. 4 it t1
o1git1zed by Coogle
Phftaleth(6. 167
Jnoat to go-.em t.M .fir«, ffM ·t¥l:m the matt«
is prepared., sueh a as may dissolve the bodies as u.e, ougil&
to be dissolved, without homing Attend dHa
JO my .dQC#ine : take the body whiclt .I have suwcd you, and
put jt illto tb.e water of QUI" -sea, Jllld decoct wUh a
dae t'Jlat both dew!J aJltJ doudJ may ani
c.lrops may dcsc;end, both a,u.d d_-y, without c
and know, in thil! ci.T.c tile Merco17 doth arise i.n iu
former nature, the btQdy :inU. {Qmer natwre.
JO long until afu,r a long tbe 'OOjy to r.etaih pan qf
*IPW.ao by degrees both. paJ.\&akeeach of.tbe.other, but;
the whole w.ater not :by . pa$.
pf ,it rem,aioa below in the .ofalle vessel, d'lerefure is
the body boiled in the water that remAins beneath, ,anti by its
it is·sifted, and 'he ch-ops whick aJ'e roatiOMally r.unaing
.dow• :do perforate the and by £01itQ,IIftl 4Jio..
1ile water is m.ade more sW->tle, .aJld .doth .extract
.qf the Sun ; so by :thf; of the eoal Ute spjrii
._ with the body, An 11riio.n of both is JJJade a
- .• ll,lCI6t within fitly d$-ys; al)d operatiQia js .
thla
of Mercury, bcoouse js Jlbore,
a4: ·-4 t.he body of (he Sun is ttad the :bodJit
in his work passive, .
until t,he colow-s wWdl w».l
be a li'tle about the day in a· and .continual
elmlliU® ; w.bidl coloun are a.fter:wards H!cre.nsed, mult.iplietl
- UDtil all ·be at iaat Mnlpleted in bJa.ck .oftlhe blac:ke.i
bWck, willch d$-y w.ill .
· (1.f Fates tke
7. Having 1-un through M-ercury, ·whicb is
etri,p the Kiog of his ·aaaaq-}t tJ<.e ¥ith db--
.to weary h,i.m, and at length to lUllrum ; 'lite MSt
l'e.gjluen that appears is that of SATV.-N, foi it ja the will ofGocl
that the work, when once it is begun, should be carried on e.-e.a
JllltO the end, and .the Jaw .ofthose is, that the end;ng
of one, is the .ofanother ; the pe(.iod <i.o.oe. the begin•
Ding .of tlno.tber. Nor doth the regimen of SQODe,r puJ,
away, but.his aueccSSQr Saturn in, who is the JV!Xt :heir
in th.
e Lion dying, .the Q:ow is eng«Uldei:ed. Th¥
.Jine:U in r.esp.ect of die ealopr, fOJ' tbt:!re jj :but_.OSle
pJl)y colO¥r, .and t.bat.is .tbe bl&.ckcst .blade. but :ueither
Jlor w.inds., nor any symbol of life, ®l.Y the· comp>.und, w:ia
• SOIJle appear hoiling·lik.e to melte4
pitch. 0 sad !iight, the ofeternal death ! But withal a
most · messenger .to the arti&t, .fo.r blackness is ·JJOJ!
inten,e, so that it shines .again for blackness ; and when
thou seest 'by matter a.welling beneath, like unto .a. reJoicei
for know, that within tbia there is abut a quickening
in its time, will restore life from the Ahnighlf
C&rfa.set.. lk thou. only careful of the fire, which tho\l
,· o1git1zed by Coogle
"168 .Alc1lemical Trcntise8.
must be Sure fO with a soond judgm·ent, and I swear unto
.thee upo'n the faith of an honest man, that if thou urge thy
fire; so as .to make ought to sublime, ill the days of this regi·
men, thou wilt desu-oy the work irreoo.Y'erably ; be content
.then,· with good ·1'revisan, to be detained in prison forty days
and Rights; and suffer the tender nAture to remain below in the
bottom, which is tbe. nest ·of their conception ; knowing for
:certain then, that the period of. thne is ex:pired, whicb
the apPointed, the spirit will arl:se·gloriotis, and
glonfy 1ts body ; 1t will ascend, I say, and be ctrculated sweetly,
and without violence, and from the centre it shall ascend unto
the heavens, and again from the hea'Yens it shall descend to
the centre, and i' shall receive the virtue of that which is above,
and that which is beneath.
. s. After .black saturn1 JU·l'rttn, succeeds, who is of diven
·colours; for after the putrefaction and corruption which is made
in the bottom of the vessel, through the command of God thou
.shalt again see change of and a circulating sublimation.
· .'l"his regimen is not durable, tor it continues not more than three
•eeks space; in which time, all colours imaginable in the world
will beto be seen, of which, no certain account can possibly be
In, these days the showers shaH be multiplied con-
tinually, and at the last, after all these things most .beautiful
to behold,. there sh!J.).l shew itself a whiteness at the sides of the
veSsel, like. unto rays or hairs,, then rejoice, for pow thou art
happily run through the regimen ofJupiter. The greatest cau-
tion in this regimen is, lest when the chickens of tlte crow have
left their·nest, they return to it ; .also, lest you draw out
the water too immoderately, so the earth beneath want it, and
be left dry and unprofitable in the bottom ; lastly, Jest thou wa-
terest thy earth so intemperately as to Mttfocate it, which
error thou shalt help by the good regimen of external
fire.
9. In the regimen o( LUNA. After the finishing ofJupiter's
rtlgimen; about the closing of the fourth month, the sign _of
·the mooncrescentshall appear w1to thee; and·know, that the
-whole regimen of Jupiter is employed about the washing of
.Latton, the washing spirit is very white in its nature, but the
bodywhieh is to be washed is very bla,ck, in the passage whereof
whitt', all the middle colours shall be seen ; after which, all
.,Qll become w.hite, not in a day, but gradually it shall arise
from white to the whitest of all; and know, that in this
operati!,ln, there shall be a season in which all shall appear
Jike to liquid .A1-gent rive, and this is called, the sealing of the
in the belly of her O\m infant which she brought forth ;
and in this regimen there shall also appear some
ix>lours, ·but momentary .and soon vanishing, and more of kin to-
"hite tlwn. Wlto black,. the colours in the regiu1eu ·of·Jupitet
o1git1zed by Coogle
tonlraTiwisc -participated more of than whit$ess;·
also kno:w_, that in thl;Ce Weeks the regimen of tuna will
cu,mplete, but before its perfec.tion the shall
in a thousand forms ; for :when th_e ·fPmes begin to cease,
it be wholly it witt melt·and gro:w l,utrd agil;in mi
1mildred times in a <lny j ·it wiH app<'n,f like to the
eyes of a fish, like a pure tree witli
branchei and leaves _
; m a word, .abo\lt t1us season tl•e hourly
marvels that :tlh_
all appear, shall ,the sight, and at the
tast f1lou sltalt have most pure sparkling grnins fikc ,unto
of the J_Dore glorious thl}.ll human eyes never saw.
Let ,us give immortal to our G9d, who hath brought the
work to this perfection ; for. it is the· true pe,rfect tincture t()
the )•ct Only of the first order, and therefore but of Sm!lll
virtue, in oompat'isi¥t of that admimble force which it will attuin
by re_iteratc' ' ' . · · .' ' · .
· · · In the of YEN'us,. I· Above .all t)ting11 this is
_
wo,n,de!Wl, o!lr Stone being now. perfect,
to f!!Ve a perl'ect tmcture, should of Ius own' accord agam ·
ltiinself, and ?eoome again volat.ile without any In_
ying on· of
hands. But lf you tnke the white stone out of the vessel, the
same being P1lt again into a new ve8seJ, after' it !s once· cold;
'Can never be brought into a ,new operation ; .a demonstrative
rcaso.n of ,wtJi.clt? we nor any of the ancient philosophers
are able ,to render, only it is done by. of ;
lte!c b.e '[ery wary of lire? for ·the 1aw of_the
when 1t 1s perfect, that 1t must·be tits1bie. Therefore ifyou give ·
too great !1 the matter will be vitrified? and · will -
adhere to the stdes of the vessel ; nor capst thou then go on
any work: ·· is ·'vip·i_tYing of
matter.so often warned of by the pbtlosophe!'S, Winch oft hap'7
pens to them which are unwary both before and after. the white
lVork is wit, after (,f of
Luna, unttl seventh or pay the of Y ,
Therefore let thy fire be increased but a yery little, that the
compound may vitrifY, that is, to be nieltCd like· ·
iOglass; but with a fire,' it may of it!! accord
rileJt, and s\vcll, aitd by the command· of.God it be en-:
clued '}'ith a .spirit, that shall fly aloft, and the to fly'.with
it•. It. soou·thus tltee at
'\Vhtch ts of yenus, spall ll!st a long le!!s or
for the space of twcntl t after thls Cernle an4'
Livid, and about 'the end ot rule Venus pale and
<?bscure purple, be heedful that do· not pro;.,
voke the too urgently, for now more corpor?l
formerlv, 1f It do fly to the top of the vessel, It
liardly of its own accord ;·which caution is also to be
observed in the rule of Luna. Wheo once thou seest the spirit$
fo thieken, lhen handle .sweetly -and withoil.t
;;
o;9,hzed by Google
Alclttmical 1'rcatiscs.
lest ifthoq Jl)akest them to. aacend to the top, that is iB
the bottom be either burnt or vitrified, to the destruction of the
"·ork; when then 'thou seest greenness, ·know that in it is tht>
virtue germinative Beware then that this ·greenness
turn not . into a filthy blacknes.s with immoderate heat, but
iovern thy fire pmdently ;. so after forty da,Ys thou shalt sec this
at an end. · · ·
11. After the rule of Venus is ended, whose colour was chiefly
nrt or a little red of .an obscure ptil'}>le, some-
times livid ; in which time the philosophical tree .did flouris\i
'with boughs arid with discoloured leaves and branches, next suc-
ceeds the reign of MARs, which shews a little yel\ow,
with luteous brownness; these arc the. chief colours, but tram-
ones of the rain-bow and peacock's-tail, -it shews most
; is a dry.state. of the compound, in· which.ibe
compound wtll appear at times m strange figures ; the hyacmth,
iUld high orange .
colour in these ·will be freqqently
Nqw mother being sealed in her iufimt's pelly, s;wclls and is
furified, but becawse of the present great purity o( the com,.
f?OUnd, DO putridness can have pll\C.e in tltis regin)en, but some
9bscure colours play tlleir part a11 the chief actots in this stone,
and some middle colours do pass antl cdmc, pleasant to 6ehold.
that is the 11\St tillage of our virgin eartl), that
Jn it the fruit of the_sun lnightbe set and
ti:mtinue a goW heat, aud thou se·e for certain, thirty ·
(lays· off, n citririe colour· shall whicll
shan in two weeks after firt>( appearing, tinge all with atrue
eitrine ' · · ' · · '
.1 Now art thou drawing near to the end of thy worlt, anq
almost JnaJe end of this business ; now ·all the· regimen
of Sol, appears like to {>Ul"e gold, and the virgin's lollk, witli
thoit imbibcst this is nqw 'w:ri citriQe. Now ia
God,. the giver of aU you tnust reuder. iniinortal thanks;
who hath brougnt this wo1'k 01,1 so far; a"-d beg camestly of him,
ffu\t thy counsel may be so that·thoti mayqst
J)ot endeavour husten thy work now is so perfection, 'so
IS to lose all. . Comider that thoti hast waited DOW about seven
mouths, and it 'would be· a mad thing to annihllate all in
hour; thErefore bethoo very wary, yea.,·,so much the 'more by'
liow mnc_h ne.arer to .Perfection. · Bnt: if do prO.:
war1ly 1ll tlus rcg1men, thou shalt meet w1th Wiese·uotable:
f!tings.J fiM, thml shalt obse1·ve ·n ce.rtai.Jl citrioe sweat to stnndj
t!pOll the boclv, nnd after that citrine vapours. $heR sl1all thy
tiodl be of a colour, with
ple mterm1xt; after lou.rte<'n or dnys m thiS
l!t·gimtm of the Sun, thou shalt see the ofthy matter
humid, nnd it be VCI"J ponderous, yet it will. ascend
' tht: belly of the wmd ; at length, about tlle day Of.
.this n·pimcn,. it will begi? _
to dry, and it will
' o1git1zed by Coogle
·Philtilethes.
rccongeal, and will grow liquid again an hundred times fn a:
day, until at the la!rt it begin to turn into grains, and sometilnet'
it will seem as if were all discontinuous in ana thtm'
again it will grow into one mass again, and titus will it put cnr.
innumerable fotms in one day ; and . this wm C()ntinne far 'l:hfJ
space of about two weeks ; at the last, by the wlll of Ood, a
light shall be sent upon thy matter, which thou eanst not itn&-1
gine ; then expect a sudden end, witl1in tliree days thou abttk
see, that thy mntter shall com·ert itself into grains, 8$ fine af
the atoms of the Sun, and the colour will be the highest red
?mnginahle, which fbr its transcendant rednt-96 will shew blacldrh,
like unto the soundelrt blood when it is congealed, although thoti.
maycst not believe thaf any such thing can be an exact parallel
of our elixir, for it is a marvellous creature, not having itt
tompeer in the whole universe, nor any thing
like it.
19. Remember now, that thou bnst got our SUlphur
incombustible, which can by no fire 'be promoted further of
itself, and be very wary, that in the regimen of the citrine sun,
beforetltis supernatural Sol be born, which is adorned a
true Tyrian colour; lest, I say, thou then vitrifY thy matter 1\'itli
too great fire, for so it would be after insoluble, and by eon..
sequence cannot be coagulated into these glorious atoms, red ·d£
the reildest. Be ·wary then that thou destroy not so grelit a
treasure, and .yet do not t11ink thnt thy lubour here hath an
·bttt pt?Ceed further, out of this Snt:Phur,
Tetterate IICtutton and thou mayest have our eHxrr.
Take tPsen of most fine Oold three patts. and of this Snlpira'r
one part, thou 'mayest--take four parts of and a fifth
of orrr Sulphur, :but·tim aforesaid proportion is bctter ; melt th'e
:Gold in a dean crucible, and when it is melted, put thy Sulphtir
into it, bat •ery warily, lest you lose it by the smook of tlte
cosls, let them flow together, then put them forth int<' an
ingot, und thou shalt have a mass, whic.h Jbny be pnh-cri!;ed,
of a most glorious red colonr, but hardly ·trnnspllrent; then
take of this rtlass pal:verised one. part;. of' thy
Met'Cttry two nnx them 1tcll, m a glass, whrch
and·gaft!l'tl it as lrefbre tm> tn'Otiths, in whidi thne thou
shalt see all the aforesaid reg:imens in their order.
Tfiis i'8 true fetmentation, thou if thou wilt,
reitc.!Tate. · · ·
14. I know tibat many abthors do tah fertnenbttion in -this
\\'ork for the internal invisible agent, which they etlll ferment,
by whose virtue the fugith-e and -subtile spirit, without
on of httnd'S, are of-their own acoord thickened ; nud aur a ·
·mentioned ·of fermentmion they call cibation with bresl
and milk, so Ripley ; bttt I, not using to cite other autltots,
nor yet ·to to ·their words ·in a thing, I Jtl1Wlt
o1git1zed by Coogle
Alchemical Treatises.
know as \Yell as·they, have followed my own judgment in u1y
There· is then anotl1er operation, by whi.c;b our
stone is increased in weight more than virtue. Take of thy
Sulphur, white or red, .and to three part=; of the Sulphu-r add a
part of the water, and after a little blnckness, in 11i.." or
seven dnys decoction, tby watet newly added shall be increased
()r thickened, like- unt() thy Sulphv.r; then add another fourth
part, not in respect of the wbole.eompound, which is now in-
c:reased a fourth part by the first imbibition ; but in reference to
thy first Sulphar, as thou tookest it at first., wllich being dried,
add another tourth part, and let It be congealed with a convc-
. nient fire, then put to it two parts of the water in reference to the
three parts of Sulphur wllich thoa tookest at fint, before the
first imbibition, a.nd in this proportion, imbibe and congeal three
other times., at last add five parts of water in the seventh imbi-
bition, still remembering to reckon the water in reference to tbe
8S' it was taken at first ; seal thy vessel,· and in a fire
·like to the former make thy compound pass througb all the
aforesaid regimens, which will be done in one montb, and tllcn
thou hast the true slone ofthe tbird ord'ei ; of one part
".will fall on a thousand, and tinge perfectiy. ·
. 15. To tbe MUL'l'IPLIC;ATION efthe stone is required no labour,
·St\ve only tbat thou. take tbe &tone, beins perfect, and joiu it
.with three or at tbe most withfour parts of Mercury of
.our flnst work, and govern It with a due fire, in a vessel well
dosed, so shall all the regimens pass with infinite plea&u.re, and
thou shah have the whole increased a thousand tOld beyood what
:it was befOre the multiplication of it.; and · if tl1ou shalt reiterate
• this work again, in tbree days thou shalt run through all the
·regimens, and thy medicine shall be exalted to anothe.r millinary
.vittue of tincture ; and if thou yet shalt reiterate the work, lt
wiU. be perfected in a natural.day,. and all the regimens and
colours shall pass,. which will be done afterwards witb another
·reiteration in one hour, nor shalt thou at last be able to find
.·the extent ofthe virtue of thy stone, it shall be so great that it
·8ball pass thy ingenuity to reckon it, ff tbat tbou proceed in the
·work ofreiterate nmltiplicatior'• .....Now remember to re11der im-
mortal thanks to God1 for thou now hast t.be whole treasure of
.nature in tby
· • 16. The manner of PUOJECTIO:R is t<> take of thy stone per-
fected a5 is said, white or red, according to the quality of the
.medicine, take of either gold or silver four parts, melt them
in a clean crucible, then put in of thy stone, white or red, as
.!he metal that is melted is in quality, and being well mixed to-
- getber in tiu.ion, pour them into an ingot, and thou shalt have
' a mass which is brittle ; .take of this mass one part, and Mercury
well washed ten parts, heat the Mercury till it begin to crack,
then throw upon it this mixtare, which in the .twinkling of an
eye will piel·ce itt increase thy fire till it be melted, and ull will
o1git1zed by Coogle
I
Philalcfhes. 173
be a medicine of inferior virtue ; take then of this, and cast, ,
one part upon any metal, purged and melted, to wit, as much
as it can tinge, and thou sbalt ha:ve. most pn.-e gold or silver,
purer than which nature cannot give. But It is oetter to make
projection gradually, until projection cease ; tor so it will extend.
farther; f<;>r when so little is projected onso Juuch, unless pro-
jection be made on Mercury, there is a notable loss of the me-
dicine, by reason of the scorias, which do adhere to impure me-
tals; by bow much then the metals ar&better purged before pro-
jection, by so much more will the matter succeed. . .
. . 17. He who hath once, by the blf.!>Sing of God, perfectly at-
tained this art, I know not what in the world he carl wish, but
that he may be free from all snares of wicked men, so as toserve
God without distraction. But it would be a thiDg, by out-·
ward pomp to seek for vulgar applause, &uch trifles are not .es- 1
teemed by tho11e who have this art, nay rather they them.
He therefore whom God hath blessed with this. talent, bath this
field of content, which far exceeds popular admiratio,n ;
if he should live a thousand years, and every day provide for
a thousand men, he could not want, for he may.increase his
stone at his pleiiSure, both in weight and virtue; so.that, if a ·
man would, one man that is an adeptist, might transmute into
perfect gold and silver all the imperfect metals that are in the
whole world; secondly, he may by tliis art make precious.stones
and gems, such as cannot be parallelled in nature, for goodness
and greatness. Thirdly and lastly, he hath a medicine universal,
both for prolonging life, and curing of all diseases, .so that
one true can. easily all the sick people in WQI'ld,
I mean his medicme Is sufficient. ·
Now to the King Eternal, Immortal and sole Almigbty, be
eterlasting praise, for these his unspeakable gifts, and invaluable
Whosoever enjoyeth tbis,talent, let him be sure ..to
employ it to the glory of God, and the good of his neig}lbours_
lest he be found ungrateful to God his creditor, who hatli blessed
him with so great a talent, and so be in the last day found guiltJ
of misproving 9f it, and <:oodemncd,
o;9,11zed by Google
• THE LEARNED SOrmEs FEAST.
Eiren. Philcikthes, iii Ripley revived.
WaoEVER would desire etemnl fame, must··Jearn to tame
the·green lion. Before you can attain this by art, you must
nndetstand it by stndy, and not that ot' the schools, or the infor-
mation of every pedant. But lest you should go &om this ban-
unsatisfied, I shall portmy it to your attentive mind, ifyou
ate a worthy guest. This hor'"!d beast, called oul'}iol!, so
many names, that unless God dtrect the searcher, rt ts lmpos-
a'ble to distinguish him. Though called a lion, it is not an
animal substan.ce ; but for its transcendant force, and the raw•
ness of its origin, it is called the green lion. Now bear me;
and I !hall disclose thesecret, which like a rose has been guarded
by thorns, so that few in times past could pull the flower.
There is a Sftbstance of a metaltine species, which looks so
elondy, that the unwise will have to do with it; its
"risibleform is vile--it defiles metalline bud1es, and no one can
:readily imagine, that the pearly drink of bright Phoobus should
tpring frgm·thence. ·
0 ed f At this spring, Diana sat nuked;
two dreadtitl beasts guard it, driving away an rash searchers, all
Diana punished Acteon fOr his presumptuous chase. · Thi"s sub-
ject never kit the nrc of metallic sulphur, but is more erucle
than imy mineral; it delades the unwary, and is fugitive in
the fire, pa'rtiCl'llaYly the purest part which is -driven away by
that which is ·impure.
. It&components al'e, a most pure and tender mercur.r.J, a dry
incarcerate sulphur, which ·binds it. and restrains fhtKation.
This sulphur infects the mercury with malignant qualities.
Although they have no fundamental union, yet the secret com-
mtmion is prevented between the virgin nymph called our lead,
and her dear sister, which runs down abundantly in silver
streams. Then should the beams of bright Apollo cause the
dews ofthese commixt waten that fnll from the high mountains,
and glide through the vallies to conceive the fire of nature,
·which warms the bath for Sol to desceJild and wash himself
with fair Phrebe, till they renew their flesh and youth-to shine
with glory, and multiply without end. Know this subject; it is
the sure basis of all our secrets ; take off its covering, and fol·
low my advice, for the truth is ONE-it is not in many things;
this is our stone appearing at first in a defiled garb, to deal
o1git1zed by Coogle
115
,plainly, it is t)lc childof mean price and,great yenom:;
cold, though mixed with a combustible sulphur. . You must be
sure to'get another sulpJiur a pure metalline kind, and mix
.it with the merc.nrial par.t. .. sulphur is to be iOund ift
the hou!le of Ancs. Tlua 1s Alc1des, whom Jason took
.'him to C.olchos, in of tpe golden No boqk has
'revealed this. Our subject is' malleable. thougq inetalline.
Jts colour . is sable, with intcrmix.t which inu:ke.d
·sable peld witlt veins of glitteri.,g branches, You never Qlll
separate the pure parts from the impure with fire 01' water, or
dig it thence with the hardest iron. Steel is copquered by i"
· tllough were the breaa-plate of 0 wonderoos fQrce ;
the sages in to tame this and sutfered
,llim to piey o)l the ·companiollj of Cadmus.. When the A,zht
:was oyer, they made him .to abide uader waters, tiled by ihe
charm of Diana, gave him 1vings like a dragon•
and the sharpnet!! of this .fiery spring.of witer, qwe;ed the h4rp:
strings of Apollo to soWld. Thi11 is the true nymph's
which on t.rjal found t9 be tbte mercury ofthe ' .
•, . · i ' : ' . ..
•.;
'
A TRUE LlGHT OF ALCHEMY.
' ' . ' .\ '. .. ' .
.. ?ff&' 69,. (]Qtalogue. No. 586, page 107.
__,__ ,
. ; ' .
W &.l'e now to unf'qld the operations and matters by whieh
..-e attain the •· · · . ·
· Iti$ yoasb.Ow.d weigh aad deliberate on the ptQCe89
of you .to !-ork,.else you may spenp your
m a vam searcll. . . .
· The stone you seek, we sa1d still a(lirm, Is only gold,
bronght to the perfection 1 and the art you enquire into,
ia wneieby thiS firm fOmpacted is made an unfading ting-
i bod . ' . . . ' . .. .
be perfected by the progress of nature i
for gold has no propensity to move itself so far ; but rather
clw&es to remain in its constantly abiding body. He that would
attain the essence, must·tUrn gold·to dust by art, BDd then re-
lented to mineral water, then circulated in due fire, until the
moisture is drank up,. and it be fixed. It ia then to be im-
b..ibed9ften and :recongealed; the inftw.t be sealed in.it.J
t _, • ... .. • .
o1git1zed by Coogle
mother's and fed till it beco!Des llh'<>Mg, able
to overthTow ,Its opposers : which then bemg fcrmcntci:f, must .
abide the .doom of black.t:tess, encreasing until the na-
tures rot nnd die, and then .thou to revivify it. Sublime
exalt, anil.make it return to the eljl'th, where it is to .rcmn.iu
in heat, until mournina be int9 .mirth, ·an<;! the King
is his roylif like .sparkling fln!fle,
thts Js the ·hidden &tGne, which we call our sulph.nr. Muf,t1pl)'
this so long 'tHI yo_tt come to elixir, which like the Judge of
All at tlie last · is a judge · of .spirits alL
earthliness. · · ·
it adheres to the perfection which it finds in imperfect
and (jmnges them. · But if our subject ·is gold, then must
-:find an agent to unlock it. Jf you ·to seek it in its
own kind, it will no.tcost yoo much:tp prepare it, for it is a vile
matter, defiled by a filth;t external.
· tl't<w Ruthors speak 9f this,. and those who do, obsc?re aS
muclt as .tltey can'. ·But I shall be more candid.
Attend ftrst to the mystery that lies in our fiery agent.
Believe me it is not attained by a dull lnzy artist.
. But if you are tractable, ingenious, and laborious, hear-
len tome. · · · .
The substance that we nrl!t take in hand is mineral-akin to
mcrcul'y., baked ia dtc ei.rtb by a trUcie sulphu'r. ·It is of
,;reat itlward virtue, though vile to the sight. It is Saturn's
c:hild,. do you need more ; conceive it aright, for it is our first
It is sable with argent veins appenring
intermixed in tbe'bcxly. The sulphur which is oom' witli' it,
•-toins its sparkling hue. It is wholly volatile; nothing of fixity 1
yet taken m its native crudity, it purges the superfluity of sol.
lt is of a venemous nature, and abased by many in a I)ledicinnl
way. When elements are unloosed by art, the iJJside' appear&
aud in the fire like and SI'OWS more
d;tAn any metaltie bod1. is our . dragon, .which' is,•
assailed by the stout god ot war, m ,armour of well-tempered
But all in vain, for the appearance of a new shC'fS
that Cadmus could oot abide mch might, wbicb divides his soul'
from his •. Whe.n behe1d this mighty force;
they !t ·h?",. ,thu!h with chai'!Ps ·spellro,
and hoped m time to tame hts fury. They let lum prey on the
companions of Cadmus, and found that he devbured thetn.
After the fray was over, behold a morning star was seen to'
appcnr out of the earth. Then the carcases were brought to e.
rurining spring which was near at hand, whereat the beast was
10 drink; but when the beast dre:w near to 'it, behold the waterS' '
m; if afrlkid retire, nor does the help of Vulcan avail. Then·
:tppeared Diana's <lon•s in shining attire, their pure silver wings
calmed the air, in· which the intolded dragon lost 'hss sting:
'lbc then stra.ight returns·with douds, and swallows uf.·
·o1git1zed by Coogle
Philaltthes.. 111
beast, .in which he drinks his b.elly burst ; .his colour
dtanges to black, and a foul smell fills the fountain, which arises
from the dead putrifying dragon, who finds a grave in the
but he revived through Yulcan's aid, and receive!; a soul
from heaven ; and now these which stroye together lire recon.:
ciled, and their united souls leave their bodies. ·This is the true
nJIDph's bath our lion. ·· · .
· Not to hold you longer in I ,shall unfold these alle-
gories, which may perplex the ·
Know our son of saturn ml)st be united to a ptetailine form ;,
Argent vive al<me is the Agent requisite to our work ; but
common viye avails not to our stone. l,t is dead ;
.to be by th.e sal,t of a_nd true sulphur;
wh1eh 1s Its only ' · ·
'rhe salt i.s fo).lnd in satUrn's offspring ; it is pure underneath;
to thte metal's centre; it abounds
fittmg !t the sol, lif?d divide it· into
td abui.e :with 1t .at:ter I.t u! dtsSOlvc,4. . .
in o,fAries; .this is the 1J1agic fire
of the to heat tung's bath ; thou canst prepare it in a
week. This lire lies straight closed : you are unlock it,
may be done.in and afterwards wash it in a shower or
mlver. It is·strange to see fixed '!'etal that a
fire ; nor wd. miX m flux w1th any .metal, yet
Js its course by o11r art made to retrogradE1 such power this
piercing mineral · . ·- · :
The Almighty .seals kingly work, to teach the prudent·
that the royal born here; \fhere after diligent
they are brought by of a.star. . . . . '
l<'ools searcb ou'r ·secrt¥, m out of kmd w1th
what they seek, and tberetpre lind disappointment and ruin, '
This substance i!> stellate ·and inclined to fly from fire; ·
it is ; if you ask why, this may satisfy yotJ-.
the soul of Is a magrlet to the other. ·
We call it the chil(l of saturn-our steel, our true
moon famed for its brightness-our unripe gold ;
for it is a brittle body in and to tqe touch, and tamed
by Volean. · - ·
· Ifyou ean mix the soul of it with mercury no secret
ean lie hid from thee. I need not cite authors, for 'Yith mY
own hands l have .wrought this mystery; . I have
council -
with nature, and red:uced the solid body to spftnei'S. :
and OUt of a gross body, have made' a tinging fixed
&dable. I am not alone the discoverer of th1S, many avow it,
A-rtephius it, but he the secret, saying, it
JS to be sought of God or a master.
This is tbe riddle .which has so mttch perplexed the students-
of this art : up<in reading some authors who declare the
js vile, and ao vile, it is out 'ill. the open way on
.
D1g1tized by Coogle
178 Alchemical Tretttlscs.
and filthy places, which same we must hJke for the
ground ofour art. No one can live without it ; it is applied
to sordid uses, &c. &c. All these deticriptions denote Mars
only, which we know perfectly npplies to it, either as the nails
of houses or ships, plough irons, sickles, knifes, pots ; the
examples are unlimited, npd beiug broke or worn out, the
fragments often lay cast away on duughills.
Mars t.hoeth horses-,-old stub-nails lie about scarce worth
picking up-is there any thing more vile !
. Aries is the house of Mars, wherein all artists direct you to
begin your work-:-is any thing plainer.
Belus in the turba of philOiOphers commands you to join
the Fighter with him who does not _
chose to fight:-the God
of War is Mars; assign to him Saturn in union, -who
inr..eace, kingdo!D is golden cognominate.
Then see the second figure which is placed in the philosopher's
true Rosary; (Cabala Sapientum) the King Queen
hold between them our true lunary, bearing eight flowers,
without a root ; between them both a, bird, underneath is th
Sun and Moon. ·The King holds one flower, . t_he Queen the,
other, and a third is held in the bird's beak-a star is'
on the bira's tail, which spenks our secret. 'fhe. winJied·
clenotes. Mel'qlry, joined wii-4 the stn{ry earth till ·are
volatile. ·
The ·
sages instruct the eye by the.
ear by plrup words; some of these are so plam, that allY fool
gather the menninl7 C(>uched in them it is so clear. ;
Which I have done as plain as the 'ligqt, anq refer
the studious rea.cler to it; and shall proceed here ·to tench out
waler, which few able to obtnin, for out the .s<'cret
seed of sol; therefore learn the manner of th1s wnter w1th alt
diligenc;:e, for it is the ground of o'-!r Know thctt
that metals all one ml\tter, wh1ch ts no other mercury.
On this fo.uudation i.
s the :first entrance and possibility of,
transmqtation. Hence v.-e conclude tpat our secret water
th': same matter w!t? vulgat" ·mcrcut-y. if our
wh1ch we call o.ur hvmg water, be ,hut unnpe gold, then what..,
ever mny" be <:oiiverted into gold by art, must hold such a nature
as can be mnde by art into ourargent vive i and the way to dQ
thi& is the contrivance of our art. ·
.
. If or t\n, or copper was to a real
art cause those waters to appear changed m the1t
form; t1iat any or each of all the waters named, ·might be
framed to our sopJ1ic nwrcury. ' . ·
B4t these pains, when nature has produced a watet'
featly to the artist's .which a form niay ·
be
bj-·skill, to command all our secrets. ·1
·. d.lcretore, to what Mercury wants of.
'. . . . l • ) ·.
' ,
o1git1zed by Coogle
Philalethes. 179
•nenAtruum. We grant the aud colour of both are si- ·
milar ; both nrc fluid, both metalline, each is vt>latile in fire ;
but we have in our mercury a sulphur, which is wanting to the
m('l'Cury ofthe mine : this sulphur purifies and makes the matter
fierv-yet leaves it still a water.
Water is the womb, but if it has not heat; is unapt ·for true
generation. Our body will not be reduced to sweat and to·send
torth seed, but in a circulating fire, co.mmixt by artwith mercury,
. partaking of sulphur. This sulphur must be of magnetic force.
therefore must be substantial gold, though unripe, yet
holding ofone source, both to the matter aftd form. It must be
!olatHe, as other is fixt, the one untying .the other.. There
IS no.body·m the earth but one so nearly alhed to mercurr, as
to prepare it·f(Jr our secret stone, hiding the solid·body 10 its
womb.
This I hove said ·is saturn's offspring, the secret of the magi.
and revealed by ·
.For.all the metals, though some may mix 'with argent nTe.
yetthey do not enter more than to sight, but are driven from
each otbet by and you may perceive that their centre ne-
ver was penetrated, nor either ·of altered by the other-
the cause is.*is; that the sulphur of ·perfect metals is lealed
up, and the sulphur of metals partakes of terrene frece8
>and crudities abhorred by mercury, nor will it unite with them,.
·though .it may be mixt to appearance. And ifyou first separate
you shall obtain a fluid mercury, and a crude sul-
phur whicfa hardened the humidity by congelation ; you wiU alsO
find an ahumnous salt; but all•these are too remote from the
nature ofgold. · . . . . .
It is ow mi"iural that after. the separation of its
dregs, contains a pure mercury which tan restore life to
are dead, t.hem tc> propagate .OW1l
kmd, like .to all thtnss whtch ·generate after tbetr own
likeness.
:But it contains no mlphur in save only it is congealed
by a- burning sulphur;, brittle, black, widubining veins, tlie aul•
phur by. no means metallic, yet if right, ia litde dif-
ferent from the outward hue of eommon sulphur. When the
dregs.ore removed, you have a nut like a metal, but by. tri-
turationmay be pow<lered to·duat, in which a tender soul is shut,
that rises like a vnponr.in a small fire; like quickeilver slightly
and sublimed bythe fire. This impar.ta·a penetrating
quality to our water, and makes itsbody to enter to root,.
to th,eir true first matter, w¥1 inver?ng their
htdden centre. ·It wants trUe wlphur to beJomed to 1t, 8n4 we
find it in.the bonae of .Aries; Mars only is made by this mi--
neral; ani:lthe arJist'uki.ll to go retrograde, and chan;e from a
metalto a - .
o1git1zed by Coogle
180 A.lclmnieal Trtati'les.
. Jle1'e h (J(Jr Yenits; tbe spouse of lame Vulcan, .be:kwed by
:Mars. First, ·then, cause Mars to embrace this mineral, till
both cast aside their The.metalline substance pro-
tluced, will in a short time.&hinelike beaveJt, and as a sign of
your success, you will find impressed on it a starry seal. The·
·.Almighty marks it with thjs royal stamp, its strange qua-
lities; for this is a heavenly fire; a spark ofwhtch1 once kindled,
.ca\}Ses a change in bedies from black .to brightness, 5parkling as
a g611'1,· er the.diadem t&at crownsa King. To thiS' add Venm
in due propO!'tion, Mars admires he:F beauty, and abe is known
to have g;eat. love foi him. She. is .soon inclined, allied
to Gold,. and Mars, and Diana, and she conciliates thetr love•
.Vulcan now grows jealous, and spread his net to catch the
·lovers; and grieved to find himself horned, shews .the pair en·
trapped within his net. This is not a mere fable. First observ&
}.low..Cadmll8 is..devoured by our fierce beast, after he bad
stoutly pierced him, and with overpowering might, transfixefl
.&.his terror ofmen with his spear against an oaJC. .
Observe the &tar, or sun that declares the union pf Gold witll
the his f<2Cl8S purgedlou4 all that is perfect
precipitates to the bottom. And being poured out after fusion,
•a. star appeaYS as it similar·to Mars.. Venus, though she
is contemptible of.herself, a metalline substance when
.united with Man, as if a net enfolded \hem. Thisfinejunction
'the ancient m.ystre poets have decluf:d in plain tenns to the wise.
·We conclude the soul of Saturn and of Mars are cloaely mixecl
·by and the help of Vulcan-both are volatile
nor..aretlteir·parts diviaible till the so..U of shall be fixed·
tl;ten it leaves S11turn, and yields Jilost perfect gold in the trial.
.of a true and J!OWld tiBctw"e... Bat tliie must be attained by the
·help of Venus, else they cannot be severed, no though you re-
450lved them to will continue joined. .
' Yet Diana makes a I!Cparatiou of theJP by the help of Venus. ,
Some use Diana's doves to prepare the water, :which is a tedioua
•labour,. and may be missed twice out of three times even by a
·good artist. The other most secret wa7 we commend.· Let the
most subtle vapour ofthe water, be CirCulated SO long and oft
!Sill ·the .souls of each, leaving· the grosser matter, unite and
·ascend together. You. are only to avoid doing tb.is.to an excess
.that would cause them to-coagulate. ·Two parts of Sat\lm's &on;
one of Caclmus. Plirity these eo Jongby Vulcan's aid, till the
, metalline part be purified ofita feces. Thisshall be d9ne in four
.reiterations;. and you will then aee tlle star ifyou-have worked
Eneas t9 her lover, purge them . till th&
net of Vulcan enclose them; then ·take them arld see they be
well wet with the water, and penetrated with heat ·ed moisture.
'ill the 10uls ofboth at length be glorified. This is heavenly
aew that muat be fed 110 Ion&auaot\ea• Dature reqwrea, tlu"ee·
- . - .... .
o;9,11zed by Google
Plzilalethes. 181
times at least or till seven ; ledt be led through wa'fes amd tlamelf:_
as reason shall direct, guarding the sublimntiori or burn-
ing of the tender nature, this itt to guide your fire-also know
that Mercury, which ought to begin the work1 mU'St be liquid
and white; do not with excess offire dry the moisture to a red
powder, for so the female sperm is corrupted, and will not carry
on the work. Do _D()t endeavour to tnm argent vive into a clear
transparent gum, or oil or unguent, for you lose the proportion,
and miss die true dissolution, which will oblige you to put
aside your forlofn attempt, having- departed from the line oi
reason.
Endeavour only to augntent a spirit which.is wanted in argent
vive, and then sublime the gross to. the skies, and separate
the dregs, and .when full seven times have passed, then espouse ..,:.
it unto Gold, till each hOlds the other ; thus by art, and D8'o
ture's help, is the .true maiden prepared, which being severed
from the feces, becomes a heavenly offspring, that makes the
aolid body of Sol grow soft, and dissevers it to black atoms, rots
and putrifies it, and again revives and ascend1. .
Should.lreveal all the secrets contained in the composition of
our water;_ I would be condemned by all true artists.
For God alone communicates it; all who are not .taught by
him, ntust wander in mists and errors; but he that la&bours in
study and prayer to find this truth, not for covetousness, but
in candour for wisdom's sake-such a person shall sure attain
.this wisdom, which never was before so plainly declared,
o,g,'izedbyGoogle
ALI:XANDElt SETfiO!'(.
Philo.•opllical E11ignu.
). IT fell out upon a time, when I had 11ailcd a1mf>St all my
life from the Artie Pole, to the Antartic, that by the singulat
of God·I wQS csst upon the shore of a certain great
tea, aqd although I well knew and understood the .and
pt9perties of the sea of that coast, yet I knew not wl•ether in
coaets was bred that little fish,- called ReniDM, which so
many men ofgreat and small fortunes have hitherto so studiously
ll()ught after. But whilst I was beholding tlre sweet singing .
mermaid. swimming up and down with the nymphs, and being
.,.,ear.y with my fOregoing labours, and oppresaed with divers
tlloughta, I was with the noise of waters overtaken with sleep;
aad whilst I was in a sweet sleep, there appeare<t to me a won•
derful .Won; whicn is this. ·• .
I saw Neptune, a man ofan honorable old age, forth-:
out ofour sea with his three-toothed instrument, called Tridens,
"''Vho after a friendly- salute, led me into a most pleasant Island."'
This aoodly ISland was situated towards the south, being re-
w1th all respecting the necessity and deliglit of
man. Virgil's Elisian Field might scarce compare with it. All
the banka were round about bf.set with green myrtles, cypress
trees rosemary. The green meadows were covered all over
with flowers of all sorts, both fair and sweet. The hills were
set forth with vines, olive trees, and cedar trees in a most won-
derful manDer. The woods were filled with orange lllld lemon
trees. The high ways ·were planted on both sides with bay-
trees and pomegranate-trees, woven most artificia).ly one withlD
the other, and affording a most pleasant shadow to tra--
nllers. And to be short, whatsoever ia in the whole world was
aeen there. · .
8. As I was walking, there was shewed to me by the aforCsaid
Neptune, two mines of that Uland lying \lllder a certain rock,.
the one was of gold,. the other of chalybs, or steel. Not far
from thence I W:lS brought to a meadow, in which was a peculiar
orchard with divers sorts of treea, most goodly to behold, and
the :a:est, being very many, he sbewed to me seven trees
marked out by special names ; and nm()ngst these I observed
two as c:bicfest, more eminent than the rest, one of which did
D1g1tized by Coogle
Sethon.
bear fru.it like tlte most ·and shining, and t1Je leaves
tllereof were like gold. other forth fruit that was
most white, yea, whiter thah the lillies, and the leaves thereof
were as fine silver. Now these trees were called by
Neptune, the one the tree of the the other the 4'ee oi
t.he Moon. . .
·4. In this Island, all things were at one's pleasure and com-
mand, bot one thing wau. wpnJ,.ing ; there was no water
to be had, but great ditliculty. There were indeed man)'
that endeavoured to bring it thither by pipes, and partly drey.r
it out of divers things; but their endeavours were in vain;· be.
tause in those plaees it could not be had by means o:r medium :·
and if it, were at any time had, yet it was upprofitable andpoison-
ous, unless they fetched it, as few could do, from the beams
ot' the S!ln and Mo.c>n.; and he which was in 80 doing,
could neverget ten parts ; and that water was moat
ocr(ul ; and believe for l saw it with mine eyes, and felt it.
that that water was as white as-the snow: and whilst I
t.emplating upon thewater, I was in a great wonder. · ·
5. Wherefore .Neptune, being in the meanwhile wearied,
variished away from before mine eyes, and there appeared to me
a great man, upon whose was written the nanie of Sa-
ium. This man taking the 't'essel drew ten parts of water, 8ncl
took presently of the tree o(the Sun, and put it in ; and I saw
ihe fruit of the tree consumed, and dissolved like ice in ·wnrm
jrater. 'I ofhjm; Sir, I see a wonderful thing, water
w];,e as it were pf not)ling ; I see the fruit of the tree conaumecl
in it _with a most sweet and kindly ht:at, and· wherefore_is all
this? But l!e answered me most lovingly. My 800, it.ia true..
is a thing to be wondered at ; but do not thou wonder at it,
for 80 it must be•
. .6. For this water is the water of. life, ·having power to better
the fruit' of this tree, so that afterward neither by planting or
grafti!lg, only.by ita own odour it may convert.the.
trees mto Its own bkeness. Moreover this water IS to tlus fruit
as it were a the fruit of this tree can be putrified in no-
thing but in this water, and although the fruit of it be of itself
most wonderful, ·and a "
thing of great .price; yet if it be pu-
trified in .this it by this putrefaction a salamanoer
flhiding in the fire, whose blood is more precious than any kind
(,f treasure or riches in the world, being able to make those six:
trees, which .here thou seest, fruitful, and to bring forth their
fruit sweeter than th'e honey. '· · · ·
7. But I asked, Sir, how is done ? I told thee, saitb he,
that the fruit of that tree .is living, and sweet ; and one is
now sufficed with it, but when it is .boiled in this water, a
ihousand may then be satisfied with it. I demanded moreover ;
isit boiledwith a strong fiie, and how long is it in boiling?.
. I c•, . • ••
o1git1zed by Coogle
lSi Alchemical Treatises.
Said he, that .water hath an .intrinsical fire, and ·if it be ·helped
with a continual heat, it bums three parts of its body this
body of the fruit, and there will remain but a very small paJ:4
which is scarce imaginable; but of wonderful virtue; it is
by the skilful wit of the artificer, first seven months, theJ;t ten,
in the mean time there appeared divers t)tings, and 'always
.an the fiftieth day, or thereabouts. · · ·
8. I demanded Sir, cumnot this fruit be i1t
other waters, or something be put to it? He answered,
.ia but this one water that is useftil in this country, or ,island ;
and there is no other .water can penetrate the poretl of this apple,
but this : and know 8150 that the tree of the sun hath its
ginal from this'water, which is extracted out of the beams o.f
'he sun and mooo .by a magltetic BeSides they have a
great correspondency betwixt themSelves; · but if any strange
thing be added to it, it cannot perform that which can do of
itself: . lt must therefore be left by it1;elf, and notli.i;ng
'it bot apple. This fruit after bdiiing, 'eoines be
immortal, having life and bloed, :which blood all
abe · trees bring fQrth frait the ·.same nature · with the
apple. · · · · · · · · ·· · · · I ,.
· .9. I asked him further, Sir, is this water drawn any other
way, or to be ·had eyery where ? And he saifl, it is in every
place, and no man can live without it ; it is drawn divers ways,
but that ts the best which is extracted by virtue of our chalybs,
which is in the ?elly of •. ! &aid, to what is it?.
He before Jts due bodmg 1t IS the greatest p01son, but
after $ boiling it is the greatest medicine, and yields
Jtine and twenty grains of and every grain will yield tQ
tlu!e the fruit of the tree of the sun 86+ fold. ·I asked, can it
,not be made yet better ? The philosophical ·scripture being
witness, saith he,· it may 'be exalted first to teri, tO a bun-:-
dred, then to a thou8and, and ten thousand. ·· · ·· · ··
10. I required again of him, Sir, do many kn<;>w water,
and hath it any proper out, few know
it, but all have seen it, and do see It, and love It ; It hath many
and various names; bUt its proper name is the water of our sea;
tbe water oflife' not wetting the hands.. I asked yet farther,
do 11ny u9e to any otherthings? Every ·creature, saith he,
doth use it, but ' 'fhen I asked, (loth thing grow
in it ? but he said, ofit are made all things in the \f6rld, and in
it they-li\re, but in it Iiotloling l?ropery is; thing
which mixeth itself t!) every thmg. agam, Is 1t useful
for .thing without tb? f!uit of this tree? .
not m thtil work, because 1t JS not bettered, but m tbe fruit of
the tree of the sun alone. I began to intreat him, Sir, I ·pray
nnme it to me by such a manifest name, that I may have no fur-:
fleer doubt about u. But pe cried with aloud
o1git1zed by Coogle
,,
'Sethon.. 185
. . .
· .he a9akeneti me aleep. Therefore l .could ask him n& ·
f,utber, neither would he tell me any more, neithel' clin I : tell ·
any more. Be satisfied with·these, nud believe:me. tool it is ®t·
poa&ible speak more clearly. For if ttMm doat not understand ·
these tbo11 nt never be able to comptehend the booka ·
of GC.her philosophers. · · · , ·
11. After Saturn'a unexpected and sudden departure1 11 ·new·
came upon me, then appeared to me Neptune in a
l'16Jble shape. He my present in the
of .the .HesJlel:ldes, ahe:wiDg to .xne a looking-glass, in
which I aaw all nature After the of divers
wqrda betwixt us, I gave him thanks. for his courtesies shewe4
to me ; because I .not only enter«:d into this garden, but also
Saturn's most desired discourse. But be.ca.uae by rea..
aon of SaturP,'s depart.w-e. some difficulties did yet
.remain to beenquired af\er, and searched into, I earnestly be-
:eought hip!, that by means of this happy opportunity, he would
resolve me !flY dqubts. .l:low I .h:im with these words.
Sir, Jhave read the of phiioaopbers, and they .say, that
.is qone by male and female, yet I saw in my dream
Saturn J t,be fruit .,lone of the tree oftbe'Sun into our Mercury.
I believe thee as :the master of this sea, that thou knowest
;these,things; answer my quel\t,ion, I pra_y thee. But he said,
it ia #_Ue, .my son, all'generation is done ln male and female,
. by reaaon of the of the three kingdoms
of nature, a four-footed awmal it; brought forth one way,
•nd a . Although eyes, sight,
bearing, .and qther (\Cnses, yet they are brought forth by pu-
.tre&ction_, .and place, or earth, in whidl they are pu-
'(tti6ed, ia the female. So in tl!t.is phijosophical the mother
.of this .tl.ti.Y¥ is that ,water yf thine sq often repented, and
whatsoever 1s producec:l of that, is .as worms by ,
trefaction. the philosophers have -created a phomix:
aj salamander. For if we.re done b.Y the conception of
ftO bod:ics, it wouJ4 .be a thi,ng subject to death ; but
because it re.yives it$Clf :alone, the fi:¥-mer body being de-
,Jtrored, it riscth up ana:ther .body jpcorruptible. Seeing
. ;the death of thil:tv. is else b,ut the separation of the one
from the And ao ¥- is in because
life separates i;tself by itaelf a corruptible hotly. More-
OJI,er, I asked him, Sir, are there divers things, or is there
a composition of th;ngs i;n this ? ;But 1.' said, there
is only oae thing, with which there is mixed nothing else
but the philosophical shewed w .tbee oftentimes
thy sleep, of which there must be teo parts to one of the
bOdy. · And strongly and undoubtedly believe, my sou, that
dw8e · things which . are by me and Saturn. shewed thee bf
way of dfeams, accordillJ to the in thia .
. z
o1git1zed by Coogle
186 Alchemical T1·eatises.
are not dreamt, but the very truth, which experience the
only of wjjl by the asaiatanee of God· diaco..
ver «> thee. . I ye.t further demanded Sbme of him,
but he without &JlY aoawer, after be had took hts leave of
me, departing aet me, beiug raised fr<lDl sleep, · into
101 desired region· ot Europe. And so. friendly Reader,.
let this suffice thee, which hath by me ·thus tar been fully
' .
To.God alorce.·be. praiu and glol!J.
·'
o1git1zed by Coogle
.
THE GREEN LION OF pARACELSti!• .
. -TAtd: tof tke ·dis"sol.-e
the green bon, p\rtnry and filter the solution, drnw off the fi.
in balnoo to an oiliness; this oil or residue put in a reto'r,t,
distil·away the moisture in sand with a gentle fire; · then incre&$e .
the ·fire, and the greeh being compelled by the strength ·
of the fire will yield his glue, or air. To the' caput mOrtuum.
pour its (the m9isture drawn ofF) putrify in dung or'
·balnro, and as before, and again wiJI ascend the spirits ;
force it strongly, nnd will come a tenacious oU of a (!i.
trine colour. · Upon the caput morttium pour again the first dB.
tiUed water, putrify, filter, and distil a:s before; lastly with
amoSt strong open flre, and.there will come over a bli>OOy oil, ..
whicli is ·otherwise called fire. The remaining earth reverberate
intO whitenesS, &c.-Auret' Pellerik, p. 41. · ·
. . -
.Annotations by Segerus Wcidenfeld:
1. From the receipt we observe-·that the menstruums this ·
made .of the matter of philo&ophical win«:t or
grapes, are the first of 811 menstruuma, eJ.ther .
mmer!ll or vegetable, . . · .. . . · ,
2. That tlie milky liquor or . virgin's: milkf .
incrcury, the white wine of Luily, and the glue of the
lion, called by Paracelsus the. ofthe .are sy· .
noriyJiious the red hquor, blood ot ho..,
red mercury, the philosophers sulphur, and red wme of Lully,
othen1ise by Paracels111, the bloOd o_f'the red lion,. likewise
the. acid b_y Or
furtfier elaboration, transmuted either into a simple vege_·
menstruum, or the heaven or of;PhilC?sophiCal
Wllle. ' . ·
4. ·. these·acid IQ'e to \)e distilled Ve;f
great Caution,:by reason of t\J,e of the
or of
ibis Vltr&ol Q&U$ed by the
D1g1tized by Coogle
188 .4lchemicnl Treati1t1.
5. That mineral menstruums are the beaTen, or essence- of
philosophical wine dissolved in an acid, so that having ac-
q!lired spirit, you may make tllem ez by simple
. . . .
- 6. Tliat th.e menstruums e-Ven now prepared, are presently to
\e used, lest they perish.
1. That menstruums. nrc by dissolving bodies coagulated.
8. That metallic bodies arc by these menstruums reduced into
running mercury.
, .9• That. these are called stinking !Jlet\struuma, because of their
. atinking smell. By the smell alone we easily distinguish these fn.lm
_
t'hose menstruums callec.I vegetable. Thus the unsavoury
: smelt ofthe menstruum itself proves that Morienus used the stink-
: ing menstruum. What is the smell of it, salth King Kalid, by
·.way .of question, befOre and after the MorieDus
:_
·answeretJJ, before it is made,, the .of it aod unaa-
.. VOUrr; but after the preparation. of It, It has a good scent, ac-
: cordn1g 'to that which the wise man saith: this water: resem·
. bles the unpleru;ailt smell of a body dead, and .void of life; fo:r
.·tlle 'smell of; it is m, and not unlike!o the.smelt of He
,that can wh1ten the soul, and cause It to ascend agaun,. and keep
: 1he bo·dy well, and take away all obscurity it,. aDd
, fraci the ill savottr out of it, will be able to ,infi.tse it into tbe
· body, and in the hour of conjunction exceeding miJ1lcles. will
appear, Morien. de Trans. Metal. p. 88. Geber also acknowledg-
cth himselfto have operated with n mineral menstruum, cap. 25.
Summre perfect. The first natural principles,saith he, out ofwhich
metals are procreatec.I, are the stinking spirit, that is, sulphur,
water vive, which we to be calk-d And
m another place, at the end of hts Book de Inve&ttgat. ·he goes
on ; we do by plain and open proofconclude our stone to be.no-
;thing else but a stinking spirit, and living water, which
·also call ·dry water, being· cleansed by natural decoction arid
-true propo
. rtion with such an union, that nothing can be added
.or fro!" ?t,,to which a .third ought to added fur
. the · abbrevJaUon of ·the work, that 1B1 a perfect bodJ at-
;tenuated. · . ·
· 10. That adrop, the name ofthe.Jnatter oftheiemenstruums.
· the 'philosopher! saturn, or-lead: The first matter of
lepmus body, saith Rit>1ey, is water inspissated
m·the bOW'ela of the earth. The great elixir tOr the red and for
the white, Vincentius, is of this body. whose nhme
'is adrop,· otherwise cslled philosophical lead, page 1$2. Medf4.
Plzil. Chym. · . : . . .
Our stone, saifh Atnold, in Spe?'fll,tJ :A.lcltym. ,is·. called
.which is in .Latjn in and : lO
the Tt'Ojalls dragon odopum, that 1s, p01son, Septtma Dttpos.
page 696.-_V +; Theatr. I have the
gave 1t d1vers because of the . ·
• • '•, • · • ' ,. t \ ..f • • .c •••
. .
o1git1zed by Coogle
Wtldrn/dd on •
.c;oloun ; but as to their intelltion, they had· pne nam!l .
·tbllt is, Roman gold, or adrop, or stone above Jill the stones 9f
this world, quarta dispositio Speculi, page 5f4, of the same· vo-
.)ume. Laton and Azoth are t- ·gethcr, and never asundt:'J", but
remain always joined together, but because of the <.liversity qf
colours, philosophers callt'd them· by illlmy names;
as the colours are varied and changt·d, they imposed .so many
mames; because Azoth among the Indians is gold;' among the
Hennians silver; among the Alexandrians and Macedonians
iron ; with the Greeks mercury ; with the Ht>brcws tin ; with
the Tattar. brass ; with the saturn ; aud amoug the
Latins; and especially among the Romans ognividon,. (by all.
anagram /Jono G G signifying philosophical mercury;..
or sulphur aqueum.) But tl1at none may err, I soy it hath onet
proper name, and is callt>d by .men ; and every.onet
.knows the atone, Tertta dtsp; 1. Specul. page 599, of the sam.e
volume.
·- Some'of the adepts write not adrop, but atrop; by whiclt
name they have been pleased to the matter of these men-
struums to be as it were the of all the ni01;t secret Chymy ;-
for atrop, by the of .the. letters read porta, .a
·thus Robertus Valemns m Glorta Mundt, page 80.5., That
you may attain, saith hE!, to the true foundation, 1 will oDce
again repeat it to you, 'and call it the first ]l>'le, that is, #le
of all things; it is also called the only holy ; appre-
hend 'What elements are· in it by those which are repugnant;-;:
the stone of the philosophers, of the sun, of metals, the fugi-
tive senant, the airy the Thernian stone, magnesia,
the corporal stone, marcasite, the stone of Sal Gemmte, the
stone .of children, the golden stone, the original of worldly
things,, also inversion a. flint, xidar, by :the
aame •JnTerston radtx, atrop, by mverston, porta, a .gate..;
and it hath also as many other· names, yet is but..one. onl7
thing. ' : ' '..:.
To Robertus, Lully seems to incline, who has been to
call every alteration of the azoquea:• vitriol, or maher of the mel\•
atruams ofthis kind, the first porta or gate ofthe work ; thus he
called the· dissolution of the matter the first gate. In ·our
saith he, there are three principal spir.its
wh1ch cannot ·without the consummation of their resolution be
··manifested, and they are otherwise called, tflree argent
And resolution is so often used. for the first gate of our
magistery which we declare; the said resolution is divided
into three principal partlj. The first is corporal, .and is calleil
in tlie Latin tongue, recfage, ihat is, anagrammatica!!y'facerc G.;
but by G, he means sulphur cap. 5. The. Test; p. 115.
vol. 4. Chy]ll. or our mercury, cap. '20. Pract.
170, of the same volume, The second is spiritual, c;allest
- . . . . . .·' ··... .. ..
o1git1zed by Coogle
190 .Alchemical 1'7-eatises.
b. The third is spirituai and corporal, .and called .
lJ bridrugat, &c. '
When the matter in the resolution of it black, this
blackness, for which some have called it lead, he would have w
be a sign of the first gate. In the first resolution, saith be, lies
all the danger, and thct·efore I give you notice, that you must
have the sulphurs of simple argent vives destroyed by heat, in
such manner and form, as that their sctive property 'may not
be expelled by extraneous heat, and that it may not be sepn-
rated from its moist subject, which appears wholly black, full
ofa noble Thnt blacknCis demonstrates the. sign of the
first gate leading into our magistery, and without it can no-
thing be done, because it is the fire of nature, which is to
create the stoue, and which cannot be without the
corruption of its body, cap. 28. Theor. Test. P!lie 51. vol. '·
Tb. Chym. · ·
Lnstly, he calls the distillation of this matter the first gate -
also. 'l.'he:way of prepru·ing the stony, and fermentable sp\-
l'it is, to take the jui< e of lunary, and extract the s"(eat.ot• it
"\¥ith a lilllnll and gentle fire, nnd you will have in yO\lr pC>wer
one of oar argent vives in liquor, in tl1e form of a whit;e
water, which is the ablution and pur1ation of ou1· stQile, and
its whole nature. And that is one ot the mqst principal se-
crets, and is the first gaie, as .you may undeutaxi.d by the
reasons aforesaid, &c. cap. 9. Theor. Test. 21, of
eame volume.. .
Being persuaded, by these anq the like quotation•, i
that atrop is to be written rather than adrop, because beeidestbe
blackness or philosophical lead, atrop signifies the begiuing or
'first gate of the work. .
ll. That in the adepticnl chymy are many green lions, to be
necessarily distingui!ihed one from another. .
By the first the adepts meant the crelcstialstm, governing -
wbole world. ,,,
The second is argen.t ''ive, more common to us than common
vive. ·
fhe third is called argent vivc, dissolved into a green.
colour.
The!fourth is adrop, azoquean vitriol, pllilosophers ieaq;
A fifth is the stii1king menstruum, otherwise called the gf
the green lion. . . .
A sixth .is the green lion of fools, Roman vitriol, verdi-
Sl'<'lls<', tJ:=c. · . ' .
'file seventh is extraordinary, namely, c:Ommoamer.cary
.
J2.. That there are nlso many saturn&. . . ·
: The first is c•mHnon lead, o( m.etals,
'qUently the most remote <Jf all fu our art; which to prove by the
o1git1zed by Coogle
Weidenfelll :on Paracel_sus. 19-l
of the adepts is a thing superfluous, finding
every where amongst the adepts a solemn caution for us bewal·e.
of this devourer of metals and minerals, saturn. Hare a care,
saith Ripley, to bring one witness for all, of operating with sa!"
tu:rn, because it is commonly said, eat not of the son,
ther ia defiled, and b_
elieve me, many men err in saturn,
what Aviccnna saith, ·saturn will be always saturn, yea operate
not with the earth of philosophical saturn, which the spirit of it
has despised, and left fur the worst.sulphur, &c. cap. 2. Philorcii..
paae 188. ·. · .
lfhe second is adrop, or az<>quean vitriol, before.
A thira is the first colour or blackness oftbe first work ; of.
which lower. · ,
'rile fuurth is copper, the first of metals; of which Arnold in..
Speculo Alcbym. disp. 8. page 605. vol. 4. Theat. Chym. thus : ,
Therewere, saith he; philosophers that placed our science in
seven ;·and our first planet is called Venus, t11e·second
Sutam; the 1.\!ercury,the fourth M:ars, the fifth Jupiter,the.
sixth' Luna, the seventh SOl. The generation of copper hath.
the lim place after the universal Mercury, saith Basilius, Libro 1
de rebus nat. & supernat. cap. 4_
. Of all those things, saith,Para- .
celsus, which proceed from salts, there is none more nearly allied
to-the mineral·virtue, than vitriol; the reason is, because salts are.,
and ' all minerals lie in one maS$ . and ares. Now ..
-vitriol· in' the separation of' minerals, is the last thing, to .,
wltich is immediately subsequent the gener.ation of ..
'whereof Venus_is'the first, 4. Philos. de page ·
219. And 81 httle after he satth, the Marcas1tes anli Cacby.mys .
being thm separated from the first matter of metals; then fol-
lows the nrst generatimh which is of Venus,, &c. Besides, by
the separation, whereby the nature of the marcasites and cachy-
mys are:expelled, the genermions of copper do immediately .
cur, imprintthemselves, and are coagulate4'together, because it
is the first metal after the separation of the and cachy-
mys; ·in the same book, page28l. . .
-The vitriol ofVenus being·the first ofall a(lued or joined
to the vegetable mercury the mak!ng of a<trop, is by .
Lully the 1irst male. · This·fire, saith he, is that property of the .
mercilry, whid1 you must endeavour to preserve from burning,
being the tincture vitriol, with . the vcl?etabl? mer-
cury.ought·to-be sublimed, because It lS the first male of 1t, and
is -the augmentation of our tincture, which is a addition.
in virtue and power, .when it is joined with the tincture of
SeJ ;..;..for if you know how.to extract the property of
from vitriol and salt, and make them friendly by conjunction,
which is -done by gentle sublimations, you will know one of the
greatest secrets of nature, and the true principal perfectior:.
•.cap. 92. page 202. So in many places of hla
;
o1git1zed by Coogle
t9!- .Aldlmnical Treatise•.
Testainenti he means vitriql by.w• in ·these '
_
eipecially : The the of our male, page The virtue of the
94-. 1 he virtue of of the male, page 1()8.
The heut of the page 7 '· female Y is \n
,case the ma1c, and is not so hot as the second malt", goW,
.page 73. 4o. Theat. maie also Espnnietll$
'tioneth in the of his menstruum. 'fake, he, the
winged virgin comj-,ll·tdy wasbt->d and clean&ed,
with the s)1iritual seed of the first male, &c. Sect. 58• .,__rqlllj
PJul.
. ,the better to the masculine _-nature of
Jl'\IS,. Calls it mctuiJus, a noun of the masculine gender, .a& _-
Take, saith he, tbe coralline liquor, I mean
tnat which is very dillphanous, to add a fifth part of the -
vitri.ol of venus; thein in fc)r for _
by
this means the of the.
bot the fecult..nt part of f)lts wme, the ;vnr1_ol t#
tmns ; he means the residue left ill the .()f. vitriol,
ad tliat fi_
rist ·me.tAl, m·tallUJ cli:-
apltanous, ·and t1;uly red wine, cap. 12. /)e_ Yita
ldnga. page 65_ As the adepts ;calJed v.«;;UlS fir!jt . .
ta11us primus in the masculine s0 .ll)po ,the,.y chapged .
ttimus, saturn, a .n?un of the ill\Q •
a houn of the fcmmme gender; ,&gmfy not
venus, being of 1have, &llith .
a ·dear and beloved daughter, named saturna, ,from -,vh1ch .·
daugtlter lll'e'both the white and red elixirs !lSSI,lredly p,rocreated-;
f
if'thebrefor;_yo..u clesire this mm.t a:' clt:e.r .
rom -er,:etc. · :
by nQt .alsO.tlte :
preparatton of copper, Jliat is to beperf()rllled by
vtigetahle they made it yegetable or herb, that so .
th"l•y m_
ight that which was, from that was not ·
prepared ; thus I<'lumel in his Summary : SoJ;lle unskilful m_
en• ;
and t$,e com)Jlon sijver, and mer-
cm:y, nad handle them .so ilJ, .tiJ} tP.ei'.vanish away by fume, -
th.ercb_y endcavopr f:.<? maJce J?hilosophers mercury ; but
they do Plot attam to tha!, )Vhich Is tl,te fir.st platter an_
d true
mine of the stone. 1f _they \'Vould attain to .t,Pat, and reap _
nrp• good, must to moun":'
tnm, where there is no plaiQ, .and fron;a the top downward
llold the other six, -which .,they wpl at $reat distance.
the ·top of this mountni,-t; w,Ul a triumphant
herb, which some philosophers call a some a vege-:
table, and if pure and clean broth be made thereof, the better
part of the work will be hereby accomplished, this right
.and subtile philosophical ";lUst you plnce
thus read in Chort!Uassreus, page 813..vol, 6. Theat. Chym.
o1git1zed by Coogle
JVeidenftlcl on
therefore the mountain, that you may·se-trthe vegetable, .
aatumine, plumbcous nn,d r0-ynl, also rninerul .root,
or herb; tak_
e only the jujee of it, and throw away the
-husks. · - - ·-
- It is moreover also calted green_, because that matter is as yet·
sharp and unripe, that is, not yet fixed or perfected by
!lS common gold. The j)hilosophers g'!"een lion is greeh
gold, gold vi>te, which'is not as yet bltt-Jei: irnpedect by
nature, .and for this reason_hath it d1e virtue of i"cducing all
bocUcs into their tir&t mattPrj and maki-ng those bodi<.'li'Which nrc
fixed spiritual and volatile. - T1·act. de Admp. page 5-t.7.-
h may also be called lioo, because a5 all other nnimals'give place
to a lion, .so all bodies yiekl tGthe power of vive, which
our mercury. Tract. Adt"op. page 548. This noble infant iii
<:alled green .lion, because whell it is dissolved, it is clothe-l
with a green garment. Yet out of the gret.'fllion offools (vitriol)
;8 with a vii)lent fire .extracted thu.t we call nqua
U. which the said lion ought i;o be elixirated.. 'Medulla. -
Plzzlos. page 1'39. _
· - - - ' - -
- -These things'spoken of.thegreenlion, nre also to be understood
oLadrop, being a synonymous term of too same mat-ter. 'l'ake,
saith Ripley, adrop, that is, th(l lion: Now 3$ to. adr<?P
he declared as followeth .: adrop, srutl1 he, Is gold and 10
power but not in sight, as Rhasis saith, _.rind oar gold a.nd sil'vet",
accocdiqg to the .phil<lsopbers, is oot· common gokl and silver,
tOr our goKI and silver are airy, .wh·ich in order io be well fer.. .
ought to be joined with the beloved common gold. .
Forasmuch as the philosopher saith, tliat adrop in its ·protim-
dity is . airy gold,- and adrop itself is called leprous gold. And
to these sayings Guido, the Greek philo!\Opher,
speaking of the or wenstrlllll spirit, the spirit or blood,
of the green lion, ,\\:hich is extracted out of the natural adrop
by art, he And .that _
cKtracied
of the phll<>iophers solary water, ncsemc, and luna. And in
.the same place presently ; the bQdy is the termoot ·of the
spirit, the spirit the ferment of the body, and the earth,
wherein lies the fire, dl'ies, imbibes, and fixeth the water-; and
the air_, wherein lies the water, (the air which lies in the water,
it ought to be reiid according to the doctrin'e of separatinf? the cle-
ments,) washetb, tingetl1, and pertecteth the eaxth and fire; and
so Guido's saying, that tinge and pet'fect, ought to be un-
derstood, that the stone, the menstnwm .drawn from adrop, or
the green lion, is sufficient tOr the completing of itself into an
elixir, and no ex:otick or heterogeneous matter, as be
afllrinB, iS or ought 'to be inh:oouced to it, but all the parts of it
- are and concrete, because the.philosopbet·s meaning
waa to complete that· work in .a short space above the earth,
whicn DftUre verfecteth in a year& under the
A a
D1g1tized by Coogle
.dlckemical T1'etrti4U1
_earth. UD&kilfully therefore according to the opinion of the
philosophers, saith, do they that seek to obtain
from common silver and gold for our body.-
For that matter, in which is argent vive clean and pure, not
(most, is ill read,) thoroughly brought to perfuction by nature, is,
as Guido affirms, after purification, a thousand tiDies
better than the bodies of sol and luna vulgarly decocted by the
natural heat of the sun. LulllJ 4' Guidon, page 928•
.A certain philosopher sit.ith, he goeson of the same
adrop; a fume, (white} is drawn from its own mmes, which if
rightly gathered; and again sprinkled upon its own mint.>s, will
there make a fixation, and so the true elixir will in a short
apace of time be prQduced from it. And certainly without. those
liquors or spirits, that is, the water and oil of mercury, (men•
&truum,) this alchymieal body which is neutral or adrop, is not
purged; and that is the alchymical body, which is called le-
prous bod)', that is, black, at the beginning of the work in whicll,
saith V in his Speculum Naturale, are gold and silver
in power, !Uld not in aspect; which in the bowels of is also
airy gold, to which no man can attain, except the unclean body
be first cleansed, which is without doubt after its comple'tB
dealbation,' and then it is a thousand times better than are the
.bodies of common and silver decocted by natural heat.
first matter ofth1s leprous body is a viscous water inspisaat;-
the bowels of the earth• . Of tha body, according tQ the
jJidgment of Vincentius, is made the great elixir for the red
and white, the nanie whereof is adrop, otherwise called the
philosophe.-s black lead, out of which Raymund comlll8Dda us to
extract an oil ofa golden colour, or such like: Raym\lnd ac¥fa;,
but oil.is not necessary in the 'egetable work,_ namely, for
the mceratton of the vegetable because solutions and
agulations are there soon Plade; at\d ifyou can .it frotn
its phleglll, and after that find out the secrets of it;
you will in thirty days be to perfect the philosophersstone;
this oil makes n1edicines, (tinctures) penetrable, sOciable, and
to all bodies, and ·in the world there is not a greater
secret. Medul. Pkil. page lSI. ·
·
. ll.ip1ey hath here recited various synonima's ofthis ndrop. We
fQr a pme will follow the green lion by the way of philosophical
lead, as we are directed by Ripley in very words: First, un•
derstand, Avicenna saith, that gold and silver are in lead
by power, .and by sight, and tl1ey are left by nature
halfcocted, and therefOre that ought be pmfectly supphed
· by which is left impe1fect by nature, and by way of a fer.;
ment digesting and cQcting that which is crude ; for a
D_tent take perfect gold,'for a little, not-patda
tzm; of then fixed substance, those fixed bodtes w1U draw and
wnvert much of bodies not fixed t9 the.perfection of gold
o1git1zed by Coogle
1/Teidenfdtl. on 19!1
silver. And· thus will·art help nature, that little space. of
time tbat may be done above the earth, which is not in a thou..
years done under the earth. And by this means you wiU
understand, how lead contains in it the greatest secret& of thit
art ; fur hath in it argent vive, clean, pure, not
brought by nature to perfection. And this argent vive ·is the
basis of our precious me<;fic;ine, well .for .
metalhc as human bodJes, so as to be the ehxJr of life, curmg
; which the philosopher meant, . saying! there ia
Jn mercury whatsoever wise men seek. From·thJs are the
soul, body, spirit, and tincture drawn; moreover also in this
mercury U; the philo8opbers fire, always Qnrning equally within
the vessel, and not withont. It hath also a great attractiv*'
virtue and power in dissolving sol and luna, and reducing the
same into their first matter. With thi& mercury are to be di&O
wlved the of the perfect bodies in congealing the
said mercurial spirit, &c. Pujnlla., page But have a cat:e that
you operate:not with common bec:ause commonly it is
said, eat not ofd1e son, whose mother is corrupted, and lielieve,
that many men err in (latum. Hear what Avicenn saitb,
saturn .will be always satum ; yea operate not with the earth
of philosophical satum, which the spirit ofit has despised, and
linquished for the worst sulphur. Operate only with the fume
of it to congeal mercury, yet not as fools, but as the. philO&O-
phers do, and you -
will ·have a very good work. P/Ul. cap. 2.
;age.188. The whole composition we call our lead ; the qua..
lity the splendor proceeds from sol an<i bana, and in
the$e·are out menstruums whereWith we calcine perfect bodies
but no body is,an ingredient, one
wb1ch IS by the philosophers commonly called green .lion,.
which is the means of joining·the tinctut"es between sol and·
Juna with'perfection, as Geber himselfattesteth, Libra; +2. par•
tar, page a . To this thing to you, you.must know,.
that it is one ofthose, which are of the seven days planets, and
themeanest ofthe same, out of whose body is artificially ex-
tfactcd blood, and· a vapotous humor, which is called the blood .
ef the green lion, from. which •is produced a. water, called
white of:an egg, and vitre, may-.dew, and by ma:uy other.
R&meil, llfhich ·to avoid· prolixity, we now omit. Phil. cap. 8.
page 190. .
·· ·Green lion, adrop, philosophical lead, antimony,
airy mercury-, &c. •re synonima's of one and tbe same
matter. This matter being dissolvecl in distilled vinegari
and again itispissated' into a gum, in taste like alum, is _
by'
Ripley in the Descriptioa of the antecedent menstruum in J:rfflmb.
·ealled Lolly's Vitriol of Azoth, ·or Vitriolum :
Lullyin praetica cap. 9. page 159. vol.4.o.. Th.·Chym.
lilakei-alllenetraum ofB. C; D. By B. be meawt \he•id·IJ•.
o1git1zed by Coogle
·· A.lchmiictd Trcalistt. .
lion, oreorimioD 8l'gent·vive, which·as he says·elsew-here, is.more.
· common to· men, than vulgar argent vive. - B. saith he, page
153. of the said prattiea, signifies argent '·i:ve, which is a Clillll-
mon sub$tance eonsistiug mevery cotruptible body, as appean:
by the property of it, &c. c.. he wmmoQ.nitre. C.
saitb he, signi6E"S salt peter, which halh a commCiln acid nature,
.:tAu like argent vive by the propcl'ty ·of its strong acid uature;
pngc 154. 4 vol. aforesaid. By D.· he uJtdenrood gum adrop,
Jnade of tfte· green lion. }). saitl1- Qe,
'Vitriol, which-eerrupts and C4'D(ound• aU d1at is of the nature
and being of eoetmoR argent vi.ve. Itt •he same
C. and D: he caHs t'he'purer medittms, cap. 58. Thoor. Test. pnge
96· You must know,- son, suith' he, .our buth, you may wash tlte
nature of (phil.) argent ''ive so, as nature could nev-er do, lha1
is, ta make argent vive' a ci>mplcte elixir. But ar-
gent vive and metil.ls being both in nature, and in your work,
extremes, and extremes not being able to join themselves, with-
out the virtue of a mruc.Ue dM!position, which is between tlle
softnesS of argent vive, and the hardue96 of Ill€
fal, bec:iause there,
is- by reason ofi that middle a nawrsl
liVhich is the cause of conjunction- between body aBd spirit, as
k is in ·every thing gena·ated, .or in capacity of beilig geuerated.
Ja Dature are many mediums, whereof two nre more pure, and
more viscous, the green azoqueall vitriols, with the_
stony nature,
-wllich is the salt and nat-ure of stones. · By the help my son, of.
this contemptible matter is eW. stoae, whi<lh we lun·e 10 Dnlch·
-.ought for, procreated, &c. . · · · ·
With the other of these mediums, C. the stony Juttare1 sab pe-
ter, spit ofpeter, or niter, we have no business atpresent 1 but be-
ing soHcitoas of D. gum ndrop, or the azoque11n vitriol of Lully,·
it will be w.ortb while to consult Lully himself; of which the phi-·
losopher, cap.·59.·Thea&-. Testament!, thus : 89n, saith he, the
azoquean lion,- whieh i& called azoquean vi.riol, is by nature
made ofthe petuliar sabstanee of eommOft argent vive, .wb.iclt i11·
the natllFal. root, from whence metal is procf'eated in its awn
.-,inc. By common argent vivc, he meant not the vulgar but
phjlosop}uca1 argent vive, the natural rdot as well ef·metals a10
tninerals. When we say commott mercury; saith he, we-speak.
Qftbat which tlle phllosophen undentand; aRd .when we name
the vulgar, we speak of that which is known to the cmmtry-
Jtlen, and sold hi el1ops.. Cap.l. Mercuriorum; .which the
f<lllowing synonyms's of tltis mercttry, namely, ch8!0S; naturt'r
origo; gret'n argent vive, unguent, oil, paswre·aud liqtior.
'of@'ent nltte; do also tes1ifY iil cap. Test.. page 7
vol. 4·. Th. Chym. · · _
. This common argent vive, or green must 'be '
from itS superfluities, before the azoquean vitriol of Lv.lly; or
_ae adrop ·of Ripley,. tau be made. of YOR ·must .-itb
o1git1zed by Coogle
JVcidtnfeld on· Paracel:Sus. l97
lle, my son, being a .student" of-this science," he· stedfasf, ·iin<i
not search after this or that, .this art is not perfected
with many;things; and therefore we tell you, there is but one
Qn)y stone,. that is ·-sulphur, and .one only medicine, nrtmely, ·
Ute compositioo of sulphur, to which nothing is· to be .added,
onlY. the terrestrial and phlegmatic . superfluities taken away,
because they are and .ought· to be separated from ·our argent
vive, .which is more common to· men, than · vulgllr arg-ent vive,
and is of greater price, merit, .and stronger union· of nature,
ti·om which and the first forms ofit, it is neeel!l!ary to sepni'ate,·
by the known deg1·ees of separation, nil that belongs nob' to=
the· sal armoninc &c• . Cap. 18. Theor. page
SS. voJ. ·"- Th. Chym. \Ve sav there is bnt one only 'phil&-:
&Ophical stOne, .volatile not yet Axed, ol' matter ef a menstrn-
llm, extracted from · the things aforesaid· by our magistery.
And therefore when it come» newly into the world, you mnst:
not add :my; other powder, or nny other water, .nor ·any thing·
incongruous to it, more than t'tlat, .wllich is born in it;·
.radical to its own nature, and the mother of it,- whiCh feed(
and carried it, tbat is sulphurt which fQnned the stone ·in a:
oelcstinl But befOre you extract (distilr it,·(the stone)i
thoroughly purge a8d cleanle it, from aU ·its phlegmatic,;
ten:estr'.inl, and corruptible infirmities; which .'•are .
to 1ts nature, .because they are the ;death· of tt', w1th whtch:
it. is sunonncJ:d, which mortify . its ,
Cap. 7.Theor. ft-sL page 20, of the sal(l vol. · It JS to_be
.Hgently-noted, that one of the ctwo aforesaid natural . principles;
sulphur and argent ·vive, is. n1ore truly natural .in the whole;
and tlu:Qugh, the whole substance of it, ;as wetl ·within as with-
Gut, .and that is the pure .sujphur, hot 'and ·introducing
its tbat'is, which· the ·form ·of a n1etal pur-
sues a pore effect.. , But the other argent vive is unmt'tural;
thst.is inwardly natural, and outwardly against nature.; .but.
the internal natural part is proper, and also· t-o
itself, because it comes by -its own nature, but 'the extern-
al
part is added to it by.aecident, and is to be- nllturally separaood
.fi.·om it after the corruption (putrefaction) ·of ·it; wherefore
is manifest that:such argent vive is not· in the whole substqr:ICe
ofit·natural; in the firSt reception of.it, nor is depurated to the
full, unless it be depurated by.the ingenuity ofart. c. ·p.-
Codi,cilli. . · ;
As to tllis purifkation ot;Mgent vivc, or the green lion, Rip-
ley thus: wherefore saith het this mercury,: the corrosive
of commo.n vitriol,. ·is by Rayluund called, our MJ'e against na,;.
tui-e ; the same .thing happens: in .s<>me ·measure
to this mercury, (the acidity of vitriol;) a ·tO 'the ot)ler
(vegetable mercury, or green lion,) which is our m1tura! fire.
For both QJ tbe.lll· are hidd.en in the middfe or.·eenlre of
D•git•zed by Coogle
Tnalisea.
t,beir that is, between the phlegmatic wntct on ·one
sjde, ,nd teJ:reatrial crall8itude on the otlier sido, nor are they.
obtained without the great industry o£ philosophy, and so
pt\rtS 4)8.11 us nothing, except only their middle.
For saith Raymond, we take neither of the first prm-
because they are too simple, nor of the last, becau&e
toQ gro_, and feculent, but_
only of the middle; wherein is
tincture, and true oil, scparBted from unclean ierrestreity,
phlegmatic ·w.ter. TherefOre aaith Raymond thus: tbe.
moisture, iJ the near matterofour physical argclat vive,
page Alchym. · . . ·
or the green lion, is purified by c:ommon vitriol,
as th\1$ :. Wben the argent -.ive is put in a dsy vitriolated
VJPlll_., (spirit. of vitriol) which is a sbup water, it is pre-
d.itwolvQd by the incision arid penetrotioD, caued by the
being manifestly strong, and in dis&olving, is converied·
the of terre&trinl vitriol, not taking a metaHi<;t nor
a 1Qrm, as appears after die etaporatlon of
the IPld the oongelation of it in tJ.e furm .of yel-.
lAw; which y.ello!IVIle88 proceeds ftom 'the sllar.p liul-
Rlwf:0\18 whkh was beyond measure mixed mtLe,
&tUd w;ater by atoms, with an homogeneous u.niversality and
wbicb 11implicity was taken bound by the·saidt
Wjth the alteratiOD of the light, .clarity, andr
iuw &c. c.,. 89. Theor. Tes&. 1.41. vol
4. T{l: Son, the thick 'Vi&riolated· vapoura from
ill .iJ very sharp arid pontick; and
the p$rts of sulphur, and argent \live being de.
penetrating, tingeth that purifk-d mauer, c:OD-
it into the form of that vitriolated and yellow: ter•
VJlpotJr, which is mixed with. them. Wherefore wh•
is manifest, that is, this is the great gate,
fPe. WlTC$1rjal virtues muSt not excel ifte. crelestial,
91.\ tbe wnt.xwy, if you "fill have the thing desired,
f:$.. Tlw9r. TeS. page 187, of the snme volume. Y-ou may re-
that.you would put nothing.with the
Qf the nwnstl·uum) but whlc\1 proceeded from • •Q
begiuning of ita mixtion ; iQr if add an incongmous
it..will prcaently corrupt«!(l by the incongruous nature;
•qr yP.U eyer have that which you woul4 have. · Gold 8ild
silver, and mercury arc dissolved in our menstrual, becauSe
it.ppJ1kipntcs with arid viCinity of the· first
n.B.ture, aud.from. hence will yon t!'Xtract a white fume, whiCH
pur eu.lphur.; aDd the gieen lion; hich is your unguerit;
tPd tbe stinking \\llter, whic,h· ia our. argent vive. But ·it ilt
fot the gr.een lion to he·tlaoroughly 4issolved in the ,
!K}Ul\ fw.t.ens, or stinking ·wAter, be1(>re· y.ou can have
Mi4 wlW:h.iaour .alllphur, which. eulphui' ·i& inQeed sh•
o1git1zed by Coogle
1Veidenfeld ·011 Parizcelws• 199
.me way dissolved from the body, congealing the spirit in the
form of a dry water, which we call stone, and the highest me-
dium of all our work, which is the conncxion and
of both natures, that is, of body and. spirit. Son, this wa--
ter is called aqua or .if you had rather ignisaqua, tlmt
undeclinable word, because it burns gold and silver better thaA
elementary fire can do, .and because it containf1 in it heat of a
telTestrinl nature, which dis5olves without violence, whiclk
common tire cannot do. Wherefore we enjoin you to make the
of the hottest can get in na!Ure, and yon
w1ll have a hot water, wh1ch dJSSOlveth all thlngt, cap. 59.
Tlteor. Test. page f8, of the same volume, .
These sayings Ripley comprehends in short, thus; these wordS",
eaith he, may serve a wise man in order to know and acquire
the green lion. .But this noble infant is called green lion,
cause being dissolved, it is clothed in a green garment. Yet out
of the green lion fools, vitriol, is b,r
tire, that walier which we -call aqua fortiS, spmt of v1trtol;, lll
which . the said lion ought .t:O be elixirated. For ali'
alchymical gold is of corrosives, &c. page 189,
duHa Phil. ·
This argent vive, green lion, philosophers lead, &c.
Jmrified with vitriol, must be further matured or calcined into a
red colour, minium, lead calcined, .sericon, &c. E. that is, vitrio-
lated azoth, page 15. Theor, Test. the fourth medium or prin-
ciple is a substance produced from its mine, and in it, 'more .near
to the nature of metals, which is by some called calcantis, and
azoth vitreus, mercury vitriolated, or azoquean vitriol, which iS
earth and mine of and is by another name called
Jirisius,.ofshining white and red within, black and green openJy;
haviilg the colour of a venomoUs lizard, immediat.ely gene-
t•at,ed out of argent vive, the nmtter aforesaid impregnarecl
with the said hot and dry sulphurans vapour (of common vitriol'
in its resolution ·congealed into a liZard, in , which vi-
triolated' is the form and species of 'the stinking spirit in ita
mixtion, mineral heat of which is multiplied, which is .the
life of metal, and is signified byE. cap. s. Theor. Te8tam. page
)2. volume+. Theat. Cbym. And a little after : in the work of
nature is argent vive, ·but 'not such as is found upon the earth;
nor will be, till it befirst turned into an npostemated and veno-
Pious blood. In the same place ; you must know, son, that by
art lind nature argent vive is congealed by an acute water, un-
derstand therefore philosophically, because if were not sharp
and acute, it could not penetinte, which is ·the first action ht
dissolution, after which dissolution it is returned into am nposte-
inated blood, by the mutation of its own nature into another.
Son, th-ere are two things, which pught io stick together by the
weement of one the ot.hef impure.;· tht- iru·
. .
o1git1zed by Coogle
.Alchemical Treatists.
pure. recedes, 6re, being by reason of its cOOTaption
the other remaius.in firft; because of its. purity, being transmut,.
ed. into blood, and this is our argent vive, and our whole sa- ·.
cret, clothed .with a tripartite garme,lt, .that is,. black,
nnd reu, nnd that alone we wnnt for the purpose of .our
tery, argent vivc containing all that is for a quintes-
sence. There is in mercury whatsoever wise men seek ; for
un,dcr the shadow .Qf it lies a fifth snbitance ; foe the substance
of it is pttre and and all of it is nothing else but
gold and silver, not .common mt:tal3, but airy, being in mercury;
or the green liotJ, .mel.tcu and £Used within and without by vir,
tue of the 6re agaiust nature, and afterw.ard11 purified and 'Ser
ti·om all its ol'lgio.al .blemish and poll.ution.; tor that gold
is in('onlbustibh.•, remains fused and liquid, imparts its
gv!dcn·l}f\.ture iu mercury, 62. Theor. Test. page
10.3. volume' 4. Th. Chym. · , . ' '
Ont of this philosophi.cal minium, calcined lead, or sericon
the.adepts t.hei.a• menstnrums; for exam•
pk. the first ofthis kind in Nwnb. 59. Sonietinies they dissolved
this.1ainium vineg.r., wbich bei.rlg drawl) off, they
it into gum adrop, or Lully's azoqucan vitriol, out ofwhicb
tht'f theu distiUcd the l'tinking menstruum, or menstrullm footens,
in Numb. 60. Sometimes they dissolved adrop per deliquium
.firl\t., and theu .distillt..J it. The thirteenth way of practising, saith
Ripley, as jt here appenr-s, is very cwious, and that is
tun.1: rubified in a glass vessel stopped, to prevent
respiration, with a strong and continual tire, till it becomes red.
Take therefi,re that rubified saturn, and pour a good quantity
of distilled r;incgar upon it, and shake it very often every day
for a month, (a week) then separate the -vipegar by a filLer,
and take only that which is clear without fwces, nnd put it in
.balneo to distil, and after the separation of the vinegar, you
-will find at the bottom of the vessel a white or sky-coloured.
water, which take, and being put in a bladder five double, to
keep out the water, disstllve it in balneo into .a criStaUilie water;
put that water in a distillat:ory, and if will, aeparate the
elements ti·om it, or distil the dissolved water, which rectify ·
.a circulatory, and the earth :which remained in the bottom, hi
the disulliltion, .calcine, till it grows like a .sponge, and then is it
1:ery fit to re-assume its IQereul'y separated from it, .that a new
generation may be made, and a son b,;ought .fOrth, -which is
called king of fife, and which is oliO great in the love of all the
cap. 17. Philos. page220. Of.this work.Ripley
mention·; cap. 4. of the same book, page 194, saymg, there J&
moreovt·r another work in gum produced by vinegar from red
saturn, out of whi!::h is the separation of the elements made, -
af.
tcr it is dissolved in bladders. The menstruums of gum adrop;
wN,cb wa:y DU}de; Wf(l'e
o1git1zed by Coogle
1Peidetifeld on Paracelsua. 201
cnnse of the stinking smC'lt! This water, saith Ripley, hath a
most sharp taste, and partly also a stinking smell, and therefore
is called stinking menstruum. Assa freticfa also is so called from
the smell, which our mercury hath when it is newly extractedout
of its polluted body, because that smell is like nssa fietida, ac•
cording to the philosopher, who saith ; that stink is worst be-
tore the preparation of this water, which after the circulating of
it into a quintessence, and good preparation, it is pleasant and
very delectable, and becomes a medicine against the leprosy, and
all other diseases, without which gold vive, ron can never make
the truepotable gold, which is the elixir of.1ife and metals, Adrop.
Phil. page 54-8. vol. 6. Theat Chym.
These menstruums they called white fitme, because of their
white and opake colour. It is also called white fume, saith Ripley,
nor without cause,. for in distillation a white· fume goeth out
first, before the red tincture, which ascending into the alem-
bick, makes the glass white as milk, from whence it is also call-
ed lac virgi11is, or virgin's milk. In the same place; out of the
·red fume or red tincture, otherwise called the blood of the green
lion, the adepts did by rectification alone prepare two mercuries.
namely, red and white. ' Upon this occasion, saith Ripley, I will
teach you a general ntle; if you would make the white.elixir•
you must of necessity divide your tincture, the blood of the
green lion, into two whereof one must be kept for the red
work, but the other distilled with a gentle fire ; and you will
obtain a white water, which is our white tincture, our eagle.
our mercury and virgin's milk. When you have these two tinc-
tures, or the white and red mercury, you will be able to practise
upon their own earth, or upon the calx of metals ; for the phi-
losophers say, ·we need not care what substance the earth is of, &c...
Adr. ·Phil. p. 55+. vol. 6. Theat. Chemicum.
Let us therefore desist from further pursuit o£ the said gree11
lion, wbich we have pursued through the meads and forest of
Diana, through the way of philosophical satu111, even·to the
vine7ards of philosophy. This most pleasant place is allowed the
disctples of this art, to recreate themselves here, after so much·
pains and sweat, dangers of fortune and life, exercising the work
efwomen, and the sports ofchildren, being content with the mast
red blood of the lion, and eating the white or red grapes of
.Diana, the wine of which being is the mostsecret secret,
of all tlnl' more secret Chymy; as being the white or red wine of
Lolly, the nectar of th,e ancienq, and their only desire, the pe-
culiar refreshment ofthe adopted sons ; but the heart-breaking,
and stumbling-block of the scornful and ignorant.
:ab
o1git1zed by Coogle
Operis Mago Cabbtllistici et Theosop,ici.
BY GEORGE VoN WELLJNG.-·Hamlmrgk, ·1735.
--
OF THE HEAVENLY MERCURY•
. THAT the um·vcrsal mt>r:cury, which ·is also salt and stdpll.ur,
is to be found in all things even in the minutest atoms, anp
is the spirit and upholder of all things ; must not be unknown
to those who are versed in the true art ol separating.
this mercury is separated ti·om any body, there remains only
Jl gross 158ltisb sulphur, which is without life. Its form is won:-
dei-ful, in all creatures; the earthly fire makes it fly from. ,Ul
visible or invisible ; it is uot easily.deseribed, but is•. well
known to the wise. Whoever knows this wonderful phamix
by her feathers, may readily find and prepare the cordi where-
by this universal, · though rarely-seen bird, may be
').'o those who have a· knowledge of nature, thi» is suffimeat
information ; yet we say that the colours of these feathers are
like tlie rainbow, yellow; green, and red, blended in
according to their origin and share ofthe light. It is properly
¢all'ed the sttlphur of the liE$ht ofnature, the spirit and soul of all
things ; without this nothmg can be performed in the secret
philosophy, and whoever has it, will not want the and
wlphur of the wise, and may then easily accomplish the art :
fur the perpetual workings of nature, will shew the fire which is
Rec-E'SSary, and its degrees. . .
We bltVe described the heavenly mercury, and how ne,cessary
it is ·tn the tincture or stone of the wise ; in the salt
sulphur a11d mercury; it is verily not to be found. Without tltit
Jlcavenly mercur.y, no being·on earth can exist ; not that we
understand by the spirit of a vegetable animal or the
heavenly me:reury. These are mercuries comparatively, accord-
ing to their pbysieal principles,. in whiCh the heavenly mercurr
is concealed in an rerial water, like a "highly rectified spirtt
Y;hich divides a body in the minutest particles, but floes not
melt it into its first matter ; for that melting is only possible to
the heavenly mercury, which CaJl diSIOlve all bodies without
violence to their nature and properties.
From this the sophistical alchemist& may learn how useleu
tltcil- e.issolvents are; that tear, re&d, aad destroy bodies-
o1git1zed by Coogle
Von 1Jte
'lling. · !OJ
To the true dissolvent belongs this wonderful mercury, which is
also salt and sulphur : the sort of a net that is to be used to
catch this bird, is a high question, because it appears now in the
form of a ipirit; then as a smoke or moisture as flour, salt.
and sulphur. An experienced bird...catcher is always diligel10.
to have at hand good call-birds, of the same sort as those he
intends to (:atch, and places them among the. flock. Of gold,
only you can make gold ; but of lead you can make mercury
by a ferment : like loves its like. By contrary things, nothing
js to be obtained; one thing gives this---another, that.-
Whosoever baa this mercury, as it is congealed in its own
minera, the same has a magnet through which he may obtain
his object, and catch this bird, according to his pleasure, whether
it is in the form of a spirit, smoke, damp, or else as the
Jaspes. Rev. 21. v. 11. · ·
That nothing can be obtained in the high philosophy without
the universal mercury, is well known ; but this mercury is sci-
.dom described by the wise, except in such wonderful enigmas,
that it requires divine inspiration to understand them with
•ll their d.Uferent views and meanings. It is a universal
.,}vent ; in its first form a fire, which cannot be ')Vith$tood by
earthly bodies ; but when it is by the artist's hand to the
form of congealed ice: it is a wonderful secret in meQ.Icipe, .an<J
.ofgreat power. It is not found such a congealed
icy form, but is easily broujtht ·thereto, if what was said of the
magnet has been understood: Whosoever has this
be has the true saline water which is necessary to dissolve the
trtu! for highest aurum potabile. When
·gold JB dissolved therein, it is also potable ; but is only a
.apecific, and the same may be said. of iuver, and the other
metals.
o1git1zed by Coogle
...
A LETTER
To the Disciples of Hermes, coutaiuin'
SIX PRINCIPAL KEYS qf the Secret Plziwsoplry. ·
By a FRENCH ADEPT,
Jrhose nttme is concealed in the anagram, :Pivee sicut ardent S--
. • . ' , • I , .. • I •
IF I writ this letter to persuade those the ofour
Iosophy, who imagine that' it ·is <>nly a nin idea, and a mere
paradox, I wohltl t'o1low the example of many in thi&
great art ;' I would endeavour to convince those &Ort ·of wits of
their errors, by.demonstrating to theni the solidness of the prin-
c}ples of our science supported by lhe lnws, and by the opera•
ttons of nature, 'I would speak but slightly of what 00.
longs io the practice ; but as r .Mve ·a quite different
and that I writEronly for you, t)le wise disciples of Hennes, and
·true ·sons ofthe art, my only intention is to serve you as a guide
in a 1my so difficult to be Our practice is in efreot
n tnick in the sands, where on'e riught to conduct one's .self ra,.-
ther by the •
North Star'; than by 4flY' footstep&· which are leCil
imprinted there. The confusion of the tracks, which an almoit
infinite number of people have }eft there, ·is so great, and one
finds so.man.Y: different paths,. lead into
most frightful desarts, that 1t 1s almost Iinposslb1e not to 11tray
from .the ·true road, which only the sages favopred by !leaven
have happily known bow to find out and to disco,·er. ' ' · · ··
This confusion stops the srins of art at once; some in the be-
.ginning, ·others in the middle of this philosophical course,
some ev'Cn when they apprbach 'near the end ofthis painful jour-
ney,- and whe# they begin to discover the happy end of their
underta}dng ; ·but petceive not, tllat the little of the way
which remains for them·to ·is the most difficult. They know
not that the envious 'of their ·good fortune have dug ditches and
j)recipices in the midille of the way; and thai for of know.;
1ngthe secret windings, die wise avoid those dangerous
snares, they unhappilylose all the advantage which they bad got,
the time, 'When they imagirfed t? have all the
ddfic'Ulties. ·· ' · · ··· ' .· · · :t • .. . · .· .
l vow sincerely to you, that the practice of our art is the most
. •• • ' ·. - : , ' • ': : f ' : . : ..., .' ; ''t
o.git•zed by Coogle
!05
difficult thing of tllC world, l)ot in regard to operations, but
in respect of the difficulties which are in' it, ·to learn it distinctlr
from the books of the philosophers; for if on one side it is called
with reasolJ the play qf children, on the other it requires in
those who search for by their labour, a,nd their
of tbc prjnciples, and of the operations of
Jlature ·in the three but particularly in the mineral and
metallic kind. 'It is a great to tind out the true. .
is the SlJ.bject of;our yoq must for this pierce thr9ugh
a oi¥cure va1ls, wherewith .it h8Ji been spread;.qver ;.
mi,tst it l.>y its proper pame, a\Do,ttg a million of
names, the have
it ; Y;
. ·mus.t lJ.nder..tnnd all tl1e of it,.anq
judge _
of all ' the degrees· pf perfe.s:tioq, the art en,.
pab,le ofgiving tq it; you m'U!!t kl).ow the of.the wise.
which is the qnly agent which open, sublime, purify, an<J
the ·to be into w•ter ; you m_).lst tor.
jnto · diyine . squrfe .pf which
of. .
; you must know bow t<? con:veq pur mto
an incombustible oil, by the entire sol4ti0n of bqdy,
whenpe it its original; and to effect this, ypu make
Pte of.the elements, the separation, J!,nfl the f€
7llnioll
pf the pfhlciples ; yo!l must learn to know pqw to
thereof' )Vhip! p1ercury, a citrine mercury 1-you must
lix this mercury, 'Jioprisb it witJt its own blood, to thE; that
it may be 1nt9 the fixt sulphur of the philosophers.
These are the fundatqental ppints of pur art ; tl1e rest of
is found taught in the books of the philoso;-
pheJ,'s, that we have no need of an explanation. . ,
· As are (or reigns) ip,nature, so therp
!U:e'also three medicines in our which make thr<:e differe.qt
workS 'iq' the practice, and which . qevertpeless but
(liffercnt 4egrees, which raise our elixir to its highest.per-
fection.' important of works, are
by all philosop}lers reserved under the lcey of the secret, to the
end tlltlf mysteries of our p9ilosopby may
not be re.veal.ed to the profane ;-bpt to you who are the
of the science, and can undcrstaud langpage of' the
w1se, the locks shall be opened, and y()u l1ave the
keys of . the precj,ous of nature and of art, if y0u
:Spply all your ·mind to undet:StiUlding what I do_
to tell you, in . terms as.intelltgible as "is necessary' for those,
are predestinated as you are, to the knowledge of these
mysteries. · wil.l put into your bands keys,
you may enter mto the sanctuary of ph1losophy,
open all its recesses, and arrive at the undcritanding of the most
·
o1git1zed by Coogle
.Alchemical 7'reatises.
The First Ke!J.
The first key is, that which opens the dark prisons, in whicll
the sulphur is shut up; this is it which knows how to extract
the- seed out of the body, and which forms the stone of the
philosophers, by the conjunction of the male with the female;
df the· spirit with the body ; of sulphur with mercury. Hermes
· Las intmife5tly demonstrated the operation of this first key, by
these words : in the caverns of the metals there is l1idden, the
Stone which is venerable, · bright in oolour, a mind sublime,
and an open sea. This stone has a bright glittering, it con-
'thitis a spirit of a sublime original, it is the sea of the wise, in
•hich they fish for their mysteryons fish. The same philoso-
pher does still more pa-rticularly take notice of the nativity of
this admirable he. : .the. shall
of the fire, and. shall reJOICe m his mamage, and the bidden
It is a _king with
''t;ho h&S hts nativity tn the fire, who IS pleased With the umon of
the spouse, which rs given to him. It is this union wbi9b maktll
Dl&nifeat that which before was hidden. · · "
·· But Wore ' I !? any further, I have a counsel to ·give you,
wiH be of- no 'small advantage to you; that is, to re::-
ilect; that tbe operations of each orthe three works, having a '
great dealof·analogy and relation to one another ; the philos()-
phers do designedly speak in equivocal terms, to the erid
those who have riot lynx's eyes, may pursue wrong, and be
m
;tbis'labyrinth, from whence it 18 very bard to get out. In
eft'ect, when one imagines,.that they speak of one wprk, they
treat of another ;· take heed, therefore, not to be de-
cei•ed herein ; for it is a truth, that in each work the wise artist
ought to 'dissolve. the body with the spiri_t; he oft'.
whiten the h!ack, and rubify the 'Yhite ; yet It 1$
properly m the first operation, that the WJse artxst oft' the
head of the black dragon, and of the raven. Herme8 says,
that it is from thence that our art takes its begipning. · What is
of the crow, is the beginning of this art. Consider,
it·is by the separation of the black, ·foul, and stinking fume of
the blackest black, thatour astral, white, ·and resplendent stone
iSformed, which containeth in its veins the ofthe pelican;
it is at this first purification of the stone, and at this shining
whiteness; that the first key ofthe first work is ended. · · ···
. ' . . . . .
Tile Second Key.
The second key dissolves the compound, ot the stone, and
begins the separation of the in
o1git1zed by Coogle
Six Keys. 201
'er ; this ofthe elements is not made bul by raisin§
up the subtile $11d pure parts above tl1e thiCk and terrestrial
parts. He who knows how to sublime the stone philosophically;
justly deserves the name of a philosopher, since he knows the
fire of the wise, Js the ollly instrument, which can work
this sublimation. No philosopher' has ever openly revealed
this fire, and this powerthl agent, wnich works all the
wonders of the art ; he who. shall not understand it, and 11ot
know how to distinguish it by the characters wherewith I have
endeavoured to point it out in .the discourse of Eudoxus and
·Pyropbilus, ought to make a stand here, and pray to God t:O
make it clear to him ; for the knowledge of this 'great
is rather a gift of heaven, than a light acquired by the force .of
; let him, nevertheless, read the writings of the philo
losophers ; let him and above all let l1im pray ; there
is which may not in the end be made clear by work,
meditation, and prayer. ..
Without the sublimation of the stone, the· CQnversion of the
and the of the principles is impossible
this conversion, which makes water of earth, air of water•
and are of air' is the only way whereby our mercury can
be prepared. Apply yourself then to know this secret
dissolves the stone naturally, and without viole;w:e, and
it dissolve into. water in the great of wise, by the
distillation which is made by the rays ofthesun, and ofthe moon.
is in this manner that the stone, which according to Hermes,
is vine ofthe wise, becomes their wine, which by the opera-
tions of art, produces their rectified oflife, .and their most
vinegar. This father of our -philospphy crys out COI11'
this mystery ; 0 blessed watery fo,"'ll, wl1ich dissolvest
the elements ! The elements of the stone c:ould not be. dis-.
solv.ed, 'but by this water.wholly divine ; nor could a..
be .made of it, but after a proportioned digestion
and putrefaction, at which the second key of the first· work
.is elided.
'/'he Thi·l'd Key.
. The:tbird key comprehends itself alone a train or
eperations, than all the rest together. The philosophers have
.poken very little of it, .seeing the perfection.of our
depends thereon; thesincerestthemselves, as Artephius,.Trevisan.
Flamel, have passed in silence'the.preparations of our mercnry,
and there is hardly one found, who has not feigned instead..of
loriFt and. JDC?St important of the
tions of our pracuce. With a destgn to lend you a hand
part ofthe way, which you llave to go, where for want oflight It
o;9,11zed by Google
!0& .Alcllemical -Treati&el.
ie impossible to follow the trlle toad, I will my·
self more than the philosopher!! have done, 'on this third key,
or at least I will follow in ·an otdet thnt which they have said of
this subject so confusedly, that without the inspiration of HeaYen,
or without the help of a faithtul friend, one remains undoubtedly
in this lnbyrinth, without being able to find .a happy deliverance
thence. I mil sure that you who are the true sons of the
science, '\\·ill receive a very great satisfaction in the explaiiting of
these hidden which ,regard the separation; nnd the
purification·of the principles of our · which is made
by a perfect dissolution and glprification of the body, whence •
it had its nativity, and by the intimate union of the soul
with its body, of whom spirit is the only tie which
works this conjunction s this is the intention, and the essential
point . of the operations of this key, which· terminate at
the generation of a new substanoo, infinitely nobler than
the first. .
After that the wise artist ha'S made .a spring of living water
come out ofthe atone, that he has pressed out the juice ofthe vine
of the philosophers, ·and that he has made their wine, he ought
to take notice, that in this homogenous sobstaTI:ee, which.
under the form ofwater, tha-e nrethree different substances,
and three natural principletJ of all bodies: salt, sulphur, and
mercury, which are the spirit, the soul, and the body,
UaoRgh they appear pure and perfectly united toge'the'r, there
atiU WI\Uts much of their being 80 when b' distillation
we dmw the water., which is the !!Oul end · the spirit, die
body remains in the bottom of the vessel like a dead, black, and
ureggy earth, which nevertheless is not to be in
our Sl.tbject there is not which is not good. The philOsopher,
John i?ontanus, protests, that the very superfluities of the stone
arc conwrted into a true essence; that he '\\·ho pretends to sepa-
rate any thing from our subject, knows nothing in philosoph)•,
ud .that.all which therein ofsuperfluous, tmolean, and
in fine, the whole substance of the compound is made pel"-
fect by the action ofour fire. This advice opens the eyes of
those, who to make au exaet purification of the elements, and
ofthe principles, persuade themselves, that they must only take
the subtile, and cast away the heavy ; but the sons of the sci-
ence ought notto be ignorant, t.llat the'fire, tmd the stiJi>hur are
bidden in the centre of the ·earth, aud that you muat wash·it
exactly with its spirit, to extract·out of it the balm,· viz. the
nxcd salt, which is tae blood of our stone. This is the· essen..
tial mystery of this operation, which is not accomplished till af..
. 'ter a convenient digestion, and a slow distillation. Follow
then, ye·sons ofart, the command which the truth-telling Hermee
gives ye, who says in this place : But with this watery soul, we
,td.'t our YiDt'g!\r, that we tnay possess the sulphureous form•
o1git1zed by Coogle
Sjx Keys.
far \il•lum dte .comp6tmd is dissolved, it is the key of
You know that nothing is more contrary than fire and water;--
bt.tt yet tee wise artist must make peace between the ,enemies,
who at the bottom (or radically) love one unothcr Tehemcntly.
Cosmopolite hns told the manner thereof in a few words ;_ the
things th«efore being.purged, make fit;o-nnd water to be £rjends,-
which they will eusily do in their earth which had ascended with
them. Be then Etttt•ntive on this point, moisten .the
earth with iu water, and you will obtain what you se('k. Must
1101 the body be dissolved b.y the wateJe aud tlte ea1-th be pcne-,
trated with its humidity oo b.e mnde pr.oper fo•·
to the p.bilOiiophers, Ute is Eve; t,he body is
they .ought to be for the of tlteir spe-
cies. Hermes ,says the .same thing in other fQr water.
the .st,rougcst nature, whil'h . jjlnd ex¢itc,s the
ned nature in tlte body., is, it. these
wo substances, w\tich are .of.the &a.me natw·.e, put ,of two diffe-
rent scxEW, enlbcace OO(l v.nother with the-same lov,.e, and the
&ame satUitaaiQn. as the male and the female, and asceud
dbly together. leaving but a little in tlte bottom of the
v:essel.; that the soul, .the spirit, .and the body; after an
exact purification, appear at last united under
noble and more perfect form than it was before,
and as different from its first liquid form, tbe alcohol of
wine exactly rectified, and acuated wjth its salt, is different
from the-substance of the wine from whence# has
shis comparison is not only very fi.tting, ,but i,t furthcm1q1·e
the son!> of scieD;ce a of tij.e opel'lltipns of this
third key, · . . .
Our water is a liNiltg ,spJ·ing, ;wl1ich co,me,s out pf stone,
by a .oatJM"al miracle of our pj1ilosophy. The pf all
the which iss)Aeth out of this stone. It is who
,hath this great J-le further,
that this is the foundation of our · T)le pbilp99pl
.give it many tQr they <:;tll it some-
times water of life, &ametime$ ojl,
ing to the diJferent degrees qf prqparption, or to thG
.diverse effects, which it (:npable ,of pr9(lucipg. '· et I kt
know, that it is properly called the vincgqr of the
·and the distillation pl this divine liq,or there
-the same thing, .as in that of commop vmego.r;-you may
xom. this dfalV a great instruction ; the water Jllld tlle phlegpl
.Sc.end fit5t; the oily suh!>tance, w:hich the of our
water comes the It is this middle
IUld water, which in .the pf the philo-
sophical child, the office of the f1ennes l!lakcs us
.take notice 9fit by w9rds: the indif-
.ferent uggpent, which fire, is t4e the froccs anfl
water. He is nut content to give these lights to his scholars,
(:C
o1git1zed by Coogle
.A.lchtrnical 'l'rtatists.
lie siiows further inohis imar&gdine table, in what maimer they
dllgbt to conduct in this operation. You shall separate
tire earth from the fire, the subtile from the thick, sweetly, and
With great sl.ill. Take carl! above all things not to smother the .
:fire of the ertrth by the waters of the deluge. This separa•
tioi:J, or rather thi-s extraction, must be done with a great deal
ofi'udgment.
. t is therefore necessary to dissolve the body entirely, tO
extract ftll its humidity from which contains this precious sul-
phur, this balm of nature, aud this wonderful unguent, •ith-
• out which you ought not to hope ever to see in your vessel this
blaekness so desired by all the philosophers. Reduce then the
whole compound into water, and make a perfect union of'the
volatile with the fixed ; it is a precept of Senior, which deserves
you should give attention to The hishest fulll(>., says he;
ought to be reduced to the lowest, and the divine water ,js the 0
ling descending from Heaven, it is the reducer of the soul ·td
its b'ody, which it at length revives. The balm of life is hia
in these unclean f12ees ; you ought to wash them with this celes-
iia.i water, until yoti have removed awar
ihcm, and then yt)ur ·water shall be ammaW wtth fier1
essence; whieh works nll the wonders of our art. I can:not give
a better c01tnsel about it than that of the great Trisrnegistus i
you most dri'v
.e away from the water, the fume which is u1>01i it;
the blackness from the tinguent, and death from the freces.--.:.
Bu.t the only means to iiucceed in this operation· is taught you
by the same philosopher, who mids immediately ; and this by
8issolntion, which being done, we have ·the greatest philoso-
phy, andthe secret ofall secrets: . · .
· But that you may not be dece1ved With the term of the eom..
I will tell yo'l!t that 'the philosophers have two 110rts of
compounds. . 'fhe first is the compound of nature J it is that
'\thereof I .hnve spoke in the first key ; for it is nature which
)nitkes it, ln manner incomprehensibleto the artist; who does
ilothiitg but leml a hand to nature, ' by the adhibition of external
Ht!ngs, · the means of which she forth and produces
th1s ndm1rable compouJld. 0
·The second ts the compound of
iirt ; it is ·the wise inun who· makett it by the U'ition of
the fixed . the perfectly tonjoined widi all the
dence wh1ch can be acqmred by the.lights of a profound
sophy, · The compoimd of art is pot altogether the· same in
t·he j;ccond, as · in tbe third work; yet ' it· is ahmfs tire
artist who makeS it. Oeber defines it a 11'rixture of vi\oe
and sulphur, that is to sayt- volutite and the ftted, which
on orie another are .volatilized nnd &xetl reciprotally into ·
npertect fixity. Consider the' example of nature, ybu will. see
that the eartn will never prOdnce ·fi·uit, if it be not penetrated
with its bwnidity, and that the humidity 1tould temain
. ".. ...
Digitized byGoogle
•
Six Keys. 211
barren, i( it were not and fixed by the c!ryneSI
ef the earth.
You ought then to be certain, that one cannot have any gooft
success in our art ; if you ·clo not in the first work purify
the serpent, born of the slime of tbe eal'th. If do nQt
whiten these foul nnd black freces, to separate from the
white sulphur, the sal-armoniac of the wise, which is their chaste
Diana, who washes he!'self in the bath. All this Jn)'stery
is but the extraction of the fixed salt of ottr eompound, jh
which the whole energy ·of our mercury consists. The water.
which ascends by distiliation, carries up with it a part of thfa
fiery salt ; so that the affusion ofthe water on the body reiterated
many times, impregnates, and fertilizes our mereurj.
and makes it fitting to be fixed, which is the end·of the seeond
work. One cannot better explain this truth, than flermes·.
done by these words : when I saw that the water began by
grees to become thicker and harder, I did rejoice, for I
knew 1 should find what I sought for. · . : .
Though you might have but a very indiftl>rent kno'!ledge of
our art, wh!_lt I am going to tell you will be more than suf..
ficient, to make you apprehend, that all the operations of thia
which put an end to the first work; are. no .other than to
digest, d!stil; cohobate, dissolve, separate, and conjoin, the
whole witp and patience. Thus you will have not
only an entire extraction of the juice of vine of the wise;
htlt' you will possess the true watet- of and
l'let you how, that the more you shall rectify
. .iit, and the
you shall work '!Jpon it, the more virtue it
ac9uire; philos6p,h!!rs have npt· it: the· nam¢
water of bfe, but becaus.e it ·gtvcs tife to'the,metals. Jt JS
properly called the great L?lnaria, because its'-brightness
with it • .They als? it a sulphureous a
the vrsoous hunudrty, and the most sharp vmegar of
philosophers, $tc. · · · , ·
· It is not.without reason that the this mer...
liquqr the nalfte qf a ·pontic water, and of a most sha!l?
vinegar. ' Its exuberant.; pnnticity is the true character of its
vit1ue. .'I;here happen!l al!!9 in its distillation, as I have
feady tWng which happens· in that of
The ph,legm arise first, 'the sulphureous nnd the
saline ascend the last ; separate the phlegin from the water,
unite dle- and the the rpercury
p:hur,' an«t yqu·shall at last the you will
the and rubjfy swan.' · ·· · · 1
' • •
.Sin.c!e l only to 7e . of
I will to y9.u one secret, wh1cb wdl not find entirelr
in the 'books of the philosophers. · &me of them only say, that
of. ·liquor they make ·merturiet, ·the ·•ne white,·
o1git1zed by Coogle
Alchemical Treatises.
·
.
.the other 1'00. Flame! has said more particularly, tlmt cme
must make use of the citrinc mercury, to make the imbibitions w
:.t.Qe red ; he ghrero t0 the sons of an, not ·to be deceived
._in this point ; he assures you nkio, tl1nt he hud therein been
llimself deceived, if Abraham the Jew had not informed him of
Other have tltat the white mercury is
bath of the moon, and the red mercury it; the bath of
..the sun ; but there nrc none who have bem1 willil1g to show dis-
:#nctly .to the of the science, by whut way they may g<.>t
.:'hese two mercuries; if you apprehended me well, you lmvc this
alrettdy cleared \I.P to you. The lnnavia is the white
;mercury, tho sharp vinegar is the red mercury; but the bet-
.t4l" 4o determine these two mercuries, feed them with flesh of
own species; the bfood of inno(!ents, whose throats are
that ia w say, $he spirits of the L>ooi.cs, arc tbe bath whe1·e
.t.he sun nnd moon go to batll theml!Clvcs. .
I have unfolded to you a great mystery, if yon retlect well
on it ; the philosophers, who spoken thereof, have passce
over this important point very slightly. Cosmopolite has very
"':ittily mentioned it by an ingenious allegory, speaking of
ofmercury : this will be dom·, says he, if you shall
gjvc .oar old man .gold ·and silver to swallow, that he copstlme
and at length lle also dying be burnt. He makes an end
ofdescribing. the whole ID1lgi.stcry in the&e terms ; lei his ashes be
strowcd into the water ; boil i' it is enough, and you have
medi¢inc to cure the leprosy. You must not be ignorant, that.
old man is our mercury, that this name agrees with hint,
because he is the first matter o£ aU the metals; the same phi- .
1osopher says, $hat he is their .water,- to which he gives the
of steel, and of tile loadstone, and he adds for a greater
ofwhat I am about to discover to yon : ifgold cou-
ples with iAi.elevcn times, it sends forth its seed, is. weakened
to death; the cluuybE! conceives and begets a son.more
glorious than the father. llettold then a great mystery, which 1
:rQvcal to· you· withoutm1y enigma; thi$.is tbe secret. of the
which contain the two tinctures. Keep them sepa-
and do aot confuund their species, ..for fear 1bey should·
bp_get a monstrous lineage. . . . . .
.. !not only speak to you more intelligibly than atny. pbi:losophe»
doJlC, . but I also reveal to you all is the mpst
in the pract;ice .of our art; if you meditate .thereon,
if apply ym.w·self to,Uildcrstand it well; but: an. if
to light& which lgive you, .I iD .no wi,se
doubt, but you wilf obtain what you seek. for; and.ifY9U come
ll">t.to knowledge.,. by the way which I have poimed qut
l am well .assurecl that .you JW)ll hardly at
your by rea,dipg the philosophers. Therefore de,spair
; _ .*(;t. of.the· liquor of. the
o1git1zed by Coogle
Six Keys. 218
·wbich contains.nll which is nec:essary fer the· work ' it is hid· ·
under tbc stone; strike upon it with the rod of magic :fire,
and a clear fountain will ill6uc out of it ; do aftcrw1n·ds w; I
shewn . you, -prepare the bath of tbe king l'ith the
bloocl of the und you will have the animated mer•
cury of the wise, which lOiies its \•irtuc, if you ktq) it in
a: vessel well doSed. Hermes says, that there is so much
sympathy between the purified bodies and the tbM
quit one another when they are united wgether ;-
because tbls Ul)ion rescml>lei that of the soul with the gloritied
'body, which fluth tcll11 us, that there shall be no more
paration nor death.. Because the spirittl desire to be in the cleansed
bodies, but baying had them, they enliven them, nnd dwell in
them. You see by this the merit oftbis precious liquor, to which
tbe philosophers have gh:cn more than a thousand different
nruncs ; it is the water of life ofthe wise, water of Diana, the
great lunaria, the water of argent vive ; . it is our mercury,
nur incombustible oil, which in the cold is congealed like
ice, and is melted with heat like butter. Hermes Calls it the
foliated earth, or the earth of leaves, not without a great deal
of ; for if you well obserYC, it i& ali Jeavy; in a worlf.
.t is the most clear tountain, which Count Trevisan makes
tion of; in fine, it is the brrcat alkahest which radically diuoTves
the metals ; it is the true pe1·manent water, which after having
radically dissolved them, .is inseparably united to them, and in•
a:eascs the weight and the tincture.
Tlte Fourth Key. , ' ·
The fourth key ofthe art, is the- entrance ofthe second work;
it is that wbich redllces our watP.r into earth ; there is but thia.·
enly water in the wocld, which by a bare boiling can be con-
verted into earth, bec:aua&the mercury of the wise carries in it&
centre its own sulphur, whidl coogttlates it. The terrification
of the spirit ia ,the only operation of this work ; boil.then
with patieq,ce; ifyou have proeeeded weU, yon will not be a long ·
time without seeing the marks of this coagulation, .and if they
.appelll' not in :titeir time, they will never appear ; because it is
an undo111bted sign, that you ·have failed in some essential
thing in. the first operations; for to corporify the spirit, which
is our mercury, you mU&t·ha\'e well di8$0lved the body mwhich
sulphur, which coaguiates the mercury, is inclot*l. Herme&
that oar· mercurial 'Wilter shall obtain all the virtues
wbich.the pbil010phers attribute to it, when it shall be changed
· into eArth. · lta fOrce! will be entire, if it shall be converted
-- A& etU"U. for its fertility; the land of
o1git1zed by Coogle
Sit
. pJ'Olniie: of the' wiie,·,wh<) knowiug how to .make the dew or
)leaven fall .upon it, make it produce fruits of
pdce. Cosmopolite very well exprt"SSeS the adTantagcs of
dlis blessed earth ; bewlio knGWs how to congeal water in
aad to joiD . a spirit with it, truly find n thing a thou-
.. Jand times more precious tban gold, and ev¢ry thing.
comas near the worth .'!f this.earth, and this spirit; petfectly
bound together accord•og.to the rules of our art; they are the
tl'qe and tho tr!)e sulphur of the philosophers, the Jiv.;.
ing male,. and the living female, who seed which
®ly .ca.n beget a son more illustrious than his pqrents. Then
. diligently this precious eal'th, moisten it often with itf.
pwq humidity, dry it ns often, and you will not less
virtues, than its weight,. and its fertility.
Tile Fifth Key.
, The fitih .k,ey of our work·is the fermentation of the stone
•ith the perfect body, to make thereof medicine of t4e thir4
erder. I will say nothing in particular of t4e of th41
'p,urd work ; except, that the petfect body is necessary ltiaveq
fir our p1We ; that the spirit ought to make the 1;mion of
paste with the leaven ; in the same mannet' ns wa'ter moistens
the meat, and dissolves the leaven to, compose a fermented
paste fit to make .bread. This comparison is very proper;- ·
Hermes first made it, saying; for as a paste cannot be fermented
without a ferment,. so when you shall l1ave sublimed, cleansed,
separated the fouln.ess from the freces; when wouldj9in
iq them, and make the earth,
. p1ay h!l . On the subject·Of
here tl,w whole wa.k, and·shcwa
tpat w lf1l0kt
. l11mp the paste becomes all leaven, by
the lj.Cttou whu:h has been to, it; so
cQnfecti.oll bccome5 by this operation a leaven
l?rop<tf w ' matter, and .to 10\Jltipjy it e•eB
well bQW made, ;ou
you to kc,p among d.te matters,. whicft
qur .. paite. Do Rot :
Uut baktll's .put lnortf
tl}Hu and.more water,tban llle lealen aad ]'leal
. '?f are rules yoa .OUJJbt to . .1a .the
v;hQle llla.-ve w.ven
-prin8ntll Bo\m?i_, alJ the :which ne¢EI8$8ry ·
sppedluOl&l to tell you 1110re J
about wakh 'plri:IoJ
o1git1zed by Coogle
.. 215
tibphen ha-te been less reserved, than bu the first, *hit:&. -are the-
foundations of the art. .
Ti.e Sixth Keif.
The. sixth key tci\fhes multiplicati<ln of the by
the reiteration of the same whith ·but iri.
and shutting, dissolving and . imbibing
drying; the virtues Of the 6tone aug;. .
mented. As tny design has not been to describe enttt'ely the
practice of three medi'cines, but only to instruct you in the
most importnnt · ci>ncerning the prepal'adop pf
f'!ry, which the over in silence, tJ1
Jude these from tbf! profane, Much are only fut the
,vi'se I '!ill no longer upon this l'oin!; I \Vill ·tell·
:r.ou nothmg more of whllt relntell to the prOjection of the
Clicine, the success you. expect. not the!eon•..:o.;.
1have not you very full mstmct1ons but on the thu-d key;
because it rontaios a long tmin of which, though
and natural, a great understanding ofthe laws of
natute, and oftbe of our matter, as well as a pe:fa::t
knowledge of and of the different of helltJ
;,hich are fitting·fur these operations. · ·
- I have conducted you by the &tralght way without My
ing; snd if ydu have. well mindl!d the road which ·I ·
pointed you oat, I am sure that yoo will gosttnigbt to the end
withoutstril.ying. Take this in··good part from me in the deSigt!
which I had orsparing you a thousand Inhours; arid a thousand
troubles, I i!' this J?&inful .
for want of an asststance, ·.such as tlus wh1ch I giVe you m thi&
letter, which comes fl'Om a sincere heart, and a tender aft'ectioll
for &II the trae of ·
the scien-ce. I should much bewail you,
if like me, after hnving knoMl the true matter, you should
ilpenlliifteen years entirely in work, in sU1dy, and in
without being able to exhact oltt of the stone; the precious juice
which it iheloses in its boaom, for of knowing thesecret fire
of the which makes to run out of this· plnnt (dry and wi;.
thered in appearance) a water ·wttich vlets not the hands, and
1rhich by a magical union ofthe dry water of the sea ofthe wise, .
is dissolved into ·a viscous watc:r., into a me1;cui'ialliquor1 · which
is the beginning, the foundation, and the key ofour art; convertt
. separate, and purity the elements as I have taught you, and you
will possess the true mercury ofthe philosophers, which will give
you the fixed sulphur, and the universal m€
dicine. · ·
But I give you notice, that after you shaH be arrived at the
knowledge of the secret fire of the wise, yet still you shall not at-
fain your point at' first career. I have ened many yeal's h1
. . . '
o1git1zed by Coogle
216 Alchf'lnical Trtatises.
the way whic\ rem:1ins to be to arrive at tl1e mystcri01•
fountain where the king bathes himself, is mnde y.oung ngain,.
and retakes a new life exempt from all sorts of infirmiti(!S. Be.,.
aides this you must know Jlow to purify, to bent, und to animate
the royal bath; it is to lend you a hand in this secret way, that I
:hove expatiated on the third key, where all these operations are
described. I twish with all my heart, instructions"' Ii"h
I hnve given you, may make'you go directly to the end. tut
remember, ye sons of the &eience, that the knowledge of ma-
gistery comet rather by the inspiration of heaven, than from
the Hghtiwbich we can get by ounclves. 'fhis truth is acknow-
ledgetl Qy all it is for that reason that it is.
. enough to wot·k ; pray daily, read good books, and ;medttate
ltight and day on the operations of nature, and ou what she
JJlDY be able when she is ru.sistcd by the help ofour art, and
by mean& you will succeed without doubt in your undL>ftnk·
ing. This is all which l had to say to you in this letter. I was
DOt willing to make you 1t1ch a long discourse as the mutter seemed
to <kmand ; neither have I told you any thing but wJ1ot is
tiol to oQl art • sp that jfJpu know our stone, which is ·the only
matter of our stone, an if yon have the understanding of our
fire whieh is both sep-et and natural, you have dte keys of the
art, and you can calcine our stone; not by the .:ommon cnlcina-.
tion which is made by the violence of fire, but by a philosophical
calcination whieh is purely natunal. .
Yet observe this with the Jll06t enlightened philosophers, that
&here is this difference between the common calcination which il$
made by the force of tire. the natural calcination ; that the
first tlestroy$ body, and consumes the greatest part of its ra-
dical humidity ; but the aecond dOff not only pretet-ve the humi1
dity pf J,Jte Qody in it, but still tt considerabll aug..
ments it.
Experiencp will gi"eyou knoJVledge in the practice of this great
truth, )ViU iq eWcct find tliat this phil050phical
tion, whic}l sublimes di!ttils the stone in calcining it, much
augments its humidity ; the TeJIIOil is, that the igneous spirit of
natural fire is corporUied in the substanCCfi which ore anar
logous to it. Our atQpe is an aatral..fire, which sympathizes with
the natural fire, and wbich 8$ a true sallllJlander reeeives its nae
tivity, is nourished and grows in the elementary fire, which
{;eQJl1etrically proportioned to · ·
o1git1zed by Coogle
SIR GEORGE RIPLEY'S
Twe-lve Gates of Alchemy,
(ABRIDGED.)
--
0 bygh yncomprehensyb)e and gloryous Mageste,
Whose luminos bemes obtundyth our speculation;
Oi1e-hode in substance, 0 Tryne bode in Deite,
Of hicrarchycall jubylestes the gratulant gloryfycation ;
0 puryfyer ofsoules and puer perpetuation;
0 deVIaunt fro danger, 0 drawer most deboner ; .
:Fro thys envyos valey ofvanyte, 0 our Exalter.
0 power, 0 wysdom, 0 goodness inexplycable;
Ruppot·t me, tecb,me, ana be my1Governour,
That never my lyvyng be to thee ,dysplycable,
.But that I aquyte me to thee as a trew •
Att thys b'egynnyng gt>od Lord .here 'my' prayer ·
;
Be nygh with grace for to enforce my wyll,
Graunt well that I may my entent fulfyll. , .
In the begynnyng when thou.madyst all.of nought,
A globose mater and darke under eonfusyon,
By thee Begynner mervelously was · ·
Cotiteynyng tu,\uraHy all.thyngs witboute dyvy!iyon,
Of whych .tiJ.Oll madyst in six dayes dere ; .
As Genesys apertly doth recorde ·. · . ·. ·
Then Heavynand &-th perfeytyd were wyth thy word.
So thorow thy wyll and powet.• owte of one mase
Confusyd was made.aUthyngs that being ys: ·
Butyn thy glory afore.as maker thou was, ·
Now ys and shall bewythout end I :
.And puryfyed sowls upp to thy blys ·. ·
Shall come & thys may be one,
For the declaryng.of our Stone. .
For as ofone mase was made all thyng,
Rygbt soe must hyt in our practyse be, .
All our secrets of.one Image must spryng ;
In phylosophers. bokes therefore who lust tQ
p d . . .
o1git1zed by Coogle
!IS Alchemical Treatises,
stone ys callyd the Jesse world one and three•
Magnesia also of SulpJnrre and Mercury,. .
Propotionat by nature most perfytly•.
'thys stone alsoe tell thee 1 due,
Is the vapour of potentyaU,
. How tl1ou shall geu byt thou must-beware:
Fol' invysibie is truly thys menstrull : .
· Howbehytt with the aeeorld watel'
lly seperatyorr of elements yt may appeare,
1'o syght in forme o{ clee:re. •
Of our mcnstru.e by labom exuberate
And wyth hyt may be made sulphure of nat11M
If itt be well and kyndly at:wate;
And eyrc:ulate into·a spryt pnre.
Then to dyssolve thou must be sure
Thy base wyth hyt in dyvers wysc,
As thou know by thy practyse.
TilE FIRST GATg
OJ ..
Cak.irtat:i<>n is !he pllrgatyo1l ofour st<>neo, '
Restauryng also ofhys natural! :beate;
Of radycali moystute it lesyth liolle;
soluc.ioB·into our.stone most
phdo!l(>p8y I you bebyte,.- .
Do not the eomyri gyse, ·
Wyth s'bl'phare·and salts prepltl'af in dpers "frY'S'!"
with OOI'Fosyves nor with fire alone,
Nor .with vynege:F nor water
Ne,her' wit1rthe vapour of lede ow stolle-
Is to ou'f intente :
All they fo ealcyne wliych so be bent
Fro thys hartl styeJtce witlidraw thepe
Till they our beater understoDde.
For by such calcyn1n.g theyre bodyes be sh.enf,l
Wbydi m()ystuPe of oli:r st:oJte f
Therefore when powdei be breRtt
Dry as .ask:vs of tre or hone,
Of such calx then ;,yn we none, · ..·
For moysture we multiply radycall, ·
In calcynyng, mynysbyng none M aJI.,
o1git1zed by Coogle
. ·)
.•.
• T'wel't;e Gates.
.ARd for a &Urc ground of our trew calcynaeyon,
Woorch wyttyly kyndc only with ·kypdc;
For kynd to kynde hath appetyble inclynacyon ;
Who knoweth not thys yo knowledge is bUt blynd:
He may fOrth wander as myfi:t doth the WJDd;
W oting nev.
.:er wyth
. ,perfytncs
.. where J,o
Because he qmnot coi:lscte ou.r words arygnt.
And we make .calxes unctious bOth whyte and red,
Qf.three degrCE!!' or our base be pcrfyt ; ·
;Fluxyble 811 wex, ells stood they Iyttle in sted ;
By processe as p,bylosophers wrytc,
A yere we take or more for
For in !esse space our calxe wyll not be made, ·
Able to tayne with colour whych wyll not yade,.
Ifthe :water be equaU .in proporcyon
'fo the erthe whych here in dew
Of hym shall a new burgyon ;
Both whyte 10 pure tyncture,
in the .fyre shall e:ver endure;
K_yll than the q\lyck. ded -,ewe,
Make Try11.yte unyte wytho1,1t any stfJYe.
Thys ys the best and the surest
For here ys lest Jlf the part spyrytuall, ·
ll1e better t,herefore shall be solucyon ;
*fhen yfthou dyd it wyth wate.rsniall,
Thync erth over ilotyn whych losy.th all :
'rake heede t.heretOr.e to po.tte.rs loome,
And make yoa never to nesli thy
Thus under the moystureof the
And uader the temperate hete ofthe sor,tne,
').'by elementi,ihalbe 80ne, · ·
.
And then .thow hast the mli.istery wone ;
Th,mke God thy workc was then begon ;
Fore there thow hast one token trew,
Whych fyrst in blacknes to thee wyll
THE SECOND GATE.
·: : . . .
Of Splution.
yet I trow thou understandyst not utterly
·The very secrett of phylosopers dyssolucion ;
Therefore conceve me I COilncell thee wyttyly ;
For I wyll tell thee trew1y wythout delusyon ;
Our solucyon ys cause of our congclacyon ; .
the dissolucyon on the one syde corporall
Causyth congelacyon on the other side spyrytuaiL
"
219
.. .
•..
....
o1git1zed by Coogle
AlcTwnical Treatisea..
And dyssolvc into water whych weytytb no bnnd,
For when the erth ys integrally yucynerat;
Then ys the water congclyd, thys wulcrstond ; ·
For the,elements be so concatenut, '
That when the fro hys fyrst fOrme ys alterate :
A new forme ys inducyd immediutely, ·
For nothyng being wvthout aU fo:rme ys utterly.
And here a secret to tl1ee I wyll dysclose, ·
"\\7hych ys the ground of our secrets all ;·
And yf thou hytnot know thou shalt bat Jose
Thy labour and costs both great and small,
Take hede therefore in errour that thou not fall t
The more thyne erth and the Jesse thy water be,
1.'be rather and better solucyon shall thou see.
Behold how yse to water doth relent,
, And so hyt must, for water hyt was before ; ·
Ryght soe 11gayne to water our erth is bent,
Ana water thereby congelyd for evermore, .
For after all pbylosophers wbycb ever was bore :
Every mettall was ons water mynera11, .
Thereforewyth water they tume to water all.
And in oneglasse.must be done all thys thyng,
LJ.ke to an egg in shape, and closvd well, ,
'1 hen must you the mesure offyryng; .
The whych unknowen thy warke ys lost ech dele,
Lett never thy glasse be hotter then thow may feele:
And suffer ;;tyll in thy bare hand to holde .
For dread of losyng as philosophers have the told.
Yett to my doctryne furthermore intend,
Beware thy glasse thou never opyn ne me;Ve
Fro thy begynnyng, tyll thou have made an end;
If thou do contracy thy warke may never
Thus in thys Chapter whyoh ys so ··
I have the taught thy trew solucion ;
Now to the thyrd gate goe, for ys 'won.
THE THIRD GA'TE:
Of Sepa1'ation.
doth cch parte ftom other devyde, .,
The subtill fro the groce, fro the
Rut separacyon manualllook; tl1ou
For that pertaynyth to folys whvch lyttyU good don wyn,
nut in our separacyon nature dO'th not :' '' .
1\faking dyvysyon ofqualytes elenientall ··
Jnto the fyfdi degree tyll they be turned all.
,
o1git1zed by Coogle
7\vel'De Gates.
Do thys wyth hete esy and mesuryng
Fyrst wyth moyst fyre, and after wyth the dry :
The flewme by pacyence owt drawyng;
And after that thy other natures wyttyly, ·
.Dry up thyne erth tyll hyt be thrysty :
By calcenyng els thou laboryst all in vayne,
And tl1
en mal<e hyt drynke up his moysture ngayne.
Whych yf they were not by craft made quick,
And ther fatnes wyth water out ;
And so the thyn dyssevered from the thyke,
Thou should never bryng thys worke about :
Yfthou ""Ylt speed therefore wythout doubt,
Reyse np thy byrds out of theyre nest,
And after ngayne bryng them downe to rest.
Now to help thee in at thys gate, . ,
The lost secret I wyll tell to thee;
Thy water must be seven tymes sublymate,
Ells shall no kyndly dyssolucyon be,
Nor putryfyyng shall thou none see, .
Like lyquyd pytch nor colours apperyng,
For lack of fyre wythin thy glasse workyng. ·
Fower fyer& there be whych you must understond1
Naturall, innaturall, against nature, alsoe
Elementall whych doth bren the brond ;
These foure fyrcs use we and no mo :
Fyre against nature must doe thy bodyes wo;
Thatys our dragon as I thee tell,
Fersely brennyng as fyre of hell.
Fyre of nature ys the thyrd menstrual},
That fyre ys naturally in every thyng;
But fyre occasionat we call innaturall, ·
4nd hcte ofaskys and balnys for putrefYing-:
Wythout these fyres thou may not bryng ·
To putrefaccyon for to be seperat;
Thy matters togeather proportyonat.
Thtrcfore make fyre thy glasse wythin,
Whych brennyth the bodyes more then fyre
Elemental! ; yf. thou wylt wyn ·
Our secret accordyng to thy desyre, ·
Then shall thy seeds both roote and spyre,
By help of fyre occasionate, · · ·
That kyndly alter may be scperat:
t21'
o1git1zed by Coogle
•• .Alcllemical Preatiies.
THE FQURT:Q GATE.
Of Conjlfnction.
Of two conjunccions pl1ylosophers don mentyon
Groce when the bOdy w1th Mercury ys reincenclat,
But let hyt passe, and to the second tent thou take,
Which as I sayd ys after separacion celcbrat :
In whych the partys be lest whych lest so collygate ;
And so promotyd unto most pcrfyt temperance, ·
Then never after may be amoug them repugnance.
Thus causyth separacion trew conjunccion to· be ha<l
Of water, ayre,· earth, and fyre, ·
But that every element may into other.be lad,
And so ever to thy desyre;
Do as done laborours with day and myer,
Temper them thyke; and make them not to thyiJ,
For so to up drying the rather wyn.
·And whari thy vessle hath stood by monyths five,
And clowds and be passed ech one ;
That lyght apperen· increase tl1y hete then ·blyve,
Tyll bryght shyneing 4t whytnesse thy s\,onc,
Then may thou opyn thy glasse anone, · ·
And fede thy chyld whycb ys t}len ybore · .
Wyth .mylke and mete ay more and
}'or now both moyst and dry be so contemperate,
'rbat of the water erth hath reccvyd impressyon ;
Whych never assunder after that may be seperate,
A.nd ryght soe water to erth hath given ingressyoh,.
That both together to dwell hath made professyon ; · '·
And water ot: erth hath purchasyd retentive, · ·
They fower be made one never n1ore to strive:
in two thyngs our doth hm.g,
ln dry and moyst whych be two ;
In dry that hyt the moyst tQ' fVx.ing bryng,
In moyst that hyt geve lyquyfaccion the erth unto,f
That of them thus contemperate lnay forth go .
A temperament not so thyk as the body ys,
N,otller so thyn water mys! ·
..
o1git1zed by Coogle
·Twel"'t Gate&..
THE FIFTH GATE.
Of Putrefaction.
begynnyth the chapter of putrefaccion,
Wythout whych pole no sede may multiply, .
Whych must be done only by contynuall accyon
Of hete in the bocly, mGyst, not manually,
!<'or bodies ells may not be alterat naturally:
Syth Chrystdo it wytnes, wythowt the grayhe of whete
Dye in the ground, encrese may thou not·gete.
And in lykewyse wythout thy matter do putrcfye, ·
It may in no wyse trewly be alterate, '
Nor thyne elements may be devyded kyndly; ·
Nor thy <:onjunccion of thet_n perl)'tly..celeb!at:
That thy labor therefore be not frustrate,
1'he prevyte ofputrefying well understood,
Or ever thou take thys warke in bond.
And therefore as I have seyd afore
'l'heyn elements comyxt and wysely coequat, .
Thou keepe intemperat heate, eschuyng
That they by violent hete be never incynerat ;
To powder dry unprofytably rubyfycate,
But into powder as a crowes byll
Wyth hete of balne, or ells ofour · ·:.
To tyme that nyghts he past nynty, · · · · ·
ln moyst hete kepe them fro eny·thyng ; ·. · ·
Sone after l>y blacknesthow shalt espy ·
That they draw fast to putrefying,
\Vhych thow shalt after many colers bryng
To perfyt whytenes wyth pacyence esyly,
And so thy sede in hys nature shall multeply. •
Thys tyme ofconceptyon wyth esye hete abyde;· :
The blacknes showing shall tell the whenthey f
For they together lyke lyquyd Pyche that tyde, ,· .·
Shall swell and hurbyll, setyll, and ·· ::
Shyni,ng colors therin thou shalfespye : .
I..ykc 'to the raynbow mervelosc unto syght, .
Tlte water then begynnyth to dry upryght. .
For in bodys hcte norlshyng. temperate, .
lngendryth blacknes syrst·of all whtch ys
<}Ikyndly commyxyori to the tokyo assygnirte;
And of trew putrefying, remember thys, · · ...
For·then.to alter perfytly thou may not mysse ; • .
And thus by the gate ofblacknes thou must cum Itt ·
To lyght ofPal'adycein whytenesyf thou wylt wyn.
o;9,11zed by Google
Alchemical
For· fyrst the son in hys uprysyng obscnrate
Shalbc, and passe the waters of Noyes tlud
On erth, whych were a hundred dayes contynaate
And fyfty, away or all thys waters yode,
·Ryght so our waters as wyse men
Shall passe, that thou wyth Davyd may say
.4bierunt in sicco jluminte ; bare thys away•
. THE SIXTH GATE.
Of Congelatiott.
Of congelacyon 1 nede fiot much to wryte,
But what ytys now I wyll fyrst declare:
It ys of soft thyngs induracyon of colour whyte,
And confyxacyon of spyrits whych tleyng arc:
How to congele thee nedyth not much to care
For elements wyll knyt together sone,
So·that putrefaccyon be kyndly done.
For when matter ys made parfyt whyte,
Then wyll thy spryte wyth the body congelyd be;
Butof tyme thou must have long respyte,
Yer yt appere congelyd lyke pearles the, .
Such congelacyon be glad for to sec ;
And after lyke graynys red as blod,
Rychyr then any worldlygood.
'Ihe erthly grosnes therefore fyrst mortyfyed
In moystnes, blacknes ingendryd ys;
Thys pryncypell may not be denyed,
For. naturall philosophers so seyth I wys, .
Whych had, of wbytenes thou may not mys ;
And into whytenes yf lhou congele hyt ons,
'l'hou hast a stone most presyose of all stonys.
But here thou must another secr.et knowe,
How the philosophers cbyld in the.ayre ys
Besy thee not to fast at the cole to blowe,
And take that nether for mock nor skorne,
But trust ine truly else thy work ys all forwnte;
Wythout thyne erth wyth water revyvyd be,
QW' trew «:Qngelyng shalt thou never see.
l
o1git1zed by Coogle
fwelve Gates.
·, ., !
THE SEVENTH GATE.
. ;
:Of Cibation.
'l'hre tymcs thus must thou·turne about thy whele
Abowte kepying the rewle of the scyd cibacyon.
And then us sone as yt the fyre doth fele,
Lyke wax.yt wylbe redy unto)yquacyon.; ..
Thys chapter longer . . ·
For J havo told.thee the dyatory mdSt conveoyent .
.Aftcrthync equypolent. , .· .
And also h.ow.thou.to whytenes shalt bryng thy ; .
' Most lyke-10 fygure to theJenys of an hawthorn tt:c, · .'
Callyd Mngnesyaafure:as I have oold; ·. . . '·
And our whyte sulfur wyclh«>Wte,conbuetebyllyte,: . 1
Whych (ro the fyer away wylhwver fie;
And thus the seventh gate-,as -
thow desyred
In the upspryng. of the soa ys conqueryd.
'·
THE EIGHTH GATE..
·...
Of
In fyi"St beware ofone tl1yng, · . . ··.';·
That thou sublymc not to the top of thy. vessell,
For without vyolm.ee thou. shalt yt not bryng
Ageyne, but there.yt wyll:abyde.and d,wcll; ..
hyt wyth. I · t.cll ;: .
Kepe hyt therfure wyth bete .•. . ,
Full forty dayes,- tyll • . ·. ·
And sublymacyo:n.we make fur.caU&ys thre, , ; . . ..•
Thefyrst cause ys to make.the.body,sp,iritualt;,
The second that the spryt roBy.oorporall. _.
And wyth ..• • 1 ,
The thyrd cause ys that frp,hyt! fylth orygy.pall..·., ..·
He may be clcnsyd, nnd,hys fatnys ; ;
Be mynyshyd in hym ys ."
Then when ,; . .
They :wyll.sublyme,up whyter the,n·:mo'r; . , ,·
g11CtlY, the; :·: , · ,
'For than anon parfytly shalt thou know
Thy sprytts shall so be a downe I
That thys gate to the shalbe unlockyd,
Out ofthys gate many one be shuyt and mockyd.
.Ee
-
o;9,tozed byGoogle
.Alchemical ·'PI'eatises.
THE NINTH GATE,
.
.Of
Tliar:po'ynt .( 1tyli tO diecr,. '
f.ooke huw thou dydyst wyth thy unparfvt bocry;
.And do st>· wyth parlyt 'bodys in every degre ;
That ys to sey·fyrst thou them pubefye
Herptymary qual!tes destroying aue.ly r
.For ih]s ys whbley to oureatent; .
That tyrst thoualter before tio11 fennent,
To thy compound make fermem the fowerth pt111e,.
Whycb ferments be only of &OR and mone ; · ·
. If tluh·rore be moster of thy. arte,
Thy :lat thys be done,.
Fyx wate:r and ertli togetl:aer &&ne :
. And wheR Ute medcyn as wax doth fto..ve,
Than uppoR Malgamsioke thou hyuhrow•
And when all that together ys myxyd ·
Above thy glasse well closyd make thy fyre1
And so contenew hyt tyll 811 be fyxid,
And well fermented to desyre;
Than make projeccyon afterthy
For that ys medcyn dum edt dele
Thus must you ferment both red and
And understood that ther be ferments three,
Two be of bodys in natBI'e cleae,
Whych·lnust be altryd u I ha-.e told
The thyFdmost seotel of I mene,
Ys fyrst erth tO Jiys owne watergrene: ·
Andlllerfore whel\ the doth thllrst,
Make llym drynke tyll belly
But wyth:thy bace after my dectrptepreperatr
Whych ys our calx,' thys musllbe don;:
For when ear bodys be so calCenat, ·
That water wyll to oyle dyssolve· them solle t
Make therfore ·oyle of 8on and mone-
Wbich ys ferment most fragrant for-·to smelt,·
And so the .ninth gate ys ·gonquer«< of thp C!ldoiL
o1git1zed by Coogle
.... ,
THE·TENTH .GATE,
Of Er(!.ltatiou. ·. · .· ..
• '' ,
Yf thou ·tbet"fore thy .bodys wyll' ·. ·
Fyrst wyth the spryts of lyfe thou the:M
Tyll tyme thy erth
By rectyiJlng ofeche element;
Hym up exa:ltyng 1ot.o :t
Than much qwre presyose &hall they be :tlWt gold,
Because they of the cjuyntesserice do hold.
For when die cold hat.h over<-'UUl the
T.ben.
.into water the shall be.;
ADd two c:>(ltrarys tOgether shall mote,
';fyU wyth .odit;r ryght weU.a.gre_., .
So into llJ,re,th.Y ;watt;raaJ.tcll.the;
When hete
be..COf\Vertyd by craft <:J.rculil,Cionf. ,
And of 1;l1.e fyer then aye! have thou shall,
· By · · '
And tyer thou hast of erth ,:
Thyne .elements by craft thus dysseyeryng,
Most specyaUy the erth well ·
.And when they be eche on mad.e pure,
·'fb,oo do .rpey .all Qf ,t4e ty{t,h l¥lt.ure;.
ELEVENTIJ G4TE.
Of .Mult,iplipatiQn.
Aud why thou ptay thy medcyn. multeplyt
ttynytly the cause forsoth ys
or yt Jii.fyer whycJt yvyll dye : .
wellyng nth the as.ijer doth m
Of whycb bne sparke may make more tyers I wyf> ; ·
As musk·iQ pygments, and other ·
In vertue multyplyeth and our medeyn ryght so.
So he ysryche the whych fyer hath les or moret
Because he may so gretly multeply;
. And ryght so ryche ys he whych any parte hath in store
Of our elixe_rs whych be augmentable infynytly
. One way yf thou dyssolve our powders
And oft tymes of them make congelacyon,
pr hyt in goodnes thou makyst then augmentacyon!
o1git1zed by Coogle
Alchemical T1·eatisc$.
The second both _
in and in quantyte,.
Hyt by iterat fermentacion,
As in that chapter I showyd p1nynly unto the,
By dyvers manners of tiatundl operacyon,
And also in the chapter ofour cybacyon : ·
Where thou.may know how thou shalt
wyth ipfynytly. •
THE TWELFTH GArE.
. ·' ..
Of Prqjeetwn.
In projeccyon hyt sbnlbcprovyd yf our practise be"profYtable
Of whych yt behovyth me the secrets here to n1cvc, · .
Therfore yf thl tyncture be sure and not varyable,
By a lyttyflofthy medcyn thus shall thou prcve·
Wyth metta11 or wyth mercury ns pyche yt wyll clev.e :
And tynct in projeccyon all fyc:-rs to ;nbyde, · · · '
And sone yt wyll and hym full wyde.
But many for ianorans ·mar tbat they made,
When on mettafis ttnclensyd they
For be cause of corrupcyqn theyr tlllcturcs must vade;
Whych the wold not awey ·fyrst fro the·bodys take,·
Whych after projeccyon be bryttyl, bloe, and blacke ;
That thy tyncture thcrfore may evermore last,
Uppon .furment.thy mtdcyn lol,te fjrrst cast.
o1git1zed by Coogle
..
JOHN PONTANU$,
.... . ' . .
·. Fire. I ' '
. 1. I, JoHN have travelled through many coun-
tries, that I might know'theceitaiJitjo of 'the pliif6sophers stone';
aiHI passing through the I' foupd mariy deceivets, but
no true philosophers, which put me upon incessant
and making man>: doubts, till at length I found
But when· ·attamed the knowledge of the matter m general,
I l.east tim.es, before I rould .
the smgUtar Itself, wtth the work and
thereof. '· · ' · · .,. ·· · · ·· ·
· 2. First, I ·began with the patrefuction of.the matter, which
.J continued for nine ·months_toget'her, .and !)btained nothing....:.
I then· for some certain time a Balneum Mar'r'te, ··but
vain;· After that,' I a fire of ealcihation for three·month.-
space, and Still found ·myself out of the- I es$8yed aU sorts
of distillations and sublimatfori5, 'as the philosophers, · Geber,
:Archelaus, and all the rest of thein have prescribed, and yet
··found nothing·: In sum, I attempted to'peii'ect the·wholework
ofalchemy by all and l*ely as by liorse-dung,
baths, ashes,'' and odier heats bf kinds, all Which ·are
G1and in the books, )ret without .any
lyet continually together studied the e>f
and that m Hermes, whose concise words
tompreherfd the sum of' the whole matter, viz. _
the df the
philoSophers stont>; by an obscure way ·of pf what is
superior, and what isinferior, to wit,. of heavt>ri of
Therefore our operation which brings the matter into being, in
the first, second, and third work, is not the heat of tl bath, nor
horse-dung, nor ashes, nor of the other fires, which
excogitate in their Sh!lll I tlten, ·what it is that
perfects the work, smce thewJse men 'have thus-concealed it?--
Truly, being moved with·a generous spirit, I will declare it, with
the complement <1f the whole work. ,. · '··· · · : - ·
.: .s. The Lapis ·PM/(Jsophormn, therefore, is .but one, though
it has many names,· whic'h beforeyou them,· will be very
' difficult. For it is watery; ai17, fiery, earthy; it is salt, sul-
_mercury, and 1t is .sulphnreons, is argmt
v1ve ; 1t has many superfluities, wlnch are turned mto the true
essence, by the help ofour fire. He which separates any thing ·
from the subject or matter, thinking it to be necesaary;· wholl1
I . I .
D•git•zed by Coogle
Alchemical T1·eatlses.
ens in his philosophy. That which is snperftuon5, unclean,
filthy, feculent, and in a word, the whole substance of the subl"
ject is transmuted Ol' changed into a perfect, fixed, and spiritual
body, by tht! heJp of our which the wise men never ;revealed,
and therefore it is, that few at,taift to this art, as thinking that to
s11,eedluous &lld impure, Jthicb ia not.
t:- · behoves us now to enquire after the propertiesofoar.fire1
..,_d how itagrees with our matteJ", aQCOrding to thatwhich I have
viz. that a transmutation may be made, though the fire is
,:notsuch.as to bu,rp.the matter, ;aothing from it, nor
.dividing P\e pure parts from the as tlie
and the whole subject into pu-
Nor does it sublime after the manner of Geber's
't,ia;q. nor the sublimations or distillations of ArnolduS, or others;
is peifecte:d in a time. ·h is a maUer mineral,
Qi- tiJmes pot. unless too much prov.oked;
.par!l.lkes qfJ;ulphpr, it> ,taken otherwise than from matter;-
destroys all. thing., dissolves, coogeals, cal.:-
t,o and.is a _compendium, without any
_great cost; And that.u; .the pre, w1th a gentle heat, soft or
· .:remiss, which tl,\c whole ;work js perfected, with
thefii'OP¢:1" They ...ho ;read Geber, with all the
rest Of·,die pjtUQSopher$, they should survive an }llJDdre4
'thousan.d years, yet would they not be able to comprehend ·it,
Io, that this fire is found by a profound cogitation pply,
may be gathered out ol not
-..caor.e. .
therefore, this.work, chidly froUJ
notknowiu¥, or of the true fire, which is
of the .movmg principles that triUlimutes the whfille
.mto.the true philosophers stone ; and therefore Qilige.ritJy fincl
it out. Had I found first, I bad neyer two bundre<l
times .mistaken in. the pursuit ofthe matter I .sO long spughl
foe which cause .sake, I \vonder that so many' and 8ft great
ba,ve attained the They . erre<Ir
do err, ,an,d they <.'l'r; because
.bt.epkiru mdy concealed tlie or proper
. And unless I ha.J read &Jld sen,sjbly uJ;Jdel'-:
st<X.xlk..his to the of tht;
.wor · ·
· 6. Now practk.al part is this·; Let .the matter
and groun.d with a contrition, put·1t upoq
the 1i,Jre; with such a of heat, tllat it only excite or •
,up the .matter .; a)ld ' in a &hort time fire, without
any laying on of bands, wj}l' .whole work, be-
.cause.it putrefies, con'-lpts, gcperates, and perfects, and ·makes
the ,three principal wlours, the hh":k, white, and red to
And by pur fire, will
o;9,11zed by Google
Pontanur. 131
be midtiplied, by addition of t1ae crude ftlattet, not only in
quantity, but also in quality or virtue. ·Therefore aeek oul
this fire. '*ith all thy industry, for having once found .it_
thou shalt accomplish thy desire, because it performs the
whole work, and is the true key of all the philosophers, which
they never yet revealed. Consider well of what I have spo-
ken concerning the propertiet ofthis fu:e, and thou must kncol\'t
it, otherwise it will be hid from thine eyes.
7. Being moved with generosit.f, I have written these ·.
things, but that I might speak platnly, this fire is not trans-
muted with the matter, because it is nothing,of the
as I have before And these things I thought fit to
speak, as a watnmg ·to the prudent eons of art, that t!teJ·
spend not their money unprofitably, but may knoW what
ought·to look after ; for by this only they may attaiu to thC
perfection ofthis secret, and by no- odier.means. '
" I
: L
' · '
. ; I .
., '
j 4 • 1 : • ' 1
, :'I'
.,
'•
o1git1zed by Coogle
" ' THE STONE OF FIRE
. . . , .'
J'ROl\1 ' ·I
BASit .VALEl\TTINE.
. !
or anti-9
1nqny, the first thing be by bim is solutiol} of
tbe body j nnd .this, ,he must take it in a conven.lCllt
pln<;e, and propose . ;himself the way, that he:be not se-
Uuced into oeviou.s paths. must observe the go-
'Vernnnce of the fire, taking that Jt be neither too muclt,.
:Jlor too little, or too hot, or too cold. For the .sum of all is
.aited in an exact governance of the fire; by which the vivifying
apirits of antimony are extracted, and loosed from their bonds,
and so rendered capable to manifest their effects operlltively.-
.Also, he must take rea
.t care, that this operative virtue be not
mortified, and peris by adustion.
KIRKIUNGius-Believe not orily Basilius, bot me also, with
the same faith and sincerity affirming to you ; this is the first
key, this is the principal part of the whole art, this opens to
you the first gate, this will also unlock the last, which leads to
the of the king. . But as I said, not only believe, .
also consider and observe. Here you stand in the entrance, if
you miss the door, all your £ourse will be error, all your haste
ruin, arid all your wisdom foolishness. He who obtains thia
key, and knows the method, which is called manual operation,
by which to use it, and huth stl'ength to tum the same, will
acquire riches, and an open passage unto the mysteries or
chemistry.
BAsiL-Therefore preparation of antimony consists in the
key of alchemy, by which it is dissolved, opened,..divided, and
separated. Also in extracting its essence, and in vivifying itljj
mercury ; which mercury must afterwards be precipitated into
a fixed powder. Likewise by art and a due method, of it may
be made an oil. The same is visible in other preparations, de-
rived from the art and alchemy; as for example:
if any one would make beer of barley, wheat, or other corn.
all these degrees must be most perfectly known to him, before- he
can from those grains extract their most subtile essence . and
·virtue, and reduce the same into a most efficacious drink. First,
the grains must be so long, steeped in water, as until they be
able sufficiently, to open nnd resolve themselves, as I, whcll
o1git1zed by Coogle
Basil of Antimony.
'
I was a young mai1, travelling·into England and Holland, di-
ligently observed to be done in those places ; this is called
putrefaction and corruption. This .key being used, the water
is drawn oft' from the grain, and the macerated corn is laid on
heaps close together, and left so for a due time, until it spon-
taneously conceive heat, and by the same heat germinating, the
grains adhere each to other ; this is This being finish-
ed, the grains which adhered in the1r are sepa-
rated, and driCfi, either in the air, or by heat of fire, and so
hardened. This is reverberation, and coagulation. When the
corn is thus prepared, it is carried to the mill, that it.may be
broke and gt·ound small ; this is vegetable calcination. After-
wards, by heat of fire cocting these grains, the more noble
spirit of them is extracted, and the water is imbibed with the
same; which without the aforesaid preparation could not have ·
been• In this way the crude water is into beer, and
this operation (though I speak bot rudely) is and is called dis-
tillation. The hops, when added to the beer, is the vegetable .
salt thereof, which conserves and preserves· from all contraries,
endeavouring to corrupt the same. ·
After all these works are performed, a new separation is made
by clarification, viz. of the drink, in this manner : .a liule yest
or ferment is added, which excites an internal motion and heat
in the beer, so that it is elevated in itself, and by the help of
time, separation of the dense from the rare, and of the pure
from the impure is made; and by this means the beer acquires
a constant virtue in operating, so that it penetrates and effects
all those ends, for which it was made·and into use;
which before could not have been, because the spirit, the opera-
tor was hindered, by its own impurity, from·efFecting its proper
work.
In wine also doth not experience teach the same ? That
cannot; before the time come, in which the impurities may be
separated from it, so very perfectly and efficaciously perform its
own work, as after separation of the pure from the impure :-
which by drunkenness is manifest ; for beer or wine unsettled,
and not purified, give not forth from themselves so much spirit .
for inebriating, as after clarification. But of this no more.-
After all the aforesaid, a new operation may be instituted, by
vegetable sublimation, for separation of the spirit of the wine or
beer, and for preparing it by distillation into another drink
of burRing. wine,. which may also be made of the lees or
dregs of wine and beer. When this is done, the operative
is separated from its own body, and the spirit being ex-
tracted by tire, forsakes its own unprofitable dead habitation, in
wltich it was commodiously hospited before. Now, if this burn- .
ing wine, or spirit of wine, be rectified, an exaltation is Ii1adc:
by often it, and by a.certain method of the
F f
o1git1zed by Coogle
.Alchemical Trcn.tz'ses•
.pure part, flee .&om all phlegm or aquosity, may be so· cenccn...
tcred, and as i' wetc eoodenscd, as one measure of it may effect
more, than Cwenty or mote oould have done beiOre. For h
tiOOner inebriates1 and is swift, V.ola1iilc and subtile·for penetrat-
ing and ..
Here I admomsb yon, whotOe'Vel' you are,. wft(Y deswe to be
.taught by my writings, and hope to obt.nin riches and &
_from. that you carelessll peruse
my Jntentton, m wh1ch 1s 110 letter m vam, and wh1ch bath
a cm'tain singular signification for your inetruction. ·
hitlter yon traveller,. stay your jouraey
here. Contemn not or slightly over this tautological, but
Rot impertinent, admonitmn ; eften ia your mind have rccourSC'
to this description of beer; search, contemplate, and weigh all
things,. perhaps in tnis turbid and fumous gulf, you will nnd
the fish you look not for. lf in 'his· light yon yet be blind,
l know nf!t any oollyrium will profit you; if.with so certain a
manuductiOn you eannot pass on t'O the work Itself, l know D?'
who will leud you a or wbat demonstration can direct tie-
journey of a stupid man. Believe, rend, meditate, · labour,
and spare the use of so many chemical books, "·hich distract
you with the error of various ways ; this oRe tells you all
things. . '
BASIL--W:Aen most hard steel is struck with an hard and
.olid flhit, fire exoites fire by vehement commotion, and accen·
8ion, drawing forth the occult sulphur, or the occult fil-e is ma..
aifested by that vehement commotieu, nud enkindled by the air
. so, as it truly and cffieaciously burns ; but t'he sultrremains in-
the and the mercury thence takes its Bight oogether with
M1e burning aulphur.
KmKRINGit.:s-Yow, whG read this most simple comparisoa
ef steel and a flint,. slack the reiss of your admiratioa, and sc--
ask yourself;. whether the.re can be found out any way os
by which &om this st()lle and cold iron may be extracted
a OJ'le only gttain (but why .do 1 SJ?eak of a
gram?) of whtch the hunaredtli part of a gram elm m a very
abort tillle cenvert a gl'eat mnss ofsome rupe matter, into the ·
most.splelRlid nnd most r.recious ; yea,
most profitable for mankmd. Thts ts possible, aDd 18 daily4
done, when the fixed is made and the volatile
tixcd. He that hath undel'Standing, let him nnderstanti,
and cease to defame lie admirable virtue:> of chemical
works.
BASIL_:So :Rere also lUldentand, that antimony ougbl m
a certain method IJO to be .halidled, as its merCliiY may be-
separated from the salpbur thereof, ia a natural: manner.-
Now as fire, which liea absconded in matter, unless it be mad•
and ean. be demousu.ated, is .prwtable for aGdl.iu•
o,g;t,zedbyGoogle . J
Btts!t of .J4ntimony.
is aot, 116 t may say, tallgible by the hands, nor can it
.any thing to pwrpose ; so medicine can effect nothing that is
.excellent, ltnletlS .it be first separated from its grossness, reetifi.ed
and so discharged of claTified ..and brought to light
by due preparation, as js manifest in all for when se-
paration of :the pure .&<'m the impure is made, and all that is
or tcrresttial is R-am the pure .metal, ,then
the desired harvest is to be expeete4- · Hence it is manifest, that
,can effect not\ling, before it is in a certain maBner opel'lecl
.and set 1¢ liberty, that it may operate. .to CQIIlpre-
nend' much in few l tbis is the .CQ.Udition of
.antimony. . · ·
·· Its transparent rednees is to the ,carbuncle, ruby,
coral ; its whiteness, to the diamond' and crystal ; bJue
,colour, to the sapphire; green, to the emerttld ; yellow, to the
jacinth ; its black, to the grana(e, which stone contains in ;itself
a certain blackness oeCI}ltly ,ab9condcd. But as to m.
etaJs,. the
black ·is ,t-o the red to irou, the to gold,
the to Cq>pa'., the blue to silv'r.., the white to mercury,
Its of v_
arious colours is to Jupiter.
all the colO;t:N'S of -ali metals .and precir us stones are _
clearly
fowid ,in antimon:r:, so also alt,the power.& _virtues o,f
.are ri9 leas shewed in ·it, than the colQlolfo sxforesaid. .
.· There is an extraction of antimony .IJlade in .1!his Jllfttlner.
Grind crude (pure) antimony to powder, poo.r (distil) .
upon it strong vinegar, not of wine, but. Qtade of. its ow:.u
minera, and expose the mixture ·in a veisel weil closed to a.
:SOlar heat ; then, after some' t,ime1
the 'vinegar will be ;tinged
;:with a .colour ; pour (distil) otf this extraction
clear, filter it, At:id distil by ateinbick in sand: then again,
distiJling, 'it. admira.ble pleaSl\Dt to the sight,
,and .m tuJpect. Th1s ml at length becomes red a:s
and .leaves·many n.;ces., and preyail!l against many in-
firmities. · · · ·· · · · ' ·
' Take crnde put that ground to a
subtile powder, · into a glass cucurbit with a· flat bottom,
and pour thereon the vinegar .of pbitosophers, rendered
more acid with its own Salt. Then set the C.ltcurbit firmly
;closed mhorse-dung, or 6. M. to putrify the matter for torty
.ys, in which time body itself, R_l;ld the vinegar
:COOtracts a colour red .
.. blood; ·
· Melt the minern of antimony, puri.fi.J it, grind it to a
. pOwder, this matter p.ut into a round glass, is
;called a phial, having . a·. long neck, p.our upon .it· .distilled
,v-ater, that the vessel may be half full. Then havmg well
,Closed the vessel, set it to ·putrify in horse-dung, until the
._ to wax hot, and calit out a froth to the superficies ;
then i;t is to take it out; for that sign the body is
1-· · .. .. . . . .
o1git1zed by Coogle
286 .Aichttnical Tr_eatises.
This digested matter put into a cucurbit, which well close, and
the water, which will have an acid taste. When all the
••ater is come off, intend the fire, and a will a11cend ;
· this again grind with the freces, and again pour on the same wa-
ter, and a second time abstract it, then it will be more sharp.
This operation must be repeat(.>d, until the water be made
acid, as any other sharp distilled vinegar of wine. But the
&ublimate, the oftener the operation is repented, the more it ill
diminished. When you have obtained this acid vinegar, take
fi·esh minera as before, and pour this vinegar on it, so as it
may stand above it three fingers ; put it into a pelican, and
· digest it two days in heat, then tbe vinegar becomes red, and
much more sharp than before. Cant this clean· off, and distil
it without addition in B. M. The vinegar comes off white,
and the redness remains in the bottom, which extracted with
· of wine, is an exeellent medicine. Again rectify the
vinegar in B. M. that it may be freed from its phlegm ; lastly,
dissolve in it its proper salt, viz. four. parts of it, to one
of the salt, and force it strongly by ashes ; then the vinegar
becomes more sharp, and acquires greater strength, and
virtue.
· The star is thus made : Put Hungarian antimony nine parts
upon iron red-bot four pruts, melt these together with two parts
ofnitre added in spoonfulls for half an hour, pour out the whole
into a hot greased iron mortar, when cold take out the
and separate it from all the scoria; break tl1is regulus to pieces,
and add to.it when melted as much of nitre as·betore, and pour
it out. Repent this labour the third time ; then the regulus
purgeth it!ielf, and.becomes pure and clear. Note, if you have
:rightly performed the fusion, you will see a fair star on the
n·gulus shining like silver, a proof that the matter has
taken a new structure in rays like the sun and moon, from the
centre to the circumference.
Sir Humphry Davy, page 400, Elements of Chemistry,
writes: Basil Valentine is the first chemist who has described
the process of extracting antimony from the sulphuret, though
it does not appear that he was the inventor of this process. To
procure antimony, the common antimony sold by druggists,
which appears as a series of chrystals like needles possessing the
metallic brilliancy, and which are composed of the metal and
t>ulphur, are ignited with ·half their weight of iron filings
savs nails) and.a quarter of their weight of nitre added
(in spoonfulls)" when they ore in fusion, the antimony wiJl be
:found at the bottom. This is to be ignited for about twenty
minutes with twice its weight of tartar, w_hen the pure metal
will be produced. · ·
o1git1zed by Coogle
ONE HUNDRED APHORISMS .
Dcmomtrating the Preparation· of the
GRAND ELIXIR.
BY BARO URBIGERUS.
1•. The hermetic science consists only in the right know..
]edge of the first matter of the philosophers, which is in the
mineral kingdom, not yet by nature. · ·
2. An undeter01ined matter being the beginning of all metal.r
and minerals, it follows, that as soon as any one shall be so
happy, as to know and conceive it, he shall easily comprehend
also their natures, qualities, and properties. . '
s. Although.same persons, possessed with foolish notions,
dream, that the first matter is to be only in SQIJ)e par-
ticular places, at such and such times of the year, and by the
virtue of a magical magnet; yet we are most certain, accord-
to our divine master, Hermes, that all these suppositions .
bemg false, it is to be found every.where, at all times, and only ·
by our science. , ·' ·
4. The hermetic art consists in the true manipulation of our
undetermined subject, which before it can be brought to the
highest degree of perfection, must of necessity undergo all our
chemical operations.
5. Our chemical operations are these, subli-
mation, dissolution, filtration, cohobation, distillation, separe.-
tion, reverberation, imbibition, and digestion.
6. When we call all these operations ours, they are not at all to
·be understood •according to the common operations of.the so-
phisters of metals, whose industry consists only in disguising of
subjects from their form, aAd their nature ; but ours are really
to transfigure our subject, yet conserving it$ nature,,quality, and
property. . .
7. This our subject, after its having passed through all those
attificial operations, which always imitate nature, is called the
o1git1zed by Coogle
238 .Atc11emical Treatises.
)>hi!osophers stone, or the fifth essence of metnls, being com-
pounded of the essence of their four elements. · .
8. The metnls nod minerals, which nature hP.s already deter.
mined, although they should be retrogradated into
mercury, water, nRd vapour ; yet cal) they b_y no means be taken
for the first matter of the philosophers.
Our true and real matter is only a vapour,
with the metallic seed, yet undetermil}ed, created by Goil
mighty, by the concurrence arid influence of the
trums, contained in the bowels of the earth, aa the matrix of aU
created things. .
· · · · · '
10. 'This our is called undetermined, because, being a
tnedium between a metal and a .mineral, and being neither of
them, it has in it power to produce aceo.rding to' the sub;
ject, it ·meets withal.· · · · ·
11." Such a me.tatlic V4\PQUr, congeeled anti nourished in the
bowels of the earth, is called the undetermined, and when i,t
enchants the serpent with .the beauty of its internal and addi-
tional fire, the determined green dragon of the
1rithout the 'and manipulation pfit,
.
12. This green drngon is the natura} gold of the philowphers,
c:liffercnt trom the vulgar, which is corporeal and
dead, bei.l.ll7 come the period of its perfe(:tion according
therefore incapable of generatiJ,tg, unless it -be first
generated itself by 01Jf mercur,ial water ; but ours is spiritual,
end living, having the generative faculty in itself, and in its
'Jlature, and hav!nz· received quality
:Creator of all dungs. · · ··
13. Our gold is caUcd it is not to be made by
11ft, and since it is knowri to none, but the true disciples
who understand ·how to separate it from its original lump ;
is called also philosopJtical ; apd if God had not beeq.
.86 as to create tbis first cfiaoa to our hand, all
.skill and art in the of great elixir would be iq.
'Vain. · ' · · · · · · · · · ·
. 14• .Out of our gold, or updetcrmined green dragon,
-.·Hliout the liddition 'of any other created thing
_,e }mow ho\v through our universal menstruum to extract
eur · elements, or principles, nec:eSsary for the
our ,great work ; which is our first way of preparing
grand elixir ; and since our tirst is to be hatf.
"·ithout any expence, as costing only the troubleofdigging it out
of the mines, this ·is not unfitly called the only way of the
poor. · · · ··
15. The operations in this our first way being in a mannet
·ttle snme with those of our second; which is, when we join
determined drogon witb our we •hall (to
o1git1zed by Coogle
. '
·titions) in dte subsequent aphal"isms give instmc:tions for U...
both together. . ,
16. Our 8ei"Pent, which is also contained in the bowels or
tl1e earth, being of all created things whatsqever; the neare.a
trultiect of a iemininc nature to our dragon, their co-
pulation su.ch an astral and metallic seed, containmg Olll' ele.
ments, is nlso to be brought forth, as cnn, though with somewhat
more of expe11ce and time, perform the whole mystery ol
Hermes.
l7. Since our serpent is of all created things, the neatest
subject of kminine nature to our dragon, she is after her
copulation to be taken· f()r the basis ofour philo&ophical work
for out of her bowels, without the help of any other metal or
·Jnineral1 we draw our principles or elements, necessary
to oar work, being' retrogradated by the universal men-
struum. r l• .
18. This feminine ·subject cannot be l'etrogrooated; unless w
free her from Iter impurities, and heterogeneous qualities, she is
first actuated by her homogeneous ones, that sne may be in, a
better capacity to reeeive the spiritual love of our greea
chagon. .
19. our serpent has been bound with her. chain, pe-
. netrated w1th the blood of our green dragon, and driven n.ine,
ot ten times through the eombustible fire into the elemCRtaly
air, if you do find. to exceeding furious, .a
extremely penetratmg, 1t 1s a sJgD-, that you do not
Irk our subject, the Rotion of the homogenea, or their pro-
shis furious serpent, 4fi:er ,it has been diS80lved by the
•niversal m®Struum, filtratedt evaporated, aad congealed nine
er ten times, does not come over in a cloud, and tum into our
virgin milk, or metallic argentine water, not corrosive at all,
and yet insensibly, and invisibly devouring every tbing, that
comes near it, it is plainly to be seen, that you err in the DQtioR
of our universal menstruum.
21. The serpent, of which I now speak, is our true water of
the clouds,· or she real eagle and mercury of the philosophers.
greatly dift'erent from the vulgar, which is corporeal, gross,
dead, and full of heterogeneous qualitiea, and a subject fallen
from its sphere, like unripe fruit from the tree ; but oon is spi-
ritual, transpareut, living, J'esiding in its own sphere, like a
king on his throne. ,
12. Though tl'te mercury is such an unripe ..
portal, and dead1 yet 1f you know· how to amalgamate it With
our dragon, and. to it with the universal men..
8tnlum, you may assure yourself, that out ?fthis you shall
be able to prepare a sophie mercury, wtth whi<:h you shall
artainly produce the great elix.ir, di$rover the secret o.f
o1git1zed Coogle
240 A.lclzemical Treatises.
unlock tbelmost difficult locks, and command all the treasure$
in the worfd. ·
2S. Our mercury is called the mercury of the philosophers,
because it is a subject, which is not to be found ready prepared
to our hand ; for it must of necessity be made by our
phical preparations, out of the first chaos ; and although it·is
artificial, yet is it naturally prepared, Bature, which· is
imitated in the preparation of it, contributing. likew.ise there-
unto.
241. Since our subject cannot be called the fiery serpent of the
philosophers, nor have the power of overcoming any created
thing, before it has received such virtue and quality from our
tp'een dragon,. and the universal by which itself
1° first overcome, devoured, and buned m the1r bowels, out of·
which beiqg born again, it is made q1pable of the same, it
follows, that such a virtue of killing and vivifying is natural to
ourdragon and the universal menstruum.
25. The universal menstruum of the philosophers is that
one, without which nothing can live nor subsist in this
world. It is also that noble champion, ·which delivers the
uncorrupted virgin, Andromeda, who was with a strong chain
fastened to the rock in the power of the dragon, of whose spiri-
tual love having admitted, for fear of being eternally ruined
and devoured by him, which could not have been avoided, if
this noble champion had not come to her assistance. She is to.be
delivered ofa child, which will be the wonder of wonders, and
prodigy of nature. · ,
26. If our virgin in her confinement, before she is set at
liberty, does not manifest her extreme beauty with all her
internal, divers; delicate natural colours, wonderfully .chartn-
iog, and very pleasan_t to the eye, it signifies, that she
has not sufficiently enjoyed the spiritual company of the
dragon. . ,
27. If the universal menstruum has not totally delivered.
the from the of the dragon, it is a sign, either,
that she was not sufficiently free from her heterogeneous qua-
lities, or that she had not received from the external heat a sufn-
cient quality., or that the universal menstruum was
too weak to perform its undertaking. ..
2i. To know, whether the amalgamation, sublimJU;ion, dis-
solution, filtration, coagulation, and distillation havp .been
natural and philosophical, the whole body of. the
must come over spiritual and transparent, leaving on1y
few and very light freces at the bottom, which can by. no art
be reduced either into a running mercury, o.r a,ny other kind of
metallic substance. ..
29. After all these above-mentioned operations, ·and the se-.
parotiou, jf serpeot, being any metal,,
o,g;t,zedbyGoogle ·
Urbigcru$.
pur::! <r impure, cannot. suffer the fusion, it' will be ln f'or
you tti go any fnrthc'r with .it : for may that
you tlo not in true the · · . '
. 30. Our philosophical dJstdlations consist only m ·the right
sq>aJ·ution of our spiritual and mercurial- water from all its
poisonous oily substance, which is ofno use at all in our urt, and'
from the caput mort-uum, wllich ·is left behind after the first· dis-
tillation. ·
31. If after the :first distilla.t.ion, · rot exeeediogf.y
and extremely penetrating· red- oil does not· ascend, (which
as soon ns it begins to appear in t&e neclt ·of the P«ort; the
receiver mu.st be changed) it signifies, that the has
not been rightly and by consequence, that the
internal :fire of our metalHc vaporous ' water, being
6urnt up, and corroded by its poisonous vapour, and the
outward fire, is still mixed with it, and with tht caput
moduum. .
32. In case you should commit so great an error in. tlie per-
formance of this :first distillation, although it will never be in
your power to prepare the mercury duplex of the philosophers,
1ml.ess you sllould begin the-whole:' work again from the very
beginnmg; yet, ify0u haYe any farther skill in our art, you may·
easily prepare our mercury ·with which yoo wiU efrect
gr at and miraeulous thing& · ·
SS. This blood red oil with its only fumes penetrates· every
part and atom of aU metals.and minerals, and principally of
gold, out of which dissolution one may easily extract tfte
tincture or essence with highly rectUied spirit of wine, and bnng
it over the alembic with it;. wh-ich is indeed a iJ'e&t medicine for
human bodies. ' .
9+. A ·deep blood-red tincture of excellent virtue is. to be
extracted also out.of the above-mentioned caput 11Uiftuum, ac-
cidentally and unfortunately intermi:ied with the internal sul-
phur of our mercuriaL water, and with the red oil, with
nighly rectified spirit of wine : with· which after it has been
evaporated to a powder, imbibed, · and philosophically di·
gested, you may assure yourselfof having the medicine of medi.- ·
cines, next to the great eHxir, by which you may impereq>.tibly
and quickly cure allsorts ofdistempers, to the gooat admiration
of all Galenists, and to the utonishurent of all vulgar.
chemists-.
85. The most part of the philosophers, whilst their intention
was to go farther to the noblest perfeetior1 of our celestial
art, either employed this red oil, to a potability,
for internal medicines, or to external diseases without any.
farther preparation of it, till they bad obtained the great,
.
Gg'
o1git1zed by Coogle
•2:42· Alc1lem_jcal T,·catises:
· S6. If the tnpul m9l'tmm hns .not the magnetic quality iB
nttracting the spiritus· mmuli into. itself from the .astrums, it is
a sign, that at the end of the distillation of the red oil the
fire was- so violent,. as quite to burn up the
which. is in the &st freces o£ our mercurial
water. .
-- :n. After the :first distiilat.ion, if the least part of the virgin
mercurial water can by any art whatsoever be brought to-
»unnittg mercury, or any other kind of a metallic substance, it
is nn evident sign, that either the subject, or its preparation.
and reductiou into wate.r, has not been real, or philo-
sophicnl. · ·
:18. 1'he above-mentioned spiritus mundi, although of no use
at all in this oargrt'Rt- work, is yet a great menstruum in extract-
ing of tinctues- el:lt of minerals, animals, and vegetables,:
and in t.hinga in the rut, v'-llatilizing all fuwd
bodies, and principally gold. .
89. A great many pretenders to the trne hermetia kuowled'gc,
prepare menstruums to dissolve common mercury, and to turn-
it iuto water several manner of ways, and by several additions
of salts, metals, and minerals ; but, since all those
:preparations are sophistical, any one, expert in our art, will be
uble to it to its running quality again.
40. The quality of our mercurial water being to volatilize all
bodieSi and to fi.xi alt that are
wtth those that are fixed, to the proportiOn of It, dts-
. solving its own body, it unites inseparably with it, conserving.
its own qualities and· pPOperties1 and receives no aug-
mentation ft'oro any other created thing, but only from its crude
body. .'
4·1. Our mercurial water has such a sympathy the astrums, .
t1tat, if it is net kept very close, and hermetically sealed, it
will in a very short time, like a winged serpent, fly away in a
wonderful manner to its own sphere, carrying along with
it all the clements. and principles of metals, and not.
leaving ao much as one siugle drop, or the least remainder,
behind. . '
4-'Z.· Several' pretenders to t&e. magical science prepare magical
magnets,. to draw from the au, and (as they pretend) from
tbe estrums auch menstruums,. as t}ley think necessary for
the production of the great elixir; but their magnets being,
oompounded of several . determinate things, although their
menstruums are great diseolvents,. yet we do on assured know-
ledge affirm, that they can never perform 8llY real expetiment in:
vmmL -
43. &?me ar-e of opiniOn, that, unless the ,operator is master
in the magieai science, and fundamentally understanas all its ex-
}Jerimcnts7 he nevel' be ableby any other art whatsoever t•
o1git1zed by Coogle
I
U1·bigeru-s.
hring forth any sueh thi11gs, can produce ·. ihe
eliXir: Now, al_
though we do not deny, that the magical knm\•-
Jedge is required to attain to the highest degree of petfecti9.n
in aU sciences, yet we are most certain, that it is not at all ncccs·
-sary to ,the formation of the grand eliXir upon ·
precious stones, and vegetables. · · , · · ,
·· , 44. Our virgin milk, or metallic to n
_perfect ·spirituality, a!ld is called·..rlffi
true chaos of tht! philosophers ; for out of a1onl', With-
out any addition of any ot'artificialiy preparetf
we are to prepare and separate ,u the elements, which
-are . to the "formiitiotf of our pbilosopbical mi.
' · ·• '·' ' ·· ·
45. To aright, ,QUt ,of oy,r arc
to form pi1ilosophical microcosm, ·must first of neces:..
sity riglrtly 'comprehend the mys.tcrj and proceeding
in the creation ef the m'icrocosm ::-it "being extremely ne-
cessary to imitate and use the very same method in the Clie-
of our little one, that ·d,ie Creator of all things bas used
m the formation of the greai one., .
. 46. \Vhen our'diaos.or celestial;W:ater has purified itselffrom
its.own gross and bedy, ;u,is called the
philosophers, and the palpable ;Jiody the earth, 'Yfitch
'void, empty, an,d' dnl·k. And divine spirit, whJch
canied 1lpon the'face· of the did not brjng furtli out
· cf the palpable that metall!F
never be able by any art whatsoever to go on any farther wttlt .
tbe perfect creation of our miet;ocosm ' .. to .our
intent. · ·· · · · · ·· · ·
• 47. This heaven of the it .has separ&tcd
Jtsclf from earth, contammg our phtlosophtcal seed,
the m:tgnet of our salt of nature; from the superfluous
waters, is called the niercgry simplex of'the wfse man ;-tor
Whosaever attains it; at the time attains alsv the kno\v:.
l,edge and power of met41s, minerals, {!tc. so·
q.s t6
them to their first to '!loqiest to ·
l"mfy dead ones, conservmg always Its own
io itself, and to produce thegreat eli!fir according to usual way,
of the philosophers. · · ·
48. After we have separated the water from the waters, by
:which I mean the mercui-.ial celesti-al water fi·om the
water,- which is the phlegm; by the blessing of God and iri-
fusioR of our holy spirit, we do not in the lear.t doubt, .but .we
be abl; to br!ng forth out of our earth SUfli aud
subjects, w1th wh1cli' we shall perform the whole
creation, <:arrying our work to the highest degree of per-
fection. · · · ·
49. ·Our mercurial water being of the same brigl1tncss with
D•git•zed by Coogle
·244
' . -
Alch,cmical Tt·eali$tS.
· heavens, aud eur .palpnble gross body, wltich <li<l scparntc
itself from our celestial water, having the same properties
and quality with the earth, none, but ignorants, will deny
_them to be the right heaven and true earth of the philo-
sophers.
50. If, nftet· the separation of the spirit from the supcr-
fluom; waters, the world, _in which it is contained, does not ap-
pear mighty and full .of and of the same brightness
.with our ceie$t..W water, it is a sign, tbat the separation is
·fully perfor.Qled, the spirit being still intermixed with the
·w-
aters. · · .
.5H H in the space of nine or ten weeks, or two philoscphi-
cal months at lotlgcst, our mercurial water bas not done sc,pu-
ratil)g itself frmu all its- own enrtb-
, containing the metallic
seed, it is an evident sign, that yo_
u lu\ve either erred in the
working .of it, or that its digestion, having been too violent,
ha.S _confounded .and burnt up the principal subject of the
creation. : _
: 52. This philosophic eartb, containing our principal subject,
'after it has been separated from all the waters, is very
gently to be dried by 8ome external heat, to fi·ce it from its
extraneo.us hwoidity, that it may be in a proper capacity to
.receive the c"ele$tial moisture of our argentine water, to
which it its most noble fmits, with which our pM-
.losophic!U microcosm is generated, nourished, and
rated. · .
53. If the .earth, after it bas been reverberated, humectcd
:Wi(h our celestial moisture, does not presently enrich our
air with divine expected fruits, you must certainly be-
li£;ve, that in- the_drying of it :the. external heat has been so
violeh.t, to burn up.theintemal hetl-1 and nature of the
and ccmsequently spoil yopr as to the performance
Qf the wllQle of the 'cre!ltion, according to the noblest.
secretest ways of the philo-·
. : , · · _
54. In case the should.be totall-y destroyed by the violent
(!Xterrial -
heqt, . it ·is most certain, you caMot.<;arJ'Y
on our noble.'Creation any fl.)rther with it ; yet if you know bow
to amalgamate our nicrcury simplex with your common ,gold.
which is diss9lveq, _
and renew.ed by it, may be sure
ofelfccting elixir, although neither so quick, so nntur11l.
nor so ricl1, as ha.ve without it. And this is oUl'
third 'way. · · - .
55. Tl)e amaJgaJlllltion o.f our m.¢reury with common
gold, consists o.nly ip the right_
prQPortion, arid in the iudissoluble
u!lion of }?oth, wliich is done any external beat in a very
short time, without which exact proportion and right uuion,
nothing of any i:j to be expected from their )narriage.
o1git1zed by Coogle
56. Know then, that this right proportion is ten puts of our
mercm·y simplex to one of your &est -common gold io
which is in it, like ice iu common water, after an impcr- ,
ceptiblc manner. and as !loon as the Wllsolutiop is over, the eoll-
guhttion aud ·putrefaction .prcllently follow, which efiects ,jf you
find 11ot, it is a sign, -the mer.cury exceeds its <lue proportio11.
Now when your gold hus been thus well aiualgamnted, united,
putrificd, and insepurably digested with.our mer.cury llimples:, you
will then hov.e only our philosophical sulphur, in w.hichtime()ne
might easily have performed the :whole w01•k, working with014t
common gold. ·
57. AlthoQgh our mercury simplex is excee(linglyspiritnal and
volat:ile, yet since it is the rjght agent, digesting -the seed or es-
sence ofall metals and minerals, it will, though undigested, natv-
rally adhere t6 any theQt, altho-ugh corporeal, that
shall come ncar it, and will never leave it, unlt!si it be
forced awuy hy the tellt, though kept in a great fusioo. for many
hours. .
58. Thill merqtry silnplex, which before its
was of a feminine nature, and before it lett all its own earth, was
.hermaphroditi;c, being l>Owerful in both is now become of
a feminine and although it has lost the masculine
visible fire, yet it has conserved its own, which is invisible to Ui,
and with which it periOrnls operatiOBs ·in digest-
ing of imperfect meblls, after its .determinatiQn with any ef
them. .
89. If this -QW meratry., the propottioo rightly obeervei,
should be irnperfeclt metal, beiJJg first
<letermined with a flxed ane, it will and perfeet
the same, not losing the least particle of its virtue or qi:Wl-
;-which metal, after the digestion of a .
philGSQPhical
month, will, as JiQ()6t philospphers teocl1, be able to resist
..all mWllltl' of -tWd w.ill he flU' better thaa any natW'al
.one.
60. The determinat;on of our mercury simples with fioy
of the fixed boilics, be oonc by dissolving a amall quailtity
of filings of red or white r.o tlse colaur IUld qualitly
of the metal, that you desire to mehorate, and if y()u JWt
err iD the ll.lld unioh af the·subjeCts, yO» may assure
.yoyrself ·Of obtai.ning yQltr aft-er a phi!Oeopbir.tl.di-
·
61. To ar+gllt, the meProry titnplex is
rightly prCJ>ared,. .or come tQ it-a :t)erfection, one oa}y dl-op
upon a red-hot plate of copper, must whiten it through nad
through., and 't;wt pru't with.it, although brouglu iato a
great fUaioo; wawe, if you And it does not, it will be a·plain
that'either your Blercury is not well prepared, or
tl¥lt ithasDQt do.netWpaff.ltillg itselffrom its own-earth.
o;9,11zed by Google
246 ...4lchemical Treatises.
62. J( your mercury simplex," put upon its' OWJl. dried
earth, does not presently unite.with the essence ofmetals, ltppellr-
ing deeper than any blood, and shining brighter than any fire,
which is a mark of the of its own internal fil'e, and
that the eagle has sucked the blood of our red-lion, it is an
evlrth
·dent th!lt yolJ ·have erred in the of the
ea . .
68. 'J1li$ mercury, thus impregrtated with its essence, or
sulphur of metals, is called the mercury duplex of the philoso-
phet'S. phich is of a far greater quality, and virtue than the.
imbibitions in the salt of nature, attcr iu
being saturated with the simplex, the .whole mystery.of the
creation of the philosophical microcosm ia and
perfected. . .
· 641. To know, whether your mercury duplex is
cally prepared, and sufficiently impregnated with• iks own in-
ternal natural fire, put one single drop of it upon ·a red-
hot plate of fine slfver: and if the silver is not by this
.lrop penetrated through and throuuh with a deep-red
tincture, enduring the greatest fire of fusion, it will
th!lt you either fait in the preparation of it. or that you have not
given it time enough to recei"c full out .of own
earth. ·
65. This deep-red tincture, extracted out of ·our philoso-
JJhical earth, is called our sulphur, our undigested, · essentifi-
cated sold, our internal elementary fire, and .our red-!ion ;_;_
tor w1thout its help and concurrence, our philosophical
world cannot be nou.rished, digested, or accomplished, beiitg
.the right ground, true essence of the whole work of ou'r
96., When the earth·has lost its soul, the remainder of it is
the tl'Ue the salt 'of nature from the com-
bustible fire after a violent calcination for several hours :-
which salt, after its !Uld-clarification, is dte
earth or salt of the phil6lsopbers, 'which, uniting itself
·with our single and double mereury, ·their digestion,
called by our master, Hermes, the universal spirit
eartbified. · · ·
67. The extraction, purification, and clarification of our
· or salt of nature, is to be performed by our mercury sim-
plex 1 put upon. earth, wiH pre-
&ently draw to and un1te Itself with It, yet separable by
· distjllation, which the clarified saltof the philosophers
u at hand. ' · · .
6a. we use our !iimplex in·the extraction of
its own aoul out of its body, and for clarification ofthelatter;
.yet, since is a philO¥ophical and perpetual iJ loses
nothiAg of iti .connatural prerogatives, ·nor do'es iu the least dim!-
'
o1git1zed by Coogle
tltblgerus. ·
.tUsh it1 quantity, being our true as Paracelsus is pleased
to cull it.
69. Those three principles, or elements of our chaos, per-
fectly separated from their impurities, and be-ought. to their
highest called the three Herculean works;
fer aH:er the prepuratton of them, all the labour, trouble, and daa-
ger will be pnst. _ -
70. Some foolish operators pretend, that our great elixir ;. -
to be prepared in a very easy manner, and without any trou-
bleat all, to whom we will, with our_
master, Hermes, brjefly
answer ; that such impostors neither know our matter, nor the
right preparncion of it. Yet· we do no' deny, hut any
healthy person, of what age Stlever-he may be, may under-
go all our Herculean labow·s, necessary to the performance
of it.
71. These our operations arc therefore calloo Herculean
in respect to .the rest of work, which is easy.
and without the least trouble or danger, being for that
reason called <;hildrens' plny, because a child or a woman,
has any may .easily work it,_ and bring it to
. h.ghest accordmg to the saymg of all true philo-
sophers.
72. .Altbongh all tlwse aboYe-me11tioned operations are, ae-
cording to the common opinion of the philosophers, esteemed
difficult and dangerous; yet we can upon our con&Cience
assure you, that we have ourselves alone, without the help of
any creature living, prepared them all ob a common kitchen
fire, as is very well known to several co-adeptS, our
friends, who could not but admire and approve of our in-
dastry.
78. No true adept or pet·fect artist can deny, but that the
whole work of the great elixir, may from the very begin-
ning to the end, be performed on one only furnace, in one
only sort of vessel, and by one only person alone, al a very
small charge. _
74. Some impostors would persuade the vulgar, that gold,
silver, and many other ingredients, are required to the malting
of the grand elixir according to our noblest ways; which the
doctrines of·all the philosophers, and our own infallible rules,
clearly shew to be false ; for it is most certain, that we neither
use any of (heir ingredients, nor yet any or gold, unlesa as
we have mentioned in our third way, till we come to·the fermen-
tation of our elixirs.
75. We do with all true philosophers assure you, that all
things, necessary for our philosophical work, besides the
fuel, vessels, and some few instruments, belonging to the furnace,
are to be purchased for less than the expence of one single pi-
Den, and that every where, and at all times ofthe year.
o1git1zed by Coogle
Alchemical Treatises.
'16. Since neither gold nor silver is to he used at a11 iu the·
formation nnd cibation of our philosophical work, it follows,
that the- old and commorr saying of !lome authors, Yiz. " that
without· working with gold, it is an impossible thing to make
gold,, pl'mres to be on}y a faffie notion of men, who understood
nol ouf' art.
77. When our Herculean works arc brought to perfection,
whiol. is, when our three principles, or clements arc prepared,
purified and per&cted, unless thephilo!!ophical and inseparable
U)JiOR of tlrem is eJ..."'tlctly pcrfurmcd, the great mystery of our cre-
ation is not to be expected.
78. 0ur princi7'IC'S or elements being brought to a perfect
and inseparable m1ion and digestion, it is called the triple mer-
CIIl'Y' of the philosophers, which being flnished, the whole crea-
tion and formation of our work is crowned.
79• All our work of the creation from its very begin-
ning to its end may, on our certain knowledge, be
perfected in less than nine months by nny skilful and· careful
utDt; that bllows our roles, unless some accident should
bappett in the prepnrntion of our Herculean works; which
to· pttevent, we wrought them oul'!;elves in an earthen vess('l,
which we count far better and surer than any glass, and
which is most to the practice of the most ancient phi-
so. :BclOrc you come to the union ofyour elements, your cla-
rifted enrth is before a!T things to be digested in a moderate and
ca84!innal hent of ashes, to free it from any unnatural moisture,
thatit might tlave attracted after its purification, to be in a fit ca-
p114'ity tf'l receive your mercury simplex, by which it is to be nou-
rished in its infancy. ·
&1. If your darified earth, after it has been digested
the< space of n whole month, does not appear exceeding
dPy, subritc, and fhmgible, it will signify, that you have
flLited in the purifienti6ln or clarification of it, or that the
external moisture, it had attracted, is not yet parted·
i-bm it.
82·
. Take great estre, that you do not begin your imbi-
bitioR!l' of' _vour earth, before you find it to be very well
clarified', dried; aud brought to be very subtile,
and (')ltl't'mely &angible :-for it would be a great (tetriment
as well to your· work, 3S to your mercury, nnd, nlthough it
should not spoil your work, y.et it would be to you a great loss
of time.
83. Aftt>r our clarified· earth l1as been brongllt to a
pt'l'fect purity, drynC'ss, and frangibility; it is to be imbibed
with the C'ighth p:ut of our mercury simplex, or v!rgin's milk,
whkh will in a Yery short time be soal•cd into it, as into a .
,,.hi1..h shews the hungry state of our infant;-=
o;9,11zed by Google
•
and then the fire is to be continued, till .infant is hungry
again. : ·
84. If in the space of two,or three days, or. four, at the
farthest, the infant does not ahew itself to be extreme hungry
by becoming very dry and frangible again, it· \\·ill be an
evident sign, that you have overcome it by your exceu.ive feed.
ing of it. ·
85. Great care is to be taken also in the feeding of the noble
infuut ; for if you do not well observe all out infallible ral-.
you wiil never be able to bring it to a perfect maturity ; for in
the notion and proportion of 0ur imbibitions, and the manage-
ment of them, the prosperous and unfailable eDd of our work is
to be expected. ·
86. It is always to be observed, that the firebe very moderate,
as long as you are making your imbibitions, for fear of'forcing
any·part ot your mercury to leave the earth; for as a moderate
heat makes the union between the soul and the body, and penec:ts
all the work; 90 on the contrary a too violent heat disunites aDd
destroys all. ·
87. The infant being dry, the it to be repeated
again, and this method is to be used, until the matter has re-
ceived its weight of the mercury ; at which time if you do no&
find it to Jlow like wax, and be whiter than any snow, and. very
fixed, you must proceed with your imbibitions, untilyou pereeiy•
the same.
88. The imbibitions are not to be,made any oftener, than
once every three or four ·days, in which time you will ..find
your matter, having 90aked up all your mercu17., to be in
great of food, which must be supplied, until it be satu•
rated; the mark of which will be, when it flows like
again. Y be' b h. --'!. n 'b'li ·
89. our matter mg roug t to a penect uUXl 1 ty, JD•
comparable whiteness, and unafterahle kpow then,
that you have penectioned the white elixir, which, being
fermented with fine silver in filings, wiU be in a capacity
to transmute all inferior metals into the finest .Uver in the
world.
90. Before the white elixir is fermented · with common
silver, you may multiply it, as well in virtue, ns in quantity,
by the continuat:ion of Imbibitions with the mercury sin1plex,
bl which it by degrees brought ad i1!finitum in its
vutue.
91. The white elixir being brought to its degree ofmaturity, ·
desiring to.go .on to its highest degree of instead Qf
fermenting it with silver, it must be cibated with itsown ftestl
and blood, which is the doublo mercury, by which being
tished, multiplied in and quaQtity, and di&eated, ·the
wliole work is acCOIDpli3hed. . .. . . ..
0 • • • • • • •
o1git1zed by Coogle
15(} ..4tchtfftictd 7"riatises.
. 91. As soon as oe 8rst imbibition is made, you wUJ see a
great alteration in your vessel ; for there will be nothing
seen a. oloud, filHng .the whole space of the t.he
txed t1l«>ntroven;y wtth the volarite,·.and the volaule w1th
thefixed. ·· The is eqnqueror at the beginning, but at last
by its.0wn internal fire, <:OAjoiaed with tile external; both are
united, and fixed inseparably together. .
91J.. It is wne observed, thal the glaaa which must be
with a neck half a fuot long, and very strong, be of a fit
bigness, and ohuch capacity, thllt your matter, wben it is put
into may take up only the third pnrt of it, leaving
the oth8twovaeant; for, ifw.should Qe too it would oo-.Q
great hinderance in performing the work, arid if too little, ia
WOtttd brea'-'iitto·a tbOUMJid pieces. ·
. 9+. After you have: cibatoo noble elixir 1Vith your
1Jl6rcu.y, bef9re · it can come to ita perfect fixed-
it JlllUst of necessity waAder through all the states and
_.ur& of. Mtwe, by which we to judge its beiPg and tem-
.verament. ·
91J. 'l?he co'flstant and essential C()lo...-., that appear in the
Of. dte mattel', a.11d it eomea to a perfection,
il"e three,. viti. bla.ck, wl!idl the puttefaction and
tOMjuMtioo · of u.e element8 ;--weite1 which demonwates
its purifiatjon ;-And l'ed, which· denetea matar-.iOR.-.
rest of the colours,_ that appear and disappea.. *
fie pPogres& of the 'Work, ate only acekielltal, and uncon-
Stant. ··
·96. By every oibatioa of ita own flesh and blood1 rege-o
fteratiaa ef it1l ooloun;, and i*fant wiU grow
aronger nnd ·stronger, that at last bemg hilly saturated
and dige;ted, it is called ·the great elixir of the philoso-.
pben, with· whidt you will be able- to perfui'R} won-
der-s in aU tae Regions, as well animal, aa miAWal,
•hretablt-. .
When yo\l'l" elix1r ia brought to. a' flu»ibility!; mrd a
pel'fcet fb:edness, if you de.il'e to make a medioine upoo metalS!f
you must determinate or ferment ..it with common gold i&
AI in 'which ootei'DliBation it wilt vitrify, aRd .then you
· will an· iRGomparoole to trans-
mute. all i'tnpmfect metals into the pur-est geld, aoCOJ'ding
to t-he '* all the tf\ougb ouraelv-.
never designed any thing, but an universal remedy fOl' the- .
()U1e ora1t cnmble diseasn, inoident to human bodiei, - is. well
to <>ql' w))o ha.n enjoyed the of &heso,
oul' lttbours. . · ·
98. It is to lJe mthe fermeutation, lhat the eli»il"
aeeed ttqt the - qlHmtiJy, ot1Mnrite the sponsal
li&&tent of i\ be a<:t\lally aad U..
D<git•zedbyGoogle j
Urbigerw. 251
ferment is over the elixir, all will be presently
turned into .dust. The beat n1ethqd of ferJ11.entat:ion is to take
one pa,rt of the elixir, aud put it Into the midst of ten parts of
i.n.filings, cast free i.t frool .all i.ts
1mpunues,. and t? Jt Ill. a fire for the space ofsiX
hours, so the fire by degrees, tb.t\t th.e two last hours
it be in a good (usion, and when cold, you will find all you' ·
matter exceeding aod of the of the grauate--
stone.
99: Common mercury, amalscamated lead, is counted
the most. proper subject for making which being
fll6ion, your fermented matter bein(J' divided i.nto
one part ofit rolled in wax, is to be flung upon the amalgam :....;..
then presently coVer the and coi'}tinne tfle fire, U'!Y-Q.
y,oy. the n.o.ise of the separation and .:
¥,cond and thiifi part, as · before, an<:I bemg kept
hours in ·a-·continiJ&l . of. fusion, let it cool ......
• ' WJ
'· 100. Whqever shall to prepate tne great elhi:ir,
acoordine to our most secret ways, withottt folio'wi'ng and ob•
all will tma
mtstaken at last, havmg after a great deal of trouble,
and pain, reaped but ; a!ld on the
they, that sball•alk m our true and mfallibte pathsl
Jhall and attain to
whrch we cordially wtsb to all 6IqCCJ:'e
to the ?hiloaophy. · . .
o1git1zed by Coogle
.
.,
THE SUMr.IARY OF PHILOSOPHY.
1Vritten h!J Nicholas Flamel, tn 1409.
· b you would know how metals are transmuted, you must un·
derstand from what matter are genernted, and how they
are formed in the mines; and that you may not err, you must
see and observe, how those transmutations 111'e pedorrucd in the
bowels or yeins of the earth. . .
Minerals taken out of the eartl1, may be changed, if before-
band they be spiritualized, and reduced into their sulphureous
and argent vivc naturP, which arc the swo sperms, composed
of the elements, the one masculine, the other feminine.-
The male sulphur, is nothlng but fire and air ; aml the true
.sulphur is as .a fire,. but not the vulgar, which contains no me-
tallic substance. .The feminine sperm is argent vive, which is
nothing but earth and water ; these two sperms the ancient
sages called two dragons or serpents, of which, tbe one is
\\·inged, the other not. · Sulphur not flying the fire, is withput
wings; the winged serpent is argent vive, borne up by the wind,
therefore in her certain hour she flies from the fire, not
fixity enough to endure it. Now if these two sperms, separated
from themst'lves, be united again, bv powerful nature, in the
potentiality of mercury, whicli is the metaline fire : being thus
united, it is called by the philosophers the flying dragon ;-
because the dragon kindled by its tire, while he 1lies by little
and little, fills the nir with his fire, and poisonous vapours.-
The same thinE$ doth mercury; for being placed upon an ex-
terior fire, and m its place in a vessel ; it sets on fire its inside,
which is hidden in its profundity ; by which may be seen, how
the external fire does burn and inflame the natural mercury.-
And then you may see how the poisonous vapour breaks out
into the air, with a most stinking and pernicious poison ; which
is nothing else but the head of the dragon, which hastily goes out
of Babylon.
B'!t other philosophers have compared this mercury, with a
flying lion, because a lion is a devourer of other creatures, and
delights himself in his voracity of every thing, except that
which is able to resist hie violence and fury. So also does
mercury, which bas in itself such a power, force, and opera-
Drgitrzed by Coogle
J?/amel; · 253
tion, to spoil and devastate a metal of its f(mn, and to devour
it. Mercury being toa much influenced, devours and hides
metuls in its belly; but which of them so ever it be, it is cer-
tnin, thnt it consumes it not, for in their nnture they are per-
teet, and much more indurate. But mercury has in itself a sub-
stance of perfecting sol and luna; nild nil the impertect bodies or
metals, proceed from argent vive ; therefore the ancients called
it the motberofmetals ; whence it follows, that in its own prin
ciple and centre, being formed, it has a doubl.
e metallic sub
st11nce. And first, the substance of the interior; then the sub
stnncc of sol, which is not like the other metals ; of these two
argent vive is formed, which In its body ls spiritually
nourished. As soon then as nature has formed argent vive,
of the two after-named spirits, then it endeavours to make them
perfect and corporeal; but when the spirits are of strength,
and the two sperms awakened out of their central principlt>,
then they desire to assumf! their bodies. Which being
done, argent vive the mother must die, and being thus natu-
rally mortified, cannot (as dead things cannot) quicken itself as
before. But there are some proud philosophers, who in obscure
words affirm, that we ougl1t to trnnsmute both perfect and im-
perfect bodies into nmriing argent vive ; is the serpent's
subtlety, and you may be in danger of being bit by it. It is
true, that argent vi'Vc may transmute an imperfect body, as lead
Ot" tin; and may without much labour, multiply in a quantity;
but thereby it diminishes or loses its own perfection, and may no
more · for this reason be called argent vive. But if by art it
tnay be mortified, that it can no more \'ivi(v itself, then it will
be changed into another thing, as in cinnabar, or sublimate is
done. For when it is by the art coagulated, whether sooner 0!'
later, yet then its two bo,dies assume not a fixed body,
tlor can they conseJtVe it, as we may see in the bowels of the
earth.
: . Lest nny one therefore should err, there arc in the veins of!cad:
wme .fixed grains or particles of fine sol and luna mixed in its
suhstimce of nourishment. .
·.· The first coagulation of argent ''ive is the mine of saturn; and
most fit and proper it is to bring him unto perfection and
fhcation ; for the mine of saturn is not without fixed particles of
which particles were imparted to it by nature. So in itself
It ·may be multiplied brought to pc1fection, and a vast
power or strength, as I have tried, and therefore affirm it.-
So long as it is not separated from its mine, viz. its argent YiV(\
but well kept, (.for every metal which is in .its mine, the same ia
an argent vive). then may it multiply itself, for that it has sub-
stance from its mercury, or argent vive, but it will be like some
green immature. fruit ?n a tt·ee,. which the blossom ?cing past,
"becomes an unnpe fnut, and then a larger apple. 1f any
D1gi11zed by Coogle
Alchemical. Treatises.
Qlle plucks tbis UIJfipe fruit froJn the tree, chtn its fint forming
would be fry.strate, nor would it grow larger nor ripe ; for
knows not how to give substan<:e, nourishment, .or maturity, 1f0
•·ell as internal natur.e, while fruit yet on the tree,
whjch feeds it wit1t and nourishment, till the
ntaturity accomplished. · ·
And so long also does the fruit ch-aw sap moisture for
and !lourishment, till it comes tq its perfect
&ur1ty. is it with sol ; for if by nature, a g;ain, or
made, and it is reduced to its argent vive, tlien also by the
,ame it is daily, without ceasing, and supplied, and
duce4 int'? its place, viz. argent vive, as he is in ;
then must wait till he shall obtain some substance from his
mercury as it happens in the fruit of trees. For as tPe
argent vive, botli ·of perfect and imperfect bodies is a tree,
so they can have no more nourishment, otherwise thall from their
own mercury. ·
rr the.-efore_you argent vive! r!z·
sol and luna, If they be dJSJOmed from mercury; thmk not
that you, like as nature did in the beginning, may ·:again conjoin
and and without change, alfgment .li'or if.me-
tals be separated froD their mine, tlioen they, like the frutt of
trees too soon gathered, never come to their perfection, aa nature
pod experience makes it appear. · For if an apple or pear
once plucked off fi·om the' tree, it would then be a great .vanity
to attempt to fasten it to the tree expecting it to
and grow ripe; and experience testifies, that the more it is ban-
. dletl, the more ·it withercth. And so it is also with metals: for
ifyou should take the vulgar sol and luna, endeaveuring to
duce them into argent vive, lou wholly play the fool, for
there is no artifice yet foun , whereby it can be performeP.-
Though you should use many waters, and cements, or othe"
things infinitely of that kind, yet would you continually err,.
and that would befal you, which would him that should tieuuipe
fruit to their trees. · ··
· Yet some philosophers h3ve said truly, that if 101
by a right mercury, or argent vive be rightly oonjo;ned, they
will make all imperfect metals perfect; but in this thing moet
men have erred, who having these three vegetables, animhls,
minerals, which in one thing conjoined; fQr that they
sidercd not, that the philosophers speak not of wlgar 10l; luna.
and mercury, which are all dead, and receive no more&llbttance
or increase from nature, but remain the · same in their
essence, without the possibility of bringing· to per•
fectton. · ·
They nre fruits plucked oft'from their trees before their
.and are therefore of no value or esumatioa. Therefore seeK
the fruit in the tree, that lead, them strarickt·w it,· whofle
o1git1zed by Coogle
Ptmnel.
.
is drtily made greatu with increase, 10 loog 85 the tree bean.ia.
This w01·k is ljOOn with joy and ; and. by this meaua
one may transplant the tree without gathering the truit,
it1to .a moister, better, and a more fruitful place, which i11 one
day will give more.nourisbment to the fruit, than it received otheJ;ol.
wise in an hundred years.
In this theref(>re it is \Ulderstood, that mercury, the much
commended mu&t b_
c taken, which has in its power indis-.
solvably &ol and Itwa ; and then transplanted into another soil
nearer the sun, tha.t thence it may gain its profitable increase,
for which tiUog, dew does abundantly suffice ; for where it waa
placed before, it was so weakened by cold and wind, that little.
fruit could be expected from it, and where it long stood aucl
brought forth no fruit at all.
And indeed the philosophers a garden, where the sun u
weU morning as evening remains with a most sweet dew, with..
out ceasing, with which it is sprinkled and moistened ;-whose
earth brings forth trees and fruits, which are transplanted thither,.
which aliid rec.eive descent and nou1·ishment from the pleasant
meadows. Aml this is done daily, and there they are botb.
and quickened, without e:ver fading ; and this more
in one year, than in a thou.sand, where the cold affects them.-
;rake them therefore, aud IJight and day cherish them in ,a dis..
tillatxnj fire; but with a fire of wood or coals, but in a clear.
traniparent fire, not unlike the sun, which is never hotter than
is requisite, but it always alike; for a vapour is the dew, and see<L
ofmetals, which ought not to be altered. .
li'ruits, if they be too hot, and without dew or moisture, they
abide on the but without coming to perfection, only wi..
theriog or dw· away. But if they be fed with heat and
due moisture on tbe1r trees, then they prove elegant and fruitful;
for beat and mo.iatvre are the el.
ements of a,ll earthly things, ani-
mal, veget.,ble, and mineral. Therefore fires of wood and coal
produce or help not metals; those are violent fires, which nou-
ris.h. not as the heat of the sun does, that conserves all corporeal
things ; for that it is natural which they follow.
But a philosop}ler acts not what does ; for nature
where abe rules, torol& all vegetables, animals, and minerals. in
their own degrees. ·Men, 'do not after the same sort, .by their
arts make natural things. When nature has finished her work
about them ; then by -our art they are made more perfect.-
In.this manner the ancient sages and philosophers, for our in..
formation, wrollght on luna and mercury her true mother, of
which they made the mercury of the philosophers, which in its
operation is much stronger than the natural mercury. For this
is serviceable only to the simple, perfect, imperfect, bot nnd
c:old metals; but our mercury, the philosophers stone, is useful'
to t.he more than perfect, imperfect bodies, or metals. Also tl!!1t
o1git1zed by Coogle
!36 .Alcl•emical T1•eatim1.
the mn may perfect and nourish them without diminution, ad-
dition, or immutation, as they were created or tormed by nature,
and so leaves them, not neglecting any thing.
I will not now sa-,, that the philosophers conjoin the tree, for
the better perfectmg their mercury, as some unskilful in the
nature of things, and unlearned chemists nffirm, who take com-
mon sol, luna, and mercuryt and so unnaturally lmndle them,
till they vanish in smoak. These men cndeavou1• to make the
philosophers mercury, but they never nttain it, which is the
first matter of the sto11e, and the first mincra thereof. If you
would come hither and find good, and to the mountain of the
aeaven, where there is no plain, you would betake yourself;
from the ltighest, you must look downward to the sixth, which
'you will sec afitr ott: In the height of this mountain, you will
find a royal herb triumphing, which some have called mineral,
some vegetable, some saturnine. But let its bones or ribs be left,
and let a pure clean broth be taken from it, so will the.better part
ofyour work be done.
This is the right and subtle mercury of the philosophers,
which you are to take, which will make 6rr.t the white work, and
then the red. If you have well understood me, both of them
are nothing else, as they term them, but the practice, which is
so easy and so simple, that a woman sitting by her distaff may
perfect it. As if in winter she would put her eggs under n hen,
and not wash them, because are put under a hen without
walihing them, and no more labour is t•equired about them, ·than
that they should be every day turned, the chickens may
be the better and sooner hatched, conccrmng the which enough
is said.
But that I may follow the example, first, wash not the
but take it, and with its like, which is fire, place it in the ashcsp
which is straw, and in one glass which is the without any
other thin" in a convenient alembic,. which is the house, from
whence will come forth a chicken, which witli its blood will free
U.ee from all diseases, and with its flesh will nourish thee, and
with its feathers will clothe thee, and keep thee warm from the
injuries of the cold and ambient air. this cause I have
written this present treatise, that you may sea1·ch with the greater-
and walk in the right way. And I have written tbia
smnll book, this summary, that you might the better compre-
hend the sayings and writings of the philosophers, which I be-
lieve you will much better understand for time to come,
o1git1zed by Coogle
..
THE. HERMETIC ME!tOURIES
. . . .,..
•
or
RAYMOND LULLY,
With a l!reface and' Notesfrom, J. S. Weidenfeld.
. '
Great indeed, yea vast is tne treasure of odr cbym.y ; but.
altogether inaccessible to those who have not the keys thereof;
hy which alone the adepts could either <tissrilve ot
C9agulate bodies. If you know not the way of dissolvins our
body, .it is in vain to opel'ate, is the advice of Dionysius-
Zachanns, /age 798, vol. 1. Th. Cbym. But he that knows
the art an secret of dissolution, ·l1as attained to the secret
of the art, saith Bernard, page 40, sure Epistolte. For this
.cause it is, saith Parisinus, that the wise men say, to know
the celestial water, which reduceth our body .into a spirit, ia
the cbiQf. of this art, in .Eloc• .page il2. vol. ·1. Th.
Chym. For without thaedissolvents, things heterogeneous can
never be perfectly mixed. Coral, though ever so finely pulve-
rized, cannot be mixed w
. ith the purest powder of pearls ; yea
itOld miJ'dda. not with aUver. k.s. wich bodiee 1.- perteet,
.Uiough both be m$ed tQgetoor; the partklea ofeaqhdQ indeed
wucli one ano.cbel-.in their ctxtreme.p.nt, in amasser heap:
of tllitlgs bet.erogeiwoue. they are and do .r'maia
all.di8tioat, &nd unaJ.tertld in their fjglll'et' an<l·pro-
aootherwise than • a heap ootpposed ofbarley.a.nd
But in the more iecret ehymy there it no bedy,. BO
but wbat hath ita own ·peculiar clis&Qlvent, and wbich M
to it, it run$ into one <JQnqrete, rejQicing iD.
the inteparable properties of Metale are not only tho
.latt:Mr, but .are .Iso by Lully, tho form of the IWile ;
without theee clissolveau dley aiguity nothing. The
·whkh is Ghe etlleies1t principle, former and transfo,rme.&· Qf
other forJnt of le.e virtue and power, is described by C.
(JDetAUs) cannot of it10lf only be the magistery of the
work, &c. Very cormnodious it is for that principle to bt
known, the know• it to be en•
1 1
o1git1zed by Coogle
!58 .Alchemical Tt•tatisea.
of the two eubatances, from which our infant is produced, luw-
ing- it the condition of a male, frdm whieh proceeds a sperm
in the belly of our D. (or dissol•ent1} Lui. Dist. s. Lib. Ess.
Heaven or mercury i. the fourth principle· signified by D.
It is the cause and principle moving C. (metals) from· power to
aeti<_>n, and in its as .the .wom.aa
the mfant which she procreates ui her matr1x. And m th1s pomt
knows the understanding of an artist, that D. (dissolvent) hath
action upon C. rulipg, gov!'!)"nitlg, ud reducing them into
C'f'en as the heavens above do by their motion, bring
things elementary into action. And an artist is to understand
that ofthe two substances, of which our stone is compounded,
and by which it is generated, this, namefy, D'. (dissolvent)
is the more principal, Ibid. In the Book de.Medicinis secretis,
page 886, he goes must know, saith he, that hitherto
I have not told you the most secret tf1ing and matter of the whole
snagistery, which is our incorruptible quintessence, extracted
out ofwhite or red wine, which we cmll celestial and the
dissolvent after t1le sublfmations, putrefactions, and final depl!-- '
ration of it; which quintessence is indeed the foundation, prin-
cipal matter, and magistery of all medicinal things. My son, i.f
you have it, you·willl1ave tl1e magistery ofthe whale thing,
can be done;_
' . . '1 '·
. : .
Spirit of Wint-.Li'b. dt qUinta esserrtia.
Take wine ted ot white, neitbet too little nor too·touch ther.eef;.
tnd distil an !lrdens, as the and then rect!fy
for better put1ficatton. But I tell you 1t MJ enoug'h to rectifY ll
three times', and stop ·it that the burning spirit may not
exhale. Take that, aDd put it in a circulating vessel,
which1wcnlled the vessel of Hermes, and stop the hole Yery close
with olibanum or mastic being soft, ot quick lime miud with
the white of eggs, and if a continual heat be administered to it
continuail circulations, our quintessence will be separated in
tlte colour of .heafen, which may be seen by a diametrical line,
which divides the upper part, that _is. the quintessence, fn>m the,
lowet, Bamely, from the fieces, which. are of a muddy colour.
Cireulatio!l being .continued many days, the hole which you ,
ttopped with the•satd matter, mua.t be opened, and a wonder-.. '
ful scent will issue out, 10 ftll that no fragrancJ of da world can
W w it.
o1git1zed by Coogle
Zlaymo11d Lully.
. W the ,of the .n? one
.
ts .made without the vcgetab.Ie mercury, or spmt of phifoso-
phical wine; for _
it is the fouo_dation, beginning end of them
aU. YCI,Lit is ac,cording the and distinct ofiti
sotnet.!mes the lf)Bost, sometimes the of it,H .the
d,IssoiVents. It 1s the least f\llC) weaJ<.est, 1t doth by its !11m..
ple dissol_re only the unctqous or oily parts of
tables! but e1,the.r re;cct ot leave the r.emainper
less mly and hc,terogeneou.s tO it bec,om,es strongest
when we temper its unctuosity with arids, (that is, dry things,
o!ly) for so i,t is made hom.ogeneous to thi1.1gs dry-oily, and
th1ngs merely dr,Y.. · In .r.espect of the
d.1ssolvcnts of the adepts differ from the cop1mon, because they
d? by reas?n,of tbc said homogenci.ty, w,ith tpe things
d.l.ssol:ved : yea, nre by hut
1"1th the lqast satura'tton, transmut;d ,and mel,rep mto a thll'd
SO cannot part witflout the OJ' d&-
&tructJon of their former virtues. · You nre not to take the
spi!it .of .wine, ever so mpch ·for the
phtlosophtcol spm.t of wmc : for :;o fo1).ow1pg d'ssolvents
w_ould be .lied,ucing. · ·
Common wine is hot, but there is another sort mucJt
whose bJ lienS®, ofipl kindle<J
J>y fire, nn(l the tartar ofthis unctuous humour is th1ck ; for
saith Raymond: tluit tartitr is blacker thim tl)e tartar from the
black. grapes of Catalonia; whereupon it is called NiSI:_Um
is, black thiui bl.ack ; hu::-
mubty belng unctl,tous, doth therefore better agree wtth the
U,I_JCtuosit,1 Of' metals, the spirlt .extractecl fropt
wtne, because by its liquefactive virtue, JJletals arc
spirit qf
·.
· It sp!rit of win_e
appears two forms, hke pll upon nil h- -
9uors, orlike the spirit of common ·wme (to the of
It comes 10metimes ne11-rer, and ther.efore do.th from the analogy
borrow iis name)'not swimming upon JVaterv liquors, but mixil>le.
its own phiegm : yet' separable by distilla:-
tion, It easily bJ this means Jcaying its phle_gms bebmd 1t; but If
being and it wholly it u$
common sign ofperfect rectification of tlie common 11pmt, htJt
howenr, they are not two, but Qne cmly spirit, differing in degree
of purity and· subtilty. Distinction must be made between thP;
first and second spirit of philosophical wine, father and son.-
The first doth in its preparation require laborem sophire, the ·
most secret, difficult, arid dangerous work of aU true chemistry•.
'fhe second is easilymadewith the former ·according to the
rerfect chemistry, .
Dig,!lzed by GoogIe
Alchetnic«l Trenti&tt.
Our dissolvent, Lully, the animal,
which is called quintessence, preserves .fte!!h from corrqption,
comforts things l!lemented,. restore$ former _youth, vivifys the
spirit, digests the crude, hardeneth tl1c soft, rarities the hard,
fattens the lean, wasteth the cools the hot, heats the cold,
dries the moist, moistens also the dry; -one and the same thing
can do contrary operations. The.act of one thing is
accordiug to the of the.receiver; as the heat of tlJc sun,
hath contrary operations_; as in. clt\y, and melting
; yet ·act_· of the sun lS one m 1tsclt, aml.not contrary
to ltsel£
Like heaven, it receives the forms of all thing5. . As the
universal form (the macrocosmical heaven) hath an appetite
to every fOrm, so the quintessence (of philOiophical wine)
te every coroplexion; whereby it is evidently manifest, that the.
quintessence of is said.to be complexion to which it
is adjoined ; ifjoined to hot, hot ; if to cold, cokl, ate. This,
therefore the philoiOphe" called heaven ; because as heaven
Nfords us sometimes heat, meisturc, &c. so the
in mens' bodies at the 'rti_
st's pleasure, &c.-
Distinct•.1. Lib, Esscntire. To tlti$ he11vcn we l\pply its stars ;
which are plants, and to commt1nicate to us life
8Jld health, Ibid. :
. .Like heaven, moveth all fi·om power to act.-
Therefore or our mercury is th(! ca115e and
moving C. (metals) &om power to ac_t; and _in this point
knows thff understanding of an artiat, that D. (our heaven)
hath •ction .upon C. and and it
into action ; as heaven brings tliat which is ip
by its own. motion into action, &c. For .we call
heaven, by reason of its lJlotion ; because II$ the qpper.
moves the universal form, and first matter, and clements.
and senses, to coJDpound elenientefl inpividqals; so D. moves·
C. and the four to .M. (the slilphur of or phi•
. losophcrs mercury) or to Q. Distinct. 3. de
principio Libri •.··. · .·· ' . .
Like heaven, it .is . Aqua vitre is tl1e liOW
and life of bodies, b_y which our is vivHied ; we
call it heaven, and quintessence, and incotnbustible ail, and
its infinite other names, because it i11 ia..corr¥Ptible almost; as
heaven"- in the continual. Af ·its motio».,
Elucid. Testam.. · · · · · '· ·· ·
It is oftbc colour ciarity •. · or our m,eP..
cury is the fourth prh1ciple in t11is art, aiid is signified bf D. of
an azure colour and Jin.e, and signified by that colour,
it is celestial, antl of a celestial .nature, as bef9.re in the
·of i» D.ist. tH,>. ' . ·· · · .
o1git1zed by Coogle
Raymo1Ul Lully. t61
J.lchcmic Spirit ofSpice-TJol. 3. J). 193" Theat. Clzem.
First you must kllflw, that tlte matter of our stone, or of all
tlte stones of the philosophers, together with precious
which aTe generated or by art, is tbis metallic S()Ul,
aud our·dissolvent rectified and a<.uatoo, or the lunaria crelica,
·which among.the philosophers is vEJgetnble.mercury, pro.
duced ffom wme red OJ' white, as Is dearly mamfest, .bemg re...
to by Ood, in .our Figura Individuorum, Distinct. ,.
Libr1. Qtnnt. Essent. &c. ·
But first, it is expedient to draw our dissolvcnt by art from
death, that !s, the impurities .of wi?e, by offiec=
of an and to acuaf.#! It In du;tillatwn w1th pertment ve-.
getables; such as are apium sytvestre, squilla, solatrum, carduus,
·oliandrum, piper nigrum, euphorhium, viticctla or flammula, and
pyrethl'llm, an equal quantity of all, and pulverized.
the dissolvent must be circulated continually for the space of ten
days in B. M. . · .
unctuous of ehilosophical
wine attracts none hut · the unctuous e&senccs of vegetables.
Essences being thus extracted, as also all .other oily things.
or expressed, and. an distilled of both .kingdoms,
animal and vegetable, this spirit of wine doth by simple
digestion divide into two paFt!i, two oils or fats,
wliereof ·one is t1te essence of the thing, the other thebody.-
The essence so made we. named the second spirit of wine. Both
essences, this by division, and that by extraction prepared, are by
longer digestion made one with the aforesaid spirit ofwine. For .
those things which are of one and the same purity, and ofa symbo-
lical nature, are easily mixed together, and that inseparably, and
so un essence made by an essence, isjoiucd to that essence. And if
we protract di!lCStion further, one of the fats, namely, the body
less oily, and tCerefore left hitherto, is at length received also into
a symbolical nature, by reason of which mixtion, not only is the
spirit multiplied, but also made fitter for the dissolutions of dry
thiqgs, bcca.ue the .piU'f.icles thie body lea oily incline to dry·
neS£ ; concerning which way we weat in this receipt, in the-pre.
scription of which, oil drawn t>Ut 0f oily vegetables, is by
c:&lillation :together with the spit-it of philosopltical wine, ci!'cu...
a magiatecy, by which the spii'it of wine is multiplied,
and made PlQr.e to dry bodies. There is the same
dissolvent, but·a little otherwise described in his Natural Magie,
p. 858, thus ; take nigrum nigrius nigro, and distil teii or eigl!t
o1git1zed by Coogle
Alchemical Trtatists.
parts of the same in a _glass vessel, and in the first distillation
you must receive only one half; this again distil, and hereof
take a fourth part ; and the third distiijatiou you ;mJJst take j.J1
n manner all, and so distil that part eight or nine times, and it
will be perfect, but not rectified under one and twenty dil4il,.
lations. Take of this water a quarter of a pound, and acuate
the same QY distilling with the . yegetables, which are
apiom sylvestre ; and so of the rest, of WiJS spokeq
alxJve. .
The matter of which thl!$ dissolvent is made, is ealle,<l wine ill
the former receipt : the dissolvent must be extracted from the
death· of wine ; but in the lattf!r is nigrum, nigriu•
nigro. To these two Lully adds a t}ilrd synommous. p. 1. Test,
n?vissimi: ;edwine; which we call 11q.uorof an(J
rugrum mgnus . .
Wine, lunaria, nigrum :nigr.ius nigr0, matter of the
dissolvent of vegetable mercury or so'ufof ;metals, is not com'l'
moo, but philosophical wine; nor is the spi,it of this wine
the but philosophical aqJia The unctuous
spirit of philosophical wine acuated, that is, tempered with
common unctuosity of vegetable oils ; digest, and distil any
c_ommon distilled oil with the spirit of pln101i0phical wine, and
you 'Yill obtain a dissolvent of the second kind mu.ch soortcr;.yea,
you will make the same in .a moment, if you mix the essence
(spirit) wine with #Je magistery of an oily ve-
One oily vegetal:>le (saftron or macis) of so many, is
sufficient for the acuation of the spirit of philosophical wine;
nor yet will you err, if' you take treacle; which spirit of tr_eaclc,
made with this spirit of wine, will be a dissolvent of
These dissolvcnts are medicines, .
The Alclzemic Spirit of Honey-Cap. 19. Lib.
Take of a.qua vite, and put into this vegetable humidity
a third part of a honey-comb, with all its substance, wax,
and honey together, ferment, or digest it in a gentle heat
for three hours, and the longer it stands, the better it is : then
let it be distilled in balnco, and repeat the distillation and fer-
mentation nine times, renewing the comb every
tillation.
o1git1zed by Coogle
llaytnond Lully. 263
I
WEJDENr:£Ln-The spirit of philosopllical wine hath in dry
things no dissolving faculty without acuition. This acuition is the
mystery of the art, being difficult and tedious. It is best made with
crude honey, white sugar•candy, and manna purified. Such dis-
solvents as these are somewhat hard to be made with crude tar-
tar. Lolly by aqua vitre, Parisinus by the celestial and ardent
spirit, Guido by spirit of wine, and Paracelsus by the alcool of
wine, meant not common aqua ardens, which if a man try, he
will by his own experience find. . . · ·
Hitherto of things oily acuating the spirit of philosophical
wine :-now follow those things which are less oily, volatile.
salts, 1Vhich though they seem not to be oily' yet that they are
10 is easily by the following preparations .of.salts
hatmol'liac, whose earths, otherwise most fixed and flowing. like .
wax, are by the unctuosity alone ofthe dissolvent made vplatile.
but this will not now' be our inquiry. It sufficeth us to use cruda
and common 681 armoniac, salt .of urine,. blood, &c. for the
of the. of philosophical wine, which salts do .by
their aridity alter the unctoosity of this spirit, more than the
aforesaid matters, and consequently make .the vegetable dii.-
tQlvent st1·onger.
The .Alchemic Spirit of U1ine-Erp. 8.
, '.
Take of fhe animated (of urine) one part, and of
aqua vitre perfectly rectified four· parts, which pour upon
the animated spirit, and forthwith stop the ?esse}, that it
may not respire, which vessel must be a large bottle, which
make and move your hands, so in the twinkling of an
or moment, you will see nll the water converted into salt ;"-
but if any part of phlegm be in the philosophical aqua vitm,.
it will be immediately separated from the salt in the form of
water ; the aqua vitre therefore ought to be very well ·purged
from all phlegm, that, when the work is, done, no matter may
remain with the salt, but be wholl,Y converted, which will be
better and more useful, and by: this means you will have the
animal and vegetable salt, which we will call and
gelative sulphur, because it hath the property and virtue of
dissolving the two luminaries, and reducing them from power
to act, \heir vegetative aud gerw.iDatin form being
D1g1tized by Coogle
Alch1mical Treatl&el.
Alclutnlc of Tartar-Exp. 3+.
Take best aqua vitre, rectified so, as to.burn a linen
Cloth, as you have operating with me, and therefore
no need of amplit)ring to you the magistery of this water.
Take therefore of aqua vitm four pounds, and put it a
glass urinal (cucurbit) which is very sound ;-·then tnke of .
ihe 'fegetable salt sublimed of the second experiment (vola·
tile salt ()f tartar) one pound, grind very well, and pp.t it in .
the- aqua vitre, lute the vessel with its antimotorium (blind '
firmly, with w!lx gummed, that nothing may re-' ·
spire, then putrify two natural.days ; after that take away the .
antenotorium, and put on an alembic with its the
joints being very close, and distil upon hot ashes. Take no- ·
tice, that the receiver must be very large and tliat it
may not be broken by the force of the aqua vitre, and thus con-
tinue your distillation with a slow fire, till all be distilled
through the alembic. But if any part of the salt remain in
the bottom of the vessel, pour it again upon the water now
lately distilled, and distil befOre,., making joints as close
as may be; the distillation repeat in this order, till all the salt
be passed through- the alembic in the form of clear water.-
Then put of the aforesaid salt one other pound into an urinal,
and pour the same distilled water to it ; cover with ita
antenotot·ium. as before, putrify as before, theJ,t dlstil'as :t>efote ; .
and when .all the salt is passed over, wifh the ·
as before Of new vegetable salt olie pound, an.d pass. It .
U.rough the alembic again, as befbre, with. the.· i:
and by this means you will ha(e those pounds' of aqua.1
united with three pounds of the vegetable salt; · which
the power of dissolving the two luminaries sUvet):
and all the other metnls, with pt'eservation ot the'
Jorm. But now we intend to reduce this simple into
a celestial form :-Take therefore this simple dissolvent, and
put it in a sound glass vessel, (a circulatory) four parts of which
must be empty, but the fifth full: stop the vessel so as not to
evaporate, and circulate in dung or balneo sixty natural days;
and by this metlwd will you have a clarified dissolvent, in ·
which you will see a sediment,·wherefore empty the celestial
water into another vessel, and have a care that no sediment
pass over with the water, which you must keep very close in
Laluco. ·
o1git1zed by Coogle
Lwly. .!65
Sph·it of the Adepts Sal Harmo11iac.
LuHy having prescribed several acuators ofthe spirit of philo-
- aophical wine, speaks at length of acuating this spirit with theee·
salts philosophically volatilized. saiih he,·' our dissolvent,
which is the quintessence ot wine:, be depurated from · all
phlegm, and acuated with the philosophers armoniac, because
it cannot otherwise dissolve gold, nor precious stones ; bitt let
the philosophers sal armoniac be well purified, that is, sub-
limed, and cleansed from all terrestreity and uncleanness, accord-
in" to the manner ofthe philosophers ; of which philosophical
safarmoninc we have indeed treated largely in our book, De in•
tentione Alchemistarum, dedicated to the most illustrious King
Robert, in the chapter de Salibus Armoniac, &c. and in Clau-
sura Testamenti, othet·wise called Vade mecum, in ,the chapter
which begins, Partus Verre Terrre. . There you may read from .
first to last the magistery of making and purifying, together
with the virtues and energies of tflis salt. And know, my son,
that whatsdever we write . in that chapter, 'we mean that salt
an.d nothing else: .Read chapter, because no-
thmg can be done m the magtstery w1thout that salt, for that
is the thing with which we acuate our dissolvent, to dissolve
gold, and precious stones, ·and as well for human medi-
. cines, as for a metallic magistery, and to make pearls
and prectous stones.' · . · '
These sal armoniacs ·nre ·,called sulphurs of nature. ' In
the preparation of' philosophical witle . is an
· !s called sulphur, existetit in the mercury, coagu-
.latmg Jts own mercury ; for sake ofwhich earth1· · tl1ey called
every other exanimated and fixed sulphur; but the animat- ·
ed spirit (essence, tincture, &c.) they termed mercury, to be coa-
gulated by this sulphur, but both of them being reduced into <m.
e
body, and sublimed, they called sulphur of nature, not more
fixed1 but sublimed. ·
.Alchemic Spirit of Quicksil1Jer-Jtov. Testam.
Take of common atgent vive one pound, put it in a glass
1and pour upon it of the vegetable dissoLvent 110 much
u to swim tour fingers above it, set it in balneo or dung six days,
.and will be all dissolved into. a glorious water, tbe
X k
o1git1zed by Coogle
Alchemical Treatise&.
di11110lvent gently by balneo, and at the bottom of v-essel
will remain the light of pearls, and of metals. This we
meant in the chapter whieh begins: Oportet nos cum eo incipere,
& cum eo finire. Then take of this glorious water of argent
vive one pound, and mix it with two pounds of the vegetable
«lia&olveat, C4leli1icated, and it will all ·become one wnter, with
which you will dissolve all aa well perfect aa; impe1-fett, fur
the production o{ QUr .
JJfercuf'iate of Silvtr-Exp. 24-.
Pat common mercury in thQse vessels, (Wolrs apparatas)
ltowl distil with repetition, till it turPs all into water, u
I taught yau above ; then take four ounces of this mercurial
water, and tbereh,1 di&S()h·e one oURce of the vegetable mercury
9f the experiment (salt of tartar sublimed, or vegetable
.eal iP'IDOniac made of the salt of tartar) pass it through an
"lembic, together with the aforesaid mercurial water, then in
e1rery four ounces of the water, dissolve one ounce of mercury
•• before (tbt ia putrify eight days, then
distil by ashes, increase the fire at laet, that so it may pass into
r.hat which was distilled, in which diSSQlve half an ounce of
cupellated, t)len putrif:y three days, then distil in
and lastly increase the fire a little, that all the clearness, or
whiteness of the lupa may go over by an airy resolution in thi1
distillation. · · .
WEIDENFELD-These are stronger than all tliean-
tecedent, as being with better arids, or dry things, and
therefore do llOt the essences, but diSilolve the whole body
into a magistery. Thete dissolvents are the magisteries of metals
and minerals, andtherefore medicines. The sal
are made the same ways as vegetable sal armoniacs. EverY. one
of them is properly called philosophers mercury, or mercury of
the mercury of gold, silver, iron, &c. sublimed; the mercury
of antimony, common sulphur, &c. sublimed, because like
common mercury sublimed, it is most easily resuscitated by hot
water or vinegar, into the rnw1ing mercury ofgold, silver, i,ron,
&c.
' Mercurial watera are called ignes gehennre, by reason of thi•
. · nature of argent vive, the corrosive specific was because of
· the mercurial water called by Paracelsus ignis gehenne.
ie Speci£ page 29. The maju&, , ptepal'ecl frOIIl,
o1git1zed by Coogle
mereury, he eaHs a living fire, IDI'Kt ell.t:NI'ne fire.· aad e<2lestial
fire. .
If you would bring into actioa, saith he, (the life of antimony .
hidden in its regulus) you that life with
like living fire, or metallic vinegar, with which .fire many of
the philosophers proct.'Cded severa-l ways, bitt in th!l
foundation, they all hit the intended .mark, &c. Yet that fire,
or corporal lite in common mercury, is foW1d much morE! per..
feet and :mblime, which manitestly proves by its Bowing, that
there is a most .absolute. fire, ·aud cmlestial life hidden in k;
wherefore whoever desires to his metallic heaven
(the arcanum lapidis, or anumonia) to the highest, and redu4!e
It to action, he must first extract the first liquid being, as tba
c:<l!le.tial fire, quintessence, and metallic acetum acerrimwn out
of the corporallik, (conunosa mere"?} &c:, Liwo. 10. 4rchid,
cap. 6. p. 89.
Take the liquor of lunaria or dae Gl' ·aeooad rectiti<:a-o
tion, (phUosopbical aqua arocieQs. rectmed) it upon ar-
gent vive, eo aa to swim three above it, au4 putrify thra.
uatural days, and a great·part o• it will be disaolv<!d
. with the
W$ter of luwuia, which decant, 8lld pow' fresh liqnor upon
the fteees. putrify in dung or· balueo, aJJd till all
mercury is reduced into water, then joU. all the· dlstillations to.
getber, and draw off in baloeo,1and when you see it in a manner
thick, so as to be half a pound oi the water of mercury and
argent vive, (vegetable I!Dd mineral) putrify lix·Qatural days,
then put in pearls, and will within ten ·hours·be diseolved,
then exuberate them by the way, which I taught in the
ration of metals, till they be converted into a sal armoniac, or
eulphur natane of wbeJ'eof diseolve one ounce in a
:pound of its dissolvent aforesaid, &Qd distil four tianes, then
m pearls,. and will U. half 11- quarter of an hour be dissolved, ·
by reason of the greater subtlety of.the dissolveot; As silver
isjoined to the mercurial dissolveQt made by the three fire-bot
'YeSllels, for the Neapolitan dissolvent, (which may be so calle<l,
because it was revealed to Lully at Neapolis by Arnol4 4e villa
nova) so this dissolvent for pearls is made of the sal armoniac
of pearls, and the mercurial diasolvent, or gloriaua water ofIQer-
cury, which be together a convenient yoa
will m.ake thereof a cwhJm perlatum.
o1git1zed by Coogle
26S .A.lcltemictrl Trcatists.
WEID'EN"n'LD-Hitherto we hawe by argent vive either'
the spiritofphilosophical wine, or dissolvents made with this spirit,
which had so good a·faculty ofdis.solving, that most of the adepts
being content with these merc.urial waters, desisted t\·om inquiring
after stronger dissolvents. The mercurial wuter, which Lully
terms glorious, he saith, is sufficient, yao, a proper dissolvent
to make the philosophers mercury, or metallic sal armoninc, out
of gJl and minerals. You must know, saith he, my son I
that in the truth an<l faith of God, no sulphur of nature of ·any
metal can be sublimed without this water of common argt>nt vive.
Test. Noviss. p. 1'J.
But in this ninth kind of dissolvents, the adepts made yet
other dissolvents, adding moreover divers bodies, according to,
the intended several mes to the aforesaid mercurial waters. Lully,
to make a more noble dissolvent for the dissolution of gold, added
silver to tl1e mercurial dissolvent. If perhaps he wanted a dis-
solvent for pearls, he joined pearls with the mercurial dissolvent ;·
if he had a mind to make aurum potabile, he prepared a dissolvent
out of gold and silver, as more suimble tp- this purpose, yet with
some mercurial dissolvent, and so of others.
Dissolvents may •and ought to be made according to the de-
signed uses, for they arc desired not only to dissolve bodies pro-
nuscuously, but rightly also, that the tinctures of things dissolved
may not by any tinctures of the dissolvents be in-
quinated, but rather illustrated. Thete dissolvents being once
compounded, the oftener the composition is repeated by adding ·
new matter, are endowed with so much agteater virtu&; whereas
on tl1e contrary it is manifest, that common dissolvents are this.
wfly debilitated. These dissolvents are most fragrant, and.olex-
c:eeding sweetness and redness, yet nevertheless called acetum
ncerrimum, which dissolves gold into a spirit. These di5solvents
are the essences or magisteries ofi metals made by magisteries or
essences, and mixed together into compounded circulntums.-
These compounded may be made not only of gold
and silver, but also of imperfect· metals and minerals ; and sal
armoniae may be made of cor$ls, or other arids, as well as
pearls. .
· The first ·matter of mercury is a wherefore it is not to
be used for human medicines, hut metals only, yet if this incal-
cinated dissolvent be circulated as the rest, :it beromes harmless,
and an excellent medicill'e. ' · .. ·
• I .
l-i'
' . ' ;
I .
o1git1zed by Coogle
Raymond Lully• 269
.Alchemic Gems of the Metals.
Tnke the water of mercury, made by the way, which we
declared in our ·New Testament, (Numb. 7) and in that water,
$On ! you must dissolve one halfounce of the purest luna, after
the nltcred di!lSolution, separate the water from the (distil
di.ssolvent the .silver an alembic) in which-the
liJJl()SJty of the silver. will ascend ; thJs water, son ! resolves all
other bodies, and nrgent vive itself, by virtue of which, son !·
pearls are reformed by the way whieh I told you in our Testa-
mentum, amlin the Compendium supE!r Testamentum & Cadi-
cilium missum Regi Roberto.
The second water is thus made: take half an ounce of lead,·
and of the aforesaid .water as much as sufficeth, when you see
the lead dissolved, separate tl1e by filtered distillation,
(niter the dissolution of the lead) and throw out the freces, as
nothing worth, tl1en distil the water by balneo (draw off the dis-- ·
eolvent in balneo) and keep the. freces {the dissolved lead) for·
occasion.
The third water is thus made : take of copper one -ounce, '
and dissolve it in as much of the first water as you please, and
Jet it rest in its vessel, in a cold place, for a natural day, then
separate the green water through a filter, and pour out the first
tieces, (that which remains in tf\e filter must be -east away)
then distil the water through an alen1bic, ru.td keep the second
fmces.
· The fourth· water is thus made : take one ounce of tho
purest tin .of Cornwall, which is purer than any -otl.ter, and
dissolve it in a of.the a!ld distil (through
a filter) that (<hssolutiOn) wtth 1ts bmostty, nnd the freces·
which remain cast away, then distil the water through an
alembic, and keep (the residue, or tin dissolved) the second
fmces. - ·
The fifth wtrter is thus -made: take of the iron
ODe ounce, and dissolve it in a sufficient quantity of the
first water, then distil through a filter, and cast away the
distil the water througli art alembic, and keep the second
:fileces.
The sixth water is thus made : take of the purest gold we
ounce, and dissolve it as I told you in my Testalllentum, that ia,
with pure lunaria (the simple veget.able dissolvent without ar-
gent vive and silver) mixed with such a weight of the fifth
water, {now prepared from iron) and do as you did w_ith the
dther:• .
o1git1zed by Coogle
270 Alchrmical T1·eati&es.
You mny also, son I dissolve a11 those metals in this order :
Having made the water, in it dissolve the metal, which·
\ve .commanded you to dissolve after the S()Cond way, (to wit lead)
then do with it as we told you In this second
water dissolve the third metal, (copper) and in the water of
the third metal dissolve the fourth metal, (tin) and in the
water of the fourth metal dissolve the fifth mota}, (iron)
and hl the water of the fifth metal dissolve the mth metal,
(gold.)
Take which of those waters rou like beat to dissolve.a metal. ·
Son ! these limosities of metals are called quintessences, or
mineral mtll'cury, which the ·philosophers esteemed in the a].
chemical wo1·k (in alehemical tinctures) and the lapidific, (in
the making of precious aR<l in the medicinal work (U. the
prepaTing of medicines.) But soo I in the alchemical work
those ought to be more subtil, and to be d9ne by
qividing the elements, but in (making precious) stones, the
quintessence (aforesaid) are not 80, in such a wbtil matter, but
in medicine eidler of them·(this two-fold way of preparing) m'f·
he used. .
Having spoken of the quintessences of minerals (of metallic
waters) bow we ore to make them, it ia now convenient to.speak
of the division of them in general. And my son I do thu•i·
vrhcu your metals are dissolved, you must divide every water
first filtered and distilled from its remainder) and evelj
vided water (now distilled) into two parts, and ene part ofevery
partyou must put with its own fmces (the remaining metal which
the water bad left in distillation) into a glass alembic, and distil
a· limus descrti, which is .air made out ot two bodiea, (or metal&.)
in the furnace, which we designed you first with agentle
fire, shining with great minsrallustre, and with great limosity
appropriated to receive celestial virtues : and put every one,
of those waters into a glass vCSiiel, with a long nook and round,
and then stop the mouth of it with common wa.x, and after that
with mastic, and every of those. veasela put in the open air so,.
hs that neither stone, nor anv other hurttul 'bing mar touch!
the glass. Son ! take the "material fieces, from wh1ch yo.a,
t·c;;olved tbe limus, which are the second flecea left in the distil•
Jation of the waters which you put in the air. (Take the t;apwl,
-ruortu.um fi·om the distillation ofevery limns or the tbiJod:
for the firlit remainingin the filter werttcut away, from the·
second the limus dcscrtus was distiJled ; now the f&!ces of the lim1MI,
desertus, urc those which he here callsthe second) and put them
iu a glasl; with a long uedt, which may CJQntain W'O·
...n ,adth, nnd put in part of its own water, .w.bich wait
reserved from that. atoresniu limous:substance, the ves--
11 :,topple of wax, and leather and muti(), 8$ yQU·
did to the 01.hcr, aud bury tben1 lWater of Jil.etals) jp •
by Google
Raymond .Lullg. .!'71
garden, in J1l eArth half a y..-d deep, aadput also aomething
abou the neck of the vessels, which may appear abcwe ground,
for the preservation of them, and let them be there for one
whole/ear. Son I the waters which are put into the earth
are o one nnture, and those which are put in the air of ano-
ther; for son I those which are put into the earth have a har-
dening, coagulating, and flxing virtue and quality ; and
which are in the air, have the virtue and property of being har-
dened, coagulat<.>d, and flxed. The year being ended, you wiU
lla'I'C all t,hat is desired in the world for work, &c. Lib. Quint.
Essen. Canon. 4-3.
WEIDENFELn-Hitherto we have mixed or tempered
unctuous spirit of philosophical wine with things oily, dry-oily,
oily-dry, and purely dry, and reduced them to divers of ve--
getable dissolvents; in which we have exhibited dissolvents every
way absolute and perfect, in smell, taste; and colour incomparable,
dissolving without hissing or effervescence, and permanent with
things dissolved. Now follow in order, those which are called mf..
neraldissolTcnts, which though they be of a stinkin8' smell, of an
11cid or corrosive taste, and for the most part of a milky and opake
ro)our, and dissolve bodies with very great violence and cotrositYI'l•
ret having the same spirit of philosophical wine, ..
the vegetable dissolvents for their foundation, are therefore as
permanent as they, yea better than they as to the abbrevistion 0£
time; for the acidity of mineral sa)ts (for which corrosive or acid
dissolvents called minera) cannot destroy the nature of tho
apirit of wine, nor the nature of the vegetable dissolvent, but by
corroding makes the particles of dry bodies more apt to unite
themselves,with the oily spirit of philosophical wine ; but if that
acidity be taken away, .it becomes that which it was before,
namely, either the spirit of philosophical wine, or a vegetable
dissolvent. · · ,
The method which we used in the vegetable dissolvents, we will
as near as we can also in these mineral dissolvents. In the
vegetable we extracted from the philosophical wine' an aqua ar-
dens, from which we did by circulation separate an oil or essence
of wine, .which is.our spirit ofwine, which then by acuating divert
ways we reduced into the precedentkinds ofvegetable dissolvents;
but in the mineral we will begin with philosophical grapes, the
anatteritself of philosophical wine, which is elsewhere culled green
lion, adrop, &c. Though the discourse ofthis matter appertains
not to this place, yet ifany thing presents itself to us either in the
re.ceipb;.themselvea, or elsewhere, which may tend to a more clear
manifestation of it, we will not conceal it ; but on the contrary
bave determined to illustrate and explain things so, as not only
ao make you more usured of the use and necessity of this
tpirit pl'Qmised to you, but moreover also, that you may have
o1git1zed by Coogle
some certain notions before-hand of its conception, substance,
nativity, &c. ·
.Spirit of the Adepts Vitriol-.!tltlgia .,,at.p. 359.
Take of the earth D. (azoquean vitriol) five ounces and a ltalf,
and of thewatcr C. (of salt peter animated) two ounces and a half,
and being .all mixed, grind the matter fine upon a marble,
then put it in a glass vessel with an alembic qpon it, and distil
the whole substance, first making a gentle fire, and encrease it
till the alembic loseth its colour, or no more distils: then cease
and let it cool, gather the water, keep it in a hot and moist
.place, and have a care . that it respires not. This water,
though made of a contemptible thing, hath the powet• of
.converting bodies into their first matter, which being joined
.to the vegetable virtue, is of much perfection, and must be
into practice presently after it is distilled, that' the spirit
which is subtil and of a strange nature, may not be lost by
.the air.
Alchemic Spirit of Nitric .A.cid-Eluc. Test. p. 14't.
· Vitriol one part, nin·e one part, allum a fodrth part, mix·
them all well together, and distil 'with a gentle fire, till the
liquor is gone over, then give a stronger, and lastly most
strong, till the alembic grows white, for then is the aqua
fortis prepared. Then put it in a large ·cucurbit, and pour
upon it four ounces of aqua vitre (philos. aqua. ardens) four times·
distilled, and put nu alembic on with its receiver, then will it
make great noises, boiling exceeding violently without fire, and
therefore the waters ought to be mixed by little and little. Put
on an alembic with its receiver, and distil the water in balnco•
. that a matter may ,·emain alone at the bottGm of the vessel in tlle
torm of icc ; pour back the water, and distil again, and. this re-
)>Cnt nine tirufJs, then will an oil or matter like icc re•nain in
IJottotu.
o1git1zed by Coogle
llaytnond Lully.
WEIDENFELD-From the receipt we observe these remarkable
things : 1. That the spirit of philosophical wine dissolved in an
acid spirit, is a mineral dissolvent. Our aqua our vinegar,
distilled vinegar, vinegar mixed with the spiritof wine, our spirit-"·
of salt, sulphur, &c. 2. That the spirit of the same wine, is with
Tery great ebullition dissolved in an acid, and therefore you
ought to be exceeding carefullest you pour too much of the spirit
ofphilosophical wine upon the aqua fonis, and vice versa: .For
it would be more safe to distil tlie aqua fortis upon the spirit o(
as adviseth. s.. That .aqua. forli!!l
mtxed wtth the spmt of wme, may be taken mstead of vmegar
with the spirit of wine, or spirit ofsalt mixed with the
apirit of &c. in chemical works especially. 4. That the.
more these di$solvents are abstracted from the acid debilitnted·
in dissolution, the stronger they are made. 5. That the adepts
used also corrosive disso1vents or aqua fortis. There are· some,
not only commOn ignorant operators, but adepts also, who not
know the preparation and use of these dissolvents, have writ-
ten agamst these corrosive dissolvents.
ParisiDWJ, a faithful disciple of Lolly, explains his meaning
thus : those things that are objected by us against aqua fortisses,
namely, that they are of no efficacy in the art, and nevertheless
are taught by Lolly, are to be otherwise understood. For he
this way puts a difference between the vulgar and philosophical
aqua fortisses, &c. And therefore RaytilQnd rejecting sharp
waters, means the aqua fortisses of separation, but not of
the philosophers, cap. 6. Lib. 1. Elucid. page vol. 6. Th.
Chem.
Oar annotations upon the receipts are : That these dissolvents
are made ofaqua fortis, it being an acid stronger than the
rest. Yet that they may be also made of any other acid les9
strong, as distilled of salt,. sulphur, &c. _These
are the best of all the stmple rmneral dtssolvents, both m the
faeility of making, and excellency of virtue. It is equal, whe..
tlter the metal be first dissolved in common aqha fortis, and then
ihe veget.ahle sal armoni"c added, or the said first, and then
the ·metal.
That these aqua regisses differ from the common, in thtrt
they dissolve all metals promiscuously, silver as well as gold, and
reduce the same not··into a calx, but oil, which cannot be said
of common aqua regis. . Metals dissolved in these dis-
plveDt& and . b«:ome the poisoDf belongini
to thia at:t.
o1git1zed by Coogle
.41cllemical Treatilts•
.Alc'llemic Spirlt of Vitriolic .Acid-Epi$. .A.ccurt. p. S27.
'the spirit of vitriol is more dry and thlck, chan the ·
spirit of the quinteuence oi ardens, and great affinity
there is between the spirit of vitriof, and the nature of
because they are both from the princtples
with minerals. . The spirit therefore or vitriol being joined
with the spirit. of aqua ardens, fuspissates it, amf makes
it suddenly adhere to gold, so as to be tixed with it ;-
and believe me,. this w a very excellent way of abbre-·
.viation.
Dissolventl compountled o.f the Spirit of Philosophital
Wi11e arul .Minerals.
WEIDENJELb.-The antecedent kind contained mineral dis-
aolvents, compounded ofacid spirits containing a metallic tinc-
ture in them; in this pt'esent we use the bodies'of thes'e spirits, tO'
make thedissolvents a degree better. For a tincture, for example.
extracted out of the dry pArt or body oftitriol distiUed, with the
spirit of philosophical wine is an essenct-, which being in the same
distillation dissolved in its own acid part, produced a dissolvent
of this kind : whereas in the precedent kind, that small qaan•
tity ofcopper, dissolved or contained i'n' common spiritofvitriol,
and elevated with a violent fire, is by the spirit of philoso-
phical wine, reduced not into .the essence, but magistery,
little effectual as well through 'he smallneu of its quantity u·
tiitcture. ·
A.lclmnic Spir1'1 of Vitriol arul CinnabiW-f'. 371,
Magia. Nat.
Arter the fourth distillation of the water aforetaid.
(aqua a.rdem made llbilosophical didil,
01git1zed by Coogle
Ra!)montl Lull!J. : !7!J
times .with an equal .of pd cinnabar and
'Yitriol, putting in n.e" things every time constantly, and .
drying the .matter of .the stone (,itriol and cinnabm·) well
in every .distillation, be.tOre yau po-y.r in aqua {Yitre)
&c: ·, .. ''
. of.tbe (last meutioned) ,cli,solvent, foq.r pounds, end put
in one pound of mercury vive, put the matter in balneo or hor&e
c1smJr siX days, and it .will aU jato water, clistil
by balneo, and you will ha.re a mercurial water, truly
lleral. · ·
WEIDENFELn.-These diB&Olvents do by continued cohoba-
tiona become most shining hy aq, a.t IJlpper .
want no other ana multiplying the philo•
phers stone.
The dissolutions of metals performed by these mercurial .
diuolveots, have been by adepts $lmetimes ca]J.et;l
matioos. You must know, saith .that this is the 6eat
.olution. that ser .wns found in the wor41, for herejn is no
error of propor.tion IUld weia:ht,. for pature ern .not.-
For when mercury is dissolve<i, it dit.solvea elso,
_. is rightly taught .ip. pJaces. Nor will it disaolve
mOJ"e tlian· it is' able, nor it receive more of a body
hlto it, than its nature can bear. FOI' whatsoev.u b,aa no need
of it, it cannot. dissolve. And. it ia the bel¢ amalgamation
lbat can be found. 2. Min. Cap. lOS, p... .. voL s. Th.
.
.. . . .
1'he Compoun.
tl fragrap.t arJd frel'j,d Mcrcuritl.
Take of the yegetable water (Numb. s,) one ounce,
J)Ut it in .
11 phial with a long neck, into which you pour three
C)JIIlce& of !Jle water (Numb. +,) and cover the
pJUal with its cover, luted clo.se with wax, (11en place it
Well in a balneo, the space of two natural days, and in that
time, the whole l'Q.l ba into a clear
water.
are the mixtures of diverfl
Giaolvents. Tbey may·be nW!e 'of ail vegetable and mineral
ctiasolvents, being mixed together at the artists pleasure. yet
tJaey are made the better, the more tinging the 4fis&glvents were,
do by sweet ana pure!
o;9,1lzed by Google
.Alchemical Treatiaes.
Despise these Receipt& &f dinolve'Ats to rou,
but rather iead and peruse them, and every where end.QvOlit· to
find out the chemiea1 truth; thOBe which you·do DGt uiMltrS&ncl,
or esteem, cast away: for ifone only kind, or auy one reeeipt.
please you, it is sufficient. For we will easily prove that by
that one, an·the secrets of the more seeret ebemy may be
· ·:
·'1 o make these things more easy to you, I will here coatrac:t
intd'a breviary, and reduce them inllG twelve oonclusi011s :-
I.' TAat tlte tlescriptiom wtltese ll¥6 uahr6totslltiiU16ord..
· · · · · · ing to the sottnd '!f 1/u ·
->tpbe 'fOregoing receipts contain nothihg oooo14'.w the- spiftl
of'phi}osophical wine, the use only 9f wlaich. we ]X'Omiseci
It may be properly ealled aa unctuous spiritt proftted..
irig &om the' whlte and red wine ofLully, the eoMtitutivee of U.e
fMid diSsblvent.
II. 11tat no· one '!{ ffte ·qforesaid di4solomt& upHFaretl 'UJiiJzolll
tlte Spirit l!f Philfos9plzical Wme.· . ·
' There are indeed dissolvents, in the receipts of which, we
meet not with the name of this spirit, yet there it is lurking
under the name of this or that dissolvent. Other receipts of
dissolvents there are, ·which do not take the spirit of philoso-
phical hut as if were fettered, that is, any common
oil ; but when in the makiug of these diswlvelits the spirit is
unfettered, as also acuatcd, such dissolvents cannot in the least
he said to be made without it. There are lastly also dissolvents,
in the receipts of which, neither the spirit of philosophical wine,
nor.any. oily matter is expressly mentioned,.. (but these.are mo!e
rat·e, OJ,l purpose alleged to s1'1ew us either the envy or morosity
ofthe adepts) whereas notwithstanding it is by use o£ the.
manifest, that this spidt is add'ed' thro(Jgh
cessity 3-fur which is promised' could not ot;berwise be.
. . ,
Finally, tltere are some, which you willaffirm may be mil-de wkli:·
CQIIUllQn spirit, conunon and aqUA fortis, or common
·sal .armoniac without the spirit of philosophical wine. S!!p-
p!Jse it so; but when you proceed to fractice, ·and try an
riment with such a dissolvent, you wit soon tincl.it not dnly
weak, but also altogether ineffectual, in the more secret ..
For it is impossible to do that with a common dissol'vent, which
oagotized by Coogle
Ra!}fnontl LU.ll}J• . !71:
the lldepts have prescribed by a philosophical dissolvent. The
of the more secret chcmy have this privilege, that they
by utY m.n but hiJ.p tQat i& p01:ise&&CKl ofphiloso-
phical wine. , .
Ill. are · jrom .Gnjl :St!rt l!{
..· . Matter.
We have that dw afOresaid are made·
Qfdive.rs and.acidities ofthe three kiugdoma.
You bavQ .oht;erved tl1e.. simple to be mado
of thinH' finging nor acid ; comPQUnded vegetal* dis-
aolvents of.thing& ;JWt. acid; mineral dissolvents
q£ D4>t. compounded, of
t.1:WJss Wherefore better assured
ofyour li4,he:to so anxiously. sought for, you
ttlb or nitr-e, common salt, .salt of
or \lriAe, JllU)Miew, or any other matte1· also
whicll you l;llAde of:before the rest, for the true and
universal matter ofa dissolvent, in which choice you will not err;
for it is much at one, whether you make it of gold or mercury ;
whether of pearls or arsenic ; vegetable.or·mineral salt, provided
you proceed f.bis, or that kind of diss<>lvents, with
consideration also of what use you would have the dissolvent, lest
you an essence instead ofa magistery, or a poison for an
llJti : on the take.purehoney so by Pa-
risinus, or.the salt of .c.ommended by Ripley ; or <;ommon
ealt, esteemed by as the matrix of metals ; or vitriol
abowlding with tJte tincture of extolled by Basilius,. qr ar-
e:nt v.ive Jll9itied by JllOit of adt>pts, as the
. open metal-
Take, I say,. which. .of ;you please, bJ.It you must know it
wwot 41 the.least yaAJr ejpe¢tation, eli
.·cept it be joined,
&hat is, cprrected, gl\duated with the spirit ofphilo-
. .. . . · . . ,
. .IV. T.lzat are also by lUI!J method.
: You have .bere several._Jllethod& of preparation, which if
not you may please to invent new ones. Herein is
contained nothing secret, ifyour matter, and the spirit of phi-
losophical wine be, without say }l<>Wbility of being separated,
mixed together, and distilled either in part or whole, through an
alembic. For every matter, by what method soever volatilized
widJ. .the apirit. of wine. is a dis-
dvexu:..
D•git•zed by Coogle
!78'
Yon have now observed tjle yse of of
wine in these ways of makUig diSROlvents: hereafter, 1ft the follow-
ing books, you will perceive them to be sufficient for everyrm-
pose. By these meana you ·will make all the medicines o the
adepts, reduce aU inw rupning Jl)ercury, or if yQu h.ad
rather, into the mercury, or fil'llt matter of
By these will you make'as well as pa,rticolar traftS!JlUt&!•
tives of metals, th,e best ofall in respeet or tincture,
ness of time, and ofwort. · 10ll
prepare whatsoever curiosity has been left. us b1 the adepts, and·
in their books, so that if they have any Pl!JMratiOIUt
without the $pirit ofphilosophical wine, 10U may decline them
without p.ny damage. For these dissolvents do volatilize aJt
fixed bodies, and fix the volatile and volatilized, dissolve the
coagulated, .and the dissolved. Under which f'e,r
notions nre comprehende<l all the 91' mont
secret chem!.
.
You have observed diYel'll kinds of dill801vents, designed fbr
several distinct uses. Simple vegetable do· extract,
rather than dissolve bodies; tlie compounded only,
but not eXtract. which vegetable dissolvents do, the mi·
nf!ral cannot, and 10 on the contrary : of vegetable dis.solven-.
are made medicines only, not poisons;
poisons only, and not antidotes without the singular dexterity of
an artist. An diJFerent and contrary to itself admits ncp
universal dissolvent. The spirit of philosophical wine fa in-
deed the universal matter of them all, but there i1 Dot one o(
.all the dissolvents sufficient for every ; wherefOre,
you will for the same reason c&ll nery_ one uniftrial,
because they all proceed from C?f l.igtlt, the upi.
Tersal basis of all things, we but an univenal
dissolvebt. '
That mineral dissolvents are eorroeive, and ·therefore
tolve bodies with ebullition, ia clearly manifett by dte reo
o1git1zed by Coogle
Raymond Lullg. 279 .
eeipta mresaid. I would not have you, being perhaps not suS. .
ciently in the sayings ofthe adepts, w'here declar- ·
iog aqua fortisses, ana all either despise, or
think ill of them. These are thotre, di&&Olvents by which the an- ·
adepta abbreviated their time and labour in preparing
their tinctW'e8. And Paracelsua entitled hiiD&elf to the
mouarcby of he having been tire principal instrument
in <:Ompletingnotonly the abbreviationaofalchemy, but moreover
introducing the.e mineral di110lven&s to medicinal use, and that.
so much dexterity, that there seems to be now no hope left
to his disciples ofmending any imperfection oftlus art. Besides,
these dissolventa dift'er from the vegetable dissolventa noothqwise,
that an aciddm is superadded to them, or to dle spirit ofphi- ·
losophical wine, the aridum, and dividing it into atoms,
making,way for the oleoium, to be soonerand beuer incorporated
ao4 mixed which notwithstandinB do by taking away
&he acidum, return int.o the same vtl{Ptable didlolvents theJ
were bein.
It is by the former descriptions ofdisso1vents manifest, that
as well the spirit of philosophtcal wine, as dissolvents made of
it, do stick to the tliings dilaolved in them. There is indeed no
better argument to conlinn theexcelle!K1 ofdileolvents, than that
they are homogeneous and permanent w1th things dissolved, and -
'10nsequently dissolventa tranamutable with the dissolved iuto a
third substance d.UFerent &om both. These dissolvents therefOre
are 10 far &om being immutable, that, accordintf to the Edict of
the whole crowd ofphil010phen, to wit, the diUolution of the
l x K )
. coagulatioo of the spirit, and so on the contrary,
sa • in the more .ecret dlemy, eao be more infallible. .
IX. TMt tliuo.lwnt1 are not debiliUIUd wit! «iuoloing, 'hut be-
ratlur tnllte and so Qre T'!J .diuoltU;,m, tJU(•
111enlttl Ql wll mguantity ill gutUity. .
the apirit or our wine -is.the baait, root, and
all dissolvent1, medicines, alchemical tincturee, and
atones, vet nevertheless doth it dissolve slowly, yea only such
bodies u are homogeneous to it, that is, purely oily, as itself
ia a pure oleoeuJP, and usociate tlae l&llle to it, transmuting into
j"•q 111\Q i•lfb7 dUI Now &e
o1git1zed by Coogle
.Alchemical Trtati.e1.
100n 85 this spirit is transmuted into an aridO:.Oleosnm, it.dOH
uftder the name of a simple Tegetablediteolvent, di!!ol'fe arido-
. oleosums, that is, the sulphurs or tinctures af the mineral king-
dom, the pure aridurn being untouched, and left in the form of
a white powder, with which essences the said diS!!Ol'Y'entS or es-
sences may indeed melt together, but not in the least be satiated,
becaUBe there is an addition and of like palU. But
the sameTegetabledissolveftts being now compounded ofthesim·
pie, do no the tinctures and essencesofminerals, but
dissolve and transmute the whole mass or substanee ofthese bo-
dies into an oil swimming above, which is called a magistery.-
Now this being digested together with its dissolvent, at
falls in, is united, and so multiplies the compounded vegetable
an to young beginners.;. the spirit of
plulosophical wme bemg a dJSSOJvent of the first ktnd, and aeu•
ated with the oil of is hereby made a dissolvent of the
second kind; or acunted with honey, if yott would hne a diB-
IOlvent of the third kind : distil either of those dissolveftu wkh'
common sal armoniac, and you will have a dissolvent of the
fourth ; but if .you desire one of the fifth kind, cohobate either
·d them with the salt of tartar, and you will have the acetom
acerrimum of Ripley ; or with common salt, and you will make
the sal circulatum of Paracclsus; cohobate mercury, or an1
other mercury, or any other metal through an alembic with this
Tinegar or salt, and you will transmute the simple
c;lissolvents into the compeunded vegetable dissolvenh of the
.eventh kind ; from which you· will further prepare
of the eighth kind, by dissolving and volatilizing any other mew
tal in them. The same rule you have as to our mineral
Tents. But the common dissolvents cannot receive beyond their
capacity. ' ·
X. Tlzat tltest dissolvents are also Secrets qf Metlidnn.
You have observed that among the vegetable dissolvents, there.-
ia none but what is either an essence, or a magistery. You have-
also taken notiee by the receipts of them, that mineral.
d.isselvents are the same medicines, bttt mixed and· dissoiTed
with acids.
XI. Tnat tlzese tlz'IIOlVI!Itts are like'tl!tse tAt &crds '!f1f&!ns-
•utatiom. · · ·
o1git1zed by Coogle
Ra.fJfllOnd Lully.
are dissolvents with the JllMCUline aeed, and therefore vo-
latile and fermented stones.
...
•
XIL That these dissol'Oents are itt like fiUIMer tl&e Secrets '!{
pnopR_UllhLight1 -t.ukl qelfls.· ·:
\ . . ... • .l
That these disiolvents do. give by nigJtM and conse-
.CJuently, are lights, yield also fQr.pearls, pre-
&tones, ·
Withou.t _do little·(ood'ip qrt; ·but
· will, all dol!ht, colti.-
.an. ' ' · · · ·'· · '
i .. ·' ' ' I •
. \ -! ··
. .,
._
• ' ' ··.·. .., ·: '·:
.. ..,..
• • • J
Mm
Digitized by Coogle
•
··J ." .' • ":' _,: f. ,I
. .
SANGUIS NA'fURJE,
BY' K ADEPT-1650.
- . :, ' ' . . ; .
·I. 'Vnos(,F.vtn nttcimptt'th ·the of our glorious stouP,
he ought in the first place, to implt'lre tl1e assi!tam:e of the aU
powerful Jehova, at the throne of his mercy, who is the true
and sole author of 'all '-mystcrios' ·of iuiturc-;' the monarch of
· )tel\ven and earth, th.e. of kings, omnipotc11t, mo!!t and
1nost who d.ot' only maketh mnnife-'1 in tlte
the truth' of td' wbrthy·philoroplte'ts, ··arid liberally
bcstow.eth both natural and clil'ine on . desen·inl{
and faithful; .but also layeth open his treasures of health and·
riches which are locked tip in the abyss of nature to those who
devoutly worship hiin. And for as much as none arc permitted
to touch the mysteries of nature with foul fingers; it
bcho,·eth all who attempt such mattc'rs, to lay aside their natural
blindness from which, by the light of the holy scripture and a
stcdfast faith, they tnay be freed that being the means by which
the holy spirit doth clearly malce manifest the most profoundly
hidden light of nature; which light alone lays open the way
the wisdom of nature, arid to unlock the most abstruse mysteries
thereof. ' ' · ' · · ·
II. All the masters of alchemy, who have C\'Cr treated of thia
·celebrated stone, and left us any thing in writing, ha\'c declarfd
the matter and subject (which is the chief part of this art) so
obscurely, tlmt Apollo himself would be tir«id in ubriddling the
renigmn's they have·im·entcd concerning it.· · And tliis doubtthl
declaration of tpe matter, is the reason why many who seek this
science without the light of nature; tire precipitated into ''ery
great errors ; because they know not the true of·this art,
but busy themselves about other things altogether unfit tor· the
work. But they" ought to consiqer what t\1e philosopher's stone
is in its OWn nature, and ·qualities it hath, •and SO COm_.
paring the qualities of their matters, \\·ith the qualities·of the
stone, the thing itself will cliscO\·er what is truth iutd what not.
, I. The stone in ·its perfection is perinanent ·in the and
dcspiscth the most extream, violence of the flames.'· .. It-cbn·
taineth in itsclt; in great nbumlance the vital fire, and the virtues
nnd p.owers of the superiors and inferiors concentrated 'in it.
3. It is resolveable in any liquor. 4. It abounds with fixed and
tinging spirits, which bcf(:re its:complete perfection
5. Detore its perfection it hath two distinct parts, one volati), the
I.
o1git1zed by Coogle
S.tngtti& Nature•.· ·\.
· 6; It is··of..Jli(ist easy fusion. "'. It ,coetlhleth.:"-'t
three fl'iDc:iples of uature in the yuri•y, ·JAb, :·
.: .
sulphur, an<t · 8. lt conta1uetb 1n: ..d :
.siJver. 9. It ia made out of. one thiag. , · . . , ..: ·
· Seeing. the stone hath the aboJ&.-mentioned,. ·it is.
plain nnd evident tbut of-it ought to h\lve the Uke. ,
Namelv, ·. · . . . · .. 1 : , . . • ·
. -1. 'i'hat.the subject of the.stone be only.one thinfr . :l; Th"t ·
itlmve in it; in potentia, goWand-sllver. -s; in .
it the··tbree principles of Illlturc. 4. ·That ·it..be .of DWIIl ._,...,
tU.sion. ·' .5•. Tbat it consist of volatile and fixt parts. 6. it .
abound with. tinctures botb red aud white. 7. That.it be re- ·
solveable:in:any·Jiquor. 8. That it be. the place of residence of·
tho vitid fire;.:and virtues of the superiors and inferiors. .·
9. That itendure the utmost force of the flames. . . . ;
Now l«S seaceril COlll)'llre tbe qwditiel; of [
with ihe fore-mentiouCd quulitie$, and then they w.ilJ see.whetber
they are.right .,. . · · . . , . ·
·NGW fOF.the .sake Qf aome good men. who .perhaps .
bear an.
honest mind, I will discourse of the elements, and
their.operations, al&d first and cbietly of the of the ele-
ments; and of its life ; which not being kno-wn, the wlwle ope-
l"ation of elements is unknown.
This,mover""f the elements which, not without rea!IOD,
I .wiU ealt:the liv.ing fire, is tw9-i0ld, the .one volatil, the .other
nxt,·residing in the center of $c earth, of which at prese11t I
will not:speak,. but of the volatil; whi<:h is.a substance invisible,.
spiritw and ·wholly an eternal light nearest to GC)d, the
lite of the.·clements, from which tb.e.11un and.m()()ll, the radiant-
stars, a11d wbatsocvc•· giveth for.th a lustre in the tllokell
its qihnl and .splendor, flying thtougb the universe,. every
where preaent, and mobt of nil in those things which in
need()£ continual nov.ri$luuent, endowed 'with innumerable vir-
tues•..·
.:fbis.,crelestial light is originally m011t p)lre in as
long it ia DOt.dcfiled by w•purc bodies; the k•lowledgc whereof
is the :sea of wisdom, which aU who have: light ft:om
lhe bely spirit,. am,). faith from the father.oflights, ought to.keep
eaf4, if•hey ll happy. in thl$ Dlystel·ioiJS philo$0J>hy.
inf,o, the-elements, whic;h are .bodies
intemaUy,Mpiritual, vel'y-simple, and most powerful; wbich.con-
tnin io· .a cerUJ,in ·semin,U spirit, .wJ.Jich i$,the very
ehmieob1 :aod.:wl•icb spil·it of tvcry (lirel)ent atirred up to mo-
U. bjr...,_
lilliAg iitc; if it were abient, the clements would
.Be: J the tire, i( it wexc of this
epYtndot\; and. n.
ot by is;tlle true prin-
m6tiQnr in;i all· Jlnd to tlus tl•e pa&!iiye clemcnti
are Bbt. y!:t. act. elements,
it• .For this cause
o1git1zed by Coogle
-.Alchemical .TreatUes..
the -tleMltltl wei'e made, by the ntost high. ueater; w)idl ·
getber with their body contain a certain seminal apirit, very
pOWiirfUI, which lieth hid a a toul in them. out fJf which by the .
action of the living fire upon it, tlaily new seeds are produee.t. .
Thia·lMng ii;e, 1\'ith whi.:h bePens and ali things are
by t1w ueaf.ol!, descend.eth tne elehlents into the sub-.
ject,.which l$ called balsom or nature, electrum i..maturum,
magnesia, tilt green dragon, azoth' the fire·of nntare,..
the uni-m"Sal seed, the salt of the 0\it of which .all lxde.
wbieh consist of the elemen&a are produced by nn,ute';· and out
of this matter, by Mlminiatrnti.on t1f an inga&us artist, Dy:
means of a spagine destnM:tiOO, riew forma Of. natural bodia
max be produced: which: ia·one of the greatest amma'of secret
plulosoplay. Fot in tllis IN'bjcct lie aecntly bicldcn all the vir-
tues, .properties, .aad splendOr& of animals, vegetable., ·and mi-!
:nerals, mctalw; and precious stones; wbicb by &he help GfVulcau,
are brought·from darkness to light. . . . '
Now I will describe the action of our JiYing the-e
elemcmts, which tlescendeth out of the'fire into the heaveM as
on the elvment of fire, altd there whatsoever is lticid orgtitteriag;
as the mootr, and stan, doth secretly derive illl origin&l:
from · this living fire; and constiluteth this prmdpll element,
and obcyeth it as a SOil the father, 31\d a patient its .,pnt. And1
tiool·tNs living fire, tbe·heaven'lmtb its chief power of acting;
nnd ia of so great conseqttehce, that if its up011·theheaven
ceilse for one moment oJ timet whoie nature' woo1d w.
ruined. I<'or the sua, moort. and lltars, weuld la.e *iractive-
and influential virtue, tlre elements would not move, and nothing:
for ever wottld have any action; which would be a great.Jnis....
ebief to earth, and extremely burafulto all mixta. For the
}Tower and virtue of this Uving fire is 10 great, tbat if that wel'f:
absent, the _elclilents would be d!ad, t.be
clement wluch most of all stands m need of this liaht. Havmg
passed through tile heaven, it comes illto the air, that great .aad
:MOlt thin element, and ioainuatetb itself most intimakly intoit.
In this element the virtue of·this .fire doth chieiy manae.t iuelf;
because in it is inspissakd, and constihlteth tbe vieal.ait- J wbic:h
air is tlaen ._ the creatures, for sustaining o(life. .For.
this living fire simply ia not convenient for the aealaJel, JaOt
.yet the·!limple air; bat fire congealed with the mOIIt ·pure part ot
the uir, und air impregnated witbthc e<elettialliving ire; and
so they coustitute 'fitnl ain, which e-very reeeiftlh
tor tlfe conaervution of ita life.· This li•iug Are _.
of the elements, chiefly of the air, which it ·makes ·use of fOr -'
vehiele, Uurt it Jn,Q,y more easily :inCct- tile- odMr
t.-lements. ·that as fu· say the· a·subtile and tllift
in which it is yet more in.pissatec4 and taketh, a .._..
body of whkh it ataadetb in aeed .itrorating of aU·hnScrilll
o1git1zed by Coogle
Sanguis Nntm·tr·
things, especwly salts, mincrnls mKlstont'S; nD \vhich.nc.cl·suct.
irroration; thea beingclolltlmd with n thirk gnrn}('Jlf, it pnsse\l»
into the earth, n dftJ'k thick element, nwl ·ur u -.cry )loweatfulr
fixing virtue; and thea·c it put& on n saline body; which predomi,..
uates 0\'f.'r all things, and· .contains the refit ·of the
which it had received in the heaven nnd watcJ;· tlwtt is .to.
uy, sulphur ftlld mercury, by \-UI'tue of wlticldt bcoomcth- cn-r:
pable of production. 'Hais snit is the soul of the rauth,. and.U
other things. Therefore if the earth,were ..lf. this ·wU4
it would.want the power of nnd lluddingj :which confo!
sisteth only ia this salt, -of which also llloscs was ignorant.
uying (in the sccond chnp. of Gen•.) · And there'\Tt?flt up n·misl ,
1\vm tbc middle of the and tJ1e superficie-s of thQ
ground1 which vnpour cnn be else; but·the subtile p.art.
of .this salt, .whit.ob hath .ettle<l·itself in the center; of the eea·tlta
,ami by the warmth of the ;corporeal.water;a.te to AliCC11d,
and wat!er the whole su"e'rficies. · , · .
· Thus we clearly nnd eviucnt)y see, thatthis -living fire puttetb
• no other.body thnn that of.salt; because tbat; alone ;is fit foe
F'!cratioft. ·. And the balsam of :llatul'C is generated by thts
nct1on of the fire upon the elements. · . · .·
Now I :will spenki but :a very little of the fixed Jiving flre,
which is hidden in the earth .or center of tire wodd, and thet•
ltath taken ur· its most fixed hubitnti•m ;' ftlid by mnny philoSo.
phen is called the corporal .water ; but it mny better be ooUed
dse fire of bodies. To know tlus is the mOl!t secret mJ;sten•.ia
aU <JU.r . pbUptophy. This fixt fil'c hath n ·great sym}mtl1y \vith
the volatil fire; for it wnntctlt it as an nlimcm, aud to its nourish-
ment, ·which it continually nttmctetl1 out-of the water and airt
and converteth into its ou·n sub»tMce.; amd in this as·in a
all thu'lirtue lvetb conccntFuted, which heing llCtlttered, fiycl'-
fn the M mny be observed in mnn, ·in whom
fire fixed in the of the heart; hath its seat ns tile yolk in
the E'@g• But its.operation is invisible amd very sec1-et,-
very powerful, which also iew know; for it operates by ita heat
in all things, which lie in th<: earth, .and C:Xciteth·the flux ·
reftux of the sen, u the pulse 111 man lS eXCited by the fire whic9
lieth hid in the tenter of his heart. Hence also aU the wat¢l7
und air.y l'DpOUr.s, by the .help of this fire are elevate«
earah and ser. into tbc uir, which eompoee the cloud$, :qn<f Q,Y
J'anfaction·of the wind11 {beiug impregnated by the vi.W spirilo}
fell doWD ogain to the c!U'th in form Of' :water. . ... , • . ·;
And thus.every .selircber of .nature must acknowledge it
liNe, .that·thae is -one· I!Ubject. tile o(
JIIOOD, ia 'the: tirtue8 as weJl·.of the suvoriofS lie
concvntnted·; out of whieh by .tbe chemical art,
things may be brouJ{ht to pl1ill'. .body.is.salt, but
IDOil.ah, or.as1y oaiber·JA!t of this k.iJJd, ·but a
o1git1zed by Coogle
t86' .A./chmzlr.i.l Tt·ratises.
ltlineral salt, wlllch hath c'hosan to· itaeJf. a residence in tiJe
sphere of saturn ; and is also called the heart ·of JSaturn; otrt of
.,hich being made cloori and bright, and .pm1gcd frcjzn nil c:tere-
by ea.'!y art, a certain gummy liquor is drawn;· caHed. by
the·name of a glorious mercury. But you must be wary oin the
choice of. this salt. There is only one salt which is useful to ns,.
a pontick fiery, bitter and mineral salt of a sattumne nature,
out of which this fatnous liquor is extracted ; wltich is of s&
great moment, t?at ·!t, ·no transmutation of· can
bernade. In tbts mercunal hquor ·may what IS sulphur.
and mercury; for the sUlphur 11heweth itself i'! a ·purple
Mid yellow colour ; but the mercury .is invested "*h a watmy
and airy humidity; and though the· salt appeareth · not, yet its
-.irtue is eminent in this liquor. For it is wholly saline, by
an easy fire, is coagulated into a pcrmaaent earth, which l"c-
presentctb salt. And so ·you have•tbree principles .of nature,:.
salt, sulphur and mercury. These are but a few tbi!lgS·which 1
:have said of the mn.ttcr ;. which though it be very secret,. yet the
operation of it is more·secret which ne.verthcless.in my i>Uowiag
discourse I ·will reveal, so that its occu1t may be made .mnnifes&
only to men elected by God. · • · ···.:• ! . •
111. Of what kind this matter is, which is .enclowed with 6Uch
•lrtac, and out ofwhkh is plentifUlly drawn the.famott& philo-
sophical mercury, I have sufficiently demonstmtedrin the pre..
Cccling chapter, ·and herein ·will :further demonstrate; wlaich is
not·pt•operly mineral nor vegetable-or animal; yet ·a •metaUine
sulphur, salt and mercury, are together pt)rely.and pleqtiiially ill
it, which is obvioo11 to every one, turd lietb:hidden ia every'tbing;
but espcciaUy in the earth; the receptacle of nH >
influences;
in which also the virtues of.the sun, moon, and·&tars .are toood
corporallv. This the' artist ought t<Hake where ids mostneU-
end ·most pure, in form of a· trinci-salt, wl1rch elsewlwre.I cmlled
the salt of saturn. Out of this salt groweth gold, and all other
things in the wbole mint.lTal kingdom; and into it they,umy he
resolved again. And as in gold .iieth hidden a bxight and dia·
phanous sulphur; so also in our saturnine minera, there is a
solar fiel'y, diaphanous red and .sweet mdpbur... For
wliere there is glittering. brightness, there is light; where is
light, there is hcut ; where is beat there io life IUld.very pcN.lcdhl
action; .and which is a great matter, init .rcigl\ the clements
<animate<h•dth a Jiving tire, which is a crelestial fenile
and greening spirit'; the.light, and life :of all .....
And nlthonah the t:wlestml sun ·doth much.help tlte ptodudlon
ofsublunary0
crcntures, y.et.without this internal sun nothing caa
be generated; · whieh al.110 IDe krlow.
·another concretes are reJected, al10 :salts, except <JIIeF'WJrich
is ehe salt of wi!ldom,. power: and iJDd tbc.. tlie
*h">r·walts, namcl)l our central saturniae aait,. a 'lilllpltQlOUS·awi
o1git1zed by Coogle
lllorttiri:U ala·; w!Ja;e: every
and·coagblate.mcrcury. :, ·: ,· . • · • · · .
· Tlar nre ns!sol: tllovglr they·appear not.to fightt ,yEt
me i1:1liJWEi11fuHy.in the inward parts; ofcnir ·matter, al)d it
'po9!iEl9iclth :the: ·nU things;_so. alsr, Ulat unless
.,-hat· :isdtiaklen ,iiilib·:be · :manifust; they will not uppenr-;
1\·hich (u)ly;hy' diedwrtion and purification ·of the matten.
U.at··tho fecuisz::whni'he clouded overJ.Sol and luna mav be
\hrbughly nw'ay,. may fintgrow·white· 81
a ..diamond;J,,.nd ·be··•, ftilgeut. as a thm .they. t1:p
a .ocrtain ctJPtrttr.y
:tiquor';· fbT nndAuna; ·"'·hioh-ar.e secretly in our matter, and
t!ilo.powarfully:_in· are\ not as to:nppear to;sight,
unless this reduction is made hy a contrary, Which
·t:Jr ·most subtile resoLving, •containini
in ··.ir'c,.,-und ·and.se{Jllratirig tlle piire trotn··the im.
pure,: yedirl!b ·ouLof our. J whiCh liquor
possasseth;. '!Of.NtM!dog, ·huiniWngt •
ing_ ;·B!ul.·thet'.efor.e,it. tiJut!secretirc.of_
natv.rf.\
poofet1cth ltmcturea. Dut:.yet; we.;mu"
. .]ll)t:there1k>re the 8\lbJct:t'is:red or .llDf othe{ colo.ur;
J.iut1 it 'is white ..... in poteatia; thie :of
redness lieth secretly hidden in the belly of the air of ou,: hlijtt.ef,
:nut.showing.it&J:i....rlevisibly, ittbcfp¥t inw thft tire,
it cannot.manifests futod tUieturc, be
artist, .Sl);tbatlthchwatccy .and:OOJ;thy
·sabstnlltllr!t mayhe , tJPCltvte
"the shewintiesel£ in ·w.hito and ired•.:.- ;;l . .- <·..·.•:
•. of·:ihis,:solat!;1inbjett ··.may'he .evidootlyj j,;pown,
.if bf. it· the,·tlwee: pri.ncipln;)of. nature·•
What tliey:areII will .eXJ>)Bin• ·..Sulphnar residiog-in:0UI' m.qttC,f,
·is dts' fieryjJ :most- thin part,· P••·takiJJg .of a
inde<Xl is- tiDe· pe1•kct.8.nd
having. ·pow.er of· rubifying aild illuminating e.ve.·y body,: 'Qy
l"eason of.it:B,iJlnate oil);, fnt, !.inctuous .and vi$cpus, fiery
:nnd ethereal quality; uponwhic±h aeie6uut it is able by1
its subtile
nnd intemnla£tion,to·produce aU ...\Ybich sul-
phur is· called :the philosophers .atcret fire, J,i.:ving hfe,.
the h11ninious pl\rt, &c. · 'l'herefore:if rlny ooe ;in. the antJtomy
of our·matteJisee. ·a certain. shining, subtile clear. sul1stance, :full
-of ·• .fiery shining redness ldke n·ruby,. full of
l1e.may; be certain that·he.bath seen and the
fire of the philosophers. Mercury is tbe .aml
humidity.-of our matter; and theinseparnhle compjlnion of suL-
phur; and is as a menstrum to it, chet·ishing and nourishing
and a medium of conjoining the sulphur with the salt; but
reason wby it is viscous as 1mlphur, is, because it hath subtile
parts resolved in it, w:hich it with in the .anatcnlf
o;9,1ized by Google
extenjaHire. , ':fhe,iJilt is the
and the and sulphur, _mid in whiCh a new
fi>f.lll•is.llltW:.(.)cluced by·the action of the sulphur wbich operateth
sulphoris very -bitter .nnd acid,' .jn which
-thetoe CcFtain fiery csnbstance oo,rruptiug •tht: -inward .w
.
.the 41lk. and.wl1ich being ·immediately .it receiveth a
laew'.fo,rm, ;Dn;cl which is -a .
Th'* principles are also vety muc:ih detiliea wiih
fe_ceo; wh.kh nn .to. know•. _.Sulphur·i1l the lil.t
plate, aboundeth with and consuming feces: but
1Jlercury with wa;teryand· ,oold substances; Ct)Jtttary tO life'; aril}
in sah £here ,_re caust-ic, salta; ail which mJJst
.and if they upluck7
to the lii'OI.lK. . · · . . · J. : , : _.. • • ·
.. qtinft'a is mercurr
.fire befure fus ihgbt; whrch 1f:!t·bt:· by the
F,hllo$0phcr6' wheel, so that those parts wbwh- speedy
separated, and the·l,llementa mmly coagulated, it
of more.easy fuilba than it waa befOre; wliich·fu1ion cJe;
upon :tbc salimhrid ·lulphuro'!li- spirituality, which iS Q.
twl'fcct nnd concentrated-light,· pemitratbtg' evpzy body ancJ on
·llll illuminnting1
it . the
mlphuts out of bne of a ututUrnle .natnre; one 1s
\lot'at1lo.and green,. .whidFtwn by cir...
etdating elementsiPN Olle;· are of the
nntureof salt producea by natul'e out·of,the·moat pore. .8Qlll a£
tlle Because by the :of the and
·:5hul;;tbese. produced· the wor.ld, DUt of
·Y.·Uitlt hy·the the t'!o .of tbe .philosophers
"'u'@ wlMch co11slllt·of. tile most subtile mel p_
ure part of
·die: sulphunr prOduced by natare.- OUt of this pgre subStance
nrc al.O gene.d, W.pich differ to
·;rurity :of the _wptl 'tf fit diapo_sition. Out
'-hf ia extrac:t«;d the. of the
whu:h IS their radtcal huundaty mtxed WJth a sub-
tile earth• .· For as by this earthy sulphur is meant.. heat a4<f
1he ot'nntur.c, as_also the furm of matter, wh1ch we als<f
bll so· also tqe bumidity of this sllbstancc is our ml:;-
.pliur, in which, (if they· beLjoined by art in a certaia' propor-:
'tion, ·nnd are decocted in aglau circulatipg their elements.;
·i'irst airf fire, are purified bf
mto a certam chaotlc,·th1ck !ind. masa; then bY
distillation into liquor, on'e white,. another and
·.fire; lastly they are fixed into a glorious and permanent earth)
nll our is the of ou-.;:
nnd rule m
o;9,tized byGoogle
Sangitis Naturtl!.
is hvo llS weliave cledared, white and red, fixed and v.olatil.
·rhe fixed is the greeli lio'n; which lieth hid i'n the center of our
aboundiug with ·alld .tinging tinctures; but the
\rplatil is the fire of nuture and our sulphur, full of power and
.eificacy of illuminating, as his vestment doth.
fcstly declare. l•ont Is the blood of our green dragon, <hstillcd
.fr<lm the very bowels of abounding with 1·edncl;s ; therefore
it is, not withou't cause, called the blooc.l of nature, which stirreth
up lJis own sulphur, lying hid in nn substance, and brings
it from power into act; and then out of it ·do our two
glorious mercuries, our two perfect sulphu'rs, ..one red, the hus-
band ; the otl1er white, the wife; springing out of one minera.
And that ..sulphur }vhich we call the green lion, is the fire of
nattU"eo, which licth ltid in the centre of our subject, understat1cl
&alt., and there is detained shut up in a strong earthy prison,
clisabled to exert its force, unless by its associate it be set at li.
berty from itS.fetters, so that it may come out together with his
companjon. This deliverance consisteth in solution, which is
very difficult; for this sulphur which we also call the stone, is
both most hard and most soft in it's nature, ahd therefore it is
not easily dissolved, except in its own liquor, that is his
nion, in which it is most soft; so that it can be set at liberty only
by this airy companion, which otherwise could not be delivered,
neither..by.lire nor water; is. a. secret known to few, of
which I will speak more particularly hereafter. This fixed sul-
phur is very powerful, and sustaineth every thing that operateth
iii nature, but as soon as it is set free, it ceaseth from its labour,
together with its companion it be carried .aloft, and in the top
of the vessel, wltere if they are detained, they constitute a cer·
tain substai1ce bright as . luna, called Diana; at this time I say,
it receiveth the power of triUlimiuting.
Since the stone is of the substance 'of salt, it resol\'eth itself in
any.liqtioi:; but the salt! out of which it is prep'ared, is of inost
profound research, and differeth inuch from other salts; for it
is fluid in the fire; and values not its martyrdom at all ; and loseth
nothing or its virtue thereiii, though it be kept in itdivers years,
which 6dier suits, as vitriol, sal gemme, .and other tbe like salts,
eannot do; for by olicn repeating ignitions, they all turn to an
unprofitable and imfluxiblc calx, which is not resc:ilvable in any
liquor, bei1ig of the nature of damned earth.
· Though the mattel; to sight is most vile arid most cold, yet its
more iu.ward parts are mere tire, and abound with the living
fire, and the virtues both of the superiors and inferiors ; and
tlterefore its soul in all places to bring down the
fire. For the father of it is the sun, and the mother the moon,
which it secretly the virtues ot: all thing$._ Tltis
lmng fil-e rnleth powerfully m our two radtcal sulphurs,..fixed
arid \·olntilc; whiCh two being firmly united; do constitUte our
o1git1zed by Coogle
4lcTitmical TreaUst8.
in two central
:fires of macrocosm, the crelestial and terrestnal ; and these
two, by help of external fire, are reduced into one substance,
which, the crelestial · aud terrestrial virtues lie concentrated,
l1cat is.the innate heat of every thing, which often sheweth
splendor m the eyes of fishes, hairs of brutes and men, iu
.OQt of dew, as also in rotten wood ;. but I
it i8 sutlicient, that every one daily seeth the luster of
gold and sih·er, pE:arls and precio\ls stones, and also bcholdeth
the sun and moOR.
' it iS to be considered, that the tincture of tfaephitoso-
phers is a substance tinginrr metals in a very strong
lire_, ·into perfect . anJ' from whence it necessarily
followeth, that if!; subject ought also constantly to resist the·
llames, and to rejoic.e in them. it is BOt the whole
of the first matter which endures the fire; because it aboundetb
with maity eleinentary freces, wltich are combustible in the fire i
but only its pure which are also called incombustible oils;
rfjoi,ce in.tbe fire, and are peqnanent in it;. beeauee they are
of a pur.e nature, .and not defiled "·ith any feees, therefore the
ire cannot touch Wherefore it is ncces.sary in the first
plncef \o purify the and take away the &phere of saturn,
which bedoudeth the sun and moon, before they can despise the
jire; and thea d.ecoct these pans till they be reduced into one
thing, ·whose vil'tues neither fire, }}Or water, nor iFan1. nor air,
Can dim.rnisll, but resi:>t all their
Consider therefore, 0 man, the wisdom and power, which the
most wise, eternal, an,d omnipotent God, Jehova, bath granted
Consider things in· humility . of hcar.t, and sing·
Hallchtialis to him without ceasing, for holy, holy, holy, is the
the Lord Zeboath ; the heavens and the earth are full of the
1paj.esty of his glqry, Amen.
· ·IV. Among the secrets of alchemy, tl1e srreatest is to draw
water out of a rock ; verily a hard and very difficult work, unless.
alone had shewed qs the of this
.which tlte artist ougltt to to do by fire, which in tbe
beginning must be gentle, in the mid(Ue strong, and in the end.
most veh.emcnt; so all the.rereal and spirits of this.
rocky mmera, may Issue forth mto a fit phtlosoph1cal vessel, and
there resolve tlaemsclvcs into water; which water with wonderful
the rock, from whence it issued; water
IS called by various names, as rock-water, argent Vlve, a fume,.
the tinging crelestial spirit, incombustible sulphur, wine vinegar;
succus acacire, spirit of wine, temperate water, the luciferous
virgin; nil which names signify this water; which if it be again
conjoined with it, remaineth stone1 and often operateth resting
vpon it, it acquireth a wonderful active power, as all know who
are acquainted with tlli11 water, This is bt
o1git1zed by Coogle
Sanguis Natune.
ihe philosophers, a destruction of the compound-
; which d&.
structiou is not to ucatroy as the .vulgar think, who
destroy mixts by conosives, but the unlocking the bonds of our
compound, by whicb it is whic:;h if they be unlocke<!,
it is divided part:; with couservatioo of parts whic\1
.<:onstitutcd this mixhrre; wb.ich paris .so
are pu1·ilied aud 4elivcn•d ex<..Tements impurities, with
which they abo11ud in their composition. But that this
be more easi!Y done, philosophers divise,d this distil-
lation and dclitruetion, by l1elp of which,- t4e part$ might be
most higbly and exalted tQ _
such a of
.that' therellpon a new COl-.:lPOIJ.Ud might be of greater
. B1,1t to briu_g this to pasS, the a_rtist 9!)ght to fo,llow
nature, as aU bQth ancimt ._d.modern teach. and
ottr out of.t\le bos()m nature, wqere
flath hidden it, and i_t most by Vel'f ftequcnt co,.
hobations and reductions: Fof so .it thoroughly sheds all i,ts
and whatsoeye,r tlh;e it from its
of transm1;1tatioo, wb.iclt is.wol!lderful, and yet it is more
fal, that"
in this .vi!,;! and n:tiuera., lieth the.
.stone Gf tbe ,pbilosop1ters, whose by _
of.its
obs<:urity no hody can see, unless it be delivered therefrom, and
_
to light; for before it is set at liberty by the chemic
.art, 1t is a rude, vile_, abject, and undigested mass, :which. iii
found scattet·ed in the earth.
The and last <lperation, is that of tlte fixation of the
pennaaent water and the glorious earth, of which the philoso-
phers say, that .
it is a eommixtion of qualities, a copulation of
complexioas, a of things separated, a coequation.
of principles, a disposition of what is repugnant; which must
be done by a gentle fire, ·. cherishing the parts mixed
and put ilito a glass vessel, being first made very And
the interaal fire of these parts being excited by !J. gentle external
fire, doth dissolve and dccoc.t them, and by decoction they are
by little and little insp_
issated and made thicker, until at
length they are wholly fixed, lixed in the bottom of
the circulatory. For the containeth in itself a fiery most
thin, dry and iQ$ensible £¥me, which coagulateth the volatile
part, being pf itll own and substance. This fum.e lying
hid in the center of the earth, by its act,ion converteth the other
'Volatile elements into its own (namely q. fixed) oature; and then.
the motioa of tAese elements ceaseth, because they have attaineel ,
their desired end; which if they be again dissolved by the vola-
tiles, theil:' motion beginnet4 agailt, till the fixed have o"ercome
the volatile. Then agai1,1 motjon ceaseth, which if they are dis--
solved again, they work afresh, &c.
Here all must observe, that in this operation a two-
fold pre must be used, the one the other external, which
o1git1zed by Coogle
extemal must not over power the internal ; the is_a d{y
mercuriaf etherial nectar, OUr g}oriOU$ merCU!).'t .which
fieth, conserveth and nourtsbeth the matter; and brmgeth Jt t<>
rerfection ; this fire_is not moved but by an external agent, which
1f it he slow in operatiQn, the internal lieth still, and
nothing; but if the external be too strong, either the vessels
break, or the matter burneth; tn.e fire must be ,.arily
applied, so that· the fumes, whtch he 1b the o.f ou,r
earth, may be moved, and then the spmtual humtdtty will re;-
S<>lve the earthly siccity, and the will be impreanated by
tbe volatile, and will- thick ; the sign_whereof i!'
And if the spirits of thts compound be ttlore inspissated, v.at;icu$
colours will appear, and by a farther ope!atio\1, there will liH:.
pear a colour, a an.d lastly, 1.\ red,
phanous and after matter wiiJ
be of easy fuston, lix:<f,. tmgmg alhmpeifec.t
pure gO;ld. The mgemous <>Jlet:ator
·can eastly effect. tf he d1ssolve the stone. of tlie first
·order,·compleatly in ourglorious and decoctetli,
:fixeth.and m.cereth 1t; and so he may m!tltipiy 1!1and
exalt rt; whiCh .that they may "1 t_o b_y,«lu\'
Lord Jesus Chnst. ·
· ·· · · • · ·. · · · · · · ·
. ' . . ' . .
D•git•zed by Coogle
FIRST
Acco1·ditJg to the Writings of
\
ATTR..,.CTtON is the first of motion in 'he
origin of attraction is bt>yond nature, and is tbererore ·inco!ll-
prebensible to til<! human understanding. REPULIUON is the
second principle ; it is a necessary <:onsequence of the first by
re-action. CmcULA'l'ION is the third principle; it
from tue cqnflict of the attraction and repulsion. ·
All m.otion in nature derived from this threefold principle,
and is diversified according to it-s various qualifications witJi
The.attraction, repulsion, and circulation in suri
And stars, move the planets in their orbits, the SUJ11e /rin.,.
ciplc in each globe p('rforms the rotation on ·the axis, an the
&tcllites of planets have the same law to their primary. Every
quantity of matter solid, fluid:, or gaseous, when separated froni
the rest by its quality or discontinu,ity, is
oy the same principles, however infinite the variety of-substances,
natural or mctitious, great or small ; vegetable, and animal
i.>rms, and ntoti<?Jis, are no less evidences of these principles
than the heavenly and earthly bodies. Hence chemical
affiriity, called electi\'e a.ttraction, is ruled' by the same lJlws,
and it is round, .that when tWQ matters Unlte, one is attracth·e,
and the other repuhoivc. Wheri they will not unite, both
are attractive, or both repulsiYe. To illustrate this by a figure,
two Jines opposite, place arrows beside t}lem to shew their
«:outse-if one is attractive, and the other repulsive, the atTow&
are going the same way, and therefore unite; but if both are
or both repulsive,- the arrows are going in difFerent
ways, and therefore disunite. \Vhen attraction or repulsion
predominates in a matter, the circulation is in elipse or pa-
rabola ; but when they are in 'equilibrium the cirCle is produced.:
draw two circles, and place arro-ws round them· to shew which.
th.ey are turning- if they turn the same way, the
lation on. contact is adverse-if they turn different ways, the
contact agrees: of.one disjoined,
unita chemtcally, by changmg Its ·polaTity • thts ts proved by
of polarity in magnets, the poft>S of the electric
·and the chemical attinities changed by the volta pile.
There are degrees, in which either ofihc three principles predo.-
activity ofmatter m.oreor lesS-and hence
o1git1zed by Coogle
•
.Alchemical Treatises.
tbe degrees of affinity for union. There are also degree! of
&trength from harshness to mildness in the three principles ;
from th.e compaction of a to the adherence of n ·globule of
mercury, or a drop of dew ; from cxplosiQ,. to. expansion ;
and from violent whirling to gentle evolution.
repulsion being by the attraction, must equaJ
it as ,e-action equals action ; h!}t in matter one principle may
be more latent and inert in the exterior than the othm·•...:...
Circulation produced from the action of both, is thf' medium
between the CCJ,tripetal and centrifugal fo1·ce; the e)!:cess of
repulsion inclines to a taogertt, and forms prtrabolm proportioned
to strength ; the equality of repulsion with its origiJl, at-
tractiol), forms a circle, which labours to harn1onize the con:-
S\ct of the two properties, will succeed if the matter
is.qi.Ulli6ed for it. ·
There js nothing in capable of qualifying matter to
b.e but one mineral spirit, the ore of which is in
JjtleS of equal attraction and repulsion, and the pure
metal in a star-like cit·cle of h•J•adiated circulation. Antimony
by iron, ruul pouiJ<Jed fine, might be circulated, that is,
digested in a matras, to a perteet harmony of the principle&r
in the of its pul'ification. it has loit the original pro-
portion of Jo otder to restore it, place fiome
.X thepowder a mnl $0llle nt()l"e a retort, lute
(beQl in sand blood-beat, a gas
the poWder m the retort, and the pc>wder lB the
uut.il it is thoroughly moistened by the
&J,ld day without a moment's lf in the &nit
distillation. it is not moistened, it may be distilled on
fresh this ;-seal the la!i!t wet powdM
long-neck.etl round bottl,e, of great' and equal
PJickne&s, ftaw, apd digest withwt
nod thl:ee months at bloa<J-heat, three montht> at. fever-heat;
three months ,vater-boilin_g heat by a · ;....,.
,w.d if the moistwe was scanty, or evapt>rates in the heat of
11ea1ing, .proce-. fail as a pla.nt without rain ; if the .
is wet too mach, it will be a long time in np,· IRl4
vessel may by the bent rarifying the moisture•
. The which one.fourth of the glass, is the
the empty part is the heaven, in whieh the circulation is per-..
(ormed, harlDOl}izing attraction of the fixed with tlw
subtle repulsion of die volatile parts, aed in coosequence of itif
priginal irratliation in state, it is capable of8' 9l\''"
periar in;adiation -from the same cause,. which is etheent
lire of the 11piritual gas or vapour of ascendiag aDd
descending, going round inside the slass, the :ftxi4Jy
the eurth, obtainiag n:liatioa for itael£ ·
'fhe action in the retort imitates whick distill·thl
o1git1zed by Coogle
First Principles.
:D1ineral spirit in the chasms of the globe by a moderate-heat.
The invisible univetsal metcury passes into suitable earth, and
forms metallic orcs ;-the action in the sealed matras. is like
nature unde1• the mcky roof of the mine1 which J'etains the ·
the sublimation:; and reverberates it until it coagulates intq
.
If between the distillation of the gas from, the retort,
the the matra.s, or receiver, there
any loss of time, or cause from over-beat ot cold, for . the,
ritual fire of the gas or water to retire-or if there is an 1n.,
tcrval of cold, or scotching heat, in diitilling or digesting for
nine months, the work is so fllr spoiled.
The agent of the work is the invisible mercury, which is
gas, si1irit, or air of antimony, excited in a steady sand
warm as blood. Various methods will arrive ;Jt the same.
end, if this agent is not omitted :-some of these iq
the hands of an exP,eriencecl are less liable to accidental
I,nischances than the former : - for instance, an U).liuteJ,'lllittinc
of the gru;, will impregnate and open the powder
solutio.n.' iti the fotm of water, which will partly or wholJ.y
solve fi·esh powder, according to the proportion. By cohohatefi
distillation from the residuum, it acqu,ires permanency, 8o.d
when a bright clear water is separated, the residuum yield$ .•
red oil in a stronger fire, and leaves a black residuum,
-.nay be calcined to a white fixed earth. Fre$h antimony
powder will u,nite easier and safe·r with these togethe.r,
with the first gas or water, and time lost iq distill
in T
. he white water easily absorbs the 'fhite 'ii.xe<!
earth, th.en unites sooner witil the red oil. by di.,,
gestion,. ·· . ..
The o{ f!.Dtimony fix-es in digestion sooner with the,
thick wl1ite water of antimony, than it could with,
the volatile clear bright water. It dige$ts rapidly with the
oil, which contains a large portioh of the invisible
in a permanent and nearly fix-ed state of aciiol). ·The
whitf:l fixed earth, made of the residuum of these white a.xid.
red mercuries, contains 110 mercury, and is therefore pnly &;;
for union with the said mercuries in some of their variolll1
grees of volatiLity.' and it is the best for condensing th:e.
fi_rst gas. The Simple. work first descnbed perforlll$ all these.
virtually in lhe.se$led glass ; the varie.t.ies o( .
nfford to the disi;olvcnt, or vehicle wJP.qh,
contains the pl'ime agent, so 811 to allow ·intervals for its a.p..:
plication to val'ious purposes. No process · finally .rau_·
where the invisible universal mercury,. spiritu,al air of
timony, is present, co1;1densed, in its vehicle.in. any, gf tJ:te.
of its permanency. . .
. .fhe principle of the work is tbe power of harmonizini the_:
D1g1tized by Coogle
·AltlwJifcal 1'reatiscs.
tJri-elemM ittscort1m1t principles of attraction, repulsion, and
eirculntion. Iii three inonths cirdllation by digestion, the pow-
btack; of and re-
pntsron ceases ; the nttracilon of the fixed, produced the
h'pnlsioit <>f tl1e volatil«; ia by the circulation, which alsc>
dies itselt; nnd all three enter into rest. There is no DIOre-
.et>mprcStiioh or expimsion," 'asceJ1t M descent; the action nn<l
n-.·action httve by the irradiated equUiurittJ11 of their
Ahd tM snbtlets of the :<spit:il:, (ormed A Circulation which has
tbnsttftled all opposition, imJ sunk dowg, black :md
itlotimttcss. Thi! same three principles gradually a_new
life, iu.tiuitely ·more p<>werlul ib virtnc, but without uny violent.
rontest, nnd in moitths further, the mild action of th'c
principles in huhnouy, have produced a brilliant \\·hiteness ·ilt
the matter, which in three months more, becomes a·trilliant
yellow, red or purple. -
Every other matter labours after _this perfediori. in vain ;-
)\ 'can only attain to cornbustion, beat, and ten1pomty light J
it's consurtlptidn is a scpllrution .itato gas and ashes, not an union.
as the fiEJl'Y ofantimony furms between HIC extremes.
This of.antimony ii ib-fuU oflife; either in its oil- or wa-_
tery form, .tbat If tlie proces$. fails iii any ari additioJ.l of
the <cvill jt:_. .whit& ot; •:ed is
1!1 and qwmt:dr,·by each of witiJ
ftohh antnnonj m powtler wet with water or o_!l ofantimony
ii; at fi'nt; each digestion ill illakJe in tenfold shorter time than!
the former; from· a few weeks to h few hours.
· The plMe tmneKed -el.ew& the theory .in-the.relation
ofits spit:it -or- alkahest--ro matter of .'fhe
is 11ntimony purified by ironf- and findy }JQunde:cf ;.--:-
tl)e mviiible mercury Is the spiritua air ol anti.mony, \\'Mob_
iotnbinCil wittl the vegetabfe or nhin1al ftuids. :ind tlteii ·iofnls,'-ill.
its tpititunl or \\•atery form- and from thence cori1b1iies
Dk ahtt stones. · From this theory, the nfliuities''tnay be learned .
fbr prattice--the gtts wilt not. onite oasUy metals .or
itt!tals, until it is for tiuitpurpose. T-his'_
may be
eitbei- bj the tltick 1·ed and wU!te·meroories, whicli are the oil:
etd ofantimony·.as by eoildcnsing the gas
in distillittion do ''egetnble or animalliquids-:-or in the acids of
mineta1 Aalts, sulpHurs, or \'ittiols. By circuJating, that is di-
pting, the t'!o.moitths, the gas -as
4)it on weak hquJdS, or Js umtcd t.hc sftong, subdumg the1r
crorrotiion. In these states, it i!i uble f(j make extracts !tom oi'
lftllte ·with the $olid$ the thrl:le kingdoms, according to
quality to 1Vbieh it wn& united.. These Sc>lutions are more
ar.d rapid, than those with the m1ctoous water or olf of
antimony, but require great skill and experience of the so-
pbipSre.
o1git1zed by Coogle
I
. I
I
t.
"" 1:
1•.
04p1Ce!l .1?,
I
$
::r
...
...
" '-'
I IJ
,j
Fl.,b {
I
0
<g 1t r1 o s 3
"-.. - ( r-.... Hair .,
C)
0
- •
rv
'·
o,g,md by Coogle
Fil'll Prine{ple.t. !97
of,qmdQI)sing thegns, the w:tter or oil·of antimony
wns united with animal, or mineral liquids, the time
is gained in digestion was employed in the water
.or oil, the is safer to one wl10 lwno.wil how to presef\'e
,the presence of the prime agent. By distilling the '·.olaulc part
of the water, the phlegm, n !IJ>iritual water .
is obtained,
COOltlllXablc fi>r vegetable nne' •
Without the me•
that JDay be to J&ome animal diseases.-
All natural or artificial produ<;ti<Ul6 muy be n<klcd to those in the
.plate, und 11cw ,either .simple or. compolllld,,.will
pcrf6cuon,, 1J,g_
e1_1t spirit, ..in some of
forms, is not onutte.d. 'lbe.tn.'ltel'm ,mcdtca mny he trented m
_:the same manner, and by elective affinities :-
ther.e can be no pOllsibility cf111istt\king..n poison for mpdicine,.
jf the oir.cuJation is .till the principles lli·e
barmon.ized. .An inp,nitc .VIf.Tlety of .siJuple Ot com-
pound, may .be duvisc4 from ..the thu;; .en!argcd-:nll settir;g
from .ol,ie poin4 by 071-e }JQ'Iper, and .till .y.fthem m:iy
attain t}}e end,.; the t,ilnc l,.qs.t iu tl.l.C CQIDnlCiJ,Cem.ent of
:Some, gained in .thc¥r Wlu!n ·:d.l.c pril)le
.ageilt h&S it.v llloit \'chicle in the w)lite M.d red
powderS; ,the plate mny be turned upside down, .aqd .d,ie-uni·
:Vcrsal rclatiGw· .of o,\'J•ite · ·mp:j be' .kneed
alluat,tu:e .\l'IdqlwcJunor,e rapJdltv .ni prac*e, more
powerful jn .the of ;the :prime age1.1t, when
naked ·Ill! \he lllCX.CJil:y, OJ: s!Wltl_y by its yolitt!le
. fo110s of W:ttter lM'Jd .oil. · · · ·
. i.oto the
bancb; oflts qqnally and .generally in 31l
a>untries, and 'hat ull pto.vide for .the aheratkm,
:the of. th'e adept!! will tlli!tt ·.<;orne 'f;).\lt .'of its c11ptivity.in
.Babylon.
, and .they .w.ill find .their proper level as''true
k ·the soul und body, ..uf.the..u:ec gf )ife for •
ifae healing of t;be nations. . · ·· · · ·
,. . : I '
00
•
o1git1zed by G.oogle
PEARCE, THE BLA:CK
A. D. 1400;'
God made !lnd woman, multiplied . cxccPdinnly. ;
and yet they were made of but one thing. This wos the slime
of the earth, pure clay or !lflnd, but grey freces, enlied du'st.
The turned to blood ·to A!ln.m; which· signifies red
earth ; au fire were contmned n'l th1s blood: 'fbe bright·
J1et1S of the' Holy Ghost was the air, and the lightness that gave
life was tlie fire: this is not to'be done in the by m·any spt:-
rits, but by one spirit; it is to be made by kino, naturnlly' with a
spirit t)lat abides in the body kindly-tbis·spirit is disregarded by
men ; and Y.et is the best spirit in the world : it18 of sinall cost,
and sure in ita operations. It is so rich and powerfut, that if all
the wP,i-ld was turned into it could restore all as good
as it was before. · ·· · ' · .... • · . , •
of earth, earth's mother and water, and fire of
earth, .pure and subtile, with' cleai water shining bright·;
thtoo days union separate the water;" which has now obtained :a
soul; ihere tetnains a heavy it t)lree days with •
fire, and IIE'e red 'blood-the earth
Jtuuh1ng ·must· be purged by fire ·for· three hours. Place the
purged earth in.a slass, with· some of the 'water which was its
own, and place it m the heat tiU it ·abwrbs tpe water; whim
it is united to the water, ·add the blood ·whitb was its own, and
when it has absorbed the blood : then •feed 'k with milk and
tbeat becomes onr_
stone;·t!ll'"ing all mitable bOdies intoita
ownd1gn1ty. ... · · · · .,; .,.., · ··..' '
There is no yray but one ; as ihe human 8peciPS can only
be in doe way_, so sun and moon, earth water
are' spenn, · taken out of one· body. Mercury says,
I am eource ofgold,- silvel', and iron, generator ofJove,
the settler of Saturn;' and source of Venus. ; I iun botb'sun'
and moon·; I do alhhmgi;; my is the mother
of all wcrks, and incloaes ·a gold•'andisilvri'eeed;' a rich spt!I'Dl
full of bright _
seed of Of tlUs my
daughter..are ··m&qe th:e flpun; :white·.and red; tlierefo'l'e
if yon seek to lelll'll thls saence;· you must draw a clear water
from .her; this water reduces every thing to tenderness and
fixation. :The rerl oil is extracted ·in three hours, and dige6t5
with red earth in seven weeks toa qfone upon two htJg..
dred ofmercury. · -,. . . , '· ... · · ·
•
o;9,11zed by Google
299
' undcrl'ltaitd that' the floe enrth liid within the body'a
ecntr(', is by the water of wood or of wine united to tbe
moisture of the grape. This and sericon makes the magistery;
for it becomes a mercury, and then an essence. When
you have drawn out all that can be distilled &om the gom, un-
derstand thnt this contains three qualities ; first, ardent water of
life, which is separated in a slow heat, and butnslike ·spirit of
wine. It is called our attractive mercury, wherewith is
a chrystalline out of all metalline- colours ; this does not
concern our work Then runneth a small quantity of white
water like milk; this the sperm of the stone-it is.animal,
vegetable, and mineral ; our quicksilver and '\'irgin's milk,
with the perruaneut mercurial water, washes the earth till it
ftows like gum, and then the red gum rises in a dry tire, which
. is the soul of uturn our gold ; this oil makes tbe stone zed.
Thus we have two gum, as. well aa two elixirs.
'·'
THE WORK OF
SIR EDWARD.KELLY,
•
From tlJe Book of St. Dunstan.
It ia no costly thing that produces magnesia in its kind :
JOadc pure from its leprosy, as he can tell that unbinds the
fastness of the earth. Eve, the wife of Adam, was taken from
his side while he slept ; it is in the same manner with our stone,
and when the man and wife are jpined, they produce their kind;
th111 the stone produte$ its own wife, who multiplies to. ·it
finitely. These •re ·auJphur and mercury; mercury is the·
.•ife and eaence of the sulphur, and aa meal and water mixed
together ia neither meal or water, but dough, and being balu:d•.
is neither dough, water, or meal,. but bread ; so it is in our
mercury is water, and the sulphur is meal; they
O>inbine in one pasw, which is digested into a new nature.-
The c:aild of this marriage is born in the air, saith Ripley, and.
ia there baptized with a heavenly unction, which ia able to revive
the child, the father; and the mother after their death. T alee ·
this stone, in which is.all thin_ss; it will be gummous, crumbling,
Wk.eu and soft; beat it· !i&le PQW:der, it with die
o1git1zed by Coogle
.Jlc7temicCil Trcali&cs.
m·er<:urhd &litJltot .,.ntdtha5 to twE!rflMr it. .All tht!
work a:Jter though 'by a hundred names, izt only cir-
culation, by which the hlackne$ of whiteacss of Ugbt;
M!d redne!lt of fire are manifes.OO. 'l'his is not doDe by the-
hands; but is the true &ecret work ofnature, by beat actiug on
the Jnatter. When thie wheel of the three colours is turned
dlJ'ee tUDes about, you have the medicine flowing like wax.-
1thich project upon tell parts of gold;. and· t!lis wiU'
tt:D ..rtiai..
OF
Take tllc clcor Tight of 'tit:rit stld tTte bright red
gum, which is the sulphur vive, or philosophers gold ;.join theni'
with the water of light, .let nn vapour escape, and keep the fire
Hke the sun .in . In iliree hoots will see
nmrvellous- colours, black, wlrtte,. ted, arttJ.. citron ; let not
your vessel: be open until you have engendered the
.
Oj ITze Greeu Lirm.
. . '
T
n greeidion&' bed; the IIUO mid'moon· are bam; theyariJ
mart'icd, and beget n king. The king feeds on the lions' .blood.
which is,the king's fath$' tlnd mother, who are at the same ti-me:
his hrotTtet and &ister. I' imr I betray the whiCh lpro-
mi'scd my master wc&nceal itl dsJ;k &om eteiy one thu-.
m;,esoot knoW' how to tlllo the plnl6&opheft fire.,
When yott hnvu fed your lion with aol and luna; ·
laf tAelll im
an easy heat, enclose t'herh like liD' egg ; a. long will elaps«
. the king niter btiving eaten all the lion's;blood; and
Itt· Jenbrth. be grows ilark and dl)':.like lamp-Wack ; then .'the me'
Jnay be <tncre;l8ed ope <legl'eo ; >for the 'sweat of the lion, which..
whim to tM:.&Una:waa:shutt 1\al·aowuit-t<l
o;9,11zed by Google
Robf.tlaon•
.with him, 101d is imbibed, or soaked·up, if' it was- rightly pro.
portioned ; but if ther.e wall too mpch moisture, it wiil be the
longer in drying; and if waa not sufficiently wet,· the child·will
llic of thirst. · . · · ·
. Imbibe six. th,nes with eight d.. between each, and then in,
aix. weeks. iu· the bl6cknes& will and pass.
tiJlallis whiter this may be ihmel)too. !Or tlut wbite
or otherwise prOCfi!ed to the red .by COQt;ioul\tion·.ohhe fire;-
\Pen ferJI)ent red powder with pure gold, b\lt the secret is to.
tuke the thing that began the work ; join Jama l\lld ·the blood of.
the green lion as at first, and with it ferment the white or red, one
to tour, without cooling the matters, anu seal the glass aguin till
you see the black, white, and red. There is no better .multi-
plkution than to repeat the work of the ferment. ·
BLOOl\IFIELD'S PRACTICE OF THE CHAOS.
·. • . ' • ·,' . • • ; : .' • .
The chaos, 88 Ovid ia an
·ing divers natures; it is the vme white red : join
of the · female; .tQ one Q[ the red mole, in perf('(;t
unity by bring it into dust by three pn.rhl Qf the:.
fiery dragon, and temper them together ; cloae the ,glus. 11r·cl.l.
and keep moderate tire 11ight;aAd day, as a hen on her eggs.
Atler fOrty day&, it be.:omfH ; a.fi:l?r fol·ty more, .it will
white, _
and afterwaf(is all. the· colows of the rain-bow or
peaGock's tail will the fire may be gradually ...
til). yellow appears, then..the·red, whicll bel ia {Qr'J
&,.y$.in a UnCilture ofaile upon,a .hun,dl'ed. ·
.·moMAS ll.OBINSC>N.
Of tlte 'l'incture;
.In six. days ali the variety of the universe was created fioiJl
QJle abyss. From one stone there proceeds four elen1ents; anW'
&om these foilr the stone·is made ; the fin;t was a gritt, the last
is,a swqe ; without the la$t .could..awt bel madtt
o;9,11zed by Google
.Alclletnical Ttcatises.
though it eeeltls too had for that ptiJi>dse• When the
were separated from the earth, the earth was cohobated with the
heavens. In the beginning there was hea.•en-.and earth, not
heaven alone ; the earth is the tnother of all, the heavens ate but
essential efll'tllf;. If there was nd whence cduld the water,
air, or lire proceed; and if there were no.hca•ens, nothing could
be produced on the earth. The heavens shllll purify the earth
in six thousand yeal'l through life and death then all shall rest
eternally divine, shining by the beauqr of the God.;head 2 this il!
' 'he much desired stone. ·
Of the !tlatter of the Stone.
Our stone is one ; many things help it, but two arc maieri41J,
.-hich only difFer so far as mother and cbild, or male and femi:ile.
It is a stone, attd stands the fire, but in touch or it is a·
subtile earth, brown, ruddy, and tiot clear; when it tsseparated
we nafue it litharge from its appearance; and when it is whitetled•-
we c:all it our chosen marcasite. This is to be made by the ar-
tist, as it cannot be purchased : it is esteemed as of no· Vf\lue-,
though it 1s better than gold. The otl1et stone i& glorious,
fair, and glittering with called maghesil1• . Yotl shall
take no other materials than these two to make out stone-, except
.sal armoniac and sulphur ofkind, such as you may find out of
metalS : these two will fulfil your desire ; you must not begin
with metals or quicksilver; but if you destroy thekcomposition,
some of their compounds will help in the conclusiont which is
itill to the same purpose as the magnesia and litharge its
bJ;other.
:
Of ·the Grosa 1Vo,·k.
Arnold says, our secret is to know the thing on which oll1'
W'Qrk taketh ground, and how to find pure and simple
Aviccn saith, that it is to eat as it drinks, and drink as it eats 4'
and it will sweat temperately. Rhasis set the dietary, not to eat
<J,uidc, aull w !of wa\dWlg
' '
o1git1zed by Coogle
Worl·. S03
ni,.,rht and da.y, and great pnins to feed it aright; therefore the
belongs to.lhO!'e :who.bavc .
and with
J:mty and steadmcss. The foulest part of tne·work 1s to clarify
our mineral means. Albert writes openly of it ; it is a mechanical
art, but full ofperH and mischances: be uniform, beware of the
c:ommnpon of and let nothing escape.
. . .
Of tile -Subtle
Leaden-han, London, 1465;
Qne ,vas of Loti'am, the otber two of England ; the
chimtoo a prc>phecy, that when the ia ·honoured ip the
A.f God, this be by science above all
natiOJfs Hortulan describes the sul>tle work under the docttme
of"the vine, grapes; wine, tartar, and·atcohol; 'fot the exhiP,ition
of die air, water, fire, and oftile stohe.· I.t is shewp alSo by
baking iind inoietlJre isoperative by heat; this is easier
underStood by sight than speech. Heat and mOisture makea
black, makes white, and in the white i$ W.
..reeL
o1git1zed by Coogle
JOHN D'ESPAGNET..
1. In the philosophers toil time, tlaan cost f.
•
for' he that hath com·cnient matter, need be at little
mepence; besides, thO&e ti•at puntatier.gr.eat store ofmoney, and
place their chief end in \\·ealth, they trust mo.re to thE-ir riches,
than their own aft. Let therefore' the too credulous fresh-man
be-ware of tlaelc fQr':whilst they promistr
mountains, tht? lay in tor.goli.l; tiiey demand briglit
-mng &1, . awoey beiar.c haQd, they walk m
' . ; . . . ·.· '
. 2. As .thote ail &Ula a,nd 9:e
.dangEI' on bOth tidH; Wlto po lees ar.c *eysubJect wh.o
prey of.the.goWen fleer.e, we· l>etween the •m-
.teert:ain r.ocks ·of .the 8qd ·The
·more their constant :r.etulipg ofgll8!l'e crcdihle au-
by the irradjant SUJ? !J_Jlto the
of but arc at n stand m the of the plulo&Opherl!
fur writers have twisted it with so mauy winditigs and
meanders, involved it with' so many equivocal names, that
it may be sooner met with by force of the seekers intellec4
be found by reason or _
toil. .. · '
· s. That philosophers might the deeper drown their mercury in
darkne18, they h.ave ma4e it'manifold, and placed
yet diversely, m every part and of work, nor
wiJI be attain unto a perfect knowledge tbereof, wbo tdlllll be ig:-
ofany part of th'e work. . · · · · · ·
· -{:; hnve acknowledged a tpreefold mercury espe-.
prepaJ"ation of the.tirst ?cgree, an4
ph1losophrca1' subbmattop ; for tbeu they call 1t their
and merq.iry · · · · · ·' · · · ·
• 5.' the philosophers do sometimes call perfect elixir
apd their mercury, thoug}i
'he of onl.Y prol?erly ug;ec
bes1des that wh1c4 IS region of the
work, they call mercury: but ebx1r tt Is most n)l:ed, can-:-
·ha!e the .simple .and .the;efore they have
stiled Jt the1r own to 1t from the vo-
latile. ' A &traight way is oiily laid down for them to 1ind'out anq
discern 8c:> many merC\lries of the ·
Quos amavit
Jupiter, aut ardens evexit ad aetbcra virtus,
' • . l '
o1git1zed by Coogle
· · D'Jf.spagnet. S05
· 6, Jn the pl1ilosophicnl sublhriation nr first preparation of
. Hcrculcnn labour must' be undergone by theworkman;
for .Trt!lon had in vain attempted his expedition to Colchos withio
out Alcidt-s. · · . 1 · . • .
7. The ll:ltural qunlity of'philosophical earth and the til1llp
tJwrcof, seems to be touched by the poet in this verse-
. !;olnm primis extemplo a mensibus nnni
· Fortes invertnnt Tauri---- ·· ·i
- Tunc Zephyro putrls sc gleba resolvit.
. ' . .
8. He that calleth the philosophers luna or their mercury, the
common doth \vittin(J'ly deceive, or is deceived; sn:the
writings of Gel>e1· teach u_s {cap. I. 4.) that Jhe philosopnera
m<.•rcury is urgent \'ivc, yet.not ofthecommon iort; but may be
cxtractccl out (If.it by the pftilosoprters skill. · .. . . ·
9. The mercury ha'th divers names; sometimei
it·is called earth, sometimes water in a divers respect, it
ariseth from them both. The earth is _
subtle, white.
sulphurou!'i, in which the clements are fixed, and the philOso-
phicul goJd is !jOWO .: the water is water of }ife, burning,
n1imcnt; most dea.r, water of and but
mercury, because It lwth m 1t sulphur ot Its o\\ID, whiclt ta
plied by art, it deserves to be called the sulphur of •....;.
Last of all the must precious substimce is Ven.tis, ·tlie. ancients
h<.·rmaphrodite, in each sex.. . ' ' . :
10. That dry and most precious liquor doth con'stitute the
<.lieu! moist11re of mctuh;, whereft}re of some of the it ·is
<'all<..'<l.glass; for glass is extracted out 'of the radical
c1oscly lurking in ashes which will not give place, ti!lless. it be
hottest_ffame; OlltwithstamJing our or;centra} men;urt
cl1scovers. 1tself by most gentle 11nd 'kmdly (though _
a li.ttfe.
more tedwus) fire of nature. · . · · · ·
.. H. The stone is exalted by successive digestions, as by de•
grces, and ut length attaiueth'to p,erfec.tion. Nowfour digestion'
ngreeable . to the t<.nir chief operations: or · do
the whole work, author whereofis the
n1akes their difference. . .' .
12. The fust. digestion· operateth the sohit\on of .t'be bOdy,
-,vherchy comes the fit.;t conjunction of..inale arid·female, the
of both seeds, putrdaction, the o(thc ele·
·1nents into)10mogeneal water, the eclipse of 'the and trioon
in the head.of the, dragon, and lastly it the who};,
world into its ancient and dark _This fir&t digestiotl
Js made as in tlic stomach, of a melon colour and more fit
for than _ . .. .. · ·
13. In the seCOtld digestion the spirit ofthe-
Lord walketh upon
the waters; the ligbtbegins to appear, an<;! a scp_nration
Pp . .
o1git1zed by Coogle
.Alclu:mica(
Yrom.tf-., •ters.; -the &Ul' and ·10000 ate renewed; the clemf'llf5
ofthe chaor., being perfectly mixt Ml spirit,
.r.e,m.,.oonSCll•t.e a W4>rld; .a new Ilea••• ne.- earth are
Jnade; and lastly, all are become spiritual• . Tlte crews
ftliiiDg aoesel.ngi.-g tlwia· teacher& tb ptw incc. doves, tile
e!'f(le and.lion-ernbtJOe one RrJOtnet Wldt am eternal And
thlS _generation of the world is made by too fier)' spA-it d<'seeud•
ing m tbt;fOr-m :Of-.w•er, and wiping origmal.sin iOr the
philosophers fire, •·hich is mo...ed by llae 9t•at ot"
a bath. . .lhat d-: ofwaten be dioDe }a: weigh&
ami mcustm.>, Jest tho&e that remam under hmr•·ea be drown..
or tho.e things that are maldl.ed up above-
]JQ·.t09 of aridity. ·
;. 14. The thitd digestion ofthenewlygenerated d'rioketh
t:lew1. milk,. and aU virtues efthequintesseAcc,-
and fasteneth the fJUidleaing sonl to the body by 1M-spirits medi-
the .el\rtb lnyech qp a great treasore in itscl( antl .i9
JPaPC, a&crw*fd!t So ruddy SUR; tLc tQ,..
.js called tbc "a.nb. of die J.OOOR,, 'Ire lattc.r iJre cartf1 of the
both.ahhem ¥begot of the ofthezn both:
)\either of.tllC1Jl Ut11longer tfiC of the Are, bctause
wlltl.t aH i fOr ba,·e been ole& eleqnscd from siR
U'Dtilall tire element&
Me .tl.Jfnql
1 :15. digestion eonsummatetft all af
the world, and rhe earih being tHrRcd' into excellentleave,.
becausP. it hath .before ·passed
into •ltc ·heavcn\y nl!.turc of qniutesien:ce. . 'IRe •irtue tf.ercof'
!fowif!g .from .tl1e .spirit unh-erse is a prese&t aild
for aU the diseases ofall creatures, the diges-
Qf tbe.tirst being wiU open k> thee tLe pliilo-
.Be r1gl1t m thy works, .that tlou mayest
:find God favourable; &Mlerwioe ploughing of &he earth witl be
. . ·
.. .. or' weik is nodling"
aolunon o.nd C.OJ!lgelat'lon the seli:ilJOn of tlle body, anti ron•
oftlle spirit; .there is bttt operation
uf both: the lixed and volatile are perfectly mixcd.al.Ul united in
the;ppirje, -wpi.ch unJlot J:>e, done, the fixed:body be firsc
and volatile.. By reduction is the YOlatile bodyfixed
..a;peonaneJlt bedy, and 'lolatile nature dollt al last change
.one,:as. the fixed na,.are 'had before passed into 'lola-
,tile. Npw:so eonfu&ed i;n the spirit, that
spait a.middle llature body andspirit, fixed
fWd.v.94ttile. . ·
17. The first mover of natal'e' is the moderator
of the ·Whoie..,-ork.; let the philo8Qpher the':e-
¥e!'Y loli'Uler$t'llld. observeU.
Dogitozed by Coogle
1YEspnguet, 301
:and fhr thence the
'fhll!l ott ftclpt>llr nature,- tf1c
JS the minfstl!r ofb6t11: · · · · '. · · ' ·; ro- ·' : · ·; ·. ·"' •:
J6. Uv the.c two art nrtd ,atuf.e.,ithei
,ct!t itscl( up frotn t'arth· ttl ' ltt'ln·eJll grcnt:. ilnS
shd(>th .fi'Oln to hecau!4t> the cm·th t1ijrse,· aritf
J1ci.ng eotl'rird in du! "A'OJtlb of the \\iM; it est
nnd itderion;,. · · · · · ' ·.·•· ·· · : .. •· ·
f9. l'b.ilosop1J('r6 "!I!'(' ·observed a·direc-tbfd. 'm·the'-
ter Of their a.vorJc, namroi, ·not aJ:tnmst 1', . .
UIQTal tire fil"')' c;elestial' spb't kept ·• :_
ttl@
profitndit; al ml1ttet'. stti.edr
the 0: mctai · t.elnt
np freed hy me lWei,'it
nntc of mo:vinff body $cJiiO
't mformetJt its by JlCrletl'ttttOil; ·diJ'ab\0-
c<mgclntion. I!I a•ery isfht
pnllCJplc of1leut nnd nmtton, . 4re teey'·IHHfte- ·tlitit
whieb beirtg called nmt -
nwll£
that 1t rmycnet'l"aseat1d
the streagth of natural heat. T'lt'e fire contr•ry·to tutturc·they4f4
fbat whict, putrifics the aud corrupteth tcmpera-
JDcnt of raatu:re; jt is imperfect, beU,a too weak for
l'atioR, it is not cnrrJcd beyond the bOQnds ofc<frrt.tption: such is
titc ire or lacnt ofthe men::;tl'.ll-'i'tn syet it bat.lathe improperly
IJfare ngahtst IUltHI'e, beenuse iJl .4!- IDill)ner it is
Ptre, tOr sal:viug the specipcnl form, it so the
J)lat it disposetb it ;eneration. •
That ';VC may leave nothiog w.toucbed, let tJae
p\ilOS?phy rltat first_ sulplu,r, a isgenerat- .
oo whtch may be 1,. Ulfinttnm: let tlte w1seman,
hata got the everlastiag mineral' of that fire, keep
of "'hat matter is generated, q( tbe
it .is mu!tipiied, :a 11014ll portion ofthe first being yet in
the fire.rest a see L,ulli,_s,
suffice only to pomt at Jt.
· 'eli,Ur iB compounded ofa thceeklld matter, pamely
of mctailic w4ter or mercury s"btimated as before ; of leaven
jvhite OJ; according to the intention of $e operator, and of
the sulphur, all in weight,' · ··'· ··' · · · '
· The way of multiplyi11g the is threefold. By the
first, mingle one weight of red -,vith Qine weights of i"
red water, and dissolve if jnto 'water in a aolutory vessel,
curdlethe matt'er well and unite by decocting it with a
gentle fire, until it be m,ade strong into a rubv red lamel,
which afterwards incere'·with ita red oil, after. the manner pre-
eeribed until it ftow ; so shalt thou have a medicine ten times
more powerfql than the first. The business is easily fini.hed in a
time.
o1git1zed by Coogle
808 .Alcllemical T1·eanscs.
: 25. Dy the &ecoltd manqcr. what potion tl1ou plcnsesr of thy
elixir nUud wiJ;h its water, weights being observfld ;-:-:seal
it very well in the vessel of reduction, dis.solyc it in a bath, by
being dissolved, distil it, separating the elements
pr'!Per fires, and fixing them downwards, .as was done in
abe and 6Ccond work, until it. bea stone ; lastly, incere itand
it. Tpis is the longer, but yet the richer wny, for the vir4
tue of the elixir is increased unto an hundt·ed fold, for by how
mucla more it is made. by reiterated operations, by so
auch .both of superior and interiQr it rcta.iurtb,
and more powerfully operates.
.Lastly, take one ounce .of t\1e sn.id elixir multiplied in
aud proj.ect it upon an hundred of purified mercury, and
in.a, time mercury made bot amongst. burniug coals, will be
qtl)vcrted p!ll'e elixir, whereof if thou custcst evc.cy ounce
upon an, other.hundred of the We mercury, sol will shine most
9ureJy tP. thipe eyes. The multiplication of white elixir mny be
JDade the same way. Take the ofthis medicine to cure all
kinds .of and to preserve good health, ns nlso .the use
.thereof, outofthew.ritingsof 4rnoldusde an<l
philosophers. . .
• ' .J
I ••·.
"' c,
' ' !
. , ( • I ,•
.. · I •
.,,
' "
j .
." ; J .r:•• .. :,
• • ; • ' )') 1 . . • ! ..
. .. ·I ! '!, .•. J! .
I ' ', :: l o • / ' • , ; , • ' , • 1_: • J ( • '
If ,
:' ·•'f! ,
.. ;,.,
,.; ,, •. f 11 . • '
· .,, 1
i L1c·· ·:; ..
Dtgit•zed by Coogle
BERNARD
OF
,.
Now I {pi<'tntc motus) bt>ing moved by brotherly affection•.
"·ill di!tcloso the propct· name of thi11 matter, and declare it with-
Arnold of rt't.'\J'Uing old age. lo'Qr he calls it chiftir mincrale,
is, animal stone, the pt·eparation of which the
hnvc concealed. There is also 1\Uothcr name for it, especially
for the mineral stone, the preparation of which they have also
kept secret; some calling it abissini bistumi, others t.be mineral
chaos, in which is contained a very grt.>at mineral power. In
. which aJl ml't.nls lie glistt•ring in obsc1:1rity. Some affirm, that
the matter of this stone is notbiJ)g else than a corporeal spirit oC
the world, f(mncd in the matrix of the earth, from which it JJ!-
ccivcs all its animal, vegetnble and .mineral fitculties, as waa.
As wax f\!Ceivcs the. impression of any shape and,
form,, so does argent vive, lurking in the matter of the stone,,.
receive the properties ·or proprieties of' all things. The stone
(says a learned man) of the wist! men, is perfected in itself, ,and
by itself. .The roots, branches, leaves, flqwers and fruit, aro
then like a tree; now .what numerous boughs there are belonging
to one tree? An«l then, ·what a n1ultitude of seeds r In like mo.n.-
ner is this our philosophic fr\litful t.·ee, containing in itself the
seed of gold and silver; which seed, .if sown in its proper earth,
brings forth sols and lunas' ad i1!finilu11J, as .other seeds sown · in
the ground. For natw:e naturnlly acts and operates perpetually
on tbings of its own nntur.e,. and not of a divcr8e species, much
less then in a diverse kind. For by bow much the the
diversity of things is, by so much the greater als,, is tbe unity
of thillbts? For nature disposes ull things in potentia, for as
much as tb,at art should and dqes perfect actu. For exnmplo,
nature has and does produce matter whereof is made;.. but
in no place glass itself. In like manner it bail also created iron
ill a rude matter, committing it to us, in a rough, un-
fiwupncd and confused t<mn, tbnt thet·ewitb we make hofl&sbo<.'S,
launce11, or whatsoever we plqase. Thus nature has abo
created herbs, trees, gems, corals, gold, and every thing the
·eye can see; yet as they are, they cannot be called mcdicinett
but !rude and unrefined sublltances, .by c:hemistry .are $P
.ordert.'<l into .medicines, ns to pqrgc, ,diS!k>lve 1m<l ·separate .tbcl
from the <1ualities; otherwise the putri6
would ,with·. the; putrid, and the cornapt wich the cor.
,{f.bJots GP'l pf has :creatt:d an only-
h' t I ' ,:.: • ,.,, . . . '
o1git1zed by Coogle
.Alchemical 1'rcati§t8.
certain simple matter, by which the stone may be made, which
wise men have CRlled the root of metals. \Vhich matter, if not
disposed by chemical philosopby a from its
power of perlormiitg, to performailce itself, it will always rc.,.
·main in the aame state, of which the matter lfhcrcof gla$s is
formed is in, which is not• glal!!l itscl(, till means be used by an
au-tist to make it so. The matter of this stone is one only thing,
as I have often said l)cforc, which, as being but one thing,, is
aumbered o't divide(t. Which, if -numbered, . it is no 1Uorc
one thing; and if <Jivided, it then begins to be eomposl'cl. If
you profit by pl,iloeophy, to take one
only tbmgf (sunple) whosoe,•er ddes otht>rwrse, ·wtll never fiu<J,
un end· or perti.'!Ctiol1. \Vhereas namre from one
all, and thus in one both agree togctber; for nature is ihe mother,
•d art bet <laughter. Now where nature art beginsi
arid tbis and no othe•· "avs i11 the order and rule of truth?· \Vhcu
dlerefure you have found·that one matter which contains all
in itself, exhibit not other extraneous matters to this, with an in-
tePtion to bring it to perfection ; they will not bring it to pcr-
but corruption ; itnd yo11 ·will gtie\"ously deceh•e your7
'ffeff; fur the matter of our stqrte is one only thing; yet pot sq
very bwt· it ctmtttins· the fotJr elemeu'ts, ·as·othel"
meatary bodies do. For planted in the grountl
wtb tiuit in itA proper season; ih, through, and oy itselft
ollt" matter, if if.rt4· bedewed with its own matter,
trill bring forth (as the tree) its frqit, which, ifso\Vn 'Upon impure
metals, will undo.,htedly transrnqte ·thein pure · •
this philosophic tree contains it1 .fts.elf is ·neeessary
for itself, without any mans• ·i!.ssistance. · ·· ·'
The wMk is and reqqires not much only much
.,atience and waiung fur; · Ifyou but· untfe the. knot.on
the work may then be well work, and ch•ldi·ens
play. Now in the l)atne·of God wiU I doolore ·tlte practic and
method.of workiftg, hOw the grea«: elixir brought
to perfection, ordie white and red. tincture, (X)Yilposcc.l ' only of
abe.mcreury of the . ·
:Rnttmony to perfect pertectwn, convertmg all rmperfuct
tnto r-re sol and lune, far excelling that produced by natu1·e.
·From therefOcethe mercury of the philosophers, ·n•hich they call
.their prima matt!lia, or first ·matter: tftewa.qf.iMtls, frigid ·and
·humid elfll'nent t their aqua perina\'lef15; 'theft t&piritt'l&
..npor unctUosus, aqua benedicta, their \'MOM,
-tutn, their roa calestis, gratim, theirlllc virghtis,' their tnercurius
magoosiae 111dht · and ..,, iufblite
'1\ttiUOii, wllidt ym. rmty io pliilosotJbicbOOks.-.Wttfth
!though going by divers i'l!ames, yet.li!Ways 'fligt:My: .-U.:the
· ntt!t·cury of 'Wille
·,rulntooe Jli madtt and
thlli prince of philosophers, our it not per(ccted in a.
o;9,11zed by Google
Pcnotus. ·
o( things; but it is on.e thing alone, it is one stoJl(',
os;c m<.>dicinc, UJ, wflich consists the To whic.h v.·e dp
not ndll.:..uy thilig, its pr!·par(l,Wu,
supcrflmucs : for m nnd hy 1t nrc all t.hmgs for
work, to which we.add not (I say} any )lc...
ctmse of gold and silver; fi,r they are not lQ the
itself, if furmcntcd therewith, tl1ey then·.bei.ng both .condjnto,r;s
to the snmet by which the physical work is tinbhed. Anoth..-,
phiiO!iopher snys we mukc use of venernble na.,-
turc cannot be mended or ntade better but by thinp of its owtt
nnturc. Therefore we must not introduce any thing of 4¥l
nttturc ns a helper to tbis work; nor powder, nor water, nqr 3n1
'thing of &n extraneous nature. li'oi· cliveJ:s tbiogs do betUlr
th;t<.>fore. 'tis only ,J?Crfected. the merl:JJTf
of the plulosophers. Therefore .the afo1:cmentumed mercury ..
the ottly radix physico, t.he arbor Qha from wltich infin.i,te
Slre multiplied I and this is that S\()De which
'so often ii1 the books of philosophers, and w,i)ich.they
·the fira;t opel'{ltion of the stone is called hQy
lhis mercury of the pbilo119pllcrs QUght to be
'l>rought to pe&ction, shall be laid open iu th.e
'lines,' without any . or obscurity.
that this is not vulgar, .but physi<;tU•
tion being nothing else but 'a subtiHatwn Qf a .thing. ·
physical sublimation is elevatiot; non-:.ti;<e.d,ppr.ts froqt
the fixed. Fo1· the subtile non-fixed arc elevated py fum•
from the fixed pal'ts I would that they be not QDF
one trom another, but remaiJl ·together in mu,tual
And now kn()w. that he wi)ic.h conjoins our physical
ri_ghtly, sublimes it, (i. e. it)..in which QqJtWQs.
vn·tue of our stone, that mal•cs and fiOlsbes Q),lr whole
For as Geber snys the whole perfection of the art oplf
in the right manner Qf vesael, aod .
of fire. Because in this subluuation, every thing oft.Qis ore mAdp
and do consist, viz. sublimation, distillation, NQensiori,
sion, putrefaction, calcinl\tion,
· Take, 1n the name of the ,Lord Je11us the
prepared mercury, the water of philosophers, tb,e pri111um
of t-he wise men, put it into clean, bright,
\'essel. Close ib mouth vct·y well with seal, aiJd
it suffocate in its temperate and warm little .bed {Qr a
'phers month. Ne,·cr in that moutb.s .time w
lor then ails undone; till you have sublimed sp long, i$
wilhweat no longer, i. e. till there is nothing eithe.l"
to ascend or descend ; and till that matter witbi.n hi!gina to
putrity; ·be and fixed by vi.-tue of the
maintenance of its due heat, that nothing .will .ftf!Cend
any,longer, in any airy f\Qnous subsbplce, but Qq
It$ ®in& all drawn
'. - . . . . - .
o1git1zed by Coogle
Alc1wnical 'Trrntfus.
coagulated, atid turned into n black eaJ1h, wllidl is tTte
crows head, the black and drr elcmcnt, &c. 'Ilwn i:i tl:e true
sublimation of the philOllophC:rs cxpeditC(I. ln "'·hiclt sublima-
tion all the fill'c-mcntion<'d manners of doings t•xist, viz. wlu-
tion, distillation, coagnlation, putrefaction, calcination, and
fixation in one vessel, nnd on o?c. o?ly furnace, as wa.s
spoke or befi)re. For when our stone ISm lbi vessel, and when
, it shall ascend by fumes to the top of the same, it is then callt.-d
sublimation and ascension. But when it precipitates f1·om the
top of the to the bottom and its neth<'r ends, then it is
cnlle•l distillation and· desccnsion. ·And when by it:s very much
asceRsion it begins to then it begins to be coagulated
also, and is called putrefaction and coagulation. But when
. length (tl1e humidity of' Its radical moisture being exhausted) it .
begins to be calcined nnd fixed ; it is called calcination nnd fix-
ation. And all this uno actu, by decocting tl1cm at one time
altogether in one ·ve,sel, and on one fm•nnce, (as l1as bcch often
said before.) From which.may be observed that the' separation
of the four elements in the •tone, is not vulgar but
,.Because our sublimation being finished, the clements (as was
told 1ou before) are perfectly Yet in our stone tltere
are only two formal elemt>nts, vl:t. earth and water. Earth,
which virtually contains fire in itself Ly reason of its dryness,
as water contains in like mamter air in itself, bv t"t>nson of its
humidity or moistness. It may further be obsc"rved then, that
in our stone there are but two formal elements, though there be
four virtually. Therefore there is not a separation of four ele-
·mcnts, as fools and idcots conceive. There is a certain hidden
aecret in our matter, whose work and virtue is perceived, \'iz.
earth and water. But the other two, '·iz. air and fire, nre nol
perceived; (nee quicquam Iargiu!ltur) nor their residing
place be seen no more than tnctr ,.Jrtuc, as m the other two
elements of cnrth and water. By such a privation therefore of
humidity, which is caused hy sublimation:, the \'olatile is .made
fixed, the soft l1ard, and the wnter earth. And ns Geber says,
the mutation of nature into nature, also u of complexions
b made; for the cold and moist complexion is comcrted
·cho1e1'ic and·dry, becoming also spiritual, corporeal, and liquid,
'tbick, nnd so on the contrary; Therefore the say
·wisely, when they say, the operation of our stone is nothing else
butthe permutation of nature and revolution of clements.
by such an incorporation we cftange the moist and volatile into
• fixed, the spiritual into corporeal, and the liquid into thick, the
watry into fiery, and the airy into eartlliy. .
• tl1e says, t}1at the water or spirit of stone
1s all m o.Il, and lS the only tlHng sought after, and reqmstte fin:
this work; for in it is the 1lying and fix!.'d, the tingjng and
(ingcd, the white and red masculine and feminine compu!ied to-
gcthC!f-by an·inE-Cparnble cornp9Sition. Lully says, the spirit' rs
o1git1zed by Coogle
Ripley. 313
the first .principal secret, the water the next, from which two
things every thing receives its nutriment, and every tree, sprout
nnd herb its vegetation, and light its illumination. This
wnter curries lite, light and spirit with it; but why does Lully
call the wnter the second principal secret, &c• .which .the other
philosophers cnll the oil? The reason is, because it is drawn in
the second·place after thespirit; the oil is nothing else tRan the
rndicnl, pure and incombustible humidity of metals, in which
does most especially consist the metallic essence and for,m (and
nisi totum compositum aqua fiat, pulvis non erit fusibilis, nee
ingrcssum habebit,) to which water the whole is reduced, by a
xnodcrnte and continual humid heat.
FIVE PREPARATIONS
OF THE
PHI/..QSOPHERS .!tiERCURY;
',
BY SIR GEORGE RIPLEY.
I. Take the green lion without dissolution in vinegar,
{ns sometimes the custom is) pur it in a latge earthen retort,
which cnn endure the fire, nnd distil it the same way jlS
distil aqua fortis, putting a receiver under it, and 1ut-
mg the joints well, that it may not respire :-then distil first
with a gentle fire, till you sec white fumes appear, then change
the receiver, stopping it well, and distil with a great fire so, as
aqua fmtis is distilled, thus continuing twerlty-fOur hours, aud i£'
you contitme the fh·e the space of eight days, you will see the
receiver always full of white fumes, and so you will have the .
blood of the green lion, which we eall secret water,. and ace-,
tum acerrimum, by which all bodies are reduced to their. first
matter, and the body of mali preserved from all infirmities.-
This is our fire, burning continually in one form within the
glass vessel, and not without. Out dunghill, our aqua vitre,
our balneo, out vindemia, our horse-belly, which effects wonder•
f11l things in the works of natUre, and js the examen of all
dies dissolved, and not dissolved; and is a sharp water, carrying
ke in its belly, as a fiery water, for otherwise it would pot
. .
o1git1zed by Coogle
.A.lchemicnl 1i-ealius.
ltave tne power of dissolving bodies intf> their matter. Be-
hold I this is our mercury, our sol and luJJa, which we use iJJ
our work. Then will you find in the bottom of the vessel freccs.
.black as coals, which you must for tne space of eight dayi cal-
eine with a gentle fire, &:c.-Libro Accurt. p. 383.
. II. Take adrop, that the green lion, which \\'e spoke of
before, and tlissolve it in distilled vinegar for the space of
ieven djlys, shaking well the vessel tlie matter is in,
three times daily, then empty the dissolved liquor, and di:til
through a filter three times from its till it be .:lear ns
ehrvstal, and evaporate the vinegar with a gentle fire, till it be
thick as bird-lime, which yoa cannot stir by reason cf its vis-
cosity, and being cold, tuke it out of the vessel, and keep it;-
and again make more of it, and this do, till you have twelve
pounds of this green lion or adrop reduced to the form of a gum,.
then have you the earth extracted from the earth, and the brother
of the eprtb. Then rake a pound of that gum, and put it in a
glass vessel of the bigness of a bottle, well luting the joints of
alembic with made of the white ofeggs and filings well Juixefi
together.-Libro Accart. p. .
W EIDENFELD.-This Receipt in the Treatise .of the philoso-
phical.adrop (which is in the sixth volume ofTheat. Chern. antl
insclibed to an anonymous disdpfe•of the great Guido de monte,.
but diiiers not from the beoks of Ripley, namely, the preSEnl
cle Accurtationibus, and the Clavis aurere portre, the greatest
part of wliich is as£ribed to the famous Dunstan, Archbishop
of Canterbury) i8 altogether the same as to the sense,
though these words ran better in the 'fl·anslation, thus
Now take three pounds of the aforesaid gum, put it into a
distilfatory able to hold about two measures, and putting oil
an alembic, lute the joints with luting made ,of ale, the white
of an egg, and wheat-llour, page 552. Volume 6. Theat. Chern..
Which is confirmed with the or receipt of the Clavi&
8urereportre, where thus: Put three pounds oftliis milk (thickened
or gummed) into a glass, page 257, Clav.is auree portre; ami
distil i» a sand furnace, and let the sand be the thickness of tw•
:lingers underthe vessel, EUld so :round abOut to the
of the vessel,. or till the matter be co¥ered : put a receiver te.
it, making at first a gentle fire, hut not luting tlie receiver, till
the phlegm .be gone over, and this eontinue, till you
the recei\l.e:r wl1ite as milk ; then increasing the fire
change the receiver, stopping it well, that it may not evaporatet
and so continually augment the fire, and you wiU have an oil
Jnoit red 11s blood, which is airy gold, the menstruum
the philoscphers sol, our·tincture aqua ardens, the bloOd of the.
creen lion, our unctuous humor, which is the last consolation o£
body in this life, the philosophers mercury, aqua
which ili:,:;olve!l gold witll. the preservatiou of its species, aad it
o1git1zed by Coogle
Ripley. 315
•
fratb a great many other names. And when first the white fumE'S
.appear, continueyour fire twelve hmus, in which space .if the
be strong, will all tb.e oil be distilled, :which keep well stopped ,to
· llrevent respiring.
111. Take of ·or mbifiecl, or the
is, mineral aatiroony, prepared, what please.
yet with this consideratiqn, that you must have so many -
quarts
of as you have poutuls of aforesaid calcine<}
lead ; .to this vinegar pour the aforesaid lead in a large •
vessel weU glazed, .t\l€
n for the space of three days stir· the
Jllatter strongl,y with a wooden _spatula six or seven times a
.day, cover it well from dust, .and let .it not be put to the fire by
during all .this time, ·after which !ieparate all that is
and _
cristnlline by a filter into another vessel, then put it
into a skillet to a gentle fire, that all
water may cvapm·ate, ti,ll a very thick oil is in the bottom
;Of the vessel_
, .which suffer to .cool; being done, ·the
matter will become lilce gum, so as to be cut with a knife,
hereofpat four pounds jnto a gla£s cucurhi:t with an
,the joint being well luted :with a paste made of the scales of
jron, flour, .and the whites of eggs well beaten together :-put
,the vessel in a furnace of and not in ru;}les, nnd let the
vessel be buried in the sand -evqn to the middle of it, and let·
.the sand be two finger& undC'I' the bottom of the vessel
then put a. recei:rer to it, but not luted, till you have drawn out
all the phlegmatic water with a most gentle .fire, which wa..
tcr tlll'ow away. When y011 see a white fume appear, then lute
wJ1ich must be tw-o foot'long ; which being draWJl
j(}ltlt, strengthen the fire as much as y_
ou can, and contin1,1e it till
.)'OU have distilled all that can be extracted in twelve hours,
so will yo1.1 have the blood of the red lion, most red a•
blood, which is· our mercury, and our tincture now
to be poured upon its ferment, that is, upon the calxes of most
puregold, &c. But if yo1.1 woHld use jt for the white work, yoq.
:must distil your mercury three times with a slow fire, always
'"eserving the fEces apart in every distillation, and then will yo11
have your mercury most white as milk. And vir..
gin's milk, whitened menstruum, and our argent vive philosophi.r
cally ClUJ.berated; with which by make an oil out of
the calxes of luna, and procet!d in.all as you did . with
the red mercury upon the caQc.es of gold, and. you will have a
white elixir, which any metal into perfect luna_
.-
l3ut the golden ojl ought to be perfected and tempered, and
\Vell united with artificial babom, by the way of circulation,
till out of them is made a most and resplendent golden
which is the true aurum potabile, and elixir of lite,
JllOre precious for mens' bodies, than any other .of the
Alchimia, p. SOS.
o1git1zed by Coogle
316 .4/chemir.ttl Treatises.
IV. Take the sl1arpest juice of grapes, and being distilled,
dissolve into a clear cristalline water, the body being well
calcined to a redness, which is by the philosophers called se-
ricon ; of which make a gum, "'hich is like allum in taste,
and is by Raymond called azoqueau vitriol. Out of this gum
with a slow fire is drawn first a weak water, which hath in its
taste no sharpness, no more than apring-water ;-and when a
white fume begins to appear, then change the and
lute strongly, that it may no way expire ; and so you will nave
your aqua aqua vitre, and a · resolvative· menstruum,
which before was resolvable. This is the potential vapour;
able to dissolve, putrify, 'and also purify bodies', divide the
ments, and by its attractive virtue exalt its own earth into a
wonderful salt ; a(ld they that there is any other water,
besides this which we speak of, ·are mistaken in this work :
water hat!• a most sharp taste, and partly also a stinking smell,
and therefore is called stinking·menstruum ; and it beirig a very
airy water, it therefore ought to he put upon its calxes in
less than an hour after it is distilleq or rectified ;,-but when it
is poured upon the aforesaid calxes, it begins to boil up, and
then if the vessel be welt stopped, it will ·not leave
though no fire be administered to it fro?l till it bt;l
dried up in the calx ;-wherefore you· must apply no greater
quantity of it than scarce to cover the calxes ;-then proceed to
the full completing of it, as in the work Qf the compounded
water. And when the elixir is reduced to a purple calour, let
it be dissolved in the aame menstruum, being first into
a thin oil,· upon which fix the spirit of our by
lntion, and then l1ath it the power of converting all bodies
into most pure gold, ·and' to heal all infirmities ·boay;
more than all the·potions of Hippocrates and Galen, for is
the true aumm 'potabile, and no «'ther, which is
gold turned about by the wheel of &c.-:
Medulla Ph1l. Chern. p. 170. ·. · ' ·
V. Take of sei"icon or antimony thirty pounds, out of which
you will have twenty pounds or thereabouts of gum, if the
vinegar be good ;.:_dissolve eHch pound· of that scricon in
two measures (a gallon) 'of vim•gar twic:!e and having
stood a little while in digestion, ·stir the matter often every day,
the oftener the better, with a ·stick, filter the liquor three
times, throw away the freceS, to away as superfluous,
being no ingredient to the magistery' for it is the damned earth :
·Then evaporll.te the filtered liquors in balneo with a
temperate heat, and our sericon will be coagulated into a green
gum, called our green lion, d1)' that gum well, yet with care,
lest you burn the flowers, ·or destroy the greens of it ;-then
take the said gum, put it in a strong glass retort well luted;
with a mo4erate distil a weak water to be cast away :...J
. ' ; .
Ripley. !IT
But when first you perceive a white fume put to it a.
glass receiver large, lind of sufficient capacity, whose mouth ia
exactly joined to the neck of the retort, which must be very
well luted, lo-t any of thefume be lost or evaporate out of the
receiver ;-then increa:.e the fire by degrees, .till a red fume
ascmc.Js, and continue a stronger fire, till bloody drops come, or
no n.orc· fume n.pp£ars ;-then abate the by degrees, and
all bt-ing col<l, take away the receiver, ·and forthwith stop it,
that the spirits may not exhale, because this liquor is called
our blt$S<·d liquor, •to be kept in a glass vessel very close
peel ;-tlu•n examine the neck of the retort, where you will
find a white and hard ice, in the form of a congealed vapour,
or mercury sublimate, which gather carefully, and keep, be-
cause it contains great secrets, of which lower :-then take the
fwces out of the· retort, being black as soot, which are called
our c.Jragon, whereof calcine one pound, or more, .ifyou please,
in a potters, glS$6- makers, or philosophical furnace, into a
white snowy calx, which keep by itself, it being calJed
the basis and of the work, Mars, our white fixed
earth, or philo&ophers iron. Now take the residue of the.
fwces, or black dragon, and sift it on a ma!ble, or any other
ftonf', and nt oqe 'of the ends light it with a live coal, and in.
the space of half'nn bpur the fire will run over all the freces,
which it \\·ill calcine into ·a 've11, glorious citrine colour ; these
citrinc freces dissolve with distllleu vinegar, after the aforesaid
manner, filter also three times as before, then e}·aporate the dis..
solution a gum, qisdl the menstruum, is now call:..
ed sanguis or dragon's. blood, 'and repeat tp.is work in
all things as before, till you have reduced an, or the greater part
of the freces into our natural blessed liquor, all l"hich li-
quors pour to the first liquor or menstruum, called the blood of
the green lion ;-the liquor being thus putrity it in a
for space offuurteen o?ys ; .then proc{':d 'tp the
separation of the eieme,1ts, 111 tlus blessed you
have now all the fire of the stone, hi<1den before in the
which secret has bften hitherto wonderfully close by tl1e
philosophers Now take all the menstruum being putrificd, put
it in a venice glnss of a fit size, put nn alembic to it, an.d lute
with linen rags dipped · in the white of eggs ; the ·receiver
ioust be very spacious, to keep in the respiriiJg spirit, and with
a temperate heat separate the element" one f!·om another, and
.of air, which is {ardent c?ntninipg
o!l at the first the first ?c.-:
mg (hstilled, rectify It m another vessel fit for it, that Is, dJstJl
5even times, till it burns a linen· cloth, being dipped in 'it and
kindled; then is it called our rectified aqua nrdens, which kcer.
very well stopped, for otherwise the most subtile spirit of it will
vanish away. In the rectifications of the aqua ardeps, air
o1git1zed by Coogle
Alchemical T1·eatises.
Wilt in the form of a white oil, swimming upou the
aqua arclens, and a citrine oil will remain, which is distilled
with a 'stronger fire: mercury being sublimed, and reduced intq
powder per deliquium, upon i;on pla.tt;S in a cold place,
pour a little of the aqua ardens to the liquor bemg filtered,
it will extract the in the form of a green oil swim.,.
ming a-top, which separate and distil by a retort, and there
will a.o;cend first a water, and then a thick. oil, which is the oiJ
of mercury ;-then distil the flood or water of the stone iuto
· another receive.-, the liquor will be whitish, which draw off
balneo with a moderate heat, till there remains in the bottom of
the cuciu·bit a 'thick oily like melted pitch ; keep
tbis water by it,;Eilf in a glass well Take notice, wheq
· llrst the liquor riseth receiver must be put to,
.because that element is wholly distilled. or three
of that black liquid. oil given the spirit of wine, du
,Cure nny to this black and liquid matter. pour
our aqua ·ardens, m1x thetp together, and let the mixture
three hours, then decant, and filter the liquor, ppur Oil
new aqua ardens, arid repeai the operation three times, then dis:.o
t1l in with a gentle heat, and this reiterate thrice,
it wilt co.me under the denomination of the rectified blood
i>f man, which operators search for in the secrets of
rhus have you exalted the two elements, water, and air, tq
tbe virtue of 11o quintessence; keep thi!l blood for occasion.
Now to the black and matter or :earth, pour the floo4
or water of die stone, mix them well together, and distil the
whole, till the earth rem-
ains ·very dry and black, which is the
earth of the stone ; keep the oil with the water for occasion.
Reduce the black earth to a powder, to which pour the
said man's IJJ.ood, digest three hours, then distil in ashes with
tire sufficiently strong, this work three times, and it will
be called the rectified of fire, and so have you the
elements, namely, water, air, and fire, into the virtue of
a quintessence·; then calcine the earth being black and dry, iq.
the. 9f the reverberatory, most calx,
which mt¥- the fiery water, aud distil a strong fire as
fore ;· the remainjng earth calcine again, and distil, and that •
Yen times, or till the whole·substance of the calx be passed
the alembic, then have you the rectified and truly spiritual
water of life, and the four elements, exalted the
ofa.quintesseru:e : this water ' will dissolve bodies, putri(y
and purge them. This is our mercury, our lpnary, but
5oever thinks ofany water besides this, is ignorant an4
foolish, never to etfect&-:-Vade
or Bosom-Book. . ··
o1git1zed by Coogle
,
Ripley hath these following •yings, in his Book named Terra
TE!rrre.llhilosoph. p. 319, where thus: When therefore you have
extracted all the mercury out of the gum, know, that in this
Jncrcury are contained three liquors; whc1·eof the f.irst is a
hurtling nqua vitre, which is extracted -by a most temperate
balnro. This water being kindled, flames immediately, as com-
mon aqua vitre, and is called our attractive mercury, with
which is made a cristalline earth, all metallic calxes
of which I will say no more, because in this operation we
want it not. After that there follows another thick
and white as milk, in a small quantity, which is the sperm o.f
our stone, sought by many men ; for the sperm is the
ginal of men and all living creatures_;·- whereupon we do not
nndeservedly call it our mercury, because it is found in all things
and all places;-for without it no man whatsoever lives, and
therefore it is said to be in every thing. This liquor, which
now you ought to esteem most dear, is that mercury, which
we call vegetable, mineral, and animal, our argent vive, and
virgin's milk, and our permanent water. ."\Vitll; this mercurial
''ater we wash away the original sin, and pollution of our
earth, till it becomes white, as gun1, soon flowing ;-but after
the distilllltion of this aforesaid water, will appear an oil by a
strong fire ; with thiil oil we take a red gum, which is our
tincture, and our sulphur vive' which is otherwise crilh!(f the
soul of saturn, and living gold, our precious tincture, and our
most beloved gold, of which never man spoke so plainly;, God
rorgive me therefore, if I have any way offended him, being con•
. strained to gratify your will. •
WEIDENFELD.-Some great mystery ofart is here discovered
by Ripley, for the revealing of which he fears the displeasure ot"
not only the adepts, but ofGod himself. Lully, and others, have
indeed plainly enough declared to their disciples, though perhaps
it may not appear to us being less instructed in the matter, what
our green lion is, what common.mercury more common to us thaa
.common argent vive, what the azoquean vitriol is, and the men-
struum made thereof; but Ripley affirms that no man ever spoke
so plainly of the present secret. The adepts have indeed in their
practice described the use of philosophical wine without any veil
ofphilosophy; and amongst them RayJUond and Arnold, with
some others, have attained to the knowledge of the same, but
(to use Ripley's expression in Medulla) how it might be ob..
tained they said not. 'Vherefore they being silent, Ripley the
first, and indeed· the only man of all, ·declares to us, that the
key of all the more secrel chemy lies in the milk and blood of
the green lion, that is, that the stinking menstruum (or the pa.rts
of it, mercury and sulphur, virgin's milk, and the lion's blood.
white and red mercury) being fourtec(n days digested gently,
is t'be white and red wine Lully1 and other aaepts. Nor wa&
D1g1tized by Coogle
he satisfted 1n dedaring this freely to tis, llttt ndtls strength
and light to his word&, in making a vegetable menstruum the
:rectified aqua vite by Lullr iu Pote11tate Divitiarum,
and by llSln Numb. S1.) of the said stlnldng and cort·osive llh!ll-
atruum, by which one oqly example he Wt\6 pleased to tend1 Ul>,
that all vegetable menstruums may be made df the sa:id stinking
menstruum. Lttlly's rectified aqua is made hy divers coho-
bntionsupon its own caput morhiurri. We nuiy ifweplca&e pro-
ceed by another way or method! distil the menstruum
being fourteen days digested, and first will ascend tlJC uqua ar-
dens, then the phlegm, and in the bottom will remuin a matter
thick as melted pitch, which are the constitutive principles of all
YejCtable
Further of the Philosophers JJ!trcur!J.
. There ie a certain subtile fume, which does spring forth
from proper vein.s,. and spread itllelf
the which thu,l fume 1f1t be wisely gathered together ngan>, and
sprinkled upon ita proper veins or matrix, it will make not
only a certain fixation, of which thin fume, in a sfwrt sp"ace
:made the true elixir, but also cleanses tlle i'mpure metals or
alchemic body. , , .
This alchemic body is called leprous gold, wherein gold and
silver, are in essence and •power, but not' in sight or appear-
ance ; in its profundity or depth, it is airous or spiritual gold,
-hich none can obtain, uniCII& the same body be first made clean
and pure. The which impute body after mundification, is &
thousand better than are the bodies of common sol and
luna, decocted by natural heat.
The first matter of this unclean .alchemical body, is a
•iscous water, which is thickened in the bowels of the eartf1.
And therefore of this impure body is made the great elixir of
the red and whose name is adrop, or the pbilowphers
lead. From the which Raymond commands an ail to be
drawn ; from the lead of the philosophers, saith he, Jet there
be an oil drawn of a golden colour ; if you can separate this oil
from its phlegm, which is ita waterishnesa, and wisely search out
the secret thereof, you may in the space of thirty days perform
the work of the philosophers stone. This oil does not only
:make the medicine penetrable, being amicable and conjoinable
·to aU bodies or corporeal thing8, but it is also the hidden or
· &ecret fire of nature; which does so augment the excellencies
of those bodies to whom it is so joined, that it makes tl1cm to
exceed in proportions ofgoodness and .pur!ty. So much
as d<M!s appertain to the work which Is onfy tor the
o1git1zed by Coogle
,, Ripley.
rflixir of is no.; suffici(;lll'tly which lf
l'ightly understand, you '\y-ill find no gr«:a.t is requ.ire<l
to the performance of.this operlt(;ipg,.
And this thin nud subtil oil, into its proper
.scaled .tq>, to pptqty ,in the fire of U,te
lJeing moist, it PE!Comes as black_as liquid pitch. fire ma_.Y.
then ..hav;C _
it11 the .'9ody, to corrupt.it, the same ;bod.Y
\;Jcforc opened. it first )ike melted pitch,
.because the heat _wqrking ir1 this bqdy, .4oes first .beget a
is the first ,¥.gp ; l!nd
•lfmce t,he corr.t.Jption ()f one thing is .tiRe of anotheq
therefQre of .the body con:upted; is genez:ated a,body
Jvhich •:is apt, declinable, and appliciable unto
ferment you plcMC .to apply itto. ,the ferment
be with ,the .and whole
af.our stone or elixir mu!it partajke ,gl" ,the .natur,e of
q.uiptessQnce, other.wise it \\\ill be of no eflect. , .
, .be.twecn the said 1!\gn .of.Qla.c.kn• and perfect
1fhich will follow t,he a
and as many 7.'jlfia,b.le 1.(0\oUrs amer;wards as fbe of
I,Ilap is able ,to :C<>+tCe\,\'e. '\Yh@ shall
Ito . appear Ukc ,the qf fi.Se., :thf!ll you know
Sumincr. a): _
which .A11tumn or Hanest
wii) happily follow with ripe fruit, whi<;h is in the long looked-for
; this .i11 jlftet" .pale; ..an.d citrine colour. Fi_
rst
sun dces J/.8 ,quf!l course, its
r1dianal heigl;lt and glory, tlv:oqgh ia solutiou
into .an .iw.pttrfect pale, J:olour, &hini;i!
parts of the whicJi'is somewhat of a :yellowiah 4,u¢
-colour; thence it .gpes the P81.U Qf .th•
earth, bei.
I;lg .Qfa -nr.iable. Qf flo dark,
alterable, · 'jt ascends up to
par,ts, shining wi!P .a chrystalline,
lJJce, and J,.aatJy, be his fiery c}lajot
,h.is .Up again w·his
anl1gJory, there (o tq.Je
S,Plcndor, and highest CYen jp. highest,
pure, and imperial reilness. · · -
When.dll! sjmpJe .all the \l9P.y, ill
its vesael.duly sealecf, is by the fire thus'dispoeed, there
mOI'C than one simple thing, to be
nerated of sulphp)." and ,uercury m the of the earth ?-
.Thus it is C'lident, Jhat'Oijr is ·e18e b'tt 5ol apd l!lJla,
and mer-any ; ·male aQ.'4 female ; ·1te11t and cold. And
therefore, to be more short, wbep all parts of our stone,
iu-e thus gathered togetlier, it appears plainly enough, is
our aulphur, our alchemic body, our
eur dJS801Vent, our lion. And what our wh1te
,.... . . . lt r . , .
D1g1tized by Coogle
.AlcT1tmical Trtati&ts.
our two our fires, and our egg, in which is both the
,-hiteness and the redness. As also what is man's .blood, out.
aque vitre, our burning water, and what are many other thit1gR,
which in this.our art are metaphorically, or figuratively named
to deceive the foolish and unwary. ·
Also there is a similitude of a Trinity shining in tlJC bodj·,
soul, and spirit. The body is the «ubstnnce of the stone. The
soul is the ft!rment which cannot be hnd, bot fr·om the most
feet body; and the spirit is that which mischh up the natures
&om dt!ath and corruption to life, perfection and glory. ·
· In sulphur, there is an earthiness for the body; ii1 mercury,
there is an rerialness for the and in·them both a naturul
unctuosity for the soul or ferment; all which· !Ire ' inseparably
united in their least part1i for even .·thi!l· body
the stone is formed, and without it; it cannot be It is
peculiar property of sol and luna, wtiieh pt'Operty ap}>er7
tains to the stone ··itself, ·to give the form of gold and silver.-:
And therefore the elixir; whether it be "'bite or tc-d, may
inlinitely augmented with the fermental if you d6· cast tl1e
.-arne upon mercury, it shall tra'nsmute it the ·elixit:, whicli
elixir be .cast afterwards upon the .tlodiee....:;
Moreover· the said white elixir is augmented with mercurial
ter, and the red elixir with the mercufial oil ; the which
Yiz, the mercurial water arid merqrrial oil,.can be had of
mercury dissolved of itself. . . . i . . : .. :. v • • .< . . : • r
. See whaphe Scriprure aaith ; tie- the stone, watel;
ftowed out', and he brought fOrth oil <
out· of the ftinty
We .may note the whole compositionI of.the elixir in. four
•erses following. " He forth HeaVet'rs as" curtain.
The water stootf above t.he mount'aim/' ' ' This is tbd water wlticfi
does rover our matter, performs the . dissolution: tpet:eot;
causing a cloudy ascension:· · " ·That does'\\>alk th'e wings of
fhe :'fhis ·figurb forth the· sublimation ofour stone•
.,., Who makes hi8 ·angels spirits, arid :'his a c,f
fire." · 'By this is shadowed forth the rectifieatioo, separation,'
and disposition of 'tlte elements'. "" Who has rounded the.
earth basis ;, so fixed,- that ·it shall not' be; fpt'
ever/' ··Under which is·deseJiibed· fixation of the:
and the ofthe stane.-Medu/fa' fkili:i$P1!llit!
dedicated to,George Nevill, f!f Yo/1:' ·) ·.
·'
o1git1zed by Coogle
'(
CHRISTOPHER; OF PARIS.
Take the philoso1.;y1ers first matter, called chaos
blc mercury, the .philosophers wine) distil its spirit
and watery element (phlegm) in . its conv«;nient . vessel, .
we shall teach in its proper place, . till. body rema.in in,
t,he bottom like melted which by two dist'illatiqna
"·ith its water1 element, ·then pour its spirit ,to it, four
above it, mixmg tlie matter well, till it be well llnd set
vessel to dbtil in balneo with an easy heat;. then p'ut it intQ
putrcfitctlon six days in a convenient distil:in
(the animated spirit) then take spirit, (ardens) arid that
being poured to it, put it ngaiu into jmtrefaction .six. dny.s,
so repeat this mngisiery, tilt you see that'the spii-it has imbibe
and extracted the soul out of the body, . an infallible o
which will be, when you see. its earth hard and dry; -for
:may you .he Msured, that the body is 'for ita health-sake
wh1ch you may vivifY and incortl,lptible, and it Will . no
more fear death, nor corruptiOJ;I in this world. Now take
aforesaid body,. first w:igh it, then it ve,ss14
and pour to 1t fin e1ghth part ot 1ts spmt spmt)
which extracted 1ts soul, then put your VCIISel 1n a ·fire ·of di-
gestion, (which we shall speak of afterwards) and' coiuinue the
pre till you see that the earth imbibt:d then
ppen .your veSl;iel, put on au aletHbic, and that
which.· will the taste of hot water :.. now
your.matter for a second time with a part of 'the
,said spirit, which contai1;1s the s<ml,. auJ in
jzing of the aforesaid mngiHtt:ry: Now for a ·third time im:.
bibe,with a si_xth a fourth tinie with a fHih p_art,
for a.. time mibibe_v.:lth _and n:ultlply
the "'elght of the.. sp1r1t, but conpnue ltJO, OJ.>!\'l:nmg
the matte1;, wl\ich its
ayd iii united with its sPUl,, no.w
,tJ,e -clfores_aid.earth, atid put it, in the
of tl1e. being · and
}Xl'ka·ihe,,pure part froin the impure, and .so. will ydu
ha:ve our ,vbkh is clear 'and shiQiog as ... dia.mfnd.
Digitized by Google
Alclunlical T'l'eatises.
This i'1t that whic& the pftilbsoprrers do by diTcrs.
call the tint- vegetable matter, sal armoniae, our mercut-y,.
Olll' sulphur of nature, whereas notwitltstanding it is one altd tbe
same thing. Take the other simple spirit, which you first eXJ
tracted out 1.our clrnos• thltl which not. its•
sool, and mai:e-it'mote pilre and' subtile by tfie way fol'lowtng
Take of the vegetable hrst matter (sal armoniac) which foll!
made before, one pound, and put it in a convenient vcsst' in -
balneo, till the matter dissolve itself per deliquium, then put-
ting to an alembic, distil the- superfluous water, tbe3 pour ou,
three pounds of the aforesaid simple spirit (ardf,!ns) and the
vessel being conveniently stopped, ns will be manitested below,- -
put it into putrefaction for oile natural day, ati:er the maruter
following :'-get JOli' a braSS' v_easel, about span and' a
bi'Oild';·atnd three spans lin!I' a halt long, whtt!h towards- the ort_,
rriust'have a copper bottolh pferced wjth marly holes, the .
cttver whereof, wltreh ia to' go ·intb _
the 'ri!sser, and stop it welt,
mdst have one or tWO' hales; but the glass vessels; which you
would pat to that cdppet vessel, oughr to: he conveniently co;.
vcred : in the lower part of th'Ose copper' vt>sscls of ptitrefaction
must be common· water, thO!!e capper vessels put 11pon a fur•
Jiace, making ft moderate fire und'er, by the strcngtli of which
tbe 'fume or vaptilir of the will and treat the ves•
sels', in whith your matter is ; the wHole work t1four supreme
.ma!?istery will_ be matured aria prepared· by this metluxl ; theri
dfstd conv-enfuntlf in a!ibes with a· libt, scarce unlike to the
heat of tile san, titt·yoti 'have> drav;n aU the juice from it'; then
mllt!er by pouring to it of the spi:..
:f'lt three Ih respect of the _mattet, winch remnnted m the
\'clsel,. aftet·the af<Jresaid walr abstril<!ted from it ; repeat
the mbgilitety-· a fburth time,. proce€
!ding and obse"ing all tbinglf
exactly ·as above ;.;....so win yoll have the spfrit of your chaos,
\tliieh ir bt the plulosbphets called fire dcpttrated, reduced
from pow-er inro attfun wi'tli t11e virtue ofthe vegetable matter.-
Take therefOre a vl!ssel, str<>ng, able to tire mea-•
11\lte of a common urn,·pure and long,_ whose Ii'ecl: muSt
«tong, and two spans and a half tong, whose eover mu$t'be ano-
glilss, called antenotothun, wir:h a neck. turned downward,
the fourth part of &' cotninon utn, to be pnt into
·me aforesaid vl!sseL lrtto this eii'<:nlating vt!ssel' put four
podnds, arid no·mor'e; orthe deplltaced spirit, w:Mcb'yon brought
fi-om po\fer'to attion, by virtue _of tile vegetable matter, as I
taught _
yt.u bel>re ; drcufa(e m'balue<>; .or <tung; dle lipa'te of
_
cixty days, and conversion isli'lade of the spirit'
frotn power to by the .fine vegetable_ matter, tllen
you·•ill thereby kno-w, that in tlie'bottozn· of the vessel w'ill-1*-
·a sediment, like the urine of*' sound man;· then will you ·aee•
:fiuintessen'ce bl'ighter and clearer than a diamond, ex""
.... . ... \
o1git1zed by Coogle
C/n·isloplitf'.
the stlil's 1n.spleru1our, so as to be doubted, whether it lMr
tontaincd in the or not ; which you must dexterously sepa-·
from its sediment, o,nd xeep in a close stopped in •
t:old place. This is that virtue which the envious have bidden,.
and obscured by innumerable metaphors, calling it spiritus vivus,
aqua argenti vivi, aqua vitre, aqua celestis, aqua Dianre, anima
menstrui vcgctabilis, .fumus, . ventus,. opr henveo, menstrual
blood, urine sublimctl, mclll!truwn, our wateJ. of sulpluar1 OIJii.
hleiised stone, giving it otlwr whicm we Jlieuiior.
1iot here, but have by expel"ience seen. and known .them to be.; ·
orii:',nnd the same tl1ing.-Theat. <;;hem. p. 271, vat. 6.
great my5tery and . treasua·e which we . lea'elr.
you is,. how you ought to make . B (the crelestial . aod
deti't spirit} acute, which we sig.nity by wherefore :give: ear, .
toi; f know not how I ought to prvpound tlti» -doctrine, lest.thi&"
secret should be-prostituted to aU :Foc aU U.e philosOphers
that ever have been, have absconde_
d thi.s seeret. 'I.IAder .diyers•
figures, becalllSe without all doubt this i$ the · wllich is..
the princi£al, o•· one of the princip!ll keys; of thia ·adinirable,
ti'CiencP.. fhls I would hAve ;rou certainly bel.lcve, that B hath:
no solutive nature but only potentially ;. fos ;r B were:·
not nc.uateu by the way and means manifested $0 you, i.i would
bavc no power ofdissolving. Some made it aeute wiU.
which way is good enough ·;. 119me witb some with einna-i
bar : some with these two, and some with all dtree. Some
their earth, which d.iipleaseth me, because tbis way thick,
unctuosity and pondel"'sity was introduced ; some have
vegetables, as herbs, roots, flowers, and seed• known to you,_
which have powerful mer<:uries in them ; for this reasoa it
that they whicll handled it this way, ,augmented rather its vega-..
table form, than made it solative ; sQme used Bowen united fozt
•cuition, whi'lh is the principal and of our iufiention, whicD
is found in tJf'e alphabetum apertoriale ; some Dot bowing tho
true way ofaeuating this B,.spent muchtime in preparing divenr · ·
waters, before they could put.any body into B, as happened to u•
in the beginning, seeking that practice, which is now manifested!
to you. The p1y_stcry of this dissolutive J?&rt is. and
tedious ; but liaVIng made B .ac11te by thts method, which we
now manifest concerning t4e &olution of bodies, it is perfected
without trouble in a little time. , I oonfess, wheJa I wae w.ith 1011.
at time made the
we.d1d not understand }4yu;umd. Lully Jn :thit.diuolultve puH
hut .having read him retuPling:to our-studies, PftC"
tising, praying, and fasting, a ·of mind·c.un•
to 'llS :. this way therefore will! under the seal·ofsileac:e.
vol. 6, TheJt Chem. . _, ,
D1g1tized by Coogle
.
. 1. In the name of God; Arr1en•.· my dear sour t1t,it
Wore the creation of the world, the spirit of the Lord tested
apoo tbe waters. Afterwards nll things were created fi·ont li"UtCI',
this water .did God divide when he commanded part of the watc>r'
to become dry, which he ealled land ; tltc other part not con.:.
..erted to land, called he wnter still ; which he preiierYed in the .
llllme estate_it Waf at first, that it might be senireable to the dry
Jand in watering it, &c. For the earth cannot·or will not yidtl
its frttits, wless moistened by the waters of its rivers. ·
2. Now in this discourse of mine, will I manifest to tltce the'
Jlatnral condition of the stone of philosophers, appareled with a
triple garment, evert this stone of riches and charity, the stone
of relief from languishment. In which is contained every secret;
being called a divine mystery and gift of God, than which there·
is nothing in this world more sublime. Therefore diligently ob•
serve wh:it I say1 'Viz. That 'tis appareled with a triple
that is to say, witb a body, soul and spirit. Now that
body may be revived, gfve it its soul, and it will live. Sclwl.
GoOd master, I cannot understand your expressions, being too
Gbscure for me to comprehend-for whereas at first you told
- me of but one stone, now you tell me there is three, Tiz. a cor-
poreal, animal and spiritual. Now if there is but one stone,
how -can there be three? Mast. 0 my son, remove that cloud
ef ignorance from you, and understand the truth--you are to
tmderstand that when I aaid there was but one stone, I mcaned,
'lilat there is·but one thing of which it is made : when thiii ·
'body is reduced int<' its first matter, viz. into .a 'water full of
waves, then 'tis called one tiling, and a root, from
which infinite boaghs are produced. It is also called 11 stone,
lnown .to the priecipal philosophers who have it; therefore from
6u stOne, viz. white and red earth, its soul is by
paration aUd is, subtiliation. Sckol. ·
iublimation, whtch llf subti'liatton, absolutely 10 this
work.?. :Mitlt... KoO'W my son, that our subhmatton 1s not cpm-
81C11f. suWhiuatWrr4 but for our lit no
•eher than Nbiiliaiidnl, after such that the soperfluitics
e£ our tt:Ooe in ate! teriloved, separatibg the nbn.:.
lxed parts, an• _ttfem· ftrlr!e and smoak &om
But t:ht. maat be dbilet with wtsdom. He then thai
right1y sublimes subtilizes, and so work is ended. ·· r
8. Sclzol. But Sir, I have often beard you sny, that the ele.
ments must be separated per triiXhlm separationis, after the man.
D1g1tized by Coogle
..
aer ofsrparation. Know my soli, tbl,sis done ba
this our sublimadon, for it perfectly separates the elements,
comi1Jg then a certain wbite stone of elements, viz. of
Water that is Ptercury, and ofa know that
is earth, is the root and true ferment, and is called the nurae of
the clements. Aer, that is the soul, pepetrating. The spi-
that is met:cpry, is 'portans. so you may reckon OUf
l\.·hich is elements,.
l3ut that you may better understand me, our fixes spirit;
is jts ferment the mercury; air, that is 1ta soul, penetrate1,.
lts spirit, is mercqry, cleanses and washes it from impu"
1·ity, g. When water heaven upon earth, then thf
lllutter i:o change wllich. from the deeoctiop of its
(that is, its fire} that water, (that is, its spirit) is up, and SQ
it becomes white earth. Tb.us it. is in our ·work. But there Pl"4'
very my. sop, that. qndersU!rid. that subtilation;
fore they lab9m- in vain wh.o understand it not. . ·. .
! 4. Schol. Tell me, most lellfned Sir, can this work be done
ftom beginn'irig to the end, on one furnace, and in orie
lrJ,Iast. As fofthat,.. son, t}le quantity of mat•
tcr you have ·at work; if you hitve much tn:i.tter, thep. it cannot
be contained in one vesst>l, but maJ1y. If you do a mean
tity,.orip willsuffice for our sublimation, j. e. spbtiliation,
tnceratio!l, solution, white 11nd
t.mcturc. _&;hol.} a httle cheered w1th what
saul t(t Jl,ic, havmg f<?t ti"!e sougl1t after. ....
hevet made truu.-Bu,, good S1r, your kmt.lness emboldel'ls mt
to dt;sire the . I of ·conjoining ·the again; fQr l
J'nust needs I neither understand aright scparatio.t;l OJj
ronjunction. • Mast.')'will V.f!TY willingly· answer you, .therewr•
1 say, :After.you hqve t,hct
eplnt},Lhd, soul from ItS bodY., the
then the f!iqn to,its thti
jnanner ;'of Unio{l, ·ahd. h?dy will
will proceed.to
and.
· 1mb1be 1ts water .ong, tlll1ts or
and has up its water;.:tllelil command
J.ts 'earth to · 'Sdwl. Th.anl{s, good Sir, I desire further
to know, presently after tl!at earth, which yqu call ibt .
has flqwed it. will tinge ? . Mast, I'll satisfy
your desire, ·confluctio1;1 which is called the quintes-..
aence is a bod)', ·whifh' not the motions of the
elements, as other · The reason is, because.
body of the is ·ca\led the ·super-addition, as being
'xtracte(i from them. If you would arrive to the perfection oi
the elixir, so that it be of such great power as to transub-:
stantiate evf;ry thing conj<»:ne4 to i'a self,. you must by uo
. • . .... I j, . . '
D1g1tized by Coogle
..
MS A,lchemi.cal Treatise&.
tto so, bY repeating .is
JJer ctf our solution. · ; · · · ·
· . 5. After our sto,ne i11 by virtue of our fire mo:;t pnrft
:and whi!e, and .com·crt it a·
Jlb'!der.tn one most br1ght .cre;-
vt.ncgar. Then .!s tt mto a most pf.y:;tcal,
1lnd (u It were} MURta'n water.. 11ten nficr our stone ts
-diM>olved, distil ,aecording to· mir '\\!ay of distillation; a.nd coagu.:.
late in ·the fire "Y.• .fteat. And 'lastly, ;lf'tcr eongulatimi,
tlS it aught, .as I have often told you; and know that itJ
the 'first of the' stone, one partcom·htS an
)>ai"¥ \&to pure gold. Ariel this is our ,;olution, the secret of
tteqj;ets. &lwl; L9ving how .arc the wo1-ks
'e>f GodJ And how gracious io; 'he . 'bt:!stow sucn gifts on JiiJ
'children 1' me, I cannot but ghe you etcrilal tlmnks, · whq
am by your irtStn.Jction brought to thc·,end o'f,thd work. I hn1·r
110 peed now any 1n0re to he sad, fdJ; m,Y heart is replenished witli
·all jhy. I niiist needs confess how very much ,they err. who
liOl this \\·ay to work; for BOllU) on salts, aloms, borax, }lwf.
lirine, ·sheeps blood, on on spirits extracted froni
aufipigmcnt, honCj;, fat, &c. nor Call
1 :bttt· pity .them! knowing tnnt I myscJf once worked on t?em'r
Bnt now what you have been to say, vtz.-
"ntat the Stope ·is'extracted alone from the f#':the philo.:
Arlphers, whidb.mercucy·ois pl.ly_sical not' vulgar,·as ihrit'is whicll
• ,is dug out of the earth; But our' mercury contains ·a body,
i.nd worthy ha,·e taught m,-_fit 1
begi_nninlf
M tfns .discenrse. Let me mtreat you tlten .to sat1.sty )n one
... b1 I .have
.that J.S, IVI.z. 'Witethc:r of
,&J)e ts not to be aga1.n from tl1e very be:
f'\lnJDg, an.d l>e 10 loag tedious a time about as at first_.
· or Malt. I will answer ·you to ;!his, two )\·nys, th.eologi-
tnlly and physically. Fint, lr;t" Genesis, Chap. ,fJj
tay11 God, Lit 111 man our similitude and image. ilait
be did not tiuirefore i:reate .man alone to increase and .-
No (he di.thio4 ,nor couid hl!,) but to that he created 'a
woman also, retniniRg tJ.tc Seed of generation they might
inu,ltiply, till ofthe In like wanner it is·also it\
Mr ,Or i;ts sulphur, (i. seed,). to
nerate gold to Its Nature, as Luna her seed, (t. e. her.
8ulphur,) to generate '·.suc)l .the philosophers ·
sulphur, which is riot fou'nd upon'tlie 'ea.rth?. unless in thes.e oo.:.'
dies from 1i·hich it is extracted•. tlur then is the' fer.:.
mentation.of this for from 1ts seed to be had J,he fruit.
()fits It measured, and the the.reof is
aJnd so without ceaa10g for ever. ·&fzot. Pra1 S1r, let me know
more fully. · -
o,g,tized by Coogle
'Mast. Very wulingly, my son,. Thou shalt then maltiply the
•tone after its Q1Ultiplication, R. ita weight of the extracted
water, and :well .mix, (de servo) well washed of its repem, and
.tbis withollt,conflu¥ion ; be. 1this comp<»ition, )eat
it confiux then after comt¢xion, place wisely in balneo, (i. e. ia
heat,) ,then dissolve.
.all in .themilky water, which.
water is lac and philoaophorum ;.and .
let this be
.done for the space of one montla, and widl discretion; then yoa
may permit it to elevate towards the heavens, and become vola-
tile. that you see it beautified by an·elevation.
..command it:to.clt'JCetld. eauodl, artd wiU be.a luid
and flowing st9ne,·.(&hoc gradu reaiminis th•
•;vill he l"laea 4llv.hle ·
,serve 9l)e lor present use, the fUler ·Ar bl1t · ·
-of tile atoac fixed &,. and.the •ts>¥
1ty descending:into.the,.euth. Thea the
311d distilled vinegar se.long, mer.cw-x.•
;J&Dd. impeliect .-. qato aol excellirig
..the sort,) so wik thou hl\ve * bua.o.W .and glol)' qf
)his world, and all .will fly &om thee. ':nerefilre, .1'4¥
..on, I beg one thing from thee, viz. That (rom .thJ whole ·
....tha.t ]()ft God; who,hath ·by me, unwonby of th• le..t of his
tit.bia on .
. '
..
.. .
·.
. .
• •. : ,.. · ·· 'r : .
,. ,. ,·, ..
........:..... .. 4t/.# ••
·"
.. s 9 ..
o;9,11zed by Google
ROGER BACON.
R.ot of Ihe wOf'ld.
1. '1'\'e bbditll of things being • ...U im:-
fmm the original of time, and compounded of 'a qu"-:-
of elements er vie. lire, air,_
t!OnJ&llleG by God Almighty· m nnaty. lb foQf
.eJ. emem. is hi4 the secret earth
ter sive carporeity and visibility ; fire and air, die lpirf\
...a Jnvisible wbi.;h·cannt>t be !'!
. other · When theile ·f<lQr ekimehts are
·to exilt irt thty become thing; it i• evi.!;.
dent.·that all things in ooture composed oftht ·flmtfltt;
altered and Ch$nged.' ' · · · · · · ' •· · " ,'
·2. So saith Rhasis, ·-simple
formation iS the Of the elemenil it li nec!J n7.
that the elements be of one kind, alld not to
for otherwile neither action nor passion could· happen:betwee&
them. So aaitb Aristotle, there is po true generation, bUt of
iu So ·be n9t made but
cordmg to their ..':fhe elder or hot bnng
..lorth pears; nor ·can you 'gathet grapes of thorns,· or Bgs of
thistle.;, .thillgs b:ing not forth, their.' what
-.rees With tlienon nature, each tree tts own frwt. "
. s. 9ur.ae.cret therefore is to be only' out df
m wh1ch 1t u. You cannot extract tt out·of stones or sAlt,·or
otber beterogene bodies: 'neither snit nor enters ·into 'our
Jnyatery. But as saith, disguite
. with salts and alums, the places of the elements. rrydu prudentlr
desire to make our dixir, you must extract it tram a minefal
.z:oot. For aa you must obtain the perfection ofthe
&om the seed.• thereof. Sulphur ·and mercury are the
mineral toots, 'and natural principles, upon whi,ch ·nature·herself
act& and worka in the mines and eavems of the eanh, whiCh ant
vilc:oua water; a'nd subtil spirit running t\lfough the
and bQwela ofthe ' Of them is produced a vapow or
cloud, which is the substance and .bodj" df inetaJa united;: ..
and reterberating·upon·its'oWn earth, (as·(h..
ber.lheweth) even till by a· digeitioll tlmnJ8!l
tpaDe ofa tbous&rid the is fixed,
-!--1 o( '-.: h ...__.,l_ ' '
.tone. .w"'c '11"'....... are·- ' ··· · ·· ··· ,· ., ·· .·· ·
,. . I h , .. . ... \ •
o.git•zed by Coogle
·Bacon.
· 4. tn ,.tht ume; · sol, whtch i. :aur tulpQr,
!'educed into mereury by ·menuty1 which is •iscOut:,...
made thick,·and ;nrlxed with. ita proper earth,. by aMnp.--.'-
de(loctlun.apd fti&estioD; ariseth· the Vapour
in nature aDd.substance with that ilL the bowela ofthe eilab.:rw.
This ati:erwards.is turned into 'mOlt:aubtil wllkbit eiW
the soul, .apirit, a!td tincture, ia ....aludl ..-,.,
thia water is returned into the earth,··out ofwhieh·it..,..
and enry way lipread& er is mixed with it,·•:i&t pro-
per WOJDb, itrt>ecnmes1lxed. Thus the wile maadoa ·
art.in wbic:h nature Caliriot..:pe,rfur'm in
the revQlution of. a thoUi&nd years. · ·Yet. it·it
not .we that malaothe inetal. but nature henelf tbat dOe. .
NOJ: dn or can we change one thing intO another ; J»ut it mtr
, nre, that them. · We are no more tbaa 'HJ!VaJliJ
ib; U.etYt'Qrk. Therefore Medu& Turba PhilOsoplbl'lllll. AtitAt
oilute.e.naturally ·contains in-it the whole tincture. .·It
fectlJmade and body ofthe earth; ·)'llt.ofitftK
art, baa no life or power whereay to mpTt U..
. . . . . . . ,: -:·. .. , .•L; .;.
··' 5. ·Chooee then the natural minera1J1 ·to which, ·b)' the.ftdvietl
4 -Jtdd art; for generates: :bodiea ·4f
the vapour&t clouds, or fumes ofsulphur aud mercUI'J; to lfniok
Ml the pbilOtP.phers.agree•. Know therefore·the :t-ribciples qpon
:Whi9h art.,ork-,,, wit, the pripciplet.or
:fOr. be,that knowe not tbe.e thinsa &hall·never attain
.t.cU.qn York.. Geber:u.itb; ae who..... DOt in
the·na&ural·priw:iple., is..far ·from attaining U..
pelieetion .Oftb_
e ,att; being ignor&D;t oftbe mineral.
whidl he work.· Geber al10 fanber ·that oar m
il Oldy let bfi'11Ddelt&tpqd.and learned tlnoUJt)l the we
and ofnatural tbiog&: tbat is,. witT. a wiaciom
ia8· the too&t: and natural matter•. Yet. .
]let my aon, thee a thou knowat .the pri».-
yet therein _
thou c&nst not folfow nature-in all t11i9-:r
-&rein .in fallow Daturt »:'{:·her
ditferences•. .·· . .... . . .. ,., , . , . : .
!' 6•. The Of our atone iuell;d aDii.tWI,, wldcla
--AODle oall, aa it .ill 0..
.of .U. as. etone, and .no stone. ·ud that wi&boat
••hiGih1,aetlirlB Dever a,ny .thing; wbir.h eaten iato; or
.i!l a..aQw.ed·up tlf other and .alao awallow tbom up.
,Thill is siaply vive, which eoDtaina.th. eeHPtial powa-,
,t1VflUJb tlie tiucture ofour elixir or philolioplseJ'Il t&ont.
Tberefore 1aith Rbaais, eucb a thing may he made of.it ..hiaJa
,exceedetb theltigbest perfec;tion ofnature. For it ia. the root
.ofllletalt, hanooiUzee w;,h them, andis the mediumthat exfMi:·
.A,t•Md COPjoiDI the}Uacture.. For it JW.U0wa ap that which,
o;9,t<zed by Google
.Alcltemiml Xtrtati&tl•
• df'iu··:·natare and pi-eduetton; bat· .... •lat ilt
_. :· heing of an iD all itt
;are.. 011r .wne • ·called aataral,·· ctr.IDJIIera.l, :Ye-
iOr it ia .aad ia.the
inocJMr or.womb of aad. by Jkojection -081111erta mto.
••• 1di·-spling.t·or-gtoW& iike. a vegetaele,· aad abounds with
lfelike hi wid& ita.aJMtme, lille iipirit anct
lifctj .-.y'lllieNt··lrid· tlarougb ·all pamelea. .
· ·1i Kolitn..saiti,. t1liptone··is ·ne stolle· tllat··tiaft. ·•
.A»other saitti,. it ia C86& gat,.upctD die. dung..
hill•• a' thmg, _aad i& hidden fi-oiQ the eyes: or ul'MI81'9WK1-
inLibro SrM!Rii.
ear- stone JS. a thmg fe.Jtcteft, but' j,aua JD .duasJiill• (h-e.· ua
JJutMacitibn, or die mattcJl bein' COIHaioag iii iheli.
the four. elemeatt,·over which It,tTiumpQ; •d .ia cera.ibly:. te
be by human bidustry. SOme make aiercuy of litad;-
GUl lead,; 111elt itt siw cw..even ti.., .-•-"·it1ia
i&lc dillolved;. of:wmdi talie U..,e lb..;. ef.U.'Vitaol;.
.nelb. .bora::JG, half Ib•.mist and Con,days. illiigae
•. So_haye mercury, not
' I'Jietaral. ..BUt that 1s not fit-for our worJC, 'U ·the·
ycnrave azay UDdentandi.og, this' caution may.-wfticieDdy. ..
a 8fht and certain
=• ·from the •DCI(!Ja; notbiwg.Ull give t!Mtt whieh
if-has iloe; :
all heteirogta81t,Y;. 8atthat wbaclt a tmpurei·aai &deaD, coa:.·
:is.aot umple,.but oom,,..da.l (to,...
aad to putti?': n.r..
;fbre nbthmg euter lDfO. yosr composttJ6lD,, alien or fG'o
-.;go _
matter,· as all impttri')"i•.; for t.
Ofour stone, that }K'Oeeedeth not fl'OQllt'laeidaer.Ja
'PartW in whole; Ifany en" forfign·thing•be•iKe4 willa
. il.,. iC i& c:onupted, and by that!Ctlft'uption ..-
ilecQmeliJ *asoo.teoo' • I, • " ' • •
·- ...,Tile ci&rine hoGiet,..u .sol,. &c. you Dut caJej..
nation or cementation; ancl it is then.purged ot•pw..i1led if it he
the.Jn¢11orid.· .Tbe .ell c:le8nled,.,beuit·mtothin
ae:i& leaf add .
n.erq thesn.,ter iae; · Thlt
1white1i,u01-,i• contains $WO Aperftuitie.s, wiaidl m111t
· mneveci .from '¥ia:. ita ftedd eartbm.,.·which
.·.·laindeli ;ill•foeioa ;·aDd :D Hcaidity, whioh caUill ita •
• •1 he fll1hiDea ia tbu·remO'Vdd.· P"' ittiD&o a ol\wOocfen
: witla - equl weight.ofpaPe fine aad and ..
1'liu.le ·GiimJ all :withthe pe.taJ, tillnothiitg o(tbe1Pit-
.!ttr appe&rs,• the :trll* salt very_ black. Waab &N.
wid, t.ill the -..Jt diaolwd;. ihidHtb,r
··"""* deeaut,· and ,at _
t<> the DltlCury apqa a IQ1&Cb .o• .a
o1git1zed by Coogle
. .'
.
. ' . .
Aaron: · ..
.W it- as · · It with. fair.
water, wiich J•ork. '10 often repent, till water 'COillcs. 4:1ear
from it, aftd that-;·the melc.ry Jrelhains pure, 'bright im<l clear,·
Jike a Vepiee aBel of • celestial ..colow.. 'l'be"'
- etsain :it Mt!ea·cloth three- e-, four times de*bleti;• iwfi
or. dtree tiines,. into .• glass.vessel, .till n he dry.. 1'he'
.- of tile parts: is:• ·i+,to 1. There 24 in·•
t.Jatural dayF so which add one; and it is 25, tf) witt tile•riiliaffof
the sun. To understand this, is wisdom, as. Geber·
IJar..h· :work;·
.to .overpower tbe arercary
1n COilclllliXdon.. ·tlose bodres come:nearestto·per•
fectio:ll, :which eontlliiD R&OH argeat•vive. He farther saith,· that
.lhe hilt measure, to-'!rit,'
the propollhons Of·the Jngreiliema, :whieb·• clear,. for that qoo.l
.Cthem. all ape one.witll anotller therein, whieb ·
error. .'I'J;.ough .tb.e·matters be: well prepared··and weU
.
witbouUhepl'OpOI'ti()Jas a. quantibet oftlae j•st,.and ac•
ardillfl.•
1• dle i-..011 ,of&ae work, you w411 misi· of tbe ot
the.end, aad lose aU'yow labclur; yoa wi.K nGt illdeed billing 801
thing to perfection. .AJKl this is evident in dae examinatiotr.
wheu there is a·, transmutation of the body, ol' that the bocij'
i•cbaaged, thenJet it be put into the cineritium or teet, and tbcli
it will be con•umed,· OJ'. otherwise remain, accerding u ihe
p.c:ipoit.ioM 8ft JllOre .or. leis than just; ·or ja9t ·as ·they
to be.· right and just, acx:ordi.Rgto thereaSOII ofthat; .
will ·alld ftlllai:a .nrna, :wiaho.t ..,
lose, through all essays and trials ; you can d_
o nothing in thia
.work'Yiitltoovtbe:tnae. knowledge .ofthi's thing, whose t0w1daaon
.,.atter,..pW"ity of aubetance1 and >l'ight reason or. pro.
·.,·. ' . , . .'· ' , I • • • : . . c
; l&. ·E.did·. the phUDsopber, ·ani a man of great under•
.tanding,. adW.s. to work in ncOing hat in sol aDd mercury_;
which joined the wonderful and admirable. pbi..
loeophen u Rbasi• White aDd red both p...,.
eeeci from oae rgot ; no other bodies coming between them.
.Buc .yet:·the gold, wanting mercury, is·hindered .from wormg
.according· to hit power. . Therefore .know &bat DO stone, 11or
pearl, or: foreign thing, but this oor stone, beloDg. to
·Ibis work- You m\llt .tllerek:ire laboar abo11t the dissolatioD f'L
.ihe• aitrine body, .to reduee it ihto its· first For •
:Rbasis .adl, we diSsolve gold, that it may ·be reduced into ibf
.fiat.nature matter .tbat is into mercury. For being brokta
·
ud made one, they have ill thenistlvea the whole tincture botla
]of the .agent and .patjenL Wherefore saith Rhas.is, ·make a
-marriage ·(that iii a conjunction) between the red maJJ, and .bis
.whit.e·wife, and you shall have the-whole
..11•. The samesaith Merlin: if yo11 marry the white womaa
to the l"ed man, chey will 'onjomed aud·embrace oRe :anothev,
o1git1zed by Coogle
J4lchemittGI
-' becomeilapttegnated. By tlae.aelv• they · ftliolvei;
- by tbemielYefJ they bring' rQrth What ahq
,buehy the two &re made bat one bod7- And.·vuly our dih-
is·only1he redueing the.hanl·:bo.d7 iDte a lilpid furm,
UMl ipto. the nature of argent Yive, that the ult.-eu of da•lUI•
pilar may· be dimiru.bed Withoat oar..._thea·be
pOUJKI, and pntly and prudently till it wit 1.- n..
from it. hard and deaie bod7, inaoa tiQana
you.labour in 'Vain. . . , . ·
· lt. .And thel'efore in .tbe ipeculum· it i. Mid;
the firat WiOlk ii the U.e Pody·iat.a'water, that iakl
DD"Cqry• •And this :the philGIOphera e.IWW.OJ.ubOa, whlelt
¥ the foundatioR ofdie "hole act• This diaelutioa uu.ket tlae
1MMiy of an evident liquidity, ancl absolute and this il
done by a grinding, and.a:eoit aad ccmtimled.ati8Mion.a
digeation. Whentere aaitb Rhasis, the. work of. oaf
aene it, .that the matter be put into ita praper y...J...
tiuully decocted and diaeated, untilauclt time a&' it wholly .....
.-de, or aublimea to tlie top. thereo£ :T.hi• ia •-.:lared ill
Speculum Philoeopborum. Tbe pbilcilophera atone ia..osmtrted
from a Yile.thing, into a preeious·substamle; ful'tthe .emen aolue
ia • into the matrix by c;opulaUon:orCCIDjonctiCNI;
wheJeby in }*)Ced.oftime they be made one. AMo, that when
it is compounded ,Oth.the like, ancl1netcoriuted, taen it,...
J>e the bud. . For, tit' ··aoul, tba. lpirit, ·and tM
tilletue may .then be drawn .oot of-:them by ihe help of
pltle fire. . ' ' . . ' ·. . . . .
lS. Therefore aaith Ar.iatotle, tlte trae mauen.orprifteipJ.
.-e not poeaible to be $.ranwrmed or changed by the '11101&
learned in alchemie, except they be teduced into lheir fitat·111at.
let". ·Aad Geber saith, all ought to aade of.mercury only ;
b' when sol is reduced to ita tim or. matter, by D)er.
GU'f, then nature embra<;eth nature. And ••it will b•· euy
to draw out the aabtil and spir,itua.l IUbataacethereGI; -of 111hich
Alkindu •ish, take the things from their- mines,. aad "exact or
,..btiHae them, and reduee •hem to tfteir meta, or 4ir•t mata.t,
whiGh is lumen lumillam. Ami therefme,. o•
the redness with tbe whiteoeas, will come to tbe
•alted glory of .the Mdneta. FOI' Rhasia eaith,: he that know ,
Jww .to oonYIIrt.solillto lana, knGWa how to CIOlt'Mrt luaa into aol.
"
Thel'efor.e uitb Panclophi.Wr, iD T:urPa FhilClS&phorum, he that
pmdently draws the virtue « power from .al, and hi1 llhadow,
shall obtain • great .ecreL Again it is wishout aoJ, .ud
his DO tinpg virtae br power i,& generated. .AlKl
.wboaoev.,. it ia that eh&ll endeav.ota to make a tiJl!i.n« or ·..
louring tincture, 'Wiabout theae and by any other ·meafll,
.he ern, and p11 ..,., flam tl'iltli,·tO hia.on lou ad.
clmimen&. · ·
o;9,11zed by Google
. J4con.
14o. The veste) tor our ,tooe l3ut in wbple
or per(ori'J\ed and ; is • cu;.
is W• tJ1109tll
tvatbua, that Jt DUlJ' aecend descend eaaijy,
with ·a,Jimb• tmOOtP ·e.ery where, ao<l not
high, t1Uld whose bOttom ia round al10 an eg,
to be .,.ch, medicine or matter ma,Y. pot above
a fuurtb pert ofit, 1n¥le o£ttrong double giaae, cl«$1" and tran..
. th•tJO!l ma1 • through it, aU the colours appertaioihj
'?- i" the in which the spirit moving con--
pate or 6y a.way. Let it also be so closecf, that
M nuihJn« pln go Ollt Of it, ·10 nothiQg can enter into it ; u
..Wtb, lute· the vtlllel strongly witli lutum sapientile, that
get jn go a,Jt ofit. Forif the flowers, or matter
subliJn.ll)g, ·lliould out. . or any strange air or matter
·1,our wall be.spoiled lost.. I •
A*l though. t)le phdc>sopber• oftentunes say, that thtt
maater·i1 'to tlpe wt into the vessel,· cloeed up faat, 'let it is
tOrthe1
operatOr, once to pot the aid matter 1n, once
.to clOse it aa(J · keep ic eyen to the very perfection and
·of the If these things be often repeated, the
work. !1'111 be spoiled. ·Therefore keep your veeeel
clOse, encompassed with dew, which demonatl'atel
what kind of are touse, and '!0 v.·ellluted that none or
·o.. or .vanish in
npour or And 111 ... Alcliem•re, at lS wd, let the
. re.pam, shut:.within the vessel .atl'ongly,
such time. that h&!l . up &be ; and
Jet lt be DOIU'iahed with .a heat tiU at become.
white. ·· · · · · ··· · · ·
6.' .ln ¥,a Bre!e}OQuium aaitb,
u there are- three gs lP a natural eg, tfle .hell, the
white, and ]olk, ao h'keW:iae tbere"are three corres-
P.O'uling to ·the tfte·lgl&U· veuel, the white
and the Citrine Lody;· 4nd as of the ·yolk and lffUte,
With a little a bird is made, (the theU being whole, until
the coming forth or hatching·Of the chiCken ;) 'io is in the
work of die philoaopber8 stone; · Of the citrine body, and white
liquor, with a temnerate or beatia Pl&Cie avis hermetii,
or · · · · '· · ' • '·I · ·
17. rhe veuel ·beialr .
well and perf'eed7 close& and 10
muchA!once opened perfeetiop or' esMI' or. . 10
dlat you Jee the 11 to.be .kept th.at tlie mar
out and vaoish. I 'I'here;fuie Wth Rhaaus; 'keep· thy vee-
lei and iti junctures clole 'and' firm, i>r tile of the
And auother CioN·tbr ·vetieJ ·aDd u yon are
:Dot to eeaefrom thit work, or let it CoOl,·.o areyou to
CQo aw:h hate,. aeidua' b.J too,-•Jaeec. soon
. . . . . . . .. . . .. . . •. ·· . \ ' ·' l. . .
o1git1zed by Coogle
. . .
of <it._ you ,J;JlU!it .care
wh1c11 111 spir_
tt, of .th.e fo_
r :ron wift
llave _
notbmg but a: ae.;d,bOdy remammg, and the worJC :wtll
to nothing. llaitfr,-_grind it with most sharp' vinegar,
till 'it grows and'.be tl\at.tfle viiltiglft" 'be not tumea
'intO fume, ani! Crisn. I. ,. ' • •.• . " , .. • ' · ' .--., .. '
' 18. The'pli_
ilSsoPi}m··have itt :ti-Jei,r 'a ;two.-
fold th:e, ··amoist $.nd adry.'The nioist ftre tbey eaited:ttte warm
llOrsc ; \11 the sO long as humidity rentaini,
heat i.s retained ;''but the humidity being..coneumed, -t'he· heat
vanisbC$ arid ceases, which bf!ing srriaH, above
0; si."{_days ; it renew.ed, _by
Jng ttpon 1t many trmos urme mtxed with salt. Ofthtl fire speaks
. the philosoph-er ': 'the property of the' fire -of 'the horse
not witlt its ch-ynessthe oi!, but a_
ugmentB
Jt .W.lth Its humidity; ofber fire 'would be apt to COri•
·aume it .. · '· · ' · ' · · · · · ' ·. · · ' : ·· ·
," '19. Senior _
the P.h:iloS<?phe_r saidt, ' sepulo":re bury
the woman with her 'man, or husband, In horse.:.clung; .or balneb
o.fthe same heat, until such as they be intimately 'conjoineii
o'r united•. .
·Altudru1us ·the pliilosopher ,saith l_
ikewiie, you must
'hideyour mediciite'_
in ho,
:rSe-:;d,ung, ...Vhich is tbe fire o{ the phf-
_')osopbers; for this bot, moist, and havin.g.•. hU:-
·In1diiy in itself, and an iigtlt, or wbheheiS. . There fa
:iu:i othe; fi,re the
'ltntural hea:t (Jf a man, or woman's bOdy. '11us Is a secref.
.The vapOU:r' of'the sea 'not burned, the blood of man, ··and the
·blood of grape is out red fire'. · . ·' · ·
· 20.·The dry fire is tht! fire Of the bodies themselves; and the
inflammability of every thing able to be burned. Now. the g0-
·ven1mept of fireS is thUs: the medicine of the ivhite ought
to be put into the uioist .ftre; until'the complement of the white:.
·itesf shall ·· _
fs the conser:- .
vat&on
to understand that.che body \11 to be ·diSlotVed wiqt the sptrtt
with whlcli .are tillxeJ by an euy and.gentle decoction, .0
be by it. - also
a gentle fire health, but too much ·or great a heat w1D
'not conserve ot\nihe the elements,· but on the contrary divide
.'!hole work. . .
. 21. · very diljgent and l!l
,the and hquerafliOn tncrcase
not your fire .
too much, *liet"eby the :vrater may ascend to the
part 'of the vetsel. For then wanting' a"plaee of re.
stltk thst there, the
·For mdeed this work, tt la
'necessar.r. that' \'ll! ma11y times elevated, 'or iublirii'ea; ana
-And'.:the·gt!htle ·or\ temperate me·ia
- - .
o.g,tized by Coogle
Bacon.
. ' . . . .
O!ily which dtc mixture, w.pkcs tliick, nnd perfecte
the. 't:hcrcforc sn,ith }Jotulpbus, . that ,gen_
tle fire,
tl!e wlutc fire of .the. l!i the grentest
most pmu:apnl lnutt<'r of the operation of tlte elements. Rhas1s
41lso saitb, burn ,our lmw with a gentle fire, as is that of a
hen tor the hatching of cggs, until die body bebroke,n, :a.nd the
·wills an _rlJe
ftlc which ·drawn
111 t1te burmng is a,·oiued. The
ot the whoie work, consists in tlae ex,act tcmpcramen,t of the fire:
tht'f-Mtll'c beware of too much !tent,' come to solution
fl<•f(lre the tim<', viz. befo,re t4ie .matter 16 ''riile; for that will
):OU to. dcsppfl' of 'the CRcf ;hopes.-
'\\ hcrctore snrl;h 'he, lamvarc oftoo much tire, for 'if 1t be -kUldled
.before the dte matter will red, bc(ore it comes t.o'
ness and W'hCs-ebl it like an a:qon:iQD, or the
unripe ·of the _; wlierc&s it ought to he firs.t white;
then rt.>tl; likens the fruits ofa tree, a obtTl)' ufirst whtte, then
,red, .when it comes to its · ·· ·. · ·
·22. And tbnt he might indigitnte a time, of decoction,
·he suith, that the c1i.9solution of .tbe'body, and coagulation .or
of the ou,gb,t be by nn ens; <!qJ
coctlon m a gen.tle fi.re, a motst potrefau:,tton, for the·6J?&.ee
ofone iwndt-cd 'nod forty .days. "f'o which OrsOlen assents snymg, '
;n the 'bt>girimng ofthe·mixture; you ougbt to mix. tbe elements;
being sincere and made pure; Ciea.n, and rectified with a gentle
fire, by a slow nnd natural and to beware of tOQ much
fire, till you J...-now they are Bonellus also saith,_
that by a temperate and gentle heat amtinyed, you must make
the pure .and perfect body. · · · · · · · · · ··
: · 23. :0ugh.t ,to put on courage, resoiution, nrrd
:rn nttemptmgthts great work, lest you err, and be
sometimes following or doing one and then another.
For the knowledge of this art consisteth not in the multiplicity,
or great number ofthings, but in unity; our stone is but
the matter ia one, and the vessel is one : the governme11t iz; one.
and the disposition is one. The whole art and work thereof is ·
one, and Pegins in .one manner.. and in o;ne manner it it
finished. ' . .. r . . ' ' ' ;.-.--r .' ... . ..
·24. Notwithstanding the phiiosopbers hnye _subtily
themselves, :usd 'clouded their'instrucnops with amigmatical and.
typical p'hra8es and wordll, -to the enCl·'that their ait inight not
only tie hidden and ao continued, but· be had jn
they to cop,iinix., te
C:OnJom ; to Sublime, to bak,e, :m;d to congeal ;. .t«J
to'putrify, to ma¥e t? make alt·
the order, and Waf ofw?rki!lg .ts aJJ·.
pne, wh1ch 1s only w . Antd therefore to grmd u· tQ d«;•:
T .
. '
o1git1zed by Coogle
Alcht!mical Treatises.
coct, ot which you are·not to be weary, sa.ith Rhasis : digest
but not in haste, that is, not with too great a fire;
c:eue not, or make no intermission in your work, follow not the
Jrtifice of sophisters, but purbue your operation, to the complc-
;nent aad perfection thereof. · ·
25. Also. in the ·it is advised, to be cautious and.
,.-atchful, lest your work prove dead or imperfect, and to .con-
tinue it with a long_decoction. Close up well thy vessel, and
}\U.rsue to .the end. For there is no generation of things, but by
putrefaction, by keeping out the air, and a contin.ual iutt:riJ«l ·
with an equal and gentle heat. R.fmembcr when you
ffe in your work, all the signs and appearances :which uri.sc in
every decoction, for t)ley are necessary to be known and under-
ltood in C>roer.: to the perfecting the matter. You must be sure to
be incessant and continual in your opct·ation, with,a gentle fire,
to the appearing of the perfect wl1iteness, which cannot be if
yo.u open the and let out the From whence it .is
that ifyou manage your matter Ill, or your fire be too
great, it ought to be extinguished. Therefore saith Rhasis, pur-
.your b1,1siJ;1..ess incessantly, beware of instabilit,r of mind,
and too great expectations, by a too and pur-
auit, lest you lose.your end. But as another philosopher saith,
fligest, and digest again, and be not weary ; the most exquisite
and industrious artist can never attain to perfection by too much
haite, but only by a long and continual decoction and digestion,
lor .so nature works, and art must in some measure imitate
.· · · ·
26. T tlis then is the that the vessel with the medicine
put in o a moist tire; to wit, that the middle or one halfof the
vessel be in moist fire, or balneo, of equal heat with .horse-
and the other half out ofthe fire, that you may daily look
U\tQ And in about of forty days, the superficies or
upper of the medtcme wdl appear BLACK as melted pitch;
- thia ,is the sjgn, that the 'Citrjne body is converted into
mercury. Therefore saith Bonellus, when ·you see the black-
of the water to appear, be . that 'tbe body is ¥lade
liquid. The same thing saith Rhasis; the disposition or ope..
ution of our s.tonE: is one, which. that it be iuto ita
vessel and carefully decocted and digested, till. such time
•ba whole body be dissolved and ascended. And in another
he saith, continue it upon a temperate or gentle balneo,
long till it be perft;ctly .dissolved. inU? water, and made im,...
p;Hpab
. and th.e wb?le be e:'tracted into tb"
b.laqkness, which Js the Sign of Its dlSsolut.Jon. . 4cas
l&SUrctth us, that when we see the blackness of the water in
thirygs to·aqlpear, that the bod,r is dissolved, or ..
Tlus bladmeas the philosophers called th
. e first .........
tb•n.lh• male. are joined aDd it is
of perfeJ:t miX.tlou. . · · . . :.
o1git1zed by Coogle
·"
Bacon.
27. 1..:et notwifi1stnnding, tl1e wlJOle tincture is not drawn.
out together; but it;. goes out every day, by little and little, unttl
by a great length of it is }'>erfectly and made ,
complete. And that part of the body wh1ch Js dissolved, evel'
ascends or rises to the top, above all the other undissolved matter
which remains yet at bottom. Therefore saith Avicen, that
which is spiritual in the ve5Sel ascends up to the top of the mat-
ter, and that which·is yet gross and thick, .remains in the bot-
torn of the This blackness•is called among the philoso-
phers by many names, to wit, the fires, the soul, a cloud, th•
a coal, our oil, aqua vitre, the tincture of redness,
tbe shadow of tlie sun, black brass, water of sulphur, dnd by
many other names. .
28. And this blackness is that .which conjoineih the body with
the spirit. Then Rhusis, the government of the fire beinS
observed for the space o,f forty days, both (to wit the white
liquor, and the citriile body) are made a permanent or fixed
water, co,·ered over with blackness ; which blackness, if rightly
ordered, cometh to its perfection in forty days space. Of which
another philosopher saith, so long as the obscure blackness ap-
peareth, . the woman l1ath the dominion ; and this is the first
conception or of our stoae ; for if it be not first black,
it shall never be either white or red. Ayicen saith, that heat
causeth blackness first, )n a moist body; then the humidity
being consumed, it putteth off or loseth its blackness ; and ts
the heat encreaseth, or is continued, so it grows white. Lastly,
by a more inward heat, it is calcined into ashes, as·the philoso-
phers teach. · - · ... .
29. In the first decoction, which is called putrefaction, 011r
is made all black, to wit, a black earth, by the
out of its humidity ; and in that blackness, the whiteness Js
b idden. · And when the humidity is reverted upon the black-
ttgain, and by a continued soft'and gentle digestion is niade
fixed with its earth, then it becomes white. In this whiteness,
·the redness is hidden ; and when it is decocted and digested by
augmentation and continuance of the fire, that earth is changed ,
into redness, as we shall hereafter teach. "
so. Now let us return to the black matter in its vessel, con-
tinually closed. Let this vessel l say, _
stand continually in rbe
tire, till such time as the WHI1'E colour appears, like to
white moist salt. The colour is called by the phil0$opbera
arsenic, and· sal armoniac ; and some' others call it, the thing
without which no profit is to be had in the work. But inwal'd
whiteness appearing in the work, then is there a perfect con-
jut¥:tion, and copulation, of bodies in this stone, which !s
indissoluble. And then is fulfilled that of Hertnd, the
thing which is above, is as that which is. beneatl); lltld that
"\\rhich is beneath, is aa that which is. abo'fe, to pert<n-m tile
D1gi11zed by Coogle
.840 .Alclzcmi"nl Tt·entiscs.
. mystery of this Phares saith, s'eeing tl1c trp•
pcaring above in t1ic vessel, Jou m:ty be certain, tlut.t in .that
whi'teuess, the redn<.'SS lies hi' ; but bcfotc it becornc:; white,
you will fihd rnally colours to appear. 'fltcrcl(>rc :;aith Dio-
deeoct tile male 1uld the ('JilUIC ol") vapour
_•nt.il st.ich .lime ail tbey shaU beoome t'>ne dry bmly ; fm; except
they be dry, tOO divci'S OF variOUS tofOijl;i; IIOt llllfl<.'Hr.-
For it witl et'er be black, whilst tftat humidity o; llmisturc
tlte dominion ; but if fhat be once tl'tcJl it
cotourS', after many af'Kf aetcral wnys. .
31. Aml JilaD)' times it !il1allbe fh>m colour t6 colou!', ·
till such (iotes as- it comes to the fi.xt..<fwhitet1css. . Synon snitll,
all t-.;e chfours of the w0rld will appear' in· it when tlte black.
humidt't is dried up. But vulu.e none of these colours, for they
be not e true tinctare : yea many times becomes citl"iue nod
:teddis i.aDd rqamy times it is drie4, and bceop1es JK}utd again•
before the whitcfle8s wirl appear.. Now all thi11 while tlte spirit
·ie not perl't.octly joined' wit.ll t11e body, nor will it be joined or fixed
6JSt iJi the white colour. Asku1uH saith, between the white ar'Jd.
-t'he appear all colou.fs, eveu to the titft'tost imagination.-
. For tlie vaneties of which the ph-ilosopLe1·i l•a9c given varioti.s
1lnmes, nwd almost innumcrat>le ;' some fur it, and
some for emj Tile causeOft'he appearance of such nrict)r
of colours in the operatioJi oryotr medicine, .a trem tlte eitet1-
sion of tile ( for as umch as bfaclmetis a»<l wlliteness
be the cofot1is, an tlte other- colotlrs are blit meuris bc-
t;ween them. Thel'efore as' as any degtce or partion or
blackness descends, so often auotlter and another colour
until it comes to whiteness. .
. Now concerning the asccndilig and of tlle me•
dicine; Hermes saitl1, it ·ascends trom dte enrtf• into
and again descend• (tom heaven to tile· earth,. wt1erelly it may
both the superior·&treugth, and 'he in(eriot. Moreover
tnis yoa·are to observe, that if between the blecfmeas and tbtJ
whiteness,. tllere should appear the red or ciirinc oolour, you ate
:noi to looi gpon.it or it, for it is not fixed, but will ia-
iJ.fsh away. Tf1ere cannot mdeed be any perfect and fixed red-
ness, without it be first white. Wherefore snith Rhasis, no mah
ean come from the first to t:be third, bw\ by t'fae secoad. From
it ia eTident, tbat whlteliC$8 must ahvays be tim looked
fur, after the.blacKnesS, and before the Fedriesli ; for as mu•h a.
it is tlie coiupleineuf of the wlwte work. Then after tlii& whiic-
Jless it sha:t.l be cLanged intO' any true or aea
_ ble co- ·
_lour, mto the red. Thus have we taught yoQ to make tile
white; it remains now that we eludda(e ihe red.
· of the white and red, atnong
·difrer not in respect to their but tbe red elixir. n-eeds
aubeiliution, and Ionaer and a hotter 1ire in
. ·'
o1git1zed by Coogle
;.. • .
]Jaco11. .,..
tbnrse of the oper:ttion, than the .-bitt-, because end of
the white work, is the beginning of the. red work ; and that
is complete in the one, is to be bt.'gun in the othel:.-:-
l'hcrcl(>re without you make the white elixir firt;t, make the mat•
tt•r become first white, you cnn nevt.'r cume to the red elixir,
thut which is indct.>d the true red : which .bow it itt to be per..
'formt.'(l, we shull briefly sbcw. The medicine tor the red o...gh•
to be put into our moist fire, until the white colour
appear, nltcrwnrdti take the vessel from the fire, und put it
1nto another J>Ot with sifted ashes mad.
e moist with to.
tlbout h.nlf full, in let it stand up t9 the wddle thereof,.
making under the t•artbcn pot n temperate d1·y fire, and that.
continually. But tile bent of thia dry fire ought to be double
lt the lcust, to whut it was before, o1· than the hcllt ofthe moist
ftre, hy the help of this heat, the white medicine receiveth the!
'admiruble tinctu1·e of the rcdnCSII. · :
· 34-; You cannot err if yo)l continue the dry fire. · Therefore
Rhasis snitb, with a dry fire, and n dry culcinntion, decoct.the
'drx matter, till such time as it becomcs in colour, like to ver-
mallion or cinabar. · To the which you ahaU not afterwards put
to complete it, either water, or oil, or vinegar, or any other
thing. Dt.-coct the red matter, or medicine ; the more red. is,
the more worth it is, and the more decocted it itt, the more_red
it Therefore that wbich is more decocted, i» the mure pl·e-
eious and valuuble. .
85. Theref(>re you must bum it without fear in a dry
until such time as it is clothed with a most red1 or a pure
colour. For which Ep1ctus the
aith, decoctthe white in nrcd hotfurnacc, until such time asjt be
clotht.-d with a purple glory. 'Do not though the redoes$
be soroowhat long, betore it appean. For M I have said, tho
.fire being augmented, the first colour of whiteneu will change
into red. Also when the citrine shall first appear, among thosa .
eolours, yet that colour ia not fixed. But not long after it.'
the red colour 11hall begin to appear, which ascending to tbe
height, your work will indeed be complete. As Herme» saitb in
'l'urbu, between the whiteness aad the redness, one_colour onl1
appears, to wit, citrine, but it changes from the leu to the more.
Marin also saitb, when you have tbe true white, then follQwa
·the f&Lte and citrine colour ; and at last the perfect redness itsel£.
._
This is the glory and the beauty of the whole world.
86. ·our medicine, or elixir, is multiplied after a two-fold
_manner, viz. 1. By dissolution. 2. By fermentation. By dis-
.solution. it is augmented two manner of first, by a greater
or more intense heat; secondly, by dew, or the heat of a
bnlneuni roris. Tlac dissolution-of heat is, that yoa take the
111edicine put into a glazen vesseJ, or boil or decoct it in our
Ptoist fire for seven days or more, until the medicine be tl_
issol
'"to water, "·hicll will be without much trouble. 'fhe dissqlutiuu
. ' .
o1git1zed by Coogle
.Alclumical 'Preatise1.
lty Qt balneum roris, · is, that you take the glass ''cssd
the medicine in·. it, and hang it in a brazen or copper pot,
with a narrow mouth, in which there must be water boilwg, the·
mouth ofthe vessel ·being in the mean season shut, tha'"t the as-
cending vapours of. the boiling water may dissolve the medicine.
But note, that the boiling water ought not to touch the gl:l.S:f ·
which contains the medicine, by three or fimr inches,
and this dissolution possibly may be done in two or three days.
After the medicine is dissolved, take it from the fire, nnd let it
eool, to be fixed, to be congealed, and to he made hanl or
dried ; and se let it be dissolved many times; for so much
oftener it is ·dissolved, so much the more strona, and the more
perfect it shall be. · Therefore Boncllus saith, when the res,
brass, or laten is burned, and this burning many times reiterated,
it is made better than it was; and this solution is the subtiliT..a-
tion of the medicine, and the sublimation of the virtue$
thereof. ·
87. So ·that the oftener it is sublimed and made subtil, so
mueh the: more virtue it shall receive ; and the more periC.:.
trative shall the tincture be made, and more plentiful..in
quantity ; and ·the more perfect it is, the more it shall trans-
mute. In the fourth distillation then, it r.bnll receive sueh a
•irtue and tincture, that one part shall be able to transmute.a
thousand parts of the cleansed metal into fine gold. or silver,
better than that which is .generated in the mines. Therefor'c
aaith Rhasis, the goodness or excellency .of the multiplication
hereof depends only on the reiteration of the di,ssolution
fixation of the perfect medicine. For so much the oftener
&he work is reiterated, so much the more fruitful it will be,
and so much the more augmented. So. much the oftener yov
it, so much the more you increase it; for every time
it is augmented in virtue, and power, and tincture, one more
to be cast upon a th!)usand ; at a second time upon ten thou-
• sand ; at the third time upon one hundred thousand ; at the
fourth time upon a million. And thus you may ia.· · · •
power by the number 'Of .the reiterations, till it is almost infinite.
Therefore saith Meredes the philosopher, know for certain, that
the oftener the matter or stone is dissolved and congl:laled, the·
more absolutely and perfectly the spirit and soul arc conjoined
and retained. And for this cause, every · tin1e the
i$ multiplied, after a most admirable and inconceivable
manner. .
ss. Our medicine is multiplied by fermentation ; and ·the fer-
.ment for the ·white is. pure luna, the ferment for the red is pure ·
fine sol. Now cast one part of the mediCine .upon twenty · .
parts of the ferr_ncnt, · and nl! shall become medicine, . ·.
or tincture : put 1t on the fire m a glass vessel, and seal lt
U.at no air go in or.out, dissobe and subtillu it, aa oft aa yql)
.. . .
o1git1zed by Coogle
llaCOJJ.
evtn ftS "'" did for making of the lint tnedicine. And
part of this second shall .have as much virtue and
power, ten parts of the fO..mer. -Therefore snith Rhasis,
JlOW have we accomplished our work by·that :which is hot and
n10ist, and it is become eqtlfllly temperate: and ·what.sOevcr is
added or.put to it shall become of Jre snme 'temperament and
:virtue. v•ith it. ·you must then conjoin•it; that it may ·
jts like; yet you must not join, it with any otlle1· tHat it might
it to the saQte, .but only;with that very ·same kind, of '
whose sn\;>$tance it was.in beginning. · ·
S9. For in speculo Terrre spiritunlis; it is written, 'that the
elixir is figured in the body, from whente it was ·taken in the
beginning, when it was to be dissolved.• -That is to say, to die-
pose, marry or conjoin that earth -revived, and in its' soul pu-
rified by commixtion of it11 first body from· whence it took be-
ginning. Also in. libro· gemmre. salutaris, it ·is said, ' that the
.white work needs a white ferment; which when it is made white,
is white ferment also : and when it is made red, is the ferta1ent of
redness• . And so the white earth is ferment ·of ferment : for
_when it is conjoined with luna; or shall· be made a medieine, it
. is to cast upon mercury, and every-imperfect metaline ·body, to
bP. converteq into !qn.ai. And to -the red, ought sol be joined-
;
and it will become a medicine or tincture, to up<>n mer-
l!ury, or upon ]una. . - . . , · ·· . · ·
,. 40. Rhasis also saith, you must now mix it with vh•e,
'white and red, after theh· .kind; an41. be so chained tnat it fliea
not WherefQre we cGmmand : argent ·vive to be mixed
with argent vive, until one clear water be made of' two argent
yives compounded together. But must not make the mix-
ture of them, till each of them apa.-t or separately be dissolvecl
into water1 and in the conjunction of -
them, put a little of the
matter :u_pon ro"ch ?f the bOdy,·yiz. first upon f?tir; and it &haU
beCQme m.a short t1me a fine powder,; whose tnicture shall be
white or red. .This powder ia' the true and perfect elixir or .
_
tincture, and t)le elixir or tintture; it is truly a simple powder.
41. Egidius al&o saith, .to .solution put soluti<-m, and in dis-
JOlution put deaic:cation, vir;. make it dry, putting an·together
to the fire. Keep entire the fume 01' vapour, ,and take_ that
JJothing thereof 8y out from it. Tauy by·· the vessel and behold
the wonders, how it changes from eolour to colour, in leis space
dian an bouts time, sw:h .. tim.e u it comes to the signs of
whiteness or redness.: For it melts quickly in the fire, and con..
pla in the -air.. When tlte fume or npour feels the furce of
the bre, the tire-will penetr.ate into the body, and the·spirit will
become fixed, 'he matter nllde dry, a body fixed
agd clear pure either white.or This powder is thf
f'Od perfect elixir or tineture ; ;ou may separau
.w•e, frQPl ta.. we,· and 11et (!001. . · · ·
D•git•zed by Coogle
344 .Afchemictt.J 1rtaltses.
. 42. And first, part of it upon lOOn of ant·
'llietallinc body, trnnsmtites it into fine gold or silVer, accordinft
as ymir elixir or .tincture.i6 for the n'4 or .rite fron•
..·bat bas been litl;d, it is manifest imd e•tdcn1 tbft.t if you do
Jlot congeal yjye, making it .lO bear OT endure the fir<';
And then conjoining it pure silver,· you shall iJe\'Cl' nttnin
thelwhiteQess. And if yo.',' make nQ.t argent "ive red, and so
it may .endure the fire; and .then conjoin it with pure fine
gold; you &hAll attain to the •. And by
\'}z. !erm.entation, your o,r rinFfUre1 be
multJphed mfimtely. · · · ··
· Now you must understan<t dle dbdr Ot' tincture, give;
.fusion li.ke · wax: which cause 5aitb ·onr ·medicine
ought of necessity he of a alld niOstJmre; clea\';.
ing to _
mercury,, of its nature, and of mOst easy an thin liqui-
"faction, fusion, or the mft,ntterof water. Also iti
the book, eaHed 9inne datum Optimu·m, it is said, when
elixir is wclf prepared, it ought to 'be made liqtiid, that it may
melt as wax upon ;a plate red fire-hot, cOOls. Now oh'-
what you do mthe ,,.... the _sume you must do in the redt
tor the work is !lll ooe. Tbc .same OJlCMJ,ion ttiat i;; in the
i6 in the qf.hcr, M wel4 in mul.tipl!catibn t\6 projeciioai; · ·· ·
44-. Geber, the Arabian and f>hilosopher,
in lib 5. cap. 21. saith, that there are three orders'of incdicind.
The first Ol'der, is of medkfneil, Wftieh {JeiJ}g
imperfect boc.lies, tnke& not awfty their comiption or iil\perk•c'tiori;
but only' givti which in fltes away and
vanishes. · The second order, is of such which being
cast upon impt>rfect bodies, tinge th.em' (in examination) with a
true tincture, but take not away wholly their corruption. Tl1e
third order, is of such medicines, &eing cast uron im.:.
bodies, only tinge but away
otl tbeJr corruptiOn and maJung them tn!!orrupt ana
perfect: of the irst Ot' orders of medicines, we hal'e
nothing to say we now CORle to speak of the third. Let
tht>rcfore this your perfcet medicine, or elixir, be cast upon a
thouMnd Ot' ll)Ol'e parts, eccording to the number of times it hni
tx>cn dissolved, atbUmcd, and maae subtile : if you put on too
little, lou. must melld it .by adding more ; the
tht>reot wsll a perfect transmutation. ·
+5. The philosopher& therefore made three pmjlortions,
nrs maauct' of ways, but the · let one
pnrt be cast upon an hundred parts of mercury, from
nit its impurities; and it will aU beCome meqicloo, ·or elixir; and
this is the second medicine: which upon. a ·thonsand
COO\'erts it alJ into good or··luna·. "Cast i>ne part of
this second upon an hu"dred of aiercury prepared;
it will all become medicine, and this is the third
or elixir of the third degree,- which will upon ten
. .
o1git1zed by Coogle
• . 845
ancl part.' of another body, and tranllmute it wholly into fine
.sol ·lutm. · Again, every pal"t of this third medicine being
upon an hun,lrcd parts of preparec.l ·mercury, it will all be-
cume nJedicinc...of the t(mrth degree, -and it will transmute ten
hundred times its owi1 quantity of another metal into
fine or luna, according at your fct·mcntation was made. Now
these !ICcond, third, and fourth medicines may be so often dis-
sublimed, and subtilizatcd., till they receive.far greater
virtues nn'd and may after the •arne manner be
plyed infinitely. . · '
· 46. .According to Rhasis, the proportion thus to be com-
puted. First, multiply ten by ten, and its product is an hun-
dred: again J00 by 10, and the product 1000; and a 100
by 10, nnd the product will be 10,000. this 10,000 be-
ing mnltiplyed by 10, produce an 100,000; and thus by conie-
.. «tuence you may augment it, till it comes to a .number almost
infinite. That is to say, put 1 upon 10, and that 10 upon an
.100, and that 100. upon a 1000, and it shall multiply .to,
·or p.r9duce an 100,000; nud so forward, in the saine propor•
tion. . .
47.' Now the projection is after this manner to be done: put
the body, or metal upon the fire iu a and Clltlt thereon
·the elixir as atoresaid, moving, or it well; and when
it is tneltecl, become liquid, and mixed with the body, or with
the spirit, reinove it from the fire, and you shall have fine gold
or silver, acco1.7ding to what your wa& prepared from. But
lle1·e is to be noted, that by how much the mo1·e the metalline
body is the easier to be melted, ·by so much the more shall the
medicine have power to enter into, and transmute it. There-
. fol:'e by so much w; mercury is more liquid than any other body,
' ·
.by 'SO m.ucli the more, the medicine has power in being cast upon
h, to w.it, mercury, to.transmute it into fine sol or Iuria. And
a greater quantity of it !ihall your medicine transmute, give.tinc-
·tut·e to, and nuke perfect, than of any other mineral body•
.The like is to be understood, io he performed in the same man- ·
ner upon other mineral bodies, according as are.easy gr
hanl to be fused or melted. . ·
. And bccuulie is not pleasant, but inducetlt error, and
<"\ouds the undorstanding, we shall now use much brevity,' nnd
· &hew the compliment· o( the whole work, the prE:miscs being
· well conceived. It appears, that our work is hiclden in the
body of the magnesins', that is, in the body of Sulphur; which
is sulphur of sulphur; and in t.he body of mercury, which 'is ·
lnercury of mercury. '
our stone is from one thing only, ns is aforC'!Iitid,..
and it is performed by one act or work, with decoction : and
·by one dispositif)n, or operation, which is the changing of it
lint to black, then to white, thirdly, to red : and by one pro.
jectiou, by ,.,hicb the whole act and work is 1ini1hed.
. 'U u
D1g1tized by Coogle
.346 .Alr.hemical Treatises•
Jleneef'or.th, let aft pSt!udo-chemi.'lts,. and .theit ((Mlowenr; emrse-
fi'om their vain distillat1ons, -conjooctions, calcr-
·niltiom, dissolutions, contritions, and. such other
1.et. them cease ff'om their deceiving, prnting, and prettending
., any other gold'., tlinn gold•; or any othet> sulphttr than-
our sulphur, or any other' nrgent v!ve thaft ours·;' or my othear
,blution or washing.than wlint we have· taught.
Which wasliing is- made by meatN of too bladt colour, an&
is the cause of the white, md' not a washing matk bands...
Let them not say, there is any other dissolution tban ours,
or other congelation than that which is performed witll·an euy
fire: or.any odier egg than dtnt which we ha\'e· spoken of by
and. so an egg. . Or that there iS any ·prOtiuc-
.t10n of the phllosopbtc matter.·from vegetables, Ol' from man-
kind, or from• brute heasti!, or hares' blood, an<t melt like,. whieh·
may serve to rhis work, lest thereby you be
and fall short of the But hear. nt>w whaf Rli81118 sarth,.
look not upon the mul\itudc,. or diversity of naines, wiNch are
tlark and obscmrc, they are chicfty given to of eo-
lours appearing iR- tie werk. - ·
Wbat<'ver the natut'es· be-, aml hmv' mnn, soever,
yet coritciTe tlie matter or thing to be hut mze, atld flit t.oork to b11
hut one only. Lutas saith, comkkr· noll tbe muftitude of tlre-
&imples composing which the philosophers hnve dictated, for
the verity is but one ?"I}, .itt:' which- the spirit: and lite-
sout;tbt And wtth th1s 1t 16 tnat we tmgc and c:olour every
body, bringing them fi·om .their beginnings anci smallness, tO'
&:heil' compleat growth, and·fttil pcrfecriom · · ·
Permetitdci tile philosopher saith, it is a stone, and' yet no
stone; it is sulphur, and DO sulphur, it is gold, amltyet; no gold::
it is also a hem' egg, a tond, mans' blOO<f, hair, ·&c. by
'\thicb names it is- calleJ\' only to> mae the mystery. Then he
adds, 0 dlou most happy, let not· these words, Mr other the·
like trouble for by them understand our sulplw.r and oor·
merenry. If you diat are searelicrs into ·dtis science,. amder-
.stand these wordi and things which we ba-.e. WPitten, you ate'
linppy.· thrice happy' if you urioorsk>Od· not what. we have
!mid, God·liimself has hidden the 'tl!ing from yon; Therefore
lJlame not the philosophers bat yourselves; for if, a just and
fiiithful mind possessed younouls, God would; doubtless
dte verity-to-you. And know, it is impossible for you to attain-
to tTiis knowledge,· unless you become sanctified in·mind, and-
purified in Sf>W, so- 1111 to be united and to beeome one
with him. · ·
When you shall appear tllus before·tbe I..ord, shall open;
·to-you the gates of his treasure, the like of is'· not tO' be
·founddri all cat'th. Betiokl) I shew untoyou the'fear of the
and the lo-.:e of him with ut'lfeigned obedience : nothing
sltaU be wantfbg to them .that fear Goo, who are ·cloathed with
the excellenc! of his holiness, to whom be rendered all
bono&lf' and glory to che·a&ea ages. ·
o,9,,,zed by Coogle
TRUE OOOK OF SYNESIUS.
Tliougl\' plMlosophers hnve .written -
of thia
$Cience, nnder a of ;names the true prin<:i•
pies of .the art.; yet have they not done it but .upon important
-comidci-ations as we sbalJ hercnft(ll' l)f've And though
.;they are difFerent in their yet are they .J'lQt any way
one 8ltQth.er, but all at one el)<l, and-sprak-
lllg same \hm.g,:the_y (ffbove all the· rest,)
.to name.
:the.propct··a_gent, by a term, strange, ;nay sometimes con•
>trary to its nature an<l .quaU,ties. . :·
Know then, n1Y san, tluit Almighty God together this
Universe, created two that is to say, the
.red, both wbich pnder one ancl :t\le -same .. all?l after-
wards m)lltiplied ln such .aQundunce, that one may ·tdke as ·
much as ·he •hereof. 'J'he :tnatter4 is -of
;Jc.ind, "'lat it to be a menn between tUld mercury, and
_.is partly fi"(!d and partly not meed, otherwise it not be a
,mea_
n bt.'twi_lQt,metals and Jneretny'; and this matter is :theinstru-
whereby apr desire is accomplished., if we do b.¢
it. Hence it c<wles .that ·those who bestow dleir endeavours
thia art without .'the loose their but if they
,are acguaint;ed .with the they shall find.all
and fortunate. . ·Know then that::th1s ·.medium be\Ug >,aterJal,
,fO\Cnded amqng the celestial bodies, and that it is orily_there are
found .tb.-e &,u:l feminine·gender, properly,)
a constant, !lnd p,ermanent :virtue, of the eft-
sence.wbereof, I have told thee,) p'h.ilqsophers :
hs.,ve expressed
themselves by ',I'}lis they did,
tht! science might 11ot be by the :ignor-ant, which if
all butthat it might'be
J.lended patient -subtilited; ·
tngs, whtdt being ;SeC_fuestered bi;the sridmess ofth1s world_, are
;e:leansed from filtli ofthat terrene dunghill ofavarice, wbereb)'
the .a.re-chaiaed to the ear.thiness ofthis world, :wllich .ijl
(without th1s admirable;quintessence,).the receptaCle .o,fpoverty;
a being certain, tliat those dhdne wben,they 'have dive4
,into Democritw's f9unt-aiu, .that is $ay into ,t.he.troth ,of
. 5006 wh,l\t conwsion migh,t in estates
if ft/e.tN fY!le could .. much ._gold as h,e
.
would himsel£ Upon 'this ground it :t;hat,they :were pleased
.to speak by figures, .types, and. that might not
be understood but by such as are discreet, rebgtous, and ell-
lightened by (diviDe) wisdorn. AU which .notWitlistanding, they
left in writings certain method, wa3 anp rule, by the
o1git1zed by Coogle
348 .Jlc11emical TJ•tatlses.
assistance whereof the wiae man may comprehend
have written most obscurely, and in time arrive at the knowlt.-dge
of i4. though haply wading through some error, as I l1ave dont',
be GO<} for it. And whereas the vulgar ignorant
ought to subm1t to these reasons, and consequently ndore, wbut
is too great. to enter into his brain, he on the contrary accu&cs the
philosophers of imposture and impiety, by which means, and the
scarcity of wise IJlen, the a1't falls,into eontempt. ·
But for my part, I tell thee, they have always cxpreucd them.,.
selves according to certain truth, though very and
&amctimea tilbulously, all which I have deciphered in tins little
treatise, and that ntler such a manner that the earnest dcsirer of
1>cicnce shall understand what hath been by
the philO!;Op_hers. Anti yet if he pretend to unclerstand me and
kuow not the nature of the elements ancl thinbrs created, as also
our rich metal, he doth but loose hij; labour: b11t if he under..
stand the concord aacl disc01·tl of nntu1·es, he \\·ill by God's
arrh·e to rest? It is therefore my suit to God, that he
·avho shall understand the present secret may work to the glory
and praise of the sacred divinity. ' .
. Know then my ,dear son1 th11t tl1e. man
prebend the ofthe art. hccnuse it depends \lpon the.
ledge of the true hodj·, whicl• is hiddep from him, Know thcn1
n1y son, pure _and impure, <.:leun and unclean natures, tor
cannot come from that which it hatlt not. For
things, that.arc nol or hpve not, (:lUlP.ot give but their own
ture: make lf!IC tqep of thl\t which is most F-rfect and nearest it\
kinQ. thou shalt with, and it ahpll Avoi.J then that
is and take the simple, .for that proceeds from the
Note that we lulve two b()(Ues qf very great per..
fcction, full of : out of these t1ty n1ercury, and
of th11t thou shalt iuedicine, called by soiiHi quint"
cs$encc, which is n virtqe or Jl(>Wcr tlutt is perma-
nent, pet·petuall_y nay it is aclear
sheds true goodnell& mto. every soul hath once ta..ted of
lt is the k'10t ;lod link of all the elements, which it contain's in.
itself, beipg also the 11pirit which nourisheth nil and by
the assistarJcp works in the universe. It is the
fc)rce, the beginning ttnd of work, and to lay all
open to thee in a wOt·d, know, that th'E:qpinie6Sellceond the hid..
den of ottr stone is· dian our c;elestial
:md. drawn bY. <'>.tlr of its mine, which
engenders Itself, npd lS {lOt pO&&Ible fOJ: US to Wllke
water by art, htlt ntltlJre alone ··begets it, ajld that water Js the
1nostshurp vinegar, which to he a pure nay
th,at whi<:h all
1ts putrcfuct.lon ts becomG a tn-umty1 and by reason of vtriClJty
eauscs :tn appeamnce of divers cqlours. ·Ami i advisc'thee,·my
60n, make uo account of any otlier things, (as being vain,) 14..
o1git1zed by Coogle
Sytlts;us.
' .
only for thnt wuter, which burns to blnckness, whitt-ns, dis.
Mlves 1111d congeals. It is that which putrefies, nnd cnuses ger•
minnlion, and therefore I odvise:thee, thnt thou imploy
thysdf in the decoction of this water, and quarrel not at the
p:mec of time, otherwi11e thou shalt have no advantnge. Decoct
i't hrlittle nnd little, until it h:we changed it11 false
i11t<ra perfect; ancl bave a grt'tlt care at the beginning that thou
not its its vivacity. and make not too much haste
t<1 come to nn end of thy work. . Shut thy vessel well, that what
i"ll within may'not brer.th out, nnd t10 thou mayst bring it to some
cl'fi.•ct. And nottythat to dissolve, to cnlcine, to tinge, to whiten,
.to renew, to bath, to wash, ·to·coagulate, to imbibe, to decoct;
to fix, to grind, to dry, and to distH, are all one, and signify
J'IO more tlien to copcoct nntpre, until such time os it be per-
fect. further that to extrnct:the soul, or the spirit. or the
body, nothing else then the ·8aid calcinationa, in regard
they tbe ot' venus. ·It is througn the
fire ot the extraction ·of the soul that the spmt comes forth
gentl)·, 'fhe snme may also be 111id of the ex.-
,tracuon of the soul opt of the b:odl,, and the reduction of. it
aftcrwRrds upon the same body, untll the whole.be drawn to a
commixtion of·ttJt d1e four elements. · And so .that which is be-
-low, is like thnt which is above, and consequently there are made
therein two ,luminaries, the one fixed the other not, the
fiKcd below, a!ld t!Je volatile moving itself per-
petually, unul that whtch lS below, whsch IS the male, upon
the femllle,. and all l}e fixed, and then h!luea out an ilicompara-
Wc luminar;r. And as in tbe beginning,·there was only one, so
!n this matter, )?i'oceeds from and returns to one, whicli
IS called a of clements, 11-nd to convert the ele-
ments, is as much as to make the humid dry, and the volatile
fixed,.that so that ,which i11 thick may f:>e made·thin, and
<the thmg that fixeth the fixatJve of the thmg re-
maining ·entire. the Jife and death of th.eclements,
·which composed produce, and 10 one per-
fects another, anil anastg Jt oppose the fire.
The practice. :My·.on it is that thou work with the
mercury of the philosophers onlrthe l"i'F, which is 110t the vul-
gar, nar hath any thing of vulgar, according them,
is the first matter, the soul of the world, the co)d element, the
blessed water, tbe water of the wise, veneraous water, the
most sharp vinegar, the mineral ·water, the water of eelestial
grace, the virgin mHk, our tnineral nod corporeal me«ury. For
this alone perfecls both the 'lltones, white and the red. Con-
'lider wb.at Gebtr 'Sifys, that our art consista in the snultitude
of teveral things, because·the mercury is. but one only ·thing,
that is to -say, one only stone wherein consists·the whole magill-
to which thou shalt not any strange thing, ·save that
me preparation therWf sh.Ut take "
'-way from it wbe,t.o-
0 , : , .
o1git1zed by Coogle
.Aichqu.fcaf Trtalise1.
e·er l,lyreason tVnt in matter., all·tbiftg. re-·
quisite to this contnined. And therefore it is very ob.
acrvabfe that JJe says, we must add nothing that is strange, iav,
the sun and moori for the .red and white tinc;ture, ll'hich are not.
(to it) but arc its fermeri;t, by which the is
plished. Lastly, mark my son, that these suns &lild moons are
JIOt .the same with .the v1.tlgar gola an<l for that ·our su111
and moons arc better iri the.ic oature then i.he vulgar suns and
For our aQdmoons are in tl,leir Bnture .
those of the vulgar are dead in ,eomP'J'ison of ours, which arc ·
atl(l permanent j,1 osp- st()J)e. ·Whence tonyest.obr
'erve that the mercut·y drawn out .,r our t• like the
ai1d .oo.u)mon mercury, and for tbut reason, .tnjoys itself
ta'l.:es iu like, i& more!.
' ljl()',r
as It happe.ns m the s1mple , .thmg hath
been dllicovercd by the plulosophers m tltCli bOoks. 4nd,
tbe advantage therefm·e whi.ch is in this art, lies Jn the mercury; .
.sun find p1oon. Di<?medes·saith, make use 9f such a matter _.
to ,thou · not iu1l it,raJSge thing;
powder nor water, for that tlungs do not improve our
'.tont>, and t,bet:d,y be suflid,ently i,n&trncts him, who .under:-
stands him, ·tfllltthe ef o.Ur stone not from any
thing bc,tt of too their prin,:-
ciple, their r<Jot, &;ad great t;ee, intq
bmncllC8. · · ·· . · . · '
'Ii is but we
tnkc_away the stone in ef-
feCt its nothtog but ele,vBttiQil of the not part by
ti1me.and vapor, k>r the part should· remaip ii.t the·bottom.
1101· would that one should be from .tltt! 9ther, .but
that they ..emain 8t)d pe .tasetlter•.' Knaw also that he,
who ihall:l'lubl!me is all the
virtue of 1t ought to .be done, sh8U perfect
Jltagistery. This gave Geper reason .to aay that aij pQrfection
in sublitnation, and in this sublimation alLother
tiruis, that· is say,
putrefactiOn, of the
llllld 1·ed aJ1d engendred i,n .one furnace and
in one veiSCl, and this is the ready way to the final consumma.;.
·tion, .whereof the philosophers .baye ·made chapteqs, pur-
posely tD.amuse the ignorapt. · . ·· ·· · . · ' ··· '
Take then in the name ·Of
.th.e philotiophers, called the .nnt hylc of dre .which
..:on11ains- the shove named mercury, termed,
:first m.nttcr: of the perfect.. ppt i.t iptO its whic}J
.lll.ustbe cleac,diaphanoasaad round, .and with
,<;enl ()f and make it hal: in its well witlf.
:tcmnerate for the space of a philosophical month, keeping
it wn.t)ks aad .t.wo dap in the sweat of .sublimation until it
. .. ' . ' .. \
o1git1zed by Coogle
8&1
\egms to be putritied, to ferment, to coloutc<lnn<f t<>
.pled with its'mctallie to be fixed so tar,. that it
more ascend in airy fumous sub-tftnee, but remain fiixM· in· the
ltt,ttom, turJl'Cd from whiM it IUld divested of ufl 'Vi'stOO.
4lumidity, pntrified and black, which is call'ett the· sable·robe,
night, er the Tl'las when ou'r stone is in .
and that it mounts up ot:l high in ftimt>, thi!t called sublima-
tion,. and wllen Afnlht dvwn from ()0 high, di'stiltotion, a1td d&*
&cension. When it begiR5 to.participate ·of the flrinous snl)...
stanet>, and to be putrefied, and th!lt l.ly reason of' the fFcquent
ascent and it begins to coagitla:te; 'then it is
and lastly thr?_Ug'h the want
df. the hnmtdlty of the radical watt!r 1s wrought calcmauon and
.fi.xatioR botf) at the same·t!me,.. by
l'essel, as I ha-.e already,srud. Moreover Jn rlus subbmatton 18
separation M' tlte ··for oursablima-
tion itae elnnr 1s tarnt><l froJn water Jnto a tel'rt'stl'JRl·e1emeatdry
and bot,: by operatiOIJ it is· manifest, that·the separation
ef the four elemetrls in our stone i11 not vulgar but philosophical.
Henee ulto is it, that in cmr stone there: are but two ele-
ments, •hat is to say, eanh and W'lter ; bUt the earth hath in its
·gross21ess, tlJe virtue and draught of and the water
. in itself the air with its hamitlity. . we have- in 4)\!lf .atone
vi!lib}y·but two elemenw, bnt eft'ectuaUy there aTe fom-. And
this thou mayett judge, that the separation of the foar element&
is absolutely physiCal not·vulgar and l'eal, ·such as ·ignorant
· daily employ th'emselves in. Continue therefore its detoetion·
with a g<mtle fire, until all the_blnek matter appearing in the
' lliperficic!J be f!Uitedissipatetl by'the magistery, wllich
·is by the philo11ophers the dark mantle of the stont, which
afeerward5 clear is' termed the cleansing water of the
earth, or rarheY the elixi-r. And note, that the tilackness which
· appears is a r.igu of pstrcfactaon. And the beginning of the dis-
solution is a sign of the conjunction of both 11atnres. Apd t)U.
bLM:kness appean sometimes in forty days, more or less, accord-
ing to the quaatity of t.be matter, . and the. the
operator, which contributes to the separation of the said
blaekness• . Now my son, by the graee of God tbou art.ac:-
: cinainted gnc ·of OUt stone; which is the ·black
·earth, t.he ravens beat!, by ioine tailed the obscure shadow,.
npori wbi:ch earth as upon a base all the rest is gYounded. This ·
terrestrial nQd dry element, is called, 'Laton, the lull, black
dregs, our nietal, our mercury.' Aild thull by the privation of
the adust humidity, which is taken away by philosophical subli..:
mation, the volatile is .fixed,· and the moist is made dry and
earthy, nay, according to ·there' is ·wrought a change of
· the complexion, .as of a and humid nature, into dry clwlt:r;
and according to Alphidius; of aliquid into a thick. Whence
( iupprehended what the philosophen mean when tbey lhat
' .-
o1git1zed by Coogle
the operadori tl but $toneia only a tranamutation or n:ttlrr<- nnd
a retolution of elements. Thou aeest then how that by tbi.; "l-
. corporation the humid becomes the volatile fixed: tlw I'J>i•
ritual corporeal, Ji9uiu thick, fi.rc' air earth, anti that
there happens tlJ1 mfaJlible change m true nature, uud a
fttt&in dreolation of the tOur elementa. .
DEALBArJoN con\"erta out· mercury into the white sront', anti
·that by decOttion onl]• Wben the eat1h is sepnrott'C.l thn'i1 it&
· waJ,er, then must the vessel be set on the Mhe., ns·is usu.1l in a
furnace, and the be distilled by ·a gentle fire nt
the btgmoillf, 10 that the water come 10 gently d1at thou
distinci.ly number as far aa forty nama, or. pronounce fifty...mx
worda, abd let thia.order be observed in all the distillations of
·the blade earth, and that which i1 in the bottom of the -vessel,
.that Ja, the feces remaming to be imbibed, with tlte n,w water,
will be di110lved, which water will contain thrce or fimr parts ·
·more tben th01e fiecel, that 10 all may be di&SOl\'ed and
J into mercury and argent vive. I tell thee that this most bo
11e often• that there iihall Ftmain nothing but ·the nturc:. For
thiS distillation there is no time limited, but it is done 100ncr
er 14ter aecording to the greater or quantity af tlu> :water.
to the quantity of the fire. Then take earth
which thou alialt have reterVed in a vessel of glass, ,with its
tilled water, and with a soft and gentle ih·c, such as was that .or
.disti!latio!l, or rather one somew lltrongel',
conunue 1t, tilliUcb tlme u the earth be da·y and wlnte, and bv
. N8IOD of ita drought, drunk up all ita "'ater. Tbis dQJle,
to it some of the above said water, and so, as at the beginning,
continue on the same decoction, until that absO-
lutely white, cleansed and clear, and have drunk ali its water.
And note that the aaid earth will be washed trom its blacknesA
decoction, u I .hav4' said, it i• ensily
by Jts own water, and 11 wh1ch 111 the ell(.l ot the ma-
.giiltery,: and then to be sure to keep that white earth very
·full,-. For that is .the white mercury, white magnesia, foliated
earth. Then take this white earth rectified as abQl'C snid, .and
· put it into its vessel upon the ashes, to a fire of sublimation, aNI
let it have a very fire until all the coagulated water, which
is within, come into the alembic, and the earth remain in the
.bottom well calcined : ·then hast thou the ea.rth, the water, and
the air, and though the earth have in it the natu1·e of the fire,
· yet ·is it not apparent in effect, as thou shalt JOe, when by a
· greater decoction thou shalt . make it become red ; so that then
thou shalt manifeatly see the fire in appearance, and wch DlWit be
the proceeding in order to fennentatiou of tbe white eartlt, that
· the Oody may be ailimated and enlivened, and ita virtue be mul-
to infinity. But note, that the ferment enter into
the dead body, but by the meana of the water, whiCh bath made
a aod a marringe bftween .the. ferment and the
o1git1zed by Coogle
S,rJiiesills. ·'353
e:ti'!h. Anll1•naw that in nll the weight is to be
cvpsil.lt•rcd. tl1i1t a;() .tha ·qunntity of the volati1e exceed not. the
nud that the pass uwny in fume. For, as Senior
HH\'s, if thim cpovcrt not the cartb into water, and tbe water
i1!'i.<, thcr<! cauuot be a conjunction of thii spirit and body.
this t:1ke n.lmnen or plntc r«l hot,nnd cltst on it a drop of
r our which p·<'nctl'ating, it shull be ·of a perfect colou1',
and will be u sibrn of pert\'ction. ·If it ·happen it do not tinge,
rdtct·:1te the dissi1lution uud coagulation; until it do tinge and
})Cnetrutc. Arid note, that seven imbibitionlt, at the moat, are
•uffici<•ot, nnd five. at the least, that so ·the matter may be li-
, quified, nnd without ilmouk, and then the matter is perfect all to
whiteness, for as much as the mattcl' sometimes requires a longer
time to be fixed, and somt>times is don·c in a shorter, according
to the quantity of the 1i1edieine. And note that our medicine
from the 'Creation of our mercury requires the term of seven
months to compass the whiteness, and, to arrive at the.redn'css,
Dvc; which put together, make twelve. .
. 'fake of the white medicinE', as much as thou wilt, and put
it with its glass upon the hot nshes, it becomes as dry as the
ashes. Then put to it some water of the sun, which thou hast
kept purposely for that eud, and continue the fire to the second
degree, until it become dry, then put to it again some of the
above said water, and·so succct!Sively imbibe and dry, until
matter be rubified, and fluxible os wax, and cover With it the
red lumen, as httth been said, and the matter shall be perfect aa
to redness. But note tb:tt nt every time, thou necdest put no
more of the wnter of sun then is bnrcly necessary to cover
th_
e body, und this is done that the elixir sink not and be drowned,
and so the fire must be continued unto dt>siccntion, and then
most there be made a second imbib.ition, and so proceed in
order to the perfection of the medicine, thut is to say, until the
force of the dig!?stion of the fire convert it into a very red
powder, which is the true hyle of the philosophers, the bloody
the ·purple red coral, the pr,t.>cious ruby, ted mercui'6• and
the red tincture. . ·. .
· The oftener thou shalt <lissolve and the more will.
-tl,le virtue of it be multiplied to infinity. But no+c that the me-
«Hcine · is multiplied later by solution, then .by fermentation.
\Vhercforc the thing di$solvoo operates not well,· not be-
fore fixed in its ferment. Neverthcleis the rnultiplicntion of the
n1e<.liciue by solution is more abundant therrthat of tlte ferment,
hy renson there is more $Ubtilizntion. Yet I otlvise ·thee that in
the multiplication tbou put one part of the work upon iOur o(
the other, nnd in • &hort time there will be made a }loWder, all
ferment. . , · · : , ·
ThJis art thou to sepnrntc the earth from the 6re, rt=·
fr<,>m the subtil, gently, with great judgtnent, that is to sa1 '
para\e.tl.1e pa.rts t'bnt are. united to the fwnace, .bythe dia.so li&ion
XX .
o1git1zed by Coogle
.Alc1zcmica} Ttcafi&CA
ad 6t the ata eatth front the die-subtiTe
from the &t. that b to sa,. the 111ore substance of
. the atone, until thou .hast got it clean, and free &om aU spots or
alth. And when he saith, it aseends from eartb up intt>
lteavtri and returns again into tilt earth,. there ii no more to be
uPdentood by it then the 1ubHmmon of the bodies. Further,
to explain wlJat diatiUation be iaya tbe •ind carriee it in ita
that ia, when the W'ater is distilled by where
h tim aaCCRds by a wind fall offume ami wpour, aa'id afterward•
:returns to the botk:nn of the veesel in wlllcr again'. When he
would espress the congelation of the matter, he says, it;
· fOO·ee iS' absolute, if it be turned into ·that 3 to.say, be
eenvetted by de80Ction. And·to- make a general demonstration
ef all hath been said, bd says, it sliall receive both the interier
and nperior force, thnt is to say, !katof the elemena, for aa
if the medicine receive the forte of the lighter parts,
that is to say, air and fire, it shall also rec:ei.e that of the me"* .
grave and weighty parts, iaelf into watel' and earth, a.
tOe endt that the matters being thus perpetually joilkd toget!ter.,
may have permanence, darancet coRitancy, and stability: g1ot1
"toGod... -
Secret oJ Secreb, .
tV &ALii>, BOI.DAN OF
t. Ifyott·•aaJd be u\8 ol)ain w
philosophel"'!t'
. •. God d.oth live fer ever, so let thi& .-eti_
t) lift.·
..vou. . NP)V say, it abide& ifl the shell, and
contains in itselfbofla ..-J, •. ·
the other ;=and tkey •reanimal; vegetable, arKI Miaeral,
tl:e like of which is-net futmd in the world besides• . It bat1l
power· both active and in it; and has also In it asabeeaAc& ·
dead and living, spirit and soul, which, among tile iP,ilan4
the philosophers call the most \file 'hi»g: it colltain& iii 1taelfthe
tOur elements which are found in ks sltirts, and- may oommonly
be bought for a All&U price. ·It aacettds b,r i•tlf,. it Waxes-black,
it descends and waxes white, increases ana deereaaes of itlelf: ia
B a which the enrth brings forth, and descend• from
hea'Veri, gro'n .pate red,.is born; rises again, and ·
aierMmlt·Jit.ea> for ever. By muy 1rays 1t w twoucbc to iW ·
o1git1zed by Coogle
'Kctlld.
out its p&iopcr isWOD. fire, ntcdiate; atrong,
by various until fOP are certain is
fixed with the rf.'(l in t.hc fire. ':('Iris 'toll¥· ·
2. Read ami read 110 will all become clear
.tO you: But it' yap .$e JJ'ijJtJ:,t:r, you
withheld by the chGin.s of for, you shall
9ise know learn dlis H'-'l'Dlcs saitb, d.Je .is
but by hi.s brot,be, •nd bil !lister; not by one of
alone, but by both tog<.>tber: note there at:e
heads, yet but one body, one llJlt\Jre, ·and on'
:
is fur you ifrou hav, a this
nor ·b\tt with ap,l
luna, and by no other. , th, of ,in ,the
Jllains ot' mercury, look for it. 'is crpatcd, ..
bJ of these two, nod fos .Py ;the
tlleir permanent or fixed water. Onr &pblimation is to
t.he golden wnter, dis.10lve, aml spQ.r
iime our calciuntio,.t is t9 and digest in four ways,
Jlot otherwise, PY whU:b tPQy Peen S\ll>li..
.8lation.
·S. Know nlao Qur brass, .·9J" is tht;!
is the k.ue goW; but )'OU expel
thinking that our ol'- is a ).pprous l;Jody, t#
thatgreenness, but )'OU, .t.ba: j!J all ia
perfect therein, anc;l ...U that is i& ip the only
which is in our .or for tbn.t · by
magistery. isin .a very little in!o
.golil; and of!Ail Wl.
;_ing wbifb yoo may try
the folfowmg dJre4•ons: bla&s,
perfectly rul>ilied_, grin.,l AA4 it with :SCVeJ1 time&,
·• much every;
Wne i!l 1-0 ways of
fying and aaeatl'-'f Then if; t.o and
ga-een colow be red, J)S a Jl:I},d
JIO much ¥ednep will w.ith w.i,U be able to
rive, aome with the Veff.ool_our of pd; ·all
.wllicb done .md and is indeed :yery
work. Yet you<:annot the s,to.Ae any IDe&J:¥ ap.y
.00 moilst liqgor, which is and.brought iu our
iillnerals; this might, po.wer, 011 virtue,
.all w!ll no.t yet '" vegetation, springing,
forth, or ti-uttf\llnees, there be a grcell C91our. Where-
phi!oeopben call it their bud, and .i:heir pi ·J>uri-
licatjon, or pptrefaction.; and ,they say trl,lth herein 9 i(>t its
' wakr jt ia and purified, i,ta blackness
81U1 made wbite. And atter,..ards it is maue highest red ;
w.bereby may and p0 p-ue tincture is
made but wtth our brass or latte.n. . _
-'• Decoct therefore with its sou}, ti.U .the·spirit be joined v.·itl1
i.t3 body, .• PDf, &o you have your desire. 1'hc
o;9,11zed by Google
356 ..4lc1ztnritnt. n·cnlisrs.
philosophers have spoken of this under many n!lme!!, but knt'nli' · ··
eertainfy, that it ia but one matter which does clear or join it5el£
to argent vive, and to bodies, which you shall hnve the· true
signa Of. Now you must'know what argent vive will cler.ve, or
pcrtect11 Join and unite .itself unto• . That the argent.vh·e will
cleave, JOin, or unite itself to bodies is fulse. And they (·rr wlto
think that they .understand that place in. Geber of argmt vh·c,
where he saith, ' when in soorchiog among otb!Cr things, you
ahall not find by our invention, 1\ltY lilatter to be 111ore agreeable
to nature, than argent vive of the bodit.>s.'
5. By argent vive in this place, is nrgcnt vh·e
philosophical; and it is .that argent vive only which to, nnd
1s fixed in, and with the bodies. Tiae old philosophers could
find no other matter; nor can the philoso.lllwr;; now invent any
other mattet: or thing, which will nbide wit 1 the bodies, but this
philosophic argent vive <mly. Thnt common vive
not stick, or-cleuve to the is evi<knt by t."xpcrimce, for
if common argent ,·ive be to the bodil"' it ubideidn iti
proper nature, .or flies away, not being al,)lc fu transm\l.te the
body into its own nature and substance, and therefore does
cleave unto them. For this·cause, many arc dccch·'Cd in work.;
.iJ1g with the \·ulgar quick-silver: fo;· oitr stone, that lo say,
our argent vive accidental, docs exalt it8t'lt' tin· above most
nne gold, and does overcome it, and kill it, anc:\ then make i'
alive again. And this argent vive is the father of.rill the wonder,_
·fu1 things of tbis mtr magistery, and is congealed, and is
·spirit and·bod?. · This is the :trgent vi\"e which Geber speaks
the considert\tlon of whkh is of moment, for that it is the very
matter which docs muke pcrtect. It is a chosen pure substance
of argent vivc; but out ot what matter it is chiefly to be·drawl},
is a to be·cuquired into. 'l'o which we say, that it can on)y
be drown ottt pf that mnttcr in which it is ; Consider therefore
my Son, nnd whence that <substance is, taking that 81\d'
l}othing else : bl. flo other· principle -can you obtuin this magis-
tel'.'• . :Noq:oulu ever find an)' other
would contmqnlly abtde the. fiN', but tlus only, whtcb 1s
&f n11 &\!hstancc, pe-rfed And this
m;ittcr, '·w.heu it· ·ill rrepnred as it will transmute, or
cbnnge all of'u metullick aubst.a'ncto, which it is rightly
projected-upon, into the most perfect sol, .m' fhe fine,
gol<.l; but\mnlit ensHy, all oNJcr•bodiealunn•
. · 6. Dc(:oct fir-.;t wid• wind ol• air, ond afterwqr.ds wind,
until you hav&drawn torth which called·the scul,
PUt ot' your matter; tl\is is which you the
aH di!lemJC!i. No"-• th&
M·in the vaponr. ·Let-the bmly be put a 6re tl>r forty days,
of elerpcntal heat: and in deca<·tioo of 40 days, tbe body
y.•ill rejoite with the'soul, and the soul will rejoice witb tbe ·body
ftlld sjK11it, and.the spirit.willl'ejoice'·With body
D<git•zed by Coogle
Ku11d. 857"
antl they will be flxcd together, and dwell one with another, ia
which life they will be made pt;!ljKi:llnl &Uld immortal without se- ·
parntion for ever. · · . ·
Our medicine is made of three thiugll, viz. of a body, SQldr·
Thet·c arc two bodies, to wit sol and luna: 10l a
tinctu)'c, wherewith imperfect bodks arc tinged into sol; and.
luna tingcth into lunn; for nature brings torth only its likt>, a
111an; a man, A horse, a horse, &c. \Ve ha,·e named the bodiea
which serve to this work, whkh of some are cnlled ferment; for
as a little Ieven Ievens the whole lump, so luna and sol, Ieven·
mercury as.their meal into their nature nnd virtue. If it .be de-
manded, why sol and luna, having a prefixed tincture, do not
yet tinge imperfect metals l I answer 1 a child, though born ot"
human kind, not the tnnn ; it must first be nourished -nnd
bred up till it comes to matua·ity: so is it with metals also; they
p.nriot shew-their and foret>, unlesa they be first reduced
from their teercstreity to a sph·ituality, and nouri!ihed and fe<l
in their tinctures through heat and humidity•. For the spirit is
ofthe snme matter and natQre with our we sny our
arc ofa fiery ·nature, and much subtiler, but ofthem.
•elves, tl'icy be·subtil nor simple, but Ql'"t be matumted.
or ripened with suhtil and penetrating things.
8. Eart4 of itself is not subtil, but mny be made 110 through
v·hich is an inarcss for sol,
that 1t mny penetrate the earth, and w1tb 1ts heat make the earth
subtile; and way the earth must be so long.
till it be as subtit us n spirit, which then is the mercqry,. more
dissolving than common wntcr, and apt to dissolve the snid me•
ta1s, and that through the heat of fire, to penetrate and subti-.
lize them. There areseveral as mercury, sulph\lr, orpi·
-ml'nt, orsenic; antimony, nitrc, sul·nrmoniac, t.\ltia, marcasites.
··&c. but mercury is a better 11pirit than all others; for being put
into the fire they nte Qll'Tied away, and we know ·qot wltat be-
of them: but·nrercur.y, as it is much subtiler, clearer, and
pep·etrative, so it is joined to the metals, .and changed into them,
others burn and destroy them, making them more
gross than they were before. Now mercury· is of such a subtil
it transmutes metalainto simple and pure substancce
as itself iS, and attracts them to itself; bl!t no metal cnn be trans-
muted by any of thtr othc• but they· burn it .,Q earth and
.ashes; which mercury it becomes. impalpablt>, 4\Ud therefore is
calledarget'ltvive. Wetakenothing elsetosubtilize metals, to make
them penetrative; or to tinge other metals : sorite cnU it argent
vive, or a water, nn acetum, a poison, because it destroys im-
pertect bodies, dividing them inro several parts and forms; our
medicine is made of two things, viz. of body and spirit : and
this is true, that all metals hate but one root and original. Du•
why cannot this medicine be made of two compounded togetht>r?
l : it may be of all. together; bu.t .t11ey lpUiit
o1git1zed by Coogle
be rcd¥ecd int9 a mercury, which woqld be difticalt in reeped
of the sl.ortness of mans' Iifc: therefore we take the next mat«•
r,
arc the two aforesaid things, viz. body and spirit. SC}1ne
phiJ,Miophers say, our medicine is made of four things, and so
it is: for in metal!;, and their spirits are the t(mr elements.•
Qtbcrs say true also, thnt l,lletals .IDl!lst. be turnct;i into argent
vivc: many learned and wise .men err, and loose tbe}Ylselvea
ill this path. Thus far of the matte.r of which our medicine;,
made, or with which it isjoinecl.: now of the ves&els•
.9. The vessel ought to resemble the firmament, to and
the whole work : t(,r our medicine is nothing elae but
c,b::nge of clements one iQto another, which is done by the
motion of the firmament; (or which reason · it must necqs be
r.muH' and circular. otyer, or second vCSiiCI, must nlao 1>(,
.round, ami be Joss tl11ut the Olltwnrd vessel: six se\'CD inchee
high, called a cont;ai.uing on which ,rou muit place
•n alembic or head, through which the vapors ascend, whiel].
IUltst :be wdllutoo, with made offtour and whiteJ
e;t• eggs, &e. .Or of tlo.ur lime equal parts tempered with
w.bitCll of eggs, which you must imrnediutely use : lute it _a;o weU
that no spirits mny fly t\.way; the loss of will
your work exucmcly.; be The fureace or OUI,l '
.,Ust be round., twe1ve (}r tourteen inches high, aod or &eYC!J
iuchl:'li broad, B:Qd 1
.¥i.-e or.four in tnickness to keep_
tbe heat the bt-Uet·. ·
10. 011r matter is thrnu214 or hy help o.f the he.at
.r tbc fire, the of ihe water, and mso of the
which IUUSt be nourished ; lle and an4
lbeditate wdJ upou the matter. in to Jhi& worlc,
there ·j,:; 1. 2. Separation. S. t-:
or congelation. 5. Calcil)ntiol,l. '' 6.
toLU'l:toN i1 the a n moist one, and
l>e.\ongs only to bodies, as to sol and luna, which •erve for out
·tO-r a spirit .needs not to.. dissolved, be#,tg f1 liquid
pf ltsclf; but metnls ond dry, .and of p nature;
.-ud theretOrc subtili,led. First, because unlas they be
_.ubtiJized dissolution, they be rec;aced
;end made to ascccd throu.gb the·alembic, to be 111to
.spirit, whose remaining tiieces are reserved further use.
the body aud spirit must l>e made
and one: for no gross mnttet·joina or \Yit,h .n ·
jt be first subtilizOO, and reduced into ftfgent viv.e, then the one.
oth;r iz:acparab!Y•. For .vive meetiiJ8 witb
Al thmg hke Itself, i't'Joycetb Jt; aAd t;Qe- dissolved .an•
the iipirit, nnd suffers 1t not to nwkmg 1t tq
the tire; 1md it rejoyees beC4'nse It hu fOund au
vu. one like and of the same nature. Divolution is thUA
tloue; tr.kc lenvcs of sol, or luna, to which add 4 good qnantity
t>!' p'..lrc mercury; in the leav.es .by little and little_, into
o.g,tized by Coogle
'*ve3sel placed ln dJ gende a heM, ntftj 'l.'loi
fume: wJ1en all isdissolved, and tlu! mass seems to be one home;. .
tme body, you h!.we done \\·dl: If there be any M
Jnnttet undissolved, ndd more mercury, till nil setms to bc.meJt...
ed together. Toke the mnttet thus dissolved, set it in :M.
fur seven days, then let it cool nnd strain all dti"ongh a clo(h
·or if aU goes thmugh, the uissolution is pertect: if not,
vou Hiust begin again, and ·add more mercury, so long till all
difsolved. · '
11. i!'!' the a thing pm'ts,a:. otpure
&om inipure. We take·our dissolved mntterl nnd put it into
the sma.lle: vessel st.nn?s- in tl1e cucu!·bi well luting to
fhe alembtc, nncl settmg It In Mhes1 cnntmmng the fil'e for a
week: one part of the spirit sul>Jill'le)>,. which we call the spirit
or.1vater, and is the .sufltilest part; the other which i.-; oot yet
subtil, sticks about cucurbit, and some of it fi\Hs as it ':"erf!!
lo the bottom, which is warm and nioi!t, this we the ait•
.And a third part l"emaining in ·the bottom of the inner' vessel.
•hicb is yet- grosset, nJay be called the eartli. Elich of
we put into a Ve86el apars; but to the tlaird we pat more mer..
tttry, and procC't'l1 a• befbre, r'el!ctving always each ptindple at
apaF't .by iteielf, ami thus proceeding, till i-e-
:lnams m the mncr vessel, bttt a black pmnler, !ilueh we caJt
the bladt eattl1, and is the dreg• of nietals, and the thing causing
abe obstrnc,i011, the metals (,:M.not be united with the spirit;
this black powder is of :no use. Having thus separated the four
elements from the metals, ot· diYid'cd them, you may demand. ·
. 'tthat then is the fire, which is one of lihcse four? To which I
ansWer that the fire· and air are of one natul.'e, and are mixed
together, and changecl theone into the other1 and in the dividinS ·
ef tlre elements, they havw their natural foree and power, as in
the whole1 110. in the parts. We call that air which remained ill
the bigger becasse it ·is mare hot·than moist, cold, c1t
the same understand of the other elements.
aaith, we turned tAe moiet into dry, and the·dry we made moist•
and we tunied the body into water and _ · . . ..
12. -SUBLIMATION is the ascending from below upwards, the
.
.Wtil leaving the gross matter still below, as he
llllid before 1Jt the changing of the elements: thus tlie matter
Rlust be subtiliicd, which is not subtil enough, all which must
be d011e through heat and moistnre, viz. through fire and water:
You must then take the thing which remained in the
'Yessel, and pllt it to other fresh mercuty, that_
it may le welt
cissolved and subtilized: set it in B. M. for three davs as before.
Wemention notthe quantity of mercury, but leave that to your
aisctetion, taking n:s much as- you need, that you mny make il
fusible, and deat.like a spirit. you must not take too .
.ofthe mercury, Jest it become a sea; then you must it ngnin ·
1P·IIlblime, aa tOrinerly, and do this work so YJ!I hu.,·•
o;9,11zed by Google
.Alr.fremicnl trealiltl.
1H'o9gbt It thtdtlgh the Alembic,' and it be 'fery llbbtit," on•
united thing, clear, purc1 and fialiblc. Then we put it int1,
the inner •esscl, and let 'it go once more tbc nlcmtlic,
to see whether-any thing bt! behind; wbicb if so, to t s:ut)e
add more mercury, till it becomes all one thing; and leave.;
no more acdiment, and be separated from all its impurity (lnd .
auptrflnity- Thua have we mudc odt oft\\'6, one only thing,
out of bo<t! .and spirit, one only congei1erous aubstpn£4"t • hich i..
a spirit ana Jigh.t; the bcxJy, wbich before \VRS hciny and fi:u.otf,
ascending upwards, is become light and u'l\d a
'J>irit: thus have we made a spirit out of a we must now ,
.Jnake n body out of a spirit, which is the one thmg.
r l<'ixation, ot' Congelation, is the making. the Sowing nnd vola-
tile matter fixed, and able to endure the fire; and this .is the
of a if!to a body.z we ·t\Jt'ftC{l dryo(>!M
and the body, mto·tnoJstne&B and a ap1nt; now W(l must turn the
lij)irit. into a body, making that which_ ucend<!d to stay below;-
is, must .make it a thing fixed, to the snyinga
of.the phil010phers, reducin8 eac:h element into 1ts contrary, you
will find whac you seek after• "'iz. making a fixed thing be
•olatile, and a •olatile fixed ; this cun only be done through
c:ongelation, by which we turn the apirit into a body. But how
is thia done? We take a little of the ferment, whiclds made of
our medicine be it Luna or sol; a» ifyon have 10 ounces of
medicine, you takelbut 1 ounce of the ferment, which must be
fulinted; and this ferment we amalgamate with the matter.whieb
· you bu:d before the same we put into tile glnss vial witb
a long neck, and .et it iQ. warm ubea: then to the soid ferment,.
add the spirit which 1ou through the alembic, so much
as may overtop it of 2 8 inches; put to it a good
for s then will the dia&olved body:find its companion,
and wdl each other. · the gross ferment,
hold of the subtil ferment, attracts the same, joins itself
l'flth Jt, and will not let it 1J0; and the diiiOlved body; which is
pow subtil, keeps the spint, fOr that they ure of equal subtilty,
aud like one to and are become so one aud the same
that the fire can never be able to. septu·ate them any more•
.By this means you come to make one thing like another; the
teJ'ment becomes the abiding place of the BUbtil body, and .the
subtil body the habitation ot' the Sflirit, that it may not fly away. ·
Then we make a fire fur a week, or leu, till we .Aee . tl1e
matter which time is longer or aborter, according ttt
abe conditiun of the vessel, furnaces, and fires you make of.
"Wht'n you see the matter coagulntcd, put the abovesaid matter
9i' spirit to it, to overtop it two or three which digt."l as
)leforc, till be coagulated also. arid thtti }lracced, till all the.
:,tatter or spirit be cOMgcaled. TI1is secret <II the congelation,
·;he Philosophers have concealed in their books,·none of them
t.hat we know of hat·ing it, except only
o1git1zed by Coogle
Kaliil.
composed it in many chapters; and also revealed'it
without any reservation or deceit. · · .· .J • •
13. CALCINATION. We take ihe known ftlatter, and pttt it
into a vesica, setting a head upon it, and luting it weU, put it
into a sand furnace, making a continued gran fire fen•
t'hen the volatile ascends· into the alembeCk' which we taU avis /
l1ermetis : that which remains in the bottom of the glass', is like
ashes or sifted earth, caUed, the philosophers earth, out of which
they make their increase or augmentation, through heat and
mt'listure. This earth is composed offour but are not
contrary ·one to another, for their contrariety is changed to m
·agreement, unto an homogene and nnitorm nature: then we take
the mo_ist parr, and reserve it a part to n farthet' use. 'this
earth, or ashes, (which is n very fixed thing) we put inlo a very
strong -earthen pot or crucible, to which we lute its co'Ver, and
it in .a calcining· ttn-nace, or reverberatory, fol' three days,
tbet it may·be always red hot: thus·we make of a sP,ne, a white
calx; and oftbiugs ofan earthy and watery nature, a fiery nature:
for evm·y cAlx is of a fiery nature, which is hot and dry. We'
h:we brought things to the nature of fire; we· must n.ow·
BUbtilize our clements; we take apart, a small quantity of
·calx, viz. a fourth part: the other we set to dissolve a gOQd
·quantity of fresh ·mercury. even as we had done formerly (in a'l
the processes 9f the aforegoing paragraphs) and so proceed on
from time to time, tiU it·is whoily dil'solvcd. Now that you mliy
change fixed into a volatil£', that is, fire into water, know,
that thnt which was of the nature of fire, is now become the
nature of water; and the fixed .thereby is made volatile and very
subtil. Take of this water one part, put it·to the re8erved cabt,
and add to· it as m'tleh of the water, as may ovet top·
two- or- lhree·inches, making a fire under it for. three days; thus
it congeals sooner than at first, for calx is bot and dry, and dtinks
up the hurnidity·greedily. This ·congelation must be continued
till all be quite congealed ; afterwards you must calcine it as fot-
merly; being quite calcined, itjs called the quintessence, beeau.Se
it is of a mi>re subtil nature than' fire, and because ef the trans-
mutation formerly made. All being ·done our medicine is
finished, and but ingression· is wanting, viz. that the
matter may have an 1ngress iuto imperfect metals. Plato, and
many other philosophers, began this work with dis119lving,
or .congealing, and Calcining, as
But th!S· our- nredttme; wbu:h we call a fuloment, transmutes mer-
, into its own nature, in which it is dissolved and sublime4.
They·sayalso, our medicine transmutes inft'nitelyimperfeet metal$,
and·that he who attains once to the perfection of it, shall never
have·R"ny need to make more, all which is philosophiCally,to b'e .
aa.to the nrsr original work. , . ·
. 1+. 'Seeing then tlia:t our rnedicine trallilD't'ltes impeneet' metals
-into·sol·and btna, according to the·natnre and fotm of the matter
Yy
o1git1zed by Coogle
\
362 .Alc1zenracal Treltti&ct.
cut.. of which ·it is made ; thercfos:e we now a second time say,
that tlifs our mediCine is of t&at nature, that i.t ar
.changes, converts, divides asuudcr like fire, and ia- gf a more
. subtifnature tfuan fire, being of the nature o£ a quintessence. as
.aforesaid, mercury, which ill an impcrfu£t wbitance,
into its own noturc, turning the grossnes• of metal iut• dust awl
.a:.hes, asyou SeC nrc, w\lkh doe» not turn all things into iu,UA)uu,
but wbiela. is laomctgcnt: with it, tura.islg·the mat-
.ter a&ilcs. We ha\:e taught how a bOdy is tQ be changed
into a spirit; aud again bow the spirit .ili to be turned into .a
bodlt \'JZ, tl1c .fi.''<CU snade velat.iJe, ami the \'Olatilc fixed
agam : how the earth js turned into water ud ais:, .and the air
iutt9·fir«-', un1I tl1_
e fire i11to earth again: thea the into U:tf,
·and the fire into air,. anc.l the air iut.o water; the again
into eurtli. !-i.,w tlie whicu was of the nature of tire,-is
br®gl\t to pature of a Thus we have. taug)lt
tpe ways·of performed tarouah beat and mojstur,;
tnaking out of a ilry a moist thing, and out of a. moist <IL dry one:
. otherwise which. ure of several or families,
not be to one uuiform thing, iftlie _oue should.be
turned inC<> t'Flc otliers natul:e. And this is the perflilCtion.ucord-
ing to. the ice gf the.philosopher : from the eaJth into
heaven· and dcsc'cnEI fro111 tlie heaven "' tlt.C earth ; to the intent
to make the body which is into.a spirit which is subtil, and
tlten to reduce that spirit into a body again' is gross,
cLanging oJie element. into another, as earth into water, water
into air, air into fire ; and fire again into water, and water into
Are: and that into a more sabtil nature and quintessence. Thus
yoll accompli&l1cd the treasure of the whole wodd. .
b:.GllEJSJQN.. Take sulphur vive, mclt it in an earthen
.vessel "·eJI and put to it a strong lye made of
.and pot asTlcs: boil gently loietber, so .will !lD 9il swhn on.the
top, wbJcb take !Uid keep: having enough of it, mix it with sanc:l,
'distil it through an alembic or Tetort, so longtill it becomes
iucomtmstiblc. Witli this oil we imbibe our medicine, which
win be like soap,. then we distil.·by- an alembic, and
.three or fo'!f times,_ more oil to it it be not im
. !>ibed
enough. thus 1mbibed, put.:fir.e .under 1t, the ·
the.med!cine and fu&ible, as tb.e body
glat;li. . Then take the aviS l1crmcUs befQre reserved, aJl4 pqt 1t
'to it gradatim, it all be_
c01acs perfectly hed•. Nowaccordilli .
·to Avicen, it is not convert or
they be reduced to their first matter; by the
they are. mte aDOthet metal ':tlle alchJJP.ist 4oea .
like ,phy&&cJan, who tlrst oW the
matter,. the to man's bealtb, and tben a .
dial to restore the vital powers: SC? we tint IP.,:'CJ.I'.Y
!'nd snlplaur jn and !ben dle.h
.e
eaveniJ.
.m accordU1g to theu varlq&IS ..,
. . . . .. .
o,g;t,zed by Coogle
Kalicl.
. works fnrt1ier hy ""f lli(, as -her instrument;' and really
malccs the most pure and fine sol and luna: for as the heavenly
_
elemental virta5 work in 1Ulflttral vessels; even so do the attificiRI,
being made uaiferm, agree-able with nature; and as nntt1re wotk•-
by means •fdie' •hire·nRd of the bodit>!l, so nlso art wotk:-
eth by a lil,te teraper::rte and fire, -by the tncning
:md ln.fng virt1,1e .in .the matter. the heavenly virtne
with it at first, and iDGli.nble to·tbis o'k' dtat is farthered by art-:
heavenly are to dleir rnbjeets, as·Jt1s'in·
.all natural in thmgs ptttrcfa<;tion,:
where the &!;tralmftuences are appare-.t according ·to the capncit1·
of the matter. 'T.be imitates t-he satne thing, dl!!ltroy- ·
ing one form to lteget ad his operations are best when
' to by sulphur, bj
d_
Jgestmg, subhmmg, 1111d :argent y1ve, an· CKact
mixtion, ·with a inetnllic -and thus 6\tt of,cfu!lir ·
the fonn-ofevery metal is produced. ·The powet ofOie convm-
element Ghat the parts of it may appeM' tn1
·Hie
converted clement; and being thus mixed witli too
tiling, then that element bn\'ithatmntter'wl.icll JDMie it nn
elemeht, ·and · the virtue of the othet clement wiH ·
be:h p
1
rcdominnn_
t remtWn; >this jA-
_.. o e.at:t. · · · · . .
-
MARY- OF ALEXANDRIA'. ·
I 1'-ransJ.alecl jrqm 4rabic tlu Li'bl;atypi Pt:#,s. .
. . " . . . .
.:.• · "ii
· The philosep"• ·ATO!'wentto·see Mary cbe·.pr.opbetes!,.--&Ad
after saluting -her.,·taid,· •is :it true dlat can.make the dooe ·
white_
in one yes,·.replied ' and in . '
a day:'.:-•I canJIOt -eoocenre,' l\.ros, •
ofdoi_D! what iaor by what mesns ODe can rt so ·
,by tne inqgistery:' :Mary: _
that -
water; -wtdting can- be made, whitens 1t m a ·
·• yes,' aid Ares ·•bUt a loragtime.is necessary tb malte:that thing
of Hermes,• replied:Mary, '.s.ays in all·his
booksi th:atotbe can whiten the stone' in an hour:'-:-
' 0,• -
said Aros-, .c.yo1i tell ine a:· strange thing:'-' very !trange:
replied Mary,-'·to-dloae wlao·1uoe unacquainted·with it:'-'-but,'
o;g,llzed by Coogle
.Alchem1eal 'J.'reatists.
-s;wered Aroe, 'as the bcdy of metals, as Well·is the.·humatt
llody, is composed of elements.- You must then say thnt they
c:an be:fixed and IOOderated, their ·fumes coasuJated and retained
ill a till all that ought to be done is fully aecomplished. .
'I assure you Aros,'. said Mary, 'and I take God·to witneM,
that ifyou.were not such as you are, I would not say a
whtat l going to to you; and·I will oa7' re\>eal w far
QS God lJ plCA800 to maptre me. Tnke then· of ahun, of the
whitll gum, of the ned gum; whiCh is the.lcibric of f-h<'·philq-·
their _gold, atJd t"eir tincture, and join them
by a tfuil marnage, the white gum with theTed. Do you under-
&tand me?'-' Yes,' liBid Aroe, 'lcomprcbend what you have
'·Reduce all this into numing water,' continued Mary,
",qnd by means of the fixed body, purity this truly diYine w:tter:
'!bi(:b wa.s dr.awn from the two sulphun ;- cause this compottitiott·
tp bewm_, liquid, by the 'secret of nature, in the philesopbical ·
vCl¥1el, Do you eonceive Aros ?'-'Yes,' replied Aros, 'l1UIC!Ie.r-·
very well. '·PreterVe the fumt-,' pursued Mary 'and
let oot aqy of it etlC&pe, make the proportion of your fire similar ·
t(l the tllJJ'- beat in June or July: stay ncaryour vH&el, and you !
will see things in it which willsurprize you : mr in lesa·thara tllree '
hpQT.S.yQUr become black, white, and onnge; and
the fume will penetrate the body, and the spirit will become:
fixed, the whole of it will afterwards seem as milk) which ·will
make itself incerating, melting and fenetrating. This is the
concealed secret. Then Aros said, ' know not bow to believe
that it can be alw!!-IS in this manner.' ' Behold a thing highly
admirnble,t said Mary, 'wblch nns· not been known to· the
ancients ; it never entered their minds. Take the white clear
and dignified herb. whieb groW. up(,n the little mountains, grind
it fresn, when it is at its determined hour, for in it is the genuine
body which evaporates not, neither does it at all fly from the fire."
c X. not this.the t.ue atone &peak ef?' eaid Aros. . ' Yes .
it is,' .replied Mary, 'but men do not know the regimen .of it, ·
because they go on with the work before they are prepared.'
• What is tliere to do aftCif thts,
.... Arm. ' It is ·necessary,'
to him, 'to rectifY and zibetb upon thi&
the tWo fumes, whitb comprifte aad embnee die
t-. lrumil1a.ries; and to ,pUt them upC>n that which W..·'
whicm is the of the ROd speit&j.ibe tnle .
wcigbta of the sciencet.t•en bavmg ground tht: put it_h) ·
the fu!e: admirable thinp wJtl:be teeJJ. There·is Wtliel"
reqtlke4 but t& bqn modl'rate 'fire; aier which it:is st'iP... •
' to-set-, hmr ill k&s than an hour,·the·eompoeition willtt- u.. .
one''eoloai' t.-a110t!Jer till it comes to: tlle perfett led, ot wltitle , •
wlwn Jt tben·nbate die fire ancl open u.el; wheal it it
cokf·then. will appear in ita detlr and: sbuting. Jille a.
peurl, the eclont"- of 'Wild ·.JIOPP1 msd with white. k i• *et»
mclpeoeP"ating,:aad of·t&G a..lr.·
by Coogle
.'Mary ojAlfxandria.
twch-c wcight of imperft:c; will convert
it into gold. . llchokl the .concealed sccn•t.' Here Aros pros- ·
himself on the.t'{l.rth. Mary said to him,' ' rise Aros, I will
f,hew you a further abrwgcmcnt of the work. Take the dear ·
formed upou the little mountnins, which are not at au:
made ·plltrcliu:tion1 by ouc movewcQ.t; ,jrif3d
body w&th th
.e gum e!Zl1ron, .and the two
clinron is the body seizes an<f keeps pf' the·.ispttit.
the whole,.place it the fire, it wilf ancl, y9U..
it its l'rmiuiue }Wt, the wl1ole like
water "'·hicb was distillL-d, it \Vill cong;eal in the air, ·and will
remain a body: ifyou make proj<:ction ofit on inipcrfeci bodies,
you wiU be u witnca;s to marvels: for this is.the hidden secret of
the science. Know that these two fumes, of which I spoke, are
the roots of the a1t; nnd these are the white kibric, and the
humid fire, which tl•eflhiJQSOPhcrs have called by s0 many names.
The fixed body from the heart of saturn, comprehends the tinc-
ture and perfects the work of wisdom : the body that we take
_on tbe little m<>qnt$ins is clear and white, and these are the
medicines or two matters of art, of which the one 'is to be
purchf!sed, and the other to be got on the little mountains ; the
sages have called them the work of philosophy, because without
them the science cannot be pel'lectcd ; and herein lies all the
wo!1de1·s of the art, for there is in them four stones: the regimen
of it is truly as I have said; Hermes has made many allegories
thereon in his books, and the philosophers have always prolonged
their regimen, saying t,hat a long .ti11_1e.is ne_cessarY to do it M.it
ought to be done. They hBYe smd It 1s peceuary ta do Cfirtam
things which Are not necessary; they always deelalltd ,
n .year is ;re<JUirecl to complete their magistery. · Thi!ttbty aaic4
to «kter ignorant people,.·by- moki11g them think their work
be perfetted in•I•· than a year. As this .is a grand
thet1e is:none bat dod CNJ it ;. those who bear of it
'being nnable•ta.;try, becauae wcy don't uudcratnncl it.. But ha\'8 .
you· undcrst.God me, Aros. ' cs,..Mury,' said he, ' bl.lll besecclr
y_ou to tell me what \lei80l i4 lie for witbovt 'knowing
thatthe-operntion C'aAOt 'Tl.e veucl,' said .Mnry,
'is tbc vessel vf.HerJDQI;·wAkm
the-igtw*ril catmot leown,. fQr it qf the
philosophic fire.' Aros then said, ' 0 !tell. me l
play ymt, if,oub.We fOund inthe books of the philosopbcrs, that.
we.C&.D JJuta Uie wid! one siRg.le body.?' • Yea,' said she. ·
• it,. the root of
·a ..p'*'"" which the whole body, wh1ch
redaces it. illlo )10\Wder., and which coogulawa its mercw-y by ita
od.dr. ··1 paolllt to you, that..wheo this poison dissolved into
a 11UM1& i•·Wbat&ooVer. lllftnner the di&&olutiQn i11 D\do, u
ooagulatet merCUFJ into.geuuiM&ilYa; to all testio; aad ifptejec.;
&ito wlllade .a£.it it;will chlas- iiUo silva·. 1 say-tg
o1git1zed by Coogle
·'
yau, that be ali b?dies; b11t'
the to any of.Jt, use
of the short work; they &mini·
it easiiy iri. .. tb:.t mattet", which most the
four elements, and they have 1111ilriplied .the obseuritv ofthat
matter by givingitd.Qrerse na111es. The philosophers spoken
aufficlendy of aK dtat is tQ qone·to the· .!
work,' except of the of H«mes, a c;f;'Yine secret
that God will not dist-losc to the G$.tiles or IdolatorS:
sel being intlisp'ensible to the dtc:te k.now ,
it
,...ill never attain the true rC$it.nep. · · · ·
HERMES 'rRISMEGISTUS.
Set·en Golden Chapters.
. . . .
I. saith, I.have not in a very long to 'try
· · nor have I spared : labour Of mmd: but I
obtained the knowledgeef this art, by ihe inspiration of t.he living..
God gn{y, who esteeming me his servant worthy, did reveal ancl
open the secretsto me• .He has bestowed upon rational ·
tbe power and &.:ulty of judging aud·
.determining truly, ·not
f'om(king ·any, so as to give them an occasion to cease
after the truth. . For my ·part, I hadnever discovered any thing
of this matter, oor reve81ed it to any one, had not tbe fear ofthe ,
judgments of.God, or the hazard of the of llly..aoul
tar such .a ·concealment prevailed with. me. . .It is-a debt 'llllll
willing to J-.Y to.the jllSt·; .as t8e father-of,tbeJua..b.s ·
bcstowed·tt ·upon me. . . ,. ·
Now · ·understand, 0 ye children of ·
· wisdom,··thiJ,t ·: the
knowledge.of·the fuur elemeats of the ancient was.
not corporeally; nor soughtinto : they are t;brOufh ·
patience to be attained; according to thei1· kiad, bv.t in·the4' .·
own operati<»B are hidden or obscured. You C&l'l do nothiug,
except the matter,be ·compounded, it p.eJ'':" _
feetcd, unleSs .first the various coloura-are
pl-isbed. .Know then; ·that the division which ·was tn&ae of,
·water. by the ancie,ut is that · .
o1git1zed by Coogle
• 861.
into otbe""J subseanees ;.·6RP.·iDto two, and ,t)!reer,to one;.
the third part of which is .colour, or has tineture-, viz. the coa-
g•tlating humour; or t>.t the second and third •
are the weights of.the wise. Takeof the bamiuity or moisture,
an ounce .and half• of the ,.jz, the soul of sol,
half an ounce, that is, '11 foiiU"th .part oi'. botlt ; 4>f. the 01'81\ge .
gum in like naanner, ltalf an of. awipi§ment balf an ·
ounce, whie.h are eight ; t.l&at is three .
Now undentassd .that tbe Tioe of the .••itel· ·er tree
'of the philosopheJS is .extraeted or drawn forth in tlwee, bat .
the wine thereof i.. not perfected .till at leiJ8'h :thirty be com- ·
pleted. Un®rstand abe operation. diminishes the..
bat the tincture augnaent.a its strength• ... Beciu-.e luua ia ·
fifteen ..days is diminished, and .in the tltird.iii . augmented·.
This . is then the beginning and the- end. . .
Behold, I .have exposed to. you that whicth was hidden,
and the. work is bolh with you and for yoU.:. that which is within,
is taken out, and is, permaneat M fi.x.etl ; and you. may.
have it e1ther in the earth, or in the aea.. .· KeqJ therefore your ·
which is. prepared ia tbe inRenJlott chambew of the
bndegroom, in wa.ieh it is coagulated;. b: tbal it; the,
vive itself, . is said .to be of the J'emainillg .eaftlt, .· He
theft!fore thnt .now hears my words, let him searc:h .and
quire, from them; it is oot for the jpstification of the work of
any evil doer, but to give to every good man a rewartl, that I
have .laid open or discovered all things which were relating.
to this science ; and disclosed and made plain and open to yo\l
the greatest of secrets, even intelleetual knowledge•. .Know·
therefore ye children .of:w1sdom,. and ye after the fame
thereo4 that. v.alture standing upon the mo11l1Wn, cries.out ..
with a great voice; saying, ·I asq the: white of the.black, and ·
the yellow of the white,·and the.cittine ofthe yellow, and behold
I speak the very truth. Now-the chief ofwart is. the
trow. which' in the blackaess·of the night, lttld elearness of the.
duy .flies without wings. . From the bitterness iD the ,
throat, tlae or.tinging is taken : but the red goes
fOrth «.lf its bGdy, and a pure water is taken from its back. Un-
?crst-and. aud of this God•·wbic}l . h!dden from
- IgDorant· and foo\ish men. .T):ns hidden secret whtch the.vene-
, rable splendid in color, and sublime in_spirit, sea,
. is hid in the caverns of 11\etals: behold I have.exposed it ta. '
you: and give thanks to. th.e alpligbty
. .God, .who .W.Ches .you
this knowledge: if grateful, he Will the tribute
of yeur love. You must put thi.s into a moist
,make it to boil, which augments ·the heat of the humour Of
.matter, an4 destroy• t)le .of _the incombustible sulp}Jur;
till the, radix .may. appear then .extract ·.the
redness and the light PJ118, till, only about a .thh:d remains.
.For &Ue, .t\ae p.b.iOsophen are. said to envious or.
. .
o1git1zed by Coogle
368
ebseore, Dot for that the)' the tbmg to tf1e honest or juat
tD the or wtr.e; 01' te the legitimate sons of art 'l
bat to the ignorant, the Yicious, tbe di.honest : lest evil person&
ahould be made po1rerful to perpetrate sinful things ..for such a
Jaalt the philoeOphers must reader an nccoant to God. Evil
men are not worthy of thi& wisdom. . ·
Now thil I call by the name of the stone ; U.C femi-
nine o£ the the ben; the white spittle', or froth, the
'I'Oiatile milk, the ineombustible uhes; 10 that it mighl be hidden
'from the simple .and w!-o wane. honesty,
:and coodneas: wkich .noCWithataadtng • &JgRitied to the
wise aDd pnadeat by one- ontr naane1 which i& die stone of the
wise, or the stone. Ceneene therefore in the
thefire, and the heavenly even 10 the last moment of
it& exit. But 1 deprecate, or wim a cul'8e tTom our
the great and living God, even to all the sons ol tlte philOs<>-
.pberS, to :whom it 8baH pleaae God to give of the bountifulness
Gf hia goodneas, -
if dwy shall nndenalue, ot· dh·ulge the name
and power to foolish or ignomnt person, or any
man wafit for the knowledge of thi• iea'et. Whatever any man
hu to me, I have retumed it again ; nor haYe I been be-
hind hand with any, or desisted to retum an efJDAl kindness;
.ft'en ia this friendehip and unity ooDO.ts the chief matter of this
·q>eralion. is the coacealed atone of many whlcb
bonu•d kought forth in one coloa:ar only : understand this
IIUi conceal it. By means of it, (through the permission of the
GJDnipotent) .dM greatest di!lea&e is, curetl; and every sorrow,
distress, e\"il, aDd hurtful thing may be evaded : and through
lhe help thereof, you may oome from darkness to 1igbt; fr()m a
Gesert lW.' wildemeee to a bftbitation or home ; and from straight.-
aeas and.neet.issities, to a large and ample fo1·tune. .
; 11. Now my iOn, befOre all things, I admonish thee to. fear .
·Ged, in. wfwm is .the of your undertakings ; and the
tmitillg- and ciispGsing ()f evny thing which you segregate, put
togeiliesT, or detign this parpot;e. Whatever l speak Ol"
consid1er it, lmd reoson it in '·our mind : I advise
:not than who-lft'.e depra¥ed iR their reason" and un<lerstanding,
.nolt the ignorant, or inaipid of j4sdgment. Lay bold of my in•
stcuetioos;. ud meditate upon thera ; and·5o fit your mind and
to conoet'le what I My, ns if you yourself W'ere
the of things I write. l•'or to what nature is hot,
it cbU be made ¢0kl, it mall )!urt er ·inju17 to it; so in
l;ke maaa€
1', he to wlwm- riWiC!>h·IS bocome a guide, does shot
a;,J'Cligst himselt; tlw docn of l•lte should be securely
dt.'Cei:Jed. Take (my son) the flying bird, tmd drown it Bving;
theft. Gilide, sepa&!atM, or cletmse it. KMI'l' it's filth, •hich keeps
it in cicath ; expel it, Nld. put it away from H. that it may be
made livigg, anci answer tiee, not l!Fy in the above,
but tr-uly by fo.rhouiag to fly.. .lf abetefere yeq: ahaiJ·deliver it
o1git1zed by Coogle
Hcmus Ttismegistits. 369
out of its imprisonment, and thetl afterwards-·you shaU order
nnd govern it, according to the number of days I shall note ·to
you, according to reason ; and then it shall be a companion to
thee,' nnd by it, thou "Shalt be made great and powerful. Ex-
tract from the sun beams the shn_dow, and the sordid matter,
by that which makes the clouds hang over it, and · cormpts it,
' and keeps it from the light, because by its torture and red nery
.heat, or redness it is burned. ·
Take this redness corrupted with the water (which resembles
the matter, holding the fire as in a live coal) :from it : as often
a.s you take this redness corrupted in· water, away from it, •
often you haye the redness purified, then will it associate
' 'iz. become fixed, and_ tinged, in which station it will rest f()r
ever. Return the coal, being extinct in its life, to·the water,
in the thirty days I note to thee, so will you have a crowned
.king, t'e&ting 11pon the fountain or well; but drawing it frOm. the
nurjpigment, and wanting the humour or moisture: now have I
made the hearts of the attentive, who hope in thee,- glad, and
their eyes beholdin!('thee, in the hope of that which .tbou pos-
sesS<'st ? Now the water was first in the air, then in the earth-;
restore thou it then, to the superior places, through ita on
mcanden; or passages, and (not foolishly Or indiscreetly} change
or alter it: and then to the former spit·it gathered in its rednC$S,
you must carefully and leisurely join it. · K11ow thou my.
that the tat of our earth is sulphur; that sulphur is auripigrneat,
sirctz, or colcothar, of which auripigment, sulphurs;. and sueil
·like, some are more vile or mean than others, in which there is
a difference or diversity. Of this kind also is the fat of
substances; to wit, of hair, nails, hoofs, and sulphur ltseU;
oil of Peter' arid the brain or marrow, whieh is auripigntent.
, .Of the same kind also is the cats ot• li:Qns ·claw, which is siret&: .
.the fat of the white bodies, and the tat of the two oriental &I!-
.gent vives, which sulphurs are caught hol<l of; .and retained by ,.
the bodies, I &ny more, that this solphur does tinge and fix.·;
and is contained and 'held by the conjunctions of the tincturee.
Fats also tinge, but withal they·fly away, in the body. ·which is
·contained, which is a conjunction ·of fugitives only with 8Jllphu1'8
and aluminous bodies, which alao. contain and hold the fugitive
.matter.
The order, method, management and disposition of
sought after by the philosophers, is but.one, in our ' NQIW
. this, in the hens -egg, is in no wise to .be found. But, lest· ao.
. much·of the divine wisd<Jtn, as is seen in a hens.egg, should not
be distinguished ; we make ·in imitation theroof, _
a composition
.
from the four elements, jointly ·fitted and compacted together.
Now in a hens egg, there is the greatest help that may be, for
herein is a nearness of the· matters in their D8tl.'l'eS; a spiritu• .
:a,lity,.and .joining together of.the: and
•&he rarih walth u nature• .. The son ·wlum, the
. -
o1git1zed by Coogle
370 Alchcmitl!l TrtlJtiSts,
sulphun which are eon•enient or fit for our work, arc they
ecelestial or terrestrial, bcaTcnly or t'nrthly? To whoJn Hcrmrs
answers: aome of them are hcu,·enlv, anc.l some ore from the
earth. . The son saith, tilther, I titink the heart in the superiors
to prenote heaven; iu the inferiors, the earth. To ,,flom Hermes
saith: it is lMit so, the mn:teuline truly is the heaven of the
minine: und the feminine the earth of the masculine. The son
saith, fntfler, which of allt'Se is more wortlty, one than another,
whether is tlae heaven or the earth l The father aas.,.ers: both
tllc help ofdoe another; but a n)(.'()ium is prop011ec.lby prc-
oeepts. But.if tllou shalt say, wisdom o! the wise man
rnlc or command anaong ail mani&nd; to tin» Her1nes-: the
·different or·ordinM'y things nre better with them, because evel'y
nature delight!!, or &e!liroes to lle joined ia llOCiety with its own
kind. We find enn in wisdom tltat equal are ·
joined together. The liOD S(lith; but wl1at is the main among
them? 1'o whom arndnnswers; to every tiling in JJature,
there nre three things frOift two. l. Tbe 2. The
middle. s. The end, viz. F'ir&t, che pi'C)fi.table and necessary
:watet•. Secondly, the fitt or oil. .'flainUy, tbe heces, or eat1.h,
which remain5 But the drn8on dwells in, or inbabiu in
·all these And his boOties are the darkness nnd blackncse.
.jn them; und bytltem he aseends into tlre air, whicb is their
heaveR: bnt wLile t'Le fume or vapour r.
emnins in \hem, they
are not trerfH!tuel, pcPmannnt, remaining or fixed. Take bat
, away the fume or ,·apor from the water; nnd the blackness from.
·the fat ot '!ofpnur, and . fl'Om the treces : u.nd b1
licJb, you shnn Pf>iie68 a trivalphant git!, even thac il\ aud by
whiclr the poll'em»n live. . .
· Nb>tv the temperate fat or sulph•r wlfich is tlte fire, is tlie
medium or middle natiKe, betwees the nces and the water, and
-the throogl• seld'Cilel' of she water : t)le tats are eullcd
·mr betweeu fire, oil, aad snlphgr, there is so little difference,
&bttt lllen: is a propinflJlity, or nearness; because as the
burn, 10 also does the sulphur. All tlte 'ladsdom of the world is
·eomprehonlkd within tltis, leamiAg the. art is placed ju_these
wonderful hiddea elemenls, which • does obtain, nnisk or com-
·-pleat. ·. It behotes him who would be introduc:ed into
this our 'hidde.n wis&m, to quit himself from the ilsurpation of
.tee, to be juit and of & . pro&lud reason, and ready at
.hand to help mankind : of • terene asd eountellance,
·. eottt'tOObs in his cotm!ttatioa to others ; nnd to himself n faithful
. of tile o.rcm&1Dlla, be_.g once revcale4 to .him. And thi•
· know, that except you know hw te lliortifY and genera-
. tinn, "' ViYifY tbe.spirit, tn cfeaftle, and intro4luce Jigli4 how
' things figltt 11nd contend Otle' wida ao&her, are colourless
· ahd treed fMm their or·epots and like as
ftoom \llaclmea aad darkn981t Y'* lnow Dbr can. you
·;pedOnn. auy thing. But you 1Da.7 iha a1Ua pat
·o1git1zed by Coogle
Het·mcs TrimegWu1. 871
arcanum is a1\)t.tter great· worth, thnt C\'_
en lcfngs them•
Khnll renernt<.• it; the whid1 secrets, it behoves us to keep
do11C', anti to hide them from every protilne and worthlt>Ss. person·
.
l!uocrstund '31so that our atone is conjoined with, and composed
of many tllingH, of' vnl'iou.- und of' f()UI' dements; whidt
it bcho,·es us to dh·ide and cut in pieces, at1d to di'iioint them·;
am! partly t<'.l mortify the nntl!re in the same, which is in it ·
And also to keep t;;t/c the wnter a:nd the tire dwelling therdnj
which dot'S contnin its own water', dfawn from the thor elcnu>ntll
·and their waters; this is not wntt•r in its furm, but lire, rontnin•
in a strong and pure \'CSiel, the ascending waters ; lt'!!t the
spn•its away from the bodies, fhr ·by thiK mcnns ure
they made tmgmg nnd permanant, or fixed. 0 bk'S!K'd water·
in the tocm of which clement thou dissoh'Cst! Now it he·
hoves us, widt tbis watery soul, to posses!! n sulphnroQs form;
nnd to mix ot• join the same with out· vinegar. :For when by the
powct· of the water, the compositum also is you hn\'e
the key of the restoration; then death and blackqess fly away,
and wisdom proceeds- on to the finishing of the work. · ·
III. Now know my son, that the philosophtrs chain up (the
matter) with aetrong du1.in, or bond, when they·mnke it to con..
tend with the tire: beenuse the spirits in the wnsliod Qoiics,
desire to dwell therein, and to rejoice tlterc. In these habitn•
tions, they vivifY themselves, and dwell therein, nnd the bodicl
hold, or coatni11 them, nor from them cnn they be separated.·
Then the clements are reviYed, ·and the eompositum, or
compounded bodies nrc tinged and altered, and by wonderful
operations,. they are made permanent, or fixed, as the philoso;..
phcr saith. 0 beautiful and permanent, or fixed water, the
formator of the royal elements, who having obtaiQed (with thy
brethren joined wit}J n moderate government) the tincture, hast
found a place of rest. Our stone is a moSt pretious .thing, yet
cMt forth upon the dunghill. It is moat dear and \•nlual>le, yet
vile and _
the most vile ; (i. e. ·fOund among the most vile things).
Because it behoves us to kill two argent vive's together, nnd yet
to value, prize, and esteem them, viz. the argent vivo of auri-
pigmen.t, and the oriental argent vive magnesia·. 0 nature,
the greatest, dte crentot of natures, which makest, containeat,
and seperatest natures in a middle principle t Our stone comes
with ligl¢, and with light it is generated; ·and then it generates
or brinJ;fforth the black clouds or darkness_which is the mother
of all tliings. · · ·· ·
But ll'ben we conjoin the crowned king to our red daughter,
and ip a gentle fire; not yet too great or hurtful, she docs con-
ceive, and will bring forth n faithful and excellent son ; which
she does feed with a little bent, attd nourishes the permanant or
fixed matter, making it to abide even the greatest tire. But
when you sen4 forth the fire upon the len\·es or enfoldings of the
·sulphur, the boundary of hearts does enter in aboYe it, is washed
o'9'''zed by Coogle
•4lchemical '. Treatises.
in the same,· and hi!t putrefied and stinking matter is extracted;
#len be is altered or change<l, and his tincture by .the help of
the fire remains roo as flesh. But our son the begotten king,
doth take his tincture from the fire; and death, and the sea, and
· darkness fly away from him. The dragon flies from the beams
of the .&un, who observes the holes or passages, where they
enter jn; .and our dead son lives. The kiug comes. fmm the
fire, and rejoices with hii wifl·, .laying open the hidden things;
obsc1.1red virgins miJk. Now the son vivified, or made to
live, is made a warrior of the fire, and in his
tinctures; for the son has got the having also the root
of the ml!tter in him. Come ye sons of wisdom, and rejoice;
be ye glad and exceeding joyful t.ogcther; i(>r death has received
jts consurpmation, and the son does reign.. h_e .is invested with
his. red garment, and the scarlet colour is put on•
.IV. Now understand that this stone cries out, nourish and
me, and I will reward .you; give to me mine, that
which is my own, and I will bountifully recompcnce you. My
sol, and my beam» are m<>l>t inward, ami secretly in me: my
pwn luna also, is my light, exceeding every light; and my good
thh1gs are better .than aiJ other good things. I gi\·e largely an<!
plentifully: I rewanl the uuderstanding with joy am\ gladness,
with delight, wifh riches and bonvur and glory: they that
teek afi.er .me, l give them opportunities, to know a.pd und<:r-
staud, anp to divine thiugs. Now know that whicl} the
philosophers hidden aqd pbscured is written with seven
letters. f\lpha and Yda, the two :.and sol io like mnnne1·
follows the book (of,nnture) notwithstan4_ing, if you arc willing,
pr dominion yo4 must watch the
motionsof art, to join Sl?fl to the _
.dayghter of tpe water,
is J11pitcr 1 this is a hidden secret. unde1·stand,
lc,t us thc11 p,'>e our : consider ,wqat l written ·with
most acc.urate investigati<?n,: .aii<_
l;. tJJe part
have demonstrated t-<? you. mutter l k.now to pe
011ly one .thing•. ..But is iql}at. :\lllderitnpcl,; th,e. in-
. ;md inqpires into the of this ? It i&
not fmm man, nor fp.)m. any, Jike•. Of a. l)ln .to
ft·om ox or If anyJ,vjng wtth.
one of another $pecies, .the thing which i$
J>rought forth. Now Venus.saitb, l beget not is the
<Jarkness of my nature; and up)ess my metal..he p,:yed, all
dies would cleave unto me; because I shoulu liquids;
I oul;, or wipe away their and· &P,d.I .e¥-
;ract sqbstance: 'f!Otbing tpefefore be*r anq
brother, being . _ . : . ..
_
But the king, and lord, or to the .witnesses bis
bt:.ethren I am crowned, and adorned with a
l am cloathcd with the royal garment, and I h1·ing joy and glndo:>
()f tlcrrt! bein9 bl _
l m1
oi9itozed by Coogle
1/ermes Trismegilltus.
to lay hold of, nnd to rest within tlte ·arms and l)reast,
(i. e. the body or womb) of my mother, and to lay hold and
fitstcn upon llCt' substance : making that which is visible to
invisible, ami the hidden mutter to appear:_... for every thing
which the philosophers hn,•e .vniled or obscured, is generated by
us. Understand these wonls, keep them, meditate upon them,.
_
and nftel' nothing else: man in the beginning is gene-
J"att.>tl of _
nature, whose bowels or inwards are fleshy; and not
from any thing else. Upon these words meditate; and reject
. what is superfluous {to the work). From thence saith the philo-
sopbet· Botri is from the yellow or citrine, which is ex-
tracted out or the red root, und ti·om nothing else; which if it
shall be citriue, thou hast sought it at the mouth of wisdom, it
1vas not obtainc<J by thy care or industry: you need not study to
or change trom the redness : see I have not limited
or circumscribed you under darkness; I have made almost all
things plain .toyou. Burn the 'booy of laton or brass with a
very gr.cat fire, and it will give yon gratis what you desire; it
,will stain,. dye,, pnd tinge, as much ns you canwish it, that
withglot;y tllid An.d see thnt you make. that which
is fugitive apd volati!t', or flying away, that it may not fly, by
the means of.tliat which flies t;1ot. And that which rests or re-
. mains upoij a strong-fire (is and. is also a strong fire itself;
and that wf1ich the.Ju:nt of or boilii1g fire is corrupte4,
or destroyed, or· made. 'to is. cambar. And know ye that
.our res, brass or laton, is gold, :which is the art of the perms.·
nant or fixed wuter; and the c;oloratioti of its tincture and black.-
.ness, is then or · 4nto redness. I confess that
the. help of. I spoken nothing but the truth :
that whlch .1s destroye'd must be restored and renewed, and from
.thence corl:uption. is seen io the .nllltter to be renovated, and from
thence the renovation appears: and on .both or 11ide, it is
the &f art. . ' . '. . · · .
· My son,. that which is porn of the crow is the beginning
.of this art. Set; here, how I have. ogscured the mattet· spoken
·of to you, b,y a. kind of drcumlocution; and I have deprived
you of seeing the .light (by giving you too much light:) and
·1. This disso}vpd, 2. This joined, 3. This nearest and longest,
I have named to you. Roast them therefore, then loil them in
that which pr{)cceds from the horse belly, for 7, 14, or
days; that it mny eat its own wings, and kill or destroy itselfi
This done, let it.'be put in petta panni, and in the fire of a fur-
nace, whjch qiligently lute and take care of, that none of tho
. spjrit may gQ forth: and observe, that the times of the earth are
in the water; which let be as loug as you put the same up upon
it. The matter then being melted or dissolved and burnt, take
.. the brain thereof, aml grind it in most sharp vinegar, or childrens
nrine, till it be obscured o1· hid: this done; it does live in pu•
trcfaction. The dark clouds will in it, before it is kilk-cl ; let
o1git1zed by Coogle
374 AlcTwnical T1·eatises.
t11em be converted into ·its own body; and this to be reitcratoo
as I have described : let it be killed as uforesaid, and then
it does live. In the lite and death thereof the spirits work : for
as it is killed by taking away of the spirit; so that being restored,
it is again made alive, and rejoices therein. But coming to this,
that which ye seek by aftirmat.ion, ye shall see : I declare also to
you the signs of joy and rejoicing, even that thing which does
fix its body. Now these things our ancestors gave us only in
figures and types, how they attained to the knowledge of tl1is
secret; but behold, they are dead : I have now opened tl1e
riddle, I have demonstrated the proposition so much desired, so
much aimed at: I have opened the book (of secrets) to thq
skilful and learned; yet I have also a little concealed the bidden
mystery. I have kept the things (which ought to be put a part)
within their own botlllds :1 I conjoined the various and.divcra
6gures and forms (of its appearance in the operation) and I have ·
confederated or jotried together {with them) the r.pirit. Receive
you this as the git't of God. ·
VI. It behoves you therefore to give thanks to God, who bas
lnrgely gh·en (of his bounty) to nll the wise; who delivers us out
Qf the snares and clutches of and poverty. · I am proved
and tried with ihe fulness of his riches and goodness ; with his
probable miracles; and I humbly pray to God, that I
l mny pass-the whole course of my l!t'e, so as I may attam
Take then from thence the fats or sulphurous matter, which we
take from suets, grease, hair, · tragacanth, and
·bones, which things are written in the books of the ancients•
.But the·fats which contain the tinctures, which coagulate the
:fugitive, and set forth, or, adorn sulphurs, it behoves us to
,exp.lkate their disposition (mote fully hereafter). And to unveil
_
the figure or form, from all other fats or sulphur, (which .is the ·
·hidden nnd bul'ied fat or sulphur) which is seen in no disposition,
,hut dwells in its own body, as fire or heat in trees aml stones,
:'M·hich the most.subtle art and ingenuity it us ex-
;tract w1thout burnmg. And know that the heaven ts to beJOtncd
·in a mean with· the earth: but the figure ..is t() be in a middle
nature, between the heaven IU1d the eat"th, whiCh thing is our
.lnttcr. Now in the first place of all, is the which ·g<•es
fl,rth !\"om this mir s!onc: the second is : but the thh·d is
m n mean, wluch ts more noble than the water and the
ffl!ccs. Aud iu these three nre the vapors, the blackness, and
the death. lt behoves us therefore to chase or drive away, and
expel the super-existent fume or vapor, from the water; the
blackn<'!'lS fwm the fat; and the death from the freces' and this
hy dissoluti<m ; by which means we attain to the knowledge of
the greatest philosophy, nnd the sublime secrets o( all secrets.
VU. arc sc;ven bodies, of which, the first is
the most perfect, the ktng and the head of them : which tbe
water cannot alter, nor the earth corrupt, nor· ftrc devastate;
01git1zed by Coogle
lltnnes Tt•ismegistus. ·. ·375
bccau!!e its complexion is temperate, or in 4 menit ; nnd its na•
in '-'Old, moisture, or d!J":'e&A ; not
1s any th1t1g that JS lh 1t superfluous. ·Thct·efore the philosopheR
bear up, nnd. magnify themselves in it, that such gold
in·bodies is like the sun among the stars, 1nost ltght and splendid.
And as by the power of God, every vegetable, and all the fruits
of the earth are perfected; so by the same power, the gold, and
(the seed thereof) which contains nil these seven bodies, makea
them to spring to be ripened, and brought to perfection, and
without whicn this work can in no wise be performed. And like
as paste or dough is impossible to be fermented, or !evened with•
out Ieven ; so is it in tllis without the proper ferment, you
.:an do nothing: when you sublime the bodies, and purify them
separating the filthiness and uncleanness from them, or from the
hces, you must conjoin and mix them ·together, and put in the
ferment, making up the earth with the water. And you mud
decoct and digest till ixir, the ferment, makes the alteration or
change, like as Ieven does in paste. Meditate upon this, and
1ee whether the ferment to this compositum, does make orchange
it from its former nature to another thing. Consider ftl80 th&t
there is no leYen or ferment but from the paste itself. It is also
to be noted, that the ferment does whiten the confection or com•
positum ; amd forbids or hinders the burning: It contains, holds,
or fixes the tincture, so that it cannot fly awny, and rejoices the
bodies, and makes them mutually tojoin, and to enter one into
another. .And this is the key of the philosophers, and the end
of all their works : and by this science tl1e bodies are meliorated,
and restored: and the work of them (Deo annuente) is performed
and perfected. .
But by and an ill opinion of the matter, the ope-
rations may be spoiled and destroyed; as in a mass of levened
paste: or milk turned with runnet for cheese; and musk among
aromatics. 'fhe certnin colour of the g<.>lden matter for the rea,
and the nature thereof i-; not sweetness, therefore of them we
make sericum, which is ixir, (the ferment:) and of them we
1nake enamel, .of which we have written. And with the kings
seal we have tinged the and in that have put or placed
the colour of l1eaven, wh1ch augments the sight of them, who
can already in some measure see. Gold therefore is the most pre--
cious stone without spots, also temperate, which neither fire, rior
air, nor water, nor earth, is able to corrupt or destroy, the uni-
versal ferment, rectifying all things, in a middle or temperate
composition, which is of a yellow, or true citrine colour. · The
gold of the wise men, boiled and well digested, with a fiery
water.makes ixir. For the of the wise men is more weighty
or heavy than lead, which m a temperate composition, is the
ferment of ixir : and contrariwise, in a distemperatc composition;
is the distemperature, or l}urt of the whole or matter. · For
the work is firat made from the vegetable: scconcily from · the
o1git1zed by Coogle
378 .Aichtmlcal Treati:res.
animal, {n a lien. egg; in "'bith is the greatest nssistnncc, and
the constanc.:y of the elements. And gold is our Parth; of all
which, ·we make which is our tcrment, or ixir. .
say, if you conserve a third part ofyout camels, (l·iz.
of the 'SWift or volatile matter, or that which mu!t bear tlte bt11·· ·
then1) and .consume the remaining two thirds, you have attained
to tM thing desired ; you have perfeetcd the work. . In like man-
.JJer you must be ot your argent vive; for the black
·matter does whiten the .flesh, :md the work is perfected·by the
fire of the wise. ·And tlte '}'ork is to be performed by a spiritual
water, in which the blackness is washctl away ; and by that in.o
strument, in which the fomtdation of the uork is laid, and in
that time and moment, in which the clouds appear. ·Now that
water, in or by which the blackness is washed away, is the
or moisture of the sun, and children:;' urine, (i. c. the virgins
water.) The thing·whichl tell y«)U iuufficient foryou to know. In
like manner, tnkc the water·of the water, (mercury of mercury,)
· and with it cleanse and purify the wind, fume, or vapour, nnd
abolish the blackness. Understand what this signifies, and
joice therein. .Also in the same mnnlHr, take the blackness and
conjoin it; then hnva respect to the white, nud conjoin the red ;
.o will you go through the tbing desired, and come .to the end
of the work. It is ulso to be noted, that it is the fire-stone which
govern1 the matter or work, by the good. pleastlre of God:
boil it therefore with a gentle fire, night and day, the water
should be separated from ·it ; even till it becoo1es of ti ·
. golden:
·colom· : understand well what I say. Tbat,nlso which eongeals,
does dissolve; and that which docs wbiteti, W.cs·inlike·manner
make red. · lltave made plafn to you the nearest ·wlly, that·you'
may be easy and : understand therefore ' these things,
and meditate upon them ; and you shall certainly attain ·· tlO the·
perfection of the work. It is also to be noted, that as sel is
among the stars ; so is gold among the other metnlli bodies: ·
fOr as the light of the sun, is joined to the lights, and contains:
the fruit ·of this operation ; so in .like manner gold :· medit:\t&•
upon these words, :and by the permission of God you may W··
it out. · ·,,
· Hermes moreover saith, lte·thnt outwardly tnkes in this medi-:-'
cine,·it kills him: but he that inwm·dly drinks·it in, it maJics,bim
lo live and rejoice. Understand ·what this means. And·as- lOr
this cause sake, tl1is water is SAid to be divine; so it is snid·1o .M
the greatest }loison : ·and it is ·preferred before all . 'other
by so much ns that withc;mt it nothing of the·:work cari oo tlowe.
lt is also called divine, fot· that it cannot be mixed or johted ·
with any filth or defiled tl1ing : and this water of our stone pu..:
rifil.'s and cleanses ·the natures · of the- metals, and wasltea18\'i!ay
their defredations or ·defilemt'llts. ··And· as sol acts 11}><Jll bodies_ :
so also does this water npoa the philQsophic Btone :. yea, it.pene-:
... . . ' - . . ;
..._, .· • ···.
•< ... ' ' !
o1git1zed by Coogle
Hermes· Tt·lsmeglstus. 877
and sin\s througli it, and is COtlfltant, fiJted; and
This indeed is in sol; but it is to be understood that
work may be made through all the seven planers: as first from
saturn, then from Jupiter, mars, venus, mercury, from:
luna. The first ts the government of saturn; to wtt, to cause
sol to putref)', or bring the body to putt·efaction, which is done
in the spnce· of forty dnys and nights, The second is the go.
verument of jupiter, which is to grind or break the matter, and
in twelve days and nights to imbue or moisten it, which is called.
the regiment of tin. The third is the government of mars,.
which is to induce death or blackness, or to separate the· spirit
!rom the body, by which it is said to be.changed. -The fourth.
ls the government of sol, which is to work away the
and poison ; and is indeed to make white. The fifth is the go-
vernme!lt of venus, which is to join the moist to the dry, and.
the hot to the cold, and to unite them together in one; this is the.
dominion of brass or copper, (or tl1e making .of the lJlatter of
a chanl{eable yellow)• . The sixth is the government of mercury;
which Js to bum, and is called the dominion of argent vive..
The sevel)th ie the government of luna, which- is 'to decoct or
boil, and make ho.t, and ·so to perfect the matter, (with the fixed.
citrine tincture) in twenty-five days: and .this is the dominion of
&ilver. See here, I have gone with you through the \Vhole work;
take heed therefore lest you err. . . . . . . . .. ..
And know that the white bQdy is made. with the
and its ferment is that which you already know: .whiten there-.
fore t'-e.·body, and understand what I say•.· Also in man- ·
ner you are to note; the sought after, flus not its like ·
or equal in the whole earth• . It is both.outwardly arid inwardly ·
of a citrine colour; but wlien it is or changed, :
it is made a bodydark and black, )jkc bnp.lt .coals. No\V
colour of the spirit taJ<en from .· it is ·\Vhite, and dle- sub&tnnce..
thereof is liquid as water; bl,lt tbc colour of the soul is .
But tbe.soul and the spirit thereof is.•·eturned t.o,it again,
and it doth live rejoice, and its light IU14 glory returns ·
again; and you shall ·see it and triwnph .
: and·that .·
which 'Was even now shall have conquered death, .and then
it shall live, ·and arise from the .d.ead, arid live as. it were for ev¢r/
Happy and.blessed therefore is he in whQSe,power the.dispesition'
of this matter is, wbo kills ·an4 ..alive, and is ,
over aU for ever. . I therefoJ;"e vise. you, not .to dQ ,any thing ·
in this w.;ork,1 tiU'you get.ar1 thereof:· for if you .
be ignorant void oi true you will err in .
sqever you·wm wliollt,labour in vain, and yollJi l"ork';
willpe.,h•.' Sq that thui in ·your opeJ'!ltion, yc)4)
resen
.. · tlyyour
. ·instructofS(
.th.e phil.oeophen) and think tbat :
ot: taught ypu wropg.,
, whea.'it is. onlv.your .ig- .
and not · AAltir 1'bi• .. ·
bow and -understand,.that'tlie aay;'is' D&Uvit1.or brln&inc .
....
o1git1zed by Coogle
S78 .Alclumicnl Treatist6.
.... .
forth of tl1.e light; but the tlight, .the nativity or bringing forth
<>f th·e darkness. Sol, nlso is the light of the day; and luna the
lig'ht of the night; which God creAted to govern tl1e world.
luna does receive her. of the sun by combustion, .
l!i cltlaf«.l or therewtth: and by so mucft as she.
of the sun, or cloes eontnin in her, of his light..; by
ib much dbes the nature of sot bear rule over the nature of hma.
lf therefore you contemplate what I say, and npon niy
you will I ha•e spoken 'the trnth; and yot'1 \viii
ur1derstunll the stgmficatwn, of all_that 1 'have said, and tlte de-
ruonstrntiori of the whole matter•. Know then, ·that the spirit;
is :enfolded or Circumscribed, within its marble bous-e or
thet<'forc the passages that the dcnd spirit_
may go out.
be tnAt fi>rih from ditr bOdies: then tt will become beautiful,.
\flrich is drily a workor un<fedakirig of wisdom. Sow therefore
0 Gbd, thy wisdom in our hearts, and out the corrupt
JniJ?Ciples wliicJ\ lddge therein, and lead tis in the way of .thy
mtints, bJ our spitits and .souls may be purified. Thou
aM dili_
rilpott!nt, 0 Lord God Almighty, .and c:anst do whatever
thoif pleasest. . . . .· .. · . . .
· There i!f which fs to be womlcrefl at, viZ. a{ier wl!at
m:ihtler carmine; to wit, grana nostra, doth, ot ,dye 'si,llc;
. .and tinges tt¥.
after what mantret ltttfur, to wit, our vcrml!Ion doth t1nge v(!stcm
is }:2nrrary natt1re, and not .f>t
thtng3. F'or It'll! not JJatoral '->r any ihi:ng to tutge oUie:t
not agreeable.to their natures: if thetefore you.put into
y6hl' ootnposition, red·gold,you shall ll!'ld _iti
and petfectred: and ifyou put ihtoit whtte·gold; the most t>assive
red wiJl. br g<>. is indeed
thmg, but what Is s•wlate to, or hke tt&el.t: l. testey.
tM living God, maker of heaven and
atone:which .r ha:ve described, you pei:Ittefiant C?f
;are yon kept from it by the earth or t11e $ea,, Cir, ·
matter. ·Keep then your congealed inail)·p;l-ta
wJrich. nre last because .bf its ' Also the.lhoonUu'tt :th..
w1iicb J;hadc cr
.ies .olit., :i am the
w11He; and.the white of the .black; I speak the '.;
J lyt:! lthbw,, Othat the root Qf the· mattet' .•;f-
the crow flyil'ig.witbout in the hW'JiJaclt-'bf'
night;:and in the ofthe d'ay.:
.•ririt: froin ··i.tll .sa.IY..the ,c<il6tp-h1cr or· Jli•
.it's . ·,or)irxtn· .. r
toe hqmd · al}q lCsWt. ..
h!ennihg:ofthe. ij
o(it ana.. ia
I
afimQ1g. ·.Yoll a'tso *11\t•.•
.frq!n'·lig<ljea.fif Y.Qll·ti\it .me {6r ..
<,t ·· 4 \.,,.,.L,4..U ..:. .. d :.; . ... 1.;. - .. .: tr..l.t h .... ...
,.;; ..
o1git1zed by Coogle
. ., ( ....
Hermes Trismegistus.
ju.st. or t;·ue you l?ut ir
mistake the proportion, must add or.dim¥Jisb, accord.-
mg you see it tends to the .m,nendation or perfor1ning of thj'
work, lest a deluge should come and overflow aU, c.lr.o.wniug
;cgions, and overturning tuc tr<:es by the roots. And
the ·matter be unknown, yc.t thcliEl things, how, or nil'#"
what m311ner these two colours l,lr.e or diversifiodp
by their Vl.\i)ours: look into the sweetness of sugar, .which .is oue
kmd of sweet juice; and into the sweetness of which
yet more intense or inward. Except you make the bodies spi..
ritual and impalpable, you know nut how to .ixir, or
pr o.cecd on in the ·work ; nor .how the three matters or
principles, fight one 80'ainst another; and ho..,i .they tiul
each in their turns, to one another, tillof t;w.o being lett;
!J.RC, ooly Be careful also, how .you increase your
(!hough it is not .to be very small_whun you dry up the w:ncr)
and take heed Lhat you burn not the if
vessel breaks, it will be a mighty .or1for.ce. And
!Jnless the matters of tbe inimical one
or contend a)1.d fight with, and strive _
to destroy one
.shall never attain to the thing you seek after. If yo1.1.
calx with nuripigment, and .not. in a mean or due prqporti<m,
the splendo.ur and glOI'y.of t.he oper.ation wiU not &ucceed; but
jf you me<fium, the eftec.t will
Now that it is our water, wbich extracts hidden
ture. Behold the example and .understand it; if yo,u ha:ve
brought the body into ashes, you have operated rightly• And
the blood (which is in the water) of tlie animated.
body, ear,th of,the wise, .to wit, •
the or eod,au:ing
· · . .
· Now that which is dead, ought vivifY or
J.llake alive; and that which is sick, which rto be c1,1r_ed :.
it is the white which is to be rubified; the black wnich is to be.
purified{w.d the cold which is to be made hot. Itis God.him-:
fielf who doe$ atld inspire or give life, and replenishes.
nature with' his' p<)wer, that it u1jght follow and imitate pjs wjs--
dom, and act as an inStrument subservient to him. Iron is our
gold; an,d brass or copper t.ioctl,ll"e; vive iS our_
glory; tin is our silver; is our whiteness; and
is redness.· FJ."om it appears necessary, that
we should have a body bodies; a w8t.er .subliming
"Yater. Our stone is of is made offife;·
and i11 converted into tbe ·saJP.e . 4nd 1f you would walk .
in the tr!Je way, J.OIJ: must it in or
fo.r our stone) 1
_
t IS that wh1ch 1s Iudden wJth1.11,
doe.s make tire whi'te i.jUld the thing which makes
white, mlll!:es me al90 red. Conceal this thing from men,
like as a word which is yet in mouth, which .no man under-
stands; 'afld as the light; or sight, which is in thine eye:
o1git1zed by Coogle·
.Alchtmic.al Treat/tits.
·1 will not to thee Jest by thy words thou
conveyest·my breath-to another; to thine own damage: this is
the caution 'l giva thee. .Now know that this our work, is made
of two figures the one of which .wants the white rust, and the
other the rust. Our matters also are scarsed through
sieves or searscs, made of pure or dean rinds, arid a most blessed
wood. .You are also to tukc notice, that the fire-stone of the
philosophers sought after, wants extcntion, but it hns qu.antity.
It behon'll you the.refur,c, to support and nourish it on every
· side, .and to contialue it as in the. middle. You must nlso conjoin
the body with the soul, beating and grinding it in the sun, and
. imbuing it with the stone ; then ·puttiug it the fire, so. long
· till nll its stains and defilements are tnken away ; kt it be· a
gentle fire tor ahout se·;en hours space ; thus will you get
''hkh wi11 multe you.to live. I aho tell you, that its habitation
. ur dwelling place, is posited in the bowels of the earth, for
without earth it cnnnot ·be p('rfected: also, its habitation is po-
in the .bowels of the fire, .nor without fire can it be per.,.
fccted, which is the perfection of our art. Again, except you
.mix with the white the· red, and presently bring ·or reduce the
same into a perfect wnter, it will tinge nothing; for it ne,·er
tinges any thmg red, but that which is white : und · while the
w?t·k is now perti:•cting,. to. the of the sun, and it;
·wtH be compleated r£>gJmme rrun·mo, as we have already <.leclared :
and br this conjunction above, your stone will nttain its Leauty
Jind gtory. · Thus a·dry fire which an air
or vapour, which fixes and c}rains the volatile matter, \>inding
· the fugitive in fetters; nnd also whirens, expelling,the blackness,
from bodies; 11.nd a fixed also receiving th.e tincture. · . ·
Wash your mercury wtth the water of the sea, till you have
•
, ..taken.. .away from it all blackness. so.will you your
work to perfection, in-which rejoice. If you bow a.
resurrccHon I• accomplished, i. e. ·how the living (principle. or
conm;fprth from the dead (matter or &ubstance) how
is made apparent which wns hidden, and how strength is drawl)
furth ; you be ignorant how complea(
perf<'Ct th1s "ork. How maQJfcst and cleur are the word!l.
of the wise, yet.so. nk the iutenutl life prindpal is still hid..
den ; you uudcrst:uul them .not pctfectly by their ex)n·essions.
Two bodies equally tuke't from . the ea!-th, grind, in the oil of
the decocted lnatter,. und in the ·n1ilk ·of the white volatile:
•· .now mighty and wonderlul ate· thll,powers apd force of these
bodies, ·which are .frccly·beato.wro upon v<ni; tllrotigh thili whole
scie!lce, .which. · · 41long a¥ e.n-
durmg hfe. · 1 nke by force · the mo$t ntte115e froll.\
'"benet> mnst draw forth the tternnl (perpetual or fixed). life .
of the stone, till your stone is.i:ongealcd, and its dulness is
; so>:will you· accomplish the·llfe thcrel)f sought afte·r.
Ghc thert·forc of this life su11icicntly to .J·our it will
o1git1zed by c ·oogle
Hermes Trimrgtstfll. Ml
mortifY it (ur bring 'it putrefaction} but replayolll' earth; and
it shall make it to live (spt:ing, bud, grow, germinate.) Plant
this tree upon your stone,· that.it may not be in·danger of the
violence of winds, that the volatile influences.or bird of heaven;
may fall uP<>n it, and by virtue thereof, its brancltes may bring
forth much fruit ; from thence wisdom does arise. Take tbit
volatilebird, eut off its he(ld with a fiery sword, then strip ·it
of its featlu?rs or wings, UDdo its ·joints, and boil it upon coals,
till it is inade, or become!J of one only colour. Then put th•
venom, ru· poison to it, so much as is enough to bury or cover
it; govern it now with a gentle fire,. till your matter is mortified
or putrefied ; which done, grind it with white water, aDC:l ma-
nage it rightly. .For we bought two.- (crows) and we put
them into a paropsidem, or crucible (or eupel) which we had by
us, and eggs or silver gobbets came out, white'as ealt, theae
· we tinged with our saffron : of them we sold two h11n•
dred with which we.have been made rich, and our trea-
tmree are And whoaoever you shaU imbue or fill
with the powers thereof, ·should tlley.be hlU't with the poison of
vipers, or tlte malignity of ·brass or they shall be itt
no danger; for that quickens and rev1ves the dead, and kills·
the living: it detltroys and re&tc.>res again; it. casts down that
which is elevated ajld·lift. up; and. elevates·that whieh is abjected
and cast and giJea you a ·dominion over. the heavens of
the earth. Now you must note, that there are two stones ofthe
. folJnd in the shore& of tbe riven, in the1Q'ms. of the moun-
tnins, ·in .the bow.els of the .floods, and in the back .porta of
king's honse, which by instruction and prudent management
may be brought male and female. By cOn--
joined and made complex (or perfectly united into oae consi-·
milar substance) you will be .made wiser {you will see the r.eaacm
of the operation, and the end of the work.) Bleued God, how
great and how wonderful a is this. . ·
A .certain philosopher .arcamed; that the messenger :
came to certain gOuty, man, and tbe man deaired that be might .
go ·with him; to whotJ1 .the messenger anawered, since thou hast
tl1e gout, how canst thou go with me, for thou not walk.
To whom the gouty.man answered, thou knoweat that in the
.· root of this ·mountain, 1here is a certain' tabernacle, bear nte
.t}Jen thither, t.ht're .the burthen,. so shall I be presently ·
freed ·or delivered .from my gout. Then said be to me; thou
not able to touch the toot but.going back, .he took him
llp.and placed him in the tabernatle, the foot of which, the ,
messenger said, ·he was not abJe ·to .touch.: and waking from
his .dream, he saw nothing. .. Behold the similitude. Another
also saw in a dream, wherein it was .said, if any one.truly should
down by the way, and should.ask you, whether you would
think fit to do this thipg, would you do it? He answered, I
the .other said, tha' should lie or generate with his
o,g;t,zedbyGoogle ·
tnother ldidcJle (gil tbt! earth ; .then he no.:.
Jhing. 1
G6119ider welt this si!!Jilitllde. . · · · 1 • • · · · · • _· <
· ·But ·1eadihg• yot:t tit •tbe ·knowledge of philosophy, and ex•
posing· tl1e thereof, in a philosophic manner,
alwl'!ld :make it :the derision and moclrery ·of women, and·
plq of dlildren. · ·1'nke also the fresh ·bark or rind, jh the
Jilontmtt r iii·wltreh you·shall, · another manner, extract t1.le
punter or thing iu title· place.Where it is generated ; a.nd
put it.Dlto a cucurblt, .ann· it. And that which is ot
ahaU obe sepat·ate it; i,r· it is ·the vinegar of the philo::
·"'Phcr:s; and . their sapieiice' e. their salt.)' Then ·take this
vi.Degnr; •and gl' potlr ·it upon· another cortex,
011: saperlicft> of the );ea; and put it 'into a glass vesica, in whic.h
P.Ut so: llltlch of your rinegar, as may bver top it the height of
tour inches : thil! bnry in witrfh horse dung, for tbirty•one or
i011ty daJ'· This ltilne'OOil'lg past, tnke the forth, and yoii
will :Bnd it now and t\lr'fied black and stinking
ter; mereblack and$tit1kingthatrany'thingip thewholeworld. Take
iwtt; aadveiygently elevate itin itstabernacle,
fi.ll all tthe moisture ·is consu'lned, so 'as no mOJ"e will ascend, thi$
keep carefu.Hy fur )'bUr ':!&e. Then take the freces,
wb«th·remam:1nthe-bottom cueurb'rt, and keep them,for they
are·the..c:r0wn (afld rejoicing) of thE; bl:!art. Dye then the same
and-g11ind othent; and add thereto fresh or new cortex of the
that:is 'Say; ·mer<:u·ry, aml grind-them together,
1a a wrann sun. ·And the watei-s from the same li.rst sublimed,
aiJmk d111Wt to the bottom, 'Wtlich diligently gririd and dty, and
potithtmt'in or test •of Et'bel, and sublime: ·and
nmttet·,beiwg S'Q>bli(Ued purely white, as ·fine salt, keep it safely,
fer ;it ·
is tibe aot!Pigtpent; and stilphur and magnesia of ihe
.· · . . .
-..{Jndentahft now, ,and 'Se'e that yoa govern your work wit4
wisdom and and make not -too much haste. Then
<uourbit; put halfway into lute, aud put into the same,
yotlr ;diss{)tved blaCk water, which you have sublimed; tf1a.t is tO.
say., nme'parts,- and>Of this whitened autipigmentum, which/
. oq'
auWimeel·ti·om:the edict two ·plli'ts. :1 slly, that this opene or
a'*"ipi'gRtent, .is immedi11teiy dissolved · in 'the <
water,
ritld made like-to w3t('ll"; that Mtlling can be seen'by
a(. a :idtmse, tfuct, and perfect whiteness, ·nor any thmg :
mMc.bcautifoJ .to .the eye, ·w-hich:1!he philosophers call their sal
vir@niq, or "Vi..gin· ,Put this into a 'little caJled· a.
cucurbit, dose well the joynts; which put upon a gentle fire,
making it, as it were, :but:with two coals first, and then lidd-
ing two others: and look int<> It, to see how the water·ascends •
ahd descends. ·\\:hen you see the vapour •is eonsunied, and:
nothing.mere will :aseet1P, (){ ·thllt ·which is elevated; nor de- :
seend, know oth•t 'the matter itself is now congttblted: make
a .more JnteRie and -vehement fire, fo1: the =space of
orgitrzed by Coogle
three hours of the day. Then lasLJy, take away the fire, or let
it go•out,- ·and·• ·day ('all 't?ings being cold) open. tbe
mouth of your cucurbit, _
and take forth the matter, wh1ch IS of
. a ubstrmce, white, sincere, and mGltel;l qr dif;solved. This
your substance songltt after:' and you come tbro.ngb
to the end of your work; manage It accordmg to yo'llr
aft{l prudence/ for (God' assisting) you may make of it · 'hat
·· · ·
THE EMEUALD TABLE OF HERMES.
This is true, and far distant from a Jie; whatsoever is below,
ls like that w·hich is above; and that which is above, is like that
which is below: by this are acquired and perfected the miraclea
.
Also, as all things were made from one, by the help of one:
10 all things are made from one thing bv conjunction.
The fatf1er thereof is the sun, and the mother thereof is the
moon: the wind carries it in its belly, and the nurse thereof is
the earth. ......
This is the mother or ,,)J perfection, and its power
is perfect and entire, if b'o into earth.
Separate the earth frort thl and the subtile and thin
from the gross and thick ; but prudently with long suft'erance,
gentleness and patience, wisdom, and judgment•
. It ascends from the earth up to heaven, and descends agaia
from the heaven to the earth, and receives the powers and effi-
cacy of the superiors and inferiors. ·
In thia work, you acquire to yourself the wealth and glory of
the whole world: drive therefore from you all cloudiness or ob-
scurity, darkness and blindneas.
For the work increasingor going on in strength,
to strength, forestalling and over-topping all otlier fortitudes and
powers; and is able to subjugate and conquer all things, whether
they be thin-and subtile, or thick and solid bodies.
In this manner was the world made ; and hence are the won-
eertiU conjunctions or joinings together of the matter and pant
.4lc1aemlcal ':n-eatltn..
,bereof, and the miarvellotii eff'ects, .when in this wa1 it is
by which thete wood"' areeft'ected. . .
. And for this eause I ,am called Hermes Trimegistus, for that
J ha1'e the or understanding of the philosophy of·
the three principles of the universe. My doctrine or discourse,
which I hi.w 1lere delivered c:oncerniug thi& solar •ork, ia cum-
pleat and pet(ect.
DlgilizedbyG ogle
.,.
' .
INDEX 'f:O· THE.
·
.. . . . .. ' . . . . .... . . . - .
1.. ' . t' ; j ;, •
... ,. .,:..' .. .P.tJ£;,
Introduction to the Lives .
if tke..Jdepts,. ·r
· • · · · ··· · • •
ISynesius, 410, A. D.,JJiskpp.pfPtoleiHaU, inJly;Jhi'l,, .
i :Rhasis, 900, Physician to tke,H£J.:
:pita),,BtJgdrid, ..·. , · :17:
;s!Farabi,·1050, a Makametan;Doctor,.. . . ·. ... . ·
4 Morien, 1000, a Roman·Hermit inJJJtdea,- ' ·,· ·:9
5-Avicenna, 1030, Physician at Bacara.Persit,,. • • ).1
6 Albert, Qf Ratisbon Ba'Oeriq, • •
·· ,12
.7 l:jt, Thomas, 1260, C{lstle Italy, • , 1(t
8.Roger Bacon, 1260, a Franc.iscan."Friar;. Q_ifonJ, . ·
9. Raymond Lully,"l265, &Jlesckal·tn 17.
10 Arnold Villanova, 1291, Ph!lsician 28
11 John Rupecissa, I 350, a Franciscan Friar,
12-PopeJohn XXII. 1380, .Avignon, 26
1S John 1S12, Abbot of Westmitlller, . · 25
U Basil Valentine, 1450, a Benedicti11e Monk,. f.l'T
15 John Isaac, 1420, Holland, 21
16 John de Meun, 1360, French Poet, P•ris, 28 .
17 .Peter·Bona, 1830, qf Lombardy, 80
18 Ferarius, 1320, an RaUen Monk, 80
19 Nicholas Flamel, .1382, Scrivener, ·Earls,. 80
20 Norton, 1477, if Bristol England, 413
21 Thomas Dalton, 14<50, .Priest, Glottcf:ster..ablie!J, 46
22 Count Trevisan, 1481, o/ Padua in ltai!J, 46
John Fontaine, 1418; Poet, ·French.Fla11der.s, 49
Sir George Riplex, 1471, ·CtiJ'!Wn and 49
2S Paracelsus, 1527, Dro:ofJ(e!l. Univ•.Basil, · . 50
26 John Picus, 1491, 58
Thomas Charnock, Salisbury, .EnglaruJ, 541
Dennis Zachary, 1550, Guienne in France, §6.
Jacob Behmen, 1600, Nortlz. GermaTI.!J, .00
SO Alexander Sethon, 1602, North Britain, 6S
81 Michael Sendivogius, 1604, lmper. Counsellor of State, 61
8.2 Gustenhover, 1603, Goldsmith Strasburglz, 69
·83 Busardier, 164&, 7.0
84 Dr. John DeC, A. M. 1595, Chancellor qf St. Paul's, 71 .
85 J. B. Helmont, M. D. 1599, Flanders,
86 Butler, · , 1624, Ireland, 76
87 F. Helvetius, M.D. 1666, fiolland, 81
88 Claude Berigard, 1641, Pisa in Italy, 82
89 Transmutation, 1640, testified by A Kirclzer, 83·
40 , 1620, bifore Gustavus Adolphus, 84-
41 - - - - , 1710, bifore tke King o/Prussia, 84-
42 17151 bifore tke King ifPoland, 84
o;g,llzed by Coogle
CONTENTS.
4-S· Joaepb Balwno, 1785, a Sicilian, 10
"4 Deliale, 1708, qf Pr.uueMet- 85
t5 Eirenaeoa Phitalethea, 18+5, .88
Catalogue of Alchemical Books, 95
IntrodUction to the Alchemic Treatises, . I lS
1 Freher, analogy of the Work, 121
1 The Secret Book of Artepbius, 1S2
7- S The ancient war of the Knights, 152
Y t Eirenaeua Philalethes, secreta revealed, . .
160
J The 881De in Riplel revived, 1H
" e The same, a 'true light of Alchemy, 175
'1- 7 Alexander Sethon Philosophic 182
Weideofeld •
on the Green Lion of ParacelsUII, 187
· · S Of the. heavenly Mercury, hi G. Welling, 202
.>- 10 Six Ke.J& from the :Hermetic Triumph, · 20+
.,.. 11 Sir·G. Ripley, twelve Gate• of Alchemy, 217
· 12 John Pontanus of the Sophie Fire, 229
18 Basil Valentine's Chariot of Antimony, !/n,{ 1 2S'l '-
)> 14 Baro Urbigeras, 100 Aphorisms, · .237
;-15 Summary of Philosophy, 252
."-·115 The Hermetic Mercuries of Raymond Lully, 257
Y. 17 Sanguis Natune, or congealed Liquor, 282
r 18 First Principles according to J. Behmen, a plain decla-
. ration of the whole illustrating aU the other
Treatises, · 293
·"' 19 Pierce the black Monk, on the Elixir, . 298
i 20 Sir Edward Kelly's Work, from St. Dunstan, 299
21 Richar.d Carpenter, 300
22 Abraham Andrew's Hunting of the Green Lion, 300
2S William Bloomfield's Blossoms, SOl .
2-lo Thomas Robinson of the Stone, 301
2.? Thomas Norton, Ordinal of Alchemy, · 302 ·
26 John D'Espagnet, Hermetic Secrets, . 308
!? Sir George Ripley, Mercury of Philosophers, SIS
28 Christopher of Paris, of the same, 828 .
29 Arislreust an Ancient Dialogue, 827
SO Roger Bacon, Radix Mundi, 390 -
1 The true Book of Synesius the Greek Abbot, 953
. Kalid the Persian, Secret of Secrets, 854
. . '!39 Mary of Alexandria, .Dialogue with Aros, 368
!l4 Hermes Trismegi&tus, 7 nnd tablet, 366
FINIS.
o1git1zed by Coogle
