{"name":"A Caution And Instruction To The Sealed","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1807__southcott___a_caution_and_instruction_to_the_sealed.pdf","mytitle":"A Caution And Instruction To The Sealed","mylang":"de"}
. A CAUTION AND INSTRUCTION
?* , • /
>'TO THE
S E A L E D , r > ,t
that they may know fo r what they a rt sealed: '
\ ,. < .
February 3d, 1807. ,
X shall begin any' Book with an observation to
those who sign, that they may discern what they
sign to. It is to petition with their hands and
hearts to what our blessed^ Lord and Saviour
taught us to pray for in his Gospel. If they"
discern the sense of the words, he taught us t©>
pray to our Father in Heaven,' that l$is Kingdom '
might come and m s will be done in Earth, astfc-
is in Heaven; and to deliver us from Evil for his
is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory.
And this is the Petition believers sign to, that the
earth may be the Lord's and the fulness thereof;
and that we may be delivered from Satan’s power.
This is the sense of the first. And now I shall
come to the Sealing. Those who thus join hand
and heart, and subscribe with their hands unit!
the Lord, to petition for the fulfilment of hjs
words, are sealed to be made Heirs of God. Not-
that it is said they are already so, hut that they
may be made so, to enjoy the Tree of Lifo, "and
be freed from Satan’
s power,' This is what they
are sealed for: bat how many have pruumproi
oasly cast these Bieasiqgs from them! Af *nrae}'
•Printed by W. Marchaat, 3, GreTillc-
Digitized by
«
had -signed to be made Heirs of God, they
have fallen off by temptations, which plainly
proved they were not Heirs of the Promise; ana
therefore let them discern, from the sealed letters,
how it stands on conditions.—And now I shall
come to the Scriptures* where I was answered in
a Communication. The words stood on record,
though in different places; they were brought to- •
fether by the Spirit to me. On searching the
Criptures 1 found the Words in the following
Chapters:
Rev. viiC. 3v.—Hurt not the earth, neither the
sea, nor the trees, till' we hare sealed the servants
of God.
3 iPeter, ii C. 6 v.—Bfehold I lay in Sinn a
chief comer stone, elect, precious; he that be­
lieveth on him shall not be confounded.
. Ephesians, iv. C. 30 v.—Grieve not the Holy
Spirit of. God, whereby ye are sealed to the day
of, Redemption.
- Rev. xxii C. 14 v.—Blessed, are they that do
hj$ commandments, that they may have right to
the Tree of Life.
. Romans, viii .C. 17 v.*—
If. children, then heirs,
heirs jof God and joint heirs with Christ..
: From the above verses, you will find is the
sense of the Words in the Seals, which may easily
bjs placed together. And no.w I shall give, the
answer. of the Spirit to the different chapters,
from where the Words were taken and brought
together to me, .
y , Th e A nswer or the Spirit, .
*
*
. Let them discern, these chapters stand for
the end, when the awful stroke, that cometh grie­
vously upon the earth and the seas, to destroy
those that mock the. coming of the Lord, is kept
back* before the servants of God are sealed; and
let them* discern bowthe sealing stands for the
Digitized by V j uogt-
end; and k is for those who shall stand with the
Lamb on Mount Sion. So let them discern where
these words stand; and let them discern the chap­
ter before, how the seals were opened in heaven,
before the sealing is pronounced. And this men
must discern; then let them discern the words of
the Apostle Peter—Behold I lay in Sion a chief*
cornerstone, elect, precious; and he that believeth
in him shall not be confounded. Utito you there­
fore, who believe, h e is precious; but a stone of
stumbling and a rock of offence even to them who
stumble at the word, being disobedient, where-
unto also they are appointed. Then let them dis­
cern, from these words, what they are appointed
for, if they are not disobedient to the heavenly
calling; and for what ends the corner stone is laid
for the elect, whom I said in my Gospel the days
should be shortened for; and then I should bring
in mad’s redemption; and let them discern where
the words are taken from in part: the corner
stone being laid for men, to make them a royal
priesthood to them that believe he is precious, but
not to the disobedient; and therefore it is written,
a stone of stumbling to many: and thus it is
.known many have stumbled at the words, being
.disobedient, whereunto they were appointed.
Let them discern the truth of the Apostle’s
words, which is proved by many who sign to be
the elect, to rely on the corner stone laid in the
foundation of the world, and the promise that was
made in the fall. This is the corner stone for
man, wherein your redemption must take place,
when I avenge you of your adversary the devil.
And this is believed by some; that I shall fulfil
my words, and on my promises do they rely,
that 1 shall make them a royal priesthood, a holy
nation, and a peculiar people, to shew forth my
praises to the ends of the earth. This is the faith
in them that believe, and obey the call; but to
Afi
3
Digitized by t ^ o o Q l e
tile disobedient, discern on tlie other hand, it fa &
stone of stumbling to them ; because they stum­
ble at the Words, and do not believe my promise
sure, that man’s redemption shall take place; and
therefore they grieve the Spirit^ whereby they
were sealed, and fall off through unbelief. But
mark the end of the chapter—Ye were as sheep
going astray, but are now returned unto the Shep­
herd and Bishop of your souls; and this will be
the end of them that believe and rely upon the
comer stone, that I told them in my (tospel I
should come again, in might, majesty, amhglory,
to bring in the redemption of man, to inherit the
’tree of life, according to the promise made in the
' beginning: and I have told thee the flaming sword
shall surely bruise the serpent's head, and keep
the tree of life for thbm that believe : and blessed
are they that do my commandments, that they
may have a right to the tree of life, and may en­
ter in through the gates into the city. And noifr
' discern, this chapter speaks of the end: and let
‘them discern what the chapter contains—Behold
*1 come quickly, and my reward is with m e: -I
' am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the
ending, the first and the last. So let them dis­
cern, the promise made at first must be accom­
plished at the last: if I made man innocent at
first, and pronounced all things good, I shall ac­
complish it at the last; and then they will know
I am the root and offspring of David, and the
‘bright and morning star, and the spirit is come to
warn yon, that whomsoever will come may come,
and take of the water of life freely, to be made
heits of God and joint heirs with Christ, accord­
ing to ,tbe words of the Apostle. And let them
discern the chapter through, from whenee these
words were taken, and -discern what ye are wait­
ing for, in hopes of your redemption. Here let
‘men discern every chapter, where the words were
'taken from, not according to thywisdom, to search
the Scriptures andplaee them together,as thou knew-
est not where the words were dispersed, before this
time, that I ordered thee to search the Scriptures,
and told thee the words stood on record, that I
had brought together to be placed for the sealed'
people that believe. But now discern, from all
the chapters, how some are sealed after the spirit,
and others after the flesh. Those that are sealed
after the flesh are soon broken off, because they
have no faith to believe in the spirit by whom they
iaresealed. And now discern, from these chapters,
how the Apostle speaks of the end, that ye should
be waiting for your redemption, that was not ac­
complished : and let them discern all these Scrip­
tures where I gathered the words from, for thee to
place in the seals, how the Apostles speak of the
end in the chapters, after being filled with the
Holy Ghost, and inspired from on high: and now
I tell thee, those that are after the spirit will mind
the things of the spirit^ and discern from the
8criptures- for what they are sealed, and have the
eyes of their understanding opened to discern the
words of the Apostles, where the words were
taken from. This the believers will discern, in
what manner I took the words to bring them to­
gether, that they may see the words of the Apos­
tles before them; but those, on the other hand,
will not discern that the petition they are to sign
to is a likeness of the words I taught them to pray
for: thatthekingdomofGod might come on earth,
and his will might be done upon earth as it is in
heaven, tpdeliveryou fromevil, isthe prayerI taught
mankind: and now discern'from the sealing, to
pray that Satan’s power may be destroyed is to de­
liver you from all evil: so if men discern what
they sign to, it is what I taught them to pray for.
And here I have shewn thee, from the Scriptures,
in what manner they both stand together; then let
5
Digitized by Google
them judge for themselves, how fatal must be the
sin or those that profess to be believers in my
Gospel, and will presumptuously mock the seal­
ing. Therefore, I tell thee; the command must
be strict unto all for the future; and let them dis­
cern, from the Scriptures where the words were
taken from, how the different sorts of people were
foretold and prophesied of by the Apostles. This
men must discern themselves, what the Apostles
told them they were waiting for, and what they
had to hope to attain. So if men clearly discerned
their words, they would discern that the mystery
of the sealing is great to the believers, that are
obedient to the heavenly calling, but not to the
disobedient and unbelievers, who walk not after
the spirit but after the flesh, and soon fall back -
through unbelief. And here let them discern fur­
ther, though the Apostles are dead their words
appear to speak to the living, and to confound the
disputers of this world.”
Here ends the communication concerning the
Scriptures, where the words in the Seals were taken
from.
, Given Jan. 29, 1807.
Jt Communication, given Dec. 14-th, 1806.
“ Now I shall come to caution the Sealed People
who are sealed to be elect members of Christ: but
let them consider, they must strive to make their
calling and election sure; as they are not all of
Israel that are in Israel; neither are they all sealed
in faith that ave sealed in names; and those that
are sealed in unbelief and have departed from
the faith cannot be called of the sealed number;
because the Lord will judge from the heart; and
it is from the heart man believeth unto righteous-
new, to fulfil the Gospel. The Sealing hath al­
ready went out like the net cast into the sea, ga- '
thering in good and bad; but many have come in
6
I
.oogle
as thieves and robbers, professing faith when they
had none, after the command was given that none
should come in but by faith. Yet as it is impos­
sible for men to judge from the heart; if they
profess a faith when they have none, the evil is to
themselves; and therefore the caution must be
strictly given for the future, that no one is to be
sealed, but such as have read to judge for them­
selves, and are convinced the calling is of God,
from the manner of my visitation.
And now I shall give them the Communication
that was given me after hearing that many had
fallen back, that were first sealed, and many had
come in as impostors, whose names I am ordered
to blot out from the Second Sealing. These
things I marvelled at, that they should be permit­
ted ; but was answered as follows.
T h e A n s w e r o f t h e S e i r i t .
“ Know I told thee of the Sealing in the be­
ginning, it was like the net cast into the sea, ga­
thering in good and bad. This I told thee of the
first; and like thieves and robbers, know I told
thee, many would come in, as I placed it to my
parables in my Gospel; and these things stand on
record, to prevent the subtlety «f Satan’s arts,
that he may not be able to swell ylieir pride of
being some of the sealed number, that will stand
to the end-with the Lamb on Mount Sion; be­
cause there are none who can stand of the sealed
number in the end, but such as are true believers
in heart and mind, unshaken in faith, and perfect
in obedience to the heavenly calling. It is these
are the people that are the sealed number, to stand
to the end. But 1 now tell thee of this nation;
were there as- many true and faithful believers in
this nation as there are names sealed, ye need not
fear any enemy ever coming to this nation; be­
cause my judgements upon the unbelieving world
7 •
Digitized by L r O O Q l e
would come another way. But now I tell thee
of many, they are like the fish that came into .
the net to he cast away, as many already are be­
come thy enemies; but were such to profess their
faith was strong and unshaken in my visitation to
thee, then their sins must be of the blackest dye,
and sin through light and knowledge, doing des­
pite unto my Spirit, if they profess to believe it
is by my Spirit thou art led. He that is not with
me is against m e; he thatgathereth not with me
scattereth. What I said in the days of the flesh,
when I was amongst them, 1 now say by the visi-.
tation of my Spirit: those that were offended at .
'my sayings, and went back and walked no-more
with me, I never called them my friends, or fol­
lowers, .or my disciples: but know what I said in
my Gospel, he that began iu the spirit and ended
in the flesh, the last state of that man was worse
than the first; therefore marvel not in thy heart
that such men should be chosen, as fall back;
neither marvel that men should be suffered to Ire
sealed who are thy, enemies; because there were
such professors when I was amongst them in the
flesh; and such I said there would be iu the end,
that in tbe time of temptations would fall away ;
but It is those that endure to the end will be saved.
Therefore I tell thee of the sealed people; it is not
their names being sealed will be of any use to
them, unless their hearts are sealed in faith and
love for my kingdom; and it is those are the
sealed people, that will stand with m e on Mount
Sion, whose eyes of their understanding are
opened clearly to discern, from the manner of my
visitation to thee, the justice of my decrees in the
beginning, aud the promise that was first made
after the fall, and tne justice of my decrees in
setting bounds for the adversary, that betrayed at
first, as bounds were set for man in the beginning.
Thus men mustdiscerp my ways, and njy wisdom, -
8
.ooghr
my justice in my decrees, and be clearly con­
vinced it is from the visitation of my Spirit to the
woman, that the promise is first pleaded by the
woman; this men must clearly discern, before
they can be of the sealed number that stands with
m e on Mount Sion, to plead the promise made in •
the beginning, that your adversary may be de- '
stroved, that your redemption may take place in •
and through my death and sufferings.—And now »
I ask thee, where is the man who can thusbelieye
that my Spirit is joined witlr thy spirit, and tfiy
spirit is joined with my Spirit, to be thus united^ .1
for the glory of God and the good of mankind,,
for the earth to be the Lord’s and the fulnes^
thereof? I now ask thee, where is the man who
■can thus believe, and be at enmity against thee,
or depart from thee, without Satan, as an angel of
light, hath blinded his eyes, and hardened bis heart
against m e , as well- as thee? so that hypocrisy,
must fill the heart, where malice appeareth in a
believer, to withdraw from my visitation to thee,’ ••
and cleave to others. They no more understand
the meaning of my visitation to thee, or for what; •
ends, than the Jews understood the meaning of •
their prophets, who rejected me and my Gospeli
therefore they cannot stand as sealed people in the -
end; for I shall blot them out of the book .of;
remembrance, as thou must blot out the names of\.
those that publicly owned they came jn asimpos- ••
tors; because they came in as thieves and robbers, „
who have no right to the tree of-life, or to be •
called the sealed of the Lord; because their hearts '
arc not sealed by faith.—And let them remembei;
what 1 have said in thy writings—the hand anc^ •
•
the heart must be United together: apdtliough -
thou canst but jUdge by outward appparance, let'
them know I judge‘from, the heart,': apd there­
fore another year, .when I permit th*e sealing to go(
cm again, k Stficte'r eothniafid tlikn hktli yet been
B
9
Digitized by C lO IC •
given will be given unto all. Hitherto my Gospel
hath went on to prove the truth of my words,
from the net being cast into the sea, gathering in
good and bad, which is proved by the different
people; and now like thieves and robbers many
nave come in, professing faith when they have
none; but now I shall begin to change the scenes,
that no more are to be sealed, but such as can
<Jraw their judgment clear from thy writings and
the Scriptures, that-the eyes of their understand­
ing are opened, clearly to discern' that the visita­
tion is from me the living Lord; and for what
ends the visitation is—to free the fall of the
woman, and set bounds for her adversary, as
bounds were set for man. This they mpst see and
understand, and have their hearts united with m e ,
to be longing for my coming to give you life.
fa the Jews clamoured for my death, this must
be the desire of those that are the sealed people,
to stand with me on Mount Sion, of the hundred
and forty and four thousand, which I have told
thee is the sealed number, that are sealed in heart
by faith, to join with the Lamb that was slain,
from the foundation of the world, by the promise
made in the fall. Here I have already shewed
thee, how the promise must be clearly discerned,
for what end it was made, and for what end it. was
said my heel should be bruised —to bruise the ser­
pent's head. Thus the sealed number must dis­
cern, what they have signed to—to join with the
Lamb, that your adversary the devil may be
destroyed ; that yopr -redemption may come, ac­
cording to my promise made in my Gospel; that
the kingdoms of thjs world may become the king­
doms ot the living Gqd; that Satan may be cast
Out, and I may draw all men to me, according to
my words that are wriftenv
iij my Gospel, Thus
the eyes of fhe«r understanding must be opened to
discernthe promiseat first, and how I am come
10
oogf
n
to visit iu the Spirit, to warn you all tire end isat
hand, that I shall fulfil the promise made to the
woman: But ye must ask it in my namei that
yonr joys may be full. These are they that stand
with me, to overcome ip tlie end the world, the
flesh, and the devil. I am coming in the Spirit
to overcome in man, that now in heart and faith
relieth upon my words and- promises: but all my1
Gospel must be discerned, and understood, by the
sealed people, that will stand to the end. Know*
what 1 said in my Gospel—many should come
from the east, and the west, and sit down with
Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, when those of the
kingdom should be cast out; perfectly so I tell
thee ofthe sealed people, who have come in through'
unbelief* pretending themselves to be children of
the kingdom, that they are sealed to be heirs of
the promise, but have come in as thieves and
robbers. Such will be cast out: and some of
different nations will come in to take their place;
that meaneth, they will come in by faith, and the
eyes of their understanding will be opened clearly*
to discern for what they are sealed, and* how the
promise stands’on record ; they will discern that
stand to the end; but the others, that are cast
out, will not have the eye9 of their understanding
opened, to know for what they are sealed, any*
mote than these thou marvellest at have under­
stood for what they are sealed: and therefore it is
written, none could learn the song but the hun­
dred and forty and four thousand. Now were all
the. sealed people thus enlightened, and this
clearly understood; then Satan would And a way
*rt© sweH their pride, to make them judge they were
more than mortals; so marvel not in tliy heart,
that many deceive!* are come in, and many un­
believers, that do* not discern for what they are
sealed^-to stop the arts of Satan’s working that
men may ctoc boosts because they are sealed thefr
b 2 -
Digitized by Google
IS;
foundation is sure; but let them discern, it is- he
that/holds out to the end, whose foundation is
sure, whether in death, or in life, if their hearts*
are sealed by faith and love to me, and my king­
dom o f,righteousness and peace, to refuse the
evil and choose the good; forsaking all to follow
M E . $ixfh are the sealed number, that will stand
in glory at the end. But here is room for all to-
be cautious, and keep their eye to the end, that:
•they may not be high-minded, but fear: and let.
•their inquiry be like my Disciples, Lord is it Ir-
This must be the caution to mankind, that they
may not begin in the spirit and end in the flesh :
but know, he that- putteth his hand to the plough
and draweth back, is by no means fit for the'
-.kingdom of heaven; arid he that putteth his-*
'hand to this plough to be united with m e and my
kingdom, if he goeth back he is by no means fit
for my kingcfom; therefore a caution must be
given to the sealed people, and' warn them to make
a deep inquiry, whether they are sealed by a true
faith, and a knowledge for what they are sealed
because, I tell thee, to learn a thing is to come to-
a knowledge thereof.—Canst thou learn Hebrew,
Grepk, or Latin, thou dost not understand thy­
self, before it be taught thee of others? Now
perfectly so I tell thee of the sealing, men cannot-
learn to understand the perfect meaning thereof,,
before the mysteries are clearly revealed, and.
clearly explained; therefore I said the kingdom
of heaven was like a pearl of great price, that ye
must dig deep to find. And here I have shewn:
thee how men must dig deep from the'Scriptures
and my visitation to thee, to find out in what
manner the sealed number, that stands to*
t)ie end, must find out the mystery, for what
tliey are sealed—to be united with, m e , and
I with them; and those that have not. already
learnt, but.are come in as little children, wishiug-
,-oogIe
to learn,: that they may stand with joy to the'
end, such will seek instruction from the words
that I have revealed to thee, and weigh it deeply
with the beginning, that they may see their calling
clear; but such as are self-confident, and wise in-
their own conceit, will never learn the new song,
to stand with the Lamb on'Mount Sion : but the
sealed number, that are true believers, and know
for what they are sealed, they are the very elect
for whom the days will be shortened; therefore,
let them try to make their calling and election
sure, that they may be redeemed from the fall, and
stand with m e for their redemption.—And now
come to my Gospel—Whosoever eateth my flesh,
and drinketh my blood, hath eternal life, and I
will raise him up at the last day. And know I
commanded the bread and wine, as in memory
of my death and sufferings, to be kept in remem-.
brance of m e , that trust in m e for salvation;,
but do men vainly suppose every one that eats the
bread and drinks .the wine hath eternal life in
m e , because they do it as a form ? I "tell thee,,
no: it is done by many who are enemies to me
and my Gospel; and perfectly'so I tell thee of the
sealing. And now discern further, after the com­
mand was^given by my Disciples, of the bread
and wine, to set forth my death and sufferings, ‘
and to be kept in memory of m e ; discern how
soon the Apostles complained of many, as though
they came to make thrirselves drunk with wiue.
Here you may discern, how soon was Satan’s
working in such minds, to bring a disgrace upon
my death and suffering; aud how soon the evil,
was mixed with the good ; and perfectly so I tell
fhee of the sealing; it is not tneir names being
sealed will be of any use to them, unless they are.
sealed in heart by faith, and love for my kingdom,
to be established in righteousness and peace, and -
fongiog for the evil to. be destroyed. And here;
13
Digitized by t ^ o o Q l e
let them discern the type of them both, how the'
bread and wine h kept in memory.of my words,
that they might be fulfilled by believers, who
trust in >.t e for salvation ; and perfectly so I tell
thee of the sealing that trust in m e for their re*-
deraption: aud let them remember the words I
said to John the Baptist, when I came to him tx»
be baptized—Sutter it to be so now; for thus it
becometh us to fulfil al| righteousness: and per­
fectly so stands the sealing; it is to fulfil the Scrip­
tures to them that believe; for if I suffered myself
to be baptized by mau; and suffered myself to be
rejected by men. and submitted to the cross by
■their desire; then let them know, in the end I
shall submit to be chosen of men to come again,
in might, majesty, and glory, by their desire, to
avenge them of their adversary, that goeth about
like a roaring lion, seekiiig whom he may devour:
anti therefore I tell them all, the sealing*is deep
to. them that believe and trust in m e , as their
Prince and Saviour, to bring in my kingdom of
righteousness and peace, and have my delight
with the sons of men, whose delight is in their
Lord. And let them discern from the beginning,
how offerings were commanded to be offered up,
of bullocks and sheep ; but now discern, it is the
hand and heart that I have commanded to be of­
fered up, as tokens of love, by them that wish for
the fulfilment of my Gospel, and trust in m e for
salvation and redemption. And now let men
search the Scriptures, and then they will discern
how the Sealing must appear, before my Gospel*is
fulfilled: and those that say it is blasphemy nm$t
make my Gospel the same: and let them answer
why they keep the bread and wine in memory oft
m e , to set forth my death till my coming, and
reject the haud that signs for my kingdom ? Let
this be answered by man, and 1 shall answer thee
again. And I shall further answer thee of the
14
objections men may make, saying it is sinners
that are sealed; but know, I came to seek and to
save that which was lost; and the returning sin-
ners I promised in my Gospel should be saved ;
and so I tell thee of the returning sinuer now ;
and let them discern from the Scriptures how
mercy is held out to all that turn unto m e : I shall
turn unto them; and whosoever will come may
come, and take of\the water of life freely ; there­
fore mercies are held out to all; and where is the
man who can judge the heart ? It is I the Lord
that searcheth the heart, and trieth the reins of
the children of men; therefore ye can judge no
man but by his fruits: but let every man judge
for himself what the desire of his heart is; and
let them consider, from the fajl, how Satan tempted
the woman to pluck the fruit with her hand; then
let no man marvel that my command should be to
the woman, to give her hand to pull down the-
evil and cast it away, that she may reach unto
the good. Here is a mystery deep for man, that
will be deeply discerned in the end : and men will
know in the end that the Sealing is done by my
command, the Lord of lords, the King of kings,
your Creator and Redeemer, to bring all to my
Gospel, and the likeness of my words that 1 said
of eating my flesh, and drinking my blood, which
is known to thee could not be done by man in the
manner I spoke the words; but it is my words that
are left on record, when I come to bring in man's
redemption, to make you a likeness of my flesh
and blood, that ye may dwell in m e , and 1 in
you: and for this end 1 came into the world—ta
raise you up at the last day, that ye may be one
with m e , and 1 with you, and drink deep into
my Spirit, seeing my blood, that was shed for
you, must cleanse you from all sin, and avenge
you of your adversary in the end; then shall ye
be clothed \fith my righteousness, when my Spirit
15
Digitized by Google
is poured out upon all. Thus men must clearly
discern the depth of- my words, how they stand
for the end, when I come to cleanse you from all
sin, and bring in your full redemption: then my
flesh will be meat indeed, and my blood will lie
drink indeed ; because ye are freed by my blood,
that was shed for you. And as my body was of­
fered for the transgression of man, so shall I ful­
fil my words, to-avenge you of your adversary
the devil. Here I tejl thee, men must discern the
meaning of my words, bow they stand for the
end : and know, the bread and wine, that have
been already kept in remembrance of m e, to set
forth my death till my coming, hath only been «s '
types and shadows to men, .which they themselves-
no more understood how my words stand for the
end, when f conip to bring in eternal life, than
thou uuderstoodest in the beginning, for what?
ends the Sealing went out in such a' careless man-'
ner to man, without any strict caution to be
given, but as a type of the likeness of Moses-
sprinkling the :door-posts. And here stands the
mystery, to bring the likeness of Moses and the
Lamb, and to try mankind, ‘and bring all To iny-
Ciospel, that the Blood of die Lamb may de-.
liver you from all sin, and free you from Satan's
power in the end, as the children of Israel were
freed from the liand of<Pharaoh. This was the
shadow in the beginning, when I gave no com­
mand of faith, only required the desire of the
heart to be freed*from, the poweT of Satan, by the
Blood of the Lamb: then yog will see that my
flesh was meat indeed, to make you: meet-for.
your master’s use, and clothe you all with my
righteousness: and my blood is drink indeed, that *
ye may drink with-joy into my Spirit* when I
come to avenge you of your adversary, and bring
in my kingdom of righteousness and peace.
Then will my words be fulfilled,- that no man
16
oogle
understood; perfectly so I tel) -thee of the Seal*
ing, men have not understood for what ends the
type and shadow began, concerning the sealing
—to shew you all the substance must follow: and
it is for those whose eyes are opened to discern
from the Scriptures, that if ye wish to drink deep
into my Spirit, to be one with m e , and I with
you, ye must discern the promise at first, that as
my heel was bruised, to suffer,for the transgression
of man, the curse that was pronounced on the
serpent, which is. your adversary the devil, must
take place; and this must be discerned by the
sealed people, that are of the number to stand
with m e on' Mount Sion; and therefore I tell,
thee, it is a new song to man, that neither the
prophets nor Apostles understood; for had it been
clearly understood, it could not be fulfilled; be­
cause Satan would have found a way to be work*
ing in every age with impostors and deceivers; and
as men have went on in the Sacrament, thinking
my wordswere fulfilled by them that received it,
perfectly so they would have went on by the
sealed number, and no new song could have come
to man. But here is a new song for man, to sing
that their redemption draweth near, by the blood
of the Lamb, that was slain for the transgression of
man. And thus men must discern, in what manner
all is explained,and in what manner I am coming
to fulfil my Gospel; according to my words: ana
those that have the eyes of their understanding
opened clearly to discern* and faith to believe in
my visitation, that I am now come to fulfil the
whole; such, I tell thee, are the sealed people
that will stand with m e at the end; but marvel
not in thy heart, why 1 chused a man whose
heart was known to m e would draw back in
heart and life, and cause others to do the same.
These things I permitted to shew them plainly
c
17
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
r p
IS
from my Gospel, how ihey are folfilling my
words: and know it k"those wh6 endure to the
end that are the good to-be preserved; and those
are my sheep that come in by faith: but the
others are thieves and robbers, who have no tight
to the tree of life: for they are not all of Israel
that profess to be in Israel; but they must try to
make their calling and election sure, if they wish
to be the elect members, for whose sake the days
will be shortened of sin and sorrow: and these
are the elect that I shall avenge of their adver­
sary, whose faith is strong in m e , that I shall
fulfil the words I spoke in my Gospel, to dwell in
you, anchyou in me, who clearly discern from the
bread and wine, that is kept in memory of my
death, that the words are not perfectly fulfilled in
fhem, any more than the sealed people have al­
ready learnt the new song of their redemption, to
be Redeemed from the power of death, nell, and
sin. This they have not already learnt;, and
there are thousands sealed, that know not for
what they are sealed; but those that are sealed in
faith I shall open the eyes of their understanding,
to discern for what they are sealed—with the Blood
of the Kew Covenant, to bring in man’s redemp­
tion. This is what the Sealing is—for to fulfil my
promise, and bring in the tree of life, that was pre­
served for man in the beginning, as a type and sha­
dowtoman ; which typeand shadowaredone away;
hut the promise stands sure; for the promise stands
to the-end, though the tree is not standing to this
day : and so I tell thee, the sword is standing in
my death, to bring in a newness of life to man,
and cat off your adversary that betrayed. This
is the promise that is standing; but how can the
promise that stands on the records of heaven be
a standard to man, if the type and shadow had
.never appeared to man ? And though the type is
' done away, the promise stands sure to the end.
•oogle
And this the wisewill discern, that the tree of life
was preserved for man, that he might have hope
in the end, that man’s.redemption will take,places
as it stanch on record, -though never understood
by man, in what manner it would be accomplished;
before 1 come to reveal the whole,' that it is by
the promise made to the woman in tliC-beginning
jt must be completed1in the ending; and the pro*
mise mutt be claimed, to whom it was -made;
And this must be discerned bymeu, howmy
dealings in all ages of the world with men were
after thd manner of men: and after the manner
of men I submitted to the eross. Then now let
them discern clearly how it is after the manner of
men, by prayers and petitions, that I shall comC
and destroy your adversary, and bring in my
kingdom of righteousness and peace* *These are
the things the wise must discern, for what .ends
my Visitation is; and let them discern at what
time this Revelation came as a new -song, nevCr
before thought of by man ; but now will be dis­
cerned by the sealed people, that are sealed hi
faith, and wish to know for what ends they are
sealed ; but now I tell thee, for the fUture, no
more must be sealed, but such as can give a clear
account of their faith, from my revelation to thee*
They, must weigh the whole together, and discern
the Scriptures clear, and examine their hearts,
whether they can clearly see the wisdom and jus­
tice of my decrees, that they may come in by
faith, as sheep into the fold; for it must be made
known that thieves and robbers have come in,
professing -to have faith when they had none;
then they cannot be heirs to the tree of life, to
he made heirs of God, and joint heirs with the
•Son. . For I howteRthee, to be made joint heifs
With m e , that ae fny blood .was shed to destroy
your adversary, they must believe in the promise
that was made, that. I shall fulfil i t ; and' here
C 2
Digitized by L i O O Q l e
they stand joint heirs of the promise. And this
must be the faith of men, and those that are
seated*, if they will be of the number that stands
with m s in the end. But this they cannot be
taught by man; they must read and judge for
themselves, in what manner the whole is explained,
and at what time this Visitation appeared—at a
time my Gospel is fulfilling, and before it sprang
forth I warned you of them. This must be dis*
cerned together, that they may get wisdom and
learn instruction: and let them discern, it is a new
song that never before was thought of by man,
but the wisdom of a God revealed; and let them
discern in what manner thou hast been led on,
year after year, with writings put in such form as
Itwas put of the power ofSatan to use arts to invent
jh any one; but had thy writings been put plain ina
few prophecies, and plain directions; then Satan
pould soophave found away to work the likeness in
Others; but I havebrought it round insuch a manner
as no likeness .can appear; and in thy writings they
will discern truths ip the end, that they theirselves
have never understood, before I place the truth
before them what they do not discern. But now
I am come tp open the eyes of men’s understand'
jng concerning the Scriptures, that they may
clearly see the meaning ofmy words, that I spoke
of a time to come, of casting out the prince of
this world, and drawing all men after m e , to
fulfil the words of itbe prophet, for death to be
swallowed up in victory, and the rebuke of my
C
;ople to be taken away from pff tire earth, So
t not thp believers gripve that they have drawn
Uwrong judgment concerning the words I spoke
to thee in 1792; because it was permitted by m e ,
to shew mankind what wrongjudgment they have
drawn fsom the Scriptures; and .from thy senses
being confined, not to understand the meaning of
?ny wprds, is to shew them plainly from the djsci?
20
pies, that they did not understand the meaning of
my words, when I said, if I was lifted up, I would
draw all men after m e . And now I shall answer
thee from the comforter’s coming, and when he is
come, he will reprove the world of sin, of righte­
ousness, and of judgment; of 9in, because they
believe not on m e ; of judgment, because the
prince of this world is judged: howbeit when the
Spirit of Truth is come, he will guide you into all
truths, and shew you .things to come. These
words are judged by the believers in my Gospel
to be fulfilled in the days of my disciples, without
discerning there was. no likeness of their fulfil­
ment ; neither was the prince ofthis world judged;
neitherwas it understood, that he should bejudged
by the judgment of mankind; neither did such
a thought enter man, of the way I ami; working,
to shew you all in what manner thing$#tood from
the creation of the world, and how Satan’swork­
ing hath went on to this day: but now I ant
come to set bounds for him, as I set for man in
the beginning; and by his temptations he is
judged, as man was judged by his disobedience;
and now the Comforter is come, to warn you that
the time draweth near, when he shall be cast out.
And let them discern, from the Spirit of Truth,
what things already have come to pass, and how
the words agree together, to comfort the believers
that are looking up for their redemption, waiting
for the kingdom of God to be at hand. So if
men discern deeply the words I spoke in the days
of the flesh, anti the words 1 have spoken now by
my Spirit, they must discern this is the time that
the words in my Gospel shall be fulfilled; and
thys they may sec the likeness of my words, by
the manner all is brought round; and if men
clearly discern these things, they must know the
Spirit of truth must first come to warn you, that
ye may ask and receive, that your joys may be
21
Digitized by t ^ o o Q l e
^uJL And these'are the words I told my discipies
to be reft op record for the end; thep let all men
discern, if ye must ask to receive, it must be re­
pealed tp you what to ask, that yourjoys may he
full : but know, at that time, it was not revealed
to them what they should ask in piy name, to
make your joys complete:.and had it then been
revealed, before the time came to be fulfilled;
then men might say they asked in vain. So hero
are Scripture? I have pointed out to thee, that were
not understood by men.”
In apswer to the number that-is sealed, which
is near -fourteen thousand, I was answered, If
there were seven thousand of them true believers,
‘ ■ who had not bowed a knee to Baal, by tempta-
, iions, .to go from their faith, but were sealed in
heart and faith, no Enemy should hurt this Land,
by coming within the borders : and your deliver­
ance-must be near, if seven thousand true believers
are found in the land,, scaled by faith, apd longing
for .their, comiug Lord, to establish peace and
righteousness in the earth: and I. hope this will
put.every one Upon an, inquiry, whether they*are
sealed in faith or not.
.AVhen the Lists were scaled up at the end of the
year 1800’, L was ordered to have the Lord's
Prayer copied off apd sealed -up with the lists ;
aud from the last words of the Lord’s Prayer—
'For thine is the kingdom, and the. power, and the
glory, for ever, amen—my Petition, was, Even so
come, Lord Jesus, O come, quickly— '
..Thou that fillest the heavens with thy majesty,
fill the earth with thy goodness, that all the earth
J . may praise thy nanie, from the ends of the earth ;
that all the earth may see thy salvation, and give
unto the Lord the glory and hopoijir due imto ins
name; that thy delight may be with the sons of
men, and they may walk in the light of thy coun­
tenance ; that righteousness and truth may meet
£3
oogle
together,* love and peace may kiss each other ;
that the promise made in the fall may now be fnl-
■%1'ed; and the tree of life, that was preserved for
man, grant, O God, it may now come to man ;
that the flaming sword may destroy pur adver­
sary, that is the devil, and our God be all in all;
and may we all unite together in heart and soul
in this petition, and request that death and hell
may be swallowed up in victory,^ that dust and
ashes, whom the Lord hath created, may set
forth his praises, world without end, amen, is my
desire, _
Joanna Southcott.
For the future all that are sealed must join with
•me in this petition, as well as the former.
And now I shall finish this book, from a com­
munication given in 179f>. In answer to a Text
preached by the Rev. Archdeacon Barnes—“ The
ox knoweth his owner, the ass his masters crib,
but Israel do not know, my people do not con­
sider.”—To these words I was answered, that the
Text was like the sons of men—
“ Because the ox his owner knows,
The ass his master’s crib,
But Israel backward they do go,
And do not know their Lord;
The birds know their appointed time
To build and hatch their young,
But man is wasting all his time, ‘
Nor knows the days arc come,
That like the birds ’tis time to.build,
A6d make their nests secure;
The hawk is hovering o’er the fields, .
And will your Joys devour;
And therefore be not now unwise, * T
But seek the truth to know;
I will no longer now disguise:
If men do careless go,
. Their houses desolate will be,
The ftfltlnes will kiHdle fa*t;
In every land my hand you 1
1see, *
23
Digitized by
^ And England’s dye is cast; '
But every land I'M visit first,
That England may awake:
But hero my anger it will burst,
< And make your hearts to shake ;
Unless like thee they do begin
To seek their chosen Friend,
And seek to hear the words from me—
Tis deep what thou hast penn'd.
The grapes have made all nation* drunk;
The children now appear
To end as Noah’s sons began;
Then see the deluge near,
To run with blood, much like the flood, *
Abroad in every land:
'Tis kindling fast, the flames will burst— •
Oh! how will Englandstand
Encompass’d round with such a sound
The deluge from abroad ?
And now at home doth England groan;
Vour sorrows will be know'd.
Could you discern how I do warn,
Then warning you would take;
If you do not I’ll tell your lot—
Your sorrows they will break.”
24
L O N D O N :
Printed by W.MA*cnAWT,GrevUle-Street; ami sold by E. J. Fir.to, No. 139,
near Bloomsbury Court, Hij'h Holborn; W. Tozeb, Lambeth Road, Sr.
(Jeorge’s Fields; also by W. Symonos, Gandy Lane; and the Mis* Evk-
u .ighs, St. Srdwelt’s, Kxeter; S, Hirst, Leeds; J. Middleton,* York ;
and J ames Liotu, Coventry-Street, Stombridge, Worcestershire.
