{"name":"The Case Of Joanna Southcott","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1815__mathias___the_case_of_joanna_southcott.pdf","mytitle":"The Case Of Joanna Southcott","mylang":"de"}
THE CASE
OF
JO H A N N A SOUTHCOTT,
AS FAR AS IT CAME UNDER HIS
PR O FE SSIO N A L OBSERVATION,
IM PARTIALLY STATED,
BY
P. MATHIAS,
SURGEON AND APOTHECARY,
MABLETON PLACE,
LONDON:
PRINTED FOR THE AUTHOR;
AT THE FREESCHOOL, GOWER’S WALK, WHITECHAPEL;
AND SOLD BY
CALLOW, CROWN COFRT, SOHO; RIVINGTONS ST. PAUL'S
c h u r c h -y a r d ; . h a t c h a r d , P i c c a d i l l y , a n d u n ­
d e r w o o d , FLEET-STREET.
Price One Shilling*
Digitized by Google
Digitized by b o o g i e
I n submitting the case of J ohanna South-
cott to the Public, it is my intention to remark
as little as possible upon her pretensions or
impositions, upon the mental delusions either
of herself or her followers. But as her bodily
affections were thought to have been greatly
misunderstood or misrepresented by many of
her medical attendants, my principal object is
to shew that all, who were consulted upon this
occasion of so much notoriety, were neither
deceived in the beginning, nor disappointed at
the termination of her malady; were neither
themselves imposed upon, nor endeavoured to
impose upon others. I shall therefore state as
briefly and as intelligibly as I can, my means
of judging, and my first formed, and afterwards
confirmed opinion, of this case of supposed
pregnancy, upon a view of the subject both
alive and dead.
If I appear upon this occasion to speak too
frequently in the first person, I trust it will be
excused, inasmuch as it is scarcely to beavoided.
In the month of April, 1814, during an
attendance upon Mrs. J ane T own ley, a
Digitized by Google
4
Lady of fortune and respectability, and with
whom J ohanna Socthcott had resided for
many years, I was first consulted upou this
supposed case of pregnancy. In answer to my
enquiries respecting her age, I was informed
she was in the sixty-fourth year, and likewise
that she was a virgin. The supposition of her
being pregnant, appeared at ’
the time so ludi­
crous and preposterous, that I could not at first
consider it in a serious light; but upon the
subject being continued, and the fact insisted
upon, I was emphatically asked, would I believe
it ithen I saw the infant at the breast, and to
silence all objections at once, I was solemnly
assured, that the effect was not of human but
divine agency. I now thought it high time to
give a firm and decisive answer to questions,
evidently to my comprehension, so revolting
to common sense, and to enter my protest
against opinions so blasphemous and profane.
I said, string was believing, and that I must
be present, and have occular demonstration of
the fact, before I could believe in an event so
improbable and so unlikely to take place. I
cautioned them to be wary how they proceeded,
and to consider the consequences of attempting
a delusion so mischievous and wicked upon the
ignorant and the credulous.
This advice was so unwelcome to the parties
who consulted me, that in a few days after this
Digitized by Google
6
conversation, upon my refusing to listen any
more to so disgusting a subject, I was desired
to send in my account, and informed that my
medical attendances would in future bedispensed
with. I heard no more of this matter, except
from public report, ’till the 19th day of August,
when I was requested to call at No. 17, Weston
Place, in my first round, and no name being
mentioned, I supposed that I was wanted either
by Mrs. T qwnley, or Mrs. U nderwood, whom
I had formerly attended at the same house.
I was much surprised upon making my call, to
be ushered into the presence of the Prophetess
herself; who informed me that she had sent to
consult me on her state of pregnancy. When
I first entered, a male friend was in the room,
but retired, and Mrs. U nderwood was the only
one present during this consultation. She
proceeded to describe with great minuteness,
every symptom, such as violent sicknesses,
loathing of food, pains in the sides, particularly
the right; bilious vomitings, pain in the loins
and kidnies, frequent inclination to void urine,
this in small quantities, and with difficulty,
sometimes pale, and at other times high co­
loured, thick and muddy; shortnessofbreathing,
and difficulty of moving, if it were only across
the room; increase in size, and unusual listless­
ness; the breasts she described as enlarged,,
and having frequent excretions of a milky
Digitized by
fluid: she readily answered every question
that I put to her with an apparent degree
of candour, and submitted to every exami­
nation I thought proper, except per vaginam.
After a minute investigation of her situation
and sensations, 1told her, it was my firm opinion
that she was not pregnant, and that I could
account satisfactorily (at least to myself) for
all her symptoms. Upon being desired to ex­
plain what I considered the nature of her com­
plaints to be, I told her, I thought that the pains
she suffered arose from biliary obstructions,
and was confirmed in this opinion from her
loss of appetite, bilious vomitings, pain in the
right side, shootings up to the shoulder blade,
and pain upon pressure. That the pain in her
loins was from irritation in the kidnies ; these
sympathising with the biliary obstructions.
That the increase in her size was owing to
accumulation of fat from want of exercise, and
that her loathings and loss of appetite were
occasioned by debility ofstomach, all originating
in the same cause. I could find no appearance
of milk in the breasts; they were swoln, and
the vessels full and tumified, but more like
glandular enlargement I here learnt that her
bowels were irregular: her evacuations occa­
sionally clay coloured, sometimes black and
offensive: her skin and the white of .her eyes
appeared slightly tinged with yellow.
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
She then mentioned, that she, as well as
her femalefriends, had frequently felt something
like a child move, and when this was the case,
she frequently felt faint, and she was well con­
vinced that there was something wick* within
her, or “ might it not be water r” I told her I
was certain there was no water, otherwise I
should feel a fluctuation, and I was perfectly
convinced there was no child. She then en­
quired of me, if ever I had been called upon
to administer medicine or advice to any one
having a wolf in their inside, as she had heard
of such things: I told' her I had heard of such
strange tales, but had never met with such
strange cases. She then declared her firm per­
suasion to be, that were she not with child,
something ailed that would prove the death of
her. My reply was, that I perfectly agreed
with her in opinion, that if she was not relieved
from her present distressing symptoms, they
would eventually destroy her, and not impro­
bably before the conclusion of the year. ‘ A
little more having been said upon her imagined
or real complaints, she consented to take what
1 should prescribe, or to use her ow’n words,
subscribe, if I would faithfully promise her,
that it should not be 'any thing strong, or
of force to destroy that, which she was con­
vinced, was alive within her; and she could
* A provincial word for quick.
7
Digitized by t ^ o o g L e
assure me, that I was the only one of the many
whom she had consulted, who had any doubt
of her being pregnant; and then mentioned
several practitioners, whose names are of the
first repute, particularly that able Physician
and Accouchier, Dr. Sims. (lie, in a few
days after this conversation of mine with
J ohanna, contradicted in the public papers
this statement of his opinion.) I here said, that
however unwilling I was to differ in opinion
from men of the first consideration in their
profession, yet my own conviction was, that
she was not pregnant, that I should prescribe
accordingly, and that the remedies which I
should administer for the cure of heT disorders,
which 1 could not help considering but of a
fatal tendency, should not be of a simple
nature, of a milk and water sort.
Being now fully persuaded that she meant
to place herself under my management, I ma­
turely considered her case, and had made up
my mind how to treat it.
1 thought the first things to be attended to
were the extreme irritation of the stomach, the
general debility she laboured'under, the violent
pains she suffered, and the biliary obstructions.
In order to remove these ailments, I proposed
gm ng tonic stomachic medicines, with opiates,
and what I considered most essential to a cure,
8
Digitized by Google
small doses of hydrargyrus submuriatus, pro­
portioning them according to the state of the
*stomach, and as the biliary secretions, &c.
should be affected by them : her diet to be
light and nutritious, carefully avoiding wine,
spirits, and all fermenting liquors. I pre­
scribed accordingly, and sent her some tonic
draughts, with an opiate, purposing to admi­
nister the hydrargyrus submuriatus, if the
stomach was less irritable,, the next evening.
Before I could repeat my visit, which I designed
on the following morning, I received the an­
nexed note from Miss Townley.
“ Mrs. Southcott requests Mrs. T ownley to in­
form Mr. Mathias, that the medicines he sent for her
last night, she was answered she should not take, as he
had drawn a wrong judgment of her disorder, and there­
fore desires he will send no more ; but if the disorder, and
the effects thereof, be not removed by November, then
she begs me to inform you, that you are the only medical
man in London that she would apply to for skill, as
you was the only medical man that accounted for her
complaints, and the cause they might proceed from.
“ Saturday, August 20, 1814.”
.Having thus received my dismissal, of course
I did not wait upon her any more.
About this period, Letters appeared in the
Papers from Dr. Reece, in which he proposes,
that, having satisfied himself by actual exami­
nation ofJ ohannaSouthcott’s real pregnancy,
B
9
Digitized by Google
and knowing for certain that her followers had
made application to the Archbishop of Can­
terbury to admit her into his Palace, and *
appoint proper persons to attend her, the Lord
C hancellor should himself be applied to, and
be requested to take her under his special
care, provide her with suitable apartments,
and cause experienced Accouchiers to attend
her. About this time a Letter of J ohanna’s
appeared in the Morning Herald, dated Sep­
tember 1st, the parts which concern me are
as follow:—
* “ After Dr. Sims had passed his judgement,
I sent for a medical man, whom I knew was
strong in unbelief, that it could not be possible,
and therefore I sent to him to know if he could
prescribe any thing that would do me good, if
I was not in a family way. He heard my state­
ment from the beginning; he examined me,
and said if I was a young married woman, he
should say I was not in a family way. I asked
him what disorder he would judge I had, to
cause all the pains, sickness, and the increase
of my body : he said he looked upon it I had
been long in a debilitated state, and the severe
pain I had felt in my back was from a hurt in
the kidnies, which was the cause of all my
other complaints : that my sickness proceeded
from a lodgment of bile in my stomach, which
prevented me from having an appetite, but
10
Digitized by i ^ o o Q i e
reftiove the cause and the effects will cease.
He said he should not proceed with violent
medicines, nor should he give me milk and
water. I told him that I would not take any
thing that would be hurtful to a woman in
a family way. He sent me two draughts, but
Mr. P hillips advised me not to take them,
and I was ordered not., and sent to him to send
me no more.”
It is pretty clear that I am intended to be
described by the person strong in unbelief; and
she, by this expression, alludes to my opinion
given in April, to Miss T own ley. In the pre­
ceding part of this letter, as published by Dr.
Reece, J ohanna says, that of the nine medical
gentlemen consulted by her, six of them had
pronounced her pregnant, and three were doubt­
ful. Now if the person strong in unbelitf was
one of the latter tribe, his unbelief could not be
very strong, which suffered him to remain in a
doubting state.
I had never any doubt upon the subject: and
after examination, when I gave a decisive ne­
gative to her pretensions and conceptions, she
observed to me, “ I fear you determine thus on
account of my great age.” I replied, “ were you
much younger, my opinion, after what has this
day come to my knowledge, must be the same.”
This letter of J ohanna’s, as far it concerns
Digitized by ( ^ o o Q i e
me, is upon the whole pretty accurate and
descriptive of her complaints and their origin,
as they appeared to me. Only she substitutes
hurt for irritation in the kidnies, the effect for
the cause: for I all along attributed her com­
plaints to biliary obstructions; or, as she was
pleased to term it, bile on the stomach.
If it be here asked, why did you not before
the termination of her disease give us your
opinion of its cause, which you would now
have us to believe for the first time to be the
true one, long ago known.and discovered for
a certainty by yourself; why give it us now,
when it may appear so much like an after­
thought ? My answer is—that my opinion was
no secret; that I had no sooner formed it,
than I again and again declared it to my me­
dical acquaintance, and they can bear witness,
if it be necessary to call upon them, that it was
no other then than it is now. I was indeed
much urged by them to make it public: but
this I resisted, because I was not desirous of
appearing before the public; because I was not
at all used to write for the public; and be­
cause, if my opinion should be controverted, I
had neither mind nor leisure for controversy.
Hearing of J ohanna’s death, I had a desire,
and in my mind a right to be present, should
12
Digitized by ( ^ o o s i e
it be determined to examine the body by dis­
secting it. I accordingly addressed the fbl-
lowiilg Letter to Miss Townley :—
“ Tonbridge Place, Dec. 29th., 1814.
“ Madam.
“ Having heard through the medium of the public
papers of the death of your late friend Mrs. Southcott,
and from the circumstance, well known to yourself, of my
having expressed an opinion that she laboured under com­
plaints not connected with a state of pregnancy, I have to
request that l may be present when the body of the deceased
is opened; assuring you, that in making this request 1 am
actuated by motives far different from those of idle curiosity.
“ I remain, your obedient Servant,
“ P. MATHIAS."
In answer, I received the following Note
from her friend and amanuensis, Mrs. U nder­
wood :—
“ Dec. 29th:, 1814.
* Sir,
“ I received your letter, addressed to Mrs. Townley,
requesting permission to be present at the opening of the
body of Mrs. Soul hcott, to ascertain her disease, as your
opinion differed from some others of the faculty respecting
the pregnancy. We are perfectly satisfied of the propriety
of your request, and the friends wish to acceed to it, that you
may satisfy yourself respecting the disease. If you will be
pleased to come immediately, or as soon as you conveniently
can, to see Mrs. Southcott in her present state, to ascer­
tain that she is now actually dead, being the condition on
13
Digitized by Google
which the medical men are permitted to be present, and with
which they have already complied.
“ I remain, Sir,
“ Your humble Servant,
" ANN UNDERWOOD.”
“ 38, Manchester Street, Manchester Square”
u Please to ask for Mr. Tolhurst.”
And the day after, the following one, without
name:—
“ Mr. Mathias is requested to be at No. 38, Man­
chester Street, qrt two o'clock tomorrow. Secrecy is required
till after Friday.
" Dec. 3Qth.n
Saturday, the 31st, was the day fixed upon
for opening the body, and I was then present.
14
Digitized by Google
15
Appearances upon, Dissection.
The whole body was livid and putrid, apT
pearing as if death had taken place a very con­
siderable tim e;—but easily to be accounted
•for, from the circumstance of the room being
kept in a certain temperature, and hot applica­
tions being constantly kept to the extremities
and body, agreeably to a desire expressed by
the deceased, that this should be done for four
days after her death. The integuments being
divided in the usual manner, we were all much
surprised by the appearance of fat that pre­
sented itself, being in some parts of the abdo­
men near four inches in thickness. The intes­
tines appeared tolerably healthy, and much
inflated—they were secured, that the air con­
tained in them might not escape; the odour
from the body being most offensive, and at
times scarcely bearable. The Omentum was
next examined: on its upper surface it was
livid, but this evidently proceeded from the
heat applied, and not from disease:—it was the
largest I ever saw, being nearly four times the
usual size, and appeared one lump of fat: this
preternatural enlargement, and the thickness
of fat upon the abdomen, with the flatus of
Digitized by
the intestines, which existed, although in a less
degree, during life, satisfactorily accounts for
the extraordinary size of the deceased.
TheUterus was next examined and dissected
out. Neither the promised Shiloh nor any
other foetus was found within i t ; and it was
apparently free from disease; the ovaria were,
in a healthy state.
The Liver was next examined ; it appeared
as one putrid mass, but of its natural size : the
gall bladder was found considerably enlarged,
as well as its duct, and nearly a dozen gall
stones of various sizes and shapes (some of
them as large as marbles) were found contained
therein. The rest of the viscera were not ex­
amined minutely, from the extreme offensive­
ness of the body.
Here the friends of the deceased were anxious
that it should be ascertained, if possible, whe­
ther she had ever borne children: it was ut­
terly impossible to speak to this circumstance,
first, because the parts were so very putrid,
and because the operator, in removing the
uterus, cut through a considerable portion of
the vagina. The pains felt in the breasts, and
the fullness apparent in them, which she
ascribed to the secretion of milk, were evi­
dently occasioned by glandular enlargement;
16
Digitized by t ^ o o Q i e
for, upon cutting down upon the right breast,
there was seen to exist a considerable circum­
scribed tumor. The motion so perceptible in
the abdomen, which was considered by herself
and her believers as the incontrovertible proof
of a living child, and always persisted in by
them as demonstrative of the fact, must have
arisen from flatus escaping from one intestine
to another; and was in my interview with the
patient in August, stated as the probable cause
of the sensation, which she then described as
life within her.
The examination upon the whole proved,
that the principal viscera affected were the
liver and its ducts; the existence of gall stones
accounted for the pains in the region of the
liver, the affection of the stomach, and the con­
sequent sickness, which rejected, for the last
eight or ten weeks, all nourishment adminis­
tered either in a solid or liquid state.
The affection in the kidnies, various pains in
the loins and shoulder blade, are ascribable to
this organic derangement of the liver and gall
bladder. There appeared no other symptoms
ofa fatal tendency, if we except the exhaustion,
which the pains arising from this obstruction in
the viscera, and causing the rejection of all
nutriment from the stomach, must necessarily
create.
17
c
Digitized by Google
Medicine of every sort she invariably refused,
saying that she did not wish to outlive her
malady, if it were not occasioned by pregnancy.
There were present at the dissection of the
body the undernamed medical gentlemen, Drs.
Sims, Adams, R eece, Messrs. C larke, T aun­
ton, Want, W agstaff, W ethekall, P hil­
lips, and some others, whose names I did not
know. Add to these many of her friends and
believers.
Should the minds of the public be at this
period at all curious to learn any thing about
J ohanna Southcott and her ailments, I here
with all due respect and diffidence present them
with my opinion of her case, formed early in
the beginning of her disorder, strengthened in
its progress, and fully confirmed by its conclu­
sion. That some of the medical gentlemen
consulted by her should have mistaken her
symptoms, and accounted differently for her
complaints, is not in the least surprising. In
practice this occurs every day, with little impu­
tation upon the skill of the practitioner. But
that any one medical man should be so far
mistaken as to perceive in her signs of preg­
nancy, to believe himself, and endeavour to
persuade others to believe that they did really
exist, is as surprising, as that any one of sound,
intellect should be found to place implicit
18
Digitized by G o o g l e
confidence in her pretensions, her predictions,
and her promises. That some medical men
have been so mistaken, so imposed upon, and
so instrumental in imposing upon others, we
have their own declarations in proof; that not
only one, but multitudes of persons, who in
other respects cannot be deemed of unsound
minds, have believed from the bottom of their
souls in J ohanna’s fallacies and delusions—is
a fact—which must be allowed, and will be
hereafter with shame recorded. And all this
is a thousand times more wonderful, than all
J ohanna’s wonders of wonders!
I have often been asked, did I consider
J ohanna Southcott as insane? Certainly
not. Dr. Sims has given it as his opinion,
that she laboured under strong mental delu­
sions—but if he means here involuntary delusion,
I am obliged to differ even from so respectable
authority. If she were mad, there was more of
consistency, regularity, and of cunning work­
ing amid the overthrow of her understanding,
than ever before came under my observation.
And I have known and observed many maniacs
of all descriptions, and in every state of mental
delusiou—from the imagined king to the ideal
beggar. Crowns of paper, and sceptres of
straw, are the gewgaws'of the one: useless
pins and worthless shreds, hoarded with care,
19
Digitized by ( ^ o o Q i e
are meant to preserve the other from dreaded
want.
Notoriety, ease, and.*1affluence, appear to
have been the prevailing passions of J ohanna’s
mind. And the means which she adopted to
fulfil her desires, would seem, and have actu-
tually been proved, well calculated for the end.
Early in life, when she should have laboured
diligently with her needle, in an Upholsterer’s
employ, at Exeter, she found it much easier
to talk nonsense by- the hour, than to work
hard by the day. As her notoriety and fol­
lowers increase, she most dexterously multiplies
the means of obtaining the objects of her
wishes. She sets out, as it were, upon a voyage
of discovery, and happily finds a terra incog­
nita, ideal truly, but to her productive of sub­
stantial revenues. If the many shares in her
millenium have really been disposed of and
paid for, which are said to have been, this king­
dom of hers must have proved to her a mine of
wealth. Certainly the voluntary tribute to the
Queen of this unknown country has abundantly
maintained her in ease, state, and dignity.
No! believe me, J ohanna was more infatu­
ating than infatuated.
Her predictions were loud and frequent—full
of comfort and happiness to her own subjects—
dreadful denunciations of woe to the rebellious
20
Digitized by Google
Creatures that did not acknowledge her sove­
reignty,- and trust to her prescience. But of
their fulfilment I never heard. And her life
was very differently ordered from those,
who aforetime had the name, character, and
office of Prophets. They fasted often—watched
incessantly—and prayed continually—they lived
coarsely, and were more coarsely clad : they
upon all occasions, but when otherwise com­
manded by Him, whose servants they were,
avoided publicity, and studiously shunned the
busy haunts of m en: but J ohanna on the
contrary upon all occasions sought publicity;
to this end, when one method failed, another
was resorted to. I never could learn that she
either watched, fasted, or prayed. On the
contrary, she passed much of her time in bed—
in downy indolence—ate much and often—and
prayed—never. She loved to lodge delicately,
and feast luxuriously. Latterly, when she
would have it that she was with child, she
must have, like other Ladies in the like con­
dition, her longings too. Accordingly she
took a longing to asparagus, when it was by
no means a cheap article of food: and so strong
was her longing, that she is said to have eat
at one meal one hundred and sixty heads
before she could allay it.
If I have departed somewhat from my ori­
ginal intention by making these remarks, such
21
Digitized by v ^ - o o Q i e
22
as they are, upon J ohanna’s impositions, I
have been almost imperceptibly led astray;
and I trust this aberration will be forgiven
me.
I remain,
The Public’s most obliged,
And humble Servant,
P. MATHIAS.
tttlNTM * *AT 1HB fH M -ttUUO L, •O W M t* WAUL, W H ITIClM rSfc
Digitized by Google
