{"name":"Last Illness And Death Of Mrs Southcott","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1815__reece___last_illness_and_death_of_mrs_southcott.pdf","mytitle":"Last Illness And Death Of Mrs Southcott","mylang":"de"}
A
CORRECT STATEMENT
OP THE
C IR C U M ST A N C E S
, THAT ATTENDED
T H E L A S T I L L N E S S A N D D E A T H
OF
MRS. SOUTHCOTT,
! / . /
v WITH 4*
AN ACCOUNT
OF THE
9ppeatamea er&itrtteo on Dissection:
AND
T H E ARTIFICES T H A T W ERE E M PLO Y E D
TO DECEIVE HER MEDICAL ATTENDANTS.
BV
RICHARD REECE, M.D.
3
L
<
m
tw
«:
\
PRINTED FOR THE AUTHOR z
PUBLISHED BY SHERWOOD, NEELY,AND JONES, PATERNOSTER ROW*
AN D SOLD BY EVERY BOOKSELLER IN THE UNITED KINGDOM,
1815.
[P rice Four Shillings.'}
Digitized by Google
M1IUURD AMD VASXJnr,
SMimttr-Str—i, Ltmdn.
Digitized by Google
I*WI
*
V
^
Q
jj.
jvx
iA
L
L
W
&
t
tt
*
^oSl f*
PREFACE,
T he object in publishing this Pamphlet
is not altogether to state the part the
Author has been compelled to take, as a
Professional Character, in the late illness
o f Joanna Southcott, but to satisfy
public curiosity, and exhibit the lengths
to which fanaticism will go.
Medicine it is to,b e regretted, is still
in its infancy, and at best too much
a science 'of conjecture.— In forming his
judgment in this case, the Author was
governed by the predominant symptoms
so far as he was allowed to trace them,
5
® 3
o ■ / . >
5 4 0 8 5 6 ° ° 8 le
and without suspicion o f any impotUion
being practised. His attention to Domestic
M edicine, and his zeal in extending it for
public benefit by the publication^ o f his
Medical Guide, and other W orks, he is
sensible has raised him many professional
enemies, who have made the Newspapers
on this occasion the engine to vent their
illiberality and abuse, some even con­
necting his attendance on an infatuated
woman, with a belief in her ridiculous
doctrines. Others have ranked him with
the most ignorant characters that disgrace
the Profession, from his having given an
erroneous opinion in an instance where
at least seven more o f the profession, o f
high respectability, did the same.— T o
this he can only observe, that he has
had opportunities o f learning every branch
o f his Profession which falls to the lot of
few. For many years he held the
iv PREFACE.
Digitized by v ^ o o Q i e
PREFACE. V
respectable appointment o f Domestic Sur-
i
geon and Apothecary to the Hereford
Infirmary, to which some o f the first
M edical characters belonged. On leaving
it, he studied at the first Hospitals in the
M etropolis, and attended the principal
. Lectures, and he may be allowed, since
he has been so unjustly attacked, without
incurring the imputation o f vanity, to add,
that he has prosecuted his studies with a
degree o f ardor and assiduity equal to
any o f his cotemporaries ; and having
built such a solid foundation, it is cer­
tainly no presumption in him to think
that he is as capable o f a successful ex­
ercise o f his Profession as any whose names
appear in the list o f the two Colleges.
Every man that attempts to be con­
spicuous and useful in public Life, is
liable to the jealousy and illiberality of
his equals; but those who are his enemies,
Digitized by v ^ o o g l e
vi PBBJACB.
he has the satisfaction to state are the
enemies o f science—who wish to make
a trade o f their Profession, instead o f
cultivating it on liberal and disinterested
principles.
In answer to the ridiculous charge o f
his being a disciple o f this infatuated
impostor, be begs to state, that he is the
son o f a beneficed clergyman o f the esta­
blished Church, (the late Rev. W . Reece,
Rector o f Colwall, in the Diocese o f
Hereford), a man o f profound erudition
as an antiquarian, and o f general learning,
who early instilled in his mind the firm
principles o f religion, and those tenets o f
the Church o f England, which he hopes
have taken too deep a root to be shaken
by the reveries o f Fanaticism. Experience
and intercourse with the world, have con­
firmed in his mind his father’s instructions,
Digitized by v ^ f O O Q i e
PREFACE. VII
and fully satisfied him o f their truth.—
Every convert to Mrs. S/s doctrines will
do him the justice to declare, that he has
embraced every opportunity to combat
their delusions, and point out the folly o f
her tenets. Had 'he conceived that this
woman could have excited such public
attention, he certainly would not have
made any communication on the subject
o f her pregnancy. The result, he hopes,
will be satisfactory to the Public, as it has
given him an opportunity o f exposing her
deceptions, as a warning to the weak, ig­
norant, and deluded; and it will serve
also as a guard to every professional charac­
ter, in trusting to no appearances o f can­
dor or veracity, in circumstances where he
has an opportunity o f forming a correct
judgment.
Bolton Row,
Jan. 6th, 1815.
Digitized by Google
Digitized by Google
A STATEMENT
Ciftumattlitta attarting rftt laat Jllnftfg ,
0P
i
JO A N N A S O U T H C O rr.
T h e short period o f a few years has
brought forward events unparalleled in for*
mer times in their importance, variety,
and character. The causes o f such events
have interested thoughtful and reflecting
minds, and they have naturally looked
for an explanation o f them, in that record
which is given us as our rule o f life and
conduct. There is considered- to be pre-
B
Digitized by v ^ o o s l e
2
dieted the future destinies o f the world,
and the circumstances which are to pre-
cede and attend its dissolution. Such in­
vestigations lead a contemplative indivi­
dual often beyond its bounds ; the spirit o f
enthusiasm touches the imagination in the
pursuit, and such is the mental delusion
apt to take place in these studies, that
the idea o f inspiration animates the votary
o f Bibliographic learning, and he con­
siders himself actuated by the same spirit
which first penned the dictates o f sacred
w rit T o these observations I am led by
the peculiar situation in which I am placed
by my professional attendance on the late
M rs. Southcott, and the public, I am
persuaded, will be anxious to learn the cir­
cumstances which preceded and attended
the: death o f this singular woman.
In entering upon this- task I lay aside
entirely the idea o f her prophetic func*
tions. These must rest with those who are
able to judge o f their truth or otherwise.
A t the same time I cannot but do justice,
as an impartial person, to her character and
Digitized by v ^ o o Q i e
3
demeanor. I must adm itthat I was very
much struck with the mildness and simpli­
city o f her manners, the motherly kindness
that distinguished her behaviour, and the
artless and unaffected detail o f many
circumstances o f her life. Such a woman,
I naturally said, does not carry with her
the stamps o f imposture. There seemed to be ■
no bias to self interest in her conduct. Her
apartment was paltry and mean, and she did
not appear to be loaded with the delicacies
o f life, or to press upon her followers for
more than the bare necessaries o f exist*
ence. Her tenets correspond also to this
general feeling. There is no threat or.
persecution connected with her doctrines,
and her proselytes preserve the same regu*
larity and mildness o f conduct which seems
to flow from their founder. Thus favours
ably impressed with her at first sight,
after my curiosity had subsided, which no
doubt impelled me in the first to agree to
visit her, I was induced from public duty,
as a professional character, to continue m y
attendance, and to give her all that aid
which her peculiar situation required, and
b 2
Digitized by Google
4
which common feeling as a man to a fe­
male, suffering by disease, had a right to
claitn. I was first introduced to her as a
medical man by an old patient o f my own,
(M r. Carder, of Leicester-place), a gentle­
man o f great moral worth, o f inflexible
integrity, and o f a most pious turn o f mind.
This took place on the 7th o f August,
1314, and his object in soliciting me to
visit her was to ascertain the probability o f
her being in a state o f pregnancy, as then
given out. In consequence o f the interest
excited in a part o f the public mind, and
especially o f her followers by this circum­
stance, several other medical gentlemen
Were ap]pointed to see her. I attended at
eleven o'clock in the forenoon, and the
others were all pnnctual in their attend­
ance.
M y introduction into the place o f her
residence gave me no high opinion o f the
wealth and consequence of her followers, as
falsely given out. In the front apartment se­
veral of her proselytes were engaged in fold­
ing up.her pamphlets. I was accosted by her
Digitized by
tGoogle
principal attendant, Mrs. Townley, who,
after some common-place talk^ on the state
o f the weather, came to the subject o f m y
visit. She introduced it by stating the
divine inspiration ko f Mrs. Southcott, and
her pregnancy by supernatural influence.
She then descanted on her extreme illness,
ascribing her preservation to the peculiar
kindness o f the Almighty, and her being a,
favoured object in his sight. She had no
idea, she added, that her life was in danger,
and she expressed her astonishment that
the bishops had not come forward to Ex­
amine into the truth o f her mission.
She continued this discourse till it was
announced that Mrs. Southcott was ready
to receive my visit, when I was ushered
into a small front room, where she sat, and
on my entering rose, and politely received
me,.with that air o f unaffected simplicity,
which forcibly struck me at the moment.
On my being seated she commenced the
history o f her sufferings from the period erf
her pregnancy— stating, that from the time
o f her quickening (which was' in M ay) she
had been subject to the Usual complaints
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
<5
o f the stomach incident to that situation,
as nausea, sickness, and a disordered state
o f digestion^ X allowed her to proceed in
the whole o f her statement without inter­
ruption, and after noticing her internal
complaints, she came to mention the
-changes that had taken place on her
breasts, which from being flat and sunk,
had expanded and become considerably
enlarged and plum p; that the same altera­
tion had occurred in her belly, which had
grown to a prodigious size, and that she
had become thin about her loins; that
hey regular monthly appearance had left
her for at least fifteen years. Having
stated these circumstances, she then put
to me the following pointed question,
Sir,” says she, “ were Xa young woman,
and had been married seven or eight
months, would you suppose, from the
symptoms I have related, I was in the fa­
mily way ?’ I immediately replied, from
her statement, “ I could have no doubt o f
it.” But at the same time, from the ap­
pearance o f age in her face, such a circum­
stance seemed highly improbable. This
I
respark seemed not to please her, and assum-
• ing an elevated tone o f voice, and a fierce­
ness o f aspect, she observed, “ This will not
satisfy the public; I expect to be abused
as an impostor, and all planner o f ill-na­
tured things will be said o f me, nay, the
public may blame you for giving an opi?
nion on ray own statement, so that what-?
Over proofs you require you shall, have"
There was a candour in this proceeding
entirely above deception, and prepossessed
me still more in favour o f the correct moral
principles o f tips singular w om an./ Ip
every examination she a'cquiesced, except
one, which the delicacy o f her feelings as
a virgin rejected, observing, that had she
been a married woman, even to this she
would have readily agreed. This exami­
nation had been proposed to her by P r.
Walshman, the bare idea o f which had
shocked her, and made her very, ill, and
her warning spirit had desired her not. to
submit to such a proceeding, for the Uord
would not impose on her more than she
could heap After this explanation Mrs.
Underwood, her attendant, who .was pre-
7
Digitized by ^ o o s l e
8
sent arose, and assisted her to remove the
coverings from her breasts. The appear­
ance o f her breasts on inspection astonish^
ed me. They exhibited the picture o f a
young woman in the seventh month o f
pregnancy, being equally full, plunip, and
expanded: This fulness, on a close exami­
nation; consisted also o f a real enlarge­
ment o f the mammary glands, that pari
peculiarly destined for the secretion o f
milk: There was no appearance o f disease
or tendency to irregular enlargement, mor­
bid hardness, or schirrosity. All was ap­
parently* healthy. The nipples also were
elongated, but the skin found the areola
or disk was not so red or so clearly marked
ias in common cases o f pregnancy, circum­
stances which I considered as connected
with her age, and with that scaly surface
which is apt to cover it at an advanced
period - o f life.4 The left breast appeared
somewhat larger than the right one, a fact
noticed by herself.
Having thus satisfied myselfo f the change
in her breasts, I was next permitted, to
Digitized by Google
9
examine her-belly*, Here- I discovered an
alteration eqiially conspicuous and striking*
In that part occupied by the womb, where
its expansion equals: what takes place in
the seventh month o f pregnancy, I felt .a
hard circumscribed tumor, not less than the
siee o f a man’s head, bearing the shape o f
the womb, add on tracing its edges round,
I had no doubt o f its being really the en­
largement o f that organ., It was peculiarly
bard to the feel, and, she declared, acutely
painful on the slightest pressure. This cir­
cumstance I attributed to the rigidity o f fibre
necessarily attendant on age. Having fir
nished my examination, she then asked me
if I thought she was pregnant. M y reply
to her was in these words, “ That the fulness
o f the bell)’ appeared to be produced by an
enlargement o f the w om b; but whetherit
was the effect o f pregnancy could only be
established by the motion o f the child.”
On this statement I was allowed to keep
roy right hand over the belly for the space
o f ten minutes, but in this time I felt no
m otion o f a child, upon which she ob-
Digitized by Google
10
served that it was always very quiet in the
presence o f a stranger in the room, but
particularly troublesome and active when
she took food. The experiment wasaccord*
ingly tried,and on Mrs. Underwood putting
a piece o f a peach into her mouth, which she
began to masticate, I felt something move
under my hand, possessing a kind o f undu­
lating motion, and appearing and disappear*
ing in the same manneras a foetus. The in*
teguments or coverings o f the belly I had
occasion to observe were very flaccid j but
this 1 considered as the natural effect o f
age.
After a full inspection o f what I deem­
ed necessary to fix my opinion, she was
anxious to know my real sentiments; and
in requesting it she coupled her question
with this observation, that 1 should put her
time o f life entirely out o f mind, and form
my judgment on the apparent symptoms,
the same as if she were a female o f only
thirty years o f age. M y reply was, *
*That
the symptoms favoured pregnancy, but her
Digitized by i ^ o o Q i e
n
period o f life opposed the supposition; that
the enlargement both o f the breasts and
womb were doubtful symptoms, as the
same might take place from disease, and
the former were often sympathetically af­
fected in morbid states o f the latter organ;
but when these symptoms were accompa­
nied with a sensible motion in the womb,
I never could hesitate in pronouncing it a
case o f pregnancy, and that this actually
was my opinion "of her situation: that
though it would have been more satisfactory
to me to have formed my judgment from
internal examination also, yet it was never
my practice to urge such a proceeding
where the feelings o f the patient opposed
it ” I then prescribed for her some sto­
machic medicines, suited to the pregnant
state, after which I took hay leave o f her,
accompanied by M r. Carder, at whose
desire, as already stated, my visit was
made.
The conversation between us in leaving,
Mrs. Southcott turned on the subject o f her
\
Digitized by ( g o o g l e
12
supposed inspiration, which he and the
other twelve o f her elect, he observed, had
no doubt pf, and did not consider any re­
port necessary to confirm their faith. That
their opinion o f her integrity was above being
shaken, that she was incapable o f im p os­
ture, and her pregnancy could accordingly
only be by supernatural agency, a happy
circumstance for the world at large, since
the child to be born was actually the Holy
Ghost personified, who would tie down the
Devil, to use his own expression, and es­
tablish the Millennium so devoutly to be
wished by all kindreds and people. The ap­
pearance o f the mammary glands I consi­
dered the leading point in her favor, and
when I contrasted all the appearances with
the mildness o f her deportment, as well as
the behaviour o f her attendants, I saw no
^reason for supposing the smallest deception.
There seemed no wish or desire to make this
an engine for procuring wealth, on the con­
trary, policy would have taught her to adopt
a different plan; for had there been no preg­
nancy brought forward, the sectmight have
- gone on successfully for an unlimited period;
Digitized by G o o g l e
which' this'' circumstance* i f not • true,
would infallibly terminate. She had esta­
blished her prophetic mission in the minds
o f her people, and the system she had
broached might have continued its influ­
ence long after her death.— Her sect might
in fact be said to have been established.
A few days after I had delivered my
opinion o f Mrs. Southcott's case, I was
waited on by M r. Philips, an apothecary,
in the habit o f visiting her professionally,
with the request, that I would permit a visit
from several o f her followers, who wished
i
to have my opinion o f her real situation
from my own lips. To this I readily ac­
quiesced, and appointed their attendance
at two o’clock in the afternoon, when I was
waited on by eight or nine o f her friends, o f
different descriptions. They were headed
by the Rev. M r. Foley, a respectable clergy­
man o f the established church, who resides
in Worcestershire, who addressed me as to
the object o f their visit, and requested my
sentiments.— This I clearly stated to be in
favor o f her pregnancy, on which M r. Foley
J
Digitized by ^ o o Q i e
u
observed, that he had known Mrs. South*
cott for many years, that he had full con*
viction o f her being in every respect a real
good woman, and had no doubt o f her in*
spiration. This was confirmed by another
person who had the appearance o f a
Quaker, declaring that to his knowledge
she had not been in the presence o f a man
for the last twelve months, till visited pro­
fessionally, and her conception there­
fore could only be by the Holy G host!!!
Another, who had the appearance o f a
Jew, casting up his eyes, declared, with
much fervor, it was a miraculous concep­
tion !!! M y attention was afterwards en­
gaged in a conversation with M r. Foley
on her divine mission. This gentleman is
a near relation o f Lord Foley. He con­
demned the conduct o f the bishops for
their supineness, and want o f curiosity in
not coming forward to investigate the
business, and lamented much the death
o f the late Dr. Herde, Bishop o f Worcester,
who thought favorably o f Mrs. Southcott’s
doctrines. He had himself applied to the
present bishop, who had declined to in-
2
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
terfere. Itt this visit M r. italey behaved
with all the politeness o f the gentleman,
and expressed his wish to see me at his
rectory. He is a man O f superior under­
standing, great benevolence, and one who
does honor to the clerical character.
Some time after this, on the 25th o f
August, the following Letter appeared in'
the Times newspaper, calling on any o f the
professional characters, who had visited
Mrs. Southcott, to state their opinion o f
her situation, and satisfy the public Cu­
riosity.
To the Editor o f the Times.
' “ Sib ,
- “ W ill any o f yonr readers bare the.goodness to
inform me, whether any o f the bishops, to whom
Joanna Southcott sent her book and portrait, have done
any thing to expose her imposture. You consider her,
and that very justly, as only capable o f deceiving the
most ignorant; o f whom, it is dear, she haa deceived
a great number. She says, ‘ the number o f those who
have signed since 1808, when the sealing was stopped,
and have had no seals given them yet, amounts to six
thousand four hundred and upwards.’ . What was tb*
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
3(5
Cause o f His stopping ? Who are the medical gentle*
men that are said to concur in her statements respecting
herself.
“ A lew.more facts would give grounds for any ap-
plication to procure her confinement.
“ W ”
“ August c
23, 1814."
This letter I was induced to answer,
from a regard to truth, as well as public
du ty; a duty incumbent on every man
o f integrity to exercise. M y answer was
accordingly couched in the following words,
and inserted in the Sunday Monitor.
To the Editor o f the Sunday Monitor.
« Sir,
An anonymbus writer in the Times paper of this
day, for the avowed purpose of collecting facts, that
may afford ‘ sufficient grounds fo r an application to
procure the confinement o f Joanna Southcott,* inquires,
( who are the medical gentlemen that are said to con­
cur in her statements respecting hersglf?’ Supposing
that the-correspondent alludes to the report of the
pregnancy of Joanna Southcott, I shall briefly state
the facts which 1 ascertained on a visit I paid to her
•n Wednesday, the 18th instant, by the desire of one
Digitized by v ^ o o Q i e
I t
Of her friends:—I was admitted into her apartment
about eleven o'clock in the forenoon; and after hearing
the statement of her complaints, she allowed me id
make such examination as 1 might consider necessary, .
for the purpose of ascertaining whether she was preg*
nant or not. On examining the breasts, I found them
much enlarged, particularly the mammary glands. The
abdomen was much distended; and, on minute exa­
mination, appeared to be from enlargement o f the
womb. These facts not being sufficient evidence of the
pregnancy, I expressed a wish to be permitted to keep,
my right band over the Womb, for the purpose o f dis­
covering the motion of the foetus, on which she ob­
served, that it generally moved when she took nourish-
vment; a piece o f ripe fruit was then handed to her by
her female attendant, on masticating which I dis­
covered a motion resembling that of a fetus*
“ In the early period of pregnancy, it is often very
difficult to ascertain whether-the uterus be impregnated
or not; but, in an advanced stage, when the peculiar
uadulatory motion of the child is evident on external
examination, there can be no doubt of the fact of preg­
nancy, particularly when accompanied with enlarge­
ment o f the mammary glands, or the presetted of milk
in the breasts* ~
a Having thus satisfied my mind of the pregnancy
o f Joanna Southcott, I applied for a certificate o f her
age, which I received this morning* and of which the
following is a copy :—
€
Digitized by Google
19
‘ Joanne, the daughter o f William and Hannah
* Southcott, baptized the 6th day o f June
* 1750, asappears by the Register o f Baptism
*o f Otlery St. M ary’s Parish, Devon.
<(Signed) Richard Seaward,
* Parish Clerk.’
■*i I Regard the pregnancy o f Joanna Southcott ex­
traordinary only in a professional point o f view. O f
her Prophecies 1 am ignorant, and I beg to assure
the writer in the Times, that 1 shall be happy to lend
my aid for the purpose o f detecting and exposing a
species of imposture, which, o f alt others, I consider
tlie most infamous. If this be the real object o f the
gentleman, I should suppose that he can have no ob­
jection to put his name to the letters he may think
proper to address to the public on this subject, as I
consider anonymous charges and insinuations unworthy
of notice.— I am, Sir,
“ Your obedient Servant,
“ (Signed) Richard Reecb."
Piccadilly, August 2fr, 1814.
After this letter appeared, I was in­
formed Mrs. Southcott had been also visited
by Dr. Adams, Mr. Wetherell, and Mr.
Phillips; and that they had all declared
her in a state o f pregnancy, after making
a full and satisfactory examination. In-
Digitized by t ^ o o Q i e
19
deed the two last gentlemen left with Mrs*'
Underwood the following testimony, de­
claratory o f their sentiments.
“ After having examined the breasts and abdomen
of Mrs. Southcott, I am decidedly o f opinion that she
is pregnant.”
Signed by M r. W etberell.
One to the same purport was signed by
Mr. Phillips. Mr, Foster, an experienced
accoucheur, and a Mrs. Lock, had also
stated their opinions to the same purport.
Dr. Adams had likewise certified the
same, in the presence o f Mr. Wetherell
*and Mr. Phillips; but his certificate Mrs.
Underwood did not possess*
The public attention was now fully
awakened to the medical opinions on this
mysterious conception; and accordingly
the following letters appeared in the public
Journals on the subject;—
To the Editor o f the Morning Advertiser.
“ S i r ,
“ It is stated in the Morning Chronicle o f Saturday
last, that two respectable Accoucheurs have given it aa
C 2
i Digitized by Google
20
their opinion, that Joanna Soutbcott is with child,
without their names or any reference.
“ I consider that I should not be doing my duty to
those poor deluded people who are in her belief and
the public at large, were I not, after- having had an
opportunity of seeing her, to state the result of such a
visit. I was informed, before I was introduced, that
she was to express her own feelings, and I was to be
allowed to judge accordingly; and 1feel confident that
no one will notice the mode of inquiry, but will see the
imposition that was tried to be practised on me, or ra­
ther the trap in which 1 had like to have been caught.
She desired that 1 would lose all idea of her being
Joanna Soutbcott, and consider her a young woman
about four or five and twenty yean o f age, and that
she had been married about twelve months. She then
described as her own feelings, the symptoms o f preg­
nancy from first to last, and then again reminded me
of the age she wished to be considered, and desired me
to state what 1 should say o f a person labouring under
- such symptoms. Had I answered the question in this
shape, I certainly must have said such a person is
pregnant; but the purport o f my visit being to judge
o f her under.all her circumstances, I told her she most
decidedly was not in the actuation she wished to im­
press upon the minds of those who follow her.
“ I am, Sir, with respect, your’s,
“ J. C.'H.
4
4August 26, 1814. ISO, Ratcliffe-Highway*”
Digitized by v ^ o o s l e
21
To the Editor o f the Times.
“ S i r ,
“ Permit me to remonstrate with you on the im­
propriety into »which you have fallen; as well as the
rest o f our journalists, on the subject o f the scandalous
delusion now passing upon the public, in the person
and pretensions of Joanna Southcott* The more thte
imposture is brought forward, particularly in respect­
able papers, like yours, the greater attention does it
excite, till at length many weak persons, whose hearts
are better than their understandings, begin to wonder
and to become credulous. I wish that the parish
officers, or. the magistrates, would put a stop to the
mischiefat once, by taking up this deceiver as a com*
moo cheat, and placing her in a situation, where the
silly fools, who now come from all parts of the king­
dom on purpose to pay he^ homage, may be prevented
from having any access to her without proper authority.
It is a fact, that in consequence of what the newspapers
have for some time been relating about this woman,
shoals ofenthusiasts, with more money in their pockets
than brains in their skulls, are now pouring into Lon­
don and its vicinity, to behold this chosen vessel! It
is therefore full time for the conservators of the peace
and good manners of the kingdom to interfere; not
indeed to persecute any one, but to enforce what the
laws have wisely provided as a salutary check against
the influence of those knaves, who, by assuming a claim
to supernatural power, would, if suffered to practise
Digitized by b o o g i e
22
their arts of deception, counteract all the labours
o f reason and piety. Before I have done, a word
seems to be due to Mr. Richard Reece, who has very
officiously obtruded himself upon the public notice, in
this silly concern, without having had $ny warrant or
pall to meddle in the%matter. Unfortunately, in the
present instance, his testimony is o f such a nature, as
to convey an idea to the minds of most readers, that,
£t least, something marvellous is in embiyo; and those
o f your readers who are acquainted with the history
pf impostures, will recollect, that Mary Tofts, the
rabbit-breeder, of Godaiming, would not have gone on
so long as she did, bad it not been for the ridiculous
part which some medical men tool* on that occasion.
• f( Patteras, August 30, 1814.” J
T o the preceding letters I made «
reply, addressed to the Editor o f the
Sunday Monitor, o f which the following
}$ a c o p y :
** In a morning paper o f the 90th alt. a medical gen?
tleman, under the signature of J. C. H. observes, that
‘ He should nqt be doing his duty to those poor de­
luded people who are in the beliefof Joanna Soutbcott,
and the public at large, were he not, after having an
ppportunity o f seeing her, to state the result o f such 9
“ J. W .”
« I
Digitized by Google
23
visit/ He then proceeds to assert, that *aft imposition
was tried to be practised on him, or rather a trap, in
which he had like to be caught.’ This trap be explains
to be a request made by Joanna Sout&cott, that, ifh
giving bis opinion of her situation, be would divest bis
mind of all prejudice of her inspiration and age, and
consider her a married woman o f about twenty-four
years/ One would suppose, Mr. Editor, that a mediedl
man, employed on such an occasion, would not pay the
least attention to the statement of a woman who was
^represented a$ an impostor of the worst description in
nil our public journals. Ilis doty was to notice such
symptoms only, the existence of which he had an opk
portuhity to ascertain. Mr. J. C. H. who, 1understand,
“is Mr. Hopgay, o f llatcliffe-Highway, •
was allowed to
make the same examinations as was afforded to tfe
other medical gentlemen who attendedfcer, oi* which
be has thought proper to be silent. Joanna Soutfeeott,
I find, was examined by nine medical practitioners,
o f some eminence in London, six of whom pronounced
her to be pregnant* and the other three declined to give
Mdecided opinion, principally on account of her age.
Tbs enlargement of the maiwnaryglands anddistention
of the uterus, I allow are not unequivocal proofs Of
pregnancy^ but if, with these signs, a motion resent*
Ming that of a fcetas can be distinctly felt in the uterus^
no medical man, l presume, would hesitate a moment
in pronouncing the person to be pregnant. 1 beg leave
.to ash those gentlemen who declined to hazard an opi*
nion/respecting the pregnancy of Joanna Southed**, arid
1 shall really be greatly obliged to them to answer my
quasiions either anonymously or otherwise, whether the
Digitized by b o o g i e
24f
Symptoms noticed abore were not evident to them on
the examination they made? and whether a medical
man on external examination, could possibly mistake
any motipn of the uteru9, or the viscera, produced by
the action of the abdominal muscles, or diaphragm, lor
that of a foetus in the uterus ? The peculiar undulatoiy
motion of a foetus, in my opinion, is very different to
that occasioned by %su<jdei> contraction of tbo ahdorai-
pal omsste9!
# As the professional men who have attended Joanna
Bouthcott will be apprised of her labour when it takes
places 1 hope they will all attend; indeed, so far from
being her ^vish to have it conducted privately, I know
that applications have been made to the Archbishop o f
Canterbury to appoint a person to attend her as accou­
cheur, and to procure for bar suitable apartments,
which his Grace has, perhaps, very properly, refused
to do, under the idea, that such a measure would tend
to confirm her followers in the belief o f her being in­
spired. The pregnancy of a woman in the 65th year of
her age, is, in modern times, a novel occurrence, and
deserves to be recorded* With respect to the operation
pf the law, I consider it worthy of notice; causes
haying been determined in the House of Lords against
claimants born in foreign countries, on the presump­
tion that their mothers were, at the time of their birth,
too fiir advanced in life to bear children, although one
(Lady Jane Gray) was atxrtit ten years younger than
Joanns Southcott. If then, in this point of view, the
fase of Joanna be interesting, it is o f great consequence
that fts guthentjcity should not be called ip question ft
Digitized by Google
25
any future period. For the purpose of avoiding de­
ception, and any ground for suspicion or misrepre­
sentation, might not the L6rd Chancellor, with great
propriety, take her under his protection, place her in
a decent apartment, and appoint accoucheurs of ex­
perience and respectability to attend her ? Such an in­
terference could not possibly be considered by her fol­
lowers as countenancing the marvellous part of the bu­
siness, andfor which, I understand, her followers, and
1 think 1 may say the public in general, would feel
much indebted to hid Lordship.
“ A writer in the Timts paper of this day has thought
proper to animadvert on my conduct in ‘ having very
officiously obtruded myself on the public notice in this
silly concern, without having had any warrant or call
to meddle in the matter.’ The writer, I presume, is
not aware that the letter I addressed to you is a reply
to a question put by a correspondent in the Times paper,
respecting the report of the medical men on the situa­
tion of Joanna Southcott. Supposing the object of that
writer was to collect facts, I frankly stated what I
Jtnew of her situation, and, on this account, I did not
conceal my name. If the anonymous writer in the
Times paper will take the trouble to read the concluding
part o f the letter I addressed you, he will find that so
far from countenancing the idea of the inspiration pf
Joanna Southcott, I offer my assistance to detect an
imposition which, of all others, 1 consider most infa­
mous. To make use of the sacred name ofour Saviour,
and pervert the meaning of the Gospel, for the diabo­
lical purpose o f imposing on the credulous and weak,
Digitized by Google
2 8
thought an examination was necessary, and as I ]>ad
been acquainted with Mr. Wetherell, and himself and
Mr. Phillips were strangers, he desired Mr. Wetherell
would examine me, and they would quit the room.9
Bfr. Wetherell examined me in the same manner yoq
did, and laid it before Dr. Adams and Mr. Phillips,
and Dr. Adams prescribed for me accordingly.
“ As the Bishops had refused to send in their pbysi*
cians, I had liberty for the friends to send in theirs,
from which Mr. Walker applied to Dr. Watchman, and
i Mr. Owen applied to a Mr. Horflf. I then sent to Dr.
Adams, to beg the favour of his meeting them; he
called upon me and said he would attend; 1 asked him
if he had ever such a case brought before him, o f a
woman at my age; he said, N o never, neither bad he
ever heard of such a case, therefore they could only pjiss
their judgment from the symptoms and appearance, was
it in a young woman, but this was a cause could not be
reasoned upon.
“ On the Wednesday following, he met the Gentle*
men, as appointed, when Dr. Walchman came, lie
proposed an internal examination, and said the Me­
dical Men should not come up all together, but one at a
time, and give their opinions separately. Dr. Adams
then came up, and, after external examination, said I
had every symptom of a woman in a pregnant state,
and wrote down his judgment thereon. He then told
me of Dr. Walchman’s proposal ofexamination, that it
would be closer than he had done, as he himself exa­
mined me in the same manner you did. I asked Dr.
Digitized by Google
29
Adams what Dr. Walchman meant by a closer exami-
nation, he then explained what the other meant; this
filled me with such horror, that I immediately said I
would not submit4o that, for if they could not judge
from my situation, and the examination he had made,
then I said I would waif till the child made its appear*
ance strorig enough to be seen and felt, without axyr
examination at all. Dr. Adam4 said he himself should
not have made such a request, but Dr. Watchman re­
fused seeing me, unless I would submit to such an ex­
amination; this 1 said I never would submit to, but
leave it to time, that would prove whether there was a
child or not. Dr. Adams informed Dr. Walchman of
my determination, and they left the house, and 1neither
saw Dr. Walchman or Dr: Horff.
“ This being talked of, that medical men were ad­
mitted, a Mr. Meallin, a surgeon, applied to have per-
mission; being a stranger, he was requested to leave
his address, and Mr. Phillips waited upon him. He
gave a reference to Drs. Heavyside, and Pearson, after
that became, with Mr. Phillips, and after hearing my
statement, and examining me externally, he said he had
no doubt of my being in a pregnant state, though lie
said it was a wonderful case. 1 told him the proposals
Dr. Walchman had made of Examination, at which he
seemed surprised, and said he conceived he could be no
judge from such an examination, of a woman at my
age.
“ The Monday following, Mr. Forster came, and
after laying the whole of my case before him, and he*
Digitized by v ^ o o Q i e
96
examined me, be gave it m bis opinion, if it was a-
young woman, there was no doubt o f my being in a
pregnant state. When I mentioned to him the pro*
posals Dr. Welchman had made of an internal examine*
tion, he said like Mr. MealKn, he could be no
firam that, at my time o f life, and the advanced time o f
the pregnancy; as those examinations took place at an
early period, at Ladies9 own desire, when they were
not dear o f being in the family way, and wished to
know; or at a time, when they went beyond the time
to bring on the pain, or to ascertain the cause, if not
' pregnant; he gave liberty for anyone to call upon him,
and lie would give his opinion.
u The next day Mrs. Forster came, and Mrs. Lock,
a female midwife, and two others that have had fami­
lies ; afterlaying my case before them, and being strictly
examined by the women, they all passed their judgment
there was not a doubt of my being in a pregnant state;
after the examination, as we sat conversing together, 1
felt the life working very strong within me. Mrs.
Forster was sitting,dose by my side, and perceived it,
she immediately laid her hand over me, and said she
felt the life of the child as strong as she ever felt one o f
. her own in her life $Mrs. Lock felt it likewise, the other
two saw its movements. The following day, you, Sir,
came yourself, your judgment I need not mention.
“ The next morning Dr. Sims came with Mr. W c-
therell, he heard all the symptoms, and examined me,
but gave it as his opinion I was not with child, though
ha would not say it was impossible, for all things were
2
Digitized by Google
31
possible with God, yet he himself should not pass his
opinion ! was in the family way, but said he would not
take it upon him to say I was not, neither would be
give any opinion of the cause that' had produced the
effects I bad fek, or the increase o f my size; when I
asked him what he tirould prescribe for me to prevent
my sickness and pain, or to bring me to an appetite, he
mentioned the same as Dr. Adams had prescribed for
me, but would not prescribe any thing further; he said
he should suppose such an event as this, if it took
place, would not be hid in a corner. I told him, n o;
there must be physicians and medical men present. H o
said he should be glad to be one, that he should be
happy to be a witness for me against his own judge­
ment.
“ When.he went down stairs, Mr. Wetherell asked
him what grounds be had. to suppose 1 was not in the
family way; he assigned but one reason, but said if I
was deceived; 1 was not a deceiver, as I gave liberty
fpr every examination that was necessary. After this
some ladies came to see me; and. upon mentioning Dr.
Sims’s reason for his opinion, one o f the ladies said,
I have had eleven children, and the objection he
mentioned happened to me with every one of them;
therefore 1 find there is no rule without an exception.
This lady, in examining me, said, there was no doubt
o f my being in a pregnant state. The same judgment
has been passed by all those whom I have seen that
have been mothers of children, as I have had the advice
and opinion of many.
Digitized by t ^ o o Q l e
32
“ After Dr. Sims had passed hisjudgment, I seat for
a medical man, whom I knew was strong in unbelief,
that it could not be possible, and therefore-1 said I
sent for him, to know if he could prescribe anjr
thing that would do me good, if I was not in the fa­
mily way. He heard my statement from the begin­
ning, he examined me, and said if I was a young married
woman, he should say, I was not in the family way.
1 asked him what disorder he would judge I had to
cause all the pains, sickness, and the increase of my
body : be said he looked upon it I bad been long in a
debilitated state, and the severe pain 1 had felt in my
back was from a hurt in the kidnies, which was the
cause of all my other complaints; that my sickness
proceeded from a lodgment of bile in my stomach,
which prevented me from having an appetite; but re­
move the cause and the effects would cease. He said
he should not proceed with violent medicines, neither
should he give me milk and water. I told him I would
not take any thing thatJ thought would be hurtful to
a woman in the family way : he sent am two draughts,
but Mr. Phillips advised me not to take them, and I
was ordered not, and I sent to him to send me no
more.
“ Soon after be was gone, Mr. Hopgay came, he
heard the statement, and examined my breasts, and
outside my clothes, said there was no occasion for any
further examination. 1 asked him what would be his
judgment if I was a young married woman: he said
that was an unfair question, and he would not answer
it; he was then desired to answer in his own way : he
Digitized by Google
S3 '
said he did not think I was with child, but his judg­
ment might not be worth twopence. *I then inquired
what he thought my disorder was: he said I had no
disease, no disorder, but was in perfect health. He
wished he might be deceived in his judgment*; and, if
so, should be glad to come forward against his own
judgment. After he was gone, I thought his judgment
could not be worth a penny, to say I had no disease,
no disorder, and was in perfect health, when I had
suffered from pain, sickness, loss of appetite, and had
gone through more than I ever experienced in my life,
from the 17th of March to that time; and, at that time,
could keep nothing upon my stomach but fruit, vege­
tables, and liquids, nothing solid could 1 take. How
he could call this good health 1 know not.
“ Here I have given a clear statement of the different
judgments of the medical gentlemen that 1 Was ex­
amined by; so, if any other statement is brought b j
men, it is from those who have not s&n me. Nine 1
have seen; six out o f the nine passed their opinion,I
was in a state o f pregnancyx the other three said I was
not; therefore I was ordered that no more examinations
should take place. What had been already, was suf­
ficient to shew the different judgments of men.
' " Since 1 saw you, I have found a considerable al­
teration in myself, by feeling the life much stronger,
and moving in different ways to what it had before,
and more particularly this last week since I had &
journey in the coach, when I removed from my own
hquse, I felt it n^uch lower, and much greater weight.
D
Digitized by G o o g l e
34
Mr. Carder will give you the particulars how I have
been for this week past, that my appetite returned,
and my pain and sickness left me, though in other
respects the feeling of life within is greater than ever;
but, should it prove not to be a child in the end, it
must bring me to the grave; but as you have come
forward with your judgment to the public, and will be
attacked for so doing, I wish to put evety weapon in
your hand, that if there is a possibility of my being
deceived, that the life within should bring death upon
me, without making its appearance in the world, I
now promise to give you liberty to open my body, that
you may find out the cause which produced all these
effects, what life was in me to cause all these pains and
sickness, like travail pains, the increase o f the size of
my body, which have increased so much within a few
months, so that either in death or life you will be
enabled to judge ofa cause, that never was brought be­
fore medical m&i, o f a woman at my age.
* I remain, Sir,
Yours,
With the greatest respect,
J o a n n a S o u t h c o t t .”
“ The above taken from Joanna Southcott’s mouth
by me, “ A n n U n d e r w o o d .”
“ P. S. Mr. Phillips, being in attendance upon Mrs.
Southcott on the 12th of August, said, on putting his
hand on that part of the abdomen, which a distended
womb would occupy, he distinctly felt a strong motion,
similar to such that might be expected in a female about
seven months expired in pregnancy.”
Digitized by v ^ - o o Q l e
The interest thus so stroilgty excited*
induced Dr. Sims, whose practices, I be­
lieve, are chiefly confined to midwifery, tq
pay a visit officially to this singular cha­
racter, and in consequence o f that visit
and an examination he then made, he
addressed the following letter, dated Sept.
3d, 1814, to the public, through the me­
dium o f the Morning Chronicle, declara­
tory o f his opinion on the subject.
To the Editor o f the Morning Chronide.
“ S i r ,
a Several persons having expressed a wish that I
would visit Joanna Southcott, that they might foe bet*-
ter satisfied what foundation there was for a report
that she was pregnant, I consented to accompany one
of her friends, a surgeon and accoucheur o f experience,
for that purpose, on the 18th of August. He informed
me, on my way thither, that the most satisfactory ex­
amination would not be permitted, but that this was
not at all necessary, as no professional man could have
a doubt of her situation, upon seeing the state of her
breasts, and feeling the outside of her abdomen.
<
c Her appearance gave no reason to doubt the truth
o f her statement, that she was in her sixty-fifth year,
and that she had ceased to menstruate since she was
forty-eight; circumstances under winch her pregnancy
D 2
35
Digitized by Google
56
was naturally incredible, and, were it real, might well
enough have induced a belief that it was supernatural.
“ I endeavoured, however, not to prejudge the case,
but to form my opinion of her situation from the symp*
toms alone, as 1 should have done had she been only
forty-five years of age, and therefore within the period
of probable pregnancy.
ct It is quite unnecessaiy here to relate her conver­
sation, in which she asserted, that she had been com­
manded to keep her apartment, and to admit no male
to visit her for a period of some months; suffice it to
say, that, during this term, she stated herself to have
conceived of a son, who would be born before the
harvest was over. She shewed me her breasts, which
she said had been before flabby and shrivelled, with
the nipple drawn in : they were now plump, the veins
large and visible, the nipple red and protruded : they
had not, however, the elasticity natural to the breast of
a pregnant woman, and the areola was pale, partly
covered with a little whitish scurf, and the outer circle
not at all defined, but growing very gradually fainter. *
They gave me, upon the whole, more the idga of the
breasts of an old woman grown corpulent than those
of a pregnant woman. She stated, however, that she
was in general grown thinner, especially about the
back.
“ The feel of the abdomen through her linen was
, not unlike that of a woman in the eighth month of her
pregnancy, but, as it seemed'to me, less hard, except
Digitized by Google
ST
at the lower part, where there appeared to be a solid
tumour, reaching not far above the pubes. I proposed
to put my finger upon the navel, without any cover­
ing, which was permitted. Thi? part I found sunk in,
not at all protruded as in pregnancy. In making this
examination I was not sensible of any motion, which
she insisted upon being so strong, that she could not
only feel it herself, but that it had been seen by others
who were sitting near her.
“ In enumerating the symptoms, she mentioned sick-,
ness at stomach, vidlent pain about the period of
quickening, and great increase of the sickness, with
bilious vomitings at that time; nor did she omit a sort
of longing,or extraordinary craving for asparagus,
when' she had otherwise a total loss of appetite; but
the order of these symptoms was not according to
their usual occurrence, the sickness, instead o f ceasing
at the quickening, becoming at that time much more
excessive.
u Considering all the above appearances, I did not
hesitate to declare it to be my opinion, that Joanna
Southcott was not pregnant: but was told I was the
first medical man that had seen her that was not. per­
fectly satisfied of the contrary*
“ I believe that her uterine organs are diseased, and
that the breasts, as is usual, sympathizing with those
parts, have an increased quantity of blood determined
to them. Had I thought the external appearances such
as ought to lead to a belief in her pregnancy, i should
have urged the propriety of her submitting to a morq^ *
Digitized by Google
satisfactory examination, but feeling, as I did, a per*
feet conviction that she was not with child, it seemed
to me unnecessary to insist upon any further inquiry.
cc Having observed, in the newspapers, that assert
tions are repeatedly made, that eminent accoucheurs
have declared this woman to be pregnant, I am desi-
roas not to be reckoned of that number. ,Yet, before
1 conclude, I feel it right to say, that I am convinced
that this poor woman is no impostor, but that she la­
bours under a strong mental delusion.
J o h n S i m s .”
“ September 3d, 1814.
This letter called on me, who had given
an opposite statement, to make a reply,
which I did in the following manner.
To the Editor o f the Sunday Monitor,
Sir,
<
<N o doubt existing in my own mind o f the preg­
nancy of Joanna Southcott, I was veiy desirous to be
acquainted with the reasons that induced three o f the
gentlemen who examined her, to give a contrary opi­
nion. In The Morning Chronicle of Monday last, Dr.
Sims details the appearances which led him to suppose
that Joanna Southcott was not in the family way.
u Firstly.— i The breasts,’ he days, <exhibited the
appearance pf an old woman grown corpulent.’ Now*
5$
Digitized by y ^ o o Q l e
39
the fulness of Joanna’s breasts prise? from an enlarge­
ment of the mammaiy glands, and not from an aceu?
mutation of fat in the surrounding cellular substance.
In cases of corpulency, the nipples are shortened,
whereas, in the case of Joanna Southcott, they are
elongated.
“ Secondly.— c There was not that elasticity of
breasts as in the eighth month of pregnancy.9 In a
woman of only forty years, the breasts very rarely ex­
hibit this appearance in the last month o f pregnancy,
and in a woman of sixty-five, such is not to be ex**,
pected; the changes being confined to the glands, and
the plumpness depending on the state of the cellular
membrane and skin.,
cc Thirdly.— * The appearance of the navel does not
favour pregnancy.9 The protrusion of this part entirely
depends on the degree o f elasticity of the integuments
of the abdomen; in a woman o f forty-five, this ap­
pearance is very rarely attendant on pregnancy; and
in a woman of sixty-five, where the integuments are
in a very flaccid state, such an appearance would be
very extraordinary indeed; but, as the doctor asserts,
that the uterus had only risen above the pubes, it was
not even to be expected, had she been only of twenty
years of age, instead o f sixty-five*
“ Fourthly.— ‘ The areola of the nipple did not in­
dicate pregnancy.’ This appearance in an old woman
with her first child, is never so well marked as in a
#
young subject, or an aged woman who has had chil*
Digitized by Google
*
40
dren, on account of the skin of the part being covered
With scurf.
“ Fifthly.— * She did not experience.,sickness till the
time she felt the sensation of quickening.’ It is not
uncommon for the sickness to commence at this period,
and even diarrhoea, from the pressure of the enlarged
uterus and motion of thefoetus.
“ The symptoms which have been taken for those of
breeding, Dr. Sims considers to arise from disease of
the uterus, to which he has not thought proper to giye
a name. Now, I contend that the sympathetic affec­
tion of the breast attendant on a diseased uterus is v$iy
different from that which attends gestation; in one, the
action is healthy, and in the other, it is disease.
“ The fundus uteri, Dr. Sims asserts, did not reach far
above the pubes, and that he did not discover any
motion in it. When I made the examination, she was
sitting in a chair, and in that state, I traced thefundus
uteri above the navel, and veiy plainly felt a motion
resembling that of afoetus, which, of all other symp­
toms, I consider the most unequivocal of pregnancy;
and, had Dr. Sims discovered it, his opinion, I have no
doubt, would have accorded with my own. In a wo­
man aged sixty-five, we cannot expect the indications
o f pregnancy, particularly those of the breasts, to be
as strongly marked as in a young subject.
“ I have this morning been assured by one of the
9 friends of Joanna Southcott, that I shall be apprised
of the time of labour, and that it is her wish that all
Digitized by Google'
41
the medical gentlemen who have attended her, should
be present. The result I will communicate to the public
through the medium o f y o u r P a p e r .
. “ I agree with Dr. Sims, that Joanna Southcott is
not an impostor, but is probably labouring under men-
tal delusion. The report in the public journals, that
she has sold many thousand seals, I am credibly in­
formed, is false. She has distributed seals among her
friends, who defy any person to produce an instance of
Joanna Southcott, or any of her followers, having sold
one. I find also, that she does not "receive presents,
except a few trifles from a few particular friends—she
is chiefly supported by Mrs. Townley, who appears to
be a very good sort pf woman.
“ I take this opportunity to thank those medical
gentlemen who have thought proper to address me
anonymously, on the opinion 1 have given respecting
Joanna Southcott’s situation, for their friendly wishes.
The abuse of the ignorant and sordid part of the pro­
fession, 1 regard as complimentary, but 1 must confess
it would be more acceptable to me if it were conveyed
* without the expense of postage. Instead of wasting
their time thus fruitlessly, 1 would advise them to cul­
tivate their art for the benefit of their patients, and
not to practise it solely for their own advantage, Illi-
berality ill becomes the members of a liberal pro­
fession.
“ I am, Sir, your obedient servant,
“ R ichard R eece.** #
f 171, Piccadilly, Sept. 10, 1814.”
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
42
The consequence o f this continued
correspondence rivetted strongly the at­
tention o f all ranks to know the actual
state o f this business, and accordingly I
was beset with letters from all quarters,
many from respectable characters o f the
Church o f England, whose motives de­
served every attention and regard. Others
from literary characters stimulated by the
singular nature o f the supposed occur­
rence, and others for the purpose o f abuse*
sent anonymously to shew the wit and
illiberality o f the writers, as a specimen
o f these, the following may be submitted
to the reader.
u Sin,
“ As 1 read a very sensible well-written letter, signed
by you, in the Sunday’s Review, relative to Joanna’s
pregnancy, I am induced to trouble you with a few
lines on that mysterious subject! My love of t r u t h ,
and of course, my hatred to all kinds of impositions,
have determined me to investigate the matter as I find
there are many thousands of her followers (as well as
believers in the millennium) are in full expectation that
she is to bringforth the messiah !!
“ I f she really be with child, I can no longer doubt it,
Digitized by Google
43
as it must be f r o m t h e L o r d , if a woman of her age
brings forth a child (even supposing she had been a
married woman,) it then, would have been a miracle
similar to that in Holy W rit! I have enclosed you a
copy of my letter to the Archbishop of Canterbury,
which will prove to you how very anxious 1 am to
investigate this matter, and which is certainly the duty
o f His Grace, and all the Bishops, as it is a terrible
b l a s p h e m y and a m ockery o f the true gospel o f
Christ, if bis divine and holy name be made use o f to
impose on the world i but 1 confess, 1 am of opinion,
that no human creature would have dared to have done
i t ! Therefore, I am inclined to conclude, that it is a
V i s i t a t i o n from the Lord!! As I flatter myself I have
a small degree of penetration, I got permission to see
her last week, when I was forcibly struck with her
appearance and manner; nothing that had the least
appearance of imposture, a benign look, modest in
speech, and apparel, a good looking motherly wo­
man; she did not appear to be large with child,
whereas an impostor would have made a great shew
o f her pretended condition 2 Being it seems a little
' flustered last week by some insults from some of her
genteel neighbours, she was comforted by the s p i r i t
in the following manner: the lines are beautiful, and
well adapted to comfort as all, if we make use of them
to our own advantage.*
* On the Lord rely
So safe shalt thou go on,
Fix on his w o r d thy stedfhst eye!
So sh^U thy work be done,
Digitized by Google
What profit can’t thee gain
By self-consuming care,
Trust in the Lord Jehovah
Trust,
And know, thy God is near.’
“ Your honoring me with a line (when you return th«
enclosed letter to His Grace) will be highly gratifying
to your most obedient Servant,
“ A nn T hicknesse.”
' “ 70, Edgaare Road, Paddington,
August 31, 1814.”
P. S. “ Excuse all errors, and inaccuracies from thw
pen of a woman on the verge of eighty!”
This letter was followed by a short reply
from me, referring to my second com-
mnnication to the public.
On this- part o f the subject, I am sorry
it is not in my power to present here
a copy o f the letter to the Archbishop o f
Canterbury.— Never indeed was shewn
more strongly than in this case o f Mrs.
Southcott, the power o f fanaticism over the
mind in the firm belief o f her own sup­
positions, which had impressed and blinded
this enthusiastic woman, who certainly
* V *
44
Digitized by Google
45
acted under the influence o f the most
powerful mental delusion that has occurred
in modern times. Those who were disposed
to believe in her mission were not, however,
altogether settled or easy under the opinion I
had given, in respect to her situation; for on
the 13th o f December, I received from
Mrs. Thicknesse, the following letter:
“ Sir,
v “ I take the liberty o f once more troubling you on
the very mysterious and important subject o f Joanna's
pregnancy, which you (in the letter you honored me
with) seemed to look upon as a mystery only, in a
professional view \ do not imagine, sir, I intrude upon
you any questions from mere impertinentfemale curi­
osity, for be assured, lam actuated upon,* by religious
principles only; and of course, an anxious desire to
know the truth, and thereby, relieve my mind from
every shadow of doubt! I will repeat what I had
written to the Archbishop, viz; 6that no human
being could have had the audacity to have written
such things as it is pretended the s p i r i t uttered, and
with that boldness too, as only truth could inspire!! ’
“ I have taken great pains to compare her writings
with Sacred Writ, and am more and more convinced,
that the time of the m i l l e n n i u m is approaching! and
if she be really pregnant, there seems but little doubt
Digitizedlby Google
46
o f its being supernatural, for this case hath already
baffled the wisdom and skill of the most eminent of the
faculty, whom with yourself, imagined her accouch-
ment, could not be protracted beyond the 12th of last
November—as they reckoned from the time shefelt
life! Now 1 think that it is very probable, that the
delivery will not be till the 12th of January, which
will end the year old style! Because the s p i r i t said,
4this year thou shalt have a son.’— If that proves true,
and that her visitation is from the Lord, the words
must prove true! But as to her being pregnant of a
living child (and not, as was the opinion o f Dr. Sims
a disease) I should think in my humble opinion, one
thing alone would have put it beyond doubt, which is,
Is there milk in her breasts f that is the question, sir,
I wished to ask you ; your goodness in answering this
will greatly relieve my mind, for with me all doubt
would cease, and moreover, that it will produce a
SUPERNATURAL# BIRTH.
“ 1 have the honour to be,
“ Sir,
“ Your most obliged, humble Servant,
“ A n n T h i c k n e s s e s
“ TO, Edgzcare Rond, Paddington,
D ec. 13, 1814.”
P. S. “ The rumour to-day is, she was taken in la­
bour last night! Pray write one line to inform me if it
be true! Mrs. Drew promised to let me know, but
1 have heard not from her.”
1
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
47
.To the above I replied, that the circum­
stance on which she dwelt most strongly
herself, the appearance o f milk in the
breasts, was by no means an unequivocal
sign o f pregnancy, and that it was often
an attendant on a diseased womb, as well
as gestation.
The anonymous correspondence was
now continued upon me, a specimen o f
which may be offered in the follow ing:
“ Hon. Sir,
“ This epistle 1 now write unto you, in which I stir
up your mind by way of remembrance, that ye may be
mindful of the words which were spoken before by the
holy prophets and apostles; knowing that there shall
come in the last days scoffers walking after their own
lusts. But there were false prophets even in their
days among the people, even as there shall be false
teachers among you, who shall bring in such heresies,
even denying the Lord that bought them, and bring
upon themselves swift destruction. And many shall
follow their pernicious ways, bJ reason of whom the
way o f truth shall\ be evil spoken of, and through
covetousness shall they with feigned words make mer­
chandise o f you, whose judgment now for a long time
lingereth not, and their punishment 6lumbereth not;
the Lord knoweth how to deliver the godly out o f temp­
tations! and to reserve the unjust unto the day ofjudg-
Digitized by t ^ o o s l e
48
ment tp be punished. But Joanna Southcott, and her
followers, made to be taken and destroyed, speak evil
o f the things that they understand not. I was pleased
to see in a public paper, that you was not disposed
to believe that infamous impostor's being inspired, and
hope you will always resist every thing contrary to the
Holy Scriptures. Forasmuch as ye know, that we were
not redeemed with corruptible things, as silver and
gold, but with the precious blood o f Christ, as a lamb
without blemish and without spot; therefore as ye
know our souls have been purchased with so costly a
sacrifice, that no other atonement would purchase fallen
man's redemption, than the precious blood of the
Son of God. Shall it be passed over only by making
remarks of this false prophetess in a public news­
paper. If one man rob another of his worldly pro­
perty, is he not brought to trial, to receive his sen­
tence from the judge? and shall this Antichrist rob
God of the honor due to him, by deluding such a
number of ignorant souls to walk after her infamous
proceedings, as if the souls of mankind were of no
more worth than a brute beast. Did he not say to
old Elithe Priest, 6Them that honor me, I will honor,
and they that despise me, shall be lightly esteemed;
all manner of sin and blasphemy shall be forgiven unto
men, but the blasphemy against the Holy Ghost shall
not be forgiven unto men; and whosoever speaketh
a word against the Son of Man it shall be forgiven
him, but whosoever speaketh against the Holy Ghost,
it shall not be forgiven him, neither in this world,
neither in the world to come/ And is not this bias*
phemy, for Joanna Southcott to say she is pregnant
Digitized by G o o g l e
49
by the Spirit of God, and that she is going, to bring
the Son of God into the world. Our Saviour tolls
us to seaidi the Scriptures, and it is they which testi­
fy of him, and 1 have been in the practice of reading
ihe'Scriptures all my life, but I never read that Christ
was to be an infent twice. Our Saviour saith, “ my
mother and my brethren, are these which hear the
word of God and do it, for whosoever shall do the
will of God, the same is my brother, my sister, and
my mother.”
« From a sincere worshipper of the true Messiah, to
whom be glory and honor, Amen.” '
“ Ludlow, Not. 29, 1814.”
A nd as an example o f the abuse, which
many o f them contained, the following will
serve as a sufficient specimen. “ M y friend,"
says one o f them, “ was offered 20 pounds
but you took 15."— In answer to this,
I can only say, that my attendance on
Mrs. Southcott, was entirely gratuitous,
and I do not believe, to the honor o f the
profession, that any one o f them who had
the smallest claim to respectability would
be capable o f being actuated. by such
Digitized
i by Google
50
unworthy, and in this case, I may add,
criminal motives.
; Some letters bore the address o f friend­
ship, and interest for my welfare, express*
hrg their great regard and esteem, and re­
gretting the unfortunate part I had taken
fn the business. T o these letters I thought
it m y duty to reply by stating, I con­
sidered my situation as a public pro­
fessional character, to administer aid when
required, to the meanest individual, and
that no medical man in any case has a'
light o f refusal. That if this is so in
every instance, it is surely more especial­
ly, in the circumstances in which M rs.
Southcott bas placed, as a female in
which humanity, as well as duty, were
hrlended. That having seen her, and given
my opinion from every mode o f exami­
nation I was permitted to make, I could
have no hesitation in declaring that
opinion, particularly when publicly call­
ed upon so to do. That the man who
is really directed by principle, will not
Digitized by v ^ o o Q i e
shrink from the truth, from any despicable
and sordid motives which prudence or
self-interest may hold out. Mrs. South-
. cott's business was made a public one ;
the public had therefore a right to be sa­
tisfied, so far as could be done, and not trust
to inuendoes.
In this stage o f the proceedings, I was,
on the lath o f November, waited on by
M r. Tozer, with a Mr. W ood, from whose
conversation I soon learned his firm belief
in the inspiration o f the prophetess, des- •
canting on his acquaintance with her for
many years, and paying a warm tribute to
her worth and regard to truth, and that
he would pay more deference to her own
declaration than the opinion o f any me­
dical man alive. The circumstances o f his
acquaintance with Mrs. Southcott, he said,
were singular. He had suffered much per­
secution in life, which had rendered him
very nervous. One very restless night he
cried out in his sleep, that he had no
friend. A voice immediately answered,
E 2
51
Digitized by t ^ o o Q i e
52
“ I am yourfriend** This answer greatly
surprized him. He rose to see if the
doors o f the apartment had been fastened;
o f this he soon convinced himself, and
when turning round in bed, was instantly
struck by the lightness o f the room, and
the appearance o f a figure standing against
the wall. The skin o f its face and
hands was o f a beautifel white color, so
transparent, that the blood-vessels
could be seen through it. The dress
was no less extraordinary, being a dark
coat and a white handkerchiefloosely tied.
Conceiving he had nothing to fear from
this strange appearance, he asked it,
“ W ho it was ? ” when a voice uttered
these words, “ J am the God o f heaven
after which it passed through the stone
wall, and the apartment became gradually
darkened. This figure, he added, he is
certain he shall see before he dies. Soon
after this, when in London, another
vision appeared to him in a dream, and
ordered him to purchase from a certain
Stationer’s a quantity o f paper, and to. take
Digitized by Google
58
it to Mrs. Southcott, where he should write
the instructions she would give him, and
this manuscript he now has, and would not
part with on any account.— He quoted
with great facility the passages o f Scrip­
ture, which announce the coming o f the
Child, foretold by the prophetess. S o .
firm was his conviction, that nothing
could shake his belief, and I declined
attempting it.— H e declared, that Lon­
don would be visited by a plague,
which would destroy all those who were
unbelievers in Mrs. S’s. doctrines.
He gave me a singular account o f a
M r. M ajor, o f Ireland, to whom a vision
had appeared in his sleep three successive
nights, commanding him to go to
London in order to be saved. This
circumstance he communicated to his bro­
ther, wishing him to draw ,£300. out
o f the Bank, in order to enable him to
make his journey. His brother considered-
him as insane, and refused to com ply;
but not deterred by this, he set out and
came to London.— In M r. Tozer’s house
Digitized by ( ^ o o Q l e
lie accidentally saw die picture vo f . the
prophetess, when he immediately declared
she was the warning spirit he had seen in
his vision. This confirmed him in the
♦•
belief o f her pregnancy, and he deter­
mined to continue in London till her
delivery was accom plished,. which he
has accordingly done to the present
time.
M r. T ozer.is a good-looking man, ra­
ther tall and lusty. ,H e seemed to possess
good natural abilities, little cultivated, and
on the subject o f the prophetess, his con­
versation was so outre, as to border on in­
sanity ; nay, so far did he and M r. W ood
carry. their. conviction o f the predicted
event* that Mr. W ood declared God would
announce it from pole to pole, or as he ex­
pressed, from tlie poles.
54
But, the period o f the expected delivery
: being now as foretold, elapsed for many
days, I took the liberty o f applying for
an opportunity o f again examining Mrs.
Digitized by Google
m . ,
Southcott, which happened to be about
the beginning o f November. I found her
in bed, and evidently in a more debi­
litated state than on my last visit in August*
She expressed the satisfaction my visit
gave her, and related her sufferings from
the time she had left Western Place. The
belly I found on examination much en­
larged, but the tumor which had occupied
the lower part, had, to my astonishment^
disappeared. There seemed great irrita­
bility o f the muscles o f the abdomen on
the slightest pressure, accompanied with:
great nausea. I could not discover on the
examination any thing like the motion o f
a child, hut she was however, extremely
tender, and could hardly bear to be
touched. From this examination I could
not perceive any striking change to in­
duce me to alter the opinion I had
given, although I confess I was not so
much satisfied as I had been with the
former one.
0n thi£ occasiond met at Mrs. South*
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
56
cott's with a very sensible man, named
Howe. I found him an intelligent person,
and on interrogating me respecting her
pregnancy, I informed him, much depended
on her own veracity; and if confidence
could be placed in her account o f herself,
there could be no doubt. He pledged him­
self on this point, for he had been ac­
quainted with her many years, and knew
her to be a woman incapable o f deception.
He entered warmly into the subject o f her
mission, and expressed himself as firm a
believer as M r. Tozer, pointing out to me
a variety o f passages o f Scripture, which
applied to her. He considered her as a per­
son particularly favored by Heaven, in pos­
sessing the spirit o f prophecy, o f which
he was perfectly convinced by several pre­
dictions she had ^nade, which it would be
improper in him, for political reasons, to
disclose.
Soon after this visit o f Mr. Tozer, I was
waited on by Monsieur Assalini, Professor
o f Midwifery in Paris, and Accoucheur to
Digitized by Google
57
the Empress o f France, requesting an in*
troduction to Mrs. Southcott, as a profes­
sional character, which I readily agreed
to give him. I accordingly called on
him the following Sunday with M r. M ac-
cloud, a respectable surgeon in the navy,
and accompanied him to Mrs. South-
cott’s residence. On our arrival there
we met on the steps in the act o f ring­
ing the bell, two foreign gentlemen. The .
professor immediately recollected one o f
them to be General Orloff, aid-de-camp to
the Emperor o f Russia, and did me the
honor o f introducing me to him. The
General expressed his strong curiosity to
see the English prophetess, which I told
■him I was>«orry could not be complied
with, from his not being a professional cha- ,
racter; but that I should request the favor
o f Mrs. S. to admit him, The Professor
and I then entered her apartment, where
he took a seat very near her, and interro­
gated her by many questions respecting
her general health. He then examined her
belly, observing to her, that her stomach
Digitized by Google
complaints arose from the pressure o f the
womb, and that they- would go off as soon
as she was delivered. The distension o f the
abdomen he particularly noticed, and re­
marked the fluctuating resistance that the
tumor gave. On leaving the room he was
addressed by Mrs. Underwood, who wished
to know his opinion, when he urged his de­
sire to have the satisfaction o f a proper
and internal examination.
His desire being explained to Mrs. Un­
derwood, she informed him Mrs. S. would
by no means submit to it, and had resisted
every solicitation o f her medical attend­
ants on this head. One advantage he
expressed would attend it, in ascertaining
whether labor was near at hand. He ex­
pressed his astonishment that a person in
her situation should oppose the wish o f
a medical man. I then introduced Ge­
neral Orloff, who treated her with much
respect, and made a low bow on his en­
trance. He expressed his satisfaction at
the opportunity afforded him o f seeing a
Digitized by Google
m
v
:Wathan, respecting whom, so much had been
said. She then expatiated as well as she
was able on her sufferings, for. the benefit
o f the whole human race, which he inter­
ru p ted ly a desire she should not fatigue
herself, and took his leave in the same re­
spectful manner he entered. His friend
was silent. His visit seemed to give great
satisfaction to the prophetess, and the Ge­
neral on departing, politely wished to know
if it was customary to give any thing to the
servants, which he wished much to do, when
he was told it was by no means permitted.
I then left the house with Prof. Assalini,
whom I accompanied to his own residence,
in order to inspect his ingenious surgical
instruments, which I found much superior
to the English ones. When there, he was
addressed by a lady o f the house, to know
, if Joanna was not an impostor, as stated in
the papers. “ Pshaw/’ says he, “ don’t .you
know that the English papers are only .a
black paint” intending to signify they were
entitled to no credit, for what they say one
day they unsay the next.
Digitized by v ^ - o o s i e
60
After this visit with this intelligent fo­
reigner, I received from Mrs. Underwood .
on the 19th o f November,,the following
letter:
“ 8m,
“ Mrs. Southcott has had a veiy restless night She
desires me to say, that she has somethingon her mind
which she wishes to communicate to you. I hope
therefore you will call this evening or to-morrow
morning.
“ I am, Sir,
<
<Your obedient Servant,
“ A nn U nderwood.”
“ Manchester Street,
« N o v . 1 9 , 1814.” ,
On the receipt o f the above, I made no
delay in attending to Mrs. 'Underwood’s
request, and called in an hour after. The
account then given me was, that since my
last interview, Mrs. S. had been extremely
ill, having, after a severe fit o f vomiting,
been seized with stupor, succeeded by
great debility, the room seeming at the
time as if going round with her, and she
had every feeling o f approaching dissolu-
Digitized by G o o g l e
61
tion.-—Under this impression, she had ex­
pressed great uneasiness at having given me
authority to open her body, 'and had sent
for me purposely to give fresh instructions
on this point.
She appeared much exhausted, low and
dejected, and unable to speak her mind.
Finding herself, she said, gradually dying,
she could not but consider her inspiration
and prophecies as delusion. A s my opinion
o f her situation had been publicly expressed
and stated, she thought it her duty that the
task o f opening her body should be also
confided to me. This examination, she ob­
served, would clear me in the eyes o f the
public, and that consideration alone in­
duced her to give her consent, for against
it she had otherwise extreme horror.-
It was her particular injunction she should
be kept warm for four days, and that no
steps should be taken to open the body till
the expiration o f that time, or till some
evidence o f putrefaction had actually taken
place. It was her request also, that all die
Digitized by L i O O Q l e
m
medical men w ho had seen her should be
present) and that the operation should be
conducted with due decency.. She had
many friends, she added, some very re­
spectable, to whom she wished a state­
ment o f her case should be sent. Y ou will,
she again strongly repeated, as sure as you
sit there, find something alive in me, and
which will prove to my friends that I am
not that impostor I am represented to be*
I f labor came on, it was her desire Mr.-
Wetherell should attend her, and in case o f
any difficulty, that he should give her up to
me, for no one else she repeated should
touch her. I then observed to her, if she
should be affected in the same manner as
the preceding day, and apoplexy should
supervene, whether I should not make an
effort to save the life o f the child; to this
she"replied in the negative, using these
words: I f it is the work o f the Lord, he
will deliver me, and if it is not, it is fit
it should die with me. She then turned her
face to Mrs. Underwood, and after shedding
tears, she requested her to see her last in-
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
shructions attended td,t and«that ' « prope*
statement of the appearances discovered ott
opening her should be sent to her friends*
She then expressed her desire to see suclvo f
them as were in the next room, being to the
number o f five or six ; on which I asked
her if I should withdraw : N o l Sir, re*
plied she, I particularly wish yam to be
present* Her friends were then- admitted
to her, on which she made an effort to sit
up in bed, but not being able to effect it, I
assisted Mrs* Underwood to prop her up
with pillows. She desired them to be
seated round her bed, when spending ar
tew minutes in adjusting the bed-cloths
with seeming attention, and placing before
her a. white handkerchief, she thus ad*
dressed them as nearly as X can recollect*
in the following words: “ M y friends,
some o f you have known me nearly twenty-*
five years, and all o f you not lesp than;
twenty. .When you have heard me ispeak;
o f my prophecies, you have sometimes'
heard me say that I doubted my inspiration,
But at the same time you would never let
Digitized by b o o g i e
64
me despair. When I have been alone, it
has often appeared delusion, but when the
communications were made to me, I did
not in the least doubt Feeling as I now
do feel, that my dissolution is drawing
near, and that a day or two may terminate
my. life, it all appears delusion.” She was
by this exertion quite exhausted, and wept
bitterly. On reviving in a little time, she
observed, that it was very extraordinary,
that after spending all her life in investi­
gating the Bible, it should please the
Lord to inflict that heavy burden on her«
—She concluded this discourse by re­
questing, that every thing on this occa­
sion might be conducted with decency.
— She then wept, and all her followers
present appeared deeply affected, and some
o f them shed tears.— “ Mother,” said one,
I believe Mr. Howe, “ we will commit your
instructions to paper, and rest assured they
shall be conscienciously followed.” They
were accordingly written down with much
solemnity, and signed by herself, with her
hand placed on the Bible in the bed. O f
Digitized by Google
65
this document, the following is a copy,
as written by Mrs. Underwood.
Joanna sent for Dr. Reece, and gave him directions
whathe is to do. In case she should die, she wishes him
to examine (open) her body to ascertain the cause o f
her feelings for these last nine months. On the other
hand, she puts her life into the hands o f Mr. Wetherell
to deliver her; if he wish for any assistance, it is her.’
will, no one should be permitted to try a pain but D r.'
Reece; and in case she should appear as dead for three
or four days, that no force should be used to extrieatO
the child, but to leave her according to the directions'
given by the Spirit to be keptas warm as possible tilL
there is a visible change take place either in life, or that
actual death has taken place to the full satisfaction o f
her friends. 1
(Signed) J oanna Sodthoott. -Z
Signed by Joanna Southcott in the presence o f iky*
self and four of her friends.
Saturday Evening, Nov. 19,1814.
This being finished, Mr. Howe again
observed to her, “ Mother, your feelings aro
human. W e know that you are a favoured
woman o f God, and that you will produce
the promised Child; and, whatever you may, -
p
, Digitized by Google
6 6
say. to the contrary, will not diminish oar
faith.” This assurance revived her; and the
scene o f crying was changed with her to
laughter.
This I much lamented; for at this mo­
ment she was certainly strongly disposed
to have made a confession, and which I
have no doubt she would have done to
me*had not her disciples been unfortunately
called in. Being, thus disappointed by
their presence, I took my leave, after
writing a prescription for some medicine
to allay the irritation and uneasiness o f her
stomach^ .
• On the following day I received a visit
from Mr. Tozer, to whom I candidly
communicated the conversation that had
passed, and the disposition manifested by
her to confess her error. *
* Poor woman/'
he replied, “ how can she despair? She
feaspned as a human being; but God will
soon give her comfort.” He had strong
reasons'*whe added, ‘ to "believe, that the
Digitized by Google
Child Was to be cut out o f heir side, Hi
woman was taken out o f the side o f man*
His conversation ended by the relation
o f what he termed a remarkable circum­
stance, that, when on a journey into De­
vonshire, he accidentally met with a copy
o f Moore's Almanack for the year in which
Joanna was born; and the frontispiece
o f it was a representation o fAngels rejoicing
for the birth.of the Prophetess- On under­
standing that I was now not so positive o f
her pregnancy, he declared, that if all the
medical men in London were to give an
opinion against it, he would not consider
one o f them entitled to belief; for theevent
Was so strongly pointed out in the Bible*
that it wanted no other evidence; and he
Was in possession o f facts which would
convert the moat blind and prejudiced, did
not political reasons prevent their being
disclosed. He said that he had just re­
ceived a manuscript from Hull, written
many years ago, in which the birth o f
the Child was foretold, as totake place
in November 1814, .0. S.
9 %
Digitized by G o o g l e
68
From this period Mrs. Southcott con­
tinued to sink; and being very anxious
to ascertain if the supposition o f her being
pregnant was correct, 1 addressed the
following letter to Mrs. Underwood.
“ Madam,
n Having been much abused in the public papers for
the opinion I havegiven ofMrs. Southcott’s pregnancy,
•I am veiy anxious to ascertain the fact by an internal
examination. It certainly would be a great satisfaction
to her believers, to have this point completely esta­
blished; and from the confidence which she appears to
place in me, and the conversation I had with her on
the 19th instant, I think that ifyow were to intimate to
her the propriety of the examination, she would not
object to it. It is painful to me to urge her compliance
with an examination that is unpleasant to her feelings;
but after the public opinion I have given, it is certainly
herduty to submit to it
u 1am, Madam,
“ Your obedient servant,
“ Richard Reece.”
« Nov. 24, 1814.”
“ To,Mrs. Underwood
This letter was followed by the subjoined
reply:
- t( Sir,
“ At the.time your servant was here yesterday, Mrs.
Southcott was a little composed fromone of the violent
fits of rftching and sicknesswhich now comes on more
Digitized v ^ o o Q l e
69
frequently, of course I could not introduce Mr. Shel­
don to see her—in the evening I mentioned your re­
quest to her—her answer was, from the present state
o f her health, a very short time must determine her
situation one way or the other; therefore she could
not think of any further examination, unless her pains
came on the same as they did this day week, and if they
returned again, she would immediately send for you
to tiy her pains, but without that, she cannot think
o f its being done, therefore hope you will decline
mentioning it; she is certainly much worse, very low
and weak, which must rapidly increase, from her not
being able to take any nourishment, neither the
laudanum or kali seem to have any effect in preventing
the constant retching and sickness.
“ I am fully aware o f the anxiety o f your mind on
this subject, but find it impossible for your wishes to be
complied with, as only mentioning it to her, had a
great effect upon her spirits, she could not see her friends
that were here to speak to them as usual, had a veiy
restless night, said it was no use for her to see any
more medical men, as they could be no judge of her
situation from outward examination, it must now be
left for time to determine it, either in life, or death,
which cannot be far distant, one or the other must
soon take place.
<
c I remain, Sir, #
" Your humble servant,
“ Ann U nderwood.’*
« Nov. 24, 1814.’*
u Te Dr. Reece”
Digitized by t ^ o o Q l e
About the fourth o f December I wet
addressed by Mr. Want, a respectable
surgeon, and editor o f the Physical Journal,
by the following letter;
. Mr. Want, presents bis compliments to Pr. Reece,
trill be happy to be fitvoured with an interview with
him, to eoaumpucate some particulars of a ease which
he conceives to be yeiy similar te that of Mrs. SoathT
pott,«8 tarashe isCapable©fjedgiCgfroiBpublicreport.
Mr. W . will feel much pleasure in taking Dr. R. to
has potieht, and is terj desirous ofcomparing the two
panes by an interview with Mrs. 6. if it be attain;
able.
Wednesday Evening, ,
1, North Crescent, Bedford Square.
M y reply was, I would attend him to
bis patient on Sunday evening, which J
accordingly did. She was a lady who had
borne many children. About fifteen months
ago she had suffered from the symptoms
o f pregnancy, viz. nausea and sickness.
About four months after this, she ap«
parently quickened, and has continued to
feel symptoms o f foetal life. Her appear­
ance externally b&ars evident marks o f
gestation. She appears very large, and
ber general health is good. This I consider
Digitized by
71
a dropsy o f the ovarium. After this visit
to his patient, Mr. Want was introduced
by me to Mrs. Southcotf; and I left them
together in order that he might be at li­
berty to question her as he pleased. He
made no examination, and consequently
could say nothing o f her pregnancy from
her not wishing to submit to an interned
examination, which he considered the only
decisive mode o f ascertaining it.
It was about the 6th of December that
I next saw the Prophetess, when she ap­
peared considerably worse. The nausea
continued, but in a less degree, in conse­
quence of her taking my last prescription.
She looked much dejected, and in the
opinion that she could not live many days,
she still declared, that she felt the child
more strongly than ever, that she thought
the burden had fallen, which gave her
hopes that labor would soon come on. The
matter vomited by her was very bitter and
offensive. Her observation was, that death
or life would soon end the strife; and that
if she was not the favoured woman to
produce the Prince o f Peace, she was at
Digitized by Google
73
least an instrument in the hand o f God to
produce some good. From her statement,
that she felt the child stronger than ever,
I again examined the belly, and was as­
tonished to find it very much lessened in
size. She was also now very much ema­
ciated ; and there was nothing to be felt,
as formerly, like an impregnated womb.
She however continued to declare it moved,
and seemed astonished that I did not
feel it.
I observed now there was a sudden ac­
tion of the diaphragm or medriff and
abdominal muscles, apparently produced
by the act o f the mind, or a voluntary
impulse for the sake o f deception. The
laudanum prescribed to quiet the vomit­
ing had affected her head; and I ordered
-------in the solid form, as a pill, supposing
that its gradual solution would succeed
better, and not act upon her in the same
disagreeable manner as laudanum. Her
stomach was now reduced to that state o f
weakness as to retain nothing but a little
Malmsey Maderia wine; every thing else
was rejected.
Digitized by ^ o o Q i e
73
Her pulse now began for the first time
to give way. On taking my leave, she
expressed a strong wish to see me again,
with the promise she would take every
thing I recommended. In the outer room
I met Col. Harwood, who requested my
opinion o f Mrs. Southcott. M y answer
was, she was evidently sinking, and I had
now my doubts o f her pregnancy; that the
tumor discovered at the first examination
had now subsided; that no emotion was
to be felt resembling that o f a foetus, but,
in consequence o f the tenderness and pain,
I had not employed much pressure; that
the truth o f her pregnancy rested much
on her own word, and there could be no
doubt o f it, provided full confidence could be
placed in that.To thishe gaveme thestrongest
and most solemn assurance, requesting me
not to retract, for, so sureasI wasin existence
she was pregnant; that the preceding day
she had been examined by Mr. Wetherell
and Mr. Phillips, experienced practitioners
in midwifery, who declared they distinctly
felt the child, as did Mr. Foster and Mrs.
Lock, being ready to verify the same on
oath, if required. On the following day
Digitized by Google
74 *
I was told the same fact o f Mrs. Lock, by
Mrs. Serres, a respectable lady, to whom
she had declared her opinion also, and
with the same solemn attestation. M y
answer to all this was, that I hoped it
would prove so, though I could not but
express my doubts; regretting that she
would not submit to the internal exami-
nation. This vacillation, on my part, oc­
casioned a visit from the Colonel the fol­
lowing day, who repeated his confidence in
the word o f Joanna; and that, in conse­
quence, he had no doubt in the world o f
her pregnancy; her feelings being really
such as she described. T o this assurance
I replied, that such was the flaccidity o f
the abdominal muscles, and general weak­
ness o f her frame, that I did believe she
could produce a child, and that it was a
duty she owed her peculiar friends to
submit to an internal examination. This
observation he put a stop to by. saying,
that he knew no friend that would request
o f hpr any thing unpleasant; that the
business was now coming to a final crisis;
and no advantage, he conceived, would
result from it ; that her disciples required
Digitized by G o o g l e
76
no such evidence. That the more doubt­
ful and improbable it appeared to the me­
dical men, the more miraculous it would
be, and the more striking to the public
m ind; and that I would at the same time
admit, that nothing was impossible with
God. He then informed me, that Mrs. S.
had expressed much uneasiness on disco­
vering by my looks, that the last examina­
tion had not satisfied m e; concluding her
observation with these words-
—** Well, it
is o f no consequence, I shall shortly pro­
duce the child, and all I ask o f him is tp
act as a man. I f he were a believer, he
would not be a proper witness; and the
more improbable the event, the firmer will
be his conviction, that it is the work o f the
Lord.”
The day following this I was visited by
Mr. Phillips* her apothecary. I then posi­
tively told him Mrs. S. was not pregnant,
and that the bowels were in a very flaccid
state. Though a believer, he was not a
steady one, for he appeared from his ob- ,
nervation to have his doubts, stating to me
Digitized by Google
16
that Mrs. S. had told him her belly was
less.
On the 10th o f December I received the
following letter from Mrs. Underwood—
- /
« Sift,
“ I am sony to inform you, that Mrs. 'Southcott
still lingers on in the same distressing situation: her
weakness seems rapidly to increase, from her not tak*
ing any thing to support her; and the sickness having
returned, and continued since Monday, with veiy little
intermission, has made a visible change in her.— The
extreme faintness which succeeds the retching, is
attended with a cold perspiration over her whole
frame; she says she feels a sensation in every nerve,
as if she should feint, and become insensible to her
present sufferings, which she most earnestly prays may
soon take place, in hope then that a few days may
satisfy the minds of the public as to her real situation,
and relieve her friends from their present persecution.
“ I remain, Sir,
“ Your humble Servant,
“ A nn U ndbewood.’*
« Saturday, Dec. 10,1814.”
“ To Dr. Reece”
Digitized by v ^ r O O Q l e
On the 15th she wrote to me as fol­
lows—
u Sib,
** I am sorry to inform you Mrs. Southcott has con­
tinued very ill since you-saw her on Sunday latt, evi­
dently growing weaker; has continual sickness and
faintness; experiences much pain at times,'but not
labour pains. 1 cannot describe her situation, but
think a change must very soon take place, as to all
appearance she cannot sustain life much longer. If
you will have thegoodness to call inManchesterStreet,
you will be abetterjudge from seeingher, and foryour
own satisfaction we much wish it .
u I remain, Sir,
« Your humble Servant,
“ Ann Underwood/*
“ D ec. 15, 1814.”
** To D r. Reece'*
And on the 17th, I received the follow­
ing letter—
« Sib,
a Mrs. Southcott has had a very restless night; her
mind was wandering, sometimes quite sensible of her
present state; said she was going fast, and then wan­
dered to something else; had very little sleep; com*
plained of & coldness and pain in her stomach. I
attended her with hot cloths, which gave her relief
but returned again this morning. 1 think she is nearly
77
Digitized by Google
in the Mme state shewas yesterday} I carnet perceive
any alteration.
“ I remain, Sir,
“ Your humble Servant,
“ ■Aajr Uw»n*wo*D.”
. - « &*r*yr, Deo. 17,18i4”
“ ToDr, Bet*.”
I paid her a visit soon after the receipt
o f this letter. I found her in a rambling
state, her pulse extremely weak and inter­
mitting, her countenance sallow and cada­
verous, with coldness o f the extremities,
and every mark o f approaching dissolution.
On rousing her she seemed to recognize
me, and said she was very ill. Colonel
Harwood soon after entered the room,
when she said to him, putting out her
hand, “ What does the Lord mean by this
— I am certainly dying.” “ N o, n o / ' re­
plied he, smiling, “ you will not die; or if
you should, you will return again/1 This
answer seemed to give her satisfaction.
Her discourse was then addressed to roe,
observing, that her mind wandered much,
that she had no intention o f giving any
one offence, and she hoped they would pay
no attention to any thing she said in her
7*
Digitized by Google
present state: that she felt extremely glad
to see me, and'would endeavour to keep
herself collected while I wad with her,
placing at the same time her hand empha­
tically to her forehead, an effort I have
never before observed to be made by a
person in that convulsive condition. She,
however, soon relapsed into her former
state, and every appearance indicated she
Would not be alive more than two days.
On Saturday morning Colonel Harwood
was deputed to me, with the Opinion o f
Messrs. Wetherell and Phillips, who now
considered her mortally dying, and not, a9
they expected her, to fall into a trance, or
what may be termed intermediate death.
' On my calling on Monday, I was much
surprised to find she had somewhat rallied,
her extremities being much warmer, and
her mind having acquired some steadiness
and recollection. She then declared she
had had strong labour pains, and that the
event would soon be over. She had at this
time taken a little nourishment, which her
99
Digitized by Google
80
stomach retained, but her pulse was ex­
trem ely languid. This appearance elevated
the spirits o f her disciples. They con­
sidered one prophecy now verified, that
the medical men wonuld be puzzled. M y
opinion, however, I told them was not
altered, though this unexpected change
had taken place, still she could not survive
above a few days; and such alterations
towards the close were not uncommon in
affections o f the stomach. They smiled
upon this, and observed, they had no
doubt she would be in that state, which
all her medical attendants would pronounce
dead.
A t this time I was visited by Mr. Sharpe,
whom I found a plain honest man, o f deep
thought and great research. Our conver­
sation turned on Mrs. S/s inspiration. H e
was fully prepossessed that the child would
establish the Millennium, and would not
hear a word against her pregnancy, though
apparently a real practical Christian.
M y last visit to Joanna was at eight
Digitized by Googte
8 1
o'clock on Monday evening, when I found
her in a state of insensibility, with laborious
breathing, the expression of countenance
gone, the features shrivelled and sunk, and
the pulsation o f the wrist not to be felt.
Still, however, the extremities were warim
I stated my opinion that her mortal race
was run, and that she could not live many
hours. The disciples, however, were not
dismayed at the news. This they said she
had foretold twenty years ago that she
would take on the appearance o f death,
and they would not have been satisfied if
this event so foretold had not occurred.
Some went so far as to state that her soul
Would go to Heaven.
She appeared to be at intervals in great
pain, and at four o'clock on Monday morn­
ing she breathed her last, which was com-
ihunicated to her medical attendants, in
the following letter*:
CIRCULAR;
“ Sib,
“ As you desired to be present at Mrs. Southcott’s
Accouchement hadit taken place, aswas then expected,
o
Digitized by Google
82
the friends consider it as their duty to inform yon and
all the medical gentlemen who had that intention, that
to all appearance, she died this morning exactly as the
clock struck four.
u Care is takento preserve warmth in the body as she
directed; and it is the wish of the friends thatyou will
see her in her present state.
wAnn U nderwood.”
“ 38, M anchester-Street,
Tuesday, D ecem ber 27, 1814.”
To the last, this unfortunate woman
made no confession o f her error. On the
contrary, in her intervals o f reason she still
persisted in her pregnancy. Two days be­
fore her dissolution, on awakening in great
pain from one o f her dying fits, she loudly
exclaimed that the child was making its way.
through her side, when the nurse, who was
standing by, put her hand to the part, de­
claring that she felt a tumor as large as a
child’s head, which suddenly disappeared
with a motion or spring, giving the idea o f a
kick. A little before she also exclaimed, that
the child was coming, and that the head was
Digitized by Google
83
in the world. On the same day I repeated my
call, when my opinion was warmly pressed
to know if I thought her actually dead,
but I was not allowed to touch any other
part o f her body, but the fa ce and hands.
She Was at this time lying in the same po­
sition in which she died, well Wrapped up
in flannels, and artificial heat was also
conveyed by means o f bottles filled with
Warm water. On entering the drawing­
room, I saw Mrs. Townly, Who, with a
smiling expression o f countenance, said,
that she would return to life, for this, she'
added, has been foretold twenty years
back. M f. Sharpe, who was standing by,
confirmed this, by saying, that the believers
fully expected it, and would not have been
satisfied had this event not happened.—
Taking me to a corner o f the room, he told
me, that I had an arduous task to perform,
but that the result would greatly redound
to my honour and reputation, for the
soul o f Joanna would return, having only
gone to Heaven to legitimate the child,
which would be born. Fifteen years ago
he had purchased flannel, in expectation
g 2
Digitized by t ^ o o Q l e
84
o f this event, in order to keep the body
warm. All o f the twelve elect, who were
present, were equally sanguine, and buoyed
up in their expectations on the subject;
and shewed an elevation o f spirit, and
every appearance of satisfaction. So mar­
vellous, it was their opinion, would be the
result, that a kingdom would be born in a
day, according to the words o f Holy W rit;
and that the fulfilment of the prophecies was
now clearly seen. Mr. Sharpe even point­
edly asked, if she should be resuscitated,
and produce a boy, would I then believe
in the mission o f Joanna? In that case I
told him I must certainly admit it was
the work of the Lord to answer some great
purpose; but in my present frame o f mind
it would to me appear as reasonable to ex­
pect the building o f St. Paul’s to ascend
into the air. A h ! Sir, replied he, you take
only a professional view o f it, but I take a
spiritual o n e ! Pray, Sir, he continued,
for your credit’s sake, do not retract the
opinion you have given, for assuredly there
is a child. I was satisfied, I replied, she
would not have died with a child in her.
Digitized by Google
85
I then asked one of the disciples what con­
duct he would adopt provided there was
-4io child ? He had never, he replied, given
it a thought, so as to entertain a doubt;
and that I might as well expect the sky to
fall, for the one was as likely as the other.
Mrs. Townly was questioned in a similar
manner by a very sensible lady, who called
on her for the purpose o f being made ac­
quainted with Joanna’s tenets, when she
informed her it was not possible that it
should prove otherwise than wais predict­
ed ; for all the communications came from
the Lord, who was their support. But, Ma­
dam, said this lady, you imftt allow we ane
all liable to be deceived. Well, replied
Mrs. Townly, if it should turn out so, I
would burn my Bible, and declare the
whole fabric to be nonsense!!!
On Thursday, I paid another visit to
the remains o f Joanna. The body was
then beginning to be offensive, her lips
and fingers had assumed a black appear*
ance, but even this change did not
shake the faith o f her followers, and I was
Digitized by Google
86
obliged seriously to address Mr. Sharpe,
stating to him that putrefaction had
.actually began to take place, that the
warmth employed would accelerate the
process, and if continued, it would be
.to no purpose to open the body. To this
he replied, rather sharply, do not be
uneasy, you will not suffer by it, for
depend upon it she will return to the
body. M y answer was, that if they thought
so, they should endeavour to keep it sweet
for her reception, for should the ceremony
o f her marriage in Heaven continue two
days longer, the tenement would not be
habitable on her return. Well then said he,
the greater will be the miracle. The God
that raised up Lazarus, can raise her up,
and that he would do so he had not the
smallest doubt. The evil, I replied, will
in this case find its own remedy, for in
two or three days she will stink you all out
o f the house.— Colonel Harwood informed
me, that several medical men had called
and inspected the body, who agreed
in opinion o f her being dead, except
Hr. Sims, who would not speak decisively
Digitized by Google
87
from her warmth, so that even on the
question o f death we could not agree.
On the day o f her death, the news o f
peace with America, arrived from France.
This event inspired her followers with
fresh confidence. “ D o you not think,"
said one o f them, “ it is a most curious
circumstance, o h ! if you do not see
that God is about to do a great work,
you must be blind indeed! 1" In the course
o f Tuesday I called again, for the pur-,
pose o f informing the attendants I would
decline opening the body if they would
not consent to it on the following day.
I saw on this occasion Mr. Sharpe, and
Colonel Harwood, who considered the
time would not be expired till the follow­
ing morning at four o’clpck, according
to her dying injunctions, making four days
from her death, after that time I was at
liberty they said to open the body. On
this, I appointed two o’clock next day,
when the Colonel informed me he would
himself acquaint the medical gentlemen
who were appointed to attend by
Digitized by Google
88
Mrs. Southcott. He requested to know
the names of the medical gentlemen
I intended to introduce, when I gave the
names o f Messrs. Clarke, Want, Caton, and
Maccloud.— The disciples in attendance,
were equally sanguine in the idea o f her
rising again. She is not dead, but sleep-
eth, seemed to be the opinion of the whole.
In performing the dissection, it was
requested by Mr. Tozer, that I would
conduct it in the same manner as the
Cesarian operation, that all hopes o f
resuscitation might not be destroyed!!
To this request I replied, that certainly
the same power that could raise a putrid
body, could raise one that had been
opened. His next request was, that I
would take care o f the child, for he and all
the disciples were fully confident, if Joanna
was not raised before opening the body,
the child would be found on dissection.
Colonel Harwood even told me, that Mr.
Wetherell had examined the belly since
her death* and that the impregnated
womb which formerly occupied the right
side, was now to be discovered on the tiftr
Digitized by b o o g i e
89
The following day, a quarter o f an
hour before the time appointed, I arrived
at Mrs. S’s. in order to prepare the body
for the operation, but I was not per­
mitted to touch it till the expiration o f the
hour, hanging as it were with a fond and
eager hope to the last moment, in the
cherished expectation o f her rising again.
A t the appointed hour o f two, the me­
dical gentlemen were punctual in their
attendance, viz. Dr. Adams, Dr. Sims;
Messrs. Taunton, Clarke, Want, Caton,
Mathias, Cooke, and several others whose
names I was not acquainted with.— I then
went with some o f the disciples to the
apartment where the body was lying,
and I was surprised to find her ex^
actiy in the same situation as when she
died, lying in bed, and covered with flan-r
nel, with her wearing-apparel, her rings,
and every thing in the same unaltered
state. The body was now in such a high
degree, o f putrefaction, that we could
not trust to the limbs to convey it, and
it was accordingly moved to the table on
a sheet. On every thing being in readiness,
Digitized by Google
90
the attendance o f the medical men was
requested, who all placed themselves
round the table, and behind them stood
the disciples smoking tobacco, a proof that
they did not consider the prophetess to
possess the most savoury odour!
On exposing the belly, it appeared
much distended with air, which was
evidently the consequence o f putrefac­
tion after death, for previous to that
the abdomen, as has been already men­
tioned, was in a flaccid state. On divid­
ing the teguments there was a consider­
able escape o f putrid air, after which the
contents of the cavity came into view. The
first organ that immediately claimed at­
tention was the womb, which contrary to
all expectation was hid in the pelvis, and
instead of being enlarged, appeared
smaller than in the natural state. It was
so small, I was obliged to introduce my
hand into the pelvis, and to remove the
whole contents, in order to bring it out
for inspection. It was o f the size o f a
small pear. It was considered by the
Digitized by G o o g l e
91
medical gentlemen present, asuncommonly
small, but 1 thought not more so than
what it ought to be in a virgin o f sixty.
On examining its substance, there appeared
no mark o f disease. An invidious report
having been spread, that Mrs. S. had
formerly had children, Mr. Want and
1 next examined the ovaria, but there
appeared no traces to confirm this slander.
During the examination of the womb, a
most interesting scene was presented.
The believers were all on tiptoe to see
Shiloh appear, and those who could not
have a view themselves, were most anxi­
ously making inquiries o f the others. N o
promised child, however, appeared, which
so confounded the rest that they gradually
left the room abashed and dismayed. The
state o f the stomach was next examined,
to ascertain the cause o f the constant
nausea she had experienced, but the coats
o f this organ shewed no sign of disease.
On moving the liver, the gall-bladder was
found filled with calculi, or stones o f a
light color, a proof that they had been
o f long standing. The liver appeared
Digitized by Google
92
dark and rather soft in its texture, which
I considered to be the consequence o f tire
disorganizing process taking place after
death; it was not enlarged. The me­
sentery was very much loaded with fat,
and also the teguments of the belly.— The
intestines were also distended with air, *
which induced some to consider the com­
plaint an intestinal tympany, but as the
abdomen, a few days before her dis­
solution, was in a flaccid state, this
was clearly the effect o f a disengage­
ment o f air which had taken place
since her dissolution.— Dr. Sims having
expressed a wish to examine the state o f
the breasts, to satisfy him on this point,
I dissected one of them, which shewed the
fulness to proceed from an enlargement
of the mammary gland as I had stated,
and not from accumulation of fat, accord­
ing to his opinion.—
Thus on dissection o f every part, no or­
ganic disease could be discovered to ac­
count for her death ; for the calculi in the
gall-bladder, though they might tend in some
Digitized by Google
93
degree to keep irritation in the stomach,
could do no farther injury, as there was
no obstruction to the passage of the bile
through the biliary duct, as the faeces were
sufficiently tinged by it, and much, bile
was also brought up by vomiting.
The body*was in so highly a putrid state,
that it was thought unnecessary to examine
the brain, where it was probable all the
mischief lay, and which would have been
discovered had the dissection taken place
the day after her death. She certainly
suffered from determination o f blood to the
head ; and the sensations o f giddiness and
numbness o f the extremities she experi­
enced about a month before her disso­
lution, indicated compression o f the brain
from distension o f blood vessels. When I
saw her the day preceding her death, she
was apoplectic, and in this state it may be
said she died.
The state o f the internal coat o f the
stomach was particularly inspected, in
consequence o f information having been
Digitized by Google
94
sent to the coroner that she had been poi­
soned ; but the appearance of it proved there
was no foundation for such a supposition.
The disappointment o f her disciples on
opening o f the body, may be better
conceived than described. It was strongly
depicted in every countenance. Mr. Sharpe
was the only one that held out to the rest
the balm o f consolation. Life, he ob­
served, was involved in mystery. His mind
had been often turned to the investigation
o f the works o f the Deity, to discover
evidence for the existence of the soul; that
he was satisfied o f the existence o f a God
and o f a soul: that he was in hopes by this
woman something would be revealed; but
now he felt greatly disappointed, and all
he could say was that he was in the same
state with respect to his knowledge o f God
as before he saw this woman. The two
female attendants, Mrs. Townly and Mrs.
Underwood, were inconsolable. They had
all pictured to themselves many happy
days, the enjoyment o f a heaven on earth.
This sad event, this unexpected change,
Digitized by y ^ o o Q l e
95
so suddenly coining upon them, was too
much to bear. One o f the disciples de­
clared he should turn Unitarin. None
condemned her as an impostor— One de­
clared he would ever revere her memory,
and once a month visit the spot where she
was laid with pious and reverential aw e!]!
CO N C LU SIO N A N D R E M A R K S.
S uch is a plain narrative o f all the cir­
cumstances which attended my intercourse
with this singular character. In giving
my opinion of her pregnancy, I was led to
confide much in her own statement, and
on the known veracity o f her character.
I had only two symptoms by which I could
form my opinion, viz. the state o f the
breasts, and the tumor o f the belly. Both
o f these might be equivocal, I confess, in a
character bent on deception. That such
was the case I have no hesitation in stating,
and that both Dr. Sims and myself were
made the dupes o f imposture and artifice,
Digitized by Google
96
systematically laid and carried on by this
apparently artless woman, who, one would
suppose, must have been tutored for thi3
purpose by medical instruction. From
this imputation, however, I entirely ex­
clude her followers, who were no less
deceived than ourselves. Indeed her ap­
parently artless behaviour, I consider now
as the chief engine of her deception;
and whoever accurately examines her por­
trait, as delineated by Mr. Sharpe, will
perceive a certain archness o f look about
the eye, which tends to confirm this opi­
nion. I therefore with regret state, that it
is my firm conviction that the tumor o f
the belly felt by Dr. Sims and myself, at -
our first examination, could be nothing
else but the bladder distended by urine,
retained for the purpose, for a certain num­
ber o f hours, to answer the design. This
is now clear from a variety o f circum­
stances.
The 1st, the different size o f the tumor
at successive examinations, varying with
the quantity o f fluid in the bladder.
Digitized by b o o g i e
97
The 2d. yra.s the complaint o f pain on
pressure, and general soreness o f the ab­
dominal muscles, to deter the medical men
from making use o f much pressure in their
examination.
And the 3d. was her obstinate resistance
to the internal examination, the only cer­
tain and unequivocal means o f detecting
pregnancy. Was it not ridiculous to sup­
pose that delicacy could operate on the
mind o f a woman who freely exposed
every other part without a blush, and re­
fused compliance with a request less inde­
licate, and which alone would have dis­
covered the imposition ?
A fourth circumstance, and one no les3
conclusive o f the long meditated decep­
tion in my mind, was her full acquaintance
with the symptoms and progress o f preg­
nancy. Her’s was not the detail o f an
ignorant woman. So conversant was she
on the subject, that Dr. Denman or Dr.
Clarke, in their lecturing room, cquld not
have given a more minute and circum­
stantial detail to their students, than thus
H
Digitized by ^ o o Q i e
98
apparently ignorant woman gave to me.
Even the thinness o f her loins, a circum­
stance which could never occur to a female
in a first pregnancy, was introduced art­
fully as one o f the marks o f this state..
B y practice, therefore, I am convinced,
she had brought herself to habitual reten­
tion o f urine. Hence on the first visits,
and while she was yet in firm health, she
could retain it so long, that the distended
bladder had the full and almost unequivocal
appearance o f an impregnated womb ! / And
• any medical man, whose mind was above
Suspicion o f the female, would have had no
doubt on the subject. But as her strength
declined, it would appear she was inca­
pable o f retaining her urine for the same
length o f time. Hence we may account
for the motive in requiring punctuality in
the attendance o f the medical men at
a stated time. In several after examina­
tions, the tumor felt differently, was less
in size, not so hard, shewed more o f
a fluctuation, and at last, on my final
examination, was nearly gone. This va­
riety has been shewn in the difference o f
the reports betwixt Dr. Sims and myself.
Digitized by
99
Dr. Sims states that the enlargement rose
just above the os pubis, whereas I traced
the margin to the navel. In the one case,
therefore it was not so much distended as
the other. Some may suppose that it was
not possible for a woman to retain the urine
till the bladder was so distended. This fact
is controverted by what occurs in cases o f
suppression o f urine, and every surgeon
will admit that the bladder so distehded,
in its feel and appearance cannot be dis­
tinguished in the smallest degree from the
womb. T o this every medical man will
assent; and the fact points out the diffi­
culty the profession labour under where
an opportunity is withheld in which they
can only be enabled to form a correct
judgment, and where it is asserted by the
pretended veracity o f the persons, backed
by respectable, and it is to be supposed,
disinterested characters; for some o f her
followers have certainly a good, claim to
this designation.— The habitual practice o f
such a method as here developed, certainly
can be done.
The motion of a foetus, the next symptom,
H %
Digitized by v ^ o o Q i e
1 0 0
is one which can also be imitated by a
quick and instantaneous movement o f the
diaphragm, and certain of the abdominal
muscles. O f this I was satisfied on one
occasion, when the pains had nearly sub­
sided; at one time she practised this de­
ception to that degree, that it was felt
in different parts like the appearance o f
twins. On that occasion, being extremely
ill, she observed, that while there was life
there was hope, and that she had so much
life within her, that she conceived she
should produce two instead o f on e!! 1
find that, by practice, the muscles o f the
diaphragm may be made so subservient to
volition, as to enable a woman, by a sudden
action o f them, to produce a motion exactly
resembling that o f a foetus.
The fifth symptom, the state o f the
mammary glands, is equally easy to account
for. N o cause for their enlargement
could be traced on dissection, and the
gland itself is never enlarged except
from disease, but where the womb is
more or less affected on the principle o f
sympathetic irritation. Here then there
Digitized by v ^ o o Q i e
101
was no sympathetic irritation, and the
enlargement was not an accumulation
o f fat as stated by Dr. Sims.— It is well
known, however, that any thing that
produces a determination o f blood to the
breast will occasion enlargement. To all
cases o f fulness o f the breasts from disease,
the nipples are shortened, but here on
the contrary they were elongated in an un­
common degree, which struck me forcibly
at the time of the first examination, and
which I could not account for on the idea
o f there being no deception. There can
be no doubt, corresponding with the other
practice employed, the breasts had been
enlarged by the irritation of suction, for
.the length of the nipple was exactly that
which is found in a nurse suckling a child.
Artificial means I have no doubt had been
employed to produce this state o f the
breasts, which the profession well know
was the easiest part o f the whole, and by
which I believe even the secretion o f milk
may be produced.
•That she had confined herself to her
room for many months, is a fact ascer-
Digitized by Google
■
(.
102
tained. Was her motive for this to
get habituated to the modes o f deception
now developed ? Her object certainly was,
to raise the importance o f her mission in
the most supernatural manner, by this mi­
raculous pregnancy; and I think there can
be but little doubt, that some plan was
concerted for the smuggling o f a child, to
render the success complete. This is ac­
counted for, by the various periods at which
she gave out her delivery would take place;
at each o f which, it is probable, she was
foiled in her projected design. It is well
known, that various reports respecting the
purchase o f a child were afloat, and one o f
them in particular, at Creukherne, in So­
mersetshire, in which it is said the attempt
was made, but rejected by the parents o f
the boy.
I may also here be permitted to state
another fact, which has been communi­
cated to me. A t the time Mrs. Southcott
said she quickened, the daughter o f
one o f her confidential attendants, also
quickened, and was brought to bed at the
time o f the harvest. Was the child a girl,
\
Digitized by Google
103
and wiere her disciples too vigilant? What
then may be inferred from these circum­
stances ? This is the suggestion to me of
a person who had no means o f collecting
evidence o f such intention.
Mrs. Townly and Mrs, Underwood ap­
pear to be honest characters; but that
some such intention was in contemplation,
I much fear, although, as Mr. Thicknesse
justly observes, one could hardly suppose
any human being would be guilty of so
enormous a crime—a crime for which lan­
guage cannot express detestation sufficient­
ly strong. T o introduce a human being as
the SON o f G O D , is a blasphemy which
beggars description— the bare idea o f which
chills the blood I
Since the death o f this miserable wo­
man, I have endeavoured to learn, if she
or her followers have acquired wealth by
her imposture. Her books, it appears,
have had a very extensive sale; but a
great many, it is said, have been distri­
buted gratis, in order to make proselytes.
The Seals, it is positively asserted, were
5
Digitized by b o o g i e
104
never sold; and the followers persist that
not one instance can be adduced o f it.
A person o f the name o f Carpenter, ori­
ginally the priest and adviser o f the pro­
phetess, is said to have received money
from this traffic; but they were not the
real Joanna’s. Mrs. Southcott herself was
left an estate by one o f the believers,
amounting to about £250 per annum,
which, with her other property, I am told,
she has bequeathed jointly to Mrs. Townly
and Mrs. Underwood, by a will, made
some years ago. Wealth thus obtained
can afford no comfort to a conscientious
mind. Her disciples assert, that they ex­
pended property upon her. Is it not a
suspicious circumstance, that no alteration
was made in her will after she conceived
herself to be pregnant ?
Since writing the above account, I have
seen a statement o f some circumstances in
the Papers, which it behoves me to correct.
It is there stated, that Mr. Want, a re­
spectable surgeon, was requested to visit
Mrs. Southcott by me, and that he first
convinced me she was not pregnant. Mr.
Digitized by G o o g l e
105
Want's letter (see p. 70) will disprove the
fact, and shew that it was an object
o f curiosity on his part, that introduced
him; by an application to me. As he made
no examination, he could form no judg­
ment o f her pregnancy; neither did he
open the body. The operation was per­
formed by myself. He occasionally assisted
in dividing the ovaria, holding back the
dissected parts. This correction I think
necessary to make as a matter due to my
own character and feelings. In a Sunday
newspaper it was also asserted, that she
died o f the disease prognosticated “ by the
judicious and experienced Dr. Sims, in oppo­
sition to the opinion delivered by Dr.
Reece." The present narrative will shew,
that the Doctor, however judicious, was
equally wrong as myself as to the state o f
the womb, and totally so in respect to the
state o f the mammary glands.
After the events that have occurred,
would it be believed that the blinded fol­
lowers o f this infatuated woman still cling
to her opinions, and that their faith should
i
Digitized by G o o g l e
1 0 6
not be in the least abated ? They have now
found that the promise o f the child was
conditional; that if the people had treated
her kindly she would have produced i t ;
but in consequence of their hardness o f
heart and want o f faith, like the Jews to
the Messiah o f old, the Lord had taken
the child to heaven ; and they assert, there
never was before on earth a character so
pure and free from sin as this woman,
except our Saviour!!!! Some even suppose,
that before the 12th o f this Month she will
rise again and produce the promised child!!
Such is the influence o f fanaticism over
minds once accustomed to receive its impres­
sions ! They wish to continue them, and
thereby prevent a resistance to that spirit o f
hope which seems to be their chief delight.
The report, that she exclaimed, just be­
fore she expired, “ England! England!
how have I deceived thee!” I believe is
false. The account o f her embassy to
the Rev. Mr. Pommeray, to request that
he would marry her previous to the birth
o f the child, is by some denied. It is how­
Digitized by
107
ever certain, one o f her followers was de­
puted with a message of some kind to him ;
and it was most probably o f that nature,
in imitation o f Joseph and the Virgin
M ary!
In conclusion, we may remark, that this
woman seems to have conducted herself
with more decorum than other fanatics that
have lately appeared. The founder o f
Quietism in France, issued her visions like
the ancient Sybils, under the influence o f
hysterics and contortions. The Buchanites
were reprobated for their extravagance and
immoral conduct. Joanna was apparently
quiet, correct, and decorous. Her warning
spirit was mild and gentle— spoke to her
in a whisper, and communicated with the
soft still voice o f inspiration. But she is
now gone to that tribunal which forms the
true judgment o f all human conduct.
F I N I S .
HARVARD AMD VABXST,
Skinner-Street, London•
Digitized by v ^ o o Q i e
