{"name":"Theory Of Dreams","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1808__anonymous___theory_of_dreams.pdf","mytitle":"Theory Of Dreams","mylang":"de"}
0
• 'J'tiB
~THEORY OF DREAliSy
IN WHICH
AN INQUIRY
II MADE JJITO
THE POWERS AND FACULTIES
01' TRJ:
HUMAN MIND,
A~ TBET ABE ILI.VSTBATBD nr TUB
MOST REMARKABLE DREAMS
SACRED AND PROFANE HISTORY•
......
IN TWO YOLUMES.
VOL,~/{
LONDON:
J'B.1NTI!.D 'FOB. W. C. AJID J, JI.IYINGTON,
II'Oo 6:.!, ST. PAUL'S CHV&CU•YAil.Do
\ H!08. I
\ ft
j;)i _'J ~~I r-·8-1} 1 ~'t­
rrt( ?tJ?~~ \3~
- Printed by Law lllld Gilbert, St. John's Square, Clerkenwell.
I
~·
PREFAC.E.·
You, while you are awake, sleep; aud as you ·
sleep, dream.
Tu vigil&~~s dormis, &c. Hieron. Epilt.
TaE Author of the following little
Work begs leave to enter his cave~~
against all sarcastic strictures on t~1e
title of his Book, and r_eque~ts that he.
may not be accused, as was Vigilantius, .
• .- t, I
Ai
(lot the sake· of the play upon his
name probably,) by St. Jerom, ai
writing in waking slumbers;. because
at a time so awful as the present, when
every day teems with great events, aud
the fate of empire!, he has employed
his thoughts on Dreams; for, in truth,
the fe-arful .importanee ef the scetiee
wbieh now interest the attention of
mankind, as they only harass and
amict the mind,. affording it DO pro•
spect of speedy relief, lead him to
have recourse to !peculative inqui-
ries, with a -view of receding from
gloomy re~ections, pTOmising hinisel~
as did Livy, \then he projected hi&
llistory, '' the consolation ot ~-ith·
drawi&g &om tbe sigltt of evil& which
prevan.·•
Tbat tiW. a~bjecl may affimt some
little entertainmeac, atKl. nea iasrruc-
tion to the reader, is the Author's
earnest hope : with this view he has
collected, with much industry, what-
eyer might throw light upon it, even
to the admission of more accounts than
have any strict claim to regard, that he
may not appear to have neglected any
. .
dreams to which importance hu l.leea
aUaeked; aad he baa eodeaYoured te
etlliftft the reman& whim he has pro•
duced by the most apposite·instance•
which co'Uld. illuatrat.e &.be dteme, aDd
lI
Yl
often by poe~ical quotations, wishing
to erect an altar, like that mentioned
by Pausanias, on which sacred rites .
were performed, at the same time, to
the Muses and to Sleep.
ERRATA.
VOL L
Page 1!, line!, for by readftw'
a. - 5, for htre read there
U, - 1 and 2 from bottom, for f•rC'htr conti•ued
read eJ·perienctd
!0, - 3, after occasion add lriclding him to e.ryreu hif
anger to the senate
23, - 18, dele that
45, - ! from bottom, for tmll read uho
- 14!1, - 7, for preaehing read pmctili111
- 151!, for Dinalbrune read Diw11/wane
- 161, - a, for Sj'tm. read Sfvrtia
,
CONTENTS.
VOLUME I.
CHAPI'ER I.
On Dreams and thl'ir Distinct:ons
CHAPfER II.
Concerning Dreams 1elated in profane Accoants of
Pag~
1
ancient History 11
CHAPTER III.
Concerning other Dreams related in profane Ac-
counts of ancient Hialory tf
CH.~PTER IV.
Farther Remarks on Dreams ml'ntioned in ancient
History M
...
•
viii
CHAPTD. V~
011 other &DCieDt Dream. of • milcellaaeo~~c~ Cba-
racwr
CH4.PTD 'fl.
50
Oa IIIICieDt Dreamt, CODDeC:ted with iiDpeacling Death 7'0
CHAPl'ER VII.
cBAPI'ER vm•
. Of illlpired Dream1 which were rendered 1ablervient
to Divine Revelaticla. aacl cofttnbated to the Esu-
blilbaleDt ami 1opport of the Hebrew Diapensatiou 109
CHAPTER IX.
On iutpired Dream• which contributed to the Con&rma-
ticm ami Advaneemnt oftile Q... 1!5
CBAI'l'l:l. . X.
en Dreamlnblequeut to the EltablilbliU!IIt of Chril-
tiauity, which have ue Title to be COIJiiclered u
inlpired 1!~
CBAPTE& XI.
Oa other Dr- relaa.d iD moclem Accountl 155
,
THE-ORY
01'
D RBA M S, fc.
......
"CHAP'l'ER I.
ON bB.B:UU .AND THBIB DISTINCTIOX'S.
When to aoft sleep the DlleiiiHn are ftllipecl,
Aod without 111!11111 the llody lia reclined ;
lnWllrd some !iring 'J)irit ltill displays
1uiiCitiYe energies a t'houi&Dd ways;
Feels loy's quick impube,itl eJDOtiona a.ar-~~~o
And all the cares wbicb -te the heart belon&-
Lvcau.l. S. "· U& PJ"eterea, &c.
TaB1lE Is -perhaps no subject ofequal interest
which has been so little methodically treated u
that of Dreams. In conversation they are fie-
'}UeDtly the theme of traoeient -remark{111d
VOL. I. B
~ ducussion; but there are very few regu-
lar di8'Bertations concerning them, though it
might be suppoeed that what .10 much tends to
illustrate the powen end.taeiJI~s of the human
mind, would have engaged attentive conside-
ration.
The reuon of this aeglect indeed cannot
easily be discovered: whether it be, that the
wide range which the prospect opens seems to
tempt rather detnltory and discursive 8ight,
than steady and systematic enquiry" or that the
indistinct notions which are usually entertliined
in hasty speculation, appear to preclude the
hope ofclear and satisfactory decision, the pro-
,jector of t~ present treatise attempts not to
determine ; but he is ofopiuion that much cu-
rious ioformatKm may be collected on the sub-
ject, mid that some important conclusions may
be deduced fr.om a !eneral view of tht' con-
eideratioos which are coantded with it. In
dle Faay,which the aqthor deugns to compote,
it will not be e~peeted that he ~d enabracct
the w~ liCope of the argUJQetat; it wiU bo
r
auflicient if be throw out IOIDe genenl prin-
ciples, and coafinn his remarb by a reference
lo 1001e of those dreaQJs, both ancient and
modem,which have excited the chief attention.
In order to assist our enmioation of that
variety of matter which will demand our ~
tice, it may be useful to advert to the distinc-
tions under which the dit"erent kinds of dreama
law been dlaracterized in gmeral deec:riptioa
1'lyprecediDs writers.
n.e first distinction 181 dowa by Macro-
bi•, an anciem author, refers to what is pro-·
perly called a dream •, wbich ·he regards as
a figurathre and mysterious representation that
requires to be interpreted. An example of
lhia·is fumished by Dion Cusius t, wbo states
that Nero lireamt tbat be aw the chair ofJove
pass iDto the pala~ of Vespuiaa, which was
considered as emblematical of the translation
of the empire to N«o.
..
The second re1ates to what is termedvision •JI
which was understood to obtain, when any
one saw that \\hich afterwards came to pass ia
the same manner that it was foreseen. A
friend, for instance, acting in the same cir-
cumstances, as in reality the next moiniog he
may be found to do.
The third sort is what the ancients conceived
to be oracular t, and what they described as
taking place, when in sleep a parent or priest,
or venerable.~rson or deity, denounced what
was or was not to happen, or what should be
done or avoided; an instance of which is said
· to have occutred to Vespasian, who, when a
private man in Achaia, dreamt th"at a person
unknown assured him, that his prosperity
should begin as soon 1111 Nero should lose a
tooth : in completion of which he was shewn
on the next day a tooth just drawn from the
emperor; soon after which Nero's death took
place, as likew.ise that of Galba, and discord
• •ora,_, viaio. t ~""" oraeulum•
broke out between Otbo arid Vitelliue, which
facilitated Veapuim's ascent to the thrcme •.
Au impreui•e esample is alto furnished by
Virgil, who repreeents the disfigured shade of
Hector to have appeared to lEueas on the
Bight on which· the Grecian~ took poseeaion
of Troy, es.horting him to escape from the
lames of the city~(~ to ~ion.
~ These were suppoae(l to n.e·under the i~
8ueoee of inspiration :· Cieero considen them
is particularly suited ·to temples: and we are
told, that the leaders of the Ucedemoni&ns
were accostomed to lie down in the temple of
Pasithea, in es.pectation of such oracular· sug-
iestions, in whlc"'h they trulted u infallibly
true t. They are here produced only by "·ay
of illustration.
• Soeton. Vapu. Diou. Cau. L. lui.
t P"~eero de Diviu. L. i. f. 43.
B 8
...
6
The fourth is the Iusomuium •~ which Ma-
crobiua represents as some solicitude of au
oppressed mind, body, or fortune, whic:h, as it
harassed ua when ~ake, so it.affects ua in our
lleep ; as for ioatanc:e, wlaea a IoYer fiads him-
self p~ued or deprived of the object of hia
affections; or when uy ene under apprebea-
liou. of so.me insidious eDemy eee101 to hate
fallen into his FOwer, OJ: to have escaped &oaa
it. With respect to the body, when a periOD
fille4 with wine, or distende4 wish foocl., fim~e~.
hi011elf either svangied with repltlti~ • sud-
denly l'elieved; ·or when, on the ~otrary, a
man hungry or thirsty appeara to desire, or to
aeek, or to find, food or liq~: lastlJ, w~th .-
l'pect to fortune., when any one aee.ms, ac:~rd..
ing to his hopes or. fears, to be elevated to ~
degraded from power and high stations. .
These dreams were considered by the aa
dents as especially deceitful and vain t1 as
......... t 1'ruhic Jrrlf"" Sophoclea.
'
I
r leaving DO aigoiibnt iapz •- ; tMy ..
spoken of by Virgil as those
and are direetly eppcllite to the .__ wWch
Peraiua daeribe8 u
and which were COIIIideNii u 188t·froln the
sods~ aocl DOt proceediag from humOUI'It of the
l»ody. .
J»etrMia& .&biter~ or Rdla• Epiauua, lbua
describes &be lusomnillDl with diaaimioatiOn
from the oracle. -
Tbe ....apectra •hich in .__~~~!he
Ceme- frem tn.plea, or indulpt uiet;
The mind creates them, when i1s powen uoehec:k'd
lllay sport, and lean the body in neglect.
• Fulsa ad c:celum mittunt iusomnia manes. Virgii•..Eneid.
r. vi. The earth is bere mentioned" as heaven, in relation
tu the lower reciou. iu •hich the cleatl were aupposed to
... .
t Sat. u. v.l&
• 4
8
~ The laeio .... clitonhr'd lepaa •:r.
Aad belpleu mouardls bath'd in alaupter ditrr
lleuewa the war, besieged towns :suails,
With aword ud e-. the lofty fonreu acales. .
Ja .uioaary eeurb the lawyers spar.
And eonYic:tl tremW• at Wl' ideal kr..
Still o'er his hidden gold the mifer q·ualea.
The 1portsman still with dogs the woodlands ahakes;
The skilful mariuer the veaael sayes,
Qr butfets, from the wreck esc:ap'd, the wa'Velo
All that al'ec:tion breathes by Jove is penn'd•
.. And tokena sent·which love delights to eessd.
Ev'n dogs in sleep the same impre!bion bear.
And tongue the ec:eaaed foobtepo of the hare.
The wretched uiuat the wounds o£ Jais•wy fee~.
Tllougb night's atiiJ iofoeoce on the world should steal•.
Macrobius iliUstrates the Phantasm,which is.
the fifth sort, and which is Styled Visus by
Cicero, u that which takes place between .
waki:ng and sleeping, as it does in the fii'St
clouds of sleep, when the person who begins
~o doze, thinking himself awake, imagines tb~
he sees forms differing in shape and magnitude
from natural objects rushiag upon him, and
wandering about ; or any strange confusion of
• Petron. Arbit. p. 178. Somnia qu~~e. meote11 &c:.
f
·9.
I things, cheerful or distressing. Under this
f q)aaa he places the Ephialtea, or night-mare,
which common opinion supposes to invade
persons when asleep, and to load oJUl iiU·om-
fROde them by the weiglat.
. Macrobius repreaenta the Plaaa&asm and the
Inaomnium 88little deaening of aUentioa, con-
ceiving them to furnish no subject of divinaticJii
9r assistance in the discovery of.futurity : })0"!
polar supentition, however, aeema to have re-o
prded the night-mare 88 capable of predicting.
.. Macrobiua, in his description, has not m·
eluded visions which were supposed. to be seen
~ the da)', when the senses were awake, IJeVeral
of wlaich are recorded in the fabuloWt re)ationiJ
~ ancient history, 88 that of the appearance
of Romulus, who is said to have preaeu~d
himself in glittering armour, and with an a~
peet more bright and augus~ than when liy~,
to Ju\ius Proculus, a.patrician of distiqguiahed
character, as he ~as travelli~g ou tbe .pubiiG
road, and to have assured him of the,future
B 5
JO
power and prosperity of Rome • : and aaother
example was furnished in the apparition which
appeared to TarchetiU!t, king of the Albans,
and which was feigned to have been the father
of Romulus t• Those, indeed, come under
the general idea of visions, treated of in the
second definitiou of Macrobios, dift'ering from
them only as they occurred in the day; but,
properly spea)ting, they should be distinguished
as being imparted to persons '~bose set~ses
were awake.
A more simple distribution of dreams than
that of Macrobius was adopted by those who
divided them only into two sorts-plain and
allegorical : the former including such as exhi-'
bited tbiags in their own form :f:: the latter
MH:h as intimated circumstances w1der sim~
tudes.
• Plutarch. in RomoL t Ibid.
~=e-~~ -things wh&c:h appeared in their ~
f
11
CHAPTER II.
t!Oli'C:B'&BilrO B'&s;A•S BBL.&TSD Ilf P'RO•
:I!AW:J:· .AC::C::OV11'1:5 0'1' AWC::IINT BISTOB.Yo
It is certaia there is • ftry pat altinif1 between Jbe
passion of svperstition, and that of tales. The love of
ftrauge narrations, and the ardent appetite toward• un•
natnral objects, has a near alliance with the,like appetite
1Dwanb tlte mperoatoral ·lind, mch as are cafted proo
aigiou• aad ol dire. ~ury'• ..uvb fl) ""
Author, tJol. i. p. !35.
IF restricting our ·present attention· to these
dreams, wbi~h are rec&rded in profane history,
we examine thetr character and pretension,
with reference to the distinction laid down in
the preceding dtapter; we :find ourselves neees-
sarify ittvolverl' in the question whether we may
consider it llJ! a part of God's- g~nerar morai
government to· furnish 111ankfnd' with 'dreains-
predierive of future eventsJ er wl\ett1er we are
B6
-
to regard prophetic dreams as resened in the
exclusive s~ice of Revelation, by the testimony
of its-claims, and for the communication of
i&s instruction. ·
. Here is one olmous coDSidentioo which.
ahquld lead us to suppose, that dreams have
not been employed by God in the ordinary
course of his providence for the conveyance of
information concerning future ev~ots to mao-'
kind, which is, that he has not furnished any.
general direction to us to confide in them, or
any principles for the interpretation of.them ;
and it seems difficult to conceive that he should
i~part communications of his will without ·
any sanction of authority to 4:ommand respec;t,
~r any ground for explaining what u BJD-
biguous.
The dreaols recorded by profane writers,
.ancient as well as modem, are, as to. the~
general character, so wild and indeterminate,
and so ieldom capable .of any exact and
,appropriate ioterpretatiou, in conlis~ wi~
,
I
. .
lbose eoavietioas which we derive from lt.,.
velatit»n_, that there are few acoounts whtl:b
have the slightest preteosiona to be con~idered
as tending to establish the idea of there beiag
any thing prophetic in ordiauy dreams, or of
their huing resulted from diYiae sugestion;
and no relation u to iaspiration can be received
aslulviog an unquestionable claimtoacceptance,
excepting those \\·hich are furnished in the
Scriptures, and which respect dreams coa-
aected with the peat scheme of Revelation.
It ill poeaible indeed that· drealll81 though
resultiug from the ordinary powen of the
mind in sleep, may by their impression and
effects be rendered subservient to purposes of
salutary tendency, may awaken re&ction, or
lead to the confeuion of crimes; but the
point_, which there seems to be ground to cfil..
pute, is that of their immediate inspiration,
eioce they do uot appear to be diviDe sug-
gestions ; to require implicit confidence, or te
justify extraordiuary precautioaa.
••
14
'naere are, it is true, some few dte'llllllt
mentioned in profane history, whieh as they
seem cal'eulated Oldy to intimate the genentl
soperinteodaace of a Supreme Being, and th&
poeral npance of hie 80'"1'1111M!nt, approvinw
distinguiabed 'Virtue~) •d a'hhorring ftagitiou
miPt!l, do not conuadict any declared maximw
of Divine . Willdom; and whieh have beeR"
therefore thought to have some pretensions·to
be raaked among tboee general notices of
hillll8li, whic:h OM migb& vouehsafe to the
heathen world, and have contribated to confinn.
the opiaions of those persons· who· regard·
dreams as divine communieatious constituting.
• part of .GOO's anivenal aad permanent
pvernment.
One ef this deecriptien was-macli celebrated
among the S&oies. SiJDOBides, of whom othet
wORderful stories are reJated, bal'ing. we are
told, perrormed tile friendly ofli~ of sepulture
tQ a dead. bedy which he had found on a coast
to which he bad lllliW; wae admeaiahed m·a.
dream by the object o£ his pioua care, not to
,
I$
depart the Bat .,., in defetoentoe to 1ttUcfl
admonition lae remained on slON, while thole
who sailetl w~ wrecked in his sipt. The
poet, it is eaid, ia gratelal rememltnmee of
his eseape, afterwaftla eompoeed a poem u &
lasting monument of pniee to. his beiJefaetor•..
The otheP which i& related by C'JCero set"Ved-
a purpose equally worthy of the interference
of a superior power. It represents two Ar-
cadian frieftds tnnoellmg togetfler to have ar-
rived at Megant,. one of whom took up his
abode at an inn, the other at a mend's house:
'The latter in his first sleep appeared to behold'
:hisfriend entreatiag assistance against his host,
who was preparing to murder him; io his alanb
he startled up, but on reflection thinking that
tiledream did not merit attention, he composed
lrimaelf, till his &iend again appeared, feJ
quiring, that since he bad not farther COD-'
tinned any succour wltile l"ing, his death
·.
• Valeriua Maxim. l.. i. C. f. de Somuiil. See also De
Miraculis, L. i. C.-8.
16
might not remain unrevenpd ; mfotming hill
fellow traveller, that he bad been murdeNd,
and that his body had been thrown into a cart
and covered with dung, aa4 directing him tO
go in the morning to the gate o£ the city.
On ·obeying the instruction, the friend met a.
carter, who, when interropted, fted in terror;
the body \V88 discovered in a cart, and. tbe
innkeeper brought to jastice • •.
Both of these drama had certainly. a bene-
ficial and eufticient purpo~e ,to anawer,: and. if
we could cOBSider inspired dr~ as con-
stitutiag a part of the general system o£ God's
moral government,. theJ might be received ~
of divine 10ggestion.
But there are so few of this character,. that
they will not authorize any general conclusion
of inspiration, Uld indeed they may be ac-
~wrted for oa other ~· 1'he former of
. • Cicero De Diviuo L ii. §. A. Diod. Sic. L :nii.
:r. 5'1$. ..
' l7
the dreams here mentioned might have Leen
accidental. It was not miraculous that Simo-
nides, extdtiug in the performance of aQ office
of considention, to which great merit waa
attached .in aocieDt times, should in his sleep
contemplate the person whom he had buried .
· solicitous for .his safety ; and on the eYe of
•parture on a perilous voyage, fancy that he
admonished him not to sail in a veael which
eyentually was wrecked.
· The latter appears to have been too precise
for any casual coincidence betw~n the dream
and the event, but the authority on which it is
related does not preclude sceptic:i.m ; .there is
among men a dispositiOJio to marveDo01 tales ;
what fiction will invent, credulity will receive,
and &Xaggention magnify; the story wu,
perhaps, at nrst fabl'icated, and then· cepied
from writer to writer ; uo period or names are
assigned t~ the relation. It seems not to have
produced any conviction on Cicero, who re-
cords it among otbe~ accounts, as.casual. I
-
1.8
II ~ an in~ to receive tbeee, tllere
are aome whicb, upeo strolilpr grOUDda., maJ
1Je rejected, aioce tbey imply a n-.elatioo
without lld1iciat object., or IMwe a pemieioa.
telldeacy ;. aJMI it malt he iMGuilteM with the
diviDe a&tributee to have con-..,ed Uetjreptjpqp
ef fuaurit7 -. daoee wlao had no poaad to
...,.a. them, aud C..W derive ne iaMraetioo
from them, aad ltill more 11111"e1110..W. i.itJoo
suppose God to ba-.e iaapu1ecl.., that were
calculated to c:oufirm fallac:ioua ayatema of re-
Jiciou, 01' to aubvut lbe -..1 Jawa ol moral
.........
Upoa tltae COBBideratil• we . - aot
lleeitate to reject tboee ...-...which ..
counec~ with· tlle 10pentitica. of ....,..,,.
aod cakulatecl to atreDgtllen a WiU ill the
uistenGe of the b_..ea deitiee; sach maJ be
eoasldBed u ~iuventioaetkYiaedM _.
purpose of ialerest.or pelicJ. '
Wbea the temple dedialed to Jupiter To-
111Ul8 b' Augustus, of which the beautikJ1
,
19
eolum~ are atiB to be seta 11eu the Capitolat
Rome, becalae 10 lmiCh &eqaeoted aa to draw
oif the vota'iea oi Japiter UpitolinOIJ, Aa-
palta ~uely w.a.t, (w in artful
cmap~;..., wi&B die sugeati0111 of iatmellled
..-.., p-eteoded • .-eam>, that Japiw
Capitelimw ex,........ted with la.Do, in rae8o
aaent for beias degradeS imn· a leCOBd JaDk hJ
the neg}ect wU:a lae 111tiaad, 111111 received faD
anaw:a- foom tile emperor, tltat he b8li placed
Japiter TCIII- u a -uoel toJupiter Capito-
linus; and,. in~ on tbe DtSt c~a,. a
bell, such aa Hentioels use ia cases of alarm,
wu huag ap ill da• maple of Capitoline
Jove•.
. .Aaother...._ee whish nepedltl the pbblic
religioll 91 the coaotry,. is related by. Valeriu
Muimus, Livy, Dionyaius of HalicamalfiWI,
mel otherst*who infoun us, tbM Japits beiuc
• Dion. Cass. J... liv.
f Vitlerius Muim. L. i. C. 7. de Sonmiit. PllltaKb. ia
C. MaD:.. Corjqlep LUy. L. ii. §.. 3Q.
10
cl'enfid by the puniahment of a slave- in the
fimrm., in sight of a public proc:aaion, aigui&d
lo Titus Atinius hisdispleasure onthe occaaiou..
On the dream being alighted., the son ofAtioiu
WM struck with death., and be himlelf. after-
wards depri\'ed of the ase of his limbe, f011
aegleetiog the divine comiiUIDd i· till., at leugth.,
being I'OIIIed to obedieace, he WM carried OD
a CODC:h to the llelllte, and after thll deJivery
of his mt!IIBie, pea:eiv~ a recovery of m.
streugtb, aod, to the aarprise of all preaaat,
walked bome wi&hoat auy auiataoee.
Sergiu.Galbahaiingpreparedarichdiamencl
neckJace to adom the statue. of Fortune at.
Tusculum., aad afterwards., on chaoging his
aiind., presented i& td the Capimline· V~,
was visited in the IUCCeeding uiglt t.y the
image of Fertune, threateniag him, that as she
had been defrauded of the deatioed preADt, so
abe. should soon take aWII1 what she had con-
ferred upon him ; soon after which., saya the
lltory, Gal~ died• •
• Fulpriu..
il
Upon these and similar relations we haft to
Gbserve, that u it is not probable that God
would suffer the reverence of mankind to be
t~Xci&ed in favour of the 'ctitious deities of the
heathen world, by any miraculous suftiage to
the opinion of their existence, we must be in-
clined to consider theae dreams as Jumog
merely a cuual reference to historical cireum-
etances; or perhaps as fictitio111 inventions in-
tenftt,d to raise surprise, or respect, for the
wonhip and ceremonies of pagan supentition.
Upon similar considerations, we should be
inclined to diaeredit the relation which is given
of the repeated appearances of Hercu1es to
Sophocles, to point out the person who had
etolea a golden patera from his temple ; on
the conviction of whom tbe temple was said
to have been dedicated te Herculear, the dis-
coverer •.
• He,vwood'a Hier. L iv. p. !2f.
Even those pe1'80118 who useot to the in-
spiration of dreams which. bad a beae6ciU
tendeocy, must reject auclt as cODtnldict the
•ure priociplea of religion, and in'folve eonse-
-quences inCODSistent with the declaml dod!rinea
of Scripture, •ince artaialy to repreaeot the
power of inspiration to l.ve contributed to
advaace the gleem, aad etrenphea the fetters
of auperlltition, must be deemed ~mious to
the attributes of that Being, whole jdloua
wisdom is undentood to delight in the progre111
of truth, and who· seems to have challenged
the works ao4 enerpes of preternatural power
and knowledge, io .exclusive support of the
evidence..and claiDl8 of true religion.
It may be said, perhap~ that we .ue aa•
thorized by sacred instrudion to maiatain, that
the Almighty bas often judged it l'ight to dis-
play his resentment against gross and 8agnmt
wickedness, by suffering its followers to be
infatuated in the delusions of their own vanity,
and hardened in the obatinacy of their wilful
~tror ; ujecti.g them IOIDetimel DOt only to
the arts and wicked contrivanc:es of iatereated
men, bat also to the imposing miracles and
malignant decepti0111 of 111perior beiap; and
that as the wonders which God permitted the
magiciaua of Egypt to perform cootributed
to aggravate the pe.rveneness of Pharaoh, ao
dreama .00 oracles might, u Justin Martyr•
•upposed, be purposely auft"ered, at the JUg-
gestioa of evil spirits, to millead thoae who..
disrq;ardiog the simple erideace of a Jtupcm-
cious and weB-regulated creation, w'bi!:h never·
ceased to bear testimony to the government of
au iu.telligeut and benevolent God, plunged
tbeuurelvea into the depths of a pro6ipt.e and
liceutious idolaby.
Whatever force we may allow to this argo.
ment, we cannot supp<Me, that when God w~
aot particularly oft"ended, and when tbe dreams
which were furnished actually atfardeJ delive1-
• ApoJ. c.i.
ance, ·that they ..ere designed to be iilstru.
mental to the punishment of general error.
It is an arrangement undoubtedly consistent
with general and -equitable laws, that the pu-
nishment of sins should result from the indul-
gence of evil, as Saul,when he wished to·break
through the appointed and acknowledged de-
crees of God, by having recourse to those ne-
cromantic arts which he himself had discoam-
tenanced as superstitious, heard his fatal sen-
tence uttered with unerring truth; and as Ahab
was justly seduced by an evil spirit, when he
refused to listen to any prophet who predicted
aot ~~ smooth things" unto him ; still however
it is 11tterly improbable, that communications
of divine mercy should have been designe~ to
be merely subservient to the establishment. of
error. If the dream, which was said to have
been imparted to Stilpo, had any foundation iD
truth, it should seem to have been designed
to check the spirit of offering up expenliive
eblatioDB to the heathen deities. The account
' represents him to bave dreamt, that be saw
Neptone ~adating with him for not haVilll
immolated an ox to him, as was the cuslolll
of the priests. Upon which he rem0118h'ated
with the deity,for coming like a d1ild, to corn-
p1nin to him, that he bad not filled the city
\\'itb the smoke of an expensive sacrifice, wbeo .
he had -done what his circumstances would ad-
mit : upon which the god extended his hand
to him with a smile in proof of approbation,
and promised that, on his account, he would
afford a plentiful supply of watel' to the Me-
garensi.arul '*.
Upon the whole then, bo·wever unwilling to
weaken any impressions which. may be con-
-ceived to have ev~ an indirect tendency to
promote moral purposes, the author c.on-
.ceives, that there is little or nothin6 to be col-
lected from the history of heathen antiquity,
\\'hich can be allowed to establish the suppo-
sition of d1cams being prot;hetic; and perhaps
• Plutarch. Vul, i.
VOL. I. c
i6
.indeed it will be judged, on reSection, .that
aDJ advmtage which might occasionally result
from a belief of the interference of the Su-
.preme Being in the suggestion of dreams,
would be more than counterbalanc:N by the
erroneous apprehensions and superstitious fean
'M1ic:h auch a persuasion would ~der.
'
CHAPTER III.
~ONCi'.JtNING OTHI:R DREAMS 'B.ELATI.D Ur
f'ROF.AN E .ACCOU!ITS OJ' .AJICIKKT Bll•
TO& Y.
Nor call a god upon the ltage to stand.
Unless tbe cause require a gedlike bancl.
Nec deus .iutersit.-Hmrce. De .drl. Pon..
IT deserves to be remaiked, .as an objection
to many of the dreams mentioned in ancient
accounts, which lay claim to the reputation of
having been inspired, that they are represented
to have predicted events which it was of no
advantage to reveal, aud of which no care
could avoid the accomplishment.
The dreams recorded in Scripture were cai-
£Ulated especially to estahlish the evidence, and
conspire witl1 the designs of religion ; they u~
c 2
28
(olded the scenes of futurity for the consolation
aud encouragement of faith, for the attestation
to character, and for the manifestation of
God's councils. The threats and the promises,
"hich they disclosed, were ,for adequate pur-
poses, and someti~es suspended on conditions
·and revocable decrees, they were given with
the evidence and clear manifestation of truth,
were attested by signs, and explained to those
who had reason to look to their completion,
and to hope or to tremble without the imputa-
tion of credulity.
But the dreams, mentioned by heathen
WI iters, were delivered to persons .who had
·often no especial claim to divine a~ention, and
who had no reason to respect them till some
~orrespondent event awakened regard.
If Alcibiades dreamt that l1e was clad in the
robe of his mistress, which a few days after
"'·as affectionately wr~pped round his unburied
and neg.lected body ; or if, as other writers
represent, he di·eamt that lie was beheaqed by
. ~ .·
llagams, we cannot percei,-e tbat any usrful
warning was designed. So if when Pvlycralt-s,
the tyrant of Samos, departed from that islaml,
in order to repair to Orcte~ (the gO\·ernor of
~ardis under Cyrus) his daughter dreauu:d tl at
she saw her father lifted up in the air, wlliU
Jupiter washed, and the Suu anointed him,
we know not what good purpose was to be
served, even though same <Edipus should l1ave
explained to him, that the dream predieted
that be should be banged by Oretes; and that
his body remaining, should be washed by the
rain, and the fat be melted by the ·sun •.
'· The dream proclaimed the parentwas deceivrd
By secret 01nens, nor hi~ fate perceived t.
• The inutility of such intimations may be
:further illustrated by other relations : when
Crresus dreamed that his accomplished son
Atys was transfixed by a javelin headed by
• Herod. L. iii. Camerae. Oper. Sabsec. Cent. t. C. 57.
t Claudian. L. ii.
c 3
so
iron., he did all that pareatal solicitude could
111ggest, in removing him from the command of
the Lydian forces, and in giving him a wife
wh011e affection might conspire, in all precau-
tions, to seeure him from injury ; ant'l when
the prince was accidentally killed by tJ...., javelio
of a faithful attendant at the bunting of a
boar, we perceive that the fatal prediction of
the dream could be calculated only to distw:b
the mind of Cr«Esus, and to aggravate tbe U.
Oiction which drove the unhappy Adrastus to
suicide •. While
" The wretched mortal did not 'acape tbe blow t."
Nay, sometimes attention to dream• seems_to.
have been the cause of crimea and misfortuna.-
if we receive the aecounts which are given to
'Us ; thus Paris is said to have eloped with.
Helen under the eROOUI'IIgemeut of a dream,
in which Venus promised him her ~tanc:e.
• Herod. L. i.
t Sophoelea-Couult 'l'estnJL Lib. de .ADim. C. ~. Pita.
L.u... C.L
31
Astyages, sovereign of the Medes, 1-..a•iJw
dreamed that a vine spriogiag from bi• daug~
ter overspread all Asia, the soothsayers led him
to apprehend that her offspring would deprh·e
him of his dominion•. lo order to prevent
this, he gave her in marriage to Cambysea, an
obscure. Persian, and delivered her son Cynu
to a. coofidential servant to be 1lain ; but the
· direction not being obsened, the child lived to.
overcome Astyage», and to translate the kine•
clom from the Medea to the Persiam •.
Cambyses, when in Egypt, fancied ia hit
sleep that he saw a messenger arrive front
Persia,who reported to him that Smerdis,who
bad excited his jealousy, being seated on the
-:oyal throne, bad touched the bea\'eDI with h•
bead; on which he sent one of his confidential
servants to put him to death ; which being ef-
fected, gave occasioo to the setting up of a
• Herod. L i.
more.formidable rival in a iictitious SmeFdis,
and eventually caused the death of Cilm-
~yses•.
Hamik:ar, when he besieged Syracuse,- i•
reported to have dreamed that he should sup
the .nnt night in ~he towu. Encouraged by
the vision he attempted the assault ; but a mu-
tiny having arisen in his army, the townsmeD
$&de a sally and took him prisoner.
Justus, a patrician· Roman in the reign of
Constantius, dreamed that the purple issued
from his loins : the report of the dream, it it-
said, excited the jealousy of Constantine, and
provoked the empeFor to put him to death ;
but hi1 only daughter, Justina, a beautiful and
lnodest girl, being seen in the bath by Severa
Augusta, and made her attendant; and being
c:om~eoded to Valentini1111, so engaged his af-
fections, that be obtained a law t9 marry her,~
lt Herod. L. iii.
,
and made her a joint partner of the empire
with his emp1ess.
N aronianus is related to have dreamed tl1at
be was made consul, and that his son became
emperor.· Upon the death of Julian, the soat
ascended the imperiallhrone; but Narouianus
dying, a son of the new emperor, "hose name
also was Naronianus, was elected consul, 'and
the dreamer appeared to have been amused
with a delusive ambi.;uity •.
• Fulgosiua.
c 5
it
}
and made l1er a joia! ,.._.. of tbe c:.r:.-c
with bis emp1ess.
Naroniant.. is related to ba<re en~ !~.at
he was made coosul, ad tlalt bi§ .,.,::. ~c:.n.e
emperor. · Upon the deada of Juliaa, t!.e "'..a
ascended the imperid i brooe ; L~at ~::. ..-.£;....ut
~yiog, a 1100 of the ntW' emperor, "L ~ w..·:.l'!
also was Narooiauus, \\ali eltc:tt·J O"'l.t.~!, .c. i
the dreamer appeared to De Lua aa:.astd
with a delusive ambi=ui~y •.
• FaiJOSial.
CHAPTER IV.
tAB.TIIER. B.EIIAB.B:S ON DB.EAliiS lrElf-
TlONBD IX ANCIENT liiSTOB.Y.
:Barbarians nnrr taste the llallow'd ltreaiDI
Of Prophecy, nor are ilupir'd by dreams.
Claudiml. ia lf•f· L. ii. Pref. 'A"ullw Caatali& &o.-
--
JT may perhaps lte imagined, that some au-
thority shguld be ascribed to those dreams
which are recorded as ha¥ing had a beneficial
tendency, and as having proved conducive to
the preservation and comfort of nations and
illustrious persons.
Herodotas mentions,that when Sennacherib
invaded Egypt with a strong army, and the
soldiers, who had been iujuriously treated by
Scthon, refused to u~ist in the defence of the
c:ountry, the priest repaired to the temple of
,
his·god, .ud falling amidst his lamentations
ioto sleep, dreamed that the deity appeared to
him, and encouraged biul with the auurance,
that if he marched against the troops of the
Assyrians, be should su.ffer no injury, for that
God would send him auistance. Enco~ed
by the vision he marched with his followers,
among \lhom were no soldiers, to Pelusiu1n,
where ,,.ast_ numbers of mice in the night iu-
nded the enemy : they gnawed their quivers
and bows, and thongs of the shields, so that
the next day the Assyrians took ftigbt, and
.many were destroyed •. This, however, seems
to be a penerted account of the relation given
in the sacred history t.
There are other dreams, which appear to
}lave bad a tendency to produce useful pur-
poses; such are those related to have occurred
to Tbemistocles when in exile. In one here
allt&ded tO, he i11 related, when advancing to-
ward. a city called Leootoccpbalus, ·or the
• .Herod. L. ii. C. 141. t l! King• xiz. 3.).
c 0
..-
..
S6
· ·J...ion's Head, to have imagined in a sleep, intu-
which he had fallen in the middle of the day~
that he beheld the goddess Cybele, who advised
him to flY the I...ion's Head, unless he meant
to fall into the Lion's jaws, requiring the de-
dication of his daughter Mnesit>toleme as a~
acknowledgment for the intimation. ThemiS'-
tocles, we are told, avoided the city in obeo-
dience to the suggestion, and thereby escaped
the Pisidians,who had been engaged by Epixia
·the Persian-· to assassinate him* ; and in grate-
ful memory of the deliverance, built a temple
in tlie city of Magnesia, ~hich he dedicated to
~ybele Dyndimene, appointing his daughter to
.be the_ priestess.
On another occasion, when concealed at
.i£gre, a city of the lEtolians, he is reported
to have dreamed, that Olbius, the tutor of the
children of his host, appeared to him one
• ;Plut. in Tbemilt.
I
night after a sacrificial feast, and in a prophetic
. rapture, uttered thia verse:
" Counsel, 0 Night, and victory are thine !"
after which he also dreamed,· that a dragoa
coiled itself round his body, and on creepin'
up his neck, and touching his face, was turned
into an eagle, "·hich spread his wings over
him, and ftew away with bim to a diata11t
place ; where he beheld a golden sceptre, upon
·which be rested in security, and free from fear.
The circumstances of the dream were. sup-
posed to have been completed in the escape of
Themiatocles from the house, by a stratagem of
.Nicogenes, in the covered carriage of a wo-
man, .and•in his favourable reception by.Ar-
taxerxes.
Peticiu.<~, wbo ~ceived Pompey into his
bark; when flying from- the battle of Pbarsa1i_a,
is said to have beholden, when in port at l.a-
rissa, in his sleep, on. a preceding night, the
mnquished hero unattended and wretchedi,Y
38
dotbed, approaching him •, and to have tohl
the dream to his companiooa before its accom-
.PJjslunent.
Historians report of Artorius, or, u so~
style him, of Marcus AntooiWI Musa, the .phy-
aiciao of Octavianus, afterwards Augustus, that
Minerva appeared to him in a dream the night
before the battle of Philippi, enjoining him to
warn Octavianus not to omit being present at
the battle, notwithstanding his severe disorder.
In consequence of which Octaviaous, being
carried in his littEr into the field, escaped from
the soldiers of Brutus, who gained possession
-of his campt with the expectation of killing
him,
If we regard these as instances of a provi-
dential care of distinguished men, we 91ust
• Alexander ab Ale:.:. Genial. Dier. L ii. C. 26.
t Plutarch. Ant. C. liB. Valeriaa :Ma:~im. L yii, Vellciia
J>atercW. L ii.
conSider the deities introdueecl to have beet~
employed merely • machinery familiar to the-
heathenworld, such beiag calculated to impreuF
the persons to whom the warniags were ad-
dressed, and to enNe their regard. Yet evea
upon this mppositioo we must conceive, that
God eDCOUraged iadinctly a coriUnce ia false-
deities~
But the dreat1111 miglat he the effeet of .OO..
citude, casually prochactive of safety to the
person• concerned. The rccoHection of the
town in which Themietodes resigned himeelf'
to anxioos sleep, and the hope of protectioa
from Artaxenre~, mi!ht haYe contributed to
his security: and the presenee of Augustus at
the battle of Pbanalia, mUlti ha\·e been of so
much advantage ill encouraging the soldiers,
and perhaps 80 much beUer for the patient
than the anxiety of absence, that tbe play.sician
might conceive it euential to success or re-
c.-overy, ad really imagine in~ deep,. or po...
litically fabricate the dream.
40
Alexander is related by historiatlS to have
dr ed, after com·mitting himself to sleep
ith great solicitude in the chamber with his
fri nd Ptolemy, who had been wounded 'in
me eugagemeat in the East, that he saw the
fi.,ure of a dragon or serpent, which his mother
I ·mpias cheri!>hed, and which she feigned
t ha e been the father of Alexander, which
oted him with a root that the monster
nied in his mouth, as a remedy for 'the
i n. Alexander described the colour
of the herb, and affirmed that he should
lnu' · it, if found; which, on its being accord-
in •ly disco,·ert.d, he did, and applied it with
to the wound of his friend and others.
h·. nndf'r, desirous of exciting a salutary
' n td nee in his friend, and of impressing his
nrm ·ith tl:e it!ca of his influence with the
H ,;, might contrive the dream, availing him-
If f the L.nowlt!dge of some remedy of the
~mt · perhap." communicated to him by tb~
J I llCJ' ·•
. ·Such accounts~ as Cicero observes., troe er
falae, are.too rare, and referable to casoal cir..c
cumstaoees~ to authorise any idea of inspira--
tion•.
Cicero, we are told, during his flight from
Rome, being s.t Atiua, imagined that he beheld
ia his sleep Caius Marius, preceded by the
fasces bound with laurel, who encouraged -
on his dejection at being obliged to leave his-.
~untry, and consigned him to the care of a
lictor, who was instructed to place him in the
I;DODUment of Marius, where, it was said, wu
the hope of a better fortune. Sallust, on heiU'-
iug the dream, is related to have foretold a
speedy return to Cicero, which was soon after-
~ards effected by an unanim&U& deer.ee of the
~enate, passed in the Marian Temple of JQve.
The local correspondence, if correctly stawd,
was remarkable: Cicero, however, did· not
think it necessary to have recourse to any &Urt
• De Divin. L. ii. f. 68. Diod. Sicul. L. :nii. p. 575
Q. CUrtia. L. is. C. 11.
·pematural agency on thia occasion, bot .eou--
ceived that the dream might be the production
of a mind eugaged in ·meditation on the fate
and fortitude of Marius, with application, we
may conceive., to the c:irCUIDitanc:ea of hill own
fortune •.
There are also other dreami_, which, how·
ever their circumstances might correspond with
historical events that afterwards happened, cao
llave no claim to be colllidered as inspired,
mice they might have produced their own ac-
compliabment_, being casual and vague, and
'fel'ified by the operationof devotion, solicitude.,
or fear:
AD inttanc:e mentioned by Cicero may ~
thus explained : Decius, the first consul of his
family, in c:onsequenc:e of a dream, in which
victory wu promised to the anny whose com-
mander should devote himself to death_, and
• Valeriu :MaW~. L. i. C. 7'.
4S
ill which he appeared to &11 wit& great rJ.or1
·in the midst of his enemies, rushed to de-
-ltnlrtion three years after iD an engagement
\\ith the Latins,_ a victim to his aupentitioue-
credulity and raalmese•.
Tacitus thiob it Decellllll'1 to apologize fot
-relating, that Curtius Rufn~t, when attending
on ·a questor, who bad obtained a department
in Africa, was addrt>ued in the retirement of
a deserted portico at Adrimetum, in the mic:IJt
of the day, JJy a female figure of m~
appearance, who declared to him that he·
ahould come as coD8Ul intothat province,which.
afterwards happened agreeably t1o the pretended
-...1:.-h •
r•"'un.wOB •
There are eome other dreams deacribed ia
acient ac:coapts, which may be considered •
the work of a creative fancy, occupied witla
111xiety on great eventa.
• De Divln. X...L
' Tac:ir. AliDa!. X.. ii. C.l1~o
.. Hannibal, we are told by Cicero, after •
Grecian historian, dreamed, on the tak~ng of_
Saguntum, that he was carried by Jupiter· into
the coqncil of the gods, and there commanded
by him to carry war into Italy : one of the
heavenly council was appointed as a conductor
in the expedition. HannibaJ,.on· his mardi,
was directed by his guide not to look back ;
but, prompted by human curiosity to disregard
the instruction, he turned and beheld an hor-
rible monster enfolded by ·serpents, and fol-:.
lowed by a tremendous storm and darkness;,
which, wherever he proceeded, laid every thin,g.
waste. On inquiry Hannibal was informed,
that the monster represented the devastation of
Italy, but was directed to proceed, regardless
of the effects of his march. What was this but
a picture which might naturally present itself to
~e mind of the Carthaginians, pledged by ~
-JBcred oath to carry devastation into Italy • ?
• Cicero de Di-viD. Liv. L. ni. §. U.
r
It would be weU if conquerors in general
would look to the horron which must fol~
low in the track of their ambition : it might
check some at least in their destructive
course.
When Cassius and Brutus were about to
pass from Asia into Europe, in the dead of the
night, while the moon reflected a feeble light
on the silent camps, a black and horrible
spectre is said to have appeared to Brutus,
who sat mUBing in· his tent concerning the
event of the war, with a taper nearly extin-
guished placed before him. Brutus, with a
firm tone, demanded what, either man or god,
he was. The spirit answered," Brutus, I am
thy _evil Genius; thou shalt see me again at
Philippi." Brutus replied, " I will see thee
there... The spirit accordingly re-appeared on·
the plains of Philippi the night before the last
battle. The morning after the tirst vi11ion, Brutqs
related to Cassius what be had seen, and cx-
_pounded to hi~ from the doctrine of the Epi-
eureans what was to be thought of sucb spec-
tres•.
Cassius ill reported to have seen in the same,
battle the figure of Julius Cuar on horseback
preparing to strike him, which terrified him to
flight and suicide : but these and other ac-
counts of apparitions, though they relate to
the belief in preternatural interpositions, do not
strictly come within the aubject of our discus..
aioft, :and we shall therefore wave the consi.
,deration of them.
The dream of Xenopbon, in which be ima•
gined that the fetters with which he was bound
spontaneously broke, and \Vbicb encouraged
the troops of Cyrus when about to pat~~~ a river
en the borden of Armenia, in defiance oftbe
enemies, who harassed their retreat and ob-
structed their progress, might have been the
• l'llltarch. in BI'Bt. Lips.Mon. L i. C. 5.. p. ?:5.
47
.result of solicitude, or the contrivance of po-
-licy. Xeoophon, however, appears to have
been impressed with a greater reverence for
the existing superstitions than might have beeu
expected from a disciple of Socrates.
SyUa, before his succe~~~ful engagement with
Marius, pretended to dream that be recei~ed
from PaUu a thunder-bolt, the emblem of
-.ictory ; and afterwards, in the same spirit,
professed to have dreamed the night before he
.defeated the son of Marius, that he had seen
him in a dream admonished by his father to
avoid an action.
A dr~am of like nature is attributed to Ju-
das Maccablftls, who, when about to engage
with inferior forces the anny of Demetrius,
·.king of.Syria, under the command of Nicanor,
is related in the second book of Maccabees,
a wodt of doubtful authority, to have beholden
.the high priest Onias~ who was then dead_,
praying to G.od for theJewish nation, and a(.
Jl
48
•wards Jeremiah the prophet presenting lairn
with a golden sword of conquest. In the cOJi..
4idenoe of the dream he is stated to have de-
.fated the Syrians, with a slaughter of thirty
and five thousand m~n ..,•
Pompey and Cresar each dreamed before
their final conflict, that he dedicated a temple
to Venus, the victorious. The blind and lame
men who applied to Vespasian at Alexandria,
and are reported to have been miraculously
cured by him, pretended to have been admo-
flished in a dream by the god Serapis to address
themselve11 to the emperor. The cure and the
dreams were probably equally contrived to do
honour to Vespasian t, whose elevation Jose-
phus also professes to have predicted t· ·
*Fnlgosius. !! 1\.faccab. xv. 12.
t De Bell. Jud: L. iii. viii. et de Yit. §. 42. et Sueton,
V.:•pu*· C. 5,
Onomarchus~ who excited the Phoeans to
persevere in maintaining the possession of the
trea8ury of Delphi~ wu encouraged in his de-
aign by a dream, in which the brazen CotoiSUS,
dedicated by the Amphyctions to ApoDo, had
by his haads been made higher and larger,
which he CODiidered ~ figurati~e of his ex-
ploits; but ·Diodorus Siculus, judging by the
event, informs us, that it signmed, that the
mulct· imposed by the Amphyctioos upon the
Phocans for their sacrilege would be much
' ·· adftllced through Onomarcbus ; which,indeed,
b as probable as the other•.
• Biod. Sic. L m. C.-2-.
'teL. lo
-
50·
CHAPTER V.
6-!f OTIIER ANCIENT DB.EA:MS OP A. liUS-
CJ!.LLA)T J!.OUS CBAB.ACTEB..
:But.it is an abulll! of time to commit such d~ma te
paper.-Vit. Tic. Lit!ii, a J«. Phil. ToiiiGSo ceruc:n,t. Yen..
rni~ ~ro, 4·c.
T11 AT the p~teosions of antiquity to the
claim of inspired dreams may be fairly exa-
mined, another chapter or two should be as-
signed to some otber accounts, which have
been transmitted to us, with a show of autho-
rity, and which may equally be"expl!tioed on
very simple considerations.
The dream in whicll the apprehensions of
Antigonus, king of Macedonia, foresaw the
fligl1t of Mitbridates, the illustrious ·captive,
.whom after the conquest of Persia he detauu:tl
ib his service, and whom be imagined to have
seduced away the ftower of his troops, may be
referred to thejealous peneh'ation ofAntigouus,
who might have detected the views of Mithri-
dates, and whose sleeping thoughts might have
l'eviv&d the solicitude of the day.
The account is as follows :-Aotigonus
dreamed that he sowed gold in a spaci01u field.,
and that the seetl sprung up, ftourished, and
ripened; but that soon after the golden harvest
was reaped, and nothing left but the worthless
stubble and stalks, and that then ·he lward a
voice proclaim that Mithridates was fted to the
Euxiue Sea, canying with him all the harvest:
the king being awake, and exceedingly terrified,
l'esolved tG cut off Mitbridates, and commu-
nicated the matter to Demetrius, exacting of-
him a previous oath of silence. Demetrius,
who was favourably disposed towards Mithri-
date~; met him on coming from the king: The
young priRce cempaesionated his friend, and
was restrained only by a reverence for his o*
from openly imparting the secret. T~ him,~
» i
..
however, aside, he wrote on the sand with the ·
point of his spear, "Fly Mithridates." Ad-
mo~ished by these words, and.the countenance
ofDemetrjus., Mithridates tiedintoCappadoeia,
and not long after fow1ded .the famous and
powerful kingdom of Pontus, which contjtued
from him to the eighth descent, the last M.1thri-
(lates being_with much difficulty overthrown by
all the power and forces of the Romans •.
It may be incidentally remarked~ that the
conduct of Demetrius reminds us of. the
amiable kindnesa of Jonathan towards David,
in counselling_ his tlight from the envious jea-
lousy of Saul t.
Some dreams may reasonably be ascribed to
political contrivance, as those related by Hero-
dotus to have .oecurred to Xerxes and Arta-
banus, on occasion of the Persian ~pedition
into Greece. In the former a penon of re-
· • Plutarch. in Demetrio et Appim.
t 1 Siim. c:hap. XL.
~~
I
I
53
'llllrkable atature and beauty is repre11e11ted to
.have twice expostulated with Xerxes for waver-
ing in his resolution, in consequence of the
mggestions of Artabanus, who bad urged the
danger bf the invasion ; and on his determina-
tion to undertake the war, the wreath of' a.D
olive tree, whose branches covered the earth,
iS described to have crowned him in intimation
of victory, as the Magi misinterpreted tbf!
fallacious omen. In the latter the same phantom
remonstrated with Artabaous for endeavouring
to prevent the execution of the design. Some
writers consider this as the invention of Arta.:
banus, willing to soothe the king by artfully
accedin~ to his favourite scheme, but perhaps
all may be regarded as the concerted fabrication
of Xerxes and Artabaous, desirous of exciting
a confidence in the public mind,by representing
the expedition as countenanced by the gods •.
If there were any thing preternatural m the
• Herod. L vii. C. U. §, 19.
D S
54
dream, it was the suggestion of an evil spirit~
which impeDed Xerses aod hia arlll)'to destruc-
tion.
' .
• Julius CresBP is reported r, haYe projected
the rebuilding of Carthage. in consequence or
a dream in which be beheld a great army in
affliction inviting him to.the work, and Augustua
is reported to have accomplished the design itt
regard to the memory of his uncle. But dreams
wh~ch were related to have happened oa tbf!:
buildings of cities, and the establishment of
colonies, were endless ; upon "'hich we may
observe in the words of Livy, H 1\s for those
things which are related before the building of
the city, which are more like poetical decora·
tions than historical truths~ I neither "·iab to
affirm or refute them : we gr~~ot this indulgence
to antiquity, that by mingling divine with
human circumstances,. it rendered the origio&
of cities more augustt ."
!" Appiaa. t Li-.ii Jl!•t. Pre£.
•
55
The dreatns which are said to baYe predicted
·the cbaro~cter and actions of illustrious men,
appear often to be but nursery inventions, OJ'
.the datteries and embellishments of history.
I
Such as was that of Agariste, the mother
of Pericles *, who.dreamt before his birth that
she was delivered of a lion; and to mention no
more, those of Octavius and Attia, tbe pareDtB
of Augustus, the latter of whom fancied, the
.day before her delivery, that her bowels were
carried up as hi~h as heaven, and theoc:e spread
out to cover the earth t.
Almost all the Roman emperors professed
· to have had presages, or found others to pro-
claim the indications that foreshewed their
greatness. The elegant tlattery of Cicero
beheld Octavianus, whom the favour of Cresar
bad destined to the empi~., let down in a
• Plut. in Pericles.
t Sabell. Ex L i. C. i. P. 6.
D4..
-
...
56
golden ehair from heaven•; ud Quintus -
Catulus, another noble Roman,. pretended to
have seen Jupi~er deliver into his hands, while
yet a child, the enaigus of the Roman peoplet.
The auspicious dream of Trajan, who waa
crowned in his sleep, and of Hadrian, who
experienced uninjured the descent of celestial
nre t; and of Antoninus, who fancied that he
had shoulders and arms of ivory §; of Severw-,
·who imagined that he mounted the horse whick
bad t~rown Pertinax to the ground U
; and
many others, that might be meutioned, carry
the air of fiction ; and are such as Cice>ro
places on a footing with those of lEneas and
Hecuba. 'rhey remind us of the dream w~ich
Euripides attributes to lphigenia when ill
• Cicero De Divin. L ii; §. 68. · Diod. SicuL L uiil
1.>.575.
t Dioo. Cass. L. x)y,
*DioU: Caus. L. vi. §. 1~ Xipbil, ia A.ug_lllt,
§ Dioo. Cass. L. )~xi.
0 Iphi&ea, il\. Taurit.
57
Tauris, in which she, fancying b~self with
her virgin follower~ at Aulis, beheld t~e roofs
of Palaces shattered by an _earthquake, and
one column standing alone ~midst the wreck of
her father's house, expressive, as she conceived,
of the death of Orestes.
These seem to have been imitated in later
times, as in the dream of Arlotte, the mother
of William the Conqueror, wh~ fancied that
her bowels were spread ovet all Normandy •;
in that of the mother of the Maid of Orleans,
who dreamed that she brought forth a thunder·
bolt ; and lastly in t~t of the mother of
Scaoderl>eg, who is said to have dreamed
that she saw a serpent wh,i~h covered all Epirus_,
his head being str~tcbed over the Turkish
dominions, where ~--devoured every thing with
,loodyjaws, his ~ii ~preadiog over the Christian
~mpire, and particularly affecting the Venetian
empire t.
* Baker'• Chron. P•. IS.
t Barletii Hast. de Gr.st. Scaud. L i. C. at. P. ~so.
• 5
,...
--
58
There are some other dreams· of a simiJar
4escription, which seem to have bees contrived,.
like other auspiciousOmens,to excite confidence
in military expeditions,. Qd· to shed a. divine·
!J'&ee oa ~onquerors. When Timoleon .wa.
about to sail from Corinth on an enterprize
against Syracuse, the priestess of Proserpine-
bad a dream, io whieh the goddess and her-
mother Ceres appeared in a travelling dress,.
promising to accompany Timoleon inte Sicily ;
in respect to which dream a sacred gaHey wa5
built, and called the Galley of the Godde1111•..
Germanicus,the night before his vidoryover
Arminius, is representecil to have dreamed,.
that his robe being sprinkled wi'h blood ef a
-sacrifice whieh he performed, ·he received
uother more beauliiful from his grandmother"f.
Even savage nations appear to b~e availed
themselves of this art, Thus among the
• Pl!!tareh. in Timoleon.
't Tacit. A.mlal. L. ii. f. 1._
59
Tartars, who in ancient times lived in Jmaus,
a. part of Mount TauruH, was a sort of la.Wless
wandering shepherds, among whom \vere cer-
tain families, called Malgotz, leagued ~nder
chosen leaders, though subject to be oppressed
by the neighbouring nations : among those a
·blacksmith of the name of Caagius, pretended
to· have seen in a dream a person in armour
sitting on a white horse, who thus addressed
him ? '' Cangius, it is the will of God that
thou shouldest shor~ly be the king and ruler of
the Tartars that are called Malgotz, thot1 shalt
free them from that servitude under which
·they have long groaned, and tlae neighbouring
:nations shall become subject unto them."
Cangius the next morning rehearsed his drentn.
before the seven princes and elders of Malgotz.
·Being disregarded, all of them the next nigh~
seemed ia their sleep to behold the person of
:whom he bad told them, and to hear him
commanding them to obey Cangius. Where-
tlpon the princes assembling took the oath of
allegiance, and entitled Cangius their first
emperor, or in tl1eir ·language, Chan, from
'D6
60
11rhenc:e the title was derived to his successeJY:
the emperor freed his people, reduced Georgia
and the greater Armenia, and afterwarils wasted
Polouia and Hungary••.
These accounts are equalled by oth.en in
later times. Ertucules,having slept after dinner,
was confounded "·hen he awaked with a
dream ; and ba)'iog, according to the precepts
of his religion, bathed his body to purify
himself, repaired to Edebales, a person of
«reat reputation for wisdom and sanctity; and
thus ad~re&~~ed him. " I dreamed, v.enerabl~
Sir, that the brightness of tile moon did pro-
ceed from your bosom, and thence afterward&
did pass into mine; when it was thither come,.
there sprung up a tree from ray navel which
overshadowed at once many nations, mountains,
and valleys. From the root of this tree there
issued waters sufficient to irrigate vines and
·• See Grf'p. de llepub. L. sir. C. i. f. :l!). Herbert~
.:rruel•, L. vi. .Pur.el;lu. P.Jg. tom. i..L. ~... f· t.
61
prdeos, and there both my dream and IWJ
1leep forsook me." Edebale., after aome
pause, thU8 answered. " There will be bora ·
unto you, my good friend, a 100 whoee name
shall be Osman, he shall wage many wars,
1hall acquire to himself victory aud glory, and
your posterity shall be lords and kings of many
nations, but my daughttlr must be married to
your son Osman, and she is that brightness
which you saw come from my bosom into
yours, and from both sprung up the tree."
The prediction is represented as the more
remarkable for the emblem .of the moon, since
we know that the crescent is tlie chief and
most remarkable ensign of the Turkish nation•
The relation has the air of a pompous and idle
tale, invented, probably, by the Battery of
parasites or historians •.
.
Hatred and indignation have also fabricated
dreams unfavorclble to the character of tyraotl.
• J.ipt. KaniJ, L. i. c. $. :r. 7'0.
--
While Dionysius,. the Syracuaan, was yet in a
private 11tation, Himera, a woman of distin-
pished family, is said to have dreamt, that
having ascended into heaven, and contemplated
the seats of the gods, she obsetved a powerful
man of a swarthy and freckled complexion
bound by iron chains .to the throne of Jove
under his feet; on interrogating the. youth who
conducted her, she understood that he repre-
sented the dreadful fate of Sicily and Italy,
and that when· loosed he would occasion the
destruction of many cities. The next day she
published the account, and when the tyrant
appeared as an evil spirit hurled from the chain
of divine custody, Himera seeing him with a
crowd, e."tclaimed, " This is he whom I have
seen." This being told to Dionysius, provoked
him to put her to death •.
Tiberius, Caligula, Nero, and Domitian,
are each represented to have foreboded with
• Valer. Jlo(~. L LC. 7.
I.
r
«t•ilty apprehension in their_ dreamw, tbe .in-
dignation of the gods, as manifeated io their
aeveral fates.
Archelaus, having reigned ten years ·u.
Judea, was accused by his subjects to Cresar
of cruelty and tyranny, and was immediatel1
summoned to his tribunal, his "-ealth seized,
and be himself condemned to banishment. It
was pretended, that this issue of his affairs
bad been before disclosed to him in a dream,
in which be had seen ten earl of com strong,
full, and fruitful, wbich·were eaten up of oxen,
and which amidst different construc:tions,Simoo,
an Essa!ao, had interpreted to portend an un-
happy change of afFairs, as oxen were deemed
emblems of misery, being,creatures burthened
with work; and emblems of change, because
in ploughing they tum up the earth ; the ten
ear11 be represented to be so many years, in ·
which time the harvest should be gathered, and
the power of Atcbelaus be terminated • ~
• ~oaepb. Antit1· L. :nii. C. 15. Zooar.., t- i. P. f5.'
64
The character of private individuals, and_
the fate of private families, have also been
represented as objects of revelation by dreams.
. Socrates, before he received Plato as his
diaciple, is said to have beheld a swan, which
with growing feathers, and stretched out wings,
raised himself up, and sang harmoniously ;
and a thousand instances of similar tictio~
might be produced.
The drelm of Ecclinus, a Ro..n, which
exhibited Rome, seated on its hills, gradually
ascendin1 by an increasing elevation, and after- ·
wards diminishing again like melting snow, till
it was diB&Olved, ·is stated to have been de:-
criptive of the fortw1e of his family, as well
as of the city, his sons bemg first distinguished
by their victorious success, and afterwardt
rendered remarkable by their misfortunes.
Dion Cassius gratified by some commenda-
tory letters written to him by Severns, artfully
profeffed to have dreamt that be was directed
65
by divine instmction to write the history ofthe
emperor. He concludes his work also with
the.'le lines•:
Jaye matcla'd great Hector &om surrolllldiac IIJie&fl>
The rage uf ftr, its tumult aud ita fears.
Which he represents .his good genius to have
dictated to him in Bytbinia, commanding him
to subjoin them as prophetic of his fortuDe t·
Plutarch relates, that during the building of
the citadel at Athens, one of tbe moat active
and intelligent of the wo~ by falling
from a great height, was so bruised that his
life was endangered ; upon which occasion
Minerva appeared in a dream to Pericles, and
prescribed a remedy, by the aid of which the
man recovered. Pericles, probably, was wiJ.
ling to have the reputation of divine councils,
and employed the name· of Minerva to re·
t Diou. Cau. I. !xu. ,
-
·commend a prescription whieh his judgment
_appro~~·
Diodoi'U8 Siculus relates, that a certain
Scythim dreamt that lEscul~apius had drawn
. the humours of his body to one place, or head,
and wu afterwards c:oustrained to lance a
festered imposthume.
lEsculapius wu, indeed, supposed to usist
the sick in their dreamst, and dreams which
predicted, er pointed out the means ofrecovery,
were thought to be not .;IDfrequent. When
Galen had an inftammation about the dia-
phragma,hewas admonished in his sleep,we are
told, to open the vein most apparent between -
the thumb and the four finger, and to take a
quantity of blood from thencef. He did so,
and was restored to health. His reftectioni
• Plutarch. ia Pericles.
t Galen. de Sanit. tuend. L i. C. B.
t Schott. Phys. Curios. L. iii.C. IS. P. 501. Cal. Rbo4.•
.lat. Lcct. L uri. C•.,, P. 1150.
61
aigb.t ha•e saggeated " without a ghoet" tW
bleediug would be of service in an ioflamma.
tion, as they might also have taught him when
c:cmaulted in the case of a swelled tongue, to
direct a purge aod cooling applic:alioo, whicb
probablyhad more eft'ectthan a gargle oflettuce
juice which the megrim ofhis patieat promptecl
- him to have recoarse to, in coDBeqaenc:e of a
dream at the iame time, and from which h6
c:onc:eived that he derived great benefit•.
The emperor. :MIU'CUI .Aatooious ays that
he learned remedies for spitting of blood,~ and
fer dizziness, in hisdreams t. Dreamssimilar to
those above mentioned,.aresaid to havehappeD-
eel in modem times, as Sir Chriatoplaer Wren,
when at Paris in 1671, being disordered by a
fever and retention of urine, and a pain in the
reios, is reported to have aent for a physician,.
who advised him to let blood, thinking he had
• Heth. de Tu~d. L. aiT. C.~ See allo I.. Tii. ia
Precep.
t Ta "'AT.,
. 68
a pleurisy, bot bleeding being •ery disagreeable
to him_, he was determined to defer it. a day
longer; and is said to have dreamed that night
that he was in a place where palm trees grew;
and that a woman in a romantic habit reached
dates to him ; the next day he sent for dates
which cured him of the pain in his rein11; and
many other tales of this description are related.
A Roman widow, we are told by Fulgosiu~r,
dreamed that u she walked 'in a garden at
Rome, a roOt of the wild rose addressed her,
and directed her to write to her son w.ho was
then on some military expedition in Spain, to
instruct him that persons labouring under mad-
ness might be cured by that root. The widow,
.t is added,. following the instruction of the
qream, wrote a letter which opportunely ~each­
ing her soil after he had been bit by a mad
dog, preserved him just as the symptoms or
the hydrophobia were beginning to appear•.
• The word uaed is Cyaorrbodon, whic"ll signifies alse
the •weet briar, and ~ llowet of the Jed lilly.-Pli11.
t5, ~ aud 11, $.
69
Cornelius Rufus., who wu consul witla
1!1aonius Curius, ia aaid to have dreamed., that
he bad lost hia ~ht, and awoke blind: and
another pei'IIOn, we are told, dreamed that he
was bitten on the foot, and next day had a
eancer. These, perhape, were the forebodinp
of fear excited by pain, but what ahall we say
to the stoly of Man:us, tlae freedaan, of the
younger Pliny, who dreamed that some one
sitting on hill bed shaved him, and awoke well
trimmed: we must agn=o with FuJcoaius, that-
. .W. wu·a miracle. .
CHAPTER VI.
IUT ANCIENT DREAM'S, CONNECTED WITH
IMPENDING .DEATH.
The. pen o£ Death are open night and day.
])eytl.m'J T.--ll&t. tf..£uid. B. 6.
TH B dreams wh!ch have chietly seized the
imagination, and affectoo the credulity of man-
l.iod, have been those which appear to have
been connected with impending calamities and
death, and which, from the importance of
theit intention, have .been thought to justify
the supposition of preternatural inspiration, or
of the enlargement of the divine · powers of
the mind, on its approach to the scenes of
eternity and spiritual existence.
A belief in the reality of such intimations
lwi l"ef] commonly obtained ; but upou an ac-
l
71
curate eonaideratioo of the accounts eonveyed
to us from antiquity, it will derive little or no
confirmation from pagan history, and appear
not to have any foundati!iRI, except u esta.
blished on the relatio111 contained in thoee
Scriptures, which record the testimoaies of re-
vealed religioa.
As the prophetic declantiona of the pa-
triarchs, which occ:uionally revealed the fate
of their descendants, were often delivered witb
their expiring breath, the ideaoriginated in fact,
and concurring with the IDOit affecting appre.
hensions of maakind, was naturally cherished .
wherever it was conveyed by tradition.
Traces of the notion are discernible in the
most ancient heathen writings. The heroes of
Homer predict, at their death, the fate of their ·
victorious adversaries.
Intimations of impending destruction were
indeed universally believed to obtain, and va-
rio~ were the fancies of popul8r superititioa.
Euripides, in his tragedy of Rhesus, repre-
181lts the charioteer as describing himself, when
be slept on the fa,tal night that Ulylllle8 and
Diomede dealt destruction in the ~ian
camp~ .to have seen
... F011111 tremeDdeua boveriag in hit ckeaul."
.and ~ ~Ye beholden
Two viliiiiW1 woJyes ascend .
'Ibose counen'backs which he was wont to pide,
Ofl: lashing with theil- tails they forced them on ;
lndigsumt breathiaga they champecl the bit,
And strugling with diamay.
Just images of the warriors, wh9
., Bore the •teeds away,IIDd glitterin& car."
The accounts, however, which appear. to
have had any claim to be considered as au-
thentic, in addition to those before consid~ed,
are very few ; sucb !18 they are, they shall be
'produced.
Herodotus relates, that Hipj,ar.chus~ the
eon of Pisistratus, and brother of the t1rant
Hippias, the night before the festival or'tbe
Panathenea, beheld in a vision an impreasi•e
figure, which admonished him iu the followin1
ambiguous terms of his approaching fate, to
be inilicted on him by Aristogiton and Armo-
dius, the assertors of pnblic liberty.
Brave Lion, thy unconquer'd soul compoae.
To meet, unmoved, intolerable woes.
ln vain th' oppressor would elude his fate,
'l'he vengeance of the gods is sure, though Jato*·
.Aristotle relates, that Eudemius, a Cypria.
and his friend, on arriving at Phll!ca.<J, a noble
rity of Thessaly, on his way to Macedonia,
oppressed under the tyranny of Alexander, was
taken so ill, that all· the physicians despaired
ef -his recovery, when he saw iu his 81eep a
beautiful youth, who assured him that be would
soon recover, and that Alexander would die
in a few days, aud Eudemius return home five
years .after; .that it immediately happened -that
• Beloe's Translation of Herod. B.-v. Cb. 65.
'YOL, lo E
74
Eudemius recovered, and the tyrant wu slain
by his wife's brother; and that towards the
conclusion of the fifth year, when Eudemius
began to hope, on the encouragement of his
dream, to return from Sicily to Cyprus, he
fell in battle at Syncuse ; when, for the veri-
fication of the whole of the dream, it was in-
terpreted, that the soul, on parting from tl1e
body, must be lWdei·stood to return to its na-
tive place •.
Plato represents Socrates as saying, w~o
in public custody, to Crito his friend, that he
expected death on the third day; for that hehad
eeea in a dream a woman of remarkable figure
and beauty in a white vesture, who ·addressed
him in a \'erse of Homer t. prophetic of hia
death, at that period.
Cyrus was a ch8111:cter too distinguished to
• Fulgoa. Ez. Lib. i. C. /S. p.18t,
t B. iL L3()3,
75
i'lllllppear from the world without aome Omell
to intimate his dPcease. Xenophon repreaentl
him, after having performed aome religiout
o'Bices, and distributed dooatiolis with his ac-
customed liberality to his 110bjects, to have
dreamed, on retiring to sleep in his palacet
that. a person "'ith a fonn more august than
human appeared to him, and thus addressed
him : " Prepare thyself, Cyrus, for thou art
about to go to the gods." In the full persuasion
that the dream was a divine warning, Cyru1
is farther stated to have performed sacrifice~
to Jupiter and the Sun, and other gods, on the
top of the mountains, as \\·as the Persian cus-
tom ; to have offered up thanks for the distin-
~ished blessings which he had experienced,
without being elated above the reme_mbrance
of.the dependent condition of his nature j and
~ have supplicated an auspicious terminatioa
of his illustrious life, and blessings on his fa~
mily, friends, and country. Three days after
which, having delivered an impressive speech
..to his children, and the ehief magistrates of
B42
76·
Persia, he expired •. This may be co~sidered.
as one of those fictitious accounta with which
historians are accustomed to. embellish their
works. The futility of ~hese accounts is il-
lustrated often by the circumstances and con-:
~requences which are described. Alexander,
for instance, is said to have dreamed, that the
hand of Cassander should be fatal to him. To
wpat purpose could the intimation be given ?.
It \\:&8 not a punishment, for it afforded occa-
sion ~~ly for a dispiay of a generous disregard .
of the dream : it was not a salutary warning, ·
f~r it excited no respect, and warded off' no
injury; and we may presume, that if a superior
being had judged right to interfere far these-
cm·ity of the conqueror, he would have con- .
veyed information that would have challenged
attention t·
Equally fruitless wa8 the intim~~:tion reported
• IIist. L viii.
t Valerius Ma~us,_ L.i. C.7.
77
to have been given to Aterius Rufus, a RooiaA
knight, who, agreeably to a dream, was acei·
dentally wounded at the Theatre by tlie trident
of one of the Retiarii, who had compelled
his adversary to the place where Aterius Rufua
at as a spectator •.
Valerius Muimus informs us,that Calphur-
oia, the neglected wife of Julius' C~Esar~
dreamed, on the night preceding the assassin-.
tion of her husband, that she saw liim lying
in her bosom dead and covered with wound11 :
that in consequence she and others bad inces-
santly entreated him to stay away the next day
&om the senate ; but that be, unwilling to ap-
pear iidlueuced by a woman's dream, or per-
haps c'orifidilig in the fidelity of th~ public,
went to the senate, and. was murd~ed by
Brutus and his usociates. The flattery of
Valerius represents this as an intimation from
the gods of the approaching admission of
• Valerius Maxim. L i; C. 7•
• 3
....
78
mature virtue into heaven ; but we see nothin'
in the revelation of impending murder, th&t
could convey grateful tidi~gs to its obje<-t, and
can consider it only as one of the many pro.-
digies fabricated with lavish credulity on the.
death of the illustrious m~.
There was not any greater use. in the dreaqJ
of the emperor Mauritius, who is said to have
foreseen that he and his whole family should be
killed by Phocas. The emperor, if he believed
the dream to have been di,·inely suggested, was
cens~rable for neglecting his danger, merelJ
in consideration of the low conditioD of Pho-
cas, who was a notary in his aJmy, as the gods
might be religiously believt:d to perform great
actions by fe~ble instruments ; but we know
not on what ground he could be expected to
regard the dream at all~ though it is related,
that he and his whole progeny were put to
death agreeably to it by the command of
Phocas•.
• ·Folgot, L i. C. 5. p. 114.
•
79
'.l1.e fate of Caiua Gnccb~s is said to Jaa,·e
IN:eo denounced to him by his brother, who
in a dream informed him, that be could not
possibly escape the fate which bad overwhelmed
himself when driven from the Capitol •.
Who however does not ~ee, that it might
ll!llUnlly happen, that Caius, COIJicious of the
same guilty ambition with his brother, should
be terrified with the forebodinp of a mind
appreheodiog the IllUDe fate ?
So CaracUJa,who was ....inated, is related
to have dreamed, that his father threatened to
kill him, • be had before slain his brothert.
SyUa., in hie retirement at Cunue, imagined
in a dream, that he was summoned by Fate.
In the appreheasion of the accompliahment of
his dream, he apprized his friends of his ap-
proachiog death ; and having made his testa-
• Valerius Maxim.
t Dioo. Cus. L vii.
E 4
•
..
...
80
ment he wu seized with a rever, and expired
on the night which BUcceedecl bia dream •.
Glaphyra, the wife of Arcbelaus before mea-
tioned, woo- had beeo married to Ale:underJJ
his 'brother, and afterwards to Juba, king of
Lybia, and who, on the divorce of Mariamne,
bad been uoited to Archelaus, dreamed that
Alexander her first hasbaad, by whom she hacl
c:hildreu, stood by her ·bedside, and said to
her, " Glaphyra,. thou hast emioeatly ...
firmed the truth of that observation, that wives
:ue .generally unfaithful to their husbauds ; for
.:whereas thou wert married to me in thy :vil'-
ginity, and also but children. by me,-thou dicb&
yet make trial of a second match ; and, not
content with· inflicting that injary upon me_.
h.ast taken to thy .bed a third ·husband, and
he my brother ; but I will free thee from
this reproach, and before long challenge thee
for my own." Glaphyra, being troubled witb
81
die dream, .the elrect of an awakened con-
science, told it to the ladies of her acquaint-
ance, and not long after expired, the victim
probably of guilty fears. Josephus consid'en
this dream as a certain argument of the im-
mortality of the soul, and of Divine provi-
dence.
Vespasian, it is related, fancied in his sleep
that he beheld a balance suspended in the im-
perial palace, in one scale of which were
Claudius and Nero, and in the other the em-
peror and his sons; by which was understood
to be intimated an equal allotment of period
to the reigns of each party.
Bot images in aleep deeei-re tbe mind,
Whea frieads removed by death we 1!<81'm to .&nd•.
The emperor Marcion is said to have
dreamed, that he saw the bow of.Attila, king
of the Huns, broken ; and soon after to have
• Lucret. L v. 1. M, 65,
• 5
--
81
beard, that this scourge of the empire died oa
the night on which the dream occurred.
Upon the whole it appears evident, that the
dream1.1 here referred to are not suffi.cientl)'
credible~ importa~t~ and well authenticated, to.
demonstrate the reality of preternatural com-
~icatio..,.
8S
CH.APrER VII.
Wlat I haft deleribed should be COIIIiclered rather •
the ·mea- of r:ru;y peliOill. than • the judgmentl of
philCIIOphen-Ciccn de Na~Kr. Dear. L. i. L:p.uijerr,ft.
UPON a collective retrospect of the ac:couhta
considered in the preeeding chapters, it doea
not appear, that there ia suftieient reason to
mppoee, that there was any preternatural in-
ted"ereoce displayed in the communieation o£
the dreams referred to, or that the minds of
the persoDB con~ed were endowed with pro-
phetic powers. The author hu selected
those which have the higbt:Bt claim to regard,
&om their chancter, ~d the authorityon whicl. .
they are delivered; and after such an eumi-
oatioo hu but little ~eeitation in rejecting the
pre3WOOB of pagan antiquity to the illumina-
tion of prophetM: dreams.
KG
It is probable, that the philosophers of
antiquity, who had no revelation to. enlighten
them, and who perceived the influence of
those fears which :result from a belief in the
existence of a Supreme Power, and of the
Divine superintendence and government of die-
world, were well inc:lined to encourage the
popular notions which naturally prevailed ori
the subject ; and notwithstanding aecounts of
inspired dreams were industriously collected.
we 'find that very few of those which are trans-
Jbltted to U& with· the most imposing reputa..
tioo will bear a striCt scrutiny. Some· are·
evidently tlte co•trivance· of· political'or super-
ltitious interests; many must be censidered-u
fabulous tales of· classical embellishment, and'
others, if received as real and unexaggerated;
are resolvable into natural explieations, or
casual coincidences.
If any preternatural ·interposition be U..
lltittecf;: it·must be that ·of·evil spirits. The-
false dreaMB· fabricated in support of rellgiou:
inventions, only serve·to argoetbe uistience-of
85
tme· visions, fomi!hect with· extraordinary im-
prell&ioa in. ~ftnce of religion : they are.co-
Vied from origiaals which desene attention ;
bot it is presumed that it may be maintained,
that 'Ctivi.Ae dreama were· never imparted to thet
nations of antiquity, excepting in connectii>no
with -the scheJne of God1s immediate and
ostensible interference, as described in the sa..,
cred history of the ~liest ages, and of the
rise and·progress of the Hebrew and Christian
dispensations. They· do not· seetn to- hare
been furnished to pagatt natiODS; unless where·
their interestS were implicated· "'ith"those of!
the Jews, hut were· reserved, tdgether with•
other tokens of lliiracnloM' inteifE!rence, in
evidence·of re.~ftled religion. '
• The knowledge of the existence of su.ch
Jtlodes of comtn~atioft' · n'right ba~e · beeo
conveyed to heathen· nations on the scattered1
leaves of• traditiM, and(hiAte gitvea rise to the-'
fiatitious ·rep<M"t'S tlillt prevailelf of their con-•
tinuance..D.-tbe-ordi.o;u:y.coru:ems of the wodd.
86.
The desire of discovering future events is .
natural to the humau miod, which is hurried
on by a kind of divine impulse to futurity ;
artifice is ever ready to avail itself of thia cu-
riosity, and waa especially so inclined among
the heathen nations, whose bewildered miods.
turned with eageroesa to every gleam of reve.
Jation.
The idea of divine dreams was traced up by
them to the highest autiquity, and sometimes
with iodicatioo of the veatigea of truth. Pliny
represents Amphyction, the son of Deucalion1 •
to have first displayed skill in the interpretation
of them, while Trogua Pompeiua ascribes the.
honour to Joseph, the eon of JacoJJ, and Philo
J uc:beus to Abraham.
The exposition of dreams waa reduced to
scientific principles, aad practiseel by men
"Who engaged in it aa a profession. Some writers
distinguish between ~' dreamers of dreams • ,"
·~.
87
. and " expoaiWra of dreams • t one of &he
latter d.cription appears to have been deified
for his skill; and. many of them ftourished with
high reputation in early daya near the Beri&-
tlaenes, the Gades~ and in Sicily.
The eatern nations~ who might have beheld
the very stones whicL. served as pillows to those
who were hleuedwith divine visiouat~regmled
dreams with punctilious veneration ; and much
of the reputed wisdom of their sages was
shewn in the interpretation of \hem t.
The· Greeb .and the RomaDS \Vere also-
eoasiderably iQftuenced by dreams, and often
• acted in affairs of consequence on their sug.
ltestion. We find in Homer the idea that
" Dreama descend from Jove f."
• On.,.,''"'· t Gen. nviii. 11.
*Dan. ii. !, 8.
§ l'ope'• Homer, B. i. I. 86, md aote.
...
SB
and see Nestor, the oracle ·of Wisdom, elt•
horting the Grecians in council to attend· to
the dream of AgameiRtlon, which· had enjoined
a· battle •. In succeeding times almost every
sect, excepting that of Epicurus, admitted tbeit
claim to reverence, and the valgar regarded
them with the most implicit credulity.· -
· Plutarch informs us, that in consequence of'
a dream of Arimnestus (who was general of
the Plaueans,. when the Grecians were con.:
federated. against the PersillDS), in which· Ju.o
. piter Soter informed him, that the country
round Plata>a was the district pointed.out by
the ' oracle at. Delphi as the· scene of victory,
the· Plaaeans altered the boundaries which
separated their country from Greece, in order
to enlarge the territories of Attica, that . the
Athenians might, according to the direction of
the oracle, give the enemy battle within their
own d~minions t-.
• ·Diad. -B: t.
t Plutarch. iD_Aristidis.
19
The •perstitious reprd paid k> dreams by
the Grecian~ in general WM carried to a great
extent. When P~idaa W88 encamped with
·his army. on the plains of Leuctra, he dreamed,
before his engagement with the Lacedaemo-
nians, that he beheld the daughters of Sce-
dasus, who were called the Leuctrides, weeping
at their tombs,and loadingthe Spartans with ex-
ecratictns, becatue some of that nation; having
despoiled them of their virginhonour,IWldriven
them to suicide ; and at the same time tlaeir
father Scedasui commanded him to sacrifice a
young red-haired virgin to ltis daughters, i( ho
desired to obtain the victory. As many of tll.!l
soothsayers and commanden recommended a
literal eomplianc~ with the dream) it .would
probably have been productive of a sanguinUJ
oblation, bad not a diviner of th~ tlllllle ·or
Theocritus happily propoaed the sacrifice of a
wild filly with a red mane, which casaallybroke
into the camp1 or was designedly introduced_,.
ancl which he rej,resented as the victim which.
the gods had provided and required *. .
• Plutarch. ia Pelopid.
90
Euripides represents Hecuba to have Lad
a dream before the sacrifice of PoJyxena had
been required to appease the shade ofAcbiUea.
She thus describea il:
With bloody fangs I saw a wolf, who slell'
A dappled hind, wliich forcibly he tore
From these relnctant arms ; and what iuc:reaaed my feau
Wu.that Achillea' apectre stalked
Upon the summit of hill tomb, u11l cJaimetl a Fl•
Some !Dilerable Trojul captive •.
Popular opinions varied mucb as to tfte
origin and nature of dreaDlll : the Peripatetics
represented ·them to arise from a presaging
6cu1ty of the mind, which, u an oracular
power excited by a divine fury, or released and
liberated from the body in lleep, perceived
future events. Other sects imagined, that
dreams, as well as oracular suggestions in
general, proceeded from demons, of which,
npon the idea of Thales the Milesian, adopted
by Plato, the world was fuU, and which, ac:.:
· • Euripides' llecubao Woodhull'•Trualat.
91
~ording to the Platonic fancies, IUStained -a
middle character between gods and men ; and
some of them were supposed to be the shade.f
of departed heroes, and distributed into bene-
volent and malignant beiugs; the former ap-
pointed to watch over the welfare ofindividuals,
and the latter permitted to molest and to delude
them by fallacious and deceptive vision• like
that before mentioned, which Homer representr
to have seduced Agamemnon to lead out the
Grecian troops in the vain hope of the iJD...
mediate destruction of Troy.
Upon such a subject the imagination had no
limits, and the most wild and extravagant
conceits that could be imagined were often
receiv~ with wonderful credulity. The whole
of the Pagan mythology, composed of the
contexture of oriental and Grecian fictions,
was embellished, if not fabricated by poetical
invention ; and in its translation from Gr~im
to Roman liternture, was decorated with ad·.
Gitional colouriogs ; ornaments of fanc:y became
Qbjects of religioWJ reverenceJ and poetq
..
92
enlarged the structure of superstition. Thu&
what was concerted in figurative allusion, was
!Bisinterpreted to imply real existence, and the
Pantheon, or Pandemonium of Antiquity, waa
peopled with a
" Thousand demigods on golden seat!,
Frequent and full."
The heathens wor.shipped Sleep under dif-
ferent images of a god, or goddess. The rite.s
. observed towards them originated, probably,
in that early respect which wa!l paid to dreams.
The bold imagination of Homer couceived.
that in;apending circumstances were to be found
mdreams, ~d that
Immured within the silent bower or Sleep,
Two portaU firm the various phanto011 keep,
· Cl iv'ry one; whence flit to mock the brain;
Of wioged lies. a light Cantutie train : .
The gate opposed pellucid v!Uves adom,
And cohunns fair incas'd with polish;ci hom~
Where images of truth for passage wait,
With visions manifest of future fate *.
• Dacier from Eustathius supposes, that by hom, which
II transparent, Homer means the ait or heavens, which ar~
Virgil adopted the idea.
Two gates the ailent bouse of Sleep adorn,
Of polished iv'ry this, that of transparent hom:
True viaions through transparent hom arise,
Through polish'd iv'ry pass deluding lies •.
translucent; and that by ivory he denotes the earth. which
is I!EOIS and opaque. Thus the dreams which come from the
earth, that is through the gate of ivory, are false : those
from heaven, ·or through the gate of hom, true. Pope
imagines that this fable was bllilt upon a real foundation,
that therll were places called the gates of Falsehood and
Truth at Memphis, in Egypt, from whence Homer draws
some of his allnsions.--See note on Pope's Odyss. B. 19.
The author of the Archmolol!ie Atticm conceives that tho
tato of hom was suggested by the horns of the ram which
was eacriooed to Amphiarans and Chaleas, Blld Podaliris,
after which the votariea slept on the melotie, or lleec~~~~o
L vii. C. 8. and Strabo, L. vi.. The Scholiast on Homer
represents the horn to be a fit emblem of troth, as being
transparent when thinned ; the ivory a proper figure or
falsehood, as opaque. Some by .,~ 11nderstand .the eye,
the cornea tunica; and by •A&t&c the mouth and teeth,
tbt which is seen appearing to be more certain than thaa .
which i• spoken.
• .B..~ .Drydell'.a.Tranalat.
Pbilostratus tells us, that in allusion to these
doors it was customary to represent in picturet
a dream personified in a white garmeQt upon a
black one with an hom in his hand.
The fictions of poetry "'ere, however, end·
less, and varied with much luxuriance of fancy.
Virgil elsewhere conceived that
Pull in the IDidst oC the inftmal road
An elm dieplay'd her dusky arms abroad,
The god of aleep there hidu his heavy bead,
And •pty dreama on every leaf are epre:ui • •
. The elm was by some supposed u a barrea
.tree, to be expressive of the vuity of dreams.
Servins, on .the . authority of Aristotle, re.
presents them to be especially fallacious on the
fall of the leaf in autumn.
. From the elm, on the leaves of which dreams
were supposed to .be spread, or under 'the
•hadow of which their embodied fonns were
• :B. 6. Dryden"e Tranalat.
~~epresented to sit, Morpbeus, the senant of
Sleep, wu sometimes described as bringing
them to prese~t to the minds of those who
slept, exhibiting, as his name imported, the
forms of_men :
, , .. And n011c thm he more skilful to esprea
.Men's geatures, language, counteuanee, and dress."
Ovid paints Night as a ngure of which the
temples were encircled by poppies! and as
accompanied by a multitude of dreams *.
Tibullus represents ~leep and dreams as attend-
ing the car of Night :
" Now Night leada out her aced~, her car uceoU,
A glittering circle of the stars attends ;
Next Sleep with duMky wings doth silent move,
And sable dreams around uncertain rove."
Sleep, though here described as moving
sl~wly, is elsewhere portrayed \\'ith wings,· as
Statius addresses it :
" Let not thy pinion o'er mine eyes be spread,
But a soft influence from thy rod be shed t·"
• Metamor. Lib. ii. I. S64.
t Statiua Syiv. L v. Consult abo IIIJagia. Deor. P. Ul.
Sleep· 'filii gettentlly.regarded as a- female
fjgUre with bliclc·expanded wings, she was also
sculptured as holding in her left hand a white
<-bild, aad in her ·right band a black child with
distorted feet, the former being the image of
sleep, the latter of death. A very common
notion that prevailed was, that visioQs rose
from the resi:ons below. The queen, according
to the present reading of the Hecuba of
Euripides, thus _addresses the earth:
" Venerable earth
Parent of dreams that flit on raven win& .,,
• Woodhull's Trans.
N.n ,.,.,.,,. xe;,,
Me).a,....,..p.:,.W ,..ii:rrt ~..:,.,,, Hrcub.
.M.r. Ponon, ia his late va~uabJe edition, propqses.to
u.-w, . • "'"""" ruf
. Ml).a,..,.,:,,.:,..., ,_.;.,.,t lnip.,r.
For which, however, there is no. Sllfiicient reaaon. aiiiCe,
the ;x.Bb'~' ~... inye~ked i111me!liatcly after by tl1e distre,sed
mothCl', mig~t be conceived to suggest ill-omened dreams,
"fliicb were commonly supposed to arise fro1n tlae eartla,
and .in a more direct ~RY than the scboliast on Euripiilea
derives them when he says, '" ,..., .,.,., ,...., ., '~'Pttot• •• b .,.,..
..,...;, 01 ~-.. ta b .,.... ~~~ tc .,....,, ~m the eart1a.
cumea meat, from meat sleep, from lleep dreama.
97
As tarioua ,rere the opiniou orthe ancient~~
.:t)ncerning the· residence of the imaginary:
deity of sleep, Homer· places it in Lemnos~ ·
Ovid among the Cimmerians,Statius among the·
lEthiopiaas, Philostnrtus describes it as abiding ·
in the cave of Amphiaraus, where W8IJ the
gate of Sleep, and where day and nigbt were·
represented by a figure in which the white vest ·
was drawn over the black; w~ere _Sleep \\'U
'exhibited in a four wheeled -carrjqe.: it was
with allusion, probably, ~ the four paths of
the watches of the night. ·r
Thenotions concemiog tbe origin and cause·'
of dreams were diverse as the authors who
treated of them, among whom were Aristotle, '
Thelllistius, Artemidorus, Deinocritus, Lucre-
.-tios, and others. Some of tbelle writers sup-
posed them to be formed of spectres,··or ·
images, emitted .from corporeal things, which ·
fiGatiJlJ io the air:. pem1eated, u it were, to :
the· mind ; some fancied them to be divine :.
intimations, and others; with an \lnintelligible ·
jargon, " ethereal ~ssences.''
VOL. J. F
98
. Whatever were the notions u to :1Ae pro-
ductive and efficient cause of dreams, the
apcient11 watc~ for them with conaiderablo
aQXiety, and end~voured by every obaemmce
to procure eucll u might be clear aod distiact.
The •-e, or mo01iug dream, was particularly
reganled lUI signifu;aut ou the idea·qpressed
by Pope:
" What time the mom mysterious visions brings,
While poter allltllbers spread their galden wings.''
upon the conviction mentioned by Pliny, duat
a dream was never true which obtained after
e-'ing and thinking; it 'Was not uausual to fast
a day, and to abstain from wine tbree days,
befOl'e a divine dream was ~ught.
lt was tustomary also for tbQse who wished
to obtain inspired dreams, to lie down after
the performaJlCe of religious rites upon tbe
skiHs of beuts sacrifia:d, in ex;pectatioh of
the divine suggestiolls, as was the case at the
teu\pilell of Amphiarat~s in Attica, lEsculapius
in }lergamos, of Serapis ia Canopns, ·aud'
others; as also at that of Faunus, of which
we learn from Vi!!;il that the shades were·
" rcnown'd for prophecy,
Which'near Albunea's sulph'rous foontaia lie.
'l'o these the Latian, and the Sabine baud,
Fly when diatress'd, and thence relief demand.
The priest on skins of offerings takes ~is ease,
And nichtly ,.isions in his slumbers seea;
A swarm of thin etherial shapes appears,
And ilutt'riug round his temples deafs hia eats.
These he consuhs the future fates to know
FrotP power's above, and frem the fiends below."
And here the poet represents Latinus to havl!
repaired for directions to the god concerning
the disposal of his daughter, when solicited in
marriage by lEneas and Turnus. t.
The idea of tlms obtaining revelation was
derived from some acquaintance "ith the
Hebrew modes of procuring communicatiOJrs
from God. Strabo represents the temple of
J erm:tlem as a place where divine dreams
were iu:J>parted, and it is probable that, as
l\lr. Pope obsef\·es, he had receive~ some
F ';!
...
100
information of the visions of the prophets, as
of that which Samuel bad concerning the
destruction of Eli's bouse, or that "·hich.
Solomon obtained after having sacrificed before
the ark. It should be remembered, however,
that Isaiah reprehends as an idolatrous practice;
the custom of sleeping among the graves and
monuments for the sake of dreams •.
Whatever diffe.:ence of sentiment prevailed
as to the origin of dreams, there was a general
concurrence of popular opinion both among
Greeks and Romans, as well as eastern nations,
not ouly that they bore a relation to future
e\'ents, but that where they were inauspicious
in their denunciations the omen might be
averted hy supplications and sacrific~, and the
calamiti~s which they were supposed to portend
· be avoided. Brizo, the goddess of sleep or
dreams, was worshipped with divine honors and
SRcrificea, and her votaries slept in her temple
• Isaiah lxv. 4. in the Septuagint, it is it nlr proipuc
~t&llr Ttir ,~ •'¥'.,_., ~- l•~.n...
101
at Delos with their laeads bound wit11 laurel,
or other fatidical appendage!~. The Sun was
·•ddressed with conciliating prayers, as its beams
dispersed the dreams of the night. Supplica-
tions were offered up to. Mercury at the con~
elusion of festivals for a night ofgood dreams,
and images of that deity with his Caduceus
was placed at the feet of beds, hence called
lp~~oim •. Bathing also, and lustrations were
practised as auspicious; and lEschylus, in
Aristophanes, directs the attendants to prepare
a lamp and warm water taken from the river,
which were to be employed in some ceremonies
designed to avert the inftuenc:e ofdivine dreams.
In a fragment of Euripides we see Priam, on
occasion of the dream of Hecuba, in which
she brought forth a ftaming torch :
., Smitten with dread, an•l anxious care to heaveu
Preseat the bleatiutr victi1111, sue for peace,
Awl ask if any prophet havin& prayed
To Phcebus, could inform him what events
SllCh a portentous vision co'!ld produce."
• Archlle!llog. Attica-, a Fra~ia RouP, p. 35!, L. vii. C_"4.
F 3
101
And the royal father is represented to hate
obtained an answer from Apollo forewarning
him of the destruction which ·Paris should
bring on his country • •.
In the·Miles Gloriosllli of Plautus, we find
Pala!strio directing Philocomasium to suppli-
cate the gods, in order to avert the effects of
a dreamt· No.less respect_was paid to dream•
among the Romans than among the Greeks :1:-
SJlla, in his Com~entaries, inscribed to
~ucullus, endeavoured to excite his reverence
for them ; and Propertius, and other poet&,
strengthened the general credulity conceminc
them§.
At length, however, it became a principle
adopted among the Romans upon the multipli-
cation of dreams, that none which related to
• Fragment of Euripid. Wodbull'a Translat.
t Act ii. Sc. 4. See also Act i. Sc. 1.
:t Plutarch's Life of Sylla.
; Life of P11mpey. C.
lOS
the public weal abould b~ regarded, unless they
were seeD by _magilstrates., or at least by more
than one individual. The principle was some-
times deserted, as- it is not easy to limit the
credulity of superstition. Cicerv informs us,
that within the memory of his contempomrie&,
Lucius Julius, who was consul with Publiua
Pompili1111, repaired the temple of JliDO 8os-
pita, in obedi~ to a decree of the aeaate
eoacted from respect .to a dff811l of C.ilia,
the daugbter of Balw:icu•.
Notwithbtaoding the geaeral ~t paid to
dreams amoug the ancieota, it appears &hat
fiOID8 of tile more pbibophicai miMda coa-
aidered tbem as futile aud vain ; aiUI oooceived
tllat diviDe iqspirations were 1110te likely to be
conveyed to- the waking, than to the ~eepiug
thouchu, and that if the 1oda had sent dreams
dley would have eufoKed more respeet to them,
aad have fumiabed s~ UB86JWVGCal nMee of
.interpretation.
• De Divinat. L. i.
F 4
ro-i
Tbeophrutns represents it· to be a part of
the character of a superstitious man to enquire~
·on teeei\ing a dream, to what God he should
perform his vows • ; and Cicero, after elo-
.quently stating each side of the question, rejects
the idea oftheir bemg subservieat to divination.
If the general futility of dreams were not
' sufficiently manifest from their O\l"ll nature, it
•1''0uld be fuUy exposed by the fanciful and
precarious principles upon which they were
interpreted. Every casual correspondence be-
'tween dreams and events was ·noted, and COD-
•atrued into a precedent for fa.ture ellplieatiOJt;
• sometimes they were explained by contraries,
·ami sometimes they were literally expounded.
·It appeus from a passage in Plutarch's Life
of Aristides> that certain tables were used fos
the interpretation of dreams ; as he speab of
one Lysimachus, a grantfsoa ofAristides, who ·
sittiag near the temple ef Bacchus gained his
livelihood by it : we ntay form· SGIDe idea o£
• Nat. Hiat. L Yii.
108
the egregious tri8iDg which was she\tn in the
art~ from the rulea of interpre~tion attn"butecl
to Artemidorus~ if geouine~ who lived in the
reign of Antoninus Pius~ and which are.trans:
mitted to us as the result of deep observation
· and experience*. The whole myatery of'his
.art, if we may j~ &om tboae~ cooaists ih
;the co~uaioo drawn from some ordinary ~
. currences of events~ and &om the application
.of things reputed significant, by w~ich cir-
cumstanees were represented as auspicious, qr
ill-omeoed~ respectively as the dreams were
.composed of things superstitiouSly so regarded
. -thus for iostlnce in this childish theory, to
dream of a fair tnd great nose intimates subtlety
-of rosemary and aage~ trouble and weakneas
-of a midwife, diaclosure of secrets-of a
_leopard, an artful man. It may be easily con-
_. • Polydore Virgil. de ln-.ent. Renam. L. i. C. !+.
Cum Somnium quod ominosum videretnr, nl ipsi vel alii
.habuiueDt, ICribeb.Ot, et oba"antes quomodo eveuiret, rt
li llQando poatmodum huj111 eimile· obtigisset, ezemplo .
prioris pntabant e-ieaturu... See alao Fabrieii Biblio"-
Graec. L. iv. C. 13. ·
1' ~
I
tOG
ceived, that an art so vague l\'88' often kcom;.
modated to the inclination and feelinga of those
•hom it waa the iaterebt o( iMeFpntters ·to
gratify.
The mother of Dionysius, the tYrant of
Syracuse, dreamed that she broaght terth· a
satyr; and the Sicilian interpPeters, called
Galeot~e *, expleiaed the dream to impol't,
that her son shQUld be tlre 1008t illustriotts aad
prosperous among the Greekst.
Hippias, the leader of the barbavittns to the
. plains of Marathon, fancied in a viHion that he
slept with his m<MileF ; and the p6pular eon-
str~.K:tioo led him to expect a return -to pro•
spenty, aDd a petMleful death at Athens:j:. A
similu dream. is attri~Mtted oo the emperor
Claudius.
e. it ~ muarkable II¥ tM word. OaleotE, • GUti, is
. Geri.ved f~ the Hobtew rtlll~l'b!ll.wbiaill!ipiitsiiiJ.Jeve&L
t He~.l4 in Spbia. e. 31• P. US.
t lictod. T,. v. C. 5&•.
107
Philip of Muedon dreamed ltlattlie plaeed
• .--.,.allis wife·; he espeua*d his:dream
to signify, that his wife should be barren, hilt
Aristonidft!t a.IQOlbsayu,. intecpeted ii ._it
imported the pregnancy -of ln. wife, inasmuch
as empty vessels 8re not sealed.
Domitian dreamed a few days before his
death that a golden head rose upon the nape of .
his neck, which was applied to prefigure the
BOlden age which followed in the reigns of hia
five successors•.
As to Cesar's dream (says Bacon, the pro-
found writer from whom I have bc>rrowed the
.two preceding articles,) I think it was a jest, it·
was that he was devoured of a long dragon,
and it was expounded of a maker of sausages
that troubled him exceedingly t. We shall
(!Onclude with the just remBI'k of this great
man, that the more it appears that divination
• Bacon's Works, voL iv. p. 5.
f Bacon, vul. iii. p. 854-
F ~
·lOS
has been polluted by vanity and superstition,.
, the more we should ·receive and preserve its
. pure p~...
It BacOn, vol. ii. p. 5t.
. '
,,
109
CHAPTER VIII.
e:r IlUPIB.BB DB.B.&HS WBICB WBB.B B.Bif..
:DBB.ED SVBSIIB.VU:NT~ T~,.DI.VIll:ll _RBV:£..
LA.TIOK1 .AND COJI'J'JUB11TID TO.TH E .;EST»
JILlSUKEXT .AND SVPPOilT 01' THE BE-
DREW DUl'ENSA.TION.
And the Lord came.down· in the' piDar or the cloud, and
stood in the door of tire Tabernacle and called Aaron ami
Miriam; and they both came furth, utd:hti aaid, Hear now
my words: if there be a prophet among you, I the Lord
wilt make myself. known. unto him in a visian, and will
i!peak u~ him in a dteam.-Numbn-s, :rii. 5..6.
TH A:T dreams were employed by God for tile
oonveyaoce of his instructions to mankind from
the earliest ages is indisputable,.ud though we
.are inclined to reject those dreams which a~c
related in profane history, as not the re11ult of
.pretesnatural suggestion, it i8. ce~in that tbe
110
distinctions laid down by Macrobiu'S had a
foWldation in reality. It appears also, that
however we may deny that God imparted his
immediate sugpstious to thoee who were not
subjected to his especial direction, or had a
c:oDDection witlt the Pt aebeme of rev•
tion; yet we mays still admit duat the Grecian
and Romaa pe1'8Uasions of the eaistenee of
inspired dreams were ·wen founded, though
formed only on a traditional knowledge o(those
modes which were occasionallyadopted by God
for the ·commllllication of the particulars that
illustrated ltis daiglra.
The visionswhichwere impartedto Abraham
and others •, in which the word of the Lord
is represented to baYe addressed them, and
they themselves to have spoken; and which
aee• to llave happeaed as well duriag the day
• a8B " the SUD wu gone duwa, pd a deep
sleep feD" ~ .the favoured persoO:t.. may be
• Gen. xv. xx. ~7. xxvi. 24.
t ·Om. xv. :d. :ti-~. Numb. :niv: 4-16. See abo
Acta xxii. 2--17. 1 Kiup iii. 5, Jub xuiii. 14-16.
llt
elassed •• the third-dietrit.utioa- of Macro-
bios, which represeated oranlu CODIIIl...._
tions to obtain, when in sleep, some venerable
or aaued .peJ8Dil. or. deitJ,.~IIelaecl. future .
•events, or gave directions .. te natahcald be
done or avoided. The figurative and mysterious
visioa whicb repre~e~~tad the .majesty el God
ascendant abot.·e ainilaering angels, aDd p-o-
nOtQM:igg ·t& Ja_,.·tl.e increase and dilpersiob
of his seed, and the blessings to be derived
througl. his race to DJUkind, _, be ranged
u~ the same division •, u 1Da1 also the
grand religious expostulation thus finely d~
I!Cribed b)l Elipllaz .ia the.booi: of Joh.
•11 Now a thing was secretly brought to me1
and mille ear received. a·little thereof.
" In tbeughas:froftl the visioaa of tlte nigk,
then deep sleep falleth on men.
• G•n.xniii. xni.lt-18. !4.
112
rr Fear came opon me and trembling, wliitb
made .U my bones to shake.
" Then a spirit paBBed lJefore my face ; the
hair of my ftesh stood. •
· '' It stood still,: but lcould:not discern die
.form thereof: ail· image. ·'W8B. before my eyea,
, .there ~u ailenee,·.and·l•heard·a voice, saying,
" Shall mortal man be morejll8t than God?
Shall a man be m~ pure than hill Maker?
,. Bebnld~ he putteth uo trust in hi6
.ervantll ; and hill angela he cbargeth with foll,.
" How much less in them that dwell in
hoUBeS of clay, whoae foundation ia in the dlll!t,.
which are crushed before the II10tb i"
" They are deatroyed from morning to
evening : they periah for ever without any ~­
prding it. :
'c Doth not tLeir excellency which is in
them go away ~ They die even without wis-
dom *!"
The dreams furnished by divine ravour to
Joseph, in which the sheaves and' stars per·
formed an obeyaance expreuive of thereverence
that was to be paid to his elevation t, as well
as those which were furnished to the officers of
Pharoah:J:, and to the king himself§, may be
placed under the.first distinction of Macrobius~
that of dreams~ properly so called, which wete
described to be mysterioUs_ representations re·
quiring expositions~ arld ·aabservient _to divina-
.tion; and under this class may justly be ar·
ranged also the mysterious and enigmatical
miooe of Daniel, Ezekiel, St. Jolin, and·other
prophets.
• Job iv. 1!, &c.
t Gen. xxxvii. 6. 7. 9, comp. with Gen. xlii. 6. xllii..
!6. ts. xliv. 14. I. 8. ·
f Gen. xl. 5.
~ Gen. xn. 1-5.
-
114
The dream indeed_whicb was especially so
denominated, was in its original import deemed
to be pr~phetical of real circumstances, as the
very derivation of the word intimates importing
to speak truth • ; but .so many fictions were
invented even among the Jews during the time
of the prophets, that dreams became pre-
verbially represented as truth mingled with
falsehood, as wheat mixed with straw t•
The term vision, which Macrobius c~nsiders
as a prophetic representation of events· exactly
foreseen, is employed by the sacred writers as
generally expressive of revelation however
imparted. " In a dream;' says Elihu, " in ~
vision of the night, when. deep .sleep falleth
upon men in slumberings upon the-bed :t;, then
• On.,.c, fro~ or, truth, and "r'"• to speak.
t Jcrem. xxii. 3!. xxiii. !8. Sicut impossibile cat ut sit
Triticum sine Palea, ita fieri non potest ut sit BOmnium
absque verbis falsi1. Porta Mosis,·P. !3.
t Job xxxiii. 15. 17. In the Septu&.&int it is ar fo'WTII
ftiAT.,_ Psal.lnxix. 19. 1 Kings iii. 5. 13.
11~
be openetb.the ~ of mea~· aud .aealeth their
iostruction.~ Specific ioatauces· which may
suit the eud de6aition of the Utiu writer,
are fumiahed ia the acc:oQDt of the vilion in
which God CQpmumic:ated to Abraham -
sojourning of his multiplied descendants four
hundred years in Egyp~·their c:olliiog out, and
his own -death in. a peaceful okl.age•; or in
that in which a c:oWIOiatory auurauce was im-
parted to ~ tb.at be should go iDt.o Egypt~
_and·that his IOU Joaeph should cloae his eyest;
or if we restrict the term to the revelatiou
COIIUDUilicated·by. day .to the wakimg BtBII88,
we may refer to the ~loua vision imparted
to St. Paul on hisjolU'IIey to·l>amaalus, whea
even the men ·who ac:compuied him saw t~
light and heard>the v~ce, though not the clia-
tinc:t words.., it should &eeqL., which addressed
him.
• Gen. :n. 1S. t6.
t Gen. xlvi. !4. See also 1 Sam. iii. 1 Kings iii. 5.
L11ke i. 8. U. · Ac:ta L 1:1.
J]6
Examples ofthe fourth and fifth desaiptiorr,
a unconnected with any design or pretenc~ of
revelation, must be sought for in the perturbed
slumbers of anxi~ty, or in the reveries of a
confused and dozing imagioation.
There are certaioly dreams mentioned in
Scrip~e of so ambiguous a character, thafit
would be a subject of intricate discussion to
reduce them to any exact distinction : tbia
indeed is not necessary, the communications
afforded to the prophets, and consigned to the
regard of future ages, in· Scripture, whether
·dreams, or visions, or oracles; whether figu-
ratively or literally prophetic, were unquestion-
ably inspired, and subservient to divine revela-
tion, they bad the criterion of truth as tending
to advance the service of the true God, and
the real interests of men, though opposed by
those of false prophets whom God permitted
to prove the Israelites • ; whether by dreams
• Deat.&iii.1-& Zecb..L !. Jerem. uiii. ~~~~
117
preteraatunllyaages11ed,orC180ally predictive,
does not appear; llld who prophesied alao.
falae dreams, c:auaiog the people to err by·
their lies and by their lightllell, not lellt by
God, nor commanded by him•.
Tile fint and immediate predictiooa of the.
true ·prophets were often accomplished during
the lives of thoee to whom they were lumiahed,
and BUch parts were usually so clear, and ac-
companied with BUCh explanatiooa, as enabled
the prophet to underatapd tbem, and to in-
terpret them if fumiahed to uniospired penons,.
while the distant aDuaiooa by which they gilded .
the. remoter scenes of the divine ICheme were
often, perhaps, of questionable character to:
the prophets themaelvu•
.Great eaution was recommended by God to
his people in the examioation of~e pretensions
of the prophets and dreamers who affected
• Isaiahuili. 31.
M8
iiiJiiiralion. The " ........ wbida thou lllaalt
pouetJB,"- the .Aimipty, "~eaed onto
obaeners oftimea:&JMldi.viaen,·but u for thee
the Lord thy God has DOt .sulfered thee to do
so• ;" and when God fe~ .them.agaiost
those who prophesied lies, he established the
tead~ Gi the.iasbaction 11 the.tat of truth.
If we eOIIIilter the ~ aad intention of
the dreaiD8 recorded ia l!atftd bistooj, they
apPem- to us worthy of, and ·OOIII!istent wilb the
declared .tesigu of God, ~onnected with the
plan of his nurat"81ous dispeDIWttion, and t!OD-
stitutiag part of the gnat scheme of prophecy.
Where they were imparted to those not in
immediateiUbjedioD to.tdispeOJ&tion \Vhivb.
was ratified by miraculou testimooi~ they stiU
were appropriated to the signalizing of God's
professed cause auct Benantll, by the.interpreta-
tion of the prophets, 8lld bore ottena refere11ce
to the Messiah.
• Deut. XTiil. U..
119"
"TD .,_. ia the~ m.t.acea of
the ..._.. of Nebu............, the firat of
whid., as a.plaiaed by Daiel, deeeloped the
chMacter of aacc:e.ive kiagdoma which were
to be UrtroduetiYe to the dcvninion of Chrial.•;
and dae aecoDd revealed .a aipal decree of a
c:OITectiVe.J-IRmeot.agaiostaotmrighte<HD aod
inaated prince, which none but a prophet,
emboldened by a inspired eotdidence, would
have veDtured to iaterpret and apply t: Clll
• odler oc:casioaa the dralma imparted to the
individual bore a refereace io natiaaal dis).,...
tion. God on tbOae occ:uioDB condeecended
to employ true visions to the disc:o•teuanciog
of those who trusted in false dreams, as in
Egypt be ·permiued M01e1 to defeat the
El)'ptiao"magiciua by their OWD arts.
There are some accouatll in Scripture which
have been considered as desCriptive of visionary
representations, but which should perhaps
• Dan. ii. f. t JlaR, jy,
J'iO
nlher be. understood as narrative of acturll
even18, such are some of those. which relate to
the appearance of superior beings, as where
angels are recorded· to have visited or ell• ,
countered favoured persoDS for encouragement
or trial, as in soaie of the appeannees vouch- .
safed to Abiaham .and· Lot 110d others •, and
~yin·the instance of God's host which
~ Jacob, or ia that of the man wrestling
with· him ; ia which accounts there is no in-
timation that the scene was not real, and ill ·
the lat~r instance the proofs of a ·real agencj
were sensibly demonstrated in the disjointiag .
of Jacob's thigh t·
Some Jewish writers, indeed, who restrict
the modes.ofdivine communication with design .
to elevate the pretensions of. Moses to an ex-
clusive height, consider all communications
whic:h were ·DOt •imparted to their great Law- ·
• -{leu. xvii. 21•. xvi. 19. X¥iii.IL JOIIbua v. 13-15.
Jud. vi. xiii. Job uniii.
t Gen. uxij. See alto iii. 8. xix. S. Ac:tsxii. 9.
12f
giver as referring to representations in dreabd,
or visions *; though the Scripturea in oo place
will authorize such restrictions, and 'in many
instances afford us proof to. the contrary t.
There are some accounts also of dreams
represented to have contributed to establish.
the &me of the Hebrew dispensations, whicli
are not reconred by sacred writers, and which
may be received, or rtdected, without affecting
the theory ~ich we suppott. Such; for in-
&ta;nce, is the dream related by Josep~ to
have occurred to Alexander at Dio, in Mace--
donia, in wbich a figure habited like the high
priest of the Jews, encouraged him to p~ceed
in his Persian expedition with assurance of
sttccess ; in consequence of which, on meeting .
the high ·priest Jaddua on his. approach with
hostile intentions to Jerusalem, he adored the
name of Jehovah inscribed on the sacred mitre,
• N~UJ~ben :sii. 6. I Sam. vii, +-17. Mllimoa. )(Qre
Nevocb. P. 1. C. 41. ·
t I Sam. uv!B- 6. 15.
VOL. I. G
_declaring the dream which be had beheld, and
not o~Jy pardoned the Jews for having with-
holden the assistance which be bad requested
at the siege of Tyre, but granted great privi-
leges· to them •.
TI1is, might have been a fiction of Hebrew
vanity, or an artful stratagem of Alexander,
wbo..must hav.e hea~d of th~· wonderful ~~b
·of divine interference manifested towards the
. .~ ' .. . . ,. ' .' . . . ~
Jews, t!-od have been ~io~ t~ anm..~,b~
wldiers with a religi~ confi.c:fence. ., .
The remembrance. of the inspired dreams
which· had .conveyed divine instruction to their
forefathers, leg tbe Jews t~ en~rta.in ~ super.:
stitious reverence. for dreams long 11fter mira-
culous modes of revelation hac:l ceased among
them. Whoever had a drea~ which seemed
to portend calamities, and aftlicted his ·mind,
imp<)sed a fast on himself _on the folio\'I iug
• Joseph. Antiq. L. xi. C. 8.
~; 'even tbotJgh it were the Sabbath, oa
w~ich day futing was not permitted·for 8IIJ
other cause. ID the evening, before the takmc
of any food, ·ifter the period of fastia& wu.
expired, it .was cuatomary among them, for
the pemon. fn whom the dream 'Wa8 imparted,
to as.semble three friends, to whORl lae said,
c' I have .bad a good dream,• repeatiag dais
1mm times, they u oftea IUIIWering,. ~ Thou
hast bad a good dream, it is well, be·it good.
Let it become good, may the merciful God,
JDake it good, that it may be good awl become
good ;" adding afterwards, for an auspicious
omen, from the twelfth verse of the thirtietb
Psalm, " To the end that my glory may siog
praise to thee, and not be silent. 0 Lord,
my God,I will give thanks unto thee for ever :"
and from the thirtieth v~rse of the thirty-first
chapter of Jeremiab, " Then sh(l}l the virgin
rejoice in the dance, both young men and old
together, for ·I will turn their mourning ~to
joy, and will comfort them, and make them
.rejoice from their aorrow ;" and concluding
with the seventh verse of the Book of Eccle-
G 2
--
/
124
,aiaatt!l, ~~'·.Go. thy way; eat thy bread with·jOy,
·~IKl dJink thy WUle· with .a merry· heart, for
.Ood now accepteth thy works.". This they
~call the benefactioll of adream.
-~ If they ll.a a drea• of ambiguoua character,
.110 that tbey could· not determine whether it
;were good or bad, theY' hac1 a peculiar form of
.prayer in which they prayed God .to turn it to
their good ; these forma are in their Books of
:Prayer•.
*Buxtim'. Synaso;a 1udliica. C. 13.
125
CHAPTER. IX.
ON lKB'PlRJI.D DR'£AMS WHICH CONTRJJIU'u:n
TO THB CbNFIR.M..t.TIOH AND .ADVANCE•
lii:&NT 01' TJJE GOSPEL.
It eaJUIOt be tbat when 11110h providence appean in lCAt"r
CODcerlll, it ahonld be foUDd waatillg in tboae of chief
c:onsideretion, but the prophecies and clllea of Qiaeues
which have beeu manifested in the ,"orld proceed from ille
good providence of God.-&UUit. Phi/Daopla. de Diil' et
Jllllldo, abra'"' h, &c. p. 70. ·
As it appears to have been designed that tile.'
second dispensation should not be defective as ·
to any proofs which might demonstrate ·its
divine authority, inspired dreams, such as those
which had been imparted in preceding com-
munications of God's will; were furoilhed in
testimony of the Gospel, and are d~ as
the effect of the operation of the Spirit. The
G 3
.J
gracious scheme was introduced iudeed by
divine dreams, which afforded an assurance of
the miraculous conception of our Lord•, and
the birth of his (orermmer't,· and it was after-
wards supported by a frequent display of God's
interference manifested in vision·t.
These were. consistent with the intimations
of prophecy : Joel speaking of the times of
the Gospel, had thas predicted in God's name,
'' Behold it shaD come to pass afte..ward, tlaat·
I 'will pour out my Spirit upon all flesh, and
your sons and your daughters shall prophesy,
your old men shall dream dreams, and your
young men shall see vieiona, and also upon the
servants and the hand maids, in those days will
I pour· obt mJ· Spirit§ ; and this appears tO
have beeb auftic.ieady fulfilled, as well l)y tbe .
inltnlctiona conveyed in dreams to St. P.,ter,
.. ·• Malt. i; so. t Luke i. H.-tt.
.*.lll'""1f.l.f(:1~•. :q'fi.i; :l9.
_§- J~ ii. Ji, ~: ~P· lfith ~till. 16.11.
r
1~7
St. Paul•, and others, as by the miraculous
descent and influence of the Spirit on the day
of Peateeost'.
It deserves to be remarked, that the dreauul
mentioned in Scripture, which were·subservient
to prophetic ~elation, were·of the mOdt part
composed of objects .previoualy familiar to the
minds.of the favoured person, though so com-
bined as to be representative of future events.
AB in the instance of the vision imparted to
Peter, in which be beheld a vessel descending
unto him, wherein were. all manner of four-
footed beasts of the earth, and wild beasts,
and creeping things, and fowls of the air t.
SO~e, how~er, presented spiritual beings, of
which the human apprehension could have no
experimental knowledge but by divine ~ela­
tion, and some, scenes of unspeakable glory,
which though the mind might be permitted to
• Ada iL 10. ·xi. S. xvi. 10. xriii. 9. t Cur. xii. 1--3.
See abo Matt. xuii. 19.
t Acta L 10--16,
G 4
-
128
amtemplate them ·in miraculous extasy, '"h~tr·
doubttul whether in the body or out of the
body, yet could not be described in human
language, or made iutelligihle to human con-
ceptions in the ordinary state of corporeai
existeDce •.
• ! Cor. xii. 1--4.
..
CHAPTER X.
. . .
OW bB.E~UIS BtTJlSBQUZNT· TO THE BSTAULt11H•
. :MBNT OP CHl\lSTIAlflTY,· WlllCR HA.VI!l- NO
.· TITI.B TO JlB CONSIDERED AI JIIS.Pll\:&D..
_ Meanwhile th~'le prejudices .w)licll Dl.ingle tb_emselna
with true religion lind, as we may say, the means of be•
ciotuing confounded "With it, and or drawing t~ themselves
the respect due only to it. We dare. n~ attack thelllt
from the apprehension of attacking, at the same tima.
aomething sacred.-Cependant. eel Prijv.gi•, cJ-c. Footenill•
mst. de Oracle•. ··, •
.-·
As there were· some original dreams which
~ontributed to tl•e conveyance of divine in-
~truction to mank.ind, .tbe general" riotion or
in1pired dreams wa8 built on experience ;'
though it WaS 'afterwards ~n1arged to compre-
hend many fictitiou~ accountS· fabficated· in •
later times, in imitatiou of tboie.~na whK:h-
were furnished in testimony of truth.
6 5
lSO
It is uncertain at what period preternatural
visions ceased to be afforded: those who con•
sider them as having cuustituted a part of the
evidence of Christianity, will sdppose them to
have ceued with tb~ other documents of ll.
miraculous ceconomy ; and if they survived tb~
apoetolic age, . to have terminated with the
preternatural gifts of the Spirit, which pro-·
bably finished wln~n "the gospel had been prO-
mulgated towards ~e third, or, at farthest, the
fourth ceutury.
Cyprian, who flourished io the ~ird century,
pretended to have had-tiivine visions on extra·
ordinary exigencies ; as in . his Letters to Cap-
~ilius *, ~e professed thereby to have been
instructed to mingle wine with· water at the
eucharist, i~ opposition to. ~ose who had onl.r
water. Tertuilian also speaks of visions im-
Parted to others. . .
4 Epitt. hiii.
lSJ
St. Basil, who lived in the fourth century,
endeavourei W discourage the coo1idf'.nce io
dreaiiiS which prevailed in his time, "h~n pro,-
bably falae pretensions to inspiration were
much multiplied•. " If," says he," the visions
which appear in sleep concur with the precepts
of the Lord, let men be content with .th~
· Scriptures, which require no assistanee from
dreams to produce a just reliance:. for if the
Lord left his peace with us, and gave us a new
commandment, that we should love one ana.
ther, but dreams induce war ud ·dissension,
and extinction· of afrectiou., let not meo furnish
opportunity to the devil of invading their soula
in sleep.;, iJor give more weight to their fancies
in sleep 'than to saving doctrines *." And this
indeed wu. agreeable to the instructions of the
Son of Sirach, which represented ordinary
dreams as calculated: only to u lift up-fools,
since he ·who so regarded them was like him
·that catched at a shadow, or followed after
• Basil, Ep. ccx. vol. iii. edlt. Pat.
G 6
tile wind• :''.at the aiune time th&t he distin-
guished judiciously between those that were
given in suppOrt of revelation, saying, 1' Di-
vinations, and sootbsayings, and dreains, ·are
"lain, and the heart fancietb as a woman's heart
in travail ; and if they are Dot sent from the
Most High in thy visitation, set not thy heart
upon them, for dreams have deceived many,
and they have failed that put their· trust in
them f.
There is a principal Consideration ~hlch
abould incline us to the belief, that ordinary
dreaJDII do not deserve to be respected as ~om­
munications ofpreternatur&l.iostructioate man-
kind, wbich is, that we are not furnished with
aay sure prioclplt-s of confidence, or any·stand-
ing authority of interpretation : many dreams
."are indisputably fallacious as· t~ conjectures of
. . . .
• Ecclos. nxiv. 1, t.
· t Ecclos. xxxiv. 5. 7. Divinatio erroris et "aoguria men-
dada et somnia male fogientiom. nnitas" is the ltroll[t
selldering of the Vulgt~te.
us
future events, and we have no 1DCMie ol d~
crimiuatiog what is to·be reprded as (alae or
tme; it taDnot be Mlppollfid that God lhoalcl
reqtrire us to be ~ by that wbicb ltu
no lllamp of hie IIDCtion, and it 11JU8t be uae-
tess to be furniahed with the prtdiction of
events, which have no relation 110 any adequate
objec:t, no tide to be believed, mel ef which
no prudence can avoid the accempliahment..
.. When dreams were 1mparted under tLe mi-
raculous dispensations of God, those who were
favoured with them knew where to apply for
their construction,and had the criterion whereby
to judge of their'fidelity; they·were Ulught to
address themselves to the proplaets of the Lord_,
or to the high priest ; or to abide by tho8e sa-
cred oracles and general rulea of confidence,
by which dreams and propliets might alike be
tried • •.
• Deot. siii. 3. Jerem. niii. 3,. Bayley's Essay oa
luspirat1on.
· That when iadicatiou of Gqd'a immediate
interference with h•man conemm were man:i..
feated. by;.especn.l OOIIUilunieatioo, mQlly per-
IOQI aboltld eoneeive·themaelves or othe.ra ~
be: oJ:Uecbl of divine favour, and jostnuqenti
of God's views, wu oatJU'IIl. To tbote whQ
were deeply afi'ected by religiOUB impreuions~
~very event w.u a miracle, eYerJdream a divine
vision. ·
It waa natural also, that in times of perse-
cution and peril, the profeuors of Christianity
should often reaign them~ves to sleep wilh
uneuyreflections,which might generate fearful
dreams ; aad it is therefOre not improbable,
that Polycarp, bishop of Smyrna, ~ight dreain
·• few days before his martyrdom, that he saw
.the 'pillow on which he reclined set on fire
ud conawned. to ashes; a dream whieh. he
coood~r~d as prophetic of his fate : uor is it
improbable, upon similar considerati~s, that
Cyprian should have a dream, which seemed
to foreshew t}:le persecution raised by lEmili-
anus, president of Egypt.
135
There are few .dreamw Wbi11h llaw beea
more celebnd:ed than ,a.at of eo-tamiDe, ia
which, according to contemp~ w~ he
was instructed on the night preceding the action
of the Milvian ·bridge; to inscribe.the·i.hieldf or
his soldiers witb the. celestial sign, tile saCred
monogram of the nrune of·Christ; a fot'IB of
prayer beinglikewieecooiimmieatedto Llcinius,
which was repeated by the soldiers before th~
engagement. Gibbon· refers the drea~ to th~
policy and enthusiasm· of the emperor,' consi-
dering it as similar to the pious frau'c!s·of wbieb
Philip and Sertorius had availed themselves•.
Tollius, in his pret'ace to Boileau's Trans-
lation of Longinus, mentions,without referring
to authority, a siriular vision of Antigonus,
who assured his troeps, that he had seen a
painting on a symbol of safety, with these
words, " In this conquer:" but, as Mr. Gib-
. .
• See Gib'boll, cbap. u. Lardner, yol. vii. p.94. ~
Clerc, Bib. Antiq. tom. iii. p. 488. Lactant. De JUOrt.
Persecut. chap. :div. Addison 011 Medalt.
136
bon baa observed, there is ground for doubt,
as it is not mentioned by Diodorus, Plutarch;
Justin, or Polyenus.
· .Fulgosius speaks of a dream of M~us,
1Vbo, being sent by ·the empen>r Hoilorius
against Gildo for the rec:Qvery of .Africa, ima-
pned that he saw ~t. ~rose, bishop of
Milan, then dead; who., striking the ground
thrice with his pastoral staff, thrice e.x.clai~ed.,
~· Here a~~- in this place:" .and accordingly
on the same spot, oo the next day, Masilienus
easily defeated Gildof
Many dreams and visions were .fabricated to
give a colour to the preteJlllic?DB and views of
Mahomet, ud his·superstition. _Cadigha, who
received him into her service, and afterwards
railed bim to a near cQDnection by marriage,
is rep>~d. to have. been prepared for his re- ·
c~ption by a dream, in which she beheld the
common image of future greatness, the sun,
c1escending · from heaven, and entering her
- . .
iS1
house, diffusing 'a splendor by which eyery
boUle in Mecca·was enlightened •.
· Those whp wished to eatabliah ·and snpport
superstition, naturally pretended to the 88lbe
testimonies which they Jaad seen successfully
displayed in the adYBDC811lent of tnle r.eligion.
Hence ·also, in imitation of the divine viaiou
which had contributed to the rise and con-
firmation of Cbri,tiauity, prophetic ecataaies
and divine illuminations werefrequently UFectecl
by those whose enthusiasm_, or artful designs,
iotere~ted them in the progress of error and
•lusion ; and the seeds of tlloee impositioas
were early sown, which afterwards ri~
into monast¥: fraud. ~
When monkish tales multiplied like heatheo:
fablea, St. Bernard's mother dreamed that she
~a little white barkiugdog within ~er,"·bicb,
when she comm~cated to a religioUl person,.
he replied., ~~ Thou ~~~!t ~the ~oth~r of an,
• See L. Addisou'a &rat State cif Mahumedum.
1S8
exc~Ue~ dog indeed·; he ahall be the hopes.&l
God's house,~ shall inC:esaantiy bark against
the adversaries of it, fer be shaD be a famou
p~;and ..wB cure ma.y·by hi& medicinal
tongae • ." : : ·
.. ){_, such like dreams are recorded to have
aipali&ed the .eiU'ly. periods ~· Christianity. .
.Archb'ilbop Laurenee, who built the church of
Our Lady at Canterbury, is aaid, when about
fo !'dire .into _.France, under the discouJ"Bge-
aent Of a •ferseeution1 to have been 'Warned
in .a ..dream, and severely t~eourged by the
apostle ~ Peter:, for wisbin&' to forsake his
4odc.. On the .relation of the ·dream by the
archbishop, and the aicht or his stripes, Ead·
bald was baptized, and became a protector of
&he ChUrc:ht.
Nothing was more common in the super..
atitious ages of the Church, than the contriv-
·• Francii Amboco Vit. llernariT. r.; i. Heid6eld ia
Sphiog. C. S7. p. 89S.
t Holiushed, B. Tiii, C. U.
anee of dreaala C~D~..eted with thd ~tioa
of religious eatabliaJm\enta, the a•innw.at of
~igoitios, and the dilcovery of bodia and re.
1~ ef apoatlea ud martnJ., which might ~
-CjO~e the object. of ~ve"Veneration. 'There
a~~ io·-Pp)piua of the deliguatioo
of a spot at Terracioa fot a coa'eot., of the
promiae of the popedbll) to Eugeaiua·IV. uid
Nicolaus V. and of ·other revelatioolt b.r
dreama, none of which seem to have .beea
of 10 much importance as that made by the
aposlle · St. Atukew to Peter P~ a
simple man, who was iaBtructed by the apostle
to find at Antioch the spear which pierced oar
Saviour's aide; in the COiditience of which
instrument, carried by a bishop, the city,which
,. besieged by· the. Persiaas, ad half &.·
m*-ed, was extricated from distiellll; aad ob-
tained a victory .over Caibao.,· the Persiaa
general.
Monica, the molher of St. Ai&stiu, laeing
distressed with the ~ that her son was a
Manichean, derived c:01110lation from a dream.
.!40
in whiclb she faneied tbl\t she· iltood upon «
woockn rule ; and that_, on being qnestioned
by a young man of glorious appeai'8Dce ooa-
ceming the cause of the sorrow with 'Which·
she was oppressed, she an8wered,·that it was·
for her son, DOW hanglng OD tlte V~ of ae-
struction : upon which she was commanded to
take courage, for that she should see her son·
upon the same rule with herself, as hapPened
by his convention •. ·
Another relation, still more eurioua, is givea
by Fulgosios, who relates_, that Natalia, a mar•
tyr, having fallen into the heresy of Theodo-
tion_, which represented Jesua lll amere nian~
and having beeo, notwithstanding, consecrated
a bishop, was, after many fruitless- admonitions
in sleep, at length severely ·chastised by an
angel ; and by this salutary discipline effectuidly
.converted to the f'atholic faith.
• Fulp.
Ul
Another tale; equally ridiculous, but more
probable, is furnished by the same author, con-
cerning John, an Egyptian monk, who retired
.into solitude with the resolution to shun all
intercourse with women ; but being entreated
by a Roman tribune to visit his wife, he agreed
to appear to her in a dream, as he accordingly
did the following night.
The ~ppearaoce of St. Ambrose, to direct
the discovery of the bodies of GervuiUB and
.Prolasius, and of Gamaliel, who, in the reiga
of HonoriUB, brought to light that of St. Stt7
phen and his sons ; in testimony of which a
festival, called the Festival of the Discovery of
$t. Stephen's Body, was established, must be
mentioned, and may be classed under the same
head.
The dreams which contributed to raise the
reputation of saints, cc formed to fancy visions
and phantoms, and report them," and to im-
;ose on the credulity of their vptaries, were
so numerous and trifling, that it woiJ].d be a
142
fmitless·waste of time t& analyze their diStinct
character.
In our own country, St. Dunstan was mar..
vellously addicted to dreams aod ~sioos, and
though they do nbt- appear to have been par~
ticularly edifying, they were very profitdJte ro
himself; since HoliDBhe:d informs ·us,' tbtt
11 through declaring of his dreams and vi~tions
be obtained, mthe time of king Edgar, first,
the bishopric of Woreester, afterwards Of Lo•
cion, and.JUt of all the arehbishopnc of ·caa-
-terbu., •.." · '
. On the other hand, ·dreams had sometimes
.a contrary effect; for the same author informs
u~ that Richard de Havering resigned the
archbishopric of Dublin for reflections ·on ·a
dream, which led him to consider, that he re-
ceh·ed the revenues of his see, and had sui-
• Holinslled. vol•.ii. B. 'T. p. 16
143
fered his &clt to starve for want of preach-
ing•.
We are aot to suppose, that spurious visions
were peculiar to the Romish Church, since
many pious frauds, ·with. respect to dreams,
were fabricated abd countenanced in supersti-
tious times, even by those who .designed to
support the reformation of existing abuses.
Art WaB in those cases opposed to art ; but it
was·to the credit of the leading restorers of true
religion in this and other countries, that they
ridiculed and disclaimed such assistance, and,
under the final influence of the reformed faith,
" refused profane and old wiv«ils' fables, · ex-
ercising themselves rather unto godliness ;"
'putting to flight dreams, OJllens, ghosts, and
hobgoblins, disenchanting castles, and exor-
Cising, at length, only by reason and true phi-
• ~olinshed's Detcription of Ireland, Ch. 5.
losaphy, church-yards, haunted houses, and
possessed pei'!IODS •.
As specimens of the dreams before alluded
~o, we .shall mentiou some which, both under
tbe Romiah and reformed periods, have been
fabricated by superstition or imposture.
'
ThenigbtbeforeWilliamU.waskilled,~monk
dreamedthathe saw the kingpawwith llis teeth
the image of Christ cruci6~d, and that ~ he
was about to bite away the legs of. the. same
image, Chris.t with his feet spurned him to the
ground; that as he ,lay there iuued fro~ his
mouth a flame of fire and abundance of s~oke.
This being related. to the king by Robert Fitz-
Hammon, he made a. jest of it, saying,'' This
monk would fain have something for his d.-eam :
go, give him an hundred shilliugs, but bid bim
look that he dream more auspicious dreams
.• lJqrebimoA on Witchcraft, p. 8l..
ltereafter." Notwithstanding also tlleae ao4
.other warnings, be went out to hunt in the
New Forest, though somewhat moved~ He
bad stayed in all tbe forenoon, till an artificer
brought him six cross-bow arrows, very strons
.and sharp, whereof he kept four, and delivei'M
wo to Sir Walter Tyrrel, a knight of Nor•
mandy, his bow-bearer, saying, ct Here, Tyr-
rel, take yGur two, fur you know how to shoot
them to a good purpose." The eYeDt ia weU
known ; the king was accid~tally killed by.Sir
Walter Tyrrel's arrow •.
Holinshed relates, that Henry Beauclerk, the
brother of Rufus, h;ul a warning 'Yhieh con-
tributed to hia safety.
Dreams multiplied with the dangers which
assailed the Romish power. Pope lnno-
ce~t IV. ia said to have dreamed, that Robert
* Baker's Cbrouicle, ·p. ISS, 54o. Waole,y'• Wonder,
B.'iv. C.5t.
VOL. I. H ,
-
146
Groathead, biahop of Lineob1, came to him,
and with hia atatf atruck him on the side, say•
ing, " Sur~e, miler, d 'Vetli in judicium;'-
s' Rise, wretch, .aad come to judgment." Thit
dream, indeed, might very probably have oc-
cWTed, aa it was not extraordinary, that the
pope's fears must have been alarmed by
the contagious principles of hostility which
thil iuuOYator was propagating in a country so
lucntive to the see of Rome. The pope is
aid to have died a few days after ; the agita-
tion occasioned by the dream might poasibly
have accelerated his death •.
Tb0111111 .Aquiau, who is called the Evan~
gelical Doctor, is said to have accustomed
bimaelf, by abStract speculation, to fall into
eratacy, becomiag to all appearance dead, and
gaining the knowledge of abstrWIC things and
·mysteries t• This report might have been
• B*p. Ch.lrut. Cent. 18. p. "f9,
t Zuingle Theat. L iii. p. !!SS.
h7
framed in reference to the abstracted studiea
and discove~:ies of 1he.saint, tmd belie\red from
regan!l to'his extraordinary chllt'llcter ; but not-
-withstanding the general merit which has beeu
ascribed by his admirers ·to his writings, \\'e
need not the spleen of Luther to dispute their
inspiration.
The ·night before Henry II. ef France was
slain, his queen is related to have dreamed~
-that she saw her husband's eye put out, which
afterwards happened in a tournament, in which
-he engaged in spite of the entreaties of his
wife, by a splinter from a ·broken lance of a
knight, named Montgomery,·wbich occasioned
the death of tbe king. It is further reported~
that a little before this event the king, on heai-
ing a distinguished counsellor, .Ann du Bourg,
plead in defence of the Protestant religion,
and against ;persecution, with a strong address
to himself, was so incensed as to catn1e him to
be apprehen~ and imprisoned, proteshng-tG
him in these words : " These -eyes ·of mine
shall see thee burnt." During this time great
H2
148
feasts were preparing at court for the marriage
of the kiog's daughter and sister. The day
being arrived, the king employed the morniog
in examining the president and other counsel-
lors against Du Bourg, ahd others charged
with the same doctrines, intending to glut his
eyes with their execution : but that very after-
noon he received the fatal blow in his right
_eye, which killed him in eleven days •.
This story might possibly he the pious iu-
l'ention of the Huguenots, to intimate Qod's
resentment against persecutl,)rs. Bacon, how-
ever, informs us, that, when in France, he
heard from Dr. Pena, that the queen mother,
'11\ho was given to curious arts, had caused
the king's mtivity to be calculated under !l
feigned name, and laughed at their judgment
when informed that he should be killed ill a
duel, thinking tlut.t his station raised him above
that danger •.
• Clark's 1\lartyr,
t -Bacon's Worlu, vol. ill. P• 5-53.
149
James V. who wished to discountenanee the
Reformation, which broke out io Scotland
about .1541, deno~ced persecution against
its advocates, and even against his own sons, if'
they should engage in ihe ca.use. Sir James
Hamilton, who was suspected of a bias to ~e
_party, was falsely accused of preac:lling against
the king's life, and in consequence ell.~ted.
Soon afterwards the king at Linlitbgow llllw,
in his sleep, Thomas Scott, the justice's clerk,
aurrounded by devils, lamenting that he had
been employed in a persecution whic:h had
now subjected him to torment.
It is added, that Scott died on the next
day, and that he expired, dec:larillg that he was
condemned by God's righteous judgment.
James is said to have· been disturbed with
other dreams, the effect of a guilty c:on-
scienc~ •.
• Spotswood's Hist. of the Ch111'Ch o£ Sootland.
H 8
}50
-The entlwaiaatic dreams bJ whim faaatic
..- deiOpiDg ma have dared to boast of divine
Nvelaboll8, w.he&her. fo~ the aflvancement of
political e1 Feligio~ interests, w for. tlie par-
peees of .pu10nal ambition, deserve to be
III'Onli.J repr.obated 88 impioua and shocking.
-'moai the moat ~emukable peri!Qns in the
• IJI'e8eM age, wh& have laic! claim to sllda m.
a~, is Paul Emaimel Swedenburg,wLose
~decl \&~lUI hiNe-lteen e~ployed t& ...,.
)181'1 die utravapot. ei"uaiou o£ an ec:etmlrie
llll4 bewildered imagillation, betraying die v~
nities of self-decept.ieR,. or the· 'tile <:OJl~vauce
offraud, and serviag but to. buoy up his foolish
t.llower• widJ· iteluaive ceaeeits, wlrtile· tlley
lliolaa. tlte p•eceJls and positive ordioallees of
Qmaaiimicy.
Theee prophrme follies,. after the transient
inmtuation shall have vanished, which hu lifted
up some fickle and wayward minds, even in
this philosophical country, will be as much
forgotten, .. are the fantastic mve.Rtions, vi-
siODS~ and prophecie~ of Dubricius Comenius
151
md HottB- •, who ftouriahed oa the sam~
aoil.
There is a great similarity in the meum-e.
adopted. by fanatical men in every age, aod we
are, therefore, not surprised to find Wesle)ll
maintaining, that hit followers experienced re;-
mission of sias and eouversions in their dreams.
" What I have to eay,.. says this cantiog ~
dwsiast, u touching visiOIIS or dreauis, is this :
I knew several perseDS in whom this great
change wu wroushc ia a dream, .. duriag a
strong represeutation to the eye of 1he mind
of Christ, either on the cross, or in history,
this it the fac:t.11 He aft~ards, t.owever1 ad-
mits, that they are of a doubtful and disputable
nature, and might be from God, or might
nott.
• W~sley'• Joumal from Aug.1t, 1138. to Nov.l,17'3!),
p. 49, and Warburton'a Doctrine of Grace, P• 171, C. U.
t Ibid. p. 60, it.
11 4
152
Tile dreams of Anrice have seldom beert
productive of much good. A rich man in
Wales, having dreamed three nights succe8-
~vely, that there was a chaia of gold hiddeu
ender the Lead-stoDe of a well, named St. Bar-
aard's Well, went to the place, and putting
his hand into the hole, it was bitten by an ad-
der •: .aad, not many years since, as the inte-
resting r~luses of Llangollen would testify,
" deluded cobler was digging,. in consequence
,f. a dream,. among the ruiDB of the castle of.
Dinas-Brune, which overhangs the vale, in
~reb of gold.
. The pride of controversy has produced its
dreams: Bradwarden, in his once-famous
book De Causa Dei~ tells us of a dream that
he had in the night, when writing in confu!a-
tion of Pelagius. In this dream he fancied,
that he was caught into the air, and that Pe-
lagius took hold of and cast him down head-
• Holinshed, ...oi. ii. Ch. 4!.
JSS·
loug; but that, after much struggling, he him.
self had prevailed, and cast down Pelagius,
so that he broke his neck ; whereby the con-
troversialist was comforted and encouraged to
finish his work •.
Objects of taste and antiquarian research
have been promoted, it should seem, by d~eams.
Mons. Pierre, Coullllellor of Parliament of
Provence, going from Montpelier to Nismes.
with James Rancis, is said to have collected
from his companion's dreams where he might
purchaae a Julius CalSilr m gold for four
crowns.
·The author · cannot explain by what pro-
phetic sagacity I..ady Seymour dreamed, when
a maiden, that she found a nest with nine
finches in it, and which is s~d to have bet:o
verified when she married the earl .of Win.
• Rof!COe's Life of Lorenzo de Medici, vol. ii. p. !5S,
Cb.tO.
H 5
154
tbelsea, whose ume wao Fmch, and by whom.
me had nine children.
A dream of somewhat similar c:ast is related
to have happened to the mother of the cele-
brated Sir Thomu More, which I shall give
without comment, in the words of Sir ThomaS>
More, who was grandson te tbe chancellor,
aod a rigid adherent of the Romish church :
K Dr. ae~t: says he, quoting seemingly
abe account from Stapleton, " reporteth from
SirThomas bis own meuth, a vision which she
had the nest night after her marriage, in which
abe saw in hu sleep, as it were eograven in her
wedding ring, the number and favour of all
her children she was to have, whereof the f'ace
ef one waa so dark and obscure, that she could
aot well disc:em it; and indeed afterwards she
IUifered of one of her ch~ aa untimely
delivery ; but tile face of one of ~·Other sba··
beheld shining most gloriously, whereof no
doubt Sir Thomas his fame and sanctity was
forf'.Shewed and presignified •.
• Life of Sir Tho111111 More, p. 55.
155
CHAPTER XI.
OJI' OTH'BR DRBAMS RELA'l'ED IN HODIRJI'
ACCOUNTS.
There are people I know w)lo han so great a regard to
nery fancy of their own. that they can believe the.i: vers
dreams.--.Siu~fte.butJ'• Mol'dlilt.
THB genenl theory to which the author ia
inclined is, that no dreama, excepting tliose
involved with the history of revelation, ~,lave
any necenary connection with, or can afford
any auiBtance towards discovering the scenes
of futurity. At the same time he ca.ilnot but
confess that there are many accounts supported
on great authorities, which militate against this
opinioa, and that sometiqaes almost shake his
convictions: that .he may not appear to decide
on partial grounds, and that every one may
bave an opportuaity of judgin~' he will
H 6
156
proceed to furnish some of the most remarkable
· dreams in more modem time, which have been
thought to have the strongest claims to be
regarded as prophetical, and which, as tltc}t
have had no relation to prevailing systems,
cannot be attributed to superstitiOUII imposture,
taking them generally in the order of time, and
Dot meaning to attach any particular importance
to those which may be first related.
A citizen of Milan being asked for a debt as
owing by his dead father, beheld in his sleep,
when in trouble thereat, the image of his
father, which informed him that the debt was
paid in hill life-time, and directed him wher~
to find an acknowledgment signed ·by the
creditor, which was produced, and which St.
Austin professed to have seen *.
Petrarcb issaid to have dreamed that a friend,
"·bo was dangerously ill, appeared to him, and
• Flllgos. L. i. C. 5. P. 1110•.
1.57
signified that there was a person at hand who
could cure him, and desired Petrarch to re-
commend him to his attention. A physician
soon afterwards entered Petrarch's room, who
had come from the 11ick man in despair of his
recovery, but on the-intercession of Petrarch
returned, and ere long restored the patient*.
This account, probably, took its rise from
]?etrarch's merely dreaming that a physician
might cure his friend, as he accordingly did ;
and the marvellous arises from the mistatement
of the story, which with many other extra-
ordinary relations is collected in Wanley's
Wonders, a compilation in· which wonderful
tales are indu11triously scraped together,. aod.
given with names and apparent authorities
which impose on credulity.
" Condivi," says• Mr;. Roscoe, " relates an.
extraordinary story respecting Piero, the: son.
• Fulps. L i. .C. 5.· P. 13~••
us
of Lonmo de Medici, communicated to him
by Michelapolo,. who bd, it seems, formed
an intimacy wi&h one CArdieri, an lmproviaa-
tore, who frequented the house of Piero, and
amused hia cvenioga with singing to the lute.
Soon after the death of Lorenzo, Cardieri
informed Michelagnolo, that Lorenzo had
appeared to him habited only in a black and
aged mantle thrown over hia naked limbs,
and bad ordered bim to acquaiot Piero de
Medici that he would in a abort time be
banished from Floreace. Cardieri, who seems
judiciously to have teared the reaeotment of
the living more than that of the dead, declined
the o8ice; but soon afterwards Lorenzo enter-
ing W. chamber at midnight awoke him, and
ftJII'08Cbiag him with his inattention, gave him
a violent blow on the eheek. Having com-
municated the account of this second visit to
a frieild, wbo adviled bim no lonpr to delay
laia enand, be aat out for Caregi, where Piero
then resided; but meeting him with his·atteud-
ants about midway between that place aud
Florenc:e, be there deliveu4 biB message to
159
t~ great amusement of Piero and his followers;
one of whom, Bernardo Divizio, afterwards
Cardinal Da Bibbieoa, sarcastically asked him,
whether if Lorenzo hlltl been desirous of giving
information to his son, i~ was likely he would
have preferred such a messenger to a peraonal
communication." The biographer adds with
great solemnity, ff the vision of Cardieri, or
diabolical delusion, or divine prediction, or
strong imagination, whate\ter it might be, was
"erified*;" but u the awful spectre is now
before me," says the aochor of the Life of
Lorenzo, '' I see the ter~ed musieiao stan
from his slumbers, his left hand grasps hia
beloved lyre, whil8t with his right threwn over
his head he attempt~ to shroud himself·from
the looks of Lorenzo, who with a countenance
·more in sorrow thtm. in auger pOints but to him
his destined mission. To realize this acene,
IJO as to live it interest aod etfeet, woaW
•. La Vision del Cardieri, &c.
160
require the glowing imagination, and the ani·
mated pencil of a Fuseli •."
On no occasions, however, have dreams·
been so frequently reported, and so readily
received, as those which have been supposed
to be connected with impending death, and
when God seems still u to open the ears of
men, and sealeth their instruction, that he
may withdraw man from his purpose, and hide:
pride from man, keeping back his soul from·
the pit, and his life from perishing by the
aword t.P And if upon any occasions super·
natural interference is to be admitted, it cer-
tainly must be where objects of such moment
are concerned.
Alexander the philosopher, who had the
reputation of being free from superstition,
reports of himself, that sleeping one night at a
• Roscoe's Life of Loreuo de :\fedici, vol, ii. p. !53,
c. 10,
t Job uxiii. 16. 111.
161
place which was distmt a day's journey from
the resideuc:e of his mother, he beheld the
~lemoization · of her Cuoeral. The cfremo.
being mentioaed to many, and the time punc-
~ly observed,. certain iatelligenc:e was brought
to him on the succeeding day, that at the same
hour his dream happened, his mother expired• •
. Jovius relate& that, A. D. 1.728, Sl.-tia
dreamed in a moming slumber, that having
fiillen into a river he was in great dan1er of
being drowned,: and that on calling for usist-
auce to a man of extraordinuy stature who was
on the further side of the shore, he was by·
him slighted and neglected. He related the
dream t8 his ·wife and servants ; on the same
day seeing a child fall into a river near the
castle of P~sc:ara, he leaped into the river
with design to,save the child, but being over~
burden~ with the weight of his armour, be.
was choaked in the JDUd and perished t·
• Wauley's Wopders, B. 6. C. 8. Was he au aw:ient
ormodeml · · ·
t Heywood's Hierarch. L. iv. P• !16.
J6t
· Pope 0...., apeab of a monk wh~ in a
.tream foresaw hie owa death-. tGgether ,.itb
that of _,. other 11181Dbaa .f hil .......eery.,
., likewile that of IOIDe liaten of a neigh-
ltouriag_ CGB¥ei: but JDO...teria wae the
ICeDII of ictioa.
The Bishop of Lombee,. wlio- waa tile in-
timate friend o£ Petiarch., p~e~~ed him iD she
iDolt eiB'Dalt maDDer to visit him at LomiJa.,
Peararda had promiled to 10 the begiwniq of
the year follo~ aad bad eYeD. fonDeO the
~ .of lflttliug eatirelJ liar ... ..v.w.
friead, wbeo he ~ell the meJaocholy uewe
thlt the t.iebop waa Culgaoully iD at LomiJa.
Thil informatioD alarmed hila uceediagly : he
idcblated between feu and hope. " ODe
aipt ia ray sleep," says PetJUcb., 11 I thouglat
I saw the biahop walking aloae,. and Cl'OIBiag
the ...._ that wa111red my prdeo. I JU. to
him, and. asked hila a tboland queationa at
once. From whence came you? Where are
you going so fast? Why are you alone l The
IUsbop replied with a smile., f Do you JeCQllect
l6S
the IJUIIimer ,ott pasaecl wiab me on the other
Bide the Gar011111e l The eJimate·aad the ma•
nen of GaeooBy dUpleased yo117 &Dei yea.feuacl
the storma of the Pyreunees insupportable. I
now t.bi.a: u yoa did. 1 ua weary Gl it
myself. I haYe bid adieD to tbia bua-..
country, and am l'ehanaiag to-Heme.' Behad.
continued to walk en while he spake \hese
words, ani: wu get to the eDCl of tile pnfen,
I attempHd to joill bim, .and bege4i that I
migllt a& leaat be ptli'IDittecl the benour of.
accompanyiac hHa, tlle billlaop pntly pbt me
back with hi• ban.i, aod clwugiwg hia c:oute-
. Dltllee d thtt teiiB oi -'Mice,. ' :No,• Jaid.
be, ' yw mUll aet come widl. me at pr•-.'
After ha.viag aaUl this he looked 1ted&etly at
IDe, and then ~ wu that l1aw on hi. faCe all
tile signs· of deathw Tlae sudden sUdt of this
sight caUJed me to uy alood, and IIIWaked me
from my sleep; l marked the day, and Mlated
the eircumsWlc:• to the friends I had at
Parma, and wrote an· account of it to my
other friends in many d'df'erent places. Five-
a~d-twenty days after this I J!eteived the
t6+
mourofill news that the Bishop of Lombes
was dead, and found that he died on the very
day that I bad seen him in vision ia my garden."
-" This singular accident," 11111s he to John
.4ndre, u givea me no more faith in dreams
dian C"JCero had, who, 88 well 88 myself, had
a cham c:oofirmed by the event *."
~eory the third of France is related to have
had a dream predictive of his unfortunate fate
at St. Cloud, but which does not appear to
have been attended with any mere use; ·and
LoW. of Bourbon, Prince of Cond~, who
lived ia the 1eveoteenth c:eatury, ia aaid to have
dreamed, that after having gained three suc-
c:eaive 'Vic:torie1, and defeated his great enemies,
he 1bould be mortally wouncled, and his dead
body laid on theirs; 88 came to pus, for the
Marshal de St. Andr~ W88 killed at Dreux,
the Duke ofGuise,FrancisLorrain,at Orleans;
the COIIItable Montmorency at St. Denys ; the
• Mrs. Doblon'1 Life of Petran:b. vol. j, p. 188.
165
triomviratc; that had sworn the destructiOn of
the prince and his religion ; at last he himself
was slain at Bassac.
Pere Matthieu tells us that the queen of
Henry the Fourth of France waking in the
night some little time before the aSSIUisination
of her husband, in great agitation, the king
enquired the cause ; she said that she had been
dreaming that somebody stabbed him with a
knife on the staircase. u Thank God," !'&YS
the· king, u it is only a dream.'' Henry was
so impressed by those and other prognostics
which are represented to have foreboded his
fate, that he was desirous of postponing the
coronation of the queen, and at length con-
sented with reluctance and apprehension to
induJge her wishes, and assist at the ceremony;
of which an interesting acoount may be seen
in SuUy's .Memoirs.
Monsieur Cameron relates of Monsieur
Calignan, Chancellor of Navarre, that be was
warned at Bearn three times by a voice which
166
addreued bim in .aleep, aulmoaishing him to
leave the .towu a few days before the plague
nged there.
There are many dreams of this description
mentioned in the history of our country, HOme
of the principal ~f '!hWh we ahall aotice.
Holiashed relates that a dreamwas iJDP811e!)
to Elstric, io which Edmund appearetl to fall
asleep amidst bia ceurtiers at au entertainment,
~d which was .iotelpreted by St. Duostan to
have predicted lhe death of the kiog *. St.
Duoatan himself was fuOIU'ed with Yisiona
upeu the.IIIDle llllbjec:t.
Al&ed, when ~mpelled by the D~ to
take refuge iD Idliogsay, in the marshes of
Somersetshire, .fancied, it is stated t, that lw
saw St. Cuthbert in his sleep, who eo~
him in his.despondency with the promise. that
• B..... C.I._
t UoJiDibal, .B. vi C. ta6.
-167
be s1Jould 1000 t"eCCler hil kiugdem to the
coofueioa of bit enemies, 1188Driag him ia
testimoay of the promile, tlult some of his
fishermea woo were employed with their nets,
•hould procure a considerable draught of 6sh
though the rivu was frozen at the time, both
of which events speedily came to pass. The
.tory originated, probably, in some reftectiona
which raised the coafidence of Alfred, or was
contrived by bim, aa wei u a similar dream
attributed lo bis .mather, to euimm his fo1.
Iowen.
' .
When Rollo the Dillie being defeated by .
Alfred had left Englaod, his brother in Jaw
was admonished by his mother aot to engage
ia his cauee, bat penistiag be was killed• •
.It was e8sy to inveat dreams when a.religions
I88CtioD was required to political designs, u
when the lineage of the Kings of England was
• See Cenquea llf lnilaad. p. rr. C. &
168
in a manner extinct, and the questioo of tlui
succession much agitated, a pe~soo named
Brightwold, a man of Glastonbury, afterwards
Bishop .of Wiochester, being much employed
ou this snbject, dreamed that he saw St. Peter
cGDSecrate and anoint Edward, son of Egelred;
thenremaining anexilein Normandy, to be King
of England; and on· demanding of St. Peter
who should succeed Edward, he was directed
by the apoatle to take no thought of these
matten, for the kingdom of England was the
.peculiar care of.God•.
Edgiva, the mother of Adelstan by Edward
King of Mercia, was predisposed to surrender
h~nelf to the king, by dreaming that a moon
ascended from· her, which, by its splendour,
enlightened all England t• 'she seems to have
been inclined to rival some of the ladies ·of
utiquity who had the saine royal presages, and
• Holin!ht>d, Chron. i.
t HoliDsbed, vol. ii. B•.& p. 153.
l~
lbQ\I&h oflwepareut~F-wu,.it __.,.broqpt
up.in~e ex~ Q( ~e pat~.
-The 88Dle historian telLs ua that William
Rufus not long before bil being ~eel iu lh.e
New Forest, 4reamed that the veins of his arm
·"'"'~ ·wen, •d tlaatthte bi09CI ilsaecl • in
great abundance.
HoWed a1so -iofOI'IRI 111 that Ueary I.
\\'hen io Nonoaody, wu" troul,led with c:er-
tairle strange dreams, or :risi~, io his lleepe,
fpr as be ~t be saw a multitudepf_ploup.
men -with such -toole.s ._. belonc to ·theirtrade
and occupation, and after whom came a aort of
souldiers with warlike weapons, and last of all
bishops approaching towards him with their
UOBiur ~t...:es ~y to faU _upon him.u if tbey
meant to kill him." Thesewere theperturbation•
of a mind appreheusive of tbe effect of mea•
-4IUJe8 -wbidl-hH-prebably aliena&ed .the •·-
.tion of his subj~ts ,; .they are .reported ~y the
historian to ha~ affected him, .an4 twdcr .the
admonition of bia &ieada, .to ha~ .op.e.--~ to
VOL. 1.
'iis amendment. ; and the historian comparing
his conduct with that of William Rufus, con-
siders metaphysical dreams as having ''a special
'jnfluen~e from above miture;s reach," and as
designed to operate as warnings.
The same author also relates that after the
death of the esteemed Earl of Arundel who
was executed by order of Richard the Second,
the king, as the fame went, was 'sore vexed in
·his sleepe ·with horrible dreames, imagining
·that he saw this earle appeare unto him threat-
.ening him and putting him in horrihle fear, as
.' if he had said with the poet to Richard :
• I come the ghost of him thy crimt'!s who knew,
~ .And with my death-like form thy steps punue t."
With which visions being sore troubled he
• 11 cursed the daie that he ever knew the earle t·"
• Holi•shed's Chron. yoJ. i. p. 44. -
t So Ovid: Nunc qooqut'! factorum, &e.
; Holinahed'• Cbron. YoL ii. p•i9!·
171
Thehistorian infom•s us th.at his half-brot1Jer, -
Walter Barrie, being about to undertake a
military expedition, was \\'amed, as he sup-
posed, by liis mother-in-law then dead, to
forbear the journey, but persistio1 he w.u
killed on the tiay that he set off•.
Holimhed relates, that the design of •
Irishman to murder Hugh de Lacy was defeated
by the measures !&kea in conseql!to.nce of a
dream imparted to one Griffith, and that the
traitor was slain t.
· nte same author reports that a fame.had
spread that ltichard the Third, the night pr&o
ceding the battle of Bosworth Field, whicb
terminated his reign and his life, " ~ a
dreadfull aud terrible dreame, for it seemed to
him being·asleepe that he did see diverse imaget
like terrible devils which pulled and haluri,him,
DOt suffering him to take any quiet or rest ; the
• Holiw.hed, C. 4t
t ld. -rol. ii. C. 40. ·U.
"'1Jicb 1ltnlngt •ision 'ldoORIJ'IOnddealyetrock
his. beatt llrith few,·bat it staffed his head, ..-1
'troabled lib miaad witll m&Ay t.uyaaddn!adful
imagitati0111, for~ after, bis beut
lhingtiJmeet damped,'he'Pfi'JPOSiic:ated'before
the doubtful t'btmee~ ·tH lNattleto oome, D8t
uamg tbe alacritie and mirth of mind and
.omuotenarme'llfllle wutceostomedto.do, Wore
'he came towetod &he baule; .mteaat that it .
'Jnigbt ·IJe IIU!peCted that \se wu abashed f«
=feare flf his ehemies, and fer that cause looked
.a piteously, he recited and .decllftd to hit
familiar friends, in the morning, his wonderful
.moo '81ld fearful dreame ; upon which the
'historian well observes, but I think tbis wu
tto dream, ·ttut a punctian and pricke of his
•inful c0118Cienee, far the ·COIJIICience is so
much ·more charged and IIIJBI'ievecl u tbe
~ce is greater, and more heinous in degree,
('lo •that King Richard by ·this reckoning muat
needs havet·wonclerful tJroobled mind, because
die -deeds .that .he had .doDe, u they :were
heinous and uuoatural, so did tlley excite ud
stirre up extraordinarie notions of trouble -.d
~ations iu bis ~oascience ;) which sting of
cooscieoce~ although it strike net alwaie-, yet
at the last day of extreme life, it is. wont to
Bhow and ft!preseat to us our faulls uul Q£-
fences, and the pains and pnnisbme•ts which
bang over our heads for the coiiUIIitt.ing of tbQ ·
same, ~ the intent that at that instant we foa:
our deserts being peaitent and repentant ma)t
lle compelled, latneotiog, ·and bewaiiiog oul'
a like fonakera of this. wodd, jocund to
deput out of this miacheefeli.ie•."
The Bight befere the lm'eat •d aec.ruQI\
of Lord· .Hastings., •·ho was hebaded bJ th~
protector, aft~ard& Richard the ThU:d, Lotd
Staolye sent a trustie ~ger 1.ato him at
midnight in an the haste, requiriug him to rise
and ride away with hila, for be was dilposed
utterly no longer to -.Nde, lte had so fead'ul a
dreame, in which bim· thought. that. a. bo~e
with hiM twlhea so rased them bJ! the heads.
• Holimhell. ftl. i. p. t55.
1 3
that the blood ran about both tbeir shoulders ;
and forasmuch as the Protector gave the boare
for his cognisance, tLis dreame made so fearful
an impression orr his heart that be was tho-·
roughly deterinined no longer to tarie, but bad
hi$. horse readie if the Lord Hastings would go
with him to ride yet so farre the same night,
that they should be out of danger per daie.
'' Ha~ good Lord," quoth the Lord Hastings
to tl1is messenger," leaneth my lord thy master
so much to such triftes, and bath such faith in
dreames which either his own feare fantasieth,
~ do rise -in the night's re~t hy reason of his
CJaies thoughts. TeH him it is plaine witchcraft
to ·believe in such dreames, which if they were
token of things to come, why thinketh he not:
that we might be as likelie to make them true
by our going, if we were·caugbt and brought
backe as ·friends faile fliers, for then had the
boare a cause likelie to rase us with his tusks
as folke that fled for some faL'Iehood, wherefore
either is there perile, or none there is indeedf
or if anie be, it is rather in going than biding ;.
and in case we should needs fall in perill one
17$
waie or other, yet had I rather thatmen should
see that it were by other men's falsehood, than
thinke it were either by our owne fault, or
fainte heart ; and, therefore, go to thy master.
(man) and commend me to him, and praie .
him be merie and have no feare, for I insure
him I am as sure of the man that he woteth of.
(meaning CatelfbJ, who deceived him, and sug-
gested h~ removal) as I am of my own hand*.".
If we receive the account of Shakespeare
derived from ancient chronicles, the Duke ~f
Clarence before b~·execution
" Put a miserable night,
Filii of ugly sights of ghutly dre81115/'
iome of which the poet has described wit~
much power of fancy.
Bishop Jewel is said to have dreamed in
Queen Mary~s time, that two of his teetl,l
• Bolinsbed, Yo!. i. p. '1!3.
I 4
F16
dropped.oat;:-ud as he 80(')~ afterwatds ·heatd
of the burning of Ridley and Hooper, the
dream· \VU reprde~ 118 pFophetic: of his.lOIII
OJl that ad: edc:&lioo. - .
It is related ako irr tile boolud' Matt,_, •
tht in- Q~~eeo ll..,.s time wlrta.pre~~~~tdticM\
raged agaiil8t' the- Pfotutan&e,. Mr.. ~
who presidtM over 8- dOII~MHl WJiidl~ 88i-
aembled l!iec:retly in London, and -llad the
~eudnce of dre ~, Wllf it»p:>-.i•o
of a- ft)ll eontlliuiug tba JiBIDU of-M ~
gation. It happenecl- oaw flight dlat .M't-•. C...
bert Simploo dreamed that Mr. Rough was
taken,. and the ro:& in Ilia' pocket. Falling
aJleep again lie Jiad· tlle sante· dream, upon
wbic:h being atfec:ted, he rose up with intention
tO go to Mr. Rougli, but before he got ready
)fr. Rough came into hlnoom, to wlidm be
iold his dream, and desired him to. dispose of
tpe catalogur., that it n1ight not be {()und on
bi'm; Rough reproved him for liis fancy, 6uf
Sin1paou adjured him ilr the- name ef Get~-, •
he would answer. for the milrehief. which might
1{/7"
belal the innooe~ 1t1 that at Jt!Dgt6 he ~
seoted ; and withiu; 1w«t or throe dayB he waa .
~eo1 aootbe hook MS6tted.·
The compila- of a ltoek or dreaiD rel.aks,
t~t in the- time of tLe ci111il· wars.ltitt paRd-
father, an officer ia &he· anhJ at Wiadeor,
dreamed that his wife appeared to him saying,
'' I am no IWlll.'s. wife, but hast&' to· Londbn
J
apd. take care of )IQU· chiWtea;" auchhat ia
riding. t& towo. he re~ Ute _11ee6UBt. G' his
~-·.de~
Them ana. maa' heaots whieh diUit be
c~ u the agri IOI'Mtia, the inusiou·
of a disordu whica 'elnllioatea- i!. death, as-
Cresceotious, the pope's legate at Trent,
fancied CMae Jli&hl iao ~•im he ,... e•plo,ed
lue ~ wri~,. thM ·he saw a vue dog witrt.
ftiUIIiag eyet amd ioag ears reachiag alm011t *"
,the 1roon4_,. and fallidg.lick die4 r8ftug apiud
the dog•. ·
178
Tbat murderers should have dreams when
their minds are harassed by guilty fears, is
but what might be expected; and if we could
be induced to consider dreams as suggested by
God for th~ ordinary purposes of his m~a~
government, it would be where murders have
been discover~ by dreams.
In Baker's Chronicle it is related that Ann
Waters, seduced by alover, consented .to the
strangling of her husband, then buried him in:
a dung-hill in the cow-house. One of the
neighbours dreamt that Waters was strangled,
and buried in a cow-house; wbereupo8 a
search was iustituted, and the woman app~
hended, ro.nfessed, and was burned.
In the year 1558 Nicholas Wotton, Dean
of Canterbury, being then ambassador in
France, dreamed that his nephew, Thomas
Wotton, was inclined to be a party in such a
project, that if he was not suddenly prevented,
would ttirn to the loss of his life, and ruin of
hiS family. The night following he dreamed
179
tlte same again, and knowing that it had n~
dependence upon his waking thoughts, much
less upon the desires upon his heart, he did
then more seriously consider it ; and resolved
to use so prudent a remedy (by way of pre-
vention) as might introduce no great incon-
venience to either party. And to this end he
wrote to the queen·(Queen :Mary)and besought
her,.that she would caase his nephe\v, Thomas
Wotton, to be sent for out of Kent; and that
the lords of her council might interrogate him
in some such feigned questions, as might give
a colour for his commitment unto a favourable
prison, declaring that he would acquaint her
majesty with the tme reason of his request,
when he should next become so happy 8s to
see and speak ~ith her majesty. It was done
as the uncle desired, and Mr. Wotton sent to
prison. At this time a marriage was concluded
betwixt our Queen Mary and Philip King of.
Spain, which divers · persons did not only
declare &gainst, but raised forcei to oppose ;
of this number Sir Thomas Wyat, of Boxle)o
Abbey, iD Kent) betwixt whOse ftun.ity antl
...
180
that of dae· Wottauthere had been aa aacieat
aad entire friendship) was tlae priacipal actor ;,
who haviog penuade4 many of the aobilit]t
aod geatry (especiallyof Kent) to Bide willa
him; aua being defeatN and taken priaoner
wu.I&ITaiped, coodenmed, Md lollt hie iife;
~ ctid the Duke of Sutfolk and di.Yers ~~
..,..:ially ~ el tLe putry of Kent,. wko
were tlaen.iD ~everal pJoee. extM:uted as W,at.'a
auiataau ~ ud of this- n-.ber,. in all pro-
bability, bad Mr. Wottoa beea~ if h& W BOt
iJeel1 coofioelif ; £w tboug~ he WU· Bet ipenat
that aiiOtber man's treuoa i& malle bie own llJ
c:oucealing it, ·yet be dent coafe88 to his aoele
wbea be retumalil into &!laad, and canae fD.
"Viait him in ~ that he had more thaa ._
iotimatioa of Wyat's intentioa, ad thought
that be sboold not ha.ve· actually- egntiaaed
iomcentifhis uacle bad not10 llappilydre&J!led
laim into a priaoa; out of which place whea be
waa delivered by the aame hand tbac eabsed hit
ooofioemeot, they both coaaiclered drealWI
JBOFe aerioualy, aad t1aea bothjoined in pra~ina
God for it.· '1'111& GoG who bel himself D~
181
Jllikl -eidaer in .preventiag .of evil, w . ;ill
shewiB& mercy to ahoae whom (II{ .hia qpNIIl
pleasure he hath chosen to love •.
I
The family of Wotton was fam.Gua fot
dreams.
Thomas Wotton, 111epbew of.the celebrat~
Nicholas Wotton, Dean of C..temury, aad
ambaseador to F-nmce, clreal.ld in Kent, ·not
long before his death, that tbe treasuq' of .the
University of Oxford Lad been.robbed by 10me
tow.llsmeu and poor acboJara, nve in number.
He mentioned it in a postscript to a letter the
aame day to his son Henry., .thea at Oxford;
and the letter arrived the morning after tbe
robbery, .and by meaas of :tbe.c:OIDQlunialtioa
the persons wete detected•
.Both Nicolas .and Thomas :Wotton, 'WbQ
• haac Waltclll'a.Life o£.Sir .HenryWottop.
181
-were men of holy lives, are reported by Waltolt
te have foretold the days of their death•.
Strada relates, that the night preceding the
execution .of Mary Queen of Scots, when
Elisabeth was kept awake by the agitation of
her mind, an attendant lady who slept in her
room· being ·awakened by a dream, cried out
that she saw Mary Stewart beheaded, and soon
after ber own mistress struck .with the same
hatchet: upon which Elisabeth, who had been
distracted by the same images, being terrified,
dispatched an· express to Fotheringay to order
the executioa to be deferred ; unhappily for
Mary, the messenger did not arrive till four
· hours after the execution. The dreams were
but the n•tural effects of the cruel resolution
"·~icb Elisabeth bad.adopted t.
. Sir Francis Bacon tells us in his Natural
History, that being at Paris he told several
. .. ,,
• See Tsanc Walton's Life of Sir Henry Wotton, p. 20.
t De Bello Bclgico, L ii.
183
gentlemen there that hedreamedthathisfather's
hou11e in the country was plaistered all over with
black and mortar, and two or three days after
his father died in London. ·
Thomas Winter, one ofthe sanguinary bigots'
-who was concerned in the Gunpowder Plot,
on retiring to Staffordshire with tbe rest of the
conspirators, was, with iome of his IIIJSOciates.
scorched by the explosion of some gunpowder
to such a degree, as to be incapable of assisting
in the defence of the party wheu attacked ; and
upon this occasion is said to have recalled a
dream in which a little before he had imagined,
that he had seen steeples and churches standing
awry, and within these churches strange and
unknown· figures ; and which he represented to
have exhibited to him countenances sJisfigurecJ.
like those of Grant, Rockwood, and other of
IUs colleagues•,
• Caulfil'ld's Portraits, p. 111.
184
Tbe ·dlliiiDl 11111 adt as was tikEJiy to .eec.ur
te ·a llliari ..-p,.a ia .such .a ·pr~jert, aod it
would laue .appeared ·elfu;dlf -ver.._. if ·the
diabolial scheme apmattbe kiac aDd paa!lia-
meat bad aucceeded.
BND q.F !VO«.p, J,
Law and Oilbe'rt, l'rintcn, St. John'...S~uare,ClerkeD..fi.
THB
THEORY OF DREAMS:
nr WHICB
AN INQUIRY
Jl MADB IJrTO
THE POWERS AND FACULTIES
OW THII
HUMAN MIND,
AS THBY ABB ILLVBTBATED IN THB
MOST REMARKABLE DREAMS
BBCOBDBD IN
SACRED AND PROFANE HISTORY•
•••••
lN TWO VOLUMES.
VOL. IL
LONJ!JON:
l'all'ITJ!D I'OB 1'. C. AJID 1. lliVIWQTOJr,
118. fio 17'• •.a'IIL01 GMVBI!II-YAB..
1808.
)
..
C 0 N.TENTS.
VOLUME II.
CHAPI'EB XIL
Farther Account of modern Dreams
CHAPTER ·xm.
Page
9
General Re1lecti0111 on Sleep and Dreaming, with refer-
ence to aome remarkable Accounts t6
SHAPl'ER XIV.
On the Nature ud diclent Cauae of Dreams 54
- CHAPTEl\ XV;
On the Operatiou Gf the Miad ia the Production of
Dreams ~
CHAPTER XVI. 88
iv
CHAPl'EB XVU.
Onthe Recureoce olthoee Re!ectioDI in Sleep.11hich
.llave ft!Ppcl oar Attention when awake . 97
- CB&PTER. XVIII.
On the Inlueoce oC the Body on the llrlind in Sleep 11t
CHAPTER XX.
Of the lJ~e of lictitio111 Dream11 in Literature 145
.ERRATA.
VOL ti.
5o - U, for care read cure
•
!9, - 2, for diltmction read de~nition
55, - 3, for rtupid read mep'l
61, - 11, for ectrap4li read ectrapeli
68, - 5, for to lie read ao llup
66, "'!"" 1, (or acid r_ead acrid _
- 98, note t for pi 10m11iatat read pia IO!IIfliwtl
- 117', - 11, for mucz&icm read~
Tti'B
THEORY
DREAM~ cfc•
•••••
CHAPTER XII.
FARTHER ACCOUNT {)F MODERN DREAMS,
" You will own, 'lis no snlall pleiUIU'e with mankind to
make their dreams pass for realities; and that tke love of
truth is, in earnest, not half so prevalent as tllia passion fOl'
.novelty and Sllfl'riae, joined with a desire of making im-
·pression and being admired. ·However, I am so charitable
'lltill as to think, there is more of jnnocent deluaiou than
voluntary imposture in tbe'World; and that they who have
l'llllit imposed on maukind, hare been happy in a certain
!acuity o{ imposing first upon theJilse-lve~; by which they
"oL. J 1. a
J
hue a kind of 1al~o for their c:unseienc~1, and are 8o mucfa
the more suc:ce>>ful, a• they CIU\ act their part more na-
tiU'ally, and to the life.-&afte•6ury's Mwulisto, p. !ll•
.lVh. J. Beal, in a letter to Mr. Boyle, dated
YeoviU, October 12, 1670, informs him, that
when he was a scholar at Eton, the town was
infected with the plague, SG that Ule scholars
fled away. Upon this occasion, as his father
was deceased, his mother .at a great distance,
and his other relations at court, and he had no
address to any other person, the house in which
he abode being !!Urrouoded by the plague, even
at the next rloors ; the nature and fame of
the disease begat in him a great horror. " In
this distress," continllell he, ·~ I had an im-
pressive dream, consisting of very many par-
ticulars. I told it to all the family, and within
three days we found every circumstance true,
though very strange and seeming casual. I
foretold who were sent for me, what coloured
horses, aud very sore accidents which fell ol)
them in the way. F'l'om that time to_ this t
J.ave regarded some dreams in_ myself, and
others, Bot without advantage by the premtt-
-aitians." AU this admits of easy explication,
and we hare only ta reSect, that nothing could
be -more natural, than that a boy, under great
cJistress of mind, shou!d fancy that he wu seat
for by· those who-were most likely to be em-
ployed, and even imagine the common acci-
dents which eVentually happened. Tlte inci.
dents of childho~ excite strong impressiODB;
they are magnified on reSection, •d are ex-
aggerated on every repetition of the tale.
The relation which Mr. MoJTison gives on
_his travels must be nGticed. · " While I was
at Prague," says be, " having one night sat
up late drinking at a feast, the morning sun-
beams gleaming in my faoe in my bed_, I
dreamed that a shadow passing hy told me,
that my _father ,,.~ dead: at which awaking
all in a sweat, and affected with this dr~
I arose and wrote the day, hour, and all cir-
cumstances ia a paper book, which, with m:1ny
B 2
<)ther things, I put into a barrel, and sent Itt
England ; and being at Nuremburg, a mer-
clJant, well acquainted with me and my rela-
tions, told. me my father died »<>me months
past. When I returned into England, four
years after, I would not open the barrel, nor
~~~k into the book in "hich I had written this
dream, till I called my sisters and other friends
to be. -witnes~; when myself and they were
·astoois~ed to see my dream answer the very
day of my father's death."
~e same gentleman saith thus also : u I
may lawfully swear, that in my youth at Cam-
bridge I had the like dream of my mother's
death; "hen my brother Henry lying with
me,· early in the morning I dreamed that my
mother passed by with a sad countenance, and
told me, that she could not come to my com-
mencement, I being within five months to
proceed master of arts, and she having pro-
mised at _that time to come to Cambridge,
When I .related this dream .to my brother,
both of us awaking together in a sweat, lu;:
5
protested to me that he had dreamed the v~ry
same; and when we had not the least know-
ledge of our mother's sickness; neither in·our
youthful affections were any whit moved with
the strangeness of this dream ; yet the next
carrier ·brought us word of our mother's
death*·"
Dr. Joseph Hall, ~ben Bishop of Exeter1
speaking of the good offices which angels do to
God's servants," of this kind," saith he, n was
no less than marvellous U, which at St. Ma-
derinus, in Cornwall,was wrought upon a poor
cripple ; whereof, besides the attestation of
many hundreds of the neighbours, I took a
strict. and impartial e"amination in my last
visitation. This man, for sixteen years to-
gether, was obliged to walk upon his bauds,
by reason of the sinews of his legs were so
cootract.Kt; and upon admonitions in his dream
•
• Morri•m's Itinerary. Part I. C.!. p. 1g. and A. B.
Annot. on R.elig. Medic! p. !94, t95.
.aS
6
tQ wash in lhat weD, wu suddenly 110 restored
to bia limbs, that I .aw him able to walk and
.•t his QWD maintenance. I found here wa!r
neither art nor collusion. .The name of t~
cripple 1'l8lJ John Trebille •."
Some dreams evidently produced their own
accomplishment. When Alice, the mother of'
Archbishop Abbott, wa& p~gnant, she, as wu_
reported by the Rev. Mr. Aubrey, and many
others; dreamed, that it' 1.1he eould eat a pike
orjack, her son would be. a great man. While
eagerly employ~d in getting ODe, she is ;.aid
acidentally to have taken up One in some river
watel' thlit ran neat her houe at Guilford, and
to have seized and devoured it with avidity.
The report of this great event being noised
about, ~any persons of distinction offered
themselves as sponsors; those who were pre-
ierred maintained the future. archbiithop and
• Bishop Hall's Monitor of Godli~es, L i. § 8. p. 10.
Fulle~'s Wortbies, p. 156.
1
1m brother at .chool, and afterWarda at the
university. In this there is nothin~·imposidble
or difficult to accotmt for, but the accidental
fakiag up· of the pike, which was prohattly a
fiction of the good WOlDllll, who wislied to eJI-
eite attention to a maternal dream.
'Sir Roger L'Estrangeis reported, upon what
authority is not koown to the author, to· have
dreamed, that on a particular spot, in which
he was accustomed to sport in hislather'11 park,
be received intelligence ·ofhie father's death;
who had been long siCk. He in consequenee
resolved to avoid the spot ; but being led there
by his game, he heard the account whic:h be
apprehended.
Among the molt remarkable relatioDB of
modem times, ia the account given by Lord
Clarendon, with the solemnity of a grave
historian, relating to the US81:18ination of ~
Duke of BllCkingbtun, as eatablisbed upon u
UDUBual foundation of credit. It cannot be
given better than mthe words of the noble
B 4
hiatorian : " .There was an officer in the king's
wardrobe in Windsor Castle, of a good repu-
tation for honesty and discretion, . and the11
about the age of fifty years or more : this mm
had in his youth been bred in a school in the
parish where Sir George Villiers, the father of
the duke, lived; and had been much cherished
and obliged in that season of his age b-y ~he.
said Sir George, whom afterwards he never·
aaw. About six months before the miserable
end of the Duke of Buckingham, about mid-
night, this man, being in his bed at Windsor,
where his office was, and in a very geod health,
there appeared to him, on the side of his bed,
a man of a very venerable aspect, who drew
the curtains of his bed, and fixing his eyes
upon him, asked him, if he knew him. The
poor man, half dead with fear and appra-
·hensioo, being asked the second time, whether
he remembered him ? and having in that time.
called to his memory the presence of Sir
George Villiers, and the very cloaths he used
to wear, in which, at that time, he seemed to
be habited.: he answered ,him, that he thought ·
9
him to be th~t person : he replied, he was
in the right, that he was the same ; and ex-
pected a service from him, which was, that he
should go from him to his son the Duke of
Buckingham, and tell him, if he did not some-
what to ingratiate himself to the people, or,
at Jeast, to abate the extreme mali~e they bad
against him, he would be suffered to live but
a short time.-After this discourse he disap-
peared~ and the poor man, if he had been at
all waking, slept very well till morning, when
be believed all this to be a dream, and con-
sidered it no otherwise.
" The next night, or shortly after, the
same person appeared to him agai. in the
same place, and about the same time of the
night, with an aspect a little more severe than
before; and ilsked him, whether he had done
'as he had required him? aud perceiving he
.had not, gave him verx severe reprehensions ;
·aold him, he expecte~ more compliance from
bim ; and that if he did not perform his com-
Dlallds, he should enjoy no peac~ of mind, b~at
. B 5
10
·should be · always pursued by him.-Upod
which he promised him to obey him. But the.
next morning, waking out of a good sleep,
though he was exceedingly perplexed with the
lively representation of all particulacs to his
memory, be wu willing lltill to persuade bim-
ae)( that he·had only dreamed ; and considered
&hat be was a penon at aucb a diabulce from ·
the duke, that he knew not how to find auy
admiuion to hia presence, much lesa had any
hope to be believed i~ what he should say. So
with great trouble and unquietness, he spent
some time in thinking what he Bhould do; IUKI
in the end resolved to do nothing in the matter•
..
" The same person appeared to him the
third time wilb a terrible c:ounterumce, ancl
bitterly reproaching him for not performing
1Phat he had prom_ised to do. The poor man
-bad by this time recovered the courage to teU
·him, that in tnlth be had deferred the 8Xec:u-
1ioa 'Gf his commands, upon coDBideriug·how.
11Jf1icult a thing it would be for him to get ~y
iticcea to die duke, ha,iog acquaintance 'Willi
11
no person about him; and if· he could obtain
addliuion to him, be should never be able to
permade, that he was sent in such a manner r
but he shoold, at best, be thought to be mad,·
~ to be set on and employed, by his o\\'n or
the malice of nther men to· abuse the duke;·
and so he \\'ould be sure to be undone.-The
person replied as he had done before, that he-
should never find rest till he should perfonn
what he required, and therefore he were better
to dispatch it : that the access to his son wu
known to ·be very easy ; and that few mea
Waited long for him ; and for the gaining him
credit, he woulcl teD him two or ·three parti-
c:ulars,which he cbarged him never to meoti011
'to any persoa liYing, but to the duke himself;
Mld he should no sooner hear them, but he
would betieve all the rest he sbollld say: and
"SO 1'epeatiflg his threats, he left him. -
'
" In the morning the poor man, more ·con-
6nned by the last appearance, made his j(\umey
io London, wlsere'the court then. was. Hf! ~vas
'fery well kno'Wm to Sir R.'llph Free011\f11 one
B 6
of' th~ masters of requests, who had married
a lady who was nearly allied to the duke, and
11'111 himaelf well received by him. To him
this man went, and though he did not acquaint
him \\'ith all particulars, he said enoqgh to him
to let him see there was somewhat extraordi-
nary in it; and the knowledge be had of the
sobriety and discretion of the man, made the
more impression on him. ~e desired, that
by hi» means be might be brought to the duke,
to such a place, and in such a manner, u
11hould be thought fit ; affirming, that he had
much to say to him, and of such a nature u
would require much privacy, and some time
IUld patience in the hearing. Sir Ralph pro-
milled he would speak first with the duke of
him, and then he should understand his plea-
eure: and accordingly, in the fint opportuoitf,
he did inform him of the reputatien and ho-
ucllty of the man, and then '"hat he desired,
and of all be kuew of the matter. The· duke,
according to hi11 usual openness and conde-
IIC.:nsion, told him, that ht! was the next day
·early to bunt with the king; that his horBea
IS
should attend him at Lambeth-bridgeJ wher~
be would land by :five of the clock in the
morning ; and if the man attended him there
at that hour, he would walk and speak with
him as long as should be necessary.
Sir Ralph carried the man with him the
next morning, and presente~ him to the ~uke
at his land.ng, who received him courteously,
and walked aside in conference near an hour ;
none but his own servants being at that hour
in that place, and they aud Sir Ralph at such
a di11taoce, that they could not hear a word,
though the duke sometimes spoke, and with
great commotion, which Sir Ralph the more
easily observed and perceived, because he kept
hit eyes always fixed upon the duke, having
procured the conference, upon so01ewhat he
knew there was of extraordinary. And the
man told him, in his return over the water,
~t when he mentioned those particulars,
.which were to gain him credit, the substance
.whereof, he said, he durst not impart to him,
. he duke'a colour changed, and be swore he
could come to that knowlege only by the
devil ; for that those particulars were known
only to himself and to one person more; "·ho,
he was sure, would never speak of it.
or The duke pursued his purpose of hunting,
but was observed to ride all the momiug with
great pensiveness, and in deep thoughts, withl
out· any delight in the exercise be was upon~
and before the morning was spent left the
field, and alighted at his mother's lodgings in
White-Hall, with whom he was shut up for
the space of two or three hours, the noise
of their discourse frequently reaching the ea~
of those who attended in the next rooms : and
when the duke left her, his countenance af>"'
peared full of trouble, with a mixture of an•
ger, a countenance that was never before o~
served in him in any conversation with he!',
towards whom he had a profound reverence.
And the countess herself (for though she was.
married to a private gentleman, Sir Thomn
Compton, she had been created Countess Of
Bul:kingbam shortly after her son had first -aS-
15
tutned that title) was, at the duke's Ieavins
her, found overwhelmed in tears, and in the
highest agony imaginable. Whatever there
was of all this, it i11 a notorious truth, that
when the news of the dalke's mu...er (which
happened within a few months after) was
brought to his mother, she seemed not in the
least degree surprised, but received it as if
slle bad foreseen it ; nor did afterwards. ~
presa such a degree of sorrow as was expected
from such a mother for the loss of such a son."
To the truth of an account so hllly and cir-
cumstantially given, and on such authority, it
may be thought au uoreasonable attachment
to system to refuse ast~ent ; and it must be ad-
mitted, that if we could suppose departed
shades to be allowed to appear, the message
whiclt Sir George Villiers is represented to
have iDBtructed the officer to deliver to hia son,
, was such as argued a parental solicitude,andwu
-calculated to produce that change in the co~
-41uct of the duke which might have averted hia
impending tate. The aqtbor, however, tho~),\
16
.he presumes notto reject the account, has only
to remark, that it should be remembered,
that the death of the Duke of Buckiogham
was a subject of great national importance.
That his distinguished character and influence,
and the impressive circnmstances under which
he was assassinated, rendered it a subject of
universal conversation. The imagination of
~en was set on float, and every one was, doubt-
less, eager to communicate what might interest
attention. The noble historian tells us, that
there were many stories scattered abroad at
that time, of several prophecies and predic-
tions of the duke's untimely and violent death.
Omens of this kind were ea~y fabricated, and
believed, in an age not free from superstition.
The affection of relations is disposed to col-
lect and ex~ecrgerate every particular connected
\tith the death of those on whom their hap-
piness and prosperity may have depended. It
may be considered also, that it is by no means
impossible that the dream and message might
have been contrived by the countess, with de-
eigu to produce.an impreuion on the d&Jke,
17
and a reformation, that might secure him from
the effect of the unpopularity to which she saw
that he was exposed. She was probably the.
person mentioned by the duke, as the possessor
of the secrets which were disclosed ; and the
duke's anger might proceed from the suspicion
that she had betrayed them. It may be ob-
seived, tbat the ·name of .the officer is not
mentioned by Lord Clarendon, though other
writer& indeed call him Towersou, and othera
Towse•.
Upon the whole, the author is inclined to
eon8ider the dream as the inveation of affec-
tionate credulity ; as also that of the Countess
of Denbigh, the duke's sister, who is reported
to. have dreamed, that as she passed through a
field with her brother in his coach, she
·heard. a sudden shout of the pe_ople, and on
• Vid. Peck in Desid. Curios. Nichol's Leiceswnbire1
nl. iii. p. !08, and Gent. 1\lagaz. for Dec. 1801. Tho '
arrative was first mentio~d in Lilly's 1\Ionarchy or No
Konarchy,
It
18
inquiring the reason, was told that it was for
joy that the Dllke of Buckingham wu sick..
She had · scarcely related this dream, it is
added,. to her gentlewoman, than the Bishop
of Ely came to inform her of the duke's
cleath.
There is a remarkable relation in Burnet'•
Account of the Life and Death of John Earl
ef Rochester. The chaplain, we are told, of
the Lady Warre, the mother-in-law of the·
Earl, had a dream which informed him that on .
111ch a day he llhonld die, but beiag ·by aH the
family put out of the· belief of it, -be bad
almost forgotten it ; untiU the evening before
the day which had been mentioned, there being
at 11upp~r thirteen at table, according to a fond
conceit that one of them must die, one of thO"
young ladies pointed to him that he was to be
the person ; ht> remembering his dream fell
into some disorder, and the Lady Warre re-
proving him for his superstition, he said that
he was confident that he was to die before~
moruing, but he being in perfect health it waa
19
not much minded, It was cin Saturday night,
and be was to preach next day, .he went up to-
his chamber and sat up late_, as appeared by
the burning of his candle, and he had been
preparing his notes for his sermon, but was
1
found dead in his bed .the next morning. There
can be no doubt that the earl, conversing under
very serious sentiments, believed the relation
which he gave to its reporter ; but it is possible
that be might have heard the story from friends
more solicitous for his reformation, than for a
scrupulous adherence to truth. There is, cer-
tainly, some slight appearance of inconsistency
in the story ; but admitting it to be strictly
true, it only 21ee0lll to furnish one amon~ many
instances of the danger of exciting or yielding
to superstitious impressions. The chaplain
having dreamt that he should die, and been
led by the inconsiderate remark of the young
l'ady to be struck a second time with that con-
viction, probably fell a victim to his terrors.
I~ it were a divine dream, it seems not to have
had any adequate object, unless indeed we
suppose it to have been- designed to awakeu
20
reflection, and a belief in the superior nature
of the soul, as we find it contributed to make
the Earl of Rochester believe that the soul
was a substance distinct from matter.
Lord Lytteltoo, the son of the historian,
whose ardent imagination might have kindled
into terrors when he reflected on his vicious
life, is said to have been scared by forebodings
which probably occasioped his death ; others
conceive him to have 'put an end to hirt own
existence, agreeably to a prediction which he
had made.
· Mr. Toole, the distinguished comedian, is
related to have had a presentiment of Ius
death, which was, probably, nothing but a
gloomy fear resulting from ill health, and en-
creased on the prospect of his departure from
_England. Such anticipations are but the sug-
gestions ofalarm, or the feelings ofapproachinc
dissolution. As all men die, and all think on
the subject of death with the deepest interest,
it is not extraordinary that some should dream
il
about it at critical periods, and foresee ita ap-
proach.
Captain Ricliard Hutten's ship, 011 the 6th
of January 170I, struck on the Caskets near
Aldemey, and stoved to pieces ; the master
and six of the men were drowned, and nine
m~ saved. The masts falling upon the rocks,
some being on the shrouds fell with it and
swung themselves on by part of the other
·rigging ; not having secured any bread they
subsisted fourteen days OJlthe ship's dog which
they eat raw, and on limpets and weeds that
gcew on the rocks. They had once sight of
the Express, Advice boat, but were not per-
ceived by its crew. About the 18th or 19th
.one T.askard's son, apprentice of a master of
a ship at Lymington, dreamed that he was
taking up several men about the Caskets, and
told it to his father, but he took no notice of
it ; but on the 20th set sail in his bark from
Guemsey bound fur Southampton, and when
-be came in view of the Caskets, the boy
l'emembering his dream, looked eame11tly upon
them, and told his father he taW men upon the
Caskets, his father chid and contradicted liim ;
h!lt on the boy's persisting, discovered by his
gloss one man on the rock waving his cap, upon
which he steered and came to anchor on the
leeward of the rock, it being a great sea; be
took them all into his boat, and brought tbem
·safe to Southampton •. The author is not
aware upon what authority this is relared.
It is reht.ted of Dr. Harvey, who was one of
tbe college Gf physicians, that upon setting off
on his travels to Padua, he shewed on his
arrival at Dover his pass, but was detained hy
the go\"emor without any reason being assigned.
The packet sailed without him and was lost,
and next day the news reached Dover. It is
added that the doctor was unknown to the
governor, but that the night before the arrivd
of Dr. Harvey the governor had a perfect
vision of him, with warning to stop him as he
* Nocturnal Revels, p. 97,
ialenoed the doctor. The authority uvoa-
~·hicb tbia account aJao is given is not known w
the author.
A diaipated penon .is related to have beeu
converted .by the imprel!llion of a dream, in
which he imagined that he was rescued from a
pit in which he was about to sink when sportin'
with some companiona who were revelling with
him, and whom he supposed to represent the
1Wlty, pleasures which endangered his safety : .
•• For pleuare'a but • kind of 1l'llllton stream
TJ.at earries men to hell as in a dream.;,
Some of the dreams which have been prO:.
duced appear to ·come to us on authorities so
respectable, and to have had a tendency so
beneficial, that they present certainly some
excuse for credulity on this subject. The
author would be nnwilling to invalidate any .
impression that might tend to keep alive a sense
ot God's moral govemment ; he is hims~lf
fully convinced Qf the care and particular pr~
-vidence of God watching over individualt~, and
does not mean to deny the agency and super-
intendency of angels appointed over every man,
an opinion which seems to derive some counte-
nance from our Saviour's words,. when he
speaks of the angels of children who beheld.
the face of God in Heaven •. He is aware
also that it may possibly be contended that the
promise of Joel witb re!!pect to dreams and
visions, W1l8 not expressly restricted to any
particular period of the Gospel ; but, . not-
withstanding, he cannot but adhere to the
conviction that .revelations no longer continue
to be imparted by dreams, subscribing to a
remark of the great Bacon, that they ought all
to be despised, and ought to serve but for
wiater's talk by the fire-side: "though," con-
tinues this great writer, " when I say despised,
I mean it as for belief, for otherwise the
spreading and publishing them is in no sort to
bedespised,for they have done much mischief."
" Matt. xviii. 1.
They may, as Mr. Dacier observes, be com.
pared to the stories of an avowed liar which.
casually may be true; we have, ho,vever, no
criterion by which to judge whether they may
bear auy affinity to remote events, and it is
:nta8Gllable to pretUme that they do not by 11111
couc:6rted appointmeat, since God caDDOt be
ampposed to have desigued to barau u• with
fruitless premonitions, and to distract our
·minds with fallacious I)Dlbiguities. They may
still, however, be ~derstood to be designed
for great moral purpoaea." affording subject
for reflection, in a point of view in which ·.
they will be conidmld. a aome llloceedinc
daapter.
• <U.:H. c.
16
CHAPTER XIII.
GElfERAL REFLECTIONS ON SLEEP AND
DREAIIIllfG, WITH R.EFERENC,E TO SOME.
RIIXARKABLB ACCOUNTS.
• Next bow eoft sleep o'er all spreads tbougbtless rest.''
,. And frees from anxious care the troubled breast."
Creech'• Lucm. B. 4.
IN what t'he author has ~vanced in the pre-
ceding chapters, he has not presumed pe-,
remptorily to determine that dreams for great
and important purposes may not have bee!l
inspired without reference to' the evidence of
revealed religion.
He has designed, however, to intimate as
his opinion, that dreams, in general, are not
to be considered as having any necessary con-
nection with futurity, and that ce~taioly oo
!7
~eneral ground of confidence in them is esta~
blished.
Considering then ordinary dreams as the
uninspired productions of the human mind, he-
proceeds to enter into a slight discussion of
.. -
their general nature, adverting to such causes
as 'may reasonably be assigned for, and calcu-
lated to explain them.
In treating of such dreams, it is- obvioul
that be speaks of those representations only
which are addressed to the mind, in sleep, in
a state of suspension of the corporeal powers ;
and he regards these as comprehending what-
ever is the object of our thoughts in sleep, ·and
not merely in the restricted definition of Ma-
crobius, who considers a dream as " that which
covers with figures, and Vf:ils in mysteries," a
signification that can be understood only by
interpretation. The dreams of whi~b he speak~
result from the exertion of the mental faculties~
and include -as well those that a:re of obyibu!J
and direct import, as· those which are enigma-
c ~.
------···
28
tjcal and fiJUrative ; and, in short, every s.peciet
that does not involve the idea of inspiration.
On a general reftec:tion that dreenu take
place when the bod)' is inactive and dormant,
it may be expedient to examine alittle into the
nature of sleep, which is one of the most
remarkable regulations of Providence, and
intimately connected with some of the groat
arrangements of his appointment, who has
1' established day and nig\It for a perpetual
ordi~ance;" the latter for slec:p, which.u well
described as rc Natme's soft DAJne," as that
which
·." knits up the ra•ell'd sleeve ef can,
Tile birth of llllch day's life, 1ore labour's bath,
Balm of hurt mind1, &\'flat nature'• "coJtd cou,...e,
Chief nonrisher in life's feut *."
As indeed it is the fostering and gentle so other
ofhuman cares and infirmities, the guardian of
that repose in which the preservation of the
• Maebetb.
human frame is c - If.sleep be con-
sidered.in abstract , it is certain that
notwithstanding the effects which we experience
from it in recruited strength and renovated
spirits, it is a state of apathy; if considered
~reparately from dreams, it is a suspension of
~e mental as well as of the corporeal powers•;
it is a seeming prelude of deatht however
salubrious in supporting life, and the senses,
though capable of being roused, are closed in
insensibility ; it appears to loosen the links ol
eonoection which subsist between the soul and
body without breakio~ the chain.
" lt is death'• counterf'eit,
We- in it as pusing to our former atate
lllleDiible. and forthwith to diWKJlve t."
• Joh01011'a Diet. fol. ed.
t 'Tnoc h 5-a'MII'DC 'I'IC ~c weAn·
. ~.,., h ...,... ''"" " .,."' '"'·
Diveraorum ,.,......
*Puadilc Loat. :B. "Viii. L 190.
c 8
80
"It is," says Sir Thomas Brown," a death
whereby we live, a middle moderating point
between life and death, and so like death, I
dare not trust it \\·ithout my prayers, and an
half adieu unto the world, and take my fare-
well in a colloquy with God. After which I
close my eyes in security, content to take my
leave of him, and sleep w1to the resurrection• :•
. .Thomas Tryon, a student in physick in the
last century, defines sleep to be the natural
rest of a living creature, or a partial temporary
cessation of animal action, and the functions
of the external senses, caused immediately by
the weakness Qf the animal faculty proceeding
from a steep and stupifying vapour, arising
from the concoction and digestion of the ali-
mentary fooq exhaled from. the stomach, a~<J
hence ascending to the brain, and watering
and bedewing it with unctions fumes, whereby
the operation of the senses is for a time ob-
structed,. io the end the powers of the mind
• Religio Medici. B.-ii. f. 1:1.
31
·and bOdy· may be recruited, refreshed,. and
strengthened. ·
Sleep as it is a state of exemption from
impressions from external objects, can occasion
no positive sensations of pain or pleasure,
unless by the aid of dreams. If during sleep
we are safe and tranquil, yet,. as insensible of
our security, we derive no satisfaction from it.
To enjoy advantages we must be conscious
that we possess them, aild the only conseiolii-
DeSS which.we have in sleep is a consciousness
of the existence of the ideal objects whick
eur imagination creates in dreams, for when.
-the senses are so 11trongly affected by external
·impl't'ssions as ·to produce sensations on the
mind, sleep_is disturbed, and ifno impressions
.continue we awake.
To the unhappy sleep may indeed be con-
sidered as good, inasmuch as it intermits the
agonies of pain, and closes the wounds of
millery ; if it bring no joys, it at least suspends
c 4
·eerrow, he ..mo tnOOIW ..en tlmt tlat!!nklell
ingratitude which is " sharper than a iiiBrpeot..
tooth" forgets the anguish of his soul in sleep,
-which, like the medicated wine of Circe, in-
duees a cessation of IOI'IQW IRd pasaioA, 8IICl
a forgetfumea of all erils. 1'he tear is dt
leut b some ~ dtooked, the sigh _,..
pi'Uied.
As the will seems to exercise.Iittle influence
over dle powe.-. of tile mind or body in eleep,
·tbouglt it oceuionally eMFt a eontrol O.er
them, the cltaraeter of Bleep mast take its «:Mt
from die nawre of ate dteams wbieh eecur ;
and in this ~tate ol ideal e5isteoce me iRdtl
whote waking thoughte revel ia festifity may
·piueunder imaginary distress,while tbe wretched
and depreased may enjoy the cheerful BeenelJ of
pi'OIIperity. The sovereign whose tiviftg brows
are encircled with a diadem may see himself
- 11 despoiled of the pride of k~y 9W'Iry'' till
the early emwtiers attend his lev.ee. The em-
h8J1'811sed debtor may be restored to o~nce,
83
and the wretched exile return to the lMld of-his
affection'.
In. general, however, Oll1" reflections in sleep
are regulated by certain law• of association,
and the predominant complection w\1ich dis-
tinguishes the mind when awake, continues to
spread its influence over our waking tho:ughts..
" Whateve~ love nl burnished llliU obtailu.
Of.chariots whirliug o'er the dusty plains,
Whatenr care to feed the glollly steeds
By day prevails, again by night succeeds•."
Or u the idea is expressed by Garth :
' .
" The slumb'ring chief'a of painted trinmphs dream,
While groves and streams are the soft virgin'• theme t.'•
The " memory retains the colouring of the
dayf', which fades only by insensible transi-
tions. In times of prosperity
• VirgiL B. vi, Qu111 gratia curri!JII, ~o.
t See Dispensary.
*Walpolc'a Mystenou. Motber.
c j
" Glorious clre111111 ataDd ready to ratore
The pleaaiag abapes o_f all we saw before •."
In scenes of sorrow, as Job pathetically com-
plained, the atBictions end not with the day;.
6' when I say my bed shall comfort me, my
couch shall ease my complaint, then thou.
ecarest me with dreams, and terrifiest me
through visions t ;" and Plutarch has expressed
a similar sentiment, saying, " when grief takes
me sleeping I am disturbed by dream11t·" .
To the coward conscience and guilty re-
lections, of .that murderer ~f innocent sleep;
andof Richard, "the dreadful ministerof heJ!,"
the night, could bring but perturbation and
ahadowy terrors, rendering that by which
wearied nature was to revive a rude state of
'Dryden.
t Job vii. l4. 15. So Cict'.ro, Cura opprasi. animi .vel
corporis ai~e fertun111, qualis vi(!ilantem fatiga~erit talem se
i!lprit dormienti. De Divin. Lib. i. C. 3.
*:Platan:h• .,,. •r•"'ua -~
85
disquietude shattering the human frame, \Vhile
like Rufinus they might see
" Dire ahade~ illosive fleet before the mind
Of Jnen by him to cruel death consigned*·"
The passions which are ruftled cannot be
instantly calmed, and these agitations which
impress the mind continue long to tluctuate
with an impulse which resembles the dead
waves that succeed a storm, subsiding only by
slow and imperceptible degrees;
As the tide of our retlection." is only changed
by a gradual recess after we sink into repose, '
eo the influence of dreams is often felt beyond
the period of their continuance ; ·we wake
with chearfulness if we have been exhilarated
in slumber, and the joy which cometh in the
morning requires- time to disperse the clouds of
solicitude. Sleep, however, thQugh it some..
times admits imag~s to harass the mind, yet
• Claad. in~ofio. L. ii.
c 6'
in pneral serves to renew an impaired m~,
and to recruit our ohaustelll .nits; ad eve11
when it is most interrupted and disturbed by
visionary disquietudes, it still administers to
the support of the human constitution. Natura-
cannot long subsist unless invigorated by its
relief, it must collapse or be fretted to an
irritation which wifl drive the symp'lrthetic ~ind
to insanity, if it experience not occasionally its
aolace and recruiting aid.
The necessity of -de~p results {rom tht> ae-
~ciency ef the quantity and mobility of the_
spirits occasioned by the corurressure of the
nerves, and by the coHapsing of the nervous
pam which convey th1, spirits from their
fountain in the common sensory to circulate to
aU parts of the body •. As this necessity
becomes more urgent in proportion to the
fatigue of the body, we find that often white
it refuses to weigh down the eyelids of royalty
" In the perfumed cbamben of the great,
AM flHI'-d with l!Mftlis'tlf -aweeteet melot!y;
• Halllll"'a i'hysiolos.
,.,
"Upon the high and giddy mast
Seal up tbe llMp bey's eyes, and JOCk bit bflliw.
Ia cn10Je ei tht ru•o imperilnls IDJge."
Sleep also is jutly copsidered es dae world~
be&& medicine, repairing the wuta and lulliuc
the disquietudes of uatnre, carrying oH the
gross liumours of tbe body by perspintioo,
and refreshiug its debilitaiecl powers. It is I(J·
favOurable and restorative to uatw-e, that some
animala which sleep in the wmter,. as hews are
supposed to do under the 110ow,grow fat tbouJh
the.y .-e deprived of food ; aud swallows, bats,
and maDy•orta.of W&ects which eqjoy a kiud of ·
alternation af sleep-extended to a long period,
lll'e pr-esen<ed in that ltltte uoder circumatallee.
io which tbey oouW not -e.x.ilt when awake.
Some writers represent sleep to be subser-
Jieol to the .JUolte&~WCe -of vegetable life, oon-
~eiviug that tbe plav.ts which close with the
night, and open in the morning, derive benefit
.from a state of rest.analo;o01 to slumber; and
88
all animated nature may be conceived to requu-.,
repose, while unceasing .vigilance may be
regarded as the exclusive attribute of God
" who slumbereth not..!' The quantity of sleep
which is sufficient for the purposes of well
mstained life varies with the constitution of the
individual, and depends on the proportion of'
fatigue which he endures, and the quantity of'
nourishment which he receives. It may be
protracted indefinitely, and during its continu-
ance the vital flame appears scarcely to waste
its supplies ; if we may credit some ltt:counts
which are furnished to us, and which represent
lethargic persons to have been so absorbed in
uninterrupted sleep for weeks, and even years,
as to require no su1tenance, and to suffer so
little change or consumption of the animal
vigor, that the " eye was not dimmed, nor the'
natural force abated •."
Diogenes Laertius represents Epimenides, a
distinguished philosopher of Crete, to have
• Bac:<in.
lllept iifty.one yean in a cave, dnring whiclt
time if he had any dreams he could not after.:.
wards recall them, and when he awaked he
with difficulty ·recollected the city of his re-
sidence, and could scarcely persuade his younger
brother to recognise him*. This accotmt may
probably be suspected from his connection with
Cretan history, the Abbe Barthelemy represents
it to import only that Epimenides passed the
first years of his youth in solitude and silent
meditation. There, are many other relations,
however, which prove that sleep may be con-
tinued without injury to the human constitution
certainly to a much longer period than the body
could subsist without food in a waking state t•
Aristotle and Plutarch t speak of the nurse of
one Timon who slept two months without any
indication of life. Marcus Damascenus re-
• Diogenes Lantios, Epimen, L i. l'lin. Hiat. Nat. L,
Tii. c.5. P· 284.
t Introduct. aa Voyage de Ia Grece. l'aUSIIllias, L. i.
C.14. p. 85.
t Plutarch. Sympcis. L viii. Qu:.iat. !),
...
40
preseata a German nutic to have slept UDder aa
hay-rick through a whole autumn aod winter"'
tiU on the removal of the hay be awoke
half dead and utterly dillb'acted •. Crantzius
mentions a scholar at U.beck in the time of
Gregory the Eleventh, who slept seven yeam
without any apparent chaoge t· The moat
JDelllorable account, however, is that of tho
~even per80118 of Ephesus, who are reported
to have slept providentially in a cave to whit9b
they bad retired, from the time of the perseca-
tion under Decius till the 80th year of Tbeo-
closius. Tbe cave, it i» said, is still sbewn at
Ephe8U8, and the remains of a chapel erected
to their memory t· Tbe8e were the seven
famous sleepers whose reputation ill certainly
aoriwlled in hiltory. But though the aCCOUDt
be sanctioned iD some Greek homilies, and in
the Korau, many incredulous people have
• Zuing. Theat. voL ii. L. 5. p. 415.
t Craut.. Vandal. L. viii. C. 39. IIIUI other autbaritiel ia
Wanley'a Wooden.
*Ricaut'• Hist•. f!f the Greek Cburdl.
41
·stumbled at ·tile marvellous relation, rmd con-
. Mler it as a fiction Gf the martyrologists.·TheN
is however perhaps nothing more inexplicable
in men's sleeping 196 years • d11m in their
eleepiog six, we how net at what limits to
stop, and may remark as W88 once done oa the
•bject Of St. Denys's walking a great way
without his llead, La distaaee a'y fait rieli, c'est
1e premier pae qui cwte.
UJMMl tiHe 110bjed: it rmry be wordt while to
Retice a 'fef"J estnloRiinary acoouat which was
drawn up by Mr. Gualtier at the reqllellt of the
.Kih« of Swedell, ad wbieh ia inserted in.the
.Memoirs of the Aaldem, of .Berlin. The case
alluded to is that of a woman of the name of
Guasser, ·who was a&cted a,.y a kind ef cata-
lepsy which attacked her t\\'ice a day, durins
which she sunk into a prolountt sleep, and waa
deprived of aH internal aud exremat sensation,
her limbs grew bard and inflexible like stone, a.
* li'ieepll. Kilt. ·Eeets. L -dr, C. 4f; SeMI.
.little pulse was discernible, and her respiration
continued as free aa in her natural sleep : she
appeared to have no feeling though her fteah
was scarified. The fit came on regularly e7ery
m?rning at a very early hour, and ceased about
twelve o'clock by a gradual and convulsive .
recovery of the use of the limbs, which allowed
her jbat time to take refreshments, when she
again relapsed into sleep, which continued till
eight o'clock, from which time she remained
awake till eight o'clock in the morning. It
was remarkable that this disorder sometimes
lasted six months, 110metimes a year, and at
last two years and a half (during the latter part
of which time the paroxysm returned but once
a day) after wl1ich period a correspondent
interval of healtb always intervened. During
the continuance of her malady she was married,
and brought to bed of two or three children,
,who were not affected by her .complaint ; she
lived many years after the last attack, and
haviug attained the age of eighty, died in 1746,
of a disorder which had no apparent connection
with this periodical affectioo1 which is supposed
48
~o have originated in some irregularity of con-
stitution encreased by exposure to wet in an
endeavour to escape from a persecution in
France.*'.
: The case of Colonel ToW118hend, mentioned
by Dr. Cheyne, was also very remarkable ; he
had for many years been affected with a ne-
phritic complaint, and had the power of dying
or .expiring when he pleased, and afterward of
coming to life again at pleasure, a proof of
which Dr. Cheyne, Dr. Baynard, and Mr.
Skrine, had at Bath, 'vhere after composing
himself deliberately on his back, the pulse of
the colonel gradually became insensible, no
motion of the heart was perceptiWe, nor any
symptom of life to be discerned, a mirror held
to his mouth being not even soiled by his
breath ; he continued in this state near half an
hour, and then gradually recovered t.
• Considerations sur un Sommeil extrnordinaire, Mem.
de l'Academ. de Berlin.
t Cheyne's English Malad. Wanley'a Wonders. Ch. i.
This relation remiada us of the account
tiveo by St. Austin of Restitutus, a P.-byter,
who could at pleMUJe depriYe himself of aD
sense in a state of apparent death, in which he
seemed not to breathe, and .was not affected
by ay pnseot senutions eveil from fire, though
he profeued to hear very loucl voices•.
Cardan, the famous physiciaa and astrologer
of Pavia, tells us among other ext:raorc~mar,
thinp of hiauelf, tbat he could at any time
faD into aa utasy. and bad only a faint and
indistinct heariug of tbolle wbo convened,
becoming iollelllible of the gout, and eve.-,
elber paint.
But 80Dle reports are lltill more surprising.
A whole people of Lucomoria, a country of
* August. de Cirit. Dei. L xiY. C. 14.
t CardiUI de Varietat. Rer. L. viii. C. 48. p. 10S. Sca-
li!er infOrms us that Cardan abstaiued from food to ...erify
the prediction which he had uttered of his death, aa did
..10 :Robert 8ultOD lllld Bayle.
45
farther Sarmatia, are related to die oa ·the-
twenty-seventh of November like swallaws, ill
«:OPSeCJilence of the intense cold, and not tQ
awake again till the twenty-fourth gf ~ril•.
These wooderfillsuspensions ofthe corporeal
powers must be cons~dered as more than com-
mon trances, such as those by which Barton,
the maid o( Kent, could absorb her faculties,
or than such extasies as Mr. Locke describea
to be dreaming with the eyes open t·
'The notion of a trance with the eyes open
appears very early to hawe been couoected witb
the idea of div.ine viaians:j:, aud it seems in
modern times to have been imagined, that the
lleD8e8 of those who are entranced leave the
body, and are occupied m acquiringthe know-
ledge of things secret an.d remote.
• Wanley'a Wonden, C. uiY. p. 6!7.
t Euay on the Unden. B. ii. Ch. i, §. S.
t Numb. :W.... 4.
46
After the marvellous accounts which have
been here produced, it must be an insipid
relation to mention that Baker speaks of a
William Foxley who fell asleep on Tut>sday in
Ea11ter week, and could not be awakened even
with pinching and burning till the first day of
next term, which was full fourteen days •.
These relations, it may be incidentallyobserved,
prove the necessity of caution in not buryin1
persons prematurely.
The circumstances under which epileptic
persons have been known to think and act as if
waking, and even to address other persons iri
long and connected discourses, are deserving of
philosophical investigation.
There are other accounts of an opposite
nature equally remarkable. Seneca reports that
M12eenas lived three years without any sleep,..,
• :Baker's Cbron. p. -118. -
47
and was at last cured of his distemper by soft
music•.
Nizolins is related to have lived thirty-five
years without sleep t.
The modem account of the woman of Padua,
who lived :fifteen days without sleep, will easily
he credited by those who receive the former.
histories.
It is to be observ~, that in these accounts
uo mention is made of dreams having been
enjoyed. by the persons thus subjected.to the
dominion of )forpheus, and it is doubtful ·
whether we are to consider dreams as neces-
sarily attendant on sleep.
Herodotus asserts of the Atlantes, the in- ·
habitants of Mount Atlas, that they neither
- eat animal food nor dream. Lode professes to
• De·ProvidentiA.
t Sc:kellk'a Obaernt. L. i. p. M.
hPe aeea • 1Mb wllo, thauAia bit memery w.s··
by ao means defective, &lJsured him thatheW
Dever dreamt till after a fever which affected
bim about the tMeoty-:Dah or tweaty-silitb year
of his age ; and Plutarch mentiona his fritmd
Cleon, who though he had attained a great age,
hM never dmllllelll, and 111fB that the saDie
was neord~ of T:hrasymeoes. his possible,·
J.wever, that these plftODI had dreamed,
though the impression made on their mind
might have been so slight as not to excite any
reco1lection. Amslotle oblerYes, that those
who Dever dream till growa. ap are ganentllJ'
liaWe after their eapeDIIIDCe of dJie kind to
same ebantJe .of consiimtion, a remark con.. ·
fiamecl b)' Bedie, who pNf_,s to J.we
known a gentleman w.llo ne.er. dJnmed )lot
when his health was disordered. The habit of
draiuniiJg, however;, pre'ftlili so genendly, that
it ma.y be considered u an <*linary·exercise of
the human mind) and .ifll tsdiag ro pro¥e·ita
inherent powers of reftef;ti<>n.; aud it ia .pro-
bable that if the mind is capable of being·
entirely quiescent, it ~tlly ceues to abiok
ltowever its thoughts may sometimes be for..
gotteu as speedily as they arise. Clem-
Aleundrinllll deemed an entire quiescence to
be a ~eath of the soul. Mr. Locke's argument
that it is not euential to the soul to think,
because it does not always dream*, is founded
apon an argument which is at least disputable,
for though it may be allowed that the mind
cannot think without being lleRSible that it does
think, it need not necessarily be admitted that
it doe11 not always dream, because it cannot
recal its dreams when awake, or becaUlle it
4oes not even rem~mber that it has dreamed ;·
since it might be conscious of its reftections
whea the body was asleep, though no recol-
lection of them be retained at the retum.o£
morning, which instantly presents ne\v scenes
to the eyes, and excites new and stronger im-
pressions 60 the mind. The volur,tary opera-
tions of the mind seem to cease during sleep,
• Loclce's Euay on the Haman Understanding, B. ii.
'C. i. §.1. Watts's.l:11aya, p. UJ. A!Utot. de lusoma.
llobbes's Leviathan, B. ii. C. 45..
VOL,JI,
•
50
• that the mind becomes in great measpre
puiive, and ,,re can seldom discern any ac.
carate·recollection or powers of reaaoniug.
" Ebon nigbt iJ no log!c:ian•.''
¥any thiugs which did occur in sleep, !U)d.
inany thiog.'f which strike the .mind when we
~re awake, escape almost iwtaotly from the
~emory, and are not recollected till perchance
some ,:emote event recall them to ow- remem-
brance : so likewise. drunken persoos often
forget the events and actions which took place
during their intoxication ; and with respect to
~reams, Nebucbadnezzar forgot his dream tiU
Daniel recalled it to his mind t.
. Dreams, though sometimes forgotten almost
as soon as framed, are not to be considered as
~eless: they_ may serve to exercise the faculties
a':ld improve the temper of the mind, which
* 1\fyetcrions 1\lother.
t Dan. ii, 5. •
.11
m:ty deriVe profit from the eoolelhplation of
successive images, but could receiYe no ad-
vantage from apathy.
Incoherent as they are, they enable us on
reconsideration to 1nltch the temper Gf the
lfiind, to regard its predominant affections, and
~o note its undisguised propensities ; and they
who are disposed to correct any mischievous
tendencies, may be assisted thereby in diS-
c:overing where it may be done with mO.'It
benefit and eifeet.
Zeno ~'llS of opinion, that every une might
form a judgment of his advaocemeat in virtu~
from his dreams, since if he found himself not
pleased with any tliing disgraceful and unjust,
but his powers of mind enlightened by reason,
shining out for the reflection of pure images,
like a placid and waveless sea, he might have
ground for self approbation •; on the other
• Plutlilch. Wyttenbadl, vol. ii. p. 316.
• 2
52
hand, if in sleep the mind seemed readily to
yield itself to vicious passions, there must be -
much cause for vigilance.
It was upon a similar conviction that Diony-
sius inSicted the punishment of death on Mar-
ayas. for having dreamt that be bad cut the ty-
rant's throat, being persuaded that it must have
formed the subject of his waking thoughts*.
'When we are awake, as Plutarch has observed,
if vice peeps out, it accommodates itself to
the opinion of men, and is abashed ; and veil-
ing its passions, it does not entirely give up
itself to its impulse, but restrains BRd contends
with it, but in sleep flying beyond opinions and
laws, and transgressing all modesty and shame,
it excites every lust and stin up its evil pro-
pensities, aiming even at the most dreadful
crimes, and enjoying illegal things and images
which terminate in no pleasure, but promote
disordert. It is observable, however, that
• Plutarch. Dionye.
t Plut. wt. i. p. 398. Edit. WyttenbaQ.
ss
when the passions operate to excess in dreams,
the mind is affected with a .sense of conscious
guilt, the inftuence of which throws a gloom
over the waking thought:! ; and Plato was of
opinion that the mind might be so subjected to
the influence of reason, as not even in sleep
to be carried away by any vicious desires~
The mind appears to entertain some idea of
the length' of time that the body has slept,
though probably this is from a consideration of'
circumstances when it awakes, since its esti-
mate does not seem to depend upon the suc-
cession of images which it has contemplated J
and if sleep is extended to any unusual length
of time, no accurate idea of the time elapsed
is preserved, as a person who had slept for a
week is known to have fancied that he had
alept only one night.
CHAPTER XIV.
019' THE lfA.T11RB AND EFFICIENT CAUSE OP
DREAMS,
The mind mjoya this prerogative and honouraltle di&-
tiactiou. that it c:an perform many thiap IJyita OWJJ powers;
IJut the body can eft'ect nothing but b7 the illlpulae ani
1111ggestion of the mind.-Leviuu Lemmiw de OcC~Alt. Nllt.
Jlimc:, L. f. C.l!. H~~e tamer~ prcrogoli~~«. fc.
Aa dreams usaaUy obtain wbeo t~·tJeDses are
dosed agaios~ external objecta, they must be
eoDSidered as the work of the mind, sketche~
of the fancy~ deriving its m~ri-'s and o~ta
from experience. It is the pr~emioeot glory
of the mind that it caD thus subsist, as it were,
in a separate state, independently of the body,
which in none of its regular functions, is re-
moved from the superinteodance and control
bi the miud.
55'
It is ~rue, that whatever. ideas the mind
may enjoy are originally acqu~_ Jhrougll
the senses before they become ililliJ in for•
getfulness, all of them being formed from
the observation of earthly circumstances, and
not appearing to be innate. The images;
however combined in extravsgant pictures,
and in whatever manner acquired, are com-
posed of the representations ·of real ob-
jects, and are ealled up at pleasure· ·by the
mind, and if we should admit what Mr. FoN
mey •, after WoUius, bas asserted, that nery
dream originates· in some. liellllltion, yet. the
independent energies of the. mind are lllffici•
eutly displayed in the presenation of tbe sue..
cessiv~ phantoms, and in the contiiWBDce of
reftection long after the sensation is excited:
The scenes which pa88 in review before us io
sleep are 10metimes composed of images
wbic;h are. produced imruediately by corporeal
impressions, not sufficiently strong to destroy
the eacbantment of sleep. Beattie speaks oi
• Essai en Me~~;~o de l'.Academ. de Beiliu. Toau, ii. p. 16. .
D 4
56
a gentleman in the army, whose imaginafiou.
was 10 easily aft'ected in sleep by impressions
made on the external senses, that his _com-
panions could ~~~ggest uy thing to it by whis-
pering gently in his ear; and that they once
made him go through the wllole procedure of
a duel till be was wakened by report of a
pistol.
Dreams are, ho\Ve'fer, more often prodUced
by sensation or motion of the brain, excited
when we were awake, and colltinued,agreeably
to the opinion of Aristotle, after the removal
of the objec:t. . Although the powers of the
mind are 110t limited to the contemplation of
the image first introduced, but range in the
wide scope of their observation 1io the view of.
every particular with which they are acquainted,
and call llp in the concatenation of their re-
Jections, often exteuding to the most remote
and forgotten images long since committed to-
the memory. Hem~e it is that we are so little-
able to trace any affinity between the subjects
of our dreams and the sensations of recent
impression. The links which connect the sue·
cessive ideas of the mind, either waking or
sleeping, being in general so imperceptibly
fine, as to be traced with difficulty.
Allowing then that dreams are sometimes
prompted by immediate or.recent sensations,
they must in general be considered as the crea-
tion of the mind, «misting, as it were, in an
abstracted 11tate, though still capable of being
easily summoned to attention to the body.
The sympathy and reciprocal· influence which
aubsist between them are never destroyed, and
the mutual interchange of feeling i~t quickly
communicated. There is perhaps never a total
insensibility ; the moment when vigilance sinks
into oblivious indifference can never be accu·
rately marked ; no one, at least, hath ever yet
noted the moment which precedes sleep. The
connexion between mind and body is rene\ved
on the slighte;t alarm, and unusual impressions
are instantly conveyed from one to the other.
The hungry body suggests· to the sleeping mind
ll) 5
tl.ions of fOod". Opp.-euionl from repletioo
generate fearful dream&, and a dis_OI'dered limb,,
jf its p!tio ill~, will attract attention.
Dugald Stewart observes- that dreams are fre--
CJUently suggested by bodily sensations, and
states, that be W been \old by a ~, that
la~ing oecasioo, in coasequence of ao 'in~
positioq_, 1o apply a bottle of hot water to I.Wf
ket wheJJ )le went to lted, he ~eamed that he
Will makiog a j~..-oey. to the top (){ Mo•
lEtDa, 111d that be fouad the heat o{ tbe
ground almoet ~portable.. .Another per-
•on, having blister& appliefl to hill li.ead.
dreamed, il) the as!fociation of ideas, U..t he-
111.88 scalpeci by a party of Indians t.
• It may perf1aps be said, tbut when the hungry man
dreaml, it • rather the elfect of the -ollection or hia-
wJ!r.iPg tlwughtt. Tbete a.-. still, howe"'r,.•aBiciellt· proofr
of a,yrnparhy. An ancient wriit:r attributes dreams to the·
immediate temperament of tire body. Hi qo~ laborant siti·
eum in BGporem venerout,·llumina et fontes videre sibi vi•
antur,et bibere..-hoc autem pariunfur aviditate iutemperata
torporiA l¥10J!lntea. l\4!.cog. Clem. L. ii.- §, M.
t E&emealll· of' the Philosophy ef the bumau Miod, C•.,..
!i9
Considering dl'eaDls tlaeo princip.lly as tf1e
production of the,mind 1111Wil8bDg ell-its OWil
..stores:,we perceive that the imagioatioat is. ever
in a state of v.igilance ; tltat it can paint·81Nl
recall to its own view those acenes of nature
and of life which it hath admired; ad theugb
•the corporeal eye be closed_, yet
" not the more oease
To wander where the Museshaunt,
Clear spring, orshady grove, or aunnj bill.11
That the mind retains it. full aad native
energies in sleep, its powen of memory, and
of reasoning, is evident from the circum..
lltaDoes of somnambules, · or sleep-walker.a, i~
whim the will directs the· body, though in a
state of somnolency, oftea guiding it &y an
accurate recollection of accustomed circum..
stances and local particum, and acting, as: it
aeems,. by its own vigour as an ethereal spirit
moving a passive machine. It then appears
indeed· ·capable of performing son1e things
better than "ben its attention is diverte~ by
.the senses to external objects ; it seems left t&
D6
60
its own reflections., and free ·to apply to its
owq views. In some of these cases it has
been known to solve difficulties better than
when awake, as in the instance of the man
mentioned by Heoricus ab Heeres, of whom
it is related, that wheu youug, being a pro-
feSIIOr of a distinguished university, and en-
gaged in the composition and improvement
of verses, he has been known, after being
dissatisfied with his labours in the day, to have
risen in the night, to have opened his desk, and
to have written and composed, reading ·aloud
his production, and applauding himself with
satis&ction and laughter, and ilometimes calling
to his chamber-fellow to join in hi.& com-
mendation: after which be bas been observed
to arrange his papers and shut up his desk~
and then undress and retire to bed, and sleep.
till the momiog, wben he retained no recoi-
lection of the transaction of the night*.''
• Hcmricus ab Heerea Obsetvat. Medic. L. i. Ob~. t.
p. S!,!IS. Wllllle1'1 Wonden,p.ofl5.
61
The same conclusion may be drawn from
the relation of Celiu& Rhodiginus, who in-
forms us, that when he was twenty.two years
of age, being busied in the interpretation of
Pliny, while as yet the learned emendations of
Hermolaus Barbarus on that excellent author
had not performed to him all that was requisite,
he was reading that place in the seventh book~
which treats of those who grow up beyond the
usual· proportion which Nature has assigned.
The word Ectraj>lli, by wmch such persons
were described by the Greeks, was of some
trouble ·to him. He knew that he had read
something concerning it, b~t ·not being
able to reeall the author, nor the book in
which th~ word was mentioned, and fear-
ing the imputation of unskilfulness, he re-
tired with unea~~iness of mind to sleep, when
his thoughts' continuing still to employ them-
aelves on the subject, be recollected the book,
aod even the page which he wanted•.
• Schotts Pby1. Curios. L iii. C. 25. p. 50. Cel.l.boct.
Antiq. Lec:t. L. urii. C. 9. p. tt50.aud Wauley'• WoDden,
Ch. ~3. •
Penou are wery commoaly known to walk
io their sleep O'ftl' ridge. and parapet~, ·at
which Mad Tom would have shuddered..
Upon these occasions it appears, that they
often act merely from recollection, since they
stumble over objects placed io. their way. The
recoDectioo, however, ia often defective, ami
bowever circumspectly and steadily the persons
may guard agaiast danger ia some .-ns, they
eften forget where it exists io others. The
imagination is also geaerally so ascendaut, that
\be judgment is not allowed time to act.
The eyes of the person are frequently open,
but objects which appear before them are
usually unheeded, the mind being..so ab.iorbed
by its own contemplations, as to be inattentive
to impressions conveyed by the senses. Some..
1imes, however, the eyes. continue, even in
sleep, to present objects- to the mind which
eo~ its attention; as in the case of Johumes
OporiousJ a printer, who, being employed one
11igbt in correcting the copy of a Greek book,
fell asleep as he read, and yet ceased not to
read till he had finished not less than a whole
6S
page, of which, when he aweke·, he retained
»0 recollection "".
The attention of the mind, in this case, ap-
pears to have beenf:J.dually withdrawn after
the body began to" This disposition to
walk and act in sleep is usually considered as
a disorder occasioned_,according to the opiniou.
of some persons, by a plethora, to which young
meo are chiefly liable : we may conceiYe in
these cases the turgid and foam.ing blood to
excite sensations wll.ich affect the mmd: the
disorder is uude~tstood to be curable by purgiug
the primre vi12 t. Whatever be the remote
cause which affects the mind on these oc.
casions, it certainly affords to it an opportll-
nity. of displaying its superior powers of in-
• !'later. Obser.v. Li. p.12.
t Levinus .Lemnius deacribes these night-wallers as men
of a relaxed habit of body, and great fervour and activity·
of mind, as cbie6y young penon• ; obse~ing that old
penons, in whom the vital powers b~n to :8at;, are inca~
pable of the e.lCltiQJI. Do Ql:wlt. Nat, . . . 1.. ii. c.0.
teUigenc:e, raised and excited, as· it' were, by·
new sensatio01, and moving the body oiily as
an incumbrance to which it is chained. A
similar but lesA remarkable effect is displayed,
when, by an agitation of the spirits, persons
are found to talk in their sleep, or to cry out
and move, and even to execute their designs
by external acti001.
There is another faculty of the mind distinct
from those hitherto specified, if we may credit
a singular relation of Mr. Halley, who de-
clared to the Royal Society, that being carried
by a strong impulse to visit St. Heiena, in order
to make observations on the southern constel-
lations, being then twenty-four years of age,
he dreamed, before he undertook the voyage,
that he was at sea, sailing towards that place,
and saw the· prospect of it from the ship in
his dream, which exhibited the perfect repre-
sentation of that islaad, as it afterwards ap-
peared on his approac~. It is possible, that
.the picture was formed agreeably to tlie ideas
ofthe island,which IUs correct miad had formed
65
"from the accounts of others wh1ch he might
have heard or read. Every one, however, may
probably have noticed instances, in which par-
ticular scenes appear, or ·partjcular events
happen, of which a repr(lllelltation may seem
before to have taken place in his mind ; a cir-
cumstance certainly not easy to be explained,
but upon the .supposition of some presaging
power of the mind; but of which the existence
and limits are not sufficiently ascertained or
defined, to authorize the ·ascribing of any
prophetic intelligence to it, or to imply any
~ign in Providence thereby to direct us, aBJ
farther than by such general intimationa of 1be
spiritual nature of the mind. .
The unpleasant sensatioOJoccasioned by the
incubus, or night-mare, are either accidental
or h~bitual, and they appear to affect botb
mind and body. The former is often occa-
sioned by the distension 9f the stomach witll
wind or crudities ; and it is apt to prevail
when people lie on their backs, for then tlie
stomach, be~ dilat~, presses the midritr
...
66
and muscles of the breast most, nd by that
means encumhera the deacent of the one and
the expon of the other, which are neces-
•ry to TeSpiration; and tln11 the blood be-
eomes Jtagnmt in the longs.
The habitual nigh- ia supposed to be
oceMioaed by ~G~De e lymph which dis-
orders the spirits, and creates a paralytic or
ronwbi\oe ttisposition of the nerves of ·the
Midriff aad muscles, which press upon those
ef the windpipe_, and produce the ~ense of
·4rlmgliog : hypochondriacal and scorbutic pero-
80118 are partiealarly liable to theae complaints.
It ia doubtful., in some instances, whether
dreams oriplate with the mind spontaneously
IUDlmoaing up ita own ideas, or with tbe body
prompting 11010e sensation of solicitude. In
the case of the existence of. disorders in the
body, the fearful or oppressive dreams which
indicate a disordered habit, need not neces~
sarily be ascribed to the immediate operation
of the body 011 the llliad commeociug in sleep~
61
since the mind, sympatheticaiJy affected when
awake •, may by its own reflections generate
Bloomy phantoms that scare it when the pains
of sensation are suspended.
As for dreams which seem to argue a re-
dundancy of health, it is at least disputable,
whether they arise from an ardent imagination
open1ting on the min«J, or a full coostitation
of body, llllgg'eatiog illeaa to tlw imagination.
The eonDexien ·whieh SllltMste between the
mind aDd the body is so intimate, and their
reciprocal influence 110 immediate, that it. is
difticq\t to ~~JPi-. -~~~ ei thtir
respecti~ opere.tiQ~, Qd the cmly considel'$•
&ion of ~oueqp~" is tbe ~~of purify-
i"fJ tbe ~ooti~ a~ qf ~~~~the bodJ
to rules of ~ aq4 adf-cQ11111Wld.
• Per coosenaum ~ ·ltWeJII c;tnsorti.i. .L&TiD. LeiiUio de
Occult. N. ?tlir. L i. C. u.
68
CHAPTER XV.
Oll' THE O~EJU.TIOH8 o:r TBE lllHD llil'
THE PB.ODVCTIOH OF DB.EA.l'riS,
And inward spirit worb, and the pe"ading sonl.
DiB'na'do'er u'ry part. direc:b with full control.
&neiL Lill. IIi. I.7'11...-8pirieul ira&111 alit,
IT bas llllfticiently appeued, if is presumed;
in the preceding chapter, that dreams are to
be regarded as the work of the mind, however
occasionaDy suggested by attention to the sen-
sations of the body. From the nature and
universal prevalency of their impress.ons,
which obtain while the corporeal functions, it'
not suspended, are bound up in temporary in-
sensibility, so as to intermit the conveyance of
ideas, Cicero argues the distinct and imma-
terial nature of the mind, and they 'certainly
..~...
69
demonstrate, as Virgil hu expressed it with
emphatical, if not peculiar reference to the
human mind,
" Its hcav'nlyspirit 1111d celestial binh,
However clouded by the mists of earth;
Its force which, though c:onfin'd by mark and chains,
The body's perishable lim~ ctildaiua•."
For as the body is then inert, and not alive to
ordinary perceptions, or capable of being ren-
dered serviceable without the dispersion of
sleep ; the continued activity of the mind,
during the lethargy, is a just argument of its
separate and independent existence ; of its ca-
pacity of thought in an: abstracted state ; of
its energy, which requires neither intermission
nor rest.
It may perhaps be urged as 'an argument
against the presumed proof of the spiritual
• Igncus eat eqaidem vigor et celestia orip. Eaeid.
Lib. vi. I. 730.
.. •
10
mture of tbe tniHd, that brute anidlals appear
tG dream, thaugll we de net llseribe ta &hem
an immaterial soul.
Lucretius, embarrassed with the proof~ in
favour of the ionoortality of the soul, poeti-
cally urges this rvgumeat :
" Not lllllll alone, but IUiiiJI&ls di.splaJ
Tlie same remembrance of the scenes of day.
In sleep t~e courser sweati with swelling "veins,
.o\nd shortly breathing o'er the eoune be strains;
Aad fff'ry barier down with eager sveedo
Strives 'gainlit contending rivals for the meed.
So hounds in sleep their quiv'ring limbs will try,
And give with sudden yelp their feeble cry;
With hequeat inspiratiqn air inhale,
As if they tuuch'd upon the scented gale :
Half-rous'd with eager wildness they pursue
1'h'ideal stag, ~wift flying in their view,
Till to their sight ~h' illusive vision titil,
And real objeete o'er the false pPevail:
E'en th011e of gentler hreed, who Sf'ldom roam,
\Vhose guardian office is to watch at home,
li4&H olf ligJat ..lambe.ra oft with hasty bound•.
As if a stranger seen, or heard a sound,
Eoeh ~¥re as its "-tUl'e's fierce or tame,
When seen awake, in sleep appears the ~Qie•.
71
E'en birds awaken'd in a suddea fri&ht
Fly to securer groves, if chance by night
Tl!e visioliary hawk should hov'ring seem
To -rand tbreatea miloloief in a dream."
There is, it must be confessed, some force
in this objection, and a parity of reasoni01
may seem to compel us to allow. the existence
of an immaterial nature ill animals, as far, at
least, as the proof is to rest on the power of
dreaming, exclusive of other arguments ; and
notwitl1standing, indeed, the spirit of the bead
is said in Scripture to go do":ftward to .the
earth, we may conceive it to be endowed with
powers of reflection, and to be capable of
being impressed by ideas, and therefo;e of a
constitution which, though manifestly inferior
to the human mind, and, it is presumed, not
destined to immortality, may be considered as
.distinct from a material substance, no organi-
zation ofwhich we can conceive to be capable
of thought*. .
• Narn si quid in illis rationis similitudinem imit3tur, non
ratiu, sed memoria eat, et memoria non ilia ratione mixta,
sed qure hebitudinem sensuuru quinque comitatur. 1\Iacrob,
in Sottut. Scipio-L. i. c. 14. See alao Locke.
71
There is a relation of St. Austin, in a lettel'
to Euodius, wbich prettil.y illustrates the ar-
gument of the im.materiality of the mind to be
drawn from its distinct operations. Genadius,
we are told, a Carthaginian physician, who
doubted of the immortality of the soul, saw
in his sleep a youth, who shewed to him a
beautiful city, and *ho, returning on the suc-
ceeding night, inq_uired of Genadius whether
he recollected him. Genadius answered that
he did, and remembered his dream. The .youth
then uked him what he was then about: the
phjsician replied, that be was in his bed sleep-
ing. The apparition left him to reflect with
salutary conviction, that as his mind then be-
held a city, though his eyes were closed in
sleep, and his body lay dormant, so the spirit
of man might continue to live and exercise its
powers of observation and intelligence, though
the body should lie lifeless in the tomb •.
'!'•
It is an idea to which we have before ad-
verted, that those faculties of the mind often
display themselves with greater energy when
the body is sepulchred in sleep, and when th~
spirit is as it were released from u the earthly
tabernacle which weigheth down the mind tb.at
musetb on many things • ."-They .seem to
expatiate with uncontrolled freedom, to unfold
·new powers of intelligence .aDd fancy, to range ·
with sudden and excursive ftights, in which the
horizon of the prospect is varied and enlarged,
and the scattered scenes of memory collected
into one point of view ; objects are grouped
with .rapid -observation, our action seems un-
circumscribed,and we glide in visionary celerity
from scene to scene with the imperceptible
flight of the eagle soaring through the trackless
.air, and moving as the heathen deities are re-
presented, or as Adam describes himself,
" Smooth .U4ing withot t ste_:~ t.''
• Wisdom i:r. 15.
t Paradise Lost, B. mi. L 30!.
YOL.U. B
7+
or like Sbal.espear, when
,. Existence .... him spurn her bounded rei&n,
And panting Time toil'd after him in vain •."·
It may perhaps be argaed, that whatever
excellency of thought and reflection is dis-
played by the mind in sleep, it is the excel.
lency of the lesser faculties, not of reason,
bat of those that " serve reason as chief," ot
mimic Fancy, which but \\'akes to imitate rea.
son, and which
" Joining or 111'isjoinillg shapea.
\Vild work produces oft, and ·most in dreams;
Ill matching words and dcedslon& put, or late t."
And Mr. Locke indeed represents dreams as
not under the rule and conduct of the under·
standing; but it may still be maintained, that
however the fancy may appear to predominate
over the judgment, and bo'MVel' the mind may
• JohDBOn.
t Parad. Lost, B. v. L 100. UO.
.be deluded into a belief of the ieality of t'hose
ictitioua scenes which it forms, when it
." With inward apprehension gently moves
'Our fancy te believe we yet have being.
:And live*•"
_yet tbat the superior powers· of the mind arc
eften exercised in sleep with· cODSiderabte ef-
fect, anti its ·faatlties of disctimination and
~ :judgment manifested ill a chain of reasoning.
:Much of incongroity., Which is supposed to ·
·prove-the suspension of reason, and much of
··the wlld discordancy f>f representation which
..appears to prevail, may -ariHe from the defect
ef memory when we awake, that does not
-retain the impression of images wl!ich ha\'e
~assed across rhe· mind in light-and rapid suc-
cession; and which, therefore, exhibit but -a
·partial and imperfect skek:h ofthe picture tliat
<'11gftged 'the attention in sleep.
• Parad. Lo$t.
·.B.2
76
We have produced, in a preceding chapter,
some relations which demonstrate the exer-
tion of the higher powers of intellect in sleep.
Sir Thomas Browne wall of opinion, that
we are somewhat more than ourselves in
sleep, and that the slumbers of the body seem
to be but the waking of the soul ; the ligati011
of sense, but the liberty of reason ; and that
.our waki111 conceptioos do not match the
fancies of our sleep. " At my nativi~," says
he_, ~c my ascendant was the watery sign of
Scorpios ; I was born in the planetary hour of
Saturn, and I t,bink I have a piec~ of that
leaden planet in me•. I am no way facetious,
nor diaposed for the mirth and galliardiae of
company ; yet in one dream I can compose
a whole comedy, behoW the action, appre-
heud the jests, and laugh myself awake at the
c;onceits thereof: were my memory as faithful
aa my reason is then fruitful, I would never
study but in my dreams ; and this time also
would I chose for. my devotions : but our
grosser memories have then so little bold of
our abstracted understandings, that they forget
77
the story, and can only relate te our awaked
souls a confused and broken tale of that that
hath passed •."
Allowing what we please for the elaborate
extravagancies of ·this learned and ingenious
writer, there is still much truth in his remarks;
and it is certain, that the mind exhibits great
and extraordinary p~wers in sleep, and we
may collect very striking proofs of the supe-
riority of the human intellect working amidst
the confusion of its dreams. We note the
ability of the mind to withdraw itself from at-
tention to the body to the contemplation of.
its own images, its comprehension of every
thing within the sphere of its obBervation, the
vivid and unexpected recovery of the past, and'
its boh.l and probable conjecture of the future;
• we perceive in it a spirit that only needs to be.
roused, a vigour which, to apply the illu:M:ration
of Lactantius, requires o~ly, a~ fire strewed
• Rcligio 1-It:dici, P. ii. §. 11.
E 3
78
orer and coftl'ed with uhes, k» be slightly
lllOftcl to break fortb; we may abaost •y,
Tlae Deity withia aa atin1 and we maintain
All ilatm:oane •ith thoae in hcav'n who reign•.
The mind has certainly been deemed capable
of impreniona of revealed knowledge when
the body has been asleep ; but though we
should be disposed to admit any superiority in
ita powers of apprehenaion or exertion in ita
abstracted state, and allow, that in proportioD
u it withdraws from the body it exhibits proofs
of ita elevated nature, we do not conceive that
its faculties, unaided by inspiration, can make
any discoveries beyond the limits of experi~
ence. It may combine objects "·ith every
variety of representation, and it may outstrip
the rapidity of time ; but if it pass the bounds
or present observation, it will be only to wan-
der among scenes framed by the combination
of earthly objects, however diversified by
• Est "Peal in nobis, &c. Yiqil.
79
fanc:y, or apiritualiz.ed by abatraetioo *. Th•
general picture will be formed. of corporeal
image&, tllougb joined perhaps in the uona-
&ufal groupiog, or composed in the-fantastic
ilatgery which Horace repreaeots of the horse's
neck joined. to the human head, and of thf'
limbs feathered with various plumage. If the
mind dream of heaven, it will people it with
e~U"tbly oPjec:.to ; itll angela will no more re-
semble cc.kttial ministers, than those which
the imagiQation figures to itself in ita waking
1\reauw, or tb~ poetry and painting have po...,
tr.yed, It JPa,Y 1.e CQocluded·therefore, that
-what.."Vef ~-oies t1le mmd diltplaya, it
cloea not _,pe.ar. to be udowed.with prophetM:
powers ; though from the infinite diversity of
' The mind can have no ideas but what it hu acquired
by the senses. 1\lr, Bew, how11ver, in bis Essay on Blind-
ness, publilohed in the· lint volume of tbe Manchester Me-
moira. professes to hare gained sufficient information to
M!llyjpce billa, that the blind feel impreuio. in dro•mmg
Qilar to the viaible "ffpeuancea of bodie1-11a ~ar.
"·e may suppose, as scarlet to the aound of a trumpet.
B 4
80
circ:wnstances which crowd inte the field of itw
observation, and from the incalculable variety
of scenes which are combined, it is impossible
that it should not sometimes dream of events
which have an analogy, or resemblance to cir-
cumstances, that afterwards come to paas.
It is natural to suppose, tha* there must be
occasional correspondences discovered between
the particulars that occur in the endless variety
of human clre~s, and in the infinite diversity
of Luman events : dreams are composed of
reSections formed from experience in life, the
course-of which is, in many respects, uniform;
' and these are circumstao~ which daily recur.
It bas been before observed, likewise, that
the particulars which pass in review before us
in dreams are often forgotten, and recalled
only "'hen some similitude. of event revives
them. As not accurately remembered, their.
indistinct images are more readily accommo-
dated to subsequent circumstances, and are
often conceived to bear a reference which doea
81
not exist. Divine dreams, which were really
subservient to revelation, laid the foundation
of a confidence which was afterwards extended
to false pretensions. There is a general dis-
position to a superstitious apprehension of fu-
twity, and a general propensity to magnify
trivial incidents into marvellous events. The
accounts which most surprise and stagger us
are not sufficient in number or clearness to
authorize the supposition of preternatural in-
terference, while many others must be rejected
aa " pleasant ·tales • :" as proofs of that love
of the marvellous which overlooks simple so-
lutions, and seeks fo.:. miracles, which neg-
lecting
" '!'hAt which is before ita_ feet, gazes on the stan t."
It is certain, that the knowledge of futurity
would by no means be conducive to human
e 0 ,....... XOIAOI ~liN .........
t Quid ante pedes nemo spectat, c~li spectatur plagas.
z...,:t•'•"'•' ••~,.. ·.,..••A..,:t.., ,...n-,•.,..,•xorr•~·
Euripides.
E 5
--
Bi
happiness, if it could be obtained : it woul<f
not advance either the improvement or tlae
present· interests of man. Horace. has well-
obse"ed, thlt.t
" The pfadeot God hath veile4in darkeat Picht
The foture sc:ene hom ev'ry mortal sight;
And laughs wbeli men, with over-anxious fears,.
Anticipate tbe woes of future years."
And there are eooaiderabons, mooed, to de-
monatnlte the wUdom of the appointments of
whil:a the heathen moralists were not aware ;
fol' iC it.were. otherwise,. our existence would
bo reP'dbd not at au• uncertain period of pro-
bation, but as a defined possession, in which.
amendment would be posponed, and repent-
ance procrastinated ; ow- dependance on the
Supreme Being \\"ould be forgotten·: there
woulli be coRfidooce withoat fcaJ", a· J·eliance
without gratitude or piety. The animation of
hope, the pleasure of surprise, would be lost.
The knowledge of approilchiog good would
""t deaden the enjoyment of possessi()n ; the
dread of approaching evil would be fearful
ss
and intolerable. What, says Cicero, would
have beea the fate of Priam, if he had fore-
seen the impendiag destruction of his family ?
•• 0. yj,ipua ill foreseen. better blli he
Liv'd ignorant of future, 10 had borna
His part of evil only.''
., Let DO 18811 lltlek
Hauceforth to be foretold what shl!ll befall
Him or his children ; evil he may be sure,
Which neither his foreknowing can prevent ;
Aud he the futdre evil shall no less
ln apprehension th110 in sumbtur:e feel
Grievous to bear • .''
Who would wish to behold his descendants, as
Virgil represents .lEQ~as to have seen Mar-
.cellus,
;, Ill yeuth encircled with the shades. of death."
How much would the inducement to cultivate
tlw geed qualities and exeellet~eies of those in
w4om we now feel interested be diminished,
* Paradise Lost, D. xi.
E 6
..
84
especially among such u look not to the eter-
nal fruits of virtue, if we were conscious tbal
premature death would deprive us soon of the
society of the objects of our care, and bury
their virtues in an early grave : who would la-
bour for distinction, of which the effect must
finish on the morrow ? What fortitude could
contemplate the shade advancing on the dial
of time, if the line were ascertained at which
·death would execute its decree ?
Many writers, who have thought that they
• have observed proofs of a prophetic discern-
ment of the mind, have maintained, that it.
displays an especial insight as it approaches
the goal of its delivery *. Cicero considers
its presaging powers as expressive of a divine
uature, and of the excellent facwties which it
will display in a future state t.
• Xenophon. Hist. L viii.
t Cicero de Scncc·.
85
These opinions are consi&tent with the cur.
rent persuasio~ of antiquity, of which the
poets and historians afford many proofs ; as for
instance Homer, in describing the death of
Patroclus; Virgil, that of Tumus; Cicero, that
of Possidonius • : and SirThomas Browne has
observed, that men sometimes, upon the hours
of their departure, do speak and reason above
themselves ; for then the soul, about to be
freed from the ligament of the body, begins
to reason like herself, and to discourse in a
strain above mortality t ." This, however, is
nothing but the elation of the mind, to which
earthly things begin to fade, and the hope and
expectation of immortality to brighten : no real
foreknowledge obtains, excepting as founded
on conjectural reasonings from expe1·ience; nor
are there any well-established accounts of such,.
' Naudams in Bib. Casaubon Eotbus. C. ii. p. 59.
Boyle's Works, vol. v. p. 496.
t Rtligio Medici, Jl, ii. §. u.
ss.
exceptiag in the iD81aDc:e8 mentioned in sacled
1..!-~- •
UIIIWry •
"The miDll of..-a ia iponurt of fate t."
We may conclude therefore, in general de:.
duction, from the considerations which have
been stated, first, that the mind had no exis_!-
ence previously to its entrance into the body ;
since, in its most abstracted speculations, it
exhibits no acquaintance with any ideas that
are not acquired by the senses on earth ~ and
secondly, that it is immaterial, and capable of
independent exertions, though it sympathizes
with the body in its affections, when the latter
is either sleeping or waltiag, and is pained by
its sufferings, and enlivened by ita vigour. It
appears also that it developes powers and fa-
oultiea of a spiritual natun: ; and that its per-
fections are sometimes manifested with eq_ual, if
.not greater vivacity, when it is~ from tbe
oppF8Ssive i.nftuence of the body ; and that it
• Gen. xlviii, t Vugil.
S7
has, in that state, been judged by God capable
of receiving divine revelations. It appears
likewise, 'that some faint notices bave been dis-
cerned in it oecuionally of aR intuitive and
prophetical discernment, though it is not na-
turally endowed with prophetic powers, capable
of affording any ligbl for. the direction of the
conduct of u~en.
-
88
CHAPTER XVI.
Wherefore, 0 Ruler of the World, impart
Tiois heightened sorrow to the human heart;
Through fearful omena led by thy decree,
Impaodillg griefa IUid slaughter to foresee •.
IT hu been an opinion countenanced in the
preceding chapters, that the human mind is
not naturally endowed with any power of fore-
knowing or presaging future events, however
it may occuionally have been inspired with
prophetic apprehensions by the immediate im-
pulse of God's Spirit. It may be proper, there-
fore, to consider now what may be alledged in
favour of the second sight,which hu often been
maintained to prevail in the Highlands of Scot-
land, as this inquiry is intimately connected
• Lncao's l'hanalia, L. ii.
89
with the subject of our preaent diacoasion ; and
aiooe if it can be admitted that such faculty
does really exist, it may bejudged UIU'eaSOnable
to ·dispute the existence also of • prophetic
power of the mind operating in dreams.
Tbat full scope may be allowed for the
eumination of this subject, I &ball set don
the result of the inquiries which were made
by Dr. Johnson in bia celebrated Tour with
Mr. Boewell to the Highlands, accompanied
with -his reftections which are pbiloaopbical and
juat, and which it would be an injury to give
in any other words than his own.
" The second sight," says this great writer,
" is an impression made either by the mind
upon the eye, or by the eye upon the mind,
by which things distant or future are perceived,
and seen as if they were present ; a man on a
journey far from home falls from his horse,
another who is perhaps at work about the.
houae seea him bleeding on the ground, com-
monly with a landscape of the place where the
aecideat bealla - ; _.er seer ewing
laome his cattle, or 'WIIIMleliag io.id&eae~~~t, ot
..... in the IUPihille, illll&kWy SUJpri.ed
1»1 abe ~~ppeii'IUlee oi a bridal CJtremoay, or
fimenl ptoeeesion, ad co\QM \be. aOMntOU or
attendants, of whom, if he !mows them, he
ftlatea the ~ if he awwa than DOt,. he
ma tleacribe tho ....._ Tbiop diataataro
1ee1a at the i.taotwhea they happen, of. tlaia81t
futuro. 1 koo.w not that the..., it any IVle te.r
de~ the timo be&we• the. apt ad
the eYWlt.
~ This receptive r.:ulty,_ for power it.~ot
be called, is neither voluntary nor constant,
tlae appearancea have no depeodanc:e upon
choice, they CMDOt be aummooed, detained,
or recalled, the impreasion ia sqdden,_·•d the
eft"ect often painfql.
'' By the terna lltCOQd light seeuaa to 1-.
meant a mode of aeaiug superadded to 1Lat
which nature geaeraUy beMows.
91
'" I do net find it·te be-trQe,.a& it i& r~ported,..
that to the second sip.t ~p.o~ i• ~ed but
phantoms of evil; good seems to have the
same :proportiOQ ~ -h~ vjsionary s~enes, as
it oblaiu in -re.llife. ~ all remarkable.
qyents have evil·for· their basis, aud are ei&he.-
miseries incurred, or· miaeriea ~ Our.
ae1111e .ia. so DUJch stmngor of what we.au.ft"er,
tbaa·of what we enjory~ that' We.·ideas .r paia·
predomimte itt ahnaat ~ miad. What is.
reeollection but. &~l'fA'iwl of veationa, ia hia.
tQJy bttt a record of wu•, tl'eaaom, and cala-
mities ? Death, wbida iar con1idered • the ·
greatest eril, bappeu.tn·all, the greattsst &ooil
be it what.it.willis;the·lot.hut· ei. a part•.
~~ That they sheteW offeR see death it! to he
expec:red, beeawle deaU. is- .u oftnt frequent.
and important, hut they· see likewise moro
pleasiag ineidtlnliso ..l.gtmdeman.-told mo·th•.
wheo he· had QIW» ~WQ&· far- from his. o.wn,
island, one of hia ~uri.Bg se.-vants predicted-
his return, and deaer.ibed the livery of. hi&
attendant which he had nel'W wore at. bQille,_
and which had been without any previous d..
sign oceuionally given him.
" It is the common talk of the Lowlantl
&ott, that the notioJJ of the seeond sight i'f
wearing away with other superstitions, and
that itt reality is no longer supposed but by the
groseest people. How far its prevalence wu
extended, or what ground it has lost, I know
not. The islanders of all degrees, whether of
rank or understaodiog, universally admit it, ex- ·
cept the ministe,a, who universally deny it in
cooseqnence of a system against conviction ::
one of them honesdy told me that ·he came ~
Sky with a resolution not to believe it.
" Strong reasons for incredulity will readily
occur : this faculty of seeing things out of sight
is local and commonly useless, it is a breach
of the common order of things, without any
visible reason, or perceptible benefit; it is as-
cribed only to a people very little enlightened,
·and among them, for the most part, to the
mean and ignorant.
93
~' To the coofidence of these objection& it
may be replied,· that by presuming to determine
what is fit and what is beneficial, they pre-
suppose more knowledge ofthe univenalsystem
than man has attained ; and, therefore, depend
upon principlee too complicated and extensive
for our compreheusion, and that there can be
no security in the consequence when the pre-
mises are not understood ; that the second
llight is only wonderful because it. is rare, for
.:ousidered 1n ittlelf, it involves 110 more diffi-
culty than dreams, or perhaps than the regular
exercise of the cogitative faculty ; that a general
opinion ofcommunicative impulses, or visionary
r'epreeentations, has prevailed io· all ages and
.all nations ; that particular instancee have been
given with such evidence u neither Bacon nor
Boyle has been able to resist ; that sudden
impressious, which the event has verified, have
been felt by more than own or publish them ;
that the secood sight of the Hebrides implies
only the local frequency of a·power which is
no where totally unknown, and that where we
.are unable to decide by antecedent reason, we
must be cf>~t te·)ield to lhe llrte of testi-
IIMD.Y·
"c By preteMion to !leeo&d tigbt·no profit was
·ever sou~t or gaiMd, it ·is an involuntary
-e'l'eetioa in ·which Mither ·hope ner fear are
bown to have any part, ttlese who profess ro
·feel it do !lOt ~feast ~ it as • priVilege, nor
·are eo~rt'd by odten as ad~urdy dis-
tiftgtrished ; they ·have 110 tetny,tation to feign,
and tbeir beaten baYe tlO• bletive to tlft~
the impMtmc.
~c To ·talk with ·art; df these seers is not
·easy, &here is one IMog .in -Bky "'ith whom we
·WO'tlld· gtlfdly ha•e ~rse.l, Ht be w~ ·very
gross an'd ignonmt, ·and k!Je\\' no English.
The proportion in· these countJies of the poor
to t~ rich is such, tlrftt 'if we suppose tlle
·qu;dity to be accidental, it can very .l'lll'dy
happen to a man of· eduettien, lltld yet oil
such men it has sometimes fallen.- There is
u:ow a second sighted gentleman in the High-
taniU, wko eomplaial of 'tbe terrors to which
he is exposed.
r• The foJ'ellisk of the le8l'8 is not always
prescience, they are imprelllled with presages of
which the event only shews them the m~
they tell what they have seen to others who are
at that time not :11ore knowillg than thelllllelves,
hilt may lJeocotne at last very adeltuate witnessea
lty comparing the narrative with its verification.
« T() celleet llldcieat testimonies ror the
satia&ction f1f tile public or of ourselves,
would have required more time than we could
bestow. Tbere is against it the seeming analogy
of things confusedly seen and little understood,
and for it the indistinct cry of national per-
suasion, which may be perhaps resolved at last
into pr~judice and tradition. I never could
advance my curiosity to convietion, but came
away at last only willing ~ believe• .n
• Johnson's Joumey to the WesterntalaDds, Murphy's
.-dit. vol, viii. p. 343-847.
....
From thiJ ac:count no aatiafactory concl..-ion
can, I think, be drawn subverSive of the
opinion maintained in these disquisitions, that
the human mind is not Daturally endowed with
any p11tphetic powers.
It is possible, indeed, that it !Day experience
Bloomy presages which are the result of the
conviction of the uncertainty of human affairs,
or the eft'ectofapprehebaion and moral feelings.
•.fbe faculty claimed in the Highlands is pecu-
liar to countr.es where knowledge and true
philosophy have not,yet diffused their full light,
aor religion put to Right these gloomy super-
stitions which are apt to linger in retired aud
secluded scenes, amidst vallies soon overapread
with the shades of evening, and where the
vaporJ ntists float incessantly on c< the mOlUl-
taius' lwow."
97
CHAPTER XVII.
Oll' 'l'RB :I.BCUB.B.BJIJCB 01' THOSB ILEI'LZC•
TIONB IN BLBEP, WHICH HAVE ENGA.G.BD
OUR ATTBNTION WHBW AWAB:B,
• And the same imase still retuma."
Eaclemque rec:arrit imaao.
DIVERSE as are the circumstances, and varied
as is the character of our dreams, and diJiicult
as it sometimes is to trace their connection
with preceding reflections and JWents, it appears
that, in general, they take t\leir complection
from particulars of a recent occurrence, and
are tinctured by the colouring of our thoughts
before we close our eyes in forgetfulness, how-
. ever the shades may padually change, aod
insensibly assume 11 different hue.
VOL, 11. p
This connection betwee~ our waking and
aleeping thoughts was noted by Solomon, who
observes " that a dream * cometh through the
multitude of business," and it is alluded te
with poetical illustration by Lucretius in the
following lines :
• The scenes on which our thoughtl have chiefly dwelt ;
The paia and pleuurea which we oft have felt ;
Whate'er punuitl employ us when awake,
Posseeion of our minds in sleep will take.
Sratutes and laws the lawyers still engage, )
Contending chieftains furious battles wage, ~·
And sailors struggle with the tempest's rage. J
I Nature'• principles explore, and seek
Eatablish'd tr11ths in native strains to teach.
• The Hebrew 'word e~.,n c.,n, a dream, according to
Parkborst, implies broken pam -or fragments Ring com-
posed of ideas or iruages received hy our aeuses, particu•
larly by o11r sight, while awake; it ia, indeed, often applied
to supernatural drea1111, which, like natural dreams, con-
lisred of broken and familiar images, as in Gen. :nxvii. d.
ali. Dauiel ii. Yii. Other lexicographers, bowever, deri•e the
word c')n, .aluit, qai sBUi somniant, and suppose it to
tle110te the temperament ef the co11.1titutiou.
99
And other arts illusively beguile
The mind in sleep with faseinating smile :
Those who on.idle sporta consume tbe hours
Which pleasnre varies with its changing powers;
Where transient objects to the mind convey'd,
In quick succession speedily must fade ;
Still though the sct>ne he closed, in dream• deacl)'
Traces of all that has amused the eye.
Oft do the lruages recur. In graceful form
Some the soft movements of the dance perform,
While liquid measures Boat upon the ears,
And the whole splendid theatre appears.
With such a strong dominion custom reigns,
So pleasure binds the mind in silken ehains ;
Those whose great souls with lofty projects teem,
Renew these projects nightly as they dream.
Monarchs attack, are taken, seem to feel,
Or shrink a1Frighted from the thrt>atening ateel;
Some, as they bleed, their haples• fate bemoan;
And midst the battle's shouts unheeded groan;
Some as if tom by furious panthers cry,
Some ~~eem beneath the lion's rage to lie •."
Ovid avails himself of this renewal of the.
sen!lations which engage our waking thoughts,
in the following pathetic lines. in which lu~
• Lucretiua, ~. iv. ~t quoa quisqae.
p '2
100
,ypnted his sorrows when 1n exile among the
.Sarmatians.
·" When relit and 1leep their medicine prepare,
Vainly I hope the night devoid of care;
'Then dreams which copy real woes revive
My grief, and every sense to 10rrow is alivt.
I ~eem to shrink·from tbc Sarmatian spears,
Or raise my bands to cbains witl1 captive tears:
.Or soothed to happier scenes my mind regaina
Jdy long deserted seat and nativt~ plains ;
With you, my friends, sweet converse I maintain.
Or thee, beloved, to m..v bosom strain."
The leamed and engaging Sir Henry Wot-
ton in a suney of education, speaking of a
child, says, " Let not his very dreums be
Deglected, for without question there is a great
analogy between these apprehensions which he
hathtaken byday intohis fancy, and the nocturnal
impressions, particularly in thtat age which is
not yet troubled with the fumes and cares of the
world, so as the soul hath a freer and more
defecated operation• ."
lOl
This recurrence of images which ha1'e pre-
•iously engaged the mind, 1s also neatl.Y d.-
pressed by Claudian.
" Whate'er by day our contemplation views,.
Sweet sleep's reflection in the night renews;
Scarce on his bed the wearied sportsman lies,
Than back into the woods his fancy flies.
In dreams the judge decrees, the charioteer
Guides round the goal his courser's swift career,
Softly the lovP.r treads. The merchant deals,.
The miser starting fo~ his treasure feels..
Sleep to the thirsty land, in fruitless dreams,
Dro.u front icleal.springsrefreshing stre1111111 j'
Me too the Muses, in the silent night
With arts seductive, to-their-haunts invite*.!'
The connection between our waking and our
sleeping thoughts appears from the curious
eircumstauce of our dreamiqg often that we do,
dream, which results from the c011viction tha,t
we have before been deceived•.
• Omnia quae sensa, &c. Claud. pref. iii•.
p s
lOi
It is remarkable that the mind -..hen we
dream is the theatre of action, and at the BBme
time the agent, the whole mimic IICene ·is a
fictitious world collected in the mind, iB which
objects and persons, as actors and spectators,
are multiplied with endless fertility of imagina-
tion. St. Basil represents dreams to be the
vestiges of our daily thoughts, and obser:ves
that our reflections and discourse generate
correspondent circumstances in sleep. It is
certain that the mind after the storm and con-
vulsion of disturbed passions, continues long
like the troubled sea when it cannot rest, _of
which the waters cast up mire and dirt •. 11Iis
is very sensibly experience_d by persons whose
affections are agitated by love, their sleep
being generally harassed by the hopes and fears
which distract them when awake,and tormented
by those dreams, of which Dido complains,
finding, like her, that the words and featurea
of the beloved object
• Isaiah Ivii. tG.
. 103
~ Are deep imprinted in the anxio~ breut,
And care.precludes the wearied limbs from rest • ."
As, on the other hand, the visions of the_san-
guine or .favoured lover present to him the
object of his affections, though, perhaps, when
• . .f .
~e awake he must embra<:e a cloud.
Dugald Stewart justly observes, that as a
proof that the succession of our ,thoughts io
dreamin~ is influenced by our prevaili~g habits
.Qf as.wcjation, it JBay be remarked ·that the
,f!Cenel tmd occurrences which most frequently
j,resent themselves to the mind whii~ ~leep,
are the scenes and occurrences of childhood
and early youth. The facility of association
is thea much greater than in more advanced
years, and although during .the day the memOf'y
of the events thus associated may be banished
by the objects and pursuits which press upon
our senses, it retains a more permanent bold
of the mind than any of our subsequent ac-
* B•rent -infixi, &c.
, 4
-
4pieitions; and like the knowledge which we
posaeu of our mother tongue is, a it were,
interwoven and incorponated with all its most
eaential habits. Accordingly in old men,
'Whose thoughts are in a great measure dis-
engaged from the world, the tranaactions or
their mid.Ue age, which once seemed 110 im-
portant, are often obliterated, while the mind
dwells as in a dream on the sports and com-
panions of their infancy •. .
On this subject Mr. Schwab, who is pro-
fessor of philosophy in the univer~oity Caroline
ofStutgard, remarks with ingenious illustration,
that the vivacity of strong sen~:~ations continues
an impression after the cause which gave birth
to it is removed, as a circle of fite is presented
by a burning coal that is turned round with
npidityt.
• Elements or the Phil010pby or Human Mind, C. 5.
t See Esiai sur Ia Reduction dea Facultea de 1'.AIDe danl
Je.uouveaux Memoires de l'Academie dea Sc:ienc:e.. et dea
llellea Lettrea a !*li~ A.D. 17~
105
'ln consequence of this recurrence of images
in eleep, similar to tho~~e which engage our
waking attention, it happens that the -slumbers
of men conscious of integrity are composed
and peaceful, while those of persons who are
harassed by evil and turbulent passions are
perturbed and miserable.
" Scarce can they close their eyes. they wildly start,
And in the fear o£ yengeance feel the smlrt ;
Renew thei~ rage, and their dark thought• resn~na
Their stormy passions and their sllilty gloom •."
Nothing can be more wretched •an the
eleep of those
" That feel
Those rods of scorpions, and those whips of steel'
Which Conscience shakes, when s~e with rage controll.
·Ami spreada amazing terror thr~ugb their aoulL
Not sharp reverge, nor bell itself can find,
A fiercer torment than a guilty min.!,
Which day and mght doth dreadfully acco~e,
Condemns the wretch, and still the c~~ rene~it."'
• Cl11ud. in. Rnfin. L. ii.
t Dr,rdeo.'11'rallllat. o£ J11ven. Sat. L. ziv t..S-:!55.
Ji 5
106
This consideratiO'a is tke more importantif
"'e reHect farther, that circumstances which
have strongly interested and affected the mind,
are apt frequently to return in dreams ; and
tbe same impressions are renewed in many
persons alQlost.•every night ; hence Shak.espear
wakes Aufidius say to Coriolanus when burning
with indignant emulation in consequence of tl1e
defeats which he had .experienced from the
Romans,
" I have nightly since
Drl'am'd of encounters 'twixt thyself and me,
We have been down together, in my sleep,
Unbuckling helm!, listing each othl'rs throat,
And wak'd half dead with nothing•."
· . He then who would not sleep in the ~iction
of terribl~ dfeams which shake the mind,
should t.e careful to retire with composed
sentiments and unruffled passions~ and should
.Jo well to follow tbe example of Sir Tho~as
nrown, who tells us that in his solitary and
107
refu:edimagination, (Neque enim camporticu,
llut me lectulus accepit, desum mibi.)" I re-
member I am not alone, and -therefore forget
not to contemplate Him and his attributes whO'
is ever wi~h me, especially those two mightJ
ones, hia wisdom and eternity •.
It may be well also to remember, that u a
night of terror succeeds a day of wickedness,
so the reflections of eternal suffering will ne-
cessarily follow a life of misconduct.
It iR related that Ptolemy enquired of one
of the translators of the Septuagint, what
would make one sleep in the night, and re-
ceived for answer, that the best method was to
. have divine and celestial meditationa, and to
perform honest actiolls in the day t•
If we adopt the notion countenanced by
Baxter, who suppoaes dreams ~o be the aug-
•·ftUigio Medid, :Bllol L Stet. 11.
t Arilt•u.a.
, 6
108
pstions of immaterial beinp1 we must admit
with the ancients that these beings are divided
into two claseea1 since if the office of some
appear to be like that of the guardian sylph1
\\•hom Pope repreeents with friendly intentions
of "'·arning his charge against danger1 to have
prolonged the balmy rest of BelindaJ and ta
Jaaye
• Summoned to Jler silent lied"
The mominc dream that honr'd r~und her head.'•
The malevolent employmellt of others must b~
like that of Satan1 as
" By devilish arts to reaeh·
·The organs of the fancy, and with them forg..
Jllnsinns as they list, pba11toraa &lid drca1u;
Or if in•pmng v.enom tbry ea.D taiot
'ih' a..imal spirits that fcom pure bleod arise.
Like ge,utle bre11.ths frotu rivers pure; ~hence raise-
At least distemper'd discontented thoughts,
Yain hoprs, vnin aims, inordinate desires
IUJ~.wq, up witb h~h c:ooct it• engendering pride •.••
109
In consistency with this opinion God may be
supposed to render dreams subservient to good
purposes, and by his good angels ";ho as re-
pres,ented
" With gentle dreama ba...e calmed
Portending good, and all his spiritl compoaecl
To meek submission *·"
/
And so fa,r it may be said
" God is also in sleep, and dream' advis~>,
Which he hath sent propitious, some good
Pre~~agin!! t."
Whenever dreams have a bad tendency we
111ay be persuac.led that they are not the sug-
gestion of good spirits, or that they !lfe not to
be literdlly followed. There is some instruction
in the story of Sabaco, one of the past"ural
kings of Egypt t, who-, wheu the tutelary
* Paradise Lost, B. xii. 593.
t Ibid. H. 1ii. L. 6ll-613.
~ Diudorus. L. ii. aa cited by M:ontesquieu·.
\
110
deity of Thebes appeareci to Lim ia a dream,
and Qrdered him to put to death all the priests
of Egypt~ very wisely judged that the goda
were displeased at his being on the throne~
since they advised him to commit an action so
contrary to their ordinary will~ and therefore
retired into lEthiopia •.
• Hered. L. ii. c. m.
lll
CHAPTER XVIII.
ON "rBB l~I'LUBNCE 01'· TBB :BODY Olf TIIS
HliiJ) IX. SLBEP.
" The heavy body loaded by excess
The sympathetic mind will oft depress,
Weigh down tho spirit of celeetiallllrtb,
And chain its glorious faculties to earth.''
Hrrrace. Sat. i. L. ii. Corpu1 oavlt.
ALTHOUGH it bu appeared.in the preceding
chapters that dr.eams are to be r•rded as the
oreation of the mind, it has betlll admitted
that. the feelings of the body often interfere in
tuggesting sensationa which affect the chanu:ter
ef our. thoughts, and are productive of re.
fiectiona c:orrespoudeat to tlut impressioaa ft•
cited.
. Much .OT the composure and satisfaction of
eur dreams was attributed hi fbe ancienta to the
lll
10briety of our bodies when committed to
aleep, and no dreams that could be subsenient
to divination were supposed to arise from the
fumes oi indigestion. Socrates i& represented
lty Plato to have remarked, that when tbe
intelligent spirit of the mind languishes in a
profound sleep, and the fiercer and more sen-
sual affections intoxicated,. as it were~ by im-
moderate food er.ult in ascendancy ; the ideas
that present themselves 11re devoid of reason,.
and full of incestuous and evil fancies ; but
when we take rest aft~ wholesome and mo-
derate food, that part of the mind in which
there is reason and judgment being erec:t and
capacious of good thoughts, aDd the body
'being neither distreSsed by want, nor loaded
by satiety, the mind shines forth fresh lftld
lively, and tranquil, and sure dreams arise •.
On similar considera&ioo dreams which obtaia
&owards the morning, as not likely to be the
suggestioos of heavy sensatioos,. were regarded
as most clear and prophetic.
• Cacero de DiU. .. '
llS
In a composed state of_the body there is
certainly a more even tenor in our dreams,
-which resemble the calm reftections ·of our
waking thoughts in tranquillity; the same scenes
are renewed, and the same particulars recur.
Unusual dreams argue o~n not only a disturbed
state of mind, but a body gross and abounding
witli humour ; and hence it is that physicians,
as did particularly Hippocrates, with some
degree of truth deduce conclusions concerning
the temperament of our body from the nature
and cast of our dreams. It is notorious that
persons drunk, or in fevers, contemplate horrid
spectres in their sleep; those who are oppressed
with bilious melancholy behold triste add ca-
daverous figures ; those whose cpnstitution is
choleric dream of fire and slaughter ; those
who are phlegmatic, of water., and those who
are sanguine, of merriment. Levinus Lemnius
was, however, perhaps, too fanciful when h~
affirmed, that to dream of wallowing in 61th
and mud argued fetid and putrid humours; but
to dre~ of odoriferous and fras~t ftower•
....
pro"ted that pure and wholesome jaicea pre-
dolbiuated.. .
Sach theoria muat not be too much de-
pended upon, since it is certain that our ima-
gination, even in its most sober and confined
exertions, frames every variety of circumstance.,
and wUlders through every change of scene.
" 1'1111tutic Morpheua!
Teo thousand mimic fancies fleet around bim.
Subtle u air, and nriou in theif natures ;
Each has tim thoiJlllllld thouBIIIId difFerent forms,
Ja wllich dley dllllCe Cllllfuaecl before the sleeper,
While the vain god laughs to behold what pam
Imaginary evils pve mankind t."
We may believe the account of Apuleius,
who tells us, that when he retired somewhat
intoxicated, the night produced grievous and
fierce imagest; without, in general, considering
• De Occult. Nat. Mirac. L ii. C. S.
+1\owe't Ulyue..
*Plut. SfmJIOio L. .w.Quat. to•
115
the body as the principal agent in the produc-
tion of dreams, as they certainly may originate
independent of its ioftuence in the 110le recol-
lection and energies of the mind, which in its
ordinary speculation revives the days of child-
~. recalls the friends and events of distant
periods by sudden and unexpected starts un-
connected with present sensations, places them
in circumstances in which we never have beheld
tliem, and in which they never have existed',
blends and diversities particulars fantastically
with novel combinations, and metamorphoses
persons into a thousand forms, who with Pro-
tean versatility appear to practise the frauds of
every shape.
" Dreams are but interludes which fancy maketo
When monarch Reason sleeps then mimic wakeo,
Compounds a medley of di..<jointed things,
Acourt of co&lers, and a mob of kings.
Light fumes are merry, grosser fumes are sad,
Both are the reasonable soul run mad ;
And many mooatrous things in dreams we see
That never were, nor are, nor ere can be.
Sometimes we but.rehear.., a former play, }
'l'he night restores our actions doae by day,
4s hii~Ulds in. aleep will ope11 for their pre7.
)16
Somrtimes bgottn thins• loog cut hebiocl
Rush forward to the brain 1111d come to mind.
'IRe nuraea legeoda are for truths receiv'd,
And the IDIIIl dreams bot what the boy belieYecL
Io abort the faree of dreams ia of a piece.
Chimeras all, and more absurd or less•."
If Mr. Hobbes speak of dreams universally,
the author does not agree with him, that dif-
ferent dreams are to be attributed to different
di&tempers, thoogh be feel no inclination to
refute the position, that lying cold may produce
dreams of fear, aa it would unquestionably
produce the symptom of fear, shivering, and
chattering teeth. We must allow for poetical
representation when we read that
" All dreams
Are from repletion and complection bred
From rising fumes of undigested food,
And noxioua humours that infest the blood.
When choler overftows, then dreams are bred
Of Sames, 1111d all the families of red ;
• Dryll~~~a Croa ~ha11cer'a Tale of the Coc:k .U ~a&.
1J7
1\ed dragou and red beats in sleep we view,
For humoun are distir.guiahed by their hue.
From hence we dream of war and warlike tbingfi.
And waapa aad hornets with their double atinp.
Choler adust congeals our blood with fear,
Then black ltulls tOSII us, and black derila tear.
In aangnine airy dreama aloft we bound,
With rheums oppress'd we sink, in riven drown'd;
The domiuating bumour makes the dream •."
The whole is, that our sleeping as our wak·
ing thoughts may be changed from their own
course by attention excited by the sensatiomof
the body, and those who would enjoy quiet
and pleasing dreams, should attend to the
preservation of the sobriety and temperance of
the body. The ancients were very particular
in their diet when they were desirous of ob-
taining such, and particularly regarded beans,
and the head of a polypus, as calculatCd to
produce perturbed slumbers ; and upon the
~~aD~e consideration the crude and undigestible
peacock mentioned by Juvenal u the cause of
'
• Dryden &om Chaucer's Coc~ aa4 Fos.
118
sudden and iatestate death matt ave ·&een
avoided •, as all who do not wish like the lazy.
glutton of Persius to
" Indalp tlaeir alolh, and batten with their aleep t,"
ahould avoid excess in turtle and venison, and
may do well to observe the rule of Leviuus
Lemnius, who recommends to sleep with the
mouth shut, which contributes to promote
regular digestion, excluding the too rapid in-
gress of the external air, and cherishing the
proper warmth of the stomach ; a precaution,
it is said, generally serviceable to weak stomachs,
as we see that a cough or the hickup is often
atopped by it when we are awake.
Dr. Hartley with more scope of aUowiUlce
tbau Hobbes, considerA dreams as reveries
deducible from three caUlles-natural impres-
• Sat. i. L t'-'1. Plutarch. ~~' J,,. Vol i. p. 56.
Edit. Wyttenbach.
t llic Satur. &c. Sat. v. L. 56. Dl')'d!'n's TransL
119
aions-reduudancy of watery hum0111'8--1nd
great heat. Whatever eff~t these may have iu
storing or colouring the mind in sleep, they
cannot be comidered as the primary caWte of
the operations which are displayed in dreams,
and which are here considt>red as the effects of
the exertion of the mental powers: even dreams
which are occasioned by the ephialtes, or night
mare, and which IUIIIUIIle a gloomy or ~rrific
character from the clouds raised up from
tatulency, repletion, or stagnation of the blood,
or cr11dity of the stomach, are in fact but
reftections of the mind affected in sympathy to
the sufferings of the body •.
The oight mare is well described· in the
following lin~ of Dryden's traoslation of
VirgiL
., And u when heavy sleep has closed the sight,
'l1le llioily fancy labours in the night;
• Yonng persoDB are particnlarly subject to this disorder,
they should be awakened ..ben they appear to be ad'~
lly it, and o.n chaujiag their poli.tion it will ~.
tiO
We lletm to ntn; and, deatitnte of fon:e
Our linking limbs fonake us in the course 1
In nin we heave for breath; in vain we cry; ~
'fhe nerves wtbraced their usual strength deny~
And OD the tongue the fait'ring accents diee•"
Mara, from whence our night mare is derived.,
was much feared in the old Gothic or Scandi-
navian superstition. In the Runic Theology it
was regarded as a spectre of the night which
seized men in their sleep, and suddenly deprived
them of speech and motion t ; it was vulgarly
called witch-riding, and in popular estin1ation
considered as the immediate suggestion of
fuligioous spirits incumbept on the breast.
As it appears then, that the mind may be
thus indirectly harassed by phantoms resulting
from repletion ; we agree with Cicero, that
our dreams will, in general, be most clear and
regular when we retire to bed without being
• N.Deid, B. xii.
t See Warton\ llisfbry of Poetry, Dmert. i.; aacl
:8ourne'a Popular Alltiquitiet.
~:=--.
121
loaded by meat and drink, and obtain the pure
thoughts which are
•• From light digestion bred."
Haller, and other writers, who conceive that
dreams ~o not inseparably accompany sleep,
suppose them to result from some strong·sti-
mulating cause, some forcible impression· ex-
'cited by the influence of undigested food, and
not to obtain in sound sleep. It appears, ·.
however, that we dream as much towards the
morning, though the impression of occurrences
is then less immediate, and the effects of in-
digestion less perceptible, than towards the
beginning of night.
Some physicians have asserted that we sleep
best after eating plentifully, and alledge that u
the ventricle is then full of blood, there is an
open paHSage to the aorta, but daily experience
may show the bad effects of going to sleep
with a full stomach, however the fumes which
ascend from it may operate as narcetic in
VOL, It. G
.,tupifying the brain. If we indulge even in a
nap afteJ," dinner, we shall be convinced that
though it may be useful to refresh exhausted
nature in hot countries, and wllere the food is
light, it is extremely heating and prejudicial,
where, as in northern climates, animal food is
eaten in great quantities.
Dr. Cheyne, who was a very distinguished·
physician, and effected a most remarkable
change in his own constitution by attention to
regimen, advises the valetudinary, the studious,
and contemplative, either to abstain entirely
from supper, or to restrict themselves to vege-
table food, and to take a due time before they
retire to bed after their meal •.
\Vhile we smile, therefore, at the pleasantry,
we cannot approve the advice of Robert Bur-
ton, who, in his Anatomy of Melancholy,
observes that some recommend to promote
sleep by music, or falls of water, or frication ;
* Essay. on Health, p. 40.
123
anil Andrew ·Borde by " a good drauglit of
stronge drinke, but I, says he, by a nutmeg and
-6.le, or a good draught of muscadine with toast
and nutmeg,· or a posset of the same •. The
fumes of indigestion certainly contribute to·
produce by their effect on the mind perturbed
and oppressi'Vo dreams, we shall, therefore, Qn
all accmll!ts dQ well to abide by the old rule
" That your sleep may be light,
Let your supper be slight."
A traditionary preeept handed down to us from
classical antiquity 'f:· ·
In sleep, it has. been said, either the mind
thinks not at all of what i.t knows and retains in
memory, or else it only attends to the corp.oceal
species of past objects reposited in the common
senaory, vivid representations of which· exc:im
altogether the same perceptio~ as are made by.
• P. t. §. !.
t Somnus ut sit levi11, sit tibi crena brevis.
Q 2
..
the impressions from external objects upon the
organs of sense by which they were first re-
ceived•. These representations, which are c:alled
dreamH, happen whenever a small portion of
tbe brain or common sensory is by the reftuent
motion of the spirits kept in a state of vigi-
lance, whilst all the rest of the empire of sense
and voluntary ~otion is silent and at rest. It
is, howev~r, by no means certain that the mind
is ever so dormant as not to be hamased or
amused by its own fancies, which in proportion
as they are more or less strong may be remem..
bered or forgotten. Those which excite velte·
ment and interesting sensations, as particularly
of fear and danger, as when
" In dreams we fearful precipices treacl,
Or ahipwreck'd labour to aome distant lhore• ;..
as likewise those of excessive exultation and
joy, are probably al'ft·ays remembered.
• Dryden•
Some writers have pushed the notion of
complexional dreams to a great extent, maiu-
taining that the min~ is' so tinctured with the
colouring of the predominating sentiments and
passions, that the choleric uniformly dream of
quarrelling, and the melancholy of _gloomy ob-
jects, while the Hanguiue aud cheertul exhibit
the vivacity of their thoughts in the most
agreeable dreams.
refl·
of:
the
wa~
wh·
mtc.
liti.·.
"'"'
COJ,
ex1
ha1!
n:
dt·
gl
CJ:
---
- -·
...._._.. -
--
..
127
the " rese1nblances of one thing to another• :"
they e:..hibit scenes, from the contemplation
of which instruction may be derived ; but
they cannot be considered as more than casually
predictive, or b.e understood to be subservient
to divination. They may enable us to judge
of the predominant features and widisguised
.. propensities of the mind, but ought not to excite
" superstitious fears and conceits. The futility of
dreams, with reference to futurity, is evident
from the. uncertainty of their import, and the .
variety of construction of which they have been
judged capable. The great Bacon justly ob-
serves, that the interpretation of natural dreams
does not stand upon a good foundation ; and.
nothing can be more capricious and win, than
• Dream, Droom, Dutch. The word is deriY~ by Cil·
sa~bon, with more ingenuity than truth, from Aril" 1'11
''"• 'fhe drama of life. Junius has dwelt on the conceit,
quoting the G~ek epigram ,.._ ••c • '•• &c.
" Li~ is a scene, a sport, d•pose yOilf eve,
Or careleu laugh, and leam your griefa to bear.''
G4
---
-
128
that the principles upon whic!h tbe notabfe
tlmners ot modem, as well as of ancient
limes, have practised ~eir vagabond art ; fore-
telling often, like the prophecy of Nostrada-
mus, meutioned in Quevedo's Visions,
" When the married shall marry,
TI1en thejealous shall be sorry;
Aud though fools will be talkinc.
Te keep their tongues walking.
No man ronaweJI:, I find.
But with hil elbows behiud...
Herodotus informs us, that the :itgyptians
were accustomed to notJl any prodigy, and to
observe the events whieh ensued, and when
any similar circum!4tance occurred, to expect a
similar result •. ·
From the general character of the dreams
indeed, which have been produced in the fore-
going chapters, it is evident, as Solomon re-
marked," that in the mllltitude of dreams there
• Lib. ii. C. St.
129
are divers \'anities." If soine occasional co-
incidences have appeared to prevail between
some of those which have been reported and
historical events, it is conceived, that th'ey may
in general be accounted for ou the grounds
which have been mentionejl ; or that they may
be referred to the casual concurrences that
might naturally happen between the fictions of
the· imagination and the incidents of many-
coloured life. Men, as Lord Bacon bas ob-
served, mark when they hit, and not when they
miss •. .Whatever the ancients have related,
says Fontenelle t, whether good or bad, was
liable to be repeated; and what they themselves
could not prove by sufficient reason, are at pre-
sent received on their authority. Even among
the ancients, however, we find the most philo-
sophical and reflecting mil}ds rejectiug dreams·
• Si nepe jactaveris quandoque Venerena jacies-Ifthe
dice be often tbro"n• they must solliC'times produce
doublets.
t lliatoire des Oracles. . ~
G 5
...
150
• fallat"ious, and deriding the art1 of interpre-
tation as arbitrary impositioos,
" Laa&laiul at thole wlao to tbeir ean iutill'd
Vain prulllilu. while they their pockell fill'd •."
The want, indeed, of any accredited inter-
preters, or Pure principles for the explication
of dreams, are considerations which justly
incline us to reject the idea of their being de-
signed to fumish any knowledge of futurity.
If we except the patriarchs and prophets~ em-
ployed u11der God's acknowledged dispensa-
tiou, who had understanding in visions and
dreams, u imparted by God for. great pur-
poaea," there is no sufficient .proof that any
peniOn was ever endowed with the gift of in-
~preting dreams "·ith any assurance. The
Magi, indeed, were consulted by· the P~r­
sians t; but their 11kill, \\"e .know, was little to
• Nil credo Augaribns.
t Dan.ii. Ch. t. llerocl. Polyhym.19. Cli.1Dt.t08.UO.
131
l>e depeniied upon, and the Greek and Roman
soothsayers were deceitful to a proverb.-
Alexander ab Alexandro mention11 one JU•
nianus Majus, who, by an unequivocal interpre-
tation, explained· dreams, and enabled, as he
.atates,manypersons to escapedeathortrouble*:
and others have been represented to have hat~
the same science ;· but we cannot pay mucla
attention to such accounts, collecttd by com•
pilers of marvellou~r tales, who produce no·au·
thority in support of their assettioDll.
Favorinus has justly observed of fortune-
tellers in_ general; that it is ahsl.Jrd to ~tten~ to
them, smce, as he states th~ constderat10n, ·
either they predict propitious or unfuvourable
circumstances : if they foretel the former, aml
are deceived, we incur the vexation of disap-
pointment; if they predict calamities which do
not happen, we suffer from unfounded apprC-
• Lib. i. C. 11.
Q 6
henaion. It, on the other hand, when their
predicti~ns are well founded, they foreshew
adversity, they only lead us to anticipate misery;
and where they promise prosperous events~
we gain but little io the view of objects o£
precarious attainment~ and in gathering pre-
Dlaturely the f1uits of future joy.
Cicero observes, that it is not even useful to
bow what is about' to happen, for that it is
ooly miaery t-. be rendered solicitou1, when we
cannot do any ~ that may avail us •. Let
os be satillfied with enjoying and profiting by
the present, which ia the only means bywhich
we can influence our futw"e destmies.
The. heathens were constantly tbe dupes of
tho11e who professed the vain arts of disco-
vering the future ; every oue might have said~ .
• " I full a prey to ev'ry prophet's sch~mes.
ADd tu old womeD who iDterpret dreams."
• De Natura Deerum L iii. C. 6.
lSS
Cicero illustrates, pleasantly enough,· the
views of interpreters of dreams, relating, that
a man dreamed there was an egg laid uadet
his bed; the soothsayer told.him,that where he
imagined be saw an egg,·: there W!lll a' trea·
sure ; and in digging be. di~overed. silver, and
SQme gold in the midst of it. Upon which,
in testimony of his gratitude, he brought some
silver to the soothsayer, who asked him, why
he did not give him some of the yolk also.
'Nothing could be more precarious than the
grounds upon which men formed their con·
jectures ; or mere superstitious than the opi-
nions and practices which they built upon them.
Herodotus relates of the Nazamenes, that.
·when they dreamed, they approached the mo.
nument8 of their ancestors, and there slept; ·
and were influenced by the images which oc-
curred, and these were probably considered
as the suggestions ofthose spirits which haunted
the receptades of the dead. Ghosts are
' 154
called by Homer, 11 people of dreams • ;" and
by Lycophron, 11 night-walking terrors.•
The number of dreams increased probably
with the anxiety which prevailed in the ap-
prehension of great events, and the solicitude
to avert their inauspicious intimations produced
many vain rites.
Tibullus speaks of dreams
" With thrice-consecrated cates to be repe11'4jl t."
The vaoities aad evil arts to which men had
recourse in the delusion of these errors, were
so soon displayed, that many of God's earliest
precepts were directed against them, forbidding
his people to use divination, or to be~ome
Dbservers of times, or enchanters, or con-
sultors with familiar spirits or wizards, or
necromancers•
• ll.ft,..O( .,..,... Odylll• .J..
t Lill. i. Eleg. 5. See Ovid's Metamorph. L. xii:. I. 10,
135
Philo informs us, that the law of Mose11
banished from the Jewish republic all persons
of this description, because they were ied by
specious and plausible conjectures, and were
unprovided by any sure and fixed maxims •.
Among the heathens were many whose good
sense and philosophy revolted at the follies of
tbis kind which prevailed. Jocasta says, m
the <Edipua Tyranous of Sophocles,
" Let not a fear perplex thee, <Edipus :
Mortals know nothing of futurity,
And these prophetic fears are all impo•tors t...
:M"enander ridiculed the disposition to be af,;.
fccted by the impressions which prevailed; "'e
are tortured, says he, if any one sneeze; we
are enraged, if any one speak in an unpleasant
tone; we are terrified at a dream, and seared
out of our wits if an owl seream.
• Lib. de 1\Ionan:b.
t Act. iii.
-
...
136
Quintiua exclaims in the words of Ennius,
" I Yalue uot the Manyan arb, nor stan
At ouaht that Yllin di...inera can impart ;
I lauah at him who aup:ury esteems,
Or lilte111 to ezpaliton of drea101:
They aor in art aoriCience are inapir'4.
Bot slana in anperatitio111 aervice hired.
Idlt', or mad, or poor, they fain woald shew
The path to others which themselvu don't know.
They ptoam.e richel, but a ree request,
Secure their portion, and aive you thereat."
Many, however, who might be supposed to
have been superior to all such crectulity,
appear to have been unable to shake oft' the
supentitious fetters of the times in which tbey
lived. Among the Romans, Tacitus, who is
jusdy regarded aa a philosophical historian,
but who sometimes betrays a confined habit
of thinking, as well as great want of informa-
tion, seems, with other writers, to have attri-
buted more to the Chalchean arts than they
probably merited. He appears particularly,
as well as Suetonius • 1 to. have credited the
• In August. 98. Dio. 55. p. 555. 58.
137
preten8ions of Thrasullus, who was the pr~
ceptor of Tiberius, when at Rhodes, in this
mysterious science. He relates, in the sixth
~ok of his Anoal'l, that Tiberius, as often as
be had occasion to consult in such concernS',
was accustomed to ascend a lofty part of his
house with the privity of one freedman, who
was ignorant of letters, and of robust body,
and who generally preceded the person whose
art Tiberiwl wished to prove, conducting him
through. broken and precipitous paths (for
the house bung over a rock), and who, if there
was any susa1icion of ignorance or fraud,. was
t-mployed to precipitate the diviner into the-
sea, that no informer agaioat his secret prac-
tices might exist.· When Thrasullos was con-
ducted over these rocks, after he had moved·
Tiberius by his answers, predicting hilt ac.;.
cession to the empire, and other fntlll'e events,.
with much skill, he was inquired of whether
he had also cast his own nativity,and what year
and day he was to have. He having measared
the position and spat:e of the stars, began first
to hesitate, and then to tremble ; ·and the more
..
he examioed, he appearid the more and more
filled .with wonder and fea~· ; and at length be
uclaimed, that an ambiguoua and almo.st the
btremeet.danger threatened him. Upon which
Tiberiua embraeed him, acknowledging his
lkill, and aauriog him of his safety ;· and re-
ceiviug 111bat he bad said u orac:nlar,. he af,.
terwarda held him IUDOJig hia intimate friends.,
Upon which relatioa the historian professes,
that after hearing theee and 111c:h like aceouata,
lae ia at a loss to determiae whether mortal
aftiUrs ron on by. fate ad immutabfe necessity,
or by.cbaac:e; and .after diec:ouning c:oncerning·
...n..s opiaioas aot easily explained, he re-
pre~enta it as a general persuasion not inc:on-
aiattnt wi~ the convic:tiooa of most men, that
the future events of every man'• life are pre--
destined from the beginning; but that aome
tbinp happen ditrereatly from what is pre-
dicted, through the error of those who pro-
c1aim what they are ignorant of; that so tlte
C.me of the art is destroyed, of which his ewn
~ former ages furnilhed ill-.strious proofs ;
l39
since, as he adds, the empire "rat promi!ed te
Nero by the son of the same Tbrasullu.s. ·
All that can be said upon this subject is,
that as the heathens were not enlightened by
revealed religion, we cannot wonder that they
wandered into all the labyrinths of error ; and
it perhaps may btl admitted, ·that their delu..
lions were increased by the arts and suggesti~ns
of evil spirits, who, before the coming o£
Christ, seem to have ruled with coDIIiderable
ascendancy in every department of superstition,
and possibly even promoted a deluaive confi-
dence in the arts of divination, by communi-
eating sQme intimations of auch events as their
knowledge or sagacity might discover or
conjecture.
The arts of divination, therefore, and their
professors in every department, appear to de-
serve nothing but contempt; aod attention to
them is more especially reprehensible, since
the dift"usioa of knowledge which· .has been
produced b7 tbe ~...mullication of ~e Gospel.
I
I
I
\
I-
I
I
\
i
L
140
'Their profe110n indeed, have been jultly ridi.
euled,
" ~y may attempt to tellaa
What Adam dnamt of, when his bride
Came from the closet ia his aide ;"
but it is extreme folly to 110ft'er them to harass
our minds, or to mislead us to a delusive con•
fidence in their pretences. The intelligence
which they furniah amount& to little more than
what Quevedo, in his harmless Discovery col...
leeted, who teUs us,
" From aec:11nd causes this l gather,
Nought ahall befall us good or bad,
Either upon the land or water,
B11t what the peat Disposer wilb.'"
JE dreams have any foundation, and fore.
shew events which must happen, there must
in general be but little use in contemplating
their prophetic scenes. If they predict ciF-
eumstaneea which are contingent and condi-
tional, their accomplishment can be inftuenced
only by an adherence to the general rules of -
the·Gospel, and we should therefore endeavour
141
that our faith stand not in the wisdom of man,
but in that of God ; and reject all those indica-
tions as dangerous, by which artful men have
imposed on credulity, as
" Richard laid plots by drunken prophecies, libels, au~
drr.ams,
To set his brother Clarence arul the king
lD deadly bate ODe llfJ&inst the other.''
The regard paid to dreams has generated,
in modern as well as ancient times, many silly
practices and extravagant contrivances, now
insensibly falling into neglect and oblivion.
· .Among the fanciful arb \'1.hich were practised
in the seclusion of the convent, the Franciscan
mode was remarkable ; like many other cus-
toms, it originated in pagan folly. 'Thesegood
fathers, in imitation of ancient priests, (who,
aft~r performing their religious rites and IBa:i-
fices, laid down on the skins of the victims in
order to obtain dreams,) were accustomed to
c:oo1mit themselves to sleep on mats up~n
which some ecstatical brother bad slept, ex-
142
pecting, after the performance of their racri~
fices of the mass, to -be favoured with the sug-
geatioos of inspiration.
Some writer of natural magic has pre-
scribed perfumes for the procuring of pleasant
dreams, and some have represented prophetic
dreams to be attainable by the operation of
such physical impressions as ,·egetable sub-
stances may produce. Flax, flea-wort, and
other productions, are mentioned as efficacious
in this respect • ; and probably they produce
as good effects. as the fasting on St. Agnes'
Day, a custom which originated in a pretended
mirdde that occurred ·to the parents of the
saint when lamenting at her tomb; or as that
of depositing the first cut of the cheese at a
lying-in, called " tht" groaning cheese," under
the pillow, which was supposed to cause
lovers to dream of the objects of their af-
·• Baeon, vol. iii. p. 195.
149
fection, a practice now remembered only m
\he politer superstition of the bride cake.
There is a connexion in all these follies, and
those who yield to the impressions excited by
dreams, may soon be led to hang up, agree-
ably to ancient custom in the North_, holy
shoes in stables to counteract the malevolence
of the night-mare; or in the same bias of re-
flection to watcli with solicitude the favillous
particles of a snuff of candle, the filmy ap-
pendage of the grate, or the bouncing coffin
from the fire: to regard with anxiety the spilling
of salt, or the position of the knives and fo.-ks:
despi~ing such trifles, the enlightened mind
will learn,
" Not with perplexing thoughts
To interrupt the sweet of life, from which
God hath bid dwell far ofF all anxious cares,
And not 1noleat us, unless we ourselves
Seek them with wand'ring thoughts and notions vain.
But apt the mind in fancy is to rove
Uncheck'd, and of her roving is no end,
Till wam'd, or by expt rience, she Jearn
'Ibat aot to know at large of things remote
r--· ...._.8MIMtle. l.ttobow
That whicla hdoR ulies in daily life,
Is tile prime wild._ w'bat is -.re is f'ame
Or emptma., w food impertiaenc:e,
.,..,.. readen a ia .....dial- eaaeena,
Uopractis'd, ~d,alldaaill to a«k•."
Dreams are c:oosidered in Scripture as tLe
moat of shadows, and human life, in its
8eetiog and empty pursuits, is e:t.hibited in its
~est shew when compared to a dream.
• We are such stall' as dreams 8ft made of;
A liltle life is encled with a sleep t."
• Paradise .Lost.
-t Tempest.
tU
~F TB~ 118-J 0.1' .l'lOTlT-lOUI .DUAMf ... ,
LlTJt&ATI1.&~.
. .
Ta.t."l' dreams, wbich were CODSiderecl in tbeir
......., - .. Bpwtaat, Aould tJe imitated ill
iciilliouttepreaeutatieosby-ancientaad modera
Wfttelll,...U e~ with 6e geaer.l objedt'
of lilleFalul'e, 'VI!bieh.miglltt»e expected to avail·
illelf' f)f -the oflmlgest and mofft popular im-
Pfl•--· DiviRe ......_, nch aetoally were
imp.te4 to .Ged'e Hlftllta, formed a buie,bf·
G,~Midillo GR thia .,.jeot, t..nded dowa by
tladitieaa, oil ...... hy eapentitiou addi-
tiaut die ~of ·• ~ane ~idt beiags .
of the .apiti- .-w, M4l •ieh oijects ef
fear or aft"ectioa, thoaap depaited flooa life,·
... aatural to the human mind, and becanM
VOL. II. H
·.
die t'oundation pf much religion~ ap.,......._
among the heatheos. Thole therefore wW
11011ght, either to amuse the fancy, or to iaatruct
the judgment, naturally employed the agreeoo
able fictio111, which they knew were best ~
eulated to engage the imagination. Haace
dmoe dreams became the CODitaDt appendages
of the heathen m)1hology, and accounts, real
or fictitious, of comm~tioua ia vilioa, were
interwoven ia every productioa.
JnformatioDwhich \VU superior to the Wblgar
philosophy o( the time, modelti.J iatimated itl
diacoveriel aa augeationa imparted'by rev-..
tion to the· mind, and coajecturef.cenc:eminc
the ioterala and future dispea•tioaa of the
invisible world were delivered with •trWuc·
impression aa dirioe oommunicatious.. ·If· a
warning was to be conveyed, wbu ao a&'eCtiDB
as the exhortation of a departed friend!· If
advice was to be given, what 10 per111181ive u
the .voice of a revered character, whieh bact'
loDg carried great weight ! · · ..-~~~
147
~· ~Sach .machiaery was particularly .calculated
for works of imagination, ~~ the -poeiDS of
antiquity, u well as those of modern times.
were ftequeotly decorated with itS orua·
aaenta.
i It ia perhaps doubtful,.whether the sublime
oflsion delcribed in the fonrth c:h1pter of the·
Book of Job, and which has been cited in a
former part of thiS work, .is to be regarded as
a real BCeDe imparted to the mind of this
righteous 111811, or .. merely·avehicle for the
Jeligiou iaatruc:tion which is communicated ia ·
ita aWful deacriptioia•
. A very early example of a dream designed
t~ eoliven poetry, ia furnished in the Diad of
Ho~J!ei', which was possibly introduced. not
~.Y as ornamental, but with .some "View of
~osing the danger of listening to ambiguous
qgestions in sleep. It represents Aguuemnon
·~ deluded by a promise of victory, if be .
llaould lead out all the Grecians to battle,_.;lDd
· B 2
TJ.e~-udeaiW "Jtlie..-,.
remind us of the particulars 'recorded iD tU
twenty-eecoud chapter of the Fll8t Book of
¥¥9, in 9hieh AMb appein .o· )MJVebeen
11duceclb,y a l,U.Cepirit C. -....boa.
.,
HiMr-. lliMt oratlltre;. likewiJe,. were &,
110 m..,. iMooaible tA \he 'Mlue ~ oa
their •orb lty embclliah--. • iat• .._r
t\leythereforeinven&ei.u.ilu~,.-iita.
probable, that maoy of the ~ wliidir. ..._
been exBOlined in this work, were no more
gt~auililll tlia the .,...._ aaeriW tlllf 6-
. tingaided c}laracttn, .IH!ing o.isio.Qy :..I,.
a1reeable illveatiOIUI ..-.iaui lor lh•_...
e1fect.
Instances of these •ay be fond ill the •
lebratcd ~ of the.dlliae of He...._,far..
nished iQ elw MemCJ&Uili& of ~ •
..,_
·.. -""
mthat of Lucian, \vhicb was probabfy desiptd
aa a·humourous imitation of it.
If, however, some dreams·are 110 interwoven
with historical accounts, thal it is doubtful
~hetber tb~y are related as real or not, there
are many which are evidently employed as or-
namental modes of instruction. Such is the
dream, for instance, which is described to
have ·expressed the anger of the gods against
Numenius, who had pried into the Eleusinian
mysteries, and published the secrets of phi-
losophy. This was said to have represented
the Elelisinian goddesses meretriciously attired,
and sporting before a public brothel; who,
upon inquiry into the cause of such indecent
conduct, informed Numeni~s, that they re-
lented his having driven them from retirement,
and expolled them to the common gaze·of
men •. It is evident, tbat this was only a
reproof of the folly of exposing the mysterie1
• Macrob. in Somnum Sc:ijliU~. L. ii. C. f .
. us .
--
150
.t a lioearioua aperetitioa to' publit ...,_..
'\'ersioa ; a m-...-e 'elY impolitic and illjllrieu
to the interests of those who lived by its s~&p-
port; aad --~tile ......plio..C.~
., Calliuiacbus., ef thoee wile>~> wiah ~­
Udacity, veatuecl to coatelllpiata tb• ._...
.piled charma of Mioerva *.
Oae of the moat bea~ -~ •mploye4
by aaf.ieat writen ia Pl1888 ia that of .Ciee~"O.
written probably ia imitation ol one of. Plato.
In thia, wl&ich is eatided the Dreaaa of Sc:ipi0p
abe· &maa ·ora&pr t hu cqpveye41 ·the ...
aubllme ~~ oooceraialg. many po~ itt
natural phil080phJ- ~nd the ~ortality of thtt
aoul. .Aiid 'the .~cJency of tbe work wu tQ
encourage a pa~ri~c atrectioll (w th~ cowatr:J
of u man's birt!t,. an~ a copttpp,t. of ~
p~rf, 'Apon principle& wb.i.cb, IOQlqtimea al0108f
·.· . . - .
&. . .. • ,
,. . It ,· ' . . ..
. . :•~ ..,,.., ........." .:oilfl« ..., ~-~·
t De ~p~b..Ub. vi.
·.:- ··: . . , .~;,,·
.... ;;.
·, ... ,
~SJ
~.PP~._·t<t ~ whidl ~~ifJ lt.as ~!'I
~teet.
So~t) wri~rs, i~ is true, h.~v~· ctonceiv~ ~<;~
&ftio,rq Ifill ~~itable to th~ gnwit~ a.nd
t.rut~ o£ pbilosophiqi inJtrucUc;lll ~ blrt th~
cJr.eam in q~estion \s vincli~ted iq ,{.,.e}iJ,b.Q.fll~
~OJ~lllleotiry by Ma(!rc;.b,us.a w)lo c:()ns~de~s i~
as an euga;i~ :veil under whic;h ~!Jtp ~·l b«;
usefqll~ pr~nte4 to the q~ind.
We h~tve ~dy ohlerved "t s6ie~
length on those divine dreams, wb.ich we,e .im~
parted in evidence of the authority and in-:
atruction of the evaugeli"' diap~ti<>.._... cmd
have OQD~d~ the~) ll,f fwq~bed ex~l~veiJ
bl 8\lpport o£ Revelll~~' WJd _,. h.~Wiqg ceaaecl
wit.b. ·the Qthe.r ,wiq,pa}qqa te•~o~i\ls ·of
Chriatiaqil)'. . . . "
~e. pemJilSio~,.. ltqwet~, ()( Fet~w.
intellig~nc:e . being -=o~mliD.ita~ :in dr~~
ball c;~~~. 1'9"~.\7 w ~w ·., all
-
times, that Christian writers, who llave re-
ported and invented dreams of prete11ded in-
apiration, have ob~ined more credit and suc:-
ceu than they have merited ; and however
little claim to reprd they may be thought to
Lave when philoaophicaUy examined, they have
.t least been allowed so much authority in
popular estimation, that they have at all times
been employed, not only with a view to im-
poae on credulity, but as ingenious fictions
agreeable to common apprehension, framed
for the expression of instruction in an alle-
corical manner.
·Among those which are of' earlier produc-
tion, we may uotice·the Shepherd of Hermas,
a moral vision of th~nd century, in which
are represe•,ted t~e characters and circum-
lltances of the (:bu~'&b at that time ; and many
other instances might'lie prod11ced, if it were
lleeessary, from works of later times, none of
which, perhaps, are more ingenious and agree-
able, than thole which ha1e heeD publiahed in
. .
'··
. '
J5S
this coantry; u particularly·the allegoncal
visioll8 and dreams which have appeared in·the
Spectator., and other periodical papeis.
The consideration of' these belongs more
properly to the abjecta of genenlliteratun.
JBB El!ID.
