{"name":"Book Of Knowledge 2547","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1808__pater_lilly___book_of_knowledge.pdf","mytitle":"Book Of Knowledge","mylang":"de"}
Book of Knowledge :
TREATING OK THE
WISDOM OF THE ANCIENTS
IN FOUR PARTS.
I. Shewing' the various
snd wonderful Operations
of the Signs and Planets,
and other celestial Constel
lations, on the Bodies of
Men, &c
II. Prognostications for
ever necessary to keep the
Body in Health ; with sev
eral choice Receipts in
Physic and Surgery.
III. An Abstract of the
Art of Physiognomy and
Palmestry, together with
the Significations of Moles,
and the" Interpretations of
Dreams, &c.
.IV. The Farmer's Cal
ender, containing, 1st.
Perpetual prognosticatfcjfii
for Weather. 2d.:Thc\
whole Mystery of
'
H**a-
bandry. 3d. The corfif>fete
and experienced Farrier
and Cowleech, *rtt
WRITTEN BY ERRA PATER,
'
A JevJ^ Doctor in Astronomy and Physic, born in' Ifothary
near Mount Olivet, in Judea. .
•-;
• -
Made English by W. Lilly, Student in Physic&Astrology
TO fTBlCO- IS ADDED, 7~'-
*
The true Form of all sorts of Hills, Bonds, Counter-
Bonds, Indentures, Letters of Attorney and Licence.
Deeds of Gift, Bills of Exchange, Sec!
NEW-YORK,
PUBLISHED BY EVERT DUYCKINCK.
110. rEARL-STREST-
1W6.
BOOK OF KNOWLEDGE;
I through my glass the planets spy,
Secitewrevotve th«jstarry sky.
TO THE "READEK
DESIROUS OF KNOWLEDGE.
THE
soul of man
being a
spark of immortali
ty infused by its Almighty Maker, does still
retain a relish of its original, that it covets know
ledge above all other things, not confining its spe
culation to earth, but towering to Heaven, it
searcheth out the Stars and all their various influ
ences ; nay, rifles all the Constellations, unlock
ing all the secret cabinet of futurity, and diving
into the vast abysses of things unknown for man.
Dame Nature*s secret working doth inspect,
He knows how to advise, what to direct :
Into the world, By art and science Brings,
And searcheth out the hidden birth of things.
The unp/oTu'd earth be to his will subdues.
And all it bringsforth he knows how to use ;
He seeks out Jove : his thoughts will not be try'd
In vainfrom him the Stars themselves do bide.
Now to satisfy the inquisitive nature of the soul
of man, is the design of this book, which will
gratify his understanding with the knowledge of
the most hidden secrets of art and nature, which
the wisdom of the ancients have hitherto conceal
ed, but here made plain to the meanest
capacities.
THE
Book of Knowledge :
TREATING OF THE
WISDOM.OF THE ANCIENTS.
PART I.
Shewing the various and wonderful Operations of the
Signs and Planets, and,other celestial Constellations,
on the Bodies of Men, Women and Children, and
the mighty influences they have upon those that are
born under them.
ONE part of the wisdom of the ancients con
sisted in the observation of several days and
times, and from thence foretelling such good and
bad events, as from long experience they found
always to follow : And therefore revising what
ancient astrologers .have said, which I found very
defective, I have myself made an exact judgment
of what should befal men, women, and children,
by the day of the werk on which the first day of
the year happened to fall : as if it happened to
fall on a
Sunday."] The winter following will be pleasant,
the summer seasonable ; there shall be plenf c!:
fl. c
6 The Book of Knowledge
corn, though the weather in harvest will prove
but indifferent : fruit shall very much abound, and
there will be a
very good seed time following the
harvest ; flocks of sheep and great cattle shall in
crease and prosper ; but there shall be robberies in
most places, and perhaps war before the end of the
year ; Also it denotes the death of prelates and
princes, dissention and discord among men, but
not of long continuance,
Monday.] If New-Year's day fall on Monday,
expect a hard and cold winter, and a wet summer,
and as a consequence of that, many diseases ; the
fruits of the earth very indifferent, which will
produce great scarcity in some places : Also de
notes the downfall of the gentry, and many mar
riages among the common people.
Tuesday.] If on Tuesday, the winter shall be
wet and the summer very dry ; hay will be scarce,
but corn indifferently plenty. Many factions and
diyisions among those that sit at the helm, and a
great mortality both of men and beasts.
Wednesday.] If on Wednesday, it denotes the firdt
part of the winter very hard and severe, but the
last part very mild and gentle, a seasonable spring
and plenty of fruit ; but great sickness and many
distempers about autumn Many fables, with
false news, shall be spread abroad, and much dis
content among the common
people.
Thursday. \ If on Thursday, you may look for a
hard winter, but a seasonable and moderate spring i
and a great increase of the fruits of the eartli :
sheep and great cattle shall also prosper much, but
The Book of Knowledge. 7
towards autumn expect to hear of war and blood
shed abroad, and troubles at home occasioned by
coitests and divisions among the clergy.
Friday, [lion Friday look for an extreme hard
winter, a late spring, and a
dry summer ; corn
very dear, and fruit very dear, very high winds,
occasioning ship-wrecks; cattle will die generally:
women will have very hard labors, and most
others very loose and licentious ; thunder and
lightning will be very frequent and do much mis
chief. '
Saturday.] If on Saturday, the winter shall be
moderate, the spring windy, but the summer shall
be both seasonable and fruitful ; corn shall be
cheap, and fruit plenty!1.
Of Astrology : what it. is.
ASTROLOGY
is the art that teaches us the
influence and effects of the Celestial Plan
ets upon the bodies of men, women and children,
which by their various aspects, positions and con>
figuration;;, do foreshew the changes and muta
tions both of particular bodies, and also of king
doms and states.
Some would confound Astronomy and Astro
logy together, which are in truth different things :
And both have their particular use and excellence.
Astronomy teaches the various and different mo
tions of the planets, and astrology shews their in
fluence and effects ; but now that of the signs and
planets more distinctly. And first the twelve signs
of the Zodiac, Avhich govern the several parts of
man's body, and are summed up in verse.
8 The Book of Knowledge.
A description of the twelve Signs in Verse, shewing
what part of the Body each rules.
MAN's
head and face Heaven's ram obey,
His neck the neck-strong bull doth sway,
The arm-twining twins guide hands and arms :
Breasts, sides and stomach Cancer charms,
The lion rules his back and heart,
Bowels and belly's Virgo's part ;
Reins, haunches, naval, Libra tends,
Bladder and secrets Scorpio befriends ;
The Book of Knowledge. 9
The half-hors'd bowman rules the thighs,
And to the kid our knees suffice ;
Onr legs are but the butler's fees,
The fish our
footsteps oversees.
The Names and Characters of the twelve
Sig?is.
THE
first is Aries Tf* This sign governs the
head and face, and is by nature cold and dry.
The second is Taunts y . This sign governs
the neck and throat, and is by nature cold and dry-
The third is Gemini U- This sign governs the
hands and arms, and is hot and moist.
The fourth is Cancer 05 • This sign governs
the breast and stomach, and is cold and moist.
The fifth is Leo Q. This sign governs the
heart and back, and is hot and dry.
The sixth is Virgio iif • This sign governs the
bowels and belly, and is cold and dry.
The seventh is Libra S: . This sign governs
the reins and loins, and is hot and moist.
The eighth is Scorpio v\ . This sign governs
the secret members, and is cold and dry.
The ninth is Sagittary $ . This sign governs
the thighs and hips, and is hot and dry.
The tenth is Capricorn vf. This sign governs
the knees and hams, and is cold and dry.
The eleventh is Aquarius zz. This sigh gov
erns the legs, and is by nature hot and moist.
The twelfth is Pisces X • This sign governs
the feet, and is cold and moist.
iv The Book of Knowledge.
Besides the names and characters of the twelve
signs, they have other names and characters also
by which they are prescribed and called. As Aries
is called the Ram, Taurus, the Bull, Gemini the
Twins, Cancer the Crab, Leo the Lion, Virgo the
Virgin or Maid, Libra the Balance, Scorpio the
Scorpion, Sagittary the Centaur or half-hors'd
Bowman, or the archer, his character being half
man half horse, with bow and arrows, Capricorn
the Kid or
goat, and Pisces the Fish.
Of the Triplicity of the Tzvelve signs.
THESE signs are also divided by astrologers
in their several triplicities according to then-
several natures ; -thus Aries, Leo and Sagittary, be
ing all hot and dry, are called the fiery tripiicity ;
Gemini, Libra and Aquarius,being all hot and moist,
are called the airy triplicity ; axid_Cancer, Scorpio
and Pisces, being all cold and moist, are called the
watery triplicity.
Of the twelve Houses.
THE knowledge and the nature of the houses
is reckoned by the ancients a
great mystery,
and that which requires great study ; for there is
nothing relating to man's life but it is foreshewn
by the nature of one of the twelve house-, whose
significations aje briefly summed up in the follow
ing verse.
The first house shews life,the second wealth doth give,
The third how brethren, the fourth how parents live.
The Book of Knowledge. i l
Issue the fifth, the t:xth diseases bring,
The seventh wedlock, and the eighth death's sting,
The ninth religion, the tenth honor shews,
Friendship the eleventh, and the twelfth our woes.
The first house is called the ascendant: because
there the sun ascends the horizon, let it be in what
climate it will ; and in astrological judgment is
called the house of life.
The*second house is the succedent to the ascend
ant, and is the signification of riches and wealth.
The third house is the signification of brethren,
kindred and alliance.
The fourth house signifies the parents of the na
tive, and all possessions, and lands of inheritance.
The fifth house is the succedent of the angel
of the earth, which is thefourth house, and there
fore signifies mirth and jollity, which is usually the ■<
effects of the birth of children, which is also sig
nified by this house.
The sixth house is cadent from the* north angel,
and is significant of sickness and diseases.
The seventh house is the angel of the west, and
is significator of wedlock, and also oflaw-suits and
quarrels.
The eighth house is succedent from the angel
of the west, and signifies death.
The ninth house is cadent, and signifies religion
and learning.
The tenth house signifies dignity, honor, and
preferment. ;
The eleventh house hath significations of friend
ship, amity, and hope.
1 2 The Book of Knowledge.
The twelfth house signifies misery, poverty,
private enemies, imprisonments, and disgrace.
How many Persons may know under
which ofthe twelve Signs they are born.
HE
that is born under Aries is of a nature hot
and dry, of a loud voice, inclined to color j
and if a woman, subject to barrenness, or at least
will have but few children, and those sickly, and
perhaps wanting in some of their members ; very
desirous of command, and loving to be above
others: such have also black eyebrows, thick
shoulders, and are of a dark swarthy complexion,
and of a middle stature.
Those born under Taurus are of a cold and
dry constitution, inclined to melancholy, one that
is sickly, and loves pleasure, yet is very chaste, ho
nest and religious ; seldom angry, but once pro
voked seldom reconciled ; of short stature, but
well <-et ; short legs, big buttocks, a bull's neck,
wide mouth, and black hair.
Persons born under Gemini are hot and moist,
of fair and sanguine complexions, and affable and
courteous in their behavior, endued with wisdom
and understanding, and accomplished with ele
gance Qf speech, and a
good delivery, having
brown hair, brisk and quick eyes, a
large breast,
long arms, hands and legs ; and a tall, streight,
and well-set body.
Those born under Cancer which is a watery sign,
are cold and moist, and of a
phlegmatic constitu
tion ? of a low stature, blackish hair, and a great
I he Book of Knowledge, \ 3
belly. If it be a woman, it shews she shall have
many children.
Those that are born under Leo (which is hot
and dry, and a
sign of the fiery triplicity ) are very
choleric, of a shrill voice, and viciously inclined ;
much addicted to anger, and very subtle ; ifa wo
man, barren, of a
generous and free temper, very
valiant and courageous, of yellowish or flaxen hair,
broad shouldered, great head and eyes, of middle
stature, but lusty body.
Persons born under Virgo, which is a
sign of
the earthly triplicity, are cold and dry, of a me*
lancholy constitution but of a free countenance,
very courteous of behavior, and yet very self-
opinioned ; the body somewhat spare, but of a
good proportion, of a brown complexion, but
black hair, and large eyes.
Those born under Libra, which ts a
sign of the
airy triplicity, are hot and moist, and of a
sanguine
complexion, fair, and of a
good proportion, of
homely visage, well favored, light brown hah ,
pleasant arid courteous, rosy cheek, and amiable
countenance, somewhat inclined to tallness, and
very slender. But if a woman she will have but
few children.
Persons born under Scorpio, which is the sign
of the watery triplicity, are by nature cold and
moist, and consequently phlegmatic, and of a sick
ly constitution, yet very fruitful, and withal vici
ous. f;:i/ of countenance, but of an
angry disposi
tion, i-r.d many times croulred in their bodies as
we\l as in their tempers : they are also of a sand
's
14 The Book of Knowledge.
colored hair, and of a serious and grave counter-
nance, very much reserved, but at the same time
false and deceitful ; the stature is commonly small
but the body is pretty well set.
Those that are born under Sagittary, which is a
sign of the fiery triplicity, are hot and dry, chole
ric, tall of stature, hard favored, but fair ; brown
hair which will shed betimes. If a woman she
will have but few children, and those very weak
but ingenious and exceeding crafty.
Persons born under Capricorn, which is a
sign
of the earthly triplicity, are cold and dry, and of
a
melancholy constitution, and a
savage and cruel
nature ; and much inclined to letcherjk; the body
deformed, of a swarthy complexion, short of sta
ture, dry and lean ; the face also lean and thin,
the color pale and wan, and generally broad fa
vored.
Those born under Aquarius, which is a
sign of
the watery triplicity, are hot and moist, and of a
sanguine complexion, and of a sweet and affable
condition, with a countenance very amiable and
lovely ; of a free and pleasant temper, "and of a
chaste, honest and religious nature, of a fair vis
age, middle stature, well shapen body, and bright
hair, virtuously inclined, and always conceited.
Those born under Pisces, v hich is a
sign of the
watery triplicity, are cold, moist and phlegmatic,
of a short stature, often crooked, deformed, and
. ill composed both in body and mind, having a
great pale face, and wan
complexion, thick shoul
dered, short necked, and stooping.
The Book of Knowledge 1 5 ,
By these things persons may know under what *
sign they were born, if they will compare them
selves with what is here written.
Of the seven Planets, their characters, names , 'na- I
tures, and in what times they make their Revo
lutions.
HAVINGspoke of the several signs, with the
twelve houses, and of their natures and sig
nifications, I come now to speak of the seven pla
nets, or eratic stars, who in their several orbs, or
circles, pass through the twelve houses of the Zo
diac in more or less time, according to the large
ness or smallness of th°ir several orbs ; and as these
planets pass through the twelve signs, so
they are
said to be in such and such houses ; thus the com
plement of one
year, for on the tenth of March,
at which time the spring and most propefAy the
year begins, the sun enters in Aries, and having
passed through that, in April he enters into Tau
rus, May into Gemini, and so of the rest. And
according to the houses or
signs into which any of
the planets are, so
they are said to be dignifiedor
debilitated ; for when a
planet is in a
sign of its
own nature, it is dignified ; but if in a
sign of a
contrary nature to its own, it is then debilitated,
or made weaker ; and according to therr position,
their effects and operations are wonderful upon
the bodies of men and women ; but 1 shall give
their characters, names and nature.
The first is Fj Saturn, who is by nature cold
and dry, of a
swarthy, dull obscure color, like I
| 16 The Book of Knowledge.
unto lead ; he makes his revolution through the
twelve signs in thirty years.
The second is % Jupiter, who is by nature hot,
t moist, and temperate, he appears very bright and
shining, and is of a warm nature : he makes his
revolution in twelve years.
The third is e$ Mars, of nature hot and dry,
'
he appeareth of a fiery color, and maketh his re-
1 volution in twenty three months.
. The fourth is 0 Sol, whose nature is hot and
'
dry, and temperate : his glorious brightness is
sufficiently known to all. He makes his revolu
tion in three hundred and sixty-five days, six
hours and twenty-four minutes.
The fifth is <j> Venus, of nature cold and moist,
the most bright and splendid star in all the firma
ment, she moveth equally with the Sun, though
her motion seems to be very irregular, and makes
her revolution at the same time.
The sixth is £ Mercury, whose nature is cold
and dry, variable, he is situated very near the Sun,
and is rarely seen ; he makes his revolution, at
the same time as the Sun and Venus.
The seventh is ([ Luna, or the moon, which is
the last or lowest, and whose nature is cold and
moist, every one knows she is of a
pale color,
and she maketh her revolution in twenty-seven
days and eight hours.
"
Having given you a br^f account of the
\. name and nature of the seven planets, I here add
f an account of the five aspects also, which are
these.
The Book of Knowledge. 17 \
Of the Jive Aspects.
1- 6 CONJUNCTION, which is when two pla- \
nets are in one
sign, of thirty degrees.
% ifc Sextile, which is when two planets, are dis- ,
tant two
signs or sixty degrees.
3. n Quartile, which is when two planets are
distant three signs, or
ninety degrees.
4. £ Trine* which is when two planets are dis
tant four signs, or one hundred and twenty de
grees.
5. <P Opposition, which is when two planets are
distant six signs, or one hundred and eighty de
grees.
These are also two opposite points in the eclip
tic line, called Nodes, which we commonly call
the & Dragon's Head and <ft Dragon's Tail.
I would now show you the various effects and
operations of the seven planets, as
they are posited
in the several houses, but I think it most necessa-
sary to
give you an explanation of several terms
used in the astronomical and astrological sciences.
An explanation of the Circle of the Sphere, and some
other Terms in
Astronomy, for the easier under
standing of this Book, and for further Information
ofthe Reader.
r I *»
HE Equinoctial Circle, Equator, or Equinox,
1 is a
great circle or line equally distant from
•tSetwb-poles of the world, dividing the sphere in {
#tije iffifct.
'
Zodiac, is a broad oblique circle crossing the \
b 2
1 8 The Book of Knowledge.
Equinoctial in two opposite places, viz. inthebe-
f
inning of Aries and beginning of Libra, so that
alf declining towards the north, the other towards
,k the south : and in this circle is comprehended the
;|j] twelve constellations of signs, every sign contain-
il mS tmrty degrees in length and twelve in breadth.
m Note also, That the first are northern signs, and
i'the six last southern signs.
•
The Ecliptic Line, is a line imagined to
go along
! the midst of the Zodiac, as a
girdle out of which
the sun never
goeth ; but the moon and other
planets are sometimes on one side, and sometimes
.
on the other side, which is called their latitudes,
only the fixed stars alter not their latitude, whe
ther great or small ; but the longitude of a star is
in. the arch or part of the Ecliptic in degrees, be
tween the beginning of Aries, and the circle which
passeth through the body of the star ; where note,
,
that all circles of the sphere or heavens, whether
they are
large or small, h-.ve three hundred and
.
sixty degrees allowed to each of them.
I Colures are said to be two great moveable cir-
^cles crossing each other at the poles of the world,
1one cutting the Equinox at the beginning of Aries
and at the beginning of Libra, and the other cut
ting the Ecliptic at the beginning of Cancer and at
the beginning of Capricorn; and so
dividing the
i
;,globe into four equal parts.
Horizon is a
great circle which divideth the up-
iper hemisphere, that is, the upper half of the
world from the lower, we being always supposed
■ «to be in the midst.
The Book of Knowledge. 1 3
Meridian is a
great circle passing through the
poles of the world, and the poles of the horizon,
called the Zenith and the Nadir (which are two
points, one directly over our heads, the other
directly under our
feet) on which the sun is al
ways just at noon ; and to
go directly north and
south, the meridian is- changed ; but to go east
and west it is changed to sixty miles either way,
and make one
degree, or four minutes of time dif
ference under the Equinox, viz. sixty miles east
ward, it is noon four minutes sooner, and sixty
miles westward four minutes later.
Tropics are
supposed to be two lesser circles, pa
rallel with the Equinoctial, and distant from it on
either side, twenty-three degrees, thirty-one min -
utes each ; the Ecliptic line touches the Tropic of
Cancer on the north side of the equinoctial, and,
it touches the tropic of Capricorn on the south
side thereof so that the fun hath its motion be
tween these two circles. •
The Arctic Circle is equally distant from the
north pole, as the Tropics are distant from the
Equinox twenty-three degrees, thirty-one min
utes.
The Antarctic Circle is the same distancefrom the
south pole.
Zones, so called, are five in number, two cold,
two temperate, and one hot, which are divided by
the two Tropics and polar circles fron each other j
the hot Zone is counted between the two Tropics
that is extended from one to the other, being about
forty-seven degrees two minutes broad j the tern-
/
20 The Book of Knowledge.
perate Zones are extended from the Tropics on
either side, to about forty-two degrees sixty-eight
minutes, that is northward to the arctic circle and
southward to the antartic circle, and the two cold
Zones are each within those two small circles hav
ing the poles for their center.
The Poles of the World are two points exactly
! opposite to each other in the heavens, one in the
north, the other in the south, the earth being in
the midst, so that it seems to turn about, as if it
were borne up by them : wherefore by some it is
termed the axle-tree of the world, as if there was
a line supposed to be drawn from one
pole through
the center of the earth to the other,- and the earth
turning thereon, tho' holy writ tells 115,
"
The
Lord hangeth the earth upon nothing, it bein?*
upholden by his mighty power." The pole artic,
or north pole, is elevated above our horizon above
fifty-one degrees ; and those stars within that dis
tance from it, never set with us, but keep their
course round it daily ; so likewise those that are at
that distance from the south pole, never rise with
us, but perfrom their course in the like order.
11
Azimuths are
supposed lines or circles of distance
from the meridian, drawn from the zenith to
any
| degree, or two
degrees of the horizon, or accord-
1
ing to the thirty-two points of the mariners's corn-
pas.s so that in travelling or
sailing any way, sup-
j
posing a circle to
go from our zenith directlv be-
I fore us to the horizon, is the Azimuth, called the
1 vertical point as well as the zenith.
) Almicarjh" ; or Almarats, or circles of alti-
The Book of Knowldege 21
|
tude, are
imagined circles passing through the ')
meridian, parallel with the horizon. ,
The Sphere is a round body representing the
J
frame of the whole world, as the circles of the hea- \
ven and the earth: this is sometimes call d a mar- -
tial sphere, for the orbs of the planets are called f
their spheres,that is, the circles in whichthey move.
Ascension is the rising of any star, or of any part
of the ecliptic above the horizon. Descension is
its going down.
Right ascension of a star, is that part of the equi
nox that riseth or setteth with a star in a
right
sphere, but in an oblique sphere, it is that part of
the equinoctial in degrees, containing between the
first point of Aries, and that place of the equinoc
tial which passeth by the meridian with the centre
of the star.
Oblique ascension is a part of the equinoctial in
degrees, contained betwixt the beginning of Aries,
and that of the equinox which riseth with any star,
or
part of the ecliptic, in an oblique sphere.
Ascentional difference, is the difference betwixt the
right and oblique ascension, or the number of de
grees containing between that place and the equi
nox that riseth with the centre of a star, and that
place of the equinox that cometh to the meridian
with the same star.
Solstice is in the summer, when the sun is in the
beginning of Cancer ; and in the winter when the \
sun enters into Capricorn j because then the ^
days seem to stand still, and seem neither to increase
nor decrease above two minutes in JO or 12 days.
22 Tne Book of Knowledge.
Constellation is a certain number of stars, sup
posed to be limited within some form or likeness,
as Aries the ram, is said to have thirteen stars ;
Taurus the bull, thirty-three : Arcturus, Orion,
and the Pleiades, mentioned in Job ix. 9. are said
to be Constellations.
Perihelium is the point wherein the earth, or any
planet is nearest the sun.
Aphelium is a point wherein the earth, or
any
planet, is farther from the sun.
Planets, are the seven eratique or
wandering
stars, called Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, Sol, or the Sun,
Venus, Mercury, and Luna, or the moon, whose
characters, names, and nature, we have mention
ed before, and whose influence we shall by and
by give you a farther account of. Those planets
have also their several motions. As
Direct, Is a
planet's moving in its natural course,
which is forward.
Retrograde, is their moving backward contrary
to their direct motion.
Combust, Is their being under the sun beams, or
within eight degrees of him.
Oriental, Is when a planet riseth before^the sun,
Occidental, after him.
Latitude of the Earth, is the distance of breadth
on either side of the equinox, towards the pole, and
\ they that are under the equinox, have no latitude,
t but the poles of the world are in the horizon :
|' This is a
right sphere, and every sixty miles di-
i
rectly north or south, are said to make no
degree
,
of latitude, and the height of either pole above
The Book of Knowledge, 2'-> ]i
die horizon, is answerable to the degree of latitude, $
in an
oblique sphere, as London is counted to be [
in latitude fifty-one degrees, thirty-two minutes, |
the pole thereof being elevated as much. The
like is to be observed in any other place or
region. #
Longitude of the Earth, is the outside thereofex- ,
tended from west to east, crossing the latitude at
'
right angles, the beginning thereof (according to
some
astronomers) is the Canary Isles, so
going
eastward quite round the world, unto the same
place again, which is three hundred and sixty de
grees ; and under the equinoctial is reputed to be
twenty-cne thousand six hundred miles, reck
oning sixty miles to a
degree ; but then further
offthe equinoctial, the fewer miles are in a
degree ;
for at London about thirty-seven makes a
degree
of longitude ; so these degrees grow less and less,
until they are met in the latitude of ninety, that is
under the poles.
Parallels, are lines straight and circular, equallj*
distant from each other, as the Equinox, Tropics,
and degrees of latitude, &c.
Climate Or Clime, is such a
space of earth com
prehending between two parallels, in which space
there is half an hour's difference in the sun dials,
and length of the days.
Antipodes, are those whose feet are
directly
against ours, as if a line was drawn from o'ne
through the centre of the earth to the other.
And these shall suffice for an explanation of r,
things, which I have done as briefly as I could,
for the advantage of the reader, to whom possibly ,
I
24 The Book of Knowledge.
•
these tilings (so necessary to be known) may have
! hitherto been concealed.
'
Of the Sun's Revolution through the twelve Signs of
i;i the Zodiac ; with an Astrological Judgment of
Ji! those that shall be born, when the Sun is in any of
,3 these Signs.
THO'
there be seven planets (as we have be
fore shewed) yet the sun and rnoon
being
the two
great luminaries of the world, have greater
<l influence upon our bodies than all the rest, and
the sun
shining by his own
light, and being the
1
fountain of both light and life, has greater power
lit. than the moon, and his influence is more in any of
the twelve houses. I therefore here (because I
effect brevity) give the reader an
astrological
judgment of the sun's power and influence, be
ing in any of the twelve houses ; after I have
first acquainted my reader what a house is, and
signifies in astrology.
A house is a certain space in the firmament
which is parted and separated by several degrees,
by which the planets have their motion metapho-
Ijl rically, called houses. For as in a house there
maybe many mansions, for every planet has a
/ peculiar or proper place in the firmament, in
! which it moves and in which it is resident, con-
!;'[ taining thirty degrees, by which one house is dif-
i r. ferenced from another, and these are thus placed
!'.; by Astrologers, viz.
J* The Sun being in Aries, makes a person born
[|| under it of a toward and peevish disposition,
The Book of Knowledge. 25
quickly angry, but as soon pleased: given to study
and very eloquent, but proud, living luxurius,
promising all things, but performing nothing ;
not beloved among his, kindred, and obnoxious to
danger among his enemies ; he shall be in danger
of receiving harm from four-footed beasts, or be
ing thrown from a horse, and the like ; so that he
ought to avoid all hawking, hunting, and other
exercise to be performed on horseback, which are
like to be fatal to him, but in other things he may
be more fortunate. Ifthe person born be a female,
though she may be fair and fruitful in children,
yet she will be given to
lying and of so bad a tem
per and disposition that her husband will live but
uneasy with her. Note this also, that those born
in the day time, the sun
being in Aries, will be
fortunate and happy, but those that are born in
the night, will be unfortunate and come to dis
grace.
The sun
being in Taurus, makes the native bold
and fortunate in attempting hard and difficult af
fairs ; it shews him also victorious over his enemies
and a
great traveller, but banished from his na
tive country. It also shews one servile, familiar,
and angry, but in his old age only ; for in his
youth he shall obtain riches by marriage, which
shall make him better honored. But when age
comes, it bring sickness with it, and that makes
men peevish.
It makes females wanton, yet painful and obe-
xUent^lwit full of tittle tattle ; it also shews them
••Bcln^d to whoredom, which will wear off by de-
■
26 The Book of Knowledge.
\ grees ; she shall have many husbands and divers
children.
The sun being in Gemini, denotes a fair child,
also one that is wise, liberal and merciful, also a
\ boaster, and one that runs up and down without
any regard to his business, whereby he shall ob-
\ tain butjlittle riches of his own, but shall be of that
'
fidelity and truth, that he shall have the command
of the public treasure ; it also denotes one to be of
a complaisant behavior, a
good understanding,
and acceptable to those with whom he has to do.
It shews him also to be well versed in the mathe
matical science and arithmetic ; and that he shall
'
be in great danger about three and twenty years
of age, either to be hurt by fire, or bitten by a
mad dog.
The sun
being in Cancer, shews a person to be
of a
good wit, humility and wisdom, but one m-
f cliried to pleasure and the love of women. It also
shews one attempting many things, and especially
on seas, and thereby often in danger, and vexed
with many incommodities, and with" much poverty
and misery, and that though he may get much,
I yet he may be never the richer ; he shall dig for
treasure, and shall find that which he looked not
for : But if it be a maid, she shall be witty, shame
faced, civil, wise, diligent, nimble and beautiful,
soon pleased, yet deceitful and crafty, saying one
I thing and doing another, subject to many dangers
k by water, by falling, by childbearing and cholic ;
if and after the age of twenty-six, whether the na-
M tive, be male or female, is promised good success.
The Book of K?iowledge. J.1
It denotes also a
person to be painful, frightful,
acquainted with great men, and fortunate in hus
bandry.
The Sun being in Leo, denotes a man
proud
and arrogant, bold and stout ; a mocker, a scorner,
unmerciful, cruel, and. hard to be entreated ; be
set with many enemies, and subject to many mise
ries ; also a captain or other commander, look
ing for promotion from great men, unfortunate
children, and meeting with many afflictions by
their means, putting himself into many dangers ;
he shall be also in danger by fire or sword, and
violence of" beasts, by whom he shall be in danger
6f death ; but with prudence may escape all
threatened dangers.
But if the native be of the female sex, she shall
be bold, have great and large breasts, and slender
legs, which are tokens of stoutness, angers, slan
ders and babbling ; though the softness natural to
women do alleviate the excess thereof. She ought
however to be especially careful of hot waters, and
fire, by which she will be in great danger ; she
shall also be much inclined to sickness, or
gnawing
of the stomach. But after the age of twenty-one
years, she shall be fortunate in riches, which she
shall obtain by the help of great men, and the use
of other men's goods : also by house-keeping,
beauty and love.
The Sun being in Virgo, makes the men for
tunate and successful in household affairs, wise and
fruitful, stout and ambitious: his wife shall die
suddenly in his absence ; he shall have many
28 The Book of Knowledge.
| things stolen from him, but shall be revenged on
|!i his enemies. He shall be so much given to talk
that he cannot keep his own secrets. It also shews
, one fairfaced, of a
genteel behavior, a lover of
i women, and delighting to be in the courts of prin-
| ces and noblemen. It also denotes one wise, just,
I. and honorable, a patron and defender of hisfriends,
B also religious and temperate, of a comely person-
£. age and well featured. If the native be a maid
en, she will be witty, honest and modest ; of a wil
ling mind, diligent and circumspect ; and shall be
married about the age of fifteen years. But
H whether male or female, they shall be liable to
meet with many afflictions.
The Sun being in Libra, denotes the person to
be fortunate in all maritime affairs, and that he
gains by trading in spices and precious stones.
It also shews a comely body, and a valuable pleas-
.
ant
tongue, a
good fame, and one curious to un
derstand secrets, but not very careful to perform
what the promises, how much soever he may pre
tend to it. It shews also that he shall have several
wives, and that he shall quickly bury the first. He
may also be a
gainer by dead men, who will leave
him large legacies. He shall be a lover of women
and entertain unlawful familiarities with them.
He shall be also a
good interpreter of dreams,
,;
whether he be born by day or
night. If the na-
"
"l tive be of the female sex, she shall be free and de-
I bonair, and of a
jocund humor, taking much de-
Ji; light in herbs, loving the fields, and wandering.
ji into strange places. About twenty-three years ofr.
The Book of Knowledge. 29
age she shall have a husband, and be happy, mar
ried fpr her beauty, pleasantness of conversation,
and good behavior, shall much promote her.
likewise the children of Libra are such as are stu
dious and lovers of learning ; but without special
care be taken, they may receive prejudice by fire
or
scalding water.
The Sun being in Scorpio increases the native's
inheritance, and give them a boldness and stout
ness, inclining them likewise to flattery, by which
means those they deal with are often deceived ;
and when they expect bread may meet with no
thing butt a Scorpion. It likewise denotes a
person
full of mirth, giving to jesting and easy of belief,
at the same time a conqueror of his enemies. It
makes a woman to be full of craft and wit, and
yet her husband shall deceive her. She shall like
wise be subject to pain and spleen, and have some
extraordinary mark, either in the head, shoulder
or brawn of the arm.
It makes both sexes bold and rash, given to
thieving, and to search out hidden things ; also it
makes them wanton fornicators, and full of evil
thoughts, and given to too much talking.
The; Sun being in Sagittary, gives fortune and
boldness to take in hand an enterprize, inclining a
person to travel, and to take voyages at sea, and
journie-. by land, and not without considerable ad-
1
vantage ; it also gives access into courts of princes,
where the native shall be advanced to some hono
rable po st. It also shews a person given to nding,
hunting, hawking, leaping, fighting and such man-
30 The Book of Knowledge.
ly exercises, at which he always comes off with
honor, by which means he is envied and has ma-
ny enemies, whom yet he shall vanquish and over
come. It also shews he shall possess the inheri
tance of his father, and that he shall be just, in
genious, faithful, hearty, a sure friend and a
gen
erous, enemy. If the native be a woman, it like
wise betokens the same ; she shall be industrious,
of an excellent temper ; she shall be envied by her
enemies, but shall overcome them ; she shall be
married about seventeen, and have many children.
The Sun being in Capricorn, shews trie native
shall meet with many afflictions and adversities,
which he "shall sustain with many resolutions : Yet
it always shews him angry and fretful, and one that
keeps bad company. It also makes him merry and
cheerful ; yet he may fall in love to that degree,
that he may be ready to die for his mistress ; but
if the nativity be by night, he shall be inconstant ;
it also shews in age he shall be covetous. He
shall thrive in Navigation, especially in the trade
towards the east, for from thence his fortune shall
arise. If the native be a woman, she will be mo
dest and bashful, of a fearful dispositios, ami very
much addicted to travel.
The Sun being in Aquarius, maketh the native
of a
friendly disposition, fearful of waters, and in
danger of receiving prejudice thereby ; he sriall be
subject to sickness and quartidian agues unti'labout
the fifteenth year of his age, after which hie shall
be more fortunate, for by travelling throuigh di
vers countries, he shall gather riches whi<;h with
The Book of Knowledge. 3 1
a liberal hand he shall distribute ; he shall meet
with sundry losses and afflictions, especially by
means of his wife and other woman ; and shall live
for a
long time without the enjoyment of he: .
But
she being dead, his affairs will be more fortunate.
If the native be a woman, she shall be comely of
body, and of a faithful, and constant mind ; she
shall be enriched with other men's goods, but her
children shall be a
great affliction to her, and she
shall receive much damage by them. She shall
not attain to any great fortune until the two and
twentieth year of her age, and then she shall ar
rive to a
competent estate. #
The Sun being in Pisces denotes a man to be
quick, of a valuable and ready tongue, bold and
conceited, but fortunate in finding out hidden trea
sure ; for this is peculiar to those who are born
when the sun is in Pisces, that they shall find some
thing unlooked for, and shall be also enriched with
other men's goods ; it also shews them to be mer
ry and jocose, of a
good disposition, and loving
the company of good men ; they seldom live very
long, but if they reach to thirty-five years, they
may live to a
good old age. They shall never be
very rich except in their own
opinions ; they are
always full of uneasy thoughts, and are in danger
of being brought into captivity by means of wo
men ; they have commonly some mark in the el
bow or foot, and their fortune will come from the
mouth. If the native be a woman, she will be
bold, contumelious, scold, and something worse,
for she will forsake her own husband, and cleave
to an adulterer.
; 32 The Book of Knowledge.
1 Thus I have given an account of the influences
| of the sun, being in any of the celestial signs, by
'•■\ which any person may know in what sign the sun
i& was at the time of his birth.
P Of the evil or particular Days in every
I Month in the Year.
rTpHERE are certain days in the year which
X. concerns all persons to know, because they
are so
dangerous and perilous : for on those days
vl' if any man or woman shall be let blood, they will
1,1 (
die within 21 days following, or whoso falleth
'■■ sick on any of these days shall certainly die : and
whoso beginneth a journey on any of these days,
he shall be in danger of death before he returns ;
also he that marrieth a wife on any of these days,
they shall either be quickly parted, or live together
in sorrow and discontent. And lastly, whosoever
on one of those days beginning any great business,
it will never prosper, nor come to the desired
perfection.
Now since these-days are so unfortunate, it high-
■
, %ly concerns every one both to know, and to take no-
"'
ticeof them; which, that the reader may do, I
have here set down in the following order.
1
. In January are eight daysu that is to say, the
iijj$ 1st, 2d, 4th, 5th, 10th, 15th,*T7th, and 19th. In
/i February, are three daysf that is, the 8th, 10th
H ■ i' and 19th. In March, are three days ; that is, the
p: 15th, 16th, and 21st. In April, are two days, the
''"
15th and 2lst. In May, are three days, 15th,
W' l7th and 20th. In June are two days, the 4th
M
The Book of Knowledge. 33
and 17th. In July are two days the 15th and
20th. In August are two days, riu 20th and
25th. In September are two days, the sixth and
7th. In October is one day, the 6th. In Novem
ber are two
days, the 5th and 19th. In December
are three days, the 6th, 7th, and 1 1th ; and others
say, 15th and 19th.
Of the Planetary Days and Hours, and ho?.
to know under what'Planet a Man is born.
THE planetary hours are those hours in which
each planet reigns, and has their chief do
minion ; of which the ancients gave the following
account.
Saturn is Lord on
Saturday ; Jupiter is Lord
on
Thursday ; Mars is Lord on
Tuesday ; Sol is
Lord on Sunday ; and Luna on
Monday.
On Saturday the first hour after midnight Sa
turn reigns, the second Jupiter, the third Mars,
the fourth Sol reigns, the fifth Venus, the sixth
Mercury, the seventh Luna ; and then again
Saturn the eighth, Jupiter the ninth, Mars the
tenth, Sol the eleventh, Venus the twelfth, Mer
cury the thirteenth, Luna the fourteenth ; and
then the third time, Saturn the fifteenth, Jupiter
the sixteenth, Mars the seventeenth, Sol the eigh
teenth, Venus nineteenth, Mercury the twentieth,
and Luna the one and twentieth hour, then in the
fourth place, Saturn the two and twentieth hour,
Jupiter the three and twentieth, and Mars the four
and twentieth : And then Sol begins the first hour
after midnight on Sunday, Venus the second hour
34 The Book of Knowledge.
•
Mercury the 3d, and also the 24th, which is the
hour of Mercury, and then Luna begins the first
hour after midnight on
Monday, Saturn the 2d,
Jupiter the 3d, and so on to the 24th, which is the
hour of Jupiter, and then Mars begins the first
'-^our after midnight on
Tuesday, and Sol the se
cond, and so forward hour by hour, and planet by
planet, according to their order, by which every
planet reigns the first hour of his own
day ; and
so likewise the 8th, 1 5th and 22d. As for in
stance, Saturn reigns the first hour, the 8th, 15th
and 22d on
Saturday, Sol the same hours on ;
Sunday, Luna the same on
Monday, Mars the
same on
Tuesday, Mercury the same on Wednes
day, Jupiter the same on
Thursday, and so Venus
on
Friday ; which for the readier arid easier find*
ing out, I have thus set down*
T
The Book of Knowledge. 35
A Table ofthe Planetary Hours for every Day in the
Week.
^undayMoniayWuesdayWednts
sl.HJPi. H.P1. H.P1. H
Tkurs.
PI. H
Priday
PI. H.
Satur.
PL H.
1
This Table is so easy it needs little explanation.
—
Its use is to find what planet rules any hour of
the day, every day in the week. As for example,
I desire to know what planet rules on^We3nesday,
at 7 o'clock at night j under the jftfejpf Wedges^
3 6 The Book of Knowledge.
day, I look for 9, which answers to 7 o'clock at
night, for the natural day consists of 24 hours,
beginning after midnight, so that from 1 2 at noon,
you begin to reckon 13, 14, 15, &c. you find that
the 19th hour from midnight, answers to 7 o'clock ,
at night, over against which you will find 0, i
which shews that to be the hour of the sun- And
if you would know what planet rules at 7 in the
morning that day, you will find against 9 7,
which shew that Venus rules that hour ; and so of ,
any other hour in th«» day.
But I shall now come to speak of the significa- i
»icns of the planetary hours of each planet, and
w"hat it portends to those that are born in them. '
The hour of Saturn is strong, and is good to do
all things that requires strength ; such as
fighting
or bearing burthens, or the like ; but for those »
things it is very evil. He that is born in the
hour of Saturn, is slow, dull and melancholy, of
a
dogged temper and disposition, black and swar-
■
tHy of complexion, being quarrelsome, wrathful,
and very malicious.
The hour of Jupiter is;n all things good, and
denotes peace, love and concord : he that is born
in the hour of Jupiter, is of a ruddy and sandy 1
complexion, fair hair, well proportioned body, and
of a lovely countenance, his face rather broad than \
long, well spoken and courteous, of a
very affable
carriage,, sober, just and religious. The hour of
Mars is evil, and denotes the person born in it to be
of a choleric constitution, md of a robust strong
'
body, 'Soon angry, and hard to be reconciled .; his
The Book of Knowledge. 37
face red, and his eyes sparkling and fiery, much
addicted to
fighting, and ready to quarrel with
every man he meets, which oftea brings him to
an
untimely end. The hour of the Sun signifies
grout strength, and is very unfortunate for kings
and princes. He that is born in that hour hath
sharp eyes, brown hair, and a round face, denotes
one that is a
great projector, aims at
high things
but is often disappointed, and seldom brings his
designs to pass.
The hour of Venus is very propitious and for
tunate, but is better by night than day, especially
mid-day, for then the sun covers it. He that is
born in this hour hath fair hair, soft eyes, and a
little forehead and round beard ; very complaisant
in his carriage, mighty amorous, and a
great ad
mirer of women j much addicted to
singing and
gambling, and spends his money in courting the
female sex.
The hour of Mercury is very good, but chiefly
from the beginning to the middle: He that is born
in this hour, his situation inclining to tallness, a
sharp long face, long eyes and nose : His forehead
narrow, long beard and thin hair, long arms aftd
fingers ; of a
good disposition, and an
obliging tem
per, much given to
reading, and very desirous of
knowledge, delighting to be among books; very
eloquent in speech, and yet addicted to
Jying ; and
if he be poor, is commonly light fingered.
The hour of the Moon is both good and evil,
according to the day : For from the 4th. to the
1 7th it is good to those who are born under it j
n
38 The Book of Knowledge.
but from the 1 7th to the 20th, it is counted unfor
tunate to be born under it ; and from the 20th to
the 27th very unhappy. He that is born in the
hour of the Moon, especially upon her own day,
shall be pale faced, of a thin meagre visage, with
hollow eyes, and of middle stature, he appears
very courteous and obliging, but is very crafty
and deceitful, setting about many things, but so
inconstant and variable in his humor, that he is
presently off of them again, and setting about 1
something else ; insomuch, that what he cries up
in one hour, he shall as much cry down the next ;
he- is also very malicious, and will never forget ^, \
an; affront once offered him, his, constitution
phlegmatic.
Thus have I given the reader the judgment of
the ancients upon the planetary hclirs, and what
they poTtend to those that are born under them,
by which a person comparing himself with what
i-i here set down, may easily knov/ under what •
planet he was born.
Of the Signification cf the Seven Planets,
wiih i
espect to Mens1 Bodies.
EFORE I conclude my discourse of the seven
planets, their nature and influences, I shall.
^ive you an account of the signification of them*. \
as they respect the several parts of man's body,
:-uu! the diseases that they govern, that proper *
remedies may be applied accordingly. *I
Saturn governs the light cur, the bladder and %
'V.-i bones ; :■.■:■.] the diseases he governs, are
quar- i
The Book of Knowledge. JiL*
tan agues, concerns, black choler, rheums, coughs,
palsies, looseness of the blood, &c.
Jupiter governs the lungs, ribs, liver, seeds, ar
teries, and left ear, and the diseases incident to
them, are pleurisies and apoplexies, and such as
proceed from two great a
quantity of blood, or
from wind in any part of the body. »■
Mars governs the gall, the veins and the reins,
and their distempers which are fevers, yellow jaun
dice, madness, choler, carbuncles. Mars also go
verns the stones or
privy members of man or wo
man in part.
The Sun governs the eyes, heart, and rightside,
and the diseases relating to them ; such as colds,
especially in the stomach and liver, fluxes in the
eyes, cramp, head-ach, &c.
Venus governs the liver, loins, matrix, paps and
throat ; the diseases whereof are weakness in the
body, and members, catarrhs, French pox, &c.
Mercury governs the brain, thought, memory,
speech, and tongue, and also the distempers inci
dent thereto, are
falling sickness, madness, coughs,
hoarseness, stammering, phthysic, and rheums.
The Moon governs the left eye of man, and
the right eye of a woman, also the stomach, belly,
and the left side ; and the diseases proper to them,
are
dropsies, palsies, rotten coughs, surfeits, worras
in children, king's evil, fallhig-sickness, convulsion
fits, dimness of sight, small-pox, and measles.
Here note, That in all distempers before you ap
ply any thing to the patient, it is proper and ne
cessary to consult the motions and positions of the
1
40 The Book of Knowledge
planets ; and when by the table of planetary hours
before recited,* you know what planet rules ; you
must in the next place consider the nature of that
planet, as whether it be fierce or cruel, as Mars ;
or friendly and benevolent, as Jupiter ; also whe
ther they be cold and moist, or hot and dry, and
what is the predominent complexion, whether the
sanguine, choler, phlegm or melancholy ; as als*
what member of the body it governs, and what
disease is under its power. These things being
diligently weighed and considered, will furnish the •<
ingenious physician with grounds sufficient to
make a
judgment of the true nature of the disease, •
whereby he may apply the suitable and proper re
medies that shall best consist with, and the most
prevalent against the distemper ; whereas the want
of a due consideration of the matter, cause the
physicians oftentimes to administer those medicines
that rather kill than cure, though these very medi-
cines may be good against the same disease to a
patient under other circumstances, and falling sick
under a different position of the signs and planets.
END OF THE FIRST PART.
1HE
Book of Knowledge :
\
TREATING OF THE
WISDOM OF THE ANCIENTS
PART II.
Containing Prognostications for ever necessa
ry for keeping the body in Health, &Y.
AS
I have found in the Astrological Science
there are four different sort of humors in ■'
the body of man, of which the four complexions
are formed ; and of these one is made of yellow
choler, another of black choler, a third phlegm,
and a fourth of blood ; and if any of these be
wanting the body must perish, because, they
equally sustain it»
And all those ought to be kept in an
equality,
or if one be predominant over the rest, it puts the
body out of order and brings diseases, which ma
ny times end in death, for the blood stagnated,
and gathering into clots, causeth shortness of
breath, which by degrees growing less and less, ?X
last proves without remedy ; but if a
person he let
blood in the beginning of those disordered hu
mors, the danger may be easily prevented. To \
purge the blood. \
c 2 }'
42 The Book of Knowledge.
R. Of both sorts of scurvy grass, of each six
handfuls, of ground-ivy eight handfuls, of sage
six handfuls, of scapwort root, four ounces. Acri
mony and cresses, of each four handfuls ; of rose
mary flowers two drams, of leaves of rosemary
and balm, of each a handful, four orange peals, a
large nutmeg sliced ; put all into four gallons of
jiew ale ; and when it has done working, stop the
barrel close. Take a
pint every morning, and at
four in the afternoon.
Likewise the black choler, or
melancholy, is ex
tremely dangerous, and when it gains the ascen
dant over the other, do great prejudice to the body
several ways, causing divers distempers; and some
times prevails so much over the senses, that a man
becomes in a manner a mere ideot, and also raises
a kind of scurf all over the body, which sometimes
turns to the measles, and are, besides, very apt to
make a man afraid even of his own shadow, and
turn a stout man into a coward, and a well bred
person into one that's unmannerly : But by the use
of proper medicines, such as herbs, flowers and the
like, all this may either be prevented or cured :
First, shave the head, then bleed plentifully, after
wards purge well with the extract of Hellebore ;
lastly, let them use the following diet drink.
R. Epithymum, dodder of thyme, wood sorrel,
of each a handful, rosemary flowers, lavender
flower, of each two drams, primrose and cowslip
root*, of each an ounce, dock root half a
pound ;
slice the roots and infuse all in a
gallon of small
ale, and drink as common drink. White Phlegm
¥he Book of Knowledge. 43
is also very hurtful, if it exceed in quantity and
overpower the other humours, for then they cause
the gout, and divers diseases, are also prejudicial
to the feet, legs, knees, hands, reins, causing an evil
savor both from the teeth, mouth, nose and ears 5
but also this may be cured by medicines com
pounded of roots and flowers ; likewise by physical
drinks, and taking a vomit.
R. Dried rosemary tops, rose leaves, lavender
flowers, red sage and mint, of each a handful,
roots succory, two ounces, senna hermoducts tur-
bith, and scammony, of each two drams, of ze-
doary, ginger, cloves- and cubebs, of each one
dram, infuse them in diree quarts of good white
wine for two days ; take a wine glass full three
times a
day.
Yellow Choler is likewise very bad when it pre
dominates in the body, affecting the heart, and
troubling the brain, and indeed wakening all the
members ofthe body, causing a
general faintness,
with such a loss of appetite, that neither meat nor
drink will go down ; besides which it alters a
man's colour, and is hurtful to the eye sight- This
also may be helped by taking a vomit, and apply
ing proper medicines, compounded of the roots
and flowers of several herbs.
R. Of the roots of .termerick half an ounce,
tods of centaury the less, Roman wormwood and
horehound, of each an handful, roots of the great
er nettle two ounces, boil them in three pints of
water to the half, then add two scruples of saffron
tied up in a bag, and a pint of white wine, give it
44 The Book of Knowledge.
a warm or two, and strain it for use ; dose, a small
glass full night and morning.
Note That the four humors are the four com
plexions, which have their several times of domi
nion or
government in the body of man, accord
ing to the several seasons of the year.
I. Of the Disposition of the Humors in the Body of
Man in the Winter Quarter, under the Signs of
Capricorn, Aquarius and Pisces.
THAT
humor or complexion that governs
man's body in the winter quarter, is phlegm
which is cold and moist, and is under the domi- ,
nion of Capricorn, Aquarius, and Pisces This
is predominant from the 24th of December, till
the 25th of March.
II. Of the Spring Quarter, and what Humor is
predominant therein, which is governed by Ariest ^
Taurus, and Gemini.
THAT
humor which is predominant in the
j
second quarter, or
spring, is black choler, ,
and is hot and moist, and their signs are Aries, j
Taurus, and Gemini, and have their chief rule I
over the breast. They initiate the 22d of March |
and terminate the 3d of June.
III. Of the Dispositions of the Humors in the third \
Quarter under Cancer, Leo, and Virgo. ■
THE
third part is the summer
quarter, and
the complexion presiding therein, is yellow j
'The Book of Knowledge. 45
choler, is hot and dry, and the signs this quarter
is under, are Cancer, Leo, and Virgo ; which
commence the 21th of June, and continue to the
29th of September.
IV. Of the Dispositions of the Humours in
the fourth Quarter, under Libra, Scorpio,
and Sagittarius.
THE
fourth part of the autumnal quarter and
the humour bearing rule therein, is melan
choly, cold and dry, whose signs are Libra, Scor
pio, and Sagittarius, and continue their reign from
the 29th of September, till the 24th of December.
By a due observation of these several seasons, and
take heed to keep the rule of contraries, both as
to cloathing, food, and physic, according to what
is in this book related, and through the divine be
nediction, he may keep himself free from all dis
tempers.—
Note. That Pillitory of Spain, chew
ing in the mouth, purges both the head and body.
And also cummum seed and fennel seed, being
eaten, is good to prevent phlegm, which is the
cause of most of the distempers that annoy the
body of men.
V. Of the Body of Man from the four Parts
'
of the World.
MUCH
also may be known of the body of
man from any disposition of the four parts
of the world ; that is to say, east, west, north and
South.
46 The Book ofKnowledge.
First. As to the east ; this signifies the disposi- -\
lion to be fiery and juvenile, and betokens sum
mer. In this part the water is thin and high co
lored, the gross male very hard and ruddy, and
the spirits somewhat thick and glutinous. The
signs in this part or
quarter, are Aries, Leo, and
J
Sagittarius ; and the distempers signified hereby, j
are hot, dry, and subject to a choler : If a person
be taken sick in those original signs, he is in dan- j
ger, and cannot be cured but by medicaments of
a
contrary nature, that is cold and moist, and his
diet ought also to be of the same nature : which
advice, if he follows, he may by God's grace and
mercy, be recovered.
R. Barley-water a
gallon, leaves of mallows,
marsh-mallows, violets, of each a handful, roots •;
of marsh-mallows half a
pound, liquorish four oun
ces ; boil all to three quarters, strain and drink it
for a common drink. Purge once a week with
extras'ium rudis.
Secondly. As to the west ; this signifies the dispo
sition to be airy, brisk, and adolescent, and beto
kens die spring.
In this quarter the water is high colored, but
yet thick withal, and the gross male very thick
and ruddy, the spittle being tenuous and of a
sweetish taste, and the excrementious parts disor
dered. The signs that govern the west are Ge
mini, Libra, and Aquarius. Accidental distem
pers are such as
proceed from sanguine complex- i
ions, being hot and moist ; and therefore the me
dicines that best compose them, are cold and dry, \
The Book of Knowledge 47
and care must be taken that the diet of the patient
be of the same kind.
R. Shavings of ivory, hartshorn, china, sarsa-
parilla, of each two ounces, raspings of box an
ounce and a half, green twigs of the willow half a
pound, quicklime water a
gallon, boiled to three
quarters, and drink a common drink ; you may
'
sweeten it with sugar or
honey.
Thirdly. As to the north ; it signifies the dis
position to be dull and earthly increasing in years,
and betokens autumn.
In this quarter the water is thin and whitish ;
the gross male is thick, and of taste like vinegar,
the excrements will tetulent. The signs that have
nomination in the north, are Taurus, Virgo, and
t^apricorn. Sententional dister.:pers proceed from
melancholy, and are cold and dry, which are best
cured by medicines hot and moist, and the food
that the patients eat, ought to be of the same kind.
R. Crab's eyes, calcined hartshorn, eggshells
finely powdered, cream of tartar, of each two
drams ; sage half a dram, three times a
day, in a
spoonful of good sack, drinking a
glass after it,
^Fourthly. As to the south; this signifies the dis
position to be cold, watery and weak, like to old
age, and betokens winter.
In this quarter the water is somewhat thick,
pale and white, the gross male pale and thick-
and the spittle tenuous and sweet, the excremen-
tuous matter being'weak.— The signs that bear
rule in the south, are Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces.
f Meridian distempers proceed from phlegm, and
48 The Book of Knowledge.
are cold and moist, and by necessary consequence
those medicines that oppose it, must be hot and
dry, and of the same nature must his diet also be,
that would either prevent or cure such distempers,
R. Lignum Vitse a pound, sassafras a
pound,
root of master-wort an ounce, angelica roots two
ounces, shavings of ivory, liquorish, of each four
ounces, sweet fennel seed bruised half an ounce ;
boiled in two gallons of water to six quarts, and
drain it off for common drinking.
VI. Directionsfor letting Blood in each
of the twelve Months.
T -, T1 HIS month beware of letting
January.] ^ blood Qn ^ ^ ^ ^ lQ£
15th, 19th, 20th, and 25th days, because of these
days it is very dangerous : but to drink good
white wine fasting, will both cleanse the body, and
procure an appetite, but if thou hast a desire to
be let blood, and necessity urge it, see that the sign
be good for that purpose, or else it is better letting
it alone.
February.] I caution thee this month to beware
of cutting any pottage made of ducks or mallows,
for they are
right perilous, and if thou hast occa
sion to let blood, whether it be on the wrist or
arms, let it not be
upon the 4th, 8th, 16th, or
18th day unless the sign be very good and the
necessity very urgent.
March.] In this month take care how you eat
figs or raisins ; also sweet meats or drinks, but eat
Hot meat, and if thou hast occasion to be let blood
The Book of Knowledge. 49
let it be on the right arm, and upon the 5th, 1 1th,
or 17th days, for then thou may'st do it with ad
vantage, it being good against all sorts of fevers,
but take heed of bleeding on the 1st, 15th, 16th,
1 9th and 28th days, if thou canst possibly avoid
it ; but if thou art under a necessity, see that the
sign be favorable.
April.] In this month I would advise thee to
be let blood in the left arm, and upon the 3d,
1 2th, or 15th days, for thereby thou shalt both
prevent the head ach and strengthen the eye sight
ail the year after.—
In this month also eat fresh
and hot meat ; but take heed of bleeding on the
7th, 8th, 10th, and 20th days, for on those days
it will be perilous.
May.] In this month it is good to walk abroad
early in the morning, and to drink sage ale, and
to eat
sage and fresh butter, and other good meats
and drink, but neither eat the head nor feet of any
creature during this month. Letting blood may
also be good for thee on the lit, or the 8th day,
on which arm thou pleasest, as likewise on the
27th or 2!Sth days, and thou shalt find it benefi
cial against all distempers ; but take heed of
the 2d, 6th, and 25th days, for then it will be
hurtful.
June] It is the opinion of some physicians, that
in this month it is good to drink cold waters fast
ing every morning, and to be temperate in thy
meat and di ink, and if thou hast occasion to bleed
do it on the 28th day, and it may be beneficial ;
but take heed that thou bleed'st not on the 7th,
E
50 The Book of Knowledge.
'
10, 16th, 18th, nor 20th, for those are dan
gerous.
'•
July.] In this month abstain from Venus, for
now both the brain and humors are open, bleed
, not at all this month, except on very urgent ne
cessity, and then be sure thou avoid bleeding on
the 1 3th and 1 5th days, for they are perilous.
August.] In this month forbear eating any sort
of worts, or any kind of hot meats, drinks or
spices, and avoid bleeding on the 1st, 20th, 29th
and 30th days ; on the other days, if necessity
•
i
urge, thou mayest, but without an absolute neces
sity, it is better to let it alone.
September.] In this month thou mayest eat fruit
without danger, provided it be ripe, and not in
fected, but bleed not on the 4th, 16, 2 1st, nor
22d days, for then thou wilt find it prejudicial;
1 but if thou bleedest on the 27th, or 28th days,
either for the fallen sickness, frenzy, dropsy or
palsy, thou shalt not need to fear them that year.
October.] In this month if you drink wine, and
'
other wholesome liquors, it will comfort thy heart:
—But bleed not unless there be great occasion,
and then see that the sign be good for thee : And
yet let the occasion be what it will I advise thee to
forbear bleeding on the 3d, 4th and 5th days.
November] In this month bleed not at all, un
less upon great necessity ; for now the blood lies
in the head vein, neither is it convenient for thee
to bathe, but thou mayest vent thee a little of gra-
'
smg » f°r all the humors are now
apt to bleed.
* But if urgent necessity requires thou be let blood
The Book of Knowledge. 51
yet see that thou bleedest not on the 5th, 6th,
15th, 19th 28th nor 29th days.
December.] In this mouth bleed not at all, with
out it be absolutely necessary ; and yet, even in
such a case, be sure thou dost not on the 5th, 7th,
15th, 17 th nor 22d day; but on the 1 6th day thou
mayest bleed widiout danger. In this month also
see that thou keep thy shins from the fire.
Whoever it is that does intend to bleed.
Let 'em to the foregoing rules take heed.'
For these directions were
by the Ancients pen'd '^
To caution those that do to bleed intend ;
For here thou all the several days may'st see,
In which thy bleeding may unhealthful be :
Nor need'st thoti ofa Doctor ask advice,
Our Author here has been so
very nice.
VII. Directions for the letting of Blood, shewing
where every Vein in the Body of Man may be rea
dily found.
THOSE
that are troubled with the megrims,
fevers, lethargy, or pains in the head, must
be let blood in the vein which is in the midst of
the forehead. ,
Those that are of a dull understanding and are
troubled with deafness and shortness of breath,
also tliose that have the measles cr leprosy, must
be let blood in the arterial vein behind the ears.
Those that are troubled with too much blood in
the brain, which it bad for the sight, ought to be
let blood in the arterial veins near the temples ;
52 T/tc Book qf Knowledge .
which is also very good against the gout, megrim,
and divers other distempers of the head
For imposthumes, swellings in the throat, quin-
sey, and other such like distempers, let a man bleed
in the two veins under the tongue.
When the leprosy proceeds from abundance of
blood, it will be proper to bleed in the two ori- $
ginal veins in the neck ; but not without the ad-
,:
vice of a
physician.
Those that are troubled with phthysic, and i
short-winded, and are
given to spit blood, ought
to bleed in the arm, and they will find ease.
Bleeding at the liver vein in the arm takes away
the extraordinary heat of the body, and keeping it
in a
good state of health, and it is very available
against the yellow jaundice, and imposthumes of
'
«
the liver, and against the palsy.
The pains that come from the stomach and side,vjj
as blains, blotches, imposthumes, and divers other" J
accidents that proceed from too much repletion^ '
of blood, are cured in letting blood in the vein
between the master
finger and the little finger.
For the dropsy, let blood on the right side, be
tween the womb and the branch, and here note,
the party should bleed proportionable, according i
to their fatness, or leanness, and this ought to be '■:■■
done with the advice of a doctor.
'"'
For blotches and imposthumes proceedi no- from
the groin let blood in the vein named Sophon,
which is one of the three rinder the ankle of the
foot. Ir is also of great advantage to courses to
The Book of Knowledge. 53 !
descend in men, and to prevent the Hemorrhoides
in the secret parts.
When any person is taken by the pestilence,
caused by repletion of humors, let them bleed in
the vein that is between the wrists of the feet, and
the great toe ; but let the patient be sure to bleed
within twenty-four hours after he is first seized
"with this distemper, and let it be with respect to
the patient's body, whether it be fat or lean.
If the eyes run with water, or be red, or
any
other ill, preceding from the overflowing of blood
and humors ; let the patient bleed in two veins
that are in the angle of the eyes.
If the nose be red and pimpled, and the face be
red and pimpled in the like manner, and be troub-
led with red drops, scabs, pistules, and other in
fections that may proceed from too much blood,
let the patient bleed in the vein which is at the
-end of the nose-
For the tooth-ach, and the canker in the mouth
let the party troubled be let blood in the four veins
that are in the gums in the mouth. Ttose that
are tainted with a
stmking breath, let them be let
blood in the vein that is between the lipand the chin.
There are four veins in each arm, the biggest of
the four is front the head, the heart challenges the
second, and the third from the liver ; the last is
called the lower liver vein, and comes from the
melt. These different veins should be bled upon
'
different occasions : As for instance, for pains in
the head, eyes, brain, heart, swelled faces, and
|
those that are red ; it is most proper to bleed that 'j
vein in the arm which has relation to the head.
'
44 The Book of Knowledge.
For fevers, either tertians or quartans, the lower
liver vein is the most proper to be blooded ; but
then care must be taken that the orifice be made
wider, and not so deep as usual, lest thereby it not
only gathers wind, but also damages a sinew that
is underneath it, called the lizard.
There are three veins in each hand, and that
above the thumb is proper to bleed, in order to
remove the heat of the face, and to dissipate the
thick blood, and humors that
'
are in the head,
this vein being more proper than the arm.
Against all fevers, tertians, and quartans,
phlegms, and other obstructions about the paps,
and the melt, letting blood between the little fin
ger and the leech finger, helps very much.
Against v
pain and humors in the groin and ge
nitals, bleed a vein in the thigh.
Against pains in the flanks, and to dissipate all
humprs that would gather therein, and to re
strain too
great a flux in the menstrues in women,
it exceedingly helps to bleed the vein under the
ankle' of the foot, without, which is called the
Sciot.
VIII. Choice Receipts both in Physic
and Surgery.
I. Ofthe great Virtue of Corns Aid-ecus.
'r l "^ IS a
powder which you may have at the
X apothecary's, and this above all other medi
cines in the world, is the most excellent against
the bloody-flux, used as follows : Take one ounce
n
Hie Book of Knowledge. 55
[■'
of conserve of roses, and one scruple of Corus t
Marcus, and mix them together, then let the pa- <
tient eat in the morning, and fast thereon two •;
hours; and this (by the grace of God) will help
him, altho' he has had it never so
long, or sore :
It is also given above all other medicines, in the
latter end of a
dropsy, and also against the flux if
the menstrum, bleeding at the nose, and all other
fluxes whatsoever ; it helpeth those that spit
blood ; it is excellent to stop the flux in wounds,
and to heal them and dry them ; yet strew the
powder thereon.
II. Of the Virtue and Operation of the Quintasen :.-
of Honey and the Oil of Wax.
YOU
may understand, that honey is rather a li
quor divine, than human, because it failed:
from heaven upon herbs and flowers, and is such a
sweet
thing that the like cannot be found on earth ;
this quintessence is of such a virtue, that if a man
be almost dead, and drink two or three drams
thereof, he will presently recover. If you wash
any wound therewith, or other sore, it will quick
ly heal. It is excellent against tlae cough, catarrh,
or
pain of the melt, and many other diseases,
it helpeth the falling sickness, palsy, and preserv
ed the body from putrefaction, The oil of wa:.
worketh in wounds miraculously, healing them, be
the same ever so
big and wide (being before wide
stitched up) in-the space of eleven or twelve days,
but smaller wounds ,in three or four days, by
anointing the same therewith, and laying a cloth
thereon wet with the same.
5"$ The Book of Knowledge.
Moreover for inward diseases it is excellent ; it
provoketh urine which is stopped, it helpeth stitches
and pain of the loins, if you drink one dram there
of with white wine; it helpeth the cold gout, or
sciatica, and all other griefs coming of the cold.
III. Ofthe manifold operations of the Oil of Cinnamon.
THIS
oil is of a malicious nature,for it pierceth
thro' the flesh and bones, being very hot and
dry, and is good against all cold and moist dis
eases, being comfortable for the head and heart,
working the same operations on a
dying man as ,
the former. To be short, the oil is of such opera- . .
tion and virtue,-that if a man drinks never so little,
'
he shall feel it work to his fingers and toes ends,
therefore it pierceth through the whole body, help
ing the diseases that come of cold and phlegmatic
humors ; it availeth much with women in tra
vail : it driveth away the measle; and spots, if
the face and hands be anointed therewith ; it warms
the breast, and helps the cold cough ; it -consumes
all cold fluxes that proceed from the brain and
head, and causeth quiet sleeps in brief, this oil
may be used instead of the natural balm for many <
diseases. '
IV- How to make Oil of Rosemary Floors, with its
1
Virtues. ■
i
TAKErosemary flowers and
stamp them, then :
put them into a
glass with
strong wine, and 1
v. on it close, setting it in the sun for five cr m-
days, \
The Book of Knowledge. 57
and then distil it with a soft fire, and you shall
have both water and oil, which you must separate,
keeping the oil close in the glass; whose virtues arc
these ; It helpeth against all pains in the head,
although they have continued seven years; it com-
forteth the memory, and preserveth the eyes, if
you drink now and then a drop or two, and then
put another into the eyes ; it helpeth those that
are deaf, if it be put into the ears ; and also drink
with good wine, it openeth all stoppings of the
liver and melt, and helpeth against the dropsy and
yellow jaundice ; it breaketh wind, easeth cholic,
and rising of the mother.
It is also excellent against the pestilence, or
those that have drank poison, if they drink of
this oil, and lay them down to sweat, it comfort-
eth the heart, and cleanseth the blood, and maketh
a man merry, and causeth a
good color, it help
eth those that have the canker and fistula, and the
like ; and to be brief, it helpeth all diseases of the
body that come of cold and moist humors, al
though ever so evil.
V. Hdw to cure the troublesome Companion, the Ague
TAKE
the common bitter drink, without the
purgatives, two quarts, salt of wormwood
two ounces, the best English saffron a dram. Af
ter you have taken the vomit, or a convenient
purge, take half a pint of this three times a-day,
viz. In the morning fasting, three o'clock in the
afternoon and last at night.
58 The Book of Knowlcdg i
\
VI. How to cure that tormenting Disease tkt. Cholic.
'
\
TAKE
anniseed, sweet fennel seeds, coriander,
carraway seeds, of each two drams, cummin
seeds a dram, and put them into a
quart of Nantz
brandy ; let them infuse three days, shaking the
bottle three or four times a day, then strain and
keep it for use. Take two or three spoonfuls in
the fit.
VII. How to help Deafness, and expel Wind from the
Head.
TAKE
five or six drops or more of wine, or
good aqua-vitae, in a
spoon, holding down ^
your head on one side, let one
pour the same into
your ear, let it continue there for about the space of i
half a
quarter of an hour, still holding your head ,
aside that they run not out, and then you" shall hear
a most terrible noise and rumbling in your head, ,
which is the wind ; then turn your head aside, and
the water will run out
again very hot : now when
you have done thus much on one side, you may
do as much on the other, but be sure
keep your
head warm after you have done ; thus I have often
proved, and found ease
thereby.
VIII. How to give Ease and help the Raging Pain
of the Teeth without Drawinv.
THIS
is also performed with the spirit of wine,
or
good aqua-vitx (as you have read in the ,
The Book of Knowledge. *:•
former receipt) by pouring it into your ears, espe
cially on that side where the pain lies, but after you
have let the water run from your ears, then with
more
of^the same water (against the fire) you
must rub' and chafe your cheeks, and under your
jaws, and under your ears, stroaking of them up
wards, with your hands toward the neck, to drive
back the humors; for it is nothing else but a
cold rheum, that distilleth from the head unto the
gums, which causeth the pain, therefore be sure
to keep the head warm when you have done.
IX. How to Strengthen and Comfort the Eyes.
DIP
a clean r?g into a few drops of aqua-vitae,
and with the same wipe the corners of the
eyes, eye-brows, and temples, which will keep
back the rheum, and greatly strengthen and com
fort the eyes : of which I have also made trial,
and found much comfort.
X. Of Persons who have Bones broken, end also
Dislocations or Joints displaced, with their cure.
MANY
times it happeneth, that legs, arms,
and fingers are broken and out of joint, and
the parties so hurt are void of kelp, by reason they
have no surgeons near them: therefore, for the re
lief of such persons, I have here set down some di
rections by which they may be eased of their pain ;
but 1 will not v ish them to trust to their own skill,
if they have any expert surgeon near at hand.
If a leg or an arm be broken, then have a care
6o The Book of Knouledgfl
to place the member in the same manner as it
were before, which you will do in this manner :
Take a towel, and make it fast about the place
where it is broken, and then take another towel
and fasten it underneath the place where it is brok
en, and then cause two men to pull those two tow
els, that they may thereby extend or stretch out
the member, and when the member is stretched
forth at
length, place the broken bones as
they
were at first, and so
by little and little, let them
slack their pulling ; then have a cloth ready, so
big that it may compass the whole member ; wet
both in the white of an
egg and oil of roses min
gled together, and lay it upon the grieved part*
then roll it about with a linen roller of four fin
gers broad, and two yards long ; wet the roller in
the water and vinegar mixed together.
First. Roll it about the fracture three or four,
Limes ; then downward, and then upward, and
fasten it ; then roll it with another roller after the
same manner, on these place thin splints of light
wood-armed with tow, one
finger's breadth from
each other, and bind them on with tape, then
place the member on some soft pillow for twenty
days ; but if a painful itch do arise, open and fo
ment the place with warm water, and then anoint
it with Unguentum Album, and roll it up again.
If a
finger be broken, roll it with a convenient
roller, and splint it, and use the means aforesaid.
The Book of Knowldege. 6 1
XI. A precious Salve for all those that have any
member out of joint) called Jeremy of Brunswick's
Salve.
THIS
Salve hath healed those that have had
their members out of joint, or that have
been wounded, and could not stir or bow the
member where they had the hurt ; for by this salve
did he bring many stiff and crooked joints again
to their former strength, to the great admiration
of all men both surgeons and others.
How to make the Salve.]—-Take two ounces of .
old hog's grease, and old duck's grease, and goose
grease, hen's or capon's grease : linseed meal, fe
nugreek meal, of each two ounces ; oil olive, eight
ounces ; opoponax, mastich, and frankincense, of
each an ounce ; di«solve the gums in white wine,
that are to be dissolved, and powder the other ;
mingle them altogether when stirring.
XII. How fo order and dress a Wound, when it h
at
first hurt ; with the Remedy.
FIRST
remove all such things as are in the
wound, as clotted blood, wood, iron, or the
like, then dry the blood with a cloth or
sponge,
and wash with cold white wine, apply some un
guents or balms to the same, and that on a
plais-
ter fit for a wound, then roll it gently and in a
good form, for that helpeth to hasten the cure. If
three or more
places, but be sure iq leave a
place
at the lower part thereof, forto purge itself thereby,
END OF THE SECOND FART.
T
THE
Book of Knowledge :
TREATING OF THE
WISDOM OF THE ANCIENTS.
PART III.
An Abstract of the Art of Physiognomy and Palmestry,
together with the Signification of Moles and Inter
pretation of Dreams.
Of Physiognomy, and the Judgment made thereby.
PHYSIOGNOMY
is an
ingenious science of
knowledge of nature, by which the inclinations
and dispositions of every creature are understood;
and because some of the members are uncom-
pounded and entire of themselves, as the tongue,
the ears, &c. and some of a mixed nature the eye,
the nose and others, we therefore say, that there
are many signs that agree and live together, which
inform a wise man how to make his judgment,
before he be too rash to deliver it to the world.
Nor is it to be esteemed a foolish or idle art,
seeing it is derived from the superior bodies, for
The Book of Knowledge. 63
there is no part of the face of man but what is un
der the peculiar influence or
government, not on
ly of the seven planets, but also of the twelve signs
of the zodiac, and from each governing part it is
the nature and inclination of a man or woman
plainly foretold, if the person undertaking this
province, or
pretending to it, be an artist— Which
that my reader may attain to, I shall set these
things in a clearer light by the following figure.
By this the reader may see at the first glance,
that. the forehead is governed by <J Mars; the
right eye is under the dominion of © sol ; the left
eye is ruled by the C Moon, or Luna ; the rights
64 The Book of Knowledge.
ear is the care of % Jupiter, the left of I? Saturn ;
the ruling of the nose is claimed by $ Venus
(which by the way is one reason that in all unlaw
ful venereal encounters, the nose is so
subject to
bear the scars which are
gotten in those wars) and
the nimble ^ Mercury, the significator of elo
quence, claims the domination of the mouth, and
that very justly.
Thus have the seven planets divided the face
among them, but not with so absolute a
sway, but
chat the twelve signs of the Zodiac come in for a
part ; and therefore the sign of s& Cancer presides
in the uppermost part of the forehead, and ft Leo
attending upon the right eye-brow. $ Sagittary
does upon the right eye, and £fc Libra upon the
right ear ; upon the left eye and eye-brow, you „
will find 2E Aquarius and U Gemini, and y Aries '»'
taking care of the left ear ; £5 Taurus rules in
the forehead, and vf Capricorn the chinj tto
Scorpio takes upon him the protection of the nose ;
JTj. Virgo claims the precedence of the right cheek;
and X Pisces of the left ; and thus the face of
man is canton'd out
among the signs and planets,
which being carefully attended to, will sufficiently
inform the artist how to pass a
judgment. For
according to the nature of the sign or planet rul
ing, so all is the judgment to "be of the part rul
ed ; which also those that have understanding
know easily how to apply.
I shall now proceed to give a paisicular judg
ment of the several parts of the body : And first,
of the head. A large head shews a
person stupid
The Book of Knowledge. 65 t
and of a dull apprehension, also a
very small head
signifies the same ; but the head of a man
being
neither great nor small, is the prognostic of a wise
man ; for all extremes are
irregular, and a devia- -
tion from nature ; and experience has made it
manifest, that a
great head and small members, do
always produce much indiscretion and folly, both
in man and woman ; but we must also consider
the several parts of the head: And first,
Ofthe Hair.] The hair is only the excresence
of a moist brain ; yet the ancients observe several
things from it ; as, if the hair be thin, it shews a
man to be of a weak constitution ; but if curled
and thick, it shews the person to be of a hot com
plexion : If the hair be stiff, and stand upright,
either upon the head, or any other part of the bo
dy, it shews a
person extremely subject to fear, and
very apt to be frighted. If the hair be thick and
lank, is shews a person to be meek and humble,
and his constitution inclined to cold-
Of the forehead.] A large forehead shews a libe
ral man ; but the forehead narrow, denotes a fool
ish person : A long forehead shews one apt to learn,
and a
high forehead, swelling and round, is a
sign
of a
crafty man, and a coward; a forehead full of
wrinkles, shews a man to be envious and crafty.
Of the Eyes.] The eyes being moist and clear,
shews mirth, good manners, andan honest life, but
if the eyes be declining and looking downward, or
red and very great, they betoken fleshly lust ; small
hollow eyes signify covetousness ; grey eyes an evil
j
man,hollow eyes a crafty man, rolling eyes awick- ';
f 2
66 The Book of Knowledge.
ed and vicious man, black eyes denote a sharp and
piercing wit ; but one lustful and incontinent ;
great eyes denote sloth ; trembling eyes sluggish
ness ; glittering eyes betoken drunkenness; smiling
eyes shews a merry life ; eyes'of divers colors,
and small, denote one crafty and flattering ; eyes
turned towards the nose, shew a man
given to
women ; great drooping eyes, with an unstable
countenance, shew a man mad ; the circle of the
ball green, declares a crafty wicked man, and a
thief; moist eyes denotes stoutness of stomach,
perfect speech, gluttonous and mad ; high eyes ;
large, clear, pure and moist, are tokens of circum.
spection, diligent persons, and lovers ; eyes al
ways running without sickness cause it, shew fool
ishness; small and hollow eyes, the covetous,
deceitful and angry man ; cheerful eyes betok
en
just men, of pleasant disposition, kind and holy,
twinkling eyes, shew a thief and one that lays wait
to catch and ensnare men ; blear eyes signify a
whoremaster.
Of the Eye-brows.] Upright eye-Drows are ami
able, but the eye-brows hanging over, shew an ef
feminate person. The brows very hairy, denote
an impediment in his speech, and the brows being
extended to the temples, shew a man to be a slo
ven, and uncleanly.
Of the Ears.] Open ears shew a man to be with
out reason and understanding ; great ears an un
wise man, and small ears a fool :
square ears, and
of a middle size, shew a learned and wise man.
Of the Nose.] A great nose shews a
good man ; ,
The Book of JCnowledge. 67
a little nose a deceitful person. A sharp nose de
notes an
angry person and a scold ; thick and low,
a
person of bad manners. The nose
stretching to
the mouth denotes honesty, strength, and aptness
to
learning. A nose like an
ape, betokens a libi
dinous and riotous person ; a
long crooked nose,
magnanimity and generosity.
Of the Mouth.] A very big mouth, with the
upper lip hanging over, signifies a man foolish and
unsteady, also a rash man a babbler, a
glutton,
and an
ungodly man. An indifferent large mouth,
sheweth a bold, and courageous man, a warrior.
Of the Lips.] Thin lips with a little mouih,
shews an effeminate person. Slender, thin and
fine lips, betokens eloquence ; fleshy and great
lips, a fool ; and those whose teeth bear up their
lips, are
generally contumelious, slanderers, un
faithful, also addicted to the love of women.
Of the Face.] A lean face is a token of a wise
man ; the face plain and flat, denotes" a man of
strife. The face without any rising or
swelling,
denotes a person injurious and unclean ; a
fleshy
face shews a man apt to learn ; a sad fac« some
times denotes foolishness, and sometimes wisdom.
A fat face shews a man to be a liar, and foolish ;
a round face signifies folly ; a
great face shews li -
man dull and slow about business ; a well propor
tioned face shews a person to have virtuous quah- .
ties, and to live a commendable life, whether they -
be rich or
poor.
Of the Voice.] A shrill voice denotes a person to
be choleric and hasty. A great and hoarse voice
63 The Book of Knowledge. \
shews a
person to be injurious, and of a merciless
temper. A weak and low voice shews a man to
be fearful and cowardly. A grave and slow voice
shews a man to be of a sedate and quiet temper, .
and one of great strength.
Of the Neck.] A neck inclining to the right side,
shews a
temperate man ; but turning to the left
side, a fool, and a man
given to unlawful love.
A crooked neck shews a covetous man. A thick
neck denotes a rude, barbarous, ill-natured man.
A long slender neck shews a man to be a coward.
A thick and long neck, a furious and stubborn per-
!
son. A mean neck, a
strong and virtuous man, j
and one inclined to learning* j
Ofthe Breast.] A broad breast is always good, j
and presents magnanimity, boldness, honesty, and
courage. A narrow breast denotes imbecility, or
weakness, both of body and mind. A pursy ,
or
gross breast, shews a man to be morose, cross,
and void of purity. The paps or
dugs hanging
down from the breast, shews a violent choleric"
man.
Ofthe Back.] A broad back is a
sign of strength,
but the mean
proportion of both back and breast
.is always commendable. A crooked or hunch
back is generally a token of a
niggardly and co- ,
vetous person.
Of the Belly.] A lank belly with high breast, (
dem-'es a man of understanding,courage, counsel; ]
but a
great belly shews an indiscreet, foolish,pre ud
rran, and given to luxury.
Vf the Arms.] Very long arms are a
sign of
The Book qf Knowledge. 69
boldness, strength and honesty. Short arms
denote a fomenter of discord and strife among
friends.
Ofthe Hands.] The hands very short, denote a
clownish, rude, ill bred person ; and if fat and
fleshy, with the fingers so also, it shews they are
inclined to theft—
Small hands and long fingers
denote a
person of genteel qarriage, but crafty.
Of the Legs.] Large and well set legs denote
"
boldness ; large legs and full of sinews, shew few-
titude and strength. Slender legs denote igno
rance ; short and fat legs cruelty : Legs crooked
and hollowed inwardly is a
sign of very ill men.
Soft and swelling legs shew a man to be of ill
manners. The skin cross and short, with a sharp
heel, and fat thighs, denotes madness to happen to
that party.
Of the Feet.] Small and slender feet denote
hardness, but the feet full of flesh declare fool.
ishness.
II. Of Palmestry, shewing the various Judgments
drawn from the Hand.
I
SHALL next say something of Palmestry,
which is a
judgment made of the conditions,
inclinations, and fortunes of men and women, from
the lines and characters which nature has imprint
ed in the hand, which are almost as various as
the hands that have them. And to render what
I shall say more plain, I will in the first place pre
sent the scheme or
figure of a hand, and explain
the various lines therein.
The Book of Knowledge.
By this figure the reader will see that one of the
lines, and which indeed is reckoned the principal,
is called the line of life ; this line incloses the thumb, f
separating it from the hollow of the hand. The next
to it, which is called the natural line, takes its be
ginning from the rising of the fore-finger, near the
line of life, and reaches the table-line, and general
ly makes a
triangle thus A* The table-line, com
monly called the line of fortune, begins under the
little finger, and ends near the middle finger.
*
The girdle of Venus, which is another line so cal
led begins near the joint of the little finger, and
ends between the fore finger and the middle finger.
'«
The line of death is that which plainly appears
in a counter line to that of life, and by some is cal
led the sister line, ending usually at the other end;
for when the line of life is ending, death comes,
and it can
go no farther. There are also lines in
the fleshy parts as in the baU'of the thumb, which
is called the mount of Venus ; under each, of the
fingers are called mounts, which are each, one
governed by a several planet, and the.'hollow of
the hand is called tire plain of Mars. I now
pro
ceed to give judgment of these several lines. .4mdj
in the first place take notices that in Palmestry
The Book of Knozeledge.
the left hand is chiefly to be regarded, because
therein the lines are most visible, and ft&ve ithe
strictest communication with the heart and brains.
Now having premised these, in the next place ob
serve the line of life, and if it be fair, extended to
its full length, and not broken with an intermix
ture of cross lines, it shews long life and health ;
and it is the same if a double line of life appears,
as there sometimes does. When the stars appear
in this line, it is a
significator of great losses, and
calamities ; if on it there be the figure of two O's
or a Y, it threatens the person with blindness. If
it wraps itselfabout the table-line, then does it pro
mise wealth and honor to be attained by prudence
and industry ; if the line be cut or
rugged at the
upper end, it denotes much sickness. If this line
be cut by any line coming from the mount of
Venus, it declares the person to be unfortunate in
love, and business also, and threatens him with
sudden death. A cross between the line of life and
the table-line, shews the person to be very liberal
and charitable, and of a noble spirit. Let us now
see the signification of the table-line.
The table line, when broad, and of a
lovely co
lor, shews a healthful constitution, and a
quiet
and contented mind, and courageous spirit : but
if it have crosses towards the little finger, it threat
ens the party with much affliction by sickness. If
the line be double, or divided in three parts in any
of the extremities, it shews the party to be of a
ge
nerous teinper, and of a
good fortune to support it ;
but if th?s line he forked at the end, it threatens
72 The Book of Knowledge.
i the person shall suffer by jealousies, fears, and
doubts, and with the loss of riches got by deceit.
If three points such as these . . . are found in it,
they denote the person prudent and liberal, a lover
of learning, and of a
good temper. If it spreads
,' itself towards the fore and middle fingers, and
ends blunt, it denotes preferment. Let us now
see what is signified by
The middle fnger.] The line has in it sometimes
[. (for there is scarce one hand in which it varies not)
divers significant characters. Many small lines
between, this and the table-lines threatens the par
ty with sickness, and also gives him hopes of re
covery. A half cross
branching into this line, de
clares the person shall have honor, riches, and
good success in all his undertakings. A half moon
denotes cold and watery distempers, but a sun or
star upon this line promiseth prosperity and riches.
This line doubled in a woman, shews she will
have several husbands, but without any children
by them.
The line of Venus if it happens to be cut or
divided near the fore-finger, threatens ruin to the
party, and that it shall befal him by means of a
lascivious woman, and bad company. Two cros
ses
upon this line, one
being on the fore-finger, and
the other bending towards the little-finger, shews
die party to be weak, and inclined to modesty and
virtue ; and indeed, it generally denotes modesty •
in woman ; and therefore those that desire such
wives, usually choose them by this standard.
The liver-line, if it be straight and crossed by
The Book of Knowledge.
~
73
other lines, shews the person to be of a sound
judgment, and a
piercing understanding ; but if
it be winding crooked, and bending outward, it
shews deceit and flattery, and that the person is
not to be trusted. If it makes a
triangle A» or a
quadrangle Q, it shews the person to be of a noble
descent, and ambitious of honor and promotion.
If it happens that this line and the middle line
begin near each other, it denotes a
person to be
weak in his judgment, but if a woman, danger
by hard labor.
The plain of Mars being in the hollow of the
hand, or if the line passes through it, which ren
ders it very plain, is fortune : This plain being
hollowed, and the lines be crooked and distorted,
threatens the party to fall by his ill conduct.
When the lines begin at the wrist, long within the
plain, reaching the brawn of the hand, they shew
the person to be one
given to quarrelling, often in
broils and of a hot and fiery spirit, by which he
shall suffer much damage. If deep large crosses
in the middle of the plain, it shews the party shall
obtain honor by martial exploits ; but if it be a
woman, she shall have several husbands, and
easy labor with her children.
The line of death is fatal, when any crosses or
broken lines appear in it ; for they threaten the
person with sickness and a short life. A clouded
moon appearing therein, threatens a child-bed
woman with death. A bloody spot in the line
denotes a violent death. A star like a comet threa
tens ruin by \va', and death by pestilence^ but,
G
7± The Book of Knowledge.
\ a
bright sun appeSrs therein, it promises long life
J and prosperity.
■"'
As for the lines in the wrist being fair, they
i denote good fortune; but if crossed and broken,
>
the contrary.
\ Thus much with respect to the several lines in
'
the hand. Now as to the judgment to be made
«' from the hand itself: If the hand be soft and long
I and lean withal, it denotes a
person of a good
?'-■ understanding, a lover of peace and honesty, dis-
f creet, serviceable, a
good neighbor, and a lover of
} learning. He whose hands are very thick and ve
ry short, is thereby signified to be faithful, strong ,
^ and laborious, and one that cannot long retain
his anger. He whose hands are full of hairs.
and those hairs thick, and great ones, and his fin
gers withal be crooked, he is thereby noted to be
luxurious, vain, false, of a dull understanding
and disposition, and more foolish than wise. He
whose hands and fingers do bend upwards, is com
monly a liberal man, serviceable, a
keeper of se
crecy, and apt (to be poor for he is seldom for
tunate) to do any man courtesy. He whose hand
is stiff and will not bend at the upper joint near
his finger, is always a wretched miserable person,
covetous,' obstinate, incredulous, and one that will
believe nothing that contradicts his own private
interest. And thus much shall suffice to be said
"of judgment made by Palmestry.
The Book of Knowledge. IS
'
III. Of the signification of Moles in any Part of the
'
Body. *
IF
either Man or Woman shall have a Mole j
on the Place right against the Heart, it doth I
denote them undoubtedly to be wicked.
If a mole be seen on a man or woman's belly
it doth demonstrate he or she shall be a
great
feeder or
glutton.
If either man or woman shall have a mole on
the bottom of the belly, it doth argue much debi
lity, and to be often sick.
If a man shall have a mole on the knee, he
shall then certainly obtain a
comely and wealthy
wife.
^
And if that a woman shall have a mole on the
right knee, signifieth her to be honest and virtu-
ous ; if on the left, then shall she enjoy man/
children.
If a man shallhave a mole overthwart the nose>
it doth denote that he shall wander hither and thi
ther, through countries and cities.
A mole standing on a woman's nose doth por^
tend that she shall travel on foot through sundry
countries.
If a man hath a mole on the gullet or throat, it
doth demonstrate that he shall become very rich.
If a woman hath a mole on the nether jaw, it
doth indicate that she shall lead her life in son-ow
and pain of body which sh;dl hinder her from at
taining and bearing of children : If a man shall
hare the form of moles on his tongue, it doth de- ,!
76 The Book of Knowledge.
\ monstrate that he shall marry with a rich and
f beautiful woman.
J If either man or women shall have a mole on
$ any part of the lip, it doth portend that he or she
[ be a
great feeder or
glutton : and to be much be
loved, and very amorous.
If a man shall have a mole on the chin, it doth
argue that he shall be rich both in the substance
of money and possessions.
~
;
!■.' Also a woman
having a mole on the same place*
it doth foretel that she shall come to the like
I wealth as the man, and that she hath besides the
same, a like mole aloft or
against the milt.
If a man shall have a mole in either of the
"( ears, it doth argue that he shall be rich, and much
. reverenced and spoken of.
Tf a woman hath a mole in the like place, it
doth denote the same
good hap and fortune to
her ; and, that besides she hath the like placed on
the thigh or hams.
?
If eitl <
er n-.au or woman haveamole on the neck,
.£ it dotK promise that they shall become very rich.
If a man shall have a mole in a manner behind
t the neck, it doth demonstrate that he shall be be
headed except God (through earnest prayer) pre
vent th? same.
If as well the man as the woman shall have a
moie on the loins, it doth demonstrate a weak,
and poor kindred, and to be always needy.
If a man shall have a mole on the throat, if
'I idoth promise that he shall marry hoth with a
| •
beautiful and rich woman.
The Book of Knowledge. 77
If a woman shall have a mole on the same
place it doth signify that she shall also marry
both with a weathy, and very fair, or comely
man.
If either in the man or woman's hand a mole
appear, it doth denote prosperity, good luck, and
enjoyment of children.
If either the man or woman shall have a mole
on the breast, it doth threaten that he or she shall
be much harmed by poverty.
A mole on the left side of the stomach, denotes
a luxurious person.
A mole on the left shoulder, denotes trouble
and affliction.
A mole on the left shoulder, near the arm, de
notes the person given to quarrels,strife and hatred.
A mole in the middle of the stomach, denotes
dangerous disease.
A mole on the right side of the forehead, pro
mises riches and prosperity, and the like signifies
a mole on the right temple.
A mole on the left corner of the eye, denotes
*
the party subject to melancholy, and diseases that
proceed thereform.
A mole on the left cheek, denotes poverty and
affliction.
| A mole on the lower part or tip of the right ear,
i threatens the party with drowning.
\ A mole near the bottom of the nostrils predicts
I a man or woman fortunate or lucky.
A mole on the middle of the right breast, de-
i n*$es the person ingenious, and given to industry.
6 2
ll 78 The Book of Knowledge.
a A mole on the left side of the. belly, denotes
fe affliction and crosses.
A mole on the left buttock, threaten sickness
«'j| and trouble.
jfc A mole on the right foot, denotes the- party to
f be endowed with wisdom and eloquence.
f A mole on the left foot, denotes rash actions
'| whereby the pafty shall be endangered.
A mole on the huckle-bone, promises good for-
! tune.
i A mole on the groin, or the right side, denotes
r good fortune, and on the left, the contrary.
A mole on the eye-brow, signifies speedy mar
riage, and a
good husband.
A mole on the left breast, upon the beating of
i; . the heat exactly in one place, denotes the parties,
if of different sex, will come
together in matri
mony.
A mole on the left shoulder, denotes labor,
travail and sorrow,
A mole on the right thigh, foretels riches, and
'., advantage by marriage : on the privities it doth
'
the like.
A mole on the right cheek, denotes a timely
marriage, and such a one as shall be prosperous.
A mole on the right knee of a woman, denotes
easy labor, and a
loving husband.
A mole on the left buttock*, denotes a
pleasing
person, and one very much delighted hi the works
of generation.
Moles on the arms and shoulders, if on the
right side, portend wisdom and piudence. On
the left, they signify proneness to debate and con-
The Book of Knowledge. 79
lention. But moles near the arm-holes and the
regions of the breast, signify beauty, riches, be
nevolence and respect.
Moles on the thighs or loins of men or women ,
signs of want; especially being found on the left
side of the body, or the left side of the thigh; let
such take care of venereal misfortunes.
A mole on the upper part of the breast, on
either side, especially the left, signifies a man lia
ble to poverty.
A mole on the leftside of the heart denotes,
wicked qualities ; for persons thus marked, are
rash, hasty, and head-strong in their- actions.
A mole or moles on the belly of men or women
denote them ravenous, and great eaters.
Moles either upon or about the I$nees, signify to
a man riches by marriage ; to a woman, if it be
upon her right kpee, it is a modest sign of hon
or, honesty and virtue ; if upon the righ| Vree
it is a
sign of being fruitful in children.
Moles on the ancles or feet, are held to signify
modesty, and something of effeminacy in men,
but courage in women.
IV. Of the interpretation of Dreams, as they relate
to good or badfortune, ~&c.
THE generality of men
give not much credit
to dreams :
yet considering that many strange
accidents fcave beet^ foretold by dreams, many
mischiefs have been prevented, many wickedness
es dcteO-d bv dreams, it may not be amiss to
set down what experience has observed concern-
<ii) The Book of Knowledge'.
ing them. A dream therefore is a motion or fic
tion of the soul in a various form, signifying ei
ther good or evil to come. Dreams are also spe
culative, agreeable to the vision ; as when a man
dreams the ship wherein he is, is perishing, and
finds it true : or
allegorical, by one
thing signify.
ing another.
To dream of having a
great head, to a rich
man, signifies dignity ; to a
poo* man, riches ;
to a champion, victory ; to an usurer
hopes of
money ; to a servant, long servitude ; to him that
hath chosen quiet, pain and anger.
Of long hair, to women, wise men, kings and
princes, signifies good.
Of long harsh hair, and out of order, betoken-
eth anger and heaviness.
Of being without hair upon your face, betoken*
eth shame.
He that dreams of the right side of his head
being shaved, shall lose his male kindred.
Of many ears
signifies good to the rich, if the
ears be well snaped ; otherwise not. 'Tis ill to a
sprvant, or one that hath a suit in law.
Ot losing ones ears, betokenefh very ill.
Of graceful and hairy brows, betokens good to
women ; naked brows ill success.
Of a
sharp sight, certainly good*
Of a troubled look, want of money ; of b*ing
blind with both eyes, loss oFcnildyen,- father and
mother; but good to them that are in prison, and
very poor; bad for a soldier, and all trader..
„0f having a
large nose, good to all : or having
,
'• The Book of Knowledge. 8 1
no nose ominous ; and to a sick man, betokeneth
death.
Of fat and full cheeks, good to women : Of
cheeks full of wrinkles, betokens heaviness.
Of a
long thick unhandsome beard, is good
for orators, ambassadors, and lawyers ; if a wo
man dreanrs she has a beard, shall have a kind
husband.
The same dream to married women, betokens
>burying their husbands ; die beard falling or cut
off, signifies loss of parents, and dishonor.
Loss of teeth signifies loss of friends ; having
•
no teeth signifies liberty to servants, to merchants
gain by their merchandize ; to have teeth of wax,
is sudden death.
Shoulders thick and fleshy, are
good to all but
such as are in
prison.
Of being wounded in the stomacii, to
young
men and women, betokens glad tidings. Hands
fair and strong denotes prosperity to tradesmen ;
gold rings on the fingers, signify dignity ^nd
good fortune.
Nails longer than ordinary, signify profit.
Nails pulled off, threaten misery and afflicticrr.
Of a fat and big belly, denotes increase of fa
mily and estate. ,..._.
A rr: id to dream her thighs are broke, she'll
be married, to a/$fi anger, and lead her life m a
foreign country ; if she be a wife, she shall bury
her husband
T > dr-ani you . see a woman's white thighs
signifies health and joy.
8'2 The Book of Knowledge.
To dream the thinghs are
growing bigger anJ
stronger, denotes plenty and advancement : if sr
woman dreams so, she will have comfort by her
children.
If a woman dpeams she is able to run by the
strength of her knees, it denotes obedience to her
husband, and care of her family.
To dream your feet are dirty, signifies tribula
tion.
The upper ribs broken, signifies dissention with
a man's wife, redounding to his disgrace.
The lower ribs broken, denotes affliction by fe
male relations.
Ribs grown larger and stronger than ordinary,
will take delight in his wife : If he dreams the
same of his lips, he shall have
lovely children.
Of increase in flesh, will gain g^oid and wealth.
If a woman dreams her skin is become black*
like the Moor's, she will, be taken in adultery.
To dream a man's flesh is corroded by lice,
signifies plenty of gold and silver. j.
If a married man dream his gall be broken, he
will nave some
great contest with his wife.
For a man to dream he sees the statue and
portraiture of a handsome naked woman* signi
fies good luck.
If a man dreams he sees his wife naked, it sis-
nifies deceit.
If a woman dreams she sees her husband nakedt
it. signifies good success in her enterprizcs.
If a woman dreams she lies stark naked in he;
^aAand's arms," and there is no such thing,
•
The Book of Knowledge. 83
presages ill news ; but if the husband have the
fune dream, it denotes amity and profit.
For a woman to dream of herself in bed with a
Moor, or deformed person, foretels discontent
and sickness.
A man to dream he has a crown of gold upon
his head, signifies favor with his prince.
A man to dream he is drunk, is increase of es
tate, and recovery of health.
To be hanged or
whipped by sentence of the
law, shall be rich and respected.
To eat the flesh of a man
hanged, shall be en
riched by foul practices.
He that dreams himself dead, shall grow rich.
and live long in the service of a
prince.
Of winning at dice, denotes that some inherit
ance will fall to him by the death of relations.
To stand before a looking glass, and see their
true
proportion, is good for those that would be
married.
For a man to see himself in a
glass, not such as
he is, signifies he shall be a cuckold.
Of little rain, and drops of water, good for
farmers.
Of
being touch'd with lightning, is a
good
dream for those that would have their sin and
poverty hidden : to those that are unmarried, it
signifies marriage.
Of a burning light in a house, is affluence of
goodf to the poor ; to unmarried persons, mar
riage' ; to the rich health.
Of household dogs, signifies farm*, servants.
84 The Book of Knowledge.
and possessions to come: little ladies' dogs signifies
delight and pastime. <
Of mules, signifies sickness.
Of seeing a tame lion, signifies profit.
A bachelor to dream of a wild bdar, denotes
that his wife will be a scold.
Of asps and adders, signifies rich wives. \
Of seeing a cock in a house, is good to those '
that would marry.
'
A key .seen in a dream by him tnat would mar
ry, denotes a handsome wife, or
good maid.
A woman to dream of walking upon the sea ^
is dissoluteness of life.
A sick man to dream of marrying a maid, is
death. .
'-."•■
'
To see the air cloudy, signifies expedition of
business. _j
To gather apples, vexation from some person ^
or other.
To see ai-med men, is a'good sign. -
To cut bacon, signifies the death of some per-
'
Lion.
To "iMthe in a clear fountain, signifies joy.
To have a little bread,, signifies suits in law. \
To catch bees, profit and gain-
To hear "fells ring, signifies disgrace and trou
ble.
Ifo see a
flight ,pf birds, signifies suits, in law. I
To" see your deceased brothers and sisters, is.*!
iong life. 1
To dream you shoot with a bow, signifies !:■-»-
nor..
The Book of Knowledge. SJ
j
To dream you see candles not lighted, signifies t
reward for something done. I
To hear the cock-crow, signifies prosperity. r
To see
yourself with the devil, signifies gain-
To see an
angel fly over your head, signifia*
honor.
To dream you see a black face, signifies long .
I
life.
•
,
To gather flowers, signifies mirth and jollity.
Of kissing a deceased person signifies kmg life.
Of seeing your picture drawn, signifies long life.
If a man dreams that he holds a
burning light
or torch in his hand, is a
good sign,. chiefly to
those that are
young, signifying they siiali enjoy i
their loves, accomplish their designs, Overcome y
their enemies, and gain honor and good will
from all persons.
If a man dreams he sees the cabinet on fire
which belongs to the mistress of the house it de
notes death.
If a woman dreams she kindles the fire, it is a
sign she is with child, and will safely be delivered
of a man child.
A sick person to dream he sees a river or faun- <
tain of clear running water, presages recoveiy.
A man to dream he has a full glass of water
given him, signifies a
speedy marriage that he
■
xrW t: \ . >' children by his wife.
To dream of inclosed lands with fountains,
'
fields, pleasant eyoves, and orchards adjoining, it .
descirc? i»e ilxzll marry a dUcrett, chaste, and
H
'
< !
8$ The Book of Knowledge.
beautiful wife, who shall bear him handsome
children.
Of seeing a barn wejl stored, signifies marriage
of a rich wife, or overthrow of adversaries in
law.
If a woman dream of being delivered of a child,
yet is not big with child, is a
sign she shall at
length be happily brought to bed.
If a man dreams he sees a woman
brought to
bed, it betokens to him joy. and prosperity.
If a man dreams his wife is big with child, and
it really proves so, it is a
sign the child will live,
and shall resemble the father.
For women to dream of caskets, chains, pre
cious stones, and all adornings of the head, to
widows and maids they signify marriage : to those
that have no children, that they shall have them ; \
and to those that have husbands and children,
they betoken riches. ,
Foremen or women to dream of combing them
selves, is good to both. ;
To be before a
looking glass, and to see the ''-
selves according to their true dimensions, is gor»a
fojr him or her that would be married. : to those
that are married, it betokeneth children. ,
Of having, or
seeing the forehead of a liorf, <
betokens the getting of a male child. *
Of roasted swine's flesh, signifies speedy profit, i
Of drinking sweet wine, betokens good succesVJ
fri law. -1
To dream your head is turned, so that it looks a
backwards, forewarns one not to go ov? of hi* |
The Book of Knowledge. 8v
country and to enterpji.zcno affairs, lest the issue
be bad. It shews that&ey which are in a far
country, shall return hojnfLl
To have ox horns, or ifry other such violent
beasts, foretells death.
To dream the knees are
strong and sturdy, sig
nifies journeys, or other motions and operations ,
of health ; but being weak and diseased, the con
trary. The knee signifies brethren and familiar
friends, and sometimes children.
Of running, is good to all except sick persons,
when they dream they come well to the end of
the race, for it signifies, that shortly they shall
come to the end of their life.
Of being deposedof estate and dignity is ill to all.
Of serpents, denotes private enemies.
Of the arrival of friends, signifies deliverance
from trouble.
Of a black coffin, denotes the deatb-of some
friend or relation-
Of riding, signifies a sudden journey, but a sud
den return.
Of washing in the water, denote an easement
from pain or trouble.
Of a dUease, promises employment.
Of kisses and embraces, strife.
To dream of a banquet, denotes poverty 6c want.
Of one that is dead, denotesiill luck.
Of s<%re eyes, signifies sickness.
Of friends'•being dead, denotes them wel!-
Of money, signifies loss.
88 The Book of Knowledge.
Dreams in. Verse.
A
MAID to dream,of verdant groves,
She'li surely have uie man she loves ;
But if the groves are nipt with frost,
She'll be as sure in marriage crost.
A peacock, tells 'twill be her lot,
,
To have a fine man, but a sot.
; To dream of lambs, or
sheep astray,
Her sweet-heart soon will run away :
To dream of letters far or near,
She soon will from her sweet-heart hear.
To dream of bad fruit, her sweet-heart,
A fair face has, but false at heart.
To dream her sweet-heart's at church zealous,
If she has him he'll be jealous.
A maid to dream of carts, by strife
She'll lead, but an unhappy life.
To dream heV sweet heart will not treat her,
'Tis we^if she has him, he don't beat her.
To dream her sweet-heart gives a kiss,
Instead oF blows she will have bliss.
If she dreams of bees or honey,
When wife, he'll let her keep the money,
|; And be mistress of his riches,
-
Nay, if she will, may wear the breeches :
And sometimes life is not the worse,
Where Grey Mare is the better Horse.
To keep things right in stormy weather.
Thong and buckle both together.
To dream of timber, she'lfbe wed
To one who'll be a
log on bed.
But she'll be wed, who dreams of fliec,
To one that will be otherwise.
THfc
Book of Knowledge :
TREATING OF THE
WISDOM OF THE ANCIENTS.
PART III.
k The Farmer's Calendar :
Containing, 1st. Perpetual
Prognostications for Weather. Id. The whole
Mystery of Husbandry. 3d. The complete experien
ced Farrier, Cowleech, Shepherd, and SwineJierJ,
A
YEAR is the principal part of time, by
which not only the ages of man and other
things, but also the times of many actions in the
world, their beginning, progress, continuance,
and intervals, are measured : and is a
periodical
revolution of a
great circle of months and days,
*
in which the four seasons of Spring, -Summer,
Autumn and Winter, are, after one revolution of
the sun, ordained to return to their courses.
But there are divers sorts of years, as. say the
ancients according to divers nations, which are dif
ferent from one another, reduced to the. rule of
celestial motions. The year is divided 'qft astrono-
, '. mical and political parts.
; '
The astronomical year is two fold, that is So
lar and Lunar.
The solar year is the time in which the sun, by
his proper motion, departing from one 'point of
k the ecliptic returns to the same again. And there
*
is called natural or' syderial.
h 2
90 The Book qf Knowledge.
1. The natural or tropical year, is the space of
time in which the sun is departing out of the tro
pical, equinoctial, or solstitial point, and return
ing through the ecliptic, returneth to the same
again.
This natural or tropical year, contains 36.5
days, 5 hours, 49 minutes, 15 seconds.
The true and unequal tropical year, is some
times more, and sometimes less than the equal, by
6 or 7 minutes ; so it increaseth or decreaseth, ac
cording to the swift or slow progress of the equi
noctial or solstitial points.
2/. The syderial year is the space of time in
which the sun returns to the same star, from
whence he departed ; and is 365 days, 6 hours, 6
minutes, but in tire seconds there is a difference
among authors.
Now the lunar year is likewise two fold ; the
common, which is 12 moons, or 354 days, 8
hours, &c.
The embillismal, which is 13 moons or luna
tions, containing 383 days, 21 hours, &c.
The political and civil years, are such as are
commonly used for the distinction of times,
wherein respect had either to the motion of the
sun or moon only, or to them both together, ac
cording to the custom of divers nations.
The Julian, or old Roman year, consisted of
365 days and 6 hours ; this Julian account, or
year is used by the English, Muscovites, Syrians,
Abassinees, and Ethiopians, though the names of
months differ. It is held to begin (with the vul-
The Boo',: of Knowledge. y 1
gar) on the 1st of January, which is therefore cal
led New-Year's day but according to the state
accounts, the year being not till the year ; as for
example: The first day of January next will be
reckoned the first day of the year 1796. But
because the state first account
begins, not till the
'
25th of March, they commonly write the date
<•
double, thus 1719-20 from the first of January
till the 25th of March, after which they write
<
only 1720.
The Gregorian, or new Roman year, is so cal-
', led because mended by Pope Gregory XIII corf-
sists of 365 days, 5 hours, 49 minutes and 12 se-
« conds : It begins on our 22d of December, being
y ten days before the Julian, and is received in all
L -countries, as
owning the autliority of the See of
r
Rome, and in some protectant countries also j as
in six of the seven countries, Utrecht keeping the
Julian account.
fc I. Of Months.
THE
months by which we measure the year.
are two sorts, viz. astronomical, and po
litical, and each hath several divisions ; astrono-
t mical or natural, are
according to the motion of
the sun and moon } and be either Solar or Lunar ;
the Solar are the space of time in which the sun
runs
dirough the twelfth part of the Zodiac, of
which there are two sorts, mean or equal, true
or unequal ; an equal solar month, is the time in
which the sun
by his mean motion, goeth a twelfth
L
part of the Zodiac, and is always 30 days, 10
I
i -92 . 77/e itooX- <?/* Knowledge
| hours, 26 minutes, 5 seconds, &c. But the true
i or
apparent, is something to the true motion of
the sun
through the Zodiac ; for which he is in,
or near his apogson, the months are
longer, but
when he is in or near his perigson, they are
shorter. Lunar month's are referred to the moon's
motion, and are
chiefly three fold, viz.—
First,
periodical, which is the space of time in which
the moon, by her motions, goes through the Zo
diac, and is about 27 days, 8 hours ; secondly,
synodical, which is the space of time from one
conjunction to another, being performed accord
ing to the moon's mean motion, in 29 days, 22
hours, 44 minutes, and about 4 seconds ; but ac
cording to the moon's true motion, it is some
times greater or lesser, by about 12 hours. Third
ly, the month of illumination, or
apparition, i-
said to be 28 days, or four weeks, it being the
longest time that the moon is to be seen between
the change ?nd change ; lastly, the political ,
months are even and usual ; as
every nation best \
please ; which differ both in proportion and name 'i-
II. Of the Days and Hours.
DAYS
are either natural or artificial ; a day
natural is one entire revolution of the sun
about the earth, which is performed in 24 hours,
containing both day and night: and this day the.
'
I
English begin at
midnight ; but the astrologers
begin at midday, or noon. An artificial day is
from sun-rising to
sun-setting ; differs in length
.of several hours,^according to tire sun's place in
'The Book of Kowledge. 95
' the Zodiac, and latitude of the region ; but in
unequal hours (called planetary hours) are 22,
so that one hour is the i2th part of the day, be
it long or short, and the hours that make an ar
tificial, are from 9 to 6 ; that is, 7. 8. 9. 10. 11.
12. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6.
I shall now
give some brief directions for the
knowledge of the weather.
III. Signs offair Weather.
THE
sun
rising bright and clear, if he drive
the clouds before him into the west. If at
the rising there appears a circle about him, and tt
vanishes equally away. If the sun be red. If the
'
moon be clear three days after the change, or
\ * three days before the full. If the clouds appear
with yellow edges. A cloudy sky clearing against
the wind. The rainbow after the rain
appearing
meanly red. Mists coming down from the -hifls
and setting in the vallies ; or white mists rising
from the waters in the evening. Crows or ravens
gaping against the sun. Beetles flying in the'
evening. Bats flying abroad sooner than ordinary.
Many flies or
grots playing in the sun-shine at
evening.
IV. Signs of Bain.
IF
the sun be fiery red at his rising. If he shew*
pale and wan. If the moon, three or four days
after the change, is blunt at both ends, the thicker
the more. A ejrcle about the moon. If the great
94 The Book of Knowledge.
stars be only seen, and they look only dim. The
rainbow appearing in a fair day, the greater it is
the more rain. Birds washing themselves. The
chattering of a
pie, peacocks and ducks often cry
ing. The owl crying chewit often ; swallows fly
ing low ; the working of an insect called a
spinnet.
Many worms
appearing above ground. The
beasts eating greedily, and licking their hoofs;
The biting of fleas, gnats, &c. The soot falling
much from chimnies. The sweating of stones.
A circle round a candle. Aches in ancient peo-
v
pie's limbs or corns,—
Bells heard at a farther dis
tance than usual. Sparks gathering together in
the fire. No dew morning nor
evening, &c. All
these are
signs of rain.
V. Signs of Wind or Tempest.
RED
clouds appearing in the morning. Much
shooting of Stars. The rainbow red. Black
circles with red streaks about the moon, stars
dim and fiery.—Autumnal fair, a windy winter.
Clouds flying swift in the air. Fire burning pale
or
buzzing. Ravens clapping themselves with
their wings. The high flying of the hern. Cry
ing of
svyine. The herb trefoil looking very
rough, jjf
VI. Of the Rainbow.
THE
rainbow is that bow which the Almighty
was pleased to place in the firmament, as a
token for Noah, that he would drown the earth
The Book of Knowledge* 95
no more. As to the natural cause of it: it is
caused by many beams striking upon a hollow
cloud, with which it is soon
repelled and driven
back against the sun : and thus ariseth a
variety of
colors, by the mixing of clouds, air and fiery
light together : there it is soon in opposition to
the sun, for the most part in the evening.
VII. Of Bain.
THE
ancients describe rain to be cold and
earthly vapors or humor, is exhal'd from
the earth and waters by the beams of the sun, an%
carried into the middle regions of the air, where,
by the extremity of the cold, it is thickened in the
body of a cloud ; and afterwards being dissolved
through an accession of heat, it falleth upon die
earth ; and this is done by Gon's power, and at
his appointment, as the prophet Amos witnesseth..
Amos, iv. 6. and ix. 6.
VIII. Of Hail.
HAIL
is nothing but rain congeal'd into ice
by the coldness of the air freezing thg drops
after the dissolving of the '-loud ; and the higher
it comes, and the longer it taniesJfctthe air, the
rounder and lesser it is ; we have so^retimes great
showers of hail in the heat of summer after a thun
der-clap ; which doth manifest, that the air at that
time is extreme cold, thus to congeal the water
therein, notwithstanding the heat' then upon the
earth.
9? The Book of Knowledge.
IX. Of Snow.
SNOW (as says the ancients) is of the same hu
mor that hail is, but only looser parts ; and
therefore in the summer time is melted into rain
before it cometh" down.
X. Of Frost and Dezo.
IN
the day time, through the heat of the sun,
there is a cold and moist vapor drawn up a
little from the earth ; which, after the setting of
the sun, descends on the earth again, and is called
tlew; but if by the coldness of the air it be con-
geal'd it is called frost ; and therefore in hot sea
sons, and in windy weather, dews are not so fre
quent, nor so much, as after a calm and a clear
night : for when frosts happen, they dry up wet
and moisture ; for the ice being melted, tne water
is proportionably less.
XI. Of Winds.
WIND
is said to be an exhalation hot anddry,
engendered in the bowels of the earth; and
being gotten out, is carried sidelong upon the
face of the earth, and cannot mount upwards
above the rnuldle region of the air, which by rea
son of its lioness, doth beat it back, so as by
much strife, and by meeting other exhalations,
its motion is forced to be rather round than right '■
in its falling ; and this makes it a
wrist-post or
■
whirlwind, which oftentimes, by its violence, car-
rieth mzny things with it from place to place.
The Book of Knowledge.
XII. Of Earthquakes. \
THE
ancients affirm that the cause of earth*
quakes is plenty ofwinds gotten and confin'd
within the bowels of the earth which is striving to
break forth, causing a
shaking, or sometimes a
cleaving of the earth, and thereby the destruction
of many people, and ruin of whole towns and ci
ties, as the fate of Sicily has but lately shewn us,
by sinking of mountains, and raising of vallies.
But though what I have said may be the natural
cause of earthquakes, yet doubtless, the final cause
is God's anger against provoking sinful people ;
which ought to make our fearsto tremble, lest God
for our sins should cause the earth under us to do so.
XIII. Of Thunder and Lightning.
THUNDER
and lightning is occasioned by
the exhalation hot and dry, and being carried
up into the middle region of the 'air, and there in-r
to the body of a cloud : now these two contrarieties
being thus shut or inclosed into one place together,
they fall at variance, whereby the water and fire
agree not, till they have broken through, so that
fire and water fly out of the cloudlj^he breaking
whereof, makes that noise which we call thunder,
and the fire is lightning ; which is first seen, tho'
the thunder crack be first given, because our
sight is quicker than our hearing ; for the sooner
the thunder is heard, after the lightning is seen,
fhe nearer it is to us.
IJ;
98 The Book of Knowledge.^
XIV. Of the Eclipses and Causes.
BY
an
eclipse, in general, is understood a defect ,
of light happening in some of the celestial
bodies, and is caused by the interposition of an
oblique body, and our
sight. Now the opinion of
astronomers are, that all the planets of themselves
are dark bodies, hayjng no
light but what they re
ceive from the sun, but the sun and fixed stars are
luminous ; whence it will follow, that any planet
interposing betwixt the sun and our
sight, so also
our primary planet coming betwixt the sun and its
secondary, deprives the secondary of its light, and
consequently renders such secondary planet unillu-
minrfted to its primary.
II.
Ofjdhe Eclipses of the Sun.
AN eclipse of the sun is caused by the diame.
trical interposition of the moon betwixt the
sun and earth, which commonly happens, at the
f. new moon^ or when she is in conjunction with the
sun ; but every new moon doth notcause an eclipse^
. because of her latitude; yet the sun seldom escap-
cth a
year together without appearing eclipsed in
some part ofj^he earth or other, because twice in
one year the sun and one node meet ; also in the
conjunction, or new moon, doth* not
happen just
at the sun's passing by the node, but within half
a
degree from the node, he then must suffer an
eclipse greater or lesser, according as the node is
nearer or remote from him at the time of true
conjunction ; but if the?^neeting of the sun, and
The Book of Knowledge. 99
either node, happen 'at the very full moon, then
she shall totally escape an
eclipse of the new
moon.
III. Eclipses of the Moon.
AN eclipse of the moon is nothing but her be- ,
ing deprived of the sun's light, by the in
terposition of the earth betwixt the sun and her, ,
which can never
happen but when the moon is at
full ; nor doth it always Happen then because !
of latitude, for if the sun of the semi-diameter
of the moon, and the earth's shadow, at the j
time of true full, be more than the moon's lati-
'
tude, she will be eclipsed ; but if the sun of the
semi-diameter be less than the latitude, she can
not suffer an
eclipse that's full ; and though
every full moon there are not an eclipse, yet she
rarely passeth a
year together without being eclips
ed little or much, for the sun pksseth her nodet-
every year. »
IV. Eclipses either total or
partial.
TOTAL eclipses are such as quite cover the
illuminated body, and are either central or
'
not, central are when the centers of the sun, earth ,
and moon
being in a
straight line, or when the
»
centers of the sun, earth and moon coincide ; not
central, are when the centers, do not coincide, i
though notwithstanding they may be total :
par- j
tial, are when the- sun, moon, or other luminon's L.
bodies are but partly darkened1. },'
100 lhejbdoli of luiowicage.
Now the moon being less than the earth, much
less than the sun, eclipses are never or very rarely
total ; yet if it happen the moon be perigxon and
'
the sun apoason, an eclipse of the sun may be to-
H tal ; for when the moon's apparent diameter ex-
ii ceeds the sun's considerably, and her quick and
perfect shadow reaches the superfices of the earth,
by which such places that are situated within the
compass of this perfect shadow (the diameter
.' which is about 300 miles) do lose the whole light
of the sun, which has caus'd such darkness, that
the stars have appeared at noon day, and so dread
ful, that the birds have fell to the ground.
XV. Of thefour Quarters of the Year ; and
first of the Spring.
THEspring or vernal quarter, begins when the
sun enters. into the Ram or Aries (which is
with us the tenft day of March, astronomically)
'
thereby making the days and nights equal to all
the world, the sun then rising due east and setting
due west. This quarter continues while the sun
,
goes through Aries, Taurus- and Gemini.
This quarter is naturally hot and moist ; the
most temperate in all the year, being both plea
sant and healthful, and most convenient for taking
of physic, either to remove chronical distempers,
or to prevent them for the time to come.
II. Of Summer.
THE
summer or festival quarter, begins when
the sun touches the first minute of Cancer Or
The Book of Knowledge. 101
the Crab, thereby making the longest days and
shortest nights, to those that dwell on the north
side of the equinox, which usually happen about
the month of June, after which the days decrease.
This quarter continues till the sun hath gone
through Cancer, Leo, and Virgo.
This quarter is hot and dry ; for then the sun
is in full height and strength, bringing in perfec
tion the productions of the earth ; the time of ga* i
thering in the harvest, being chiefly in the lasj
month of this quarter.
i
III. Of the Autumnal Quarter.
THE
autumnal quarter begins when the sttn is f
said to touch the first minute of Libra or
Ballance, thereby making the day and night again
of equal lengch, which is usually upon the 12th
day of September, then likewise the sun rises due
east, and sets due west.—
This quarter continues
while the sun
goes through Libra, Scorpio and
Sagittary.
This quarter is generally held to be cold and
dry, though it often proves moist and wet ; for
now the sun withdraws his heat and thereby caus-
eth the falling of the leaves from the trees, whence
this quarter is also called the fall of the leaf.
IV. Of the Winter.
i
THE
winter, or hymenial quarter, begins when J;
thesun touches the first minute of the tropical $*'
i 2 •■;
"
1 02 The Book of Knowledge.
I
sign Capricorn, which is for the most part about
'• the middle of December, thereby making the short-
?t est days and longest nights to those who dwell on
.
the north side of the equinoctial ; and the contra
ry to those that dwell on the south-side. This
quarter continues while the sun makes his progress
through Capricorn, Aquarius, and Pisces.
This quarter continues cold and moist, being
directly opposite to summer ; for now the fields
look barren and the trees naked.
XVI. The experienced Husbandman :
shewing how to .
Manure, Plough, Sow and Weed, &c.
THE
first point of husbandry is, to prepare
the ground ; the second to
plough it well ;
the third to dung it well. The ways of doing
this are divers, according to the nature of every
soil and country.
—
Only take notice, that all great
^fields are tilled with the plough and shear, but
the lesser with the spade.
The season of the year, and the weather also, is
to be observed in the ploughing of the ground ;
!
you must not plough in wet ground ; nor yet after
,
very little rain ; that is, if after a
great drought,
a little rain falls which hath not
gone deep, but
only wet the upper part, for the ground ought to
be thoroughly mellowed, but not too wet, for if it
be not too wet, you can
expect but little benefit
that year : you must therefore observe, that the
season be neither too dry, nor too wet, for much
<l dryness will hinder it from working well, because
8 either the hardness of the earth will resist the
The Book of Knowledge. iOs
i plough, or if it should enter, yet it never will
break the clods small enough, which will be hurt
ful to the next ploughing, but if your first plough-
i
ing has been in a dry season, it will be necessary
to have some moister in your second stirring, which
will also make your labor the more. When the
ground is rich and wet withal, it is to be stirred,
when the weeds are full grown, and have their
\.seeds in the top, which being ploughed so thick,
that you can see where the coulter hath gone, ut-
\, terly kills and destroys them ; besides througfi
'. many stirrings, your fallow is brought to so fine
(;' mould, that it will need very little harrowing
,
when you sow it ; and seeing so much depends
\ upon the well ploughing of the ground, the hus-
| bandman must try whether his ground be well
\ ploughed or not, or otherwise, the stalks being co-
'
vered with the mould, he may be easily deceived ;
to be certain, therefore, let him thrust down a
rod in the furrow, and if it pierce alike in every
( place, 'tis a
sign the ground is well ploughed,
■
but if it be shallow in one place, and deep in ano-
•
ther, the ploughing is faulty. If you are to
: plough upon a hill, you must not plough up and
<
*down, but athwart, for so the inconvenient steep
ness is to be avoided, and the labor of men and
cattle made more easy, but then you must be
careful not to plough always one way, but some
times higher and sometimes low er, working aslope
as
you see needful.
As to the season ofploughing, it must be
chiefly
! in the spring, the groftjd being in the summer' too
104 The Book of Knowledge.
hard, and in the winter too dirty ; but in the
spring, the ground being mellowed, is the more
easy to be wrought upon ; and the weeds are then
turned in, and being plucked up by the roots be
fore they are seeded, will not spring again, but
help to enrich the ground. And therefore the
middle of March is usually the best time to begin
ploughing. But yet if the ground be light and
sandy, it may be ploughed in the winter, if the
weather will permit. A slender and level ground,
subject to water, should be ploughed in the end of
August, and stilted again in September, andpre-
prep.ired for so
.-.ing about the middle of March.
The light hilly ground is broke up about the mid
dle of September, for if it be broken up before
it may be burnt up by the sun, and have no
goodness remaining in it, being barren and with
out
juice But this shall suffice to be spoken of
breaking up the ground.
Now if your ground be barren and cold, pro
ducing store of weeds or rushes, or to bring it to
a moderate heat, and so make fruitful, let it be
manured with lime. The lime stones may be had
among quarries of stones, and in divers other plac
es, and you hum them in a kiln, in the most con
venient place you have to save the carriage ; and .
when you have sanded your ground and hack*d '■
it, make your lime small, and on
every acre
bestow thirty or forty bushels of lime, spread
ing it, and mixing rt well with the earth and
san^; and the stronger- and sharper the lime is
The Book of Knowledge. 1 05
the better the earth will be, and you will find
your improvement answer your labor.
And here note, that it is no matter what color
your limestones are, whether white or
grey, so
that they be but sharp and strong in quality, to
give a
good tincture to the earth, it being the
strength and goodness of the lime, and not its
■
beauty, that produces the profit. It is a
greater
help to a cold, clayey wet ground ; such grounds
are also very much helped by layfng dung for
any soil that is fattening, either of cattle, or such
as is ca«t out of pond-lakes, or muddy ditches,
for barren and hot earth can never be overlaid
with good manure and compost, for that warms
the earth, and it is the want of warmth makes it
nnfruitful.
As for the hacking and sanding before men
tioned, the first is, after the ground has been
turned up with the plough, to go over it with u.
long hoe, or hack, and cut in pieces the grass which
you see turned up with ridges or furrows, or any
uneven lumps, that it may be dragg'd away,
burnt, or carried together with the weeds, not to
grow up again, to incumber the corn. And land^
ing it, to bring loads of sand, and lay them in con-
venient places, spreading them lightly, or thick
(as you see occasion) over the ground, that the
lime mixing with it, may the better embody with
the mould, and produce a
good crop.
But beside what I have already mentioned, then-
are several other ways of manuring land : I will
mention some of them; for the husbandman s bet-
1 06 The Book of Knowledge.
ter information. But here it will not be amiss to
take notice, that what will do very well for one
sort of land, will not do at all for aftother ; and
therefore in manuring of land, regard must be had
to the nature of it : As for example ; for a clayey
ground, lime and sand is excellent to manure it
with, but for a barren sandy ground, good marie
is much more
proper. If it be asked, What this
marie is P I answei, it is a rich cliff clay, an enemy
to all weeds that spring up of themselves, and
gives a
generative virtue to all seeds that are sown
in the ground. It is of a
glewy substance, ia
quality cold and dry, and was earth before it was
marie, it is nothing but a rich clay of divers co
lors, according to the strength of the sun and cli-
rr> tte where it is produced. This is so
good a ma
nure, that well laid on, it will enrich the barrenest
ground for ten years, and some for thirty. To
find it, take an
auger whimble, made to hold ma
ny bits, one
longer than another, till you have tri
ed, by drawing the earth into one place, then pro
ceed in the most proper places till you have come
to the marie, and the properest places are in the
lowest parts of high countries, near the brooks
and lakes, and in the high parts of low countries,
upon the knolls or little hills, and in the
clefts of steep banks, or branches in hills opening
themselves -, in some
places it lies detp, in
others shallow ; and commonly barren and sandy
grounds are
verged with it, lying very deepJ
Having found it, dig it up in great lumps, and
lay it in heaps a
yard distance one from another,
The Book of Knowledge. Wt
and when it is dried, spread all the heaps.
'
Many mix the marie with the sand ; but because
■
this is not so easy to come at, I will speak of
others more general, that will enrich any poor
land or city for grain, with less trouble and cost
than before.
Woolen rags are very profitable for manuring
and enriching of land, a sackful and half being
, sufficient for dressing an acre of arable ground.
The way of using them is to chop th^m very
small, and spread the«i an equal thickness' over
the land before the fallowing time, and then com
ing to fallow, let the plough take them carefully
; into the ground, and cover them.
Shavings or waste horns, or hoofs of beasts
;' are very good to manure land withal ; scatter the
'•
shavings in the same manner and plough them in
after heat. These will keep die ground in like
quality as the rags, for five years together, with
out any renewing. The hoofs of cattle are
ap
proved of for this, and may be had of trotter and
^tripe-men, &c. and must be used as the rags and
shavings. Soap-ashes, when the lye has been
drained from them, is of excellent use in this iase,
and has besides the property of killing weeds and
insects that breed in the ground, and eat up the
k corn. The hair of beasts enriches land, being
"
strewed and ploughed in, and there let lie to rot.
i. Also malt dust is much available to this purpose
*
allowing three quarts of it to an acre. And to
enrich your dung or lay-stall, is to throw often
beef broth, and ether waste broths upon it, as
] (jS The Book of Knowledge.
also soap suds ; and in so
doing one load will be
worth three of the same kind that is not so used.
But this shall suffice as to manuring of ground.
In sowing of your seed let your grain be the
best, and scatter it according to the art of good
husbandry, and let your sprinkling be a medium,
not too much, nor too little. But to make the
seed prosper the better, steep it in thick slimy wa
ter, that drains from dunghills, and if no such is
to be had near at hand, steep cow-dung in water,
and soak the seed in it ; wheat will be well soak'd
in 18 hours ; barley in 36 ; peas in 12 ; but rye
and oats may be sowed dry, for that agrees best
with them.
But when the seed is sown, all is not done ;
you must take care to prevent the designs of those
that will make void all your labor, and defeat
your hopes, or else, though you have sown your
corn, you shall never see it come up ; rooks, crows
and daws, are
great devourers of grain, who will
be sure to be about you when you go to sow -t
to keep these at a distance, shoot some of them
and hang them upon pcles in divers angles of your
field ; stick their feathers along the ridges of the
land :
lay trains of gun powder and blow the
powder up, .or let it lie scattered in the most fre
quented places, and the scent of it will make them
forsake the field, especially now and then shooting
a little :
you may also take great numbers of them
by placing strong thick brown paper, twisted taper
wise, like those on
sugar loaves, in holes of the
earth, the broaditop coming even with the ground,
The Book of Knowledge. 109
i bird lime the inside, and scatter some
grain in it,
and then the fowl putting in his head to take it
out, the paper so limed will stick close, and rise
-
widi him, when' being blindfolded, in amaze he
will fly up a
great height, and will fall down
again, so that if you be near at hand, he may
1
easily be taken. Also the scattering nux
vomica,
mingled with paste, if taken by them, (as seldom
'
mhses) will make them so sick, that they will
forsake the field. If you lime your corn, they will
forsake it ; and so
they will, if it be steeped in
\- water wherein wormwood has been boiled, or in-
t fused ; or else sprinkling your corn with the dregs
l of bitter oil, and it will do the like, making them
cast it up sick, and not desirous of any more :
; . and these, with hanging bunches of feathers oh
| lines or sticks, that the wind may dangle and twirl
them about, may help to preserve your corn when
\ ■
newly sown ; and this last also may be used when
1
'"■. it is ripe. But these directions relate only t<j fowl
who, notwithstanding all you can do, will be sure
to come in for a share with you.
'
But there are other destroyers of your corn be»
sides birds, which you must likewise take care to
'
destroy ; among which are the pismires or ants,
! who will do a
great deal of mischief by biting off
the chits or
sprouts, so that it will never
grow,
but rot in the ground. To prevent this, search the
•"
corn-fields well, especially under the hedges, and
'
the roots of old hollow trees, or on the tops of
hills cast up ; and if you find them there, put your
iirned water ^vo-.v^ and hot among them, present-
K
110 'The Bouk of Knowledge.
ly after sun-setting, and it will destroy them. For
want of lime make a lye of wood ashes and it will
do the same, though not so effectually.
Another devourer of corn, are
your droves of
great black beetles, which lie under the clods, and
in sprouting time do much mischief: To destroy
these, make smokes in the field, in a still night,
or when there is a little breathing wind that may
carry it over the surface of the ground, with wet
rubbish or mouldy peas straw, hay, or such like,
and it will kill them, or chase them out of the
t ground ; for they are of all other creatures, the
'greatest enemies to smoke, and can least endure
it. But if your ground be limed, or if you sow
lime among your corn, you may trouble yourself
with them ho farther, for if they bite where the
lime has touched, it,kills them.
The next vermin to be destroyed is field rats
and mice, and water rats also, for these destroy a
great deal of grain, which to prevent, and ruin
them, find out their round holes whenSthe field is
bare, and put hemlock seed into them, which they
will eat, and it will kill them, the sprinkling of
juice of hellebore in them, will also do the like :
But that which I prefer above the rest is, to beat
common
grass very small, mix it with a little cop
peras, vitriol, and coarse
honey, and make it up in
pellets, and scatter it in their haunts, in the mouth
of their holes, or other like places, and the scent
will draw them from ail parts, and once
eating it
they'will certainly die. This also may be used
in granaries and barns, for other rats and mice*
with good success>
The Book of Knowledge. 1 1 1
Slugs and snails are another sort of deyourers,
which do much mischief to corn and peas just
sprouting up ; to kill these, the best thing is soot
or lime, ,
sprinkled thin over the ground, for touch
ing it they will die.
Grasshoppers also do much injury, by feeding
on the leaf and blossom of corn and pulse, from
the first to the last : These are not easily destroy
ed, the best way to
get rid of them, is, by sprink
ling corn with water wherein wormwood, rue, or
centaury has boiled, till the strength of them are
taken away by the water : and if they bite where
the sprinkling happen, they will die. The scent
of any bitter thing being offensive to them, that
they are never found where any such things grow.
Moles are another vermin to be destroyed, fox
they are in a double regard destructive to corn ;
that is, in eating the roots, and rooting it up ; not
making distinction of any sort, and tasting all
alike ; there are divers ways of taking them, but
not so easily when the corn is well grown, for then
they do the greatest mischief, when their tracts,
or
casting up their hills, cannot be discovered so
easily ; however, you must do as well as you can ;
and when you see them casting, or
moving in therr
tracks, strike the-m with an iron of many spears :
or
dig pits in their track, and set earthen glaz'd
pots, which they will blindly fall into, and cannot
scramble out ; or fill an earthen jug with pitch,
rosin and brimstone, with some loose tow or
rag,
and firing it, clap the neck to the mouth of the
hole, and the a^r in the earth drawing in the scent
1 1 w' The Book ofKnowledge.
■
to a
great distance, will stifle them ; or mix jui e
of hellebore with rye meal, scatter little bits in the
furrows, and finding it in their way, they will
greedily eat it, and die.
Having shewed you how to destroy such ver-
•
min as are devourers of corn, it will now be ne-
i cessary to say something about weeding your corn
when it is sprung up ; for weeds are very offensive
and destructive to corn, hindering its growth, and
choaking it up.
When the corn is sprung up about a foot above
the ground, those sorts of soil that are apt to pro
duce weeds, will require your lopking after to
>■
root them out : If they be thistles, or such as are
freat
and offensive, they must be taken away with
ooks and nippers, cutting them off close by the
roots, or rather pulling them up by the roots, if
you can do it without breaking the ground, so as
to
bring corn
along with them.. The nipper may
be made w ith two
long pieces of wood rivetted,
. to be opened like a
pair of pincers, with saw-teeth
Ij closing in one another, that they may take the
j'; surer and firmer hold without slipping. And
\ these weeds may be much hindered in their
l
growth, by sowing t^o bushels of bay salt in an
acre of land, as
you do your wheat : for though
it is a friend to corn, in making it prosper and in-
! crease, yet it is an
enemy to the weeds, and hinders
| their growth.
it
The Book of Knowledge. 1 1.3
2. How to turn barren Lands into good Pastures
and Meadows.
HITHERTO
I have been speaking of the or
dering of corn, I come now to speak of en
riching the earth for meadow and pasturage. And
this is two ways, viz. by watering and manuring
it. And for this use, the lower the ground lies
so it be not
subject to overflowings, or too much
wet) the better it is, and the sooner made good.
Consider in the next place, what kind of grass it
naturally produces, whether clear and entire or
mixed with that of worse
growth, the first is best ;
but if it be of a worse sorty intermixed with this
tles, broom, and offensive weeds, then grub and
pluck them by the roots, clearing the ground of
them as well as you can, then dry them, mix them
with straw, and burn them upon the swarth of the
ground, and spread the ashes upon it, then fold
your sheep upon the ground for several nights,
that their dung may increase its strength, and their
feet trample upon the grass ; then scatter it well
over with hay seeds, and go over them with a
roller, or beat them with a flat shovel, that they
may be pressed into the ground to take root ; then
over these scatter hay, or the rotting of hay un
der stacks, or the sweeping of the barns, or moist
bottoms of any hay that has been good, and is
moist, and of no other use, then spread on your
manure, as horse dung, man's odure, or the dung
of any beast, which being thinned ,and the clods
well broken, let it lie till the new grass spring
through it : but do not graze it the first yrar, ]e«
114 The Book of Knowledge.
the cattle tread it up, not having yet taken very
good root : but mow it, that it may have time to
come to perfection ; and though the first year it
may prove short and coarse, yet the second it will
be fine and very long, and in great plenty. And
dressing it thus but once in twenty years, will con
tinue it for good meadow or pasture, especially
if in dry seasons you have water to relieve it,
which may be done by bringing springs through
it, or
gathering the violent fallings of rain into a
ditch on the other side of it, or, by any. other con
veyance according to the situation of the ground ;
on the ascending part, to overflow it so
long that
it soak deeper than' the roots of the grass, to con
tinue its moisture for the nourishment of it for-a
considerable tin^e. And here note, that the best
season for watering of meadows is from the be
ginning of November to the end of April, and
the muddier or more troubled the Water is the bet
ter, for then it brings a soil upon the ground ; and
this generally happens after hasty showers, and
great fluxes of rain. And if you have ms.ny fields
lying together, especially in a descent, you may
make a conveniency in the uppermost, to pen up
the water till it is very u ell soaked ; and then by
a sluice or
breaking down of a dam, let it into the
next ; and so, by a small addition of water, trans
mit to many. v
XVII. The experienced Farrier and Cowleech, &c.
containing gIktc a Hundred approved Receipts
The Book of Knowledge. J 1.5
*
and Medicines for the cure
of all Distempers in
Cattle, as Horses, Kine, Sheep, and Hogs ; with
Directions how to
find and know what their Dis
eases and Infirmities are.
h T70R a
galled back, take honey and unslack-
X? ed lime, btat, put it in a linen cloth, bind
it close, and lay it in the embers all night, then
strew it on the galled place ; but if it bleed, strew
thereon a little verdigrease, and old shoe leather
burnt to ashes.
2- For a bruised back, take a
good quantity
of roacli allum burnt, two handfuls of barley
burnt, mix them, and put them upon the sore
morning and evening, but if the sore be corrupt
and full of dead flesh, then use mo/e of the af-
lurn than barley ; if it begin to heal, use more of
the barley powder than allum ; if you have no
allum, take butter or
verdigrease, melt it very
hot, and pour it on the sore twice or thrice a
day,
and bind a little hay thereon, that the horse may
not rub it off : if it swells keep it warm, dip a
wad of hay in water, lay it on the sore, ind keep
on an old saddle.
3. For a broken wind, take boar's dung, and
powder it, and pour a
good quantity of it into
milk lukewarm ; give the horse a quart every third
day, and in four or five times it will cure him.
4. For a hoarse cough, take five or six eggs,
and lay them in sharp white wine vinegar, till the
shells be somewhat soft, then fling them down his
throat, and it will cure forthwith.
5. For the belly-bound, take good wort, and
116 The Book of Knowledge.
so much soap as an
egg, mixed together, and give
it to your horse to drink.
6. For the bots, take a
good handful of egrimo-
ny, and make the horse eat it early in the morning,
and keep him fasting for a
pretty while after it.
7. For the hide-bound, take fenugreek, turme
ric, anniseeds, bay-berries, liquorice, and cummin-
seeda, of each a little quantity, beat them to pow
der, mix them well together, and give him a
spoonful in ale or beer at a time, blood warm, and
this will cure him speedily.
8. For a canker, take a handful of salt and burn
it black, a
penny worth of bole armoniac, a half
penny worth of allum, and a handful of sage, boil
all these in a quart of chamber lye, till one half
be wasted, wash the horse therewith every twenty-
four hours, and after you have washed the sore
five or six times, then take a little turpentine,
wash it in clean water, put to it a little powder of
brimstone, and a little honey, boil them in the
same water, and wash the sore place therewith,
and it will cure him.
9. In the mouth, take red sage and rue, of each
a handful, half a
pound of allum and burn it, or
honey and white copperas, of each two penny
worth, boil these in a
pint of white-wine vinegar ;
then take the third or fourth feather of a
goose
wing, put a
strong thread fast about your finger,
dip it in the water, and wash his nose therewith ;
and if he snorts up the feather, the thread will
pull it back. This will heal it in three weeks.
Also you may (if the time of the year will serve)
Th e Book of Knowledge. 1 1 1
boil in your vinegar a little handful of ribwart,
bitony, and dazies, which is very good.
10. For a
green wound, take white wine and
warm it, and wash the wound all over, then take
turpentine, honey of roses and wat, melt them to
gether, and stir them continually till they incor-
*.,porate. If it be a cut, put tow in it, and fill it ;
if it be a hole, make tents and put into it.
11. For a festered sore, take lime, tow, and
horse dung, temper them well together with pep
per and the white of an
egg, lay it to the sore for
the space of five days, and it will heal it.
12. For a shot or stake, take sallad oil, turpen
tine and bees-wax, of each a penny worth, and so
much rosiri as an
egg, boil all these together, and
sprinkle on them a little verdigrease, then make
clean the wound, and make tents, and put them
into it.
0^13. A good drink, take pulus diapenthea, two
1
penny worth, armiseed and liquorish, in powder,
of each a halfpenny worth of sack a quarter of
a
pint, and a little sallad oil, mixed together,
warm them blood warm, but no warmer, then
give it to the horse with a horn to drink, and let
him stand tied with his bridle awhile after.
1 4. For the haw, or horn in the eye, to help
your horse yourself, if you cannot have a famer
to do it, take a cord (for want of nippers) v.:th a
stick, and twitch his nose very hard, and hold him
fast, then take the upper lid of each eye, and with
a needle and thread give it a stitch to the top ot
the horse's ear, and
'
underneath the eye-lid you
i 18 The Book of Knowledge.
shall see a skin with a
large gristle or horn, which
with a
sharp penknife, you may cut out ; but be
careful in cutting it too much ; then take a little
small beer or ale, and spurt it in to wash it, and
it will help him.
15. For the pearl in the eye, take the juice of
salendine, the juice of ground ivy, and woman'**"
milk, mixed together, and squirt it into the eyes
as often as you think fit, till it goes away.
16. For itching and burning in the eyes, take
rose water, plantain water, myrtle, houseleek and
flower water of tutia prepared, of camphire, of
stuse without opium, and the whites of roasted eggs
of each three grains; set the water on the fire till
it be hot, and beat them so for the space of
three or four hours, then strain them, and keep
the liquor in a brass vessel well stopped ; apply
this to thecprner of the eyes.
17. To cure a fistula, when you are certain it
is so, scald it with honey and sheep's suet, for that
will keep it from bleeding ; then slit the nether end
of the sore, and put in so much mercury as a
pea,
it
being well abated with sallad oil, lay it on with
a feather; then take a
penny worth of
verdigrease,
one
halfpenny worth of red-lead ; beat all these
together, then wash the sore with water made of
copperas, elder leaves in summer, but with the
inner bark of elder in winter : and after the wash
ing, put the powder on the sore, and drop in some
sallad oil.
18. For a fistula in the head, take the juice of
houseleek, and dip a lock of wool in it, put it Jr.
The Book of Knowledge. 1 1 9
liis ear, and bind it fast, observe to do this once a
day, and it will help him.
1 9. For a fever, let him blood in the thigh, in
the middle vein, some four fingers breadth under
the rowel, or else take the vein in the neck, and
afterwards give him a drink.
20. For a farcy, take tanner's oufe, and beef
brine, boil them well together, skim them, then
put in the powder of salt-petre, and wash there
with as you see occasion, till it be cured.
2 1 . For the glanders, take twenty cloves of
garlic, four quarts of ale, and one penny worth
*of sallad oil, peel and beat the garlic, and mix
them together, and give it him to drink ; then
*
take a
pan of coals and strew on them the pow
der of brimstone, laying it in a little wet hay,
and hold it under the horse's nose in a funnel, that
[the smoke may ascend to his nostrils, and perfume
^him well with the same, and then ride him forth
(till
he begins to sweat, and set him up warm, and
an hour after give him meat.
22. For galled thighs, wash them with the wa
ter of roses, plaintain, myrtle, and the leaves of
mallows, then anoint the place with unguentum
.
popilion.
23. For a strain or stroke, take flower of linseed
'. turpentine, and lie-honey, ofeach a like quantity
boil them all together with white wine, till they
be thick, like anointment, then sprt ,d it on a
cloth, and lay it to the grief, and .t will take
away any pain in the sinews.
I 24. For a hot nnposthume, stamp liver-were
120 The Book of Knowledge•,
and hog's grease^ then mix it hot, and lay it on
the sore
place.
Or for imposthumes in the ears or head, take a
penny worth of pepper beaten to fine powder, a
spoonful of swine's grease, the juice of a handful
of rue, two spoonfuls of strong vinegar, 'mix all
well together, renewing it once in two days, till
tire swelling goes away.
25. For a cold imposthufne, stamp balm, mix
it with hog's grease, and lay it in the manner of
a
plaister. ,
26. The mare's evil, take oatmeal, mallows,
v. ormwood, horehound, and smallage, wring them*
together and boil them till they are soft ; then lay
it to the grief, and it will bring it to a head, then
lance it, and take red-lead, bole armoniac and
rosin, beat them well together, and lay it on the
place.
27. For.the menage, take one pennyworth of
May butter, a
halfpenny-worth of brimstone
in^
powder, and the juice of hemlock, and boil them*
ail together ; then with an old wool-card scrape
away the hairs, and lay on the medicine cold,
where the menage is : then with a warm bar of
iron or fire shovel, put to it easily, and in three or
four times doing it will cure him.
28. To help an over rid horse that forsakes his
meat : Wash his mouth with vinegar and salt,
and he will feed after a while.
29. To help a
poor horse in flesh : Give him
two penny-worth of horse spair, in one
penny
worth of ale, and doing this two or three times, it
will make him recover his flesh.
The Book of Knowledge. -
Ji21
30. For a horse that is pursy, take the powder
of gencian at the apotheearies, give him some of
that in water or ale, and it will help him.
31. To staunch blood take the scrapings of the
outside of a
pottage pot that you see the meat in,
lay it on the bleeding place plaister-wise, and it
will staunch the blood forthwith.
32. For the scratches, take English honey, ver
digrease, and the powder of brimstone, beat them
well together, and wash the place very clean and
then anoint 'it all over.
33. For the ring-bone or spavin : It grov.eth
With a hard knot between the knee, the hoof and
the hair ; wThen you perceive it, burn it with an
hot iron, and anoint the hair about with neat's-
foot oil, and it will help it.
34. For the staggers, take one penny-woith of
turmerick, anniseed, long pepper beaten, and sallad
oil, of each one penny-worth, give him this to
drink, rowel him in the forehead, and put in a
piece of nutmeg ; then take a spoonful of aqua
vitse, and a spoonful of salt, put it into one of his
ears, and so likewise in the other ear, and bind
them up for the space of twenty-four hours to-
gether.
25. For the pole-evil take running water and
chamber lye, of each a quart, put therein a
pint
of salt, and boil them till they come to a quart.;
then boil them in a little wad of hay, and after
you have strained it, apply it very hot to the sore.
36. For a
prick, take turpentine, tar, pitch,
3^d beef suet, of each a dram, and one head of
L
122 The Book of Knowledge.
garlic ; boil all these together and lay them as
hot as can be suffered, and if it chance to break
out about the hoof, anoint the place with the same
stuff, and it will draw and help it.
37. To help a horse that cannot stale, take beer
anniseeds, and sallad oil, of each one penny worth,
and elecampane, give it him to drink, then draw
out his yard, and wash it with butter and a little
white wine vinegar, two or three days together,
and it will give him ease and cure him.
38. For the strangles, or
strangullion, take
crumbs of dry bread,- bay-berries,
'
or of the
leaves in powder, temper them with May butter,
and give them in little balls three days together,
and it will cure him.
39. To help any swelling, take hemlock, stamp
it and mix it with sheep's dung and vinegar, and
make of it a
plaister, and apply it to the swelled
place. .1
40. To cure
any swelling in the leg : Mark the
ground where the said leg or foot doth stand, and
with a knife or other thing, dig up a turf or
piece
of earth just where the leg or foot did stand, hang
the same on a white thorn, if it be summer, or dry
weather ; if it be winter or wet weather, hang it
in your chimney, and as the turf or earth drieth
so shall the swelling cease.
41. For a broken bone, or
joint out : you must
first bathe the grieved place with warm patch-
grease, then put about it a
binding plaister of
pitch, rosin, mastic and sallad oil, well mixed to
gether, and melted on the fire ; then fold that
The Book of Knowledge. 123
limb about with flax, then splint it with soft,
broad, flat, strong splints, but remove them not
for fifteen days together, except the towels slack
en, and then you may strengthen them again ;
yet it is a
good sign ; if it swell, and the roller
grow straighter, you may give it ease, it being
bound too hard ; and thus dressing it every fifteen
days, the bone will knit ; and if any gross matter
appear, bathe it twice or thrice a-day.
42. For the yellows, chop sallendine and rue
very small, mix it with fresh butter and sallad oil,
give it him, let him blood in the forehead.
43. To skin sores, take melted butter and
strew upon it the powder of rosin a day or two ;
then take two spoonfuls of, very thick cream, and
with the soot of the chimney make a
paste thereof,
and spread it upon the sore. 4
44. To cause a stomach, stamp garlic and
pepper together, give it to him ; then rub his
teeth in salt, tied in a clout to a stick, and thurst
it into his jaws, and let him chew upon the bridle
awhile after it.
45. For splinter or spavin, take mercury, or
white arsenic ground to powder, then make a lit
tle slit the length of a barley corn, to the bone
on the top of the raising up the skin with a cor
ner, and put in as much mercury or arsenic as
will lie upon the slit, and tie up the horse's head
to the rack, so that he may not bite the sore place,
for the space of two or three hours ; for then the
anguish will be over, and so let him fall to his
meat. It will rot and go away of itself, and you
124 The Book of Knowledge.
may heal the sore with the former salve prescribed
in the 43. cured-
46. For a loose hoof, take bees-wax, hog's-grease
and turpentine, of each a like quantity : melt
the wax, and hog's grease, dissolve the turpentine
into it, and stir it well together, then put it in an
earthen pot to cool, and with the same anoint the
corner of the hoof, and putting wheat bran unto
it, boiled very hot, and stop it in the hors's feet,
helpeth a fretele or founder.
47. To repair a broken hoof,, take twelve heads
of garlick and bruise them, of rosri and allum
each two ounces, mingle them with half a hand
ful of ass's dung, then boil them together, and
anoint the hoof therewith.
48. For a
gall or hurt with the saddle, that
doth swell ; seethe an onion in water, and so lay
it as hot to his back as can be suffered, bind it
fast and it will assuage the swelling.
49. For the vives, take a penny-worth of Eng
lish honey, a handful of violet leaves, and stamp
them together, and it will cure without fail.
50. To help all cramps, take pease grease or
patch grease, and wine vinegar, a like quantity,
boil it, and being melted very hot, with the same
bathe twice or thrice a day, and exercise mode-.
rately, before and after dressing it ; it will not
only take away his pain, but also remove alt
swellings or
cramps whatsoever.
51. To cure worms, or bots, take hartshorn
and savin, stamped or
chopped together, mix it
with good strong vinegar, and give it to drink ;
The Book of Knowledge. 1 25
or with your hand wash his fundament with brine,
or with the water of germandine, it will give him
ease presently.
52. To help a tired horse ; pour a
quart of
good wine or ale down his throat, and it will
very much refresh him.—
If your horse in travel
fall suddenly sick, where no town is nigh, alight,
and with a knife or bodkin prick him in the roof
of his mouth, and make him bleed, suffering him
to chew and eat his own blood is a cure to him
self.
'
53. If a horse in halting bow not his hoof, min
gle hemp with the white of an
egg, and stop the
foot under the shoe ; but if it be a wound, put in
the powder of oyster shells and verdigrease, to
dry it up, or the white of an
egg with soap and
vinegar.
II. The experienced Cowlecch.
1. XT OW to know and help a cow that is like to
J7X cast herself: She will look hollow-eyed,
and pine ; take the grounds of ale and the powder
of cinnamon, liquorice and ginger, and give her to
drink.
2. For a cow that has cast her calf; take grains
and long pepper, of each twopenny worth in
powder, and give it her to drink in milk.
3. For a cow that has calved and cannot glean ;
take a quart of good ale, boil and skim it well,
then put in a handful of the flower of barley malt,
and o-ive her to drink in a warm mash.
4 ^To keep calves from worms ; when trou-
l 2
1 1 26 The Book of Knowledge.
;
; bled therewith they will run up and down, and
j not stand still in a place, but quiver and shake,
'
and hold their heads toward their side ; take
; southern wood, or wormwood, a. id bruise it with
dry figs and flitches, and make a
paste thereof,
and put them into the throat.
5. For weaning of calves ; take five branches
of tansey, five branches of rosemary, and sprigs
of mint, stamp them, and give the juice to drink,
with four spoonfuls of good verjuice.
6. To increase milk ; take sugar-candy, cin
namon, and strong drink, and give it to drink now
and then.
7- To help the beasts that cannot piss : take
and bruise cardus benedictus, then strain it with
white wine, and so
give it to drink.
8. For the cholic ; take the powder of one
penny worth of ginger, and so much of the pow
der of liquorice, give it in a
quart of milk, and
it will help her.
9. For loss of cud ; take half a pint of urine,
bay salt and wall earth, of each a handful, mix
them well together, and wash the roof of the
mouth ; but pull out the tongue and force some
down.
10. If a cow be bruised, she will piss blood ;
take perriwinkle, comfrem, hart's-tongue, and
blood wort chop and stamp them in a mortar,
wring out the juice and give a little thereof at a
r time in rennet to drink.
; 11. For a
gore ;• take ashes finely sifted, and
: mix them with the grounds of ale or beer, and
The Book of Knowledge. 1 2*7
make it thick like butter, and so lay it thereon,
use this and it will heal it.
12. If a cow have the fret, her milk will go
away, and she will lie with her legs along ;
take a little dandaiion and groundsel, and boil
them well in good strong ale, then strain out the
liquor, and give it her.
% 13. For a beast that cannot dung : take hay,
seethe it well, stamp it, and strain- the liquor, and
put into it fresh grease and soap, and give it. .
14. If the «beast be sick of the gall, and ready
to burst ;
'
take a
pint of stale ale, one penny
worth of ox
gall, and a handful of salt, mix them
together, and give it to drink, and it will cure
forthwith.
15. If a cow's gall do run, she will scour and
hang down her ears ; take sallendine, turmeric,
and rennet, boil them well and strain them, then
give it lukewarm. .
16. If a beast be grieved in the lungs, it will
be hoarse, short winded, and hang out the tongue ;
take a
pint of stale ale, a half penny worth of bole
armoniac beaten, of henap-seed and long-wort,
of each a handful, beat them well together.
] 7. If a beast be sick of the murrain, it will
rattle in the throat : take a
pint of stale ale, long
pepper and grains, of each one halfpenny wort,
of fenugreek, a farthing worth, beat them well,
and mix them together, and give it warm to
drink. Or -you may let them be let blood in the
nostrils, and give him sugar-candy, cinnamon,
and turmeric, beaten and put in milk.
128 The Book of Knowledge.
1 8. For the staggers ; take cloves and fennel
seeds, beat them to powder, and with milk give it
the beast to drink, and then let him blood.
1 19. If be?stsbe maw-sick their eyes will settle
[ in their heads, and they will groan much, and
pine away ; take a
pint of milk, a
spoonful of tar,
''
a half-penny worth of honey, mix them together
and give it to the beast to drink warm.
20. The more-evil, is known by the staling of
blood; take more-water and more-grass, other
wise called rosa solis, chop these herbs small, and
give the beast a dishful three or four times a day.
2l. The tangen, and- what it is : It is a disease
known by the swelling of the tongue, or by a bleb
thereon, it maketh them rough furred in the
throat, and to swell. To cure it, take a handful
i of dry mole's earth, prick the bleb with the point
of a knife, then rub the root of the tongue about
the bleb very well with the earth, and cast some
urine into the beast's mouth.
22. A purge for cattle. Let the beast blood
in the neck vein, then take a
quart of ale, boil it
and skim it well, then take it off and put into it a
spoonful of the juice of garlic, and as much tar,
then take sugar-candy, fenugreek and brimstone,
all beaten to powder, the quantity of three spoon
fuls ; brew all together with the ale, till it be cool,
putting in a
quarter of a
pint of sallad oil, so
give
it to the beast to drink fasting, and after it chafe
jjj
it to and fro for a
pretty little while.
i"1 23. For the asprung ; take a
running water,
fi leaven and salt, rub their mouth and nostrils there-
H with, and break the bleb under the tongue.
J lie Book of Knowledge. 129
' 24. For the dry-root ; take legwort, sallendine
and bay-salt, of each a:> handful, and four heads
ofgarlic, stamp all these together,then take a quar-
, ter of a
pound of leaven, a little dishful of soot,
work. \t with the other things, then take a quart
or less c
good ale, in two
spoonfuls of mother,
one
penny worth of long pepper beaten, and give
it the beast to drink, and. then chafe her up and
down an hour, but keep her from water five or
six hours after. . .
25. For the itch- With old urine and ashwood
ashes make a
strong lye, then to a
pint of this lye
put tar, black soap, copperas, pepper, brimstone,
~ boar's grease, staneface, plantain, of each a like
quantity, as much as will make the lye a thick
, salve, and with the same anoint all the sore places,
•
and it will kill and heal.
26. For a beast that has eaten venemous herbs ;
\ a
good handful of wormwood, chop it very small,
put it into a
goodquantity of ale and giveit the beast
to drink three or four days together,in the morning.
27. For the garret in the maw : take a
good
quantity of whole mustard seed, and mix it with
>' wine or
strong ale, and give it to the cow.
28 For the canker i11 the mouth ; take wood-
; bine leaves, sage salt and plantain, of each a
handfd, boil them well in a quart of running wa
ter, with half a
pint of honey, and a
pint of good
strong vinegar, mixed together, wash the beast's
mouth oncea-day.
2<J. For infirmities in the eyes ; take an
egg and
gut out half the white, then fill it again with salt,
130 The Book of Knowledge.
and roast it on the embers so
long that you may
beat it to
powder, then mix that powder in a
spoonful of water of eye bright, and as much of
the juice of houseleek, washing the beast's eye
twice or thrice a day, if it does not
help them,
bleed in the temple vein.
30. For inflammation in the eyes ; take south
ern wood, and bruise it with vinegar, and lay it to
the eye ; for a sore eye, spirt beer therein, or chew
the leaves of ground ivy and drop it into the eye,
with the juice thereof, with the powder of ginger.
31. For a cow that hath the wither ; take
the more of the flpwer-de-luce, wash them close,
stamp them well, and mix it with a
penny-worth
of long pepper in powder, make thereof three
balls of the bigness of an
egg, and give the beast
one in drink for three or four days together.
32. To make a cow take bull ; give her of the
herb called cow-make, which groweth like a white
gillyflower among corn, two hours before she
shall take bull, if she should refuse the bull.
33. Against the biting of a mad dog ; take
garlic and put it into a linen cloth, then chafe and
rub the bitten place therewith. Or take root of
great bur, bruised with salt, laid to the place, it
with help man or beast.
31. To fasten teeth : first prick his gums be
neath on both sides, within and without, and the
gums above with the point of a knife, then take
a ". hetstone or
rough pebble, rub the gums there
with, and make them bleed : so done chafe them
The Book of Knowledge. -1151
$'ell with suet, and they will fasten again, or rub
them with sage and salt.
95. How to geld or cut a calf : you shall cause
one to hold down his forepart or
legs, then bind
his hinder legs with some cord half a yard asunder,
let his feet be bound, and let the said holder set
both his knees on the cord, nigh to his legs, and
so cut him gently, and anoint his flanks with some
grease, then rub his flanks with cold water mixed
with salt, and he shall do well.
36- Against hide-bound ; take and stamp the
leaves of the flower-de-luce, then strain it widi
good ale, arid so
give it them warm.
37. Against- pissing of blood, or bloody-flux ;
if this disease be newly begun you shall take a
frog, and cut off his left leg, and so put him
alive in the beast's mouth ; but then you must have
ready a handful of salt mixed with a
pint of good
strong ale, and so soon as you can after the frog,
give the beast to drink and make him swallow
down all together.
But if your beast have continued long, then
shall you take of sharp tanner's oufe with old
Marclemas beef, mixed and well stirred together,
and then give it to the beast,
The experienced Shepherd.
l T^OR the sheeP that have tbe sta2Sers' §ive
X* them one penny-worth of treacle, one race
of tumeric, and one penny-worth of English saf
fron, all mixed together.
'\ 32 The Book of Knowledge.
2, For sheep that make red water ; take a lit
tle piece of roach allum, a little piece of butter,
mix it together, and give it them as
you see oc
casion.
3. For the scab and itch, take tar and fresh
grease, of each a like quantity, mix them well
with the juice of chervil! and a little brimstone,
make a salve, and anoint the sore place therewith.
4. Looseness of teeth, and grief of the mouth ;
take salt, sage, and earth, of each a like quantity,
beaten together, and' rub. the -mouth and gums of
the sheep until you make them bleed.
5. For th* general rot, or water in the belly ;
take sage, tansy, holy thistle, horse mint, worm
wood-flowers, rosemary, rue, plantain, dill and
lungwort, of each a like quantity, beaten in the
mortar, then strain out the juice, and to five
spoonfuls of it, put into a pint of honied water
boiled, with two spoonfuls of the powder of bay-
berries, long pepper, liquorice, and anniseed, of
each alike ; then taken from the fire, put in two
spoonfuls of good salt, and as much sweet butter
as a walnut, stir all together, and give it to the
sheep luke-warm, in a horn, to drink morning and
evening rubbing the mouth very well with salt,.
is a certain and approved cure.
IV. The complete Swineherd.
!• "C1 0R tne murrain, or
garret ; take gun-pow-
Jj der, bay-salt, bole armoniac, and garlic,
beat them together, with a knife make a hole be
tween their claws, put in the quantity of a hazle
The Book of Knowledge. \Z'A
nut, and let them blood under the tongue, or in
the shoulder-vein.
2. For scurf or
manginess ; let them blood in
the tail, then take black soap, brimstone, vinegar
swine's grease and honey mixed together, of each
[ a like quantity, anoint the swine all over with it,
'
having first rubbed off all the scurf and filth
wool-card.
3. For a sow that eateth her pigs ; watc
•the pigging, and take, the least or worst pig, and
■, anoint it all over with the juke of the her.b called
stone-crop, -and give her to eat, and she will ne
ver do the like again.
•
'
4. For the measles, or pox ; let them blood
'
under the ears, or in the tail, then bind the sore
with the bark of green osiers, then take an ounce
of treacle, the juice of wormwood, liver-wort,
and gall-wort, half a
pint, of red oaker and hen's
\ dung, of each a handful, and of barley-meal three
handfuls, mixed, with a bottle of urine and honey
I all together, put it into two gallons of sweet warm
wash, and gtve it to the swine to drink, and
1 anoint all the sore places with boar's grease, and
f brimstone, mixed together.
END OF THE FOURTH PART.
M
1 34 The Book of Knowledge.
The true Form of all sort of Bills, Bonds.
Indentures, Letters of Attorney and Li
cence, Deeds,
Bills of Exchange, S(c.
A Bill with penalty.
KNOW
all men by these presents, that I
John Jenkins, . of the town of Milton, in the
county of Suffolk, and. commonwealth of Massa
chusetts, victualler, do.acknowledge myself indebt ■
ed to Martin Moneyman, of Roxbury, in the coun
ty and commonwealth 'aforesaid, grazier, in the
sum of twenty pounds of good and lawful money
ef Massachusetts, to be paid unto the said Martin
Moneyman, his heirs, executors, administrators and
assigns, in or upon the 29th day of September next
ensuing the date hereof, without fraud or further
delay : for and in consideration of which payment
well and truly to be made and done, I bind myself,
my heirs, executors, and administrators, in the
penal sum of forty pounds, of the like lawful
money, firmly by these presents : In witness
whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and seal
this twenty-fifth day of March in the year of our
Lord 1795. JOHN JENKINS. Q
Signed, Sealed, and Deli
vered, in presence of
■
Titus Testimony,
Andrew Affidavit.
Note. The Mark ©, in this and the forms sub
sequent, represents the seal, which in this, and in
The Book of Knowledge 135
all those which it appears, ought to be affixed ;
the person who executes any of them, is, in the
presence of the witnesses, to take off the seal (that
is die instrument with which the impression was
made) and then taking the paper or
parchment,
in his or her right hand, is to pronounce these
words ; / deliver this my act and deed for the pur
poses within, mentioned.
Note, of ones' Hand.
I
PROMISE to pay to Mr. Robert Rich, or his
order the sum of five pounds, five months after
date, for value received, this, fifth day of March,
1795, by PETER; PENNYLESS.
A Bondfrom one to one.
KNOW
all men by these presents, that I Abra
ham Darmell, of the town of Boston, in the
county of Suffolk, and Commonwealth of Massa-
chusets, gent, am held and firmly bound to John
Melver, of the said town, Esq. in the sum of fifty
pounds of good and lawful money of Massachu
setts, to be paid to the said John Melver, or to his
certain attorney, his executors, administrators,
or assigns ; for the true payment whereof, I bind
myself, my heirs, executors and administrators,
firmly by these presents, sealed with my seal. —
Dated this twenty-first day of January, in the
year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and
ninety-five. #
The condition of this obligation is such, that
if the above bounden Abraham Darmell, his heirs,
executors, or administrators, do well and truly
If> j The Book of Knowledge.
pay, or cause to be paid, to the above named
John Melver, his executors, administrators, or
assigns, the full sum of twenty-five pounds ofgood
and lawful money of Massachusetts, on the twen
tieth day of August next ensuing the date hereof,
with the lawful interest thereof; then this obliga
tion to be void, or else to remain, continue, and be
in full force and virtue.
ABRAHAM .DARMELL. 0,
Sealed and delivered iit the presence of
G«OR<5E NEEDY.
THOMAS TRUSTY.
A general Release.. ,
KNOW
all me'ri by these presents, that I Peter
Peaceable of Boston, in the county of Suffolk,
and Commonwealth of Massachusetts, tobacconist,
have remised,, released, and forever quit claim to
William Winter of Roxbury, in the county afore
said, fish-monger, his heirs, executors, and admi
nistrators, of all and all manner of action and
actions, suits, bills, bonds, writings, debts, dues,
duties, accounts, sums of money, leases, mortgag
es, judgments by confession or otherwise obtain
ed, executions, extents, quarrels, controversies,
trespasses, damages, and demands whatsoever,
which by law or
equky, or otherwise soever, I
the said Peter Peaceable, against the said WilUair.
Winter, ever had, and which I, my heirs, execu
tors or administrators, shall or may claim, chal
lenge, or demand, for or by reason, means or
colors, of any matter, cause, c* thing whatsoever,
to the day of the date of these presents'.
The Book of Knowledge. 137
In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my
hand and seal, this 5th day of April, &c.
PETER PEACEABLE. ©
An Indenture of Apprenticeship.
THIS
Indenture witnesseth, that Richard Rey
nolds, son of Robert Reynolds, late of Boston,
in the county of Suffolk, hath put himself, and by
these presents doth voluntarily put himself Ap
prentice to Charles Carpenter, .housewright, of said
town, to learn his art, trade, or mystery, and af
ter the manner of an apprentice to serve him from
the day of the date hereof,' for and during the
whole term of seven years next ensuing :
During
all which time, he the said apprentice his master
shall faithfully serve, his secrets keep, his lawful
commands every where gladly obey. He shall
do no
damage to his said master, nor see it be
done by others, without letting or
giving notice
thereof to his said master.—
He shall not waste
his said master's goods, nor lend them unlawfully
to others. He shall not commit fornication not
contract matrimony within the said term. At
cards, dice or any unlawful game, he shall not
play, whereby his said master may be damaged.
With his own
goods or the goods of others, du
ring the said term, without licence of his said
master, he shall neither buy nor sell.
He shall not absent himself day nor
night from
his said master's service without his leave ; nor
haunt ale-houses, taverns or play-hflfcses : but in
all things behave himself as a faithful apprentice
ought to do, during the said term. And the said
master shall use the utmost of his endeavors to
J. 3 8 The Book of Knowledge.
teach or cause to be taught and instruct the said
apprentice, in the trade and mystery he now pro-
'
fesseth, occupieth or followeth ; and procure and ,
! provide for him the said apprentice, sufficient meat,
drink, apparel, washing and lodging, fitting for
an
apprentice, during the said term. And for the
true performance of all and every the said cove
nants and agreements, either; of the said parties
1
bind themselves .unto the other by these presents.
In witness whereof, they have interchangeably put
their hands and seals,, ctais. sixteenth day of March,
in the year of our Lord, 1795. .
A Letter of Attorney. ■
KNOW
all men' by these presents, That I
Charles Careful, of Boston, in the county of
Suffolk, and Commonwealth of Massachusetts, apo
thecary (for divers considerations and good causes
me hereunto moving) have made, ordained, con
stituted and appointed, and by these presents do
make, ordain, constitute and appoint, my trusty
friend William Wagstaff of Milton, in the county
aforesaid, gentleman, wj true and lawful attorney
for me and in my name, and to my use, to ask,
demand, recover or receive, of and from A. B.
of Roxbury, in the said county, the sum of forty
>, pounds ; giving and by these presents granting to
my said attorney, my sole and full power and au-
*
thority, to take, pursue and follow such legal cour-
; ses, for the recovery, receiving and obtaining of
the same, a^^pnyself might or could do, were I
personally present ; and upon the receipt of die
.
same., acquittances and other sufficient discharg-
i
The Book of Knowledge. 139
es, for me, and in my name, to make, sign,
seal and. deliver ; as also, one or more attorney or
attorneys, under him to substitute or appoint, and
again, at his pleasure to revoke ; and further to do,
perform, and execute for me, and in my name, all
and singular thing or
things, which shall or may
be necessary, touching and concerning the premi
ses, as fully, thoroughly, and entirely, as I the
said Charles Careful, in.my own
person, ought or
could do in arid about the same ; ratifying, al-
lowing, and confirming, whatsoever my said at-^V
torney shall lawfully^ do; or; cause to be done, in
and about the execution -of the premises, by virtue
of these presents': In witness whereof I have here- ,,
unto set my hand and seal,'the sixth day of MarcV
in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hun-
. dred and ninety-five.
A Deed of Gift.
TO
all people to whom these presents shall
come, I George Generou,s do send greeting.
Know Ye, That I the said George Generous, of the
town of Worcester, in the county of Worcester, brick-
'■
maker, for and in consideration of the love, good
will, and affection which I have and do bear to-
*
wards my loving sister, Sarah Sorrowful, of the
-
same town and county, widow ; have given, and
granted, and by these presents do freely give and
grant unto the said Sarah Sorrowful, her heirs,
executors, or administrators, all and singular my
goods and chattels, now being in
represent
1
dwelline-house, in the town aforesaid, known by
-
.the nafle of Fisher's Figgary ; of which (before
i 40 The Book of Knowledge.
the signing of these presents) I have delivered her,
the said Sarah Sorrowful, an inventory, signed with
my hand, and bearing even date, to have and to
hold all the said goods and chattels in the said pre
mises or
dwelling-houses, to her the said Sarah
Sorrowful, her heirs, executors; or administrators
from henceforth, as her and their proper goods and
chattels, absolutely without/any. manner of condi
tion. In witness whereof, I- have hereunto put my
hand and seal, this■
(OJrday of March, 1795.
GEORGE. GENEROUS.
Signed, Sealed, and
'
dklivefect. • •
in the presence of .
:
Daniel Drayton'. '.
•
•
.
Aaron Atkins.
Note. This precedent may be extended to the
giving away of cattle, corn, house, or land if
not entailed, &c. but the particulars must be
named, &c.
Of Bids of Exchange.
BILLS
of Exchange are either inland or fo*
reign. The inland bills are drawn by one trad
er in one city or town, upon another of another ci
ty or town, in the same
kingdom; as London upon
Bristol, or Exeter upon London, &c. and these
chiefly concern our
shop-keepers and wholesale tra
ders, either of town or
country, and the foreign
more
immediately concern the merchants.
Bills oOSxchange, if handsomely drawn, must
be writteRft a fair hand, on a
long piece of paper,
about three inches broad, and writ in form after
the following precedent.
The Book of Knoxdedqe. . H-
A BILL PAYABLE AT SIGHT.
London, 5th. January, 1795.
AT sightjiereof, pay to Mr, Gregory Greedy,
o.-.his order, the sum of Fifty Pounds, for
value received of Christopher Cash j and place it
to account, as
per advice from
>
Your humble servant,
•
. DANIEL DRAWBILL.
To Mr. Peter Pane' *•■*]>: Grocer, .
in High-Stre, **•!.->•
Note. A Bill at table three days after
the acceptor. seeth *
The Wheel of Fortune, and what is meant by it.
HEN any desije to know a question, state
any number not
exceeding 30, to that let
the number of the day be added and the first letter
of your name, which perhaps may prove a figure
letter, and let the number be divided 'by three,
and if the division comes out even, then expect
a
good issue of what, you require, whether relat
ing to love, business or the like ; but if broken,
and odd, then the success will be bad, if not al
together unfortunate.
Several Queries resolving in Matters of L-i-ve and
Business, by throwing a Die, or priding at a
Figure, after the Form and Rules of the jul/ow-
ing Table.
HAT number you throw, or what number
or letter vou prick upon, they being cover-
w
w
142 The Book of Knowledge.
ed with a piece of paper, through which you must
prick, go to the same number and letter in the
following solutions, for a true answer.
The Fortune Table.
A.-m*f4.|5|e
rx=i ^i'^i h M e
j^j 'to wAtf* &W of a husband a Widow or Maid
shall have.
A
HANDSOME youth be sure you'll have,
Brown hair, high nose, he'll keep you brave.
%• A ma -
unto thy lot shall fall,
Straight but neither short nor tall.
3. An honest tradesman is thy lot,
When he proffers slight him not.
4. Fair, ruddy, bu3h-hair is thy love,
He'll keep thee well, and call thee still his dove,
5. A widower, tho' rich thou'It marry.
You for a husband won't
long tarry.
G. Proper and gay will be the man,
That will thee v ed, my pretty Nan.
Whether a Maid shall have him she loves .
BE
not too coy, he is your own,
But thro' delay he may be gotta
The Book of Knowledge.
'
i 143
2. He of your wishes does not know,
He'd soon comply if it were so.
3. Come set thy heart at rest I say,
He will but plunder and away.
4. Fear not, thy neighbor is the man,
And he will have thee if he can.
5. Show him more kindness he will speak,
His heart with silence else will, break.
6. Sigh thou no- more,, he iocs relent,
And his. incorst;ficj T^er^. t
,' .
How many Tiasbu uds -ifou . in
ay. expect, SCc.
COME,
in the town thon first sfialt wed,
A stranger next shall' grace thy bed.
2- With one well lov'J thy life shall be,
And happy days in marriage see.
3. The stars three husbands do presage,
And thou shalt die in good old age.
4>. Wed thou betimes, or else I fear,
Thou wilt notmuch for wedlock care.
5. Too much pride will make thee tarry,
Yet after all that, thou shalt marry.
6. Accept the ring thy love dpth give
For long in wedlock he'll not live.
Whether it be best to Marry or rat.
DON'T
fear, thy husband will be kind:
And it is one shall please thy mind.
2'. If he be of complexion fair,
For thee that man 1 do prepare.
3. Come never fear it will be well,
Or say I can no fortune tell.
144 7 he Book of Knowledge.
4. Pray lose no time, for if you do,
Age will come on, and you may rue.
5. If this match slip,- you may long stay,
Then take kind will without delay.
6\ Cupid commands thee now to do't,
Then pr'y-thee make no more dispute.*
